speaker1: oh my help me!! help me!! 
speaker1: somebody help me! please!!

speaker1: come on, come on. what was it? 
speaker1: no. where the is it? son of a...come on!
speaker1: help me! please! somebody help me!

speaker1: 911, please hold. the female 911 operator places paul on hold. 
speaker2: no! wait!
speaker1: 911. what is your emergency?
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: 911. what's the problem, sir?
speaker2: i'm buried. you have to help me. you have to help me, i can't breathe...

speaker1: i'm buried in a coffin. please help me! send someone to find me... 
speaker2: sir...slow down. what is your name?
speaker1: paul. paul conroy.
speaker2: okay, mister conroy. can you tell me your location?
speaker1: i don't know. i'm in a coffin. i don't know where. i'm scared.

speaker1: you're in a coffin? 
speaker2: yeah, it's, like, one of those old, wooden ones.
speaker1: are you at a funeral home?
speaker2: no. i don't know. no.
speaker1: how are calling me right now?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: if you're buried in a coffin, where are you calling from?
speaker2: a cell phone. there was an old cell phone in the coffin.
speaker1: you're calling from your cell phone?
speaker2: yes. no. it's not mine, but yes, i'm calling from a cell phone.
speaker1: there was a cell phone in the coffin when you climbed in?
speaker2: i didn't climb in.
speaker1: how did you end up in the coffin, sir?
speaker2: i was put here.
speaker1: in the coffin?
speaker2: yes. please send help.

speaker1: and you're saying the coffin is buried? 
speaker2: i think so. it's...it's hot in here. i can't breathe.
speaker1: do you know your location, sir?
speaker2: i told you, i don't know.
speaker1: iraq?
speaker2: yes. i'm a truck driver, an american. i work for crt.
speaker1: are you a soldier, sir?
speaker2: no. please, please listen to me. i'm a truck driver. i work for crt. i'm a civilian contractor working in iraq. we were attacked in baqubah, they...they...
speaker2: ...shot them. all of them.
speaker1: they shot who, sir?
speaker2: all of the other drivers.
speaker1: and you're saying this happened in iraq? the country?
speaker2: yes. please, you have to help me. they gave me a safety number to call, but i had it stored in my wallet and --
speaker1: mister conroy, this is 911 emergency in youngstown, ohio.

speaker1: ohio? 
speaker2: yes, sir. i'm not sure exactly how you called here if you're in another country, but if you'd like, i can patch you through to the sheriff's department.
speaker1: sheriff's department? no...you don't underst...
speaker1: ...forget it.
speaker1: come on, come on. pick up. please.
speaker3: thanks for calling the conroy's. we're not home right now. please leave a message at the beep. thanks.
speaker1: linda, honey, it's me. listen, i need you to contact the national guard right away. or the pentagon. tell them we were attacked in the diyala provence, in baqubah.

speaker1: they have to find me. please help me, baby. please help them find me. 
speaker2: hi, this is linda. please leave a message. thanks and have a great day.
speaker1: linda, it's paul. i need you to call me right away. this is an absolute emergency. call the number that comes up on your phone. call me at that number. if i don't answer, call the pentagon or the f.b.i. i don't know what the is going on, but i'm buried in a box...
speaker1: ...i can't breathe in here. make sure you call me right away. please, baby, please call me.

speaker1: what city and state, please? 
speaker2: um...i don't know. the f.b.i., wherever they are.
speaker1: do you have a specific city you'd like to be connected to, sir?
speaker2: i don't care, any city. just connect me to the f.b.i.
speaker1: sir, i have f.b.i. field offices listed in boston, new york, philadelphia, new haven, los angeles, chicago, denver --
speaker2: anywhere! any city, just connect me, please!
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir, but i'm not allowed to do that.
speaker2: fine, um...chicago. okay?
speaker1: please hold for your number. paul is transferred to an automated message.
speaker3: the number you requested, 312-421-

speaker1: ...can be connected for an additional charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. 
speaker2: chicago field office. special agent harris.
speaker3: hello? is this the f.b.i.?
speaker2: yes it is, sir.
speaker3: i'm calling from iraq. i'm buried in the desert somewhere. i need you to help me --
speaker2: whoa, whoa, sir. slow down. when were you in iraq?
speaker3: now. i'm there now. i'm a truck driver for crt. i've been here for nine months.
speaker2: may i have your name please, sir?
speaker3: paul conroy.
speaker2: saying it as he writes it
speaker4: paul conroy. okay, paul, explain to me what's going on.

speaker1: alright. me and a convoy of other drivers were delivering kitchen parts to a community center. as we got closer, a bunch of kids started throwing rocks at our trucks. then an ied went off up ahead and blew up one of the other trucks. these guys came out from behind the houses with guns and started shooting everybody right there on the street. 
speaker2: were you shot at?
speaker1: i don't know! i don't know. i was way in the back of the convoy. i must have got hit in the head with one of the rocks and got knocked out. that's the last thing i remember. but now i just woke up, and i was tied up and buried in a coffin.
speaker2: who put you there?
speaker1: i guess whoever ambushed us.
speaker2: a bunch of kids?
speaker1: no, you're not listening. the kids threw the rocks at us, but then some iraqi guys -- maybe insurgents, i don't know -- popped out of nowhere and started shooting at us.
speaker2: i thought you said they didn't shoot at you.

speaker1: they didn't, i don't know! but they shot them! 
speaker2: sir, you're going to have to stop shouting if --
speaker1: i'm shouting because you're not listening! i need you to help me!
speaker2: hmmm...
speaker1: can you trace my call? gps or something?
speaker2: why is it that they didn't shoot you?
speaker1: i have no idea. they didn't, that's all i know.
speaker2: what's your social security number, paul?
speaker1: why? who cares? i'm buried in the middle of the desert! who cares what my social security number is?! i'm an american citizen. just send someone to find me!
speaker2: do you know where you're ...lo...if...dy..
speaker1: hello? what? i can't hear you.
speaker2: bet...un...near...

speaker1: hello?! hello?! 
speaker1: 
speaker2: thank you for calling crestin, roland and thomas. how may i direct your call?
speaker1: somebody, i need to talk to someone right away. it's an emergency.
speaker2: who is this, please?
speaker1: paul conroy. i'm a driver for you guys. i'm calling from iraq. my convoy was attacked.
speaker2: sir, if this is a crisis situation you need to contact the safety number your were provided.

speaker1: i know, i know, but i don't have it. they took it. 
speaker2: who took it, sir?
speaker1: the iraqis, i think. i don't remember, i blacked out.
speaker2: i'm going to put you through to alan davenport.
speaker1: davenport? who's that?
speaker2: director of personnel. please hold.
speaker1: personnel? no, i need to talk --
speaker3: at crt, we work with our clients to provide effective and sustainable solutions to the challenges they face in our fast-growing, global economy. as the premiere...
speaker4: you've reached alan davenport, personnel director at crestin, roland and thomas. please leave your name and number at the tone and i will return your call as soon as possible.

speaker1: hello? hello? is anyone there? hello? 
speaker1: hello? who are you? please, you have to help me.
speaker1: who is this? hello?
speaker2: breathe no breathe, american? ah?
speaker1: what? i don't know what you're saying. who is this?
speaker2: american can breathe no breathe?
speaker1: no, i can't breathe. please get me out of here.
speaker2: get out?
speaker1: yes, please get me out. help me.
speaker2: soldier.

speaker1: no, no i'm not a soldier. i'm a truck driver. that's it. i'm not a soldier. i'm a contractor. 
speaker2: contractor?
speaker1: yes, that's right. a contractor.
speaker2: blackwater.
speaker1: no, not for blackwater. i'm not a security contractor. truck driver, i'm a truck driver. that's all.
speaker2: you are american.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: then you are soldier.
speaker1: no, i'm not. i'm here unarmed.
speaker2: in head and in throat, so you tell no more lies.
speaker1: i'm not lying! we were all drivers.
speaker2: drive what?
speaker1: trucks. the big trucks you see driving around with the supplies? that's us. that's me. we're not soldiers.

speaker1: five million money. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: five million money tonight by nine pm or you stay. buried like dog.
speaker2: five million dollars? from who?
speaker1: your family.
speaker2: my family doesn't have five million dollars. if they did, i wouldn't be here.
speaker1: from embassy.
speaker2: i don't know, yes, the embassy will pay you. if you let me go, they'll pay you the money.
speaker1: nine pm, five million money.

speaker1: come on, what's her number? 
speaker2: what city and listing, please?
speaker1: hastings, michigan. i'm looking for donna mitchell.

speaker1: i have two donna mitchells, sir. one on federal road and one on ardmore avenue. 
speaker2: ardmore avenue...i think. yeah. i don't know. just give me that one.
speaker1: ardmore avenue?
speaker2: yes, ardmore avenue.
speaker1: please hold for your number.
speaker3: the number you requested, 269-948- 1998 can automatically be dialed for a charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one.
speaker2: come on! where the is everyone?
speaker4: hello?
speaker2: donna, it's paul.
speaker4: hey, how's it going?

speaker1: where's linda? she's not answering her phone. i need to talk to her, i've been taken hostage by... 
speaker2: fooled you. i'm not really home. but if you leave a message, i'll get back to you as soon as i get in. bye-bye.
speaker1: donna, i need to talk to linda. it's an absolute emergency. have her call me. use star sixty-nine and find out the number i'm calling from and have her call me...
speaker2: paul?
speaker1: donna.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i need to talk to linda. where is she?
speaker2: i don't know. i haven't talked to her all day. call her cell phone.
speaker1: are you near a computer or something?
speaker2: uh...yeah. why?
speaker1: turn it on.

speaker1: it is on. 
speaker2: look up the number for the state department for me.
speaker1: i was just heading out to the supermarket. i really don't have

speaker1: donna, please, please, please -- just get me the number. 
speaker2: is everything alright?
speaker1: no! everything is not alright! so, please, just look up the number.
speaker2: don't yell at me, paul.
speaker1: i'm not yelling!
speaker2: yes you are. just like you did last year at the cookout. i'm not going to tolerate --
speaker1: just get me the number!! get me the number, get me the number!!
speaker3: he lies there, motionless.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: donna, i'm very sorry i yelled. but, i'm only going to ask you once more to get me this number. if you don't get me this number, i'm going to die.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't have time to explain.
speaker2: hold on.
speaker2: okay...state department. it's 202-

speaker1: what the hell's going -- 
speaker2: united states department of state.
speaker3: i'm an american citizen, working in iraq. i've been taken hostage. i need to speak to someone right away.
speaker2: where are you calling from, sir?
speaker3: from iraq. i'm a truck driver for crt -- crestin, roland and thomas. we were attacked and now i'm being held for ransom.
speaker2: are the kidnappers with you?
speaker3: no. i'm buried somewhere.
speaker2: you're buried?
speaker3: yeah, in a coffin, a wooden box.
speaker2: did you try contacting the military out there?
speaker3: i don't have the number.
speaker2: what number?
speaker3: i was given a number to call, a safety number. but the people took it.

speaker1: the people holding you hostage? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i don't know...hold on. let me connect you...hold on.
speaker2: no. wait...
speaker3: rebecca browning.
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: yes, hello. i was just informed of your situation.
speaker2: yeah, my situation. i'm running out of time and you people keep putting me on hold. what the is wrong with you?
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker2: don't be sorry. just help me.
speaker3: i just have a few questions for you, mister conroy.
speaker2: you've got to be kidding me.
speaker3: it's important that i get this information. it will make a rescue

speaker1: wait, wait, wait...how did you know my name? 
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: i never gave you my name. i don't think i gave it to the other guy, either.
speaker1: what the is going on right now?
speaker2: we received a call from a representative at crt. you left him a message?
speaker1: yeah...?
speaker2: he contacted us right away.
speaker1: well, since you know what the is going on, what have you done to get me out of here?
speaker2: there's little we can do from washington.
speaker1: so, that's it? i'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then what?
speaker2: i need to know where you were when your convoy was ambushed.

speaker1: in the diyala provence. in baqubah. 
speaker2: okay. and has contact been made with the kidnappers?
speaker1: yes. the guy told me that he wants five million dollars by nine o'clock tonight.
speaker2: or else...?
speaker1: or else he'll bring me to sea world. what do you think, lady?
speaker2: we'll do everything we can.
speaker1: so you'll pay them?
speaker2: no. that we can't do.
speaker1: wait...what?
speaker2: it's the policy of the united states government to not negotiate with terrorists.
speaker1: to with that! it's easy for you to worry about policy, you're sitting in an air conditioned office somewhere, probably finishing up your sandwich from lunch. you're not the one stuck in a coffin, buried in the desert!
speaker2: i understand your frustration --

speaker1: frustration? lady, i'm going to die in here. understand that! 
speaker1: hello?
speaker2: i'm here.
speaker1: well, then say something. tell me how you're going to get me out of here.
speaker2: what's the number on the phone you're calling from?
speaker1: i don't know. did it come up on your end?
speaker2: no. it's listed as unavailable. do this -- take down this number.
speaker1: go ahead.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: dan brenner. he's the commander of the hostage working group over in iraq.

speaker1: hostage working group? 
speaker2: we formed it in 2004 to deal with situations such as yours.
speaker1: situations. i love how you keep calling it that.
speaker2: did you write down the number?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: good. hold on, i'll connect you with him now. he should be expecting you.
speaker1: what about the news? i'm going to call them.
speaker2: no. do not, i repeat, do not contact the news.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: it will only complicate things further and threaten your chances of rescue.
speaker1: that's you're just covering your ass.
speaker2: no, i'm covering yours. everyone who needs to know about this does.

speaker1: you don't go looking for something if you don't know it's missing. 
speaker2: that's why you need to contact dan brenner right away.
speaker1: fine.
speaker2: i'm transferring you now.
speaker3: brenner.
speaker1: dan brenner?
speaker3: is this paul conroy?
speaker1: yes, yes it's me. it's paul.
speaker3: paul, i was informed of what's going on. i want you to know that we're already working on trying to get you out of there.

speaker1: oh, thank you, 
speaker2: i was told that we have until 9pm.
speaker1: that's what he said.
speaker2: alright. that doesn't give us a whole lot of time. and just so i have this right, the kidnappers buried you in the ground?
speaker1: yeah, in an old, wooden coffin.
speaker2: okay. my guess is that since you're able to get a cell signal, you're no more than a few feet underground.
speaker1: i don't know. maybe.
speaker2: what about battery life? how much does the phone have left?
speaker1: less than half.
speaker2: okay. you have to conserve that battery. our best bet of finding you is by tracking your cell signal. is the ringer set on a sound or vibrate?
speaker1: vibrate.
speaker2: press and hold down the asterisk key to change it to a ring tone.

speaker1: what about my zippo? 
speaker2: you have a lighter?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: use it to look around for markings, a logo -- whatever you can find.
speaker1: won't it use up oxygen?
speaker2: not much. don't worry about that now. try to find --
speaker1: it's really dark in here without it.
speaker2: i understand, paul. try to find anything in there that might indicate where that coffin was made.
speaker1: you guys have to hurry.
speaker2: we're working as fast as we can, paul.
speaker1: do you know if there were any other survivors?
speaker2: from your convoy?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: that's still unclear at this point.
speaker1: i just wanted to do right by my family. that's all.

speaker1: i didn't know it was going to be like this over here. 
speaker2: i don't think any of us did.
speaker1: it's him. he's calling.
speaker2: the kidnapper?
speaker1: yeah. what do i do?
speaker2: you know his number?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: give it to me.
speaker1: what about the call?
speaker2: give me the number first.
speaker1: he's going to hang up.
speaker2: take the call.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: two hour, six minute.
speaker1: you have to give me more time.
speaker2: you talk to embassy? they give money?
speaker1: yes. no. i talked to...someone. government. they said that they won't pay the money.
speaker2: no pay?
speaker1: no. they said that they don't negotiate with terrorists.
speaker2: terrorists? i am terrorist?
speaker1: yes. you are terrorist, you son of a
speaker2: you are terrified, so i am terrorist?
speaker1: what did i ever do to you?
speaker2: ever do?
speaker1: yeah. i'm here because it's a job, to make money. that's it.
speaker2: i have job until you come. now, my family have nothing.

speaker1: that's not my fault! 
speaker2: nine, one, one was not my fault, but still you are here! saddam was not my fault, but still you are here!
speaker1: i told you, i'm only here to work.
speaker2: rebuild what you destroyed.
speaker1: stop! just please, stop! i'm just a guy. i'm just a truck driver. okay? i'm nobody that makes decisions about anything. i just want to go home.
speaker2: you make video, ransom video.
speaker1: yes. please. get me out of here and i'll make the video.
speaker2: no. you make video now.
speaker1: what...? how?
speaker2: you use video on phone.

speaker1: near foot. you read note near foot in box. 
speaker2: where? i don't see --
speaker1: near foot. read note inside box.
speaker2: the video...if i make it, will you let me go?
speaker1: only if we get money.
speaker2: nobody's going to pay five million dollars for me.
speaker1: we take less. one million money.
speaker2: if they pay it, will you let me go?
speaker1: one million money.

speaker1:  
speaker2: paul?
speaker1: here's his number...
speaker2: hold on. alright, go ahead.
speaker1: it's 07902-24-921.
speaker2: this is huge. unless they're using a cloned line, we should be able to find where this is coming from in minutes.
speaker1: what about me? can you track my cell signal?
speaker2: we're having a lot of trouble with yours. seems to be an eds line, probably through one of the egyptian carriers.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: that...it's not going to be easy.
speaker1: he wants me to make a ransom video.

speaker1: no. hold off for as long as you can. 
speaker2: if it's going to get me out of here, i'm making it.
speaker1: the last thing we want is for this to end up all over al jazeera.
speaker2: we?
speaker1: this can't turn into an international incident.
speaker2: that's all you people care about! but what about me? don't you care about me?
speaker1: we do. that's why we're --
speaker2: no you don't! you people don't care about any of us. i've had eight friends killed out here, six of them today. we don't have any guns, any armor. nothing.
speaker1: you're not soldiers.
speaker2: tell that to the people who put me in this box! tell that to the people who shot my friends!
speaker1: we're doing the best we can.
speaker2: no, you're not. all you people understand are your secret plans and your back room politics.

speaker1: if i were some diplomat or something, maybe even a hostage working group leader -- or whatever your fancy title is, i'd be out of here by now. wouldn't i? but i'm not, so i'm just supposed to keep my mouth shut and die. 
speaker2: i need you to stay focused, paul.
speaker1: you.
speaker2: paul, listen to me: finding you is our primary concern. bottom line. and we're searching just as hard as we would be for a four-star general, so don't literally waste your breath suggesting otherwise.
speaker1: who are they? the people who put me here?
speaker2: they're just that -- people. no different from you and me.
speaker1: i'm no terrorist.
speaker2: neither are they.
speaker1: how do you know that?
speaker2: if you were homeless, starving...actually, i take that back. if your family was homeless and starving, what would you do for them?
speaker1: i wouldn't kill someone.

speaker1: how can you be sure? 
speaker2: what difference does it make?
speaker1: they're criminals, desperate ones at that. they don't care about anything other than getting the money.
speaker2: so pay them, then.
speaker1: trust me, if it was an option, i would do that in a heartbeat.
speaker2: how many others have there been?
speaker1: since i got here? hundreds. journalists, contractors, soldiers...hundreds have been taken. it's one of the only functioning businesses out here.
speaker2: how many have you rescued?
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: not many.
speaker2: tell me their names.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: any of them. make me know they really do matter to you.
speaker1: mark white.

speaker1: who was mark white? 
speaker2: a kid from new hampshire. twenty- six years old. med student. came over here to help out local doctors.
speaker1: what happened to him?
speaker2: insurgents grabbed him.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: about three weeks ago.
speaker1: you remember his name.
speaker2: i remember all their names.
speaker1: did he...? is he...?
speaker2: yeah. yeah, paul, he's alive.
speaker1: where is he?
speaker2: home. probably happy to be back at school.
speaker1: i want to get out of here.

speaker1: we found him; we'll find you, too. 
speaker2: how?
speaker1: we already have a solid lead on the number you gave us.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: a unit's on it's way over there now.
speaker2: that's...that's good.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: what should i do in the meantime?
speaker1: i know it's hard, but try to relax. the more worked up you are, the more air you're going to use.
speaker2: i can't help it. i'm always anxious. i take pills for it.
speaker1: do you have them with you?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: take them. you need to preserve your oxygen level any way you can.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: is your zippo still lit. 
speaker2: not now.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: i feel nauseous.
speaker1: you have to calm down.
speaker2: i'm trying.
speaker1: and you need to save that battery. we're expecting some intel in about ten minutes. call me back then.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: just hang in there, paul.
speaker2: yeah. i'm trying.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: did you make video?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you make video!
speaker1: let me out and i'll make it.
speaker2: no! you make video now. in box.
speaker1: i can't. i can't read the paper.
speaker2: make video now!
speaker1: i can't. i don't know what you want me to say. i can't read the paper.
speaker2: you make video now.

speaker1: i'm never getting out of here. 
speaker2: mountain view nursing home.
speaker1: i was hoping i could speak with maryanne conroy, please.
speaker2: um...okay. ah...let me bring the cordless phone to her room. hold on a moment, please.

speaker1: misses conroy, you have a telephone call, dear. here, you can use this phone. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: mom...it's paul.
speaker2: who?
speaker3: it's paul, mom. your son.
speaker2: my son?
speaker3: it's okay, mom. how are you?
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker3: that's good.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: it's your son, mom. it's paulie.
speaker2: paulie?
speaker3: yeah. remember? we lived over on colfax street, in the duplex.
speaker2: paulie?
speaker3: that's right, mom.

speaker1: is this paulie? 
speaker2: it is, mom. it's paulie. how's everything at the home?
speaker1: very nice. your father and i have been playing gin rummy every night.
speaker2: yeah...i don't think pop's there with you, mom.
speaker1: how are you doing, sweetie?
speaker2: not very good. this...uh, this may be the last time i talk to you.
speaker1: that's nice, honey.
speaker2: did you get the flowers i sent a few months ago?
speaker1: flowers?
speaker2: yeah, i sent...never mind. listen, i...i'm going to go now. i just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. i love you, mom.
speaker2: did you hear me? mom? i told you...do you want to tell me you

speaker1: oh no. no, no, no! 
speaker2: video make?
speaker1: let her go. please. please don't hurt her.
speaker2: we shoot her if you no make video.
speaker1: no! no, please no shoot. no shoot her.
speaker2: you get money. american million.

speaker1: i will, i promise. just don't shoot her. she's a mother, she's got two kids. 
speaker2: two kids?
speaker1: yes. she has two kids.
speaker2: i have five. now only one. you make video. now!!
speaker1: wait...
speaker2: no wait!! i give three seconds.
speaker1: i can't read the paper.
speaker2: three...
speaker1: no. wait!
speaker2: two...
speaker1: i don't know what you want me to say!
speaker2: one.
speaker1: okay! okay, i'll make the video. just, please, don't shoot.
speaker1: i need to hang up to make the video. okay? is that okay?
speaker2: you have three minute to send video.
speaker3: jabir hangs up, ending the call.
speaker1: 
speaker1: my name is paul conroy. i'm an american citizen from hastings, michigan. i'm a civilian truck driver for crestin, roland and thomas. i've been taken hostage somewhere in iraq...and i need one million dollars by nine o'clock tonight, baghdad time, or else i'll be left to die in this coffin i'm buried in. i've been told that if...
speaker1: ...the money is paid, i will be let go. if it's not, i will die in here. these threats are real and will be followed through on.

speaker1: there you are. 
speaker2: hi, this is linda. please leave a message. thanks and have a great day.
speaker1: linda, here's the number for the phone. i just found it out. it's 07902-42-884. you have to use the international calling code first.

speaker1: please call me as soon as you get this. i love you...i love you. call me right away. please. 
speaker1: oh
speaker1: son of a...

speaker1: my name is pamela gorham. i'm a food service worker at f.o.b. anaconda, employed by crestin, roland and thomas. my captors' requests for ransom have gone unanswered, and -- 
speaker2: no! no, no, no!!!

speaker1: why the did you make that video? 
speaker2: it's all a bunch of lies.

speaker1: what is? what are you talking about? 
speaker2: all of it.
speaker1: all of what?
speaker2: nobody gives a about any of us. we're nothing to you people.
speaker1: we're going to find you.
speaker2: by looking the other way?
speaker1: you can't start breaking on me now, paul. you have to stay strong.
speaker2: you let her die.
speaker1: no i didn't.
speaker2: they shot her...and you didn't do anything.
speaker1: we didn't even know she had been taken hostage.
speaker2: she sent three videos.
speaker1: that's what they told her to say.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: what do you know?

speaker1: that your ransom video already has 47,000 hits on youtube. and all the major networks are playing it, including al jazeera. so, now your captors have no choice but to follow through. 
speaker2: i found out the number to this phone.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: i found a way to change the display language. i figured that out, and you didn't. why?
speaker1: because i didn't. just like you and every other person on this planet, there are some things i know and some things i don't.
speaker2: then how are you ever going to find me?
speaker1: their signal was cloned, like we figured. but, we're close. real close.
speaker2: what about mine?
speaker1: we're working on that, too.
speaker2: i'm near a mosque. i could hear the call to prayer over the p.a.
speaker1: good. that means that we're in the right area.
speaker2: you're nearby?

speaker1: i spoke with soldiers from the third id who were escorting your convoy. 
speaker2: they're alive?
speaker1: not all of them. both bradley tanks were hit with ieds. the rest got caught in small arms fire.
speaker1: what the happened out there, paul?
speaker1: paul.
speaker2: we had just left anaconda, everything seemed okay. we knew that a bunch of our cb radios had been stolen and that the iraqis were listening in, so we made sure to switch from our usual channels. pam was riding with jeff breer, the convoy commander. she wanted to ride with me like she usually did when she hitched a ride from base, but it seemed safer for her to be with the c.c. as we headed down the road, all these kids came running into the street. dozens of them. it almost seemed like they were expecting us, except we got there faster than they thought we would. so they run on up in front of me, and i slam on my brakes. the rest of the drivers were already further up ahead, so they kept going. next thing i know, one of the lead trucks got hit by an ied. i hear tommy wilkes on the radio saying, sandman's hit, sandman's hit. he's...he's everywhere.

speaker1: that's when the iraqis came out of their mud huts from the side of the road and started shooting everybody. i couldn't believe what was happening. it seemed like slow- motion, like i was watching it on tv. people -- my friends -- were getting killed, and all i could do is watch. i didn't even notice that the kids were throwing bricks and rocks at me until one split my windshield. sort of snapped me out of my trance. but then, i guess i got hit in the head with a rock, `cause i blacked out. 
speaker2: do you happen to remem...mo... nea...

speaker1: oh no...no... 
speaker1: this can't be happening.
speaker1: no. come on. please work.

speaker1: hello? hello? who's there? 
speaker2: is this paul conroy?
speaker1: yes. yes, this is paul. who are you?
speaker2: paul, my name's alan davenport, i'm the personnel director here at crestin, roland and thomas.
speaker1: i left you a message.
speaker2: you did. i also heard from rebecca browning over at the state department. are you able to speak on the status of your situation?
speaker1: it's worse. there was an explosion or something. the coffin's breaking, there's sand pouring in from everywhere. i only have a half an hour before --
speaker2: okay, okay. slow down. you should try to stay calm. tell me something, paul, who have you spoken to?
speaker1: the hostage takers, dan brenner from the hostage working group --
speaker2: okay, paul. i'm with you. how about the media. i know your ransom video leaked, but have you spoken directly to anyone about what's going on?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: that's good. it needs to stay that way. it's important that we keep this situation as contained as possible.
speaker1: about three inches to my right, there's a wall. three inches to my left, there's another wall. and about four inches above my head, there's a roof that's about to collapse and drown me in sand. i think this situation is pretty contained.
speaker2: i know you're upset --
speaker1: help me! help me! what are you going to do to help me?!
speaker2: i know you're upset. and, from what i've been told, steps are being taken to get you out of there. so, hopefully it won't be much longer.
speaker1: thank
speaker2: yes, thank
speaker2: i'm going to switch on a recorder right now. just a second... paul's visage expresses his confusion.

speaker1: this is alan davenport, personnel director for crestin, roland and thomas, incorporated. the date is october 23, 2006. i am speaking with paul conroy. mister conroy, are you aware that i'm recording this conversation? 
speaker2: what...?
speaker1: please answer the question.
speaker2: 
speaker1: mister conroy?
speaker2: yes. yes!
speaker1: and do i have your permission to do so?
speaker2: why do you need my permission?
speaker1: i need you to answer yes or no, please.
speaker2: yes. alright? yes!
speaker1: thank you. now, mister conroy, when were you hired by crt?
speaker2: about nine months ago. around january of 2005. why are you wasting time with this?

speaker1: i have your official date of hire as january 4th, 2005. is that correct? 
speaker2: who cares? this is crazy --
speaker1: january 4th, 2005. is that correct?
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: and during your initial training, before being sent to iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were hired.
speaker2: you mean when i came down there to dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass?
speaker2: you mean when you told us that things were safer than ever over here? is that when i was made aware?
speaker1: i need you to answer yes or no, please.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: during that time, did you also receive and sign an employment contract with crt, which thoroughly explained company policy as it pertained to your specific terms of employment?

speaker1: yeah, i signed a bunch of things. 
speaker2: yes or no.
speaker1: yes. i signed the contract. yes!
speaker2: it's our understanding that you were taken hostage in iraq two hours ago, is that also correct?
speaker1: yes. that's completely correct. what is the point of all this?
speaker2: our legal department requires that we obtain a sworn affidavit from employees, confirming that they understand the reasons for their forced separation from the company. as of this morning, your employment with crt was officially terminated.
speaker1: wait, wait, wait -- the flashlight dims even more.
speaker2: it was brought to our attention that you were engaging in relations with a fellow crt employee -- pamela gorham.
speaker1: no. wait --
speaker2: stipulated in your contract was a fraternization clause, in which it was stated quite clearly that any relationship, be it romantic or sexual in nature, deemed inappropriate by crt senior officials is grounds for immediate termination.

speaker1: we...we were just friends. 
speaker2: our records indicate differently.
speaker1: this is
speaker2: we're also legally required to inform you that because you were technically no longer under the employ of crt at the time of your abduction, we cannot be held accountable for any injury that may befall upon you after your official date and time of termination. therefore, in your case, that includes this incident or any consequences that may result from it.
speaker1: what about my insurance money? my family will need that money...
speaker2: given that you were alive up until the time of your termination --
speaker1: you son of a you can't do this.
speaker2: do you understand everything --
speaker1: you can't do this!
speaker2: do you understand everything you've been told, mister conroy?
speaker2: mister conroy?
speaker3: after a long beat:
speaker1: go to hell.
speaker2: that concludes our interview with paul conroy. i am now turning off the recorder.
speaker1: you people can't just wash your hands of this. you put me here.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: come on...
speaker1: answer the phone!!

speaker1: why won't you answer?!! 
speaker2: paul, is that you?
speaker1: they're dead.
speaker2: how do you know that?
speaker1: i just do.
speaker2: three f-16s levelled parts of the city a few minutes ago.
speaker1: i know. i felt it. did they know i was here?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: did they care? 
speaker1: these people that took me -- if they're dead, they can't tell you where i am.
speaker2: we can still try to track down your signal.
speaker1: you tried that already.
speaker2: we can try again.
speaker1: it's over, isn't it?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what should i do?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: that's right -- just like everyone else on the planet, there are some things you know and some things you don't.

speaker1: i wish this could have gone differently. 
speaker2: yeah...me too.
speaker2: this is paul steven conroy. social security number 048-32-1198, date of birth 3/19/68. this video will serve as my last will and testament. to my wife, linda conroy, i leave the seven hundred dollars in my personal savings and whatever i have left in my annuity. to my son, shane conroy, i...i don't know. i don't have anything else. my stuff, like, my clothes. i wish i had more...i wish i had done more. your dad wasn't really much of anything, shane, i'm sorry. maybe if i was a famous baseball player, or a guy who wore a suit to work, i would have more to leave you. but, you can be one of those people if you want. you can be whatever you want. just promise me that when you get older, you'll take good care of your mom. and promise me that you'll always try to do the right thing, no matter what. i love you very much, shane. maybe i never said that enough...maybe i did, i don't even know. that probably means i didn't.
speaker2: i'm sorry, linda. i should have listened to you.

speaker1: you're not dead. 
speaker1: hello? hello?!
speaker2: where is money?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: what don't know?
speaker1: i don't know where the money is.
speaker2: liar!
speaker1: i'm not lying! i swear.
speaker2: swear?
speaker1: i'm telling the truth.

speaker1: from embassy, you get money now! 
speaker2: i can't!
speaker1: you will!!
speaker2: i need more time. please.
speaker1: no more time!
speaker2: there's sand pouring in here. i can't...it's everywhere. please, let me out of here and i will get you the money.
speaker1: you show blood.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you show blood, they give money.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you cut off thumb finger, send video.
speaker1: i'm not doing that.
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: that's right, no. you let me out of here, and i'll cut off my whole hand if you want.
speaker2: you have wife?
speaker1: yes, i do. and a son. a young son. i want to go home...to see them. please, sir.
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: yes. sir. i say that out of respect...to you.

speaker1: 243 east walnut street. hastings, michigan. u.s.a. 
speaker2: that's my...why did you say that?
speaker1: you show blood...or they show blood.
speaker2: that's...you're lying. you're nobody...all of you. you can't get to them.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: no. you're peasants, criminals, that's all. you don't even know where michigan is.
speaker1: detroit. ann arbor.
speaker2: you looked at a map. that's all you did.
speaker1: you show blood, or they show blood. send video by five minutes.
speaker3: hi, this is linda. please leave a message. thanks and have a great day.
speaker2: linda, listen to me: you and shane have to go somewhere... anywhere.

speaker1: don't stay at the house, whatever you do, do not stay at the house. the guy...the kidnapper, he knows our address. he stole my license and now he knows where we live. go to the sheriff's station if you have to, just don't go home. 
speaker1: holy
speaker2: this is daniel brenner. please leave a message at the tone.
speaker1: brenner, where are you?! he's alive! he just called me! call me right away! the guy is still alive! paul hangs up the phone.
speaker1: they can't find them. they...can't. there's no way.

speaker1: oh my oh my 
speaker1: holy

speaker1: he's down here! 
speaker2: get him out! keep digging!
speaker3: paul, we're here!

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: paul, it's brenner.
speaker2: paul? are you there? paul?
speaker1: i'm...here.
speaker2: we're coming for you now. you hear me? we know where you are.
speaker1: you're coming?
speaker2: we are, paul. we're almost there now.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker2: coalition forces picked up a shiite insurgent just outside of baghdad.

speaker1: said he knew where an american was buried alive. he agreed to show us where if we let him go. 
speaker2: you're coming for me?
speaker1: we're practically there already.
speaker2: you have to hurry.
speaker1: we are.
speaker2: no...you have to hurry. the sand...it's filling up fast.
speaker1: just hang in there for three more minutes. this will all be over soon, i promise.
speaker2: okay. i believe you. thank you. thank you.
speaker1: three minutes. try to --
speaker2: i have to go!
speaker1: paul, no --
speaker2: call me right back.
speaker1: paul!

speaker1: call me right back. 
speaker1: linda.
speaker2: paul? paul is that you? tell me it's you.
speaker1: it's me, sweetie.
speaker2: oh my paul! what are they doing to you? please tell me you're okay.
speaker1: i'm...okay.
speaker2: i just saw the news. what...oh my baby.
speaker1: it's going to be okay now.
speaker2: i missed all your calls. i left my cell phone at home. i just found out what was going on.
speaker1: that's okay. it's all okay.
speaker2: who?

speaker1: the people. americans. they found out where i am and they're on their way to get me. 
speaker2: they are? oh thank oh dear thank you.
speaker1: it's all going to be okay.
speaker2: how do you know for sure? oh please tell me you're okay.
speaker1: i'm okay.
speaker2: i was so afraid i was going to lose you.
speaker1: you're not.
speaker2: i love you so much. i love you so, so much.
speaker1: i love you, too.
speaker2: it doesn't matter.
speaker1: i should have never come here. you were right. i'm sorry.

speaker1: sweetie, i don't care. i just want you home. please come home to me. 
speaker2: i will.
speaker1: swear it.
speaker2: i will. i swear i will.
speaker2: they're here!
speaker1: the people?
speaker2: they're calling me right now. i have to go.
speaker1: call me right away.
speaker2: i will. i love you.
speaker1: i love you. swear it again.
speaker2: i swear. i have to go.
speaker3: move! move! let's go.
speaker2: brenner?
speaker3: paul? paul?

speaker1: it's me. 
speaker2: we're here!
speaker2: corporal, get your men over here!
speaker2: he brought us right to you.
speaker1: you have to hurry. it's almost full.
speaker2: just hang in there!
speaker1: hurry! please!
speaker2: dig! dig! dig!
speaker1: i can't...are you close?
speaker2: we're almost there, paul. we're almost there!

speaker1: faster! 
speaker1: we're almost there. we're right above you.
speaker2: i can't hear you! where are you?
speaker1: we're almost there.
speaker3: there it is!
speaker1: keep digging!!
speaker2: hurry! please!!!
speaker1: we see the coffin! just hang in there!!
speaker2: hurry! where are you? i don't hear you? please hurry!!!
speaker3: it's clear!
speaker1: open it!
speaker1: oh my

speaker1: what is it?! 
speaker2: i'm so sorry, paul.
speaker1: what?!!
speaker2: it's mark white. he brought us to mark white. i'm --
speaker1: you said...!
speaker2: ...i know. i'm sorry.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'm so sorry.
speaker1: no!! no!! no!!!

