speaker1: how many times are you gonna miss the bus? huh? all the other kids can get up in the morning, but you guys wanna be driven around like the president. i'm your chauffeur! 
speaker2: man. it wasn't our fault! -- you think sis is so perfect, well, if she hadn't hogged the bathroom, maybe we -- i thought aunt lu was dead! she was in there so long...
speaker1: shut up! listen!
speaker3: they're gonna win the series in four!
speaker1: all the way with strawberry!
speaker2: strawberry!
speaker1: man -- there's your bus i oughtta make you late! make the nuns whack the outa ya both.

speaker1: two black kids came up out of nowhere and shot those chicks. then they laughed as they walked away. the press is gonna call it the "giggling man murders." i'll tell ya. what a world. 
speaker1: but hey -- we make the best of it, man, don't we? huh? how about them mets!

speaker1: no way they're gonna do it in four games straight. 
speaker2: you serious, man? i wanna go mets all the way!
speaker1: go ahead, man.if you've got for brains. but if you wanna win the bucks, go with oakland.
speaker3: i thought strawberry was gonna --
speaker1: i know that like he's my brother. he ain't gonna let us off so easy. he'll make us sweat first. this game's going to oakland. not a doubt in my mind, man. silence. the cops think about it for a moment.
speaker4: i'm in. here.

speaker1: all right. what are you gonna do? 
speaker2: i want 15 on the mets.
speaker1: how about 7 1/2?
speaker2: hey, man. don't give me that don't pussy-out on me. the mets are a lock. i wanna make some money.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: yeah. i'm sure.
speaker3: police! police! help me! police!

speaker1: hey, man, gimme something cooked! 
speaker1: it's good from when they busted those columbians uptown. you can cut it in half.
speaker1: i got this guy. but there's someone across the street on the roof! the cops rush out of the building.
speaker2: that stuff'll kill you quick, man.
speaker1: what the are you? a drug counselor or a drug dealer? and you don't even do your own product! what kind of businessman are you?
speaker2: the rich kind. jeez, man. the way you smoke that is suicide.
speaker1: you.
speaker2: see you in a coupla days. have the cash ready.

speaker1: got something good for us? 
speaker1: i'm gonna need some bread, man. this ain't fair. i'm always here for you, and you can't even take decent care of me. my landlord is like a you're two months behind on the rent, lieutenant!
speaker2: didya ever think of moving to a cheaper apartment? $3,500 a month is crazy, man!
speaker1: it's nothing. this is new york, man... oh -- i forgot. bowtay needs some cash to buy her new acting headshots out of the developers. it's a good investment, man. she could make serious money!
speaker1: we've been rehearsing a new monologue. from shad's saint joan, you know? bowtay does it wonderfully well.
speaker2: all right, bowtay. show us your stuff.

speaker1: there's nothing! 
speaker1: go out and get some diet cokes.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: uh, lieutenant, sir -- the owner says they stole cash from the register. he was chasing them down the block when i caught up with them.
speaker3: we didn't do nothing, man !
speaker1: shut the up!
speaker1: go get me a bud. a high boy. and make sure it's cold. i'll straighten this out. the uniformed cop looks at lt for a moment, then goes.
speaker4: lt turns to the owner.
speaker1: how much did they take?
speaker5: five hundred dollars cash.
speaker3: we didn't --
speaker1: gimme the money! now!
speaker3: we told you, man. we didn't take no --
speaker1: give me the money, assholes!
speaker1: what the are ya standing there for? be gone! the kids, stunned, split.

speaker1: i got you a present. better then you got, cop! 
speaker2: brown downtown... there hasn't been any smoking brown on the street in --
speaker1: who said anything about the street. i've got more connects than you have, lieutenant...

speaker1: did i win? the game! 
speaker1: what's the score? what's the score?
speaker2: i dunno...
speaker1: why me, man?
speaker1: shut the up! did you see that?
speaker3: it's 7-0: oakland. that could have let it drop and gone home.

speaker1: confidentially - to 
speaker2: willie got shot by one of his boys. but there's a ki under the back seat.
speaker3: i'll put it in my trunk.
speaker4: lt is silent wrath incarnate.
speaker3: i guess he was a bigtime dealer... what d'ya know... a kilo of 'caine... among the gathered cops, only a sergeant is not quite convinced.
speaker5: where the did that come from? the other cops ignore the query. lt walks away.
speaker6: but i still can't believe they'd a nun, man...
speaker3: what's this about a nun getting raped?
speaker7: where the have you been? it happened this morning, up at st. dominiek's in spanish harlem. a coupla punks tore up the place and then gave it to the nuns but good.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: they raped a nun and tore up the church -- they even took a on the altar. up in spanish harlem.
speaker3: she was only seventeen...
speaker2: who the could do this?!
speaker4: the young nun's just a kid from ireland. imagine having to come here to have that happen!
speaker3: jesus... what's she gonna tell her mother?
speaker4: i'm gonna kill those motherfuckers.
speaker5: the church already put up a $50,000 reward!
speaker2: well, one of us is gonna get it. i mean -- get them.
speaker2: here's to payback for the nuns!
speaker3: anyone got any leads, at all?
speaker2: we got to go on. only that list of inventory -- what they stole from the church.
speaker5: y'know they actually stole those wacky purple robes? and they took the chalice -- with the host still inside!
speaker3: what did they want with the host?
speaker5: they were hungry. i dunno. they didn't want to hock the host, they wanted to hock that golden chalice.
speaker1: leave it to the catholic church, man. girls get raped everyday, and now they're gonna pay 50 g just because these chicks wore penguin suits!
speaker4: what's your problem?!
speaker1: the church is a racket.
speaker4: so what. are you a catholic?
speaker1: sure!
speaker4: do you believe in god? lt doesn't reply. he's thinking.
speaker1: more than you did.
speaker6: well, let's see some green!
speaker1: if you know what's good for you, you'll keep staying on oakland!
speaker7: oakland? is that how you're going?
speaker1: yeah. sure. don't you get it? the series has gotta last seven games. the last two did, didn't they? it's a racket. do you have any idea how much money they make selling television-time for commercials during the series? especially if it's a new york team? they won't close the gold mine after only four games. it'll last a full seven. too many people wanna milk it for what it's worth. you'll see!
speaker7: all right... i'm in. after all, you're the expert. ain't that right, lt?
speaker1: you'll be sorry, man. but if you wanna be a sissy, here's your bread.
speaker8: strawberry? i thought we were going with oakland.
speaker1: we are, man! that's the point! if the mets win, it's thanks to strawberry. if oakland wins, it's thanks to strawberry. nothing can happen out there on the field that don't gotta do with strawberry. so here's to strawberry! the others join in the toast, but are uneasy.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: i'm in charge of the investigation. just checking security.
speaker1: security?
speaker2: do you want those guys coming back? for the nun? or for you?
speaker3: lt continues his hunt.

speaker1: have you ever seen a naked nun? i tell you, man, i went to school with the nuns, i've seen hundreds since then and i've never even seen a nun's belly button, you understand? but this nun, let me tell you. what a beautiful lady... and where'd the church get the 50 g in the first place? the church is the biggest scam going. you know what's the real killer? it costs $8,000 per kid for them to go to parochial school. i've got three kids in there already, with two on the way! christ. that reward is my money, man! but that's church policy. the pope is the world's biggest bookie. makes people bet on their own salvation! double or nothing on heaven. you go to -- then go to hell. in the beginning was the word, and the word was 
speaker2: i can't get over what those guys did to her. i just can't.
speaker1: they're alive, aren't they? come on, man! everyone's making such a fuss, just because she's a nun. just because she wears a penguin suit, the church puts up 50 g for the guys who dared to her. do you think they'd put up a dime if you got raped? of course not. or even for your little sister? the virgin? like they would.
speaker2: susie's not a virgin anymore.
speaker1: she's nine years old! christ.
speaker2: and the nun's not a virgin anymore, either. will they make her leave the convent?
speaker1: who knows? who knows what their policy is. but i'll tell you, man, that nun... she was beautiful. just beautiful... tall... real tall... i've never seen anything like it...
speaker2: it's horrible. they burned her with cigarettes. christ.
speaker1: yeah? at least she's alive! i see people get killed every day! worse yet, tortured first and then killed! the nuns got off easy. jeez. cigarette burns. everyone's all upset about cigarette burns. i'll show you cigarette burns!

speaker1: do you believe in god? do you believe that christ is the son of god?. lt hesitates. 
speaker2: yeah, i know, i know all about it. enough already about the nuns. yeah. yeah. so just take the bet. don't give me any hassles, man. just put in my bet. 30 g's. yeah. and i got $900 from the cops on oakland. yeah. right. strawberry's gonna knock em dead. of course he is! you know that! yeah. yeah. have faith, man! ok. right.
speaker1: do you believe in god?
speaker2: the church is a racket. i know how they operate. i've been part of the racket since the first time some priest spilt water on my head. my aunt lu says i was crying all the way through. yeah, i know their game inside out. now i'm free of it and i'm gonna stay that way.
speaker1: i'm not talking about the church. the church. but tell me. do you believe in god?
speaker2: what's to believe?
speaker1: that christ was the son of and he came to die for your sins.
speaker1: your sins, lieutenant! and look around you! where do you think all this came from?
speaker2: people.
speaker1: you believe that man is the be-all and end-all?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: ok. ok. fine. but -- do you believe in god?
speaker2: i believe in the father almighty, creator of heaven and earth...

speaker1: you wouldn't put some religious trip on me, would you? 
speaker2: uh-uh... what?
speaker1: good. show me your papers.
speaker1: who's this person? it ain't you, and it ain't you, so who is it?
speaker3: my aunt.
speaker1: so you took the car from you aunt. stole it. am i right?
speaker3: we were gonna give it back! we're on our way home, now!
speaker1: yeah, yeah.
speaker1: now why don't i just call up your aunt right now and tell her what's gone down. how about that? the girls are petrified.
speaker1: well, i'm sure we could arrange something... unless you fancy a few days in jail...

speaker1: can't you tell us anything? sisters? anything at all? 
speaker2: they broke my glasses. i didn't see anything, but i did hear them. they were young. and there were two of them. they spoke spanish. one of them was named julio.
speaker3: julio. great. there are 20,000 spics named "julio".
speaker2: i would tell you more if i could. i am so sorry, officers.
speaker4: what about you, sister? won't you tell us anything? lt watches the young nun as --
speaker5: listen. one nun is nearly 80 years old. i'm not from this church, of course, but i assume they'll be getting her a new pair of glasses. apparently she's legally blind without them. the sister who suffered a is just 17. she arrived from ireland only a couple of months ago. this -- event -- is just too much for them to take!
speaker5: listen. the church would like to know who did it just as much as the nypd. these arrant criminals broke the laws of man, and the laws of the church wants nothing more than to see them behind bars. that's why we're offering the $50,000 reward to whomever brings them in. i'm sure our hero will be one of new york's finest. the young nun shoots the monsignor an offended look.

speaker1: ok you owe thirty grand. now what are you gonna do? 
speaker2: i wanna go double or nothing on the next game.
speaker1: double or nothing? are you out of your mind?
speaker2: i'm not gonna let that take my money
speaker1: take your money? this guy will blow up your house and everyone in it!
speaker2: there's just no way the mets will lose this game. gooden is pitching and strawberry is ready to break out.
speaker1: strawberry. you're gonna end up owing 60 g to a homicidal maniac!
speaker2: that's my problem. just put in my bet.

speaker1: forgive me father, for i have sinned. it has been two days since my last confession. father, my sin is a terrible sin. a sin of omission. there was another sin that happened at the same time, and in the same place, but my sin i think was graver stil. 
speaker2: sister, we all know what happened to you yesterday morning. i expected that you would want to speak to me about it. but you could have come to my office. your being here, in the confessional, implies that you, sister, have done something wrong. you haven't. i assure you. i feared you might have misplaced feelings of guilt. if you condemn yourself because you experienced feelings of... curiosity or even... pleasure, you mustn't --
speaker1: father, if it was so trivial, so natural, so -- no. i have sinned. and you must listen if you are to prescribe an appropriate act of contrition, and to absolve me. father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your arms to serve god?
speaker2: it's funny, you knew. but the first thing i think of is kneading the bread that i help bake for the soup kitchen. maybe that's because my the muscles in my arms still hurt.
speaker1: i also thought of that bread, father. and of that night six days ago when the mother superior died, and i kept the cool, damp cloth on her forehead freshly moist. father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your legs to serve god?
speaker2: i think of running for help, and falling to my knees in prayer.
speaker1: as i have prayed day and night since the desecration of this church yesterday morning -- and my sin. you see, father --
speaker2: yes, sister?
speaker1: yesterday morning, gave me but one chance to use something else to serve him. not my arms or my legs, but something i used for the first time, for the last time, and will never use again. my vagina.
speaker1: those boys, those sad, raging boys... they came to me as the needy do. and like many of the needy, they were rude. like all the needy, they took. and like all the needy, they needed. father. i knew them; they learn in our school. and play in our schoolyard. and they are good boys.
speaker2: you knew them?
speaker1: i could tell you their names now, and i know you'd be bound by a sacred vow to keep my secret. but i cannot tell you their names. for i, too, am bound. as i am bound now to confess my sins. so listen, father listen. i am a nun. what did i give those boys that they could not have found elsewhere? nothing. nothing at all. there were always two of us in the act. the act was half my own. it does not seem to me the act was half the act of a once of christ. it is the lost chance that will remain on the ledger of my sins. not the loss of my virginity. the forced upon me a choice. as a vessel of the spirit. i could have imbued my with or, i could have turned away from and voided my body of spirit, so that all that was left for those boys was a lump of flesh. i chose the second path. the easier, path. the path of the material world. the path no nun has the right to take. and so, i sinned. my spread, but spread no word. it opened, on nothingness. it gave nothing at all and left nothing behind. no trace of my act, yes my act. for i was there, too, remains in the landscape of the nun's description of the is both a turn on for lt and a matter of profound curiosity. something divine. his
speaker1: turned water to wine. i ought to have turned bitter to fertile sperm -- hatred to love. and maybe to have saved their souls. they did not love me. i ought to have loved them. as loved those who reviled him. i ought to have surprised those boys. instead, they surprised me, and got no surprise at all. no, they did not a nun. but a nun has been raped. and the nun must now atone for her sin. for a god-given part of her was wasted. a part which other women use for procreation, for conjugal fulfillment, for expressions of love. i had but one chance. and i did nothing but react in pain. when those boys placed their hands upon my breasts, they had nothing but an assortment of skin cells in their grasp. they ought to have felt, through me. the bosom of their redeemer. when they lay on top of me and looked down into my eyes, they saw fear. they should have met the eyes of a lover, and felt the presence of the prince of peace... my vagina. i shall never have again. and never again shall i encounter two boys whose prayer was more legible, more poignant, more anguished. two young men who threw themselves upon the altar and took me with them. and i did nothing for them. i can only hope that someone will.

speaker1: do you have the money? 
speaker2: what money?
speaker1: don't me.
speaker2: i don't got it. not tonight. you can't get blood from a stone.
speaker1: this psycho can.
speaker2: oooo... big scary guy. just put $120,000 on tomorrow's game.
speaker1: you're a joke, you know that? he's been waiting for the money since the game ended. and i've been waiting here since -- forget it. listen up. you're gonna get us both killed. you know that!
speaker2: uh-uh. i'm gonna win. just make sure the bet gets in.
speaker1: you do know that he's gonna blow up your house, kill your wife and kids --
speaker2: good. i'll give him an extra 10 grand for his trouble. i hate that house and --
speaker1: he's gonna kill you, man. do you hear me, you. dead. get it?
speaker2: i've been dodging bullets since i was fourteen. no one can kill me. i'm blessed. i'm catholic.
speaker1: how's the case going?
speaker2: what case?
speaker1: the rapists, man. the punks who raped that nun. the $50,000 reward from the church! remember?
speaker2: yeah. sure. yeah. we're on it bigtime. lots of leads. you bet.
speaker1: that 50 g could help you --
speaker2: the mets are gonna win the series. they're a lock.
speaker2: get this, man. i was at the game today. face to face with strawberry! i saw him strikeout. and you know what? he looked at me, and i looked at him, and he laughed and i laughed and it was like we were all alone in that whole stadium and only we understood that it was all a racket, that he struck out on purpose, and that he's saving it up for the big one. tomorrow. today i understood for the very first time that --
speaker1: you've really got a problem.
speaker2: -- that there was never any other way it could have gone. never any other way. so you had better just put in my bet. $120,000 on the last game. the big one. come on! are you a bookmaker, or what?
speaker1: here. look i'll give you the psyho's number you call him yourself and tell him wnat you want.
speaker1: you couldn't pay 60. you lose, you'll be in for 180. to a guy who kills people for nothing.
speaker1: i was supposed to meet him at midnight with the 60. it's already 1:00 am. be careful. i mean it.
speaker3: lite lowers his head and exits.

speaker1: how are you doing, man? 
speaker2: very good. very good. the mets are gonna win tomorrow.
speaker1: i know. here. just a moment.
speaker1: this should be it. oh, wait. mamacita?
speaker1: there. now you've got your profit and more. you'll have more product day after tomorrow, right?
speaker2: uh - right. sure. the mets are gonna win tomorrow.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: someone just took a shot at me... 
speaker2: sure, baby sure and you don't do cocaine, either.
speaker1: it's not the drugs, ariane, it's -- it's someone who wants to kill me. you gotta believe me!
speaker2: why?
speaker1: just kick back, baby. make yourself at home. but of course it won't be nobody's home, if you don't come through with the rent!
speaker1: hello? is large there?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: look, man. lite gave ne this number. ok? just take a message. tell large to call me right away at 123- 1234. got it?
speaker3: sure, i get it...
speaker1: i'm a good friend of lite's, man. it's urgent that -- the mob voice hangs up on lt.
speaker4: the line is busy.
speaker1: christ! i could kill them all with my bare hands.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: those mob assholes.
speaker2: c'mere. you got some good blow, right?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: then c'mere. i got something for you.
speaker2: first i'll put your uptown in the spoon, then, to make it more exciting, i'm gonna add some downtown. they call this thing a speedball, honey, but then you must know that... first time shooting up?
speaker1: nah...
speaker2: sure it is. you're a virgin. just like that nun. and i'm gonna you.
speaker1: large?
speaker5: all right, cop. i want my money.
speaker1: it's still my money. if you want to have a chance at any part of it, shithead, you will take my $120,000 and bet on tomorrow's game.
speaker5: what about the money you owe me on yesterday's game?
speaker1: yesterday's game. the world series is seven games not six. put in my bet.
speaker5: let me think about it.
speaker1: there's nothing to think about. either you put in my bet or you ain't getting nothing.
speaker5: oh, really?
speaker1: yeah, really. i'm no asshole, man. i'm a cop!
speaker5: ok, cop. i want you to give yourself and your friends on the force a message. tell them i've got my own reasons to be very interested in whomever did the job on the nuns. i'll double the church reward if you bring those punks direct to me. 100 g cash. get it?
speaker1: the nuns, man! i'm talking about strawberry! is the bet down?
speaker5: here's the deal: you meet me tonight across from the garden. 33rd and 8th. at the beginning of the ninth inning. we'll listen to the end of the game together. you bring your cash, i'll bring mine.
speaker1: yeah, you better be there!
speaker1: can you believe the nerve of this guy? he kills people for fun, and then, he puts up 100 g to bring in some guys who raped a nun. what a sick man...
speaker2: who?
speaker1: a wiseguy. paying 100 grand for the rapists if i turn then over direct to him.
speaker2: but you could do it, baby. we could use the bread...
speaker1: you mean you could use it. ariane shrugs, waves his dig aside.
speaker1: i got it, man! i will find those kids. and i'll get the 50 g from the church! then the kids'll go to jail. i'll be in charge, of course. after a little while, i'll break the out -- and i'll turn them in to i was just talking to. and pick up his 100 g. no. i'll hit him up for 200 g. or 250 g. l can do it -- 'cause i've got the kids. then, of course, there's the 180 g i'm gonna pick up on the game tonight -- when the strawberries win!
speaker2: "the strawberries"?
speaker1: the mets. so anyway, chalk up another 180 g for the game. christ! that's almost half a million dollars. ariane! wait. that's not good enough, i'll ask the for 280 g for the kids. then it'll be a perfect 500 thousand. yeah. perfect. 280 g for the kids. yeah, it's good i prepared, or i wouldn't have thought to --
speaker2: how come all those guys who're looking to get 50 from the church haven't come up with you got some kinda inside track?
speaker1: i'm a catholic.

speaker1: listen to me, sister, listen to me good. the other cops'll just put the guys through the system. they're juveniles. they'll walk! get it? but i'll beat the system and do justice. real justice. for you. 
speaker2: i have already forgiven them.
speaker1: come on lady! they put out cigarettes on your tits, man! get with the program! don't you want them behind bars? or away from the world for good? how could you forgive these motherfu -- excuse me. these guys. how could you? deep down, don't you want them to pay for what they did to you? don't you want the crime avenged?
speaker2: i have forgiven them.
speaker1: nun! these boys still have their weapons, sister. your forgiveness will leave blood in its wake. what if they do it to other nuns? other virgins? old women who die from the shock? do you have the rights let these boys go free? can you bear the burden. sister?
speaker2: i have prayed for days, lieutenant. i have prayed for the souls of the boys who raped me. and i have prayed for my own soul, too. i know what i must do. and i know what i must not do. but you -- you -- it is you who needs to pray. now, why do you want to kill these boys? why -- really?
speaker1: look. sister. no one has to get killed. we can solve this together. you and me -- as one. these boys are lost sheep. both catholic -- did you know that? and they're sick, sister. with a stress of the mind and of the soul. they need help. not just jail. not just psychiatry. they need the help that only the church can give. please help me to help them. help me find them before the others do. the night is full of evil men, chasing these boys with guns and clubs. we have charity and love on our side. i know that together, we could find them first, even in the dark...
speaker2: the good reasons are not always the real reasons. talk to lieutenant. pray. you do you believe in -- don't you? that christ died for your sins?
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: me?
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: you can't forgive me. after what i've done. i've up bigtime. i've been bad. real bad.
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: please. please don't forgive me. i've always hated you for that.
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: why? why can't you hate me? hate me! please! help me! hate me! help me! hate me!
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: why? why me? why can't i wash the ashes from my forehead, year after year after year? and why am i still drunk on your blood, the taste of your flesh on my tongue? worst of all, why can't i feel the nails in my palms, the spear in my side, the crown of thorns round my head? why do i have to know, over and over, that it was you. you who died; died for my sins! and that i will die for nothing. why?
speaker3: i forgive you.
speaker1: why do i dream every night of the who brought you water on your road to death? and why have i never forgotten that if she, then i -- lt averts his eyes. when he looks up again -- is back on the cross. inert, and yet --
speaker1: oh my it's good to be good. forgive me. father, for i have sinned. it's still good to be good.
speaker3: i forgive you.

speaker1: the chalice. tell me! who gave it to you! tell me where the you got it! take me there! now! 
speaker2: i can't tell you.
speaker1: in the name of you must.
speaker2: my husband will give me hell, mister.
speaker1: we've already got hell, sister.
speaker2: it's very hard. he's a -- you're not a cop, are you?
speaker1: no. not a cop.
speaker2: my husband is a fence. he got this chalice from a couple of kids. just yesterday, i think. i stole it out of his shop so as to return it to where it ought to be. it's a holy thing, you know. a holy thing.
speaker1: a holy thing. let's go.

speaker1: you took the chalice. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you brought it back to the church. and then it made it's way back to me, again.
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: are you all right, honey?
speaker1: i was gonna bring it back myself.
speaker1: woman! what did you think? you thought i'd get mad like i did that time you took that set of pots and pans? that was twenty years ago. and how do you compare pots and pans and a chalice?
speaker3: they both hold stuff you eat.
speaker1: so what are you doing here?
speaker2: he wants to know who brought in the chalice.
speaker1: that's no mystery. julio and paolo brought it in, you don't want to hurt those boys, do you? i mean, they sure as have got something coming, but it ain't what the law wants to give them. you understand? no. how could you understand. the fence seems to study lt. pov fence - lt. wretched.
speaker1: well -- maybe you do. but i don't know where those boys are at right now. you'll have to ask around. those boys on the corner'll know. you'll have to get it out of them. but they know.
speaker3: thank you. and i'll make sure the chalice gets back where it belongs.

speaker1: hey -- have you seen paolo or julio around? 
speaker2: what the you want.
speaker1: you know, my uncle used to wear a walkman all the time. the walkman looked just like yours. and you look something like my uncle. but one day he was standing in a puddle -- the puddle locked just like that one --
speaker2: and what?
speaker1: and he got electrocuted.
speaker1: look -- i don't know you, and you don't know me, but i'm really in the mood to kill someone today and you are at the end of my gun. have you ever had days like that? yeah, you have, so now you understand where i'm coming from. tell me! where is julio and paolo ?
speaker2: they were at that abandoned building last night. second floor. they're probably still there now. it's next to the old convent. downtown a ways. you know the place...

speaker1: who the fu-- 
speaker2: shut up. let's watch the game.
speaker2: strawberry...
speaker3: yeah...
speaker2: give me the robes.
speaker1: you're not a cop are you?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: died for your sins, you motherfuckers! not me. no. i didn't die for your sins. no, not me. went and did it. so why did you do what you did? if you want to live, tell me now, motherfuckers! tell me now! 
speaker1: i forgive you.

speaker1: get out. the kids do. lt follows fast. 
speaker1: if you think you're not getting on this bus, you're dead wrong. no way are you gonna miss this bus, man! you were probably the kind of kids who had your father drive you to school cause you couldn't catch the bus. but no more, man. you're getting on this bus and you're taking it to the last stop. so get on the bus, man, 'cause you're life ain't worth in this town.

