speaker1: over a dark screen we see the caption: 
speaker2: "returning to england are britain's acting royalty sir laurence olivier and lady olivier, better known as stunning gone with the wind star vivien leigh. sir laurence has added a new string to his bow with the announcement that he is to direct and star in a screen version of terence rattigan's stage play the sleeping prince with none other than hollywood siren marilyn monroe. when the world's greatest actor romances the most famous woman alive, we can be sure that sparks will fly. now, now lady olivier, don't worry - any romance is strictly for the camera!"

speaker1: ... and this is one of carracci's earlier works and one is able to see the emergence of his now famous baroque style, which is clearly rooted in the tradition of high renaissance and antiquity... 
speaker1: colin! come in. have you met james and anna? two very brilliant pupils.
speaker2: i'm leaving for london now, pa.
speaker1: ah, yes. well, bon chance, dear boy...
speaker1: i can always get you a research position at the vanda when you've grown up a bit and got this film idea out of your system...
speaker3: kenneth, you might have told cook we were another two for dinner. what is everyone supposed to eat? cabbage soup? oh, colin, darling, there you are...

speaker1: i'm off now, mama. 
speaker2: off?
speaker1: my job interview, remember..?

speaker1: can't you stay for dinner? there's nothing to eat but i'm sure the conversation will be charming. 
speaker2: i don't want to be late in the morning.
speaker1: i'm sure they won't mind. you'll be a famous film director in no time.
speaker2: i wish he hadn't done that. i can manage on my own.
speaker1: i have to watch jenkins like a hawk. one more of his murderous prunings and we'll lose the tea roses for ever.

speaker1: now go and have a lovely time, darling. we're always here when you're ready to talk your future. 
speaker1: mullins! be an angel - find cook and ask her how many pork chops we need for tonight. then bring the car round. i must get to the village before the shop shuts...

speaker1: you're not in mr. perceval's diary. 
speaker2: larry told me to come.
speaker3: yes?
speaker1: i have a mr. colin clark here. he says sir laurence sent him.
speaker3: oh, not another one of vivien's pretty boys.

speaker1: well, what do you want? 
speaker2: a job on your marilyn monroe film.

speaker1: oh really, what as? 
speaker2: i want to work on the production side.
speaker1: there are no jobs yet. we don't start shooting for eight weeks.
speaker2: may i wait?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: until there's a job.
speaker1: for eight weeks?
speaker2: something might come up.
speaker1: terry? larry wondered how the script was coming...

speaker1: there are no jobs. 
speaker2: i'll come back tomorrow morning.
speaker1: it's a free country.

speaker1: are you going to sit there all day? 
speaker2: if i have to.
speaker1: you're very determined.
speaker2: i'd do anything to be in the film business.
speaker1: anything?

speaker1: you can answer the telephone while i'm at lunch, if you like. 
speaker2: laurence olivier productions...

speaker1: vanessa asked me to... 
speaker2: oh, did she? why didn't you put that call through?
speaker1: there didn't seem any need to bother you. but if you want me to transfer every single one...
speaker2: use your judgement.
speaker2: i need a number for noel coward. it won't be in the book, so you'll have to track him down.

speaker1: hello, mama. 
speaker2: colin, darling! how are you getting on?

speaker1: this is urgent. i need noel coward's london number. my life depends on it. 
speaker2: how exciting. let me see... it's sloane 2965. ask him if he's coming to saltwood for the bank holiday.
speaker1: i will. mama, you're an angel.

speaker1: that was quick. 
speaker2: i had a bit of luck.
speaker1: am i supposed to be impressed? did mummy and daddy help? don't think they can do the job for you. the only way you'll get on in this business is through hard work.
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: do you know, hughie, it is simply impossible to get marilyn monroe on the telephone? the darling girl spends the entire day asleep. but great beauty has its way... 
speaker1: hello, boy... remind me?
speaker2: you remember colin, darling. you met him at the clarks' party.
speaker1: of course. what are you doing here?
speaker3: you said there might be a job on your film.
speaker1: have a cigarette. keep the pack.

speaker1: there won't be any film unless miss monroe gets her splendid posterior out of bed. 
speaker2: the house committee are threatening to withhold miller's passport. they say he's a communist. no arthur, no marilyn.
speaker1: i'll have a word with the american ambassador. i'm taking him to see vivien in south sea bubble on thursday... now, tell me, hughie, are terry's rewrites in?
speaker3: they named them after larry. the first actor since du maurier to have his own brand and they pay him an absolute fortune. i'm afraid they're rather ghastly.
speaker3: isn't he gorgeous, vanessa?
speaker4: i suppose he's all right.

speaker1: let's elope together and have the most glorious affair. oh, but then, who'd look after my poor larry? 
speaker1: now, darling, you must do something for colin. you absolutely promised.
speaker2: let's try to find him something to do, hughie.
speaker1: you will take care of my precious larrykins, won't you?

speaker1: larry says he particularly likes this dress. she looks radiant. 
speaker2: exactly - we need to tone her down a bit.
speaker1: how the do you tone down marilyn monroe?!
speaker1: marilyn monroe's publicist is flying in tomorrow. he wants to see the house she'll be staying in. find something suitable.
speaker1: and leave the tea.

speaker1: out of the question. i can't have a lot of awful film people tramping through the house in dirty boots. 
speaker2: we'd pay a hundred pounds per week for 18 weeks.
speaker1: my wife would never agree.
speaker2: that's a pity. i'll have to tell miss monroe to look elsewhere, then.
speaker1: marilyn monroe?
speaker2: she's making a film with sir laurence olivier. the sleeping prince. from the play by terence rattigan.
speaker1: i saw it in the west end a couple of years ago. vivien leigh was marvellous.
speaker2: it's marilyn monroe in the film.

speaker1: good morning, mr. jacobs. i hope you had a pleasant flight. 
speaker2: where's the car?

speaker1: jacobs slouches out of the house, magnificently 
speaker2: what is this place? a brothel?

speaker1: it's one of the best houses in the area. 
speaker2: and i thought you brits had taste.
speaker3: he glances at colin.
speaker2: is this the best you can do?
speaker4: it's very near pinewood.
speaker2: all right. we'll take it. but ditch the wallpaper. it's given me a migraine.

speaker1: news travels fast. 
speaker2: that house was perfect for marilyn.
speaker3: we can't use it now.
speaker4: yes we can. i knew cotes-preedy wouldn't be able to keep this quiet.
speaker4: when you asked me to find a house for miss monroe i took the precaution of finding two. the other one, parkside, is much better and the owner is very discreet.
speaker3: but now we have two expensive houses when we only wanted one.
speaker4: i thought someone else on the production might want it.
speaker3: oh, did you?

speaker1: i guess milton could use it. it's near the studio, near marilyn. 
speaker2: what are we paying you, boy?
speaker3: nothing...
speaker2: see to it, hughie!

speaker1: marilyn hates red. and blue. 
speaker2: what about white?
speaker1: i'd have to clear it with her.

speaker1: beige, then. beige is rarely controversial. 
speaker2: i guess that's okay. she's never said nothing about beige. paula will need the room next door.
speaker3: paula?
speaker2: strasberg. marilyn's acting coach.
speaker2: she's nuts about the method.
speaker1: stanislavski and the method are perfectly fine in the rehearsal room but they don't belong on a film set. time is too tight. i'm sure marilyn understands.
speaker2: who the is this commie stan slavski?

speaker1: i don't know why hugh perceval sent you here. there's nothing i can do for you. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: are you in the union?
speaker2: no...

speaker1: then you can't have a job on the film. 
speaker2: how do i get in the union?
speaker1: by getting a job on the film.
speaker2: but you just said i couldn't have a job on the film unless i was in the union.
speaker1: exactly. it's called a closed shop.
speaker1: i suppose i might be able to sort something out. the union owes me a few favours. we haven't got a third yet.
speaker2: a third?
speaker1: third assistant director. you do know what the job is?
speaker2: assisting the director?
speaker1: christ, no! that's the last thing you do. lesson one. the third's job is to do whatever the i tell him.
speaker1: what are you waiting for?

speaker1: colin! 
speaker1: lesson two. you don't on your own doorstep. got it?

speaker1: got it. 
speaker2: orton and colin hurry through pinewood.
speaker3: where are you staying?
speaker1: my father's place in the albany.
speaker3: you can forget that. lesson three. the third always stays nearby, not in some palace in london. book a room at the dog and duck down the road. it's a bit rough but you'll get used to it.
speaker3: now make yourself useful. marilyn needs a bodyguard. sort something out.

speaker1: i'm sure you understand the sensitive nature of the job, superintendant? 
speaker2: no need for the title. i'm retired from the force. something about looking after a cinema actress?
speaker1: not just any actress. marilyn monroe.
speaker2: i've never had much time for the pictures.

speaker1: excellent. for the next four months you never leave her side, day or night. there will be crowds. 
speaker2: that doesn't bother me.
speaker1: her behaviour is reputedly a little... erratic.
speaker2: she drinks?
speaker1: amongst other things.
speaker2: pills?
speaker1: it would be useful if you could keep us informed of her...
speaker2: you want me to spy on her?
speaker1: just the odd early warning if you know she's going to be late on set. that kind of thing.

speaker1: of course he is. all those pain in the new york intellectuals are reds. 
speaker2: it means marilyn will be flying in next week on schedule.
speaker1: she'll have to be met.
speaker3: naturally, vivien and i will be there to greet her. but let's keep it low key, shall we?
speaker1: don't worry. i've got it all under control.

speaker1: it is a deep happiness to me to be translating terence rattigan's magnificent play to the screen... 
speaker2: the plane's landed!
speaker3: it seems we're not top of the bill anymore, darling.

speaker1: there she is! marilyn! 
speaker1: marilyn! over here, marilyn!
speaker2: marilyn, this way..!
speaker3: beautiful. you're looking at tomorrow's front page, boys.
speaker4: we have to get them to the hall.

speaker1: a great actress on her first trip to london whom i have no doubt... 
speaker2: how do you like being married, marilyn?
speaker3: i like it a lot.
speaker2: is this third time lucky?
speaker3: you bet it is. arthur's the greatest man i ever met.
speaker2: marilyn, are you planning to see the sights?
speaker3: i'd love to see the little fellow with the bow and arrow in piccadilly circus.
speaker4: is it true you want to be a classical actor now?
speaker3: i want to be the best actress i can be.
speaker4: there's a rumour you're going to be in the brothers karamazov on broadway.
speaker3: i'm considering it.
speaker5: which of them will you be playing?
speaker3: i'll be playing grushenka.

speaker1: can you spell that? 
speaker2: sure. can you? there is laughter at the reporter's expense.
speaker3: so would you say you're an intellectual now?
speaker2: my husband is.
speaker4: what's your definition of an intellectual, marilyn?
speaker2: i guess you could look it up in a dictionary.
speaker3: vivien, you created the part of elsie marina on stage. do you have any advice for marilyn?
speaker5: i am sure if miss monroe needs any advice she'll get it from her director. i hear he's terribly good.
speaker6: in the sleeping prince we have discovered the perfect vehicle for miss monroe's luminous and justly celebrated talent...
speaker7: marilyn, is it true you wear nothing in bed except chanel no

speaker1: are all your press conferences like that, darling? 
speaker2: well, that was quieter than some.
speaker3: okay, let's get a snap of the newlyweds. smile, arthur. it's not a firing squad.
speaker4: this is some place you found.
speaker5: you have my new assistant colin to thank for that. this is milton greene. you must be very nice to him. he owns half of marilyn monroe productions.
speaker4: forty nine per cent, larry.

speaker1: have a cigarette. 
speaker2: i don't smoke.

speaker1: milton - marilyn and rehearsals. 
speaker2: sure. and the studio wants a new title. olivier escorts milton away.
speaker3: the boys at the gate are getting restless.
speaker4: let's give them two minutes and then we're done.

speaker1: marvellous, isn't she? i suppose you're quite smitten. 
speaker2: she's all right. a bit common.
speaker1: larry fell desperately in love with her in new york. he's determined to seduce her.
speaker2: but she's only been married three weeks.
speaker1: oh, colin, i thought you were a man of the world.
speaker3: vivien of course, larry would never leave me. but, if anything were to happen, you would let me know, wouldn't you?
speaker2: i'm sure he loves you very much.
speaker1: oh, don't be such a boy!
speaker1: at least you still adore me, don't you?
speaker2: of course. everyone does.
speaker1: i'm 43, darling. no one will love me for much longer. not even you.

speaker1: colin clark. i booked a room. 
speaker2: what brings you up this way?

speaker1: i'm here working on a film. 
speaker2: what film's that?
speaker1: it's called `the sleeping prince'.
speaker3: sounds lousy.
speaker2: ignore, andy - not a film fan - are you, andy?
speaker3: can't be bothered.
speaker1: marilyn monroe's in it. i'll be working with her.
speaker2: oh, will you now?
speaker3: the queen and prince philip popped in for a pint earlier. pity, you just missed them.
speaker2: the room's three quid a week, first week in advance. you're in number two.
speaker2: you'll be sharing with grace kelly.

speaker1: what a wonderful adventure, dame sybil. 
speaker2: such a lark! i long to see her.

speaker1: miss monroe? 
speaker1: sir laurence sends his compliments. he's ready for the

speaker1: but marilyn is not ready. she's preparing. 
speaker2: excuse the horrible face.

speaker1: marilyn, here you are, everyone is so excited to meet you... 
speaker1: let us begin. do sit down, please...
speaker2: how lovely you are. here, i kept a place for you.
speaker3: i have to be next to marilyn!
speaker2: don't worry, dear, we won't bite.
speaker3: she likes me by her side.
speaker2: what a good idea! i wish we could all bring a friend. one does get so terribly nervous. it's just like the first day at school, isn't it?

speaker1: welcome dear marilyn, to our little fraternity. we may seem a little strange and quaint to you at first, but i hope that in time you may come to find your method in our madness. 
speaker1: so. my very noble and approv'd good masters, let us now embark on our great voyage of discovery together. with boldness and good fortune, may we strive to create a work of art that, led by your good graces, will be cherished as long as motion pictures may be remembered.

speaker1: "were you surprised to get my invitation?" 
speaker2: "i'll say i was surprised. i was so surprised i couldn't hardly think you meant me."
speaker1: "oh but of course i meant you. i had your name most carefully marked down on my programme. in matters of this kind i assure you i am most methodical. who did you think i meant if not you?"
speaker2: gee, mister sir, i could listen to your accent all day.
speaker1: you are amongst friends, my darling angel. just plain larry will suffice. when you're ready..?
speaker2: "well, maisie springfield...
speaker1: "oh, no, no, no not maisie springfield, she's quite what i would call old hat...
speaker3: remember why you're in the embassy, marilyn. what does the grand duke want from elsie? she thought there were going to be a lot of people here and it's just her.
speaker1: it's your line, marilyn.

speaker1: locate the experience, marilyn. look for the memory that helps you. remember when you went to that party at chaplin's house and you were the only guest? how did that make you feel? 
speaker2: it is only a readthrough, paula.
speaker1: marilyn has to begin finding the character.
speaker2: the character is on the page.
speaker1: the words, maybe. not the character.
speaker3: she's half cut!
speaker4: aren't we going to have fun?

speaker1: we can't have two directors! 
speaker2: marilyn wants paula.
speaker1: why? she's got me!
speaker2: paula is costing us two and half thousand bucks a week. we might as well use her. listen larry, accept marilyn on her own terms and you'll be okay.

speaker1: come out with me tonight. 
speaker2: i'm working.
speaker1: tomorrow night, then.
speaker2: i'm washing my hair.
speaker1: your hair's lovely.
speaker2: look, i have two rules. one, never touch the talent...
speaker1: everyone has a lot of rules around here.
speaker2: ... and two, never go out with thirds.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because they're all randy little buggers who just want some fun during shooting.
speaker1: i'm not like that.
speaker1: really.

speaker1: i'm free on saturday. 
speaker2: colin!

speaker1: how kind of you to meet us. dear me, you do look cold. 
speaker2: they're ready for you in make-up dame sybil.
speaker1: how exciting! don't you love the first day of a new production?
speaker2: i don't know, dame sybil. i've never had one before.
speaker1: oh, to be young again!
speaker3: marilyn here yet?
speaker2: not yet.

speaker1: what the fuck's going on? i thought you had a contact in her house. 
speaker2: i do...
speaker1: well use him, then.

speaker1: well? what's happening? 
speaker2: she's... getting into character.

speaker1: she's kept dame sybil thorndike waiting in full costume for two hours. it's simply not fair. 
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: she wasn't happy with her make- up.
speaker1: right, mr. orton you wanted me to check the back projection. please join us, mr. cardiff.

speaker1: isn't she pretty though? 
speaker2: would you like to sit down, dame sybil?
speaker1: how kind of you, colin. yes, why don't we all sit down?

speaker1: are you a member of nattke? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that chair is a prop. props are nattke. if act members are going to do nattke jobs, i'm calling my men out.
speaker1: strike meeting!
speaker3: i'm sure we're all good union members here. there's no need to fall out over something so trivial.
speaker1: it might be trivial to you, dame sybil, but it's my livelihood. he's not in the union. put the chair down.
speaker1: put the chair down now!
speaker3: i rather think you've made your point. solidarity is the important thing here. when unions fall out, it's only management that benefits.
speaker1: if i see you doing a nattke job again i'll close this set down quicker than you can blink.
speaker1: dave, dame sybil needs a chair.

speaker1: sybil thorndike now that was a strike. we were all bolsheviks then! 
speaker2: didn't they teach you anything at eton? now off and see if you can get me a bacon sandwich without starting world war iii.

speaker1: camera running. 
speaker2: very quiet, everyone...
speaker1: speed.
speaker3: twenty two, take one.
speaker2: action!
speaker4: "now, before you meet my mother- in-law i must warn you she is a little vague and can be very deaf... on occasions."
speaker5: "my dear, such boredom! the decorations hideous, and the music... catastrophe! our friend, the ex-king of moravia drove me home.

speaker1: he is now called the duke of strelitz, he cannot of course go to the abbey tomorrow, but he is most anxious you should invite him to the room you have taken in the ritz for nicky. maud? 
speaker2: "yes, ma'am..."
speaker1: "oh there you are my dear, i did not see you, give me a glass of that champagne i see over there.
speaker3: "might i present miss elsie marina?"
speaker1: "oh yes, my dear, of course i remember you well."
speaker4: gee. i forgot my line. i'm sorry.
speaker3: cut.
speaker1: it's so easily done, isn't it? i'm sure i went wrong somewhere there too. shall we have another go, larry?

speaker1: "oh yes, my dear, of course i remember you well." 
speaker2: "oh, i'm quite sure you don't, your royal..., oh, i mean, your, uh, imperial... your uh... serene majesty."

speaker1: "what does she say?" 
speaker2: "she says she is deeply flattered and compliments you on your wonderful memory."
speaker3: "i'm in the coconut girl at the avenue." there is a pause. sybil thorndike hesitates.
speaker1: didn't i have a line somewhere there, dear?
speaker2: cut.

speaker1: action! 
speaker2: "thank you, my dear. sweetly pretty. she should use more mascara. when one is young one should use a lot of mascara, and when one is old one should use much more. what do you do, my dear?"
speaker3: "i'm in the coconut girl at the avenue".
speaker2: "dear?"
speaker4: "she says she is an actress."
speaker4: cut it there.
speaker1: check the gate.

speaker1: gate's good. 
speaker2: print.
speaker3: that was perfect, marilyn. you're elsie to the life!
speaker4: can i?
speaker2: she's impossible. i should have cast vivien.
speaker5: if anyone can make her great, it's you. you're a genius.
speaker2: oh, yes. the world's greatest living actor, so they say.
speaker2: let's hope i'm as brilliant as you think i am. now be a good boy and keep an eye on her.

speaker1: i just can't figure this movie out. 
speaker2: you were wonderful. you are the most gifted actress i have ever known. you were superb, marilyn.
speaker1: he was angry with me, i could tell.
speaker2: you were great. you are a great, great actress. all my life i have prayed for a great actress i could help and guide.
speaker2: like this. i prayed to on my knees. and he has given me you. you are that great actress, marilyn.
speaker1: come on, paula, get up.
speaker2: not until you admit you were great.
speaker1: oh, okay. i guess i was.
speaker3: you really were very good, miss monroe.

speaker1: are you sure you can afford all this? 
speaker2: oh, it's all right.
speaker1: it must be costing a week's wages.
speaker2: it's worth it.
speaker1: you're not the average third, are you? most of them would be happy with a swift half and a in the pub car park.
speaker2: i'm not living off my parents, if that's what you mean. i want to make my own way, no matter what.
speaker1: by making eyes at vivien leigh?
speaker2: who told you that?
speaker1: word gets around.
speaker2: vivien's a friend of my father's.
speaker1: so there's nothing in it? you and vivien?
speaker1: i'm not that easy.

speaker1: you'll be signing on your father's account, sir? 
speaker2: certainly not. i settle my own bills.
speaker2: i was always going to pay, you know.
speaker3: of course you were.
speaker3: do you think marilyn is beautiful?
speaker2: not compared to you.
speaker3: you don't have to try so hard to be charming. you're nice enough as it is. well, you could be.

speaker1: you know marilyn's really still in love with joe dimaggio? 
speaker2: so they say.
speaker1: she married miller on the rebound. the papers are calling them "the hourglass and the egghead".
speaker2: which one is which?

speaker1: wait a while, crocodile. 
speaker2: i really do like you, lucy.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker1: that's my dad.
speaker3: time to be thinking about bed, darling. early start tomorrow.
speaker1: sorry, daddy. we were just going over tomorrow's schedule.
speaker2: yes, i should be off. colin clark. pleased to meet you, mr. armstrong.
speaker2: this is a very nice house you've got.
speaker3: do you know this part of the world?
speaker2: umm... not really. my family are more country people.
speaker2: next saturday?

speaker1: colin, dear, i thought you looked cold so i bought you this. 
speaker2: thank you, dame sybil.
speaker1: film sets and rehearsal rooms are the coldest places on earth.

speaker1: she should be on time, like everyone else. 
speaker2: she is a star.
speaker1: i'm a star!
speaker1: if we nip this behaviour in the bud perhaps it won't be repeated.
speaker2: this is marilyn you're talking about.

speaker1: marilyn, darling you are an angel, and i kiss the hem of your garment, but why can't you get here on time for the love of 
speaker2: oh... you have that word in england too?
speaker3: marilyn has to prepare properly. she has to find in herself all that lies under the surface. acting isn't just a case of putting on a costume or some ludicrous false nose.
speaker1: you must apologise to dame sybil.

speaker1: i'm sorry... 
speaker2: my dear, you mustn't concern yourself. a great actress like you has many other things on her mind.
speaker1: you think i'm a great actress?

speaker1: that one's pretty good. you knocked it out of the park. 
speaker2: when marilyn gets it right you just don't want to look at anyone else.

speaker1: we've only been shooting for four days and we're already two weeks behind. 
speaker2: why not only show her the good takes? then she might feel better about herself.
speaker3: the kid's right. she could use the confidence.
speaker1: i believe it's traditional for the producer of the film to watch rushes. besides, she's an experienced actress. she should learn from her mistakes.
speaker2: they just upset her.
speaker1: not half as much as they upset me.

speaker1: your script... 
speaker2: i found it.
speaker2: you can go now, colin.

speaker1: tell him he can start sending them up. women first. 
speaker1: i'm looking forward to saturday.
speaker1: our date?
speaker2: i forgot. i can't do saturday.
speaker1: since when do you work for her?
speaker2: larry asked me to help out.
speaker1: well, of course you must do what larry says.
speaker2: next friday instead?
speaker2: i'll pick you up. eight o'clock.

speaker1: gee, it's quiet. 
speaker2: it's saturday. early closing. but they're expecting us.
speaker3: no one's recognised her.
speaker2: at least she can shop in peace.
speaker3: marilyn's a star. stars don't even pee alone.
speaker4: it's marilyn monroe!
speaker5: my she'll be torn apart...
speaker6: get her out of here.

speaker1: jeez, marilyn, they really love you. 
speaker2: madness. someone's going to get hurt.

speaker1: "well we're still the first ones, aren't we? gee, this is all right, isn't it? 
speaker2: cut. the line is "gee, this is all right too, isn't it". it's a tiny word, my darling, but it matters. let's go straight away.
speaker3: camera running.
speaker4: speed.
speaker3: mark it.
speaker1: "well we're still the first ones, aren't we? gee, this is all right, isn't it?"

speaker1: cut. nearly there, but terry did work so very hard on this and we must try to get it right for him. straight away, please. 
speaker2: "well, we're still the first ones, aren't we? gee, this is... all right, isn't it?"
speaker1: cut.
speaker2: can't we just drop it?
speaker1: the point is that you have already admired the downstairs hall in an earlier scene. now you are admiring this room as well.
speaker2: oh, sure. paula!
speaker2: i don't get it. he's such a strange man. i think she'd figure out he only invited her to sleep with her.
speaker3: the reason marilyn can't remember the line is because she doesn't believe the situation her character is in.
speaker1: then she should pretend to believe it.
speaker3: pretend? we're talking about the difference between the truth and artificial crap.

speaker1: maybe we should try for another take. 
speaker2: marilyn needs time to give a great performance. you should give her as long as it takes. chaplin took eight months to make a movie.
speaker3: eight months of this? i'd rather kill myself.
speaker4: i can't do this. i can't.
speaker2: you can do it. you can't fail. you will have more pain, you will suffer more but you will create. all you need is time.
speaker2: remember, marilyn, a tree is never just a tree. what kind of tree is elsie? an elm tree? a birch tree?
speaker3: under his breath to
speaker5: knows, but i'm a weeping willow.
speaker2: think about the things you like, instead of him. frank sinatra. coca cola. be specific. the character comes alive if you know what you're doing.

speaker1: "well we're still the first ones, aren't we? gee, this is all right, isn't it?" 
speaker2: cut.

speaker1: "well we're still the first ones, aren't we? gee, this is all right too, isn't it?" 
speaker1: paula!
speaker2: cut. what's the matter now?
speaker2: forgive me, marilyn. this is my failure, not yours. tell me how i can help you.
speaker1: i don't know who elsie is. i can't act her if i don't know who she is!

speaker1: elsie is all in the script 
speaker2: i can't find her. she's not there.
speaker1: but you have her precisely, you know her inside out. i'm in awe of your gift. we all are.
speaker2: she's not real.
speaker1: why not simply rely on your natural talents?
speaker2: are you saying i don't need to act?
speaker1: marilyn, you are the most attractive woman in the world. i'm simply suggesting you be yourself.
speaker2: i don't want to be myself! i want to be an actress playing a character.
speaker1: all you have to do, dear marilyn, is be sexy. isn't that what you do?
speaker2: i want lee.
speaker1: you've already got paula, for heaven's sake. i'm the director.
speaker3: i am only lee's representative.
speaker1: it's five in the morning in new york.

speaker1: "o, now, for ever farewell the tranquil mind/farewell content/ farewell the plumed troop and the big wars/that make ambition virtue o, farewell/farewell..." paula's not an actress. she not a director, not a teacher. her only talent is buttering up marilyn. 
speaker2: it would be worse if she wasn't around.
speaker1: you know what would make marilyn monroe a real actor? a season in rep. they wouldn't stand for this kind of nonsense at the hippodrome in eastbourne.
speaker2: you have to be patient with her.
speaker1: trying to teach marilyn how to act is like teaching urdu to a badger.
speaker2: i better go see her. she'll need something to help her calm down. colin holds the door for him as he goes out.
speaker1: pills to sleep, pills to wake up. pills to calm her down, pills to give her energy. no wonder she's permanently ten feet underwater.
speaker3: colin looks at him tentatively.
speaker4: maybe she's scared.
speaker1: we're all scared. it's part of being an actor.
speaker4: but you have the training to deal with it. olivier turns from the mirror to survey him.
speaker1: i wouldn't buy the little girl lost act if i were you. though heaven knows it's tempting.
speaker1: and i think marilyn knows exactly what she's doing.
speaker1: you better get over to parkside and make sure the poor girl's all right. and colin? don't forget who you work for.

speaker1: are you sure they won't mind? 
speaker2: help yourself. they can spare it. marilyn's okay. she's taken some pills and gone to bed.

speaker1: they like to keep her doped up. 
speaker2: you mean miller?
speaker1: the others. they're terrified their cash cow will slip away. he smiles grimly and raises his beer bottle.
speaker1: cheers!

speaker1: it's nearly lunch time. 
speaker2: she isn't feeling the part.
speaker1: it's a light comedy. how much feeling can it possibly require?
speaker2: give her a few minutes...
speaker1: she can't hide in her dressing room all day.
speaker2: oh, yes she can.

speaker1: how old are you? 
speaker2: 24. nearly
speaker1: you remind us of the young king in the movie. kind of honest and innocent.
speaker2: i'm not innocent.
speaker1: what's your job on this picture?

speaker1: i'm the third assistant director. just a gopher really. go for this, go for that... 
speaker2: you're larry's assistant too.
speaker2: what were you doing in my house last night? did he send you?
speaker3: colin hesitates. it seems pointless to deny it.
speaker1: he was worried about you.
speaker2: are you spying on me?
speaker1: no! of course not. why would anyone spy on you?
speaker1: are you all right, miss monroe?
speaker2: colin? whose side are you on?
speaker1: yours, miss monroe.
speaker2: call me marilyn.

speaker1: marilyn's got a new boyfriend. 
speaker2: you can say that again.
speaker3: nothing happened.

speaker1: paula was with us the whole time. 
speaker2: the mind boggles, dear.

speaker1: i dreamed last night i could hear singing. and then i realised it wasn't a dream. there was a male voice choir serenading marilyn under our window. at two in the morning. it's a circus. a freak show. 
speaker1: i'm going back to new york for a few days. i need to see my kids.

speaker1: that won't help marilyn. 
speaker2: i can't help her. you know what she loves to do most? sleep. it's what she lives for. sleep is her demon.
speaker2: i've disappointed her.
speaker2: she thought i could smash all her insecurities with one magical stroke. that i could make her a new person.
speaker2: she wants me to protect her but i can't. i can't even protect myself. she read some notes i made. they were nothing.
speaker1: about her?
speaker2: she took them the wrong way.
speaker1: but you do love her? your new bride and all that?
speaker2: i can't work. i can't think. she's devouring me.

speaker1: i hope larry isn't making you all work too hard. i know what a dreadful slave driver he can be. 
speaker1: david, he would be lost without you.
speaker2: just doing my job.
speaker1: i'm getting old, jack. i need you to work your miracles on me.
speaker3: you're more beautiful every year, vivien.
speaker1: now, you are looking after larry like i told you?
speaker4: i'm doing my best...

speaker1: darling marilyn! 
speaker1: larry tells me you are quite, quite superb. i'm wild with jealousy.
speaker2: oh, but everyone says you were a wonderful elsie on stage.
speaker1: but i'm too old to play her in the film. larry was quite brutal about that. you see, the truth is all that matters to him. that's why we all admire him so very much.
speaker1: now, i must let you work. i only came to wish you good luck! goodbye, everyone!
speaker1: oh, colin. not you too.

speaker1: i didn't think she would be so beautiful. she... shines on that screen. 
speaker2: you shouldn't upset yourself. you are ten times the actress she will ever be.
speaker1: if you could see yourself. the way you watch her...
speaker2: there's never been anything between marilyn and me.
speaker1: only because she didn't want you.
speaker2: you're imagining things.
speaker1: do you think i'm a fool? you didn't think the little tart could resist the great laurence olivier.
speaker2: vivien..!

speaker1: she hasn't been well. there was a baby... she... we... lost it... 
speaker1: do you have a cigarette, colin?
speaker1: not one of those awful things.
speaker1: vivien's right... i did think i would fall shatteringly in love with marilyn. what a joke.
speaker1: remember, boy, when it comes to women you are never too old for humiliation.

speaker1: colin pours whisky for olivier. milton comes in. 
speaker2: marilyn won't shoot today. she's gone back to parkside. she's upset about arthur leaving england.
speaker3: he's only going to visit his children.

speaker1: you don't leave marilyn alone. she can't handle it. she thinks everyone's going to abandon her. 
speaker2: perhaps she's come back. yes?
speaker3: sir laurence? it's roger.
speaker2: oh, roger. what's up?
speaker3: is colin there, sir?
speaker2: yes, he's here. it's for you.
speaker4: roger?
speaker5: colin, why don't you drop by here on your way home?
speaker1: what the heck?
speaker2: why is marilyn on the phone to my third assistant?
speaker4: yes, i'm sure i can do that.

speaker1: good. don't tell anyone though. she hangs up. 
speaker2: well? what did she want?
speaker3: she wants to see me.

speaker1: he shouldn't be talking to her. he's just a kid. supposing he says something? why the didn't she call me? 
speaker2: i'm sure colin knows what he's doing. don't you, colin?

speaker1: miss monroe said for you to wait. she won't be long. 
speaker2: help yourself to a drink.
speaker3: i was just... checking you've got everything you need.
speaker2: here, let me.
speaker2: are you frightened of me, colin?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: good. because i like you.
speaker2: i want you to help me. will you do that?
speaker1: i'm only the third. just a messenger, really.
speaker2: but you know what's going on. you can see both sides of the situation.
speaker2: i want you to be honest. tell me everything.
speaker2: relax. i thought you weren't scared of me. are you hungry? i'll have them send in a tray. i'm starved.
speaker2: oh, gee, i'm sorry. am i interrupting something? maybe you have a mrs. colin waiting for you at home?
speaker1: there's no mrs. colin.
speaker2: so we can talk as long as we like?
speaker2: why is sir olivier so mean? he talks to me as if he's slumming.

speaker1: i'll tell you what's wrong. it's agony for him because he's a great actor who wants to be a film star, and agony for you because you're a film star who wants to be a great actress. and this film won't help either of you. 
speaker2: are you sure you can handle that? you don't look old enough to drink.
speaker1: i'm 23, miss monroe.
speaker2: it's marilyn. i'm 30. i guess that makes me an old lady to you.
speaker1: seven years is nothing.
speaker2: do you know i've been married three times already? how did that happen?
speaker1: you were just looking for the right man.
speaker2: they always look right at the start.
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: everything's fine. miss monroe just had... some large packages she needed handling... 
speaker1: hello? milton?

speaker1: i'm sorry, milton. i have to go. 
speaker2: let's walk in the garden. see if we can find any more reporters in the bushes.

speaker1: i didn't know it was so pretty out here. 
speaker2: you should get out more. see the sights.
speaker1: i am the sights.
speaker1: look at us. we're just like elsie and the young king. what would sir laurence say if he could see us now?
speaker2: i don't think he'd mind.

speaker1: i wanted to be an artist. to grow as an actor. i was so proud to be working with the great olivier. now he thinks i'm the enemy. 
speaker2: he doesn't understand your kind of actor. he's hated the method ever since vivien worked with elia kazan. it's all too new and strange. you're the future, and it frightens him.
speaker1: every time i walk into the studio i feel this sense of doom come over me. he looks at me like he's smelling a pile of rotten fish. and the crew hate me. paula is the only person i can trust. except for you now, maybe.
speaker3: phone call for you, miss monroe. it's mr. miller.
speaker1: goodbye, colin. thanks for telling me the truth.
speaker3: you'll be leaving now, i expect.

speaker1: i hear you spent last night with marilyn. 
speaker2: i didn't spend the night with her. we just had a chat.
speaker3: i heard them chuckling.
speaker1: perhaps if colin is very diplomatic marilyn is more likely to behave herself.
speaker2: she just wants a chum, that's all.
speaker3: a chum? christ, what is this, goodbye mr. chips? grow up, kid.
speaker1: i thought working with marilyn would make me feel young again. but i look dead in the rushes. dead behind the eyes.
speaker1: perhaps i'm angry with her because in my heart i know my own career is in a terrible rut. i wanted to renew myself through her but all i see reflected in that magnificent face is my own inadequacy.
speaker1: you know, i admire marilyn. i really do. despite her behaviour. she has taken everything hollywood can throw at her and triumphed.

speaker1: an actress has to be pretty tough to get even a tenth as far as she has. 
speaker1: but be careful, boy. she doesn't need to be rescued. not really.

speaker1: what was marilyn like then, col? 
speaker2: going over her lines with her, were you?
speaker1: will she be in today or is she too tired?
speaker3: she was just being friendly.
speaker4: i'll bet.
speaker4: ever heard of the venus fly trap? there you are, colin the innocent little fly buzzing about happily, when suddenly a heavenly scent attracts you and - snap!
speaker3: oh, off, dickie. you've never slept with a woman in your life.

speaker1: three minutes, ladies and gents. three minutes. 
speaker2: arthur miller called me. he's not happy with you.
speaker3: he doesn't even know who i am.
speaker2: marilyn must have said something.
speaker3: maybe she was trying to make him jealous...

speaker1: listen, kid, i've known marilyn for seven years. i fell in love with her, just like you've done. 
speaker1: we had ten days together and that was it. she picked me up, she put me down. that's what she does. she breaks hearts. she'll break yours. my advice to you is to quit before you get burned.
speaker2: i don't need your advice. and i'm not in love with her.

speaker1: i waited for you on friday. 
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry... i forgot...
speaker1: so i hear.
speaker2: you know how crews gossip.
speaker1: of course there isn't. marilyn monroe fancying you? come on.
speaker3: hi, colin.
speaker3: hey, are you guys dating? that's what i heard.

speaker1: of course not. you know how crews like to gossip. 
speaker2: too bad. you look cute together.
speaker3: i thought you were different.
speaker1: lucy, i really like you. we've had such fun...
speaker3: and now it's time to set your sights a little higher. i get it. who do you think you are, cary grant?

speaker1: get in. 
speaker2: any problem, roger?

speaker1: just dropped by to take colin out to lunch. 
speaker2: you're not taking him to marilyn? that would drop us all in a whole ocean of
speaker1: oh, no, sir.
speaker2: what do you have in there?
speaker1: just a picnic. we've been looking forward to it, haven't we, colin?
speaker2: okay, well, have a nice time boys.
speaker3: is she okay?

speaker1: oh, - she laughs, looking wonderfully naughty. 
speaker2: roger and i decided to take you out for an adventure. didn't we roger?
speaker3: indeed we did.
speaker1: oh, if milton sees me with you... i'll be sacked...

speaker1: no one can sack you, colin. except me, of course. 
speaker1: i don't like being on my own in the back.
speaker2: what the hell?
speaker2: colin! get back here, you little bastard! you're fired! do you hear me? fired!
speaker1: do you think he saw me?
speaker1: snuggle up. this is fun.

speaker1: this is how i ought to feel every day. 
speaker1: let's run away together.
speaker1: just kidding.
speaker2: we have today, anyway. one day to do whatever we like. we can go back to real life tomorrow.
speaker1: only one day?
speaker2: well, maybe the weekend.
speaker1: or a week?
speaker1: what shall we do?
speaker2: we could go to windsor castle, if you like.

speaker1: detective chief superintendant smith. i'm escorting this lady and gentleman for the day. they'd like to look around the castle. 
speaker2: christ, is that..?
speaker1: well, it's not diana dors, is it?
speaker2: does she know anyone here, sir? we need to write down a contact name in the book.
speaker1: you don't know her majesty, by any chance?
speaker3: we met at a movie premiere. she said my dress was pretty.
speaker2: i'm not sure that quite...
speaker4: my godfather works here. he's the royal librarian, sir owen morshead.
speaker2: name?
speaker4: clark. colin clark.

speaker1: my father knows everybody. 
speaker2: he says to go straight up the hill, sir. you'll be met at the door.

speaker1: colin, my boy! come in, come in. forgive the dust. 
speaker1: you are pretty, my dear. i'm sure you and colin have so much in common.
speaker2: gee, i'd love to read all these books some time.

speaker1: luckily one doesn't really have to. a lot of them just have pictures in. 
speaker1: these are by an artist called holbein.
speaker2: she's beautiful.
speaker1: she was the daughter of one of the king's courtiers, nearly 400 years ago.
speaker2: i hope i look that good when i'm

speaker1: and these are all by leonardo da vinci. 
speaker2: i've heard of him! didn't he paint that lady with the funny smile?
speaker1: the mona lisa.
speaker2: do you have that one here too?
speaker1: alas, that one got away.
speaker1: now, let's go to the queen's apartments. she's not here at the moment, but she will be sorry to have missed you.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: oh, yes. why, she was only saying to me the other day, "what must it be like to be the most famous woman on earth"? 
speaker1: some of the rooms are very opulent but i think there's something you might like better than all that.

speaker1: look, colin. 
speaker1: i sure never had a dolls' house like this when i was a kid.
speaker1: this is me, that's you, and these are our kids.
speaker1: our daughter's so pretty. all little girls should be told how pretty they are. they should grow up knowing how much their mother loves them.
speaker1: we look like such a happy family, don't we?

speaker1: shall i be "her"? 
speaker2: are you somebody, mate?
speaker3: i'm no one.

speaker1: this isn't a school, it's a palace! 
speaker2: eton is 500 years old. it was founded by king henry vi.

speaker1: it's like walking through history. 
speaker2: take that room up there.

speaker1: that's where the boys were sent if they didn't work hard enough. where we were whipped. 
speaker2: whipped?
speaker1: beaten.
speaker2: i'd never send my kids away.
speaker1: five years. but i was sent to boarding school when i was eight.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: that's what we do in my family. she smiles at this, looking at him shrewdly.
speaker2: it seems to me that you've had most things pretty easy.
speaker1: in one way, yes. but when you're brought up in a house of over- achievers, it's hard to make your own mark.
speaker2: so how are you going to do it?
speaker1: maybe it will be in films, but if not, there are so many possibilities out there.
speaker2: sounds pretty good to me.

speaker1: work hard, boys! i don't want anyone whipping you! 
speaker2: you can whip me anytime, marilyn!

speaker1: hurry up, slow poke. 
speaker2: but we haven't got any...

speaker1: this is great. 
speaker2: what if a boat goes past? we could be arrested.
speaker1: don't worry. roger will fix it. oh, darn it...
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i have something in my eye.
speaker2: i can't see anything.
speaker1: get closer.
speaker1: that's the first time i've kissed anyone younger than me. there's a lot of older guys in hollywood.

speaker1: don't be shy, colin. it's nothing you haven't seen before. 
speaker1: oh, colin! and you an old etonian!
speaker2: let me warm you up.

speaker1: don't spoil it. 
speaker1: i want this to be the perfect date.
speaker1: i haven't had a real date since i was 13 years old.
speaker1: that was nice. i don't get kissed much.

speaker1: okay, what do we do now? 
speaker2: time to go home, i think, miss monroe.
speaker2: be careful not to get in too deep, son.

speaker1: hi milton. 
speaker1: next time i come on set, you better make sure colin is there.
speaker1: take him home.

speaker1: you spent the day with her. what frame of mind was she in? 
speaker2: she was fine.
speaker1: well, find out what's going on. there's a good chap. perhaps we can persuade her on this splendid day to do the work she's paying herself to do.
speaker2: don't start, dicky.
speaker3: you won't get any sympathy from me, dear. frankly i wouldn't care if marilyn dropped dead tomorrow.
speaker2: she's trying her best.
speaker3: she's marilyn monroe. this is her life. pills, booze, sex, more pills. it must be wonderful!
speaker3: oh, dear. little colin's in love.

speaker1: but she was wonderful yesterday. 
speaker2: i don't know what you did to her, kid, but she got nervous. i had to give her some pills to calm her down.
speaker1: she doesn't need pills! she just needs someone to care for her.
speaker2: someone like you?
speaker1: i told you, i'm not in love with her!
speaker2: you kissed her.
speaker1: she said that?
speaker2: spare me the i know everything.
speaker2: you messed her up, kid. confused her.
speaker2: i've got every penny i ever made tied up in marilyn. she owes me. if it wasn't for me she'd still be on contracts that make slave wages look good. i gave her back her freedom, and now miller's turning her against me. that's what you get for trying to help marilyn monroe.

speaker1: colin! colin! 
speaker2: roger? what's the matter?
speaker1: it's marilyn.
speaker2: is she dead?
speaker1: she's asking for you. she's sick.
speaker2: how can she be asking for me if she's in a coma?
speaker1: just get dressed!

speaker1: she hasn't made a sound for over an hour. 
speaker2: we should break down the door.
speaker3: how many pills did she take?
speaker4: oh, who knows? i wasn't counting.
speaker3: marilyn?

speaker1: that's her window. 
speaker2: i'll open the door once i'm inside.

speaker1: marilyn? 
speaker1: marilyn?

speaker1: oh hi, colin. 
speaker2: are you okay? everyone was worried about you.
speaker1: phooey.
speaker1: get in.
speaker2: it's me. she's fine but i'm going to keep an eye on her. i'll sleep on the sofa.
speaker3: come on, colin, open up.
speaker2: i can't find the key. you can all go to bed now.
speaker4: colin, open this door! she needs me...

speaker1: i came in through the window... 
speaker1: milton thought you were sick.
speaker2: the window? is there a balcony, like in romeo and juliet? how romantic. but i'm not sick. what makes them think that?
speaker1: please don't take any more pills.
speaker2: my mom.
speaker2: they took her to the sanatorium when i was a kid. i grew up in other people's homes, mostly.
speaker1: abraham lincoln?
speaker2: i don't know who my father is so it might as well be him. why not? i can pick any father i want.
speaker2: do you have a home, colin? a real one?
speaker1: yes, i do.

speaker1: and a mother and father who still live together? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: and do they love you?
speaker2: i'm sure they do.
speaker1: you're lucky.
speaker1: do you love me, colin?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: but you and i come from different worlds. you're like some greek goddess to me...
speaker1: i'm not greek.
speaker1: i don't want to be a goddess. i just want to be loved like an ordinary girl.
speaker2: mr. miller loves you.
speaker1: i found his notebook. it said i'd let him down.

speaker1: writers scribble all kinds of things. it doesn't mean anything. 
speaker2: he wanted me to find it. it said he should never have married me. that i was unpredictable and a woman-child, flighty and self- centred. he's left me, colin. why do the people i love always leave me?
speaker1: i'll never leave you.
speaker2: all people ever see is marilyn monroe. as soon as they realise i'm not her, they run.
speaker2: boy, there's a lot of men in this business. and they all think you've got to sleep with them.
speaker2: you're not like that. that's why i like you.
speaker2: you should date that wardrobe lady. she's pretty.
speaker1: i don't want to. i love you, marilyn.

speaker1: what's the matter? don't you want to make love? 
speaker2: maybe we should just be friends.
speaker1: okay. friends.
speaker1: this is nice. like spoons. i used to do this with johnny.
speaker2: who's johnny?
speaker1: johnny hyde. my agent, back in the old days. he was thin, like you...
speaker2: marilyn?
speaker2: do one thing for me? come into the studio on time tomorrow and show everybody what you can do. show larry you're a great actress.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: morning, boy. christ, you look rough. 
speaker1: let me know when marilyn arrives.
speaker2: oh, i'm pretty sure she'll be in this morning.

speaker1: "your grand ducal highness.." 
speaker2: "this is intolerable"!
speaker1: "with the deepest respect, sir, my message was so important i had no choice but to intrude".

speaker1: "revolution?" 
speaker2: "no, sir, miss marina's aunt has been in a motor accident. the hospital is calling for her most urgently."
speaker3: "what? oh, go away, you silly man."
speaker2: "miss marina, your aunt... you realise how serious her condition is?"
speaker3: "well, it's her own fault. she has no right being out at this time of night. she's 93!"
speaker4: cut it there!

speaker1: whatever it was you did to her, boy, keep doing it. 
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: from the first moment all i have felt is olivier's loathing and contempt. he thinks i'm unnecessary. me, her drama coach, surrogate mother, nursemaid. on call 24 hours a day to help her act, dole out pills, bolster her ego, keep her sober enough to work. me. unnecessary. no me, no marilyn. 
speaker1: you can come up now.

speaker1: you think i can act, don't you, colin? 
speaker2: of course i do. you were wonderful today.
speaker3: marilyn's tired now.
speaker1: i want him to stay with me.
speaker4: what would arthur say if he knew colin was here?
speaker2: you heard what she said. she wants me here.

speaker1: you have no idea of your position in the world, marilyn. you are the greatest actress there's ever been. not just actress. the greatest woman of this or any time. i love you like a daughter. colin is surprised to see tears in her eyes. 
speaker1: it's hard now, but believe me you will survive this and go on to better things. your life is ahead of you. you're young, just beginning.
speaker2: i'm so tired of feeling scared. life is so shitty. i hate it. it hurts too much.
speaker3: i'm here now. i'll look after you.
speaker2: good old colin. looking after me, looking after larry, looking after vivien. always putting everyone before yourself.

speaker1: it hurts! it hurts, colin! 
speaker1: the baby. i can't lose the baby.
speaker1: it's a surprise. for arthur. don't tell anyone. promise me.

speaker1: the doctor's coming. 
speaker2: marilyn, unlock the door.
speaker3: don't let anyone in.
speaker2: i won't.
speaker4: marilyn! marilyn, my baby, what has colin done to you?
speaker2: i haven't done anything. she's just... got a stomach ache. he reddens with embarrassment. roger coughs.

speaker1: i think he means her monthlies. 
speaker2: what will arthur say if she dies?
speaker3: she's not dying, for christ's sake.
speaker4: i'm dr. connell. is the patient in there?
speaker2: please save her... it's marilyn monroe. you can't let her die.
speaker4: perhaps you'd all like to give us a little privacy?
speaker5: happy now, kid?

speaker1: who's in charge here? 
speaker1: i've given mrs. miller an injection and the bleeding has stopped. she needs to stay in bed tomorrow but after that she'll be fine. i suggest someone stays with her.
speaker2: she'll be safe with me.
speaker3: she looks bitterly at colin.

speaker1: well, goodnight then. 
speaker2: was she really pregnant?
speaker1: i think that's a private matter between mr and mrs. miller.

speaker1: we have to say goodbye now, colin. arthur's on his way back. when this film is over i'm going to settle down and be a good wife to him. i'm going to learn to make matzo ball soup as good as his dad's. 
speaker1: we have to forget this ever happened.
speaker2: i don't want to forget.
speaker2: let me protect you from all this...

speaker1: what do you want to do? marry me? 
speaker2: why not? you could come and live at my parents place. you'd love it. it's a castle, like in a fairy tale. we wouldn't even have to live together. you could have your own suite of rooms...
speaker2: you could quit. forget marilyn monroe, forget hollywood. let it all go.
speaker1: this is what i've worked for my whole life. i couldn't just give it all up.
speaker2: why not, when it drives you crazy?
speaker1: you think i'm crazy?
speaker2: i didn't mean that. i just meant you could be happy.
speaker1: i am happy. i got everything i ever dreamed about.
speaker2: of course you're happy. you're a star. the biggest star in the world.
speaker2: you're right, marilyn. we have to forget all this.

speaker1: from now on i'm nobody. just the third. you don't even know i exist. we'll never look at each other again. 
speaker2: well, maybe just a wink. once in a while.

speaker1: they're ready for you on set, sir laurence. 
speaker2: marilyn?
speaker1: she's just arrived.
speaker2: only an hour late. not bad by her standards.
speaker2: maybe we will finish this film after all.

speaker1: i hope you will all forgive me. it wasn't altogether my fault. i have been ill. 
speaker1: i'd like you to remember i tried.

speaker1: "..i found a dream and lay in your arms the whole night through, i'm yours no matter what others may say or do. be light of heart and fancy free, that's the way to start, there will be nothing to lose till you lose your heart.." 
speaker2: first love is such sweet despair, colin.

speaker1: very quiet, studio! going for a take. 
speaker2: camera running! speed!

speaker1: "my dear..." 
speaker2: "i've got a solemn word of warning for you."
speaker1: "what's that, my beloved?"
speaker2: "you know what's going to happen? i'm going to fall in love with you, because i always, always do."
speaker3: cut! okay boys and girls, that's a wrap!

speaker1: if you'd all like to step this way, you'll find something i think you'll like. 
speaker1: a parting gift to each of you from marilyn. men on the left, ladies on the right.

speaker1: aren't you going to throw yours away? 
speaker2: of course not. it's from marilyn monroe.

speaker1: lucy? 
speaker1: i was wondering if you're doing anything this saturday.
speaker2: i'm washing my hair.
speaker2: did she break your heart?
speaker1: a little.
speaker2: good. it needed breaking.
speaker2: i might be free on wednesday.

speaker1: these our actors,/as i foretold you, were all spirits and/are melted into air, into thin air... 
speaker2: prospero.
speaker1: we are such stuff/as dreams are made on, and our little life/is rounded with a sleep..."
speaker1: she's quite wonderful. no training, no craft, no guile, just pure instinct. astonishing.
speaker2: you should tell her that.
speaker1: oh, i will. but she won't believe me. that's probably what makes her great. it's certainly what makes her so profoundly unhappy.
speaker1: i tried my best to change her, but she remains brilliant despite me. directing a movie has to be just about the best job ever invented, but marilyn has cured me of ever wanting to do it again.
speaker1: and now i'm going back to the theatre. john osborne is writing a piece for me.
speaker2: i thought you hated all that royal court stuff.

speaker1: miller made me see things differently. you have to find new worlds to conquer, if you want to be the best. and believe me, most of the time, i really am the best. 
speaker1: you've done a good job, boy. welcome to the circus.
speaker2: run it again, please.

speaker1: buy a girl a drink? 
speaker2: can i get another one of those please, barry?
speaker1: i didn't want to leave without saying goodbye.
speaker3: marilyn hands colin a package.
speaker1: the first time you saw this, all i had on was the radio.

speaker1: don't forget me. 
speaker2: as if i could.
speaker1: everyone else on the picture wishes they could.
speaker2: everyone else doesn't understand.
speaker1: be a gentleman and walk me to my car?

speaker1: what's that for? 
speaker2: that's for being on my side; and remember, when you see me wink, that's for you.
speaker3: was that really marilyn monroe?

speaker1: any messages? 
speaker2: it's probably just someone having a joke.
speaker1: did she say anything?

speaker1: she just asked you to call. it is a joke, isn't it? 
speaker2: probably. book a call as soon as you can. los angeles, california. brentwood 1890.

