speaker1: a card: chicago. 
speaker2: mommy got sick and it happened just like that and there was nothing anybody would do. and pull back to reveal:

speaker1: there's no why, annie. i'm just not up for it. i never said i was. 
speaker2: is there somebody else?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: you don't love me, is that it?
speaker1: nope.

speaker1: how about ... you're too narcissistic to commit to another human being in a long- term way. 
speaker2: that's good.

speaker1: five minutes in the microwave. any one of them, five minutes and done. ready to eat. do you know how to make juice? 
speaker2: microwave. five minutes.

speaker1: packing boxes. seth is moving out. 
speaker2: you take the microwave?
speaker3: what am i going to do with a microwave?
speaker2: you turn it on, you open it and you stand in front of it for a very long time.
speaker3: so you're angry. big deal.

speaker1: young man, it's none of my business, but maybe you should talk to someone. i myself have consulted a professional. i used to be up tight. 
speaker2: hypnotherapy...shiatu massage... loss of spouse support groups... single parent discussion nights... parents without partners. partners without parents. people who need people. guys who go into the woods, beat drums and bond. get a shrink. hug a friend. hug yourself.
speaker2: don't mind him. he's the guy who just lost his wife. what i really think is we need a change.
speaker1: good idea. take a few weeks off, get some sun, take jonah fishing --
speaker2: a real change. new city. someplace where every time i go around a corner i don't think of maggie.

speaker1: where you going to go? 
speaker2: i was thinking about seattle.

speaker1: honey, he wasn't right for you. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: he wasn't even wrong for you, like cosmically wrong, so don't beat up on yourself for wasting...however long it was.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: maybe you should see a shrink.
speaker2: i want my money.
speaker1: go home for the weekend.
speaker2: that's what i'm going to do. i'm going to go home. i quit. laurie, i quit. i'm going back to baltimore. how does a blonde do a high- five?

speaker1: dad says i'm going to get used to it, but i don't think you can ever get used to a designated hitter. 
speaker2: eventually, in a few months, you'll start seeing women, you'll meet someone.
speaker3: move on. right. that's what i'm going to do. in a few months, boom, i'll be fine, i'll just grow a new heart.
speaker2: i'm sorry --
speaker4: sam, she didn't mean --
speaker3: i know, i know. look, it doesn't happen twice.

speaker1: for what? 
speaker2: for life as we know it.
speaker3: just make sure he isn't fat like my michael or you'll spend your whole life worrying he's going to drop dead.
speaker4: you guys are so romantic.
speaker2: do you know how long romance lasts? that long.
speaker1: steven still brings me flowers every friday and we've been married 10 years.
speaker3: honey, nobody wants to hear that. here, darling, have some tic tacs.
speaker2: the next time you see me i am going to be incredibly happy.

speaker1: the short one with black hair is your cousin irene -- 
speaker2: -- who's married to --
speaker1: harold, who ran away with his secretary but came back --
speaker2: -- because irene threatened to put the dog to sleep if he didn't --
speaker1: and your brother tom is a psychology professor and is married to...betsy --
speaker2: -- who is the most competitive woman in the world --

speaker1: your uncle milton lost all his money in a puerto rican condominium that went belly up, don't mention the irs or the federal prison system. your mother is barbara, your father is cliff -- 
speaker2: i hope he doesn't get out his slides.
speaker1: am i what they had in mind?
speaker2: they're going to love you.

speaker1: everybody! annie has an announcement -- 
speaker2: walter and i are engaged!
speaker3: that's wonderful, annie. i hope it lasts... for years and years.
speaker4: do you have a ring?
speaker2: no. not yet.
speaker4: oh. well. how will anyone know?
speaker5: because you're going to call them all and tell them. congratulations, walter. he claps walter on the back.
speaker6: are you all right?
speaker7: it's nothing. nothing.
speaker2: it's probably just the flowers --
speaker1: we'll move them --
speaker7: don't touch them. i feel terrible sneezing at a time like this. this is a big moment for me --
speaker2: he's allergic to everything, don't worry about it --
speaker8: bees. i'm allergic to bees.
speaker6: not salmon i hope --
speaker2: if he eats one tiny piece of a nut --
speaker7: my head swells up like a watermelon and i drop dead.
speaker3: it's the same with harold and bees.
speaker6: your mother and i had salmon at our wedding, and i really think a wedding without cold salmon --
speaker7: i'm not allergic to salmon. i don't think. but you never know.
speaker8: you never know.
speaker1: oh, honey, i feel terrible, we used up this magnum of champagne we were saving on something else, what did we use it for?
speaker5: uncle milton's parole --
speaker1: right.
speaker9: and it was delicious.
speaker1: it was, wasn't it, milton darling --
speaker4: when are you getting married, annie?
speaker6: in early june. in the garden.
speaker8: does it have to be in the garden?
speaker3: what about harold and bees?
speaker1: we'll spray you.
speaker6: cold salmon. a lovely cucumber salad. strawberries.
speaker7: i'm afraid i'm allergic to strawberries.
speaker6: no strawberries.
speaker2: is that all right with you?
speaker7: today i consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth.
speaker3: what are you wearing?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker4: i wish you would wear my dress. i only wore it once, and you'll barely have to do anything to it except take it in in the bust --
speaker1: i have something that might do

speaker1: the historical society wanted this and i never would give it to them -- 
speaker2: granny's dress. oh, mom.
speaker1: i notice these things are back in fashion. oh, honey. he's a lovely man, annie.
speaker2: i know. he's wonderful, isn't he?
speaker1: are his folks nice?
speaker2: you'll love them. we're going down to d.c. tonight to be with them christmas morning.
speaker1: how did it happen?
speaker2: it's silly, really. i mean, i'd seen him at the office, obviously i'd seen him, he's the associate publisher, and then one day we both ordered sandwiches from the same place, and he got my lettuce and tomato sandwich on whole wheat, which of course he was allergic to, and i got his lettuce and tomato on white.
speaker1: how amazing.
speaker2: it is, isn't it? you make millions of decisions that mean nothing and then one day you decide to order takeout and it changes your life.
speaker1: destiny takes a hand.
speaker2: oh, please. destiny's just something we've invented because we can't stand the fact that everything that happens is accidental.
speaker1: then how do you explain that you both ordered exactly the same sandwich except for the bread? how many people in this world like lettuce and tomato without something else like tuna?
speaker2: it wasn't a sign. it was a coincidence.
speaker1: i was in atlantic city with my family. cliff was a waiter. he talked me into sneaking out for a midnight walk on the steel pier. i've probably told you this a million times, but i don't care. and then he held my hand. i was scared. all sorts of thing were going through my head. but after a while i forgot about them. at one point i looked down, at our hands, and i couldn't tell which fingers were mine and which were his. and i knew.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you know.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: magic. it was magic.
speaker2: magic.
speaker1: i knew we would be together forever, and that everything would be wonderful, just the way you feel about walter. walter. it's quite a formal name, isn't it? one of the things i truly knew was that your father and i were going to have a wonderful time ... in the sack i believe you call it --
speaker2: mom!
speaker1: of course it took several years before everything worked like clockwork in that department, so don't be worried if it takes a while --
speaker2: mom, we already...
speaker1: well, fine, fine. fiddle da dee. and how's it working?
speaker2: like... clockwork.
speaker1: so you'll get married in a new dress.
speaker2: it's a sign.
speaker1: you don't believe in signs.

speaker1: they loved you. i told you they would love you and they did. 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: i love you, walter. did anyone ever call you anything other than walter?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: even when you were young?
speaker2: nope. not even when i was young.
speaker2: you sure you don't want to drive with me?
speaker1: how will i get back to baltimore saturday? oh i forgot my present for your stepmother -- i took it inside by accident.
speaker2: i'll wait.
speaker1: don't be silly. i'll just be ten minutes behind you.

speaker1: welcome back to "you and your emotions." i'm dr. marcia fieldstone broadcasting across america from the top of the sears tower in chicago where we would have a fantastic view of santa claus and his reindeer if there was a -- oops, never mind. tonight we're talking about wishes and dreams. what's your wishes this christmas eve? maybe the best present you can give yourself is a call to me. the number is -- 
speaker2: give me a break.
speaker3: the subject of the evening's medical update is you and your spleen and our host -- she flips the dial back the other way.
speaker4: our caller is from seattle.
speaker3: coming up, jingle bells backwards, sung by the new jersey cape mayettes --
speaker5: hello, this is jonah -- annie's hand lingers on the dial.
speaker4: no last names, jonah. hello there, you sound younger than our usual callers. how come you're up so late?
speaker6: it's not that late in seattle.
speaker4: got me there. what's your christmas wish, jonah?
speaker6: it's not for me. it's for my dad. i think he needs a new wife.
speaker4: you don't like the one he was now?
speaker6: he doesn't have one now.
speaker4: where's your mom?
speaker6: she died.
speaker2: i don't believe this --
speaker4: i'm sorry to hear that, jonah.
speaker6: i've been pretty sad, but i think my dad is worse.
speaker6: i'm worried about him, he's worried about me, i ride my bike to school, he follows in the car, like i'm not supposed to know he's there. now it's christmas, and you know what happens to people at christmas.
speaker2: they lose their minds and call crackpot doctors on the radio --
speaker4: have you talked to your dad about this?
speaker6: no.
speaker4: why not?
speaker6: it's very hard for him to talk about this stuff. it's like it makes him sadder.
speaker4: you want me to talk to him?
speaker2: perfect. sandbag the father.
speaker6: and you crazy? he thinks shows like this are dumb. if you didn't have an 800 number i could never get away with this
speaker6: yeah.
speaker4: well, i think i can help a little more if i talk to him directly.
speaker6: i don't know --
speaker4: i'm sure he won't be angry once he realizes how concerned you are about him.
speaker6: okay, but if i get yelled at, i'm never gonna listen to this show again.
speaker4: fair enough.

speaker1: dad -- 
speaker2: what is it?

speaker1: there's somebody on the phone for you. his name is sam. 
speaker2: this is completely disgusting.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello, sam, this is dr. marcia fieldstone on network america.
speaker1: i'm probably not interested in whatever you're selling.
speaker2: i'm not selling anything. your son called and asked for advice on how to find you a new wife.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: dr. marcia fieldstone of network america.
speaker1: are we on the air?
speaker3: don't be mad at me, dad.
speaker2: he feels that since your wife's death you've been very unhappy. he's genuinely worried about you.
speaker1: i'm not mad at you. okay, i'm not mad at you.
speaker2: i think it's hard for him to talk to you about all this. maybe we could talk and it would make him feel a little better.
speaker3: please --

speaker1: this is a grotesque violation of this man's personal life, but never mind -- 
speaker2: all righ...
speaker3: good. how long ago did your wife die?

speaker1: it's been about a year and a half. 
speaker2: have you had any relationship since?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: look, doctor, i don't want to be rude, but --
speaker2: and i don't want to invade your privacy --

speaker1: sure you do. 
speaker2: sure you do -- annie smiles.
speaker2: look, we had a tough time at first, but i think i'm holding my own as a dad, and jonah and i will get along fine again as soon as i break his radio.
speaker3: i have no doubt that you're a good dad. you can tell a lot from a person's voice. but something must be missing if jonah feels that you're still under a cloud.
speaker4: tell her how you don't sleep at night.
speaker2: how do you know that?
speaker4: i can hear you walking around sometimes. at first i thought it was a robber. go ahead, tell her, dad.
speaker2: i don't think i have to now.
speaker2: look, it's almost christmas -- a kid needs a mother -- he puts an arm around jonah.
speaker3: could it be that you need someone just as much as jonah does?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: i'm losing my mind.

speaker1: what's she talking about? 
speaker2: this is where other people get to call in and dump on what you said.

speaker1: i'll bet he's tall, with a cute 
speaker2: i'll bet he hasn't shaved in a week. i'll bet he stinks.
speaker1: shut up, harriet. what'll it be?
speaker3: coffee, please. black. to go.
speaker1: maybe i should hustle myself out to seattle. give him a little present for new year's eve.
speaker2: you can go there if you want but don't open his refrigerator. they don't cover anything when they put it in the fridge. they just stick it in and leave it there till it walks out by itself.
speaker1: harriet, ever since you divorced your last husband, you've been no fun. i'm looking, and this guy pops my tarts.
speaker4: come on, loretta, you're going to have to jump-start this guy. his battery's dead. and look at me. mister ever-ready. every six minutes, another charge.
speaker1: i'm looking for someone sensitive.
speaker3: come on, nobody wants a guy who's sensitive on the radio.
speaker5: let's take a call before we get back to sleepless. knoxville, tennessee, you're on.
speaker6: yes, i would just like to know where i could get this man's address?
speaker1: honey, get on line.

speaker1: do you think there's somebody out there you could love as much as your wife? maybe even more? 
speaker2: it's hard to imagine.
speaker1: what are you going to do, sam?
speaker2: i don't know. when i met my wife, it was so clear. i just knew.
speaker1: what was it that made you know?
speaker2: i don't think i could really describe it.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: and if i could describe it, it probably wouldn't be on a radio show. but what the hell. it's not one specific thing. it's more of a feeling.
speaker2: you touch her for the first time, and suddenly... you're home. it's almost like...
speaker3: magic.
speaker2: magic.

speaker1: well, it's time to wrap up, folks -- 
speaker1: we hope you'll call again soon.
speaker2: annie?
speaker1: ... and let us know how it's going.
speaker2: annie?
speaker3: i'm sorry, walter. i just heard the most amazing thing on the radio.
speaker3: people call up these shows and you can't believe the stuff they say. it's the end of privacy as we know it, this country is just one big global village with everyone out there going blah blah blah --

speaker1: the hopes are perfect -- beautiful, identical, smooth -- and they are for something really amazing i feel it in my bones -- 
speaker2: it's a spice rack.
speaker1: we desperately need a spice rack. desperately.

speaker1: and we desperately need spices. 
speaker2: dad? about last night?
speaker1: it's never happening again.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: then it never happened. sam goes to answer the door.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: hi. sam?
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: you must be jonah.
speaker3: see. i told you. sam and jonah. i'm lulu. this is jobeth.
speaker3: we live two piers over, don't we? number 12, right? we're having like a really neat open house today from like four to whenever if you care to stop by.
speaker1: thanks, but... we've got plans.
speaker3: well, here's the number. if you ever find yourself sleepless, give us a call. we also... do babysitting. she winks. jobeth nods. sam nods.
speaker2: not.
speaker1: my feelings exactly.
speaker1: how many people do you think heard that thing last night?
speaker2: it plays in 50 states.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: nobody else is going to know it was us.
speaker1: you're right. you better hope so.

speaker1: this man sells the greatest soup you've ever eaten, there's a line around the block, and he is, i am not kidding, the meanest man in america. i feel strongly about this, becky. this is not just about soup. 
speaker2: do it. what else?
speaker3: new year's eve. please don't make me write it.
speaker2: wyatt, i do not mean to remind you of your mother, but if you don't put that game away, no tv for a week.
speaker3: would someone look this up, don't tell me where.
speaker2: listen to this. phone service in the greater chicago area was tied up for two hours christmas eve because some kid called a phone-in show to get a wife for his father. two thousand women called in for the number.
speaker1: 
speaker4: i heard it. this kid calls up and says my dad needs a wife and i'm talking to myself in the car saying, this is completely disgusting, you're taking advantage of a child, and then the father gets on and this shrinkette says, do you want to talk about it? and he says no as a matter of fact i don't, and i am saying, bravo! right on! don't talk to her, it's none of her business -- -- and then suddenly, for no reason at all, he's talking about how much he loved his wife, and how he just -- fell in love with her and i am crying. me. a tear is actually rolling down my face. it was like what happens when i watch those phone company ads. i don't have to see the whole ad, i just have to see the part where the daughter gives her mother a refrigerator with a big red bow on it, have you seen that one?
speaker2: you should write something about this.
speaker4: about what?
speaker2: whatever it is.
speaker1: what it is is, there are a lot of desperate women out there looking for love.
speaker3: especially over a certain age.
speaker1: it is easier to be killed by a terrorist after the age of 40 than it is to get married --
speaker4: that is not true. that statistic is not true.
speaker2: it's not true, but it feels true.
speaker4: there's practically a whole book about how that statistic is not true --
speaker3: calm down. you brought it up --
speaker4: i did not, wyatt.
speaker2: so where were we?
speaker3: new year's eve. i'll do it, okay?
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: if someone is a widower, why do they say he was widowed? why don't they say he was widowered?
speaker4: i was jus wondering.

speaker1: what was that about up there? 
speaker2: what was what?
speaker1: what's with you?
speaker2: nothing's with me.
speaker1: "sleepless in seattle"?
speaker2: that's what she called him on the show. because he can't sleep.
speaker1: and now 2,000 women want his number. the guy could be a crackhead, a psychopath, a flasher, a junkie, a transvestite, a chain-saw murderer, or someone really sick, like rick.
speaker2: actually, he sounded nice.
speaker1: oh? oh, really? now we're getting down to it.
speaker2: not.

speaker1: now she wants a circular stairwell off the den. 
speaker2: punch me, punch in right here. and she wants the sub-zero with the side-by-side doors --
speaker3: which means --
speaker4: the cabinets have to be redone

speaker1: so we thought -- 
speaker2: since you're on the make again
speaker3: great. this is great. the whole town knows. just out of curiosity, how do you two know?
speaker1: grace heard it.
speaker3: grace the dispatcher. great.
speaker1: the point is, take the client out to dinner and ask her to marry you and then maybe we won't have to redo the kitchen cabinets.
speaker3: why me? what about jay?
speaker2: hey, my plate is full.
speaker3: well, okay. what's the big deal? if she'll forget the new fireplace, i'll marry her. just point me in the right direction.
speaker4: dad, i don't know about this one --
speaker3: oh, you're changing your mind

speaker1: no, i'm not, but -- 
speaker2: what's the matter with this one? wouldn't you like to have imelda marcos as your mother?
speaker1: dad -- sam cuffs him good-naturedly.
speaker2: we better take the measurements for the new cabinets.
speaker3: sam, if you're not doing anything new year's -- obviously you're not doing anything new year's -- we're having some people over, all of them married, not one even remotely interested in playing around. does that sound great or what? i can't think of the last time i was at a party when anything actually happened.
speaker2: thanks, but i'll pass. it's kind of a big night. i don't like to leave jonah alone.

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: i forgot to mention. jed called --
speaker2: just out of curiosity, do you have any friends whose names don't begin with a j? i feel like it was a failure of the imagination on our part naming you jonah. what is marjoram? does anyone know?
speaker3: jed is having a slumber party new year's eve and he invited me.
speaker2: fine. fine.
speaker3: so i can go.
speaker2: sure. looking good.
speaker3: shouldn't you have used a toggle bolt?
speaker2: i think i know how to have a spice rack. he puts in the last spice.
speaker2: piss.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm sorry.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm just --
speaker3: stressed.
speaker2: right. i'm sorry, jonah, i'm sorry.

speaker1: can i have half your beer? 
speaker2: sure. it's maggie.
speaker3: what did i used to say? here's looking at you? here's mud in your eye?
speaker2: here's to us. you used to say here's to us. oh babe. i miss you so much it hurts. he reaches out for her. she's gone.

speaker1: happy new year, darling. 
speaker2: happy new year.
speaker1: i was thinking, i have to go up to boston for the aap convention and then visit winston-hughes about switching over our computers. why don't we meet in new york for valentine's day weekend?
speaker2: walter, i'd love to --
speaker1: we'll stay at the plaza --
speaker2: go for a walk in central park --
speaker1: go to the symphony -- a beat.
speaker2: we will? the symphony? okay. i'll take you to the russian tea room for pelmeni.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: it's delicious, trust me.
speaker1: does it have wheat in it?
speaker2: i don't think so.

speaker1: look at this, dad. they're all for you -- 
speaker2: if you're having trouble sleeping, you might want to try drinking a glass of water from the other side.
speaker1: i thought that was for hiccups.
speaker2: does it work for hiccups?
speaker1: for hiccups, a spoonful of sugar, you hold it in your mouth for a minute.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: just out of curiosity, how did they get our address? 
speaker2: they called and asked for it. "dear sleepless in seattle. you are the most attractive man i've ever laid ears on."
speaker1: how did they get our phone number?
speaker2: you have to give them your phone number or they won't let you go on the air.
speaker2: "dear sleepless in seattle: i am an swf"-- what is that?
speaker1: thank something you don't know. it's a single white female.
speaker2: this is no good. she's looking for someone french. or greek. "dear sleepless in seattle: i live in tulsa." where is that?

speaker1: oklahoma. do you know where that is? 
speaker2: somewhere in the middle.
speaker1: i'm not going to think about what they're not teaching you in school. i am not going to think about it. generally speaking i think we should rule out people who don't live somewhere near here

speaker1: she's willing to fly anywhere. 
speaker2: she looks like my third grade teacher. i hated my third grade teacher. hold it! wait a minute! she is my third grade teacher!
speaker1: dad, you're not taking this seriously.
speaker2: this is not how you do it. you want this on an english muffin or a bun?
speaker1: english muffin. how do you do it?
speaker2: you see someone you like, you get a feeling about them, you ask them if they want to have a drink or --
speaker1: -- a slice of pizza --
speaker2: but not dinner necessarily on the first date because by the time you're halfway through dinner you might be sorry you asked them to dinner whereas if it's just a drink, if you like them you can always ask them for dinner but if you don't you can go home if you see what i mean. i wonder if it still works this way.
speaker1: it doesn't. they ask you.
speaker2: i'm starting to notice that.
speaker1: if you get a new wife, i guess you'll have with her, huh?
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: will she scratch up your back?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: in the movies women are always scratching up guy's back and screaming and stuff. when they're having sex. 
speaker2: whose show was this on?
speaker1: jed's got cables.
speaker2: go to sleep.
speaker1: kiss howard. g'night, howard.

speaker1: up next, "you and your emotions" with dr. marcia fieldstone, clinical psychologist and the best friend you never had. 
speaker2: he says he doesn't love me any more.
speaker3: why do you want to be with someone who doesn't love you?
speaker4: every time i come close to he stops and goes to make himself a sandwich --

speaker1: why don't you make him a sandwich beforehand? 
speaker2: when i met my wife, it was so clear. i jus knew.
speaker1: what was it that made you know?
speaker2: i don't think i could really describe it.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: and if i could describe it, it probably wouldn't be on a radio show. but what the hell. it's not one specific thing. it's more of a feeling. you touch her for the first time, and suddenly... you're home. it's almost like... magic.
speaker3: we'll be back after this commercial with dr. marcia fieldstone.

speaker1: i think i'm going crazy, tom. i really do. are you happily married? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i mean, why did you get married? was it all fireworks and trumpets and --
speaker2: i got married because betsy said we had to break up or get married. so we get married.
speaker1: but when you met her, did you believe she was the only person for you? that in some mystical, cosmic way, it was fated?
speaker2: annie, when you meet someone and you're attracted to them, it just means that your subconscious is attracted to their subconscious, subconsciously. so what we think of as chemistry is just two neuroses knowing that they are a perfect match.
speaker1: i don't even know him. but i'm having all these fantasies about a man i've never met, who lives in seattle.
speaker2: it rains nine months of the year in seattle.
speaker1: i know, i know. i do not want to move to seattle. but what i really don't want to do is end up always wondering what might have happened and knowing i could have done something. what do you think? it's just cold feet, isn't it? everyone panics before they get married, didn't you?
speaker2: yes, i did.
speaker1: thank you, tom. i feel so much better just having blown this off.
speaker2: any time.

speaker1: sandy has a girlfriend, clenda ... she's a weightlifter, but it's not like her neck is bigger than her head or anything -- 
speaker2: i'm not asking you to set me up, jay. that's not what i need your help for. i want to know what it's like over there.
speaker1: and that's what i'm trying to tell you. what women are looking over, okay? pecs and a cute
speaker2: you mean, like, "he has the cutest butt"? where did i hear that recently?
speaker1: everywhere. you can't even turn on the news without hearing about how some babe thought some guy's was cute. who the first babe to say this was i don't know, but it caught on.

speaker1: when's the latest time you were out there? 
speaker2: seventy... eight.
speaker1: well. things are different. first, you have to be friends. you have to like each other. then you neck. this can go on for years. then you have tests. then you get to do it with a condom. the good news is, split the check.
speaker2: i don't think it could let a woman pay for dinner.
speaker1: great. they'll have a parade in your honor. you'll be man of the year in seattle magazine. tira misu.
speaker2: what's tira misu?
speaker1: you'll find out.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: you'll see.
speaker2: some woman is going to want me to do it to her and i'm not going to know what it is.
speaker1: you'll like it.
speaker2: this is going to be tougher than i thought.
speaker2: jonah?
speaker2: jonah?
speaker2: jonah?

speaker1: jonah? 
speaker2: hi, dad. dad, this is jessica.
speaker1: it's nice to meet you, jessica.
speaker2: dad, this is amazing. if you play this backwards, it says "paul is dead."
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker2: dad, could you close the door?
speaker3: h and g. hi and goodbye. sam closes the door to jonah's room.
speaker1: get a life.

speaker1: now those were the days when people knew how to be in love. 
speaker2: you're a basket case.
speaker1: they knew it. time, distance, nothing could separate them. because they knew. it was right. it was real. it was...
speaker2: ... movie. that's your problem. you don't want to be in love. you want to be in love in a movie. read it to me.
speaker1: "dear sleepless and son..."
speaker2: it sounds like the name of a mattress store --
speaker1: "i am not the sort of person who listens to call-in radio shows" -- becky flops on the couch.
speaker2: and this woman is a writer! that's what everyone writes at the beginning of letters to strangers.
speaker1: i know that. you think i don't know that? "i know that's a way to begin, but it's the only way i can think of to convey what happened to me the other night when i heard the two of you on the radio. on the other hand, maybe i'm just losing my mind."
speaker2: you are. you're losing your mind. what about walter?
speaker1: i'm going to marry walter. i just have to get this out of my system.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i should say something in this about magic.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't know. i mean, what if i never meet him? what if this man is my destiny and i never meet him?
speaker2: your destiny can be your doom.
speaker1: "i want to meet you..."
speaker2: "on top of the empire state building at sunset on valentine's day."
speaker1: good. perfect. i'll be in new york with walter, i can squeeze it in. she types in becky's idea.
speaker2: you want to hear about destiny? if my husband hadn't gone on a diet, which caused me to leave him, i would never have been on that flight to miami, and met rick, and ended up having in the bathroom of a 727 with that you slide that says "vacant-occupied, vacant- occupied, vacant-occupied" --
speaker1: you never told me you left your husband because he went on a diet.
speaker2: he lost all the weight...
speaker1: that's impossible. a guy can't

speaker1: can too. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and then you left him? he lost weight there and you left him?
speaker1: plus he fell in love with a temp.
speaker2: listen to this, i love this part --
speaker1: men never get this movie.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: do you think at the end of the movie when she's in the wheelchair they can still do it?
speaker2: i always wondered about that too.

speaker1: it's okay, it's okay. i'm here. 
speaker2: it was sinking.
speaker1: what was?
speaker2: our house. there was water coming in all the windows.
speaker1: you're worried we're going to be all right. we're going to be all right. i remember sometimes you'd have nightmares as a baby. your mom would hold you and rock you and sing you a song.
speaker2: bye bye blackbird.
speaker1: is that what she used to sing?
speaker2: i miss her. what do you think happens to someone after they die?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: like do you believe in heaven?
speaker1: i never did. or the whole idea of an afterlife. but i don't know any more. i have these dreams about... your mom... and we have long talks about... about you, and how you are, which she sort of knows but i tell her anyway. so what is that? it's sort of an afterlife, isn't it?
speaker2: i'm starting to forget her.
speaker1: i know. but she's here, jonah. because i have you. and as long as i have you, i have your mom.
speaker1: i... uh... have a date with someone friday night.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: did i ever tell you about the time i ate a dog biscuit?

speaker1: laurie, it's annie. fine, i'm fine. listen, i'm doing an article on call-in radio shows. do you know anyone who works for someone named dr. marcia fieldstone...? 
speaker1: i'm a writer for the baltimore sun and i'm a friend of laurie johnson's. i'm doing a piece on how people handle bereavement and i understand that you had a caller the other night... i know you're not supposed to, but laurie said you might, and i'll plug the show and everything --
speaker2: this is jonah baldwin, we're not in right now but you can leave -- annie hangs up.
speaker1: baldwin.

speaker1: directory. enter password. ann reed. bsun124. find. samuel baldwin. 216 samuel baldwin. strike y to printout or enter factors. samuel baldwin, seattle. not found. samuel baldwin, jonah baldwin. samuel baldwin, jonah baldwin found. strike y to printout or enter factors. 
speaker2: samuel. baldwin, chicago. four samuel baldwins. strike y to printout. samuel baldwin, arrested for grand larceny, 1961. samuel baldwin, alderman, convicted of accepting bribes, 1967. samuel j. baldwin, architect, built city plaza.

speaker1: i need to know about him because... he's involved with my sister... 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: she has a pattern of getting involved with losers... once she almost ran away with a human cannonball from the circus.
speaker2: do you want a matrimonial, past wives, any kids--
speaker1: no, i know that part --
speaker2: so you want a financial, is he a deadbeat, we can do a dandb --
speaker1: no, no, no, it's more like, who is he, does he have a sense of humor, is he nice -- no forget nice, i've got nice --
speaker2: a sense of humor.
speaker1: i'll tell you the truth, i heard this guy on a call-in radio show and i might not marry the person i should marry because i've become obsessed with him.
speaker2: oh. like glenn close in that movie.
speaker1: no. not remotely. i just want to find out about him.
speaker2: you want a tail. i got a guy in seattle --

speaker1: so how long have you been a woman? 
speaker2: about two weeks.
speaker3: pssst!
speaker4: clarise, i'll be back by midnight i'm sure --
speaker3: whenever.
speaker4: this one's for both of us.
speaker5: sleepless and son. baltimore.
speaker4: i left the number of the restaurant i'll be at if there's any emergency.
speaker3: fine.
speaker4: how do i look?
speaker5: great.
speaker4: i look stupid. i look stupid, don't i? i look like i'm trying too hard. i was going to get a haircut but then i thought i'd look like i just got a haircut.
speaker5: this is a good letter, dad.
speaker4: the heels on these shoes are very large. why have i never noticed this? the heels on these shoes are grotesque.
speaker5: her name is annie. annie reed.
speaker4: now i'm late. bye.
speaker5: listen to this --
speaker4: not now, jonah --
speaker5: just this one part, okay? "i have been an excellent third-baseman for as long as i or anyone else can remember, and i guarantee you will not get one past me"
speaker4: jonah, i'm leaving --

speaker1: dad! 
speaker2: everyone thinks brooks robinson is the greatest.
speaker1: it's a sign.
speaker2: oh, right.
speaker2: come here. i want to show you something.

speaker1: here is seattle. and here is baltimore. case closed. 
speaker2: she doesn't want us to go to baltimore. she wants to meet us in new york city on valentine's day. on top of the empire state building.
speaker1: perfect. we'll be there.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: you look good.
speaker2: you look good yourself.
speaker2: i thought you were never going to call me.
speaker1: you did?
speaker2: i really wanted you to call me, and i thought you were never going to --
speaker1: you could have called me --
speaker2: no way. no way i was going to be the first woman you went out with after... there is no percentage whatsoever in being the first woman anyone goes out with after...
speaker1: you are the first woman i'm going out with.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: so whatdya say? i'll get the check, and i'll call you in eight months.
speaker2: oh, you are funny -- we hear a click as the image freezes.

speaker1: tell me he's living in squalor. tell me everything he has is being repossessed, including his filthy, dented mobile home. 
speaker2: he's got a houseboat.
speaker1: i hate boats.
speaker2: it sounds nice.
speaker1: boats. you go out in them. you come back in them. i hate them.
speaker2: houseboats don't go anywhere.
speaker1: boats. all anyone talks about is the wind. is it up, is it down. i can't live with a man who only talks about the wind.
speaker2: it's not a boat boat. it's really a house.
speaker1: but it's on the water.
speaker2: it's on the lake right in the middle of seattle. it rains nine months of the year in seattle.
speaker1: i hope i don't have to pay for that piece of information.
speaker2: no, that's free. he's an architect. used to do big high-profile projects. he scaled it all back when his wife died. now he remodels people's homes. he works in a small firm, makes a good living.
speaker1: he's real.

speaker1: i figure we could go to new york, catch the knicks, and since we'd be there anyway, obviously we'd go to the empire state building -- 
speaker2: there she is.
speaker1: why is she bringing that bag?
speaker2: she's going to cook something for us?
speaker3: hi, sam. and let me guess -- you must be jonah.
speaker1: hi. he should book now because we can get an excursion fare. jessica's parents are travel agents and --
speaker2: not now, jonah.

speaker1: we can't finish the job. she's on her sixth painter, now she's thinking maybe she wants the fireplace rebricked -- 
speaker2: i know her pretty well. maybe i could call her --
speaker1: i've already solved it. i've hired a hit man.
speaker2: oh that is so funny, you are so funny.
speaker1: every time she wants to change something, she talks in this little baby voice -- "couldn't you just move the stairway a teeny tiny bit?"--
speaker3: do you like baseball?
speaker2: yes, i do. in fact, my firm has box seats for the mariners.
speaker3: what about camping?
speaker2: what about it?
speaker3: do you like it?
speaker2: i went camping once. i love to brush my teeth in a brook and floss with a weed.
speaker3: we ought to start camping again, dad.
speaker1: okay, tiger. time for bed.
speaker3: it's only ten o'clock.
speaker1: jonah!
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: thank victoria for dinner.
speaker3: thanks for dinner. i never saw anybody cook potatoes that way.
speaker1: i'm glad you liked it. good night, jonah.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: turn on your radio!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the kid is on. you've got me listening to this garbage.
speaker3: who is it?
speaker1: oh, it's just becky, she's having trouble with rich again. hold on, becky, i'm going downstairs.

speaker1: this is a complete disaster. i wanted him to find a wife, but he's got the wrong one -- 
speaker2: how am i going to explain this to walter?
speaker3: shhh, listen to this --
speaker4: shouldn't your father be the judge of whether she's right or wrong?

speaker1: is he there? 
speaker2: no. after he was born, every time we started to make love, he would cry. he had an uncanny sense of timing. we really shouldn't do anything here anyway.
speaker1: absolutely. right.

speaker1: come on, jonah -- 
speaker2: do something --

speaker1: jonah, you can't in here. 
speaker2: yes, i can.

speaker1: it's walter. 
speaker2: miss scarlett. in the broom closet. with the radio.
speaker3: i gotta go. i'll see you at work. walter, you scared me. don't ever do that again.
speaker4: don't ever do that again.
speaker5: i thought i saw a black widow spider. sam looks at victoria, shrugs. back to jonah.
speaker4: what are you doing up?
speaker5: i was thirsty.
speaker4: there's a bathroom upstairs.
speaker5: the water tastes better in the kitchen.
speaker4: that's true. why is that?
speaker3: becky heard this woman on the radio complaining about this guy she was sure was rick, which meant he was cheating on her. she was completely hysterical. then it turned out the woman lived in duluth.
speaker2: that doesn't make any sense.
speaker3: i know. it makes no sense at all. thank my life is in place.

speaker1: write her. 
speaker2: you think so?
speaker1: it's y. o. h.
speaker2: yeah. what's that?
speaker1: your only hope.
speaker3: i thought i would look into doing a story about those radio shows.
speaker4: you'd probably have to go somewhere to really look into it.
speaker3: definitely.

speaker1: get in the car right this minute. 
speaker2: i'll call you later.

speaker1: did you call that radio station again? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: everyone at work heard you.
speaker2: i just called for a second.
speaker1: long enough to call victoria a ho.
speaker2: it's a short word.
speaker1: this is not a joke. thank victoria doesn't know. it would really have hurt her feelings.
speaker2: if she knew, she'd never forgive me. it would be hopeless for the two of you.
speaker1: don't open your mouth again.

speaker1: couldn't you just do a phone interview? 
speaker2: not for the kind of place i want to do. i won't be in chicago that long.
speaker1: when you get back, i'll be gone --
speaker2: and then i'll see you in new york --
speaker1: okay, okay.

speaker1: this is captain foster welcoming you aboard flight 132 to seattle. our flying time today... 
speaker2: do you believe that any lie is a betrayal? that's what harold pinter says, but it seems to me it's a very harsh way of drawing the line.

speaker1: can i bring something back for you? a souvenir? does he like those little snow scenes? you know -- you shake them up and the snow floats down? 
speaker2: sure. i'd really like that.
speaker1: well...
speaker2: i think they're announcing your flight.
speaker3: he's ten.
speaker1: he's good at it.
speaker3: i read an article about this

speaker1: i read the same article... 
speaker2: it takes time --
speaker1: absolutely. when i come back, maybe the two of us should spend some time together, on our own. what do you think?
speaker2: sure. sure.
speaker2: jonah, this isn't fair. you don't know victoria. i hardly know her myself. she is, in fact, a mystery to me. she tosses her hair a lot. why does she do this? i have no idea. is it a twitch? does she need a haircut? should she use barrette so it doesn't keep falling in her face? these are things that i'm willing to get to the bottom of, and that is why i am dating her. that is all i am doing. i am not marrying her. can you appreciate the difference? that's what single people do, they try people on and they see if they fit. but nobody fits perfectly, everyone is an adjustment.
speaker3: was mom an adjustment?
speaker2: i'm never going to meet anyone who's going to measure up to your mom in your eyes? what do you think? there's a perfect woman walking around out there?
speaker2: there's no such thing as a perf --
speaker2: she's beautiful.
speaker3: victoria? she's okay.
speaker3: dad, i was talking to jessica about reincarnation, and she thinks that probably you knew annie in another life.
speaker2: who is annie?
speaker3: the one who wrote us.
speaker3: but jessica says you and annie never got together in that life, and your hearts are like puzzles with parts out of them and when you get together the puzzle's complete.
speaker2: dammit.
speaker3: the reason i know this and you don't is that i'm younger and purer so i'm more in touch with cosmic forces.
speaker2: i sincerely hope you are not going to marry jessica.

speaker1: hello, mr. baldwin? no. hello, sam? i'm annie reed. i'm annie reed. i'm annie reed. i'm annie reed. 
speaker1: i heard about you calling dr. fieldstone, and well, i just happened to be out here on...

speaker1: did you talk to him? 
speaker2: i couldn't do it. how did i get here?

speaker1: you told a lie and got on a plane. 
speaker2: that's not what i mean. i'm going back over there tomorrow and talk to him. i am.
speaker1: okay. good. goodbye.
speaker2: becky?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: is this crazy?
speaker1: no. that's the weirdest part about it.
speaker2: thank you. i love you.
speaker1: i love you, too.
speaker2: good night.

speaker1: it's wonderful to see you. 
speaker2: he's over at the boat show. he'll be by later. it's so beautiful here.

speaker1: lady, what the are you doing? 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: hello.

speaker1: how could i have been such an idiot? 
speaker2: you were standing in the middle of the street?

speaker1: you know that dream where you're walking down the street naked and everyone is looking at you? 
speaker2: i love that dream.
speaker1: that was nothing compared to this humiliation, nothing.
speaker2: but he saw you, right?
speaker1: he said hello.

speaker1: and what did you say? 
speaker2: all i could think of to say was hello.

speaker1: it's a sign -- 
speaker2: it's a sign i've watched this movie too many times. i'm so stupid. from the minute i listen to that stupid program on the radio, i've been a complete jerk.
speaker1: you don't know who she was, annie --
speaker2: i saw her. she looked just like this --
speaker1: this is a photo of hair.
speaker2: well, it's the same woman. and he was crazy about her. what is this? this is from seattle. she opens the letter. reads it.
speaker2: becky?
speaker1: so i mailed your letter.
speaker2: "dear annie: thanks for your letter. it was great. we're very excited about meeting you in new york on valentine's day and seeing if we are m.f.e.o.

speaker1: made for each other. 
speaker2: it's cute. it's like a little clue.
speaker2: so he can't write. big deal. i mean, verbal ability is a highly overrated thing in a guy, and our pathetic need for it is what gets us into so much trouble.
speaker1: i'm going to run back to walter's arms, if he's still have me.
speaker2: what about the letter?
speaker1: it doesn't mean anything. it was written before i went out there. before the ho.
speaker3: and pull back to reveal:

speaker1: you saw her in the airport and then here? 
speaker2: i tried to talk to her... it was like i knew her. weird.
speaker3: well, at least you're out there seeing people again. that's terrific.
speaker2: well, just one really.
speaker1: how's jonah taking it?
speaker2: it'll take him a while to come around. a month ago he called one of those radio call-in shows and told them i needed a wife --
speaker1: you're kidding --
speaker2: now that i'm seeing someone, it's a whole other thing.

speaker1: he's become obsessed with some woman who wrote me -- 
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: she wants to meet me at the top of the empire state building.
speaker3: it's a little derivative.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker3: "an affair to remember." did you ever see it? cary grant and deborah kerr. before that it was called "love affair with irene dunne and charles boyer."
speaker2: women love this movie.
speaker3: they met at the empire state building, only they didn't.
speaker2: what kind of person would write to someone they heard on the radio?
speaker1: i got hundreds of letters from women all over the country --
speaker2: desperate women --
speaker3: just because someone's looking for a nice guy doesn't make them desperate.
speaker2: how about rapacious and love- starved?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: it is easier to be killed by a terrorist --
speaker3: it is not --
speaker2: right, right.
speaker1: anyway, victoria's nice.
speaker3: would you follow her through an airport?
speaker1: look, i met somebody. she's good, and capable and smart. we hit it off. we can't spend your life chasing after fantasies.
speaker4: hi.
speaker1: hi. so far so good. so. what should we talk about? how insecure we were in high school. shirley votypka, the first girl i ever felt up. health. what about health? did you know that eating six macadamia nuts is the equivalent of eating a steak?
speaker4: shhhh -- she unbuttons her shirt. and they kiss.

speaker1: you're going to miss the train. 
speaker2: no, i'm not.
speaker1: what are your plans in new york?
speaker2: we're going to the rainbow room and the symphony tomorrow night.
speaker1: i love the symphony.
speaker2: i hate it. i'm so happy, becky. finally i feel happy. this is right. this is real. everything else is what happens when you watch too many movies and completely lose sight of what counts. please don't tell anyone about what happened. "sleepless in seattle" is history.

speaker1: this is the best movie i've ever seen in my life. 
speaker2: i don't get it.
speaker1: you have to go to her, jonah. you have to find her.
speaker2: do you know how much it costs to go to new york?
speaker1: nobody knows. it changes practically every day. how much money do you have?
speaker2: eighty dollars.
speaker1: i have forty-two. so that would definitely cover taxicabs, i think.
speaker2: but how am i going to get there?
speaker3: honey, i'm going out for a few minutes. could you keep an eye on things out front till i get back?
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: do you want an aisle or a window seat? 
speaker2: window.
speaker1: do you want a fruit plate?
speaker2: i don't know. do i?
speaker1: i'd rather die than eat on an airplane. i'm telling them you're twelve so you can fly unaccompanied and they won't make you be carried around by a stewardess and everything. jonah nods. now jessica takes a ticket form out of the desk and starts to fill it out for jonah.

speaker1: you go. 
speaker2: ever since christmas, you've been different. kind of distracted, distant. but i feel like you're coming back from wherever you were.
speaker1: i am. i was just... i just got... i think i got nervous. it's normal, right? don't you ever feel nervous about, you know?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: about forever.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, i did. and you know what i think? i think that it was almost... too perfect.

speaker1: it was like kismet but not, if you see what i mean. 
speaker1: you have to grow up. you can't have all these adolescent dreams about how exciting your life is going to be -- walter starting to look puzzled.
speaker1: don't hate me but i love this pattern.
speaker2: you couldn't.
speaker1: i do.
speaker2: it's just like my grandmother's china.
speaker3: how many place settings should i put down?
speaker4: ten.
speaker2: exactly. eight is too few and twelve is too many.

speaker1: walter. 
speaker2: it was my mother's.
speaker1: it's so beautiful. it's just what i would have picked out if i'd had every ring in the world to choose from. you see what i mean. there are people who would like a relationship to be full of surprises, but i am not one of them. surprises are highly overrated.

speaker1: have you seen my wallet? 
speaker2: it might be in the kitchen.
speaker1: i'm only going to be away one night, okay, and clarise will be here. you'll have a swell time. you'll watch a little geraldo, some nightmare on elm street 12, i'll never know.
speaker2: are you going with her?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: i have to have a life. i have to do things that i want with people my own age. it's none of your business who i am going out with. i don't give a good goddam if you're angry -- 
speaker2: this is the one i like.

speaker1: i don't care who you like. it's who i like. but the truth is you're never going to like anyone because it isn't your mother. sam throws a pair of socks into the suitcase. 
speaker2: fine. i won't say anything.
speaker1: thank you, jonah. but the point is, i am not asking permission.
speaker2: what's wrong with annie?
speaker1: shut up.
speaker2: shut up? shut up??? mom never did that. mom never said shut up to me. mom never yelled at me.
speaker1: this conversation is finished.
speaker2: you said we could go to new york.
speaker1: did not.
speaker2: did too.
speaker1: i can't know what i said, but we're not going.
speaker2: i'm not leaving this room until you say yes.
speaker1: get out.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: goddammit, i am sick of this

speaker1: put me down. i hate you, i hate you -- he throws jonah on the bed. jonah in tears. 
speaker2: i'm sick of this phony melodramatic i'm sick of it.

speaker1: jonah? clarise is here, okay? and i'm leaving. 
speaker1: jonah? he's probably still asleep. he opens the door gently to the room.

speaker1: jessica, this is not acceptable. 
speaker2: if you don't tell us right now, right this minute, i'm going to kill you. jessica rolls her eyes.
speaker3: he's on his way to new york.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: how?
speaker3: united 597.
speaker1: jessica!
speaker4: when does it leave?
speaker2: eight-thirty.

speaker1: here you go... here's a nice pin for you, for flying with us. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you're welcome. can i take that for you?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: he's about this high, 90 pounds, never combs his hair, mariner's hat --
speaker4: anyone check in a unaccompanied minor on the new york flight?
speaker5: i did.
speaker3: i'll kill him. i have to get to new york as fast as i can.
speaker4: we can get you on a flight to chicago and you can change planes --
speaker4: how will you be paying for this?
speaker3: american express. visa. i really am going to kill him.

speaker1: where to? 
speaker2: empire state building.

speaker1: what are you gonna do there, spit off the top? 
speaker2: no. i'm gonna meet... my mother.

speaker1: is something wrong. 
speaker2: may i get you a drink?
speaker1: some champagne?
speaker3: fine, fine.
speaker1: beautiful view, isn't it?
speaker3: walter, there's something i have to tell you --
speaker4: sorry, this is an emergency.
speaker4: empire state building.

speaker1: hi, i'm jonah. are you annie? 
speaker2: no. i'm cynthia.
speaker1: excuse me, are you annie?

speaker1: jonah is looking through the viewfinder. he turns 
speaker2: you're my family. you're all i've got. what if something happened to you?
speaker2: what if i couldn't get to you?
speaker3: i was scared of what you were gonna do.
speaker2: when i found you?
speaker3: if i didn't go.
speaker2: listen, have i ever done anything really stupid?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: i mean, so far, have i screwed it up for you?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: i can't believe you flew first class.
speaker3: it was all they had.

speaker1: i don't know what to say about it, walter. it was a form of temporary insanity. but i had to tell you about it because -- 
speaker2: -- it was a betrayal.
speaker1: yes. but it wasn't really. it was just...
speaker2: so what happened?
speaker1: i told you. nothing --
speaker2: at the top of the empire state building --
speaker1: i'm not at the top of the empire state building. i'm here.
speaker2: not really. look, annie, i love you. let's leave that out of it. i don't want to be someone you're settling for. i don't want to be someone anyone settles for. i have a life insurance policy, i'm fully invested in growth stocks, i have a paid subscription to home rox office, i have no sexual diseases, i have been steadily employed in a part of the economy that isn't soft, i have expectation in the way of inherited wealth, i dress nicely, i am a member of the private sector, an independent voter, i don't watch monday night football, the only thing wrong with me is that i am allergic to wheat, strawberries, penicillin, pollen, nuts and wool. there are plenty of women who see me as the brass ring. if you don't -- marriage is hard enough without bringing such low expectations into it, isn't it?
speaker1: oh, walter. i don't deserve you.
speaker2: i think that's what i'm saying.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: yes. some people will do anything to get out of going to a symphony.
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: look!

speaker1: last call. closing time. 
speaker2: this is pretty wasn't it?
speaker3: big deal.
speaker3: maybe we'll get a dog when we get back.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: what do you mean, okay?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: let's go home.
speaker4: sorry, ma'am, but the elevators are closed.
speaker5: no. please. i really need to get up there.
speaker4: we're closing up. no more runs tonight.
speaker5: listen, can i just take a look? maybe... maybe... there's someone i was supposed to meet... he's probably not there, but if i don't at least look i'll always wonder about it.
speaker4: cary grant, right?
speaker5: you know that movie?
speaker4: one of my wife's favorites.

speaker1: sorry, ma'am. empty. 
speaker2: can i take a minute?
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker3: i left it near the...
speaker4: it's you.
speaker2: it's me?
speaker4: the one in the street. i chased after you.
speaker3: are you annie?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: you're annie too?
speaker2: is this yours?
speaker3: i'm jonah. that's my dad. his name is sam.
speaker2: hi, jonah. sam. and who is this?
speaker3: howard.
speaker2: howard.

speaker1: we better go. annie nods. 
speaker1: shall we?
speaker2: sam?
speaker2: it's nice to meet you. on annie. on sam.

