speaker1: morning. 
speaker1: why the young executive look?
speaker2: i have my interview at nyu today.
speaker2: no way mom knows about that.
speaker1: and she never will. at least until after i'm married.
speaker2: didn't it hurt?
speaker1: like hell.
speaker2: piercings are so... unhygienic.

speaker1: morning, dad. 
speaker2: morning, baby.
speaker1: how's the book coming?
speaker2: well, sweety, my writing process is a lot like a giant hydroelectric dam. for a long time i just let the great ideas build up and build up until the sheer weight of them spills over and the words just come pouring out.
speaker1: still stuck, huh?
speaker2: not a word.
speaker1: another one for the trophy room, huh?

speaker1: boys can be fun. you should try one some time. 
speaker2: you ready for your interview?
speaker3: i've prepared a color-coded itinerary based on dividing the day into fifteen minute increments alternating blue/red, double- checked the train schedule, confirmed with the weather channel and rehearsed a couple of alternate scenarios last night, you know, just to account for all the possible glitches.
speaker1: we'll take that as a yes.
speaker4: i'm proud of you for sticking to your plan all these years, sweety.
speaker1: i still don't understand why you want to finish college in two years? what's the big hurry?
speaker3: i want to hit the ground running. all those football games and the partying and the whole dating scene. it just seems like a lot of wasted time that could be spent more productively.
speaker2: the accelerated program would look great on your med school application.
speaker1: football games i get. but partying? a waste of time?

speaker1: to each her own. 
speaker2: well, drew. i have a surprise.
speaker2: i took the day off. i'm going into the city with you.
speaker3: what -- ?!
speaker2: isn't that great! we can do some shopping, have lunch, real girl stuff. won't that be fun?
speaker4: if you want to have fun, i'm the one who should go, not mother teresa over there.
speaker4: let me know if you want me to do the heimlich. it'd be cool to have you owe me your life.
speaker2: you okay?
speaker3: no... i mean, it's... impossible. i've got every minute accounted for right up to the interview.
speaker2: i just thought... you know... i've been working and we haven't had a chance to spend much time together...

speaker1: ... and both my babies are going away to college next fall. 
speaker2: don't be sad, mom. just think, when drew leaves for school, you won't be losing a daughter, you'll be losing an anal-retentive social misfit who will be voted most likely to die a virgin.
speaker3: i'm sorry, mom. it's really sweet of you. but don't worry. parker will be living here with you forever since no college on earth will ever take her.
speaker1: stop it, you two.
speaker2: it's not fair you guys get to go into the city and i don't.
speaker4: don't you have a chem test, young lady?
speaker2: chemistry? please. name one time you ever used chemistry in your life.
speaker4: good point.
speaker1: i use chemistry every day.

speaker1: you're a doctor, mom. i'm not going to be a doctor. i can't even say the word 'orifice,' let alone put a finger up one. 
speaker2: time to go.

speaker1: come on, honey! let's tear up manhattan! 
speaker2: you're smart. you're resourceful. you'll find a way to make it work.

speaker1: doctor macleod... i'm sorry, but my itinerary is booked solid today. call dr. wessels. he's covering for me. he did? are you sure it's the baby's head? all right. i'm coming. 
speaker1: i'm sorry, hon. it's a blue light special in maternity. every bed's full and some poor woman is about to give birth in the gift shop. i have to go in.
speaker2: ah, darn it, mom. that's a shame. it's like fate is conspiring against us.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: you absolutely, positively have to promise me we'll do it another time.
speaker1: i promise. i better hurry. have parker drop you at the train station on her way to school, will you?

speaker1: kill 'em in that interview. 
speaker2: mom, you know, i might not get in.
speaker1: are you kidding me? you're drew macleod. nobody's smarter, nobody works harder and nobody, and i mean nobody, is ever more prepared.
speaker2: hey! stop!

speaker1: good luck with your interview. 
speaker2: you know, parker. chemistry is important. when you think about it, everything's made of chemicals.

speaker1: oh, i'm interested in chemistry. just not the kind with all the numbers and stinky test tubes. 
speaker1: ah, chemistry.

speaker1: what do you think you're doing? 
speaker2: looking for a seat.

speaker1: this can't be happening. wait, i know. this is one of those ground hog day dreams, isn't it? 
speaker1: ow! i'm awake now. you're supposed to disappear.
speaker2: you know, i just got this itch.
speaker1: then scratch it and get back to school.
speaker2: i couldn't concentrate anyway.
speaker1: you're permanently distracted. it's called attention deficit disorder. is this about that chat room guy? it is, isn't it?
speaker2: no! it's about spontaneity, which you obviously wouldn't know anything about.
speaker1: i swear to parker, you go through boyfriends like junior mints. it's pathetic.
speaker2: pathetic? you want to talk about pathetic?! at least i don't count getting accidentally felt up in dodge ball as my first date!

speaker1: is this any of your business? 
speaker1: this is ridiculous. i don't have time for this today. fine. don't graduate from high school. make a mess of your life over some complete stranger. i don't care. but leave me out. i have something important i need to accomplish today, so please go away.
speaker2: would you like this seat so you two can fight?
speaker3: no thank you.
speaker1: i have to mentally preview my day now. i can't talk anymore. parker turns to go, then remembers something.
speaker4: uh, drew? do you have any money? i don't have enough for a ticket.
speaker4: please. like you never ditched school.

speaker1: 'you don't know how you met me...' 
speaker1: excuse me.

speaker1: ticket, please. 
speaker2: why don't i save the b.s. story and just ask you to cut me a break this one time because i know you've got a big heart and you remember what it was like when you were young and... and... ... randy?

speaker1: very funny. 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: let's go.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: i tried to be nice about it, but if you want the police involved, this is the way to do it.
speaker2: police? i didn't do anything.
speaker1: no ticket, no train ride.
speaker2: no! that's not me! that was my twin sister you threw off!
speaker1: young lady, in thirty years i have heard every possible line but that's the lamest ever.
speaker2: she's right there!

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: i'm... ouch.
speaker3: she's fine, considering she should be in jail.
speaker2: this can't be happening! i have a... a... little paper thingy. what are they called? ticket! i have a ticket! it's right...
speaker4: you get kicked off, too? why didn't you just buy a ticket?

speaker1: don't. 
speaker2: what happened to your head?
speaker1: oh, just a minor concussion i sustained while the conductor was throwing me off the train because he thought i was you sneaking back on the train!
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: i'll bet.
speaker2: i am! where are you going?
speaker1: to see when the next train leaves.
speaker2: i already -- but drew's inside the stationhouse.
speaker2: -- did. they said something about a delay.

speaker1: that can't be. i have to be there before two! 
speaker2: well, maybe if you flap your arms real fast you can fly there, because you won't get there on a train.
speaker1: what did you just say?

speaker1: come on. hurry. i got us a ride. 
speaker2: let go of my arm.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: a car service.
speaker2: car service? you couldn't have called for a...
speaker3: morning, miss.
speaker1: good morning. thank you. my sister's coming, too.
speaker1: you want to make that interview, or not?

speaker1: so you're headed to the teamster's hall on second street? 
speaker2: you know, mister...
speaker2: ... loyola.
speaker1: bennie.
speaker2: mr. bennie? we have a slight change of itinerary. we need to go into manhattan. 57th and 5th will be fine.
speaker1: it's pre-paid. no skin off my nose.
speaker3: pre-paid? what's 57th and 5th?
speaker2: barneys.
speaker3: not barneys.
speaker2: we've got five hours. relax.
speaker3: this was supposed to be someone else's car, wasn't it?

speaker1: so? 
speaker2: 'scarpelli'? we're supposed to be italian?
speaker1: northern italian.
speaker2: this is so... wrong.
speaker1: what? you need to get to that interview. we now have a ride. we will pay for the ride. end of big deal.
speaker3: yeah? no. the city. what'a you talkin' about?
speaker3: i already got 'em.
speaker3: they're right here in the car. 'scuse me.

speaker1: not good. 
speaker2: what's happening?
speaker3: don't you think that's a little severe? i mean, they didn't see nothin' yet. they can't hear nothin'.
speaker3: you're the boss. take it easy. i'll fix it. no, i don't have a shovel. not today. it'll be a big mess. besides, i just had this suit cleaned.
speaker3: i'll take 'em to the wharf, what difference does it make?
speaker2: parker, i think maybe we should get out.
speaker1: i agree. how about... now!
speaker3: hey?! where you goin'?!

speaker1: he's stuck at the light! 
speaker2: he has no respect for traffic laws!

speaker1: parker peers over the top and out the window. 
speaker2: is he gone? i can't believe this.
speaker3: we lost him. wow. that was a rush.
speaker2: a rush? are you out of your mind?
speaker4: hey. give me a quarter, will ya?

speaker1: get outta here, uncle jerry! 
speaker2: parker, you're only feeding the poor man's disease. buy him a healthy snack.

speaker1: the homeless guy snags the dollar. 
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker3: ew. that stinks. that's not just slushee.
speaker4: it's mad dog. look at that mess. it's gonna smell up the store all day.
speaker3: may we use your bathroom please?
speaker4: gas station at the end of the block. have a nice day.

speaker1: you know, it's not my place to say, but you young girls got your whole lives ahead of you. you shouldn't be drinkin' at this hour of the day. 
speaker2: that's what i keep telling her.
speaker1: 'round the side.

speaker1: see? new york. we made it. 
speaker2: i could be arrested for vagrancy looking like this.
speaker1: listen. i've got an idea.
speaker2: no. no ideas. i'm going straight to that interview and wait, without moving or speaking, especially to you, for four hours.
speaker1: come on! we're going to the plaza! we can be eloise! we'll get a nice room, you can take a shower and i'll swap clothes with you! simple as that!
speaker2: do you have the slightest clue what that would cost?

speaker1: so? you've got the emergency credit card mom gave you, right? 
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: oh. my.
speaker1: where's your, uh, stuff?
speaker2: i left it in his car.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: he knows where i live. he's going to hunt me down and kill me.
speaker1: come on, drew. i don't think even the mafia kills people just for scamming a ride. quit being paranoid. so, we don't do the plaza. i've got...
speaker1: six dollars and thirty-two cents.
speaker2: that won't get me hosed down at a car wash.
speaker1: what are we thinking? you've got your secret-safety twenty!
speaker2: my secret-safety twenty. of course. but it's only for emergencies.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker1: hey, how'd you know about my secret-safety twenty?
speaker2: that's not important now. but let's just say that it's a good thing for you i think those shoes are so ugly i never borrowed them. hey, how about there?

speaker1: no. i want to get clean, not contract hepatitis. 
speaker2: twenty-six dollars and thirty-six cents.
speaker1: we touch nothing.

speaker1: keep your pants on. what'dya want? 
speaker1: i don't got all day.
speaker1: sixty bucks.
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: you want the room or not?
speaker3: sixty dollars an hour for this --
speaker2: -- really nice place. how much for half an hour.
speaker1: maybe if you two were in school you could figure out that half a sixty is thirty.
speaker2: we've only got twenty-five.

speaker1: you think because i'm short you can just charm me into making some deal, is that it? 
speaker2: no, not at all.
speaker3: it's all we have. twenty-six dollars and thirty-six cents.
speaker1: are you the one that stinks so bad?
speaker3: i had a little accident, okay?
speaker1: all right, all right, don't get your underwear in a bunch. as a public service, just 'cause you stink so bad, you can have it for twenty-five.
speaker1: ten-dollar deposit on key.
speaker3: what part of 'that is all the money we have' didn't make sense to you?
speaker2: sir, that's every last cent we have in the world. i swear to you, we aren't planning to steal your key.
speaker1: i give you some special deal, the next thing you know, you two are telling everybody, hey, this midget was a real sap. we gave him some sob story and the little guy just busted up into crocodile tears and handed over the key.

speaker1: i promise we won't tell anyone. 
speaker2: not a word. girl scout's honor.

speaker1: drew?! drew?! 
speaker2: come back with my key!

speaker1: did you see that? 
speaker2: honey? the baby? please?

speaker1: all right. who's the wise guy? 
speaker2: man, that little guy could really motor. why'd you bolt?
speaker3: there was a rat, parker. a rat the size of a doberman eating my foot.
speaker2: that was all our money.
speaker3: our money? our money?!
speaker2: key down, you're going to have an attack.

speaker1: parker, it was not 'our' money and this is not 'our' day in new york. what it is, is quite possibly the most important day of my life. i've resigned myself to the fact that you don't give a about what you do with yours, but if you could find it in your heart, your tiny, cold steel heart, to respect what this means to me, i would appreciate it. 
speaker1: you're not even listening. that's typical. look, we're splitting up. give me back my secret safety money.
speaker2: you know how i told you not to be paranoid?
speaker1: paranoid?
speaker2: what i meant was, it isn't paranoia if someone really is chasing you.
speaker1: what's wrong with your eyes?
speaker2: it's him.

speaker1: how'd he find us? 
speaker2: maybe it's just coincidence!
speaker1: or maybe we told him where we were

speaker1: come on! 
speaker1: jump!

speaker1: i don't want to do this anymore. i want to be done. no more rats, no more mob hit men. 
speaker2: well, cinderella, your wish has come true. voila, la plaza, mademoiselle.
speaker1: so? hello? no dinero?
speaker2: yeah. i've got what i'd like to call a 'creative solution' to that.
speaker1: no. i'm calling mom.
speaker2: what good will that do?
speaker1: i'll have her... uh...
speaker2: have her what? hi, mom? could you leave that baby halfway outta there and drive into the city?
speaker1: dad, then.
speaker2: dad, hey. drew. complete loser. couldn't get to an interview by myself, need full bail out. yeah. i'm the one who was going to change the world, i just couldn't get across town.

speaker1: it, parker, my itinerary is shot to hell! blue, red -- her watch alarm beeps. 
speaker1: i don't even know what that means! i'm running out of time. is that guy looking at me?
speaker1: don't look.
speaker2: when you ask a question like that, the person is going to look.
speaker1: i think he was.
speaker2: drew, we haven't done anything.
speaker1: yeah, but i'm standing in the lobby of the plaza looking like a deranged street person who might attack at any moment. in fact, i might attack at any moment.
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: what are we doing? and why am i whispering? 
speaker2: we're getting you a shower. blake greer pulled this at the sheraton after the prom.
speaker1: great. now we're emulating blake greer, voted most likely to commit a felony before having to shave.
speaker2: we're not going to steal anything. we're just going to sneak in, use a little soap and water and get out.
speaker1: oh, we're not going to steal anything. super. just a little 'breaking and entering.'
speaker2: we're not going to break anything. we are going to enter, however.
speaker1: no. no. no.
speaker2: shhh... here comes somebody.

speaker1: hurry up! 
speaker2: no!
speaker1: i didn't want to have to do this, but... look in the mirror behind you.

speaker1: i can't do this. 
speaker2: drew, you're not a criminal. you just smell like one. this way.

speaker1: oh, no. oh my a... a... what the is it? 
speaker2: a dog?
speaker1: i'm itching already. see? are my arms red?
speaker2: key down. i'll take him in the living room and keep a lookout. you just get in that shower.
speaker2: hi, little guy. you don't look so tough, huh? you don't look much like a dog, actually. more like woody woodpecker. happy to give the company, the emperor practically jumps into parker's arms.
speaker2: you're cute, aren't you, in a freakazoidal kinda way.
speaker2: was your daddy a rat? is that it? well, i still like you.

speaker1: wow. thank you. 
speaker2: thank you. bye bye. no.
speaker1: that's not your dog! hey!

speaker1: there's a man in there! 
speaker2: somebody took the dog!

speaker1: hurry up! 
speaker2: i'll, uh, go around.
speaker1: are you out of your mind?! it's only a little ways! jump!

speaker1: when competing in a dog show, best to bring one's dog along, yes? 
speaker2: i thought you had him, dear.
speaker1: see? empty.
speaker1: oh, dear

speaker1: mrs. lo biancho? i'm mort sestero, hotel security. 
speaker2: please! please help!
speaker1: someone took your baby?
speaker3: the emperor is missing.
speaker1: the emperor is a dog, right?
speaker2: not 'a' dog, no. the new york

speaker1: this is remote one to base, remote one to base. code 12, i repeat, code 12. 
speaker2: you goin' to lunch already, morty?
speaker1: code 12 isn't lunch, bruce!
speaker2: i will.
speaker3: call nypd. we have a dognapping.
speaker2: a what?

speaker1: just call the police and patch me through. the emperor's been kidnapped. 
speaker2: holy cripes, why didn't you say it was political?!
speaker1: political? the emperor is a dog,

speaker1: you want me to call nypd about a dog? 
speaker2: i am going to kill you, then fire you, bruce. got it? kill, fire.

speaker1: i can't do it! 
speaker2: yes you can!

speaker1: no i can't! 
speaker2: have fun in prison. under 'summer internships' on your college application, you can write 'license plate manufacturing.'

speaker1: get out of there! 
speaker2: stop! bring back that dog!
speaker3: he thinks we have the dog!
speaker1: a painter took it!
speaker3: a pain --

speaker1: you know, one of us is gonna get hurt if we keep doing this. 
speaker2: hey, complete stranger! get off my sister!
speaker3: i'm, uh, late for this place, thing, where i'm supposed to be.
speaker1: where at?

speaker1: where are they?! no more breaks! do you hear me! we have a show to do, you nitwits! models! bah! you have hollow gourds for heads! the kind they make those mexican rattles out of! 
speaker2: maracas.
speaker1: maracas! maracas that take coffee breaks when i am paying them a

speaker1: hair! makeup! daywear! clubbing! vite! 
speaker1: is that helmut lang? go!

speaker1: why does this not surprise me? 
speaker1: excuse me, but i'm supposed to be going to my college interview.
speaker2: that's rich. a model going to college. what next? talking monkeys?

speaker1: perfect. 
speaker2: is this what they call 'returning to the scene of the crime'?

speaker1: i assure you, mr. and mrs. lo biancho, the plaza will do everything in its power to see that the emperor is safely returned and that the criminals are brought to justice. 
speaker2: justice?! i want them executed! tortured first, slowly, and then beheaded!
speaker1: the plaza's policy is of course to serve you in any capacity we can.
speaker3: park...

speaker1: where'd they go? 
speaker2: they couldn't have gone very far. we'll split up. you go that way! you take fifth! come on, get on your horse!
speaker3: coffee?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: two black.
speaker2: where do you think those two went?
speaker3: beats me. they didn't have any stupid dog with them from what i could see.
speaker2: might have stashed it.

speaker1: maybe they ate it. 
speaker1: the rent-a-cop said the mutt's worth like 50 g's. that makes it grand theft, my friend. five to ten.

speaker1: hey, speedy. you didn't see a couple of blondes run past here, did you? 
speaker2: yep. couldn't miss 'em. real criminal types. looked like they were headed to mexico.
speaker1: that's where they all go.

speaker1: see you around. 
speaker2: not if i see you first.
speaker3: i say we put abbott and costello on the ransom watch. i don't want to be stuck in the same room all day with leona helmsley's nasty stepsister.

speaker1: whew. you know, it's not some old wives' tale about blind people having an acute sense of smell. 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: so? what did you do with that dog?
speaker2: we didn't steal it, i swear.
speaker3: a painter did.
speaker1: you girls best give yourselves up and tell 'em the story.
speaker2: he's right, parker.
speaker3: of course he's right. we're going to march in there and give ourselves up right this minute. they will, of course, take us down to the precinct, call mom and dad, we'll give our statement, they'll grill us under hot lights for a few hours, force us to confess with some tricky good cop/bad cop routine and the next thing you know we're doing five to ten in attica.
speaker2: so we'll turn ourselves in right after the interview.
speaker1: may i make one suggestion?

speaker1: sure. 
speaker2: hit the showers before you do anything else.
speaker3: we're facing felony charges, parker. maybe you can do your on- line flirting later. better yet, he can see you during visitor's hours.

speaker1: oh my warren works in the city. 
speaker2: warren? warren?! so you lied, right to my face. no, drew, this isn't about the chat room guy. nah!
speaker3: take your daughters to work day.

speaker1: knock it off, drew! this guy might be able to help. he lives here. 
speaker2: parker, you have completely lost your mind if you can be thinking about boys at a time like this!

speaker1: the united nations? 
speaker2: you can't possibly know somebody who works at the united nations. maybe he meant united sub sandwiches. or united skate rats store.

speaker1: parker pockets the blackberry. 
speaker2: so. we're going to the united nations to use the restroom.
speaker3: how convenient. you arrange a little date while your sister's future hangs in the balance.
speaker2: look, he said he'd help and it's only a couple blocks away. you got a better idea?

speaker1: coast's clear. 
speaker2: thank you, mr. speedy.
speaker1: you're quite welcome. good luck in that interview.
speaker3: wal-mart? hey, marvin. you bet. typing away.
speaker3: today? gee, i'm on a real roll, marv. the juices overfloweth, if you get my meaning. don't want to plug the juices when they're overflowing, right? how much? hm. i guess i could carve out some time.

speaker1: what are those? 
speaker2: rumaki, ma'am.
speaker1: rumaki! yech! you might as well wrap dog turds in bacon. take them away.
speaker3: andrea, andrea. how dreadful! i shudder to think how the poor emperor may be suffering.
speaker1: dear babs. i'm at wit's end.
speaker1: you! tell the thieves i'll pay anything they want! anything!
speaker3: of course. what price on a loved one?
speaker1: precisely!
speaker3: i've got to run. that stupid groomer used a commercial conditioner on coco and she looks like trailer trash.
speaker1: i'll give them ten grand, tops, but only if the dog's back before show time.

speaker1: we're going to make it, drew. you'll see. there's still plenty of time. you'll get cleaned up, we can trade clothes... this is a nice suit, huh? right? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you're going to get accepted, then we can explain the misunderstanding about the dog to the police and everything will be okay.
speaker2: maybe after the police forgive us for sneaking into someone else's hotel room, we can ask them to please keep the mob hit man from whacking us and dropping us into the marina so he doesn't get his suit dirty.
speaker1: first things first.
speaker2: parker, i know you're trying to cheer me up, but i have to be honest. this is all your fault.

speaker1: my fault? my fault?! i didn't mean for any of this to happen! 
speaker2: yeah, right! like you didn't mean to ask bernie lipscomb to the prom!
speaker1: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker2: i'll bet that was just another accident of yours that happened to screw up my life!
speaker1: bernie lipscomb? you...?
speaker1: you liked bernie, too?
speaker2: you know i did!
speaker1: no i didn't. i haven't seen you talk to a guy since we were in kindergarten and we thought jerry wester was a girl.
speaker2: you asked bernie just to snake him from me!
speaker1: i did not! wow, the really spooky thing is, that would mean we liked the same guy. a block away, the united nations building stands majestically against the sky.

speaker1: isn't that those two right there? 
speaker2: i'll be

speaker1: where the did they go? 
speaker2: 605 to base. we spotted the dognapping suspects, corner of 1st and 49th.
speaker3: copy that, 605.

speaker1: 605, do you still have visual? 
speaker2: negative. but they can't be far.
speaker3: that's over by the u.n.
speaker1: see if you can pick them up. we're on our way.

speaker1: there they are. 
speaker2: -- just a glimpse as they enter the building.

speaker1: do you see him? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i can't tell you how much i've looked forward to this. 
speaker2: momma?
speaker1: sorry. my mistake.
speaker3: oh, what now?
speaker4: warren? does anyone know warren collier?

speaker1: parker? 
speaker2: gee, warren. isn't that strange? i didn't recognize you from your picture.
speaker1: yeah, i, uh...
speaker3: we don't have time for this now.
speaker2: do you have an office or someplace private we could go?
speaker1: i just have to do this tour and...
speaker3: we'll get back to that.
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker2: it's important.
speaker1: okay. let me get somebody to cover for me.

speaker1: angie? take the 11:00. 
speaker2: you owe me, warren.
speaker3: are you a lying sack, or what?
speaker4: what was i supposed to do? i liked you. if i'd sent a real picture, would you have met me?
speaker3: that's not the point.
speaker4: that means no. at least this way i got to see you before you blow me off.
speaker1: no one is blowing you off, warren. as a matter of fact, we're very happy to see you, aren't we, parker?
speaker3: i guess.
speaker1: and we're grateful for your help.
speaker3: this is my sister, drew.
speaker4: not-a-twin, huh?

speaker1: that's a joke. 
speaker2: yeah, well. i guess everybody would like the world to see them a little bit differently than they are.
speaker3: super. now that that's all settled, is there a restroom i can get to without going out there?
speaker2: what's wrong with going out there?
speaker1: police, for one thing.
speaker2: police? i thought you guys were joking.
speaker1: it's the kind of joke that will be a lot funnier a few years from now.
speaker2: well that door's the only way out. there's a restroom at the end of the main hall.
speaker3: they there?
speaker1: i don't see 'em.

speaker1: what'd you guys do, anyway? mug a couple supermodels? 
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: hey! you two! stop! 
speaker2: this way!

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: ohhh... i'm so sick. the mussels at lunch. you have to help me.

speaker1: i'm kind of in my own private right now. 
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker1: drew.
speaker2: drew... it's vitally important.
speaker2: please. you have to take this to canada.
speaker1: uh, canada? it's sort of far away.
speaker2: in the assembly. give the file to mr. wakefield, the canadian representative.
speaker2: please. i can't... get up.
speaker1: you want me to take this to the canadian representative to the united nations?
speaker2: hurry! this is a crisis!
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: where's the assembly?
speaker2: to the left. run!

speaker1: he's gone. 
speaker1: you have nice breath.
speaker2: thank you. maybe we should get out of this sack.

speaker1: impossible! this would be globally destabilizing! 
speaker2: hah! posturing and rhetoric!

speaker1: sir? 
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: oh, no. you didn't have the mussels at lunch, too, did you?

speaker1: well, i'm not certain... 
speaker1: ... that i need to defend our position! ah, yes, some knowing nods.
speaker2: is she new?
speaker3: beats me.
speaker2: she's hot.
speaker3: weird hairdo.

speaker1: that is absurd! 
speaker2: absurd?!

speaker1: how are we going to find drew? 
speaker2: something tells me that won't be too tough.

speaker1: and besides, who said absurd is necessarily bad? sometimes absurd is good! for instance, absurd can be sort of... funny! in conclusion, i propose that all of you should talk amongst yourselves. thank you. 
speaker2: canada has proposed further debate.
speaker3: the united states of america seconds the motion!

speaker1: jin zshe miya brad pitt! 
speaker1: dingo cashito, brad pitt ezukai!
speaker2: you speak japanese?
speaker1: i may not look like an underwear model, but i'm smarter than a hundred of them put together.
speaker1: come on!
speaker2: we don't have any money!
speaker1: i'm smart and rich!

speaker1: follow that... uh... 
speaker2: they're following us, parker!
speaker1: oh, yeah. just go!
speaker3: maybe we should give them a little leash and see what they do with it.
speaker4: fine. but we're gonna have to stop for lunch pretty soon, 'cause i'm getting heartburn. they pull into traffic, following the cab.
speaker1: excuse me, what were you doing?
speaker2: someone was sick in the bathroom and they asked me to -- hold on, i don't owe you any explanation.
speaker1: you're the one all 'i gotta get to this interview or i'm gonna have a nervous breakdown' and yet you have time to address the united nations?

speaker1: you know, technically, you have to have security clearance to enter the assembly. 
speaker2: not now, warren.
speaker3: you have a lot of nerve, parker. it was you that got me tossed off the train! you had to give the that dollar! you get the suit, i get the leather bikini!
speaker1: which isn't so bad.
speaker3: and you got bernie lipscomb while i got scrabble with mom and dad!
speaker1: who's bernie lipscomb?
speaker2: i told you, i didn't know you liked him! it was no big deal!
speaker3: it was to me!
speaker2: how could i know? you never tell me anything!
speaker3: there's a good reason for that!
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker3: you know very well what it means, ms. big mouth!
speaker2: big mouth?! ooh, i hope you miss that stupid interview!

speaker1: oh yeah? well, the joke's on you, because there isn't any interview! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: no interview. i screwed up.
speaker2: you screwed up what?
speaker1: scheduling the interview. you deaf?
speaker2: you're drew. drew doesn't screw anything up, let alone scheduling. you're the iron chef of scheduling.
speaker1: i missed the deadline.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: after they made the first cut from the preliminary application, we were supposed to send in a form to secure our interview time and i filled it out and had everything ready to go in the mailbox and then...
speaker2: and then what? earthquake?
speaker1: i forgot.
speaker2: forgot?

speaker1: yes. i just forgot. when i found it in my bag a week later, i'd missed the deadline. 
speaker2: so today? all this? what are you doing?
speaker1: i... i was going to try to meet professor spaulding and...
speaker2: you were just going to jump him?
speaker3: sort of a guerilla interview? you know, i'm a big michael moore fan...
speaker1: i called and the secretary said there were no exceptions to the deadline so i was going to try to see him when he finished the other interviews. i knew it was hopeless, but... i was so... embarrassed.
speaker1: oh, to with it.
speaker2: drew?! drew, get back in this taxi!
speaker3: she's pretty upset.

speaker1: gee, you really are a genius. 
speaker1: talk about spontaneous.

speaker1: darn it! darn it darn it darn it! 
speaker1: that's... that's the painter.

speaker1: did one of them just get out? 
speaker2: i think so. maybe she's going for the dog.
speaker1: maybe that's what they want us to think.
speaker2: so we stay with the taxi?

speaker1: unless you want to hoof it after the other one. 
speaker2: we stay with the taxi.

speaker1: get in the back, will ya? 
speaker1: stupid dog.

speaker1: mrs. lo biancho calmly answers her cell phone. 
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: if you want to see your dog alive again, listen closely. i want a hundred thousand dollars transferred into this numbered swiss account --

speaker1: -- i'll give you ten grand but only if he's in madison square garden in... 
speaker1: one hour. take it or leave it.
speaker1: you have one minute to decide.

speaker1: where'd she go? 
speaker2: i think she took a right up there.
speaker1: follow my sister.
speaker3: i thought we were the ones being followed.

speaker1: stay flexible, will you please? 
speaker2: yesss?
speaker3: okay. here's how we make the --
speaker2: -- first of all, you forgot to disguise your voice.
speaker3: it!
speaker2: secondly, my husband will meet you in ten minutes on the corner of 43rd and broadway. he'll have the money. bring the dog.
speaker3: but that's ridiculous! you'll just bring the police! no way!
speaker2: fine.
speaker3: don't hang up!
speaker2: the police, it appears, have other priorities, like humans or something. and i assure you, the hotel security... people... will not interfere. in any case, little man, we just want the dog back before showtime, do you understand?

speaker1: okay. 
speaker2: ciao.
speaker1: no wonder you look so happy. as far as you're concerned, you've escaped from the wicked witch of the west.

speaker1: knock it off. 
speaker1: hey! give me that dog!

speaker1: excuse me? 
speaker2: i can't stop! i have to return this dog!
speaker3: i'll be right back!

speaker1: uh, isn't that your sister? 
speaker2: it can't be. she's terrified of dogs.
speaker3: i'm telling you, i got a hunch these girls don't have anything to do with this dog. drew blows past them, holding the emperor. the

speaker1: officer?! officer?! 
speaker1: officer?!

speaker1: no entry without official credentials! 
speaker2: i'm emile lo biancho! i demand to be let in!
speaker3: nypd! move aside!
speaker1: i'll have to see identification, officers. i'm so sorry, mr. lo biancho. go right in. at the corner, parker and warren keep their distance, not wanting to be seen by the detectives.
speaker4: you think she made it?
speaker5: she's faster than she looks.

speaker1: isn't that the emperor, ma'am? 
speaker2: good he's mauve.

speaker1: please! i'll get hives! oh, go ahead. 
speaker2: the detectives appear above her.
speaker3: she holds up the emperor.
speaker1: i, uh, just wanted to return him.
speaker4: flog her! step aside and i'll whip her myself!
speaker5: didn't you say it was a man who called, dear?
speaker4: so she had an accomplice! we'll beat the information out of the little wench! get him cleaned up, emile.
speaker1: i didn't take her dog, i swear.
speaker6: we'll sort it out.

speaker1: what now? 
speaker2: we have to go to the jail and tell them what happened.
speaker1: what on earth did happen?
speaker2: poor drew. she wanted to get into that program more than anything in the world.
speaker3: you goin' somewhere?
speaker1: hello, sir.
speaker2: oh my please don't kill me!
speaker1: kill?

speaker1: we don't know anything at all! we didn't see anything or hear anything and i'll swear to that in a court of law! 
speaker1: just not in the face.
speaker2: what's the big idea? you two a couple a nutbags or somethin'?
speaker1: nut bags? no. i mean, yes. is there a right answer to that? see, my sister had this interview which turned out not to be an interview, really and i sort of messed things up because i wanted to meet him.
speaker3: really? you came into town just for me? wow.
speaker1: not now, warren. drew was going to be late even though technically she wasn't going to be late since there wasn't an interview and that's when we got in your car. i promise we meant to pay. it was a true emergency.
speaker2: i meant, why you runnin' when i'm trying to give you your bag back?
speaker1: you were just...?

speaker1: i found your mom's number in the book. she said you needed it pretty badly for that big interview. listen, i gotta go. it's my mother-in-law's birthday and i gotta plant some stupid rose bush and then take her out to dinner at the pier. see ya around. 
speaker2: thank you?
speaker3: well, he certainly is a good samaritan.
speaker3: you guys lead a pretty interesting life, don't you?
speaker3: we going to the jail, or what?
speaker2: what time is it?

speaker1: i love your outfit. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: is it bobo?
speaker2: yes, as a matter-of-fact, it is.
speaker1: he's a genius.

speaker1: try to keep up, warren! 
speaker2: hey! i'm an intellectual! i never claimed to be athletic!

speaker1: do you mind? i'm a fanatic for jimmy choo. 
speaker2: it's all yours.
speaker3: macleod?
speaker3: you're free to go.
speaker2: no thanks. i'll just stay here with the girls.
speaker3: an eyewitness says he saw who took the dog. didn't realize the guy was stealing it until he saw us grab you.

speaker1: there's your alibi. 
speaker2: i don't even know him.
speaker1: that's what he said. go home. get cleaned up, a good night's sleep. none of this will seem so bad in the morning. hogan leaves them alone. bike guy steps over.
speaker3: you okay?
speaker3: i'm jim wessler.
speaker2: thanks, jim. how'd you know?
speaker4: who could forget that face?
speaker2: huh. no hives.
speaker2: well... bye.
speaker4: wait. where are you going?
speaker2: thanks for getting me out of jail but i have to go home now because my entire life is ruined.

speaker1: bad day, huh? 
speaker2: you turn understatement into an art.
speaker1: can you just tell me your name?
speaker2: i'm drew macleod. the girl who won't be going to the nyu accelerated program.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because short of flying, there's no way to get from here to nyu in five minutes.
speaker1: sure there is.

speaker1: wow. and i thought i was anal. 
speaker2: this is no good. i don't do too well with the whole rehearsal thing. i'm more of a 'wing it' person.

speaker1: how's this look? drewish? 
speaker2: you know, i've always had a thing for librarians.
speaker1: warren, honesty is fine. but you could edit a little, you know?
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: wish me luck.
speaker2: good luck, drew.

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: i'm here to see professor spaulding.
speaker1: you don't have an appointment.
speaker2: um, no. however...

speaker1: professor spaulding? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: may i have a moment of your time?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i have a plane to catch.
speaker1: i know. but this is very important.
speaker2: what is this about?
speaker1: life and death, if you must know.
speaker1: i'm drew macleod.
speaker2: ms. macleod, i hope this is interesting.
speaker1: trust me.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: fine.
speaker2: wait right there. i mean, i don't want to be bossy. you don't have to stay right there, if you don't want to.
speaker1: i'll be right here.
speaker2: great.

speaker1: ms. macleod, i recall your application being one of the strongest we received. not seeing your name on the interview list surprised me. i assumed, of course, that you'd changed your mind. 
speaker2: no. not at all. this program is my number one priority.
speaker1: yes, well, i'm sure you can appreciate that with so many applicants for so few spaces there must be rules to govern the selection process.
speaker3: professor spaulding? i can't apologize enough for barging in like this.
speaker1: no. please. it looks like i'm taking the red-eye now anyway.
speaker3: parker?
speaker2: hi, parker.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: oh, the professor and i have had a wonderful talk about how important this program is to me and how it was my sister, drew, who screwed things up.
speaker3: i'm having a little trouble following this.
speaker1: you were... being me?
speaker2: when i saw them take you to jail...
speaker3: jail?
speaker2: ... i didn't think you'd make it. i knew i wouldn't be any good at it, but i figured at least there was a chance.
speaker1: that's... sweet.
speaker2: you're not mad?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'm so sorry for today.

speaker1: it's okay. but let's talk about it later. 
speaker2: please. go right ahead.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker1: parker, consider, just for a moment, whether this is the appropriate time and place.
speaker3: okay, i considered. what i want to say is, i didn't purposefully set out to ruin your day, but that doesn't mean i'm not a little...
speaker1: jealous?
speaker3: i'm not like you. i don't have your intensity, your focus, your...
speaker2: fashion sense?
speaker3: i just mean, maybe, even if i don't intend to, maybe that jealousy, you know, gets in the way sometimes.
speaker1: you mean subliminally you're undermining me?
speaker3: i don't know if i'd get that technical about it. but yeah.
speaker1: well, thank you for saying that.
speaker3: you're welcome. aren't you going to confess now?

speaker1: confess what? 
speaker2: there's got to be something. like how you lost your shoes?
speaker3: how you're secretly jealous of me?
speaker1: why would i be jealous of you?
speaker3: oh, let me see. because i don't have a stick up my butt? because i know how to have fun? because i'm spontaneous and creative and men are all my love slaves?
speaker1: nope.
speaker1: well, maybe about the love slaves.
speaker1: professor, i'm drew macleod.
speaker2: are you certain?
speaker1: i wanted more than anything in the world to be a part of your program. i still do. but i failed. i didn't follow the rules. and honestly, before today, i didn't know how i was going to live with that. how to live with failure. i'm not good at it. i haven't done it much. but today i realized that i've lived in fear of it too long.

speaker1: ... and lighten up. 
speaker1: thanks for your time. sorry if you missed your plane.
speaker2: it was worth it, i assure you. now, could you clear up one thing for me?
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: what's this about jail?

speaker1: sis? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: gotta go.
speaker3: hi, baby!
speaker3: i was in the city. i tried to call you. thought you might want a ride home.
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: is that a new outfit?
speaker2: yeah. hey, one minute, 'kay?
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker4: you're welcome.
speaker2: i, uh...

speaker1: you want to maybe... get together? 
speaker2: first i want to take a shower. for about a week.
speaker2: call me, okay?
speaker1: you have a card? aren't you in high school?
speaker3: oh, man. i'm doomed. i'll never get home before them.
speaker4: sure you will.
speaker4: dad? hey. i need a favor.

speaker1: warren, something tells me you're spoiled! 
speaker2: yes! but in a good way!

speaker1: girls? 
speaker1: how naive do you think i am?
speaker2: we, uh, don't think you're naive, mom.
speaker3: no. honestly, it was all an accident.
speaker1: i know what this is.
speaker1: parker, i'm disappointed you'd do something like this without consulting me, but drew? what got into you? do you know how unhygienic those places are?
speaker3: it was... spontaneous.
speaker1: yeah. obviously. oh, by the way...
speaker1: this came in the mail.
speaker2: so? open it.

speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: it doesn't really matter one way or the other. maybe i shouldn't be in such a hurry. why don't we go out and have some fun. besides, if this isn't good news, i don't want it to ruin our night.
speaker3: so, how'd you two meet the girls?
speaker4: a dance/a class.
speaker3: dance class, huh? stupid me. i figured it had to be that day in new york when parker blew off her chem test and drew was in jail.
speaker3: chips?

