speaker1: your mother okay? 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: don't you do this boy. don't you ever touch it, you hear me?
speaker1: you hear me, goddam it?
speaker1: what do you want for christmas?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: you don't know?? you gotta know what you want, boy, if you ever expect to get it.
speaker2: daddy!!
speaker3: niggers... niggers...

speaker1: officer leland? you know the difference between a black man and nigger? 
speaker1: yeah, most don't.
speaker1: nice to meet you.

speaker1: so, winston, what's the difference between a black man and a nigger? 
speaker2: who the do you think you're talking to?
speaker1: thanks for coming in.

speaker1: the nigger's the one who falls for your 
speaker2: gerald carver, united states district attorney. call me gerry.

speaker1: he ought to be wearing a sign. 
speaker2: you can tell he's a cop? stevens laughs: it's obvious.
speaker1: he keeps looking for his back-up. now, the other guy knows it, too.
speaker2: then why's he taking him to the room?
speaker1: to rip him off.
speaker1: too late.
speaker3: oh, bobby... jesus... get an ambulance -- and back up. now!
speaker1: who is he?
speaker2: charles taft. lapd narcotics.
speaker1: he's a good cop.
speaker2: he's a great cop. two [names citation] and a [another citation]. as tough as they come and twice as honest.
speaker1: but the cops aren't getting it done here, are they? gotta try something new...
speaker1: who's john hull?
speaker2: you are. if you want to be. most undercover guys don't know what they're doing because it's a day gig. i need somebody who goes under and stays there; six months, a year, five years...
speaker1: what does he have to do?
speaker2: buy drugs. sell drugs. feed me information.
speaker1: he's a snitch.
speaker2: he's a drug dealer. a criminal. a scumbag. but for the right side. i want you to come to los angeles on loan to the justice department as a federal agent. your experience there will be credited toward your seniority here. and you'll come back to cleveland a p3 or higher.
speaker1: i can't do that. i've got a wife and kids.
speaker2: you're separated from your wife, she's filled for divorce. you see your kids every other weekend.
speaker1: all my life i've stayed away from that stuff. i've never touched drugs.
speaker2: come on, a little grass...?
speaker1: not grass. not nothing. i never even had a drink. never have, never will. you don't understand. i made a choice in my life.
speaker2: what's to understand? you saw your father killed when you were ten, and you decided you wouldn't be like that. i'm i know everything. you wanted to be a good boy, so you became a cop. hiding out in uniform... that's why you got the hard-on for taft.
speaker1: it's not that simple.
speaker2: i'll tell the truth, joe. you're never going to be a taft.
speaker1: i don't believe that.
speaker2: you ever take a look at your psychological profile? you score almost like a criminal. "resents authority..."
speaker1: i do not.
speaker2: "...exaggerated moral standards, but with no underlying value system." look at the anger, the repressed violence, it's almost off the scale...
speaker1: let me see that...
speaker2: why'd you join the force?
speaker1: i wanted to be of use.
speaker2: well, now you can be. you won't be taft, but maybe you'll be something more... interesting. there's a man named ramon gallegos who supplies 60% of the cocaine to the west coast. he's smart, smooth, and sufficiently elusive that we don't even have an adult photograph of him. however, his uncle is hector guzman, an important latin american political figure. gallegos uses uncle's connections to get product into the country, and everyone we've sent after him has ended up like that...
speaker1: why would i be different?
speaker2: you already are, that's the point... you've got the ability and the personality to go underground and blend in completely. that's what the others couldn't. some part of them showed. that's why they're dead. see, there's only one rule in this game.
speaker2: don't blow your cover.

speaker1: joe-j, carmen... 
speaker1: what were you doing with those kids?
speaker2: playing...
speaker1: your mom lets you play with them?
speaker2: yes, sir... yes, sir.
speaker1: i thought we talked about this. the older brother up there's got a sheet with --
speaker3: lay off it. they're just kids...
speaker4: hey, joe.
speaker1: tito...

speaker1: they're real nice, honey. is that a horse? 
speaker2: daddy! it's a bunny...
speaker2: i don't want you to go away, daddy.
speaker1: it's my work. i've got to.
speaker1: what happened to you there, baby?
speaker2: tito did it.
speaker1: he hit you?! it, what's he doing touching her? i'm gonna...
speaker3: she was running behind his chair when he got up. it was an accident. a complete... total... accident.

speaker1: whatta you got? 
speaker2: nickel rock, dime rock. excellent
speaker3: squeals to a stop opposite the dealer.
speaker4: what the i tell you about being here?
speaker2: no, wait...
speaker4: too late.
speaker4: get down, motherfuckers!

speaker1: who is he?... why'd they shoot him?... ivy did him, man... he's in the wrong place... that poor boy... get his beeper... 
speaker2: he done done, ain't he?

speaker1: how's it going, john? 
speaker2: i'm in there.
speaker3: "where's the queen," said the king. "she's in bed with laryngitis." "is that still in town?... the queen," said the king, and ten thousand knights straaaained at their utmost... pina colada times two and a white wine. he goes on muttering under his breath, tapping his foot like any crankhead. he notices hull, greets him as someone he can't place but knows he's seen around.
speaker3: how you doin', dudley...
speaker2: john.
speaker3: john, man, right...

speaker1: eddie something... a motormouth... he supplies the street dealers... buys from him... david elias... who apparently buys from a guy named barbolla or something. but i haven't seen him. 
speaker2: barbosa, felix.
speaker1: there was also a woman, but she's not here. i saw a kid killed. twelve, thirteen at the most. turf war.
speaker2: get to elias. then to barbosa.
speaker1: you can't rush this stuff.
speaker2: rush it, please. i want art, john, not reality. budget hearings start in april, and i need gallegos by then. they won't give us funding for three ounce buys.
speaker1: we're not just doing this for the funding, are we?
speaker2: without funding, we aren't doing it at all.

speaker1: my man, dudley, he's so fud-ley... 
speaker2: eddie, man, i need...
speaker3: whatever happened to that drug czar motherfucker?... he gave up 'cause he finally realized he didn't know nothing about any of that
speaker1: so what is it you need so bad, blood? need, need, need??
speaker2: a whole k, quick as you can get it.
speaker1: comin' in the world, dudley.
speaker2: all because of my man...
speaker1: give me a day.
speaker2: only if you clorox him first.

speaker1: eddie, i don't think i introduced you to my new partner, michael hernandez... 
speaker2: pleased to meet you, mr. shitface...

speaker1: you have the right to remain silent... you have the right to an attorney... you have the right to go back to ontario for eight-to-ten on a second offense... 
speaker2: oh, man, i can't go back in there, i just can't.
speaker3: 'course you can't, child, 'course you can't. that's why you're gonna start giving us some help.

speaker1: again. three times four. 
speaker2: seven.
speaker1: no. you're adding again, you have to multiply. three and four is seven. three times four is...
speaker2: twelve.
speaker1: three times five.
speaker3: can you get that?
speaker2: eight.
speaker1: it.
speaker2: why can't i just use a calculator?

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: we've got a problem, david.
speaker1: call me on the phone.
speaker2: your friend eddie just started bending over for the cops.
speaker2: they busted him, and he's dealing to save his ass.
speaker3: which is how he'll lose the skinny little thing.
speaker1: did he give us up?
speaker2: not yet, but he will if he has to, and eventually he'll have to.
speaker4: daddy! i thought we were doing my homework.
speaker1: i don't think he'd talk about us. he'd try not to.
speaker2: if we whack him, he definitely won't.
speaker4: daddy!!
speaker1: just a second. not yet. let me check on this, first.
speaker2: nobody said you had to do the dirty work, david. i'll take care of --
speaker1: felix, if he's a problem, we'll kill him. i'll kill him myself.
speaker1: nancy, get out of here.
speaker5: for you; it's eddie.
speaker2: you got a tasty wife, david. no wonder you don't want us coming here.
speaker1: don't talk about her that way.
speaker3: he can't help it, david, it's his nature.
speaker1: eddie... sure, man, what do you need?

speaker1: david, this is john, john, david. eddie, this is eddie. everybody ready? 
speaker2: so what's this, you want to meet me?
speaker3: i like to know the important customers.
speaker3: you're taking a lot of weight for a guy we hardly know. where're you moving this stuff, john? we haven't seen you around. we like to have a sense who your customers are.
speaker2: ah, come on, man, do macy's tell the gimbel motherfuckers?
speaker3: eddie, forget this guy, he's a cop.

speaker1: what is this eddie? i thought you were the man. 
speaker2: nobody's the man. go to your place. i'll call you.

speaker1: this is our collar? 
speaker1: who is he?
speaker2: some scumbag...
speaker3: he's no cop, david. he's an animal. you see his eyes? you never see a cop with those eyes. i know this man, you don't.
speaker4: what's going on, eddie?
speaker3: twenty-six thousand cash is what. we need it, david. we're behind.
speaker4: i want him to get it all, eddie.

speaker1: mr. hull... mr. hull... 
speaker2: what's happening, belinda?
speaker1: now you know, mr. hull, i was to the welfare this afternoon, but the bus, you know what i'm saying?... the one bus, and then the other, and when i got there they'd gone and changed the time on me, without notification. they's supposed to give notification, ain't they? they said i got a thing in the mail, but i don't remember, i don't think they sent it, so now i'm off the welfare, plus i forgot to take james for his shot... for the school? which otherwise they let him go. and he's gotta learn, he's gotta learn, don't he, mr. hull, you tell him, so's he can better hisself.
speaker2: you had any food today, james?
speaker3: i had ding-dongs.
speaker2: you go to the mexican place over there, and get the chicken tostada or the beef and bean burrito or both. and a milk.
speaker3: i don't like milk. i want a --
speaker2: you get the milk! and get something for your mother, too. what do you want?
speaker1: now, mr. hull, if you just --
speaker2: two tostadas, two burritos, two milks.
speaker1: you now, i look out for my james best i can, mr. hull, but it's hard. now you like the boy, don't you?
speaker1: i know you do. and i was thinkin' if you wanted to take care of him, that might be good for him. give him a male figure to look up to.
speaker2: look, belinda, i can't...
speaker1: if you could just give me something for him. say five thousand dollars... or maybe four thousand. i couldn't give up my boy for less than four thousand...
speaker2: it's me. i'm here... where?... five minutes.
speaker1: or you could just give me a part now...
speaker1: let me do somethin' for you, mr. hull. let me do a little somethin' for you.
speaker4: no solicitin' in the halls. i told you that before.
speaker1: i ain't doin'

speaker1: this is the police. remain inside the vehicle. place your open hands against the windshield so that they are clearly visible... 
speaker2: 
speaker3: spread the floor, dudley. a-ga, a-ga, a-ga, a-ga...

speaker1: thank you kindly... 
speaker1: how you doin', child?...
speaker2: you...
speaker1: me? of course, it's me. you know me?
speaker1: hurts, huh?
speaker1: yeah, i know, they kind of leave you speechless. so let me ask, if someone put a gun to your baby's head, wouldn't you kill him if you could?
speaker1: me, too. and you're the with the gun.
speaker2: you know the difference between a and a black man?
speaker1: don't jive me, boy.
speaker2: the nigger's the one covers whitey's by puttin' the brothers in jail.
speaker1: you ain't my brother.

speaker1: hi, i'm shelley weissbrod. this is only an arraignment, a preliminary hearing, but if you don't have money for an attorney, the public defender's office can... 
speaker2: you've got counsel. over there.
speaker3: you're a lawyer??
speaker4: i'm your lawyer.
speaker3: who hired you?
speaker4: it's pro bono. if you don't want me, there's shelley. she's good. she just can't provide special services...
speaker3: like what?
speaker5: john hull...
speaker4: getting your case called first.
speaker4: your honor, i believe the preliminary police toxicology report will show that the substance seized from my client was mannitol, a baby laxative. we move for immediate dismissal. hull is surprised at this news. the judge looks to the prosecutor who waives objection. gavel.
speaker4: we're out of here, dude.
speaker6: baby laxative, they sold you some bad
speaker7: you have a constipated baby, and you're in jail? what kind of a father are you?
speaker6: a father who don't know his own children, ain't that right?
speaker3: you sold me mannitol, motherfucker.
speaker4: if it hadn't been, asshole, you'd be in jail right now... come on, i want you to meet some people.

speaker1: dudley, dudley, fo-fudley... 
speaker2: surprised to see him, eddie?
speaker2: john got busted and kept his mouth shut. can't say that for everybody, can we?
speaker1: what are you saying? are you saying me? are you saying something about me?
speaker3: tell the truth, eddie. be honorable. it's all you got left.
speaker1: shut up, you little faggot.
speaker2: the cops made you give them somebody. we know it.
speaker1: all right, so what? i mean, so what, man? you got the money. twenty-six g. twenty-six, david. count it.
speaker2: next time you might trade us.
speaker1: never. never, felix, never. come on, man, you know i'd never...
speaker4: i know you never will.
speaker1: felix, no. don't be... i'm worth money to you. let me give you money.
speaker4: why? you don't owe me anything.
speaker1: another twenty-six grand... just to show you... fifty.
speaker4: why not a hundred?
speaker1: a hundred??? felix...
speaker1: okay, a hundred.
speaker4: give it.
speaker1: tomorrow. twenty-four hours.
speaker4: now. ten seconds.
speaker1: felix, i need time. i --
speaker4: one... two...
speaker1: i don't have it right now. but i can --
speaker3: then goodbye, eddie. i forgive you for what you said to me.
speaker1: twelve hours. tomorrow morning.
speaker4: six... seven... you want to do it, david?
speaker4: nine...

speaker1: piece of 
speaker1: what'd you think?
speaker2: at least it was clean.
speaker1: what about you, bar mitzvah body? first time you saw somebody die?
speaker3: no. at camp... when i was fourteen... a friend of mine was water skiing... the motorboat ran him over... a junior counsellor was driving.
speaker1: you should kill a man some day, david, it's liberating... summer camp. i'm in business with somebody who went to summer camp.

speaker1: eddie, man... he was always nice to my daughter. 
speaker2: how'd a guy like you get into this?
speaker1: the way most drug lawyers do: clients paid me in product, and i had to move it. soon i was doing more dealing than law. but this was '83, '84, there was so much money we thought it would never end.
speaker2: yeah. and now...?
speaker1: the road gets rougher. cocaine's a dying business.
speaker2: then what are we doing here?
speaker1: people are always going to want to get high. every society has ways to alter consciousness.
speaker2: because they can't bear reality.
speaker1: we all need our delusions, only the means change: psychedelics, opiates, prayer, orgies, human sacrifice...
speaker2: what's next?
speaker2: why aren't you selling it?
speaker1: i know how to make it and market it. but i need capital. that's the only reason i'm hanging out with an like barbosa. and because i can't get to the big guys.
speaker2: who are the big guys?
speaker1: gallegos, et cetera.
speaker2: why can't you get to them?
speaker1: what do you care?
speaker1: anyway, designer drugs have a bad name: ice, ecstasy, tar -- there's a limited market for parkinson's disease. but what about completely safe, almost legal, terrific you can go to work on and do your job better than you ever did it straight?
speaker2: sounds like a dream.
speaker1: in dreams begin responsibilities.
speaker2: tell me about this new
speaker1: some other time, john, when we know each other better. hey, bunnela. five times two.
speaker3: it's too early. don't bother me.
speaker3: seven.
speaker3: oh, yeah... ten... who's he?
speaker1: that's my friend, john. this is miranda.
speaker2: hi, miranda.
speaker4: come on, honey...
speaker1: nancy, this is john.
speaker2: that's more than i bought.
speaker1: half we owe you. the other half's on consignment. a token of our esteem.
speaker2: you're having trouble moving it.
speaker2: make me your partner. i'll help you get your capital.
speaker1: i don't need a partner. i need a salesman.

speaker1: i can't buy this much i haven't got it in the budget. 
speaker2: what am i supposed to do with it?
speaker1: you're a drug dealer, john. deal drugs. hull just looks at him. carver doesn't blink.
speaker2: you know how this goes, gerry. it won't stop here. you know what they're going to ask me to do pretty soon, to prove i'm down. what am i supposed to do then?
speaker1: don't blow your carver.

speaker1: but you want to be of use. you want to get drugs off the street, don't you? 
speaker2: that's why i'm here.
speaker1: well, this is the cost. pay it or go grow flowers someplace.

speaker1:  
speaker2: what'd you do that for?
speaker1: 'cause i can, 'cause i can.

speaker1: is david elias here? 
speaker2: momentito...
speaker2: jacqueline, ho-ney...
speaker2: "who's making love to your old lady... while you're out make love...?" how come i like balling black chicks so much?
speaker1: 'cause you're a racist you feel like you're a slave, and it gets you off.
speaker2: oh, don't mau mau me with the malcolm x tell me you're not chasin' white every chance you get.
speaker1: i don't dig white women. even if i did, it wouldn't mean the same thing.
speaker2: sure, it'd be the slave the master. hegel talks about it. just like me, but the other way around.
speaker1: hegel. who the is hegel? some smart-ass that talks backwards?
speaker2: everybody digs the other, john. they dig their own, and they dig the other.
speaker1: does your wife dig black guys, david? did she eddie? does she want to me?
speaker2: ooo... you mean with that great big purple of yours? i hope not. she'd never be impressed with my little thing again.
speaker1: you think what impresses her now is your dick?
speaker2: what does impress her?

speaker1: betty, this is john, my new associate. 
speaker2: your new eddie. i hear the old one wore out.
speaker1: factory recall. john's going to be a good customer. he does a lot of wash.
speaker3: so how's this place work?
speaker1: betty wires the money to a store in aruba in payment for things they never sent her. they deposit the money in a bank there that turns around and loans her money she never has to repay. that way it doesn't turn up as income for the irs. welcome to the laundromat.
speaker2: david, you talk too much.
speaker1: she doesn't trust you.
speaker3: how much is this?
speaker2: more than you can afford.
speaker3: i'll take it.
speaker1: by all means.
speaker2: come on, eddie 2... you're up.
speaker3: no, thanks.
speaker2: who is he, my mother?
speaker3: never have, never will.
speaker2: oooh... cocaine, i love it and i hate it and i love it. the disease is the cure.
speaker2: don't look at me. elias, tell him not to look at me. i don't like the
speaker1: john's an ascetic negro; he wants to make sure you know he's not a jungle bunny.
speaker3: watch your mouth, david.
speaker1: but he's got another side. you should seen him on the street the other day with these two usc kids. do the spade bit for her, john. i'm gonna mess you up, muthafugga...
speaker3: don't call me a spade. and don't tell me to play black.
speaker1: come on, john, you do it so well. ah ain't playin', muthafucka. ah ain't playin'.
speaker1: don't dis me, muthafucka. fucka... fucka... a... b... b-hive... fucka, fucka, fucka... elias dances around repeating "fucka" until it's almost musical.
speaker3: say it again, and i'll kill you.
speaker2: grow up, assholes!

speaker1: ...the guy ripped me off, man, so i don't got the money, i don't got the stuff and -- 
speaker2: you gotta pay anyway.
speaker1: oh, but, man...

speaker1:  
speaker1: bijoux!!

speaker1: it wasn't your fault. what could you have done? 
speaker2: she worked for me. i'm supposed to protect her.
speaker1: we have to kill him.
speaker1: or we lose all authority with the other dealers. and one of them'll kill you.
speaker1: you've got to assert now, or you're dead.
speaker1: and if we kill ivy, we control this whole territory.
speaker2: that guy who works for barbosa can do it, chino.
speaker1: no. if we use chino, it's barbosa who's asserting. it'll be barbosa's territory. it's gotta be us.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: and if it's us, it's gotta be you.
speaker2: don't blow your cover.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if i do this, we're partners. equal partners on everything.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker1: now...?

speaker1: go wait around back. 
speaker2: i want to see you in that alley.

speaker1: what're you looking at? 
speaker1: you want to it, or drink it?
speaker1: oh, i know you. you're the whose i wasted tonight, ain't you?

speaker1: daddy!! 
speaker2: hi, baby. how are you? i miss you!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i miss you...
speaker1: i miss you, too, daddy...

speaker1: the maze leads in two directions. at one end the rat can obtain a food pellet. at the other... ...it receives electrical stimulus to a very specific area of the cerebellum... 
speaker1: this rat, like 86% of the others in the experiment, chose the electrical stimulus repeatedly and exclusively. it continued to do so until it died of malnutrition.

speaker1: colored stuck together with wooden dowels. 
speaker2: this is an addictive amphetamine with time-space distortion, delusions of grandeur -- or maybe they're real -- tending to be impulsive, sometimes violent behavior. psychotropic adaptation for late monopoly capitalism. it's illegal, and you can buy it on any street corner.
speaker2: this increases energy, attention, cognitive powers, yet with a smooth, almost opiate-like emotional surface. ideal for the post-political, post- rationalist global marketplace and 24 hour lifestyles. it's completely legal and can only get it here, in my lab.
speaker3: randy's a genius. his professor told him he could win the nobel prize.
speaker2: nobel prizes are for wussies.
speaker4: what does this do to you?
speaker2: i'm on it now. it's like cocaine only better. want some?
speaker4: i don't take drugs.
speaker2: your mistake. this is designed for the top end of the market. for people who want to master reality, not avoid it. because it's synthetic, you don't grow it, refine it, or -- best of all -- import it.
speaker3: what would it take to manufacture this stuff in quantity?
speaker2: with a million dollars, i could produce enough for a limited market at about two bucks a pop. but then with five million, or better yet ten, the cost would drop to thirty cents, and we'd have enough for the whole world.
speaker3: i'm going to put two hundred fifty thousand into your corporate account. you cheat me, randy, i'll use your bladder for a bagpipe. we're going to put barbosa out of business.

speaker1: so, what was it like? 
speaker2: what was what like?
speaker1: popping ivy...
speaker2: you knew.
speaker1: i'm remember?
speaker2: then you should know how it was.
speaker1: you didn't clear it with me. you're getting independent. that's good.
speaker1: how're we coming on gallegos?
speaker2: he supplies barbosa. to get to him we'll have to take quantity.
speaker1: then you've got to --
speaker2: that's what killing ivy did. i'll get to him soon.
speaker2: is that it?
speaker1: i want you to get a new apartment. something expensive.
speaker2: i like where i am.
speaker1: that shithole? you're big time now. act it. and get some clothes. spend money. have fun. that's an order.

speaker1: nice place. nice suit. 
speaker2: hey...!
speaker1: you pick all this out yourself?
speaker2: a jewish lady in the store helped me.
speaker1: aw... very nice. understated. i'm impressed.
speaker2: fifty bucks, fifty bucks...
speaker1: you sold it all?
speaker1: i'll order a couple more keys from barbosa.
speaker2: order ten.
speaker1: ten??
speaker2: better twenty.
speaker1: i don't want to push it.
speaker2: i do. we've got a bigger territory, we need more product. i want to deal directly with gallegos. it would save us money.
speaker1: barbosa'll never let us near him.
speaker2: if we buy twenty, gallegos'll come to us himself.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker2: when i bought a key from eddie, you came to me.
speaker2: who's above gallegos?
speaker1: guzman, but he's... don't ask so many questions.
speaker2: how else will i learn? call barbosa, david, put in our order... because we have to split this, and there isn't enough here for both of us.

speaker1: nobody's home, go away. 
speaker2: look, i'm tired, why don't you...

speaker1: why do you look at me like that? 
speaker2: how do i look at you?
speaker1: like you know something i don't. like you're better than me.
speaker2: i don't think i'm better than you. i don't think i'm better than anybody.
speaker1: let's go back here...

speaker1: do this... do it with me. 
speaker1: this is where i'm at. you want to be with me, it's gotta be there.
speaker2: i don't do that.
speaker1: never have, never will.
speaker2: it's for
speaker1: what do you think, you're not a nigger? you're a as much as me.
speaker2: more.
speaker3: lets in elias. he smells the tension.
speaker4: having fun? i talked to barbosa. he'll see us now.

speaker1: ten kilos? you're always late on two. 
speaker2: not ten... twenty.
speaker2: the more we have, the more we can move. there're markets we can't open because we don't have the inventory.
speaker1: finally some on this team... come work for me, john. i'll give you your own franchise. you can supply elias, lean on him when he's late.
speaker3: go yourself.
speaker2: i'm with david.
speaker1: why? he give you his "designer drugs" pitch. he's never going to do it. he's a shmuck.
speaker3: don't talk to me that way.
speaker1: i'm not talking to you at all. i'm talking to john.
speaker4: it's the cocaine. don't listen to him. felix, you've had enough...
speaker1: shmuck.
speaker4: praise they don't let guns in here.
speaker5: "none of that in here..." "take it outside..."
speaker1: david, you've been working out, you're getting strong. are you quick, too? come on, i'll give you a shot at me.
speaker3: any time, any place.
speaker1: right here, right now. do this.
speaker3: this? what is this?
speaker1: you know, you slap me, i slap you. come on, it's fun. like summer camp.
speaker2: don't waste your time.
speaker1: stay out of this.
speaker1: now it's my turn.
speaker4: it's barbosa's turn. he's gonna kill the white boy.
speaker3: one more.
speaker1: no, you went, davey, now it's my turn. first to four wins, like the world series.
speaker4: oh, i can't look.
speaker1: you remember the rules? if you flinch, i get to hit you.
speaker1: again, shmuck.
speaker4: one.
speaker3: that was two.
speaker1: no, this is two.
speaker4: oh, and it hurts. mercy, it hurts.
speaker4: three.
speaker6: felix! no mas. finito.

speaker1: gallegos... 
speaker2: the fight is over! the ambassador from the south has spoken!
speaker3: one more.
speaker3: one more! we're not finished! four was the match.
speaker4: four.
speaker5: okay, that's it. get away.

speaker1: look at me. look at me, it! 
speaker2: why did you do it?
speaker1: i needed it. they taught me what i needed to know. that i'm not part of them, and i never will be. that they don't respect me. that i don't deserve respect. because i'm a shmuck, john. i'm a shmuck...
speaker3: david, i'm sorry. it's a crazy time, and... you know... i'm doing a little too much coca... i'll buy your kid a pony... anything you want... let's forget about it.
speaker4: i am so proud of you. you can be cruel, and you can be kind. and just now you were kind. proud, proud, and more proud. that's me.
speaker3: shut up.

speaker1: i got nothing to give you, my man. i'm an il-liquid son of a 
speaker2: felix, i keep telling them, "i have informants down there, i'm working guys, i can't say who..." if you don't have money, give me busts, or they're gonna start wondering about me.
speaker3: they're already wondering.
speaker1: you can have gopher.
speaker3: oh gawd...
speaker1: how about a lawyer?
speaker3: felix, don't do this.
speaker2: great, lawyers are great, jewish is best. but i need spades, too. the politicians want dark facts to scare the suburbs so they'll vote republican.
speaker1: lawyers and spades; i got the trifecta: two dealers and a girl who does their wash. two and a kike; all democrats.
speaker2: you're my man. and afterwards...
speaker1: when this is over, i'll send you to hawaii, maui. it's very beautiful in maui, it's a very spiritual place.
speaker2: i just want money.
speaker3: i wouldn't trust that man when he's out of rifle range.
speaker1: david, you're awake, i'm impressed... i'm sorry about what happened... listen, i'll get you twenty boxes, like you wanted. you were right, you should have what you need... tomorrow night... bring your partner and that girl with the store, betty... i need her advice on something. i want us to have fun, like we used to. we'll go to that shrimp place, okay?... good... me, too, david. yes!

speaker1: we're getting twenty kilograms tomorrow. tonight. i made it happen. i pushed elias, now he doesn't make a move without me. 
speaker2: you run elias.
speaker1: i control him. barbosa's selling it to us because he thinks i can move it... and last night i met ramon gallegos.
speaker1: we're getting the dope from him; it's still coming through barbosa, but gallegos will approach me soon on his own. we're going to get him, gerry. we're going to bring him and the whole thing down.
speaker1: what's your problem?
speaker2: my problem? my problem is that you don't really know what's happening.
speaker1: oh, so, tell me what's happening, gerry.
speaker2: barbosa is setting you up tonight.
speaker1: 
speaker2: he's dealing you to taft and hernandez. you're going to be taken down as you receive the drugs. they're putting together the arrest team right now.
speaker1: what do we do?
speaker2: you stay away. we're going to take them down.
speaker1: who? elias and betty? don't be silly.
speaker2: my boss wants a bust right now. he goes before the oversight committee next week. he needs something to justify the budget.
speaker1: i'll get him something. give me ten days, and i'll get him gallegos on a plate.
speaker2: too late. the whole thing's set up.
speaker1: gerry, what are you telling me? i need elias... and betty. you arrest them, and you're throwing away everything i've set up.
speaker2: it's out of my hands.
speaker2: john, don't go near that bust.

speaker1: we shouldn't go to them. maybe them come to us. 
speaker2: he wouldn't.

speaker1: i'm sorry for dragging you out so late, but i have to be careful. 
speaker2: it gives me confidence.

speaker1: let's see what we've got. 
speaker1: don't touch it.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: something's wrong. what's that van doing there?
speaker1: this is a bust. the minute we take the stuff, they'll be over us.
speaker2: he's crazy, david. i thought you were the crazy one, but it's him.
speaker1: chino, pick up the suitcase and give it to elias. i'll only kill him if something goes wrong.
speaker2: no!!
speaker3: a, john...
speaker1: okay, everybody in the car.

speaker1: we have a problem. 
speaker2: enough of this...
speaker1: no!

speaker1: chino's head explodes. betty screams. 
speaker2: don't shoot... don't shoot...
speaker3: goddam it, what the are you doing?

speaker1: i asked for this... i asked for it... it's my fault... 
speaker2: relax. we'll make it.
speaker3: he's a cop. he has to be. how else would he have known?
speaker2: if i was cop, you'd be face down back there.
speaker1: how did you know?
speaker2: the whole thing smelled. changing his mind about the stuff. meeting us way out here. and i'd seen cops in that van before. hernandez is dirty, that's who he's using.
speaker4: get out of the car.
speaker2: david, not now.
speaker4: yes, now!
speaker5: who are you, man? who the are you?
speaker6: i'm me.

speaker1: he traded us to the cops. just like eddie. eddie, who was nice to my daughter, had to die because that's the rule. and you were vulgar about my wife, felix, so at the very least the same rule applies to you. 
speaker2: i'll give you money. i'll give you a million. anything you want.
speaker1: i want you to get out of the car. get out of the car. out of the --
speaker3: no, no... we can't do this.
speaker4: stop it, david, or we're...
speaker1: look at my hands!
speaker1: get out of the car.
speaker3: no!
speaker4: goddammit!
speaker1: stay out of this, or you'll die. you'll both die. everyone'll die.
speaker2: i can't...

speaker1: i had him! 
speaker2: you want to kill a cop?? don't be stupid.

speaker1: everything is different. we're the colombians now. this is the greatest night of my life. terrible but great. felix was right... 
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: he said i should kill a man. he was right.
speaker2: my
speaker1: barbosa was a roach. do you miss him? will anybody in the world miss him?
speaker2: are you a roach, too?
speaker1: yes. thank
speaker2: what about you? he's silent, keeps driving. she's had enough.
speaker2: stop the car.
speaker2: stop it!
speaker1: she knows too much. we have to kill her.
speaker3: no! she's with me. she's not going to talk. you touch her, i'll kill you.
speaker1: she's your responsibility then.
speaker1: we're going to get the money now, john. enough for the new drug. we're going to be rich. we're going to be so rich that we're going to leave the world of ordinary people and going to a higher realm. i mean that.
speaker3: they're going to come after us.
speaker1: it's a hardball game. we're hardball players.

speaker1: it wasn't my fault. 
speaker2: it never is.

speaker1: tell me about you. 
speaker1: don't hurt her.

speaker1: who's grave? 
speaker2: my wife's. she died of leukemia three years ago. i like to be among the dead. they never interrupt you. felix barbosa started out as a skinny fourteen-year-old yankee businessman in bogata hotels. he grew up. he made himself strong and rich, but getting there made him sick, and that killed him. so he lost everything for the same reason he'd gotten it in the first place. now we'll see if you can do as well.
speaker2: felix owed me one million eight hundred thousand dollars.
speaker2: when you killed him, you bought the debt; now you owe it to me; you get to keep thirty percent, like he did. you have three days.
speaker3: who did barbosa collect from?
speaker2: if you don't know, you shouldn't have killed him.
speaker2: cute... can i have that?

speaker1: i don't want you in here. you killed the man, and i loved him. i don't want to have anything to do with you. 
speaker1: i'm a sixty-three-year-old man! i'm a grandfather! would you hit a sixty- three-year-old white man? would you hit your own grandfather?
speaker2: listen, you monkey, you know who owed him money, and we know you know. tell us or -- hull pulls him off. elias is angry. they struggle.
speaker3: he'll tell us. gopher, just...
speaker1: you can't tell anyone it was me.

speaker1: where the is all the money? we're still a million short. 
speaker2: i gotta get laid.
speaker1: david, we've got thirty-six hours.
speaker2: pick me up at jacqueline's in the morning.
speaker1: sooner than that.
speaker3: get in.

speaker1: where the have you been? 
speaker2: doing my job.
speaker1: you violated a direct order to stay away from that bust. as a result, a police informant is dead, a state senator was critically injured in the tunnel pile up and a city policeman was subsequently murdered.
speaker2: i didn't blow my cover.
speaker1: don't get smart with me, motherfucker.
speaker2: don't be a shmuck, gerry. i'm talking to gallegos. i'm collecting his money. we can set him up right now.

speaker1: never have, never will. i want you to give me your gun. you're coming in right now. 
speaker2: coming in where?
speaker1: your assignment has been terminated. you're not going out there again. if i have to, i'll put you in custody.
speaker2: i'm going to have gallegos in two days.
speaker2: you're protecting him. you're protecting gallegos.
speaker2: no, of course. that's why you wanted to bust elias and betty. i was getting close, and you wanted to cut this off then... what is he, the new noriega? helps you fight commies, so you let him sell drugs to the niggers. two birds with one stone.
speaker1: you violated orders, so you're through. don't make a conspiracy theory out of it.
speaker2: now tell me the truth or they're going to decide your troubles got the best of you.
speaker1: you're insane.
speaker2: all the more reason to do what i say. ger, i'm having trouble holding on...
speaker1: all right!
speaker2: say it!
speaker1: it's the state department.
speaker1: i told you, gallegos's uncle is a big deal down there.
speaker2: guzman.
speaker1: guzman, right. our government supports guzman because he's a moderate. that's a right-winger who's pro-u.s. if gallegos got busted here, it would hurt guzman's political career there. it's politics, john, not drugs.
speaker2: drugs is politics. politics is drugs... christ, gerry, i dealt drugs. i killed a man. others died. what did i do all this for? for nothing.
speaker1: i'm going to washington, john. i'll bring you with me. we'll have clout, money...
speaker2: i didn't do this for clout or money. you said we were gonna do some good.
speaker1: we tried.
speaker2: trying's for college boys. if all there is is power and money... if all there is... then what am i doing here? 'cause i can get more power and money out on the street, i got more there already, than i'd ever get kissing your in washington...
speaker1: but you can't do that, john. it's not you.
speaker2: me? there is no me. we took care of that. first i was a cop pretending to be a dealer. now i'm just a dealer pretending to be a cop. why not stop pretending...? quit the force. be a dealer.
speaker1: it's not that simple.
speaker2: my assignment's already terminated. all i have to do is quit. i hereby quit. my first one. not so bad.
speaker1: don't blow your cover.
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker2: who are you, my mother?
speaker3: tell me.
speaker2: tell you what?
speaker3: what you came to say.
speaker2: what did i come to say?
speaker3: then tell me anything. something about you. something real.
speaker2: when i was young, i occasionally stole things. my father died when i was ten. right in front of me.
speaker2: heart attack. he just fell down. he said, "i love you," then died in my arms.
speaker3: oh, baby...
speaker3: tell me what's going on, john?
speaker2: you're not doing the stuff anymore, are you?
speaker3: no. don't change the subject.
speaker2: how is that?
speaker3: it's hard. john...!
speaker2: things are getting, they're getting a little... confusing. i had certain plans, and people haven't come through exactly as they promised.
speaker3: what do you expect with those people?
speaker2: it's not just those people. it's... it's bigger than that. it's of everybody. present company excluded.
speaker3: you've got to stop this, john, you know that. you gotta get out.
speaker2: i can't.
speaker3: of course, you can.
speaker2: no! this is what i'm supposed to do.
speaker3: supposed to? who said you're supposed to?
speaker2: the whole world. you think i didn't try something else? but everything funnels you right back here. like it's where you had to go all along.
speaker3: but you know what you're doing, don't you, selling this stuff? doing to our own.
speaker2: if i tried to get out now, they'd kill me.

speaker1: there've got to be more. we have a million two, we owe gallegos one eight. 
speaker2: i told you everyone. everyone who owed him, everyone he... one eight? he's lying. barbosa barely owed him a million.

speaker1: i got every money transfer, every phone call, all your laundry tickets. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: john hull.
speaker2: i can't!
speaker1: or you'll go away 'til you're a dried up old woman, and when you come out, ain't nobody gonna want you.

speaker1: it isn't one eight. it's a million one. that's all barbosa owed, it's all we're paying. 
speaker2: big brass balls. collecting money makes you strong.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker2: i'm telling our suppliers they got paid. they'll be very happy. i'm happy.
speaker3: and we're happy. everybody's happy. it's a happy world.
speaker2: so, how can i express my gratitude for a job well done?
speaker3: we want barbosa's business.
speaker2: done. of course.
speaker3: and, also, your business. all this. your money, your dope, everything.
speaker2: you're tougher than i thought, but not that tough.
speaker3: how tough is enough?
speaker1: no!
speaker3: thank you, john. i couldn't have done that without you.
speaker1: 
speaker3: you taught me to take my work seriously.
speaker1: what's going on here, david?
speaker3: we're taking over.
speaker1: you're doing too much stuff.
speaker3: no, i'm very clear. i'm very, very clear. ahora, usted nos assistamos. enteindo?

speaker1: donde esta? 
speaker2: what the fuck's the matter with you?
speaker1: it works, john. it works.

speaker1: approximating the cubic capacity and depending on the denominations of the bills, it's somewhere between fifty million and two hundred million dollars. right back there. 
speaker1: think i'm crazy?
speaker2: yes. i can't believe you got us into this. all of latin america is going to be after our asses, including renaldo guzman who's friends with george bush.
speaker1: i know they're coming after us. i want them to. we'll give them the money, but we'll make a deal for ourselves. we'll get what we need for the synthetic drugs. i've thought it all out. i've been thinking it out for years.
speaker1: we're going to have everything. don't you want everything, john?
speaker2: they're going to get your family, david. they'll kill your wife and daughter.
speaker1: nancy and miranda left the country two days ago.
speaker2: you knew about this then?
speaker2: what about betty?

speaker1: hi, my name is betty. 
speaker2: hi, betty!
speaker1: my name is betty, i'm a drug addict. and i've been clean for nineteen days.
speaker1: i've been using drugs and selling them, and i've wanted to stop for a long time, and the only way i did was because i met a man i loved and who loved me. i know that's not what i'm supposed to say. i'm supposed to say there was a higher power, and maybe there was, behind it all, but this man is strong and his love made me strong enough that i could start, or at least think about a life that didn't have drugs in it... she's looking right at hull as she speaks. he's torn between the danger he knows she's in and his emotion at what she's saying.

speaker1: i've got to get clothes. 
speaker2: you can't go back.

speaker1: she got a fever and just burned up. she just burned up all of a sudden. it must have been bad stuff. 
speaker2: he shouldn't be here.
speaker1: come on, james, we'll go get a burrito.

speaker1: cute kids... 
speaker2: give me that.
speaker1: tell me something, who the are you?
speaker1: 'cause i don't think you're quite the you're trying to be.
speaker2: look, mr. taft, that's your name, right? leave me alone. i got things on my mind.
speaker1: i'd think you would. you better have your life on your mind, or it's gonna get away from you. it's gonna burn up like that poor woman across the way. like all of you's gonna burn...
speaker2: and what do you do, mr. taft, except chase bad guys up and down the street with your dirty partner, never catching anybody important?
speaker1: i do what i can. do you do what you can? maybe my partner was dirty. maybe the chief's dirty. and the mayor. and the president. maybe himself's taking something on the side. that's their problem. but i'll bust 'em if i can.
speaker2: get out of my room.
speaker1: don't deny who you are.
speaker2: they're my children. they live in cleveland with their mother. i'm divorced from her. i haven't seen them in... some time. i want to, but i haven't been able to arrange it.
speaker3: how much else don't i know about you?
speaker2: everything else... everything else is... i don't know.
speaker3: taft has all the evidence about my laundering.
speaker3: he's going to put me in jail for a long time unless i give you up.
speaker2: do it.
speaker3: i can't. so, i've got to get away. far away. but i need money.
speaker2: money? i got money...
speaker2: international terminal. i'll meet you there in a week.
speaker3: you know the first time, when i saw you in the bar...?
speaker2: you wouldn't even look at me.
speaker3: 'cause i knew what you were thinking. you were judging me.
speaker2: no, i wasn't, i was...
speaker3: you were. your eyes were like an angel in my heart telling me i should be good, and i didn't want to hear it.
speaker3: that's you, too. maybe this is you, i don't know, but i know that's you. she closes the door. the car pulls away.

speaker1: what if we forget all this? take ten million each and disappear. leave the country. new identities, new lives... 
speaker2: what's the matter, john? having doubts?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: yes... where?... no! no way... we pick the time and place... otherwise no meet... got a pencil?

speaker1: we have a proposal to make. we regret what happened to your nephew... 
speaker2: say what you have to say.
speaker1: we all know that your cousin's business is coming to an end. costs have climbed while profits and the market -- guzman waves: get to the point.
speaker1: we have developed a new product: simpler, cheaper to manufacture, superior quality and completely synthetic. therefore, no growing, no refining, no peasants, no importing, no customs agents... here's a detailed prospectus with anticipated cash flow and so forth.
speaker2: the racist americans just want to cut us poor hispanics out of the market.
speaker1: there are no americans anymore, mr. guzman, you know that. no hispanics, no japanese, no blacks, no whites, no anything. there are only rich people and poor people. we're rich, so we're on the same side.
speaker3: do they have money in there?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker3: they wouldn't meet here otherwise.
speaker3: okay, everybody, here's the play...

speaker1: we're prepared to give you 80% of the money. the remainder you invest in our business with proceeds paid out according to the figures there. 
speaker2: this looks interesting. i'd have to confirm everything, of course. do you have a sample of the product?
speaker3: buy it!
speaker2: where is our money?
speaker2: you set this up.
speaker4: they're after us, not you.

speaker1: we did it. twenty million. twenty million. we're going to have synthetics. we're gonna be rich. we're gonna... 
speaker1: what's the matter, john? be happy. your whole life has just been solved.
speaker2: stop! police!
speaker1: john, where are you going?
speaker3: oh, no...
speaker1: john, what the are you doing? let's get out of here.
speaker3: he's dying.
speaker1: let him die. let him die twice. come one.
speaker3: [says to taft whatever a cpr-trained policeman would say in this situation.] get help.
speaker1: are you kidding me?
speaker4: oh, man, you're a cop. you're a cop, aren't you?
speaker3: yeah, i'm a cop. i'm a cop...
speaker1: oh, really? where's you badge?
speaker3: i don't have one. i'm undercover. get help, david.
speaker1: john, that's a cop. he tried to kill you.
speaker3: he didn't know.
speaker1: oh, he didn't know. i don't know. maybe you don't know. maybe you think you're a cop because... because...
speaker3: drop the gun, put your hands against the car. spread your legs... police!
speaker3: my please...
speaker1: okay, let's say you're a cop. be a cop.
speaker1: we've still got the money. we put it into randy's chemistry set. in five years we're worth five hundred million each, minimum. you'll be one of the richest black men in america. richer than cosby. who gives a how you got it? you think the white ones were honest?
speaker5: nigger...

speaker1: what about guzman? 
speaker2: he vanished, thank or we'd both be in deep doo-doo. at least you got gallegos.
speaker1: elias did. and everything goes on as before.
speaker2: that's the drug game. plus a change... i want you to come back to work for me. you'll beat all charges on a technicality and go back to who you were.
speaker1: who was i, ger?
speaker2: does anyone really know?
speaker1: i have other things to do.
speaker2: like travel? tangiers, maybe?
speaker2: i'm remember?
speaker3: alone in the cell, unaware she's being watched.
speaker2: go back to work, she walks out of here. otherwise, she's up on multiple counts, and i'll see to it the judge runs them consecutively.

speaker1: they want me to testify against you. i said i wouldn't. 
speaker2: you have to. it's all set up. that's how you're getting off.
speaker2: my father didn't have a heart attack.
speaker2: he was shot robbing a liquor store. trying to rob it. i lied about that.
speaker1: baby, why are you telling me this?
speaker2: i had to start somewhere... there're other things you don't know...

speaker1: betty walked out of court free this morning. that's my side of the deal. 
speaker2: you two run on ahead.
speaker1: her probation gets revoked the minute you up. i want you to stay away from her altogether.
speaker2: you know the difference between a black man and a nigger?
speaker1: don't blow your cover.

