speaker1: you keep your work station so clean, jerome. 
speaker2: --next to godliness, isn't that what they say?
speaker1: i reviewed your flight plan. not one error in a hundred thousand keystrokes. phenomenal. it's right that someone like you is taking us to the belt. you have a substance test.

speaker1: jerome...never shy. on command. you've got a beautiful cock. i ever told you that, jerome? 
speaker2: only every time i'm in here.
speaker1: i see a lot of cocks. i speak from experience. yours is a beautiful example. why didn't my folks order a like that for me?
speaker2: i'll tell you at the end of the week.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i can't do this.
speaker1: i told you, the government pays. it's all taken care of.
speaker2: no, you don't understand. i
speaker2: i'm not doing it.
speaker1: honey, you've made
speaker2: not like
speaker1: the child won't thank you!

speaker1: my destiny was mapped out before me-- all my flaws, predispositions and susceptibilities - most untreatable to this day. only minutes old, the date and cause of my death was already known. 
speaker2: antonio--
speaker3: --no,

speaker1: your extracted eggs... ... 
speaker1: you've already specified blue eyes, dark hair and fair skin. i have taken the liberty of eradicating any potentially prejudicial conditions - premature baldness, myopia, alcoholism and addictive susceptibility, propensity for violence and obesity--
speaker2: --we didn't want--
speaker1: is there any reason you'd want a left-handed child?
speaker3: er, no...
speaker3: i like football.
speaker1: i have to warn you, mr luca, he's going to be at least a head taller than you. prepare for a crick in the neck in sixteen years time.
speaker1: anything i've forgotten?
speaker2: we want him--we were hoping he would get married and have children. we'd like grandchildren.
speaker1: i understand. that's already been taken care of. now you appreciate i can only work with the raw material i have at my disposal but for a little extra...i could also attempt to insert sequences associated with enhanced mathematical or musical ability.
speaker2: antonio, the choir...
speaker3: how much extra?
speaker1: it would be five thousand more.
speaker3: i'm sorry, there's no way we can.
speaker1: don't worry. you'll probably do just as well singing to him in the womb. we can implant the most successful pre-embryo tomorrow afternoon.
speaker2: what will happen to the others?
speaker1: smaller than a grain of sand.

speaker1: how many astronauts are there, anyway? 
speaker1: i bet

speaker1: vincent, you have to be realistic. a heart condition like yours-- 
speaker2: --i don't care. i'll take the risk.
speaker1: it's not just

speaker1: why didn't you say anything? 
speaker2: why didn't

speaker1: when you clean the glass, vincent, don't clean it too well. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: you might get ideas.
speaker2: but if the glass is clean, it'll be easier for you to see me when i'm on the other side of it. caesar smiles at vincent's cockiness.

speaker1: where's earl? 
speaker2: he fell. lucky it was only the second floor.

speaker1: vincent, i'm german-- that's my name. 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: i think i could do something provided you know what you're doing and you can meet the terms.
speaker1: you got a photo of yourself?
speaker1: vincent...vincent...
speaker2: german, is that you?
speaker1: vincent, come down. i've found him.

speaker1: i hope he's not just a body. 
speaker2: no problem. before he dropped out he was an honor student, the right majors--
speaker1: how do i square the accident?
speaker2: it happened in australasia. he checked in yesterday. no family complications, no record he ever broke his neck. as far as anybody's concerned, he's still a walking, talking, fully-productive member of society. you just have to get him off the pipe and fill in the last two years of his life. excuse me,
speaker1: that's the hair color in his profile?
speaker1: i'd have to bleach my hair.
speaker2: why are you inventing problems? you two are a couple of goddam clones. you look so right together, i want to double my fee.
speaker1: how tall are you?
speaker3: four foot six.
speaker1: okay, how tall did you
speaker1: he's too tall.
speaker2: you can wear lifts.
speaker1: even with lifts i'm never that tall.
speaker2: there's a way.

speaker1: you okay, jerome? 
speaker2: yeah. you want to go dancing tonight?

speaker1: what's wrong with it? 
speaker2: i think i'd better choose the menu. after all, you're learning how to be me, i'm not learning how to be
speaker1: german.
speaker2: you're both going to a lot of trouble--
speaker2: at least you're honest. call me by my middle name--eugene--if you're going to be jerome, you may as well start getting used to it.

speaker1: i have to know where you come from. 
speaker2: if anybody asks, tell them the truth-- your family disowns you. you are a disappointment, jerome.
speaker1: what about this?
speaker2: wrong color. it's silver. it's not easy living up to this.

speaker1: it needs work. 
speaker2: you had to be a right-hander.
speaker1: noone orders southpaws anymore.

speaker1: it's not too late to back out. 
speaker2: you don't know what a relief it is not to be me. are you sure
speaker2: listen, i bag this stuff anyway. it may as well pay my rent.

speaker1: congratulations. 
speaker2: what about the interview?
speaker1: that was it.

speaker1: awful. 
speaker2: yeah, awful it didn't happen
speaker3: we're still going ahead as planned?
speaker4: the launch window is only open until week's end. tragic though this event may be, it hasn't stopped the planets turning.
speaker4: you'll have to excuse me, jerome. i have to meet with the authorities--naturally, we're co-operating in any way, although i won't tolerate a major disruption. i wish i was going with you, jerome.

speaker1: thank you for your co-operation. please return to your work stations immediately. 
speaker2: what, no counselling?

speaker1: excuse me, jerome. i'm sorry to bother you. 
speaker2: no bother.
speaker1: i've been asked to compile a log for the investigators--they want to know everyone's whereabouts last night.
speaker2: last night? i was at home.
speaker1: can that be, er, verified? were you alone?
speaker2: no it can't be verified. yes i was alone. irene makes another note.
speaker2: looks bad, doesn't it, irene? what about
speaker2: were
speaker2: so we don't know for sure about you, either.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: why don't we say we were together?
speaker1: why would we do that?
speaker2: i have better things to do this week than
speaker1: to be convincing, jerome, i would have to know what that was like. irene turns and departs. jerome watches her go.

speaker1: you didn't forget the truffles? 
speaker1: who died?
speaker2: the mission director.
speaker1: you wish.
speaker2: they found him in his office this morning-- beaten so bad they had to check his nametag.
speaker1: what an act of benevolence--a service to the community. so that's it. now there's nothing between you and ignition.
speaker2: he was still warm when they confirmed.
speaker1: this calls for a celebration. doesn't it?
speaker2: the place is crawling with hoovers.
speaker1: so what? you didn't kill him, did you?
speaker2: that's not the point.

speaker1: how old? 
speaker1: i'll see what i can do.

speaker1: good evening, gentlemen. your table is ready. not long now, sir. you'll be upstairs before you know it. we're going to miss you. 
speaker2: not as much as i'll miss your stroganoff. i'd like to take one of your chefs with me.

speaker1: honey, if you'd hurt me, i'd be cured. 
speaker1: you want to meet a real-life spaceman?
speaker2: let's get out of here.
speaker1: you're right, there's more atmosphere where you're going.

speaker1: i gotta stop!! i gotta stop!! 
speaker2: keep going!! keep going!!

speaker1: you you could ruin everything with a stunt like that. 
speaker2: and drinking it. it's like evian by the time it's filtered.
speaker1: what
speaker1: how long do you stay up there before you go?
speaker2: a day or so.
speaker2: you should be going instead of me.
speaker2: up there they wouldn't be a problem.
speaker1: you know i'm scared of heights.

speaker1: i'm sorry. did you want it? 
speaker1: let me get it for you.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm sorry. 
speaker2: it's okay, eugene.
speaker1: you know i wasn't drunk--i knew what i was doing when i walked in front of that car--
speaker2: --what car?--go to sleep.
speaker1: --i walked right in front of it. i was never more sober in my life.
speaker2: it's all right.
speaker1: i'm proud of you, vincent.

speaker1: i don't understand why you were dragged out here, sir. it's hardly worth wasting your time--a no-nothing case like this. 
speaker2: a man's dead, detective.
speaker1: of course, sir. we're checking the entry log, alibis, grudges...
speaker2: grudges?
speaker1: i look around, i see a lot of dry eyes. the director was not... ...universally loved. he was leading the cut-backs in the program. you're looking at a room full of motives.
speaker2: no,
speaker2: --what

speaker1: of course that doesn't jibe with what we found. this was an angry killing. 
speaker1: i'll run a crossover on the eyelash for any family or associate connections--
speaker2: --i've already run it. there's no record of any living relative.
speaker1: what a pity.
speaker3: napoleon, you're late for your substance test. napoleon looks up, ashen-faced. jerome intervenes.
speaker4: director, napoleon's helping me today.
speaker3: well, you take it
speaker4: don't worry about it.

speaker1: six miles later it's still beating like a metronome. i could play piano by that heartbeat of his. 
speaker2: director josef, this is our lead investigator. the two men exchange a polite handshake. however the
speaker3: how often do you test, director?
speaker4: often.
speaker3: surely you know what you have.
speaker4: we have to be certain. once they're up, we can hardly turn the boat around.
speaker3: we believe we have a suspect.
speaker4: what a relief.
speaker3: this unaccountable specimen was found in the south wing corridor.
speaker2: an age enhancement is being prepared as we speak.
speaker4: irene will make it available to security.

speaker1: we were looking at each other. you stopped. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't mean anything.
speaker1: we were just looking.
speaker2: i know about you.
speaker2: here, take it.
speaker1: sorry, the wind caught it.

speaker1: have they found our friend? 
speaker2: friend?
speaker1: it was a mercy-killing after all.
speaker2: they found an eyelash.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: in the south wing.
speaker1: does it have a name?
speaker2: just some in-valid. vincent-- --somebody.
speaker1: perhaps we ought to celebrate, irene.
speaker2: you celebrate, jerome?

speaker1: call german. 
speaker2: any particular reason?
speaker1: we can't stay here.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: they think i offed the director.
speaker2: what makes them think that?
speaker1: they found my eyelash.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: in a corridor.
speaker2: could be worse. they could have found it in your eye.
speaker1: come on--we're taking off.
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere. less than a week to go. not on your life--
speaker1: --you don't understand, they'll make the connection, they'll hoover again. we should cut our losses.
speaker2: where is your head, jerome? you're acting like a guilty man. they won't marry the eyelash to you. they won't believe that one of their elite navigators could have suckered them for the last five years.
speaker1: they'll recognize me.
speaker2: how could they recognize you?
speaker1: i'm sorry. i think i was crying.
speaker2: well save those tears.
speaker1: you really had other offers?
speaker2: i'm sure i could have.

speaker1: mind if i borrow a tie? 
speaker2: so it's not just the hoovers who've got you rattled.
speaker1: you're the one who said not to change anything. she's my ear to the investigation.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker1: i've got enough on my mind without that.
speaker2: if you say so. the stripe.
speaker1: good choice.
speaker1: not thirsty?
speaker2: i don't feel too good. i think i'm still drunk from last night.
speaker1: never stopped you before.
speaker2: if i were you i'd worry about myself. haven't you forgotten something?
speaker3: we still need to overhaul the back-up generator. what's going on, eugene, i thought he was going away, not you--you going on vacation?
speaker2: you got it, german.
speaker3: you deserve it.

speaker1: this is the age enhancement we're working with. 
speaker2: we're in the wrong place. we're wasting time.
speaker1: this
speaker2: since going underground, traces of this in-valid have shown up at the scene of four serious felonies. do you need any more than that?
speaker1: with respect, sir, many perfectly innocent citizens have left specimens at as many crime scenes. maybe he's just unlucky.
speaker2: i don't like anybody
speaker2: this is a murder investigation. the public should be happy to co-operate, to get this disease off the streets.

speaker1: you didn't know? 
speaker2: yes...
speaker2: why would i be angry? it was beautiful.

speaker1: one of those hoovers is back. 
speaker2: it's alright. he's here to see me.
speaker2: sonja, i can't see anyone else tonight.

speaker1: i don't understand you, investigator. 
speaker1: wouldn't you be happier with one of your made-to-order whores?
speaker2: you are so beautiful, are you sure you
speaker1: are you so much more alive, investigator?
speaker2: i'm not paying you to talk.

speaker1: better not. 
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: i want to show you something.

speaker1: come on! we'll miss it! 
speaker2: come on. we'll miss it.

speaker1: what did i tell you? 
speaker1: i envy you, jerome.
speaker2: you'll be next.
speaker1: i don't think so. the only trip i'll make in space is around the sun-- --on this satellite right here. irene turns to jerome.
speaker1: --listen, i don't want to waste your time and i
speaker2: what exactly is wrong?
speaker1: nothing yet. i'll start experiencing symptoms in my late-fifties. but unless they come up with something between now and then, i won't live much past 67.
speaker1: of course i think about it every day.
speaker2: of course.

speaker1: how was your evening? 
speaker2: complicated. i couldn't stop her apologizing.
speaker1: you

speaker1: you're not thinking of telling her, are you? 
speaker2: of course not. but she's have to know eventually.
speaker1: she doesn't

speaker1: a customer? does this michael's cater to misfits? 
speaker2: no. but one or two "borrowed ladders" have shown up there in the past.
speaker2: we have to consider the possibility that he's playing somebody else's hand.
speaker1: of course. he's a "de-gene-erate".
speaker2: it is hard to believe he could be one of their elite workers. you've seen their security system. they know who works there. even if you ignore the man's expiration date, his profile suggests that he doesn't have the mathematical propensity let alone the stamina to pass their physicals.
speaker1: don't underestimate these imposters.
speaker2: none of the id photos match the enhancement.
speaker2: you know their workforce. two-thirds at least fall into the category. we'll be closing down their operation for days. at least go with a fingertip sample or urine.
speaker1: blood. from the vein.

speaker1: look like anybody to you? 
speaker2: not to me.
speaker1: ugly though, isn't he?

speaker1: --somewhere in the dust of gaspra is the key. back to the beginning of the book--the life we became. with the original building blocks who knows how far we can take "the godding". 
speaker2: even someone as advanced as jerome will be last year's model by the time we're done.
speaker3: i wouldn't get your hopes up, commander.
speaker4: excuse me, mr morrow. the investigators have begun their testing.

speaker1: i'm afraid not. 
speaker2: i apologize, jerome.
speaker3: it's not yor fault, director. if your predecessor were still around we may not be going to gaspra at all.

speaker1: what's with the plungers, lamar? what are you doing, opening a blood bank? the syringes are clearly not lamar's idea. 
speaker1: damn!!
speaker2: jesus--i'm sorry, jerome.
speaker1: you must be out of practise, lamar.
speaker2: i've got enough here.

speaker1: so you didn't do it after all. 
speaker2: i guess somebody beat me to it.

speaker1: that's the last. 
speaker2: something's not right.
speaker1: he's not here. it's a blind alley.
speaker2: no, we've missed something. we hoover again.
speaker1: we don't have the manpower.
speaker2: get it. from outside, if you have to.
speaker1: from what budget?
speaker2: i'll take it out of your
speaker2: thank you, no.
speaker2: you're so unconcerned that you have a killer in your midst.
speaker3: right now,

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i've got plans.
speaker1: again?
speaker2: she's already got her doubts. i have to act like nothing's wrong.
speaker1: i'm sure you'll be very convincing.
speaker1: where are you taking her?
speaker2: michael's.
speaker2: everybody goes there.
speaker1: you may as well invite her here.
speaker2: will you be okay?
speaker1: don't worry about your little pin cushion. to be honest, i'm looking forward to having the place to myself.
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: by the time i'm at the belt, you phone and say, "how are you?" forty-five minutes later i reply, "not bad. how are you?"
speaker1: i guess i'd better have something important to say if it takes that long to get an answer.

speaker1: what 
speaker1: i'd better not.
speaker2: so sure of what you can't do. do you even know what it tastes like, irene? irene goes to deny it but cannot.
speaker3: take the side door.
speaker4: check for lenses, hairpieces--
speaker1: why are we leaving?
speaker2: those checks take forever.

speaker1: jerome! 
speaker1: what about the car?
speaker2: let's walk.
speaker1: who are they?
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: my medication. i left it back there.
speaker2: we'll get it later.

speaker1: you run a clean establishment. 
speaker2: are you a health inspector?
speaker1: do you recognize this man?
speaker2: my eyes aren't so good.
speaker1: i bet.
speaker3: sir.
speaker1: did he hit you with his fist?
speaker4: more like a hammer.
speaker1: don't touch your face. don't swallow. don't spit. quick, clean his teeth.

speaker1: are you trying to kill me? are you?! don't you understand, i can't do that! 
speaker2: you just did.
speaker3: vincent! vincent!

speaker1: what are you waiting for? 
speaker2: where do we start?
speaker1: we'll vacuum these streets if we have to.
speaker3: we caught them trying to flush these, sir.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: you remember the '99 chrysler lebaron? it's the exact height of the front fender. looked right instead of left.
speaker1: so you're not so smart after all. i want you to know--if it ever came to it-- i'd be willing to get an ovum from the egg bank. in fact, i'd

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: these new personality corrections i've been reading about.
speaker1: you worried about the cost?
speaker2: not that.
speaker1: they said the same thing about myopia and obesity. you think your children would be less human if they were less violent, angry, spiteful? maybe they'd be

speaker1: positive saliva match. the cup was definitely used since the original sweep. 
speaker2: so we have two choices. either our suspect
speaker2: this time i will supervise each test personally.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: i forgot something--something at home. i'll see you later.
speaker1: i'll miss you.
speaker1: --when you go away.
speaker2: we could go together one day.

speaker1: he's the only absentee. 
speaker2: a little nausea. quite common.
speaker3: at least it's nothing contagious.
speaker4: i'll call and let him know.
speaker3: let's not spoil the surprise. i understand you can show us the way.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: how would you like to be yourself for the day?
speaker1: i was never very good at it, remember?

speaker1: you don't know who he is, do you, irene? 
speaker1: you think you have problems?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: jerome--?
speaker1: hello, sweatheart. come on up.

speaker1: where's my kiss? 
speaker2: good to see you're feeling better.
speaker1: now
speaker1: again?
speaker1: forgive me for not getting up.
speaker2: couldn't we do this another time?
speaker3: i don't believe so.
speaker4: this won't take a moment.
speaker3: mind if i take a leak?
speaker1: as long as you don't do it in my closet. over there.

speaker1: may i? 
speaker2: clean the whole house if you want.

speaker1: how are you, jerome? 
speaker2: not bad, jerome.
speaker1: how the did you get here.
speaker1: irene.

speaker1: this can't be him. 
speaker1: luca could still be an accomplice.

speaker1: hugo! i've found him! 
speaker2: i've found him too.
speaker1: a fingerprint. there's something to be said for nostalgia. what did you find?
speaker3: it's not
speaker3: but this man does share some common characteristics with your suspect. not so many but

speaker1: so you've finally seen sense and come back to your old job, vincent. 
speaker2: not yet, i'm afraid.
speaker1: no? what's keeping you?
speaker2: i guess i'm a slow learner.
speaker1: i guess so. well, while you're up there, maybe you could tidy the place up a bit.
speaker2: i'll see what i can do.
speaker1: and don't go getting everybody lost out there. you'll give us a bad name. you won't have me to keep an eye on you, you know.
speaker1: i'll take care of it.

speaker1: vincent-- 
speaker1: vincent, what are you running from?
speaker2: from vincent.
speaker1: has it been so long, you don't remember who i am?
speaker2: maybe it's

speaker1: i could ask 
speaker1: come with me now, vincent. you've gone as far as you can go.
speaker2: there are a few million miles to go yet.
speaker1: it's over.
speaker2: is that the only way you can succeed, anton, to see me fail?
speaker1: it's for the best.
speaker2: even
speaker1: you didn't beat me that day. i beat

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: quite something, isn't it? irene turns.
speaker2: that's where we get rid of the traces of him although we never truly succeeded.
speaker1: i've been looking for him. do you know where he is?
speaker2: he's probably leaving some more of me around the place before he goes.
speaker2: don't be deceived, irene. these are just the clothes. he has to wear them.
speaker1: what's wrong with him?
speaker2: you have more in common than you know.
speaker2: but they say

speaker1: here, take it. 
speaker1: if you're still interested, let me know.
speaker2: sorry, the wind caught it.

speaker1: a year is a long time. 
speaker2: not so long--just once around the sun.

speaker1: i have your samples ready. 
speaker2: have you forgotten? i don't need any samples where i'm going.
speaker1: everything you need to last you two lifetimes.
speaker1: there's an extra specimen. i wish i could give it to her myself.
speaker2: why have you done this?
speaker1: in case you get back before i do.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: i'm travelling too.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: i got the better end of the deal. i just lent you my body--you lent me your dream.
speaker1: not until you're upstairs.

speaker1: what's this, lamar? 
speaker2: new policy.
speaker2: flight got you nervous?
speaker1: there's a problem, lamar.
speaker2: for future reference-- --righthanded men don't hold it with their left. it's just one of those things.

