speaker1: what was that!? 
speaker2: i can't tell...

speaker1: ..."i'm laughing at clouds, so dark up above..." 
speaker1: ..."the sun's in my heart and i'm ready for love..."

speaker1: ..."let the cloudy skies chase..." 
speaker1: ..."i'm singin' in the mud, just scooping up my worms..."
speaker1: good day. i am here with permission...i have a, a... permit. how do you say permit?
speaker2: dr. nick topopolosis?
speaker1: it's tatopoulos.
speaker3: the worm guy, right? kyle terrington, u.s. state department.
speaker1: what are they doing?
speaker3: you've been reassigned.
speaker1: you can't shut me down now! my research here's not finished!
speaker3: it is now.

speaker1: the japanese consulate has been calling and we've been getting pressure from the americans. 
speaker2: what did you tell them?
speaker1: nothing yet.
speaker2: are there any other survivors?
speaker1: only one, sir. he was very lucky.

speaker1: ask him what happened. 
speaker1: what did you see, old man?
speaker2: gojira...gojira...
speaker3: i have no idea what he is saying.
speaker2: ...gojira!...gojira!...gojira!!

speaker1: dr. niko topopolosis? 
speaker2: it's tatopoulos.
speaker1: right. the worm guy. can someone get those people off the beach?
speaker2: excuse me, would you mind telling me what the i'm doing here?
speaker1: follow me.
speaker2: you didn't answer my question. in fact, for the last 18 hours no one has answered any of my questions.
speaker1: we have a situation on our hands that requires your particular expertise.

speaker1: look, i may work for the nuclear regulatory commission but accidents and spills are not my field. 
speaker2: we know.
speaker1: do you know that you just interrupted a three year study of the chernobyl earthworm?
speaker2: yeah, you're the worm guy.
speaker1: the radioactive contamination in that area altered the earthworm's dna! you have any idea what that means?
speaker2: no, but i have the feeling i'm about to find out.
speaker1: it means that due to a man made accident the chernobyl earthworms are now over seventeen percent larger than they were before. mutated by seventeen percent?
speaker2: seventeen percent, huh? sounds big.
speaker1: they're enormous! a new species created by man's recklessness. that's what i've been trying to tell you, i'm only a biologist. i take radioactive samples and study them.
speaker2: then you're perfect. here's your radioactive sample. study it.
speaker1: what sample?
speaker2: you're standing on it.
speaker1: i don't see it. where is it?
speaker1: i don't see it!

speaker1: that was a footprint. i was standing inside a footprint. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: but there's no animal in the world that can make prints like that? is there?
speaker2: we're hoping you're going to help us figure that out.
speaker1: somebody must have seen it.
speaker2: it happened so fast no one knew what hit them 'til is was over.

speaker1: a tanker was attacked and sunk yesterday near the french polynesians. 
speaker2: is that the tape of the witness?
speaker3: hi. nick tatopoulos...
speaker4: ah, elsie chapman, paleontologist.

speaker1: dr. craven, have you met the worm guy? 
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker3: ...gojira...gojira...gojira...
speaker1: what could have possibly done all that?

speaker1: and i'm supposed to remind you to call him on all of caiman's expense p.o.'s. 
speaker2: speak of the devil.
speaker2: oh girl...

speaker1: did you talk with humphries? 
speaker2: this is not the place...
speaker1: just tell me, did you talk with him?
speaker2: he said he'd consider it. it's between you and rodriguez.
speaker1: are you serious? he's going to consider me for he job? what else did he say?
speaker2: why don't i tell you over dinner tonight? your place.
speaker1: mr. caiman, you're married.
speaker2: and you're beautiful...
speaker1: mr. caiman...
speaker2: call me charlie.
speaker1: mr. caiman, i've been doing extra research for you after hours and weekends for nearly a year. and i've never asked for anything but this job is really important to me. i'm too old to be an assistant anymore. i need to know this job is going someplace.
speaker2: so have dinner with me tonight.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: it's your choice.

speaker1: three years digging up worms in chernobyl? how did mrs. tatopoulos handle it? 
speaker2: oh, i'm not married.
speaker1: really? a girlfriend then?
speaker2: no. perhaps i work too much.
speaker1: you mean to tell me that there is no one who holds a special place in your heart?
speaker2: not for a long time, now.
speaker1: well, i think you're cute.
speaker2: oh, thank you. is she always like this?
speaker3: i had to beat her off with a stick.

speaker1: who are they? lieutenant, get those people away from there. 
speaker2: they are with me!
speaker1: and who are you?
speaker2: chargeures, property and casualty insurance. we are preparing a report.
speaker1: you're fast.
speaker2: that is our job.
speaker1: well your people are getting in the way of my job.
speaker2: major, what do you think could have done this?
speaker1: get your people out of there or i will.

speaker1: you okay, nick? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm...wait...i lost...
speaker3: are you looking for this?
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: jerry, why are we slowing down? 
speaker2: she's heavy in the bunt.
speaker1: that was fast.

speaker1: the nets are full! 
speaker2: then bring 'em in!
speaker1: we can't. she won't budge!

speaker1: what is going on? 
speaker2: what the did we catch?
speaker3: cut us free! cut the nets!
speaker1: cut the cables!

speaker1: major, we just got a report of a fishing trawler going down. exact position, forty seven degrees latitude, 67 longitude. 
speaker2: what makes you think it's related?
speaker1: the trawler was pulled under.
speaker2: christ! it's only two hundred miles off the american eastern seaboard and we don't even know what it is.

speaker1: what about the traces of radiation? 
speaker1: the radiation is not an anomaly, it's the
speaker1: what do we know? it was first sighted off the french polynesian pacific. an area that has been exposed to dozens of nuclear tests over the last thirty years.
speaker2: hence the radiation.
speaker1: more than that. i believe this is a mutated aberration, a hybrid from the fall out in that region.
speaker3: like your earthworms?
speaker1: yes! we're looking at a completely incipient creature. the dawn of a new species. the first of its kind.

speaker1: my life 
speaker2: oh, please, your life doesn't suck.
speaker2: shut up. how can you eat like that?
speaker3: big bites.
speaker1: i can't believe he put the moves on me. after everything i've done for him.
speaker2: he's scum! as far as he's concerned you're just a pair of that talk.
speaker3: i like that image.
speaker1: you know how i spent last weekend?
speaker2: i'm telling you he's dirt. he's a douche bag, gutter slime, dog crap, puke chunks...
speaker3: hey, hey! i'm eating here!
speaker2: audrey, you're too nice, that's your problem. nice gets you nothin' in this town. you gotta be a killer to get ahead, you know what i'm sayin'? i'm sorry, baby, but you just don't got what it takes.
speaker1: animal, you don't think that's true, do you?
speaker3: nice guys finish last. first rule of the jungle.
speaker1: well, i can be tough if i want.
speaker4: yeah, sure.
speaker1: oh my
speaker1: it's nick! i know that guy. i know him!
speaker2: who is he?
speaker1: he was my college sweetie! look at him. he looks so handsome on t.v. what the is he doing in panama.

speaker1: i'd like to thank you all for coming out on this beautiful new york city day. 
speaker1: when i came into office four years ago, people didn't think we could reduce crime and i did.
speaker2: yeah,
speaker1: ...and i did. the city is a safer place today...

speaker1: mr. caiman. i think your story just walked by the window. 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: did romeo have a name? 
speaker2: nick tatopoulos.
speaker3: that why you dumped him?
speaker2: no! i just couldn't see myself with some boring egg head who spends his summer picking apart cockroaches. i wanted to have some adventure, some fun...
speaker1: and now you live the glamorous life of caiman's assistant. life's a ain't it?
speaker3: how long where you and dis guy goin' steady?
speaker2: nearly four years...
speaker1: four years. girl, i'm surprised he didn't ask you to marry him.
speaker2: that's the problem. he did.
speaker1: tell me that's not another parade.

speaker1: sergeant o'neal, sir. 
speaker2: any word from the mayor's office?
speaker1: they've agreed to evacuate the city. they've called out the national guard and riot police are on alert.
speaker3: evacuate manhattan? that's over three million people. has that ever been done before?
speaker4: i don't think so.
speaker2: status report?
speaker1: we've lost sight of it, sir.
speaker2: you want to run that by me again?
speaker1: after the initial attack he just...disappeared.
speaker5: major, secretary of defense burk on the line. this takes major hicks off guard. the last person he wants to talk to. nick walks over to the sergeant.
speaker4: i don't understand. how can something that large just disappear?
speaker1: we're not sure. we're scanning the area now.
speaker3: he probably returned to the river. just like everywhere else we've been, we're always one step behind.
speaker4: i don't think so.
speaker4: i mean, look at it. it's perfect. an island, water on all sides. but like no other island in the world, this is a place where he can easily hide. he's in there someplace.
speaker6: channel eight caught it on film!
speaker7: ...wnew's exclusive images of the creature were taken less than a half hour ago. nick and elsie's jaws nearly hit the floor at the sight of the immense creature.
speaker7: cameraman victor "animal" palotti barely survived this vicious attack to provide us with this footage.

speaker1: way to go animal! that's my man! 
speaker2: great stuff, animal. weren't you scared?
speaker3: sure i was. i thought lucy was gonna kill me.
speaker4: right, you crazy wop!
speaker5: people! we have to be completely relocated to the new jersey station before our 5:30 broadcast. okay, caiman, devoe and animal, you're on the helicopter. everyone else we'll see you in jersey.
speaker3: gotta go, honey. you guys gonna be all right?
speaker4: audrey's going to stay with us tonight.
speaker3: great. see ya then.

speaker1: caiman, wait. take me with you. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i've got something on this. i know a guy on the inside with the military...
speaker2: not now. you got my bag?
speaker1: you don't understand, i can get us information...
speaker2: listen, this is the time when the big boys have to go to work, okay honey?
speaker2: the bag?
speaker3: come on, girl, we've gotta go!

speaker1: ...in what city officials are calling the worst act of destruction since the world trade tower bombing... 
speaker1: ...police and the national guard have quarantined off over twenty square city blocks...

speaker1: i don't understand why we have to leave our homes. it's over already, isn't it? 
speaker2: what are we running from? a big lizard? i've got cockroaches in my building that could kick the out of it.

speaker1: who the are they? 
speaker2: it's a contingent of building owners and community business representatives.
speaker1: i don't have time for this nonsense.
speaker2: most of them are campaign contributors.

speaker1: i share your concerns. i want to get the city back in business as soon as possible. 
speaker2: who waits for the mayor. the mayor is momentarily stopped.
speaker2: chargures insurance. we represent nearly thirteen percent of the buildings in your city.
speaker1: if you'll excuse me...
speaker2: we are very happy that you are in control of this situation.
speaker2: you can count on our emotional and financial support.
speaker1: oh, well, thank you very much.

speaker1: hurry, we're going to miss the mayor. 
speaker2: sorry, you gotta have a press id past this point.
speaker1: don't you watch t.v.?
speaker2: can we see your press pass, sir?
speaker1: i had one here on my bag. where the did i put it?

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: remember my friend we saw on t.v.?
speaker1: your old sweetheart?
speaker2: yeah, well he just turned up in new jersey at the military command post. somehow all this is related to what happened down in panama. there's a story here. i know it. you got any tape or glue?
speaker1: i left my forgery kit back at the office.
speaker2: hey, do you have any glue in your bag?
speaker3: what's it to you?
speaker2: can i use some?
speaker3: what do i get?
speaker2: the warm feeling of helping your fellow man.
speaker3: five bucks.
speaker2: you're kidding, right?
speaker4: please exit the station. for those of you without accommodations, the city has opened up shelters on monroe and 60th and at bergenline and 72nd. please exit the...
speaker2: wish me luck!
speaker1: audrey, i don't think this is a very good idea. caiman finds out and he'll have your job.
speaker2: i'm tired of waiting for someone else to give me an opportunity, luce. if there's a story here i'm going to find it.

speaker1: merci. 
speaker1: you call this coffee?
speaker2: i call this america.
speaker3: you're telling me that in an election month i've evacuated the entire city for nothing?

speaker1: do you realize what this evacuation will cost the people of this city!? 
speaker2: we're been monitoring the waters around the island. as far as we can tell it hasn't left the area.
speaker1: but you don't know for sure.
speaker3: we think there's a strong reason to believe it may be hiding inside one of the buildings within the sequestered area.
speaker1: but you
speaker4: sir, that may be more difficult than we originally projected.
speaker5: more good news?!
speaker4: we've run into a problem.

speaker1: we were checking the office building above when we discovered the floor was gone. 
speaker1: when we learned he could burrow his way through the tunnels we realized he could be out of the quarantined zone.
speaker2: christ. how many tunnels lead off the island?
speaker1: only five, sir. we've checked them all. he hasn't used any of them.
speaker2: have them sealed off.
speaker1: and how should we do that, sir?
speaker2: fill them with cement, brick them up, put land mines in them, bombs, i don't know, just make sure that thing doesn't leave the island!

speaker1: you know, he's not an enemy trying to evade you. he's just an animal. 
speaker2: what are you suggesting?
speaker1: when i needed to catch earthworms, i knew the best way to catch them was not to chase them. i had to draw them out.

speaker1: where are they now? 
speaker2: delta niner, what is convoy position?

speaker1: you said this was french roast! 
speaker1: more cream.

speaker1: i sure hope your plan works. 
speaker2: i'm kind of hoping the same thing.

speaker1: tres bizarre. 
speaker2: no. very clever.

speaker1: i need your radio. 
speaker1: sergeant o'neal, the subway vents. we have to shut them down...
speaker1: ...with the air pressure pushing up, he'll never smell the bait!
speaker2: get some men down into those air vents. shut 'em down!

speaker1: commence phase one. let's gas it! 
speaker2: let 'em fly!

speaker1: o'neal, what the is going on there!? 
speaker2: he's gone, sir. echo division's in pursuit.

speaker1: jimmy, let's go. 
speaker2: wait. i want this. help me!

speaker1: we have him, locked on. 
speaker2: then fire it!

speaker1: that is a negative impact. 
speaker2: negative impact!?! it's the chrysler building, that's what it is!
speaker3: you said he was locked on!
speaker1: the heat seekers can't lock. he's colder than the buildings around him.

speaker1: i don't know sir. he just vanished. 
speaker1: oh

speaker1: i can't believe it. he did all this and we did nothing to him. 
speaker2: that's not true. we fed him.

speaker1: while it may have looked like beirut, it was in fact, manhattan where man and nature have collided with brute force. 
speaker1: the president today declared a state of emergency and has issued disaster relief funds to new york city.

speaker1: ...rumors continue to mount as to the origin of this, perhaps, lost dinosaur... 
speaker2: ...having shut down the united nations in the evacuation, foreign diplomats are demanding an international coalition be assembled to track the creature...
speaker3: ...maintaining a total media blackout, officials remain silent this evening as to their progress in containing this creature...

speaker1: can i help you, young man? 
speaker2: do you have any home pregnancy tests? especially ones that test for catastrophic hormones or clomiphene citrate.
speaker1: this is all we've got.
speaker2: i'll take them all.
speaker3: you must have quite some harem.
speaker2: audrey?! is that you? hi, hello. you look, wow, uh, how've you been?
speaker3: it's good to see you, nick.
speaker2: so you made it.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you're a reporter. that's what you always wanted to be, right? i'm happy for you. really, i am.
speaker3: yeah, well...

speaker1: so, you still picking apart cockroaches? 
speaker2: no, i'm into earthworms now. you wouldn't be interested. they're real "boring" creatures. very reliable, dependable, no surprises...
speaker1: you're still mad at me, aren't you?
speaker2: you just left me without a phone call, a letter, nothing. all this time.
speaker1: that was eight years ago. some people change, you know.
speaker2: most people don't.
speaker1: i'm sorry you feel that way.
speaker2: wait. i'm sorry. you're right. eight years is a long time. can i offer you a cup of tea?
speaker1: sure. i'd like that.
speaker1: one, thing, though. who'd you get pregnant?

speaker1: i still can't believe it. how does a guy go from an anti-nuke activists to working for the nuclear regulatory commission? 
speaker2: when you and i use to attend rallies in college, we helped to create awareness. but from the inside now i can actually effect change. i never lost my idealism.
speaker1: and exactly what changes are you trying to effect?
speaker2: i have this theory that we're inadvertently creating new species as a direct result of what we've done to nature.
speaker1: and you think this creature is one of them?
speaker2: yes. the first of its kind. i found this blood sample earlier this evening...
speaker1: blood sample? how close did you get to that thing?
speaker2: i got pretty close.
speaker1: what else do you know about it?
speaker2: well, we know he eats fish, he's of reptile genus, he's a burrower, he's amphibious and...
speaker2: ...he's
speaker2: well, obviously these tests weren't designed for this but fundamentally they're looking for the same hormonal patterns that would indicate pregnancy.
speaker1: i don't get it. if it's the first of its kind, how can it be pregnant?
speaker2: the ultimate expression of evolution, it reproduces asexually. think about it, all kinds of creatures have been known to travel great distances for reproduction. that's why he came to new york. like every species of insufficient progenitors, he's nesting!
speaker1: nesting?
speaker2: yes. do you realize that a creature like this could lay as many as a dozen eggs at a time!
speaker2: forgive me but i've got to get this into the lab, to confirm all this. i'll be right back.

speaker1: ...gojira...gojira... 
speaker2: audrey? audrey?

speaker1: ...which is why in this case "all the kings horses and all the kings men" may not be able to put the big apple together again. audrey timmons, wnew. we pull back to reveal audrey, animal and an editor, ed, watching the piece. 
speaker2: that's it. you owe me a breakfast.
speaker1: so, what do you think?
speaker3: it's good. it's a real good piece. but how'd you get a hold of this material?
speaker1: like you said, "good guys finish last."

speaker1: murray, i need you to look at this tape. 
speaker2: not now, audrey, we've about to go live with the morning report.
speaker1: you're going to want to include this. i've got exclusive footage of other places this thing has attacked.
speaker2: you do? who's story is this?
speaker1: mine!

speaker1: taisez-vous. 
speaker2: ...major hicks, what makes you believe another attempt to gun that creature down will work?

speaker1: general anderson, the problem was the terrain. if we lure him out into a more open area such as this portion of central park... we should be able to take him down. 
speaker2: last time you didn't even scratch it!
speaker1: that's not true. our worm guy, er, i mean, dr. tatopoulos found blood.
speaker3: well, yes. i did. clearly he was injured and bled.
speaker1: you see, all we need to do is get a better shot at it with weapons that don't rely on heat seeking...
speaker3: um, excuse me, sir, but the situation's more complicated than that. the blood i recovered revealed that the creature is either about to lay eggs or already has.
speaker4: are you trying to tell us there's
speaker2: then how can it be pregnant? what is this, the "virgin lizard?" there's a smattering of laughter in the room.
speaker3: no, it reproduces asexually. that's why we must find the nest. if we don't, dozens will be born, each one capable of laying eggs of its own. very quickly we could be looking at an enormous population.
speaker1: so after we kill the creature we'll begin a search for the nest.
speaker3: it may be too late by then. these eggs will hatch very quickly.
speaker5: how could you possible know that?
speaker3: the fish. the fish we found down in the subway. he's not gathering all that food for himself. he's preparing to feed his young.

speaker1: if dr. tatopoulos is right, we must act quickly before this problem escalates. 
speaker2: you want to divide our efforts based solely on a wild theory?
speaker1: he's come through for us before and if he feels strongly...
speaker2: come through for you!? major, your campaign's a disaster. you weren't even able to to prevent this thing from coming to manhattan.
speaker3: excuse me gentlemen, but i think we should see this.
speaker2: how the did this get out?
speaker4: from an old japanese sailor's song called

speaker1: merde! 
speaker2: allez, allez!
speaker3: ...a path can be traced back from manhattan, to jamaica, back to panama and all the way back to the french polynesians where nuclear testing has been going on for over twenty years...

speaker1: ...but why? research team member dr. niko padopolus believes the creature is nesting, using manhattan as ground zero to cultivate his species... 
speaker2: you went to the press with this?
speaker3: no, i didn't...i didn't talk with anyone.
speaker2: they mentioned you by name!
speaker3: yes...but i...
speaker4: you gave them the tape?
speaker3: no, it's still in my tent. it's...oh my she took it.
speaker2: pack your stuff. you're officially off this project as of now.
speaker5: he stole my report! that's
speaker1: ...and in this reporter's opinion, "all the kings horses and all the kings men"...
speaker5: caiman you suck!

speaker1: i'm sorry about all this. 
speaker2: me too.
speaker2: make sure they find that nest before it's too late.
speaker1: i'll try.
speaker1: bye worm guy.

speaker1: where to? 
speaker2: newark airport.
speaker3: you're leaving? why?
speaker3: is this cause of me? because of the story?
speaker2: well what the did you
speaker2: i shouldn't have to, audrey. you're supposed to be my friend. i trusted you.
speaker3: i didn't mean for it to turn out like this. look, i lied to you. i'm not a reporter. when we broke up and i came out to new york i was so sure i'd make it. but i haven't. that's why i needed this story so bad. i just couldn't tell you i'm a failure.
speaker2: so you thought that made it okay to steal my tapes?
speaker2: good luck in your new career. i think

speaker1: we see images from crowed refugee shelters. 
speaker2: ...every shelter in the tri-state area has been overflowing with displaced people. tent cities have begun to spring up all over the county... as we track away from the t.v. we find nick taking a seat at a small bar next to the gate. a waiter comes over.
speaker3: can i get you something?
speaker4: pernot, no ice.
speaker5: do i know you?
speaker4: we've met before.
speaker5: oh yeah, the insurance guy.
speaker4: sdece, service de documentation exterieure et de contre-espionnage.
speaker5: sounds like a big company.
speaker4: it's the french secret service.
speaker5: oh.
speaker4: we have learned that your american friends have decided not to look for the creature's nest.
speaker5: are you sure? how do you know?
speaker4: we know.
speaker5: why are you telling this to me?
speaker4: i need you to trust me.
speaker5: why do you need that?
speaker4: i need your trust if you're to help me find the nest.
speaker5: oh, my bags. i've checked them in.
speaker4: we, have already taken care of them.
speaker4: bon chance!

speaker1: how did you get all of this stuff into the country? 
speaker2: this is america. there is nothing you can not buy.
speaker1: so why all the secrecy? why aren't you guys working
speaker1: you said you wanted my trust, then i need yours.
speaker2: i am a patriot. i love my country. can you understand that?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: it is my job to protect my country. sometimes i must even protect it from itself. from mistakes we have made. mistakes that we do not want the world to know about.
speaker1: your talking about the nuclear testing in the pacific.
speaker2: yes. this testing done by my country left a terrible mess. we are here to clean it up.

speaker1: they will set the trap at thirty minutes to ten. 
speaker2: that is when we will go in.
speaker2: we know how to get into the city. we just do not know where to start looking.
speaker3: here. 23rd street subway station. where we first found the fish. with a little luck, this will lead us right to it.
speaker2: so you're in?
speaker3: are you kidding? i always wanted to join the french foreign legion.

speaker1: who the are all these people? 
speaker2: what? i just couldn't just let them sleep in the street.
speaker1: where's audrey?
speaker2: in the bedroom. crying her eyes out because of you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: all that "you gotta be vicious" stuff you filled her head with.
speaker1: me!? you where the one...
speaker2: go in there. talk to her.

speaker1: that's why i'm holding this conference. to try and avoid a needless panic. 
speaker1: contrary to some frivolous reports, we have no information to lead us to believe that there are any eggs of the creature in the city.
speaker2: stupid idiots!
speaker3: you okay?
speaker2: it's all my fault. what have i done, animal? what have i become? look at me. this isn't me. i don't do things like this.
speaker3: you made a mistake.
speaker2: yeah, i just screwed up with the only man who ever really cared about me.
speaker3: didn't you tell me he left for the airport?
speaker2: yeah. why are you asking?
speaker3: i just saw him. he's with a bunch of guys who want to sneak into the city tonight.
speaker2: my he's going after the nest.
speaker3: perfect! you wanted a story, well, baby, you got one.
speaker2: animal, i can't.
speaker3: look, you want to make it up to your friend? well if he's right, this is your chance.
speaker2: i don't know. i've already made such a mess of things...
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: lucy'd kill me if she knew.

speaker1: what's with the chewing gum? 
speaker2: makes us look more american.
speaker1: just let me do all the talking.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: it's the maintenance entrance. runs along the side of the tunnel. when they repaired it last year i worked on a piece about it.

speaker1: who you boys with? 
speaker2: oh, we're with the three two.
speaker1: i didn't ask you, soldier.
speaker2: sergeant o'neal just called down for us to join in.
speaker3: why no sir, i'm fine.
speaker1: all right, keep it moving.
speaker3: thank you very much.
speaker3: elvis presley movies. he was the king!

speaker1: they've turned off the ventilation system. they're calling him to dinner. 
speaker2: let's hope we are not the hors d'oeuvres.

speaker1: don't worry. the navy has a little something there waiting for him. 
speaker2: in the murky waters of the hudson river.

speaker1: are we locked on? 
speaker2: locked on, captain.
speaker1: fire.

speaker1: he's shifted course. he's heading right at us! 
speaker2: full stern!

speaker1: we've lost the coolidge, sir. 
speaker2: he's shifted course, sir. he's heading back towards manhattan.
speaker3: full ahead. close in and lock on.

speaker1: locked on, sir. 
speaker2: fire!

speaker1: i think we should leave now. 
speaker2: good idea.

speaker1: don't you think we have enough? 
speaker2: yes. definitely. definitely enough.
speaker2: just be calm. don't startle them.

speaker1: come on, let's go. 
speaker2: one moment. i've almost got this.

speaker1: dozens and dozens of eggs hatching. babyzillas 
speaker2: we've got to lock them inside while we can.
speaker2: contact the military and get them to send a bomber to blow up this building before these things escape.
speaker3: how do i do that?
speaker2: 555-7600. tell them it's a code dragonfly. they should get you through.
speaker2: what are you waiting for?
speaker4: ...all circuits are busy right now.

speaker1: do you have any idea what's going on out there? the phones are ringing off the hook with people screaming to be let back into the city. 
speaker2: we're sending divers into the river now to retrieve the body.
speaker1: that thing's dead. what the are we waiting for?
speaker3: major, if nick
speaker1: you don't have the authority to do that.
speaker2: try and stop me.

speaker1: what'd they say? 
speaker2: i can't get through. i don't know what's wrong.
speaker3: ...all circuits are busy right now...
speaker4: we've secured the doors on both levels.
speaker1: where's luc and pierre?
speaker4: they didn't make it.
speaker1: nick, my men and i will hold them here. you will have to go and get help! nick nods in agreement and takes off down stairs. the rest of the team snap together their automatic rifles and prepare for a fight.

speaker1: there's got to be another way out of here. 
speaker2: think we can fit up in there?
speaker1: only one way to find out.

speaker1: come on, come on. 
speaker1: this is not good.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: they're loose. they're allover the main lobby. i couldn't get out.
speaker1: who the are you?
speaker2: it's okay. i know her.
speaker3: hey! what gives?
speaker1: no cameras.
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker4: i thought you said there'd only be a dozen eggs.
speaker2: i was wrong.
speaker1: do you have a radio, a walkie-talkie? anything we can use to contact the outside.
speaker4: what about the phones?
speaker2: circuits are overloaded.
speaker4: this way.

speaker1: come on, the broadcast booth is right over here. 
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: our network covers the ranger games.

speaker1: the network is on an intranet. it's a direct feed into our computer system. 
speaker2: your station won't have any easier time contacting the military than i did.
speaker3: when you worked with them, did they monitor the news broadcasts?
speaker2: yes, they did.
speaker3: we'll go live! we'll broadcast from here. hopefully they'll see it.

speaker1: ...if you're seeing this, ed, please put us on live! this is urgent! i know this sounds crazy ed but you have to do it. please, trust me. 
speaker2: i'm not putting you on live!

speaker1: he's not going to do it. 
speaker2: oh yes he will.
speaker1: ed, you see that? they'll be all over the city if we don't stop them!

speaker1: ...as our fears have been allayed thanks to the dedicated work of our boys in uniform... everyone in the room begins to cheer. suddenly caiman's image goes fuzzy. in a moment it's replaced by audrey. 
speaker2: are we on? are we live?

speaker1: we're live from inside madison square garden where dr. niko tatopoulos has discovered the beasts lair. doctor, tell us what is happening here. 
speaker2: we've discovered over two hundred eggs which began hatching only moments ago.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: you better see this.
speaker3: if the military are listening, they must immediately destroy this building before they can escape.
speaker4: oh my they're coming!

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: if those creatures escape and multiply, in a very short time a new species will emerge. one that could replace us as the dominant species of this planet.
speaker3: that's correct, i want you to blow up madison square garden. no i'm not drunk. contact the news station. tell them we're on the way.

speaker1: that's my girl. 
speaker2: thanks, audrey. the computer beeps, animal reads the message.
speaker3: the good news is they got the message. the bad news is we've got five and a half minutes to get out of the building.
speaker4: okay, party's over. time to leave.
speaker4: anyone care to join me?

speaker1: go! now! 
speaker2: stallion 15, fox 6.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: somehow i never thought your life was this exciting.
speaker1: you'd be surprised.
speaker2: really? i'd like to find out.
speaker3: hey man, you all right?
speaker4: i could use a coffee.
speaker3: what do we do?
speaker4: running would be a good idea.

speaker1: cut uptown, take 8th to 57th then cut up broadway. 
speaker2: you're crazy, go to the east side and take the park avenue to the jfk.
speaker1: the jfk? in the rain!?

speaker1: what are you talking about? the east side is always faster. 
speaker2: but we can get to the west side faster.
speaker3: somebody make up your mind!
speaker4: take central park!

speaker1: gaining on them godzilla is in hot pursuit. 
speaker2: better step on it frenchie!

speaker1: what the hell....? 
speaker1: command, command, this sergeant o'neal. he's back!
speaker2: captain rogers, do we still have those f-18's in the air?
speaker3: they're heading back to base now, sir.
speaker2: turn 'em around.

speaker1: anyone see him. 
speaker2: running full boar directly at them.

speaker1: gun it! gun it! 
speaker2: i'm trying!

speaker1: how did you discover the nest? dr. tatopoulis, can you tell us what happened back there? 
speaker2: sorry, guys, i've promised my story as an exclusive to another reporter.
speaker3: we did it! we've got the exclusive!
speaker4: we? i don't think so.
speaker3: i want that story, audrey. remember you work for me.
speaker4: not anymore. mr. caiman, i quit.
speaker5: audrey, did you take the tape out of the camera?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: where's raymond?
speaker5: i couldn't have just lost it?
speaker2: hello?
speaker6: it's raymond.
speaker2: where are you?
speaker6: tell your friends i will send the tape after i remove a few items from it.
speaker7: nick nods to audrey that it's raymond.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker6: i just wanted to say, au revoir and thank you for your help, my friend.
speaker2: wait. au revoir.
speaker4: who was that french guy, anyway.
speaker2: oh, just some insurance guy.

