speaker1: i think we can begin... first parole request carter "doc" mccoy... is legal counsel present? 
speaker2: yes. eugene stewart representing mr.
speaker3: watching... taking it all in.
speaker1: carter mccoy, one to five years sentence for armed robbery, first offense in the state of texas, wanted by the state of ohio for assault with a deadly weapon and armed robbery...
speaker2: the state of ohio has waved jurisdiction, mr. chairman. they no longer seek mr. mccoy in connection with that case.
speaker1: remarks?

speaker1: we would only again like to call the committee's attention to mr. mccoy's satisfactory behavior as a prisoner. 
speaker2: notice is taken.
speaker2: the board met in closed chambers last week... have you reached a decision regarding mr. mccoy's request for parole?
speaker3: his face is taut.
speaker4: request for parole is denied. the prisoner may re-apply in one calendar year.
speaker3: lowers his eyes, then looks up at his lawyer. the lawyer avoids doc's glance., he shuffles the papers in front of him, begins stuffing them into his briefcase.

speaker1: very well. the next request for parole is from john doty. is legal counsel present? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: mr. doty is serving five to twelve years for embezzlement of corporate funds.

speaker1: hello, doc. 
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker1: it's been raining a lot the last few days.
speaker1: we'll try again.
speaker2: no way. i've got to get out now.
speaker2: do it now.

speaker1: i want to see jack beynon. 
speaker2: go right in, mrs. mccoy.

speaker1: class - regular? 
speaker2: no. doc mccoy's old lady.

speaker1: carol ainsley? 
speaker2: the very same.
speaker1: the doctor took out mcgovern for her.
speaker2: she only rides winning - class easy class.
speaker3: shut up.

speaker1: ready to talk about my husband, mr. 
speaker2: so the good doctor comes up again. please sit down.
speaker1: he's asked me to come and see you.
speaker2: why? can i help?

speaker1: hello, doc. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker1: you want to drive?
speaker2: my license expired, let's get out of here.
speaker1: sure...

speaker1: i'm sorry i was late... i got my hair done... the girl was slow. 
speaker2: it looks fine.
speaker1: feel good?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: where do you want to go?
speaker1: i want to take a walk.

speaker1: it doesn't look like that. 
speaker2: what do you mean? you've never been there.
speaker1: i've been there every day for the last four years.
speaker1: what's beynon got set up?
speaker2: small town, small bank, big money.
speaker1: where did you get those?
speaker2: i've been doing my homework.
speaker1: just like old times?
speaker2: better than old times.
speaker1: i hope so. i am not looking forward to another stretch.
speaker2: i made a mistake. i'll never make another one.
speaker1: where did you get them developed?

speaker1: assumed name... houston. 
speaker2: good.
speaker3: how much is the score?
speaker1: half a million.
speaker2: that beynon's got a long arm.
speaker1: what do you want for dinner?
speaker2: whisky and a peach.
speaker1: how does it taste?
speaker2: just the way i remembered.
speaker2: you been okay?
speaker1: pretty good... made a quick trip to oregon, saw my brother and the kids. figured it would be my last chance, unless they wanted to travel.
speaker2: how's estelle?
speaker1: fatter... some things never change.

speaker1: boring. 
speaker2: nothing's been boring since you found me.
speaker1: that's not all of it.
speaker2: no. it's been a long time.
speaker1: you go out much?
speaker2: after four years and now the question comes up.
speaker1: couldn't handle it then. now i can.
speaker2: i'm still here, doc.

speaker1: i guess i'm kind of... 
speaker2: it's all right.
speaker1: it's just been a while.
speaker2: we've got time. we've got a lot of time. i can help you. she stands, begins to remove her skirt.
speaker1: wait... give me a minute.
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: i'll be okay.
speaker2: listen, i'm just as nervous as you are.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: really.
speaker2: let me make you feel good, doctor.

speaker1: how was it? 
speaker2: better than i remembered.

speaker1: i was going to fix you breakfast. 
speaker2: you were asleep.
speaker1: i bought you a lot of new things.
speaker2: yeah, well, i think i'll stick with what i've got.
speaker1: suit yourself.
speaker2: how much does beynon get?
speaker1: $250,000 right off the top.
speaker2: is he straight?
speaker1: you got the parole, didn't you?

speaker1: thanks again. i 'm glad you waited. 
speaker2: i couldn't have... much longer.
speaker1: yeah... i know.
speaker2: but i got you out. didn't i, doc. i did it. i got you out.
speaker1: why are you laughing?
speaker2: i laugh when i feel happy. sometimes just thinking of you made me laugh. i had a lot of that. and other times that wasn't enough. i had a lot of that too. i know you find it hard to believe, i'm happy just loving you.
speaker1: that doesn't hurt.
speaker2: but sometimes i cried a lot too.
speaker1: i didn't. i just waited.
speaker2: want to cry now?

speaker1: you gotta be kidding. 
speaker2: not at all, just a pleasant way to have lunch. doc sits.
speaker2: glad to see you in civilian clothes.
speaker1: all it takes is a long arm.
speaker2: hard to judge how these things happen. the parole board almost never reverses their decisions.
speaker1: i guess it was because i was a model prisoner.
speaker2: this is the only time you and i meet in public. any business with me, handle it with him...
speaker2: you're back with your own people now. got you some professionals.
speaker1: i get my own help.

speaker1: what about them? 
speaker2: they're mine. the one with the moustache is my brother. they stay out of it. we stay clean. as the two men arrive...
speaker2: rudy butler, frank jackson...
speaker1: i heard about you. you work with miller.
speaker3: you're out of touch. cops blew him up.
speaker1: where?
speaker3: chicago.
speaker1: you were with him?
speaker3: yeah. i got out.

speaker1: what about you? 
speaker2: i was backup man on a payroll job. i hit some liquor stores... i drive good.
speaker3: i drive.
speaker1: sure, you're working on the passports... ... and visas?
speaker4: they will be ready. you guys do your job.
speaker1: i'll take care of my end.
speaker4: stay clean.

speaker1: ... bank president, three tellers and one guard... 
speaker2: usually on the right side as you go in.
speaker1: nail him first, be careful he doesn't panic and want to shoot somebody. local police have one car, a rover, shouldn't be in the vicinity at the time we hit unless it's answering an emergency call... if the cop car shows up remember it doesn't have any automatic weapons. only a shotgun braced on the dashboard. get into a tight spot, you'll be out of range at forty yards. then they're down to their side guns.
speaker2: for exits off main street.
speaker1: should be light traffic that time of day... the bank guard carries a .38.

speaker1: just in case someone gets a shot off. 
speaker2: i worked ten years without one, i don't need one now.
speaker1: suit yourself.
speaker2: okay. how many bank exits?
speaker1: two.
speaker2: what about the vault?
speaker1: chambers - reilly. time lock opens 20 minutes before they start doing business...
speaker2: wire pull over?
speaker1: one-inch stuff on a three-number combination.
speaker2: i'm good at that.
speaker1: i 'm handling the fine stuff. you're back up all the way...
speaker2: whatever you need.
speaker1: keep going over these. i don't want anybody getting lost.

speaker1: if we are clean gollie will take us over at nogales. if we are hot we'll have to try laughlin at el paso. 
speaker2: i'll hang on to these. we don't need them till we get to gollieâ«s. okay. any questions?
speaker3: aren't we going a little hard?
speaker2: what do you have in mind?
speaker3: it's just a walk-in bank. you don't have to be dillinger for this one.
speaker2: dillinger got killed.
speaker2: tell beynon i want no mistakes.
speaker4: i understand.
speaker2: beynon has to be alone at the drop ... one car at the ranch and that's it. i won't have the money... she won't know where it is until i'm sure it's clear.
speaker4: he understands.
speaker2: make sure everybody does.

speaker1: you know how i feel? 
speaker2: my mind's not on guessing games.
speaker1: promise you won't laugh.
speaker2: if it's funny i'm going to laugh.
speaker1: i feel like the night before the first day of school.
speaker2: that bad?
speaker2: you promised not to laugh.
speaker1: it will be such a relief not to have to think about it any more.
speaker2: waiting's hard. you never learn how.
speaker1: you know i've actually gotten tired waiting sometimes... worn out waiting.
speaker2: at least you were outside.
speaker1: it doesn!t make much difference where you are, if you're waiting, doc.

speaker1:  
speaker2: i mean it.
speaker1: i know you do. but it is different. it's different. we'll be all right tomorrow.
speaker2: we are always going to be all right tomorrow. i'd like to be all right a few todays.
speaker1: we're going to have a lot of those, we're just going to get the money and then go all the way.
speaker2: ... and live happily ever after.

speaker1: just pick it up. 
speaker2: don't!

speaker1: what about the bank? 
speaker2: jackson panicked and nailed the guard.

speaker1: we got between four and five. 
speaker2: doc...
speaker1: i see it...

speaker1: they're looking for three men... remember? 
speaker1: what's the problem?

speaker1: they checked in. 
speaker2: call the ranch, tell beynotr we'll leave his cut here --

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: there are three men dead.
speaker1: so what. i've got to give him his money. that was our end of the deal.
speaker2: he might be ready to chop us up.
speaker1: do it my way.

speaker1: tell me about beynon's ranch. 
speaker2: i've never "been there... when we met it was in his office. doc looks at her for a moment.
speaker2: do you trust him?
speaker1: i just figure the percentages. he wouldn't try a cross until he's got the money.
speaker2: let's send his cut back -- just keep going.
speaker1: if we make a mistake., he'll burn us. you make a deal, you're always better keeping your end up.
speaker2: i don't want to go there.

speaker1: hello, mccoy. 
speaker2: beynon.
speaker1: news said two persons killed.
speaker2: three... rudy got ambitious.
speaker1: and you got him...
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: what about your wife?
speaker2: what about her? let's c ut up the money, i want to get north.

speaker1: your wife told me no one would be killed. 
speaker2: you hired jackson and rudy., not me.
speaker1: they may nail me into this now, mccoy.
speaker2: that's your problem.
speaker1: you know, you and i may be two of a kind.
speaker2: no way. i always do my own work.
speaker1: here. i understand the way you feel. as a matter of fact, you and i might share a great many feelings...
speaker2: i'm in a hurry.
speaker1: you still don't get the picture do you? i've always heard what a smart operator you are.
speaker2: no applause!

speaker1: let's examine the situation. one, an extremely attractive woman. then, there's the woman's husband, a skillful bank robber serving a long sentence in prison. three, a man with political influence, a man who can easily get a parole for a convict... why should he? 
speaker1: a simple reason, mccoy. the obvious reason. to rob a bank.
speaker2: i knew that life didn't add up to the obvious when i was 8.
speaker1: what do you add up to here?
speaker2: one. the radio's rappin' about $750^000. we only got a half a million.
speaker1: a little more was taken out before. my brother's a director of that bank, mr.
speaker2: so we did that crackerbox... to cover for you.
speaker1: the obvious. but we are both not interested in that right now.
speaker2: no. my old lady must have made a lot of promises.

speaker1: close... but it takes a of a lot more than promises to pull the kind of strings i pulled. 
speaker2: i bet.
speaker1: you wouldn't have come here when you were eight3 mr. mccoy.
speaker1: don't think too badly of her... after all, you were in jail a long time and she is a healthy young woman.
speaker2: get it over with...

speaker1: stupid. 
speaker1: why didn't you tell me?
speaker2: there wasn't any way to explain it.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you sent me to him.
speaker1: when i got out, why didn't you tell me where it was?

speaker1: what the do you want? mary tyler moore? 
speaker2: who's she?
speaker1: she's on tv.
speaker2: if you don't start telling the truth...
speaker1: what do we do?
speaker2: we keep going.

speaker1: two day coach tickets -- on the flyer. 
speaker2: thirty-four fifty-six with tax leaves in forty-five minutes, gate three.

speaker1: kind of tricky, isn't it? 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: no trouble lady.

speaker1: what's the damage? 
speaker2: collar bone is broken. no infection yet... the bandages should be changed twice a day.
speaker1: i got a nurse in mind.
speaker2: the glucose will begin working in half an hour. you'll feel better then...
speaker1: the three of us are going to do some traveling. we're going to take your car to el paso.
speaker2: that's not possible. we can't leave here... we've got all this.

speaker1: is it possible, mrs. clinton? 
speaker2: just... tell us what you want.
speaker1: what kind of car do you have, harold?
speaker2: a ford... we have a ford.
speaker1: that's good. that's very good. now harold, you go out and gas up the ford, check the oil and tires, we don't want any problems on the road. one more thing... if anybody but you comes back...
speaker1: she gets her clock fixed right away... you understand that, harold?
speaker2: you do what he says, harold.
speaker1: after you come back i'll listen while you make some phone calls, tell a few friends you've got to leave for a week or two... you have to call another vet about the animals. you tell him to come over and take good care of them starting tomorrow... no slip-ups on that. they got to be looked after...
speaker3: we really don't have too many friends.

speaker1: they don't think he married well. 
speaker2: that makes things a little easier for us then, doesn't it?

speaker1: beer. 
speaker1: guess you have to catch a train?

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: me, too. got twenty-four days of furlough and i'm goin' home. the soldier's beer arrives.
speaker1: where's home?
speaker2: utah, the bee-hive state. i'm from orem, right near salt lake ... say, you wouldn't happen to be a mormon, would you?

speaker1: no, i'm not. 
speaker2: me, neither. there's about twelve people in the state that aren't mormons and i'm one of them.
speaker1: that certainly makes you kind of special...
speaker2: yeah... i guess it does.
speaker2: you wouldn't be taking the train to salt lake, would you?
speaker1: no, i'm afraid not.
speaker2: i never have any luck.

speaker1: i really hope you have a nice trip. 
speaker2: thanks. i hope yours is okay, too. carol moves towards the exit.

speaker1: they look at each other... 
speaker2: where's the suitcase?

speaker1: a man helped me open it... 
speaker2: and switched keys.
speaker1: he must have.
speaker2: it isn't another boyfriend, is it?
speaker2: how long ago.

speaker1: fifteen minutes. 
speaker2: sure?
speaker2: he'd figure you for longer, enough time to try another hit. he's probably still in the station.
speaker2: there better be a guy with the
speaker1: you bastard...
speaker3: attention please.

speaker1: i don't think you have to worry much about harold. he won't do anything. 
speaker2: that right?
speaker1: you can trust him...
speaker2: how long have you been married?
speaker1: two years.
speaker2: can he trust you?
speaker1: that's what matters, isn't it?
speaker2: come over here a minute...
speaker1: look, i'm not going to be any trouble to you either, fact is, this may sound funny, but maybe you and i could be close friends... rudy gestures her closer...

speaker1: tickets? 
speaker2: end of the line. two.
speaker1: all right.

speaker1: talk a little, harold, loosen up... good for you. 
speaker2: something ought to loosen him up ... how comes we're going to el paso, rudy?
speaker1: i just want to find a suitcase.

speaker1: they may still be going to nogales. 
speaker2: what about laughlin in el paso?
speaker1: cover both, get someone down there... either rudy and mccoy's got half a million.
speaker2: they've got to switch cars.
speaker1: put out the word.
speaker3: what about jack?
speaker1: tonight... take him out in the country, throw him down a dry well, if you can find one.

speaker1: stick 'em up! 
speaker1: i'm gonna shoot you...

speaker1: i wouldn't worry doc. i can always get you out... i'll screw every prison official in texas if i have to. 
speaker2: texas is a big state.
speaker1: i can handle it.
speaker2: i'll bet you can.
speaker1: you'd do the same for me, wouldn't you, doc? if i was caught, wouldn't you?
speaker1: when we had trouble before it was different.
speaker2: you don't like the way things are, i don't like the way things
speaker1: what do you want to do?
speaker2: maybe we should split up... i'll cut the money with you.
speaker1: do you mean that?
speaker2: i mean it.
speaker1: no... i don't want to leave.

speaker1: we'll grab a room for tonight then you go out tomorrow and buy yourself some new clothes, pick some up for me... grab some food now, paper bag it, we eat in the room. 
speaker2: you've got all the answers. what about when they find the body on the train?
speaker1: when they find it, they find it.
speaker2: you've got it all figured.
speaker1: no... there's a couple of things i'm still working on.
speaker2: like what?

speaker1: there may be a hunting party. 
speaker2: why, there's nothing on the news?
speaker1: i didn't mean police.
speaker2: tell me about it.
speaker1: loredo is out. i've been thinking about rudy. if he was on his own, we're okay. if beynon bought him out...
speaker2: what?

speaker1: if beynon bought him out, and he talked then maybe beynon's boys will be waiting for us in el paso. 
speaker2: you're full of ifs.
speaker1: i think you liked it with him.
speaker2: maybe. at least i got to him. where do we go from here?
speaker1: el paso.

speaker1: bang! 
speaker2: get me a doctor.

speaker1: where did you get it? 
speaker2: it was a gift.

speaker1: thanks. you look great, just great... 
speaker2: that would be the first time.
speaker1: when are you going to learn?
speaker2: i did i killed a man.

speaker1: now you learn3 this time it could be the chair for both of us. carol starts to speak. 
speaker1: from now on you just shut up and do as you're told.
speaker2: if i hadn't killed beynon., you would have.

speaker1: how about him? 
speaker2: listen, i'm a friend of the court.
speaker1: you are here because you're under arrest.

speaker1: you laughlin? 
speaker1: congratulations. i need a room.
speaker2: no trouble. you came to the right place, one thing we got is a lot of rooms. what else can i do for you?

speaker1: c'mon workl i c'mon. 
speaker1: give me the news!!
speaker1: you can't trust anything these days.
speaker2: i'll tell you something, doc. one day you're going to have to trust somebody...
speaker1: i trust... want to see what i trust... in we trust... the word's on every bill!!!
speaker2: you keep it up and it won't matter how far we get away, because it's going to be all over between you and me. do you understand that? there won't be anything left.

speaker1: have a bone, baby. 
speaker2: oh, christ, you wrecked my blouse.

speaker1: transistor? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: 15 to 55 dollars -- take your pick.
speaker2: fifty -- taking a set, he exits.
speaker1: you have change.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: sure can. i'd like an invicta 12-gauge pump with the twenty-inch barrel.
speaker1: all right. shells?
speaker2: two boxes of double-ought buck.
speaker1: gonna knock down a wall?
speaker2: might try that.
speaker1: sign here.

speaker1: be one hundred and eighty-five thirty- two. 
speaker2: much obliged.
speaker3: only one car.
speaker2: let's do it.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: el paso.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: twenty eight hundred.
speaker1: are you hungry?
speaker2: not now.

speaker1: i've got to stop. 
speaker2: i'll tell you when.

speaker1: that's okay, honey. two cheeseburgers; two coffees and a milkshake. 
speaker2: how about fries?
speaker1: why not?

speaker1: okay? 
speaker2: i think so... i don't know.
speaker1: it's not deep.

speaker1: no scars? 
speaker2: no scars.
speaker2: don't scratch it, just rub, you'll get an infection. carol ignores him, she is in bad shape.
speaker2: do what i tell you, it's not a game.
speaker1: it's all a game, don't bother me.
speaker2: we better stick here till tonight.
speaker1: yeah. doc smiles, trying to get her to smile again.
speaker2: we're going to make it.
speaker1: sure...
speaker2: i want to say something.

speaker1: i don't want to hear it. 
speaker2: listen to me. it's hard enough.
speaker2: look, what you said yesterday... i guess that was right. it isn't worth anything if we don't make it together.
speaker1: i don't think we can any more... if we ever get out of here, maybe i should take off...
speaker2: we got this far.
speaker1: we've come a lot of miles. but we're not close to anything.
speaker2: i guess you're right.
speaker1: i always thought jails make people hard. not you. you're just not tough enough to forget about beynon. i chose you, not him.
speaker2: either we pick it up or else we leave it right here. we got to go one way or another.
speaker1: no more about beynon.
speaker2: whatever happens it's over.

speaker1: sounds good. 
speaker2: you want to try with me?
speaker1: things can't get much worse can they?
speaker2: i don't see how.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: you and me.
speaker1: can we make it?
speaker2: we get to mexico, we can have a life.
speaker1: that's all i want... it's the only thing i have ever wanted. as she pulls herself against him:
speaker2: i'm going to try and get it for you.

speaker1: okay, sweetpea, you get two choices. live or die. 
speaker1: do what i tell you, you not only get to live, but maybe you'll pick up some money.
speaker2: just tell me.
speaker1: first things first. main thing, you work for me, otherwise i get you. if i don't, six months from now one of my friends will.

speaker1: jimmy. how's it going? 
speaker2: good to see you, doc. it's all there, departure, arrival - everything except the $500.
speaker1: how's mama and the kids?
speaker2: growing -- all of them - every day. 318, you'll be the only ones on the floor.
speaker1: my lady'11 come in in about five minutes. have some food sent up in half an hour.
speaker2: just sandwiches...
speaker1: right.

speaker1: when she gets here, have that kid of yours help her with the suitcase. 
speaker2: he took the day off.
speaker1: then you do it.
speaker2: can't leave the desk.

speaker1: we've got some food coming, should be here any minute. 
speaker2: great. i'm going to sleep twelve hours.
speaker1: ten. laughlin's going to take us across at four a.m.
speaker2: oh, jesus... how?

speaker1: jeep. there's a dry river bed fifteen miles east. he takes us to the mexican side, drops us off at the airfield by breakfast... we've got a 9 o'clock flight. 
speaker2: i'll be ready.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: get in the shower. you'll feel okay.
speaker1: whatever you say.

speaker1: get upi carol's eyes snap open. 
speaker1: we're moving now!
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: laughlin. he's always got his family around... that wife and kid of his have to stand by his side to make sure he stays off the juice and horses.
speaker2: so what?
speaker1: if they are not here, he must have sent them away.

speaker1: you're crazy. 
speaker2: get your clothes on, move your
speaker1: sorry. look, i'm clean. i want to get some rest.

speaker1: it's your food, i brought up your sandwiches... 
speaker2: carol standing near the door., looks at doc. he mouths and half-whispers:
speaker3: stall.
speaker4: just leave it outside the door... i'm not dressed right now. after a moment:
speaker1: i can't do that, ma'am. you have to pay now so i can pay back the boy that went out and got the food...
speaker4: all right. you'll have to hold on a minute, my husband's in the shower...

speaker1: open it up, it's me. 
speaker1: come on, come on.
speaker2: who was it?
speaker1: just get your clothes on...

speaker1: now you want to tell me? 
speaker2: mccoy's in 318., the other guy's in 420.
speaker1: sure about that?

speaker1: doc ! 
speaker2: out here.

speaker1: just have her set it down. 
speaker2: you want it? come and take it.

speaker1: drive. 
speaker2: suit yourself.
speaker2: how was that?
speaker1: just fine.
speaker2: where we go in1?
speaker1: mexico. i'd like to find a quiet place to cross.
speaker2: why not?

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: where do we go from here?
speaker1: i don't know, airport i guess.

speaker1: they will have our description before we can get a plane. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: i guess you ain't gonna shoot me, are you?
speaker2: i kinda doubt it.
speaker3: that's good... i'll cooperate, don't worry about that... yes sir, i've had some trouble with the law myself.
speaker3: three years ago i dynamited some fish at the reservoir.
speaker1: oh my
speaker3: that little job cost me a hundred dollars... didn't even get to keep the fish.
speaker2: let's just get to the border.
speaker3: sure thing, mister, it's coming right up. 'bout an hour. quiet crossing that is.

speaker1: buenas tardes... your destination. 
speaker2: chihuahua... gonna do some sightseeing.

speaker1: which way? 
speaker2: juarez - chihuahua city road.
speaker1: don't you want to go to the airport?
speaker2: not now.
speaker3: how long before this car's hot?
speaker2: pull over.
speaker2: listen... how much money did you make this year?
speaker1: what's it to you?
speaker2: come on. how much?
speaker1: 'bout five thousand.

speaker1: how about if i buy your car for ten grand? 
speaker2: you serious?
speaker1: sure am.
speaker2: and i keep my mouth shut?
speaker1: that's what i want.
speaker2: i don't report the car and i don't know either of you?
speaker1: you got it.
speaker2: how about twenty thousand?
speaker2: done, by
speaker1: pay the man.

speaker1: you're going to have to walk back to the border. 
speaker2: don't worry about me, i'll grab a cab... i can afford it, you know.

speaker1: hope you get to where you're going. 
speaker2: thanks. hope you do too.
speaker1: by the way, you're getting a of a car there, mister.
speaker3: well, i paid a of a price. now for sake keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: wish you hadn't said that. when slim canfield's lips are sealed, they're sealed.
speaker3: go with
speaker1: one thing though... how do i explain this to my wife?
speaker2: tell her you robbed a bank...

speaker1: are we going to make it? 
speaker2: hell, i don't know... but we sure gave it a run.

speaker1: whatever happens... we're going all the way. 
speaker2: yeah, why not? we're the good guys.
speaker1: i guess we are.
speaker2: why don't you try the news?
speaker1: no more news, from now on we're just going to listen to music.

speaker1: what now? 
speaker2: we walk.

