speaker1: - and today it is right that we should ask ourselves the one most important question: what is the purpose of these years, the purpose for all this demanding work, the purpose for the sacrifices made those who love us? were there not a purpose, then all of these past years of struggle, of fierce competition and of uncom- promising ambition would be mean- ingless. but, of course, there is a purpose and i must tell it to you. i ask you to remember this purpose always and i pledge that i shall endeavor to carry it with me forever. 
speaker2: staring at him impassively.

speaker1: the purpose, my fellow graduates - the purpose is - he stops, trying to think of the word. 
speaker2: he begins to sweat.
speaker3: watching.
speaker4: staring.

speaker1: - the reason is - the purpose is - 
speaker2: huge and empty. sound of aircraft.
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our descent into los angeles - sound of a sonic boom.

speaker1: under titles: 
speaker2: ladies and gentlemen please fasten your seat belts in preparation for the landing and observe the no smoking sign. after we land, you will notice an increase in the sound level as the thrust of the engines is reversed to help reduce forward speed.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker1: the guests are all downstairs, ben. they're all waiting to see you.
speaker2: look, dad - could you explain to them that i have to be alone for a while?
speaker1: these are all our good friends, ben. most of them have known you since - well - practically since you were born.
speaker1: what is it, ben?
speaker2: i'm just -
speaker3: - worried?
speaker2: well -
speaker3: about what? ben i guess - about my future.
speaker3: what about it?
speaker2: i don't know. i want it to be -
speaker3: to be what?
speaker2: different.
speaker4: is anything wrong?
speaker3: no! no - we're just on our way downstairs!
speaker4: the carlsons' are here.
speaker3: they are? come on.
speaker4: they came all the way from tarzana.
speaker3: it's a wonderful thing to have so many devoted friends.

speaker1: hey - there's our award winning scholar. 
speaker2: we're all very proud of you, ben.
speaker3: thank you, mrs. carlson.
speaker1: is that the new car out there?
speaker4: that's ben's graduation present.
speaker1: won't have much trouble picking them up in that, will you?
speaker3: sir?
speaker1: the girls. the chicks. the - the teeny boppers.
speaker2: i think ben has gotten beyond the teeny bopper stage - haven't you, ben?
speaker3: yes, ma'am.
speaker3: excuse me - i think i'd just like to check something on the car for a minute -
speaker5: here's the track star himself.
speaker3: just fine, mr. loomis.
speaker5: i want to get a drink and then i want to hear all about that thing you won. that hopperman award.
speaker3: helpingham.
speaker5: helpingham! right! now you wait right here.
speaker6: ben - we're all so proud of you.
speaker7: proud, proud, proud, proud, proud.
speaker8: what are you going to do now?
speaker3: i was going to go upstairs for a minute -
speaker8: no - i meant with your future.
speaker7: with your life.
speaker3: well - that's a little hard to say - mr. mcquire appears behind ben.
speaker9: ben! ben excuse me. mr. mcquire
speaker9: ben.
speaker3: mr. mcquire.

speaker1: ben - i just want to say one word to you - just one word - 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: are you listening?
speaker2: yes i am.
speaker1: plastics.
speaker2: exactly how do you mean?
speaker1: there is a great future in plastics. think about it. will you think about it?
speaker2: yes, i will.
speaker1: okay. enough said. that's a deal.
speaker3: here he is now. here's ben.
speaker2: excuse me just a minute -

speaker1: oh. i guess this isn't the bathroom, is it? 
speaker2: it's down the hall.
speaker1: how are you, benjamin?
speaker2: fine, thank you. the bathroom is down at the end of the hall.
speaker2: look, mrs. robinson, i don't mean to be rude but -
speaker1: is there an ashtray in here?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh - i forgot. the track star doesn't smoke.
speaker1: is it a girl?
speaker2: is what a girl?
speaker1: whatever it is you're upset about.
speaker2: oh - no. i'm just sort of disturbed about things.
speaker1: in general.
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: benjamin, i want to ask you something.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: will you take me home?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: my husband took the car. will you drive me home?
speaker2: here - you take it.
speaker2: do you know how to work a foreign shift?
speaker2: you don't?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: dad - mrs. robinson needs a ride home. i'll be right back. 
speaker2: as she passes the
speaker3: wonderful party.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: will you come in, please?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i want you to come in till i get the lights on.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: because i don't feel safe until i get the lights on.

speaker1: would you mind walking ahead of me to the sun porch. i feel funny about coming into a dark house. 
speaker2: but it's light in there now.
speaker1: please.
speaker1: what do you drink? bourbon?
speaker2: look - i drove you home. i was glad to do it. but i have some things on my mind. can you understand that?
speaker2: all right then.
speaker1: what do you drink?
speaker1: benjamin - i'm sorry to be this way, but i don't want to be alone in this house.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: please wait till my husband gets home.
speaker2: when is he coming back?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker1: drink?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: are you always this much afraid of being alone?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well, why can't you just lock the doors and go to bed?
speaker1: i'm very nuerotic.
speaker1: may i ask you a question?
speaker1: what do you think of me?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: you've known me nearly all of your life. you must have formed some opinion.
speaker2: well - i've always thought that you were a very - nice - person.
speaker1: did you know i was an alcoholic?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: did you know that?
speaker2: look - i think i should be going -
speaker1: sit down, benjamin.
speaker2: mrs. robinson - if you don't mind my saying so - this conversation is getting a little strange. now i'm sure that mr. robinson will be here any minute and -
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: my husband will be back quite late.
speaker1: he should be gone for several hours.
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: pardon?
speaker2: oh no, mrs. robinson, oh no.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: mrs. robinson, you didn't - i mean you didn't expect -
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i mean - you didn't really think that i would do something like that.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: well i don't know.
speaker2: for sake, mrs. robinson, here we are, you've got me into your house. you give me a drink. you put on music, now you start opening up your personal life to me and tell me your husband won't be home for hours.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: mrs. robinson - you are trying to seduce me.
speaker2: aren't you?
speaker1: why no. i hadn't thought of it. i feel rather flattered that you -
speaker2: mrs. robinson, will you forgive me for what i just said?
speaker1: it's all right.
speaker2: it's not all right, it's the worst thing i've ever said to anyone.
speaker1: sit down.
speaker2: please forgive me. because i like you. i don't think of you that way. but i'm mixed up.
speaker1: all right. now finish your drink.
speaker2: mrs. robinson, it makes me sick that i said that to you.
speaker1: we'll forget it right now.
speaker2: what is wrong with me?
speaker1: have you ever seen elaine's portrait?
speaker2: her portrait?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: we had it done last christmas.
speaker2: very much.

speaker1: elaine certainly is an attractive girl, isn't she? 
speaker1: i don't remember her as having brown eyes.
speaker2: benjamin?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: will you unzip my dress?
speaker2: i think i'll go to bed.
speaker1: oh. well, goodnight.
speaker2: won't you unzip my dress?
speaker1: i'd rather not, mrs. robinson.
speaker2: if you still think i'm trying to seduce you -
speaker1: no, i don't. but i just feel a little funny.
speaker2: benjamin - you've known me all your life.
speaker1: i know that. but i'm -
speaker2: come on.
speaker2: it's hard for me to reach.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: what are you so scared of?
speaker1: i'm not scared, mrs. robinson.
speaker2: then why do you keep running away?
speaker1: because you're going to bed. i don't think i should be up here.
speaker2: haven't you ever seen anybody in a slip before?
speaker1: yes, i have - he looks up at the portrait of elaine.
speaker1: but i just - look - what if mr.
speaker2: what if he did?
speaker1: well, it would look pretty funny, wouldn't it?
speaker2: don't you think he trusts us together?
speaker1: of course he does. but he might get the wrong idea.
speaker2: i don't see why. i'm twice as old as you are. how could anyone think -
speaker1: but they would! don't you see?
speaker2: benjamin - i'm not trying to seduce you. i wish you'd -
speaker1: i know that. but please, mrs. robinson. this is difficult for me.
speaker2: why is it?
speaker1: because i am confused about things. i can't tell what i'm imagining. i can't tell what's real. i can't -
speaker2: would you like me to seduce you?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: is that what you're trying to tell me?
speaker1: i'm going home now. i apologize for what i said. i hope you can forget it. but i'm going home right now.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: will you bring up my purse before you go?
speaker1: i have to go now. i'm sorry.
speaker3: i really don't want to put this on again. won't you bring it up?
speaker1: where is it?
speaker3: on that chair in the hall.
speaker1: mrs. robinson?
speaker2: i'm in the bathroom.
speaker1: well here's the purse.
speaker2: could you bring it up?
speaker1: well i'll hand it to you.
speaker1: come to the railing and i'll hand it up.
speaker2: benjamin - i am getting pretty tired of all this suspicion. now if you won't do me a simple favor i don't know what.
speaker1: i'm putting it on the top step.
speaker2: for sake, benjamin, will you stop acting that way and bring me the purse?
speaker1: i'm putting it here by the door.
speaker2: will you bring it in to me?
speaker1: i'd rather not.
speaker2: all right. put it in the room where we were.
speaker1: right.

speaker1: oh 
speaker1: let me out.
speaker2: don't be nervous.
speaker1: get away from that door.
speaker2: i want to say something first.
speaker1: christ!
speaker2: benjamin - i want you to know i'm available to you. if you won't sleep with me this time -
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: if you won't sleep with me this time, benjamin, i want you to know you can call me up any time you want and we'll make some kind of arrangement.
speaker1: let me out!
speaker2: do you understand what i said?
speaker1: yes. yes. let me out!
speaker2: because i find you very attractive and any time -

speaker1: is that ben's car in front? 
speaker2: yes, sir!
speaker2: i drove - i drove mrs. robinson home. she wanted me to drive her home so i - i drove her home.
speaker3: swell. i appreciate it.
speaker2: she's upstairs. she wanted me to wait down here till you got home.
speaker3: standing guard over the old castle, are you?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: here. it looks like you need a refill.
speaker2: oh no.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: i've got to go.
speaker3: is anything wrong? you look a little shaken up.
speaker2: no. no - i'm just - i'm just a little worried about my future. i'm a little upset about my future.
speaker3: come on. let's have a nightcap together.
speaker2: thank you very much, sir.
speaker3: ben - how old are you now?
speaker2: twenty. i'll be twenty-one next week.
speaker3: that's a of a good age to be.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: i wish i was that age again.
speaker2: sir?
speaker3: you'll never be young again.
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: ben, can i say something to you?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: how long have we known each other now?
speaker3: how long have you and i known each other? how long have your dad and i been partners?
speaker2: quite a while.
speaker3: i've watched you grow up, ben.
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: in many ways i feel as though you were my own son.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: so i hope you won't mind my giving you a friendly piece of advice.
speaker2: i'd like to hear it.
speaker3: ben - i think - i think you ought to be taking it a little easier right now than you seem to.
speaker3: sow a few wild oats. take things as they come. have a good time with the girls and so forth.
speaker4: don't get up.
speaker3: i was just telling ben here he ought to sow a few wild oats. have a good time while he can. you think that's sound advice?
speaker4: yes, i do.
speaker2: i've got to go.
speaker3: you have yourself a few flings this summer. i bet you're quite a ladies' man.
speaker2: oh no.
speaker3: what? you look like the kind of guy that has to fight them off. doesn't he look to you like the kind of guy who has to fight them off?
speaker4: yes, he does.

speaker1: oh say - elaine gets down from berkeley on saturday. 
speaker2: oh yes.
speaker1: ben - i want you to give her a call.
speaker2: i will.
speaker1: great.

speaker1: benjamin? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: thank you for taking me home.
speaker1: i'll see you soon, i hope.
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen - your attention, please - for this after- noon's feature attraction.

speaker1: hey, over there -- i mean you! your attention please! 
speaker1: are you ready in there, feature attraction?
speaker2: could i speak to you for a second, dad?
speaker1: - what was i saying?
speaker3: feature attraction.
speaker1: right. hey - i'm glad to see you're paying attention. a feature attraction that will be one of the most astounding events ever to take place in this particular backyard.
speaker1: now i'm going to ask for a big round of applause to bring this boy out here - wait a minute - let me amend that - to bring this young man out here - because today he is twenty-one-years- old -
speaker4: let's get on with the show!
speaker1: just hang on a minute because i have a few words to say -
speaker4: you always do.
speaker2: dad - could we just talk about this for a second?
speaker1: twenty-one-years-old, ladies and gentlemen; four of those years spent accomplishing some rather extraordinary things at one of our nation's leading seats of learning -
speaker4: bring him out!
speaker5: on with the show! on with the show!
speaker1: i can't hold them much longer, ben. you better get out here.
speaker2: i'd like to discuss this.
speaker1: this boy - i'm sorry - this young man - is soon to continue his education as a frank halping- ham award scholar - but before he does - mr. braddock darts back to the window.
speaker1: - before he does - you're disappointing them, ben.
speaker2: dad - can you listen -
speaker1: i'll give you ten seconds. he is going to give us a practical demonstration of what i feel safe in saying is a pretty exciting birthday present - and it better work or i'm out over two hundred bucks - so let's hear it for -
speaker1: - benjamin braddock!

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: mrs. robinson - i don't quite know how to put this -
speaker1: benjamin?
speaker2: look - i was thinking about that time after the party -
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: - and i was wondering if i could buy you a drink or something -
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: uh - the taft hotel.
speaker1: did you get a room?
speaker2: no. now i know it's pretty late and if you'd rather -
speaker1: give me an hour.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'll be there in an hour.
speaker3: can i help you, sir!
speaker2: what? oh - no - i'm just -
speaker3: are you here for an affair, sir?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: the singleman party, sir?
speaker2: oh - yes. the singleman party.
speaker3: it's in the main ballroom.
speaker2: ahh - thank you.
speaker4: as ben steps inside.
speaker5: hello.
speaker2: hello.
speaker6: you must be one of the porters.
speaker2: no - actually i'm not -
speaker6: i'd like you to know my sister, miss dewitte -
speaker2: how do you do, miss dewitte?
speaker6: - and my husband, mr. singleman -
speaker2: oh - sorry -
speaker7: fine, thank you.
speaker6: that's jeffrey, of course.
speaker2: of course.
speaker8: i didn't get your name, sir.
speaker2: benjamin braddock, sir.
speaker6: braddock - braddock?
speaker2: yes, but i'm afraid -
speaker6: i'll find your table in a moment. braddock. not braniff? we have a braniff.
speaker2: no - actually i'm just looking for a friend.
speaker6: i'm afraid i don't understand.
speaker2: i'm not with your party - i'm sorry.
speaker6: hey - i don't get it. ben is backing out. miss dewitte i've enjoyed meeting you, mr.
speaker6: angela - please!

speaker1: hello, benjamin. 
speaker2: oh. hello. hello.
speaker1: may i sit down?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: how are you?
speaker2: very well. thank you.
speaker1: may i have a drink?
speaker2: a drink? of course.
speaker2: he didn't see me.
speaker1: waiter!
speaker1: i will have a martini. waiter no. 1 yes, madam.
speaker1: you don't have to be so nervous, you know.
speaker2: nervous. well, i am a bit nervous. i mean it's - it's pretty hard to be suave when you're - he shakes his head.
speaker1: did you get us a room?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: have you gotten us a room yet?
speaker2: i haven't. no.
speaker1: do you want to?
speaker2: well - i don't. i mean i could.
speaker1: do you want me to get it?
speaker2: you? oh no. no. i'll get it.
speaker1: do you want to get it now?
speaker2: now?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well - i don't know.
speaker1: why don't you get it.
speaker2: why don't i get it? well - i will then. if you'll excuse me.
speaker3: ben walks to the front desk and stands there.
speaker4: yes sir?
speaker2: a room. i'd like a room, please.
speaker4: a single room or a double room?
speaker2: a single. just for myself, please.
speaker4: will you sign the register, please?
speaker4: is anything wrong, sir?
speaker2: what? no. nothing.
speaker4: do you have any luggage, mister -- gladstone?
speaker2: luggage? yes. yes. i do.
speaker4: where is it?
speaker2: what?
speaker4: where is your luggage?
speaker2: well it's in the car. it's out in the car.
speaker4: very good, sir. i'll have a porter bring it in.
speaker2: oh no.
speaker4: sir?
speaker2: i mean i'd - i'd rather not go to the trouble of bringing it all in. i just have a toothbrush. i can get it my- self. if that's all right.
speaker4: of course.
speaker4: i'll have a porter show you the room.
speaker2: oh. well actually, i'd just as soon find it myself. i just have the toothbrush to carry up and i think i can manage it myself.
speaker4: whatever you say, sir.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: hello.
speaker2: mrs. robinson?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: it's benjamin.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: benjamin braddock.
speaker1: benjamin -- where are you?
speaker2: can you look through the glass.

speaker1: can you see me now? 
speaker2: yes, i can.

speaker1: i got a single room. 
speaker2: that's fine.
speaker1: but there's one thing. the desk clerk seemed to be a little bit suspicious. i mean - i don't know what their policy is - but -
speaker2: well - do you want to go up first?
speaker1: yes - i think that would be good.
speaker2: i'll be up in five minutes.
speaker1: well - goodbye then -
speaker2: benjamin.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: isn't there something you want to tell me?
speaker1: to tell you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well - i want you to know how much i appreciate this - really -
speaker2: the number.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the room number, benjamin. i think you ought to tell me that.
speaker1: oh? you're absolutely right. absolutely. it's 512.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you're welcome. well - i'll see you later, mrs. robinson.

speaker1: i've got it. 
speaker1: i say i've got it.
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: the toothbrush. i got it all right.
speaker2: very good, sir.
speaker1: yes. well - goodnight.
speaker2: goodnight, sir.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: well.
speaker1: benjamin.
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i'll get undressed now. is that all right?
speaker2: sure. shall i - i mean shall i just stand here? i mean - i don't know what you want me to do.
speaker1: why don't you watch?
speaker2: oh - sure. thank you.
speaker1: will you bring me a hanger?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: a hanger.
speaker2: oh - yes. wood?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: wood or wire? they have both.
speaker1: either one will be fine.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: will you help me with this, please?
speaker2: certainly.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker1: would this be easier for you in the dark?
speaker2: mrs. robinson - i can't do this.
speaker1: you what?
speaker2: this is all terribly wrong.
speaker1: benjamin - do you find me undesirable?
speaker2: oh no, mrs. robinson. i think - i think you're the most attractive of all my parents' friends. i just don't think we could possibly --
speaker1: are you afraid of me?
speaker2: no - but look - maybe we could do something else together, mrs. robinson - would you like to go to a movie.
speaker1: benjamin, is this your first time?
speaker2: is this - what?
speaker1: it is, isn't it? it is your first time.
speaker2: that's a laugh, mrs. robinson.
speaker1: you can admit that, can't you?
speaker2: are you kidding?
speaker1: it's nothing to be ashamed of -
speaker2: wait a minute!
speaker1: on your first time -
speaker2: who said it was my first time.
speaker1: that you're afraid -
speaker2: wait a minute.
speaker1: - of bring - inadequate - i mean just because you happen to be inadequate in one way -

speaker1: closeup of television set and cartoon. 
speaker2: ben watching.
speaker3: closeup test pattern.

speaker1: - here - in the pool. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: well - it's very comfortable - just to drift here.
speaker2: have you thought about graduate school?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: would you mind telling me then - what were those four years of college for? what was the point of all that hard work?
speaker1: you got me.
speaker2: now listen, ben. i think it's a very good thing that a young man - after he's done some very good work - should have a chance to relax and enjoy himself, and lie around, and drink beer and so on. but after a few weeks i believe that person would want to take some stock in him- self and his situation and start to think about getting off his ass.
speaker3: the robinson's are here.
speaker4: hi, ben. what are you doing with yourself these days?
speaker1: oh - not too much. taking it easy.
speaker4: that's what i'd do if i could. nothing wrong with that. hey ben, elaine's coming down from berkeley soon. i want you to call her up this time.
speaker1: i will.
speaker4: because i just think you two would hit it off real well together.
speaker3: say hello to mrs. robinson, benjamin.

speaker1: hello, mrs. robinson. 
speaker2: hello, benjamin.

speaker1: can i talk to you a minute? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: benjamin? i'm going to ask you something but you don't have to tell me if you don't want.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: well i'm going to ask you what you do when you go off at night.
speaker2: when i go off?
speaker1: you don't have to tell me if you don't want.
speaker2: no, i do. i want to tell you.
speaker2: i drive around.
speaker1: what else?
speaker2: nothing else.
speaker1: well you don't drive around from midnight until noon the next day, benjamin.
speaker2: oh, no.
speaker1: then what do you do? do you meet someone?
speaker2: meet someone?
speaker2: why did you say that?
speaker1: well this is your business, benjamin. if you -
speaker2: no wait. wait.
speaker2: i don't meet anyone, mother, but why did you say that?
speaker1: benjamin, i'm not going to pry into your affairs, but i'd rather you didn't say anything at all than be dishonest.
speaker2: well, wait.
speaker2: you think i'm being dishonest?
speaker2: well why do you - why do you think that?
speaker1: because i know you don't drive around for twelve hours.
speaker2: oh. well, i don't. shall i tell you what i do?
speaker1: not if you don't want to.
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: but i don't want you to make up something.
speaker2: i'm not. but i'm - i'm not very proud of what i do. i usually get kind of drunk. i usually drive over to los angeles and go to some bars and get kind of drunk. then i take a hotel room. so i won't have to drive home on the freeway. i mean it kind of scares me to drive home after -
speaker1: goodnight, benjamin.
speaker2: you believe me, don't you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you don't?
speaker2: but i want you to. please. please will you believe me.

speaker1: goodnight. 
speaker2: wait a minute.

speaker1: wait a minute. sit down a minute. 
speaker1: will you please sit down a minute.
speaker1: will you leave that shoe on for a minute. please.
speaker1: now - do you think we could say a few words to each other first this time?
speaker2: if you want.
speaker1: good. i mean are we dead or something?
speaker2: well i just don't think we have much to say to each other.
speaker1: all we ever do is come up here and throw off the clothes and leap into bed together.
speaker2: are you tired of it?
speaker1: i'm not. no. but do you think we could liven it up with a few words now and then?
speaker2: well what do you want to talk about?
speaker1: anything. anything at all.
speaker2: do you want to tell me about some of your college experiences?
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: well?
speaker1: mrs. robinson. if that's the best we can do let's just get the god- clothes off and -- she reaches for her shoe.
speaker1: leave it on! now we are going to do this thing. we are going to have a conversation. think of another topic.
speaker2: how about art.
speaker1: art. that's a good subject.
speaker2: you start it off. i don't know anything about it.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: don't you?
speaker1: yes i do. i know quite a bit about it.
speaker2: go ahead then.
speaker1: art. well what do you want to know about it.
speaker1: are you interested more in modern art or more in classical art.
speaker2: neither.
speaker1: you're not interested in art?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then why do you want to talk about it?
speaker2: i don't.
speaker2: can i take off my clothes now?
speaker1: no. think of another topic.
speaker2: do you really want me to?
speaker1: yes i do.
speaker2: i got up.
speaker2: do you want to hear it or not?
speaker1: yes. but you might try and spice it up with a little originality.
speaker2: i got up. i ate breakfast and went shopping. during the after- noon i read a novel.
speaker1: what one.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what novel did you read.
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker2: then i fixed supper for my husband and waited until -
speaker1: there!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: your husband! mrs. robinson! there's something we could have a conversation about.
speaker2: him?
speaker1: i mean everything. i don't know anything about how you - how you work this. i don't know how you get out of the house at night. i don't know the risk involved.
speaker2: there isn't any.
speaker1: there's no risk?
speaker1: how do you get out of the house?
speaker2: i walk out.
speaker1: you walk right out the door.
speaker1: what do you say to him?
speaker2: he's asleep.
speaker1: always?
speaker2: benjamin, this isn't a very interesting topic.
speaker1: please. now tell me. how do you know he won't wake up sometime and follow you.
speaker2: because he takes sleeping pills. he takes three sleeping pills every night at ten o'clock.
speaker1: but what about the noise from the car. what if -
speaker2: the driveway's on my side of the house.
speaker1: we're talking.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we're talking, mrs. robinson.
speaker2: calm down, benjamin.
speaker1: now let's keep going here.
speaker2: can i undress and talk at the same time?
speaker1: right.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: now. you say the driveway's on your side of the house. so i guess you don't sleep in the same room.
speaker2: we don't.
speaker1: so you don't - i mean i don't like to seem like i'm prying but i guess you don't sleep together or anything.
speaker2: no we don't.
speaker1: well how long has this been going on.
speaker2: about five years.
speaker1: oh no. are you kidding me?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you have not slept with your husband for five years?
speaker2: now and then. he geats drunk a few times a year.
speaker1: how many times a year.
speaker2: on new year's eve. sometimes on his birthday.
speaker1: man, is this interesting.
speaker2: is it?
speaker1: so you don't love him. you wouldn't say you -
speaker2: we've talked enough, benjamin.
speaker1: wait a minute. so you wouldn't say you loved him.
speaker2: not exactly.
speaker1: but you don't hate him.
speaker2: no, benjamin. i don't hate him.
speaker1: well how do you feel about him, then?
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: well that's kind of a bad situation then, isn't it?
speaker2: is it?
speaker1: i mean it doesn't sound like it could be much worse. if you hated him at least you'd hate him.
speaker1: well you loved him once, i assume. when you first knew him.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i never did, benjamin. now let's -
speaker1: well, wait a minute. you married him.
speaker1: why did you do that?
speaker2: see if you can guess.
speaker1: well i can't.
speaker2: think real hard, benjamin.
speaker1: i can't see why you did, unless ...you didn't have to marry him or anything, did you?
speaker2: don't tell elaine.
speaker1: oh no. you had to marry him because you got pregnant?
speaker2: are you shocked?
speaker1: well i never thought of you and mr. robinson as the kind of people who...
speaker2: all right. now let's get to bed.
speaker1: wait a minute. wait a minute.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i mean do you feel like telling me what were the circumstances?
speaker2: not particularly.
speaker1: was he a law student at the time?
speaker1: and you were a student also.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: at college.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what was your major?
speaker2: why are you asking me all this?
speaker1: because i'm interested, mrs. robinson. now what was your major subject at college?
speaker2: art.
speaker1: art?
speaker1: but i thought you - i guess you kind of lost interest in it over the years then.
speaker2: kind of.
speaker1: well how did it happen?
speaker2: how do you think.
speaker1: i mean did he take you up to his room with him? did you go to a hotel?
speaker2: benjamin, what does it possibly matter?
speaker1: i'm curious.
speaker2: we'd go to his car.
speaker1: oh no. in the car you did it?
speaker2: i don't think we were the first.
speaker1: what kind of car was it?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: do you remember the make of the car?
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: really. i want to know.
speaker2: it was a ford, benjamin.
speaker1: a ford! a ford! goddamnit, a ford! that's great!
speaker2: that's enough.
speaker1: so old elaine robinson got started in a ford.
speaker2: don't talk about elaine.
speaker1: don't talk about elaine?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because i don't want you to.
speaker1: well why don't you?
speaker1: i wish you'd tell me.
speaker2: there's nothing to tell.
speaker1: well why is she a big taboo subject all of a sudden?
speaker1: well - i guess i'll have to ask her out on a date and find out what's --
speaker2: benjamin, don't you ever take that girl out.
speaker2: do you understand that?
speaker1: well look. i have no intention of taking her out.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: i was just kidding around.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: but why shouldn't i?
speaker2: i have my reasons.
speaker1: then let's hear them.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: let's hear your reasons, mrs. robinson. because i think i know what they are.
speaker1: i'm not good enough for her to associate with, am i? i'm not good enough to even talk about her, am i?
speaker2: let's drop it.
speaker1: we're not dropping it. now that's the reason, isn't it? i'm a dirty degenerate, aren't i? i'm not fit to -
speaker2: benjamin?
speaker1: i'm good enough for you but i'm too slimy to associate with your daughter. that's it, isn't it? isn't it?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you go to hell. you go straight to hell, mrs. robinson. do you think i'm proud of myself? do you think i'm proud of this?
speaker2: i wouldn't know.
speaker1: well, i'm not.
speaker2: you're not.
speaker1: no sir. i am not proud that i spend my time with a broken- down alcoholic!
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: and if you think i come here for any reason besides pure boredom, then you're all wrong.
speaker1: because - mrs. robinson this is the sickest, most perverted thing that ever happened to me. and you do what you want but i'm getting the out.
speaker2: are you?
speaker1: you're right i am.
speaker2: that's how you feel about me.
speaker2: that i'm a sick and disgusting person.
speaker1: now don't start this.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: don't start acting hurt.
speaker2: don't you expect me to be a little hurt?
speaker1: mrs. robinson, you stand there and tell me i'm not good enough for your daughter.
speaker2: did i say that?
speaker1: of course you did.
speaker2: benjamin, i want to apologize to you if that's the impression you got.
speaker1: well two minutes ago you told me i wasn't good enough for your daughter. now you say you're sorry i got that impression.
speaker2: i didn't mean it. i don't think you'd be right for each other. but i would never say you weren't as good a person as she is.
speaker1: you wouldn't.
speaker2: of course i wouldn't.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: well it's pretty obvious you don't want me around any more.
speaker1: well look - i was kind of upset there. i'm sorry i said those things.
speaker2: if that's how you feel -
speaker1: but it's not.
speaker2: that's all right. i think i can understand why i'm disgusting to you.
speaker1: oh no. look - i like you. i wouldn't keep coming here if i didn't like you.
speaker2: but if it's sickening for you -
speaker1: it's not! i enjoy it! i look forward to it. it's the one thing i have to look forward to.
speaker2: you don't have to say that.
speaker1: well i wouldn't. i would never say it if it wasn't true.
speaker2: may i stay then?
speaker1: yes. please. i want you to.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: well don't thank me, because i want you to.
speaker2: but you won't ever take out elaine, will you? i want you to promise me that.
speaker1: look. why the did you bring this up. it never occured to me to take her out.
speaker2: then give me your word you won't.
speaker1: this is absurd.
speaker2: promise me, benjamin.
speaker1: all right, for christ's sake. i promise i will never take out elaine robinson.
speaker2: thank you. benjamin -
speaker1: let's not talk about it. let's not talk at all.

speaker1: it's pretty embarrassing. i really don't know what to tell mr. robinson. it's ackward and strained for me every time he suggests that you call up elaine. 
speaker2: next time he suggests it, i'll tell him i have no intention of ever calling her up in my life.
speaker3: i guess she's not good enough for you, is that it?
speaker2: look - elaine robinson and i do not get along.
speaker3: how do you know? you haven't seen her since high school. i guess your evenings, whatever you do with them, are just too valuable.
speaker2: that has nothing to do with it -
speaker3: i guess i'll just tell mr. robinson that you're just too busy every evening - doing knows what -
speaker1: don't go on like this. now if benjamin absolutely refuses to take her out -
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: - then i'll simply invite all the robinsons' over for dinner on thursday.
speaker4: he slides off the raft and goes underwater.
speaker5: his hair streaming up, his eyes open.

speaker1: well, braddock - it's about time you got around to this. come on in. i'm afraid the young lady isn't quite ready yet - 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: what would you say to a short one?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i'll see if she's ready.
speaker3: note following dialogue played simultaneously
speaker4: now listen -- this was not
speaker5: benjamin -- i thought i made elaine's voice
speaker4: i'll do it - i'll do it. look, we'll go out to dinner and have a drink and i'll elaine's voice bring her back. because it is ben here? was either that or a dinner party for the two families. mr. robinson's voice
speaker5: but i am. i'm extremely upset about it, benjamin.
speaker6: hello.
speaker2: hello.

speaker1: you're living at home now. is that right? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: do you know what you're going to do?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: are you going to graduate school?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do you always drive like this?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: do you want some dinner? 
speaker2: i'd love some.
speaker1: bring a menu.
speaker3: dinner for two, sir?
speaker1: no. just for her.
speaker2: aren't you eating?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: if it's all right with you, i'm not hungry.
speaker2: i've changed my mind. thank you.

speaker1: sit down. 
speaker1: why don't you watch the show?
speaker2: benjamin - do you dislike me for some reason?
speaker1: no - why should i?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: you're missing a great effect here. 
speaker1: how do you like that?
speaker1: could you do it?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: elaine - i'm sorry. 
speaker2: will you take me home now?
speaker1: i'm sorry i took you in there.
speaker2: i think i'd better go home now please.
speaker1: but, elaine -
speaker2: where is the car?
speaker1: i just want to tell you something.
speaker2: i want to go home.
speaker1: but could i just tell you this one thing?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this whole idea - this date and everything. it was my parents' idea. they forced me into it.
speaker2: oh - that's very nice of you to tell me.
speaker1: no. what i mean is - that's why i've been acting this way. i'm not like this. i hate myself like this.
speaker1: listen - could you stop crying, please?
speaker2: no, i couldn't.
speaker1: but could you try?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: elaine - he starts to pull her head back.
speaker2: not here. not here.

speaker1: i've had this feeling - ever since i've graduated - this - kind of compulsion that i have to be rude all the time. do you know what i mean? 
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker1: it's like i've been playing some kind of - game - but the rules don't make any sense to me - she is watching him carefully.
speaker1: - they're being made up by all the wrong people - no - i mean no one makes them up, they seem to have made themselves up.
speaker1: say - i wonder if i could request you to turn that down a little?

speaker1: well - maybe i'd better go in. 
speaker1: would you like to come in? i could make some coffee.
speaker2: no, i mean - i wouldn't want to wake anyone up.
speaker1: we won't. let's go inside.
speaker2: wait a minute.
speaker1: is anything wrong?
speaker2: no - i was just thinking - look - it's still early - we could do something - go somewhere else.
speaker1: all right.
speaker3: ben is driving.
speaker1: where we going?
speaker2: i'm trying to think of where there's a place to have a drink around here.
speaker1: isn't there one in the taft hotel?
speaker1: what is the matter?
speaker2: nothing. i'm just wondering if they have a bar or not. i mean let's go see. let's go see if they do or not.

speaker1: listen, elaine - it seems to me that there isn't a bar in here. 
speaker2: of course there is. look - the veranda room - right there.
speaker3: good evening.
speaker4: hello, how are you, sir?
speaker5: good evening, mr. gladstone.
speaker6: hello again.
speaker7: hi, mr. gladstone. how are you this evening?
speaker2: benjamin -
speaker1: let's get out of here, elaine.
speaker2: benjamin - do they know you?
speaker1: of course not.
speaker8: good evening, sir.
speaker9: mr. gladstone - how are you?
speaker1: come on, elaine. we're leaving.

speaker1: ben brings elaine through the door to the porch. 
speaker2: ben - what's happening? who is mr. gladstone?
speaker3: i don't know. they must think i look like this guy gladstone.
speaker4: ben and elaine in his car. he takes his hand off
speaker3: elaine - i like you. i like you so much. do you believe that?
speaker3: do you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: you're the first - you're the first thing for so long that i've liked. the first person i could stand to be with.
speaker3: i mean my whole life is such a waste. it's just nothing. i'm sorry. i'll take you home now.
speaker2: benjamin - are having an affair with someone?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i'm sorry. that is not my business.
speaker3: it just happened. it was just this thing that happened along with everything else. can you understand that?
speaker2: was she married or something?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: with a family?
speaker3: yes. she had a husband and a son.
speaker2: did they ever find out?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: and it's all over now.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: i'm glad.

speaker1: can we do something tomorrow? 
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: during the day? we'll go for a drive or something.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: you sure you really want to?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: because i wouldn't want you to do it unless you really wanted to!
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: benjamin - i really do.

speaker1: drive down the block. 
speaker2: mrs. robinson - i have a date with elaine. we're going for a drive.
speaker1: do exactly what i say. ben starts the car forward down the driveway.
speaker2: now it seems to me -
speaker1: listen to me very carefully, benjamin. you are not to see elaine again. ever. those are my orders. is that clear?
speaker2: mrs. robinson -
speaker1: i can makes things quite unpleasant.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: in order to keep elaine away from you - i am prepared to tell her everything.
speaker2: i don't believe you.
speaker1: then you'd better start believing me.
speaker2: mrs. robinson, don't wreck it. i'm asking you please not to wreck it.
speaker1: go home now.
speaker2: i just don't believe you would do that.
speaker1: try me.
speaker2: elaine!
speaker2: elaine?
speaker3: benjamin?
speaker2: i'm coming up.
speaker3: i'm not dressed yet.
speaker4: benjamin - i said i wasn't dressed - ben pushes her back into her room.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: you've got to go over the back fence and i'll meet you on the corner.
speaker1: benjamin - what's happening?
speaker2: hurry up. put your shoes on.
speaker3: mrs. robinson is just entering the house.

speaker1: why aren't you ready? 
speaker2: because i want to know what's happening.
speaker1: there isn't time!

speaker1: elaine - i have to tell you something. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: that woman -
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that woman. the older woman.
speaker2: you mean the one who -
speaker1: yes. the married woman - it wasn't just some woman -
speaker2: what are you telling me?

speaker1: please - will somebody tell me - 
speaker1: oh - no.
speaker2: elaine -
speaker1: oh my -
speaker2: please.
speaker2: no - don't cry -

speaker1: don't cry. 
speaker2: get out of here.
speaker2: get out!

speaker1: say that again. 
speaker2: i'm going to marry elaine robinson.

speaker1: well - well - well - 
speaker2: what's happening?
speaker1: ben says he and elaine are getting married.
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker1: that what he says. right?
speaker3: i'm going up to berkeley today.
speaker2: oh, ben - this is so - exciting -
speaker1: come on, let's call the robinsons.
speaker3: no. i think you'll want to wait on that.
speaker2: they don't know?
speaker3: no - they don't.
speaker2: well - when did you decide all this?
speaker3: about an hour ago.
speaker1: wait a minute. you talked to elaine this morning?
speaker3: no. she doesn't know about it.
speaker1: she doesn't know that you're coming up to berkeley?
speaker3: no. actually - she doesn't know about us getting married yet.
speaker2: when did you two talk this over?
speaker3: we haven't.
speaker1: ben - this whole idea sounds pretty half-baked.
speaker3: no - it's not. it's completely baked. it's a decision i've made.
speaker2: but what makes you think she wants to marry you?
speaker3: she doesn't. to be perfectly honest, she doesn't like me.

speaker1: honey - i'm home. 
speaker2: hi - sweetheart.
speaker1: where are the kids?
speaker2: oh, they're having a wonderful time - spending the day at mother's - she's teaching them to...
speaker1: dear mom and dad. you may have wondered why elaine and i haven't written in such a long time, but the postal sytem here in greenland isn't the most efficient. life among these wonderful natives...

speaker1: ben driving over bridge 
speaker2: benjamin - you and elaine have made such a wonderful marriage. i often laugh when i remember those nights at the taft.
speaker3: yes - how long ago that all seems.
speaker2: i'll never forget how peeved i was when i first... it runs down...

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: elaine robinson.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: elaine robinson. does she live here?
speaker1: three-oh-eight. shall i call her for you?
speaker3: looking at ben.

speaker1: not exactly. 
speaker1: i said - not exactly - no. mr. mccleery what are you then?
speaker1: well - i'm just sort of traveling through.
speaker1: ahhh.
speaker1: i'm not up too much, actually, i'm just visiting. i mean - i've always wanted to see berkeley.
speaker1: what? mr. mccleery one of those outside agitators.
speaker1: oh - no sir. mr. mccleery i hate that. i won't stand for it.

speaker1: he sees her and stiffens. 
speaker2: approaching from the distance.
speaker3: he stands.

speaker1: elaine. hey - what a surprise. say - i thought i remembered that you were going to school up here - well - we'll have to get together sometime - i'll be up here myself for a little while. 
speaker2: elaine and the others staring at him.

speaker1: excuse me - i'm sorry - i wonder if i could get by - excuse me - 
speaker1: well - how about this for a coincidence.

speaker1: i was wondering where you were headed. 
speaker2: i'm meeting someone.
speaker1: ah. where?
speaker1: where are you meeting this person?
speaker2: at the zoo.
speaker1: the zoo. they have a pretty good one here, do they?
speaker2: i've never been to it.
speaker1: oh. well, i haven't either. i might just ride out there with you.

speaker1: is that him over there? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: where did he say he was going to meet you?
speaker2: i thought he said by the monkey house.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: benjamin - i would like to know what you're doing here.
speaker1: here? in berkelely?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well, i have this very pleasant room on carter street - and i've been getting to some classes -
speaker2: but you're not enrolled.
speaker1: no. i just sit in. they don't seem to mind. they've been very congenial about it.
speaker2: benjamin - you're - i don't know what to say - you're --
speaker1: maybe we could get together some time and talk about it.
speaker2: - really incredible -
speaker1: here he comes.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i've got a real feeling that this is the fellow.
speaker3: elaine!
speaker1: he certainly is a good walker.
speaker3: am i late? i'm sorry.
speaker1: we thought you said by the monkey house.
speaker2: this is benjamin braddock. carl smith. benjamin rode here with me on the bus.
speaker3: glad to meet you, ben.
speaker1: great meeting you, carl.
speaker1: swell seeing you. have a good time.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: i want to ask you a question.
speaker1: come in.
speaker2: no. i want to know why you're here in berkeley?
speaker1: because - i am.
speaker2: is it because i'm here?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: i think it is.
speaker2: i said i think it is.
speaker1: all right then! yes!
speaker2: well, i want you to leave.
speaker1: elaine - i love you.
speaker2: how could you do that, benjamin?
speaker2: do you just hate everything? how could you possibly my...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i don't understand -
speaker1: did you say her?
speaker2: - how you - how anyone - could do a thing like that.
speaker1: what did she say?
speaker2: let me go.
speaker1: you've got to tell me what she said.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because it isn't true.
speaker2: i don't feel well.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker2: she said she was having a drink in the hotel with a friend. you waited for her in the parking lot and told her she was too drunk to drive home and that you would get her a room for the night.
speaker1: then what?
speaker2: then you took her upstairs and you raped her.
speaker1: elaine - that is not what happened.
speaker2: please let me go.
speaker1: all right - but listen to me. what happened was there was this party at my parents. i drove your mother home - then we went upstairs to see your portrait - elaine tightens her arms around his neck.
speaker2: don't tell me -
speaker1: - and when we got up in the room she starts taking her her clothes off - and -
speaker2: benjamin - this is my mother!
speaker1: - suddenly there she was without any clothes on - i mean really naked -
speaker1: oh - hello, mr. mccleery. mr. mccleery who screamed?
speaker1: it's all right, mr. mccleery. mr. mccleery screaming isn't all right. not in my house it isn't.
speaker1: it was just a visitor. but it's all right now.
speaker3: mr. mccleery what did you do to her?
speaker1: look - she's all right. she's upset and she screamed. but she's okay now.
speaker4: shall i get the cops?
speaker1: what?
speaker4: i'll get the cops.
speaker1: hey - wait a minute. now it - look.
speaker1: see - she's just having some water. now there's no need for the cops or anything. mr. mccleery all right, boys - i think you can get back to your rooms. i don't think we'll have any more of this agitation. will we, braddock?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker1: mr. mccleery? mr. mccleery you heard me. out of here.
speaker1: what for? mr. mccleery because i don't like you.

speaker1: i'm sorry i screamed. 
speaker1: benjamin, when you came up here, what did you think was going to happen between us?
speaker2: elaine - right now i don't feel like talking much. i'm sorry about everything but i think i'll just do this now.
speaker1: can i just sit here while you're packing?
speaker2: if you want.
speaker1: what are you looking for?
speaker2: my belt.
speaker1: don't you have it on?
speaker2: no. i have two. the other one is the one i'm looking for. what's this? it's from my grandmother.
speaker1: the marble?
speaker2: the belt i'm looking for was from my grandmother.
speaker1: oh.
speaker1: what are you going to do now?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: are you going home?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well - where are you going?
speaker2: elaine - you're going to have to stop asking me that.
speaker1: i don't want you to leave tomorrow.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: i don't want you to go anywhere until you have a definite plan.
speaker2: but elaine -
speaker1: goodbye.

speaker1: standing in the darkness by the door. 
speaker2: what's happening?
speaker3: benjamin?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: will you kiss me!
speaker2: will you marry me?
speaker2: you won't?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: but you might.
speaker3: i might.
speaker2: is that so? you might marry me?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: when?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: how about tomorrow? i don't mean to be pushy but -
speaker3: i don't know. i don't know what's happening.
speaker2: you mean you're confused?
speaker2: well - look - don't be confused.
speaker3: i don't see how we can.
speaker2: we just can.
speaker3: i have to go back now.
speaker2: elaine - are you serious about this?
speaker3: i'll think about it.
speaker2: you really will?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: well - let's get together sometime.
speaker2: good

speaker1: we could go down and get our blood tests tomorrow. 
speaker2: tomorrow?
speaker1: or this afternoon. it's a good day for it.
speaker2: benjamin - i haven't even said i'll marry you yet.
speaker1: we'll need our birth certificates. i happen to have mine with me. where's yours?

speaker1: i just don't think it would work. 
speaker2: why wouldn't it?

speaker1: why wouldn't it? 
speaker2: i just don't think it would...

speaker1: tomorrow then - can we get our blood tests tomorrow morning? 
speaker2: why don't you just drag me off if you want to marry me so much?
speaker1: why don't i just drag you off? all right - i will. right after we get the blood tests.
speaker2: well - i have to see carl first.
speaker1: carl who?
speaker1: carl who?
speaker2: carl smith. he's a medical student. we've known him for years.
speaker1: who - that guy at the zoo?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: why do you have to see him?
speaker2: well -- i said i might marry him.
speaker1: you what?

speaker1: how did he do it? did he get down on his knees? he didn't get down on his knees, i hope. 
speaker2: no, benjamin.
speaker1: well, what did he say? i'm curious.
speaker2: he said he thought we'd make a pretty good team.
speaker1: oh no. he said that.
speaker2: shhhh.
speaker1: where did he do it?
speaker1: i'd like to know where it happened?
speaker1: it wasn't in his car, was it?

speaker1: ben and elaine are standing at the entrance. 
speaker2: are we getting married tomorrow?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: the day after tomorrow?
speaker3: maybe we are and maybe we aren't.

speaker1: do you want - do you want to try and tell me why you did it? 
speaker2: mr. robinson?
speaker1: do you have a special grudge against me? do you feel a particularly strong resentment for me?
speaker2: no, it's not --
speaker1: is there something i've said that's caused this contempt? or is it just the things i stand for that you despise?
speaker2: it was nothing to do with you, sir.
speaker1: well, ben, it was quite a bit to do with me.
speaker2: now look - please -
speaker1: ben, i think we're two civilized human beings. do you think it's necessary to threaten each other?
speaker2: i am not threatening you.
speaker1: do you want to unclench your fists, please? thank you. i can see in the dark, you know. i've been here quite a while.
speaker2: i am trying to tell you i have no personal feelings about you, mr. robinson. i am trying to tell you i do not resent you.
speaker1: you don't respect me terribly much either, do you?
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: well, i don't think we have a whole lot to say to each other, ben. i do think you should know the consequences of what you've done. i do think you should know that my wife and i are getting a divorce soon.
speaker2: but why?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: it shouldn't make any difference what happened.
speaker1: that's quite a statement.
speaker2: listen to me. we got - we got into bed with each other. but it was nothing. it was nothing at all. we might - we might just as well have been shaking hands.
speaker1: shaking hands. well, that's not saying much for my wife, is it?
speaker2: you miss the point.
speaker1: don't shout at me, ben.
speaker2: the point is - i don't love your wife. i love your daughter, sir.
speaker1: well - i'm sure you think you do, ben, but after a few times in bed with elaine i feel quite sure you'd get over that as quickly as you -

speaker1: i think i've talked about this enough. i don't know how far i can go, ben. i don't know if i can prosecute or not, but i think maybe i can. in the light of what's happened i think maybe i can get you behind bars if you ever look at my daughter again. i have seen elaine and i have spent the afternoon taking steps to insure... 
speaker1: stay away from me, ben!
speaker1: i don't want to mince words with you. as far as elaine's concerned you're to get her out of your filthy mind right now. is that perfectly clear ro you? that's all, ben. you'll pardon me if i don't shake hands with you.
speaker1: i think you are filth.
speaker1: i think you are scum.
speaker1: you are a degenerate!

speaker1: mr. mccleery - do you have some change? i need to use the phone? mr. mccleery i want you out of here. 
speaker1: look - i'll give you ten dollars for a dime - i'll give you twenty - for sake, will you let me use that phone? mr. mccleery i am going to call the police now.
speaker1: could i make one phone call first? mr. mccleery get out!

speaker1: ben reacting. 
speaker2: her roommate is coming down with a note for you.

speaker1: hello. get me the police, please. 
speaker2: where is elaine?
speaker1: i'll be with you in a moment, benjamin. will you send a police car to twelve hundred glenview road. we have a burgler here. just a second. i'll ask him. are you armed? no - i don't believe he is. thank you.
speaker2: what have you done to her?
speaker1: i think we have everything quite under control now, benjamin. would you like a quick drink before you go?
speaker2: you can't stop me from seeing her, mrs. robinson. i'll find her.
speaker1: i'm sorry we won't be able to invite you to the wedding, benjamin, but the arrangements have been so rushed -
speaker2: what the have you done?
speaker1: ahh. i don't think you'll have time for that drink after all.
speaker2: i'll find her.
speaker1: i don't think so.

speaker1: wedding! it - wedding! 
speaker2: carl - i think you and elaine will make a good team.
speaker3: your father's right, elaine. you and i will make a good team.

speaker1: we have two carl smiths. is it carl with a "c" or a "k"? 
speaker2: i'm afraid i don't know.
speaker1: the karl smith with a "k" teaches history of advertising -
speaker2: and the other?
speaker1: the one with the "c", carl smith junior, is in our medical school.

speaker1: say - fellows - they stop eating and turn toward him. 
speaker1: do any of you fellows know where carl smith is?
speaker2: he took off in the middle of the night to get married.
speaker3: proabaly one step ahead of the shotgun.
speaker1: do you happen to know where he's getting married? i'm supposed to be there.
speaker3: why don't you ask carter?
speaker1: would you happen to know where i might find him?
speaker3: he's probably still in the sack. he's always in the sack.
speaker4: or in the can.

speaker1: hey, carter - where's the make out king getting married? 
speaker2: santa barbara.
speaker3: you don't happen to know exactly where the make out king is getting married, do you? i'm supposed to be there.
speaker2: i don't know. maybe at his old man's home.
speaker1: you going to the wedding?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: give the bride a message for me. tell her to act surprised.

speaker1: hello - who is this? 
speaker2: this is dr. smith's answering service.
speaker1: is the doctor anywhere?
speaker2: well - you see - the doctor is at his son's wedding, but i'm sure it's over by now. he should be checking in any moment -
speaker1: listen to me. i am dr. smith's brother - reverend smith - and i am supposed to perform the ceremony. i just got in - from - portland - and i've forgotten what church - you see?
speaker3: the attendant puts down his magazine and stares.

speaker1: oh. well - i'm not sure - but you might try the first presbyterian. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: i certainly hope you -

speaker1: allan street. where is it? 
speaker2: you need any gas, father?
speaker1: i'm not a priest - i'm a minister.

speaker1: sound: the engine failing. ben looks down. 
speaker2: the needle is on "e".
speaker3: he pumps the gas pedal.

speaker1: oh, - - no - 
speaker1: no!
speaker1: elaine - elaine!

speaker1: looking up at ben. 
speaker2: looking up at ben.

speaker1: who is that guy? what's he doing? 
speaker2: i'll take care of him.
speaker3: he's too late.

speaker1: frozen frame. 
speaker2: frozen frame.
speaker3: frozen frame.
speaker4: her face turning quickly to look up at ben.

speaker1: looking up at ben. 
speaker2: ben!

speaker1: elaine - it's too late. 
speaker2: not for me.

speaker1: how much? 
speaker2: where do you want to go?
speaker1: to the end.

speaker1: let's go. let's get this bus moving! 
speaker2: he turns and starts the bus.
speaker3: they are breathing heavily.
speaker4: benjamin?
speaker1: what?

