speaker1: fine linen undervest slides over his head. 
speaker2: you dance like a herd of cattle, miss fairchild. you are a rare woman who lights up the room... simply by leaving it.
speaker3: tell me leopold, do you plan to join us downstairs after completing this one-sided flash of wit?
speaker2: i despise affairs of this sort, uncle otto. no one really listens to anyone else. if you attempt it, you will see why.
speaker3: you judge everything too severely. i wonder what would happen if you were to cast that critical eye inward?
speaker2: you do not wonder at all. you merely ask in order to state your own opinion.
speaker3: we are all concerned about you.
speaker2: ahh, here it comes.
speaker3: your life does not seem to have any direction. at the age of 25 a man is too young to do anything well. at 35 he is too old. now is your time to take action. tell me, what is it you want to do with your life?
speaker2: i do not know.
speaker3: your ignorance cramps my conversation. wake up! this is your one and only life. every man has the chance to make a difference. do something!
speaker2: i am most grateful for your surveillance and for your sympathy. i assure you there is no need for concern. i am as effectual and attentive... as my position allows.
speaker3: life is not position, leopold. it is action. i will see you downstairs promptly. in the appropriate frame of mind.
speaker4: go spread joy.

speaker1: you dance like an angel, miss fairchild. you light up the room. i thank you. 
speaker1: good evening. i do not believe i have had the pleasure.
speaker2: ...julia carlson.
speaker2: i'm sorry. will you excuse me?
speaker1: you are not from the area, are you?
speaker2: are you?
speaker1: this is my estate.
speaker2: really? well it's not home but it's much...
speaker1: shocking! the ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.
speaker2: the? oh, that's from paris, isn't it?
speaker1: it is a scandal nonetheless.
speaker1: miss carlson, do me the honor?
speaker2: i'm afraid i'm not much of a dancer.
speaker1: truly i would be in your debt. any admonition would be erased simply by presenting a partner as lovely as yourself.
speaker2: no, no. really, i...
speaker1: i suppose we really ought to sing along.
speaker2: oh, golly.
speaker2: thank you for the dance. it was lovely. i hope it wasn't too awful for you.
speaker1: not at all. it was most enlightening.
speaker2: i really must be going.
speaker1: i won't hear of it.
speaker2: no, i'm quite late as it is.
speaker1: i shall see you to the door...

speaker1: miss carlson? 
speaker1: good
speaker2: what are you...? you frightened me.
speaker1: what sort of mechanism is this?
speaker1: answer me!
speaker2: it's perfectly all right. it's...
speaker2: listen to me. please. move very slowly. step out of the machine. step out and i'll explain whatever you want to know.
speaker1: what is this? who are you?
speaker2: oh,
speaker2: get out of there! get out now!
speaker1: miss carlson... i...
speaker2: no!!!
speaker2: 

speaker1:  
speaker1: 
speaker1: 
speaker2: good
speaker3: everybody stay calm... lock the front door.
speaker3: no, no, no. you mustn't touch him. the consequences could be catastrophic.
speaker1: he could be hurt, or even dead.
speaker3: ...all right. touch him.
speaker1: ...but i'm stuck and it's only a dance and he is the seventh duke of albany...
speaker2: carlson...!
speaker3: give me a minute...
speaker1: 

speaker1: who's upset? people fall in love, they have to climb back out. so, what? we'll just be friends now, right? 
speaker1: i see. well i appreciate your honesty. no. i'll just think of this as surviving another dating accident. take care or good luck or whatever i'm supposed to...
speaker1: ...say... goodbye.
speaker2: she's back.
speaker1: that's impossible! she wasn't supposed to return until...
speaker2: kate. it's carlson. something went wrong.
speaker1: ...the 7th duke...

speaker1: ...of albany. he was the... is the son of emery and eliza. he was of no actual importance until he vanished at the turn of the century without a trace. it was a sensation. in the 30's they even made a movie about him. "the tenuous duke" with ronald coleman. 
speaker2: i love ronald coleman.
speaker1: despite much speculation and a nation wide investigation, a body was never found. he was never heard from again.
speaker3: until now.
speaker2: we've altered the course of history.
speaker3: we never should have started this...
speaker1: calm down.
speaker4: what are we going to do? we can't keep him here. imagine if anyone found out!
speaker1: think. just, think. rationally. now, no one would believe such a stupid mistake could be made because no one would believe any of this is possible. so. we fix this. we keep this to ourselves and we fix it. fast.
speaker1: dr. kau, research all our data. 1st priority: locate carlson. drake, determine the reciprocal correlation's connected to the 19th century. work 24 hours a day if necessary. in the meantime... one of us will have to take charge of him.
speaker1: this is a major scientific opportunity. it doesn't get any better than this. imagine. researching the behavior, the physical and emotional characteristics of a century ago! utilizing technology available to us today... he's a gold mine!
speaker4: he's a man, kate. not a guinea pig.
speaker1: and while he's here, he's ours. any volunteers?
speaker2: we'll draw names. whoever is is picked will be responsible. agreed?
speaker3: i'll do it.
speaker4: you'll look after him?
speaker3: no, i meant i'll pick the name.
speaker1: fine.
speaker5: where...? what has happened?!
speaker1: your grace... um... hello... weee aaare a smaaall part of a laaarge research team. a project funded by the government of the united states.
speaker5: oh. americans. i see...
speaker1: yes, um... for the past six and a half years we've been conducting scientific experiments on density and flexibility in the dimensions of time and space.
speaker2: yes, uh... quite by accident we came upon a formula utilizing tachyons... particles traveling faster than the speed of light, which allowed us to... fold time so to speak.
speaker4: yes. bend it between the cracks of the dimensions.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: now, while that wasn't the original purpose of our experiment, we opted to pursue it, well, privately, on our own.
speaker3: borrowing funds already provided.
speaker1: we journeyed to your time because it was the quickest path to follow. we debated long and hard whether we should use this knowledge at all. believe me, it was never our intent to disturb the past...
speaker2: merely to discover if the expedition were possible. as your presence here confirms... we are very disturbed.
speaker4: the problem facing us is not only how to get you back, but when, you see?
speaker1: we certainly don't want to miscalculate. send you to a different era entirely.
speaker4: rest assured, no harm will come to you. you'll be well looked after by dr. coles.
speaker5: dr. coles...? i do not follow. what do you mean, get me back home?... where am i?
speaker5: answer me!... would you have me believe... i am being detained, at present in the hereafter?... the time to come?
speaker4: it is the year nineteen hundred and ninety-five.

speaker1: you're insane! all of you! this is impossible! 
speaker2: leopold, calm down!
speaker1: a voyage through time! what do you take me for? did you bring me here by force?
speaker3: we're scientist, not seditionists.
speaker1: let me out of here! i won't stand for this another moment!

speaker1: leopold, wait! 
speaker2: you don't know what you're doing.
speaker3: just listen to what we have to say!

speaker1: squab. 
speaker2: squab?
speaker1: i remember reading they ate a lot of squab.
speaker2: squab... do you have a squab?
speaker1: i don't know!
speaker2: pull yourself together! are you all right back there?
speaker1: you're going to be fine you know. there's nothing to worry about. i have everything under control.
speaker1: we'll never get away with this.

speaker1: how are you feeling? i thought you might like some tea. 
speaker2: i insist on being returned home immediately.
speaker1: i understand. we're doing our best.
speaker2: i wish to speak with your employer, dr. coles.
speaker1: you're speaking to him.
speaker2: you are not suggesting that you are dr. coles?
speaker2: miss... uh?
speaker1: dr. coles. if you like, you could call me miss dr. coles or if that's too much, how about just plain kate?
speaker2: a woman of science?
speaker1: hard to believe?
speaker2: but a woman's brain cannot obtain enough knowledge to posses a truly scientific mind.
speaker1: interesting. nevertheless, we've come a long way baby.
speaker2: are you attempting to be humorous?
speaker1: i'm attempting to be informative it's just coming out humorous.
speaker1: look, modern social science clearly states that a woman's place in society marks the level of that civilization. a science career for a woman is now almost as acceptable as being a... a... waitress. cream and sugar?
speaker2: young lady, i... surely it is not expected that i remain here with you indefinitely... unchaperoned?
speaker1: does that make you nervous?
speaker2: certainly not!
speaker1: then what are you getting so red about? it's a very large apartment... with locks on all the doors.
speaker2: the idea! my dear miss coles...
speaker1: dr. coles.
speaker2: honey...
speaker1: let's get one thing straight right now. my name is kate or katherine or if you insist dr. coles. take a good long look, leopold. i am a 20th century american woman with a doctorate and a commission and independence. i am not your "young lady" or your "pretty miss" or your "honey." is that clear?
speaker2: honey... for the tea.
speaker1: ...i'll get it for you.

speaker1: thank you... has it been decided what it is i am to do while i am being held here? 
speaker2: oh, just some laundry, the cooking, a little light housework...
speaker2: i took the liberty of preparing a simple schedule to efficiently utilize your time while incorporating you into my routine. as you can see, my day begins with meditation and yoga from 6:30 to

speaker1: you will arise at 6:45, shower and change and at 7:15, we breakfast together. 7:45 we begin the days work. at 10:45 dr. kau arrives to observe you in your natural routine as i research the data that will enable you to return home. at 1:15 we lunch together. 2:15 you answer a daily questionnaire, i type up my notes. at precisely 6:15 you will enjoy 15 minutes of free time, then, at 6:30, i listen to tom brokaw while making dinner as you write down any questions that come up during your day. at 7:00, we dine together. if you need me at any time you may ring this bell. 
speaker1: now, mondays and wednesdays i have computer science class, tuesdays i have therapy. if i have a date, i'm usually home by 9:15. during these periods you may read any of the books i've picked out for you in your room. i organize my next days work at 10:30, 11:35, david letterman, 12:40 i'm in bed. next day we begin again. simple?
speaker2: ...at what time shall i wee and pooh?
speaker3: kate? i'm home.
speaker1: oh. yes. our chaperone is here.
speaker2: your father?
speaker1: sort of. my brother.
speaker2: visiting?
speaker1: for the past two years. charlie can never know about this project. we'll tell him you are a... overly distinguished colleague staying here as our guest. from canada. which would explain your lack of familiarity with our customs and so forth

speaker1: make yourself comfortable. i'll check in on you later. i think this is going very well, don't you? 
speaker1: okay. if you need anything, just ring.
speaker1: charlie!
speaker2: what?

speaker1: what did i do? 
speaker2: rings! and what did i say about you smoking in the house?
speaker1: you were against it.
speaker2: correct. you're back early.
speaker1: hey!... are you all right? you look funny.
speaker2: funny ha ha or funny odd?
speaker1: both.
speaker2: that all depends. how was your trip?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: if it was good i'll tell you the truth. if it was rotten i'll have to butter you up first.
speaker1: butter me up.
speaker2: have you been working out? no, i'm really starting to see results. are you comfortable there on the couch?
speaker1: very.
speaker2: good. cause you'll be sleeping there the next few nights.
speaker1: kate!
speaker2: you have to be out of here by 8 and you can't be back before 6. we have an important man working with us with very unusual needs. the company is insisting he stay here.
speaker1: what about a hotel?
speaker2: this man requires around the clock attention.
speaker1: i meant for me.
speaker2: thank you, charlie. i owe you one.
speaker1: you owe me nine. what am i supposed to do all day?
speaker2: you could get a job!
speaker1: kate, the entire point of being an artist is that i don't have to work. who is this guy?
speaker2: well, i can't tell you much because...
speaker3: i'm not allowed to discuss what goes on at the office.
speaker2: well i'm not. anyway, it might be interesting to have someone else to talk to. it gets so quiet around here sometimes i feel like i've gone deaf.
speaker1: does he have a label?
speaker2: leopold.
speaker1: leopold? is he anything like his name?
speaker2: he's exactly like his name.
speaker1: then you owe me ten.

speaker1: horrible! 
speaker2: he's from canada...

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: it's called hamburger helper.
speaker1: it is beyond help. please serve the next course.
speaker2: i'm afraid there is no next course. if you make a list of the foods you like, i'll pick them up at the store for you.
speaker1: is all food here this... textured?
speaker3: mine's good.
speaker1: please understand, i am used to a different sort of preparation. where i come from a proper meal is the result of reflection and study. a recipe is merely a theme which an intelligent cook can plan each time with variation.
speaker1: several courses are served. menus are often prepared days in advance, timed to perfection. it is said, without the culinary art, the crudeness of reality would make life unbearable.
speaker3: in canada?
speaker1: in canada.
speaker3: we have a saying here. "shake and shake the catsup bottle, none will come and then a lot'll." he pours catsup on his dinner.
speaker1: how interesting.
speaker3: since you're such an expert on fine cuisine, why don't you make dinner tomorrow night?
speaker1: it should be obvious to you that i am not a domestic. you may take my plate.
speaker3: i have my own, thank you.
speaker2: charlie...
speaker3: who died and made me cinderella?
speaker1: young man, there is a distinct impertinence to your voice.
speaker3: it's part of my charm.
speaker1: suppress it.
speaker2: leopold... since you're our guest here, there are several cultural events you might enjoy seeing. charlie has season tickets to the ball game. perhaps you'd like to take that in?
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: what is it??
speaker2: or the opera or the ballet?
speaker3: what is it??
speaker2: charlie, there's no rule that says everyone has to be interested in baseball.
speaker3: no, but i believe there is a rule that says everyone has to have heard of it.
speaker1: dr. coles, your brother charles attitude and demeanor are unacceptable. if i am to stay on here you must have a serious talk with him regarding respect and civility.
speaker2: charles, could you help me with the dessert in the kitchen?
speaker3: in the kitchen?
speaker2: in the kitchen. excuse us.
speaker3: i don't believe this guy!
speaker2: try to be nice to him.
speaker3: i'm always nice!
speaker2: please charlie, as a favor to me.
speaker3: he gives me the creeps.
speaker2: he's different that's all.
speaker3: what was that crack about domestics?
speaker2: charlie, this is important to me.
speaker3: you're not going out with him, are you?
speaker2: eeuuu! i may be desperate but i'm not a lost cause.
speaker3: kate, this is me. i've seen the guys you bring home.
speaker2: i've done countless favors for you! now i'm asking for just one little thing...
speaker3: oh, all right! all right! all right!
speaker2: we forgot the dessert.
speaker3: you know,... i don't know if i mentioned it... but that is one fine looking suit.

speaker1: in our last session you intimated there was a symmetrical system regulating the social order of conformity spanning your era. i found this particularly intriguing if i can just find it in my notes... 
speaker2: the fire brigade!
speaker2: this is insufferable! i refuse to be spied upon, skipped over, or shuffled about any longer. i have yet to venture outside this cell. before i go mad a more suitable arrangement must be found.
speaker1: found it.
speaker2: a resolution?
speaker1: no i meant i found my notes.
speaker2: dr. coles! changes are in order.
speaker1: i can hear you.
speaker2: miss coles, as we are to remain here together, there are certain conditions i insist are met and maintained. i no longer wish to be peeped at, mocked...
speaker1: i never...
speaker2: or interrupted. jot this down. breakfast at 12. luncheon at 4. diner at 8. a horse should be made available from 1 to 3.
speaker1: a horse? in new york city?
speaker2: yes. also, i feel very strongly about your style of dress. i do not care for it. i cannot believe it is the prevailing taste for women to appear masculine and unkempt. if this is the fashion, have it altered.
speaker2: that is all for the present.
speaker2: crumbs, my dear!
speaker1: thank you!
speaker2: dr. coles. i have been acquainted with many women in my time, yet i am compelled to say that the modern woman is by far the least attractive i have ever encountered.
speaker1: and i have a news flash of my own.
speaker1: you sir, are no ronald coleman!

speaker1: chocolate peanut butter cookie dough swirl or peach? 
speaker2: peach.
speaker1: any luck?
speaker2: yea. lots of luck. all bad. no information exists detailing what happened to carlson. i've been working for weeks and i'm not any closer than when i began... how are you doing?
speaker1: my cholesterol level is up 70 points.
speaker1: thank you, kate... how're you managing with leopold?
speaker3: fine. fine... why? what did you hear?
speaker1: nothing. i was just asking.
speaker3: oh. well, it's fine. he's a delight. everything's under control.
speaker2: keep up the good work. she seemed a little scattered. do you think everything's all right?
speaker1: katherine coles is the most capable person we have on this project. if anyone can handle the delicacy of this situation, kate can.
speaker2: so there's nothing to worry about?
speaker1: absolutely not.

speaker1: are you crazy? this is the first time all week my eyes aren't darting to the top of my sockets every five minutes. 
speaker2: when did he leave?
speaker1: i don't know. an hour ago? he said he wanted to take a walk.
speaker2: and you let him?? he's not allowed to go outside!
speaker1: is he being punished?
speaker2: we've got to find him! you stay here in case he finds his way back. and while you wait you'd better pray he's all right. if anything happens to him, anything at all, everything we've worked for will have been destroyed.

speaker1: kate, calm down. 
speaker2: and you'll be responsible. understand?
speaker1: what's the big deal? who is this guy?
speaker2: leopold... is not really from canada.

speaker1: what're ya waiting for lady? an invitation? 
speaker2: i'm sorry! i'm sorry!

speaker1: $7.95 for a sandwich? is that correct? 
speaker2: you gotta problem with that?
speaker1: it seems rather pricey to me.
speaker2: so don't buy one.
speaker1: i shan't.
speaker2: so shan't!
speaker1: yes, i... i would be happy to sample one however i'm afraid i haven't the finance with me just now. if i could establish a credit with you, i will have someone come round with the funds tomorrow.
speaker2: you will gladly pay me tuesday for a hamburger today, is that it?
speaker1: i believe so. yes.
speaker2: get the outta here.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: get out. wimpys me off.
speaker1: may i remind you, merchant, that i am the customer in this establishment and as such require your attention and the utmost respect. i do not accept this modern convention of desecrating one's patrons with such contemptuous disregard.
speaker3: you tell him.
speaker1: need i add that without our patronage you would not own that unwashed counter behind which you spew your filthy mouth?
speaker2: where do you get off? you don't even have any money.
speaker1: don't be irrelevant... i'm browsing.
speaker2: not in my store you're not.
speaker1: do you intend to physically me out...?

speaker1: leopold! oh, leopold thank you're all right. i didn't think i'd ever find you. you had us all so worried. oh, leopold! 
speaker1: don't you ever go out again without my permission, do you hear me? i was frantic. you could have been killed a hundred times over. i never would have known.
speaker1: leopold, are you all right?
speaker2: i wish to go home.
speaker1: okay. i'll get you home in a jiffy.
speaker2: no... i wish to go home.

speaker1: i don't know. it's just leopold. like cher. or goofy. 
speaker1: never mind they just walked in. you look horrible.
speaker2: charlie, don't start. i haven't been this angry at you since you got me into that pyramid thing last year. if you make a wisecrack i'm going to burst into flame.
speaker1: it wasn't a wisecrack. you do look horrible.
speaker2: i'm too tired for this now. i'll just save it up and kill you tomorrow. help leopold out of his things and lets get him to bed.
speaker3: i've something to say. to the both of you. i... nothing is what it seems. after witnessing mere weeks of this age it is painfully apparent i am outside of my acquaintance... i don't know how to proceed. i frankly... am in need of assistance. i'm sorry. i'm not very good at this. in the event you have missed it, i am apologizing.
speaker1: about time. welcome back.
speaker2: don't mind him. his heart would be in the right place if he had a heart. surliness runs in my family.
speaker3: i understand. it practically races through mine.
speaker2: leopold, you made a joke. i mean one that's not at my expense. that's good.
speaker3: we'd better get to bed... that is...
speaker2: yes... i start work... in three and a half hours.
speaker3: oh, dear.
speaker2: it's fine. i'm used to it.
speaker3: you mustn't get too used to it. you'll find life passes you by awfully quickly.
speaker3: thank you for...
speaker2: oh!
speaker3: well, goodnight then.
speaker2: leopold?... i don't have a clear handle on this. perhaps i was wrong keeping you confined to the apartment all this time. i don't know when you'll be able return home... tomorrow i'll start preparing you for the outside world. and... we'll find your way back. i promise.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: oh! i beg your pardon. i, i, i, was merely... i didn't...
speaker1: is there something you want, leopold?
speaker2: i merely wanted to see... that is, inquire, on your availability, for an outing... my assimilation and so forth.
speaker1: yes, we have a lot of work ahead of us. i'll be out in a minute.
speaker2: yes, of course. splendid.

speaker1: are you certain this is correct? 
speaker2: certainly i'm certain.

speaker1: now really. isn't this better? 
speaker1: allow me.
speaker1: sorry. oops! careful there. so sorry.

speaker1: have you seen today's paper? 
speaker2: put it back.
speaker1: but...
speaker2: back!

speaker1: dr. coles, why is it you are not married? 
speaker2: women are longer defined by the men they're married to, leopold. i have a career. i haven't found a man who fits in with that yet.
speaker1: yet people still marry?
speaker2: i've heard of cases.
speaker1: i suspect there is something wrong with you.
speaker2: there's nothing wrong with me!
speaker1: perhaps it is the way you present yourself.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: there is some sort of problem when a woman reaches thirty and insists on remaining single.
speaker2: you think i'm thirty?!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: do i look thirty to you?
speaker1: it was an arbitrary number.
speaker2: you chose it specifically opposed to a lower number.
speaker1: i didn't mean it.
speaker2: ...thirty!
speaker1: i apologize... how old are you?
speaker2: i'm thirty! but you're the first person whoever told me i looked it!
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: and it's not that i insist on remaining single. believe me. everyone dreams of finding somebody to share their life with. to give someone all the love they've been hoarding since they were a kid. i'm no different. but one has to be sensible. i have a career and a life that's filled with...
speaker2: not again...
speaker2: what do i have to do? put a leash around your neck?
speaker1: she is the woman to whom i was referring. you see the problem?
speaker3: yep.
speaker2: what?... what?

speaker1: this is ridiculous. i don't have time to... do you know what this dress costs? let's get this over with. i'm coming out. nobody laugh. 
speaker1: satisfied?
speaker1: ...what?
speaker2: you have a lovely face.
speaker2: we'll take the dress.

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: the drug of the 20th century.

speaker1: leopold, your dinner's getting cold. 
speaker2: i'm coming.

speaker1: ...now within that astronomical structure, dr. drake here is searching for a pathway between your time and the present. he'll find it too if his arteries don't harden first. 
speaker2: astounding.
speaker1: once that is discovered, the search begins for the exact time and date travel will be possible.
speaker2: how are you proceeding? dr. kau merely grunts. leopold looks at kate.
speaker1: don't take it personally. once dr. kau starts working, you just have to wait until her batteries run down. we're all pretty much like that.

speaker1: the complexity of this equation is astonishing? can you really comprehend all that? 
speaker2: i'm a genius.
speaker1: you're quite exceptional dr. coles. that is to say, you all are.
speaker2: thank you. and may i say that sometimes, in dim light, you're not so bad yourself.
speaker2: oh my is that the time? i'm late. therapy. every tuesday night.
speaker1: may i accompany you?
speaker2: you mayn't.
speaker1: i am not certain i understand therapy.
speaker2: no one does. that's why therapists can charge so much.
speaker1: what exactly transpires during therapy?
speaker2: leopold. a gentleman does not ask those questions. come on, we'll get you home.
speaker1: i am perfectly able to travel homeward myself.
speaker1: really! i have finance and our address. i shall take a cabbie.
speaker1: you are late. i insist. i am not a child. dr. coles.
speaker2: all right. don't bite my head off.

speaker1: i can't seem to... 
speaker2: oh, for heaven's sake...

speaker1: i was worried. i thought you weren't going to make it. 
speaker2: all right, kids. pair up!
speaker2: don't think so much, katie. feel the music.
speaker3: i am!
speaker2: dancing should not be work. it should be a vacation the body takes from the mind. let the music wash over you.
speaker3: it is!
speaker2: repeat after me: i've got the muusic in me.
speaker3: i've got the muusic in me.
speaker4: i've got the muusic in me!
speaker2: keep telling yourself that.

speaker1: i've located her. 
speaker2: you didn't! is she all right?
speaker1: no. she's really not.
speaker1: it was taken a year after she arrived. look at her face! we have to get her back.
speaker2: christine, this morning i spoke with the head of funding. they're talking about canceling the project.
speaker1: what?! they can't do that!
speaker2: there's still time. nothing has happened yet that can't be undone. we'll get her back. we'll put this behind us and we'll get her back.

speaker1: is there something on your mind? 
speaker2: this is rather difficult for me.
speaker1: ...uh huh...?
speaker2: i have been in the salon contemplating the reception i have received by the various tradesmen i have visited. i've determined i am lacking the dexterity of modern intercourse.
speaker1: of what??
speaker2: social skills.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i realize our association has been rather distant and i bear you no ill will.
speaker1: you can imagine my relief.
speaker2: the fact is... i need help.
speaker1: why not ask kate?
speaker2: i would appreciate the masculine point of view.
speaker1: why not ask kate?... that was a joke.
speaker1: well? let's see... i guess we could start by removing that great big stick from up your... let's start with your walk.
speaker2: my walk?
speaker1: you don't walk right. you strut.

speaker1: strut strut strut. you walk into the bathroom it's like i'm watching a parade. walk across the room. 
speaker2: i will not.
speaker1: i know you won't. you'll strut. you asked for my help. trust me on this.
speaker2: that's enough! really! you walk.
speaker1: see? easy. relaxed. you try.
speaker1: that's better. now, try to enjoy your walk. it's a beautiful day. the sun is shining, the peasants are singing.

speaker1: interesting? 
speaker1: what the is that?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: leopold, are you wearing a corset?
speaker2: naturally.

speaker1: what'd ya say was the name of this number? 
speaker2: tchaikovsky. waltz of the flowers.
speaker1: pretty.
speaker1: megadeath. high speed dirt.

speaker1: what in the world...? 
speaker2: sorry! we're so sorry. are you hurt?
speaker3: she's another babe ruth. we had no idea. are you okay?
speaker3: what do you have to say for yourself, elizabeth?
speaker4: i'm sorry!
speaker1: is this your child?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i see.
speaker3: c'mon honey, lets go.
speaker4: i want my ball.
speaker1: just a moment! pick a hand.
speaker1: my mother's name was elizabeth. she's a beautiful child. you're very lucky.
speaker2: what do you say, elizabeth?
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: i understand pumpkin pies, pizza pies, and pot pies. but i wish someone would explain eskimo pies. 
speaker1: you smoke camel's, you wear old spices, and you drink mountains dew. it's revolting. the pudding tonight is excellent. another thing i've noticed, everyone is in a great rush today. instant oatmeal, instant coffee, speed stick, minute maid. you'll find there's much to be said for moderation and languor.
speaker1: mmmm. is it tapioca?
speaker2: it's margarine.
speaker1: it's marvelous.
speaker3: well, i'm off.
speaker2: me too. work to do. where are you going?
speaker3: i'm meeting everyone over at caffeine. it's this coffee house we go to.
speaker2: say hello to dennis for me.
speaker1: who is that?
speaker3: dennis is this really good looking friend of mine who doesn't know kate's alive because she doesn't know how to flirt.
speaker2: as a rule i don't like to associate with really good looking people. it makes me feel really... i don't know... smart. but dennis is a nice guy.
speaker3: and he always picks up the check.
speaker1: sounds enjoyable. i shall join you.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: that's a wonderful idea! leopold mentioned how he wanted to meet... people of quality was it?
speaker3: ahhhhh?
speaker1: if you'd rather i didn't go...
speaker2: nonsense! charlie, you don't want to hurt leopold's feelings. he's going to think you don't want him to go.
speaker3: oh it's not that. it's just that it's sort of a vulgar crowd, is all. i'm not sure you'd have such a good time.
speaker1: a little ribald humor? i'm not as big a stick in the mud as you might think! i'd enjoy a gay night out, kicking up my heels.
speaker3: finish off your parquet and we'll go.

speaker1: there they all are. now one more thing. throw the words "like" and "you know" into a sentence whenever possible. it's how people talk today. 
speaker2: proper speech does not cease to exist simply because it is ignored.
speaker1: please?
speaker2: charles, you needn't fret. i have the walk down pat. i will not give myself away. like.
speaker1: oh shoot.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: patrice. see that girl? the blonde one? she's so inconceivably hot.

speaker1: she's very pretty. 
speaker2: she's mine.
speaker1: congratulations.
speaker2: ok not exactly mine. but i saw her first.
speaker1: i understand.
speaker2: okay. i guess we should go in. i don't suppose we could tell everyone you don't speak english?
speaker1: of course not. let's go inside.

speaker1: charlie! where've you been? etc. 
speaker2: hi. uh everyone, this is my friend, leo.
speaker3: hey.
speaker4: hey.
speaker5: waz up?
speaker4: waz up?
speaker6: how are ya?
speaker4: how are ya?
speaker4: may i?
speaker6: help yourself.
speaker4: thank you, my dear.
speaker2: um?... ...i have nothing to say.
speaker4: you did not tell the truth about patrice, charles.

speaker1: what did i tell you, leo? 
speaker2: he informed me you were inconceivably hot, but i think you're lovely. exceptionally lovely.
speaker3: thank you, leo.
speaker1: check please.

speaker1: just drop it leopold. 
speaker2: but charles, it is so ridiculous. i am not interested in her.
speaker1: hah!
speaker2: in any case the problem is not with me but with you. you have no idea what it takes to go about courting a woman. from what i've witnessed tonight, it is symptomatic of your entire generation.
speaker1: you are some piece of work, leopold.
speaker2: now i do not wish to get personal...
speaker2: but you have been of great assistance to me and i feel this is one area where i can be of some real help.
speaker1: i'm fascinated. go on.
speaker2: now, why was i successful with this young lady and why did you so miserably fail?
speaker1: what makes you think she likes you?
speaker2: well she gave me the number of her telephone and i assumed it meant...
speaker1: go on.
speaker2: as i see it, the girl hasn't an inkling of your intentions. and it's no wonder. you, charles, are a merry andrew.
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: a merry andrew.
speaker1: i am not!!
speaker2: everything plays like a farce to you. the more wit, the less courage. i believe the modern woman desires passion, protection, sensitivity. no woman wants to be romanced by a buffoon. banter and repartee are fine but you must add to that a different sort of playfulness.
speaker1: you think i should pounce?
speaker2: i'm saying you must treat her with respect. any oaf can attempt a crude pass. a woman of kate's stature would never respond to an artificial tactic.
speaker1: kate?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you said kate.
speaker2: i did not.
speaker1: yes you did. didn't he say kate?
speaker2: we are discussing your problem.
speaker1: not anymore. you like my sister.
speaker2: charles...
speaker1: she has trouble with men, you know.
speaker2: perhaps she has not met the right one.
speaker1: she has met the right one. hundreds of times. but she pulls back. she cuts herself off. you turn around and suddenly you're dating a sphinx.
speaker2: one never can tell.
speaker1: does kate know how you feel?
speaker2: no...
speaker1: have you made your intentions known to her?
speaker2: no...
speaker1: who's the merry andrew now?! i think you're all talk and no action. what are you waiting for?
speaker2: i do not know if there is a future in it.
speaker1: well leopold, no one ever does...

speaker1: royal family -- uncouth. making out -- slow soulful kissing... woman as equals?? 
speaker1: who drove the chevy to the levy and why was it dry?
speaker1: eyes shine when she talks about... science. raises her voice when she knows she's wrong. bossy, bossy, bossy. lose my train of thought when i see her smile. most beautiful when she's angry. honorable heart... peasant feet.

speaker1: ooops. bread and butter. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: bread and butter. it's an old saying... well not to you i guess. you say it when you pass someone in a cramped space. as close as bread and butter.
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: so. did you have a good time last night?
speaker2: it was very interesting.
speaker1: did you find that person of quality?
speaker2: yes. i did.
speaker1: well... fine. i guess it's time to turn in.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: goodnight.
speaker2: kate?
speaker2: goodnight.

speaker1: hi. i brought you some flowers. 
speaker2: charlie!
speaker1: miss wochuchowski? i was wondering if you would do me the great honor of accompanying me to the cinema tonight. and allowing me the privilege of escorting you to dinner afterwards.
speaker2: it's beautiful.
speaker1: gracing me with your conversation and company would mean the world to me.
speaker2: um... 7:00?
speaker1: 7:00 is fine. i'll call for you then.
speaker3: goodbye.
speaker1: goodbye. it worked!
speaker3: of course it did.
speaker1: leopold, i... i'm... i have no idea what to do next!
speaker3: charles. leave everything to me.
speaker1: not so fast, buddy. you're next.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: good morning. you're up early.
speaker1: i'm terribly sorry!!
speaker2: happens all the time...
speaker1: dr. coles?... ah, kate? i was wondering...
speaker1: what it is you're working on.
speaker2: oh. it's my computer.
speaker1: i see. actually i meant the work itself.
speaker2: i'm researching the correlations between your time and the present.
speaker2: i'm trying to get you home, leopold.
speaker1: oh.
speaker1: i have never seen a woman work as diligently and extensively before.
speaker2: it's made me the man i am today.
speaker1: it's quite a beautiful day, have you noticed? perhaps you would permit yourself some time off and grant me the privilege of escorting you around the city this fine spring afternoon.
speaker2: oh, i'd love to but i can't. i've got too much work to do. ask charlie though. he'll go with you.
speaker1: i'm afraid it really wouldn't be the same. it is your company i am seeking.
speaker2: oh, leopold. i'm so sorry. i can't.
speaker1: i see. some other time then.
speaker2: yes... thank you.
speaker2: oh for crying out loud. would you look at this? leopold? the computer's on the blink again. cheap piece of equipment. i can't...
speaker1: maybe if you...
speaker2: no, no, it does this all the time. just have to wait it out.
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: darn.
speaker1: ...perhaps it is a sign?
speaker2: oh, you think?

speaker1: i... i must have gotten a funny horse... 
speaker2: allow me.

speaker1: that's simplicity in it's purest form. it speaks volumes in it's nothingness. whiteness representing emptiness. hopelessness. it's bleak. bleak! 
speaker2: aaand this represents...?
speaker1: absolutely nothing.
speaker2: i'd almost forgotten how beautiful it was. truly. beautiful.

speaker1: they collapse on the couch. 
speaker2: ah, jfk, pdq, xyz.
speaker3: i don't know. k.d. lang.
speaker2: i don't know how you keep up with it. i'm exhausted.
speaker3: so am i.
speaker2: i'll tell you what. why don't i prepare dinner tomorrow night? i never have before. i mean even before i hit town. "hit town" how's that? i can't imagine what it'll taste like, but i don't think it will be any worse than your cooking.
speaker3: leopold, i have a date tomorrow night.
speaker2: i see.
speaker3: a blind date.
speaker2: oh, i'm so sorry.
speaker3: no, that just means i haven't met him before. it was set up through friends.
speaker2: ah!
speaker3: a hazard of single life... i'm turning in.
speaker2: another time then.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker2: it's quite all right.
speaker3: leopold? i had a wonderful time today. i can't remember the last time i took the day off and just played. i'd forgotten how beautiful this city can be... i want to thank you for that.
speaker2: the pleasure was mine.

speaker1: it's a very fancy restaurant, leopold. are you sure you can teach me everything there is to know? 
speaker2: just don't swipe the silverware and give yourself away.
speaker1: nobody's talking to you.
speaker3: it is very simple. i will be your date. just behave as you normally would and i'll correct you along the way. now, me in.
speaker1: now what?
speaker3: pull the chair for a lady! clod.
speaker2: no name calling.
speaker3: well, really!
speaker3: you're not shoveling coal into a furnace, charles. glide the chair in gently. gently. try it again.
speaker3: well, sit down!
speaker1: now don't burst a vein or anything, but there are quite a few knives and forks here. how do i know what each one's for?
speaker3: merely start from the outside and work your way in.
speaker1: what kind of beer should i order?
speaker3: beer!

speaker1: how do i look? 
speaker2: you look exquisite, katherine.
speaker1: thank you, leopold.
speaker3: this is a tie i'm wearing.
speaker1: you look very nice, charlie.
speaker3: yes. i know.
speaker1: that must be him.
speaker2: your bland date?
speaker1: blind date.
speaker3: remember to breathe, kate. and don't use to many big words. you'll scare the poor slob away.
speaker1: this is always the scary part. "open the door to my, mystery date."
speaker4: hi. kate?
speaker1: larry?
speaker1: well, i'm off.
speaker2: kate, may i have a word with you?
speaker1: now?
speaker2: yes. i don't like the look of him.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: cad. i can spot one a mile away. i shall you out myself. i will act as your chaperone.
speaker1: that isn't necessary. i'll be fine.
speaker2: it is no trouble.
speaker1: goodnight, leopold.
speaker2: but...
speaker1: goodnight.

speaker1: sit down. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: so. how am i doing?
speaker2: i beg your pardon?
speaker1: how am i doing? first date. you pleased? you disappointed?
speaker2: undecided.
speaker1: i see.
speaker1: so. what did jeannie say about me?
speaker2: about you? ah, she said you were tall.

speaker1: and nice looking. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: thank her. and that you persevere ardently on wall street.
speaker2: well, i work there...
speaker1: that must be very interesting.
speaker2: you've obviously never worked on wall street.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what else did jeannie say about me?

speaker1: have i told you how much i liked your painting? 
speaker2: twice.
speaker1: if you get tired of hearing about it, let me know. i have to admit i was sort of surprised when you called. i didn't think you liked me, charlie.
speaker2: when i first saw you, i thought...
speaker1: what do you think now?
speaker3: aaand that's about all jeannie said. what did jeannie say about me?
speaker4: she said you were enormously sexy, had a great body, but you don't put out.
speaker3: quite a compelling portrait.
speaker4: would you say it's an accurate portrait?
speaker3: a masterpiece.

speaker1: i'm telling you the guy was a a total asshole! 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: jeff murray. the guy i've been talking about. hello?
speaker2: goodbye.
speaker2: don't get up.

speaker1: leopold? 
speaker1: leopold?
speaker1: oh, leopold...
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: bread and butter.
speaker2: you're back early. did you enjoy your date?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: here, you've got some...
speaker2: is it gone?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: a funny thing happened to me on my bland date this evening, leopold. i really can't explain it. this puffed- up, puritanical, blundering, greenhorn kept popping into my mind all night long at the most inopportune times. i couldn't get rid of him.
speaker2: how inconsiderate.
speaker1: yeah, it was. the harder i tried, the more persistent he became. he's conceited and inflated and unseasoned and it doesn't seem to matter... he's 134 years old but i can't get him out of my head.
speaker2: is he there right now?
speaker1: right here. larger than life.
speaker2: i'll protect you...
speaker2: dr. coles, would you grant me license to dine with you tomorrow evening at eight o'clock?
speaker1: permission granted.
speaker2: until tomorrow, then.

speaker1: you look beautiful. 
speaker2: you do. what have you got there?
speaker2: hamburger helper!
speaker1: i know you like it.

speaker1: tell me more. 
speaker2: um, where was i? so after my father died i had to go to work.
speaker1: have you had many jobs?
speaker2: many. i got fired from all of them. i'm the most unskilled person i know. but they were just survival jobs while i was still in school. i always knew i wanted to go into science like my father. and i did.
speaker1: do you miss him?
speaker2: i think about him every day. he was courtly, just like you.
speaker1: i think you are a remarkable woman katherine coles.
speaker2: you just don't get out much. you'd be surprised how remarkable i'm not.
speaker1: no, it is you who would be surprised.
speaker1: kate...

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: morning.

speaker1: morning. 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker1: look what you've done!
speaker2: it's nothing.
speaker1: nothing? my own mother never made me a breakfast like this.
speaker2: i will have to have a talk with her.
speaker1: leopold...
speaker2: kate...
speaker1: about last night...
speaker2: please sit down.
speaker2: kate, i had never before been a considerate man. i had, with astonishing complacency, squandered my life, waiting for some incentive to force me into action. you have made me see how rare our time here really is. i am most beholden to you kate. and always will be.
speaker1: i sense the word "but" entering into this any minute now.
speaker2: do me the honor katherine, of becoming my wife.
speaker2: shall i take that as a "yes"?
speaker1: leopold! did you just ask me to marry you?
speaker2: i love you, kate.
speaker1: that's entirely beside the point... you're moving way too fast here. shouldn't we date first? i mean it's obvious the first one went well...
speaker2: where i come from that's pretty much the way it works.
speaker1: leopold, even though last night we... loved each other, that doesn't mean this morning we're engaged. it just doesn't work that way now.
speaker2: i have loved you since i first set eyes on you. i cannot imagine my life without you beside me. i want to marry you, kate and make an honest woman of you.
speaker1: oh leopold, sit down.
speaker1: relationships these days are much more complicated than that. women today have certain freedoms that men have been taking advantage of for centuries. you must have been aware of that. if you think about it clearly, it should be obvious to you that marriage between us is out of the question.
speaker2: do you not love me kate?
speaker1: don't ever think that...
speaker2: then consider my proposal.
speaker1: i'll think it over but i can tell you now the answer is...
speaker1: possibly.
speaker2: i need you beside me. i will not give up easily.
speaker1: do what you have to do... charlie enters. kate and leopold become extremely selfconscious.
speaker3: morning.
speaker4: morning!
speaker2: coffee?
speaker3: i would like some coffee.
speaker1: of course. say when.
speaker3: when.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker3: uh huh.

speaker1: kate, are you all right? 
speaker2: fine! i'm fine.

speaker1: public office is apparently still the last refuge for the incompetent. show me a man who does not want his gun registered and i'll show you a man who should not own a gun. what is a pee-pee girl? 
speaker2: what are you reading?
speaker1: the village voice. after much consideration, i have decided it is time i join the work force.
speaker2: as a pee-pee girl?
speaker1: perhaps not that, but i am determined to acquire honest employment.
speaker2: leopold, i don't know if that's such a good idea.
speaker1: kate, my life back home was beneficial to no one. i want my new life to have value. i won't make the same mistakes twice.
speaker2: you have to be patient.
speaker1: i could conceivably wait my whole life away.
speaker2: you're awfully cute when you get causey.
speaker1: i will not waste any more time. i must make a difference.

speaker1: try our fragrance? would you like to try our new fragrance today? 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: it is called, poison.
speaker2: oh! i don't think so. have you got

speaker1: i beg your pardon? 
speaker2: elizabeth taylor's passion?
speaker1: next aisle over.
speaker1: give your mother-in-law what she really deserves this season. give her some poison.

speaker1: hi. what's the matter? 
speaker1: so you know.
speaker2: we had to go through your computer to access information. your calculations have been verified and the final course has been set. leopold goes back a week from friday 1:17 a.m.
speaker3: how long were you going to keep it a secret, kate?
speaker4: were you even going to tell us at all?
speaker1: i'm not sure.
speaker3: not sure? what can you be thinking? you can't alter the course of history and assume everything will be okay. it won't be. he has his own destiny to fulfill in his own time.
speaker1: you don't understand.
speaker4: he's going back, kate.
speaker3: it's over.
speaker1: no... no, no, no.
speaker5: there you are. i've only been hollering for the last...
speaker5: kate? what is it? what happened?
speaker1: it's time. leopold's going back.
speaker5: kate...
speaker1: yup. i'll get his things together. tell him tonight.
speaker5: are you all right?
speaker1: i'm fine.
speaker5: you don't look so fine.
speaker1: well i am. it was wonderful having him here, charlie. he was of invaluable assistance to the project. i'll miss him.
speaker5: you'll miss him?
speaker1: i will.
speaker5: goddamnit kate, you love the guy!
speaker5: kate, don't do this. please. it's not right.
speaker1: what am i supposed to do, charlie?? i can't go back. he can't stay. i can't let him go. i'm not equipped to deal with this, charlie. i don't know how.
speaker5: listen to me, kate. don't! don't be the ice princess.
speaker1: i'm not!
speaker5: you are. you can't live your whole life under a microscope. you've got to tell him how you feel.
speaker1: it's too much, charlie. it's just too much.
speaker5: you owe it to him.
speaker1: i didn't know i could feel like this. i really didn't know.

speaker1: so i looked him right in the eye and said, 'ego is nature's compensation for mediocrity.' i turned and i walked. he never said a word... he probably didn't understand it... kate? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: are you all right? you're awfully quiet.
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: how was your day?
speaker2: it's time.
speaker2: we're sending you back.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: a week from friday, early morning.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: it was a mistake, leopold. it's out of our hands. we can't pocket people from history like stolen jewels. we haven't the right... i'm sorry. we'll miss you.
speaker1: is that all?
speaker2: what do you want me to do, fall apart? you'd still be leaving. it wouldn't solve anything.
speaker1: who is this woman sitting across from me?
speaker2: what do you want me to say, leopold?
speaker1: tell me that you love me as i love you. let me hear you say it.
speaker1: i will not do this. i'm sorry.
speaker2: leopold!

speaker1: good look at you. you look awful. 
speaker2: you should see what i'm looking at.
speaker1: i went back to the restaurant. they told me you went out looking for me right after i left.
speaker2: that was pound cakes ago. where were you?
speaker1: i had a lot to think over.
speaker2: such as?
speaker1: just where i stand around here.
speaker2: we should have come up with something together. i might have been spared ten or seventy pounds.
speaker1: is that an apology?
speaker2: i'm sorry for what i said.
speaker1: i'm not going anywhere.
speaker2: yes you are...
speaker1: i'm not going. i'm staying here with you.
speaker2: but? you can't! we have no right to...
speaker1: it is my destiny. it is my decision.
speaker2: have you thought about what you'd be sacrificing? your influence? your authority?
speaker2: your family, your whole way of life, everything?
speaker2: you're not just feeling sorry for me because i ate the contents of the refrigerator, are you?
speaker1: i love you, kate. the single most miraculous event in my life was not how i arrived here, but that when i did, i found you.
speaker2: here comes the mushy part!
speaker1: after much consideration i've come to the conclusion i no longer desire a large estate with a full staff and ornate grounds.
speaker2: that's good, because if you're staying i'll probably get fired again. what do you desire?
speaker1: a beautiful wife, a small home in the middle of nowhere, lots of children, and fine schools with pms meetings every other sunday.

speaker1: this is outrageous! i won't allow it! 
speaker2: the decision is not yours to make.
speaker1: do you realize what you're saying? you're tampering with fate, preordinance, and himself.
speaker2: we do that every day, doctor. it is called choice.
speaker3: dr. carlson is still over there. you can't simply abandon her. we have to get her back.
speaker4: do you think i'm not aware of that? do you think a minute goes by that i don't feel responsible for her? but

speaker1: only one person can return. the capsule accommodates only one person. leopold has to find her. 
speaker2: perhaps she does not wish to return. perhaps she's found greater happiness in her new life. it happened to me.
speaker3: maybe this is her destiny. maybe she's of more important use back there.
speaker1: julia carlson died in the center factory fire of 1897, two years after she arrived. she was 37 years old.
speaker4: dear lord.
speaker1: she was a friend, kate. she was never expected to sacrifice her life for this experiment. i won't be a party to it. i know what i'm asking... there's no way we can force you to go. just think it over.

speaker1: you're going back aren't you? 
speaker2: i keep seeing that poor woman's face. she was terrified.
speaker1: you said you wouldn't leave me... i've never been lucky. not one time.
speaker2: six months ago i wouldn't have given it another thought. i wouldn't have lost a moment's sleep. you've changed me, kate. there is no turning back.
speaker1: i wouldn't want you to change. that's what's tearing me up inside. either way i lose... you've changed me too. i can't go back to my old life anymore. i can't live like that again. my heart is pounding like a drum. i've never been so scared in my life. take me with you, leopold. take me with you.
speaker2: you don't realize what you're saying! you don't understand the kind of life you'd lead. what you'd be giving up.
speaker1: i'd be with you.
speaker2: i can't ask that of you.
speaker1: just ask me... just ask.
speaker2: come back with me.
speaker1: yes!

speaker1: where are you taking me? 
speaker2: this is something i've wanted to do for a long time.

speaker1: leopold? 
speaker2: this will be very therapeutic.

speaker1: the time tables have been set. just strap yourself in and you'll be fine. 
speaker2: you have only a twenty four hour leeway before the machine is set to return to us. you must find carlson within that time frame and get her on board or there will be little chance of her finding a way back.
speaker3: i understand.
speaker1: it's been a real pleasure. you have a much nicer smile than ronald coleman.
speaker3: the privilege was mine.
speaker4: goodbye leopold, and thank you.
speaker3: oh, my.
speaker4: don't worry. we'll send kate to you... as soon as possible. i'll see to it myself.
speaker3: see that you do.
speaker4: you have my word on it.
speaker1: four minutes and counting.
speaker5: well? i'll make this quick. goodbye.
speaker3: goodbye. i shall miss you charles, more than you know.
speaker5: i'll miss you too, leopold... you're the only one who knows how to program the vcr... take care of my sister.
speaker3: i will.
speaker6: you better. take care of yourself too while you're at it... so long.
speaker7: i don't have any words for this.
speaker3: i will see you soon.
speaker7: i know.
speaker3: you'll be with me all the time.
speaker7: i know. i brought you something.
speaker7: so you wouldn't forget me.
speaker3: kate...
speaker7: so you wouldn't think this was all a dream.
speaker7: don't forget about me.
speaker3: i love you, kate.
speaker7: wait for me.
speaker3: for as long as it takes.
speaker7: i will come back to you! i will!
speaker3: i'll be waiting.
speaker1: it's time leopold.

speaker1: i cannot in good conscience let you go. it's out of the question. 
speaker2: i can't be a part of it either kate. i'm sorry.
speaker3: it's too big a risk.

speaker1: we cannot guarantee your child's safety. it's that simple. 
speaker2: he's waiting for me. i can feel it. oh, leopold...

speaker1: hi. does katherine coles live here? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: you're leo aren't you? you don't remember me but i knew you when you were yea big. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm julia. i'm an old friend of your mothers.
speaker2: we had spaghetti at our house 4 times this week.
speaker3: leo you don't have to holler like that. i'm not deaf...
speaker1: kate?
speaker3: ...carlson?!
speaker3: carlson, i don't believe it. it's been... i don't know how many years. what are you doing here.
speaker1: i came to see you, sweetie.
speaker3: you remember my son, leo?
speaker1: we've just been getting acquainted.
speaker3: well, come inside. come inside.

speaker1: would you like some tea? i wish you had called before you come over. it would have given me a chance to straighten up the house... myself... my life. tell me what you've been up to. catch me up on everyone. i heard you received some big endowment or something. i was going to write, then call, but... 
speaker2: it's all right, kate. i understand.
speaker2: you'd leave in 9 days. that's not a lot of time to get your affairs in order... and i warn you, it's nearly impossible for an intelligent woman back there.
speaker2: he's a fine boy kate. leopold would be proud. we're aware of your situation but we felt when the time came, you deserved the option.

speaker1: who was that lady? 
speaker2: just an old friend.
speaker1: what she want?
speaker2: nothing important. you brush your teeth?
speaker2: then give your old mom a hug and go to bed. good night, cookie.
speaker1: good night.

speaker1: he's so young, charlie. 
speaker2: he's old enough.
speaker1: look at that idiotic expression on his face.
speaker2: he's happy.
speaker1: of course he's happy. all weddings are happy. it's the living together afterwards that causes all the trouble.
speaker1: oh, you're so young... i love you, leo. always remember that...
speaker3: mom, we're only moving to denver.
speaker1: i know, cookie. i know.

speaker1: well... 
speaker2: i know. me too.
speaker1: what will i do without you, charlie?
speaker2: live happily ever after.
speaker3: kate, it's time.
speaker4: here. it's a letter for my father. tell him about me and... um, tell him i love him. i want him to know me.
speaker1: leo...
speaker4: mom, i want you to go.
speaker1: but...
speaker4: go.
speaker3: ready!

speaker1: i just love a starched white shirt. it's so elegant. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: skeeky.
speaker2: yes. you dance like an angel miss beall. you light up the room around you. i thank you.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: an elderly couple watch leopold with interest.
speaker4: who is that dancing with leopold?
speaker5: i've never seen her before.

