speaker1: good throw, joe. it was there. 
speaker2: so was half their team. another christmas at home.
speaker1: next year, man. next year we sell out. next year we dominate.
speaker3: you still need a deep threat or a breakaway back to go with joe kane. what are you gonna do to address this need?
speaker4: stop wastin' my time talkin' to you guys for a start.
speaker5: i'm not gonna lead you into the fog here, sam...

speaker1: i'm concerned about our program. it's always been a source of pride to our students and alumni, but two straight so-so seasons are having a damaging effect on our fund-raising, both public and private. 
speaker2: then stop raising the entrance requirements on me. we never could have gotten alvin mack in here under the new guidelines.
speaker1: as chancellor, my first responsibility is to the academic interests of this university.

speaker1: at a time when we're committed to a 400 million dollar building program, alumni donations are down 15% the last two years. because they've also voiced their displeasure to their legislators, we can expect a corresponding drop in state funds. 
speaker2: the athletic fund is suffering too. season tickets sales are off, merchandising's slow...
speaker3: you layin' all this at my door? there's been a recession on.
speaker4: yes, but the heaviest drop has been from the big donors, the 100,000 dollar club. these people are recession proof. they sit in my box every game, and they're much more generous when we're ranked and going to bowl games. two of them, as you know, are on the board of regents, including the chairman.
speaker3: what are you trying to say to me, grant? after 12 years, my job's in jeopardy?
speaker4: i'm not prepared to discuss your job right now; i just want you to be aware of the situation. the alumni and the legislature are unhappy and they vote with their checkbooks. i don't pretend to be an expert on football, sam, and i'll deny that this conversation ever took place, but i do know we need to win next year.

speaker1: tickets are in your coat. itinerary and player profiles are in your briefcase. we got a 9:00am tomorrow in philly with this kid darnell jefferson. 
speaker2: looks like i've lost weight.
speaker1: this kid's the gamebreaker we've been lookin' for.

speaker1: darnell, you have the potential to start for us as a freshman. that 108 yard kickoff return you made against taft? one of the greatest runs i've ever seen a high school player make. now, michigan is set at tailback for two years. you won't play till you're a junior. with joe here gettin' you the ball, runnin' 28 thunder right, you'll be all-american with us as a sophomore. 
speaker2: yes, but i'm really more concerned with darnell's education. he came here late. he's got some catching up to do.
speaker1: believe me, education is the first priority in our program. that's why all the players are smarter than me. after all, a football coach is smart enough to understand the game, but enough to think it's important.

speaker1: it's real pretty, alvin. 
speaker2: when i turn pro, i'll get you the house to go with it.

speaker1: have another vitamin i, joey. didn't think we'de see you here this christmas, little brother. 
speaker2: you won't next year.
speaker3: you're from e.s.u?
speaker4: yeh. i was just sittin' here by the fire doin' my homework, and decided to give you a call. see how you're doin'.

speaker1: now for the starting line-up for the e.s.u. timber wolves. at tailback, number 20, darnell jefferson!! 
speaker2: you got that right.

speaker1: thanks for showin' me around, autumn. i don't meet too many females like you. you got a lotta class. real efficacious. maybe i'll check you out in the fall. 
speaker2: i hope so, darnell.
speaker2: good night.

speaker1: hey, darnell, welcome to e.s.u. 
speaker2: yeh, good to see you guys. what happened to the band and the dancin' honies?
speaker1: regular students don't come back for two weeks yet. not that they woulda been here. now that you've enrolled, you're just another wormshit freshman.

speaker1: here's your room. if you need anything call the hall manager. 
speaker1: see ya later. freshman placement test tomorrow at nine. mckinnley hall.

speaker1: uh, oh, the lead dog is back. there goes my cover of the media guide. 
speaker2: hey, bobby, lats, how ya doin? this is darnell jefferson, freshman tailback.
speaker3: how ya' doin'?
speaker1: i was hopin' you'de have rolled your bike or somethin'. nothin' serious, just enough to keep you out for the season.
speaker2: no such luck, backup man. but i'll try to engineer a few blowouts. get you get some mop-up time. lats, you look buffed, man. you put on some weight?
speaker4: 35 lbs. spent the summer in the gym. i'm tired of watchin' you guys play. i intend to start this year.
speaker5: you get any bigger, you can play offense.
speaker4: yeh, but don't i have to get dumber too?
speaker5: you still seein' louanne?
speaker1: yeh. now and then, when the tide rises. don't want her to think this is some kind've exclusive deal.
speaker2: coach finds out you're nailin' his daughter, you'll be playin' dorm ball.
speaker1: i'll bail before that. besides, this is what he gets for not startin' me.
speaker6: hey, man, you seen this?

speaker1: you must be some very bad-ass motherfucker. 
speaker2: jesus...
speaker3: what? you didn't know?
speaker2: i knew there was gonna be an article. i didn't know it was gonna be on the cover.
speaker1: we do all the work. you get all the pub. too bad we're not allowed to hit you in practice. be fun to kick the out of a heisman trophy candidate.
speaker2: i guess you'll have to wait till we get to the pros.
speaker1: beer boy, get me some.
speaker4: are you serious?
speaker1: does it look like i'm serious?
speaker3: listen to this. "e.s.u. has a solid nucleus returning, but the timberwolves, coming off two disappointing seasons, will only go as far as the strong right arm of heisman candidate joe kane will take them." that right, joe? you gonna lead us to the promised land?
speaker2: i'm gonna lead... but can you follow?

speaker1: what are we doin', joe? 
speaker2: there's something i wanta try. gotta wake up our mojo. start settin' the tone for the season.
speaker1: this is not a good time to be settin' anything. you're in no shape...
speaker1: joe, c'mon joe, don't be an joe! god-damnit, why's he always doin' like this? coach'll kill me. alvin, go get him, will ya?
speaker3: no, you go get his ass. crazy motherfucker.

speaker1: this 
speaker1: c'mon, joe, that's enough. let's get the outa here. what if somebody drifts or crosses the line to pass?
speaker2: what's the matter, bud? can't you follow?
speaker3: startin' to look like a loaf of wonder bread out there.
speaker4: they're makin' us look like pussies, ya know. standin' here suckin' our thumbs.
speaker3: what are you lookin' at? you think you're bad?
speaker5: this guy do this kinda a lot? they never mentioned this in recruiting.

speaker1: i don't know... i left a lot of 'em blank. 
speaker2: don't worry, you'll do all right. lotta people don't finish.
speaker1: yeh.
speaker2: what are you doin' with the trophy?
speaker1: coach winters asked me to bring it to the meeting. i don't know what for.
speaker1: i'll see ya at the meeting. take this for me, will ya?
speaker1: hey, autumn, hold up! what're you doing here? i thought students didn't come back for two weeks.
speaker3: i came back early to see a friend.
speaker4: you're looking fresh, autumn. a package of pulchritudiness. what about getting together later tonight? maybe get a pizza? they got pizza in this town don't they?
speaker3: i can't tonight.
speaker1: how about tomorrow night?
speaker3: i don't think it's a real good idea for us to see each other, darnell.
speaker1: what's the matter? i'm not good enough for you all of a sudden? too young, is that it? i'm not, ya know. they held me back a year.
speaker3: no, it's not that... i've got a boyfriend.
speaker1: did you have this boyfriend when you showed me around?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: yeah, well, it didn't seem to bother you then. i'm willing to overlook it now.
speaker3: i was mad at him.
speaker1: for what?
speaker3: i caught him with another girl. a white girl.
speaker1: and you're still with this nigger?
speaker3: look, i got to get going, darnell. i'm sorry. i didn't mean to lead you on. i'm glad you came here.
speaker1: wait a minute. i can at least walk with you, can't i? nothin' wrong with that.
speaker3: i'm in a hurry.
speaker1: i can keep up. i run the forty in four-four.
speaker5: hey, autumn --
speaker3: hi, ray. this is...
speaker1: darnell jefferson. tailback.
speaker5: ray griffen. starting tailback.
speaker1: i know. that's why they recruited me.
speaker5: the two guys they recruited before you are handing out gatorade now. better start strengthening your wrist.
speaker1: we'll see. give my best to miss lilly.
speaker5: what the is that supposed to mean?

speaker1: good to see you again, gentlemen. jefferson, either take off the earring or put on a dress. 
speaker1: i wanna talk a little about what we're trying to do here. there are many highly respected people who feel football is about preparation for life.
speaker1: these people are full of you see, football is not like life. it's better. more exciting, more intense, more fun. in life, people are always wondering how they measure up; whether they're getting ahead or fallin' behind. in football, you know. every week you get a chance to show what you're made of, a chance to demonstrate the physical and personal qualities that all those poor who can't play this game are left to agonize about.
speaker1: last year we didn't make enough of those chances. last year everyone felt we let the school down. the school. we let ourselves down. we let down a great tradition, a 120- year-old line of champions.
speaker1: any football program worth the name is a special brotherhood, an elite corps of warriors, a select group of knights. that first time our starting unit takes the field, the first time we huddle up; that's our inner circle, that's our round table. if i were an upperclassman, i'd be real nervous about my seat, cause we got some very talented new-comers this year. guys who want a place at the table. this is the trophy one of our freshman, darnell jefferson, won as a pennsylvania state high school first team all-american. you know what this says to me?
speaker1: not a god-damn thing.
speaker1: everybody here was a high school all- american. whatever any of you have done before is out the window. we're startin' over. ground zero. the table is empty. are you ready? the upperclassmen nod, steely, purposeful. we go to the freshmen. they're not so sure.

speaker1: he's too pumped up. tryin' to win the heisman on every throw. i'm not sure he's ready for all this hype. 
speaker2: little late to be worryin' about that. if we don't follow up the sports illustrated cover with something, it'll look like we didn't believe in our own player.
speaker3: don't worry, joe's a tough kid. he'll be allright.

speaker1: hey, nice writhing, jefferson. you got all the moves. 
speaker2: allright, move it up. let's go, 15 yards, run the next play.
speaker2: cut the necktie tackle horseshit. you think you're in some kinda highlight reel? he left you huggin' air. target his guts. drive right through his abdomen. i wanta see snot bubbles in his nose. i wanta see in his underwear.
speaker2: you injured, jefferson, or just hurt?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: if you're hurt, you can still play. if you're injured you can't. are you hurt or are you injured?
speaker3: i think i'm just hurt.
speaker2: o.k., then get up.
speaker2: nice run. think what it coulda done for us if we still had the ball. this is a football. i want you to carry it with you wherever you go. never let it out of your sight. any of you see him on campus, take a swipe at the ball. try to knock it out of his hands. recover it. if anybody, but you, returns this ball to me, you'll wish you'de never been born.
speaker2: this isn't gonna get it, goddamnit.

speaker1: lattimer's an animal all of a sudden. benchin' 450. he's gotta be on somethin'. 
speaker2: what, steroids? why do you always think my guys are juicin'?
speaker1: i don't know... he's on the punt team for three years, then gains 35 pounds of rip in one summer and an attitude to go with it.
speaker3: we're not doctors, gentlemen. the ncaa has testing programs for this. let's let them worry about it. besides, it's not that hard to put on 35 pounds in a summer, if you really hit the gym.

speaker1: what you got tonight? 
speaker2: choice of three entrees. shrimp, lasagna, t-bone steak.
speaker1: tough choice. i'll take all three.
speaker2: what a surprise.

speaker1: when do they give ya the scores on that placement test? 
speaker2: who cares? i flunked it three times, before i got in.
speaker3: long as you're in the program, they'll get you through. maybe not with a degree, but they'll keep you eligible. just don't do nothin' embarrassing they can't cover you for.
speaker2: hell, they even give alvin copies of his tests in advance. he sells 'em for a hundred bucks a pop to people in his class. 'course he's gotta have somebody read 'em to him.
speaker3: you, doughboy. i can read. see that shoe? that says nike.
speaker1: i still don't wanna flunk that test. i wanta get a degree.
speaker3: what do you think, nigger? you're gonna be on the supreme court? all you need to know is how to sign an n.f.l. contract.
speaker4: what's the matter with you guys? you're supposed to be a team. winning depends on thinking and acting and going to war together. but you don't even eat like a team. you eat like two teams. a white one and a black one. what do i have to do? make out a seating chart? now get up. move around. mix it up. now!
speaker1: hi there. darnell jefferson. i'm a young black man.
speaker5: hey, glad to meet ya. joe kane, caucasian. so what doya think a that new garth brooks album?
speaker1: i love that motherfucker.
speaker4: that's more like it.

speaker1: how ya' doin'? 
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: little late to be workin' out, isn't it?
speaker2: only time i could get in here when the football team wasn't usin' it.
speaker1: well, if it wasn't for the football team, might not be a weight room to use. you tryin' to firm up a little, or what?
speaker2: don't need to firm up. i'm strengthening my knee. had arthroscopic surgery.
speaker1: had my knee scoped once too. when you're finished here, maybe we could get a yogurt, compare scars.
speaker2: sorry, i don't date football players. they're all full of themselves. i saw you on the cover of sports illustrated, so you're probably worse than most.
speaker1: that's real open minded of you. so you won't consider doin' anything with me?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well at least tell me what happened to your knee. what'd you do? fall outa your convertible?
speaker2: you know, there's maybe one thing i'd do with you.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: tennis. i'll play tennis with you.
speaker1: tennis. you mean now? it's raining.

speaker1: thanks for the game, heisman. you took it really well. 
speaker2: what's this heisman crap?
speaker2: i didn't say anything about being a heisman candidate. i don't go around strokin' myself about it. so what's this you're givin' me?
speaker1: i... i'm sorry... i just figured you were probably kissin' yourself in the mirror every morning.
speaker2: you figured wrong.
speaker1: so what do you want, an apology? i just gave you one.
speaker2: i want a rematch.
speaker1: a rematch?
speaker2: some other sport. i took my beating. you owe me one. either that or we go out.
speaker1: i'll think about it.
speaker3: real good date, joe. remind me to take her out.

speaker1: darnell, i've reviewed your placement test and i'm afraid you failed to meet our entrance requirements in two areas. 
speaker2: what does that mean? i can't play football?
speaker1: no. it means you're going to have to take some remedial classes, what we call "zero level" courses. specifically math 0 and english 0.
speaker1: you won't get college credit for them, but they will help you prepare to take the placement test again at the end of the quarter. if you pass at that time you'll be able to officially enter the university and take college level courses. you'll still be able to take an american history survey course, but it won't count on your record until you pass the placement test. but first things first. to start, i'm approving a tutor for you.
speaker2: a tutor? i don't need no tutor.
speaker1: any tutor. and yes you do.

speaker1: i think both joe and the university are best served by a straightforward heisman campaign. nothing too gimmicky. 
speaker2: we've compiled a mailing list of around 1300 opinion makers; newspapers, football writers, and sports anchors. first we send them a packet on joe and his achievements. bio, stats, plus human interest stuff; commitment to academics, charity work, etc. then we update it each week with a postcard. heisman voters hate opening envelopes.
speaker3: i haven't really done any charity work...
speaker2: you're gonna start. we've got some things lined up.
speaker4: unfortunately, because we weren't in the top 20 last year, we only have one network t.v. game to give joe national exposure. although it's a good one; michigan. but we'll also be taping all our other games and buying satellite time. that way we can produce our own highlight package and interview pieces and send them out to t.v. stations all over the country for their sportscasts.
speaker5: any questions, joe?
speaker3: ah, no... i just... you really think i got a shot to win this?
speaker5: hell, yes. plus it's a good thing for the program. publicizes the school, gives a boost to recruiting, and it's a great thing for you. jumps up your draft position, the size of your first contract, everything. it's a of an opportunity.
speaker4: all you gotta do is back it up on the field, and we have no doubts about that, cause we know "kane is able."

speaker1: this is joe kane. what did you decide? 
speaker2: what? it's 3:00 in the morning.
speaker1: i wanta know what you decided.
speaker2: i don't know... i couldn't think of any other sports i could beat you at.
speaker1: then i'll pick you up tonight at
speaker3: he hangs up.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: hey, autumn. 
speaker2: hi, darnell. what are you doin here?
speaker1: my advisor says i need a tutor. ya know, just to get me over a couple rough spots. i saw your name on this list. i figured if you couldn't keep my attention, nobody could.
speaker2: i'm sorry, darnell, but i've already been assigned. you're gonna have to find somebody else. i'm tutoring scott sherman.
speaker1: not anymore. i asked coach winters to switch us.
speaker2: coach winters wouldn't do that.
speaker1: yeh he would. i'm a bigger prospect than sherman. he's a lineman on the scout team.
speaker1: c'mon autumn, you could teach me some real erudition.
speaker2: will you stop using those big words. it sounds ridiculous.
speaker1: what doya mean? i'm improvin' myself. i learn a new word out of the dictionary every day. mendacious, pejorative, antithetical, commensurate...
speaker2: and you don't ever use them right. pretending to be smart is not the same as being educated. or erudite. it's just a con. and it makes you sound stupid, no matter how big a prospect you are.
speaker1: o.k... even more reason for you to be my tutor. you already taught me something.

speaker1: we goin' on that? 
speaker2: yeh. i thought we might take a ride.
speaker1: i promised my dad i'd never get on one of those.
speaker2: what are you, one of these trust- fund princesses? it's fine for me to play a game i don't know, but i ask you to try somethin' different and you hide behind your daddy.
speaker1: all right. but we go slow. no cowboy stuff.

speaker1: this speed, o.k.? 
speaker2: yeh, fine.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: slow down, damnit. joe... joe!
speaker2: joe, look out!!!

speaker1: how could you do that, you stupid punk? it isn't funny, god-dammit, you coulda killed us! you're crazy, you know that... 
speaker2: take it easy. i've done that a hundred times. no big deal.
speaker1: oh, yeh? then why are you shaking?
speaker2: i don't know... i guess cause i've never done it with someone else on the bike.
speaker1: you just wanted to scare me. are you happy now?
speaker2: yeh, pretty much. and the scream was even better than i thought it'd be. every dog within hearing distance wants to mate with you now.

speaker1: you come here a lot? 
speaker2: now and then. why?
speaker1: it's not exactly a campus favorite. this is almost like hidin' out.
speaker2: i like places where nobody knows me. this too low-rent for you?
speaker1: no, my dad owned a place like this.
speaker2: your dad? you mean he owned a chain of these?
speaker1: not everybody with a southern accent has their own plantation. my dad could never afford to send me here. i learned to play tennis on public courts. mighta been able to play pro someday, if i hadn't hurt my knee.
speaker2: so you're just a scholarship jock like me.
speaker1: yeh. you disappointed?
speaker2: no, i've just never been out with a jock before.
speaker1: is that what we're doin' here? goin' out?
speaker2: i don't know. what doya think?
speaker1: i think you're crazy for jeopardizing your scholarship and a pro future by jumping motorcycles off of highways.
speaker2: just tryin' to keep my edge, camille. the other guys look to me cause they think i'll do anything. i lose that, i'm just another guy, and we all get our kicked.
speaker1: i don't know, joe. you scare me.

speaker1: the keys. 
speaker1: i told you, as long as you're in this program, you don't take unnecessary risks off the field. a man in contention for the heisman trophy should be able to remember that.

speaker1: o.k., using the things we worked on yesterday, i want you to write a two or three page essay on some aspect of your life. something other than football. 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: your father, maybe. you could write about your dad.
speaker2: don't know that much about him. he was off in detroit workin' in a car plant when i was born. got laid off, tried to rob a jewelry store to get us some money. he died in prison. some kinda heart problem.
speaker1: how about your mother?
speaker2: she was always workin'. usually two jobs. comin' home one night she stopped to get us some root beer. got caught in a gang crossfire. shot three times... died on the way to the hospital. you want me to write about that?
speaker1: no...
speaker2: good, 'cause none of it's true.
speaker1: christ, darnell what a terrible thing to do to somebody. that's not funny. that's sick.
speaker2: had ya goin', didn't i?
speaker1: no you didn't. you just... how could you make up somethin' like that?
speaker2: sounded more interesting than the truth. my mom took a vacation to chicago when i was 12. never came back. don't know who my dad was.
speaker1: who took care of you?
speaker2: i started hangin' with the j.b.m., gang-bangin'... did some time in the hall. reverand wallace saw me playin' football on a juvenile probation team. took me in, got me into high school. only reason they accepted me was 'cause i could play football. sorta like here. football saved my life. i'd be nowhere without football.
speaker1: well, then... maybe you could write about football this once.
speaker2: yeh, o.k... thanks. i've seen a lotta things in my life, autumn. that's why i know when i see somethin' good.
speaker3: let's review the chapter i read you yesterday. which two city states fought in the punic wars?
speaker4: i dunno. detroit and buffalo.
speaker3: c'mon, alvin. you're gonna be tested on this.

speaker1: okay, alvin, this is mississippi state's offensive set. 2nd and 2 on our 24. what defense are you in? 
speaker2: eagle. zipper. hero. unless the set back shifts into the i.
speaker1: good. how about here? 3rd and 7.
speaker2: okie. thunder. lion.
speaker1: what's your assignment?
speaker2: kill the quarterback. hit the tight end so hard his girlfriend dies. kill everybody.

speaker1: all right, let's get evil. 60 minutes, out. let's open a can of kick- ass. kill 'em all. let the paramedics sort 'em out. 
speaker1: hey, 23, don't think i don't recognize you, you little
speaker1: hey, pay attention when i'm talkin' to you, nigger. you're the guy that shot my mother aren't you?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you were tryin' to steal her car weren't you,
speaker2: shut up. i never heard of your mother.
speaker3: what's alvin saying to that guy?
speaker4: just gettin' himself pumped up.
speaker3: he wasn't pumped up already?

speaker1: atta baby, alvin, heads up. big pop, steve, way to stick 'em. o.k. joe, let's go up top. take it to 'em right away. 
speaker2: bali hi, will call you, anytime, any day. here am i, your special island...
speaker3: shut up, snowflake. you think you're in the school play?
speaker2: no, bali hi, the endzone is calling. and the highway runs right over your ass.
speaker3: bullshit, you're gonna be my baby. you gonna be my punk

speaker1: jefferson! in for griffen. 
speaker2: 2:05 left. kane hands to jefferson...

speaker1: good game, man. really enjoyed it. 
speaker2: yeh, you're a strong motherfucker. singer though.

speaker1: good to see ya in there, darnell. way to hold on to that pigskin. 
speaker2: hey, some guy just gave me a 50 dollar bill.
speaker3: don't worry, you'll get 5 or 6 hundred once you're startin', depending on how you play.
speaker2: but we're not supposed to get any are we?
speaker3: hey, man, you can't live on $500 a month scholarship money. and the nc double won't let us have jobs, so you take your money where you can get it. i'll keep it for you, till you see the light. they oughta be payin' us anyway. athletic department gets 3 million just for goin' to a bowl game.

speaker1: this performance today -- two touchdown passes, another you ran in. where do you think this puts you in the heisman race? joe hates this question. we go to the screen. 
speaker2: i really have no idea. that's up to you guys.

speaker1: i don't know, i never seem to make out at things like this. 
speaker2: you don't make out anywhere. or did you finally break the barrier this summer?
speaker1: you, bobby. excuse me, louanne.

speaker1: forget it, nigger. no chance for you there. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: griffin's goin' to medical school. she likes that light-skinned respectable you're just her ghetto toy.
speaker2: can i have this one?
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker2: what are you so worried about? you haven't lost your starting job yet.
speaker4: just one.
speaker4: take it easy, darnell. this isn't a good time to push things. you're putting me in an awkward position.
speaker2: yeh, well, i got a little encouragement along the way.
speaker4: that kiss... it was just... a kiss.
speaker2: you meant it. i wouldn't be standing here now, everybody thinkin' i'm a stupid asshole, if i didn't know you meant it. i wanna see you, autumn. not in study hall. not like your student. like somebody to be taken seriously.
speaker4: i do take you seriously, darnell, but i'm still with ray. i can't just go paradin' around town.
speaker2: i don't need to go paradin'. we'll go someplace different. someplace nobody'll see us.
speaker4: why am i even considering this?
speaker3: all caught up on your arithmetic?
speaker2: yeh, you only gained 37 yards on 12 carries.
speaker5: just what we need, a little team unity.
speaker3: i'm gettin' a little sick of this asshole, autumn. i don't like you hangin' out with him. it's embarrassing.
speaker4: i don't hang out with him. i tutor him.
speaker3: then have him get another tutor.
speaker4: i can't do that. i made a commitment to help him pass his qualifying exam. i can't bail out on him now.
speaker3: what the difference does it makes? they'll grease him through no matter what he does. nobody's ever gonna see his graduation. don't tell me you're falling for this guy. he's just another gang-banger with speed.
speaker4: i just said i wanted to help him. what are you more afraid of, losing your girl or your position?
speaker3: maybe you oughta think about what you're in danger of losing.
speaker4: maybe i will.

speaker1: maybe she's out with some guy. 
speaker2: who? camille? i don't think she's the type to screw around on ya. shoot ya, maybe...
speaker1: it wouldn't be around. it's not like we're going together.

speaker1: yes, i figure the key is to go places only white people go. next time we'll go bowling. 
speaker1: plus i saw this in rocky. i never believed a guy who was supposed to be an athlete would skate that bad, but now i know.
speaker2: thanks, that was fun, sort of.
speaker1: you were pretty good for the first time.
speaker2: well, it's not really my first time. my dad took me skating once.
speaker1: he used to play ball for e.s.u., didn't he?
speaker2: yeah, how'd you know that?
speaker1: i saw his picture on the wall of fame. you got his eyes. luckily, you didn't get his thighs.
speaker1: make sure you mean it this time.

speaker1: what are you doin' here? 
speaker2: couldn't sleep.
speaker1: i was just sweatin' out some of the beer.
speaker1: i didn't go home with her. i thought about it... but i didn't.
speaker2: you drink too much.
speaker1: yeh.
speaker2: why didn't you?
speaker1: why didn't i what?
speaker2: go home with her?
speaker1: i don't know... i guess i figured maybe there was somethin' goin' on between you and me.
speaker2: then why'd you pick her up in the first place?
speaker1: i was drunk... i needed some company.
speaker2: company? yeh, i can see you havin' a real far-ranging discussion with sheri.
speaker1: i mean, ya know, physical company... i was... i just needed to pounce on somebody i guess.
speaker2: why can't you pounce on me? aren't i good enough to pounce on?
speaker1: well, you're more conservative... classier... you're not that kinda girl...
speaker2: how do you know? you've never slept with me.
speaker2: what makes you think she's such a great ride? i'm prettier, my legs are longer... i've got better why would you go to her, when you have me?
speaker1: i didn't know i had you.
speaker2: well you do.

speaker1: you shoulda looked for me at the library, or don't you ever go there? 
speaker2: i go there. i got a 3.2 in political science. i just don't go there on saturday nights.
speaker1: i have a paper due monday. what'de she do? sit on your lap or just give you the nail-me stare?
speaker2: shut up, camille.

speaker1: what's your name? 
speaker2: bobby collins.
speaker1: can i see your i.d.?

speaker1: coach, we, ah... got a problem with bobby collins. 
speaker2: yeh...
speaker1: he talked... a friend... into taking a test for him and got caught. they had a new t.a. in there...
speaker2: what's the penalty?
speaker1: well, the rules say automatic expulsion for both of them.
speaker2: fortunately, we've got friends on the board of regents. i think we can beat this if we really go to bat for him. we got mack off when he turned in that other guys term paper. but what kinda would do something like that?
speaker1: well, i guess bobby figured he was gonna flunk...
speaker2: i don't mean bobby. i mean what kinda guy would be enough to take a test for him?
speaker1: uh, well... it wasn't a guy.
speaker2: a girl? typical collins. he must have banged her until she couldn't think straight. who was it?
speaker1: it was... louanne.

speaker1: louanne, how could you be so stupid? 
speaker2: i... he was behind, he needed help. i'm sorry. i just...
speaker1: sorry! you're sorry! you've destroyed my credibility at the university, my authority with the players... christ, it looks like i'm running a dirty program. and collins of all people! what the hell's the matter with you, louanne?
speaker2: i don't know... i thought he... loved me...
speaker1: loved you? he loves anything that winks back, the little rat bastard. and what are you gonna do for school now? i use my influence to get you back in, it'll stink to high hell. the press'll crucify me.
speaker2: i'll get in someplace.
speaker1: louanne, i told you to stay away from my players. that was my cardinal rule, stay away from the players...
speaker2: they've always been good enough for you. good enough to devote your life to. why aren't they good enough for me? or are they too good?
speaker1: you're changing the subject, louanne. we're talkin' about you breakin' the rules.
speaker2: didn't you ever break the rules just a little? didn't you tell me once that 90 per cent of the schools obey the ncaa rules, and the other 10 per cent go to bowl games? was that just a joke?

speaker1: you seen this? you got a d on your math test. 
speaker2: yeh, i kinda figured that. i had some trouble on this last part...
speaker1: we went over that last week, darnell. what is this time we spend in here? just a joke to you? i don't even think you've been listening to me.
speaker2: i've been listening to you, baby...
speaker1: don't call me baby. i thought you wanted to learn. but if all you wanta do is fake your way through, then get another tutor to waste time with.
speaker2: c'mon, autumn, we just had a good time, and now you're gettin' all nuts behind this. it's just one test.
speaker1: so far, it's the only test. i want you to study this whole chapter. by yourself, without me here. when i come back, we'll discuss it. be ready to do problems based on it.
speaker2: whatever you say, teach. i don't wish to be cast in a pejorative light, so i'm dedicating myself to achieving on a level more commensurate with my abilities.

speaker1: coach'd probably shoot ya lower. 
speaker2: you all played a fine game on saturday. take the day off.

speaker1: listen, coach, i just want you to know i'm really sorry about this whole thing with louanne. i was real glad to hear she's gonna be goin' to junior college here... 
speaker2: shut up.
speaker2: i could easily take your case to the board of regents. you've had no prior infractions and i could argue that you were under abnormal pressure. but i won't. you embarrassed me, you embarrassed my family, you embarrassed the program. as of now, you are no longer a member of this university or it's football team. clean out your locker.

speaker1: we ready, jerry? o.k., let's mark it. 
speaker1: joe, this game is being billed as a potential "heisman shootout". did you feel any added pressure this week...

speaker1: hold it! hold it! 
speaker2: what?! what's the problem?
speaker1: what you're saying is true, of course, but i don't think it's the message you want to send.

speaker1: this game is nationally televised, so most heisman voters will be watching. i think a more casual approach is better. modest, controlled, casual. 
speaker2: we all set now? let's mark it. joe, this game is being billed as a potential "heisman shootout."

speaker1: your parents comin' to the game tomorrow? 
speaker2: my mom's dead. my dad has never seen me play.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: guess he's not that interested in football.
speaker1: but you're one of the best players in the country.
speaker2: he's just not into it, o.k.?
speaker1: o.k. what's goin' on, joe? you ask me out here, like you wanta talk about somethin', then you don't say anything. you worried about tomorrow?
speaker2: no... i'm worried about the days after that. i just. i don't know... i feel like tomorrow's gonna be my last game. i want to stay up, make the time go slow.
speaker1: why would it be your last game? you afraid of getting hurt?
speaker2: no, that'd be a relief. then, at least, i wouldn't be a failure.
speaker1: joe, why are you thinking like this? why would you be a failure? you're having a great year, you're a heisman trophy candidate, you got millions of dollars waiting for you in the pros.
speaker2: how do you know what's waiting for me? you don't know me at all.
speaker1: i don't know you? how can you say that?
speaker2: because you wouldn't be here now if you did. you only know the guy that's supposed to make millions in the pros.
speaker1: is that what you think? that i'm with you for the money?
speaker2: why else?
speaker1: you, joe.
speaker1: joe! joe! my joe, what are you doing? no! no!
speaker1: joe, oh are you allright?
speaker2: yeh, just got some dirt in my teeth. guess you've really seen the dark side now, huh? you should've gotten out while you had the chance. before it all goes to hell.
speaker1: i don't wanta get out, damnit. what's wrong joe? why would it all go to hell?
speaker2: i'm a kane, camille. that's all it takes. we're cut out to be drunks and we never live up to expectations. it's in our blood. my dad, brothers, uncles -- we all drink and sooner or later we all up. my dad went the longest. waited till he was playin' triple a ball, before he hit the wall. sometimes i feel like i'm just waiting for my turn. the better i do, the closer it gets.
speaker1: you're not like them, you can beat all that. you can stop drinking, you can break the chain.
speaker2: if i gave up that, i wouldn't be much of a football player. and if i wasn't a football player, what would i be?
speaker1: you'de still be joe. and i'd still love you.
speaker2: just don't say i never warned you.

speaker1: well, it was billed as a heisman shootout, and it's been all of that. both waymen and kane moving their teams up and down the field, having big days. 
speaker2: kane back to pass, can't find anybody, gonna run it himself, ten, five, hit at the goal-line... touchdown e.s.u.!! great run by kane!
speaker1: he's still down. looks like he's hurt.

speaker1: how many fingers am i holding up? 
speaker2: four.

speaker1: hey, powderpuff. you're the white boy that ratted my brother out. sent him to jail, ran off with the money. left the blood to do the time, huh? 
speaker1: yeh, you're the little bastard. account of you, my bros' datin' his cell mate. you hear me, powderpuff? gonna make you pay. you gonna be my cellmate now. you gonna have 250 lbs. of pissed-off up your ass.
speaker2: e.s.u. in an eight-man line looking for the run on third and short.
speaker2: waymen fakes to simms, mack on the blitz, waymen is goin for it all! hit as he throws.
speaker2: hunt has got a step. he's got it! touchdown!
speaker3: great clutch throw under pressure. can't do it much better than that.

speaker1: you're vision's back to normal. 
speaker2: you think you can go?
speaker3: yeh, i'm fine. just a little headache. o.k. offense, let's get it back.
speaker4: tough to scare that little white boy. either his momma dropped him on his head, or the is deaf.
speaker2: jefferson, in for griffen.

speaker1: ball on the michigan 47, 1:02 to go, kane brings 'em to the line of scrimmage. 
speaker1: great run by jefferson, the highly- touted freshman, the longest of the day for the wolves. and this one is turning out to be everything we thought it would be.

speaker1: o.k., time to put the women and children to bed, and go looking for dinner. 
speaker1: 82 strike, eagle, crown, on 2.
speaker2: kane looking for jefferson. it's... intercepted! intercepted by freeman! and that should do it.

speaker1: hey, autumn. 
speaker2: hi, darnell.
speaker1: is this your dad?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: how do you do, mr. haley. i'm darnell jefferson.
speaker3: jefferson? nice run you made on that screen pass. another block and you might have scored.
speaker1: thank you. we'll get 'em next year.
speaker3: how do you and autumn know each other? you a friend of ray's?
speaker2: ah, i tutor him...
speaker3: oh really? in what?
speaker1: math and english.
speaker3: ah.
speaker3: well, stay on top of that, darnell. i'd have been in real trouble if i hadn't gotten my degree. i played ball once. hurt my knee.
speaker1: yeh, i know...
speaker3: i used to put a copy of my report card inside the webbing of my helmet to remind me that college was more important than football.
speaker1: good idea. well, i gotta get goin'. nice to meet you mr. haley.
speaker3: nice to meet you, darnell.
speaker1: see you around, autumn.
speaker4: hey, mr. haley. good to see you.
speaker3: hey, ray. you still havin' dinner with us tonight?

speaker1: anybody seen joe? 
speaker2: not yet. probably out with camille. haven't seen darnell either.

speaker1: i think we better get back downstairs. 
speaker2: no, leslie, we're just getting to know each other.
speaker1: no, i think...
speaker2: c'mon leslie, you didn't come up here to stop now.
speaker2: what were you doin'? leadin' me on?
speaker2: get outa here!
speaker3: this is it, man. no more 'roids. this has gotta stop.

speaker1: it looks like this will blow over. the girl's father is a big booster, contributed a lotta money. so he said they won't go to the press. 
speaker2: he said that? the father?
speaker1: yeh, he's not exactly happy about all this, but he doesn't wanta hurt the program.
speaker2: we're still gonna have to suspend lattimer.
speaker3: what for? there aren't any charges. nobody outside the program knows about this.
speaker2: he's outa control, lyle. we can't ignore this anymore. i don't know what me off more -- that he's juicin' or that he's doin' such a job of hidin' it.
speaker3: he's never tested positive. if we suspend him without proof, he could sue us for jeopardizing his draft status, his pro career.
speaker2: yeh, but we can't sit and wait till he kills somebody. i hate to lose him as much as you do, but we gotta clean him up before he does somethin' that lands the whole program on probation. plus, we have to take some action or the girl's dad is gonna start havin' second thoughts. i don't care how many checks he's written.
speaker1: so what do we do?
speaker2: bring him down here.
speaker4: three games? why so many?
speaker2: you oughta be grateful i didn't suspend you for the whole year.
speaker4: what are you gonna give as the reason?
speaker2: we'll say you've got a hamstring pull.
speaker4: thank you, coach.
speaker2: don't thank me. during those three weeks, you better kick the roids, cause when you come back i'm gonna personally test you before every game. no n.c.a.a. either. i'm gonna watch the go into the bottle. you got that?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker2: start practicing your limp.

speaker1: coupla real college heroes, huh? tearin' up the town. 
speaker2: first time i ever lost a girl and a game on the same day. guess i never really had the girl.
speaker3: you know that guy?
speaker4: not really...
speaker3: then why you smilin' at him?
speaker4: i don't know... he looks like that e.s.u. quarterback guy. joe, what's his name?
speaker3: so what? so you go and smile at him?
speaker3: you been lookin' at my girlfriend?
speaker1: i don't know. which one is she?
speaker3: wise guy, huh? mr. bigtime quarterback. the one who choked his off today. you got nothin' better to do then look at my girlfriend?
speaker3: hey, heisman, i'm talkin' to you. you too good to talk to me?
speaker1: i'm not even interested in talkin' to you.
speaker3: you think you're a bad ass? you think my girl's hot for you? take your pads off, you're just another pussy.
speaker2: c'mon we gotta get outa here.

speaker1: the guy went for me first. what was i supposed to do? 
speaker2: doesn't make any difference. it made the papers, all the wire services. the guy had to go to the hospital. worst of all they got you on drunk driving. you had a blood alcohol level .50 above the legal limit. we can't smooth that over, joe. it'd look like we were sprayin' pledge on bird we had to agree to send you to rehab.
speaker1: rehab? i'll be a god-damn joke. you can't do this to me.
speaker2: it was the only way we could get them to drop the assault and d.w.i. you go to trial on those, we lose you for a year, and risk ncaa investigation. c'mon, lotsa athletes have been through rehab.
speaker1: not in the middle of the season. not in the middle of a heisman campaign.
speaker2: you'll only miss four games. you'll be back in time for the last one, georgia tech, and a bowl if we get there. plus, you've still got your senior year.
speaker1: yeh, but what will i come back as? what kinda player?
speaker2: don't worry, you'll still be the man. you'll still be the leader of this team.
speaker1: i'm sorry, coach.
speaker2: these things happen.
speaker2: kids.

speaker1: darnell, wait. c'mon darnell, i wanta talk to you. 
speaker1: where you been, i been callin' you?
speaker2: been busy.
speaker1: darnell, i'm sorry about saturday. it was an awkward situation.
speaker2: it wasn't awkward. it was educational. i realized how you see me. i'm good enough to tutor, to go places with, but not to tell your father about.
speaker1: that's not it. it's just that my father expects me to be with somebody like ray. he wouldn't understand us.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i don't know... he likes ray cause...
speaker2: he's a good student, he acts right... he doesn't need football. he's class and i'm not, right?
speaker1: i didn't say that.
speaker2: you don't have to, autumn. i'm everything your dad used to be and don't want you fallin' back into.
speaker1: darnell...
speaker2: you were right before, autumn. i should have another tutor. thanks for everything you did for me.

speaker1: the defense is gonna have to pitch shutouts now... and you're gone for 3. what the did you take that for? 
speaker2: nobody seemed to mind when i was knockin' people's in the dirt.
speaker1: i bust chops too. i don't have to get all up.
speaker2: not everybody has the ability you do, alvin. you do what you have to do to play.
speaker1: well, you're not playin' much now are you? whole season down the drain.

speaker1: i been talkin' to chancellor wilson... 
speaker2: what's he wanta do now, cut practice down to once a week?
speaker1: no, he's happy with the way the season's gone so far. the alumni have pretty much stayed off his back, but with joe out now, it could all be up for grabs again.
speaker2: he thinks he's gonna have trouble marchin' the ball down the old fund- raisin' board, huh?
speaker1: the facts are, all we have left are freshman quarterbacks, and nothin' i saw at practice today, convinced me that any of them are ready to step in.
speaker2: what are you sayin?
speaker1: we gotta get bobby collins back.
speaker2: wilson say that?
speaker1: he didn't have to.
speaker2: forget it, galen, collins is no all- star either.
speaker1: yeh, but he's good enough to get us a split of the next four games.
speaker2: look, just because you're wilson's boy all of a sudden, doesn't mean i'm gonna let him make me look like a whore.
speaker1: don't give me that high and mighty there's a lotta people on the bubble here. four straight loses and we're out of bowl contention. how's that gonna make you look? if you're too stupid to consider your own situation, then maybe you oughta think about your assistant coaches. they've got families to feed too.

speaker1: therefore, i respectfully submit that bobby collins should not be given special treatment just because he's a football player. would a regular student get a reinstatement hearing if they'de been caught cheating? nobody's talking about letting the girl who took the test back in. 
speaker2: i think it's also instructive to look at some of the courses this young man has taken. beginning golf, voice and speech improvement...
speaker3: i'd like to point out that mr. collins was still on schedule to get his degree.
speaker2: in what, swimming pool management?
speaker4: would you like to respond, coach winters?
speaker5: i don't know much about all this other stuff, but i do know the punishment should fit the crime. cheating's bad, but i don't think it deserves a life sentence. here's one of those athletes who takes college level courses, who wants to graduate. i think bobby collins made a big mistake, but he's already been suspended for several weeks. he's served his time. i think he deserves a second chance.
speaker2: like alvin mack? we gave him a second chance and since he's had 5 incompletes, 4 withdrawals and still reads at a fourth grade level. you're using his body to make money for the athletic department -- you, yourself, are making three times what the chancellor is -- but obviously no one is making an effort to see that this kid gets an education.
speaker5: he's helpin' to pay for your physics lab too. if you're willin' to go without a new office, maybe i could hold him out a few games. save his body.
speaker4: gentlemen...
speaker3: alvin was way behind in school when he got here. you can't make up for, in four years, what it took 18 to create.
speaker2: then he should never have been admitted in the first place. it's not fair to other students who worked hard to get here.
speaker6: is it fair to exclude kids who come from inferior schools? you hold everybody to the same standards, you're discriminating against the poor kids.
speaker5: most of my players are farm boys, inner-city kids. football is their deliverance.
speaker2: deliverance from what? a valid education?
speaker5: you throw bobby collins and alvin out, you take away their futures. in alvin's case you probably cost him a couple million dollars in the pros.
speaker2: but this is not a football vocational school. it's an institute of higher learning.
speaker5: yeh, but when was the last time 80,000 people showed up to watch a kid do a chemistry experiment?
speaker4: gentlemen, please, let's get back to the business at hand, bobby collins. as you know, i played football here. and i remember how hard it was to practice and then study when you're dead tired. so i have some sympathy for this young man. but i never cheated, so the real question is his character. since you know him better than anyone else in this room; and having talked to him and observed him over the last several weeks, do you feel he's learned his lesson? in other words, can you vouch for his character?
speaker5: yes, sir, i can.

speaker1: another case like this, i'll take it all the way up to the governor. 
speaker2: don't mess with me, learnihan. i'll have you teachin' study hall.

speaker1: you've got a phone call. a camille schaeffer. 
speaker1: she says she's your girlfriend
speaker2: i don't want to talk to her.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: yeh.

speaker1: hey, louanne, how ya' doin? 
speaker2: fine, bud, ya know. goin to j.c., hopin' to get back in here next year. just came by to give bobby some laundry i did for him.
speaker1: you two seein' each other again?
speaker2: yeh, he was even talking about us gettin' a place off campus together, until he got reinstated. i don't know how i woulda told my dad.
speaker1: ah, louanne... i wouldn't go in there right now.
speaker2: why not?
speaker2: ah. guess i'm pretty stupid when it comes to men. i never learn, do i?
speaker1: i think maybe men are just stupid when it comes to you. if you ever feel like, ya know, just talkin' sometime, gettin' a beer -- let me know. my schedule's pretty open.
speaker2: thanks, bud give him these, will ya?

speaker1: get up. i wanta talk to you. 
speaker1: don't sit up. stand up. if you can.
speaker1: what's the matter, joe? you won't shake hands with me. you don't want me to see your hand, do you? so i guess what i heard was true, huh? you been poundin' the walls with your passin' hand, right? i tell you what, joe, you want to hit somethin', hit me.
speaker1: i said hit me. i'm the one who put you in here. don't hit the wall. it ain't the wall's fault. hit me! go on, hit me right now!
speaker1: who else you wanta hit, huh? you're daddy maybe? cause he's a no-show prick? well, i'm a daddy, too, and not a very good one at that. so just hit me instead! i'll take your daddy's beatin' for him. go on, you want to. hit me, damnit!
speaker1: hit me! i'm not gonna leave you alone until you hit me. the guys'll thank you. they've always wanted to do it. so do it now, damnit! do it! joe sinks to his knees. winters stares down at him, then kneels also, his own anger and frustration draining away.
speaker1: o.k., joe, it's o.k. i guess i need it more than you do. you gotta quit beatin' up on yourself. let me see that hand.
speaker1: it's o.k. you can still throw with it, you mook. look, the nurses say this is the toughest time for you right now. i thought i'd stick around a little, case you wanta play some cards, pick a fight with the wall again, whatever...
speaker2: you don't have to.
speaker1: yes i do.

speaker1: hey, joe, don't you wanta watch the game? it's on cable. 
speaker2: no thanks.

speaker1: i know you, motherfucker. you're the who got my little sister pregnant. we ain't seen you around lately. where you been, huh? answer me, or i'm gonna peel your cap. 
speaker2: lattimer...
speaker2: oh, no...

speaker1: oh, boy, this does not look good, harmon. they're bringing the stretchers out... 
speaker2: oh, oh i'll kill that motherfucker. i'll... oh

speaker1: coach, you've lost two of your last four. 
speaker1: why do your teams seem to nose dive at the end of the last couple seasons?
speaker2: this was a tough loss, but this ain't any nose dive. we've had some key players out, but if we win next week, we'll still win the conference and go to a major bowl on new year's day. i mean, i know you guys can't write, but i thought you could at least count.

speaker1: you look good, alvin. 
speaker2: yeh, i feel o.k.
speaker1: any of the guys been down yet?
speaker2: they called.
speaker1: hell, you know how football players are about hospitals and injuries.
speaker2: yeh.
speaker2: i'm never gonna play again, am i?
speaker1: doctors aren't always right, alvin... but i just want you to know... you're the best defensive football player i ever coached.

speaker1: i know you had a difficult time. michigan is easy, right? bourbon is tough. 
speaker2: scotch.
speaker1: i got somethin' for ya. coupla round trip tickets. go see your dad. get it cleaned up.

speaker1: i'm gonna have to take a test with the coach right there. you sure you got somethin' better than blockers? 
speaker2: much better. this guy is foolproof. see ya saturday.

speaker1: i wanta do something different for this game. try to maximize our speed, but keep you both in the lineup at the same time. ray, i'm moving you to fullback. darnell, you're startin' at tail. 
speaker1: ray, you'll be carrying the ball less and blocking more, but they'll still have to respect your running and pass-catching ability. not everybody can make a transition like this. you think you can handle it?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: good. we can't afford any hang dogs.

speaker1: hello, camille. 
speaker2: hello, joe. you allright now?
speaker1: yeh... yeh, i think so.
speaker2: good, i'm happy for you.
speaker1: camille, hold on, o.k.? i'm sorry that i didn't want... that i couldn't see you.
speaker2: you couldn't even talk to me. what happened to "there's somethin' goin' on between you and me"?
speaker1: c'mon, camille, i was embarrassed. i couldn't...
speaker1: i couldn't understand why anybody would wanta talk to me. camille!

speaker1: how ya doin', dad? 
speaker2: joe! what's this? they throw you out?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: i heard about your little set-to. they had it on the news here.
speaker1: yeh, they sent me to rehab.
speaker3: we know what that's worth. your brother's been through it three times.
speaker3: so what are you doin' here?
speaker1: i've been thinking about some things, dad.
speaker3: that's what that rehab'll do. make you think about a lotta things you can't do nothing' about.
speaker1: i kinda been wonderin' why you never came to any of my games. all those years.
speaker3: oh, i don't know. i guess i didn't wanta make you nervous. you mighta tried too hard and screwed up.
speaker1: or i mighta done real well. which woulda been harder on you, dad?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker1: mighta made you feel bad. like maybe it wasn't written someplace that we all gotta go on our ass. like maybe you coulda done somethin' more, if you'de tried a little harder.
speaker3: or maybe i didn't wanta see you gettin' all excited, all pumped up with pride, when i knew one day it would all come crashin' down. just like it did.
speaker1: i think i spent the last couple years hopin' i'd die before that day. but you know what dad? that day came and i'm still here. and i got one more game this year. i don't know how well i'll play or even how much, but i want you there.
speaker3: how would you feel introducing your drunk dad to all your friends? you think about that?
speaker1: i could live with it, if you could. here's a ticket. section 2, row 6. fifty yard line. if you don't come, i'll never ask you again.
speaker3: o.k., joey. and good luck.

speaker1: hey, autumn. how's ray? 
speaker2: don't know. haven't seen him since the night i saw you. he'd been goin' out.
speaker1: monica lambert.
speaker2: you knew? why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: didn't wanta win you over that way.
speaker2: i just wondered how your studying was comin'. you ready for tomorrow?
speaker1: the test? i hope so. i been workin' pretty hard.
speaker2: good... i talked to my dad last night.
speaker1: oh, yeah? how's he doin?
speaker2: fine. we talked about you.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: i told him i'd gone out with you... i told him i wished i could still go bowling.

speaker1: he's rusty. i doubt if we can start him. 
speaker2: he's worse than that. he's outa shape. all right, that's enough for today. practice is cancelled. everybody off the field, but kane. c'mon what the are you standin' around lookin' at? get outa here. the players, surprised at this turn of events, begin to file off. even the coaches are baffled. winters walks over to joe, who has no idea what this is about.
speaker2: didn't do much while you were in there, did ya?
speaker3: well, we didn't exactly have a team...
speaker2: you could've worked out on your own.
speaker3: i had some other things to worry about...
speaker2: well, we're gonna make up for lost time. we'll start by hoppin' the steps.
speaker3: hoppin' the steps?! what, you're gonna punish me now.
speaker2: don't talk back to me, joe. i'll kick your ass. i went easy on you, 'cause you had to get through detox, but that's out to sea now. you let this team down; you let this program down. start those steps. right leg.

speaker1: 70 guys. 70 guys who busted their butts all year. because of you they might not win the conference. because of you they might not go to a bowl. 
speaker2: i didn't wanna leave... i just screwed up...
speaker1: you dogged on them.
speaker2: no, no i never dogged. i worked my off. i played hard...
speaker1: then you shoulda stayed in shape. keep runnin', dammit.
speaker2: i always played hard. i gave my everything for you. when you came to the center, i thought you were really worried about me. but you don't give a we're all just a buncha sled dogs. if you had another guy who could throw, you'da left me in the hospital. the only thing that matters is the program, the god-damn program.
speaker1: nobody forced you to play football, joe. not me, not the program, nobody. but when you sign on, you commit yourself to pay the price, to do whatever it takes. well, you haven't paid the price yet. you still owe this team. you owe this team big- time. get a shower.

speaker1: what's this doin? 
speaker2: takin' doped urine outa your bladder and puttin clean back in. call it an oil change.

speaker1: gotta get it done today, boys. gotta ring that bell. 60 minutes. 60 minutes of mean. no prisoners. no mercy. nothin' but snot bubbles. gotta ring that bell, gotta ring that championship bell. 
speaker2: ding dong!!
speaker3: 28 thunder right. on go.

speaker1: c'mon guys, we're only down ten. let's get our together. 
speaker2: you missed that block on purpose, didn't you,
speaker3: you're full of you fumble, you try to blame me.
speaker2: it's autumn isn't it? that's what this is all about.
speaker3: the with autumn. you just can't take a hit.
speaker4: don't tell me who started it. i don't care. all i care about is this football team. we win together. we lose together. so whatever your problem is, get over it. i don't want any more of this understand?
speaker5: yes, sir.
speaker4: as for the rest of you guys. here's what i think of the way you played.
speaker4: they're laughin' at you over there. makin' plans for the evening. they never dreamed it'd be this easy. you guys are nothin' but bugs splattered on their windshield. you better stock up on potato chips, 'cause you're gonna be watching a lotta t.v. on new years day.
speaker4: get warm, joe. you're startin' the second half.
speaker4: by the way... don't let me see you miss anymore blocks.

speaker1: joe's too tentative, too cautious out there. he seems flat. maybe we oughta give collins another shot. 
speaker2: joe just needs to get the feel back. he'll be allright.
speaker1: sam, we can't afford to wait...
speaker2: i said he'll be allright.

speaker1: 5:51 to go. georgia tech up 10 to nothing. the wolves are gonna have to find some offense in a hurry here. their defense has been keepin' them in it. 
speaker2: joe, i know that rehab was good for you. got rid of a lotta bad habits. but what about the rest of you? what happened to the joe kane that used to take command of this team, the joe kane these guys i'd run through a bulldozer for? they put him out with the trash? what are you waitin' for, somebody to feel sorry for you cause you've had some problems? nobody in this stadium gives a it's time to step up, joe. time to sit at the head of the table.

speaker1: all right, we've held these guys up long enough. give me time back here, and i'll rip 'em apart. 16 shift, green, bolt. first sound. 
speaker2: nice bit of scrambling by kane to get it to the four, but it's gonna bring up fourth and goal. no doubt about it, with 3:45 they've gotta go for it here, if they're gonna get back in this game.

speaker1: give it to me up the gut, coach. they've been ignoring me. i know i can score. 
speaker2: no, we're gonna go with the sweep.
speaker3: 28 thunder right. on 2.
speaker4: 
speaker4: monster block, man. monster block.

speaker1: field goal here ties it, but a tie may not get the wolves into a bowl. tough decision for winters. 
speaker2: you want me to send in the kicking team or you think you can handle it?
speaker3: give me the ball.
speaker2: o.k., let's do 24 inside slot, left blue lightning.

speaker1: looks like the timberwolves are back. probably brought the library with them. 
speaker2: hope so. give my sincere congratulations to coach winters.
speaker3: he'll be delighted.
speaker4: 15,10, touchdown!

speaker1: daddy, you remember darnell. 
speaker2: yes, i do. great catch, darnell.
speaker3: thank you, sir. i got somethin' for you.
speaker3: my entrance exam. got a 92. coach winters said you got an 87. he looked it up.
speaker2: i'll kill him.

speaker1: of a throw, joe. good to see you back. 
speaker1: and don't worry about the heisman. we'll gear up for it next year.

speaker1: you still feel like gettin' a beer? 
speaker1: he's not a football player any more. he's graduating this year.
speaker2: he's still got a bowl game.
speaker2: so make sure he doesn't violate curfew.

speaker1: what are you doin' here? 
speaker2: waitin' for you. i figured you'de have to come through here on your way to dinner.
speaker1: shouldn't you be out celebrating? you played real well.
speaker2: i need your help with somethin'. i know i'm not your favorite guy right now, but it's all startin' again. the expectations, the pressure, the talk about the heisman next year. i was wonderin' if you'de like to go somewhere, maybe share a six-pack with me?
speaker2: i miss you, camille. i don't like bein' without you.
speaker1: i'll think about it.

