speaker1: it may be so. this much is probable: the men who sent us on this journey have long since been moldering in forgotten graves; and those, if any, who read this message are a different breed. hopefully, a better one. he begins to roll up his left sleeve. 
speaker1: i leave the twentieth century without regret. who was it? marshall? ... said 'modern man is the missin 'a link between the ape and the human being.'
speaker1: one final thought -- nothing scientific, purely personal. seen from up here, everything looks different ... time bends and space is boundless. it squashes a man's ego. he begins to feel like no more than a mote in the eye of eternity. and he is nagged by a question: ahat if any- thing, will greet us on the end of man's first journey to a star? are we to believe that throughout these thousands of galaxies, these millions of stars, only one, that speck of solar dust we call earth, has been graced -- or cursed -- by human life? i have to doubt it.
speaker1: well then, earthmen: a missing link salutes you. bless you, my descendants.

speaker1: you all right? 
speaker2: he glances at the casket beside his own.
speaker3: stewart? stewart?

speaker1: dodge! read the atmosphere! 
speaker1: landon! send a last signal.
speaker2: what signal?
speaker1: to earth! that we've landed!

speaker1: it's breathable. 
speaker2: okay! blow the hatch before we lose auxilliary power.

speaker1: it's no use ... there she goes. 
speaker2: forget it. abandon ship.

speaker1: briny...twenty-five percent salinity. near the saturation point. 
speaker2: she's still sinking...

speaker1: gone. 
speaker2: we're here to stay.

speaker1: well? where are we? have any notion, skipper? 
speaker2: we're some three hundred and twenty light years from earth. on an unnamed planet in orbit around a star in the constellation of orion. that could be bellatrix.

speaker1: too red for bellatrix. 
speaker2: landon glances skeptically at taylor.
speaker3: you didn't have time to check the tapes, so you don't really know, do you? what went wrong? we weren't programmed to land in water.
speaker4: the question, landon, is not so much where we are as when we are.
speaker5: we've had a nice snooze. let's start earning all our back pay.

speaker1: take your soil test, dodge. i'll check the equipment. 
speaker1: got your sensors?
speaker2: yo!
speaker1: geiger counter?
speaker2: yo!
speaker1: one pistol... twenty-four rounds of ammo. two medical kits.. one camera... one tx9. we've enough food and water for three days.
speaker2: but how long is a day?
speaker1: good question. landon -- check your communications kit.
speaker1: landon! join the expedition.
speaker3: sorry... i was thinking of stewart. what d'you suppose happened?
speaker1: air leak. died in her sleep.
speaker3: you don't seem very cut up about it.
speaker1: it's a little late for a wake. she's been dead nearly a year.
speaker3: then we've been away from earth for eighteen months.
speaker1: by our time. you've turned gray.
speaker1: apart from that, you look pretty chipper for a man who's two thousand and thirty one years old. i read the clocks. they bear out hasslein's hypothesis. we've been away from earth for two thousand years, give or take a decade. still can't accept it, huh?
speaker1: because time has wiped out everyone and everything you cared for -- they're dust.
speaker3: prove it. if we can't get back, it's still just a theory.
speaker1: it's a fact, landon. buy it. you'll sleep better.
speaker2: nothing will grow here .... there's just a trace of hydrocarbons, and most of the nitrogen is locked into nitrates.
speaker1: any sign of dangerous ionization?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: which direction?
speaker1: that way.
speaker2: any particular reason?
speaker1: none at all.

speaker1: everybody all right? 
speaker1: water check.
speaker2: eight ounces.
speaker2: it doesn't add up. there's a mantle of dust around this planet and yet it's as humid as a jungle. thunder and lightning and yet no rain. cloud cover every night and that strange luminosity, and yet no moon.
speaker3: if only we could get a fix.
speaker1: what would you learn? i've told you where you are and when you are.
speaker2: taylor -- quit riding him.
speaker1: you're more than three hundred light years from your precious planet. your loved ones have been dead and forgotten for twenty centuries. even if you could get back, they'd think you were something that fell out of a tree.
speaker3: all right --
speaker1: there's only one reality left. we're here and it's now. you get ahold of that and hang on tight, or you might as well be dead.
speaker3: i'm prepared to die.
speaker1: he's prepared to die! doesn't that make you misty? chalk up another victory for the human spirit!
speaker1: straighten me out on something. why did you come along at all? you volunteered. why? i'll tell you. they nominated you for the big one and you couldn't turn it down. not without losing your all-american standing
speaker3: climb off me, will you!
speaker1: and the glory, don't forget that. there's a life-sized bronze statue of you somewhere. it's probably turned green by now, and nobody can read the name plate. but never let it be said we forget our heroes.
speaker3: taylor. i'm telling you --
speaker1: oh, and one last item. immortality. you wanted to go on forever. well, you near made it. except for dodge and me, you've lived longer than anybody. and with stewart dead, it looks like we're the last of the strain. you got what you wanted, kid. how does it taste?
speaker3: okay. you read me well enough.
speaker1: don't bother
speaker3: dodge ... he's not like me at all. but he makes sense. held walk naked into a live volcano if he thought he could learn something no other man knew. i understand why he's here. but you...you're no seeker. you're negative.
speaker1: but i'm not prepared to die.
speaker1: no, not quite, landon. i'm a bit of a seeker myself. but my dreams are a lot emptier than yours. i can't get rid of the idea that somewhere in the universe there must be a creature superior to man.

speaker1: life. 
speaker1: where there's one there's another. and another. and another.
speaker2: let's find them all.

speaker1: it's a stream bed., no doubt about it -- but bone dry. 
speaker2: look. . .

speaker1: scarecrows? 
speaker2: let's take a look.

speaker1: never mind the scarecrows. 
speaker2: agonized with thirst, they follow taylor.

speaker1: it's loaded with minerals, but safe. 
speaker2: can we take a dip?
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: as they arrive at opposite shore. 
speaker2: as he swims across.
speaker3: hey, taylor! look at this --

speaker1: my god..they look almost human. 
speaker2: they -- there's a herd of them.
speaker3: show them we're friendly.
speaker3: greetings!

speaker1: no cigar. 
speaker2: try telling them our names.
speaker1: well, if we're looking for an icebreaker... listen, folks .....
speaker3: i'm afraid they aren't having any.

speaker1: they didn't leave much did they? 
speaker2: shall we follow them?
speaker3: haven't much choice.

speaker1: well, at least they haven't tried to bite us. 
speaker2: blessed are the vegetarians.

speaker1: landon looks o.s. at the primitives. 
speaker2: we got off at the wrong stop.
speaker3: you're our optimist look at the bright side. if that's the best there is around here, in six months we'll be running this planet.
speaker4: look...

speaker1: smile. 
speaker2: he faints.

speaker1: which one was wearing the strange clothes? 
speaker2: him.
speaker1: will he live?
speaker2: there's no probe here. find one!
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker1: this place is dirty, doctor.
speaker2: these animals are dirty, doctor. they stink, and they carry communicable diseases. why aren't they cleaned up before they're brought here?
speaker4: you don't sound happy in your work.
speaker5: you promised to speak to dr. zaius about me.

speaker1: but the quota system's been abolished! you made it. why can't i? 
speaker2: what do you mean, made it? i'm an animal psychologist, that's all. we don't have any authority.
speaker1: you do pretty well when it comes to getting space and equipment.
speaker2: that's because dr. zaius realizes our work has value.
speaker1: hmph.
speaker2: the foundations of scientific brain surgery are being laid right here - in studies of cerebral function in these animals.
speaker1: they're still dirty. and their bite is septic. look at that ...
speaker1: hold his head.

speaker1: hey! hey! 
speaker2: simmer down! you especially.
speaker2: better give it a try, stupid. unless you like going hungry.
speaker2: good morning, dr. zira.
speaker3: good morning, julius. how's our patient today?
speaker2: no change. the minute you open the door, he goes into his act.
speaker3: do we want some sugar, old-timer?
speaker2: you could get hurt doing that, doctor.
speaker3: don't be silly. he's perfectly tame.
speaker2: they're all tame until they take a chunk out of you.

speaker1: well, bright eyes, is our throat feeling better? 
speaker2: listen, listen -- i can speak -- he winces, puts his hand to the bandage.
speaker1: awww, it still hurts, doesn't it?
speaker3: see? he keeps pretending he can talk.
speaker2: i'm not pretending! i can talk!
speaker1: did you see that? it's remarkable!
speaker3: huh?
speaker1: he's trying to form words.
speaker3: well, you know what they say. human see, human do.
speaker3: now what?
speaker1: he seems to want something.
speaker3: i'd be careful, doctor.
speaker3: what did i tell you! try that again, i'll break your arm!
speaker4: his face is twisted in frustration.
speaker2: what's the matter with you? i can talk! can't you see that?
speaker5: good morning, your excellency.

speaker1: bright eyes, show him! go ahead! do your trick! 
speaker1: speak! go on. speak again.
speaker2: my - name - isn't - bright eyes it's taylor!
speaker1: there! can you believe it? i looks like he's talking.
speaker3: yes, amusing. a man who acts like an ape.
speaker2: i'm not acting! i can talk! how much proof do you want?
speaker1: dr. zaius, i could have sworn he was answering you!
speaker3: he shows a definite gift for mimicry.
speaker1: i wonder how held score on a hopkins manual dexterity test?
speaker3: an animal?
speaker4: look!
speaker1: he's moving his fingers!
speaker3: of course. he saw you moving yours.
speaker1: but perhaps he understood --

speaker1: man has no understanding, dr. zira. he can be taught a few simple tricks. nothing more. 
speaker2: i beg to disagree. according to my exper- iments --

speaker1: is this the one you wanted, doctor? 
speaker2: yes, thank you. bright eyes?
speaker2: i've got a present for you.

speaker1: do you have to work tonight? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: neither do i.
speaker3: he drifts toward the fence, nova behind him.

speaker1: that's bright eyes. the one i was telling you about. 
speaker2: what's so special about him?
speaker1: watch. hello, bright eyes. how's our throat today?
speaker1: look -- she remembers.
speaker2: remembers what?
speaker1: the blood transfusion.
speaker2: zira, come on. you know they can't -- oh oh. here comes number one.

speaker1: something's bothering him. he's been prying around the lab for the last two days ... 
speaker1: good morning, dr. zaius. you know dr. cornelius, my fiance.
speaker2: oh, yes -- the young ape with a shovel. i hear you're planning another archeological expedition.

speaker1: yes, sir. if the academy agrees. 
speaker2: the project will require my support, of course.

speaker1: i hope i can count on it, sir. 
speaker2: a friendly warning, cornelius -- when you're digging for artifacts, don't bury your reputation.
speaker3: guards!

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: those fools and their torches! do you have any ointment?
speaker1: i'll see.

speaker1: get me a collar and leash. i'm taking him to the infirmary. 
speaker2: he's vicious, doctor. besides, it's against the rules.
speaker1: do as i say.
speaker1: you wouldn't hurt me, would you... taylor?

speaker1: it's a stunt. humans don't write. 
speaker2: dear, you're a scientist. don't you believe your own eyes?
speaker1: where did you learn to do this?

speaker1: jefferson public school, fort wayne, indiana? 
speaker2: 'and you're a fool'.
speaker1: now, just a minute --
speaker2: oh, cornelius, be quiet.
speaker2: 'dodge was killed in the hunt. what happened to landon?' i don't know.
speaker1: and they fell out of the sky with you?
speaker2: 'not fell -- flew!'
speaker1: flight is a scientific impossibility.
speaker2: and even if it weren't, why fly? where would it get you?
speaker1: well, now...
speaker2: 'do you have maps?'

speaker1: we are here ... you were captured about here. 
speaker1: out - of - the - question!.
speaker2: cornelius, why do you insist on provoking him?
speaker1: no creature can survive in that part of the forbidden zone. i've been there. i've seen it.

speaker1: 'then how do you account for me?, 
speaker2: i don't. and i'm not going to try.
speaker1: but what about your theory? the existence of someone like taylor might prove it.
speaker2: zira, are you trying to get my head cut off?
speaker1: don't be foolish. if it's true, they'll have to accept it.
speaker2: no, they won't -
speaker1: cornelius has developed a brilliant hypothesis -
speaker2: it's probably wrong --
speaker1: -- that the ape evolved from a lower order of primate, possibly man. in his trip to the forbidden zone he discovered traces of a culture older than recorded time -
speaker2: the evidence was very meager --
speaker1: you didn't think so then.
speaker2: that was before dr. zaius and half the academy said the idea was heresy.
speaker1: how can scientific truth be heresy? what if taylor is exactly the proof you needed? a mutation. a missing link between the unevolved primate and the ape -
speaker2: he's touchy, isn't he?
speaker1: 'i am not a missing link.'
speaker2: because if he is a missing link, it means the sacred scrolls aren't worth their parchment.
speaker1: well, maybe they're not.
speaker2: no, thank you'. i won't get into that battle.
speaker1: oh, cornelius, show some strength!
speaker2: zira, listen to me. we've got a fine future ahead of us. marriage. stimulating careers. i'm up for a raise --

speaker1: dr. zaius -- 
speaker2: did you forget our appointment, cornelius?
speaker1: oh., no., sir. i was just assembling my notes.
speaker2: you know dr. maximus, our commissioner for animal affairs?
speaker1: certainly, sir. it's a pleasure to see you again.
speaker3: what is that?
speaker4: a man, dr. maximus.
speaker3: i know it's a man. and you know the rules. no animals outside the compound, and most certainly not without a leash.

speaker1: yes, sir. but this -- creature is a special case. 
speaker2: why special?
speaker1: we're -- conducting a new experiment.
speaker3: wouldn't it more properly be done in your office?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: guards?
speaker2: return this beast to the compound.

speaker1: a toy. it floats on the air. try it. 
speaker2: zira....
speaker3: nonsense.

speaker1: how come? the beast's throat is nearly healed. 
speaker2: it's not his throat this time. the vet's going to geld him.

speaker1: dr. zira won't like it. she wants this pair to mate. 
speaker2: these orders came from dr. zaius himself. there's nothing she can do about it.

speaker1: weep if you must, but make an end of sorrow. he lives again. yes, he has found peace in heaven. 
speaker2: crouching, listening, wide-eyed.
speaker3: he was a model for us all, a gorilla to remember; hunter, warrior, defender of the faith.

speaker1: the dear departed once said to me: 'i never met an ape i didn't like'... 
speaker2: look!. it's a man!
speaker3: in heaven's name ... get rid of that creature.

speaker1: there he is: they move toward taylor. 
speaker2: he runs out onto the mall.

speaker1: they do a slow take. 
speaker2: you see what i saw?
speaker3: must've escaped from the zoo.

speaker1: security police. 
speaker2: i'm in charge of this man.
speaker1: no longer, madame. he is now in the custody of the ministry of science.
speaker3: he speaks at last, his voice hoarse but audible.
speaker4: get away from me, you dirty ape!

speaker1: ...and that's when i decided to take up astronautical engineering., you see. i was halfway through college and i... it's an old trick! the silent treatment. four weeks and three days, and not a word from anyone. not zira.,or cornelius...or that julius. no one'll listen... only you. you...nova. no-vah. 
speaker1: yeah...me tarzan, you jane. that's all right ... i had a puppy once that never barked. he just licked my hand. he's dead now. they're all dead. everything... i think maybe they'll kill me, too. are they afraid of me? i can't hurt them... but i threaten them somehow. threaten their faith in simian superiority. yeah ... you're right. they'll have to kill me.

speaker1: let her alone! 
speaker1: where are you taking her? what are you going to do?
speaker1: why are you doing this? say something, you hairy scum!
speaker2: turn it off!
speaker1: answer me!
speaker2: shut up! the reason no one'll talk to you is because you're a freak!
speaker1: where's dr. zira? why--?
speaker2: i said shut up!
speaker1: ape! apes wearing clothes! it's a madhouse! a madhouse!

speaker1: now i don't even have you. imagine me -- needing someone. back on earth there was nobody. women, yes. lots of them. love making ithout love. that's the kind of world it was turning into, with the help of cynics like myself. so i left it -- because there was no one dear enough to keep me there. did i tell you about stewart? there was a lovely girl. the most precious cargo we brought along. if human life could survive here, she was to be the new eve. it's probably just as well she didn't live to see this. 
speaker1: i wonder if it's love between us. what a place to find it.

speaker1: where have you been? why didn't you come to see me? 
speaker2: shhhh!
speaker1: what is this?
speaker2: a hearing.
speaker3: be clever. be quiet,
speaker4: all rise!
speaker4: be seated.
speaker5: this ad hoc tribunal of the national academy is now in session. president of the academy presiding. on my right, dr. maximus, commissioner for animal affairs. on my left, dr. zaius, minister of science and chief defender of the faith... appearing for the state, dr. honorius, deputy minister of justice.
speaker5: let it be clear at the outset that all matters pertaining to this inquiry are confidential, and anyone discussing them outside this chamber will be held in contempt of the tribunal. you may proceed, dr. honorius.
speaker6: you asked for the opportunity to present your case. surely you must know why you're here.
speaker2: my own purpose is to save this exceptional creature from mutilation.
speaker6: and our purpose is to settle custodial and jurisdictional questions concerning this beast, and determine what's to be done with him.
speaker2: at the very least, this man has the right to know whether there's a charge against him.
speaker7: objection. the accused is indeed a man. therefore, he has no rights under ape law.
speaker5: well, dr. zira? this is a man, is he not?

speaker1: he is unlike any man you have ever seen - as we hope to prove. 
speaker2: answer the question. is he a man?
speaker3: sir? the question is the point at issue: is he a man? or a deviate? or a freak of nature?
speaker4: objection!
speaker5: as the prosecutor continues:
speaker6: sustained. in all fairness, dr. zira, you must admit the accused is a nonape, and therefore has no rights under ape law.
speaker1: then why is he called the accused your honors must think him guilty of something.
speaker7: this man is not being tried. he is being disposed of. it is scientific heresy that is actually on trial here.
speaker8: well put, dr. zaius. let us warn our friends that they endanger their own careers by defending this animal.

speaker1: dr. zira -- tell bright eyes to sit down. 
speaker2: my name is taylor.
speaker1: it says here that his name is bright eyes. you gave him that name yourself.
speaker2: this hearing is absurd! let me tell my story...
speaker1: bailiff! make the animal be quiet.
speaker1: state your case, mr. prosecutor.
speaker3: learned judges: my case is simple. it is based on our first article of faith: that the almighty created the ape in his own image; that he gave him a soul and a mind; that he set him apart from the beasts of the jungle, and made him the lord of the planet.

speaker1: these sacred truths are self-evident. the proper study of apes is apes. but certain young cynics have chosen to study man - yes, perverted scientists who advance on insidious theory called 'evolution.' 
speaker2: as the prosecutor continues:
speaker3: there is a conspiracy afoot to undermine the very cornerstone of our faith
speaker4: come to the point, dr. honorius.
speaker3: directly, mr. president. this wretched man, the accused, is only a in the conspiracy. we know that he was wounded in the throat at the time of his capture. the state charges that dr. zira and a corrupt surgeon named galen experimented on this wounded animal, tampering with his brain and throat tissues to create a speaking monster ...
speaker5: thatã•s a lie!
speaker4: mind your tongue, madame.
speaker5: did we create his mind too? not only can this man speak. he can write. he can reason.
speaker3: he can reason? with the tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
speaker4: proceed. but don't turn this hearing into a farce.
speaker3: tell the court, bright eyes -- what is the second article of faith?
speaker6: i admit, i know nothing of your culture.
speaker3: of course he doesn't know our culture - because he cannot think. tell us why all apes are created equal.
speaker6: some apes, it seems, are more equal than others.
speaker3: ridiculous. that answer is a contradiction in terms. tell us, bright eyes, why do men have no souls? what is the proof that a divine spark exists in the simian brain?
speaker6: show this to the president.
speaker5: since the defendant is forbidden to speak in his own defense, he asks that this statement be read into the record.
speaker4: read it yourself.
speaker5: 'i have come to you from a planet in a different solar system. i am an explorer in space, with no hostile intentions against your civilization. on my planet it was the primate man who evolved into a thinking animal, while the apes remained..."
speaker4: this is a joke in very poor taste.
speaker5: is it a joke to seek the truth about this man?
speaker7: dr. zira -- you state here that a ship from outer space sank in an inland sea of our eastern desert.
speaker5: i do not state it, sir. the prisoner does.
speaker7: do you believe him?
speaker5: like you, i find it difficult.
speaker7: but how convenient that the proof of his arrival has vanished? you also state that bright eyes had two intelligent companions at the time of his capture.
speaker5: this is his assertion.
speaker7: where are they now?
speaker6: one is in a museum!
speaker4: dr. zira! silence that man!
speaker7: how sad. stuffed and mounted, eh? dead men, like sunken ships, can tell no stories. and his other companion?
speaker5: he doesn't know.
speaker7: mr. president, i believe the prosecutor has reassembled all he surviving humans captured in the hunt along with bright eyes.
speaker3: that's true, dr. zaius. my witnesses -- correction -- my exhibits are on display in the amphitheater.
speaker4: very well. i suggest we go and look at them.

speaker1: it's him...landon. 
speaker2: which one?
speaker1: second from the left.
speaker3: zaius glances at the accused.
speaker4: well...do you acknowledge kinship with any of these creatures?
speaker1: with one of them.
speaker4: identify him, then. speak to him.
speaker1: landon?
speaker5: stunned by landon's imbecility.
speaker1: john ... it's me, taylor.
speaker6: as taylor whirls on zira.
speaker1: you! ... you knew about this?
speaker2: no, i swear -- i never saw this man before.
speaker1: you did this to him! you've removed his frontal lobes!
speaker7: silence! bailiff, take the prisoner inside!

speaker1: you destroyed his memory! his mind! his identity! and, you want to do the same to me! 
speaker2: bailiff! stop this outburst! gag that monstrosity!
speaker1: you barbarians!
speaker3: may it please the tribunal: i for one grant that this being cannot have come from another planet. but this much is certain -- he comes from somewhere in the forbidden zone. he has described the region to us, and described it accurately, for i have been there.
speaker2: you visited the forbidden zone?
speaker3: why, yes, sir. a year ago. with the special permission of the academy.
speaker4: he exceeded his orders. his travel permit was promptly revoked.
speaker3: yes, sir, so it was -- thanks to you. but not before i discovered evidence of a simian culture that existed long before the sacred scrolls were written ...

speaker1: sustained. your archeological theories have no bearing on the disposition of this creature. 
speaker2: let them talk, mr president. let them talk.
speaker3: sirs: our theories have a bearing on his identity.
speaker1: how so?
speaker3: let us assume, as common sense dictates, that the prisoner's story is false. but if he does not come from another planet, then surely he sprang from our own. yes, sprang. as an animal psychologist, i have found no physiological defect to explain why humans are mute.
speaker4: objection!
speaker1: sustained.
speaker3: their speech organs are adequate. the flaw lies not in anatomy but in the brain.
speaker4: objection!
speaker1: sustained.
speaker5: yes! behold this marvel, this living paradox, this missing link in an evolutionary chain!
speaker1: silence! you have gone too far.
speaker2: there you are, mr. president. i warned you these two would use this hearing as a forum for subversion.
speaker6: you were right! the advocates of heresy have revealed themselves.
speaker2: mr. president, i think an indictment is in order.
speaker1: be it so ordered. the tribunal will examine all the evidence presented here and in due time render a verdict on the proposed indictment and on the disposition of the deviate in question. this hearing is adjourned.

speaker1: the two agents push taylor through the doorway. 
speaker2: wait outside.
speaker2: the verdict is in. at the moment your simian friends -- and sponsors -- are free on bail. but they'll soon be brought to trial for heresy.

speaker1: what about me? 
speaker2: oh, your case was preordained. in a way, you performed a service for the state ... because your hearing made it possible for us to expose zira and cornelius. and now the tribunal has placed you in my custody for...final disposition. do you know what that means?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: emasculation, to begin with. then experimental surgery. on the speech centers. on the brain. ultimately, a kind of living death.
speaker2: however, it's within my power to grant you a reprieve. that is why i summoned you here tonight. tell me who and what you really are and where you come from, and no veterinary will touch you.
speaker1: i told the truth at that 'hearing'of yours.
speaker2: you lied. where is your tribe?
speaker1: my tribe, as you call it, lives on another planet in a distant solar system.
speaker2: then how is it we speak the same language? even in your lies, some truth slips through! that mythical community you're supposed to come from -- fort wayne'?
speaker1: what about it?
speaker2: a fort! unconsciously, you chose a name that was belligerent. where were you nurtured?
speaker1: i take it you don't believe the prosecutor's charge -- that i'm a monster created by dr. zira.
speaker2: certainly not. you're a mutant.
speaker1: that's exactly what zira and cornelius claim. you're talking heresy, doctor.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: all right, suppose i am a mutant? why does the appearance of one mutant send you into a panic?
speaker2: because you're not unique. there was the one you call landon --
speaker1: then you admit --
speaker2: i admit that where there's one mutant there's probably another. and another. a nest of them. where's your nest, taylor? where are your women?
speaker1: thank you for calling me taylor. dr. zaius, i know who i am. who are you? how did this upside down civilization ever get started?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: if you are protecting others of your kind, it will cost you your identity.
speaker1: i'm not protecting anybody! that hearing was a farce. what have i done?
speaker2: you're a menace! a walking pestilence. i do know who you are, taylor. as i know that others of your kind must live in the forbidden zone. you have just six hours to make a full confession. after that i'll employ surgery to obtain one. guards!
speaker2: take this creature back to his cage.
speaker1: all right, you can cut me to pieces. it's within your power. but know this, doctor. you do it because you're afraid of me. you do it from fear!

speaker1: are you julius? 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i'm from the office of animal affairs. this male's to be transferred to the zoo.
speaker2: at this hour? who says so?
speaker1: don't they tell you anything? the anti-
speaker2: stop making speeches and show me the order.
speaker2: this order's no good. it must be counter- signed by dr. zaius --
speaker1: hit him!
speaker3: who are you?
speaker1: so you can talk. i'm dr. zira's nephew. this abduction was her idea. you're not really going to the zoo. that's just our cover story in case we're stopped. although i do feel that if it ever came down to a question of whether something like you should be public or private property --
speaker3: come on. get me out of here.

speaker1: we've got to move fast. 
speaker2: as taylor leaves his cage.
speaker3: she comes along too.
speaker4: zira doesn't want your female.
speaker3: i want her.
speaker4: if you insist. but i'm not taking any orders --
speaker3: fine. just let her out.

speaker1: i told you not to bring the other one. 
speaker2: he wouldn't leave her.
speaker1: all right... get in...hurry. put this on.
speaker3: listen-
speaker1: taylor -- just keep quiet and we may get away with this. remember that men all look alike to most apes.

speaker1: gorilla hunters ... 
speaker2: keep moving. we can't turn back now.

speaker1: hold it! 
speaker1: ah, doctor zira! our wagon broke down! i'm afraid we'll have to commandeer yours.

speaker1: you can't! i've two sick humans in the cage. we're taking them to the chief vet at the zoo ... 
speaker2: we bagged two live ones today. i'll have to ask you to take them along.

speaker1: give him a taste of fire! 
speaker2: stand back! he's dangerous!
speaker1: why?
speaker3: he's rabid! his bite is fatal!
speaker1: you serious?
speaker2: you would die in agony! frothing at the mouth!
speaker1: they treat those animals better than they treat us.
speaker4: i still say the only good human is a dead human.

speaker1: how did it go? 
speaker2: there was one bad moment -- some hunters stopped us.
speaker3: i pursuaded them our beasts had rabies.

speaker1: well, taylor -- we're all fugitives now. 
speaker2: do you have any weapons?
speaker1: the best. but we won't need them.
speaker2: just the same, i want one.
speaker1: look here, taylor. i'm in charge of this expedition --
speaker2: fair enough. but you're no longer in charge of me. and i don't mean to be captured again.
speaker1: as you wish.
speaker2: zaius seems to think there might be another jungle beyond the forbidden zone. that's what we'll try for. what about you?
speaker3: cornelius and i have been indicted for heresy. unless we can prove our theories, we don't stand a chance of acquittal.
speaker2: you're going back to the forbidden zone?
speaker1: to the diggings i worked at a year ago. it's a three day ride across the eastern desert, near where you claim you landed from that planet of yours.
speaker2: you still don't believe me, do you?
speaker2: nothing much. the remnants of a life raft. maybe a small flag. the emblem of my countrymen.
speaker1: sorry, taylor. the terrain around that lake is poisonous. there is no fresh water, no vegetation. nothing.
speaker2: i know ... nevertheless, i thank you for saving us. you'll be in trouble for going there.

speaker1: that's the way home. and she knows it. 
speaker1: nova! we can't stay there. it's not safe.
speaker2: we'd better get started. if the mounted police pick up our trail, they'll come this far at least.
speaker3: right. let's put the water and provisions in the wagon.
speaker2: are you going to take her with you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: actually, you're a different breed. this creature will never evolve.
speaker1: maybe not.
speaker2: you want her that much?

speaker1: who put them up? 
speaker2: the hunt club.
speaker1: to scare off humans?
speaker3: to scare us, too. we're entering the forbidden zone.

speaker1: don't worry. you'll be safe with me. here. it's time you learned to earn your keep. 
speaker1: you can do it. like this ...

speaker1: zira wanders off, falls to her knees. 
speaker2: something's wrong with your mate.

speaker1: where does the river lead? 
speaker2: it empties into a sea some miles from here. that's where the cave is.

speaker1: don't know. at high tide you can't ride along the shore, and we had no boats on the last expedition. 
speaker2: you've never told me why this region's called the forbidden zone.
speaker1: no one really knows. it's an ancient taboo. set forth in the sacred scrolls. the lawgiver pronounced the area deadly.
speaker3: shouldn't we be moving on?
speaker2: i'm for that.

speaker1: what's the diagnosis, doctor? a touch of the sun? 
speaker2: she's not sick at all. she's pregnant.

speaker1: you like it? lucius and cornelius come up, zira with them. 
speaker2: why did you do that? scrape off your hair?
speaker1: in my world -- before i left it - only youngsters of your age wore un- scraped hair.
speaker3: it makes you look somehow ... less intelligent.
speaker1: when are you going to show me what's in the cave?
speaker3: right now, if you like.

speaker1: lucius -- don't fire at them. 
speaker2: you're all under arrest! you seditious scoundrel. drop that rifle.

speaker1: stop right there. 
speaker2: don't be a fool. you're outnumbered and outgunned.
speaker1: if there's any shooting, dr. zaius, you'll be the first to die. depend on it.
speaker3: taylor, you're not in command here. put down that gun.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker2: very well. lower your weapons.

speaker1: how did you know we'd come here? 
speaker2: it wasn't difficult. only an apostate or a lunatic would flee to the forbidden zone. i see you brought along the female of your species. i didn't realize a man could be monogamous.
speaker3: on this planet -- it's easy.
speaker1: we've never meant to be treasonable, sir. but up there, in the face of that cliff, is a vast cave -- and in that cave a fabulous treasure of fossils and artifacts.
speaker2: i've seen some of your fossils and artifacts. they're worthless.
speaker3: and that's your minister of science. honor- bound to expand the frontiers of knowledge.
speaker4: taylor, please --
speaker3: except that he's also the chief defender of the faith.
speaker2: there is no contradiction between faith and science. true science.
speaker3: all right, let's see if you're willing to put that statement to a test.
speaker1: taylor, i'd rather you -
speaker3: no. you saved me from this fanatic. maybe i can pay you back.
speaker2: what is your proposal?
speaker3: when were the sacred scrolls written?
speaker2: twelve hundred years ago.
speaker3: very well. if zira and cornelius can prove that those scrolls don't tell the whole truth of your history; if they can show you definite evidence of another culture from an unrecorded past -- will you exonerate them?
speaker2: of course.
speaker3: okay.up to the cave.
speaker3: sorry, lucius. you'll have to stay here and guard the horses.
speaker5: always giving orders. just like every other adult.
speaker3: relax. you'll see it all later.

speaker1: present your evidence, cornelius. 
speaker2: but the artifacts lying at your feet were found here, at this level. and that's the paradox. the more ancient culture is the more advanced. admittedly, many of these objects are unidentified, but clearly they were fashioned by beings with a knowledge of metallurgy.
speaker2: indeed, the very fact that these tools are unknown to us could suggest a culture in certain ways almost equal to our own. some of the evidence is uncontestable ...
speaker1: don't speak to me in absolutes. the evidence is contestable.
speaker2: i apologize.
speaker1: to begin with, your methods of dating
speaker3: perhaps that's why they're on your staff.
speaker1: secondly, if these 'tools' as you call them, are unidentified, why are they introduced as 'evidence' of anything?
speaker4: but there's the doll, sir.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: right there. the human doll.

speaker1: taylor! tell him. 
speaker2: he has a point. on my planet children often play with ape dolls.
speaker3: cornelius tries again.
speaker4: a doll alone proves nothing. true. but the doll was found beside the jawbone of a man -- and no trace of simian fossils has turned up in this deposit.
speaker5: your conclusion is premature. have you forgotten your scripture? the thirteenth scroll? 'and proteus brought the upright beast into the garden, and chained him to a tree, and the children made sport of him.'
speaker4: no sir, i haven't forgotten.
speaker5: well? for a time the ancients kept humans as household pets. until the lawgiver proved that man could not be tamed. keep digging cornelius. you'll find evidence of the master of this house: an ape.
speaker1: are you going to let that pass without an answer?
speaker2: yes. i have to agree. from all you've found so far, his position's as good as yours.
speaker4: what are you doing there?
speaker2: reconstructing a life. care to have a look?

speaker1: these were found near the human doll, right? well, whoever owned them was in pretty bad shape. 
speaker1: defective eyesight..
speaker1: he wore false teeth. he suffered from a hernia and used this truss to hold up his insides ... and toward the end, these little rings of stainless steel enclosed a prefab- ricated valve in his failing heart.
speaker1: i don't say he was a man like an earthman, but i'd call him a close relative, for he was plagued by most of man's ills. yet, fragile as he was, he came before you -- and was superior to you.
speaker2: that's lunacy. i can give an alternate description for everyone of those objects that's equally as inventive as yours. but it would be conjecture, not proof.

speaker1: mamma! mamma! mamma!. 
speaker2: dr. zaius! would an ape make a human doll that talks?
speaker3: lucius....

speaker1: tell him to pull back! 
speaker2: cease fire! withdraw!

speaker1: they took me by surprise. sneaked up on me while i was watering the horses. what's happened to honor? i got off one round to warn you. 
speaker2: they've taken everything.
speaker3: not everything. they left a hostage. how do you feel, lucius?
speaker1: disillusioned... but vindicated! i've been right all along. you can't trust the older generation. it's a matter of values --
speaker3: all right, all right. will you do me a favor? no orders.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: i want you to go around the bend and tell those gorillas their leader is my prisoner.
speaker1: yes, i can do that.

speaker1: what if they won't agree to your terms? 
speaker2: then tell them dr. zaius won't leave here alive.
speaker3: taylor, you can't.
speaker2: sit down. over there.
speaker3: taylor, please -- don't treat him that way.
speaker2: why not?
speaker3: it's humiliating.
speaker2: wasn't i humiliated? by all of you? didn't you lead me around on a leash?
speaker4: that was different. we thought you were .... inferior.
speaker2: and now you know the truth. cornelius has beaten you, doctor. he proved it. man preceded you here. you owe him your science, your language, whatever knowledge you have.
speaker5: then answer this: if ran was superior, why didn't he survive?
speaker2: he might have been wiped out by a plague. natural catastrophe. like a fiery storm of meteors. from the looks of this part of your planet, i'd say that was a fair bet.
speaker6: but we can't be sure.
speaker2: he is. he knew all the time. long before your discovery, he knew. defender of the faith. guardian of the terrible secret. isn't that right, doctor?

speaker1: as zira and cornelius look at him expectantly. 
speaker2: what i know of man was written long ago -- set down by the wisest ape of all -- our lawgiver. open my breast pocket.
speaker2: read it to him: the twentythird scroll, ninth verse.
speaker3: 'beware the beast man, for he is the devil's pawn. alone among primates, he kills for sport, or or greed. yes, he will murder his brother to possess his brother's land. let him not breed in great numbers, for he will make a desert of his home and yours. shun him. drive him back into his jungle lair: for he is the harbinger of death'.
speaker2: i found nothing in the cave to alter that conception of man. and i still live by its injunction.

speaker1: stay where you are! 
speaker2: they think you're behaving foolishly. i must say i agree. where will you go?
speaker1: i'll start by following the shoreline. and my nose.
speaker3: but suppose you find nothing but a wasteland. how will you survive?
speaker4: he won't survive. do you know what sort of life awaits you out there, taylor? that of an animal. if you aren't eventually hunted down and killed by apes, some jungle beast will devour you.
speaker1: then there is another jungle?
speaker4: of course, you could return with us. our society might find a place for you and your mate.
speaker1: sure. in a cage.
speaker4: where else, but in a cage, does man belong?
speaker1: no, thanks. i'll take freedom.
speaker1: would you like to come along?
speaker3: we can't.
speaker1: it's better than going to prison for heresy.
speaker5: they can't convict us of that. you proved our innocence. besides... ... his culture is our culture.
speaker1: good luck then.
speaker1: dr. zira, i'd like to kiss you good-bye.
speaker3: all right, but.... ...you're so ugly!
speaker3: go with taylor. that's an old expression. it comes from both ape and man.
speaker1: bless you.
speaker1: lucius.
speaker2: i think you're making a mistake.
speaker1: that's the boy. keep 'em flying.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the flags of discontent. it's the only way anything ever gets changed. don't try to follow us. i'm pretty handy with things like this.
speaker4: of that i'm sure. all my life i've awaited your coming and dreaded it. like death itself.
speaker1: why? from the first, i've terrified you, doctor. and in spite of every sign that i'm an intelligent being who means no harm, you continue to hate and fear me. why?
speaker4: because you are a man. and you were right -- i have always known about man. from the evidence, i believe his wisdom must walk hand in hand with his idiocy. his emotions must rule his brain. he must be a warlike animal who gives battle to everything around him -- even himself.
speaker1: what evidence? no weapons were found in the cave.
speaker4: the forbidden zone was once a paradise. your breed made a desert of it, ages ago.
speaker1: we're back at the beginning. i still don't know the why. a planet where apes evolved from men. a world turned wrong side up. a puzzle with one piece missing.
speaker4: don't look for it, taylor. you may not like what you find.

speaker1: untie me! 
speaker1: no, no! let him go!

speaker1: fetch your explosives. we're going to seal the cave. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: seal the cave?
speaker1: that's correct. and you will both stand trial for heresy.
speaker4: but the proof? the doll?
speaker1: in a few minutes there will be no doll. there can't be. i'm sorry. cornelius throws himself at zaius.
speaker3: you mustn't! you gave your 'word!
speaker1: what i do, i do with no pleasure. silence him.
speaker5: dr. zaius, this is inexcusable! why must knowledge stand still? what about the future? zaius looks benevolently at julius.
speaker1: i may just have saved it for you.
speaker5: what will he find out there, doctor?
speaker6: his face is a mask, his tone enigmatic.
speaker1: his destiny.

speaker1: he smiles at her hopefully. 
speaker2: yes, nova -- i see it. in my old profession green meant safe. green meant go.

