speaker1: i been thinkin' about buyin' me one. 
speaker2: bull. you ain't got money for dinner, let alone buy no car.
speaker1: now i got enough money for cokes, and since it don't look like you're gonna invite me inside--
speaker2: you'd steal the dining room table if i did.
speaker1: come to town with me, then. how'd that be?
speaker2: goin' to work anyway.

speaker1: goin' to work, huh? what do you do? 
speaker2: none of your business.
speaker1: i bet you're a...movie star! no...a lady mechanic?...no...a maid?--
speaker2: what do you think i am?

speaker1: a waitress. 
speaker2: what line of work are you in? when you're not stealin' cars?
speaker1: i tell you, i'm lookin' for suitable employment right at the moment.
speaker2: what did you do before?
speaker1: i was in state prison.
speaker2: state prison?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: guess some little old lady wasn't so nice.
speaker1: it was armed robbery.
speaker2: my, my, the things that turn up in the driveway these days.

speaker1: what do y'all do for a good time around here, listen to the grass grow? 
speaker2: guess you had a lot more fun up at state prison, huh?
speaker1: see this foot? i chopped two toes off of it. with an axe.
speaker2: what? why?
speaker1: to get off the work detail, that's why. want to see?
speaker2: no!... i surely don't intend to stand here and look at your dirty feet in the middle of main street.
speaker2: boy, did you really do that?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you must be crazy.

speaker1: what's it like? 
speaker2: prison?
speaker1: no, armed robbery.
speaker2: it's...i don't know...it isn't like anything.
speaker1: hah! i knew you never robbed bo place, you faker.
speaker2: oh, yeah?

speaker1: hey, what's your name, anyway? 
speaker2: clyde barrow.

speaker1: ...you ready?... 
speaker2: ...hey, wait...
speaker1: c'mon, honey, c'mon, boy...let's go...let's...
speaker2: look, i don't do that. it's not that i can't-- --it's just that i don't see no percentage in it.

speaker1: i mean there's nothin' wrong with me, i don't like boys. 
speaker2: boy...boy...boy...
speaker1: boy, what?
speaker2: your advertising is dandy. folks'd just never guess you don't have a thing to sell. you better take me home, now.
speaker1: wait!
speaker2: don't touch me!
speaker1: but you're worth more'n that, a lot more, and you know it, and that's why you come along with me. you could find a lover boy on every corner in town and it doesn't make a to them whether you're waiting on tables or picking cotton, so long as you cooperate.

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: why? because you're different! you're like me and you want different things.
speaker2: you and me travelin' together, we could cut clean acrost this state, and kansas, too, and maybe dip into oklahoma, and missouri or whatnot, and catch ourselves highpockets and a highheeled ol' time. we can be somethin' we could never be alone. i'll show you...when we walk into the adolphus hotel in san antone', you wearin' a silk dress, they'll be waitin' on you and believe me, sugar, they're gonna know your last name. he stops, having begun to woo her to something more intense than a casual, physical coupling.
speaker1: when'd you figure that all out?
speaker2: first time i saw you.
speaker1: how come?
speaker2: 'cause you may be the best girl in texas.
speaker1: who are you, anyway?

speaker1: i'll tell you about you. 
speaker1: lessee...you were born somewheres around east texas...got a big old family, right?...you went to school, of course, but you didn't take to it much 'cause you was a lot smarter than everybody else anyway. so you just quit. now... ...when you were sixteen...no, seventeen, there was a guy who worked in...uh...
speaker2: cement plant--
speaker1: right. cement plant. and you liked him 'cause he thought you was just as nice as you could be. you almost married that guy, but then...you thought, no, you didn't think you would. so you got your job in the cafe... and every morning you wake up and you hate it. you just hate it. and you get down there and you put on your white uniform--

speaker1: pink. 
speaker2: and the truck drivers come in to eat greasy burgers and they kid you and you kid them back, but they're stupid and boys with big tattoos all over 'em, and you don't like it...and they ask you for dates and sometimes you go...but you mostly don't, and all they ever try is to get into your pants whether you want to or not...and you go home and sit in your room and think, when and how will i ever get away from this?...and now you know.
speaker2: you're a knockout.

speaker1: sure it is. 
speaker2: but we came in this one.
speaker1: don't mean we have to go home in it.

speaker1: clyde... 
speaker1: clyde...
speaker2: hey, lady.
speaker1: where you been keeping yourself?
speaker2: slept out by the car.
speaker1: oh...these accommodations ain't particularly deluxe.
speaker2: no...if they're after us, i want the first shot. come on, you got some work to do.

speaker1: you're good. 
speaker2: the best.
speaker1: and modest...
speaker2: come on. got you all set up over here.
speaker2: set her spinnin'.
speaker2: again. come down slow with it...
speaker2: ain't you something? i tell you i'm going to get you a smith and wesson, it'll be easier in your hand. now try it again once...
speaker3: heighdo.

speaker1: no sir...no sir. you all go right ahead. 
speaker1: yessir, moved us off. now it belongs to them.
speaker2: well, that's a pitiful shame.
speaker1: you're right, ma'm.

speaker1: you all mind? 
speaker1: hey, davis! come on over here.
speaker1: much obliged.
speaker1: otis harrison. and this here's davis. we worked this place.
speaker2: we rob banks.

speaker1: you just stay in the car and watch and be ready. okay now? you just be ready if i need you. 
speaker1: scared?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what are you thinkin' about?
speaker2: nothin'.

speaker1: this is a stickup. just take it easy and nothin' will happen to you. 
speaker2: heighdy.
speaker1: gimme the money!
speaker2: what money? there ain't no money here, mister.
speaker1: what do you mean there ain't no money? this here is a bank, ain't it?
speaker2: this was a bank. we failed three weeks ago.
speaker1: what? what??

speaker1: give me a loaf of bread, a dozen eggs and a quart of milk. 
speaker1: this is a stickup. i'll take all the money in that drawer now.

speaker1: what was wrong, anyway? 
speaker2: air bubble--clogged the fuel line.
speaker2: i just blowed her away.
speaker1: you just blowed it away.

speaker1: 'scuse me, ma'm... anythin' else i can do for you? 
speaker2: well...i'm not sure... say, them little red things there stickin' up? are they gas pumps?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: isn't that interesting? how does that there gasoline get in my little old car?
speaker1: well, y'see, there's this tank underground, and the gas comes up this tube into the pump and into your car, m'am.
speaker2: my, you're a smart fellow. you sure know a lot about automobiles, don't you?
speaker1: yeah, i do.
speaker2: well, would you know what kind of a car this is?
speaker1: yeah, it's a chevrolet 8-cylinder coupe.
speaker2: no, no.
speaker1: sure it is.

speaker1: no, this is a stolen chevrolet 8- cylinder coupe. 
speaker2: you ain't scared, are you? i believe he is. what a pity. we sure coulda used a smart boy who knows such a great deal about automobiles. you a good driver, boy?
speaker3: i guess so.
speaker2: no, i don't think so. he's better off here...
speaker1: what's your name, boy?
speaker3: c.w. moss.
speaker1: what's the c.w. for?
speaker3: clarence wallace.
speaker1: i'm miss bonnie parker and this is mr. clyde barrow. we... rob... banks.
speaker2: ain't nothing wrong with that, is there, boy?

speaker1: uh, nope-- 
speaker2: no, he ain't the one.
speaker3: unless, boy, you think you got enough guts for our line of work?
speaker1: what do you mean? i served a year in the reform school.
speaker2: oh, a man with a record!
speaker3: now look here, i know you got the nerve to short-change old ladies who come in for gas, but what i'm askin' you is have you got what it takes to pull bank jobs with us?
speaker2: mr. c.w. moss?
speaker1: sure, i could. sure i could. i ain't scared, if that's what you think.
speaker3: prove it.

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: it's just disgusting, that's why.
speaker1: not to me it ain't.
speaker2: but...but it makes everything sweet!
speaker1: yeah, i know.
speaker1: no mayonnaise!
speaker2: clyde, why does he have to stay in the same room as us?
speaker3: lemme show you about tomorrow.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: now c.w.'ll be waitin' right outside in the car. here is the teller's cage. four of them and over here the desks and what have you...
speaker2: why, clyde...
speaker3: hmmm??

speaker1: in the same room with us? 
speaker2: hell, where else? ain't gonna spread out all over the state...
speaker2: not yet, anyway. now, the door to the bank is here now. you cover me from there.
speaker1: just that i love you so much.
speaker2: you're the best girl in texas.
speaker3: hey, you spilled the sugar.
speaker2: the layout for tomorrow up in mineola.
speaker3: mineola? gosh, that's four, five hundred miles from here!
speaker2: so what? we take u.s. 85 to willis point, don't you know, and cut over on state highway 28 at kaufman, keep on goin' till we hit the farm- to-market road that connects to 105 and that's right up by mineola. on a saturday afternoon...

speaker1: this is a stickup. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this is a stickup.

speaker1: boy, you gotta be poor in the head. you...! count of you i killed a man. murder...you too. 
speaker1: stupid.
speaker1: ever do a thing like that again, i'll kill you boy!
speaker2: ssshh! if you boys want to talk why don't you go outside?

speaker1: what do you think of me, c.w.? 
speaker2: uh...well, you're just fine, i guess. uh, well, course you're a real good shot...and...uh...well, sometimes you look pretty as a painting.
speaker2: hey, uh, bonnie...could you get me that washrag there?
speaker1: why'nt you come get it?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: whyn't you come get it, c.w.?

speaker1: aw, bonnie, come on, gimme it. 
speaker2: you simpleton, what would you do if we just pulled out some night while you was asleep?
speaker1: oh, i wouldn't know what to do. but you wouldn't do that. you couldn't now.
speaker2: that's right, c.w. we'll always be around to take care of you.

speaker1: bonnie, i want to talk to you. sit down. bonnie sits, a little taken off balance by his serious manner. but she listens quietly. 
speaker1: this afternoon we killed a man and we were seen. now nobody knows who you are yet, but they're going to be after me and anybody who's runnin' with me. now that's murder now and it's gonna get rough. look, i can't get out, but right now you still can. you say the word and i'll put you on the bus to go back to your mother. 'cause you mean a lot to me, honey, and i ain't going to make you run with me. so if you want, you say the word.
speaker2: oh, pshaw.
speaker1: bonnie, we could get killed.

speaker1: who'd wanna kill a sweet young thing like me? 
speaker2: i ain't no sweet young thing.
speaker1: oh, clyde, i can't picture you with a halo, and if you went to the other place you'd rob the devil blind, so he'd kick you right back to me.

speaker1: "what a beautiful thought i am thinking concernin' that great speckled bird, remember his name is recorded on the pages of holy word..." 
speaker2: all right, now you did foolish things as a young man, honey-love, but you went and paid your debt to society and that was right. but now you just gettin' back in with the criminal element.
speaker1: criminal element! this is my brother, darlin'. shoot, he ain't no more criminal than you are, blanche.
speaker2: well, that ain't what i heard.
speaker1: now word of mouth just don't go, darlin', you gotta have the facts. shoot. why he and me growed up together, slept and worked side by side. what a boy he was!
speaker2: he's a crook.
speaker1: now you stop bad-mouthin' him, blanche. we're just gonna have us a little family visit for a few weeks and then we'll go back to dallas and i'll get me a job somewheres.

speaker1: buck! 
speaker2: clyde! you son of a
speaker1: how's ma? how's sister?
speaker2: just fine, just fine. send their best to you.
speaker1: hey, you're fillin' out there.
speaker2: no! it's married life. you know what they say, it's the face powder that gets a man interested, but it's the baking powder that keeps him at home.

speaker1: hey! you gotta meet my wife. hey, honey, c'mon out here now and meet my baby brother. 
speaker2: howdy-do.

speaker1: well! you must be bonnie! now i hear you been takin' good care of the baby in the family. well sis, i'm real glad to meet you! say... i'd like you to meet my wife, blanche. 
speaker2: hello.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: everybody, this is c.w. moss. c.w., my brother buck and his wife, blanche.
speaker3: heighdy, y'all.
speaker3: well how do, mrs. barrow. or can i call you blanch? i sure am pleased to meet you. did you have a hard time findin' us here in this neck of the woods? well, you sure picked a good day for it. say, you got a screenland there! any new photos of myrna loy? she's my favorite picture star.
speaker4: hey, lemme get the kodak!
speaker2: hey, c.w., go put your pants on.

speaker1: y'all hear about the guy who thought western union was a cowboy's underwear? 
speaker2: lemme get one of my bride and my brother.
speaker3: buck! don't take my picture now.
speaker1: oh honey, now you look real fine.
speaker4: hey, buck, get one of this.
speaker1: clyde, you do one of me and my missus.

speaker1: let me take on of bonnie. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: hey, brother, let's you and me do a little talkin'.
speaker1: here, c.w., take the girls' picture.

speaker1: it was you or him, wasn't it? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: that guy you killed. you had to, didn't ya?
speaker2: yeah, he put me in a spot, so i had to. he didn't have a chinaman's chance.
speaker1: but you had to--
speaker2: yeah. i had to.

speaker1: don't say nothin' to blanche about it. 
speaker2: hey, that time you broke out of jail, she talk you into goin' back?
speaker1: yeah, you hear about that?
speaker2: i won't say nothin' to bonnie about it.
speaker1: i appreciate it.
speaker2: yeah...say, what d'ya think of bonnie?
speaker1: she's a real peach.
speaker1: boy, are we gonna have us a good time!
speaker2: we surely are!
speaker1: yessir! what are we gonna do?
speaker2: well, how's this--i thought we'd all go to missouri. they ain't lookin' for me there. we'll hole up someplace and have us a regular vacation. all right?

speaker1: no trouble, now? 
speaker2: no trouble. i ain't lookin' to go back to prison.
speaker1: hey, what's this i hear about you cuttin' up your toes, boy?
speaker2: that ain't but half of it. i did it so i could get off work detail-- breakin' those rocks with a hammer day and night. sure enough, next week i got paroled. i walked out of that god-forsaken jail on crutches.
speaker1: shoot--
speaker2: ain't life grand?

speaker1: i give him a month's rent in advance. we're all set. let's get inside. 
speaker2: pull up and unload the stuff.
speaker1: honey-love, i'm taking you into our first home.

speaker1: oh look, it's so clean, buck. and a frigidaire...not an icebox! 
speaker2: he give me the grocery number.
speaker2: lemme see, eh 4337...operator... please ma'm, may i have 4337...if you please?
speaker1: oh...they got linoleum on the counter. ain't that clever!
speaker2: hello, smitty's grocery...i'd like to order a mess of groceries. oh yeah...eh 143 hillsdale street. lessee, about 8 pounds of porkchops, 4 pounds of red beans...a can of chase and sandborn...uh.
speaker1: oh, isn't this something, daddy!
speaker2: sshh. uh...quart of milk...uh 8 bottles of dr. pepper and that's it, i guess. no...no. uh...a box of rice krispies...bye now.

speaker1: gotcha! 
speaker2: again.
speaker1: boy, you ain't never gonna beat me but you keep tryin' now.
speaker3: jest like an ol' man. plays checkers all the time and doesn't pay any attention to his poor lonely wife.
speaker1: cut it out now, honey. i'm gonna teach this boy a lesson he'll never forget.

speaker1: oh, daddy, you shore need a haircut. you look just like a little old hillbilly boy, i do declare. oh mercy me, oh my stars! 
speaker1: oh, daddy! yore such a slowpoke!
speaker2: hush up a little. they're in the next room.
speaker1: shoot, there's always somebody in this room, the next room and ever' other kind of room.
speaker2: oof!...now that ain't no nice way to talk about my brother.
speaker1: i ain't talking about your brother.

speaker1: honey, do you ever just want to be alone with me? i don't just mean like that...i mean do you ever have the notion of us bein' out together and alone, like at some fancy ball, or, i don't know, where we walk in all dressed and they announce us and it's fancy and in public, but we're alone somehow. we're separate from everybody else, and they know it. 
speaker2: i always feel like we're separate from everybody else.
speaker1: do you, baby?

speaker1: quiet! i'll get it. 
speaker1: who is it?
speaker2: groceries, m'am.

speaker1: how much? 
speaker2: six dollars and forty-three cents.
speaker2: here, m'am, them bags is heavy.
speaker3: what was it?
speaker4: quiet. open the door.
speaker1: c'mon, c'mon...

speaker1: you write that all by yourself? 
speaker2: you want to hear this or not?
speaker2: "still you can't always judge the story as true, being told by her. now 'sal' was a gal of rare beauty, though her features were coarse and tough--"
speaker3: yeah, i knew her. she was cockeyed and had a hare-lip and no teeth!
speaker2: "now 'sal' was a gal of rare beauty, though her features were coarse and tough; she never once faltered from duty to play on the 'up and up'."
speaker2: "sal told me this tale on the evening before she was turned out free, and i'll do my best to relate it just as she told it to me--"
speaker4: it's the law.

speaker1: what did i do wrong? i s'pose you'd be happier if i got shot. 
speaker2: yeah, it would of saved us all a lot of trouble.
speaker1: buck, don't let that woman talk to me like that!
speaker3: you shouldn't have done it, blanche. it was a thing to do.
speaker1: please, buck, i didn't marry you to see you shot up! please, let's go! let's get out of here and leave.
speaker3: can't. i killed a man. we're in this now.
speaker1: please! please!
speaker2: shut up! just shut up your big mouth! at least do that, will ya, just shut up.
speaker4: cut it out, bonnie.
speaker2: stop the car. i want to talk to you.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: get rid of her.
speaker1: can't do that. she's buck's wife.
speaker2: get rid of both of them then.
speaker1: why? what's the matter with you anyway?
speaker2: she's what's the matter with me, a stupid back country hick without a brain in her head. she ain't nothin' but prunes and proverbs.
speaker1: what makes you any better? what makes you so special? you're just a west dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers!
speaker2: you talk to me like that! big clyde barrow, just the same as your brother, an ignorant uneducated hillbilly. only special thing about you is your peculiar ideas about lovemakin'--which is no love makin' at all.

speaker1: look, bonnie-- he can't finish. 
speaker2: clyde...honey...i didn't mean all that, honey. blame it on all that shootin', i just felt so bad...sure enough...clyde?
speaker1: okay...okay, hon...let's get movin'...

speaker1: hey, y'all, listen to this here: law enforcement officers throughout the southwest are frankly amazed at the way in which will-of-the-wisp bandit clyde barrow and his yellow- haired companion, bonnie parker, continue to elude their would-be captors. since engaging the police in a gun battle on the streets of joplin missouri and slaying three of their number... 
speaker2: oh, lord...
speaker1: ...the barrow gang has been reported as far west as white city, new mexico, and as far north as chicago. they have been credited with robbing the mesquite bank in the aforementioned white city, the j.j. landry oil refinery in arp, texas, the sanger city national bank in denton, texas on three different occasions. in addition to these robberies, the fast travelling barrows have been rumored to have had a hand in the robbing of two piggly wiggly stores in texas, and one aandp store in missouri, though chief percy hammond, who first identified clyde barrow's brother, buck, as a member of the gang, expressed some doubt that these last robberies were committed by the barrow gang alone.
speaker3: go on.
speaker4: clyde, we ain't goin' to see a restroom for another thirty miles. why don't you just stop here?

speaker1: buck's voice is continuing: 
speaker2: anderson was held up as an example for every other texas peace officer today. "that was a mighty brave thing," explained highway patrol chief l.c. winston.
speaker3: sheriff!
speaker4: boy! what a shot, clyde!
speaker2: sweet i never seen shootin' like that!
speaker3: well, now, getta load of this. i want y'all to know we are in the custody of cap'n frank bryce, and frank here is a texas ranger.

speaker1: sure 'nough, clyde? 
speaker2: say there, peacemaker. i believe you got your spurs all tangled up. you're in missouri, you know that?
speaker3: you didn't know you was in missouri?
speaker1: he's lost, this here texas ranger.
speaker3: --he ain't lost...them banks are offerin' extra reward money fer us, and frank figured on easy pickin's, didn't you? didn't you?
speaker3: --now you ain't hardly doin' your job, texas ranger. you oughta be home lookin' after the rights of poor folks, not out chasin' after us.
speaker2: easy there, clyde. why take is so personal.
speaker3: reg'lar laws is one thing. but this here bounty hunting, we got to discourage that. blanche looks very uncomfortable. she starts to say something, but buck intervenes.

speaker1: like how, clyde?-- 
speaker2: shoot him.
speaker2: ...hang him?...
speaker3: --uh-uh. take his picture.
speaker2: take his picture?
speaker3: then we'll let the newspapers have it--so's everyone can see captain frank bryce of the texas rangers with the barrow gang-- --and all bein' just as friendly as pie.
speaker1: ...yeah, yeah...
speaker3: --why we 'bout the friendliest folks in the world. texas ranger waves his big ol' gun at us, and we just welcome him like he's one of our own.

speaker1: buck, get the kodak! 
speaker2: hot dog!
speaker2: ...keep him set on the hood, there...more to the sun, like that...yeah...when all his ranger friends see this...i bet he's gonna wish he was dead!
speaker1: ...see what come o' your mischief?...not doin' your job? down in duncanville last year poor farmers kepts the laws away from us with shot guns...you're s'posed to be protectin' them from us, and they're protectin' us from you. --don't make sense, do it?
speaker2: c'mon, now, clyde, you and bonnie first. move into him, right close, right friendly.
speaker1: all righty don't move, now, hear?

speaker1: how's this? "captain bryce and new found friend." 
speaker2: ...yeah, yeah...quick, buck, get it...
speaker3: ...i'm gettin' it, i'm gettin' it.
speaker3: i got the picture. i got the picture...
speaker2: lemme be, lemme be...
speaker3: i got the picture!

speaker1: reaction. clyde waist deep, breathing heavily. 
speaker2: ...all right, all right...

speaker1: this is the barrow gang. everybody just take it easy and nobody will get hurt. 
speaker2: don't do nothin' silly now.
speaker1: that your money or the bank's?
speaker3: mine.
speaker1: keep it, then.

speaker1: next time i'll aim a little lower. 
speaker2: get a good look at us! we're the barrow boys.

speaker1: we got to make that state line! 
speaker2: can't get more'n this out of a plymouth!

speaker1: then he saw me goin' for my gun. clyde barrow himself, i mean. and suddenly i was starin' into the face of death! 
speaker2: tsk, tsk.
speaker3: just look this way, mr. hawkins.

speaker1: turn around. don't waste no more gas. 
speaker2: ain't we gone to catch 'em?

speaker1: hell, they're over the state line. 
speaker2: why don't we get 'em anyway?
speaker1: i ain't gone to risk my life in oklahoma. that's their problem.

speaker1: hell. that ain't much, is it? 
speaker2: times is hard,
speaker1: well, let's get to it.
speaker1: this is clyde barrow. buck barrow... bonnie parker...c.w. clyde, buck...bonnie...c.w. clyde, clyde again...buck...bonnie...c.w.

speaker1: bonnie...c.s....clyde... 
speaker2: um...eh...clyde?
speaker1: hah?
speaker2: uh, clyde...well...what about blanche?

speaker1: well, why not? say i earned my share! same as everybody. i coulda got killed same as everybody, and i'm wanted by the law same as everybody. besides i coulda got snake bit sleepin' in them woods every night! i'm just a nervous wreck and that's the truth. and i have to listen to sass from miss bonnie parker all the time. i deserve mine! 
speaker2: okay...okay...hold your horses, blanche. you'll get your share.

speaker1: married a preacher's daughter and she still thinks she's takin' the collection. 
speaker1: well, don't spend it all in one place now, hear?
speaker2: she'll be doin' right well to spend it at all.
speaker3: bonnie?
speaker3: look, bonnie, i've said it and i guess i'll keep sayin' it before we're thru--blanche is buck's wife and buck is family.
speaker2: --she's such a silly-billy...
speaker2: my family could use some of that money.

speaker1: them laws have been hangin' round your mamas house 'til all hours, bonnie. it's just too risky to go there. 
speaker2: well, where can we go? we rob the banks, what else do we do?

speaker1: i hear you, c.w. 
speaker2: this ol' heap's gushin' oil! we got to swipe us another set of wheels right away, or we won't get anywhere. look here.
speaker2: see?

speaker1: mmmm...sweet thing... 
speaker2: say, isn't that your car, eugene?
speaker1: mmmmmm...huh? that's my car! hey!

speaker1: i'll tear 'em apart! those punks! steal a man's car right out from under him! wait till i get my hands on those kids, velma, i'll show 'em! 
speaker2: what if they have guns, eugene?
speaker1: we'd better get the police and let them handle this.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: they stopped chasin' us. they turned around. 
speaker2: let's take 'em.

speaker1: c'mon, get out! get out of there, i said. 
speaker1: get in here.

speaker1: what's your name? 
speaker2: i'm eugene grizzard.
speaker3: i'm velma davis.

speaker1: look, don't be scared, folks. it ain't like you was the law. you're just folks like us. 
speaker2: yeah, yeah, that's the truth.
speaker3: i expect you been readin' about us.
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: no.
speaker2: yes, velma, we have too.
speaker1: well, you two must be in love, i bet.
speaker5: well, when you gonna marry the girl, boy?

speaker1: how old are you, honey? 
speaker2: thirty-three.

speaker1: yeah, here you go. 
speaker2: take it easy on those french fries, velma. ain't that right, eugene?
speaker3: this isn't mine. i ordered mine well done. who's got the other hamburger?
speaker4: oh, is this supposed to be yours? he extends the bitten burger out to eugene.
speaker3: that's okay, forget it.
speaker1: haw! i sure am havin' a good time! how 'bout you folks? ain't you glad we picked you up?
speaker2: hey, maybe y'all ought to join up with us.
speaker3: ha! wouldn't they be surprised back home to hear that?
speaker5: yeah. what would martha and bill say if they heard that?

speaker1: lordy! they'd throw a fit! 
speaker2: what do you do, anyway?
speaker1: i'm an undertaker.
speaker2: get them out of here.

speaker1: ...see anythin', buck? 
speaker2: --not yet, boy.
speaker1: --and nobody saw her leave, or heard anythin'

speaker1: ...well, where do you think she could've gone?...buck?...buck? 
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: there! there! there!

speaker1: he starts running off into a cornfield. 
speaker2: leave me alone! leave me alone!
speaker3: hey...hey, hey, baby, hey, bonnie, hey baby... ...hey, hey now...just where did you think you were goin'?... bonnie doesn't answer.
speaker3: --huh. bonnie? where? where?

speaker1: i don't know! you're hurting me, i was just scared is all...and my mama's been on my mind, and she's gettin' so old... 
speaker2: boy, don't ever leave without sayin' somethin'. you really scared me, bonnie.
speaker1: but i mean it, though. i want to see my mama. please, clyde.
speaker2: okay, sweetheart.

speaker1: hey look, here's that one i took of you, clyde. that came out just fine! 
speaker2: where y'all headed from here?
speaker3: i don't know, what y'all got in mind? at this point we ain't headin' to anywhere, we're just runnin' from.

speaker1: clyde laughs, in fine spirits. 
speaker2: c'mon, down, litte tom! we're goin' home. little tom? mathew, fetch little tom.
speaker3: don't go yet, mama.
speaker4: ...you know, clyde, i read about y'all in the papers and i'm jes' scared.
speaker3: sugar, make mama stay a while yet.
speaker5: now mrs. parker, don't y'all believe what you read in the papers! that's the law talking there. they want us to look big so's they'll look big when they catch us.
speaker5: --and they can't do that. why, i'm even better at runnin' than robbin' banks--aw shoot, if we done half the stuff they said we did, we'd be millionaires, wouldn't we, old sugar.

speaker1: and i wouldn't risk bonnie here just to make money, uncertain as times are. why one time i knowed of a job where we could of make $2000 easy, but i saw the law outside and i said to myself, why bonnie could get hurt here. so i just drove right on and let that money lay. 
speaker2: ...maybe you know the way with her, then. i'm just an old woman and i don't know nothin...
speaker1: we'll be quittin' this just as soon as the hard times is over, mother parker, i can tell you that. why me and bonnie were just talkin' the other day and we talked about when we'd settle down and get us a home, and bonnie said, "i couldn't bear to live morn'n three miles from my precious mother." now how'd you like that, mother parker?
speaker2: don't believe i would. i surely don't. you try to live three miles from me and you won't live long, honey. you'd best keep runnin' and you know it, clyde barrow. bye, baby.

speaker1: how long have ya had it? 
speaker2: --just got it.
speaker1: touch it, honey! go on!
speaker3: oh, no, daddy! no!

speaker1: playin' with my tattoo, bonnie. 
speaker2: well, why don't you all go play with it somewhere else?
speaker3: what's bothering her?
speaker4: not now, blanche.
speaker5: what's bothering her, clyde?
speaker4: bonnie's hungry, c.w. i saw a chicken place a few miles back.

speaker1: you can't drive, honeylove. 
speaker2: i'll go.
speaker2: what's everybody want?
speaker3: just five chicken dinners, and get somethin' for dessert.
speaker1: see if they got peach ice cream.

speaker1: i hate you all. 
speaker2: i hate y'all, too.
speaker1: no, i really hate you.

speaker1: bonnie?...is it your mama, what your mama said? 
speaker2: what mama?...she's just an old woman now...i have no mama...
speaker2: ...so funny...i thought when we first went out, we were really goin' somewhere...but this is it-- we're just goin', huh? she has addressed this last directly to clyde, but there is nothing rhetorical about it--it is a real question. clyde doesn't answer for a moment. then:
speaker1: do you care about where we're goin'?
speaker2: not as long as you care about me.
speaker1: why i love you, sugar.
speaker3: --enough to die with me, baby?... 'cause i think that's where we're goin'...i surely do.

speaker1: you sure smokin' all the time lately. 
speaker2: so what?
speaker1: nothin'.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: whyn't you go back home to your papa?
speaker2: oh, if i could! if i could just do that one thing! oh, there's no tellin' why this all happened. i was a preacher's daughter.
speaker1: when church is your pa affiliated with?

speaker1: baptist...oh, and he thought the world of buck, my daddy did, even knowing that buck was serving time in jail. he forgave him for that 'cause he paid his debt to society. 
speaker2: we were disciples of christ.

speaker1: hey, c.w., i ain't got my money. give me some, will you? 
speaker2: get sheriff smoot on the phone.

speaker1: ready? 
speaker2: aw bonnie--
speaker1: c'mon!
speaker3: lie down now, honey.
speaker4: i've done enough!
speaker3: you have to lie down...it's the only way we can tell what we'll look together.
speaker4: whatta you think?

speaker1: that's not the right tie! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you can't wear polka-dots on an occasion like this.
speaker2: well what--
speaker1: stripes. don't go away now.
speaker1: perfect.
speaker2: ok, o.k. if we're gonna do this, at least i can tie it myself. lie down before you fall down.

speaker1: better? 
speaker2: much.

speaker1: "did you ever think when a hearse went by, that somebody you or i may die? they'll wrap you up in a big white sheet and bury you down just about six feet, the worms crawl in, the worms crawl out, the worms play penuckle on your snout. your eyes fall in, your teeth fall out, your face turns green and the pus runs out. 
speaker2: i'm gonna die if i don't get some sleep. quit singing that.
speaker3: all right, shut your eyes now.
speaker4: no, you first.
speaker3: one for the money.
speaker4: two for the show.
speaker3: three to get ready--
speaker5: four to go.

speaker1: he ain't got a chance. half his head blown off. 
speaker2: my eyes! i think i'm blind. ...light hurts so bad...
speaker2: please, please get us to a doctor! tell clyde to get us to a doctor.
speaker3: --here, hon'.
speaker2: he's your brother!
speaker3: buck can't be moved, now, hon'.

speaker1: with buck and clyde. 
speaker2: clyde?...clyde?...
speaker3: right here, boy.
speaker2: i believe i lost my shoes...maybe the dog hid 'em...

speaker1: don't kill him! don't kill him! he's dying! 
speaker1: don't die, daddy. don't die!

speaker1: saw...saw a farm...up ahead...gotta get...a car... 
speaker2: baby, no...

speaker1: maybe-- 
speaker2: shhh!
speaker2: oh, no.
speaker1: what? what?
speaker1: c'mon! c'mon! c'mon!

speaker1: head out, c.w. 
speaker2: i'm goin' home to my daddy's farm.

speaker1: who are you, boy? 
speaker2: name's moss.
speaker1: it's bonnie parker and clyde barrow.

speaker1: who was they, pa? 
speaker2: that was bonnie and clyde, the bank robbers.

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker2: daddy?
speaker1: who's there? who is it?
speaker2: it's c.w. it's clarence.
speaker1: clarence!
speaker1: it's good to see you, boy!
speaker1: what's that on your chest?
speaker2: huh? it's a tattoo...i'm in trouble. i'll tell you about it later. my friends are hurt. help me get 'em in.
speaker1: what happened to them? you in trouble, son?
speaker2: yeah. that's clyde barrow and bonnie parker. we been shot. help me get 'em inside. we gotta help 'em.

speaker1: why'd you get yourself marked up? a tattoo! what in made you do a fool thing like that? 
speaker2: c'mon, pa, open the door.

speaker1: i was in the bunch that took 'er. see here? can you make me out? here i am, see here, right behind joe boyd here. 
speaker2: sure enough, billy, is that your head there?
speaker1: still can't figure how we let them other two get away.
speaker2: yeah, seems as how nobody can get 'em somehow.
speaker1: yeah...well, maybe this boy'll be the one to do it, this hamer guy. boy if he can't do it, sheriff, ain't nobody but the whole u.s.

speaker1: you hear he quit the rangers on account of texas got that woman governor. said he wouldn't work under no woman. 
speaker2: yeah, that's somethin' all right. say, how many they say he shot anyway in his day?
speaker1: sixty-five they say.
speaker2: son of a sea-cook!
speaker1: frank hammer. i sure am pleased to meet you!
speaker3: hamer.

speaker1: fled? what do they mean, fled? how in the nama could i leave my brother to die when he was already dead when i left him? he was shot in too many pieces to pick off the ground! fled...what do they know, the papers or the police?... 
speaker1: why, while we were all lyin' around here, near dead, they had us holdin' up the grand prairie national bank! they hung that one on us just for luck, i guess.
speaker1: tell you what. soon's we get well, we're gonna take that bank!
speaker1: whooooooo, boy... they don't know nothin'--do they, sugar?

speaker1: you did all you could, hon'. nobody coulda done more. 
speaker2: hey. how come i'm always called the "un-identified sus-spect?"
speaker3: you can just thank your lucky stars that's all you are. so long's they don't have your last name, you're home safe.
speaker4: mr. barrow's lookin' out for your interests, boy.
speaker2: oh...hey, pa, how you like havin' a coupla big deals stayin' with you?
speaker4: ain't that somethin' for me?
speaker3: well now, you been real nice to us, and i tell you what, let us pay you forty dollars for your hospitality, what do you say?
speaker4: no, no, no. i don't want your money. i'm just pleased to have your company. any friend of my boy's...
speaker2: hey, pa, let's have supper. i'm hungry.

speaker1: you look like trash, boy, marked up like that. cheap trash. 
speaker2: bonnie says it looks good.
speaker1: bonnie, what does she know. she's just cheap trash herself. look what they do to you, and you don't even get your name in the paper-- just pictures put on your skin, by "bonnie and clyde"-- --why they're a coupla kids.
speaker2: but, daddy--
speaker1: i'm just glad your ma ain't alive to see that thing.
speaker2: i don't see what's so bad about it...

speaker1: blanche barrow. 
speaker2: what? what? who is it?
speaker1: you know your husband's dead.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: you're going to prison.
speaker2: i know it.
speaker1: where's the rest of 'em?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: where's the rest of 'em?
speaker2: i just don't know. i don't know.
speaker1: how'd you get in with them?

speaker1: i didn't mean to. i didn't. buck said we was just goin' to visit, we wouldn't be doin' no robbin' and stealin', and then we went to joplin and all of a sudden they started shootin'. and we run off, i was scared. and then it was run all the time, and i wanted to go, i begged to go, but clyde and bonnie and c.w.-- 
speaker2: c.w. c.w. who?
speaker1: c.w. moss.

speaker1: no, hum-umm. but thanks anyway, clyde. it's real nice here, just the two of us like this. 
speaker2: uh-huh. look here, honey, remember this?
speaker1: yeah, at the motel.
speaker2: what you writin' this time?
speaker1: i'm writing a poem about us. i'm writing our story.
speaker2: oh, are you? let's hear it. if it's good, i'll mail it in to the law and it'll be printed in all the papers again.
speaker1: just let me finish this line.

speaker1: she does so. clyde munches a cookie. 
speaker2: okay, here it is.
speaker2: "the story of bonnie and clyde" you've heard the story of jesse james-- of how he lived and died: if you're still in need of something to read here's the story of bonnie and clyde. now bonnie and clyde are the barrow gang i'm sure you all have read how they rob and steal and those who squeal are usually found dying or dead. they call them cold-hearted killers; they say they are heartless and mean; but i say this with pride, that i once knew clyde when he was honest and upright and clean. but the laws fooled around, kept taking him down and locking him in a cell, till he said to me, "i'll never be free so i'll meet a few of them in hell." the road was so dimly lighted; there were no highway signs to guide; but they made up their minds if all roads were blind, they wouldn't give up till they died.

speaker1: the road gets dimmer and dimmer; sometimes you can hardly see; but it's fight man to man, and do all you can, for they know they can never be free. from heartbreak some people have suffered; from weariness some people have died; but take it all in all, our troubles are small, till we get like bonnie and clyde. 
speaker2: if a policeman is killed in dallas, and they have no clue or guide; if they can't find a fiend, they just wipe their slate clean and hang it on bonnie and clyde.

speaker1: that's me! 
speaker1: in that poem!
speaker1: a sub-gun's rat-tat-tat! right in the paper!
speaker1: jesse james! you hear 'bout old jesse, now you goin' to hear 'bout clyde!
speaker1: pshhhhhh!

speaker1: oooooh, that clyde! that's my boy, that clyde! 
speaker1: bonnie... the poem of bonnie and clyde!
speaker2: the story.
speaker1: the story of bonnie and clyde! oh, child, you really did tell that story!

speaker1: damn!...damn...damn! 
speaker1: hey, listen, bonnie, how do you feel?
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: i mean you feel like you're s'posed to feel after you've uh...
speaker2: just.

speaker1: well, that's good, ain't it. reason i ask is, i uh... well, i figger it's a good idea to ask. i mean how else do i tell if i did it the way... 
speaker2: hey. you done just perfect.
speaker1: i did, didn't i? i mean i did, i really did. i did it, i did, i mean this was my first time and it was just like rollin' off a log when it comes right down to it, it was easy, i mean i didn't even have to try...

speaker1: boy, they expect you to go downtown with 'em tomorrow? 
speaker2: who?

speaker1: bonnie and clyde!... bonnie and clyde. 
speaker2: sure, i always go with them.
speaker1: ...better go then, you better go, better go... --but when they get back in the car to come on home, don't get in with them.
speaker2: why, daddy?
speaker1: you just listen to your pa fer once! cain't you do that? i'm yore daddy, i'm your kin, not clyde.
speaker1: no, you tell them nothin', hear? i made a deal and got you off with a coupla years!
speaker2: made a deal with who, daddy?

speaker1: ...the law. just don't get back in that car. and whatever you do, don't let onto them, hear? 
speaker1: what do you think, clarence?
speaker2: they ain't gonna catch 'em. don't matter whether i let on or not.
speaker1: mebbe. just you be off'n the streets of that town when they go to get in their car.
speaker2: nobody catches clyde. clyde's got a sense, don't you know that, daddy? nobody catches clyde.

speaker1: how could i do that, clyde? you know it's impossible. we'd have to go to a justice of the peace and the justice of the peace is a lawman. we couldn't even take out a license. 
speaker2: hey now, you sound like you been givin' it some thought on your own.
speaker1: oh no, i never gave it thought. i haven't thought about it at least ten times a day, i haven't thought about it every minute of my life since i met you.
speaker2: bonnie...are you crying, honey?
speaker1: clyde, why do you want to marry me?

speaker1: clyde thinks a minute and then grins. 
speaker2: to make an honest woman out of you.
speaker3: clyde...what would you do, what would you do it some miracle happened and we could walk out tomorrow morning and start all over again, clean, with no record, with nobody after us?
speaker2: well...i guess i'd do it all different. first off, i wouldn't live in the same state where we pull our jobs. we'd live in one state and stay clean there, and when we wanted to take a bank, we'd go to another state...and...
speaker2: bonnie?
speaker2: hey, bonnie?

speaker1: what happened to c.w.? 
speaker2: he stopped off in that hardware store to get light bulbs for his daddy.

speaker1: boy, my feet are sweatin'. 
speaker2: you plannin' to drive with your shoes off?
speaker1: sure, why not?
speaker1: 
speaker2: you gonna wear 'em?
speaker1: sure, drive with one eye shut.

speaker1: isn't that the prettiest thing, hon? just look here, you can see every little fingernail on her hands. 
speaker2: it is a pretty thing, honey.
speaker1: we got any peaches? i sure could go for a peach right now.
speaker2: whyn't we do it tomorrow?
speaker1: do what?
speaker2: tomorrow's sunday, ain't it? we could drive all night and be on that golf course tomorrow morning!
speaker1: you sure you feel up to it?
speaker2: yeah, why not? where is that boy? he's gone too long.

speaker1: he'll be here. you take a bite, hon. 
speaker2: no, it's takin' too long. what if something happened?
speaker1: nothin' happened.
speaker1: he ain't there.
speaker2: c'mon, let's go.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i don't know.

