speaker1: oh my ... why they doinâ’ that? 
speaker2: who the knows. what you have in your mouth?
speaker2: spit it out!!! ... pull your teeth out ... doctor said. what you tryinâ’ to do? spit it out!!!

speaker1: ...yes you heard me... donâ’t ever call back here again. 
speaker2: mama???
speaker1: you know who it was and you know you arenâ’t, and i mean are not gonna see him ever... end of story.
speaker2: like hell.

speaker1: i can dig this music... but not that singer. 
speaker2: why?... heâ’s right in the groove.
speaker1: heâ’s so ugly. guys with beards and beer guts ainâ’t quite my type.
speaker2: seeinâ’s how youâ’re about as thick as a used string of unwaxed dental floss, donâ’t know how you can criticize.
speaker1: yeah, well, if he says that all that flab turns into at midnight, heâ’s a liar.
speaker1: so, sailorâ’s gettinâ’ out soon, and youâ’re gonna see him?
speaker2: meetinâ’ him at the gate. that phone call this afternoon was the signal. my deranged mamaâ’s hid the keys to my car. but of course, i know exactly where they are.
speaker1: i didnâ’t hate me so much, iâ’d feel better wishinâ’ you luck.
speaker2: canâ’t all husbands be perfect, and your elmo probâ’ly wouldnâ’ta ever got that second one pregnant, you hadnâ’t kicked his out.
speaker1: so youâ’re gonna be needinâ’ the â“blue-birdâ” pretty soon?
speaker2: real soon ... iâ’ll be makinâ’ the swap tomorrow, and thanks again, beany.

speaker1: whereâ’s johnnie? heâ’s not in his office. 
speaker2: havenâ’t seen â’im yet today, marietta.
speaker1: well i gotta find him - right this minute!

speaker1: hey baby... 
speaker2: peanut...
speaker2: hey, my snakeskin jacket... thanks, baby... did i ever tell you that this here jacket for me is a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom?
speaker1: â’bout fifty thousand times. i got us a room at the cape fear, and guess what?... i hear powermadâ’s at â“the hurricane.â”
speaker2: stab it and steer.

speaker1: did you ever think somethinâ’ like about the wicked witch of the east cominâ’ flyinâ’ in?... did you ever think somethinâ’ and then later think youâ’ve said it out loud to someone? 
speaker2: i really did miss your mind while i was out at pee dee, honey. the rest of you, too, of course. but the way your head works is godâ’s own private mystery. what was it you was thinkinâ’?
speaker1: well, i was thinkinâ’ about smokinâ’ actually... my mama smokes marlboros now, used to be she smoked kools? i stole â’em from her beginninâ’ in about sixth grade. when i got old enough to buy my own, i bought those. now iâ’ve just about settled on mores, as you probably noticed? theyâ’re longer.
speaker2: i guess i started smokinâ’ when i was about six... my mama was already dead from lung cancer...
speaker1: what brandâ’d she smoke?
speaker2: camels, same as me... guess both my mama and my daddy died of smoke or alcohol related illness.
speaker1: gee, sailor. iâ’m sorry, honey. i never would have guessed it.
speaker2: itâ’s okay. i hardly used to see them anyway. i didnâ’t have much parental guiding. the public defender kept sayinâ’ that at my parole hearinâ’. he was a good olâ’ boy, stood by me... even brought me some cartons of cigarettes from time to time.
speaker1: iâ’d stand by you, sailor ... through anything.
speaker2: hell, peanut, you stuck with me after i planted bob ray lemon. a man canâ’t ask for more than that.
speaker1: you move me, sailor, you really do. you mark me the deepest.
speaker2: youâ’re perfect for me, too.
speaker1: you remind me of my daddy, you know? mama told me he liked skinny women whose were just a bit too big for their bodies. he had a long nose, too, like theirs. did i ever tell you how he died?
speaker2: in a fire, as i recall.
speaker1: started he couldnâ’t remember things? got real violent? mama kept tellinâ’ me it was on account of lead poisoning from cleaninâ’ the old paint off our house without usinâ’ a mask... but i donâ’t know. seems like his brain just fell apart in pieces.

speaker1: it was a year before i met you. 
speaker2: you have such a pretty, long neck, like a swan.
speaker1: grandmama pace had a long, smooth white neck. it was like on a statue it was so white?

speaker1: i knew this would happen. soon as that piece of filth got out of pee dee, i knew thereâ’d be trouble. heâ’s just got some kind of influence over her i canâ’t decipher. thereâ’s somethinâ’ wild in lula i donâ’t know where it comes from. you gotta find â’em, johnnie. 
speaker2: he served his time for what he did. another thing... if lula went with him of her own volition - willingly, that is - there ainâ’t much can be done about it.
speaker1: donâ’t talk down to me, johnnie farragut. i know what volition means, and thatâ’s why i want sailor ripley off the planet! heâ’s pure slime and itâ’s leakinâ’ all over my baby. maybe you could push him into makinâ’ some kinda move and then kill him dead. youâ’d only be defendinâ’ yourself, and with his record, nobodyâ’d fuss.
speaker2: iâ’ll locate lula, marietta, and if sheâ’s with the ripley boy, iâ’ll give him a talkinâ’ to and try to convince her to come back with me. thatâ’s about all i can do.
speaker1: iâ’ll hire a hit man if you donâ’t want to help me stop this thing. iâ’ll call marcello santos.
speaker2: now, marietta, i am goinâ’ to help you. and donâ’t be gettinâ’ carried away. you donâ’t want to be bringinâ’ santos and his people into it.
speaker1: youâ’re just jealous of santos cause heâ’s sweet on me.
speaker2: darlinâ’, you ainâ’t seeinâ’ santos again, are ya?
speaker1: oh, johnnie farragut... donâ’t you trust your very own marietta?
speaker2: sorry, sweetheart. beinâ’ in love with you like i am brings out that ugly jealous side.
speaker1: well stop worryinâ’ about me and start worryinâ’ about how youâ’re gonna get that lula back here and away from that murderer.
speaker2: sailor ainâ’t a murderer. you got to get off that kick. and farâ’s i can tell, sailor was entire clean prior to that involvinâ’ lula. even there he was protectinâ’ her. you oughta be thankinâ’ him for that. that bob ray lemon they say was cominâ’ after the both of â’em. why am i tellinâ’ you this, you was around that night. you ought to know just exactly what happened. sailor just got a little too forceful is all... you remember that night...

speaker1: maybe i was there, but i didnâ’t see anythinâ’. all i knowâ’s that trash killed a man with his bare hands. hands which are now probâ’ly all over my baby! 
speaker2: marietta, settle down now darlinâ’... i want whatâ’s best for her, too - like i said, iâ’ll do what i can to bring her home.

speaker1: sailor, you are somethinâ’ else, honey... when i was fifteen, mama told me that pretty soon iâ’d be startinâ’ to think about sex, and i should talk to her before i did anything about it. 
speaker2: but honey, i thought you told me your uncle pooch raped you when you was thirteen.
speaker1: thatâ’s true. uncle pooch wasnâ’t really an uncle. he was a business partner of my daddyâ’s? and my mama never knew nothinâ’ about me and him - thatâ’s for sure. his real name was somethinâ’ kind of european, like pucinski. but everyone just called him pooch. he came around the house sometimes when daddy was away. i always figured he was sweet on mama, so when he cornered me one afternoon, i was surprised moreâ’n a little.
speaker2: howâ’d it happen, peanut? he just pull out the old toad and let it croak?
speaker1: youâ’re terrible crude sometimes, sailor, you know?
speaker2: i canâ’t hardly understand you when you talk with one of them mores in your mouth.
speaker1: i said you can be too crude sometimes?
speaker2: sorry, sugar. go on and tell me how old pooch done the deed.
speaker1: well, mama was at the busy bee havinâ’ her hair dyed? and i was alone in the house.

speaker1: didnâ’t he say somethinâ’? 
speaker2: not really. least not so i recall now.
speaker1: so howâ’d he finally nail you? right there in the kitchen?
speaker2: no, he picked me up.

speaker1: â‘weâ’ did it? whattaya mean? didnâ’t he force you? 
speaker2: well, sure. but he was super-gentle, you know? i mean, he raped me and all, but i guess thereâ’s all different kinds of rapes. i didnâ’t exactly want him to do it but i suppose once it started, it didnâ’t seem all that terrible. it was over pretty quick, and after uncle pooch just stood there and pulled up his trousers and left me there. i stayed in bed till i heard him drive off. then i just went back into the kitchen and finished makinâ’ my sandwich.
speaker1: and you never told nobody about it?
speaker2: just you. uncle pooch never acted strange or different after. and he never did anything else to me. i always got a nice present from him at christmas, like a coat or jewelry?

speaker1: uncle pooch died in a car crash three years later while he was holidayinâ’ in myrtle beach. they still got way too much traffic there for my taste... and another thing, baby... that government of ours should be keepinâ’ us separated from outer space... 
speaker2: here she goes again...
speaker1: sailor, that ozone layer is disappearinâ’. seems to me the government could do somethinâ’ about it. one of these mornings the sunâ’ll come up and burn a hole clean through the planet like an x-ray.
speaker2: you okay, honey?
speaker1: that womanâ’s laugh creeps me out. i heard somethinâ’ like that... somewhere before... soundâ’d like the wicked witch...
speaker2: just sounded like an old gal havinâ’ a good time to me... you ready to dance?
speaker1: iâ’m always ready to dance. but i need me a kiss first, honey. just one?

speaker1: i knew youâ’d want it again... 
speaker2: thatâ’s not why i called.
speaker1: oh yeah - sure ... okay.
speaker2: santos... it isnâ’t.
speaker1: have it your way... but you want it.
speaker2: lulaâ’s gone off with sailor.
speaker1: what do you want me to do about it?
speaker2: i want you to take care of sailor, so he wonâ’t ever be able to bother my baby again.
speaker1: take care of him?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what does take care of him mean?... do you want me to give him food or some clothing?
speaker2: whatâ’s with you?... you know what take care of him means. i donâ’t call santos except for one big reason.
speaker1: big is the key word, and iâ’m telling you i want it bad.
speaker2: i want you to get rid of sailor.
speaker1: get rid of him?
speaker2: yes... get rid of him.
speaker1: how would i do that? send him on a trip - like maybe to hawaii?
speaker2: santos, why in do you insist on playinâ’ this stupid game?
speaker1: just tell me what you want.
speaker2: i donâ’t need to explain anymoreâ’n i have... you know well.
speaker1: you need to explain it.
speaker2: all right... i want you ... to ...
speaker1: simple? kill him?... how?
speaker2: thatâ’s your business... i donâ’t care how.
speaker1: like an accident where maybe lula might also get hurt?
speaker2: no... for godâ’s sakes, santos!
speaker1: well, like kill him with the atomic bomb?
speaker2: santos...
speaker1: explain it... i told you.
speaker2: shoot him.
speaker1: shoot him? like with a gun?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: where?... in the leg?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: in the head.
speaker1: shoot sailor in the head with a gun... now iâ’m beginning to get it... you want me to shoot sailor in the head with a gun.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: but where in the head?... not the chin, i hope.
speaker2: no... in the brains... what little iâ’m sure he has.
speaker1: you want me to shoot sailor in the brains with a gun.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: through the forehead?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: wrong! itâ’s much better to blow a hole in the back of the head ... right toward the bridge of the nose ... lots and lots of irreparable damage.
speaker2: see! i knew you had it all under control.
speaker1: why didnâ’t you send johnnie farragut?
speaker2: maybe i did... try new orleans first... lula canâ’t ever stop talkinâ’ â’bout that town.
speaker1: on one condition...
speaker1: you give me your permission to kill johnnie farragut.
speaker2: santos... no... please, santos...
speaker1: youâ’re not tellinâ’ me that youâ’re sweet on him?
speaker2: no... but...
speaker1: one day heâ’s gonna find out what weâ’re up to with mr. reindeer, and he could cause us a lot of trouble.
speaker1: iâ’m gonna take your silence as a â“yesâ”...
speaker2: santos... i canâ’t...
speaker1: shhhh... itâ’s all right... also, i either take you or that pretty daughter of yours to bed.
speaker2: you fucker, donâ’t you ever touch lula - you fucker, iâ’ll kill you.
speaker1: put your shoulders back.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: put your shoulders back, i said.
speaker1: you got nice
speaker2: someoneâ’s gonna see us.
speaker1: thatâ’s just another part of the price to pay.
speaker2: santos... you kill that sailor, otherwise heâ’s gonna turn my baby against me.
speaker1: look at me... thereâ’s no turning back on this... iâ’m gonna kill sailor...

speaker1: are you going to provide me with an opportunity to prove my love to my girl? or are you gonna save youself some trouble and step up like a gentleman and apologize to her? 
speaker2: donâ’t with me, man. you look like a clown in that stupid jacket.
speaker1: this is a snakeskin jacket, and for me itâ’s a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
speaker2: ...asshole.
speaker1: come here.
speaker3: sailor, honey...
speaker1: iâ’m sorry to do this to ya here in front of a crowd, but i want ya to stand up and make a nice apology to my girl.
speaker2: iâ’m sorry.
speaker3: hell, you just rubbed up against the wrong girl is all.
speaker1: thatâ’s good... now go get yourself a beer. you fellas have alotta the same power elvis had... yâ’all know this one?...

speaker1: why didnâ’t ya sing â“love me tenderâ”? ... you told me that was your favorite love song. 
speaker2: â’cause iâ’m only gonna sing that song to my wife.
speaker1: what you want to watch this trash for? ainâ’t one of those people have a real thought in their brain.
speaker2: that so? you want to tell me what, if any, real thoughts you had lately?
speaker1: what you have to get personal about so quick? all i mean is you could possibly read a book.
speaker1: whatâ’s that honey?
speaker2: we didnâ’t have no tv up at pee dee, baby, you know?
speaker1: iâ’m sorry, sweetie. i forget some moments where all you been the last two years.
speaker2: twenty-three months, eighteen days is all. donâ’t need to make moreâ’n it was. this coupleâ’s goinâ’ on a date to hawaii. the girl chose him over the other two guys.
speaker1: donâ’t the reject guys get anythinâ’?
speaker2: gift certificates to kentucky fried chicken.
speaker1: that donâ’t seem fair.
speaker2: hell, why should the datinâ’ game be different from real life? at least them boys is gonna get somethinâ’ to eat.

speaker1: sailor? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: wouldnâ’t it be fabulous if we somehow stayed in love for the rest of our lives?
speaker2: you think of the weirdest things to say sometimes, peanut. ainâ’t we been doinâ’ a pretty fair job this far?
speaker1: oh, you know exactly what i mean, honey? itâ’d make the future so simple and nice.
speaker2: at pee dee, all you think about is the future, you know? gettinâ’ out? and what youâ’ll do and what youâ’ll think about when youâ’re on the outside again.
speaker1: i just think about things as they come up. i never been much of a planner.
speaker2: it ainâ’t altogether terrible just to let things go along sometimes. lula, i done a few things in my life i ainâ’t too proud of, but iâ’ll tell ya from now on i ainâ’t gonna do nothinâ’ for no good reason. all i know for sure is thereâ’s moreâ’n a few bad ideas runninâ’ around loose out there.
speaker1: you know thereâ’s somethinâ’ i ainâ’t never told you about, sailor, and this hereâ’s a story with the lesson that thereâ’s a right time and a wrong time for things to happen... when i was almost sixteen i got pregnant.
speaker2: musta been a lesson tellinâ’ ya it was the wrong time... what did you do, your mama find out?
speaker1: she got me an abortion...

speaker1: ...from some old doctor with the hairiest nostrils and ears i ever seen. 
speaker1: afterwards... momma says...
speaker1: ...i hope you appreciate my spendinâ’ six hundred dollars, not countinâ’ what it cost us to get here and back... this manâ’s the best abortionist in the south.

speaker1: you tell the boy who knocked you up? 
speaker2: it was my cousin, dell, done it? his folks used to visit with us summers.
speaker1: what happened to him?
speaker2: oh, nothinâ’. i never let on to mama about dell beinâ’ the one. i just flat refused to tell her who the daddy was? i didnâ’t tell dell, neither. he was back home in chattanooga by then, anyhow, and i didnâ’t see the point. somethinâ’ terrible happened to him, though. six months ago.
speaker1: whatâ’s that, peanut?
speaker2: dell disappeared. dell was learninâ’ a hard lesson. what i learned from observinâ’ dell is i think people who are frightened want to disappear. heâ’d startinâ’ behavinâ’ weird? like cominâ’ up to people every fifteen minutes and askinâ’ how they were doinâ’?

speaker1: and just seeminâ’ real spacey and actinâ’ funny. 
speaker2: actinâ’ funny how?
speaker1: well, like mama told me, aunt rootie, dellâ’s mama? she found cockroaches in dellâ’s underwear.

speaker1: one time, aunt rootie caught dell puttinâ’ one big cockroach on his anus? 
speaker2: hell, peanut...
speaker1: one time - real late - like about two thirty a.m.? she found dell up in the black of night all dressed and makinâ’ sandwiches in the kitchen.

speaker1: whatâ’re ya doinâ’? 
speaker2: makinâ’ my lunch!!!
speaker3: dell told her he was makinâ’ his lunch and goinâ’ to work. heâ’s a welder? and she made him go back to bed.

speaker1: ...are followinâ’ him around. 
speaker2: probâ’ly the rain boys from outer space.

speaker1: sound like olâ’ dellâ’s moreâ’n just a little confused, peanut... too bad he couldnâ’t visit that olâ’ wizard of oz and get some good advice. 
speaker2: too bad we all canâ’t, baby... one thing about dell?
speaker1: whatâ’s that?
speaker2: when he was about seventeen, he startinâ’ losinâ’ his hair.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: heâ’s twenty-four now? a year older than you? and must be â’bout bald.
speaker1: thereâ’s worse things that can happen to a man, honey.
speaker2: yeah, i suppose. but you know somethinâ’ baby, hair does make a difference.
speaker2: i sure am glad they didnâ’t give you no prison haircut... gives me somethinâ’ to grab hold of while weâ’re makinâ’ love?

speaker1: letâ’s go dancinâ’, peanut. iâ’m ready. 
speaker2: we gotta be careful, honey, my mamaâ’s gonna have johnnie farragut on us like a duck on a june bug, and heâ’s one clever detective? you know how clever? he once told me that he could find an honest man in washington. my toenails gotta dry first anyways, sailor.
speaker1: one thing puzzles my mind, sugar... youâ’re twenty years old - arenâ’t you ever curious why your mama has this fixation on keepinâ’ us apart? puttinâ’ a detective on us. iâ’ll tell ya lula... well... itâ’s moreâ’n me killinâ’ bob ray lemon...
speaker2: maybe my mama cares for me just a little too much...
speaker1: yeah, maybe...

speaker1: hey, sailor boy, you wanna lulaâ’s mama?... 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, she wants to you.
speaker3: lousy fuckinâ’ homosexuals...
speaker2: what are you, sick?... iâ’m with lula.
speaker1: no... i just wanted to kiss you good-bye... you know too much â’bout little lulaâ’s mom...
speaker2: whattya mean?
speaker1: well, johnnie told me you used to drive for clyde and santos...
speaker2: so?
speaker1: so maybe one night you got a little too close to the fire... and youâ’re gonna get burned, baby... and besides that, youâ’re dâ’you think iâ’d let my little girl go with like you?... why, you belong right here in one of these toilets.
speaker2: youâ’re gonna have to kill me to keep me away from lula.
speaker1: oh, donâ’t worry â’bout that...

speaker1: itâ’s a probâ’lm i donâ’t thinkâ’s gonna go away too soon though... peanut, iâ’m thinkinâ’ of breakinâ’ parole and takinâ’ you out to sunny california. 
speaker2: sailor!
speaker1: you up for that?
speaker2: iâ’d got to the far end of the world for you, baby... you know i would.
speaker1: those toenails dry yet? we got some dancinâ’ to do.

speaker1: ...thatâ’s an awful long way to go, just to get some pussy. 
speaker2: yeah, i had my first taste on that trip to juarez. at that age you still got a lot of energy.
speaker1: you still got plenty energy for me, baby.
speaker1: take a picture, itâ’ll last longer.
speaker3: oh yeah?
speaker1: iâ’ll slap those eyes right outta your head.
speaker1: sorry, baby... whenâ’s the first time you done it with a girl who wasnâ’t hookinâ’?
speaker2: maybe two, three months after juarez. i was visitinâ’ my cousin, junior train, in savannah, and we were at some kidâ’s house whose parents were out of town. a girl comes up to me that was real tall, taller than me.

speaker1: whatâ’d you say to her? 
speaker2: told her my name. then she said somethinâ’ like, â‘itâ’s so noisy down here. why donâ’t we go upstairs so we can hear ourselves?â’ she turned around and led the way. i knew i had an important lesson to learn that day.

speaker1: oh, baby. what a bad boy you are! 
speaker2: thatâ’s just what she said. i had a with a capital â“o.â” i went to kiss her but she broke off laughinâ’ and ran down the hallway. i found her lyinâ’ on a bed in a room filled with assault weapons and penthouse magazines. she was a wild chick. she was wearinâ’ bright orange pants with kind of spanish lookinâ’ lacy black stripes down the sides. you know, them kind that doesnâ’t go all the way down your leg?
speaker1: you mean like pedal pushers?
speaker2: i guess.

speaker1: youâ’re excitinâ’ me, honey. whatâ’d she do? 
speaker2: her face was half-pushed into the pillow, and she looked back over her shoulder at me and said, â‘i wonâ’t you. donâ’t ask me to you.â’
speaker1: poor baby. she donâ’t know what she missed. what color hair she have?
speaker2: sorta brown, blonde, i guess. but dig this, sweetie. then she turns over, peels off them orange pants, and spreads her legs real wide and says to me...

speaker1: honey! you moreâ’n sorta got what you come for... you better rum me back to the hotel, baby... you got me hotterâ’n georgia asphalt. 
speaker2: say no more... but go easy on me, sweetheart... tomorrow we got alotta drivinâ’ to do. hotterâ’n georgia asphalt?

speaker1: iâ’ll drop mama a postcard from somewhere. i mean, i donâ’t want her to worry no moreâ’n necessary. 
speaker2: what do you mean by necessary? sheâ’s probâ’ly already called the cops, my parole officer, her p.i. boyfriend johnnie farragut.
speaker1: i suppose so. she knew i was bound to see you soon as you was sprung, but i donâ’t figure she counted on us takinâ’ off together like this... i guess this means youâ’re breakinâ’ parole, then?
speaker2: you guess? my parole was broke two hundred miles back when we burnt portagee county.
speaker1: whatâ’ll it be like in california, sailor, do you think? i hear it donâ’t rain much there.
speaker2: you got about six more big states to go before we find out.
speaker1: we got through two states already.
speaker2: that donâ’t smell like a more.
speaker1: it ainâ’t. itâ’s part of the lessons of life. i picked me up a pack of vantages before we left the cape?
speaker2: they sure do stink.
speaker1: yeah, i guess, but - and hereâ’s the lesson part - they ainâ’t supposed to be so bad for you.
speaker2: you ainâ’t gonna begin worryinâ’ about whatâ’s bad for you at this hour, are you, sugar? i mean, here you are crossinâ’ state lines with a a- number one certified murderer.
speaker1: manslaughterer, honey, not murderer.
speaker2: okay, manslaughterer whoâ’s broke his parole and got in mind nothinâ’ but immoral purposes farâ’s youâ’re concerned.
speaker1: thank the lord. well, you ainâ’t let me down yet, sailor. thatâ’s moreâ’n i can say for the rest of the world?
speaker2: you please me, too, peanut.

speaker1: life is a and then you marry one. 
speaker2: what kinda trash talk is that?
speaker1: what it says on the bumper sticker up front. on that pickup.
speaker2: thatâ’s disgustinâ’. those kinda sentiments shouldnâ’t be allowed out in public. is this biloxi yet?
speaker1: almost. i figure we should find us a place to stay and then go eat.
speaker2: got anyplace special in mind?
speaker1: we oughta stay somewhere outta the way. not in no holidays or ramadas or motel six. if johnnie farragutâ’s on our trail heâ’ll check those first.
speaker2: how about that one? the host of the old south hotel.
speaker1: looks more like the ghost of the old south, but weâ’ll try her.

speaker1: i h-a-t-e hotel bedspreads. they donâ’t hardly never get washed, and i donâ’t like the idea of lyinâ’ on other peopleâ’s dirt. 
speaker2: come look at this.
speaker1: whatâ’s that, honey?
speaker2: there ainâ’t no water in the swimminâ’ pool. just a dead tree fell in, probâ’ly from beinâ’ struck by lightninâ’.
speaker1: itâ’s huge. this musta been a grand old place at one time.
speaker2: letâ’s get fed, sweetheart. the lightâ’s fadinâ’ fast.

speaker1: marcello santos is making a phone call. 
speaker2: hello there, mr. reindeer... marcello santos speaking.

speaker1: m-i-ss-i-ss-i-pp-i... you can almost hear that jazz blowinâ’ up from the big n.o. 
speaker2: lula... i learned somethinâ’ interestinâ’ today on a science show i heard on the radio... how leeches is cominâ’ back into style.
speaker1: say what? honestly, sugar, you can talk more sometimes?
speaker2: got you a pack of mores again, huh?
speaker1: yeah, itâ’s a real problem for me, sailor, you know? when i went in that drugstore by the restaurant in biloxi? i saw â’em by the register and the girl throw â’em in. iâ’m not big on resistinâ’. so what about a leech?
speaker2: heard on the radio how doctors is usinâ’ leeches again, just in old times. you know, when even barbers used â’em?
speaker1: i got one on me at lake lanier. lifeguard poured salt on it and it dropped off. felt awful. he was a cute boy, though, so it was almost worth it.
speaker2: yeah, well listen to this... radio said back in the 1920s a i-talian doctor figured out that if, say, a fella got his nose cut off or bit off in, say, a barfight or somethinâ’, theyâ’d sew one of his forearms to his nose for a few weeks... then put leeches on it.

speaker1: sailor? you expect me to believe a manâ’d be goinâ’ around with a arm sewed to his nose? 
speaker2: how they used to do it. course they got more sophisticated ways now. radio said the chinese, i think it is, figured a better idea is by insertinâ’ a balloon in the forehead and lettinâ’ it hand down on the nose.
speaker1: sailor ripley! you stop! youâ’re makinâ’ this up and i ainâ’t gonna sit for it!
speaker2: honest, lula. i probâ’ly ainâ’t precisely got all the facts straight, but itâ’s about what they said.
speaker1: honey, weâ’re goinâ’ to bed now and itâ’s time to change the subject.

speaker1: weâ’re about dry bones, sweetheart. we donâ’t wanna have to push this â“birdâ” into new orleans. 
speaker2: we sure donâ’t, honey... get me a mounds?

speaker1: sorry, gentlemen. iâ’m â’most finished on my shoppinâ’ here. 
speaker2: this be it?
speaker1: yâ’all take american express?
speaker2: yessir.
speaker1: then lemme throw in a couple more things.
speaker1: pussycats gotta eat, too.
speaker1: iâ’d just soon have a paper bag rather than a plastic one, if itâ’s same to you.
speaker2: we donâ’t have no paper bags.
speaker1: hello... yeah, mama, iâ’m on my way... thanks for waitinâ’, gentlemen.
speaker3: all i wantâ’s ten bucks regular. oh yeah, and a mounds bar.
speaker3: i ainâ’t got my american express card with me, so i gotta use cash. hope thatâ’s okay.
speaker4: sailor goes back to the car.
speaker5: that took long enough. you forget my mounds?
speaker3: i really do think the country done changed just a little while i was away, peanut.
speaker5: you got to keep an eye on it. thatâ’s sure.

speaker1: do you mind if we share this table? ... the others, they are occupied. 
speaker2: alright... by all means. make yourselves at home.
speaker3: muchas gracias.
speaker1: my name is reginald san pedro sula. but please do call me reggie. this is my friend, who we call drop shadow. he is always with me.
speaker2: johnnie farragut. pleased to meet ya.
speaker1: you are from new orleans, senor farragut?
speaker2: johnnie, please. nope. charlotte, north carolina. here on business.
speaker3: mr. san pedro sula is from honduras.
speaker1: do you know honduras, johnny?
speaker2: only that itâ’s supposed to be a pretty poor sight since the hurricane came through last year.
speaker1: yes, thatâ’s so. but there is not much to destroy.
speaker3: no big buildings like in new orleans.
speaker2: whattaya do there?
speaker1: oh, many things...
speaker3: mr. san pedro sulaâ’s got an appliance shop.
speaker1: but i am also with the government.
speaker2: in what capacity?
speaker1: in many capacities.
speaker3: mr. san pedro sula is with the secret service.
speaker2: general osvaldo tamarindo y ramirez.
speaker1: he is my sponsor. the general is the head of the secret police of honduras.
speaker3: mr. san pedro sula is one of his operatives.
speaker1: that is my permiso.
speaker3: mr. san pedro sulaâ’s permit to kill.
speaker1: only if necessary, of course, and only in my own country.
speaker2: of course.
speaker3: mr. san pedro sulaâ’s authorized to carry a .45.
speaker1: united states marine issue, before they made the unfortunate switch to the less dependable nine millimeters. i have it here, in my briefcase.
speaker2: why are you in new orleans? if you donâ’t mind my askinâ’.
speaker1: certainly not. we are here only briefly, in fact, until this evening, when we fly to austin, texas to visit a friend of mine who is an agent for the cia.
speaker3: he wants to take mr. san pedro sula and me bass fishing.
speaker1: we are in the same businesses and also we are fishermen.
speaker2: itâ’s been a real pleasure. i wish you both buena suerte wherever you go.
speaker1: the same to you. if you are in honduras, come to the bay islands and visit us. the hondurans are great friends of the american people. but i have a joke for you before i go. if a liberal, a socialist, and a communist all jumped off the roof of the empire state building at the same time, which one of them would hit the ground first?
speaker2: i couldnâ’t say, which one?
speaker3: who cares?

speaker1: i love it when your eyes get wild, honey. they light up all blue almost and little white parachutes pop out of â’em. oh, sailor youâ’re so aware of what goes on with me? i mean, you pay attention. and i swear, you got the sweetest cock. sometimes itâ’s like itâ’s talkinâ’ to me when youâ’re inside? like itâ’s got a voice all itâ’s own. you get right on me. 
speaker2: you really are dangerously cute, honey. i gotta admit it.
speaker2: letâ’s head out into the crazy world of new orleans... i gotta get somethinâ’ to eat.

speaker1: my nameâ’s george kovich. bet youâ’ve heard of me. 
speaker2: donâ’t know that i have... should i know about you for anythinâ’ in particular?
speaker1: was in all the papers three years ago. iâ’m seventy-six, was only seventy- three then. had a business in buffalo, new york, called rats with wings. killed pigeons for anyone who wanted â’em killed.
speaker3: why were you killinâ’ pigeons, mr. kovich? were you in the extermination business?
speaker1: no, maâ’am. i was a housepainter, in the union forty-one years. iâ’m retired now, livinâ’ with my sister, ida. ida moved down here twenty-five years ago, married an oil man named smoltz, ed smoltz. heâ’s dead now, so itâ’s just me and ida. i sold my house and moved down after the city of buffalo put me out of business. hell, rww was doinâ’ them a service, and they charged me with endangerinâ’ the public.
speaker3: whatâ’s wrong with pigeons, mr. kovich?
speaker1: theyâ’re useless pests. iâ’ve shot hundreds of â’em...

speaker1: sheâ’s stone deaf but the racket the pigeons made drove earl crazy. he could hear â’em even with the tv on. he owned a bar thirty years, the boilermaker, on wyoming street. earlâ’s roof was a favorite spot for pigeons. they lit there day and night. 
speaker2: if your neighbors didnâ’t mind, howâ’d you get put out of business?
speaker1: woman drivinâ’ down the street spotted me with on a roof with my rifle. she called the police and they came over and arrested me. thought i was a sniper! boys at the vfw loved that one. cops didnâ’t understand about the pigeons, the damage they do to personal property. i used to complain to the city but they never lifted a finger. i was gonna put out poison, but i was afraid somebodyâ’s cat would eat it. hell, i had six cats myself. so i used the .22 because it didnâ’t make much noise and the ammo was cheap.
speaker2: what happened on the charges?
speaker1: guilty on a reduced charge. hundred dollar fine and ordered to desist. pigeons carry diseases and muss up the place. you seen it. plain filth.
speaker1: itâ’s a serious situation. not like the turks and the armenians, maybe, or the arabs and the jews, but i want people to remember me and what iâ’ve done and pick up where i left off. somebody had to make a move. it was nice meetinâ’ you folks.
speaker2: what lesson do get outta that story, lula?
speaker3: itâ’s just another case, sailor.
speaker2: whatâ’s that, peanut?
speaker3: one person thinks heâ’s doinâ’ somethinâ’ good and everâ’body else gets upset about it.
speaker2: ainâ’t it the way...

speaker1: sailor?... sailor, honey? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: ever imagine what itâ’d be like to get eaten alive by a wild beast?... sometimes i think it would be the biggest thrill?
speaker2: my it better be, darlinâ’, cause itâ’d be the last... what time is it?
speaker1: shhhhh... itâ’s four oâ’clock... that womanâ’s laugh the other day had somethinâ’ to do with this feelinâ’? ... like beinâ’ ripped apart by a gorilla, maybe... grabbed sudden and pulled apart real quick by a real powerful one.
speaker2: lula, sometimes i gotta admit, you come up with some weird thoughts...
speaker1: anythinâ’ interestinâ’ in the world come out of somebodyâ’s weird thoughts, sailor. you tell me sailor, who could come up with like weâ’re seeinâ’ these days?
speaker2: you got me, peanut.
speaker1: you certain?
speaker2: i ainâ’t never met anyone come close to you, sugar.
speaker1: recall the time we was sittinâ’ one night behind the confederate soldier? leaninâ’ against it. and you took your hand and put it on your heart and you said, â‘you feel it beatinâ’ in there, lula?... get used to it, cause it belongs to you now.â’ dâ’you recall that?
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: i was hopinâ’ you would. i know that night by heart. sometimes, honey? i think itâ’s the best night of my life.

speaker1: i really do think itâ’s the best night of my life. 
speaker2: we didnâ’t do nothinâ’ special i can remember. just talked, is all.
speaker1: talkinâ’s good. long as you got the other? iâ’m a big believer in talkinâ’, case you ainâ’t noticed.
speaker2: too bad they donâ’t give an award for talkinâ’... youâ’d win first prize.
speaker1: you think so, baby? does my talkinâ’ bother you, honey?
speaker2: no, i like gettinâ’ up around four a.m. and talkinâ’ bout wild animals ... though you woke me up this time in the middle of a dream. i kinda wish i didnâ’t remember it. up at pee dee, i couldnâ’t remember any of my dreams.
speaker1: what was this one?
speaker2: it wasnâ’t no fun, lula. the wind was blowinâ’ super-hard and i wasnâ’t dressed warm. only instead of freezinâ’, i was sweatinâ’ strong.

speaker1: boy, sweetie, this is weird, okay. 
speaker2: i know. i kept walkinâ’, i headed for your house, only it wasnâ’t your house, really. you let me in only you werenâ’t real pleased to see me. you kept askinâ’, â‘whyâ’d you come to see me now? why now?â’ like itâ’d been a long time since weâ’d seen each ohter.
speaker1: oh, baby, what an idea. iâ’d always be happy to see you, no matter what.
speaker2: i know, peanut. but it wasnâ’t all like you were so unhappy i was there, just you were upset. my beinâ’ there was upsettinâ’ to you. you had some kids there, little kids, and i guess youâ’d got married and your husband was cominâ’ home any minute.

speaker1: sometimes dreams just donâ’t mean nothinâ’... stuff comes into your mind and you donâ’t have no control over, you know? anyways, dreams ainâ’t no odder than real life. 
speaker2: well, i ainâ’t upset about it, darlinâ’. just give me an odd feelinâ’ there a minute, is all.
speaker1: take a bite of lula.

speaker1: hey!!!... johnnie farragut. how are you, my man. 
speaker2: real good, chet... itâ’s been awhile.
speaker1: everythinâ’s relative. whereâ’s that marietta pace fortune? you two didnâ’t split up, i hope.
speaker2: no... sheâ’s fine. back home.
speaker1: whatâ’ll it be? the regular? black label?
speaker2: set one up.
speaker1: so who you out sleuthinâ’ for now?...
speaker2: actually, iâ’m lookinâ’ for mariettaâ’s daughter, lula. her and â’er beau took off the other day. mariettaâ’s real upset about it.
speaker1: hell, that rings a bell. someone told me somebody lookinâ’ like her was at the nothinâ’ fancy yesterday.
speaker2: sounds right... iâ’ll check it out.
speaker1: you hitched yet?
speaker2: no sir...
speaker1: itâ’s none of my business, but when are you and marietta gonna tie the knot? i always wondered why you never did.
speaker2: not for lack of love, i can tell ya that.
speaker1: thatâ’s what i mean... always looked like you was just knocked out in love... was real nice to see.
speaker2: iâ’ll tell ya though, itâ’s cominâ’ up to the time when marietta and me might just set up house together and settle down... i think that timeâ’s cominâ’ up right soon. but like you said, everythinâ’s realtive.

speaker1: letâ’s get outta here... i suddenly got a funny feelinâ’ about this place. feelinâ’ all that voodoo... 
speaker2: gotta hex from a voodoo?
speaker1: who do?
speaker2: you do.
speaker1: oh my itâ’s johnnie... duck down!... get goinâ’!
speaker2: where?
speaker1: never mind where... get outta here...
speaker2: iâ’m goinâ’.

speaker1: ainâ’t love wonderful?... 
speaker2: whatâ’s that?
speaker1: i said, ainâ’t love wonderful?
speaker1: good luck to you kids.

speaker1: you think he saw us? 
speaker2: who knows, baby?
speaker1: he was sittinâ’ there havinâ’ a beignet at the cafe du monde. do you think he saw us?
speaker2: lula, darlinâ’... makes no difference anyway... weâ’re outta here.

speaker1: lula and sailor are motoring along. 
speaker2: sweetheart, keep your up. weâ’re in jimmy swaggart country.
speaker3: sure you wanna do this? might be a way they could track us.
speaker2: heâ’s just a regular guyâ’t needs help, honey. look at him.
speaker4: thanks a lot. i been standinâ’ out there off and on for two hours, ha-ha! since noon about, ha-ha! cops catch ya hitchinâ’ on a interstate around here they throw ya on a county road crew for a week, less you can pay the ticket, ha-ha! which i ainâ’t got, ha-ha!
speaker2: my nameâ’s sailor, and this hereâ’s lula. whatâ’s yours?
speaker4: marvin deloach. but everâ’body calls me roach, ha-ha! roach deloach, ha-ha!
speaker3: you always make that strange little funny laugh when you talk?
speaker4: ainâ’t laughinâ’, ha-ha!
speaker2: what you got in the box?
speaker4: my dogs, ha-ha!
speaker4: iâ’m headed to alaska, ha-ha! these dogs is gonna be my sled team, ha-ha!
speaker3: this guyâ’s crazy.
speaker2: where you from, roach?
speaker4: if you mean where i was born, it was belzoni, missiâ’ppi, ha-ha! but i been brought up in baton rouge.
speaker3: why you goinâ’ to alaska? and whereâ’d you get them puppies? they look sick.
speaker4: i saw this movie on tv, ha-ha! the call of the wild. i ainâ’t never seen snow, ha-ha! i got these dogs at the pound. nobody wanted â’em, ha-ha! everâ’body here got theirself pit bulls or some kinda hounds. iâ’m gonna feed these boys good so theyâ’ll be big and powerful and they can pull me real fast through the snow, ha-ha!
speaker3: sailor! stop! stop the car now!
speaker3: iâ’m sorry, but i canâ’t take this. roach, or whatever your name is, you come out of there with them dogs this instant!
speaker3: iâ’m truly sorry? iâ’m truly sorry, roach. but ainâ’t gonna make it to alaska? least not any part of the way with us. youâ’d best find a party to take care of those dogs proper, before they all die? and, if you donâ’t mind my sayinâ’ so? you could most certainly use some serious lookinâ’ after yourself, startinâ’ with a bath!
speaker3: drive.
speaker2: you donâ’t feel you was a little hard on the guy, honey?
speaker3: i know youâ’re thinkinâ’ that i got moreâ’n some of my mama in me? well, i couldnâ’t help it. sailor, i really couldnâ’t. iâ’m sorry for that guy, but when he pulled that drippinâ’ hunk of awful-smellinâ’ meat out of his pocket? i near barfed. and them poor diseased puppies!
speaker2: just part of life on the road, peanut.
speaker3: do me a favor, sailor? donâ’t pick up no more hitchers, okay?

speaker1: no, marietta, i havenâ’t found â’em. 
speaker2: this is the kinda mistake can take a hinduâ’s lifetime to unfix... you better get a move on, johnnie, before that boy got her holdinâ’ down a memphis streetcorner and shootinâ’ dope up her arms.
speaker1: really, marietta, you got more scenarios swimminâ’ around in your brain than carter got pills. try to take it easy. go over to myrtle beach for a few days.
speaker2: iâ’m stayinâ’ right here by the phone until you find lula, then iâ’m cominâ’ to get her. you call soonâ’s you got somethinâ’, even if itâ’s three in the a.m.
speaker1: i will, marietta. goodbye now.
speaker1: i thought you two were in austin, texas. or takes-us, as they say in these parts.
speaker3: we were. now mr. san pedro sula and i are on our way back to utila, in the morning.
speaker4: would you like to enjoy a martini with us?
speaker1: why not? how was the fishinâ’?
speaker4: i think they are too serious, these american fishermen. in honduras, we are not so concerned with the method. reggie orders martinis for the three of them.
speaker1: so, itâ’s back to the islands.
speaker3: yes. mr. san pedro sula spoke yesterday to his son, archibald leach san pedro sula, who is named after cary grant, and he told them there was a shooting.
speaker4: teddy roosevelt, one of the local shrimp boat captains is in jail now. these people are friends of mine, so i must return and find out what happened.
speaker1: this island of yours sounds like a kind of unpredictable place.
speaker4: it has its moments of uncertainty.
speaker3: but how are you finding new orleans, senor farragut?
speaker1: call me johnnie... n.o. has always been a good town to sit around in.
speaker4: i can tell you are an intelligent man, johnnie. one difference between your country and mine is that in the islands, it does not pay to reveal oneâ’s intelligence... others may use what they perceive against us...
speaker4: hasta siempre.
speaker1: hasta siempre.
speaker4: do you know how it came about that copper wire was invented in scotland?
speaker1: howâ’s that?
speaker3: two scotsmen were fighting over a penny.
speaker1: i gotta admit, you guys are two in four dozen.
speaker4: the real joke is we never went fishing, but weâ’re still fishing.

speaker1: i wouldnâ’t mind a little night life. 
speaker2: hard to tell whatâ’s shakinâ’ in a place like this, honey. you donâ’t want to be walkinâ’ in the wrong door.
speaker1: maybe thereâ’s a place we could hear some music. i feel like dancinâ’.

speaker1: someone up here might know somethinâ’. 
speaker2: gas?
speaker1: got enough, thanks. weâ’re lookinâ’ for a place has some music, where we can maybe do some dancinâ’ - get somethinâ’ to eat, too. anything like that around here?
speaker3: cornbreadâ’s. they got western.
speaker2: no food, though, â’cept bar nibbles.
speaker4: how about speed metal?
speaker4: any kinda rockâ’nâ’roll, honey.
speaker3: thereâ’s a boogie joint just about a mile straight out lafitte here. but thatâ’s a black place mostly.
speaker2: mostly black though in that boogie place.
speaker1: whatâ’s the name of it?
speaker2: club zanzibar.
speaker1: you say itâ’s straight ahead a mile?
speaker2: about. where lafitte crosses over galvez highway. state road 86.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: you ready for this? 
speaker2: weâ’ll find out in a hurry.

speaker1: come on. 
speaker2: this is a friendly place, son. you folks just relax and have a nice time.
speaker1: you got yourself a deal.
speaker3: thatâ’s a real jacket... by that, i mean a real stupid jacket.
speaker4: this is a snakeskin jacket, and for me it represents a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
speaker3: fuckinâ’ honky cracker mumbo jumbo.
speaker1: iâ’ll be if iâ’m leavinâ’. that band is too good?
speaker4: uh huh.
speaker1: you notice that woman when we come in? the white woman sittinâ’ by herself?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker1: well, she ainâ’t talked to nobody and ainâ’t nobody spoke to her that i could tell. what you make of that?
speaker4: honey, we beinâ’ strangers here and all, this is the kinda place we donâ’t want to make nothinâ’ of nothinâ’.
speaker1: you think sheâ’s pretty?
speaker4: i tend to like â’em with a little more meat on the bones. face ainâ’t bad, though. lula gets quiet and on her beer bottle.
speaker4: whatâ’s wrong, sweetheart? somethinâ’ botherinâ’ you?
speaker1: mama. i been thinkinâ’ about her.
speaker4: moreâ’n likely.
speaker1: i want to call her and tell her iâ’m okay. that weâ’re okay.
speaker4: i ainâ’t so sure itâ’s a great idea, but thatâ’s up to you. just donâ’t tell her where we are.
speaker1: pardon me? yâ’all got a phone here i can use?
speaker2: canâ’t you read?
speaker1: back in a bit.

speaker1: i have a collect call from lula fortune. will you accept? 
speaker2: of course! lula? where are you?
speaker3: iâ’m fine, mama. i just wanted to tell you not to worry.
speaker2: why, how could i not worry? not knowinâ’ whatâ’s happeninâ’ to you or where you are? are you with that boy?
speaker3: if you mean sailor, mama, yes i am.
speaker2: are you cominâ’ back here soon, lula?
speaker3: need me for what, mama? iâ’m perfectly fine, and safe, too.
speaker2: you in a dance hall or somethinâ’?
speaker3: just a place.
speaker2: really, lula, this ainâ’t right!
speaker3: right?! mama, was it right for you to sic johnnie farragut on us? how could you do that?
speaker2: did you run into johnnie in new orleans? lula, are you in new orleans?
speaker3: no, mama, iâ’m in mexico, and weâ’re about to get on an airplane to argentina!
speaker2: argentina! lula, youâ’re outta your mind. now you just tell me where you are and iâ’ll come for you. i wonâ’t say nothinâ’ to the police about sailor, i promise. he can do what he wants, i donâ’t care.
speaker3: mama, iâ’m hanginâ’ up this phone now.
speaker2: no, baby, donâ’t! can i send you somethinâ’? you runninâ’ low on money? iâ’ll wire you some money if you tell me where you are.
speaker3: i ainâ’t that mama. sailor and i been on a crime spree? knockinâ’ off convenience stores all across the south? ainâ’t you read about it?
speaker2: lula? i love you, baby. i just want you to be all right.
speaker3: i am all right, mama. thatâ’s why i called, to let you know. i gotta go.
speaker2: call me again soon? iâ’ll be waitinâ’ by the phone.
speaker3: donâ’t be crazy, mama. take care of yourself. lula hangs up.

speaker1: lula runs out. sailor follows. 
speaker2: i was just wastinâ’ time, peanut, till you come back.
speaker3: itâ’s me whoâ’s wastinâ’ time, sailor, beinâ’ with you.
speaker2: honey, iâ’m sorry. it wasnâ’t nothinâ’. come on and get up and weâ’ll take off.
speaker3: leave me be for a minute? mama gets all insane and then i see you practicinâ’ your individuality and personal freedom with some oil-town tramp. how you figure iâ’m gonna feel?
speaker2: told you not to call your mama.

speaker1: santos... if you get this message, call me right away. itâ’s marietta... i donâ’t know, santos... maybe this is all not... call me. 
speaker1: johnnie! at last! i thought you was never gonna come back to your room.

speaker1: i got some news, marietta. lula and sailor been here. they checked out of the hotel brazil on frechman street yesterday. 
speaker2: listen, johnnie, lula just called me. she knew you were in n.o., so they left the city.
speaker1: did she tell you where she was callinâ’ from?
speaker2: no, but my guess is theyâ’re headed west, so probâ’ly texas. their money must be runninâ’ low. i donâ’t think sailor had much to begin with, if any, and lula took the six hundred she had saved in the cherokee thrift.
speaker1: howâ’d she sound? was she doinâ’ okay?
speaker2: could she be doinâ’ okay, johnnie? sheâ’s tryinâ’ to prove somethinâ’ to me, thatâ’s all. lula ainâ’t doinâ’ no moreâ’n showinâ’ off, defyinâ’ me... johnnie, iâ’ve done somethinâ’ bad...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i wonâ’t tell you over the phone. iâ’m cominâ’ to n.o. and iâ’ll tell you then.
speaker1: marietta, i was just gonna leave and see if i could pick up their trail.
speaker2: no, you wait right there for me... iâ’ll be on the piedmont flight tomorrow at seven. meet me at the airport.
speaker1: iâ’ll meet you, marietta, if thatâ’s what you want, but iâ’m against it.
speaker2: seven tomorrow eveninâ’. se can eat at galatoireâ’s. fix it.

speaker1: how much we got left, honey? 
speaker2: under a hundred.
speaker1: you want to stick around here, sailor?
speaker2: not in houston. weâ’d be better off in some place more out of the way.
speaker1: you want me to drive for a stretch?
speaker2: thatâ’d be good, lula.

speaker1: come in, montgomery, alabama. 
speaker2: artie? that you, artie?
speaker1: yes, maâ’am. whatâ’s on your almost- perfect mind this evening?
speaker2: how ya feelinâ’, artie? i heard you wasnâ’t doinâ’ too well recent.
speaker1: iâ’m fine, thank you. i had a cardiac infarction but iâ’m on a new diet and exercising regularly. iâ’ve never felt better.
speaker2: well, thatâ’s so good to hear, artie. you know some of us depend on you down this way. youâ’re so entertaininâ’ and you get so many interestinâ’ guests.
speaker1: thank you. itâ’s listeners such as yourself who made me want to get up out of that hospital bed and back into the studio as fast as i could.
speaker3: how could anyone listen to this crap?
speaker4: ...live in exchange for sexual favors. police said they have identified and questioned at least four girls, all asians twelve to fifteen years old, who have been living in the north houston warehouse with a vietnamese pimp since february. the girls are being treated as victims, said police sergeant amos milburn. â‘these are really just children,â’ he said, â‘but theyâ’ve been exposed to a lot already.
speaker3: iâ’ll bet.
speaker4: in international news, india plans to release crocodiles in the ganges, the holy hindu river in which millions of people bathe annually, to scavenge for corpses, authorities said.

speaker1:  
speaker2: the indian official who supplied this information did so only on condition of anonymity. the uttar pradesh state authorities last october released five hundred turtles...

speaker1: whatâ’s that, peanut? 
speaker2: i canâ’t take no more of this radio... i ainâ’t never heard so much concentrated weirdness in my life, sailor ripley, you find me some dancinâ’ music right this minute... i mean it!!
speaker2: the worldâ’s gettinâ’ worse, i think, sailor. and it donâ’t sound like thereâ’s much we can do about it, neither.
speaker1: this ainâ’t news, sweetheart. i hate to tell ya.

speaker1: hereâ’s your key. mr. farragutâ’s already taken care of everything. i hope youâ’ll be comfortable, mrs. fortune. youâ’re in room 351 right down the hall from mr. farragut. 
speaker2: i have a phone call for you, mrs. fortune ... at the phone by the fireplace. please wait for it to ring.
speaker3: yes?...

speaker1: i got your message... but you went right to johnnie, didnâ’t you?... i canâ’t trust you, - not for one minute... naughty girl... sailor and lula are headed west, and guess what? thereâ’s no turning back. 
speaker2: no...
speaker1: my very best to johnnie... bless his soul.

speaker1: who was that?... who knowâ’s your here? 
speaker2: iâ’ll be if that wasnâ’t a wrong number?

speaker1: little miss muffet sat on a tuffet, eating her curds and whey... along came a spider and sat down beside her, and extended his hand out to play. 
speaker1: oh dear... another miss dull
speaker1: when i gave you the silver dollar i forgot to give you the contents of this envelope. they are to be returned. show it just before the deed...

speaker1: what is it, johnnie? 
speaker2: just some guys i met here... i keep seeinâ’ â’em... now tell me...
speaker1: johnnie, i canâ’t tell you, honey. is there anyway we can get on the road tonight? weâ’ve got to find them kids.
speaker2: somethinâ’ was upsettinâ’ you bad last night, and you wanted to tell me and i figured you wanted to tell me soâ’s i could help...
speaker1: i did, honey, but that was last night... letâ’s just find those two kids before itâ’s too late.
speaker2: honey, i have to ask you this...
speaker1: no, baby... i wouldnâ’ta done that without tellinâ’ you.
speaker2: that pucinski...
speaker1: who?... uncle pooch?...
speaker2: yeah... the one that introduced santos to you and clyde.
speaker1: johnnie... thatâ’s the past... we gotta get on to our future, sugar!
speaker2: all i have to do is grab my suitcase, and iâ’m ready. youâ’re lucky cause i happen to love night drivinâ’.
speaker1: letâ’s head for texas and see if we can pick up the trail.
speaker2: did i tell ya itâ’s great to see ya again?
speaker1: this â’bout the fifth time?

speaker1: iâ’ll pack my things and meet you downstairs. 
speaker2: and to think what coulda happened in that king-sized bed tonight...
speaker1: you wonâ’t of missed much.
speaker2: see ya downstairs.

speaker1: iâ’m afraid his car is gone, mrs. 
speaker2: i donâ’t understand this... i donâ’t understand this one bit. he was supposed to meet me right her in this lobby. somethinâ’ bad has happened - i jus know it.
speaker1: perhaps we should call a local law enforcement officer.
speaker2: no!!! thatâ’s the last thing we need... a buncha cops runninâ’ around.
speaker3: iâ’m sorry... but i have overlooked this. iâ’m truly sorry, maâ’am.
speaker4: gone fishing with a friend - maybe buffalo hunting. johnnie.
speaker2: oh what does that mean?
speaker1: iâ’m sure i wouldnâ’t know, maâ’am ...
speaker2: and jus when my babyâ’s out on some texas road with a killer.
speaker2: santos... whereâ’s j-j-johnnie?
speaker5: shhhhhh... thank you, gentlemen... iâ’ll look after her now...
speaker2: santos... whatâ’s happeninâ’ here?
speaker5: hey... stop the nervous cry-baby routine... youâ’re my girl now... santos is gonna wipe away those tears and make you happy... come on, letâ’s get outta here.
speaker2: where we goinâ’?
speaker5: got word the kids are moving through texas... i think an ending is being arranged there... come on, lemme see a smile.
speaker2: please santos... whereâ’s johnnie?

speaker1: johnnie, you take a good look at me, baby, cause you gonna hafâ’ta watch close to know when we do it to ya... 
speaker2: there i slap that face - pay attention - otherwise we hafâ’ta work it all night... too much fun for us - you see what i mean? now watch me how i touch a bottle and you count how many times.
speaker1: you see, johnnie. i toucha number one bottle once, i toucha number two bottle once, and i touch your face. this is a game we love to play. i get hot already... now you meet second mr. killer... does he fish or donâ’t he?
speaker3: hey, johnnie... reggie - you remember reggie, donâ’t ya? look what i caught. iâ’m gettinâ’ hot too, mama.
speaker1: now johnnie... we want to feel the feelinâ’... feel the feelinâ’... we be gettinâ’ up close to you, fucka, then we go out away ... noâ’ mally we touch two bottles - both bottle bâ’fore cominâ’ back and touchinâ’ you... this mean you okay fo awhile... if we go out away, and we touch only one bottle bâ’fore cominâ’ back and touchinâ’ you - you gonna hear a click from a gun bâ’hind you and then itâ’s gonna be bout ten seconds... remember that number ten - then thatâ’s when the end come... what end i talk â’bout johnnie? - i talk about the end, fucka- that head will go every partâ’a this room... i talk â’bout no mo johnnie... i think you understand now - we play game.
speaker3: i canâ’t stop her, johnnie... she getâ’s me too hot doinâ’ this... iâ’m gonna be right here, but iâ’m gonna stand right behind ya with this big olâ’ gun here...
speaker4: thatâ’s a marine issue. it goes off somethinâ’ terrible - you wanna see?
speaker1: you hear click?
speaker3: hell, itâ’s even worse than i remember... wait a minute...
speaker1: okay, gimmee â’nother kiss, reggie bâ’fore i ya right now...

speaker1: reggie goes back behind johnnie quick. 
speaker2: i go out now... i toucha one bottle... reggie... i toucha two bottle... i come back, i touch johnnie... ahhhhh ... i touch myself... ha!... now i go out - i toucha one bottle... do i touch second bottle?... i go now and touch... oh oh... okay... this time i toucha second bottle... i go back, i touch johnnie... then i go back - i kiss reggie with big gun... oh reggie done got two big guns...

speaker1: i forgot to show you this. the gentlemen that gave this to me said youâ’d recognize it. said he wanted itâ’d be â’bout the last thing you ever saw in this life. 
speaker2: oh oh santos... oh marietta ... are you in on this?... oh god!!!

speaker1: one ... two ... three ... four ... five ... gettinâ’ too fuckinâ’ hot, reggie... feelinâ’ myseâ’f ... six ... seven ... eight... 
speaker1: nine...

speaker1: sure is a big deal round here... alamo road, alamo street, alamo square, alamo buildinâ’, alamo alamo. they ainâ’t forgettinâ’ about it in a hurry. thatâ’s the thing â’bout memory? some things you wish you could forget... whatâ’s troublinâ’ you, sugar? 
speaker2: you know, lula, i never told you what all i was doinâ’ before i met you.
speaker1: i just figured you was out beinâ’ mr. cool...
speaker2: not exactly, sugar... one reason weâ’re in all the trouble weâ’re in right now is cause of what i was doinâ’... i tried to tell you this before...
speaker1: youâ’re scarinâ’ me, baby.
speaker2: well, thereâ’s a good side as well as a bad side to it... the good side is i knew your daddy, and i thought clyde was a good olâ’ guy...
speaker1: you knew my daddy?
speaker2: yes i did... i sure did... the bad side of it is i did some drivinâ’ for a man named marcello santos...
speaker1: oh
speaker2: i quit workinâ’ for â’im, but just before i did, i ended up one night at a house... i donâ’t know what it is they all think i saw that night, but i was just sittinâ’ out in the car till the whole place went up in flames.
speaker1: sailor... thatâ’s the night my daddy died.
speaker2: i know, sugar... but while the place was burninâ’... before santos came out - i pitched some rocks at the second floor windows case anyone was upstairs sleepinâ’... afterwards... when i met you, i always liked to think i mighta saved your life.
speaker1: thatâ’s some big secret you been carryinâ’, sailor.
speaker2: we all got a secret side, baby. hope you donâ’t think i been lyinâ’ to you â’bout other things, sugar.
speaker1: howâ’d you know my daddy?
speaker3: met him through santos... clyde - your daddy - had some sorta business deal with santos.
speaker2: lula, you there?
speaker1: yeah, iâ’m here.
speaker2: you upset with me?
speaker1: no, sailor darlinâ’. just shockinâ’ sometimes when things arenâ’t the way you thought they were... i been carryinâ’ a secret too...

speaker1: ...they was laughinâ’ arm in arm like animals. 
speaker2: i didnâ’t want to say it ... but i had a feelinâ’ santos was up to somethinâ’ with your mama...
speaker1: my mama... so sailor, our histories have been somewhat intertwined.
speaker2: they have, sugar.
speaker1: i take that as a sign that we were destined by fate to be together.
speaker2: itâ’s a comfortinâ’ idea.
speaker1: well, weâ’re really out in the middle of it now, ainâ’t we?
speaker2: thereâ’s worse places, honey.
speaker1: if you say so.
speaker2: trust me on it.
speaker1: i do trust you, sailor. like i ainâ’t never trusted nobody before.
speaker2: weâ’ll be alâ’right, peanut, long as weâ’ve got room to move.
speaker1: whatâ’s that?
speaker2: i donâ’t know... looks like clothes.
speaker1: oh sailor.
speaker2: one bad car accident...

speaker1: sailor, what are we gonna do? 
speaker2: i donâ’t know, honey, but we gotta help that girl - get her to a town and hope no one catches on i broke parole.
speaker3: iâ’ve got about five hundred dollars in my wallet and i canâ’t find it... my motherâ’s going to kill me. itâ’s got all my cards in it... it was in my pocket... now my pockets gone.
speaker2: letâ’s get ahold aâ’ her quick.
speaker1: you think sheâ’s gonna make it?
speaker2: donâ’t know, but sheâ’s gonna bleed all over our car, iâ’ll tell ya that... hey... hello... girl... you gotta come with us, honey.

speaker1: robert!!!... i got this sticky stuff in my hair... 
speaker2: gotta find my wallet. donâ’t you say one word of this to my mother. sheâ’s gonna kill me.

speaker1: i canâ’t take this, sailor. sheâ’s dyinâ’ right in front of our eyes... 
speaker2: iâ’m afraid she is, baby.
speaker3: get my lipstick... itâ’s in my purse.
speaker1: she died right in front of me. whyâ’d she have to go and do that, sailor?
speaker2: letâ’s get outta here, honey.

speaker1: well, it ainâ’t exactly emerald city... 
speaker2: not quite as bad as the weather though... it must be a hundred and ten and it ainâ’t even noon yet.

speaker1: not bad for eleven dollars a day. 
speaker2: no radio or tv...
speaker2: and no ac.
speaker1: fan works.
speaker2: now what?
speaker1: letâ’s get a sandwich and find out about some work.
speaker2: sailor?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: this ainâ’t exactly my most thrillinâ’ notion of startinâ’ a new life.
speaker2: iâ’m gonna stay here in this room, sailor. i donâ’t feel so good? this heat makes me tired.
speaker1: okay, honey, iâ’ll see you later.

speaker1: you red? 
speaker2: well, i ainâ’t blackie.
speaker1: nameâ’s sailor ripley. katy over at the drugstore thought you might have some work i could do.
speaker2: things ainâ’t real hot right now. rex, there though, is about to relocate in about a week to san angelo. i might could use a man when he does... you good with engines?
speaker1: i ainâ’t no enzo ferrari, but they used to call me wrench when i was a kid.
speaker2: weâ’ll see how she goes then when rex takes off. check back.
speaker3: howâ’s it look?
speaker2: reckon the headâ’s cracked, like i thought.
speaker3: thatâ’s what i was afraid of.
speaker2: iâ’ll get you foreigners a beer.
speaker1: my girl and i are lookinâ’ for a place to settle. weâ’re bunked down at the iguana motel.
speaker3: so are we. itâ’s the only motel in big tuna. have you met bobby â‘just like the countryâ’ peru yet?
speaker1: no, we just got in a hour and a half ago.
speaker4: you will. heâ’s the mr. fix-it at the iguana. his truck broke down here a couple of months ago.
speaker5: escaped con. man got some serious prison tattoos.
speaker2: everâ’body got a past.
speaker4: just some got more future in â’em than others.
speaker5: that ainâ’t no lie.
speaker1: been nice meetinâ’ yâ’all. â’preciate the beer. iâ’ll be seeinâ’ yâ’all soon.
speaker4: very soon.
speaker3: one thing about beinâ’ in big tuna: you donâ’t have much choice about who you see and who you donâ’t.

speaker1: that you, sail, honey? 
speaker2: the only one.
speaker1: you find any work?
speaker2: maybe. met a guy named red, owns a garage, could have some work in about a week. met a few hard luck boys whoâ’s stayinâ’ here. whatâ’s that smell?
speaker1: i barfed. tried to make it to the bathroom... turned out it was the wrong door anyways... i sorta got it cleaned up.
speaker2: you sick?
speaker1: a little, i think... darlinâ’?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: come sit by me.
speaker1: i donâ’t know that this is the right place for us.
speaker2: it ainâ’t gonna be forever, peanut.
speaker1: i know, sailor. nothinâ’ is.

speaker1: â“robert brenton, twenty-five, was killed when his car went off the road on state highway 118, according to the department of public safety. brenton and two passengers, william reese and susan day, were thrown from the automobile, reports said.â” sailor looks at lula. 
speaker2: susan day...
speaker3: robert brenton, that that stupid that fuckinâ’ bob was so fuckinâ’ dumb... he deserved to die... that
speaker1: hey, tommy... whatâ’s goinâ’ on over there in number four where al them bright lights are all the time?
speaker3: them are makinâ’ a pornographic movie...
speaker4: how do you get sixteen haitians into a dixie cup?
speaker5: how?
speaker4: tell â’em it floats.
speaker1: sparkyâ’s big on florida jokes.
speaker4: you need a active sense of humor to survive in the big tuna.
speaker6: hey, everybody.
speaker1: sailor, lula, this hereâ’s the man himself. bobby, this is sailor and lula, the most recent strandees, economic variety.
speaker6: bobby peru, just like the country.
speaker1: accordinâ’ to red and rex, bobbyâ’s the most excitinâ’ item to hit big tuna since the â’86 cyclone sheared the roof off the high school.
speaker4: only in town two months and there ainâ’t a young thing around donâ’t know how that cobra tattoo works, right, bob?
speaker5: you from texas, mr. peru?
speaker6: iâ’m from all over.
speaker2: you was in the marines, huh?
speaker6: four years.
speaker4: bobby was at cao ben.
speaker5: whatâ’s cao ben?
speaker6: how old are you?
speaker5: twenty.
speaker1: lotta women and kids and old people died at cao ben.
speaker6: march, 1968. we torched a village and the government made a big deal out of it.
speaker6: you was on a ship, pardner. hard to make contact with the people when youâ’re off floatinâ’ in the gulf of tonkin.
speaker4: hey bobby, have yourself another glass â’a jack.
speaker6: donâ’t mind if i fuckinâ’ do... speakinâ’ â’a jack... one-eyed jacks yearninâ’ to go a peepinâ’ in a seafood store... good meetinâ’ you. adios, boys.
speaker5: somethinâ’ in that man scares me.
speaker1: no
speaker4: bobbyâ’s got a way... canâ’t shake that institution odor.
speaker5: darlinâ’, i still ainâ’t feelinâ’ so well. iâ’m goinâ’ to bed.
speaker2: iâ’ll come along.

speaker1: man, that barf smell donâ’t fade fast. 
speaker1: anything i can do for you?
speaker2: no, i donâ’t think so, sail. i just need to lie down.
speaker2: sailor? you know what?
speaker1: i know you ainâ’t particularly pleased beinâ’ here.
speaker2: not that. look at what i wrote down cause i canâ’t say it.
speaker1: itâ’s okay by me, peanut.
speaker2: well, nothinâ’ personal, but i ainâ’t sure itâ’s okay by me.
speaker2: really, sailor, it ainâ’t nothinâ’ against you. i love you.
speaker1: love you, too.
speaker2: i know. just iâ’m sorta uncomfortable about the way some things is goinâ’, and this donâ’t help soothe me.
speaker1: i know this ainâ’t easy, lula, but i ainâ’t gonna let things get no worse, i promise.

speaker1: hey, pretty woman... sailor here? 
speaker2: no, heâ’s out changinâ’ the oil in the car.
speaker1: man, i gotta take a bad... can i use your head there?
speaker2: well... yeah - okay.
speaker1: i donâ’t mean your head head - iâ’m not gonna on your head - your hair anâ’ all... just in the toilet. yâ’all take a listen - here a deep sound cominâ’ down from bobby peru.

speaker1: oh... look at this... what do you want, snakeskin? 
speaker2: just passinâ’ through on my way to who knows where...
speaker1: sure... i figured iâ’d see you sometime...
speaker2: hopinâ’ you could tell me if thereâ’s a contract out on me. i really need to know.
speaker1: by who?
speaker2: i think santos or marietta fortune.
speaker1: heard you was goinâ’ out with that bitchâ’s daughter.
speaker2: you heard right.
speaker1: you really are one
speaker2: life is unpredictable.
speaker1: does that girlfriend of yours know that her mama and santos killed her daddy? does she know her own daddy was one of the biggest drug dealers around - till he started snortinâ’ the himself?... does she know you was around that night her daddy was set fire to?
speaker2: i didnâ’t see nothinâ’...
speaker1: yeah... but i did... and i told you all about it...
speaker2: is there a contract?... we made a deal once that weâ’d tip each other off if we ever heard.
speaker1: i know... i remember.
speaker2: well?...
speaker1: i ainâ’t heard of nothinâ’.
speaker2: thanks...

speaker1: hey... you gotta smell in this room of puke... you been pukinâ’ in here, little girl? huh?... you sick?... 
speaker2: you used the toilet, now you can go - what i do around here ainâ’t any of your business, thatâ’s for sure.
speaker1: you know, i really do like a woman with like yours that talks tough and acts like she can like a bunny... can you like that?... you like it like a bunny?... huh?... cause baby, iâ’ll you like a real good like a big olâ’ jack- rabbit bunny... jump all around in that hole... bobby peru doesnâ’t come up for air.
speaker2: get out.
speaker1: am i scarinâ’ ya?... your wet? ... come on ... is it?... hey, donâ’t jump back so slow... i thought you was a bunny... bunny jump fast - you jump back slow... mean somethinâ’, donâ’t it?... means somethinâ’ to me... means you want bobby peru... you want bobby peru to you hard baby - open you up like a christmas present.
speaker1: hey... iâ’m sorry... i donâ’t think iâ’m beinâ’ too polite here ... and i apologize... hell... a man sees a pretty woman and first thing he knows, he loses his manners... sure sign of modern times... next thing ya know, his old handâ’ll start crawlinâ’ around where it oughtnâ’t to go... iâ’ll be real honest with ya... iâ’d like to you and tear you open like a paycheck envelope... will you be honest with me - would you like me to do it?... just a simple yes or no...
speaker1: just feel me breathinâ’ on you... and youâ’ll know i mean business when it comes to fuckinâ’.

speaker1: bobby peru grab you now... hold you tight... feel everythinâ’ in you now... stay quiet... say â“fuck meâ” and then iâ’ll leave. 
speaker2: no way... get out!!!
speaker1: say it!... iâ’ll tear your fuckinâ’ heart out, girl... say â“fuck meâ” soft - then iâ’ll leave. say â“fuck meâ”... whisper it... then iâ’ll leave... say it... say it - say it - say it...
speaker1: say it... then iâ’ll leave... whisper it... whisper it... whisper it... whisper â“fuck meâ”...
speaker1: whisper it... whisper â“fuck meâ”... whisper... whisper... whisper...
speaker2: me.
speaker1: someday honey, i will... but i have to be goinâ’ now... conta i no joras...
speaker2: sailor...

speaker1: need a hand? 
speaker2: thanks, bobby, â’bout done.
speaker1: how â’bout a beer?
speaker2: thatâ’d be fine, bobby.
speaker1: letâ’s go by rosaritaâ’s. you been there yet?
speaker2: no, havenâ’t heard of it.
speaker1: thought maybe sparky and buddyâ’d taken ya. come on, iâ’ll drive.

speaker1: this your car? 
speaker2: hell, no, belongs to my girlâ’s sister. the sisterâ’s been over to new orleans, lets us have it while sheâ’s gone. whereâ’s that pretty little lady of yours today?
speaker1: restinâ’ in our room. she ainâ’t been feelinâ’ well.
speaker2: sorry to hear it.
speaker1: new orleans, huh?... we was just there.

speaker1: no hard liquor here. just beer. 
speaker1: couple stars, jimmy.
speaker2: thought you said this was a private club. how come iâ’m allowed in without beinâ’ a member?
speaker1: you black?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you an indian?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then youâ’re a member... three or four millionaires in here right now.
speaker2: they look like a bunch of good olâ’ boys to me. i guess itâ’s oil money, huh?
speaker1: oil, gas, cattle, farminâ’. ainâ’t nobody shows off around here. iguana countyâ’s one of the richest in texas.
speaker2: wouldnâ’ta guessed it, thatâ’s sure.
speaker1: ready for another?
speaker2: why not?

speaker1: q-7, three times. pee wee kingâ’s â“waltz of regret,â” my favorite tune. 
speaker1: i been studyinâ’ a situation over in lobo, take two men to handle it.
speaker2: whatâ’s that?
speaker1: feed store keeps up to five k in their safe. need me a good boy for back-up. even split. you interested?
speaker2: no... i donâ’t think so, man.
speaker1: be easy, sailor. thereâ’s two employees. i take one in the back to open the safe, you keep the otherâ’n covered... you ainâ’t planninâ’ on raisinâ’ a famâ’ly in big tuna, are ya?
speaker2: whattaya mean family?
speaker1: well... i mean like lula beinâ’ in a family way.
speaker2: lula tell you sheâ’s pregnant? bobby grins, showing those three brown teeth.
speaker1: couple grand or moreâ’d give you two a leg up. get you to the west coast, mexico, most anyplace, with a few dollars in your jeans. i got it figured good, sailor.
speaker2: when did you talk to lula?
speaker1: talked to her this afternoon...
speaker2: she really say she was pregnant?
speaker1: just took a guess is all... you in or out on this deal?
speaker2: i ainâ’t fuckinâ’ sure, bobby.
speaker1: donâ’t think about it too long. you had enough?
speaker2: have now.
speaker1: come on outside, i got somethinâ’ to show ya.

speaker1: thatâ’s a double-barreled, sawed-off, ithaca shotgun with a carved pistol grip stock wrapped with adhesive tape. next to itâ’s a cold smith and wesson .32 handgun with a six inch barrel. theseâ’ll do â’er... loosen up that five grand... two and a half for you and the little lady... 
speaker1: how much money you have between the two aâ’ya right now?...
speaker2: forty bucks...
speaker1: this is easy money, pardner... no ones gonna get hurt in this thing... and i donâ’t think you can afford not to take it... iâ’ll be bringinâ’ the eldo â’round the front of the motel at ten tomorrow morninâ’... if you ainâ’t a - youâ’ll be there.
speaker2: i donâ’t particularly care for that kind of talk, bobby.
speaker1: hey... i never said you was a pussy... always figured you had the big olâ’ round for this kindâ’a thing... sure would set you and that pretty little girl up good.
speaker2: yeah ... yeah... i guess so... that kindâ’a moneyâ’d get us a long way down that yellow brick road...
speaker2: ...but man... this better go smooth.
speaker1: like takinâ’ candy from a fuckinâ’ baby...

speaker1: you been drinkinâ’, huh? 
speaker2: few beers is all. feelinâ’ any better?
speaker1: canâ’t tell yet. whereâ’d you go?
speaker2: that smellâ’s still fillinâ’ this room good.
speaker1: buddy and sparky come by earlier.
speaker2: and bobby too, i hear...
speaker1: yeah... he was lookinâ’ for you.
speaker2: you talk to â’im some?...
speaker1: some... sparky said redâ’s promised to have him and buddy out of here by the weekend.
speaker2: oughta make â’em happy.
speaker1: so whereâ’d you say you was?
speaker2: went with bobby. sailor sits on the bed and starts undressing.
speaker1: sail?
speaker2: uh huh?
speaker1: letâ’s leave here.
speaker2: weâ’re goinâ’ to, lula, real soon.
speaker1: i mean tomorrow.
speaker2: we got about forty bucks, sweetheart.
speaker1: rather be in el paso than big tuna.
speaker2: you shouldnâ’t be smokinâ’ if youâ’re pregnant. ainâ’t smart.
speaker1: who says iâ’m smart? you up to somethinâ’ with bobby peru, sailor?
speaker2: what could i be up to, lula?
speaker1: heâ’s a stone fuckinâ’ criminal, honey, and you ainâ’t.
speaker2: i killed bob ray lemon, didnâ’t i?
speaker1: that was a accident. i bet both our bobby peru done murdered all kinds of people, and meant it, too.
speaker2: that was in vietnam.
speaker1: heâ’s the kind liked it.
speaker2: lula, i got to get some sleep.
speaker1: buddy told me about that thing at cao ben?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: was a massacre. soldiers there murdered old folks, women and babies, and dumped â’em in a trench. bobby peru probâ’ly killed the most.
speaker2: lula, he mighta did, i donâ’t know. but it donâ’t matter now. lotta guys go outta control in a war and it ainâ’t their fault.
speaker1: i sure enjoy smokinâ’, sailor. i hate that itâ’s bad for you.
speaker1: that manâ’s a black angel, sailor. you hook up with him, youâ’ll regret it. if you live to.
speaker3: thanks, darlinâ’, i know you got my best interest in mind, and i â’preciate it sincerely. i love you, but i gotta sleep now.
speaker1: this whole worlds wild at heart and weird on top.
speaker1: i wish you really, truly loved me... i wish youâ’d sing me â“love me tenderâ” ... i wish i was somewhere over that rainbow...

speaker1: hey sailor... wait a minute... i got somethinâ’ for ya. 
speaker1: man... marietta says you been tryinâ’ to her in the toilets for the past ten minutes... you crazy fuckinâ’ bad boy tryinâ’ to your girlâ’s mama... how do you think that cute little lula would feel about that? hey, take a look at this... marietta just gave me this to kill you right now, and afterward she said lula was mine to all the way into next sunday.

speaker1: nice of you to drop by. 
speaker2: told ya i would. you still riled?
speaker1: you still sixteen-year-olds in the ass?
speaker2: ainâ’t never had no girl pull a blade on me.
speaker1: wish iâ’d fuckinâ’ cut you up good.
speaker2: you heard from reggie?
speaker1: juana called. theyâ’re stayinâ’ another week.
speaker2: stayinâ’ a few extra days in the big n.o., huh? this you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: donâ’t look like you.
speaker2: the cobraâ’s waitinâ’ to strike, chica.
speaker1: that guy sailor came around this afternoon... asked me if there was a contract out on â’im.
speaker2: no shit?!?! you know him?
speaker1: used to.
speaker2: whatâ’d you say?
speaker1: no, of course.
speaker2: thatâ’s right... could have a bad accident, though ... before ... durinâ’ ... or after a hold-up...
speaker1: whatâ’s gonna happen when he sees me drivinâ’ the car tomorrow?
speaker2: maybe heâ’ll get a little nervous, but who gives a
speaker2: i knew we could be friends again...

speaker1: whatâ’s she doinâ’ here? 
speaker2: sheâ’s my girl... sheâ’s drivinâ’...
speaker1: why should it?
speaker2: thatâ’s right... take one of these.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: hose. work betterâ’n stockinâ’s. pull one of the legs down over your face and let the other leg trail behind your head. you get the pistol. remember, soon as we get inside, you keep that bad boy up where those hicks can see it. once they notice the ithaca and the smith, theyâ’ll know we ainâ’t foolinâ’ with â’em.
speaker3: cominâ’ up on it now, bobby.

speaker1: come on! get that mask on! 
speaker1: keep it revved, chiquita. we wonâ’t be long. just goinâ’ in to get our five grand.

speaker1: waitinâ’ for somebody, miss? 
speaker2: mi esposo. heâ’s in the feed store picking up some supplies.
speaker1: youâ’d best be careful of that cigarette, maâ’am. itâ’s about to burn down between your fingers.
speaker2: gracias, officer.

speaker1: oh baby, i was beginninâ’ to think i was never gonna see you again. 
speaker1: youâ’re cominâ’ home, precious. santosâ’ gonna drive us to the san antonio airport.
speaker2: mama, sailorâ’s in deep trouble here. i just canâ’t leave him.
speaker1: oh, yes, you can. santos steps forward. lula begins to tremble.
speaker3: your mamaâ’s been real worried â’bout you, honey. me too... can you give your old friend santos a hug, too?

speaker1: iâ’m goinâ’, mama. no way i canâ’t go. 
speaker2: you ainâ’t takinâ’ pace, though.
speaker1: course i am, mama.
speaker2: what timeâ’s sailorâ’s train get in?
speaker1: six.
speaker2: got any plans?
speaker1: figure weâ’ll go have supper someplace. maybe get some barbecue out by stateline. sailor always liked that havana brownâ’s pig pickinâ’.
speaker2: well, you be careful with that boy, lula.
speaker1: sailor ainâ’t a boy no more, mama.
speaker2: donâ’t mean him. itâ’s pace concerns me.
speaker1: really, mama, i gotta go.
speaker2: what if i asked you not to?
speaker1: wouldnâ’t make any difference.
speaker2: what if i told you not to?
speaker1: mama ... if you get in the way of me and sailorâ’s happiness, iâ’ll fuckinâ’ pull your arms out by the roots.

speaker1: howâ’ll we know what he looks like? 
speaker1: mama, you almost crashed us.
speaker2: donâ’t give me no trouble now, pace, please. this ainâ’t the easiest day in a long time. and what do you mean how are we gonna know what your daddy looks like? you seen his photo.
speaker1: howâ’ll he know what we look like? he seen our photo?
speaker2: it, child! now look what you made me do.
speaker1: what i made you do, mama?
speaker2: nothinâ’, honey. mamaâ’s just actinâ’ strange.
speaker1: you ainâ’t actinâ’, mama.
speaker2: why, pace roscoe ripley, ainâ’t you got one cute mouth tonight?

speaker1: pace looks up at his mother. 
speaker2: i still ainâ’t sure what my daddy looks like.
speaker3: like you, sweetheart. you and your daddy got the same mouth, eyes, ears, and nose. only difference is your color hair is like mine.
speaker2: my daddy ainâ’t never killed nobody, has he, mama?
speaker3: course he ainâ’t never killed nobody.
speaker2: heard grandpa santos and grandmama talkinâ’.
speaker3: and?
speaker2: grandmama said how sailor murdered a man.
speaker3: wrong, baby. your daddy never committed no murder. musta been you didnâ’t hear grandmama proper. he made some mistakes, is all. your daddy ainâ’t always been so lucky... weâ’re almost at the depot, honey. sit back a minute.

speaker1: why we sittinâ’ here, mama? 
speaker2: thinkinâ’ a second, baby.
speaker1: iâ’m scared, mama.
speaker2: why, honey?
speaker1: case daddy donâ’t like me. what if he donâ’t like that i donâ’t got his color hair.
speaker2: pace, your daddyâ’d love you even if you didnâ’t have no hair at all.

speaker1: still partial to camels, huh? 
speaker2: first pack of tailor-mades i had in a while.
speaker2: you must be my son.
speaker1: shake hands with your daddy.
speaker2: pleasure to meet you, pace. i read a lot about you.
speaker1: you hungry? pace and i ainâ’t had dinner yet.
speaker2: lead the way.

speaker1: lula drives. 
speaker2: no rag top, huh?
speaker3: whatâ’s wrong, mama?
speaker2: donâ’t worry, son. just stay here.
speaker4: iâ’m sorry, sailor. i just canâ’t help it. give me a minute and iâ’ll quit.
speaker2: boys frightened, lula. this ainâ’t no good.
speaker4: really, sail, iâ’ll be okay.
speaker2: itâ’s a mistake, honey. you two go on.
speaker4: whatâ’re you talkinâ’ about? thatâ’s your son in there.
speaker2: he ainâ’t never known me, lula, so there ainâ’t much for him to forget. not seeinâ’ each other for six years makes it next best to simple for us, too.
speaker4: how can you say that, sailor?
speaker2: what makes sense, is all.
speaker4: donâ’t do this, sailor, please.
speaker2: you been doinâ’ fine without me, peanut. there ainâ’t no need to make life tougherâ’n it has to be.

speaker1: sailor ripley... 
speaker2: the good witch...
speaker1: sailor... lula loves you.
speaker2: but iâ’m a robber and a manslaughterer and i havenâ’t had any parental guidance.
speaker1: sheâ’s forgiven you of all these things ... you love her... donâ’t be afraid, sailor.
speaker2: but iâ’m wild at heart.
speaker1: if you are truly wild at heart, youâ’ll fight for your dreams... donâ’t turn away from love, sailor... donâ’t turn away from love... donâ’t turn away from love.

speaker1: you had enough, asshole? 
speaker2: yes, i have... and i wanna apologize to you gentlemen for referring to you as homosexuals. i also want to thank you fellas, youâ’ve taught me a valuable lesson in life.

