speaker1: you always give me free drinks though. dean oh yeah. well come by anyway. 
speaker1: yeah?... might as well. no action going on at my house, that's for sure. dean really? the wife out of town?
speaker1: no... i just haven't been laid in a month.

speaker1: dean you guys having problems or something? 
speaker2: no. this is pretty much normal these days...
speaker3: you get this job through manpower?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: i started here with manpower too. started out on the line just like you.
speaker3: only i did better... 40 crates a day.
speaker3: i'm the best sorter in here. that's why they made me full time with benefits. i'll probably be floor manager this year.

speaker1: you see that... that new guy. he's holding us up. it's not my job to tell them to hold the line either. 
speaker2: and then joel's gonna come yell at us, cuz he's not doing his job.
speaker1: i'm just gonna sit here.
speaker2: you're not gonna shut it off?
speaker1: i'm not gonna hold the line. if they're not gonna do their job, why should i do mine.

speaker1: if i don't get home before about 8:00, she puts on the sweatpants and once the sweatpants are on, it's over -- i get nothing. 
speaker2: i'm gonna have to call you back.

speaker1: what are you doing?! 
speaker2: what are you doing?! what is he doing?
speaker3: all right. now, what's the problem?
speaker3: okay! okay, everyone settle down. now mary. hector here is new okay? it's gonna take him a couple of days, maybe his english isn't so good. you gotta be patient.
speaker1: that's what i was tryin' to say.
speaker3: and step, if you wanna be floor manager, this is the kind of thing you're going to have to deal with.

speaker1: exactly. 
speaker2: okay, now step, rory, hector, let's get this cleaned up, and get rolling again. we can't afford to fall behind today.
speaker3: you see that? we always get the blame.

speaker1: jesus... they're like a bunch of children. 
speaker2: tell me about it. sorry i missed the drama; i was showing boy-genius down there how to back up a forklift.
speaker2: that's his whole career, driving that forklift. you'd think he'd wanna learn how.
speaker1: well, i guess he's got that band he's in too...
speaker2: disgust at the word
speaker3: "band", ugh...

speaker1: i'll bet dollars to donuts he at that too. then you got ah... dinkus down there... 
speaker2: who, mary?
speaker1: no, the other one -- what's-her- face -- she asked me -- or rather "axed" me -- for more personal days. just like that. i told her maybe if she figures out how to fill out the time sheets correctly i'll give her more personal days... don't worry, she will never fill out her time sheets correctly.
speaker2: look at 'em... i am so sick of baby sitting these assholes. i better get going...

speaker1:  
speaker2: hi there joel! glad i caught ya...
speaker2: how've ya been? i left you a message last week. i don't know if you got it or not.
speaker1: yeah, actually nathan, i'm kind of in a hurry here.
speaker2: oh yeah? you been busy?
speaker1: yeah, in fact... i should go right now actually. i gotta call the office before they leave.
speaker2: well, real quick while i got ya here -- what're you guys doing november 17th?
speaker1: ah, i don't ah...
speaker3: actually we're going to be out of town that weekend.
speaker2: oh yeah? where you going?

speaker1: ah... 
speaker2: oh, wait a minute -- i'm sorry, i meant the 7th. yeah, november 7th.
speaker1: ah...yeah.
speaker2: great. there's this dinner leslie and i are going to. it's an annual thing -- we do it every year with the rotary club -- it's for charity. it's just a whole lot of fun, and we wanted to invite you and suzie to be our guests at our table. it's--
speaker1: i'm sorry, i ah... i just don't think that's something we're gonna want to do.
speaker2: really? why not? it's a lot of fun.
speaker1: oh, i don't know. suzie doesn't really like going to stuff like

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: well, we wouldn't know anybody there. she get's kind of uncomfortable.
speaker1: oh no -- it's not like that. she won't be uncomfortable. i guarantee it. no, it's not like that at all. it's not formal or anything. trust me. it's just a real loose bunch.

speaker1: i just don't... 
speaker2: i tell you what. why don't we do this -- i'll go ahead and get tickets, since they're gonna sell out fast. you talk to suzie. see what she says. like i say, she won't be uncomfortable at all. maybe i'll have leslie give her a call -- you know how it is when the wives talk, heh heh-- joel is about to snap.
speaker1: um, why don't we talk about this later. i gotta make this call before they leave.
speaker1: sorry... i just gotta make this call!

speaker1: sorry, i almost forgot -- the tickets are forty dollars a plate. i know that's a little steep, but the food is fantastic and it's for a good cause. so that'd be eighty dollars total. there's no tax or anything. 
speaker2: ah, look nathan, i really gotta get inside and make this call. let's talk about this another time.

speaker1: oh, and if you need us to look out for the house or anything when you go out of town -- 
speaker1: well, just let us know. where you guys going anyway?
speaker2: ah, just sort of a vacation. look, i gotta run.
speaker1: alright then. we'll see ya.

speaker1: man, that nathan won't shut up. 
speaker2: yeah, what an i don't even go into the front yard anymore. that wife of his is even worse.

speaker1: we gotta get a new pool cleaner.i don't think that checked the chlorine levels again like i asked him too... 
speaker1: .and every time he is here, he goes on and on about some problem with the filter, and i have no idea what he's talking about...
speaker1: ah,...joel?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm sorry. it's just... i'm a little tired, and, i don't know, it's the middle of the week...
speaker2: it's not the middle of the week.
speaker1: monday?
speaker3: oh
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: idol!

speaker1: suzie plops down in a barcalounger. 
speaker2: sorry honey. maybe this weekend.

speaker1: i gotta get a house with a bathroom that's doesn't share a wall with the tv. 
speaker2: why don't you do that in another bathroom. you've got three of 'em.
speaker1: it would look suspicious. we never use those other bathrooms... maybe if i had some insulation put in...
speaker2: insulation?... all i know is, you shouldn't move man; you've got a nice house. i mean you've got the american dream really -- you own your own company. i can't believe you used to bar back for me here, and now you've got all that.
speaker1: but what do i have really? it's a big pain in the ass.

speaker1: i'm always working; can't stop or the whole place will fall apart. and what good does it do me anyway? i don't get laid. that stock guy with the band that works for me probably gets laid more than i do. 
speaker2: yeah, but he probably lives in a crappy apartment.
speaker1: hell, i'd move into a crappy apartment if the bathroom wasn't right next to the tv.

speaker1: yeah, it's expensive but it's sweet... are you familiar with the gibson humbucking pickups? 
speaker2: no, sorry. i don't play. it's for my dad actually -- for his fiftieth birthday. my sisters and i are all pitching in.
speaker3: ah, that's nice... your dad would love these humbuckings. they really kick ass.

speaker1: excuse me... i just have a quick question... 
speaker2: so, what kind of music did he play?
speaker3: i think he played like, jazz or something. i'm not sure.
speaker2: well this is an excellent jazz guitar. it's what pat metheny plays.
speaker4: is your dad into metheny at all?
speaker3: oh, i don't know who that is.
speaker2: he's like, a totally kickass fusion guitarist. are you into fusion?
speaker3: i don't really know much about it...
speaker2: i play fusion guitar so... just curious.
speaker3: um, do they come in any other colors?
speaker4: you mean different finishes? there's a sunburst finish we might have in stock.

speaker1: yeah, do you wanna see it? i'll go get it. 
speaker2: or i could go. whatever.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker4: oh totally./ no prob!/ i'll show you the case it comes with too.

speaker1: i thought you said he wasn't serious; he was just sniffing around. 
speaker2: yeah, well he's serious now. he just made an offer -- i mean a real offer this time.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: no. it must be part of some bigger strategic move, because it's over market value i think.
speaker1: wow...
speaker1: i could unload all this... i could probably retire...
speaker2: i mean, yeah, there's a lot of details to work out, but this could be great. they'll be calling back next week, what should i tell them?
speaker1: tell 'em yes.

speaker1: to the person on the 
speaker2: uh-huh... alright. let me know if you hear anything else.
speaker1: well, he's definitely lost one of 'em. they think they might be able to re-attach the other one, but they're not sure.

speaker1: wow... 
speaker2: yeah... i'm not sure how it happened, but we have a great safety record and we comply with all the safety codes so... it was just a freak accident. there'll be an investigation of some kind i'm sure.
speaker1: well, you have insurance for that kind of thing, right?
speaker2: oh yeah. of course. in fact, he'll probably get a huge settlement.
speaker1: yeah. i would think so. i mean, it's your balls...
speaker2: boy it really makes you stop and think about how fragile we are -- especially our balls. they're just hanging there in a little sack between our legs. at any moment they could be cut off forever.
speaker1: yeah. and your are really important man. your are everything. what kind of life would you have with no testicles? can you imagine that
speaker2: yeah...
speaker2: you know dean, my life wouldn't be much different than it is now actually.

speaker1: except for once every three months when i have with my wife. in fact, i might even be better off... 
speaker2: wait. three months? i thought you said it was once a month.
speaker1: i did? i must've been lying. i don't know... maybe things'll get better when i sell the company.
speaker2: well, i hope so. that would suck... i get laid all the time. sorry.
speaker1: ah, it's all right...
speaker1: actually, it
speaker2: yeah, sexual frustration is bad news... you know what you oughtta do?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: get some xanax.
speaker1: xanax? isn't that for anxiety?
speaker2: yeah it is, but i find it's good for just about any phsychological problem. i mean, basically it just makes you feel good, so it sort of works for anything. i even take it when i have a cold. it's probably great for sexual frustration. want me to get you some?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: you know what else is good? 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: it's just good.
speaker2: are you on something now?
speaker1: no... well, i guess i took some vicodin this morning. but that was just 'cause i was hung-over.

speaker1: um, you know, i'm really not supposed to say this... but since this belonged to your father, and since he passed away and all... 
speaker1: you could probably get a better deal at a music store.
speaker2: oh, that's okay. thanks. but i just kind of wanna get it over with, you know? it's kind of hard for me.
speaker1: i understand.

speaker1: so obviously step's not coming back anytime soon. i had to hire a couple temps. is that okay? 
speaker2: yeah, sure. how is step?

speaker1: better. they say he's going home in a couple of days. speaking of which, the guys at general mills heard about this whole step thing. they're worried. if step decides to sue us -- beyond the insurance settlement -- it could be a serious liability. they don't want to make an offer until this thing has settled. 
speaker2: really? they think it's that big of a liability?
speaker1: well yeah. don't you? i mean, think about it. imagine if you asked a bunch of jurors how much you'd have to pay 'em to cut their off? i mean, i wouldn't let someone cut my off for a billion dollars. seriously -- unless there were some kind of really expensive operation that could give you artificial or something. would you?
speaker2: no, i guess not.
speaker1: anyway, i wouldn't worry. he says he's not going to sue us. says he
speaker1: "don't want somethin' fer nothin "' and "what's right is right." if we can just get him to sign something to that effect we should be fine.
speaker2: boy, step sure is being mellow about all this.
speaker1: yeah, well i think when you lose your it mellows you out. you don't get as off and aggressive about things. i know it's true for horses, and bulls.

speaker1: boy, it sure does make you think.. 
speaker2: oh, by the way, guess who asked for a raise today?
speaker1: who?

speaker1: brian, you call everyone here "dinkus." i don't know who you're talking about. 
speaker2: you know, forklift-dinkus?
speaker1: oh... i thought you call him "boy- genius."
speaker2: yeah, well boy-genius asked for a raise. i said, "are you kidding? you nearly got someone killed last week," and then he blamed it on dinkus over there.
speaker1: you know brian, you really ought to learn the employees' names.
speaker2: well, i was thinking about that, but hey, if this deal goes through next week, i won't have to. it's not like i'm gonna be inviting dinkus and boy-genius over for dinner.

speaker1: hey man. what's goin' o-- whoa! 
speaker1: who's she? is she new?
speaker2: yeah. she's a temp.
speaker1: she's a tramp?
speaker2: no a temp. quit staring.
speaker1: damn, she's hot! way to go.
speaker2: hey, i didn't hire her. she came here through manpower, like everybody else. they just sent her over.
speaker1: manpower, huh? maybe i should give them a call. you don't usually have girls anywhere near that hot working here. what's the deal?
speaker2: yeah, i know. i guess it makes sense though if you think about it. hot girls need a job just as much as anyone else.
speaker1: do they really?... huh... you just don't see 'em here. usually your temps look like winos. and they're guys.
speaker2: you wanna hear something really weird?
speaker1: what?

speaker1: she came on to me. 
speaker2: no way! really?
speaker1: yeah. i mean, i'm pretty sure. i could be wrong, but...
speaker2: hey, i'm sure she did. are you kidding? you could have any girl down there.
speaker1: i don't know about that.
speaker2: i'm serious. dude, you're the big shot here. you're the king of... what do you call that you make here again?
speaker1: extract. and spray-dried flavoring, and we're branching out

speaker1: yeah, you're the extract king man. you could have any girl here. i mean, i wouldn't want most of 'em, but her... way to go joel. 
speaker1: so how did she come on to you?
speaker2: well, first she started asking me about what happened to step and all that stuff -- you know, just sort of making conversation?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: but it really seemed like she was flirting with me, you know?

speaker1: then, she just sort of asked me out... i think. 
speaker2: really? how?
speaker1: well, you see that guy down there by the fork lift?
speaker1: his band is playing somewhere, at some party this weekend, and she asked me if i wanted to go with her.
speaker2: wow. so, you gonna do anything about it?
speaker1: what? no. no way. i couldn't live with myself if i cheated on suzie... it'd be nice if i got laid at home once in a while though...
speaker2: man, she is fine. you mind if i hit that then?
speaker1: yeah, i do sort of...

speaker1: now hold on-- 
speaker2: i won't hold on! i'll call the cops!
speaker3: what? i don'... no comprende...
speaker1: espera un momento hector. tu sabes donde esta su... uh, purse?
speaker4: now wait a second. calm down mary.
speaker2: it's gone! that's how.
speaker4: well, what did it look like.
speaker2: it was black with a fur, leopard style border...

speaker1: you can go ahead of me if that's all you have. 
speaker2: thank you so much. i can't believe i'm buying this stuff -- i work at the factory.
speaker1: really? i work there too. or, ah, i used to.
speaker2: really? you're kidding! i just started there. what's your name?
speaker1: i go by step. yeah, i'm the fastest sorter there...

speaker1: i'm sick of it dean. i'm sick of being turned down in my own house by my own wife. we're turning into one of those brother-sister couples. 
speaker2: huh...now that you mention it, you guys kind of look alike too.
speaker1: no we don't!
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: maybe things will be better after i sell the company... or maybe it's just going to mean more time to sit around and contemplate not getting laid.
speaker2: what about that girl at work? she still into you?
speaker1: yeah... she was really coming on to me. she gave me her phone number and everything. told me to call her if i wanted to go to that party. can you believe that? and there's nothing i can do about it, but just be sexually frustrated.
speaker2: i've got some xanax if you want it. like i say, that always works for me.

speaker1: no thanks... 
speaker2: well maybe you should call that girl.
speaker1: no, i can't. i can't cheat on suzie. i just gotta power through it until i'm so old that i can't get it up anymore.
speaker2: what about if suzie cheated on you?
speaker1: hmm... i hadn't even thought of that...
speaker1: i wish she would.
speaker2: you wish she would cheat on you? wouldn't that bother you?
speaker1: no. i don't think it would actually. i guess that's weird huh?
speaker2: yeah, it's a little weird. sort of.
speaker1: but see, then i could do something about all this sexual frustration, without feeling guilty about it.
speaker2: do you think she would cheat on you?
speaker1: nah...
speaker2: you sure?

speaker1: well, i don't know. hmm... maybe if she were really tempted she would. like if some really studly guy came on to her. 
speaker2: so you're saying she would probably cheat on you if she was put in temptation's way?
speaker1: yeah, maybe.
speaker2: you know what you oughtta do?
speaker1: i don't wanna do any drugs dean.
speaker2: no, no. check this out -- if you really wish your wife would cheat on you, it's not that hard to make it happen.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: hire a gigolo to have an affair with your wife.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm serious. i know a guy.
speaker1: you know a gigolo?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how do you know a gigolo?

speaker1: this guy brad. he comes in here all the time. he's a friend of vic's. you could hire him to have an affair with suzie. 
speaker2: come on dean.
speaker1: why not? you said you wouldn't care if she cheated on you. then you'd be free to go out with that cindy chick and get your ya-yas out -- with no guilt. problem solved. man, what a great idea.
speaker2: you know, maybe i will try some of that xanax.

speaker1: i just believe that what's right is right. 
speaker2: that's right step, and what's right is for you to send a message.
speaker1: a message?
speaker2: you need to send a message so that a horrible accident like this never happens to anyone else ever again. that's what's right. and the way you do that is to take them to court.

speaker1: you think? 
speaker2: yes step... that's why i called a lawyer for you -- that guy on all the bus stop benches.
speaker1: joe adler?
speaker1: you did that for me?
speaker2: mmm hmm... i just want you to do what's right step.
speaker2: i'm sorry step, your doctor said you shouldn't get aroused.
speaker1: no he didn't.
speaker2: maybe it was your lawyer, but he talked to your doctor. and your doctor said it's very important not to get aroused until after the trial... i'm sorry.
speaker1: that's okay... you're so good to me cindy.
speaker2: look step, you're getting me turned on, i'm getting you turned on... i better just go.

speaker1: do you remember what color that pill i gave you was? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: i don't think it was xanax. i think that might've been ritalin... or "special k."
speaker2: ah, who cares?
speaker1: it's just that, ah, special k is a horse tranquilizer, kinda has a weird effect when people take it but... well, don't worry about it... you might not want to drink too much more though.
speaker2: beginning to slur his
speaker3: you know that thing you were talking about? about the gigolo?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: do you think it would be wrong to do that? i mean morally wrong?
speaker1: oh nooo. definitely not. what could be morally wrong about it?
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: look, if she doesn't want to go for it, she doesn't have to. and if she does, then she's the one who sinned, and then it's perfectly morally right for you to go out and boff whoever you want.

speaker1: yeah, i guess you're right. i can't think of anything morally wrong about it either. 
speaker1: and this guy, he's a friend of yours? what's his name?
speaker2: brad. you want me to give him a call?
speaker1: i don't know. it's kinda weird even talking about it.
speaker2: look, this is no big deal joel.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. i mean, you can't lose. just say you're hiring him to come clean the pool or something. see what happens. if she doesn't go for it, then at least you know you're doing the right thing by being faithful.
speaker1: yeah, i guess you're right... i don't know. it's crazy.
speaker2: look. have another drink. think about it... you know what? why don't i just call brad and see what he has to say?
speaker1: alright. what the hell.

speaker1: so it's two-hundred dollars then? 
speaker2: yeah, two-hundred.
speaker3: well yeah, but don't forget, i'm getting ten percent.
speaker1: what, so you're a pimp now?
speaker3: i don't think they're called "pimps" when it's with male prostitutes, okay. there's some other word for it -- it's not a "john," but it's something like that. besides, i'm the one who hooked all this up. and don't worry 'cuz it's coming out of brad's money anyway.
speaker1: alright, alright.
speaker1: so it's two-hundred dollars then?
speaker3: two-hundred and twenty.
speaker1: wait a minute--
speaker2: um, i have a question?
speaker1: yeah?

speaker1: so like, are you gonna, like, watch or something? 
speaker2: no no no. no! it's not like that. i won't even be there. i'll be at work. remember? we already talked about this.
speaker2: what you'll do, is come to my house pretending to be the new pool cleaner. then you simply try to seduce my wife. okay? if she doesn't respond, you simply clean the pool and leave. that's all. it's that simple.
speaker1: so, uh, you're not gonna touch my or anything...?
speaker2: no! try to pay attention okay? i will not be there. i will be at work. you come over to my house while i'm not there, posing as the new pool cleaner and then try to seduce her...
speaker1: oooh, i see. sorry man. yeah, yeah. i get it now. you're not even gonna be there...
speaker2: yeah, that's right.
speaker1: yeah... cool. no problem. this is gonna be great!
speaker2: remember, she might not go for it-- brad starts to get a little too excited.

speaker1: yeah, this is gonna be cool! i can hardly wait! awesome. hey man, if you know anyone else who needs -- you know -- what i do, like you know, lonely housewives and maybe you could tell 'em about me, you know... 
speaker1: cuz like, i figure if i did a few jobs and i was, like, really good? then maybe they'd tell their friends, you know, and they'd give me a... what do you call those things?
speaker2: referrals.
speaker1: yeah yeah, those things. then those women could tell more women and then it'd be like i was, like, uh... branching or..
speaker2: networking.
speaker1: yeah, networking! totally. then if i got enough of 'em, maybe i could quit my landscaping job and do this full time. that would be awesome! cause i hate landscaping. i like getting laid a lot better, and my boss is a total dick...

speaker1: okay, you've said that a few times now brad. go on to your car. 
speaker2: alright. cool. like i say--
speaker1: goodnight brad.
speaker2: okay. see you later.
speaker1: let me drive you home. you're in no condition to drive.
speaker3: are you sure about this guy dean? he acts like he's never done this before.
speaker1: oh no. he does it all the time. don't worry. he just gets a little excited sometimes. he's cool.
speaker3: i don't know. he sure doesn't seem too bright.
speaker1: yeah well, what do you excpect?

speaker1: looks like you had one of those nights. 
speaker1: where was i?
speaker2: oh

speaker1: thank you're home. ah,... did that really happen last night? i mean, did we go through with it -- with that gigolo stuff? 
speaker2: ah, yeah. as far as i know.
speaker1: what was i thinking?! we gotta call it off. right now. can you call that guy, brad?
speaker2: okay...
speaker1: tell him i'll pay him anyway, whatever, just don't come over.

speaker1: sure, i'll call him. no problem... oh wait a second. i don't think i have his number. 
speaker2: what? i thought you called him last night.
speaker1: yeah, but i got his number from vic.
speaker2: well get it from him again.
speaker1: vic doesn't have a phone right now.
speaker2: i'll try information. what's brad's last name?
speaker1: hmm... it's something like,... i think it's a mexican name.
speaker2: mexican?! the guy's got blonde hair and blue eyes!
speaker1: yeah, i thought it was weird too -- a guy like that with a mexican last name... it's like lopez, or sanchez or something.
speaker2: 

speaker1: joel, we gotta talk. 
speaker2: not now brian.
speaker1: ah yeah, it's kind of important -- kind of really important. it's
speaker2: not now!
speaker3: excuse me joel? there's a brad chavez on line one for you.
speaker2: i can't, i-- joel stops suddenly.
speaker2: who?
speaker3: brad chavez. he said he's done with the job you guys talked about at your house? do you want me to take a message?
speaker2: um, no... he's the ah, pool cleaner. i better take that.

speaker1: hey, is this joel? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: hey, it's brad. mission accomplished dude.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i mean it worked. she totally went for it.
speaker2: what? what're you...? you weren't even supposed to be there for another 45 minutes.
speaker1: oh really? i forgot what time you guys said, and i was so excited about it, i just went over there.
speaker2: so you mean she actually ah... you guys...?
speaker1: yup. it was easy.
speaker2: easy? what do you mean "easy"?
speaker1: oh, i don't mean easy like she was easy -- like she was a or anything. i just mean it wasn't hard to get her to... never mind.
speaker2: no. tell me. tell me how it happened.
speaker2: i wanna hear everything.

speaker1: you sure? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: okay. well, she let me in, so i went back like i was cleaning the pool...

speaker1: .i don't know anything about pool cleaning, so i was just faking it. she was in her bathing suit... 
speaker1: .so i struck up a conversation...
speaker1: this is a really nice house.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: is it your dad's house?
speaker2: no. it's ours.
speaker1: wow, you look so young to be living in a house this nice.
speaker2: oh, thanks.
speaker1: do you have any sunscreen? i forgot mine.

speaker1: brad's dopey narration comes back in... 
speaker2: i thought that was pretty smart of me -- to ask her to borrow sunscreen. see, 'cuz that way, once she gave me some, i could ask her if she wanted some too, and rub some on her back, instead of just coming out and asking her to rub some on her. pretty smooth huh?...
speaker2: once i was rubbing the sunscreen on her, the rest was easy...
speaker3: okay that's enough! stop!

speaker1: i don't need to hear anymore. 
speaker2: okay, cool. hey, like i say, if you know of anyone else, or if you ever need me to do it again--
speaker1: no! no. look, i gotta go. bye.
speaker1: holy

speaker1: dammit ! 
speaker1: no... not today...
speaker2: how's it goin'?
speaker1: oh, i'm kind of busy actually.
speaker2: yeah. well i won't keep you. i just wanted to let you know, i got those tickets to that dinner we talked about on the 7th. i think i told you they were forty dollars a piece, but it turns out it's a tad more this year -- fifty-five -- so if i could go ahead and just get a check from you guys...
speaker1: look, ah, we can't go. remember?
speaker2: no, this is the 7th. you said you're going out of town on the 17th.
speaker1: yeah, but remember, i told you we didn't really want to go to this thing.
speaker2: but i already bought the tickets. i know you said something about her feeling uncomfortable, but, like i say, she won't feel uncomfortable at all -- i guarantee it.

speaker1: it's just a whole lot of fun. you guys'll have a great time. 
speaker2: look, i gotta get going.
speaker1: alright then...
speaker1: oh, one more thing --

speaker1: so... how's work? 
speaker2: it
speaker1: really? what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker2: i don't feel well. i'm going to bed.

speaker1: so you're in a band? 
speaker2: .actually, i'm in five bands right now. but godscock is basically the same four guys as fighthead, but fighthead's more of a thrash/skatepunk thing. godscock is more melodic stuff.
speaker2: so you comin' friday?
speaker1: yeah, definitely. ooh, i gotta go. dentist appointment.
speaker2: cool. cindy leaves.
speaker3: see, there he goes again, slowing us down.
speaker3: now she's a good sorter. they need to hire more people like her.
speaker4: she's so nice too.
speaker3: i can't believe he's still working here. you know silvia can't find her wallet. thinks it was stolen. and guess who was in the locker room last? hector.

speaker1: you know, i could get a job at southwest airlines. my niece works there. i'd get better benefits than we get here too. 
speaker2: mmm hmm. i could get a job at gemco. you think they would put up with this stuff at gemco? mmm mmn.
speaker1: that's right.

speaker1: good riddance... 
speaker2: you got a second? i think we might have a big problem here. i'm not sure what happened, but all of the sudden step says he doesn't want to settle anymore. i think he might've talked to a lawyer.
speaker2: like i say, general mills isn't going to make their offer official until this settles.
speaker1: i think step is just chest-beating. he does this all the time. he gets all wound up, talks big, then he always backs down. and that's with his balls.

speaker1: i'm sorry to even bring this up, but you're not living with the drug dealer anymore are you? 
speaker2: nope. i'm staying at extended stay until i can find a place...
speaker2: see?
speaker2: i really feel like i've turned my life around. thanks in large part to you.
speaker1: it's okay. i'm just glad to see you're doing so well... ah, one more thing i just need to ask you: we had a little incident up in templeton a couple weeks back where someone stole an expensive guitar from a music store? someone who fit your description. you know anything about that?
speaker2: huh? no... i was probably at work that day.

speaker1: look cindy, you realize you can't screw up anymore right? i mean, even something minor, and you could go back to jail for a while this time. i'd hate to see that happen. 
speaker2: well yeah, but why would i steal a guitar? i've got no musical talent. i'm tone deaf.
speaker1: heh heh, so am i. i can't carry a tune to save my life.
speaker2: really? wow...
speaker1: yeah, i could barely sing the star spangled banner in school...

speaker1: hey mr. reynolds. 
speaker2: oh, hey cindy. you can just call me joel.
speaker1: okay joel. so you going to the party tonight?
speaker2: oh yeah. right, that's tonight...

speaker1: yeah, i was thinking about it. are you going? 
speaker2: yeah, definitely. maybe i'll see you there?
speaker1: yeah, i think i'll probably go.
speaker2: do you have the directions?
speaker1: i'm not sure...
speaker2: here, i'll write it down just in

speaker1: i'll also put my number on here. in case you want to call me some time -- if you want. 
speaker2: um... okay. sure.

speaker1: hi there. almost missed ya. 
speaker2: hi. i can't talk right now--
speaker1: hey, i noticed you guys got a new pool cleaner today. how is he? we're thinking of changing services.

speaker1: look nathan, i gotta... wait, you mean yesterday, don't you? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: the new pool cleaner. you saw him yesterday right? not today.
speaker2: no. it was today. the new guy.
speaker1: what'd he look like?
speaker2: blonde haired kid, about this high, good looking. real good looking.

speaker1: you sure it was today? not yesterday? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you're absolutely sure?
speaker2: yeah. i know it was today, because i came home for lunch. i was gone all day yesterday. anyway, you think i could go ahead and get that check from ya? like i say, it's 55 dollars a plate, so that'd be 110 total. there's no tax...

speaker1: oh, umm... nothing. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: look, don't worry about it bro'. i won't charge you for this one.
speaker2: won't charge me for...? you had with my wife again?!
speaker1: well, i figured we already did it once, so what's the big deal? i mean, she said to stop by if i was in the neighborhood, so... besides, i'm not gonna charge you--
speaker2: not gonna charge...? you! yes you are gonna charge me! i'm gonna pay you! you're not having with my wife for free! and i better not ever catch you anywhere near my house ever again!

speaker1: i can't believe my wife slept with that guy. 
speaker2: well... i thought you said it wouldn't bother you.
speaker1: i guess i didn't really think about it long enough... i just wish it hadn't been so easy for him.
speaker2: yeah, i'm tellin' ya, chicks really go wild for that brad... sorry.
speaker1: no, you're right. he may be a stupid, dull-witted but he can get any girl he wants. me, i had to work for it. i had to work hard, get a career going, take suzie out a bunch of times, marry her. but not brad. he gets to waltz into my house and have with my wife just like that. oh, and by the way? that little was at my house again today.
speaker2: no what was he doing?
speaker1: take a wild guess.

speaker1: wow... you pay a guy to do a job, then he comes back and does it for free. 
speaker2: i'm not going to let him do it for free. no way. i'm paying him.
speaker1: really? how much?
speaker2: oh, i don't know. the same, i guess. why?
speaker1: hmm... so should i get my twenty dollars from brad then or...
speaker1: we can worry about that later... look at the bright side, now you can call cindy.
speaker2: i don't know... i feel weird about it. besides, she's at the party, she probably won't be home 'til late.
speaker1: you know what you need to do?
speaker2: i don't wanna do drugs dean.
speaker1: look, i know i joke around a lot, but this time i'm serious. you should try smoking a little pot. it's just an herb, it heals.
speaker2: i get paranoid when i smoke pot.

speaker1: not when you just smoke a little. come on. you ever meet my friend willie? great guy. really great guy. he's the guy i got that horse tranquilizer from. 
speaker2: oh, wonderful.

speaker1: i've been reading about it -- they're making technological advances now, coming up with great drugs that can make you happy and won't leave you with a hangover or nothin'. 
speaker2: right on.
speaker3: oh, i don't know... i'm kind of a light weight. i think that's too much for me--
speaker2: 
speaker1: come on joel. don't worry, this stuff isn't that strong.

speaker1: he gets paranoid when he gets too stoned. 
speaker2: ah, what the hell.
speaker3: okay, now this is a gravity bong.
speaker2: umm, i think... no.
speaker3: okay, pay attention. put your thumb right here on the carburetor. when i pull the plunger up and say, "let go" i want you to let go and inhale hard.
speaker3: okay exhale!
speaker2: you know, maybe i should just let

speaker1: exhale hard! 
speaker1: let go! inhale! now!

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: huh?
speaker1: oh, i thought somebody said something.

speaker1: haaaah ha... the look on your face! 
speaker1: man you really do get paranoid when you get stoned.
speaker2: yeah, heh heh...

speaker1: hey joel, why don't you call that chick now? 
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker3: time for you to call her and finally get laid man! come on!
speaker1: it's twelve thirty. she might be back by now.
speaker2: alright.
speaker3: so what's this chick look like?
speaker2: oh, she's got brown hair. pretty hot. kind of working-class looking...
speaker3: what do you mean by that?
speaker2: umm... oh you know,...
speaker3: is she kind of slutty lookin'?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker3: alright! that's how i like 'em.

speaker1: yeah... 
speaker1: kinda nasty, heh heh...
speaker1: i hope i don't wake her up...
speaker1: it's busy.
speaker2: alright. at least you know she's home.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: try her again. come on.
speaker1: still busy... man, what kind of person doesn't have call-waiting.
speaker3: i don't have call-waiting. i hate call-waiting. every time i hear that clicking sound, i wanna put my fist through someone's head.
speaker3: haaa ha! man you really do get paranoid when you're stoned... seriously though, i hate call-waiting.
speaker1: yeah...
speaker3: here let me dial. you're too stoned.

speaker1: i'll tell you why you're getting a busy signal. this is my number. 
speaker2: huh? but...
speaker2: oh... you're joking right? trying to make me paranoid?
speaker3: hi. sorry i'm late, i...
speaker3: joel? what are you doing here...?
speaker4: well, it looks like you guys got a lot to talk about here so i think i'm just gonna go ahead and take off. later guys.
speaker1: kinda slutty?

speaker1: oh my joel, are you alright? 
speaker2: i'm fine. i'm fine. i just ah... got my kicked. go back to sleep.
speaker1: what? by who? what happened?
speaker2: it was just... some guy over at scoreboards.
speaker1: let me drive you to the hospital.
speaker2: no. i'll be fine. i just want to sleep right now, okay?
speaker1: you sure you're okay? it looks like your nose is broken, and your

speaker1: hi joel. brian wanted to see you-- 
speaker1: oh my what happened?

speaker1: hi... did you talk to step yet? 
speaker2: he isn't returning my calls.
speaker1: we've got problems. he did hire a lawyer -- joe adler -- he's that personal injury lawyer you see on all the bus-stop benches. you oughtta see this guy. he's a real piece of shi-- oh man, what happened to you?
speaker2: oh, i fell down some stairs.
speaker1: well anyway, i hate to say this, but i think we're screwed. there's no way this adler guy is gonna settle for anything less then bankrupting us. says he'll sue us into the stone age.
speaker2: clutches his head
speaker3: i gotta talk to step.

speaker1: man, everyone's getting hurt. cindy came in with a black eye today. you hear how she got it? 
speaker2: ah... no.
speaker1: step did it. can you believe that?
speaker2: no he--!
speaker2: what? where did you hear that?
speaker1: that's what she told mary.
speaker2: but... step? does he even know her?
speaker1: apparently they've been going out.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: i know, it's weird. they didn't even meet here. they met at a grocery store or something. just a total coincidence.
speaker1: anyway, we're gonna have to hire a couple of new people because

speaker1: really? 
speaker2: yep. and if it's okay with you, i'd like to go ahead and fire hector.
speaker1: fire hector? what for?

speaker1: you know, mary's purse? sylvia's wallet? it's gotta be him. who else could it be? 
speaker2: no. don't fire him. just trust me on this. give him another week. if anything else is stolen, then you can fire him.
speaker1: alright. if you say so.
speaker1: man, are you okay? have you seen a doctor?
speaker3: joel, dean is on line one for you.
speaker2: okay, thanks.
speaker2: i better get this.
speaker2: hello.
speaker4: hey man. sorry i bailed on you like that last night. it's just that i don't like to get involved in other people's personal you know what i mean?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker4: i didn't even know willie had a girlfriend. she must be new. man, willie looked pissed.

speaker1: i thought he was gonna take a swing at you there for a second. 
speaker2: he did take a swing at me dean. several swings. in fact, he beat the living out of me.
speaker1: whoa, really?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: wow. man, that really goes to show you -- this town is smaller than you think. you really gotta be careful.
speaker2: i'm not feeling well. i'm going to go home early.

speaker1:  
speaker1: what the were you doing on my street again?!
speaker2: dude, you weren't supposed to be home for another four hours-- whoa, what happened to your face?

speaker1: the same thing that's gonna happen.. your face is gonna look worse if... if i ever catch you anywhere near my house or my wife again, i'll have you arrested. 
speaker2: for what? suzie let me in.
speaker1: what the is wrong with you anyway? do you do this with all your clients -- just keep coming back and hanging around?
speaker2: i don't know. this is my first one.
speaker1: what?! i thought you were a professional!
speaker2: look man, i know she's your wife an' but you might as well know -- i think we're in love.
speaker1: in love?!
speaker1: ha! man are you stupid. you are so dumb. you think she loves you? you're nothing but a piece of to her. that's all.
speaker2: i don't think so dude.
speaker1: oh, you don't think so "dude?" well did you ever think about this: she doesn't even know that i paid you to have with her -- did that cross your small mind?
speaker2: uuh..

speaker1: how about i go home right now and tell her? tell her you did it for the money. how about that loverboy? 
speaker2: you wouldn't do that.
speaker1: you don't think so? watch me.
speaker2: no... dude, please don't. please?
speaker2: look man, we really have a special thing going on. please don't mess it up...
speaker1: don't mess it up?! you're talking about my wife! my house! stupid- ass!
speaker2: dude, you can't do this to me.
speaker1: oh yes i can...

speaker1: hi. 
speaker1: so how was that new pool cleaner?
speaker2: um... what do you mean?
speaker1: what do you think i mean?... did he do a good job cleaning the pool?
speaker2: ah... well--
speaker1: did he get all the... leaves? it doesn't really look that clean. i mean i'm looking at it, and i'd say it's pretty filthy. did the guy even clean it at all? it sure doesn't look like it.
speaker2: well yeah, i guess he didn't do a very good job.
speaker1: i think he did a horrible job. i don't think we should use him anymore.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: are you all right, joel? you want an aspirin or anything?

speaker1: wow, i don't think you've ever been to my house before. have you? 
speaker2: yeah, i don't think so. i would've remembered...
speaker1: this is my half brother phil.
speaker2: hi... hey step, can we talk in another room.
speaker1: sure, let's go out back.

speaker1: you know, my lawyer told me not to talk to you. 
speaker1: you're not here to try to talk me out of suing are you?
speaker2: oh, no... no, i'm just kind of curious about... ah... so you've been going out with cindy, huh?
speaker1: yes sir. she's my girlfriend. we might even get married after all this lawsuit-settlement stuff gets worked out.
speaker2: .so some of the guys at work are saying you gave cindy that black eye.
speaker1: what? that ain't true at all.
speaker2: yeah, i know it's not.
speaker1: she got it from falling down some stairs.
speaker2: hmm... look, you might wanna be careful with cindy.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: well, i'm not sure how to put this, but... you know, you got a lot of money coming your way with this settlement. you might wanna be

speaker1: you sure about that? 
speaker2: oh yeah. i didn't tell her about it for a while 'cuz i was kind of embarrassed, you know? you don't tell a girl you just met that you lost one of your balls. especially a girl as hot as cindy.
speaker1: yeah...
speaker1: you know she lives with this guy willie right?
speaker2: that's her ex. she broke up with him. she's gonna move out. she just needs to get all her stuff outta there.
speaker1: you sure about that?
speaker2: oh yeah. she's moving in with me.
speaker1: oh. hmm...
speaker2: look, i know cindy's got some problems, but she means well. she's the best thing that ever happened to me.
speaker1: well, okay... if you say so. another thing -- you just might want to watch your back. some of the guys at work who think you gave cindy the black eye were talking about paying you a visit -- you know, getting even.
speaker2: oh. well i'm not worried about that. i could kick anyone's at that whole company.

speaker1: no brad, we can't. i'm sorry, but we have to stop doing this. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: it's not right. i feel horrible. besides, i think joel's getting suspicious. and you gotta start cleaning the pool too.
speaker2: but i've never felt this way about anyone before. and i've been with a lot of chicks.
speaker1: uh-huh... look brad, the truth is i love my husband. i really do. this was all a big mistake. i'm sorry. i don't know what got into me, but we have to stop this. i want to make my marriage work again. i'm going to tell joel about the whole thing and just hope he forgives me. and even if he doesn't, at least i won't be carrying around this horrible feeling. i just can't stand that he doesn't know.
speaker2: uh... this doesn't mean we can't still see each other though, right?
speaker1: ah, yes it does.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because of all the things i just said.

speaker1: do you need me to say them again? 
speaker2: can i see you tomorrow?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how about next week?
speaker1: no. look, you gotta go brad. joel could be home any second.
speaker2: i'll call you tomorrow.
speaker1: just trying to get rid of
speaker3: okay. okay, just go and we'll talk later.
speaker1: what a moron.

speaker1: so... you ready? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: the meeting with step's lawyer. or lawyers i should say. it's today remember?
speaker2: oh alright.

speaker1: .you see, if both his had been knocked clean off, he would be a good case, but not a great case: a man with no is no man at all. he's a freak. he's barely human. he's gross. and a jury will never feel like they can walk in the shoes of a ball-less, neutered, he/she freak. but step. he's still got one ball - barely. he's still a man. a man who's very manhood has been jeopardized, but still a man. and that manhood, that very sense of what you are as a human being is hanging by a thread. you can't get more dramatic than that. that brave ball, hanging on for dear life, hanging on for justice, is going to be the hero of this trial. i'm tellin' ya this step guy is the holy grail, the powerball jackpot. and you all laughed at me when i bought those bus bench ads. but i knew the of those poor slobs that sit on those benches and ride those sweaty, stinking, cattle cars are our future. and i -- joel and brian walk in. 
speaker1: oh, hello. i'm joe adler...

speaker1: .and when they sell the company, joel and brian are gonna be the one's who get rich, and-- 
speaker2: and we're the ones doing all the work.
speaker3: that's right.
speaker1: it's man. we should get a piece of it. i work my off.
speaker2: gabrielle and i work harder than anybody. i should be making what brian makes. if you add up all the crates i move, i lift 10,000 pounds a day. minimum.
speaker3: that's right. here he's gonna make a million dollars, and we're the ones who do everything. i went to college. for three years.
speaker2: if we quit, this place couldn't run. they wouldn't be able to sell this place for anything.
speaker4: that's why what we should do is, is we should all go on strike -- demand stock in the company before it sells. if general mills knew we were on strike, they wouldn't buy this place until the strike was over. that way they'd have to give us stock.
speaker1: that's right man. we should do it.

speaker1: that's right. i could get a job at gemco like that. at gemco, all the employees are owners -- even says so on the name tags. 
speaker2: mmm hmm. i could get a job at southwest airlines...

speaker1: ok gentlemen. we've gone through everything and the only way we would even begin to consider a settlement would be to the tune of the number you see on the bottom of page 18. does everyone have this? 
speaker2: what!!!? we don't have this much money! not even close!
speaker1: not in cash you don't. of course not. but if you were to sell off your assets: the property lease, the equipment, the--
speaker2: what the ff-- are you me!? that would bankrupt us!
speaker3: this is what i've been trying to tell you joel...

speaker1: if you think i'm just going to give up this entire company that i built from the ground up-- 
speaker2: how about what my client gave up!? his testicles! how about that!?
speaker2: in fact, i'll make a deal with you - - we will drop this case right now if you come over here and put your testicles right here
speaker2: and let me slam this door like this...
speaker2: go ahead. we can settle this right now -- call it even. i will drop this case right now if you let me slam your in this door,

speaker1: it was an accident! 
speaker2: not according to our investigation. we believe that, in fact, there was gross negligence...

speaker1: mmm hmm... 
speaker2: see, now they're probably up there negotiating right now -- cuttin' up the pie that we baked. that's what it looks like to me. the employees all nod in agreement.
speaker3: we gotta act fast. they could be about to close the deal.
speaker2: yeah, and leave us out in the cold.
speaker3: yeah, then it's too late. if they've already sold it we can't get a piece of it. we gotta act fast. we need to do one of those walk outs.
speaker2: well, we better do it now.
speaker3: okay, who's in? we need a show of force. come on, it's now or never...

speaker1: okay then, let me go back to my previous offer: i will gladly come down on that price -- i'll come all the way down to zero and drop this case -- if you go over there right now and slam your testicles in that door! because-- 
speaker2: i don't wanna slam my testicles in the door! i want you to be reasonable! you won't even budge one penny! come on!
speaker1: like i say, if you slam your--
speaker2: i'll slam your in the door!
speaker1: i'm sorry, did you just threaten me?
speaker3: look, we need to cool off a minute. we'll be right back.

speaker1: umm... we were just uh... 
speaker2: well, rory was talking about how you guys are doing this deal with general mills and we just think that ah... we were considering the idea of ah...
speaker1: well, we just think that we should maybe get a piece of it, you know cuz we do all the work... and if we don't... um...
speaker3: you know what? fine. fine. you're all in charge -- all of you.
speaker4: as of now. you run the place. go ahead. in fact, you can go up there right now and meet with adler. he may slam your in the door, but woohoo! you're the boss!

speaker1: i'm not sure how to say this, but -- well, you've been so caught up in you're work lately, and i'm here alone all day and sometimes i just-- 
speaker2: you banged the pool cleaner.
speaker1: wha...
speaker2: that's what you're trying to tell me right? you had with brad?
speaker1: you knew?
speaker2: yes i knew. i hired him.
speaker1: well i know you hired him, but how did you know about--
speaker2: i don't mean i hired him to clean the pool, i mean i hired him to have with you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: he's a gigolo suzie.
speaker1: but... what... why?
speaker2: i hired him to have an affair with you so that i could have an affair without feeling guilty. i was really drunk and on some kind of horse tranquilizer and--

speaker1: brad was getting paid?... so you've been paying brad this whole time? all fifteen times?! 
speaker2: fifteen times?! christ suzie! joel sinks into his chair, shaking his head.
speaker2: i only paid him once -- well, twice. the rest was on the house.
speaker1: you wanted to have an affair with another woman?
speaker2: yes. but i didn't.
speaker1: you
speaker2: oh, i'm the asshole?
speaker1: yes! how could you?
speaker2: how could i? how could you?!!! you didn't have to have with him. you could've simply said "no thanks. just clean the pool," but you didn't, did you?! no, you took him up on his little offer and had with him -- fifteen times!
speaker1: none of this would've happened if you hadn't hired him.

speaker1: okay. i'll admit, i made a big mistake. i was drunk, on drugs, stressed, sexually frustrated and i shouldn't have hired a male prostitute to seduce you. but if you had simply been faithful, none of this would've happened. 
speaker2: you're sick, you know that?
speaker1: what do you see in brad anyway? he's borderline retarded. you probably could've been arrested for having with a guy that dumb.
speaker2: that's it. i'm leaving.
speaker1: no. you're not leaving me. i'm leaving you!
speaker2: fine.
speaker3: oh, hey guys. glad i caught ya. you guys hardly ever answer the door. heh heh.
speaker2: now's not a good time nathan.
speaker3: oh, you guys goin' somewhere?

speaker1: no. look, we can't talk right now. 
speaker2: well, you think i could go ahead and get that check from ya then? i'm just trying to balance my checkbook here...
speaker1: now's not a good time.
speaker2: when would be a good time, you think?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: see the thing is--
speaker1: okay tomorrow.
speaker2: great, what time?
speaker1: i don't know. just come by tomorrow. i can't talk now.
speaker2: okay great. and if you could just go ahead and have that check, that'd be great. it's a hundred and ten. that's two plates at

speaker1: hey man... i know you probably want to kick my ass, but-- 
speaker2: i couldn't kick your if i wanted to. you're a good 10 years younger than me, and i'm a pussy. so why don't you just leave me alone.
speaker1: i just wanted to tell you, i'm not gonna see suzie anymore. you don't have to worry.
speaker1: the last time i was over there, she broke it off; told me to quit coming over... she said she was gonna tell you everything -- you know, about us. she's really into you dude. i guess that's why she married you an' you're a lucky guy... sorry if i messed up.
speaker2: why'd you have to get hung up on suzie? you could have any girl you want.
speaker1: yeah, but i want suzie. and i can't have her.
speaker2: you had her fifteen times.

speaker1: yeah, but she doesn't love me dude. it's just not the same... anyway, just wanted to tell you that. 
speaker2: well... you told me.
speaker1: alright, later...
speaker1: oh, one more thing... i quit my landscaping job... and i don't think i'm really cut out to be a gigolo. so i was wondering if you had any openings over there at your extract place?
speaker2: brad, you had with my wife.
speaker1: okay... sorry man.
speaker2: hey brad?...
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: i don't know... maybe come by the office tomorrow. fill out an application. i'll see what i can do.
speaker1: cool. thanks man.

speaker1: we're screwed. general mills has pretty much withdrawn the offer pending a really favorable settlement with step. not only do we not sell the company, we could wind up bankrupt. 
speaker2: so i don't sell the company, don't get the money, i'm bankrupt, i don't get cindy, i paid a guy to have with my wife, and she actually did it...
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: nothing.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: 
speaker1: why are you cleaning the pool yourself? that new guy didn't work out?

speaker1: yeah, didn't work out. 
speaker2: boy, you just can't get good help, eh?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: so, did you get a chance to write that check?
speaker1: look nathan, joel and i aren't going to that dinner okay?
speaker2: well gee, i wish you would've told me that before i went and bought the tickets.
speaker1: joel never agreed to this nathan, and neither did i.
speaker2: well, it sure sounded like you guys were going. leslie was gonna talk to you about it, but you didn't return our calls. i mean, i already bought these tickets. they're nonrefundable. i really wish you guys had been a little more clear with me...
speaker1: okay, let me be really clear with you then. when we say "i don't think so," or even "i'm not sure," that means "no." why can't you understand that?
speaker2: well, i just--

speaker1: shut up! in fact, let me be even more clear with you. we don't like you! is that clear enough? you're dull, you never shut up, you never listen, and we don't want anything to do with you ever again! 
speaker1: is that clear enough for you nathan?! is that...?
speaker1: nathan?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: what're you...? what's up? how'd you know i was here?
speaker1: ah, actually, i'm staying here too. down on the first floor, around the back. i thought i saw you so i ah...
speaker2: well, come in.
speaker2: do you want something to drink? i think all i have is diet coke.
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker2: have a seat. joel remains standing, looking at the purse.
speaker1: that's mary's purse... isn't it?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: right there. that's mary's purse.
speaker2: oh that? no, that's mine... so how are things at work?
speaker1: that's mary's purse. you stole it, didn't you?

speaker1: no. it probably just looks like it. there's a lot of those. 
speaker2: i've never seen another one. you probably have sylvia's wallet in here somewhere too, don't you? and everything else that's been stolen from my employees.
speaker1: joel, are you okay?
speaker2: no, i'm not. that's mary's purse goddammit! okay? everyone blamed hector. he almost got fired.
speaker1: joel, i don't know what you're--
speaker2: hector! hard working guy, never did anything wrong. and what are you doing with step? you're trying to screw him out of his settlement money aren't you?
speaker1: i have no idea what you're talking about.
speaker2: yes you do! you're the only reason he's suing us aren't you? you know how much work it took for me to build up that company? you just don't care about anybody do you? what are you, some kind of sociopath?
speaker2: you can't even admit that you stole this purse can you? you just can't do it.

speaker1: in fact, you probably can't tell the truth about much of anything, can you?... 
speaker1: i bet cindy's not even your real name is it? who are you? where the are you from?
speaker1: you can't answer can you? because if you said one true thing, you'd have to tell the truth about something else and then it would all unravel wouldn't it? then you'd have to admit that you stole this purse and knows what else.
speaker1: well, i'm leaving now.
speaker1: and i'm taking this purse with me. if it really is yours, you can call the police and tell 'em i stole it... in fact, i'm gonna call the police and report it...
speaker2: please don't...
speaker1: what?

speaker1: please don't report it to the police. i'm on probation. i'll go to jail. for a long time. 
speaker2: well... maybe you should've thought about that before you started ripping off my employees.
speaker1: joel? please? i'll leave step alone. i promise. he'll drop the lawsuit.
speaker2: how do i know that?
speaker1: you can keep the purse. if i don't leave him alone; if he doesn't drop the lawsuit, then you can report me. please?
speaker2: hmm... i guess that ah... do you have sylvia's wallet, and jim's watch? can i get those too?
speaker2: well... okay then. i guess that works.
speaker2: and i guess you just admitted that you stole the purse. that's good, i guess... a step in the right direction...

speaker1: so what's your deal anyway?... i mean, how did you end up like this? 
speaker1: .ah... cindy?
speaker1: okay, now you see... that's what i'm talking about. you're trying to manipulate me now, and i'm not gonna fall for it...
speaker1: i really hope you're not faking this right now, because i'm feeling really bad. are you faking it?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i was just curious, you know, how a person ends up like... this... cindy suddenly starts bawling hysterically.
speaker1: never mind. i'm sorry...

speaker1: cindy? 
speaker1: oh

speaker1: joel hasn't been in all morning. 
speaker2: if we come in late, we get fired. and here we're working our tails off, and he's gonna get rich.
speaker3: here you go mary.

speaker1: and by the way, hector didn't take it. cindy did. 
speaker2: can you believe that? blaming cindy just to protect hector.
speaker3: step's here to see you.
speaker1: really? bring him in.
speaker3: no, he's outside. at the loading dock. wants to talk to you alone back there for some reason.
speaker3: "man to man."
speaker1: hi step...
speaker4: hey.
speaker1: how you doin'? how's your, ah...
speaker4: looking down at his
speaker5: oh it's okay. some days it still hurts, but they've got me on some pills. it's not too bad i guess...

speaker1: well... that's good. 
speaker2: look, ah... cindy left me. joel's nods, not surprised, but sympathetic.
speaker1: wow... bummer...
speaker2: yeah, it is a bummer... you know, i thought the worst part was having my knocked off, but you know what the worse part is? dealin' with all this i'm sick of that adler guy tellin' me what to do. he's a real
speaker1: yeah, he sure is.
speaker2: the truth is, i just want to have my old life back -- i just want to go back to work. i'm a workin' man; that's what i do.
speaker1: yeah... i'm beginning to think i might be the same way... i'm a little worried about what i'd do with too much time on my hands.
speaker2: i just lay around and watch tv all day.
speaker1: yeah,... i think i do a lot worse.
speaker2: the problem is, if i bankrupt the company, there won't be a job to go back to.
speaker1: you don't have to bankrupt the company.

speaker1: yeah, but then if i drop the lawsuit, you'll sell the company, and the new company might not hire me. 
speaker2: well, maybe i don't have to sell the company... you know i've been thinking; all these years i've been building this company, dreaming about the day i could sell it and retire, but what would i really do if i retired? it's like that old saying -- it's not about the destination, it's about the journey?
speaker2: i guess what i'm saying is, too much free time might not be such a good thing -- like that old saying, idle hands are the devil's playground?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i don't do much book readin'.
speaker2: what i'm saying is, i'm thinking maybe i won't sell the company...
speaker1: really?
speaker2: that is, if you dropped the lawsuit. -- and remember, you'll still get that insurance money -- probably a couple hundred thousand.
speaker1: hmm. that sounds fair... but under one condition...
speaker2: what's that?

speaker1: you make me floor manager. 
speaker2: deal.

speaker1: hold the line! 
speaker1: okay, listen up everybody. i've decided not to sell the company...
speaker1: and i'm making step the new floor manager.
speaker1: and if anyone doesn't like it, i hear they're hiring over at gemco... but just remember, at gemco, the owner doesn't know your names; you never even meet him, he's at an office up in chicago somewhere and you get an auto- response if you try to email him to complain about anything. here, you can come up to my office any time you have a problem. thanks.
speaker2: huh? you're not selling?

speaker1: it's about the journey brian. the journey. 
speaker2: you know, if joel's going to put him in charge, we should go on strike. you know, at gemco, the union handles the strikes and you don't even have to-- pull out as step cuts her off.
speaker3: quit yapping and get back to work or you're fired.

speaker1: hi... you doing okay? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm okay.

speaker1: i heard you were right there when it happened. that must've been rough. 
speaker2: it was horrible joel. he came over to ask for that check, and i just...
speaker2: .i just lost it. i started yelling at him. i said horrible things. he had an aneurism and i probably caused it.
speaker2: i think the last thing i said to him was "shut up." those were the last words he heard.
speaker1: it's okay, it's not your fault... it's not your fault.
speaker2: it could happen to any of us joel. any of us could have an aneurism.
speaker1: yeah, i know... i know... but we probably won't. it'll be alright. suzie starts to regain her composure.
speaker1: you wanna go get something to eat... or something?
speaker2: yeah, okay. sure.

speaker1: here... 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: maybe we should've been married in a church like that one. instead of the botanical gardens.
speaker2: i thought you liked the botanical gardens?
speaker1: yeah, but... a church just seems more -- i don't know -- official.
speaker2: you think it would've made a difference?
speaker1: i don't know... so, are we still married?
speaker2: well, legally yes.
speaker1: i mean otherwise.
speaker2: hmmm... we can talk about it i suppose.
speaker1: alright.
speaker1: you know, this is really bad, but... oh never mind.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: well, as i was looking down at nathan there, i was thinking... that's the longest i've ever seen him with his mouth shut. 
speaker2: joel!

