speaker1: hurricane beth, huh? had an ex-wife named beth, this is pretty much par for the course. this area got the worst of it, i hope these guys are all intact- 
speaker2: that's enough, lieutenant.

speaker1: holy that's live fire! 
speaker2: who's shooting at them-
speaker1: i can't see-
speaker2: that was one of their own, he just shot one of their own men-
speaker1: who was trying to shoot them-
speaker2: get us on the ground!

speaker1: tell the truth, vic. you made these with a blender, right? he grins and we get our first good look at 
speaker2: don't like 'em, don't eat 'em, don't make no difference to me.
speaker1: you know that was like a quadruple negative?
speaker1: can i at least have a drink?
speaker2: it's ten thirty in the morning.
speaker1: yeah, if you've slept.
speaker2: you know the law - no liquor before noon. could lose my license.
speaker1: don't you mean "don't need no liquor license not taken away from me"?
speaker2: hurricane kept you up, too?
speaker1: yeah, and i could've used the sleep. i'm supposed to meet people here tonight, try and get some work going.
speaker3: ...is expected to announce the grand jury indictments in the guissepe torres police corruption case as early as tomorrow afternoon. speculations abound that up to ten former homicide detectives could be named in the proceedings-

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: bill styles...
speaker1: who?
speaker2: old friend. haven't talked to him in- 911. can i use your phone?
speaker2: hey, bill, it's tom. long time no. . . whoa, whoa, slow down. yeah... yeah, of course i'll come. an hour.
speaker1: what was that?
speaker2: i gotta go out to mckinley.

speaker1: this is totally unnecessary- 
speaker2: he asked to see a policeman, we're getting him a policeman .
speaker1: but this guy you called, he's not even army-
speaker2: he's former army and the best i've ever seen in a room. besides, he knows the territory, we did basic together here. you've had three hours with dunbar and haven't gotten a peep, we need to take a different tack.
speaker1: he's not army, it's not official-
speaker2: then it's unofficial.
speaker1: doesn't get any unofficialer than that...
speaker3: how are you?
speaker2: been better. i read about what's been happening with you... i should have called-
speaker3: what kind of trouble are you in?
speaker3: that bad?
speaker2: would i have called you if it wasn't?

speaker1: tell me what i can do. 
speaker2: you can get us some answers. hardy takes off his sunglasses, noticing her.
speaker3: this is warrant officer julia osborne, the closest thing we have to an in- house investigator.
speaker1: and here you are going out of house.
speaker2: hostile and uncooperative.
speaker1: fantastic. you want to tell me what's going on?

speaker1: the official term for it is "clusterfuck" . by the time beth hit us, i'd canceled all off base exercises save one - a six man cadet team and their drill out in the bush. we're missing three and the sergeant. the cadets are in their eighth week of the cycle, nobody here knows much about them, up to and including their names. but the sergeant... 
speaker2: it's not west, is it? tell me it's not west.
speaker2: ah, christ
speaker3: you knew sergeant west?
speaker2: he was our drill here. man's older than sand.

speaker1: a few years ago, the army picked our good buddy as their go to non-com to trot out to the press to talk about the kinder, gentler military. he even did the standard video greeting played to all incoming basic cadets across the country. 
speaker2: well, he's a good soldier.
speaker2: i didn't mean that as a compliment.
speaker3: sergeant west's served for twenty- three years. he's the public face of the modern army.
speaker2: and you notice i'm not in the army anymore.
speaker1: the exercise was one of his section eight "private sessions". left around 2100 yesterday and were scheduled for pick up at 0630 this morning.
speaker2: and the problem is you only got three.
speaker1: no, the problem is one's dead, one's got a bullet in his arm, and one won't talk. the one who won't talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pick-up.
speaker2: i'm assuming that's what made him the dead one?
speaker1: cadet roberto r. nunez. killed right in front of me.
speaker3: search parties for the others are fanning out in a ten click radius from the pickup. if they're hurt and we can get to them in time...

speaker1: i called the jag corps, the two cadets we retrieved are to be flown to d.c. 
speaker2: which gives us about five hours.
speaker1: the guy in interrogation said he'd only talk to a cop.
speaker2: and i'm the closest thing to it, right?
speaker1: tom, bottom line: i let those kids go out there. if jag shows up and i don't have any answers for them, my career is finished-
speaker2: i'm not gonna let that happen.
speaker1: thank you. osborne will brief you on the cadets. and tom? it really is good to see you.

speaker1: gotta be honest, i love what you've done with the place- 
speaker2: you and the colonel go back.
speaker1: he got me through basic and a lot of other stuff. i owe him.
speaker2: you're the tom hardy i've been reading about in the papers, right? new orleans pd fired you for taking bribes from guissepe torres.

speaker1: it was for suspicion of bribery, it's really all in the wording- 
speaker2: wording and your friendship with the colonel aside, i'm not comfortable having you involved in this.
speaker1: subtlety really isn't one of you finer points, is it, osborne?
speaker1: three things. first - you don't have a choice. second- i've never taken a bribe in my life. and third - i'm still a little drunk from last night, so if i skip over the witty banter and move forward to straight hitting on you, try not to take offense. tell me about the two guys.
speaker2: hurricane knocked out our mainframe, so all we have are their dogtags.
speaker1: levi? who names their kid levi-
speaker3: senator jonathan kendall, of ohio.
speaker1: remind me to thank bill for mentioning that on the phone-
speaker2: kendall junior is still in surgery, so he won't be available to answer for his name or anything else for another hour - the cadet we're talking to first is dunbar.
speaker1: he's in interrogation?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: move him.

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: because interrogation rooms look suspiciously like interrogation rooms, which doesn't exactly put people at ease. is he cute?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: is dunbar cute?
speaker1: that is the most unprofessional-
speaker2: is he handsome, self assured, carry himself well, does he look you in the eyes or down at the floor, does he have good bones, suggesting good breeding, does he slouch or sit up straight - these are important questions, as they reveal a great deal about this man's character so please get over yourself for two and a half seconds and tell me is he cute?
speaker2: thank you. at some point in there i'm gonna rub my nose. when i do, go at him with everything you got.
speaker1: good cop/bad cop?
speaker2: something like that.
speaker2: oh, and osborne? you have any donuts around here?

speaker1: i questioned him for three hours and he didn't make a sound. you don't have a badge, he won't talk to you. 
speaker2: ten bucks says i have him talking in under three minutes.
speaker1: go.

speaker1: cadet dunbar, good morning! i'm tom hardy and i believe you've already met officer osborne. i understand you had a rough time of it last night? 
speaker1: not talking, huh? you probably just want to get some food and some sleep. they feed you yet?
speaker2: dunbar eyes it, wary but definitely wanting it.
speaker1: go on. you can eat in front of someone and still not talk to them - my parents did it for years.
speaker1: want another one?

speaker1: maybe later. ray, let me say this up front - i'm not a cop. 
speaker1: i used to be, but that's beside the point. who i am doesn't really matter; what matters is that right now, you're in a shitload of trouble. you understand that, right?
speaker1: now, i don't know if you did what you did in self defense and frankly i don't really care. i'm just doing a favor for colonel styles because he wants to know if anyone else who's still out there is in need of assistance. to be honest with you, though, i don't care about that either.
speaker1: i don't know those guys, you do. they die, to me, it's like seeing a couple people died in a fire on the news - tragic, but it doesn't affect me. the only thing i care about is i agreed to do a favor for a friend and try and talk to you till your transpo shows up. you like baseball?
speaker1: i could talk baseball for days. batting averages, era's, i got statistics in my brain, i don't know how i remember them. it's freaky. you wanna talk baseball?
speaker1: come on ray, we're gonna be here five hours, we gotta talk about something. so who do you like?

speaker1: i don't like baseball. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i asked for a policeman.
speaker2: you're under military arrest, it's not gonna happen. what's wrong with baseball?
speaker1: it's... too slow.
speaker2: well, it's a game of anticipation, that's the beauty.
speaker1: i just don't like it.
speaker2: what do you like then?

speaker1: i don't know... i like the army. 
speaker2: c'mon, ray, everyone hates the army during basic. i'll tell you straight, i hated it here.

speaker1: you did basic here? 
speaker2: fifteen years ago under sergeant west. piece of work, that guy. i remember, he used to have these two silver .45's with ivory handles and if you weren't quick enough, he'd

speaker1: knock you on the head with one of them. he still carry those guns? 
speaker1: i was also his " knife dummy" . see, west used to say he could slit a man from stem to sternum in three seconds. he'd use this length of pipe to demonstrate and if you were the knife dummy, you'd spend all day getting a pipe rammed into your if you weren't fast enough to defend yourself. that was a loooong day.
speaker1: incidentally, ray, i promised them i'd ask where west and the others are. can we get to them?
speaker2: there's no need...
speaker1: they're dead, aren't they?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: you kill them? 
speaker2: the colonel saw you shoot nunez, you're a murderer-
speaker1: see, ray, this is what we call "good cop, bad cop".

speaker1: she shouts, i stand up for you, you're grateful, a bond of trust is established. 
speaker1: but i don't want to play games. that's why you're not in an interrogation room, with one of those two way mirrors - everyone knows those things are two way, right?
speaker1: right. now, i'm gonna go get you another donut and you think about whether you want to talk more, okay?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: baseball? 
speaker2: believe somebody owes me ten dollars-
speaker1: you made me look like an idiot-
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry, i didn't know the object of the interrogation is to make you look good- everyone knows good cop, bad cop - by admitting it i appeared trustworthy.
speaker3: you think he did it?
speaker1: no-
speaker2: yes- they stop, looking at each other.

speaker1: why'd you ask for a cop, ray? 
speaker2: i'm not telling you what happened.
speaker1: okay... but i would like to know about the other cadets. what they were like - nice guys? dunbar takes a deep breath.
speaker2: some.
speaker1: tell me about them.

speaker1: first day was when i met pike. sarge hated him from the beginning. 
speaker2: you have just made the worst mistake of your lives! you have chosen to join my army! this army is my mother, my father, and my little virgin sister and i will not allow anyone or anything that is not up to my standards near her pretty little virgin cooze, do you understand me - give me a sir, yes, sir!
speaker3: sir, yes, sir!

speaker1: those who i deem unworthy to pass through this camp will quit, and those who refuse to quit i will kill. you ever hear of a training accident - give me a sir, yes, sir! 
speaker2: sir, yes, sir!
speaker1: in my time i have killed sixteen men for the good of my country, sixteen men whose entrance into this army i could not condone, as it would weaken the fabric of this nation's defense! this base suffers an average of three training accidents a year, unfortunate incidents that i will not hesitate to repeat if you cross me, understand - give me a sir, yes, sir!
speaker2: sir, yes, sir!
speaker1: so forget what you've seen on sixty minutes about the kinder, gentler military - you will either succeed, quit, or die by my hand!
speaker1: my power here is absolute, isn't that right, nigger?
speaker3: sir, yes, sir!
speaker1: i hail from biloxi, mississippi where we string greasy necks up from tree branches when the mood strikes us you have a problem with that?
speaker3: sir, no, sir!

speaker1: what the is this? you lay a hand on me while i'm trying to do my duty and rid the world of you? 
speaker1: get the up, you're still in formation, get the up!
speaker1: what the have you done to that uniform, take it off, take it off, take it off!
speaker1: get those pants off, i want you buck naked, you don't deserve to wear these beautiful united states army issue clothes!
speaker1: cadet, what's your name!
speaker2: sir, dunbar, sir!
speaker1: you know how to work a pistol, dunbar?
speaker2: sir, yes, sir!
speaker1: dunbar you are to stand here and guard this for the next twenty- four hours! he is not to be given food, water, or clothes! if he so much as moves, you are to blow his brains out, is that clear?
speaker2: sir, yes, sir!

speaker1: the rest of you, fallout for physicals! 
speaker2: fifteen guys quit that day. but not pike.

speaker1: fellas lived in daily fear of being sectioned and with good reason, too. 
speaker1: they figured we were the boys who'd meet with a "training accident" .
speaker2: are you saying sergeant west tried to kill you?
speaker1: no, ma'am, he just wanted us to quit. making it through was kind of an honor. some of the other guys on the base told us that if you could hack section eight, command would consider you at the top of the class.
speaker3: that's not exactly true... i'm living proof. how did you get sectioned, ray?

speaker1: that first night with pike. i made the mistake of letting him sit down at around 0300. 
speaker2: tell us about the other guys, the ones west weeded out.
speaker1: there were six of us...

speaker1: mueller was from tulsa, a real good ol' boy type. one of those "his daddy's daddy's daddy died at bull run and no bleeding heart yankee was gonna take away his scatter gun" . he idolized west. 
speaker1: and nunez idolized mueller. big fella from new mexico. after he got sectioned he just followed mueller around like a lap dog. he wasn't mean like mueller, though, didn't have it in him.
speaker1: but childs did. didn't talk to anyone, but you got this feeling something was wrong with him, like real wrong. type of guy you felt uncomfortable going to sleep near.
speaker1: pike i told you about. he took the brunt of it from mueller and west. once they found it out he was a convict they were merciless.

speaker1: he'd been busted for auto theft, judge gave him the option of jailor the army. he made the wrong choice. 
speaker1: finally kendall and me. kendall was a smart guy, we got along okay. pike and i tried to help him, but...
speaker1: he was sickly. had that shaking thing, whatd'yacall it, epoxy?
speaker2: epilepsy.
speaker1: yeah. spent half his time in the infirmary. only reason he enlisted was his father. west didn't section him till last week.

speaker1: and those were the guys who went on the exercise with you? 
speaker2: yeah. and that's all i'm saying.
speaker1: you smoke, ray?
speaker3: this is one of those interrogation tricks, isn't it? you don't give me a cigarette till i tell you more.
speaker1: no, actually, i just left mine in the car and was hoping you had some.
speaker1: my brand. must be my lucky day.

speaker1: he takes one and lights it. dunbar does the same. 
speaker2: let me ask you one thing. you seem like a good guy, ray. you carried kendall wounded to the pickup. so what i don't get is what you did to make nunez want to kill you?
speaker3: sirs?

speaker1: he's not done by a longshot, i can get more out of him- 
speaker2: he can wait. kendall's out of surgery.

speaker1: why'd you join the army? 
speaker2: you really want to make banal chit- chat like that now?
speaker1: you're right. we should sit in silence.
speaker2: we're in the middle of a murder case-
speaker1: best time for banal chit-chat.
speaker2: what is that?

speaker1: microrecorder for kendall - didn't have- time to wire his room. now tell me why you joined the army or i'll jab this pen through your neck. 
speaker2: typical army brat story. dad was noncom, mom was a nurse. there was never any real doubt of joining up.
speaker1: you had a mobile of bayonets above your crib.
speaker2: something like that. you?
speaker1: i lost a bet.
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker1: yeah. that's just the story i tell the girls to get them into bed. truth is... i don't know. the whole honor and duty thing. make a difference in the world, like that. didn't really work out.
speaker2: i bet that's the second story you tell the girls to get them into bed, after you make them laugh with the first one.
speaker2: this is the straight hitting on me you were talking about, isn't it?
speaker1: the very same.
speaker2: you do understand that there's absolutely no way i could ever be attracted to you, right?

speaker1: i plan to grow on you. 
speaker2: you're off to a late start.
speaker1: so noted.
speaker1: you guys really got the kicked out of you here.
speaker2: imagine what it must have been like for them out there. what do you think of dunbar?
speaker1: he's telling the truth, up to a point.
speaker2: what point?

speaker1: something wrong? 
speaker2: being back here. gives me the willies.
speaker1: not the happiest of memories?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: it is. 
speaker2: remember, he's the son of a senator, so go easy. kid gloves.
speaker1: got it.

speaker1: you... i've seen you around the base. 
speaker1: you're not army, are you?
speaker2: coast guard, special detective detail. we feel this incident may have put the beaches of florida at risk.
speaker1: that's it. you're that policeman with friends in low places. tell me, how's guissepe torres doing these days? those racketeering indictments must have really been a downer-
speaker2: levi, you got about four hours before armed men show up here, put you on a plane to washington, and lock you in a very small dark room. i suggest you talk to us.
speaker1: i've done nothing wrong. i'm the victim here.
speaker2: but not the only victim, right?
speaker1: my, my, my, how did things turn so hostile so quickly? if i didn't know better, i'd say you two were out to get me.

speaker1: we just want- 
speaker2: what, "the truth"? please. there are degrees of truth, officer, always degrees. things are not what they seem.
speaker3: it's too early in the day for me to give a about some pissant cadet's bad version of "intrigue". you want to talk to us, send word over to the brig. let's go.
speaker3: you're working too hard, levi. i can tell cause you're sweating. and you're sweating cause you have no idea what dunbar's already told us.
speaker1: that was kid gloves?
speaker3: have no fear, osborne, we have not yet begun to fight.
speaker1: but we have to question him- thought you didn't have cigarettes-
speaker3: i lied. wait for it...
speaker4: cadet kendall-
speaker3: we're on our way.

speaker1: sergeant west is dead isn't he? 
speaker1: and the other three cadets?
speaker1: feel free to elaborate .
speaker2: my father is a powerful man. over the years he's used that power to protect me, in one form or another, from certain... unpleasantries. i am a homosexual.
speaker1: senator daddy must be thrilled.
speaker2: he is not, shall we say, wild about the idea. he has asked me on numerous occasions to be more discreet about my proclivities, and i have done my best to oblige him. however, in the last four weeks, i began a relationship with another cadet.
speaker1: i think you just blew "don't ask, don't tell" out of the water.
speaker2: the sergeant discovered this relationship and wanted me expelled. my father interceded, so instead, west sectioned me and made sure every other cadet knew that i was gay.
speaker3: he couldn't kick you out so he wanted you to quit on your own.
speaker2: he wanted more than that.

speaker1: more intrigue, levi? 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: it was the regular tuesday night drill. he'd let us sleep for an hour and then wake us up, drag us out to the bayou, and work us all night, separate from the others. 
speaker2: get up, get up, get up! we're going on a little night hike, boys - muster in five on the south tarmac!
speaker3: hurricane's due after midnight and we're still going out?
speaker4: toughens us up, pike. you don't like it, quit.
speaker1: maybe we shouldn't go.
speaker4: the speaks.
speaker1: you ever been in a hurricane, mueller?
speaker5: you really heard this?

speaker1: you know popham, works in the kitchen? he told me it was on the radio. 
speaker2: we should tell him we're not going.
speaker3: oh, yeah, "excuse me, sergeant, sir, we don't feel like going out - we don't want to get rained on." he'll kick our from here to cleveland.
speaker4: he's right. we don't have a choice.

speaker1: a rifle, a pistol, and three phosphorous grenades to a man! this is live fire, so keep those safetied until we touch down; i don't want anyone shooting their off! 
speaker1: some of you may have heard there's a hurricane coming! american soldiers do not wait for good weather - they do not wait for a bright sunshiney day to do their duty! an american soldier learns to operate in the worst conditions and turn said conditions into an advantage against their enemy! anyone who thinks these conditions are too harsh, feel free to lay down and die, you get me?
speaker2: sir, yes, sir!
speaker1: lz is two clicks north of a cabin, you are to split into teams of two

speaker1: and work your way through your designated area blasting as many targets as you can find! each area has twenty targets, first team to take all twenty and find the cabin wins! teams are as follows - dunbar and nunez, pike and mueller, kendall and childs! 
speaker1: i will be in the areas monitoring your progress and if i see anyone drag i will personally slit you stem to sternum and leave you for dead! fall out!
speaker1: you're gonna die tonight, faggot.
speaker2: he said what?
speaker3: "you're gonna die tonight, faggot" .
speaker2: no one else heard it?
speaker3: he whispered it in my ear.
speaker4: levi, i don't know if you're familiar with investigative work, but we have this little thing called "motive" and you just gave yourself one.
speaker3: you said you wanted to know what happened- i'm telling you the truth.
speaker4: what happened to "degrees"?

speaker1: didn't kill him- 
speaker2: then who did?

speaker1: i wanted to tell someone what he'd said, but i couldn't. mueller would just laugh. nunez and childs wouldn't care. pike and dunbar were okay, but... when west outed me, he isolated me. an outcast among outcasts. and i'd just been told tonight was the night i'd die. 
speaker2: first team, second team, third team, go, go, go!

speaker1: i knew childs a little, we worked at the px together. 
speaker1: i started getting it in my head that maybe west had paid him, maybe he was the one who was supposed to give me a training accident-

speaker1: don't you ever point a gun at me! 
speaker2: i'm- i'm sorry. . .
speaker1: come on, let's move.
speaker2: all i could think of was west, out there somewhere in the dark. maybe watching the others, maybe watching me. and waiting to make his move.
speaker1: christ, am i alone in this world? shoot something-
speaker1: a target, kendall, cap a target. what's wrong with you?
speaker2: i thought i was gonna have an attack. go into a fit and bite off my own tongue in the middle of the bayou.
speaker1: just safety your and get behind me, okay? i'll take care of this.
speaker2: maybe it was a trick. maybe this was when they'd get me, when i felt safest.

speaker1: maybe i shouldn't tell you that. maybe i should tell you i wasn't scared at all. but i was... enough to almost kill him. 
speaker2: but you didn't.
speaker1: no. poetic justice, though.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: because childs is the one who shot you.
speaker1: but that came later.

speaker1: over there! 
speaker1: hello! hel-

speaker1: what the is going on- 
speaker2: what do we do?
speaker1: whoever it is isn't shooting at us...
speaker2: don't want to go-
speaker1: fine.

speaker1: what's- he stops, seeing. 
speaker1: oh, jesus.. .
speaker1: did- did you-
speaker2: it was the grenade you

speaker1: this isn't our area. whose area is this- 
speaker2: can anybody hear me!
speaker2: hey, i- holy .,. holy what the did you guys do?
speaker1: we found him like this-
speaker2: you killed him you faggot-
speaker1: we found him like this! kendall was with me the whole- listen to me!
speaker2: 
speaker1: where's pike?
speaker1: mueller, where's pike?
speaker2: we got- i don't know, we got separated
speaker1: before or after the explosion? mueller-
speaker2: i don't know!

speaker1: how can you not know- mueller comes at him, screaming: 
speaker2: shut the up, you faggot, you just shut the up-

speaker1: we have to get out of this. to find the cabin. 
speaker2: what about pike?
speaker1: maybe he'll be there. either way, we have to go.
speaker3: shouldn't we- i mean, we shouldn't just leave him here.
speaker1: you can carry him if you want.

speaker1: what happened to you- 
speaker2: what happened to you?
speaker3: we finished the course and came here, then heard an explosion- where's pike?
speaker4: we don't know. west is dead.
speaker2: they found him. poor was practically blown in half-
speaker5: poor my ass...
speaker2: you better watch it, faggot, i'm not sure you and childs didn't do him-
speaker4: what about you, wandering around alone? at least we have an alibi-
speaker3: what do you mean, alone?
speaker2: pike and i got separated-
speaker5: yeah and he doesn't know when-
speaker2: i remember now, it was before the explosion-

speaker1: oh, you remember now- 
speaker2: i'm about two seconds away from seeing if fairies really can fly-
speaker3: what about pike?
speaker4: he wouldn't kill anybody. . .
speaker2: oh, bullshit, he's a convict.
speaker4: i hated west, childs hated west, everyone with a brain hated west but that doesn't mean we killed him!
speaker3: what if it wasn't one of us? what if it was a local-
speaker1: he was blown up by a phosphorous grenade, they don't exactly sell those at 7-11.
speaker2: look, here are the facts - roberto was with dunbar, queen kendall was with childs, and pike's the only one not here. he did it!
speaker5: he is the only one unaccounted for.
speaker1: maybe he's dead too. maybe you killed them both, mueller-
speaker4: shut up. let me see your grenades.
speaker2: why?

speaker1: we were each given three so whoever killed west will be missing one. 
speaker2: see? three. now can we please-
speaker3: hey, guys.
speaker1: whose blood is that, jay? west's.
speaker3: any kindling for afire?
speaker1: what do you mean, west's?
speaker3: i mean i killed him. isn't that what we all wanted?

speaker1: he admitted it. 
speaker2: right in front of us. mueller went after him but we held him back. pike surrendered and volunteered to be tied up. so we roped him to a chair and tried to ride out the storm.
speaker3: why would he just surrender?
speaker2: because he had a plan.

speaker1: hey, kendall, talk to you for a sec? 
speaker1: you hated west as much as i did. i'm not saying what i did was right, but you can't tell me you're not glad the dead.
speaker1: the thing is, we've got a real opportunity here. you turn me in tomorrow and we're both fucked-
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: a gay senator's son who let his sarge get fragged on a training exercise? the press'll crucify you and your father. his career will be over and it'll be your fault. but we do this different and you come out a hero.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: mueller. he's as bad as west and we both know it. now i can't do it, cause i'm tied up, but we get the others to go along-
speaker3: don't think i want to hear this-
speaker1: someone else can do the deed, it doesn't have to be you. maybe nunez too, he's got a tendency to follow mueller, but the rest of us can come out ahead - the guys who took out their sergeant's killers!

speaker1: we'll move the bodies out to the creek and say we came over the hill right as they fragged west, all we gotta do is tell the story right. 
speaker2: you're sick, pike. he turns and walks away. pike watches him go.
speaker2: later on i.saw him talking to dunbar. they had been close. i was in another room when it happened.

speaker1: and that's it. 
speaker2: nunez was chasing dunbar.
speaker1: because he'd shot mueller.
speaker2: but you didn't see it, right?
speaker1: like i said, i was in the kitchen. when i came out, mueller and pike were dead, nunez and childs were hit and dunbar was gone.
speaker3: why did he come back for you?
speaker1: i honestly don't know. maybe to have someone to cover for him. and i wish i could, but there's no doubt in my mind he killed those men.
speaker3: okay. i think that's it. he rises and walks to the door.
speaker1: mr. hardy?
speaker1: what did dunbar tell you?

speaker1: pike killed west, dunbar killed mueller, childs, and nunez. 
speaker2: who killed pike?
speaker1: someone must have got a shot off. he wasn't exactly a moving target.
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: it's too neat.
speaker1: "too neat." how long have you been an investigator?
speaker3: i don't think that has anything to do with-
speaker1: that means under a year. let me explain what ten years of police work has taught me - murder is basic. there are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, and no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings; murder is people doing a thing to other people - it doesn't always make sense but it's always neat. dunbar's our guy.
speaker3: i just... he came back for kendall.
speaker1: everyone's capable of murder, osborne.

speaker1: look, all we've got is what kendall says, and he didn't actually witness any deaths except nunez. he found west, he saw mueller and pike, but just their bodies - he didn't see any crime committed. 
speaker2: well, i'm sure if he'd known this was all going to happen he'd have tried harder to witness it for you-
speaker3: west's body isn't in the creek bed.
speaker3: we've already been over the terrain twice. nothing.
speaker2: there was a hurricane, bill, the wind probably moved it.
speaker3: habeas corpus - you have to have a body to have a crime.
speaker2: okay, then let's widen the search 'to include the endzone in giants stadium and the trunk of my car-
speaker3: without the body we have no physical proof. we need a confession.
speaker2: from dunbar? i hate to break this to you, but i don't think he's gonna be all that psyched to put himself in for the death penalty.
speaker3: nevertheless-
speaker2: nevertheless what'? kendall will testify and that'll be enough.
speaker3: not for me.

speaker1: you mean not enough to save you. 
speaker2: jag gets here in three hours. try for the confession.
speaker1: hey, ray! just had a nice talk with your buddy. kendall - seems you killed three people!
speaker3: that son of a
speaker1: that'd be my reaction too-
speaker3: he's lying.
speaker1: well, why didn't you say so? we'll just drop all your charges, then-
speaker3: i'm serious- hardy leans across the table.
speaker1: "you're serious", raymond, you got exactly zero truck with us; right now we'd take the word of a crackhead over yours, so if you've got something to say, say it.
speaker3: did kendall tell you about the px?
speaker4: he said he worked there-
speaker3: no, did he tell you about it? about the business childs ran?
speaker4: what business?

speaker1: pills, shots, you name it, basic's a lot easier when you don't feel pain- 
speaker2: so childs made some side money, so what? people are dead, ray, and the only one we have to blame is you-
speaker1: didn't shoot west-
speaker2: yeah, we know, pike did.
speaker1: you think you know everything, don't you? you haven't even scratched the surface.
speaker2: i know enough to know you got two choices - you can sign a confession, in which case you'll probably spend the rest of your life in a military prison, or you can tell us to off, in which case you'll probably get the gas chamber. am i scratching your surface yet?
speaker3: hardy!

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: tom, where are you going-
speaker3: home, i'm done.
speaker2: what about the confession?
speaker3: you want a confession? why don't you confess, bill: people are dead and you don't give a about it! only reason you called me is to protect your job, you know this is your fault-
speaker2: what the are you talking about-
speaker3: i'm talking about west! we had him, bill, we were there. you're the base commander, you knew what he did to cadets and you let him go on the way he always he has- styles couldn't reassign him, he's a legend-
speaker3: you knew what he was capable of and you just stood by. it was just a matter of time till somebody fragged his ass, and you know what? he deserved it. there's your confession.

speaker1: goddammit, hardy, you can't just leave- 
speaker2: watch me.

speaker1: you said you owed styles and now you're gonna turn your back on him? 
speaker2: west was a monster! fifteen years ago, i was here, i was section eight, i was pike. being the knife dummy- that thing he did, stripping pike down, making him stand outside all night? he did that every year, he did that to me. fifteen years ago, i wanted him dead, and now i'm supposed to care that somebody offed him? sorry, no can do. i tried.
speaker1: you did more than try. you cracked dunbar in less than three minutes, as an investigator you're phenomenal-
speaker2: phenomenal at taking bribes, right?
speaker1: i was starting to believe you, you know? that you weren't who everyone said. i guess i was wrong-
speaker2: oh, spare me the reverse psychology this isn't my "great second chance", osborne. everyone thinks i'm a piece of cop who took money and nothing is going to change that. nobody will ever know what happens here-
speaker1: but you will.
speaker2: why do you care?
speaker1: because it's my job. because people are dead. because of the whole honor and duty thing, make a difference in the world, like that. we can do this, hardy.

speaker1: hardy looks at the ground. 
speaker2: two and a half hours. that's all i'm asking. two and a half hours to maybe get the truth. silence.
speaker3: i didn't shoot west...
speaker2: what?
speaker3: dunbar... he said he didn't shoot west. west wasn't shot, kendall said he was blown apart by a phosphorous grenade and dunbar never saw the body.

speaker1: apologize- 
speaker2: you saw west's body.
speaker1: of course-
speaker3: where?
speaker1: the creek bed-
speaker2: and he'd been shot.
speaker1: yeah-
speaker3: what about the phosphorous grenade?
speaker1: one went off, yeah, but it didn't touch him- i thought you knew this-

speaker1: holy holy what the did you guys do? 
speaker2: we found him like this...
speaker3: somebody emptied a full clip into him-
speaker4: stop.

speaker1: kendall told us mueller was the one who found them with west's body. 
speaker2: he's lying, then. we didn't see mueller till we got to the cabin.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: west...he's dead.
speaker3: back up.

speaker1: pike and i got separated... then i heard gunfire. close. 
speaker2: so did we. why didn't you come?
speaker3: i was afraid... mueller voice fades out as he continues to talk.
speaker2: i didn't buy it. but mueller had all three of his grenades.

speaker1: at least you and kendall agree on that. 
speaker2: what happened next? dunbar shudders.
speaker3: pike came back.

speaker1: what the happened to you- 
speaker2: what the happened to you? one minute you're next to me and the next you're gone and the sky lights up like christmas-
speaker3: where have you been, jay?

speaker1: wandering through a hurricane trying to find this place. it's gettin' bad out there- where's west? 
speaker2: yeah, right. . .
speaker3: shut up. west's dead.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: where have you been, jay?
speaker1: oh, no. . . no, that- he moves to the door, but. . .
speaker4: hey!
speaker1: roberto, what the
speaker3: we just want to check your pack-
speaker1: why?
speaker5: whoever shot the sarge blew a grenade first-
speaker1: blame the nigger, then, huh? someone turns up dead, you just look for the darkest face in the crowd-
speaker3: you know it's not like that-

speaker1: do i? 
speaker2: let him check your pack.
speaker3: tie him up.

speaker1: just like the first day, huh? you standing guard on me. 
speaker1: this place ain't gonna hold much longer.
speaker1: you and me are friends, right?
speaker1: right?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: you gotta untie me. i didn't do this thing, ray.

speaker1: you hated west more than any of us. 
speaker2: maybe, but that don't make me a killer-
speaker1: you're the only one missing a grenade.
speaker2: which anyone coulda taken out of my gear on the chopper. were you watching your pack on the ride in?
speaker2: ray, this is my life here. i ain't gonna pretend i'm not happy west is gone, but you know i couldn't have done this. it's not in me.
speaker1: if not you, then who?
speaker2: mueller.
speaker1: oh, come on-
speaker2: we're sweeping our area and suddenly he's gone. couple minutes later, phosphorous grenade pops off about a third of a click away-
speaker1: that's exactly what he says about you.
speaker2: who you gonna trust, ray? him or your friend?
speaker1: you hated west, mueller loved him-
speaker2: enough to go to prison? childs' px scam, mueller was in on it-
speaker1: 

speaker1: look in my pack. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: just look. little pocket.
speaker1: combat grade morphine. mueller sold it to me. .
speaker2: you're lying-
speaker1: pull up my sleeve. right arm.
speaker1: that look like a lie to you? i been using solid for the last eight weeks.
speaker1: after that first night on the parade grounds with you, i was bad - exposure, malnutrition, the works. i needed something to keep me from crashing. mueller found me.

speaker1: later on childs got assigned there, started running the out to every cadet who needed it. but i was our class's first customer.. . 
speaker2: why... why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: becoming a morphine addict during basic ain't exactly something you want to broadcast. only mueller and childs know.
speaker2: that still doesn't mean you didn't kill him.
speaker1: you saw west, right? how was he killed?
speaker2: full clip to the body-
speaker1: from up close or far away?
speaker2: his chest was hamburger-
speaker1: that's close range. you go full auto on a guy from close range, you're gonna be swimming in blood. look at my uniform. nothing.
speaker1: and where's mueller's? when i came in, he was only wearing a t-shirt.

speaker1: way i figure it, west must have found out about their little business and was gonna bust them, so they decided to get rid of him first... 
speaker2: they?
speaker1: mueller and childs. one of them must've taken the grenade from my pack on the chopper...

speaker1: he blows the grenade to frame me and gets west to come running... . 
speaker2: what the is going on?!

speaker1: and wait for everyone else to arrive. 
speaker2: i... i don't know...
speaker1: what don't you know?
speaker2: this is a lot of information to be getting... i have to think-

speaker1: there's no time to think, ray, we gotta get out of here! you untie me, we grab the guns, get kendall and nunez, and make a run for it- 
speaker2: no... no, we can just wait till we get back and then tell the m.p.'s-
speaker1: we wait and i'm a dead man. i got a black face, a criminal record, and over a hundred other cadets who'll testify how much i hated west - my court martial will take six minutes. it's either me or them, ray, and you gotta decide right now. the cabin shifts again. dunbar stares at him.
speaker1: untie me.
speaker1: untie me, ray.
speaker1: thank . .
speaker3: what the are you doing? dunbar freezes. caught.
speaker3: guys, get out here!
speaker1: this place is going, mueller. we gotta move-

speaker1: shut the up. he was gonna cut him loose. 
speaker2: why?
speaker3: cause i didn't do it.
speaker4: get away from there.
speaker1: we all know what you did, pike. i don't know what kind of voodoo you been working in here, but-
speaker3: where's your shirt, mueller?
speaker1: used it to start the fire-
speaker3: still got mine on, not a speck of blood on it. not a bad trick for a murderer- you said you burned yours?
speaker1: was freezing from the hurricane-
speaker5: so you took off your shirt?
speaker1: to start a fire, goddammit! what about him, huh? maybe he offed the sarge and changed shirts, brought an extra one in his pack. y'ever think of that? go ahead, cut him loose! first chance he gets, he'll waste the rest of us, that's how they work-

speaker1: goddammit, ray, we gotta get out of here- 
speaker2: we're not going anywhere.

speaker1: cadet michael mueller, i hereby place you under military arrest for the murder of sergeant nathan west- 
speaker2: the are you talking about-
speaker1: you are to be stripped of all weapons and placed under guard-
speaker2: bullshit-
speaker1: until we return to base, and ballistics can match your weapon to the slugs in sergeant west's body-
speaker2: shut up!
speaker3: mueller, what the
speaker4: don't do this- pike, eyes locked with mueller. continuing:
speaker1: a test will no doubt link you to the killing-
speaker4: put it down!
speaker2: tell him to shut up-
speaker1: -failure to comply with this arrest is a court martialable offense in and of itself-

speaker1: pike, please- 
speaker2: although that won't matter much when coupled with the murder charge-

speaker1: you stupid white trash i saw you do it- and mueller fires. pike's head snaps back. 
speaker2: oh.. . my
speaker3: he wouldn't... stop talking...
speaker4: so you killed him?

speaker1: get that hand away. 
speaker2: you too?

speaker1: we can still come out of this okay. pike got free, he got a gun, he came after us. that's the story. 
speaker2: west was one thing, but this-
speaker1: shut up, mueller.
speaker3: you framed-him...
speaker1: none of that matters now. we got two dead bodies and a story that explains them. you're either with us, or against us - which is it?
speaker3: okay-

speaker1: can i have some coffee? 
speaker2: yeah... yeah, sure. she goes over to the machine and pours a cup.
speaker3: you shot childs and nunez.
speaker1: they would have killed us both. you want me to write a confession, i'll write a confession.
speaker3: you saved kendall's life-
speaker1: but not pike's.
speaker2: why didn't you tell us all this in the first place?

speaker1: would you have believed me? 
speaker2: where's the cabin?
speaker1: don't know on a map. west told us it was there, we just found it.
speaker3: raymond, for you to have any chance of coming out of this, we need to locate the other bodies and examine them to corroborate your testimony.
speaker1: mr. hardy, i joined the army for college money. i didn't ask for any of this - i tried to do the right thing out there and people got killed. you say finding those bodies'll help me, then go find them. i don't want to die.
speaker2: talk it through: childs, mueller, and nunez know they're going out on the regular tuesday night drill, hurricane or ho hurricane, so they plan it: kill west, pin it on pike.
speaker3: and they're smart about it. they know when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy and for that to work, you have to have a witness.
speaker2: dunbar.
speaker3: exactly, someone who's not involved, who's word can't be questioned. you only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe, so when the time comes, they've totally bought into your version of events.

speaker1: they believe the innocent are guilty and the guilty are innocent. 
speaker2: and if they're asked, that's what they'll tell the, world.
speaker1: so it's a good plan but it goes wrong; mueller flips out and shoots their fall guy, which means they have to bring dunbar and kendall into the cover story-
speaker2: kendall maybe would have agreed, but the hurricane buttfucks the cabin-
speaker1: buttfucks the cabin?
speaker2: and all breaks loose. a lot of good guys shoot a lot of bad guys and whiz, bang, zoom, happy ending.
speaker1: so why, after dunbar drags kendall out from under a house, does the senator's son try and get us to put his savior in the gas chamber?
speaker2: that bugs you too?
speaker1: little bit.
speaker2: let's go talk to bill...

speaker1: asthma... this whole thing's driving it nuts. 
speaker2: what i said before-

speaker1: was dead right. you think dunbar's on the level? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: does osborne agree?
speaker3: yes, sir, i do.
speaker2: dunbar's confession. it should be enough to get you out of trouble.
speaker1: you want kendall, don't you?
speaker3: he tried to burn dunbar to us. you don't do that if you're not involved.
speaker1: you both know if you do this, if you go after a senator's son and you're wrong... it's not just me in the hot seat anymore.
speaker3: we know.
speaker1: i'm giving you a chance to walk away.
speaker2: we know.
speaker1: you don't get to be a colonel without compromising. without getting out of the way of the bigger dogs. you politic, play it safe, think of the career first. and when things get dirty, you just look the other way... he looks back up at hardy. his eyes, steeled.

speaker1: pike never confessed. 
speaker2: we've been making progress, i see.
speaker2: running out of time, are we? tick- tock, tick-tock, how long till your witnesses fly the coop?
speaker1: fifty minutes.
speaker2: not much time to solve the crime. tell me, detective, how did it feel taking blood money from guissepe torres? did it weigh on your conscience or did you just not think about it?
speaker3: you tried to pin three stone murders on dunbar-
speaker2: how many murders did you cover up?
speaker3: can i go to jail for punching a guy who's been shot?
speaker2: i think they're giving me the wrong medicine. this isn't a very good hospital, you know-

speaker1: epileptic attacks are murder on your system. rattle your internal organs like a paint mixer. 
speaker2: my heart weeps.
speaker3: pike never confessed.
speaker1: no, but it got you interested, didn't it? got you to dig. inspired ray to tell you terribly sordid tales about drugs and creek beds and dead little sergeants who stuck their noses where they didn't belong.
speaker2: is it the truth?
speaker1: there's that word again. as i told you, i wasn't in the room when everyone started shooting.
speaker3: dunbar says you were.
speaker1: then he's mistaken. you know, i really don't think my father would approve of this line of questioning-
speaker2: why did you tell us he shot everybody, levi? you put him in for three murders, the man saved your life-
speaker1: so i should stay silent about his misdeeds? the guns went off, i ran in, childs shot me, pike and mueller were dead, and dunbar was running out the door with the smoking gun-
speaker2: dunbar was running out the door? ohhhhhh... see that's where i was confused, because i thought you said nunez was running out the door.

speaker1: no. i said dunbar. 
speaker2: huh. you know, i really thought you said nunez. i thought you said "dunbar was gone," my fault, i gotta check the tape on that. oh, yeah we taped the last interview. this one too. cause it'd be a real break for us to catch you in a lie.
speaker1: i believe your next line is "what are you trying to hide?"
speaker2: well?
speaker1: sorry to disappoint. i'm on painkillers for the injury - they cloud the mind. you're right, it was nunez. any more questions?
speaker1: don't get me wrong, mueller and childs were quite the pair, the type of guys you didn't feel comfortable going to sleep around. completely capable of murder. but as i said, i didn't hear the exchange before the shooting. i wasn't in the room.
speaker2: dunbar will testify that you were.
speaker1: then we'll leave it up to the courts - his word against mine. what does his father do again? steelworker? doesn't matter, i'm sure justice will be served. in any case, my father will definitely want to talk to you about all these questions, these accusations on his son. he's quite protective.

speaker1: osborne turns to hardy. 
speaker2: i need to talk to you outside.
speaker3: we're fucked, i know-
speaker2: they got their stories straight.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: what kendall said - "the type of guys you don't feel comfortable going to sleep around." that's what dunbar said about childs to the letter.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker2: positive. hardy, they planned this.
speaker2: not bad for hostile and uncooperative, eh?

speaker1: something funny, levi? 
speaker2: i was just thinking of what's going to happen to your careers when my father gets through with you.
speaker1: why don't you talk to levi off the record for a second?
speaker3: good idea.

speaker1: you and dunbar got your stories straight. little details, little inconsistencies, designed to bounce us back from one of you to the other, asking questions, killing time, until the transport arrives and whisks you away to where senator daddy can protect you. you think you're just going to slide out of this? you're an accessory to murder, levi, you're going to jail- 
speaker2: you can't threaten me-
speaker3: jail if he's lucky, the gas chamber if he's not-
speaker2: didn't do anything- osborne laughs.
speaker1: it doesn't matter, levi. we're going to find those bodies and when we do, i'm going to make sure one of them has a bullet in them that matches your weapon-
speaker2: what?
speaker3: that's a fantastic idea-
speaker1: see, i just take your gun to the morgue and fire it into one of their skulls; then i call every newspaper in the country with the story about how senator kendall's gay son went nuts on a training mission-
speaker2: it won't work-
speaker1: it will and you know why?

speaker1: because you're not a person anymore, you're a cadet in the united states army; you have no identity, no miranda warning, and no rights. so i'm gonna throw you to the wolves, and unlike you i'm gonna get away with it, because you're me off! 
speaker1: enjoy your flight to washington-
speaker2: wait-
speaker1: what.
speaker2: dunbar's telling the truth.
speaker1: wrong answer-
speaker2: we did get our stories straight, but not because we killed anyone. it was because i threatened him.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: because of what i saw. who really killed west.
speaker1: who killed sergeant west? kendall stares at the recorder. a long pause.
speaker1: who, levi-
speaker2: childs.

speaker1: how do you know? 
speaker2: because i was standing next to him.
speaker2: i was in on the px thing. he and mueller and me, we were making thousands. west found out. childs said we were just gonna scare him - use my dad's clout. i had this whole speech prepared about how if he ratted us, his career was over. we met him in the creek bed but before i said anything...

speaker1: i swear, i didn't know he was gonna do it. after, he told me we were gonna pin it on pike, one of our biggest customers. 
speaker1: nobody'd believe the word of a black junkie ex-con against ours.
speaker1: he told me i'd better keep quiet, or i'd end up the same as west.
speaker1: dunbar didn't know anything about any of it. everything he told you was true, except after...

speaker1: i scared dunbar into silence. he's been trying to cover for me the whole time. we got here, you came to see me... i didn't know if i could trust him with that kind of secret- 
speaker2: so you framed him. the same way childs was going to frame pike.
speaker3: little advice, levi, next time you frame a guy, pick someone who can't defend themselves.
speaker2: what happened with nunez?
speaker1: he came after us. and i told dunbar he had to kill him...

speaker1: that's how you do good cop/bad cop. 
speaker2: childs did it, huh?
speaker2: first pike, then mueller, now childs? when are we getting to the others? when are we gonna hear about nunez?
speaker2: or dunbar?
speaker2: or you, levi? when is it finally going to come out that you were the one who killed him?

speaker1: i didn't- 
speaker2: but you can't prove it! you can't prove anything until we find the bodies!
speaker2: you lied to us, levi, you're going to the gas chamber unless you tell us where to find them!
speaker1: i don't know-
speaker2: where are they!
speaker1: maybe-

speaker1: get something between his teeth! 
speaker2: 
speaker3: what is-
speaker1: he's an epileptic!
speaker4: you're going to have to wait outside-
speaker1: he's a witness!
speaker4: it doesn't matter, outside-
speaker5: f-f-f-f-f-f-fuh-
speaker1: he's trying to say something-
speaker4: out, now.
speaker5: fuh-fuh-fuh-fuh-fuh-

speaker1: i pushed him too hard. 
speaker2: you couldn't have known-
speaker1: yeah, i could've. should've.
speaker2: you wanted to get the truth.
speaker1: no, i didn't. i wanted to humiliate him. for what he did to dunbar.
speaker2: you mean the falsely accused?
speaker2: you wanted to break him.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: so did i.
speaker3: it's over. time of death was 4:42.

speaker1: jag's been notified and i called the senator myself. my report will reflect that his medical condition made this unavoidable... you two had no culpability in the matter. 
speaker2: that's horseshit and you know it.
speaker1: maybe. but it's my fault and i'll carry it.
speaker1: we found the cabin. demolished, like they said. no bodies. hurricane like that coulda scooped 'em up, dropped them down two counties over. we'll find them.
speaker1: you think you could explain all this to me?
speaker2: i wouldn't know where to start. i guess it was about one man framing another. he thought if the other guy got blamed, people would over look his own wrong doings.
speaker3: what happens to dunbar now?
speaker1: gets on his plane in ten minutes, which means you two are done. you'll understand if i don't walk you out.
speaker2: they're taking your command, aren't they?
speaker1: the senator...

speaker1: i'm sorry, bill. 
speaker2: don't be. i'm not cut out to deal with the west's of the world.
speaker1: you're a good soldier, bill.
speaker2: i thought you said that wasn't a compliment.
speaker1: this time it is.

speaker1: your car's in the motor pool. i'll walk you over. 
speaker1: so what now?
speaker2: now i go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
speaker1: think it'll work?
speaker2: nah.
speaker1: you know, you never told me why you left the army.
speaker2: it dawned on me one day that we were supposed to be a nation founded on the principle of questioning authority... and all i did here was follow orders. it didn't add up.

speaker1: for what? 
speaker2: that's gonna stay my secret.

speaker1: we were close to something with kendall. 
speaker2: maybe... maybe we were nowhere near. sometimes mysteries stay mysteries. i haven't by any chance grown on you, have i?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: good, just making sure.
speaker1: we're going need a vehicle release.
speaker3: sign here and here. hey, ain't you the folks workin' on that whole hulabaloo from last night?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: terrible tragedy. one of those section eight boys worked in here. pike. heard he got out okay.
speaker2: hate to be the bearer of bad news, sergeant, but he didn't make it.

speaker1: the sergeant scratches his head. 
speaker2: funny. i swear i saw them bring him and the smaller guy in this morning.
speaker3: no, no that was cadet dunbar-
speaker2: you mean ray dunbar? well, that ain't right.
speaker4: why not?
speaker2: i saw 'em get off the chopper. white guys, right? two
speaker3: so?
speaker2: ma'am, ray dunbar's black. hardy and osborne stare at him. shocked a beat.
speaker2: did i say something wrong-
speaker4: what runway's that transport leaving from?
speaker3: four-
speaker4: get in.

speaker1: we need to talk to him- 
speaker2: sorry, officer, we have a schedule to keep-
speaker1: we need to talk to him now.
speaker3: we're not finished yet-
speaker4: you wanna bet?
speaker2: m.p.'s, this man off the base!
speaker3: james randall pike, come on down!
speaker1: let's go have a talk.

speaker1: this is your entire career here- 
speaker2: off.

speaker1: we got maybe three minutes till they break it down. 
speaker2: right back where we started.
speaker3: you want to talk about baseball now? hardy practically throws dunbar into a chair.
speaker2: no more games, right, pike? it was you who west singled out...
speaker2: you who got hooked by mueller's morphine...
speaker2: you who did it all.
speaker2: you wanted revenge on west, revenge on them all, so you killed them.

speaker1: you kept kendall alive to corroborate your story and he did it all they way up to the end. you even gave him his own motive in case we decided to burn him, too. 
speaker2: can't do that now, though, can you?
speaker3: you walked into the army a convicted felon with a sentence of five years in a uniform and were going walk out eight weeks later with a different name, a clean record, and an honorable discharge - a guy who did "everything he could" to save his friends.
speaker2: is that what i did, now? and of course, you can prove all of it.
speaker1: we can prove that you're not ray dunbar. impersonating a fellow cadet is a court-martial in and of itself-
speaker2: did i ever claim i was raymond dunbar? was i ever told to state my name rank and serial number for the record? no. you assumed who i was, because i was wearing this uniform. don't believe me?
speaker2: check your tapes.
speaker3: we don't need the tapes-
speaker2: oh, you don't? what else do you have on me? you haven't found any bodies yet, have you?
speaker3: we've found all of them.

speaker1: dunbar chuckles at the bluff. 
speaker2: ohhhh, i don't think so...
speaker3: how do you know that?
speaker2: just a guess. maybe they're not where they're supposed to be. maybe somebody moved them. habeas corpus - no bodies, no crime, and nunez still plays as self defense. face it detectives ... you have nothing.
speaker4: not true, cadet, i've got a gun-
speaker2: 
speaker3: hardy, what are you doing-
speaker4: isn't this how your story goes? pike annoys someone so much he gets shot in the head-
speaker2: please, please don't-
speaker4: we can tie you to the chair if it'll work better for you-
speaker3: hardy, for chrissakes-

speaker1: what in name is going on? 
speaker2: he- he made me do it-
speaker3: do what?
speaker2: hunting- we had to hunt him-
speaker4: sergeant, arrest these men!
speaker5: you mean the exercise?
speaker2: there never was an exercise! never targets, never teams, i don't even know if there's a creek bed out there-
speaker3: what did you do?
speaker4: that's enough-
speaker3: goddammit, what did you do?!

speaker1: hang on. 
speaker2: colonel-
speaker1: no. i want to hear this.

speaker1: what i didn't know, was his friend was west. he ran the whole thing. 
speaker2: you're lying, son.
speaker1: you think it's easy to have all that morphine just disappear without a higher up authorizing it? check the requisition orders, i'll lay money it's his signature on them.

speaker1: every nine weeks, a new class of cadets, new potential customers. the amount of money involved over that period of time... this was some high stakes 
speaker1: dunbar moved his through the kitchen. i worked in the motor pool and hooked all the mechanics. by the time the hurricane hit, we were all in. some using, some pushing, some both. but then something happened. west heard one of us was about to talk, to blow his whole operation. he figured he'd made enough money, had enough of the army, maybe it was time to disappear. but first he was gonna teach us one last thing.

speaker1: the tuesday night drill was the perfect cover. the hurricane made it even better. 
speaker1: he put us on the chopper and flew us to his cabin. and then he told us.

speaker1: nunez. 
speaker2: run.
speaker3: sir, i wasn't-
speaker2: i know you were. cadet mueller found the letter you'd written to the colonel in your locker. you were going to betray us all. now, run.
speaker2: now we'll see whose training's paid off the most. you are to hunt cadet nunez down and bring his body back to me. if you fail and he escapes, we all go down together.

speaker1: roberto... 
speaker2: he took his gun. used it on childs.
speaker2: i can't imagine what it was like. having your friends try to kill you...
speaker2: but you do what you have to survive.

speaker1: put it down! 
speaker2: i just want to go!
speaker1: you were gonna kill me, pike! thought you were my friend!
speaker2: i have to get kendall to a hospital!
speaker1: he was gonna kill me too! silence. the two men still facing each other.
speaker3: i snapped mueller's neck! he was my best friend and i had to snap his neck because he was gonna shoot me for drugs! for west!
speaker2: we don't have to do this! you go that way, i'll go this way!
speaker1: you'll shoot me in the back!
speaker2: you killed three people! isn't that enough for one night?
speaker2: i don't want to die out here, roberto! do you?

speaker1: if you even twitch... dunbar nods. 
speaker2: forgive me. .. and dunbar fires.
speaker3: congratulations, cadet pike. you get the gold star.
speaker4: you.
speaker3: you'd best get him out of here. don't worry about the bodies, they'll be taken care of.
speaker3: this is where we part ways, cadet. you tell them i died out here, or i'll come back for you. tell them one of the others did me. mueller, childs, i don't care who. you and kendall, you tell them a story. you can tell a story, can't you?

speaker1: i guess nunez wasn't dead after all. he came after us with a vengeance. you know the rest. 
speaker2: and the bodies?
speaker1: you won't find them. won't find west, either. he's too good.
speaker3: no bodies, no west...
speaker2: no death certificates. no crime.
speaker1: just four people mia. silence.
speaker4: you'll testify to this, the corruption, the drug scam?
speaker4: we can cut a deal for you on the nunez killing.
speaker1: i don't want any deals.

speaker1: if you're telling the truth, the px requisition records will prove it- 
speaker2: all the proof you need will be when west comes back and puts a bullet in my brain. but i'll do it. i'm a dead man, anyway. like kendall. we both should have died out there with our brothers. i know that now.
speaker1: i'll take him now if you don't mind.
speaker2: tell me, detective. did you get what you wanted?
speaker3: not even close.
speaker4: tom-

speaker1: we need to talk- 
speaker2: seven.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: seven guys. what was it you said? you were "just starting to believe i wasn't the guy people said". 
speaker2: seven. that's the answer to kendall's question. how many? seven.
speaker3: this isn't the time-
speaker1: this is the perfect time. you know what makes a good detective? the number of confessions they get. you're a good detective, osborne.
speaker3: what if i don't want it?
speaker1: tough.
speaker1: thing about taking money is, you don't have to do anything. you just sit there. maybe you don't return a phone call. maybe you don't follow up a lead. but that's it. keep the money, your work's done.
speaker1: seven unsolved murders. and you know what? it didn't weigh on my conscience. not one bit.
speaker3: that's not true.
speaker1: there are degrees of truth, officer.

speaker1: you're a good man, hardy. 
speaker2: really.
speaker1: far as i'm concerned, whatever you did in the past can stay in the past.
speaker2: i may not be growing on you, but you're sure as growing on me.
speaker1: and because you're a good man, i know you'll do the right thing.
speaker1: pike never made it to d.c.. somebody took him off the plane before it left. my guess is he's already dead.
speaker2: west?
speaker1: nobody saw. but i don't think so.
speaker1: these are the requisitions from the px, the ones used to release the drugs to mueller. west signed half of them - pike was telling the truth. look who signed the other half.
speaker2: do i have a choice in this?
speaker1: yeah. i can wait till you're off the base and do it myself.

speaker1: hardy stares at his glass. deciding. 
speaker2: it. let's go finish this.

speaker1: "you have to get out of the way of the bigger dogs". that was good. 
speaker2: tom, is that you?
speaker1: it was so good, i actually forgot you're one of the bigger dogs now. the base commander. the one in control.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: if you let him testify then it would have all come out. west was supposed to take care of it out there, shut nunez up and then disappear. but it got messy and people got killed. so you called your old pal tom hardy, figuring if worse came to worse, he'd cover for you.
speaker2: you're drunk-
speaker1: i'm not going to cover for you, bill. not for this. styles, realizing what hardy's talking about.
speaker2: look- he begins to move from behind his desk.

speaker1: stay where you are. 
speaker2: or what? you've gone round the bend-
speaker1: west had a partner. someone who knew how to get things done.
speaker1: what i can't understand is why you signed these. if you'd just let west take care of the paperwork, no one would have known, but you got careless. so when pike finally told the truth you had to get rid of him, too.
speaker2: that's preposterous-
speaker1: toxicology report came back. kendall's attack was caused by a drug known as anephadrine, maybe you've heard of it. it's for asthmatics. if an epileptic takes enough, it kills them. i checked with the nurses at the hospital - you're the only other person who visited kendall.
speaker2: wanted to see if he was okay-
speaker1: you poisoned him, bill. you heard our interrogation, you knew he was ready to crack, so you killed him, just like pike.
speaker2: i'm not even going to dignify that-
speaker1: no! you will stand there and you will listen! what happened to you, bill? you were the one who joined up to do good in the world. you were the one who believed in it-

speaker1: you want to get into a finger pointing contest about character? the army kicked you out for drugs, the cops fired you for taking bribes from a mobster, and you think you can stand there and lecture me on codes of conduct? there's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you. 
speaker2: not for long.
speaker2: no more witnesses. west's a ghost. but it doesn't matter because we have your signature, the hospital log, and kendall's toxicology report.
speaker1: you're crazy-
speaker2: you can't duck this, bill. i may have done every thing in my life wrong but i won't let this happen.
speaker1: for the last time, i have no idea what you're talking about-
speaker2: get your hands away from the desk!
speaker2: osborne, gun!

speaker1: it's west's, isn't it? 
speaker2: now it's over.

speaker1: what are you doing out here? 
speaker2: leaving without saying goodbye.
speaker1: go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened.
speaker2: think it'll work?
speaker1: nah.
speaker2: want company?
speaker1: a word of advice about women - that first hour or so after they kill their boss? probably not the best time to hit on them.
speaker2: i should probably write that down.
speaker1: yeah. .
speaker1: your phone number?

speaker1: in case you need me to testify about the shooting. they'll clear you. 
speaker2: he was your friend.
speaker1: yeah. but he was a lot of other things, too. thanks.
speaker1: i'll see you.
speaker2: hey, hardy!
speaker2: i owe you this.
speaker1: you saved my life tonight. keep it. actually, don't keep it, i need the money.
speaker1: you're one of the good ones, osborne. don't sweat the details.

speaker1: as sun tzu writes, the true warfare is deception. 
speaker1: at all times you must confuse your enemies, surrounding them with uncertainty, giving them false hope.
speaker1: at all times, you must mask your true intentions.
speaker2: why'd you ask for a cop, ray?
speaker3: they got their stories straight. . .

speaker1: what the is going on? 
speaker2: your weapons, sergeant.

speaker1: is this about that little drug business you all are running? yeah, i know about that, roberto told me- 
speaker2: shut up! look, we won't say anything-
speaker1: that. you little really think you can throw a scare into me?
speaker1: you're gonna have to do a lot better than that, son.
speaker3: how about this?
speaker1: didn't i kick your out for this drug thing fifteen years ago?
speaker1: should've known you were involved in this. come on then. let's see you try and stick me-
speaker3: stem to sternum. you taught me well, sarge.
speaker4: you think you could explain all this to me?
speaker3: i wouldn't know where to start.

speaker1: when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy.. . 
speaker2: the one who won't talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pick-up.
speaker1: and for that to work, you have to have a witness...
speaker1: someone who's not involved, who's word can't be questioned...
speaker1: you only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe...

speaker1: and if they're asked, that's what they'll tell the world. 
speaker2: your greatest weapon will by your allies . . .
speaker1: my brand. must be my lucky day.

speaker1: . . . some of which you may have to sacrifice for the greater good. 
speaker2: we got the toxicology report . . .
speaker1: make no mistake, the innocent will die. . .

speaker1: next time you frame a guy, pick someone who can't defend themselves... but it will not be in vain. sometimes, you can trick the enemy into doing your work for you. . . 
speaker1: he still carry those guns?

speaker1: what i can't understand is why you signed these... 
speaker2: you never told me why you got kicked out of...
speaker3: the army kicked you out for drugs...
speaker4: i got a friend with an in at the px, can hook you up...
speaker3: there's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you.
speaker5: which brings us to the simple goal. for the true warrior, the one and only objective is to emerge from conflict unscathed.

speaker1: i promised them i'd ask you where west and the others are... 
speaker2: washout rejects, guys he said were "dumbfucks too stupid to know they dead"...
speaker1: he's telling the truth up to a point...
speaker1: you can't prove anything until we find the bodies...
speaker3: all we gotta do is tell the story right...
speaker2: you haven't found any bodies yet, have you...

speaker1: habeas corpus - you have to have a body to have a crime. 
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: murder is basic. 
speaker1: there are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings.

