speaker1: we're going the wrong way. 
speaker2: put that away. we'll look like tourists.
speaker1: seventh is
speaker3: mister. how about it. one dollar? one
speaker4: let's beat it, man. i don't like being up here.
speaker5: what, scared of heights?
speaker4: i dunno, man. after what happened to johnny gobs --
speaker5: look, johnny gobs got ripped and walked off a roof, all right? no big loss.
speaker4: that ain't what i heard. that ain't what i heard at all. i heard the bat got him.
speaker5: gimme a break, will you? shut up...
speaker4: five stories, straight down. there was
speaker4: there was no blood, man. my brother says... all the bad things you done... they come back and
speaker5: no wonder you're such a chickenshit.
speaker5: do you want this money or

speaker1: decent people shouldn't live here. they'd be much happier someplace else. 
speaker2: anything new?
speaker3: the usual gas. if this clown could lay a hand on grissom... i would've had to kill him by now.
speaker2: if grissom knew about
speaker2: you look just fine, jack.
speaker3: ... i didn't ask.

speaker1: that one there won't say a word. the other one's raving his head off. 
speaker2: variety, huh? the spice of life.

speaker1: they found him hugging a drainpipe. 
speaker2: great, but tell me: is this another you-know-what? 'cause if so, it's the third one this week.
speaker1: i dunno. what's "what"?
speaker2: good answer. i'm gonna put you in for a commendation.
speaker3: oh christ, it's knox.
speaker2: hiya, gents. this anything i should know about?
speaker3: nothing out of the routine.
speaker4: a
speaker2: come on. one question. is there a six-foot bat in gotham city?
speaker3: we had another bat sighting.
speaker5: i'm sure that was vitally important. listen: things are heating up. someone is leaking information to harvey dent.
speaker3: i'm doing the best i can. if it's a problem --
speaker5: eckhardt... our problems are your problems.
speaker3: i'll work on it.
speaker5: very nice, lieutenant. but a little ostentatious on a cop's salary, don't you think?
speaker3: i answer to grissom, punk. not to you.
speaker5: you're a smart boy, eckhardt. you should be thinking about the future.
speaker3: ambition. forget it, jack. you'll never run that organization.
speaker5: and why's that?
speaker3: you're a psycho, friend. you're an a-one crazy boy and grissom knows it.
speaker5: here. use mine.

speaker1: hey knox, you got a visitor. 
speaker2: i'm real busy, clark. be a pal and dust him, okay?
speaker1: this one you might want to dust yourself.
speaker2: ... vicki vale.
speaker3: how'd you know it was me?
speaker2: honey -- i would know any randomly selected
speaker2: a girl could get hurt doing this.
speaker3: i do get hurt.
speaker2: got any more of those?
speaker3: nothing i'm at liberty to reveal here. what's new and hot in gotham city?
speaker2: it's too good, vick. we got a six- foot bat that swoops out of the night and preys on evildoers.
speaker3: evildoers, huh? big or small?
speaker2: small so far. i mean -- they don't allow bats in boardrooms, do they.
speaker3: speaking of which... i hear the notorious bruce wayne is throwing a big do for the harvey dent campaign.
speaker2: yeah. hottest ticket in town. every law'n'order freak in the city's gonna be there.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: well, i'm starving. will you at least buy me a hamburger?
speaker3: yes, but please -- be gentle. overwhelmed with glee, he offers her his arm.

speaker1: we can always pop him. -- or pop someone close to him. 
speaker2: let's feed him to the bat.
speaker3: he's going after our front companies. specifically ace chemical. which would tie us in with councilman kane, senator miller... on up the line. we have to clean out our files before the subpoena comes down.
speaker2: how do we go? the usual fire?
speaker3: i'm thinking break-in. trash the office, remove the relevant documents...
speaker1: "industrial espionage."
speaker3: that's right. and jack -- i'd like you to handle this operation personally.
speaker1: ...
speaker1: why do you need

speaker1: i'd say about thirty feet, sir. 
speaker2: you know, if you cut your bathroom in half, you'd have my apartment.
speaker1: which bathroom is that, air?
speaker2: the small one.
speaker3: knox, for the ninth time, and you can quote me --
speaker2: mr. dent. what's

speaker1: holy 
speaker1: likes to kill?
speaker2: women find him magnetic.
speaker1: i bet they like him for his big charity balls.
speaker2: that, and the sweet smell of two hundred million bucks.
speaker1: well, you know me. the more they've got, the less they're worth. this guy must be the most worthless man in america.
speaker3: you disappoint me. why not the world?
speaker4: bruce wayne. -- i've read your work.
speaker1: great. give me a grant.
speaker4: i might consider it if you introduce me to miss vale.
speaker1: "this is miss vale." --
speaker2: that's intriguing. they haven't been
speaker1: some people think she has
speaker2: as far as i know.
speaker4: good. then with any luck we'll run into each other.
speaker5: excuse me, sir. commissioner gordon was compelled to leave --
speaker1: i know the rich are different, but that guy is
speaker1: what were you thinking?
speaker2: yum, yum.
speaker1: well,

speaker1: good lord, it we could put our hands on jack napier... why wasn't i told about this? who's in charge of the -- 
speaker2: lt. eckhardt, sir.

speaker1: just like the file cabinets. 
speaker2: i don't get it. if this place is cleaned out already, what do we need five men?
speaker3: you men are dismissed. we'll take over from here. any man who opens fire on jack napier... will answer to me. eckhardt tries to slink off. gordon grabs him roughly. gordon you. stick around.
speaker3: i'm in charge here. not carl grissom.

speaker1: commissioner. do us both a favor. 
speaker1: bruce wayne? date? he called you up and asked you for a date?...
speaker1: yeah. "mister one-nighter." because that's the average length of his relationships with women.
speaker2: the current record is almost two weeks. that cover girl -- what's her name? you must've shot her, vicki --
speaker1: tell her about the peanuts.
speaker3: peanuts?
speaker1: yeah. peanuts. which is how he goes through
speaker3: plain or roasted? alex, i'm very flattered that you've gone out and done all this research.
speaker1: why? aw, come on, vicki, i'm a reporter. i'm curious. i do this for a living.
speaker3: i told him yes.
speaker1: miranda, i'm busy. go be productive.

speaker1: too much work. i'm not really the physical type. -- thank you, alfred. 
speaker2: you do a very convincing imitation. mm, this is tasty. what's yours?
speaker1: two drinks and i start swinging from the rooftops. tell me, vicki. there's something i'm very curious about. what took you down to corto maltese?
speaker2: ... i guess i needed a change.
speaker1: you were one of the most successful magazine photographers in the city.
speaker2: have you ever been to corto maltese?
speaker1: not since the shooting started.
speaker2: we went there once when i was little. i played on the beach. and at nights -- they had a band -- i danced with my father on the hotel patio. that was corto maltese. when the war broke out i had to go back. and i promised myself that this time... i wouldn't look away.
speaker1: what did you see?
speaker2: ... terror.
speaker1: there's terror everywhere. some types are just more --
speaker1: insulation?
speaker2: bruce, really, when i say these things i don't mean to criticize
speaker2: i'm happy to talk about something else. i don't want to be depressing.
speaker2: i'm sorry, bruce, i have to ask. are you like this with the other women you know? -- because i just can't seem to get a handle on this conversation.
speaker1: vicki, if i say anything cryptic, or... ambiguous, i think you should put the most flattering possible interpretation on it. because even if it doesn't sound that way... that's how i'll mean it. bingo. the guy's a chessplayer, but on the other hand he's also rather touchingly, almost childishly,

speaker1: you 
speaker1: ... we could try that.

speaker1: it's me. "sugar bumps." 
speaker2: jack? thank i can't believe it's you.
speaker1: is that what you "heard"?
speaker1: i've died once already. it wasn't so bad. -- in fact i

speaker1: ... the rent? paid? 
speaker2: so why don't we hear this from grissom?
speaker3: i got something i'd like to know.
speaker4: and what happens if we say no?
speaker5: nobody wants a war, carmine. if we can't do business, we shake hands and part friends.
speaker4: that's it?
speaker5: that's it.
speaker6: ... you're

speaker1: i said i'd call you the minute i got free. and i did. -- and here we are. 
speaker2: hm hmm. lunch. not even dinner.
speaker1: vicki. do you want the whole truth? all coyness aside? i wish i had more time to give you. every day i don't see you, i miss you. now. are you going to waste this lovely afternoon being all mad at me?
speaker2: okay, i'm a you sound so much like someone i used to... bruce? i know this is silly, but -- you're not
speaker1: ... looks like a

speaker1: oh my are you all right? 
speaker2: all

speaker1: oh my i've seen this picture. 
speaker2: i guess so. pulitzer prize, 1963.
speaker1: his face. allie, look at his face.
speaker2: something like this -- what do you suppose this could drive a guy to?
speaker2: he walks out on his own party. half an hour later, the caped crusader turns up in full bat-drag. sees an execution, freaks out in an alleyway. no place to
speaker2: oh? why is that, vicki?
speaker1: he's best friends with jim gordon and harvey dent. they would
speaker2: your little chum is out of his mind. next time you call him up and he can't go

speaker1: mmm. how'd you find it? 
speaker2: called her agent.
speaker3: not to me. i need a job.
speaker4: now vicki. everyone
speaker4: oh. really.

speaker1: the fashion world was stunned today by the sudden deaths of top models kelly brinkley and christie emberg. cause of death has been attributed to a violent allergic reaction, although authorities have not yet ruled out the possibility of drug use. dave? 
speaker2: in gotham, plans continue for the city's 300th birthday celebration. the four-day event will conclude with the unveiling, in gotham harbor, of the newly restored 'lady gotham'...

speaker1: ... sixteen new deaths, with no clues as to the joker's identity or demands. the list at potentially lethal products now includes: perfume -- mascara -- cold cream -- 
speaker2: men's cologne toothpaste mouthwash -- underarm deodorant --
speaker1: hair spray -- eyebrow pencil -- moisturizing cream --

speaker1: get dressed. we're going out. 
speaker2: no, but your table is ready.
speaker3: put this on

speaker1: okay, boys, let's broaden our minds. 
speaker2: ... thank you.
speaker1: unfortunate, but i think we can work around it.
speaker1: a visual record, yes. a before-and- after kind of thing. this could
speaker1: ...
speaker3: jack?
speaker1: christ, it's my

speaker1: you said i could look at the pictures before you -- before you -- 
speaker2: shucks, honey, i forgot.
speaker3: i'm in trouble
speaker2: alicia! come here, have a seat. show miss vale why you wear the mask.
speaker2: what? i

speaker1: ignition! 
speaker2: ignition.

speaker1: i called them. 
speaker2: shouldn't we --

speaker1: what about her? what about the girl? 
speaker2: he

speaker1: can't we -- 
speaker2: too many people. come on!
speaker3: shields.
speaker4: ... i don't know. we'd better get out of here. westbound on 36th. do you copy??
speaker4: take 'em! i want his
speaker1: ... a hundred and eight?

speaker1: wait a minute. 
speaker2: ... what
speaker3: i dunno. you seen him before?
speaker1: maybe he's got some kind of i.d.
speaker2: good idea. let's check his wallet.
speaker4: we'll worry about it later. plug him. in the head.

speaker1: who cares? wax that freak. 
speaker2: well -- i think you might consider thanking
speaker2: i just wanted to distract them. i wasn't trying to get a picture of
speaker2: i won't let you have it. the batman is amused. he smiles menacingly. vicki i know you can break my neck and take it. but the joker's on that same roll. i --
speaker3: the joker is a murderer. and
speaker3: all right, here's a compromise. i'll develop the photos. you keep the jokers and i'll keep the rest.
speaker2: how do i know you won't keep them all?
speaker3: because i'll take you with me.

speaker1: ignition. 
speaker2: ignition.
speaker3: there's somebody

speaker1: quite a while. i took the scenic route. 
speaker2: well, i've certainly enjoyed it. what's that?
speaker1: garage door.

speaker1: better. it's not on the market yet. 
speaker2: it doesn't protect your head, though.
speaker1: that's why i wear a target on my
speaker1: stumbled across it when i was a boy.
speaker2: i don't like bats. not that kind.
speaker1: they used to terrify me. but i forced myself to keep coming back, and -- -- i guess i became the thing i feared the most. i'll do your photos now.
speaker1: i have sponsors.
speaker2: the computers?
speaker1: i'm running a check on the tainted products. there
speaker2: wait. you can just tap into any corporate database you want?
speaker1: oh, no. i let the fbi do that. then i tap into the fbi. -- your photos are ready.
speaker2: you could've killed him, you know.
speaker1: i had to save
speaker1: are you talking to me?

speaker1: i'm sorry about the way things went between us. i'd very much like to see you again. 
speaker2: well, bruce... i don't think... that would be possible.
speaker1: i wish you'd reconsider. i didn't stand you up today. the museum was closed when i got there.
speaker2: i, uh...

speaker1: the fbi. you know who's got the fbi computer contract? wayne technologies. the guy's bats all right. he's 
speaker1: not what?
speaker2: he's not crazy.
speaker1: vicki. we got a wealthy millionaire here... who dresses up like a bat. he goes out at night and swings around -- in his cape -- on a
speaker1: well, when he does you know my number.

speaker1: product scare drops dow to 1100 biggest one-day decline in history 
speaker2: hi, bruce.

speaker1: ... we deal. 
speaker2: harvey, please. i mean -- if your first official act as d.a.
speaker2: harvey, the police are working round the clock, the feds are coming in. this thing could break any minute now. tell him, jim.
speaker3: cut the deal.
speaker4: hey knox, cheer up. it ain't the batman but it's pretty choice.

speaker1: "while this administration remains vehemently opposed to terrorism in any form, we are prepared to negotiate any reasonable demands which will guarantee the safety of the populace." 
speaker2: huh.
speaker2: ten million dollars. ten million dollars. ten mi-- you cheapskates! i've just wiped out the

speaker1: alexander knox. gotham 
speaker1: actually, i wanted to talk to batman. pass that on to mr. wayne, would you?
speaker1: well, that's how it is, chum. she tells me everything.
speaker2: what is it you want?
speaker1: simple. you know the score. one column -- and i can bring all this tumbling down. i can take you off the streets once and for all. i want you to hang up the suit. and i want you to stay away from vicki.
speaker2: i can't do that. not while the joker's still out there.
speaker1: then stay away from vicki. that's all i want, man. i just want your word.
speaker2: there's something i don't understand. if you've got the story, why haven't you printed it?
speaker1: because i --
speaker2: do you want a drink?
speaker1: yeah, a drink. "civilized." man-to- man, right?
speaker2: alfred, bring something for mr.

speaker1: it wouldn't matter much. 
speaker2: i don't understand it. you can do so much good for people.
speaker2: you're one man. you can't save everybody.
speaker1: what it i could save a handful? -- what if i could save one?
speaker2: bruce, at the rate you're going, you can't even save yourself.
speaker1: sometimes... i don't know if there's enough of me left to save.
speaker2: oh, i've got to have some coffee or
speaker3: package tor miss vale.
speaker1: set it down by the door. on the left-hand side.

speaker1: very thoughtful. don't touch it. 
speaker2: oh, bruce. don't tell me you carry it
speaker1: ... they're
speaker2: ... where are you calling from?
speaker2: i'm sorry, she hung up. what are --
speaker1: finding out where she is.
speaker2: how can you do that if she's already off the line?
speaker1: i've had an automatic tracer on this number ever since he tracked you to the museum.
speaker2: what now!
speaker1: hang on. i have to leave a message.
speaker1: there's a garage in this building?
speaker3: hey, boss, something's up. the elevator's working.
speaker4: they'll be sorry.
speaker4: oh my how does he

speaker1: like your boyfriend. he's kinda 
speaker1: gosh, i could kill you, but then you'd miss my
speaker1: batman! don't you even recognize your old pal jack? after all... you

speaker1: my name is bruce wayne. you're welcome to stay here as long as you want. 
speaker1: he'll be ready when you do. remember what happened at the apartment.
speaker2: all right, bruce, what do you suggest?
speaker1: i suggest a nice big
speaker2: we've
speaker1: sorry. i can't let you leave.
speaker3: you can't keep me here, man. that's kidnapping.
speaker1: if i let you leave, you'll do the same thing again. you'll go after the joker... and you'll wind up dead.

speaker1: it's all right, alfred. everything's under control. 
speaker2: ... very good, sir.

speaker1: upstairs. he's quite docile. 
speaker2: i know that feeling. it won't last.
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: he'll be taken care of financially. beyond that... you know what to do. don't let all this go to waste.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: yeah. yeah. little winded. did you

speaker1: how did you... 
speaker2: i
speaker2: forget it. relax. ... he's

speaker1: well now, you're not exactly the picture of mental health, are you. 
speaker2: ... murderer...
speaker1: bruce, we're both murderers. think how many people you've killed by letting me live.

speaker1: ohhhh... you don't mean that. 
speaker2: i don't, but... i
speaker2: i guess you did it, didn't you. you saved everyone. almost.
speaker1: i don't know how to explain this so it makes sense... but

