speaker1: we've been at this for six months. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: and you haven't made an ounce of progress.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: what do you want me to say? that i'm supposed to feel remorse because i act the way i do? the truth is i don't. dr. greenbaum shakes her head and takes notes. sebastian look, i'm not like all the other kids in high school. i don't care about book reports and extra-credit. teachers are idiots anyway. the only challenge out there for me is women. you see a girl you like. you pursue them. you conquer. you move on. it's exciting.
speaker1: but you said you have the worst reputation.
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: don't you want to change that?
speaker2: let me tell you something, doctor. chicks love a guy with a bad rap. they say they don't, but they don't mean it. they all think that they're the ones that are going to "save me." the trick is to let them think it's true.
speaker1: i think that's all the time we have for today.
speaker2: same time next week?
speaker1: no. this is going to be our last session.
speaker2: why? i like spending time with you. you know, you're quite attractive for a woman your age. you have killer legs.
speaker1: this isn't a joke. your parents spend a lot of money to send you here. i'm trying to help you.
speaker2: don't be insecure, doc. you're a big help. sebastian picks up a book of freud. sebastian he was a coke addict, you know.
speaker1: you think you can come in here with that cute little smirk on your face and try and flirt with me. it doesn't work, sebastian.
speaker2: it works a little.
speaker1: no it doesn't. i see right through you.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: i hope for your sake you grow out of this immature phase. it's going to get you into trouble.
speaker2: well, you don't have to get nasty about it.
speaker1: my daughter, rachel.
speaker2: yummy.
speaker1: don't even think about it. rachel is an exceptionally well rounded young woman, who happens to be attending princeton this fall. she's way too smart to fall for your line of b.s.
speaker2: really? care to make a wager on that?
speaker1: good luck, sebastian.
speaker2: what, nervous i'm going to win?
speaker1: would you please leave.

speaker1: hi, mom. 
speaker2: honey, is something wrong?
speaker1: he told me he loved me and i believed him.
speaker2: who told you?
speaker1: you don't know him. i'm so stupid.
speaker2: alright honey, just calm down, take a deep breath, and step out of the circle.
speaker1: would you cut the psycho babble bullshit, mom. there's pictures of me on the internet.

speaker1: what kind of pictures? 
speaker2: nudie pictures, what do you think?
speaker1: christ, how can you be so stupid?
speaker2: i don't know. he was just so charming. all he did was talk about how i had killer legs and how we wanted to photograph them. things just got out of hand from there. mom? are you there? mom? mother!!!!

speaker1: i can't tell you how happy we are that 
speaker2: i'll do my best.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker2: i was thanking her. vietnamese is such a beautiful language. mrs. caldwell kathryn is a straight a student at oakwood as well as being president of the french club. listen to whatever she has to say and you'll go far.
speaker2: you're too kind.
speaker1: how do you do it? i mean with all peer pressuring that goes on in high school. where do you get your strength?
speaker2: i know this sounds corny, but whenever i feel temptations of peer pressure,
speaker4: turn to and he helps me through the problem. call me an anachronism, but it works.
speaker1: that's beautiful.
speaker3: what are the boys like?
speaker1: cecile, is that the best you can do? you must forgive her, kathryn. she's never been in a co-educational atmosphere before.
speaker2: don't worry, it's totally understandable. most of the boys that matriculate at oakwood are very upstanding gentleman, however there are the occasional bad apples.
speaker1: like your step-brother sebastian. i can't believe they didn't expel him after what he did to the school nurse.
speaker5: i hear she's recovering quite well.
speaker1: you remember my daughter, cecile.
speaker5: my, what an adorable shirt you're wearing.
speaker3: my father just took me on a trip to australia.
speaker5: how are things down under? blossoming i hope.
speaker2: cecile's attending oakwood in the fall.
speaker5: outstanding.
speaker3: what year are you in?
speaker5: i'm what you would call a fifth year senior.
speaker3: but i thought high school is only four years.
speaker5: it is, unless you're a up, like myself. he winks at cecile.
speaker1: i think we'll be going now. thanks for all your help.
speaker2: i'll call you later and we'll get together and plan your curriculum.
speaker3: thanks. nice meeting you.
speaker5: ciao.
speaker1: let's go, cecile. now!
speaker5: do you care to tell me what mrs. white-trash and her stupid daughter are doing in my house?
speaker2: i'm just taking the poor girl under my wing.
speaker5: lovely. how is your gold digging of a mother enjoying bali? zipping through my inheritance per usual?
speaker2: hopefully, though she suspects that your decrepit alcoholic father is diddling the maid.
speaker5: it was fine.
speaker2: oh, poor baby. well you can relax. i have a mission for you.
speaker5: what?

speaker1: you know court reynolds, son of garret reynolds? 
speaker2: you mean the who dumped you over fourth of july weekend?

speaker1: i went to great lengths to please court. huge sacrifices were made on my part to keep him happy. 
speaker2: swallow?
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: in any event, my feelings were hurt when i learned that he had fallen for someone else. someone chaste... pure... innocent. 
speaker2: you don't mean?

speaker1: none other than cecile caldwell. 
speaker1: i don't find this very funny,
speaker2: so that's what this is all about. we'll get together and plan your curriculum.
speaker1: keep your friends close and your enemies closer. when i get through with her, she'll be the premier blow job queen of the tri-state area and poor little court's heart will be shattered.
speaker2: why go through cecile? why not just attack court?
speaker1: because if there's an attack made on court it could be traced back to me. i can't allow that to happen. everybody loves me and i intend to keep it that way.
speaker2: i see your point... though why should i care?
speaker1: i need you to seduce our young cecile. introduce her to your world of decadence and debauchery.
speaker2: sounds intriguing.
speaker1: she's quite cute you know. young
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: oh come on, kathryn. it's too easy. "but i thought high school was only four years." i mean, please. she knows nothing. she's seen nothing. i could have her under the table at au bar sucking me off before the appetizer arrived. go get one of those moron friends of yours to do it. i have a reputation to uphold.
speaker1: oh but diddling the therapist's daughter is a challenge?
speaker2: that was just simple revenge. what i have planned requires sheer genius.
speaker1: i'm not interested in the latest dating tips from jonathan taylor thomas.
speaker2: shut up and turn to page 64.
speaker1: christ, is she for real?
speaker2: oh yes. i've read it over and over again. this baby's the real deal. daddy's little angel. a paradigm of chastity and virtue.
speaker1: b.f.d. what do you plan to do? fly to kansas and woo little dorothy.
speaker2: it just so happens we're not in kansas anymore. our little angel's father has accepted the new headmaster position at oakwood. she's staying with my aunt up in connecticut while daddy sells his house. can you imagine what this would do for my reputation? the new headmaster's virginal daughter before school starts? it will be my greatest victory.
speaker1: you don't stand a chance. even this is out of your league.
speaker2: care to make a wager on that?
speaker1: i'll think about it...
speaker2: oh well, duty calls. time to add another chapter to my work of art. he holds up a leather bound journal.
speaker1: oh gee, your journal. could you be more queer?
speaker2: could you be more desperate to read it?
speaker1: oh sebastian. about that little wager of yours. he stops. kathryn count me in.
speaker2: what are the terms?
speaker1: if you lose, then that hot little porsche of yours is mine.
speaker2: and if i win?
speaker1: i'll give you something you've been jerking off about ever since our parents got married.
speaker2: be more specific.
speaker1: in english. i'll your brains out.
speaker2: what makes you think i'd go for that bet? that's a seventy thousand dollar car.
speaker1: because i'm the only person you can't control and it kills you. sebastian sneers at her. kathryn do we have a deal?
speaker2: no way, that car means everything to me.
speaker1: you can put it anywhere.
speaker2: even there?
speaker1: it would feel so yummy. sebastian hesitates, then shakes her hand. kathryn happy hunting.

speaker1: it's a beautiful home you have here mrs. rosemond. 
speaker2: thank you, annette. chance hill has been with my family for over sixty years. does your family do much riding?
speaker1: my mother and i used to ride a lot, before she got sick.
speaker2: i'm sorry about that.
speaker1: my grandpa, used to breed horses on his farm so i would come over and ride all the time.
speaker2: i'm familiar with a lot of breeders in the mid-west. what's his name?
speaker1: ben schwarz.
speaker2: schwarz. jewish?
speaker1: german.
speaker2: doesn't ring a bell. annette throws her a concerned look. aunt helen in any event, i want you to consider this your home for the time being.
speaker1: thank you. it's so peaceful and quiet around here. bang! a shotgun sounds in the distance. annette what was that?
speaker2: sebastian must be here.

speaker1: pull! 
speaker2: sebastian!
speaker2: i've missed you too. how are your parents?
speaker1: they're coming back next week. i write them everyday.
speaker2: sebastian, this is annette harrison. she's going to be staying with me for a few weeks.
speaker1: i guess that makes two of us. welcome. he extends his hand and they shake. sebastian why don't you head in and whip us up some of that ice tea of yours? we'll take care of the horses.
speaker2: anything for you, my dear. sebastian climbs on aunt helen's horse. aunt helen stay out of trouble you two.
speaker3: we will.
speaker1: so what year are you going into?
speaker4: junior.
speaker1: got a boyfriend back home?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker4: i don't know. relationships seem too distracting. i'd rather concentrate on my studies.
speaker1: you a lesbo?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: nice.
speaker4: are you often this offensive on a first encounter?
speaker1: i was just being honest. you happen to have a nice ass. sorry.
speaker1: i read your teen beat manifesto.
speaker4: you did?
speaker1: i must say i found it rather appalling.
speaker4: that's a first. most people praised me for it.
speaker1: most people are morons. i mean who are you to knock what you've never experienced?
speaker4: i wasn't knocking anything. it's just my belief that people shouldn't actually experience the act of love until they are in love and that people our age are too immature to be in touch with those emotions.
speaker1: oh really?
speaker4: take yourself. you've slept with several women. are you happier because of it?
speaker1: how do you know i've been with several women?
speaker4: a friend wrote me.
speaker1: well maybe you should get to know the person before you judge them instead of listening to some gossip.
speaker4: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to upset you... but you still didn't answer the question. an uncomfortable silence falls between them,
speaker1: who the is taking the time to write letters, spreading this about me?
speaker4: it's not really important.
speaker1: fine, forget it. it's obvious that we're not going to be friends.
speaker4: why are you being so dramatic?
speaker1: look, i've got a lot of problems and i'm trying to deal with them and the last thing i need is people spreading about me.
speaker4: alright, i said i was sorry. can we start over again? i think we've gotten off on the wrong foot. she approaches him and they shake. annette annette harrison.
speaker1: sebastian valmont.
speaker5: that's good, that's good.

speaker1: oh, i suck. i suck. 
speaker2: relax. it's okay. take a deep breath. cecile takes a deep breath ronald you're concentrating too much on your bowing. let it flow. he stands and sits behind her. ronald here, let me help you. he places his hand over hers. ronald now close your eyes and let's try again.
speaker3: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to interrupt. your playing was beautiful.
speaker1: kathryn, this is ronald clifford. he's giving me music lessons over the summer.
speaker2: pleased to meet you.
speaker3: likewise i'm sure.
speaker1: ronald is one of the few high school students attending juliard. he's composing his first opera.
speaker2: it's based on the life of doctor martin luther king.
speaker1: doctor king is my favorite.
speaker2: i guess our hour's up. same time tomorrow?

speaker1: unbelievable. some fag, no offense - 
speaker2: - none taken -
speaker1: - wrote a letter to this chick and saying about me.
speaker2: any ideas who it could be?
speaker1: blaine, if i knew who it was that person wouldn't be alive right now.
speaker2: where did you say she's from?
speaker1: kansas. who the do i know in kansas?
speaker2: greg mcconnell.
speaker1: the football stud?
speaker2: he's from kansas city. i wouldn't be surprised if he was your rat.
speaker1: it would make sense. mcconnell hates me. i fingered his girlfriend at the game last year.
speaker2: i don't think that bothered him.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: let's just say greg likes tackling tight ends on and off the field.
speaker1: are you me?
speaker2: i you not. mcconnell used to sneak in my dorm room drunk every month. we'd go at it for a while, then as soon as he'd cum, he starts freaking out. you know - "what are you doing, man? i'm not a fag. i'll kick your if you say anything." it's like, for christsakes greg, you're gay, deal with it. the only reason why i let him continue with his charade is because he's got a mouth like a hoover.
speaker1: too bad he's in kansas this summer.
speaker2: not anymore. football team started practice last week. he's already called me to hook up.
speaker1: really. you think you could arrange a little get together with him tonight on my behalf?
speaker2: hmmm. i do believe bravo is showing spartacus on television tonight.
speaker1: outstanding.
speaker2: don't think it's not going to cost you.
speaker1: no problem. just make sure your front door is unlocked. shall we say the "stroke of midnight" no pun intended?

speaker1: so, rumor has it that you went on a date with court reynolds. i hear he's very nice. 
speaker2: he's alright. he kept talking about this bulimic headcase he dumped over fourth of july.
speaker1: really? bulimic headcase.
speaker2: what a loser she must be. anyhow, court's invited me to the hamptons for labor day weekend.
speaker1: that's great.
speaker2: you think so? i don't know. i guess i'm just scared.
speaker1: what are you scared of?
speaker2: ah duh. boys. i've never even gone to first base with a guy. what do i do?
speaker1: haven't you ever practiced with one of your girlfriends?
speaker2: eww. no. that's gross.
speaker1: it's not gross. how else do you think girls learn? here turn around and face me.
speaker2: are you for real?
speaker1: do you want to learn or not?
speaker2: i guess. it still sounds gross.
speaker1: see that wasn't so bad.
speaker2: it was nothing.
speaker1: let's try it again, only this time i'm going to stick my tongue in your mouth. when i do that i want you to massage my tongue with yours. that's what first base is.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: eyes closed.
speaker2: that was cool.
speaker1: maybe you should try it on your friend ronald sometime.
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: oh come on cecile. he's crazy about you.
speaker2: is it that obvious? kathryn nods. cecile he sends me letters you know. love letters.
speaker1: that's so romantic. have you responded?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well do you like him?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: cecile, we just made out in the middle of central park. you can trust me.
speaker2: i do like him. i can't stop thinking about him. cecile starts to cry. kathryn hugs her. cecile what am i going to do? if my mother found out about ronald she would kill me.
speaker1: listen to me. your mother must never know. never.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: did you hide the letters?
speaker2: yes. they're in this antique doll house in my room.
speaker1: i want you to make me copies of his letters and bring them to me.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: cecile if there's one thing i'm great at it's love letters. with my help, he'll be eating out of the palm of your hand. perhaps we can arrange a little get together for the two of you at my house.
speaker2: you'd do that for me?
speaker1: of course i would. we're friends, right?
speaker2: best friends.

speaker1: excuse me. excuse me! 
speaker2: you talking to me?
speaker1: look, i know this is your house and all, but do you think you couid keep it down? i'm trying to read.
speaker2: what'cha reading?
speaker1: the fountainhead.
speaker2: great book.
speaker1: you've read the fountainhead?
speaker2: several times. i'm not as as i act, you know. when howard roark makes love to dominique francon... most romantic scene in all of literature.
speaker1: romantic? he rapes her.
speaker2: that's a matter of opinion.
speaker1: you need help.
speaker2: why don't you come join me for a swim and we'll discuss it.
speaker1: at this hour? i don't think so.
speaker2: oh come on. quit acting like a geriatric and get in the pool.
speaker1: gee, with an invitation like that how could a girl refuse.
speaker2: please.
speaker1: give me a minute. i'll be right down.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: her yet? 
speaker2: i'm working on it.
speaker1: loser.
speaker2: blow me.
speaker1: call me later.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: ow. that hurt you stupid
speaker3: sorry.
speaker1: oops.

speaker1: you know it amazes me that someone as bright as you can be so horrible. 
speaker2: what? another letter from your friend?
speaker1: this is my favorite part. even more treacherous and dangerous than he is charming and fascinating. he has never taken a single step or spoken a single word without some dishonorable or criminal intention. every young girl he has successfully pursued has regretted it.
speaker2: you know you could at least have the decency of telling me who's badmouthing me so i might have the opportunity to confront them face to face. how do you know it's not some girl who's off at me for breaking up with her?
speaker1: i sincerely doubt it.
speaker2: give me the letter. annette smiles and tears the letter up. sebastian why did you do that?
speaker1: the last thing i need is you going into my room searching for this while i'm away.
speaker1: how's the water?
speaker2: refreshing. she dives in the pool and surfaces. sebastian you're right you know.
speaker1: about what?
speaker2: about what you said today in the stable. i'm not a happy person.
speaker1: i never said that.
speaker2: you implied it.
speaker1: look, i didn't mean to give you a hard time.
speaker2: no, it's okay. i mean i look at you with all your morals and values and well, you seem to be happy in your choices. i envy you. no
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: seriously, you're amazing. you have everything going for you. you're smart, you're beautiful, you're determined. you're everything i want in a girlfriend.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker2: i wasn't kidding. i'd like to take you out.
speaker1: look, i'm flattered but, seriously it could never work.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because you act like a pig.
speaker2: do you deny that there's an attraction between us?
speaker1: i don't... i don't want to answer that... look we're friends.
speaker2: you don't find me cute? come on, look at these muscles.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but you're not my type.
speaker2: fine. friends it is. i can live with that.
speaker1: you're naked.
speaker2: it's my house.
speaker1: that's repulsive.
speaker2: what's the big deal? we're friends. haven't you ever seen your friends naked before?
speaker1: get some manners.
speaker2: sorry, i didn't know you were peenaphobic.
speaker3: oh baby... oh baby...
speaker2: baby? right on time.

speaker1: oh oh i'm gonna cum. i'm gonna cum... i'm gonna... 
speaker2: hey blaine, did i leave my... holy
speaker1: 
speaker2: greg, is that you under the covers?
speaker1: get out of here.
speaker2: whoa!
speaker1: i told you to lock the door.
speaker3: i thought i did.
speaker1: look valmont. this was the first time i've ever done something like this. i was --
speaker2: -- really drunk and blah blah blah blah blah.
speaker1: please don't tell anyone. this could ruin my career.
speaker2: your career? what about your family? can you imagine the humiliation your father's going to feel when he finds out his pride and joy is a fudge- packer.
speaker3: hey hey hey. careful valmont, he's not a fudge packer. chugger yes but not a fudge packer.
speaker1: please. i'm begging you. i'll do anything. let's just forget the whole thing.
speaker2: hmmmmmmm... nah. i can't help you there. it's too good to pass up. greg starts to cry. sebastian after all, it is you who's bad- mouthing me to annette harrison.
speaker1: annette harrison? i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: come on greg. you're the only one who knows her. the truth will save you.
speaker1: i swear on my life, i never said a word to her about you.
speaker3: i think he's telling the truth valmont. greg couldn't write a grocery list let alone a letter.
speaker2: alright, i believe you. stop crying. your secret's safe with me. greg wipes his eyes. sebastian however, this whole incident's kind of turned me on. sebastian unzips his fly. sebastian you get my point.
speaker3: our boy just can't get enough
speaker1: you sick son of a
speaker2: i'll leave you guys alone. score one for the team, greg. sebastian leaves the room, then re-enters. sebastian come to think of it, there is something you can do for me.

speaker1: need a lift? 
speaker2: no thank you.
speaker1: how are you today?
speaker2: give it up.
speaker1: oh right, last night. i guess i owe you an apology.
speaker2: i'm not going to speak to you till you realize that you can't intimidate me.
speaker1: i said i was sorry.
speaker2: it was fine.
speaker1: i wish i could say the same for myself. i was up thinking about you all night.
speaker2: i thought we agreed that we were going to be friends.
speaker1: yes, well unfortunately i can't just switch the "on" button to "off." the sad fact of the matter is that you've unintentionally rubbed off on me.
speaker2: and that's a bad thing?
speaker1: i'm trying to better myself, but the one person who can help me is the same one pushing me away.
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i'm not here to be your savior.
speaker1: well try this one on for size. i think i'm falling in love with you.
speaker2: you don't even know me.
speaker1: don't you believe in love at first sight?
speaker2: yes, but only when it's mutual. and this is far from mutual.
speaker1: ouch. do you think we could spend some time together this morning?
speaker2: i can't. i'm seeing a friend.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: that's none of your business.
speaker1: how about tonight?
speaker2: i'm busy.
speaker1: doing what?
speaker2: that's also none of your business.
speaker1: tell me what to do, annette. how can i win your heart. i'll do anything. i can't get you out of my mind.
speaker2: you truly want to do something to make me happy?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and you promise to abide by it?
speaker1: without question.
speaker2: alright. i want you to leave and go back to new york.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if that's a problem, then i'll make arrangements to stay with some friends.
speaker1: i'll leave this afternoon. happy?
speaker2: it's not about being happy. you and i can't -

speaker1: he told you he's failing in love with you? i've never known him to say those words before. 
speaker2: really? i thought he said it all the time.
speaker1: that's not his style. one thing i can say about valmont. he always speaks the truth. annette looks lost. greg what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: is there a mutual feeling between you two?
speaker2: no. i mean. i don't know. what else do you know about him?
speaker1: not a whole lot. we take some classes together. he's got a bad rep, but it's mostly
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: well, a lot of people are jealous cause he's loaded.
speaker2: i don't know. i've been hearing some awful things about him.
speaker1: from who?
speaker2: i can't tell you. i'm sworn to secrecy.
speaker1: annette, how long have we known each other?
speaker2: forever.
speaker1: now it's my job to look out for you. you're like a kid sister to me. do i look like some kind of gossip queen?
speaker2: you promise not to say anything?
speaker1: on my mother's life.
speaker2: okay...

speaker1: positive. 
speaker2: did you do everything i asked you to?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you told her i never said i love you before?
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: you told her that people are jealous cause i'm loaded?
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: and you think she bought it?
speaker1: i'm pretty sure she did.
speaker2: pretty sure or sure sure?
speaker1: she bought it.
speaker2: i'll be in touch.

speaker1: enough with the music. her already. 
speaker2: you would not believe what--
speaker1: shhh.

speaker1: that was beautiful. 
speaker2: almost as beautiful as you.
speaker2: well, i guess it's getting late. please thank kathryn for the use of her steinway.
speaker1: i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker3: 
speaker3: what's wrong with you?
speaker4: you ready for this? i've recently discovered that our good friend mrs. caldwell is the one who sent the letter to annette urging her to stay away from me.
speaker3: interesting.
speaker4: i now plan to devote all my energies to destroying the douche bag. any luck corrupting her daughter?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: call cecile up and get her to come over. i'll bust that cherry in a heartbeat.
speaker3: the plot thickens. it appears that cecile has fallen for her music teacher.
speaker4: ooo, i'm sure mrs. caldwell will love that.
speaker3: not to mention court reynolds. unfortunately, ronald's moving with the speed of a special olympic bobsledder.
speaker4: what's your plan of attack?
speaker3: i rat cecile out to mommy. mommy goes ballistic and ends their relationship.
speaker4: but who will they turn to for help?
speaker3: cecile is planning to go away with court next week. i'll need you to speed up her sexual awakenings. sebastian rubs her shoulders.
speaker4: i'm at your service.
speaker3: thank you. mmmm, that feels good.
speaker4: oh sis. you're so tense.
speaker3: i hate when things don't go my way. it makes me so horny.
speaker4: i hate it too.
speaker3: i know.
speaker4: moving along quite well.
speaker3: have you succeeded in your task?
speaker4: any day now.
speaker3: well, let me know when you do. until then. she takes his hand out from under her pants. kathryn no pootie. kathryn smiles. kathryn sorry.

speaker1: no, not at all. 
speaker2: well, i was just calling to see how you're doing.
speaker1: i'm... i'm alright.
speaker2: how was your date?
speaker1: it wasn't a date. he's just a friend.
speaker2: well, i was just calling to tell you i was thinking about you and i miss you. i'll let you go.
speaker1: wait, don't hang up.
speaker2: okay?
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: reading.
speaker1: what are you reading?
speaker2: of human bondage.
speaker1: somerset maugham.
speaker2: yeah, it's pretty relevant considering my situation.
speaker1: you're not gonna start that again.
speaker2: no. i'm through with my childish games when it comes to you. hold on, that's my other line. rub.
speaker1: sure. have a good night.
speaker2: i will.

speaker1: of human bondage. you're such a artist. 
speaker2: shut up, gretchen. you don't even know what it is.
speaker1: duh, it's a book.
speaker2: do you know what it's about?
speaker3: who cares. books are for fags.
speaker2: books are for fags. i weep for the future.

speaker1: here's something you might like. 
speaker2: do you carry any real fur?
speaker1: no. all our fur is faux.
speaker2: of course. the animals. how silly of me.
speaker3: i got your message and came as quick as i could.
speaker2: i hope i didn't keep you from something.
speaker3: not at all. what's wrong?
speaker2: it's cecile.
speaker3: what about her?
speaker2: well... you promise you won't say anything to her. we've developed a friendship and...
speaker3: kathryn, you have my word. it isn't drugs is it?
speaker2: it's worse. i think there's something going on between cecile and her music teacher.
speaker3: ronald? that's crazy.
speaker2: i know. she's so young and he's so -
speaker3: black.
speaker2: he's been sending her love letters that she hides under her doll house. i questioned whether or not to tell you, but something like this could destroy her reputation at oakwood and i don't want to see her get hurt.
speaker3: i can't thank you enough.
speaker2: you will be discreet about this?
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker1: will that be cash or charge?
speaker2: oh poo. i left my credit cards at home.
speaker3: let me get that for you.
speaker2: oh please. i can't have you do that.
speaker3: it's the least i can do.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: who the do you think you are?! 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: i'm paying you to give cello lessons.
speaker2: mrs. caldwell i think you're misunderstanding something.
speaker1: is that so? mrs. caldwell holds up ronald's letters. mrs. caldwell you care to explain this then?
speaker3: where did you find those?
speaker1: margarita found them while cleaning your room.
speaker3: those are my letters!
speaker1: don't you raise your voice at me. go to your room, now. cecile turns to ronald. mrs. caldwell now!
speaker2: got me off the streets? i live on 59th and park.
speaker1: whatever. you are never to set foot in this house again and you are never and i mean never to see my daughter again. is that understood?!
speaker2: first of all, maam, i never touched your daughter and second, i would like to think that in these times someone of your status could look beyond racial lines.
speaker1: oh don't give me any of that racist crap. my husband and i gave money to colin powell.
speaker2: i guess that puts me in my place. thank you for the hospitality mrs. caldwell. it was a true awakening.

speaker1: wow. i never knew she had these kind of feelings. 
speaker2: you're a lucky guy.
speaker1: she really loves me. sebastian and kathryn roll their eyes. ronald what do i do?
speaker3: what do you do? tell her you love her.
speaker1: but i can't even see her. she doesn't have her own phone, i don't even know her e-mail address.
speaker2: ronald, e-mail's for geeks and pedophiles. be romantic. write her another letter.
speaker1: how will i get to her?
speaker4: we'll make sure she gets it.
speaker1: why are you being so good to me?
speaker3: because we want to see cecile happy and we know you make her happy. she hands ronald a pen and paper. kathryn now you just march yourself into the study and start writing. we'll be there to check on you in a minute.
speaker2: who are you calling?
speaker3: cecile. sebastian hangs up the phone. kathryn what are you doing?
speaker2: before we go through with this, i just want you to be aware of the damage we're going to cause.
speaker3: i'm aware.
speaker2: are you really? i mean, we've done some pretty up in our time but this... i mean, we're destroying an innocent girl. you do realize that.
speaker3: what is that? oh my it's your conscience.
speaker2: you amaze me.
speaker3: eat me, sebastian. it's alright for you to everyone, but because i'm a girl it's wrong. well let me tell you something, i didn't ask to be a girl. do you think i relish the fact that i have to act like mary sunshine twenty four seven, so i can be considered a "laaaady." do you think i take great delight when i hear - "kathryn is so wonderful." "kathryn is a model child." "kathryn is going to make an excellent wife one day." i'm the marsha brady of the upper east side and sometimes i want to kill myself for it. no, i don't enjoy being a part of the weaker and for that reason everyone around me is going to suffer. so there's your psychoanalysis doctor freud. now are you in or are you out?
speaker2: cecile. now i need you to listen to me very carefully. i have a letter from ronald that he asked me to give to you. now i can't exactly bring it to your house, since your mother despises me so here's what we're going to do.

speaker1: finished. 
speaker2: excellent.
speaker1: you think he'll like it?
speaker2: he'll love it.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: just taking your photo.
speaker1: i look terrible.
speaker2: mmmm, you're right. those clothes don't do you justice. why don't you take them off.
speaker1: i'm getting out of here.
speaker2: i'm sorry that was out of line.
speaker1: i want to go home.
speaker2: i was just kidding.
speaker1: i want to go home.
speaker2: okay, okay. i'll just call your mom and have her come pick you up.
speaker1: my mom? don't call my mom.
speaker2: why not? ... oh wow, she doesn't know you're here. in fact, you're grounded. you could get in a shitload of trouble for this. i think i should call her anyway.
speaker1: please please please. i'll do anything. just don't call my mom.
speaker2: cecile, all i want to do is give you a kiss.
speaker1: and then i can go home?
speaker2: of course. i'm not a monster.
speaker1: just a kiss, right?
speaker2: i swear.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: you promised to let me kiss you.
speaker1: but -
speaker3: cecile are you up yet? we're gonna to be late for the - she notices the bed is empty. mrs. caldwell cecile? she walks over the bathroom door and knocks. mrs. caldwell cecile?
speaker1: i'm in the bath, mom.
speaker3: well hurry up. i want to be at mrs.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: it was nice of you to invite us up for the weekend, helen. 
speaker2: more the merrier. is everything alright my dear?
speaker3: i'm just not feeling well.
speaker4: afternoon ladies.
speaker1: i didn't know you'd be here, sebastian.
speaker4: i wasn't planning on it, but being
speaker4: i hope she's alright.
speaker2: i better go check on them.
speaker4: alone again. what are you up to today?
speaker5: i'm doing some volunteer work.
speaker4: need any company?
speaker5: you? volunteer? i don't think so.
speaker4: i don't know? maybe i'd like it. i'm trying to change here. you could be supportive.
speaker5: okay.
speaker4: babe, you're looking at the next mother teresa.
speaker3: please. i need you. i don't know what to do. you're the only one i can talk to.

speaker1: did i ever tell you the time when my late husband sent me - 
speaker2: yes, you already did.
speaker1: i did? sebastian never takes his eyes off the paper.
speaker2: right after we played backgammon.
speaker1: we played backgammon?
speaker2: uh huh. you beat me three times.
speaker1: i did?
speaker2: yep. then i your daughter.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i said, do you want some water?
speaker1: oh... no thank you...
speaker2: come in.
speaker3: how we doing in here?
speaker1: i won three games of backgammon. sebastian smiles at annette, who smiles back.
speaker2: it's weird. i actually feel good about myself. can we do this again next week?
speaker4: oh please.
speaker2: what?
speaker4: "i actually feel good about myself?"
speaker2: i do.
speaker4: you must take me for a real
speaker2: i don't.
speaker4: you're going to tell me that you had a good time with the old lady.
speaker2: i did. we played three games of backgammon and... she throws him a look. sebastian alright. i was bored out of my mind. i hate doing charity.
speaker4: that's okay. it doesn't make you a bad person.
speaker2: yes it does.
speaker4: no, it doesn't. i'm happy you're being honest with me.
speaker2: i can't win with you.
speaker4: it's not about winning. you know what your problem is? you take yourself way too seriously.
speaker2: i do not.
speaker4: lighten up.
speaker2: i am lighten. can we drop this?
speaker4: fine.
speaker2: what are you doing? stop it, it's distracting.
speaker4: oh dear, are you actually laughing?
speaker2: no.
speaker4: no?
speaker2: stop that.
speaker4: there's hope for you, yet.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: it's kathryn.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: calm down. tell me what's wrong.
speaker1: something awful happened last night.
speaker2: what do you mean?!
speaker1: i... i don't think you want to know.
speaker2: cecile, you have to tell me.
speaker1: it involves your brother. he... took advantage of me.
speaker2: does your mother know?
speaker1: if she knew, she'd kill me. it happened at your house last night.
speaker2: why didn't you do something?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: so, let me get this straight. you came over to our house late last night and he forced on you.
speaker1: well... not exactly.
speaker2: he made you give him a blow job.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: well what then?
speaker1: if that's what you call it.
speaker2: cecile, i think you're going to have a hard time crying if that's all he did.
speaker1: what do i do then?
speaker2: well did you like it?
speaker1: well... i don't know - it was weird. at first it felt icky, then it felt kind of okay. then, i started getting really hot and then i started shaking and then like, i don't t know... it felt like an explosion, but a good one.
speaker2: cecile, you had an orgasm.
speaker1: i did?
speaker2: i'm so proud of you. you're becoming a woman.
speaker1: i am?
speaker2: now listen. now that you're on your way, it would be stupid of you to stop. think of sebastian as a tutor. let him instruct you.
speaker1: i don't love him. i love ronald.
speaker2: so? don't you want to make ronald a happy pappy? practice makes perfect, cecile. my advice is to sleep with as many people as possible.
speaker1: but that would make me a slut. wouldn't it?
speaker2: cecile, everybody does it. it's just that nobody talks about it.
speaker1: it's like a secret society.
speaker2: that's one way of looking at it.
speaker1: cool.

speaker1: i just had a nice chat with cecile. i don't think she'll be giving you anymore problems. 
speaker2: yippy.
speaker1: who are you spying on?
speaker2: take a look for yourself.
speaker1: that her?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: she reeks of laura ashley. oh, she's crying. wittle baby's upset by the big bad book.
speaker2: shut up.
speaker1: what's your problem?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: she's really getting to you, isn't she?
speaker2: if you must know, yes. i don't know what to do. i can't stand that holier than thou and yet, i'm completely infatuated with her. she made me laugh.
speaker1: and that's why you're losing your bet?
speaker2: i'm not losing the bet. it's just taking longer than i expected.
speaker1: do you mind if i take my new porsche for a ride?
speaker2: kathryn, the only thing you're going to be riding is me. now if you'll excuse me, i have some work to do.

speaker1: am i bothering you? 
speaker2: not at all. have a seat.
speaker1: don't tell me you finished the fountainhead already? she nods. he points to her book. sebastian great book. what's the guy's name, florentino...
speaker2: florentino ariza.
speaker1: my friend monsieur philipe is a friend of florentino.
speaker2: who's monsieur philipe?
speaker1: you don't know monsieur philipe? sebastian takes out a sock puppet. sebastian bonjour mademoiselle.
speaker2: bonjour monsieur philipe.
speaker1: you are very pretty. i would like to kiss you. the puppet kisses her on the cheek. sebastian oooo, that felt good.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: i am too.
speaker1: you know what? i don't take it back.
speaker2: why are you doing this?
speaker1: because i'm in love with you.
speaker2: i thought you said we were going to be friends.
speaker1: i can't handle it. i can't keep my feelings bottled up like you. can you honestly tell me that you feel nothing for me? ... tell me!
speaker2: i have feelings for you.
speaker1: then what's wrong? i love you annette. it's not like you have a husband, unless your married to
speaker2: that's not fair.
speaker1: why can't we be together?
speaker2: you really want to know?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: it's because i don't trust myself with you. i took a vow and because of you i'm tempted to break it. don't destroy that for me. please.

speaker1: am i suppose to be this sore? 
speaker2: for the first time, yes. it'll pass.
speaker1: i like it better when i'm on top.
speaker2: cecile. this is what i like to call quiet time. this is time when we reflect on what we've done.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: you think?
speaker1: is it me?
speaker2: no, you were fine.
speaker1: it's that girl, annette.
speaker2: i'm getting out of here.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: i'm taking a shower.
speaker1: need any company?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: want a blow job?
speaker2: good night cecile.
speaker1: prude.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: i just came to say goodbye.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: back to the city. i may take off to europe for the rest of the summer. i just can't handle it around here.
speaker1: i think that's for the best.
speaker2: good for you.
speaker1: sebastian, please. i don't want us to end on bad terms.
speaker2: well, i'm afraid you don't have a choice in the matter. you make me sick. you're a hypocrite and i don't associate with hypocrites.
speaker1: how am i a hypocrite?
speaker2: oh please annette. you spend all your time preaching about waiting for love. well here it is. right in front of you, but you're going to turn your back on it. i'm sorry that we're not at the age where we can get married. if we were, i'd propose, but that's not going to happen. so i guess we're just i'll move on, but you... you're going to have to live with yourself knowing you've turned your back on love. and that makes you a hypocrite. sebastian heads to the door. sebastian have a nice life.
speaker1: please don't go.
speaker2: get off me.
speaker1: i... i want you.
speaker2: i'm sorry, i can't.
speaker2: 

speaker1: morning! 
speaker2: morning.
speaker1: so? how'd it go last night?
speaker2: with who?
speaker1: well i know how it went with cecile. she won't shut up about it. how'd it go with mrs. jesus?
speaker2: if your asking if i nailed her the answer is no.
speaker1: she shot you down.
speaker2: exactly the opposite.
speaker1: so what went wrong?
speaker2: i don't know. she was lying on the bed, ready to do it, but i-- i don't, i was... i just didn't feel right about it.
speaker1: you're telling me you had the chance to her and you didn't. are you a chump.
speaker2: a momentary lapse of judgment, soon to be rectified.
speaker1: if you're heading towards her room, you won't find her.
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: you don't know? she left thirty minutes ago.
speaker2: where'd she go?
speaker1: she wouldn't say. she apologized to your aunt and told her she was going to stay with some friends. you blew it, sebastian. that girl has come to her senses and she will never go near you again.
speaker2: we'll see about that.

speaker1: is she with you? 
speaker2: who is this?
speaker1: sebastian, you faggot. is she with you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: where is she?!
speaker2: i don't know. why don't you leave her alone.
speaker1: mcconnell, i'm gonna out your in two seconds if you don't tell me where she is.
speaker2: i told you i don't know.
speaker1: one.
speaker2: alright. she's staying with some friends of her parents. the o'sheas. she caught the train twenty minutes ago into grand central.
speaker1: grand central. you better not be with me cause it's your on the line. sebastian clicks off his cell phone. sebastian motherfucker.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi. she walks over to him and kisses him. sebastian you alright?
speaker1: i'm fine. i have to get going to my friends' house. was it --
speaker2: it was perfect.

speaker1: you work way to hard. here. take the day off. merry christmas. 
speaker2: slower.
speaker2: a little to the left. look, pretend like you're writing the alphabet. a... b... mmm, stay on b.
speaker2: one second.
speaker2: come in.

speaker1: bad time? 
speaker2: kind of.
speaker1: well, you obviously wanted me to witness your little adventure or else you wouldn't have invited me in. sebastian walks toward the closet. sebastian who is our little friend so inexperienced that you have to resort to the alphabet game?
speaker3: it's not what it seems like.
speaker1: say hi to cecile.
speaker2: call me. sebastian throws kathryn a look. kathryn you can't have all the fun. sebastian sits on the bed. kathryn you seem to be in a good mood.
speaker1: i am.
speaker2: you didn't?
speaker1: oh yes.
speaker2: tell me all the details.
speaker1: it was... fantastic.
speaker2: oh come on. for her first time?
speaker1: i know. that's the amazing part of it. i mean, it wasn't like cirque du soleil acrobatics, just standard missionary stuff, but it was... ah forget it. i'm going to sound like a hallmark card.
speaker2: no, tell me.
speaker1: it was... it was like the emotional part outweighed the physical part.
speaker2: wow. so you made love. ooo, i hear the birds chirping.
speaker1: mock, mock, mock.
speaker2: so i assume you've come here to make some arrangements.
speaker1: some other time.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i'm not in the mood.
speaker2: and that's why you're leaving?
speaker1: it clearly is why.
speaker2: i want to
speaker1: and i don't.
speaker1: i'll pick you up in an hour. i love you too.
speaker2: oh my you're completely p-whipped.
speaker1: no, i'm not.
speaker2: p-whipped, p-whipped.
speaker1: what's wrong with you? why are you acting this way?
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's just upsetting. you're in love with her. you don't love me anymore.
speaker1: oh come on, kathryn, it was just a contest.
speaker2: at first it was, but now it's become something bigger.
speaker1: kathryn, you know i love you. i've always loved you.
speaker2: not anymore you don't. it's obvious.
speaker1: i can't believe you're reacting this way. you're just saying this because you lost the bet.
speaker2: is that what you think?
speaker1: that's not fair. you're taking all the fun out of it.
speaker2: then do me a favor and get rid of her. if not for me, then do it for you. look at yourself. you're a joke. she's turned you into jelly. what do you want to be, one of those losers who walk down the halls holding hands and smiling. people used to respect you. they feared you and now you're going to throw that all away. sebastian stares at her, lost in thought. kathryn poor sebastian. he used to be cool, but now he's just another love-struck faggot. one of the many.

speaker1: why so nervous? 
speaker2: i've never done this before.
speaker1: how have you dumped girls in the past?
speaker2: screening calls. any suggestions?
speaker1: i knew this guy last summer in the hamptons. he and his girlfriend at the time were madly in love with each other. but she had this huge weight problem. his friends taunted him mercilessly about it. you know, "how do you breathe when she sits on your face?" "it's embarrassing for you to be seen with her." finally he couldn't take it anymore and decided to dump her. she flipped and he went on the defensive. i distinctly remember him saying the same thing over and over again. "i'm completely up." "i'm completely up." "i'm completely up." poor fatty never had a chance.

speaker1: hi. is annette at home? 
speaker2: you must be sebastian. i've heard such nice things about you. he smiles. mrs. o'shea annette. come on in.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: well, i'm going to head back to the kitchen. you two have fun.
speaker1: would you like a tour?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: and this is my room.
speaker2: this isn't working out for me anymore.
speaker1: yeah, me neither.
speaker2: it's not you, it's me. i'm completely up.
speaker1: what are you saying?
speaker2: why aren't you understanding?
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: i know. i wish i felt the same. unfortunately, i feel nothing. i think it was just the conquest. sorry, i'm completely up.
speaker1: why are you trying to hurt me?
speaker2: i'm just being honest. i just wanted to see what you were like in bed.
speaker1: you don't know how to love.
speaker2: you don't even know me. the fact of the matter is there is some one i love. she's smarter, prettier... you don't even compare to her. the only reason i am here is because she wants us to be exclusive.
speaker1: but you knew this was important to me.
speaker2: what, your virginity? well that's over now.
speaker1: please go.
speaker2: sorry. i'm completely up.

speaker1:  
speaker1: a little melodramatic, don't you think.
speaker2: i have a flair for drama.
speaker1: mind if i ask what you're doing in my room?
speaker2: you wanted an answer to your question.
speaker1: annette?
speaker2: devastated beyond repair. i doubt she'll ever trust a man again.
speaker1: well done.
speaker2: i thought we should celebrate.
speaker1: i'd love to, but unfortunately i'm expecting some company.
speaker2: ronald?
speaker1: not that it's any of your business but yes.
speaker2: from ronald. kathryn takes the letter. sebastian i haven't had a chance to read it, but i'm sure it goes something like "yahdah yahdah yahdah you mean a lot to me. yahdah yahdah yahdah i hope we can be friends. etcetera, etcetera, etcetera." you see, i expected your sort of so i took the liberty of phoning ronald and cecile. right now they're having a little get together in my love shack at the grand central hyatt. i'm so sorry he chose cecile over you, but i promised him i would see you through your crisis.
speaker1: well done.
speaker2: thank you. now, where were we? pop goes the champagne cork. sebastian oh yeah, the celebration.
speaker1: to my triumph, of course.
speaker2: not my choice of toast, but it's your call. to your triumph over annette. kathryn giggles. sebastian what's so funny?
speaker1: silly rabbit. my triumph isn't over her. it's over you.
speaker2: come again?
speaker1: you were very much in love with her and you're still in love with her. but it amused me to make you ashamed of it. you gave up on the first person you ever loved because i called you names. don't get me wrong, i'm flattered that you chose me over her, but please understand, i never loved you, sebastian. you're just a toy. a little toy i play with. and now you've completely blown it with her. i think that's the saddest thing i've ever heard. cheers.
speaker2: in any event, you still owe me my reward.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but unfortunately i don't losers. sebastian slaps her across the face. kathryn you
speaker2: calm down.
speaker1: get off me!
speaker2: will you calm down?
speaker1: fine! get off me!
speaker2: i'm very sorry about that. i apologize.
speaker1: i accept. now get out.
speaker2: get out? we had an arrangement.
speaker1: didn't you hear what i said?
speaker2: i don't care what you said, we had an agreement. you've slept with half of the borough so don't tell me you're being choosy.
speaker1: get out!
speaker2: i'm giving you to the count of three to plop your down on the bed.
speaker1: and if i don't?
speaker2: then i will consider it a declaration of war. one. two... three.
speaker1: i think you have your answer.
speaker2: war it is.
speaker2: it's desperate that i talk to her.
speaker3: i've already told you, she's not home.
speaker2: well please leave a message that i called.
speaker3: i'll do that.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i need to talk to annette.
speaker1: she's not here.
speaker2: do you know where she is?
speaker1: she's out.
speaker2: do you know when she'll be back?
speaker1: later. listen, we're entertaining some guests so -
speaker2: annette! annette!
speaker1: young man, i already told you she's not here.
speaker2: fine. could you please see that she gets this.
speaker1: i'll do that.
speaker2: it's really important.
speaker1: i understand. good night.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: ronald?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: it's kathryn.
speaker1: hi kathryn. is everything okay?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: it's sebastian. he's out of his mind.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i think he's high on drugs. he hit me, then took off. i'm afraid to be alone.
speaker1: i'll be right there.

speaker1: dear annette. thank you for reading this letter. i don't know what i can possibly say to rectify the harm i have caused you. for once in my life i'm at a loss for words. 
speaker1: the truth of the matter is that being with you was the only time i have ever been happy. my whole life has been a joke. i prided myself on taking joy in others' misery.

speaker1: well, it finally backfired. i succeeded in hurting the first person i loved. i wish more than anything i could take it back, but i guess that's not possible. 
speaker1: enclosed is my most prized possession... my journal. for a long time i considered it my trophy. a sordid collection of my conquests. if you really want to know the truth, then please read it. no more lies.

speaker1: and when i confronted him about his affair with cecile he told me it was none of my business. then when i said "well what about ronald," he said you were nothing more than a stupid... the n word and that you deserved what you got... 
speaker2: and this happened before you and i hooked up?
speaker1: it's been going on for a while. then he called me a disgrace to our family and that's when he hit me.
speaker2: racist piece of
speaker1: i'd be careful if i were you. knows what he's up to.
speaker2: he doesn't scare me. i'll kick his in.
speaker1: will you stay here for the night? you can leave in the morning. that's when my parents get back and --
speaker2: don't worry about it. i'll stay.
speaker1: thanks ronald. you're a good friend.

speaker1: what time is it? 
speaker2: eight o'clock. you got to go.
speaker1: did she show up?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: do you mind if i check upstairs?
speaker2: i can't have you do that, nor can i have you hanging around the lobby all day.
speaker1: i understand. thanks for letting me crash here.
speaker2: don't worry about it.

speaker1: son of a 
speaker2: hey ronald.
speaker1: it seems that you and i have some talking to do.
speaker2: can we do it later. i've had a really bad night and - ronald shoves sebastian. sebastian what's your problem?
speaker1: where the do you come off hitting women?
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: kathryn. did you hit her?
speaker2: kathryn? oh christ, she got to you too?
speaker1: did you hit her?
speaker2: ronald, you don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: don't know what i'm talking about? i know that you cecile. sebastian says nothing. ronald it's true, isn't it?
speaker2: ronald, i'm sorry.
speaker1: you bastard!
speaker2: you.
speaker3: sebastian!
speaker2: i'm okay. i'm okay.
speaker3: get an ambulance!
speaker2: holy annette you're gonna be fine.
speaker2: i'm sorry. annette it's alright.
speaker2: i'm okay. everything's good.

speaker1: sad, sad, sad. to think of the opportunities that boy had. this should be a lesson to us all that our children need constant supervision. 
speaker1: it's all about quality time.

speaker1: he loved that view. 
speaker2: i can see why.
speaker1: i'm kathryn.
speaker2: annette harrison.
speaker1: have we met?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: did you know sebastian well?
speaker2: you might say that.
speaker1: now i remember. annette harrison. your father's the new headmaster at oakwood.
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: i'm sure you're going to love it there.
speaker1: are you okay?
speaker2: i'll be fine.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: look, i know this sounds corny, but whenever i feel like i can't go on i... turn to and he helps me through the problem. call me an anachronism, but -
speaker2: oh cut the kathryn.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: you heard me.
speaker1: who the do you think you are coming into my house and saying those things to me. my brother is dead, have some respect.
speaker2: kathryn, i know all about you and sebastian.
speaker1: sebastian was a pathological liar. i wouldn't believe a word he -
speaker2: i have his journal.
speaker1: you what?
speaker2: his journal. he sent it to me the day before he died. everything about you is in it. the blow jobs, the hand jobs, the menages, your bout with bulimia, the affair you had with your guidance counselor and how he gave you... eww. let's see, then there's your coke problem... you still keep it in your crucifix, don't you? it's all in there.
speaker1: you didn't show it to anybody?
speaker2: actually, i was planning on running down to kinkos. do you think you could give me ride?
speaker1: you can't do this to me. it could ruin me.
speaker2: i know.

