speaker1: hello, mrs. macgruder, have you ever seen so many gulls? 
speaker2: hello, miss daniels.
speaker1: what do you suppose it is?

speaker1: i was hoping you'd be a little late, miss daniels. you see, he hasn't arrived yet. 
speaker2: you said three o'clock.
speaker1: i know. oh, i know. i've been calling all morning. oh, you have no idea. miss daniels, they're so difficult to get, really they are. we get them from india, you know, when they're just little chicks, and then we have to...
speaker2: well, this one won't be a chick, will he?
speaker1: certainly not. oh, no. certainly not. this will be a full grown myna bird. full grown.
speaker2: and he'll talk?
speaker1: well, yes, he'll talk. well, no, no. you'll have to teach him to talk.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: yes. oh my, i suppose i should call them again. they said three o'clock. maybe it's the traffic. i'll call. would you mind waiting?
speaker2: i think maybe you'd better deliver him. let me give you my address.
speaker1: oh. oh, well, all right.
speaker1: i'm sure they're on the way, though. could i just call?
speaker2: well, all right, but...
speaker1: hello, this is betty macgruder at davidson's. it's past three, you know. well, how long do you think...? all right, would you check it please? yes, i'll wait.

speaker1: i wonder if you could help me. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i said i wonder if you could help me.

speaker1: lovebirds. 
speaker2: lovebirds, sir?
speaker1: yes. i understand there are different varieties, it that true?
speaker2: well... yes, sir, there are.
speaker1: these are for my sister... her birthday you see. as she'll be eleven and... well, frankly, i wouldn't want a pair of birds that were too demonstrative.
speaker2: i understand completely, sir.
speaker1: as the same time, i wouldn't want birds that were aloof, either.
speaker2: no, of course not.
speaker1: do you have a pair that are just friendly?
speaker2: i think so, sir. now then, let me see.
speaker1: aren't these lovebirds?
speaker2: no, sir, those are... redbirds.
speaker1: the sign says strawberry finches.
speaker2: yes, we call them that too. ahhh, here we are, lovebirds...
speaker1: those are canaries, miss. doesn't this make you feel awful?
speaker2: doesn't what make me...?
speaker1: all these innocent little creatures caged up like this?
speaker2: well, we can't just let them fly around the shop, you know.
speaker1: i suppose not. is there an ornithological reason for keeping them in separate cages?
speaker2: oh, certainly. it's to protect the species.
speaker1: i imagine that's very important. especially during the moulting season.
speaker2: yes, that's a particularly dangerous time.
speaker1: are they moulting now?
speaker2: some of them are.
speaker1: how can you tell?
speaker2: well... they get a sort of hangdog expression.

speaker1: yes, i see. about those lovebirds, miss... 
speaker2: are you sure you wouldn't like to see a canary instead? we have some very nice canaries this week.
speaker1: all right. she smiles back.
speaker1: all right, may i see one, please?

speaker1: what is it? oh! oh my, one of the birds is loose! 
speaker2: shhh! shhhh!
speaker3: the canary in his hand.
speaker4: there we are!
speaker1: oh, good! oh, wonderful.

speaker1: back into your gilded cage, melanie daniels. 
speaker2: startled.
speaker3: what did you say?

speaker1: i was merely drawing a parallel, miss daniels. 
speaker2: but how... how do you know my name?
speaker1: a little birdie told me. good day, miss daniels. madam.
speaker2: hey, wait a minute!
speaker2: i don't know you.
speaker1: ahhh, but i know you.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: we met in court.
speaker2: we never met in court or anyplace else.
speaker1: that's true. i'll rephrase it. i saw you in court.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: do you remember one of your practical jokes that resulted in the smashing of a plate glass window?
speaker2: i didn't break that window!
speaker1: no, but your little prank did. the judge should have put you behind bars!
speaker2: what are you? a policeman?
speaker1: i simply believe in the law, miss daniels, and i'm not too keen on practical jokers.
speaker2: what do you call your lovebird story if not a practical...
speaker1: ahhh, but i really do want those birds.
speaker2: you knew i didn't work here. you deliberately...
speaker1: right. i recognized you when i came in. i thought you might like to know what it felt like to be on the other end of a gag. what do you think of that, miss daniels?
speaker2: i think you're a louse.
speaker1: i am. good day. madam.
speaker2: and i'm glad you didn't get your lovebirds!
speaker1: i'll find something else. see you in court some day.
speaker2: that... that... who was that?
speaker3: i have no idea.

speaker1: have you got a pencil? 
speaker2: what? oh, yes, certainly.
speaker2: they said the myna bird would be here later this afternoon. if you'd care to come back...
speaker1: no, you'd better send him. may i use your phone?
speaker2: yes, certainly.
speaker1: do you have any lovebirds?
speaker2: no, not in the shop. but i can order them for you.
speaker1: how soon?
speaker2: well... well, how soon would you want them?
speaker1: immediately. is this the daily news? melanie daniels. would you get me the city desk, please?
speaker2: i might be able to have them by tomorrow morning. would that be all right?
speaker1: that would be just fine. hello, charlie, this is melanie. i want you to do a favor for me. no, this is a small one. pressure you? why, charlie darling, would i try to pressure you? will you call the department of motor vehicles for me and find out who owns this license plate? dkq dash one seven six. yes, a california plate. no, i'll stop up there in a little while. is daddy in his office? oh. no, no, i don't want to break in on a meeting. just tell him i'll see him later. thank you, charlie.

speaker1: running down the list of names slowly. it stops. 
speaker2: her finger beside it.

speaker1: is that for mitch brenner? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: he's not home.
speaker2: that's all right.
speaker1: he won't be back until monday. i mean, if those birds are for him....
speaker2: monday?
speaker1: yes. i don't think you should leave them in the hall, do you?
speaker2: well, i...
speaker2: well, where did he go?
speaker1: bodega bay. he goes up there every weekend.
speaker2: bodega bay? where's that?
speaker1: up on the coast. about sixty miles north of here.
speaker2: sixty... oh.
speaker1: about an hour and a half on the freeway. or two if you take the coast highway.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: i'd hold the birds for him, but i'm going away myself. someone's got to feed them, i suppose.
speaker2: yes. yes, someone's got to feed them.
speaker1: i'm awfully sorry.

speaker1: car approaching bodega bay seen high up. 
speaker2: at the wheel, she glances out toward the bay.

speaker1: through the bars of the cage. 
speaker2: good morning.

speaker1: i wonder if you could help me. 
speaker2: try my best.
speaker1: i'm looking for a man named mitchell brenner.
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: do you know him?
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: where does he live?
speaker2: right here. bodega bay.
speaker1: yes, but where?
speaker2: right across the bay there.
speaker1: where?
speaker3: through the bars, exasperated.

speaker1: see where i'm pointing? 
speaker2: yes?

speaker1: see them two big trees across there? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: and the white house?
speaker2: that's where the brenners live.

speaker1: the brenners? mr. and mrs. brenner? 
speaker2: nope, just lydia and the two kids.
speaker1: the two kids?
speaker2: yep. mitch and the little girl.
speaker1: i see. how do i get down there?
speaker2: follow the road straight through town 'til it curves off on the left. that'll take you right around the bay to their front door.
speaker1: the front door. isn't there a back road i can take?
speaker2: nope. that's the road. straight through town, stay on your left, right around the bay to the front door.
speaker1: you see, i wanted to surprise them.
speaker2: mmmm.
speaker1: i didn't want to come right down the road, where they could see me.
speaker2: mmmm.
speaker1: it's a surprise, you see.
speaker2: mmmmmm. 'course, you could get yourself a boat, cut right across the bay with it. the brenners got a little dock there you could tie up at. if that's what you wanted to do.
speaker1: where would i get a boat?
speaker2: down at the dock by the tides restaurant. ever handled an outboard boat?
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: d'you want me to order one for you?
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: what name?
speaker1: daniels.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: i wonder if you could tell me... 
speaker2: yep?
speaker1: the little girl's name.
speaker2: the little brenner girl?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: alice, i think. harry, what's the little brenner girl's name?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: the little brenner girl.
speaker3: lois!
speaker2: it's alice, ain't it?
speaker3: no, it's lois!
speaker2: it's alice.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: well, i ain't positive, if that's what you mean.
speaker1: i need her exact name, you see.
speaker2: that case, i tell you what you do. you go straight through town 'til you see a little hotel on your left there. not the motel, that's the other end of town. this is the hotel. now you take a right turn there, you got that?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: near the top of the hill, you'll see the school and right behind it, the church. you head for the school. now just past the school, you'll see a little house with a red mail box. that's where annie hayworth lives, she's the school teacher. you ask her about the little brenner girl.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: yep. could save yourself a lot of trouble. her name's alice for sure.
speaker1: can i have the boat in about twenty minutes?
speaker1: how much for the phone calls?
speaker2: it's nothing.
speaker4: grinning, as she makes for the door and exits.

speaker1: waiting. she rings the bell again: 
speaker2: yes? who is it?
speaker3: me!
speaker2: who's me?

speaker1: miss hayworth? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i'm melanie daniels. i'm sorry to bother you, but...

speaker1: the man at the post office sent me. he said you'd know the name of the little brenner girl. 
speaker2: cathy?
speaker1: the one who lives in the white house across the bay?
speaker2: that's the one. cathy brenner.
speaker1: they seemed sure it was either alice or lois.
speaker2: which is why the mail in this town never gets delivered to the right place. did you want to see cathy about something?
speaker3: taking cigarette, hesitating.
speaker1: well... not exactly.
speaker4: studying her, thinking she understands.
speaker2: are you a friend of mitch's?
speaker1: no, not really.

speaker1: i've been wanting a cigarette for the past twenty minutes, but i couldn't convince myself to stop. this 'tilling of the soil' can get a little compulsive, you know. 
speaker2: it's a lovely garden.
speaker1: thank you. it gives me something to do with my spare time. there's a lot of spare time in bodega bay. did you plan on staying long?
speaker2: no. just a few hours.
speaker1: you're leaving after you see cathy?
speaker2: well... something like that. i'm sorry. i don't mean to sound so mysterious.
speaker1: actually, it's none of my business.
speaker1: i'd better get on my way. thank you very much.
speaker1: not at all.
speaker1: did you drive up from san francisco?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: it's a nice drive. is that where you met mitch?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i guess that's where everyone meets him.

speaker1: now you sound a bit mysterious, miss hayworth. 
speaker2: as annie leans over the seat.
speaker3: do i? no, i'm an open book, i'm afraid. or maybe a closed one. pretty. what are they?
speaker1: lovebirds.
speaker3: mmm. well, good luck, miss daniels.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: watching, biting her lip. 
speaker2: mitch reaching the barn and entering. silence.
speaker3: watching, waiting.
speaker2: not a sign of life.

speaker1: as she watches mitch. 
speaker2: as mitch runs back into the house.
speaker1: peering over stern of the boat.

speaker1: in the boat. 
speaker2: that was the damndest thing i ever saw.
speaker3: what made it...
speaker2: it deliberately came down at you -- you're bleeding...

speaker1: concerned. 
speaker2: come on, let's take care of that.

speaker1: what happened, mitch? 
speaker2: a gull hit her.
speaker1: a what?

speaker1: mitch and melanie coming over to it. 
speaker2: deke, have you got a first aid kit back there?
speaker3: what happened?
speaker2: young woman cut herself.
speaker3: shall i call the doctor?
speaker2: i don't think it's that serious. you want to sit up here?
speaker3: you cut yourself outside, miss?
speaker2: stop worrying, deke. she was in a boat.
speaker3: i had a man trip and fall in the parking lot once, sued me before i could bat an eyelash.
speaker2: i don't think miss daniels is going to sue anybody.
speaker3: well, you're the lawyer.
speaker4: as he unscrews cap from bottle of peroxide.
speaker5: what's that?
speaker2: just some peroxide. i want to clean out the cut.
speaker5: so you're a lawyer.
speaker2: that's right. what are you doing in bodega bay?
speaker5: do you practice here?
speaker2: no, san francisco. what are you...?
speaker5: what kind of law?
speaker2: criminal.
speaker5: is that why you'd like to see everyone behind bars?
speaker2: not everyone, miss daniels.
speaker5: only violators and practical jokers.
speaker5: that's right.
speaker5: ouch!
speaker2: i'm sorry. what are you doing up here?
speaker5: didn't you see the lovebirds?
speaker2: you came all the way up here to bring me those birds?
speaker5: to bring your sister those birds. you said it was her birthday. besides, i was coming up anyway.
speaker2: what for?
speaker5: to see a friend of mine. will you please be careful?
speaker2: i'm sorry. who's your friend?
speaker5: why...
speaker2: yes?
speaker5: annie. annie hayworth.
speaker2: well, well, small world. annie hayworth.
speaker5: yes.
speaker2: how do you know annie?
speaker5: we... we went to school together. college.
speaker2: did you! imagine that! how long will you be staying?
speaker5: just a few... just a day or two... the weekend.
speaker2: i think we'll have to shave the hair. deke, have you got a razor?
speaker5: oh, no you don't!
speaker2: it's still bleeding a little. here, let me put this on.
speaker2: bend your head down. this little band-aid won't show.
speaker2: so you came up to see annie, huh?
speaker5: yes.
speaker2: i don't believe you. i think you came up to see me.
speaker5: why would i want to see you, of all people?
speaker2: i don't know. but it seems to me you must have gone to a lot of trouble to find out who i was, and where i lived and...
speaker5: it was no trouble at all. i simply called my father's paper. besides, i was coming up here anyway, i already told you...
speaker2: you like me, huh?
speaker5: i loathe you. you have no manners. and you're arrogant and conceited and... i wrote you a letter about it, in fact, but i tore it up.
speaker2: what did it say?
speaker5: none of your business. am i still bleeding?
speaker2: can't see a thing.
speaker5: i can't say i like your seagulls much, either. i come all the way up here to...
speaker2: but you were coming up anyway, remember?
speaker5: i was! and all i get for my pains is a... a... a hole in the head!
speaker2: right next to the one you already had.
speaker5: look, mr. brenner...
speaker6: mitch?

speaker1: i thought i saw your car. what are you doing in town? 
speaker2: i had to acknowledge a delivery. mother, i'd like you to meet...
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: melanie daniels. melanie, my mother.

speaker1: a delivery, mother. miss daniels brought some birds from san francisco. 
speaker2: oh. i see.
speaker1: for cathy. for her birthday. by the way, where is she?
speaker2: across at brinkmeyer's.
speaker1: miss daniels is staying for the weekend. in fact, i've already invited her to dinner tonight.

speaker1: after all, you did go to the trouble of bringing up those birds. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i couldn't possibly...

speaker1: you did say birds? 
speaker2: yes, lovebirds. we couldn't let you...
speaker1: lovebirds, i see.
speaker2: ...get away without thanking you in some small way. after all, you haven't even met cathy and you are staying for the weekend...
speaker3: yes, but...
speaker2: you are, aren't you?
speaker3: certainly, but...
speaker2: then it's settled. what time is dinner, mother?
speaker1: seven o'clock, same as usual.
speaker2: i'll pick you up, miss daniels. where are you staying?
speaker3: with... with annie, of course.
speaker2: of course, how stupid of me. a quarter to seven, will that be all right?
speaker3: annie... annie may have made other plans. i'll have to see. besides, i can find my own way.
speaker2: you're sure now? you won't hire a boat or anything?
speaker3: i'm sure.
speaker2: seven o'clock then.
speaker3: maybe.
speaker4: grinning.
speaker2: we'll be waiting. how's your head now?
speaker5: lydia looks at mitch inquiringly.
speaker3: it's nothing, mrs. brenner. a gull hit me, that's all.

speaker1: yes, i did. 
speaker1: i was wondering...
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: that sign. do you think i could have the room for a single night?
speaker2: well, i'd really hope to rent it for...
speaker1: i would appreciate it. i've tried everywhere in town, and they're all full.
speaker2: sure. you can have it. where's your bag? in the car?
speaker2: it's utilitarian, i'll say that for it.
speaker1: i just picked up some things for the night at the general store. you see, i hadn't planned on spending much time here.
speaker2: yes, i know. did something unexpected crop up?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: why don't you come in then? i was just about to mix a martini.

speaker1: hi! 
speaker1: miss daniels?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: they're beautiful! they're just what i wanted! is there a man and a woman? i can't tell which is which.
speaker2: well, i suppose...

speaker1: hi. annie had no plans, huh? i'm glad you came. are you hungry? 
speaker2: famished.
speaker1: dinner's just about ready. we were out back looking at the chickens. something seems to be wrong with them.
speaker3: there's nothing wrong with those chickens, mitch. i'm going to call fred brinkmeyer right now.
speaker1: i don't know what good that'll do. chickens won't eat.

speaker1: he sold the feed to me, didn't he? 
speaker2: caviat emptor, mother. let the buyer beware.
speaker1: whose side are you on?
speaker2: i'm simply quoting the law.
speaker1: never mind the law. cathy, you can start serving the soup.

speaker1: this won't take a minute, miss dan... hello, fred? this is lydia brenner. i didn't interrupt your dinner, did 
speaker2: fred, that feed you sold me is no good. the chicken feed. the three bags i brought.
speaker3: holding the telephone.
speaker1: well, it's just no good. the chickens won't eat it. they're always hungry, fred. i opened one of the sacks when i got home, and i poured it out for them, and they wouldn't touch it. now you know chickens as well as i do, and when they won't eat, there's just something wrong with what they're being fed, that's all. no, they're not fussy chickens. who? what's he got to do with it? fred, i don't care how much feed you sold him. my chickens... he did? dan fawcett? this afternoon? well, that only proves what i'm saying. the feed you sold us is... oh. oh, i see. uh-huh. uh-huh. uh- huh. maybe i ought to go over to see him. you don't think there's something going around, do you? no, never. no, fred, they don't seem sick at all. they just won't eat. mmmm. mmmmm. well, i'll try to get over to dan's farm. maybe he'll... mmmmm... mmmmm... all right, fred, thanks.

speaker1: he got a call from dan fawcett a little while ago. his chickens won't eat, either. 
speaker2: it's what you said, mom. mr. brinkmeyer's feed is no good.
speaker1: no, cathy. he sold mr. fawcett a different brand. you don't think they're getting sick, do you, mitch?
speaker3: her eyes troubled as she picks up her napkin.

speaker1: i still don't understand how you knew i wanted lovebirds. 
speaker2: your brother told me.
speaker3: then you knew mitch in san francisco, is that right?
speaker2: no, not exactly.
speaker1: mitch knows lots of people in san francisco. of course, they're mostly hoods.
speaker3: cathy!
speaker1: well, mom, he's the first to admit it. he spends half his day in the detention cells at the hall of justice.
speaker3: in a democracy, cathy, everyone is entitled to a fair trial. your brother's practice...
speaker1: mom, please, i know all the democracy jazz. they're still hoods. he's got a client now who shot his wife in the head six times. six times, can you imagine it? i mean, even twice would be overdoing it, don't you think?
speaker2: why did he shoot her?
speaker4: he was watching a ball game on television.
speaker2: what?
speaker4: his wife changed the channel.

speaker1: is smoking fun? 
speaker2: oh, i suppose so.
speaker1: could i have a puff?
speaker2: i don't think your mother would like that.
speaker1: just a little one.

speaker1: why, it's just like air, isn't it? when i grow up, i'm gonna smoke like a chimney! i'll be eleven tomorrow, you know. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: are you coming to my party?
speaker2: i don't think so. i have to get back to san francisco.
speaker1: don't you like us?
speaker2: darling, of course i do!
speaker1: don't you like bodega bay?
speaker2: i don't know yet.
speaker1: mitch likes it very much. he comes up every weekend, you know, even though he has his own apartment in the city. he says san francisco is just an ant hill at the foot of a bridge.
speaker2: i guess it does get a little hectic at times.
speaker1: if you do decide to come, don't say i told you about it. it's supposed to be a surprise party.
speaker1: you see, they've got this whole complicated thing figured out where i'm going over to michele's for the afternoon, and michele's mother is going to say she has a headache and would i mind very much if she took me home. then, when we get back here, all of the kids'll jump out! won't you come? won't you please come?
speaker3: shaking her head, glancing toward the kitchen.
speaker2: i don't think so, cathy.

speaker1: she's a charming girl, isn't she, mitch? 
speaker2: yes, very.
speaker1: and certainly pretty.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: how long have you known her?
speaker2: i told you. we met yesterday.
speaker1: in a bird shop.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: she was selling birds.
speaker2: no. i only led her into believing i believed she was... mother, it's really very complicated.
speaker1: but she did buy the lovebirds and then brought them all the way...
speaker2: mother, where did you go to law school?
speaker1: forgive me. i suppose i'm just naturally curious about a girl like that. she's very rich, isn't she?
speaker2: i suppose so. her father owns a big newspaper in san francisco.
speaker1: you'd think he could manage to keep her name out of print. she's always mentioned in the columns, mitch.
speaker2: i know, mother.
speaker1: she is the one who jumped into that fountain in rome last summer, isn't she?
speaker2: yes, mother.
speaker1: perhaps i'm old-fashioned. i know it was supposed to be very warm there, mitch, but... well... actually... well, the newspaper said she was naked.
speaker2: i know, mother.
speaker1: it's none of my business, of course, but when you bring a girl like that to...
speaker2: mother?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i think i can handle melanie daniels by myself.
speaker1: well... so long as you know what you want, mitch.
speaker2: i know exactly what i want, mother.

speaker1: you'll be able to find your way back, won't you? 
speaker2: oh, yes.
speaker2: will i be seeing you again?
speaker2: san francisco's a long way from here.
speaker1: i'm in san francisco five days a week. with a lot of time on my hands. i'd like to see you. maybe we could go swimming or something. mother tells me you like to swim.
speaker2: how does mother know what i like to do?
speaker1: i guess she and i read the same gossip columns.
speaker2: oh. that. rome.
speaker1: mmmm. i like to swim. we might get along very...
speaker2: in case you're interested, i was pushed into that fountain.
speaker2: without any clothes on?
speaker2: with all my clothes on! the newspaper that ran the story happens to be a rival of my father's paper. anything they said...
speaker1: you were just a poor, innocent victim of circumstance, huh?
speaker2: i'm neither poor nor innocent, but the truth of that particular...
speaker1: the truth is you were running around with a pretty wild crowd...
speaker2: yes, but...
speaker1: ...who didn't much care for propriety or convention or...
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: ...the opinions of others, and you went right along with them, isn't that the truth?
speaker2: yes, that's the truth. but i was pushed into that fountain, and that's the truth, too.
speaker1: sure. do you really know annie hayworth?
speaker2: no. at least, i didn't until i came up here.
speaker1: so you didn't go to school together.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and you didn't come up here to see her.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you were lying.
speaker2: yes, i was lying.
speaker1: did you really write a letter to me? or was that a lie, too?
speaker2: i wrote the letter.
speaker1: what did it say?
speaker2: it said, "dear mr. brenner, i think you need those lovebirds, after all. they may help your personality." that's what it said.
speaker1: but you tore it up.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because it seemed stupid and foolish.
speaker1: like jumping into a fountain in rome!
speaker2: i told you what happened in rome!
speaker1: do you expect me to believe...?
speaker2: i don't give a what you believe!
speaker1: i'd still like to see you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i think it could be fun.
speaker3: pulling the door shut.
speaker2: that might have been good enough in rome last summer. but it's not good enough now.

speaker1: his attention caught by the poles and wires. 
speaker2: hundreds of birds sitting on them.

speaker1: miss daniels? is that you? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: hi. is something wrong? is that cut beginning to bother you?
speaker2: no, it's not the cut that's bothering me.
speaker1: would you like some brandy?
speaker2: if you have some, i'd...
speaker1: i'll get it, sit down, miss daniels. do you want a sweater or something? a quilt?
speaker2: no, thank you. won't you call me melanie?
speaker1: all right.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: it gets a little chilly here at night sometimes. especially if you're over near the bay.
speaker1: well, how'd your evening go?
speaker1: did you meet lydia?
speaker1: or would you rather i changed the subject?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: how do you like our little hamlet?
speaker2: i despise it.
speaker1: well, i don't suppose it offers much to the casual visitor. unless you're thrilled by a collection of shacks on a hillside. it takes a while to get used to.
speaker2: where are you from originally, annie?
speaker1: san francisco.
speaker2: how'd you happen to come here?
speaker1: oh, someone invited me up for the weekend a long time ago.
speaker1: look, i see no reason for being coy about this. it was mitch brenner.
speaker1: i guess you knew that, anyway.
speaker2: i suspected as much.
speaker1: you needn't worry. it's over and done with. a long time ago.
speaker2: annie -- there's nothing between mitch and me.
speaker1: isn't there? maybe there isn't. maybe there's never anything between mitch and any girl.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i think i'll have some of that, too. i was seeing quite a lot of him in san francisco, you know. and then, one weekend, he asked me up to meet lydia.
speaker2: when was this?
speaker1: four years ago. of course, that was shortly after his father died. things may be different now.
speaker2: different?
speaker1: with lydia. did she seem a trifle distant?
speaker2: a trifle.
speaker1: then maybe it isn't different at all. you know, her attitude nearly drove me crazy. i simply couldn't understand it.
speaker1: when i got back to san francisco i spent days trying to figure out just what i'd done to displease her.
speaker2: and what had you done?
speaker1: nothing! i simply existed. so what was the answer? a jealous woman, right? a clinging possessive mother. wrong. with all due respect to oedipus, i don't think that was the case at all.
speaker2: then what was it?
speaker1: lydia liked me, you see. that was the strange part of it. in fact, now that i'm no longer a threat, we're very good friends.
speaker2: then why did she object to you?
speaker1: because she was afraid.
speaker2: afraid you'd take mitch?
speaker1: afraid i'd give mitch.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: afraid of any woman who'd give mitch the only thing lydia can give him -- love.
speaker2: annie, that adds up to a jealous, possessive woman.
speaker1: no, i don't think so. she's not afraid of losing her son, you see. she's only afraid of being abandoned.
speaker2: someone ought to tell her she'd be gaining a daughter.
speaker1: she already has a daughter.
speaker2: what about mitch? didn't he have anything to say about this?
speaker1: i can understand his position. he went through a lot with lydia after his father died. he didn't want to risk going through it all over again.
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: so it ended. not immediately, of course. i went back to san francisco, and i still saw mitch every now and then... but we both knew it was finished.
speaker2: then what are you doing here in bodega bay?
speaker1: you get straight to the point, don't you?
speaker2: i'm sorry. forgive me.
speaker1: no, that's all right, i don't mind. i came up here for two reasons. to begin with, i was bored with my job in san francisco. i was teaching at a private school there... well, you know, you probably went to one yourself.
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: then you know. little girls in brown beanies. deadly. here i have a life. i'll go into that classroom on monday morning, and i'll look out at twenty- five upturned little faces, and each of them will be saying, 'yes, please give me what you have.' and i'll give them what i have. i haven't got very much, but i'll give them every ounce of it. to me, that's very important. it makes me want to stay alive for a long long time. that's the first reason.
speaker2: and the second?
speaker1: i wanted to be near mitch. it was over, and i knew it, but i wanted to be near him, anyway. you see, i still like him a of a lot. that's rare, i think. i don't want to lose his friendship... ever. there is a moment of silence. into the silence, the telephone shrills. annie hesitates a moment, and then goes to answer it.
speaker3: at the phone.
speaker1: hello? oh, hello. no, no, i wasn't asleep. what is it? yes, just a little while ago. sure, hold on. it's mitch. for you.

speaker1: he's waiting. 
speaker2: hello? yes, this is melanie. fine, thank you. no, no trouble at all. i simply followed the road. it's a very bright night. what? oh. well, there's no need to apologize. i can understand... well... that's very kind of you. no, i'm not angry. i couldn't. i'm afraid i have to get back to san francisco. no, i wouldn't want to disappoint cathy, but... i see. i see. well, if you really... all right. yes, i'll be there. good night, mitch.
speaker2: he wants me to go to cathy's party tomorrow afternoon. i said i would.
speaker1: i'll be going, too, to help out. it should be fun, melanie.
speaker2: it seems so pointless. i think i'll go to sleep. this has been a busy day. my luggage.
speaker1: pretty. did you get that at brinkmeyer's?
speaker2: do you think i should go?
speaker1: that's up to you.
speaker2: it's really up to lydia, isn't it?
speaker1: never mind lydia. do you want to go?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: then go.
speaker2: thank you, annie.
speaker1: who can that be at this hour? who is it? is someone there?
speaker1: is anyone there?
speaker2: look.

speaker1: i really shouldn't have any more. i'm a little tipsy already. 
speaker2: i'm trying to get you to stay for dinner. we're going to have a lot of roast left over.
speaker1: i couldn't possibly. i have to get back.
speaker2: cheers.
speaker1: cheers.
speaker1: what's in this? nitro-glycerin?
speaker2: why do you have to rush off? what's so important in san francisco?
speaker1: well... i have to get to work tomorrow morning, for one thing.
speaker2: you have a job?
speaker1: i have several jobs.
speaker2: what do you do?
speaker1: i do different things on different days.
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: on mondays and wednesdays, i work for the travelers' aid. at the airport.
speaker2: helping travelers.
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: and on tuesdays, i take a course in general semantics at berkeley. that's not a job, of course. i just take it because...
speaker2: what about thursdays and fridays?
speaker1: on thursdays i have my meeting and lunch. i'm chairman of a group that's sending a little korean boy through school. we plan how to raise funds and... things like that.
speaker2: and fridays? what do you do then?
speaker1: nothing. i go to bird shops on fridays.
speaker2: i'm glad you do.
speaker1: do you know what i was doing in that shop?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i have an aunt, you see. aunt tessa. she's seventy years old, and veddy prim and strait-laced. she's coming back from europe at the end of the month, and i'm going to give her a myna bird that'll talk to her.
speaker2: what'll it say?
speaker1: you'll think me very bold, sir.
speaker2: no, tell me.
speaker3: serious, introspective.
speaker1: that's silly, isn't it? teaching a bird to shock my aunt. that's just silly and childish. maybe i ought to go join the other children.

speaker1: all right then, here we go. once! twice! three! go get 'em, cathy! 
speaker2: look! look!
speaker3: a gull is swooping down.

speaker1: reacting to two more gulls diving. 
speaker1: she starts to run out camera right.
speaker2: she pushes her to the ground as a gull attacks.
speaker3: as a gull swoops between them.
speaker4: coming out of the house with a broom.
speaker5: swooping down at the children's heads.
speaker6: swinging at gull and missing.
speaker7: running toward bank. gull swooping after him.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: that's the darnest thing thing i've ever seen in my life.

speaker1: are they gone? 
speaker2: they're gone, mother.

speaker1: well... well, is everyone all right? 
speaker2: i think he got a little scratch, mother.
speaker3: did you see them? they were hawks!
speaker4: they were bigger than hawks!
speaker5: children, they were only seagulls.

speaker1: eyes narrowed. 
speaker2: they didn't touch anything.

speaker1: well, they're gone now, so... so let's... who was 'it?' you were 'it,' weren't you, cathy? 
speaker2: can i be 'it,' miss hayworth?

speaker1: you look a little shaken. 
speaker2: i... i am. mitch, is... mitch, this isn't usual, is it? the gull yesterday when i was in the boat, and the one last night at annie's, and now...
speaker1: last night? what do you mean?
speaker2: a gull smashed into annie's front door. mitch... what's happening?
speaker1: i don't know, melanie. look, do you have to go back to annie's?
speaker2: no, i have my things in the car.
speaker1: then stay and have something to eat before you start back. i'd feel a lot better.

speaker1: do you want some mustard with this? 
speaker2: no, thank you.
speaker3: why didn't annie stay for dinner?
speaker1: she said something about having to get home to take a call from her mother back east.
speaker3: oh. where d'you want the coffee?
speaker1: take it into the living room, would you, hon?
speaker3: what's the matter with them?
speaker4: what's the matter with all the birds?
speaker4: hurry up with the rest, mitch. i'm sure miss daniels wants to get on her way.
speaker3: i think you ought to stay the night, melanie.

speaker1: we've got an extra room upstairs and everything. 
speaker2: that road can be a bad one at night, melanie.
speaker3: if i go across to santa rosa i'll come onto the freeway much earlier.
speaker4: yeah, and the freeway's well-lighted, isn't it, mitch?
speaker2: yeah, but she'll be hitting all that traffic going back to san francisco.
speaker1: did you put the cover on that cage, mom?
speaker4: yes, i did.
speaker1: just listen to them!
speaker2: some cream?
speaker3: i'll get it.
speaker5: looking curiously.
speaker6: a single swift is sitting on the hearth.
speaker5: turning to mitch.
speaker3: mitch...

speaker1: frightened now. 
speaker2: mitch!
speaker3: hundreds of birds pouring into the room.
speaker4: shrieking in terror, dropping her coffee cup.

speaker1: get outside! run! 
speaker1: mother!

speaker1: covering her face. 
speaker2: reaching for small fireplace broom.
speaker3: shrieking as the birds dive at her face.

speaker1: blazing. 
speaker2: swooping out of the fireplace, its wings aflame.

speaker1: as the flaming bird lands on them. 
speaker2: catching fire.
speaker3: swinging the broom wildly.
speaker4: mitch! the curtains!
speaker5: turning, seeing, his eyes opening wide.

speaker1: it's working! the fire's working! 
speaker2: only the blazing fire. no more birds entering.
speaker3: birds bursting through the panes, leaving.
speaker4: as she beats away another bird.

speaker1: well, these birds live in chimneys, you know. 
speaker2: not by the thousands.
speaker1: no, i gotta admit this is peculiar. did you have a light burning or something.
speaker2: yes, but the curtains were drawn.
speaker1: 'cause sometimes birds are attracted by light, you know. sure is a peculiar thing.
speaker2: what are we going to do about it, al?
speaker1: i don't think i get you, mitch. do about what?
speaker2: well... well... these birds attacked us.
speaker3: slight disbelief on his face.
speaker1: what's more likely, they got in the room and was just panicked, that's all.

speaker1: my wife found a bird in the back seat of her car once. 
speaker1: didn't know how he got in there. had a broken leg, turned out. just fluttering all around there.
speaker2: these birds were...
speaker1: what i'm trying to say, mitch, is these things happen sometimes, you know? ain't much we can do about it.
speaker3: tell him about the party.
speaker2: that's right. we had a party here this afternoon for cathy. her birthday.
speaker1: oh, yeah, yeah. how old is she now?
speaker2: eleven. in the middle of the party, some gulls came down at the children. and miss daniels was attacked by a gull just yesterday after...
speaker4: considering this.
speaker1: yeah. were the kids bothering them or something? 'cause sometimes they'll do that, you know. if you make any kind of disturbance near them, they'll just come after you. i seen that plenty of times myself.

speaker1: the children were playing a game, al. those gulls attacked without... 
speaker2: now, lydia, 'attack' is a pretty strong word, don't you think? i mean, birds just don't go around attacking people without no reason, you know what i mean? the kids just probably scared them, that's all.
speaker1: these birds attacked!
speaker2: well, what would you like me to do, lydia? put out a pick up and hold on any suspicious birds in the area? now, that'd be pretty silly, wouldn't it?

speaker1: no, you got quite a mess here, i'll admit that. maybe you oughta put some screening on top of your chimney seems a little pointless, though. freak accident like this wouldn't happen again in a million years. you want some help cleaning up? 
speaker2: exasperated.
speaker3: i can handle it myself.
speaker4: giving a small moan.

speaker1: i think i should, don't you? 
speaker2: observing, making no comment.
speaker3: putting her arm around cathy's shoulders.
speaker1: i'll get my things from the car. do you want to walk with me, cathy?
speaker4: as cathy and melanie go out.
speaker5: well, if there's anything else i can do, mitch...
speaker6: thanks, al. we'll be all right.
speaker5: goodnight, lydia.
speaker5: sure is peculiar, i got to say that for it.

speaker1: mitch! mitch! mitch, i'm going to drop cathy off now. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'll probably drive over to the fawcett farm. do you need anything in town?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: mitch? 
speaker1: mitch?

speaker1: closer to the house now. 
speaker2: waiting, anticipating.

speaker1: i wanted to change my shirt. 
speaker1: it smelled of the fire.
speaker2: it's hard to believe anything at all happened yesterday, isn't it? it's so beautiful and still now. i think i've got it all figured out, by the way.
speaker1: really? tell me about it.
speaker2: it's an uprising.
speaker1: of birds?
speaker2: certainly, of birds.
speaker2: it all started several months ago with a peasant sparrow up in the hills, a malcontent. he went around telling all the other sparrows that human beings weren't fit to rule this planet, preaching wherever anyone would listen...
speaker1: growing a beard...
speaker2: yes, of course, he had to have a beard! 'birds of the world, unite!' he kept saying, over and over...
speaker1: so they united.
speaker2: not at first. oh yes, a few sparrows out for kicks...
speaker1: well, they'll go along with anything.
speaker2: sure. but eventually, even the more serious-minded birds began to listen. "why should humans rule?" they asked themselves.
speaker1: hear!
speaker2: why should we submit ourselves to their domination?
speaker1: hear, hear!
speaker2: and all the while, that sparrow was getting in his little messages. birds of the world, unite!
speaker1: take wing!
speaker2: you have nothing to lose but your feathers.
speaker1: what it was, probably...
speaker2: mmm?
speaker1: they're probably hungry, that's all. this was a bad summer. they eat berries and... and nuts, you know, and the hills are all burned out, so they're probably searching for food wherever they can get it.
speaker2: with my little sparrow leading team.
speaker1: it's so quiet out there.
speaker2: it was like that yesterday.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: after the gulls attacked.
speaker1: i hadn't thought of that. and then the swifts came.
speaker2: it makes you feel as if they're... they're waiting or... resting... or....
speaker1: no, they're having a meeting, melanie. your sparrow is standing on a soap box and...
speaker3: her face dead serious.

speaker1: melanie, melanie... 
speaker2: i'm frightened, mitch.
speaker1: no, no...
speaker2: i'm frightened and confused and i... i think i want to go back to san francisco where there are buildings and... and concrete and...
speaker1: melanie...
speaker2: ...everything i know.

speaker1: dan? 
speaker1: dan?

speaker1: have you seen him this morning? 
speaker2: no, ma'm. i reckon he's in there, though.

speaker1: here, chick, chick, chick, chick. here, chick, chick, chick, chick. 
speaker2: he struts up to the scattered grain.
speaker3: watching him.

speaker1: dan? 
speaker1: dan? are you home?

speaker1: a small pane of glass is broken. 
speaker2: puzzled.
speaker3: going to the front door, trying the knob.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: as he sees his mother.

speaker1: that was al on the phone. he wants me to meet him out at the fawcett place. says some detectives from santa rosa'll be there in a little while. will you be all right here? 
speaker2: yes. i was just taking her in some tea.
speaker2: be careful. please.

speaker1: oh, thank you. 
speaker1: where's mitch?
speaker2: al malone wanted him out at the fawcett farm.
speaker1: why? didn't al believe my story?
speaker2: he was calling from the farm, mrs. brenner.
speaker1: then he saw.
speaker2: he must have. he sent for the santa rosa police.
speaker1: what good will they do?
speaker1: do you think cathy's all right?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: cathy. at the school.

speaker1: do i sound foolish to you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i keep seeing dan fawcett's face. they have such big windows at the school. all the windows were broken. in dan's bedroom. all the windows.
speaker2: try not to think of that, mrs. brenner.
speaker1: i wish i were a stronger person. there is a long awkward silence. she sips at her tea reflectively.
speaker1: i lost my husband four years ago, you know. it's odd how you depend on someone for strength, and then suddenly all the strength is gone, and you're alone. i'd love to relax some time. i'd love to be able to sleep. do you think cathy's all right?
speaker2: annie's there. she'll be all right.
speaker1: i'm not this way, you know. not usually. i don't fuss and fret over my children. when frank died... you see, he knew the children, he really knew them. he had the knack of being able to enter into their world, of becoming a part of them. that's a rare talent.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i wish i could be that way.
speaker1: i miss him. you know, sometimes i wake up in the morning, and i think 'i have to make frank's breakfast,' and i... i get up and there's a... a very good reason for getting out of bed until... until, of course, i remember. i miss talking to him. cathy's a child, you know, and mitch... ...mitch has his own life. i'm glad he stayed here today. i feel safer with him here.
speaker2: would you like to rest now, mrs. brenner.
speaker1: no. no... don't go yet. i feel as if i... i don't understand you. and i want so much to understand.
speaker2: why, mrs. brenner?
speaker1: because my son is... my son seems to be fond of you. and i... i'm not quite sure how i feel about it. i really don't know if i... like you or not.
speaker2: is that so important, mrs. brenner? you liking me?
speaker1: yes, i think so. my son is important to me. i want to like any girl he chooses.
speaker2: and if you don't?
speaker1: then i don't suppose it'll matter much to anyone but me.
speaker2: i think it might also matter to mitch.
speaker1: mitch has always done exactly what he wanted to do. i'm not complaining. that's the mark of a man. but... you see, i... i wouldn't want to be... be left alone. i don't think i could bear being left alone. i... forgive me. this business with the birds has me upset. i... i don't know what i'd do if mitch weren't here.
speaker2: why don't you try to sleep now, mrs. brenner.
speaker1: i wish i were stronger. do you think she's all right? do you think she's safe at the school?
speaker2: would you like me to go for her?
speaker1: i couldn't ask you to.
speaker2: i don't mind, really.
speaker1: would you? i'd feel so much better.
speaker2: i'll just clear up here, and then dress.
speaker1: melanie?
speaker3: her face soft.
speaker1: thank you for the tea.

speaker1: i carried her off in a silver spoon. ristle-tee, rostle-tee, hey bombosity, knickety-knackety, retro-retroquo- quality, willoby-wallaby, quo-mo, mo, mo! uality, willoby-wallaby, quo-mo, mo, mo! 
speaker1: she combed her hair but once a year. ristle-tee, rostle-tee, mo, mo, mo! with every rake, she shed a tear. ristle-tee, rostle-tee, hey bombosity, knickety-knackety, retro-quo-quality, willoby-wallaby, mo, mo, mo!

speaker1: a crows is coming down. 
speaker2: as her eyes follow the flight of the crow.

speaker1: i asked my wife to wash the floor. ristle-tee, rostle-tee, mo, mo, mo! she gave me my hat and showed me the door! ristle-tee, rostle-tee, hey bombosity, knickety-knackety, retro-quo-quality, willoby-wallaby, mmmmmmmo, mmmmmmmoo, mo! 
speaker2: the play yard is full of crows.
speaker3: big head of horrified melanie.
speaker4: a closer view of the menacing birds.

speaker1: melanie in headlong flight toward annie's room. 
speaker2: all right, children. now please put your books in your desks, and bring the songsheets to the front of the room. no one's going out to play until i have all the songsheets.

speaker1: we're not going outside until we quiet down. ralph? did you hear me? 
speaker1: all right now.

speaker1: quiet down, children! quiet down! 
speaker1: miss daniels wants to see how we conduct ourselves during a fire drill. i'd like you to...
speaker2: a fire drill? this is our play period, miss hayworth! gee whiz! etc.
speaker1: i'd like you to show her how quiet and obedient you can be.
speaker1: we're going to go out of the school now. those of you who live nearby can go directly home. i want the rest of you to go down the hill, all the way to the hotel. do you understand?
speaker2: all the way down the hill? gee, miss hayworth, we never... home? why do we...?
speaker1: i want you to go as quietly as you can, not a sound, until i tell you to run. and then i want you to run as fast as you can. does everyone understand? all right. john, would you lead the class, please? the children walk two-by-two to the corridor door. john opens it, and they begin filing out. melanie turns to look at the play yard.

speaker1: hurry! 
speaker2: but a different angle.
speaker3: but a different angle from the others

speaker1: daddy, there were hundreds of them. no, i'm not hysterical, i'm trying to tell you this as calmly as i know how. all right, daddy. yes daddy. just now. not... fifteen minutes ago. 
speaker1: at the school. no, i don't. just a minute. what's the name of the school?
speaker2: just the bodega bay school. help you, mrs. bundy?
speaker3: i need some change, mr. carter.
speaker1: the bodega bay school. could you turn that down, please?
speaker1: i don't know how many children. thirty or forty. yes.
speaker1: no, the birds didn't attack until the children were outside the school. crows, i think. i don't know, daddy. is there a difference between crows and blackbirds?
speaker3: there is very definitely a difference, miss.
speaker1: they're different, daddy. thank you. i think these were crows. yes, hundreds of them. yes, they attacked the children, attacked them. daddy, a little girl was sent to the hospital in santa rosa. well, all right, but you act as if i'm... all right, all right. no, i can't come home now. i just can't, daddy. how is it there? i mean... are there birds? in the sky? but no trouble. well, i hope... i don't know when. i simply can't leave now. tell mother not to worry. all right, daddy, good-by.
speaker3: they're both perching birds, of course, but of quite different species. the crow is brachyrhynchos. the blackbird is cyanocephalus.
speaker1: thank you. do you know dan fawcett's number?
speaker2: in the book right here, miss.
speaker2: i don't see what difference it makes, mrs. bundy, crows or blackbirds. if they attacked the school, that's pretty serious.
speaker3: i hardly think either species would have the intelligence to launch a massed attack. their brain pans aren't large enough for such...
speaker1: i just came from the school, madam. i don't know about their brain pans but...
speaker3: birds are not aggressive creatures, miss. they bring beauty to the world. it is mankind, rather, who...
speaker4: three southern fried chicken, sam. baked potato on all of them.
speaker1: hello, may i speak to mitch brenner, please? yes, i'll wait.
speaker3: ...insist on making it difficult for life to survive on this planet. if it weren't for birds...
speaker2: mrs. bundy, you don't seem to understand. this young lady says there was an attack on the school.
speaker3: impossible.
speaker1: mitch? i'm glad i caught you. something terrible has happened.
speaker5: it's the end of the world!
speaker4: what's this about the school?
speaker2: bunch of crows attacked the school, helen.
speaker5: it's the end of the world. "thus saith the lord to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers and to the valleys; behold, i, even i, will bring a sword upon you, and i will destroy your high places.
speaker4: the lord's not destroying anything, jason.
speaker5: "in all your dwelling places, the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be laid waste!" ezekiel, chapter six.
speaker4: "woe unto them that rise up early in the morning that they may follow strong drink."
speaker5: isaiah, chapter 5. it's the end of the world.
speaker1: yes, all right, i'll wait for you. good-by.
speaker3: i hardly think a few birds are going to bring about the end of the world.
speaker1: these weren't a few birds.

speaker1: i didn't even know there were many crows in bodega bay this time of year. 
speaker2: the crow is a permanent resident throughout its range. in fact, during our christmas count, we recorded...
speaker3: eating.
speaker4: how many gulls did you count, mrs. bundy?

speaker1: which gulls, mr. sholes? there are several varieties. 
speaker2: the ones that've been raising the devil with my fishing boats.
speaker1: probably herring gulls. they arrive in november, you know, and don't migrate north again until march or...
speaker3: have you had trouble with gulls?
speaker2: one of my boats did last week.
speaker4: this young lady got hit by a gull only saturday.
speaker5: pick up the chicken.
speaker6: now it's gulls. a minute ago, it was crows. deke, i'm still waiting for those marys!
speaker4: coming right up!

speaker1: could you ask them to lower their voices, please? they're frightening the children. 
speaker2: timmy has a canary.
speaker3: that's nice. are you timmy?
speaker4: my cousin is timmy.

speaker1: a whole flock of gulls nearby capsized one of my boats. practically tore of the skipper's arm. 
speaker2: you're scaring the kids. keep it low.
speaker3: you're scaring me, too. are you trying to say all these... that sounds impossible, sebastian.
speaker4: i'm only telling you what happened to my boat.
speaker5: the gulls were after your fish, mr. sholes. really, let's be logical about this.
speaker6: what were the crows after at the school?
speaker5: what do you think they were after, miss...?
speaker6: daniels. i think they were after the children.
speaker5: for what purpose?
speaker6: to... to kill them.
speaker5: why?
speaker6: i don't know why.
speaker5: i thought not. birds have been on this planet since archaeopteryx, miss daniels; a hundred and twenty million years ago!
speaker5: doesn't it seem odd that they'd wait all that time to start a... a war against humanity?
speaker6: no one called it a war!
speaker7: scotch, light on the water.
speaker5: you and mr. sholes seem to be implying as much.
speaker2: are you finished here, sebastian?
speaker4: let me have some apple pie, helen. who said anything about war? all i said was that some gulls...
speaker2: one apple pie! you want more coffee?
speaker4: no. ...came down on one of my boats. they could have been after the fish, just as you said.
speaker7: your captain should have shot at them.
speaker4: what?
speaker7: gulls are scavengers, anyway. most birds are. if you ask me, we should wipe them all out. world would be better off without them.
speaker5: birds?
speaker7: yeah, birds. all they do is make a mess of everything. who needs them?
speaker5: we need them.
speaker7: not if they're starting a war.
speaker5: they are incapable of organized warfare!
speaker6: have you ever seen a jay protecting a nest?
speaker5: i have seen jays doing everything it is conceivable for jays to do. ornithology happens to be my avocation, miss daniels. you're talking about preservation of the species, a hen protecting her young. there's a vast difference between...
speaker6: maybe they're all protecting the species. maybe they're tired of being shot at and roasted in ovens and...
speaker5: are you discussing gamebirds now? all birds are not gamebirds, you know.
speaker6: i don't know anything about birds except that they're attacking this town.
speaker7: then fight back. get yourselves guns and wipe them off the face of the earth.
speaker5: that would hardly be possible.
speaker3: why not, mrs. bundy?
speaker5: because there are 8,650 species of birds in the world today, mr. carter. it's estimated that five billion, seven hundred and fifty million birds live in the united states alone. the five continents of the world...
speaker7: kill them all. get rid of them. messy animals.
speaker5: ...probably contain more than a hundred billion birds!
speaker8: it's the end of the world!
speaker3: well, we seem to have more than our share of them right now, mrs. bundy. maybe this young lady's right. maybe they've all gone crazy.
speaker2: here's your pie, sebastian. you want it at the table?
speaker4: no. here's fine.
speaker2: where are the marys, deke?
speaker3: coming.
speaker2: are we running a business here -- or a bird sanctuary?
speaker4: actually, those gulls must have been after the fish.
speaker5: of course.
speaker4: makes a lot more sense than... well, an attack.
speaker5: of course it does. if we believe that birds are attacking, why... why next we'll believe that grasshoppers and cockroaches are capable of...
speaker8: cockroaches! urghh!
speaker9: getting more and more anxious.
speaker10: hurry, children. finish your lunch.
speaker11: are the birds gonna eat us, mommy?
speaker4: maybe we're all getting a little carried away by this. admittedly, a few birds acted strangely. that's no reason to believe...
speaker6: this isn't a few birds! i keep telling you that! these are gulls and swifts and crows and...
speaker5: and what? vultures? hawks? eagles?
speaker6: maybe! is it impossible?
speaker5: yes. i have never known birds of different species to flock together. the very concept is unimaginable. why if that happened, we wouldn't have a chance. how could we possible hope to fight them?
speaker4: we couldn't. you're right, mrs. bundy.
speaker10: excuse me, may i have a check, please?
speaker2: is everything all right, ma'am?
speaker10: yes, i... i'm anxious to get on the road.
speaker12: what's the matter? something wrong out here?
speaker3: nothing's wrong.
speaker12: all this shouting.
speaker5: we're fighting a war, sam.
speaker12: a war? against who? did the russians...?
speaker4: against birds.
speaker10: i'm glad you all think this is so amusing. you've frightened my children half out of their wits.
speaker11: i'm not scared, mommy.
speaker10: keep quiet. if that young lady saw an attack on the school, why won't you believe her?
speaker12: what attack? who attacked the school?
speaker10: birds did. crows! and you're all sitting around here debating! what do you want them to do next? crash through that window?
speaker13: mommy!
speaker10: quiet! why don't you all get home? lock your doors and windows! put on your coats, children! what's the fastest road to san francisco?
speaker3: the freeway, ma'am.
speaker10: where do i get it?
speaker7: i'm going out that way, lady. you can follow me.
speaker10: then let's go. now!
speaker7: i haven't finished my drink.
speaker10: put on your coats! do you want to get trapped here?
speaker11: i can't find my scarf.
speaker10: look in your sleeve!
speaker14: melanie?
speaker14: i got here as fast as i could. where's cathy?
speaker6: at annie's house. she's all right.
speaker12: al, why aren't you over there where the attack was?
speaker15: because i just got back from dan fawcett's place, that's why.
speaker14: he was killed last night. by birds.
speaker15: now hold it, mitch. you don't know that for a fact.
speaker5: what are the facts, mr. malone?
speaker15: santa rosa police think it was a felony murder. they think a burglar broke in and killed him.
speaker10: were the santa rosa police at your school today? are you coming?
speaker7: take it easy, lady. there isn't a bird anywhere in sight.
speaker8: "look at the birds of the air: they do not sow or read, yet your heavenly father feeds them."
speaker10: i'll never feed another bird as long as i live!
speaker7: something like this happened in santa cruz last year. the town was covered with seagulls.
speaker10: can't you please finish your drink?
speaker5: that's right, sir, i recall it. a large flock of seagulls got lost in a fog and headed in for the town, where all the lights were.
speaker7: they made some mess, too, smashing into houses and everything. they always make a mess. we're better off without them.
speaker5: the point is that no one seemed to get upset about it. they were gone the next morning, just as if nothing at all had happened. poor things.
speaker10: i'm leaving! are you coming?
speaker7: all right, all right! hope you figure this out, folks.
speaker8: it's the end of the world.
speaker4: well, i'd better get back to the cannery. what do i owe you, deke?
speaker3: let's see. scallops and coffee...
speaker14: hold it just a minute, sebastian.
speaker16: his face very serious.
speaker14: sebastian, i'm not an alarmist.
speaker4: no one ever said you were, mitch.
speaker14: i think we're in trouble. i don't know how or why this started, but i know it's here and i know we'd be crazy to ignore it.
speaker5: ignore what? the bird war?
speaker14: yes, the bird war, the bird attack, the bird plague, you can call it what you want to, they're out there massing someplace and they'll be back, you can count on that!
speaker5: ridiculous!
speaker14: mrs. bundy, why don't you go home and polish your binoculars?
speaker12: go on, mitch.
speaker14: if we don't do something now, if we don't get bodega bay on the move...
speaker4: look, mitch, even if this is true, even if all the birds...
speaker14: do you believe it's true, sebastian?
speaker4: no. i don't, mitch. because i can't see any reason for it.
speaker14: it's happening. isn't that a good enough reason?
speaker4: i like bodega bay as well as any man. if i thought...
speaker14: then help me, sebastian. you're an important man in this town. if you'll help, the rest will.
speaker4: help how? what do you want to do?
speaker14: i'm not sure, but...
speaker4: if you don't even know what you want to do...
speaker6: listen to him, please.
speaker12: you listen to him, sebastian!
speaker14: i only know we've got to drive them away from town -- before they drive us away.
speaker4: how?
speaker14: mrs. bundy, you said something about santa cruz. about seagulls getting lost in the fog, and heading in for the lights.
speaker3: we don't have any fog this time of year, mitch.
speaker14: we'll make our own fog.
speaker4: how do you plan to do that?
speaker14: with smoke.
speaker15: there's an ordinance against burning anything in this town, unless it's...
speaker14: we'll use smoke pots. like the army uses.
speaker3: what good'll that do? smoke's as bad as birds.
speaker5: birds are not bad!
speaker4: how can we go on living here if we blanket the town with smoke?
speaker14: can we go on living here otherwise?
speaker12: it's worth a try, sebastian.
speaker6: look!

speaker1: gulls! 
speaker2: they're back!
speaker3: they're only the usual... what are you...

speaker1: along the flowing gas back to the station. 
speaker2: she turns back to the car park.

speaker1: mitch...! mitch! 
speaker2: the sky is full of seagulls.

speaker1: holding her breath. 
speaker2: no sign of mitch.
speaker1: getting more desperate.

speaker1: opening the door of the booth, yells out to him. 
speaker2: sees her and starts running toward the booth.

speaker1: i think it's safe to get out now. 
speaker2: don't let's take any chances.
speaker1: we've got to get cathy.

speaker1: look... the crows again. 
speaker2: mitch starts off. melanie restrains him.
speaker3: careful, mitch. the crows may be back in the play yard.

speaker1: they walk stealthily past. 
speaker1: camera panning along the waiting crows.

speaker1: he reaches the body. he rolls it over. 
speaker2: dead.
speaker3: the shock registering on his face.

speaker1: turning to follow cathy's gaze. 
speaker2: malevolent, sitting on the fence, the killers.

speaker1: mitch! don't! 
speaker1: please! get cathy! let's get out of here!
speaker2: as melanie looks anxiously toward the house.
speaker1: mitch, you can't leave her out there.

speaker1: they arrive at the car. 
speaker2: you drive, mitch.

speaker1: i don't think they're coming. 
speaker2: on our way back from taking michele home... we... we heard the explosion and went outside to... see what... what it was. all at once the... the birds were everywhere. all at once. she... she pushed me inside and... they covered her. annie. she pushed me inside.

speaker1: the town looks clear. 
speaker2: the bay doesn't.
speaker1: how long have they been gathering there?
speaker2: the past fifteen minutes. it seems to be a pattern, doesn't it? they strike and disappear, and then they start massing again.
speaker1: i keep thinking of annie.
speaker2: it... it doesn't look very different, does it? a little smoke over the town, but otherwise...
speaker1: even the birds sitting out there. it does look very much the same, mitch. this could be last week.
speaker2: it may not be last week again for a long long time.
speaker1: look. they're still coming.
speaker2: do you want to try your father again?
speaker1: i tried a little while ago. the phone's dead.
speaker2: have we still got power?
speaker1: yes. i'm tired, mitch. i'm so very very tired.
speaker3: mitch! i'm getting something on the radio!

speaker1: i can't get any of the local stations. i think this is san francisco. 
speaker2: ...would include formulation of a central financing committee to handle credit and to allocate responsibility for the various facets of the project. a vote on the motion is expected early tomorrow morning.
speaker3: listening.
speaker2: continuing with the local news, police are still investigating the series of valuable jade burglaries in the chinatown area. the round-up of known criminals has not as yet produced a suspect, but commissioner nelson said today he was certain the burglaries were quote linked and the work of the team of professionals unquote. in bodega bay early this morning, a large flock of crows attacked a group of children who were leaving the school during a fire drill. one little girl was seriously injured and taken to the hospital in santa rosa, but the majority of children reached safety in the town. on the national scene today, the opening of the new session of congress was marked by a state of the union address that...
speaker4: is that all?
speaker2: ...drew a standing ovation for the president. the chief executive, in discussing our relation to europe and the rest of the world community said: "these various elements of our foreign policy lead as i have said to a single goal --
speaker4: we're going to need more wood for the fire. we can't let it go out.
speaker2: the goal of a peaceful world of free and independent states. this is our guide for the present and our vision for the future -- a free community of nations, independent but interdependent, uniting north and south, east and west, in one great family of man, outgrowing and transcending the hates and fears that rend our age. we will not reach that goal today or tomorrow. we may not reach it in our lifetime. but the quest is the great adventure of our century. we sometimes chafe at the burdens of our obligations, the complexity of our decisions, the agony of our choices, but there is no comfort or security for us in evasion, no solution in abdication, no relief in irresponsibility. in assuming the tasks of the presidency, i said that few generations, in all history, had been granted the role of being the great defender of freedom in its hour of maximum danger. this is our good fortune, and i welcome it now as i did when i first took office. for it is the fate of this generation -- of you in the congress and of me as president -- to live with a struggle we did not start, in a world we did - not make. but the pressures of life are not always distributed by choice. and while no nation has ever faced such a challenge, no nation has ever been ready to seize the burden and the glory of...
speaker1: did you you get the windows in the attic, mitch?
speaker4: i got them all, mother.
speaker1: when do you think they'll come?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker1: if there are... larger birds, mitch... they'll get into the house.
speaker4: that's a chance we have to take.
speaker1: maybe we ought to leave.
speaker4: not now. not while they're massing out there.
speaker1: when?
speaker4: i don't know when. we'll see what...
speaker1: where will we go?
speaker4: i don't know yet. i think we'll be safe here. let's bring that wood in.
speaker1: what happens when we run out of wood?
speaker4: i don't know. we'll break up the furni...
speaker1: you don't know, you don't know! when will you know? when we're all dead? like annie?
speaker5: mother!
speaker1: if your father were here...
speaker4: mother! i'm trying my best! i'm... trying... my...
speaker1: i'm sorry, mitch.
speaker6: the strain showing on his face. he nods briefly.
speaker4: let's get the wood. why don't you make us all some coffee, mother?

speaker1: where are they heading? 
speaker2: inland.
speaker1: santa rosa?
speaker2: maybe.

speaker1: that's the last of it. 
speaker2: did you close the door?
speaker1: and locked it.
speaker3: mitch, can i bring the lovebirds in here?
speaker2: no!
speaker3: mom, they're in a cage!
speaker2: they're birds!

speaker1: let them stay in the other room. 
speaker2: her hand trembling as she pours the coffee.

speaker1: mitch? why are they doing this? the birds. 
speaker2: i don't know, honey.
speaker1: why are they trying to kill people?
speaker2: i wish i could say. but if i could answer that, i could also tell you why people are trying to kill people.

speaker1: waiting. 
speaker2: waiting.
speaker3: waiting.

speaker1: mitch... 
speaker2: shhh. shhh.

speaker1: when will they stop? 
speaker2: i thought they'd have stopped by now.
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: almost two a.m.
speaker1: you must be exhausted.
speaker2: how about you?
speaker3: looking at the birds, wondering.

speaker1: you should have left when you wanted to. 
speaker1: you'd have been safe in san francisco.
speaker2: i don't want to be safe. i want to be with you.
speaker1: the power.
speaker2: mitch...
speaker1: wait here. don't move.

speaker1: we'd better light some of those lamps. 
speaker2: no... wait. hold me.
speaker1: i think they're easing off.

speaker1: mitch? 
speaker2: as she turns toward him.
speaker1: mitch?
speaker3: asleep.

speaker1: looking. 
speaker2: a pile of chipped and broken plaster.
speaker3: turning the flashlight up toward the ceiling.
speaker4: a huge hole in it, showing moonlit sky outside.

speaker1: sitting in the darkness, staring at her. 
speaker2: reacting.
speaker3: wings spread in the beam of light.

speaker1: swinging the flashlight as the birds attack her. 
speaker2: melanie!

speaker1: melanie, open the door! 
speaker2: mitch, get her out of there!

speaker1: mother, get a rope! 
speaker2: oh, my look at her!
speaker1: get a rope!

speaker1: cathy! get a blanket and some bandages! 
speaker2: is she all right?

speaker1: just lie there and keep still. 
speaker2: let me do that, mitch.
speaker1: i can handle it.
speaker2: i know you can. but i'd like to.
speaker3: please don't mess me up with bandages, mrs. brenner.
speaker2: shhhh. shhhh.
speaker3: please.
speaker2: i'm not very good at this, mitch.
speaker1: you're doing fine.
speaker2: i mean. i want to...
speaker4: listen!

speaker1: they're gone. the same pattern. 
speaker2: but they'll be back.
speaker1: we won't be here.
speaker2: where can we go, mitch? there's no place to go.
speaker1: i want to try for san francisco. there are buildings there. steel and concrete!
speaker2: we'd never make it. they're probably all over the road.
speaker1: we have to try it. we can't stay here. melanie needs help. mother, the house won't take another attack.
speaker2: if... if... when we get to san francisco... if they're already there?
speaker1: they won't be.
speaker2: if they are?
speaker1: we'll worry about that when we get there.
speaker2: i'm frightened, terribly frightened. i... i don't know what's out there, mitch.
speaker1: what do we have to know, mother? we're all together, we all love each other, we all need each other. what else is there? mother, i want us to stay alive!
speaker2: i started to say... inside...
speaker1: you don't have to.
speaker1: i think we'd better get started.

speaker1: looking back at her. 
speaker2: may i take them, mitch?
speaker2: they haven't harmed anyone.
speaker3: take them.
speaker4: covered with waiting birds.
speaker5: getting into car.
speaker6: be careful with that door.
speaker7: mitch, if they hear the car starting... if they see movement...
speaker6: we'll take it slow until we get to the main road. are you ready?
speaker8: turning the key. the motor springs to life.
speaker9: anticipation on all the faces.
speaker6: all right. here we go.

speaker1: seeing them. her lip begins to tremble. 
speaker2: turning toward the side of the road ahead.
speaker3: mitch, let's turn back.
speaker4: shhh. shhhhh.

speaker1: mitch! 
speaker2: as he stops the car and looks ahead.

speaker1: frightened, try not to reveal her fear. 
speaker2: can we turn back?

speaker1: as she turns to look out the window on her side. 
speaker1: closing her eyes.

speaker1: strained, looking at the road ahead. 
speaker2: a clear sky, a bird-free stretch,

speaker1: taking wing. 
speaker2: taking wing.
speaker3: screaming.
speaker4: mitch!
speaker5: wrenching at the wheel as the car turns a bend.

speaker1: we're losing them. 
speaker2: only a nod, his face streaming tears.

speaker1: all their faces visible. 
speaker2: mitch? do... do you think they'll be all right? in the trunk? can they breath?
speaker3: it looks... it looks clear up ahead.

