speaker1: this is my fredricksburg house and my grandma ruth playing with my skateboard ramp. it's a tony hawk jump ramp. 
speaker1: mick?
speaker2: i forgot what i was going to say.
speaker1: this is me at my second birthday party with my mom and my dad. that's my cake.
speaker1: this is me with my mom at the zoo and this is my dad and me and my grandpa willie.
speaker1: and this is me and my dad and my grandpa willie at my dad's office.

speaker1: where's your gun? 
speaker2: yeah, where is your gun?
speaker3: i'm assuming that there are no bad guys in this room. isn't that right? i mean, are you guys good guys or bad guys?

speaker1: right. so why would i have brought my gun to a room full of good guys? 
speaker2: what's that picture?
speaker3: this is me and my dad playing battleship at my dad's apartment.
speaker3: mick?
speaker4: what is a battleship?
speaker3: my parents are divorced.

speaker1: but that's ok `cause the most important thing is to know that everybody loves each other. 
speaker2: so, who's that in that picture up on top?
speaker1: that's my fish, his name is jaws and he's a really mean fish.

speaker1: this is the day that my daddy says is the happiest day of his life. 
speaker2: really. his happiest day! can you tell us about that day, mr. fleury?

speaker1: i sure can. that was december 4th and that was the day that we spent the whole day in the hospital waiting for this guy right here to come out of kevin's mom's tummy. and we waited and waited but he wouldn't come and we kept waiting and finally the doctor said `ok...he's not gonna come out on his own so we got to go get him.' and well, fleury stops, checks in with miss ross. 
speaker1: can i tell this story?
speaker2: go for it. ronald fleury so they take her and put her on a special bed and they give her some medicine so she doesn't feel any pain then they take out this tiny little knife and make a tiny little cut right here in her tummy.
speaker2: then what happened? ronald fleury then the doctor put her hands way up into kevin's mom's tummy. way in! and then you know what they did?
speaker3: what did they do?
speaker1: they started to pull and pull and pull... they had something in there and it started coming and they were pulling and the doctor all of the sudden said "stop!" the class is frozen. fleury has them.

speaker1: how are you today, sergeant? 
speaker2: sun is shining. wind is blowing.
speaker1: i like that, "sun is shining..." a tight smile from haytham.

speaker1: you getting this yet? 
speaker2: hey, i'm at kevin's school. what's goin' on?
speaker1: i'm sorry, brother. riyadh. many dead. fleury's demeanor shifts to hard immediately.
speaker2: where exactly?
speaker1: the al-rahmah western housing compound. oil company employees.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: big. broad daylight. blew up a softball game. kids, brother. fleury looks at the kids eating and laughing.
speaker3: dad?
speaker2: when?
speaker1: just went off -- twenty minutes ago. two bombers. a shooter crew as diversion...it's just awful.
speaker2: fran, i'm rollin' right now. let me call you back: i gotta ring bells

speaker1: go. i'll be here. 
speaker2: son, i gotta go to work.
speaker3: we're gonna do ceramics...
speaker2: i gotta go to work...
speaker3: who was that?
speaker2: big fran -- you remember him?
speaker3: uncle fran? put peanuts in his coke so he could drink and eat all at the same time?
speaker2: where he's from in south carolina that's called fine-dining, bud.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker2: something bad.
speaker4: `lotta bad people out there...'
speaker2: i love you.
speaker3: you gonna go see him?

speaker1: i'm gonna try... 
speaker1: can you get a ride?
speaker2: where's your husband going?
speaker3: ex-husband, and knows.

speaker1: fran. you gotta stand big man... 
speaker2: rex, how old were you when your hat was that small?
speaker3: you gotta stand, big man.
speaker2: we need to get everyone back, then get all their-

speaker1: glenda, i want you to look at me. 
speaker1: please... i'm going to take care of this. whoever did this... i give you my word. whoever did this will pay. i can't change this, but i can promise you that i will make someone pay for this.

speaker1: ...1 hour ago: blasts in saudi arabia, in or around the `al- rahmah' western housing complex near riyadh. more than 100 feared dead, including children. the saudi foreign minister has released a statement calling this a `heinous act possibly committed by foreigners...' 
speaker2: ...homes to thousands of westerners and other non-saudis who work in the kingdom, there have been several attacks on these compounds in the last five years. as such, they have become very tight in terms of security, with both the saudi national guard and police taking command.

speaker1: so was rex burr from state. 
speaker1: fran was the best among us...we'll feel this loss the rest of our days... grant, take stabs at bomb sizes.
speaker2: from the craters, looks like they used a high explosive... possibly military grade: can't fit that much tnt into a vest. 20, 30 pounds of petn: they got it. semtex or c-4: they could get it. the third there, knows...that crater looks like a plane dropped a 500-pounder...
speaker1: obviously a secondary blast after the initial devices used to lure first responders to the scene. don't know anything about where or what it was yet.
speaker2: this is how they do it.

speaker1: i already know the answer, but any chance in we get to go over there, use our hands? 
speaker2: if you already know the answer adam, why ask the question?
speaker3: we're not seeing this kind of planning and execution anywhere else...these ain't hot-wired artillery shells waiting for humvees to roll by. these hits are coordinated: planning, timing, and big, broad- daylight balls-
speaker4: yeah, so... did they all happen during daylight?
speaker5: yes. at least the first parts of the attacks.
speaker4: we had two others...north of riyadh and the oil thing. what was that?
speaker6: the refinery... ras tenura refinery.
speaker4: yeah, south of jeddah. same thing: daylight, suicide bombers. right?

speaker1: same thing. followed by machine gun crews. collect and kill. 
speaker2: yup.
speaker3: this is not new in concept. it is new in scope. it's bigger. very sophisticated. command and control was flawless. they found the largest kill zone they could and they did it... they did it by being patient.
speaker2: any rumors or confirmations of uniforms being used in the other two attacks? fleury circles mayes' name on the ert roster.
speaker4: no. i know this is the first for that.
speaker5: that's `worst case scenario' if you're still asking for my stab, sir. a crew who can build bombs this big, with this level of eyes- on control and detonation coordination... has access to saudi uniforms now...i mean...baby
speaker6: anyone take credit?
speaker7: abu hamza. saudi al-qaeda. bin- laden-wanna-be. we know he was in afghanistan, then moved to iraq. now he seems to have come home. he's clearly becoming increasingly active...
speaker2: if it is hamza, he's definitely turning up the volume over there.

speaker1: not to beat a dead horse, sir, but if there was ever a time to get boots on saudi sand... 
speaker2: they can't afford to appear as if they are losing any kind of control. they lose control over their country, their people...then they risk losing control over the oil. they won't let us in. no way.
speaker3: from the state department, one hour ago: `we are in agreement with the saudi security assessment that any additional american presence on kingdom soil represents reckless risk. therefore it is the secretary of state's position that only after the situation has been evaluated and contained, should the federal bureau of investigation activate rapid deployment.' the national security advisor and the attorney general agreed. i'm going to get us access. keep your go bags hot. it's gonna come fast.
speaker1: well... i guess he's gonna go get us some access. how's he gonna do that?

speaker1: no falsehoods, sergeant haytham. 
speaker2: killing those i saw responsible.
speaker1: so none could be questioned?
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: you were born and raised in suweidi-
speaker2: -that is not a crime-
speaker1: -it should be.
speaker2: it's not.

speaker1: do you know abu hamza? 
speaker2: i do not.
speaker3: your brother was killed fighting the americans. true or false?
speaker2: i am not my brother.
speaker3: your brother--
speaker2: i am not my brother!
speaker3: true or- al-ghazi interrupts.
speaker4: he has answered the question.
speaker3: we found six more uniforms than you were assigned in your possession -- that is a crime: especially when you consider the attackers wore our uniform...
speaker2: uniforms?
speaker3: truth!
speaker2: i sweat. i'll say it again because it is true. i need more uniforms because i must change during shifts...look at my shirts.

speaker1: i am not interested in your sweat. 
speaker2: -then look at my jackets. please. permanent stains...no matter how many times they're cleaned...

speaker1: he's telling the truth. 
speaker2: you were injured when you used your vehicle to protect your country. do you understand?

speaker1: you saved lives today. i believe that. you served your country. i believe that. 
speaker2: i love my country.
speaker1: i believe that, haytham...
speaker2: i love my country...
speaker1: you will have your revenge for what needed to be done to assure them you weren't involved.

speaker1: everyone's terrified, so nothing moves. paralysis. you and your team aren't going anywhere. and this meeting is just a circle- jerk, ronnie: attorney general young's going to go through the motions because protocol says we get an appeal. we'll be on record, but expect nothing more. 
speaker1: can you handle this? keep your mouth shut when people way above you say things you'll hate?

speaker1: yeah, sure. no problem. 
speaker2: what about agent mayes?
speaker1: ask her.
speaker2: what about you?
speaker3: i'll be fine.

speaker1: i apologize if we're late- 
speaker2: they were early.
speaker1: you know special agent fleury?
speaker2: i do.

speaker1: this is agent janet mayes, she's one of our arabic experts. 
speaker2: ok. the latest.
speaker3: two suicide bombers. rumors they were dressed as saudi police. we believe this is the work of saudi terrorist named abu hamza.
speaker2: go on.
speaker3: a shooter crew served as distraction. after the initial attack there was a lull to allow saudi emergency teams...and our own attaches...to collect. then a secondary blast was triggered, aimed at those first responders. so they targeted families and rescuers with one attack. i think that's a clear signal that their definition of `enemy' is expanding.
speaker4: my
speaker2: let us never forget how cheap life is over there. now...i have seven minutes before my next meeting, so who's talking first? you two digested the memo?

speaker1: i'll go first if that's okay maricella? first, i'm sorry about fran manner. 
speaker2: as we are about rex burr.
speaker1: i met with prince thamer at the saudi embassy fifteen minutes after i heard this morning's news. after speaking with thamer, i advised we withhold additional us personnel because a big part of the religious justification for these bombs is the presence of current us personnel. more boots on saudi soil make an already combustible situation more so. i know that's not the answer you want, but...
speaker3: my two cents: the saudis haven't asked for fbi help. sounds like they've done just the opposite. if we force the issue, that could further anger an utterly important ally that shares a 1000-mile long border with iraq.
speaker4: it's all rock-solid logic.
speaker2: we would just like to be on record as saying we think we should go

speaker1: -so as we present this to the public, let's - as best we can - try to view this through an fbi agent's eyes. and please let me know if there's anything else we can do for you. 
speaker2: sir, how would you imagine it looks viewed through an fbi agents eyes?
speaker1: pardon me?
speaker2: i'm interested in how you think this situation is viewed through our eyes.
speaker1: it's some variation on vengeance... when one of your own is killed, agents lose their analytical powers - kind of a greatest strength, greatest weakness thing...
speaker2: if i wanted vengeance, i'd have whispered `rex burr' into ellis's ear right when we walked in. eyes migrate to fleury --
speaker2: this isn't terrorism, ma'am. it's just serial murder.
speaker3: what's the distinction?

speaker1: to call this massacre an act of terrorism... that implies a specific political agenda. to me, these killings are so futile and unbalanced that they feel utterly sociopathic- more like charles manson than osama bin laden... 
speaker2: al qaeda lost the first phase of this war, so a new, zero-sum phase has begun: if you won't join us, we'll let loose the truly talented murderers... abu hamza. he will kill so many of you that the resulting humiliation of the saudi royal family will cause an exodus, a rebellion, both. because the royal family simply cannot protect you or yours any longer.
speaker1: when she says talented, she's not talking about the walking-bombs who can sneak past any and all security, nor the hi-jackers tough enough to take an airliner. we're talking about the man who teaches them how...
speaker2: --the operational commander who organizes, trains, plans, encourages. that is who we're fighting.
speaker1: if we don't get inside saudi arabia within 36 hours, there is no chance we catch the killer responsible for al-rahmah. none.

speaker1: okay. i believe it all. so doesn't your team in that country represent the kind of target one of these `masters' would die for? trade ten of their own for one of you? 
speaker2: to not engage these criminals out of fear for our personal safety is just another way of saying `uncle.' fleury takes another deep breath.
speaker2: i'll say it another way: evidence starts to go cold after twenty four hours. if we can't get in now, we will not find the man or men responsible for this crime. we couldn't do it at khobar; we couldn't do it in yemen; we have barely scratched the surface in iraq. and we are on verge of not doing it here. they are getting stronger, we are getting weaker. i just lost a very good friend and i would very much like to go and do my job.
speaker3: that was spirited... let's all thank special agent fleury doesn't make policy decisions. he'd turn the fbi into patton's third army.

speaker1: it's not vengeance. 
speaker2: it ain't justice. it's stronger. we've all been there. i have.
speaker1: i just can't sit this out. i can't watch this not get dealt with. not again. know what my high school football coach used to say to me?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: "hit something." all night long, coach bailey would scream "hit something." every play.
speaker2: that's good coaching.
speaker1: i'm fixing to go hit something, boss. you with me?
speaker2: how you gonna do it?
speaker1: the saudis covet good pr as much as their oil: 15 of 19 hijackers on 9- 11 means most americans will never stop asking if that saudi oil is worth it. it's all about press.
speaker2: few more moves and it's total war, ronnie. the only time treason is palatable is when it's done righteously and completely...
speaker3: oh, i'm in...not a question. i'm definitely going.

speaker1: what's your take? 
speaker2: looks like every overthrow in history: once the guys with the guns are no longer trustworthy, the government's days are numbered.
speaker1: white house call you with a spin?
speaker2: you kidding? we don't talk since i broke the vice president's guy cooking dirty intel on iran. they hate me. what's up, fleury?
speaker1: how hard you gonna hit the royal family in your column tomorrow?
speaker2: with a sledgehammer.
speaker1: with the bombings? or other things...
speaker2: what's "other" than the bombings?
speaker1: i know you're tracking al haramain.
speaker2: is that what you want to talk about? saudi officials making donations that end up... what? blowing up trains in paris? buses in london?
speaker1: sometimes. seems that just might happen.

speaker1: we got some other stuff: missing girls out of a houston four seasons hotel that was heavily populated by some "saudi officials." little things... 
speaker2: murder...hookers...houston? can i take some notes?
speaker1: i'm not saying that.
speaker2: are you saying anything?
speaker1: i need a favor.
speaker2: i don't do favors, ronnie.
speaker1: when it's real and it will be real... i'll come to you with what we have first. it's yours.

speaker1: you call thamer at the embassy. tell him that the fbi is getting real close to laying out some major saudi vip indictments relating to newly uncovered charity financing out of a boston investment firm. we're gonna freeze a lot of saudi cash and roll out some major embarrassment. 
speaker2: can i mention houston?
speaker1: it's a free world, baby. ask him to comment.
speaker2: he won't.

speaker1: tell him that i'm not the nicest kid on the block. 
speaker2: that would be accurate.
speaker1: i want fifteen minutes with him tonight.
speaker2: wow. ok. and i get what?
speaker1: i come to you first. no one else.
speaker2: what's really going on here, ronnie? you going strong over fran manner?
speaker1: i'm just trying to do my job, elaine. that's it. call thamer.
speaker2: i'll see what i can do.

speaker1: too many people we both know were at the bar. it's a pleasure to meet you, your highness. 
speaker2: i had an interesting conversation with a reporter from the post.
speaker1: she can be a bit of an exaggerator... i'm sure things were somewhat over-stated. i see myself as friend of saudi arabia. i just need a little cooperation, that's all.
speaker2: what kind of cooperation??
speaker1: full cooperation: my team cleared to land at prince sultan air base. tomorrow. we want to help in a very muscular way, quickly.
speaker2: next month would be as soon as...
speaker1: this goes one of two ways. first: the fbi with the white house go on the kind of aggressive pr "saudi royal family decaying monarchy" bender that just can't help but hurt. really hurt. and i don't care how many chinese are lined up to buy the oil. you know it's gonna hurt.
speaker2: my family is not decaying-

speaker1: and then we bring the hammer down hard as hell: bust al haramain - we got direct links from riyadh - two wives donating ten million to three arab-american cultural centers in boston. then what gets kind of not- funny is how some of that cash found its way to jakarta and some mosques that have these training camps built right next to them. it's kinda funny... you got little kids playing over here, and some not so little kids playing with guns over here. that's kinda odd. 
speaker2: you have no proof of this.
speaker1: we're getting there, sir. and i haven't even brought up the two girls still missing out of houston. this is big. it is real. and i know you only care so much about public american opinion, sir. but the story will be covered... big...
speaker1: and this ain't the metro section. it's above the fold, just below the date. words like these get syndicated to papers like the omaha world-herald, the terrell tribune -- you ever been to terrell, texas?
speaker2: what is your point?
speaker1: last i heard, 112 people lost their lives in your country. one of them was a good friend of mine. i want in and i want in immediately.

speaker1: define "immediately." 
speaker2: right now immediately.
speaker3: if your phone doesn't work international, you can borrow mine.
speaker3: i'll just be right out here.
speaker1: we cannot allow 100 agents-
speaker2: -4. with a 25-man security detail-
speaker1: -even 25 more armed americans could spark rebellion-
speaker2: that's too bad.
speaker1: saudi security. that's non negotiable. you cannot bring guns into the kingdom.
speaker2: men in saudi police uniforms are why we're talking now.
speaker1: they would be hand picked.

speaker1: whose hands? 
speaker2: mine.
speaker2: trust me...that's the only hope of this happening.
speaker3: if anything happens to me or my team... it's on you. understood?
speaker2: cool it with the john wayne, mr. fleury.
speaker2: you can have a week-
speaker1: -seven-day or work-week?
speaker2: work week. five days. no guns.

speaker1: just in time. 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker3: you haven't heard about the attack?
speaker2: i choose not to listen anymore.
speaker3: an attack today.
speaker2: look at me.
speaker2: is this how they now treat the men who protect them? can you look at me? you cannot, can you? can you look at yourself?
speaker2: you are protecting the true enemies of

speaker1: what was fran manner to her? 
speaker2: he taught her how to shoot, she taught him most everything else. celebrated graduation at the ihop in-town until some townie called janet something...something not very nice. townie didn't see fran coming outta the head. but he definitely felt fran's uppercut shatter his jaw.

speaker1: fran didn't get bounced for that? 
speaker2: sac fleury took care of him.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: if i knew how i'd be sac sykes. i do know the post in riyadh was part of the deal fleury cut to save fran's career.
speaker1: what did sac fleury whisper in your ear this morning?
speaker3: `grant's age is a liability.'
speaker4: thanks for volunteering.
speaker5: actually, i didn't volunteer.
speaker4: thanks anyway.
speaker5: we're going to riyadh?
speaker4: yup.
speaker6: state department said yes?
speaker4: nope.

speaker1: white house said yes? 
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: anybody said yes?
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: are we bringing security?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: this is going to so bad.

speaker1: what can four people do in five days? really? 
speaker2: aren't you the one who demanded to go this morning?
speaker1: i meant the fbi. i didn't mean "me."

speaker1: what's it like on the ground? 
speaker2: mars.
speaker3: i'll be looked at with what i can only describe as disdain, pretty much the entire time we're on the ground... kind of like south virginia.
speaker2: go easy on my kin.
speaker3: it's a very confused culture. extremely religious. had nothing; wanted nothing. sixty years ago, they hit oil. simple religious men become trillionaires... a schizophrenic nation is born. the royal family, who we back, and everyone else.

speaker1: four fbi agents will be allowed to land at prince sultan air base this evening. 
speaker1: general abdul-malik, chief of investigative services for the national guard has been put in- charge of solving this crime.
speaker2: i know the general. i attended his interrogation of one of my men. the general does not have investigative experience.
speaker1: attackers wore your uniform. police uniforms. some of your men may have been involved with this cell, may still be involved. you're lucky to have a role at all.
speaker1: and your role will be critically important: make sure the americans leave our country as alive as when they arrive. five days they will be our guests. understood?

speaker1: what's going on in there? 
speaker2: i'm good.
speaker1: feels like you got a beast in there, fleury.
speaker2: i'm good
speaker1: "good" is 6:00 am sunday morning when your kid climbs into your bed, buries himself into you... sun's creeping through the windows - soft. birds and wind-chimes... that's "good." a beat as fleury looks at sykes.
speaker2: i'm ok...you don't think i'm ok?
speaker1: i think you're not entirely clear right now. that's ok, but you got to know that. you want to go - we go. i got you, but you got to check yourself.
speaker2: i'm checked.
speaker1: ok. i'm just checking that you checked.

speaker1: how we doing? 
speaker2: about a half hour out.
speaker1: they gonna let us land?
speaker2: we've been talking to them about an hour or so... they know we're coming.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: you don't mind my asking, but what the you all gonna be doing down there?
speaker1: hunting...
speaker2: hunting...? i think of hunting, i think quail in tennessee, deer in pennsylvania. what kind of hunting you all gonna do in saudi?
speaker1: big game hunting.

speaker1: colonel al-ghazi. 
speaker2: special agent ronald fleury.
speaker1: your two fallen comrades, mr. manner and mr. burr.
speaker1: passports and credentials. please.
speaker1: thank you to keep these on whenever you are outside of al-rahmah.
speaker3: we brought our own.

speaker1: israeli stamp in my passport? 
speaker2: that is not our concern.
speaker2: i'm also to collect your sidearms.
speaker3: and i usually just toss it on the kitchen table...
speaker2: if each of you would please get into the middle vehicle.

speaker1: wouldn't need the power a' prayer if there were 2 hands on the wheel. 
speaker2: 110 miles per hour... how do you keep so calm? i mean, really? is it breathing--
speaker1: --shhhh....
speaker3: if somebody was tailing us it'd be obvious. this is just standard operating speed.

speaker1: i have been there only once. i spent four days at quantico... i saw your michael jordan play for the washington wizards. 
speaker2: you don't know what you missed... you should have seen him play for our chicago bulls.
speaker3: you have portable lights on-scene?
speaker1: yes. but your team cannot work nights.
speaker3: we only have seven days: we work around the clock.
speaker1: five days. and you are not safe at night.
speaker3: we're safe during the day?

speaker1: i don't like camels. 
speaker2: colonel, do you believe abu hamza was responsible for this attack?
speaker3: we don't know.
speaker2: were saudi police involved in the attack?
speaker3: we don't know that either.
speaker2: any word on what that third big blast was?
speaker3: not yet.
speaker4: you interviewed witnesses?
speaker3: we're trying. no one who was close enough to see the things we would like to know, lived.
speaker4: were any of the uniformed bombers brother-officers?

speaker1: do you know yet? 
speaker2: you don't know the source of the blast, don't know if your own officers were involved, but you won't let us work nights?
speaker3: 47 of my `brother-officers' were blown into hundreds of pieces that will take months to collect. 80,000 officers total, across the country, at four uniforms apiece. thousands of people who can sew forgeries. apologies that i don't have definitive answers. you're still not working nights.

speaker1: good afternoon, sir. 
speaker2: `sunlight is indeed the most powerful disinfectant.

speaker1: senators? then i'd change `outmoded' to `outdated,' `echelons' to `ranks' and what in name is `contretemps?' these guys aren't the best and brightest- young's face flashes red, seething: 
speaker2: -never take the lord's name in vain in this office-
speaker1: -but you can say `fucking?'
speaker1: you're going to the senate select committee, but not to the president who appointed you. why's that? i bet the president wasn't the audience you thought he'd be: i'll bet he realized you can't have voters asking why the second- longest serving fbi director gets fired for doing his job, for sending agents into saudi arabia, seven months from mid-term elections-

speaker1: -you really want to bet? 
speaker2: i do.
speaker2: westmoreland made all us officers write our own obituaries during tet, when it looked like the cong were going to end it all right there. once we clued-in that life was finite, the loss of it no longer scared us: the end comes no matter what, it's just a question of how you want to go out: on your feet or on your knees. after that, we went out and pulled triggers until barrels melted. and vietnam lasted another seven years. the lesson extends to this career: i act, knowing the end of this job will come, no matter what. you should do the same.
speaker2: i'll forward fleury's reports.

speaker1: that's one of the great horrors of television: crime scene manipulation. they say a tv camera adds pounds to actresses. isn't that what they say? 
speaker2: who's "they?"
speaker1: that is what they say. doesn't add to crime scenes. television cameras shrink them. misrepresent. no smells. poor sound. limited view. tv always makes them look smaller. you can't feel the hatred on television.
speaker3: ...heads on a swivel, people.

speaker1: the bathrooms are through that door. i will be here tomorrow morning so we can begin. 
speaker2: what time tomorrow morning?
speaker1: sunrise.
speaker3: what time is sunrise?
speaker1: when i knock.
speaker4: that's against fire code.
speaker5: they don't have fire codes. they don't have codes other than codes of war. they'll lock us in and dial up some kind of earth movers if they want to. you know that, sykes. dig a big hole and push us in. fill it up and no one comes calling. you're in the jungle now, baby.
speaker6: you alright, girl?
speaker5: watch it, boy.
speaker6: just asking...
speaker5: unpack.

speaker1: everyone hits their own bags first. 
speaker2: saudi slow roll...
speaker3: hello?
speaker4: hey... how are you? how's my boy?
speaker3: we're just fine. how are you?
speaker4: i'm here... lemme talk to my boy.
speaker5: daddy?
speaker2: what you doing?
speaker5: i'm talking to you. what are you doing right now, daddy? right now?
speaker2: i'm missing you.
speaker5: where are you?
speaker2: i'm in saudi arabia.
speaker5: did you see big fran?

speaker1: yeah... i saw him... 
speaker1: i saw him.
speaker2: is he still tall?
speaker1: yeah... yeah...he's still tall.
speaker2: daddy? are you still there?
speaker1: yeah, buddy. i love you. keep your eye on your mama. be the man.
speaker2: you, too daddy.
speaker1: i'll call you tomorrow. i love you.
speaker2: bye, daddy.

speaker1: you are in so much trouble. 
speaker2: is that right?
speaker1: for sure. i mean, i don't know how you did it. nice work, but if you live through this, which i put at about fifty percent - if you do, your are gonna get stretched and beaten on. dig that?
speaker1: damon schmidt. state department. i'm in charge of getting you out of here.
speaker1: don't let go of his hand first. major disrespect.

speaker1: we've invited american legal officials into our kingdom despite current difficulties between the us and islam. they will observe our advanced investigative techniques, offering helpful hints. you will please honor me with your presence tonight at my home. yes. 
speaker2: nice pictures. you guys ready to go home now?
speaker2: ok. if you change your minds, i got a plane fueled up and ready to go - got your name all over it...
speaker2: strap your kevlar on tight, people.
speaker3: slow roll... gonna be like when you go deep sea fishing in florida and you pay seven hundred bucks for the boat and you sit in the ocean for hours and the crew jumps around and screams and points and you think your constantly about to bag a marlin but you never do and they keep pointing and jumping and-

speaker1: enough. 
speaker2: you're willing to die to protect your enemy?
speaker3: what did the prince say?
speaker4: that there are more rules than just not working at night.
speaker3: what rules?
speaker4: you are here as observers. not investigators.
speaker3: that's not accurate-- al-ghazi ignores fleury.
speaker4: --i need to make sure the sites are secure. then you can begin observing.

speaker1: well, this is going well... 
speaker2: saudi slow roll.
speaker3: good.

speaker1: how do you do that? 
speaker2: check.
speaker1: don't say `good' again.
speaker3: bueno.
speaker4: i am sorry for the time. you won't need you gear.
speaker5: of course we won't.

speaker1: i would have thought your primary concern was investigating a crime. 
speaker2: and you would be mistaken.
speaker3: i think it's one of those "something happens to us... his head comes off" kind of deals. is it one of those kind of deals, colonel?
speaker1: so, if you're not running the investigation...who is?
speaker2: the national guard's military police brigade is conducting the investigation. my orders begin and end with your health.
speaker4: i thought the sang were soldiers--
speaker2: --the bombers didn't wear a soldier's uniform. they wore mine.
speaker5: who is in charge of the investigation then?

speaker1: general abdul-malik. he's given us permission to walk through each crime-scene. 
speaker2: to walk through? are you kidding me?
speaker1: i am not.
speaker2: get him over here now and let's clarify this situation.
speaker1: there is no lack of clarification.
speaker2: there sure as is! i don't know what kind of game you're playing but you got the wrong guy, colonel al-ghazi! that was not the deal-
speaker1: this is not a game show, mr. fleury! there are no deals made here. there is me telling you what you may or may not do and there is you doing it.
speaker1: you will be permitted to walk through the crime scenes. when we have determined that it is safe.

speaker1: how have you guys been doing with the witnesses? 
speaker2: what witnesses?
speaker3: i'm guessing there are a bunch of americans, brits... australians? someone must have seen something. i'm sure they're just dying to talk to you guys, seeing as how the killers were wearing your uniforms. that must be a real confidence booster for them.
speaker3: let me talk to them.

speaker1: why saudi arabia? 
speaker2: neither of us did anymore schooling than electra high, electra texas.

speaker1: and the jobs here pay twice what you'd make in midland or the gulf a' mexico. plus the house is free. 
speaker2: i call it combat pay. this place has gone guns - guns - guns.
speaker3: so has everyone else now.
speaker4: my girlfriends in texas spend their combat pay on diamonds... i spent mine on a safe room.
speaker3: two nights back. can you start one second before you knew anything was wrong?
speaker4: we didn't really see anything. just hit the ground and hustled to the safe room. closed our eyes and prayed. it was so fast. so loud.
speaker3: so you really didn't see anything.
speaker5: i hit the deck. horrible.
speaker4: not `til after. just the screams--

speaker1: -- the kids... they were screaming. that got me out of the house. those kids. 
speaker2: which kids were those?
speaker3: the jackson kids. tracy jackson next door was murdered looking out her window...front of her children. no safe room over there... not even the men that did this should die in front a' their babies.
speaker4: she live with her husband?
speaker1: aaron.
speaker4: if i'm facing your house, is the jackson home to the right or left?
speaker3: left.

speaker1: mr. aaron jackson? 
speaker2: get him away from me-

speaker1: -easy, sir. he's a friend to us- 
speaker2: -i don't know either one a' you.
speaker1: i'm special agent ronald fleury of the fbi. this is colonel al-ghazi with the saudi state police-
speaker2: -the police: they attacked.
speaker2: i just put my boys down for the first time in two days. i can't wake `em and sure as can't be gone if they stir on their own.
speaker1: can i come back?

speaker1: your boys... 
speaker1: to ask about two nights ago.
speaker2: when my wife's jaw was shot off in front of our sons? my sons who sat with her while she bled to death? couldn't speak because she didn't have the bottom of her face and i wasn't home and my baby boys are destroyed for life and my five year- old had a box of band-aids in his hand when i finally got home?

speaker1: ...i won't pretend to know... 
speaker2: kill everyone that had something to do with this. everyone related to them. everyone who knew them. and all you'd be doing is their recruiting for them... it's an entire generation: not small and isolated like they say. but a generation that thinks what they did to my wife, to my children, is a "calling"...
speaker1: up the street, there was a wreck, did you see any-
speaker2: -notice how it wouldn't take a lot to disguise your friend as a mexican? think he couldn't handle crossing our deserts? look around!
speaker1: aaron-

speaker1: can we tour the compound? can we please do that? 
speaker2: he or she almost made it.
speaker2: makes me think of the trade centers -- the people on the floors above the impacts -- no matter how fast or strong or smart you are, if you're in the wrong spot, `it' will not let you get away.
speaker3: that's what makes this a war.

speaker1: hit a water main? 
speaker2: no -- from the tanks of this fire engine: that's the water that didn't evaporate in the blast.
speaker3: hole is the case. see, there's "evidence" down in that hole. you understand evidence? little things that are "clues." clues can be very helpful to a fella when he's trying to solve a crime.
speaker2: i understand that.
speaker3: glad to hear it. so can we get in there?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: a little high... 
speaker2: watt-tee...
speaker1: watt-tee is his gun doing up so high?
speaker3: this vehicle was stolen. two drivers murdered. a team outside the blast-radius...shooting at anything. everyone. sergeant haytham ended this part.
speaker1: are the shooters in-custody-
speaker4: -dead.
speaker2: were any of these shooters your men?
speaker4: no.

speaker1: they got into the compound. somehow...took control of this vehicle. i'm guessing they didn't politely ask whoever was in this car if they could take it for a little ride? 
speaker2: no, they didn't. there were two officers in the car. both were executed.
speaker1: i understand that. those men were your men--
speaker3: -- they were. they were police.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker1: where was this car when they hit it? a77a ext. al-rahmah - main gate a77a
speaker4: security is a combination of the police and military.
speaker5: good news is that if he shoots you, he's gonna shoot you sitting on an american tank... with an american- made bullet. so, it's kind of "all in the family."

speaker1: the car was parked here? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: backed in?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: they were attacked from the front. must have assumed the killers were fellow officers... have any of these men been identified?
speaker3: not yet. we will check certain neighborhoods. it is likely that the four men prayed at the same mosque.
speaker4: the same mosque is enough to identify them, link them to a cell?
speaker3: yes. if the mosque is in suweidi.
speaker5: suweidi?

speaker1: suweidi is a known militant stonghold. al-qaeda could recruit from storefronts. 
speaker2: can we go to check out some of these surrounding buildings?
speaker3: why?
speaker2: seems reasonable that the planner had to observe and based on hamza's past history, it's consistent that he would want to video the attack.
speaker3: that is true.
speaker4: well, in order to video, in order to observe, you need a view.
speaker2: that building sees all three crime scenes.
speaker3: it's outside the walls-
speaker5: -c'mon now. this is insane: we got enough security to invade suweidi, let alone that building-
speaker3: -no you don't.
speaker2: could you ask?

speaker1: we're already seeing the crime- scenes individually -- why not all at once? 
speaker2: any answer will take-
speaker1: -time. i understand.
speaker1: you have to ask the general, then the general would ask the prince. does it go higher or is that... is the prince the end of the chain?
speaker1: we'll be at the community center. janet, wanna play hoops?

speaker1: this is the kind of radical circumstance that could have seriously upped shaq's free throw percentages. take a man. ship him off to riyadh. no phones, constant threat of death, no girls, no hip hop. nothing... just free throws. shaq, he'd be shooting at least seventy percent. lakers would still be together. kobe and shaq lovers forever. 
speaker2: hey, boss... check this out.

speaker1: just posted half hour ago. 
speaker1: so self congratulatory. makes me sick.

speaker1: it's cleared with general abdul- malik. we have five minutes here. 
speaker2: we were told they must remain in the vehicles...
speaker1: that is not true...
speaker2: they must stay in the toyotas-
speaker1: -report me then when you get in- touch with the general-
speaker3: tell me it didn't burst-tell me it didn't burst-

speaker1: you've seen the images of the attack posted on the internet? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: look for yourself.
speaker2: he was here...
speaker3: formed the plan up here: saw everything he could hit. way too pretty a' plan to have been fully hatched on just one visit. he came here a couple times.
speaker4: the man who did this is a saudi - this place, this neighborhood... if foreigners were up here, someone would say something.
speaker1: i see.
speaker4: nobody's talking. here, many people love hamza - they think of him like bin laden. like your robin hood.

speaker1: a man who thinks of something like this ...while maybe his family played around him... scares me more than i have words to express. 
speaker2: two big answers in two small minutes. imagine if we had a couple days together.
speaker2: i'm sure the general is good guy...and i'm just as sure he's no investigator.
speaker2: let me help you.

speaker1: we break now: too hot to work outdoors. then we will leave for the palace. 
speaker2: and i imagine that will run until sundown?
speaker1: i had televisions delivered to your quarters to pass the downtime.
speaker1: miss mayes will not attend this evening. men only.

speaker1: we're here. 
speaker2: big wall.
speaker1: it's a big palace.

speaker1: how many princes are there? 
speaker2: over 5000.
speaker3: they all get palaces this big?

speaker1: some get bigger. 
speaker2: who pays for all this?
speaker3: general motors, ford, chevrolet...
speaker2: hey, man - i drive a hybrid.
speaker1: the prince will ask you about your flight, the accommodations...lite subjects. if he offers you the chance to hold his raptors, don't flinch: it's a compliment.
speaker2: what's a raptor?

speaker1: his talons slice bone. 
speaker2: super.

speaker1: that's my most prolific hunter. i'm trying to teach his friends there by example, but i fear it's something you're born with or not. do you agree, mr. ronald? innate or not at all? 
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: what have you seen so far of our kingdom? -- and know i can arrange tours anywhere within our borders.
speaker2: i've seen that the man who planned the worst crime in your kingdom's history is without a doubt saudi...
speaker2: ..and that if you walk 300 kilometers from the compound, you will find a rooftop where the attacks were planned. i've seen that the person in this room "born with it" is right there... everything i just said came from colonel al-ghazi: his observations of the scene while he was protecting us. and i think you're absolutely right sir: that kind of instinct can't be taught: not to falcons. definitely not to sang generals. innate or not at all. you want the murder to stop as much as i do. let us help.

speaker1: colonel al-ghazi, a word. 
speaker2: that was impressive.
speaker3: think it will work?
speaker2: yeah. maybe. i mean, you can only play the "i'm going to the press card" like three more times. so, maybe.
speaker3: they're paranoid and overly self- protective.
speaker4: they aren't protecting anyone. there's no conspiracy. they're just terrified. finally. the saudis have finally seen the monsters they helped create, because those monsters have come home. and if saudis don't catch saudi monsters, that's the end.
speaker4: and that end could come double- quick if they let the us "shaytan" catch those monsters for them. because that's what the saudi on the street suspects: the only thing keeping the royal family upright is american evil.

speaker1: that's dead on accurate. very impressive. that's why they're making it hard on us, and that's why he wants to help `em turn the screws. 
speaker2: they can have every shred of credit-
speaker3: -you see the slums on the way in?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: see that even though their homes are falling down, they had satellite dishes bolted on?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker3: everyone already knows you're here. credit? if the saudis cracked this cell while these servants were pouring coffee, al-jazeera still leads the story with your team.
speaker2: have you been to the crime-scene?
speaker3: no-
speaker2: -if you had, you'd see the evil work of real talent. the kind that doesn't stop until it's forced.
speaker3: and the path to is paved with good intentions.
speaker2: you having fun?
speaker3: beats outta visa-stamping.

speaker1: you're on an island. i hope you know how to get off. 
speaker2: by catching abu hamza.
speaker1: then here's to you. let's bet: when this colonel al-ghazi comes out, he's in-charge of the investigation -if so, you set me up on a date with janet mayes.

speaker1: ... every investigator on-scene by midnight, 50 more portable lights, three more pumps- 
speaker2: do me a favor and tell janet that she and damon schmidt got a date when he gets back to the states.
speaker1: the rules still stand. but tomorrow will be a new day.

speaker1: from now on, any evidence you find you hand over. 
speaker1: i'm "all ears," special agent fleury.
speaker2: we should start with the dead shooters.
speaker1: they had no identification on them. fingerprints and dental have come up empty.
speaker2: can we photograph all three of them? couple hundred copies each...
speaker1: no problem.
speaker2: good. if it's ok with you, i'd like to suggest we split up as follows...

speaker1: a89 ext. blast site - morning a89 sykes climbs down into the mud hole. 
speaker2: fellas, what we want to do is get this water out of here... see what's really going on. understand?
speaker2: c-vin hunting--data plates-- something drivable blew up. that's pretty obvious. feels like anfo to me, boys--ammonium nitrate fuel oil. let's dry this hole and see if we can't figure what she was. gotta pump?

speaker1: got to get a little dirty, people. crawl up in it. make deep contact. you get that? dead, confused stares from the saudis into the mud hole... sykes happy as a pig in 
speaker1: get nasty, dirty, filthy.

speaker1: no, sir. 
speaker2: could you tell me if you recognize any of these men?
speaker3: ...horrible.
speaker1: i don't know any of them.
speaker4: i'm just wondering. that chair out side. looks like it gets a lot of wear. looks comfortable.
speaker1: that my mom's chair.
speaker4: see, that's exactly what i was thinking. i'm guessing she spends a lot of time sitting outside?
speaker1: all day.
speaker4: she must pretty much see it all.
speaker1: she does.
speaker4: where is she?
speaker1: she's sleeping.

speaker1: i've seen him. 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: like, a week ago. twice i've seen him. watering...with the garden crews. i remember he was wearing a liza minnelli t-shirt. i thought that was funny.
speaker2: what about the others?
speaker1: no. just him. i remember the t- shirt. i remember thinking it was odd...?
speaker2: what, the liza minelli shirt?
speaker1: no. i do think liza minelli's gone odd, but that wasn't it.
speaker2: what was odd?
speaker1: he was a saudi. the gardener.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: saudis, like americans, don't do manual labor. blowing leaves is beneath them.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: who is he?
speaker1: that's one of the many things we're trying to find out...

speaker1: how are your sons? 
speaker1: that's the name of a clinical psychologist. works with embassy kids...apparently very good at explaining violence-
speaker2: -what do you know about what my kids need? what they saw? what the rest of their lives might be like?
speaker1: i thought maybe your boys...without their mom anymore...might ask you why sometime...

speaker1: i will find the man responsible for the death of your wife. we're close. 
speaker2: tomorrow it'll be somebody else's wife.
speaker1: then tomorrow i'll come back.
speaker3: the gardener. we know who he is. he's on several watch lists.
speaker1: we know where he lives?
speaker3: we will very soon.
speaker1: you don't seem very excited.
speaker3: these are always the easy ones to catch. rarely does it lead to the planners. i want to take you somewhere.
speaker1: where?
speaker3: to someone who may be able to help us catch hamza.

speaker1: it's a gurney. 
speaker1: who's missing an ambulance?
speaker1: could somebody please go get sergeant haytham?

speaker1: sergeant haytham! 
speaker2: here.
speaker2: who has the keys?

speaker1: you cannot touch any muslims. 
speaker2: no problem. can i still touch americans?
speaker1: of course.

speaker1: what's gas running a gallon out here, al-ghazi? penny gallon? 
speaker2: it was an american. an engineer named karl twitchell. hired by saudi arabia to find water. he didn't find so much as a dried oasis, but he found this. enough oil to turn the earth.
speaker2: they say my country sits on over 1 trillion more barrels of recoverable oil.
speaker3: a trillion reasons for our leaders to hold hands another one hundred years.
speaker2: a trillion reasons to keep fighting. for both sides of this war. i think our oil has begun destroying more than it creates.
speaker3: agreed.

speaker1: i'm 46 years-old. i have three daughters. and i find myself in a place where i no longer care about `why' we are attacked. i only care that 100 people woke up a few mornings ago had no idea it was their last. when we catch the man who murdered these people, i don't care to ask even one question...i just want to kill him...stop him. do you understand? 
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker2: is your first name `colonel?'
speaker1: faris.

speaker1: at one time, talal was arafat's senior bomb-maker and planner in the occupied territories. he joined bin-laden when al qaeda brought the fight to the royal family. 
speaker2: ok. shouldn't we arrest him or shoot him or something?
speaker1: he turned himself in last year during an amnesty. he's now part of a new government effort to balance the experience of saudi youth.
speaker2: this place is community service?
speaker1: if america figures out a way of keeping their kids off the computers please let us know.
speaker2: why did he turn himself in?
speaker1: `you only come after i see there were bombs.

speaker1: did you know bin laden put 5 million-dollars on my head? why shouldn't it be 10?' 
speaker1: the man who made war on al-rahmah is someone my age -- this kind of skill is learned over decades.
speaker1: a man who can plan the mass-murder of women and children, then go home at night to his own and sleep soundly...? that kind of man is supremely difficult to catch.
speaker1: because he hasn't stopped. you stop when their faces don't let you close your eyes...
speaker2: is that why you quit?

speaker1: he says he makes my job easier. here, at least they only fight and kill on computers. 
speaker1: he says that there are several ways to get american military equipment like this detonator but not many men in saudi arabia that know how to get them.
speaker2: how do they get them?
speaker1: usually smuggled from iraq by corrupt soldiers working with the americans.
speaker2: could hamza get this equipment?
speaker1: without question. yes, he could.
speaker3: how do we find him?
speaker1: prayer. luck. handshakes.
speaker3: well, i think i get the `prayer' and `luck' parts... talal slowly stands, al-ghazi helping him up, moves to fleury. reaches his hand out to him, quietly:

speaker1: his hands will feel like this. 
speaker1: every amir at some point gets bitten by his work.

speaker1: whatever this is, it blasted-off like nasa. 
speaker2: driven in at an angle... go deeper...
speaker1: `high-order explosion' doesn't do it justice: what's left a' this looks like it was put through a wood-chipper.
speaker2: hospital identification...

speaker1: do you know this hospital? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: call it in.

speaker1: there's more: i told you it wouldn't be hard to find the soldiers. 
speaker2: what you got?
speaker1: the stolen ambulance had a twenty man crew that rotated shifts on it. we checked all twenty men. one of them, muaath hazmi is now of interest to us.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because this gentleman is fathi hazmi, muaath's brother.

speaker1: where's muaath? 
speaker2: i'm going to show you.

speaker1: we never get to do anything fun. 
speaker2: sykes, i'm guessing you don't even remember how to load your gun.
speaker1: that's not funny.
speaker3: she's not trying to be funny.
speaker1: i'm a very good shot.
speaker2: i'm sure.
speaker4: neighbors clear?
speaker5: yes.
speaker4: activity or communication?
speaker5: snipers have seen nothing. no telephone line into the house.

speaker1: he's gone... this shrapnel look like the stuff you pulled at the morgue? 
speaker2: yeah... i pulled so much it's hard to remember it all.
speaker1: bolts?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: wing nuts?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: razor blades?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: -the front gates of every other western housing compound in riyadh. 
speaker1: and embassies: italy, japan, korea, norway, england...
speaker2: the coalition...
speaker2: these are all countries with troops in iraq -- japanese and italian embassies are under construction?
speaker1: the entire diplomatic quarter is being retro-fitted to sustain bigger bomb blasts.
speaker3: -the prince's convoy just showed.
speaker4: this is you know it. meaningless. there's no leader here. these are kids. that's it.

speaker1: al-ghazi says nothing. 
speaker2: we're out of here.
speaker3: yes, that's it. smile for the cameras, body-bag some children. wrap it up, but us -- out. i get it.
speaker4: i'm sorry.
speaker5: only in death will our enemies realize allah never permits defiance of his almighty will.
speaker6: take the americans inside now and keep them out of sight. you will be spoken to about their presence here.

speaker1: you really ought not look at this. 
speaker2: that fella got shot right through his nipple...
speaker3: don't stare too long. it'll start living in your dreams.
speaker2: no -- i know.
speaker4: you do? how did you know we were here?
speaker2: the prince has men at al-rahmah.
speaker5: what men?
speaker2: ask him. 3 vehicles will stay behind when the prince and press leave. you'll convoy straight to ba flights into dulles -- last minute fares come out of your budget, by-the-by. tried to swing upgrades, but check at the counter.
speaker2: turn those frowns upside down, people. this will be pitched as a stunning saudi-only counter-punch that killed those responsible for al-rahmah. al-jazeera will play up an fbi presence, we'll play up their ties to terror as checkmate. and everyone that was so righteously back home is gonna eat crow.

speaker1: already a rumor that the guy who wrote our state department memo- 
speaker2: -ellis leach?
speaker1: you know him? he's gonna be put out to pasture: made an example of by the president to ensure all levels of government get tough on terror. you won the hand on the river card.
speaker2: we didn't win schmidt. these are teenagers... children with pictures that someone far senior has provided them.
speaker1: -kidding me? you mean those are terrorist targets? holy wow. momma, don't let your children grow up to be cowboys. just get ready to go home and revel in the fact that for the next few weeks your won't stink.
speaker1: double or nothing that's a congratulatory call.
speaker2: hello? yes, sir. we're all here and healthy. i'm sitting next to their corpses but this may not be over. these don't feel like anything resembling senior leadership- -thank you sir. i do.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: amateurs. it's a small win.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: i'm thinking about new york - february 26, 1993. the first time they tried to hit the trade towers.
speaker3: i'm thinking about going straight to dan's, gonna order six pbrs-
speaker4: -pabst?
speaker5: keep it real. you ever drink pbr, haytham?
speaker6: no.
speaker3: any beer?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: now...that's just unreasonable. good police work and problem drinking are like a chicken and egg thing: which enables the other?
speaker3: remember how we caught that cell?
speaker4: yes. car bomb. he went back to pick up his deposit on the rental car.
speaker3: four hundred dollars. for four hundred dollars, he was caught. stupidity. catching the cell was easy. just like this. the cell came back.
speaker3: i'll be back.
speaker5: yes, you will.
speaker5: religious demonstration in progress. back near the city center.

speaker1: i'm serious. beer will open up your subconscious. canned beer especially. give you instincts they can't teach- 
speaker2: is he responding to the call?
speaker3: what?
speaker3: tighten up-

speaker1: you whole? 
speaker2: think so-
speaker3: this is not right!

speaker1: can't release- 
speaker2: hands up -- you're gonna fall-
speaker3: they're going to disappear...

speaker1: a tunnel networks through all these places... they use attached civilian apartments, innocent families. 
speaker2: i do not like these people.
speaker3: we go in the front door. haytham - cover the stairs. janet - hallway. watch the side doors. watch your backs.

speaker1: everybody ok? 
speaker2: there's at least three more of them.
speaker3: it's okay little one.

speaker1: is everyone alright? 
speaker1: it's okay.

speaker1: ...hamza. 
speaker1: i got you. abu hamza, you are under arrest.
speaker2: you are a traitor to your country... a traitor to your
speaker1: i am no traitor to my you are.

speaker1: ...don't... 
speaker1: ...drop it, son...please...
speaker1: you got him. you got him... you got him.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: thank you, lieutenant haytham.
speaker1: may peace be with you.
speaker3: may peace be with all of us, my friend. the two men shake hands.

speaker1: we're going to testify next tuesday. fleury's going first. i'm gonna go through it with each of you one on one in advance - make sure we're all on the same page. if they ask if we've talked about this, the answer is unequivocally "no." ok? you did outstanding work over there. i'm proud of you. you hold your heads high. 
speaker1: ronnie, you ready?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: janet... my dreams are... what did he whisper to you?
speaker3: in the briefing ... to get you to stop crying about fran... before any of this... before we even got airborne? what did he say to you?

speaker1: do you remember? 
speaker2: he said... "we'll kill them all."

speaker1: father and son throwing the ball back and forth. 
speaker2: you stop the people that hurt uncle fran?
speaker2: did you get the bad guys, daddy?
speaker2: there's a lot of bad people out there... aren't there, daddy?
speaker3: yeah, there are... but you want to know something?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: you're not one of them.

