speaker1: no. 
speaker1: i said no.
speaker2: but you don't really mean it.
speaker1: yes i do. keep it in your pants rod.
speaker2: maybe it won't stay in.

speaker1: maybe you better just drive me home. 
speaker2: let me just ask you a serious question first.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: aren't you worried you could die a virgin?
speaker1: yeah. i'm extremely worried about that. it's right up there with global warming.
speaker2: on our way home, a drunken driver could hit us head on and send us flying through the windshield. terminate us instantly. we'd never experience what it means to make love.
speaker1: if sheep don't count.
speaker2: that wasn't me ...
speaker1: i know. i'm kidding you.
speaker2: well i'm trying to be real here and you're mocking me.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but you're not going to die a virgin rod.

speaker1: stop it. 
speaker1: rod!
speaker2: you're being unfair.
speaker1: unfair?!
speaker2: yes. unfair to me.

speaker1: stacy! i'm sorry. 
speaker1: please get back in the car, stacy.

speaker1: rod? 
speaker1: is that you rod?
speaker1: come out rod. this scream bull ain't gonna work with me!
speaker1: rod? you're freaking me out. game's over. i lose. come out and we'll

speaker1: cut it out. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i was supposed to be home fifteen minutes ago.
speaker2: so? you're already late. a few more minutes won't matter.
speaker1: i got to get home.
speaker2: your curfew. most sixth graders can stay out later than you.
speaker1: kenny....
speaker2: you know, maybe we ought to start seeing other people.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: jody, we've been going out for over a year. i love you but i'm all out of patience.

speaker1: it's almost ten o'clock. 
speaker2: daddy you scared me!
speaker1: you're grounded friday night!
speaker2: what? i was at sandy's i just

speaker1: your curfew is 9:30 and you know it, little miss. 
speaker2: it won't happen again.
speaker1: you said that two weeks ago.
speaker2: dad ! most of my friends can stay out until 11 on school nights and 1 on weekends!
speaker1: they're not all the sheriff's daughter. goodnight.

speaker1: hello. one second. hey adolph, it's the station! 
speaker2: hello. what?
speaker2: where?
speaker2: i'm on my way.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: two kids were found mutilated in the woods. lock the door after me.

speaker1: her parents reported her missing about an hour ago. 
speaker2: what kind of a person wakes up in the morning and says to themselves, 'think i'll nail a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'?
speaker1: the same type that decides to carve into her stomach.

speaker1: jody! 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: was stacy raped?
speaker2: i dunno. my dad never came home last night.
speaker1: i bet she was. i heard someone stuffed a tent spike up her ass.
speaker3: gives new meaning to the idea of getting 'nailed'.
speaker1: ha-ha. so funny. sickfuck.

speaker1: yes mr. marliston? 
speaker2: your dad's in the principal's office.

speaker1: you aren't planning to tell these kids that 'virgin' was tattooed into both stacy and rod, are you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: but i am going to have to question
speaker1: fine, just don't mention the carving this is going to be a tough enough day as it is.
speaker2: hi honey.
speaker3: hi daddy. hi mr. sisler.
speaker1: hi jody.
speaker2: i just wanted to check that you were okay?
speaker3: i'm fine. i've just never had someone my age die before.
speaker2: how well did you know stacy and rod?
speaker3: i've been in the same class with stacy for years but we weren't tight or anything.
speaker2: had either of them broken up with someone recently?
speaker3: no. those two were together before kenny and i started hanging out and that's over, what, a year now.
speaker2: i want you to head right home after school.
speaker3: i will. is that all?
speaker1: could you tell mr. marliston we'd like to see him.

speaker1: she leaves. 
speaker2: why'd you send for lenny marliston?
speaker3: the kids adore him. they confide in him. his patchouli reeking rear might know if stacy and rod were really virgins. why didn't you ask jody that?
speaker2: she's my daughter, tom.
speaker3: so?
speaker2: so you just don't point blank ask your teenage daughter about sex.
speaker3: why not? you worried you might find out how much she actually knows?
speaker4: you rang?
speaker3: come in leonard. have you met brent marken?
speaker4: no but i've always wanted to.
speaker2: nice to meet you too. my daughter speaks highly of you.
speaker4: we have the same color eyes.
speaker2: i guess we do.

speaker1: go sit next to him. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: mark shale.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: don't you want to talk to him?
speaker2: i don't watch him eat everyday.
speaker1: you stare at him non-stop, like every lunch. like this. like most people stare at car accidents.
speaker2: the seat behind him is open. come on, i can eavesdrop too.
speaker1: you eventually have to talk to him.
speaker2: why? all my mom and dad ever do is watch each other eat and they've been married for twenty years.
speaker3: jody!
speaker2: no! that's his table.
speaker1: you're going to look really amoebic splitting off from me now. the other three kids look up as jody sits don.
speaker3: did your dad question you this morning?
speaker1: just a little.
speaker4: did he ask you if stacy and rod has ever exchanged bodily fluids?
speaker1: no. why?
speaker3: he asked marliston.
speaker1: if they had ever gone all the way?
speaker4: yeah. chris berringer was parked

speaker1: i wonder why it's so important to know if they fucked? 
speaker2: what i don't understand is why they asked marliston if rod was a virgin. they could have asked you cindy.
speaker1: i never rod.
speaker2: exactly. then he must be a virgin.
speaker1: if i'm so all-used-up ben, why do you try to hook me up non-stop?
speaker2: as if.
speaker3: you're a shitsucking liar!
speaker4: better than being a 'cocksucking' liar!
speaker3: shut your face!
speaker3: he's been telling people....
speaker5: you can tell me all about it in my office. calm down. we're all on edge today. he guides her out.
speaker6: what's up with that?
speaker7: dylan's been telling people that annette gave him a blow job.
speaker6: and she didn't?
speaker2: there's a better chance that he got head from all five spice girls.
speaker6: that's horrible.
speaker1: i think it's funny.
speaker2: me too. i'm going to start telling people that i saw her drop to her knees and latch on to his unit vector.
speaker8: you wouldn't?
speaker2: i would if dylan paid me.

speaker1: what am i supposed to say? 'nice sweater mark'? 'did you buy it at eddie bauer's?' 
speaker2: you could tell him you really liked the way he chews with his back molars.
speaker1: you're so lucky your dad is the sheriff.
speaker2: you are 'sp fucking' wrong.
speaker1: you get to be a little chelsea clinton. everyone wants to meet you. party with you. have with you.
speaker2: but you can't do any of it. so it i always have to 'set an example'.

speaker1: he's just trying to mess with your head. ignore him. 
speaker2: does she
speaker1: i doubt it. who'd want to her. she probably reeks worse than the docks down in those panties.

speaker1: mr. jenkins called on me in class today. it was so embarrassing. i was seriously spaced. i'd been thinking about kenny for over twenty minutes. when i snapped out of it, i looked pathetic. 
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker1: that i was sorry. i'd drifted off. that i'd been thinking about stacy and rod.
speaker3: oh nice save.
speaker1: i was desperate. it was gross.
speaker3: kenny'll come running back. this is just his way of pressuring you.
speaker1: he says he loves me.
speaker3: personally i think he has a deep, almost pathological desire to corrupt you. but i suppose that's a type of love.
speaker1: maybe i should blister through a bottle of tequila and just his brains out.
speaker3: no!
speaker1: you're the one always saying 'just do it'.
speaker3: that was before he pulled this 'dick me or i dump you' i say his best friend.
speaker1: i don't know what i'm so scared of.
speaker3: want to come in for awhile? log onto aol, flirt with some married men, head into a private sandm chat room . . .
speaker1: how do you know what to type back when they start to cyber with you.
speaker3: i keep a couple of my dad's books hidden in my desk for emergency reference.
speaker1: i promised i'd go right home after school.
speaker3: ok. increase the peace.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: i'm lisa sherman. dylan's aunt. he asked me to come talk to you.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: he feels terrible about those things he said to you in school.
speaker1: he should. four guys hit on me today, and not because they find me intellectually stimulating.
speaker2: i think i know how to restore your reputation.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: can i come in? i'll need to use the phone.
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: is jody still awake? 
speaker2: she just turned off her light.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: hi honey.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i have a question to ask you. a personal question.
speaker1: how personal?
speaker2: i need to know how far you and kenny went?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: well, i assume you let him kiss you?
speaker1: well yeah. of course.

speaker1: i'm not criticizing. _ did you two get any further? 
speaker2: a little.
speaker1: how much further?
speaker2: daddy! i don't think this is

speaker1: i wouldn't ask if i didn't have to. 
speaker2: not much further.
speaker1: you never went, uh, all the way?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: ok.
speaker2: daddy, are you upset that i'm still a virgin?!
speaker1: no honey.
speaker2: you are upset.
speaker1: i'm not.
speaker2: i thought you'd be pleased.
speaker1: i am. i'm so very proud of you. go back to sleep.
speaker4: well?
speaker1: she's still a virgin.
speaker4: did you warn her?
speaker1: no. let her get at least one more peacefully night's sleep.

speaker1: if i'd gone public with this yesterday annette michaels might be alive today. 
speaker2: oh brent, is there anything you don't feel guilty about?
speaker1: is there anything you do?
speaker2: focus on the present. you always want to change the past. let's figure out what you are going to tell the parents today, not what you should told them yesterday.
speaker1: i'm going to tell them everything i know. i'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m.
speaker2: you tell these people someone is out there killing virgins and we're going to have a fuckfest on our hands.
speaker1: better than a pile of dead teenagers.

speaker1: i think you all know why i called this town meeting. in the last two days, three of our children have been murdered and it appears that we have now established a common link between the killings. 
speaker2: well, what is it?
speaker1: all three of the victims attended our public high school and all three were or appear to have been...um...virgins.
speaker3: so?
speaker4: you're almost positive that's who this monster is targeting?
speaker3: virgins?
speaker1: we found the word 'virgin' written at both crime scenes.
speaker2: why didn't you tell us this yesterday?
speaker1: we didn't think this was a serial killer. we thought it was an isolated incident. this is all very upsetting to everyone.
speaker5: are you close to an arrest?
speaker1: i can't say we are.
speaker6: what are we supposed to do?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker4: what are we supposed to tell our kids?
speaker6: to go out and get laid if they wanna feel safe?
speaker1: i think that's' up to each and everyone of you.
speaker7: i can't lock my daughter in the basement.
speaker6: i wouldn't worry about it victor.
speaker7: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker6: nothing.
speaker7: what are you saying about my daughter?
speaker6: calm down. i was joking.
speaker7: of a time to be joking about a thing like that you sick bastard!

speaker1: what are we going to do? 
speaker2: sandy, you have to chill out, at least two-thirds of the kids in our class are still virgins.

speaker1: not that many. 
speaker2: you watch. there's going to be a hymen holocaust tomorrow. maybe i'll finally talk to mark shale.

speaker1: i just wanted to offer my services to jody. 
speaker2: your services?
speaker1: i'm willing to help save her life. jody, if you want to come over right now. we could slip up into the attic for a few minutes. there's an old mattress up there...

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: are you jody?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i'm kenny's aunt lisa.
speaker1: kenny's aunt?
speaker2: yes. he asked me to come over and talk to you.
speaker1: on what side of the family?
speaker2: his mother's side.
speaker1: his mother's an only child.

speaker1: it was a she. 
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: she said she was kenny's aunt lisa.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: this will relax her.
speaker2: she's underage.
speaker4: oh my are you ok?
speaker1: someone tried to kill me.
speaker4: the phone just went dead. i called the police and ran right over as fast as i could. sandy is really terrified too.

speaker1: you're wearing a skirt? 
speaker2: bye mom.

speaker1: i'm not you. 
speaker2: you want me to die? i thought you and i were tight.

speaker1: would that impress you? is that what it takes to impress the empress? 
speaker2: your mind is just twisted enough. i believe you'd do all this just to get a dip or two.
speaker3: hi mark, cindy, ben.
speaker4: hi sandy.
speaker1: did you want something? sandy freezes. she doesn't known what to say.
speaker3: yes. i was just curious mark, if you brought a today?
speaker1: you wonder about that everyday sandy?
speaker4: shut up ben. actually, my mom always packs two.
speaker3: you got a great mom. i'm lucky to get a zucchini stick.
speaker4: did you want one?
speaker3: yeah i was talking about twinkies the other day and i realized i hadn't had one in years. then i remembered seeing you with one.
speaker4: they're tasty.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker4: you can have both if you want.
speaker3: no, you keep one.

speaker1: a little larger nose. 
speaker2: how's that?
speaker1: that's her.
speaker2: brent, we got a sketch.

speaker1: you know her? 
speaker2: it can't be.
speaker1: who is she daddy?
speaker2: never mind darling. you go back to school. i don't want you missing anymore classes today.

speaker1: it's lisa sherman. but she still looks like we're eighteen. 
speaker2: that's impossible.
speaker1: i swear to it's her. she told jody she was kenny's 'aunt lisa'. i'm getting this sickly feeling...
speaker2: calm down brent.

speaker1: you were eavesdropping. 
speaker2: no i wasn't.
speaker1: what did you hear?
speaker2: nothing. i just picked up the phone to say goodbye to you. you didn't say goodbye.
speaker1: ok. goodbye. now get back to school.

speaker1: you ok? 
speaker2: fine. are you?
speaker1: hurricane hormone. it's flattened the whole school. guess what?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: mark invited me to the party.
speaker2: what party?
speaker1: shh. ben's party. tonight.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you can't tell your parents.
speaker2: ok.
speaker1: especially not your dad.
speaker2: i won't.
speaker1: it's like a pop your cherry party.
speaker2: you're thinking of sleeping with mark tonight?
speaker1: unless he makes a move during seventh period.
speaker2: didn't you have something a little more romantic in mind for your first time?
speaker1: i kind of like the idea that we can all lose it together, on the same night. it'll be a lot less scary. you have to go.
speaker2: stag?
speaker1: kenny'll want to go with you. cindy's holding a q and a session at the bleachers.
speaker2: i can't right now.
speaker1: jody, you have to go to the party. for your own safety.

speaker1: you all are such hypocrites. all year long you sit on your judgmental little butts and call me the from hell. now you run to me, quaking in fear, begging for advice... 
speaker2: yeah. so?
speaker3: what were we supposed to call you cindy?
speaker4: the from heaven?
speaker5: just answer our questions please?
speaker1: what do you want to know?
speaker5: what to do.
speaker1: you have to do everything boys are totally clueless when it comes to sex. this answer terrifies the audience. cindy it starts with them trying to unhook our bras, fumbling around, and never changes. wait until they try to put their in you.
speaker6: please don't say they need our help with that.
speaker1: always. unless you want them to just poke around endlessly.

speaker1: romeo here asked me if chicks has two holes or three. 
speaker2: i did not.
speaker1: you did so.
speaker2: i was kidding.
speaker3: were not dude.
speaker1: i know it's a total bummer that three kids are dead, but, i'm sorry, this is kind of great.
speaker3: i'm way into this. this may be the best of all possible worlds.
speaker2: no. the killer could be offing chicks who haven't given head.
speaker2: then i'd only have to worry about one.

speaker1: we'll meet someone at the party. 
speaker2: you don't know that.
speaker1: if we don't, we sit back and watch everyone else camel. that's got to be better than hanging at your house.
speaker2: i'm not going.
speaker1: what's that? they walk up.
speaker2: ok. pick me up at seven.

speaker1: are you o.k.? 
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: i heard you got attacked.
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: i was worried about you.
speaker2: yeah. i think it's really sick.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: three of our classmates are dead. that's not really the occasion for a party.
speaker1: nobody wants to be the fourth.
speaker2: did sharon say no?
speaker1: you know i want to go with you.
speaker2: i'm so flattered but i can't.
speaker1: everyone's grounded. there's a killer on the loose.
speaker2: no i'm really grounded. when i got in late the other night, my father was waiting up for me.
speaker1: if you don't want to go with me just say so. say 'kenny, i don't want to make love to you' but don't use your dad as an excuse. i'm so sick of it.
speaker2: i'm not using him as an excuse.

speaker1: i do not. 
speaker2: i feel like i need you dad's permission just to kiss you. jody, it's time to assert yourself to be a big girl. an individual. i'm going to this party tonight. jimmy's my ride. come over to my house after school. we'll go together.
speaker1: i have to go home after school. i have something really important i have to ask my mom.
speaker2: they're not picking me up until six.
speaker1: i'll think about it.
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi, i'm mike stanton.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: hi mom. 
speaker2: hi princess.
speaker1: mom?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i need to ask you something.
speaker2: you can ask me anything.
speaker1: have you ever heard of someone named lisa sherman?
speaker2: lisa sherman?
speaker1: yeah. who is she?
speaker2: i don't know. where did you hear that name.
speaker1: i overheard daddy mentioning her to someone. i he thinks she's the killer.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: that's what he said. 
speaker2: did he say anything else about her?
speaker1: no but he got really weird. like i've never seen him act.
speaker2: i've never heard of her. maybe something else was on his mind.
speaker1: no. i think she lived her a long time ago. like twenty-eight years ago. when dad was eighteen.
speaker2: not that i know of.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: the library. i'll be fine.
speaker3: what's the address? thanks.
speaker4: you found her?
speaker3: there's a lisa shermer living just sixty miles west of here. over the indiana border. i'm going.
speaker4: we need you here. i can bring her in.
speaker3: no. i'll handle this.

speaker1: sir, we're getting calls from other towns. boys throughout the country have heard about what's going on here and they're heading our way, apparently, looking for girls. 
speaker2: put a squad car at every entrance to town. the desk sergeant picks up another call.
speaker3: your wife's on line three.
speaker2: i can't talk to her now.
speaker3: there's a problem with jody.
speaker2: tell her she has to handle it.
speaker4: as bizarre as it may sound, seems someone is planning to have a big party tonight.
speaker2: no?
speaker4: should we close down any eruption?
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker4: we're seeing all the signs in town.
speaker2: i like the idea of all the kids in one place. if it happens, just keep a man outside until you hear from me. i'll be back in a couple of hours.

speaker1: hi jody. what can i do for you? 
speaker2: hi miss dunlop. where do you keep the old town papers?
speaker1: they're all on microfiche.
speaker2: twenty eight years ago.
speaker1: follow me.

speaker1: this place is empty. 
speaker2: everyone's getting ready for the party.
speaker1: you heard about that?
speaker2: of course. no one ever shuts up in the libary. kids were whispering about it all day.
speaker1: don't you think it's sick?
speaker2: not at all. in fact, i thought about going.
speaker1: you miss dunlop?
speaker2: unfortunately i qualify.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you're sweet. i really wish someone had thrown a party like that when i was your age. my life might have been very different.
speaker3: cut to:
speaker1: is that you miss dunlop?
speaker1: who's there?
speaker1: mom? you were spying on me.
speaker4: i want you to come home with me right now, jody.
speaker1: who is she?
speaker4: she's nobody you should be concerned with.
speaker1: whoever tried to kill me was made up to look exactly like this picture of lisa sherman, clothes and all. i think that concerns me.
speaker4: don't make me order you.
speaker1: you going to drag me out and me in my room until i go to college?
speaker4: if i have to. please let me protect you.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i'm not leaving. i want to know why you and dad are so freaked out. three of my classmates are dead.

speaker1: years ago, something horrible happened in this town. when i was still in high school. a girl named elizabeth sherman was attacked by four drunken seniors. 
speaker2: attacked how?
speaker1: she was raped. at least that's what she claimed.
speaker2: you didn't believe her?
speaker1: no, i believed her. she was in pretty bad shape. inside and out. but the boys were never formally charged.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: they were children of our leading citizens, stars of the football team. and she was a loner. an angry girl that no one really liked. she'd called them 'queers'.
speaker2: people thought these guys had a right to her because she called them 'queers'?
speaker1: they were proving to her they weren't. they were very drunk. things were different back then. you think kids are sexually bottled up today....
speaker2: and the police did nothing?

speaker1: how could you? 
speaker2: i don't know. we just did. i guess i was kind of scared going against the gain. against the whole town.
speaker1: the word is mob.
speaker2: i've regretted it ever since. never run with the herd just because they're the herd.
speaker1: who were they?
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the men. do any of them still live around here?
speaker2: two men left town right after it happened.
speaker1: you're not telling me something.
speaker2: mr. sisler was one of them.
speaker1: the principal?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: who was the fourth?
speaker2: it's like everything that was ever repressed in this town is suddenly bubbling up through the ground.
speaker1: dad?
speaker1: that's why he called mr. sisler first.
speaker2: not a day has gone by where your father has not torn himself to shreds for what happened. we both have...

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: i'm looking for lisa sherman.
speaker1: she's not here.
speaker2: you know where i can find her?
speaker1: st. michael's.
speaker2: she works at a church?
speaker1: she resides there. out back. she died a year and a half ago.
speaker2: of what?
speaker1: a bullet to the right cerebellum.
speaker2: she was murdered?
speaker1: no. she ate a pistol for lunch one day.
speaker2: can you describe her? how old was she?
speaker1: i never met the woman. i'm just taking care of the place until they sell it.
speaker2: can you get inside?
speaker1: i can.
speaker2: i knew lisa sherman long ago. it's extremely important that i get inside and try to verify that it's the same woman who lived here.
speaker1: i don't give a what your reasons
speaker3: jody! yes! you're here.
speaker4: what's the matter?

speaker1: is there a picture of her somewhere? 
speaker2: no pictures. no mirrors. was she a crazy woman when you knew her?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: couldn't tell she going to off herself, huh?
speaker1: no, you couldn't.
speaker2: i've been in a lot of people's houses and this one's the creepiest.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. you should check downstairs.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: people always keep their secrets in their attics or in their basements. all the weirdness in this house took place in the basement.
speaker2: they look like they'd fit you. three bucks.

speaker1: all our parents are weirdoes. i think my dad is into hookers. i know he lit cats on fire when he was a kid. 
speaker2: my dad acts like he's johnny perfect and he's really johnny rapist.
speaker1: i think this is a big part of growing up. it's losing your spiritual virginity. it's when you finally discover that your parents aren't anything they told you they were. they're even bigger hypocrites than your friends.
speaker2: i can't believe i listened to one word of his
speaker1: but if he'd been sent to jail, there would be no jody.
speaker2: so i should feel happy that he got away with it?
speaker1: i don't know. i kind of am.
speaker1: are you coming to the party?
speaker2: let's just start a party right here, right now.

speaker1: what's wrong? am i doing something wrong? 
speaker2: just making me feel like a piece of meat.
speaker1: i'm making you feel like meat?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you break up with me because i won't you.
speaker2: that's not why we broke up.
speaker1: you flaunt some in my face.
speaker2: sharon's far from a slut.
speaker1: and when i finally agree to spread my legs, you accuse me of treating you like meat.
speaker2: jody, you're only doing this to get back at your dad. it doesn't have that much to do with me.
speaker2: please don't go. please. stay, we'll just talk. then go to the party.
speaker1: this party is sick.
speaker2: jody. wait.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm scared. three kids are dead. i want to go to this party.
speaker1: then go to the party. run with the herd kenny. just don't spew out all that 'be an individual, assert yourself' anymore.

speaker1: i know where you're going. 
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: your brother told us.
speaker2: daddy....
speaker1: shh. i'm not going to tell you not to go.
speaker2: you're not?
speaker1: no. i couldn't do that. i have something for you.

speaker1: there's jan and heather. let's grab them quick before someone else does. 
speaker2: ok.
speaker1: hide your laptop here.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you can't bring it.
speaker2: i'm not leaving it here.
speaker3: marisa! find someone fast. floor space is almost gone.
speaker2: ever play quake?
speaker4: what's that?
speaker2: a computer game.
speaker5: i get all your cds.
speaker6: not my imports.
speaker5: ok not your imports. all your other cds and your k2 snowboard.
speaker6: that's an awful lot for ten minutes of beasting?
speaker5: don't flatter yourself. you'll be lucky to last ten seconds with me ben.

speaker1: are you o.k.? 
speaker2: i'm ok.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: you don't look ok.
speaker2: i am.
speaker4: my house is just a couple of blocks away. why don't you come on over and clean those cuts up.
speaker2: ok. should i put my bike in the back of your car?
speaker4: can you just follow me?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: you aren't going to the party? 
speaker2: you know about that too?

speaker1: of course. you're not scared? 
speaker2: of course i'm scared.
speaker1: then you should go.
speaker2: you think i should go to the party, mr. marliston?
speaker1: i really do. for your own safety.
speaker2: i just feel so manipulated. by everyone. my dad, my boyfriend, and now some psychopath i don't even know.
speaker1: we're all manipulated. from the moment
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yes. we have no real freedom. you of all people should understand that. this may sting.
speaker2: me? why me?
speaker1: because of your father. the way what his sins shaped you.
speaker2: what do you know about my father?
speaker1: he's a rapist. like mine.
speaker2: _ your father raped someone?
speaker1: lisa sherman was my mother.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i was born nine months after she was raped. one of the four men who raped her is my father. i have no idea which one.
speaker2: you're the killed.
speaker1: yes that's the whole point. this is what i was put on this earth to do. the town that raped my mother. steal its pristine innocence like it stole hers. i've planned this since i was a very little boy. you have no real freedom either. your father has cast a shadow that you've never eluded.

speaker1: you're so beautiful. 
speaker2: so are you.
speaker1: now don't be nervous.
speaker2: you're the one who's hand is shaking.
speaker3: hey! that was a 3k machine.
speaker4: told you to hide it.

speaker1: one more time. 
speaker2: i get the imports.
speaker1: ok!

speaker1: you ok? 
speaker2: just thinking about something.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: there's going to be very few virgins left in school on monday. it could be really dangerous for them if the killer isn't caught.
speaker1: i guess so. luckily we won't have that problem.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i got to go.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm worried about someone.
speaker1: you can't just leave me here.
speaker3: stay put sharon. i'll hop on over when i'm done here.
speaker4: you will not!
speaker2: jody was right, this party is sick.

speaker1: 'it's a family affair, it's a family affair.' 
speaker1: well, we may be family one in four chance.
speaker1: sheriff brent, you will be the second of the four horsemen of the apocalypse to die. but first you will watch as i slice up your little girl.
speaker1: you're shaking too much. if you don't stop shaking jody, i'll have to kill before i carve. we wouldn't want that.

speaker1: my mother said, after you and your 
speaker1: open your eyes brent. watch. or will i cause her much more pain.

speaker1: my wallet's on the mantle when you've finished your rifling, kenny. 
speaker2: oh, hey mr. marliston. w-what's jody's bike doing on your front porch?
speaker1: that all depends kenny. depends on why the you've broken into your history teacher's house?
speaker2: alright, marliston, i know she's here.

speaker1: help! 
speaker2: that was jody!
speaker1: somebody help!
speaker2: jody?!
speaker3: jody run!
speaker1: no!
speaker3: run!

speaker1: my dad's down there! 
speaker2: he's dead! we've got to get the out of here!
speaker1: i can't walk. i think he cut right through a tendon.

speaker1: go to the police station! 
speaker2: deputy webber's at the party. it's only three blocks away.
speaker1: it's him.

speaker1: we just found another body. 
speaker2: who's?
speaker1: tom sisler. he was murdered at school. two kids went into his office to and they found him, with his tongue cut out and his foot jammed into his mouth. killer also chopped off his and stuffed it in his pencil holder.
speaker2: any word from brent?
speaker1: nope. the switchboard is lightning up downtown. kids from other towns are starting to congregate in the parks and at the high school. it's turning into woodstock except there's no concert.
speaker2: call brent on the horn. see where he is. what he wants us to do. i'll head over to the school.
speaker1: ok.
speaker2: don't leave this party until you hear from me.
speaker1: but i shouldn't shut it down?
speaker2: no. hell, it's the quietest party i've ever seen.

speaker1: thanks for coming back for me. 
speaker2: i love you.

speaker1: brent? come in brent. 
speaker1: christ had in his soup, marliston, what'd you do, eat out a pizza or something? what the happened to your face?
speaker2: hey, look, elvis.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: you really are a rube.
speaker2: 'family affair. oh yes it's a family affair'.

speaker1: oh it's him! 
speaker2: quick! in the house. he won't look for us in there.

speaker1: yeah. get lost we're packed. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: pretend we're just another couple.

speaker1: hey! turn that off. 
speaker2: mr. marliston?!
speaker3: hi samantha. excuse me.

speaker1: it's him. 
speaker2: pay no attention to me.
speaker3: what are you doing here?
speaker4: he's looking to get laid.
speaker5: mr. marliston?
speaker3: you me up!
speaker2: what?
speaker3: you gave me a 'd'.
speaker2: i'm sure you should have failed.
speaker3: i was grounded for two months because of you!
speaker6: jimmy leave him alone! he's imbalanced.
speaker2: please get out of my way or i'll have to hurt you.
speaker3: i knew you were a pervert. always wearing those doofy glasses, and driving a station wagon.
speaker6: he's dangerous jimmy!
speaker3: so am i! i'm gonna rip your off marliston!
speaker2: touchã©'

speaker1: please! you wouldn't kill your sister, would you? 
speaker2: you think you're my sister?

speaker1: we have the same color eyes. 
speaker2: you're right. we do.

speaker1: he's still got the blade! 
speaker2: come on! it's him up time!
speaker3: come on. lets get out of here.

speaker1: j-jody. p-please help me. please. 
speaker2: it's all over now.

