speaker1: klute. with a k. k - l - u - 
speaker2: are you with plant security, sergeant?
speaker1: town police.
speaker2: then how are you involved?
speaker1: i know tom grunemann.
speaker2: you knew the subject thomas grunemann. how well?
speaker1: we grew up together. kids.
speaker2: can you account for his disappearance in any way?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: did he recently appear to you agitated or depressed? -- indicates no -- did he voice to you grievance or discontent with his research work here? indicates no. moral or sexual problems or peculiarities? --
speaker1: no.
speaker2: marital problems in general? indicates possibly -- am i right sergeant?
speaker1: everybody's got some, i guess.
speaker2: did he ever mention specifically a girl or woman in new york?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: examine this letter please. we recovered that from the shredder -- the plant disposal and incinerator system. grunemann apparently typed it friday, before he left, decided not to send it, tossed it away. we've already contacted the new york police; they think they know the girl in question.

speaker1: my husband was not like that! my klute. 
speaker2: it looks like he sent her quite a few of those holly -- the girl -- she recalls six or seven letters like --
speaker1: -- no. i mean sure a little rough stuff, but just what people usually -- no, i would've said we were pretty good. johnnie i don't understand. i just don't understand. klute nods. she is talking for both of them. klute looks out the window to the children playing outside. camera pans out window to klute's pov of children playing on a cold winter day. the trees are stripped bare.

speaker1: -- has disclosed no evidence of crime or criminal intent within the jurisdiction of this bureau, and since subject thom -- 
speaker2: it's been almost a year! tom grunemann's been missing for a year. and all the fbi has to offer is a report that must bore even you.
speaker1: well sir.
speaker3: are you closing the case?
speaker1: no sir, we don't state that. we're countin --
speaker2: but you don't find it worth much effort.
speaker1: well mr. cable, you've got me here from the bureau. you got lieutenant trask here from new york representing his department and i don't frankly consider --
speaker3: why couldn't you ever find out anything from the girl?
speaker1: trask --
speaker4: we first hold her under surveillance expectin your boy grunemann to show up there. didn't. then we bagged -- we arrested her on a cp charge, convicted, two month's women's city prison, offer to reduce sentence, she cooperated. four interrogations. she thought she remembered grunemann -- from those letters from before, she made that connection -- but she hadn't seen him since and couldn't identify his photograph and she --
speaker3: why not?
speaker4: oh a good call girl, she'll turn six-seven hundred tricks a year. the faces get blurred. and since then, recent months, she's reported several, you know, incidents: like breather calls, anonymous phone calls, also somebody maybe following her, watching her, things like that. so it's i guess you could say, conceivable grunemann's still around there, just hangin around her, spooking her. but you know, that --
speaker1: the subject got emotionallv disturbed; he just dropped out.
speaker3: inspector we understand your position; ours is a little different. we have an investment in tom grunemann. the company has an investment, and we feel entitled to investigate for ourselves.
speaker1: private investigation, you mean. yes sir, of course you're entitled, and there's some very competent --
speaker3: klute offered us his services; we've accepted.
speaker3: klute knew tom. he has a great many ideas about the case --
speaker1: yes sir, we know he --
speaker3: we'd expect him to work in cooperation with you. he'd report to each of you and to our company's new york office, to pete -- pete goes there on a regular schedule back and forth, and --
speaker1: mr. streiger, speaking frankly -- we've appreciated the sergeant's interest you know, all along. here, locally. but new york, that's - well --
speaker4: ever done any missing person's work?
speaker1: spent much time in the city? you see, i have to wonder -- speaking frankly; the sergeant knows i'm only speaking frankly -
speaker2: you wonder why we thought of klute?

speaker1: -- honey you make it look a little real. it should have, you know, that fun to it. 
speaker2: strangle him to death funny?
speaker1: well we go from this into stomach diagrams. it can't be too -- look let's try it again from -
speaker1: no -- just give us the faces at the end, would you?
speaker1: -- and another family saved by elso tablets. ok -- thank you very much. -- and holds out his hands for their scripts, at the same time as he summons from a list in his other hand --
speaker1: pierce -- danner -

speaker1: bree daniel, any messages? ok, thanks. 
speaker1: trina? bree. do i? oh no, just a commercial i thought i might get, that's all. well i'd take a quick thirty, hon. do you have a commuter for me? wait.

speaker1: hullo. 
speaker1: ooh, i knew i'd like you.

speaker1: --r - w - m, radio's voice is the shippensburg valley, on a beautiful clear warm thurs -- -- to -- 
speaker2: -- tucky wonder beans picking up a half cent over yesterday's price at- -- and cut to --

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: miss daniel? my name is klute -- john klute --
speaker2: can i talk to you?
speaker1: what about?
speaker2: my name's john klute.
speaker1: you said that.
speaker2: i'm an investigator. i'd like to ask you some questions about tom grunemann.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: tom grunemann. he wrote you some letters.
speaker1: gee.
speaker2: he was a research engineer at the tuscarora laboratories in pennsylvania. he disappeared from there last april. i've been hired to look for him.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: you know what i'm talking about.
speaker1: honest?
speaker2: will you let me ask you some questions?
speaker1: dew yew hayuv ah-dentifikyshun? he takes out a folded letter and a wallet and passes them both through to her. silence. she examines them with care, then appears to soften a little; even smiles slightly.
speaker1: you're not police or fbi; you're just a private investigator?
speaker2: mm.
speaker1: and you just want to ask me a few questions?
speaker2: mm.

speaker1: -- and i take acting classes with lee tainter -- 
speaker2: -- lee, yes --
speaker1: -- and i was in two of his workshop type productions, uncle vanya and the girl in five characters -- -- here -- and then of course i have the modeling and the demonstrator work, the trade-fair work -- but naturally i feel ready for something more, well you know, sustain --
speaker2: well, thanks very much for coming in.
speaker1: thank you very much.

speaker1: what you lookin' to get from her? you think she's got grunemann hid somewhere, the attic, feedin him soup? or maybe he's hidin in a dark alley and he'll jump on her and you jump on him. and third place, even if she does know somethin' she's right, she don't have to talk to you. you don't have police power, you can't make her. 
speaker2: that's a lot of people to die unknown.
speaker1: unknown, unidentified and unwanted. and there's more every day man, there's more everyday.
speaker3: bree daniel. yeah, hi hon.

speaker1: -- comes in with these other yulds maybe two or three times a year, and five big ones baby, just one evening. 
speaker2: marta, thanks, and i'd love to party with you hon, but --

speaker1: bree daniel -- 
speaker2: oh baby, oh i really love you.
speaker1: that's nice; who is this?
speaker2: i really love you baby, you know that?
speaker2: hello? hello? oh my hello?

speaker1: bree daniel. 
speaker2: bree -- frank hanley, you remember, fayetterville?
speaker1: oh yeah, hi frank, sure.
speaker2: well i'm in town, like to see you.
speaker1: well frank that's awful nice but i'm out of action, sort of, you know --

speaker1: -- usual case history -- this isn't a medical confidence, it's all of them -- broken family, lonely, confused, crummy childhood, early promiscuity, formal prostitution beginning in her teens, income twenty-five to thirty thousand a year. oh they don't keep the money: they get rid of it, they get pimps. why? why do you want to know all this? 
speaker2: i want to know how tom grunemann got mixed up in it.
speaker1: not unusual.
speaker2: did she talk about him to you?
speaker1: about his letters -- that's all she remembered. quite violent material, i'd say, obsessive, a quite sick man. but that's not unusual either.
speaker2: has she talked with you since prison?
speaker1: no. she had every good intention of it -- coming to me as a private patient, getting out of the life, devoting herself to an acting career.
speaker2: i think she's trying that.
speaker1: oh sure they try. the idea of a better life. but they don't really know much about life: they get confused -- or scared or frustrated or bored -- they pop back to the one thing they can handle. the trick. the trick. men in bed. not men in general, not life, not love, not even real -- it avoids all that. just the trick, the transaction.

speaker1: you scared me, mr. faber. 
speaker2: good material, not too good cut. i'd do better for you.

speaker1: oh thank you. he sits in the chair opposite, sips his wine. 
speaker2: enjoy. well --
speaker1: it's good to see you. well -- could we do it first and then just talk?
speaker2: sure dear, yes.
speaker1: well -- well i'm just back. and -- i must tell you -- something quite wonderful.
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: and cannes was quite fun, quite; and we played baccarat and chemindefer and there was a nice little italian marquis quite enthusiastic for me -- but a young man can be so silly --
speaker2: mm.
speaker1: and then one night -- at the gaming tables -- well i just saw him. a stranger -- looking at me -- and i knew suddenly that all my life i'd been --
speaker1: -- may i? it's so --
speaker2: please --
speaker1: not young; he wasn't young -- gray at the temples, he -- well actually he looked like you.
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: and nobody could tell me who he was -- an exiled prince or a mercenary or a bullfighter or -- but i felt it stirring inside me, this -- this wild, pagan feeling --

speaker1: oh you bastard. 
speaker1: is it the shakedown hon? you picked a loser, i just don't have it.
speaker2: no, i'm look --
speaker1: if i was taking calls full time would i be living in this kip? i'd be back on park avenue; i could support the whole national guard!
speaker2: could i ask some questions?
speaker1: or you'll get me shoved back in the brig you mean; another month with the bull-dykes.

speaker1: they showed me that one. i understand it's grunemann, but i told them, i just don't remember. 
speaker2: tom grunemann, elaine grunemann, two daughters.

speaker1: company outing or picnic or something like that. 
speaker2: isn't that sweet. well it could be any one of them bubi; i get to see them all. she separates from klute, around the table . klute puts photo aside, prepares to take notes, as she pleads --
speaker2: look -- please -- will you just try to get it from my side? a year ago. i was in the life fulltime. i was living on park with leather furniture and a million dresses. then they dropped on me, the fuzz, they caged me -- they started asking me about a man, some man, i'm supposed to have seen a year before that. two years ago, two. he could be in yemen! she waits for klute to respond -- he doodles
speaker2: a name. grunemann. nothing. and they showed me pictures like this and they meant nothing. then they asked me, well had i been getting letters, from someone out there in cabbageville --
speaker1: -- tuscarora --
speaker2: all right, yes, i had been. those sick, wild letters -- i'm watching you, gonna follow you, gonna punish you, kill you et cetera. well, they said, all right that's grunemann. so try to remember when you and he - when -- well i don't know, there was that dumper once, he sounded like that dumper -- dumpers; they get their kicks beating you up. a man hired me once, then tried to really kill me - that'd be about two years ago.
speaker2: ok tommy-baby, allie-allie-in-free kid, i got the gumdrops.
speaker2: you remind me of my uncle.
speaker1: what? what do you remember about that -- dumper?
speaker2: nothing. except he wasn't kidding. usually it's a fakeout, you probably know. they pretend to tie you up, and you wear a dress with a cloth belt and they pretend to whip you or you -- it's their money. i'll hang from the shower rod and whistle maytime. except this guy was really tripped out on it; he --
speaker1: but you can't say that dumper was tom grunemann.
speaker2: i can't say he was anybody!
speaker2: so -- ok -- that's all?
speaker2: well could i have them back now hon? -- those tape recordings you've got downstairs -- ok? -- and if you want you can have a good time and i'll have a good time and--
speaker1: what about everything since?
speaker1: everything that's happened since tom grunemann disappeared. the phone calls and the --
speaker2: just phone calls, right? they ring, you answer, they don't say anything, just blank. kids getting kicks. burglars looking for an empty apartment. i mean there is nothing that proves --
speaker1: what about the other things you've reported? -- -- being followed on the --
speaker2: look -- i'm sorry -- i've led everybody wrong. i mean yes, i get those feelings, but that's just me, that's just feelings. i'm sure this will amuse you; i'm scared of the dark. and sometimes i get shook up, i hear people or -- well, i'll come out in the morning and think someone's been prying at my mailbox, or there's a little -- trash outside my door and i wonder if someone left it there for -- do you see? -- things other people wouldn't even notice. well that's not real, it's just nerves; it's got nothing to do with --
speaker2: bree daniel. oh yes, ted carlin, how is ted? oh, well, thank you very much but maybe the next time you're in town? well i just love ted and i'd love to meet you -- you have a very nice voice -- but i just -- well i'm having a chat with a very nice cop. actually not a real cop; he's a private inves -- a buzzing from the phone; the connection abruptly broken. she hangs up, recites.
speaker1: is that how you get most of your dates? someone gives your name to someone else?
speaker2: most of them.
speaker1: is that how you met the dumper? -- someone else gave --
speaker2: how would i remember?
speaker1: how else do you meet them? pimps?
speaker2: you're very square. pimps don't get you dates, cookie; they just take the money. klute takes up the slip of paper previously given him by trask. in the same manner as before --
speaker1: i have some names the police gave me. frank ligourin. will you tell me what --
speaker2: look, i'm sure this'll amuse you too. ilia trying to get away from all that.
speaker1: what about the old gentleman the other night, mr. faber?
speaker2: you saw that, you? you saw it? he's seventy. his wife's dead. he started cutting garments at fourteen. his whole life, he's maybe had a week's vacation, i'm all he has and he never, never touches me, and what harm in it, what -- she chokes -- then goes on --
speaker2: klute, tell me, what's your bag? are you a talker, or a button man or a doubler, or maybe you like them very young -- children -- or get your chest walked around with high-heeled shoes, or have us watch you tinkle? or --

speaker1: -- you want to wear women's clothes, or you get off ripping things -- 
speaker1: -- you perverted hypocrite square bastards.

speaker1: gee i hope this doesn't make my cold any worse. 
speaker2: tell me about frank ligourin.
speaker1: mm? oh, he was my old man. we broke up. she wanders away toward a bureau. her shirt seems to itch her; she scratches her ribs. then opens drawer, takes out a different shirt as --
speaker2: when?

speaker1: mind not doing that? 
speaker2: what? this?

speaker1: i thought you could trick me for those tapes. don't you get lonely in that little green room? or let me get you someone; i have terrific friends, wild. 
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: gee. i've had men pay two hundred dollars for me -- here, you're turning down a freebie. you can get a perfectly good dishwasher for that.
speaker1: you've changed your mind? you do want to play?
speaker2: i don't want you to look up. there's someone on the skylight. she gasps, terrified -- immediately -- almost beyond control. he taps the pencil on his notes.
speaker2: easy -- pretend you're looking here- -- here.
speaker2: now i'm going to walk around -- you just keep talking, straight through, straight through.
speaker2: tell me about acting -- what are you doing tomorrow -- where do you go?
speaker1: i go on rounds.
speaker2: rounds, what are they? -- don't watch me, keep talking.
speaker1: you go see agents -- or equity calls, open casting calls. and ad agencies -- commercials -- you don't get work, you just go around.
speaker1: and they're always polite -- show people -- they say thank you very much. you lie there covered with blood, smiling, they say --

speaker1: i couldn't get him. 
speaker1: it's all right.
speaker2: well do you think it was him?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: can't you get him?
speaker1: maybe, if you tell me the things you haven't.
speaker2: you asked me where i got that date with the dumper -- frank sent me on it.
speaker1: do you know where he got the dumper?
speaker2: he never told me.
speaker1: well, let's go down and ask him.

speaker1: what did you expect? frankie still has a good string, three girls. figure three hundred a week from each. 
speaker2: is that what you gave him?

speaker1: frank -- klute. 
speaker2: hi. come in. i was just catching up some work -- mocking up the photographs. i used to be a photographer myself - bree tell you? -- before i got in the publishing.
speaker1: frank, he knows you're a pimp. he knows you were my pimp.
speaker2: well bree, maybe you'd rather --

speaker1: how's it been? 
speaker1: with me bree it's eternally the same. toward you. i guess you know that.
speaker2: yeah frank, i know that.

speaker1: i've always respected bree. i'd like to make something clear. 
speaker2: i've just got a few --
speaker1: i'd like to make something clear. i don't go after a girl; a girl comes to me. her choice. right?
speaker2: i'm looking for a man. tom grunemann. bree thinks he may have been the dumper -- that call she had two years ago. she says you sent her on it.
speaker1: two years ago? sorry.
speaker2: they tell me you use narcotics. could i bring someone around to look at your arms?
speaker1: look -- dad -- i may stand better with the cops than you.
speaker1: ok, a family matter. between the girls. i had two other cows -- -- two other girls besides bree.
speaker2: she told me.
speaker1: ok and one of them jane mckenna -- she blows a little jealous of bree - you know? -- bree comes first? and evidently she knew the freak --- that he was a dumper -- she conned me into passing him to bree, you know, so bree'd get hurt. i didn't know. till afterwards.
speaker2: why didn't you tell bree, afterwards?
speaker1: you don't tell them. that one of their own in-laws laid a dumper on them? peace in the family. beyond that, i don't know. all she wrote.
speaker2: i'd like to talk with jane mckenna.
speaker1: would i be telling you all this? she copped out long ago. she committed suicide baxter.

speaker1: did you like my friend frankie? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: didn't he tell you what you wanted?
speaker2: it didn't go anywhere. but that's not why --
speaker1: about the dumper, didn't he tell you that?
speaker2: it was jane mckenna who sent you the dumper.
speaker1: well -- she's dead. at the corner he slows, starts unzipping his bookcase as if indicating a change of route.
speaker1: i thought you were going back to the apartment.
speaker2: you said you wanted these.
speaker1: oh golly, oh just what i've always dreamed of, dirty phone calls. how come?
speaker2: you told me what you could. i guess i'm through with your part of it.
speaker1: is there anything more i could --
speaker2: i don't see anything, do you?
speaker1: what're you gonna do next?
speaker2: try some other ways.
speaker1: what do i do meanwhile? -- wait for that clown to fall through the skylight on me?
speaker2: and i don't think that was tom.
speaker1: you said it was!
speaker2: no, i said what did you think.
speaker1: oh -- wait -- oh i get it. you said that just to keep me scared. so i'd tell you everything i -- oh clever; oh you smart, tricky hick.
speaker2: well --
speaker1: hey, but did we get to you, klute?
speaker2: yeah, you got to me.
speaker1: -- us city folks? the sin, the glitter, the wickedness?
speaker2: oh. no. not that way. i'd say it was more -- i don't know -- -- too bad? pathetic?
speaker1: goodbye.

speaker1: what the do you mean, pathetic? 
speaker2: it's kind of late.
speaker1: it got lonely upstairs. there's someone on the roof.
speaker1: oh, don't be a doo-doo.
speaker2: not much point to this, is there?
speaker1: ezra, i'm lots better than you're used to. tell me -- the other night, watching me with mr. faber -- wasn't your tongue a little bit hanging out?
speaker2: mm.
speaker1: so you're not too different from him, or the chap on the roof, or tommy-baby --
speaker1: look, if you don't use it somebody else just will. and you've done your whole bit with me, your entire duty, and so now this is my thing. so enjoy, mr. faber would say, enjoy.
speaker2: bree -- thanks -- i don't want to.
speaker1: oh don't be all hypocrite. or do you really like other kicks? is it more just having power over someone? -- so you don't really need to --

speaker1: -- triumphantly, contemptuously, orgiastically -- 
speaker2: oh lover -- oh you thrill me -- oh, it's beautiful -- oh yes, yes -- oh like that, like that, yes --

speaker1: what's the matter hon? you were great. terrific. a tiger. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: well what're you down about? you mean because you didn't get me there? you can't expect that. i mean frank, yes, he'd get me there all the time -- but never with a john.
speaker1: and i'm sorry i can't stay and learn your special little games. and i certainly don't want you to feel bad about this -- losing your virtue all of a sudden -- because i sort of knew you would. as i said, like everyone, right?
speaker1: besides - you can always tell yourself you made me come downstairs. ta, luv.
speaker1: -- why?

speaker1: why -- please, why? -- why lose, why look? why hate and give and want and love? why get, grieve, g -- 
speaker2: thank you very much.
speaker1: -- gug -- gug --
speaker1: why? -- i want to know what.
speaker2: no, that was very good everybody.
speaker3: booth -- osman -- zuff -- anjeris chaka. wider, near stage front. bree shrugs, steps down off stage with the others. bree finds jang's hand out for her script, smiles wanly, turns it over, continues on out of scene. she finds something - someone -- impeding her way.

speaker1: you asked if there was anything more you could help me with. 
speaker2: when?
speaker1: i've checked the records of jane mckenna's death -- i can't get anything special. but frank ligourin had another girl you said, besides mckenna and you.
speaker2: arlyn page.
speaker1: did she and jane mckenna know each other?
speaker2: frankie kept them in the same apartment: it cut his travel-time.
speaker1: then maybe arlyn page knew the dumper too.
speaker2: arlyn had a very big habit - heroin - she's the one who started frank. she's strung out now; you won't find her.
speaker1: you could help me find her. you know the people. i'll pay you a hundred dollars.
speaker2: i can make that in a lunch break! look, hiram, you're sure it isn't just me? -- you decided you liked it, after all, the other night; you'll hang around for seconds?
speaker1: don't worry.

speaker1: joanie -- mike, hi -- hi pat. 
speaker2: hey bree honey, who you got?
speaker1: a new daddy. i'n he cute?

speaker1: trina this is klute. i told you about him. 
speaker2: oh yes mr. klute -- won't you both join me? and how do you like our fair city? there's so much here don't you think? the museums and the books and the foreign films -- bree, have you seen the godard film?
speaker1: uh uh.
speaker2: oh you've got to. he does such fun things with imagery. and i've been reading the fall -- -- the fall by ahlbair camoo -- it's the same thing, you know the imagery --
speaker1: trina honey, he just wants to find arlyn page.
speaker2: why? she's a junkie.
speaker1: she was with you after she left frank.
speaker2: well she's not now. i did everything for arlyn. i loved arlyn i took her right into my apartment, my own sweet apartment on first. but she wouldn't stay off it -- the junk -- and i wept and i pleaded and i held her in my arms - and she started taking things, my things, and selling them for horse. my clothes. we could've had everything together, everything -- and then the sold my mink!

speaker1: arlyn page? 
speaker2: you'll never catch up; she's grooved out.
speaker3: gil?

speaker1: i'm not looking for her personally - someone she might know about. 
speaker2: try janie dale.

speaker1: it's old mr. clean from cleveland. he wants to know when he can fly in and clean up the apartment and see you. i told him i have all the cleaning equipment and that he can come anytime, but it's up to you. 
speaker2: you know he wants us to be dominant.
speaker1: tell him that he'd better have his in here by one o'clock on monday afternoon or you won't let him clean the bathroom floor, and tell him the price has gone up twenty bucks -- old dutcn cleanser's not as cheap as it used to be.
speaker1: you wanted to know about arlyn, honey? i had to let her go dear. arlyn stopped being reliable. i deal with a high type client, business people, you understand? i can't send them someone that's all the time half zonked out.
speaker3: do you know where she went?
speaker1: try momma reese.

speaker1: -- a couple weeks then she'd drift off a couple of weeks, you know what i mean? 
speaker2: have you heard from her recently?
speaker1: she liked me all right but she had what she liked better, you know what i mean?
speaker2: have you heard from her recently?

speaker1: the whore, yeah. i threw out. 
speaker2: do you know where she went from here?
speaker1: live like animals. her and the man.
speaker2: was she living with a man?

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: what the do you think's the matter. i could wait for you someplace.
speaker1: if arlyn page is living with tom grunemann --
speaker2: -- then you don't need me.
speaker1: but if it's someone else i do.
speaker2: you sure pull a lot of mileage out of a hundred dollars.

speaker1: cappy? 
speaker2: arlyn? honey? look, it's all right.
speaker3: is it cappy? cappy? --
speaker2: arlyn, it's all right.
speaker3: cappy, i got a radio!
speaker1: no --
speaker1: bree -- honey - please, we're waiting for someone.
speaker2: arlyn, he just wanted to ask some questions -- something you could help us about.
speaker1: can't you see i'm strung out? please, we're waiting for it -- he's got to have it!
speaker4: we'll go. just something you could tell us, first.
speaker2: honey, a couple of years ago, with jane and frankie? -- jane sent me a dumper --
speaker1: please, if he sees you, he won't come!
speaker2: arlyn, just tell me, did jane have a dumper, one of her regular johns?
speaker1: what about him? yes.
speaker2: did he come around often?
speaker1: no. he was an older man hon. the dumper was older.
speaker4: do you remember his name? what can you tell me about him?
speaker3: arlyn, get them out.
speaker1: please, i am begging you.
speaker4: it's important.
speaker1: that's not the dumper, that's all!
speaker4: can you give me any more description than that?
speaker1: cappy? --
speaker1: it's all right, they're all right -- -- turns and runs.
speaker3: cappy? -- cappy?
speaker3: cappy it's all right! i got a radio -- don't run, don't --

speaker1: oh baby -- no it's all right -- oh my baby baby baby -- 
speaker1: get out! don't cry my baby; i'll find him, i'll get it. baby, baby, don't cry. leave us alone! get out and get out and leave us alone! my honey, my baby, my baby -- we dissolve to --

speaker1: she wouldn't be reliable anyhow -- a narcotics addict. 
speaker2: i believed her, pete.
speaker3: he's right you know. waiting for the pusher, she'd tell you anything.
speaker2: i believed her: the dumper was not tom grunemann.
speaker1: all right, suppose it wasn't tom grunemann; where does that get you?
speaker2: it's where it doesn't get me. i've got nothing left that connects to anything.
speaker1: then, close the case.
speaker2: i better keep looking.
speaker1: where, how?
speaker2: i could try arlyn page again. she saw much more of the dumper than bree daniel.
speaker1: you just finished telling me she had nothing to offer. not tom, you said, the dumper was clearly not tom.
speaker2: it's got to make sense some way.
speaker4: mr. cable -- they are meeting in mr. camara's office.
speaker1: yes evvie, thanks. gentlemen, i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'm flying back out to pennsylvania friday; i'll fill them in on things.
speaker2: how is it back there?
speaker1: i think you're homesick. i'll be out at my camp over the weekend. nice right now, that touch of fall in the air, that skim of frost in the early mornings, very peaceful. john, i'll be back here again thursday; i'll be in touch. lieutenant, thank you. klute and trask depart. cable closes the door and returns to his desk. he pulls out a tape recorder from a drawer in his desk, rewinds it and turns it on. we hear a playback of the previous scene with klute and trask. he stands at the window listening with some satisfaction; as if listening to what klute revealed keeps him in control of the situation.

speaker1: they were bringing a freighter down through kill van kull; propellers washed it up on top. sugarman brings into view a metal basket attached with short ropes. he complains -- 
speaker2: why didn't you bring it up on deck?
speaker3: would you bring it up on deck?
speaker3: mickey, get something. get the eels off.
speaker4: they'll drop off theirselves when she comes out.

speaker1: it'll go to the examiner. but i don't see nothin that means nothin. 
speaker2: you help us with id? we can't get nothin from him. he indicates the direction of berger. klute examines the clipboard data.
speaker3: arlyn page was probably an alias. she went by the names terry arlyn and june price. she may have been from pittsburgh, someone told me. i can give you a list of people who knew her, if that would help to --
speaker2: no point, thanks.
speaker3: is he claiming the body?
speaker2: uh uh, that'd mean funeral expenses.
speaker4: man could you help me? klute doesn't understand his purport, reacts instantly, sympathetically --
speaker3: yeah, what?
speaker4: you know, help me out. that's my baby there, dead. i got to get up.
speaker4: man you don't know what that does to me, my baby dead --
speaker3: -- you've got to get up.
speaker4: yeah.

speaker1: that's how the other one died, you know. in the water. 
speaker2: i looked it up.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: well hello -- come on in. 
speaker2: i thought you ought to know, arlyn page is dead.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: the same as jane mckenna.
speaker1: thanks for the jolly news. i thought maybe you'd left town by now. you kind of just disappeared. but you boys from tuscarora have a habit of disappearing, don't you?
speaker2: the next few weeks i would like to know where you are all the time.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: just let me know when you are going out and where --
speaker1: what if i go out on tricks - you wanna come along? you could sit and read the national geographic.
speaker2: how can you do it to yourself?
speaker1: i don't get you.
speaker2: ligourin: how could you do it?
speaker1: i told you before, you wouldn't understand.
speaker2: you're right, i don't understand. explain it to me. you were scared. arlyn page, that scared you. well it should; that's death. so what did you do, you ran straight for it, death. ligourin kills women.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no, no you're right, i'm sorry. he uses women; he lets them kill themselves. is that how you want it?
speaker1: arlyn was a junkie; i'm not on junk!
speaker2: no, you can find some other way. explain it to me. bree, show me any sense to --
speaker1: you get the christ out! you stupid bastard, you don't know anything, you square, you get out! i don't have to show you anything; you get out!

speaker1: if i asked you something, would you not laugh? -- asked you to look at something? 
speaker1: i thought it was maybe changing shape or something. klute looks at it again. judiciously -- he shows her a spot or two on his own forearm. she compares, is reassured. embarrassedly, she tries to smile. it is unsuccessful. she gets up and moves about. her manner in general is totally unguarded, honest, undramatic, searching.
speaker1: look -- i hate everybody; and i'm sorry for everybody; and i'm scared all the time.
speaker1: look, i don't know either. it's like the only thing i know how to do -- i feel safe.
speaker2: it's been a full day.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: we did this before.
speaker1: no. well all right. but you want to and i want you to and we both know it and all right.
speaker2: i don't like getting splashed. she accepts it decently. tries to smile again, nods.

speaker1: go back to sleep. 
speaker2: i'm still scared. i mean different but still. look, i made it very clear from the start, you're a yokel, you don't excite me, you don't even interest me, and so i only have one question which is what the are you doing in my bed?
speaker1: my bed.
speaker2: oh!
speaker2: i am scared. the things i do. the things i could do to you.
speaker1: mm.
speaker2: no, not just 'mm'. you don't know what i --
speaker2: oh boy, say, you think you're pretty good.
speaker1: yup.
speaker2: oh -- and we cut directly to:

speaker1: the son of a seduced me! 
speaker1: i know: it's ridiculous. but it's tearing me up and i don't know why. and look, all right, i came here didn't i? and if i have to, i'll keep coming here, the works, and talk about my mummy and my daddy and i'll even pay for it, but will you kindly for sakes say something?
speaker2: i'd just be guessing.
speaker1: guess!
speaker2: maybe this wasn't just a trick. maybe you're in danger of real love, real involve --
speaker1: i do not love him.
speaker2: you've spent your life avoiding this. you'll try hard to deny it; you're quite likely to destroy it.

speaker1: four -- five -- what number'd i say? 
speaker2: four ninety-seven, jane mckenna
speaker1: -- and i keep the authorization, please.
speaker2: i thought there'd be more.
speaker3: all right. loneliness. well -- separated. from other people. forgotten. well, as if i can be here, i can go through the motions, right? but the truth is, i don't belong.
speaker4: don't belong?
speaker3: do you always have to repeat?
speaker4: sorry.
speaker3: well it's more than loneliness. hate. people hating me -- and watching me and following and waiting to hurt me -- you know? i'm all screwed up.
speaker4: you think people hate you.
speaker3: the truth is i hate them: they must hate me. all right, the money. all right, not the money. a kind of put-on. it gets things back together. well let's say i'd go to one of these cattle-calls, a tryout. i mean before -- before i got this job -- and they'd always say thank you very much and i'd feel, you know, brought down. they didn't want me.
speaker4: didn't want you.
speaker3: i said that. well, so you have a choice. you can either feel lonely -- you know, the hate -- or -- so you take a call and go to a hotel room and there's some john you've never seen before, but he wants you. he must, he's paying for it. and usually they're nervous and that's all right, too, because you're not; you know this thing. and then for a while, boy, they really pay attention, you're all there is. and it's not real and you don't have to even like them -- you can even hate them, it's all right, it safe -- you know?
speaker5: all right, there's tom grunemann, you're right, different margins, different spacing absolutely, sloppy, right.
speaker6: mm.
speaker5: all right, try this next guy.
speaker7: klute reacts.
speaker8: think this is our guy?
speaker2: i don't know. it looks familiar to me.
speaker8: thought it might. it's off an arrest report you typed two years ago. man you wanted samples of everybody.
speaker8: now the next cat. mm?

speaker1: but what reason could he have? what possible reason? 
speaker2: unless he was involved with grunemann's disappearance.
speaker1: i knew tom never wrote that letter.
speaker2: what else do you know?
speaker1: i never could believe that tom was a split personality. i never believed he was a dumper; and i don't believe he disappeared of his own volition; and i don't believe he's alive.
speaker2: we have some very tentative circumstantial evidence of freeky behavior, but there's no evidence of murder - there's not even a body.
speaker1: i don't believe tom's alive.
speaker1: but why? why?
speaker1: yes, mr. cable's office, please.
speaker3: john, how are you?
speaker1: i'll be sending you on a report tonight.
speaker3: it's a beautiful day in tuscarora - i don't envy you that humidity in the city.
speaker1: it's not so bad.
speaker1: would you like to know what's in it? the report.
speaker3: what's in it?
speaker1: i think tom grunemann's dead. i've been a lot of places - i've asked a lot of people. i've found no proof he's around. i've found no proof he was ever around.
speaker4: how do you go from that to the idea tom's dead? suicide you're suggesting? he killed himself?
speaker1: he could've been murdered.
speaker3: i'm sure the fbi and the police explored that possibility.
speaker1: no. they never did, really. but that's what i'm going to recommend.
speaker3: have you discussed this with them?
speaker1: it's in the report.
speaker3: do they have the report? have you discussed it with them?
speaker1: i wanted to give it to you first.
speaker3: all right. all right -- john, just sit tight will you? i'll read your report, i'll discuss it with the others. i'll be back next thursday, we'll talk the whole thing over then. nothing til thursday, all right?
speaker1: all right.
speaker3: thank you. goodbye, john.
speaker1: goodbye, pete.
speaker1: he was always at their house on holidays. tom and holly always had him, over on holidays. tom felt sorry for him - his whole life was work. tom felt sorry for him.

speaker1: i saw mr. faber. you remember mr. faber, don't you? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: is that all you have to say?
speaker2: what am i supposed to say?
speaker1: well, i told him i wouldn't - uh - go there any more. i know it's tough to understand, but it wasn't easy. you see, he was nice to me. i mean, it wasn't just him. i got something out of it too i guess. anyway, i told him i wouldn't go there anymore. she is like a child awaiting praise from her
speaker2: well, here's your gold star.
speaker1: spangler says we have a relationship.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you and i -- a relationship.
speaker2: i was wondering what that was.
speaker1: there's nothing so mysterious about the square life.

speaker1: oh oh 
speaker2: don't touch anything.
speaker1: you suppose he's a married fella?

speaker1: he stands, looking down, taking no notice as -- 
speaker2: he got in my clothing!
speaker2: oh. oh.
speaker2: oh look what he did in them.
speaker1: drop it.
speaker1: stay out of there.
speaker1: listen to me: it's all right. i've been expecting something.
speaker2: my i thought it was over. and here i am, daddy, right back at the start.
speaker1: bree --
speaker2: right back at the start, right?
speaker1: go down in my room.
speaker2: you said it was over, right? you said not to worry any more, all over, right?
speaker1: go down in my room and wait.

speaker1: but if cable killed grunemann why would he get you hired to look for grunemann? 
speaker2: because he knew i couldn't leave the case alone. and this way at least he'd keep track of it. and me.
speaker1: what about grunemann's letters to the girl, everything like that?
speaker3: cable's letters, cable's phone calls. cable's everything else. he's been a dumper a long time. he just passed off his own peculiar habits on the other man -- it kept things goin'.
speaker1: ok, pretend i believe you. tell me how you get an indictment.
speaker3: can't. yet. oh we got everythin' else: first rate evidence cable typed those dumper letters to bree daniel. and jane mckenna: klute found a couple in her personal remains. we got dates of cable's trips here coincidin' with phone calls to bree daniel, also the dates of death of mckenna and page. we got some hints of his personal history. his father, unsuccessful salesman, committed suicide when he was 13. his mother pinned all her hopes on her son. he won a national science youth award at the age of eight. they had no money, but she hired special tutors for him in the summer time. she saw a good thing. he graduated from high school at 14 -- college at 16 -- no friends -- the kids in his class thought of him as a freak. he got his ph.d. at 18 -- married at age 21 to his then employer's daughter. the marriage lasted 4 weeks. her father had it annulled. she says he was impotent. world war ii he got in bad trouble about a german girl, no details. we think we know why he killed grunemann -- he found out cable was a dumper; cable couldn't take that. we think we know why he killed mckenna -- she wanted to blackmail him for it. all fine. but we got no body, no direct witnesses, we can't go any-damn-where.
speaker2: that's the reason i told him we had no evidence tom was still alive. we wanted to shake him into another phone call or another letter. it didn't work out just that way.
speaker3: gov, want to leave me that one. how come he got to play with this one, anyway.
speaker2: i left them here. i was doing some work here.
speaker3: it's lucky you didn't have the dossier on cable here.
speaker2: nobody's seen that.
speaker3: if we get anything from the lab, we'll have it by noon. and just think -- all he really had to do was write us a letter.
speaker1: sounds to me you better shake him again. put him in a spot he has to do something more -- but this time give him a time and a place to do it.
speaker2: he called this morning from tuscarora. asked me to meet him at 3:00 at the downtown heliport. he's on his way to chicago.
speaker3: he sure chalks up a lot of flight time.

speaker1: ah, schmendrick -- what's the scam? 
speaker2: those were police laboratory people, they've been over the apartment.
speaker1: oh zippidy-doo, they'll find my fingerprints. can i go in? i need some stuff.
speaker2: where'd you spend last night?
speaker1: with trina.
speaker2: i called trina.
speaker1: maybe i wasn't there when you called.
speaker2: bree, what's actually happened? it wasn't that bad.
speaker1: how do you know how bad it was?
speaker2: why couldn't you stay here with me?
speaker1: because i didn't want to be touched! i didn't think you'd get that!
speaker2: trask wants to talk with you.
speaker1: hey -- look officer -- i can explain everything. it was just -- you know, everything all of a --
speaker2: trask wants to talk with you.

speaker1: miss daniel, be sensible, you find another place till we get things cleaned up. 
speaker2: oh well that shouldn't take you more than another, oh, two and a half or three years, should it?
speaker1: a few more days. we know who did this.
speaker2: so do i.
speaker1: no, not grunemann. he's dead. the man that killed him -- also prob'ly jane mckenna, also arlyn page.
speaker2: arlyn and jane commited suicide. he said they commited suicide.
speaker1: now there's a picture i'd like you to --
speaker2: you said someone killed them, you said you know who, you said that.
speaker1: well we're pretty --
speaker2: why isn't he locked up?
speaker1: we don't want to just lock him up; we want a conviction, we wanted him to do something more.
speaker2: is that why klute didn't tell me?
speaker1: i guess he figured it was better.
speaker2: what was better? i made better bait?
speaker1: no, that's not --
speaker2: is that what he set me up for? everything he's told me from the beginning? -- don't worry, don't --
speaker1: from the beginning i don't know why the he's messin with you. if he was me he'd know better. if he was even a city boy he'd know better. you're a miss daniel, that's the truth of it, right? now somethin i'd like you to look at.
speaker2: i don't have to look at anything. i don't have --
speaker1: here please.
speaker2: oh no.
speaker1: like for you to look for the man.
speaker2: grunemann? i've looked at him a --
speaker1: no. not grunemann. the dumper. just look around -- i said look for the dumper.
speaker2: oh! -- -- and we cut to --

speaker1: sorry we had to meet here. but i'm pressed for time. 
speaker2: well there's a couple --
speaker1: i read your report. i had to go along with it -- the idea of this being a wild goose chase, tom being nowhere around --
speaker2: well as a matter of --
speaker1: i've been up country, you know my summer place, my camp. i don't even have a telephone there. this morning they sent a messenger out, that you'd been trying to call me.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm on my way to chicago. very important meeting tonight. well -- any new developments?
speaker2: yeah, two things pete, that --
speaker1: you said trask was arranging laboratory work. police laboratory.
speaker2: yeah. it wasn't tom.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i don't understand.
speaker2: it wasn't tom that broke in the room.
speaker1: it has to be tom. you said he ripped up his own pictures, he --
speaker2: not tom. whoever it was left a kind of souvenir, i told you, in her clothing. semen. the laboratory got a blood group reading from that. the man was blood type 0; tom was an ab.
speaker1: some mistake perhaps that --
speaker2: no. no mistake pete. it doesn't prove who it was -- but proves it wasn't tom.
speaker1: you must be discouraged.
speaker2: not too bad. this brings back that dumper in the picture.
speaker1: that who?
speaker2: dumper, the man bree daniel mentioned and arlyn page knew and jane mckenna knew.
speaker1: you said he was no possible connection with tom. the page girl told you that, not tom.
speaker2: someone's been doing all these things.
speaker1: you were hired to look for tom, not someone.
speaker2: pete, i've got a chance to buy jane mckenna's black book.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: call-girls generally keep a book, you know, a list of their clients. sometimes, if a girl retires, she'll even sell it worth good money. jane mckenna had a black book; when she died it was stolen.
speaker1: you were hired to look for tom.
speaker2: i'm meeting a man tomorrow night. he wants to meet me on east-river drive -- he wants five hundred dollars for the book. can you get that for me pete?
speaker1: i can't follow you.
speaker2: will the company put up five hundred dollars to get jane mckenna's list of clients?
speaker1: no. it's ridiculous. this has nothing to do with tom grunemann.
speaker2: it probably has the dumper's name. it might give us some kind of new lead. i want a look at it anyhow.
speaker1: klute, the company's interest is tom grunemann. solely and exclusively. you say you can't find tom; all right, i'll see that you're paid off; the case is closed.
speaker2: all right, but i'm going to see that list.
speaker1: why would they deal with you? you don't know these people.
speaker2: no, but bree does. she's negotiating for me. bree daniel.
speaker1: i can talk it over; possibly i can get the money. when are you meeting the man?
speaker2: tomorrow evening, nine. east river drive and 73rd street.
speaker1: suppose i meet you there a half hour before.
speaker2: just send me a money order.
speaker1: no, i'd -- like to be in on it. attendant comes over to motion cable onto the helicopter. klute smiles awkwardly, raises his hand in a goodbye gesture.
speaker2: well --
speaker1: tomorrow. see you tomorrow night.

speaker1: i don't want you to do this. 
speaker1: please. i said i don't want you to do this.
speaker2: trask said i should move. let's not make a thing of it. he continues to look at her; she continues to gather possessions. then trying to smile, to deal with it casually --
speaker2: look, too much is going on here. i'm moving in with another girl, that's all. just for a while.
speaker3: that's right. this other girl's got a very big apartment, big, plenty of room. look, it's not necessarily how it looks, right? it's -- he thinks better of continuing. klute looks from him back to bree. he speaks gravely, spacing his words -- unable to speak any faster.
speaker1: no. please. not with this son of a frank rises, both nervous and offended -- but dealing with klute as between civilized men. smiling.
speaker3: klute, let's handle it like grownups? i mean we're all grown up now, right? -- we all respect each other, you know what i mean? -- i respect you, bree respects you -- you could say, it just didn't work out between you and she. but you got to respect her too -- you know, her best interests, best for her -- klute hits him, pursues, recovers, and starts to beat him. blood thickly descends the side of frank's face, as he struggles away. bree is screaming. bree grabs at him from behind. he thrusts her off. but it allows frank to break away through the still-open door. klute pursues.

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: hey, i'm gonna get you dropped.

speaker1: -- i have to close up now. leave your name and number with his message service, mrs. daniel, and why don't you just go home and wait until he -- 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well i have to close up now.
speaker2: look -- could i use your phone?
speaker1: yes indeed.
speaker2: look. i almost killed my -- i almost killed someone.
speaker1: well i'm certain doctor spangler will want to talk with you; excuse me. bree moves to the desk and telephone. but we move with the secretary as she moves into spangler's inner office and switches out the lights and as we hear, o.s., the sound of dialing and bree's voice --
speaker2: is mr. faber there? mr. faber senior.

speaker1: trina, will you call me if you hear from, her? will you check other people she might call? yeah, if it wasn't trouble i wouldn't ask vou. 
speaker1: yeah? nothing yet, trask; i'm going down the list. i've tried spangler's office and spangler's home; i just get his message service. i'll keep-- i may have steered cable that way. i told him bree was dealing for me, for jane mckenna's book. have you found any -- he is interrupted again -- trask wasting no words on his end of things -- nods once --
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: lady, it's closing up there. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we're closing up, quitting time, fabers.
speaker2: i have an appointment with mr.
speaker1: oh, yeah. he lets her pass, glances after her like the others, continues on his way.

speaker1: i have an appointment with mr. 
speaker2: in there. mr. faber --

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i'm sorry -- mr. faber senior.
speaker1: my father went home about fifteen minutes ago; he wasn't feeling too good. she has already started away. he calls after her evenly --
speaker1: can i help you?
speaker2: it wasn't important.
speaker3: bree returns toward receptionist, awkwardly --
speaker2: did mr. faber leave a message for me or anything? mr. faber senior?
speaker4: oh, i thought that was for tomorrow.

speaker1: bree daniel. has he called in yet? well if he does, i'm at -- -- two seven eight, three one hundred, and i guess i can wait here five minutes; then i'll try from somewhere else. just tell him bree daniel; he knows who. she hangs up, goes back to readdressing the envelope. footsteps are approaching in her direction. she glances up apologetically. 
speaker1: mr. faber, i just wanted to leave this for your father, and i wondered if you'd -- she pauses --

speaker1: did she leave a number? this is a police call; don't make me take time to prove it. did she leave a number? what is the number? what is the number? -- 
speaker2: can't we talk together reasonably, just -- ordinarily? i know you're expecting some kind of -- extravagant behavior, but believe me -- do you believe me? --
speaker3: yes -- all right --
speaker2: -- we can talk --
speaker3: -- yes.
speaker2: all right, then, an ordinary matter. i'm a quite well off man, i have a -- position to respect. i would feel personally uncomfortable to be connected with a -- certain kind of woman, i'm sure you understand. do you? well i'd like to buy jane mckenna's book.
speaker2: her black book, jane mckenna's, her list of -- of persons. i was told you're negotiating for it on behalf of --
speaker2: that was what klute told me -- you were negotiating for him to buy that list. and i'm in a position to pay a good deal more for it than he can. do you understand? i'd like you to acquire it on my -- miss daniel, do you not understand? miss daniel, i can't tell whether you understand me. is this something klute just invented? is this a trap for me, miss daniel; does klute know about me?
speaker2: you have no idea what i'm talking about.
speaker3: yes -- jane mckenna's book -- i could make a phone call.
speaker2: no, you're frightened, you're pretending. well -- klute knows about me then. does everybody know, can you tell me?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: then it doesn't matter what i do any more, does it?
speaker2: you people know nothing about pain.

speaker1: i've got no idea what i shall do. 
speaker1: i'm not going to hurt you, absolutely, i'm not.
speaker2: will you let me go then?
speaker1: it puzzles me so badly. i've done terrible things but i can't consider myself a terrible man. i've killed three people and i'd still want to say it was accident, do you see?
speaker2: if you'll let me go i could tell them what --
speaker1: tom grunemann discovered me -- we were here on business together, he discovered me with jane mckenna. then i suppose it was the -- the contempt i saw in his face and the certainty that sooner or later he'd use it against me. within the company. i endured that as long as i could, do you see?
speaker2: i'm sorry, i'm just frightened.
speaker1: excuse me miss daniel?
speaker2: i said yes, i see.
speaker1: oh no, i don't think --
speaker2: tell me. i'll listen. i just want you to tell me.
speaker1: you're willing to listen? you want me just to keep talking?
speaker1: that's what you do, isn't it; you make a man feel accepted. that's what you all do. your stock in trade a man's weakness.
speaker1: why don't you ask for mercy? my what mercy has anyone given me?

speaker1: you're a person of no value, you have no value -- 
speaker2: klute works his way steadily closer -- under
speaker1: -- is that contempt? is it? no, i'm the one who feels contempt. -- and once or twice a cry from bree.

speaker1: klute moves on -- moves on -- gains position -- springs. 
speaker2: cable catches the sound, whirls, screams --

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i got a call from ross this morning. cable owned a plot of woodland -- he'd go there on weekends. they found tom grunemann's body buried there.
speaker1: oh. well it wasn't us city people that did it -- your fine rosy-cheeked country boy.
speaker2: mm.
speaker1: you're going back?
speaker2: mm.
speaker2: wait.
speaker1: well suppose i hadn't come downstairs. would you just have folded up and sneaked away?
speaker2: no. i was going to come up. i wanted to ask you to marry me.
speaker1: you wanted to, or you are?
speaker2: i am.
speaker1: you could at least look at me!
speaker1: look -- yes. i mean thanks, but -- don't you think we better be realistic?
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: look at me. i'm pretty and sort of clever and very well intentioned, and dear i'd tear your heart out!
speaker2: i don't think so. he resumes packing, continues through the following.
speaker1: how can you not think so? you know the things i can do.
speaker2: they don't scare me any more.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: doesn't scare me. i think we could handle it.
speaker1: look, why should it be yes or no? can't we keep it going and see? i mean we can keep in touch and visit each other and see. people do that, that's realistic.

speaker1: you don't believe that either, do you? why can't you see my side? 
speaker2: can you use these?
speaker1: can i carry something for you, to the car? will you kiss me?
speaker2: no. i'm sore.
speaker2: well --

speaker1: oh heck -- oh heck -- 
speaker1: i haven't decided yet! i haven't decided yet! i haven't decided yet! --

