speaker1: lord uther! lord uther! 
speaker1: it's done. a truce. we meet at the river.
speaker2: talk. lovers murmuring to each other...

speaker1: i spit on your truce, uther. if you want peace, throw down your swords. 
speaker2: i should butcher all and every one of them. merlin, what is this wagging of tongues?
speaker3: just show the sword.
speaker3: behold the sword of power, excalibur. before uther, it belonged to lud, before lud, to beowulf, before beowulf to baldur the good, before baldur to thor himself and that was when the world was young and there were more than seven colors in the rainbow. speak the words.
speaker1: lord uther, if i yield to the sword of power, what will you yield?
speaker2: me, yield!?
speaker3: he has given. now you must.
speaker2: the land from here to the sea is yours if you will enforce the king's will.
speaker1: done!
speaker1: my lord king uther, let us feast together. to my castle. lord merlin, you must join - but merlin is nowhere in sight.

speaker1: i would wish you such a wife, lord uther, as my igrayne. so innocent, but in bed, a furnace... 
speaker2: i must have her.
speaker3: what? you're mad! what about the alliance?
speaker2: i must have her.
speaker3: and risk all you've won? this castle commands the sea gate to the kingdom.

speaker1: merlin! where are you!? 
speaker1: have you found him?
speaker2: no--
speaker3: what a hurry you were in this morning, good sir. you forgot to give this old woman a coin.
speaker2: i saw you half a day's gallop from here. i asked you if you had seen merlin. i returned here straight away. how did -
speaker3: --i heard. i have come. i am also merlin.
speaker4: i have walked my way since the beginning of time. sometimes i give, sometimes i take. it is mine to know which, and when.
speaker1: riddles, merlin. i am your king.
speaker4: i know the storm inside you, and what it has wrought. the alliance i forged is wrecked.
speaker1: for igrayne. one night with her. do it. use the magic.
speaker4: you will swear by your true kingship to grant me what i wish. then you shall have it.
speaker1: i swear it. by excalibur and the holy--
speaker4: --what issues from your will be mine. swear it again.
speaker1: i swear it.

speaker1: come. 
speaker1: i hold the balance of all things in my summoning. arise mists. come fog.

speaker1: mount your horse. 
speaker1: ride straight to the castle, across the sea of fog.
speaker2: but the cliff, the sea...
speaker1: ride across! across the bridges of desire. your will hold you up. for i have just woven it into the fabric of the world. this is magic - making solid what is in the mind, and unsolid, that which is already solid. he gives the horse a stinging blow with his staff.

speaker1: papa... papa... 
speaker1: my father is dead...

speaker1: look, here is your father. it was just a dream, little one. 
speaker2: come igrayne.

speaker1: when did it happen? where? 
speaker2: in the camp of uther, my lady, just after nightfall.
speaker1: it can't be. he came to me, to his bed, last night.
speaker3: it was his spirit, yearning for you in his hour of death, that visited you.
speaker1: his spirit?
speaker1: tintagel castle falls to uther. but what shall become of me, and the child i bear?

speaker1: out! 
speaker1: what is it, lady?
speaker2: a boy, sir. rest yourself.
speaker1: send the girl away.
speaker2: she is just a child -
speaker1: out!
speaker2: go now. come back later.
speaker1: she watches me with her father's eyes.
speaker1: igrayne, is he mine, or -
speaker2: the night he died, a man loved me with great fierceness. he looked like my husband, spoke like, smelled like, felt like my own husband. but it was not he, for he was already dead. it wasn't his spirit, for this child, who was conceived that night, is flesh and blood. i know nothing more.
speaker2: no--
speaker1: through him, i will learn to love them, for i am tired of battle. i will stay by his side and his mother's...
speaker1: here. it's hungry.
speaker1: merlin! out of the sick sleep at last.
speaker3: doing what i did for you, it wasn't easy, you know. it takes it's toll. it took nine moons to get back my strength.
speaker3: now you must pay me.

speaker1: the child is mine, uther. i have come for him. 
speaker2: the oath. you didn't say--
speaker1: you didn't ask!
speaker3: uther, is it true? don't let him take the child.
speaker2: i swore an oath, igrayne. i made a pact with merlin.
speaker3: it was you? you came to me that night. you are the father.
speaker1: it's not for you, uther, hearth and home, wife and child.
speaker2: to kill and be king, is that all?
speaker1: maybe not even that, uther. i thought once that you were the one to unite the land under one sword. but it'll take another, a greater king...
speaker2: you strike me with words as hard as steel.
speaker1: they are not weapons, my friend, but truths. you betrayed the duke, stole his wife and took his castle, now no one trusts you. lot, uryens, your allies will turn against you. give me the child, uther, i will protect him. go back to your war tent.
speaker3: why?... why must he have the baby?

speaker1: merlin, where are you? to weave a mist, to hide us... 
speaker1: no one shall have the sword. no one shall wield excalibur but me.

speaker1: it is a dark hour... everywhere lawlessness and destruction, and no one to lead us out of it. 
speaker1: listen all. i am sir ector of morven and these are my sons. you would wrong me, for i have never stolen from others, or destroyed the fruit of the land.
speaker1: the people's anger is just. it is sad that for our own safety, we will have to ride to the tournament with these robber knights.

speaker1: arthur, where is kay's sword? a good squire doesn't forget his knight's sword. 
speaker2: i left it in the tent, sir.
speaker1: well hurry then, and get it.

speaker1: look, father. excalibur. does that mean that i am to be king? 
speaker2: did you free the sword, boy?
speaker1: i... did, father.
speaker2: we must go to the stone at once.

speaker1: draw it, son! 
speaker2: sir, i didn't draw the sword. arthur gave it to me.
speaker1: arthur ?! how did you get the sword, child?
speaker3: sir... kay needed a sword. his was stolen. i saw excalibur, and... i took it.
speaker1: you freed it, son?
speaker3: i did, father. i beg your forgiveness.
speaker1: try the sword, arthur.
speaker4: stand back, sir ector, and take your children.
speaker5: we will try again.
speaker1: let the boy try the sword.
speaker6: let the boy try...
speaker1: go ahead, boy. don't be afraid.
speaker6: we have our king, thanks be to
speaker3: please, father, rise up. i was your son before i became your king... if i am king.
speaker1: my lord, you are king, all the more because you are not my son, and i am not your father.
speaker3: who is, then?
speaker1: i don't know. merlin brought you to me when you were newly born and charged me to raise you as my own. at first, i did so because i feared merlin, later because i loved you.
speaker3: who is merlin?
speaker7: speak of the devil!...
speaker7: i am merlin. counselor to kings. wizard and beggar. prophet and... i have feasted on thunderbolts, i savored my death before i got myself born. i--
speaker3: whose son am i?
speaker7: you are the son of king uther, and the fair igrayne... you are king arthur.
speaker5: merlin, we haven't forgotten you. this is more of your trickery.
speaker4: you're trying to foist a boy of dubious birth upon us. you want to shame us?
speaker5: lord leondegrance, join us against the boy. surely you can see he is only merlin's tool.
speaker8: no. i, leondegrance, lord of

speaker1: ...merlin... merlin... 
speaker1: merlin!
speaker2: you called, sir?
speaker1: you saved me from the arrow...
speaker2: but not from your destiny.
speaker1: i want to thank you.
speaker2: that's not why you came.
speaker1: merlin, help me. i need your help. i don't know how--
speaker2: i'm tired. doing magic takes its toll, you know. my arms ache terribly... once--or is it yet to happen--i stood exposed to the dragon's breath so that a man could lie one night with a woman. it took me ten moons to recover. i'm sure that story would interest you, since... well, we'll have to talk about it another time. you're too busy now.
speaker2: it is whispered in the forest that... ...leondegrance's castle is under siege by lot and uryens.
speaker1: yes, yes, i know that. everybody does. lord leondegrance is my only ally among the barons and the great knights. i can't lose him.
speaker2: well there. you don't need me half as much as you think you do. you already know what must not happen.
speaker1: i must find the means to save him, then. i was hoping i could ask you for a little magic help, but if it makes you so tired...
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: it's just that i have no experience, and no men to speak of. how can i--
speaker2: because you must! you and only you. have you forgotten that it was you who freed excalibur?
speaker2: besides, it will be a good lesson. the best, if it's not the last.
speaker2: maybe you'd like to meet the power that gave you the sword?
speaker1: how? where?
speaker2: in the great book.
speaker1: what book is that?
speaker2: the book without pages. open before you, all around us. you can see it in bits and pieces, for if mortal men were to see it whole and all complete in a single glance, why, it would burn him to cinders.
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: the dragon! there... 
speaker1: coiled in the unfathomed depths, it emerges...
speaker1: ...it unfolds itself in the storm clouds...
speaker1: ...it washes its mane sparkling white in the blackness of seething whirlpools...
speaker1: ...its claws are the forks of lightning... its scales glisten in the bark of trees...
speaker1: ...its voice is heard in the hurricane...

speaker1: ...it is so much more than a scaly monster. it is everything! 
speaker2: and if i am to be king of everything, lord and commoner, beast, leaf and rock, i must use its voice, its claws, its power.

speaker1: father, it's the boy king. 
speaker2: it is. i will fight my way to his side.

speaker1: war-wise fighters, grown gray in battle, checkmated by a boy. 
speaker2: it's merlin's trickery, nothing more. i won't swear faith to that wizard's brat.
speaker3: let's finish this with a show of force. we have no more tricks and no more advantages.
speaker4: no...

speaker1: you are in my hands, to slay or spare. i need battle lords such as you. swear faith to me and you shall have mercy. 
speaker2: noble knights swear faith to a mere squire?
speaker1: you are right. i'm not yet a knight. you, uryens, will knight me.
speaker1: then as knight to knight i can offer you mercy.
speaker3: what's this, what's this?!

speaker1: i never saw this... 
speaker2: in the name of of saint michael and saint george, i give you the right to bear arms, the power to mete justice.
speaker3: that duty i will solemnly obey as knight and king.
speaker2: rise, my king. i am your humble knight, and i swear allegiance to the courage in your veins, for so strong it is, it's source must be uther. i doubt you no more.

speaker1: owww... 
speaker2: it didn't hurt too much, did it?
speaker1: ye...
speaker2: --i'm pretty good at stitchery. i've sewn my father's wounds more than once.
speaker2: careful! you'll have to stay still for a few days or you'll tear them open.
speaker1: but i have to leave tomorrow. the forests are thick with rebels, invaders plunder our shores...
speaker2: --and damsels in besieged castles are waiting to be rescued?
speaker1: i didn't know leondegrance had a daughter.
speaker2: well, then, i shall tell you which knights have maiden daughters, so you can avoid their castles.
speaker2: no, i think it's better if you just stay here to heal. at least a week.
speaker1: i'm going.
speaker2: quiet, or i'll sew up your mouth too.
speaker2: would you rescue me from a fiery dragon, sir?
speaker2: it's just a furry little rabbit that took the bait and sprung the trap.
speaker2: you'll find him served up to you tonight, cooked in a most excellent sauce...

speaker1: a king must marry, after all. 
speaker2: ...of course...
speaker2: i love her. if she would be my queen, my dreams would be answered.
speaker1: there are maidens as fair, and fairer than guenevere. if i put my mind to it, i could see them now, many of them, weeping for love of you, watching the hills for you coming from the high towers of their castles. offering you their every favor. rich, clever--but if it is to be guenevere, so be it.
speaker2: who will it be? put your mind to it, then.
speaker1: guenevere. and a beloved friend who will betray you.
speaker2: guenevere...
speaker1: you're not listening. your heart is not. love is deaf as well as blind.
speaker3: they are only for you, for in them i mixed things that heal, but not too quickly; and things that make limbs sleepy, preventing escape, but keep one's mind sharp.
speaker2: what's in them?
speaker3: it is an ancient mixture, containing only soft, unborn grains, and flavored with roses. the rest is secret.
speaker1: looking at the cake is like looking at the future. until you have savored its bitterness and its sweetness, its texture and its perfume, what do you really know? and then, of course, it will he too late.
speaker1: too late...

speaker1: he is the mightiest and fairest of knights. 
speaker2: we fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? i will go.
speaker3: a king must not engage in single contest. i'll go again.
speaker2: where is merlin? the squires are silent.

speaker1: i should have left you to fend for yourself. 
speaker2: i had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so i could get some honey, and i didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. anyway, i was in less danger than you'll be in today.
speaker1: so you were stealing their honey. they should have killed you.
speaker2: come now. so much anger for such a little crime? are you sure there is nothing else troubling you?
speaker1: you know full well there is, and i go to meet it now. come witness my revenge.

speaker1: good day to you, sir. 
speaker2: move aside. this is the king's road, and the knights you joined arms against were his very own.
speaker1: i await the king himself. his knights are in need of training.
speaker2: i am king, and this is excalibur, sword of kings from the dawn of time. who are you, and why do you block the way?
speaker1: i am sir lancelot of the lake, from across the sea. i am the best knight in the whole of christiandom, and i look for the king who is worthy of my sword's service.
speaker2: --that is a wild boast. you lack a knight's humility.
speaker1: not a boast, sir, but a curse. never have i met my match in joust or duel.
speaker2: move aside!
speaker1: i will not. you must retreat or prove your kingship in the test of arms, under the eyes of
speaker2: then may he give me the strength to unhorse you and send you with one blow back across the sea.
speaker1: hold! i offer you another lance.
speaker1: you joust well, sir. battle learnt, but tournament fancy. you should ride more forward in the saddle, though.
speaker1: yield. i have the advantage.
speaker2: i will not.
speaker2: fight me from your horse or on foot, but fight me. your avoidance mocks me.
speaker1: i sought only not to harm you, sir.
speaker1: sir, your rage has unbalanced you. it seems you would fight to the death against a knight who is not your enemy, for a length of road you can ride around.
speaker2: so be it, to the death.
speaker1: it is you, sir, who knows not the virtue of humility, as a true king must.
speaker2: what horror is this? merlin!
speaker3: the sword is broken. hope is broken...
speaker2: my pride broke it, my rage broke it... humiliation and defeat lie in ambush even for a king. this excellent knight who fought with fairness and grace was meant to win. with excalibur, i tried to change that verdict.
speaker2: i have lost for all time the ancient sword of my fathers whose power was meant to unite all men, to serve the vanity of a single man.
speaker2: i am nothing.
speaker2: excalibur! is it true?
speaker3: the lady of the lake. take it. take it, quickly!
speaker3: there are infinite worlds within the infinite coils of the dragon. in one of them, which i have not traveled, the sword was forged. i only know that the king is returned to us through the instrument of his power. the game continues! and he laughs.
speaker2: thanks to you are alive.
speaker1: i, the best knight in the world, bested! this is a great day, for my search is over. i love you, my king. he embraces arthur, who is overwhelmed by his childlike directness. the king helps him to his feet.
speaker2: you are still the best knight in christiandom. you gained a hundred advantages over me. it is i who must love you, for through your courage and patience you taught me a bitter lesson.
speaker1: then make me your champion and i will always fight in your place.
speaker2: but your life and lands are far from here.
speaker1: i gave up my castles and my lands!
speaker1: my domain is here, inside this metal skin. and i would pledge to you all that i still own: muscle, bone, blood and the heart that pumps it.
speaker2: and a great heart it is. sir lancelot, you will be my champion.
speaker1: in the name of christ and his holy blood, i swear eternal faith to arthur, king.

speaker1: ...we killed every one of them. burnt their ship... 
speaker2: lancelot, how did you fare in the north?
speaker3: we spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of king arthur's knights...
speaker2: and you, uryens?
speaker4: victory!
speaker2: lot, and you?
speaker5: we drove the invaders into the sea.
speaker2: you, gawain, the east?
speaker6: the east is ours again.
speaker2: the war is over. one land, one king. peace.
speaker1: let me through. i fought the king's battle too. he must know my story.
speaker7: chaos... confusion... brutes... savages... troglodytes... stand back... make space.
speaker7: the moon... the sun... the stars... they spin... they turn... they circle... around us... us...
speaker7: you, and you, and you, take up your place. be wedded to the world. respect its perfection. all of you, together, be one.
speaker2: your ancient wisdom and infinite sight have forged this circle, merlin. hereafter we shall come together in a circle, to tell and hear of deeds good and brave. i will build a table where this fellowship shall meet. and a hall around the table. and a castle about the hall.
speaker2: and i will marry.
speaker2: and the land will have an heir to wield excalibur.
speaker2: knights of the round table, good friends, brothers in arms. i send you on a quest harder by far than the battles we have fought together, a quest to uphold always, and everywhere, justice, honor, and truth. each day shall bring forth a cause, and may each cause bring forth a knight.
speaker3: i swear never to rest twice on the same pillow till all men live at peace.

speaker1: good day, sir. 
speaker2: good day to you.

speaker1: these men repented before for their evil deeds. those who would not, met their fate at the end of my sword. accept the fruit of my first quest as my wedding gift. 
speaker2: i do. rise, lancelot, come with me.

speaker1: sit beside me, lancelot. 
speaker1: your deeds set an example for all other knights. for your gift, ask a gift of me.
speaker2: only give me leave to ride out again, to do what i am most able to do, and happiest doing.
speaker3: he must stay for the feasting days of our wedding, and tell his deeds himself.
speaker1: i grant you your wish if you grant lady guenevere hers.
speaker2: i will stay madame.
speaker4: the knights of galys approach the camp. it would be politic...
speaker1: ...to ride out and meet them.
speaker1: i will ride with sir kay. lancelot, rest here.
speaker3: don't start a war on my wedding day!
speaker1: without lancelot?!
speaker3: look lancelot. the maids and ladies whisper about you. they all dream of winning you, young and old, fair and ugly.
speaker3: but surely that's no secret to you, dear lancelot. you're the bravest and strongest knight they've ever seen, and beauty has kissed your brow.
speaker3: the well-kept secret is whether any of them has won your heart.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: i am a fighting man and i am married to the quest. that is enough.
speaker3: and there is no maiden in the whole world who inspires you?
speaker2: there is one.
speaker3: who?!
speaker2: you.
speaker3: me?
speaker2: yes. i would swear my love to you.
speaker3: to me? but why?
speaker2: i cannot love as a woman the lady who will be wife to my king and my friend. and, in pledging my love to you, i cannot love any other woman.
speaker2: i will see you in all women, and i will defend them as i would defend you.

speaker1: lord merlin, are you ill? 
speaker2: no, no, i need air.
speaker3: merlin, don't you join the celebration?
speaker3: my wife, merlin. lady morgana of cornwall.
speaker4: i remember you, merlin. i was a child. you took my brother away.

speaker1: you left your husband's side? you left your brother's wedding? 
speaker2: is that mandrake, lord merlin?
speaker1: it is.
speaker2: can it truly be used for magic?
speaker1: yes... sometimes...
speaker1: ...there are many powers in this world.

speaker1: sorry. hungry. 
speaker1: have i taken too much?
speaker1: i had rabbit yesterday. today i'll eat fish... no?
speaker2: don't be afraid.
speaker1: you're an angel! not a devil...
speaker2: just a man. a knight in the king's service.
speaker1: you're a man?! ...with metal skin!
speaker1: can i grow metal skin?
speaker2: you've got a lot to learn.

speaker1: i'll learn... take me... to the king... what's a... king? 
speaker2: very well. climb up.
speaker1: i will run.
speaker2: listen, boy, it's more than twenty days from here.
speaker1: twenty days!? the world is that big?

speaker1: who will give me my sword? 
speaker2: kitchen knives and greasy spits will be your weapons, boy.

speaker1: i brew ale, sir--from old shoes--i am an honest tradesman sir. i must sell what i produce. he won't buy ale and he won't pay. pay up! he leans over the barrel and in the vapors. the vapors are mine. 
speaker2: how would you know i, sir, have the misfortune to live next to this criminal... what loss in that? not to me! pay for what? why?! they are floating on the wind.
speaker3: enough!... what is a fair price for the smell of your ale?
speaker1: that's why we have come to you, sir there's no one else who can tell us.
speaker3: what does it cost to get drunk on your ale?
speaker1: at least three shillings, sir.
speaker3: give me three shillings.
speaker3: for the smell of your ale, the jingle of his coins.

speaker1: what did i see today in the wizard's eyes? censure, because i enjoy a few words with a young handsome knight? 
speaker2: no, no, of course not. you are young...
speaker2: i'm not jealous!
speaker1: it's clear you are, and it irks me.
speaker2: no. yes, i am. i am jealous. i want to write poems about you with moonbeams, make the sea sing your name...
speaker1: a lovestruck page!
speaker2: shh... yes, yes. sit with me, please... morgana.
speaker1: a steamy, panting, lovestruck page. but what good are songs and poems to me? they are the barter of ordinary love. a gift that reflected your greatness is the only one worthy of your love.
speaker2: i showed you all my conjuring tricks...
speaker1: the deepest secrets, the forbidden formulas...
speaker2: maybe... maybe...
speaker3: merlin, are you counselor to the king, or to my sister?
speaker2: at your service, sir.
speaker3: then answer me this. for years peace has reigned in the land. crops grow in abundance, there is no want. every one of my subjects enjoys his portion of happiness and justice, even those whose tiresome misunderstandings we must resolve here each day. tell me, merlin: have we defeated evil, as it seems?
speaker2: good and evil; there is never one without the other.
speaker3: where hides evil, then, in my kingdom?
speaker2: never where you expect it, that's all i know.
speaker4: if we have peace and justice, why is lancelot never with us? why is he always riding out on his quests? he must know where this evil is.
speaker5: could there be evil within lancelot himself? to live above human folly, as is his aim, is to be overly proud.
speaker4: he pays no heed even to the queens longing for his company.
speaker1: don't listen to him. you are the queen.
speaker3: sir gahalt, answer the queen.
speaker6: no. i meant not to be angry with you, sir gahalt. in the idleness that comes with peace gossip has bread its own evil. you merely repeat it. please, sir, have one of those apples that lancelot loves, and in that gesture partake of its goodness.
speaker6: take one, sir gahalt.
speaker4: i am most honored, my lady.
speaker5: hear me, lord arthur, and knights and chieftains: i charge guenevere with the murder of my brother.
speaker6: i didn't... i am innocent.
speaker5: i champion this truth: that queen guenevere murdered sir gahalt with the aid of sorcery.
speaker3: the queen will be in my charge till a champion steps forward to fight on her behalf.
speaker6: not you, my husband?
speaker5: she must be burnt at the stake. that is the sentence for murder done with magic.
speaker3: it is. lords and knights of the round table, as her husband i say that this deed was not done by guenevere. who among you will champion this truth?
speaker3: sir caradoc! you!
speaker7: i am torn.
speaker8: i will champion you, my lady.
speaker6: i thank you, but you are not yet a knight.
speaker8: i will find lancelot! he will come!
speaker2: boys!... boys will be boys...

speaker1: i have found you. the queen. an apple. 
speaker2: --it must wait, child. these good ladies, for whom i intervened once, will honor me with a meal. i am beholden to them now as i was when they begged my protection.

speaker1: why can't you be my champion? 
speaker2: if i am your judge, i cannot be your champion. when i act as your king, i cannot be your husband.
speaker1: and you cannot love me...
speaker2: the laws, my laws, must bind everyone, high and low, or they are not laws at all. lancelot will come...
speaker1: and if he cannot be found, no other knight will champion me, though you beseeched each and every one of them. why be king if there is no one you can call loyal subject but an eager boy?

speaker1: is he coming? 
speaker2: he heard lady guenevere's request and he said nothing. that is all.

speaker1: my lord, the sun is upon the field. the queen has no champion. i demand justice, as is my right. 
speaker2: so it is.
speaker3: let me champion the queen! sir gawain looks at the squire with contempt.
speaker2: boy, kneel.
speaker2: in the name of of st. michael, and st. george, i make you a knight. rise, sir...
speaker3: ...perceval!
speaker4: it's my task to prove the queen's innocence.

speaker1: flesh on flesh. you must press on the wound, guenevere, hold it, and it will begin to bind. 
speaker2: merlin, tell me. now that guenevere is returned to me...
speaker1: what is it my child?
speaker2: will i have a son?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: just yes? no mad laughter, no riddles, nothing but a simple yes? that frightens me.
speaker1: a king should be afraid, always. the enemy is everywhere. waiting in ambush in the dark corridors of his castle, on the deer paths of his forest, or in the gray and winding paths of a more tangled forest, in here.

speaker1: they miss the battlefield. i think we do too. 
speaker2: but one can still keep a sword sharp riding out in the name of the king's law.
speaker1: it is not easy for the young ones to learn knightly virtues without the hard teaching of war and quest. it is only your example, lancelot, that binds them now.
speaker1: which is the greatest quality of knighthood? courage? compassion? loyalty? humility? what do you say, merlin?
speaker3: what? the greatest? they blend together like the metals we mix to make a good sword.
speaker1: i didn't ask for poetry. which is it?
speaker3: all right. truth. it must be truth, above all. when a man lies he murders some part of the world.
speaker2: conversation and court life don't suit me. i must take my rest in the forest.
speaker1: hasn't merlin mended your wound?
speaker2: it is deep...
speaker1: you will be sorely missed. heal yourself and come back.

speaker1: why? you will destroy arthur, and us... 
speaker1: the law forbids it.
speaker2: love demands it.
speaker1: there are things about love--
speaker2: --nothing!
speaker1: by my knight's sword, i swore faith--
speaker1: guenevere...

speaker1: i am alone and betrayed. by my wife, by my beloved friend, by my knights. and by you. perhaps most of all by you. for you made me, you forged this wretched life. and like a child tired of a toy, you toss me aside, a babbling lecher trotting after my sister... 
speaker2: that is my destiny. i have a destiny, too...
speaker1: with all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at...
speaker2: my powers fade, arthur. i resort to cheap tricks... yes! i enjoy every moment of my foolishness, i join in the making of it, so no one can betray me. but you! you betray yourself.
speaker1: me? i have lived by the oath of king and knight.
speaker2: you betray the boy who drew the sword, the boy who saw the dragon... the dragon who moves close by, coiling and uncoiling, restless, looking down, waiting for the king to be a king...
speaker1: i must do it myself. i must kill them both. lancelot and guenevere. will you ride with me, merlin?
speaker2: i cannot. i must not. here i must stay.
speaker3: crazy old fool. you think yourself a kingmaker. ha! a meddler, more likely. look what a mess you've made of things.
speaker2: i? perhaps, perhaps. i'm losing interest, morgana... i have helped men--or meddled in their affairs, if you would have it that way--since the dawn of time. now let them live by their own laws. let them stand on their own feet. the gods of once are gone forever, it is time for men... morgana, make a man out of me. kiss me.
speaker3: you know what i want. i want the secret of true magic, how to thicken the stuff of dreams and wishes with the flesh of the world.
speaker2: that i cannot.
speaker3: then i will not.

speaker1: why didn't he kill us? 
speaker2: he has given up.
speaker1: the king without his sword, the land without a king...
speaker2: we are to blame.

speaker1: when arthur built the castle, i carved out a place for myself, where i could laugh or sleep, and no one would bother me. 
speaker2: people make you laugh?
speaker1: they do.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: they don't know how close they live to the edge of delight or disas...
speaker1: happiness or horror.

speaker1: in the folds of the earth where the forces that hold the world together are more alive, my power is strongest. here i will possess you, as a man possesses a woman. and the the eunuch, the mule that i was, will be no more. 
speaker2: you are truly magnificent!
speaker1: flattery! do you think i am ignorant of your stupid little games? preying on you weakness of others. that's your power, a petty evil. mine is great. great plans. impossible dreams. laughable endings...
speaker2: merlin, the powers of summoning, the true name of the charms of doing and undoing. show me!
speaker1: i won't. you would misuse such power. i have paid enough for you, and i will have you.
speaker2: make magic, my foolish wizard. for our love. weave a marvelous room around us, a room worthy of our coupling.
speaker1: what do you want? you must desire it for me to weave it.
speaker2: walls of shining crystals, burning with red fire, furnishings of metals and jewels never seen by man...
speaker1: desire it and it will be as you desire.
speaker2: it's only a semblance. you disappoint me.
speaker1: don't touch the walls. come close to me.
speaker2: do it, merlin, the deepest secret. fix it with the charm of making, for our endless pleasure.
speaker1: for you...

speaker1: has no one seen merlin? 
speaker2: did you see? the king was without excalibur...

speaker1: i'll weep for you, brother, for a king must not weep. 
speaker1: do you know what guenevere's maids have whispered?
speaker1: that when the king returned from battle...
speaker1: ...guenevere would unlace his armor and massage the burns where metal rubbed on flesh...
speaker1: ...she would prepare a bath for you, mixing special ointment in the water...
speaker2: guenevere! you are--
speaker3: --don't speak. a thousand words, a hundred thousand words, would only be prologue to the truth that must be. that you, king, and i, your queen, beget a son to bond our love and to strengthen our weak kingdom with a successor. come, my lord...
speaker1: the moon flows in my blood to meet your seed. and already i bear him who will be king.
speaker1: i could easily kill you, brother. but i want you to live to see our son be king. in me, the blood of cornwall will have its revenge; in me, the blood of uther will show its dark side.

speaker1: who will ride the labyrinths of the forest, to the very root of his soul, to the very ends of the earth, to find the secret that will redeem us from the evil that has fallen upon us, and make this chalice, and ourselves, whole again? 
speaker2: i will ride forth in the name of that quest, and commit my strength and my soul to it.
speaker3: i will go.
speaker1: gawain, a dreadful fear is upon me, that we may never meet again, that the fellowship will be no more...
speaker3: we will find the secret or die.
speaker1: kay, i know your heart yearns to go, but i am prisoner to my duties, and you must be to yours, at my side.

speaker1: look, mordred, a true prize for the giant. the lamb rides into our jaws. 
speaker1: you must kill him, for this knight is dear to your father. you must do it and learn to enjoy your father's pain.
speaker1: have you found what you search for? have you found what arthur seeks?
speaker1: you haven't, or you would be smiling now in the face of death. your quest is an impossible one.
speaker2: that it might be impossible makes it all the more necessary.
speaker1: fool!
speaker1: feel the life through the dagger, child. it belongs to you.
speaker3: i feel it, mother. i will give his blood to the giant.
speaker1: you didn't kill him! you didn't kill him! but suddenly she begins kissing him tenderly.
speaker1: my dear, sweet boy...

speaker1: we'll become good friends. 
speaker2: where are you going, lancelot, in your iron tomb? still trying to save the world? the best... the bravest... the greatest... fool that ever lived. now the world rots. death is king of the earth. and it is you who make it so, lancelot.

speaker1: your son mordred is at the gate. 
speaker2: at last...
speaker1: don't recognize him. you were trapped by morgana's sorcery.
speaker2: ...gawain and perceval, bors and bohort, caradoc and ector, and all the others--lost to me. only the echo of their voices remains in this empty hall. all i have left is the memory of their fellowship. echoes and memories. i am a ghost of the king that once was... ...mordred is real, alive, my own flesh and blood. i will see him, i must.

speaker1: father... 
speaker2: rise, mordred.
speaker1: i have come to claim what is mine, father.
speaker2: i recognize you only as my son, no more.
speaker1: and you are the great king? the lords have rebelled. invaders attack the coasts. crops don't grow. there is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. only i am feared. i will be king. you may have lost excalibur, but i have found my own weapon of power. there.
speaker1: the very spear that pierced the side of christ as he died on the cross.
speaker2: your mother told you that?
speaker2: i cannot offer you the land, only my love...
speaker1: and i offer only this, father. to commit with passion and pleasure all the evils that you failed to commit, as man and king.
speaker1: we will embrace only in battle. father, and i will touch you only with the blade of my spear.
speaker1: i will muster a great force of knights, and i will return to fight for what is mine.
speaker2: so be it.

speaker1: illusions. i will never find it again... i am sorry, woman, that i frightened you. 
speaker1: good woman, do you have any food? some water?...
speaker2: the little we had, we gave to mordred's knights. he has taken this land. tell the king that now we must look to mordred.
speaker3: but we will give you some water...

speaker1: who does it serve? 
speaker2: you, my lord.
speaker1: i have waited long for you. once you almost saw, but fear blinded you. why am i served from the chalice?
speaker2: because you and the land are one.
speaker1: i am wasting away and i cannot die. and i cannot live.
speaker2: you and the land are one. drink from the chalice. you will be reborn and the land with you.
speaker1: but who am i?
speaker2: you are my lord and king. you are arthur.

speaker1: i didn't know how empty was my soul until it was filled. 
speaker2: perceval, you have returned!
speaker1: ready my knights for battle; they will ride with their king once more. i have lived through others far too long! lancelot carried my honor and guenevere my guilt. my knights have fought my causes. mordred carries my sins. now, at last, i will rule.

speaker1: go away. no man is allowed beyond these doors. 
speaker2: i am arthur.

speaker1: guenevere, accept my forgiveness, and put your heart to rest. we have suffered to long. i have always loved you, and i still love you. 
speaker2: i loved you much, as king, and sometimes as husband, but one cannot gaze too long at the sun in the sky.
speaker1: forgive me, my wife, if you can. i was not born to live a man's life, but to be the stuff of future memory. the fellowship was a brief beginning, a fair time that cannot be forgotten; and because it will not be forgotten, that fair time may come again. now once more i must ride with my knights to defend what was, and the dream of what could be.
speaker2: i have kept it.
speaker1: i never dared to hope all these years that it was in your keeping.
speaker1: i have often thought that in the hereafter of our lives, when i owe no more to the future and can be just a man, that we may meet, and you will come to me and claim me as yours, and know that i am your husband. it is a dream i have...

speaker1: it is only me and my son. all other knights of the dukedom have rallied to mordred. 
speaker2: what horror is that?
speaker1: mordred, sir. he digs for precious metals, with which he buys the loyalty of men at arms, binding them to his side.

speaker1: i am outnumbered ten to one by mordred's forces. merlin, i need you at my side as you were once, my friend, to give me courage. there are no war tricks that will fool mordred. he was weaned on blood. 
speaker1: more than i ever did, i need you now. where are you, merlin? is it true that morgana has trapped you?

speaker1: what is this place? it is rumored merlin, that you drew your power from these circles... 
speaker1: quiet. you'll wake the men, and they must fight tomorrow for their very lives.
speaker2: i know. i have heard noises and echoes through the stones...
speaker1: what is this place, merlin?
speaker2: it is like a tree. the roots of the stones spread out across the land and they draw on the thoughts and actions of men. like sap those human matters course through the stones feeding the stars that are the leaves of the tree. and the stars whisper back to men the future course of events. but the earth is being torn apart, its metals stolen, and the balance is broken and the lines of power no longer converge. in fact, i nearly didn't make it in one piece.
speaker2: but, i'm here.
speaker1: where have you been these many years? is it true that morgana--
speaker2: --stories... you brought me back. your love brought me back. back to where you are now, in the land of dreams...
speaker1: is this a dream? tell me, merlin!
speaker1: merlin?!

speaker1: merlin, will i live...? ...i was dreaming... 
speaker2: of merlin?
speaker1: yes. he spoke to me. he said i would fight bravely tomorrow. i have never dreamed of merlin before.
speaker2: i dreamed of him too... merlin lives! he lives in our dreams now, in that dark and shadowy place that is as strong and real as this more solid one. he speaks to us from there.

speaker1: i have returned, enchantress. you are beautiful, magnificent. have you used up all the magic you stole from me to keep yourself young? have you any magic left to do battle with merlin? 
speaker2: you provoke me, merlin.
speaker1: what's behind that beauty? a wizened, cold-hearted snake.
speaker1: you are a snake about to strike!
speaker1: and i am the staff that drives the snake back.
speaker2: burning with the fire of desire, i am the flames that consume the staff to ashes.
speaker1: i am the cloudburst that quenches the flames.
speaker2: i am the desert, where water disappears--
speaker1: --i am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight.
speaker2: --i am the fog and mists that rise up from the sea, escaping...
speaker1: fog and mist! you couldn't be that. you don't have enough magic.

speaker1: a fog is rising, sir. 
speaker2: that cannot be.

speaker1: my mother has a sense for such things. she said there would be no fog. 
speaker1: ...mother?

speaker1: kay, you will lead the attack. perceval, you will stay with me. 
speaker1: be cautious, my brother.
speaker1: in this battle there is one thing i must do, that no one else can. find mordred and kill him. ahead, the horrible din of joined battle.

speaker1: there are too many on mordred's side. we cannot hold out much longer. 
speaker2: he can be no other.
speaker3: lancelot?... it is lancelot!
speaker1: no, my lord. we seek mordred.
speaker2: i will join him.

speaker1: has anyone seen lancelot? 
speaker2: he lies over there, sir.
speaker1: squire! here!
speaker3: arthur.
speaker1: lancelot, i will save you... don't die.
speaker3: my salvation is to die a knight of the round table.
speaker1: you are that and much more. you are its greatest knight, you are what is best in men. now we will be together--
speaker3: --it is the old wound, that has been opened. i have always known it would be the gateway to my death, for it has never healed. let my heart do its job, my king, and pump me empty...
speaker3: guenevere, has she come to you, is she queen again?
speaker1: she is, lancelot.
speaker4: the fog is lifting. only we remain alive.

speaker1: but for mordred. where is mordred? 
speaker2: where is arthur?
speaker1: no, perceval. now it is time for me to raise my sword. mordred, prepare to meet your death.
speaker2: i wait for you, father.
speaker1: draw the spear from me. do it.
speaker1: there is one thing left to do... excalibur... and you must do it, perceval. leave my wounds, i command you.
speaker3: i cannot--
speaker1: --take excalibur. find a pool of calm water and throw the sword into it.
speaker1: obey me, perceval. you must act for me. it is my last order as your king. do it, and be back!

speaker1: when you threw it in, what did you see? 
speaker2: ...i saw nothing.
speaker2: my king, i couldn't do it. excalibur cannot be lost. other men--
speaker1: --by itself it is only a piece of steel. its power comes from he who wields it. for now there is no one. do as i have ordered!

speaker1: arthur! will you return? 
speaker1: all the knights of the round table are dead. excalibur is returned. arthur is gone. maybe he lives, maybe he will return...
speaker1: only i remain, and this...

