speaker1: i believe in the church of baseball. i've tried all the major religions and most of the minor ones -- i've worshipped buddha, allah, brahma, vishnu, shiva, trees, mushrooms, and isadora duncan... 
speaker1: i know things. for instance -- there are 108 beads in a catholic rosary. and -- there are 108 stitches in a baseball. when i learned that, i gave a chance. but it just didn't work out between us. the lord laid too much guilt on me. i prefer metaphysics to theology. you see, there's no guilt in baseball... and it's never boring. annie opens a closet door -- dozens of shoes hang from the
speaker1: which makes it like sex. there's never been a ballplayer slept with me who didn't have the best year of his career. making love is like hitting a baseball -- you just got to relax and concentrate.
speaker1: besides, i'd never sleep with a player hitting under .250 unless he had a lot of r.b.i.'s or was a great glove man up the middle. a woman's got to have standards.
speaker1: the young players start off full of enthusiasm and energy but they don't realize that come july and august when the weather is hot it's hard to perform at your peak level. the veterans pace themselves better. they finish stronger. they're great in september. while i don't believe a woman needs a man to be fulfilled, i do confess an interest in finding the ultimate guy -- he'd have that youthful exuberance but the veteran's sense of timing...
speaker1: y'see there's a certain amount of "life-wisdom" i give these boys. i can expand their minds. sometimes when i've got a ballplayer alone i'll just read emily dickinson or walt whitman to him. the guys are so sweet -- they always stay and listen. of course a guy will listen to anything if he thinks it's foreplay.
speaker1: i make then feel confident. they make me feel safe. and pretty.
speaker1: what i give them lasts a life-time. what they give me lasts 142 games. sometimes it seems like a bad trade. but bad trades are part of baseball -- who can forget frank robinson or milt pappas, for godsakes! it's a long season and you got to trust it.

speaker1: one o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock, rock... four o'clock, five o'clock, six o'clock rock... 
speaker1: seven o'clock, eight o'clock, nine o'clock rock... we're gonna rock around the clock tonight

speaker1: where's ebby? 
speaker2: ain't he warning up?
speaker1: no. the guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
speaker2: better find our bonus baby, eh?
speaker1: seen ebby?
speaker3: nope. skip whirls and heads up the tunnel into the:

speaker1: ebby?! 
speaker1: game starts in four minutes! why ain't you warm?!
speaker2: i am warm.
speaker1: i'm fining you a hundred dollars. ebby, this is your professional debut tonight -- you know how many guys out there'd give blood to be in your shoes an' you're leavin' your fastball in the locker room for some piece of ass!
speaker3: skip, it's me! i'm not some quote piece of unquote.
speaker1: oh, millie, jeez, sorry -- i didn't recognize ya. don't take it personal but if i catch you in here again you're banned from the ballpark.
speaker3: you can't ban me from the ballpark 'cause daddy donated the scoreboard and if you banned me he might take the scoreboard away.
speaker1: whatta we need a scoreboard for? we haven't scored any runs all year get your out there.
speaker2: hey boss, i got a question.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: you think i need a nickname? i think i need a nickname. the great ones have nicknames -- somethin' like oil can or catfish...
speaker1: ya got three minutes.
speaker2: got time for another quickie?
speaker3: you got a game to pitch!
speaker2: but we got three minutes.

speaker1: number twenty-two's thighs are just great. who's he? 
speaker2: jose galindo. he hit .314 at lynchburg last year.
speaker1: three-fourteen? hmmm... look't those thighs, jackson.
speaker3: gonna rock, gonna rock around the clock tonight.

speaker1: let's hear it for max patkin -- 
speaker1: "the greatest show on dirt" -- your own durham bulls!

speaker1: is this guy laloosh worth a hundred grand? i hear he's a quart low? 
speaker2: he's left handed. whattya expect? the bulls are off to a slow start having dropped their first three games, but hope to turn it around tonight with the professional debut of the heralded young left hander, ebby calvin laloosh. stepping in for the peninsula white sox is leadoff hitter willie foster

speaker1: -- millie, you've got to stay out of the clubhouse. it'll just get everybody in trouble. 
speaker2: i got lured.
speaker1: you didn't get "lured". women never get lured. they're too strong and powerful for that. now say it -- "i didn't get lured and i will take responsibility for my actions".
speaker2: "i didn't get lured and i will take responsibility for my actions".
speaker1: that's better. got the radar ready?
speaker3: ready. jackson aims a radar gun at the plate.
speaker4: the word on laloosh is that the good looking young lefty has a major league fastball but sometimes has problems with his control.

speaker1: little high. 
speaker2: c'mon big 'un, you're okay...
speaker3: ninety-five miles an hour.
speaker4: he looks great, just great!

speaker1: what the was that?! lighten up a little. awright? 
speaker2: hey -- what's your name again -- i'm bad with names --
speaker1: ed. you want me to write it on my chest? ...
speaker2: sorry. hey, ed, i got a question.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: who's the beef sitting behind the third base dugout?
speaker1: that's annie savoy. nice eh? but that's more woman than you ever dreamed of, rook. she could kick your and have you for breakfast.

speaker1: take this to ebby in the dugout between innings. 
speaker2: what's it say?
speaker1: it says he's not bending his back on his follow-through.
speaker1: well let's get down to it, honey -- how was he?
speaker3: well, he like he pitches. sorta all over the place

speaker1: hey lefty, hold 'em to 12 runs every night, you'll win 20 -- 
speaker2: had 'em all the way.
speaker3: dear lord, thank you for being with us tonight, thank you for protecting us from injury and --
speaker4: wake up, wake up --
speaker5: this league is racist, man.
speaker6: every time you go 0 for 4 you think the league is racist -- face it, mick, you're an equal opportunity "out".

speaker1: he walked eighteen?! 
speaker2: it's a league record.
speaker1: struck out eighteen...
speaker2: league record.
speaker2: who're you?
speaker3: i am the player to be named later.
speaker1: crash davis?
speaker3: the crash davis. and you, larry hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the texas league when you were pitching for el paso and i was hitting cleanup for shreveport, you hung a curve on an 0-2 pitch of a 3-2 game in bottom of the 8th and i tattooed it over the goodyear tire sign, beat you 4-3 -- and i got a free wheel alignment from goodyear.
speaker2: oh yeah. i shoulda throwed a slider. damn, crash, how're ya?
speaker1: i'm joe riggins. sit down
speaker3: i'm too old for this why the am i back in "a" ball?
speaker1: 'cause of ebby calvin laloosh. the big club's got a hundred grand in him --
speaker2: he's got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
speaker1: -- we had the gun on him tonight -- the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97. he's got the best young arm i've seen in 30 years.
speaker2: but he ain't quite sure which plane he's on, y'know what i mean...
speaker1: you been around, you're smart, you're professional, you know what it takes -- we want you to mature the kid.
speaker3: "mature" ain't a verb.
speaker2: you go to college or what?
speaker1: we want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year. he can go all the way.
speaker3: and where can i go?
speaker1: you can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it. beats outta working at sears.
speaker2: sears crash, i tried it once. sold lady kenmores -- it's nasty, nasty work.
speaker1: even if it's the carolina league -- this is a chance to play everyday.
speaker3: you don't want a player, you want a stable pony. my triple a contract gets bought out so i can hold the flavor o' the month's in the bus leagues?! this game... i quit. crash rises to leave -- picks up his luggage, and turns to skip and larry before exiting. a deep breath
speaker3: who we play tomorrow?
speaker1: winston-salem. batting practice at

speaker1: you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: yeah, ed, shut the door...
speaker2: this is the toughest job a manager has, ed... but the organization has decided to make a change -- we're releasing you from your contract...

speaker1: how's it feel to get your first professional win? 
speaker2: it feels "out there". a major rush. i mean it doesn't just feel "out there" but it feels out there.
speaker3: hopeless. utterly hopeless.

speaker1: hi, i'm millie. 
speaker2: i'm tony. i play left field.
speaker1: i know.
speaker3: love the game, annie, love it when i die i'm gonna have my ashes sprinkled around a pitcher's mound in some ballpark somewhere -- -- and i'll have a few ashes saved for the rosin bag so i'll still be in the game after i'm gone.
speaker4: what a sweet idea --
speaker4: we didn't order this, honey...
speaker5: he did.
speaker4: who's that?
speaker3: hey -- that's crash davis. he's played in more towns than i have. helluva guy -- real different... i actually saw him read a book without pictures once
speaker4: really? kinda cute...
speaker6: i'm crash davis.
speaker4: annie savoy. wanta dance?
speaker6: i don't dance.
speaker4: i don't trust a man who don't dance. it ain't natural.
speaker3: who's he dancing with?
speaker4: all of 'em, i think...
speaker7: thanks for the note -- you're right, i wasn't bending my back.
speaker4: you got a live arm there.
speaker7: ebby calvin laloosh.
speaker4: you need a nickname.
speaker7: that's what i been telling everybody! wanta dance?
speaker6: she's dancing with me.
speaker4: crash, i didn't think you --
speaker6: i'll learn. c'mon --
speaker7: just a minute, pal...
speaker4: you boys gonna fight over little me? crash rises, pulling annie with him. but -- ebby stands to challenge crash.
speaker7: step outside, pal.
speaker6: love to --
speaker4: oh don't be such guys --
speaker4: hell, max, wanta dance?

speaker1: i don't believe in fighting. 
speaker2: pussy.
speaker1: take the first shot at me.
speaker2: i ain't hitting a man first.
speaker1: hit me in the chest with this...
speaker2: i'd kill ya.
speaker1: from what i hear you couldn't hit a bull in the with a slingshot
speaker2: don't try me.
speaker1: throw it. c'mon, right in the chest.
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: c'mon, meat. you can't hit me 'cause you're starting to think about it already, you're starting to think how embarrassing it'll be to miss, how all these people would laugh. c'mon, rook -- show me that million dollar arm 'cause i'm getting a good idea about the five cent head --
speaker1: ball four.
speaker2: who the are you?!
speaker1: i'm crash davis. your new catcher. and you just got lesson number one -- "don't think -- it can only hurt the ballclub". buy ya a drink?

speaker1: we fight, she gets the clown -- how's that happen? 
speaker2: shut up -- i like this song... april in paris, this is a feeling, no one can ever reprieve...
speaker1: she's playing with my mind.
speaker2: it's a easy thing to play with.
speaker3: well -- you boys stopped fighting yet? are you pals now? good. i love a little macho male bonding -- i think it's sweet even if it's probably latent homosexuality being "re- channeled" but i believe in "re- channeling" so who cares, right? shall we go to my place?
speaker1: which one of us?
speaker3: oh both of you, of course...

speaker1: these are the ground rules. i hook up with one guy a season -- i mean it takes me a couple of weeks to pick the guy -- kinda my own spring training... and, well, you two are the most promising prospects of the season so far. so... i thought we should get to know each other. 
speaker2: why do you get to choose? why don't i get to choose?
speaker1: actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. it's all quantum physics and molecular attraction. there are laws we don't understand that bring us together and break us apart.
speaker3: is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
speaker1: you're a regular nuclear meltdown, honey -- slow down. crash rises to leave, and heads for the door.
speaker2: after 12 years in the minor leagues, i don't tryout. besides -- i don't believe in, quantum physics when it comes to matters of the heart... or loins.
speaker1: what do you believe in?
speaker2: i believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of thomas pynchon are self-indulgent, overrated crap. i believe that lee harvey oswald acted alone, i believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astro-turf and the designated hitter, i believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on christmas morning rather than christmas eve, and i believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
speaker1: oh my... don't leave...
speaker2: g'night.
speaker3: hey -- what's all this molecule stuff?
speaker1: wait, crash -- don't go -- all i want is a date. i'm not gonna fall in love with you or nothin'.
speaker2: i'm not interested in a woman who's interested in that boy.
speaker1: i'm not interested yet.
speaker3: who you calling a "boy"?
speaker2: see ya at the yard, meat.
speaker1: no ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
speaker3: well then, let's

speaker1: wait, honey, slow down -- i want to watch. 
speaker1: no, no, no. put it back on and take it off slowly.
speaker2: what kinda broad are you?
speaker1: when you know how to make love, you'll know how to pitch. shh. i love this part.
speaker1: oh my -- what a nice back.
speaker1: no, no, honey... first the shoes and socks.
speaker2: the socks? it's cold in here.
speaker1: you think dwight gooden leaves his socks on?
speaker1: ebby honey have you ever been handcuffed in bed?

speaker1: awright! i read about stuff like this. bring it on! 
speaker2: sweetie, have you ever heard of walt whitman?
speaker1: who's he play for?
speaker2: well, he sort of pitches for the cosmic all-stars.
speaker1: never heard of 'em.
speaker2: good -- then listen. "i sing the body electric. the armies of those i love engirth me and i engirth them -- "
speaker1: we gonna or what?
speaker2: shh, shh... "they will not let me off till i go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"

speaker1: listen up, guys, could i have your attention a minute? i'm going to be leading a daily chapel service at three in the afternoons here in the locker room and you're all invited to drop by and worship before batting practice. 
speaker2: jimmy, it -- loosen up and get laid.
speaker1: i don't care if you think i'm square but i believe what i believe. all heads turn as:
speaker2: ebby, what truck ran over you?
speaker3: call me "nuke". annie said it's my new nickname.
speaker4: annie nailed you? that's great, means you're gonna have a helluva year. does she as good as they say?
speaker3: we didn't do it, man -- she read poetry to me all night, i swear. it's more tiring than
speaker3: -- of love"... hey, crash, does that mean what i think it means? what's the deal here?
speaker5: your shower shoes have fungus on 'em. you'll never get to the bigs with fungus on your shower shoes. think classy and you'll be classy. if you win 20 in the show you can let the fungus grow back on your shower shoes and the press'll think you're colorful. until you win twenty in the show, however, it means you're a slob.

speaker1: this guy's bringing some serious smoke out there. 
speaker2: he ain't got
speaker2: you ain't getting that cheese by me, meat.
speaker2: look for the fastball up. he's gotta come with the cheese. relax. relax. quick bat. pop the clubhead. open the hips. relax. you're thinking too much. get outta your head, crash.
speaker2: get on top of the ball. quick bat. don't let him in your kitchen --
speaker2: you stupid crash. what're you swinging at a breaking ball for? why's he starting me off with a hammer? me. you're okay. stay back. stay back, you wait. wait.

speaker1: throw that again, meat. throw that weak now he's gotta try to slip the cheese by me. one and one. you're on top. now bring me the gas -- 
speaker1: this son of a throws hard. annie, annie, annie -- who is this annie? get outta the box you where's your head? get the broad outta your head.
speaker1: time out.
speaker2: time out!
speaker3: get a hit, crash.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker1: awright, awright. you've seen all his pitches. two and one. relax. wait. quick bat. you can hit this --
speaker1: shorten up. bring the gas... be quick -- be quick -- yeah, yeah...

speaker1: serious heat, eh? 
speaker2: he ain't got
speaker3: from annie.
speaker2: read it.
speaker3: dear crash. you have a lovely swing but you're pulling your hips out too early. i'd be happy to meet you at the batting cage tomorrow to discuss it. signed, annie.
speaker1: well if there's one chick'd know when you're pulling your hips out early, annie's the one.

speaker1: what'd he say? 
speaker2: it says... "i want to -- make... love to you. crash".
speaker1: oh my...

speaker1: see my hips? 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: i think thomas pynchon's a genius.
speaker2: when you're hitting you shouldn't think about anything but hitting. but you shouldn't think about it too much. the trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
speaker1: but you were pulling your hips last night.
speaker2: so... wanta make love?
speaker1: i'm committed to nuke for the season. you had your chance the other night.
speaker2: what'you see in that guy -- he's dim, pretty boy. a young, wild...
speaker1: young men are uncomplicated. and he's not "dim". he's just inexperienced. my job is to give him "life-wisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
speaker2: that's my job too.
speaker1: 
speaker2: you're pulling your hips out.
speaker1: but they're nice hips. i looked up your records -- you've hit 227 home runs in the minors. that's great!
speaker2: don't tell anybody.
speaker1: why not? if you hit twenty homers this year you'll be the all time minor league champ! the record's...
speaker2: 247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about it.
speaker1: oh no, i think it'd be great! the sporting news should know about it.
speaker2: no. please.
speaker1: 
speaker2: let me.
speaker2: your place or mine?
speaker1: despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most judao- christian ethics, i am, within the framework of a baseball season, monogamous.
speaker2: fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause it might be real so you sabotage it with some about commitment to a young boy you can boss around -- great deal. you get to write self- indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing -- so what do you really want? you wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the of magic? or do you want a guy?
speaker1: oh crash... you do make speeches...
speaker3: hey, are you crash davis! can i have a autograph?!
speaker2: well, annie, your place or mine?
speaker1: you got me all confused.
speaker2: a batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing --
speaker1: i'm not a real batter. i'm a woman.
speaker4: hey, when are you guys gonna start winning? you're terrible!
speaker1: it's a long season, boys.
speaker5: hey! what're you guys doing here -- stealing my girl?
speaker2: now, nuke, would i do a thing like that? hey kids, this is the great ebby calvin "nuke" laloosh.
speaker6: it's nuke, it's nuke! can i have your autograph?! etc.
speaker5: no prob, kids --
speaker2: see you guys at the ballpark.

speaker1: yes, yes, yesnmmmmyes... oh my... oh, that was just fabulous, crash. 
speaker2: crash?
speaker2: you mean nuke. you said "crash".
speaker1: i didn't say "crash". i said nuke.
speaker2: you said "crash".
speaker1: honey, don't ever listen to a woman when she's making love. they'll say the strangest things.
speaker2: you said "crash".
speaker1: would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
speaker2: yeah maybe you're right.
speaker1: you see how nice things are when we go slow?
speaker2: mmm, hmmm. you shoulda seen how many people came to the airport to see me off. when i got drafted first it was the happiest day of my father's life. he likes baseball more than i do...
speaker1: you can learn to like it.
speaker2: i wanted to be the host of dance fever, somethin' like that...
speaker1: y'know if you make it to the bigs you could still become the host of dance fever. baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
speaker2: i never thought of that.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of durham, the honorable mutt clark... 
speaker2: welcome to the "atlantic seaboard tobacco growers city council little league cash drop night"!

speaker1: drive off your back leg. you pitch with your legs as much as your arms -- 
speaker2: i thought i was --
speaker1: don't think.

speaker1: hi, i'm millie. 
speaker2: i'm married.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker3: chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
speaker2: you a witch?
speaker3: yes. a switch hitting witch. very common in puerto rico.
speaker2: will that work for me?
speaker3: if you believe in voodoo.
speaker2: i'm 0 for 16! gimme some of that
speaker3: no, that is not belief. that is desperation.
speaker2: c'mon, it, gimme some!

speaker1: don't try to strike everybody out. strikeouts are boring. they're fascist. throw some ground balls, it's more democratic. 
speaker2: what's this guy know, eh? if he's so great why's he been in the minors for ten years? and if he's so hot how come annie wants me instead of him.
speaker1: and listen, meat. you don't know if you want to get to the show, you'll listen to me. she only wants you 'cause she can boss you around, got it? relax, have a ball out here. this game's fun, okay? fun, it. and don't squeeze the ball so tight. it's an egg. hold it like an egg. crash smiles -- and trots back to the plate.
speaker2: fun? what's he know about fun? why's he calling for a curveball? i wanta bring heat.
speaker1: shake off the pitch. throw what you wanta.
speaker1: why you shaking me off?
speaker2: i wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
speaker1: "to announce your presence with authority"? this guy's a first ball fastball hitter. he's looking for heat.
speaker2: but he ain't seen my heat --
speaker1: awright, meat, give him your heat.
speaker1: fastball.
speaker2: why's he always call me "meat"? i'm the guy driving a porsche. nuke winds up and delivers -- a fastball.
speaker1: what're you lookin' at?! you're showing up my pitcher, bush -- get your in gear!
speaker1: guy hit the outta that one, eh?
speaker2: well, i held it like an egg.
speaker1: an' he scrambled the son of a having fun yet?
speaker2: i'm having a blast. that sucker teed off on it just like he knew i was gonna throw a fastball.
speaker1: he did know.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: i told him.
speaker2: don't think. just throw. don't think. just throw.
speaker2: that was beautiful. what'd i do?

speaker1: oh dear... easy honey... 
speaker2: ninety-five miles an hour...

speaker1: christ, skip and larry are talking about me. don't get anybody warm in the pen yet. i'm okay. i'm having fun. 
speaker1: don't yank me in the first, man.
speaker1: aw, the manager and crash meet nuke on the mound.
speaker2: relax.
speaker1: don't pull me, skip. i'll settle down. i'm okay!
speaker2: relax, nuke, relax... what kinda stuff's he got?
speaker3: i don't know. i haven't caught anything yet.
speaker2: what're you thinking about out here, nuke?
speaker1: i'm trying not to think.
speaker2: good. but just 'cause you ain't s'posed to think don't mean you ain't s'posed to use your head.
speaker3: have some fun, it.

speaker1: anybody not outta the shower in ten seconds gonna get fined a hundred bucks. one, two... 
speaker1: no press for five minutes, whitey.
speaker2: i'm doing a column on the myth of sisyphus as manifest in a minor league losing streak, joe, and i thought...
speaker1: if i ever need a brain transplant i'll choose a sportswriter 'cause that way i'd be getting a brain that's never been used.
speaker1: what're you laughing at?! silence.
speaker1: you guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout. you know what that makes ya lollygaggers. what's our record, larry?
speaker3: we're eight and sixteen.
speaker1: eight and sixteen?! how'd we ever win eight? jose, what's this sign?
speaker4: that's the steal.
speaker1: wrong. that's the bunt. this is the steal.
speaker1: face is "skin to skin". skin starts with "s". "s" stands for steal if it follows the indicator which is hand to eye 'cause the word "indicator" starts with an "i" so i figure "eye" -- -- would remind you of "i" for indicator to indicate that what follows is the sign. i figure wrong -- you're a buncha lollygaggers. this is a simple game. ya throw the ball, ya hit the ball, ya catch the ball.

speaker1: bobby went hitless again. he's gonna be in a terrible mood... terrible. how'd mickey do? 
speaker2: he got two hits.
speaker1: lucky you.

speaker1: you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: yeah, bobby, shut the door. this is the toughest job a manager has... but the organization has decided to make a change --
speaker1: skip, i know i'm in a slump but i hit the ball hard tonight, right at 'em. a couple flares drop in, and i'm back in the groove!

speaker1: there's daddy! wave to daddy! 
speaker1: oh

speaker1: i want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they'll fit snugly against your in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differently -- plus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
speaker2: annie, i don't know --
speaker1: you've been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain. these'll help move things to the right side.
speaker2: big league pitchers don't use these.
speaker1: they did when they were in the carolina league.

speaker1: i got one word to say to you -- shut up! silence. 
speaker2: oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress...
speaker3: gimme that.
speaker3: i hate people who get the words wrong. it ain't "woolly" it's "weary" and it nobody's got stress, they're wearing a dress. listen.
speaker3: oh she may be weary, young girls do get weary, wearing the same old dress...
speaker2: how come you don't like me?
speaker3: 'cause you don't respect yourself, which is your problem, but you don't respect the game -- and that's my problem. you got a gift.
speaker2: what do i got?
speaker3: a gift. when you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
speaker3: you got a hall of fame arm but you're it away.
speaker2: i ain't nothing away -- i got a porsche already. a 944 with a.c. and a quadraphonic blaupunkt.
speaker3: you don't need a quadraphonic blaupunkt -- you need a curve ball. in the show, everybody can hit the fastball.
speaker2: you been in the majors?
speaker3: yep.
speaker3: i was in the show for 21 days, once. it was the greatest 21 days of my life. you never touch your luggage in the show -- somebody else handles your bags. it's great. the ballparks are like cathedrals, the hotels all have room service, the women have long legs and brains -- it's a smorgasbord.
speaker4: the women are hot, eh?
speaker3: yeah -- and so are the pitchers. they throw ungodly breaking stuff in the show -- exploding sliders.
speaker3: you could be one of those guys -- but you don't give a meat.
speaker2: it i'm sick of you calling me "meat"! you wanta step outside!
speaker3: yeah, let's go.
speaker2: no. wait a minute. calm down, crash...
speaker2: teach me how to throw a breaking ball.
speaker3: as i was saying ya hold it like an egg. as the bus rolls through the country:

speaker1: ...double off the wall by higgins, and once again the durham pitchers are unable to get the first out of the inning... 
speaker1: line drive to center -- a diving stab by mcfee -- ohhhh! ball gets by his glove, another run in and the crowd loves it -- punches a cassette -- a crowd roars.

speaker1: ice skaters. look't em. that's what we need, y'know -- one night with some skaters and we can get back on track... 
speaker2: we need a night off just to stop our losing streak. we need a rainout.
speaker3: i can get us a rainout.
speaker4: it's 90 degrees, there ain't been a cloud in the sky in weeks.
speaker3: hundred bucks says i can get us a rainout tomorrow.
speaker1: you're on.

speaker1: it! vandals. kids! 
speaker2: we can't get it ready by game time, boss.
speaker1: call the radio and the paper. the game's been rained out.

speaker1: par--ty! i blew a whole day's meal money for this champagne seven dollars, man, it better be good. 
speaker2: for seven bucks it better be some serious
speaker3: what time is it, eh? when are they coming?

speaker1: this is from tony for the rainout. c'mon, man, let's go to the party. 
speaker2: naw...
speaker1: "naw"? there's ice skaters coming! you ever made love to an ice skater?
speaker2: by the dozen. holiday on ice, ice capades, ice follies -- i'm through with one night stands.
speaker1: you're through with one night stands?! what do you want?
speaker2: i just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuries -- and go home to a woman who appreciates how full of i truly am.
speaker1: you're weird, man -- i want a ice skater real bad.
speaker2: go for it.
speaker1: if i get laid, you won't tell annie?
speaker2: i won't have to.

speaker1: it's them, it's them! be casual. come in! 
speaker2: hey, guys, pa--rty!
speaker3: shut up and be cool, man. like mickey there...
speaker4: you wanta make it to the show, rock, you gotta learn how to "lounge".
speaker2: how's this?
speaker4: you got it.
speaker3: entre.
speaker5: pa--rty!

speaker1: do you think your husband plays around on the road trips? 
speaker2: no way. well... do we have to talk about that?
speaker1: i guess not... it's just that once i asked mickey if he was faithful to me on the road trips and he said "in his heart he was faithful". what the does that mean?
speaker2: it means he's unfaithful -- but only a man would put it in those words.

speaker1: i just got one word to say to everybody -- shut up! 
speaker1: nuke -- get everybody in here. hundred dollar fine anybody's not here in five.

speaker1: get your holy in room 401. 
speaker1: hundred dollar fine if you're not in 401 in five.
speaker2: hundred dollars?!
speaker3: christ. sorry ladies...
speaker4: go to hell! you're in last place anyway!

speaker1: crash! skip wants everybody in 401 for a team meeting. hundred buck fine if ya don't show! 
speaker2: party without me.
speaker1: -- what a big league move.

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker2: we're ice skaters. can we go now?
speaker1: no. i want you to hear my philosophy. it'll do you some good here it is. this is a simple game. you throw the ball, you hit the ball, you catch the ball. you got that?!
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: are you lovely creatures aware that you are about to compromise yourselves with a buncha bums who are -- -- what are we?
speaker3: eight and twenty-four.
speaker1: eight and twenty-four! how'd we ever win 8 games?
speaker3: it's a miracle.
speaker1: look, guys -- i'm a man, i got needs too. i understand this party -- but... is the one thing you can get further behind in and catch up faster than anything i know. there's a baseball lesson in there somewhere. where's crash?
speaker4: he can't make it. here's his fine.
speaker1: aw christ, he don't have to come. he's hitting .350.
speaker5: don't you think that's a double standard -- we're here and he ain't?
speaker1: i believe in a double standard for guys hitting .350. look, men -- you got a choice. you wanta be roasting your nuts off for midas muffler welding exhaust pipes up the of cadillacs... or -- you wanta be sitting in the caddy while some other guy's crawling around in a monkey suit with a blow torch? there's only two places you can be in life -- in the caddy or under it. these are the best years of your lives. these are the glamor days. it don't got any better than this. but... if this club don't start winning soon, there's gonna be changes made!

speaker1: deke was a great player in high school. i thought held go right to the major leagues -- i was gonna be a big league wife. pass the pampers, please. 
speaker2: helluva guy -- silence.
speaker3: can i ask you something?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: what would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
speaker2: if he had a good breaking ball, i'd respect the outta him. crash turns off the light.

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: wake up, it's okay... you're dreaming...
speaker1: i was playing naked.
speaker2: i know, i know -- i have that dream all the time. we're almost home.

speaker1: what is this "i, i, i" stuff? you only talk about yourself? aren't you glad to see me? don't i look nice? 
speaker2: sorry. you look great. i'm totally exhausted.
speaker1: good. total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous. let's play catch.
speaker2: catch?

speaker1: hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe-- 
speaker2: that's not necessary, jackson -- okay, nuke, now lean in for the sign.
speaker3: this in ridiculous. i'm a pro.
speaker2: just do what i say. now, which nostril are you breathing through?
speaker3: which nostril am i breathing through?
speaker2: the right nostril. good.
speaker3: my right nostril?
speaker2: there are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida". the pingala starts with the left and ends at the right nostril.
speaker2: the ida originates at the right and terminates at the left nostril.
speaker3: i'm really beat. i need some serious "z's" --
speaker2: the pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball. and if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
speaker3: switch nostrils?
speaker2: right. okay, fire a couple in there.
speaker2: you're patronizing me! i will not be patronized --
speaker3: if i throw too hard i'll hurt the kid.
speaker2: he's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and six.
speaker3: how was that?
speaker2: a little better.
speaker3: gimme the ball!
speaker3: how ya like that?
speaker2: much better. your delivery was fully integrated because you weren't thinking about it 'cause you were off at me. this is progress.
speaker3: i give up. let's go inside, make love, and fall asleep till it's time to go to the ballpark.
speaker2: or... ...we could just take that sexual energy and save it for a few hours and re-channel it into your pitching tonight. c'mon, jackson, i've got some lemonade! jackson runs over in full gear to join them.
speaker3: i can't keep up with you. first you say is gonna make me a better pitcher -- now no is gonna do it?!
speaker2: it's all the same thing.
speaker3: what's that?!
speaker2: that's max. his ashes anyway. he left no kin...
speaker3: i think i'm gonna be sick --
speaker2: oh don't be silly. death is nothing to be scared of. it's just another way of living. it's just a fresh start -- kinda like spring training.
speaker3: death is like spring training?
speaker2: yes. and so is birth. now look me in the eyes, nuke -- you haven't been wearing my panties, have you?

speaker1: hot. very hot... 
speaker2: annie says her will keep one side of my brain occupied while i'm on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers. she also said i should throw whatever pitches you call for.
speaker1: annie's a smart lady.
speaker3: hey, fruit alert! check out the rook.
speaker2: annie says there's no such thing as straight and gay. we're all sexual creatures to start with, and we get formed into certain roles.
speaker4: you believe that?
speaker2: when i'm one and six i'll believe anything. annie also says that is a woman. you believe that, crash, you think a lady?
speaker1: definitely a woman -- but she's no lady.
speaker4: this is all commie has a dick, man.
speaker5: it, jimmy, you're an expert -- does have a or a pussy?
speaker6: the lord is tri-une -- father, son, and holy ghost.
speaker4: father and son. awright!
speaker7: yeah, but he is a brother.
speaker4: ain't no brother!
speaker3: if there is a why am i hitting
speaker8: suddenly skip and larry appear to restore order.
speaker9: shut up! this is a noisy clubhouse for a team that's lost 15 straight. silence.
speaker9: patkin was a tribute to baseball...
speaker10: ...and one helluva guy.

speaker1: these feel great. that don't make me queer, right? right. whoo. breaking ball. 
speaker1: i ain't queer. i know i ain't... fastball.

speaker1: ninety-three miles an hour. 
speaker2: he looks wonderful, jackson...
speaker3: fastball again? why's he want the heat -- i just threw heat. don't think, meat -- give 'em the gas.

speaker1: -- what's got into nuke? 
speaker2: i heard he's wearing women's underwear -- and he's breathing through his pingala nostril.
speaker3: annie's got a great ass... how come her fit me? that's one of the mysteries of i guess...

speaker1: i was great, eh? 
speaker2: your fastball was up and your curveball was hanging -- in the show they woulda ripped you.
speaker1: can't you let me enjoy the moment?
speaker2: the moment's over. if this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, i'm going downtown --

speaker1: i dare you to throw me the hammer -- you ain't that stupid... 
speaker1: breaking ball -- you fool!

speaker1: hey, i'm cruisin', man -- what're you doing out here?! 
speaker2: i want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
speaker1: why?! i'm finally throwin' the thing where i want to.
speaker2: it'll keep the fear of in the hitters. trust me.
speaker1: you're the boss. crash returns to the plate -- flashes a sign.
speaker3: -- a staggering start by laloosh -- he's thrown 5 cuts on 9 pitches, all of them strikes -- he's got pin point control here tonight, bull fans... here's the pitch --

speaker1: this guy's crazy. 
speaker2: yep. next one might be at your head. if i know where the thing's going...

speaker1: -- top of the ninth, two outs, one out away from a stunning two hit shutout for laloosh... 
speaker2: bear down, meat, don't let up. you own these guys. dad'll love a shutout...

speaker1: no, no -- this guy's looking for heat -- lemme give him the deuce -- 
speaker2: oh no -- he's shaking off the sign, jackson. big mistake...
speaker3: he'll learn.

speaker1: this son of a is throwing a two hit shutout and he's shaking me off?! hey charlie, here comes the deuce. 
speaker2: you told him i was throwing a deuce, right?
speaker1: yep. he really crushed that dinger, didn't he. musta gone 450 feet...

speaker1: i'm yours. 
speaker2: y'know, annie, i been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it'll work for a whole buncha games.
speaker1: breathing through your pingala always works, honey --
speaker2: not that. i mean the re-channeling of my sexual energy. maybe we shouldn't make love for awhile.
speaker1: now don't go overboard, i look incredibly hot, right?
speaker2: you know what it feels like to throw a three hitter? we better not
speaker1: nuke?!
speaker2: just till i lose.
speaker1: get over here.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: ebby calvin "nuke" laloosh --

speaker1: nuke was so encouraged that he took a vow to not have until they lost... 
speaker1: y'see a ballplayer on a streak considers himself touched with magic and he'll do anything to keep from breaking the spell...

speaker1: i figured nuke would win a couple, then lose, and things would get back to normal... 
speaker1: but it didn't happen like that... and for one extraordinary june and july, the durham bulls, for whatever perverse reason, began playing baseball with joy and verve and poetry --
speaker1: the two sides of my own brain were all jumbled up and cross-wired... while one side was being neglected, the other was in paradise watching our bulls play like big leaguers...

speaker1: we swept a four game series with kingston, back to back doubleheaders with winston-salem, and kicked the holy out of greensboro in a three game series... 
speaker1: they were in demand all over town -- and crash, who kept hitting dingers, was approaching the minor league record... though i told nobody. crash blasts another home run -- another win.
speaker1: after sweeping a july 4 doubleheader, the durham bulls were tied for first.
speaker1: but beautiful as the winning streak was, i was getting lonely. something had to be done. i needed a man...

speaker1: i love winning, crash, you hear me? i love it. teach me everything. 
speaker2: it's time you started working on your interviews.
speaker1: what do i gotta do?
speaker2: learn your clichã©s. study them. know them. they're your friends.
speaker2: write this down. "we gotta play 'em one day at a time."
speaker1: boring.
speaker2: of course. that's the point. "i'm just happy to be here and hope i can help the ballclub."
speaker1: 
speaker2: write, write -- "i just wanta give it my best shot and, good lord willing, things'll work out." nuke starts writing them down.
speaker1: "...good lord willing, things'll work out."
speaker2: yep. so how's annie?
speaker1: she's getting steamed 'cause i'm still re-channeling my sexual energy -- maybe i should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down. what'ya think?
speaker2: you outta your mind? if you give in now you might start losing. never with a winning streak. nuke nods seriously, listening to the master.

speaker1: hi, jimmy. want a ride? 
speaker2: have you accepted christ as your personal savior?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: can i give you my testimony?
speaker1: you can do anything you want. hop in.

speaker1: i'm so proud of you and all the guys. want some more soup? 
speaker2: no, no, it was great.
speaker1: how 'bout a back rub?
speaker2: no, that's okay. all i need's a little nap.
speaker1: i'll tuck you in.
speaker2: you can't seduce me.
speaker1: i'm not gonna try to seduce you, sweetie...
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: that's my leg.
speaker2: i know what it is.
speaker1: i figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we don't make love.
speaker2: fundamentals?
speaker1: sure. unsnap my stockings.
speaker2: crash once called a woman's, uh -- -- y'know how the hair kinda makes a "v" shape? --
speaker1: yes i do...
speaker2: well -- he calls it the bermuda triangle. he said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from again.
speaker1: what a nasty thing to say.
speaker2: he didn't mean it nasty. he said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do -- especially like that.
speaker1: oh...
speaker1: watch... one hand --
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: now you try.
speaker1: mmmmmmm... oh yes...
speaker2: no! you're playing with my mind!
speaker1: i'm trying to play with your body!
speaker2: i knew it -- you're seducing me!
speaker1: of course i'm seducing you for godsakes, and i'm doing a poor job of it -- aren't i pretty?
speaker2: i think you're real cute.
speaker1: cute?! i hate cute! baby ducks are cute! i wanta be exotic and mysterious!
speaker2: you're exotic and mysterious and cute -- that's why i better leave.
speaker1: nuke! you got things all wrong! there's no relation between and baseball. ask crash.
speaker2: i did.
speaker1: what'd he say?
speaker2: he said if i gave in to you i'd start losing again.
speaker1: he did?
speaker2: i'll be back when we lose.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: crash... i want you.
speaker1: nuke won't go to bed with you, eh?
speaker2: he's confused --
speaker1: aren't we all?
speaker2: don't you think i'm pretty?
speaker1: you're gorgeous, it! from the moment i first saw you i knew i had to have you. i had to have you!
speaker2: i want to be had.
speaker1: i think of you and the "boy" all the time.
speaker2: he won't make love to me anymore.
speaker1: and he's right! a ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. they don't happen very often. you know how hard this game is? if you believe you're playing well because you're getting laid or because you're not getting laid or because you wore red silk -- then you are! and i still think thomas pynchon is full of
speaker2: i want you desperately!
speaker1: who are you? do you have a job?
speaker2: i teach part time at the junior college. what if i told you i was through with nuke? he learned his lessons quickly and left me.
speaker1: and now you wanta teach me?
speaker2: i don't imagine there's much i could teach you.
speaker1: i doubt that.
speaker2: crash, i get wet just thinking about you.
speaker1: i thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
speaker2: i'm ready for a complicated man.
speaker1: -- and as soon as we lose a game, he'll be back in your arms.
speaker2: i said when i think about you, i get wet.
speaker1: annie, i think you should leave.
speaker2: you -- what is happening? is there no man who'll have me? this is the weirdest season i ever saw -- the durham bulls can't lose and i can't get laid!
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: i need a drink.

speaker1: why baseball? 
speaker2: i was raised in a baptist church got dipped in the water when i was 5 -- born again before kindergarten... by the time i was 10 i knew it was and at 15 i ran away from home...
speaker2: pregnant, had an abortion, got pregnant again, had an abortion again... gave up men. tried women. missed men. my mother died. i bought a car for $200 and drove to ft. lauderdale to bury her. and after we'd sung some hymns in some wretched florida funeral home, i went outside and something happened -- her tone becomes wistful, nostalgic.
speaker2: i crossed the street -- it was the new york yankees spring training field -- tok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat -- and i sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother... and i saw him.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: thurman munson. he was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybody -- it was beautiful... and he called the ump a and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition! so i stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about baseball.
speaker1: what's so great about baseball?
speaker2: if you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else -- 'cause they're always in the same place in relation to home. don't you see? if you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is!
speaker1: i don't know if i'd go that far.
speaker2: it's true, it's true! least it used to be true. it ain't possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, crash?
speaker1: it's possible.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're

speaker1: well... i used to think that wasn't the worst thing in the world to look forward to. lately i'm not so sure. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker3: annie, annie! there she is -- we've been looking all over for ya. hi crash.
speaker3: well tell 'em, honey.
speaker4: we're getting married.
speaker1: omigawd, honey, i'm so happy for you.
speaker3: he's a virgin.
speaker4: well, yeah... i guess that probably seems pretty corny to people like you.
speaker1: oh jimmy, honey, i think it sounds wonderful!
speaker3: annie, will you be the bride's maid?

speaker1: nuke's overthrowing tonight, he don't look loose. anything bothering him? 
speaker2: he said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong nostril.
speaker1: okay...

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: i'm nervous -- my old man's here. nuke motions -- they both look.
speaker1: hey, he's just your father, man -- he's as full of as anybody.
speaker3: what the hell's going on?
speaker4: you breathing through the wrong nostril again?
speaker3: hey, you guys hear jimmy and millie are engaged?! wait'll i tell him she's gone down on half the carolina league --
speaker1: anybody says anything bad about millie, i'll break his neck.
speaker2: hey, guys, i got a game to pitch.
speaker5: don't throw anything to me -- my girlfriend put a curse on my glove.
speaker2: i'll take the curse off the son of a
speaker5: then you got to cut the head off a live rooster.
speaker2: 
speaker6: don't worry, man, this umpire's a racist.

speaker1: what the hell's going on out there? 
speaker2: it's a convention.
speaker1: check it out.
speaker2: what the hell's going on out here?
speaker3: nuke's scared cause his nostrils are jammed and his old man's here, we need a live rooster to take the curse off jose's glove, and nobody knows what to get jimmy and millie for their wedding present -- there's a whole lotta we're trying to deal with --
speaker2: oh. i thought there was a problem.

speaker1: you should be at the game. 
speaker2: no, no -- i'm fine. millie, how much time did you and jimmy spend together before he proposed?
speaker1: five hours. we both just know. do you think i deserve to wear white?
speaker2: we all deserve to wear white.
speaker3: ...line drive up the alley's gonna score at least two, here comes the relay --

speaker1: i got him on the knee! 
speaker2: you missed him!
speaker1: it, jack, he still ain't touched the plate.
speaker2: don't bump me.
speaker1: it was a call!
speaker2: did you call me a cocksucker?
speaker1: no! i said it was a cock-sucking call and you can't run me for that!
speaker2: you missed the tag!
speaker1: you spit on me!
speaker2: i didn't spit on you!
speaker1: you're in the wrong business, jack -- you're sears-roebuck material!
speaker2: you're close, crash, you want me to run you? i'll run you!
speaker1: you want me to call you a cocksucker?!
speaker2: try it! go ahead. call me a cocksucker!
speaker1: beg me!
speaker2: call me a and you're outta here!
speaker1: beg me again!
speaker2: call me a and you're outta here!
speaker1: you're a cocksucker!
speaker2: you're outta here!

speaker1: ...i've never seen crash so angry and frankly, bull fans, he used a certain word that's a "no-no" with umpires... 
speaker2: crash musta called the guy a
speaker3: he's so romantic...

speaker1: when crash got throwed out, the game got out of hand... ...jose made three errors with his cursed mitt... 
speaker1: nuke never quite got in the groove though he didn't pitch bad...
speaker1: ...and the winning streak came to an end with a 3-2 loss... the good news was that a man was about to come calling... the bad news was -- it was the wrong guy.

speaker1: annie! you gotta be in there -- i can hear that crazy mexican singer! 
speaker2: we lost.
speaker3: it's okay...
speaker2: i'd like you to meet my father.
speaker3: oh -- won't you come in?

speaker1: ebby's told me a lot about you. 
speaker2: uh oh... can i offer you some coffee?

speaker1: yeah... ebby tells me you're a very spiritual woman. he tells me you've taught him a lot about discipline and self-control. annie and nuke exchange glances. nuke smiles. 
speaker2: he's a good student.
speaker1: we were worried that ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseball -- we're so pleased, he met a christian woman.
speaker2: praise the lord, eh?
speaker2: oh my -- i better fix that. ebby will you help me? i'm no good with mechanical things nuke picks up his cue and follows her to:
speaker3: i couldn't dump my old man but maybe later i can sneak away from him...
speaker2: you don't have to...
speaker3: i'm starting to understand what you're teaching me. i mean the and the nostrils and all that i mean i'm getting it --
speaker2: so am i. nuke, honey, we need to talk --
speaker3: aw hell, let's have a quickie right here --
speaker2: -- but you're father's in there!
speaker3: crash says i gotta quit worrying about him -- c'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do -- he pins her to the wall, she squirms away.
speaker2: nuke -- we do need to talk!

speaker1: hello? skip? yeah, as a matter of fact, he is here. 
speaker1: it's skip, for you.
speaker2: yeah, skip, it's me. jeez... jeez... jeez...
speaker2: i'm going to the show. they're sending me up to finish out the season with the big club. i'm going to the show!
speaker3: let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the lord for all this --
speaker1: oh let's not...
speaker2: i gotta leave first thing in the morning.
speaker1: that's great!
speaker2: how can i possibly thank you?
speaker1: just pitch well and do good.
speaker2: i will, i will -- c'mon, dad, i'll dump you off. i gotta find crash.
speaker3: bless you.
speaker1: she will, mr. laloosh, she will...

speaker1: crash ain't there. he never gets back till four or five -- 
speaker2: where does he go?
speaker1: well, i'd rather not say.
speaker2: they called me up to the show and i wanta tell crash goodbye.
speaker1: goddamn, that's great! listen, crash don't like anybody to know it but -- most nights he goes down to, you know, down to niggertown. to sandy's... the whorehouse.
speaker2: he goes to a whorehouse every night?
speaker1: don't tell him i told you -- he'd break my neck.

speaker1: what'you want, kid? 
speaker2: i'm looking for somebody.
speaker1: who ain't?
speaker2: looking for crash davis.
speaker1: ain't here.
speaker2: i'm nuke laloosh. with the bulls.
speaker1: your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.

speaker1: you know she's waiting, just anticipating, the things that she'll never possess... while she's there waiting -- try a little tenderness... 
speaker2: crash. i'm going to the show.
speaker2: club's expanding its roster to finish the season --
speaker1: shut up. i'm playing. oh you won't regret it, young girls don't forget it, lost in their own wilderness... but it's all so easy -- just try a little tenderness...
speaker2: i'm going to the show.
speaker1: then go.
speaker2: i'm trying to thank you.
speaker1: let go of me!
speaker3: he makin' trouble for you, mr. davis?
speaker1: no, no, sandy, put it down. nuke, you know sandy grimes? hit .367 at louisville in 155.
speaker3: i hit .371.
speaker1: he hit .371 -- c'mon, nuke -- you and me, let's step outside and settle this.
speaker2: settle what?
speaker1: c'mon!
speaker2: i don't wanta fight you, i wanta thank you. let's have a drink and forget this --
speaker1: it, you virgin -- step outside.

speaker1: c'mon, we got nothin' to fight about. 
speaker2: you
speaker1: why am i a
speaker2: why are you a 'cause you got talent. i got brains. but you got talent! you're left arm is worth a million dollars a year. all my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a pound -- and that's for science and dog meat.
speaker1: you're a great catcher.
speaker2: come over here into the light so i can kick your ass.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: okay, i'll kick your there.
speaker2: ...god i forgot my shoes. honey, go get my shoes. one of the hookers goes inside for his shoes.
speaker1: i'll take you back to the hotel.
speaker2: you know what the difference is between hitting .250 and hitting .300? i got it figured out. twenty-five hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points. okay? there's 6 months in a season, that's about 25 weeks -- you get one extra flare a week -- just one -- a gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail -- just one more dying quail a week and you're in yankee stadium!

speaker1: forget it. you ain't worth thanking -- 
speaker2: come on, meat...
speaker2: nuke... tell me something. did you hit me with your right or your left?
speaker1: my right.
speaker2: good. good. that's terrific...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. ya might get injured. that's another lesson for ya -- now quit around and help me up.
speaker1: ya look like

speaker1: sorry about last night. 
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: i have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon. d'you understand that?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you will. look, nuke -- these big league hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile -- don't worry about it. be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. that's the secret. you gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
speaker2: fear and ignorance.
speaker1: no. fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
speaker2: i know. i just like to see you get all worked up.
speaker2: well, i got annie all warmed up for ya... she's just waiting for you to show up, y'know...
speaker1: i don't need a crazy woman in my life.
speaker2: maybe you do. y'know i'm starting to like this game -- baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
speaker1: it's the best, nuke... the absolute best.
speaker2: yeah, thanks for everything.
speaker1: nuke -- good luck.
speaker2: you too... meat.

speaker1: well i guess this is it. 
speaker1: neither will i.
speaker2: i think i'm ready for the show.
speaker1: ebby calvin nuke laloosh -- don't think too much.
speaker2: don't worry.
speaker2: i gotta go now, dad.
speaker3: i was thinking i could fly up and spend a week in the big leagues with you -- help you get comfortable.
speaker2: no. if i screw up, i wanta do it alone. i'll call.
speaker3: we'll be praying for you.
speaker2: dad -- if my curveball is hanging, ain't gonna help me.
speaker3: we'll pray anyway.

speaker1: i wanta thank everybody and the lord for the victory, it's a wonderful way to celebrate my marriage -- and i guess we're all back on a winning streak, he? a few raucous "fuckin a's" from the team. 
speaker2: hey, jimmy -- we chipped in and kind got a little gift for ya of a special wedding cake from the durham bulls.

speaker1: yeah, skip, you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: crash, shut the door.
speaker2: the organization wants to make a change... now that nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher...
speaker3: some kid hittin' .300 in lynchburg... probably a bust.
speaker2: i put in a word for you with the organization -- told 'em i thought you'd make a fine minor league manager someday... might be an opening at salem next year --
speaker2: helluva year, crash -- you know how it is. silence.

speaker1: i got released. 
speaker2: i heard already.

speaker1: ...so you see in a former lifetime i'm sure that i was alexandria, the czarette of russia? what do you think? 
speaker2: how come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous? how come nobody ever says they were joe schmo?
speaker1: it doesn't work like that. you're gorgeous. want to dance?

speaker1: ...mouth, tongue, lips, teeth, roof of the mouth, jaws, and the jaw hinges... 
speaker2: ...wrist and wrist joints, hand, palm, knuckles, thumb, fore-finger, finger-joints, finger-nail...

speaker1: the house smelled like for days. it was wonderful. the only real cleaning i did was on the kitchen floor 'cause who likes to walk on spilt cereal? 
speaker1: the funny thing is, i stopped worrying about nuke. somehow i knew nothing would stop him. crash was right -- nuke had a gift.

speaker1: the kid from lynchburg wasn't good enough to hold crash's jockstrap if ya ask me, and nuke's replacement had a fastball that i coulda hit we had a three game lead with two weeks to go when the rains came. 
speaker1: it rained and rained and i thought of driving down to asheville to see crash but then i thought "no, what you pursue, eludes you". i had to trust quantum physics and the church of baseball. it ain't always easy being this religious...

speaker1: oh my... 
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: i quit. hit my dinger and hung 'em up.
speaker1: i'm quitting too. boys, not baseball.
speaker2: there might be an opening for a manager at salem next spring.
speaker1: salem, massachusetts? where all the witches were?
speaker2: yeah... you a witch?
speaker1: not yet. it takes years of practice...
speaker2: you think i could make it to the show as a manager?
speaker1: you'd be great, just great... 'cause you understand non-linear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an' all -- but the fact is that there's a spacious-"non-time kind of time" to it...
speaker2: annie --
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i got a lotta time to hear your theories and i wanta hear every one of 'em... but right now i'm tired and i don't wanta think about baseball and i don't wanta think about quantum physics... i don't wanta think about nothing... i just wanta be.
speaker1: i can do that, too.

