speaker1: i am neither christian...nor atheist. i am not jewish or muslim. what i believe...my religion is called the constitution... a pause. 
speaker2: hang on...let me open these up....

speaker1: okay... 
speaker2: i will defend till my dying breath your right to worship whatever you believe in...
speaker2: if i'm not religious enough for you, don't vote for me.

speaker1: if i'm not experienced enough don't vote for me. if i'm not... 
speaker2: okay got it, thanks.
speaker1: thanks. we'll need these monitors turned up a bit...it's a big space and he wants to be able to hear.
speaker3: you got it.
speaker1: also we'll need these podiums put on a riser as we agreed to in the pre-conditions. you're a few inches short and it makes it harder for the governor to read his notes.
speaker3: no i know, we just got those specs last night and they're building a piece to go under...
speaker1: great, thanks. see you guys in a few hours. we see we're in an auditorium of a college.
speaker4: i didn't know the governor had trouble reading his notes. why doesn't he wear...
speaker1: he doesn't but pullman is 5'8" he'll look like a hobbit behind that podium.

speaker1: a win in ohio could turn it all around for the arkansas senator... 
speaker1: so one week from tuesday the all important hundred and eighty one ohio delegates could be the deciding factor..

speaker1: would you call yourself a christian? 
speaker2: how would that matter?
speaker1: "i have no idea what happens when we die, maybe nothing...maybe it was like before we were born." you did write this governor...
speaker2: then let me try and clarify...i was raised catholic, i am not a practicing catholic...i have no idea what happens when you die and if the senator does, then perhaps he should be president. i'll even vote for him.
speaker1: is that your idea of being specific?

speaker1: let me be more specific. i am neither a christian, nor an atheist, i'm not jewish or muslim...what i believe...my religion is written on a piece of parchment called the constitution. meaning i will defend, till my dying breath, your right to worship, in whatever or lack thereof you believe in, as long as it doesn't hurt others. i believe we should be judged as a government by how we take care of those who can't take care of themselves. that's my religion. if you feel that i'm not religious enough, then don't vote for me. if you feel i'm not experienced enough or tall enough then don't vote for me. because i'm not going to change those to get elected. 
speaker2: i just wanted you to say out loud if you believed in the teachings of the bible.
speaker1: is this a democratic primary or a general election?
speaker2: well governor, whoever wins this contest will be running for president...and if you don't think that these questions won't be central in a general election then you are living in fantasy land. i applaud your honesty governor, i do...i'm simply pointing to what is obvious...we are running for president of the united states...not for student council president.

speaker1: a double? 
speaker2: a double.
speaker1: national security.
speaker1: outta the park.
speaker2: home run.
speaker3: i'm trying to remember if the democrats ever nominated an atheist before...
speaker1: well, we know they've nominated jackasses before.
speaker3: must've been you that did the prep work. paul's not that clever.
speaker1: you always had the brains duffy, but me - i always had the balls.

speaker1: looks like you got some brains now too. be careful. i just might have to steal him from you. 
speaker2: what a prick.

speaker1: so paul, tell me something i don't know...tell me what's gonna happen on the 15th. 
speaker2: ha-ha.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what do you think stevie?
speaker3: it's ours for the taking.
speaker2: ben?
speaker4: we'll win.
speaker2: what do you think ida?
speaker1: i'm asking you.
speaker2: you tell me and i'll tell you.

speaker1: if had to say, i'd say it'll be close, but you'll eke it out. 
speaker2: eke?
speaker2: you see, she's trying to get under my skin.
speaker1: so what's gonna happen?
speaker2: us by nine.
speaker1: nine? there's no way you'll win by nine.
speaker3: at least. maybe more.
speaker1: so you're certain you're gonna win here?
speaker2: certain? no. confident? yes.
speaker1: you just said you'll win by nine.
speaker2: and i think we will, but i won't tell you it's a sure thing. saint gabriel can blow his horn on election day and get his four horseman to rig the ballot boxes for pullman and it wouldn't surprise me. don't get me wrong. six presidentials i've done and i've never felt this good. but am i gonna sit here and say "yes -we will definitely win ohio"? not a chance. in the last thirty years seventy-three democrats have run for president. how many have won?

speaker1: that means seventy guys ran who thought they had a chance, and they all lost. 
speaker2: so you're saying there's a good chance you won't win.
speaker3: don't twist my words. what i'm saying is that i'm not going to promise we'll win. but he's decorated by bush senior from the first gulf war and protested the second. he left his state with a balanced budget and the fourth highest education rate. the republicans have nobody out there that can touch this guy...so for this moment, this election, this primary is the presidential. and that ida, is the state of the union. and on that note, i'm gonna take a
speaker2: so stephen...
speaker4: yes ida?
speaker2: stephen, stephen, stephen....
speaker4: here it comes...hit me.
speaker2: paul's going to the airport?
speaker4: yes?
speaker2: getting on a plane.
speaker4: mmhmm.
speaker2: where is that plane going?

speaker1: three guesses. 
speaker2: not going back to headquarters.
speaker1: correct.
speaker2: he's not going to texas?
speaker1: no need, we'll split texas, it's a wash.
speaker2: what if i said north carolina?
speaker1: that's your guess?
speaker2: he's going to north carolina.
speaker1: i will neither confirm nor deny that statement.
speaker2: i knew it. now tell me why.
speaker1: that i cannot do.
speaker2: i hate you.
speaker1: you love me.
speaker2: i love paul. you i hate.
speaker1: you only love him because he gives you all the scoops.
speaker2: sexual favors?
speaker1: you're engaged.

speaker1: if it meant a good scoop my fiance would understand. 
speaker1: you really buy into all this crap? all this take back the country nonsense?
speaker2: ida i'm not naive about this stuff. i've worked on more campaigns than most people do by the time they're forty...i'm telling you this is the one.
speaker1: you really have drunk the kool-aid.
speaker2: i have drunk it it's delicious. i don't care whether he leads in the polls...i don't care whether he has all the tools...because the truth is, he's the only one that's going to make a difference in peoples lives...even the people that hate him. if mike morris is president it says more about us than it does about him. i don't give a if he can win. he has to win.
speaker1: or what? the world will fall apart? it won't matter...not one bit to the everyday lives of everyday who work and eat and sleep and get up and go back to work again. if your boy wins...you get a job in the white house...if he loses you're back at a consulting firm on k street...that's it. you used to know that before you got all goosebumpy about this guy. morris is a politician...he's a nice guy...they're all nice guys.

speaker1: this is off off off the record. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: franklin thompson.
speaker2: seriously?
speaker1: off the record. the only people who know are the governor, stephen and me.
speaker2: my lips are sealed.
speaker1: i have a meeting tomorrow at thompson's house.
speaker2: he's gonna endorse?
speaker1: after i'm done talking with him, what do you think?
speaker2: that's huge.
speaker1: it's more than huge. he has 356 pledged delegates...they all travel with him. that puts us over the top.
speaker2: he's said publicly he's not gonna endorse anyone.

speaker1: that's what they all say until we get them alone in a room. 
speaker2: so this is for real?
speaker1: yup. it's just about in the bag.
speaker2: when are you gonna announce?
speaker1: nope. that's all you get for now.

speaker1: okay so listen up...these are your new cell phones...shelly has pre- programmed everyone's numbers in...thank you shelly...no personal calls...if you lose them, paul has authorized me to kill you. 
speaker1: new phones...
speaker2: i'll get it in a bit...

speaker1: kill me...where did we get this? 
speaker2: before he announced at a town hall meeting in pennsylvania...
speaker1: thank it wasn't overseas. just get rid of it -
speaker2: it plays to his base, if-
speaker1: are you stoned...this is the same...the exact same piece the republicans are gonna run against him in the general...we don't need to brag about it...hi i'm neville chamberlain and i want to be your commander in chief.
speaker2: if it's gonna come out-
speaker1: it's gonna come out but not paid for by us pal. any truth on whether pullman had investments in those diamond mines in liberia?

speaker1: we're still checking...it was a blog so who the knows... 
speaker2: doesn't matter i want to hear him denying it. if it's true, find out, if it's not, let them spend the next day telling the post that he doesn't own a diamond mine in liberia...win win.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: we need to counter this christian we're taking from last night...so get going...where's our cut on the new thirty and a sixty second spots? we'll show it to him this afternoon in the staff meeting.
speaker3: got it.
speaker4: ben wanted me to get you to sign off on this before the staff meeting.
speaker2: oh, right. thanks. i've been waiting for this.
speaker4: anything interesting?
speaker2: just some white paper i gotta pass out tonight.
speaker4: white paper?

speaker1: negative our oppo guys do research - we feed it to the press, hope they bite. 
speaker2: so like what sort of negative stuff?
speaker1: read tomorrow's paper and you'll see.
speaker2: which paper?
speaker1: all of them.
speaker2: so it's something big?
speaker1: i wish it were something bigger actually. just some transportation numbers. i'll have to spin this pretty heavy if we want it to stick.
speaker2: well that's what you're good at, right?
speaker1: i guess.
speaker2: did you get your phone?
speaker1: just now.
speaker2: it's exciting isn't it?
speaker1: you a bearcat...?

speaker1: a what? 
speaker2: a cincinnati bearcat?
speaker1: oh no...i'm not from here...i worked with you in iowa actually.
speaker2: oh that's right...but you changed something.
speaker1: my hair?
speaker2: you changed your hair.
speaker1: no..
speaker2: i must look like a total right now.
speaker1: not at all...you're the big man on campus...i'm just a lowly intern.
speaker2: come on it's not like that.
speaker1: sure it is...you get to stay at the millennium, they put us into a motel on the other side of the river.
speaker2: you're right, i am big man on campus.
speaker1: now you're starting to see.
speaker1: we do have the better bar though.

speaker1: i heard that. 
speaker2: you ought to stop by one night and have a drink with the worker bees.
speaker1: maybe i will...when's a good night?
speaker2: tonight's good...
speaker1: really? tuesday?
speaker2: yeah it's quiet.
speaker1: quiet's good.
speaker2: well you have my number.
speaker1: i do?
speaker2: programmed right there in your phone.
speaker1: oh...right...
speaker2: under mary.
speaker1: yup...mary.
speaker2: molly...my name's molly...

speaker1: that's what i'm hearing...since super tuesday i'm a very popular guy. what are your polls telling you? 
speaker2: that pullman's negatives are high...mid forties. senator we have an open seat in the white house and the republicans don't have they're disorganized and they can't find a nominee that isn't a world class up. they look like democrats. no republican is gonna show up to vote for their guy. but if pullman gets the democratic nod they'll show up to vote against him.
speaker1: and so you think they won't for your guy...you think morris gets into the independents?
speaker2: i sure do. senator...i'm a bit confused...we need your delegates...we need you...your fund raising. it was my understanding that...your endorsement a week before ohio...would win this for us...
speaker1: estella...hand me that ice bucket.

speaker1: paul knows...paul agrees... 
speaker2: ben, where's my op ed on national service? it's better for me to work off of that.
speaker3: got it right here.
speaker2: get me a hard copy...i hate these things...
speaker1: print it out.
speaker3: i'll get it printed. molly, i'm printing out this op ed...can you grab it off the printer?
speaker4: be right back.
speaker1: governor...if you want to change...or lets call it refresh...
speaker2: just give me a second...
speaker1: national service isn't polling like the rest of your domestic policy.
speaker2: i don't give a about polling...i'm not going to play this game with you stephen...and if this is your good cop bad cop act with paul...
speaker1: good cop, good cop.
speaker2: i'm not changing it.

speaker1: hang on. 
speaker2: yeah i said it all here, "it's going to help people get an education...it's going to create national unity...it's going to teach young people a trade...and it's going to help get people out of debt from college loans. tell me where that fails.
speaker3: all of that is exactly right...governor if you're going to do it...then do it. don't make it voluntary...mandatory.
speaker2: that'll poll well.
speaker3: mandatory!...everyone who graduates high school or turns eighteen, gives two years to his or her country. military...peace corps...plant trees, i don't care...and for that...their college education is paid for...period.
speaker2: we do all of that now, with this...
speaker3: no sir you don't...do it all...all the way. mandatory.
speaker2: paul likes this?...you guys are my brain trust.
speaker3: and here's the beauty of it...everyone who is older than eighteen and past the age of eligibility, would be for it...create national pride...give all the kids an education.

speaker1: and all the others? 
speaker2: can't vote. too young.
speaker2: you can't lose.
speaker3: stephen you have a call on three, your dad.
speaker1: okay, you and ben work it into the stump speech - get me a hard copy and i'll write it in my own words.
speaker2: remember, governor... you have a six o'clock with charlie rose...
speaker1: why am i doing him?
speaker2: it's long form... he's flying in...
speaker1: is paul going?
speaker2: no, he won't be back... ben and i are taking you...

speaker1: ...don't tell me anyone's died... 
speaker2: hey stephen...

speaker1: who is this? 
speaker2: tom duffy...sorry about the dad bit...but i didn't think you'd want my name yelled out at a morris campaign office.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: you got a couple of minutes...i'd like to sit down with you.
speaker1: what for?
speaker2: i think it's important.
speaker1: if it's important shouldn't you be calling paul?
speaker2: i'm calling you...this is all on the up and up...just give me five minutes.
speaker1: i can't be talking to you...
speaker2: i hear you...but if you get five minutes...i'll be at the heads first sports bar for the next couple of hours.
speaker1: i can't tom.
speaker2: there won't be anybody there...if you get a chance there's something i want to show you.

speaker1: you're working for the wrong man. 
speaker2: you're working for the wrong man.
speaker1: oh on the contrary you are working for the wrong man. you've got something the other guys don't have.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: yeah, what is it exactly? charm isn't the right word. it's more than that. you exude something. you draw people in. all the reporters love you. even the ones that hate you love you. you play them all like they're pieces on a chess board. and you make it look effortless. we both know how much work it takes, constantly being on guard, weighing every word so carefully, every move. but from the outside, you make it look easy.

speaker1: no...i don't think i can. 
speaker2: i want you to work for us.
speaker1: you gotta be kidding me.
speaker2: not in the least. beat.
speaker1: i am not.
speaker2: you're sitting on about a six percent lead in both polls...six percent of the democrats polled.
speaker1: eight.
speaker2: six...but that doesn't matter...independents and republicans can vote for the democratic candidate.
speaker1: you think they like your guy?...pro choice...tax and spend liberal?

speaker1: no they hate him...they think they can beat my guy...but they're worried about yours...so starting tomorrow morning you're gonna see a blitz...rush limbaugh, sean hannity, all the right wing blogs are gonna start a "get out the vote campaign"...it's already started...every conservative in ohio is gonna stand in line and punch my guys ticket...that's just one of the steps...ohio is gone...the polls don't mean shit...tomorrow morning everyone will know...that's why i want you to handle the fallout we'll take in the press... 
speaker1: and by the way...we've got thompson in the bag.
speaker2: i know for a fact that thompson is going with us.
speaker1: we promised him secretary of state, ohio is over...it's been over for weeks...and with thompson's delegates...i'm thinking down the road now...that's why i want you...i'll bring you in straight at the top.
speaker2: i can't do it.
speaker1: i'm not asking for an answer right this moment.
speaker2: i've played dirty but i don't have to play dirty anymore...you know why? cause i got morris!

speaker1: none of this is about the democratic process steve, it's about getting your guy into office. 
speaker2: this is the sort of the republicans pull.
speaker1: you're right, this is exactly what the republicans do, and it's about time we learned from them. they're meaner, tougher and more disciplined than we are. i've been in this business for twenty five years and i've seen way too many democrats bite the dust because they wouldn't get down in the mud with the elephants.
speaker2: paul's a friend.
speaker1: do you want to work for a friend or do you want to work for the president? think about it...you have my number.

speaker1: paul. 
speaker2: they don't make quaaludes any more do they?
speaker1: not that i know of. what's going on with thompson?

speaker1: it's nothing...never mind. 
speaker2: allright...i'm on the cell if you need me. i fly to dc tomorrow and back tomorrow night.
speaker1: yeah okay...i'll look for quaaludes.
speaker2: good man. stephen ends the call. he stands in silence.

speaker1: just get online and see if there's any chatter on the blogs... 
speaker2: what kind of chatter? there's always chatter.
speaker1: i don't know... just see what they're talking about.
speaker2: give me a second...

speaker1: stephen... you're still single, right? 
speaker2: i'm married to the campaign, governor.
speaker1: good answer. he's married to the campaign...
speaker3: wall street journal poll has our numbers holding steady and pullman dropped a point.
speaker2: really? when did they do that? governor... wall street journal numbers are in... and pullman's down a point.
speaker1: now we're moving in the right direction. ben, are you still single?
speaker3: i'm married to the campaign, governor.
speaker1: crack team.
speaker2: make sure charlie rose has these latest numbers before he goes on...
speaker3: i'm on it.

speaker1: is it a difficult decision? i would have to believe that it is... would i do it? no... but i can't see myself... or anyone... certainly not a government, telling a woman what she can do with her body. 
speaker2: so you would appoint a judge to...
speaker1: ... i would consider it arrogant to judge someone until i've walked in their shoes.
speaker2: but you're against the death penalty?
speaker1: yes. because of what it says about us as a society.
speaker2: suppose governor it was your wife...
speaker1: and she was murdered, what would i do.
speaker2: it gets more complicated when it's personal.

speaker1: sure...well if i could get to him i'd find a way to kill him. 
speaker2: so you, you governor would impose the death penalty.
speaker1: no, i would commit a crime for which i would happily go to jail.
speaker2: then why not let society do that?
speaker1: because society has to be better than the individual. if i were to do that i would be wrong.
speaker2: and what about guns?
speaker1: isn't it time for a commercial.
speaker2: this is public tv, we don't have commercials...
speaker1: that's unfortunate.

speaker1: where'd you go after iowa? 
speaker2: california for super tuesday.
speaker1: i had to go to new york.

speaker1: i know...you guys needed a lot more help over there. 
speaker2: yeah. so why politics?
speaker1: because the pay is so good.
speaker2: it just seems like an odd fit.
speaker1: my dad is jack stearns.
speaker2: he's a good guy.
speaker1: he's an but he's your boss.
speaker2: he's not my boss. he's the head of the dnc.
speaker1: you don't work for the democratic national committee?
speaker2: i work for paul, paul works for morris and if morris wins, he's going to be your dad's boss.
speaker1: don't tell my dad that.
speaker2: don't tell your dad a lot of things.
speaker1: never.
speaker2: what time do you start tomorrow?

speaker1: nine am...i'm showing the new interns how to robo call...you see...i'm the experienced intern. 
speaker2: i do see...
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker2: how old do you think i am?
speaker1: thirty?
speaker2: you think i'm thirty?
speaker1: i'm sorry, how old are you?
speaker2: thirty...how old are you?
speaker1: how old do you think i am?
speaker2: twenty one?
speaker1: twenty.
speaker2: that's young.
speaker1: too young to a thirty year old?
speaker2: see laws are different in different states. here in your hotel, in kentucky...it's frowned upon...but we'll go across the bridge into ohio...
speaker1: where your hotel is?

speaker1: yeah surprisingly they're very lax about their child endangerment laws... 
speaker2: you have a car? i don't drive.
speaker1: i took a cab.
speaker2: i have the keys to the campaign bus...

speaker1: what time does paul land?... christ...who do we talk to about polling?...no...i just...i just need to get some internal polling on the independents and the right-wing nuts. 
speaker2: do you want me to go?
speaker1: listen, put me on the line with...what's the guy's name at the wall street journal?... yeah...
speaker2: you seem busy...i should go.
speaker1: wait.
speaker1: right...adler...get me on the line with him.
speaker2: steve?
speaker1: molly listen, just give me a second...i want to talk to you about something.

speaker1: we can talk about it later if... 
speaker2: what? no nobody...just the cleaning lady...listen ben...keep trying till you get him. we're gonna go with the position that we've always said, the race is closer than the polling...right...no don't...don't say that...just get him on the line and call me...i'll handle it...yup.
speaker2: sorry about that.
speaker1: the cleaning lady.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you called me the cleaning lady.
speaker2: you're not mad about that are you?
speaker1: no why would i be mad? beat.
speaker1: look.
speaker3: earlier i spoke with jack stearns, head of the dnc, and he had this to say...

speaker1: i know you're looking for a reaction, but listen we have two great candidates in a very tight race...and at the end of the day the voters will decide who best can represent this party in the fall. 
speaker2: i understand jack - but doesn't this kind of disruption take away from what you want to be pushing this year?
speaker3: your dad is an
speaker4: i'll tell him you said that.
speaker3: do that.
speaker4: you said you wanted to talk to me about something?
speaker3: yeah, i just wanted...i just wanted to be clear about everything...so there's no confusion...
speaker4: i won't tell anyone about last night.
speaker3: well yeah, i'd appreciate it if we kept this...i mean, you know how people are.
speaker4: really wouldn't look good if you screwed an intern.
speaker3: it's not like i got drunk and this happened...i mean...i wanted to...i really like you...you're smart...but i just...i don't want there to be any expectations...

speaker1: steven, you don't have to say anything. 
speaker2: i just don't want you to think i'm some kind of player.
speaker1: well you are kind of a player, but that's okay.
speaker2: no i'm not. i was being polite.
speaker1: bullshit...you were trying to pick me up.
speaker2: no i wasn't.
speaker1: you were pretty obvious about it.
speaker2: i was?
speaker1: totally.
speaker2: i thought i was being all smooth and subtle.
speaker1: you were pretty forward.
speaker2: you were pretty forward ...inviting me to the bar.
speaker1: well...i've been trying to you for a while.
speaker2: wow.
speaker1: pretty slutty of me, huh?

speaker1: no, not at all...i mean i kind of respect it in a weird sort of way. 
speaker2: good.
speaker1: you have absolutely no idea how to tie a tie do you...
speaker2: no no not a clue.
speaker1: you're very mature.
speaker2: for a teenager.

speaker1: when are you coming back? 
speaker2: i'll be at the event...a little late...these suckers...fucking dirty
speaker1: what happened with thompson?
speaker2: nothing, the prick...we had him all sewed up...mother fucker...how bad is it?
speaker1: i'm running some numbers now...i don't know...

speaker1: alright, i'll be there in three hours...i want hard numbers...and a strategy. 
speaker2: yeah i'm on it...i gotta go.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: yup... just trying to figure out our stops on the ground.
speaker1: i think the weather might determine that. if we get there.
speaker2: we'll be fine...we have to do it...and it's the right thing. nothing bad happens when it's the right thing.
speaker1: is this your personal theory...cause i can shoot holes in it...roberto clemente...on a humanitarian flight.
speaker2: well there are exceptions to every rule...
speaker1: so how we doin?
speaker2: fine now.

speaker1: no i mean...the campaign how we doin? 
speaker2: great...
speaker1: listen stephen...you're not paul. i pay him to use the word "great".
speaker2: i think we're solid.
speaker1: okay paul.
speaker2: governor there's a big difference between paul and me. paul only believes in winning so he'll do or say anything to win.
speaker1: but you wouldn't.
speaker2: i'll do or say anything if i believe in it...but i have to believe in the cause.
speaker1: you'll make a lousy consultant when you're out of this line of work.
speaker2: well i won't be out of this line of work as long as you're in it.
speaker1: so at best you've got eight years...then you'll end up with a nice little consultant firm on farragut north...eating at the palm...pulling in seven hundred and fifty grand a year...pimping out senators to saudi princes.
speaker2: pimping out ex presidents...

speaker1: then i better win... 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: i didn't think it was true. 
speaker2: whoa...
speaker1: but i should have told you this yesterday...sorry...

speaker1: -slow down. 
speaker2: i met with tom duffy yesterday.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you were on a plane and he called me and he asked if we could meet...and i said why...he said it was very important so i did...but i should've told you...
speaker1: stop stop let me get this straight.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what'd he want stephen?
speaker2: -the gist of it is he wants to hire me. he wants me to jump ship and come work for him...this is bad paul. he showed me poll numbers with pullman ahead by four. we're in really deep trouble he laid out their whole plan. robo- calls, traffic jams, fake lit, and thompson. they promised him secretary of state.

speaker1: if this is some sort of practical-i mean -my blood pressure is going through the roof right now. 
speaker2: paul i'm sorry. believe me...i just didn't think it was true.
speaker1: it doesn't matter what you thought. it matters what you did. it matters what you didn't do. if all this is true i made a of myself at thompson's place. and i gave away our game plan.
speaker2: please believe me that i honestly believed you were gonna come back and you were gonna tell me that we have thompson in the bag and i didn't see the point. but it doesn't make it right and i'm sorry.
speaker1: let me think...let me think...

speaker1: we get the governor right after he finishes singing bay ya and give him everything we know. 
speaker2: who do you want...
speaker1: you, me and the governor, that's it! what's he got after?
speaker2: a fund-raiser in cleveland tonight.
speaker1: he'll be late...we're gonna tell him that if he doesn't offer thompson a cabinet position...he's not gonna get the nomination.
speaker2: will he go for it?
speaker1: i don't know stephen.
speaker1: find us a room...

speaker1: we might pick up a couple of points...but we're...i don't know, we lose by three or four percent. 
speaker2: who the knows governor...but we can't take the chance...
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker2: i think we fold up the campaign in ohio...take a loss and blame it on the republican's playing games...head to north carolina.
speaker3: i can't run from ohio...they'll kill us.
speaker2: not if you get thompson's endorsement.
speaker3: i'm not gonna do it. what's he want head of the fda or something ridiculous?
speaker1: cabinet post.
speaker3: labor?
speaker1: state...
speaker3: are you kidding me...i'm gonna give secretary of state to a guy who wants to cut the top ten floors off the un? paul when we started this campaign i said i wasn't gonna make those kind of deals.

speaker1: governor, if you lose ohio, and they get thompson's delegates...then they get north carolina...then they get the lead. a lead you can't beat. but if we walk from ohio, take thompson, give him a cabinet post, then we take north carolina. his state. then pennsylvania. your state. and then it's simple math mike. take his endorsement and the race is over. 
speaker2: paul, i respect you...respect your opinion...but i'm never gonna do it...so i suggest we find a way for me to win ohio.
speaker2: anything else?

speaker1: do we have any other senators that can go to bat for us? house members won't do. 
speaker2: or a congressman from ohio maybe.
speaker1: right...but we need a senator...one from ohio would be nice.

speaker1: this is all the car rental companies in northern ohio...they've booked every single van for tuesday... 
speaker2: fuck...jess, i'll call you back...
speaker3: here's what i have so far...independents don't seem to be biting, but republicans are...or say they are.
speaker2: they're not gonna tell a pollster that they're gonna vote democratic...i don't even know how to read these polls.
speaker1: i called and we can get a hundred vans out of covington and newport kentucky.
speaker2: we don't need the vans...we just don't want pullman to have them...
speaker4: no, no that's not what i'm saying...we were the underdog before we got into this and we continue to be the underdog...well the numbers...we knew the numbers would get closer the closer we got to tuesday...i'm not lowering expectations...have you ever heard me say that we had ohio locked?... then at least give me the courtesy of printing that in your column.

speaker1: what're you writing? 
speaker2: the greatest speech ever given on hydrogen power.
speaker1: the bar is awfully high on that one.
speaker2: don't i know it.
speaker1: i got hit up by mitchell's wife for you to show up at her "daughters of the american revolution" luncheon.
speaker2: who's mitchell?
speaker1: congressman from the first district. you might want to remember that.
speaker2: congressmen. could you imagine doing this every two years?
speaker1: no i can't. lets just do this one more time.
speaker2: in four more years.
speaker1: that's it.

speaker1: you think we'll lose ohio? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: if you took thompson's delegates the race is over. ohio wouldn't matter.
speaker2: is paul working on you?
speaker1: stephen.
speaker2: they are good.
speaker1: is thompson so bad?
speaker2: he's a
speaker1: worse than pullman?
speaker2: yes stephen.
speaker2: every time i draw a line in the sand...and i keep moving it. fund raising, union deals...i wasn't going to do any of it...negative ads...i can't on this one. not thompson.

speaker1: tell mrs. mitchell i'll make her luncheon. 
speaker2: let the old ladies pat me on the head.
speaker3: you've got great hair.
speaker2: you too baby.

speaker1: gay marriage? 
speaker2: it's a silly argument.
speaker1: not to fifty percent of americans.
speaker2: over the age of fifty.
speaker1: that's who votes...that's who shows up at the polls.
speaker2: well that's changing...and hopefully the way we frame the argument is...

speaker1: keep an eye on the governor. 
speaker2: let me know how it's going out there.
speaker2: i'm on it.
speaker3: from...a religious...a
speaker4: from a religious to a civil rights issue.
speaker3: but one could argue a great difference between gender and race.
speaker4: not really. they used to ban interracial marriage...women couldn't vote...the list goes on...
speaker3: the argument of course- we hear boos from students in the audience. at this point the camera finds morris.
speaker4: now wait she has a point to make....
speaker3: the argument is that men and women, can in fact be separate but equal, races cannot.
speaker4: how so?

speaker1: you have separate public bathrooms for men and women but it would be illegal to have separate bathrooms for two races. 
speaker2: now.
speaker1: yes now.
speaker2: so that's what i'm saying.

speaker1: what time is this on tonight? 
speaker2: nine o'clock.
speaker1: how'd he do?
speaker2: he did good.

speaker1: see we're framing the argument based on the idea that homosexuality is a choice, you choose to be gay, not that you were born that way like being born black. because if you start the discussion with the idea that gay is not a life choice but part of your dna, then gay marriage is and can only be a civil rights issue. 
speaker2: do you think candor is your appeal? is that what you're running on as much as your platform...?
speaker1: we'll see. it'll drive them to the polls one way or the other.
speaker2: i just heard a lot of christian coalition cars start up. we pull focus now onto stephen and molly. stephen on top not moving.
speaker3: it's not you.

speaker1: hello... 
speaker2: molly?
speaker1: your phone rang.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: who's calling at 2:30 in the morning?
speaker3: i don't know?
speaker1: he asked for you by name.
speaker3: you answered it?
speaker1: i thought it was mine. who was it?
speaker3: i don't know...
speaker1: one of the other interns drunk dialing you?

speaker1: oh that never happens...let me see the number... 
speaker2: hold on...
speaker1: stephen...
speaker2: i'm gonna call him back.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: ...and i'm gonna tell him that i'm your dad...
speaker1: gimme my phone stephen!
speaker2: and i'm gonna tell him i'm coming over there with a shotgun...
speaker1: don't do that stephen... hang up!
speaker2: why is the governor calling you at 2:30 in the morning?

speaker1: she says nothing. 
speaker2: why is the governor calling you at all?
speaker3: i'm in trouble...
speaker2: with the governor? what's going on?
speaker3: i was working on the campaign in iowa...we had a party in ben's room after the rally in des moines...
speaker2: there was a party with you...and ben...and the governor.
speaker3: no he wasn't there.
speaker2: where was he?
speaker3: i took him up a hard copy of the polling numbers...
speaker2: after the party?
speaker3: about midnight i guess...i stood in the doorway with him...we were talking...a long time...then he just reached behind me and closed the door.
speaker2: christ...were you drunk?
speaker3: not that drunk...
speaker2: how many times?

speaker1: just that once. 
speaker2: does anybody know? did anyone see you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how could you know?
speaker1: i know!
speaker2: then why is he calling you now?
speaker1: i called him first.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because i didn't know who to go to...and i needed nine hundred bucks...
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: i can't go to my dad...we're catholic.
speaker1: so what should i do?

speaker1: ben... come here a minute 
speaker2: what's up?
speaker1: what's our limit on petty cash?
speaker2: it's probably five hundred. why?
speaker1: i need as much as we have.
speaker2: everything okay?... anything i can help with?
speaker1: yeah...don't put it on the books.
speaker2: what should i put it down as?
speaker1: don't put it down as anything...
speaker2: anything over a hundred i got to put it down as something...

speaker1: just do it! ben exits. 
speaker1: molly...
speaker1: here...
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'll take that. that's all.

speaker1: stevie ... off the record ... 
speaker2: no i can't tell you what happened in north carolina.
speaker1: that's not what i wanted to ask you about.
speaker2: okay what?
speaker1: you met with duffy.
speaker2: who told you that?
speaker1: a little bird.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: did you meet with him?
speaker2: where are you?

speaker1: i know you met with him at a little bar in cincy, two nights ago, just before the press conference. duffy ordered buffalo wings. 
speaker2: did duffy tell you this?
speaker1: anonymous. what happened with duffy?

speaker1: you're supposed to be my friend ida. you'd stab me in the back like this? you'd ruin my reputation just so you- 
speaker2: wait wait wait -is that what you thought? that we were friends?
speaker1: i've given you everything -every scoop, your profile with pau1....
speaker2: you're right -you've given me a lot. but let's get real here steve. the only reason you ever treated me well was that i work for the times. not because i was your friend. you give me what i want, i write you better stories. don't pretend it's any more than that. why'd you meet with duffy?
speaker1: go yourself.
speaker2: okay, i'll make it easier on you. forget duffy. what happened at paul and thompson's meeting?
speaker1: will you keep your voice down. do you have any idea what a story like this could do to me?
speaker2: of course i do. that's why i'm giving you a choice here.
speaker1: i could get fired.
speaker2: so it's not a difficult choice, is it? i've got to file by three p.m.

speaker1: you mother 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: you leaked it.
speaker2: leaked what?
speaker1: don't me tom.
speaker2: you...i have no idea what you're talking about.
speaker1: i just spoke with ida horowicz.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: she's threatening to release the story.
speaker2: what story?
speaker1: that we met! that i met with you!
speaker2: how did she find out?

speaker1: don't play here tom. 
speaker2: you think i leaked it to her?
speaker1: who else?
speaker2: i didn't leak it to her.
speaker1: well i know i didn't, so that leaves you.
speaker2: what's she know?
speaker1: she knows whatever you told her.
speaker2: i swear to i didn't leak it to her steve. i don't want this story out any more than you do.
speaker1: well too late.
speaker2: what did she tell you?
speaker1: she knows where we met, she knows when we met... she knows you had buffalo wings.
speaker2: she has a source?
speaker1: yes she has a source.
speaker2: and you have no idea who it could be?
speaker1: yeah, you.

speaker1: well it wasn't me, and for the record i didn't have buffalo wings. it's gotta be some one else. 
speaker2: did you tell anyone?
speaker1: no. did you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did you admit to meeting with me?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then we stonewall her and she's got nothing.
speaker2: she's gonna take the story to drudge, or roll call...shit like that.
speaker1: you can't stop her?
speaker2: she's trying to blackmail me - wants info about thompson.
speaker1: then tell her what she wants to know.
speaker2: i can't do that.
speaker1: you can't let this story get out.
speaker2: i'm not gonna be blackmailed tom.
speaker1: you don't have much of a choice here.

speaker1: if i tell her about thompson i gotta tell her he's gonna endorse you guys. 
speaker2: then tell her. i can handle it from my side if i start getting calls.
speaker1: no way. paul told her we had thompson in the bag. it'll make us look like fools.
speaker2: you're gonna look like fools anyway when he endorses us.
speaker1: i can't do it.
speaker2: you're on a sinking ship steve. tell her what she wants to know and jump. come over to our side. we can control this thing. pause.
speaker2: steve?
speaker1: i gotta go.

speaker1: you scared me. 
speaker2: take this.
speaker2: it's almost 1800 bucks... you make the appointment now... today... from a pay phone... i'll take you to the clinic and pick you up... no one else... you understand?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you take the rest of the money and you buy a ticket home... you can't be here anymore... we can't afford it... not with everything that's gonna happen in the next week. this situation just can't be here.
speaker1: you mean i can't be here.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: but i would never tell anyone...
speaker2: i would hope not.
speaker1: then why?
speaker2: you up, molly...
speaker1: he and i both up.

speaker1: but i have a responsibility to him... and more importantly i have a responsibility to this campaign. 
speaker2: i could go to north carolina and work on the campaign...
speaker1: molly you've go to wake the up... this is the big leagues... it's mean...and when you make mistakes you lose your right to play. make the appointment and tell me when and where we have to go.

speaker1: so just call me when you can leave okay. 
speaker2: i hate this
speaker1: i'll be back, this'll all be over...
speaker2: yeah...

speaker1: absolutely -there's no question about it .... 
speaker1: but we've got to think broader strokes here, rethink everything....uh-huh....yeah, i know how to handle it....look,stevie just got here. can i call you back in a few minutes? ..okay, bye. the governor. we had a good long talk on the way back. he's up to speed with everything.
speaker2: how'd he take it?
speaker1: better than i thought he would. still won't take thompson's endorsement.
speaker2: paul-i gotta tell you something.
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: ida knows i met with duffy.
speaker2: i don't know how she found out. tried to blackmail me. said she was gonna let the story out if i didn't tell her what happened at your meeting with thompson.
speaker1: so it's gonna hit the papers.
speaker2: probably. yeah. whoever she takes it to, they're gonna call me for a statement.

speaker1: i could just deny the whole thing, but if they call duffy and he admits to it, that could look worse. if i say no comment they won't let up. 
speaker2: i leaked it to ida. pause.
speaker2: at the event.
speaker3: i don't understand.
speaker2: we made a deal.
speaker3: paul...they're gonna print that story in the paper tomorrow morning.
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: but why? why would you do that to me? why would you do that to the campaign.
speaker2: the campaign will survive.
speaker3: then why would you do that to me?
speaker2: makes it easier to let you go.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: why'd you meet with duffy?
speaker3: i made a mistake - a stupid mistake.

speaker1: no stephen. you didn't make a mistake. you made a choice. you called me and left a message to call back...that it was important. but when i did...you said to forget about it. you chose not to tell me. why did you make that choice? 
speaker2: i didn't think it was important.
speaker1: sure you did. but you went because you were curious, because you were flattered. because it made you feel special to think duffy wanted to speak to you instead of me. because you thought to yourself: maybe i can get something out of this. because it made you feel big. first campaign i ran tiny little race in kentucky -state senate seat. workin for redneck nobody named mcguthrie. had no money, no staff, no office. everyone thought we didn't stand a chance. there's no way we can compete. and about this time, a guy running a congressional campaign a few districts over gives me a call. says, "i really like what you were able to do for poor ole' sam. but let's face it, he's a goner, so why don't you come work for me?" what do i do? well stephen -this is where you and i are different. i told sam about the call. and sam says to me, "paul, you think this other's guy's got a shot at winning, and he can pay you more than anything i can afford, so if it's what you feel you need to do, then i won't get in your way." so i say, "sam -you took a chance and hired me when i was even more of nobody than you are, and i'd be if i'm gonna jump ship just because the hit the fan." we lost the race, but three years later, when sam decided to run for governor -who do you think he called? we won that race.

speaker1: and twenty years later i'm where i am now. there's only one thing i value in this world steve, and that's loyalty. without it you're nothing and you have no one. and in politics it's the only currency that you can count on. that's why i'm letting you go. not because you're not good enough. but i value trust over skill. and i don't trust you anymore. 
speaker2: well it really isn't whether you trust me, it's whether the governor does.
speaker1: the governor knows, he thinks it's the right thing to do.
speaker2: he does.
speaker1: if i were you? i'd get a good night sleep because you're gonna get pounded by calls from the press in the morning...

speaker1: do you have a ride? 
speaker1: okay...if you need anything you just call the clinic...okay.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: hey, where were you today? 
speaker2: i'm not feeling great ben...

speaker1: you picked a of day to call in sick...jesus...fucking wild day... 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: stephen's off the campaign. paul fired him. some set up about loyalty and it looks like stephen was doubling down with duffy on the pullman campaign. i was sitting in the room when paul told stephen that he was fired. stephen said who's gonna take over and paul said me...and i'm like...easy there soldier...but stephen goes ape then paul gives the speech about loyalty and then on stephen like i've
speaker3: before...christ...humiliating

speaker1: when was this? 
speaker2: molly listen to me...i'm gonna run the campaign under paul...stephen is going to duffy. i just jumped three years ahead...so starting tomorrow morning we go into full damage control and i'm telling you stephen's going ape shit...he said he's taking everyone down on his way out...morris, everybody!
speaker2: i gotta take this. do you need anything?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: where's duffy... 
speaker2: you got an appointment? stephen keeps walking.
speaker3: joe can you excuse us for a minute.

speaker1: i'm in. i'm coming to work for you. 
speaker2: a reporter at roll call phoned me this afternoon.
speaker1: i know who leaked it.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: paul.
speaker2: you told paul?
speaker1: yeah. i told him we met. he leaked it.
speaker2: you shouldn't have told him that.
speaker1: i felt like i should.
speaker2: i've worked with paul. he gets paranoid.
speaker1: obviously.
speaker2: so he fired you.
speaker1: i quit.
speaker2: you're lying to me...come on...
speaker1: i quit! and i can give you everything on morris. everything.

speaker1: i can lay out his whole strategy for you. 
speaker2: i already know his strategy. paul gave it all to thompson.
speaker3: what if i had something else?
speaker2: you'd do that to morris? to paul?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: revenge makes people unpredictable steve. i can't have someone who's unpredictable. who's unstable.
speaker3: i'm not unstable.
speaker2: if it had been a clean break -if you'd left morris before this story broke, that'd be one thing. that we could control. but the way it'd look now -paul fires you and then you come work for us. looks like we're picking up the scraps. puts morris in the drivers seat. i can't have that.
speaker3: what if i had something big?
speaker2: like what?
speaker3: something big. something that'll bring morris down.
speaker2: what is it?

speaker1: give me the job. 
speaker2: it's not gonna happen. i'm sorry. go take a nice long vacation.
speaker2: you're a smart guy steve. everything i said yesterday is true. but maybe politics isn't for you.
speaker1: politics is my life.
speaker2: do yourself a favor. get out now while you still can. go into entertainment, or business, or open a restaurant in costa rica - anything. do what will make you happy. you stay in this business long enough it makes you jaded and cynical.
speaker1: like you?
speaker2: yeah. just like me.
speaker1: you knew i was gonna tell paul.
speaker2: i didn't know. i thought you might, but i didn't know.
speaker1: you knew if i told him he'd fire me.
speaker2: thing you gotta know about paul- he's big on loyalty.
speaker1: yeah i got a nice speech on that.

speaker1: put yourself in my shoes steve. your opponent has the best media mind in the country working on his team. what do you try to do? you either try to hire him yourself, or work it so if you can't have him, the other team can't either. this was a win-win situation for me. you work for us -great. paul doesn't have you. then again, if paul fires you and i don't take you -fine - paul still doesn't have you. either way i win. the moment i got you to sit down in that chair, i knew i'd won. 
speaker2: this is my life you're talking about.
speaker1: it's not easy for me to do this sort of thing steve. don't think i take any pleasure in it. i'm sorry for you. i really am. take care of yourself.
speaker3: stephen pulls into the parking lot.

speaker1: no ma'am she's not breathing...no nothing... 
speaker1: ...i don't know, fifteen minutes...how far away are they?
speaker1: do you know her?
speaker1: she's gone. we hear the sound of a distant ambulance.
speaker1: hello...i'm sorry what? yes i can hear them now...

speaker1: uhm...where are you?...it's uhh... it's four something...they're gonna close in a few minutes... 
speaker2: stephen, it's ben...listen ...what the fuck...did paul lose his mind?...jesus...what're you gonna do? call me.
speaker1: stephen i just heard from ben...please don't do anything up... godamnit you pick up the phone! don't do it you beep.
speaker1: i'm not going away... beep. stephen hangs up.

speaker1: i want on the ticket...you need me on the ticket...and you need my delegates...you could use em before tuesday. make a fine story on the sunday morning news cycle...so i expect to hear from you by noon tomorrow...or i endorse pullman and take my cabinet seat. 
speaker1: anything else you want to talk about?

speaker1: is suicide ruled out? 
speaker2: we have no reason to believe...
speaker2: i don't think we have any of that information yet. obviously there will be a full investigation. just wanted to say that our hearts go out...our prayers go out to the entire family...and she was part of our family.
speaker3: did you know her well governor?
speaker2: not well. but i did know her, and what i saw was a hard working, young woman, with a great and positive spirit. it's a very sad day in our campaign and a very sad day for the people close to jack.
speaker4: how long has she interned with you governor?
speaker5: she'd only been on the road with us for a few weeks...maybe four i think, i can check.
speaker1: will you continue with your schedule today? you're set to tour proctor and gamble this afternoon.

speaker1: it seems you have something you want to talk about. 
speaker2: does it seem that way?

speaker1: if you have something...or think you have something you want to get off your chest... 
speaker2: what's say i do the talking and you do the listening.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: as of tomorrow morning there's going to be some changes in your campaign. paul is out. i will be your senior campaign manager. i'll draft a statement, "we're at a point in the campaign where some changes have to be made etc." you can put your own words in there, you do it better than most.
speaker1: and why would i do that?
speaker2: because you want to win. because you broke the only rule in politics. you want to be president, you can start a war, you can lie, you can cheat, you can bankrupt the country, but you can't the interns...they'll get you for that.
speaker1: what do you think you have stephen? a troubled young girl tells you a story.
speaker2: a troubled young pregnant girl...
speaker1: is that what she told you?
speaker2: ...who needed cash for an abortion.

speaker1: what did you do, give her money? maybe she just wanted cash and you were the perfect guy to hit up. 
speaker2: is that your best play?
speaker1: you need a job that bad stephen? you walk in here with your in your hand...you've got nothing.
speaker2: so how did i get here? you're right mike, there's nothing. no phone messages, no text, no e- mails, no photos or tapes, and yet i'm standing right here.
speaker1: well go home.
speaker2: she left a note.
speaker1: how would you know that?
speaker2: i cleaned up your mess. i took her phone and i found her note.
speaker1: i thought it was an accident.

speaker1: you tell me, you were the last one she called. note says she was pregnant, said you were going to pay for her abortion...it also said she didn't want to hurt you. 
speaker2: then why would she leave a note that could only do that?

speaker1: because she's twenty. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: paul's gone today. i set a meeting with you and thompson where you promise him the ticket. you get three hundred and fifty-six pledged delegates, you get north carolina, and then you take office and make right what so many have made wrong.
speaker2: well i don't believe in extortion...i don't believe in tying myself to you for the next eight years.
speaker1: four years, let's not get ahead of ourselves. a long beat.
speaker2: what were you doing in her room?
speaker1: housekeeping, before you ended up on page one.
speaker2: no. you were already fired, you were out. what were you doing in her room?
speaker1: i was fixing a situation...i got a call, someone from the hotel thought i could help and called me.
speaker2: you were off the campaign, but you thought it was important to come back and fix things? it was your voice on the phone the other night.

speaker1: you were her. what did you do stephen? 
speaker2: i loaned her some money and gave her a ride.
speaker1: i bet you did.

speaker1: there's no note. 
speaker2: okay, there's no note.
speaker1: show it to me.
speaker2: you think i brought it here?
speaker1: okay let's play this out. you're not wearing a wire because everything you've suggested is illegal...and you wouldn't fare well in federal prison. you were her and she told you about her situation. there are no records or conversations between us. and since she's had an abortion, no dna evidence. so if there's no note, then it's your word against mine. your word. a fired, disgruntled, employee, or a sitting governor...there's no note.
speaker2: it's your call governor.

speaker1: how much could a big shake up days before the ohio primary hurt a campaign. i asked paul zara how his firing could actually help the candidate. 
speaker2: the governor and i both felt, that in light of some of these changing numbers, it was best to put a new face on the campaign...stephen is very talented...very smart...

speaker1: you always hear people talking about events out of sequence...the order of things. there is no greater grief than a parent laying their child to rest...she was a little girl trying to make it in a very grown up world...a world were every mistake is magnified and she was smart and pretty and so so young. 
speaker1: father, you ask us to accept plan, to not question his judgment, with all due respect, i don't accept this judgment. she made the world better, not just for me, but for everyone she touched.

speaker1: you should hire jack for a speech writer. 
speaker2: i'll keep that in mind. are you here to talk to me?

speaker1: no. i'm friends with the family. i got her the internship...known her since she was born. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: the governor couldn't make the flight?
speaker2: he's meeting with thompson.
speaker1: look at you, all grown up with and all.
speaker2: i learned from the best.
speaker1: one day we'll grab a beer and you'll tell me what you had on the governor that put me out.
speaker2: how do you know i didn't have something on you?
speaker1: you better get going, you've got a campaign to run and i've got offices to go look at.
speaker2: farragut north?
speaker1: nice consultant firm right off of k street.
speaker1: a million a year and nobody to you over.

speaker1: sounds relaxing. 
speaker2: doesn't it.

speaker1: and the right man to lead this great nation of ours in these challenging times and the next president of the united states of america, governor mike morris!...and i ask only one thing, that all of us stand shoulder to shoulder and arm in arm in a united democratic party. 
speaker1: and i strongly urge that the three hundred and fifty-six loyal delegates that i have carried as a badge of honor, throw their support to the governor. let's end this primary and get on to the business of 1600 pennsylvania ave!
speaker1: thank you. and bless the united states of america.

speaker1: thank you senator thompson! well the polls aren't quite closed, but i want to congratulate senator pullman...and his republican constituents on their win here in ohio. 
speaker1: senator thompson i am honored to stand here today with you. i am humbled by your kind words, thank you. ladies and gentlemen, today marks the beginning of a fight between two sets of ideals. either we're going to move forward or were going to live in the past... either we're going to lead the world in technology, or we are going to bury our heads in the sand... the sands of saudi arabia...the sands of iraq! either we're going to let greed and corruption ruin our industries and our shorelines or we are going to take back our country! we are not a nation used to coming in second or third...

speaker1: no it's not decisive, we still have several contests and those states are going to want to have their say. it does look like we'll win ohio... 
speaker2: but you must concede that these three hundred and fifty-six delegates put the pledged delegates out of reach. and with word today that the super delegates are breaking three to one for morris.
speaker1: we still have a lot of contests rachel, ohio is-
speaker2: well then do you have the funds?
speaker1: of course we have the funds. we're getting new donations daily...
speaker3: hey...ben...i was told to talk to you. i'm supposed to get a phone...
speaker4: right...you're....

speaker1: jill morris...no relation. 
speaker2: are you a bearcat?
speaker1: no...i'm from columbus i'm a buckeye.

speaker1: you're making me look bad. 
speaker2: how so?
speaker1: i just filed a story that said you were off the campaign and thompson was going to pullman.
speaker2: you can't believe everything you read.
speaker1: i want to give you an opportunity to comment on my next story. it says that you delivered thompson...you got the three hundred and fifty-six delegates, you delivered the nomination. and all you asked in return was paul's job. any chance of you confirming that?
speaker2: no press beyond this point...she's press. i'll read about it in the funny papers.

speaker1: come on stephen...aren't we friends anymore? 
speaker2: you're my best friend ida.

speaker1: you should be able to hear them...do you hear them? 
speaker2: yeah i can hear them.
speaker1: good, quick mic check can you count to ten for me?
speaker1: they're coming to you in about forty five seconds.

speaker1: senator thompson i am proud that you have brought integrity back to this election. because that's what this comes down to, integrity. who we are. because how we project ourselves to the rest of the world matters!...dignity matters!...integrity matters!...our future depends on it! 
speaker2: coming to you in five...four...three...two...
speaker3: we now have governor morris's new senior campaign advisor, stephen myers, coming to us from xavier university where senator thompson has just endorsed governor morris, essentially ending this primary race. stephen, can you give us some insight into how this whole thing unfolded?

