speaker1: it is an important and popular fact that things are not always what they seem. 
speaker1: for instance, on the planet earth, man had always assumed that he was the most intelligent species occupying the planet, instead of the third most intelligent which was, in fact, entirely accurate.
speaker1: the second most intelligent creatures were, of course, dolphins who curiously enough had long known of the impending destruction of the planet earth. they had made many attempts to alert mankind to the danger, but most of their communications were misinterpreted as amusing attempts to punch footballs or whistle for tidbits, so they eventually decided they would leave earth by their own means.
speaker1: the last ever dolphin message was misinterpreted as a surprisingly sophisticated attempt to do a double- backward somersault through a hoop while whistling the "star-spangled banner" but in fact the message was this... "so long and thanks for all the fish." titles roll -

speaker1: what do you mean he's gone out to lunch? you just said he was still at breakfast! 
speaker2: come off it, mr. dent. you can't lie in front of the bulldozers forever.
speaker1: i'm game. we'll see who rusts first.
speaker2: this bypass has got to be built and it's going to be built. you should have made your protest months ago.
speaker1: the first i heard of it was when a workman came yesterday. i asked if he'd come to clean the windows, and he said he'd come to demolish the house. he didn't tell me right away of course. first he wiped a couple of windows and charged me twenty quid. then he told me.

speaker1: look. these plans have been on display at the planning office now for a year. 
speaker2: on display? i had to go down to a cellar!
speaker1: that's the display department.
speaker2: i eventually found them in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying 'beware of the leopard'.
speaker1: mr. dent, have you any idea how much damage that bulldozer would suffer if i just let it roll straight over you?
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: none at all.
speaker3: arthur!
speaker2: ford?
speaker3: arthur! there you are. here drink and eat with me. we need to talk.
speaker2: er, um...now's not the best time, ford they're going to demolish my home,
speaker3: whoa. you already know? how?

speaker1: oh. when you say "they" you mean they. got it. listen, i gotta tell you something important, and i gotta tell you now. 
speaker2: but what about my house?
speaker1: c'mon. let's go to the pub. he said they won't destroy your house until they've finished the beers.
speaker2: can we trust him?
speaker1: i'd trust him to the end of the earth.
speaker2: and how far's that?
speaker1: about twelve minutes away.

speaker1: six pints of bitter. and quickly. the world's about to end. 
speaker2: oh yes, sir? nice weather for it.
speaker3: well, when does he get back from lunch? or is he going straight out for tea?!
speaker3: this is shaping up to be a day.

speaker1: it's about to get a lot crappier. 
speaker2: there you are, six pints.
speaker1: keep the change. you've got ten minutes to spend it. ford pushes three pints in front of arthur.
speaker3: three? at lunchtime?
speaker1: time is an illusion. lunchtime doubly so.
speaker3: very deep. you should send that in to the reader's digest. they've got a page for people like you.
speaker1: drink up.
speaker3: why three pints?
speaker1: muscle relaxant. and eat these. you'll need the salt.
speaker3: what's going on. ford?
speaker1: what would you say if i told you i wasn't really from guilford but from a small planet somewhere in the vicinity of eetelgeuse?
speaker3: why, is it the sort of thing you're likely to say?
speaker1: remember when we met? that car was racing toward me, i was trying to greet it, you pushed me out of the way?

speaker1: didn't you find it a little strange that i was trying to shake hands with a car? 
speaker2: i assumed you were drunk.
speaker1: i thought cars were the dominant life form. i was trying to introduce myself.
speaker2: and that's why you're named after a discontinued car from the seventies?
speaker1: you saved my life that day. now i'm saving yours.
speaker2: this must be thursday. i never could get the hang of thursdays.
speaker1: look, if it's about your house...
speaker2: no, it's not that. it's....
speaker2: i found her. ford. the perfect girl. i found her, and then i let her get away. you remember that fancy dress party i told you about?
speaker1: this isn't a long story, is it? we've only got six minutes.

speaker1: okay. talk and drink. fancy dress party. 
speaker2: at that flat in islington. i told you about it. last week, remember?

speaker1: i can't bear those sort of parties, didn't want to go, would have much rather stayed home and, i don't know, brush the dog. anything. but there i was -- and then, there she was... 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i'm arthur. arthur dent.
speaker2: no, i mean who are you?
speaker1: oh, the costume. right. er, um... livingston, i presume. granted. not as clever as darwin, but the best i could do on short notice.
speaker2: you're the first person who's got it right. everyone keeps calling me sherlock.
speaker1: really? i thought the beagle made it rather obvious.

speaker1: really? i thought the beagle made it rather obvious. he pets the dog. she smiles. he smiles back. 9 a camera flash flashes. jump cut to... 9 
speaker1: she was amazing, ford. witty, and beautiful, and brilliant. four or five degrees. one in math, one in astrophysics, another in biology...
speaker2: i've got so many degrees i am officially unemployable. let's drink to that!
speaker1: and just as i was asking myself, "why is this stunning and intelligent woman even giving me the time of day, out of nowhere she says...
speaker2: let's go somewhere.
speaker1: yeah. it is a bit noisy. there's a lovely little cafe around the corner...
speaker2: i was thinking madagascar.
speaker1: is that a new club on dean street?
speaker2: no. it's a country. off the coast of africa.
speaker1: oh, that madagascar. right, off we go then. good you're serious.

speaker1: well...that's...an extraordinary proposition. but...i can't just up and go. what about my job? 
speaker2: quit. get a new one when we return.
speaker1: i can't just...what about my house? who would feed my dog?
speaker2: bring him with.
speaker1: he's a welsh collie. he'd feel all out of place in madagascar. trillian forces a smile, clearly disappointed.
speaker3: you don't want to go to madagascar.
speaker3: hi. i'm zaphod beeblebrox, president of the galaxy -- of course, you probably already know that. i'm headed for a lost and distant planet. would you like to see my spaceship?
speaker1: i went to refresh our drinks. when i came back, she was gone.

speaker1: "would you like to see my spaceship?" really, what sort of chat up line is that? 
speaker2: more popular than you'd think.
speaker1: i've left messages, sent letters... it's like she's vanished off the face of the earth.

speaker1: hey, it happens. speaking of... we've got two minutes. so drink up. 
speaker2: my house!
speaker1: a round for everyone, on me.
speaker3: you really think the world's going to end? shouldn't we lie down or put a bag over our heads or something?
speaker1: if you want.
speaker3: will it help?
speaker1: not really.
speaker3: last orders, then?

speaker1: ships from a vogon constructor fleet. i picked up their signal this morning. 
speaker2: here. you'll need this.

speaker1: what do you mean you've never been to alpha centauri? oh, for heaven's sake mankind, it's only four light years away you know. i'm sorry, but if you can't be bothered to take an interest in local affairs that's your own lookout. pull back farther - people lay on the ground with paper bags on their heads. 
speaker2: apathetic planet, i've no sympathy at all. energize the demolition beams.

speaker1: the hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy is a wholly remarkable book... 
speaker1: ...perhaps the most remarkable, certainly the most successful book ever to come out of the great publishing corporations of ursa minor.
speaker1: more popular than the celestial home care omnibus, better selling than 53 more things to do in zero gravity, and more controversial than oolon colluphid's trilogy of philosophical blockbusters,

speaker1: so you're not from guilford, which would explain the accent -- which i've always wondered about...and you're not an out of work actor -- but rather a writer for this...this...book thing. ford nods. arthur rubs his weary brow. 
speaker1: i don't feel well. i need a cup of tea.
speaker2: here. eat these. if you've never been through a transmat beam before you've probably lost some salt and protein.
speaker1: if i asked where we were would i regret
speaker2: we're safe. for now.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: we're in a storage hold in one of the ships of the vogon constructor fleet ...
speaker1: obviously some strange usage of the word safe i wasn't previously aware of.
speaker2: is it?
speaker1: tell me you're joking.
speaker2: okay. i'm joking.
speaker1: and do a reassuring little laugh.
speaker1: now tell me where we really are.

speaker1: in the storage hold of a vogon constructor ship. 
speaker2: get me home. ford.
speaker1: home? arthur...your home... is...
speaker2: oh - it was demolished! i've got to reach my lawyer! he must be back from lunch by now...
speaker1: you don't remember, do you? okay. i've got something to tell you. it ain't gonna be easy, but you're gonna have to just deal, okay?
speaker2: good is this really the interior of a flying saucer?
speaker1: yeah. why?

speaker1: well, it's a bit squalid isn't it? 
speaker2: hey man, you're in denial.

speaker1: blown up? blown up?! couldn't you have done something?!! 
speaker2: i did. i saved you.

speaker1: but there's six billion other people. 
speaker2: and all those ants.
speaker1: yes, but ants aren't exactly people!
speaker2: and now you're thinking like a vogon. i saved your life, okay? which makes us even. next thing.
speaker2: it's a tough galaxy. you want to survive out here, you really gotta know where your towel is. now gimme a hand over here.
speaker2: careful, it's hot.
speaker2: we've got to get off this ship before the vogons find us. vogons hate hitchhikers. which is why they make ships with walls that won't allow the sub-etna signal to pass through. so we've got to send the signal up and out if we wanna catch a ride. pull. they both pull. a section of pipe snaps off. steam
speaker1: what's a vogon?
speaker2: ask the guide. say "vogons."
speaker1: "vogons."
speaker3: vogons.

speaker1: vogons are one of the most unpleasant races in the galaxy - not evil, but bad- tempered, bureaucratic, officious and callous. they wouldn't even lift a finger to save their own grandmothers from the ravenous bugblatter beast of traal without orders signed in triplicate, sent in, sent back, queried, lost, found, subjected to public inquiry, lost again, and finally buried in soft peat for three months and recycled as fire-lighters. 
speaker1: the best way to get a drink out of a vogon is to stick your finger down his throat. arthur touches 'what to avoid'.
speaker1: on no account should you allow a vogon to read poetry to you.
speaker2: they can't think, they can't imagine, most of them can't even spell. they just run things. and if we don't get a ride soon, you won't b need the guide to illustrate just how unpleasant the vogons can be. they've destroyed a planet today, that always makes them a little feisty.
speaker2: shhh!

speaker1: earth. 
speaker1: harmless.

speaker1: that's it? that's all this idiotic book has to say about my home? "harmless?" 
speaker2: hey, there are a hundred billion stars in the galaxy and only a limited amount of space in the book's microprocessors. no one knew much about earth. that's why i was there. to expand the entry. i fired off a new one to the editor before i got stranded.
speaker1: what does it say now?
speaker2: mostly harmless.
speaker1: ahhh, what the is that?!
speaker2: here. put this in your ear.

speaker1: argh! what's happening...? 
speaker2: this is your captain speaking, so stop whatever you're doing and pay attention!
speaker3: the fish. it's translating for you.
speaker2: according to our instruments we have unwittingly picked up a couple of hitchhikers who must be apprehended and...

speaker1: ...and this is not a taxi service for degenerate freeloaders. 
speaker2: resistance is useless!
speaker3: the babelfish is small, yellow, leechlike, and probably the oddest thing in the universe.

speaker1: it feeds on brainwave energy, absorbing unconscious frequencies and excreting a matrix of conscious frequencies to the speech centres of the brain, the practical upshot of which is that if you stick one in your ear, you instantly understand anything said to you in any language. 
speaker1: now, it is such a bizarrely improbable thing that anything so mind-bogglingly useful could have evolved in the universe purely by chance that many thinkers have chosen to see this as a final clinching proof of the non-existence of
speaker1: the argument goes something like this... "i refuse to prove that i exist," says "for proof denies faith, and without faith i am nothing."

speaker1: "but," says man, "the babelfish is a dead give-away. it proves you exist, and so therefore you don't. qed." "oh dear," says "i hadn't thought of that," and promptly vanishes in a puff of logic. 
speaker1: most leading theologians claim that this argument is a load of dingo's kidneys but that didn't stop oolon colluphid from making a small fortune when he used it as the central theme of his best-selling book,

speaker1: resistance is useless! 
speaker2: ford...
speaker3: don't panic. if we're lucky, they'll throw us out into space.
speaker2: and if we're unlucky?

speaker1: vogon poetry is widely accepted as the third worst in the universe. 
speaker1: the second worst is that of the azgoths of kria. during a recitation by their poet master grunthos the flatulent of his poem "ode to a small lump of green putty i found in my armpit one midsummer morning," four of his audience died of internal hemorrhaging, and the president of the mid- galactic arts nobbling council survived by gnawing one of his own legs off.
speaker2: or i shall rend thee in the gobberwarts with my blurglecruncheaon, see if i don't!
speaker1: the absolute worst poetry was written by paula nancy millstone jennings of sussix. it involved decaying swans. luckily, it was destroyed when the earth was.
speaker2: so, earthlings, i present you with a simple choice. either die in the vacuum of space, or -- tell what you thought of my poem.
speaker3: actually...i rather liked it.
speaker4: good tact. run with it.
speaker3: um...some of the words i didn't understand, but i found the imagery quite effective.
speaker2: continue. . .

speaker1: and, um, interesting rhythmic devices which seemed to counterpoint the surrealism of the underlying metaphor of the humanity... 
speaker2: vogonity!
speaker1: ... vogonity, sorry. vogonity of the poet's soul, which contrives through the medium of the verse structure to sublimate, er...
speaker2: ... whatever it was ...
speaker1: ... the poem was about.
speaker2: 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i think you just saved my life again.
speaker3: an astute analysis. very impressive. throw them off the ship.
speaker4: resistance is useless!
speaker3: hmph. "counterpoint the surrealism of the underlying metaphor..." death's too good for them.
speaker1: so this is it? we're going to die?

speaker1: yes. no, wait! what's this switch? no, it's nothing. we are going to die. 
speaker2: you know, it's at times like this, when i'm trapped in a vogon airlock with a man from betelgeuse and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that i really wish i'd listened to what my mother told me when i was young.
speaker1: why? what did you she tell you?
speaker2: i don't know. i didn't listen.
speaker1: you're sweating.

speaker1: "space..." says the introduction to the hitchhikers guide, "...is big. really big. you just won't believe how vastly, hugely mind-bogglingly big it is. i mean, you may think it's a long way down the road to the market, but that's just peanuts compared to space..." and so on. 
speaker1: it also says that if you hold a lung full of air you can survive in the total vacuum of space for about thirty seconds -- but with space being really big and all, the chances of being picked up within that time are 2 to the power of 2076775949 to 1 against...

speaker1: ...which, by a staggering coincidence, is also the telephone number of the islington flat where arthur once went to a fancy dress party and met a very nice girl whom he totally failed to connect with. 
speaker2: two to the power of one hundred thousand to one against and falling...

speaker1: two to the power of ten thousand to one against and falling. 
speaker2: ford...
speaker3: yes?
speaker2: i think i'm a sofa.
speaker3: i think i know how you feel.
speaker1: five to one against and falling... a pair of arms and legs pop out of each sofa.
speaker4: four to one against and falling...

speaker1: so, in the name of the people and freedom and, i dunno, democracy and stuff like that, i hereby declare this ship officially stolen! 
speaker2: three to one...two to one...
speaker3: probability factor of one to one...we have normality, i repeat we have normality. anything you still can't cope with is therefore your own problem. please relax.
speaker1: hey. do you mind? i can't hear.
speaker3: can we put your ego aside for one moment? something important has happened.
speaker1: if there's anything more important than my ego on this ship, i want it caught and shot now. he turns back to the tv and turns it up.
speaker4: ...the question everyone seems to be asking is, has the big z finally flipped? we asked his private brain care specialist, gag halfrunt...
speaker5: vell, zaphod's just zis guy, you know --

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: we have a couple of hitchhikers in our receiving bay.
speaker2: i didn't pick them up. the ship did.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: when you engaged the improbability drive.
speaker1: i didn't engage the drive.
speaker2: we picked them up in sector zz9 plural z alpha -- where you picked me up.
speaker1: that's impossible.
speaker2: no. just very, very improbable.
speaker1: i don't have time for this! we've got the police of half the galaxy after us and we stop to pick up hitchhikers?! okay, so ten out of ten for style, but minus several million for good thinking, eh?
speaker2: don't. i'll send marvin. marvin!
speaker3: i think you ought to know i'm feeling very depressed.
speaker2: we have something to take your mind off things.

speaker1: it won't work, i have an exceptionally large mind. 
speaker2: i know. go down to the number two entry bay and bring the two aliens up here.
speaker1: just that?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i won't enjoy it.
speaker3: she's not asking you to enjoy it. just do it will you?
speaker1: all right. i'll do it.
speaker1: i'm not getting you down at all am i?
speaker2: no, no, marvin, it's fine really. it's just part of life.
speaker1: life. don't talk to me about life.
speaker4: mmmmmyaaahhhhhh!

speaker1: get me the vice-president. 
speaker1: hyperspace permission granted, captain.

speaker1: now this is more like my idea of a spaceship. look at all these buttons... 
speaker2: shhh.
speaker2: this way.
speaker3: thank you for using this door. i've enjoyed opening for you. hhmmyaahh...
speaker4: ghastly, isn't it?

speaker1: i've been ordered to take you up to the bridge. here i am, brain the size of a planet, and they ask me to take you up to the bridge. call that job satisfaction? - 'cause i don't. 
speaker2: what a pleasure it is to open for you. i will gladly close for you now.
speaker1: "all the doors in this spacecraft have a cheerful and sunny disposition. it is their pleasure to open for you, and their satisfaction to close again with the knowledge of a job well done.
speaker1: hateful, isn't it? you can thank the marketing division of the sirius cybernetics corporation for building robots with gpp.

speaker1: "genuine people personalities." i'm a personality prototype. you can tell can't you? 
speaker2: er. . .
speaker1: sorry, did i say something wrong? pardon me for breathing, which i never do anyway, so i don't know why i even bother to say it. oh i'm so depressed. they round a corner...

speaker1: and then i've got this terrible pain in all the diodes down my left side. i've asked for them to be replaced but no one ever listens. 
speaker2: really? wonder why?
speaker3: probably because he's so negative.
speaker2: yes, i know. i was being...never mind.

speaker1: i've brought the aliens. don't thank me or anything. 
speaker2: freeze!
speaker1: do you mean sit in a corner and rust or just fall apart where i'm standing?
speaker2: i wasn't talking to you.
speaker3: zaphod?
speaker2: ixxie? it is you! ixxie!
speaker2: praxibetel ix, you zarking hoopy! what the are you doing here?
speaker3: i don't know! just stuck out the thumb and here i am.

speaker1: that is so you. 
speaker2: and look at you! president? last time i saw you, you were a beach bum.
speaker1: is it a great galaxy or what? i still can't believe this. ixxie! here!

speaker1: hey, it's ford now. 
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: my name. it's ford prefect. picked it up on earth. sorta grew on me.
speaker2: okay "ford" -- you zarking frood.
speaker1: oh, this is arthur. arthur, this is zaphod beeblebrox. my cousin? semi-half brother?
speaker2: he shares three of the same mothers as me.
speaker3: we've met.
speaker2: have we? sorry. i've got a terrible memory for species.
speaker4: everything okay?
speaker2: hey, hon. come here. you won't believe this. ix...um, sorry..."ford"...this is...
speaker3: tricia mcmillan?
speaker4: arthur?

speaker1: i can't believe this...i've been looking...and you're here? i went to get wine and... 
speaker2: i know. and it was rude to just leave, but i told you i wanted to get away, and he had a spaceship parked outside, well, honestly -- i assumed you were a sort of stay-at-home-and-read-a book type. but you're here...
speaker1: actually -- i am that type. but...well you do know what happened, don't you?
speaker3: --ford picked him up, they hitched a ride, and here we all are. now, enough small talk, trill. we're on the run, remember? i stole a ship?
speaker1: we're having a bit of a chat if you don't mind.
speaker4: you blew it with her, earthman, so shut up or i'll kick you in the gones!
speaker5: there's the zaphod i remember.
speaker4: you should teach your pal a lesson, ford. he's a guest on my ship.
speaker5: i thought you said you stole it.

speaker1: fine. get technical. 
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker3: i feel like a i've spent all week looking for tricia mcmillan and that isn't even your name.
speaker2: it is my name. i shortened it.
speaker4: trillian...!
speaker3: well, i'm still arthur. just plain average one-headed doesn't-own-a-space ship arthur. sorry to disappoint.
speaker4: a little help over here?
speaker1: they're after us! fire a gun! launch a missile! do some damage! zaphod's arms struggle with his head again. 38a quick shot. deep space 38a
speaker2: computer?
speaker5: hi, guys, this is eddie your shipboard computer and i just know i'm gonna get a bundle of kicks out of any program you want to run through me.
speaker2: can you identify our pursuers?

speaker1: i'd be happy to! stand by, please. hey, guys, i'm just pleased as punch to report that it's a fleet of a hundred vogon battle destroyers. you must be super important to warrant such an effort, and gee am i impressed. they're sending a message. i'd be super happy to play it. 
speaker2: fine! play it!!

speaker1: leap to hyperspace! 
speaker2: sure thing, fella, but i should tell you we need proper authorization before entering a hyperspace expressway.
speaker1: or else what? they'll send a hundred and one ships? do it!
speaker3: brace yourself. this is a bit like being drunk.
speaker4: what's so bad about being drunk?
speaker3: ask a glass of water.

speaker1: did they have proper hyperspace authorization? 
speaker2: no, commander.
speaker1: add that to their list of offences! blatant disregard for protocol.
speaker3: you do realize he did what he did because he knew this is what you would do.
speaker1: rules are rules, mr. vice president. and they are made to be followed.
speaker3: don't you think this many ships is a bit, oh i don't know -- excessive?
speaker1: the provisions are clear. under subsection 37a these are the forces we deploy to protect the president in the case of an attempted or actual kidnapping- he holds up one fat official book with one hand.
speaker1: -- and these are the forces we deploy to apprehend any intentional or actual kidnapper. he holds up another fat book with the other.
speaker3: you are aware, commander, that the president kidnapped himself.
speaker1: hence...
speaker3: do you have any idea how ridiculous this is?
speaker1: i don't have ideas mr. vice president. i just do what i do.

speaker1: damn, i'm good. 
speaker2: so -- you along for the ride or am i dropping you somewhere?
speaker3: depends. where you going?
speaker2: into the pages of history, cousin. and when you see what i'm about to show you, you'll beg me to take you with us.
speaker4: you okay?
speaker5: normally i would say "i'll live," but given the circumstances... is there any tea on this spaceship?
speaker4: this way.
speaker2: hey, apeman. earthman. i'm sorry, what was your name again?
speaker5: arthur.

speaker1: right. no hard feelings, okay? and sorry to hear about your planet, but don't mention it to the girl because if you do i'll...i'll... 
speaker2: i'll pull your spleen out through your ass!
speaker3: two heads. interesting choice.
speaker1: apparently you can't be president with a whole brain.
speaker3: so you carved it up?
speaker1: yes -- i think. and i think i did it in such a way that it wouldn't be detected by the government screening tests -- or by me. so, what's so secret that i can't let anybody know i know it, not the galactic government, not even myself? and the answer is-- --i don't know. obviously. but i put a few things together and that's when i realized i had this.

speaker1: i suppose i should have said it resembles tea. 
speaker2: so two heads is what does it for a girl, then? i mean, if i'd had two heads. or three?
speaker1: or your own space ship.

speaker1: anything else he's got two of? 
speaker2: come on, arthur, don't be like that.
speaker1: well, what am i supposed to be like?
speaker2: just be yourself. have some fun. does it hurt?
speaker1: no, i suppose it wouldn't..
speaker2: i mean...
speaker2: i might have an aspirin.
speaker2: hey. what are they doing in there?
speaker3: they were from my lab at university. odd...
speaker1: so all that's left is me and you, "mostly harmless," and two lab rats. she furrows her brow. what does he mean?
speaker1: look, there's something i should tell you...
speaker4: showtime, trill!
speaker2: can it keep? you might want to see this.

speaker1: what is this great task for which i, deep thought, the second greatest computer of all time have been called into existence? 
speaker2: your task, o computer...
speaker3: hang on. did you say second greatest?
speaker1: second greatest. yes.
speaker3: but we designed you to be the greatest computer so you could...
speaker2: you're not talking about the milliard gargantubrain which can count all the atoms in a star in a millisecond?
speaker1: the milliard gargantubrain? a mere abacus, mention it not.
speaker3: the omnicognate neutron wrangler then?

speaker1: the omnicognate neutron wrangler could argue all four legs off an arcturan megadonkey, but only i could persuade it to go for a walk afterwards. 
speaker2: then what's the problem?
speaker1: i am the greatest computer you are able to design without my help. which, one day, you are going to need.
speaker3: let's just ask the question.
speaker2: oh deep thought, your task is this. we want you to tell us -- the answer.
speaker1: the answer...to what?
speaker3: you know. the answer. to life...the universe...everything.
speaker2: we'd really like an answer. something simple. can you do it?
speaker1: the ultimate question of life, the universe and everything. yes. there is an answer. but i'll have to think about it.
speaker1: return to this place in exactly... seven and a half million years.
speaker4: what?!
speaker5: that's it?

speaker1: no, no. there's more. they go back. 
speaker2: seven and a half million years later?

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: deep thought. do you have...
speaker1: an answer for you? yes. i have.
speaker2: there really is an answer?
speaker1: yes. there really is one.
speaker2: oh!
speaker3: can you tell us what it is?
speaker1: yes. though i don't think you're going to like it.
speaker2: doesn't matter! we must know it!
speaker1: you're really not going to like it.
speaker2: tell us!
speaker1: alright. the answer to the ultimate question ...
speaker3: yes ...

speaker1: ... of life, the universe, and everything ... 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: ... is ...
speaker3: yes ...!
speaker1: forty two.
speaker1: i checked it thoroughly. it would have been simpler, of course, to have known what the actual question was.
speaker4: but it was the question. the ultimate question!
speaker1: yes, but what actually is it?
speaker2: everything! you know ... just everything!

speaker1: give us the ultimate question then!! 
speaker2: i can't. but there is one who can. a computer that is to come after me, one that i will design. a computer to calculate the ultimate question, one of such infinite complexity that life itself will form part of its operational matrix. and you yourselves shall take on new more primitive forms and go down into the computer to navigate its ten million year program. i shall design this computer for you. and it shall be called...

speaker1: that's it? 
speaker2: that's it.
speaker1: you're looking for the ultimate question?
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: you.
speaker2: me.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: no, i tried that. "why?" "forty-two." doesn't work. let's get her ready, babe.
speaker1: i mean, why do you want to know the ultimate question?
speaker2: oh. well -- partly the curiosity, partly a sense of adventure, but mostly i think it's for the fame and the money.
speaker3: but -- you're president of the galaxy, aren't you?
speaker2: yes, arman.
speaker3: arthur.
speaker2: whatever. presidential fame is temporary, i find the question, that's permanent. it sticks. plus everyone thinks you're deep. win-win.

speaker1: but you don't know the name of the computer that other computer was talking about. 
speaker2: which is why i'm going there.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: there. to find deep thought. on magrathea.
speaker1: magrathea!? magrathea is a myth, a legend...
speaker2: no, it isn't. it's real, cousin. and this is the only ship in the universe that can get you there.
speaker1: you mean to tell me you carved up your brain so you could become president so you would get invited to the launching ceremony of this ship...so you could steal it... so you could go to magrathea -- which, according to most sane people, doesn't even exist?
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: beautiful.
speaker3: why this ship? what's so special about it?
speaker2: i don't seem to be letting myself in on any of my secrets.
speaker4: because of this, obviously.

speaker1: infinite improbability drive? so they finally built one that works. and that's how we got picked up. 
speaker2: exactly. and i'm guessing if we hit that button -- we go to magrathea.
speaker3: you're guessing?
speaker2: hey, anyone who's not up for that, there's the door. now who's in?
speaker1: for a trip to a place that doesn't exist? i'm in. my editor will think i'm crazy, but what the -- he already thinks i'm dead.
speaker4: definitely. i'm in.
speaker3: do i even have a choice?
speaker2: no!
speaker3: what exactly does an infinite improbability drive do?

speaker1: such generators were often used to break the ice at parties by making all the molecules in the hostess's undergarments leap simultaneously one foot to the left, in accordance with the theory of indeterminacy. kwaltz and questular appear on the monitor. 
speaker2: well, captain...?
speaker1: many respectable physicists said they weren't going to stand for that sort of thing partly because it was a debasement of science, but mostly because they didn't get invited to those sort of parties.
speaker3: we had them sir. these are the coordinates. but -- they're not here.
speaker2: i can see that. where are they?

speaker1: is this going to happen every time we hit that button? 
speaker2: very probably, yes.
speaker3: did it work? are we there?
speaker4: yes!...i think. computer?
speaker5: hi, fella!
speaker6: can you please change that zarking annoying voice!!?
speaker7: computer? what planet is that, please?

speaker1: thanks for waiting, everyone. i'm just tickled pink to tell you we are currently in orbit around the planet viltvodle 6. 
speaker2: humma kavula!

speaker1: sir, the heart of gold has just requested permission to land on viltvodle 6. should i pursue? 
speaker2: that is not a request to which i can respond, captain. should i pursue what? are you requesting hyperspace clearance so that you may pursue the fugitive?
speaker1: yes, commander.
speaker2: then you must say that, captain -- in request form.
speaker1: requesting hyperspace clearance to pursue the fugitive, sir.
speaker2: thank you. request acknowledged. await response.

speaker1: this is ridiculous! what do you need, an executive order? fine. i order you. stop doing this! go and get him! 
speaker2: according to subsection 94b, paragraph 2, you're not authorized to make such an order.
speaker1: but i'm acting president!
speaker2: then act like a president, and do nothing.

speaker1: why does he keep saying that? 
speaker2: i don't know. i'm not used to seeing him this way.
speaker1: you mean fully clothed?
speaker1: sorry, but i can't for the life of me figure out why you, the most brilliant woman i have ever met, have ended up with that half-witted, self-obsessed, vapid politician! i mean, look at him!

speaker1: clearly unlike any guy i've ever met. look, if you're going to pout your way around space, then maybe you should just go home. 
speaker2: i can't. that's the whole point -- and i've been trying to tell you...
speaker3: hey, look what i found in the guide.
speaker3: i wouldn't tell her if i were you.
speaker2: she deserves to know.
speaker3: but if you tell her and she ends up with you because you're literally the last guy on earth -- you'll always doubt her intentions. arthur considers this. nods.
speaker3: got your towel?
speaker2: do i need it?
speaker3: only always.
speaker4: in the beginning, the universe was created. this made a lot of people very angry and has been widely regarded as a bad move. zaphod continues several steps ahead of them.
speaker4: many races believe that it was created by some sort of though the jatravartid people of viltvodle 6 firmly believe that the entire universe was in fact sneezed out of the nose of a being called the great green arkleseizure. the jatravartids, who live in perpetual fear

speaker1: of the time they call "the coming of great white handkerchief" are small blue creatures with more than fifty arms each. ...who are therefore unique in being the only race in history to have invented the aerosol deodorant before the wheel. 
speaker2: humma kavula!
speaker3: i'll handle this.
speaker4: the handkerchief is coming, beloveds. are you ready? let us pray that the almighty will exhale a breath of compassion on us.
speaker4: almighty arkleseizure, we lift our noses, clogged and unblown in reverence to you.
speaker3: hello, humma.

speaker1: that's humma kavula? i thought he was just using a swear word. 
speaker2: humma kavula was his opponent in the election. something happened during the campaign. zaphod never forgave him.
speaker1: what was it?
speaker3: send the handkerchief, lord, so that it may wipe us clean. we ask this in your precious holy name...
speaker4: achoo.
speaker3: bless you.

speaker1: zaphod beeblebrox, our famous president. the arkleseizure has exhaled many blessings upon you. what brings you to our humble planet? 
speaker2: i think you know why i'm here.
speaker1: i don't think i do.
speaker2: oh, i think you think you don't, but we both know -- you do.
speaker1: elequent as always, zaphod. your ability to communicate a clear thought never ceases to amaze.

speaker1: you called me stupid! 
speaker2: interesting. and i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: during the campaign, humma -- you said i was stupid.
speaker3: this humma you speak of no longer exists. he came here in his consolation position as ambassador to gamma z10 to squelch an ideological threat to the system and repented from his wicked ways. he now goes by the holy name tazelo the unceasingly righteous, given to him by his devoted followers.

speaker1: why do i get the feeling he's going to get us all killed? 
speaker2: probably because it's very possible. just don't save me, okay? we're even.

speaker1: the election is ancient history, zaphod, but if memory serves -- you won, proving that good looks and charm win over brilliance and ability to govern. 
speaker1: and incidently -- you are stupid.
speaker2: that's really not the point.
speaker1: you haven't come halfway across the galaxy to settle a campaign grudge. why are you here, zaphod?
speaker1: how very, very... ...improbable.
speaker1: i kept a few souvenirs from my former life. ah, the heady days of space piracy... so young, so foolish..,
speaker1: i'll gladly give you the coordinates to magrathea... he holds up the pink cube revealing a series of
speaker1: ...provided you bring me something in return.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: a gun.
speaker1: a gun?
speaker2: a very special gun. designed by the greatest computer ever invented, now buried in the bowels of magrathea.
speaker1: fine. i'll get your gun. just give me the coordinates.
speaker2: and what will you give me to insure your return?
speaker1: my word as president.
speaker2: ha! i'd be better off with the dung of a bethusian mega donkey.
speaker1: okay, then i'll get you that.
speaker2: i need a hostage, something you hold dear. only what does zaphod beeblebrox treasure?

speaker1: are we sure this is the right way? 
speaker2: yes! i think. i don't know. maybe not.
speaker1: yes, thank you for clearing that up.
speaker3: mr. president!...zaphod, over here!...i want to have your baby!, etc...
speaker2: back to the ship. quickly. they quicken their pace when suddenly...
speaker4: mr. president! we are here for your protection!

speaker1: fire upon the kidnapper! ext. main street - 
speaker2: zarquon! friendly fire! well, if that's what they want-- he pulls out his gun up and fires back.
speaker2: hey! let's do lunch! nice haircut, fella! hey! your kids are the same age as mine-- we should get them together some time!
speaker3: commander! the president is the kidnapper!
speaker1: cease fire!
speaker4: oh i really hate thursdays.
speaker5: zaphod, what do we do?
speaker2: build bridges between the stars!
speaker4: what?
speaker5: i think that was his campaign slogan.
speaker6: alright, follow me.

speaker1: there they are! 
speaker2: back off or i'll kill him, i swear i will! kwaltz -- looks confused.
speaker3: could that actually kill him?
speaker4: mr. president, mr. president!...
speaker5: i totally voted for you!
speaker6: thank you!
speaker3: get her!
speaker7: resistance is useless!
speaker8: tricia!
speaker9: this way!

speaker1: bring her to vogsphere for processing, captain. 
speaker2: they're coming here!? but they've only accomplished half the mission. what about zaphod? he must face justice!!
speaker1: my instructions were clear...
speaker1: "apprehend the kidnapper, rescue the president." we do them in that order. and until the kidnapper is properly processed, she isn't officially apprehended, now is she, mr. vice- president?

speaker1: we have to go! let's go! 
speaker2: right!
speaker2: computer! take us to magrathea!
speaker1: what? no! follow those ships!

speaker1: hey -- my third arm. i had one, didn't i? 
speaker2: we have to go after her!
speaker3: boys, please! not so rough. you're damaging my joystick.
speaker4: who is that?
speaker5: ghastly, isn't it? i was asked to change the personality type, this was the emergency back-up.
speaker3: how, if you want me to take you somewhere, we're going to have to start using our magic words, "please" and "thank you."
speaker2: can you change it back?
speaker5: i can -- but i won't enjoy it.
speaker3: i'm wait-ing...
speaker2: ford?
speaker4: marvin?
speaker5: don't look at me. i'm too depressed.

speaker1: computer?! isn't there some kind of manual override switch thing? 
speaker2: yeeessss...

speaker1: magic words? 
speaker2: show me the override switch or i'll reprogram you with a very large axe.

speaker1: i think i should push this button. 
speaker2: what's that? what happened?!
speaker1: a sign lit up saying "please do not push this button again."

speaker1: wow... 
speaker2: i know. dreadful, isn't it?
speaker3: sorry about the landing. where are we?
speaker4: magrathea!
speaker1: wrong. this is the vogon planet. this is vogsphere.
speaker4: no. it's magrathea! i know it!
speaker1: little something i learned about on an altairian star cruiser. captains use them when they really need to concentrate.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: a thinking cap.

speaker1: this will all end in tears, i just know it. 
speaker2: i checked the guide for ways to rescue a prisoner from vogsphere. it said "don't." i'm assuming your plan is better.

speaker1: well, i sort of had this idea we could... 
speaker1: did anyone see that?
speaker2: see what?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker3: what was it?
speaker1: nothing. just my imagination.
speaker1: alright, stop. everyone stop and watch me. something's happening.
speaker3: okay. i think we...

speaker1: you, too? 
speaker2: yes. what was that?
speaker2: i th...

speaker1: what do you think, zaphod? 
speaker2: i think we should keep going.

speaker1: what the blazes is that? 
speaker2: i have... an idea.
speaker2: okay, don't think of anything. don't have ideas or theories -- nothing.
speaker1: i can't, help it! trillian is in there somewhere and we need an idea to save her.
speaker3: i have an idea. run!
speaker2: ever the politician.
speaker1: okay, so... ...not thinking, not thinking, no ideas coming... ...this is by no means an idea that has any merit, but marvin -- can you give me a hand?

speaker1: alright, where is she? 
speaker2: who? the director of robot arm repair? next building, out the door to the left.
speaker1: actually, we're looking for... ...someone you're detaining, perhaps in some form of incarceration...
speaker2: prisoner release department. six buildings down, out the door, right, left, then two rights. big gray building, can't miss it.

speaker1: name? 
speaker2: trillian.
speaker1: not registered.
speaker2: try tricia mcmillan.
speaker1: tricia yggarstuk mcmillanus of blaard?
speaker2: no. tricia imogene mcmillan of earth.
speaker1: sorry. no record of "earth."

speaker1: right. here it is. "earth. destroyed." do you have a second home planet? 
speaker2: destroyed? no -- that's impossible.
speaker1: says here it was destroyed to make way for a hyperspace expressway. the order was given...three weeks ago.

speaker1: he said the gray building, right? 
speaker2: there. that's it. this way. he raises marvin's arm, pointing the fingers.

speaker1: i don't believe you. this is some sort of trick. zaphod wouldn't blow up a planet, especially mine. 
speaker2: these are the orders.
speaker1: love and kisses...? she hands the paper back, swallowing emotion.
speaker2: now -- according to section 8, sub-section 34 dash a, the punishment for kidnapping is a recitation of the classic poem, "ode to the removal of your left kidney." unless -- said kidnapping is of the president, in which case you are to be fed to the ravenous bugblatter beast of traal. we thank you for your cooperation. a door is opened revealing a room with a large steel box. a huge, angry eye stares out of a tiny barred window. the box shakes like crazy. trillian gulps.
speaker3: next!
speaker4: yes. hi. we're here about getting a prisoner released?
speaker3: prisoner release form?

speaker1: hhgg 3rd revised draft 8/8/03 continued: 
speaker2: right. once i've filled it out can i return to the front of the line, seeing as i've already waited...
speaker3: no. next!
speaker2: can't you do something?! you're president, aren't you?
speaker4: you want me to make a speech, shake a hand? that's what i do -- i think. it's all a little fuzzy.

speaker1: this prisoner is being detained for... kidnapping the president. not eligible for release at this time. you can make an appointment for a later date or take a number and wait. 
speaker2: alright, look. this is the president.

speaker1: okay... 
speaker2: go to the prisoner release lobby, out the door, right, left, 2nd door on the right. back with trillian -- as she braces herself to be eaten by the monster.
speaker3: you're free to go. release her.
speaker4: what!? he's here?! zaphod is here!? let's go get him! but the guard is already escorting trillian out of the room. kwaltz is completing paperwork.
speaker4: commander?

speaker1: you bastard. you signed the order to destroy earth?! 
speaker2: he did?
speaker3: i did?
speaker1: "love and kisses, zaphod?" i saw the form. you didn't even read it, did you?
speaker3: honey, i'm president of the galaxy. i don't get a lot of time for reading.
speaker1: an entire planet, zaphod. my home. gone. all because you thought someone wanted your autograph!
speaker3: they framed me! it's routine for controlling presidents!

speaker1: trillian... 
speaker2: you knew. why didn't you tell me?

speaker1: i tried. he threatened me. 
speaker2: get a backbone, arthur.
speaker1: what about coming here to rescue you?! that was my brilliant idea! a paddle shoots up and slaps him in the face.
speaker3: the president tests my patience. this time, i shall pursue him myself. ready my ship!
speaker4: yes! this is more like it.

speaker1: hi, fellas. hold on to your hats! 
speaker2: eddie! welcome back!

speaker1: okay, that's it...i think. computer? is that...where are we headed again? 
speaker2: magrathea?
speaker3: hang on, fella, and i'll check.

speaker1: look, you're right. you deserved to know and i should've told you. i don't blame you if you're angry. 
speaker1: right. anyway...i'm sorry.
speaker2: guys, it just tickles me pink to tell you we are currently in orbit at an altitude of three hundred miles around the legendary planet of magrathea. goll-ee.
speaker3: take us in.
speaker3: the twin suns of soulianis and rahm...
speaker4: it's rubbish.

speaker1: closed? how can a planet be closed? 
speaker2: for once, aldus, i agree with you. okay, computer. keep going. take us down.
speaker3: happy to!

speaker1: guys, i'm delighted to tell you there are two thermonuclear missiles headed right for us. should i take evasive action? 
speaker2: um...yes, computer. evade!

speaker1: there seems to be something jamming my guidance systems. impact minus 45 seconds. call me eddie if it'll help you relax. 
speaker2: computer! do something!!

speaker1: sure thing, fellah. handing over manual control. good luck! 
speaker2: i can't do this without my other arm!
speaker2: did we lose them?
speaker3: no. they're right behind us.
speaker4: look, why don't i just hit this thing?
speaker2: no! we're here! no telling where it will send us! in the sky--

speaker1: um...where are we? 
speaker2: exactly where we were, i think.
speaker1: and the missiles?
speaker3: have apparently turned into a bowl of petunias and a very surprised looking whale.
speaker4: at an improbability factor of eight million, seven hundred and sixty-seven thousand, one hundred and twenty-eight to one against.
speaker5: i could really use a cup of tea.

speaker1: ahhhh!!!! what's happening? excuse me! who am i? hello? why am i here? what's my purpose in life? what do i mean by who am i? what is this 'i' that i want to know what it is? calm down, get a grip now ... ooh! this is an interesting sensation... 
speaker1: oh! this is an interesting sensation, what is it? it's a sort of... yawning, tingling sensation in ... well i suppose i'd better start finding names for things if i want to make any headway in what for the sake of what i shall call an argument i shall call the world, so let's call it my stomach! good. ooooh! it's getting quite strong now. and hey,what's this whistling roaring sound going past what i'm suddenly going to call my head? perhaps i can call that ... wind! is that a good name? it'll do. perhaps i can give it a better name later when i've found out what it's for! it must be very important because there certainly seems to be an awful lot of it. hey! what's this thing ... this ... let's call it a tail - yeah! tail!
speaker1: hey! i can really thrash it about pretty good, can't i? wow! wow! doesn't seem to achieve much but i'll probably find out what it's for later on. how. have i built up a coherent picture of things yet? no. never mind. hey, this is really exciting, so much to find out about, ao much to look forward to, i'm quite dizzy with anticipation ... or is it the wind? there really is an awful lot of that now, isn't there?
speaker1: and hey! what's this thing coming

speaker1: curiously, the only thing that went through the mind of the bowl of petunias as it fell was "oh no, not again." we hear the petunia vase shattering. 
speaker1: many have speculated that if we knew why the bowl of petunias had thought that we would know a lot more about the nature of the universe than we do now.

speaker1: must be portal doors. 
speaker2: you mean -- the hippies were right?

speaker1: what?! are you out of what's left of your mind? we can't step into that...that. 
speaker2: we gotta pick one, right? if it's not the right one, we come back and pick another. no biggie.
speaker1: yes -- big biggie. what if that's the last door we ever step through? what if it rips us into tiny little atomic particle...thingies.
speaker3: it's the right one. i have a hunch.
speaker1: ford..?
speaker2: he's got good hunches. i say we go.
speaker1: go with the hunch of a narcissist with half a brain who's wearing a ridiculous thinking cap!? are you insane?!
speaker3: hey, i think i resent that.
speaker1: i don't care what you think you think...

speaker1: hey, wait for me! 
speaker2: no. no! nooo!!!
speaker3: i told you this would all end in tears.

speaker1: life is full of paradoxes, isn't it? 
speaker2: don't talk to me about life.
speaker1: here i am, knows how far from home...
speaker2: don't talk to me about
speaker1: ...and this is where i see the most spectacular sunset i've ever laid eyes on. we only had the one sun at home. planet called earth.

speaker1: i know. you keep going on about it. it sounds awful. 
speaker2: oh no, it's beautiful. or at least, it was...
speaker1: did it have oceans?
speaker2: yes. great wide rolling blue oceans.
speaker1: can't bear oceans.
speaker2: so this is how it will all end, then? me, on a dead planet -- with a manically depressed robot.
speaker1: you think you've got problems? what are you supposed to do if you are a manically depressed robot? no, don't bother to answer that, i'm fifty thousand times more intelligent than you and even i don't know the answer. it gives me a headache just trying to think down to your level.
speaker3: excuse me.
speaker2: aah!
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: my name is not important.
speaker3: you must come with me. terrible events are afoot. you must come or you'll be late.
speaker2: late? what for?
speaker3: what is your name, earthman?

speaker1: dent. arthur dent. 
speaker2: late as in "the late dentarthurdent." it's a sort of threat you see. never been much good at them myself, but i'm told they can be terribly effective.
speaker2: your friends are safe. you can trust me.
speaker1: trust a man who won't tell me his name?
speaker2: my name? very well... my name is...slartibartfast.
speaker2: i said it wasn't important.
speaker3: i could calculate your chances of survival -- but you won't like it.
speaker2: i must warn you. we are about to pass through, well, a sort of gateway thing. it may disturb you. it scares the out of me.
speaker1: whaa!
speaker3: funny how just when you think life can't possibly get any worse, it suddenly does.

speaker1: i told you you might find it a bit disturbing. 
speaker2: i have found this whole day a bit disturbing.
speaker1: did you know we built planets?
speaker1: fascinating trade. doing the coastlines was always my favorite. used to have endless fun doing all the little fiddly bits round fjords. but the galactic economy collapsed, and seeing that custom- built planets are something of a luxury commodity... at any rate, there's been a terrible mix up with your planet. you must come with me or it's all going to blow up in our faces.
speaker2: ...and men.
speaker1: mmmm? what?
speaker2: the best laid plans of mice and men.

speaker1: this is it! 
speaker1: deep thought...!
speaker2: shhh. this is a good bit.

speaker1: oh great deep thought...we have traveled long...and far. have you calculated... the ultimate question? of life, the universe and everything? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: no?
speaker2: i've been watching tv.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: i designed another computer to perform that great task.
speaker1: oh, right...i forgot. is it here?
speaker2: not here. another world.
speaker1: it's on another world?
speaker2: it is another world. or was.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: ask your companion.
speaker2: not him.
speaker1: 0kay -- you're sure you don't have the question? or a way to you, you know -- access it or something. i think i've done like a lot to get here...

speaker1: shhhhhh... 
speaker1: the show's back on.
speaker2: great. this is just great. let's go find something else for my entire life to be about. he starts to march off. ford grabs his arm.
speaker3: zaphod. the gun? the one humma sent us for? we have to get it. you gave the guy your head.
speaker2: i know. why did i do that?
speaker3: um...deep thought? we we're told you have a g...
speaker4: ford hands zaphod the gun.
speaker3: here. take it. i don't do guns.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: great! this is a bust, too!

speaker1: hey, man, you must be really frustrated. to go through all you did only to come here and get no answer, which means no fame and money, and you deserve that, man. because you're great -- you're just really, really great. 
speaker2: give me that thing.

speaker1: the galaxy was a bit of a shambles, you see. everyone enjoying themselves being singers and comedians and really creative and interesting things like that. no one doing the boring jobs. 
speaker2: oh, you had that problem, too?
speaker1: in spades. so a species was genetically engineered to do the boring jobs. tax inspectors, traffic wardens, government officials. we were commissioned to build a special planet for them. problem was, some cleverdick made it so any time one of the creatures had an interesting idea it would get a hefty smack around the face.
speaker2: what? you did that? i've been there!
speaker1: then i gather you've met some of the inhabitants.
speaker2: the vogons?
speaker1: relentless blighters.

speaker1: ...and you're right, i shouldn't be so upset 'cause life goes on and i should just go on with it, right? 
speaker2: shoot him again.
speaker1: hitchhiking is good. towels are good, too.
speaker2: brilliant.
speaker3: yeah. i kinda like this.
speaker2: a gun that makes people suddenly see things from your point of view. useful tool for the deranged evangelist trying to convert the masses, eh?
speaker2: we should get back. arthur's waiting.
speaker1: who cares?
speaker2: i do -- especially since we're both somewhat of an endangered species now.

speaker1: of course you're edgy, your planet's been blown up and you've been tooling around the galaxy with the guy who signed the order click. she shoots him again. 
speaker1: you actually wanted to know the question because you always thought there was more to life, and now you're crushed because you find out there really isn't. she's getting angrier and more hurt. click.
speaker1: you've got no home, no family, no one to be with -- and you're stuck with me, another in a long line of men who doesn't appreciate you because he's too busy appreciating himself.
speaker1: give me that thing.
speaker2: won't affect me. i'm already a woman.
speaker1: uh oh -- oh. it's okay, it's only a couple of...

speaker1: so -- it wasn't destroyed? 
speaker2: actually, it was. this is a back-up.
speaker1: so you're saying you ... made the earth?
speaker2: well, not me alone. it was a group effort. i did my part, though. ever heard of a place, i think it's called norway?
speaker2: that was one of mine. won an award you know. lovely crinkly edges. i was sorry to hear about it being blown up. shocking up. the mice were furious.
speaker1: mice? who cares about mice?
speaker2: are you a fan of plate tectonics? arthur looks up. slartibartfast points down.
speaker2: voila! himalayas. good, eh?
speaker2: earthman, you must realize that the planet you lived on was commissioned, paid for, and run by mice. it was destroyed shortly before the completion of the purpose for which it was built. ten minutes later, we would have been free and clear. but we gave them our standard ten million year warranty and they have come here to retrieve this back-up copy. and they've brought you with them.

speaker1: they brought...i'm sorry, when you say "mice" do you mean the little white furry creatures with the cheese fixation? 
speaker2: these creatures you call "mice" are merely the protrusion into our dimension of hyper- intelligent pan-dimensional beings. the whole business with the cheese must've been a front. they were experimenting on you, you see. a vast computer program...
speaker1: ah. i see where you're confused. you see -- we were experimenting on them.
speaker2: oh, i gather they arranged for you to conduct some primitively staged experiments so they could prod your thinking here and there. but you were actually elements in the computer program. they really are very clever hyper- intelligent pan-dimensional beings. ah. they've nearly finished the oceans.
speaker1: so -- you're trying to tell me that mice designed and built deep thought...and deep thought designed the earth...which was a giant supercomputer...that you built...to calculate the ultimate question. only, vogons destroyed it ten minutes before the program was completed?
speaker2: that's bureaucracy for you.
speaker1: actually, this explains a lot. all my life i've had this strange feeling that something was going on in the world, something big, something sinister ...
speaker2: that's just perfectly normal paranoia.

speaker1: i don't know, perhaps i'm old and tired, but i always think that the chances of finding out what's really going on are so absurdly remote that the only thing to do is say hang the sense of it and keep yourself busy. i'd much rather be happy than right any day. 
speaker2: and are you?
speaker1: no. that's where it all falls down of course. here we are, then.
speaker2: is this...?
speaker3: arthur!
speaker2: what -- what are you doing? what happened to you?
speaker4: funniest thing. our hosts attacked us with dismodulating anti phase stun mist then brought us to this amazing meal as a way to make it up to us . try the mutton. it's fantastic.

speaker1: zarking incredible. 
speaker2: hosts attack you --? and then you sit down for -- is that tea?
speaker2: now that's a cup of tea.
speaker3: we're glad you like it, earth creature.
speaker4: after ten million years on earth, and a rather large chunk of that time in england, it would be utterly humiliating if we didn't know how to make a decent pot of tea.
speaker5: arthur, these are our hosts. benjy mouse and franky mouse . they control a large sector of the universe in our dimension . i'm sorry, i thought you were told about the mice...
speaker2: yes. yes, i was. i just wasn't quite prepared for the full reality of it.
speaker4: sit, earthman. eat.
speaker2: in a moment, perhaps. i can't seem to let go of this table. slartibartfast steps forward.

speaker1: pardon the interruption, but i'll just be getting back to work now. 
speaker2: that won't be necessary, slartibartfast.
speaker3: smarty fart blast?
speaker4: eat!
speaker3: right.
speaker2: it looks like we won't be needing the new earth after all, now that we've found the only living native of the planet.
speaker1: but...they've nearly finished the oceans.
speaker5: that will be all, slartibartfast.
speaker6: i'm sorry, when you say "the only living native" -- do you mean me? what about her?
speaker2: we performed some rudimentary dna tests on the ship. she's half-native. her real father was a blahardid, the hyper- intelligent yet carelessly nomadic race native to the planet olbed, who apparently popped in to earth for a one-nighter with a one ms. francis mcmillan.
speaker7: which explains a lot.
speaker6: so -- mostly harmless and me. that's it.
speaker2: we're sorry to have stage managed you so shamelessly, but once we learned you were the only full-blooded earthling in the universe, it was important that we get you here by any means necessary.

speaker1: we've spent a considerable amount of time on your planet trying to find this wretched ultimate question, and the thought of doing it all over again on account of those idiotic vogons sickens me to no end. which is why you're here. 
speaker2: sit, earthling. sit. arthur goes to pull out the chair beside him.

speaker1: this chair is much more -- comfortable. 
speaker1: drink.
speaker2: mmmm. this really is delicious.
speaker1: good. glad you like it. now -- to business.
speaker3: to business!
speaker4: sorry. thought you were proposing a toast.

speaker1: but - and here's the point - we have to have product. which means we still need an ultimate question. 
speaker2: or at least, one that sounds ultimate.
speaker3: yes. got to sound good.
speaker4: an ultimate question that sounds good... from a couple of mice...for a chat show.
speaker1: and as it turns out, the chances are astronomically high that the structure of the question is encoded in your brain. which is why we need it. more tea?
speaker4: i'm sorry -- did you just say you need my brain?
speaker2: yes. to extract the question.
speaker4: you can't have my brain. i'm using it.
speaker1: barely.
speaker2: we can replace it if you think it's important. an electronic brain maybe.
speaker1: a simple one should suffice. who would know the difference?
speaker4: i would!
speaker1: no, you wouldn't. we could program you not to.
speaker4: ford! zaphod! trillian!!

speaker1: don't worry. you won't feel a thing. 
speaker2: wait a minute, just wait a sodding

speaker1: you want the question that goes with the answer "42" how about "what's six times seven?" or "how many vogons does it take to screw in a lightbulb?" or here's one, "how many roads must a man walk down?" 
speaker2: hey, that's not bad.
speaker1: fine. take it. there's plenty more where that came from because my head is filled, with questions, and i can assure you mate, no answer to any of them has ever brought me one iota of happiness. confusion? yes. indecision? loads. but happiness...? he shakes his head.
speaker2: we don't want to be happy. we want to be rich.
speaker3: take his brain.

speaker1: shoot him!! 
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: ohhhh, i think i'm gonna be sick.

speaker1: i must warn you, i'm feeling very depressed. 
speaker2: mr. president! we are here for your protection!
speaker3: thank you!

speaker1: okay -- that thing i said about not saving my life because we're even? scratch that. save at will. 
speaker2: we need that gun.
speaker3: we need tighter gun control!
speaker1: we need his other head. okay -- i'll create a distraction.
speaker4: brilliant plan. i'm certain it will work.

speaker1: duck! 
speaker2: where?

speaker1: shoot me. please zaphod. shoot me. 
speaker2: what am i so off about? i'm great? i'm zarking incredible! everyone loves me! whooo hooo!!! look at me...etc.
speaker3: marvin. you saved our lives.
speaker4: i know. wretched, isn't it?
speaker1: oh man! i love being me!!
speaker5: thank you.

speaker1: i've just been informed by some of the lads that since we're so near completion, we're going to go ahead and finish earth. we can put it back exactly the way it was when you left, you know -- unless there's anything you'd like to change. something you think your planet could do without? 
speaker2: yes. me.
speaker3: let's go somewhere.
speaker2: yes, you name it. i'll go.
speaker4: i'm going to humma's. he has my head...i think. doesn't he? i'm so confused.
speaker5: and i'm hungry. after we get your head let's grab a bite. i know this great restaurant at the end of the universe. as they walk away, we cut to...
speaker1: okay. hold tight.
speaker6: stand-by for commencement of life cycle. all systems checked and cleared. commencing.

