speaker1: that's fantastic. see, if we're talking that kind of volume i can absolutely massage the numbers a little. seriously, you're not gonna be able to keep it on the shelf. 
speaker2: yeah, i'd need to look at some things before i can place an order.
speaker2: how about i give you a call if i decide to--
speaker1: i'll call you. not a problem. no problem at all. even better, i'll swing by. you're on my route. how `bout that? i'll swing by tomorrow.
speaker2: yeah, tomorrow's not good.
speaker1: thursday then. that's better anyway. that'll give you a chance to take a look see on those other stores. we'll put everything on one order and get you a good price break.
speaker1: my advice to you - weed out some of this weaker product to make more space for the corn. like this...
speaker1: apricot fruit leather. whose bright idea was it to stock that? i mean come on, what self respecting kid asks his mom for apricot fruit leather?

speaker1: you are fired. 
speaker2: i so don't care.
speaker2: 

speaker1: gonna lose some inventory. 
speaker2: selfish bastard.
speaker1: trust me, you do not want some lady suing you cuz she found this guy's tooth in her brand new pack.
speaker3: he's over here in fishing too.
speaker1: yep, a real pain in the ass.
speaker4: we're wrapping it up.
speaker2: three grand just to have the wiped up off the floor. can you believe that?
speaker4: hey, can you handle the report tonight? i gotta thing i gotta do.
speaker5: a blonde thing or a brunette thing?

speaker1: the fact that we have sex, real coitus sex, means i'm under no obligation to blow you. 
speaker2: i think you're scared of it. the phone rings.
speaker1: i'm not scared of it.
speaker2: uncomfortable then. you just need to get better acquainted.
speaker1: dad, get the phone.
speaker2: there's absolutely no pressure here.

speaker1: you can touch it if you want. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: you haven't left yet? it norah, my class starts in fifteen minutes.
speaker2: i know, i know.

speaker1: doesn't rose have her thing tonight? 
speaker2: i'm going. i need to borrow your car.
speaker1: here. take some corn.
speaker3: i'm really nuts about your daughter, mr. lorkowski.

speaker1: that's nice. give me a hand with this. 
speaker2: i see they sold that house across the street. i bet they'll come knocking on your door soon.
speaker1: they can knock all they want. wait, wait, whaddaya doing? don't put the lime sticker on the cheddar can. maybe i better just do this myself.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: i'm gonna be so late.
speaker1: i brought fancy corn!
speaker2: how can you eat that stuff?
speaker2: he'll be hyper all night.
speaker2: be good.

speaker1: and no lobsterman stories. he had nightmares all week. just use some common sense. 
speaker2: you're welcome.

speaker1: you want me? 
speaker2: yeah... baby... i want... oh...

speaker1: he's slowly freezing to death and he knows lobsterman is out there... somewhere... coming for him. and he's totally screwed because his tongue is stuck to the mailbox. 
speaker2: why did he lick the mailbox?
speaker1: i don't know. maybe he had ocd and he was obsessed with licking mailboxes.
speaker2: why wasn't he in school?

speaker1: are you gonna let me tell the story? 
speaker1: an then, he hears a horrible sound. snap, snap, drag. snap, snap, drag.
speaker2: maybe he didn't go to school because he had the acd.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: he's trapped. if he doesn't rip the skin off his tongue and make a run for it lobsterman will tear him to pieces with his razor sharp claws.

speaker1: still sore? 
speaker1: i don't know why you did that.
speaker2: you should hear the way he goes on about his lean body mass index drinking that antioxidant, protein powder, enzyme all the time.

speaker1: when was the last time you even played basketball? 
speaker2: he needed to be brought down a peg or two.
speaker1: i'm sure you pulling a groin muscle humbled him.
speaker2: i should introduce him to your sister.
speaker1: norah and a cop? that would happen.
speaker2: we were working a scene today where this guy offs himself in a sporting goods store. so they had this cleaning crew out there, right? you would not believe how much money they charge for that
speaker1: with the dead body there?
speaker2: naw, the body's gone, it's just the blood and stuff.
speaker1: sounds horrible.
speaker2: you ask me it's a racket. you should get into that.

speaker1: you think that's all i can do? 
speaker2: come here.
speaker2: you know that's not what i think.
speaker1: i am gonna be a real estate agent.
speaker2: i know. with business cards.

speaker1: it's about time. i thought your class got over at 9:30. 
speaker2: why isn't he in bed?
speaker1: said he was scared. i think he was fakin' it though.
speaker1: i'm not taking money.
speaker2: it's just ten bucks, take it. dad told me about you getting fired.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: what, were you stoned or something?
speaker2: it was just mr. kim being a head.
speaker1: i thought you liked mr. kim.
speaker2: yeah, before mrs. kim started working there. now he's a full on gym teacher, i swear to
speaker1: when are you going to grow up and start taking responsibility for--
speaker2: oh please, you love it when i up. love it. me up gives you the hugest woody.
speaker1: shut up and take the ten.
speaker2: there was a diner scene earlier. with a waitress.
speaker1: any pie?
speaker2: completely pie free.

speaker1: we're all finished. since it's our first visit we did the blinds and appliances but normally we'll alternate those weekly. nobody mentioned anything to us about laundry so we didn't bother with that but if you want laundry included there is an extra... 
speaker2: rose? rose lorkowski?
speaker2: it's paula datzman... cheerleading squad junior year.
speaker1: paula datzman. wow.
speaker1: how are you?
speaker2: great! i'm paula datzman-mead now.

speaker1: congratulations. 
speaker2: thanks. we're expecting our second in a couple of months.
speaker2: how are you? you look just the same.
speaker1: i'm good. really good!
speaker2: i always envied you so much. head cheerleader... dating the quarterback... so did you and mac end up getting married?
speaker1: nope. no. i'm not sure...i think he ended up marrying heather volkman.
speaker2: wow. well it's so good to see you. let me get your info so i can send you an invite to the baby shower.
speaker2: it'll be like a big reunion. the whole gang from high school will be there.
speaker2: so what are you doing now?
speaker1: i... i've just gotten my real estate license, and so...

speaker1: real estate? 
speaker2: yeah, this... this is just kind of a temporary thing and i'm about to just really phase over into the real estate full time.
speaker1: you're kidding, i'm in real estate!
speaker1: with long and foster. who are you with?
speaker2: me? um. you know, i haven't really decided yet. i might check out long and foster.
speaker1: maybe you'll just be independent.
speaker2: yeah. maybe.
speaker1: what was that about the laundry?

speaker1: it's not just this incident. there have been several episodes over the past year where oscar has... has engaged in disruptive behavior. 
speaker1: there was the incident in gym class.
speaker2: i did pay the damages for that.
speaker1: and the chalk thing.
speaker1: and the time he locked jeremy johnston in the--
speaker2: okay. what did he do this time?
speaker1: now it's... licking.

speaker1: i will not tolerate it. i will not tolerate that behavior in my classroom. 
speaker2: oscar has started licking things in the classroom.
speaker1: first it was the pencil sharpener.

speaker1: we think oscar might benefit from an environment where he could receive more specialized attention. 
speaker2: he licked my leg.

speaker1: where'd you get those? 
speaker2: up there.
speaker1: come here.
speaker1: those were your grandma's. she'd watch birds with those.
speaker1: hey, hey. careful.
speaker1: why don't we put those away.

speaker1: why can't i play with them? 
speaker2: because it's not a toy. it's a scientific instrument.
speaker2: you can play with them when i'm around to supervise.
speaker1: you're around now.
speaker2: i'm tired now.

speaker1: well i'm not putting him in special ed. i'll figure out a way to put him in private school before i do that. 
speaker2: rose, you buy generic cigarettes with couch change. how are you gonna pay for private school?
speaker3: who's going to private school?
speaker1: nobody dad, we're just talking.
speaker3: oscar get suspended again?

speaker1: mac, it's me. 
speaker2: what are you doing calling here?
speaker1: i know, i'm sorry.
speaker2: heather could have easily--
speaker1: i thought she had yoga on saturdays.
speaker2: still, it's not cool.

speaker1: are you even listening? 
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: what do you mean `no thanks'? what else do you have to do? you don't have a job. you don't go to school. what, are you going to live with dad the rest of your life?
speaker2: i don't think you're in any position to feel superior.

speaker1: girls, come on. lets have a nice dinner. 
speaker2: it's just until i get my real estate license.
speaker3: i want to have my birthday at hinkle's.
speaker1: the with hinkle's, i'm taking us to disney land!
speaker2: dad don't.
speaker3: why? i think disney land is a great idea!
speaker1: yeah, what's wrong with disney land? and i think it'd be great if you girls worked together.
speaker4: you are so out of touch.

speaker1: you know mac pretty well? 
speaker1: just swing by the office when you're done and we'll settle up.

speaker1: think they loved each other? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: hey joe, what you got for me? 
speaker2: world's finest corn snack.

speaker1: see where old miller's house sold? 
speaker2: bet you could get a chunk of change for your place. you should cash out now before the market turns sour.
speaker3: i'm not selling my house. no way. i don't care how much those idiots would shell out for it. i got history in that house. you think they understand about history?
speaker2: still... how much commission you get on that popcorn? bet you gotta sell a lot of corn to-
speaker3: hey, the corn's good. really good. not like the pet food but that was a phenomenon.
speaker3: it'll get there. takes time to get to know the market. develop a relationship with the buyers. but it'll get there. who doesn't like popcorn for christ's sake.
speaker2: my brother-in-law's in sales.
speaker2: last year he buys a cow.
speaker3: why would you buy a cow?

speaker1: not a live cow. a whole butchered cow from a rancher. on the hoof they call it. 
speaker2: mm hmm.
speaker1: he sells off the parts of this cow to a bunch of restaurants. direct. made a killing.
speaker2: what'd he do with the brains and intestines?
speaker2: so he cuts out the middle man. not a bad idea.
speaker2: course it'd be smarter to do that with something that didn't have bad parts. like... shrimp.

speaker1: rose is on the phone. norah? 
speaker2: i'm sleeping.

speaker1: she says it's important. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: mac got us another gig.
speaker2: i'm sleeping.
speaker3: i'll pick you up in an hour.
speaker2: no.

speaker1: you suck. 
speaker2: money.
speaker1: you still suck.
speaker2: apparently some crazy bag lady squatter person died and--
speaker1: you didn't get me coffee?
speaker2: i didn't know you wanted any.
speaker1: of course i...

speaker1: how long is this gonna take? 
speaker2: all we have to do is go in and throw everything away. cake.

speaker1: great, now we're gonna have to clean that up too. 
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: there is no way.

speaker1: you're telling me this fancy corn stuff is some kind of health food? 
speaker2: well, it's a candy... and a health food. absolutely. absolutely.
speaker1: yeah, i don't know. we don't have much more shelf space.
speaker2: glycerol monostearate? what is that? i can't even read that.
speaker2: read that.
speaker1: high fructose--
speaker2: no. the first thing listed. the number one ingredient.

speaker1: corn. 
speaker2: exactly. corn. can you think of anything more wholesome? it's all american for christ's sake.
speaker3: do you know if they sell fancy corn here?
speaker3: do you even know what fancy corn is?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: well, do they sell it here?
speaker4: i dunno.
speaker3: i heard that the strawberry fancy corn gives you bionic strength.
speaker4: that's stupid.
speaker3: it's true. some kind of chemical in the strawberry flavoring. if you eat a whole lot of it, it gives you bionic strength.
speaker4: i don't believe you.
speaker3: i don't care if you do or not.

speaker1: i read where these chemicals are getting into the streams, making hermaphrodidic frogs! you think mothers want to expose their kids to that stuff? no way. more and more people are looking for healthy alternatives which is why the demand for this product is so huge right now. 
speaker2: like i said, i already put in all the orders i want for this year.
speaker3: excuse me. do you carry something called fancy corn?

speaker1: it seems wrong though doesn't it... to throw everything away. 
speaker1: i bet this is her.
speaker1: wow, look at this.
speaker1: think it's her daughter?
speaker1: shouldn't we do something? try to find her or something?
speaker2: that's none of your business, norah.

speaker1: hand me that. 
speaker2: what if she doesn't know? wouldn't you want to know if this was mom?
speaker1: mom was never like this. mom would never have been like this.
speaker2: i wonder how she died?
speaker1: norah, we still have a lot of to do here. are you just gonna talk?

speaker1: that was real good. you're a natural. you got the timing, you got the nerve. you're a real sharp cookie, you know that? 
speaker2: no i'm not. i'm stupid.
speaker1: you're not stupid. what are you saying? you're not stupid.

speaker1: yes i am. they want to put me in classes. 
speaker2: don't say that.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's those teachers who are retarded. you're probably just too advanced for those classes. you're bored. do you get bored in class?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: see. you're too smart! and those teachers just don't know how to handle you. you're probably a genius.
speaker1: you think so?
speaker2: i know so!

speaker1: it was so disgusting. i mean the smell, you would not believe. 
speaker1: there were flies everywhere and, really, the smell. i can't even describe it.
speaker2: shhhh.
speaker1: but, after we finished... you woulda never even known. we took all that away... made it right.
speaker2: i can't believe you... i mean, i feel like i got you into this mess.
speaker1: no, i--
speaker2: listen, i'm gonna pay for new real estate classes. okay?

speaker1: we'll get you your license and then get you a little photo in the real estate section. you can drive people around all day and talk about... gosh, what would you talk about? crown molding? 
speaker2: oh yeah, definitely talk about crown molding.
speaker2: property easements, square footage, appliances...
speaker1: you're holding out on me.
speaker2: freak.
speaker1: say it. come on. one time.
speaker2: curb appeal.
speaker2: why'd you pick her?

speaker1: you know it wasn't like that. 
speaker2: how was it like?
speaker1: are you going to do that?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: if this is going to get all heavy--
speaker2: no.

speaker1: winston? 
speaker1: i spoke with you on the phone. i'm rose lorkowski.

speaker1: so, our situation is... 
speaker1: we're doing some postmortem kind of um... specialized cleaning stuff and we had this really difficult...
speaker2: smelly.
speaker1: really smelly job where the lady had died and they didn't find her for a while and it was really...
speaker2: stinky.
speaker1: the odor was really strong.
speaker3: a decomp.
speaker1: yeah, a decomp!
speaker3: general purpose cleaners, extraction cleaners, odor control. we carry both the winzyme and the dr 450. disinfectants, stain removers and shampoos.

speaker1: you hear there're a couple of amateurs poaching jobs? winston shakes his head. 
speaker1: bruce said they took a decomp for five hundred bucks. what do you wanna bet they threw all that right in the dumpster.
speaker2: hey, i have that puzzle. it's a hard one. i think i got lost in the white and gave up.
speaker3: fifty-eight twenty-four.

speaker1: you like cats? 
speaker2: great. you freaked him out.
speaker1: i asked him if he liked cats.
speaker3: bring these back.
speaker2: turns out it's against the law to throw bio hazards in the dumpster. who knew?
speaker2: how perfect was he with the one arm?
speaker1: hmm?
speaker2: the creepy guy. do you think he was born like that?
speaker1: i didn't think he was creepy.
speaker2: dude, he has one arm.
speaker1: they think we're just a couple of hacks.
speaker2: we are a couple of hacks.

speaker1: stop here. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i gotta thing. just drop me off here.
speaker2: i'll drop oscar by around seven.
speaker1: you have class tonight?
speaker2: mortgage lenders and financing.
speaker1: heather's pregnant again. did you know that? he's never going to leave her.
speaker1: you're pathetic.

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: why are you following me?
speaker2: i'm not following you.
speaker1: you are following me!
speaker1: aren't you?
speaker1: oh no.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: this is not happening. 
speaker1: listen, i'm sorry. i thought... i thought you were following me.
speaker2: that's all right.
speaker1: you think i'm crazy.
speaker2: no. no i don't.
speaker1: i'm not crazy.
speaker2: it was a mistake. no big deal.
speaker1: it's not moving.
speaker2: let's press the alarm button.
speaker1: go to the university?
speaker2: me? no.

speaker1: hobby... 
speaker1: there's this gorilla who knows sign language and i've always thought that would have to be the most amazing thing ever. you know? to actually talk to a gorilla.
speaker2: i think i've seen something on-- norah nods.
speaker1: koko.
speaker2: yeah, yeah, with the kitten.
speaker1: kitten died. it wasn't koko's fault. she was heartbroken.
speaker2: kind of weird, don't you think? teaching a gorilla to talk. probably, gorillas aren't supposed to talk.
speaker1: that's what's so cool about it.
speaker2: i'm sorry again about the...
speaker1: no, don't... it's fine.

speaker1: you've got nice veins. 
speaker1: you should give blood.

speaker1: you're back early. 
speaker2: i'm quitting real estate.
speaker1: what are you talking about? you can't quit real estate. you're gonna be great at real estate. you got the whole look and besides, that's where everything's headed. hell, it's what i should have done forty years ago.
speaker2: shut up.
speaker3: want me to make you something happy?
speaker2: yeah. i'd like that.
speaker1: make me something happy too.

speaker1: sunshine cleaning. nice. 
speaker2: thought we'd put a positive spin on things. my son drew the design.

speaker1: that's a nice job you did there. 
speaker2: where's your arm?
speaker3: oscar!
speaker1: that's all right.
speaker3: i was thinking maybe i could set a few out by the register?
speaker1: yeah sure.
speaker1: this is great but you guys should really get out there and market yourselves.
speaker3: so, marketing? like...?
speaker1: funeral homes, property managers... what you really want is to get in with the insurance companies. they can throw you a ton of work.

speaker1: do you guys have your b.b.p. 
speaker2: b.b. who?
speaker1: blood born pathogens. the big money jobs... they'll expect you to be certified. i can register you for the next seminar if you want.

speaker1: did you ask him to come. 
speaker2: not exactly.
speaker3: now sherm's gonna say he's against the wall but don't you believe him.
speaker1: i can handle it.
speaker4: i think you're gonna like this econoline.

speaker1: the girls have started up their own specialized cleaning business. 
speaker2: it's a real growth industry.
speaker3: sounds kinda gory.

speaker1: can be. can be. 
speaker1: we gotta take any contaminated materials to the incinerators. so we'll need lots of space back here.
speaker2: for the stuff.
speaker1: so, how much is this?
speaker3: nineteen ninety-nine.
speaker4: what's the play on that?
speaker3: oh, that's the floor right there. i'm actually taking a loss on this to make room for some new product.
speaker1: well, i could pay cash.
speaker3: cash is good.
speaker4: ask him about the bumper.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: the dented bumper.
speaker1: i noticed the bumper's kind of banged up.

speaker1: character. 
speaker2: we were over at motor mart on lomas earlier. they got a nice looking chevy g series for eighteen.
speaker1: power steering? joe nods.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker4: oh, excellent.
speaker5: do people even use those anymore?
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: it's a cb. you talk into this thing and hold this thing down and it turns your voice into radio waves and sends it into the heavens.
speaker3: heaven?

speaker1: bow-chicka-bow-bow. can i drive? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: try the cb!
speaker2: antenna's probably broke.
speaker1: ice cream hut!

speaker1: how cool to live across from the ice cream hut. 
speaker2: you should rent it. seriously, you're making money now.

speaker1: yeah well, what about dad? 
speaker2: oh please, dad would survive just fine. you should do it.
speaker1: ahh! lick around the base. secure the perimeter. don't you teach this kid anything?
speaker3: it's the gorilla girl.
speaker3: you never came to donate.
speaker1: yeah. lynn looks at rose. an awkward moment passes.
speaker1: my sister.
speaker3: we have snacks you know. juice boxes.
speaker1: had i known about the juice boxes...

speaker1: you still selling that luggage? 
speaker2: no, no. that was a whole big mess.
speaker1: crappy zippers. wasn't that it?
speaker2: yeah, that's been a while now. dropped the luggage around the time your other lot when out of business.
speaker1: i could maybe drop it to nineteen even.
speaker1: and toss in some wiper fluid.

speaker1: i just wanted to give her the pictures. 
speaker2: you took the pictures? why would you do that? we could get in a lot of trouble for that.
speaker1: relax, i didn't give them to her.

speaker1: it's just three blocks away. 
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: it's not like i'm never gonna see you. 
speaker2: hey, i think you should have done this a long time ago.

speaker1: food's better at the bar. carl swanson, above and beyond. 
speaker2: rose- rose lorkowski. nice to meet you.
speaker1: i hear you're my new competition.

speaker1: we're hardly competition for you. 
speaker2: i'm glad to see you're doing a little homework. a lot of people, you know, they think they can just jump in to this, make lots of money. but, they don't know what they're doing. no idea. they're not professional and that makes us all look bad.
speaker1: well, we're not like that. i just have to complete this seminar and we're certified.
speaker2: you're not certified?
speaker1: not yet. probably by the end of the month.
speaker2: you had a...
speaker1: i think it's starting.
speaker2: sure i can't buy you a drink?
speaker2: if you spray the enzyme at that point it'll just turn back to liquid which is a pain in the ass. the key is to bag it when it's kind of jell-o-ee.

speaker1: that makes total sense. why didn't i think of that? 
speaker2: you just figure all this out as you go. experience.
speaker1: it's not how i thought it'd be. i thought it'd be gross.
speaker1: sometimes it's gross. the maggots are gross. the maggots kind of freak me.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: the sound. the munching sound.
speaker2: and it's so hard to kill the little
speaker1: tell me about it. you pour industrial bleach right on `em...nothing.
speaker2: just roll their eyes and call you a pussy.

speaker1: what's a bastard? 
speaker1: jeremy said i was a bastard. what does that mean?
speaker2: it just means your mom wasn't married when she had you. it's no big deal. in a couple of years you're gonna find it's a free pass to cool. you'll probably start a band called son. use it to impress the chicks. trust me, the whole thing... it's working for you. oscar looks to rose and then back to norah.
speaker3: hello, sunshine cleaning... well, i'm glad you liked the fancy corn....okay, yeah, yeah.
speaker3: okay... 2327 grove avenue. got it... sure. yeah. thank you.

speaker1: what was that? 
speaker2: a suicide!

speaker1: oh, man. 
speaker1: ok. stay in the van. you want a soda or anything?
speaker1: we won't be long.
speaker1: mrs. davis?
speaker1: we're the cleaning service.
speaker2: yes, yes. i... i wanted to give you the keys.
speaker2: in the sunroom. that's where my husband... i had bridge and...

speaker1: do you need me to show you? 
speaker2: no, no. i think we can find it.
speaker1: oh. okay. that's good then.
speaker1: my son-in-law's coming to take me to lunch at the howard johnson's. they have such nice rolls there.
speaker2: would you like to sit for a moment, mrs. davis?
speaker1: yes dear, i think i would.

speaker1: that lady seemed really sad. 
speaker2: her husband died.
speaker1: so he's in heaven?
speaker1: maybe we could let her use our cb and she could talk to him.
speaker1: maybe he would hear her.
speaker2: maybe.

speaker1: i won a million dollars! 
speaker2: let me see that.
speaker2: you gotta get two hydrants with a matching amount. see? none of your fire hydrants match.
speaker2: and three zeros is a thousand dollars. you woulda won a thousand dollars but it doesn't match anything.
speaker1: what happens if it doesn't match anything?
speaker2: you toss it and try the next one.
speaker1: i think i won five hundred dollars.
speaker1: i'm gonna buy a trampoline and a karaoke player and some chocolate honey dipped donuts.

speaker1: whoa now. hold up there kiddo. that's not your money. that's my money. 
speaker2: i scratched it.
speaker1: yes you did. you scratched the ticket that i bought.

speaker1: and we're not going to spend the money. we're going to invest the money. 
speaker1: see, that's the difference between a regular person and somebody with business acumen. that's a good word for you to know. a-cu-men. means smarts.
speaker1: bobby! joe lorkowski here. i told you i'd call. yeah well, i got the money and we're in. but you gotta throw in twenty bags of ice.

speaker1: we're gonna make the money grow because that's the smart way. it's capital and you don't spend that. you invest it. that way you can get the sp250 and have money left over. 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: the binoculars that grampa's gonna get me for my birthday.

speaker1: oh honey, come here. 
speaker1: sometimes your grampa promises things that he really wants to happen.
speaker2: no, he's really gonna get `em. he's got a plan.
speaker1: okay. if you say so.

speaker1: you made it seem so fun. 
speaker2: oh it is fun. would you like a refreshment?
speaker2: no?
speaker2: can you squeeze that for me?
speaker2: that's good. one more time.

speaker1: oh my is that the needle? it's a cocktail straw. 
speaker2: trust me, i'm very good at this. squeeze again.
speaker2: wasn't that fun?
speaker1: you might have oversold it.
speaker2: kind of twirl the ball around in your hand. good. it doesn't hurt, does it?
speaker1: feels hot.
speaker2: that's a good sign.
speaker1: my friend's having a thing tonight.
speaker1: never mind.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing it's...

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you wouldn't like it.
speaker1: i might like it.

speaker1: i knew you wouldn't have any fun here. 
speaker2: i am having fun.
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: lambs breath.
speaker2: yeah, no thanks.
speaker1: straight edge?
speaker2: just kind of superstitious.

speaker1: she's mormon. 
speaker2: i'm not mormon. i just... you're gonna think it's weird.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: sometimes i think that when you get high or drink or alter your consciousness like that--
speaker1: you don't drink?
speaker2: i think it weakens you psychically... like it creates these cracks and then bad things can seep in and maybe never go away.
speaker1: all right, you're kind of freakin me out.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: you should just tell people you're mormon.
speaker2: i think your boyfriend is winning.
speaker1: yes. yes, he is.

speaker1: breathe. 
speaker2: i need more beer.
speaker2: um. can i get you anything?
speaker1: i'm good.

speaker1: tragedy today when an out of control driver crashed his car into a south side quicky lube killing one employee. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: shh.

speaker1: the driver of the automobile, apparently suffered a heart attack at the wheel and is currently in critical condition. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: unbelievable.
speaker2: yeah, i'm watching it now.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey. randy starts down the steps feeling dejected.
speaker2: you like rabbits?

speaker1: nut job goes through the window there. you guys are bbp certified, right? 
speaker2: legally, it's not really necessary.
speaker3: we are.
speaker2: we're in the process.
speaker3: you went to that thing.
speaker2: we adhere to all the proper procedures when dealing with a potentially hazardous situation. we are very professional.
speaker3: wait. i thought you went to that thing.
speaker2: are you guys all finished?
speaker1: it's all yours.
speaker2: why don't you grab the wet-vac and i'll start bagging the loose stuff.

speaker1: i thought you went to the thing. 
speaker2: i did. i mean, i went to part of it. most of it.
speaker1: what do you mean you went to part of it? it was a one day thing.
speaker2: i got side tracked.
speaker1: side tracked?
speaker2: that above and beyond guy was there. carl. we got talking shop and--
speaker1: oh my you humped carl!
speaker2: i'm already registered for the next one.
speaker1: that's disgusting.

speaker1: two dollars? 
speaker2: hey, how'd you come up with that?
speaker1: math.

speaker1: i'm sorry, i don't mean to bother you. i just wanted to let you know that we're all finished up and-- the woman glares at rose. 
speaker2: oh, you want to get paid.
speaker1: we can come back later if that's better.
speaker2: i can't believe i have to deal with this now. my son just died for christ's sake.
speaker1: i'm so sorry for your loss.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: for what you did. thank you.
speaker1: you want a coke?
speaker3: sure.

speaker1: dammit. 
speaker2: you think i don't know?
speaker2: you may have been hot in high school but what are you now? nothing. a waste of space.

speaker1: it's alright. everything's okay. 
speaker1: come on, come on, come on, come on.
speaker1: make like you're crying.
speaker2: what did you guys do today?
speaker3: nothing.
speaker2: how's it without norah here?
speaker1: weird.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i know it was stupid. 
speaker2: on so many levels.

speaker1: i'm really sorry. i swear it won't happen again. it's just... you weren't around and... 
speaker2: listen, randy i think we should stop hanging out.
speaker1: you're breaking up with me over the rabbit lady?
speaker1: i don't know, the way you act, i didn't even think that you'd care that much.
speaker2: yeah, i don't. i should, but i don't. and you're a really great guy. but...i don't care if you have with the rabbit lady... and i mean, it seems like i should care about that.

speaker1:  
speaker2: rose.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: can we talk a minute?
speaker1: oscar's asleep.

speaker1: it was great seeing you last night. you looked so professional and confident. your own business... 
speaker2: how's the baby?
speaker1: i just wanted to congratulate you on the business. seems like things are really going great for you.
speaker2: they are. if we keep going at this rate i can hire a couple of employees soon, put a little more in marketing, give those clean sweep guys a run for their money.
speaker2: i'm a business woman.
speaker1: you're a business woman.

speaker1: are the bodies there? 
speaker2: no. the person is gone. it's weird `cuz we're connected to them in this strangely intimate way... but we never actually meet them. it's just kind of weird.
speaker2: i have seen a dead body once though.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: my mom.

speaker1: your mom? 
speaker2: a bunch of hollywood people were filming down in old town. they thought my mom was so beautiful and so talented that they gave her a speaking part. you want to hear it?
speaker2: `i recommend the pecan pie.' norah looks back at lynn for applause.
speaker1: i recommend the pecan pie?
speaker2: that was her line. it was on tv and everything.
speaker1: that's pretty cool.
speaker2: me and rose, we didn't actually see it but rose says mom talked about it all the time. i don't remember.
speaker2: i don't remember her much at all. i have this box of her stuff though, little things she touched. when it seems like she never even really existed... it's proof.
speaker2: all right. this is where we climb.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: up to that girder. 
speaker2: i'm not climbing up there.
speaker1: best place to be when it comes.
speaker2: uh-uh.
speaker1: you're gonna miss the best part.
speaker2: i accept that.
speaker1: it's like... it's like this big off up in your face just screaming at you. so close you can smell the metal on his breath.
speaker2: sounds great.
speaker1: it is. i'm telling you.
speaker1: i didn't mean to you out with the whole mom stuff. i just thought you would... i don't know, i guess i thought...
speaker2: what?

speaker1: oh, 
speaker1: you
speaker2: sneaky

speaker1: that was really stupid. 
speaker2: i think i broke my hand.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: no. but it hurts like a mother.

speaker1: how's the hand? 
speaker2: ow!
speaker1: sorry.
speaker1: better?
speaker1: is that?
speaker1: are those...

speaker1: how do you have my school pictures? 
speaker2: i just... i found them. i was gonna tell you.
speaker1: where would you find old pictures of me?
speaker2: at work.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we did this job a while back. this woman...
speaker1: my mom.
speaker1: my mom is dead.
speaker2: i wanted to tell you... that first day. that's why i--
speaker1: you knew this whole time?
speaker2: i think... you know, i think there's a reason that i found them. the pictures. because that lead me to you, right?

speaker1: you would understand? 
speaker2: wait. please. don't...i--
speaker1: you're sick, you know that? there's something wrong with you.

speaker1: the blue or the flowery? 
speaker2: the blue.
speaker1: good call.

speaker1: sunshine cleaning. 
speaker2: hello, this is henry schmidt at state farm.
speaker1: state farm? state farm! yes. hello.
speaker2: i spoke with you about a month ago.
speaker1: yes! hi. what can i do for you?
speaker2: we've got a house we need to turn around and our regular guys are busy in santa fe today. thought i'd give you all a call. rose knocks over a bottle of nail polish remover as she grabs a pen and writes down the info.
speaker1: great. no problem.
speaker1: 
speaker1: honey, call grampa.
speaker3: it's busy.

speaker1: so tell him we can't do it. 
speaker2: it's an insurance company. they could throw us a ton of work. this is our in.
speaker1: so, don't go to the baby shower. it's not like you ever even liked paula.
speaker2: i promise i'll come straight after the shower and help finish up.

speaker1: pee-ew. 
speaker2: stay out here.
speaker1: why do i--

speaker1: dad! 
speaker1: dad! daddy!

speaker1: i'm busy here. 
speaker2: it dad, you scared me.
speaker1: those snotty restaurant wouldn't buy my shrimp. some about health codes or whatever. i don't believe that for a second.
speaker2: dad what were you-- he holds up a finger.

speaker1: don't. don't start with me. completely shut me out. they got their own little cartel. little restaurant mafia. i bet they screwed with my car too. i wouldn't put it past `em. bunch of shady mother 
speaker2: i need you to watch oscar.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: what do you mean you can't?
speaker1: i can't watch oscar today rose.
speaker2: i'm in a real bind here.
speaker1: yeah, well it's hard, isn't it?

speaker1: i was wondering if oscar could hang out here for a little while. 
speaker1: i've got this baby shower to go to and norah's working a job and my dad's incapacitated... do you mind?
speaker2: i guess not.
speaker1: you're a lifesaver.
speaker2: you did your hair different.
speaker1: you like it?
speaker1: all right. be good. i'll pick him up in a few hours when i'm done.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: this is a world war two mitchell cannon nose bomber.
speaker1: you make all these models?

speaker1: dab the end of that in the glue. just a little bit. 
speaker2: what's that piece for?
speaker1: it's a strut.
speaker2: what's a strut?
speaker1: supports the wing.
speaker2: seems like it'd be hard to build models with just one hand.
speaker1: it is.

speaker1: so rose, what are you doing? are you still cleaning houses? 
speaker2: rose has gone into real estate.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: actually, i own my own business.
speaker1: a real estate business?
speaker3: no. it's a biohazard removal and crime scene clean up service. it's a growth niche industry right now â­ highly technical and competitive.
speaker1: what does that mean â­ biohazard removal whatever?
speaker3: a lot of times, when somebody dies, it can be kind of, you know, messy. so, we go in and clean up all that left over mess. make sure that the area is clean and sanitary.
speaker3: people just don't understand the health and safety risks involved in disposing of biological material like blood and body fluids.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: course, we have a whole arsenal of disinfectants and um... professional techniques. like i said, it's a highly technical and professional operation with a whole complicated, you know... methodology behind it.
speaker2: real growth industry.
speaker3: i can't imagine. you like doing it?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: i do. we come into the lives of people who have just experienced something so sad and profound. they've lost somebody. the circumstances are different but that's the same.
speaker2: and we help them. in this one small way... we help.
speaker3: sounds horrible to me.
speaker1: i believe i'd vomit.

speaker1: oh my you're the cutest thing ever. did you get left behind? 
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker1: no, no, no.

speaker1: okay, ladies. for our first game we've taken five different kinds of candy bars and melted them in these diapers. 
speaker2: oh i love this game.
speaker1: you all can--
speaker3: sorry.
speaker1: you can look, smell and taste. the first to identify all five correctly wins!

speaker1: you know what? i... uh...actually, there's somewhere i need to be. 
speaker2: oh nooo! you can't leave now. we're just starting the games.
speaker1: yeah. well... yeah.

speaker1: it was an accident. 
speaker2: oh my what have you done?
speaker1: it was an accident.

speaker1: how does this happen? huh? how do you burn down a house, norah? christ! 
speaker2: rose, calm down. rose throws her keys at norah.
speaker2: well, if you had been here to help me but no, you're off desperately trying to impress stupid high school people who don't even matter. prove to your old cheerleading squad that you're not this huge loser. if you had been here doing your job it wouldn't have happened. so don't try to put all this on me.
speaker1: this is on you. you did this. you set a house on fire! you.
speaker2: oh, go ahead and play the martyr.
speaker1: i can't believe i was so stupid to think that you could handle a little bit of responsibility.
speaker2: i am so sick of all your holier than thou why don't you take a look at you're own life, huh? you're a real inspiration.
speaker1: well maybe if i didn't have to take care of everybody in this family.

speaker1: you. i'm done being your excuse. 
speaker2: oh that's great. turn everything to and then walk away.

speaker1: long baby shower. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i... everything's horrible.
speaker1: oscar's asleep in back.
speaker2: norah's ruined everything. she burnt down a house. a client's house.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: you know?
speaker1: carl told me.
speaker2: how does he...?
speaker2: that's just great. we burnt down a client's house. how do you get around that?
speaker1: insurance?
speaker2: i figured we'd wait and get the better rate once i got certified.
speaker1: didn't you go to that?
speaker2: there's not a lot i'm really good at, you know.

speaker1: really. i'm good at getting guys to want me. not date or marry me. but want me. i've always been good at that. 
speaker1: and cheering. i was pretty good at that too.
speaker2: cheering is good.
speaker1: yeah. not as marketable as you'd think.

speaker1: rose? 
speaker1: hey beautiful.
speaker1: i was starting to think you were on a date or something.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: long day.
speaker1: can i come in?
speaker2: it's not really a good time.
speaker1: i got you something.
speaker1: it's for your business cards. you put `em in there and, i don't know... impress people.
speaker2: it's beautiful.

speaker1: you don't like it? 
speaker2: no, i like it very much.
speaker2: it's just this thing we're doing.
speaker1: come on, let's not do that.
speaker2: i don't want this anymore.
speaker1: so that's it?
speaker1: that's it then.

speaker1: is this your first time donating? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: can i get your name? 
speaker2: i need to talk to lynn.
speaker3: she can't donate. you can't donate.
speaker3: forty-eight days. it's not been forty-eight days.
speaker2: why are you acting like this? why haven't you called me back.
speaker3: listen, i just, don't think you're the kind of person i need to be hanging out with right now.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker3: do i really need to spell it out?
speaker2: here.

speaker1: i'm sure i can turn this stuff around pretty quick. 
speaker2: thanks. for everything.
speaker3: are you coming to my party?
speaker2: we're going to hinkle's saturday for oscar's birthday. it'd be great if you came.
speaker1: sounds like a blast.

speaker1: these here are the real deal. i want you to have them. 
speaker2: dad, you promised him those others. from the store. he's been talking about it for weeks.
speaker1: no rose, i want to him to have these.
speaker3: wow, is that an old zeiss?
speaker3: porro prism?
speaker1: eight by thirty jenoptems. no marks on the objectives. perfect bloom.
speaker3: you got yourself some classic binoculars there.
speaker4: sorry i'm late.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: where are you going?

speaker1: i read somewhere that beauty is really all about symmetry. like having eyes the same size and all that. so, you know, when you factor that in he's like, hot. 
speaker1: listen, i know i up, okay? like really huge and i know that and i'm sorry, okay?
speaker2: that drives me crazy! that whole `oh, i'm sorry, i'm just a big up' routine. like that's a legitimate excuse.
speaker1: i really am sorry. but it really isn't all my fault, rose.
speaker2: i think there's something wrong with you. the way your brain works. i mean, what the hell? it's like you can't be trusted with anything. you just screw around all the time like it's all a big game. it wasn't a game, norah. we're not all just here for your amusement. you should have been paying attention. you should have been focused on the job.

speaker1: i know. i should have been there. 
speaker2: what are you going to do now?
speaker1: i got some ideas. i was thinking maybe we could-- norah shakes her head.
speaker2: i've got my own ideas.
speaker1: so, you really think he's hot?
speaker2: winston? no.

speaker1: you gonna open my present? 
speaker2: cool.
speaker1: the guy said that if you're careful they'll last a whole month. and these aren't stupid kiddie unicorns and they're all based on classic biker designs.

speaker1: cool. 
speaker2: what's that say?
speaker3: li'l bastard.
speaker2: cool.
speaker3: i'm thinking of taking a road trip.
speaker4: where?
speaker2: how?
speaker3: haven't worked it all out yet. i was thinking i could maybe take the van.
speaker2: i'm selling the van.
speaker4: don't sell the van.
speaker2: have to. can't afford the payment.
speaker4: no, listen... just don't sell the van.

speaker1: just don't sell the van yet. okay? 
speaker1: rose tells me you make models.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: any money in that?
speaker2: not really.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: turn your tv on. channel sixty- five.

speaker1: hello? mom? 
speaker1: oscar turned eight today. we had this whole big thing at hinkle's. winston came. after dinner oscar and norah got a high score on centipede and put in as their initials and got in trouble by the manager. i don't know if you're in heaven or what. but you're not here and that's too bad for you `cuz you've missed out. you've missed out on some really great stuff.

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: there's something i wanted to talk to you about.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: well, i was wondering if i could move in with you and oscar.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: just temporarily - until i find a place.
speaker1: you lost the house. oh my you lost the house. dad how could you lose the house?
speaker2: i didn't lose the house. i sold the house. there's this business opportunity--
speaker1: not shrimp i hope.

speaker1: it's not just some get rich quick scheme. and i got a partner who has experience. i'd learn from her. 
speaker2: nineteen sixty-three?
speaker1: don't make a big deal out of it.
speaker2: dad.
speaker1: it's a business lie, not a real lie.
speaker2: i can live with that.
speaker1: and you'd be the boss.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: i have a tooth ache. 
speaker2: me too.

