speaker1: monitoring. all the usual. 
speaker2: how did your team do at the weekend?
speaker1: yeah, alright. we won.
speaker2: great. wanker.
speaker2: sam. morning.
speaker2: well, pop pickers....what shall we start with today? wonky ron....or simon foster, on the pm programme for the bbc.
speaker3: well, i'm joined by simon foster, the minister for international development.
speaker2: here we go.
speaker3: you've been in the job now for eighteen months, do you think you're making headway?
speaker4: ah. yes i do. you'd expect me to say that i suppose.

speaker1: mark, are you co-ordinating that millenium goals press release? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well co-ordinate it better.
speaker2: yes, can do.
speaker1: is that the minister? nail - has anyone got a nail file?

speaker1: have we heard anything from malcolm about last night's interview? 
speaker2: no not yet.
speaker1: perhaps he didn't hear it.
speaker2: or maybe he's dead.
speaker1: he might be dead. he might have had that massive stroke we've all been waiting for. it's in the post.

speaker1: diarrhoea? i mean, this is the minister for international development. he should be talking about food parcels, not arse-spraying mayhem. 
speaker2: and so if we can tackle the easy things, like diarrhoea, then we can.....
speaker1: oh yes, say it again. very good. what is this, the forecast?
speaker2: ...and then hopefully that will strike another blow in the war against preventable diseases.
speaker3: you mentioned the word `war"
speaker1: steady eddie...
speaker2: against preventable diseases, yes....
speaker3: yes. all the evidence now points to a us military intervention in the middle east. is that you view?
speaker2: well....personally, i think that war is unforseeable.
speaker1: sam! sam!
speaker3: unforseeable?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: no you do not think that! sam! i'm going to have to go over to international development, and pull simon foster's hair. page 3

speaker1: he'll want you to row back from the `unforeseeable' thing on question time tonight. 
speaker2: on question time, you know the funny question they always ask at the end?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i think we should prep that now. i'd like to shine on the funny question, cos i'm a funny guy. with a light touch.
speaker1: there's this guy, he's a property tycoon. he's bought a south sea island. it might be something like that, you know. "if you had to spend the rest of your life on a desert island, who would it be with?"
speaker2: ah. well, i can't say my wife, because i haven't got one, and i can't say my girlfriend, because i haven't got one of those either.
speaker1: and don't say mandela, that's...
speaker2: no. boring. and a bloke.
speaker1: or keira knightley.
speaker2: well, that's a good idea.

speaker1: pervert. sex. minister. 
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: people don't want to know.
speaker3: did you take the washing out of the machine?
speaker4: no.
speaker3: what do you mean, no?
speaker4: no. i didn't take the washing out of the machine.
speaker3: it's going to go really stale.
speaker4: it'll be fine.
speaker3: it's not fine. by the time...
speaker4: it is fine. i'll wear stale pants.
speaker3: i don't want to go out with some who wears stale pants.
speaker4: well, there we go. i could go commando, but i don't think that's acceptable in government.
speaker3: please. so: got everything you need for your first day in international development?

speaker1: oh yes. it's all here. my massive intellect. and an apple for simon foster. 
speaker2: simon fluster.
speaker1: don't say that, i'm rebranding him.
speaker2: well he was on the radio last night. he sounded like a chicken with a wasp up its arse.
speaker1: well i'm going to sort that out. after a week i'll have him sounding like a chicken without a wasp up its arse.
speaker2: have a good day, good luck honey.
speaker1: have a good day at the foreign office.
speaker2: i'll give you a call later. keep your phone on. bye.
speaker1: yeah, alright.
speaker2: oh and be careful - cars!

speaker1: i'm just checking whether you put last night's lasagne in the fridge. 
speaker2: croissants!
speaker3: no. you're fine to go ahead and print that. it's lies, you'd be lying, but go ahead. he did not say unforeseeable. no he did not. oh, just before you go -- when i tell your wife about you and angela heaney at the blackpool conference...would email be better? or a phone call? or, hey i know, i'll write it on a cake, "your hack husband betrayed you on the 4th of october, and congratulations on the new baby" in those little silver balls. yeah, maybe best to spike it? okay. fuckity-bye!
speaker4: no, it's fine, it's in the fridge. i put some clingfilm over it.
speaker1: why did you put clingfilm on it?
speaker4: to keep it fresh.
speaker1: it's in the fridge, that'll keep it fresh.
speaker4: no, but it still might dry out.
speaker3: yeah, malcolm tucker. can i speak to james lewis at the pm programme please?

speaker1: still slightly warm. that's how i like my women as well. 
speaker2: clingfilm is carcinogenic, toby.
speaker3: no it isn't. that's a myth. clingfilm is perfectly safe.
speaker4: no, i'll hold,. what's he waiting for? a sex-change?
speaker3: they wouldn't sell clingfilm if it gave you cancer. clingfilm doesn't give you cancer. and lasagne doesn't give you syphillis.
speaker4: james! right --simon foster? yeah, very funny, the diarrhoea of a nobody. listen, we get an easy ride on tom tomorrow, ok? no, you relax. tell you what, i'll come over a lock you in a flotation tank and pump it full of sewage until you drown. get me brian!

speaker1: paris hilton? 
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: lily allen.
speaker2: no. no women.

speaker1: the olson twins? 
speaker2: hi. right. i see.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: malcolm's coming to see you.
speaker1: he's still alive. when's he due?
speaker3: now. and don't say you weren't prepared because i rang ahead. give us a minute, will you love?
speaker3: in the words of the late, great nat king cole, `unforeseeable, that's what you are..'
speaker2: so you're...whatever your name is, dan, the new advisor? daniel.
speaker4: toby.
speaker2: right. just most of you lot tend to be called dan, or danny, so it's always worth a punt. ok, hello. as you know, i'm judy molloy, civil service director of communications for international development. they shake hands.

speaker1: is this a normal morning, or...? 
speaker2: okay, i've got a meeting in two minutes. and the minister was rubbish in last night's interview.
speaker1: rubbish?
speaker2: it's a technical term. it means he went on the radio and everyone could hear that he was rubbish.

speaker1: come on, malcolm, he asked me for a personal opinion. 
speaker2: oh why didn't you say? i mean, he asked you. of course, that explains it. yeah. say, if he'd asked you to black up, or give him your pin number, or shot yourself, would you have done that as well.
speaker1: i would have blacked up. it was the radio and no-one would have known.
speaker2: yeah. very good.
speaker1: but war is -- basically unforeseeable isn't it?
speaker2: that is not our line, alright? walk the line. look.
speaker2: page 10

speaker1: we've got karen clark over from washington, okay? we've got the us national security advisor's main guy coming. yeah? we've got enough pentagon goons here for a coup d'etat. this is not the time to send out a signal like this in some personal sodcast. 
speaker2: minister, this is toby.
speaker3: not the time love. off. judy smiles at malcolm, and doesn't off.
speaker4: hey toby. glad you could join us. bit of an odd morning, but 'welcome to the madhouse!'i apologise for malcolm.
speaker3: don't apologise for me. you should apologise for yourself. did i not just tell you to off and yet you're still here?
speaker2: that's correct.
speaker3: hey, foetus boy. lesson one: if i tell you to off what do you do?
speaker5: off?
speaker3: you'll go far.now off.
speaker5: right.
speaker4: we were thinking, weren't we judy, that i could row back on question time tonight.
speaker3: no, you're not going on question time tonight. you've been disinvited.

speaker1: why? we've been prepping question time. 
speaker2: because they ask questions on question time. and you're no good at questions. if it was fumbling, off- message answer time, you'd be our main guy. but it's not.
speaker3: sorry, why wasn't i told about this?
speaker2: why should i tell you about this?
speaker3: because it's a scheduled media appearance by this department's secretary of state and it therefore falls within my purview...
speaker2: your purview? where do you think you are sweetheart, in some regency costume drama? this is a government department, not a jane austen novel. allow me to pop a jaunty little bonnet on your purview and ram it up the with a lubricated horse cock.
speaker3: malcolm, your swearing doesn't impress me. my husband works for tower hamlets and believe me, those kids make you sound like angela lansbury.
speaker2: she's married? the poor bastard.
speaker1: but...okay, judy's lubricated horse aside for one moment.... are you saying that i'm now not allowed to make any media appearances?
speaker2: no, not until we can trust you to keep to the line.
speaker1: but i was going to keep to the line: "i don't actually think war is unforeseeable." page 12

speaker1: what is it then? 
speaker2: is it...i don't know? foreseeable? no.
speaker1: no. not foreseeable. that's declaring war. do you want to declare war?
speaker2: i'm a cabinet minister. i didn't get here by up every media appearance i ever had.
speaker1: write this down. it's neither forseeable nor undorseeable.
speaker2: right. so not inevitable, but not...evitable.
speaker1: okay, you need to work on this line. that includes you, jane austen with the strap-on. oh, and put the sniff out there that the next time the bbc ambushes a minister with a war question we'll drop a bomb on them.
speaker3: i can't do that. that's political, that's not in my...
speaker1: purview, marie antoinette? weel listen, darling, why don't you scuttle off back to cranford and play around with your tea and cake and horse cocks. let them eat cock! you, ron weasley -- you do it. malcolm heads out.

speaker1: you needn't worry about the canadians. they're just happy to be there. yes, well, they always look surprised when they're invited. 
speaker2: listen, shall i just give toby a quick call about the simon foster thing?

speaker1: hiya. you do know this is the third time you've rung? are you on a new tariff? 
speaker2: so? how's it going? you found the bogs yet?
speaker1: all a bit manic. it was never like this at agriculture. people tend not to swear so much about wheat. apart from farmers.
speaker2: can you turn that down a bit? look, i've got a leg up for you. i think we could get simon into the big meeting with karen clark?
speaker1: right - karen clark from...is that the woman who went round britain in a coracle for leukemia?

speaker1: karen clark, us assistant secretary of state? 
speaker2: oh right. karen clark. wow. thanks.
speaker1: hang on, michael wants to say something.
speaker3: meat.
speaker1: meat.
speaker3: meat! simon's only going to be meat in the room. don't get his hopes up.
speaker1: yeah, so you know -- simon, between us, he's just going to be meat in the room.
speaker2: meat?
speaker1: yeah. the americans don't feel they're getting a real meeting unless there's thirty of you on each side. so simon is...you know those polystyrene peanut things they use to pack electrical goods? sort of one of those. but you might not want to tell him that. i ought to go. i love you.
speaker2: likewise. affirmative on that.
speaker4: so, quick tour.
speaker2: um, i do just need to...

speaker1: over there...that's mike's patch. leave mike to it. he knows what he's doing. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: exactly. he's an he organised 3,000 tents and sanitation packs for rwanda.
speaker3: right...is that not...?
speaker1: they needed them in luanda. angola. it's been in the news. and that's the end of the tour. i've got to go.
speaker3: look, i understand your hostility to new wood coming in..
speaker1: there's a lot of really important people you need to know about, but i haven't got time.
speaker3: hey, boss.
speaker4: toby, hi. sorry about earlier -- malcolm. he's a bit of an...alpha male, isn't he?
speaker3: look, i've managed to get you into the big meeting at the foreign office this afternoon.
speaker4: the karen clark meeting? really?
speaker3: i did it through sheer hard work. judy walks past. simon calls out. page 16

speaker1: hey judy. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: tobes here has got me into the big karen clark meeting.
speaker2: wow. yeah, the big meet. how are you spelling that, by the way?
speaker3: two `e's.

speaker1: just, maybe, might be best not to get too excited. it might be that their guys muscle in and have the lion's share of the talk time. 
speaker2: yeah. it might be like that.
speaker3: i think i can work a room, okay? i'm not a room virgin.

speaker1: simon. 
speaker2: michael.

speaker1: ah, michael? i'm chad. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: we'd like a dual horse-shoe formation for the meeting set-up - an enclave for ms clark, an enclave for the pentagon delegation. first names acceptable to all parties and politely we request the presence of both carbonated and non- carbonated waters.
speaker3: right.
speaker1: thanks so much.
speaker2: my who was that, young lankenstein?
speaker4: oh he'll be running something relatively major. they're all kids in washington. it's like bugsy malone, but with real guns.

speaker1: no-one will hear me if i say anything. how's your view? can we swap? 
speaker1: can i swap with you?
speaker2: i think the meeting's starting.
speaker1: well, quickly then, swap. simon and judy swap seats.
speaker3: we all agree this is a very tough time, but i don't want a consensus to form around the premise that conflict is necessarily the primary option at this point.
speaker1: are people thinking that? that's -- a bit hardcore. he cranes again to see.
speaker1: no, this is worse. swap back. simon and judy swap seats again.

speaker1: this paper, authored by one of my aides, liza weld. you don't mind me fore- grounding this do you liza? 
speaker1: illuminates the logistical factors we face. she highlights a number of reasons why, in practical terms, we can't envision a theatre deployment for twelve months.
speaker2: although not everyone might agree with the assumptions made in that paper.
speaker1: really - such as what?
speaker2: the committee feels a much quicker deployment is possible.
speaker1: which committee?
speaker2: this has been discussed in a number of committees. if i said one committee...
speaker1: you did.
speaker3: then that was a slip of the tongue
speaker1: have you accidentally alluded to some secret committee? a war committee?
speaker4: if i can interject here, i'm aware we're pushed for time. i'd like to move us on agenda-wise. our next item is international relief co-ordination.
speaker1: have you heard of this committee?
speaker3: what's this liza weld paper?

speaker1: should i say something? she invited me, i should say something. if you don't say something in the first 10 minutes, you can end up not saying anything at all. 
speaker2: i don't know whether you should say anything.
speaker1: i'm saying something ... i think i'm going to try saying something.
speaker3: look - i just think it's worth noting that ministers in the uk government, such as our colleague here ...
speaker1: is she talking about me?
speaker3: simon foster ...
speaker1: she's talking about me!
speaker3: has made it clear that for them currently war is unforeseeable. isn't that right simon?
speaker1: well, yes, i mean, that's what i said. and i stick to what i said.
speaker1: but that doesn't mean that what i said won't ever change. it's not imutable. or mutable. it's an ongoing ...

speaker1: i wonder if there aren't some area of mutual agreement we can't rattle through here and see how much time we have at the end for this discussion? he's ended the debate. suzy comes round the back of the meeting all smiles and hands judy a note with a smile. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: is that all fine?
speaker2: that's all fine. thanks for that.
speaker3: thanks.

speaker1: come here - we need to talk what do you mean stop being a `tit'? in what way was i being a tit? why am i even over here if i'm not meant to say anything? 
speaker2: you were just meat in the room, simon.
speaker1: 'meat in the room'? oh for fuck's sake judy. i took an hour out to come over here and be room meat?

speaker1: but you know you're a prime cut, you're not - offal. 
speaker2: great, i'm not liver. what was i, meat?

speaker1: whichever committee they don't want me to be a member of, i want to be a member of that. it's a confused groucho marx. 
speaker2: okay. right.
speaker3: hey liza. your paper got a major citation. you must be psyched karen brought it up.
speaker2: she...that was her call. i didn't know it had been that widely read.
speaker3: you could not write anything that clashes more violently with the current climate than you the one you wrote if you were trying, and it almost seems like you were trying.
speaker2: i wasn't trying, believe me.
speaker3: you are like the woman from the omen, you've given birth to a demon and it's going to kill you.

speaker1: you probably identify with the kid from the omen right? 
speaker2: ooh.
speaker1: see, you're an only child, aren't you?
speaker2: you bring this up whenever you run out of arguments. i don't see how my parents' limited reproductive abilities reflects badly on me. i'm the sperm that made it. liza walks off, over to karen.
speaker2: have fun with your career kryptonite.

speaker1: what's that all about? it looks important. 
speaker2: my teeth hurt. i think the veneers are chipped. do they look chipped?
speaker3: well, i think that one, that one's always been there, right? i'm not sure. have you got any painkillers?
speaker2: oh, don't look at my teeth.

speaker1: i don't want to risk a dentist here. 
speaker2: hey liza!
speaker3: oh ... hi ... hi?
speaker2: toby? it's toby.
speaker3: hi. hi.
speaker4: what are you doing? you look like you're practicing baby massage.
speaker2: she did the kennedy scholarship at my college. i had a small thing for her.
speaker4: i can imagine.
speaker2: i'm not sure she remembered me.
speaker4: no, that is one of the side effects of rohypnol.

speaker1: yeah. i really really hope there's not a war. it's going to be a nightmare. it's bad enough having to cope with the olympics. 
speaker2: minister!/simon!/mr foster!
speaker1: who let the dogs out? we don't need this.
speaker3: er, you wanted a chance to row back on the war. do you want to nail the line?
speaker1: what? no. no. i'll freestyle it.
speaker4: is war unforeseeable minister?
speaker1: look, ...loads of things that are actually very likely are also unforeseeable. y'know, for the plane in the fog the mountain is unforeseeable, but then it, is suddenly very real and inevitable. toby and judy look at one another. this isn't good.

speaker1: sorry, are you saying that...? 
speaker2: what i'm saying is that to - walk the road of peace, sometimes you need to be ready to climb the mountain of conflict. thank you!

speaker1: why didn't we nail the line? 
speaker2: i did try to warn you.
speaker1: you did try to warn me but you didn't actually stop me, did you?. that's like shouting 'train!' as i get hit by a train. you should go 'look! train! there's a train!'
speaker1: oh it's malcolm.
speaker2: it's malcolm for me too.
speaker1: how does he do that? hello?

speaker1: the thing is. on the war. with your profile.. ... maybe we should - get it out there? that the war is a resigning issue for you. 
speaker2: you can't say it's a resigning issue.
speaker3: you are having a really great first day you know that?
speaker4: you are supposed to be a cabinet minster. you are supposed to be officer class.
speaker2: we can do without the ritual humiliation, malcolm. you know i'm against talking up the war.
speaker4: you're against talking up the war? is that why you said, "climb the mountain of conflict"?
speaker4: page 28

speaker1: do you know what you sounded like? you sounded like a julie andrews. 
speaker2: i'm just saying. i might be forced to the verge of making a stand.
speaker3: right, you two, the white stripes, outside.
speaker3: there's only two people in the white stripes.

speaker1: to where...? 
speaker2: washington. the boss wants you over there on a fact-finder. problems we might face if it all goes boombastic in the middle east.
speaker1: oh. right.
speaker2: but you were saying, you are on the verge of your stand...
speaker1: well, look - i don't know what words i used in the heat of the moment, but maybe in a sense i was on the verge. but that's the important thing - i was on the verge.
speaker2: christ on a bendy-bus, simon, stop being such a faffing fuck-arse.
speaker1: i am standing my ground on the verge.

speaker1: well, when you go to america, talk to karen clarke at the state department, 
speaker2: i'll give it a whirl.
speaker1: but keep away from linton barwick. he's pushing the war for caulderwood's lot. i'll deal with him. dangerous keeps a live hand-grenade as a paperweight. true story.
speaker2: oh right. i won't talk to him.
speaker1: talk to as few people as possible. that would be best for you.

speaker1: okay - so, priorities are: take a shower, get me on linton's war committee, get me a dental appointment. not necessarily in that order. 
speaker2: ah. karen.
speaker1: linton.
speaker2: how was london? good hotel?
speaker1: great hotel, thank you.

speaker1: good meetings? 
speaker2: yes. we had some good discussions. the time at number ten could possibly have been better spent but then...
speaker1: good. welcome back. i'll read your words when they come through. thank you so much
speaker2: is chad coming... ?
speaker3: he's doing his desperate chorus girl thing, hanging around trying to catch linton's eye. that's why he's wearing his push-up bra today.
speaker4: assistant secretary of state -- hi.
speaker1: brad.
speaker4: chad
speaker1: uh-huh. exactly
speaker4: can i...?
speaker2: so listen, liza, i need you to find out the names of the ten dullest committees currently operating on the hill.
speaker3: dullest?

speaker1: because linton is not going to call it the big horrible scarey war committee...they'll have buried the war committee under the most boring name they can think of. 'diverse strategy committee'- not that, i'm on that. but it'll be a committee that sounds so tedious you want to self-harm. 
speaker1: can you get me general miller at the pentagon? my teeth hurt like hell.
speaker2: sick of hearing about the teeth... liza goes to her desk, picks up her landline. liza hi. i'm calling from karen clark's office about a paper written by a staffer here. we need to know if 'post war planning: parameters, implication's and possibilities' has reached assistant secretary of state linton barwick yet? yeah...by liza weld. 'pwip pip'? it's already been given an acronym? no i don't want to fast-track it. would it possible to slow-track it? well can we create one?

speaker1: i do not understand why anyone would choose to work in a glass office. in my opinion glass offices are for perverts. 
speaker2: i could request the glass be frosted?

speaker1: frosting is for cakes, bob. now. what happened in london? 
speaker2: generally positive. two glitches. karen flagged a report by one of her staffers - liza. she's obviously trying to use it as some kind of roadblock. it's called pwip pip.
speaker1: pip what?
speaker2: pwip pip.
speaker1: what is that a report on - birdcalls?
speaker2: i don't recall. it's factish. intel - case for and against intervention.
speaker1: we've got all the facts we need on this. in the land of truth, my friend, the man with one fact is king. you said there was another thing?
speaker2: in the meeting with the foreign office the committee was accidentally briefly alluded to.
speaker1: which committee?
speaker2: the war committee.
speaker1: karen must not find out about that. she is an excitable yapping she-dog. okay get the minutes of the meeting, we need to correct the record.
speaker2: we can do that?

speaker1: yes we can. they're an aide memoir for us. so they should not be a reductive record of what happened to be said, but a more full record of what was intended to be said. i think that's the more accurate version, right? 
speaker1: i don't like this section. cut that. i don't think this is really what france are saying. let's change that. and these.
speaker2: that's something karen said.
speaker1: it's not right. change it.
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: and i like this.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: let's say everyone agreed with this.
speaker2: excellent.

speaker1: you want me to order some blinds? or i could get some heavy curtains with swags and a pelmet. 
speaker2: yes. i do.
speaker1: oh. okay ...
speaker2: can we go somewhere else?
speaker2: so listen. my team for the us. team simon. i'm thinking of taking you and leaving judy?
speaker1: i could work with that, definitely. plus she can be a bit... you know? "everything's a bit isn't it?"
speaker2: "so you're the president? and i'm supposed to be impressed by that?
speaker1: yeah. "my husband works in tower hamlets."
speaker2: "that's much harder than being president". okay. it's settled. it.

speaker1: which brings us on to any other business. 
speaker2: i believe i've flagged everything i needed to discuss. as i usually do.

speaker1: or everything you're prepared to discuss. 
speaker2: what is that, karen
speaker1: i understand you've started up a new committee, what's it called?
speaker2: what makes you think that?
speaker1: it was mentioned in our london meeting.
speaker2: you must have misheard.
speaker1: i misheard the word committee?
speaker2: maybe it was another word. like khomeini.
speaker1: you're sitting on a new khomeini?
speaker2: possibly. there are a lot of words, karen. kansas city. kitty.
speaker3: itty.
speaker2: itty is not a word, bob.
speaker4: commissary?
speaker2: thank you, james
speaker4: chad.
speaker1: ok. why don't you just recap for me all the committees that you're currently sitting on?

speaker1: i'm sorry, karen, you appear to be bleeding from your mouth. 
speaker2: oh don't try to change the subject linton.
speaker3: oh no. holy mother of....
speaker1: i don't mean to be rude karen but that is a tad... repulsive. i can't concentrate on what you're saying. you have blood coming out of your teeth and that's not right.
speaker2: okay, liza come with me.
speaker4: go, buffy - you belong to the vampire queen now.
speaker1: i don't like to see a woman bleeding from the mouth. it makes me think of country and western music. which i really can't abide.
speaker4: yes! ha ha! exactly.
speaker1: actually while we're on any other business i do have a few points i'd like to resolve.

speaker1: where are at you at with the committees? 
speaker2: i got it down to two. the aims and policy alignment committee. here - put some down your front - you don't want it to go down your... and the future planning committee.
speaker1: well, it's not the first one. i set that one up. does that really sound dull to you? i thought that was a good name.
speaker2: right, no, it is a good name.
speaker1: okay, find out if it is definitely the future planning committee.
speaker2: okay. okay. right, listen, i might go and do that. you're not going to shout at me if i go and do that are you?
speaker1: i'm not a monster liza, okay? will you stop implying i'm some kind of monster?

speaker1: bob! 
speaker2: liza. liza sprints and catches up with him.

speaker1: so listen, bob, there's something i really want to tell you. we're having a hunk of the month competition, and i just didn't want you to be feel...objectified in any way....and 
speaker2: oh really?
speaker1: karen knows about the future planning committee.
speaker2: i have no idea what you're talking about.

speaker1: this is cool. 
speaker2: don't be callow toby. we're on official business.
speaker2: there will be a car won't there?
speaker1: oh yeah, of course.

speaker1: did you book a car? 
speaker2: me? no. i mean, judy will have got someone to do it.
speaker2: hi judy? yeah sorry if you're in bed, but we're here and... just can't see the car? wondered what the car situation was?
speaker3: what car situation?
speaker2: the airport car?
speaker3: that's not my job toby. that's robbie's job to book it, your job to check it and confirm it. alright? good night.

speaker1: yeah. she's really embarrassed. sounds like a snarl up her end. i'll see what we can do? 
speaker1: here we go.
speaker2: `simon forester?' page 40

speaker1: i almost feel like there should be hookers. do you know what i mean? really, here, we should have hookers. 
speaker2: hey gav, i'm in a motorcade!
speaker3: you want girls?
speaker1: what? oh no. no. no no no no no. i was just - i was just joking. i don't want hookers. i hate hookers. i mean not in an aggressive way. i'm just not interested. but thanks. thanks very much.

speaker1: toby, have you....? 
speaker2: it's supposed to be a dollar a bag.
speaker2: technically, you've got a capitol hill view.

speaker1: hey karen. you look beautiful. 
speaker2: i bet you say that to all the girls.
speaker1: yeah i do. and some of the guys.
speaker2: that's why you shouldn't run for senate. too many skeletons in your enormous closet.
speaker1: yeah, don't believe the hype. i'm just thinking about doing ... something. i'm more than just a soldier, karen.
speaker2: that's right, you're passionate about education and housing and what's the other thing?
speaker1: lingerie.

speaker1: that's right. 
speaker2: and bestiality.
speaker1: i'd forgotten about that. are you still allergic to that dog?
speaker2: yes, yes. i wake up and my eyes are closed and my head is swollen and i look like a giant ball sack.
speaker1: oh my they do have memdication for that.....but a beautiful ball sack, though. and how's the pentagon?
speaker2: it's kicked up a level. talking invasion real soon.
speaker1: is there somewhere we can talk?
speaker2: i don't know, i don't live in this house.

speaker1: what if someone comes in now? 
speaker2: i can't think of an excuse that would work can you?
speaker1: no. just be careful. don't mess stuff up.
speaker2: okay so that's total minimum european theatre requirement.
speaker2: this is far east, korea, japan etc.

speaker1: add those. plus contingency already deployed. 
speaker2: er - you've lost me.
speaker2: your military hardware is impressive.
speaker1: not anymore it isn't. okay so this is total current deployment. europe, asia. and the contingency already deployed. so the current number of combat troops available for an invasion according to these figures would be ...
speaker3: twelve.
speaker2: thousand?
speaker1: no, twelve. twelve soldiers. twelve.
speaker2: you're me.
speaker1: of course i'm you, but 12 thousand isn't enough. twelve thousand's about how many are going to die. and you really need a few guys alive at the end of a war or it looks like you've lost.
speaker2: uh-huh. tomorrow i've got to meet these brits. simon foster. he's the guy that said war was unforseeable, and i think he could very useful on the committee because he could internationalise the dissent.

speaker1: tobes. hi. so! what's the plan? what swanky reception are we going to? 
speaker2: what's the plan? for tonight?
speaker1: well that's what i'm asking you toby, my chief aide, my political advisor.
speaker2: i don't know, i thought tonight we'd be tired?
speaker1: well i am tired but i'm also a career politician toby, in the political powerhouse of the world for forty-eight hours. so i thought it might be nice to, you know, go out rather than sit in my room trying to spank one out watching a shark documentary, because i'm scared if i watch a it'll end up in the register of members interests. so what have you got?
speaker2: okay ... what have i got?
speaker1: don't me toby.
speaker2: okay - so far, we have ... one flyer under the door for happy hour in the bar - which might be interesting? and i have the number of a guy i was with at uni who i believe now works for cnn out here.
speaker1: no.

speaker1: no? 
speaker2: liza, where are you?
speaker3: waving at you.
speaker2: make yourself more visible.
speaker3: i'm practically on top of you.
speaker2: you can stop talking on your phone now. look, i have to leave. phone simon foster's guy. tell them to come to the war committee. i'll give them some face time around ten o'clock. it'll be coffee and danish...tea..they're going to want tea. tea and sympathy. tea and a handjob, whatever.
speaker3: ok.

speaker1: there is still a great deal that is unknown about great white shark mating behaviour... 
speaker2: well it is unbelievably hectic.

speaker1: you can definitely spot the female ones can't you?! 
speaker2: attending the war committee. that's big. i mean, i have been on a committee before. "challenges for the cheese market" - that was a big one... but...yes, sure i'd love a drink. forty minutes? great. bye bye bye-bye-bye-bye-bye bye.
speaker2: hello? hi? hello?
speaker2: matty, hi, how's cnn? yes -- sorry? do i sound muffled? can't mate. yeah, liza weld's's got us on to linton's future planning committee in the morning. the war committee, to you and me. so i'm prepping...what? yes, future planning committee is the war committee. you don't know that? i thought you worked for cnn? or is that cartoon network news?

speaker1: come in....i just wasn't expecting you to be here. physically here. obviously, you're always in my heart. 
speaker2: i'm here, i'm there, i'm everywhere. i am the egg-man.
speaker1: have you come to insult me in a different time zone?
speaker3: no, off out now for a drink with her...yeah, yeah, ha-di-ha, but nothing's going to happen there. little toby's staying in his hammock tonight.
speaker3: simon, i've managed to get us on the...
speaker2: hello!!
speaker3: malcolm!
speaker2: you're meant to yourself in there.
speaker3: right. i've got us on to linton's future planning committee in the morning.
speaker1: okay. what's that?

speaker1: it's the war committee. 
speaker2: what? the actual....war committee?
speaker1: yeah, liza says that...
speaker2: who's going to be there?
speaker1: karen clark, liza, me and simon. simon and me.
speaker2: who else is going -- jimmy osmond? gwyneth paltrow? you've been invited to a diversion. the real committee, the real thing, that's happening at the white house.
speaker1: yeah well, i'll text you the details because i'm going to go out.for a quick drink with some state department bods.
speaker2: don't mention this to the press, ok? don't mention it to anyone. because if the press get a whiff there's a war committee, even a cardboard one, every in this town is going to turn up and try and get on it. so no matter what gay bar you end up, keep it schtumm. malcolm flicks the tv over to a news channel.
speaker3: i was watching that.
speaker2: i have to have a word with you. you might want to slip into your negligee. toby heads out. page 49

speaker1: you see those guys? the mosh pit? 
speaker2: yes, i don't think i've ever seen a more civilised 'mosh pit' it's more of a mosh caucus actually.
speaker1: house staffers, senators' interns, most of them are half-man half-pdf file. tonight they rage hard. tomorrow they go back to the hill and argue noise reduction legislation.
speaker2: you're worried.
speaker1: it's pwip pip.
speaker2: i'm sorry? pip pip? is this... a person or a cell phone tarrif or..
speaker1: it's my paper. on the war. pros and cons of the war. but i came up with too many cons. the pro-war guys have started calling me `connie'. so, yes i'm worried. my career's on the line.
speaker2: yeah- i noticed you're worried, cos i saw you looking worried. i'm perceptive like that. but... don't worry.
speaker1: okay, this place blows. i'm going. what are you doing?

speaker1: well i'm incredibly tired. it feels like my brain's eight hours behind but my liver's 12 hours ahead. 
speaker2: you don't want to come back to my place for a quick catch up?
speaker1: however, due to technological developments i no longer need sleep, but am physically rejuvenated by alcohol!
speaker1: could i just say, you know, that what happens in washington stays in washington?
speaker2: yeah i live in washington. so that doesn't really work for me.

speaker1: we are under enormous pressure simon. karen will want you to say, `war is unforeseeable'. linton will want you to talk up `climbing the mountain of conflict'. you say nothing, okay? you can't swing both ways, you're not david bowie. 
speaker2: right. can i go to bed now?
speaker1: no, we're going to run that through.
speaker2: am i being tortured?

speaker1: hello i need a number for a taxi in washington dc. straight through please. 
speaker1: hello. i need a cab, right now. from? from where? from from
speaker1: it's 40, 46, that's the number, and it's a street. it's a nice street with houses and cars and a - sidewalk and it's got leaves and - hold on i'm walking, i'm walking to a sign ...
speaker2: marcel's is good.
speaker3: uh-huh.
speaker4: you should go to la taverna, the greek place. it's fantastic.
speaker2: they set fire to the cheese. it's a lot of fun.

speaker1: it sounds a lot of fun. 
speaker2: there's the aerospace museum, the national gallery.
speaker1: do they set fire to the paintings?
speaker3: hi i'm sorry i'm so late.
speaker2: and this is your guy?
speaker1: yes. he's, you know, among my guys.
speaker2: i'm karen. and i believe you already know liza.
speaker3: yes. from college, in england.
speaker2: pulled an all-nighter?
speaker3: yes, i, uh, got led astray.
speaker2: oh who by?
speaker3: uh, well i ran into - people. there's some people from - the mod over and ...
speaker2: not penny grayling?
speaker3: er - no, another - gang?
speaker2: right. wow. i didn't know you had so many delegations in town. page 53

speaker1: the british are coming! 
speaker2: well, i need to just check out a couple of things ... this seems like a good point to break things up.
speaker3: er - no problem.
speaker4: it's been great.
speaker3: terrific.
speaker2: i really appreciate this.
speaker1: brilliant.

speaker1: was that...? 
speaker2: toby -- i don't want to read you the riot act here but i am going to have to read some extracts from the riot act. like section 1 paragraph 1 clause 1. don't leave your boss twisting in the wind and then burst in late smelling like a seaside donkey. `the british are coming'?
speaker1: so i turned up late to the meeting simon. i'm sorry. but it's not like i threw up in there.

speaker1: no you're right. i should be thanking you for not throwing up. well done. you're a star. you didn't wet yourself, you're in the right city, you didn't say anything overtly racist, you didn't pull your out and start plucking it and shouting 'willy banjo'. no i'm being unfair, you got so much right. without actually being there for the beginning of one of the biggest meetings of my career. you're a legend. an uncomfortable beat. 
speaker2: that was just - the first bit was it?
speaker1: we'd barely said hello. i've had muggings that have lasted longer than that. we really only spoke about flammable cheese.
speaker3: are these all requests to get on the committee? what's going on? did someone post an invite on facebook? i'm drowning in senators. it's senator soup here.
speaker2: hi liza.
speaker3: hey toby.
speaker2: you feeling okay?
speaker3: yes, i'm feeling fine. why were you late?
speaker2: because...you know...you didn't wake me up.

speaker1: you looked so sweet. i thought you knew what you were doing. 
speaker2: i was asleep, of course i didn't. that's how people walk out of windows.
speaker1: what is going on here? why's this my problem? toby you sure you didn't do bad? you didn't mention the committee to anyone else?
speaker2: nada. nada.. bad-da. nada-bada bing-bong ding-dang-dong. i have no idea what i'm saying anymore i think i really am still quite drunk.
speaker3: everyone is so hot for your paper. i'm running off another ten copies. it's spreading like a virus, liza. you're in hot water. you're lobsterising.
speaker1: i don't feel that.
speaker3: it's by degrees. wafting. bisque. i smell lobster. can you smell lobster, toby?
speaker4: mate!
speaker2: i need to...
speaker1: sure. toby goes back to simon page 56

speaker1: how are you today? beat the traffic? 
speaker2: yeah yeah. hunky dory. can i get a coffee?
speaker1: sure, sure, if we get started, i'll get my assistant to bring us some refreshments.
speaker2: your assistant?
speaker1: yeah. so, item. we need to have a conversation about the mood of the british parliament. any bumps in the road ahead.
speaker2: i'm sorry son, am i - is this it? no offence, but shouldn't you be at school with your head down a toilet?
speaker1: your first point there, the offence. i'm afraid i'm gonna have to take it. your second point. i'm 22. but - item - it's my birthday in nine days, so if it would be more comfortable we could... wait...? page 57

speaker1: don't get sarcastic with me son. we burnt this tight-arsed city to the ground in 1814 and i'm all for doing it again. starting with you, you frat you get sarcastic with me again and i will stuff so much cotton wool dowm your throat it'll come out of your like the wee tail on a bunny. okay? i thought...i was led to believe i was attending the war committee. 
speaker2: yes, assistant secretary of state linton barwick wanted me to brief you on the work of the future planning committee.
speaker1: i don't want the son, i want the bull. no one sidelines me. i'm away.
speaker1: and here we go - the vice president has also graced us with his presence! malcolm runs out, on the phone.

speaker1: where is the war committee meeting? 
speaker2: simon's going to the war committee i thought you knew?
speaker1: i thought i was going to the war committee? tell me where the it's happening!

speaker1: it's on the 7th floor in room 712. oh malcolm, do you like how i'm telling you what's going on where you are? 
speaker2: well let me tell you what's going on where you are sweet heart, a certain vinegar faced maniplulative cowbag is about to find that she's out of a job...

speaker1: here she comes - - look like we're meeting, look like we're having a meeting! 
speaker2: ... and if you look ... at the line they take in newsweek - that's very much ...
speaker3: see you at the committee.
speaker1: yeah, yeah sure, see you in a mo. just finishing off some stuff. okay, we're all done there. let's roll. toby looks at him. as they get up and follow her at speed, tripping to keep up.
speaker2: i don't think you can say that anymore here. they don't like that.
speaker1: shut up. follow them. don't lose them. lets rock.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: are you joining me or shall i see you there?
speaker2: see you there. i don't need to ... do any of the things you need to go in there to do, so i'll just see you there.

speaker1: we seem to be overrun with insurgents here, bob. 
speaker2: hi, i'm in seat 204, row w. will i be able to see the big screen from there? oh, and can i get one of those big pointy foam hands with `go, monster trucks!' written on it?
speaker1: the general is on rare form, very rare form.
speaker3: there he is. general george miller.
speaker4: right, yep. there he is.

speaker1: okay, due to the fact that seemingly everyone in the world who owns a suit has turned up for this meeting, we'll be relocating to a bigger room. room 720. so, if you will be so kind... 
speaker2: just so you know -- karen and i did not appreciate having to sneak around like mulder and scully trying to find out about this committee.
speaker1: well, you're both here now. john and yoko.
speaker2: you and i need to talk, mano-a-mano, on the block, about how things are operating around here at the moment.
speaker1: sure. how about 12:30 tomorrow, my office?

speaker1: good. 
speaker2: what the happened?
speaker3: i have no idea how they all heard sir. there must have been a leak.
speaker1: look at adriano. poor he looks like he's with his daddy: "sorry, bob, you're adopted. from a couple with hereditary heart defects."
speaker4: "and your mother only ever kept your baby clothes for the purposes of voodoo."
speaker5: i'm room meat again. this is a massive abattoir of room meat. stay outside tobes, i need a guy on the outside. make friends with chad, that boy from the shining. he knows stuff. pump him.
speaker6: oh no. i want to stay in here with miller. don't make me pump chad.
speaker5: i'm making you pump chad. go on.
speaker5: it'll be easy peasy lemon squeezy.
speaker6: no it won't. it'll be difficult difficult lemon difficult.

speaker1: so, welcome to this, somewhat engorged session of the future planning committee. you can all see an agenda? 
speaker2: assistant secretary -- here on point 6, it feels like there's an assumption that we'll be invading. should we talk about the practical? i mean this is the war committee after all?
speaker1: it's the future planning committee.
speaker2: unofficially it's known as the war committee.
speaker1: well, unofficially we can call anything whatever we like. unofficially, this is a shoe. but it's not a shoe, karen, it's a glass of water, and this is the future planning committee.

speaker1: but what i'm asking is has a decision been reached in principle to advocate invasion? 
speaker2: that's way off agenda karen. although it would seem a general consensus may be forming.
speaker1: what makes you say that?
speaker2: well i noted with interest the recent comments of our colleague simon foster in that regard.
speaker1: perhaps mr. foster would have something to say about that?
speaker3: i'm just...watching with interest. in britain we have a saying for complicated situations such as this, which is that it's `difficult, difficult, lemon, difficult.' he goes back to his text.
speaker2: as i say it seems a consensus is forming.
speaker1: that's just ridiculous. you have no basis for saying that.
speaker2: karen, please, calm down. we don't want you to have another hemorrhage. item one.

speaker1: so - do you want to go out and get some lunch? 
speaker2: are you kidding? lunchtime is work time.
speaker1: yes, what an incredibly depressing motto. you see you're playing into the hands of the french saying that.
speaker1: 
speaker2: yeah work hours are too valuable - for networking. you gotta get in at like 6 work till 8.30 then start making those connections baby. emails and admin at lunch. see if you can play some strategic racquetball through the pm. then in the six till midnight slot chow down on some serious policy work.
speaker1: right. and what - friends, family, novels, sexual inter-course you're going to save those for your thirties and forties?

speaker1: mr tucker, isn't it? hello again. 
speaker2: you might pull this kind of stunt on some young fresh up from oklahoma, happy to be getting his hookers paid for by tobacco lobbyists, but not me.
speaker1: what seems to be the problem?
speaker2: i've just had a briefing from a 9-year- old finalist in americas got talent. i think he may have been a ventriloquist.
speaker1: aj? he is one of my top guys. stanton college prep, harvard...he's smart and he's great at his job.
speaker2: his briefing notes were written in alphabetti spaghetti. when i left i nearly tripped over his umbilical cord.
speaker1: i'm sorry if it troubles you that our people achieve excellence at a young age.
speaker1: by the way, your prime minister informs me that he's tasked you with collating some fresh british intel for us.
speaker2: yeah, apparently your master race of gifted toddlers can't quit get the job done in between breast feeds and playing with their power rangers. so yeah, we're getting some actual grown-ups to bail you out. simon gets closer. linton moves in.
speaker1: minister, thank you so much for your support and your recent "climb the mountain of conflict" comment - great. we're going to run with that, it has great repeatability.

speaker1: thanks very much, but...it's all a bit complex really, in terms of my... 
speaker2: it's early days, my friend. all roads lead to munich.
speaker3: what the does that mean? `all roads lead to munich'?
speaker1: well it just means...i guess, i don't know what it means.
speaker3: `all roads lead to munich'?
speaker3: come on let's go, get back to the hotel, nick as many coat hangers as you can. we're off back to london.

speaker1: it's beautiful. 
speaker2: if you pull it out, america deflates.
speaker3: don't mock that! the closest you'll come to getting one of those is buying a toblerone. mark hadley's dad's died.
speaker1: oh no. should we send mark a card?
speaker3: nah, i'll send him a ouija board so they can keep in touch. page 67

speaker1: so what are we getting back to? apart from a nice cup of tea and some knife crime? 
speaker2: constituency surgery in northampton.
speaker1: great, meeting my constituents. it's like being simon cowell, but without the ability to say, `fuck off, you're mental.'

speaker1: look at them. they all have that smell....like a charity shop, you know? afternoon! 
speaker2: right, here you go, you're pretty booked up - there's a list on the desk. i'm just going to have a look at the guttering.
speaker1: i'm just back from america, so it was pretty tough to make it up here - but you know. that's me.
speaker2: of course. right. how was the president?

speaker1: good actually. 
speaker2: and what was the white house like?
speaker1: blown up by spaceships.

speaker1: twelve-thirty. 
speaker2: um, hold on general ... and into linton's office.
speaker1: what the
speaker2: yeah, secretary linton barwick wanted me to let you know his last - meeting looks like it's over-running. he sends apologies.
speaker1: he stood me up? they're better be a good reason. like he's dead. that is just plain rude. i mean, how would he like it if i just did a big hairy on his desk?
speaker2: you're very w-welcome to wait, we have newspapers and periodicals?

speaker1: yeah well excuse me if at this time of national crisis i don't sit with a thumb up my flipping through time magazine eating pop tarts? tell him to call me. but he might not get through cos i'm a busy man. he finds himself heading into karen's office. 
speaker2: hey, what is it?
speaker1: yeah - can i hang around in here for a while?
speaker2: er. sure. why?
speaker1: do i need a reason? linton's playing me like a turkey drumstick on a big bass drum.
speaker2: look, i was going to order food, do you want to eat.
speaker1: yeah. order us some cute mammals. alive. a lamb or a piglet so i can snap it's neck.

speaker1: no, of course not. nor should you be treated like one. okay, mrs mcdairmid. leave it with me. i'm sure there must be a way through this. alright? 
speaker2: er, colin lowe.
speaker1: still on about bendy buses? no. tell him no. what else?
speaker2: pauline michaelson's son about the constituency office wall.

speaker1: hi, thanks for seeing me mr. foster. 
speaker2: hi paul, call me simon. you've met roz.

speaker1: i know i have. 
speaker2: lovely.
speaker1: okay, simon, i'll try to keep it brief because i can see you're a busy man. there's a bloke out there wants to make it illegal to talk in a foreign language in shops.
speaker2: yes, well, this place can become a magnet for the mentally dispossessed. and for sensible people like yourself, paul.
speaker1: patronising.
speaker3: why don't you explain your issue, mr michaelson?
speaker1: i...sorry, is this a joke? how many times? for the fourth f...ing time. the side wall. of this property. your wall. is falling over. on to my mum's garden. she called you up - but she got fobbed off by your people. because she's not lord snooty in his posh car. because she's not madonna on a horse.
speaker2: that...i agree, it's unacceptable.
speaker1: do you know what this is? that's your constituency office hold music. i don't want it in my head, do i?
speaker2: we did arrange to get a quote from a builder, but... roz has a call on the landline.

speaker1: patch from london. they say it's urgent. karen clark? is she the coracle woman? 
speaker2: right. paul, i really need to take this, but i haven't forgotten about you, okay?
speaker3: no, well i'm not going anywhere, simon. you won't be able to forget me because i'll be sitting here staring at you.
speaker2: toby, can i hand paul over to you?
speaker3: "can i fob paul off with you?"
speaker4: so, paul, where are we up to? i was out getting coffee. sorry.

speaker1: see, this is the problem with civilians wanting to go to war. when you've been there you don't want to go back unless you absolutely have to. it's like france. 
speaker2: you finally read liza's paper?
speaker1: course, i read it. i'm a voracious reader. i'm the gore vidal of the pentagon. you don't want that?

speaker1: yes i want that. i want that, that, that, that and that. those i don't care about. and these let's pack up and drop on north korea. 
speaker2: someone should leak this.
speaker1: someone maybe shaped a little bit like you.
speaker2: me? are you kidding?
speaker1: you have more gravitas.
speaker2: exactly. i'm too senior. i can't leak. leaking is for people like your liza and the boy called it out there. it's insane. not only is the case against war incredibly strong, the case for is caveated to hell. "most analysts believe the state is looking to expand aggressively beyond its borders..." then here in the caveats, the only source is `ice man' - a possible alcoholic - who's probably called that cos he gets through ten bags / icebergs a day in his vodka tonics. inr say we can't trust him. that's us disputing our own findings. has linton read this?
speaker1: i'm not sure he reads. you're a general. have him killed.
speaker2: you see this is why we never got together. that and the hobo teeth.

speaker1: this is a private call right -- unrecorded, secure line etc etc? 
speaker2: well, yeah. i mean, your lot are probably getting it somehow, but our lot shouldn't be. paul michaelson calls over.
speaker3: i'm still here, simon.
speaker1: what's going on simon?
speaker2: departmental business. about a wall.
speaker1: gaza?
speaker2: uh-huh. what can i do for you?
speaker1: where were you in the committee? i called for back-up, you sat there like a sack of maybe worse, cos at a molecular level a bag of is probably fizzing with energy.
speaker2: well - okay. yes. um. well, i have to say karen, i have a clear strategy here. i'm playing the long game.
speaker1: there is no long game. they've bounced us into a short game. you looked like a...what do you call it in england? a 'wanker
speaker2: we don't call it that, no...
speaker4: paul, look, mate...

speaker1: patronising. 
speaker2: sorry. but i'm on your side. i have to look after my mum too. you do, or they get shafted don't they? so... simon wants to talk.
speaker1: i'm going to pursue this with, what do they call it? extreme prejudice, to the very end. i can be enormously persistent.
speaker3: okay, well, i'll take your details.
speaker4: that guy's a bit full-beam.
speaker2: full-beam?
speaker4: yeah, full-beam. headlights. i kept thinking, is he going to nut me. he appears not to be nutting me, but he might well nut me.
speaker2: so what did karen clark want?
speaker4: do you think i came over as weak on the committee over there?
speaker2: well, uh, no, of course not. i suppose - simon's phone goes again. he winces picks up.

speaker1: i find that difficult to believe. 
speaker2: i want action to be taken. i want a head. on a plate. to go.
speaker1: you don't work here. you're not my boss.

speaker1: we need to talk in my office. 
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: i think you know.
speaker1: come, come into my office.
speaker2: why? why do you need to see me?
speaker3: what's this?

speaker1: it's the mad man about the wall. 
speaker2: the war?
speaker1: the wall.
speaker3: can you come into my office so i can tell you off?
speaker2: hello. can i help you?
speaker2: you no, not you.

speaker1: what can i do for you paul? 
speaker2: these `temporary buttresses' you got put up.
speaker1: right?
speaker2: they're basically a pair of twigs. thin twigs.

speaker1: i'm sure they're not twigs. 
speaker2: no they're twigs. are you getting a picture of those twigs? that wall could fall on my mum and crush her. do you know how old she is? mum, how old are you? i want to tell the newspaper guy.
speaker3: sixty.
speaker4: i want a word with the minister and charlotte bronte.
speaker2: you're never sixty. you're older than that. sixty. how old are you really?
speaker3: i'm sixty. if it's going in a newspaper, i'm sixty.
speaker2: off are you sixty. olivia newton- john's sixty. and she's not on the statins, is she?
speaker1: could you tell your mum to stay away from the wall just for the time being?
speaker2: she needs to get to her plants. she has to water them. plants need water.
speaker1: no, sure, but could she use a hose, from a distance?
speaker2: she doesn't have a hose, she's got a watering can. this is like talking to a brick wall about a brick wall. get that down, that's gold.

speaker1: liza, what's up? why is everyone running around? this better be a fire drill. 
speaker2: the president has said he's vetoing tarrifs on chinese auto imports.
speaker1: 
speaker1: abbey, get me the president's statement.
speaker3: mr barwick has asked me to...
speaker1: you work to me, abbey, you work to me. get me the statement. or i will call security and have you escorted off the premises via the window.
speaker2: sorry, why is that...? he's...what, buttering the chinese up?
speaker1: he needs them to at least abstain in the security council. a beat.
speaker2: we're going to the un.
speaker1: yes, we're going to the un.
speaker2: 

speaker1: i should be told this stuff! i'm going into linton's office and pulling the pin on his grenade. 
speaker2: don't do that.
speaker1: i'm joking.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: why didn't you know about this?
speaker2: well since i created the budget deficit the president doesn't tend to run things by me anymore.
speaker1: don't get funny with me. i am not in the mood.
speaker2: no. i'm getting that.

speaker1: "while foster jets around at the taxpayer's expense, his constituency headquarter's wall's collapsing and he doesn't give a 
speaker2: it doesn't say that.
speaker1: no but it says `wall-ace and gromitt'
speaker2: wall-ace though?

speaker1: you are being portrayed as the biggest in northamptonshire, and that's going some. 
speaker2: it is just a wall, malcolm.
speaker1: listen, my little stem cell, i don't want to be dealing with this either, okay? i've got bigger fish to fry, believe me. i'm rolling blue whales in breadcrumbs at the moment. i'm giving this to jamie.
speaker3: oh great. the crossest man in scotland.
speaker4: well, if it isn't humpty-numpty...
speaker3: what is this, surround bollocking?
speaker4: with respect, i haven't finished. if it isn't humpty-numpty, sitting on top of a collapsing wall like some clueless egg-
speaker3: hi jamie.
speaker2: hello.
speaker4: okay, that's enough of the oxbridge pleasantries.
speaker2: how is saying "hello" a...
speaker4: shut it, love, actually, or i'll hole- punch your face.
speaker1: right, i'm off to deal with the fate of the planet, okay? simon, toby and jamie look at him.

speaker1: don't look at me like that's arrogant. that is just a fact. don't even look at me. be gentle with them. 
speaker2: you know me, malcy, kid gloves. made from real kids. malcolm leaves.
speaker2: right, butch and gaydance, this wall story is playing badly. look, here's a cartoon of you as a walrus.
speaker3: a walrus? i'm not fat. i don't even have a moustache.
speaker4: look...we hired some builders. they didn't turn up when they said they would.
speaker2: they're builders. what did you expect?! have you ever seen a film where the hero is a builder? no. because they never turn up in the nick of time.that's why you never see a superhero with a hod.

speaker1: this is all getting...this is a really stressful job, you know that? 
speaker2: oh come on, you're not a brain surgeon, you're not a snooker player ...
speaker1: i don't want to back a war, judy.

speaker1: oh. right. 
speaker2: look, drop some hints, put some nods and winks out there, that i'm toying with resignation. yeah? see if the pm reacts. see how it plays.
speaker1: put out some winks?
speaker2: and nods.
speaker1: big nods?
speaker2: no, no, just sort of... that sort of size nod.
speaker2: no, not that much.
speaker1: no, i was just nodding normally to say i understood the need for a small nod.
speaker2: oh. good.

speaker1: so, my lovely friends, bottom line... 
speaker2: i hate that phrase. we're not in retailing
speaker1: sorry michael, i promise never to use it again.
speaker1: page 84

speaker1: bottom line, is that the president is going to the un, and the pm would like us to join him. this will be the voe to commence military action. so, rob, innis, little bo jockey and the leaky mingebox, return to your desks and prepare for some extreme briefing. 
speaker2: now then, you still got doubts, complicated simon?
speaker3: what the malcolm. this is all going to spin along from here and we have a vote and we go to war. we fight people, and kill them, and our kids get killed, and that's exactly the sort of thing i didn't want to do when i went into politics. that's the opposite of what i want to be doing.
speaker2: that's why you've got to stay in government. in here you can influence things, delay things. out there you're just another mad shouty people don't want to make eye-contact with. remember mary? she took a stand over health. everyone decided she was mental.
speaker3: only because the sun showed a photo of her with wide eyes and her head on a cow.
speaker2: i found that a very powerful image. look, the prime minister of this country is not a viking. he doesn't drink blood, he doesn't go round biting tramps. he doesn't go to chequers at the weekend for a bit of light and a pub lunch.
speaker3: i know the prime minister isn't a viking, malcolm.
speaker2: unlike me, the man abhors physical violence.
speaker2: page 85

speaker1: he's a grade a and he knows you have similar concerns and he wants your input on this. yeah? 
speaker2: where's the intelligence? where's the hard evidence?
speaker3: listen, we've got evidence harder than a diamond dildo. we have intelligence so deep and hard it would puncture your kidneys.there's an informant, `ice man', ok? the stuff he's giving us? it'll make your blood run cold. and clot. your insides will turn to black pudding. ...now, certain box-lickers are sitting on it. but you're going to see it, because the pm regards you as a key player now. judy's mobile goes.
speaker4: judy molloy? ten minutes. thanks. prime minister wants to speak to you in ten minutes, simon. he want you to go the
speaker5: malcolm's heading out.
speaker3: see- you're a-list now. you're a kennedy. in the vip lounge, with the gold card and the complimentary drinks and the hard-on.
speaker2: show me the evidence, malcolm, that's my bottom line.
speaker4: so do you still want...nods and winks?

speaker1: cheers everyone. here's to surviving another day. 
speaker2: my theory is malcolm built jamie in a lab out of bits of old psychopath.
speaker3: hello ladies.
speaker4: and gentleman.
speaker3: hello ladies. i'm just going to -
speaker1: oh. lovely. i think we could have another bottle of sancerre.
speaker3: great.
speaker4: if you can afford it.
speaker2: if you can get served at the bar.
speaker4: hell. here we go again. arsehole.
speaker1: you're kidding? what's it say? woah!
speaker2: what a twat. what are you doing? are you replying?

speaker1: yeah i wouldn't want to meet jamie in a dark alley. or a bright alley. the whole thing of just being in an alley with him would be scary, regardless of the lighting. 
speaker2: you've got a text.
speaker1: oh yeah. it's just rob about football.
speaker2: so, liza. you shagged her?
speaker1: what? no.
speaker2: did you know my flakey boyfriend has been getting his flakey end away?
speaker3: i don't know anything about his flakey end.
speaker1: could we not talk about accusations and, health issues, in the pub?
speaker3: i should go.
speaker2: you haven't finished your drink.
speaker3: no. i mainly have.
speaker2: why did you do it?
speaker1: i don't know, it was a weird, intense time over there. it was...maybe, subconsciously, i don't know, it was a kind of last ditch attempt to stop this, awful...war.

speaker1: that's classic. that's definitely going in the memoirs. 
speaker2: you had because of the war?
speaker3: in the broad sense. sorry, can you stop doing that? can we go somewhere where they're aren't enormous children eating snacks?
speaker4: i should go.
speaker2: actually i'll go.
speaker1: shall we stay?
speaker4: i should go. i've got a long walk ahead of me. but that'll keep me going.

speaker1: what the is he doing here? 
speaker2: what?! what the are you doing here?
speaker1: well i live here.
speaker2: no you don't actually. i'll go make that tea.
speaker1: well, if i'm leaving, i'm taking my brie.
speaker1: page 89

speaker1: and the port. and my nando's peri-peri sauce. 
speaker2: don't forget your hydrocortisone.
speaker3: you putting this in your memoirs as well?
speaker4: i should go.
speaker2: no, it's fine. stay.

speaker1: where's my needlecord jacket? 
speaker2: your geography teacher's jacket?
speaker3: that's not how you fold.
speaker1: michael, this is one of the more humiliating moments of my life. i can pack a bag.
speaker3: the key to travelling is packing.
speaker1: i'm not going to fiji michael, i'm being chucked out of my house.
speaker3: it'll save time the other end.
speaker1: there is no other end.

speaker1: has she got big 
speaker2: massive. enormous. you can see them on google earth. they've got their own postcode.
speaker2: see you then.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: look, suzy, this is probably going to sound odd under the circumstances.
speaker1: quickie?
speaker2: no. thank you. but no. it's about liza.
speaker1: oh good tell me more, tell me more about her
speaker2: listen, suze, liza wrote a paper, pwip- pip. i think, if it got leaked, it could stop the war.
speaker3: good tactic. get earnest. i tried that with the wife. didn't work.
speaker1: you are such a coward, you know that? and this is what? a make up leak?
speaker2: does such a thing exist?

speaker1: toby, take your rubbish clothes and your back issues of mojo, your flute, and your eighth of dope and leave me the alone. 
speaker2: should i resign? i've floated that i might, when i thought i wouldn't, so it'll look convincing if i did. i mean, do you think, is it braver to just resign and say, `no, no war'?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: or is it actually braver to say, `i don't agree, but i'm going to grit my teeth and get on with it?' is the really brave thing actually doing what you don't believe?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: though -- maybe? what's brave about doing the `right thing'? nothing. doing the wrong thing is braver. in a way. i mean, you know, wars sometimes work. the war of independence, that worked. for the americans. second world war. that was a good idea. i mean not a good idea but ...
speaker2: i know what you mean. and the crimean war -- we got nurses out of that.
speaker4: nurses are good.
speaker2: exactly. so...right. exactly.
speaker3: so you're not resigning?

speaker1: in the motorcade. let's get a car without judy. 
speaker2: you want hookers? you like hooky fucky?
speaker1: i want to talk about the resigning thing.
speaker2: still?
speaker1: but with you and not her. she has this air of moral righteousness that inhibits you from... saying anything morally wrong.

speaker1: so. the wires are all currently reporting that you're going to resign from government over the war. 
speaker2: what? that wasn't supposed to get outside.
speaker1: yeah well it is outside. it's lurking outside like a big hairy at a coach station.
speaker1: do you know, if i could i'd punch you into total paralysis.

speaker1: hello, gentlemen, sir jonathan tutt. this is it. the united nations. 
speaker2: it's all a bit `blurrrgh', isn't it?
speaker3: it could do with a few more scatter cushions and a bit less asbestos.
speaker1: i don't know what you were expecting -- jacobean panelling perhaps, arabesques of stonework tracery... great fountains...
speaker4: it's a shithole. it looks like a hospice for robots. they pass a big office.
speaker1: linton barwick is in there. karen clark is there. you're right here.
speaker1: if you need anything, just whistle. you know how to whistle don't you malcolm? you just put your lips together and blow.
speaker1: right. i'm off upstairs to the informal delegates' reception. hope there's nibbles, i'm ravenous.
speaker4: nibbles? who still says nibbles?
speaker5: the nibbles, what was with the tension? malcolm gets a call.

speaker1: jamie. hello? 
speaker1: no signal down here. i'd be better off in an internet cafe in kircoddy.
speaker2: okay, your phone's off, which means you've been shot dead by a fat american, but there's been a fucktastrophe. someone's leaked liza weld's pwip pip paper to the bbc. i reckon it'll be on the six o'clock news here, one o'clock your time, so it's going to fist your vote apart. missing you loads, pwip-pip, toodle-oo!

speaker1: do not move from this spot or i'll stab you. 
speaker2: hm?
speaker1: was it you?
speaker3: no, what? no.
speaker1: but you know what i'm talking about?
speaker3: no, but whatever it was i didn't do it.
speaker1: was it you, the-baby-from-eraserhead?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: so it must have been you woman from the crying game?
speaker5: it wasn't me. you've really got it in for me haven't you?
speaker1: someone's dropped a in the noodles and i reckon it was you.
speaker5: we've done this all before. you accused me of leaking last time and it wasn't me.
speaker1: yeah well i know you didn't leak last time. but what i reckon is you got so pissy about being accused, you leaked this time.
speaker4: yeah. yeah, that does sound possible.
speaker5: look springer spaniel, keep your little wet nose out alright?

speaker1: i'm just saying psychologically speaking that sounds plausible - that you might build up a resentment and then pay it off in some underhand way. that's just something i've observed. 
speaker2: come on, baldermort, i need a word.
speaker1: sorry about that - it's just ... something i've observed.
speaker3: wanker. it's okay. it's fine. it's probably just the stress of this awful, awful war.
speaker2: we're in a new reality now and you've got to speed things up.
speaker4: what things? speed up what?
speaker2: the debate. it needs to start at eleven o'clock, not one thirty.
speaker4: hehe. can i perhaps briefly explain the way the process works? and why that isn't possible? you see through that door there are a number of secretariats that are currently doing what we call the washing up now...
speaker2: just do it, fishlips. otherwise you'll find yourself in some medieval warzone in the caucasus with your in the air, trying to persuade a group of men in balaclavas that sustained sexual violence is not the way forward.

speaker1: no, it can't be. i mean it could be done, it just can't. 
speaker2: then i'll do it. they're through there?
speaker1: yes but you can't go in, that would be a serious breach of protocol ...
speaker2: then you do it. get in there.
speaker1: i'm not dancing with you malcolm.
speaker2: i'm leading, look follow my lead.
speaker1: you're not dancing me into the secretariat!
speaker2: where's the intel? are you sure you're working as hard as me? cos i'm sweating spinal fluid here. i'm a husk.
speaker3: you get everything you need?
speaker2: oh yeah i think so. thanks. oh, whoa whoa whoa just a wee moment general flintstone. was it you? did you leak pwip pip? i know you can't fire a gun, but can you use a fax?
speaker3: no, see, because i'm upfront about what i do. i don't creep around like some gay mercenary doing other people's dirty work. page 98

speaker1: i'm doing my own work. i'm doing my job. 
speaker2: uh-hu. i think you're doing linton's dirty work. i think you're his english and if i walked into your hotel room tonight i'd find you on all fours in fishnets and him hanging out the back of you.
speaker1: oooo. tough talk from the armchair general. what you going to do? throw a cushion at me? put your feet up on a and go back to sleep why don't you?
speaker3: listen, tucker, you may be some scary poodlefucker back in london, but here? you know what you look like? a squeezed you got a blue vein running all the way up to your temple there. that's where i'd put the bullet. but i'd stand well back. you look like you'd be a squirter.
speaker1: have you ever even killed anybody?
speaker3: yep.
speaker1: falling asleep on someone doesn't count.
speaker3: i've done my share. how many you kill, drip?
speaker1: personally, i prefer maiming.
speaker3: go on, tough guy, take a swing at me. i'll smack you so hard you'll be teeth.
speaker1: go ahead. i can see the headlines now. 'peace-loving general starts fight in un, swiss intervene'. i don't know, i'm no expert on spin but could that hurt your career?

speaker1: there it is. simon's going. everyone's saying he's going. 
speaker2: simon! there he is! simon. this is great i wasn't sure you had the nerve. you're resigning?
speaker3: ah okay. they're not running with that? i have not said that.
speaker2: you're not resigning?
speaker1: you're still playing the hawk?
speaker3: it's much subtler than that. it's nuanced. i'm playing a much cleverer game than that. i'm a fake hawk.

speaker1: i'm sorry? 
speaker2: fake hawk.
speaker1: you're a fake hawk? you're a you're not a fake are you. karen and miller go into a confab.
speaker3: we could just tell the press he's going anyway. say he's confirmed to us that he's resigning.
speaker2: sorry?
speaker1: i second that.
speaker2: what? you can't.
speaker1: do we announce it before or after the vote?
speaker3: during. then he can't do anything about it.
speaker1: great. that's decided then.
speaker2: no. no it's not. i'm - me. you're not me. i decide about all the main things about me, okay? not you. me.
speaker1: no. no simon. i'm afraid not. not on this one. this is too big for you.
speaker3: be realistic. you're being used. we all are. the one thing we can do now to influence things is to resign. sacrifice ourselves. that's our only weapon.

speaker1: like a suicide bomber? 
speaker2: no, not like a suicide bomber. a suicide bomber gets to make a decision.

speaker1: listen, i'm really sorry about suzy and the texting and ... 
speaker2: good. thanks. do you have figures there for cfe minimum requirements?
speaker1: er?
speaker2: conventional forces in europe.
speaker1: sure. i'll just dig that out. look it was a very special evening for me and ...
speaker2: sorry? what? you're mumbling.
speaker1: i just wandered if tonight when all this is over we couldn't - you know. you're single. i'm single now. you're a woman. i'm not.
speaker2: you want to have again?
speaker1: it's not a terrible idea is it? one more. for the gipper?
speaker2: you know what a douchbag is toby? you're a douchbag on wheels. page 102

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: i'm thinking of becoming a suicide bomber.
speaker1: that's certainly a very powerful way of getting your point across.
speaker2: would you like a mint?
speaker1: i'm okay thanks. are you thinking to overdose on mints? because... simon eats a mint.
speaker2: do you like me judy?
speaker1: you're my boss.
speaker2: yeah, but do you actually like me.
speaker1: sure. look, i'll leave you to your thoughts.

speaker1: was it you? 
speaker2: sorry?
speaker1: not you. i know it wasn't you, you're too for your knighthood.
speaker1: was it you?
speaker3: was what me?
speaker1: was it you!? answer the question!
speaker2: she can't very well answer the question if you don't tell her what it is, can she?
speaker1: off to your room, count of cunty cristo, this is between me and her. you leaked liza weld's paper to the bbc.
speaker3: i didn't leak anything. i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: you're lying. you touched your nose. that's what's called a `tell'. you are lying.

speaker1: no i'm not. 
speaker2: `no i'm not.' that's a tell as well. classic. i know the leak came from here, from this fax machine here.
speaker2: this is what i'm doing to the machine. you see? this is how angry i am with the piece of office equipment which leaked this document, so can you imagine how angry i am with the person who did it? yeah? can you suzy?
speaker3: it was me.
speaker2: oh off. don't come over all spartacus now.
speaker3: i leaked it.
speaker2: what?
speaker2: okay for a start turn that row off. it's just vowels. listen to it. just subsidised foreign vowels. you only listen to that because it's bad form to actually wear a big hat that says "i went to private school".
speaker2: who did you leak it to?

speaker1: i just sent it. i thought it was important so i sent it through. 
speaker2: ok. see this fax machine? that's your career. i'm pretty sure it's let me just check . yeah, it is. plus, breach of official secrets, so that's swannee. maybe you can get a part time job in west end as a gentleman's fluffer. or whatever the they call it these days.
speaker1: well, you know -- better to go out with a bang...
speaker2: no, no. i will not allow this to be a bang. this will be a whimper, a tiny pathetic whimper like a puppy being by a big metal puppy-fucking machine. and they do exist, `cos my gran's got one.

speaker1: so we're down to the wire here, mr miracle worker, what have you got for me? 
speaker2: honestly? i haven't got it. we need more time.
speaker1: you haven't got it? can you delay the vote to give you time to get it?
speaker2: no. i've had the vote brought forward.
speaker3: just getting my mints.

speaker1: i am telling you to delay the vote and get me some new intel. now. 
speaker2: okay, quick reality check, j edgar hoover. i don't work for you. you don't tell me what to do.
speaker1: well firstly, don't raise your voice. this is a sacred space. you may not believe that, i may not believe that, but by it's a useful hypocrisy. and secondarily you do work for me. your prime minister instructed you to work for me.
speaker2: get your polos and off.
speaker1: the great malcolm tucker. one of your guys has leaked a paper, you can't do anything. we tell you to get intel, you can't do anything. i need the vote put back - you can't do anything. you, sir, are a useless piece of `s' star star `t'.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: we've just heard -- the wall's starting to collapse. a brick has fallen. that's the news i'm getting. more to follow. both news and bricks.
speaker1: why don't you deal with that tucker? a wall is falling down, that's more your level. i can see you with your shirt off and a wheelbarrow whistling a happy song. linton walks out.

speaker1: you've been working for him? 
speaker2: it's complicated, okay? i've been juggling a number of responsibilities.
speaker1: okay, well, right, after the vote, i resign.
speaker2: look. it's too late now. resigning. it's not worth it. the horse has bolted. it's out there getting shot now.
speaker1: i'll see you later, malcolm.
speaker2: if you repeat this to anyone i will pull your leg off, break it in two and stab you to death with your broken shin bone. now go away. toby leaves.

speaker1: suzy, how's it going? has jamie been round? right... 
speaker2: this is you, isn't it?
speaker1: this is me, yes. and that's you. i thought we had this worked out.
speaker1: page 108

speaker1: sorry suze i've got an incoming call, i'll ring back for a further bollocking. 
speaker2: i've got something big lined up and you better not have it up for me.
speaker3: hello? oh hi, paul. how's it going? no, yes, i know the wall is collapsing. i'm as frustrated as you are mate. the vice president starts to walk by. toby sees him, wants to shake his hand.
speaker3: look, could i call you back paul? it's just the vice president's ... i couldn't? no, okay, let's keep talking...

speaker1: right, frank and nancy sinatra. i've got good news. you're not fired. that's great news, isn't it? 
speaker2: that sounds ominous.
speaker1: he's delighted. we want to put liza weld's pwip pip out there, properly. in the public domain. we just have to refine it a bit.
speaker3: refine it?
speaker1: take out the cons, change the name of the main informant.
speaker2: that's a complete fabrication.

speaker1: changing his name doesn't make a difference. the main source in there he's not really called ice man, is he? "mr and mrs man, you've got a son, ice." so we change it, to another name. who's the with the fiddle? the fiddlefuck. 
speaker2: this is debussy, if that's what you mean.
speaker1: okay, we'll call him debussy.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and then you'll make a couple of other changes. it'll mean your fingerprints are on it, mikey, but it's the only way to save your job, you leaky
speaker2: it wasn't me, jamie, alright? it wasn't me. don't make me do this. someone else must have come in and used the fax machine.
speaker1: what? oh, that thing about your fax? don't worry about that. i made that up. the paper was sent by e-mail. it;s just, the fax machine was there and it;s easier to kick.
speaker1: come on deuce bigalow. you're coming with me.

speaker1: yeah, bbc newsdesk please. malcolm tucker. ben? hi, how you doing? yeah, well, i'm hearing you're preparing a story that we might not like. 
speaker1: i just want to say please, this garden wall story, please don't run with it. simon foster's constituency-office wall? you've got that haven't you? i haven't let the cat out of the bag? look, my reputation will be in tatters if you run with... and he's gone. boo hoo. i've got a hard on.
speaker2: can we stop running because my hands are really rather badly burned now. they stop.
speaker1: i know it was you who leaked linton's war committee.
speaker2: oh? right. it wasn't?
speaker1: are you telling me it wasn't you? is that your proposition? is that want you want to say if i ask them to fly you to diego garcia and slip a hood over your head and carry out a cavity search?
speaker2: i don't actually recall. it was a busy time.
speaker1: that's more like it. so...you are now on probation. okay?
speaker1: page 111

speaker1: i am giving you a probationary period, which will last from today...until the end of recorded time. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: you're my guy now. i own you now. you're my kunte kinte. go and get your laptop. toby goes.
speaker3: ah, ambassador -- with your big baldy head you are spoiling us.
speaker4: good, i've been looking for you. i needed to tell you that by a huge personal effort -- huge --i have managed to bring the vote forward by an hour and a half.
speaker3: great. i need it delayed now.
speaker4: very funny. that is funny.
speaker3: by an hour, at least. although i guess two and a half hours now, as you've brought it forward.
speaker4: no, i'm sorry i'm very sorry but i won't humiliate myself again.
speaker3: you do what i say or you can go and see if belize are looking for a new ambassador but with a broken nose, one bollock, and a half-chewed cock.

speaker1: this is nice isn't it? cosy. away from prying eyes. 
speaker2: so what's this, your political wet-room? jamie's phone goes.

speaker1: is it up, have you got it up? 
speaker2: yeah it's all fine.
speaker1: okay, go to page nine, highlight that.
speaker2: go to page nine.
speaker1: highlight from that page to the end of the document.
speaker2: do you mean select?
speaker1: i don't know i don't use these things.
speaker2: select page nine to the end of the document.

speaker1: the caveats? 
speaker2: is it highlighted?
speaker3: you mean selected, yeah it's selected.
speaker2: okay, right, standby ... delete!
speaker3: delete!
speaker1: you can't just delete the arguments against the war.
speaker3: oh hang on malc. michael's stopped moving. i think he's crashed.
speaker2: have you tried hitting him? give him a thump, that usually works.
speaker3: hang on, i think i might be able to use manual over-ride.
speaker3: no, it's okay. it's working again.
speaker2: great. now attach that to email.

speaker1: attach that to an email. 
speaker2: right, let's find a printer. the japanese, they'll have one. they've got everything.
speaker2: get me a blue folder.
speaker3: where from?
speaker2: i don't know. do i look like i've ever set foot in a stationary cupboard? i do my in five star hotels. now go and find me a blue folder. pronto. toby runs off.
speaker2: the intelligence your guys couldn't find? i think you owe me a massive, grovelling apology.
speaker4: what, you did your job? eventually? congratulations. maybe they'll give you a knighthood.
speaker2: it's been a pleasure working with you. you know, i've met some psychos in my time, but none as boring as you. oh sorry, that's right. you disapprove of swearing. a boring star star malc hands over the folder and walks out.

speaker1: welcome aboard liza. by the way, congratulations on pwip pip. excellent work. 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i don't know. i haven't read it personally. no time. but it certainly raised your profile.
speaker2: no. that old thing? that was like a thousand years ago. more maybe.
speaker1: terrific. so, i'll keep this brief and to the point. we go in, we make our case using the new british intelligence from their source `debussy', we win the argument, we get the out.

speaker1: resolution 5977 is passed. 
speaker2: yup. that's that then.
speaker3: "that's that then"? that's your quote for the ages is it? page 116

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: 'and i remember the moment war was declared. i turned to the minister and he said "that's that, then. anyone want a mint?".
speaker1: off, toby.

speaker1: we did it bob! 
speaker2: yes sir! there were moments when it was a little hairy ...
speaker1: no there weren't, no.

speaker1: i've been thinking karen. this has been the hardest decision of my political life. i'm not resigning. 
speaker2: what the george. seriously? you said that the war was intolerable and we'd go together.
speaker1: it is - it is intolerable. i still agree with myself about that. but i've got to tolerate it. my loyalty is with the kids. at the end of the day i'm a soldier.
speaker2: you're not a soldier.
speaker1: look at the uniform, karen. i'm not a pastry chef. i have military commendations on my chest, not a little label saying my name is george.
speaker2: you're a politician. you live on canapes and white wine and you have three anecdotes you wheel out at every party and you scour the national papers for mentions of your name. you're a politician.
speaker1: i'm still a soldier.
speaker2: when was the last time you shot a guy?
speaker1: what, if i haven't shot a guy in 15 years then i'm not a soldier? city hall don't insist i bring along a bullet- ridden corpse every five years to renew my soldier licence.
speaker2: you know this is an unnecessary war. it's a war you don't believe in. show me some balls, george.
speaker1: i know i've got balls, i don't need to show them to you.

speaker1: oh sure, it just so happens they're sitting pretty in a pair of egyptian cotton ralph lauren shorts on a government salary. 
speaker2: don't talk about my that way. my have been around. my have got balls.
speaker1: come on chad, let's leave the general and his over-stuffed scrotum. we're going to draft our resignation announcements. karen turns away from him.
speaker3: er, i might, stay with the general actually karen, if that's okay? if he's staying i might stay with him and see what assistance i can furnish.
speaker1: okay. general shrek and his faithful talking donkey.
speaker2: this takes karen.
speaker3: you've got sir. anyone can see you've got big balls. they're two-thirds of a snowman.
speaker2: get the away from me.
speaker3: okay. this was not the plan.
speaker4: no, you're right. i am a piss-brain. that's the perfect word, mr michaelson. your mother came up with it? well congratulate her from me. i am a piss- brain for letting this happen.

speaker1: simon, look, mate. listen to me. you still don't need to resign. 
speaker2: no. i'm going to resign, malcolm. in a hour. you can't stop me now.
speaker3: boss?
speaker3: it's on the bbc news website -- partial collapse of the wall. mrs michaelson's greenhouse has a smashed pane. the bbc had a crew down there.
speaker2: and that's news. ridiculous, isn't it?
speaker1: it's nor ridiculous. you're fired.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the wall. it's just not tolerable.
speaker2: it's just a wall.
speaker1: look at this. give me the paper. he's my new boy. i'm just breaking him in.
speaker3: here.

speaker1: the telegraph has a cartoon of you crushed underneath the great wall of china, suggesting you are the only political fuck-up visible from space. look at this. no one could survive this. the pm is very clear on this - you're sacked, over the wall. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you haven't even - spoken to the prime minister.
speaker1: yes i have.
speaker2: you haven't i've been right here.
speaker1: i have spoken to the prime minister. whether it has happened or not is irrelevant. it is true. as soon as i heard about the wall, i spoke to him and he decided you had to go.
speaker2: i'm not going quietly.
speaker1: yeah well if you try to turn this into some anti-war protest, you can expect your `mountain of conflict' soundbite to be everywhere from ringtones to a dance mix on youtube. i will marshall all the forces of media darkness to hound you to an assisted suicide.
speaker1: right, rumpleforeskin's give me your laptop, so -- shall we draft your `dear prime minister, just a quick note to say thanks for sacking me' letter?

speaker1: hi. general? look i realise this is a slightly strange time to say this, but i just want to say how much i admire... 
speaker2: go yoursefl, frodo.
speaker1: great. lovely

speaker1: well alan, i have been balled out by linton for allowing i heart huckabees on to the troops dvd roster. you know the phrase, "i'm too old for this well, i'm too young for this 
speaker1: page 122

speaker1: ah, here they are. minister. elizabeth. 
speaker2: thanks malcolm. looking forward to it. war seems to be going `great guns' at the moment.
speaker1: ah, cheeky! let me take you out for an expensive lunch, roast swan and all the trimmings, and i'll bring you up to speed on the whole middle east situation.
speaker2: are you twisting my arm already?
speaker1: aye, but in a friendly, non-breaky way. watch your step there. there's still blood on the deck.
speaker3: hi i'm danny. dan. i'm elizabeth's chief advisor.
speaker4: judy molloy. senior press -
speaker3: have i got a desk?
speaker4: yes, it's that one there.

