speaker1: black. we hear the soft voice of frances farmer. 
speaker2: no one ever came up to me and said, 'you're a fool. there isn't such a thing as somebody's been stuffing you.'

speaker1: it wasn't a murder. i think just died of old age. and when i realized he wasn't any more, it didn't shock me. it seemed natural and right. 
speaker1: and yet i began to wonder what the minister meant when he said, 'god, the father, sees even the smallest sparrow fall. he watches over all his children.' that jumbled it all up for me.

speaker1: it usually worked. became a superfather that couldn't spank me. but if i wanted a thing badly enough, he arranged it. 
speaker1: but if loved all of his children equally, why did he bother about my red hat and let other people lose their fathers and mothers for always?
speaker2: bye, baby.
speaker1: see you next weekend, dad.
speaker1: i began to see that he didn't have much to do about hats or people dying or anything. they happened whether he wanted them to or not, and he stayed in heaven and pretended not to notice.

speaker1: i wondered a little why was such a useless thing. it seemed a waste of time to have him. after that he became less and less, until he was... nothingness. 
speaker1: i felt rather proud that i had found the truth myself, without help from anyone. it puzzled me that other people hadn't found out, too. was gone. we had reached past him. why couldn't they see it? it still puzzles me.
speaker2: you're going straight to hell, frances farmer!

speaker1: and do you think it's radical for a man to have a job and feed a family? 
speaker2: no!
speaker1: is it radical for you to have a hand in shaping your future, and the future of your children?
speaker2: no!
speaker1: is it radical for the wealth of this country to be turned back to the people who built the country?
speaker2: no! no!
speaker1: good! because, brothers, that's you!

speaker1: seattle is in the news again as a high school junior wins a national competition and a hundred dollar prize with an essay denying 
speaker1: this prompts civic officials to charge that left-wing politicians are encouraging atheism in the city's schools. miss frances farmer was unavailable for comment, but her mother lillian --
speaker1: farmer, a well-known local dietician, stepped to her daughter's defense.
speaker2: frances has not turned her back on the lord, they're just having a momentary difference of opinion. what child hasn't questioned the lord's mysteries in order to better understand them? to paraphrase mr. voltaire, i may not agree with what she says, but i'll defend to the death her right to say it. freedom of speech, unlike in the dark countries to the east, still lives in america! and in my home. among the audience in the cinema, we see frances and her father. frances slinks down in her seat until she's hidden from sight.

speaker1: hi emma. emma looks away quickly, returns to her play. 
speaker1: bye emma.
speaker2: hey!
speaker3: c'mere. i wanna talk to you.
speaker3: momma told ya not to speak to strangers, huh? hey!
speaker1: don't touch me.
speaker3: i'm not gonna hurt you. i just wanna talk.
speaker1: okay then...
speaker3: well... you're causin' trouble, you know that?
speaker1: i'm causing trouble?! you're a pain in the butt! you newshounds've been after me and my folks ever since i won that contest. i'm just sixteen, you know? who the cares what i think?
speaker3: not me. but other people seem to.
speaker1: yeah. well if you didn't put it in the papers -- nobody'd even know about it.
speaker3: now wait a minute, sweetie. do i look like a newshound to you?
speaker1: no... actually, you look more like a cop.
speaker3: that's rich. hey, if i was a cop, i'd be packing, right? you see a gun? go on, search me. pat me down.
speaker1: i'll... take your word for it. so who are you, then?
speaker3: harry york. i work for martoni kaminski, he's running for congress here.
speaker1: oh yeah! i saw you in the newsreel!
speaker3: yeah, well --
speaker1: you know, my dad's done some work for kaminski...
speaker3: now you're catchin' on. don't wanna get your daddy in hot water, do you?
speaker1: whattaya mean?
speaker3: well... see the papers've got us pegged as pinkos, then you come along, the friendly neighborhood atheist --
speaker1: but i'm not. the newspapers're --
speaker3: right again. you're no more an atheist than my man's a red, but what they're doin', see, they're addin' up their version of your ideas with their version of ours. could look bad for your daddy.
speaker1: yeah. could look bad for you and kaminski too, i guess.
speaker3: sure don't talk like you're sixteen.
speaker1: well aren't you the smoothie. now you're going to ask for my number, i suppose.
speaker3: i suppose not. gotta ask you this, though: for all our sakes, you better keep your trap shut.
speaker1: well... i'll give it a try, mr. york.
speaker3: harry.
speaker1: harry.
speaker3: bye.
speaker3: sure don't walk like sixteen, neither.

speaker1: these are perilous times. with the economic collapse comes hopelessness and desperation; and people turn to dangerous ideas -- 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: those of us who represent law and order must be vigilant. who's behind this, her mother?
speaker3: impossible. as her attorney, i've known her for years.
speaker1: what about the father, he's a little pink. maybe he wants to show our schools in a bad light, shift some support to kaminski and those jackals.
speaker3: he's no influence; he doesn't even live at home. no, i think frances wrote that essay with no mischief intended. it was her teacher who entered it in the competition.
speaker1: well, the publicity must stop. it's no good for seattle and no good for the country. keep an eye on this, will you, alma?
speaker3: of course, your honor.

speaker1: it always amazes me, lil, how you can whip up a hot, hearty meal out of thin air. 
speaker2: i can thank you for that. it was a hard-earned talent.
speaker2: bread?
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: when's the last time you saw a hundred dollars, ernest farmer?
speaker3: mama...
speaker2: i'm not hungry. you two just enjoy yourselves. after all, this is a celebration. she leaves. a long silence. they both glance slightly awkwardly at the check. frances takes it, folds it, and puts it in her pocket, out of sight.
speaker1: i'm... i'm really proud of you, frances.
speaker3: thanks, dad.
speaker1: an essay contest... a national contest. that's pretty impressive.
speaker3: i didn't have much to do with it.
speaker1: you wrote it, didn't you?
speaker3: yeah, i suppose... dad, who's harry york?
speaker1: well, harry york is a guy who... well, he does a lot of things. why do you ask?
speaker3: he talked to me today. told me to keep my mouth shut or i'd get everybody in trouble.
speaker1: yeah... well... it's possible. harry york and i both work for mr. kaminski right now, and... well... there are lots of folks in this country who never got a square break. that's the way of things, but mr. kaminski wants to change it, and when it comes to new ideas, the people in power get nervous.
speaker3: is kaminski a communist?
speaker1: no, no, no. all he wants to do is see the common man get a little representation.
speaker3: he's a socialist, then?

speaker1: the label's not important, francie. what's important is: this country's got nine million unemployed and something's gotta be done about it. besides: left-wing, right-wing, up- wing, down-wing... they don't mean much. all a label is usually is a way to call somebody a dirty name. 
speaker2: it's already started, dad... with me.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: and i can't understand how it can hurt to be honest, but the more i tried to explain -- lillian appears in the doorway. 
speaker2: don't listen to him, little sister. when you're proud of what you are, you don't refuse the label, understand?
speaker1: yes, ma.
speaker2: and you... should be proud. you won that contest and made a name for yourself.

speaker1: you're poisoning that child's mind. 
speaker2: i have a right to talk to her. she's my daughter, and she's beginning to understand why i've sacrificed so much in order to achieve...
speaker1: you've sacrificed?! if you'd practice law for decent folk instead of communists and indigents --
speaker2: they need help, lil. they pay me back in other ways.
speaker1: how? what do they do for you, kaminski and his friends? they're all anarchists! traitors!
speaker2: no, lil. it's just you can't understand their brand of patriotism.
speaker1: that's right. i can't understand a man who puts strangers over his family, a man who gives up a good career to become a shiftless inkhorn failure.
speaker2: i'm going back to the hotel.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: see you next weekend?
speaker1: as usual. everything as usual, mr. farmer. just give me my due.
speaker2: lillian... i'm more than willing to meet you halfway.
speaker1: don't make me sick. i'd sooner drown myself in puget sound.
speaker2: that's a thought, lil. that sure is a thought. he trudges back toward the house under frances' eye.
speaker3: are you all right, dear?
speaker1: i'm fine, perfectly fine.

speaker1: dad, please, don't leave early. just because of mama -- 
speaker2: francie, you'll learn that sometimes it's best to stay low and just walk away. he trudges out and down the walk.

speaker1: what can we do, we must live! we shall live, uncle vanya... 
speaker1: and then we shall rest, we shall rest. we shall hear the angels, we shall see the whole sky all diamonds, we shall see how all earthly evil, all our sufferings, are drowned in the mercy that will fill the whole world. and our life will grow peaceful, tender, sweet as a caress... poor, dear uncle vanya, you are crying... in your life you haven't known what joy was; but wait, uncle vanya, wait... we shall rest... we shall rest! curtains close. audience bursts into applause.
speaker2: not bad, farmer. not half bad.

speaker1: art is a constant struggle. some of you have the will but not the ability. for others, the opposite. i don't wish to be harsh, but only one of you on stage tonight combined the two... the front door opens. frances and chet enter. 
speaker1: on cue.
speaker2: i could really learn to hate her.
speaker3: stand in line.

speaker1: this is the answer: a subscription drive to "voice of action!" first prize is a trip to moscow! you could visit the art theatre, maybe even meet stanislavski! 
speaker2: but i'll never win that.
speaker1: yes, yes, it's all arranged. everyone's collecting subscriptions in your name. and the best part is: the trip returns you to new york.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: new york, frances! broadway! this is your chance! you belong on the stage!
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: hi, harry. did you see the play?
speaker3: you think i'd miss it?
speaker2: well? what'd you think?
speaker3: i just wanted to see how you looked.
speaker2: how'd i look?
speaker3: enh.
speaker2: don't be a rat, harry.
speaker3: you looked okay. joint's pretty dead. how 'bout i take you home?

speaker1: you really think so? 
speaker2: honest. when you were up there, you were really... there, know what i mean? everyone else looked stupid.
speaker1: i don't know... i did... feel different... alive.
speaker2: yeah, it's a gift. you gotta do something with it.
speaker1: yeah, but if i win this trip, mama'll kill me. she hates russians. i do want to go, though... to new york, especially... but i wanted to do it...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: quietly.
speaker2: you're not the quiet type, frances.
speaker2: you know, my old man was an inventor. spent his whole life down in the basement trying to design transcontinental underground railroads, stuff like that. well, i was supposed to be his partner. when i told him the smell of his workshop made me sick, i thought he was going to die right there.
speaker1: what happened to him?
speaker2: he retired to florida... made a killing in vending machines.
speaker2: i kick myself sometimes, but the thing is, i would have been miserable living his life.
speaker1: ...so you think i should go.
speaker2: sure. try this acting thing. you can make good money at it.
speaker1: i don't know, harry. i... i want so many...
speaker2: you don't know what you want.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: not in the long run, anyway.
speaker2: frances...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: well... don't you think it's up to me to...
speaker1: come on, harry. this is america, land of the free. i thought we might go skinny dipping. for starters.
speaker3: communists?! no daughter of mine is going to communist russia!
speaker1: you act like i'm a bomb-thrower, mama. it's just a trip.
speaker3: but they're using you!
speaker1: oh ma, they're not using me. it's just a chance to travel, see things. besides, it's the only way i can get to new york.
speaker3: i'll pay your way to new york. i'll work, i'll slave. i'll sell my vegetables to the truck farmers, or --
speaker1: oh, mama, don't you understand?
speaker1: i have to do this on my own. you see, i've learned your lesson very well. to do what i think is right and everyone else be
speaker3: i never taught you that!
speaker3: little sister, if you don't wise up soon, it's going to be out of my hands!
speaker1: it isn't in your hands, mama. it's my life.
speaker3: yes, but important people are concerned about this. judge hillier spoke to alma styles --
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker3: ...you will.
speaker1: what do i do, dad?
speaker4: you really want to go?
speaker1: of course.
speaker4: and you think it's worth all this?
speaker1: if i didn't, i wouldn't put you through it.
speaker4: ...then go.

speaker1: has your earlier denial of led you to communism? 
speaker2: i'm not a communist.
speaker3: but frances, you said --
speaker2: i said all countries are of cultural interest. besides, russia has the greatest theatre company in the world.
speaker3: better than any american company?
speaker1: what do you think of stalin?
speaker2: not much. ask me about stanislavski.
speaker3: who?
speaker4: help me save my daughter! save the children of america.
speaker5: repent, frances, repent!
speaker6: repent! repent!

speaker1: bless you, sister, bless you. here is a bible for solace... and this plant to remind you of the eternal seed in all of us... and finally, a flashlight to illuminate your path through darkest russia. 
speaker2: i love you, mama. i love you, dad.
speaker3: be careful, francie.
speaker4: frances, i'm warning you. i'm gonna throw myself beneath the wheels. i'll do it, frances. frances!
speaker5: what do you say now, mrs. farmer?

speaker1: one more time. 
speaker2: hobbies?
speaker3: oh, i swim some... play the piano badly... and i read like a fiend: i like history.
speaker2: no, no, people don't want that. now listen: you spend lots of time at the beach. you're crazy about dancing. and you're the kind of girl who's just a little in love with love. get it? now try again? hobbies?
speaker3: look, i...
speaker2: beach... dancing... in love with love.
speaker3: that's me.
speaker4: good morning, mr. bebe!
speaker5: who's this?
speaker4: frances farmer, contract player, six- month option.
speaker5: okay. good can't we show them off a little more?
speaker4: i guess so, sir.
speaker5: very fine bone structure.
speaker2: not much to work with. how's this: 'the most interesting thing about frances farmer is that her road to hollywood was 12,000 miles long. after winning a beauty contest, the first prize of which was a trip to europe...' she made some deal with the commies and went to moscow, but i'm not going to say that, am i?
speaker4: heavens no. go on.
speaker2: um... 'miss farmer returned to new york city and had a brief fling with the broadway stage before coming west to seek stardom.'
speaker4: 'brief fling?'
speaker2: well, actually she couldn't get hired, but lucky for her, some guy in our new york office saw her. she says soon as she gets a stake, she's going back. claire rolls her eyes. she's heard this before.

speaker1: did you get the check?... oh my it opened?!, what'd you think? 
speaker1: well, i hope i get bigger parts, they don't come much smaller.
speaker1: no, i'm fine. i just have water in my mouth.
speaker1: no, mama, i'm not changing my name. they can't actually make you, you know? most people don't realize that. oh dick...
speaker1: no, no, nothing's going on. i love you too, mama. give my love to dad. bye!
speaker1: okay, handsome. you win.

speaker1: kurt! 
speaker2: oh, angela! go with these trappers! they'll lead you safely down the mountain...
speaker1: but, kurt, i...
speaker2: no, no arguments. be my good girl and go. there's a forest, a burning forest, and you know what i have to do!
speaker1: oh, kurt!
speaker2: oh angela, my own... angela!
speaker1: i'm sorry... i'm sorry, let's go back.
speaker3: what the is that? what's she doing?
speaker4: that's talent, andy.
speaker3: oh.

speaker1: harry! harry-god-damn-york! a real person! 
speaker2: how ya doin', farmer?
speaker1: me? look at you! what're you doing in hollywood?
speaker2: came to get a tan.
speaker1: not bad. but come on, harry; what's the real reason?
speaker2: kaminski.
speaker1: yeah, i read about that. terrible business, suicide.
speaker2: since when do you believe the papers? they killed him, kid.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they killed him. they threw him out that window.
speaker1: oh no...
speaker2: eight stories.
speaker1: 
speaker2: yup. poor lay there on the sidewalk and he couldn't die. too much heart. he just didn't want to die.
speaker1: but... but why, harry...? why'd they do it?
speaker2: he wouldn't play ball. what can i tell ya... it's done. anyway, i didn't want to be next, so i skipped town; came down here to work for some big-wig. tail and nail job. i'm sort of a non-gentleman's non- gentleman. how d'ya like the camouflage?
speaker1: you c'mon, let's get out of here.
speaker1: not bad. it was slow at first, but i'm doing bits now.
speaker2: i always told ya, frances. you got real ability.
speaker1: i know what ability you're interested in.
speaker2: hey, i'm a man, aren't i? whattaya say we have dinner, then maybe head out to the beach, rub some of this tan off each other. for old time's sake.
speaker1: harry... i met someone.
speaker2: yeah? what is he -- muscleman? lifeguard?
speaker2: actor?
speaker2: good. then it's temporary. all actors are phonies.
speaker2: serious, huh?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: hey that's great, farmer, just great.

speaker1: these creases... i look like i just came from the laundry! i'm supposed to be hiding out in boxcars, sleeping on floors. 
speaker2: this is the suit we fitted on you, miss farmer.
speaker1: oh, i know that. but it could look more realistic, don't you think?
speaker2: it'll do. no one will notice.
speaker1: i'll notice.
speaker2: oh, mr. bebe, good morning.
speaker3: come along with me, fanny.
speaker1: that's frances. i'm not the cookbook.
speaker3: you see: we've got to change that name.

speaker1: i like your looks. you have the classical bone structure of the very great beauties... garbo, dietrich -- 
speaker2: thank you --
speaker1: i intend to make a great deal of money off you.
speaker1: since we have you on a seven year contract, i'm planning long-range. i'm going to loan you out to sam goldwyn to make a picture called "come and get it."
speaker2: really? that's a very good book. it'd make a terrific --
speaker1: never mind that. i'm concerned about you. your attitude.
speaker1: society is falling apart, miss farmer, and people have to buckle down, do their jobs. you see, i view myself as the henry ford of motion picture industry, and i can't have the fellow who puts on the wheels arguing with the man who installs head-lights, now can i?
speaker2: but i'm concerned with everything, mr. bebe.
speaker1: no, i'm concerned with everything.
speaker2: but i'm the one up there on the screen.
speaker1: that's right. you're an actress, miss farmer and your job is to act.

speaker1: i guess it's no secret that i'm proud. only twenty-one years old, and look at all she's done. as for her looks, i flatter myself that she gets them from me. 
speaker2: obviously.
speaker1: and not only has frances come home a star; she's also brought me this big handsome lug of a son-in-law!
speaker3: mr. farmer, what was your reaction when frances told you she had married...
speaker2: dwayne. dwayne steele.
speaker4: what...? oh. well, i was pleased, of course. richard... uh, dwayne, is a real gentleman.
speaker2: well, all i can say is: i feel like i've known these two for years!
speaker1: oh, dwayne! this is like a fairy tale!

speaker1: what'd he say? 
speaker2: let's go. we'll be late.

speaker1: there she is! 
speaker2: how does it feel to be back in seattle, frances?
speaker3: a little strange.
speaker4: isn't she gorgeous?
speaker5: this way.
speaker6: how's the movie, frances?
speaker3: it's okay.
speaker1: smile, little sister, smile.

speaker1: can you make some statement about seattle, how the city helped you, or the schools -- 
speaker2: well, the truth is the city had nothing to do with it. i was lucky. and what wasn't luck was hard work.
speaker1: oh.
speaker3: miss farmer, i can't tell you how proud i am to meet you.
speaker3: on behalf of the seattle ladies club, as a token of our vast admiration --
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker3: yes...?
speaker2: don't i know you?
speaker3: i don't believe so.
speaker2: sure. you shouted at me in the auditorium when i read my essay.
speaker3: no, my dear. you must be mistaken.
speaker2: oh
speaker4: i beg your pardon?

speaker1: ...it's one thing to marry the guy, but did you have to sleep with him? 
speaker1: i meant the other way around.
speaker2: well, the studio told me not to.
speaker1: is that why you did it?
speaker2: who ever thought they'd be right for once? harry... it's a zoo back there --
speaker1: you're telling me.
speaker2: dick... and my mother! she acts like she's on mars or something --
speaker1: well, she's back to earth now. they're all pretty huffed up about your leaving. i think you better go back, kid.
speaker2: forget it.
speaker2: you know, the funny thing is: it's not a great movie. i mean it could've been, but they screwed it up, gave it a happy ending. and all my friends, i know they're going to smile and say they loved it.
speaker1: if they say they love it, they'll probably love it. not everybody lies, you know?
speaker2: no, they don't, do they?
speaker1: frances, you're a movie star now. if you give them what they want, you can get anything.
speaker2: i don't have what they want, harry. harry, will you tell me something? how can i keep making movies when people in the streets are starving?
speaker1: some people starve, kid. until we can do something about it, they might as well see a movie. makes 'em feel better.
speaker2: but i don't want to be like that. i want to do something...
speaker1: what're you gonna do, waste your talent? why not use it to make something worthwhile. you can do that, you know?
speaker1: tell you what. let's ditch the limo. let me drive you up to that red carpet in my beat up chevy.
speaker2: the you will, harry york.
speaker1: come on, cinderella, your pumpkin awaits.
speaker2: bong... bong... bong...
speaker1: don't start, farmer.
speaker2: it's midnight, harry. my glittering raiments are dissolving.
speaker1: the chauffeur. he's watching.
speaker2: he deserves a show. he missed the movie.
speaker1: i'm serious, frances. this is important.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: a single glass slipper left glittering on the pearly sands. who was that girl, anyway?
speaker2: 'come and get it,' harry.
speaker1: hot

speaker1: hi frances, got a minute? 
speaker2: sure, claire. if you don't mind walking my way.
speaker1: well, i suppose i should just say it. it's your clothes.
speaker2: my clothes?
speaker1: yeah, i mean slacks... and work clothes... and that awful car --
speaker2: it's a perfectly good car. it runs.
speaker1: yes, but... really, i hate to sound... it's just that the public expects something different from its stars. people won't take you seriously.
speaker2: i don't care if my clothes are taken seriously. or my car.
speaker1: you know what i mean.
speaker2: uh-huh. you mean what if the public finds out i perspire? and wear slacks. and drive an old jalopy? what if they find out i'm a real person. oh no! say it ain't so! not a real person!

speaker1: morning, eddie. 
speaker2: that's not all, frances. mr. bebe is very concerned about your politics. he hears you've been donating money, speaking at rallies.
speaker1: yup. claire... please, please tell mr. bebe that if he worried half as much about his scripts as he does about my private life, we'd make a lot better movies.
speaker2: i'm sorry, frances. it's my job, you know?
speaker1: i know. 'this is a factory and we each have our jobs. the writer writes, the director directs, and the actress...'
speaker2: ...acts. i'll relay your message.
speaker3: yes, of course she'll make a statement on women's rights. call back tomorrow, okay?
speaker3: dwayne steele's residence.
speaker3: yes. what...? yes. yes, i'll tell her.
speaker3: you learn your lines?
speaker1: sort of.
speaker3: there've been some calls.
speaker1: who?
speaker3: well... about half an hour ago that woman from the talent department called, what's her name?
speaker1: claire?
speaker3: yeah, claire. she said she was fired. too bad, huh?
speaker1: fired?
speaker3: yeah. she said she delivered your message and that you'd understand. frances looks stricken.
speaker3: there was another call too. from your agent. he says your summer stock deal is all set. so you're going back east, huh?
speaker1: ...yes.
speaker3: without me.
speaker1: showdown.
speaker3: you weren't going to tell me, were you? just pack up and leave, is that it?
speaker1: dick, we need some time apart --
speaker3: hey, i'm not a complete fool, you know. i can see you're going sour on me, and when i try to do something about it, you turn your back and say it's nothing.
speaker1: dick, i can't even breathe here...
speaker3: dwayne! i'm dwayne now! and you well better get used to it!
speaker1: dick...
speaker3: i don't suppose it occurred to you that i might want to leave too, that i might want to do theatre? no, 'cause you don't want me along, do you? and the reason has nothing to do with summer stock.
speaker1: no?
speaker3: no. it's all about that night, isn't it?
speaker1: what night?
speaker3: the premiere. i never pressed you about it but it, you're gonna tell me right here and right now what happened and where the you were!
speaker1: you want his name?
speaker3: what...?
speaker1: my i think you're overplaying this a bit...?
speaker1: goodbye,

speaker1: the group is more than a theatre company. it's the embodiment of an ideal. our approach allows the actor to be an artist in the fullest sense, a creative individual and an instrument of change. you see -- 
speaker2: really, mr. clurman, you don't have to sell me.
speaker1: forgive my indulgence. seems we always lecture those who are on time for those who are tardy. the point is, mr. odets here has written a wonderful play. most of the roles are cast, but we haven't found our female lead...
speaker2: who is she?
speaker3: she's a tramp from newark.
speaker1: forgive me, but i think you'd be perfect for the part.
speaker3: miss farmer, for me this is not a play: it's an assault... a seduction... a plea for understanding. i think we live in a time when new art works should shoot bullets... and you make very attractive ammunition.
speaker2: and what's the title of this seduc... assault?
speaker3: 'golden boy.'

speaker1: hi. 
speaker1: you wanted to talk?
speaker2: you see that girl?
speaker2: that's who my play is about.
speaker1: that's me, clifford.
speaker2: i know, but i'm not seeing it. it's there, frances, the fire is there, but it's not coming through. you're lazy --
speaker1: i'm not!
speaker2: yes, you win them, you bring them into your heart, touch them, but you don't set them on fire!
speaker1: but i want to. i'm trying!
speaker2: i need an incendiary! an arsonist!
speaker1: then show me! that's what i'm here for, to learn, to grow!
speaker2: good. then it's very simple. you have to stop being afraid, frances. it's in you.

speaker1: i can see it. you just have to let it out. trust it. no one will quash you here, but it's still a fight, a struggle! being true to your art, being honest, is always a struggle! 
speaker2: ...not only an artist, but an instrument of change. we must look to the world around us, not content to observe, but to take an active hand in redressing its wrongs. we will not stand idly by as fascist bombs obliterate democracy. we contribute our profits, for if fascism is not stopped in spain, it will spread across europe, jeopardizing the struggle of civilized man to survive.
speaker3: the artist, to be vital, must be a soldier too.
speaker4: i'm not afraid of struggle, clifford.
speaker5: yes you are. we all are. the first step is to acknowledge our fear.
speaker5: face it! confess it! you're weak!
speaker4: i'm not!
speaker5: you're afraid!
speaker4: i'm not!
speaker5: you don't want to show your whole soul -- ugly, mis-shapen, and pitiful -- you don't want to show it --
speaker4: it, clifford, will you shut up! i tell you, i want to give these things! i want to give them to the audience, and i can give them, i will give them, so shut up! she is seething. gorgeous. alive.
speaker5: good, good. give them that.
speaker4: what?

speaker1: madam...? 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: oh my frances, i'm such a cad. i can't go through with this. my wife is in europe, but this is her house... her bedroom. i can't ask you to...
speaker2: oh well. i guess i better leave then.
speaker1: okay, but come here first.
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: come here. i want to show you something.

speaker1: and on top of her political activities, now she's got a lawyer. she wants out of her contract, mr. bebe. she says she's through with motion pictures. 
speaker2: i'm sure it wasn't me, it wasn't me...
speaker1: excuse me, sir?
speaker2: i don't know who she to get where she is, but i don't think it was me.
speaker1: well... you could always dump her, mr. bebe. teach her a lesson. there are a million beautiful girls out there who don't give a about politics.
speaker2: that's not the point. frances farmer has the world by the because of this studio, and now she thinks she can waltz off without a thank you. no. no, that young lady has a contract, and she's going to honor it.
speaker1: oh. i mean, good.
speaker2: i think it's time to take the gloves off. get me some reporters. particularly louella parsons!

speaker1: miss farmer... i've never done this before... but... i had to tell ya' you're great! 
speaker2: thank you very much. i'm glad you liked the play.
speaker1: i'm really sad it's closing. now what am i gonna do on tuesday nights?
speaker2: you can always come see it in london.
speaker1: only if you were in it. are you?
speaker2: i wouldn't miss it.
speaker1: boy, i'd love to... but i'm going to hollywood.
speaker2: are you an actor?
speaker1: yes!... well, okay, i'm still in school. but as soon as i graduate... california, here i come!
speaker2: are you really serious? about acting?
speaker1: why... yes.
speaker2: then don't go to hollywood.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i'm telling you straight, if you have any serious ambitions, stay clear of the place. it'll crush you.
speaker1: you sound as if you hate it.
speaker2: no, i don't hate it.
speaker1: aren't you ever going back?
speaker2: ...not if i can help it.
speaker1: gosh! you'll break a lot of hearts.
speaker2: they'll mend.
speaker1: what about your husband?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: will you be getting back together? when you quit hollywood, i mean.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: is it true you're getting a divorce? comrade?
speaker2: why, you... you little bastard!
speaker1: thanks for our chat, miss farmer. be seeing you.
speaker2: just one minute...
speaker1: you're wasting your time, lady. nothing's off the record with me.

speaker1: how'd it go? 
speaker2: 'but how do i know you love me?'
speaker1: your big speech?
speaker2: 'how do i know it's true? you'll get to be the champ. they'll all want you, all the girls! but i don't care. i've been undersea a long time. when they'd put their hands on me i used to say, "this isn't it! this isn't what i mean!" it's been a mysterious world for me! but joe, i think you're it! i don't know why, i think you're it. take me home with you.'
speaker1: i already have.
speaker2: how's it sound?
speaker1: the speech? real good.
speaker2: you think i got it?
speaker1: you got it.
speaker2: yeah. yeah, tonight i think i got it.

speaker1: hello, harold. 
speaker2: frances.
speaker1: where's clifford?
speaker2: he's not here.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: bourbon?
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: i hear you're meeting with the studio lawyers to get out of your contract.
speaker1: that's right. i don't want them breathing down my neck while we're in london.
speaker2: well... well, you see, that's the point. you won't be opening in london.
speaker1: you don't think i'm good enough?
speaker2: what?! good lord no, it's just... it's money. we needed backing and... well, we found it.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: an actress.
speaker1: a rich actress.
speaker2: yes. that's the deal. she plays lorna.
speaker1: but... but wait a minute. we're supposed to be different, right? clifford says... this theatre is supposed to be different! and this play... this play is all about what greed and money do to people!
speaker2: i know, but --
speaker1: what does clifford say?
speaker2: right now we have to be practical.
speaker1: does clifford even know? you didn't tell him, did you? i'm gonna tell him. where is he?
speaker2: he knows, frances.
speaker2: he approved it.
speaker2: i'm very sorry, but... well, hollywood wants you back, right?
speaker1: prick!

speaker1: of course it can be done, "mr. jones," but it's how you do it. there's a way to pay off l.a. cops and a way to get yourself arrested. first you gotta know who to approach -- a man at one of the phones looks up, calls. 
speaker2: you harry york?

speaker1: harry? harry, where are you?! 
speaker2: frances, how'd you find me?
speaker1: i called your office! i want you to kill him, harry. you'll do that for me, won't you? i loved him, i loved him... that bastard.

speaker1: calm down, frances. 
speaker2: don't tell me what to do, just give me his head on a platter!

speaker1: two lines! two lines! 'my wife returns from europe tomorrow. i can't see you any more.' just like that! 
speaker2: frances...
speaker1: harry, i hate being in love. i don't ever want to be in love again. i just hate it!

speaker1: how was that? 
speaker2: good, good. one more time.
speaker3: for sake... why?
speaker2: because we want to get it perfect... just the right combination of fury and confusion. you can understand that, can't you, miss farmer? we're serious artists here, right? right.
speaker3: look, mr. bebe, you can hold me to my contract, but you can't break me. i'm back, and i'm gonna make the best of it.
speaker4: i'd like nothing better.

speaker1: well... come on. 
speaker2: this is a mistake. no. this is a disaster.
speaker1: come on, it's just what you need! let everyone see you. talk to them, live it up!
speaker2: but we've been at it since six this morning. at least you could've let me go home and change.
speaker1: look, frances, i didn't want this job. think i'm crazy? but you begged me: improve your image. so please... lemme try, huh?
speaker2: you're right. i'm sorry. okay, let's go get 'em.
speaker1: here, take a few of these. studio makes 'em in the basement. they keep the fat off.
speaker2: so not only am i a troublesome but i'm fat too?
speaker1: come on. they make you feel nice and peppy.

speaker1: hi! bob barnes! looks like a swell party! 
speaker2: frances!
speaker3: who's here?
speaker2: the usual vermin, i'm afraid. barnes tries to pull frances inside.
speaker3: get me a drink.
speaker3: hi everybody.
speaker4: so nice to have you back, frances.
speaker3: connie, can i use the upstairs bathroom?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker1: hi.

speaker1: you wouldn't believe the offers! just piling in. i mean piling. some of the best scripts i've read in years! 
speaker2: yes? my employer will be glad to hear that.
speaker1: louella? is she here?
speaker2: how could you miss her?
speaker1: louella's here and i'm talking to you?

speaker1: frances? oh no. 
speaker2: refill my drink, will you, bob?
speaker1: what're you doing?
speaker2: putting on my armor.
speaker1: come on, frances. louella parsons is here. she wants to talk to you, help you out.
speaker2: louella... didn't she call me a spoiled little
speaker1: come on, she's an important columnist! what's the matter? i thought you wanted these people to forgive you.
speaker2: 'forgive'...? for what?
speaker1: i'm sorry... that was an unfortunate choice of words.
speaker2: you're not kidding. get me a refill, bob. i'll be down in a minute.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: gee, awful good to see ya again, miss farmer.
speaker2: my employer would like to know something very important: is it true your friend clifford sleeps in the nude?
speaker1: you seem like an intelligent young man.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: can't you find a more dignified way to make a living?

speaker1: okay... 
speaker1: hey, where's the fire, sister?
speaker2: in my eyes, officer.
speaker1: cool off, beautiful. didn't you see the sign says "dimout zone?" there's a war on, you know?
speaker2: come on. you're seriously trying to tell me the japs can't find los angeles without my headlights?
speaker1: i didn't make the law, lady. i just enforce it.
speaker2: you bore me.
speaker2: don't touch me!
speaker1: hey!
speaker1: santa monica, this is motor six-sixty- six. i got a live one here.

speaker1: got any ginger beer? 
speaker2: take a look.
speaker2: how the do you find me anyway?
speaker1: animal magnetism! no ginger beer. what's this red stuff?
speaker2: what's left of my blood.
speaker1: think i'll have a glass.
speaker2: help yourself. everyone else has.
speaker1: very tasty.
speaker1: nice joint. can you afford it?
speaker2: nope. the studio pays. thank you, harry.
speaker1: what for?
speaker2: for not chopping off his head and serving it to me on a platter.
speaker1: well, i would have, you know? i just didn't know how to cook it.
speaker1: six months' probation...? you gotta learn when to do battle, farmer. you're not going to win many bouts with 200 pound cops.
speaker2: i took the early rounds.
speaker1: i'll bet.
speaker2: i don't know. it hurts, harry. some things, no matter what you do with them, they just hurt.
speaker1: so you drink, and you fight with a cop...?
speaker2: yeah, and you look at people and you wonder who the they are, what's going on inside their heads. sometimes you can hear it, like a buzzing, the things that happen in their heads. and you wonder: does anybody ever love anybody, really?
speaker1: beats me.
speaker2: i gotta get outta here. i gotta get out of this town.
speaker1: hey look, i got some business down in san diego. whattaya say you come with me, stay a few days?
speaker2: no, harry, i can't --
speaker1: you're coming.

speaker1: you know... when i started acting, you know what i wanted? 
speaker1: i just wanted to be part of something... one thing, one play or one movie, something that was really fine... memorable. and i could say: i did that, i made something good.
speaker2: and?
speaker1: well... to get a crack at something good, you gotta earn it, you gotta climb the ladder first. so you do, you work hard, and all these people behind you are pushing you up, shouting you on. and then one day you realize you are, you're at the top... and there's nothing there. and you look behind you and there's no one below. you're just left there all alone... swaying in the breeze.
speaker2: well, like the man said: "you can make a fresh start with your last breath."
speaker1: hey, watch it.
speaker3: watch what?
speaker1: get away from me, you foul slime.
speaker3: that's no way for a lady to talk.
speaker2: take a walk, pal.
speaker1: who said i was a lady?
speaker3: sorry i insulted you...
speaker2: hey!
speaker1: ahhh, go eat a toilet seat.

speaker1: what happened? who're you? 
speaker2: who're you?
speaker1: i live here.
speaker2: you're farmer? oh... well, look, they took your stuff out. moved it to some hotel, i think.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm preparin' it for the next tenant, he's coming in tomorrow.

speaker1: it, it... yes, i'll wait, i'm waiting... i don't believe this. they can't do this to me! 
speaker1: barnes? it's my diary! they stole my diary! find it, will you? find it! it, that's my life!

speaker1: never. never again. i swear, i swear i will never work with this broad -- 
speaker1: you're four hours late! it's insane! it's unprofessional!
speaker2: i'd say i'm behaving as professionally as anyone else in this town.
speaker1: where were you?!
speaker2: terribly, terribly sorry; i overslept. what's the name of this fine entertainment we're all so involved in?
speaker2: oh yes. "no escape." that's it. there's no escape.

speaker1: it's about time! you're not the star on this show, y'know! 
speaker1: of course, it's not up to me to say anything. i'm just crew... y'know, you hair's so fine you'll lose it if you're not careful. wonder you all don't, the things you do to yourselves. in fact, i think you are already... fact, i think you better --
speaker2: that's it! i'm not taking this any more! i quit!
speaker2: goodbye!... goodbye!... goodbye!...

speaker1:  
speaker1: what the hell's going on here? hold on! hello... hello?
speaker1: hey!
speaker1: what...? help!
speaker1: don't kill me! don't kill me!
speaker1: mama, help me, help me, mama! don't let them kill me!
speaker2: get your clothes on.
speaker1: you have no right! you have no right, you bastards! get the out of here --
speaker2: get your clothes on, lady --

speaker1: name? 
speaker2: i don't believe this! you jerks drag me down here in the middle of the night and you don't even know who the i am!
speaker1: age?
speaker2: fifteen.
speaker1: address?
speaker2: just put me down as a avg -- a vagrant vagabond. come on, this is a joke! assault and battery? i barely touched that
speaker1: occupation?
speaker2: 

speaker1: hey! i'd like to leave a wake-up call for say, ten? hey! i'll have my bread and water in bed! 
speaker2: hey frances! why don't you comb your hair, okay?
speaker1: ...take me the way i am.

speaker1: ...is that not true? 
speaker2: who's writing this guy's lines?
speaker1: answer the question! have you driven a car since you were placed on probation?
speaker2: no, i couldn't get my hands on one.
speaker1: have you reported to your probation officer as directed?
speaker2: i never saw him. why didn't he show up?
speaker1: did you expect him to look you up?
speaker2: why, certainly. i wanted to get a peek at his face...
speaker1: you're on your way to a contempt citation, young lady.
speaker2: that's fine with me... get it? fine. a fine! hey c'mon, c'mon, what is this, an audience or a jury?
speaker1: miss farmer, is it true you fought with the policeman who arrested you last night?
speaker2: sure it's true. i was fighting for my country as well as myself.
speaker1: miss farmer, you were advised at the last hearing that if you took one drink of liquor or failed to be a law-abiding citizen -- frances moves closer to the bench.
speaker2: are you telling me you didn't have a little rum in your pineapple juice this morning? i can smell it from here, your honor. the courtroom erupts into surprised laughter.
speaker1: that's enough!
speaker2: it's the truth! i can smell it from here -- you old hypocrite!
speaker1: miss farmer! in light of your flagrant disregard for the conditions of your probation, coupled with the unwarranted assault on the plaintiff here... i am forced to order you to begin serving a sentence of 180 days in the county jail.
speaker2: fine!
speaker2: wait a minute... i haven't got a lawyer...
speaker2: i want to make a phone call...
speaker2: i have a right to make a phone call!

speaker1: they're stealing my civil rights! help me! i'm being kidnapped! oh help me! help me! 
speaker2: oh my she's loose!
speaker2: she's attacking your correspondent! right here in the court building! good this is crazy! someone stop her!
speaker1: harry!
speaker1: i have a right! i have a right!
speaker2: with what must surely be the final act of madness, the curtain falls on frances farmer's once promising career. the crazed blonde who at

speaker1: ...and we feel that this would be more appropriate. 
speaker2: ...a difficult decision, but, i'm sure, the proper one.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: it's alright now, little sister, everything's going to be just fine.
speaker3: mama, what's...
speaker4: shhh, shhh. you're not going to jail, frances. the judge has put you under my care. i'll see you get the rest you need.
speaker3: you're taking me home!

speaker1: why it's beautiful here! what a view! 
speaker2: good afternoon, miss farmer. i'm dr. symington.
speaker1: good afternoon, doctor.
speaker3: i'm very pleased to meet you, mrs. farmer. i'm sure we'll have more of a chance to talk later. right now i think it's important that your daughter have a chance to settle in. perhaps it would be best if you said your goodbyes here.
speaker1: oh. well, i have some background that you should probably know about if you're...
speaker3: i have no doubt, mrs. farmer. if you'll speak to the girl at the desk, she'll arrange an appointment.
speaker1: i'll be back real soon, little sister. you be a good girl.
speaker4: mama!
speaker4: ...i want to go home, mama.
speaker1: you'll see, little sister. everything will be fine. the doctors know best.
speaker3: i find these initial meetings to be much easier without the concerned relatives in attendance.
speaker4: am i supposed to say 'thank you'?
speaker3: thanks are hardly necessary.
speaker4: aw, shucks, ma'am. t'weren't nothin'.
speaker3: i'm glad to see you haven't lost your sense of humor.
speaker4: it ain't for lack of trying.
speaker3: so it seems. may we be serious for a moment?
speaker4: why, doctor! we've only just met!
speaker3: i feel i've known you for a long time... you see, i've followed your career... you're a fascinating case... i'm looking forward to resolving your predicament.
speaker4: oh! are you really?
speaker3: among persons such as yourself, creative people under great stress, erratic behavior is not at all uncommon and certainly nothing to be ashamed of. it's just that the neuroses which fuel your talent can also generate certain character disabilities which...
speaker4: do you expect me, for one moment, to believe you have greater insight into my personality than i do?
speaker3: please sit down...
speaker4: you may discuss my predicament, doctor. you may discuss it with anyone you like, but not with me. i'm not interested. i can solve my problems without recourse to a veternarian.
speaker3: i see.
speaker4: besides, i don't want to be what you want to make me.
speaker3: and what's that?
speaker4: normal. average.
speaker3: all right. will you please sit down now? symington says.
speaker4: ...did you really say that?
speaker3: just a little joke, miss farmer.
speaker4: this whole thing is a joke!
speaker3: stay calm, please.
speaker4: no, you stay calm, doctor! but you're finding that difficult, aren't you? why, are you attracted to me? perhaps later, in some of our more intimate sessions... after we know each other a little better... and you've torn my personality to shreds, and i'm weeping and vulnerable... then you'll really get your kicks, won't you, "doctor?"
speaker3: i'll have someone show you to your room.
speaker4: oh, that's good, very professional. in control. but the tiny beads of sweat on your upper lip give you away.
speaker3: you really should get some rest now. nurse will meet you outside. good day.
speaker3: is there something else?
speaker4: you didn't say 'symington says'.
speaker3: symington says.

speaker1: not much on hospital corners, are you? 
speaker2: you farmer?

speaker1: so this is the nuthouse... 
speaker2: honey... take my word for it. this is a resort.
speaker3: you have no right!
speaker3: tell them who i am! tell them who i am!
speaker1: are you crazy? unhand that woman! that's amelia earhart!
speaker1: but what is it?
speaker1: you've got to tell me what it is!
speaker4: it's insulin. it throws your body into shock.
speaker5: it's just vitamins.
speaker5: a, c, b-complex, certain minerals... just stay relaxed... good, now open your mouth a sec.

speaker1: ...and here's the one from duluth. a war widow with five children. she works in a defense plant and she's very worried about you. i answered her that she shouldn't let worry over you affect her vital work; and that you'd be back on the silver screen in no time. 
speaker1: and here's one from nice mr. zeiss. he says that...
speaker2: why are these all opened?
speaker1: well, they needed immediate answers, frances. it's good manners and good sense. you shouldn't be bothering yourself with these right now.
speaker2: then why did you bring them?
speaker1: it's your fan mail, little sister.
speaker2: you kill me, mama.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: go on...

speaker1: ...i'm sorry to keep you waiting, the staff review ran over. did you enjoy your mother's visit? 
speaker2: yes. it was very good to see her.
speaker1: really? any problems?
speaker2: not at all. she brought me my fan mail. i had no idea there were so many strangers concerned about me. but i guess that's the best thing about working in the movies. you make so many friends. i want to go back and show them that the faith they put in me wasn't a mistake.
speaker1: you're telling me you feel guilty.
speaker2: no... what i mean is... i'm just very excited by the prospect of getting on with my life, that's all.
speaker1: do you really believe your mother's trying to kill you?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she told me you said, "mama, you want to kill me."
speaker2: i never said... oh look. that's just a figure of speech. she said something funny, and i said...
speaker1: and you accused her of tampering with your mail.
speaker2: oh for christ's...
speaker2: i'm sorry. she misunderstood, that's all.
speaker1: but you tell me you had a pleasant visit and your mother says you were sullen and uncommunicative. whom do you think i should believe?
speaker2: doctor, i hate to break this to you, but my mother is a little batty.
speaker1: frances, you're still filled with anxiety. you feel guilty and hostile toward your family and friends. consequently, i didn't recommend your release at the staff review.
speaker2: you what?
speaker1: mental illness is an elusive thing, and though i'm pleased you're feeling more... capable, it's perhaps unrealistic to expect you to be completely cured after so short a time. don't you agree?
speaker1: i'm sure you'll see it my way in the end.
speaker2: dr. symington, how big is your dick?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: 'cause if it's long enough, which i doubt, why don't you wrap it around and yourself in the ass!
speaker2: i want outta here, you understand? i'm ready to get out! so you go back there... you go back and you tell them to let me out!
speaker1: frances, i'm warning you...
speaker2: no, i'm warning you! who do you think you are, god? you bumble around with your folders... ...and your pencils... ...and your god-damn buttons... ...all your badges of authority! but you have no authority! you're nothing! you're a zero! she tears open the door. two huge orderlies are waiting.
speaker3: doc?
speaker2: symington says...
speaker1: sedate her.

speaker1: hi there. how 'bout a walk in the woods? 
speaker2: oh my i look awful.
speaker1: you've looked a whole lot better. c'mon.

speaker1: they're doin' stuff to me, harry. can you see it? you feel it? they're putting stuff in my food or something, my water, and they're using it to put thoughts in my head. you understand? they're trying to re- arrange what's in my head, they're trying to drive me crazy! oh, harry! 
speaker1: i can't stay here anymore, you understand? i can't, i can't. i gotta get home. i gotta get somewhere else, anywhere, okay?
speaker2: oh, miss farmer! time for your bath, miss farmer!
speaker3: listen: to the left. straight through the trees and over the wall to your left. my car is there.
speaker2: it's time for your bath!
speaker1: oh good. i love my baths.
speaker2: come along now.
speaker3: frances! did you hear what i said?
speaker1: of course, harry.
speaker1: over the walls!
speaker3: you want crazy? i'll show you crazy!

speaker1: evening, gorgeous. 
speaker2: that sure looks like fun... you know how long it's been since i was behind the wheel?
speaker1: forget it, frances. you're not driving.
speaker2: have i told you how mean you're turning, york?
speaker2: where are we, mean man?
speaker1: couple hours from idaho. we'll cut across to montana. i've got friends there with a ranch.
speaker2: i should've known...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: this is another one of your schemes to get me off alone...
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: ...take advantage of me. harry laughs.
speaker2: i don't think i'd be much good in a war...
speaker1: whattaya think you're in now?
speaker2: i don't know. not a war exactly. it's more a... a misapprehension maybe...
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: a misunderstanding, people taking the wrong meaning from things. i wasn't declaring war, harry. i was just saying my prayers.
speaker1: who to?
speaker2: harry, i have to go home. i have to talk to mama.
speaker1: frances, you're fulla drugs. you don't know what you're saying. who do you think put you into meadow wood? your mother thinks you're crazy and she'll keep on thinking it as long as it suits her.
speaker2: no, she just didn't want me going to jail, that's all.
speaker1: yeah? she's a shark, frances. i'm not taking you there, and that's that!
speaker2: you know something, harry?
speaker1: i guess.
speaker2: aside from meanness, you're almost perfect. there's only one other thing wrong with you.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: you can't drink.

speaker1: ohhh, that's lousy scotch! 
speaker2: hey! another shot for the lady and a double for me!
speaker1: what a man!
speaker2: hey, you're a good quarter-horse, kid, but you can't go a route of ground.
speaker1: to quarter-horses.
speaker2: no. to thoroughbreds.

speaker1: love is so terrific such a funny feeling makes you want to cuddle and coo... 
speaker2: makes you sentimental, makes you kinda gentle ouch! terrific thing.
speaker3: why are you always leaving me, harry?
speaker4: huh?
speaker3: you should stickaround sometimes. look out for me.
speaker4: look, frances, i'm only gonna ask this one time. i mean it. i swear after this, i'll never ask again: will you marry me?
speaker3: i know a thing or two about marriage. you... you understand me more than anyone, harry... maybe even more than mama. but... you're too important to me. i'd fail you. i don't know how or why, but i would. and that's a chance i just can't take. do you understand?
speaker4: well... i'll act like i do until i do.
speaker4: there's just one more thing.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker4: will you marry me?

speaker1: it's not too late to keep going, up to vancouver? be the smartest thing. 
speaker2: thanks, harry, really, but... i can't explain it. she's my mother. she's just... i can't give up on her that easy.
speaker1: you give up on her?
speaker2: yeah. it's just... something i gotta do, i guess.
speaker1: frances, you're crazy.
speaker2: i know. don't tell anyone.
speaker1: anyway... if you need me...
speaker3: welcome home, little sister.

speaker1: well, who have we here...? 
speaker2: frances, you remember my lawyer, alma styles?
speaker3: hello, frances. you seem to be having quite a time of it.
speaker2: i called alma because i think we'll need...
speaker3: frances, the doctors at meadow wood have petitioned the court for your return. your mother has asked me to intervene so you can stay here.
speaker2: i swear i didn't know what they were doing to you. i wouldn't have let them...
speaker1: it's okay, mama. it's okay.
speaker3: you realize, of course, your mother is now your legal guardian. in the eyes of the law, you no longer have any rights as an adult. you're going to have to hold your tongue and be selective about whom you mix with. that man who drove you here, for instance --
speaker1: you leave him out of this!
speaker2: frances, please don't...
speaker3: never mind. we won't have to worry about him much longer.

speaker1: how ya doin', al? 
speaker2: you got the wrong guy. name's slocum.
speaker1: no, it ain't. and it ain't harry york, neither.
speaker2: look, i'm tellin' you...
speaker1: i'd give you till ten, al, but we ain't got the time.

speaker1: frances, play 'flow gently sweet afton'. 
speaker2: oh mama, i'm so... tired of that song.
speaker1: please. i want you to. it would make me so happy.
speaker1: it's just a flow gently sweet afton day. life has been so good to me. why, i have just about everything one could wish... but i still have so many blank pages in my scrapbook.
speaker2: i think i need a little air.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing. i think i'll just go out for awhile.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: for a walk, mama. just a walk.
speaker1: how long will you be?
speaker2: not long.
speaker1: i'll have lunch ready by one.
speaker2: i'll be back.
speaker1: at one. promise?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: say you promise.
speaker2: i promise i'll... i promise, mama.
speaker1: you know, the surest way to lose an appetite, is to drink, little sister.
speaker2: yes, mama.
speaker1: i don't want you drinking, frances.
speaker2: yes, mama.

speaker1: ...so what do you think? 
speaker2: i don't know, honey. your mother has such big plans for you.
speaker1: i know that, dad, but --
speaker2: what you have to understand, francie, is that she... well... she wanted so much for herself too, and for me, and she never really got to... the only time i ever saw her happy was if her name was in the papers... but she could have been... if times were different she could have been a politician or... i don't know.
speaker1: but dad, i'm asking about me. what do you think i should do?
speaker2: well, francie, sometimes after you get your hands on something you want, it just doesn't look the same. then you have to be real smart to know if you should hold onto it because it's all you've got... or just let it go. this is the way of things, but i guess you already know that.
speaker1: dad... whatever i decide, will it be okay with you?
speaker2: always. always.
speaker2: i'm sorry, i... i don't have a desk in my room, and...
speaker1: i don't care, dad. i love you.
speaker2: i love you too, francie.

speaker1: i'm back, mama. 
speaker2: oh frances, do i have news for you! guess who --
speaker1: wait, mama, wait. i have something to tell you. i've decided... well... i'm not going to make movies anymore. i thought that's what i wanted, and i went after it with all my soul, the way you taught me, but i was miserable, mama, and it nearly killed me. so now... now it's over. i want a different kind of life, something... simple. i want to live someplace quiet and peaceful... in the country maybe, and i'll have dogs and cats -- i feel so light suddenly, so clear for the first time in... it's going to be okay, mama, i know it. and i love you. she goes to hug her mother, but lillian has changed. frances' news has chilled her.
speaker2: don't... talk crazy.
speaker1: mama...?
speaker2: they want you back! your agent called today! don't you understand? he's sending the scripts. he wants to fly up here in a week with the publicity people! frances, you can't do this to your fans! why, they've been praying for you all through this nightmare. you can't turn your back on them now! look at this fan mail i've been answering!
speaker1: haven't you heard what i said?
speaker2: i told him to come up! i told him you wanted to show them all that there's nothing wrong with you any more, that you're completely cured!
speaker1: i'm not cured. i was never sick! they had no business putting me in there! my only responsibility is to myself now!
speaker2: you... you selfish, selfish child. at least talk to him, hear what he has to say.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: you want to throw it all away, is that it? you had everything, little sister. beauty... a brilliant career... a wonderful husband. you were a movie star!
speaker1: mama, shut up!
speaker2: and now you're throwing everything away? you're gonna be a nobody! nobody! you know what that's like?!
speaker1: you... you'd send me back, wouldn't you? you would.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: i'm going out!
speaker2: you're not going anywhere!
speaker1: yes, i am, and you can't stop me! you can't tell me what to do, mother. i'm a grown woman, and i can decide about my own life.
speaker2: frances!
speaker1: don't you try and stop me. don't you dare!
speaker1: if you follow me, mama, i swear i'll kill you!
speaker2: that's it. you've done it now, little sister.

speaker1: all my life, i've tried to live up to my parents' example. to have the independence of mind and fortitude of spirit that have made this country great. i taught that to frances: speak out. aspire. make something of yourself, something -- 
speaker2: yes, yes, mrs. farmer --
speaker3: frances has always been a battleground, lillian.
speaker4: the point is: it's your opinion that frances is getting steadily worse?
speaker1: well... yes.
speaker4: and you feel you're unable to control her any longer?
speaker1: no... i mean, yes, doctor.
speaker4: and the only course open to you is to commit your daughter for a period of time to a mental institution?
speaker1: well, alma told me that...
speaker1: ...yes.
speaker4: i believe that's all i need to know about miss farmer.
speaker5: i think in all future documents she should be referred to as mrs. r. h. richardson.
speaker1: her married name?
speaker5: yes. it's less recognizable. i'm sure you'd prefer to keep unpleasant publicity to a minimum.
speaker1: ...oh yes.
speaker5: now. can you tell us where we might find frances?

speaker1: ...looking for a drink, and the town is deserted, he can't understand it. finally he finds a bar, goes in -- the place is empty, bartender's closing up. salesman says, 'gimme a martini.' bartender's real nervous, he says, 'no, no, no, i gotta close. big otis is coming to town.' 
speaker1: salesman says, 'i don't care. i gotta have a martini.' so the bartender fixes him a martini real fast, grabs his money, and runs out the back. salesman sits there sipping his martini,... he's got the bar all to himself... then he hears it. this big roaring in the street.
speaker1: enormous hands reach in, grab the swinging doors and rip them off their hinges. this huge man stomps in. picks up a chair and hurls it over the bar, smashing the mirror -- whiskey and glass flying everywhere.
speaker1: he turns to the salesman: 'what the hell're you doing in here!' salesman says, 'i'm just drinking a martini.' 'oh yeah?' the guy says. 'well you better get outa here! big otis is coming to town!'

speaker1: ...from her history, it's apparent the patient suffers from a paranoid reaction with pronounced egotism. her violent responses have recently included aggression against her mother. in view of the deep-seated nature of her ailments and her failure to respond satisfactorily to insulin shock, it is my opinion she may ultimately require permanent institutional care. 
speaker2: counsellor, as guardian ad litem for mrs. richardson, do you waive jury trial?
speaker3: yes, your honor. she signs a paper which is passed to hillier.
speaker2: having heard the testimony of a legally qualified and reputable physician... and being further satisfied of the truth of all matters set forth in the certificates of said physician, i do hereby order that the said mrs. r. h. richardson, an insane person, be confined to the western state hospital for the insane at steilacoom.
speaker2: so ordered! are the gentlemen from steilacoom present?

speaker1: what's she getting, anyway? 
speaker2: standard series to start.
speaker1: fifteen?
speaker3: can i push the button on this one?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: doctor, it may sound odd, but i believe i've profited from my stay here. it's just what i've needed, to get away like this. but i'm recuperated now. i've had lots of time to think and i've made a few decisions about my life. i'm ready to get on with it. 
speaker2: i know you believe that.
speaker1: ...don't you?
speaker2: i'm afraid not. you see, we observe things that you're unaware of: signs, indicators. your problem cuts very deep, frances, and we have to get at that deeper stuff so that when you do get out, you'll really feel secure. does that make sense?
speaker1: no. cut this runaround, doctor. i know better.
speaker2: listen to yourself, frances. the resistance, the anger in your voice.
speaker1: you... i'm sorry, forgive me. doctor, tell me honestly, what do i have to do to get out of here?
speaker2: be patient, that's all. take an interest in your treatment and don't dwell on your resentments. you'll be yourself again, i assure you.
speaker1: ...i see.
speaker2: we'll talk more about this. i'll see you later.
speaker1: one question. if i'm not myself now, just who do you think i am?
speaker2: we'll talk.
speaker1: what the hell!

speaker1: come and get it! come and get it! come and get it! 
speaker1: we want frances! we want frances!
speaker2: come and get it...

speaker1: frances! frances! 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: frances, it's me, harry?
speaker2: ...touch me again and i'll kill you, you pig.
speaker3: watch out, harry. let me look her over.
speaker1: oh, let's get her out of here tonight, right now! let's take her with us!
speaker3: the hearing's tomorrow. if she gets out legally, they can't come after her.
speaker1: look at her! she'll never pass that sanity test tomorrow...
speaker3: i'm taking care of that, harry. just hold her. reserpine. i guarantee you this'll clear her head. she'll wake up feeling smart and sailright through the hearing.
speaker3: yeah... she knows about these. shut her up.
speaker1: you'll be okay, honey. he's just givin' you something to make you think, so that tomorrow you can tell 'em what they want to hear, okay? tell 'em you were crazy as a loon and they cured you and you're grateful.
speaker3: this stuff takes pretty quick. let's go.
speaker2: please! take me!
speaker3: let's get out of here! i'll lose my job!
speaker1: frances, we gotta do it this way. just remember tomorrow, remember what i told you. what're you gonna tell 'em?
speaker2: i'm grateful... grateful.
speaker4: i'm grateful! i'm grateful!
speaker3: harry!
speaker1: i gotta go now.
speaker2: harry, please!

speaker1: we're all square now, harry. right? 
speaker2: all square, doc.
speaker1: good. 'cause i don't want to see you again.
speaker3: i love you, harry. i love you.
speaker2: i love you too, frances.

speaker1: i realize now that i was a very sick woman. 
speaker2: sick! she's sick!
speaker1: i couldn't relate to others in a normal way.
speaker3: she's... not... normal...!
speaker1: and i was not taking responsibility for my actions. but now, thanks to your treatment, i feel ready to face myself, ready to resume the career which i so single-handedly shattered. i only hope... i hope i can make you all proud of me. thank you. thank you so much. the room is silent now. a very odd moment. to their

speaker1: of course, she hasn't anything definite in mind. 
speaker2: no. no, it all depends on what offers i get.
speaker3: who did your hair, frances?
speaker2: well, i like to try different styles. sometimes if you're old-fashioned enough, you find you're modern. right, mama?
speaker3: what do you think of all this, mrs. farmer?
speaker1: it's a miracle. just a miracle.

speaker1: oh, just leave those things for now. 
speaker2: no, mama, i'll take care of it. i'll wash them in the morning.
speaker1: you know, little sister, i never resented you for refusing to see me in the... the hospital. i knew you had to manage on your own before you could come back.
speaker2: thank you for understanding, mama.
speaker1: little sister, i don't want you to feel any rush to get back to work. i want you to rest... for a while anyway.
speaker2: i will, i promise.
speaker1: good night, dear.

speaker1: where to? 
speaker2: oh harry...
speaker1: this is it, kid. this is our chance. when you got a chance, you better take it.
speaker2: yeah. i don't know.
speaker1: you don't need to screw around anymore. you don't need dwayne steele or odets or your mother. you need me.
speaker2: i know, but... there were so many people in there, harry. every time i turned around someone was pressing against me... watching, looking over my shoulder, touching me, grabbing, sticking things into me. when i feel somebody near me now... anybody... my skin starts to crawl. long beat. she turns and stares at him sadly.
speaker2: you can't change the things they did to me, harry. only i can do that... by myself.
speaker1: been a lot of years, you know. a long time waiting. for what? end up feeling like a sap.
speaker2: oh please, harry... don't even think it. you're the only person who ever... it's just... can't you wait for me?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: yes you do. if you love me you can wait, right? a month, six months, whatever it takes.
speaker1: right. except... time has a way of --
speaker2: no, harry, it's not time, it's us. you and me. and i'm telling you now that i'll come to you, okay? i'll find you. i will.
speaker1: i hope so, frances.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'll be seeing you, kid.

speaker1: pretty morning. 
speaker2: it's always beautiful at this time. peaceful...
speaker1: and no people.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: where you goin'?
speaker2: wherever they're going, i'm going.
speaker1: yeah, i know what that's like... where you been?
speaker2: well, i was picking fruit with some migrant workers until...
speaker1: what's the matter?
speaker1: they're looking for you, huh?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what'd you do?
speaker2: you know, i've never been able to figure that out.
speaker1: i've got a little whiskey here, warm you up.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: wait. maybe they'll pick you up.
speaker2: 
speaker1: run!

speaker1: dad...? why don't you stop at a side road and let me out? 
speaker2: francie, you know i can't do that.
speaker1: why? it's such a simple thing. you just let me out and i disappear down a road and you never have to see me again.
speaker2: they'll just catch you again, francie. besides, your mother will know.
speaker1: dad, here! you don't have to stop, just slow down. you can tell mama i jumped out. she knows that's the kind of thing i'd do. she won't blame you.
speaker2: but i gave her my word. besides, she's still your legal guardian. my hands are tied.
speaker1: you know where you're taking me. you know what she'll do. just give me a minute, slow down, give me an instant for once in your life, please?
speaker2: please, francie...
speaker1: daddy!
speaker2: i'll try to protect you, francie. i will, i'll talk to her. we'll have a real talk.
speaker2: are you... are you hungry?
speaker1: i pity us, dad. i pity us both.

speaker1: do i go right away or do i have time to take a bath? 
speaker2: i was hoping for a kind word, little sister.
speaker1: you were hoping for a kind word?! you're my mother! you're supposed to nourish me! support me!
speaker2: i have!
speaker1: no! all you've done is try to break my spirit, try to turn me into you! but i'm not you, mother, and i never will be, and thank for it! that goes for you too! and frankly, i don't know how, with the two of you, i turned out as sane as i am -- wait right there, gentlemen, i'll be with you in a minute... and believe me, i don't want to stay here one second longer than i have to! but i've got to tell you, lillian, that one day before you die, you will realize what you've done and hang your head in shame. in shame!
speaker2: but what --
speaker1: no! you're not talking now. you listen. you can send me away, lillian, you can pretend i'm crazy and pretend i'm still your little girl who can't take care of herself, but one thing you can't pretend anymore. you can't pretend i love you because i don't. i can't. not after what you've done to me. because you see... i'm still me... i'm trying real hard all this time to be me... and you, 'little sister', you haven't been any help at all. okay, boys, i'm ready.

speaker1: we shall hear the angels, we shall see the whole sky all diamonds... 
speaker2: ...best deal i ever made. twenty bucks to a movie star.
speaker3: yeah, it's worth it i guess.
speaker2: what's she saying, anyway?
speaker3: who knows. she's crazy, ain't she?

speaker1: i don't know why they even bother. she's had enough of this to knock sense into a bull elephant. 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i checked the files. this one holds the record for shock treatments. four hundred seventeen and no end in sight.
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker1: yeah, well, you know doctors. they sure hate to use that word.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: 'incurable.'

speaker1: harry? oh harry, i knew you'd come. i love you, harry. i love... take me home, harry. 
speaker2: we'll get you home, frances.
speaker1: thank you, harry.

speaker1: one merely inserts the leucotome beneath the eyelid and presses up into the prefrontal lobe, manipulating it so as to sever the nervous connections between the thalamofrontal radiation and the body of the brain. 
speaker1: because of the speed and simplicity of the operation, i am able, as you are seeing, to perform the procedure on ten patients in less than a half hour.
speaker1: the operation is completely painless and can be performed without any sedative whatsoever.
speaker1: we have always known that this form of radical treatment was effective, but until now it couldn't be applied on a large scale. the old procedure required a full day's work by a surgical team to perform a single operation. in the same time, working alone, i can treat fifty.
speaker1: this procedure works best on patients with extreme over-reactions to emotional stimuli. it can also be used as a last resort on those who seem impervious to other forms of treatment.
speaker1: in plain language, my technique severs the nerves which give emotional energy to ideas. along with the cure comes a loss of affect... a kind of emotional flattening...
speaker1: ...with diminished creativity and imagination. patients become like good solid cake with no icing. but, after all, it is their emotions and imaginations that are disturbed.
speaker1: these patients will soon be leaving the hospital.
speaker1: lobotomy gets 'em home.

speaker1: what was i saying? oh yes, it was the communists that did it to frances. 
speaker1: they capture the mind by first seducing the heart. i suppose i never taught frances to close her heart...
speaker2: uh... excuse us, mrs. farmer. we're going to have to... uh...
speaker3: yeah, i better pack it in too.
speaker1: pardon? oh, would you like more lemonade?
speaker1: you know, ernie, i think we should have frances' room repainted for when she comes home. that'll brighten her day.
speaker4: ...dwayne steele divorced you, and from this point on, your story takes a darker turn. shunned by the hollywood you criticized so harshly, alienated from your family and friends, you turn your back on professional commitments in new york, and alcohol and drugs enter your life. these are sad, desperate times for you.
speaker4: ...until finally your mother finds it necessary to commit you to a state mental institution. were you mentally ill, frances?
speaker5: ...no, ralph. i don't believe i ever was sick. but when you're treated like a patient long enough, you're apt to act like one...
speaker4: were you an alcoholic?
speaker5: no.
speaker4: were you a drug addict?
speaker5: no. never.
speaker4: ...and over 200 producers have been invited to watch your appearance here tonight... so who knows, frances farmer, anything's possible on your comeback trail! and since your friends tell me they have to drive you everywhere, look what we've got for you!
speaker4: a brand new 1958 edsel!
speaker5: thank you, ralph.
speaker4: thank you, frances. and after the show we're hosting a reception for you and your friends at hollywood's own roosevelt hotel!
speaker4: so, frances farmer, this is your life. good night. bless you.

speaker1: where shall we drop you, frances? home? 
speaker2: hey.
speaker2: c'mere. i want to talk to you.
speaker3: oh. why, harry york. how nice to see you.
speaker2: how... how ya doin', farmer?
speaker3: fine, thank you. did you watch the show?
speaker2: sure i did, that's why i'm here.
speaker3: how did i look?
speaker2: oh, you... ...ennh.
speaker3: well... you're looking well.
speaker3: i got a new car. only it's red. did you know mama died?
speaker2: yeah. yeah, i heard about that.
speaker3: dad, too. i sold the house. i'm a faceless sinner, harry...
speaker2: why do you say that?
speaker3: i'd ask you to take me home, but i'm a faceless sinner. ...you smell good, harry. familiar, you know? i'd ask you to take me home, but...
speaker2: frances!
speaker3: don't get mad at me, harry. please. it's just... some things happen for the best. beat. she takes his hand as if to shake it. harry clasps hers tenderly.
speaker3: it's going to be slow from now on. do you know what i mean, harry?
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker3: very slow. but we're not going to stop, are we?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: no, we're not.
speaker3: goodbye, harry. it was very good to see you again.
speaker2: yes. would you like me to walk a little way with you?
speaker3: that would be okay.
speaker2: just a little way.

