speaker1: come on, hit me. 
speaker2: chill...i gotta find -- alright.
speaker1: you got one?
speaker1: "warning shots", thievery corporation.
speaker1: come on. next one.
speaker1: "bullets" by the editors.
speaker2: you loaded these songs. you don't need to be so impressed with yourself.
speaker1: i know i don't have to be.
speaker2: i haven't even heard of half these bands.
speaker1: it's called good music. you should try to familiarize yourself with it, instead of listening to the you do.
speaker2: i listen to crap?
speaker1: hurts me to be the one to tell you.
speaker2: i'm sure it does.

speaker1: you gotta be more like me, baby. think new, fresh, cutting edge. i'm looking for the next beatles, u2 or radiohead. 
speaker2: so, where does this band fall into that group?
speaker2: fresh, new or cutting edge?
speaker1: how'd that get on there?
speaker2: you loaded the songs. you tell me?
speaker1: must be a mistake.
speaker2: says here you've listened to it 86 times.
speaker2: is this true? have you always wanted to be a cowboy?
speaker2: you also got "men without hats" greatest hits? i didn't know they qualified for a greatest hits album. can you break me off a little "safety dance"?
speaker1: okay, give me that.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: now what can i do you two for?
speaker1: well...ah...
speaker2: first time here and you're not quite sure where to begin.
speaker2: something like that.
speaker3: precisely like that.

speaker1: get you started with one of these. 
speaker1: how long you folks hiking for?
speaker2: two days. heading out early sunday.
speaker1: well, if you move at a decent clip, you could hit the summit by midday tomorrow. should still give you time to take it all in and make it down.
speaker3: any particular path?
speaker1: you folks experienced hikers?
speaker2: we've done some ah--
speaker3: no. nothing like this.
speaker1: for first-timers, i recommend either willow creek bridge or donner trail.
speaker3: donner trail? as in "the donner party?"
speaker1: i'm not sure of the name's origin. they're the two paths we regularly patrol. something happens and you're on one of the other trails, it might be awhile before we find you.

speaker1: where do we camp? 
speaker2: unless it says not to, you can set up where you like. just make sure when you turn in that you extinguish your fire. oh, and this here's bear country. they're not animals to fool with. you see one, you head the other way, especially if he's feeding. if the bear thinks you're getting in the way of his food, that's all she wrote.
speaker3: great.
speaker2: you got yourself a first aid kit?
speaker1: nurse betty here's my first aid kit.
speaker3: don't mind him. i'm a nurse.
speaker2: good for you. the question was, do you have a first aid kit?
speaker3: yes, we have a first aid kit.
speaker2: great, see how easy that was. it's off-season, park's pretty quiet. even more than usual. you may run into a few locals, but--
speaker3: people live up here?
speaker2: we have a few generations of families that have called these mountains home. most of `em are friendly. respect their land and they'll respect you.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: base is just outside, to the left. at about two miles up there'll be a junction where you can pick your path.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: you getting anything? 
speaker1: i'll lock them in the car.
speaker2: i'll take mine.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: just to annoy you.
speaker1: seriously...

speaker1: in an emergency, i'd rather have a phone that may not work up there, than not have a phone that may work up there. 
speaker2: okay, we all set?
speaker1: yup.
speaker2: let's do this.
speaker1: hey, einstein. what do you think, leave the tent or maybe take it with us?
speaker2: i was just seeing if you were paying attention.

speaker1: it could be fun. 
speaker2: not a chance. high school reunions serve only two purposes... to try to

speaker1: mike rehash so-called glory days if you were popular or to gloat if you were a spaz and are now filthy rich, banging a super-model. 
speaker2: so what were you?
speaker3: me? i was a stoner.
speaker2: so what does that mean?
speaker3: how the am i supposed to remember? i was high all the time.
speaker3: where'd you get that bandana?
speaker2: it's cute, right? i stopped by that army-navy store on grover yesterday.
speaker3: and when you were buying it, you didn't think that maybe...
speaker2: oh...well...it was the last one...
speaker3: the last one?
speaker2: yeah...
speaker3: the entire army-navy store... sold out?
speaker2: completely. there was some sort of run on bandanas at the last minute.

speaker1: here... you big baby. 
speaker2: nasty.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: looks like it's a, or was, a fox. come on. mike and sheryl head back to the path.

speaker1: what do you think? "cannibal" trail or the other one? 
speaker2: guidebook says a couple of these other trails lead to some pretty sweet views.
speaker1: we're not lewis and/or clark. we're gonna stick to one of the ones the ranger said.

speaker1: you folks need some help? 
speaker2: we're just going over our options here.
speaker1: well, take it from me, any way you choose, you can't go wrong.
speaker3: the ranger at base suggested donner trail or...
speaker1: ...willow creek bridge. i think sam only knows those two trails. well. between those, i'd pick donner trail. willow creek will shoot you to the top, but there's not as much to see. donner weaves through peddler's point, it's a better hike and prettier all around view.
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker1: that's a pretty ring.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker1: not your traditional wedding ring, but it's all the same in the lord's eyes. how long have you two been wed?
speaker3: oh... we're not married. not yet anyway.

speaker1: it's a ring my father gave me for graduation. 
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry. you just looked like you was married is'all. both so beautiful. i'm just an old fashioned silly-bird.
speaker1: no, it's fine.
speaker3: which one of those trails got the best clearings?
speaker2: clearings? neither will give you much in the way of clearings. but, there's another path, this one here. timber falls. its got some beautiful vistas and one of the prettiest falls you'll ever see.
speaker3: sounds perfect. yeah?
speaker2: well, i'll leave you to it. last thing you need is me fussing'round you, taking you from your private time.
speaker2: i'm just gonna say it and go, but if you two were to marry... i bet the lord would bless you with a happy, healthy and handsome child. good luck and bless you both.

speaker1: i suddenly feel the need for confession. 
speaker2: not yet? love taking your shots, don't ya?
speaker1: when i see an opening.
speaker2: that path she was talking about winds through these falls. what do you think?
speaker1: i think... if you get eaten by a bear and there isn't a ranger around, i'm not carrying what's left of you down this mountain.
speaker2: and they say romance is dead. timber falls it is.
speaker2: who's lewis and/or clark?
speaker1: you really were stoned through high school. as mike and sheryl trek up the path...

speaker1: sheryl stops, startled. mike motions towards... 
speaker2: you're going to lose that out here.
speaker3: it's fine. i never take it off. not since you gave it to me. betcha don't remember...
speaker2: ...february 27, 2006.
speaker2: i remember every moment with you.
speaker3: i've got you so whipped.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: my hand... something stuck it.

speaker1: it's okay. it's not too deep. let me get the first aid kit. 
speaker2: that stung.
speaker1: gotta clean the wound, baby.

speaker1: you know me and blood... we don't do so well. 
speaker2: i know. all done.
speaker1: not bad, nightingale. not bad at all.
speaker2: did you hear something?
speaker1: it's probably the deer.

speaker1: the deer went in the other direction. 
speaker2: maybe it's someone, or something, stalking us.
speaker1: quit it.
speaker2: something inhuman watching our every move.
speaker1: i said, knock it off.
speaker2: something coming for you, sheryl.
speaker1: just when i think there's hope for you.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're an
speaker2: this is a joke. you're not really mad, are you? sheryl...?
speaker2: i'm sorry! unbelievable.
speaker2: sheryl!

speaker1: sheryl, wait up! 
speaker1: sheryl?! no reply. his heart now pounding.

speaker1: good old hansel. following the trail of bread crumbs. 
speaker2: you

speaker1: doesn't feel good to be teased, does it? 
speaker2: truce?
speaker1: truce.
speaker2: don't disappear on me again.
speaker3: hey, brody, lonnie. check this out.
speaker3: looks like we got ourselves a little party.
speaker2: we were just moving our way up the mountain.

speaker1: you were moving your way'round more than just that. 
speaker2: like a peach.
speaker3: you folks best be careful about what you do up here... never know who's watching.
speaker4: appreciate the advice...i think we learned our lesson.
speaker1: you city folk, ain't ya? up from charleston roughing it, seeing how the "other" half lives?
speaker4: no, we're from virginia, just up for a weekend trip. and, uh... you folks live up here?
speaker3: it's easy to spot the city folk. it's like they're trying to be friendly, when really they don't want to be.
speaker4: i think you just startled us is all. sheryl looks over at...

speaker1: we'll just be on our way. may i have those? 
speaker2: finders keepers.
speaker3: darryl.
speaker3: where you runnin' off to?
speaker4: yeah, we just getting acquainted and
speaker1: we just want to get a little further along before the sun sets.
speaker2: plenty of time'fore that.
speaker1: look. we don't want any trouble. we just want to be on our way...
speaker3: and why do you suppose we mean to make trouble?

speaker1: you folks enjoy the spirits? 
speaker2: excuse me? the what?
speaker3: spirits.
speaker4: booze!
speaker2: sure. yeah.
speaker1: why don't you try a taste of this?
speaker3: betcha never tasted nuthin'like that?
speaker1: fifty bucks.
speaker1: i'll sell you the jar for fifty bucks.
speaker3: or maybe we could do us a little trade.
speaker2: let me get my wallet.

speaker1: fifty bucks sounds like a bargain. pay the man. 
speaker2: pleasure doing business with ya. take care now.
speaker3: should you tire of your present company... just holla and i'll come running with bells on darling.
speaker4: are you okay?
speaker1: you brought a gun?
speaker1: why did you bring a gun?
speaker4: same reason you brought your cellphone. better to have it and not need it. to protect us.
speaker1: lotta good it just did.

speaker1: sheryl turns from mike, walks back to the path. 
speaker2: you want to go back? sheryl? i'm sorry.
speaker3: we should have stuck to one of the patrolled paths.
speaker2: 

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: do you know how many times i've had someone die on me? how many children?
speaker1: i thought... i wasn't thinking. what do you want me to do?

speaker1: get rid of the gun. 
speaker2: what... now? out here?
speaker2: i can't just leave it here in the woods, some kid could find it.
speaker1: then get rid of the bullets now and when we get home, you get rid of the gun.
speaker1: please.
speaker1: was that all of them?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: oh. didn't mean to startle you folks.

speaker1: it's fine. we were led to believe this trail wasn't regularly patrolled. 
speaker2: it's not, but... it's one of my favorite spots, so i often find an excuse to swing by.
speaker3: it's gorgeous.
speaker2: yup. there are a couple more falls in the park, but none quite so... inviting as this one. now don't take my word for it, you can see for yourself... how long's your stay?
speaker3: just til sunday.
speaker2: yeah, no. the other falls are clear on the other side. it would take you a couple nights just to get there.
speaker3: maybe next time.
speaker1: this is a quickie trip. just getting out of the city for a couple days.
speaker2: the city, huh. which? if it's charleston, i wouldn't blame ya. whole place smells like feet. i gotta haul myself all the way down to the hospital there for my yearly because the darn hmo's rules and regulations won't let me visit the local doc. not my cup of tea at all, but if you like it there, then...
speaker3: no, we're not from charleston.

speaker1: but apparently we look like we are. 
speaker2: we live in alexandria. it's just outside of d.c.
speaker3: oh. i've been there, few years back. now that city i like. lotta beautiful churches if i recall correctly. which congregation do y'all belong to?
speaker1: um... not sure. sheryl keeps track of all that for us. sheryl?
speaker2: uh... we're between congregations at the moment.
speaker3: well... i should get back to work. sun'll be down soon and that path ain't gettin'clear on its own.
speaker2: excuse me... sir?
speaker3: the name's clyde.
speaker2: clyde, would you recommend a nice spot nearby to make camp for the night?
speaker3: be happy too... let's see... oh, i got it. "five corners" will be perfect. it's just a bit up the ways here, near the lake. it's five large rocks which sit in a clearing with a view of the whole park. the rocks retain the heat from the day, so if you set up camp between them you won't be so cold.

speaker1: sounds perfect. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: just doing my job. you have fun and be careful. good evening.

speaker1: this is incredible. 
speaker1: ranger said there's a lake near by.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the lake. i'd kill to rinse off.
speaker2: whoa. wait a sec. it'll be dark soon.
speaker1: where's your sense of adventure?
speaker2: sher. seriously. let's wait `til morning.

speaker1: fine. 
speaker1: do you know what you are doing?
speaker2: i think its pretty obvious that i don't.

speaker1: that was... the worst dinner ever. 
speaker2: you cooked.

speaker1: yeah, i'm aware. you know what would make this evening perfect? moonshine. i got a whole jar of it. there's a sentence i never thought i'd say. "i have a jar of moonshine." matter of fact, i've got enough to share with our entire congregation... 
speaker2: ... in charleston.
speaker1: our home city, of course. but i should start with you... would you like some moonshine?
speaker1: then what would you like?
speaker2: i'd like to you.
speaker1: not very christian of you.
speaker2: i'm more old testament.
speaker1: what's that mean?
speaker2: not sure. but i think it's the nastier of the two books.

speaker1: i was good. i mean, even better than usual. 
speaker2: if you don't say so...
speaker1: ... if i don't say so myself, yeah. top notch performance. what, you disagree?

speaker1: nah, it was good. do you think i had anything to do... 
speaker2: no. all me.
speaker1: fine. i liked what the old woman said about us earlier.
speaker2: what did she say?
speaker1: that she thought we were married.
speaker2: you are relentless.
speaker1: i wouldn't be a proper girlfriend if i didn't nag every now and then.
speaker2: i get it, but it makes me feel like the bad guy every time. which makes me feel like
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't mean that. where are you going?
speaker2: do out there, what you did in here.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: put out the fire.

speaker1: sheryl! 
speaker1: sheryl!

speaker1: darryl stops, turns. lonnie looks at daryl. 
speaker2: what is it? hear something? darryl holds his look into the woods, then...
speaker3: nah. it's nothing.
speaker4: where is she!?

speaker1: whoa... take it easy. 
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: who? what the you talking about?
speaker2: what did you do to her?
speaker1: i didn't do nothing.

speaker1: i don't know! 
speaker2: you have sheryl's towel...what the did you do to her?!
speaker1: foun' towel.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i foun' the towel.
speaker2: you found it? that's you're story, you inbred stop lying or i will kill you!

speaker1: don' kill me...please...i foun' it... up...up the paf back `dere...just a bit ago... fuckin'swear! 
speaker1: didn't think you had dat in you, city boy. i just got dis shirt.
speaker1: shame you lost dat fine piece o'ass. something dat sweet don't come'round every day. even for pretty folk like you.
speaker2: shut the up.
speaker1: you best hope you find her'fore i do. `cause i will enjoy tearing her apart. and when i'm done there, i will cut her eyeballs out and skull her. any luck, brody's already beat me to it.
speaker2: 

speaker1: look who's up. 
speaker2: where am i?
speaker1: you're in my home, michael. you gave me quite a scare. i thought i lost you.
speaker1: lucky the snap didn't break the bone, just bruised it. i know that's of little comfort now, but trust me, it's a good thing. that dirty trap however's prime for spreading infection, need to finish cleaning out that wound and then i'll get some "evening primrose" in you. same stuff the indian tribes used it back in the day to heal, well... just about everything. so's do i.
speaker1: try and relax.
speaker2: thank you. for saving my life.
speaker1: you don't have to thank me. up here, we take care of one another. that's the only way any of us survive.
speaker2: um... i'm sorry, but i don't know your name.

speaker1: oh for the sake of sunshine... how rude a host am i? name's ida foster. 
speaker2: ida, i need some help.
speaker1: i'm moving as fast as i can, sweetie.
speaker2: no, not me. it's sheryl. my girlfriend. you met her with me yesterday. something's happened to her. she was gone this morning when i woke up. i looked everywhere and i couldn't find her. we need to call someone. a ranger. somebody. we need to find her right away. do you have a phone?
speaker1: i'm sorry, but i don't. never really had use for one. i do have a radio. we can call down to base if you'd like.
speaker1: after we take care of you.
speaker2: i'm fine, ida, please... if you could call now.
speaker1: you want to lose this leg? cause that's what you're risking. soon as we're done, i'll call. okay?
speaker1: bite down on this... i ain't gonna lie... lotta pain about to hit you sweetheart.

speaker1: it's okay. it's almost over. 
speaker1: we'll get some of that primrose in you and you'll be good as new.
speaker2: ida? the radio. please... can you call down please?
speaker1: i'll take care of it right now.

speaker1: ida, you in there?! 
speaker2: he's looking for me.
speaker3: why's that?

speaker1: ida! 
speaker2: i think he had something to do with sheryl going missing.

speaker1: i'll take care of it. 
speaker2: ida, lemme in!
speaker1: i'm coming!
speaker2: what took you so long?
speaker1: what do you want, brody?
speaker2: i'm looking for a man hiker.
speaker1: this "man hiker" alone or wit someone?
speaker2: he had a lady friend, but... i'm just looking for him now.
speaker1: well, i ain't seen no one in days.

speaker1: what'd he do you for anyway? 
speaker2: he busted darryl's face in with a shotgun. left him a mess of blood and teeth. nearly killed him. you spot anyone you don't know, you be sure to find me.
speaker1: fine.
speaker1: he's gone. brody and those boys are a pain in the backside. i'm sure that cousin of his had it coming.
speaker3: what did the ranger say? does he need to speak to me? when is he coming?
speaker1: sorry, i wasn't able to reach anyone.
speaker3: damnit!
speaker1: please don't take the lord's name in vain in this house.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker1: drink this.

speaker1: something's not right. 
speaker2: i'm sure they're just on rounds and will be back any minute. we'll try them again and we'll find sheryl. you'll see. she probably just took a wrong turn up here, ended up in the middle of "don't know where." happens lots of times. please drink up, michael, it will make you feel better.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: how did you know my name?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: michael. you keep calling me michael. you did it just now. you did before, just after i woke up. you called me michael. nobody calls me michael.
speaker2: i'm sure you're mistaken. you musta told me before.
speaker1: no, i would have told you "mike." only my grandmother, who's dead, ever called me michael.
speaker2: well, how else could i have known your name?

speaker1: on my driver's license and credit cards, it says michael. if you stole my wallet from the campsite... that's how you'd have known. 
speaker2: you're accusing me of stealing your wallet? i saved your life. twice. why would i steal your wallet? now, just drink your primrose...
speaker1: the primrose!
speaker2: where do you think you're going?
speaker1: i want to call the ranger myself.

speaker1: i'm getting in that room, ida. 
speaker2: i can't let you in there.
speaker1: where is sheryl, ida? she's in that room, isn't she?
speaker2: you sinners are all alike. i heard you last night. spitting in the face

speaker1: a scream cries out. 
speaker2: sheryl!?

speaker1: oh my 
speaker1: i need something to cut you down, baby.
speaker1: are you okay?
speaker2: get me out of here. hurry.
speaker2: he'll be back soon.

speaker1: who's he? 
speaker2: come on, come on, come on...

speaker1:  
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker2: mike? mike?

speaker1: oh my stars, what happened to you? 
speaker2: you have to help me. i was kidnapped. my boyfriend came... and this man's chasing me. he's chasing me right now.
speaker1: calm down. i can't make heads or tails of what you're saying.
speaker2: he's coming. he's right behind me.
speaker1: look, miss, there's no one there.
speaker2: oh my mike.

speaker1: deacon, what's going on? how the heck did she escape? 
speaker1: want something done, gotta do it yourself.

speaker1: deacon! 
speaker1: that's enough. get him ready.

speaker1: the iron door slowly creaks open. 
speaker2: and answered and said unto them, "each man should have his own wife, and each woman her own husband. the husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise the wife to her husband."
speaker3: amen.
speaker2: and so, in the presence of our lord christ, i ask you michael... and you sheryl, do you accept the sacred covenant of marriage? mike and sheryl stare at clyde. neither flinch.
speaker2: i'll ask again... do you accept this covenant of marriage? sheryl nods immediately. mike nods too.
speaker2: then by the power vested in me, i pronounce you man and wife.

speaker1: why are you doing this? we did nothing to you people. let us go! 
speaker2: you may kiss the bride.
speaker1: you people are sick!
speaker2: do not use that type of language in this house again. now... kiss the bride or... ... he'll cut off your lips.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker1: what are you doing?

speaker1: mike please. don't hurt her. whatever it is you want, i'll give it to you. 
speaker2: i know you will.
speaker3: gonna untie your mouth, now. have a little "man to man" talk.
speaker4: please... it's not too late. let us go. we won't tell anyone.
speaker3: how well do you know your bible, michael?
speaker4: 

speaker1: i told you before to watch that mouth, mister. 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: you through?
speaker1: i'll ask again... how well do you know the bible?
speaker2: not very.
speaker1: that's okay. it's fine. that's why i am here... teach you the way things are and the way they should be.

speaker1: i want you, deacon. i want you to me. hard. on deacon - his stare deepens. 
speaker2: lord knows the will of a man gets tested. cruelly most times. but the righteous persevere. they do what needs to be done, even though they don't want to. it's what makes a man, a man. let me tell you the story of judas, he was one of jesus's apostles. judas led roman soldiers to the capture and eventual death of our lord christ. and now, is supposedly seated next to satan, his soul burning in forever for this sin. but i don't believe that's the case. i have my own theory. the death of was predicted thousands of years before judas ever came along. and for the prophecy to be fulfilled, had to die. if he didn't, the gates of heaven couldn't be opened for mankind. i don't think, for an instant, judas wanted to be the one, but... someone had to. judas helped so could die for our sins. save us all. and i believe at this moment... judas is in heaven, despite his sin, because it led to the greater good. relations prior to marriage is a sin. you and sheryl are sinners in the lord's eyes. and because of those sins, your souls are but ida and me, we're gonna give you a chance to save your souls and do the right thing, but... as previously stated, you will need to persevere and show the strength and will of your character. but you'll do it. because that's what needs to be done.

speaker1: deacon! 
speaker1: you get away from her. git! now!
speaker1: i'm sorry about that, sugar. my brother, he's not well.
speaker1: it's not all his fault. our father wasn't very christian and then there was the accident. along with the scarring, lost use of his vocals. can't speak a lick. now, i've spoken to him. what happened with the others won't happen to you. he's promised me that.
speaker1: i'm gonna take that out of your mouth now. i brought you some tea, got some primrose in it. help you relax, get some rest. okay?
speaker2: please don't do this. please let me go. please..i just want to go home.

speaker1: drink the tea. 
speaker1: that's better. good girl. i almost forgot to ask... how does it feel being married?
speaker2: why are you doing this?
speaker1: i thought you'd be happy about that. all i ever wanted out of life was two things... to be married and to have a baby. the lord blessed me with clyde and i thank him every day for that.
speaker1: but having a baby's been...

speaker1: she can conceive fine... just... can't seem to make it all the way through. timothy was the toughest... made it to month eight. 
speaker1: city doctor had some fancy mumbo-jumbo words for the condition. breaks my heart every time. that woman was born to be a mother. it's her calling in life. just like you and sheryl have a calling.
speaker2: what exactly do you want from us?

speaker1: you're young, strong... it's gonna be easy for you. not like me. 
speaker2: wh-what...?
speaker1: you're gonna have a baby, sheryl. my baby.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker1: what have you done to her?
speaker2: she'll be out for hours, but she's fine.
speaker3: ida'll come back in a little bit, check to see that the deed has been done. if it hasn't...the next time you see your little lady...a piece of her will be missing.

speaker1: now, we know conception's not automatic. so don't feel like all the pressure's on right now. we're prepared to do this however long it takes. you give us the effort each time, eventually the magic will happen. 
speaker2: you're out of your minds.

speaker1: what did i tell you about the language? 
speaker1: deacon will be right outside that door. the only door. this room has no windows and is buried twenty feet below ground. cutting to the chase... there's no way out and you can scream yourself hoarse, no one will hear you.
speaker2: we'll let you have your privacy now. oh, almost forgot.

speaker1: it will. 
speaker2: promise me. promise me, clyde.
speaker1: i promise.

speaker1: was i at all unclear yesterday? 
speaker2: no, but...
speaker1: did you understand what was expected of you?
speaker2: yes, but... how do you expect...
speaker1: clearly you did not understand. you did not even attempt relations last evening.
speaker2: what you're asking to do is sick.
speaker1: you didn't have a problem when penetration was a sin, but when it's your wife, it's sick?!? unbelievable.
speaker1: you knew the rules, michael. i warned you. now, deacon, here, will remind you.

speaker1: i'm going to be late for work. 
speaker2: be home at the regular time?
speaker1: might be a bit late. i have an errand that needs attending to.

speaker1: deacon finally selects a weapon, turns around... 
speaker2: you don't have to do this. come on.

speaker1: what are they doing to him? 
speaker2: you should concern yourself with what's about to happen to you.

speaker1: what are you doing, ida? 
speaker2: you think you're so much smarter than me, don't you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: yes you do. admit it'cause i can see it in your eyes, darling. with your fancy schools and job and such. you think you are better than me.
speaker1: no, i don't.
speaker2: might surprise you, but i was quite the student back in the day. straight a's. every subject'cept for science. infuriated me how they tried to explain away the lord's creations. our teacher, mr. billings, once said... in the future, humans won't be born with a pinky finger'cause of evolution. of all the... i shouted, "no! we are created in the lord's image... not some nonsensical theory by darwind." sheryl stares at ida, terrified would be an understatement.
speaker2: i suppose mr. billings and mr. darwind can stand up and cheer, because you, little lady... you're about to evolve.

speaker1: no more. please. no more. 
speaker1: what are you going to do with that?

speaker1: please ida, don't. don't do this. 
speaker2: you think i want to hurt a pretty thing like you? pains me, but... until you and your husband obey, my hands, much like yours, are tied.
speaker1: i know about your condition, ida. it's not your fault. there are a lot of women that can't carry a baby full term. i know how much you're hurting.
speaker2: you don't know anything about me or what i've gone through.
speaker1: i'm here for you now. i'll help you. please.

speaker1: clyde! 
speaker2: g'morning, brody.
speaker1: i stopped by your place the other day.
speaker2: ida mentioned.
speaker1: so have you seen or heard anything about that man hiker?
speaker2: in fact i have. i saw him and his lady leave.
speaker1: when was this?

speaker1: yesterday. just before dusk. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: believe what you want.
speaker2: i saw their car last night in the parking lot at base. so they didn't leave, "just before dusk."
speaker1: well, i was down at base this morning... car's gone now.
speaker2: something don't feel right here, clyde. between you and ida...
speaker1: i don't have time for this...
speaker1: take your hand off me, brody.
speaker2: what do you know about that hiker you ain't telling me?
speaker1: i told you, brody... i saw them leave. let it go.

speaker1: how do you expect me to do this? like this? 
speaker2: do we need to provide you with some more motivation?
speaker3: you wouldn't want to put that lovely bride of yours through a day like she had today again, now would you?
speaker1: you'll never get away with this. we have friends and family. they know where we went. they'll come looking for us. they'll find us!
speaker2: that may very well be... but they won't find your car.

speaker1: oh baby, what did they do to you? i'm sorry. i'm so sorry. 
speaker2: are they gone?
speaker1: yeah. you're awake?

speaker1: i didn't swallow that she gave me. 
speaker1: oh my mike...
speaker2: it's okay. i'm okay.
speaker1: you're not okay. we're not okay.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: maybe... we should just give them what they want?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: if it stops them from hurting you and me... maybe we should...
speaker2: absolutely not. no way. forget the fact, that the moment you get pregnant, they'll kill me. then the moment you give birth, you're dead. beyond both of those reasons... ain't no way i am going to give them our child.
speaker2: for all my coward marriage moments... i've thought about our child. is that stupid? i picture what he'll be like...
speaker1: he?

speaker1: good morning, sam. 
speaker2: ain't no better than any of the other days, evelyn, so bring the "glee" down some, would ya?

speaker1: hey, sam, do you remember a virginia couple pass through here sometime friday? 
speaker2: friday? well...there was one couple, but they didn't say where they were from.
speaker1: gal's mother's called three times this morning. said she hasn't heard from her daughter since before she left and she didn't show up for work yesterday or today.
speaker2: she sure this was the park they were coming to?
speaker1: yup. woman's already offering up a reward.
speaker2: it. have her fax some photos up here. notify patrol.
speaker1: been a while since we had a couple go missing. twelve months ago the last?
speaker2: nine.

speaker1: we do appreciate your honesty, michael. and believe me, we understand your extreme situation, but... punishment's going to have to be handed down. 
speaker2: clyde, it's sam at base, come back.
speaker1: go for, clyde.
speaker1: restrain him.
speaker2: yeah, morning, clyde. got a missing person's report. young couple out of alexandria. we're printing up some flyers with their photos right now.
speaker3: i told you. i told they'd be coming.
speaker2: when you get a chance, grab some and let's start circulating, huh?
speaker2: clyde?
speaker1: copy that.
speaker1: get him in the other room. now.

speaker1: get rid of the dope. 
speaker2: morning, gentlemen. pardon me... afternoon.
speaker3: evelyn, damn, hurts looking at you.
speaker2: now with a line like that, it's a shocker i haven't already.
speaker3: you stone cold tease.
speaker2: was wondering if either of you had seen any hikers pass by in the last day or so?
speaker1: what's this about? evelyn hands them a flier.
speaker1: these two are missing?
speaker2: it would seem so. why, have you seen them?

speaker1: you talk to clyde about this? 
speaker2: all the rangers are on the lookout.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: pardon?
speaker1: how much they offering?
speaker2: don't exactly know. i'm guessing it's a fair amount.
speaker1: well, me and lonnie will keep a lookout for you too. anything we can do to help.
speaker3: you change you mind, i'll ride you raw.
speaker3: it'd be the best fifteen seconds of your life, darling!

speaker1: we're gonna have to double our efforts, here. 
speaker2: leave that to me.

speaker1: i think we have to have another... man to man discussion, here, michael. 
speaker1: seems as though, time is now factoring into our situation.

speaker1: we're not violent people, michael. it pains us to pain you. 
speaker2: i don't know... seems as though deacon and yourselves get a real kick out of it.
speaker1: now see, this is what i am talking about. it's your attitude. it's the disobedience, the cussing...sooner we get what we want, then no further harm has to fall upon you and your wife.
speaker2: way i see it, you need us alive. you need us, period. and now that park services and state police are looking for us, you're starting to panic,

speaker1: this is getting out of hand, y'all. nobody wanted what just almost happened to sheryl to happen. but, you keep dragging this thing out... 
speaker2: i sent deacon away for a bit. he knows he done wrong. you say right now that you are ready to perform your marital duties, then i'll keep him away.
speaker3: have you ever thought that doesn't want you to have a child? that's why he kills them before they're born. because you're insane monsters that don't deserve a child.
speaker2: you take that back!
speaker3: no.
speaker2: take it back.

speaker1: go ahead and torture me. there's absolutely no way i would ever give a child of mine to you. 
speaker2: how very brave. fine. i won't torture you. i'll torture her. i can bring back deacon. let him have her. plenty of other holes he can go into where a baby can't be made. ida grabs a nearby knife, walks up to sheryl.
speaker2: or maybe we can just start dicing. all we need is a healthy heart, brain and uterus. she don't need the rest of her fingers, or toes... or her nose, ears. i could carve out her eye right now.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: then you will give me my baby. my child, born in wedlock, saved from its sinner parents and raised to fear and give him praise.
speaker3: that's why you married us? so we could conceive our child in wedlock? the joke's on you... i'm already pregnant. eight weeks yesterday. clyde and ida stare disbelievingly at sheryl.
speaker2: you're lying.

speaker1: i was trying to find the right time to tell you. 
speaker2: no, no, no, no! this can't be. no!

speaker1: we shouldn't just go in. ain't right. 
speaker2: i'm going in. you don't want to, then don't. check round back or something.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: help! down here!

speaker1: ida... you know what we have to do? 
speaker2: no. i can give her an abortion. get rid of the child, make them conceive one in wedlock. and then we are right as rain.
speaker1: abortion? no. that we won't do.
speaker2: it'll work. ain't no sin to abort a demon.
speaker1: ida, writings on the wall here. michael's right. with a reward on the table, do you think brody and lonnie will be the only two coming? gonna have lots people looking for these two. we're gonna have to make it so no one can ever find them.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: we'll find another couple, ida.
speaker2: no. you promised me, clyde, this time was the one.
speaker1: it's too dangerous. we'll find another couple. a better one.
speaker2: it's not fair.

speaker1: clyde nods. they hug. 
speaker2: i'll do what needs to be done. you finish up here... and watch your time, rain's coming.

speaker1:  
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: no more ammo.

speaker1: i can't make it. 
speaker2: i'm not leaving you.
speaker1: clyde's walkie-talkie. it's probably upstairs. find it. call the ranger base. my gun. see if you can find our stuff. my gun's in my backpack, side pocket.
speaker2: what good's the gun? you tossed away the bullets.
speaker1: there's another box of ammo.
speaker2: mike...!?!
speaker1: let's get out of this alive first, then you can me out, okay?
speaker1: it's okay, baby. go.

speaker1: please, someone? is anyone there that can help? 
speaker2: this is ranger base, go again?

speaker1: sheryl turns away from ida, runs to mike's side. 
speaker2: you did it, baby. you saved me. you said you would and you did. stay with me, mike. stay with me.
speaker3: love you.
speaker2: well, if you love me... fight. please baby, fight.
speaker2: i'll be back in a second, mike.

speaker1: come on, baby. fight. 
speaker1: oh please

speaker1: sorry, but i just have to ask... you told the sheriff there was someone in on this whole thing with clyde and ida. big fella, scars all over him? mame? 
speaker2: why? what is it?
speaker1: you've had an exhausting night, why don't you...
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: we didn't find anybody like that in the yard or the house.
speaker2: no. it's not possible. she turns, looks around, but spies nothing...
speaker1: calm down. it's gunna be alright...
speaker2: you it's gonna be alright.

