speaker1: your majesty would wish to know the true facts concerning the island of hispanola, our first settlement in the new world, and the activities there of your servant, christopher columbus, admiral of the ocean sea, governor of that island. you will remember with what hopes and promises he beguiled us -- the truth is that he now presides over a state of chaos, degradation and madness beyond imagining. 
speaker1: from the beginning, columbus proved himself incapable of managing the affairs of the island. he appointed his brothers to important positions, at once injuring the pride and dignity of the nobles who had gone with him. he promised to build a city, the city of isabel, named after your majesty. what he actually built was nothing but a collection of huts, and that in the wrong place, for all of it was easily swept away by rain and mud. is that not so, brother buyl?
speaker2: yes, your honor.
speaker1: he promised gold. not finding the easy quantities he promised, columbus commanded each indian to pay an annual tribute. most being unable to, they were barbarously punished, against the express wish of your christian majesties...
speaker1: since provocation and injustice never ceases, many of the indians have fled to the forests, or have begun to slay the christians.
speaker3: could it be so?
speaker2: yes, your majesty.
speaker1: but there is worse. from the beginning, he forced the nobles to undergo physical labor, treating them equally with the indians, all of them reduced to slavery. when the nobleman adrian de moxica protested against such treatment... ... he was executed. is that not true also, brother buyl?
speaker2: yes, your honor. it is all true. all of it. i saw it with my own eyes.
speaker1: he has lost control. his great arrogance has led him into depravity. he encourages our soldiers to marry the native women. he promised a paradise, but he has made a full of all its horrors.
speaker3: is that the man i knew, treasurer sanchez?
speaker1: yes, your majesty.

speaker1: of all the words my father wrote and there were many, i remember these the most. "nothing that results from human progress is achieved with unanimous consent..." 
speaker1: "and those who are enlightened before the others are condemned to purse that light in spite of others..."
speaker1: there was a time when the new world didn't exist...

speaker1: ... the sun set in the west on an ocean where no man had dared to venture. and beyond that, infinity... pulling back, we discover: 
speaker1: once i asked my father where he wanted to go. and he replied: "i want to travel all over the seas. i want to get behind the weather..."

speaker1: diego! 
speaker2: diego! aren't you going to kiss your brother?
speaker3: diego, take fernando to the dining hall. he must be hungry.
speaker4: yes, father.
speaker3: diego is a bright boy -- a pleasure to teach -- but so serious... brothers should be raised together, colon. even brothers from different mothers...
speaker2: father, i am doing what i think is the best for him. and he has the teacher i would have chosen for myself.
speaker3: just be careful you don't lose him.

speaker1: i have something for you. 
speaker1: you will be heard at the university of salamanca...
speaker2: that's in a week!
speaker1: that's what it says.
speaker2: how did you manage it?
speaker1: with some difficulty. i had to promise them you were not a total fool. marchena pushes open a second door, hidden behind a wooden panel.

speaker1: why do you wish to sail west? 
speaker2: to open a new route to asia. at the moment there are only two ways of reaching it...
speaker2: by sea, sailing around the african continent -- the journey takes a year...
speaker2: or by land...
speaker2: ... but the turks have closed this route to all christians. trading with the orient has become arduous, if not dangerous. there is a third way...
speaker2: by sailing west across the ocean sea.
speaker1: how can you be so certain? the ocean is said to be infinite.
speaker2: ignorance! i believe the indies are no more than 750 leagues west of the canary islands.
speaker1: how can you be so certain?
speaker2: the calculations of toscanelli marin de tyr, esdras...
speaker1: esdras is a jew.
speaker2: so was christ!
speaker1: two minutes... and already you're a dead man. don't let passion overwhelm you, colon.
speaker2: i'll try to remember that, marchena...
speaker1: father marchena!
speaker2: passion is something one cannot control!
speaker1: you get so carried away when you are being contradicted!
speaker2: i've been contradicted all my life... eternity!
speaker1: only knows the meaning of such words, my son.

speaker1: diego. 
speaker1: would you like to come and stay with us?
speaker1: i'll do whatever makes you happy.
speaker2: i am happy, father.

speaker1: look, father! 
speaker2: fernando!
speaker2: fernando!

speaker1: executions. in the square. 
speaker1: they've agreed to see me in a week.
speaker1: i could be gone for years.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i haven't given you much of a life.
speaker2: well... that's true. i have a child by a man who won't marry me! who's always leaving...
speaker1: are we going to argue?
speaker2: i'd love to argue with you sometimes. but you're never here!
speaker1: perhaps i was never meant to live with a woman...
speaker2: i find that hard to believe.

speaker1: you say asia can be found by sailing west? 
speaker2: yes, your eminence. the voyage should not take more than six or seven weeks.
speaker1: unfortunately, don colon, that is precisely where our opinions differ... are you familiar with the work of aristotle? erathostene? ptolemeus?
speaker2: i am, your eminence
speaker1: then you cannot ignore that according to their calculations, the circumference of the earth is approximately... 22,000 leagues or more. which makes the ocean... uncrossable.
speaker1: but you may have found new evidence proving that these men of knowledge are totally mistaken!
speaker2: your excellencies are aware of the statements of marin de tyr?
speaker3: we are.
speaker2: then you are also aware that his theories contradict ptolemeus... de tyr believes the ocean to be only 750 leagues...
speaker2: the florentine toscanelli and the french cardinal pierre d'ailly both think that marin de tyr is accurate in his calculations. and therefore, that the ocean can be crossed.
speaker4: gentlemen, let us suppose marin de tyr is right... are we here to examine this proposal or not?
speaker4: in your opinion, how long would the voyage be?
speaker2: seven weeks. six, during the summer months.
speaker1: marin de tyr is wrong -- and has been corrected many times over the centuries by the finest geographers. your voyage, don colon, would take a year!
speaker5: how would the crew survive without being able to land for fresh water? water is undrinkable after six weeks! you'd never be able to turn back!
speaker2: we wouldn't have to turn back! we would find land at this point!
speaker1: senor colon, an experienced captain such as yourself will understand our concern with the crew. i am not willing to have on my conscience the loss of men who would have relied upon our judgment.
speaker2: excellency, you are right.
speaker2: i am a seaman, not a scholar... but as a simple man craving for knowledge, i have read all the work of these renowned geographers and discovered that none of them could agree on the exact width of this ocean...
speaker2: therefore, as a modest man, i wonder: who is right?
speaker2: who is right? this question remains unanswered.
speaker2: your eminence, there is only one way to settle the matter. and that is to make the journey. i am ready to risk my life to prove it possible.
speaker1: your life, and that of others!
speaker2: if they agree to follow me, yes.
speaker6: suppose you cross this ocean. suppose you reach asia. what would spain do there?
speaker2: trade, your excellency. according to marco polo, the kingdom of china is one of the richest of the world. even the meanest buildings are roofed with gold.
speaker1: is that all that interests you?
speaker2: no. the portuguese have already discovered black-skinned people. i, too, will find other populations -- and bring them to the word of
speaker1: christopher -- christo ferens -- the bearer of the cross!
speaker7: and colon -- the one who populates!
speaker1: if intended our proximity to asia, do you believe he would have waited for you to show it to the world?
speaker2: did he not choose a carpenter's son to reveal himself to the world?
speaker1: so you consider yourself the chosen one?
speaker1: don't you realize your words could be considered heretical?
speaker2: asia can be found to the west -- and i will prove it.

speaker1: the treasurer of spain honors us with his presence. 
speaker2: the state has some reason to be interested in this man's proposition, your eminence...
speaker1: the judgment is ours!
speaker2: naturally. but i would really deplore the loss of such a potential opportunity for spain for a... dispute over a point of geography.
speaker1: he is a mercenary! did he not already try to convince the king of portugal of his absurd notions?
speaker2: indeed. the world is full of mercenaries -- and states often make use of them, when it benefits them. my only concern is the welfare and prosperity of spain.
speaker1: you would use your influence to assist this... intriguer?
speaker2: you know, your eminence, the fascinating thing about power, is that what can be given so effortlessly...
speaker2: ... can so easily be taken away.
speaker3: ... and therefore nothing could justify the participation of your highnesses in the venture that relies upon such feeble assumptions, and which any man of knowledge would take to be impractical... if not impossible.
speaker4: they didn't listen. they didn't want to listen!
speaker3: you mustn't give way to despair.
speaker4: wait! i've waited seven years already! how much longer do you want me to wait?
speaker3: if intends you to go, then you will go.
speaker4: 
speaker3: colon!
speaker4: all of you! you all set up theories based on what? you never leave the safety of your studies! go out! find out what the world is about and then tell me something i can listen to!
speaker4: these don't mean anything! they're full of assumptions! out of the heads of old men who've never been past the end of their gardens!
speaker3: no...! my books...!
speaker4: all of them! just lies!
speaker3: colon! don't!

speaker1: father? 
speaker2: sssshhhh...! one can't speak to a man doing penance.
speaker1: what can you do?
speaker2: nothing. that's the point, fernando.

speaker1: senor colon? 
speaker1: ah, thank i've been looking all over seville for you! never expected to find a sailor in a monastery, eh?
speaker1: name's pinzon, by the way. martin alonzo pinzon. i'm a ship owner from palos...
speaker1: is he a spy?
speaker1: what is it? are you a trappist?
speaker1: vow of silence...? penance?
speaker1: just my luck!
speaker1: listen. i'll do the talking for both of us. you just nod. agreed? just as i do with the wife.
speaker1: i know that the commission turned you down, right? what do you expect? you're a foreigner... but i want to help you.
speaker1: you wonder why i believe in you? hey, i am a seaman. and we don't like to be told where to go, and where not to go.
speaker1: i don't look like it, but i have friends at the court. the treasurer of aragon, for example. he finances me. his name's santangel. ever heard of him?
speaker1: he can get you an audience with the queen! you know why...? she owes him money. that's how it is. you -- me -- the queen -- the world and his mistress -- agreed?
speaker1: so. what do you say?
speaker2: where can i meet this man?
speaker1: immediately.

speaker1: these people built granada... centuries ago! it is a great victory over the moors, don colon -- and yet what a tragedy it is! 
speaker2: is this a good time to meet her?
speaker1: it couldn't be better. victors can't say no.

speaker1: rise...! come forward! 
speaker1: i should not even be listening to you, since my council said no. but santangel tells me you are a man of honor and sincerity... and sanchez, that you are not a fool.
speaker2: no more than the woman who said she would take granada from the moors.
speaker1: the ocean is uncrossable?
speaker2: what did they say about granada before today?
speaker1: that she was impregnable.
speaker1: i cannot ignore the verdict of my council.
speaker2: surely you can do anything you want.
speaker1: how little you know.
speaker2: may i speak freely?
speaker1: you show no inclination to speak otherwise!
speaker2: i know what i see. i see someone who doesn't accept the world as it is. who's not afraid. i see a women who thinks... "what if?"...
speaker1: a woman?
speaker2: forgive me... but you're the only queen i know.
speaker1: then we are equal... since you are the only sailor i know!
speaker1: how old are you, senor colon?
speaker2: thirty seven, your majesty... and you?
speaker1: thirty eight...
speaker1: you will be informed of our decision.
speaker2: actually, i thought you were younger than me!

speaker1: ... and he demands... he demands to be made a knight, with the right to bear the golden spurs! he will receive the title of don cristobal colon -- which will be extended to his descendants for ever more... 
speaker2: go on!
speaker1: he will be named great admiral of the ocean sea. viceroy of the west indies... governor of all islands or lands discovered or as will be discovered with his help...
speaker1: the highest titles of nobility, your excellency! to an immigrant sheltered by monks!
speaker2: furthermore he will receive one eight of all wealth or monies, precious gems, pearls, metals, spices and other lucrative sources conquered within the boundaries of his admiralty...
speaker2: it's very underdone.
speaker1: underdone! it's monstrous, excellency!
speaker2: no, the pheasant. it's almost raw.
speaker2: you worry too much, carvajal... the man will have to lower his demands.

speaker1: we have considered your -- demands very carefully, senor colon... your expectations are... excessive, in every way. 
speaker2: if i am right, my requests are fair!
speaker1: we have prepared our own contract...
speaker2: no...
speaker1: no?
speaker2: no...! i have waited too long, fought too hard. now you expect me to take all the risks while you take the profit! no... i will not be your servant!
speaker1: i remind you, senor colon, that you are in no position to bargain with me.
speaker2: i'm not bargaining!
speaker1: then you are too ambitious.
speaker2: and were you never ambitious, excellency? or is ambition only a virtue among the nobles, a fault for the rest of us?
speaker1: if you won't accept our proposal, we'll simply find someone who will.
speaker2: if you can do that, excellency -- i'll become a monk!
speaker3: you were right, don sanchez... his demands could never be granted.
speaker1: never, your majesty. although...
speaker1: ... although one may always renegotiate a contract. especially signed by royal hands.

speaker1: ... into a monk... 
speaker2: yes. it would be a pity, wouldn't it? call him back!

speaker1: she said yes. 
speaker2: thank
speaker1: if i ever come back, i swear i will...
speaker2: i'm not asking you to swear to anything.
speaker1: i don't want you to wait for me.
speaker2: that's something you can't decide.

speaker1: you can't go there! 
speaker2: why not?
speaker2: there aren't any monsters, fernando. the only monsters are in here... watch!
speaker1: i want to go with you!
speaker2: there'll be a time.
speaker1: you promise? do you swear on st. christopher...?
speaker1: do you swear on all the holy saints in heaven?
speaker2: yes... yes, i do... on all of them!

speaker1: in nomine patris et filius, et spiritus sancti. 
speaker2: forgive me, father. for i have sinned.
speaker1: i am listening, my son.
speaker2: father, i have betrayed my family. i betrayed my men. and i betrayed you.
speaker1: what are you saying?
speaker2: i lied. the journey will be longer than i said.
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: i am not sure... it could be twice the distance.
speaker1: may forgive you...! you must tell them! you must tell your men!
speaker2: if i tell them, they won't follow me. you know that i am right, father. you trust me...
speaker1: my son, my son... your certitudes are sometimes frightening... christopher, you must speak to them.
speaker2: you are bound by an oath, father.
speaker1: i believed in you...
speaker2: give me absolution.
speaker2: give me absolution, father!

speaker1: be good to your mother, fernando. do you promise? 
speaker2: speak to diego.

speaker1: diego! here! 
speaker2: take care of my investment, wherever you're going!
speaker1: i have to tell you santangel. i don't know where on earth i am going! they both laugh. a fisherman, standing in his shrimp-boat lets his hand slide gently along the gigantic hull. he stares up at the sailors leaning on the rail.
speaker3: vaya con dios! they wave back.

speaker1: due west, captain mendez. and may be with us... 
speaker2: be with us admiral.
speaker1: what is it mendez? speak!
speaker2: well... it's the men, sir. they wonder how you know our position. we've lost sight from land days ago...
speaker1: and what do you think mendez?
speaker2: well, i surely know what a quadrant is! but i've never seen it used at night before.
speaker1: come over here.
speaker1: now, find the north star. do you have it?

speaker1: don't move! a mistake of one degree and we'll be off 6,000 leagues! 
speaker1: what do you read?
speaker2: twenty eight.
speaker1: that's it. the twenty eighth parallel. and we'll follow it until we reach land.
speaker3: how do you know land is on the twenty eighth parallel?

speaker1: chicken-ass face! 
speaker1: 
speaker1: i never seen heat like this! not even in las minas!
speaker2: the water's going putrid in the barrels.
speaker1: you'll be drinking your own piss... for the glory of spain... and admiral colon...! bastard!
speaker1: what are you listening to, chicken ass?
speaker2: ah, leave him alone. he's doing no harm.
speaker1: with a face like that? i don't want you looking at me. you hear?
speaker1: he's the devil's child...
speaker2: we'll all go crazy...
speaker2: culo de galina es el hijo del demonio...

speaker1: we should have seen land. 
speaker2: we left three weeks ago, alonso.
speaker1: can't be that far, i say. also, i don't like the smell of the sea around here. smells like a bad sign...
speaker1: and why does this one take to the sea? nobody knows. never says a word...
speaker3: to your post! at once!

speaker1: mark. twenty nine, sir! 
speaker2: six hundred and twenty nine.

speaker1: six hundred and twenty nine! 
speaker2: six hundred and twenty nine, sir!
speaker3: i heard.
speaker2: captain, i don't understand.
speaker3: i think i do.

speaker1: continue rowing! 
speaker2: to where?
speaker3: captain pinzon requests permission to board.

speaker1: granted. 
speaker2: you lied! you cheated! we're way past 750 leagues!
speaker1: six days ago, yes.
speaker2: you must be mad...!
speaker1: we have to keep the hopes of these men alive!
speaker2: we're on the verge of a mutiny, colon!
speaker1: you think i don't know that?
speaker2: we're lost!
speaker1: the land is there. i know it!
speaker2: you don't know anything! listen colon, these are my ships, right? so i'm telling you we're turning back!
speaker1: and then what? half of the water has gone, the rest is nearly putrid!
speaker2: maria! i should have never listened to you!
speaker1: you never did. you did all the talking for both of us, remember?
speaker2: you bloody...
speaker1: pinzon, pinzon... all we can do now is go forward! think about that!
speaker2: you tell that to them!
speaker1: you're right. let the men decide.
speaker1: who gave you the order to come on board?
speaker3: doesn't want us to cross the ocean...! this voyage is cursed!
speaker1: cursed?
speaker3: we set sail for greed. has abandoned us. the voyage is cursed. there are signs...
speaker1: this boy has the voice of an angel. what comes out of his mouth is blessed, alonso. what comes out of your is evil.
speaker1: listen to me! every man is afraid who does something for the first time. but those who overcome their fears, will find their rewards. i do not know if it is will that we cross this ocean -- but i am certain it is the devil who puts fears into our hearts...
speaker1: this jacket to the first man who sights land! i want a man up that mast day and night.
speaker1: you start first.
speaker4: alonso! jaime! don't let this wind escape us.
speaker2: you lucky bastard...

speaker1: mendez! mendez! 
speaker1: land...

speaker1: by the... by the grace of... 
speaker1: in the name of their gracious majesties of castille and aragon, and by all the powers vested in me, i claim this island and name it san salvador. the men cheer as the flags are rammed into the sand, flapping in the wind. columbus starts to walk towards the jungle, and in silence the rest follow.

speaker1: arquebuses! 
speaker2: colon!

speaker1: gold...! gold! 
speaker2: give it to him!

speaker1: cuba! cuba! 
speaker2: say not here! cuba!
speaker3: what is it? a tribe? an island?
speaker2: island. far.

speaker1: help him! 
speaker2: do something! help him!
speaker3: he dead.

speaker1: utapan! wait! 
speaker2: well... you'll have to continue without me...
speaker1: no. it's enough. what would you say to a drop of jerez, pinzon?
speaker2: and a nice slice of santa fe lamb! i'd sell my soul for it. help me up. i've got to piss, gold.

speaker1: you come! you speak first! 
speaker2: tell the chief we thank him.
speaker1: chief knows.
speaker2: tell him his country is very beautiful. tell him we are leaving men here -- to build a fort.
speaker2: tell him we will return very soon. many of us.
speaker1: chief says -- how many?
speaker2: thousands.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: to bring the word of
speaker1: chief says -- he has a
speaker2: ... and also to bring medicine.
speaker1: chief says...
speaker2: he has medicine. tell him we admire his people.
speaker1: chief says he knows you like his... women...
speaker2: that's a beginning...

speaker1: get below! all of you! go! 
speaker1: stay with me!
speaker1: we may have to cut it!
speaker1: now go!
speaker1: i said -- below deck, mendez! mendez crawls away.
speaker1: one... two... three... four...
speaker1: you!
speaker1: one... two... three... four... five...

speaker1: it won't be easy to get rid of your prophet now, don sanchez. 
speaker2: on the contrary, your eminence. it seems to me the man is preparing his own cross.

speaker1: you must not inhale, but simply allow the palate to enjoy the flavor of the tobacco... 
speaker2: and you say this is an indian vice? by i don't see any kind of pleasure that would make this a sin.
speaker1: the indians have no such word, don moxica.
speaker3: do they have such thoughts?
speaker1: they come and go as naked as the day created them...
speaker1: they don't see sin in their nakedness. they live according to nature, in a never ending summer. the islands are covered with trees, filled with blossoms and fruits.
speaker1: these are gifts for your majesty.

speaker1: si! si! muy bien! excellente! 
speaker2: you defend yourself admirably...
speaker3: ... for a commoner?
speaker2: to your second expedition.
speaker2: don colon -- don alonso de bobadilla. a man who knows our laws.
speaker4: i understand that you will soon be appointing governors for the islands? is it not so?
speaker3: forgive me, don bobadilla -- those positions have already been taken.
speaker4: may i ask by whom?
speaker3: bartolome and giacomo colon.
speaker4: i trust they are men of quality.
speaker3: but we do have a lack of notaries. you should contact my administration.
speaker2: don bobadilla is already a judge, my dear don cristobal.
speaker3: good! we are also in need of judges. except there are no thieves!
speaker4: i see i was mistaken. don colon has no need for my services... and he walks off. sanchez fills his mouth with a slice of ham.
speaker2: you seem to have a special talent for making friends.
speaker3: what...? do i have so many already?
speaker2: to rise so high, in so short a time, is a dangerous occupation. a little hypocrisy goes a long way.

speaker1: you might have given us a choice! 
speaker2: bartolome is stronger, more capable than i will ever be...
speaker3: i need both of you. what are you afraid of? we are living what we always dreamt of.
speaker2: you know i never shared those dreams with you.
speaker3: are you saying you refuse to help?
speaker1: you bastard... you always had your own way...
speaker3: let me show you something.

speaker1: of course... of course... we'll see to it... yes... thank you... soon... soon... 
speaker1: now -- you tell me. who can i trust? we're brothers! we must be a house. a bloodline! in this country one can't exist alone! i need you...! both of you! he walks then to the balustrade. the cries from the courtyard down below subside... some of the applicants begin to look up, aware of his presence.
speaker2: where is the admiral? has anyone seen the admiral?
speaker1: he is here! what is it?
speaker3: admiral! the horses have arrived.
speaker1: i know. i saw them! who did we hire today?
speaker4: thirty blacksmiths, twenty eight halberdiers, twenty carpenters, a hundred farmers, twenty miners... and doctor chanca, the royal surgeon.
speaker1: the royal surgeon? then we can count on royal health!

speaker1: he's growing up! 
speaker1: beatrix, i want to ask you something.
speaker2: you don't usually ask.
speaker1: i can arrange for the queen to take fernando and diego into her service.
speaker1: it is a great honor. we could not hope for anything better.

speaker1: is this your new world, don colon? 
speaker2: these animals should be shown what savagery can be!
speaker3: three heads for every life taken.
speaker2: no mercy! let's find them.
speaker4: no guevara. there will be no revenge.
speaker1: we lost cousins, friends. we will wash this in blood.
speaker4: if you want to keep your head on your shoulders, you'll do as i say.
speaker4: moxica, i lost friends too... thirty nine brave men who trusted me.
speaker4: you want a war? fine. we are a thousand. they outnumber us by ten!
speaker1: we don't need to know.
speaker4: we came here to stay! to build! not to start a crusade. in this forest, there is enough danger to sweep us away in days! so we will be brave and swallow our grief. and in the name of those who died, we will accomplish what we came for.

speaker1: they here. 
speaker2: ask the chief what happened to my men?
speaker1: another tribe made war on them...
speaker3: have mercy on their souls...
speaker4: the monkey is lying.
speaker4: we should kill them, don colon.
speaker2: no...! you'll do it my way. tell the chief we will not harm his people, even though we have the power to do it.
speaker2: we will work with his people. we want peace. ask the chief if he understands?
speaker1: he understands.
speaker2: ask him if he will help.

speaker1: don moxica -- we need your horse. 
speaker1: we can't raise the wheel without it.
speaker2: my horse doesn't work.
speaker1: don moxica -- we all have to work.
speaker2: you did not hear me, don colon. not my horse.
speaker1: forgive me, don moxica. but it was your horse i was talking about.
speaker1: thank you, don moxica.

speaker1: to the governor of the mosquitoes! 
speaker1: do you want her?
speaker2: to the new world, my friend! to the new world!

speaker1: nima's a good cook! 
speaker2: she's more than that!
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: eat! i'll tell you later.
speaker1: i'd like to know what i'm eating.
speaker3: iguana.
speaker3: what wrong with it? the indians eat it!
speaker1: i'm not an indian.
speaker2: he wishes he were back in the seminary. priests always eat well. and they have very good cellars.
speaker1: nothing grows here! everything rots in the ground. the wheat and vines wither before we can harvest them.
speaker3: we've got to learn to live like the indians. eat your iguana!

speaker1: how much gold have we found? 
speaker2: not enough to justify a single shipment.
speaker1: perhaps it doesn't exist anywhere but in my imagination.
speaker2: then let's hope not... what will happen if we can't find enough gold?
speaker1: then i'm governor of the mosquitoes.

speaker1: what kind of disease is this? 
speaker2: i don't know. it seems almost as if we have exchanged diseases with the indians. they die of our most common cold, and we of their plague.
speaker1: forgive us!

speaker1: it seems to be caused by intimacy with the native women, your majesty. 
speaker2: will he survive?
speaker1: no, your majesty. they go mad -- then they die. there is nothing we can do.
speaker3: every ship returns with a cargo of sick and dying. but with no gold! the new world proves expensive, your majesty.
speaker2: we weren't expecting immediate profits, were we? we must have faith. we must give time for time.
speaker4: he says he has not found any!
speaker5: he's lying!
speaker5: bring him here!
speaker5: tell him to put his hands on the table. like this!

speaker1: tell them i want them to watch this! 
speaker2: don't moxica! you can't...

speaker1: in one act of brutality, you have created chaos. tribes who were fighting each other are now joining forces against us! all that because of your criminal savagery! 
speaker2: savagery is what monkeys understand.
speaker1: you'll be held in detention, deprived of your privileges and possessions. until you are returned to spain where you will be judged.
speaker2: you will regret this.

speaker1: moxica is right. our ways don't work! 
speaker1: can you find them?
speaker2: you have to find them, utapan. look what they did!
speaker3: you did the same to your
speaker2: we have to stop this war.
speaker2: do you know them?

speaker1: you know what they will say in spain about my death -- don't you? 
speaker1: you are nothing! you will never inherit your titles. we are everything. we are immortal!

speaker1: i wish to go back with them, don colon. i have no desire to remain in this godless place. 
speaker2: you may do as you please, brother buyl -- though your departure will not help me to make it more godly.
speaker1: you treat christians equally with heathen savages. you execute members of the nobility. and what do you offer in return?
speaker2: a new world, brother buyl.
speaker1: nobody wants one...! only you!

speaker1: perhaps hope only exists in the journey. when it begins, everything is still possible -- every expectation; every dream... 
speaker1: this is not how i imagined it to be.

speaker1: utapan! 
speaker1: utapan, won't you speak to me? you used to know how to speak to me.
speaker2: you never learned how to speak my language.

speaker1: ... but there is worse. he ordered the execution of five members of the nobility... 
speaker2: is this true, brother buyl?
speaker3: yes, your majesty. it is all true. i saw it with my own eyes.
speaker2: then, what do you suggest, don sanchez?
speaker1: he must be replaced.
speaker2: and who would you think of, for such a task?

speaker1: don alonso de bobadilla. 
speaker2: yes... i remember...
speaker1: my letters of appointment.
speaker2: appointment to what?
speaker1: viceroy of the west indies.
speaker2: congratulations. then i am free to search for the mainland.
speaker1: didn't you learn? the mainland was discovered. weeks ago. by another italian. i forgot his name.
speaker3: amerigo vespucci, excellency.
speaker2: how far from here?
speaker1: i am not a seaman. but i heard it is no more than a week at sea. i hope you are not too disappointed.
speaker2: how could i be? the mainland has been found. exactly as i said it would.
speaker1: i am afraid this is not the worst news.

speaker1: father? 
speaker2: fernando...! my god...! he laughs, overcome with joy. embraces diego.
speaker2: a man! diego, how did this happen?
speaker3: santangel is going to see the queen.
speaker2: good! i have to go back!
speaker3: go back?
speaker2: i have to explore the mainland.
speaker1: this time with me!
speaker3: in your present state it is madness, father!
speaker1: nobody is forcing you to come with us.
speaker3: i can't go anyway.
speaker1: she's very beautiful! the queen has very good taste. diego is getting married.
speaker2: i am happy for you, diego.

speaker1: granted his faults. yes, a hundred times! but the man is still remarkable. 
speaker1: all he asks is a chance to explore this... mainland.
speaker2: it does not belong to him.
speaker1: in a way, it does, don sanchez. i beg your majesty to receive him. to hear him... he will make no more demands. he has changed. he is penitent.
speaker2: penitent...? he is suing us for breach of contract!
speaker3: is he?
speaker3: really?

speaker1: rise... please... 
speaker2: now i do look older than you.
speaker1: we have decided to allow you to undertake another voyage to the new world...
speaker1: but without your brothers. nor are you to return to santo domingo or any of the other colonies. you may explore the continent.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: there is one thing i'd like to understand... why do you want to go back, after all this?
speaker2: your majesty -- some men are content to read about things. i must see them with my own eyes. i cannot be other than i am.

speaker1: i know, i should not tolerate his impertinence. 
speaker2: then why?
speaker1: because he is not afraid of me.

speaker1: all i have to do is call the guards. 
speaker2: call them.
speaker1: i am not afraid of you. you are nothing but a dreamer.
speaker2: look out of that window.
speaker2: what do you see?
speaker1: roofs... towers, palaces...
speaker2: all of them created by people like me.
speaker2: no matter how long you live, sanchez, there's something that will never change between us. i did it! you didn't!

speaker1: you're so beautiful! i can't believe no other man has ever taken you away from me... 
speaker2: they tried... but i didn't let them.
speaker2: they took everything...
speaker1: not everything... do you think i care? i'm a free man again. riches don't make a man rich, they only make him busier...
speaker1: how much i've missed you!

speaker1: one chair. one table. what more can a man expect, when he tries to sue the crown? 
speaker2: i owe you everything, santangel...
speaker1: on the contrary. it is i who owe you everything. through you, i have been an adventurer, an explorer! it's true i shall never see the new world... but it's here... and here...
speaker1: what you are, colon, is a sailor, a discoverer, a man of imagination... not a politician. you weren't meant to govern -- you cannot be all things to all men.
speaker1: i wish you could have compromised. it would have made your life easier...
speaker2: but as least we haven't been bored, have we?

speaker1: west... southwest, captain mendez... 
speaker2: steady as she goes...
speaker3: how are you feeling, fernando?
speaker4: not bad.
speaker3: you know what i always used to do?
speaker3: swallow a piece of pork fat on a string. it always worked.

speaker1: tierra...! tierra! 
speaker2: the mainland...

speaker1: what's he doing? 
speaker2: he's drawing an isthmus... he's saying we're on an isthmus.
speaker1: we can't be.
speaker2: tell me what he's saying.
speaker3: he says -- water on the other side.
speaker2: ask him if he means a lake. a big lake.
speaker3: no. says those are lakes. water on other side big -- as wide as here.
speaker2: an ocean...? he's says it's an ocean?
speaker4: i don't understand.
speaker2: here is europe... and over here, the continent of asia. but there's something in between! another continent! we've found... another continent!
speaker4: father...
speaker2: there must be a passage to that other ocean.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: what is...?
speaker3: oh virgen maria... oh madre de dios... but as he vomits and cries, he notices:
speaker3: maria, y todos los santos...

speaker1: i... i have to see mendez. 
speaker1: your brother was right. i should have never taken you with me. i'll never forgive myself. never!
speaker1: will you ever forgive me?
speaker1: captain mendez!

speaker1: the sunset route to the new 
speaker1: ... west by south west for 750 leagues to santo domingo. from there, west north west, leaving san juan to the north, reaching the island of hispanola on the northern cape of san raphael... then onto the mainland, at the cape called gracias a dios...
speaker1: spain -- by your majesty's grace -- has confirmed for all humanity the existence of an unknown continent... tierra incognita...
speaker1: ... this continent was first discovered by a sailor commissioned by your majesty...
speaker1: his name... amerigo vespucci...

speaker1: my god...! i thought he was dead. 
speaker2: you can see for yourself.
speaker1: what a tragedy... what a waste of a life...
speaker2: a waste...? let me tell you something, arojaz. if your name, or mine, is ever remembered -- it will only be because of his.

speaker1: i suppose we're both old men now. 
speaker2: you'll always be older than me, father.
speaker2: have you ever forgiven me?
speaker1: yes. i forgave you a long time ago. you see, i was proud of you. you were like a willful child. you wouldn't accept what others told you. you had to find things out for yourself, hurting yourself -- and others -- in the process.
speaker1: do you remember when you said that people talk about the world, but never leave their gardens.
speaker1: more than ever i wonder what it is we do achieve by leaving our gardens... the world changes -- and yet it seems the same. we find new worlds, but fill them with the same people...
speaker2: i have to disagree.
speaker1: i knew you would.
speaker2: new worlds create new people.
speaker1: oh? so you are a new man?
speaker2: i don't know... i have the impression that i didn't change that much. i still can't accept the world as it is!
speaker1: bless you, and those like you!

speaker1: can't you stay with us a little? 
speaker2: i am busy inside.
speaker2: what is it, now? tell me...
speaker1: i can't keep my eyes off you. i would like to catch up with all the moments i didn't spend with you.
speaker1: what are you listening to?
speaker3: i am not listening, father. but i can't help hearing. fernando opens a letter and reads it quickly.
speaker3: it's diego... he is at the court, with santangel... he says they hope to get your privileges restored... and maybe the house.
speaker1: but how is he? and dona maria?
speaker3: fine, it seems. diego is thinking of starting a pearl trade, in santo domingo... he says he received many letters for you. some of your men, mostly.
speaker3: this one is from mendez!
speaker1: what does he say?
speaker3: he asks when he can come to visit you. he left his address.
speaker1: he never had one... except aboard my ships!
speaker3: i want you to tell me everything you remember, father. from the beginning. everything.
speaker1: really? i wouldn't know where to start... and yet...
speaker3: tell me the first thing that comes to your mind.
speaker1: i remember...

