speaker1: this is it. 
speaker2: why did it have to be these caves...
speaker3: is something wrong?
speaker1: let's get that first barrel.

speaker1: what's with the awkward silence? 
speaker2: you don't know?
speaker3: last winter, a man kidnapped a little girl and holed up in one of these caves. the cops had him pinned down and began to move in. this guy started shooting... but he wasn't aiming at the officers... ...he was firing at something inside.
speaker3: when the dust cleared, all they found was the little girl's shoes. with the feet still in 'em.
speaker1: ahh!!!
speaker1: assholes.
speaker3: hey, relax, i nearly myself when my boss pulled that one on me.
speaker2: i went well beyond nearly.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker1: once was plenty, fellas.
speaker3: shhhh...
speaker4: stop it right there! you will not mother nature one more day!
speaker3: whoa! whoa! whoa!
speaker5: mother nature is not a whore/don't dump in her any-more/mother nature is not a whore/don't dump in her any- more...
speaker3: take it easy! we have a permit!
speaker4: and we have an injunction from the state to prevent any dumping in these caverns! this is virgin land! the aqueducts in these caves bring drinking water to our families, and its piping provides drainage for our farms that enrich this barren land! and it won't be tainted by waste of any kind! not now! not ever!
speaker3: fine, just back off!
speaker3: let's roll... now-now-now!
speaker3: how do you guys always know where we're going?
speaker4: i'll tell ya next time! now move it!
speaker4: score one for the green team!!!
speaker6: hey, man, that was righteous, but i need a shot with the sign up.
speaker4: we saved you today, ol' gal.
speaker7: oh,
speaker4: sister, why do you always swing for the fences?
speaker7: oh my, it looks like diamonds!
speaker4: give me the keys!!!

speaker1: click. the pay phone goes dead. 
speaker2: son of a -- in with anger, out with love.

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: shut up, fag.
speaker3: you're late!
speaker2: don't dilly-dally then. rack 'em!

speaker1: i mean, we'd been together for so long and then... bang! she drops me. since then, it's been like a country song: she's gone, the car's repossessed, and a father figure made a pass at me. i'm not saying i ever had it. but i have definitely lost it. now i haul this swill from armpit to armpit. i used to be a model for christ's sake. 
speaker2: for what, may i ask?
speaker1: jc penny. spring wear.
speaker2: you know, chach, catching you at this low point is pure serendipity.
speaker1: why is that?
speaker2: because i take the rubble of man and build superstars. in my briefcase here is a doorway to a self-help sensation. give me a minute, because i'd like to buy you a drink and change your life forever. i have a brochure --
speaker3: save it. we don't deal in pamphlets 'round here. we stick to chemistry. and his drinks are on me.

speaker1: with coach stumped, bartender turns to beer guy. 
speaker2: was that the last keg?
speaker3: yup, one keg of beast for the basement, then the truck's dry.
speaker2: if you're stayin', move the truck, boss gets about you using primo parking.
speaker3: right, 'cause this joint's hopping.

speaker1: ...the search for the missing protesters will be further complicated by the unstable conditions of these deep tunnels. thus far, no sign of life has been detected, yet town officials are still optimistic. 
speaker1: on a brighter note, or should i say a darker note, tomorrow's solar eclipse will bring out adults and children alike for a citywide fair of this metrological event. stay tuned for our man on the street to take a closer look...

speaker1: listen, bud. i got a load ready to move and your man's not here. 
speaker2: he's coming. relax. and if he doesn't show --
speaker1: we got a problem.

speaker1: he said there was no reason i had to stay a teller and that if i did good work and didn't mess up, i could become an assistant manager within three years. can you believe that? 
speaker2: that sounds great.

speaker1: that sounds like i could be an assistant manager at the lake arrowhead casino for knowing the alphabet to g! i'll be twenty in three months... 
speaker2: just bring the whole bottle.

speaker1: if i could made that kind of money, i'd be in hollywood next week. 
speaker2: 'round here, there are ways. boss man winks at belle. pure sleaze.

speaker1: that cash is gonna look much better in my pocket. 
speaker2: ya know, that deer only looks scared when you're in the room.
speaker3: excuse me, please.
speaker1: 

speaker1: that's all she wrote... 
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: ohhh, now that's a rough one.
speaker1: that's impossible!
speaker2: yoh anga will be yoh downfah. go again?
speaker1: it! no!
speaker2: oh, come on. crape diem!

speaker1: wake up! check your pants! 
speaker2: get outta here.
speaker1: what's that? wha'cha say? huh? how much for the whole night, grandma?
speaker3: you should be so lucky.
speaker2: this one will stun ya, but this one will put ya to sleep.
speaker1: whoa!
speaker1: you boys wanna try your luck at the loot?
speaker1: come on, i'll even throw with my left hand.
speaker1: nothin' but a bunch of butts and in here!

speaker1:  
speaker2: don't sweat it, just clean it up before he's done.

speaker1: tuffy puts headphones over his ears. 
speaker2: keep these on, sweetheart.
speaker3: mommy, i want nemo.
speaker2: mommy's working on it.

speaker1: let's get this over with. 
speaker2: i love a woman with enthusiasm.
speaker3: i got two hundred bucks says none of you can beat me!
speaker4: hey! get quiet or get out.
speaker3: c'mon guys --

speaker1: unless you people want to die you'll do what i say and you'll do it fast! 
speaker2: you hold it right there, mister.
speaker1: a storm of hell's coming down on this place any minute!
speaker2: drop the canon!
speaker1: i'm not armed now, just hear me out.
speaker2: i'll drop you and not even think about it!
speaker1: let me explain!
speaker2: you got one second to --
speaker1: take a good look and listen to me! there's at least a four of these things out there!
speaker1: i saw one of them tear up five men like they were corn on the cob! i don't know what they are. i don't know where they came from. all i do know is that these are fast, nasty, and hungry.
speaker1: and they can fly. not to mention they got claws like ginsu knifes and more teeth than a chainsaw.
speaker1: they're like blood hungry biker tattoos come to life. they're clocking us. right now. and we have to lock this bar down! that means doors, windows, drains, and basements. we have to do it fast!
speaker1: you! get on that phone. call the cops, national guard, townies, whoever kicks and get 'em out here.
speaker1: any questions?
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i'm the hero --

speaker1: i got you! 
speaker2: got 'cha!

speaker1: you! 
speaker2: you'll hit her!

speaker1: what the was that? 
speaker2: the jungle has a new king.

speaker1: is it clear?! 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: is there a gun pointing at you?
speaker2: nah, i got the gun.
speaker1: alright it! who shot me!? who did it!?
speaker1: my foot is gone! who shot me? who shot me!?
speaker2: her fella.
speaker3: my husband...
speaker1: well, where's the sonuvabitch!?
speaker3: he's dead.
speaker1: what? what the happened down here?!
speaker4: i didn't do it! it was monsters, asshole!
speaker1: christ on the cross... someone make sense.
speaker3: easy. we're surrounded by something the likes none of you have ever seen before. some kind of animals. real fast, volatile, predators. one went through three of your patrons like nothing.
speaker1: so, your dead hubby shot me twice, three of my customers have been eaten, and there are angry creatures outside?
speaker3: he only shot you once.
speaker1: huh?
speaker3: he shot you the other time.
speaker2: it was an accident. sorry.
speaker5: look at it!
speaker1: fan-fuckin-tastic.
speaker6: my what is that?
speaker3: that's one piece of four problems.
speaker1: please elaborate.
speaker3: that head over there, that's the oldest of the bunch, looked like the grandpa. we caught the little one, junior, in the cooler there. as we've seen, what he lacks in size he more than makes up for in speed.
speaker2: and the rest of 'em?
speaker3: unfortunately, the worst of 'em are still outside.
speaker3: the next one is taller, but all out of proportion. like a "teen beast."

speaker1: he was spastic, clumsy, but deadly just the same. 
speaker1: i just took the eye out of the mother. she calculates, guiding the attacks.

speaker1: if you are face to face with her, dive left. 
speaker2: and the last one is the --
speaker1: father. the biggest, the strongest...

speaker1: no sign of any weaknesses. no sign at all. he's an eating machine. 
speaker2: of all the friggin' bars to be stuck in.
speaker1: that's not it. four are here, but there's three others... which i can't account for.
speaker1: we need to lock this place down. is everyone in this room?
speaker3: oh my my son! my son!
speaker1: wait!
speaker3: cody! mommy's coming! mommy's coming!
speaker1: stop her!
speaker4: hey!

speaker1: mommy -- 
speaker2: oh sweetheart! what was i thinking? mommy is never gonna let you go!
speaker3: let's lock off this room.

speaker1: it. 
speaker2: beer guy stares at the bile covered bartender.
speaker3: oh
speaker4: are you -- heroine puts a hand up to silence coach.
speaker1: just let her be... please. is that the only phone?
speaker5: the back phone is wrecked, too.
speaker6: this is really happening. i can't believe this is really happening.
speaker7: what'd you say?
speaker8: i didn't say anything.
speaker9: thank you, but i don't need any help --
speaker6: what's this? a power magnet or something?
speaker9: no. it's nothing.
speaker6: i didn't peg you for a con man.
speaker9: hey, it pays more than the couch.
speaker6: lots of stuff around here does.
speaker10: here!
speaker10: hey!
speaker11: back off!
speaker3: so, what now? did those things leave?
speaker12: why don't you go check it out?
speaker3: no.
speaker11: i have a signal! i have -- diane? diane listen to me... get the kids and get in the basement... do it right now...
speaker11: i'll explain later. not now! i'm at a bar... look... shut up! just shut
speaker11: okay. okay. look now, i gotta get outta here! i gotta go! my wife... see my wife is alone... she could be in trouble. i gotta go!
speaker1: i wouldn't do that.
speaker11: you,
speaker1: you can risk your life, but not mine! my daughter's no more than twenty miles from here waiting for me. i have just as much reason to leave this place as you do. but i also know that if they're here, then they're not there yet.
speaker1: you understand me?
speaker11: get the off...
speaker1: you understand me!?
speaker11: yes!
speaker1: now pull that tough boy again and i'll slice you from neck to nuts!
speaker11: you can't keep me here. this is this is
speaker1: we can't risk letting them in.
speaker11: right.
speaker12: anything?
speaker9: yeah, you got it.
speaker6: see! this has to be isolated. that's a local broadcast. on tv: the newscaster reads the teleprompter.
speaker13: and now, we head to our man on the scene with a live look at tomorrow's event in red mountain.
speaker1: my daughter's in red mountain.
speaker13: can you hear us? apparently we're having some technical difficulties...
speaker1: oh no.
speaker13: oh, there we go!
speaker14: that's right, the crowds are lining up early to witness tomorrow's meteorological phenomenon.
speaker14: but always remember, don't look straight into the sun because a special filter is needed to avoid damaging your cornea.
speaker14: and we're all looking forward to it tomorrow. back to you.
speaker13: thank you. and in other news...
speaker15: that studio's local, we can call in.
speaker16: i have a short wave radio upstairs.
speaker10: i'm calling them... it's ringing!
speaker15: they'd have a police scanner.
speaker10: hello? yes, we're at the united -- on tv: the newscaster continues his routine.
speaker13: ...it has been reported that the power outage --
speaker10: oh no! oh no!
speaker1: keep it together! i came from the east. that studio is south of here. for all we know, north and west are okay.
speaker15: an associate of mine was coming in from the north, ain't heard a word from him in hours.
speaker1: so, that leaves the west.
speaker17: and red mountain. your daughter.
speaker1: right.
speaker3: this is depressing.
speaker16: i've got some tools and extra planks in the kitchen, if we're on the same page here.
speaker1: let's work.

speaker1: we'll it ain't pretty... 
speaker2: but its got teeth.
speaker3: i think it's hungry again.
speaker4: we have to kill it. can you help?
speaker2: fire in the hole!
speaker3: i think we got --
speaker5: you're welcome.
speaker6: it took all that? all those bullets? how can we possibly fight off the others?
speaker4: aim for their orifices. eyes, ears and mouth. from what i've seen, it's their only weakness.
speaker7: looks like they're soft on the inside like any other animal. trick is to get in there and do the damage.
speaker8: maybe we don't have to fight them.
speaker3: right, let's just call 'em names. coach steps forward, poised to make the sale.
speaker9: ladies and gentlemen, if i may have your attention.
speaker9: we have to think outside the box here. we don't need to fight them, we need to scare them. scare them right back. this is a species stand- off. we just need to show them we're not vulnerable. that we're formidable.
speaker10: how?
speaker9: i need a stick.
speaker9: stand back.
speaker9: let's get that board down.
speaker4: what are you doing?
speaker9: showing superiority. the scent of their dead may drive them away.
speaker11: i don't see them.
speaker9: come on. come onnnnnn.
speaker8: is there a call, or something?
speaker3: see that you monkey fucks! that's what you get when you mess with us! woman or man, i don't give a don't make me gay because you'll be sucking my
speaker12: sweet...
speaker13: whoosh! junior is swiped from the handmade pike.

speaker1: it's working. i think it's working. 
speaker2: you see? what i tell you?

speaker1: good christ! they're cannibals! 
speaker2: oh dear...

speaker1: oh... my... 
speaker2: what are they doing now?

speaker1: get back! 
speaker2: any more ideas, animal planet?
speaker3: i-i-i was just being proactive...
speaker4: hey, you weren't helpin'!
speaker2: go douche.
speaker5: what the now?
speaker6: we're stuck in here. that's what.
speaker7: hey, miss?
speaker7: if you don't mind me asking, how did you run into these things?
speaker8: more importantly, how did you run away from these things?
speaker1: well, it all started about forty hours ago...

speaker1: mommy will pick you up tomorrow night, okay baby? 
speaker1: hello? charlie?
speaker2: holy mother of...
speaker1: we barricaded ourselves in the cellar. then it was just listening. we heard those things destroy an entire heard of livestock. they just kept coming. closer and closer, consuming anything in the way. slashing, feeding and licking the bones clean. just when we said our prayers, the first ray of sun hit the house...

speaker1: what's goin' on? the pumps are off. 
speaker2: there's nobody here --
speaker3: they've been here!
speaker1: turn on the pump!

speaker1: we had no time. all we knew was the sun was dropping and we had to get enough fuel to make it through the night at 90 miles per hour... 
speaker2: it down you metal it down.

speaker1: move it! 
speaker1: get in the car, baby.

speaker1: close the roof! 
speaker2: 
speaker2: we made it!
speaker1: it must have smelled the blood or something. we buried the body and got back on the main road when...

speaker1: break! 
speaker1: go! go! go!
speaker1: look out!

speaker1: and that's how i ended up here. 
speaker2: and the head?

speaker1: i don't want to talk about that. 
speaker2: so, your husband ditched you?
speaker1: no. it was wild out there. no time to think. we just moved. he didn't leave me. he just ran.
speaker2: well, justice is funny.
speaker3: the three from the gas pump are over at the tv station? and you say there's four here, huh?
speaker1: it appears so.
speaker4: there's five here now, actually.
speaker5: yeah, thanks for that.
speaker6: hey, you lived on a farm, right?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker7: do you think they're gone? i haven't heard anything for a while, maybe they're gone.
speaker8: well, maybe they migrate?
speaker1: as long as it's dark, they're around. they hide, wait for you to drop your guard, and then attack.
speaker9: how can you be so sure? you said yourself this started a day ago.
speaker1: we learned fast.
speaker5: we? we learned fast? you are all that is left of we. no offense pocohantas, but i think someone else should play "chief" tonight. someone that knows the lay of the land. like me.
speaker1: fine.
speaker7: maybe these things are like locusts or something and only come out for a few days to feed. this could just be a part of their life cycle.
speaker8: somebody's gotta know something about these things. this stuff just doesn't happen out of the blue.
speaker5: you!
speaker10: wha?
speaker5: you gotta know somethin', you're old.
speaker10: i don't know a thing.
speaker5: old people know stuff like this. legends, tall tales, like that.
speaker10: no!
speaker5: spill it!
speaker10: i don't know anything!
speaker5: how 'bout you? or do i have to get rough?
speaker11: heavens no!
speaker5: come on! think back!
speaker10: if i throw a stick, will you go away?
speaker5: that's just horse
speaker1: relax, they don't know anything.
speaker5: yeah... allegedly.
speaker6: hey, where was your farm?
speaker1: east. why?
speaker6: did you ever slaughter? slaughter livestock?
speaker1: previous owners did, i think.
speaker4: what are you talking about?
speaker6: slaughterhouse run-off used to be drained into piping that ran through the mountains.
speaker6: earthquakes often cracked the piping and those flow lines were condemned, but never drained.
speaker4: cheese n' rice...
speaker9: i still don't get it.
speaker6: what i am saying is... there's a distinct possibility that what we are up against is the result of steady stream of blood and tissue that has been leaking into the caves. and a day ago... something broke out.
speaker5: the first order of business is gettin' a big tampon in that cave!
speaker6: nope, that wouldn't do it.
speaker2: i wouldn't do that.
speaker5: they're probably on to the next buffet by now. there's a retirement home up the road, they'd be easy pickings.
speaker1: careful.
speaker7: i'm telling you, i don't see a thing --

speaker1: everyone stay in the middle of the room! off the walls! now! 
speaker1: now, does everyone agree that they are still out there?
speaker1: 'eh, chief?
speaker2: ...duh.
speaker3: he's out cold.
speaker4: i know some first aid if we have a kit. do we?
speaker5: in the kitchen, under the sink.
speaker1: no one goes anywhere alone. least of all, unarmed.
speaker6: there's some sweats in my bag behind the bar.
speaker7: thanks.
speaker8: you're a clever man. why do you take from him?
speaker9: yeah, he's an ass, but he's my brother. que sera-sera.
speaker8: your brother, huh?
speaker9: yep.
speaker8: same parents?
speaker9: look man, i read books. he reads bumper stickers.
speaker1: alright, we need to stay alert and for everyone to take a role. you gotta have some guns or weapons around here.
speaker5: i got my .38 here. that's six shots and two refills. downstairs, i have locker with a sawed-off and some gardening tools. maybe a few boxes of shells.
speaker10: i got shells, too. box and a half tops. machete behind the bar.
speaker1: okay, well that's something.
speaker8: so we've got guns, kitchen knives, pipes, fire and sticks.
speaker11: i might be able to do something with the bottles.
speaker12: you're gonna need a whole lot more than that to get outta here alive. the crowd turns to face grandpa and his wife.
speaker2: oh, now you have something to say?
speaker12: you young'uns worry about weapons, i'm thinkin' 'bout strategy.
speaker2: oh? and what's that?
speaker12: sit still, look less like a meal.
speaker2: that's for bears and sharks, chunky chew.
speaker1: alright, what else do we have? can we somehow contact the outside world?
speaker3: i can't get anybody. i don't even know if i have a signal anymore.
speaker11: i have a cb in my truck, we could get some help out here.
speaker10: who the would you call?
speaker11: anyone.
speaker2: do you drive a short beer bus or something? you go out there, you get eaten. you stay in here, you get eaten. anyone comes to help, they get eaten. don't you see a pattern here, spuds makenzie?
speaker11: then i guess we should just give up.
speaker2: believe me, i'd love to save the day and get some heroic snatch, but it's not in the cards, partner.
speaker1: you said you had a short wave radio.
speaker3: where?
speaker10: upstairs.
speaker5: go for it. it's by the far wall. channel 9 is the emergency frequency.
speaker1: good. i'm heading to the basement for supplies. and you're going upstairs.
speaker2: let's not get carried away...
speaker1: step up, chief.
speaker2: so that's how it is? fine! shotgun, please.
speaker2: you're coming with, portly. 'cause if i'm attacked, i want a fat man close by.
speaker10: i'll wait by the door.
speaker2: now who else is comin'?
speaker12: i'll go with ya.
speaker2: what are you gonna do? throw your teeth at 'em? sit down, cocoon.
speaker2: you! zorba! you're coming too! now gimme the keys.
speaker1: no. you're locked in.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: those two will be on the other side waiting for you. if you become food, i don't want the only set of keys in the belly of one of those things.
speaker2: don't get your hopes up.
speaker1: any volunteers to head into the basement with me?
speaker6: i will.
speaker11: that's not a good idea.
speaker5: with what happened upstairs --
speaker6: shut up! shut your mouth. you have no idea what is running through me right now. no idea. i'm ready.
speaker1: alright.
speaker8: count me in.
speaker11: me too.

speaker1: alright you two, i don't want to hear any of this, "oh, i dropped the key, wrong key, ain't no key here." when i want out, i want out, ok? 
speaker2: they're right here.
speaker3: we've got your back, bro.
speaker1: just keep 'em handy, ladies.
speaker4: bozo hustles in. the door shuts and locks.
speaker1: wish me luck...
speaker5: i'm okay! i'm okay!

speaker1: come on. come on. come on. 
speaker1: geeezzzus. okay, now. easy steps. easy breaths. easy steps.
speaker2: belle kneels next to the boss man.
speaker3: how are you holding up?
speaker4: well...
speaker3: what is this?
speaker4: morphine. my magic potion. i need a few drops.
speaker4: you should try a little, it'll calm your nerves. works like a charm.
speaker3: no other time than now, right?
speaker4: wait, before you do that, help me move. there's a small room off the kitchen where i can lay down.
speaker3: but --
speaker4: it's much safer in there. trust me.

speaker1: stay on your toes everybody. 
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: you don't need to know what that is. beer guy finds the dusty locker and opens it.
speaker3: there's a sawed-off shotgun in here.

speaker1: come on, bro. 
speaker2: bozo moves turtle slow.
speaker3: lamaze. lamaze. lamaze.

speaker1: if he doesn't shut up... 
speaker2: he is human kabob.

speaker1: doesn't your foot hurt? 
speaker2: i can't feel a thing, hon.
speaker1: how 'bout now?
speaker2: you're a bad girl, aren't you.
speaker1: um-hmmm.
speaker2: the girl's got rhythm.
speaker2: there it is.

speaker1: this is all junk. 
speaker2: this could come in handy.
speaker3: let's get everything upstairs.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker4: don't worry, i'm fine. really.
speaker3: i admire your strength.
speaker4: trust me, i plan on having a full breakdown when this is over, but for now, we all have to be strong, right?

speaker1: this is my daughter, charlie. she's all i'm after. 
speaker2: oh...
speaker1: and i'm gonna need your strength, every bit of it.
speaker2: you have it.
speaker1: good. but still do me a favor.
speaker2: name it.
speaker1: don't tell anyone i have a soft side.
speaker2: deal.

speaker1: you wanna see, baby? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how much you got?
speaker2: how much i got, what?
speaker1: how much you got to see the show?
speaker2: you don't understand, sweety. daddy doesn't pay. daddy sees the show for free. but you do get points for being on a night like this.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you can't expect a man to buy a car without a test drive first, can you?
speaker1: um, hmm --
speaker2: now wiggle that sweet little over here and sit on daddy's face, i wanna do some appraising.
speaker3: bozo barks into the cb.
speaker4: repeat. we need help. sos. calling all cars! calling all cars! we need help at the united nations tav --
speaker4: 
speaker4: double
speaker5: okay, i'm ready to come out now!
speaker6: oh!

speaker1: bartender looks to coach. 
speaker2: wha?

speaker1: what was that? 
speaker2: hoh-shit! help!! help me!!!

speaker1: the group is mesmerized. 
speaker2: oh please, no.

speaker1: they're getting in! somebody help! 
speaker2: bozo kicks and punches the door.

speaker1: the key broke off! 
speaker2: move it!

speaker1: i thought that was it for a second there. 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker3: i got papa in the stones. he's neutered.
speaker1: whoa... good one...
speaker4: that back room is sealed shut.
speaker5: i told you to stay in the main room.
speaker6: yeah... i will. i will. promise.
speaker7: if they can't reproduce anymore -- we are one step closer! a big step! now is the time to band together. we need to rise up against these monsters of the night! those creatures are no match for the human spirit! we can do it! we just need to believe in each other! in all of us! we need to make a stand! right here! right now!
speaker3: dude, are you gay?
speaker5: we know what not to do. we must stay focused and together. the beasts will find a breach. we gotta find a way out before they find a way in.
speaker8: let's run for the cars, cause mass confusion.
speaker9: the lot's too far, that's surefire suicide.
speaker5: what?
speaker6: what?
speaker5: you know what.
speaker6: i don't know
speaker5: you. what was that door downstairs?
speaker6: wait, wait, wait.
speaker5: don't me.
speaker9: it's a tunnel.
speaker9: it runs about a hundred yards and spits out on the backside of that hill down the way.
speaker5: what's it for?
speaker5: what's it for!?
speaker6: grass, man. i grow pot down there.
speaker5: does the tunnel spit out near a car?
speaker6: it spits out behind the parking lot.
speaker6: my truck is near, but it ain't nearly big enough to haul the whole lot.
speaker5: it's a shot. is it gassed up?
speaker6: fully.
speaker5: four door?
speaker6: two.
speaker5: how many can it hold?
speaker6: six.
speaker5: max?
speaker6: seven.
speaker5: it's gonna fit thirteen.
speaker6: thirteen clowns wouldn't fit.
speaker5: keys.
speaker4: what're you planning?
speaker5: three of us go. two to defend, one to drive. we back up to the bar and then tear out of here.
speaker6: sounds sketchy.
speaker5: let me make this clear; if we stay, we die.
speaker4: give 'em to me, i'm going.
speaker9: you're trusting that con? he'll ditch us and never look back.
speaker4: you too.
speaker9: get in line!
speaker5: hey! i'm not trusting him either, that's why i'm going with.
speaker7: "courage is being scared to death, but saddling up anyway." the duke. i will go.
speaker5: this is it. they have this place surrounded, but if we go under them we might just make it.
speaker9: this is a bottleneck waiting to happen.
speaker3: this one's great under pressure. i wish you luck.
speaker5: the rest of you prepare the weapons, whatever you got left. 'cause when we crash through those walls, we're bringin' death with us.
speaker7: no, i don't believe in guns.
speaker9: this ain't time for a political stance.
speaker7: this doesn't run out of ammo.
speaker9: got ya.
speaker3: hey!
speaker3: when you get to that truck... drive it like you stole it.
speaker2: how does it feel?
speaker10: lousy.
speaker2: you still have one left.
speaker10: yes, the silver lining.
speaker2: it serves you right for cheating.
speaker10: spare me.
speaker2: i figure it's karma. you wronged me and you wronged your wife, so this is karma biting you on the ass, or in your case... in the eye. bozo moves close, surveying the bandage work.
speaker3: oh yeah?
speaker2: it could be worse, you could be dead. then again, the climax is upon us.
speaker3: ya know, that's not a bad look on you. kinda 1985, but not bad. i'd hook it up.
speaker2: i wouldn't you for practice.
speaker3: tease.
speaker10: leave her alone.
speaker3: hey, cyclops. let's have a quiet contest... starting now.
speaker3: ya know, in situations of duress, i have found that women are attracted to my authority.

speaker1: you handle yourself pretty well. you a cop or a criminal? 
speaker2: neither. just a farmer.
speaker1: oh yeah? then how do you do it?
speaker2: i just think about my husband and daughter... and the rest is easy.
speaker2: easy.
speaker1: this place is creepy in the daytime, too. ready?
speaker1: scared?
speaker3: no. you?
speaker1: of course not. i fight monsters all the time. on three.
speaker3: one... two... three!!!
speaker3: well, look at that.
speaker3: hey, little fella.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker3: looks like a brothel for plants.
speaker1: shhhhhhhhhhhhh.

speaker1: ah-ah-ah! you're doing that all wrong! 
speaker2: what do you know?
speaker1: i know you're doing it wrong.
speaker2: prove it.
speaker1: move aside, princess.

speaker1: you and i are similar. we both have accents. we both travel a lot. we both don't really have homes... 
speaker2: you should be quiet.
speaker1: i am sorry, i ramble when i'm nervous.
speaker3: quiet.
speaker1: it's just that this seems like the opportune time for someone to be horribly... offed.
speaker2: what did i say?
speaker1: sorry. i'm done now.

speaker1: you don't want the rag touching booze, that way you can hold it and ensure it explodes when you throw it. 
speaker2: you sure? i thought the rag had to touch?
speaker1: i'm sure.
speaker1: perfecto. what we should do, though, is put those peanut barrels to use. fill 'em with booze and line up some planks. if the walls come down... we hit 'em donkey kong style.
speaker2: genius.
speaker3: you aren't nearly as as you look, are you?
speaker1: next time, look within. stereotyping can be ugly and hurtful.
speaker1: excuse me for being forward, but i'm curious about your dimensions.

speaker1: hold up. you hear something? 
speaker1: they're trying to burrow through the tunnel walls.
speaker2: move.
speaker3: like moles these things.
speaker1: duck!
speaker1: stay down!
speaker2: go! the is mine!
speaker2: look out!
speaker1: the shells are wet!
speaker3: grab onto ceiling and get out of water!
speaker1: what?
speaker3: do it!!!

speaker1: you with my family. i right back! 
speaker1: oh

speaker1: they will write stories of your bravery. 
speaker2: if there's anybody left.

speaker1: hey! hey! she's in the shaft! 
speaker2: heroine squirms as the elevator rises.
speaker3: move it! move it! move it!
speaker4: beer guy hits the button.
speaker5: come on!
speaker6: ol' crazy horse has seen it.
speaker1: shut up!

speaker1: stop! 
speaker2: what the are you doing?!
speaker1: they can't get in here! we agreed! they'll get us!
speaker3: she can make it!
speaker1: i will not die because of her!
speaker4: don't be stupid, drop the gun!

speaker1: welcome back. 
speaker2: f-f-fuck you.
speaker3: what the happened?
speaker4: you okay?
speaker2: i think they made it.
speaker2: stop trying to get people killed. it is getting very old.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: ingenuity, baby. ingenuity.
speaker2: i need some shells.
speaker3: i have two left.
speaker3: make it count.
speaker2: let's prepare ourselves, they ought to be here with the truck any minute.
speaker5: 
speaker5: if you ask me, i'm gonna just lay right here, wait for sunrise, then walk on out of here.
speaker2: that's your choice, but this is going to get a whole lot worse before it gets any better.
speaker5: if all of you run for it, they won't care about lil ol' me. they like the food that moves...

speaker1: bonsai! 
speaker1: hot potato!!!
speaker2: we're gonna die!
speaker3: what the hell?!
speaker4: settle down!
speaker5: stop it! stop it! stop it!
speaker6: what's that?
speaker7: they didn't make it.

speaker1: that wall's coming down! 
speaker2: commence plan b!
speaker3: what's plan b?
speaker2: just watch the floor and keep the others safe!
speaker2: bomb's away!!!
speaker3: now!

speaker1: one down, one to go!!! 
speaker2: help me!
speaker2: come on!
speaker3: i can't hold him!!!
speaker2: do something!!!

speaker1:  
speaker2: i need to get your number.
speaker3: come on, i'll help you.
speaker4: no thank you, we're content.
speaker3: i'm not leaving anyone behind.
speaker5: maybe next time, dear.

speaker1: she's still out here. 
speaker1: stay put.
speaker1: where are you... come on...
speaker1: come on! come on!

speaker1: you got her? you got her! 
speaker2: not for long, we gotta burn it.
speaker2: come on! let's blow this thing!
speaker3: when this lights, run like hell.
speaker2: here we go...
speaker4: what is that?
speaker2: she's calling for help.
speaker5: the fan has officially been buried in the
speaker1: we have to run --
speaker2: get to your cars!!!
speaker5: give him back!
speaker5: oh

speaker1: i thought we lost you -- para is ripped into the air again. 
speaker1: you fucker!
speaker2: get in! heroine hops in the back.
speaker3: run and quit looking back!

speaker1: get me birds! 
speaker1: no you don't!

speaker1: hang on! 
speaker2: hurry! hurry! hurry!
speaker3: oh

speaker1: brother!!! 
speaker2: 
speaker1: i meant to tell you so much!

speaker1: motherfucker!!! 
speaker1: lord, if i die, bury me upside down so the world can kiss my ass!
speaker2: i think we're in the clear --

speaker1: are you okay?! 
speaker2: i don't know, i think --
speaker3: hey!
speaker3: are you two all right? they left! we made it! i think we made it!
speaker1: they'll be back.
speaker2: we're safe until dark, but we need to find other people.
speaker2: you know where the iga grocery store is over in red mountain?
speaker3: um, yeah, ten miles west.
speaker2: they have a bomb shelter.
speaker2: we'll meet in three hours?
speaker3: i don't wanna go home alone... i don't wanna see what might have...
speaker1: don't worry about that. just go.
speaker3: i'm sorry about your son. i really am. tuffy nods, affectionately touching his hand.
speaker3: where are you two going?
speaker2: we're going to get my little girl.
speaker3: i wish you luck.

speaker1: where is everyone? 
speaker2: i don't know, i just got here. did you find your girl?
speaker1: she's supposed to already be here.
speaker3: your family?
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker1: this place is a ghost town.
speaker2: look!
speaker1: charlie?
speaker1: charlie!
speaker2: stop! there's something wrong!
speaker1: honey!?
speaker3: oh
speaker4: mommy!
speaker2: it's a trap!
speaker2: run!!!
speaker1: i love you...

speaker1: what's the damage radius? 
speaker2: twenty miles. red mountain, surrounding farms, local tv studio.
speaker1: how many picked up the broadcast?
speaker2: we'll have figures within the hour.
speaker2: sir, what's the spin?
speaker1: tornado cluster.
speaker2: this is the california high desert.
speaker1: get what you need to sell it.
speaker3: sir, we have movement!

speaker1: open it. 
speaker1: gentlemen, help them to safety.
speaker2: you're not safe, she's still alive, she'll be back...
speaker1: relax. we know. we're the calvary.

speaker1: what happened to you? 
speaker2: get these cuffs off me! i'm a hero for christ's sake!
speaker3: g'morning.
speaker2: thanks for waitin' for me back there, really appreciate it!
speaker4: how'd you survive?
speaker2: i found a new weak spot on 'em, but it ain't pretty getting to it. heroine, last in the truck, turns to the men.
speaker5: where are you taking us?
speaker1: a trauma center. we have doctors waiting. you're in good hands now.
speaker1: do it quick and spread the mess.

