speaker1: all right, enough is enough. you can't eat the venetian blinds, curly. i just had 'em installed on wednesday. 
speaker1: down the hatch.
speaker2: she's just no good.
speaker1: what can i tell you, kid? you're right. when you're right, you're right, and you're right.
speaker2: ain't worth thinking about.
speaker1: you're absolutely right, i wouldn't give her another thought.
speaker2: you know, you're okay, mr. gittes. i know it's your job, but you're okay.
speaker1: thanks, curly. call me jake.
speaker2: thanks. you know something, jake?
speaker1: what's that, curly?
speaker2: i think i'll kill her.

speaker1: i was hoping mr. gittes could see to this personally. 
speaker2: if you'll allow us to complete our preliminary questioning, by then he'll be free.

speaker1: they don't kill a guy for that. 
speaker2: oh they don't?
speaker1: not for your wife. that's the unwritten law.
speaker2: i'll tell you the unwritten law, you son of a you gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody and get away with it. you think you got that kind of dough, you think you got that kind of class?
speaker1: ...no...
speaker2: you bet your you don't. you can't even pay me off.
speaker1: i'll pay the rest next trip. we only caught sixty ton of skipjack around san benedict. we hit a chubasco, they don't pay you for skipjack the way they do for tuna or albacore.
speaker2: forget it. i only mention it to illustrate a point...

speaker1: i don't want your last dime. 
speaker1: what kind of guy do you think i am?
speaker2: thanks, mr. gittes.
speaker1: call me jake. careful driving home, curly.
speaker3: a mrs. mulwray is waiting for you, with mr. walsh and mr. duffy.
speaker4: mrs. mulwray, may i present mr. gittes?
speaker1: how do you do, mrs. mulwray?
speaker5: mr. gittes...
speaker1: now, mrs. mulwray, what seems to be the problem?
speaker5: my husband, i believe, is seeing another woman.
speaker1: no, really?
speaker5: i'm afraid so.
speaker1: i am sorry.
speaker5: can't we talk about this alone, mr. gittes?
speaker1: i'm afraid not, mrs. mulwray. these men are my operatives and at some point they're going to assist me. i can't do everything myself.
speaker5: of course not.
speaker1: now, what makes you certain he is involved with someone?
speaker5: a wife can tell.
speaker1: mrs. mulwray, do you love your husband?
speaker5: ...yes of course.
speaker1: then go home and forget about it.
speaker5: but...
speaker1: i'm sure he loves you, too. you know the expression, let sleeping dogs lie? you're better off not knowing.
speaker5: but i have to know.
speaker1: all right, what's your husband's first name?
speaker5: hollis. hollis mulwray.
speaker1: water and power?
speaker5: he's the chief engineer.
speaker6: chief engineer?
speaker1: this type of investigation can be hard on your pocketbook, mrs. mulwray. it takes time.
speaker5: money doesn't matter to me, mr. gittes.
speaker1: very well. we'll see what we can do.

speaker1: in a whispered conference. 
speaker2: mayor bagby... let's hear from the departments again. i suppose we better take water and power first. mr. mulwray.
speaker3: looking up with interest from his racing form.

speaker1: in case you've forgotten, gentlemen, over five hundred lives were lost when the van der lip dam gave way core samples have shown that beneath this bedrock is shale similar to the permeable shale in the van der lip disaster. it couldn't withstand that kind of pressure there. now you propose yet another dirt banked terminus dam with slopes of two and one half to one, one hundred twelve feet high and a twelve thousand acre water surface. well, it won't hold. i won't build it. it's that simple. i am not making that kind of mistake twice. thank you, gentlemen. 
speaker2: what in the do you think you're doing? get those goddam things out of here!
speaker3: you steal the water from the valley, ruin the grazing, starve my livestock who's paying you to do that, mr. mulwray, that's what i want to know!

speaker1: backs away, sits near the outfall, yawns. 
speaker2: flashing in the dust.

speaker1: morning, sophie. 
speaker1: walsh here?
speaker2: he's in the dark room.
speaker1: where'd he go yesterday?
speaker3: three reservoirs. men's room of a richfield gas station on flower, and the pig 'n whistle.
speaker1: christ, this guy's really got water on the brain.
speaker3: what'd you expect? that's his job.
speaker1: listen, we can't string this broad out indefinitely we got to come up with something.
speaker3: i think i got something.
speaker1: oh yeah? you pick up the watch?

speaker1: he was there all night. 
speaker1: so what you got?
speaker1: this?
speaker2: they got into a terrific argument outside the pig 'n whistle.
speaker1: what about?
speaker2: i don't know. the traffic was pretty loud. i only heard one thing â– apple core.
speaker1: apple core?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: christ, walsh. that's what you spent your day doing?
speaker2: look, you tell me to take pictures, i take pictures.
speaker1: let me explain something to you, walsh. this business requires a certain finesse.
speaker1: yeah, sophie? duffy, where are you?
speaker1: okay, slow down â– echo park. water again.
speaker3: duffy is rowing, gittes seated in the stern.
speaker1: let's have a big smile, pal.

speaker1: when you get so much publicity, after a while you must get blasã© about it. 
speaker2: look at that.
speaker1: heat's murder.
speaker3: fools names and fools faces... gittes has heard the word. he straightens up.
speaker2: what's that, pal?
speaker3: nothing. you got a of a way to make a living.
speaker2: oh? what do you do to make ends meet?
speaker3: mortgage department, first national bank.
speaker2: tell me, how many people a week do you foreclose on?
speaker3: we don't publish a record in the paper, i can tell you that.
speaker2: neither do i.
speaker3: no, you have a press agent do it.
speaker2: barney, who is this bimbo? he a regular customer?
speaker1: take it easy, jake.
speaker2: look, pal. i make an honest living. people don't come to me unless they're miserable and i help 'em out of a bad situation. i don't kick them out of their homes like you jerks who work in the bank.
speaker1: jake, for christ's sake.
speaker2: c'mon, get out of the barber chair. we'll go outside and talk this over.
speaker1: hey, c'mon, jake. sit down. sit down. you hear about the fella goes to his friend and says, 'what'll i do, i'm tired of my wife?' and his friend says, 'whyn't you do what the chinese do?'
speaker2: i don't know how that got in the paper as a matter of fact â– it surprised me it was so quick. i make an honest living.
speaker1: 'course you do, jake.
speaker2: an honest living.
speaker1: so anyway, he says, 'whyn't you do what the chinese do?'

speaker1: duffy, walsh. 
speaker1: sophie, go to the little girl's room for a minute.
speaker2: but, mr. gittes.
speaker1: sophie.
speaker2: yes, mr. gittes.
speaker1: so there's this fella who's tired of his wife.
speaker3: jake, listen.
speaker1: shut up, duffy, you're always in a hurry and his friend says why not do what the chinese do? so he says what do they do? his friend says the chinese they screw for a while. just listen a second, duffy...
speaker1: ...and then they stop and they read a little confucius and they screw some more and they stop and they smoke some opium and then they go back and screw some more and they stop again and they contemplate the moon or something and it makes it more exciting. so this other guy goes home to screw his wife and after a while he stops and gets up and goes into the other room only he reads life magazine and he goes back and he screws some more and suddenly says excuse me a second and he gets up and smokes a cigarette and he goes back and by this time his wife is getting sore as hell. so he screws some more and then he gets up to look at the moon and his wife says, 'what the do you think you're doing? ...you're like a chinaman.' gittes hangs onto sophie's desk laughing his off. the little gray-haired man winces. when gittes looks up he sees the young woman, apparently in her late twenties. she's so stunning that gittes nearly gasps.
speaker4: mr. gittes?
speaker1: yes?
speaker4: do you know me?
speaker1: well... i think i... i would've remembered.
speaker4: have we ever met?
speaker1: well, no.
speaker4: never?
speaker1: never.
speaker4: that's what i thought. you see, i'm mrs. evelyn mulwray. you know, mr. mulwray's wife.
speaker1: not that mulwray?
speaker5: yes, that mulwray, mr. gittes. and since you agree with me we've never met, you must also agree that i haven't hired you to do anything. certainly not spy on my husband. i see you like publicity, mr. gittes. well, you're going to get it.
speaker1: now wait a minute, mrs. mulwray...
speaker1: ...there's some misunderstanding here. it's not going to do any good to get tough with me.
speaker5: i don't get tough with anybody, mr. gittes. my lawyer does.
speaker6: here's something for you, mr. gittes.
speaker6: i suppose we'll be hearing from your attorney.

speaker1: there's seven ashtrays in this room, duffy. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: that's a filthy habit.
speaker2: i said okay, jake.
speaker1: yeah, yeah. if she'd come in here saying she was shirley temple you'd say okay to that, too.
speaker3: look, jake. she gave us mulwray's real phone number and address.
speaker1: all she needed for that was the phone book!
speaker3: no, no. she said not to call, her husband might answer.
speaker1: when i find out who that phony was.
speaker1: sophie.
speaker4: yes, mr. gittes.
speaker1: get me the times. whitey mehrholtz. and how about that snotty broad? what does she think, she's perfect? coming in waving her lawyers and her money at me â– so goddam smug. she's no better than anybody else in this town.
speaker1: whitey, what's new, pal?... yeah, listen, where did you get those photographs... yeah, blowing a fuse over the el macando love nest. that's cute, whitey... so who sent them to you... i sent them? why would i be asking how you got them if i sent them?... whitey?... whitey?... c'mon, level with me for once, my tit's in the wringer and it's beginning to hurt... yeah... yeah... yeah.
speaker3: so he says you sent them?
speaker1: they're all a bunch of phonies.

speaker1: mr. mulwray, please. 
speaker2: he's not in, mr.?
speaker1: gittes.
speaker2: may i ask what this is regarding?
speaker1: it's personal. has he been out long?
speaker2: since lunch.
speaker1: gee whiz. and i'm late.
speaker2: he was expecting you?
speaker1: fifteen minutes ago. why don't i go in and wait?

speaker1: can i help you? russ yelburton, deputy chief in the department. 
speaker2: j.j. gittes. and it's not a departmental matter.
speaker1: i wonder if you'd care to wait in my office?
speaker1: you see, this whole business in the paper with mr. mulwray has us all on edge.

speaker1: after all, you work with a man for a certain length of time, you come to know him, his habits, his values, and so forth. well either he's the kind who chases after women or he isn't. 
speaker2: and mulwray isn't?
speaker1: he never even kids about it.
speaker2: maybe he takes it very seriously.
speaker2: you don't happen to know where mr. mulwray's having lunch?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i --
speaker2: well, tell him i'll be back. gittes spots a card tray on yelburton's desk.
speaker2: mind if i take one of your cards? in case i want to get in touch with you again.
speaker1: help yourself.
speaker2: mulvihlll, what are you doing here?

speaker1: they shut my water off, what's it to you? 
speaker2: how'd you find out? you don't drink it, you don't take a bath in it, maybe they sent you a letter. ah, but then you'd have to be able to read.
speaker2: relax, mulvihill, glad to see you. do you know claude mulvihill here?
speaker3: hope so. he's working for us.
speaker2: j.j. gittes to see mr. mulwray.

speaker1: in doorway. 
speaker1: please.

speaker1: bad for glass. 
speaker2: yes, mr. gittes?
speaker3: actually, i'm here to see your husband, mrs. mulwray.
speaker2: would you like something to drink?
speaker3: what are you having?
speaker2: iced tea.
speaker3: yeah. fine, thank you.

speaker1: my husband's at the office. 
speaker2: actually he's not. and he's moved from his apartment at the el macando.
speaker1: that's not his apartment.
speaker2: anyway... i... the point is, mrs. mulwray. i'm not in business to be loved, but i am in business, and believe me, whoever set up your husband, set me up. l.a.'s a small town, people talk.
speaker2: i'm just trying to make a living, and i don't want to become a local joke.
speaker1: mr. gittes, you've talked me into it. i'll drop the lawsuit.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i said i'll drop it.
speaker1: so let's just drop the whole thing. sugar? lemon?
speaker2: mrs. mulwray?
speaker1: yes, mr. gittes?
speaker2: i don't want to drop it.
speaker2: i should talk this over with your husband.
speaker1: why?... what on earth for? look, hollis seems to think you're an innocent man.
speaker2: well, i've been accused of many things, mrs. mulwray, but never that.
speaker2: you see, somebody went to a lot of trouble here, and i want to find out, lawsuit or no lawsuit. i'm not the one who's supposed to be caught with my pants down... so i'd like to see your husband. unless that's a problem.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: may i speak frankly, mrs. mulwray?
speaker1: you may if you can, mr. gittes.
speaker2: well, that little girlfriend, she was attractive in a cheap sort of way of course. she's disappeared. maybe they disappeared together somewhere.
speaker1: suppose they did. how does it concern you?
speaker2: nothing personal, mrs. mulwray, i just --
speaker1: it's very personal. it couldn't be more personal. is this a business or an obsession with you?
speaker2: look at it this way. now this phony broad, excuse the language, says she's you, she's hired me. whoever put her up to it, didn't have anything against me. they were out to get your husband. now if i see him, i can help him. did you talk this morning?
speaker1: no. i went riding rather early.
speaker2: looks like you went quite a distance.
speaker1: no, just riding bareback, that's all. anyway, you might try the oak pass or stone canyon reservoirs. sometimes at lunch hollis takes walks around them. otherwise he'll be home by 6:30.
speaker2: i'll stop by.
speaker1: please call first.

speaker1: sorry, this is closed to the public, sir. 
speaker1: sorry, mr. yelburton. go on down.
speaker2: gittes, for chrissakes.
speaker3: loach.
speaker2: c'mon, get out of here before --
speaker3: before what? what the hell's going on?

speaker1: hello, jake. 
speaker2: how are you, lou?
speaker1: i have a cold i can't seem to shake but other than that, i'm fine.
speaker2: summer colds are the worst.
speaker1: yeah, they are.
speaker3: no smoking, sir. it's a fire hazard this time of year.
speaker1: i think we can make an exception. i'll see he's careful with the matches.
speaker2: thanks, lou.
speaker1: how'd you get past the guards?
speaker2: well, to tell you the truth, i lied a little.
speaker1: you've done well by yourself.
speaker2: i get by.
speaker1: well, sometimes it takes a while for a man to find himself and i guess you have.
speaker4: poking around in other people's dirty linen.
speaker2: yeah. tell me, you still throw chinamen into jail for spitting on the laundry?
speaker1: you're behind the times, jake. they've got steam irons now. and i'm out of chinatown.
speaker2: since when?
speaker1: since i made lieutenant.
speaker2: congratulations.
speaker1: uh-huh. so what are you doing here?
speaker2: looking for someone.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: hollis mulwray. you seen him?
speaker1: oh yes.
speaker2: i'd like to talk to him.
speaker1: you're welcome to try. there he is.

speaker1: it looks like he was washed the entire length of the runoff channel. could he swim? 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: obviously the fall must have knocked him out.
speaker1: this alleged affair he was having. the publicity didn't make him morose or unhappy?

speaker1: ...well, it didn't make him happy... 
speaker2: but there is no possibility he would have taken his own life?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: mrs. mulwray, do you happen to know the name of the young woman in question?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: do you know where she might be?
speaker1: certainly not!
speaker2: you and your husband never discussed her?
speaker1: he... we did... he wouldn't tell me her name. we quarreled over her... of course. it came as a complete surprise to me.
speaker2: a complete surprise?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: but i thought you'd hired a private investigator.
speaker1: a private investigator?
speaker2: mr. gittes.
speaker1: well yes.
speaker1: but i... i... did that because i thought it was a nasty rumor i'd put an end to...
speaker2: and when did mr. gittes inform you that these rumors had some foundation in fact?
speaker2: you wouldn't happen to know the present whereabouts of the young woman.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: or her name?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: will you need me for anything else, lieutenant?
speaker2: i don't think so, mrs. mulwray. of course you have my deepest sympathy and if we need anymore information, we'll be in touch.
speaker3: i'll walk her to her car, be right back.

speaker1: mrs. mulwray?... mrs. mulwray. 
speaker2: ...just a minute...
speaker1: you left your keys in the ignition.
speaker2: oh... thank you.
speaker2: thank you for going along with me. i just didn't want to explain anything... i'll send you a check.
speaker1: a check?
speaker2: to make it official, i hired you.

speaker1: don't give me that, lou. you hauled me down here for a statement. 
speaker2: i don't want it anymore.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: no. it was an accident.
speaker1: you mean that's what you're going to call it.
speaker2: that's right. out of respect for his civic position. resume walking.
speaker1: what'd he do, lou, make a pass at your sister?
speaker2: no, he drowned a cousin of mine with about five hundred other people. but they weren't very important, just a bunch of mexicans living by a dam. now beat it, gittes, you don't come out of this smelling like a rose, you know.
speaker1: oh yeah? can you think of something to charge me with?
speaker2: when i do, you'll hear about it.

speaker1: jake, what're you doin' here? 
speaker2: nothin', morty, it's my lunch hour, i thought i'd drop by and see who died lately.
speaker1: yeah? ain't that something? middle of a drought, the water commissioner drowns. only in l.a.
speaker2: yeah. banged up pretty bad.
speaker1: that's a long fall.
speaker2: so how are you, morty?
speaker1: never better. you know me, jake.
speaker2: yeah, so who you got there?
speaker1: leroy shuhardt, local drunk used to hang around ferguson's alley.
speaker1: quite a character. lately he'd been living in one of the downtown storm drains. had a bureau dresser down there and everything.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: drowned, too.
speaker2: come again?
speaker1: yeah, got dead drunk, passed out in the bottom of the riverbed.
speaker2: the l.a. river?
speaker2: it's bone dry, morty.
speaker1: it's not completely dry.
speaker2: yeah, well he ain't gonna drown in a damp riverbed either, i don't care how soused he was. that's like drowning in a teaspoon.
speaker1: we got water out of him, jake. he drowned.
speaker2: this town...

speaker1: you were riding here the other day, weren't you...? 
speaker1: speak english?... habla ingles?
speaker2: si.
speaker1: didn't you talk to a man here... few days ago... wore glasses... he...
speaker1: what did you talk about, mind my asking?
speaker2: the water.
speaker1: what about the water?
speaker2: when it comes.
speaker1: when it comes? what'd you tell him?
speaker2: comes in different parts of the river. every night a different part.

speaker1: you are a very nosey fellow, kitty cat... you know what happens to nosey fellows? 
speaker1: next time you lose the whole thing, kitty cat. i'll cut it off and feed it to my goldfish, understand?
speaker2: tell him you understand, gittes.
speaker3: i understand...

speaker1: yeah, sophie. 
speaker2: a miss sessions calling.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: ida sessions.
speaker1: don't know her. take a number.
speaker3: a bandage spread-eagled across gittes' nose.
speaker4: so some contractor wants to build a dam and he makes a few payoffs. so what?
speaker4: think you can nail mulvihill? they'll claim you were trespassing.
speaker1: i don't want mulvihill. i want the big boys that are making the payoffs.
speaker5: then what'll you do?
speaker1: sue the out of 'em.
speaker4: yeah?
speaker1: yeah. what's wrong with you guys? think ahead. we find 'em, sue 'em. we'll make a killing. we'll have dinner at chasen's twice a week, we'll be on ice the rest of our lives.
speaker4: sue people like that they're liable to be having dinner with the judge who's trying the suit.
speaker2: miss ida sessions again. she says you know her.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: hello, miss sessions. i don't believe we've had the pleasure.
speaker6: oh yes we have... are you alone, mr. gittes?
speaker1: isn't everybody? what can i do for you, miss sessions?
speaker6: well, i'm a working girl, mr. gittes. i didn't come in to see you on my own.
speaker1: when did you come in?
speaker6: i was the one who pretended to be mrs. mulwray, remember?
speaker1: shut the up! ...yes i remember nothing, miss sessions, just going over a detail or two with my associates... you were saying?
speaker6: well i never expected anything to happen like what happened to mr. mulwray, the point is if it ever comes out i want somebody to know i didn't know what would happen.
speaker1: i understand... if you could tell me who employed you, miss sessions. that could help us both.
speaker6: oh no.
speaker1: ...why don't you give me your address and we can talk this over?
speaker6: no, mr. gittes. just look in the obituary column of today's times...
speaker1: the obituary column?
speaker6: you'll find one of those people.
speaker1: 'those people?' miss sessions.

speaker1: thanks for coming... drink? 
speaker2: tom collins with lime, not lemon, please.
speaker1: i got your check in the mall.
speaker2: yes. as i said, i was very grateful.
speaker1: mrs. mulwray, i'm afraid that's not good enough.
speaker2: well, how much would you like?

speaker1: stop it. the money's fine. it's generous but you've shortchanged me on the story. 
speaker2: i have?
speaker1: i think so. something besides your husband's death was bothering you. you were upset but not that upset.
speaker2: mr. gittes... don't tell me how i feel.
speaker1: sorry. look, you sue me, your husband dies, you drop the lawsuit like a hot potato, and all of it quicker than wind from a duck's ass. excuse me. then you ask me to lie to the police.
speaker2: it wasn't much of a lie.
speaker1: if your husband was killed it was. this can look like you paid me off to withhold evidence.
speaker2: but he wasn't killed.
speaker1: i think you're hiding something, mrs. mulwray.
speaker2: well, i suppose i am... actually i knew about the affair.
speaker1: how did you find out?
speaker2: my husband.
speaker1: he told you?
speaker1: and you weren't the slightest bit upset about it?
speaker2: i was grateful.
speaker1: you'll have to explain that, mrs. mulwray.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: look, i do matrimonial work, it's my metiay. when a wife tells me she's happy her husband is cheating on her it runs contrary to my experience.
speaker2: unless what?
speaker1: she's cheating on him.
speaker1: were you?
speaker2: i don't like the word 'cheat.'
speaker1: did you have affairs?
speaker2: mr. gittes.
speaker1: did he know?
speaker2: well i wouldn't run home and tell him whenever i went to bed with someone, if that's what you mean.
speaker2: is there anything else you want to know?
speaker1: where you were when your husband died.
speaker2: i can't tell you.
speaker1: you mean you don't know where you were?
speaker2: i mean i can't tell you.
speaker1: you were seeing someone, too.
speaker1: for very long?
speaker2: i don't see anyone for very long, mr. gittes. it's difficult for me. now i think you know all you need to about me. i didn't want publicity. i didn't want to go into any of this, then or now. is this all?
speaker1: oh, by the way. what's the 'c' stand for?
speaker2: k... cross.
speaker1: that your maiden name?
speaker2: yes... why?
speaker1: no reason.
speaker2: you must've had a reason to ask me that.
speaker1: no. i'm just a snoop.
speaker2: you seem to have had a reason for every other question.
speaker1: no, not for that one.
speaker2: i don't believe you.
speaker1: do me a favor. sit still and act like i'm charming.
speaker2: how did it happen?
speaker1: been meaning to talk to you about that.
speaker2: maybe putting your nose in other people's business?
speaker1: more like other people putting their business in my nose.
speaker3: you son of a
speaker1: mrs. match. how're you?
speaker4: don't give me that, you son of a
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: another satisfied client?
speaker1: another satisfied client's wife.
speaker4: look at me, you son of a you... you bastard. are you happy, are you happy now?
speaker4: you smug son of a my husband's so upset he sweats all night! how do you think that makes me feel?
speaker1: sweaty?
speaker1: let's get out of here before she picks up her purse.
speaker2: tough guy, huh?

speaker1: oh, no. i've got my own car. the creamcolored packard. 
speaker2: wait a minute, sonny. i think you better come with me.
speaker1: what for? there's nothing more to say. get my car, please.
speaker2: okay, go home. but in case you're interested your husband was murdered. somebody's dumping tons of water out of the city reservoirs when we're supposedly in the middle of a drought, he found out, and he was killed. there's a waterlogged drunk in the morgue. involuntary manslaughter if anybody wants to take the trouble which they don't. it looks like half the city is trying to cover it all up, which is fine with me. but, mrs. mulwray. i goddam near lost my nose! and i like it. i like breathing through it. and i still think you're hiding something.
speaker1: mr. gittes.

speaker1: j.j. gittes to see mr. yelburton. 
speaker2: mr. yelburton will be busy for some time.
speaker1: well i'm on my lunch hour. i'll wait.
speaker2: he's liable to be tied up indefinitely.
speaker1: i take a long lunch. all day sometimes.

speaker1: gittes, still humming, turns to the secretary. 
speaker2: julian cross worked for the water department?
speaker3: yes. no.
speaker2: he did or he didn't?
speaker3: he owned it.
speaker2: he owned the water department?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: he owned the entire water supply for the city?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: how did they get it away from him?
speaker3: mr. mulwray felt the public should own the display. the water. if you'll just read the display.
speaker2: mulwray? i thought you said cross owned the department.
speaker3: along with mr. mulwray.
speaker2: they were partners.
speaker3: mr. yelburton will see you now.

speaker1: mr. gittes, sorry to keep you waiting. these staff meetings, they just go on and on. 
speaker2: yeah, must be especially tough to take over under these circumstances.
speaker1: oh yes. hollis was the best department head the city's ever had. my goodness, what happened to your nose?
speaker2: i cut myself shaving.
speaker1: you ought to be more careful. that must really smart.
speaker2: only when i breathe.
speaker1: only when you breathe... don't tell me you're still working for mrs. mulwray?
speaker2: i never was.
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: neither do i, actually. but you hired me or you hired that chippie to hire me.
speaker1: mr. gittes, you're not making a bit of sense.
speaker2: well, look at it this way, mr. yelburton. mulwray didn't want to build a dam and he had a reputation that was hard to get around, so. you decided to ruin it. then he found out that you were dumping water every night. then he was drowned.
speaker1: mr. gittes! that's an outrageous accusation. i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: well, whitey mehrholtz over at the times will. dumping thousands of gallons of water down the toilet in the middle of a drought. that's news.
speaker1: wait. please sit down, mr. gittes. we're... well, we're not anxious for this to get around, but we have been diverting a little water to irrigate avocado and walnut groves in the northwest valley. as you know, the farmers there have no legal right to our water, and since the drought we've had to cut them off. the city comes first, naturally. but, well, we've been trying to help some of them out, keep them from going under. naturally when you divert water you get a little runoff.
speaker2: yeah, a little runoff. where are those orchards?
speaker1: i said, the northwest valley.
speaker2: that's like saying they're in arizona.
speaker1: mr. gittes, my field men are out and i can't give you an exact location...
speaker2: you're a married man, am i right?
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: hard working, have a wife and kids...
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: i don't want to nail you. i just want to know who put you up to it. i'll give you a few days to think it over. call me. i can help. who knows? maybe we can lay the whole thing off on a few big shots and you can stay head of the department for the next twenty years. gittes smiles, leaves an unsmiling yelburton.

speaker1: what's your usual salary? 
speaker2: thirty-five bucks daily for me, twenty for each of my operators, plus expenses, plus my fee if i show results.
speaker1: whoever's behind my husband's death, why have they gone to all this trouble?
speaker2: money. how they plan to make it by emptying the reservoirs, that i don't know.
speaker1: i'll pay your salary plus five thousand dollars if you find out what happened to hollis and who is involved.
speaker2: sophie, draw up one of our standard forms for mrs. mulwray. tell me, did you get married before or after mulwray and your father sold the water department?
speaker2: your father is julian cross, isn't he?
speaker1: yes, of course. it was quite a while after. i was just out of grade school when they did that.
speaker2: so you married your father's business partner?
speaker2: you've got one going, mrs. mulwray.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: is there something upsetting about my asking about your father?
speaker1: no!... yes, a little. you see hollis and my fa... my father had a falling out...
speaker2: over the water department, or over you?
speaker1: not over me. why would they have a falling out over me?
speaker2: then it was over the water department.
speaker1: not exactly. well, i mean, yes. yes and no. hollis felt the public should own the water but i don't think my father felt that way. actually, it was over the van der lip. the dam that broke.
speaker2: oh, yeah?
speaker1: yes. he never forgave him for it.
speaker2: never forgave him for what?
speaker1: for talking him into building it, he never forgave my father... they haven't spoken to this day.
speaker2: you sure shout that?
speaker1: of course i'm sure.
speaker2: what about you? do you and your father get along?
speaker2: sign here... the other copy's for you.
speaker1: what are you thinking?
speaker2: before this i turned on the faucet, it came out hot and cold, i didn't think there was a thing to it.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you'll have to sit with the pilot.

speaker1: well, you're not going fishing. 
speaker2: not exactly.
speaker1: but that's what you told your wife.
speaker1: lots of fellas do. tell the little woman they're going on a fishing trip, then shack up with some little twist on the island... she pretty?
speaker2: i'm going to see a man called julian cross. ever heard of him?
speaker1: is the pope catholic? who are you, mister?... i ask because he doesn't see a whole lot of people.
speaker2: i'm working for his daughter.
speaker1: that right?... she used to be some looker.
speaker2: she ain't exactly long in the tooth now.
speaker1: she must be about thirty-three, thirty- four.
speaker2: you must be thinking of a different daughter.
speaker1: no, he's only got one, i remember her age, i read it in the newspapers when she ran away.
speaker2: she ran away?
speaker1: oh yeah, it was a big thing at the time. julian cross' daughter. almighty. she was a wild little thing.
speaker1: course, she settled down nicely.
speaker2: well, you never know, do you?
speaker1: that's for sure.
speaker2: why'd she run away?
speaker1: oh, you know. she was sixteen or seventeen.
speaker2: we missed the best of it, didn't we, pal?
speaker1: she ran off to mexico. rumor was she was knocked up and didn't even know who the father was. went there to get rid of it.
speaker2: you don't say?
speaker1: cross was looking for her all over the country. offered rewards, everything. felt real sorry for him, with all his money.

speaker1: horseshit. 
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: i said horseshit. horseshit.
speaker2: yes, sir, that's what it looks like. i'll give you that.
speaker1: love the smell of it. a lot of people do but of course they won't admit it. look at the shape.
speaker1: always the same.
speaker2: always?
speaker1: what? oh, near yes. unless the animal's sick or something. and the steam rising off it like that in the morning. that's life, mr. gittes. life.
speaker1: perhaps this preoccupation with horseshit may seem a little perverse, but i ask you to remember this. one way or another, it's what i've dealt in all my life. let's have breakfast.

speaker1: you know, you've got a nasty reputation, mr. gittes. i like that. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: if you were a bank president that would be one thing, but in your business it's admirable. and it's good advertising.
speaker2: it doesn't hurt.
speaker1: it's why you attract a client like my daughter.
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: but i'm surprised you're still working for her, unless she's suddenly come up with another husband.
speaker2: no. she happens to think the last one was murdered.
speaker1: how did she get that idea?
speaker2: i think i gave it to her.
speaker1: uh-huh. oh i hope you don't mind. i believe they should be served with the head.
speaker2: fine, as long as you don't serve chicken that way.
speaker1: tell me. what do the police say?
speaker2: they're calling it an accident.
speaker1: who's the investigating officer?
speaker2: lou escobar â– he's a lieutenant.
speaker1: do you know him?
speaker2: oh yes.
speaker1: where from?
speaker2: we worked in chinatown together.
speaker1: would you call him a capable man?
speaker2: very.
speaker1: honest?
speaker2: far as it goes. of course he has to swim in the same water we all do.
speaker1: of course, but you've got no reason to think he's bungled the case?
speaker2: none.
speaker1: that's too bad.
speaker2: too bad?
speaker1: it disturbs me, mr. gittes. it makes me think you're taking my daughter for a ride. financially speaking, of course. how much are you charging her?
speaker2: my usual fee, plus a bonus if i come up with any results.
speaker1: are you sleeping with her? come, come, mr. gittes. you don't have to think about that to remember, do you?
speaker2: if you want an answer to that question i can always put one of my men on the job. good afternoon, mr. cross.
speaker1: mr. gittes! you're dealing with a disturbed woman who's lost her husband. i don't want her taken advantage of. sit down.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: you may think you know what you're dealing with, but believe me, you don't.
speaker1: why is that funny?
speaker2: it's what the d.a. used to tell me about chinatown.
speaker1: was he right?
speaker1: ...exactly what do you know about me, mr. gittes?
speaker2: mainly that you're rich and too respectable to want your name in the papers.
speaker1: 'course i'm respectable. i'm old. politicians, ugly buildings and whores all get respectable if they last long enough. i'll double whatever your fees are and i'll pay you ten thousand dollars if you can find hollis' girlfriend.
speaker2: his girlfriend?
speaker1: yes, his girlfriend.
speaker2: you mean the little chippie he was with at the el macando?
speaker1: yes. she's disappeared, hasn't she?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: doesn't that strike you as odd?
speaker2: no. she's probably scared to death.
speaker1: wouldn't it be useful to talk to her?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: if mulwray was murdered, she was probably one of the last people to see him.
speaker2: you didn't see mulwray much, did you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: when was the last time?
speaker1: sheriff's gold posse... bunch of fools who pay $5,000 apiece to the sheriff's reelection. i let 'em practice up out here.
speaker2: yeah. do you remember the last time you talked to mulwray?
speaker1: at my age, you tend to lose track...
speaker2: well, it was about five days ago. you were outside the pig 'n whistle and you had one of an argument.
speaker2: i've got the photographs in my office. if they'll help you remember. what was the argument about?
speaker1: my daughter.
speaker2: what about her?
speaker1: just find the girl, mr. gittes. i think she is frightened and i happen to know hollis was fond of her. i'd like to help her if i can.
speaker2: i didn't realize you and hollis were so fond of each other.
speaker1: hollis mulwray made this city and he made me a fortune... we were a lot closer than evelyn realized.
speaker2: if you want to hire me, i still have to know what you and mulwray were arguing about.
speaker1: well... she's an extremely jealous person. i didn't want her to find out about the girl.
speaker2: how did you find out?
speaker1: i've still got a few teeth in my head, mr. gittes, and a few friends in town.
speaker2: okay. my secretary'll send you a letter of agreement. tell me are you worried about that girl, or what evelyn might do to her?
speaker1: just find the girl.
speaker2: i'll look into it as soon as i check out some avocado groves.
speaker1: avocado groves?
speaker2: we'll be in touch, mr. cross.

speaker1: i'm a little lost. where can i find the plat books for the northwest valley? 
speaker2: part of it's in ventura county. we don't have ventura county in our hall of records.
speaker1: i'll settle for l.a. county.
speaker2: row twenty-three, section c.

speaker1: hauls the huge volume back to the clerk's desk. 
speaker1: say... uh... sonny.
speaker1: how come all these new names are pasted into the plat book?
speaker2: land sales out of escrow are always recorded within the week.
speaker1: then these are all new owners?
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: but that means that most of the valley's been sold in the last few months.
speaker2: if that's what it says.
speaker1: can i check one of these volumes out?
speaker2: sir, this is not a lending library, it's the hall of records.
speaker1: well, then, how about a ruler?
speaker2: a ruler?
speaker1: the print's pretty fine. i forgot my glasses. i'd like to be able to read across.

speaker1: say, pal, what's he doing? 
speaker2: making some rain.
speaker1: well, you're just the man i'm looking for.
speaker1: some associates and i are thinking of buying property out here. of course, we're worried about the rainfall.
speaker3: no problem with me on the job.
speaker1: yeah. do you have any references?

speaker1: city of la habra heights filled an 800,000 gallon reservoir with sixteen inches of rain in two days. 
speaker2: that's swell. but how about here? ever worked for robert knox, emma dill, clarence speer, marian parsons, or jasper lamar crabb?
speaker1: never heard of 'em... new owners?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: lot of turnover these days. better tell them to get in touch with me if they want to hang onto their land.
speaker2: yeah, i'll do that.
speaker3: is now covered with a film of dust:

speaker1: all right, quit it! quit now! search the man, see if he's armed. 
speaker1: i said see if he's armed, not empty his pockets.
speaker2: he ain't armed.
speaker1: all right, mister. who you with? water department or the real estate office?
speaker3: get away from me!
speaker4: answer him!
speaker3: touch me with that thing again and you'll need a pair of them.
speaker2: whyn't you pick on somebody your own size?
speaker1: i said cut that out! give him a chance to say something.
speaker3: name's gittes. i'm a private investigator and i'm not with either one.
speaker1: then what are you doing out here?
speaker3: client hired me to see... whether or not the water department's been irrigating your land.
speaker1: irrigating my land? the water department's been sending you people to blow up my water tanks! they threw poison down three of my wells! i call that a funny way to irrigate. who'd hire you for a thing like that?
speaker3: mrs. evelyn mulwray.
speaker2: mulwray? that's the son of a who's done it to us.
speaker3: mulwray's dead. you don't know what you're talking about, you oakie.
speaker1: well, that's that.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: you didn't look too good, so we thought we better call your employer.

speaker1: look here, if it's all the same with you, we'll get your car patched up. if you'll tell me what your trousers run you, i'll make good on them, mr. gittes. 
speaker2: it's okay, mr. dubois.
speaker3: it's just that they're after everybody out here, tearing up our irrigation ditches trying to make our land worthless so they can pick it up for twenty-five dollars an acre.
speaker2: thanks, earl.
speaker2: thanks for coming...
speaker2: that dam is a con job.
speaker4: what dam?
speaker2: the one your husband opposed. they're conning l.a. into building it, only the water won't go to l.a. it'll go here.
speaker4: the valley?
speaker2: everything you can see, everything around us. i was at the hall of records today. that bother you?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: in the last three months, robert knox has bought 7,000 acres, emma dill 12,000 acres, clarence speer 5,000 acres, and jasper lamar crabb 25,000 acres.
speaker4: jasper lamar crabb?
speaker2: know him?
speaker4: no, i think i'd remember.
speaker2: yeah. they've been blowing these farmers out of here and buying their land for peanuts. have any idea what this land'll be worth with a steady water supply? about thirty million more than they paid.
speaker4: and hollis knew about it?
speaker2: it's why he was killed. jasper lamar crabb. jasper lamar crabb.
speaker2: we got it. we got it, baby.
speaker4: what? what is it?
speaker2: there was a memorial service at the mar vista inn today for jasper lamar crabb. he died three weeks ago.
speaker4: is that unusual?
speaker2: two weeks ago he bought those 25,000 acres. that's unusual.

speaker1: hello there, i'm mr. palmer. can i help you folks? 
speaker2: yes, i sure hope so. it's dad. i just can't handle him anymore, can i, sweetheart?
speaker1: oh my goodness.
speaker2: nothing to do with dad. it's me, actually.
speaker3: they just don't get along very well. dad's a lamb with anyone else.
speaker1: oh, well, i don't know.
speaker2: naturally, i want the best for him, money is no object.
speaker1: perhaps if we could meet your father.
speaker2: there's just one question.
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: do you accept anyone of the jewish persuasion?
speaker1: i'm sorry. we don't.
speaker2: just to be certain, i wonder if you could show us a list of your patients?
speaker1: we don't reveal the names of our guests as a matter of policy. i know you'd appreciate that if your father came to live with us.
speaker2: that's exactly what we wanted to hear.
speaker1: oh, good.
speaker2: i wonder, is it too late for us to have a look around?
speaker1: i don't think so. be happy to show you.
speaker2: would you mind if we took a stroll on our own?
speaker1: just, if you will, confine yourself to the main building. it's nearly bedtime.
speaker2: we understand, c'mon, sweetheart.

speaker1: you're looking at the owners of a 50,000 acre empire. 
speaker2: they can't be.
speaker1: they may not know it but they are.
speaker1: hello, girls.
speaker1: are you emma?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: i've been wanting to meet you.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: did you know that you're a very wealthy woman?
speaker3: i'm not.
speaker1: well you own a lot of land.
speaker3: not anymore. oh, some time ago, my late husband owned a good deal of beach property in long beach, but we lost it.
speaker1: that's just lovely.
speaker3: thank you...
speaker1: where did you get this material?
speaker3: the apple core club.
speaker1: the apple core?
speaker3: no. the albacore. it's a fish. my grandson's a member and they take very nice care of us.
speaker1: how do they do that?
speaker3: give us things. not just some old flag like this, but â–-
speaker1: but what?
speaker4: we're a sort of unofficial charity of theirs, mr. gittes. would you care to come this way? someone wants to see you.
speaker1: see you later, emma.

speaker1: come on i want you to meet somebody, gittes. 
speaker2: can we leave the lady out of this?
speaker1: yeah, why not?
speaker2: okay, i'd like to walk her to her car.
speaker3: i'll stay.
speaker2: get in the car.
speaker1: i'll see she makes it.

speaker1: maid's night off? 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: what do you mean, 'why?' nobody's here, that's all.
speaker2: i gave everybody the night off.
speaker1: easy, it's an innocent question.
speaker2: no question from you is innocent, mr. gittes.
speaker1: i guess not to you, mrs. mulwray. frankly you really saved my a... my neck tonight.
speaker2: tell me something. does this usually happen to you, mr. gittes?
speaker1: what's that, mrs. mulwray?
speaker2: well, i'm only judging on the basis of one afternoon and an evening, but if that's how you go about your work, i'd say you're lucky to get through a whole day.
speaker1: actually this hasn't happened to me in some time.
speaker2: when was the last time?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: just. i don't know why. i'm asking.
speaker1: it was in chinatown.
speaker2: what were you doing there?
speaker1: working for the district attorney.
speaker2: doing what?
speaker1: as little as possible.
speaker2: the district attorney gives his men advice like that?
speaker1: they do in chinatown.
speaker2: bothers you to talk about it, doesn't it?
speaker1: no. i wonder... could i. do you have any peroxide or something?
speaker2: oh sure. c'mon.

speaker1: doctor did a nice job... 
speaker1: boy oh boy, you're a mess.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: so why does it bother you to talk about it... chinatown...
speaker2: bothers everybody who works there, but to me... it was...
speaker1: hold still. why?
speaker2: you can't always tell what's going on there.
speaker1: ...no. why was it.
speaker2: i thought i was keeping someone from being hurt and actually i ended up making sure they were hurt.
speaker1: could you do anything about it?
speaker2: yeah. make sure i don't find myself in chinatown anymore. wait a second.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: your eye.
speaker1: what about it?
speaker2: there's something black in the green part of your eye.
speaker1: oh that... it's a flaw in the iris...
speaker2: ...a flaw...
speaker1: ...yes, sort of a birthmark...

speaker1: hello... no, no, i'll come and help, just keep watching her and don't do anything until i get there... 'bye. view shifts again to include gittes in bed, watching evelyn next to him as she's talking on the phone. she hangs up. she touches gittes' cheek lightly. 
speaker1: i have to go.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: just... i have to.
speaker2: and i want to know where.
speaker1: please don't be angry... believe me, it's got nothing to do with you.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: please!... trust me this much... i'll be back. look, there is something i should tell you. the fishing club that old lady mentioned, the pieces off the flag.
speaker2: the albacore club.
speaker1: it has to do with my father.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: he owns it. you know?
speaker2: i saw him.
speaker1: you saw my fa... father? when?
speaker2: this morning.
speaker1: you didn't tell me.
speaker2: there hasn't been a lot of time.
speaker1: what did he say? what did he say?
speaker2: that you were jealous, and he was worried about what you might do.
speaker1: do? to who?
speaker2: mulwray's girlfriend, for one thing. he wanted to know where she was.
speaker1: i want you to listen to me. my father is a very dangerous man. you don't know how dangerous. you don't know how crazy.
speaker2: give me an example.
speaker1: you may think you know what's going on, but you don't.
speaker2: that's what your father said. you're telling me he's in back of this whole thing?
speaker1: it's possible.
speaker2: including the death of your husband?
speaker1: it's possible. please don't ask me any more questions now. just wait, wait for me. i'll be back. i need you here.

speaker1: okay, give me the keys. 
speaker2: you bastard.
speaker1: it's either that or you drive to the police yourself.
speaker2: the police?
speaker1: c'mon, mrs. mulwray. you've got your husband's girlfriend tied up in there!
speaker2: she's not tied up!
speaker1: you know what i mean. you're keeping her there against her will.
speaker2: i am not!
speaker1: then let's go talk to her.
speaker2: no!
speaker2: she's too upset.
speaker1: what about?
speaker2: hollis' death. i tried to keep it from her, i didn't want her upset before i could make plans for her to leave.
speaker1: you mean she just found out?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: that's not what it looks like, mrs. mulwray.
speaker2: what does it look like?
speaker1: like she knows about hollis' death. like she knows more than you want her to tell.
speaker2: you're insane.
speaker1: just tell me the truth. i'm not the police. i don't care what you've done. i'm not going to hurt you, but one way or another i'm going to know.
speaker2: you won't go to the police if i tell you?
speaker1: i will if you don't.
speaker2: she's my sister.
speaker1: take it easy... if it's your sister it's your sister... why all the secrecy?
speaker2: i can't...
speaker1: because of hollis? because she was seeing your husband? was that it? christ, say something. was that it?
speaker2: i would never ever have harmed hollis. i loved him more than my own family. he was the most gentle, decent man imaginable... and he put up with more from me than you'll ever know... i just wanted him to be happy...
speaker1: i took your husband's buick... i'll return it tomorrow.
speaker2: aren't you coming back with me?
speaker1: don't worry. i'm not telling anybody about this.
speaker2: ...that's not what i meant.
speaker1: yeah, well... i'm very tired, mrs. mulwray. good night.

speaker1: gittes?... gittes? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: ida sessions wants to see you.
speaker2: who?
speaker3: ida sessions, you remember ida.
speaker2: yeah?... i do?
speaker1: sure you do.
speaker2: well, tell you what, pal. if ida wants to see me she can call me at my office.
speaker1: 684 1/2 east tensington. echo park. she begged me to call. she's waiting for you.

speaker1: find anything interesting, gittes? 
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: didn't you call?
speaker1: how do you happen to know her?
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: let me show you something.

speaker1: isn't that your number? 
speaker2: is it? i forget. i don't call myself that often.
speaker1: just to be on the safe side, we had loach here give you a ring.
speaker3: what happened to your nose, gittes? somebody slam a bedroom window on it?
speaker1: loach. how about these? look familiar?
speaker2: yeah, i took 'em. so what?
speaker1: how did she... ...happen to have them?
speaker2: either you tell me or i guess 'cause i don't have the answer.
speaker1: you really think i'm stupid, don't you, gittes?
speaker2: i don't think about it one way or the other. but if you want, give me a day or two, and i'll get back to you. now i'd like to go home.
speaker1: i want the rest of the pictures.
speaker2: what pictures?
speaker1: this broad hired you, gittes, not evelyn mulwray.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: yeah. somebody wanted to shake down mulwray, she hired you, and that's how you happen to know mulwray was murdered.
speaker2: i heard it was an accident.
speaker1: c'mon, you think you're dealing with a bunch of assholes? mulwray had salt water in his goddam lungs! now how did he get that... in a fresh water reservoir?
speaker1: you were following him night and day. you saw who killed him. you even took pictures of it. it was evelyn mulwray. she's been paying you off like a slot machine ever since her husband died.
speaker2: you accusing me of extortion?
speaker1: absolutely.
speaker2: i don't think i need a day or two. you're even dumber than you think i think you are. not only that, i'd never extort a nickel out of my worst enemy, that's where i draw the line, escobar.
speaker1: yeah, i once knew a who for enough money would in a customer's face, but she'd never on his chest. that's where she drew the line.
speaker2: well, i hope she wasn't too much of a disappointment to you, lou.
speaker1: i want those photographs, gittes. we're talking about accessory after the fact, conspiracy, and extortion. minimum.
speaker2: why do you think mulwray's body was moved you dimwit? evelyn mulwray knocked off her husband in the ocean and thought it would look like more of an accident if she hauled him up to the oak pass reservoir?
speaker2: mulwray was murdered and moved because somebody didn't want his body found in the ocean.
speaker1: and why's that?
speaker2: he found out somebody was dumping water there. that's what they were trying to cover up by moving him.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: c'mon i'll show you.
speaker2: c'mon make a decision, lou. you're in charge.

speaker1: it's too late. 
speaker2: too late for what?
speaker1: they only dump the water at night.
speaker2: reach anybody?
speaker3: yelburton, he's the new chief.
speaker2: i know who he is. well?
speaker3: he says â–-
speaker1: i know what he says.
speaker2: shut up. go on.
speaker3: yelburton says they're irrigating in the valley. there's always a little runoff when they do that. and he says is gittes knows that, and has been going around making irresponsible accusations for the last week.
speaker4: let's swear out a warrant for her arrest. what are we waiting for?
speaker1: because he just made lieutenant, and he wants to hang onto his little gold bar.
speaker2: have your client in my office in two hours and remember. i don't have to let you go. i've got you for withholding evidence right now.

speaker1: where's mrs. mulwray? 
speaker2: no esta.
speaker1: is mrs. mulwray going someplace?... on a trip?... vacation?...
speaker2: no esta in casa.

speaker1: spots gittes, half-bows, nods and smiles. 
speaker2: in turn, nods, smiles.
speaker2: bad for glass.
speaker1: breaks into a big grin. nods again.
speaker1: oh yes, bad for glass.
speaker1: salt water velly bad for glass.
speaker2: can't quite believe what he's heard,
speaker2: salt water?
speaker1: velly velly bad.

speaker1: what's that... down there? 
speaker1: ...there.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: have you got your checkbook handy, mr. cross? i've got the girl.
speaker1: you've got her? where?
speaker2: do you remember the figures we discussed?
speaker1: of course i do. where are you?
speaker2: at your daughter's house. how soon can you get here?
speaker1: two hours... tell me, will evelyn be there as well?
speaker2: either that or she'll be in jail.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: just bring your checkbook.

speaker1: you wait. 
speaker2: you wait.
speaker3: how are you? i was calling you.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker3: did you get some sleep?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: did you have lunch? kyo will fix you something.
speaker2: where's the girl?
speaker3: upstairs. why?
speaker2: i want to see her.
speaker3: ...she's having a bath now... why do you want to see her?
speaker2: going somewhere?
speaker3: yes, we've got a 4:30 train to catch. why?
speaker2: j. j. gittes for lieutenant escobar
speaker3: what are you doing? what's wrong? i told you we've got a 4:30.
speaker2: you're going to miss your train! lou, meet me at 1412 adelaide. it's above santa monica canyon... yeah, soon as you can.
speaker3: what did you do that for?
speaker2: you know any good criminal lawyers?
speaker3: no...
speaker2: don't worry. i can recommend a couple. they're expensive but you can afford it.
speaker3: what the is this all about?
speaker2: i found these in your backyard... in your fish pond. they belonged to your husband, didn't they?... didn't they?
speaker3: i don't know. i mean yes, probably.
speaker2: yes positively. that's where he was drowned...
speaker3: what are you saying?
speaker2: there's no time for you to be shocked by the truth, mrs. mulwray. the coroner's report proves he was killed in salt water. just take my word for it. now i want to know how it happened and why. i want to know before escobar gets here because i want to hang onto my license.
speaker3: i don't know what you're talking about. this is the most insane... the craziest thing i ever...
speaker2: stop it! i'll make it easy. you were jealous, you fought, he fell, hit his head. it was an accident, but his girl is a witness. you've had to pay her off. you don't have the stomach to harm her, but you've got the money to shut her up. yes or no?
speaker3: ...no...
speaker2: who is she? and don't give me that about it being your sister. you don't have a sister.
speaker3: i'll tell you the truth...
speaker2: that's good. now what's her name?
speaker3: katherine.
speaker2: katherine?... katherine who?
speaker3: she's my daughter.
speaker2: i said the truth!
speaker3: she's my sister.
speaker3: she's my daughter.
speaker3: my sister.
speaker3: my daughter, my sister.
speaker2: i said i want the truth.
speaker3: she's my sister and my daughter!
speaker3: for sake, kyo, keep her upstairs, go back!
speaker3: my father and i, understand, or is it too tough for you?
speaker3: ...he had a breakdown... the dam broke... my mother died... he became a little boy... i was fifteen... he'd ask me what to eat for breakfast, what clothes to wear!... it happened... then i ran away...
speaker2: to mexico...
speaker3: hollis came and took... care of me... after she was born... he said... he took care of her... i couldn't see her... i wanted to but i couldn't... i just want to see her once in a while... take care of her... that's all... but i don't want her to know... i don't want her to know...
speaker2: ...so that's why you hate him...
speaker3: no... for turning his back on me after it happened! he couldn't face it... i hate him.
speaker2: yeah... where are you taking her now?
speaker3: back to mexico.
speaker2: you can't go by train. escobar'll be looking for you everywhere.
speaker3: how about a plane?
speaker2: that's worse... just get out of here. walk out, leave everything.
speaker3: i have to go home and get my things.
speaker2: i'll take care of it.
speaker3: where can we go?
speaker2: ...where does kyo live?
speaker3: with us.
speaker2: on his day off. get the exact address.
speaker3: okay...
speaker3: those didn't belong to hollis.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker3: he didn't wear bifocals.

speaker1: say hello to mr. gittes, sweetheart. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: rises a little shakily from the arm of the sofa.
speaker3: hello.
speaker1: he lives at 1712 alameda... do you know where that is?
speaker4: he nods slowly.
speaker3: sure. it's chinatown.

speaker1: sophie... is walsh there?... yeah, listen, pal, escobar's going to try and book me in about five minutes... relax, i'll tell you. wait in the office for two hours. if you don't hear from me, you and duffy meet me at 1712 alameda. 
speaker2: that's in chinatown, ain't it?
speaker1: i know where it is! just do it.
speaker1: come on in, lou. we're both too late.
speaker1: looks like she flew the coop.
speaker3: i don't suppose you got any idea where she went?
speaker1: matter of fact i do.
speaker3: where?
speaker1: her maid's house. i think she knows something's up.
speaker3: what's the maid's address?
speaker1: she lives in pedro. i'll write it down for you.
speaker3: no, gittes, you'll show us.
speaker1: what for?
speaker3: if she's not there, you're going downtown, and you're staying there til she shows up.
speaker1: gee, lou, i'm doing the best i can.
speaker3: tell us about it on the way to pedro.

speaker1: that's it? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well, let's go.
speaker2: do me a favor, will you, lou?
speaker2: let me bring her down myself... she's not armed or nothing... she won't be any problem... i'd just like a minute alone with her... it would mean something... to... her... and to me. escobar shakes his head. for a moment it looks like it means no.
speaker1: you never learn, do you, gittes?
speaker2: i guess not.
speaker1: give you three minutes.
speaker2: gee, thanks, lou.
speaker3: yes?...
speaker4: gee, this is a surprise, mr. gittes.
speaker2: call me jake. how is everything?
speaker4: just sitting down to supper, jake. care to join us?
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker4: how about a glass of wine? honey, this is...
speaker5: yes, i know.
speaker2: thanks just the same, curly. i could use a glass of water, though. come out with me to the kitchen for a second.
speaker4: sure thing.

speaker1: curly, where's your car? 
speaker2: in the garage.
speaker1: where's that?
speaker2: off the alley.
speaker1: could you drive me somewhere?
speaker2: sure, as soon as we eat.
speaker1: right now, curly. it can't wait.
speaker2: i'll just tell my wife.
speaker1: tell her later.

speaker1: just drive slow for a block or two, will you, curly? 
speaker2: what's this all about?
speaker1: tell you in a couple of blocks.

speaker1: how much do you owe me, curly? 
speaker2: oh, gee, mr. gittes we're going out tomorrow. i know you been real good about it but my cousin auggie's sick.
speaker1: forget it. how would you like to pay me off by taking a couple of passengers to ensenada... you'd have to leave tonight.
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: i might be able to squeeze an extra seventy-five bucks out of it for you. maybe an even hundred.
speaker2: plus what i owe you?
speaker1: i'll throw that in too.
speaker2: okay, you got yourself a boat.

speaker1: tell mrs. mulwray to wait for half an hour after you get there. then if i don't show, take her down to the boat. 
speaker2: you sure this is okay?
speaker1: curly, you know how long i been in business.

speaker1: there you are. 
speaker1: well, you don't look any the worse for wear, mr. gittes, i must say... where's the girl?...
speaker2: i've got her.
speaker1: is she all right?
speaker2: she's fine.
speaker1: where is she?
speaker2: with her mother.
speaker1: ...with her mother?
speaker2: i'd like you to look at something, mr. cross.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: an obituary column... can you read in this light?
speaker1: yes... i think i can manage...

speaker1: what does this mean? 
speaker2: that you killed hollis mulwray.
speaker2: right here, in this pond. you drowned him... and you left these.
speaker2: ...the coroner's report showed mulwray had salt water in his lungs.
speaker1: hollie was always fond of tide-pools. you know what he used to say about them?
speaker2: haven't the faintest idea.
speaker1: that's where life begins... marshes, sloughs, tide-pools... he was fascinated by them... you know when we first came out here he figured that if you dumped water onto desert sand it would percolate down into the bedrock and stay there, instead of evaporating the way it does in most reservoirs. you'd lose only twenty percent instead of seventy or eighty. he made this city.
speaker2: and that's what you were going to do in the valley?

speaker1: no, mr. gittes. that's what i am doing with the valley. the bond issue passes tuesday. there'll be ten million to build an aqueduct and reservoir. i'm doing it. 
speaker2: there's going to be some irate citizens when they find out they're paying for water they're not getting.
speaker1: that's all taken care of. you see, mr. gittes. either you bring the water to l.a. or you bring l.a. to the water.
speaker2: how do you do that?
speaker1: just incorporate the valley into the city so the water goes to l.a. after all. it's very simple.
speaker2: how much are you worth?
speaker1: i have no idea. how much do you want?
speaker2: i want to know what you're worth. over ten million?
speaker1: oh, my, yes.
speaker2: then why are you doing it? how much better can you eat? what can you buy that you can't already afford?
speaker1: the future, mr. gittes. the future. now where's the girl?... i want the only daughter i have left... as you found out, evelyn was lost to me a long time ago.
speaker2: who do you blame for that? her?
speaker1: i don't blame myself. you see, mr. gittes, most people never have to face the fact that at the right time and right place, they're capable of anything. take those glasses from him, will you, claude?
speaker1: it's not worth it, mr. gittes. it's really not worth it.
speaker1: take us to the girl. either evelyn allows me to see her, or i'm not averse to seeing evelyn in jail. if i have to buy the jail. hollis and evelyn kept her from me for fifteen years. it's been too long, i'm too old.

speaker1: stop the car. stop the car! 
speaker1: katherine! katherine! wait!

speaker1: no, don't help him. don't do anything. 
speaker1: she's gone. it's no good.
speaker2: where?
speaker3: let me handle that.
speaker1: i'm all right.
speaker3: sure, but i'd like to handle it.
speaker2: you're going to have to kill me, evelyn. either that or tell me where she is.
speaker2: how many years have i got?... she's mine too.
speaker1: she's never going to know that.
speaker3: duffy, go over and sit on mulvihill. christ, i didn't tell you to bring the police department with you.
speaker4: jake, it's chinatown. they're all over the place. you oughta know better.
speaker5: mrs. mulwray, you don't want to run around like that.
speaker3: oh, christ. escobar, you don't know what's going on. let her go. i'll explain it later.
speaker5: mrs. mulwray, it's a very serious offense pointing that at an officer of the law. it's a felony.
speaker3: let her go. she didn't kill anybody.
speaker5: i'm sorry, mrs. mulwray.
speaker3: lou, she will kill you. let her go for now. you don't know.
speaker5: gittes, stay outta this.
speaker3: now take off.
speaker5: i'll just have her followed. she's not going anywhere.
speaker3: no!
speaker3: where is he? i'll kill him, i'll kill the son of a
speaker3: who is he, get his name? i'll kill him.
speaker5: take it easy, take it easy, it was an accident.
speaker3: an accident?
speaker3: get him away from her. he's responsible for everything. get him away from her!
speaker5: jake, you're very disturbed. you're crazy. that's her father.

