speaker1: all right, who's in raise your hand. 
speaker2: are you coming or not thomas j?
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker1: i knew he wouldn't come.
speaker3: i can't, i have to go home.
speaker4: yeah, to play with his dolls.
speaker1: leave him alone! come on, let's go. group of boys enters house lead by vada once inside, the group is suddenly stopped
speaker1: hey, you didn't pay me!
speaker4: how do i know you were gonna show us one?
speaker1: you're such a baby.
speaker4: all right, here.
speaker1: all right, follow me and don't say a word.
speaker5: i'm not chicken!
speaker1: okay. lean forward.
speaker6: it's empty!
speaker4: you're so weird!
speaker2: i want my money back!
speaker1: i was afraid of this.
speaker4: of what??
speaker1: well, sometimes when we get 'em, they're not completely dead, you know, like when they cut a chickens head off and it still runs around crazy.
speaker5: you're full of
speaker1: i bet she's roaming around this house somewhere.
speaker1: hi grammoo.
speaker7: vada would you bring down my cigarettes?
speaker1: seeya later.

speaker1: did i tell you, he was my woodshop teacher. 
speaker2: you took woodshop?
speaker1: yeah, i made a tie rack.
speaker2: i made a tie rack.
speaker3: ahem.
speaker1: vada, just put 'em on the stool.
speaker3: daddy guess what i beat thomas j in monopoly yesterday.
speaker1: ya, that rack holds six ties.
speaker2: i still have mine.
speaker3: arthur!!
speaker2: vada!!
speaker3: i beat thomas j in monopoly yesterday.
speaker2: good for you baby.
speaker3: once you put the hotels on board walk and park place he puts a shoe in your way.
speaker2: i like to buy off all the railroads.
speaker1: vada, we're trying to work here.

speaker1: cruella deville stole all the puppies, she was gonna make a fur out of 'em! 
speaker2: hand me the canula.

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: i'm embalming my high school teacher, don't sing. all right arthur, just a slide of the needle.....

speaker1: is mr. harry sultenfuss in? 
speaker2: sure, come on in.
speaker1: could i see your dad, just for a second?

speaker1: oh. 
speaker2: how may i... help you?
speaker1: i'm shelly devoto. we spoke, the other day regarding the make up artist job.
speaker2: oh yes.
speaker3: it's still available i hope?
speaker2: i think it's still available.
speaker3: i'm a licensed cosmetologist, i worked for two years, at the "dino raphael" salon, all my customers cried when i told them i was leaving.
speaker2: uhh, miss devoto...
speaker3: i have a wonderful disposition, i put people right at ease.
speaker2: uhh, miss devoto, these people are already at ease. this is not a beauty parlor, it's a funeral parlor.
speaker3: they're dead?
speaker2: yes they are.
speaker3: stiffs??
speaker2: deceased.
speaker3: the add just said "makeup artist" doorbell rings
speaker2: ahh, excuse me a second will you? hi george, this is a twelve-fifty-eight, i didn't want the burnished handles. vada looks out the window at shelly's camper
speaker4: is that your camper?
speaker3: yes it is.
speaker4: that's really cool.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: she's shy.
speaker3: oh.
speaker2: just put it back in the display room fellers.
speaker5: okay harry.
speaker4: daddy, how come that coffin's so small?
speaker2: they come in all sizes honey, just like shoes.
speaker4: is it for a child?
speaker2: of course not.
speaker4: then who's it for?
speaker2: short people, very short people.
speaker3: excuse me, what about the job?
speaker2: pardon?
speaker3: i need the job.
speaker2: oh, you still want it? even though uhh...
speaker3: ohh, oh sure it's no big deal, you see all my former clients will eventually die, and all your clients used to be alive, so they have something in common.
speaker2: you'd be doing hair and makeup and answering the phone.
speaker3: okay mr. sultenfuss, you got a deal.
speaker2: great, you can start right away. call me
speaker3: i promise i'll take good care of these people, they deserve it, they're dead, all they've got left is their looks.

speaker1: hey look at this, no feet! 
speaker2: oh wow, a real evil canieval.

speaker1: hi vada, what's wrong today? 
speaker2: i'm very sick.
speaker1: okay, take a seat, i'll check if the doctor can see you.
speaker1: okay, he'll see you, why don't you go in? vada opens door to doctors surgery and enters

speaker1: well, what is it? i can handle it. 
speaker2: you are perfectly healthy.
speaker1: that can't be, i have all the classic symptoms.
speaker2: sweetheart, did they bring mr. layton to your house today?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: vada you've gotta stop this, there's absolutely nothing wrong with you!
speaker1: i'll just have to get a second opinion.

speaker1: so, what'd he say was wrong with you? 
speaker2: the whole medical profession is a crack. thomas j is trying to catch up
speaker1: hey wait up for me!

speaker1: hey look! 
speaker2: at what?
speaker1: that's mr. bixler, let's go talk to him.
speaker2: i don't wanna talk to a teacher, it's summer!
speaker1: hi mr. bixler!
speaker3: mademoiselle sultenfuss and the amazing dr. j! how's the summer treating you?
speaker1: it's okay. mr. bixler, i finished all the books for summer reading.
speaker3: really? already? the summer's just begun.
speaker1: yes, and now i'm reading war and peace for fun.
speaker3: no wonder you're my prize pupil. what about you thomas j?
speaker2: i haven't started yet.
speaker3: better get on his case vada.
speaker1: mr. bixler, how come you're painting this old house?
speaker3: well i just bought it, now i'm fixing it up.
speaker1: this is one big house for one single person.
speaker3: well, you never can tell... i might get a pet.
speaker1: how are you gonna get the money for this old house if you're not working?
speaker3: well i'm gonna teach creative writing this summer, so, i'm doing some work.
speaker1: how much does it cost?
speaker3: thirty five dollars.
speaker1: what do you get for that?
speaker3: me, two hours a week, talking about poetry. this an interrogation vada?
speaker1: no. well, guess i'll go home and finish off war and peace.
speaker3: it's summer! you're kids! go play!

speaker1: wanna go to gray's orchard and pick some peaches? 
speaker2: no, i'm going home.
speaker1: why? it's not dinner time yet.
speaker2: dinner time?? you're like a dog! you just go home to eat. vada accelerates leaving thomas j in her tracks don't pee on the hydrant!!
speaker3: vada puts a record on to play.

speaker1: excuse me harry, i finished mr. layton's hair. he kinda looked...... harry, what's wrong with her?? 
speaker2: oh, she's just pretending. vada, get up here and eat your broccoli! shelly moves over and crouches down next to vada
speaker3: i think it's my prostate.
speaker4: i got rhythm, i got music, i got my man who could ask for anything more? i got daisies, in green pastures, i got my man, who could ask for anything more?

speaker1: who's winning? 
speaker2: i am.
speaker3: look, there's vada and her little boyfriend
speaker2: he is not my boyfriend!
speaker4: i bet she kissed him on the lips!
speaker2: do you think i kissed that ugly old thing?
speaker5: yeah anyway.
speaker4: come on let's go.

speaker1: maybe you can come some time. 
speaker2: eeeuww, don't invite her, she'll have to bring her boyfriend.
speaker3: you know vada, you shouldn't let those girls upset you.
speaker4: i'm not upset. i will never play with those girls. i only surround myself with people who i find intellectually stimulating.
speaker3: want a piece of chocolate?
speaker3: thomas j?
speaker5: i'm allergic to it.
speaker3: to chocolate?
speaker4: he's allergic to everything.
speaker3: chocolate?

speaker1: ooh, that's a pretty ring you're wearing. 
speaker2: it's a mood ring, it tells what mood i'm in.
speaker3: it doesn't work, it always stays black.
speaker2: it's only black when you're around 'cause you put me in a bad mood.
speaker1: maybe black means you're happy?
speaker2: i don't think so. shelly, how can i get thirty five dollars?
speaker3: she's crazy, she wants to go to school over the summer.
speaker2: it's not a real school, it's a writing class, i wanna be a writer.
speaker3: she only wants to do it because her sweetie pie's the teacher.
speaker2: shut your big fat mouth!
speaker1: i think you'd make a fine writer, did you ask your dad?
speaker2: he won't give it to me.
speaker1: well you don't know that. ask him.

speaker1: daddy, can i have thirty five dollars? 
speaker2: that's a lot of money for a little girl.
speaker1: it's for school, for summer writing class.
speaker2: any more soda left?
speaker1: shelly thinks i'd be a good writer.
speaker2: last month you wanted to play the violin. then you wanted to be a ventriloquist.
speaker1: dad?
speaker2: i love this guy!
speaker1: dad??
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the money?
speaker2: ahh, maybe next summer.
speaker3: he forgot about the time i wanted to be a magician, i was really great at making myself disappear.

speaker1: wanna play? 
speaker2: no, i gotta go to the cemetery, keep your

speaker1: vada? vada?? what happened?? 
speaker2: my ball, i lost my ball.
speaker1: come on sweetie.

speaker1: excuse me harry? 
speaker2: uh huh?
speaker1: could you take a look at mrs. porter?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: yeah, harry compares photo with mrs. porter's face
speaker1: you don't like it?
speaker2: this was the reverend porter's wife, you have her looking like a two dollar hooker.
speaker2: she did. this photo was taken a month ago at the church food drive.
speaker1: i just wanted to get past this "old school marm" image.
speaker2: that wasn't an image. she was an old school marm. fix it. harry begins to leave
speaker1: harry? i was just wondering, if there is anything wrong with vada.
speaker2: what do you mean??
speaker1: well the other night at dinner...
speaker2: oh that, she just likes to play.
speaker1: i don't think so, i think she's confused about death.
speaker2: she was raised in a funeral home, she knows a thing or two about it.
speaker1: harry, i really think she.....

speaker1: there's shelly! 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: can we look around in your camper?
speaker2: sure. i'll give you the royal tour. vada and thomas j rush inside the camper woah! gosh!
speaker3: wow, this is the coolest thing, like you really eat and sleep here?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker3: i'm gonna drive us to liverpool.
speaker2: liverpool?
speaker1: big ringo fan.
speaker2: ohh, right. would you like a soda?
speaker1: i would.
speaker2: thomas?
speaker3: yes please.
speaker3: what are you reading?
speaker2: oh! you shouldn't be looking at that, it's a little too old for you. she takes the book away from her
speaker1: did you read all these books?
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: what are they about?
speaker2: mostly love, and romance.
speaker3: eeeeuuuww, gross.
speaker2: they're just fun to read. shelly hands the soda around here, cheers.
speaker1: are you married?
speaker2: no, i'm divorced.
speaker1: daddy said it's bad when people get divorced.
speaker2: well, sometimes married people just find out they can't live with each other.
speaker3: mine aren't divorced.
speaker2: with bottle of soda in mouth hmmmph gurgle gurgle...
speaker3: hey, where are all the cookies??
speaker2: well, i guess you found my secret hiding place.
speaker3: what are you saving for?
speaker2: nothing in particular, just putting it away for a rainy day.
speaker3: i'm supposed to be home at noon for lunch, thanks shelly. thomas j leaves
speaker2: bye. well miss vada, what d'you say we head back?
speaker1: can i use your bathroom first?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you don't have to wait, daddy'll be mad if you're late.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: the great way, is not difficult for those 
speaker2: i got one. he gets up
speaker3: that's not funny, his poem is about futility, we toil in unrewarded obscurity.
speaker1: now, i hear judgment, let's not forget the part about the open heart...
speaker4: i paid the money.
speaker1: for this class?
speaker4: uh huh, i wanna be a writer.
speaker1: vada, this is an adult writing class.
speaker5: hey, i think it's real beautiful. she want's to be a writer.
speaker1: vada, you sure you wanna do this?
speaker1: welcome to the class, go find a seat. the class applauds okay ahh, who's next?
speaker6: i experienced something with my boyfriend the other day, and i wrote a few words down.
speaker1: the floor's yours ronda.
speaker6: he covers me like a blanket, from the cold, dark night, as i look into his eyes, i know it's right, to touch, to feel, i know he's real, flesh all a mush, flesh all a mush, i can't fight it, there's no point, i wake up in lighter joint.
speaker1: uhhh, va, uhh, vada.
speaker4: i wrote a poem too.
speaker1: please.
speaker4: loads of ice-cream by vada sultenfuss
speaker5: i hear that vada, flesh all a mush or rocky road, it's about desire.
speaker1: vada that's... it's very sweet, and it rhymes and that's also good but, you're not expressing to me what's in your soul. i want you to show me how you see the world, your fears, your desires, your innermost secrets.
speaker7: my fears and secrets. i'm afraid i killed my mother.

speaker1: can not do without, harry's wild about me. 
speaker2: excuse me harry, i'm sorry, i just wanna let you know that the flowers were delivered. and the room's all set up.
speaker1: thanks, listen i wanna apologize for the other day downstairs, about vada, i was a little harsh.
speaker2: i shouldn't stick my nose in other people's business. it's just that i like vada, very much.
speaker1: after my wife died, grammoo moved in here to help take care of vada. they were very close, but lately as her mind's been wandering more and more, vada's been acting kinda crazy. i'm sure she'll snap out of it though.
speaker2: i'm sure she will.

speaker1: nothing's biting today. 
speaker2: maybe they had a big breakfast.
speaker1: i'm gonna be an acrobat when i grow up.
speaker2: big deal, i can do that too. thomas j, you got something!
speaker1: oh no!

speaker1: hurry! 
speaker2: i'm trying.
speaker1: reel it in. he's only tiny, throw him back.
speaker2: i don't like touching fish, how do you pull the hook out without touching it? thomas j puts his foot on the fish and pulls
speaker1: you're hurting him, don't kill him!!
speaker1: ouch! darn hook!
speaker1: i'm bleeding, did he get away? go look.
speaker2: yeah he got away. come on let's go.
speaker1: hey, we can become blood brothers.
speaker2: naah, i don't wanna.
speaker1: you could pick that scab on your arm.
speaker2: it's a mosquito bite.
speaker1: it'll bleed.
speaker2: if i do it, can we go?
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: okay, ow!
speaker1: okay, rub them together.
speaker1: now we're blood brothers for life.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: oh hi, what can i do for you?
speaker1: nothing, i was just wondering what you were doing.
speaker2: oh, i'm just typing up a funeral notice, you know when someone dies people want it in the paper usually, it's a service we provide for the family.
speaker1: oh right, right, . bader lorenzo died june 22 1972 devoted husband to nicolette. cherished father of babritzio and heidi, in lieu of flowers, please send donations to the holy names society.
speaker2: i wrote that.
speaker1: no kidding?
speaker1: oh it's good, "in lieu of" i love that word lieu.
speaker2: i prefer it to "instead", it has more dignity.
speaker1: in lieu... "instead".... no contest.
speaker2: it's no big deal.
speaker1: you have to learn how to take a complement. movies, movies, ahhhh, "love story" at the drive in, i cried my eyes out, did you see it?
speaker2: i haven't been to the movies in ages.
speaker1: i love going to movies, especially at the drive in. i don't think there's anything more romantic than going to the drive in. i'll let you get back to work.
speaker2: i do enjoy playing bingo, if you'd like to join me for a game tomorrow night at church you're welcome to.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: hi vada. 
speaker2: are you going out somewhere?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: so how come you're putting lipstick on?
speaker1: a girl's always gotta look her best.
speaker2: i think lipstick looks fake, no-ones lips are that color.
speaker1: have you ever tried any?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: come here, sit down.
speaker1: now, first we blot.
speaker1: take a look. i think it looks real nice on you. vada looks in shelly's mirror
speaker2: shelly, do you think i'm pretty?
speaker1: yes, vada i think you're very pretty. you've got these great big sparkling eyes, the cutest little nose, an amazing mouth.
speaker2: the boys at school don't think i am.
speaker1: they'll come around. close your eyes, i wanna bring out the gorgeous color in them. the first rule in applying eye makeup, is you can never wear enough blue eye shadow.
speaker2: do you like putting makeup on people?
speaker1: uh huh, i've been trying to get out to
speaker2: shelly, i would definitely hold off on that hollywood thing.

speaker1: your lip bleeding? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what's wrong with your eyes?
speaker2: a girl can never wear enough eye shadow.
speaker1: where's your bike?
speaker2: oh, in the garage. walk me over.
speaker2: it's only a garage, come on.
speaker2: hey, one of my streamers is gone! it probably fell off in here. thomas j walks over to a model of a head
speaker1: hey look at this!
speaker2: that was grammoo's. it's a phrenology chart, they used to study the bumps in your head to see if you had a good personality or not. come here, i'll diagnose your head.
speaker1: no, i don't wanna.
speaker2: come on, it's fun.
speaker2: hmmmm, interesting.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you have no personality.
speaker1: hey, where does it say that?
speaker2: never mind.
speaker1: is that your dad?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: who's that with your dad?
speaker2: it's my mother.
speaker1: do you remember her?
speaker2: no. grammoo said she's in heaven.
speaker1: what do you think it's like?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: heaven.
speaker2: i think, everybody gets their own white horse, and all they do is ride and eat marshmallows all day, and everybody's best friends with everybody else, when you play sports, there's no teams, so nobody gets picked last.
speaker1: but, what if you're afraid to ride horses?
speaker2: it doesn't matter, 'cause they're not regular horses, they got wings, and it's no big deal if you fall, you just land in cloud.
speaker1: that doesn't sound so bad, come on, we'll never find that streamer.

speaker1: the tune "moonglow" is playing on the radio 
speaker2: well well well, what's going on in here?
speaker3: nothing, i'm dressing.
speaker2: oh, you're dressing, uh huh, harry harry harry harry, don't you know it's not nice to lie to your big brother? phil then proceeds to give harry a noogie

speaker1: oh yes, oh that's great. 
speaker2: i'm very nervous.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: the last date i had was twenty years ago.
speaker1: that's true. harry harry sit down, let me fill you in on today's women, since the last time you dated, something happened, "the sexual revolution", now before that, you used to have to hold a door open for a woman, pull her chair out, pick up the check, no more no more, you wanna know what else is missing?

speaker1: oh come on. 
speaker2: harry, i'm serious, trust me harry this woman's lifting us in, you gotta treat her like every tom and harry.
speaker1: are you sure about all this?
speaker2: did you not tell vada i'm a womanizer huh?
speaker1: oh, i'm running late. shelly'll be here any minute.
speaker2: oh she's picking you up, good you're on the right track.
speaker1: no, she's just driving over here, then we're taking my car. how do i look?
speaker2: like a sultenfuss. go get 'em.
speaker1: goodnight vada.
speaker3: dad, why are you dressed up to go to bingo?
speaker1: ahh, i just wanna look nice.
speaker3: you never cared before.
speaker1: well shelly's coming over, we're gonna go together.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: she likes to play bingo.
speaker3: can i go too?
speaker1: naah, i think you'd better stay here and keep grammoo company.

speaker1: vada? vada?? where are you?? 
speaker2: here.
speaker1: don't do that!!
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: what do you want? my mom will skin me alive if she finds i'm out here.
speaker2: let's go to the church, they're playing bingo tonight.
speaker1: i told you i'll get in trouble.
speaker2: pacifist!
speaker1: i am not.
speaker2: bed wetter!
speaker1: i stopped that!

speaker1: don't worry, there's a strategy to bingo. for instance, on a given night anybody can win, but i play the odds, when choosing bingo cards, i use a range of theories from the laws of probability to avoiding duplicate number systems. this way you get much more activity. 
speaker2: does it make it easier to win?
speaker1: no. just, more activity.
speaker1: hi carl.
speaker3: vada and thomas j are walking up to the church
speaker4: they're not gonna let us in vada, we're kids.
speaker5: we're not gonna bet, we're just gonna watch.
speaker4: watch bingo? i don't even like to play bingo.
speaker5: duck!
speaker2: oh great!
speaker4: hey there's your dad and shelly.
speaker5: ssshhhhh, i don't want them to see me.
speaker2: aarrggh.

speaker1: i just had a terrible thought harry. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: i'm gonna be putting makeup on some of these people very soon.
speaker2: why d'you think these seats were empty.

speaker1: can we go yet? 
speaker2: go???
speaker1: you know i'm not allowed outside my myself after dark.

speaker1: oh, i'm just not lucky harry. 
speaker2: look, it's not always luck, i mean, depending upon the placement of the numbers, a guy with 10 cards could win just as easily as a guy with 100.
speaker1: kinda like men.
speaker2: oh, how do you mean?
speaker1: you can be in a room with 100 men, and not like any of them, or you can be in a room with just one man, and he's exactly the one you want.

speaker1: there was no bingo, it came from outside. 
speaker2: how could someone outside get a bingo?
speaker1: someone outside didn't get a bingo, someone outside yelled bingo you
speaker2: who are you calling a mowon?
speaker3: put a lid on it vernon!
speaker1: put a lid on it?? if you weren't 200 years old, i'd kick your wrinkled arse!!
speaker4: hey fellers fellers, it's just a bingo game. meanwhile, shelly has found it all rather amusing

speaker1: i had a good time tonight. 
speaker2: i haven't had a bingo partner in ages.
speaker1: would you like to come in and see my house? just for a minute.
speaker2: okay, sure.

speaker1: home sweet home. 
speaker2: it's nice.
speaker1: i did it myself. i read a magazine article about how to maximize small spaces.
speaker2: well it certainly looks bigger that it seems.
speaker1: you can look in the bathroom if you want. people are always curious about that, like what happens when you flush.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: are you mad at me?
speaker2: no, why?
speaker1: i don't know, tonight you just seemed a little cool, not opening car doors and...
speaker2: oh, that was phil, trying to give me advice on dating 70's women. look i'm so out of touch, i haven't dated women in ages, not since my wife died.
speaker1: what happened to her?
speaker2: ahh, complications during child birth, she died two days after vada was born.
speaker1: did she ever see vada?
speaker2: i brought the baby into the room a couple of times, she opened her eyes, yeah, yeah i think she saw vada. it was.....
speaker1: dance with me?
speaker2: here?
speaker1: this is where we are.
speaker2: is there enough room?
speaker2: i haven't danced in.....
speaker1: in ages, i know, me neither.
speaker2: rock?
speaker1: see, you're not that out of touch. you're good.
speaker2: at widdman high i was considered a pretty hot date, i did a killer frugue. shelly smells harry's neck
speaker1: what are you wearing?
speaker2: old spice, phil says it's a timeless classic. they continue to dance
speaker1: do you want to?
speaker2: want to what?
speaker1: kiss me.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: good.
speaker1: good at kissing, and dancing, i'm very optimistic.
speaker2: i ahh, better go.
speaker1: it's only eight o'clock.
speaker2: goodnight shelly.
speaker1: goodnight.

speaker1: well, i guess it's official we had a date, maybe we can play bingo again sometime. 
speaker2: i'm tired of bingo, maybe we should try that drive in of yours.
speaker1: goodnight.
speaker3: vada finishes watching, and goes to bed

speaker1: before the class started, ronda and justin wanted to lead the class in a group meditation. 
speaker2: ooooh that's really cool.
speaker3: okay what we're gonna do is, send our vibes out into the group.
speaker4: everybody hold hands, and close your eyes. relax your muscles and take deep breaths.
speaker3: now, try to feel what the other person is
speaker4: okay, open your eyes. what did everybody feel?
speaker5: i felt mrs. hunsaker's strength.

speaker1: so right on, that's exactly what i sent out, and i felt like, you were full of inner peace and harmony. 
speaker2: vada, what did you feel.
speaker3: i felt justin's hangnail.
speaker4: no vada, that's not what we're looking for, a hangnail is insignificant. what's in my soul, feel my aura.
speaker3: i don't think i'm allowed to.
speaker4: i tell you what, let's try it again, hold hands.
speaker5: grammoo once had a hangnail on her big toe. it got infected and traveled to her vocal chords, it ruined her singing voice, i don't think grammoo thought it was insignificant.

speaker1: lettuce, watch out for the rust when you get lettuce. suddenly shelly appears behind them and calls out 
speaker2: hey, i thought i recognized you two, hi vada.
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: i'm just picking some things up for the barbecue.
speaker2: yeah, me too, mind if i tag along?
speaker1: not at all. lot of potatoes!
speaker2: it's for shelly's famous potato salad.
speaker1: i'm looking forward to that.
speaker1: hey, ouch, it!! vada, watch what you're doing.
speaker3: sorry.
speaker2: you know this is gonna be my first 4th of july picnic in a long time.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: dad, didn't you say you needed prunes real bad?
speaker1: ahh, vada, just put anything you want in the cart, anything at all. i don't know what's gotten into her today.
speaker4: i used to like to play with my ken and barbie dolls, ken was my favorite. then one christmas i got them a camper, and all they wanted to do was hang out in it by themselves. so i wasn't too upset when they took that wrong turn and went over a cliff.

speaker1: harry harry harry harry harry, i told you to use fewer briquettes and now look what you've done. you've cremated them. 
speaker2: that's what i do. do you wanna do it??
speaker1: no, no no....
speaker2: look if you think you know how, why don't you pre-measure the briquettes in little packages, put out a product, support me for a while! phil exits scene, shelly comes up behind harry
speaker3: how's it going chef?
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: are they ready yet?
speaker2: no, sweetie, not yet.
speaker4: when?
speaker2: soon honey, soon. shelly again tries to fix up vada's hair and vada shakes her off again
speaker4: when??
speaker2: in a minute, look it's hot, sweetie you'll burn your nose, look out. vada backs off, followed by shelly

speaker1: rub a dub dub, thanks for the grub, yay 
speaker2: i'll second that.
speaker3: hey shelly, like seafood?
speaker1: uh huh, why?
speaker3: see food!
speaker1: that's attractive.
speaker1: oh excuse me...
speaker4: hey shelly, who lives here? the addams family?
speaker1: danny, what are you doing here?
speaker5: what am i doing here????? what am i doing here?
speaker1: hi ralph. oh danny, how'd you find me here?
speaker5: you told everybody where you were going, i'm here for the motor home. scene shifts to vada, phil and harry for a moment
speaker6: these two people do not have a good relationship.
speaker1: i've been living in it for over a year, the camper is mine.
speaker5: excuse me, mutual asset, that's what the lawyer said, it's supposed to be "our mutual asset", not "shelly's recreational vehicle". gimme the keys.
speaker1: keep your voice down!
speaker5: what?
speaker1: the boss is watching us...
speaker5: i'm impressed.
speaker1: i guess i'll have to introduce you now.
speaker5: yeah, all right...
speaker1: this is harry, phil, grammoo and vada sultenfuss...
speaker5: vada sultenfuss?? tough break.
speaker3: i like my name.
speaker1: this is danny and ralph, they own the dino raphael salon in detroit. we used to be married.
speaker3: are you here to take shelly back?
speaker2: uhh, it's nice to meet ya. uhh, we got burgers and hot dogs here if you'd care to join us?
speaker5: can't stay, i'm just here because my wife.....
speaker1: ex...ex, ex...
speaker5: my __ex__ wife seems to have ripped off my camper.
speaker2: shelly?
speaker1: honestly harry, he got the mustang, i promise.....
speaker5: i don't think so, i got a copy of the property settlement right here. danny pulls out a piece of paper ahh this is my lease...... it, i keep forgetting things, i'm getting senile.
speaker2: danny?

speaker1: okay, i know you've suffered a terrible loss, and there's really nothing anyone can do to comfort you, but i urge you to focus on the times you had with the camper, the trips you took, the sights you saw, those days are gone now, but they'll live on in your heart forever. 
speaker2: this guy bonking you?
speaker3: danny that's a real _bonehead_ thing to say!
speaker1: look, you're not gonna take shelly's camper.
speaker2: oh.. oh.. oh no?? oh?
speaker1: it's her home! it's where she lives!!
speaker2: oh really, okay fine look, go cook, gimme the goddam keys.
speaker3: stop it! that hurts!!
speaker1: danny.....

speaker1: what'd you do that for?? 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i'm his brother.
speaker2: oh then you'll probably be visiting us here quite often.

speaker1: bye ralph. 
speaker1: well, you were pretty great!
speaker2: is it really your camper?
speaker1: can we see it from the back yard?
speaker2: you can get the general idea...
speaker2: yep, there they are... they always look the same every year...
speaker1: pointing upwards look...
speaker2: did you ahh, love him?
speaker1: i would never marry anybody i didn't love.

speaker1: he must like shelly, i never saw him hit anyone in his life. 
speaker2: he likes her.
speaker1: does he love her?
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: do you like her?
speaker2: yes i do, and i think she's very good for your father.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: after your mother died, he was sad all the time, but before that, he was pretty funny.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: now when i see him with shelly, sometimes he seems like the old harry.
speaker1: my dad was funny?
speaker2: well he wasn't one of the marx brothers, but he made me laugh.
speaker3: my uncle fought in the korean war, he had a steel plate put in his head, daddy said he didn't come back the same, one night, he picked up a radio station from oklahoma in his teeth, it was really neat.

speaker1: aaaaaaaaaahhhhh. 
speaker1: carnnk yu sheeee ik??
speaker1: can't you see it?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: it's there.
speaker2: vada there is no chicken bone stuck in your throat.
speaker1: dr. welty, are you sure those are yours?

speaker1: so you fill it with water like this, and what have you got? a water gun. 
speaker2: cool, can i get one for vada?
speaker1: oh yes, yes. she gets another one out of her drawer thomas, let me ask you a question. does vada ever tell you why she comes down here so much?
speaker2: cause she's dying.
speaker1: do you think she is?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why do you think she says that?
speaker2: cause she gets scared of all those dead
speaker1: you know what i think? i think vada's very lucky to have a friend like you. nurse randall hands thomas j another syringe
speaker2: she's my best friend.
speaker1: miss vada, how are you feeling?
speaker3: as good as can be expected.

speaker1: hey vada, guess what we got? 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: suddenly thomas j stops in his tracks 
speaker2: woah!!
speaker3: what?
speaker2: pointing there's a beehive right there!
speaker3: so?
speaker2: stand back.
speaker3: are you crazy, you'll get stung!!
speaker2: you're right, let's knock it down.
speaker3: what do you want it for anyway?
speaker2: for their meat.
speaker2: got it!
speaker3: my mood ring! it fell off! i gotta find it! they begin to search for vada's mood ring
speaker2: they're alive!! run for your life!!!
speaker2: run faster they're after us!!
speaker3: i am running faster!!
speaker2: hurry!!!
speaker3: jump in the water!!
speaker2: but i have my clothes on!
speaker3: do it!

speaker1: vada is that you? 
speaker2: yes..
speaker1: hey guess what? we're going to the carnival tonight, be ready to go in 10 minutes. vada likes this news, she hurries up the stairs
speaker1: shelly's coming with us.

speaker1: so vada, what's your favorite ride? 
speaker2: i like the freak show.
speaker3: i know, i know, let's go on the "sit on the bench and rest" ride.
speaker1: i don't think that that roller coaster agreed with your bad stomach. you know vada you have to watch what you eat here, i remember one time i went to a carnival with my cousins david and frank, and they both ate hot dogs, and the next day they came down with nephritis.
speaker2: nephritis? it's a kidney disease, you don't get it from hot dogs.
speaker1: well, i'm no doctor. all i know is, the next day they had really high fevers, and their faces got very fat. they baffled medical science, they were in a magazine. vada and harry give shelly a "yeah right" look
speaker1: they were!! "popular mechanics", no "popular science". i don't know, popular.

speaker1: oh look they're trying to hit that poor thing. 
speaker2: watch you don't knock out a fish.
speaker1: perfect.
speaker2: i don't know which ball's mine.
speaker3: i won, i won!!!
speaker1: oh great!!
speaker4: hooray, we have a winner, there you go little girl. see how easy it is folks!
speaker1: oh vada, that's a gorgeous goldfish.
speaker3: where'd you get that ring?
speaker3: did you win it?
speaker1: vada we have something to tell you. harry?
speaker2: vada we have some good news, shelly and i are getting married.
speaker3: oh my fish!!!
speaker2: we're having the wedding sometime near the end of the summer.

speaker1: vada? would you like us to get you another goldfish? 
speaker2: no!, he's fine.

speaker1: oh bumper cars, oh you can't go to a carnival and not ride the bumper cars. 
speaker2: i fall asleep at the wheel.
speaker3: i'll ride on the bumper cars with you!
speaker1: oh great vada, come on...
speaker1: uhh, two. i got the blue one!!

speaker1: yes!! 
speaker1: i am gonna get you.
speaker2: vada, keep your hands on the wheel!!
speaker2: careful vada, careful.
speaker2: shelly look out!

speaker1: hi vada. 
speaker2: hi, can thomas j come out?
speaker1: sure, come in.
speaker3: hi vada.
speaker2: hi, wanna ride bikes?
speaker3: sure.
speaker1: ohh, did you make your bed?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: you're sure?
speaker3: it's made.
speaker1: come here, you've got a milk mustache.
speaker3: come on, let's go.
speaker2: bye mrs. sennett.
speaker3: bye ma.
speaker1: have fun kids.

speaker1: i'm running away. 
speaker2: where you running to? they get on their bikes and begin to ride off
speaker1: california, i'm going to hollywood to live with the brady bunch.
speaker2: i wanna live with them too.
speaker1: no, you can't, they have enough kids, you'll have to live with the partridge family.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: thomas j stops and then does vada 
speaker2: that's it.
speaker3: get up!?
speaker2: i'm tired of running away. besides, we past this place two times already. we're not getting nowhere. vada sits down next to thomas j
speaker2: why are you running away?
speaker3: my dad gave shelly a ring.
speaker2: wow, was it a decoder ring?
speaker3: you're such a retard, it was an engagement ring.
speaker2: they're getting married?
speaker2: so now you'll have a mother.
speaker3: i don't like her.
speaker2: i do, she's real funny.
speaker3: he likes her better than me.

speaker1: i'm hungry, i can't last any longer. 
speaker2: then go home, baby.
speaker1: i have to anyway, my mom will be worried.
speaker2: leave then, some friend you are.
speaker1: you can come to my house for dinner?
speaker2: no, i'm hiding out.
speaker1: okay, seeya.

speaker1: daddy!! daddy daddy!!!! daddy!!??!?! 
speaker1: daddy??!?!?!
speaker2: vada, vada, what's the matter?
speaker1: where's daddy?
speaker2: well he just left, what's wrong?
speaker1: i'm hemorrhaging.
speaker2: what do you mean you're hemorrhaging?
speaker1: i don't want, i don't need your help....
speaker2: vada, did this happen in the bathroom?
speaker2: how old are you?
speaker1: i'm eleven and a half.
speaker2: it's okay, come on upstairs, we have to have a little talk. they exit

speaker1: my mommy and daddy did that? 
speaker2: it's actually a very beautiful thing, and look there wouldn't have been a vada.
speaker1: i think it should be outlawed.
speaker2: believe me, some day, you'll feel differently.
speaker1: oh, that's probably thomas j, i don't wanna see him. it's not fair. nothing happens to boys.

speaker1: hi vada, can you come out? 
speaker2: i dunno..
speaker1: please, it's real hot, maybe we can go swimming?

speaker1: grammoo, i'm going to the bathroom, i'll be right back. 
speaker2: it's quarter to three, there's no-one in the place, just you and me.
speaker3: i'm so sorry, it's all right ma, i'm very very sorry.

speaker1: why do you think people want to get married? 
speaker2: well when you get older, you just have to.
speaker1: i'm gonna marry mr. bixler.
speaker2: you can't marry a teacher, it's against the law.
speaker1: it is not.
speaker2: yes it is, cause then he'll give you all a's and it won't be fair.
speaker1: not true.
speaker1: have you ever kissed anyone?
speaker2: like they do on tv?
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: maybe we should, just to see what's the big deal.
speaker2: but, i don't know how.
speaker1: here, practice on your arm like this.
speaker2: like this?
speaker1: uh huh. okay, enough practice.
speaker1: close your eyes.
speaker2: but then i won't be able to see anything. vada raises her fist
speaker1: just do it.
speaker2: okay, okay.
speaker1: okay on the count of three.

speaker1: one. 
speaker1: two.
speaker1: two and a half.
speaker1: three.
speaker1: say something it's too quiet.
speaker2: umm, ummmmm
speaker1: just, hurry.
speaker2: on political agents to the flag of the united states of america, vada stands up and joins in

speaker1: you better not tell anyone. 
speaker2: you better not either.
speaker1: well, let's spit on it.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: seeya tomorrow.
speaker2: okay, seeya. vada?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: would you think of me?
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: well if you don't get to marry mr. bixler. vada smiles, and gets on her bike
speaker1: i guess.

speaker1: yes! 
speaker1: ow, ahh, no!, get away!!!

speaker1: hi vada. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: what are you doing.
speaker2: feeding my fish.
speaker1: is that the fish you won at the carnival?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: he's getting big. vada, come here and sit down for a minute.
speaker1: vada, something happened to thomas j last night, he stepped on a beehive.
speaker2: i told him not to tease those bees. did he get stung?
speaker2: maybe i should go over and yell at him.
speaker1: no sweetheart, you can't.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: he was allergic to bees.
speaker2: he's okay isn't he?
speaker1: there were just too many of 'em.

speaker1: dr. welty!!!? dr. welty?? 
speaker2: vada, what's wrong sweetheart?
speaker1: i can't breathe, i'm suffocating.
speaker2: oh, wait relax now, let me look, let me look, come up here and we'll have a look. dr. welty lifts vada up onto bed
speaker1: it hurts, it hurts so bad, make it stop.
speaker2: what hurts vada?
speaker1: the bee stings! i can't breathe!

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi, is vada home?
speaker1: yes she is, but she's very upset, so she's not seeing anyone.
speaker2: oh, i'm judy, i go to school with her, i wanted to tell her i'm sorry about thomas j.
speaker1: well maybe she'll feel better in a couple of days.
speaker2: will you tell her i came by?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: thank you. bye.
speaker1: bye.

speaker1: hi harry. 
speaker2: ahh, reverand miles.
speaker1: the sennetts want to thank you for taking care of things so quickly.

speaker1: she won't come out. it's been a whole day. you have to do something harry. 
speaker2: the funeral's starting.
speaker1: open your eyes, she's eleven years old! her only friend in the world is dead.
speaker2: i know that, but what do you want from me?
speaker1: stop hiding harry, you run harry. when i
speaker2: yeah, and when those suppers are disrupted because there's a car crash, or there's a fire, or a little boy steps on a beehive.
speaker1: i'm not asking you to stop feeling for those people. but life isn't just death harry, don't ignore the living, especially your daughter. arthur enters
speaker3: excuse me harry, shelly, the minister's about to begin.
speaker2: thank you arthur.

speaker1: ....disciples began to chastise them, and said "let the children come to me, do not hinder them, for the kingdom of belongs to such as these. he laid his hands on their heads before he left that place, let us pray in silence. 
speaker2: wanna go tree climbing thomas j?

speaker1: his face hurts, and where is his glasses? he can't see without his glasses! put his glasses on! put on his glasses! he was gonna be an acrobat. 
speaker2: he's gone sweetheart. he's gone!
speaker1: get away, get away!!

speaker1: vada wait! vada! vada!! 
speaker2: vada! i was just on my way to your house. are you all right? i'm so sorry about thomas j.
speaker2: okay, okay we don't have to talk about him, vada, vada we don't have to talk about him, it's okay. we won't talk about him all right?
speaker3: justin and ronda say that i should tell people what i feel.
speaker2: come here, sit down over here. the two of them sit down on mr. bixler's porch vada is clearly in a lot of pain and she wants it to stop
speaker3: mr. bixler, i love you.
speaker2: oh, vada...
speaker3: i love you like my dad loves shelly. i wanna live here.

speaker1: no he wouldn't, i can't go home. 
speaker2: i'll be ready in a second, i just can't seem to find my other earring....
speaker3: suzanne, this is vada.
speaker2: vada, hi, i'm really sorry.
speaker3: could you just give us a minute?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: who's that?
speaker3: that's suzanne.
speaker1: no....
speaker3: i...i was gonna bring her to class next week. i wanted to hear your poem. oh vada, please honey i cared for him too, vada please! vada, vada sweetheart don't.....
speaker1: get away from me!

speaker1: why do you think people wanna get married? 
speaker2: when you get old, you just have to.
speaker2: who's that with your dad?
speaker1: it's my mother.
speaker2: i'm gonna be an acrobat when i grow up. vada, would you think of me? well if you don't get to marry mr. bixler.
speaker1: now we're blood brothers for life.

speaker1: shelly i'm sorry but we haven't found her yet. 
speaker2: it's dark, she can't be alone in the dark.
speaker1: we'll keep looking.
speaker2: we, no, we've been looking since this
speaker1: i know, i know you told us.
speaker2: but i....
speaker2: vada. are you okay? oh

speaker1: i should have told thomas j that he was my best friend. 
speaker2: i'm sure he knew.
speaker1: shelly, i stole some money from your cookie jar, to pay for the writing class. shelly ponders this for a moment
speaker2: it's okay sweetheart.
speaker1: i'll pay it back, besides, i don't think i'll ever go to class again.
speaker2: i'll tell you what, you dedicate your first book to me, and we'll forget about the whole thing.
speaker1: i will i promise.
speaker2: okay, get in to bed.
speaker2: goodnight.
speaker1: goodnight.

speaker1: did i kill my mother? 
speaker2: what??
speaker1: the bees killed thomas j, and i killed my mother.
speaker2: no, no.
speaker2: no sweetie that wasn't your fault, things like that aren't anybody's fault, it just happened.
speaker1: i found this.
speaker2: i forgot about that picture, where did you find it?
speaker1: in the garage.
speaker2: ahh, that little chevy was your mothers favorite car.
speaker1: what was my mama like?
speaker2: she was pretty, and kind, she had your eyes. oh boy did she love to laugh. sometimes when you laugh, you sound just like her.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: uh huh. you know what your mother did when she found out she was gonna have you? she came home and painted this whole room pink. she was so sure she was gonna have a little girl.
speaker1: do you miss her?
speaker2: yes, i did, very much for a long time, and even now, i get a little sad when i think of a pretty flower or a sunset that your mother would have liked.
speaker1: i think every time i see a climbing tree i'll think of thomas j.
speaker2: that's good, memories are good sweetheart. vada, i'm sorry; i was trying to keep it from you, i just couldn't. you're a good girl, and i want you to be happy; don't be an old grump like me. seeya in the morning. harry begins to leave room
speaker1: daddy, it's not so bad to be like you.

speaker1: mrs. sennett, how are you doing? 
speaker2: some days i think i'll be okay, others, well i have to force myself even to get out of bed, i know it's crazy, but sometimes i think he's just away at summer camp. how's vada?
speaker1: oh she's doing much better. ahh she's just inside.

speaker1: mrs. sennett. 
speaker2: vada. i've been wanting to come over to see you, thomas j had this on him, i thought you might like to have it.
speaker1: i will, i promise.
speaker1: mrs. sennett. thomas j will be all right, my mother will take care of him.
speaker2: thank you vada.

speaker1: what exactly do you mean by that? 
speaker2: i mean, be dangerous and unpredictable. and make a lot of noise.
speaker2: vada.
speaker1: hey, we missed you man! gimme a hug!
speaker2: i was hoping you'd stop by today.
speaker3: i can't stay, i just came to read my poem.
speaker2: we'd love to hear it.
speaker3: weeping willow with your tears running down, why do you always weep and frown, is it because he left you one day, is it because he could not stay, on your branches he would swing, do you long for the happiness that they would bring, he found shelter in your shade, he thought his laughter would never fade, weeping willow stop your tears, there is something to calm your fears, you think death as if you forever part, but i know he'll always be in your heart. there is a long pause as it sinks in, everybody remains

speaker1: hi judy. 
speaker2: hi vada.
speaker3: things are a little better these days; i finally swallowed that chicken bone, judy and i are gonna be in the same home room and the republican party just re-nominated mr. nixon.

