speaker1: i think my best was when i turned twelve. my dad set up a treasure hunt. it was really cool. well, it was. 
speaker2: this blows.
speaker1: my most awful birthday was sweet sixteen. i had mono. how about you? what was your worst?
speaker2: you kidding? you think i could've possibly had a birthday worse than this? what kind of loser do you think i am?
speaker3: don't answer that, phil.
speaker3: hank says he's gonna open another gate. we're gonna get another rise.
speaker4: gentlemen. hey -- happy birthday, wayne.
speaker4: mike, i gotta say, what you're doing... i don't know if i'd be here, considering.
speaker3: well, you would be if you wanted to get the last couple of paychecks some owed you.
speaker4: i just want you to know i think the people 'round here made a big mistake.
speaker1: "the people"? you're the one who screwed him.
speaker4: sorry, phil?
speaker1: i, uh --
speaker3: you know, bob, as much as i'd love to stand here all day talking about how great i am, if you don't get moving i'm gonna have to haul your sorry off to jail.
speaker4: okay, okay, i'm going. keep up the good work, boys. it's appreciated.
speaker2: whaddya say we go torch the fucker's house and blame it on looters. or how about we put a dead cow in his living room. he comes back after it's been in the water a couple of days. hello!
speaker3: you wanna know how to get the best revenge on the mayor and his boys? you do exactly what we're doing. you protect the town. you protect it better than they would. better than they ever could.
speaker2: i think the dead cow's better.
speaker3: any looter that comes in here is in for a big surprise, cause as long as i'm still wearing this pointy thing... ...nobody's taking anything from this town.

speaker1: washes up on wellman. 
speaker2: do you think you could go a little faster, pal?
speaker3: i -- i'm going as fast as i can.

speaker1: well, it's not fast enough. 
speaker2: is held by one of the men, pointed at the floor.

speaker1: that it? 
speaker2: yes. we don't keep any of our --

speaker1: runs up, stopping in the open door. 
speaker1: hey, wait!

speaker1: okay. 
speaker1: for christsakes!
speaker2: it's a flood, charlie. you're gonna get wet.
speaker1: hey! do you know what kind of is in that water?
speaker2: well, yeah.

speaker1: dispatch, this is 31. 
speaker2: go ahead, 31.
speaker1: we're leaving huntingburg. we'll be back in an hour.
speaker2: ten-four. get out of there.
speaker1: we're gone. over and out.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: your ear.
speaker1: what about my ear?
speaker3: you've got a major hair growth going on.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker3: i'm serious. you're gonna need somebody to go in there with a weed whacker.
speaker1: here.
speaker3: you're offering me one of your donuts? i don't know what to say. i'm getting all misty.
speaker1: if it'll shut your mouth you can have the whole bag.
speaker3: nah. i start eating donuts and i'll never get out of this truck.
speaker1: i love how you think you're better than this.
speaker3: don't get me wrong, charlie. there's a lot to like about this job -- and i don't just mean the dashing polyester ensemble and the solid three-figure income.
speaker1: you ungrateful i don't believe you!
speaker3: charlie, relax! i was kidding!
speaker1: you don't wanna do this? fine. go back to selling hot construction machinery. that's a helluva career.
speaker3: it had better hours. charlie slams the clipboard down on the seat.
speaker1: you think this is a joke? this is funny? christ! you know how lucky you are you could get in here? thirty years old and all the you pulled and you never got caught?
speaker3: that wasn't luck, old man. that was skill. i was good at it.
speaker1: oh, yeah, it takes a lot of skill to fence bulldozers. that's genius time.
speaker3: about as much skill as it takes to sit in a truck and get fat eating donuts.
speaker1: oh, so that's all i've been doing, huh? just wasting my life away.
speaker3: i didn't say that.
speaker1: yeah, building a home, raising a family -- that's just stupid.
speaker3: i didn't say that!
speaker1: you know what, tom? i really don't give a what you said.

speaker1: "thus saith the lord; behold, waters shall rise up out of the north and be an overflowing flood and all the inhabitants of the land shall howl." jeremiah 47:2. 
speaker2: you're gonna be able to buy a helluva lot of bibles, huh, ray? me? first thing i'm gonna do is get my brother a lawyer. best that money can buy.
speaker1: what's he facing?
speaker2: thirty in.
speaker1: he cap a cop or something...?
speaker2: security guard. "in the commission..." all he's got is a piece of p.d. now i'm gonna be able to afford him a good lawyer -- a guy with a haircut.
speaker3: 'scuse me a second. take a look at thirty-one across.
speaker2: jim. i don't do crossword puzzles.
speaker4: i'll take a look, jim.
speaker3: kenny can read. just look at it. you know when you write down a word and suddenly it looks all wrong? maybe it's right, but it doesn't look right?
speaker3: thirty-one across. kenny shrugs and looks down at the newspaper.
speaker2: mention money again and...

speaker1: did i get it right? 
speaker2: yeah, jim. you got it right.

speaker1: jerk. 
speaker2: jack-ass.
speaker1: give us a kiss. come on.
speaker2: get out of here.
speaker1: you really are a cranky old fart, you know that?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: what was that about? i mean, i'm just sitting here and all of a sudden you go postal on me.
speaker2: i don't know, i... it's just this weather. i... i want to get back.
speaker1: you know, i really do appreciate what you've done for me. this is a good job.
speaker2: no, it's not. it stinks. it's putting your life on the line for someone else's money.

speaker1: it's there. somewhere. i hope. look, tom, i don't care what it is you end up doing. 
speaker2: oh, here we go again.
speaker1: this is the last time, i swear.

speaker1: i just think, whatever it is you do, it's time you did some heavy lifting. 
speaker2: stop!
speaker1: no, you gotta hear this. you're better than --
speaker2: stop the truck! we're going down!

speaker1: goddammit! 
speaker2: it's a little dip in the road or something. you can see the reflectors come up the other side.
speaker1: i knew this would happen.
speaker2: i'll see if there's anyone coming. maybe we can get pulled out.
speaker1: dispatch, this is 31. 31 calling dispatch.
speaker3: 31, this is dispatch.
speaker1: dispatch, we're stuck outside of huntingburg. truck's dead.
speaker3: where are you?
speaker1: we're on 231, headed for the interstate. right by a sign saying "welcome to huntingburg." tom climbs out and up on top of the truck.

speaker1: the town's been evacuated. we won't get any help from there. 
speaker2: dispatch can't get anyone out.
speaker1: they are aware we're carrying a shitload of money...?
speaker2: they called the national guard. they're gonna be here in about ninety minutes.
speaker1: ninety minutes?
speaker2: dispatch, we're gonna need help a little sooner than --
speaker1: oh,

speaker1: henry, i saw you. come on out. 
speaker1: henry, i'm not leaving until you come out.
speaker2: late 70s, step out onto their porch.
speaker3: h. christ, henry, i told you to stay away from the window.
speaker4: gets out of the car.
speaker1: what are you still doing here?
speaker5: we're just --
speaker3: we're setting traps.
speaker1: that's illegal, doreen.
speaker3: you gonna arrest us, sheriff? hell, are you even sheriff anymore, sheriff? didn't you lose an election? i sure as know i didn't vote for you, and neither did henry.
speaker5: doreen...
speaker1: you don't need to set traps.
speaker3: that's what they said in '73. when we got back, anything the didn't steal they broke, just for the of it.
speaker1: that's not happening this time.
speaker3: right it's not.
speaker1: you can't stay, you know that.
speaker5: we're going to my sister's.
speaker1: good.
speaker3: soon as we finish setting the traps.

speaker1: we gotta get out of here. 
speaker2: what about the money?
speaker1: the money's safe; we're not. water rose about a foot in the last twenty minutes. the national guard isn't going to be here for another hour. you do the math.

speaker1: hello! 
speaker2: you okay? you stuck?
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: we'll see if we can get you out! we'll be right over!
speaker1: looks like we might just --
speaker3: headlights go on high beam.
speaker4: squint, blinded by the high beams.
speaker5: why'd they do that?
speaker1: probably so they can see better.
speaker5: or so we can't see at all.
speaker6: all holding guns. he speaks to them quietly.
speaker7: this is my retirement fund, boys, and if any one of you screws up, i swear to i'll kill you. let's go.
speaker8: tom squints through the bright light.
speaker1: company dispatch and the national guard are the only ones who know we're here.
speaker5: anyone with a scanner from radio shack could've intercepted your call, charlie.
speaker1: 
speaker5: could you turn down your lights?!
speaker7: we're bringing a rope!
speaker5: turn down your lights!
speaker7: we'll be right there!

speaker1: take it easy, tom. 
speaker2: stiffens.
speaker3: squeezes the trigger of his rifle.
speaker4: jumps at the sound of the rifle crack.
speaker1: is knocked back.
speaker4: yanks out his gun and starts shooting back.
speaker5: duck down in the water.
speaker4: shooting blindly, looks over and sees...

speaker1: doesn't hear jim and keeps firing. 
speaker2: aims his pistol at kenny's head.
speaker2: stop.

speaker1: i'm sorry, tom. 
speaker2: jim glares at kenny, his eyes on fire.
speaker3: he was going for his gun!
speaker4: he wasn't gonna shoot, kenny. goddamnit! we just want the money! get away and we won't have to kill you!
speaker5: shuts his eyes, thinking, scared.
speaker4: now!
speaker1: floating in the water.
speaker5: what the is he going to do?

speaker1: you got thirty seconds to get the away! 
speaker1: the clock's running! go!

speaker1: tom is gone. 
speaker2: is floating in the water, eyes of glass.

speaker1: ah, your dad'd be real proud of you, kenny. 
speaker2: he was going for his gun!
speaker1: mr. mehlor, i believe we're gonna need your science project.
speaker3: "i shall bring floodwaters upon the earth to destroy all that lives under the heavens and every creature that has the breath of life in it shall perish." genesis 6:17.
speaker2: were you a preacher or something?
speaker4: ray did five years in the hole at joliet. the only thing you get to read in the hole is the bible.
speaker2: you got religion?
speaker3: obviously.

speaker1: when you hit the switch you've got thirty seconds. 
speaker2: you teach your students how to make things like that?
speaker1: you been to a high school recently, ray? my students taught me how to make things like that. ready?
speaker3: hold on.

speaker1: shut up. everyone. 
speaker2: now why'd he have to go and do a thing like that?
speaker1: to stay alive. he thinks we'll kill him -- unless he knows where the money is and we don't.
speaker3: there is another possibility. he's thinking of keeping it for himself.
speaker1: there's always that. either way, we got ourselves a sharp one.
speaker4: what do we do?
speaker1: pretty soon the water'll be too deep for him to run. but for us it'll be just deep enough.
speaker4: deep enough for what?

speaker1: here we go. 
speaker2: what about this monster?
speaker1: this is all we need.
speaker3: jim, we're stealing. can't we take anything we want?
speaker1: the water isn't very deep yet. we need something with a low draft. mr. mehlor -- find us some gasoline.

speaker1: no sign of tom. 
speaker2: cut your engines!

speaker1: mr. mehlor? 
speaker2: reaches into his pack.

speaker1: shoots over him. 
speaker2: ride the jet-skis into the flooded school.

speaker1: surfaces, gasping. 
speaker2: hears the gasp, turns, grinning.
speaker2: enemy sub off the port bow!

speaker1: full steam ahead! 
speaker2: hits something underwater and stops.

speaker1: stands up -- he was kneeling. 
speaker1: low tide, sailor.

speaker1: ray motors down the hallway toward the corner. 
speaker2: kenny?

speaker1: see him? 
speaker2: wearing kenny's hat and jacket.
speaker1: gives chase.

speaker1: looks back. 
speaker2: is on his tail.

speaker1: yee-hah! 
speaker2: fires, misses and is knocked to the side as...

speaker1: nice driving, buttwipe! 
speaker2: i'm glad you're enjoying this, kenny, but if he's dead, how do we find the money?
speaker3: oh, he's still alive.
speaker4: tom used his tie to wrap the throttle open.

speaker1: jim scans the horizon; sees nothing. 
speaker2: ray, i'm in need of a little inspiration.
speaker3: "with a raging flood he makes an end of those who oppose him, and pursues his enemies into darkness." from one of the more obscure --
speaker4: sorry to interrupt bible study and all, but has no one but me noticed how completely screwed we are? we should be back in the motel room, counting out the money. instead --
speaker2: no one likes this particular turn of events, kenny, but we have a choice -- we can can either deal with it or we can walk away. there's a lot of money out there, so i choose to deal with it. if you want to go, that's fine -- start swimming. you want to stay, that's fine, too -- just stop your whining.
speaker4: what the hell's his problem? all the money in the world ain't worth a nickel if you get caught. it's not like there won't be other jobs.
speaker3: you may have more of these in you, kenny, but jim doesn't.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: 30, pretty, even in head-to-toe rain gear.
speaker2: i was setting up pumps.
speaker3: i sure as don't get what you see in that church.
speaker2: i wouldn't expect you to, wayne.
speaker3: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: karen, did you think the order was for everyone but you to evacuate?
speaker2: i was gonna go as soon as i filled the pumps, but the next thing i know, i've got a looter on my hands. now, maybe i'm crazy, but i was expecting a little gratitude?
speaker4: i think it's great what you did.
speaker3: that's it, phil. that'll finally get you into her pants.
speaker4: shut up.
speaker1: what if he'd had a gun, karen? a lot of these looters carry guns.
speaker5: i'm not a looter.

speaker1: jim, it could be anywhere. it might not even be in the school. 
speaker2: keep looking.

speaker1: what were you doing at the church? 
speaker2: i told you -- he was looting it.
speaker3: i just said i'm not a looter! you're the one who nailed me? you got a better arm than my ex-wife. what the did you hit me with -- a statue? i saw a flash of some guy coming at me.
speaker2: it was a crucifix. it was the only thing there!
speaker3: oh, great. now i'm gonna have people coming from around the world to see the face of on my forehead.
speaker4: look, son, what were you doing in the church?
speaker3: looking for a place to hide out.
speaker1: from who -- swamp thing?
speaker3: the who killed my partner.
speaker3: we were driving an armored truck. the truck got stuck out past the high school. they must've picked up our call to dispatch, 'cause they knew where we were. charlie and i were just standing there and all broke loose.
speaker4: how much money did you have?
speaker3: a little over three million.
speaker3: the bank was afraid of looters. they had us cleaning out their branches up and down the river.
speaker1: they stole three million dollars?
speaker4: no, i don't think so.
speaker4: you took the money, didn't you.
speaker3: i hid it in the cemetery. tied it to a crypt for a guy named portman.
speaker1: what the hell'd you do that for?
speaker3: i don't like to carry around that much cash.
speaker4: wayne, use your head. if he hadn't hidden it, they woulda killed him, too.
speaker4: you got any id?
speaker3: no, it was in my jacket and i --
speaker1: color me surprised.
speaker4: get out two rifles and a shotgun.
speaker1: you believe him?
speaker4: well, yes, wayne, i do. and even if i didn't, i'd say we sure as had an obligation to check it out, don't you think?
speaker3: i'll go with you. i can show you where --
speaker4: no, i think you better stay put. but that was --
speaker1: yeah, all we need is an armored car guy helping us out.
speaker1: ow!
speaker4: wayne, what's the worst that's ever happened to you? when old mrs. dugan went after you with a knife? this guy just got shot at! smart move with the money.
speaker4: wayne and i'll check out the cemetery. you slugger... ...out of town. get her to some high ground, then come on back.
speaker2: i have to fill the pumps --
speaker4: not any more you don't.
speaker4: wayne...
speaker1: he could still be lying!
speaker3: sheriff -- they killed my partner without any warning.
speaker4: and they're gonna regret that, i guarantee you. they're gonna regret coming anywhere near this town tonight. and out he goes.

speaker1: phil, take karen's boat. 
speaker2: you can do it, phil. the men of huntingburg are counting on you.
speaker3: just bite me.

speaker1: did you see the stained glass windows, phil? did you see what a good job they did? i can't let anything happen to the church, not after all i've put into it. 
speaker2: karen, you know i'd do anything for you, but the sheriff told me to get you out of town. i'm sorry. it's for your own good.
speaker2: what're you doing?
speaker1: if you're not going to take me back to the church, then i'll swim.
speaker2: no. hey, hold on.
speaker1: what am i saying?
speaker1: this is my boat. you swim.

speaker1: bobbing in the rising water. he misses the keys. 
speaker2: tom tries again. the belt lands on the desk top.

speaker1: the tag is emblazoned with the ford logo. 
speaker2: great! i can drive out of here!
speaker3: rising very fast. a foot in ten seconds.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: i owed you -- for hitting you and all. but we're even now, okay?
speaker1: even. what happened?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: maybe another levee broke upriver. they've been -- just then...

speaker1: tell them where the money is. 
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: well, i can.
speaker2: if they know where the money is, they will kill us.

speaker1: so what do we do? 
speaker2: i guess just drive around until we run out of gas.
speaker1: look, i've spent the last eight months of my life restoring that church, and i just left it to come save your ass, so spare me, okay?
speaker2: when we get down here a little further we'll find a place for you to hide. i'm gonna get back to the truck and wait for the national guard. they should be there pretty soon.
speaker2: cold?
speaker1: no, i'm fine. the heater just kicked in.

speaker1: is he dead? 
speaker2: coasting up in their boats.
speaker3: no. someone got him out.
speaker1: who?
speaker3: maybe karen.
speaker4: karen? how could she get him out? you took her out of town.
speaker3: i -- it --
speaker1: let's hear it, phil.
speaker3: it happened real fast, okay?
speaker5: you ever been robbed before?
speaker6: no. the scariest thing that ever happened before was charlie running out of donuts. i've only been doing this for a couple months.
speaker5: oh.
speaker5: what'd you do before this?
speaker6: i, uh... i sold construction machinery. i was making good money, it just... i don't know. it just didn't seem right for me anymore.
speaker5: how'd you end up in this?
speaker6: my uncle did me a favor; got me in.
speaker5: nice favor. how's he gonna feel after tonight?
speaker6: my uncle was charlie -- my partner in the truck.
speaker5: oh, i'm sorry.
speaker4: she know karate or something, phil? maybe kung fu? i mean, i can't see how else she could overpower the likes of you.
speaker3: shut up, wayne.
speaker1: shut up, both of you. let's go find karen; see if she's got him.

speaker1: i wonder whose car this is. 
speaker2: well, whoever it is, he listens to pat benatar, eddie money and the soundtrack to "footloose."
speaker1: really? hold on... ...i think this is my car from high school.
speaker3: gets caught on something and stops.
speaker1: looks like we get out here. come on -- i told your father i'd have you home by ten.
speaker4: down the street explodes.
speaker5: hear a sparking sound and look over to see...

speaker1: look around -- what to do? tom points. 
speaker2: there!

speaker1: swimming as hard as they can. 
speaker2: one inch from the water...

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it's metal!

speaker1: the sizzling is getting louder. 
speaker2: we have to --!

speaker1: grabs onto... 
speaker2: and starts pulling himself out of the water.
speaker3: explodes.
speaker1: feels pretty pleased with himself until...
speaker2: starts dancing with electricity and...

speaker1: look away. 
speaker2: dead fish start floating to the surface.

speaker1: christ! 
speaker2: snaps into view, pointing right at tom's head.
speaker3: you so much as breathe funny and your head is going back out that window without you.

speaker1: jim! over there! 
speaker2: floating in the water. and not far from it is...
speaker3: still twitching.
speaker4: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: real slow now. like you were in a big jar of molasses. that's it. 
speaker2: doreen? you haven't killed anybody, have you?
speaker1: i've got everything under control, henry. you go back up.
speaker3: doreen, you caught a whole gang.

speaker1: it hurts! 
speaker2: you're gonna be okay, ken. mr. mehlor knows these things and he thinks you're gonna be okay.
speaker1: it hurts!
speaker2: don't you, mr. mehlor? don't you think kenny's gonna be okay?
speaker3: yeah, kenny. you're gonna be fine.
speaker1: i can't stop shivering.
speaker1: i know you didn't want me to come.
speaker2: you kidding? we couldn't've done anything without you.
speaker1: my dad'd sure be off, huh?
speaker2: your dad'd just want you to lay still while we got you some help.
speaker1: hey -- hey the pain's goin'. oh, man.
speaker1: when you said i was gonna be okay, i thought you were just shittin' me.
speaker2: see? you gotta trust me.

speaker1: well, isn't that just wonderful! now these are gonna want to kill us, too! why the did you have to come to this house? 
speaker2: we thought it was empty.
speaker1: you know what? the house next door is empty. so whaddya say we go back downstairs and you two keep moving?
speaker3: we are not going to send these people out to the wolves.
speaker1: oh, we're not, are we? then what's your plan, general schwartzkopf?
speaker3: i -- i just don't think --
speaker4: it's okay. i have to go anyway.
speaker4: the national guard'll be at the truck in about fifteen minutes. i'm gonna go wait for them.
speaker1: you can't swim that far in fifteen minutes.
speaker3: he could take our boat.
speaker1: henry!
speaker3: i'll go get it ready for you.
speaker1: henry, he is not taking our boat.
speaker1: here. you want a tv too? how about some china? maybe our silver? henry! henry, you leave the boat where it is!
speaker4: karen? i'm tom.
speaker2: watch yourself, tom. i really don't wanna have to save your life again.

speaker1: you give away our only boat in the middle of a flood. you are a genius, henry. a genius. 
speaker2: you wanna come with me?
speaker1: henry, what are you waiting for -- a kiss goodbye? get back in here.

speaker1: why don't we just get him? 
speaker2: if our resourceful young friend hears us coming, he'll electrocute us or sink us or one of you'll shoot him. besides... ...i know where he's going. what i'd like to know is where he came from.

speaker1: come out of the front doors of the church. 
speaker2: they're not here.

speaker1: son, before you go underwater and do something tricky, there's something i'd like you to see! 
speaker2: standing in the ski-boat, blinking in the light.
speaker3: slumps.
speaker1: now, i know it's your job to protect that money, and maybe you'd even be foolish enough to give your life for it. the question is, are you willing to give their lives for it?
speaker1: drop the gun and get into the boat.

speaker1: i'll take you to the money, but you gotta let them go. 
speaker2: i hope you're proud of yourself, henry sears.
speaker3: shh.
speaker4: i think it'd be best if --
speaker2: i told you not to give him the boat.
speaker3: doreen, please.
speaker4: i think it'd be best if we all stayed together.
speaker1: you say all you want is the money? prove it. let them go.
speaker4: i don't know if that's --
speaker2: we could be safe in our home instead of out here in a boat with these low- life scumbags!
speaker4: let 'em go.

speaker1: karen? 
speaker2: in the attic. they never saw her.

speaker1: as henry rows them off into the darkness. 
speaker2: faster, henry! the might change their minds! stop lily- dipping and move it!
speaker2: what're you doing?
speaker3: i'm gonna row back there and see if he'll shoot you. or me. fine either way.
speaker2: henry...?
speaker3: do you want me to get us out of here?
speaker2: yes, of course, i --
speaker3: then shut the up.

speaker1: i wonder where they think they're going. 
speaker2: what the hell's going on?
speaker3: this happened in a flood in georgia. the ground gets soggy, and the caskets are air-tight -- anyone who hasn't been planted too long just pops up.
speaker2: you teach your students stuff like that? no wonder they kicked you out.
speaker3: i didn't teach my students anything at all.
speaker1: where is it?
speaker4: it's hard to tell now with the water so deep.
speaker4: it's down there a little further.
speaker4: takes a quick look at his watch.
speaker1: sees tom looking at his watch.

speaker1: tom went off in their rowboat. 
speaker2: it's tom now. looks like you lost out, pal.
speaker3: where was he going?
speaker1: back to the armored truck.
speaker4: here?
speaker5: uh... no. a little farther --
speaker4: they're not coming, son.
speaker5: what?
speaker4: the national guard. they're not coming.
speaker5: i don't --
speaker4: i know you've been trying to stall until they show up, but they're not coming.
speaker5: oh, you intercepted charlie's call, then you called them off.
speaker4: no, son, i didn't call them off. they never were coming. we didn't "intercept" charlie's call. he called us direct.
speaker6: i'd love to help you, sheriff, but i can't leave! if the water goes over the top again it's bye-bye, dam! bye- bye, town! in fact, i could use a little help up here myself.

speaker1: hey, i was the one who got the to come out. 
speaker2: right. and before you went in, i deputized you, you son-of-a- so when i say get down here, it's not a request, it's an order. so get down here! now! i won't need you for long. and bring your gun.

speaker1: we were gonna hit you just before you got on the interstate, but then you got stuck so we had to change our plans and take you -- 
speaker2: this is all
speaker1: i knew charlie when we were both working construction for the johnstown company. his middle name was mccarthy because his parents loved charlie mccarthy on the radio. his wife's name was mary. she died of a heart- attack last year. he has a daughter and a son, both grown with children of their own. i'm afraid i don't know the names of the grandchildren.
speaker1: what else do i know...? oh, yes. i know uncle charlie was trying to steer his favorite nephew away from a life of crime.
speaker2: why'd you shoot him? kill charlie and you get to keep another share?
speaker1: no, that was an accident. ken shot him. i never told him charlie was on my side. ken liked to talk. he shouldn't've been here. but his dad asked me to watch over him. i guess i didn't do the best job.
speaker3: excuse me, jim. i hate to interrupt and all, but could we just get the money and get the out of here?
speaker1: i'm gonna ask you one more time. and before you think of bullshitting me again, keep in mind i have had a very frustrating night. and while i know i'll never get the money if i kill you, it's getting to the point where i just don't care.
speaker2: i'll tell you where it is. but it's not going to do you any good.
speaker2: the guard may not be coming, but someone else sure as is.

speaker1: there. 
speaker2: well, go get it.
speaker3: "at night we'd go down to the river and into the river we'd dive." springsteen, "the river." i'm all out of bible quotes.
speaker4: tom shines his light on...

speaker1: it's gone. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: looks like somebody beat you to it.
speaker3: oh for christs -- i'm gonna shoot him, jim.
speaker4: ripping into the ski-boat, water, trees, crypt.

speaker1: ducks underwater. 
speaker2: pulls his pistol, returns fire.

speaker1: stop! you'll hit tom! 
speaker2: hold your fire!

speaker1: a look passes between them. 
speaker2: now, sir, i can imagine you'd love nothing more than to shoot me, but i caution you -- in order to do that, you're gonna have to shoot through young tom here.
speaker3: thinks for a second, then shrugs.
speaker4: okay.
speaker5: realizes what is about to happen.
speaker6: also clue in, but before they can move...
speaker3: squeezes the trigger as...
speaker5: hits the gun with her arm.
speaker7: fires.
speaker8: is grazed in the arm by the bullet.

speaker1: throw themselves back off the crypt as... 
speaker2: empty their guns in their direction.

speaker1: well, that was unexpected. 
speaker2: is he the one you thought was coming to your rescue?
speaker3: the sheriff and wayne reload.
speaker4: anyone mind telling me what the is going on?

speaker1: hey, hank. that money i told you about? from the armored car? we're gonna keep it. three million dollars. four ways. seven fifty apiece. you okay with that? 
speaker1: hank? you okay with that?
speaker2: seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars? straight i'm okay with that.
speaker3: don't see what we needed him for.
speaker1: then i guess you've never been hunting with hank. we got two behind that crypt. get 'em.
speaker4: maybe i'm not okay with it.
speaker1: come on now, phil.
speaker4: you're gonna kill people?
speaker1: they're looters, phil! they come and steal from an armored truck in our town -- they're looters.
speaker4: what about tom? what about karen? they're not looters.
speaker1: no, they're witnesses.

speaker1: motor into view. 
speaker2: opens fire.
speaker1: shoots back.
speaker3: flattens against the crypt, then turns to see...
speaker4: coming into view on the other side.

speaker1: shooting back at wayne with ray's gun. 
speaker2: pulls back out of the line of fire.
speaker3: curses and pulls back, too.
speaker4: exchange a look.

speaker1: how can you do this? 
speaker2: jeez, phil, i always thought wayne was the stupid one. read my lips. three million dollars. look at it!
speaker2: a couple of those bags are gonna be yours, phil.
speaker1: but -- but -- you're the sheriff!
speaker2: i'm the what?

speaker1: for twenty years you've been -- 
speaker2: for twenty years i've been eating breakfast, lunch and dinner. well, tonight i'm changing the menu! from now on everything i eat is gonna be shit-free!

speaker1: come around on both sides. 
speaker2: starts shooting at them with the two pistols.
speaker1: pull back. as they go...
speaker2: sees...
speaker3: draped over the side of wayne's boat.

speaker1: can i make it any clearer, phil? do you want me to draw pictures? 
speaker2: i can't let you do it.
speaker1: oh for -- okay, phil. but here's how it's gonna go. i'm gonna hear one of two things out of you. either i'm gonna hear you say you're in with us, or... ...i'm gonna hear a bullet come out of that gun and go into me.
speaker1: seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars or... ...you kill me. your choice.
speaker1: there we go.

speaker1: and it starts sinking in the water. 
speaker2: tom sees...
speaker3: haul himself into the ski-boat.
speaker4: in the boat!
speaker5: start shooting at jim in the ski-boat.

speaker1: explodes and... 
speaker2: erupts in a huge geyser.

speaker1: fires up his engine. 
speaker2: is almost to the boat.

speaker1: rams into one cross. 
speaker2: start to slip from the boat.

speaker1: you really want that money? 
speaker1: 'cause the only way you're ever gonna see it is if you help me get karen.

speaker1: we're too slow. 
speaker2: here.
speaker3: lifeless and limp.

speaker1: flying over the water. 
speaker2: they see a body tumble out of the ski-boat.
speaker3: jim looks back, following kenny with his eyes.

speaker1: come around the corner, two hundred yards back. 
speaker2: they're not going to catch us now.

speaker1: are thrown forward. 
speaker2: slams head-first into the dash.
speaker3: the propeller has stopped.
speaker4: looks back to see that...
speaker5: has almost been ripped from its moorings.
speaker4: okay, so maybe they are gonna catch us now.

speaker1: is wobbling, vibrating. 
speaker2: keeps up his stream of gunfire.

speaker1: that hurt? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: then go get some bottles. 
speaker2: wait -- what about the dam?
speaker1: it'll be fine.
speaker2: you said if it goes it'll wipe out the town.
speaker1: the town.

speaker1: does he have the girl? 
speaker2: she's in the small boat.
speaker2: i'm gonna get hepatitis.
speaker1: hepatitis, hell. you probably already got cholera.
speaker1: what're you doing?
speaker2: there's a back room. maybe they've got something i can use on this.
speaker1: you been in here before?
speaker2: oh, yeah.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: i saw

speaker1: so, has this all gone pretty much how you thought it would? 
speaker2: everything would have gone fine if you'd've just walked away from the truck.
speaker1: oh, yeah? well, everything would've gone even better if you hadn't decided to rob the truck in the first place!
speaker1: did charlie have cancer or something?
speaker2: you mean why was he doing this? no cancer. didn't you ever think about taking the money?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: come now. a man who used to make his living fencing hot jackhammers never thought about what he'd do with three million dollars?
speaker1: sorry to disappoint you. what are you gonna do with it?
speaker2: as little as possible.
speaker1: belize.
speaker1: it's this small country in central america, on the atlantic side.
speaker2: i know where belize is. what about it?
speaker1: they speak english and the dollar goes a long way. beautiful beaches; friendly people. and they've got liberal banking laws. very liberal.
speaker2: no, you didn't think about taking that money at all.
speaker1: you can't ride in the truck and not think about it.
speaker2: i'm sure. and i guess that's pretty much how it started with charlie.

speaker1: what're you doing? 
speaker2: we got too many bodies with bullets in 'em. i'm gonna put her in her house, make it look like she fell down the stairs and drowned.
speaker3: don't you touch her!
speaker2: saving her life... hmm... you know, that might have actually gotten you laid.
speaker1: oh, for christsakes, just dump her here.
speaker2: we got a few minutes before hank gets back.
speaker1: just dump her here!
speaker1: wayne! goddamnit, we've gotta get them outta there! wayne!
speaker4: where's he going?
speaker5: where's wayne going?
speaker1: on a date. you all set?
speaker5: yeah, but --
speaker1: then let's go.
speaker5: aren't we gonna wait for wayne?
speaker1: we can get started without him, the he won't be long. besides, we got phil. phil's gonna earn his money on this, aren't you phil?

speaker1: what -- you're gonna swim after her? 
speaker1: you ain't gonna help her by getting shot. he's gone and you don't know where.
speaker2: the sheriff knows. i think maybe i'll go ask him.
speaker1: you'll be dead before you get over the sandbags. look, he'll be coming for us. you can ask him then.
speaker2: what if he doesn't come?
speaker1: i wouldn't worry about that.

speaker1: wakey-wakey. 
speaker1: dear penthouse: i always thought your letters were fake, until the wildest thing happened to me. i'm a policeman in a small town. in the middle of the big flood last year, i was patrolling the streets in a boat, feeling kind of sorry for myself -- 'cause it was my birthday and all -- when i saw the front door to a house was open. i pulled my gun -- afraid it might be looters. imagine my surprise when, instead of a looter, i find a young woman handcuffed to the railing of her stairs. her name was karen, and ever since she came back from college she'd made it clear she was too good for any of us local folk. now here she was, in handcuffs! i said, "what the heck is going on here, ma'am?" and she said...
speaker1: and she said...
speaker2: sorry, wayne, but i'm not playing a part in your sick little play. wayne pulls his gun, puts it to karen's head.
speaker1: you're perfect for the role. i suggest you reconsider.
speaker2: or what? you'll kill me? you're gonna do that anyway.
speaker1: i might get clumsy. it might take a while.
speaker2: i'm sure you can hurt me. but it's all going to be the same when i'm dead.
speaker1: and she said, "happy birthday, wayne. i've got something for you." well, i'm not stupid. i knew what she wanted to give me and i knew she wanted to give it bad, so i --
speaker3: sparks and goes out.
speaker1: that won't do. man's gotta see what he's doing. 'scuse me.

speaker1: i got the candles. all's we need is a cake. 
speaker1: mood lighting. you in the mood yet? and then she said, "my present's ready and waiting. all's you gotta do is unwrap it."
speaker1: it was cold and rainy that birthday night, and all i wanted was to get someplace warm and dry. as it turned out, what i really wanted was something warm and wet. wayne grins and closes for a kiss and...
speaker2: moves fast with the knife and...
speaker3: pop open wide.

speaker1: happy birthday, wayne. 
speaker2: are across the street.

speaker1: they're not coming out, hank! 
speaker2: the fire's not catching. the rain's too --
speaker1: we have to get them! we have to kill them! do you understand? if they're not dead, we got jack

speaker1: look out the windows. 
speaker2: my they're beautiful.

speaker1: moves back from hank's advancing bullet holes. 
speaker2: keeps firing.

speaker1: lands in the water and goes under. 
speaker2: look for tom in the water.

speaker1: comes out of the water, aiming his shotgun at... 
speaker2: who is aiming his pistol at tom. phil freezes.

speaker1: fumbles with the bullet clip. 
speaker1: kill him!

speaker1: kill him! 
speaker2: exchange a look.

speaker1: points his gun at hank. 
speaker1: no! we can't --

speaker1: jim nods at the sheriff's rifle. 
speaker2: in the boat.
speaker3: hesitates, then tosses his rifle into the boat.
speaker4: grabs hank's rifle and aims it at the sheriff.
speaker4: where's karen?
speaker5: curves and goes into the wall.

speaker1: i am really beginning to hate fine craftsmanship. 
speaker2: it's up to her chest.
speaker3: where is she?
speaker4: they went back to her house.
speaker3: where's her house?
speaker4: it's --
speaker5: what in name is that?
speaker4: hank?
speaker6: it's topped out.
speaker4: how much time we got?
speaker6: how should i know?
speaker4: guess!
speaker6: it's an old dam! not long.
speaker4: then i'd say you boys better drop your guns.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: that's the deal! you let me and hank go -- with a few of these bags -- and i'll tell you where to find karen.
speaker5: get out of the boat.
speaker3: hold on.
speaker5: hold on?
speaker4: it's the only way you're gonna find her!
speaker3: it's only a couple of bags.
speaker5: no.
speaker3: but i thought --
speaker5: look, i don't know what you thought but i told you, i'm here for the money; that's all.
speaker7: she lives on boyd street.
speaker7: alive, but barely.
speaker7: three over. two-story, blue shutters.

speaker1: drives the boat out through a shattered window. 
speaker2: pushes the sheriff out of the boat.

speaker1: so, you just gonna kill me? 
speaker2: lord knows i should.

speaker1: wades in along the upper hall. 
speaker1: i'm guessing you can't get up.
speaker2: i'm handcuffed.
speaker2: the railing's bolted to the wall.
speaker2: i've got a saw.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: in the kitchen. in the tall cupboard beside the --
speaker1: is that good or bad?

speaker1: you gotta go! 
speaker1: the dam's gone! you gotta go!
speaker2: i owe you one.

speaker1: we gotta go faster! 
speaker2: yeah, you're right.

speaker1: and he clutches it to his chest as... 
speaker2: hits the church.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: there's an alleyway.
speaker1: swims for the alley.

speaker1: tom swims in, fast, toward the stairs when... 
speaker2: caves in and...

speaker1: snaps. 
speaker2: look at each other. oh no. karen's going under.
speaker3: sees something. he dives into the water.

speaker1: come on, henry. forget that "go to the light" crap. come back to me. you're all i've got. 
speaker1: oh, henry. thank
speaker2: next time, when i say "let's evacuate," we're gonna evacuate.
speaker1: whatever you say, honey.

speaker1: hears an engine behind her and turns. 
speaker2: racing toward the house. it's...
speaker3: and at the controls is...
speaker4: barely alive.

speaker1: pushes the throttle all the way forward. 
speaker2: shoots forward.
speaker3: tom swims hard toward the sheriff's boat.

speaker1: thinks he's going to turn. 
speaker1: no! no!
speaker2: doesn't turn.
speaker1: rolls to the side, just getting clear as...

speaker1: hears the sound and looks up as... 
speaker2: comes over the peak of the roof.
speaker3: surfaces to see...
speaker2: fly right over him, heading straight for...
speaker1: who ducks down, just in time as...
speaker2: misses him, landing just past him in the water.

speaker1: sees jim slump against the side of the boat. 
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: fine.

speaker1: oh, we gotta get you to -- 
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: you just saved our lives.
speaker2: i did? i just came for the money.
speaker3: do you need any help?
speaker2: no. tell her to stay back.
speaker1: it's okay!
speaker2: you're going to turn it in?
speaker1: sorry to disappoint you.
speaker2: well, hell, then i guess i better take it after all. i figure the river'll carry me down to the gulf of mexico. if i catch the right currents, maybe i'll end up in... belize? you come look me up. i'll buy you a drink.
speaker1: i'll do that.
speaker2: go.
speaker2: please.
speaker2: son, don't think too badly of your uncle charlie. he always said you were capable of remarkable things. he was right.
speaker2: the rain's stopped. the air after a rain...

speaker1: they got a lot done today. 
speaker2: it's coming along. what'd you get?
speaker1: barbecue chicken from lilly's.
speaker2: yum.
speaker1: you want some? i wish you'd told me. i woulda got more.
speaker2: ha ha.

speaker1: i talked to mikey. he says the flooring should be in by friday. 
speaker2: that's what he said last week.
speaker1: i said if it wasn't here by friday at six that you were going to go over and beat the out of him.
speaker2: and i will.

