speaker1: they're dead, aren't they? 
speaker2: officers, i'm alec newberry with congressman langston's office.
speaker3: i think they're okay.
speaker1: thank
speaker1: are you aware there's a three- hundred-pound man walking around naked?

speaker1: wendy. oh, my are you all right??? 
speaker2: i'm fine. it's the car my father gave me for graduation that's totalled.
speaker3: find billy. see if you can sober him up.
speaker2: how much do i owe you?
speaker4: he almost killed you. destroyed your car, and you're paying...?
speaker5: jules, please.
speaker2: is that your date?
speaker4: no, that's my date!
speaker6: you pressing charges?
speaker2: no.
speaker7: 'i'm mr. hicks' legal counsel and he's not required to take any tests.

speaker1: you're a little late, counselor. he's in the van giving blood right now. 
speaker2: i'll have to be with her all night. they don't know if she's going to make it.
speaker3: she looks fine.
speaker2: shock. she could black out at any second... i'll call you...
speaker4: he's cute.
speaker2: too young... and don't you both start on your father complex theory.

speaker1: we're dealing with a first offender here, and since ms. beamish doesn't want to press charges, whaddya say we just let this one slide, officers? 
speaker2: okay, you're under arrest.

speaker1: i wouldn't strike a match near his blood. 
speaker2: hey, watch my sax...
speaker3: billy -- four months after graduation and you're still acting like every night's a fraternity party. aren't you even concerned about wendy?
speaker2: wendy? how bad is it?
speaker1: severe. she might have finally exceeded the limit on her father's visa.
speaker3: will you both get serious. he's being arrested for drunk driving.
speaker2: drunk maybe. but i don't know if you could call that driving.
speaker2: sorry, babe... sorry.
speaker4: we'll be right behind you!

speaker1: dale?... dale biberman? 
speaker1: you don't remember me.
speaker2: i do, but i'm trying...
speaker1: kirby kreager. you were a senior when i started georgetown.
speaker2: kirby... it's been four years.
speaker3: i graduated!
speaker2: i always knew you would.
speaker1: and i'm a lawyer. i mean i'm a waiter, studying to be a lawyer... and you became a doctor... just like you said you would.
speaker2: almost. i'm finishing my clinical.
speaker1: dale biberman. i can't believe it. do you still like woody allen movies?
speaker2: i've got to go. nice seeing you.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 6.

speaker1: alec, could you kinds burn a little rubber? 
speaker1: thanks for bailing me out.
speaker2: again.

speaker1: when are you going to get a new car? one that truly expresses your lifestyle as the perfect couple. 
speaker2: not everybody got recruited out of school into international banking, 'moneybags.'
speaker3: besides... my mom and dad gave us this car. i think i was conceived in the back seat.
speaker4: it's still sticky.
speaker5: oh, wait 'til my father hears the car is totalled.
speaker6: i'm gonna get you a new car, wendy.
speaker4: you're welcome. you're welcome.
speaker4: you're not welcome, clayton. how's school?
speaker7: baroque. thank you very much.
speaker4: like getting slam-dunked against a brick wall, thank you very much.
speaker7: college is the last womb. got a cigarette for a lowly undergrad?
speaker4: if you tell me the meaning of life?
speaker4: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 8.

speaker1: wally! you let undergrad punks at our tables??? 
speaker2: relax, alec... they've only been there ten minutes.
speaker1: yeah, well, we've been here for four years.
speaker3: hey, i need a real drink.
speaker4: waiters are like cops. never around when you need one.
speaker3: will somebody get me a screwdriver?
speaker5: and a hammer.
speaker1: you know what it means to have a suspended license for drunk driving on your record?
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84

speaker1: yeah, al. it means i won't ever be able to be a cop in d.c... hey, wend, you're not angry are you? 
speaker2: no, i'm not angry.
speaker3: never trust a woman who says she isn't angry.

speaker1: you better call your wife, billy. 
speaker2: you're the one who's so angry these days. i thought writing for the washington post would make you happy.
speaker3: writing obituaries is not writing, jules. all my characters die in the and. i'd like to write something about the meaning of life for a change.
speaker4: you'll get your chance, kevin.
speaker5: hey, tommy...
speaker5: tommy bancroft, senator hodges' key guy. come on, i want you to meet him.
speaker2: the meaning of life, kevin, is fun, good times and a little h-u-m-o-r. don't you enjoy anything anymore? like girls?
speaker3: i enjoy being afraid of russia. it's a harmless fear. makes america feel better and russia gets an inflated sense of national worth from our paranoia... excuse me, i have to call in my latest epitaphs to the death squad. the presses are waiting.
speaker6: did you see her at the hospital?

speaker1: well, honey, i kinda had a car accident... what? stop shouting. i know i don't have any insurance. aren't you even gonna ask if i'm okay? -- 
speaker1: here's kevin, he wants to say hello.
speaker1: hey, wally... a double screwdriver.
speaker1: so, you believe in premarital sax?

speaker1: will you both give billy a break? 
speaker2: the job alec got for him?
speaker3: you didn't give him any money, did you?
speaker4: a little...

speaker1: i thought you were going to take definite steps to change everything in your life that is not working. 
speaker2: that doesn't leave much left.
speaker3: i better break this to alec gently before he finds out the wrong way and destroys his political career by murdering billy in front of fifty witnesses.
speaker4: wendy, this is all too destructive.
speaker2: life in the-fat lane.
speaker4: you're not fat.
speaker2: my thighs are fat. and no diet works. the only way to lose weight on your thighs is amputation.
speaker4: you have to amputate billy the kid.
speaker2: i know, but i can't.
speaker4: i don't get it.
speaker2: me, either.
speaker5: billy gets cozier with the young woman.
speaker6: so, what line of work are you in?
speaker7: me? i'm a very important drinker!
speaker7: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 12.

speaker1: i came with my girl friend. 
speaker2: that's okay, honey. this face seats five.
speaker3: billy, may i see you, please.
speaker4: alec and billy enter.
speaker2: what's up, al?
speaker3: may i see you over here, please.
speaker3: why didn't you tell me you blew another job?
speaker2: for some insane reason i thought you'd take it badly.
speaker5: don't drown him, he's a father.
speaker3: that's right, you are a father and when are you gonna grow up?
speaker2: like this was real mature, al?
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 12a.

speaker1: working for senator pomerantz was not for me... 
speaker2: sorry, billy.
speaker3: that's all right. you couldn't help yourself. you're an besides, the wet look is in.
speaker4: why do they put ice cubes in the urinals?
speaker5: it tastes better.

speaker1: if we could find the money it would be better to get the longer sofa. 
speaker2: tommy bancroft said i could start working on weekends for hodges. no pay at first, but a way toward big dough.
speaker1: isn't hodges a republican?
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 1 4.

speaker1: he's a senator, and republican senators' aides get paid a lot more than democratic congressmen's assistants. 
speaker2: what happened to that newberry political conviction i fell in love with?
speaker3: you want the longer sofa?
speaker2: - i want you.
speaker3: i'm going to buy you a red nightgown with satin and lace.
speaker2: and rubber and leather...
speaker3: yeah, leather...
speaker2: your breath is so sweet... wait, let me get the babykiller.
speaker3: come on. let's just do it. we're getting married soon.
speaker2: not so soon.
speaker3: let's take a chance... russian roulette!
speaker2: and guess who has to carry the bullet around for nine months.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 15.

speaker1: who could that be? 
speaker2: who else could it be... jules, of course, afraid to stay in her new apartment alone and she's spending the night again.
speaker3: so this crummy welfare hospital called and remember i told you about my father's second wife. my 'stepmonster.'
speaker4: the one who used to lock you in the closet all the time?
speaker3: she gambled away all the money she got out of my father, is on her i deathbed and she put me down as next of kin.
speaker4: but what about your father?
speaker3: unreachable somewhere in south africa with his new wife, who it turns out is only three years older than me. and if i don't reach him, guess who's going to end up paying for that old witch's funeral. is there some insane irony to this or what?
speaker4: i'm sure your father will take care of everything.
speaker3: sure, just like he takes care of everything else, including not showing up for my graduation.

speaker1: thanks, alec. you're still my indiana jones. always coming to my rescue. 
speaker2: i just know better than to try and break the umbilical cord between two old roommates. good night, jules.

speaker1: quick, what's the meaning of life? 
speaker2: dale biberman.
speaker2: the girl i fell in love with when we were freshmen. remember, i met her at that big fountain on main campus? the one that says 'knowledge, art, religion, life'... she was sitting on the 'life' side and she smiled at me.
speaker1: you took her to one movie! that's not love, it's infatuation!

speaker1: kevin, there are several quintessential moments in a man's life... losing his virginity... 
speaker2: ... getting married... becoming a father.
speaker3: killing his roommate for removing janis joplin for the soundtrack from manhattan???
speaker2: and having the right girl smile at you. she has the whitest teeth i've ever seen.
speaker3: if you think i'm going to live through another year of finding poorly written, unmailed love scratchings around this apartment.
speaker2: i found her again. it's fate. it's true love. i have her hospital schedule!
speaker3: love is just an illusion created by lawyer-types like yourself to perpetuate another illusion called marriage to create the reality of divorce and the illusory need for divorce lawyers. did you know there are more people in law school right now than there are lawyers on the planet?
speaker2: you're just bitter, 'cause you haven't had for a long time.
speaker3: no wonder. the sexual revolution?

speaker1: nobody... it used to be that was the only free thing in the world. no longer. palimony, alimony. all financial. love's an illusion. 
speaker2: it's the only illusion that counts.
speaker1: says who?
speaker2: anyone who's ever been in love.
speaker1: love stinks.

speaker1: you should have bought the red dress. red drives men mad. 
speaker1: see...
speaker2: i have a mad man in my life already.
speaker1: you have to put some kind of distance between you and billy.
speaker3: jules is right.
speaker3: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 18a.

speaker1: it's easy for both of you. men are just a game for you jules. 
speaker2: trivial pursuit.
speaker1: and of course you and alec are...
speaker3: the perfect couple!!!
speaker4: thanks for the pressure, guys...
speaker4: .. shouldn't we be finding you an apartment?

speaker1: how'd you do? 
speaker2: i'm an official pollster, thanks to alec.
speaker3: i had to promise our first born. 'keep your nose clean and you could move up fast, billy.
speaker2: you're a alec.
speaker4: how 'bout marys on me at st. elmo's?
speaker3: i gotta get back to work.
speaker5: since when do you work on saturdays?
speaker6: since he started volunteer moonlighting for senator hodges.
speaker7: what is the three-year president of georgetown's young democrats doing working for a republican?
speaker3: moving up, kirbo.

speaker1: i told you i'd get you a new car. i'm goin' ultimate on this gig, wend. gonna pay you back for everything... 
speaker2: what about felicia and the baby?
speaker1: hey, come on, it's saturday night. let's party out. let's go ultimate.
speaker3: okay. why can't i say no to you?

speaker1: you haven't been here since you helped me move in... 
speaker2: oh, did you move in, too? i only. remember 800 pair of shoes.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: very subtle and very pink. must have cost some subtle bucks.
speaker1: why do you think invented credit for fabulous people like me? fix us a drink.
speaker1: i knew you'd like it. you have such sensitivity... fix me a vodka rocks...
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 24.

speaker1: why, dale? how nice to see you again. 
speaker2: kirby, what brings you back here?
speaker1: oh, no... just tying up some legal loose ends for my friends...
speaker2: excuse me... i'm late...
speaker3: ah, funny running into you again. i noticed there's going to be a woody allen festival and i thought maybe we...
speaker2: i don't get to the movies much anymore... i've got to go.
speaker4: well, lunch. how about lunch?
speaker2: sure. that would be nice sometime.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 25.

speaker1: a whole community within itself. right near lockheed. 
speaker2: looks like it could be put together with leggo blocks. you design this?
speaker3: i did all the mechanicals for one of our senior architects and i think he's going to promote me to the design staff.
speaker2: maybe you could design a corkscrew that actually works. everything in this apartment comes from scandinavia. they don't even have wine in scandinavia.
speaker2: do you think my attachment to alec is unnatural?
speaker1: no, i think mine is. we've only just started to live together and he's already pushing for 'the wedding.'
speaker2: well, since you fell in love with a democrat and now he's a republican, i think all bets are off.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 26.
speaker4: ã¢â€â¢ leslie burns herself and shouts.
speaker1: how do some women do this every night of their lives and not go insane?
speaker2: they are insane. wives, husbands, children, love, marriage, relationship. it's all insane.
speaker1: that's what i'm afraid of. did i tell you that my perfect sister and her perfect husband are getting a perfect divorce-?
speaker2: i have the perfect cure. stay away from love.
speaker1: you must have been in love, once.
speaker2: doesn't alec hate them?
speaker1: insurrection... now, come on, kevin, you must have been in love with somebody, sometime...
speaker2: once, in junior high. i played guitar in a group and fellin love with our singer who did 'we've only just begun' as sweet as karen carpenter. i got high on cheap champagne and pledged my love. next day she ran off with the bass player named rocky and i traded my guitar in for a battered underwood typewriter.
speaker1: on which you will type your way to being one of the most important writers in america.
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 27.

speaker1: on which i continue to turn out obituaries and very little else... 
speaker2: i can't seem to organize any of my thoughts into anything of any substance.
speaker3: maybe you need to stop thinking so much and fall in love again.
speaker2: love stinks.
speaker4: hi, guys.
speaker2: rough day with the right wing, dear?
speaker4: try it on...
speaker4: leslie has to marry me, soon.
speaker2: why, you pregnant? kidding.
speaker4: when you have a serious relationship, kev, you'll find out the problem with living together: it's too easy.
speaker2: maybe for you and leslie. you have the perfect relationship.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 28. s

speaker1: i mean, it's too easy to get out of. you either build to something bigger -- like marriage -- or one day you could make a mistake and the person you were living with is gone. 
speaker2: i'm going to kill myself.
speaker3: they're only peppers, alec.
speaker2: i can't believe what i just did. i innocently go to buy the nightgown and this amazing blonde salesgirl starts coming on to me... we wind up doing it standing up in front of a three-way mirror in the dressing room.
speaker2: if leslie would just marry me, i know i wouldn't do stuff like that -- it would be a legal violation.
speaker3: as opposed to tonight's standing violation. you think marriage is going to make you faithful?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: the idea of two people spending their lives together was invented by people who were lucky to make it to thirty without being eaten by dinosaurs. marriage is obsolete.
speaker2: dinosaurs are obsolete. marriage is still around.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 28a.

speaker1: you want a date...? hi... you want a date... 
speaker2: why don't you ever ask me if i want a date?
speaker1: 'cause i thought you were gay.
speaker2: why would you think i'm gay?
speaker1: 'cause i never see you with a girl.
speaker2: well, just for your information. i happen to be in love with someone but they don't know it. i guess you wouldn't understand loving someone from afar.
speaker1: delaware's about as far as i've ever gone. is this person a he or a she?
speaker2: it's a secret. but i guess you wouldn't understand about that, either.
speaker1: oh honey, lots of people come to me for love and it's a secret.

speaker1: see our real purpose, miss chambers, or do you prefer ms... is to get you off welfare and train you in a skilled profession. now, do you have any interest in the janitorial field? 
speaker2: jus' give me my check.
speaker1: there are educational...
speaker2: jus' give me my check.
speaker2: you get some hot clothes, get yourself a man... you won't be worryin' about all this
speaker3: welfare recipients are getting better-looking these days.
speaker1: ever feel like you're not accomplishing anything?
speaker3: i think i'm in touch with the feeling. let's go get a drink.
speaker4: billy, why aren't you at work?
speaker5: buddy, the only extra money i have is my savings for the most important date of my life.
speaker5: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 31.

speaker1: are you in love? 
speaker2: i'm ripped between rapture and s torture. s
speaker3: i'm all tapped out from the accident but i could probably get some from my father...
speaker4: no more money from you, wend. but maybe you could help me find another job.
speaker5: do you have any interest in the janitorial field?
speaker3: you should be playing your music.
speaker4: i'm a family man and the rent is due.
speaker6: you you have to start making passes at the women you're supposed to be polling?
speaker4: actually, they were the ones who suggested another type of polin'...
speaker6: you're twenty-three years old.

speaker1: and you're a great american.- are you new at this? or just an asshole? 
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 32.

speaker1: you're not the fraternity star anymore. no more billy the kid. 
speaker2: i didn't bargain for you turning out this way.
speaker3: and i didn't bargain for you turning into a pompous politico. suckin' up to hodges. that's it, al, isn't it?... you've become a republican!!!
speaker2: and you've become a drunk.
speaker3: oh, no, not just 'a' drunk, big al. one of the great drunks!

speaker1: oh, i forgot, kev. you don't do anything alec doesn't tell you to do. well, that's-okay, 'cause just remember one thing. you can pick your friends and you can pick your nose, but you can't pick your friend's nose. 
speaker2: stay right here, wendy.

speaker1: alec newberry. 
speaker2: alec, it's jules. i'm at the van buren... x intercut their phone conversation.
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: please... i'm with these arabs... and they've been forcing me to do coke all night... and i only understand a little arabic, but i'm sure i heard the words for 'gang bang' and 'white slavery'...

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: open up.

speaker1: alec, what are you doing here? 
speaker2: okay, nobody make a move. 42 int. vax buren lobby - right 42 s jules and alec walk from the elevators.
speaker1: you're a real pal. my indiana jones. i won't forget how you came to my rescue again.
speaker2: they hardly impressed me as the gang bang type, jules. now much coke have you done?
speaker1: shovels full. they've got barrels.
speaker2: you're just paranoid from the coke. you know sometimes i think you just make up these dramas to test me or something.
speaker1: that's very interesting, let's stay up all night like the old days and discuss it.
speaker2: i have to be at work in a few hours.

speaker1: 'i'm a financial genius, haven't you heard? 
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 35.
speaker2: she goes toward the public phone.

speaker1: who are you calling? 
speaker2: a systems analyst i met... very hot jewish guy.
speaker1: what are you, the new middle east ambassador? it's two-thirty.
speaker2: and waste all this good coke!

speaker1: excuse me, sir. we do not open until eleven. 
speaker2: that's all right. i'll wait.
speaker1: do you have a reservation?
speaker3: yes. kreager. one o'clock. i want this table.
speaker1: at that time, i will find a lovely table for you and your guest. but this is a table for four.
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 36.

speaker1: i'll pay double. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker3: i want this table... and i'm waiting right here.

speaker1: you could order a nice napa valley chardonney, unless you want to impress her with an import. 
speaker2: money's no object.
speaker1: montrechart or mersalt then and don't forget to smell the cork.
speaker2: okay and how do you say escargot?
speaker1: escargot. i'd stay away from them if i were you... heavy garlic.

speaker1: it's payday, thank 
speaker2: jules, you're advanced on your salary two months. i have no check for you.
speaker3: jules, i owe you.
speaker3: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 37.

speaker1: that's good. 'cause i owe everyone else. 
speaker2: i've got to pay for my stepmonster's funeral. then i'll catch up.
speaker3: i'm afraid you'll have to see forrester davidson.
speaker2: the president of the bank?

speaker1: could you please clean up these crumbs, waiter? 
speaker2: i am not the waiter. i am the captain.
speaker1: aye, aye, sir.
speaker3: sorry i'm late. have you been waiting long?
speaker4: just got here.
speaker3: the food is great here.
speaker5: i'll be having the alfalfa sprouts and a plate of mashed yeast.
speaker5: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 38.

speaker1: are you a vegetarian? 
speaker2: ho... that's from annie hall, the movie we saw together... don't you remember?
speaker3: that's funny... i thought we went to see a mel brooks movie.
speaker2: ho... it was annie hall.
speaker3: are you sure? 'cause i don't like _ woody allen movies very much.
speaker4: oh, me, too. i hate woody allen movies.
speaker5: will you be ordering any wine?
speaker2: of course... we'll have the...
speaker3: i can't... i'm on call.
speaker2: so... how's your, uh... are you seeing anyone?
speaker3: to tell you the truth, my work's so time-consuming, i don't get the chance to date, but when i do -- well, medicine's such an incestuous profession, the only people i seem to ever go out with are doctors.
speaker5: miss biberman? telephone.

speaker1: r see, they just won't let me alone. 
speaker1: hello... yes, yes, doctor, right away.
speaker1: i've got to get back to the hospital. i'm so sorry. maybe we can do this again sometime.
speaker2: when?
speaker3: have you had enough time to look at the menu?
speaker4: kevin and kirbo fold their laundry.
speaker5: you cannot go to med school just to impress this girl with whom you have a fleeting infatuation.
speaker2: this is not just an infatuation and she's not just a girl -- she's the only evidence of i can find on this planet -- with the exception of the mystical force which removes one of my socks from the dryer every time i do laundry.
speaker2: 'fluff and fold.' i'm telling you, kev, when i make it, that's where i take my laundry.
speaker5: dreamer.
speaker2: i understand 'fold,' but what is 'fluff'?
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 40.

speaker1: we've got twenty-four 'card-a- terias' now. what line are you in? 
speaker2: munitions.
speaker3: he's kidding, dad. he's a musician and a very fine one.

speaker1: please do not bring up moving out tonight. daddy'll have a heart attack in front of your boyfriend. 
speaker2: he's not my boyfriend.
speaker3: there's a nice young guy working for us now. howie krantz.
speaker2: libby, please.
speaker2: you're looking beautiful, mom.
speaker4: i'm fat. i'm thin. i'm fat. i'm thin. i'm blonde. i'm brunette.

speaker1: look at it this way. you always wanted to look like elizabeth taylor... and now you do. 
speaker1: there are certain words my mother finds too horrible to utter so she whispers them... you'll get used to it...

speaker1: hear about betty rothberg? 
speaker1: cancer.
speaker2: the day i married rachel, i got three 'card-a-teria' franchises.
speaker3: to other brother-
speaker4: you in the card game, too?
speaker5: six franchises! we have two kids.
speaker1: where did you and wendy meet again?.
speaker3: prison.
speaker6: if you'd get married and run a franchise like your sisters, you wouldn't need to borrow money.
speaker7: i have a job with the department of human services, dad.
speaker6: that's not a job. it's killing time 'til you get married.
speaker7: i'm very committed and i think i should get my own apart...
speaker8: billy's up on the roof.

speaker1: come down from there. 
speaker2: what, is he crazy?
speaker3: i knew it the minute he walked in the door...
speaker3: drugs!!!
speaker4: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 43. s
speaker5: she sits down next to him.
speaker6: all the years we lived here and no one ever did this.
speaker7: i used to do this at the prat house all the time. climb out from alec's room onto the roof and play my sax.
speaker8: oh, my wendy's up there with him!

speaker1: you miss school, don't you? 
speaker2: not a day does by that i don't wish we were all back there. everything made so much sense then. our group being so ultimate, so number one.
speaker3: every group on campus thought they were number one.
speaker2: but we were. alec and me running everything. jules and leslie the hottest girls... kevin and...
speaker3: me having the fattest thighs.
speaker2: you being the best of us all... those all-nighters when we used to talk about our dreams.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 44. s

speaker1: i was gonna save humanity. 
speaker2: i was headed for new york with my sax... to become the new clarence clemmens. then i met felicia and she got pregnant, or said she was.
speaker2: by the time i found out she had lied, she really was pregnant...
speaker3: why didn't you ever tell me that before?
speaker2: no matter... i probably wouldn't have made it in new york, anyway.
speaker3: you're very talented, billy.
speaker2: school was so ultimate. everyday life... there's no way to go ultimate.
speaker2: but if it all gets too much like just too much... you can end your life at any moment.
speaker3: that's ultimate.
speaker2: don't you ever just want to die?
speaker3: not while i'm still a virgin.
speaker2: why didn't you ever tell me that before?
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 45.

speaker1: where billy is drinking heavily at the bar. 
speaker2: want some?
speaker3: sssssh.
speaker4: sorry...
speaker2: what the is that...?
speaker5: her long-line girdle.
speaker2: what's that, your scuba suit...?
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 46.

speaker1: hey, come on, wend. you're allowed to laugh when you're screwing. 
speaker2: i don't think we should see each other, anymore.
speaker3: there's your rent money. just take it and go away.
speaker4: wend... i'm sorry...

speaker1: but don't you need science credits to get into mad school? 
speaker2: i have most of the credits from when i was going through my 'major-of-the-week' phase. all i need is organic chemistry which i just enrolled in for january.
speaker3: this must be some woman to turn 7 you into a doctor, kirbo.
speaker4: hey, i've been an amateur gynecologist for years.
speaker5: so, i went to see my boss and i thought he'd say something presidential like, 'how can i be in banking when i can't even balance my own checkbook.' but instead, he took me to dinner -- several times.
speaker1: i was wondering why you haven't been sleeping over. jules, i don't think you should start bopping your boss.
speaker5: too late, leslie. you should see him -- sort of a cross between john forsythe and richard gere.
speaker1: an old man who doesn't wear underwear.

speaker1: do you have an extra key to your apartment i could use tomorrow? 
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: remember the lingerie salesgirl?
speaker2: alec, you're going to have to learn to say 'no.'
speaker3: i need a reason to say no. until leslie agrees to marry me, i've got to grab some of the gusto.
speaker2: you've seen too many beer commercials.
speaker4: hi... this is howie krantz.
speaker2: thought you weren't coming here anymore.
speaker5: oh, we were just passing by.
speaker6: greeting cards. i work for one of wendy's brother-in-laws.
speaker6: st. elmo`s fire - rev. 10/1/84 49.

speaker1: over here! 
speaker2: everybody... this is my friend and decorator, ron dellassandro!!!
speaker2: you remember ron.
speaker3: oh,
speaker4: what's wrong?
speaker5: that's felicia. billy's wife.
speaker2: but who is she with?
speaker6: hands off my wife.
speaker7: oh, you finally remembered. where were you this past week?

speaker1: billy... 
speaker2: i said, take your hands off my wife.
speaker3: get him outta here.
speaker4: yeah, get outta here... you no- good
speaker5: i just had my nose done.
speaker3: you're fired, billy.
speaker3: you, too. out, all of you.
speaker6: he's bleeding.
speaker4: get outta here, billy. get outta my life!!!

speaker1: i shoulda had a vasectomy at birth. you ever have boys, do 'em a favor and get 'em neutered at birth. knock up some and you're the one who's really for life. i hate that bitch!!! 
speaker2: you, billy. you
speaker2: billy...
speaker3: baby...

speaker1: you just go ahead with your evening with howie. 
speaker2: yes. no matter what he looks like.

speaker1: this is all my fault. 
speaker2: ho, you married a loser and you better face it.
speaker1: don't say that.
speaker2: alec's,known it for a long time.
speaker3: you're just running away from x responsibility, and it's catching up with you, just like i said it would.
speaker1: i'll get a job.
speaker2: i won't have you working.
speaker3: listen to me, billy. there's a hot-shot korean in town. big money. he needs a gopher. i don't know, for some reason i think you might be perfect for each other.
speaker1: alec. you've been so good to us.
speaker3: but if you blow this one, billy...
speaker2: i'm not gonna blow this one, alec i'm gonna do ultimate by everybody... i almost lost my wife tonight . and my little baby... jesus...

speaker1: still want to get married? 
speaker2: leslie, that is not a marriage in there. that is a mistake.
speaker3: and who's this korean hot-shot?
speaker2: a business acquaintance.
speaker4: speaking of business acquaintances, you still want my extra key?

speaker1: hey, secret love, you want a date tonight? 
speaker2: what would you say the meaning of life is?
speaker1: got fifty bucks? i'll show you the meaning of life.
speaker2: i don't pay for sex.
speaker1: oh, you think if you get some girlfriend, or maybe a wife, you ain't gonna pay? oh, you'll pay . but you won't ever be sure you're gonna get it. now with me, you pay, but you get it, and you get it good!
speaker2: food for thought. food for 'thought. he walks toward his apartment.

speaker1: yes...? 
speaker1: hello.

speaker1: an idea for a short story, about um, people in manhattan who, uh, who are constantly creating these real, uh, unnecessary neurotic problems for themselves 'cause it keeps them from dealing with, uh, more unsolvable terrifying problems about, uh, the universe. 
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 56.

speaker1: kirbo and kevin watch. 
speaker2: not just in manhattan, woodman.
speaker2: you can't keep ringing doorbells and running away, calling her and hanging up. what are you afraid of?
speaker3: rejection. total and devastating. as long as she hasn't rejected me, there's hope.
speaker2: i have lived with a secret obsession many years myself. however, i realize the other person has no interest in me -- so i pursue my career which is going even more unsuccessfully.
speaker3: who are you in love with?
speaker2: i don't have to share everything with you...
speaker2: my underwear is enough. kirbo, if you must pursue this narcissistic mortification, that you have decided to call love, then you must ask her out on a proper date. like a young like alec, our leader, would.
speaker4: alec has balls. he sees things with his balls. a ball's-eye view so to speak.
speaker4: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 57.

speaker1: you'll go fluff and fold, someday. whereas i will still be writing obits. i can't even come up with a decent piece for the paper to show my editor. 
speaker2: i can't help you with your writer's block -- until i see that look in dale biberman's eyes. the look that says she knows i'm the one for her.
speaker1: kirbo, what about all the other women you were going out with?
speaker2: they weren't women. they were practice.
speaker1: you'll never catch me making a fool ofmyself over a beautiful woman. i know what they're really made of. watch this.

speaker1: leave me alone. 
speaker2: the defense rests.

speaker1: hi. x 
speaker2: we came to take you to lunch.
speaker1: i can't leave here and go to la petite chateau. ladies, please, x let's have a little perspective.
speaker3: well, we could eat here.
speaker2: campbell's mushroom barley. how chic.
speaker1: this is myra. myra, jules and leslie.
speaker3: how's howie?
speaker1: i wouldn't say my father is trying to bribe me, but he offered me a chrysler le baron convertible if i'd get engaged to howie.
speaker2: have you him yet?
speaker1: jules!!!
speaker2: you haven't? listen, get engaged. x get the car. him and if you don't like it, break the engagement.
speaker4: they put their trays down at a table.
speaker4: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 59.

speaker1: well, no sense beating around the bush. wendy, we came to see you because we're both worried about you. 
speaker2: no, jules, that was the scam that leslie and i worked out because we were worried about you.
speaker1: moi? your were worried about moi?
speaker3: we were worried about you and this affair with your boss.
speaker1: forrester is the greatest...
speaker3: forrester is married...
speaker1: leslie, this is the eighties... i bop him for a few years -- get his job when he gets caught with his hand in the vault. i become a legend -- do a black mink ad, but get caught in a scandal. retire in massive disgrace -- but write a huge bestseller and become the star of my own talk show.
speaker2: silly of us to be concerned.
speaker1: and besides, forrester suggested some fabulous alternatives for my stepmonster...
speaker2: that's another thing. you seem obsessed with this woman's dying.
speaker1: well, it turned out that cremation is almost as expensive as the non- torch method -- so if i don't find a cheaper solution -- i'll probably end up...

speaker1: oh, i've got to meet forrester. 
speaker2: jules, you haven't touched your food.
speaker1: who'd want to? i think this was a wonderful talk, don't you? nice meeting you, myra.

speaker1: the senior architect i've been assisting is going to promote me to the design staff. 
speaker2: that's so great.
speaker1: yeah, it worked out really well.
speaker2: that's great. so i guess that means marriage now, huh?
speaker1: it scares me. my sister lived with her husband for five years before they got married. and now it's over. they loved each other so much, but somehow it just disappeared.
speaker1: st. eli10's fire - rev. 10/11/84 61/62.

speaker1: you can't say that. you're not your sister. you and alec were made for each other. 
speaker2: i love alec. i do, but i just don't think i'm ready for the big step.
speaker3: seen billy?
speaker2: i was wondering how long it was going to take until you asked.
speaker4: it's like stopping smoking. i can go as long as i can and then i just have to have a hit.
speaker2: alec's got him working for some korean gangster, and i actually think billy is doing a great job.
speaker4: great. great.

speaker1: everyone is shocked to see everyone. 
speaker2: ah... i thought you were comin' back thursday.

speaker1: excuse me... sir...?' 
speaker2: kirby... how are you?
speaker3: i'm obsessed. thank you very much.

speaker1: r what's going on? 
speaker2: i'm going to be a doctor.
speaker1: that's not what's going on.
speaker2: why did you tell me you had to work tonight? why did you lie?
speaker1: i didn't want to hurt your feelings.
speaker2: i'm obsessed with you, dale. i have been for four years.
speaker1: but you don't even know me.
speaker2: i know. but i'm obsessed by my fantasy of you.

speaker1: i'm very average... full of flaws... 
speaker1: i'm a slob.., can't even make a bed straight... you ready for more...
speaker1: .. i steal people magazine from my dentist's office.

speaker1: here. watch. dale biberman takes out her own garbage. 
speaker1: here's my roommate, judith. she hates me.
speaker2: i hate her.
speaker1: and here's the worst of all... when i first decided to be a doctor, i thought it was because i wanted to serve people. but now, well, i'm beginning to get this funny feeling that what medicine's really all about is money... you want some coffee?
speaker3: it's money, isn't it? that's what you're trying to tell me. it's 'cause i don't have any money! thank you for being so honest.
speaker1: kirby?

speaker1: like old times, billy-boy. 
speaker2: you know i've been thinkin', troy 6 9 i'd like to get some kind of job maybe on campus... you know work with the students or the fraternity. maybe coaching or something.
speaker1: we could use somebody like you around, billy.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah. we need somebody to get us some good drugs.
speaker2: hi, babe...
speaker3: 'member ray slater? he was the guy i was goin' with before i met you?
speaker2: felic...
speaker3: he came to see me, billy, and he still wants to marry me. and held take good care of melody and i could probably get an annulment.
speaker2: don't give up on me. please, baby.

speaker1: i know it's been rough on you. but i'll get the right job soon. i'll change... i swear it. no women, no booze... you won't believe how ultimate i'm gonna go... 
speaker2: i work out of my house. you must be available twenty-four hours a day. complete discretion and loyalty. five hundred dollars a week.
speaker3: i'm your man, mr. ho.
speaker2: your scholastic record is very impressive, why would you be willing to leave law school for essentially a gofer's position?
speaker3: i don't feel it has any relevancy in the world i want to go into.
speaker2: which world is that?
speaker3: the 'real' world. besides, did you know that there are more students in law school than there are practicing lawyers?

speaker1: kirby. what are you up to? 
speaker2: i was hand-picked as special attache to kim sung ho. you know, the famous korean entrepreneur?
speaker1: what about medical school?
speaker2: i have to grab my huge financial opportunities while-i can. it's all about money, isn't it, dale?
speaker1: well, good luck.
speaker2: i'm giving a little party saturday night at kim's house. i'd really like to see you there.
speaker1: well, thank you, kirby. i'll try...
speaker3: she'll be there. you see her face when she saw this car?
speaker4: mr. ho catches you having a party in his house saturday night.
speaker2: he won't be back until sunday... remember, there's an extra hundred bucks for you and kenny to shut up.
speaker2: fluff and fold!!!

speaker1: we'll be right down. alec comes from the bedroom getting dressed. 
speaker2: june first!'
speaker1: honey, i just got promoted. i'm going to have a lot more responsibility. i'm sure it's the right time.
speaker2: looking at my big picture agenda, i want to be playing softball with my firstborn in about four years.
speaker1: do you realize that over half the marriages today end in divorce.
speaker2: and the other half don't.
speaker1: my six-year-old niece asked me today why everyone's father doesn't live in a separate house like her father does. i don't want us to become another divorce statistic in newsweek.
speaker2: look at my parents. my father may not come home with a raging hard- on, anymore, but they're happy.
speaker2: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 70. t

speaker1: your father sits around playing chess while your mother talks to him constantly. but he's not listening. 
speaker2: that's probably why they're happy. leslie, let's stop living together . get married and start really living together!
speaker1: sweetheart, please. let's not talk about it tonight. this party means a lot to kirbo. the floor's filthy again.
speaker2: just pick a date, any date...
speaker1: there are some things we have to work out first.

speaker1: okay. okay. like my mom always says, 'don't get a hard-on'... 
speaker2: and like my mom always says... 'marriage makes two people one.
speaker1: yeah, and like my pop says, 'the way to woman's heart is,to saw her in half.' st. elmo's fire - rev. 1.0/1/84 71.

speaker1: so, does this mean you're officially engaged? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: no... it just means i'm officially thinking about it.
speaker4: what is this? howie, didn't you always think women were dying to get married?
speaker2: not to me.

speaker1: does alec know you're doing this? 
speaker2: i told him i had kim's permission. should i go for the formal'tux, or the velvet smoking jacket, i-do- this -all -the -time look?
speaker1: you've left school, put yourself into debt, lied to alec who got you this job in the first place -- and all for a woman who doesn't seem to be interested in you.
speaker2: when she sees me in this setting and realizes my potential, which she has always secretly known about me, the veil will be stripped from her eyes and she will give herself to me tonight.

speaker1: perhaps in that very bed you are sitting on. is the cummerbund out of style? 
speaker2: well, excuse me, buckeroo. but i think you're a fool.
speaker3: perhaps, but a well-dressed fool.

speaker1: holds court for the undergrads. 
speaker1: the best advice i can give you undergrads is to fail. failure is a virtue in today's society. human error is a badge of honor. if you're the alcoholic child of a celebrity, you can blame them and earn a year on the best-seller list. if you're a celebrity, your mistake will earn you a people magazine cover. it's post- watergate morality. take responsibility for your mistakes and make a quick buck while you're at it.
speaker2: then sully snuck the pizza waitress into the showers...

speaker1: and the fat chick sandy met on a plane. alec and me pretended to be renting agents. she wound up taking on the whole house... 
speaker2: i'm not getting you any more jobs, billy...
speaker3: you know, al, you're so perfect. such a young i'll bet you were sproutin' pubic hairs at the age of three.
speaker4: jules, your hands are shaking.
speaker5: thin blood.
speaker6: how's forrester?
speaker5: oh,
speaker6: how's your stepmother?
speaker5: hanging on. the old witch. at least it gives me a chance to funeral-shop. did i tell you i found this place in california -- 'the neptune society.' they'll wrap her up and throw her to the sharks for five hundred dollars... but i have to ship the body all the way out there... excuse me.

speaker1: so how you doin'? still living at home? 
speaker2: yeah, how about you?
speaker1: felicia hasn't kicked me out yet.
speaker2: you been playin' your sax?
speaker1: i hocked it to pay the phone bill... you forgiven me yet for bein' such a horse's ass?
speaker2: there's nothing to forgive. in fact, i should thank you... it helped me grow up a lot and see how stupid i was...
speaker1: how stupid you were to be caring about a loser like me. i agree with you wholeheartedly.
speaker2: you have a lot of talent, billy.
speaker1: so you still a virgin?
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/1/84 74.

speaker1: that's none of your business. 
speaker2: emergency break in!... operator! . that's right... what do you mean she won't release the phone??? did you tell her i'm giving a party for her???
speaker3: quiet. big al has an announcement.
speaker3: on june first. leslie will do me the long-awaited honor of becoming my bride. you're all invited.
speaker4: alec, you're drunk.
speaker4: alec, may i speak to you please...

speaker1: hey, howie... how 'bout we make it a double wedding? 
speaker2: can i use your car?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: wendy, please, this is the most important thing in my life...
speaker3: it's brand new.
speaker4: trust me.

speaker1: you just want a yearly christmas card with the newberrys in front of the fireplace.. 
speaker2: you're just afraid to commit.
speaker1: you don't have to slow down your career to help raise them.
speaker2: christ, will you just for once not make the reason you won't marry me your career!
speaker1: all right then, what will we do about your extra-curricular love life?
speaker2: what extra-curricular love life?

speaker1: what did kevin tell you? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: what?

speaker1: what'd you tell her?... little buddy... little traitor. huh, what'd you tell her? 
speaker2: he told me nothing. it was just a hunch... until now.
speaker1: leslie, i want you out of the apartment tonight.

speaker1: you better get off the phone and open this door! 
speaker2: are you the maniac trying to cut in on my line?
speaker3: where is dale?
speaker2: she went skiing.
speaker3: what???... where???
speaker2: why should i tell you?
speaker3: because i'm not responsible for what i'll do to you if you don't.

speaker1: i haven't been here for a long time. 
speaker2: it's still the same. small and ugly... but then again it's small and ugly. are you sure we shouldn't find you some nice lady-like hotel?
speaker1: no, i'll be fine here for tonight 0 as long as i'm not putting you or kirbo to any trouble...
speaker1: . what are you doing.with a coffin?
speaker2: that's not how you're supposed to ask. you're supposed to be a young lady who is very impressed with. my mind. having come from a deep hungarian film and getting cozy over a brandy, she says... 'is that... a coffin...?' and, then i say, 'yes, it's my coffin' . 'your coffin,' she would gasp, her interest in me growing by leaps and bounds. then'i would sit back stroking her arm and say 'yes, i figured we're going to spend a long time in the ground together so i've made friends with it... i've gotten drunk on it... rolled joints on it . even made love on it many times!' it's a prop for affect.
speaker1: does it work?
speaker2: how would i know?
speaker1: well you better not let jules see it. she'll steal it for her stepmother. are these relatives of yours?

speaker1: distinguished family. 
speaker2: no, that's more effect.
speaker2: you remember my family.
speaker3: so i've wandered into a real woman trap here, haven't i?
speaker2: except you're the first woman i've ever been able to get up here. and i've blown all my props already... so how about some brandy?
speaker3: am i part of your props?
speaker2: no... you're the real thing.

speaker1: alec was the first. there were other guys, in high school, boys -- but he was the first love of my life. i always wondered if alec and i hadn't ended up in the same dorm -- well, i guess i would have just found someone else. and so would he. 
speaker2: alec had the luck of geography. whatever we say about alec we'll regret tomorrow.
speaker1: what do you think about our relationship. as an outsider?
speaker2: oooo -- dangerous question.
speaker2: sometimes i think i just hang around with you and alec 'cause. well, since he introduced me to you...
speaker1: kevin.
speaker2: and i think the reason i'm not interested in other women... is 'cause i...
speaker1: kevin. all this time right in front of us. how could i have been so blind?
speaker2: leslie, we won't even remember this tomorrow.

speaker1: it is tomorrow. 
speaker2: i love you... i've always loved you.
speaker2: aaaaah. ouch...
speaker3: no... it's in front.

speaker1: which one is yours? i always forget. 
speaker2: so do i. you wanna go someplace?
speaker1: do i. i've had a day.
speaker2: i've had a year.
speaker1: where do you want to go?
speaker2: the bars are all closed. how 'bout your place?
speaker1: we're going to my place. good.
speaker2: jules, you've really grown up into a fine-looking woman.
speaker1: i don't feel very fine-looking.
speaker2: i've been meaning to ask you something all night. what do you have on under that skirt?
speaker1: you should know.
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 81.

speaker1: come on -- gimme some of those beautiful lips. 
speaker2: billy... enough!
speaker3: who says?
speaker2: i say.
speaker3: yeah, well, i bet you really won't have so much to say with me in your mouth.
speaker2: i'm serious, billy. no!!!
speaker2: billy!
speaker3: come and get 'em.
speaker2: you shit!!!

speaker1: ultimate... 
speaker1: ultimate!!

speaker1: i really needed you tonight. 
speaker2: nell, just get back in the jeep and assume the missionary position.
speaker1: you break my heart. you break everybody's heart.

speaker1: goddammitt... 
speaker2: he searches the dashboard frantically.
speaker1: heater. where's the defroster???
speaker1: dear mr. iacoccoa... i recently had the misfortune of using one of your, so-called, new luxury cars in an emergency situation.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: is dale biberman in there?
speaker1: who wants to know?
speaker3: kirby kreager! and who the are you?
speaker4: kirby? what are you doing here?
speaker4: kirby, stop. come inside.
speaker5: you've got no skid chains or snow tires. you've got no traction.
speaker4: kirby, please!
speaker5: you-'re not gonna get out of here tonight. you better come back inside.

speaker1: i'll stay in the car. 
speaker2: he wants to stay in the car.
speaker3: he'll freeze!!!
speaker2: people have died out here.
speaker1: leave me alone. i'm not your responsibility!
speaker3: by driving up here, you've made us responsible for you. now come inside.

speaker1: your clothes should be dry in a few hours. 
speaker2: he's a doctor, isn't he?
speaker1: here are some pajamas.
speaker2: you expect me to wear his pajamas?
speaker1: we'll talk in the morning.

speaker1: kirbo? 
speaker2: no, it's alec.
speaker1: i gave him a key.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: alec has found a beer.
speaker3: i believe you. i want you to know that i believe you and, kev, i'm sorry i hit you. how'd she find out? how long has she known? i've been thinking all night about school... how was always a barometer,'especially, at the fraternity. the more women you got, the more of a man you were... or thought you were... i thought i was.

speaker1: my whole life at school revolved around sex... even after i fell in love with leslie. i always had to be doing better than the next guy... i had my rep. big al... it all started as a game... 
speaker2: ah... i kind of have company.
speaker3: oh jesus... i'm sorry... i never thought. who is it?
speaker2: alec...
speaker3: that fat chick from the party?
speaker2: alec, i'll call you later.
speaker3: just tell me if it's the fat chick...
speaker3: no. no. no... wait a minute... i don't believe it. this could not be real. there is no way this is happening.
speaker4: it happened, alec.
speaker3: not kevin. little kevin.
speaker4: he didn't do it alone, alec.

speaker1: takes a stand. 
speaker2: i know that if we fight, you're going to win. but i'm warning you, i will use every bone in my body, every lamp in this room to make sure i inflict as much damage as possible on you before you bring me down.
speaker3: you're both pathetic. i don't want to see either one of you again, ever. you understand me? you see me on the street, you see me at st. elmo's, just pretend you don't know me.

speaker1: where's'kirby kreager? 
speaker2: he took my new car.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i had no idea it had gone this far. 
speaker2: i gave up school... and my job at st. elmo's... and you never even knew about it. it's kind of funny, isn't it?
speaker1: the reason i didn't know... is because all of this happened
speaker3: between you and you. i could never participate because i never knew what was expected of me. love isn't like this, kirby. it's mutual and reciprocal.
speaker4: okay, she's starting... you better get out of here before it starts snowing again.

speaker1: drive carefully. 
speaker2: wait a minute... i've got to get a picture of you old college chums...

speaker1: 0 he goes into the cabin. dale sees kixbo's pain. 
speaker2: i don't really know you well... but you seem like a fine person .. and i want you to know that i'm flattered by all of this and deep down, i'm sure for a long time, i'll wonder if maybe this somehow isn't my loss.
speaker3: smile.
speaker3: aren't you going to wait for it to develop?
speaker4: dale gets smaller and smaller.

speaker1: she is smaller and smaller. 
speaker2: a kind of win fills his senses.

speaker1: love comes later. marriage, family, the family business -- children carrying on the parents' traditions... that's what... 
speaker2: dad, i have my own work, and i want to get my own apartment.
speaker3: all right, keep your job 'til you get pregnant. howie is a fine boy. you don't need your own apartment.
speaker2: i don't love howie, dad. i love billy!
speaker3: billy on the roof? let me tell you something, he's a drunk and a lowlife. how could you love such a person?
speaker2: he's talented and confused and he's not a lowlife. and i love him because he's alive! he's the most alive person i've ever known.
speaker3: when he looks at you, all he sees is u money. he doesn't give a about you...
speaker3: i'm warning you, young lady. you marry him -- no 'card-a-terias' !
speaker2: i hate you, dad. i really hate you now.

speaker1: some place this is. your car fixed? 
speaker2: i got a personal letter from lee lacocco... they fixed everything for nothing.
speaker1: good... so you like the car?
speaker2: it's a great car, dad, but i can't keep it. i don't feel right about driving a car like that and working with people who can't afford to eat.
speaker1: keep the car... you and howie are going to need it.
speaker2: i'm giving howie back, too.
speaker1: wendy, listen to me. you think i wanted to marry your mother? i was pressured into it. she was pressured into it.
speaker2: i don't love howie.

speaker1: eventually, mr. beamish comes running after her. 
speaker2: wendy...
speaker3: hi, wendy.

speaker1: wendy... wait. oh, my my leg! 
speaker2: don't worry, wendy... we got the old pervert covered.
speaker3: that's my father. you leave him alone... that's my father!
speaker4: sit down, daddy... sit down.
speaker1: see this... a feminist came into the pennsylvania avenue store this morning -- called me a 'sexist' and a 'pig' and tore the card up. i said 'listen, we got naked men on cards, too, with their pee-pees hanging out... it's fair! we got men and we got women!'

speaker1: daddy, i'm sorry. i'm sorry i said i hated you... 
speaker2: that's okay. i'm sorry about howie. you don't have to marry anybody you don't want to marry and if you want to move out, well, move out... but listen...
speaker2: .. don't judge your mother and me so hard... and the way we raised you and your sisters. there's no training to be a parent, you know. you're learning every day on the job.
speaker1: there's no training to be me either, dad. i'm learning on the job, too.

speaker1:  
speaker1: i especially took off work because i thought you wouldn't be here.

speaker1: i'm sick. 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: just sickness... .. hey, you can't take the pretenders' first album. that's mine.
speaker2: i bought it.
speaker1: you did not!!!
speaker1: you can have all the billy joels.
speaker2: i'm taking 'thriller' and mahler's ninth.
speaker1: kevin is so fond of mahler.
speaker2: i've moved in with jules.
speaker1: how nice. roomies again...
speaker1: . no springsteen is leaving this house. but you can have all the w carly simons.
speaker2: you got those for me on valentine's day. when there were still valentines around here.
speaker1: you ran out on this relationship.
speaker2: i didn't run out on anything. you ran out.
speaker1: you kevin!

speaker1: you manyl 
speaker2: nameless, faceless manyl
speaker3: oh, i feel much better now.
speaker2: you're not taking the police so just forget it!
speaker4: i didn't kevin. i was confused and angry... and i care for him deeply.
speaker2: no more albums! that's it... get your clothes and give me the keys.
speaker3: i don't believe this is happening to us.
speaker2: wasted love. i wish i could get it all back.

speaker1: this is so exciting. your first byline... 
speaker2: i'm sure i'll be back doing obits tomorrow.
speaker1: oh, no. you're going to really attract some attention with this...
speaker1: did somebody actually say 'i believe in the golden rule, whoever's got the gold makes the rule'?
speaker2: sort of. leslie, i couldn't write anything of any meaning until you.
speaker1: kevin.
speaker3: don't you two ever use a bed?
speaker1: let me show jules your piece.

speaker1: kevin has his first byline. 
speaker2: wonderful. brilliant... ha ha...
speaker1: no, it's the other piece... jules...
speaker2: got to fly. forrester, the magnificent animal, is waiting. did the hospital call? is my stepmonster dead yet?
speaker1: jules, i'd like to meet him.
speaker2: i'll have him wave up to you.
speaker1: doesn't she seem out of control to you?
speaker3: since the day i met her.

speaker1: jules' boss and lover... international banking seems to be getting sexier. 
speaker2: speaking of which...
speaker1: kevin, i've been thinking.
speaker2: me, too, and i don't like to count my cornish hens before they hatch, but i do think i'll be getting a raise. and i was thinking we could get a place together.
speaker1: kevin.
speaker2: i know it's fast. but i also know i love you.
speaker1: i don't think you do love me.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i mean we love each other as friends. but... kevin, you were sitting on all these incredible feelings... all tied up in that box with my pictures in desperate need of a love affair. and me... well, i needed to break the alec habit... and it's only natural i would turn to you in my confusion. but this doesn't feel real. it feels manufactured.
speaker2: it's me, isn't it?
speaker1: are you kidding? you're a little ã¢â€â¢ miracle.

speaker1: but not a big miracle like alec. 
speaker2: oh, alec was the big miracle for a long time... but i think i'd like to try life without any miracles for a while.
speaker1: well, having your first byline, and losing the love of your life in the same night has a certain 'the gods must be laughing at me' feeling.
speaker2: i'm not the love of your life.
speaker1: who says?
speaker2: i say.
speaker1: but you're a girl, what do you know?

speaker1: i don't think i need the eggs anymore. dale biberman gave me enough cholesterol for a lifetime. you were right all along... love stinks. 
speaker2: i've had second thoughts. intimacy is dangerous and shattering... but ultimately necessary.
speaker3: but, kevin, i used to wait outside her house,. ring the bell and then when she'd come to the window i'd run away. just to get a glimpse of her.
speaker2: the night leslie gave me the kiss- off, i a black three times.
speaker3: not naomi, from our corner?
speaker2: naomi from our corner.
speaker3: i think you better go to the doctor and get some shots.
speaker2: i used a rubber. she put it on me with her mouth.

speaker1: i always thought we'd be friends forever. 
speaker2: forever got a lot shorter suddenly.
speaker3: no, as soon as i get back in school, i'm going to work part- time for a law firm. did you know there are as many people in law school as there are practicing lawyers?
speaker2: sounds familiar.
speaker3: how'd she put the rubber on with her mouth?

speaker1: yes, may i help you? 
speaker2: i want to see forrester davidson jr.
speaker1: i am forrester davidson jr.
speaker2: well, there must be some mistake. i've come to see julianna van patten and they told me she doesn't work here anymore.

speaker1: did you forget one of your albums? 
speaker2: i'm sorry to bother you here. it's jules. after she left for work this morning, the finance company came and took away all her furniture, her jeep, everything they could get their hands on... i couldn't reach her so i finally went over to her office. alec -- she was fired three weeks ago! all this time, she's been pretending to go to work every day , and pretending to be still having this affair with her boss. and she's been doing a lot of coke .. well, anyway, i confronted her at the apartment, and at first she denied everything, but then she went crazy -- and now she's locked herself in the apartment and she won't let me back in... i'm really worried about her.
speaker2: alec, please. i need your help.

speaker1: alec knocks on the door with leslie. 
speaker2: jules, open the door.

speaker1: jules, remember my junior year when i went cold turkey on cigarettes? you sat up with me all night in the commons room feeding me emergency carrots...? 
speaker2: jules, if you don't let us in, we're going to have to call the police.
speaker3: i'll throw myself out the window before they get through the door.
speaker2: not my greatest ploy.
speaker1: jules, remember the time i flunked art history and i was trying to drink myself to death...
speaker4: how is she?
speaker2: she just threatened to throw herself out the window. kevin and alec have a moment of awkwardness.
speaker2: the fire escape!

speaker1: jules, what are you doing? you'll freeze... 
speaker2: to death. exactly!
speaker3: leslie pounds on the door.
speaker4: jules, you're really scaring me now.
speaker5: the whole country is.falling apart, but these five bars are made perfectly.
speaker1: we need something that cuts through metal.
speaker5: or an experienced thief.
speaker6: i'll find billy.
speaker5: i was kidding.

speaker1: billy's working at the big chevron station on michigan. he must have a hacksaw or something... 
speaker2: billy is working in a gas station???
speaker3: he needed the money.
speaker2: i saw your article.
speaker3: yeah, well, yesterday's editorial achievement is today's garbage wrapper, right...?
speaker2: you little shit!!!
speaker4: alec, no!!!

speaker1: my notes! 
speaker2: you won't need any more notes on the meaning of life.
speaker1: upside-down,
speaker3: i'm kinda betting on you not doing it, al... think of your political career.
speaker4: alec, stop iit!
speaker4: alec!!!

speaker1: after all i've done for you. 
speaker2: i feel i've done a lot for you, too, al... so pull me up and we'll call it even.
speaker1: what you did for me was take the woman i was going to marry.
speaker3: alec, stop it right now!
speaker4: looks pretty ultimate up there...

speaker1: he slowly pulls kevin onto the fire escape. 
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker3: hey! help.
speaker2: oh, my jules, please, it's so cold.
speaker4: very noble how you ran up here to save your lover.
speaker2: he's not my lover. jules, listen...
speaker4: 
speaker2: i have never lied to you once since the day i met you... you cocky shithead.

speaker1: alec knows it's the truth. 
speaker2: hang on, jules. we all love you.
speaker2: your breath, your breath is so sweet.
speaker3: leslie, i'm sorry. i'm so profoundly sorry.
speaker4: blowtorch, anyone?
speaker5: give it to me.
speaker6: do not hand him a blowtorch!
speaker7: the pounding jolts jules.

speaker1: you want some coffee, ron? 
speaker2: you know, until today i thought gay people were nuts.

speaker1: then what happened? 
speaker2: that was it... we came out of the bedroom and had coffee with everybody.
speaker1: you saved her life.
speaker2: let's not get dramatic.
speaker3: so, when did you get so sane?
speaker2: when i realized how insane i've been all this time tryin' to be like alec and leslie... and you and kevin... i'm not part of this post-college georgetown life; marriage and jobs. felicia and melody'll be better off without me.
speaker3: did she get remarried already?
speaker2: three or four weeks...

speaker1: i was thinkin' of hanging around tryin'to be one of those in-the- neighborhood dads... but it would just confuse everybody... especially me. new york'll suit me fine. if somebody'll let me play sax. 
speaker1: this is great.
speaker2: i'll tell you what's great. last night i woke up in the middle of the night and made myself a peanut butter and jelly sandwich... and you know it was my kitchen, and my refrigerator and my apartment . and it was the best peanut butter and jelly sandwich i've ever had in my life.
speaker2: so you're goin', huh...?
speaker1: so, are you still a virgin?
speaker2: why is my sexual status so important to you?
speaker1: have i abused our relationship too much? or could i be so bold... as to ask you for a going-away present...?

speaker1: need someone to blow on your hands? 
speaker1: did you know that i.always wanted to make you coffee? i tried once -- when you were in the shower -- but it didn't turn out right, so i threw it out and cleaned everything up so you wouldn't know. i don't like doing things i'm not good at -- like making coffee and saying i'm sorry...
speaker1: leslie, i'm sorry.
speaker2: alec, this is soup.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: this is soup.
speaker2: i love you.
speaker2: we need time.
speaker1: i know.
speaker1: st. elmo's fire - rev. 10/11/84 116a.
speaker3: kirbo comes running over.
speaker4: the bus is leaving.
speaker5: 'bye, baby.

speaker1: she whispers into his ear. 
speaker2: go ultimate.
speaker3: i'll keep in touch.
speaker2: no, you won't.
speaker4: watch him pull away.

