speaker1: you know, when you fire somebody you have to stick to your guns. 
speaker2: and i didn't tell dupree that i'd give you your job back... all i said was that i'd be glad to talk to you if you said the right thing... do you have something to say? a stream of cigarette smoke snakes through as the back of a man's head and shoulder nudges in and shifts nervously.
speaker3: mr. giacomo, when one of the white guys has come off a double shift and says he's too tired to work overtime, you don't fire him.
speaker2: fella, what'd i tell ya? if you're not willing to give a little extra, champion can't use you.

speaker1: now... do... you... have... something... to say? 
speaker2: i want my job back, mr. giacomo. i need to work and i need a good job.
speaker1: is that all?
speaker2: no, that's not all... i need money so that i can pay my mortgage and eat... i need a house to live in and a place to raise children... i need to buy clothes so i can--
speaker1: i'm sorry, fella, but i gotta get back to work...
speaker2: ezekiel, mr. giacomo.
speaker1: hunh?
speaker2: my name is ezekiel... ezekiel rawlins.

speaker1: hey, watch the marble! dammit, what'd i tell you? 
speaker2: joppy, how much they payin' out there at mcdonell douglas?
speaker1: i don't know. don't it say--
speaker1: easy, come on over here. this here's somebody i want ya to meet... come on. this here's a friend of mine.
speaker1: yeah, easy. this here's mr.
speaker3: you can call me dewitt, easy.

speaker1: how ya doin'? 
speaker2: mr. albright and me goes back to before the war when i was still in the fight game.
speaker3: ever seen this guy fight...? any time joppy stepped in the ring you knew you were gonna see some real knock-down-drag-out- fisticuffs... where you from, easy?
speaker1: houston.
speaker3: houston... joppy's hometown.
speaker3: so i hear you need a job.
speaker2: aw yeah, easy always tryin' to do better. got his high school certificate from night school. he's threatenin' up on some college. and he's one of the few colored men around here who owns his own house. shoot, he pays a mortgage every month just like a white man.
speaker3: property owner, hunh?

speaker1: if you need a job, drop by this address at seven tonight. 
speaker2: what kind of work you do?
speaker1: i do favors... i do favors for friends. drop by.
speaker2: who the is that, joppy?
speaker3: just somebody i know... a bidness man.
speaker2: what kinda business?
speaker3: oh, i don't ask him all that. he comes in here every so often looking for somebody to do a little job for him... he pays good.
speaker2: in other words, he's a gangster.
speaker3: i didn't say that... but if there's a dollar laying in the street i don't think he'll let a little dirt stop him from picking it up. if you worried about making that house note this month, maybe you wanna pay him a call. all them pretty girls you be with ain't gonna buy you a house.

speaker1: sound like he just wants you to keep your eyes open for somebody... he'll pay you whether you see anything or not... if it was me i'd take that man's money and go on about my bidness... ain't nothin' to worry about. easy is still suspicious, but can't take his eyes off the card. 
speaker2: when somebody tells me "don't worry," i usually look down to see if my fly is open... i noticed albright didn't bother to pay for his drink.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i'm looking for, uh...
speaker1: we only take deliveries between nine and six...
speaker2: no, no... i...
speaker1: yes, we do! now you'd better leave.
speaker2: uh... albright!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm here to see mr. albright.
speaker1: where's your delivery?
speaker2: i have an appointment -- i'm supposed to meet him.

speaker1: did he give you a note to come in here after hours? 
speaker1: well, did he? because if he didn't--
speaker2: forget it, man. next time i see him i'll just tell him you wouldn't let me in.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker1: across that way to the left and down the stairs...

speaker1: hey, man! what's wrong with you? 
speaker2: mr. rawlins, put your hands up a little from your sides, please.
speaker1: keep your hands to yourself. i don't let no man feel on me like that.
speaker2: don't worry, manny. he's okay. just a little shaky. let him know.
speaker3: easy.
speaker2: he doesn't want us to touch him.
speaker3: leave it, shariff. i just wanted to make sure he was solo.
speaker4: you're the boss.
speaker3: you guys can go now. easy and i have some business.

speaker1: have a seat, mr. rawlins. 
speaker2: your friends, hunh?
speaker1: like you, easy. i need a little help? i give 'em a call... drink?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: one thing i like about working for myself... i always have a bottle on the table... you wanna drink with me? fine. you don't? door's right behind you... joppy tells me you're a war hero... said you went in with patton.
speaker1: so, you want the job?
speaker2: depends on what kind of job. i don't want to get mixed up in nothing.
speaker1: walk out the door in the morning, easy, and you're mixed up in something. only thing that matters is if you're mixed up to the top or not.

speaker1: i mean i don't wanna get mixed up with the law... 
speaker2: neither one of us wants to get mixed up in that. that's just rich people trying to keep me and you in our place.
speaker2: i'm looking for somebody for a friend.

speaker1: she leave him? 
speaker2: evidently... you know how it is with women, easy... happens to the best of us...
speaker1: i ain't never heard of her before. i wouldn't know how to find a woman like that.
speaker2: that's a shame.

speaker1: see, daphne has a predilection for the company of negroes. she likes jazz and pigs feet and dark meat, know what i mean. 
speaker2: so you think she might be down in watts.
speaker1: i'm sure of it. but i can't go looking for her myself because i'm not of the right persuasion, so to speak. i've been asking joppy for over a week, but all he could do was introduce me to you.
speaker2: what do you want me to do?
speaker1: just get a location on her. mr.
speaker2: that's all.
speaker1: that's all.
speaker1: one hundred dollars, and i pay in advance.
speaker2: i just have to tell you where she is?
speaker1: that's right. and keep it, you know, confidential...

speaker1: hey, colored brother. i need you to do somethin' for me-- 
speaker2: go on. what'd i tell you about hair-assing my customers.
speaker3: i just paid these cops and they still roustin' my customers. well, that's what he gets for being with that white woman.

speaker1: come on, brother help me... 
speaker2: don't worry 'bout him. i rung junior ten minutes ago to come get him.
speaker2: i ain't got nobody tonight but lips and his trio -- holiday came through here last tuesday.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: where's he at?
speaker2: over there. let easy in upstairs and when these cops leave throw his out.
speaker3: hey, junior. what's goin' on?
speaker4: not too much. but stick around.

speaker1: you got a cigarette? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: how do you smoke these things?
speaker2: don't you hafta work tomorrow?
speaker1: naw. i got fired.
speaker2: the last time i heard these fellas playin' tonight was back in houston, the night your ole buddy mouse had to pull me up off your ass.
speaker1: that's the way you remember it, hunh?
speaker2: hell, that's the way it was.
speaker2: when you gonna admit that you helped mouse kill old man navrochet?
speaker1: aw, man, get off that. i ain't had nothin' to do with that.

speaker1: boy, it's happenin' tonight. 
speaker2: i don't pay them white girls no mind.
speaker1: yeah... i bet you don't.
speaker2: that's right. just like you didn't help mouse kill his stepfather.
speaker1: go on, man.
speaker2: hey, easy. did you help him kill his stepbrother, too?

speaker1: alphonso jenkins! 
speaker2: hey, easy!
speaker1: hey, man, you seen a girl named dahlia or somethin'... white girl supposed to be somethin' to look at.

speaker1: naw, but if i see her i'm gonna keep her to myself. 
speaker2: hey, baby.
speaker3: hey, rita! what do they see in you?
speaker3: hey, lewis. gimme a couple glasses and a pail of ice and send a quart of bourbon over there to odell's table.
speaker4: burn it up.
speaker5: easy stops at odell's table.
speaker3: hey, odell.
speaker6: easy.
speaker3: how's it going tonight?

speaker1: well... it's goin' alright. it sure is goin'. 
speaker2: easy rawlins, is that you? easy looks up to see
speaker3: you ain't jumped outta no windows yet?
speaker4: not yet, dupree.
speaker3: miss you down at the plant... you know coretta, don't ya?
speaker4: hey, coretta, how are ya?
speaker1: oh, my goodness.
speaker5: could we sit down with y'all?
speaker4: sure. sure.
speaker3: you know benny just wants you to say you're sorry, easy. and he'll give you your job back.
speaker4: i'm a sorry man, all right. any man without his paycheck is sorry.

speaker1: i got it, easy. your money ain't no good up in here. 
speaker2: naw, dupree. this one's mine--
speaker1: you sure? you the one outta work.
speaker3: and you're the one ain't never got no money.
speaker1: aw, baby... get us another couple glasses.
speaker2: either one of y'all seen a white girl named dahlia or somethin' with a 'd'?
speaker1: hey, coretta got a new job at the phone company.

speaker1: hey, you goin' home, odell? 
speaker2: he used to play till the crowed. but that ole don't crow nearly so much now...
speaker1: think i'm gonna head out.
speaker2: you be sorry if you go.
speaker1: i think i'd be more sorry if i stay...
speaker2: daphne sleep by now. you can't get none of that tonight.
speaker2: you been telling everybody dahlia, but her name is daphne.
speaker1: you know her?

speaker1: throwed him outta his place, 'cause he couldn't pay the rent. i shouldn't even let him sleep here. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: i need a cigarette. 
speaker2: that all you need?
speaker1: coretta, sun catch me tip-toein' out your door and no tellin' what your neighbors say...

speaker1: dupree run through his money, fall asleep on me. and you just gonna walk out on me like i was dog food... 
speaker2: you got a man in the other room... why don't you tell me 'bout your friend daphne?
speaker1: why you keep askin' 'bout her? colored women ain't good enough for you no more?
speaker2: what if he hears somethin'?
speaker1: way he snorin'?

speaker1: oh yeah, daddy. you hittin' my spot! oh yeah... yeah! 
speaker1: i can't give up that much love, daddy, not the way things is.

speaker1: what things? 
speaker2: you know, dupree's right there in the next room.
speaker1: forget about him! you got me goin', coretta!
speaker2: but it ain't right, easy. here i am doin' this right in the next room and all you doin' is nosin' after my friend daphne...
speaker1: daphne? oh, yeah... i ain't after her, baby. that's just a job.
speaker2: what job?
speaker1: man wants me to find her.
speaker2: what man?
speaker1: who cares, what man? i don't want nobody but you...
speaker2: but daphne's my friend--

speaker1: oh, baby. oh, daddy, you hittin' my spot! oh, yeah... 
speaker2: i went on hittin' her spot until just before sun-up.

speaker1: write me and tell me when's a good time." aw 
speaker1: the letter from mouse was worrying me in more ways than one... all i had to do was call albright to earn the hundred dollars i already had in my pocket... but the last time i got money that easy i got it from mouse -- fifty dollars -- and the next day i had to join the army to leave town.

speaker1: drive to the trainyard, easy! 
speaker2: this ain't your friend's car?
speaker3: just drive this sumbitch!

speaker1: where you goin', sophie? 
speaker2: back to texas... it's too fast for me out here. she waves and keeps on trucking.
speaker1: get away from there!

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: mr. rawlins, i've been expecting your call.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: i hope you have good news for me. 
speaker2: mr. albright, is that you?
speaker3: sure is, easy. what's shakin'?
speaker2: i got what you want. she's with--
speaker3: hold on to that, easy. i like to look a man in the face when we do business. meet me at the fisherman's pier in malibu at the hamburger stand in an hour.
speaker2: uh... i don't know about that mr. albright -- mr. albright?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: it's pretty out here, huh?
speaker3: yeah. it's all right.
speaker2: i'm from des moines in iowa. where are you from?
speaker3: huh?... uh... texas...
speaker2: do they have an ocean in texas?
speaker3: the gulf, they have the gulf.
speaker3: i think they're looking for you.
speaker4: who cares? my sister brought me 'cause my parents made her. all she wants to do is make out with herman and smoke cigarettes.
speaker5: hey, you! what are you doing?

speaker1: leave him alone, herman! we were just talking! 
speaker2: you were, huh? we don't need you talking to our women.
speaker3: hey! what's wrong?
speaker2: nigger's trying to pick up barbara.
speaker1: leave him alone! we were just talking about the ocean!
speaker4: barbara!
speaker3: hey, fella, what's wrong with you?
speaker5: i don't want no trouble.
speaker3: you already got trouble, boy.
speaker5: listen... i was just being polite.
speaker2: no, you weren't. you were talkin' about the ocean!
speaker6: excuse me.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i want to see brains. i want you to die for me.
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir.
speaker2: the question is: "are you sorry enough?"
speaker1: yessir.
speaker2: then prove it... show him... get down on your knees and his peter.
speaker3: i think he got the point--
speaker2: you heard me.
speaker2: son of a gun. you were gonna do it, weren't you?

speaker1: sick bastard. 
speaker1: get out of here. you call the cops, i'll kill ya!
speaker1: i don't think they'd dare call the cops. but it'll cost me a few bucks if they do.
speaker1: what you got, easy?
speaker2: you sure no harm is gonna come to that woman 'cause of me?
speaker1: course not. mr. carter wants to buy her a gold ring and live happily ever after -- what do ya got?
speaker2: woman told me she's with a man named frank green.
speaker1: where?

speaker1: he's got an apartment at the skyler arms on skyler and eighty-third. 
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: frank's a gangster. a hijacker... liquor and cigarettes. he's real good with a knife.
speaker2: ever seen him in action?
speaker1: naw. i just heard about him.
speaker2: here's another hundred.
speaker2: buy ya a burger, easy?
speaker1: no thanks, mr. albright.
speaker2: how come you let those boys get around you like that? war hero should have been able to pick 'em off one by one before they got you against the rail.
speaker1: i don't kill children.

speaker1: mr. rawlins. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: mr. rawlins, i'm miller and this is my partner, mason.
speaker3: we want you to come with us.
speaker2: where?
speaker4: you'll see.
speaker2: you arresting me?
speaker4: you'll see. and he starts pulling easy toward the street.
speaker2: i got a right to know why you're taking--

speaker1: you got 'im, huh, miller? 
speaker2: yeah, we got him coming home. nothing on 'im.

speaker1: ezekiel rawlins. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: we can take off the cuffs if you wanna cooperate.

speaker1: i'm cooperating. 
speaker2: where were you this morning at about five a.m.?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker3: he means--
speaker3: --this morning.
speaker1: i don't know... i was out drinkin' and i helped carry a friend home. i could've been on my way home... i don't know... i didn't look at a clock...
speaker3: he didn't look at a clock.
speaker2: you were drinkin' down on eighty- ninth and central... at an illegal club called john's, weren't you?
speaker2: you may as well answer 'cause you got bigger troubles than us bustin' an illegal bar, ezekiel.
speaker1: what do you mean? what's goin' on?

speaker1: means we can take your black out behind the station and put a bullet in your head. 
speaker2: now. what time did you leave coretta james' house this morning?
speaker3: i guess about five... five- thirty...
speaker1: sit down.
speaker3: why, i'm gonna sit down and you keep trying to knock me down?
speaker2: did you go back and see miss james later in the day?
speaker3: no, sir.
speaker2: did you and dupree brouchard have words over miss james?
speaker3: huh?
speaker1: you heard 'im. did you two argue over coretta james?
speaker3: naw. he was asleep.
speaker2: she went to sleep too, ezekiel. but she won't be waking up...

speaker1: where'd you go when you left miss james' house? 
speaker2: you heard him, where'd you go?
speaker3: i went home with a hangover...
speaker1: get up slow... real slow or you know what's gonna happen.
speaker2: okay. let's take him out back.
speaker1: no. let's go.
speaker2: bullshit, i'm gonna blow his--
speaker1: let's go!
speaker2: 

speaker1: cruises up behind and drives alongside. 
speaker2: hey, you! ezekiel rawlins!
speaker3: ezekiel, hold on.
speaker3: come on, fella. somebody in the back wants to talk to you.
speaker4: i don't have time right now.
speaker3: jump in. we'll take you. my boss wants to talk to you.

speaker1: i can see that the police roughed you up a bit... that's a terrible practice of theirs which has to change, mr. rawlins... has to change. 
speaker1: she was beaten. and died from a heavy blow to the back of the head, mr. rawlins.
speaker1: the evening's events have caught my adopted son and i quite off guard... my household was asleep when we got the call that the police had a suspect in coretta james' murder... did you know that she was a friend of mine, mr.
speaker2: no i didn't, mr. teran.

speaker1: oh, you know who i am? 
speaker2: i read the papers. you're runnin' for mayor.
speaker1: i am the next mayor, mr. rawlins... and luckily for you, a friend of the negro... when i arrived at the station i knew right off that you were being improperly detained as is coretta's boyfriend, dupree brouchard. it's this sort of thing that my administration will not tolerate, mr. rawlins. absolutely will not... he sits back in his seat self righteously and offers a nod of assurance and awaits easy's gratitude... then after a moment...
speaker1: yes... coretta answered phones for a while in my campaign office on 103rd and western. in fact my people got her a job in the phone company. so when i heard what had happened i got out of bed immediately, personally because of my concern... was anyone there with you mr. rawlins besides mr. dupree brouchard?... any... other friends of coretta's?
speaker2: no, sir...
speaker1: no young lady perhaps?
speaker2: nobody...
speaker1: of course not, mr. rawlins. and why should you tell a man whom you've only just met. but, believe me, mr. rawlins. you can trust me.

speaker1: there was no one else. 
speaker2: well don't worry, mr. rawlins... i won't tolerate your being harassed... you or any of my constituency -- i was a city councilman in the watts area for two terms with a large contingent of colored -- i value all of my supporters equally... humble though they may be -- where can we drop you, mr. rawlins?
speaker1: you can let me out here.
speaker2: are you sure, mr. rawlins? this must be quite out of your way.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker2: norman, pull the car over.

speaker1: mr. rawlins, may i offer you cab fare? 
speaker2: no thanks.

speaker1: you be sorry if you go... i can't give up that much love, daddy, not the way things is. 
speaker1: oh yeah, daddy. you hittin' my spot... oh yeah... oh yeah...
speaker1: oh, that's just too good, easy. oh daddy... oh yeah...
speaker1: oh, baby. oh, daddy, yeah... oh yeah!! oh yea-a-h!!

speaker1: huh? 
speaker2: hello? is this mr. rawlins?
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: daphne... daphne monet...
speaker3: you're looking for me.
speaker3: i think you should come and talk to me, mr. rawlins... alone.
speaker1: look, it's late--
speaker3: mr. rawlins, coretta has been killed...
speaker3: and if you don't want any trouble from the police then you'll come... and you won't tell anyone that you're coming.
speaker1: now wait a minute, daphne. i don't know nothin' about all this stuff...
speaker3: i'm at the sunridge motel on 112th and grand, room 102.

speaker1: mr. rawlins? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: please come in.

speaker1: would you like a drink? 
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker1: please sit down.

speaker1: what happened to you? have you been fighting? 
speaker2: why don't you just tell me what you want?
speaker1: i should be asking you that question. why have you been asking about me?
speaker2: i heard about you. fellas at john's said you were something to see.
speaker1: so...? you've found me.
speaker2: uh... yeah... guess i have. but you got a boyfriend i don't want no part of... frank green.
speaker1: you can stop pretending, mr. rawlins. i know someone hired you to look for me. in fact i had to pay coretta not to tell you where i was... you know how coretta is... she told me you two became 'good friends' yesterday... i talked to her this morning before she died. i... uh... need to go across town to see someone. it's very important... i can't seem to reach him by phone. i'm afraid i'd better have someone go with me.

speaker1: uh... miss monet-- 
speaker2: call me daphne.
speaker1: daphne--
speaker2: i can understand why you'd be nervous... because i threatened you with coretta... i'm very sorry, but i couldn't think of any other way to get you to come.
speaker1: i can't -- why don't you ask frank?
speaker2: he's out of town -- i... i'm willing to pay you.
speaker1: that's nice of you but, see, i'm not really a detective--
speaker2: --i know that.
speaker1: i was just hired to ask around to try to find you for a man--
speaker2: i know all about that, mr. rawlins.
speaker1: but this is a gettin' a little out of hand--
speaker2: --mr. rawlins--
speaker1: --easy.

speaker1: easy... if you don't help me, then i'll call the police and tell them that you were with coretta before she died and that you've been after me too. 
speaker2: you'd do that?
speaker1: yes, i would. i don't want to but i would.
speaker1: please let me pay you.
speaker2: no. i can't do that.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i don't want no part of all this.
speaker1: please, i'll pay you twenty dollars.
speaker2: no dice.
speaker1: thirty... or even more. name your price.
speaker1: go ahead. there's gotta be something that you want.

speaker1: what? are you afraid i'll yell or something? 
speaker2: uh, miss monet... daphne, i'm sorry but i really better be goin'.
speaker1: easy, don't touch that door-- he opens it and

speaker1: crazy assed broad! what the are you doing?! 
speaker2: i'm really very sorry. i really am.
speaker2: i didn't want to do this but... shall we?

speaker1: they must not have seen us that well... frank and i have been pulled over so many times i thought-- she catches herself and looks over at easy. 
speaker1: easy, i'm sorry... don't be mad at me.
speaker1: come on. she tries to touch his arm and he pulls away.
speaker1: you really hate me, don't you?
speaker2: how much further is it?
speaker1: around the next bend... you remind me of frank when he gets angry.
speaker2: ain't nothin' about me like frank.
speaker1: your jaw sets just like his when--

speaker1: i don't get no kick outta risking my life for some white woman's entertainment. 
speaker2: just park behind the studebaker.

speaker1: did you bring a gun or something? 
speaker2: what? no.
speaker1: easy, that's not very smart. everybody carries a weapon now a days.
speaker2: well then where's yours?
speaker1: search me sometime. you'll find it.
speaker2: 

speaker1: mr. mcgee... 
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: daphne!

speaker1: hey, wait a minute! 
speaker1: 

speaker1: easy. 
speaker2: what you doin' in my house, man?
speaker1: i expected you to be home, so manny used a screwdriver on the door.

speaker1: you got no excuse to be breakin' into my house -- what if i broke into your place? 
speaker2: i'd tear your head out by its root.
speaker1: so what do you want?
speaker2: where have you been this time of morning, easy?
speaker1: i went to see a girl. don't you get none, mr. albright?
speaker2: i didn't come here to play, boy. you got my money in your pocket and we've been over at that address waitin' all night for frank green and now we've found out that he moved from there over a year ago.
speaker1: so what do you want me to do about it? you don't think i did my job. i give you the money back.
speaker2: do you believe in easy? 'cause i'm curious to see if death is any different for a religious man.

speaker1: where? 
speaker2: she called me. had me drive up to the hollywood hills.
speaker1: how'd she know about you?
speaker2: i guess coretta... the girl that told me about daphne and frank green.
speaker1: why didn't you call me?
speaker2: i couldn't. she threatened to tell the cops that i had killed coretta...
speaker1: where is she?
speaker2: she took off.
speaker1: where is she?
speaker2: i don't know! while i was looking at the body she split.
speaker1: uh-hunh.

speaker1: you call the cops? 
speaker2: i tried my best to keep in the speed limit. that's all i did.
speaker1: what'd she do, take his car?
speaker2: hunh?
speaker1: mcgee. did she take his car?
speaker2: uh... yeah...
speaker1: where'd you pick her up at?
speaker2: she left that place--
speaker1: --write it down!
speaker1: get me some whiskey, easy.
speaker2: get it yourself... bottle's in the cabinet.

speaker1: well, i'll be get us a drink, manny... easy, you're a brave man. i need a brave man working for me... but you gotta find frank green, so he can lead us to her. 
speaker2: no, thanks, mr. albright. people are gettin' killed all around me... you never said anything about all this...
speaker1: easy, you're connectable to two murders. you'll do whatever i tell you to do.
speaker1: now you got three days to find him. and you make sure you count 'em right. he walks out the screen door with manny and shariff following.

speaker1: i needed help... albright didn't flinch at hearing that coretta was dead and he seemed to know all about richard mcgee too... 
speaker2: number please...
speaker1: raymond alexander on...
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: forget about it, operator.

speaker1: hey, easy. 
speaker2: that girl called me last night.
speaker1: what girl is that?
speaker2: the one your friend is lookin' for.
speaker1: uh, huh. that's pretty lucky, hunh?
speaker2: no, joppy... wasn't no luck at all. it was you.
speaker2: you and coretta was the only ones that had my phone number who knew i was lookin' for her. and coretta was busy scammin' daphne so she wouldn't have done it... it was you, man.
speaker1: maybe she looked in the phone book.
speaker2: i ain't in the phone book, joppy...
speaker1: what the you mean, coming up here all mad like you gonna do something?!...

speaker1: you right! coretta's dead! your friend albright is on my ass. the cops done brought me down once -- why didn't you just tell albright your self? 
speaker2: what did i tell you? to just take that man's money! i didn't tell you to do nothin'! i call myself trying to help you save your house... don't come up in here startin' no with me. and he pulls a baseball bat from behind the bar, but easy has pulled his hammer and smacks it down hard, cracking the beveled wood that frames the marble.
speaker2: easy, wait! watch my marble! my uncle left me that when he died!
speaker1: and goddammit, he's about to get it back.
speaker2: let's talk. let's just talk.
speaker1: what you got me into, joppy?!
speaker2: she asked me to help her 'cause i told her that albright was lookin' for her. and i figured i could help you make a few bucks and throw albright off the trail too. she wanted to know something about you so i told her... i guess i must've give her your phone number...
speaker1: where is she, man?

speaker1: i don't know... 
speaker2: don't lie to me, joppy!
speaker1: i ain't lyin'... i don't even know her that good. she just asked me to help her. and she asked me not to tell nobody... i guess 'cause of her and frank green.
speaker2: what's she runnin' from joppy?
speaker1: i swear i don't know. she didn't tell me. i didn't mean to get you into nothin', easy... i just... she just... i mean you seen her, easy... man, she's something else.
speaker2: damn, joppy. is there any white woman that ever gave you the time of day that you wasn't a sucker for?

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: uh... yes. i came to see mr.
speaker1: do you have an appointment?
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: well, i'm sorry, but mr. carter is a very busy man.
speaker2: well, tell him mr. albright sent me, and it's real important.
speaker1: may i ask the nature of your call, mister...?
speaker2: rawlins. but i'm not so sure he'd want me to tell you.
speaker1: i'm quite sure, mr. rawlins, that whatever you know is nothing i can't know as well.
speaker2: okay. well, anyway, tell him i'm here with information about that little chippy of his that dumped him.
speaker1: is this some sort of joke?
speaker3: uh... excuse me...

speaker1: mr. rawlins was it? 
speaker2: yes. mister...
speaker1: baxter. i'll take care of this. why don't you come with me, sir?

speaker1: not very smart talking about mr. 
speaker2: i don't wanna hear it, man. it's too much goin' on for me to give a about what you think is smart.

speaker1: mr. rawlins. 
speaker1: has something happened to daphne?
speaker2: the last time i saw her she looked fine.
speaker1: you saw her?
speaker2: yeah. last night.
speaker1: she's still in town?
speaker2: she was last night.
speaker1: what did she say -- what was she wearing?
speaker2: a blue dress. blue heels.
speaker1: and a pin on her chest?
speaker2: yeah, on the left side.
speaker1: oh yes, that's her. that's her. you know i've never known a woman who could wear perfume so slight that--
speaker2: --mr. carter, mr. carter--
speaker1: what did she say? what did she say?... oh, i'm sorry. brandy?

speaker1: mr. carter. i came here to get some answers. 
speaker2: yes...?
speaker1: i don't know... i'm takin' a helluva chance...
speaker1: i guess it's just that when i'm working for somebody, i wanna know what i'm gettin' myself into...
speaker2: i beg your pardon.
speaker1: well, i'd like to know the real reason why mr. albright hired me.
speaker2: mr. albright?
speaker1: yeah. the man you hired to find daphne.
speaker2: there must be some mistake... i'm sorry, busy... who are you talking about?
speaker1: you didn't hire somebody to find your girlfriend?

speaker1: no... until just now i was sure that she was hundreds of miles away from here... you say someone is looking for her? 
speaker1: someone is looking for her.
speaker2: what's goin' on between you two?
speaker1: uh... i don't know... we were going to be married... we had a fight... uh... that's none of your concern, mr. rawlins.
speaker1: someone's... after her? a mr. albright? and he said he's working for me?
speaker2: yeah... do you know a man named richard mcgee?
speaker1: no... i can't say that i do.
speaker2: why would someone be after her, mr.
speaker1: uh... i can't say -- i don't know...

speaker1: do you think you could find her again? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: it's important, mr. rawlins, for her sake... i'm willing to pay you.
speaker2: mr. carter, why did she leave?
speaker1: i can't tell you any more mr. rawlins -- i'll pay you to find her...
speaker2: okay... a thousand dollars.
speaker1: a thousand dollars?!
speaker2: yeah. i'll take two hundred right now.
speaker1: mr. rawlins. i think you're trying to take advantage of me. but left me inform you that the incumbent mayor and the chief of police eat at my house regularly.
speaker2: good. then they can help us--
speaker1: --no. they can't!
speaker3: i'll have baxter write you out a check.

speaker1: mr. carter, why'd you stop runnin' for mayor? 
speaker2: i'll have baxter write you a check.
speaker1: why is matthew teran looking for her too?
speaker2: baxter will write you a check!!
speaker1: i'll take cash, mr. carter.
speaker2: take it all... just take it all.

speaker1: you the reason why she told me to lay low, hunh. 
speaker2: naw. i got five hundred dollars for you. rich man wants to talk to a white girl you know. daphne...
speaker1: you a dead man--

speaker1: easy, you in there? 
speaker2: want me to kill him?
speaker3: mouse! aw, man naw, it's all right...
speaker2: well, what's happenin'?
speaker2: i'll blow your nose off...
speaker3: no, don't! where's daphne monet?
speaker3: look, if you don't know where she is, maybe we can help each other find her.

speaker1: nigga, you heard him. 
speaker2: no, mouse. don't kill him.
speaker1: huh?... he's busy right now, you gonna have to call back.
speaker2: frank, a rich man she knows is willing to pay a thousand dollars just to talk to her. a thousand bucks, man.
speaker1: easy, lemme try.
speaker1: you better...
speaker1: talk...
speaker1: you stupid--
speaker2: let him go!
speaker1: get out of my way!
speaker2: let him be!

speaker1: you, easy. don't you never grab me when i got a gun in my hand! 
speaker1: look at the blood you done got on my coat. why you wanna go and do that?
speaker1: now we got to find that girl so we can get that money.
speaker2: no, we don't, mouse. i don't need your kinda help or i would've called you.
speaker1: you standing there with a knot on your head the size of a twelve- year-old tittie and you "don't need my kind of help"?
speaker2: this is the same you pulled five years ago when you asked me to drive you out to your stepfather's house, then come to find out you killed him and your stepbrother.
speaker1: aw, easy, that was a long time ago.

speaker1: come on, easy. cut me in on this. i could help you. i let you run the show. i swear i will. he ambles over to easy apologetically and holds easy's shoulders with both hands. 
speaker1: i swear, i ain't gonna do nothin' you don't tell me to do.
speaker2: everything i say?
speaker1: everything you say.

speaker1: who was that called? 
speaker2: i don't know... sound like some white girl.

speaker1: mr. rawlins... we came to ask you a few more questions. 
speaker2: so why don't you just invite us inside... after you.
speaker2: what happened to your head? i don't remember doing all that.

speaker1: been having a party, ezekiel? 
speaker2: you got a lotta cuts and bruises to be an ordinary working stiff.

speaker1: it's looking worse and worse for you, my friend. what do you know about richard mcgee? 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: a dead white man in a cabin in laurel canyon.
speaker3: he hangs out with some of those same friends of yours down on central avenue.
speaker1: he just happened to have a note in his pocket with 'c. james' written on it.
speaker3: any of this making you feel talkative at all, 'cause i'll bet ya six bits to a bottle of that we're looking at a double here... all we need is to place you in the dead man's house.
speaker2: i ain't been there.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: i ain't been in no dead man's house.

speaker1: how 'bout a smoke, ezekiel? 
speaker1: got a light?
speaker1: may i?
speaker1: nice lighter...
speaker1: and we got our print.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker3: oh, hadn't you heard? we found a cigarette lighter in the dead man's house with the killer's fingerprints on it.
speaker2: naw, man. i didn't do it.
speaker3: course you did, we got evidence.
speaker2: i didn't do it. you know i didn't...
speaker1: we know that you know more than you're lettin' on. and now a white man's been killed.

speaker1: now you better tell us what you know, or you're goin' down for the murder of richard mcgee and coretta james. 
speaker2: i don't know nothin'.
speaker1: put the cuffs on. let's take him down. as mason reaches for the cuffs, easy sees mouse peek out from the kitchen doorway then disappear inside.
speaker2: uh, listen! i don't know who did it!
speaker1: but we do...
speaker3: and that's all that counts.
speaker2: dammit, i didn't do it.
speaker1: tell it to the d.a.
speaker2: look, gimme some time to find out.
speaker1: forget it.
speaker2: gimme till tomorrow... tomorrow mornin'...

speaker1: okay. tomorrow morning, that's it. 
speaker2: have a nice evening, ezekiel. and he and miller walk out.

speaker1: i guess you know what would have happened if you had shot them two cops in my house? 
speaker2: yeah. they'd be dead.
speaker1: come on, let's go.

speaker1: i'll tell you on the way. you got the keys? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: before we run out to compton we got one other place to stop by...
speaker1: man, don't you mess with my trees while i'm gone.
speaker1: you heard me. leave my trees alone.
speaker1: i mean it now. don't you mess with my trees!!

speaker1: easy! 
speaker2: what you want?
speaker1: it's private, junior. lemme in.
speaker2: i ain't got time now. i'm tryin' to get some sleep.
speaker3: why don't you open the door, junior, 'fore i have to shoot it down.
speaker2: mouse.
speaker3: open up. we ain't got all night.

speaker1: y'all want a beer? 
speaker2: what ya smokin'? zapatas?

speaker1: this is one of yours, ain't it? 
speaker1: you the only one i know cheap enough to smoke this why'd you kill richard mcgee?
speaker2: huh? what you talkin' 'bout?
speaker1: ain't no time to play, junior. i know you the one killed him.
speaker2: you crazy, man. you crazy!
speaker3: sit down, junior.
speaker1: tell me what happened, junior.
speaker2: i don't know what you talkin' 'bout.
speaker1: well, the police will. when they find out that they got your fingerprints up there in that man's house.
speaker2: what fingerprints? what house?

speaker1: hattie had you pull that man out of john's the night i was there. and he was laying up there dead with the same suit on and a knife in his chest. 
speaker2: i ain't killed nobody.
speaker1: quit lyin', you big ole sweaty- thick headed-cornbread eatin'--
speaker2: you thick-headed, ya self!!
speaker3: sit down, man... 'fore i blow your brains out.
speaker2: what kinda y'all trying to pull here?
speaker3: sit down.
speaker1: you better tell it the way it happened. and maybe i'll forget what i know... otherwise, i'm gonna tell mouse to shoot ya 'cause you know i don't like your and he don't like you either.
speaker3: aw, man...

speaker1: you killed him to take his money, didn't ya? 
speaker2: i don't even know who you--
speaker1: you just had to rob him, didn't ya!
speaker2: i didn't! i didn't touch nothin' in his house!
speaker2: hattie had me take him out to his car. and he say he give me ten dollars to drive him home.
speaker3: i know you took that.
speaker2: hell, yeah. then he asked me about that white girl you was askin' everybody about at the club. and i told him i seen her with coretta...
speaker1: you tell him but you won't tell me.
speaker2: i don't like your ass, easy. and he gimme fifty dollars.
speaker1: fifty dollars? just to tell him you seen her with coretta?
speaker2: naw. to deliver a letter.
speaker1: what letter?

speaker1: how should i know? he just said to give it to her. 
speaker2: and you knew where she was?
speaker1: i didn't say that! i give it to coretta to give it to her the next mornin'!
speaker2: you 'spect me to believe that? why would he trust you to give it to the girl if it was worth fifty dollars?
speaker1: 'cause he had to blow town, fool!
speaker2: why?
speaker1: he didn't say!
speaker2: you better be tellin' the truth. let's go, raymond.
speaker1: i'm tellin' the truth. i ain't killed nobody. that man was alive when i left him!

speaker1: go on. go on in the back. 
speaker2: hey, dupree. been trying to call you.
speaker1: yeah, easy! cops just let me out today. my sister gone to work and i didn't feel much like talking...
speaker3: hey, big man! them pigtails i smell?
speaker1: yeah. lula mae made some 'fore she went to work.

speaker1: why somebody wanna kill her like that? why? 
speaker2: i don't know, dupree... i don't know...

speaker1: did coretta ever say anything to you about a letter she was keeping? 
speaker2: letter? what kinda letter?
speaker1: for that white girl...
speaker2: naw. but i know it was on account of her that coretta got killed.
speaker2: everything between coretta and that daphne was always such a secret... i mean that ole girl didn't think nothin' about two- timin' on frank... she probably 'innerduced' coretta to one of them ole guys she knew... and when he came to the house after coretta... ...he found out she wasn't that kinda woman... cops said she fought him... aw my gawd... fought him 'cause she wouldn't have nobody but me-e-e... he buries his face into his hands and easy throws a sad but frustrated look to mouse.
speaker2: aw gawd, i can't even go to sleep... 'cause i can still see her face that mornin' 'fore i went to work...

speaker1: junior had been by and just left the house... and she came runnin' out to the car carrying her bible... and she said, 'keep this for me, baby.' 
speaker1: police won't even let me go near her house. so it's the only thing i got left from her. it was a sign... i know it was a sign, 'cause she was so religious...
speaker2: it's all right, big man... it's all right...

speaker1: i was as nauseated from fear as i was from what i saw... pictures of a much younger matthew teran and children... innocent, helpless, naked children... 
speaker1: i got it. come on, i think that girl is gonna call again.
speaker2: that dupree is a good man, but he sure can't hold his liquor.
speaker1: you got your sails up pretty far too, raymond.
speaker2: you callin' me drunk?
speaker1: well, you been puttin' it away along with him and--
speaker2: if i was drunk could i do this?
speaker2: ain't a man in texas can outdraw me!
speaker1: put it down.
speaker2: go on.

speaker1: go for your gun. let's see who gets kilt. 
speaker2: i don't have a gun, raymond. come on, let's go.
speaker1: you fool enough to go without a piece then you must wanna be dead.
speaker2: let him go, raymond... he done learned his lesson. if you kill him then he won't have got it.
speaker1: he fool enough to call me out and he ain't even got no gun? i'll kill the motherfucker.
speaker2: let him live, raymond, and he be scared whenever you walk in the room.
speaker1: better be scared. i kill a motherfucker. i kill him!

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: your boyfriend, frank green, threw a surprise party for me.
speaker1: i'm sorry, easy...
speaker1: easy, coretta's boyfriend, dupree, got out of jail today. and...
speaker2: --i already have the pictures...
speaker1: easy, i paid seven thousand dollars for those pictures. they belong to me.
speaker2: oh yeah? matthew teran may have somethin' to say about that.
speaker1: easy, you wouldn't dare.
speaker2: try me. who killed coretta?
speaker1: i don't know -- i'll pay you for them. i'll give you a thousand dollars.
speaker2: you gave richard seven.

speaker1: okay, i'll give you seven. 
speaker2: where'd you get seven thousand dollars from?
speaker1: never mind. i'll give it to you. easy, please. they're very important to me.
speaker2: coretta's life was important to a few people too. what's say you tell me who killed her?
speaker1: easy, honey, i don't know.
speaker2: 'honey?' do frank and carter really fall for that stuff? come on... you and todd carter have a fight and all of a sudden he doesn't wanna be mayor no more... you leave, he's worried but he can't even get his buddies in the police department to help him find you... and now you wanna buy some pictures of teran. why? 'cause he's got some dirt on you.
speaker1: easy, why don't you just take the money!
speaker2: is that what frank told coretta?
speaker2: was she being too nosy? or was she just being coretta and trying to bargain up the price?
speaker1: easy, please. how much do you want?

speaker1: tell me. is frank your husband or your pimp? 
speaker2: easy, put the phone down.
speaker1: why don't you try screaming again? 'cause i bet police like white women with boyfriends who hijack trucks...
speaker2: easy, please.
speaker1: i bet they like pimps, and whores, too, who scam rich white men like carter runnin' for mayor.
speaker2: easy, please, put it down...
speaker1: and i'm sure they like it when these white girls tell their colored men to lay low 'cause they killed a woman over some pictures of another rich white man.
speaker3: number please...
speaker2: frank is my brother.
speaker3: number please?

speaker1: we have different fathers. mine is white... frank doesn't even know that todd and i broke up. so far i've kept him out of all this. 
speaker1: see, coretta's the only one out here in l.a. besides my brother who knew about me... and about a month ago she took a job working for, of all people, matthew teran. she made friends with one of the girls in the office who told her that she'd heard that teran was a pedophile. and coretta got carried away and told her that todd carter was engaged to a colored woman. she was sorry and didn't think it would get to teran... but it did and he got a hold of my birth records.
speaker2: who killed her, daphne?
speaker1: todd and i broke up and i paid a guy for the pictures of teran. but somehow coretta got them.
speaker2: who killed her?
speaker1: it was an accident. coretta and i were still mad at each other. i mean, she threatened to sell teran the pictures.
speaker2: who killed her goddammit!?

speaker1: joppy said she pulled a knife and tried to dump hot water on him... 
speaker1: i didn't mean to hurt anybody... it's just that with the pictures i can--
speaker2: what? marry carter? be white again?
speaker1: don't judge me, easy! do you think i like pretending that i'm someone else? do you know how i've been treated by people, colored and white, when i've tried to live as a colored woman in a colored community. do you have any idea what any colored man whose ever been with me has had to go through? don't you dare judge me!
speaker1: come on, easy. help me.

speaker1: come on, you know it's the right thing to do... you know if things were different what would happen between us. 
speaker2: i'll tell you what can happen between us. you get carter to clear me up from all this and you can have your pictures. that's all that could have ever happened between us.
speaker1: sure, baby. of course, sweetheart...
speaker3: well i'll be you found her.
speaker2: wait a minute, albright.
speaker2: hey!

speaker1: where are the pictures? 
speaker2: i don't know. smack! he backhands her.
speaker1: where are they?
speaker2: i wouldn't tell him! and i won't tell you!
speaker1: sure you will. let's go.
speaker1: what're you doin'? who are we gonna give 'em to cover this hunh?... use your head.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: mouse...
speaker1: hey, easy?
speaker2: get dupree's car. drive it to 78th and central... the butcher shop.
speaker1: you alright?
speaker2: hurry up.

speaker1: come on, joppy. let's go! 
speaker1: you heard me. i'll blow your head off!

speaker1: easy, what the you-- 
speaker2: shut up!
speaker2: drive this thing, mouse!
speaker2: albright's got the girl. he's gonna kill her. where would he take her? and you better get it right.
speaker1: man, i don't--
speaker2: don't fool with me, man!
speaker1: there's a cabin out in malibu on route 9...
speaker2: make a right, mouse!

speaker1: you sure 'bout this place? 
speaker2: i guess so. he's done this kinda thing out there before.
speaker3: easy, what's done got into you?
speaker1: he killed dupree's girlfriend.
speaker3: you lyin'.
speaker1: naw.
speaker3: 
speaker1: mouse! what're you doin'?
speaker1: hey! watch out!
speaker1: mouse, we need him to lead the way! kablaam! this one rips through the roof.

speaker1: mouse, the girl offered me seven thousand dollars for the pictures. 
speaker2: you lyin'!
speaker1: no, i swear i'm not.
speaker2: aw
speaker2: oh, my god!... oh, my goodness!

speaker1: is that it up there? 
speaker2: yeah, that's it.

speaker1: shut off the headlights, mouse. 
speaker1: is that it?
speaker2: naw. it's farther up.
speaker1: how much farther?
speaker2: another ten minutes, i guess. easy, i swear, i ain't done nothin' to nobody. i swear, i ain't.

speaker1: there it is. 
speaker2: there's some rope in the trunk, raymond.
speaker1: easy, come on, man. that girl is lying if she told you i killed them folks.
speaker2: who said she told me?
speaker2: stuff this in his mouth. i gotta get up there.

speaker1: let's just shoot him. 
speaker2: no, mouse. and they'll hear it.

speaker1: come on, talk to me. talk to me while you still can. 
speaker2: please! i don't have them! easy has them! easy can barely make out shariff passing the window. he strains to see more.
speaker1: you said he didn't know anything.
speaker2: i was lying!!
speaker1: okay. grab that for me, shariff. it's ready.
speaker2: no-o-o-o! please. no-o-o!
speaker1: now talk to me, goddammit!

speaker1: no-o-o! 
speaker2: who the hell's out there?
speaker3: i don't know!
speaker2: that you, easy?
speaker2: tell us what you want, buddy. see what we can work out.
speaker4: mouse?

speaker1: easy... hey, buddy come on, goddammit! 
speaker2: damn, damn, i hit him! i hit him!

speaker1: there's blood all over here... i got him. 
speaker1: sweetheart.
speaker1: she okay?
speaker2: yeah. let's go.

speaker1: where's joppy? and then he looks around quickly, seeing joppy's body lying off on the side of the road. 
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: i didn't have time to be tying him up.
speaker1: why, man? why?

speaker1: why what? you just said don't shoot him. and i didn't... i choked his ass... 
speaker2: mouse! why?
speaker1: how i'm gonna help you back there foolin' 'round with him?
speaker2: he was tied up! why?!
speaker1: aw, man. if you didn't want him kilt you shouldn't have left him with me.

speaker1: because she was still in shock and couldn't really talk... maybe too because she had stolen about four times that much from carter. 
speaker2: listen, if you think you gonna have trouble with that dude frank, i can run by and kill him and take that evening train to houston.
speaker1: naw, man.
speaker2: oh. this is for you.
speaker2: i cut you in for half 'cause i knew you was too big a fool to take your share from that white girl yourself.
speaker2: send my grip to etta mae. i'm gonna see if she'll take me back now that i'm flush.
speaker2: oh, here's the keys to dupree's car.
speaker2: and if you need somebody to run them streets with ya, gimme a call. you know how to put some money in a nigga's pocket.

speaker1: i could tell how it was gonna go when carter asked us to meet him at the observatory instead of at his house... she knew it, too. but she had come this far and she had to play it out. 
speaker2: daphne! daphne, sweetheart!
speaker3: come on, easy. let's go.
speaker3: don't worry, you can give him the pictures yourself.

speaker1: hey, i'm sorry. 
speaker1: for the first time i felt that i could fall in love with her, too... i was even wondering if it was starting to happen when i dropped her off at 63rd and dinker where her brother, frank, was waiting... then it occurred to me that she still had carter's money... and i felt like a fool.

speaker1: here's the remaining eight hundred that i owe you... in cash... and another thousand which i hope will keep this whole thing... you know. 
speaker1: and i've taken care of your problems with the police. you'll have no more trouble there. and that's a promise.
speaker1: mr. rawlins... did daphne ever say... she loved me?
speaker2: would it really matter if she did, mr. carter?

speaker1: i'd been thinking about daphne, too... wondering if she meant what she said about what could have happened between us... but at the moment i was wondering if there was any such thing as a sprained chin. but other than that and a headache, a loose tooth and a kidney that a doctor would need to look at, i felt like five thousand, three hundred dollars... and unless albright was alive somewhere, that feelin' was gonna last a while. 
speaker2: hey, ezekiel.

speaker1: you got some mighty powerful friends up there... mighty powerful. but, see, we got a problem. 
speaker1: with the chief sealing these things up like this, it doesn't do much for the morale of the men who've been working on these cases.
speaker2: yeah. makes 'em feel like
speaker1: there's a guy who's been callin' on the phone. and we're pretty sure that he was up there with mcgee.
speaker2: a... uh... colored guy... sounds kinda dumb...
speaker1: not very bright... but he said you accused him of the murder. and he swears you were up there, too...
speaker2: in fact, he's out and out pointing the finger at ya.
speaker1: how about a name?
speaker2: he'd do it to you...
speaker3: sorry, fellas. but i gotta go.

speaker1: why don't you go back to the station and, uh... wait around for my call. 
speaker2: you you watch yourself, you hear! don't you even spit on the sidewalk... i better not even-- mason's voice fades under.
speaker1: it might be the last moment of my adult life spent free was walking away from city hall.

speaker1: the paper treated the mysterious flip-flop like it happened every day. and i could tell that matthew teran wouldn't spend a day in jail... back in the second section of the paper was a small article about an unidentified man found dead, slumped over the steering wheel of a white cadillac just north of malibu... 
speaker1: it scared me to think about a world that could kill a man like dewitt albright... what could a world like that do to me?
speaker2: hey, easy, where's your car?

speaker1: in the shop... i'm havin' it fixed up a little. 
speaker2: yeah. man can't get no decent job in this town without a car.
speaker1: shoot. i ain't studyin' no job.
speaker2: ain't thinkin' 'bout no job? how you gonna live?
speaker1: i'm gonna go to work for myself. take a little money i got saved up and go into real estate... start fixin' up folks' gardens again... and do a few favors on the side...
speaker2: what you talkin' 'bout, 'favors'?
speaker1: well, like a woman offered me thirty dollars to go track down her husband for her.
speaker2: you talkin' about private investigatin' or somethin'... you could get in trouble doin' that.
speaker1: like a man once said to me, odell: 'walk out your door in the morning and you're already in trouble'... it's just how you're mixed up in that trouble that counts.
speaker1: odell?
speaker2: yeah, easy...

speaker1: if you got a friend that does bad and you still keep him as your friend, even though you know what he's like... do you think that's right? 
speaker2: all you got is your friends, easy...

