speaker1: "work." today we're going to share what our parents do for work. 
speaker2: my dad is a truck driver.
speaker3: my mommy is a doctor.
speaker4: my dad is a librarian and my mom is a vegetarian.
speaker5: my father is a struck-sher-al- engine-ear.
speaker6: my daddy works at a place where they make stuff, and my mommy is a mommy.
speaker7: looking a little
speaker8: my father is a postal worker.
speaker9: my mom's a teacher.
speaker1: and your dad?
speaker9: my dad? he's . . . a liar.

speaker1: a liar? i don't think you mean "a liar." 
speaker2: well... he wears a suit and goes to court and talks to the judge and--
speaker1: oh! i see-- you mean he's a lawyer.

speaker1: a dark street. . . a stormy night... two desperate men struggle... one man is taken to the hospital, the other to ja il. the prosecutor wants you to believe this is an open-and-shut case of a poor man, brutally victimized. 
speaker1: well, for once i agree with t he prosecutor. this is an open-and shut case -- but the true victim is my client.
speaker1: put yourself in his shoes for a moment--walking home from church, alone, in a frightening part of the suburbs.

speaker1: and in that terrifying instant you do what any respectable citizen would -- you defend y ou rse lf. only after you shatter his arm and collarbone do you realize it's all a mistake... the man was merely walking away from an atm machine, the apparent flash of metal caused by his bank card. 
speaker1: as you stand over his crumpled, though potentially still-dangerous form, your he art goes out to him. you want to help. first, you gather up the many bills he dropped, to stop them from bl owi ng away. second, in an effort to get the name and number of someone to notify, you take his wallet. finally, you leap into the man's lexus to head for assistance, when suddenly a police car speeds up. you breathe a sigh of relief: "someone to look -after the injured man! oh joy!" but do the police applaud your initiative? do they hail your heroism? no-- they arrest you and throw you in the slammer!
speaker2: moment, then answers his own
speaker3: discrimination,
speaker3: but this time it's not based on race.
speaker4: not based on gender.
speaker4: no--this time it's discrimination based on size! . i know what the prosecution wants you to think - - i t ' s always the big guy's fault. is that what we've come to as a society -- persecuting people because they're large?
speaker1: shame on you, mister prosecutor! shame on you!
speaker5: the state is trying to barbeque my client on the spit of justice. only you can douse the flames. the decision is your s. and please...don't let your emotions run away with y ou . the fact that my client is a family man, raising his sons alone after the tragic death of their mother, has absolutely no bearing on this case.
speaker5: instead, let cold reason be your guide as you decide the fate of this church-going, orphan-rasing widower!

speaker1: how's it going, fletcher? 
speaker2: another gratifying day serving justice.
speaker3: hey great job, mr. reid. i wish there was some way i could show my appreciation.
speaker2: stay out of my neighborhood after dark.
speaker4: mr. reid, do you have a â· moment-?
speaker2: no, i'm late picking up my son.
speaker4: -because a couple of reporters want to interview you about your big win today.
speaker5: how's my hair?

speaker1: what time is it? 
speaker2: checks her
speaker3: i ' m sure he just got tied up in court again.
speaker1: dad!
speaker4: maximillian!

speaker1: fletcher instantly becomes a human version of the 
speaker2: malfunction in vector 3 ! ! malfunction in vector 3!! look out! it's on tickle mode!!
speaker2: and who is this lovely lady?
speaker3: that's no lady, that's mom!
speaker4: thanks, max.

speaker1: mom? ! 
speaker2: himnm. . . i don't remember her looking that good, malfunction in vector 4! malfunction in vector 4!
speaker3: keep vector 4 away from me. unless you want vector 4 chopped off.
speaker4: you know, you were much easier when we were married... so where are you off too?
speaker3: stanford. i'm delivering a paper.
speaker4: o h really? where i live, we use a boy on a bike.
speaker5: hey mom, dad's taking me to see wrestling!

speaker1: the boy must learn the way of the war rior . an d wh o be tter to teach him than rowdy rod- . piper and big john stud? 
speaker1: he must be schooled in the way of the face-claw, the sleeper- hold, and the purple nuxple.
speaker2: shut up!!
speaker1: the squaw will never understand us.
speaker3: max, my man!
speaker3: fletcher, good to see you?
speaker4: what? no kiss for me?
speaker3: what do you say, max? give me a hand?
speaker4: i didn't know the boyfriend was going.

speaker1: jerry. his name is jerry and yes, he's going. 
speaker2: t o stanford? overnight? does this mean you two are...
speaker1: i've been seeing him seven months, what do you think?
speaker3: i was hoping that after being married to me, you'd have no more strength left.
speaker1: . well you have to remember when we were married, i wasn't having nearly as often as you were.
speaker2: medic!! i've been hit.

speaker1: well, great... i'm so happy for you two. i am just mister h appy man. happy, happy, happy. 
speaker2: relax, fletcher. it looks like jerry's taking that job offer in boston.
speaker1: aud, i am so sorry...

speaker1: calling to 
speaker2: ready?
speaker3: yo u gonna be okay? because if not, we could leave max with your sister and i could go out with you two, does that appeal to you at all?
speaker3: wave to the soon-to-be ex- boyfriend, max.
speaker4: you drive.
speaker5: dad, are we really going to go to wrestling?
speaker3: absolutely, maxattacker. we just have to stop by the office for one minute.

speaker1: patting his 
speaker2: 'fraid not. sorry.

speaker1: fletcher! 
speaker2: philip!
speaker1: and this must be max!
speaker2: . yes. yes it is. well, it was good seeing you--
speaker1: you know, ethel and i had a blast at our last little get- together.
speaker2: oh, me too. i can never get enough of charades. we'll have to do it again sometime.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: soon.
speaker1: how 'bout tonight?

speaker1: not that soon. i'm taking max to see wrestling-- 
speaker2: we love wrestling. we could--
speaker1: i don't think so. see, max is really shy around strangers.
speaker1: tell you what -- give me your card as a reminder. i'll call y o u . soon. promise.
speaker2: great!

speaker1: hi, mr. reid. 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: fabulous! i love it.
speaker4: what's this?
speaker1: i don't know who sent it. but it's for mr. allan. it's his anniversary.
speaker3: ah... the partnership committee meeting still scheduled for friday?

speaker1: yep... 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: oh, i'm... fixing the card, look, they spelled mr. allan's name wrong. have an apple.

speaker1: i can't do it. 
speaker2: fred, it's your duty to present the strongest case possible.
speaker1: the strongest case possible, consistent with the truth.
speaker3: let the judge decide what's true. that's what he gets paid for. you get paid to win.
speaker1: if you insist on my taking it to trial, i'll represent mrs. cole aggressively and ethically. but, miranda -- i won't lie.
speaker3: then we'll just have to find someone who'will.

speaker1: hey, pete! great tie! â·. 
speaker1: thomas--looks like you're losin' weight.
speaker2: gained three pounds.
speaker1: wedging past
speaker3: on you, it works.

speaker1: m ax ! what's new? 
speaker2: well. . . it's my birthday tomo rrow. we're having a party and everything.
speaker3: i'm sure your dad'11 give you something wonderful.
speaker4: yeah?
speaker5: oh, yeah. you're going to love it. uh, why don't you play in my office for a minute? fax something, sue someone, have a good time.

speaker1: i completely forgot. 
speaker2: oh, there's a surprise.
speaker1: you're a saint. i should get you something.
speaker2: you did.
speaker1: ah. well, i always do the classy thing. any calls?
speaker3: she hands him a stack of mail.
speaker2: . let's see.. . â·

speaker1: tell him it's in the mail. 
speaker2: jotting down a
speaker3: right. you'll do it next week. mr. mckinley phoned, questioning that fourteen hours you billed on christinas eve.
speaker1: write him a long, explanatory letter. then bill him for the letter.
speaker2: . ..

speaker1: i ' m on vacation. 
speaker2: this is your fifth week. . â· .
speaker1: it's a long vacation.
speaker2: jotting down a
speaker3: "break mother's heart." done. and that's it, except miranda's looking for you.
speaker1: as if i don't have anything better to do than bow and scrape at her royal perfumed p artner feet. tell her i'm in court.
speaker2: court's closed.
speaker1: tell her i broke my leg and had to be shot.
speaker2: why don't you tell her yourself?

speaker1: --and then send out a notice of judgement on my win today! 
speaker2: i'll get right on it.
speaker1: miranda! i didn't see you. hey, you look lovely, today.
speaker1: he grabs greta's gift and hands it to miranda.
speaker3: thanks. i heard about your victory today. you're making quite an impression on the partnership committee.

speaker1: we're not going, are we? 
speaker2: of course we are. a promise i s a promise. we are gonna see wrestling or my name isn't fletcher t. reid.

speaker1: could you hand me that? 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: we are having some fun, eh maxer?

speaker1: are you alright? 
speaker2: uh, yeah, just, uh... how long are you gonna be on the phone?
speaker1: i just wanted to say good- night to max, but he must still be out with fletcher,
speaker2: will you marry me?

speaker1: uh...would i . . . ? what did you say? 
speaker2: i proposed, i . . . look, i know this boston thing is a great opportunity, good job, mo ney .. . everything. but i started to think about being three thousand miles away from you and max. and i didn't like it. i-- look, i know it's a lot to ask, to move and everything, but i . . . . i love

speaker1: max factor... happy birthday. how old are you today? 
speaker2: five.
speaker1: well, you've held up well. i only wish there was some way to commemorate such an occasion, some small symbol to mark this day, like....
speaker1: . . . a present! .
speaker1: max eyes it with wonder.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: it's... it's. a surprise.

speaker1: baseball stuff. 
speaker2: will you play catch with me?

speaker1: jerry, these are for tomorrow. 
speaker2: the company wants me to get started right away.
speaker3: i can't just pick up and move to boston with two days notice.
speaker2: ju st come check it out. you a nd max, see the town. let's . pick out a place together. then, if you want to turn me down and scar me for life, fine.
speaker3: it's just not that simple... what about my job? i've been at ucla three years.
speaker2: it's new england. they're lousy with colleges. you can't swing a bat back there without hitting a college.
speaker2: you'd get a job there in a second.
speaker3: there are other factors involved.
speaker3: t here they are now. â·.
speaker3: did you have fun? how were the wrestling matches?
speaker4: big fun. manly fun. am i right, maxie?
speaker5: it was fun..

speaker1: so how were the wrestling matches ? did you have fun? 
speaker2: max , my man! my happy birthday man!
speaker2: one-two-three-four-five... and one for good luck.
speaker1: did you see that? he struck the child!
speaker3: look what dad got me!
speaker2: whoa! great! i have my glove in the car. we'll stop in the park on the way home and play c atch. then tonight we'll oil
speaker2: it, wrap a rubber band around it. . . it'll be great. great birthday present, dad!
speaker4: some thing's come up. we need to talk.
speaker3: mom, let's go. i want to play.
speaker4: we'll talk tonight.

speaker1: tonight? 
speaker2: max's birthday?
speaker3: oh , yeah, right. seven. i knew that. i did. i blocked it out weeks ago. the se ven tee nt h of may. max's birthday.
speaker2: it's the eighteenth.
speaker1: the seventeenth of may is the day i .remind myself that the eighteenth is max's birthday. see you tonight.

speaker1: this is good. this is really smart. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: only i t ' s . . . like not true. every word of it is a lie.
speaker1: i mean... isn't that a problem?
speaker2: mrs. cole, the only problem here is that after you've provided years of faithful service and loving support, of raising his children -- they are his?
speaker1: h m ? oh yeah. one for sure.
speaker2: after all that, your husband wants to deny you a fair share of the marital assets based on one single act of

speaker1: seven. 
speaker2: hm?

speaker1: seven single acts of indiscretion. 
speaker2: --seven acts of indiscretion, only one of which he has any evidence of, and all of which he himself is responsible, for.
speaker1: he is?

speaker1: mrs. cole, i stayed up all night last night studying your c ase. not just your case... b ut you. and, by now, i feel i know you. you are the victim here. the wife of a cold, distant businessman. starved for affection, driven into the arms of another man-- 
speaker2: seven.
speaker1: not missing a
speaker3: --seven .other men. you're not trying to deny him what is r ig htf ull y his. all you're insisting on is what is r ig htf ull y yours. and maybe an idgy-smidgy bit more. i think you're bending over backwards.
speaker2: well, i did agree to give him j oint custody of the kids... he's always been a good father.
speaker1: and you've always been a good wife.
speaker2: getting worked
speaker4: yeah. . .
speaker1: there's such a thing as being t oo nice. that's why you need aggr essive representation. to show the court that there is more than one side to this st ory. all i'm asking is the opportunity to see that justice is done on your behalf. will you give me that opportunity?
speaker1: he stares into her eyes. a moment, then...
speaker2: yes! i ' m tired of getting kicked around.
speaker1: good for you!
speaker2: thank you, mr. reid. i ' m so grateful i have an attorney i can trust.
speaker5: you're good. you're really good.
speaker1: oh, pshaw. she picks a piece of lint off.his jacket.
speaker5: n o, i mean it. the cole case is worth a truckload of money to this firm, not to mention the press it's going to g en er at e . you win this case and i guarantee you'll make partner.
speaker5: actually, how would you like to make a partner right now?
speaker1: excuse me?

speaker1: indicating the 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: well, if you don't hire your brother, who will?

speaker1: they called me again from b oston. they really want me there tomorrow. 
speaker2: . . . i can't go to boston.
speaker1: how come?
speaker2: max.
speaker1: he'll love it there.
speaker2: it's fletcher.
speaker1: fletcher?
speaker2: i can't move max three thousand miles away from his father.

speaker1: audrey, i have never said a bad word about your ex -- 
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: but how much responsibility does fletcher take for max, now? he'd never come over if you didn't remind him. 
speaker2: i know. but if they're three thousand miles apart they'll never see each other. fletcher will never come to boston and how can i send max cross-country to him?
speaker3: so because your ex-husband is unreliable, we can't-'-
speaker2: i know, it's not logical, it's emotional. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i still want to marry you.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: mr. crisitelli, jerry she!ton... i hope i'm not calling too late... mr. crisitelli, i'm afraid i have to turn down your offer..'. so am i . . . well, i've fallen in love with this beautiful woman in l.a. and she doesn't want to leave and i won't leave without her... well, thank you very much... yes, good-bye.
speaker1: he wasn't there, but that's 1 the speech i would've made. she smiles and kisses him. the phone rings. audrey answers.
speaker2: hello...

speaker1: fletcher, where are you? we're getting ready to cut the cake. 
speaker2: urn, actually, something has come up. a problem on a new caaa-- .
speaker3: a-h-h-h-!

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: nothing. i just nailed my â·knee into the desk... listen, i'm really sorry i can't 'make it.
speaker1: max is going to be so disappointed.
speaker2: i'll make it up to him, i promise. i'll pick him up from school tomorrow, okay?
speaker1: do you want me to put him on the phone?
speaker2: ah, no. i have to go.

speaker1: all right, birthday boy, make a wish. 
speaker1: c'mon, honey. it can be anything-- whatever you want most in the world.
speaker1: max, your dad is sorry. he had to work.
speaker2: he said he was coming. he promised.
speaker1: yes, well, he... promises he'll see you tomorrow.
speaker2: i wish, for just one day, dad couldn't tell a lie.

speaker1: s o . . . was it good for you? 
speaker2: i've had better.

speaker1: new in the building? 
speaker2: i just moved in monday.
speaker1: ah. well, you must allow me to give you the grand tour.

speaker1: any change, mister? 
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: could you spare some?

speaker1: unquestionably. 
speaker2: will you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how come?
speaker1: because i resent your p re sen ce. you fill me with an unpleasant mixture of disgust and guilt. further, i don't believe you'll use the money for food, but i believe you'll use it for, at worst, drugs, or, at best, whiskey, or . cigarettes. also, i'm cheap.
speaker2: jerkoff.

speaker1: you look like you're having a rough morning. 
speaker2: i've had better.
speaker3: good morning, fletcher.
speaker2: dana. "

speaker1: all right, virginia, how much will it take to put an end to this? 
speaker2: fifty per cent of your estate.
speaker3: fifty per cent? with a pre- nup and proof of adultery?
speaker2: our case is simply this. . .
speaker4: wa it! wait! i've got it in writing!
speaker3: let go!
speaker2: i'm trying!

speaker1: calling case ba 09395, richard cole versus virginia cole. how're we doing this morning, counsel? 
speaker2: fine, thank you.
speaker1: and you, mr. reid?
speaker3: well, i'm a little upset about a bad sexual episode i had last night--
speaker1: well, you're still young. it'll happen more and more. in the meantime, what do you say we get. down to business? first, mr. reid, i see that your client was previously represented by mr. rand of your office.
speaker3: yes, your honor.
speaker1: i take it you're seeking to substitute in as counsel?
speaker3: yes, your honor.
speaker1: fine , fine. and for the record, the reason is?

speaker1: mr. rand had severe ethical objections to my client's case. 
speaker2: i take it you don't share the same ethical objections, mr.
speaker1: i have lower standards, your honor.
speaker2: i see. well, if mrs. cole wants the substitution of counsel, i'll allow it. is that what you want, mrs. cole?
speaker3: yes?
speaker2: fine.
speaker3: aside, to
speaker4: what are you doing?

speaker1: i realize that, your honor, but i ' d really, really, really like a continuance. 
speaker2: i'll have to hear good cause, counselor. what's the problem?

speaker1: i can't lie! 
speaker2: commendable, mr. reid, but i'm still waiting for the good caus e. now, do you have it or . not?

speaker1: motion for a continuance denied. is there any chance of a settlement in this case? 
speaker2: i don't think so, your honor. mr. reid made it abundantly clear that the last thing in the world he wanted was to --

speaker1: your honor, under the terms of the prenuptual agreement, if mrs. cole commits adultery, she is entitled to nothing. we have in our possession an audiotape made by a licensed private investigator of an explicit act of sexual congress with a man who is not her husband. 
speaker2: sounds pretty damning, mr.
speaker3: it certainly does.
speaker1: however, my client has no desire to see his ex-wife destitute. against my advice, he's willing to offer her a cash settlement of.two point four million dollars.
speaker2: two four seems like a pretty fair offer, mr. reid.
speaker3: fantastically fair. phenominally fair. in fact, i'd say beyond fair, bordering on stupid.
speaker2: what are you suggesting, mr. rei d? that ms. appleton's willingness to proffer such an offer betrays a lack of faith in her position?
speaker3: no, not at all. she's got my client dead to rights. when
speaker3: attorneys go to sleep at night, they dream of having a case as strong as hers.
speaker1: can the sarcasm, reid. all right, i admit it -- i've seen you make even the lamest case fly. but this time i have you. even clarence darrow couldn't explain this away.
speaker4: wel l, mr. reid? without a dynamite explanation, i'd say you're dead in the water.
speaker3: the best that money can buy, y o u r honor. â·
speaker2: strong corroborating evidence?
speaker3: we have evidence that you are not going to-believe.
speaker2: you're pretty confident how this trial is going to come out, eh, mr. reid?
speaker3: . "confident" is too weak a word, your honor. i am certain what will happen if i take this puppy to trial. the verdict will be a stunning, humiliating defeat that will cut a spectacularly promising legal career off at the knees.

speaker1: all right! double the offer! four point eight! and not a penny more. 
speaker2: bastard!
speaker3: you are some negotiator, mr. reid. if your client has half a brain, she'll jump at the offer.

speaker1: no! 
speaker1: we are --

speaker1: no? ! mrs. cole, this offer was a miracle. i'm talking about a walking-on-water, lazarus-rising-from-the-dead, 
speaker2: four minutes. think of it this way -- now you're getting paid seven hundred thou per schtupp!

speaker1: mr. reid, you convinced me yesterday -- i'm the victim here, starved for affection, driven into the arms of another man-- 
speaker2: seven! â·

speaker1: -- seven other men. with the story you came up with, i don't think i can lose. i want to proceed. 
speaker2: mrs. cole, you don't â·. understand, i--
speaker3: well , mr. reid. do we have a settlement?
speaker3: th ere' s no settlement. trial to start at one-thirty sharp.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: i think you need help.
speaker3: what's shakin', fletcher?
speaker4: your cellulite, tubster.
speaker5: hiy a, fletcher. how's the cole case going?

speaker1: a test. . . something small... aha! 
speaker2: red. red. all right. focus,
speaker2: the color of this pen is â· r--. r--. r--! the color of this pen is--blue! aaaahh!
speaker3: ahhhh! one' tiny lie and i can't say it!!
speaker3: suddenly sitting
speaker4: ' i'll write.it!

speaker1: boss, what's wrong? 
speaker2: . the pen is blue!! the pen is .

speaker1: oh, that's easy for you to say?! 
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker1: i have to go home.
speaker2: home? was the case settled?
speaker1: no. i have to be in court at one-thirty.

speaker1: well, then how can you.go home? 
speaker2: i don't know, i don't know!!!
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: before i forget -- rubin and dun n called. they want to know where the darvis settlement offer stands.
speaker2: i only proposed a settlement t o with them. i never had any intention of going th ro ug h with it. .
speaker1: 'â·...dick with them." okay. your accountant, philip, called to remind you about getting together. .
speaker2: i'd rather shave my and sit in vinegar..
speaker1: jotting down a
speaker4: got it. and your mother called again. are you still on vacation?

speaker1: i ' m having a little trouble following you. what do i say to your mom? 
speaker2: tell her i'm a thoughtless son who'd rather spend ten hours clogging the wheels of justice than five minutes talking to her-- but only if she asks. you.might also add that she deserves better, though i hope to you don't.
speaker1: thanks for clearing that up. and that's it, except your ex called and asked when you were cowing over to see your son.

speaker1: hey, fletcher. t was wondering if you were going to still pick up max after school today. 
speaker2: i don't think i can. i had a case i was certain would settle and it didn't. i have to go to trial this afternoon, help me.

speaker1: not believing 
speaker2: right.
speaker3: it's true... i really do want to see max, today.
speaker3: how about that. i really do.
speaker1: but things keep coming up at the last minute.
speaker3: yes, but-this time it's different.
speaker1: i see. and how is that?

speaker1: he walked into 
speaker2: this time i'm telling the truth.
speaker3: but last night you weren't?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: what were you doing?
speaker1: having sex.
speaker3: , it must have been with someone very "special."
speaker1: no. it was with someone i don't even like. but i thought it would help my career and at the moment that
speaker1: seemed more important than attending my son's birthday!
speaker4: m y

speaker1: is dad picking me up? 
speaker2: no, i'm sorry, max. he can't make it. i will. i'll work it out.
speaker1: i guess my wish didn't come â· true.
speaker2: what wish?
speaker1: i wished that, for just one day, dad couldn't tell a lie.
speaker3: answer, answer, answer...

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: audrey, let me explain.
speaker1: fletcher, something else is about to happen to you.
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker1: max and i are moving to boston.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: jerry asked me to marry him. he wants max and i to fly with him this weekend to pick out a house. and i'm going to go. knows i don't have any reason to stay here.
speaker2: . wait, you can't move! if you take max away... i'll practically never see him.
speaker1: well then you'll have pretty much the same relationship you have with him now.
speaker2: audrey, please.... is this because of what i just said on the phone?
speaker1: that was the straw and this is the camel's back saying goodbye.
speaker2: where are you?
speaker1: heading home.

speaker1: aaaah! 
speaker2: flet cher. fletcher, fletcher, fletcher. i must confess-- after last night's incident, i was. . . hurt. so hurt. i was tempted to do whatever little things lie in my power to scuttle your chances of making partner.
speaker2: but then i thought, "no, that 's not fair. fletcher didn't mean to insult me."
speaker2: "it was just some massive, boneheaded misunderstanding, and fletcher is very, very sorry."
speaker2: isn't that right, fletcher?
speaker1: uh -- not really, no.
speaker2: n o ? no?! what are you sayi ng? have you no respect for me?!

speaker1: none, whatsoever. i mean, i ' d like to respect you, and if it weren't for your mistreatment of the associates, your rudeness to the staff, and the fact that your work i would. 
speaker2: but -- what about last night?
speaker1: i was afraid you wouldn't support my partnership if i turned you down. plus, i have an immature need for sexual conquests.

speaker1: gotta focus. . . gotta focus. 
speaker1: the color of the pen is -- re d ! .
speaker2: what's your problem, schmuck?!
speaker1: i ' m an inconsiderate prick!
speaker1: fletcher once again focuses on the blue pen.
speaker1: c'mon, you can do this! the color of the pen is -- red!
speaker3: s hi t !!
speaker3: fletcher pulls over. a police officer strolls up.
speaker4: do you know why i stopped you?
speaker1: depends on how long you were following me.
speaker4: why don't we take it from the top.
speaker1: â· here goes -- i didn't fasten my seatbelt, i didn't glance in my rearview mirror, i didn't signal when i pulled away from the curb, i sped, i followed too closely, i ran a stop sign, i almost hit :a chevy camaro, i almost hit a ge ezer, i sped some more, i failed to yield at a crosswalk, i changed lanes in the intersection, i changed lanes without signalling, and i changed lanes in the
speaker5: signalling while running a red light and speeding.
speaker4: may i see your driver's license?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: and why is that? 
speaker2: it's in my other pants.
speaker1: i see. and where are your â· other pants?
speaker2: hanging from my boss's credenza.
speaker1: do you expect me to believe that?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: do you think i'm an idiot? 
speaker2: yes -- but that's beside the point! my license actually is in my other pants, and they actually were hanging from a credenzaj i wouldn't lie to you! i mean, i would if i could, but i can't!
speaker1: i see. so you ..have no reason to try and hide your license from me?
speaker2: i didn't say that. i have other reasons. seventeen reasons, to be precise. unpaid parking tickets.
speaker2: be gentle.

speaker1: audrey, wait! 
speaker2: wait? you know, i just had an insight into myself. i ' m crazy. you call me up and . tell me to wait here because you'll be right over and -- here's the crazy part -- i actually wait.
speaker1: i can explain--
speaker2: i missed a department meeting.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: where's your car?

speaker1: thank you. . i can't tell you how much this means to me. 
speaker2: i can. one thousand, six hundred, and fifty-four dollars and eleven cents.
speaker1: ow.

speaker1: you scratched my car! 
speaker2: where? .
speaker1: right there!

speaker1: oh that? that was already there. 
speaker2: why, you -- you liar! do you know what i ' m going to do about this?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: angrier and
speaker3: ...nothing! because if i take you to small-claims court, it will just drain eight hours out of my life, and you probably won't show up, and if i finally got the judgment you'd just stiff me anyway, so what i'm gonna do is and moan like an impotent jerk and . then bend over and take it up the tail pipe!
speaker1: you've been here before, haven't you?
speaker4: well i can't remember when i've had more fun, now if you'll excuse me, i have a class.
speaker2: audrey, wait. i want to talk to you about this boston situation.
speaker5: what do you want to say?
speaker2: you can't go. it's not fair. taking max three thousand miles away is not fair.

speaker1: let' s define "fair." last â· night a five-year old boy was crushed because his father lied to him about coming to his birthday party. fair? 
speaker2: last night--
speaker1: -- was none of my business. when it happened two years ago it was my business, but now i don't have to care anymore. see, that's the magic of div orce . but it does matter to max. everything you do matters to him... and everything you don't do.
speaker2: all right-- now let me tell you something...you're absolutely right. i'm guilty of all charges. i'm throwing myself on the mercy of your -court.
speaker3: i have an idea. i'll come over tonight, right after court lets out and play with m ax. have him invite some fri ends over. we'll have a game and everything. then, you and i can sit down and talk.
speaker1: we're suppose to be on a plane

speaker1: no, audrey. just talk to me abou t this first. please. au drey, i've lost you. don't make me lose max, too. 
speaker2: you're really coming?

speaker1: this is iron-clad. this is the mother of all promises. 
speaker2: ...six?
speaker1: ten-to-six.

speaker1: i will be there. 
speaker1: as audrey gets in her car -- .
speaker2: i hope so. do you know what your son was doing at nine- fif teen las t ni ght? he was making a wish on his birthday c ake. he was wishing that, for just one day, his dad couldn't tell a lie.
speaker3: oh my that-'s it! an innocent kid - - a heartfelt plea-- a birthday wish! sure, it' s impossible --but it 'makes sense!..! if he can wish it, he can unwish it!

speaker1: are you max's dad? i ' m ms. 
speaker2: hi. listen, i need to talk to

speaker1: mr. reid, we were just talking ab ou t careers. you're a lawyer, aren't you? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: mr. reid it'would be wonderful for the children to hear something positive about lawyers!
speaker2: well, actually-- â·
speaker1: children! .mr. reid is going to tell us what it's like to be a lawyer.
speaker2: uh, hi. uh, i'm a lawyer and i work at a big law firm with a lot of other lawyers and i do stuff in a law court. thank you.
speaker1: one moment, mr. reid. maybe some of the children have
speaker4: jeffrey?

speaker1: what kind of lawyer are you? 
speaker2: mostly, i ' m a divorce lawyer.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker2: it means if you're daddy left your mommy, he'd call me.
speaker4: so what do you do?
speaker2: i help people fight over their money and their children.
speaker5: can't they fight without you?
speaker6: they could but then j wouldn't make a living.
speaker7: why would my daddy leave my mommy?
speaker2: to marry a younger woman. to escape a loveless marriage and have cheap meaningless sex. to cling to an illusion of youth as his body gives way to sore backs, flat feet, spare tires, gum disease, hair loss, liver spots, kidney stones, clogged arteries, diabetes, goiter and eventual death.
speaker8: well, i think it's time for fingerpainting.

speaker1: dadzilla. you came to play catch? 
speaker2: no. i ' d like to, but i can't right now.
speaker2: i ' m sorry i missed your party la st night. how was your uncle glen?
speaker1: stupid. his big nose and stupid orange hair...
speaker2: that's why he should have worn make-up.
speaker2: yeah, okay, urn... your mother told me about... the wish you made last night. it came true.
speaker1: really? you mean you have to tell the truth?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: no matter what? 
speaker2: no matter what.

speaker1: is wrestling real? 
speaker2: in the olympics, yes. on .
speaker1: will sitting close to the tv set make me go blind?
speaker2: not in a million years.
speaker1: if i keep making this face--
speaker1: will it get stuck that way?
speaker2: uh-uh.
speaker1: .if i go in the water right after lunch, will i drown?
speaker2: only if you can't 'swim.
speaker1: why do i have to eat squash?
speaker2: because your mom buys it.
speaker1: how come you're always too busy to play with me?
speaker2: i . . . i don't know. i ' m . . . hey, you know i'm coming over to nig ht. we're gonna play together.
speaker1: baseball?

speaker1: . yes! this is absolutely an a-number one promise. you and i -- tonight -- baseball. 
speaker1: now, listen, max, i need a favor from you. i ' m in a little trouble today. i need you to take that wish back.
speaker2: so you can lie?
speaker1: not to you.
speaker2: to who?
speaker1: max, sometimes grownups... need to lie. it's hard to explain, but i . . . look, here's an example. when mommy was pregnant with you, she gained a little weight. se venty pounds. i thought she was gonna give birth to a car. but she'd say to me "how do i lo ok?" so i'd say, "oh, honey, you're beautiful, you're glowing.11 otherwise, i would've hurt mommy's fee ling s. understand?
speaker2: you didn't think she was beautiful.
speaker1: right. no... max, i don't know how to get along in the grown-up world if i have to stick to the truth. i could lose my case, i could lose my promotion, i could even lose, my job... do you understand?
speaker1: will you help me anyway?
speaker1: that's my boy!
speaker1: now, do whatever you did last night... only this time, make an un-wish.
speaker2: i did it. ^
speaker1: great! great! now to test --

speaker1: fletcher returns to his son. 
speaker2: did it work?
speaker3: not like i ' d hoped. did you really unwish it?
speaker2: only...
speaker4: only what?
speaker2: yesterday, when i wished it, i r ea lly meant it. this time when i unwished it i only did it 'cause you told me to.

speaker1: well, then do it again. only this time, mean it. 
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: why not?!
speaker2: because i don't want you to lie.
speaker1: i explained this to you! i have to lie. everybody lies! mommy lies, even the wonderful jerry lies--

speaker1: but you're the only one who makes me feel bad. 
speaker2: max, recess 'is over, come on in.
speaker1: i have to go.
speaker3: i am coming over, tonight, max. you believe me, don't you?
speaker3: i'll see you tonight, buddy... that's a promise.

speaker1: yo, fletcher! how's it hanging? 
speaker2: short and shrivelled.
speaker3: fletcher! i'm still waiting for your call. i guess you must've lost my card --
speaker2: no --
speaker3: or my phone was busy --
speaker2: no --

speaker1: or you just forgot -- 
speaker2: no --
speaker1: cannot be
speaker3: or something. so anyway,' why don't you swing by my place around seven-thirty!
speaker2: philip... i don't want to come over to your house!
speaker1: fi n e ! we'll go out! there's this new karaoke bar i've been dying to try. i'll pick you up at your office! seven- thirty! !

speaker1: do you want your messages? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: my son hates me.
speaker1: no! he loves you. i've seen y ou together. you're his hero.
speaker2: o h yeah? last night at his birthday party, he made a â·wish. that i wouldn't be able to tell a lie for one whole day.
speaker1: kids...
speaker2: it came true.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's true. didn't it seem odd to you that i kept telling the truth all morning?
speaker1: well, yeah, but...
speaker1: you're telling me that you can't lie.
speaker2: that's right! i am incapable of lying.

speaker1: just today? 
speaker2: apparently until 9:15 tonight.
speaker1: yes, those are going around.
speaker2: you don't believe me.
speaker1: of course not.
speaker2: go ahead. ask me something i ' d normally lie about.
speaker1: a ll right. remember a few months ago, i wanted a raise--
speaker2: forget it. let's not do this.
speaker1: -- and the firm wouldn't.give me one. and i asked you if you would give it to me out of your own pocket and you said the company wouldn't permit it because it creates jealousy among the other secretaries? was that true or did you just not want to pony up the dough?

speaker1: greta, please... yes judge stevens, hi!.. fletcher reid. i ' m scheduled to be in your court in half- an-hour... judge stevens, i badly, badly need a continuance. . . so i can go home and stay there the rest of the day...111? am i ill? 
speaker1: in a way.
speaker2: please, lie to him for me.
speaker3: i remember when you. bought me t hi s silver frame. from tiffany's.
speaker3: . . . tiffany's?
speaker1: jumbo's house of junk.
speaker1: i'll give you the raise!
speaker3: gives him the
speaker4: here's your raise.
speaker1: hi, judge stevens?... yes, i know i haven't given you a reason.
speaker1: but if you could just do this for me, i-- the phone won't stop ringing. .â·'

speaker1: oh i cut him off! i cut off the judge! greta... 
speaker1: i'm on my knees in a nine hundred dollar suit. don't leave.
speaker2: a few years ago a friend of mine had a burglar up on her roof.
speaker1: yes?
speaker1: no. . . but what' s your poijit!
speaker2: my point is, it's hard to get justice. but this is justice,
speaker2: have a nice day in court, bubbie. she leaves. fletcher starts to give chase...

speaker1: aaaah! 
speaker2: ah, fletcher, so nice to bump i nto you. are you busy?
speaker1: extremely.
speaker2: good. would you follow me, please?
speaker2: fletcher, did you know that the partnership committee is being headed up by mr. allan himself?
speaker3: say, you used to work directly for mr. allan, didn't you?
speaker3: tell me, what do you think of him?

speaker1: he's a pedantic, pontificating, pretentious bastard, a belligerent old fart, a worthless, steaming pile of cow dung. 
speaker2: how delightful!

speaker1: â·it's good to see you again, fletcher. '. 
speaker2: oh, that's right. you used to work together. .tell me, what do you think of mr. allah?
speaker2: i said... what do you think of mr. allan?
speaker3: he's a pedantic, pontificating, pretentious bastard, a belligerent old fart, a worthless, steaming pile of cow dung.

speaker1: marvelous! marvelous! that's what i love most about this firm-- the collegial atmosphere, the hearty good- fellowship! 
speaker1: and thanks for those flowers for my anniversary. my wife loved them.
speaker2: well, i'm due in court... bye- bye.

speaker1: all rise. 
speaker2: counselors, are we ready to begin?
speaker3: eagerly and a little too
speaker4: n o sir! we are not ready to b eg in. my client has not arrived.
speaker5: did you and mrs. cole ever make lo-- forni-- roll in the h-- make the beast with two ba -- did you two ever fu-- fu-- fu!
speaker6: wate r! get him water!
speaker3: fu-- fu--

speaker1: s it down! get some air! 
speaker2: try to relax! breathe deeply!
speaker1: w hat?! what?!

speaker1: i couldn't find any water, so i got him coffee! 
speaker2: judge is taking the bench.

speaker1: by way of 
speaker2: sympathy.
speaker3: well, it's working. i feel sorry for them already.
speaker4: ms. appleton, you may begin.

speaker1: referring to his 
speaker2: -- from march six through june twelve, i surveilled mrs. cole at the behest of mr. cole. during that period, i noted that mr. cole left each day between seven-forty and seven- fifty. thereafter, mrs. cole would frequently have a male visitor arrive and stay for one to four hours. i was able to take several photographs of the male visitor.

speaker1: i see. and do you .know what mrs. cole and her male visitor 
speaker1: did during their frequent...
speaker2: well, they were pretty good about keeping the shades drawn -- but i sure was able to hear. i made an audiotape of one such., "session."
speaker1: with the court's permission, i would like to play the tape.
speaker3: your honor, i object!
speaker4: and why is that, mr. reid?
speaker3: can't help
speaker5: because it's devastating to my â·case.
speaker4: overruled..

speaker1: so , what did you say? you ready? 
speaker2: oh boy am i ready.
speaker1: good. let me help you off with that. come on, lie down.
speaker2: wai t a minute. do you have protection?
speaker2: right here. okay, now i ' m gonna show you something new.
speaker1: don't worry, you can take it. oh yeah. that's it. there you go. yes! yes!
speaker1: yes, yes, yes --
speaker1: oh yeah, bring it on .home -- yes! yes! yes!
speaker2: yes! yes! yes!
speaker3: your witness.
speaker4: no questions.
speaker5: no questions? .
speaker2: no questions?
speaker4: afraid to ask
speaker6: no questions.
speaker3: petitioner rests.

speaker1: all right, mr. reid. you may proceed. 
speaker2: how?!
speaker2: would the court be willing to grant me a short bathroom break?
speaker1: it can't wait?
speaker2: not unless you want to mop up.
speaker1: all right, but get back in here immediately so .we can finish this.

speaker1: what did i think? that i could for forty-five minutes?! 
speaker2: what's going on in-there?
speaker2: i ' m abusing myself! do you mind?!

speaker1: i found him like this in the bathroom. somebody beat the out of him. 
speaker2: who did this?
speaker3: a madman, your honor.. a desperate fool at the end of his pitiful.rope.
speaker2: -what did he look like?

speaker1: bailiff, have the deputies search the building. 
speaker1: under the circumstances, i have no choice but to recess this case until tomorrow morning at nine.
speaker1: -- unless, of course, you think you can still proceed?
speaker1: can you?
speaker2: yes, i can.
speaker1: splendid. i admire your courage, mr. reid. i'll give you a few minutes to compose yourself, and then we'll get started.

speaker1: dad... 
speaker2: summoning up
speaker3: maxi-pad. how's it going?
speaker1: great. you know paul and emanuel from across the street?
speaker2: the twins.

speaker1: oh boy. we're setting up a whole field in the yard. where we buried petey the hamster is second base. you're still coming right?' 
speaker2: sees virginia
speaker3: i'11 be there. i gotta go now, max. i'll see you in two hours.
speaker1: he's really coming.

speaker1: mr. reid, you remember laurence falk, the man from the tape. 
speaker2: how are you?
speaker3: i've slipped into the seventh circle of hell, thank you, and you?
speaker1: shouldn't we go over our testimony?
speaker3: well, basically the plan is i walk you through the tape step by step, i ask you questions--
speaker1: and we give the explanation you came up with.

speaker1: so all we have to do is lie. 
speaker2: do esn't it? and i'll finish up with a dramatic series of questions, something like... "mr. falk, isn't it true that you and mrs. cole have never made lo--"
speaker3: sorry. i'm fine. "mr. falk, isn't it true that you and mrs. cole have never made lo--

speaker1: oh my i can't do it! i can't finish the question if i know the answer is a lie! 
speaker2: don't let me interrupt, fletcher. i just want you to know i'll be observing this a fternoon. miranda insisted i see you in action.
speaker2: i'm looking forward to it. go get 'em!

speaker1: respondent calls... lawrence falk. 
speaker1: mr. falk, do you know my client, virginia cole?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: isn't it true that your relationship with my client is entirely platonic, not?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: if i might rephrase your honor. is your relationship with my client entirely patonic, not?
speaker3: is your relationship with my client not entirely platonic? is not your relationship with my client entirely platonic?
speaker3: mr. falk, is not your relationship with my client entirely platonic?
speaker2: no. i mean, yes. i think.
speaker1: yes, is your relationship with my client not entirely platonic, or yes, is not your relationship with my client entirely platonic?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: how 'bout just answering the question you think i'm asking? ' 
speaker2: your honor, he's badgering the wintness!
speaker3: it's hig witness!
speaker1: did you ever not make lo-- did you not ever make lo--

speaker1: no further questions. 
speaker2: uh...no questions.
speaker3: call your next witness.
speaker1: i have no further witnesses, your honor.
speaker3: you have no further witnesses?!
speaker3: fletcher meekly shakes his head, no.
speaker4: whispers, to
speaker5: what are you doing? call me.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker3: mr. reid?
speaker4: call me, it!
speaker1: you don't understand. i can't lie . until nine-sixteen tonight, i can't even.ask a question that calls for a lie!
speaker6: l is ten , you bastard. i want m y money. i am not gonna wind up a 31 year old divorce on welfare because my scum bag attorney had a sudden attack of conscience!
speaker1: thirty-one?
speaker3: mr. reid, we're not getting any younger...
speaker3: mr. reid you have presented virtually nothing in the way of evidence and as such i have no choice but to rule in favor of --

speaker1: what the is he doing? 
speaker2: kissing his career goodbye.
speaker3: do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help -you god?
speaker4: i do.
speaker5: mrs. cole -- may i call you virginia?
speaker4: yes.
speaker5: but that would be a lie, wouldn't it?
speaker4: what do you mean?
speaker5: isn't your true name...

speaker1: well, yes. but it wasn't me so i started using virginia. is there anything wrong with that? 
speaker2: your driver's license. what color are your eyes?
speaker1: blue.
speaker3: tru e blue? what if i asked you to remove your contact l enses? what color would they be then?
speaker1: brown.
speaker3: and here it says you're a b l on de . are you? c'mon, carlotta, there's a very easy way for us to check. if you don't remember, perhaps mr. falk will.
speaker1: brunette.
speaker4: more like a dirty brown, isn't it? let's see - . - " weight: one-o- five"? please...
speaker5: one-eighteen.
speaker5: one-twenty-six. i swear!
speaker3: so on this single document, you basically lied at every opportunity. i'm sure a woman as vain as you would also lie about her age. it says you were born in 1964. what's the truth? 1962? '60? how young did you try to make yourself?
speaker1: wrong! i didn't lie to make myself younger. i made myself older. i was born in 1965!"

speaker1: yes! " lied so i could get married! so .there mister 'i 
speaker2: mr. reid, does this have a point?
speaker3: oh, you bet it does, your honor! my client lied about her age because she was only 17 when s he got married. which makes h er a minor. and in the great state of california, no minor

speaker1: defeated, to 
speaker2: prenuptual agreements.

speaker1: you very little! this contract is void!!! the fact that my client gets nailed â· more often than a two-by-four is irrelevant. standard community property applies and this woman is entitled to half of the marital assets or thirty-seven point three-nine- five million dollars!! yo . . . . a e . . . . t a t t t ! ! 
speaker1: nothing further, your honor!

speaker1: banging his 
speaker2: q uie t! let me see-the license and birth certificate.
speaker1: in light of this new evidence, the court must rule in favor o the defense. mrs. cole is hereby awarded half of the marital assets -or thirtyrseven million three hundred and ninety-five thousand dollars.
speaker3: that son of pulled it off!
speaker1: o r d e r ! order!! now i understand both parties have agreed to joint custody. is that correct?

speaker1: no! i'm contesting custody. 
speaker1: fletcher freezes.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: payback. for him trying to prevent me from collecting my thirty-seven million.
speaker2: he was entitled to prevent you. you committed adultery.' you only won because you're a liar, remember? .
speaker1: no. you pointed out that my husband took advantage of a poor underage girl. i was the vic tim here. and now i'm going to hit him where it hurts.
speaker2: but -- but -- you said he was a good father.
speaker3: m r. reid? do we have an agreement on custody or not?
speaker2: no. .
speaker3: in that case, there will be a custody hearing tomorrow mor ning at nine. court is adj ourned!

speaker1: stop that! we're leaving now! 
speaker2: i want to go with daddy.

speaker1: don't worry. i'll see you no matter what. i promise. 
speaker2: re: the
speaker3: i love kids. they give you so much leverage in a case like this.
speaker4: congratulations, partner. how does it feel?
speaker5: excuse me. just a second. y our honor? your honor?
speaker6: we',re adjourned, mr. reid.
speaker7: screw that!! she lies and she wins ?! what are we, nuts?
speaker7: t his woman --my client -- goes down with the frequency of a nuclear submarine and we just gave her thirty seven million dollars because she's a liar! and now as an extra added little bonus, we're going to let her steal, the kids, too?

speaker1: that's enough, mr. reid -- 
speaker2: -let' s see what i' ve done today. i've helped a gold digging get richer. i'm taking this guy's kids away. i don't like you in the least, now i'm one of your partners!

speaker1: fletcher does feel strangely fantastic. free, 
speaker2: that's it, mr..reid. i find you in contempt!

speaker1: bailiff! remove mr. reid from the courtroom! 
speaker2: yo u wanna know the truth? oh yeah, let's let it rain... the truth is is that i've traded my life...a beautiful wife, an incredible son for this

speaker1: fletcher is pushed passed mr. allan. 
speaker2: you just killed your career.

speaker1: we're going home. 
speaker2: yeah, thanks for the great game, max.
speaker3: max, honey. your dad had a very big case today. it probably just--
speaker4: i don't want to talk about it.
speaker3: okay.
speaker4: i hate dad! i hate him!
speaker3: honey, don^t say that.
speaker3: max, there's something i-want to talk to you about. . .

speaker1: when would we move? 
speaker2: soon. my semester's almost over. you only have a week left of school... you like jerry don't you? so what do you say, should we check it out? jerry wants us to come with him tonight. he has to pick out a place to live and he really wants our help?
speaker1: could i get a sled for when it snows?
speaker2: of course you can.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: audrey! it's fletcher-- 
speaker2: i can't talk now, fletcher.
speaker1: wait, the most amazing thing's happened to me! i am feeling so good...
speaker1: pack?! did you say pack?!
speaker2: max was sitting on the porch again, waiting for his dad. i won't let you do this to him anymore. i won't let you do this to me.
speaker1: a ud rey , wait. please, i need to talk to you. i .swear, i'm a changed man. just come to the courthouse with a thousand dollars and bail me out... hello? o ne more call!! i need another call!!

speaker1: that's me. fletcher t. reid. 
speaker2: you made bail. some woman.
speaker1: audrey? greta?!
speaker3: am i too late? have you been se xu al ly molested yet? i could circle the block.
speaker1: greta! greta!! . . . . look at you, you well preserved, underpaid, overworked, underappreciated thing you. g iv e me a hug! you came and got me out!! hug me!!
speaker3: totally wierded
speaker4: yes, well, i heard you went all noble in front of mr.
speaker1: y ou know what?! i love you. i loveyouloveyouloveyou. i wa nt to hug you. come here..,
speaker3: mr. reid, what has gotten intc to you?!
speaker1: just the truth, greta. fifteen years of being stuck in a lie is nowhere near as powerful as one day of being stuck in the truth.
speaker1: checks his
speaker5: oh, my i have to go! thanks again, greta!
speaker5: by the way, the truth is that i need you and i couldn't file a paperclip without you!

speaker1: fletcher's driving like a madman... 
speaker2: answeransweransweranswer...

speaker1: the subscriber you called is either unavailable or outside the calling area. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: a little going away present. i was gonna get you a bowl of clam chowder but they only had manhattan. 
speaker2: say thank you, max.
speaker3: thanks. â·.

speaker1: shelton, jerry shelton. what time's that flight leave? 7:50. thank you. 
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: shiiiiit!!! he pulls over -- so quick he jumps the curb.
speaker3: would you step out of the car, please?
speaker1: listen; i know i'm driving a little crazy but i have an emergency to attend to...
speaker3: i'm impounding this vehicle.
speaker1: w h y ? what for? for changing lanes?
speaker3: i just ran your tags through the computer. you've got. seventeen unpaid parking tickets.
speaker1: no ! i paid them! this morning! that's the truth! i swear!!
speaker3: not according to the computer.

speaker1: the computer is wrong! it ' hasn't been updated. the computer's a liar! 
speaker2: you can straighten it out at the impound yard.

speaker1: no? 
speaker2: that's right, no! i'm not gonna lose my son because some stupid clerk was too lazy to update the computer. now if you want to follow me, . you can follow me and take the car after i get where i'm going. i'm a lawyer and i k now my rights! understand?!

speaker1: looking . 
speaker2: noooo!!!

speaker1: 'scuse me, sir. do you have any - - 
speaker2: change? absolutely.
speaker1: could you spare some?
speaker2: unquestionably.

speaker1: tw ent y. . 
speaker2: minted in denver. imagine that.
speaker1: thirty-four. that's all i have.
speaker2: it's worth twice that to screw you.

speaker1: whoa, where do you think you're going? 
speaker2: i just need to use the phone to call a cab. i work here.
speaker3: used to work here.

speaker1: to security 
speaker2: son, that man is tresspassing.
speaker3: hold it! i've got ten years worth of dirt on you and this firm, and i'm in the kind of mood today to get a lot off my chest. you let me use the phone or i start talking!!

speaker1: still euphoric, reid? 
speaker1: fletcher! â· it's philip.
speaker2: seven-thirty... it's karaoke time!

speaker1: you're saving my life, philip. 
speaker2: you know, it's funny, but for some reason i was beginning to think you didn't like me.
speaker3: no. it's not silly. i don't like you.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't like you. i'm sorry. i find you boring. i hate ch ara des . and you wouldn't know a good time if it sat on your face. i'm sorry. it was easier than telling you how i really felt. are you upset?
speaker2: no. to be honest, i don't like you either. you treat people like obstacles and you cheat at charades. .

speaker1: then why are you always trying to socialize with me? 
speaker2: you're a client. i figured if i didn't try to be your friend, you'd get a new accountant.
speaker1: philip, i don't like you as a person, but i'm crazy about you as my accountant. i ' d never hire a new accountant.
speaker2: so we don't have to like each other anymore?

speaker1: excuse me. . . excuse me. . . come on folks, let's let the frantic man pass... sorry... thank... you... standing on the right, passing on the left. they can't make this- deal any easier than it is... come on... coming through... 
speaker2: help the poor?...

speaker1: please step through again. 
speaker2: ahhh!! ! damn..;
speaker2: what? i'tii practically naked!

speaker1: n ooo!!! 
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker3: look out!! ! --

speaker1: then, fletcher looks ahead and his eyes go wide! 
speaker2: the runway is ending!.

speaker1: checks under his 
speaker2: it's right here, honey.
speaker3: mom! mom!! '
speaker1: just a second, max.
speaker4: mom, it's dad!
speaker5: w hat? what about dad?
speaker1: fletcher?!

speaker1: mumbles to 
speaker2: oh boy, the truth hurts. yes indeed.
speaker3: mr. reid. someone made bail for you.

speaker1: greta? is that you? 
speaker1: sorry i made you miss your flight, not really. you're obviously a little . upset, not that i blame you... although i'll bet you'll still get the bonus miles. . .
speaker2: fletcher, are you crazy?
speaker3: that's two questions. a; yes, but i think the legal term is temporarily insane. and b; i was trying to finally have that talk with you about boston.
speaker1: okay, okay... the whole truth and nothing but the truth,
speaker1: i tried to stop the plane because it was taking off with my life... you and max.

speaker1: i know you've met somebody... somebody pretty great... and the truth is i wish you didn't but you did and... all i ' m asking i s . . . please don't move to boston. please don't take max away. 
speaker2: you can come visit anytime.
speaker1: i don't want to visit him. that's what i've been doing-- visiting him, dropping by, stopping in. i want to be in his life. i don't want to be some jerk that sees him at easter. i want to be his father.
speaker1: i know i have no right to ask, but can i talk you out of taki ng that job? i can get you a better job here in l.a. i've got all kinds of connect ions... what do you do again?
speaker3: i design security systems.
speaker1: how symbolic. okay great.
speaker3: the biggest.
speaker1: one of their systems shorted out and burned down a supermarket. i got them off. another proud day for justice. if i ask them they'll beat your boston offer in two s ec on ds . ..

speaker1: don't put jerry in the middle. 
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker2: to me. all i want is for this lady and max to be happy. preferably, with me. whatever they want, i'll go along with.
speaker1: all i want is for max to be happy.
speaker1: you better know your jury. you're hot exactly max's hero today.
speaker3: just let me present my case.

speaker1: i have been sent from the future to destroy you. . . argghhh! 
speaker2: you mad at me?
speaker3: you wanted me to stop lying. but lying isn't the problem. .. why we lie ~ that's the problem. sometimes we lie to make someone else feel better. but sometimes we lie because the truth gets in our way... but being an adult means you sacrifice some things for more
speaker3: important things. much more important things. i was so stupid, max. malfunction in vector one. all this time you've been here and i could see you anytime i felt like it. and i... didn't. please don't go to boston. max, i love you more than anything else in the world and you know it's true. i couldn't say it if it weren't true. not today.
speaker4: he's telling the truth, mom. he's not allowed to lie. i made a wish and anything dad says has to be the truth. .. right?
speaker3: max. .. it's 9:22.
speaker5: what?
speaker3: max, you made the wish at 9:15. i've been able to lie for the last seven minutes.
speaker4: so then, you were...
speaker3: no! it wasn't a lie. i just wanted to be honest with you and tell you -- there was no wish to guarantee it anymore. you just have to believe me.

speaker1: mommy... do we have to go to boston? 
speaker2: no. we don't have to.
speaker1: can we play catch tomorrow?

speaker1: dad! ! 
speaker2: ma x i mu m ! !
speaker3: transformer!!! .
speaker4: malfunction in vector seven. i have lost control of my affection reflex...
speaker4: procreate! procreate!
speaker5: fletcher... you're gonna lose a limb--

speaker1: come on, dad, let's play catch!! 
speaker2: sr. . .
speaker3: starts to toss
speaker4: here you go, mom. oh, you mean with a ball...
speaker2: i take back every dirty, dishonest thing i ever said about you, wrote about you, faxed about you, e-mailed about you.
speaker5: appreciated.
speaker2: so, you up for a little friendly competition?
speaker5: no, you go play with your son.
speaker2: i wasn't talking about basesball.
speaker2: alright, it's time to show you the old fletcher reid change up.

