speaker1: i'm not sorry. so i spend the rest of my life in jail. so what? i've been in jail my whole life anyway. a jail of blood and tissue and coursing hormones... 
speaker1: ...a jail called the human body.
speaker1: my soul held prisoner in this reeking, stench-ridden bag of bones and entrails. a bag of feces and and fibroid cysts in my and precancerous moles on my sun-damaged back...
speaker1: at least now i'll be able to blame the state, not for my incarceration.

speaker1: i am sorry, gentlemen, sorry for all of us. your's is a complicated, sad world. 
speaker1: and i never knew that. i was living a life of simplicity, of purity, when i was ripped out of my eden and immersed in this harshness. some would argue that the life i was living was not a human life at all. and, gentlemen, i don't have any clever retort. i am not a philosopher. the only thing i know is that i am sorry, sorry for my expulsion from eden, sorry for my lila rotting in her jail cell, and sorry for nathan... rotting in his grave.

speaker1: my story begins when i was twelve. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: hey, no fair! 
speaker2: drop dead, eric.
speaker3: something terrible started to happen to my body when i was twelve. my mother said because of it i would never be able to get a man, so i should get used to the idea of dedicating my life to the pursuit of knowledge, or religion... or whatever.
speaker3: the doctor said...

speaker1: it's hormonal. nature is a funny and complex thing. it could get worse with time. 
speaker2: by the time i was twenty i looked like an ape.

speaker1: he had been committed the previous year after applying one too many times at our local zoo for the job of "apprentice ape." 
speaker1: my father saw what the human race had come to while he was... in captivity. he felt something had to be done to create a better world.

speaker1: monkeys! look, mama, monkeys! 
speaker2: nathan, those are not monkeys. those are apes. mountain gorillas to be precise.
speaker3: i am not a human being! i am an animal!
speaker2: and furthermore... tell him, harold.
speaker4: uh... we must never act like apes, son. for you see, the ape is our closest biological relative -- specifically the pygmy chimp. a single chromosome separates us. but you know what truly separates us from the apes, what makes us better than apes?
speaker1: no, papa. what?
speaker4: culture. civilization. refinement. if we do not have these as humans, then we might as well be living in pens and throwing our feces about, masturbating in public... ...sniffing red swollen female rump...
speaker2: enough, harold.

speaker1: lila, what are you doing in there? i need to get ready for my date. 
speaker2: nothing! i'll be out in a minute!
speaker1: look, i'll just... what the...?

speaker1: i don't know why you didn't tell me about this. 
speaker2: it's embarrassing, okay?
speaker1: it's not so bad. so, it just keeps growing?
speaker2: yeah, natalie. it's hair. it grows.
speaker1: well, don't jump down my throat. i'm just trying to help.
speaker2: how is that helping, natalie? how exactly?
speaker1: look, if you're going to be like that... you should be appreciative that i'm interested.
speaker2: why, because i'm a freak and you are beautiful, and you are being nice enough to come down to my freak, nonbeautiful level and act concerned about my repulsive troubles?
speaker1: you're up, lila. why don't you try electrolysis or something? figure it out for chrissake.
speaker2: at sixty dollars an hour, electrolysis was not a feasible solution. i explored my alternatives.

speaker1: i remember once coming across a painting of mary magdalene entirely covered with fur. i guess that's where i got the idea that maybe the catholic church might be a place that encouraged excessive hair growth in its women. 
speaker1: so i became a nun.
speaker1: heavenly father... ...please let this hair go away.
speaker1: but my prayers were always so selfish.

speaker1: i tried being a lesbian separatist. 
speaker2: a woman without a man / is like a fish without a bicycle.
speaker1: but i guess i just wasn't attracted to women, even hostile, man-hating, hairy ones who wore sensible shoes.

speaker1: during the holiday season, they made us wear costumes. 
speaker1: ho ho ho.
speaker2: that's not real.
speaker1: ow! you little
speaker1: aside from the great dental, this occupation was not pleasant.

speaker1: the way that mouse looked at me. there was no judgement. it didn't care if i had hair all over my body. i was just what i was. i felt so free. do you understand what i'm saying? 
speaker2: something about a mouse, right?

speaker1: i knew it was coming when in late afternoon, a thunderhead drifted over, sneaking in like kids through the back door of a movie theater, forced casual. it turned the sky a queer shade of green. a green that said "watch out, baby, this is gonna hurt like hell." i could've hightailed, but that would be cheating. part of the nature experience is recognizing its mastery over you, your smallness in the face of it. lightning hits a tree nearby. it falls with a smack 
speaker1: as nietzsche said, what does not kill me makes me stronger, and that goes double if you're a woman.

speaker1: by the time i was thirty i was very, very horny. 
speaker1: i had to have a man in my... life. at any cost. i would become what i needed to become to achieve this. i would become a hairless lie.
speaker1: i was rich enough for electrolysis by this time, so i began the long arduous process of having each inappropriate hair burned out of my body at the root.

speaker1: progress! 
speaker2: ouch. yeah?
speaker1: oh yes, honey. getting to be smooth smooth smooth all over. smooth as a baby's
speaker2: i love it, rose. i'm getting to be a real girl.
speaker1: you still in the market for a real boy?
speaker2: always. ow.
speaker1: cause there's this guy. my brother knows him. might be right up your alley.
speaker2: tell me. i could use someone up my alley.
speaker1: i don't get that. is that sexual?
speaker2: shut up and tell me.
speaker1: handsome, thirties, psychologist...
speaker2: loves animals? ouch. must love animals, rose.
speaker1: loves animals. loves you.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: somehow it came up that you were a friend of mine. mr. handsome, animal- loving psychologist said he would love to meet you.
speaker2: holy your brother didn't tell him about the nature of our relationship, did he?
speaker1: my brother is discreet.
speaker2: won't he be able to tell?
speaker1: my brother says the guy's a thirty- five year old virgin, so maybe he won't know how women usually feel. plus he's got bad eyesight, almost legally blind, which is helpful in this situation. plus he's got an extremely small penis, of which he is "mortifyingly ashamed", so chances are he'll be so grateful for any non- judgmental attention, that he'll be yours forever.
speaker2: he must be really close to your brother to tell him such personal stuff.
speaker1: yeah, well my brother is his shrink.

speaker1: meditations on a banana slug was a delightful read. 
speaker2: thank you so much. i love slugs. all slugs, not just banana slugs.
speaker1: as do i.
speaker2: they're so even keel. they forge ahead with slow determination. they don't get distracted or side-tracked. they don't care what they look like. they don't care that people look at them and go, "ewww. a slug."
speaker1: they don't seem to be especially ego driven, this is true.
speaker2: you've got to respect that.
speaker1: i have to say that i'm not there yet.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: slugdom. sluggishness. whatever you'd call it. i'm not there yet. i still have many human characteristics.
speaker2: that's not necessarily a bad thing.
speaker1: yes. i suppose not. but still. one would like to move along. to move beyond.
speaker2: i'm not sure we can escape our natures. believe me i've tried. i'm not even so sure anymore that we should want to.
speaker1: i love that you said that. it makes me feel a bit lighter. i've been rather heavy lately. thinking about my childhood. realizing how much a product i am of my upbringing. i've been seeing someone. a therapist.
speaker2: you are a therapist, right?
speaker1: no no. i'm a psychologist, but i do research. i'm a behaviorist. i work with animals. mice at the moment.
speaker2: i hope you don't perform any of those dreadful torture experiments, nathan.
speaker1: heavens no. my work now is... right now i'm teaching mice... well, table manners, to be candid.
speaker2: how's it going?
speaker1: quite well, really. it's a lot of work. a lot of reinforcement, mostly positive. right now i've gotten two of my subjects to use napkins. tiny napkins of course.
speaker2: paper or cloth?
speaker1: i hope you don't think me daft. it's important work. it's part of a larger sociological experiment. i'm federally funded.
speaker2: what's the larger experiment?
speaker1: it's my thesis that if table manners can be taught to mice, they can be taught to humans.
speaker2: going out on a limb, aren't you, nathan?
speaker1: the truth is most people don't have table manners today. and when the foundations of civilized society crumble and disappear, civilized society in its entirely follows closely at its heels.
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker1: courtesy, decorum, manners, are all sadly lacking from our daily intercourse. rudeness, vulgarity, meanness are the norm.
speaker2: we are animals after all.
speaker1: ergo if i can teach table manners to mice, i can teach them to humans. if i can teach table manners to humans, i can save the world.

speaker1: so? 
speaker2: i really like him, rose. he's so... ...passionate about his work.
speaker1: my brother says he likes you, too.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah. says he likes you even more than he likes his own mother. and according to my brother nathan's abormally close with his mother.

speaker1: lord, we thank you for this bountiful gift we are about to receive. 
speaker2: amen.
speaker3: my no! my oh, nathan.
speaker3: that is the wrong fork, young man. harold, tell the boy.
speaker1: that is the wrong fork, young man.
speaker4: i'll use the right one. i'm sorry. i forgot.
speaker3: harold, tell the boy more.
speaker1: too late. go to your room.
speaker4: but...
speaker3: harold! tell the boy again.
speaker1: no "buts." go to your room now.
speaker3: and?
speaker1: and think about what you've done.

speaker1: and do you think maybe this early childhood indoctrination has something to do with your interest in table manners in the present. 
speaker2: i don't think so. no.
speaker2: why do you ask?

speaker1: it looks wonderful. 
speaker2: you look wonderful. i'm on top of the world tonight, lila. work is going splendidly and my personal life is ...
speaker1: um-mmm. oh nathan, this salad is delish...
speaker2: my the fork! the fork!
speaker1: i'm sorry?
speaker2: tell her, harold... it's just that... it's nothing. it's just that the outside fork is the salad fork. one goes from the outside in as the dinner progresses.
speaker1: oh, i'm sorry. i'm sorry, nathan. i never really learned those things.
speaker2: no biggie.
speaker1: boy, this is good!
speaker2: i'm sorry that i became so upset.
speaker1: no, i'm sorry. i'm really backward in certain areas.
speaker2: it's only that i really enjoy your company and...
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: yes, and...
speaker1: you really enjoy my company?
speaker2: yes. please don't talk with food in your mouth, lila. please. you're so pretty and it only mars your... i'm sorry. i'm being critical. nathan pounds his forehead with his fist. lila waves her hand to indicate that it's fine. she doesn't say anything because she's chewing.
speaker2: it's just that i have some peculiarities, and...
speaker1: i like you, too, nathan.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: yeah but i have some peculiarities also.
speaker2: i don't care. i don't care! like what, for example?
speaker1: like nothing.

speaker1: my brother says things are going really well between you and nathan. 
speaker2: i cannot believe how in love i am with this man.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: he's so cute. i even like his cute little penis. it's like a little pig's or something. rose, we connect on every level. i've finally found someone i can feel completely safe with.
speaker1: don't throw that away. i had that once with a guy. but i threw it away for a cheap thrill.
speaker2: one night stand?
speaker1: no. i married a midget.
speaker2: marrying a midget was a cheap thrill?
speaker1: well he wasn't really a midget. he was on the cusp of midgethood. that's what made it cheap. had he been an actual midget, there would've been nothing cheap about it, my dear.
speaker2: i didn't know you were into that sort of thing.
speaker1: let me tell you, honey, midgets are the best kept secret in male companionship. they're portable. they're controllable. they're eager. and they're exactly the right height for a little covert oral fun on the dance floor.
speaker2: i have a friend you might like to meet.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: three foot one.
speaker1: be still my crotch.
speaker2: rose, nathan's no midget, but he's asked me to move in with him.
speaker1: yeah. my brother told me.
speaker2: and i think i'm going to.
speaker1: stand on a stepladder sometimes.

speaker1: lila moved in with me. did i love her? i thought so. but from my new vantage point i realize that love is nothing more than a messy conglomeration of need, desperation, fear of death, insecurity about size, and the self-involved, ego driven need to collect other people's hearts. not that i judge it. listen, i don't want to be dead yet. is there any way to... 
speaker1: no i suppose not. no biggie. anyway, lila moved in. we had our problems, but we both wanted love so badly, we turned a blind eye.

speaker1: it's lovely to finally meet you, mr. and mrs. bronfman. i've heard so much about you and i've seen you in photographs from nathan's childhood, but it's nice to meet you in the flesh. i must say, you look exactly the same as in the photographs. 
speaker2: thank you, dear.
speaker3: actually, mother and father, you look very, very old. you look terrible.
speaker1: nathan!
speaker2: tell him, harold.
speaker4: son, your mother and i are doing a production of the gin game at the local community theater. we forgot to take off our make-up.
speaker1: goodness, you two look exactly as you did in those old photos.
speaker2: yes, so you mentioned earlier, dear.
speaker3: lila's a nature writer, mother.
speaker2: i love nature. as long as it stays in the zoo where it belongs.
speaker2: don't you agree, dear?
speaker3: of course she does, mother.

speaker1: what are you doing in there? 
speaker2: i'll be out in a minute.
speaker1: i'm sorry about my parents.
speaker2: you didn't seem sorry when you were laughing at all your mother's stupid, tasteless, cruel animal jokes.
speaker1: i was simply attempting to keep the evening light. you know that i feel similarly to you about nature.
speaker2: do you?
speaker1: of course. i simply love the... naturalness of it all.
speaker2: do you? oh do you, darling?
speaker1: why certainly!
speaker2: oh, darling. i'm so relieved. let's celebrate with a long hike in the woods tomorrow!
speaker1: that's a great idea.
speaker2: it'll be wonderful! i'll show you my old stomping grounds!
speaker1: terrific. can't wait!
speaker1: shaving cream?
speaker2: i don't think so. why?

speaker1: darling, did you bring the insect repellent lotion? 
speaker2: yes, darling.
speaker1: oh, and the sun block?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: what spf, sweetie?
speaker2: fifteen.
speaker1: perfectomundo! we are ready! say, wouldn't it be wonderful to have an insect repellent lotion that also worked as a sun block? think of all the time one would save.
speaker2: yes, darling.
speaker1: i think i'll get johannsen in chemistry on that. oh! did you bring the first aid kit?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: flares?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: we could call it "quit bugging me, sunny." get it? sunny. s-u-n-n-y.
speaker2: that's very funny.
speaker1: i love you so much.

speaker1: did you see that? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't know. something.
speaker2: a deer?
speaker1: no. too... upright. might've been a person.
speaker2: it might behoove us to turn back at this point.
speaker1: come on.
speaker2: if it's a person, why should we go see it? it's not like it's nature or anything. it's just a person. sometimes people who live in the woods don't want to be seen. they live in the woods because they're anti-social, lila. we have to respect that. lila trudges through the brush. nathan follows. better than being left behind.
speaker2: this is the way to get ticks, lila. this is it. bingo! lyme disease! you've hit the nail on the head here.
speaker2: oh for sa...

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker1: you don't understand my language, do you?
speaker1: oh
speaker2: oh my is he dead? please put something on.
speaker2: you'll catch cold. it's cold. what do you suppose he is, a survivalist?
speaker1: i think he's feral.
speaker2: feral? don't touch him! he might be diseased! he might... my rabies!
speaker1: he looks perfectly fine.
speaker2: i think we should go. please. before he wakes up and, i don't know, eats us, or whatever feral things do.
speaker1: i don't understand you. this is fascinating and you just want to run away. i mean, here we have a human being totally uncontaminated by civilization, totally free, and all you want to do is run back to your...
speaker2: actually, i just had an amusing thought.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: feral, huh? totally uncontaminated?
speaker1: look at him. he doesn't understand english. he moves like an animal.
speaker2: it's perfect!
speaker1: nathan, what the are you talking about?
speaker2: forget mice! actually forget guinea pigs, cats, monkeys, and chimps also. i'm on to stage five: the human subject.
speaker1: oh no. you can't take him from his home, nathan.
speaker2: don't you see? he's my tabula rasa, my eliza dolittle. he's my ticket to the top of the behaviorist food chain. he's going to make me famous.
speaker1: i won't allow you. it's wrong. he's happy here.
speaker2: is he, lila? is he happy living filthy and naked alone in this tick infested wilderness? never to know the love of a good woman, never to revel in the pitter-patter of little feet, never to read moby dick, or marvel at a monet, or just sit back after a day of hard but rewarding work, smoke a pipe, and wonder about the nature of reality.
speaker1: you'd be taking away his freedom, nathan.
speaker2: freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose, lila, to quote janet jackson.
speaker2: belonging to something, a person or a society, is a basic human craving. we are communal creatures. this poor soul has no one, nothing...

speaker1: ...what is it that makes us human, if not the knowledge that we are indeed human? think of this poor soul's education as the greatest gift we could bestow upon... 
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: great. grab his feet. we'll throw him in the trunk.

speaker1: doctor... 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker2: only three shocks. a chimp takes fifteen. this is going to be tres simple, no, gabrielle?
speaker1: oui, doctor, oui.
speaker2: good morning... we need a name for him, don't we?
speaker1: oui.
speaker2: you decide. today is your day.
speaker1: really? my day? well, i had a sweet little mongrel puppie named puff when i was a girl. this one reminds me of my dog, all shaggy! so cute! i loved my doggie very much, monsieur.
speaker2: puff it is then. puff bronfman. is that okay?
speaker1: oui. perfect!
speaker2: good morning, puff bronfman. i'm dr. bronfman and this is my assistant gabrielle. we're your mommy and daddy while you are here. gabrielle likes this concept a great deal. she smiles and moves closer to nathan.
speaker2: how about some salad, son?

speaker1: dr. bronfman! dr. bronfman! 
speaker2: oh, hi, gabrielle.
speaker1: hi. i just wanted to tell you that i very much enjoy working with you. now i'm embarrassed that i say this.
speaker2: no. don't be. i really enjoy hearing that. you're a terrific assistant.
speaker1: merci. i... do you... would you like to go get a cup of coffee, perhaps?
speaker2: well, i don't know. i'm actually on my way to...
speaker1: now i am truly embarrassed. forgive me. i should not have asked such a stupid question. i know you are a very important man and...
speaker2: no. don't be silly. it's just...
speaker1: i am a foolish little thing. i am pink in my face, no? it is only that i have been so lonely lately and... i am ashamed. i'll see you tomorrow, okay? unless... am i fired now?

speaker1: thank you so much for accompanying me. 
speaker2: not at all.
speaker1: i have had such a difficult time in my personal life and you seem to be such a nice man... but i'm talking too much again, no?
speaker2: of course not.
speaker1: you're so sweet. oh, why are there not more men out there like you?
speaker2: there there.
speaker1: you know just the right thing to say.
speaker2: listen, you're the best assistant i've ever had... gabrielle.
speaker1: i like it when you say my name. is that stupid?

speaker1: what are you doing in there? 
speaker2: nothing. be right out.
speaker1: hello? oh, hi... gabrielle!
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: uh-huh. right, gabrielle. right.
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: absolutely, gabrielle. someone from work! sorry about that, gabrielle. uh-huh. exactly.
speaker2: who from work?
speaker1: excuse me one second, would you, gabrielle?
speaker2: who is it, nathan?
speaker1: look, lila, when i'm on a work...
speaker2: nathan, i...

speaker1: it's hormonal, nathan. i can't help it. i'm sorry. 
speaker2: your entire body?
speaker1: i'm getting electrolysis. it's working, but it takes time. so meanwhile i have to...
speaker2: you have to shave? like an ape?
speaker1: apes don't shave, you son of a
speaker2: don't quibble. you know what i mean.
speaker1: i'm sorry. please don't be mad at me for this.
speaker2: mad? i'm i'm... disgusted!
speaker1: i'm the same person i was before you knew, it! oh
speaker2: i have to think! i have to think!
speaker1: oh why... do... i... have... to... be... like... oh, no! oh, hello? hello? is anyone there? who's there?

speaker1: i don't get it. i don't get it. i don't get it. how could i find myself in this mess? this is a mess. this is not a situation i understand. this is a mess. how do i extricate myself from this mess? is my girlfriend a man? i don't understand. this is not part of any plan. she deceived me. she has hair. but am i being fair? so what if she has hair? who am i to judge? i have hair. but i'm supposed to have hair. i am a man. men are supposed to have hair. but poor lila. think of what she's had to go through. the courage she's had to have in the face of this abomination of nature. i should love her all the more. i should love every hair on her body. i mean, she doesn't mind that i have a mortifyingly small... 
speaker2: oh, doctor. i did not know. i'm sorry to disturb you. i just came for some papers i left.
speaker1: gabrielle. no, i'm sorry if i startled you. i came to think. did i hang up on you?
speaker2: oui. perhaps i called at a bad time. i am sorry.
speaker1: no. i just got distracted. i'm so sorry.
speaker2: is everything fine?
speaker1: oui. now you've got me talking french.
speaker2: i was in my p.j.'s when i remembered i left some papers i need to go over. see? i rushed right out of the house. i must look a mess. i'm so embarrassed.
speaker1: i'm in my p.j.'s, too. funny, huh?
speaker2: coincidence, yes? and how is our son?
speaker1: our...? oh! he seems fine. i guess we woke him. the lights and all.
speaker2: i should turn them off. maybe i sing him a lullaby my mama sang to me when i was a little girl.
speaker1: when you were a little french girl?
speaker2: oui.
speaker1: that would be good.
speaker2: there.
speaker2: shall we close up, then?
speaker1: maybe we should just sit for a while. it's very peaceful.
speaker2: it's nice, yes. i'm glad i ran into you, both in our silly pajamas. it is two happy coincidences, no?
speaker1: yes. happy happy.
speaker2: yet you look so sad. a great man like you should not be sad.
speaker1: i'm fine. life is funny, that's all.
speaker2: i am sleepy.
speaker1: i shouldn't say this, but you're pretty, gabrielle. it's unprofessional, i know.
speaker2: really? i always think myself so ugly. no, not ugly, but plain. a wallflower.
speaker1: really? no. not at all. you're a very pretty girl. you should know that. you should be confident.
speaker2: thank you so much. merci. it's very wonderful to hear a man say such a nice compliment.
speaker1: it's true. i wouldn't lie.
speaker2: you are sweet.
speaker2: doctor.
speaker1: so soft. so smooth. i'm sorry. it's just...
speaker2: shh.

speaker1: was that okay? i mean, was i able to... satisfy you? 
speaker2: you are an animal.
speaker1: really? wow! that's that's terrific to hear from someone so... feminine, so female.
speaker2: i love being female because it, how do you say, allows me to be close to men.
speaker1: i'm glad you're female. do you think our boy witnessed the primal scene?
speaker3: anyway it's time he grew up. n'est- ce pa? i love chest hair on a man. i know it isn't fashionable now, hairy men. but to me it is the very sign of masculinity.
speaker3: what is wrong, my darling?
speaker1: nothing, my darling. all is right with the world.
speaker4: i saw it, gentlemen. i saw the whole sweaty, passionate, ugly, beautiful act, and to use the vernacular, i wanted me some of that.
speaker4: and i think i understood from that moment, that in order to get some, i would have to do what they said. in order to experience this primal, basic, animal thing, i would first have to become a civilized, prissy, uptight human. i would have to become nathan.

speaker1: perfect. perfect, puff! 
speaker2: dr. bronfman's line. yes. one moment please. lila.
speaker1: hi, honey.

speaker1: so, how's it going today? 
speaker2: good. making progress.
speaker1: honey, can we talk tonight? you know, about stuff? things have been so strained for the past three weeks, since you know, and i just want to talk.

speaker1: everything's fine, honey. we don't need to talk. besides i have to work late. 
speaker2: please, nathan. i really need this. you've been working late a lot.
speaker1: okay, we'll have dinner tonight.
speaker1: yeah. okay. be home around seven. bye. what? i'm sorry. what was i supposed to do?
speaker3: i don't know, nathan. what are you supposed to do?
speaker1: you don't abandon somebody because they have a physical problem.
speaker3: funny. i thought that's exactly what you did. you just don't have the courage to admit it to yourself.

speaker1: are you seeing somebody else, nathan? i just have to know. 
speaker2: of course not.
speaker1: it would just be helpful to know.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: because, you know, you seem so distant. and you work late every night. and we hardly ever have sex, and when we do, it's... i don't know. it feels different.
speaker2: i'm just preoccupied.
speaker1: do you like my new look?
speaker2: yeah. it's nice. it's really good.
speaker1: i'm trying, you know. i'm trying to be what you want. i want to be what you want, nathan. all i want is to be what you want.
speaker2: shh. it's okay. it's okay, lila. you're what i want. you know that. you're exactly what i want.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: sure. of course.
speaker1: because i'm really trying, you know. rosie says maybe only another two years of the elctrolysis.
speaker2: that's great.
speaker1: i've signed up for a ballet class. and look at my nails! a real girl!
speaker2: that's great. it's a great color for you.
speaker1: oh, nathan, let's have a baby!

speaker1: so anyway, that's the nightmare i've been having lately. 
speaker2: do you suppose it has anything to do with lila's unusually hairy body?
speaker1: no, why?
speaker2: well, it seems that since lila broached the subject of children, you've been on edge and i know you have an issue with the, uh, body hair.
speaker1: oh, i see. yes, that's something to think about. that's very good. that's what you get the big bucks, right? ha ha.
speaker2: i just think it might be important to explore your feelings for lila.
speaker1: i love lila. i mean, she's a wonderful person. and... she loves me! that's no small potatoes. i mean she really loves me. she's sacrificed so much to be in this relationship with me. and she's a good person. a truly good person. how rare is that in this world, eh? and how could i stop loving somebody because of a little physical imperfection, if it can even be called that. i mean, knows i'm not perfect! what about my eyesight? it's lousy, that's what! lila's not going to leave me because of my eyesight. what about my penis?
speaker2: and how do you feel about gabrielle?

speaker1: good-eve-n-ing-lay-dees-and-gent- elmen. 
speaker2: bravo, puff! bravo!
speaker2: isn't puff doing spectacularly, honey?
speaker3: hmmmph.
speaker2: gabby, what is it?
speaker3: hmmph. hmmph. nathan, we have to talk, you and i.
speaker2: fine.
speaker3: not in front of the boy.
speaker2: very well.

speaker1: my little french. 
speaker2: stop. get away.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: you have to choose nathan. it's like sophie's choice. only it is nathan's choice. did you ever see that movie, sophie's choice? it is like that. only it is this.
speaker1: gabby, you know i'm trying to sort things out.
speaker2: no! it is now that you must decide. i love you, doctor nathan... ...but i will not wait. i will not be your chippy. i will not be your little mademoiselle parlez-vous side dish. my love. i want to have a sweet tiny baby inside my belly... from you.

speaker1: i love you so much, gabrielle. 
speaker2: but?... but? there is a "but," nathan.
speaker1: but i don't know how to leave lila.
speaker1: now there's a butt, nathan.

speaker1: oh! i didn't see you there, sneaky boy! you're like a boy sneaking in... 
speaker2: ...the back door of a movie theater. yes, indeed.
speaker1: you remember that from my book? i'm touched! what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing. hard day. gonna have a drink.
speaker1: i'll make it. i'm so happy, nathan! everything's going to be so great! scotch on the rocks, right? just kidding. i know what you drink, mister. i know what you drink. voila!
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: how's work?
speaker2: cruddy, okay? are you satisfied?
speaker1: no. i don't want your work to be cruddy.
speaker2: my assistant quit today. okay? he was highly valuable to the project.
speaker1: oh, baby. i'm sorry. can't you hire somebody else?
speaker2: i guess.
speaker1: hey! i could come work for you! i know i haven't been all that supportive of this project, but i've come around.
speaker2: have you?
speaker1: oh yes, baby! i think that this is a wonderful project you're doing, taking this poor unfortunate, uncivilized creature and turning him into a human being! what a wonderful wonderful compassionate man you are!
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yes! and i want to help. you won't have to pay me, and i was thinking of giving up that crazy nature writing anyway.
speaker2: how come?
speaker1: who needs it? i have you and i have being a woman and i have thinking about womanly things! i love being a woman because...
speaker2: such as what womanly things?
speaker1: such as my man and how to please him! such as making wonderful dinners for my man! such as looking pretty for my man! and i'm writing an article on quilting for the ladies home journal!

speaker1: bravo to you, puff! 
speaker2: that was wonderful!

speaker1: you were wonderful today, darling. such authority with the ape-man boy. it made me so hot for you. 
speaker2: unnhh.
speaker1: the way you are taming him, it sends chills down my girlish spine and... everywhere else, too.
speaker2: urgh.
speaker1: take me, darling! tame your little monkey of love!
speaker3: well, i'm tamed, dr. bronfman.
speaker2: i'm glad... my assistant.

speaker1: i think he's ready. 
speaker2: oh boy!
speaker3: oh boy!
speaker1: now, puff, we're leaving on the electronic collar. i don't think we'll need to shock you, but just in case.
speaker3: okay. that's fair.
speaker1: no, puff! bad!
speaker3: my apologies, madam.
speaker2: it's okay, puff.
speaker3: shan't happen again.

speaker1: this is great, puff. you're doing fine. 
speaker2: i'm loving this. it's such a treat to be out and about. what a wonderful invention a city is. the immense buildings of glass and steel glinting in the afternoon sun, the smartly dressed women in their best summer frocks, the colorful street vendors.
speaker3: how is everything?
speaker2: just spectacular. great salmon. fantastico! you've got to give me the recipe! my compliments to the chef!
speaker3: i'm glad you...
speaker1: puff, no!
speaker3: and will that be all today?

speaker1: it shan't happen again. i swear it. i'm just getting my sea legs, you know. 
speaker2: it's an animal urge, puff. it's nothing to be ashamed of.
speaker3: lila! tell him.
speaker2: you just have to control it. we're not apes.
speaker3: thank you very much for that.

speaker1: i don't think this aversion therapy is really necessary, doctor. i understand the problem. 
speaker2: humor me, puff. it's essential that i am able to trust you to function independently in the world.
speaker1: i bow to your expertise in these matters.
speaker2: lila?
speaker2: good. you're doing fine.
speaker2: excellent.
speaker2: you're doing very nicely, puff. i'm pleased.
speaker2: great...
speaker1: eh.
speaker2: excellent work, puff. extra desert tonight.
speaker1: yahoo!
speaker2: tomorrow, the acid test.

speaker1: how you all doin' today? 
speaker2: very well.
speaker3: very well.
speaker4: very well.
speaker1: good enough! what can i get for you?
speaker2: puff, why don't you order first?
speaker4: uh, what's a reuben, please?
speaker1: the what, honey? oh, the reuben? that's a sandwich with corned beef and sauer...
speaker4: that's fine. that's what i'll have. corned beef is a good food.

speaker1: puff, i'm proud of you! you did remarkably well under difficult circumstances. 
speaker2: absolutely!
speaker3: did i? i tried so hard! i really concentrated! oh, i'm so happy!
speaker1: and because you did so well, we have a little surprise for you.
speaker3: extra dessert?
speaker1: even better.

speaker1: surprise! 
speaker2: free to come and go as you please. there's some "mad money" in the night table drawer.
speaker3: it's wonderful! do you think i'm ready? do you really?
speaker2: i trust that you'll make good, mature decisions. i trust that you'll do the proper thing.
speaker3: oh, i will! your very trust has instilled an enormous sense of responsibility in me. i don't want to disappoint you.
speaker2: good. remember, when in doubt: don't ever do what you really want to do.
speaker3: got it.

speaker1: i'm going to go down and check on puff. see how he's holding up. 
speaker2: should i come with?
speaker1: nah. you just relax. how's the book?
speaker2: ummm. it's good.
speaker1: i won't be long.

speaker1: you're kidding! holy yeah, no duh! i had a wild hair up my over that for a month. 
speaker1: yeah? what?
speaker2: hi. it's nathan.
speaker1: call you back. you bastard! what do you want?
speaker2: i just want to talk.
speaker1: we have nothing to say! you are a rotten bastard, that's what!

speaker1: please. just one minute of your time. 
speaker2: why? you've made your decision, mister stinky american! now i hate you! no, i don't hate you; i don't even think about you!
speaker1: i've got some things to tell you.

speaker1: like what? 
speaker2: well, i think it would be easier if i could talk to you in person.
speaker1: what for?

speaker1: well, i think... 
speaker2: you think too much. i need a man who doesn't think so much but acts more than he thinks... is what i need!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you heard me! you make me sick when you pretend to not understand what i am saying to you! go away from here!
speaker1: well, look, i'm sorry to have bothered you.
speaker2: all right, already! come in if you must! the door's open, you son of a

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: you're beautiful.
speaker1: please. i look a mess.
speaker2: no. you look so beautiful.
speaker1: anyway. come already to the point.
speaker2: i'm... i'm going to leave lila. i can't stop thinking about you.
speaker1: i've moved on.
speaker2: no!
speaker1: i've been seeing johannsen in chemistry.
speaker2: that neanderthal? i'm the one who gave him the idea for the combination bug spray-sun screen! did you know that?!
speaker1: that's not how he tells it.
speaker2: of course not, that swedish thief! he's a thief of hearts! i love you, gabrielle.
speaker1: hunh.
speaker2: just give me some time to let lila down easily. she's a really nice girl and i don't want to hurt her more than is necessary.
speaker2: can you ever forgive me?

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: you were gone a long time.
speaker1: yeah. puff and i got into a big, philosophical discussion. he's really quite well read, considering he's only been literate for a month now. he's going to make us famous, lila.
speaker2: so he's doing okay?
speaker1: seemed fine. quiet evening enjoying his new digs.
speaker2: that's funny because, you know, i just went and picked him up at some flophouse on the lower eastside. he called here when he ran out of his "mad" money after spending an entire evening drinking, watching strippers, and a whore! oh, and what did you do tonight, honey?
speaker1: 
speaker2: and what did you do tonight, honey?
speaker1: i've fallen in love with somebody else, lila.
speaker2: and what did you do tonight, honey?
speaker1: i her! okay? i her. i'm sorry. but that's what the i did.
speaker2: do you know what i gave up to be with you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i gave up my soul, my beliefs. i gave up my body hair!
speaker1: yeah, well, i'm sorry. the human heart is a strange thing.
speaker2: how the would you know anything about the human heart?
speaker1: lila...
speaker2: how's that for ladylike, nathan.

speaker1: no maid service! for sake, can't you read the "do not disturb" sign on the doorknob? 
speaker2: lila, it's rosie.
speaker1: go the away, rosie.
speaker2: please, honey, let me in.
speaker1: rose, please go away.
speaker2: lila, i want to help you.
speaker1: how'd you know where i was?
speaker2: nathan told my brother.
speaker1: your brother should have his license revoked.
speaker2: yeah, although i'm not going to turn him in. i like hearing the dirt.
speaker1: why didn't your brother tell you that nathan was having an affair?
speaker2: i don't know, honey. i don't know. maybe he just didn't want to get involved.
speaker1: oh, rosie.
speaker2: let's get you out of here. come stay with me until you get your strength back. free electrolysis, if you want it! we'll get that face of yours cleared up in no time.
speaker1: yeah. i gotta get myself together. i want to look good. if i'm gonna with nathan, and i am, i want him to want to me when i do it.

speaker1: ...and so without further ado, i give you dr. nathan bronfman and puff. 
speaker2: thank you. let's get right to it. here we have puff the day of his capture.
speaker2: and here he is today, a scant three months later.
speaker2: puff, why don't you say a few words to the assemblage.
speaker3: it would be my pleasure, doctor. distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the psychological community, i stand before you today, a living testament to the amazing skill of dr. nathan bronfman. to say that he took me from crayons to perfume would be a vast understatement. dr. bronfman took me from playing with my own feces, then to crayons, and then to an appreciation of the complex works of franz kline, joseph beuys, and marcel duchamp. from compulsive masturbation to...

speaker1: and, so, goodnight, adieu, until we meet again, au revoir. 
speaker2: you were wonderful!
speaker3: was i? i wasn't a tad stiff?
speaker2: don't be silly!
speaker3: come on, you two. let's go celebrate!

speaker1: done! 
speaker2: ready!

speaker1: so we've got seventeen new bookings for speaking engagements, my wonderful men. 
speaker2: terrific. we're all going to be rich and famous.
speaker3: thanks to you, nate.
speaker2: thanks to you, buddy. and your diligence and intelligence and perseverance.
speaker2: and of course to you, my sweet, for your... moral support.
speaker3: here, here.
speaker4: excuse me, are you dr. bronfman?
speaker3: is that a little boy?
speaker2: no, puff. this man is a midget. in actuality, they prefer to be called "little people." isn't that correct, my good man?
speaker4: yes sir. little people.
speaker2: this little person is actually a fully grown adult man, puff, believe it or not, who, due to a genetic anomaly, is miniature but perfectly proportioned. turn, please.
speaker3: interesting.
speaker2: now, my diminutive friend, what can i do for you?
speaker4: you can get into that lucite bachelor pad for starters, goliath.
speaker4: not you, joyboy.
speaker2: what is this about? we have no money on these premises. please if you are from some little person terrorist fringe group...
speaker4: shut up!
speaker2: lila?
speaker1: that's lila?
speaker5: shut up! yeah, this is lila, and don't let the hirsutism fool you. i know more about being a woman, and more about the black hearts of men than you, in your pretty little powdered, fantasy world, can ever imagine. i know the darkness and cruelty of nature, sweetie pie.
speaker2: lila, you don't intend to hurt us, do you?
speaker5: eat thumbtack thank you, frank. you're the best.
speaker4: anything for you, lila.
speaker5: see, frank and i are kindred spirits. we both know what it's like to be shunned because of our appearance. we both know how easily that turns into self-hatred.
speaker4: amen. praise the lord and pass the ammunition!

speaker1: uh, tie them up, rosie. if you will. 
speaker2: with pleasure.

speaker1: i'm going to miss you. 
speaker2: oh, rosie.
speaker1: and i'm going to miss the lifestyle having you as a client has afforded me.
speaker2: shut up, you.
speaker1: i like you so much, with or without hair. but don't spread that around. bad for business.
speaker2: i'm really glad you two found each other.
speaker3: we're soul mates.
speaker1: souls have nothing to do with it, babe.
speaker2: i'll be in touch.
speaker1: no you won't. but it's okay. you have stuff you gotta do.
speaker2: gotta go.

speaker1: out. 
speaker1: bad.
speaker1: get up.
speaker1: take off your clothes.
speaker1: we're going back to nature, you and i. i'm going to retrain you. i'm going to make you free again if i have to kill you doing it.
speaker2: but i like being human now.
speaker1: you what?
speaker2: i want to be the way i was before.
speaker1: good. i'll show you how, apey.

speaker1: nice night. 
speaker2: talking is to be kept to a minimum. eventually, when we are ready, there will be none. language was invented so that people could lie to each other and to themselves. there is no other reason.
speaker1: i agree?
speaker2: you lose. any answer is the wrong answer.

speaker1: you'll thank me eventually, puff. well, you won't thank me, because we won't be speaking, but you'll sort of thank me with a special look, the look a dog gives you to let you know he loves you. 
speaker2: what an enchanting picture you paint of our future together.

speaker1: a penny for your thoughts, mon cheri. 
speaker2: i don't know. something's missing.

speaker1: so, mother and father, how's godspell going? 
speaker2: how did you know we...
speaker2: tell him, harold.
speaker3: it's going famously, son, famously!
speaker1: i'm glad.
speaker2: harold, ask nathan what's wrong.
speaker4: yes, please, somebody ask him what is wrong.
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: i want our boy back. 
speaker2: oui.
speaker1: that i worked so hard. we worked so hard, you and i. he would've made us famous.
speaker2: we still have you and i.
speaker1: i know. and that's great. but it would be great in a better way, not a better way but a different way, if i could find him and bring him back.
speaker2: where do we look for little lost puff?
speaker1: i have some thoughts. i think that hairy is somewhere trying to turn him back into an ape.
speaker2: that is horrible. apes are dirty. no?
speaker1: you better believe they're dirty! and smelly! and messy! and they don't know their forks from their assholes!
speaker1: i'm going alone. this could be dangerous.
speaker2: okay, my sweet. good night.
speaker1: a little resistance would be nice, it.
speaker2: please let me go with you.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: aha! finally. i've covered almost the entire seaboard and parts of eastern ohio. 
speaker2: ugnh.
speaker3: ugnh.
speaker1: oh please, is that as articulate as you can be after all the time i spent teaching you? we've discussed wittgenstein, for christ's sake. not that you ever had anything very original or challenging to say on the subject.
speaker3: unn.
speaker1: down from the tree. both of you. keep your hands where i can see them. don't want you pulling any weapons out of your fur.
speaker1: look at you two. you both disgust me.
speaker2: oook. oook.
speaker1: shut up! i gave you... life. i created you in my image, puff. i took you from this primordial ooze and brought you into the world of culture and art and manners. and this is how you repay me? by heading back to the ooze first chance you get? i should leave you here with lila the ape woman. it would serve you right, you ungrateful piece of crap. but i'm not going to. you're too valuable to me. totally selfish of me. you serve my purpose. but if you had any smarts you would realize that i serve your purpose as well. life is so much more delightful when lived in a silk suit.
speaker2: ooka.
speaker1: don't worry, lila. you can stay. i don't have any interest in you anymore. c'mon, monkey boy.
speaker1: now!
speaker1: puff, put the gun down.
speaker3: ounpoo. ungh.
speaker1: let's be reasonable human beings here. we're all reasonable human beings, aren't we?
speaker3: unka unka unka unka unka.
speaker1: look, why don't you and lila stay here and have your natural life. i'll just go on my way. you'll never see me again.
speaker3: i have to talk. is that okay?
speaker3: you did create me in your image, nathan. before you i was a simple, happy, complete being, in harmony with the world around me. after you i became duplicitous, cynical, angry, anal, totally out of touch with my surroundings. in a word, nathan, i became you. lila has reintroduced me to myself. and, incidentally, what i'm about to do, kill you, is something that would never have occurred to me to do as a creature of the earth. before when i killed, it was for food or in self-defense. now i will kill for revenge. revenge is an abstract concept, nathan. and i learned abstract thinking from you.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: puff, don't.

speaker1: then puff shot me. then i died. that's all i know. that's the end of my story. do i get to go to heaven now? or is it... hell? or... what? i just stay here, is it? i just stay here and tell it again? and after that? again? and after... yes. yes, of course. we move into an extreme close-up. 
speaker1: i don't even know what sorry means anymore. it's odd. when i was alive i knew -- maybe it was all i knew...

speaker1: he's dead. 
speaker2: we bury the body. we disappear into the woods. nobody knows.
speaker1: no. this is the end of the road. there's a dead human being here. for all of his faults, he was a human being, and certainly a victim of his culture as much as anybody.
speaker2: forget him, lila. we'll disappear. we'll never talk about it again. we'll never talk again period. i love you.
speaker1: puff, what happened to you is as much my fault as nathan's. maybe more so, because i knew it was wrong and i went along with it anyway. i'm taking responsibility for the murder. i want you to go back to your old life.
speaker2: i won't let you do that. i shot the bastard. and i'm glad.
speaker1: no. go back to the woods. this is a sacrifice i need to make. in my world we have something called penance. it's another abstraction, but i had the concept drummed into my head during my years in the convent. it doesn't exist for you, and it shouldn't. see, i could never be free again anyway, so i might as well be in jail.
speaker2: then i'll live for both of us, lila. i'll be the most free, truest animal in the whole forest. for both of us.
speaker1: that's what i'm counting on.
speaker2: but first i'll live among them, just long enough to testify before congress about the waywardness of humankind.
speaker1: okay. if you think it will help.

speaker1: and so, gentlemen, that is my story. i agreed to testify before this committee because i hoped to convey to the american public that there is indeed a paradise lost. human beings have become so enamored of their technologies and their intellectual prowess and their fancy gourmet foods, that they've forgotten to look to the earth as a teacher. this is hubris, my friends. and my story of destruction and betrayal is proof of that. i will keep my promise to lila. i will shed this suit and go back into the wilderness. i will live out my days naked and free. 
speaker2: thank you, sir. your story has touched us all deeply. we will pass some legislation addressing this problem.
speaker1: thank you. that is all i ask. good-bye, lila. i take you with me in my untamed heart.

speaker1: wait! 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i saw you on c-span. i've been looking for you for thirty years. then there you were, such a beautiful, beautiful grown man.
speaker2: mother?
speaker1: yes... derek.
speaker2: it's a pleasure to meet you, mother. but i'm an ape like dad was... and i have to go back into the woods now... forever.
speaker1: yes, i suppose so. i suppose i knew that was going to be what you would say. it's good to see you again though.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i'm in the book, if you ever want to drop me a line or something.
speaker2: i'm an ape, mom. i'm an ape. and apes don't drop lines.

speaker1: hello, my little boy. 
speaker2: hey, ma. did you bring any clothes? i'm freezing my off.
speaker1: oui. nathan's silk suit, just like you asked.
speaker2: great. i've wanted you forever.
speaker1: say my name.
speaker2: gabrielle.
speaker1: you remind me so much of nathan.
speaker2: like father, like son.
speaker1: you remind me so much of nathan plus so much of my little mongrel doggie.
speaker2: woof.
speaker2: arf.
speaker2: as much as i loved nathan, i'm not sorry she killed him, if it means i can have you. is that a terrible thing to say, my sweet?
speaker1: hush. no, it is never terrible to be in love. nathan's memory lives on in our sacred union. i'm not sorry she killed him either. nathan was wonderful. he was erudite and sophisticated and charming. you are all that, too. but you have something more. you have a bit of the animal in you.
speaker2: let's go eat, i'm starved.
speaker1: french?
speaker2: oui.

