speaker1: what kind of a crash was it? 
speaker2: you seen my suitcase?
speaker1: there's nothing on the news about a crash. did he say what airline?
speaker2: he didn't say much at all. honey --
speaker1: in the closet. i don't understand, norman -- why would they call you?
speaker2: don't be so supportive, honey.
speaker1: well, i can't imagine five years of unemployment --
speaker2: four. four years --
speaker1: four years of unemployment would look too good on a resume.
speaker2: keep watching the news. are you watching the news?
speaker1: how are you getting to the airport? you need money for the bus?
speaker1: there's a u.s. navy car outside, norman.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: was it a military crash?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: they never used to send a navy car.

speaker1: what kinda work you in, dr. johnson? 
speaker2: i'm in psychology. was. still am really, just been a while. i treat aircrash survivors.
speaker1: oh, so you're that dr. johnson.
speaker2: you've heard of me?
speaker1: well, everybody's been talking about that report you wrote.
speaker2: what report?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: what report?
speaker1: you mean you don't know?
speaker2: know what?
speaker1: must be another johnson then. been flying so many scientists out here -- can't keep everyone straight.
speaker2: who's everyone?
speaker1: physicists, mathematicians, geologists, you name it.
speaker2: geologists? at a plane crash?
speaker1: strange, isn't it? in the middle of the ocean no less.
speaker2: what the would a geologist be doing at a plane crash?

speaker1: any other bags, dr. johnson? 
speaker2: just that. careful, it's heavy.
speaker1: no other equipment? scientific instruments?
speaker2: no, they didn't say --
speaker1: this way, sir.
speaker1: captain barnes wants to see you right away, sir.
speaker2: captain who?
speaker1: barnes. he's very eager to meet you. been calling us every half hour to see if you're arrived.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: by the way sir, i've read your report. i think it's brilliant.
speaker2: what report?
speaker1: you mean they haven't told you yet?
speaker2: told me what?
speaker1: this way, sir.

speaker1: dr. norman johnson. welcome aboard. 
speaker2: thank you, colonel.
speaker1: captain.
speaker2: captain. right, forgive me.
speaker2: well, thanks for the opportuninty here -- my wife appreciates it.
speaker1: don't thank me, dr. johnson. you weren't my choice. the pentagon made me take you.
speaker2: the pentagon? i didn't know i had friends in washington.
speaker1: come with me. the team's already waiting.
speaker2: what team?

speaker1: what have you been told so far? 
speaker2: the usual. plane crash. survivers unknown. routine stuff really.
speaker1: anything else?
speaker2: nothing else.
speaker3: captain barnes. dr. johnson.
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: you talk to any reporters? any press?
speaker2: press? no, i haven't.
speaker1: good. security's been our biggest worry. now that you're here we can shut this thing down tight.
speaker2: from what? what's with all the security?
speaker1: well, we don't have all the facts yet.

speaker1: we're moving fast considering the storm. 
speaker2: storm? what storm?
speaker1: a cyclone's on it's way in. i thought they would have told you on the phone.
speaker2: they didn't tell me anything.
speaker1: we've had divers working around the clock. take a look at this...
speaker2: how deep is he?
speaker1: a thousand feet.
speaker2: a thousand? an airplane crashes into a thousand feet of water -- i don't want to sound pessimistic here, but i assume there are no survivors.
speaker1: survivors? no, i wouldn't think so.
speaker2: then why am i here?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what do you need me for?

speaker1: what crashed wasn't an airplane, dr. johnson. it's a bit larger than that. 
speaker1: bring up the grid, would you?
speaker2: what is it? a military spacecraft?
speaker1: something like that. that doesn't surprise you?
speaker2: not really, no. something of the military crashes in the ocean -- it explains why there was nothing on the news, why you've kept everything a secret... when did it crash?
speaker1: as best we can estimate, it crashed four hundred years ago.
speaker2: four hundred? you're kidding, right?
speaker1: see this? coral. geologists measured the coral growth on top of the craft to be over five meters thick.
speaker2: geologists?
speaker1: coral grows at a rate of two and a half centimeters a year --
speaker2: -- wait a second --
speaker1: -- dating the crash at least that old.
speaker2: hold on --
speaker1: maybe older --
speaker2: -- there's got to be some mistake here -- a four hundred year old military spacecraft? there's no such thing... our space program isn't even forty years old.
speaker1: extraordinary, isn't it?
speaker2: it's impossible.
speaker1: i'm afraid it is dr. johnson... because it's sitting on the bottom of our ocean floor.
speaker1: off the record, i don't mind telling you, this thing scares the out of me.
speaker2: it doesn't make any sense.
speaker1: we think it might. that's why we brought you here. we've assembled your team -- they're waiting for us now.
speaker2: what team?
speaker1: the one you recommended. in the ulf report you wrote for the bush administration.
speaker2: ulf report? nobody's mentioned that in years. you mean someone actually read it?
speaker1: your report's become our bible down here, dr. johnson. we've been carrying out each of your recommendations -- one by one -- to the smallest detail.
speaker2: but sir, i don't understand. this report -- these recommendations... they're for an encounter with extra- terrestrial life.

speaker1: how big is this spacecraft? 
speaker2: of what we're able to measure, roughly twenty-six hundred feet.
speaker3: a half a mile long?
speaker2: the wing dimension alone is larger that any aircraft we've seen.
speaker4: how much damage?
speaker2: to the craft? none. not a scratch.
speaker4: right. so you're saying it survived a high speed impact with water without a scratch?
speaker2: i'm not saying anything, harry, i'm just stating the facts. the outer metal is made of a titanium alloy, built into an epoxy- resin honeycomb. the necessary technology to bond this type of metal has never been invented.
speaker3: never invented?
speaker1: in basic english, what does all this mean?
speaker2: basic english? there's no way this spacecraft was constructed on our planet.

speaker1: five years. no phone calls. what am i -- a leper? 
speaker2: beth, look, can i trust you with a little secret?
speaker1: i love secrets.
speaker2: that ulf report everybody's patting me on the back about?
speaker1: i've read it twice, norman. it's brilliant.
speaker2: it's the report's a joke.
speaker1: that's quite a secret.
speaker2: i spent a week reading sagan and watching re-runs of the twilight zone. seriously. i was just trying to pay the mortgage on my house -- i had no idea --
speaker1: do yourself a favor, norman. are you listening? don't tell anyone what you just told me.
speaker2: c'mon, beth -- that report's like the blind leading the blind.
speaker1: because when we get down there --
speaker2: wait -- down where?
speaker1: to the spacecraft. to investigate.
speaker2: underwater?
speaker1: what do you expect? for them to bring it up here?
speaker2: we can't go down there. we're not prepared. that deep? that takes years of training, beth. we're just scientists. lab scietists. we wear ties and lab coats to work -- not oxygen tanks.
speaker1: well, you must have realized the chances an encounter like this would happen here. in the ocean. 70 percent of the earth's surface is water, norman. that's first grade geography.
speaker2: it never occurred to me.
speaker1: well, let's pray that's the only mistake you made. have you said anything to barnes about this?
speaker2: the timing has never seemed quite right.
speaker1: just keep your mouth shut, alright? this could mean everything to our careers, you know that? don't jeopardize this.
speaker2: what -- are you threatening me?
speaker3: i don't know you, but i'll be honest with you. i don't like this. i don't like any of this. especially, the water.
speaker2: seasick? a marine biologist?
speaker3: i don't belong here. none of us belong here. look at that.
speaker2: makes you feel pretty small, doesn't it?
speaker3: it scares the out of me.

speaker1: our descent will take 13 minutes. descending at a speed of 80 feet per minute. 
speaker1: pressure adjustments will cause the sub to lurch at times, but don't be alarmed. it's perfectly normal...
speaker1: the sub's interior atmosphere will experience moisture as we descend, and the temperature will drop rapidly. just relax and remain seated during the descent.
speaker1: we have clearing from the base.
speaker2: arthur?
speaker2: arthur? you alright?
speaker3: open the hatch door, please.
speaker3: captain, open the hatch door, please ... the hatch door, captain. open it, please.
speaker1: calm down, dr. levine.
speaker3: let me out, captain. open the door!
speaker1: please, dr. levine.
speaker1: sit down, dr. levine! you're in a military operation now --
speaker1: ... your civil rights have been overridden!
speaker3: open it, captain!
speaker1: dr. levine, please! return to your seat!
speaker3: open the door!
speaker1: anybody else? silence.
speaker4: pussy.
speaker5: what's that -- mistake number two, norman?
speaker2: he wasn't feeling well.
speaker4: he's a pussy.
speaker6: how are you feeling, norman?
speaker2: what?
speaker6: you holding up alright?
speaker2: fine. i'm fine.
speaker6: don't be defensive.
speaker2: i'm not being defensive.
speaker6: you sound defensive.
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker4: what'd you say to him?
speaker6: to who? arthur? nothing. nothing that norman doesn't already know.
speaker4: what does norman already know?
speaker6: norman thinks we shouldn't be going down. thinks it's a mistake.
speaker6: she told me what you said, norman.
speaker4: what is it, harry?
speaker6: just one of norman's many secrets.

speaker1: they pressurize us with helium. 
speaker2: what's wrong with oxygen?
speaker1: it's a corrosive gas. on earth, it makes a half-eaten apple turn brown and puts the ugly, iron rust on an oldsmobile. at a pressure this low, oxygen becomes toxic. breathe it down here, and it'll do to your what it does to the oldsmobile.
speaker3: important safety tip. thanks captain.
speaker4: captain, the divers have the airlock mounted at the door. the robot is now in position to enter the spacecraft.
speaker3: robot? what robot?

speaker1: edmunds, bring up the robot's camera feed. 
speaker2: captain, you know, i really appreciate you hauling us a thousand feet below sea level so we can watch this historical event on television.
speaker1: nobody goes inside, until we know
speaker3: working on it now, sir.
speaker2: i'd like it noted in the report that i think we should be doing this ourselves. making a manned entry...
speaker2: i'd also like it noted --
speaker1: duly noted, ted. edmunds, try using suction.
speaker3: it's not sucking, sir.
speaker1: thank you, i can see that. try something else.
speaker3: we don't have anything else to try, sir.
speaker1: well, -- find something, do something... make something up --
speaker2: what about a crowbar?
speaker1: what
speaker4: pry the thing open? what are we -- neanderthals?
speaker5: all that banging and pounding. i don't know. we should think about making a good first impression.
speaker4: for who? the fish?
speaker5: for whoever's in that thing.
speaker1: or whatever's in that thing.
speaker1: norman, what do you think?
speaker6: me? well -- i don't really... i mean, you could... you know, you could make a real solid case... a crowbar?
speaker6: i don't know.
speaker2: i'm secure enough with that.

speaker1: are we all -- i mean, is it necessary for all of us to go... out there? 
speaker2: nothing to be nervous about. these suits are wired and electrically heated. each equipped with an alarm that triggers automatically if life- support sustems go below optimum.
speaker3: it's just like swimming, norman...
speaker4: you're not afraid of the water, are you, norman?
speaker5: isn't there a psychological term for that, dr. johnson?
speaker1: yeah. drowning.

speaker1: you're next, norman. 
speaker2: no. go ahead. really. ladies first.
speaker1: such a gentlemen when you're scared shitless.
speaker3: go ahead. ladies first.
speaker2: no, why don't -- harry nudges him forward.
speaker3: c'mon.
speaker2: wait a second, i --
speaker2: geez, c'mon, alright. gimme a minute. let me get my bearings -- harry pushes him again.
speaker3: c'mon, norman.
speaker2: look, would you --

speaker1: quiet. only the sound of norman -- breathing. for a couple beats. 
speaker2: the switch is on your waist.

speaker1: easy ted, we're not mining gold. 
speaker2: gimme some room here, will you? back off. gimme some space.
speaker3: looks alot like an airplane door, doesn't it?
speaker2: alot like. you know, i noticed it before, but i didn't...
speaker1: shutup, ted. you didn't notice
speaker4: you want me to try?
speaker2: you're a 53 year old shrink, what are you gonna do?
speaker5: give him the hammer, ted.
speaker2: what is it, your back give out?
speaker5: what is it, norman?
speaker4: take a look.
speaker5: it's chipped.
speaker1: chipped? the door? how can it be chipped?
speaker5: i don't know how it can be chipped, but it's chipped.
speaker1: i thought you said there wasn't any damage done in the crash?
speaker5: i did.
speaker1: then how can it be chipped?
speaker3: there's heat coming the door.
speaker5: back away then.
speaker3: wait a minute --
speaker5: i said back away.
speaker3: would you wait a minute?

speaker1: ted, get her away from the door. 
speaker2: what are you going to do -- shoot her?
speaker1: get her away! the door begins to slide open. beth backs away.

speaker1: look at this. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: some sort of lead or something.
speaker2: radiation shield, you think?
speaker1: a foot and a half thick? that'd withstand a helluva lot of radiation.
speaker3: hold on --
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: any of you get ahead of me -- walk this far up?
speaker1: no. i don't think so.
speaker3: well, think. because there's footprints here that aren't mine.
speaker1: well, they're not mine.
speaker2: calm down, alright? they gotta be somebody's here. let's stay together, please.

speaker1: it's empty. why would someone build a ship like this? 
speaker2: you'd have to ask them.
speaker3: alright, beth, do that thing you did before.
speaker1: how about i just press the button?
speaker3: or just... press the button.
speaker4: strange, isn't it? you know -- how it would have a button.
speaker5: earth doesn't have a patent on buttons, ted.
speaker4: still, make a note i recognized that.
speaker4: what's wrong?
speaker3: what do you make of this?
speaker4: what the hell?
speaker4: english?
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: i don't get it.
speaker4: it doesn't make any sense.
speaker2: you don't think it does? i think it's rather obvious.
speaker4: is it some sort of joke? like one of those hoaxes?
speaker2: a spacecraft half a mile long -- with 500 tonnes of coral on top of it? someone went to a lot of trouble. try again.
speaker4: but it's impossible.
speaker2: is it?
speaker4: why would this ship carry instructions in english?
speaker2: think about it.
speaker4: unless, this alien spacecraft was -- you know -- somehow presenting itself to americans in a way that would make us feel comfortable.
speaker5: 400 years ago? i'm sure christopher columbus would've loved these accomodations.
speaker1: good theory, ted.
speaker4: well, what's your theory?
speaker1: i'm a woman. i don't theorize. i only deal with facts.
speaker2: all the facts you need are right in front of you.
speaker4: gimme a minute here... i think i've got it.
speaker2: do you?
speaker4: if it is an alien spacecraft --
speaker2: save your breath. it's not an alien spacecraft.
speaker1: then what is it?
speaker2: it's an american spacecraft.
speaker4: an american spacecraft? half a mile long? and buried 400 years? yeah, good theory, harry.
speaker2: it's been obvious from the start, hasn't it, captain? that's why all the secrecy, why no one was told about it?
speaker3: we had considered it.
speaker4: considered what? that it's american?
speaker2: the chip in the door.
speaker2: we take a weeny little wedge, bang on it a couple of times, and bust off a chunk of the metal. yet any spacecraft -- even at a low velocity, say 200 miles an hour -- crashes into the water -- it's gonna be like hitting concrete, it would crumple like paper. but there isn't a dent to be seen anywhere. not even a scratch.
speaker4: meaning?
speaker2: meaning it didn't land in the water.
speaker4: please. it must have flown here --
speaker2: it didn't fly here. it
speaker2: not where. when. 400 years ago. from our future.

speaker1: time travel. i always thought it was one of those myths... like santa's reindeer. 
speaker2: what would we be working on in the future that would make us want to come back?
speaker1: maybe we didn't want to come back.
speaker3: norman, harry, and beth...
speaker4: what are you looking for?
speaker5: a light switch. a button opened that door -- the craft runs on some sort of power.
speaker4: what's that noise?
speaker6: sounds a little like water --
speaker4: norman!
speaker6: get this thing off me.
speaker4: i think the chair thinks you want to fly this thing.
speaker7: her eyes look up slowly... as we

speaker1: nice work, norman. 
speaker2: whatever i can do to help.

speaker1: harry punches some keys on the control panel. 
speaker2: a flight recorder. our future is about to be seen in our present.

speaker1: 01-01-47. two thousand-forty seven. 
speaker2: unknown entry event.
speaker3: what's that cluster of stars there? in the center?
speaker2: our answer.
speaker1: to what?
speaker2: time travel. a black hole.
speaker2: ted? captain?
speaker4: yes, harry.
speaker2: we know how this craft got here.
speaker4: so do we. and it seems to have picked up something on it's travels.
speaker1: picked up something? what is it?
speaker4: i don't know. but it's something alien.

speaker1: this answers one of our questions. 
speaker2: which one? let me get the list out.
speaker1: this spacecraft was designed to pick things up. they see things they want -- these claws go out and bring it in. they come across this. this...
speaker1: our present.
speaker3: but what does it do? this... sphere.
speaker4: maybe it's a message of some sort, you know? see this red here.
speaker4: looks like a design, some writing, maybe. maybe it was sent to meet the spacecraft with a message.
speaker1: look closely. that isn't writing. those are grooves.
speaker1: no. they don't represent a message. they aren't decorative at all. they have another purpose entirely.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: to conceal a small break in the surface of the sphere.
speaker3: a break for what?

speaker1: so how do we get it open? 
speaker2: ted seems to have some ideas.
speaker3: maybe we shouldn't.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: if it is alien, maybe we shouldn't try to open it at all.
speaker2: man is man, all he knows is man, and all he can think of is what he knows. the anthropomorphic problem.
speaker1: the what?
speaker3: i mentioned it in my report. didn't you read the report?
speaker2: everything ever written about extra- terrestial life imagines that life is essentially human. if it doesn't look human, it's a reptile or a big insect or something, having human values, human understanding.
speaker1: so? what's the problem?
speaker2: it's nonsense. there's enough difference between our own species to prove that.
speaker4: take politics, our views on abortion, the death penalty...
speaker2: cannibalism, to be extreme. and now we're talking about a new life form. their values and ethics may be incomprehensible.
speaker1: like "thou shall not kill"?
speaker3: or maybe, it can't
speaker3: i don't know. that's the point.
speaker1: everything can be killed.
speaker4: not everything. even on earth. take ... yeasts.
speaker1: yeasts? thank you, beth, but i don't think we're gonna open it up and find a loaf of bread.
speaker2: and we're just talking about three- dimensional creatures. what if it's five or six or seven-dimensional? so dimensional that we couldn't even see it to kill it.
speaker3: good point. i don't know what you're talking about, but good point.
speaker1: or it could contain some great benefit to us, some astonishing new idea or technology to help mankind.
speaker2: it could. but the odds of it being any use to us are against it.
speaker1: you don't know that.
speaker2: let's say whoever made this thing is a thousand years ahead of us, just like we are to, say, medieval europe. suppose you went back to medieval europe with a tv set. there wouldn't be any place to plug it in.
speaker1: just tell me worst case. worst case of what we might find?
speaker4: it could breathe in air and exhale cyanide gas.
speaker3: disrupt our brain waves, interfere with our ability to think.
speaker2: produce radioactive waste and disintegrate us into nothing.

speaker1: you realize, norman, that we are all going to die. norman is lying in his own bunk, below harry. 
speaker2: don't be so optomistic, harry.
speaker1: i'm completely serious. there is something very important missing from that spacecraft. you know what that is?
speaker2: not a clue.
speaker1: a sign that the builders knew time travel through a black hole was possible.
speaker2: i don't follow you.
speaker1: on that flight recorder, they called the black hole an "unknown entry event." they didn't know what a black hole was. fifty years from now, men are going to build that ship in a very tentative, experimental way, with no knowledge that time travel through a black hole is possible.
speaker2: so what?
speaker1: so,
speaker1: meaning we're never gonna get to the surface alive... to tell anyone.
speaker2: i can't believe that, harry.
speaker1: gimme another explanation.
speaker2: i can't. if i had a minute to think, maybe, but i know you're wrong.
speaker1: am i?
speaker2: look -- we're under a lot of pressure, we're tired, you're not thinking straight.
speaker1: you mean, you think i'm cracking?
speaker2: no. i didn't say that.
speaker1: then what, norman?
speaker2: it's what's in that sphere, isn't it, harry? whatever you think is in that thing -- you think it's going to kill you.
speaker1: curious, isn't it? what's inside? before i die, i'd sure like to open it and see.

speaker1: what caused it? 
speaker2: nothing. i don't know. everything was normal. no changes at all.
speaker3: when did it happen?
speaker2: seconds ago. here!
speaker1: let me see that again. edmunds plays it again. this time...
speaker3: i'd sure like to open it and see.

speaker1: don't get hysterical, norman. 
speaker2: i'm telling you, harry's lost it. he's saying there's a deathwish out for each of us.
speaker1: look, the ships are clearing out. they're taking us topside in a matter of minutes. someone can check him out there, if it's that imprtant.
speaker2: all i'm saying is, someone should keep an eye on him.
speaker1: just worry about yourself.

speaker1: can i stay, sir? i'm willing to risk it. i am. after what we just witnessed. 
speaker2: what? no, i know they're civilians...

speaker1: ... i said send the subs down, it! 
speaker2: did you hear me, sir, because --
speaker1: ted, shut up. are you packed? ready to go? i want everyone packed. now!
speaker3: harry's missing.
speaker1: what do you mean, he's missing?
speaker3: he's missing. he's gone. he left.
speaker1: he's here somewhere. find him. the sub's on it's way. go! c'mon!
speaker1: how can he be missing?
speaker2: sir, about leaving --
speaker1: we're on the bottom of the ocean -- he can't just walk outside!

speaker1: oh my gosh... 
speaker2: gimme a report, i want --
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen...
speaker2: who is that? where's that coming from?
speaker3: please watch your closest monitor... barnes turns...
speaker4: barnes quickly puts on his headset mic...
speaker2: what's he doing there?

speaker1: i thought he was with you, norman. 
speaker2: get him out of there. i thought i told you people --
speaker3: harry? can you copy? on the monitor -- harry, before the sphere...
speaker4: pay close attention. i think you will find this of interest.
speaker1: what the is he doing?

speaker1: send them, it! i know, but i'm not gonna be held responsible -- norman with him... 
speaker2: you can't just leave harry down here, sir.
speaker1: i told you people, nobody goes anywhere unless i say.
speaker2: but sir --
speaker1: no "buts". if he wants to be left, we'll leave him. hello? yes, the subs -- i want a report... hello... yes, a report.
speaker3: i'm getting no sub reading, sir.
speaker1: they're coming.

speaker1: any sign of harry? 
speaker2: nothing, sir.

speaker1: him. what? hello? 
speaker2: sir, i am still getting absolutely no reading on sub movement...

speaker1: yes, a report... hello? 
speaker2: i am not leaving without him. do you hear me? we come down as a team, we leave as a team.
speaker1: what are you -- his mother? get norman, i want everyone ready to go. edmunds, the subs?
speaker3: nothing, sir.
speaker1: what the is going on here?
speaker2: norman? where's norman?
speaker4: by the bunks.
speaker2: norman?... norman?

speaker1: edmunds, do you have a 20 on norman? 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: well, where the is he?
speaker2: in the ship, sir.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: norman? norman!
speaker1: you get your back here. you have no authority whatsoever to be in there. you hear me?... norman? don't go hero on me now.

speaker1: sir, if the subs haven't left by now... 
speaker2: they've left, keep watching!
speaker1: sir! sir, the door -- it's opening.

speaker1: where is he? it! can you see him? 
speaker1: how does he look? can you tell?
speaker2: he looks... dead, sir.

speaker1: if the subs aren't here yet, sir -- 
speaker2: they'll be here. norman -- can you hear me?...
speaker2: you don't have time! get the out of -- barnes' voice goes static, and cuts out.
speaker1: sir, we're losing it.

speaker1: what the happened? 
speaker2: they switched us over.
speaker1: to what?
speaker2: internal power.
speaker3: what for?

speaker1: the surface ships will be back. 
speaker2: how long will that be?

speaker1: they told me about sixty hours. 
speaker2: two and a half days?
speaker3: how long can we last down here?
speaker4: comfortably? seventy-two hours.
speaker2: comfortably -- what's that mean -- with oxygen?

speaker1: what is that? that noise? 
speaker2: what noise?
speaker1: it's like...
speaker2: harry, can you tell me about the sphere?
speaker1: what are you still doing here?
speaker2: you remember opening the door?
speaker1: you were all supposed to leave. you weren't supposed to stay down here.
speaker2: tell me about the door. do you remember how you opened the door to the sphere?... harry?
speaker1: you don't understand about the sphere.
speaker2: then explain it to me.
speaker1: norman?
speaker2: what is it, harry?
speaker1: what happens on page 87? have you ever read page 87?
speaker2: page 87 of what, harry?
speaker1: i could never read that far. i never wanted to.
speaker2: that far in what, harry? harry doesn't say anything. norman waiting...
speaker1: you shouldn't be here, norman. it's too dangerous for you and the others to be down here.

speaker1: beth -- i wanted to have a word with you... 
speaker1: back at the door -- i asked you to back away.
speaker2: yeah. i heard you.
speaker1: there are procedures, beth, that i want followed. my procedures. and considering what's going on, i want you to follow them very closely.
speaker2: forgive me. i've never read the navy manual. i wonder what it says about bathroom and shower procedures.
speaker1: and beth, one other thing. i'd like from now on for you to address me as captain or sir in front of the men.

speaker1: hey, go easy on the salt, will ya? we're not a bunch of icy streets here. 
speaker2: salt's good for you, ted. helps you from getting impotent.
speaker1: impotent? i'm not impotent.
speaker3: these aren't half bad, fletcher. you might have a second career coming.
speaker2: what are they?
speaker4: squid...
speaker4: ... there was a whole flock of them out there earlier. it's strange. it's dead down here, and then all of a sudden --

speaker1: when did it come across? 
speaker2: minutes ago. harry's trying to decode it in his room now.
speaker1: where's it coming from?
speaker2: no idea. we have no surface support. it transmitted too fast to be coming from underwater.
speaker1: is it coming from our own computer?
speaker2: harry thinks it's some sort of discharge from our own system, but i've seen it discharge before -- and it didn't look anything like this.

speaker1: getting anywhere with those? 
speaker2: there's some sort of pattern here.
speaker1: have you looked outside? jellyfish. everywhere. i hate jellyfish. harry, what happened in the cafeteria?
speaker2: don't do this. don't psychoanalyze me. i hate squid. period. just like you hate jellyfish.
speaker1: you said something to me, before -- about how we were all going to die.
speaker2: did i?
speaker1: you don't remember that?
speaker2: i don't remember much. it's like my memory is on the tip of my tongue -- but i can't taste any of it. funny, my senses are much keener though. purer. hearing, seeing, smelling. like, i can smell your sheets, norman. you tried to wash it out earlier, but i can still smell the urine. don't worry, i'm not going to tell the others. it's normal, really, isn't it? in a crisis. the stress.
speaker3: fletcher? what are you doing out there?
speaker4: they're like pink snow, sir. sticky.
speaker5: she says jellyfish are a delicacy.
speaker3: get out of there. i don't want anyone going anywhere outside, understood?
speaker4: they're warm. i can feel the heat on my legs.
speaker3: fletcher, i want you back here.

speaker1: norman sitting on the table... 
speaker2: what happened to you inside that sphere, harry?
speaker3: why? does someone else want to go inside?

speaker1: i can't see, they're smearing the faceplate. my arms... the fabric... 
speaker2: fletcher, get away from there...
speaker1: it's burning...
speaker2: get out of there!
speaker1: i can't see...
speaker2: fletcher! now!
speaker1: i can't...
speaker2: nobody move.
speaker3: but she's --
speaker2: nobody move!
speaker1: they're eating through... somebody --

speaker1: what is this, beth? you taking valium? 
speaker2: sedatives. whatever my mood calls for.
speaker1: where'd this come from?
speaker2: the library.
speaker1: we have a library?
speaker2: a bad one. it was the only book in there. norman, come here, look at this.
speaker1: no, thank you. i hate jellyfish.
speaker1: ... when i was six, my younger brother and i -- we went swimming in the pacific. at my mother's beach house. we both felt stinging, and when we came out of the water, he was wearing jellyfish head to toe.
speaker2: my gosh, norman.
speaker1: yeah, it was awful.
speaker2: what about you? what happened to you?
speaker1: me? well, i was wrapped in seaweed. it itched for a while, but i survived. beth, do you find it... curious that we're seeing all this life down here. nothing, and then these enormous flocks of squid. then jellyfish?
speaker2: normally, i'd say no. everything's quiet now -- no ships, no divers, no electricity. makes sense. but what's curious is -- these aren't normal jellyfish.
speaker1: what do you mean -- not normal?
speaker2: they have six tentacles. a new species. and the squid too. they had no stomach.
speaker1: wait a minute.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you knew about the squid not being normal. before fletcher went out there?
speaker2: yeah, why?
speaker1: and you didn't tell anyone?
speaker2: what? why...
speaker1: beth --
speaker2: i mean, i'm not... i wasn't absolutely sure if... they --
speaker1: they are or they aren't. which is it?
speaker2: what?... wait. don't... why are you --
speaker1: beth.
speaker2: nobody said... norman... what? why are you looking at me like that?
speaker1: beth --
speaker2: i didn't do anything wrong. i didn't mean...
speaker1: beth.
speaker2: you wouldn't go and tell the others, would you?
speaker2: i hate this place, norman. i want out.

speaker1: i'm not paranoid. i know beth. she can be drastic. 
speaker2: how drastic?
speaker1: you don't want to know.
speaker2: i think i do.
speaker1: a while back, beth and i -- we worked at the same university. she was assisting a chemist there -- i forget his name -- doing research, experiments. she was also living with him. yeah, i know. and when she finished her work, he kicked her out, broke off the relationship, and published five papers -- all her work -- without any thank you or acknowledgement.
speaker2: she should've known better.
speaker1: she put a razor to her wrists a day later.
speaker2: when was this?
speaker1: '81, i think. she tried again five years ago. i thought you should know.
speaker2: so you knew this when you wrote your report?
speaker1: at the time, i don't know, i thought putting her on the list -- it might help her career -- catch her a break.
speaker2: you knowingly recommended a woman with suicidal tendencies for a government operation --
speaker1: wait a second --
speaker2: -- and then brought her down here --
speaker1: -- i didn't know it would come to this --
speaker2: -- without a cautionary word to anyone. you know, ted said something to me earlier. i think he's right. he said, "when you got a guy who -- if he wasn't here -- he'd be standing in the unemployment line, you gotta question if you got the right guy." on norman -- sweating.

speaker1: it's the same as before, but the spacing's different now. it's definitely nonrandom. see... 
speaker1: it's a single sequence repeated over and over.
speaker2: we're all very proud of you, harry, but what the is it?
speaker3: maybe it's a message?
speaker4: from what?
speaker3: the sphere. maybe the sphere --
speaker4: we're not hooked up to the sphere.
speaker1: well, if it's a discharge --
speaker3: it's not a discharge. right, edmunds? you said before, right? so it's gotta be a message.
speaker2: from the sphere?
speaker3: what's inside the sphere.
speaker1: if it is a message, it's probably a substitution code. i'll work on it.
speaker3: yeah, i'll work on it, too.
speaker2: you do that.

speaker1: he's manic, norman. you know that? this reliance on harry is misplaced. you hear me? totally misplaced. he's overlooking things. obvious things. 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: it's not some substitution code, it's a direct visual representation.
speaker2: you mean a picture?
speaker1: take a look. i rearranged the numbers. put 'em up to the light. go ahead. squint at it.
speaker2: i don't see anything.
speaker1: squint harder.
speaker2: please, ted.
speaker1: try this one.
speaker2: this is like nursery school.
speaker1: don't you see it? it's a picture of the creature.
speaker2: the creature?
speaker1: inside the sphere. look, that's the vertical torso, three legs, two arms. there's no head, so i'm guessing the creature's head is located within the torso itself, you know?
speaker2: well, how about we wait and see what harry comes up with?
speaker1: sure, why not. give him the trophy. that pretentious son of a you heard him, norman. all that "someone went to a lot of trouble, try again" and "impotent". where does he get off saying i'm impotent? he's a self-righteous, little prick.
speaker3: ... i asked myself, why would the sphere be using a code? if you're trying to communicate, why use a code?
speaker1: see? no code. what'd i say?
speaker3: codes are for
speaker3: ... spiralling out of the center, you see: "g" is one, "b" is two, "h" is three, and so on... when i got the message.
speaker4: what's the message?
speaker3: i have to tell you. it's strange.
speaker4: how do you mean, strange?
speaker3: "hello. how are you? i am fine. what is your name? my name is jerry."

speaker1: he translated it wrong. "my name is jerry"? it's like "see spot run." 
speaker2: the message doesn't show a lack of intelligence. it's smart. it's approaching us in a simple way. like you would a dog. holding out your hand, letting it sniff, get used to you.
speaker1: what am i -- a dog, now?
speaker1: edmunds, get in here. i need you for this.
speaker3: in a minute, sir.

speaker1: i want a name. a real name. this thing's full name, rank and serial number. 
speaker2: captain, i personally feel we should ask much more substantive questions --
speaker1: i am not gonna explain in some report that one person died in a deepsat expedition so we could meet an alien named jerry.
speaker3: first, we have to see if he'll talk at all.

speaker1: okay, jerry's talking. 
speaker2: what'd you say?
speaker1: "we are friends".
speaker3: cut the friends crap, get a name.

speaker1: "yes". good. now let's see if it'll switch over to english letters. "0032125252632 = hello" reply: "0032125252632 = hello" 
speaker2: it's not talking, it's mimicking.
speaker3: give him a chance. he's speaking our language, not the other way around.
speaker1: good idea, ted.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: what's he doing? reply:
speaker2: ignorant. the thing's ignorant.
speaker1: it's not ignorant.
speaker3: maybe it's

speaker1: are you enjoying yourself, harry, because i don't know what the you're doing. 
speaker2: he understands me fine. harry types: "yes" reply:
speaker3: harry types: "hello" a long beat. reply:
speaker4: well, he's polite.
speaker5: unless it's an act.
speaker6: why should it be an act?
speaker1: mexico? where'd he get mexico?
speaker5: he doesn't wait for an answer.
speaker6: who says it's a he?
speaker1: not now, beth. please. i want to know who we're talking to before we start talking. where's edmunds?
speaker2: she's not gonna know, sir.
speaker5: ask him. c'mon. say something. harry types: "we are. who are you?" reply: "we are"
speaker1: hell's that mean? "we are" what?
speaker5: we have to teach him plurals? harry: "no" "you are a many entity?" "no. we are many separate entities." "i understand. is there one control entity?"
speaker1: what?
speaker2: he's saying, "take me to your leader." he wants to know who's in charge.
speaker1: i'm in charge.
speaker1: with an "o". harold with an "o".
speaker2: what -- you want me to retype it? harry: "who are you?" "i am one" "where are you from?" "i am here" "where is the location from where you began?"
speaker5: "from where you began?" that's not even good english.
speaker1: what is that, a planet? "where is awareness?" "awareness is" "did you make a journey?" "yes. did you make a journey?" "yes"
speaker1: great, okay. ask him about his weapons.
speaker4: that's smart. let's talk about guns and violence.
speaker1: you don't think weapons are important?
speaker4: i think we should be careful.
speaker5: you want to put him on your couch, norman. grill him about his childhood?
speaker4: when he uses a phrase like "i am happy", i think we should think twice about what we ask him. "do not be afraid" the all stare at the screen, stunned.
speaker4: jerry, can you understand what we're saying? "every word" norman walks up to the screen, close to it.
speaker4: jerry, can you read our minds? "yes norman" barnes goes to the intercom...
speaker1: edmunds, i want you in here. now. norman focuses on the screen, staring. on the screen -- blank. norman concentrating, on the screen.
speaker4: jerry, are you there?
speaker1: we shouldn't talk here. shut it off.
speaker4: we would like to talk alone.
speaker4: and we enjoy talking with you.
speaker4: we'd like to talk with you more. we admire your talents and your great power and understanding.
speaker4: and in your great understanding, you know that we are entities who must talk in private -- with each other.
speaker4: we're not afraid, we are uncomfortable.
speaker4: not at all, we enjoy you very much, but we need to talk alone, without you listening.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker4: jerry?...
speaker4: jerry? are you still there?
speaker4: jerry?
speaker1: edmunds? get in here. i want to know exactly how this is being transmitted.
speaker2: she's not gonna know.
speaker1: she wired this system.
speaker2: if the technology of that sphere is advanced enough -- the way it functions is gonna appear to us like magic.

speaker1: it's like showing leonardo da vinci a laptop computer. he'd run screaming "witchcraft". and you couldn't explain it to him, either. modems, microchips, particle physics. 
speaker2: edmunds?

speaker1: don't make stuff up, these emotional theories, just so you can feel important here. 
speaker2: frankly, ted, i'd be much happier if jerry was just a cold, emotionless intellect.
speaker1: why's that?
speaker3: edmunds?
speaker2: because if jerry is powerful and also emotional...
speaker3: it, edmunds?
speaker2: ... it raises a very serious question:

speaker1: coast is clear. 
speaker1: norman, your suit -- it's leaking.
speaker1: norman. look at this.
speaker1: her flesh has been macerated. chewed. i've never seen a bite like this before. norman pulls her body out.
speaker2: i can't feel her bones. she's like a sponge.
speaker1: she was crushed. feel her skin -- it's like sandpaper.
speaker2: what could have done this?

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: the sensors are picking up something outside.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it won't register. it's too big to image.
speaker1: too big?

speaker1: norman. 
speaker2: what are they?
speaker1: eggs.
speaker3: you people need to hurry back. the sensors have activated. i don't think you're alone out there.
speaker2: what was it?
speaker4: barnes didn't know. couldn't get a reading.
speaker2: has harry spoken with jerry?
speaker4: not that i know of. why?
speaker2: jerry?
speaker2: jerry, are you there?
speaker4: you think jerry has something to do with what killed edmunds? with what's out there?
speaker2: i'm not sure.

speaker1: looking at the coating here, it's definitely marine invertebrate. 
speaker2: well, until we know exactly what it is, nobody goes outside, understood?
speaker3: what was edmunds doing outside?
speaker2: resetting the sub.
speaker3: what sub?
speaker2: in the dome hanger. all our tapes are transferred to the sub. it's on a 12 hour timer. if someone doesn't reset the "delay" button, the sub ascends to the surface with the tapes.
speaker4: what for?
speaker2: if something should happen to us, the navy will at least have partial records of what happened.
speaker4: at least our obituaries will be accurate. that's reassuring.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: i'm not sure. i've never seen anything like it.
speaker2: you're a biochemist, aren't you? can't you tell us something.

speaker1: ... he lied to us. he left us down here. 
speaker2: c'mon, beth. don't make this personal. he told me himself they were taking us back.
speaker1: yeah, he
speaker1: so who was barnes talking to at the last minute? nobody.
speaker2: you're jumping to conclusions, beth.
speaker1: you, norman! it's right here...
speaker1: "although advised of risks, all personnel elect to remain down for duration of storm to continue investigation of alien sphere and associated spacecraft. signed, barnes, usn."
speaker2: where did you get this?
speaker1: in edmunds' things.
speaker2: you went through edmunds' things?
speaker1: he's not just a navy captain -- he works for the pentagon.
speaker2: calm down, beth. alright?
speaker1: don't tell me to calm down!
speaker2: it's done, alright? it's over! and there's not a thing we can do about it now, okay?
speaker1: you said something to him, didn't you?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you told him about me?
speaker2: beth --
speaker1: you did, didn't you?
speaker2: don't do this.
speaker1: you bastard.
speaker2: beth, i didn't. hold it together. alright?
speaker1: yeah, okay. sure, norman.
speaker2: beth --
speaker1: no, i should stay calm. like you say. right, norman? stay calm.
speaker1: fletcher and edmunds are dead, norman. and the only one we can trust to run this place is a liar.

speaker1: i don't want you talking to jerry. 
speaker2: but sir, i think it's imperative. i think the messages, the animals we've seen, what killed edmunds, the reading you got earlier -- i think they're all related.
speaker3: jerry isn't hostile, norman. he said earlier -- we were his friends --
speaker2: of course he did. he's been isloated for 400 years. he wants someone to talk to. look, you put a human being in isolation for four days, they can become neurotic, sometimes psychotic. we're talking about 400 years here. an alien that shows emotional responses. i think we need to address him, before he reacts further.
speaker1: you think he killed edmunds?
speaker2: yes, i do. whatever's out there, i think is his response to us refusing to talk to him earlier.
speaker1: what's out there isn't alien. it's an animal.
speaker2: maybe so. but i think we need to ask jerry about it.
speaker1: no. i think we should shut down the communication lines inside the habitat. he might be listening now.
speaker4: i think he already is.

speaker1: nice work, captain sir. 
speaker2: shut up, beth. i don't want to hear it.
speaker3: jerry, we don't want to ignore you.
speaker3: we don't.
speaker3: jerry --

speaker1: jerry? 
speaker1: jerry?
speaker2: direction's east coming!
speaker3: what was that?
speaker2: going active.
speaker1: jerry?
speaker3: it looked like a tentacle. of a squid.
speaker2: a squid? the size of a whale? i don't think so. target acquired. sixty yards.

speaker1: what if it attacks? 
speaker2: fifty yards and closing.
speaker1: what do we use for defense?
speaker2: we're a habitat. not a castle. the only defense we have is high voltage.
speaker1: high voltage?
speaker2: it sends 200 volts throughout the cylinder surface. but we've never used it underwater before.

speaker1: forty yards. 
speaker2: but you've tested it?
speaker1: sure. each time it started fires inside the habitat.

speaker1: thirty yards. 
speaker2: what are you saying -- we can't stop what's out there?
speaker1: what the hell? it shut us down.
speaker3: jerry? please. stop this.
speaker1: ted, go into the control room. listen for my instructions. ted goes out the door.
speaker2: where is it?
speaker1: why can't i -- ? what the is going on here?
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: he's right beneath us.

speaker1: ted? ted? 
speaker2: sir, we're leaking!

speaker1: increase positive pressure! 
speaker2: that's our reserve air.
speaker1: it's either that or we grow gills.

speaker1: ted? ted, are you with me? 
speaker2: increasing positive pressure.

speaker1: that's enough ted. shut it off! 
speaker1: ted? ted!

speaker1: norman! norman can you hear me? 
speaker2: yes, sir. i'm here.
speaker1: you see the lever on the green box? upper right hand corner?
speaker2: high voltage defense system.

speaker1: you see the lever next to it? 
speaker2: don't do it, norman!
speaker1: do you see it? on norman -- turning from beth, to the lever.
speaker3: i see it.
speaker1: pull it.
speaker2: don't pull it, norman. it'll start a
speaker2: norman, don't do it!

speaker1: do it now! 
speaker2: don't do it!
speaker1: now!
speaker2: norman, please! don't!

speaker1: pull it, it! 
speaker2: norman!

speaker1: help! 
speaker1: beth! help, i can't -- !
speaker1: beth!
speaker1: be--
speaker2: stay low!
speaker3: it won't stop.
speaker4: norman!
speaker4: norman! nor-- bang! the lights go out.

speaker1: a long beat. 
speaker2: dr. johnson? dr. johnson?

speaker1: norman johnson. 
speaker2: does this mean what i think it means?
speaker1: it's over, sir, the storm has cleared.
speaker2: the ships?
speaker1: they're topside. we're ready to take you home, sir.
speaker2: how are the others?
speaker1: the others, sir?
speaker2: beth and harry?
speaker1: they're in the sub, sir. waiting.
speaker2: that whole time -- i couldn't stop thinking of what harry was saying earlier...
speaker1: what was that, sir?
speaker2: about the time paradox. how we were all going to die -- that there was no way we would make it out of here alive --

speaker1: ... how we were all going to die -- that there was no way we would make it out of here alive -- on the monitor -- the seaman disappers. 
speaker1: jerry?
speaker1: jerry, did you create that man?
speaker1: jerry, are you manifesting what's destroying our habitat?
speaker1: jerry, answer me.
speaker1: jerry? a beat. "stop calling me jerry" the monitor shuts off.

speaker1: where are you going in such a hurry? 
speaker2: i have to reset the sub.
speaker1: forget the sub.
speaker2: don't bother me, norman.
speaker1: it's not worth the risk.
speaker2: it's also our only way out of here! it holds three people. and there's only three of us left now.
speaker1: you, me and harry?
speaker2: you, me and harry. he's asleep.
speaker1: wake him, then. let's go. get outta --
speaker2: we can't. the storm. the waves would toss us around worse than we got down here. and we have four days of decompression when we get up top.
speaker1: four days?
speaker2: get the helium out of our bloodstream. we go to the surface now, we'd pop like a soda bottle.
speaker2: maybe you should go. to the sub.
speaker1: why should i go?
speaker2: you should know how it works. just in case.
speaker1: in case you die, too?
speaker2: i don't trust harry to do it.
speaker1: i would. but my suit --
speaker2: i fixed your suit.
speaker1: you fixed my suit?
speaker2: you don't trust me?
speaker1: but i don't know how --
speaker2: you press a button, norman. it's not brain surgery. here, go ahead. you only have 15 minutes to reset it. go on, norman...
speaker2: ... i'll watch the sensors for you.

speaker1: you're clear, norman. 
speaker1: the sub's a 100 feet in front of you. you see it?
speaker2: i can't see anything. how does it look? still clear?
speaker1: still clear.
speaker1: what's the matter?
speaker2: you fixed this suit? beth?
speaker1: yes, norman. i did. you're just nervous.
speaker2: my air isn't... i'm coming back.
speaker1: you can't. counter's at 10 minutes. you don't have time.
speaker2: still clear?
speaker1: still clear.
speaker2: i'm in. hello?
speaker2: beth?
speaker2: beth? hello?

speaker1: beth! beth! there's something -- ! 
speaker1: beth!
speaker1: beth? can you hear me?

speaker1: beth? beth? the habitat -- ahead of him. 
speaker2: ... you there? norman?
speaker1: harry?
speaker2: norman, where are you?
speaker1: i can't breathe... am i... clear?
speaker2: you're clear. you see the airlock?
speaker3: hisses at his faceplate. norman screams.
speaker2: norman!

speaker1: thank you. my suit -- beth said she fixed it -- 
speaker2: what happened to her?
speaker1: what do you mean? she's not here?
speaker2: when i woke up, nobody was here.
speaker1: she was supposed to be watching the sensor for me.
speaker2: her suit's gone.
speaker1: beth left?
speaker2: i thought she was with you.
speaker3: ... what do you mean? i'm in the ship.
speaker1: what are you doing in the ship? beth?
speaker3: getting food. we were out of food.
speaker1: yeah, well, i get that way when i'm facing death and someone deserts me.
speaker3: deserts you? harry said he'd take over for me.
speaker1: he what?
speaker3: when he woke up, he said we were out of food. he told me to get some from the ship.
speaker2: i never said that.
speaker3: yes you did. norman, i wouldn't leave you out there. you know that.
speaker2: we never even had a conversation, norman.
speaker3: harry? that's we stood right there -- harry covers the mic...
speaker2: she's cracking, norman.
speaker1: you didn't say that about the food?
speaker2: i was just in the cafeteria, there's plenty of food in there. take a look for yourself.
speaker1: but why would she -- ?
speaker2: she's lying, norman. just like she lied about fixing your suit.
speaker3: you get it straightened out?
speaker1: i think so, beth. yes.

speaker1: what's harry doing with your suit in there? 
speaker2: fixing it.
speaker1: fixing it? but i fixed -- where'd you get all that?
speaker2: the refridgerator.
speaker1: the refridgerator.
speaker2: it's a pretty common place to look for food when you don't think you have any.
speaker1: that wasn't in there before.
speaker2: we must've had it delivered then.
speaker1: wait a second --
speaker2: 1-800-deepsea delivery. i hear they're good.
speaker1: none of this was here before.
speaker2: did you look? it was on the top shelf.
speaker1: no, it wasn't. i swear none of this was here. none of it. you think he hid it? earlier. he must've hid it.
speaker2: you think?
speaker1: you don't believe me.
speaker2: all i know is i opened that refridgerator --
speaker1: it, norman. i swear. i had a whole conversation with the man when he woke up.
speaker2: this being after you so carefully fixed my suit.
speaker1: you think it's me? you think i'm saying there was a conversation when there wasn't?
speaker2: i don't know, beth. i wasn't there.
speaker1: it, norman! he's lying. don't you get it? there is something seriously up going on here -- and he's causing it. why can't you believe me?

speaker1: what is it, norman? norman? 
speaker1: norman?
speaker2: page 87.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: page 87. "i could never read that far."
speaker2: "our fisherman frequently see some that are more than four feet long.
speaker1: squids?
speaker2: "... according to calculations of some naturalists, one of these animals, only six feet long, would have tentacles 27 feet long. that would make a formidable monster."
speaker1: norman?

speaker1: after the attack, a navy guy woke me up -- i don't know -- i thought he was an illusion. but i checked the tape, and jerry said he manifested him. 
speaker2: manifested?
speaker1: created. brought to life. i don't know. but at the end, jerry said, "stop calling me jerry". and -- norman stops, staring at the pad.
speaker1: he translated it wrong.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: hello. how are you? i am fine. what is your name?...

speaker1: remember when we first spoke to jerry, barnes kept asking for jerry's real name? but harry never would? he didn't because he was afraid the screen would say "harry", instead of jerry. we weren't talking to an alien intelligence when we talked to jerry, we were talking to harry... or a part of harry. 
speaker2: what do you mean, a part of harry?

speaker1: when did the messages start? the animals outside start showing up? 
speaker2: you think, in the sphere --
speaker1: he acquired some sort of power. a power to manifest things.
speaker2: but how?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: how can the sphere do that?
speaker1: i don't know, beth. i'm not the alien that built the thing. but it can. when harry came out of the sphere, he mumbled something about page 87. how he would never read that far -- he was too scared to. then you found the book, remember in your lab. then in the cafeteria -- and page 87 talks about a giant squid...
speaker2: which i told barnes was attacking --
speaker1: it's his fear. the squid. he's manifesting his fears. making them real.
speaker2: but why is he doing it?
speaker1: he must not realize he is. like the navy crewman -- harry was sleeping then. he must've manifested his dream.
speaker2: his dream? you can't control your dreams. and you can't control your fears, can you?
speaker1: no. i mean, we've always believed we can think anything we want without consequences. you ever read the bible? it talks about our sinful nature, you know? i mean, we can think, and believe, and desire whatever we want, but there's a part of us -- a shadow side, as jung called it -- that can't be controlled. it's evil.

speaker1: and that's the part of harry that's being manifested. 
speaker2: must be. and if it is -- it's a part of him not even he can control.

speaker1: beth and norman watch... 
speaker2: looks like some sort of code.
speaker3: why would harry go back to using a code?
speaker4: you mean jerry, don't you?
speaker3: jerry. right. i said jerry, didn't

speaker1: that's a of a mistake to make, beth. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. slip of the tongue.
speaker1: yeah, i don't know how you could make that confusion.
speaker1: wisconsin's your answer.
speaker3: wisconsin?
speaker1: navy transmission. they're sent from wisconsin.
speaker3: how do we decode it?
speaker1: don't have to. watch. it'll do it for you.
speaker3: the cavalry is on it's way.
speaker2: just in time, too.
speaker1: in time for what?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: just in time for what?
speaker2: our habitat, i mean. this place can't handle another attack.
speaker1: another attack?
speaker1: why are you looking at me like that?
speaker2: like what? i'm not --
speaker1: you're staring at me.
speaker2: no i'm not. i'm not star--
speaker1: yes you are...
speaker1: did i miss something? you two seemed to patch things up awfully fast.
speaker3: we just figured, you know, the three of us -- we need to... work together through this.
speaker1: the three of us.
speaker3: that's right.
speaker1: is that why the two of you went through my dufflebag?

speaker1: diphenyl parlene. 
speaker2: something for burns.
speaker1: ephedrine hydrochloride. beth at the computer, looking up the names...
speaker2: it's for motion sickness.
speaker1: valdomet.
speaker2: ulcers.
speaker1: sintag.
speaker2: a synthetic opium analogue.
speaker1: does it cause drowsiness? that's all we need. to get him unconscious -- put him under.
speaker2: nothing about drowsiness.
speaker1: tarazine?
speaker2: tranquilizer. causes drowsiness.
speaker1: bingo.
speaker2: "... and may also cause bizarre halucinations".
speaker1: riordan?
speaker2: antihistamine. for bites.
speaker1: it! chloramphenicol?
speaker2: antibiotic.
speaker1: parasolutrine?
speaker2: how do you spell it?
speaker1: p-a-r-a-s-o...
speaker2: it's a soporific.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: causes sleep.
speaker1: it's like a sleeping pill?
speaker2: "... used as an anesthetic if given in combination with paracin trichloride... " norman digs, finds paracin trichloride...
speaker1: here we go.
speaker1: "20 cc's of parasolutrine in combination with 6 cc's of paracin given iv produces deep sleep suitable for emergency surgical procedures... no cardiac side effects ... rem activity is surpressed... "
speaker2: how long does it last?
speaker1: three to six hours.
speaker2: i'll just boost the doses.
speaker1: what? wait -- isn't that dangerous?
speaker2: how fast does it take effect?
speaker1: doesn't say.
speaker2: what if it takes 20 minutes, norman? what if it takes an hour? and he can fight it off? we can't afford that.
speaker1: what is that? what are you doing? what do you want to do -- kill him?
speaker2: it's an idea.
speaker1: beth --
speaker2: to be on the safe side. i mean --
speaker1: you want to kill him?
speaker2: look, it's either him or us, norman. another attack, and we go down with this place.
speaker2: you ever given an injection before.
speaker1: thirty years ago. in residency. i passed out. you?
speaker2: only lab rats. here.
speaker2: give him the whole thing. hurry, before he wakes up.
speaker1: where do i stick it?

speaker1: harry! 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: you know what it is, harry.
speaker3: it's the squid! stop it!
speaker2: stop what? what are you -- ?
speaker3: you know well what. you're doing it!
speaker2: doing what? i'm not doing anything -- !

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: not believing you.
speaker2: you're not sorry. you're scared. you're a psychologist, norman. you pride yourself on knowing when someone's lying to you, not telling you the truth. and now you're scared ... because you're not sure you can tell anymore.

speaker1: beth? 
speaker1: beth?
speaker1: can you copy?

speaker1: beth? 
speaker2: what is it, norman?
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: in the sub. resetting the timer. why?
speaker1: the sphere looks different.
speaker2: what do you mean, different?
speaker1: the grooves around the door -- they've shifted. and the pattern -- the fluids -- they look darker now.
speaker2: how's harry?
speaker1: he's fine.

speaker1: beth -- 
speaker1: beth? beth? can you hear me? get the out of there.
speaker1: beth? beth?
speaker1: beth? i'm getting some sort of reading. there's something --
speaker1: and whatever it is, it's not coming from harry. norman looks at the monitors:
speaker1: beth? what is that? what are you doing?
speaker1: can you hear me? beth? can you copy? get inside, there's something out there.
speaker1: it, beth, i know you hear me. the monitors blink: "i am coming for you" on norman -- breathing heavy.
speaker1: what the hell?

speaker1: beth? c'mon. what are you -- ? 
speaker1: oh
speaker1: it's her.
speaker2: norman? norman?

speaker1: ouch. 
speaker2: norman looks over at the sinks.

speaker1: what time is it, norman? 
speaker1: do you know the time?
speaker1: i have to know the time of day, norman. do you know?
speaker2: your watch.
speaker1: what was that? i couldn't hear you.
speaker2: your watch.
speaker1: oh yes, my watch. i almost forgot.
speaker1: splendid.

speaker1: isotonic glucose supplement. 
speaker1: go ahead, drink it.
speaker1: what's wrong, norman?
speaker2: i'm feeling better.
speaker1: are you?
speaker1: it's getting cold.
speaker2: you think i'd really drink that?
speaker1: you don't think i put something in it, do you?
speaker2: you put explosives around the habitat, i can't imagine what you'd put in a drink.
speaker1: i did do that, didn't i?
speaker2: how do you feel about snakes?
speaker1: snakes? what do you mean, exactly?
speaker2: you know what i mean.
speaker1: am i afraid of them? not during the day. sea snakes are diurnal. when the sun's out, they don't bite. fortunately for you, i had on my watch. this is quite good.
speaker2: what are they doing down here? in the bathroom? suddenly appearing.
speaker1: you tell me.
speaker2: do you fear them?
speaker1: don't you?
speaker2: are you manifesting them?
speaker1: if i was, then i would've had to have gone in the sphere, wouldn't

speaker1: did you? 
speaker2: what's the phrase -- "keeping up with the joneses"?
speaker1: why did you go in the sphere, beth?
speaker2: same reason i put explosives around the habitat. for defense. for the power. to protect myself.
speaker1: against what? harry's unconscious.
speaker2: no, he isn't.
speaker1: he can't manifest.
speaker2: no, he can't.
speaker1: then why, beth? why go in? why put out explosives? why manifest the snakes?
speaker2: you think i manifested the snakes?
speaker1: someone did.
speaker2: yes, someone did. but it wasn't me, norman. it was you. you manifested the snakes.
speaker1: beth you're losing it. c'mon.
speaker2: c'mon -- what?
speaker1: you're lying --
speaker2: am i lying? are you sure? are you absolutely sure i'm lying? then explain to me about the jellyfish. earlier. why did we see jellyfish? harry doesn't fear jellyfish. you do. they're your fear, aren't they?
speaker1: but --
speaker2: and the snakes? you want to know about the snakes? you saw one outside earlier, didn't you? when you thought i had deserted you -- you were terrified.
speaker1: that's when you went in the sphere.
speaker2: one lonely, terrifying sea snake.
speaker1: you manifested that, beth.
speaker2: did i? or was that you? when you were hiding in the bathroom -- all conspiratorially like you were -- you became frightened, didn't you? terrified. like you were with the snake earlier -- and suddenly you have snakes slithering all over the floor. you did that, norman.
speaker1: you're insane.
speaker2: am i? or am i making so much sense that you're going insane?
speaker1: i never went in that sphere.
speaker2: you don't remember you did. but i'm sure you remember running like some hero to get harry, don't you? you remember that.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you remember before you picked him up -- when you looked up at the sphere, you remember that -- when the sphere opened? that's right. but you can't remember going inside, can you? no, of course not. harry couldn't either, could he? "like everything's on the tip of my tongue", he said.
speaker1: that's
speaker2: is it?
speaker1: beth, the message said harry. "my name is harry". my name isn't harry.
speaker2: no, it isn't. your name is norman. but your younger brother -- what was his name? the one who was stung when you were younger. the one that died. the one you couldn't save. what was his name? "mommy, we're going out to the ocean -- to go swimming." "but i don't want to go swimming, norman. i'm scared." "c'mon,
speaker2: when you were in that sub -- and that squid was attacking you -- are you sure it was the squid that was attacking? do you know? "i can't get beth on the radio. i'm in this tiny sub on the bottom of the ocean. all alone. surrounded by all this water." was it really the squid that was attacking you, norman -- or was it something else -- one of your fears? you never really saw what it was, did you?
speaker2: i'm not scaring you, am i norman? i hope i'm not frightening you. the last thing i want to do is frighten you. you feel okay, don't you?
speaker1: it's not me, beth. i swear. it can't be.
speaker2: "it's not me, beth. it's not me. it can't be. i'm not doing anything." just like harry said before i stabbed him with the needle.
speaker1: don't, beth.
speaker2: but i have to, norman.
speaker1: i promise --
speaker2: promise what, norman? tell me!
speaker1: beth --
speaker2: you think i'd belive you? believe anything you might say now? after you lied to me about telling barnes about my past. about my problems. my problems. not yours. not his. mine.
speaker1: don't, beth. please.
speaker2: it's either this... or i kill you.
speaker1: beth -- she comes at him, needle in hand...
speaker2: it's your choice. because it's not safe for you to be awake. to be walking around. to be thinking about things.
speaker1: it's not safe for you to be either.
speaker2: you think i care? you think i care if i die? would i put explosives around the habitat -- set on vibration sensors -- that can trigger automatically, if i cared about myself? would i? i've tried twice before, norman, why wouldn't i try a third time? i'm not thinking about myself -- no, norman, i'm thinking about you. your safety. protecting you from your own self.
speaker2: norman! i'm doing this for you, norman.
speaker2: norman.
speaker2: come here, norman.

speaker1: norman -- 
speaker1: this is what i'm talking about, norman. don't you see? it's in you.
speaker2: get away from the door, beth.
speaker1: oh, norman, i don't want to come in...

speaker1: of course you're going to deny it. you want to blame someone else. you want to blame beth. because you hate beth. 
speaker2: don't with me, beth.
speaker1: i'm not with you, norman. you've yourself.
speaker2: turn off the water, beth.
speaker2: beth!
speaker1: you're frightened, aren't you, norman?
speaker2: where is it coming from, beth?
speaker1: don't you know?
speaker2: beth, stop it!
speaker1: stop what? don't blame me. it's not me.
speaker2: then where's it coming from?
speaker1: from you, norman. from your mind. you're doing it.
speaker1: there's no ventalation in the room, norman. the pressure's going to kill you.
speaker2: stop it!
speaker1: it's you, norman. your fear of drowning. you have to face it.
speaker1: c'mon, norman. let me put you under.

speaker1: it's over, norman. 
speaker1: don't even think it. you don't have your suit, norman. the water will freeze you.

speaker1: it won't help, norman. your body is boyant. you're gonna shoot right to the surface and explode, norman. don't you get it? it's over. 
speaker1: norman, what are you doing! you're insa--

speaker1: i know what you're doing, norman. but you can't save yourself. 
speaker1: it's over, norman. it's all over.
speaker2: your attention, please. your attention, please. all construction personnel clear the blast area now. tevac explosives are now activated. countdown beginning. mark 15 minutes, and counting.

speaker1: floats by his faceplate. 
speaker2: norman, where are you? i can't see you, norman. tell me where you are.
speaker3: twelve minutes, and counting.

speaker1: eleven minutes, and counting. 
speaker2: beth? can you hear me? beth.

speaker1: beth? 
speaker2: leave me alone, norman.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: you can't stop it, norman. you can't fight me.
speaker1: i know. you're too strong, beth.
speaker2: oh please, don't shrink me, norman.

speaker1: don't tell me about me. i already know too much. 
speaker2: beth -- gimme the gun.
speaker1: oh, sure. here. anything else, beth can get you? some more chicken, perhaps. let beth check the fridge.
speaker2: c'mon --
speaker1: top shelf, is it?
speaker2: let's get out of here, beth. let's go home.
speaker3: nine minutes, and counting.
speaker2: c'mon, beth.
speaker1: it's over, norman. go on, get outta here.
speaker1: what is that? what are you doing?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you hear that?
speaker2: hear what?
speaker1: get away from me!
speaker2: beth --
speaker1: get away --
speaker4: did i kill her?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker4: i could hit her a little harder. more toward the cranium.
speaker4: if she's still conscious, you can't fight her. you can't stop the numbers.
speaker3: eight minutes and counting.
speaker4: killing her's the only way --
speaker2: hey! look! we didn't kill you, alright? and believe me harry, i would've found great pleasure in bashing your head in.
speaker4: fine.
speaker2: help me lift her.

speaker1: we're never gonna make it. 
speaker2: shut up and open the door.

speaker1: how much time you figure to get to the surface? 
speaker2: two and a half minutes. once we're in the sub.
speaker1: how far away's the sub?
speaker3: six minutes and counting.
speaker2: a little less than six minutes.

speaker1: harry! i'm gonna have to lift her up to you. 
speaker2: alright. hurry.
speaker2: i can't reach her.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker2: push her, c'mon.
speaker1: i'm trying. here -- catch her.
speaker2: missed.
speaker1: are you trying, it? just --
speaker3: four minutes and counting.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker2: hurry, norman. four minutes.
speaker1: i heard! i heard!
speaker2: three fifty-six, three fifty-five, three --
speaker1: shut up and catch.
speaker2: i got her. i got her.

speaker1: alright, here, i'll... wait, you -- just give her to me. 
speaker2: norman, what are you --
speaker1: alright, harry, get in there.
speaker3: three minutes and counting...
speaker1: take her, come on. just --
speaker2: c'mon, norman!
speaker1: i'm trying to keep balance with --
speaker2: gimme a second --
speaker1: just pull her -- down like inside -- harry, work with me here!
speaker2: her legs are in the way.
speaker1: you got her?
speaker1: get her out of the seat, i need room to sit. harry?
speaker2: i'm trying. there.
speaker3: two minutes-thirty and counting.

speaker1: you know how to work this thing? 
speaker2: no idea.
speaker1: well, press something!
speaker2: wait!
speaker3: two minutes and counting.
speaker1: how long did you say --
speaker2: shut up. let me think. norman presses a button.

speaker1: less than a minute, we're never gonna make it. 
speaker2: nine hundred feet to surface.
speaker1: it's not fast enough, norman. there's a helluva lot of explosive down there.
speaker3: thirty seconds to detonation.
speaker1: the shock wave's gonna crush us, norman.
speaker2: maybe. brace yourself.
speaker1: how's that working out, by the way?
speaker2: good. thank you. now that i have it on. why are you laughing? you don't even know what that means.
speaker1: no. i don't. but i always said to myself, when i die, i want to die laughing. harry laughs. ascending... waiting... and then... a thunderous explosion below them...

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: you know, i think you really need to see a psychologist.

speaker1: has anyone spoken to them yet? 
speaker2: the admiral's going over the tapes they brought up now.
speaker1: does he know yet what really happened down there?
speaker3: they're going to want answers and they're going to keep asking until they get them.
speaker4: we can refuse to talk.
speaker3: won't make any difference. the tapes document everything.
speaker5: there is one possibility.
speaker3: we all kill ourselves? bad joke. sorry, beth.
speaker5: the power allows us to manifest our fears, right? what if we feared the power to go away?
speaker3: you mean forget?
speaker5: it would erase all our knowledge of it. all of our power.
speaker4: would it work?
speaker5: yes. and i think we already know it will.
speaker4: how's that?
speaker5: down below, harry said we would all have to die. since there was no evidence on that spacecraft that anybody knew time travel through a black hole was possible -- and we all knew -- then we would all have to die before we could tell anyone. death was the only logical explanation. but sitting here, we still know. so how is that possible? unless we make ourselves forget.

speaker1: there are some questions that we need to address here. 
speaker2: what about?
speaker1: when you were being transferred to decompression, dr. adams, you mentioned something about a squid.
speaker2: a what?
speaker1: a squid. however, there doesn't seem to be any squid recorded on these tapes.
speaker3: a squid? i don't remember anything about a squid. did you say something about a squid, harry?

speaker1: you all ready to go, dr... ? 
speaker2: johnson. the psychologist. the one that wrote the report.
speaker3: what report?

