speaker1: baker. you got it solved? 
speaker2: i was with someone, all right?
speaker1: so? this is work.
speaker2: hector, i hardly know the guy. why be impolite to strangers?
speaker1: look at those assholes...
speaker1: if the vermeer were lying on that table, they'd toss their doughnuts on it.
speaker2: yeh, well, they didn't insure it, so they don't
speaker2: he came in through the window.
speaker1: that's not possib...
speaker2: what's not possible is entry through the doors or the vents. that would have triggered instant alarm.
speaker1: the windows are wired, too.
speaker2: only for trauma. they used smart glass, where the sensors respond to violation of the panel's integrity.
speaker2: i think he scaled the wall, popped the frame. in one piece.
speaker2: then, he only had to deal with heat and motion sensors. they were on 60-second delay, so the owner wouldn't trigger the alarm just be walking arou...
speaker1: the pane weighs 200 pounds, the building's 1100 feet high.
speaker2: this particular guy is the best. the best there ever was.
speaker1: popping the frame would trigger the alarm.
speaker2: here's how i figured it out...
speaker2: no one arranges flowers like that. it was the draft from the window.
speaker1: you said. this particular guy.
speaker2: andrew macdougal.
speaker1: why not houdini? or pretty boy floyd? maybe christ.
speaker2: because they couldn't do it.
speaker1: he's been out of the business.
speaker2: don't be a putz. this is his
speaker1: oh, i get it. he has no interest in vermeers, so that proves he stole one. by that logic, he oughta be a suspect most of the time.
speaker2: you love to embarrass yourself.
speaker2: the auction. where our client
speaker2: staking it out. why bid, when you can mark the buyer, and jack it within the month?
speaker2: at this moment, he is winging on jal flight 307 to narita,
speaker2: bet your ass. at vegas odds.
speaker2: research reveals three known fences, still at large, who are believed to have brokered vermeers to black market buyers. sandrine palmer is hospitalized in malta with ovarian cancer.

speaker1: the other two. live in tokyo. 
speaker2: and you did all this since 4:30 this morning.

speaker1: uh. i'm showing off. 
speaker2: something of a habit?
speaker2: you know the alleged value of this piece from some

speaker1: virginia romay... 
speaker2: gin, actually, gin romay. i was named after a card game.
speaker1: or a cheap cocktail. she blinks. his brows raise... mac as in. i'll have a gin romay, please. with a twist.
speaker2: you're supposed to be charming.
speaker1: i'm supposed to be selective.
speaker1: art and antiquities acquisition advisor, how alliterative...
speaker1: and am i the antiquity?
speaker2: in mint condition.
speaker2: look, i've studied you, i know... pretty much...everything.
speaker2: made your first millions selling scrap metal. then, gold mining concessions, gems, art, and lately strategic metals for new technologies - platinum, zirconium, titanium...
speaker1: you said. everything.
speaker2: the cat burglar stories? why would anyone...with so much to lose...take those kinds of risks?
speaker2: you'd have to be. stupid.
speaker1: excuse me.
speaker2: i didn't know porsche made things like this.
speaker1: well, they don't...
speaker1: ...as a rule.
speaker2: recognize that?
speaker2: my seller is in shinjuku, we can go there tonight.
speaker2: he wants 4.6 million. i can get it for three.
speaker1: no, you can't.

speaker1: ...only it's not 
speaker1: my favorite thing in life. coincidence.
speaker2: i'm staying here, what's your excuse?
speaker1: staying here, as well. you are in room...? gin one thirty-eight.
speaker1: will you send a half-bottle of chateau d'yquem '67 to room 138, please? and some berries and chocolates for the lady to enjoy it with.
speaker1: actually, i was just across the room, dickering with a gentleman over the purchase of an interesting spitzweg. until i determined the painting was apparently stolen...
speaker1: goes against my grain. the dekooning in your slide, the 4.6 million you can get for 3. can you get it for 2 and a half?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: my checkbook is in my safe. you wait here.
speaker2: okay. i'll wait here.

speaker1: that's my purse. 
speaker2: just want to see if i'm with the person you say you are. can't be too caref...
speaker3: mac oh, dear.
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker2: these are my papers, passport, car registration. if the police arri...
speaker1: you're going to need stitches, let me get you to a hospital.
speaker1: really, this can all wait. i'll handle it.
speaker2: that's actually. very sweet.

speaker1: mr. macdougal? sir? 
speaker1: uh. mr. ma... mac just 'mac'. and whatever became of a gentleman's privacy?
speaker2: my more females?
speaker1: i was worried, it's been twenty...
speaker2: eighteen, actually. the leg is fine, but i got sort of...woozy.
speaker1: woozy.
speaker2: lost my stomach once or twice.
speaker2: i'm an old man. you probably noticed.
speaker2: you should see me without my teeth.
speaker2: ah. mustn't forget to zip up.
speaker2: odd place, this.
speaker2: what do you suppose they make here? video recorders?
speaker1: microchips, i think, for computers.
speaker2: bad investment. the best ones are here today...
speaker2: gone tomor...

speaker1: this isn't the way to my sel... mac i've changed my mind. 
speaker1: mind telling me why?
speaker2: you can't get it for me at 2.5, can you?
speaker1: well, we can tr...
speaker2: you were setting me up. the correct price is 2.8. you conspire with the seller to start at 4.6, so i'll be grateful when you 'bargain' him down to three. close enough to fool some people. unfortunately...
speaker2: i'm old. i know what everything is worth.
speaker1: so where are we g...
speaker2: i am going to the airport. you are going on to the rest of your life. which...
speaker2: ...should be interesting.
speaker1: you forgot your lugg...
speaker2: the hotels deal with that. the things i need are always waiting at the next one. i don't carry. baggage.
speaker1: sensible. and you're off to...?
speaker2: oh, that's highly personal.
speaker1: i did so hope to impress you.
speaker2: young lady. i am old enough to be your grandfather. she shakes her head. uh-uh. gin my father. leans her mouth in for the kill. gin that's part of the rush.

speaker1: here. a reward. 
speaker2: a reward for what?
speaker1: for not being old. after all.
speaker2: you mean. not as old as i look. she traces her finger along his cheek. gin yeh.
speaker1: do i deserve a reward?
speaker1: it's so hard to find good casual sex, anymore. i'm probably out of practice.
speaker2: what's hard to find. is someone you truly want to be with.
speaker2: even for awhile.
speaker1: it's lucky we stopped by my room, for the wine.
speaker1: otherwise, we'd never have found my bag was stolen. until tomorrow.
speaker2: would that make it more stolen?
speaker1: they even got my prescriptions.
speaker2: something you need? there are all-night chemists...
speaker1: i take prilosec. for stomach acid. and an inhaler. for asthma.
speaker1: but since i didn't have to work all that hard tonight...
speaker1: why would someone steal
speaker1: such as...
speaker2: well. wannabe dealers make excellent fences.
speaker1: he thought i had a stolen painting. in my bag.
speaker2: i'm joking, of course.
speaker2: the vermeer wouldn't fit.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: why, did you do something wrong?
speaker1: you said. vermeer.
speaker2: the most famous painting stolen this week.
speaker2: if you don't keep up on your craft. you'll miss all the jokes.

speaker1: i'm so glad i didn't leave tokyo. 
speaker2: i love a guy who knows how to sweet talk.
speaker1: there was a call. while you were sleeping.
speaker1: an art dealer i know. he has a monet. minor, but it
speaker2: me.
speaker1: if i'm there, he'll haggle. you just hand him the debit card, with that...luminous smile. and say, take it or leave it.
speaker1: oh, dear. i thought you so wanted to make a good impression.
speaker2: thought i already did th...
speaker1: and along with making an
speaker1: any problems. just give me a ring.
speaker2: stolen painting is it?
speaker1: of course not.
speaker1: if it was. i wouldn't pay more than three.

speaker1: you doin' it. 
speaker2: i think there's some mista...
speaker1: you from mac?
speaker2: i'm from mac.
speaker1: lemme see card.
speaker1: four million, six hundred thirteen thousand, five hundred?
speaker2: you first.
speaker1: this as real as it gets, lady.
speaker3: you got it? gin is this an audition, a joke, or a rip-off? i'm staring at an obvious forgery, here.
speaker3: turn it over.
speaker3: is there an envelope? taped to the back? in a ziploc bag? sure is. gin uh-huh.
speaker3: detach the bag. read what's in it. aloud.
speaker3: papers
speaker3: while he's checking, look around the room casually, as if searching for the cheesy handbags...
speaker3: all the while laughing, as if you are chatting with someone you actually
speaker3: call out cheerily to okati, in english, 'where's the toilet?' gin can i say, 'little girl's room'?
speaker3: wing it.

speaker1: get going. now. gin mac, the painting isn't... 
speaker1: you've got what we bought, are you out of their sight?

speaker1: jump. 
speaker1: the

speaker1: i guess you're gonna explain all this, huh? 
speaker2: dry clothes, you'll need them. in five minutes.
speaker1: i'm supposed to change?
speaker1: there are a million
speaker2: you probably won't be dating any of them, so what the hell.
speaker2: found 'em in your room. perhaps the thief wasn't your size.
speaker2: we have a business appointment. in four minutes.
speaker1: business, huh?
speaker1: uh. am i gonna like th... mac i'm a thief.
speaker2: or...
speaker2: ...you can spend the most interesting three weeks of your life. training.
speaker1: training for wha...
speaker2: ...followed by the most exciting
speaker2: from now on. you can valet park.
speaker1: and if i refuse? mac don't. please.
speaker1: i mean, you won't
speaker1: what could you possibly steal in 18 min...
speaker2: thirty-five
speaker2: i stole your suitcase when i left you at the bar. i have since sent it on to the states, with
speaker2: they receive. an anonymous. tip.
speaker1: that's entrapment.
speaker2: no, entrapment is what cops do to robbers.
speaker2: blackmail. is what robbers do to schmucks. and leans. to kiss her mouth. mac even adorable ones.
speaker2: pop quiz.
speaker2: admit it's a rush. the best day of your heretofore drab life.
speaker1: you.
speaker1: ...accompanied by related foreplay. and gives him the smile. what a gal.

speaker1: nickerson carlsby, mr... 
speaker2: banquo macduff. this is my associate-fiancee, ms. duncan.
speaker3: that is...fiancee
speaker2: i'm a scot. it's a different country. culturally and historically. i see. carlsby well. they've brought you to quite the wrong place, i see. mac thank
speaker3: five feet thick with hidden rein- forcements, no way to drill through! gin impressive.
speaker3: only the tip of our security iceberg. see these two brinks locks...?
speaker3: the captain keeps one key. the other is continually forwarded: to the chief of security at next port. there is no way to enter during voyage.
speaker4: i like this.
speaker3: the best armed guard, rotated every six hours. a redundancy, of course, but we would rather be safe three times over than merely two.
speaker4: sound mathematics. mac what if there's a fire? in the chamber.
speaker3: sprinklers. new design. incredible power. the entire chamber is water- proof, fireproof, airtight. if the ship
speaker2: wine.
speaker2: the japs bought up half the premium clarets in the universe. you may have heard.
speaker2: i'm in charge of shipping some 14,000 bottles, most quite rare, to a number of premium hotels in hong kong, bangkok, singapore, phuket, and penang.
speaker2: all of which are destinations on your october voyage. five months from now. however...
speaker2: wine. doesn't prefer. to be jostled.
speaker3: our 'delicate treasure' platforms, suspended on gimbals. your cargo remains unruffled by roiling seas. then, on arrival, is plucked...
speaker3: by that forklift, and gently deposited on dock through the cargo hatch...
speaker2: adequate. i suppose.
speaker2: did we see...a bathing pool.
speaker3: oh, yes, sir. the shikoku maru carries sixteen luxury suite pas- senger cabins. the finest cuisine. for valued clients who prefer to cruise in privacy.
speaker2: mildly. interesting.

speaker1: adequate. i suppose. 
speaker2: but dearest, in five months, we'll be in cape town.
speaker1: anything sooner? that goes perhaps from...say, sri lanka? to jakarta.
speaker3: why, yes. in three weeks.

speaker1: you seem depressed. 
speaker2: at your insistence, i'm leaping to my death, and i don't know
speaker2: i'm not jumping until you
speaker1: what
speaker2: what does it do, make gold?
speaker1: we're nearing the targ...
speaker2: why won't you trust me?
speaker1: how do i know who you are, hmmn?
speaker1: for all i know, your name isn't virginia romay. maybe you're a cop.
speaker2: why would a cop do all th... mac entrapment, remember? what cops do to robbers. gin oh. that.
speaker1: one...two...
speaker2: mac, i'm afraid.
speaker2: of you. mac smart girl.

speaker1: all right, six and seven... 
speaker1: three and four...

speaker1: what the are we building? 
speaker2: a chalet, i think. or an outhouse.

speaker1: forty seconds. 
speaker2: get your

speaker1: this time, when you raise your arm. don't breathe. 
speaker1: very, very nice. had a tour with the mosad, did you?
speaker2: where does this fit in the game plan?
speaker1: oh, it doesn't. but one never knows...
speaker1: you might need it with me.

speaker1: this one, i will 
speaker2: quite remarkable.
speaker2: take the rest of the evening off.

speaker1: webber assurance. 
speaker2: this is oh-four-six-one. hector cruz, please, on a secure line.
speaker1: please hold.
speaker1: go ahead, please.
speaker2: thank y... the line goes dead.
speaker2: ...no way i'm telling you
speaker3: baker, this is an extremely
speaker2: if i tell you
speaker2: right to the wall.
speaker3: you're over your head, baker.
speaker2: only romantically. i'll write to him in prison.
speaker3: okay, it's your funeral. next time i see you, i owe you a spanking.
speaker2: ooooo. is that a promise?
speaker3: while you're on secure, do you want a transfer?
speaker2: nope. i'm headed back to the hot tub. i'll call again, if i'm in the mood.

speaker1: i'm freezing my tender parts. 
speaker2: i'm relieved to hear you have some.
speaker2: what's amazing, is that only eleven workers died during construction of this thing... gin ...thanks for sharing...
speaker2: of course, the others were saved by a safety net.
speaker1: one act of human kindness...
speaker2: call it a lapse.
speaker1: and how does
speaker2: to ginger baker.
speaker1: i'm partial to drummers. if they played with clapton and winwood.
speaker1: the prescription bottle. when you stole my suitcase.
speaker1: armand baker was my husband, may 13 to october 27, 1982, he played alto sax, i was 17 years old.
speaker1: he named me ginger. he likes drummers, too.
speaker2: and you get sentimental for him.
speaker1: i have i.d. in that name. i use it for various things i don't want traced. when credit unions turn their computers my way.
speaker2: i could listen to you lie all night. she toasts him. gin same here, fella.
speaker2: do you like diamonds?
speaker2: you asked. does the machine. make gold.
speaker2: gold is it's six thousand dollars a pound. worth your weight in gold...?
speaker2: that would put you at seven hundred thousand.
speaker1: would you pay it?
speaker2: when the light hits you just right. i'd pay more.
speaker1: the machine. that we are stealing. makes diamonds?
speaker1: real ones?
speaker2: gem quality. first ever. save japan.
speaker2: a diamond reactor takes graphite, runs it through a combination of lasers, electron beams, and scanning- tunnel mg microscopes.
speaker2: this one uses krypton-fluorine laser, with a new isotope of krypton.
speaker2: the atoms are rearranged. and the molecule of graphite becoznes a molecule of...
speaker1: i hate it. when you make a point.

speaker1: all right, then. all set. 
speaker1: we will keep your passports in our safe until jakarta.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: you are suite 16...
speaker3: ...and never been kissed.
speaker2: we had booked suite 9.
speaker1: 16 is our tokugawa suite, far superior, trust me.
speaker1: you luggage is

speaker1: down there. ten o'clock. 
speaker2: are you dumping fuel?
speaker1: changed my mind. there's nothing on the instruments downrange. the longer she flies before she ditches, the less chance they notice on the bridge.
speaker1: you should lose the oxygen tank at 8000 feet.
speaker2: and how do i judge that? babe's intuition?
speaker2: so i just ask you on the way down? or were you planning to e-mail me.
speaker1: i hate a crybaby.

speaker1: it's over, it's over... 
speaker1: catch your breath, quickly. hang on for the wake.

speaker1: if i were you, i'd watch the desserts. 
speaker2: boy, i'll bet you were in shape before you got old.
speaker1: too long ago to remember.
speaker2: i can take it from here, thanks.
speaker2: if you'd packed my primary chute right, i wouldn't ha...
speaker1: yes, you would. you're a girl.
speaker1: anytime you're ready.
speaker1: better angle.
speaker1: you might want to move aside...
speaker1: may i trouble you for the torch? or would you rather just dance.
speaker2: i know i packed it.
speaker1: coal into diamonds. a wealth machine.
speaker2: how do you know that's it? mac it's 12 by 9 by 7 feet. and it's the only thing worth waterproofing, in case the ship sinks. gin ...you twit.
speaker1: hmmn?
speaker2: i'm just finishing your sentence. can't you answer a question with- out making me feel stupid?
speaker1: why would i bother?
speaker1: let's get one thing straight. i don't work with partners much, because basically, i find most people to be idiots.
speaker1: you, in contrast, are first-rate.
speaker1: and if
speaker1: precise coordinates. you could find a golf ball in the gobi desert.
speaker2: where you g... mac fork lift.
speaker2: that's
speaker2: won't they hear it?
speaker1: over these engines? through five feet of steel?
speaker1: hell, if they do, they don't have the second key to get in.
speaker1: thank for redundant security.
speaker2: you gotta work on that impatient streak. ...and slips them straight in. first try. gin how professional.
speaker2: uh. thing on the left is the brakes? mac or the thing on the right.

speaker1: jump, for sa... 
speaker1: you did activate the floaters.
speaker2: activa...
speaker1: i did say, 'finish up on the
speaker2: um...
speaker2: ...i wouldn't do that.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: well...i saw our suction things. lying...over...there?
speaker2: or maybe. i put 'em there. and points. to where they are.
speaker1: i like a quick study.

speaker1: ...no matter how many stones we make, the diamonds are just an appetizer. gin and the meal...? 
speaker1: my contract. with debeers.
speaker2: oh my g...
speaker1: sensible folks, debeers. a world monopoly in diamonds based on one simple principle...something's only priceless if it's scarce.
speaker1: these guys dig up all the diamonds on the planet, just to keep them
speaker1: imagine the chaos
speaker1: we're sort of bounty hunters.
speaker1: our machine is worth
speaker3: when you missed cocktails.
speaker1: or my name's not banquo macduff.

speaker1: ...well, i 
speaker2: time has come to tell you. what business. i'm actually in.
speaker1: not here.
speaker1: it only looks dangerous...
speaker1: you couldn't fall off. unless someone threw you over.
speaker1: more intimate. for a confession.
speaker1: what business. you are actually. in.
speaker2: yeh. i'm not an art dealer.
speaker1: of course not. you're a cop.
speaker1: an insurance investigator for webber assurance, your boss is an named hector cruz, you've been there four years and ten months, you're quite the rising star. gin nope. his head tilts. just a little farther. mac nope?
speaker2: i'm a thief, mac.
speaker2: for five years, i've used the database of every client webber has to plan my jobs. museums, banks, jewelers, rich people, i have floor plans, alarm codes, passwords, the works.
speaker2: i've made a fortune. it's not enough.
speaker1: why n...
speaker2: why wasn't it enough for you?
speaker2: the vermeer that was stolen from hancock tower? that was my job. i scaled the building with electromagnets, and parachuted down an air vent...
speaker2: ...
speaker2: i need a partner. for the biggest, smartest, job. ever. the one you retire off of, because nothing else could ever compare with the rush.
speaker1: ever. is such a long time.
speaker2: this is a job that can only be done in
speaker2: eight
speaker2: you're not a real trusting guy.
speaker1: and i tried so hard to hide that.
speaker2: it's two jobs. the first steals something priceless from the national palace museum in taipei. we don't keep that. we trade it in for our ticket to the show.
speaker1: one moment in time, you s...
speaker2: midnight, july 1, 1997. eight days from now. the moment that hong kong is annexed by china.
speaker2: 80-20 split.
speaker1: don't be so hard on yourself. it's your plan, you should take at least thirty perc...

speaker1: what are you gonna do with six billion dollars that you can't do with four? 
speaker2: hold the record. alone.
speaker1: your share is 50%. and one dollar.
speaker2: i like what you left. in the hold.
speaker1: you didn't even see wha...
speaker2: a lump of coal. a pair of pliers. a note that said, 'squeeze hard'.
speaker2: squeeze hard.

speaker1: that's madame chiang kaishek, she's my bud. an evil streak a mile wide. 
speaker2: no surprise.
speaker1: i have a lot on my mind.
speaker2: you look beautiful doing it.
speaker1: you wanna buy a vermeer?
speaker2: rather steal it.
speaker1: been there, done that.
speaker1: national palace museum, taipei, taiwan. repository of four thousand years of chinese culture...
speaker1: works of gold, bronze, jade, onyx, pots and scrolls, paintings and porcelains and lacquer work. every treasure the kuomintang could loot before the reds took over. ever rob the place?
speaker2: no. if memory serves.
speaker1: you need to eat something, or are you ready for sex? and just at the edge of it... mac the options seem so limited. they jump through the opening. and vanish.

speaker1: ginny...? 
speaker1: good morning.
speaker1: quite a parting gift. i would have settled for roses.
speaker2: it's a joke. you know, a joke? people who have a sense of humor make them?
speaker2: you're rich, go buy an american, have him fill you in on the culture.
speaker1: ah. american culture. well, that
speaker1: is it easier now? not pretending.
speaker1: not pretending you're an innocent. not pretending you...like me.
speaker1: here's a tip from an old-timer. never forget who you are...
speaker1: it gives you someone to be. when you stop pretending.
speaker2: because the museum displays 10,000 relics at any given moment. but there are 60
speaker2: the train shuttles relics to and from storage. it looks exactly like that. so mac looks down the line. at the train car.
speaker2: i've been down the air ducts four times. the train always has two armed guards. always travels between 32 and 36 miles per hour. relics don't like to be jostled too much. mac your model has five vents.
speaker2: we go down the first. back up the third, if you're lucky. if not, we
speaker1: seems like overkill. for one simple jump.
speaker2: well, it's an eight billion dollar jump. you miss the train...you've missed the train.
speaker2: we've got five days to grab the bones, trade them for the scan, and pull our 8 billion out of hong kong.
speaker1: ...we've missed the train, yeh.
speaker2: oh. have i neglected to fill in the details?
speaker1: an oversight.
speaker2: which i learned from the master. hey. wish me luck...
speaker1: i'm too

speaker1: five years, you won't need make-up. 
speaker2: we agreed. no underwear.
speaker1: overkill. i can do it with legs.
speaker2: i'd lose the underwear.

speaker1: the oracle bones date back to the shang dynasty, 3500 years ago. they are writings...carved into ox bones, tortoise shells... 
speaker1: the oldest chinese writing any- where, the first proof of chinese civilization.
speaker2: what makes
speaker1: there we are.
speaker1: last year, ancient artifacts were discovered in the gulf of mexico. an olmec civilization, 3200 years old.
speaker1: amazingly, markings on these olmec figures were identified as shang dynasty writing...

speaker1: ...no, i don't think that way. 
speaker1: ...and i suppose you do?
speaker2: get lonely? sure, all the time. it's healthy.
speaker2: what's unhealthy. is denial.
speaker1: be real. you could never see yourself...you know, quitting the game. settling...down.
speaker2: why, ginger. this is so sudden.

speaker1: you're in charge of ego and worrying. i'm in charge of keeping you alive. 
speaker1: these are plasma jet. all the force is directed forward, instead of dissipating in a sphere like a grenade.
speaker2: i don't need th... mac shut up.
speaker1: you don't trust me, you won't get through this.
speaker1: try to adjust to that for three more days. after july 1...
speaker1: ...you'll never have to trust again.
speaker1: something. to look forward to.

speaker1: the train louder, closer, the alarm blaring... 
speaker2: they've got an

speaker1: will you please come this way? 
speaker2: i like this.
speaker3: you like wha...
speaker2: not being told what the we're doing.
speaker3: you're on a 'need to know' basis. you'll get each step in time to execute, i thought you agreed to those condit... mac i like your not trusting me. because it frees me to do the same. they come upon the spacious grounds behind the mansion. a
speaker3: i trust you. i only need to...
speaker2: ...remain in control.
speaker2: which is a sign of weakness.
speaker2: i like that, too.
speaker3: colonel
speaker4: you look lovely, ginger. is the rose for me?
speaker3: of course.
speaker3: col. qiu lai chuen, this is andrew macdougal.
speaker3: real names here, darling. the colonel and i have every incentive to keep each other's secrets.
speaker4: like the place, andy?
speaker2: please. mr. macdougal will do.
speaker4: this way. doesn't matter if we spill.
speaker2: my sentiments exactly.
speaker4: this place was a gift. from its former owner. a brit whose business will now happily continue to function. perhaps...even expand. mac planning to spend much time here?
speaker4: tho it has required many sacrifices.
speaker3: the colonel has divorced his wife. to facilitate the necessary entertaining of western women.
speaker4: tho some are more entertaining than others.
speaker2: colonel. you are touching the woman i love...
speaker2: from time to time.
speaker4: you're a scot. would you like some 25-year-old macallan?
speaker2: sure, i'll take a case.
speaker3: the colonel told his minister of culture that he could mount a surgical raid to liberate this treasure from taiwan.
speaker2: ah. how much was the minister told the raid would cost? qiu counting equipment, personnel, bribes, an even fifty million american. all in.
speaker2: which you can now keep.
speaker4: he would have paid twice that. but my needs are modest.
speaker4: unlike. the woman you love. from time to time.
speaker3: how do i look, honey?
speaker2: like a woman. of mystery.

speaker1: in the hong kong and shanghai bank building. is a room with two computers. one for you. 
speaker2: glad i have a function, here.
speaker1: the room is a vault on the 14th floor. access codes to that room are changed daily, computer pass- words on the hour,

speaker1: our trade for the great train robbery. all right, let's say we're in the door. now what? 
speaker2: hong kong has a huge portion of its holdings invested in foreign banks. in hundreds of separate accounts...
speaker2: this cd rom is programmed to send, instantaneously,
speaker2: two or three million at a crack, in odd numbers. total, eight billion. and change.
speaker1: and you've set up a laundry.
speaker2: every wire transfer gets rocketed through a series of multiple switches, austria, uruguay, antigua, the channel islands, the caymans... mac seychelles? gin i left that out.
speaker1: you're forgiven.
speaker2: thank you. as soon as each deposit lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere else, til the
speaker2: sure, the foreign banks know they sent out some money. but they think hong kong knows it, too. and since we're leaving plenty
speaker2: and
speaker2: admit it, so far you're blown away.
speaker1: it does sound like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
speaker1: pity it will be over. in 21 hours.
speaker2: bet you say that. to all the one-night-stands.
speaker1: no, ma'am...
speaker1: only the best of them.

speaker1: nice of the colonel to provide an invitation... 
speaker2: well, i promised him a bonus. five million. comes out of your share.
speaker1: ...long as i don't have to have with him.

speaker1: so all that time, sitting at your computers. all the research, the access codes your job allowed you to steal, floor plans, schematics... setting up all your bank accounts... 
speaker1: years of work, comes down to.... ...six minutes. don't be nervous. easy come, easy go.
speaker1: your share prob'ly works out to, what? dollar and a quarter an hour? me laughs. the door opens. she is off.
speaker2: what's your point? mac that i like you, ginger.
speaker1: the dedication, the skill, the guts...
speaker1: i'm going to see you get everything you deserve.
speaker1: woman. if you can't have fun, right now. you're in the wrong business.

speaker1: uploading. and you've got... two minutes, fifty seconds. 
speaker2: so let's see. across town at the british consulate...
speaker2: ...everyone is working frantically to complete transactions before they go off-line at midnight.
speaker2: ...then, deep in the high-tech bowels of the bank of china building, just across the square...
speaker2: ...the chinese are sitting on their thumbs, waiting to come on-line at midnight.
speaker2: i feel for these boys. let's give them a breather, hmmn?
speaker2: we'll let the brits go off-line 4 seconds early.
speaker2: playing here, ginger. we've created 8 seconds that do not exist, anywhere but in this room.
speaker2: 8 seconds, where no one is on-line but your little cd-rom.
speaker2: and when, eventually, everyone discovers what transaction xj6 was
speaker2: liable to be an ugly international incident.
speaker1: britain off-line in 18 seconds. we're bulletproof.
speaker2: baby girl. nothing. is bulletproof. ever.
speaker2: britain goes bye-bye in 6...

speaker1: gin 
speaker2: feel like a nightcap?
speaker3: the cd won't come out of the driver.
speaker2: relax, don't jam it...

speaker1: don't panic, now, there's no rush... 
speaker2: we can't leave it in there, it's got all our
speaker2: there's a rush.

speaker1: the disc. is still in there. 
speaker2: we can't help it, we...we've gotta...
speaker2: what a guy.
speaker1: was wondering where to leave this... pops it in the drive. slams it shut. mac time to go.

speaker1: they don't know we're the bad guys. 
speaker2: time they find out.
speaker1: okay. how do we get down?
speaker2: down? i never liked down.

speaker1: you can do this. 
speaker2: okay, now what? mac shut up. you're on a 'need-to- know' basis.
speaker2: mac, i'm sorry.
speaker2: turns out, i'm a screw-up.
speaker1: well. something to be said for being self-aware.
speaker1: may i have the last grenade, dear. it's about to rain.
speaker1: you see, banking
speaker1: how refreshing. the night air.
speaker2: i can't do this.
speaker1: you can. if i say so.
speaker1: if you stay. you'll have to pay for the damage... she looks down at the mess below.
speaker1: now that split. did we say
speaker3: and with all his strength, hauls her up onto...

speaker1: got the keys? 
speaker2: i thought you could...hot-wire stuff?
speaker1: they fix those things so you can't steal them...
speaker1: these, they're not so worried.
speaker1: go grab that hook.
speaker1: let me rephrase that.
speaker2: you're not gonna lower me over the side.
speaker1: of course not. now close baby eyes... suit yourself.

speaker1: let go now!! 
speaker1: planning.
speaker1: and luck.
speaker2: i hate you.

speaker1: except it never is, really. quite. over. 
speaker2: well, one hopes not. the bristol, huh? in...paris?
speaker1: you're not going back to mr. cruz, and the nine-to-five?
speaker2: not hardly. i've arranged to be killed in a car crash. on taipei.
speaker1: well. you want to watch those pennies.
speaker2: i could arrange for two. in that crash. his smile back.
speaker1: you know, for a you can be awfully sweet.
speaker2: woman of mystery. what do you say? i like the bristol, just fine.
speaker1: you know, all night i've been wrestling with something...
speaker2: not the most flattering way to put it.
speaker1: i've changed your travel plans.
speaker2: mine.
speaker1: instead of taking the subway to the airport, you change at jordan station for kowloon tong. got that?
speaker1: jordan is only 90 seconds up the line. like a wire transfer, you're gone. vanished. he holds up a silencing finger. listen to me.
speaker1: in this bag are passports, tickets, papers. an amber wig, a good one. a dress you can slip on in five seconds.
speaker1: you're on a tight connection to the trans-siberian express, be in europe in a week.
speaker2: mac, wh...
speaker1: shhh. you always talk too much.
speaker1: time has come to return the favor. one last time.
speaker1: tell you. what business. i'm actually in.
speaker1: see, my profession was cover, too. a notorious thief has access to colleagues, their plans...
speaker1: i've turned in...well, couple hundred. over forty years. scotland yard, interpol, fbi...
speaker1: thought i might retire. after you.
speaker2: and all the...microchips, the diamond machine...
speaker1: well, the chips were returned. the machine was just a box, did you
speaker2: those were
speaker1: well, the state department liked that one. they have more fish to fry with beijing than taiwan.
speaker1: so they're taking credit for letting it go through. tho i'm afraid your colonel may be in for a career disappointment.
speaker2: and the 5 billion.
speaker1: i haven't told them.
speaker1: i said you hadn't revealed the job. that it wouldn't take place until after the changeover.
speaker1: don't look, they're there.
speaker2: and my tickets. in the shopping bag?
speaker1: well. kept my options open. if i give you up, they don't matter, do they?
speaker2: if.
speaker1: had lots of crazy thoughts. one was retirement. with four billion dollars. after all, i know some places where life could be private...
speaker2: but you couldn't do that, huh?
speaker2: otherwise. they wouldn't be here.
speaker1: creature of habit. i suppose.
speaker2: lots. of thoughts, you s...
speaker1: keep smiling. they won't move, until i raise my left arm.
speaker1: i thought. well, i've got the cd. i could contact the banks, reverse all the transactions...
speaker1: ...except maybe. leave you with... oh, a hundred million, say. to tide you over.
speaker1: then, i thought, nah. not my style.
speaker1: i figured. what the hell?
speaker1: let her keep the lot.
speaker1: no rush. the doors won't close for 60 seconds.
speaker1: there's a pistol in the bag. reach in slowly. take it out fast. point it at my temple.
speaker1: you can do it. if i say you can.
speaker1: two people. alone in the universe.
speaker1: step onto the car, keep the pistol trained on my face.
speaker1: seems i was wrong.
speaker1: entrapment. is what robbers. do to cops, huh?
speaker1: twenty seconds. shoot me in the shoulder, it'll slow them down.
speaker2: oughta shoot you in the face.
speaker1: come on, you can do it, if i sa...
speaker2: no way. not anymore.
speaker1: ten seconds, hold on.
speaker2: when do i see you?
speaker2: still staring after the train.
speaker1: airport. changing at mongkok station, we can cut her off.
speaker1: she might lose the wig, be looking brunette
speaker1: i think you're wrong, but cover it. you got maybe four minutes. higher still, the mob below an ant colony... mac no problem. she's trapped.

