speaker1: 2. mr. green andamp; l.a. joan 3. norman - bill andamp; mary 4. barbara jean andamp; barnett 5. haven andamp; bud andamp; pearl 6. sueleen andamp; wade 7. tom andamp; stewardii 8. delbert andamp; triplette 9. glenn 
speaker2: 11. opal andamp; linnea
speaker3: 13. star andamp; albuqureque

speaker1: still photos of twenty-four principal actors. 
speaker2: nashville airport.

speaker1: you want a ride into town? 
speaker2: you bet.
speaker2: got me an audition tonight.
speaker1: well, you just remember, if you can't kick front, kick back, 'cause at least you're kicking... ten minutes, okay?
speaker2: i've just been waiting for the right spot to sing in... i'm so nervous...
speaker2: i'm good, though. there ain't but one sueleen gay -- i don't mean to be conceited, but really it's true. i've been taking special coaching lessons from zeke willard -- he's just wonderful. teaches you how to phrase; that's really important. and breathing. well, you know all about that. anyway, i wrote this song.
speaker2: oh, listen, i really do go on. here's your check. sure has been nice talking to you.

speaker1: sorry. he sees a tape recorder and gets upset. 
speaker1: he's my father.
speaker2: haven hamilton is your father? can you arrange an interview?

speaker1: excuse me, sir. i'm here putting together a film. i would like to ask some questions. 
speaker2: foreigner?
speaker1: i'm from bbc television.
speaker2: where the is that?
speaker2: linnea.
speaker3: how you doing, haven?
speaker2: oh, fine. couldn't be better.

speaker1: you ladies got room for a spare? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: l.a. joan is left in the dust.
speaker4: 'bye... nice talking to you.
speaker5: joan?
speaker4: did you see who that was?
speaker5: glad to see you. ester'll be glad, too.
speaker4: he is just wonderful.
speaker5: i'1l get your bag.

speaker1: am i late? 
speaker2: late! oh,

speaker1: delbert, how are you? 
speaker2: i'm fine. this here is john triplette. triplette, like you to meet the honorary mayor, haven hamilton.
speaker1: good to meet you. bud, have them move the horses.
speaker3: pleasure
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: still inside the plane posing for pictures and signing autographs. she's got a new album cut again. she'll be down in a minute. but she'll be late for the opera if she doesn't hurry. bud, get the plane on the walkie-talkie.
speaker4: they don't seem to be answering. the ambulance boys are here, though. barnett always expects them to get there like a shot. that thing only goes a hundred fall bore with the sirens going.
speaker1: thank you, bud.

speaker1: bud, tell them to move the horses. promised this strip would be and span. 
speaker2: listen, we'll go get the car and come back. this'l1 be going on for a while.
speaker1: you bet. she's probably talking to somebody about their sick child. you know how she is.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi, norman.
speaker1: sure is nice to see you all again. i never thought i'd see you again after the last time.
speaker2: oh, norman, you worry too much.
speaker3: norman, how are you?
speaker1: fine. just fine.
speaker1: sure have missed you all, though. oh, where's tom? isn't he with you?
speaker2: don't worry about old tom.
speaker4: have you thought about your future and what america needs to examine...

speaker1: how long was she out? 
speaker2: not too long. but she keeps passing out.
speaker3: just give your manna that vitamin e. makes a world of difference.
speaker4: here she is again.
speaker1: okay, let's get her to the wagon.

speaker1: eater's been asking for you. 
speaker2: uh huh.
speaker1: she's been in the hospital two weeks yesterday.
speaker2: you know anything about the stations here?
speaker1: it's hard to say. doctors thought she'd come home a week ago. all it was was appendix.
speaker2: all they got is advertisements. just like l.a.
speaker1: did an exploratory and according to them, she needed an overhaul.
speaker2: well, i could use one, especially if i'm pregnant.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: i said, maybe i'll change my name again.
speaker1: i see... well, those doctors are real miracle workers.
speaker2: but not unless nashville really inspires me.
speaker1: maybe you can look after me a little.
speaker2: that tom sure is cute.

speaker1: we had these two city boys come in last week. one or them said his ford truck had cut off his foot. the other one said that wasn't true. then the first said he looked just like eddie black when he said that... 
speaker2: bud, would you be sure to get the oil changed?
speaker3: ya... where do you want me to take it?
speaker1: do you remember eddie black? he had those blue eyes.
speaker2: where you always take it. there's nothing special about this time.
speaker1: and they started pounding on each other. but the one without the foot was strongest.
speaker2: bud, you're going to have to show up at the hospital tar me i gotta get back to that session.
speaker3: okay. anything you want me to say?
speaker2: say i had to get back to the session. ~ -- all school did for you, you can put in a thimble.
speaker1: the cops came through and broke it up. i finally just had to call chet and say, 'chet, get over here. there are two old bays here breaking up the furniture...'

speaker1: is that what you're going to sing? 
speaker2: no -- that's exercises. my coach says you have to do exercise because the vocal chords are muscle and need to be stretched. every time you stretch them, the middle part sets stronger. that's the place where i sing.
speaker1: you think i got any kind of a voice?
speaker2: you sure do it loud.
speaker1: is that good?
speaker2: it's not bad.
speaker1: you think i should take lessons?
speaker2: if you're serious. being serious is real important.
speaker1: you serious?
speaker2: wade -- i've been working toward this audition for years.
speaker1: well, honey, i sure hope it comes your way then.
speaker2: you think it will?
speaker1: sure thing.

speaker1: i just knew that was you when you got on. 
speaker2: you did, huh?
speaker1: ya - i even recognized them.
speaker3: how long have you been together?
speaker2: too long.
speaker4: is your rather really an actor?
speaker2: all his life.
speaker4: really?
speaker2: me, too.
speaker2: you having any fun?
speaker2: that's the most important thing -- to have -- fun
speaker3: how long are you going to be here?
speaker2: long enough to have fun.

speaker1: what do you think of him? 
speaker2: hal? well, hal and i have been friends for a long time.
speaker1: you go to school together?
speaker2: no, we never did that
speaker1: oh --
speaker2: we're connected by a relative. one time, one of his aunts married one of my uncles. that was a long time ago, though. how'd you come to work for him?
speaker1: well, i really think he's got a chance.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: oh yea -- there has never been a better time for something new.
speaker2: he ain't really new.
speaker1: he is to a lot of people.
speaker2: he was a good judge, but that was a long time ago.
speaker1: you know, i'll bet you he makes it with a majority.
speaker2: where are you from?
speaker1: southern california.
speaker2: you always live there?
speaker1: spent time in arizona. why?
speaker2: well, i admire your optimism, and i just wondered if it was regional. you ever see any movie stars?
speaker1: i know a couple.
speaker2: no kidding -- wait till i tell linnea. who?
speaker1: ah... peter finch.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: peter finch -- he's english.
speaker2: i never heard of him. name somebody else.
speaker1: ryan o'neal.
speaker2: you really do? ~ -- how come you know them?
speaker1: oh, you meet them at parties and stuff.
speaker2: i'll be boy, if you could get ryan to say something about hal phillip walker, wouldn't that be something?
speaker1: well -- maybe. let's see what happens here.
speaker2: i'll be dammed.

speaker1: have your children been deaf since birth? 
speaker2: yes -- yes, they have. it was a real shock at first, especially since my daddy's a preacher, but delbert and i have been blessed by their being here.
speaker1: when did you start singing?
speaker2: when i was little, in church.
speaker1: isn't it unusual for you to be working with a black choir?
speaker2: yes, it is --
speaker1: well, can you tell me why?
speaker2: it just is.
speaker1: how long have you been with them?
speaker2: about three years.
speaker1: and before?
speaker2: just my church and my boys. we all had to go to school and learn hand talking. i just thank the lord they can see.
speaker1: do you ever do any writing?
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: are you a close friend of haven's?
speaker2: no, mostly his wife's. she's in paris, france, right now. my husband delbert is real friendly with him. delbert's in law. does work for him.
speaker1: do you like him?
speaker2: he's a member of our congregation.

speaker1: you got the money? 
speaker2: right here.
speaker1: well, don't lose it. last time i gave you twenty-five dollars, you lost it.
speaker2: well, that just happened that time.
speaker1: well, it better not happen again.
speaker1: you lost twenty-five dollars once before that, too, near christmas time -- i remember that real well now. december 9th, to be exact.
speaker2: you got a real good memory, star.
speaker1: i remember when i just saw you. skinny winnifred. you were skinny.
speaker2: what do you have to buy?
speaker1: feed, mostly. thought we'd get something for the kids.
speaker2: okay by me - i'd sure like to see that opryland.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: grand old opera --
speaker1: i hate that music.
speaker2: i know that, star.

speaker1: mary sits erect. 
speaker2: oh, my
speaker3: norman, just sit there and don't puke.

speaker1: hey, mind if i walk with ya? 
speaker1: you a musician?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do you have people in nashville?
speaker2: no -- just coming to nashville, that's all.

speaker1: have you seen a woman about so high? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: she had on high heels?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: need a ride?

speaker1: barbara, i'd like to talk to you and barnett alone. 
speaker2: anything you say.
speaker2: doctor says you'll have to go on out now
speaker3: excuse me, barnett, how's she doing?
speaker3: i'm sorry. i feel as if i know you. i'm john triplette... a friend of del reese... i was at the airport. i just wanted to introduce myself. i'm a great fan of hers. if there's anything you need, just give me a call. i'm at the sheraton south.
speaker2: she's going to rest now.
speaker3: okay, i just wanted to see if i could help out at all.
speaker2: i appreciate your concern, but she has to rest, so you can go on home.
speaker3: oh, sure.
speaker2: what do you really want?
speaker3: not a thing, barnett, really. i need a little information. but, ah, it can wait.
speaker2: you bet.
speaker3: okay. thanks.
speaker1: well, it's exhaustion, pure and simple, and you're going to have to take a rest or you're going to be in big trouble.
speaker2: she has to be at the opera tomorrow night and then she can go home.
speaker1: she's not going anywhere, barnett. this is precisely what i'm talking about. she is collapsing. she cannot go on without a rest or she will have to stop altogether for a long time.
speaker4: well, i have to go: it's too late to be replaced, and, besides, i just can't do that. those people get disappointed. they've come in from all over, you know, and this miss foxy who's been writing to me for years is going to be there from michigan.
speaker1: you cannot leave this bed until i say so. the two of you have to understand that. barnett, you've got to stop this dovetailing and give her some rest. you don't need to make that much more money.
speaker2: it's not the money. the friends and neighbors love her and they want to see her. we got a debt to the public.
speaker1: well, they are not going to see her tomorrow night, and i suggest you get on the phone and make the necessary arrangements.

speaker1: we just got a gold record. 
speaker2: do they have a show to give it to you?
speaker1: no hell, some secretary in new york just hands it to you. only this one kept dropping it out of the box.
speaker2: did it break?
speaker1: dent it a little. boy -- just she couldn1t even find it. she had a hamburger on her desk that looked three weeks old.
speaker2: how long have you been together?
speaker1: probably a little too long.
speaker2: do you study at all?
speaker1: depends on what i'm studying.

speaker1: when do you need her? 
speaker2: monday night.
speaker1: you want her to sing, too?
speaker3: i can do benefits
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: twenty dollars for her and ten for you.
speaker4: well, do you want a blonde?
speaker2: how does she look?
speaker1: you know... blonde.
speaker2: okay, i'll get you your money.
speaker5: the manager carefully looks at sueleem.
speaker1: i can only give you fifty a week here and ten bucks for the benefit.
speaker3: money's no object.
speaker1: you go here monday night and be there at eight sharp and look flashy you know what i mean? she nods yes and takes the paper.
speaker1: are you sure you know what you're doing?
speaker3: hundreds of times.
speaker1: well, there's a couple of girls in printers alley if you got any questions. i know i've seen that g- string stuff for sale someplace around.
speaker3: don't you worry about sueleen gay.
speaker1: that's for sure. at the airport - that's where it was. at the airport, there in one of those gift shops... anyway, you better take a break.
speaker3: thanks. you are just a wonderful person.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: linnea?
speaker1: yes. who's this?
speaker2: i'm here.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: tom. you remember?
speaker1: i'm not sure. where?
speaker2: remember, about a month ago, your church choir cut a record?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well, i met you that afternoon in the control room and we...
speaker1: oh, tom, of course. what are you doing in nashville?
speaker3: cutting a record.
speaker2: i'd really like to see you.
speaker1: or course. you should come over to the house. the boys would love to meet you.
speaker2: that's not quite what i had in mind.
speaker1: well...how have you been?
speaker2: well, they removed my heart last week, but i'm doing fine except my nose fell off. looks a little funny.
speaker2: look, i find you attractive and i want to see you, so i'll call you when i get to my place.

speaker1: hey, what are you doing? 
speaker2: just fixing this strap here
speaker1: i know what you're doing. i've done it too long not to know. but if you're going to hunt down food, get enough so you won't have to do it again right away. peanut butter's good. man can last a long time on peanut butter.

speaker1: let's go -- 
speaker2: i don't think norman's done yet.
speaker1: we've heard enough. come on.
speaker3: hell, you're whiter than that old boy up there.
speaker3: where the are you going, oreo cookie?

speaker1: hey, there - you seen my winifred? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you got a place to stay?
speaker2: no. probably stay at a motel tonight.
speaker1: you in music?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: get in.

speaker1: i hope he's still here. i don't know where he lives. 
speaker2: you should have stayed. ester's been wanting to see you.

speaker1: come on back to bed. 
speaker2: yeah, you bet. you're really terrific. you know what i mean?
speaker1: come on.
speaker2: just a minute.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: hiya. listen, is linnea there?
speaker4: hello.
speaker2: hi.
speaker2: listen, 1'm sorry i didn't call a little sooner. i sorta got tied up. listen...
speaker4: who is thin?
speaker2: who is this? it's tom.
speaker4: i don't know who you are.
speaker2: what do you mean? you said you wanted to see me.
speaker2: what the is going on?
speaker3: what is this?
speaker2: i would like to talk to...
speaker3: you call again and i'm calling the police.

speaker1: yes, air. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: can i help you?
speaker2: yes, sir. i need a room
speaker1: i think we can do that. come in.
speaker3: kenny follows green down the hall.
speaker1: green's the name.
speaker2: kenneth fraser. glad to meet you...
speaker1: my wire's been in the hospital so things might be a little dusty, but the sheets are clean and the bath's down the hall. you're in music, i guess, aren't you? 'cause my niece sings most of the day. that won't bother you, will it?
speaker1: i didn't think it would. she's calling herself l.a. joan this- week. last week it was dakota. guess if you have to change your name a state's as good as anything.
speaker2: she sure sings nice.
speaker1: my wife and i think so, but we're family. your family's always good or bad depending on how you look at your family. what do you do, pick or sing?
speaker2: oh... a little of both. just thought i'd look around at nashville for a while.
speaker1: when you run out or money, 'cause you will here, you can go sing at bishop's pub. they let you pass the hat. all these kids do that. most every place doesn't want to bother with you.
speaker2: i'm not really a musician.
speaker1: well, don't be shy. i got the address here. anytime you need it. room's twenty-five dollar! a week and you can have breakfast with me if you like.
speaker2: suits me.
speaker2: listen, do you know anything about cars?
speaker1: a little. what do you need?
speaker1: get ready. we're going to the hospital.
speaker1: we're going.

speaker1: you'll have to stand closer to the mike. 
speaker1: you've only got time for one more take, unless you've got another twenty-five dollar!.
speaker2: oh, don't you worry. you sure done your best. it'll be fine. i just know it.
speaker1: okay, you're on.
speaker2: hi... this here is albuquerque speaking. you don't know me yet but ya will after i sing you this song that i've wrote called... we hear the intro and she begins.
speaker1: okay, come in the booth. you'll have to wait for the disc.

speaker1: hi. look at those flowers. did you grow those. 
speaker2: ester and me did; my niece picked then. she's just here from california.
speaker1: that's good, i've never seen anything so healthy.
speaker1: you sit there for a moment and let me see if she's sleeping.
speaker2: excuse me. are you in music?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: well, neither am i. but my niece is.

speaker1: barnett enters with a basket of fruit. 
speaker2: wake up. you'll sleep the day away.
speaker2: i called connie and she said not to worry, she'll fill in for you.
speaker3: i see. she gets out of bed and goes to the bathroom.

speaker1: sorry i'm late. 
speaker2: you're not.
speaker1: where's bill?
speaker2: sleeping.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: out.

speaker1: he got killed at a turkey shoot. 
speaker2: your brother?
speaker1: yes. i was in my sophomore year at harvard.
speaker2: harvard?
speaker1: business school so i can run haven's business.
speaker2: what is a turkey shoot.
speaker1: you go out in the woods and shoot targets -- whoever shoots the most wins a live turkey
speaker2: how in the world did he get shot?
speaker1: some guy was drunk and hit him. accident. haven almost killed him.
speaker3: sorry to bother you, bud.
speaker1: yes, sir. like you to meet opal.
speaker3: need to have you check these out before he goes on that walker benefit.
speaker1: sure thing. put them here... i'll take them.
speaker3: thanks... i'll... go say hello to your mom.
speaker1: she's in paris.
speaker3: oh... well... have you heard from barnett?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker3: let me know when you do, all right?
speaker1: you bet.
speaker3: i'll just be in here.
speaker2: do you know barbara jean?
speaker1: sure do. good friend of haven's.
speaker2: haven's not going to talk to me.
speaker1: sure he will.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: i'm opal.
speaker2: oh yes, i'm john triplette.
speaker1: i'm gathering information about the characteristics of music people. i just finished a documentary on gandi.
speaker1: the architect his buildings are drippy. you know, like sand and castles. then i got this assignment. they want to start in two weeks.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what? oh. a film.
speaker3: where'd you get the cake?
speaker2: someone gave it... here, you want this... i'll...
speaker4: no.
speaker4: a little worried. fine, though.
speaker5: ladies and gentlemen, haven hamilton.

speaker1: sister connie... connie. hi, i saw you out there. i just think you're so beautiful. what do you think? i can't find my pass. i'm here cutting a record, you know, and these policemen here... 
speaker2: i'm so glad you come for a little while, and thank you.
speaker1: i could just sit where i was. i wasn't bothering anybody. that guy asking everybody questions made more noise than i ever did. you saw me there. you signed this program.
speaker3: miss connie, you're next.
speaker2: oh, honey, i gotta go. thanks for coming. you read what i wrote you now.
speaker1: i did. you said, 'your friend, connie.'

speaker1: would you turn that off he continues to listen until the end. 
speaker1: barnett, please -
speaker2: what's wrong honey.
speaker1: i don't want to listen to her sing

speaker1: don't feel that way, honey. 
speaker2: then why are you listening to her -
speaker1: well, i have to go thank her for filling in and it's nice to know the tune she sang.
speaker2: you have to what?
speaker1: go to the king of the road and thank her.
speaker2: well here, why don't you take her some of these flowers while you're at it.
speaker2: maybe you'd like to work out something with her, too... split us up... her on the road and me in town or in the hospital -- barnett!
speaker1: what the is wrong with you? huh?
speaker1: wait a minute. you're not going nutsey on me, are you? huh...? you're not going to have one of those nervous breakdowns or anything, are you?
speaker2: a... no... no, i'm just... i'm really fine... i just. don't want you to think i'm giving up or anything like that...
speaker1: i'll just take these on over to her. show her your appreciation.
speaker2: sure... you go on and do that.
speaker2: barnett?
speaker1: i'll tell her thank you, for you.
speaker2: barnett?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: bye, bye.
speaker1: bye. bye.

speaker1: i just get so afraid sometimes. then i get more afraid. : just want you to hold me. mr. green can't bear what she's saying. he hesitates for a minute and then figures what the hell. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker2: am i disturbing you?
speaker1: i'm really all right, barnett. don't you worry really... i just don't want you to leave me that's all.
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: oh, honey, i didn't mean to scare you.
speaker1: how did you come in here?
speaker2: well, my wife, ester's down the hall. i saw barnett leaving and i was just talking to ester about your being here. she loves you so much, i just had to come down and say hello. we've been following you since you were a girl. well, i just scared you to death. i didn't mean to do that.
speaker1: well, i guess you caught me at a weak moment.
speaker2: you'll have to speak up.
speaker1: i said, i've been real tired.
speaker2: eater says she doesn't see how you do it.
speaker1: what's wrong with her.
speaker2: oh just about everything, i guess. those doctors started on an overhaul and don't want to quit. they keep taking things out. she's going to come home an egg shell. tough, though.. she's tough.
speaker1: what did you say your name was?
speaker2: green.
speaker3: well, mr. green.
speaker2: hi, sherry.
speaker3: how'd you get in here.
speaker1: it's fine. we were just talking about vitamin s.
speaker2: i'll go on. ester'1l be very glad.
speaker1: you remember what i said about the vitamins.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: linnea?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you sound different. is that really you?
speaker1: it's me. what is it?
speaker2: can you make a rehearsal in the morning...? courtland wants to...
speaker1: what time?
speaker2: eight-thirty in the chapel.
speaker1: i'll be there.

speaker1: maybe she's at the opera. 
speaker2: why the would she be there?

speaker1:  
speaker2: stop it!
speaker1: tom!
speaker3: no, ah, bill?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i'm with abc-tv. like to come up and talk to you for a minute if i could.
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: hi. i'm john triplette. 
speaker2: hi. come on in. mary!
speaker1: hello. john triplette.
speaker3: hello.
speaker1: glad to meet you.
speaker2: you want anything? a drink?
speaker1: oh, no, listen, i don't want to take up too much of your time.
speaker2: don't you worry. we're just having a quiet sunday at home.
speaker1: well, i'm here putting together a show. it's a benefit really.
speaker2: whose?
speaker1: hal phillip walker.
speaker3: oh, no.
speaker1: he's pretty well known down here.
speaker2: he's pretty well known all over.
speaker1: i was wondering if you'd like to be in it. it's going to be televised and...
speaker2: what's he running for?
speaker1: president.
speaker3: president?
speaker2: when is it?
speaker1: wednesday at the park. we've got a lot of names coming in...
speaker3: for him?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: well, we can't. we're registered democrats.
speaker2: national television?

speaker1: how much? 
speaker2: minimum.
speaker3: we can't support him we're registered democrats.
speaker1: it's an appearance. it has nothing to do with support. i don't even like him.
speaker3: bill, he's a crazy man.
speaker2: well, he- expressed a particular wish to have you on.
speaker3: what for?
speaker2: you're real favorites of his.
speaker3: you're kidding.
speaker1: how come?
speaker2: first you have to understand how much he admires you. mary and bill get caught up in the sincerity.
speaker2: you sing for people and that's what he's about. he wants to help people. especially now, you know.
speaker1: where'd he ever see us?

speaker1: d.c.? tammany hall? he came there? 
speaker2: sure thing.
speaker3: what national tv...?
speaker2: you're doing some recording here, aren't you?
speaker3: an album.
speaker2: might be good for you.
speaker1: we'll sing.
speaker2: you don't know how pleased he'll be.
speaker3: what!
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: come on in. 
speaker1: how's your stomach?
speaker2: pretty good. sure was surprised to hear from you. you talk to bill?
speaker1: not yet. listen, norman, i want...
speaker2: they're looking all over for you. do you have a copy of the album.
speaker2: you know bill is really mad at you.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: i mean...
speaker1: mary?
speaker2: you know, i've got my own act now. i'm going on tour.
speaker1: good...
speaker3: the phone rings but no one answers.

speaker1: mom? 
speaker2: i've been so worried, dear. where are you?
speaker1: nashville.
speaker2: oh... well.
speaker1: the car broke down.
speaker2: oh, well, i knew that before you- even left. i told you, 'kenny, that old nash won't make it down the road.' but you had to go.
speaker1: well, i got to nashville. that's pretty far.
speaker2: next you'll be sick.
speaker1: i feel really good.
speaker2: how are you going to pay when you get sick?
speaker1: i'm in a rooming house with mr. green.
speaker2: green? not owen green. owen green embezzled money from your grandfather
speaker1: i don't know his first name.
speaker2: bet the sheets are grey.
speaker1: no. no, they're white. he's got a nice dog.
speaker2: worst time at year for dogs is when they get fungus.
speaker1: fungus?
speaker2: he doesn1t have fungus, does he?
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: well, you'll get it, skin as sensitive as yours.
speaker1: how do you know if they do? he looks suspiciously at the dog in his room.
speaker2: weather's been awful. all those bombs dropping. it changes our weather. sure not like the good old days.
speaker1: does their hair fall out?
speaker2: your hair fell out? just like your father. weak hair.
speaker1: listen. maybe i should go...
speaker2: i've been a little dyspeptic.
speaker1: i want to get the dog off my bed.
speaker2: but, i'll take some of that nyquil... you know it puts you right to sleep no matter what's wrong, you go right off...
speaker1: okay. i'll be talking to you.
speaker2: keep warm, dear. let me hear from you.
speaker1: bye.
speaker2: bye.

speaker1: i have to try to get my car running. 
speaker2: i'll go with you.
speaker1: well, okay...

speaker1: this your first time? 
speaker1: you're from out of town?
speaker2: yes. i'm cutting a record.
speaker1: we have a bible study meeting tonight if you'd like to come.
speaker2: is there food?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: well, i just wondered 'cause being from out or town i wouldn't be able to make anything.
speaker1: no, those are socials you're thinking of... saturday's usually.
speaker3: this is your first time, isn't it?
speaker2: yes sir. i'm from tallahassee.
speaker3: i see.
speaker2: and i want you to know i round today, right here.
speaker3: bless you. i hope we see you again, then.
speaker4: now in the cemetery roy already has his stone, it's a fiddle... right as you drive in you can see it in front there.
speaker5: oh?
speaker4: lot of them do. fans start chipping at them, though.... johnny cash has a $100,000 fence around his house. well, the fans are stealing the rocks right out of it. haven hamilton has a $700,000 fence. it has spikes.

speaker1: that house over there is where i live. the one with the red truck. my aunt drives the school bus. 600 kids a day. 
speaker1: some black folks wanted to paint this car once. i didn't let them. they also wanted me to kiss the bride. i declined.

speaker1: in the city of nashville, there are a total of hundred and twenty millionaires some of them inhabit these beautiful home sites to make nashville known as the athens of the south. here on the right you see the home of haven hamilton's mother. he built it for her after his daddy passed away three years ago of lung cancer. haven contributes time and money to the cancer foundation, now. you can see some of his records handing there in the living room. 
speaker1: look, now you can see it.
speaker1: he got that one in 1962. song called 'smokey heart.'

speaker1: opal opens the door and gets in. 
speaker2: you weren't really going to drive off?
speaker2: my name's opal. what's yours?
speaker2: you going to nashville?
speaker2: good. i came out here to meet some underground singer. they say she only writes in those trees over there.
speaker2: she never came. i'm trying to gather some information about the characteristics of music people for english television. i started in san francisco. some friends were making an anti-war film about 'nam, you know, and i just love marine movies. it is really the consummate art form, all those parts of the puzzle to make the whole. all that energy being collective, you know what i mean?
speaker2: i've been all over the united states now except for maine and vermont.
speaker2: what did you say your name was?
speaker3: star.
speaker2: star - oh! that's a fantastic name. almost as good as opal. i changed my name in taos. this man that was really into low budget movies said my eyes were opalistic.
speaker2: i'm going to make the consummate documentary as soon as i finish gathering information. you know it's so nice not to feel oppressed in a society that is male oriented.
speaker3: are you in music?
speaker2: no, i told you that.
speaker2: just living and then after that making the total documentary that will encompass everything.

speaker1: what the hell? 
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: replacement party.
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: a guy named walker. amazing person. he's developed a huge following.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: well i've been following him around just listening to him --he says he can really win -- i bet he can too -

speaker1: you must really like him. 
speaker2: well, he's really amazing.
speaker1: i haven't gotten into politics yet. i'm still into music --except for you. you're into politics.

speaker1: wrecks. 
speaker2: ah, hello. my name is kenneth fraser... and i'm here from terre haute, indiana. ah, listen ... somebody stole my handles.
speaker1: we don't mess with accessories.
speaker2: oh, well, thanks. ah, oh, maybe you know where...

speaker1: parts. 
speaker2: do you carry door handles?
speaker1: what kind?
speaker2: nash.
speaker1: what year?
speaker2: sixty-three.
speaker3: excuse me. i have an emergency phone call for 228-5128 from the nashville baptist hospital.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: sure. ill take it. i'll call back on the handles.
speaker2: hey, when do they come on?
speaker3: you have to hang up.
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: he does and the phone rings. hello?
speaker4: i'm sorry to break in, but is mr. green there?
speaker2: no, but i can give him a message.
speaker4: i see... well, his wife just died.
speaker2: oh my
speaker4: we're very sorry. thanks.
speaker2: i thought you were at the hospital with your uncle!
speaker2: listen, your aunt ester just died. i'm... sorry... listen, i really feel bad now about last night...we had no...
speaker5: i'm in a hurry, gonna see this great group record at woodland.
speaker2: i mean, mr. green was so nice to me. he took me in and...
speaker5: i don't really know what you're talking about.
speaker2: i've got to get a hold of mr. green.

speaker1: hope you don't mind me coming. i just love your music. 
speaker2: norman, bill and mary enter the studio.

speaker1: howdy. 
speaker2: where the have you been?
speaker1: you guys been having any fun?
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: to the bathroom.
speaker2: hat!

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: you look terrific.
speaker3: hey!
speaker2: it's the den mother.
speaker3: come on, dammit. they want to check levels.

speaker1: the doctor is out of town. 
speaker2: i know that and don't you worry, i'm going to get her right into bed.
speaker1: she must rest.
speaker2: i have this release form signed by the floor doctor.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: barnett, john triplette. how's she doing?
speaker2: she's fine.
speaker3: well, i just thought i'd call.
speaker2: well, you did and she's fine. thanks.
speaker1: well, i don't know.
speaker2: i have a nurse waiting for her in the bus.
speaker4: who brought these?
speaker1: i don't remember seeing those.
speaker2: somebody brought them. come on, honey, let's go.
speaker4: well, thank you all so much. you tell the other ladies thank you.
speaker1: well all right.
speaker5: how is she?
speaker2: a little slow, but she'll be fine.
speaker5: have you talked to triplette?
speaker2: who the is he?
speaker5: he's lining up talent for hal phillip walker.
speaker2: who the is he?
speaker5: he's going to run for president.
speaker2: third party?
speaker5: he has that sign with the tree.
speaker2: what does he want?
speaker5: barbara jean.
speaker2: what!
speaker5: that's what he wants.
speaker2: you know better than that.
speaker5: it's on national television, barnett.
speaker2: i don't care. she's always been neutral in politics and that's not going to change.

speaker1: well, how about the shopping center? 
speaker2: yes. she's pretty rested up.
speaker1: okay, then we'll see you there.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: okay, come on, honey. how are you feeling? 146 int. hospital reception room - day
speaker3: you going today?
speaker4: thank you-- yes, i am.
speaker3: i'll tell ester, she'll be thrilled i saw you again.
speaker4: you get her those vitamin e right away.
speaker3: i got them right here.
speaker4: well, bye, bye now. we have to go.
speaker3: bye, bye.

speaker1: where have you got her hidden today? 
speaker2: mr. green?
speaker1: yes, ma'am. how are you today?
speaker2: didn't you get?... how are you?
speaker1: i'm fine. can i go up?
speaker2: let me see if i can get the doctor hold on one second.
speaker1: you want me to wait?
speaker2: no. mr. green, i don't know how to tell you this -- your wire passed away -- i thought they'd called you at home.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your wire ester - she passed away.
speaker2: if you'll wait just a minute i'll get everything from the business office.

speaker1: i really learned all about her from my momma -- she's been saving this scrap book about her since she got to be famous. 
speaker1: the one thing she said to me when i joined was when you're doing your travels you be sure you see barbara jean. you don't have to say anything about me but you be sure you see her. so that's what i've been doing. now i'm going to hitch a ride so i can see her in memphis.
speaker1: you give my test to your wife1
speaker2: mr. green, the doctor is on his way and the business office has your bill ready.

speaker1: wow! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: who is this, right? i called you last night.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: i've got a gig tonight.
speaker2: oh?
speaker1: end of church street. next to a grocery store.
speaker2: doesn't it have a name?
speaker1: i can't remember. in out/out in, something like that. around eight.
speaker3: again she is left with a dead receiver.

speaker1: hi, i'm sueleen gay. 
speaker2: i'm john triplette. excuse me. i got all caught up in looking at you. you'll be fine.
speaker1: oh, why thank you.
speaker2: may i see your costume?
speaker1: you like it? listen, where is the pianist? i need to go over this with him.
speaker1: you all didn't say what you wanted to hear.
speaker1: someday i'm gonna be a star like barbara jean.

speaker1: sueleen, you're prettier and probably sing better. besides, she is unusually sick. and tonight you have the opportunity to work in front of some grateful gentlemen. 
speaker1: have you ever done this before?
speaker1: well, it's not too hard. you'll sing whatever it is you want to sing. they'll applaud like crazy 'cause i can tell them that you're really something and then the piano and drum will give you a little fanfare and you can sing and take off your clothes or not sing. it really doesn't make much difference, really. but since you've never done this before, singing might help.
speaker1: now this is to raise funds for someone who can help people who are less fortunate than yourself. the more you take off, you see, more money we can raise.
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: i know that you are an artist and i am sure you are very religious.
speaker1: well, this is for people who have a kind of religious belief in the way they live.

speaker1: she blows kisses then runs to triplette. 
speaker2: don't you think they'd just love another song instead?
speaker3: now, sueleen, you know that's not what we talked about right here in this very room.
speaker4: we're ready to striiippppp... for cash, gentlemen. the time has come to dig deep. our little sueleen in going to dig deep for you.

speaker1: here we are, sueleen. 
speaker1: sueleen... sueleen gay.
speaker2: oh, no.
speaker1: wait a minute! i want to look at you. c'mon.
speaker2: oh, please, oh, he pushes her against one or the storefronts.
speaker1: c'mon! i just wanna look...

speaker1: oh. 
speaker2: it'll be okay... it'll be okay... i know it'll be fine...

speaker1: i was in prison for twenty-eight years. 
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: premeditated murder.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: just got out. had me thirteen lawyers. missed the electric chair twice. .. been out three months. are you heavy?
speaker2: i'm not sure...
speaker1: i'm forty-six. do you like to go up or down?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: high? do you ever get high? a walk on the wild side. ever do dust?
speaker1: all i need is fifteen minutes a night.
speaker2: fifteen minutes?
speaker1: sleep. that's all i need. don't want to waste no time sleeping. you married?
speaker2: what...? 0h, yes.
speaker1: not me. ain't never loved anybody. ain't never been married. won't either.
speaker3: tom stands at the mike.
speaker4: good evening. thanks. i used to be part of a group. you remember?

speaker1: you bet your sweet ass. 
speaker2: she in lost in the sound of his voice.
speaker3: you know who that is?
speaker4: yea.
speaker3: i see.

speaker1: wade starts in again. 
speaker2: love, that's a word that's been overused. i'll say i sure like you. maybe... linnea is wiping her eyes with a hanky.
speaker3: listen, we're suppose to sing on tv day after tomorrow. at the park...
speaker4: national?
speaker3: yes. percy warner park'.
speaker5: where are you staying?
speaker4: is that for that walker guy?
speaker3: yes, but we're just singing.
speaker5: sue was trying to get hold of you.
speaker4: come on. he's a crook.
speaker3: what crook?
speaker2: i'm a roman catholic. you're baptist, i bet. catholic means universal, everything, know what i mean?
speaker2: i'm a scholar of the bible as well and we're all going to answer to have you read the book of revelations?
speaker2: you ever read the 'apocalypse unsealed?'
speaker4: i'm not coming anywhere near that place. he's a rotten guy.
speaker5: that's not true.
speaker4: he's a politician.
speaker3: he saw us at tammany hall.
speaker4: the he did. look, i'll see you in the morning.
speaker5: really?
speaker4: you bet. nine, right? but count me out of that other thing.

speaker1: my mother. died in '72. they told me after. they said they couldn't find me before, so they told us after. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they said go see the chaplain.
speaker2: i'm sorry but i have to go.
speaker1: i'm a hundred years old and when i'm two hundred, i'll die.

speaker1: well, for heaven's sake. you're just about everywhere, aren't you? 
speaker2: i came out to see how you all were doing.
speaker1: i think i should tell you i know why you're here. the answer is no ... we don't get involved in politics.
speaker3: well, that's not entirely true, barnett. at least not according to haven.
speaker1: haven? hell,' we've been playing poker together since we were fourteen.
speaker3: i guess that's why he thought you right want to help out.
speaker1: he knows better.
speaker3: well, it's probably because it would help him.
speaker1: how is that?
speaker3: everybody likes to be as good as their word.
speaker1: whose word?
speaker3: his word.
speaker1: his word? are you telling me haven promised you something?
speaker3: that's pretty close. he's going to be on the bill. why not put barbara jean on with him?
speaker4: she holds the mike and looks at barnett.
speaker5: barnett..

speaker1: get her feet up. 
speaker1: okay, honey.

speaker1: oh, barnett, i'm so sorry. 
speaker2: honey, it's okay... how do you feel now?
speaker1: all those people...
speaker2: don't worry, i'll take care or it
speaker1: you're so good.

speaker1: we could invite them to the park. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they can come to the concert in the park.
speaker2: i said 'no!'
speaker2: we're very sorry... please... if you'll listen. you can see her tomorrow at percy warner park...
speaker2: triplette, i want to talk to you.
speaker2: i got trapped and you know it, so let's have some rules.
speaker1: absolutely. listen, barnett, i understand your position.
speaker2: no, you don't, so don't say you do. bunch of liars. what do you get out or this?
speaker1: nothing; barnett. it's my job.
speaker2: your job, huh.
speaker2: she will not appear on the stage or support that walker guy and you can't have any of his signs up while she sings. she'll be on first and out of the park before he shows up. there will be no pictures, no questions, no answers or tying her name up with his now or in the future to come. any money she makes will go to the president of the united states.
speaker2: we'll see you tomorrow. i'll send her three songs over this afternoon. she'll be done about ten minutes after she starts and walker better not show up till she's through. now, get out of here.
speaker3: barnett?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: well, barnett, i have this terrific song i've been working on. it would be a natural for barbara jean. like you to take a look at it.
speaker2: i'm very busy right now. get me haven.
speaker3: it'll just take a minute. here, i'll even hold it for you.
speaker2: i don't know where you got this, but something tells me you stole it and i hate thieves.
speaker2: aren't you an engineer...? i know you -- don't you work at one of those cut a record places...? twenty-five bucks a shot, isn't it? usually their last twenty-five...

speaker1: thank you, mr. berguan. and now we bring you, 'albuquerque.' 
speaker2: albuquerque walks to the mike.
speaker3: hello, everybody. my name is albuquerque.
speaker3: i'm going to sing a wonderful tune.

speaker1: we'd 1ike~to announce the winner of tonight's contest. albuquerque, how about some applause for a darling little lady 
speaker2: oh, i'm not through.
speaker1: that's all, folks.
speaker1: here is the twenty dollars first prize money and a seat in the grandstands and now let's turn the show over to al allen in the race stand.

speaker1: winifred. 
speaker2: hi! star.
speaker1: winifred, the kids want you home and so do i.
speaker2: i won first prize.
speaker1: come on.

speaker1: you're really terrific, you know what i mean --linnea rolls over and faces him. 
speaker2: i have to go.
speaker1: wrong.
speaker2: i have to go. he sighs.
speaker1: i know.
speaker1: stay.
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: car pool?
speaker1: when did you think it would happen?
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker1: i knew when i first met you.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker2: older.
speaker1: thirty?
speaker2: well...
speaker1: i'm twenty-eight
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: older than thirty?
speaker1: terrific! who was that black guy? a friend of yours?
speaker2: that's unkind.
speaker1: come on, you ever been attracted to a black guy?

speaker1: just a minute. 
speaker1: i'll talk to you tomorrow.
speaker2: that's what you said before.
speaker1: i know. goodbye.
speaker1: maybe you better keep that.

speaker1: sure... you're a fine boy, ken, you really are. 
speaker2: okay... you get to sleep. i'll see you in the morning. good night.
speaker1: good night,

speaker1: listen, could you give her this for me? 
speaker2: sure thing.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: they screwed up. you go on after the choir. 
speaker2: the applause builds.
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen, miss barbara jean...

speaker1: she is leaning on a stool. 
speaker2: i want to thank you for all your good wishes. you are so important to barnett and me. now i want to sing a special song for all our soldier boys.

speaker1: barnett! my barnett i'm shot! 
speaker2: she's... oh, my there's blood here... ladies and gentlemen, i don't know what to say.
speaker3: there is a voice among the noise that shouts:

