speaker1: a way out west there was a fella, fella i want to tell you about, fella by the name of jeff lebowski. at least, that was the handle his lovin' parents gave him, but he never had much use for it himself. this lebowski, he called himself the dude. now, dude, that's a name no one would self-apply where i come from. but then, there was a lot about the dude that didn't make a whole lot of sense to me. and a lot about where he lived, like- wise. but then again, maybe that's why i found the place s'durned innarestin'. 
speaker1: they call los angeles the city of angels. i didn't find it to be that exactly, but i'll allow as there are some nice folks there. 'course, i can't say i seen london, and i never been to france, and i ain't never seen no queen in her undies as the fella says. but i'll tell you what, after seeing los angeles and thisahere story i'm about to unfold-- wal, i guess i seen somethin' ever' bit as stupefyin' as ya'd see in any a those other places, and in english too, so i can die with a smile on my face without feelin' like the good lord gypped me.

speaker1: now this story i'm about to unfold took place back in the early nineties-- just about the time of our conflict with sad'm and the eye-rackies. i only mention it 'cause some- times there's a man--i won't say a hee-ro, 'cause what's a hee-ro?--but sometimes there's a man. 
speaker1: and i'm talkin' about the dude here-- sometimes there's a man who, wal, he's the man for his time'n place, he fits right in there--and that's the dude, in los angeles.

speaker1: this aggression will not stand. . . this will not stand! 
speaker2: ...and even if he's a lazy man, and the dude was certainly that--quite possibly the laziest in los angeles county.
speaker2: ...which would place him high in the runnin' for laziest worldwide--but sometimes there's a man. . . sometimes there's a man.

speaker1: wal, i lost m'train of thought here. but--aw hell, i done innerduced him enough. 
speaker2: it's the lebaron.

speaker1: the dude enters and flicks on a light. 
speaker2: we want that money, lebowski. bunny said you were good for it.
speaker2: where's the money, lebowski!
speaker2: where's the money, lebowski!

speaker1: it's uh, it's down there somewhere. lemme take another look. 
speaker2: don't with us. if your wife owes money to jackie treehorn, that means you owe money to jackie treehorn.
speaker3: ever thus to deadbeats, lebowski. he starts peeing on the rug.
speaker1: oh, man. don't do--
speaker4: you see what happens? you see what happens, lebowski?
speaker1: look, nobody calls me lebowski. you got the wrong guy. i'm the dude, man.
speaker4: your name is lebowski. your wife is bunny.
speaker1: bunny? look, moron.
speaker1: you see a wedding ring? does this place look like i'm married? all my plants are dead!
speaker4: the is this?
speaker1: obviously you're not a golfer.
speaker4: woo?
speaker5: yeah?
speaker4: wasn't this guy supposed to be a millionaire?
speaker5: uh?
speaker5: 
speaker4: what do you think?
speaker5: he looks like a loser.
speaker1: hey. at least i'm housebroken.
speaker5: waste of time.
speaker4: thanks a lot,

speaker1: scattered by a strike. 
speaker2: hot damn, i'm throwin' rocks tonight. mark it, dude.
speaker3: this was a valued rug.
speaker3: this was, uh--
speaker4: yeah man, it really tied the room together--
speaker3: this was a valued, uh.
speaker5: what tied the room together, dude?
speaker3: were you listening to the story, donny?
speaker5: what--
speaker3: were you listening to the dude's story?
speaker5: i was bowling--
speaker3: so you have no frame of reference, donny. you're like a child who wanders in in the middle of a movie and wants to know--
speaker4: what's your point, walter?
speaker3: there's no reason--here's my point, dude--there's no reason--
speaker5: yeah walter, what's your point?
speaker3: huh?
speaker4: what's the point of--we all know who was at fault, so what the are you talking about?
speaker3: huh? no! what the are you talking--i'm not--we're talking about unchecked aggression here--
speaker5: what the is he talking about?
speaker4: my rug.
speaker3: forget it, donny. you're out of your element.
speaker4: this chinaman who peed on my rug, i can't go give him a bill so what the are you talking about?
speaker3: what the are you talking about?! this chinaman is not the issue! i'm talking about drawing a line in the sand, dude. across this line you do not, uh--and also, dude, chinaman is not the preferred, uh. . . asian- american. please.
speaker4: walter, this is not a guy who built the rail- roads, here, this is a guy who peed on my--
speaker3: what the are you--
speaker4: walter, he peed on my rug--
speaker5: he peed on the dude's rug--
speaker3: you're out of your element! this chinaman is not the issue, dude.
speaker4: so who--
speaker3: jeff lebowski. come on. this other jeffrey lebowski. the millionaire. he's gonna be easier to find anyway than these two, uh. these two . . . and he has the wealth, uh, the resources obviously, and there is no reason, no reason, why his wife should go out and owe money and they pee on your rug. am i wrong?
speaker4: no, but--
speaker3: am i wrong!
speaker4: yeah, but--
speaker3: okay. that, uh. he elaborately clears his throat.
speaker4: a.
speaker5: and this guy peed on it.
speaker3: donny! please!
speaker4: yeah, i could find this lebowski guy--
speaker5: his name is lebowski? that's your name, dude!
speaker4: yeah, this is the guy, this guy should compensate me for the rug. i mean his wife goes out and owes money and they pee on my rug.
speaker3: thaaat's right dude; they pee on your rug.

speaker1: and this is the study. you can see the various commendations, honorary degrees, et cetera. 
speaker2: yes, uh, very impressive.
speaker1: please, feel free to inspect them.
speaker2: i'm not really, uh.
speaker1: please! please!
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: that's the key to the city of pasadena, which mr. lebowski was given two years ago in recognition of his various civic, uh.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: that's a los angeles chamber of commerce business achiever award, which is given--not necessarily given every year! given only when there's a worthy, somebody especially--
speaker2: hey, is this him with nancy?
speaker1: that is indeed mr. lebowski with the first lady, yes, taken when--
speaker2: lebowski on the right?
speaker1: of course, mr. lebowski on the right, mrs. reagan on the left, taken when--
speaker2: he's handicapped, huh?
speaker1: mr. lebowski is disabled, yes. and this picture was taken when mrs. reagan was first lady of the nation, yes, yes? not of california.
speaker2: far out.
speaker1: and in fact he met privately with the president, though unfortunately there wasn't time for a photo opportunity.
speaker2: nancy's pretty good.
speaker1: wonderful woman. we were very--
speaker2: are these.
speaker1: these are mr. lebowski's children, so to speak--
speaker2: different mothers, huh?
speaker1: no, they--
speaker2: i guess he's pretty, uh, racially pretty cool--
speaker1: they're not his, heh-heh, they're not literally his children; they're the little lebowski urban achievers, inner-city children of promise but without the--
speaker2: i see.
speaker1: --without the means for higher education, so mr. lebowski has committed to sending all of them to college.
speaker2: jeez. think he's got room for one more?
speaker1: one--oh! heh-heh. you never went to college?
speaker2: well, yeah i did, but i spent most of my time occupying various, um, administration buildings--
speaker1: heh-heh--
speaker2: --smoking thai-stick, breaking into the rotc--
speaker1: yes, heh--
speaker2: --and bowling. i'll tell you the
speaker3: okay sir, you're a lebowski, i'm a lebowski, that's terrific, i'm very busy so what can i do for you?
speaker2: well sir, it's this rug i have, really tied the room together-
speaker3: you told brandt on the phone, he told me. so where do i fit in?
speaker2: well they were looking for you, these two guys, they were trying to--
speaker3: i'll say it again, all right? you told brandt. he told me. i know what happened. yes? yes?
speaker2: so you know they were trying to on your rug--
speaker3: did i urinate on your rug?
speaker2: you mean, did you personally come and pee on my--
speaker3: hello! do you speak english? parla usted inglese? i'll say it again. did i urinate on your rug?
speaker2: well no, like i said, woo peed on the rug--
speaker3: hello! hello! so every time--i just want to understand this, sir-- every time a rug is micturated upon in this fair city, i have to compensate the--
speaker2: come on, man, i'm not trying to scam anybody here, i'm just--
speaker3: you're just looking for a handout like every other--are you employed, mr. lebowski?
speaker2: look, let me explain something. i'm not mr. lebowski; you're mr. lebowski. i'm the dude. so that's what you call me. that, or duder. his dudeness. or el duderino, if, you know, you're not into the whole brevity thing--
speaker3: are you employed, sir?
speaker2: employed?
speaker3: you don't go out and make a living dressed like that in the middle of a weekday.
speaker2: is this a--what day is this?
speaker3: but i do work, so if you don't mind--
speaker2: no, look. i do mind. the dude minds. this will not stand, ya know, this will not stand, man. i mean, if your wife owes--
speaker3: my wife is not the issue here. i hope that my wife will someday learn to live on her allowance, which is ample, but if she doesn't, sir, that will be her problem, not mine, just as your rug is your problem, just as every bum's lot in life is his own responsibility regardless of whom he chooses to blame. i didn't blame anyone for the loss of my legs, some chinaman in korea took them from me but i went out and achieved anyway. i can't solve your problems, sir, only you can.
speaker2: ah it.
speaker3: sure! it! that's your answer! tattoo it on your forehead! your answer to everything!
speaker3: your "revolution" is over, mr. lebowski! condolences! the bums lost!
speaker3: ...my advice is, do what your parents did! get a job, sir! the bums will always lose-- do you hear me, lebowski? the bums will always--
speaker4: --in a high coffered hallway. brandt is approaching.
speaker5: how was your meeting, mr. lebowski?
speaker2: okay. the old man told me to take any rug in the house.

speaker1: manolo will load it into your car for you, uh, dude. 
speaker2: it's the lebaron.

speaker1: well, enjoy, and perhaps we'll see you again some time, dude. 
speaker2: yeah sure, if i'm ever in the neighborhood, need to use the john.

speaker1: blow on them. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: g'ahead. blow.
speaker2: you want me to blow on your toes?
speaker1: uh-huh. . . i can't blow that far.
speaker2: you sure he won't mind?
speaker1: dieter doesn't care about anything. he's a nihilist.
speaker2: practicing?
speaker1: you're not blowing. brandt nervously takes the dude by the elbow.
speaker3: our guest has to be getting along, mrs. lebowski.
speaker2: you're bunny?
speaker4: i'll your for a thousand dollars.
speaker3: ha-ha-ha-ha! wonderful woman. very free-spirited. we're all very fond of her.
speaker4: brandt can't watch though. or he has to pay a hundred.
speaker3: ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! that's marvelous.

speaker1: i'm just gonna find a cash machine. 
speaker2: scattered by a strike.
speaker3: donny calls out from the bench:
speaker4: grasshopper dude--they're dead in the water!!
speaker1: your maples, carl.
speaker5: way to go, dude. if you will it, it is no dream.
speaker1: you're twenty minutes late. what the is that?
speaker5: theodore herzel.
speaker1: huh?
speaker5: state of israel. if you will it, dude, it is no--
speaker1: what the fuck're you talking about? the carrier. what's in the carrier?
speaker5: huh? oh--cynthia's pomeranian. can't leave him home alone or he eats the furniture.
speaker1: what the are you--
speaker5: i'm saying, cynthia's pomeranian. i'm looking after it while cynthia and marty ackerman are in hawaii.
speaker1: you brought a pomeranian bowling?
speaker5: what do you mean "brought it bowling"? i didn't rent it shoes. i'm not buying it a beer. he's not gonna take your turn, dude.
speaker1: hey, man, if my ex-wife asked me to take care of her dog while she and her boyfriend went to honolulu, i'd tell her to go herself. why can't she board it?
speaker5: first of all, dude, you don't have an ex, secondly, it's a show dog with papers. you can't board it. it gets upset, its hair falls out.
speaker1: hey man--
speaker5: dog has papers, dude.--over the line!
speaker5: smokey huh?
speaker5: over the line, smokey! i'm sorry. that's a foul.
speaker6: eight, dude.
speaker5: excuse me! mark it zero. next frame.
speaker6: walter!
speaker5: this is not nam. this is bowling. there are rules.
speaker1: come on walter, it's just--it's smokey. so his toe slipped over a little, it's just a game.
speaker5: this is a league game. this determines who enters the next round- robin, am i wrong?
speaker6: yeah, but--
speaker5: am i wrong!?
speaker6: yeah, but i wasn't over. gimme the marker, dude, i'm marking it an eight.
speaker5: smokey my friend, you're entering a world of pain.
speaker1: hey walter--
speaker5: mark that frame an eight, you're entering a world of pain.
speaker6: i'm not--
speaker5: a world of pain.
speaker6: look dude, i don't hold with this. this guy is your partner, you should--

speaker1: all right! there it is! it's zero! 
speaker1: you happy, you crazy
speaker2: this is a league game, smokey!

speaker1: walter, you can't do that. these guys're like me, they're pacificists. smokey was a conscientious objector. 
speaker2: you know dude, i myself dabbled with pacifism at one point. not in nam, of course--
speaker1: and you know smokey has emotional problems!
speaker2: you mean--beyond pacifism?
speaker1: he's fragile, man! he's very fragile!
speaker2: huh. i did not know that. well, it's water under the bridge. and we do enter the next round-robin, am i wrong?
speaker1: no, you're not wrong--
speaker2: am i wrong!
speaker1: you're not wrong, walter, you're just an
speaker2: okay then. we play quintana and o'brien next week. they'll be pushovers.
speaker1: just, just take it easy, walter.
speaker2: that's your answer to everything, dude. and let me point out--pacifism is not--look at our current situation with that camelfucker in iraq-- pacifism is not something to hide behind.
speaker1: well, just take 't easy, man.
speaker2: i'm perfectly calm, dude.
speaker1: yeah? wavin' a gun around?!
speaker2: calmer than you are.
speaker1: just take it easy, man!
speaker2: calmer than you are.

speaker1: dude, this is smokey. look, i don't wanna be a hard-on about this, and i know it wasn't your fault, but i just thought it was fair to tell you that gene and i will be submitting this to the league and asking them to set aside the round. or maybe forfeit it to us-- 
speaker2: 
speaker1: --so, like i say, just thought, you know, fair warning. tell walter.
speaker3: mr. lebowski, this is brandt at, uh, well--at mr. lebowski's office. please call us as soon as is convenient.
speaker3: mr. lebowski, this is fred dynarski with the southern cal bowling league. i just got a, an informal report, uh, that a uh, a member of your team, uh, walter sobchak, drew a loaded weapon during league play-- we hear the doorbell.

speaker1: hiya allan. 
speaker2: dude, i finally got the venue i wanted. i'm performing my dance quintet--you know, my cycle--at crane jackson's fountain street theatre on tuesday night, and i'd love it if you came and gave me notes.
speaker1: sure allan, i'll be there.
speaker2: dude, uh, tomorrow is already the tenth.
speaker1: yeah, yeah i know. okay.
speaker2: just, uh, just slip the rent under my door.
speaker1: yeah, okay.
speaker3: the voice continues on the machine.
speaker4: --serious infraction, and examine your standing. thank you. beep.
speaker4: mr. lebowski, brandt again. please do call us when you get in and i'll send the limo. let me assure you--i hope you're not avoiding this call because of the rug, which, i assure you, is not a problem. we need your help and, uh--well we would very much like to see you. thank you. it's brandt.

speaker1: we've had some terrible news. mr. lebowski is in seclusion in the west wing. 
speaker2: huh.

speaker1: mr. lebowski. 
speaker2: it's funny. i can look back on a life of achievement, on challenges met, competitors bested, obstacles overcome. i've accomplished more than most men, and without the use of my legs. what. . . what makes a man, mr. lebowski?
speaker3: dude.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: i don't know, sir.
speaker2: is it. . . is it, being prepared to do the right thing? whatever the price? isn't that what makes a man?
speaker3: sure. that and a pair of testicles.
speaker2: you're joking. but perhaps you're right.
speaker3: mind if i smoke a jay?
speaker2: bunny.
speaker3: 'scuse me?
speaker2: bunny lebowski. . . she is the light of my life. are you surprised at my tears, sir?
speaker3: a.
speaker2: strong men also cry. . . strong men also cry.
speaker2: i received this fax this morning.
speaker2: as you can see, it is a ransom note. sent by cowards. men who are unable to achieve on a level field of play. men who will not sign their names. weaklings. bums.

speaker1: bummer. 
speaker2: brandt will fill you in on the details.

speaker1: mr. lebowski is prepared to make a generous offer to you to act as courier once we get instructions for the money. 
speaker2: why me, man?
speaker1: he suspects that the culprits might be the very people who, uh, soiled your rug, and you're in a unique position to confirm or, uh, disconfirm that suspicion.
speaker2: so he thinks it's the carpet-pissers, huh?
speaker1: well dude, we just don't know.
speaker3: crash--scattered by a strike, in slow motion.

speaker1: yeah, but he's a pervert, dude. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: the man is a offender. with a record. spent six months in chino for exposing himself to an eight- year-old.

speaker1: huh. 
speaker2: when he moved down to venice he had to go door-to-door to tell everyone he's a pederast.
speaker3: what's a pederast, walter?
speaker2: shut the up, donny.
speaker4: scattered by a strike.

speaker1: they have been joined by donny. 
speaker2: anyway. how much they offer you?
speaker3: twenty grand. and of course i still keep the rug.
speaker2: just for making the hand-off?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker3: ...they gave dude a beeper, so whenever these guys call--
speaker2: what if it's during a game?
speaker3: i told him if it was during league play-- donny has been watching quintana.
speaker4: if what's during league play?
speaker2: life does not stop and start at your convenience, you miserable piece of
speaker4: what's wrong with walter, dude?
speaker3: i figure it's easy money, it's all pretty harmless. i mean she probably kidnapped herself.
speaker2: huh?
speaker4: what do you mean, dude?
speaker3: rug-peers did not do this. i mean look at it. young trophy wife. marries a guy for money but figures he isn't giving her enough. she owes money all over town--
speaker2: that...fucking...bitch!
speaker3: it's all a fake. like lenin said, look for the person who will benefit. and you will, uh, you know, you'll, uh, you know what i'm trying to say--
speaker4: i am the walrus.
speaker2: that
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: i am the walrus.
speaker2: shut the up, donny! v.i. lenin! vladimir ilyich ulyanov!
speaker4: what the is he talking about?
speaker2: that's exactly what happened, dude! that makes me sick!
speaker3: yeah, well, what do you care, walter?
speaker4: yeah dude, why is walter so off?
speaker2: those rich fucks! this whole thing-- i did not watch my buddies die face down in the muck so that this strumpet--
speaker3: i don't see any connection to vietnam, walter.
speaker2: well, there isn't a literal connection, dude.
speaker3: walter, face it, there isn't any connection. it's your roll.
speaker2: have it your way. the point is--
speaker3: it's your roll--
speaker2: the point is--
speaker3: it's your roll.
speaker5: are you ready to be fucked, man? they both look up.
speaker6: i see you rolled your way into the semis. deos mio, man. seamus and me, we're gonna you up.
speaker3: yeah well, that's just, ya know, like, your opinion, man.
speaker6: let me tell you something, bendeco. you pull any your crazy with us, you flash a piece out on the lanes, i'll take it away from you and stick it up your and pull the trigger til it goes "click".
speaker3: 
speaker6: you said it, man. nobody with the
speaker2: eight-year-olds, dude.

speaker1: they called about eighty minutes ago. they want you to take the money and drive north on the 4 5. they'll call you on the portable phone with instructions in about forty minutes. one person only or i'd go with you. they were very clear on that: one person only. what happened to your jaw? 
speaker2: oh, nothin', you know.
speaker1: here's the money, and the phone. please, dude, follow whatever instructions they give.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: her life is in your hands.
speaker2: oh, man, don't say that..
speaker1: mr. lebowski asked me to repeat that: her life is in your hands.
speaker2: 
speaker1: her life is in your hands, dude. and report back to us as soon as it's done.

speaker1: take the ringer. i'll drive. the dude takes the briefcase and slides over. 
speaker2: the what?
speaker1: the ringer! the ringer, dude! have they called yet?
speaker2: what the is this?
speaker1: my dirty undies. laundry, dude. the whites.
speaker2: agh-- he closes the briefcase.
speaker2: walter, i'm sure there's a reason you brought your dirty undies--
speaker1: thaaaat's right, dude. the weight. the ringer can't look empty.
speaker2: walter--what the are you thinking?
speaker1: well you're right, dude, i got to thinking. i got to thinking why should we settle for a measly twenty grand--
speaker2: we? what the we? you said you just wanted to come along--
speaker1: my point, dude, is why should we settle for twenty grand when we can keep the entire million. am i wrong?
speaker2: yes you're wrong. this isn't a game, walter--
speaker1: it is a game. you said so yourself, dude--she kidnapped herself--
speaker3: yeah, but-- the phone chirps. dude grabs it.
speaker2: dude here.
speaker4: who is this?
speaker2: dude the bagman. where do you want us to go?
speaker4: ...us?

speaker1: shut the up. hello? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: okay, listen-- walter looks over at the dude and bellows:
speaker3: dude, are you this up?
speaker1: who is that?
speaker2: the driver man, i told you-- click. dial tone.
speaker2: oh walter.
speaker3: what the is going on there?
speaker2: they hung up, walter! you it up! you it up! her life was in our hands!
speaker3: easy, dude.
speaker2: we're screwed now! we don't get and they're gonna kill her! we're fucked, walter!
speaker3: dude, nothing is come on. you're being very undude. they'll call back. look, she kidnapped her-- the phone chirps.
speaker3: ya see? nothing is up here, dude. nothing is these guys are amateurs--
speaker2: shutup, walter! don't say peep when i'm doing business here.
speaker3: okay dude. have it your way.
speaker3: but they're amateurs.
speaker2: dude here.
speaker1: okay, vee proceed. but only if there is no funny stuff.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: so no funny stuff. okay?
speaker2: hey, just tell me where the you want us to go.

speaker1: that was the sign. 
speaker2: yeah. so as long as we get her back, nobody's in a position to complain. and we keep the baksheesh.
speaker1: terrific, walter. but you haven't told me how we get her back. where is she?
speaker2: that's the simple part, dude. when we make the handoff, i grab the guy and beat it out of him.
speaker2: ...huh?
speaker1: yeah. that's a great plan, walter. that's ingenious, if i understand it correctly. that's a swiss watch.
speaker2: thaaat's right, dude. the beauty of this is its simplicity. if the plan gets too complex something always goes wrong. if there's one thing i learned in nam-- the phone chirps.
speaker1: dude.
speaker3: you are approaching a vooden britch. when you cross it you srow ze bag from ze left vindow of ze moving kar. do not slow down. vee vatch you.

speaker1: what'd he say? where's the hand- off? 
speaker2: there is no hand-off, walter! at a wooden bridge we throw the money out of the car!
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: we throw the money out of the moving car!
speaker1: we can't do that, dude. that up our plan.
speaker2: well call them up and explain it to 'em, walter! your plan is so simple, i'm sure they'd understand it! that's the beauty of it walter!
speaker1: wooden bridge, huh?
speaker2: i'm throwing the money, walter! we're not around!
speaker1: the bridge is coming up! gimme the ringer, dude! chop-chop!
speaker2: that! i love you, walter, but sooner or later you're gonna have to face the fact that you're a moron.
speaker1: okay, dude. no time to argue. here's the bridge--
speaker2: walter!
speaker1: your wheel, dude! i'm rolling out!
speaker2: what the
speaker1: your wheel! at fifteen em-pee-aitch i roll out! i double back, grab one of 'em and beat it out of him! the uzi!
speaker2: uzi?
speaker1: you didn't think i was rolling out of here naked!
speaker2: walter, please--
speaker1: fifteen! this is it, dude! let's take that hill!

speaker1: ahh it, let's go bowling. 
speaker2: a ball rumbles in to scatter ten pins.

speaker1: aitz chaim he, dude. as the ex used to say. 
speaker2: what the is that supposed to mean? what the fuck're we gonna tell lebowski?
speaker1: huh? oh, him, yeah. well i don't see, um-- what exactly is the problem?
speaker2: huh? the problem is--what do you mean what's the--there's no--we didn't-- they're gonna kill that poor woman--
speaker1: what the fuck're you talking about? that poor woman--that poor slut-- kidnapped herself, dude. you said so yourself--
speaker2: no, walter! i said i thought she kidnapped herself! you're the one who's so certain--
speaker1: that's right, dude, 1 % certain-- donny is trotting excitedly up.
speaker3: they posted the next round of the tournament--
speaker1: donny, shut the f--when do we play?
speaker3: this saturday. quintana and--
speaker1: saturday! well they'll have to reschedule.
speaker2: walter, what'm i gonna tell lebowski?
speaker1: i told that down at the league office-- who's in charge of scheduling?
speaker2: walter--
speaker3: burkhalter.
speaker1: i told that kraut a thousand times i don't roll on shabbas.
speaker3: it's already posted.

speaker1: who gives a walter? what about that poor woman? what do we tell-- 
speaker2: c'mon dude, eventually she'll get sick of her little game and, you know, wander back--
speaker3: how come you don't roll on saturday, walter?
speaker2: i'm shomer shabbas.
speaker3: what's that, walter?
speaker1: yeah, and in the meantime what do i tell lebowski?
speaker2: saturday is shabbas. jewish day of rest. means i don't work, i don't drive a car, i don't ride in a car, i don't handle money, i don't turn on the oven, and i sure as don't roll!
speaker3: sheesh.
speaker1: walter, how--
speaker2: shomer shabbas.
speaker1: that's it. i'm out of here.
speaker2: for christ's sake, dude.
speaker3: oh yeah, how'd it go?
speaker2: went alright. dude's car got a little dinged up--
speaker1: but walter, we didn't make the hand- off! they didn't get, the money and they're gonna-- they're gonna--
speaker2: yeah yeah, "kill that poor woman."
speaker2: kill that poor woman.
speaker3: walter, if you can't ride in a car, how d'you get around on shammas--
speaker2: really, dude, you surprise me. they're not gonna kill they're not gonna do what can they do? amateurs. and meanwhile, look at the bottom line. who's sitting on a million dollars? am i wrong?
speaker1: walter--
speaker2: who's got a million dollars parked in the trunk of our car out here?
speaker1: "our" car, walter?
speaker2: and what do they got, dude? my dirty undies. my whites--say, where is the car?
speaker3: who has your undies, walter?
speaker2: where's your car, dude?
speaker1: you don't know, walter? you seem to know the answer to everything else!
speaker2: hmm. well, we were in a handicapped spot. it, uh, it was probably towed.
speaker1: it's been stolen, walter! you know it's been stolen!
speaker2: well, certainly that's a possibility, dude--
speaker1: aw, it.
speaker3: where you going, dude?
speaker1: i'm going home, donny.
speaker3: your phone's ringing, dude.
speaker1: thank you, donny.

speaker1: 1972 pontiac lebaron. 
speaker2: color?
speaker1: green. some brown, or, uh, rust, coloration.
speaker2: and was there anything of value in the car?

speaker1: huh? oh. yeah. tape deck. couple of creedence tapes. and there was a, uh. . . my briefcase. 
speaker2: in the briefcase?
speaker1: papers. just papers. you know, my papers. business papers.
speaker2: and what do you do, sir?
speaker1: i'm unemployed.
speaker3: ...most people, we're working nights, they offer us coffee.
speaker1: ...me, i don't drink coffee. but it's nice when they offer.

speaker1: ...also, my rug was stolen. 
speaker2: your rug was in the car.
speaker1: no. here.
speaker2: separate incidents? the dude stares at the floor.
speaker3: snap out of it, son.
speaker1: you find them much? stolen cars?
speaker2: sometimes. i wouldn't hold out much hope for the tape deck though. or the creedence tapes.
speaker1: and the, uh, the briefcase?
speaker4: mr. lebowski, i'd like to see you. call when you get home and i'll send a car for you. my name is maude lebowski. i'm the woman who took the rug.
speaker3: well, i guess we can close the file on that one.

speaker1: i'll be with you in a minute, mr. lebowski. she rumbles by in another pass. 
speaker2: is that what that's a picture of?
speaker3: in a sense, yes. elfranco, my robe. my art has been commended as being strongly vaginal. which bothers some men. the word itself makes some men uncomfortable. vagina.
speaker2: oh yeah?
speaker3: yes, they don't like hearing it and find it difficult to say. whereas without batting an eye a man will refer to his "dick" or his "rod" or his "johnson".
speaker2: "johnson"?
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: yes, i know about it. and i know that you acted as courier. and let me tell you something: the whole thing stinks to high heaven.
speaker2: right, but let me explain something about that rug--
speaker3: do you like sex, mr. lebowski?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker3: sex. the physical act of love. coitus. do you like it?
speaker2: i was talking about my rug.
speaker3: you're not interested in sex?
speaker2: you mean coitus?
speaker3: i like it too. it's a male myth about feminists that we hate sex. it can be a natural, zesty enterprise. but unfortunately there are some people--it is called satyriasis in men, in women--who engage in it compulsively and without joy.
speaker2: oh, no.
speaker3: yes mr. lebowski, these unfortunate souls cannot love in the true sense of the word. our mutual acquaintance bunny is one of these.
speaker2: listen, maude, i'm sorry if your stepmother is a nympho, but i don't see what it has to do with--do you have any kalhua?
speaker3: take a look at this, sir.

speaker1: hello. nein dizbatcher says zere iss problem mit deine kable. 
speaker2: i know that guy. he's a nihilist.
speaker3: and you recognize her, of course.
speaker1: za, okay, i bring mein toolz.
speaker3: the story is ludicrous.
speaker1: mein nommen iss karl. is hard to verk in zese clozes-- maude switches off the set.
speaker3: lord. you can imagine where it goes from here.
speaker2: he fixes the cable?
speaker3: don't be fatuous, jeffrey. little matter to me that this woman chose to pursue a career
speaker2: yeah, the achievers.
speaker3: little lebowski urban achievers, yes, and proud we are of all of them. i asked my father about his withdrawal of a million dollars from the foundation account and he told me about this "abduction", but i tell you it is preposterous. this compulsive
speaker2: yeah, but my-
speaker3: i'm getting to your rug. my father and i don't get along; he doesn't approve of my lifestyle and, needless to say, i don't approve of his. still, i hardly wish to make my father's embezzlement a police matter, so i'm proposing that you try to recover the money from the people you delivered it to.
speaker2: well--sure, i could do that--
speaker3: if you successfully do so, i will compensate you to the tune of 1% of the recovered sum.
speaker2: a hundred.
speaker3: thousand, yes, bones or clams or whatever you call them.
speaker2: yeah, but what about--
speaker3: --your rug, yes, well with that money you can buy any number of rugs that don't have sentimental value for me. and i am sorry about that crack on the jaw.
speaker2: oh that's okay, i hardly even--
speaker3: here's the name and number of a doctor who will look at it for you. you will receive no bill. he's a good man, and thorough.
speaker2: that's really thoughtful but i--
speaker3: please see him, jeffrey. he's a good man, and thorough.

speaker1: a, man. i got a rash. a, man. i gotta tell ya tony. 
speaker2: aw, forget about it.
speaker1: yeah, man! it! i can't be worrying about that life goes on!
speaker2: home sweet home, mr. l. who's your friend in the volkswagon?
speaker1: huh?

speaker1: he scowls. 
speaker2: when did he-
speaker3: into the limo, you no arguments.
speaker2: man! there's a beverage here!

speaker1: start talking and talk fast you lousy bum! 
speaker2: we've been frantically trying to reach you, dude.
speaker1: where's my money, you bum?!
speaker3: well we--i don't--
speaker1: they did not receive the money, you nitwit! they did not receive the money. her life was in your

speaker1: this is our concern, dude. 
speaker2: no, man, nothing is here--

speaker1: i--the royal we, you know, the editorial--i dropped off the money, exactly as per--look, i've got certain information, certain things have come to light, and uh, has it ever occurred to you, man, that given the nature of all this new that, uh, instead of running around blaming me, that this whole thing might just be, not, you know, not just such a simple, but uh--you know? 
speaker2: what in holy name are you blathering about?
speaker1: i'll tell you what i'm blathering about! i got information--new has come to light and--shit, man! she kidnapped herself!
speaker1: well sure, look at it! young trophy wife, i mean, in the parlance of our times, owes money all over town, including to known pornographers-- and that's cool, that's cool-- but i'm saying, she needs money, and of course they're gonna say they didn't get it 'cause she wants more, man, she's gotta feed the monkey, i mean-- hasn't that ever occurred to you...? sir?
speaker2: no. no mr. lebowski, that had not occurred to me.
speaker3: that had not occurred to us, dude.
speaker1: well, okay, you're not privy to all the new so uh, you know, but that's what you pay me for. speaking of which, would it be possible for me to get my twenty grand in cash? i gotta check this with my accountant of course, but my concern is that, you know, it could bump me into a higher tax--
speaker2: brandt, give him the envelope.
speaker1: well, okay, if you've already made out the check. brandt is handing him a letter-sized envelope which is distended by something inside.
speaker3: we received it this morning.
speaker2: since you have failed to achieve, even in the modest task that was your charge, since you have stolen my money, and since you have unrepentantly betrayed my trust.
speaker2: i have no choice but to tell these bums that they should do whatever is necessary to recover their money from you, jeffrey lebowski. and with brandt as my witness, tell you this: any further harm visited upon bunny, shall be visited tenfold upon your head.
speaker2: ...by sir. i will not abide another toe.

speaker1: that wasn't her toe. 
speaker2: whose toe was it, walter?
speaker1: how the should i know? i do know that nothing about it indicates--
speaker2: the nail polish, walter.
speaker1: fine, dude. as if it's impossible to get some nail polish, apply it to someone else's toe--
speaker2: someone else's--where the are they gonna--
speaker1: you want a toe? i can get you a toe, believe me. there are ways, dude. you don't wanna know about it, believe me.
speaker2: but walter--
speaker1: i'll get you a toe by this afternoon--with nail polish. these amateurs. they send us a toe, we're supposed to our- selves with fear. christ. my point is--
speaker2: they're gonna kill her, walter, and then they're gonna kill me--
speaker1: well that's just, that's the stress talking, dude. so far we have what looks to me like a series of victimless crimes--
speaker2: what about the toe?

speaker1: could you please keep your voices down--this is a family restaurant. 
speaker2: oh, please dear! i've got news for you: the supreme court has roundly rejected prior restraint!
speaker3: walter, this isn't a first amendment thing.
speaker1: sir, if you don't calm down i'm going to have to ask you to leave.
speaker2: lady, i got buddies who died face- down in the muck so you and i could enjoy this family restaurant!

speaker1: all right, i'm leaving. i'm sorry ma'am. 
speaker2: don't run away from this, dude! goddamnit, this affects all of us!
speaker2: our basic freedoms!
speaker2: i'm staying. finishing my coffee.
speaker2: finishing my coffee.
speaker3: a dripping noise.
speaker4: mr. lebowski, this is duty officer rolvaag of the l.a.p.d.
speaker4: we've recovered your vehicle. it can be claimed at the north hollywood auto circus there on victory.
speaker1: far out. far out.
speaker5: you'll just need to present a--
speaker1: hunh?
speaker1: hey! this is a private residence, man!
speaker1: nice marmot.
speaker6: vee vant zat money, lebowski.
speaker7: you think veer kidding und making mit de funny stuff?
speaker8: vee could do things you only dreamed of, lebowski.
speaker7: ja, vee could really do it, lebowski. vee belief in nossing.
speaker1: 
speaker9: vee belief in nossing, lebowski!

speaker1: christ! 
speaker2: tomorrow vee come back und cut off your chonson.
speaker1: excuse me?

speaker1: just sink about zat, lebowski. 
speaker2: ja, your viggly penis, lebowski.
speaker1: ja, und maybe vee stamp on it und skvush it, lebowski!

speaker1: you're lucky she wasn't chopped, mr. lebowski. must've been a joyride situation; they abandoned the car once they hit the retaining wall. 
speaker1: these were on the road next to the car. you'll have to get in on the other side.
speaker2: my briefcase! it's not here!
speaker1: yeah, sorry, i saw that on the report. you're lucky they left the tape deck though.
speaker2: my briefcase! jesus--what's that smell?
speaker1: uh, yeah. probably a vagrant, slept in the car. or perhaps just used it as a toilet, and moved on.
speaker2: when will you find these guys? i mean, do you have any promising leads?
speaker1: leads, yeah. i'll just check with the boys down at the crime lab. they've assigned four more detectives to the case, got us working in shifts.

speaker1: and then they're gonna stamp on it?! 
speaker2: oh for christ--will you shut the up, donny.
speaker3: i figure my only hope is that the big lebowski kills me before the germans can cut my off.
speaker2: now that is ridiculous, dude. no one is going to cut your off.
speaker3: thanks walter.
speaker2: not if i have anything to say about it.
speaker3: yeah, thanks walter. that gives me a very secure feeling.
speaker2: dude--
speaker3: that makes me feel all warm inside.
speaker2: now dude--
speaker3: this whole thing--i could be sitting here with just pee-stains on my rug.
speaker2: germans. nothing changes. nazis.
speaker1: they were nazis, dude?
speaker2: come on, donny, they were threatening castration!
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: are you gonna split hairs?
speaker1: no--
speaker2: am i wrong?
speaker1: well--
speaker3: they're nihilists.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: they kept saying they believe in nothing.
speaker2: nihilists! walter looks haunted.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: and let's also not forget--let's not forget, dude--that keeping wildlife, an amphibious rodent, for uh, domestic, you know, within the city-- that isn't legal either.
speaker3: what're you, a park ranger now?
speaker2: no, i'm--
speaker3: who gives a about the marmot!
speaker2: --we're sympathizing here, dude--
speaker3: your sympathy! i don't need your sympathy, man, i need my johnson!
speaker1: what do you need that for, dude?
speaker2: you gotta buck up, man, you can't go into the tournament with this negative attitude--
speaker3: the tournament! you, walter!
speaker2: the tournament?!

speaker1: another caucasian, gary. 
speaker2: right, dude.

speaker1: friends like these, huh gary. 
speaker2: that's right, dude.

speaker1: d'ya have a good sarsaparilla? 
speaker2: sioux city sarsaparilla.
speaker3: that's a good one.
speaker3: how ya doin' there, dude?
speaker4: ahh, not so good, man.
speaker3: one a those days, huh. wal, a wiser fella than m'self once said, sometimes you eat the bar and sometimes the bar, wal, he eats you.
speaker4: uh-huh. that some kind of eastern thing?
speaker3: far from it.
speaker4: mm.
speaker3: much obliged.
speaker3: i like your style, dude.

speaker1: well i like your style too, man. got a whole cowboy thing goin'. 
speaker2: thankie. . . just one thing, dude. d'ya have to use s'many cuss words?
speaker1: the are you talking about?
speaker2: okay, have it your way.
speaker2: take it easy, dude.
speaker1: yeah. thanks man.
speaker3: dude! dude!

speaker1: jeffrey, you haven't gone to the doctor. 
speaker2: no it's fine, really, uh--
speaker1: do you have any news regarding my father's money?
speaker2: i, uh... money, yeah, i gotta respecfully, 69 you know, tender my resignation on that matter, 'cause it looks like your mother really was kidnapped after all.
speaker1: she most certainly was not!
speaker2: hey man, why don't you listen occasionally? you might learn something. now i got--
speaker1: and please don't call her my mother.
speaker2: now i got--
speaker1: she is most definitely the perpetrator and not the victim.
speaker2: i'm telling you, i got definitive evidence--
speaker1: from who?
speaker2: the main guy, dieter--
speaker1: dieter hauff?
speaker2: well--yeah, i guess--
speaker1: her "co-star" in the beaver picture?
speaker2: beaver? you mean vagina?--i mean, you know him?
speaker1: dieter has been on the fringes of-- well, of everything in l.a., for about twenty years. look at my lp's. under 'autobahn.'
speaker1: that was his group--they released one album in the mid-seventies.
speaker2: roy orbison. . . pink floyd.
speaker1: huh? autobahn. a-u-t-o. their music is a sort of--ugh--techno-pop.

speaker1: jeez. i miss vinyl. 
speaker2: is he pretending to be the abductor?
speaker1: well...yeah--
speaker2: look, jeffrey, you don't really kidnap someone that you're acquainted with. you can't get away with it if the hostage knows who you are.
speaker1: well yeah...i know that.
speaker2: so dieter has the money?
speaker1: well, no, not exactly. it's a complicated case, maude. lotta ins. lotta outs. and a lotta strands to keep in my head, man. lotta strands in old duder's--
speaker2: do you still have that doctor's number?
speaker1: huh? no, really, i don't even have the bruise any more, i-- she is scribbling.
speaker2: please jeffrey. i don't want to be responsible for any delayed after- effects.
speaker1: delayed after-eff--
speaker2: i want you to see him immediately.
speaker2: i'll see if he's available. he's a good man, and thorough.

speaker1: could you slide your shorts down please, mr. lebowski? 
speaker2: huh? no, she, she hit me right here.
speaker1: i understand sir. could you slide your shorts down please?

speaker1: me. 
speaker1: fuckola, man.

speaker1: he lives in north hollywood on radford, near the in-and-out burger-- 
speaker2: the in-and-out burger is on camrose.
speaker1: near the in-and-out burger--
speaker3: those are good burgers, walter.
speaker1: shut the up, donny. this kid is in the ninth grade, dude, and his father is--are you ready for this?-- arthur digby sellers.
speaker2: who the is that?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: who the is arthur digby sellers?
speaker1: who the f--have you ever heard of a little show called branded, dude?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: all but one man died? there at bitter creek?
speaker2: yeah yeah, i know the show walter, so what?
speaker1: arthur digby sellers wrote 156 episodes, dude.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: the bulk of the series.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: not exactly a lightweight.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and yet his son is a dunce.
speaker2: uh.
speaker1: yeah, go figure. well we'll go out there after the, uh, the.
speaker1: what have you. we'll, uh--
speaker3: we'll be near the in-and-out burger.
speaker1: shut the up, donny. we'll, uh, brace the kid--he'll be a pushover. we'll get that money, if he hasn't spent it already. million clams. and yes, we'll be near the, uh--some burgers, some beers, a few laughs. our troubles are over, dude.

speaker1: me, man! that kid's already spent all the money! 
speaker2: hardly dude, a new 'vette? the kid's still got, oh, 96 to 97 thousand, depending on the options. wait in the car, donny.

speaker1: jace? 
speaker2: hello, pilar? my name is walter sobchak, we spoke on the phone, this is my associate jeffrey lebowski.
speaker1: jace.
speaker2: may we uh, we wanted to talk about little larry. may we come in?
speaker1: jace.

speaker1: larry! sweetie! dat mang is here! 
speaker2: that's him, dude.
speaker3: and a good day to you, sir.
speaker1: see down, please.
speaker2: thank you, ma'am.
speaker2: does he, uh. . . is he still writing?
speaker1: no, no. he has healt' problems.
speaker2: uh-huh.

speaker1: i just want to say, sir, that we're both enormous--on a personal level, branded, especially the early episodes, has been a source of, uh, inspir--- 
speaker2: see down, sweetie. these are the policeman--
speaker1: no ma'am, i didn't mean to give the impression that we're police exactly. we're hoping that it will not be necessary to call the police.
speaker1: but that is up to little larry here. isn't it, larry?
speaker1: is this your homework, larry?
speaker1: is this your homework, larry?
speaker3: look, man, did you--
speaker1: dude, please!. . . is this your homework, larry?
speaker3: just ask him if he--ask him about the car, man!
speaker1: is this yours, larry? is this your homework, larry?
speaker3: is the car out front yours?
speaker1: is this your homework, larry?
speaker3: we know it's his homework, walter! where's the money, you little brat?
speaker1: look, larry. . . have you ever heard of vietnam?
speaker3: oh, for christ's sake, walter!
speaker1: you're going to enter a world of pain, son. we know that this is your homework. we know you stole a car--
speaker3: and the money!
speaker1: and the money. and we know that this is your homework, larry.
speaker1: you're gonna kill your father, larry!.

speaker1: ah, this is pointless. 
speaker1: all right, plan b. you might want to watch out the front window there, larry.
speaker1: this is what happens when you a stranger in the ass, larry.

speaker1: language problem, dude. 
speaker1: maybe he'll understand this.

speaker1: i accept your apology. . . no i, i just want to handle it myself from now on. . . no. that has nothing to do with it. . . .yes, it made it home, i'm calling from home. no, walter, it didn't look like larry was about to crack. 
speaker1: well that's your perception. . . well you're right, walter, and the unspoken message is you and leave me the alone. . . yeah, i'll be at practice.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: pin your diapers on, lebowski. jackie treehorn wants to see you.
speaker3: and we know which lebowski you are, lebowski.
speaker2: yeah. jackie treehorn wants to talk to the deadbeat lebowski.
speaker3: you're not dealing with morons here.

speaker1: this is quite a pad you got here, man. completely unspoiled. 
speaker2: what's your drink, dude?
speaker1: white russian, thanks. how's the business, jackie?
speaker2: i wouldn't know, dude. i deal in publishing, entertainment, political advocacy, and--
speaker1: which one was logjammin'?
speaker2: regrettably, it's true, standards have fallen in adult entertainment. it's video, dude. now that we're competing with the amateurs, we can't afford to invest that little extra in story, production value, feeling.
speaker2: people forget that the brain is the biggest erogenous zone--
speaker1: on you, maybe.
speaker2: of course, you do get the good with the bad. the new technology permits us to do exciting things with interactive software. wave of the future, dude. 100% electronic.
speaker1: uh-huh. well, i still jerk off manually.
speaker2: of course you do. i can see you're anxious for me to get to the point. well dude, here it is. where's bunny?
speaker1: i thought you might know, man.
speaker2: me? how would i know? the only reason she ran off was to get away from her rather sizable debt to me.
speaker1: but she hasn't run off, she's been-- treehorn waves this off.
speaker2: i've heard the kidnapping story, so save it. i know you're mixed up in all this, dude, and i don't care what you're trying to take off her husband. that's your business. all i'm saying is, i want mine.
speaker1: yeah, well, right man, there are many facets to this, uh, you know, many interested parties. if i can find your money, man-- what's in it for the dude?
speaker2: of course, there's that to discuss. refill?
speaker1: does the pope in the woods?
speaker2: let's say a 10% finder's fee?
speaker1: okay, jackie, done. i like the way you do business. your money is being held by a kid named larry sellers. he lives in north hollywood, on radford, near the in-and-out burger. a real brat, but i'm sure your goons'll be able to get it off him, mean he's only fifteen and he's flunking social studies. so if you'll just write me a check for my ten per cent. . . of half a million. . . fifty grand. he is getting to his feet, but sways woozily.
speaker1: i'll go out and mingle.--jesus, you mix a of a caucasian, jackie.
speaker2: a fifteen-year-old? is this your idea of a joke?
speaker1: no funny stuff, jackie. . . the kid's got it. hiya, fellas. . . kid just wanted a car. all the dude ever wanted. . . was his rug back. . . not greedy. . . it really.

speaker1: this is your only i.d.? 
speaker2: i know my rights.
speaker1: you don't know lebowski.
speaker2: i want a lawyer, man. i want bill kunstler.
speaker1: what are you, some kind of sad-assed refugee from the sixties?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: mr. treehorn tells us that he had to eject you from his garden party, that you were drunk and abusive.
speaker2: that guy treats women like objects, man.
speaker1: mr. treehorn draws a lot of water in this town, lebowski. you don't draw we got a nice quiet beach community here, and i aim to keep it nice and quiet. so let me make something plain. i don't like you sucking around bothering our citizens, lebowski. i don't like your jerk- off name, i don't like your face, i don't like your jerk- off behavior, and i don't like you, jerk- off --do i make myself clear?
speaker2: i'm sorry, i wasn't listening.
speaker2: --ow! fascist!
speaker1: stay out of malibu, lebowski!
speaker1: stay out of malibu, deadbeat! keep your ugly goldbricking out of my beach community!

speaker1: man, can you change the station? 
speaker2: you man! you don't like my music, get your own cab!
speaker1: i've had a--
speaker2: i pull over and kick your out, man!
speaker1: --had a rough night, and i hate the eagles, man--
speaker2: that's it! outta this cab!

speaker1:  
speaker2: jeffrey.
speaker1: maude?
speaker2: love me.
speaker1: that's my robe.

speaker1: tell me a little about yourself, jeffrey. 
speaker2: well, uh. . . not much to tell.
speaker2: i was, uh, one of the authors of the port huron statement.--the original port huron statement.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: not the compromised second draft. and then i, uh. . . ever hear of the seattle seven?
speaker1: mmnun.
speaker2: and then. . . let's see, i uh--music business briefly.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: yeah. roadie for metallica. speed of sound tour.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: bunch of assholes. and then, you know, little of this, little of that. my career's, uh, slowed down a bit lately.
speaker1: what do you do for fun?
speaker2: oh, you know, the usual. bowl. drive around. the occasional acid flashback.
speaker1: what happened to your house?
speaker2: jackie treehorn trashed the place. wanted to save the finder's fee.
speaker1: finder's fee?
speaker2: he thought i had your father's money, so he got me out of the way while he looked for it.
speaker1: it's not my father's money, it's the foundation's. why did he think you had it? and who does?
speaker2: larry sellers, a high-school kid. real brat.
speaker1: jeffrey--
speaker2: it's a complicated case, maude. lotta ins, lotta outs. fortunately i've been adhering to a pretty strict, uh, drug regimen to keep my mind, you know, limber. i'm real close to your father's money, real close. it's just--
speaker1: i keep telling you, it's the foundation's money. father doesn't have any.
speaker2: huh? he's loaded.
speaker1: no no, the wealth was all mother's.
speaker2: but your father--he runs stuff, he--
speaker1: we did let father run one of the companies, briefly, but he didn't do very well at it.
speaker2: but he's--
speaker1: he helps administer the charities now, and i give him a reasonable allowance. he has no money of his own. i know how he likes to present himself; father's weakness is vanity. hence the slut.
speaker2: huh. jeez. well, so, did he--is that yoga?
speaker1: it increases the chances of conception.
speaker2: increases?
speaker1: well yes, what did you think this was all about? fun and games?
speaker2: well...no, of course not--
speaker1: i want a child.
speaker2: yeah, okay, but see, the dude--
speaker1: look, jeffrey, i don't want a partner. in fact i don't want the father to be someone i have to see socially, or who'll have any interest in rearing the child himself.
speaker2: huh...
speaker2: so...that doctor.
speaker1: exactly. what happened to your face? did jackie treehorn do that as well?
speaker2: no, the, uh, police chief of malibu. a real reactionary. . . so your father. . . oh man, i get it!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: yeah, my thinking about the case, man, it had become uptight. yeah. your father--

speaker1: what're you talking about? 
speaker2: walter, if you're there, pick up the phone. pick it up, walter, this is an emergency. i'm not--
speaker3: dude?
speaker2: walter, listen, i'm at my place, i need you to come pick me up--
speaker3: i can't drive, dude, it's erev shabbas.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: erev shabbas. i can't drive. i'm not even supposed to pick up the phone, unless it's an emergency.
speaker2: it is a emergency.
speaker3: i understand. that's why i picked up the phone.
speaker2: then why can't you--fuck, never mind, just call donny then, and ask him to--
speaker3: dude, i'm not supposed to make calls--

speaker1: get out of that car, man! 
speaker1: who the are you, man! come on, man!
speaker2: relax, man! no physical harm intended!
speaker1: who the are you? why've you been following me? come on, fuckhead!
speaker2: hey, relax man, i'm a brother shamus.
speaker1: brother shamus? like an irish monk?
speaker2: irish m--what the are you talking about? my name's da fino! i'm a private snoop! like you, man!
speaker1: huh?
speaker3: a dick, man! and let me tell you something: i dig your work. playing one side against the other--in bed with everybody--fabulous stuff, man.
speaker1: i'm not a--ah, it, just stay away from my lady friend, man.
speaker3: hey hey, i'm not messing with your special lady--
speaker1: she's not my special lady, she's my lady friend. i'm just helping her conceive, man!
speaker3: hey, man, i'm not--
speaker1: who're you working for? lebowski? jackie treehorn?
speaker3: the gundersons.
speaker1: the? who the fff--
speaker3: the gundersons. it's a wandering daughter job. bunny lebowski, man. her real name is fawn gunderson. her parents want her back.
speaker3: see?
speaker1: christ.
speaker3: crazy, huh? ran away a year ago. he is holding out another picture.
speaker1: boy. how ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm once they seen karl hungus. he hands back the picture.
speaker3: man! that's terrible!
speaker1: yeah, it
speaker3: well maybe you and me could pool our resources--trade information-- professional courtesy--compeers, you know--
speaker1: yeah, i get it. off, da fino. and stay away from my special la-- from my lady friend.

speaker1: you folks ready? 
speaker2: i haff lingenberry pancakes.
speaker3: lingenberry pancakes.
speaker4: sree picks in blanket.
speaker2: lingenberry pancakes.

speaker1: i mean we totally it up, man. we up his pay-off. and got the kidnappers all off, and the big lebowski yelled at me a lot, but he didn't do anything. huh? 
speaker2: well it's, sometimes the cathartic, uh.
speaker1: i'm saying if he knows i'm a up, then why does he still leave me in charge of getting back his wife? because he doesn't want her back, man! he's had enough! he no longer digs her! it's all a show! but then, why didn't he give a about his million bucks? i mean, he knew we didn't hand off his briefcase, but he never asked for it back.
speaker2: what's your point, dude?
speaker1: his million bucks was never in it, man! there was no money in that briefcase! he was hoping they'd kill her! you throw out a ringer for a ringer!
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: yeah!
speaker2: okay, but how does all this add up to an emergency?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: i'm saying, i see what you're getting at, dude, he kept the money, but my point is, here we are, it's shabbas, the sabbath, which i'm allowed to break only if it's a matter of life and death--
speaker1: walter, come off it. you're not even jewish, you're--
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker1: you're polish catholic--
speaker2: what the are you talking about? i converted when i married cynthia! come on, dude!
speaker1: yeah, and you were--
speaker2: you know this!
speaker1: and you were divorced five years ago.
speaker2: yeah? what do you think happens when you get divorced? you turn in your library card? get a new driver's license? stop being jewish?
speaker1: this driveway.

speaker1: i'm as jewish as tevye 
speaker2: it's just part of your whole sick cynthia thing. taking care of her dog. going to her synagogue. you're living in the past.
speaker1: three thousand years of beautiful tradition, from moses to sandy koufax--

speaker1: he can't see you, dude. 
speaker2: where'd she been?
speaker1: visiting friends of hers in palm springs. just picked up and left, never bothered to tell us.
speaker2: but i guess she told dieter.
speaker3: dude! he never even kidnapped her.
speaker1: who's this gentleman, dude?
speaker3: who'm i? i'm a veteran!
speaker1: you shouldn't go in there, dude! he's very angry!

speaker1: well, she's back. no thanks to you. 
speaker2: where's the money, lebowski?

speaker1: who the is he? 
speaker2: i'll tell you who i am! i'm the guy who's gonna kick your phony

speaker1: we know the briefcase was empty, man. we know you kept the million bucks yourself. 
speaker2: well, you have your story, i have mine. i say i entrusted the money to you, and you stole it.

speaker1: you thought bunny'd been kidnapped and you could use it as a pretext to make some money disappear. all you needed was a sap to pin it on, and you'd just met me. you thought, hey, a deadbeat, a loser, someone the square community won't give a about. 
speaker2: well? aren't you?
speaker1: well. . . yeah.
speaker2: all right, get out. both of you.
speaker3: look at that phony, dude! pretending to be a millionaire!
speaker2: i said out. now.
speaker3: let me tell you something else. i've seen a lot of spinals, dude, and this guy is a fake. a goldbricker.
speaker3: this guy walks. i've never been more certain of anything in my life!
speaker2: stay away from me, mister!
speaker3: walk, you phony!
speaker2: put me down, you son of a
speaker1: walter!
speaker3: it's all over, man! we call your bluff!

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: you're bullies! cowards, both of you! walter is abashed. the big lebowski flails about on the floor.
speaker1: oh,
speaker3: he can't walk, walter!
speaker1: yeah, i can see that, dude.
speaker2: you monsters!
speaker3: help me put him back in his chair.
speaker1: sorry man.

speaker1: stay away from me! you bullies! you and these women! you won't leave a man his balls! 
speaker2: walter, you
speaker3: dude, i didn't know. i wouldn't've done it if i knew he was a crybaby.
speaker2: we're sorry, man. we're really sorry.
speaker2: there ya go. sorry man.
speaker3: he didn't look like a spinal.
speaker4: scattered at the cut.
speaker5: each with a beer at the scoring table.
speaker3: sure you'll see some tank battles. but fighting in desert is very different from fighting in canopy jungle.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker3: i mean 'nam was a foot soldier's war whereas, uh, this thing should be a cakewalk. i mean i had an m16, jacko, not an abrams tank. just me and charlie, man, eyeball to eyeball.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: that's combat. the man in the black pyjamas, dude. worthy adversary.
speaker6: who's in pyjamas, walter?
speaker3: shut the up, donny. not a bunch of fig-eaters with towels on their heads tryin' to find reverse on a soviet tank. this is not a worthy--

speaker1: what's this "day of rest" man?! 
speaker1: what is this bullshit, man? i don't care! it don't matter to but you're not fooling me! you might fool the in the league office, but you don't fool it's bush league psych-out stuff! laughable, man! i would've you in the saturday, i'll you in the next wednesday instead!

speaker1: you got a date wednesday, man! 
speaker2: he's cracking.

speaker1: they finally did it. they killed my car. 
speaker2: vee vant zat money, lebowski.
speaker3: ja, uzzervize vee kill ze girl.
speaker4: ja, it seems you forgot our little deal, lebowski.
speaker1: you don't have the girl, dipshits. we know you never did. so you've got nothin' on my johnson.

speaker1: are these the nazis, walter? 
speaker2: they're nihilists, donny, nothing to be afraid of.
speaker3: vee don't care. vee still vant zat money or vee you up.
speaker4: ja, vee still vant ze money. vee sreaten you.
speaker2: you. the three of you.
speaker5: hey, cool it walter.
speaker2: there's no ransom if you don't have a hostage. that's what ransom is. those are the rules.
speaker3: zere are no roolz!

speaker1: his girlfriend gafe up her toe! she sought we'd be getting million dollars! iss not fair! 
speaker2: fair! who's the nihilist

speaker1: okay. vee take ze money you haf on you und vee call it eefen. 
speaker2: you.
speaker3: come on, walter, we're ending this thing cheap.
speaker2: what's mine is mine.
speaker3: come on, walter!.
speaker3: four dollars here!
speaker3: almost five!
speaker4: i got eighteen dollars, dude.
speaker2: what's mine is mine.

speaker1: dieter drops it. 
speaker2: awkwardly circling, evading franz's kicks.

speaker1: we've got a man down, dude. 
speaker2: hy they shot him, walter!
speaker1: no dude.
speaker2: they shot donny!
speaker1: there weren't any shots.
speaker2: then what's...
speaker1: it's a heart attack.
speaker2: wha.
speaker1: call the medics, dude.
speaker2: wha. . . donny--
speaker1: hurry dude. i'd go but i'm pumping blood. might pass out.
speaker1: rest easy, good buddy, you're doing fine. we got help choppering in.

speaker1: hello, gentlemen. you are the bereaved? 
speaker2: yeah man.
speaker1: francis donnelly. pleased to meet you.
speaker2: jeffrey lebowski.
speaker3: walter sobchak.
speaker2: the dude, actually. is what, uh.
speaker4: excuse me?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker4: yes. i understand you're taking away the remains.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: we have the urn.
speaker4: and i assume this is credit card?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker3: what's this?
speaker4: that is for the urn.
speaker3: don't need it. we're scattering the ashes.
speaker4: yes, so we were informed. however, we must of course transmit the remains to you in a receptacle.
speaker3: this is a hundred and eighty dollars.
speaker4: yes sir. it is our most modestly priced receptacle.
speaker2: well can we--
speaker3: a hundred and eighty dollars?!
speaker4: they range up to three thousand.
speaker3: yeah, but we're--
speaker2: can we just rent it from you?
speaker4: sir, this is a mortuary, not a rental house.
speaker3: we're scattering the ashes!
speaker2: walter--

speaker1: sir, please lower your voice-- 
speaker2: hey man, don't you have something else you could put it in?
speaker1: that is our most modestly priced receptacle.

speaker1: i'll say a few words. 
speaker1: donny was a good bowler, and a good man. he was. . . he was one of us. he was a man who loved the outdoors, and bowling, and as a surfer explored the beaches of southern california from redondo to calabassos. and he was an avid bowler. and a good friend. he died--he died as so many of his generation, before his time. in your wisdom you took him, lord. as you took so many bright flowering young men, at khe san and lan doc and hill 364. these young men gave their lives. and donny too. donny who. . . who loved bowling.
speaker1: and so, theodore--donald--karabotsos, in accordance with what we think your dying wishes might well have been, we commit your mortal remains to the bosom of.
speaker1: the pacific ocean, which you loved so well.

speaker1: goodnight, sweet prince. 
speaker1: i'm sorry dude.
speaker1: wind.
speaker2: goddamnit walter! you asshole!
speaker1: dude! dude, i'm sorry!
speaker2: you make everything a travesty!
speaker1: dude, i'm--it was an accident!
speaker2: what about that about vietnam!
speaker1: dude, i'm sorry--
speaker2: what the does vietnam have to do with anything! what the were you talking about?!
speaker1: dude, i'm sorry--
speaker2: you're a walter!
speaker1: awww, it dude. let's go bowling.

speaker1: the dude walks up to the bar. 
speaker2: two oat sodas, gary.
speaker3: right. good luck tomorrow.
speaker2: thanks, man.
speaker3: sorry to hear about donny.
speaker2: yeah. well, you know, sometimes you eat the bear, and, uh.
speaker4: howdy do, dude.
speaker2: oh, hey man, how are ya? i wondered if i'd see you again.
speaker4: wouldn't miss the semis. how things been goin'?
speaker2: ahh, you know. strikes and gutters, ups and downs.
speaker4: sure, i gotcha.
speaker2: thanks, gary...take care, man, i gotta get back.
speaker4: sure. take it easy, dude--i know that you will.

speaker1: yeah man. well, you know, the dude abides. 
speaker2: the dude abides.
speaker2: i don't know about you, but i take comfort in that. it's good knowin' he's out there, the dude, takin' her easy for all us sinners. shoosh. i sure hope he makes the finals. welp, that about does her, wraps her all up. things seem to've worked out pretty good for the dude'n walter, and it was a purt good story, dontcha think? made me laugh to beat the band. parts, anyway. course--i didn't like seein' donny go. but then, happen to know that there's a little lebowski on the way. i guess that's the way the whole durned human comedy keeps perpetuatin' it-self, down through the generations, westward the wagons, across the sands a time until-- aw, look at me, i'm ramblin' again. wal, uh hope you folks enjoyed yourselves.
speaker2: catch ya further on down the trail.

