speaker1: - rivera looks in for the sign, he has it, the pitch, saenz swings and - 
speaker2: - a ground out to second, thom, is not what the a's were looking for from saenz - down by two in the ninth -
speaker1: eric byrnes has emerged from the dugout to bat for menechino -

speaker1: - the a's are down to their last strike and this yankee crowd is on its feet - rivera squints for the sign, he has it, delivers and - 
speaker1: it is bedlam in new york. the yankees - down two games to none - have come back to win three, and the division series.
speaker2: this is an exceptional feat not only for new york, thom, but for oakland - though not the kind you can be proud of: only once before has a team lost a division series after winning the first two games -

speaker1: it's okay, joe, you can leave it on. 
speaker2: no, it's okay, i don't need to watch it.
speaker1: how's meg?
speaker2: she's good, thanks.

speaker1: and the boys? 
speaker2: they're good. everybody's good.
speaker1: that's good.
speaker1: night.
speaker2: night, billy. it was a great season.

speaker1: they had three times your payroll, billy. 
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: you're not watching them celebrate, right?
speaker2: no. that would be, uh--
speaker1: pointless? self-destructive? masochistic?
speaker2: are you asking me to pick one?
speaker1: what you should be doing is thinking about what an amazing job you did and how great you are.
speaker2: i'll be honest, right this minute i'm not thinking about either of those things.

speaker1: you take a team with that payroll to the playoffs? you take the yankees to a fifth game? i'm not even sure the better team won. 
speaker2: they were down two-love and then beat us three in a row. trust me, the better team won.

speaker1: let's go away. 
speaker2: that sounds good.

speaker1: someplace they don't have a baseball team. 
speaker2: how about oakland?
speaker1: okay, here are the rules for tonight. you can do anything you want but you can't give any quotes to the press, go on the internet or hurt my car, we have a deal?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: they had three times your payroll, billy.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: how about hawaii? i'll make a reservation someplace. the place with the turtles.
speaker1: great. i'm on my way.

speaker1: is it boston? you're talking to boston? 
speaker2: what does it matter to you?
speaker1: what?!
speaker3: i mean -- what does it matter since whatever it is you can't afford it.
speaker1: you don't know that.
speaker3: i don't?
speaker4: you need to hurry.
speaker1: i don't know that -- since i don't know what they're offering.
speaker1: what did she say?
speaker5: she said we had to hurry up.

speaker1: scott? scott? 
speaker1: what did they offer?
speaker2: they offered seven and a quarter.
speaker1: just to be clear -- they offered seven and a quarter.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: as opposed to you said seven and a quarter and they're thinking about it.
speaker2: no, they offered seven and a quarter and i'm thinking about it. and you're thinking -- what.
speaker1: i'm thinking i don't want to lose damon, but i don't pay my whole infield seven million dollars.
speaker3: we're losing damon?
speaker2: for seven and a half, billy, you can keep johnny damon and we can be done thinking. i have to go, my plane is boarding.
speaker1: wait, don't hang up. don't hang up --
speaker4: is that phone still on?
speaker1: what's the difference?

speaker1: faradie. can his phone be on? 
speaker2: sir, you need to turn your phone off.
speaker3: it's already through.
speaker3: seven point five?
speaker4: seven point five.
speaker3: i'll talk to steve.
speaker4: talk to steve.
speaker5: try to relax.
speaker3: a small emergency is starting to develop.
speaker5: try. try to relax.
speaker3: you look fantastic today.
speaker6: hello?
speaker3: arn. billy. we gotta talk about giambi.
speaker5: wait, we're losing giambi, too?
speaker6: i can't talk about that now. i can't talk about anything now.
speaker3: we can talk now. we're talking now.

speaker1: we can't talk now. i'm at a family thing. i'll call you monday. 
speaker2: who are you talking to -- the yankees?
speaker1: i'm talking to everybody. but not today. i'm not in today. i'm hanging up.
speaker2: don't hang up.
speaker2: he hung up.
speaker3: you found giambi.
speaker3: a thousand dollars says you don't get on the plane.
speaker4: arn tellem's office.
speaker2: denise. billy.
speaker2: these guys are auctioning off my team one player at a time.
speaker4: he's not in today, billy.
speaker2: i know, i just want to send him flowers.
speaker4: flowers?
speaker3: flowers?
speaker2: where would i send them?
speaker4: to who?
speaker2: to arn.

speaker1: you want to send him flowers? 
speaker2: you're not going to be anywhere near hawaii.
speaker3: to where he is now, yes.
speaker1: beth israel temple, beverly hills.
speaker2: the airport is as close as you got.
speaker3: thank you, tara.
speaker1: denise.
speaker2: i'm tara.
speaker3: i know. i need a day.

speaker1: one day. i'll fly out tomorrow. 
speaker2: it's gonna be more than one day.
speaker2: we're losing isringhausen too?
speaker1: only if my luck stays exactly the same.
speaker2: it's like the bell rang but you're still getting hit in the head. just in case.
speaker1: i'm sorry. have fun out there.

speaker1: i'm picking up a guy at the breakfast buffet. 
speaker2: a left-handed reliever if you can.

speaker1: how much longer you think? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nah, it's okay.

speaker1: i don't wanna lose him. 
speaker2: this is my nephew's bar mitzvah.
speaker1: he did well with his torah portion i thought.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: what did they offer? 
speaker2: he's not staying in oakland, billy.
speaker1: what did the yankees offer him?
speaker2: it's new york; you've got to give a player a reason not to play there.
speaker1: what did they offer?
speaker2: 17 million.
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i don't pay my whole infield 17 million dollars.
speaker2: i know, i know...
speaker1: for how long?
speaker2: 17 a year for seven years.
speaker1: a hundred and twenty million dollars?
speaker2: hundred and nineteen.
speaker2: you gotta get steve to let you spend some money.
speaker1: that's pretty good advice, i should do that.

speaker1: steve doesn't get it. this isn't a charity raffle. 
speaker2: arn. i get it, he gets it, jason gets it and you certainly get it. i'll talk to him.
speaker1: and you're losing isringhausen, too.
speaker2: ya think?
speaker1: i've gotta get back.
speaker2: hey mazel tov, arn.
speaker1: thank you. good luck.
speaker3: are you billy beane?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: that was a pretty serious choke.
speaker2: are you from around here?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: you a dodger fan?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: here, drink a lot of this.

speaker1: we're losing damon and giambi. we can't survive losing damon and giambi. 
speaker2: isringhausen's gone, too, don't you think?
speaker1: i can win without a closer. i can't without power.
speaker2: so negotiate with them.
speaker1: i have. they want more.
speaker2: so offer them a little more.
speaker1: i have. they want more than a little more.
speaker2: like what. what'll it cost - say - to keep giambi?

speaker1: 17 for how many - 
speaker2: one.
speaker1: for one year?
speaker1: i have confidence you'll find a way to make it work without them.

speaker1: i can't. 
speaker2: sure you can.

speaker1: billy. what are we? the taj mahal? we're a small-market team. obviously, we can't afford giambi at such a - 
speaker2: fine. he's gone. but i might - for a bit more than last year - be able to keep damon in
speaker2: i need more money, steve.
speaker1: billy...
speaker2: i can't compete against a hundred and twenty million dollar payroll with a forty million dollar payroll.
speaker1: we just won 102 games with a forty million dollar payroll.
speaker2: with giambi and damon. we wouldn't have without them.
speaker2: you can't ask me to be okay with losing. that's too much to ask a professional athlete.

speaker1: it's too much, steve! 
speaker2: you're not a professional athlete!
speaker2: you're a professional gm.

speaker1: scott. billy. 
speaker2: what was that beep?
speaker1: it's just my phone, it's about to die, but this'll be quick - listen - i'm losing my favorite prospects, but i got you the seven point five.
speaker2: that's great. i'll get right back to

speaker1: no. no, you won't. i got it for you and we're done. damon stays in oakland. 
speaker2: billy - i have to talk to johnny - obviously. it's my fiduciary -
speaker1: whose number is that - seven point five. mine?
speaker2: no, it's mine -
speaker1: it's yours. so make your call, but don't play me, scott. we have a deal. i won't be a stalking horse. the word stays in the - dictionary.

speaker1: sorry, hon. i'm gonna need another day. 
speaker2: take your time, do your thing. there are a lot of cute guys here.
speaker1: you've got my suitcase?
speaker2: no, the airline sent it to prague.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: well, we left out of oakland, honey... and i think the baggage handlers knew it was yours.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: i gotta take this.
speaker2: wish you weren't insane. miss you.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: billy. scott. i just got off the phone with dan.
speaker1: no, you didn't.

speaker1: yeah, i was surprised he even called me. because he had said -- 
speaker2: no, i have johnny for seven-point-five or he's not playing anywhere, because that's the deal --
speaker1: boston just upped it to seven-seven-five.
speaker1: you there?
speaker2: we had a deal.
speaker1: we have a deal. if it's eight million.
speaker2: why am i the ugliest girl at the dance, scott? why do i get the feeling i'm always gonna be a quarter million short?
speaker1: i'm just doing my job for my client.
speaker2: no, you played me. and you're playing me now. congratulations, you win. billy hangs up on him.

speaker1: alright, guys... we had a great year. we won 102 games and we only came a buck short in new york. now the bad news... we've got three big holes to fill. 
speaker1: let's start with who we like for giambi. we'll go around the room. who you like, matty?
speaker2: i like geronimo.
speaker3: guy's an athlete. this guy is big, fast and talented.
speaker4: six foot four.
speaker5: top of my list.
speaker6: clean cut, good face.
speaker7: good jaw. he's the real deal.
speaker4: five tools, good lookin'.
speaker8: can he hit?
speaker2: he's a tools guy.
speaker8: can he hit?
speaker2: he's got a great swing. natural swing.

speaker1: so you're saying he can't hit. 
speaker2: he can hit.
speaker3: the ball explodes off his bat.
speaker4: it's exciting. when he hits it sounds like he's droppin' a firecracker at his feet.
speaker5: down in the you can hear that sound.
speaker3: sounds like mays, mantle, aaron...
speaker1: that's not what i asked. i asked can he hit.
speaker2: he's a good hitter.
speaker1: if he's a good hitter, why doesn't he hit good?
speaker2: he needs a little work. he'll be able to hit. he could be a great hitter.
speaker1: right... we put him up against big league competition and suddenly he'll be able to hit. grady moves on --
speaker6: artie, who do we like?
speaker4: i like perez. he swings like a man.
speaker2: he swings like a man who swings at too much.

speaker1: there's some work needs to be done. i admit it. he needs to be reworked a little. but he's noticeable. 
speaker2: he's notable?
speaker1: no, he's noticeable. you notice him.
speaker3: he's got an ugly girlfriend.
speaker4: what's that mean?
speaker3: ugly girlfriend means no confidence.
speaker4: alright. that's true.
speaker5: i agree with art. i like the way he walks into a room. kid's so confident his gets there two minutes before he does.
speaker6: passes the eye candy test. he's got the looks, he's ready to play the part. he just needs some playing time.
speaker7: i'm just saying, his girlfriend's a 6.
speaker4: billy, if you want to talk about another giambi, this guy could be it.
speaker2: is that a suggestion, billy?
speaker8: guys, stop. you're talking like this is business as usual. it's not.
speaker2: we're trying to solve the problem.

speaker1: not like this. you're not even looking at the problem. 
speaker2: we not only have a very clear understanding of the problem we now face, but everyone in this room has faced similar problems countless times before.
speaker1: good. what's the problem?
speaker2: the problem is that we've lost 3 key players that we now have to replace.
speaker1: uh-uh. what's the problem?
speaker3: the problem is the same as it always is; we've got to put a team together with what we've got.
speaker1: uh-uh. what's the problem?
speaker4: we've got 38 home runs to replace, 120 rbi's, 47 doubles...
speaker1: okay, stop. the problem we're trying to solve is that this is an unfair game. there are rich teams, poor teams, 50 feet of and then there's us. and now we've been gutted. we're organ donors to the rich. the red sox took our kidneys and the yankees took our heart. and now i'm listening to the same old about having a good body and being a tools guy like you're looking for fabio. is there another first baseman like giambi?
speaker1: is there?
speaker1: then stop looking for one because what we'll surely wind up with is the mcnuggets version of giambi.

speaker1: look, we're gonna find 25 guys, put `em through player development, teach `em how to play oakland a baseball. this is no time to push the panic button. this is the way we've been doing it for 150 years. let us do our job. 
speaker2: if we try to play like the yankees in here, we're not going to be able to play with them out there.
speaker1: that's fortune cookie wisdom.
speaker2: no, it's just regular wisdom.
speaker3: who's fabio?
speaker1: okay, billy. clearly you have something on your mind.
speaker2: bill james.
speaker4: you're not serious?
speaker5: we're not playing fantasy baseball, billy.
speaker6: those aren't new ideas, they disproved that years ago.
speaker1: bill james was a night security guard at the stokely van camp pork and beans factory.
speaker2: he thinks differently than anyone in baseball.
speaker1: he's not in baseball. he's in pork and beans.

speaker1: don't attack the man, attack the argument. 
speaker2: i think he just won the argument.
speaker1: what if we've been wrong this whole time about what ingredients manufacture a win? what if this whole time we thought it was the chicken that made the chicken soup taste good when really it was the onions that made the chicken soup taste good? onions are a lot cheaper than chicken, you see what i'm saying?
speaker3: i don't have the first idea what you're saying.
speaker1: we gotta start over. we gotta rethink this thing. we gotta look where others aren't looking.
speaker4: with all due respect, we've been doing this for a long time.
speaker1: that doesn't mean you're doing it right. do you watch nature docs? you know what happens to the runt of the litter? he dies. i'm open to any solution, as long as it's not what the other guys are doing.
speaker1: now, i'm going to cleveland to poach an outfielder named brandon garcia --

speaker1: billy, i've seen garcia. he's got a bad body. it's not a pretty sight. 
speaker2: kid wears a large pair of underwear.

speaker1: that is a big boy. 
speaker2: he's not just big, but kind of doughy. a fleshy kind of body.
speaker3: oh, you mean like babe ruth.
speaker4: he's no babe ruth.
speaker5: when he walks, billy, his thighs stick together. there's enough friction there to start a bonfire.
speaker1: if you saw him, i'm telling you, you wouldn't want to go to cleveland.
speaker6: billy, can i make a suggestion? if you could get ricardo rincon... he'd be worth the trip to cleveland.
speaker7: that would solve our left handed reliever problem. unanimous approval from the scouts --
speaker3: really?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: i should get rincon?
speaker4: definitely.
speaker3: okay. i'll also come back with joe dimaggio and ty cobb. and who would like a fabergã© egg? guys, you aren't hearing me -- in what universe can we afford rincon?
speaker3: i'm asking you guys to look at this game differently than you've ever looked at it before. i'm going to cleveland.

speaker1: and when i come back, i want you to tell me something i don't already know. i want to question everything. we've got to rethink this game. as he exits -- 
speaker1: and grady? nobody cares about a 102 win season.
speaker2: what's a fabergã© egg?

speaker1: this is the guy. 
speaker2: he's got a great path. i love the extension in his swing and the backspin he creates.
speaker1: that's some amazing power right there, huh?

speaker1: good approach, great balance. how's he compare to the others around the country? 
speaker2: he's number one. let's just hope he's still there when we pick.
speaker1: this guy'll go in the first round.

speaker1: billy. i'm sabatini, area scout, new york mets. can we get a couple minutes of your time, find out more about you? 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: i'd like to introduce you to tom martinez.
speaker3: very impressive performance today. in my job as the national cross-checker for the new york mets, i see the top 200 players in the united states. it's been a while since i've seen a five tools guy, the complete package. your throwing ability, your fielding skills... ed told me you had power but i had no idea it was of the light tower variety. i hope you're as interested in professional baseball as we are in acquiring you in the upcoming draft.

speaker1: well, sir, i'd need to talk it out with my parents, decide if baseball is something i want to do full time. i have a scholarship to play football at stanford. 
speaker2: well, billy, we're certainly looking forward to meeting your folks and talking to them as well. and we believe in college, but that's something you can do in the winter months. you need to know the sky's the limit with your ability. you could be a superstar before you've even graduated. but to get to that level, you need to work with our people. pro-ball is where you need to be to develop the skills gave you.

speaker1: so billy, what are you looking for? 
speaker2: 50 million in additional payroll.
speaker1: try giambi.
speaker2: ouch.

speaker1: 120 million. 
speaker2: i should've been a hitter.
speaker1: where's steve in all this?
speaker2: supportive. excited about rebuilding the team.
speaker1: bonds is available.
speaker2: yeah, how do i afford the rest of the field?
speaker1: so what are you looking for? i want to help out.
speaker2: i guess you've touched the bottom of the sports industry when your opponent is

speaker1: i need a lefty reliever and i want ricardo rincon. 
speaker2: not going to happen.
speaker1: not even a discussion?
speaker2: come on billy, even if you could afford him we're not about to let him go.
speaker1: why's that? you've got the venezuelan kid in north carolina you're bringing up.
speaker2: we dished him to detroit. keep up.
speaker1: well there goes my other idea.

speaker1: what else you thinking billy? 
speaker2: you have any outfielders i should be looking at?
speaker1: to replace damon?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: that's a tough one billy.
speaker2: yeah. who do you got?
speaker1: the guys you might be able to afford?
speaker2: tell me about garcia.
speaker1: to replace damon?!
speaker2: is he healthy?
speaker1: he had a back thing, some minor surgery, but he's okay. petey?
speaker3: he'll be good by spring training.
speaker2: he'll do. i can give you guthrie for him if you kick in some cash.
speaker1: mark guthrie?
speaker1: how much are you thinking?

speaker1: sorry about that. so... garcia is going to be a no. what else are you thinking about? 
speaker2: let's make it work, i'll go straight up with you, garcia for guthrie, no kicker.
speaker1: sorry billy, who else you interested in?

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: my name is peter brand.
speaker1: what do you do?
speaker2: i'm special assistant to mark shapiro.
speaker1: so what do you do?
speaker3: hey, mind your own business.
speaker3: what do you do?
speaker2: mostly player evaluation right now.

speaker1: why does mark listen to you? 
speaker2: actually he rarely does.
speaker1: he just did.
speaker2: i don't think he was really listening to me in there per se.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah, i think he was listening to bruce.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: peter brand.
speaker1: i don't give a rat's about your name. nothing from peter.
speaker1: what happened in there?
speaker2: i'm not sure what you're asking me.
speaker1: what did you tell butch?
speaker2: huh? oh bruce? i told him i like garcia.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: probably for the same reasons you do.
speaker1: meaning what?

speaker1: he's undervalued. you were smart to go after him. 
speaker2: what makes him undervalued?
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: where you from peter? 
speaker2: maryland.
speaker1: where did you go to school?
speaker2: yale.
speaker1: i hate yale.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: kid from yale once blocked a trade i was trying to make. what'd you study?
speaker2: economics.
speaker1: what are you doing in baseball?
speaker2: i love baseball.
speaker1: i'm just curious. why were you so cagey in there?

speaker1: i work for a different team. 
speaker2: i know, but i'm the first person in baseball who's ever talked to you this long. right? why is garcia undervalued?
speaker1: okay, truthfully, it might not be so easy to explain.
speaker2: really? why's that peter?
speaker1: we might not see the game the same way.
speaker2: oh really? what do you mean by that?
speaker1: you've spent your life in baseball and i don't have a very traditional view of the game.
speaker2: hey pete, just say it. i'm not about to beat you up. say what you've always wanted to say to a gm.
speaker1: baseball thinking is medieval. it's stuck in the dark ages. i have a more scientific view of the game.
speaker2: keep going, peter.
speaker1: there is an epidemic failure within the game to understand what's really happening. and it leads people who run major league teams to misjudge their players and mismanage their teams. they're still asking the wrong questions. people who run baseball teams still think in terms of buying players. sorry to say that.
speaker2: peter, don't apologize for what you believe.

speaker1: his batting average is ignorable. what matters is his on base percentage- 
speaker1: - which in 2001 was .324. that's 10 points lower than league average, and 17 points lower than garcia's.
speaker1: true, he stole some bases. but attempted steals in general have to succeed 70% of the time before they even start to contribute to run totals. in 2001 he cost you runs. damon's tagged out at second.

speaker1: he's got a good glove. he's a decent leadoff hitter. he steals bases. but he's not worth the seven point five million boston is paying him. you're lucky to have him off your payroll, it opens all kinds of interesting possibilities. 
speaker2: you read bill james, pete?
speaker1: yes. these ideas and this approach to the game aren't all new. in fact, some of them have been around for two decades.

speaker1: if this approach has been around for so long, why isn't anybody in baseball doing them? 
speaker2: that's a much more difficult question than how to win baseball games. once you begin to pull at that string, your understanding of the world might begin to unravel.

speaker1: billy? they're here. 
speaker2: billy... good to see you again. obviously you're a very special player. we'd like to compliment you on your high school career, and we're looking forward to you being a part of the mets family.
speaker2: there's good -- and there's premium. your son is premium. he has it all -- power, speed, the arm. the look -- and i'm never wrong about that. which is why this is a premium number.
speaker1: billy's been offered a scholarship to stanford.

speaker1: i know. and that's a great accomplishment. i'm sure you're very proud of him. 
speaker2: so he can accept that, go there, and then -
speaker1: i understand how important college is. i do. but what i can't do is burn a second first-round draft pick on someone who can't play for four years -- no matter how good he is. four years is ample time for someone to get hurt. it happens all the time. so, no. i'm sorry. it has to be one or the other. to postpone four years is four years he could be in big leagues. the sooner he gets there the sooner he can reap the benefits. stanford or the money. young billy regards the check,
speaker1: we're going to give him a different kind of education. this won't be his life's career, it'll be his first career. he's going to be a young guy in the business world when his baseball career is done. he'll still have his whole life ahead of him.
speaker3: it's your decision, billy. whatever you decide is fine with us.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: it's billy beane.
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: i don't care. would you have drafted me in the first round?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: after i left you ran me through your computer, right? would you have drafted me in the first round?
speaker1: you were a good baseball player.
speaker2: would you have drafted me in the first round?
speaker1: i'd have drafted you in the ninth round. no signing bonus. you'd have passed and gone to stanford.
speaker2: pack your suitcases.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i just bought you from the cleveland indians.

speaker1: good evening. 
speaker2: good evening.
speaker1: i asked you to do three.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: to evaluate three available players.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and how many did you do?

speaker1: 51, i don't know why i lied just then. 
speaker2: talk me through the wall.
speaker1: this is the american league west. this year we're going to need to win between 97 and 101 games to make the post season. here's the number of runs we'll need to score in order to win those games and here's the number of runs we can allow.

speaker1: let's make sure we're on the same page. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: we're going to re-think baseball.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: look for an inefficiencies in statistics.
speaker2: examine the ways that runs are scored and prevented.
speaker1: exploit the fact that unspectacular runs are just as valuable as 450-foot bombs.
speaker2: unspectacular runs are more valuable.
speaker1: why?

speaker1: we believe there's a river that hasn't been fished. 
speaker2: we know it for sure.
speaker1: and because players have been overlooked because they don't rise to the standards of traditional baseball thinking, we believe that in this river, there are fish...fish who-- help me with--
speaker2: forget the fish. in this room is every available player at every level of professional baseball, and somewhere in that group are 25 players that everyone has else has thrown out.

speaker1: an island of misfit toys. in this room is a championship team that we can afford. 
speaker2: yes. but let me ask you this. if our theory is right--
speaker1: math isn't a theory.
speaker2: if it's right--
speaker1: it's right.
speaker2: it sounds right.
speaker1: it is right.
speaker2: if math isn't a theory--
speaker1: it isn't.
speaker2: i'm gonna punch you in the kidneys if you don't let me finish a sentence.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: if this is right, why isn't everybody doing it? in fact, why isn't anybody doing it?
speaker1: somebody once said, "it's not what you don't know that worries me it's what you know for sure that's got me scared." in the mid-19th century in budapest there was an incredibly high instance of mothers dying shortly after childbirth from a disease called puerperal fever.

speaker1: a doctor named semmelweiss showed that if the attending physicians and nurses sterilized their hands before delivery, the mortality rate dropped to 1%. 
speaker2: and he was vilified?
speaker1: he was institutionalized. for suggesting that washing your hands before putting them inside someone else's body was a good idea. high functioning people can live under the spell of an inexplicable mental lapse when they think as a group. why isn't anybody else doing it? because they don't think guys who look like you are what win baseball games. they know it for sure.
speaker2: alright, let's find our team.

speaker1: nervous? 
speaker2: no??
speaker1: huh. interesting.

speaker1: hey, art. 
speaker2: can i talk to you a second before you get started.
speaker1: i got a lot to do.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: who's the kid?
speaker1: that's peter.
speaker2: i can't manage this team under a one-year contract.
speaker1: sure you can.

speaker1: no i can't. 
speaker2: i've got to put a team on the field, then i'll deal with your contract.
speaker1: how about you deal with the manager's contract and then put a team on the field?
speaker2: at the moment, if a ground ball is hit to first base, nobody's going to be there to stop it from rolling.
speaker1: i have to tell you it's not easy doing what i do under the cloud of a one-year contract.
speaker2: i know. i been there.
speaker1: i know you have. and a 1-year contract says the same thing to a manager as it does to a player: there's not a lot of faith there. which is strange after a 102-win season.
speaker2: if you lose the last one of the season nobody gives a about the others.
speaker1: it's on me now?
speaker2: it's on me, art!
speaker2: and the kid's the new assistant general manager.
speaker1: what the are you about to do?

speaker1: how did it go in cleveland? 
speaker2: it was cold.
speaker1: let's get after our relief pitching problem.
speaker2: we got chad bradford. right-hander.
speaker1: submariner?
speaker2: that's the one. technically an underhander.
speaker1: what's his velocity?
speaker2: unimpressive.
speaker3: about 85.
speaker1: does he have a good breaking ball?
speaker2: doesn't have one.
speaker1: why do you like this guy?
speaker2: well, he gets people out.

speaker1: the left-hander hitters get a really good look at him. 
speaker2: he's down there. he's down there real low, too.
speaker3: let's move on.

speaker1: well, we, i think, have fared better. we have some ideas for what to do about giambi. 
speaker2: knock me down.
speaker1: we trade power for speed. a rabbit for a gorilla - we go for an overachiever. a big heart in the last year his contract. tend to play hard. we usually get a pretty good year out of them. make up for some of the offense we lost. or the other option. just a thought. we go for a high-maintenance guy. a guy that's a little difficult but talented. a guy like milton bradley. well, not like milton. milton himself. which do you want to talk about first?
speaker2: none of them.
speaker2: you're still looking to replace him; you're just saying it another way.
speaker3: we got some trades here.
speaker2: we can't do it. what we can do is recreate his value to us in the aggregate.

speaker1: the - 
speaker2: giambi's on-base percentage was .477. damon's was .324. and olmeda's - bless his heart - was .291. add that up and you get - he points to peter.
speaker3: you want me to speak?
speaker2: when i point at you, yes.
speaker3: ten-ninety-two.
speaker2: divided by three -
speaker3: three-sixty-four.
speaker2: that's what we're looking for. and that's what we'll find. three players whose average obp is -
speaker3: three-sixty-four.
speaker4: that doesn't come out right.
speaker2: you gotta carry the one.
speaker4: still don't look right.
speaker2: it's right.
speaker1: billy?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: that's peter.
speaker1: i don't know how to say this delicately - but does - peter - need to be here?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what's with this on base percentage obsession? is that bill james
speaker2: you can call it billy beane for all i care.
speaker2: so here's who we want. one.
speaker2: jason's little brother jeremy.
speaker4: he never comes home from the games.
speaker3: billy, if i may, he's had his problems on the field -- not to mention his problems off the field -- not to mention he's getting a little thick around the middle -- there's the stuff with the weed. he's at strip joints...
speaker1: this guy could start the year with an agent and end up with a parole officer for christ's sake.
speaker2: his on-base percentage is all we're looking at now and he gets on base an awful lot for someone who only costs $285,000 a year.

speaker1: he can't catch a ball in the outfield. i've seen him lose a ball in the moonlight. 
speaker2: david justice.
speaker3: ten years ago he was a big name. he's going to really help our season tickets at the beginning of the year. but by june he's not going to be hitting his weight.
speaker4: he's 36!
speaker5: his legs are gone. he's a defensive liability. i question whether the bat speed is still there.
speaker6: steinbrenner is so at his decline he's willing to eat up half his contract to get rid of him.
speaker2: that's good.
speaker7: he's a fossil. with all due respect, bringing these three guys aboard is like putting bubble gum on a flat tire.
speaker3: and why do we want to be the ones to bail justice out of his contract? billy points at peter --
speaker8: he gets on base.
speaker3: i got 37 free agents who are better than those guys.
speaker2: scott hatteberg.

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: exactly. sounds like an oakland a already. yes, he's got a little damage in his elbow.
speaker3: some damage? he can't throw.
speaker2: we're not interested in him for his arm anymore than we wanted giambi for his.
speaker3: wait, you're talkin' about hatteberg at first?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: he's a career .260 hitter and the good part of his career is over.
speaker2: i say it's just starting.
speaker5: well, billy, you'll like the sound of this... i hear boston wants to cut him and no one wants to pick him up.
speaker2: that's good news for us. he's cheap.
speaker3: let me understand this. at first base you want a guy who's been cut from half of the minor league teams in the country due to irreparable nerve damage?
speaker2: he can't hit and he can't field, but what can he do?
speaker2: look at the piece of paper or i'm going to point at peter.

speaker1: he can get on base. 
speaker2: alright, so he walks a lot.
speaker1: he gets on base a lot, rocco. do i care if it's a walk or a hit?
speaker3: you do not.
speaker2: these three players, by your own admission, are defective in one way or another.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: you want to replace jason giambi with not one but three defective players?
speaker1: you got it.
speaker4: billy, we've all been busting our the last six and a half weeks to make this a better ball--
speaker1: grady, it's not a discussion.
speaker5: i think we're all losing sight of the fact that you're the general manager. you only have to answer to ownership and
speaker1: i didn't know followed baseball.
speaker5: i hope he does.

speaker1: billy, i just don't see it. 
speaker2: that's okay, wash. we won't be victimized by what we see anymore.
speaker1: i understand what you're saying about their averages, but there's something you're forgetting. none of them plays first base.
speaker2: i haven't forgotten that, wash. one of them is going to have to learn.
speaker1: learn.
speaker2: you're going to have to teach him.
speaker1: teach.
speaker2: instruct.
speaker1: which one?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: scott?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: it's billy beane. oakland a's.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: can we talk?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you want to invite me in?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm outside. i can see you in the window.
speaker3: honey?

speaker1: thank you, ma'am. 
speaker2: thank you, ma'am.
speaker1: you've played catcher your whole life?
speaker3: since i was 8.
speaker1: how's the elbow?

speaker1: good. real good. it's great. 
speaker1: i can't throw at all.
speaker2: yeah, don't worry about it. you've thrown your last baseball from behind the plate. i want you at first.
speaker1: i've only ever played catcher.
speaker2: you're not a catcher anymore. if you were, then mine wouldn't have been the only call you got when your contract expired at midnight.
speaker1: i appreciate it but--
speaker2: you're welcome.

speaker1: you don't know how to play first base. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: it's not that hard. tell him, wash.
speaker3: it's incredibly hard!
speaker1: anything worth doing is. wash is gonna teach you.
speaker2: wait a minute, what about--
speaker1: jason's gone, scott.

speaker1: i'm taking giambi's spot at first? what about the fans? 
speaker2: yeah, maybe i can teach one of them.
speaker3: the fans don't run--

speaker1: they're gonna hate me. 
speaker2: no, they're gonna hate him.
speaker3: the fans love me.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: hi.
speaker1: that's our youngest daughter.
speaker3: great.
speaker1: do you have kids?
speaker3: --yeah, i have a daughter.

speaker1: this is a contract for you to play baseball with the oakland a's. a copy's on its way to your agent. discuss it with your wife and let us know. thanks for the cookies, ma'am. 
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker1: merry christmas.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi, billy.
speaker1: she home?
speaker2: she's out, but she'll be home soon.

speaker1: yeah, no, don't worry about it sweetie. here's mom. 
speaker2: hey alan.
speaker1: come on in have a seat. want some coconut water? it's really refreshing.

speaker1: i'm all set, thanks. 
speaker2: what are you benching now?
speaker1: i don't keep count.
speaker2: well, whatever it is, it's working. you look good.
speaker2: i haven't got to see you since the playoffs in new york. that was heartbreaking, billy. we were rooting for you.
speaker1: yep.
speaker2: you know what i say?
speaker1: `em.
speaker1: i'm sorry alan, what do you say?
speaker2: no, i just wanted to say that a lot of teams don't get that far, and to make it that far is a really big accomplishment.
speaker1: so how is she?
speaker3: she's great. be here in a minute. how's the team shaping up?
speaker1: new beginnings. blue horizons.
speaker2: i read that you lost two players. damon

speaker1: and isringhausen. 
speaker2: sounds tough.
speaker1: so where is she?
speaker2: i just talked to her on her cell. she's just coming up the hill, she's two minutes away.
speaker1: you bought her a cell phone?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: at 12?
speaker2: just for emergencies. i'm sorry, we should have consulted you for that

speaker1: it's probably a good idea. 
speaker2: but actually i called you -
speaker1: let's go shopping.
speaker1: you want one with nylon strings, right?

speaker1: i like the red ones. 
speaker2: how about this?
speaker1: yeah, that's cool.
speaker2: let's try it out over here.
speaker2: casey.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you got good.
speaker1: i've just been playing a lot.
speaker2: that's... that's not the way most 12 year olds play.
speaker1: alan thinks i should have a better teacher.
speaker2: who's alan?
speaker2: oh, yeah. mom's alan. what's wrong with the teacher you have now?
speaker1: alan thinks i should be working more on technique so i don't learn bad habits.
speaker2: well, you seem to be doing just fine to me. do you like playing?
speaker1: i love it.

speaker1: that's so great. i'm so happy for you. the most important thing in life is to find something you love and do it well. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: okay, i'll talk to mom and alan. do you like that guitar?
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: that the one?
speaker2: yeah, i think so.
speaker1: let's get it. let's get it now.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: merry christmas.

speaker1: ...if you're a real baseball fan with a good memory you might remember that billy beane was taken in the first round of the amateur draft back in 1980, separated from all-star outfielder daryl strawberry by only 14 picks, so it just goes to show... 
speaker2: strike!

speaker1: how'd it go? 
speaker2: how'd what go?
speaker1: hatteberg.
speaker2: he can barely hold a baseball. but he's our guy now.
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: that is kevin youkilis. this is the guy we want more than anyone else in the world.
speaker1: he can't run, throw or field. but he walks more than anyone in baseball except barry bonds. take out intentional walks and it's more than bonds. he's the greek of walks.

speaker1: i tried to get shapiro to draft him last june. he said he waddled like a duck. boston took him. boston won't let him go yet. they're going to wait and see. 
speaker1: you all right, billy?
speaker2: billy?
speaker3: can we talk a minute?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker4: yeah.

speaker1: your boy and i had a talk while you were in tacoma. i didn't like much of what i heard. 
speaker2: no?
speaker1: no. you got a kid in there with a yale economics degree and a scout out here with 29 years baseball experience and you're listening to the wrong one.
speaker2: i don't listen to anyone, you know that.
speaker1: this isn't a joke.
speaker2: i'm not joking.

speaker1: this isn't how you run a ball club, with a computer. you know that. you're a baseball man. there are intangibles that only a scout can see in a player that you're not going to pick up with just numbers, with someone who doesn't play the game, who knows nothing about the game but how to feed numbers into a computer. 
speaker2: that's what we're doing. that's exactly what we're doing.
speaker1: if this is what baseball is, if it's not kirk gibson going up to the plate on two bad legs because the manager felt in his heart that he had one swing left in that body... a computer wouldn't do that. they would have had him sitting up in the stands.
speaker2: a computer doesn't romanticize the sport. leave that for the fans.
speaker1: well, romance and the fans, it's called a love affair with the game and it's been going on for one hundred and fifty years.
speaker2: i don't want to hurt you love affair with the game. just because we've been doing it one way for a hundred and fifty years doesn't mean we've been doing it right. you have any idea how long people thought the sun revolved around the earth? to your eyes it looks like that's what's happening.
speaker1: you're saying everybody's been wrong? everybody?
speaker1: are you saying everybody's been wrong?
speaker2: yes. maybe.

speaker1: yes, and i've thought so my whole life. 
speaker2: --we're gonna see if you're right?! this is about you and your some scouts from 20 years ago called it wrong, okay? they thought you were a ballplayer and you weren't. as you know, it happens. don't take it out on--
speaker1: i'm not--taking it out on--
speaker2: i'm trying to help, okay, i'm saying--
speaker1: no, you're not saying anything to me right now.
speaker1: grady, you don't have special powers. you don't have the ability to look at a guy and "just know" because you're a scout with special powers. i've watched you sit at kitchen tables for years and tell the parents of a 17 year old kid, "trust me, when i know, i know, and when it comes to your son, i know" and you don't. we're shopping in a new store--full of complicated statistical analysis and equations and i get that it turns your world upside down but on base percentage-- our best chance to score on our budget isn't getting a 6'4" adonis to the plate, it's getting a 5'10" washout who's already at first base.
speaker2: may i speak?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: major league baseball and its fans will be happy to hand you and google boy your heads if you keep doing what you're doing here, i don't give a about friendship this situation or the past. major league baseball thinks the way i think. you're not gonna win. and i'll give you a nickel's worth of free advice.

speaker1: i'm not gonna fire you, grady. 
speaker2: go yourself, billy.
speaker1: well now maybe. grady takes off.
speaker1: eric. you never even played high school ball, right? the young scout shakes his head, embarrassed.
speaker1: grady's gone. you're the new head scout.
speaker1: don't try to explain things to scouts. they're not programmed to get it. it's just us.

speaker1: billy gives an interview to a sports reporter. 
speaker2: billy, will the fans still come out now that you've lost giambi?
speaker3: i don't know, graham. will they listen to your insipid radio show?

speaker1: well, we didn't pay him for his defense. 
speaker1: that's the way, hatte. pickin' machine.
speaker1: none of those broke 85.

speaker1: chad i have high hopes for. 
speaker1: it just got away from him.
speaker1: he's still got it.

speaker1: it's the first day of week one. there's nothing to judge yet. 
speaker2: i can judge it and so can you. first base is the moon to him.
speaker1: it wasn't to giambi? he's the worst first baseman in baseball. what do you think of him, wash?
speaker3: the nicest way i can put it is, he lacks confidence.
speaker1: work with him wash.
speaker3: i'll do that, billy, but we've got pena who can play first. and he's looking pretty good out there.
speaker1: i want to make it work with hatte, wash.

speaker1: not to mention we already have a first baseman. 
speaker2: a rookie first baseman. it's not the same.
speaker1: number 11 on the top 100 prospects list.
speaker2: lists aren't baseball.
speaker1: catchers at first base aren't baseball.
speaker2: hatteberg will be fine, art.
speaker1: he will be fine, you're right. pinch hitting while pena plays first base.

speaker1: how long does it take? 
speaker2: when i first started these things? it was like a half hour process. now i can knock these suckers out in 30 seconds, no problem.

speaker1: is a dollar, mang. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: always been like that here.
speaker2: you're kidding me, right?
speaker1: welcome to oakland.
speaker3: excuse me, mr. beane.
speaker4: hey chad.
speaker3: i hope i'm not disturbing you.
speaker4: you're not, what's up?
speaker3: i wanted to say thanks for the opportunity.
speaker4: it's gonna work out well for both of us.

speaker1: nobody in the major league ever took me seriously. 
speaker2: nobody?
speaker1: just you, sir.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: it's a big day, you won't forget it.
speaker1: i'm going to pray for you and your family.

speaker1: hey, great to see you. thanks for coming out. got a good box? you want a picture? sure, let me step in there. great, big smiles now. big smiles. know what i like about opening day? everyone's even. thank you. you all enjoy the game. billy gets his picture taken with kids from an area 
speaker1: hey, how you guys doing. so you won? that's great. what position are you? how's your fastball? 92? alright, should we get a pic?

speaker1: with the departure of head scout grady fuson and a roster that i'll describe as unusual, if not eccentric, you have to wonder what billy beane is thinking. 
speaker2: hi, i'm elizabeth.
speaker3: hi. tara. which is yours?
speaker2: scott hatteberg. catcher - actually first base - actually we don't know. yours?

speaker1: mr. beane? 
speaker1: he's a saint.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: are they picking up your option for next year? a beat. 
speaker2: i brought it up to them during the off- season, and i still do not have my option.
speaker1: are you frustrated?
speaker2: i think it's fair to say that.

speaker1: okay, good. 
speaker1: i'm heading in.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i don't watch the games.
speaker2: is this a joke?
speaker1: i don't know what you're miming.

speaker1: i'm miming "you don't watch the games?!" 
speaker2: this is my team. and they've taken the field. they're world class athletes who are fighting for their lives and i stand with them. except not literally so i need you to text me what art does.

speaker1: yeah. i should have made you a bigger part of the conversation, i should have had you in the scout meetings from the first day, that way you would have understood this better and that was another mistake, i take full responsibility. 
speaker2: what are you trying to say?
speaker1: it doesn't matter what moves i make if you don't play the team the way i need them played.

speaker1: why wasn't hatteberg at first? 
speaker2: because he can't play first.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker2: not my first baseball game.

speaker1: scott hatteberg can't hit. 
speaker2: he gets on--

speaker1: and his defense-- 
speaker2: still keeps us in the plus column and we only need to be 7 over 500.
speaker1: anything else?
speaker2: yeah, i would have rather seen chad bradford in there at the end than magnante.

speaker1: i don't care about righty/lefty. 
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: this is about your contract?
speaker2: no, you've made it clear what you think about that. this is about you doing your job and me doing mine. mine's being left alone to manage the beer league team you assembled for me.
speaker1: i didn't assemble them for you, i assembled them for me.
speaker2: no

speaker1: i want you to go on the road with the team. 
speaker2: you don't go on the road with the team.
speaker1: that's why i want you to do it.
speaker2: why don't you?

speaker1: i don't want to develop personal relationships. i need to trade them, send them down and sometimes cut them. you should learn how to do that by the way. 
speaker2: the only way i'd have to cut a player is if you oh come on!
speaker1: yeah, let's practice.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i'm a player, cut me from the roster.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do it.
speaker2: this is stupid.
speaker1: man-up, yale.
speaker2: fine. billy, would you have a seat for a moment, i need to talk to you.
speaker1: i'm already sitting.
speaker2: i was pretending you weren't sitting.
speaker1: but i am. keep going.
speaker2: this is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball.
speaker1: you got that from bull durham?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: hitting a curve ball is the hardest thing there is to do in baseball but go ahead. 
speaker2: you've been a huge part of this team but decisions have to be made that are best for the team, i'm sure you can understand that.
speaker1: you're cutting me?
speaker2: i'm really sorry.
speaker1: i just bought a house here.
speaker2: well...
speaker1: well? that's all you have to say? my kids just started at a new school, they made friends.
speaker2: that's--i'd leave them in school, you don't want to take them out in the middle

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: are you you or the player?
speaker1: i'm me. you're talking about kids and schools and you should've been out of the room three minutes ago.
speaker2: shouldn't i tell them that they'll always be a part of the a's family?
speaker1: that makes me feel so good i'm thinking of burning your house down with you in it. these are professional baseball players. you just do it. "peter, i need to let you go. jack's office'll handle the paperwork."

speaker1: that's it? 
speaker2: would you rather get one bullet in the head or five in the chest and bleed to death?
speaker1: those are my only choices?
speaker2: go on the road with the team.

speaker1: how come your boss doesn't travel with the team? 
speaker2: he doesn't like to mingle with the players.
speaker1: makes us easier to cut?
speaker1: he's gonna make some moves if we keep losing.
speaker1: how come soda costs a dollar in the clubhouse?
speaker2: billy likes to keep the money on the field.
speaker1: soda money?

speaker1: peter doesn't say anything... 
speaker2: where on the field is the dollar i pay for soda?
speaker3: it's hard to see.
speaker2: alright.
speaker4: the a's begin their first road trip of the season having dropped 7 of their first 11 games at home and their schedule doesn't get any easier from here. if there's a bright spot it's rookie first baseman carlos pena.
speaker5: with the a's getting off to a miserable start/13 of their last 20/17 of their last 25/etc...

speaker1: hey, aren't you billy beane? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: shouldn't you be at the game?

speaker1: nope. 
speaker2: hey, dad.
speaker1: hey, honey... i'm glad to see you.

speaker1: do you want strawberry or vanilla? 
speaker2: both.
speaker1: don't tell your mother.
speaker1: if you could only have one ice cream for the rest of your life, which would you choose?

speaker1: vanilla. definitely vanilla. 
speaker2: interesting. chocolate sauce?
speaker1: yup.
speaker1: dad... if you could choose between the power of invisibility or flight, which would you choose?
speaker2: flight. yeah, i'd wanna fly. you?
speaker1: i think i'd want invisibility.
speaker2: really? why?
speaker1: i don't know. people wouldn't notice me as much.
speaker2: why wouldn't you want people to notice you?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: well, i guess you could sneak up on people. or eavesdrop on their conversations. you could be a spy.
speaker2: so how's school?
speaker1: my teacher's kinda mean. she doesn't like us to ask questions.
speaker2: what kind of teacher doesn't let you ask questions?
speaker1: i know, right? mom was mad, too. she thinks maybe i should be home schooled.

speaker1: wouldn't you miss your friends? 
speaker2: yeah. but the other kids are mean.
speaker1: there are always going to be bullies. try not to let them get to you. but let me know if it's becoming a problem.
speaker2: can i ask you a question? are you still chewing tobacco?
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: please stop.
speaker1: i know, it's terrible. look, i promise i'll quit in november if you promise not to worry about it.
speaker2: pinkie swear?
speaker1: pinkie swear.

speaker1: alright. be good. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i feel like--
speaker2: you feel like what?
speaker1: i don't know, did we talk enough this time?
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: anything. did we talk about the things you want to talk about, did we have fun?
speaker2: yeah!?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i love you, dad.
speaker1: you're doing it right now.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're worrying about me.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: do i look like i'm worried?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: `cause you're getting on an airplane and those things crash all the time. will you please stop worrying about your father? you're a kid, i can't have it. 
speaker2: okay. can i worry about the airplane now though?
speaker1: absolutely.
speaker3: we're all set.
speaker1: great.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker1: no! why is he in there?!
speaker1: no no. i'm alright.

speaker1: art howe is the only manager in baseball who has to think about pinch running his leadoff hitter. 
speaker2: why do you do it?
speaker3: i can't not do it.
speaker2: how do you do it? every ball park's different.
speaker3: i take that into account and adjust the distance of my steps.
speaker2: exactly seventy-four, from the pen to the mound.

speaker1: steve. 
speaker2: billy.
speaker1: you remember peter.
speaker2: peter. guys, give me some idea of what's going on out there.

speaker1: we're not scared. 
speaker2: 3 out of 17 games. 3. we're getting crucified in the press. what makes you think this is gonna turn around?
speaker1: because i believe in what we're doing. i believe the numbers. i believe the record doesn't accurately reflect the team and where we're going to be at the end of the season. peter and i feel very strongly that we need to stick to the game plan, and you can tell your partners to start booking their tickets to the playoffs.
speaker2: billy, look, you've got guys who are nearly crippled, who couldn't get hired as an usher in a ballpark now playing on the team. give me something i can go back to these guys with and feel like i have the confidence that you're gonna turn these things around.
speaker1: with all due respect you asked me to build a team with shoelaces and gum wrappers and we've done it.
speaker2: you haven't done it yet billy.
speaker1: and it will pay off. stick with us. suffer the blows. listen, life with no money means we're gonna have to suffer a few embarrassments along the way, but we are okay in the end.
speaker2: billy, there's a lot of money at stake here.

speaker1: give me a date, give me a time frame. 
speaker2: where do we expect to be mid july all star break?
speaker3: our goal and our expectation by the all star break is to be within seven games of first place.
speaker2: that'll keep us in the hunt.
speaker3: and that would be this working exceptionally well.
speaker1: 7 within 500. by july. and what's going to keep us from getting there?
speaker2: nothing steve.
speaker1: nothing. we're 3 for 17 right now. you've got to be able to give me a little bit more to go back to my partners with.
speaker2: listen, you hired me to do this job and that's where we're going to be.
speaker1: that's not good enough.
speaker2: well, let's go buy barry bonds, then. this is the team we've got and this is the team we'll win with.

speaker1: billy, put yourself in my shoes. what do you imagine is going to happen if things don't turn around? 
speaker2: it's very clear, steve. if i put myself in your shoes, i'd spend another 20 million on the team.
speaker1: we don't have another 20 million
speaker2: i'm just kidding, steve, i'm just kidding. we've got the team.
speaker1: i gotta be honest with you, billy, i wish you had a little more worry and a little more fear. because things aren't going in our direction right now.
speaker2: 162 games steve.
speaker1: let's hope the next 30 are better than the last 30.
speaker2: i don't need to hope.
speaker1: all right fellas. let's go try and win one. we're in may, we've got til july.

speaker1: i want dye in right, justice dh-ing, pena on the bench, hatteberg at first and anyone but magnante first out of the pen. 
speaker2: you want pena on the bench?
speaker1: that's right. so that you can play hatteberg.
speaker2: hatte - as opposed to the guy who's going to win rookie of the year.
speaker1: no, hatte - as opposed to the guy who gets on base less. pena getting voted rookie of the year and the a's making the playoffs are two entirely different--
speaker2: pena's not just the best first baseman on the roster, he's the only first baseman on the roster and the most valuable member on this team.
speaker1: not according to, what do you call `em, facts.

speaker1: his fielding doesn't matter. 
speaker2: it does matter and pena only has one error in 70 games.
speaker1: not only is that number statistically insignificant but it's also subjective. it measures what someone did against what someone else thought they were supposed to do.

speaker1: part of the conversation? i've heard enough of the conversation and i disagree with you, plain and simple. moreover, i strongly believe that you're in the middle of experiencing some sort of personal crisis and you seem indifferent to the fact that you're taking a whole organization down with you. i'm playing my team in a way i can explain in job interviews this winter. 
speaker2: hatte, not pena.

speaker1: it's just one game. 
speaker2: that's the point, you think?
speaker1: the point is always tomorrow's game.
speaker2: no, the point - as you said - is to win. i don't like sharing the cellar with texas, do you?

speaker1: i'm doing the best i can with what i've got. i'm playing the players i've got. 
speaker2: i'm through talking.

speaker1: yeah! 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: getting swept by the red sox at home. having long lead off the ninth with a triple in a one-run game and not being able to score a runner from first with nobody out, is that fun?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: then what the are you having fun for?!
speaker2: this is what losing sounds like.

speaker1: ...point 3-5 below the al average field which isn't bad. 
speaker1: billy?

speaker1: cruz -- .283, .347, .476. stevens -- .244, .349, .560. miner -- .272, .349, .499. hanson -- .280, .363, .450. baretta -- .273, .354, .497. durazo -- .292, .395, .621. what do you think? 
speaker1: billy?
speaker2: i don't know where i am.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: i missed my exit.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: that was too abrupt.

speaker1: no. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if baseball doesn't work out. have you thought about what you might do?
speaker1: the game's only been over for three hours, i haven't had that much time to think about it.
speaker2: sure.
speaker2: maybe real estate.
speaker1: i'll be honest, if i don't make it in baseball i don't think i'm going to be able to afford much real estate.

speaker1: i know what you meant. 
speaker2: it's just a slump, right?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you're saying every scout was wrong?
speaker1: you're kind of saying it too.

speaker1: get me wade. 
speaker2: why.
speaker1: get him.
speaker2: why.
speaker1: get him.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: ed. billy. i need some help on defense and i'm willing to trade jeremy giambi for it.
speaker3: no, you -
speaker2: ignoring peter; to
speaker4: who you got?

speaker1: let me think. 
speaker2: what are you doing? jeremy's doing

speaker1: cleaning house. 
speaker2: maybe?
speaker1: maybe what?
speaker2: no. mabry.
speaker1: hang on.
speaker3: mabry?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker1: yes, you do.
speaker4: runs hot and cold, billy. impossible to know what we're going to get. he's a shoot. he's exactly the kind of player we're not looking for.
speaker1: he'll be fine, ed.
speaker2: why do i get the feeling you're picking my pocket?
speaker1: i'm not picking your pocket, you're picking mine. giambi's name alone is worth more than mabry.
speaker2: you realize -

speaker1: i do. his career is stagnant, to put it nicely. can we say it's done in theory and start drawing up paperwork? 
speaker2: okay. but -
speaker1: great.
speaker3: i think he was going to say something else.
speaker1: peter. rule number 3: when you get the answer you're looking for - hang up. that's done, and in a minute pena's going to detroit.
speaker3: i don't think you want to do that.
speaker1: art can't put him at first if he's playing for the tigers and i want hatte in the lineup tonight.
speaker3: maybe you should think about this.
speaker1: what am i missing?
speaker3: it's just a very hard move to explain. people are going to think you've lost your mind.
speaker1: why's that a problem peter?
speaker3: don't make an emotional decision billy.
speaker4: david dombrowski's on 3.

speaker1: billy picks up the call. 
speaker2: sometimes you have to shake it up.
speaker3: probably an all star.
speaker2: he's an all star dave...

speaker1: trying to slow it 
speaker2: billy, peã±a is an all star. if you dump him, and if hatte doesn't work out, you know, this is the kind of decision that gets you fired.
speaker3: why you worrying about my job?
speaker3: you worried about my job or yours?
speaker1: i'm worried about yours.
speaker3: well you should be worrying about yours because if this thing we're doing don't work... neither of us have jobs.
speaker1: that's probably true.

speaker1: in which case i'm a 44 year old guy with a high-school diploma and a daughter who i'd like to be able to put through college one day. you're 25 years old with a degree from yale and a pretty impressive apprenticeship. 
speaker1: i don't think we're asking the right question. i think the question we're supposed to be asking now is, do you believe in what we're doing or not?
speaker1: it's a problem that you think we need to explain ourselves. don't... to anyone. i'm going to see this through, for better or for worse. just tell me, do you project we'll win more games with peã±a or hatteberg on first?
speaker2: it's close billy but theoretically hatteberg.
speaker1: what are we talking about then?
speaker1: dave.

speaker1: that was thoughtful. 
speaker2: yeah. okay. you gotta tell pena to pack.
speaker1: you want me to tell pena he's been traded?
speaker2: be a man.

speaker1: what about jeremy? am i telling him, too. 
speaker2: no. i'll do that.

speaker1: hey, carlos. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: can i get a moment with you?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: okay, maybe we can talk over here.
speaker1: have a seat.
speaker1: so, um, carlos, you've been traded to the tigers. this is the number of jay palmer, their travel secretary. he's expecting your call. he'll help you arrange travel to detroit.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: cool.

speaker1: mind if i have a seat. 
speaker2: please.
speaker1: you can't start pena at first tonight, you'll have to start hatteberg.
speaker2: i don't want to go 15 rounds, billy, the line-up card is mine and that's all.
speaker1: the line-up card is definitely yours, i'm just saying you can't start pena at first.
speaker2: i am starting pena at first.
speaker1: i don't think so, he plays for the detroit tigers now.
speaker2: you traded pena?!
speaker1: along with german, hiljus and jeremy giambi.
speaker2: you are outside your mind.
speaker1: jeremy, come on in.
speaker1: this is ed wade's number. you know him?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: phillies general manager. real nice guy. give him a call - he's expecting it - say hello - then talk to futterman about arranging a flight for you.
speaker1: the what?
speaker2: the flight. to philadelphia.
speaker2: it's been a real pleasure, jeremy. i mean that. you're a great ballplayer and great guy.
speaker2: we're going to miss you.
speaker2: adkins is gone, too.
speaker3: you're killing this team.
speaker2: art? i can do this all day long.
speaker3: what are you looking at?
speaker4: i'm not looking at anything.
speaker3: you went along with this? you agree with this
speaker4: a hundred percent.

speaker1: keep your head up, okay? it's part of the business. you're gonna be a great player, okay? 
speaker2: thank you, man.
speaker1: don't let this bother you at all.
speaker3: nice to meet you, brother. take care and... bless you, man.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker4: you're the best first baseman here. it's not right, carlos.
speaker2: thank you, hattie.
speaker4: yeah.

speaker1: scottie h.! 
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: go out and field some grounders.

speaker1: no more bunts. 
speaker2: no more bunts?
speaker1: a bunt is an out. you're paid to avoid outs, not make them.
speaker2: a bunt isn't an out. it's a sacrifice.
speaker1: a bunt is for pitchers and weak hitters. you're not a pitcher, chavvie, so what are you saying?
speaker1: until the third out, anything can happen. after the third out, it's over. you gotta protect your outs like they're your children. every out's precious, don't give `em away.

speaker1: another thing -- you should see more pitches. we wanna get into their bullpen. deep into their bullpen. we want to see 100 pitches by the end of the 5th inning. you wanna get your at-bats off their 10th and 11th pitcher. 
speaker2: you want us to walk more. how much more?
speaker1: pete?
speaker3: at least once every ten at bats.
speaker2: or...?
speaker1: triple-a sacramento's only 80 miles away. and there's no flights.
speaker1: don't look at him. here's the deal. i'm not interested in what you think you know about baseball, or what you think i don't know about it. i'm not interested in guts or heart or determination or anything else the fans or your mothers love about you. i'm interested in you getting on base. if you do that, we win. if you don't, we lose. and i hate to lose. i hate to lose more than i need to win. there's a difference.
speaker3: every at bat is like a hand of blackjack. every card that's dealt, your odds completely change. for instance, every first pitch strike, your batting average goes down about 75 points.
speaker1: 75 points.
speaker3: 75 points. every first pitch ball, it goes up about the same amount. so you gotta lay off the first pitch.

speaker1: first pitch curveball or first pitch fastball? 
speaker2: first pitch period. when you swing at the first pitch you're batting .140.
speaker3: we want to see more pitches.
speaker4: how many pitches?
speaker2: every starter, we want to see 100 pitches by the 5th inning.
speaker4: so... 5, 6 pitches per at bat?
speaker2: yeah. i mean, hatteberg drained 38 pitches.
speaker3: and byrnsie, you're hackin' at everything. you're all squirrely out there. wait for your pitch, man. this is a war of attrition. there's no clock on this thing. wait `em out. let them make the mistakes. and when your enemy's making mistakes -- don't interrupt them.
speaker2: basically, these are all your at bats. this is you versus righties, you versus lefties... and then, of course, all your count knowledge, okay? in an 0-0 count you're batting .290. in an 0-1 you average .238. in a 0-2, .159. when you're 1-0, you're batting .324.
speaker5: not really.
speaker2: i know, it's a lot of math. when your first pitch is a strike, your batting average goes down about 70 points.

speaker1: when it's a ball, it goes up about 30. if you draw a ball on your first pitch, you're unstoppable. if you strike on the first pitch, you might as well be jumping off cliff. i'm trying to get you to lay off the first pitch. 
speaker2: but i'm a first pitch hitter. i like to swing at fastballs.
speaker1: and that's the way you've been trained. but it's a habit we'd like to break you from. we're trying to design the game to your strengths. this has nothing to do with you being a great hitter -- you're a great hitter. we just want to get you on base.
speaker2: but if i get my pitch, i'm gonna swing at it, no matter what the count is.
speaker1: i'm not worried about you crushing the ball out of the park. i just want you to lay off anything that will result in a strike.
speaker2: i guess i'll have to watch some film and take a look at it.
speaker1: absolutely. the video room is open to you any time, i'm always available.

speaker1: -- but seriously. make him use up all his bullets. 
speaker2: yeah, make him work.
speaker3: so... mr. beane?
speaker2: billy's fine.

speaker1: nah, make it mr. beane. 
speaker2: mr. beane --
speaker1: i'm screwin' with you, haddie.
speaker2: so we just don't steal?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker3: that's what i do. that's what you pay me to do.
speaker1: no, i pay you to get on first, not get thrown out at second.
speaker3: i don't get thrown out much.
speaker1: i don't hit on 17 at the blackjack table, but if i did, the odds would be the same.
speaker4: you've actually gotten caught 6 out of 17 tries this season.
speaker3: i get 11 of 17. that's not bad.
speaker1: you just handed them an out. protect your outs like they're your children. there's no clock on this game. until the third out, anything can happen. get on base and let the next guy move you up. pass the torch, pass the torch. we're like a machine. a run making machine.
speaker5: what's your biggest fear?

speaker1: a baseball being hit in my general direction. 
speaker2: that's funny.
speaker2: no, seriously.
speaker1: seriously.

speaker1: hey, dave. i've been thinking... i want you to -- 
speaker2: you gonna teach me something?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i've never seen a gm talk to players.
speaker1: you've never seen a gm who was a player.
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: is there a problem?
speaker2: it's okay, man. i know your routine. it's a patter, it's rap, it's for effect. that's okay. but it's for them, it's not for me.
speaker1: you're special?
speaker2: you're paying me 7 million bucks so i guess i am a little.
speaker1: as a matter of fact i'm not paying you 7 million bucks, david. the yankees are paying half your salary. that's what the new york yankees think of you.

speaker1: they're paying you three and a half million dollars to play against them. 
speaker2: where are you going with this, billy?
speaker1: you're almost 37, dave. almost as old as me. let's be honest with each other about what we each want. i want to milk the last ounce of baseball you have left in you, and you want to stay in the show. so let's do that. i'm not paying you to be the player you used to be, i'm paying you to be the player you are now. you're smart, you know what's going on here. i need you to set an example for the younger guys. take a leadership role. justice just studies him ... then nods.
speaker1: we're cool?
speaker2: we're cool.
speaker1: all right.
speaker1: you know -- the yankees are coming to town. if it were me -- i'd want to take that three point five and shove it up their ass. but i'm a competitor.
speaker2: you know, i got a couple world series rings. i think i'm a pretty good competitor, too.
speaker1: you want another one?

speaker1: tejada taking a big lead off first, eyeing the steal-- 
speaker2: don't do it, migs.
speaker3: and crack--a base hit sends tejada to 3rd.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: did you hear that? 
speaker2: i heard 7 in a row.
speaker2: can you show me righty-lefty matchups for the division and overall versus mariners?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: voos. 
speaker2: billy.
speaker1: pointing back down
speaker3: that smell is getting worse.
speaker2: i'm on it, billy.
speaker1: what are we doing tonight?
speaker4: splitting the plate in half.
speaker1: both sides.
speaker5: huddy, you gotta mix it up tonight.

speaker1: yes sir. 
speaker2: you guys stop distracting him.
speaker2: chavvie -- you couldn't hit that with a boat paddle last night. you gotta see more pitches. patience.
speaker3: you got it, billy.
speaker2: hey david --
speaker4: hey, man.
speaker2: great at bats. really. quality.
speaker4: thank you.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: how are ya?
speaker1: good. you knocked.
speaker2: i did, and i hope you take it as a show of respect.
speaker1: we'll see.

speaker1: you look good. 
speaker2: we've won 7 in a row, what am i doing wrong now?
speaker1: absolutely nothing.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: but.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: magnante's having some head problems.
speaker2: head problems.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: he's 37 and he's got three blown saves in two weeks. everytime he winds up he's thinking he's about to throw the last pitch of his life. so he grips it a little hard.
speaker2: i appreciate this.
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: but i know my bullpen.
speaker1: yes you do. yes you absolutely do. no question about it. except not really.
speaker2: yeah?

speaker1: if we have a lead late in the game and they have runners on base, i'd rather not see magnante out of the bullpen. 
speaker2: i'll make that decision when the time comes.
speaker1: that's what you should do. baseball's a game of situations and you should make the decision when the time comes. except you should make it now.

speaker1: don't bring magnante out if we've gotta hold a late lead with runners on. he's 37, he's scared shitless of being the guy who blows this winning streak. 
speaker2: you think a lot of yourself, don't you?
speaker1: i......think the regular amount of myself. magnante on the other hand, he doesn't think very much of himself at all, and when he tightens up we've got ourselves an adventure. so i'd like to see chad bradford out of the pen tonight when we're in, let's say, just to make it easier for you, any situation. righty/lefty, two outs, no outs, the umpires have decided we're going to finish the game by playing darts, whatever. bradford's the first guy out of the pen.
speaker1: okay?
speaker2: i could've coached you up, you know.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: you think you went as far as you could have?

speaker1: you can't be in there, billy. 
speaker1: billy?

speaker1: just nod a little bit--not too much--like i'm assuring you you didn't just make a calamitous vocational decision. 
speaker2: players and coaches only, billy.
speaker1: ignoring the umpire-- still quietly to
speaker3: remember that in about four seconds--
speaker1: --yeah there it is. we're the lead story on sports center now so let me be brief. first of all, that was an awfully costly fuck-you, wouldn't you say?

speaker1: second of all, genius, those boos? 
speaker2: come on, billy.
speaker1: get me this game back.

speaker1: you want one, billy? 
speaker2: i'm good, voos. thanks.

speaker1: suzanne, get shapiro on the phone. 
speaker2: are you thinking rincon?
speaker1: yeah, he's lost faith for the season. i think he's gonna dump him.
speaker2: hardcore.
speaker3: shapiro on two.
speaker1: mark. billy. let's be honest. a premiere setup man is not going to get you any closer to the playoffs.
speaker4: are you referring to rincon?
speaker1: he's a luxury you can't afford.
speaker4: and you can? there's half a million on his contract and at least one other suitor.
speaker1: by at least one, you mean one? who is it?
speaker4: i'd rather not say.

speaker1: san francisco. 
speaker2: i'll call you back.
speaker1: what do you think we can get for magnante?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: what's left on venafro's contract?
speaker1: two-seventy-five.
speaker2: suzanne -- get me sabean.
speaker2: if we can get san francisco interested in venafro, shapiro's only got one buyer for rincon.
speaker1: us.
speaker4: on three.
speaker2: sabes. billy. you like venafro. i can let you have him for almost nothing.
speaker5: why would you do that, billy?
speaker2: because i'm amazing.
speaker5: uh-huh.
speaker2: all i want is a couple of bucks and a sweetener. throw in, say...

speaker1: billy snaps his fingers at peter -- 
speaker2: anderson.
speaker3: anderson.
speaker4: i like anderson.
speaker3: no, you don't. i don't even like him. i don't know why i'm doing this -- but let's do it anyway. venafro for michaelson?
speaker2: anderson.
speaker3: anderson. see, i don't even know his name.
speaker4: i'll think --
speaker3: think about it and call me back.
speaker3: get shapiro back on.
speaker5: two!

speaker1: you can't afford him, billy. 
speaker2: you sure about that? i get the impression the market for rincon is softening. i could be wrong. call whoever's interested and make sure they're still interested. and call me back.

speaker1: what about the mets for venafro? 
speaker2: you just offered him to the giants.
speaker1: suzanne -- steve phillips! get me steve phillips.
speaker1: between bonds, nen, kent and snow, they're never gonna do it.
speaker2: totally agree.
speaker1: we just need them to cool on rincon.
speaker3: phillips on two.
speaker1: steve-o. billy. i hear you're looking for a left-handed reliever. what do you think of venafro? i can make it quick and easy for you.
speaker4: what's the angle?
speaker1: no angle.
speaker4: who am i getting fleeced for?
speaker1: hang on a second.
speaker2: bennett maybe?
speaker1: how old?
speaker2: twenty-six.

speaker1: twenty-six and in double-a? forget it. 
speaker2: duncan? no. cerda? no. furbush?
speaker1: furbush?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: eckerton? eckerton. eckerton, that's the guy.
speaker1: eckerton.
speaker3: eckerton? i like eckerton.
speaker1: you don't even know who eckerton is.
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: is venafro hurt?
speaker2: oh, hi.
speaker1: no, he's not hurt. he's fine. this is just a situation for us.
speaker2: it's steve.
speaker3: last couple of times out, he got hammered.
speaker1: i'm on with steve.

speaker1: steve schott. 
speaker2: tell him to hold. look. steve. here's the deal. i'm being straight with you. i'm getting rincon. it's a done deal. it's done.
speaker3: i heard the giants --
speaker2: no, the giants want venafro. and i told them they can have him for michaelson...

speaker1: -- but i'd rather deal with you. because you can give me eckerton and two hundred and twenty-five thousand cash and the giants can't. 
speaker2: yes, i understand it's impolite to keep you holding.
speaker3: i'll think about it.
speaker1: of course. think. but whoever calls me back first gets venafro.
speaker2: he hung up.
speaker1: if you could have the power of flight or invisibility, which would you choose?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: invisibility or flight? 
speaker2: invisibility.
speaker1: that's what casey said. why?
speaker2: you'd have total access. besides, everyone else would choose flight.
speaker1: why isn't anybody calling?
speaker3: shapiro's on two.
speaker1: great. lemme talk to my owner. call you right back.
speaker1: get steve.
speaker2: phillips or schott?
speaker1: why would i call phillips back? schott.
speaker2: right.
speaker2: mr. schott, it's peter brand. sorry i left you on hold. billy asked me to call you back. he's on another line.
speaker1: tell him we need two hundred and twenty- five grand for rincon.

speaker1: billy says he needs two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars for ricardo rincon. please? 
speaker1: yes, i added the please. no.
speaker2: tell him i'll pay it, but when i sell him next year for twice that, i keep the money.
speaker1: billy says he'll pay for rincon himself, sell him next year, and keep the profit.
speaker1: okay. thank you.
speaker1: he says he'll pay for rincon.
speaker2: great! what are we forgetting?
speaker2: get me shapiro!
speaker2: wait, never mind!
speaker3: mark. yeah, it's billy. here's the deal. i don't want rincon pitching against me tonight. tell him to change his clothes. i got you the money and i accept your gratitude. it's done.
speaker2: we gotta let someone go. it's mags.
speaker1: i call not it.

speaker1: billy dials an extension. 
speaker2: art. billy. the good news is ricardo rincon's heading over to the clubhouse. the bad news is you got to tell mags he threw his last pitch for the oakland a's last night.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: what do you mean, no.
speaker3: no, as in no. i'm not doing it. you do it. you did it, so you do it.
speaker4: it's not the phone's fault. suzanne, we're gonna need a new speakerphone.
speaker2: we gotta catch mags before rincon comes over.

speaker1: -- i need you to stop getting dressed. 
speaker2: traded?

speaker1: billy shakes his head, no. 
speaker2: i'm sorry for the news. i know it hurts.
speaker2: mike. i can't have 26 guys in the clubhouse.
speaker3: alright.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker2: hey, ricardo.
speaker4: hola, senor.
speaker2: hola. hey, i know this must seem a bit sudden, but the oakland a's have been trying to get you for a long time. you're gonna love it here. the guys are fun.
speaker5: muy divertido.
speaker4: i pitch tonight?
speaker2: i don't know if you're gonna pitch tonight. but you're on our team tonight.
speaker4: i no wanna pitch tonight.
speaker2: right. so... where you from?
speaker4: veracruz, mexico.

speaker1: billy, tara and casey at dinner. 
speaker2: tara and me were thinking --
speaker3: dad... tara and i --
speaker4: she is correct.
speaker2: tara and i were thinking about going to point reyes to the beach.
speaker3: that'd be fun.
speaker4: me go, too?
speaker2: and i'll work on my grammar.
speaker3: dad... are you going to lose your job?
speaker2: what? where did you hear that, honey?
speaker3: the internet.
speaker2: no, i'm not going to lose my job. don't go on the internet or watch tv or read the papers or talk to people.

speaker1: i'm not talking to people, i'm just reading stuff. 
speaker2: don't worry. you don't believe me? ask tara.
speaker3: he's not . your dad is a brilliant man. he's the best gm in baseball.
speaker1: but say that you did -- just saying -- would you have to move away?
speaker2: no, honey. absolutely not. and even if i did, i'm not going anywhere. i told you not to worry about me. people say a lot of crazy things and they don't always know what they're talking about. it's just gossip. like gossipers at school.
speaker3: you can't always believe what you read. sometimes you need to scratch underneath the surface and find who the authority is.
speaker2: and once you do find out who the authorities are, ignore them at all costs.
speaker3: you can always ask your dad.
speaker2: everything's fine, honey. i'm not going anywhere. the only way i would lose my job is if someone was to give me a better one. don't worry about me, okay? dad knows what he's doing.
speaker1: pinkie swear?
speaker2: pinkie swear.

speaker1: this is a chart of what you should and shouldn't be swinging at. these circles represent different pitches. red is hit, blue is out, yellow's missed or foul, green is chased, white taken. this is you versus conway. what do you see? 
speaker2: i'm chasing a lot of high and outside.
speaker1: the red is where most hits happen. that's where you want to be swinging. you don't want to be swinging at the junk at the top of the strike zone. we'd rather take those strikes, `cause you're not going to hit `em out of the park.

speaker1: right now you're averaging about 4 pitches per at-bat. 
speaker2: 4 per bat?
speaker1: yeah, and that's great. one of the reasons why we love you. you're draining a pitcher's pitches. now, guys like bonds and jason giambi average a little over 5. that's top tier. does this chart make sense to you?
speaker2: yeah. i'll get on base more if i lay off anything high. this is awesome. so you have a breakdown of this from every game?
speaker1: every game. your instincts are in the right place. this isn't something they teach you in little league. this is something fundamental we're looking for -- how to wear out a pitcher's arm. if you're about to face conway and wondering what you should and shouldn't swing at, come in here and watch how you're tending. you can click on any one of these pitches and watch it happen.
speaker2: show me some of the stuff i'm chasing up high...

speaker1: the difference between 1-2 and 2-1 is the difference between a scrub and an all star. 
speaker2: so you're saying if we can get our guys to lay off the first pitch it'll put us in the driver's seat?
speaker1: any sort of extra discipline in the first three pitches will help us.
speaker2: that's a problem right there. terrance jogging to first.
speaker2: mr. justice. that's what we pay you for.
speaker2: chad bradford, you deceptive son of a i love you.
speaker2: he's a pain in the ass, but that giambi gets on base.
speaker1: hatteberg once had 18 walks in 30 at bats.
speaker2: my whole career i only had eighteen walks.
speaker1: actually... 11.
speaker2: shut up.

speaker1: hey, t. did your car get egged? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i think i just got an e-mail from the culprit. he said he was tired of paying good money just to watch you jogging around the bases.
speaker2: what the does that have to do with anything?
speaker1: i don't know, man. don't worry about it. billy exits. long calls after --
speaker2: who brings eggs to the ballpark anyway?!

speaker1: man, you're not fooling anyone but yourself out there. you're falling further and further behind. in your mind, what's the problem? 
speaker1: i can't understand you with your hand over your mouth.
speaker2: sorry, billy. it's just, the smell...
speaker1: right?
speaker1: it's that. and it's growing.

speaker1: i'm gonna grab a shower. 
speaker2: yup.

speaker1: hey, scottie. what's on your mind? 
speaker2: i feel like i'm hurting the team. at first base i'm making a lot of errors.
speaker1: 16.5 actually. but as a hitter, you will create 70 runs. 70 runs wins us an awful lot of ball games. i can live with that. can you live with that?
speaker2: i appreciate that, but i know you're just pulling those numbers out of your ass.
speaker1: i'm pulling them out of pete's, actually.
speaker1: and another thing. when a guy reaches first base, be social.
speaker2: social?
speaker1: like a greeter at the gap. a guy steps into your office, chat him up. you're well read, you went to college. have some fun out there. relax.
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: scottie, you deserve to be here.

speaker1: what are you guys getting up to tonight? 
speaker2: bed by ten o'clock. game time.
speaker1: i don't buy it.
speaker2: i'm sore, man. beat up. day in, day out.
speaker1: where d'you guys go next?
speaker2: houston.
speaker1: houston?
speaker1: you ever get up to boundary waters up there in minnesota? it's beautiful. i went on a trip up there. fishing trip.
speaker2: that's good fishing.
speaker1: "mankevich" is polish?
speaker3: yes, sir.

speaker1: where'd you go to school? 
speaker2: university of arizona.
speaker1: what are you guys getting up to tonight?
speaker2: see what the city's about -- san francisco. what are you up to?
speaker1: i don't know. depends on if we beat you today. probably celebrating.
speaker1: so my gm says i gotta be more social.
speaker2: jaqcue.
speaker1: i'm scott.
speaker2: how are you doing, scott?
speaker1: pretty good. you got kids?
speaker2: yeah...

speaker1: well you said it not me. 
speaker2: none of the oakland fans in their cars down there have forgotten the a's inglorious history-making choke in game 5 of the alds last october and tonight--

speaker1: hey, listen up fellas... bring it up real quick. 
speaker1: we got some older guys on this team, we got some younger guys on this team. what we got right now is a chance for everyone to make history. i don't want to get sappy and corny, but this is what we play for. we've been playin' real good for 19. let's get 20. we get 20, they can't take that away from us until they do it themselves. guys that are starting tonight, keep playing like you've been playing. guys not starting, be ready. huddie, you got the ball -- shove it up their tonight. let's play some ball!

speaker1: don't tell me the score, peter. 
speaker2: it's me, billy.
speaker1: how you doin', leggy.
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: sharon?
speaker2: you hangin' in there?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: hello?
speaker1: sharon?
speaker2: "go into real estate". what a stupid thing to say.
speaker1: i appreciate that, thanks.
speaker2: good luck. casey wants to talk to you.
speaker3: are you on your way to the stadium?
speaker1: no, i'm on my way to visalia to see our minor league team.

speaker1: dad - turn around. you have to see the game. 
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: turn around.
speaker2: i'll talk to you later, sweetheart. i love you.
speaker2: shhhit.
speaker3: tim hudson is carving through this royals line-up and at the end of three, it's the a's 11 and kansas city nothing.
speaker2: oh

speaker1: kansas city's scored five and oakland's lead is down to six as art howe comes out to the mound to pull tim hudson. 
speaker1: he'll go with the submariner, chad bradford.
speaker2: one, two, three, four -

speaker1: to himself but to 
speaker2: okay chad, let's see it.

speaker1: hattie. grab a bat. 
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: pinch hitting for eric byrnes--scott hatteberg. 
speaker2: ball!

speaker1: mr. beane? i'm elizabeth hatteberg. we met at my house last christmas. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: thank me? thank you. whatever you put in those christmas cookies, keep-- elizabeth starts to cry--
speaker2: whoa. it's okay.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: it's alright.
speaker1: you don't know what it's like to have everyone think you're a failure.
speaker2: well...you never thought that, and that's

speaker1: the worst possible 
speaker2: i did.
speaker2: and he knows i did.
speaker3: yeah he does know you did.
speaker1: he's talked to you?
speaker3: no. i just know.
speaker3: that's all over now.

speaker1: no it's okay now, just go. 
speaker1: gilligan.
speaker2: congratulations.

speaker1: billy and tara are eating. 
speaker2: aw, man. i spend the season trying to reduce it to numbers and we won on romance. suddenly it's the natural with hatteberg. scott hatteberg.
speaker2: to twenty.
speaker3: to twenty.
speaker3: you should've seen elizabeth's face when it went right over.
speaker2: she showed up afterwards.
speaker3: what did she say?
speaker2: i was a big moment for them. you know everyone wrote him off?
speaker3: you didn't. you found him and you put that together.

speaker1: i know. it was beautiful. but you know... it's not gonna mean a thing. 
speaker1: here's the thing -- we changed the game. we got this year, maybe next, then they're gonna catch on. this is our moment. i want to go the distance. i wanna shove it up the yankees' ass. not just the yankees, but... these guys deserve it.
speaker2: you deserve it. honey, 20 games. it's a record.
speaker1: that's right, it's just a record. it gets buried in some book. come on, tell me who won 19? i don't even know. it's 4th place at the olympics. any other team wins the world series this year... great. we're still in the record books. but if we win, we've changed the game. we've put it on its head and shoved it up their ass. if we don't, they're gonna erase us.

speaker1: the flaw in the a's thinking, and this comes from the top of their organization-- is their failure to comprehend you have to manufacture runs in the post season. 
speaker1: you have to steal. you have to bunt. you have to sacrifice. you have to trust in small ball, not billy ball.
speaker1: they think they've devised a science to win games. they think it resides in a computer. they thumb their nose at fundamentals. at tradition. at baseball.

speaker1: it's like a politician quitting a campaign to become a staffer. do you even know what a scout does? 
speaker2: i've been scouted since i was 15.

speaker1: and you're ready to say, "i'm not a baseball player"? 
speaker2: i'm not a baseball player.

speaker1: ready to do this? 
speaker1: suzanne? get schott on.
speaker1: you ever been to boston?
speaker1: we need to talk about the red sox.
speaker2: so i heard. john henry reached out to you?
speaker1: yes. but i haven't spoken with him yet.
speaker2: that's what he said.
speaker1: i want your blessing before i do.
speaker2: well, how am i supposed to react to all of this? you're under contract, billy.
speaker1: i know that, steve, but i'd like to talk to them. i want to see what they have to say.
speaker2: you're asking me to let them talk to you?
speaker1: yes. with your permission.

speaker1: well, i can't do that unless i know peter is in place as my gm. 
speaker2: pete?
speaker1: i'm not letting you take him with you, and i have no idea if he's willing to stay if you aren't here. how do i even know i can come to terms with him, given the extremely disadvantaged bargaining position you're putting me in?
speaker2: well, i think you'll agree this is a great opportunity for him. i can't believe he's not going to make a deal.
speaker1: if you want out of your contract, i want their whole team and a lot of cash. we've invested in you.
speaker2: i haven't asked to get out of my contract, steve, i just asked if i could talk to them.
speaker1: and i said i won't give you permission unless i know i have peter! you can't leave me with a vacant front office.
speaker2: then talk to peter.
speaker1: i will.
speaker1: all right. you know what? i've made it a point never to stand in the way of a man wanting to make more money. they made the call, the genie's out of the bottle. i had faith in your judgement when i named you gm; that's why i did it and i have faith in it now. good luck, billy.

speaker1: well, i didn't see that coming. 
speaker2: i think you should think about staying. you're one of the architects of this thing, it belongs as much to you as it does to me.
speaker1: okay... okay...
speaker2: how you doing pete?
speaker1: i'm a little overwhelmed right now. i think i need to process what's happening.
speaker2: why don't you take the day off.

speaker1: yes it is. it is. 
speaker2: you ever play here?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: that's a shame. let's walk the field.
speaker2: hey, i'm sorry i kept you waiting but believe it or not there was snow on 84. the second week in october. the car turns on to yawkee way and it's 53 degrees and this. how can there be an entirely different weather system here than there is three miles from here? is that global warming or a sign that there's no such thing?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: what's that billy joel song? oh the snow it was falling from stockbridge to boston. and the hilltops seemed something because of that frosting.
speaker1: i think that's james taylor and i'm certain those aren't the words.
speaker2: well whatever, it was snowing from stockbridge to boston so i'm sorry i'm late. we'll have lunch in a little bit but why don't i have some coffee sent up. denise? we've got espresso, cappuccino, latte, we've got a machine that makes whatever you want.
speaker1: we've got free soda.

speaker1: i heard about that. 
speaker1: can you have some coffee in there for us?
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: it's her birthday and i need to get her a present but she's usually the one who does that for me so do you have any ideas? 
speaker2: a scarf?
speaker1: you mean like wool?
speaker2: no i meant something that women wear with, you know, a decorative --
speaker1: sure! excellent.
speaker1: and where would i get something like that?
speaker2: john, no disrespect, i just lost in five for the second year in a row -- give her a bowling ball for all i care.
speaker1: steve schott told me he's offering you a new contract.
speaker2: yes he is.
speaker1: so why'd you return my call?
speaker2: you're the red sox, and i think i can help you.

speaker1: because baseball hates him. 
speaker2: money buys a lot of things. one is the luxury to disregard what baseball thinks.
speaker1: that must be nice. i was grateful to get your call.
speaker3: you were grateful.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: for 41 million you built a playoff team. you lost damon, giambi, isringhausen and pena and you won two more games without them than you did with them.
speaker3: you won the exact same number of games as the yankees but the yankees paid 1.4 million dollars per win and you paid two- hundred and sixty thousand. yes, i want you to be my general manager.
speaker3: i know you're taking it in the teeth. the first guy through a wall always gets hurt. but those are dying voices. any gm that doesn't tear down their team and rebuild it using your model is gonna be a dinosaur.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: my first offer.

speaker1: heads up! 
speaker2: what the --
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: what the was that?
speaker1: i don't know. sorry.
speaker1: how was boston?
speaker2: impressive.
speaker1: you're giving me youkilis, billy.

speaker1: why would i ever do that? 
speaker2: come on billy, schott's going to want something in exchange for letting you out of your contract and i want youkilis.
speaker1: oh, what is that, your gm voice? you can't have him.
speaker2: and cash. and a player to be named later.
speaker1: you already have my job. what else do you want from me?
speaker2: i don't want your job.
speaker1: why did you take it?
speaker2: you didn't leave me much choice.
speaker2: did henry make you a good offer?
speaker1: it doesn't matter.
speaker2: did he make you a good offer?
speaker1: it was fine.
speaker2: what was it?
speaker1: it doesn't matter.
speaker2: he offered to make you the highest paid gm in pro sports.

speaker1: i don't know. i've never heard you say you did. 
speaker2: so why am i doing this?
speaker1: you're not doing it for the money.
speaker2: i'm not?
speaker1: you're doing it for what the money says. it says what it says to any player who gets big money: that they're worth it.
speaker2: the offer says that. the money itself is redundant.
speaker2: i made one personal decision based on money in my life and i swore to never do that again.
speaker1: so you're not going to boston?
speaker2: i haven't decided.
speaker1: it's all over the news that it's a done deal.
speaker2: look at this place. what a dump.
speaker2: i so wanted to win here.
speaker1: i think you've already won, billy.
speaker2: no pete, we lost.
speaker1: you haven't given yourself time to get over it, it's only been three days.

speaker1: i'm not even over last year yet. i don't get over it. 
speaker2: i've got something in the video room, come with me.
speaker1: i really can't look at video right now.
speaker2: no, come with me.

speaker1: it's not much more than a home movie but you'll get the idea. 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: the visalia oaks and their 240 pound catcher, jeremy brown, who's scared of running to second. this was in a game six weeks ago.
speaker1: this guy's gonna start him off with a fastball low and in because he hasn't read the book on our guy and doesn't know that low and in is where he eats. jeremy takes him to deep center --
speaker1: -- and he knows that if he runs it's a stand-up double and he's running.
speaker2: go pal.

speaker1: and now he's gonna do something he never does. he's gonna round first base, he's gonna take the turn. 
speaker2: please tell me he's safe at second.
speaker1: no. because right here -- jeremy slips and stumbles to the ground.
speaker1: -- is what he's always been afraid of. it's all he can do to get himself back to first.
speaker2: what is that?
speaker1: that's the first base coach.
speaker2: why's he laughing? i'm gonna fire that guy, why the is he --
speaker1: everybody's laughing.
speaker1: and now jeremy finds out why. watch his face because this is art. he's just found out the ball went 60 feet over the fence. he'd hit a home run but he didn't know it.
speaker2: how can anybody not be romantic about baseball?

speaker1: it was a metaph-- 
speaker2: i know it was a metaphor.
speaker1: that was a of a baseball season, boss.
speaker2: the island of misfit toys. okay.

