speaker1: are you somebody? 
speaker2: no, honey, i'm just a working stiff.
speaker1: hi, rupert.
speaker3: hello, rupert.
speaker4: who did you get?

speaker1: nobody. 
speaker2: i got mr. raf vallone outside 21.
speaker3: he'd never tell you anyway, sidney.
speaker2: then i got him again at the pierre at four o'clock.
speaker4: be a dear, mae. i don't happen to have mr. vallone.
speaker2: you know what i want for him.
speaker4: but i have only six barbra's left. you know how difficult she is to work with.
speaker2: i don't have her even once.
speaker3: maybe rupert would help you.
speaker4: would you do that, rupert? you don't feel about barbra the way i do.
speaker2: i'll give you mr. burt reynolds too.
speaker3: look, sidney, rupert doesn't do that sort of thing.
speaker4: how about it, rupert? i'll give you whoever you want.

speaker1: rodney dangerfield ... richard harris ... liza minelli ... and she's not so easy to work with either ... louise lasser! 
speaker2: you're wasting your time.
speaker3: look, sidney. i'm just not interested. this isn't my whole life, you know.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean -- that it's
speaker4: it's her whole life too.
speaker3: what are you going to do with jerry's autograph?
speaker5: i don't know. maybe i'll sell it.
speaker6: i'll tell you what she's going to do with it. she's going to pin
speaker6: it on her bulletin board and have an orgasm.

speaker1: no, mae. 
speaker2: i don't mean now.
speaker1: no, mae.
speaker2: i'll get right out.

speaker1: how the did that girl get in there? they certainly don't give you very good protection, do they? 
speaker1: look at you here. who the is watching you? any one of these freaks could just walk right up to you and do whatever he wants.
speaker2: oh, jerry. how can we get to talk to you?
speaker1: just a minute. this is crazy.
speaker1: okay! stand back!
speaker1: didn't you hear me?!? come on, people, have a heart.
speaker1: stand back! go ahead, jerry.

speaker1: i hate to bother you like this, jerry, but could i speak to you for a minute. 
speaker2: i'd like to but ...
speaker1: i know you're a busy man. i promise not to take very long, really. but i need your advice.
speaker1: you don't have a handkerchief, do you? these people will kill you for a cufflink.
speaker1: thanks. if you have to be somewhere, i don't mind talking as we drive. you can drop me off anywhere.
speaker2: sorry, but i've got a strict rule never to ...
speaker1: i put myself on the line for you, jerry.
speaker1: thanks, jerry. i'm grateful for this chance to talk to you ... i hope i'm not boring you.
speaker2: i'll let you know.
speaker1: really? fine. i'm rupert pupkin, jerry. i know that the name itself doesn't mean very much to you but it means an awful lot to me, believe me. maybe you've seen me
speaker1: outside your show and wondered who i am.
speaker2: well ...
speaker1: well, up to now, i've been biding my time, developing my act slowly and carefully so that when my big break finally comes, i'm ready -- like you were that night paar got sick and you sat in for him. i was there that night, in the theater. that was the most important night of my life, until tonight, of course.
speaker2: no thanks. i don't smoke.
speaker1: me neither. i just carry them as a courtesy. how about a cough drop?
speaker2: no thanks. i don't cough.
speaker1: i try not to but sometimes, you know ... am i making any sense?
speaker2: go on.
speaker1: well, that night you did paar, i walked out of the theater like i was in a dream. all of a sudden, i knew what i wanted. i started catching your guest appearances on sullivan and taping them and, when you got your own show, it got to be a kind of regular thing. i studied how you built to your one-liners, nice and relaxed like you were chatting, and how you delivered
speaker1: the jokes without leaning too much on them, without saying "here's the punchline, folks." and i watched the way you played off dead audiences, how you let those long silences build until people couldn't stand it and then the way you got them off the hook with that slow smile. you were my college of comedy, jerry, like a kind of teacher, a friend. i know it sounds crazy, but when you watch someone every night ... but that's all in the past. what i'm trying to say is this. i'm ready now. i've finished the course. and i'm thinking as we sit here talking "is this it? is this that one big break?" is it, jerry?
speaker1: jerry?
speaker2: look ... er ... what was the name?
speaker1: i'm rupert, jerry.
speaker2: look, rupert. i know what you're saying. but things don't work that way. you can't just walk onto a network show without any experience. you've got to start at the bottom ...
speaker1: but that's where i am!
speaker2: you've got to work your way up, learn your trade in front of live audiences, start playing the little clubs.
speaker1: but that can take years, jerry! look at me. i'm already 31 years old! people my age are way ahead of me. i've got some catching up to do and i need your help. what do you say, jerry? all i'm asking you to do is listen to my act. that's all.
speaker2: i get calls from agents every day.
speaker1: i tried getting an agent. i did, jerry.

speaker1: look, why don't you call my office. 
speaker2: could i?!? oh, i knew you'd say that, jerry. you don't know how many times i've had this conversation in my head. and this is the way it always turns out. that's why i had to sort of invite myself into the car tonight. i know it's kind of presumptuous and i really appreciate the time you've given me. but breaks like this don't just happen. you have to make your own breaks.

speaker1: nice meeting you, rupert. i hope it all works out for you. 
speaker2: thanks, jerry. i don't know how to repay you. i'm a little short on cash this evening, but, if you don't mind some good, hearty food, i'd be honored to take you to dinner.
speaker1: thanks, but some people are waiting for me.
speaker2: oh, i understand. well, then, maybe i could repay you with a joke. langford is starting to walk into the building.
speaker2: wait a minute. how's this? the first night you do your show from the coast, you open this way. "good evening, ladies and gentlemen, it's great to be back here in

speaker1: not bad. maybe. 
speaker2: consider it a gift. hey, jerry!
speaker1: call my office.
speaker2: thanks, jerry.

speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. langford. how did you get in? 
speaker2: that's alright, vincent. mr. pupkin's a friend of mine.
speaker1: oh, i see.
speaker3: that's alright. now if you'd be good enough to find us a nice table.
speaker1: certainly. this way, please.

speaker1: here you are. enjoy your lunch, gentlemen. 
speaker2: is eddie here today, vincent?
speaker1: i'll send him over.
speaker3: our specialty today is rizzofino dolce acqua a la marinara con spezi. very good.
speaker4: sounds like a new opera.
speaker2: fine. what comes with it?
speaker3: me.
speaker4: fine. for two.
speaker3: very good.
speaker4: you look tired, jerry.
speaker2: it shows, does it? it's all these problems with the show. that and the custody suit.
speaker4: i was sorry to read about that, jerry. charlene never should have gotten the kids. if there's anything i can do.
speaker2: i appreciate it, rube. just talking about it a little with you helps.

speaker1: hasn't eddie already done you? 
speaker2: never mind. you were saying ...
speaker1: well, i've been giving a lot of thought to your situation, jerry, ever since i saw you starting to lose ground in the ratings. and i think i know what the problem is. too many of the same faces.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: sure, people are getting tired of these people who live off game shows and talk shows and can't really
speaker1: i'm sure i am. when a show runs out of surprises, it loses its audience.
speaker1: what's your name, dear?
speaker3: dolores.
speaker1: to dolores, who sensed greatness.
speaker3: thanks, mr. pupkin.
speaker1: you see what i mean? what you need on the show is some unknown quantity, some brilliant talent making his television debut. imagine the suspense. who is this young guy? how will he do with the eyes of all america on him? something like that has got to help.

speaker1: and that's where you come in. 
speaker2: why not? believe me, jerry, i'd give you the credit you deserve and i'll stick with you. anytime you need me, i'll be there, doing a few minutes at guild scale.
speaker1: i'd be grateful, rube. i really would.
speaker3: all finished, mr. langford.
speaker2: oh, jerry, you sneaky ...
speaker1: looks good, eddie.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker4: compliments of mr. sardi.
speaker5: how does your afternoon look?
speaker6: what have you got in mind?
speaker5: well, we've still got time to catch the cubs and the mets out at shea.
speaker6: why not? but first, a toast. to you, rube and your success.
speaker5: thanks, jerry.

speaker1: say hello to jerry. 
speaker1: say hello to jerry.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: who gave you this number? 
speaker2: don't be angry with me, jerry. i didn't know what else to do; i've been trying you every five minutes, i miss you, baby ... jerry?

speaker1: miss! 
speaker1: a beer please, miss. something imported.
speaker2: heineken's alright?
speaker1: fine.
speaker1: how have you been, rita?

speaker1: you're not rupert pupkin! 
speaker1: how the did you find me?
speaker2: sally gardner, i met her after a matinee. aren't you glad to see me?
speaker1: sure, sure. how is old sally?
speaker2: the same, i guess. you know, two kids, a nice husband, living in clifton.
speaker1: it figures.
speaker2: a lot of the kids in our class have moved back.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: i just thought i'd say hello. here, i brought you a little something.
speaker1: oh, yeah, mr. romance.
speaker2: don't forget to put in an aspirin. it lasts longer.
speaker1: nothing's gonna keep it alive in this place.
speaker2: how have you been, dear, sweet rita?
speaker1: i don't have an aspirin.
speaker2: maybe a rolaids would work.

speaker1: well, what are you up to these days, rupert? 
speaker2: didn't you know you'd see me again?
speaker1: you still going to the movies?
speaker2: you're looking as beautiful as ever.
speaker1: oh, yeah. i was a real knockout.
speaker2: i thought so.
speaker1: well, here i am. local cheerleader makes good.
speaker2: i voted for you for most beautiful.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: i didn't have the nerve to tell you then, but i guess it's alright now.
speaker1: well, nothing terrible's gonna happen, if that's what you mean.

speaker1: well, how are things with you, rupert? 
speaker2: great! everything's starting to break.
speaker1: is that right?
speaker2: yeah. as a matter of fact, that's why i'm here. i've known about this place for a long time. i just didn't want to make my move until i had something to offer you. everything's a question of timing.
speaker2: rita stares at pupkin as he rattles on.
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: christ, rupert pupkin!
speaker2: the two of us
speaker1: why, you got something better?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what are you doing tonight?
speaker1: tonight?
speaker2: what's so funny?
speaker1: you call me up all junior and senior year. night after night after night, right? and every time i'm wondering 'when is this guy going to stop talking and ask me out?' well, now i know the answer. august twelfth, nineteen seventy-six. it only took you ten, eleven years to work up to it.
speaker2: if i had asked you out? would you have gone?

speaker1: oh, no. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because i thought you were a jerk!
speaker2: you see! i was right! but that guy isn't me anymore. i look at my picture in the yearbook and i don't even recognize myself. i'm not the same guy, rita.
speaker3: rita!
speaker1: excuse me a minute, honey.
speaker2: i'm not honey! i'm rupert.
speaker2: miss! miss!
speaker2: i'm in the mood to celebrate tonight. why don't we go to this nice restaurant i know, talk over and times, get to know each other all over again.
speaker1: and then?
speaker2: well, tomorrow night i thought we'd go out again, talk some more, get to know each other even better.
speaker1: how much?

speaker1: how much what? 
speaker2: how much do we have to get to know each other?
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: how much do we have to get to know each other before we start talking about that job?
speaker1: i'm not talking about any job.
speaker2: then what's this big offer you were talking about?
speaker1: you'll see. right now i'm asking you for a date. how about it?
speaker2: i'm sorry, rupert. but i'm busy.
speaker1: busy?
speaker2: yeah. busy.
speaker1: but this is the biggest night of my life.
speaker2: i've already got a date.
speaker3: rita!
speaker1: miss! miss!

speaker1: is that your date? 
speaker2: none of your business.
speaker1: what do you want to go out with
speaker1: tell
speaker1: everything! you don't understand.
speaker2: no. i don't. it's been really nice seeing you, rupert. thanks for dropping in. but i've got some work to do.

speaker1: listen to me for a second. 
speaker2: i have work to do, rupert.
speaker1: just listen. i'm at the start of something really big. i don't want to talk about it here but it's going to happen soon and it's going to be great -- for both of us.
speaker2: no kidding?
speaker1: so see that guy some other night.
speaker3: rita!
speaker1: but i haven't finished!
speaker1: miss! miss!
speaker2: i'll get you another one.

speaker1: miss! miss! 
speaker2: c'mon, schmuck, wake up so i can kick your outta here.

speaker1: okay, buddy, here we go. 
speaker2: okay, tarzan. where do we eat tonight?

speaker1: another one, chan. 
speaker2: chopsticks, please.
speaker1: so all this time you've been thinking about me, huh?
speaker2: that's right, rita.
speaker1: what kinds of things were you thinking?
speaker1: oh, ho! those kinds of things! shame on you, rupert.

speaker1: rupert pupkin is an unclean person! 
speaker2: come on, rita. people will hear.
speaker2: this is a very important evening to me, rita.
speaker1: did you know your nose wiggled when you talked?
speaker2: it does?
speaker1: yeah. just the tip. like a rabbit. hey, are we gonna eat or what? i'm starving.
speaker1: it always looks like they put worms in this stuff.
speaker2: just taste.
speaker1: well, i guess it won't kill me.
speaker2: this is supposed to be the finest cantonese cuisine in the city.
speaker1: yeah? then what happened to the tablecloths?
speaker1: oh, don't worry about it. this is
speaker1: fine. i'm having a good time. so you've been devoted to me, huh?
speaker2: i used to see you at the garden every year.
speaker1: oh, the follies. that was the right name for 'em. how did you know which one was me? we all looked like chickens.
speaker1: breaks, my parents didn't have the money for the right coach. but what difference does it make?
speaker1: i remember once we were down in atlanta and the ice machine broke down. we did three hours of slush. everyone was falling on their faces and hopping up with their arms open for a bow like the whole thing was planned. and the people ate it up.
speaker2: i liked the show.
speaker1: yeah? the follies? you really must have been carrying the torch. what did you think when i got married?
speaker2: i knew it wouldn't last.
speaker1: you think i should have married you, instead, huh?
speaker2: peter

speaker1: are you seeing anyone? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i want to know about the competition, that's all.
speaker2: well, tomorrow night, i've got a date with joe namath -- you know joe. and thursday --- let's see --
speaker1: i'm serious, rita.
speaker2: i'm serious, rita. sure i see people. i'm not a nun, rupert.
speaker1: anyone special?
speaker2: you mean am i "going steady"? rupert, i'm thirty-one years old!
speaker1: what about that guy tonight?
speaker2: him?
speaker1: why him?

speaker1: what am i supposed to do, huh? sit home watching tv? he's just some guy. he's got his own aluminum siding business. he comes into the city sometimes, that's all. 
speaker2: you don't go out with him for his money?!?
speaker1: oh, horrors! look, rupert, what do you think they pay me in that dump? ninety-five bucks. and you don't get the world's greatest tippers in there either.
speaker2: who's your favorite movie star?
speaker1: you are, rupert. especially your nose.
speaker2: just tell me.
speaker1: is this some kind of game? are you going to tell me something about my character?
speaker2: you'll see. give me his name.
speaker1: i can't think of anybody.
speaker2: you've got to have one, rita. everybody does.
speaker1: okay. okay. let's see. marilyn monroe.
speaker1: oh, rupert! are we going to exchange
speaker1: phone numbers!?
speaker1: that's her name.
speaker2: her name! she signed this herself, especially for me.
speaker2: she wasn't a great actress but she had a real gift for comedy. she died tragically, you know, alone, like so many of the world's most beautiful women. i'm going to see that doesn't happen to you, rita.
speaker1: who's this one?
speaker2: burt reynolds.
speaker1: oh yeah, the guy with no clothes.
speaker2: mel brooks.
speaker1: and this?
speaker2: carol burnett.
speaker1: no kidding. how about this?
speaker2: glenda jackson.
speaker1: never heard of her.
speaker2: and that's woody allen and there's
speaker2: ernie kovacs -- he's dead -- and that one's lauren bacall.
speaker1: you don't really know any of these people?
speaker2: take a look at this.

speaker1: i can't make it out. 
speaker2: try.
speaker1: this is really weird handwriting!
speaker2: rooooper ....
speaker1: redford!
speaker2: that's
speaker2: no! it's ... it's rupert pupkin
speaker2: don't lose it. it's going to be worth something in a couple of weeks.
speaker2: that's what i've been trying to tell you. things are really breaking for me. i'm ticketed for stardom.

speaker1: only a couple of hours ago, i was talking to jerry langford, 
speaker2: your act?
speaker1: get that guy you knew from clifton out of your head right now. you're looking at rupert pupkin, rita. rupert pupkin, the new king of comedy.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: why not me, rita? a guy can always get what he wants if he's willing to pay the price. all it takes is a little talent and sacrifice and the right break. if you've got a friend in the right place, that's all it takes. and that's exactly what i have going for me right now. after all, crazier things have happened.
speaker1: you just don't realize what a shot on the langford show can mean. that's coast to coast, national tv, a bigger audience than the greatest comedians used to play to in a lifetime. a shot like that means a free ticket on the comedy circuit -- flip wilson one week, cosby the next, then sonny and cher or carol burnett. and you've always got those other talk shows to fall back on -- carson, griffin. and all that leads straight in one direction, rita -- hollywood! that's when we really start

speaker1: you going to spend the rest of your life in that place? is that what you really want, talking about nothing with nothings? i thought you wanted something a little better than that and that's what i'm offering. every king needs a queen, rita. i want you to be mine. what do you say? 
speaker2: you really want to help me out? you see this. a hundred seventy-five bucks. if you could spare fifty, say, until next monday, that would keep three people really happy -- me, my landlord and my dentist.
speaker3: telephone for you, miss.
speaker2: me? nobody knows i'm here. you didn't tell anybody, did you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what the hell's going on?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: who do you think it is? i've been staring at you all evening.
speaker1: where are you?

speaker1: you know who that was -- the bar. i have to go back to work. 
speaker2: how did they know you were here?
speaker1: i guess i must have told them. they need someone right away.
speaker2: you don't even care, do you?
speaker1: oh, no. i do. really!
speaker2: it's not the bar, rita. don't tell me it's the bar.

speaker1: come on. let's see a smile. 
speaker2: why don't we finish the evening up at the bar together? end the evening where it began?
speaker1: after what happened there?
speaker2: well, i could at least drop you off!
speaker1: that's okay. really. i can manage. why don't you just go to a movie or something? don't let me spoil your evening.
speaker2: but that wouldn't be right.
speaker1: look, rupert. it's been a lot of fun, really. i'll see you sometime, huh?
speaker2: but rita!
speaker1: come on, rupert. i'm in a hurry.

speaker1: welcome to the pleasure dome. 
speaker2: you don't kid around, do you?
speaker1: i do alright. what's your libation?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: your potion. your drink.
speaker2: bourbon and soda. make it light.
speaker1: you from the south?
speaker2: me?

speaker1: that's what southern people drink. 
speaker2: what do people from jersey drink?
speaker1: i make it a point to study things like that. it's important to know people's backgrounds, their tastes, their culture. it gives you a little head start.
speaker1: i'm chet. whom do i have the pleasure of serving?
speaker2: i'm mary.
speaker1: pleased to meat you, mary. to

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: rita keane. i want to talk to her.
speaker1: rita keane?
speaker2: that's right. oh, never mind. i must have the wrong apartment.
speaker1: there's no rita here.
speaker2: i know. i know. i'm sorry to bother you.
speaker1: you must have the wrong apartment.

speaker1: leisure is america's fastest growing industry. did you know that? think about it. short work weeks, more vacation. people need something to do with all that time and that's where i come in. leisure villages, inc. we buy land an hour or so outside your metropolitan centers. we set up the bungalows, dig some lakes, lay out a golf course, you know, fix the whole place up so it's usable. then young, personable guys like me show the people around. it the guy seems tight, we point out the investment factor. if he's a swinger, well, the bungalows are very private. if he's a sports nut, we talk up skiing and fishing and tennis. 
speaker1: what's your work, mary?
speaker2: me. i fly for national.
speaker1: no kidding?
speaker2: what's that smell?
speaker1: sandalwood incense. it seemed very you.

speaker1: did you know that you have remarkable hair? 
speaker2: yeah? you know what? i feel like going to a movie.
speaker1: now?
speaker2: sure. why not? it's only twenty of ten. we can make a ten o'clock show.
speaker1: why don't we make our own movie?
speaker2: no. i don't think so.
speaker1: don't be so uptight. give it a chance.
speaker2: i want to go to the movies, that's all.
speaker1: we can go to the movies later.
speaker2: let's stop playing games, okay.
speaker1: you have something against pleasure?

speaker1: shall i freshen up your drink? 
speaker1: what exactly did you think we were going to do up here?

speaker1: look, if you've got sexual problems let's talk about them. it helps clear the air. 
speaker2: there's nothing wrong with
speaker2: i don't even know you.
speaker1: then find out. is a great way of breaking down barriers.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: i'm sure this could lead to something beautiful.
speaker1: passive resistance, huh?

speaker1: let's just write this thing off as a big mistake. what do you say? 
speaker2: what's wrong with me?
speaker1: nothing. i just want to go home.
speaker2: i can see i'm not turning you on.
speaker1: you noticed that, huh?
speaker2: come on. what's wrong with me?
speaker1: you really want to know?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how can i put it? well, it's like you've got your fly open and your tongue hanging out.

speaker1: i'm really a very sensitive person. 
speaker2: come on. get offa me.
speaker1: sometimes i write poetry.
speaker2: no!

speaker1: come on. let's talk this over. 
speaker2: i admire you very much. i respect you, mary.
speaker1: you're hurting me.
speaker2: i'm only doing what you want.
speaker1: oh, please.

speaker1: rita! 
speaker2: what do
speaker2: just go home and leave me alone.
speaker1: here. you'll need this. it's getting chilly.
speaker2: i'm so
speaker2: not all the time.
speaker1: i'll get us a cab.

speaker1: stuff it, big spender! 
speaker2: well, i guess you're entitled to come up for coffee.
speaker3: that's okay, rita. you're tired and i know i'm not always the easiest guy to be with.
speaker2: what do you
speaker3: look, what if i arranged it so you could meet jerry? you'd have to believe me if you heard it from him.
speaker2: there's no ...
speaker3: i'll arrange that, rita. we'll all go out to dinner some night or maybe out to his place, on a weekend. you'll see. the trouble with you is you've got no faith. now go to bed and get a good rest and i'll see you in a couple of days.
speaker3: now run along in.
speaker3: rita just stares at him.
speaker3: go on.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: i need somebody to sign. you can sign anything you want -- cary grant, art carney, i don't care.
speaker2: would you mind very much if i used your phone? it's local.
speaker1: don't be, long. dial nine.
speaker2: may i speak to jerry langford, please? thanks ... jerry langford, please. rupert pupkin ... jerry knows. i'm calling at his request ... i see.
speaker1: that's not jerry langford, the ...
speaker2: that's right. thanks for your phone.

speaker1: yes sir? 
speaker2: mr. langford, please.
speaker1: your name?
speaker2: pupkin. rupert pupkin.

speaker1: you know the secret of dieting, jerry? grapefruit. it's good for you. it's filling. and it's low in calories. 
speaker2: take note of that, you ladies.
speaker1: as a matter of fact, yesterday i went to the outdoor market near where i live and i bought twenty grapefruit. the grocer looked at me and said, "what are you gonna do with all those?" so i bent over and told him "i'm gonna take 'em back to florida and set 'em free!" langford and the audience laugh heartily.

speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. pupkin, but mr. langford's secretary has no record of any appointment. 
speaker2: pardon me?
speaker1: mr. langford's secretary has no record of any appointment.
speaker2: well, technically speaking, i don't actually have an appointment. jerry asked me to call him today and when i couldn't get through, i thought ...
speaker1: i see. he says mr. langford asked him to call. mr. langford's secretary wants to know what this is in reference to.
speaker2: hello? ... jerry and i discussed my being on the show last night and he told me to call ... no. i don't mind.
speaker2: i'm supposed to wait.
speaker1: mr. gangemi.
speaker2: oh, i see. mr. gangemi.
speaker1: he takes care of our air conditioning.
speaker3: uh ... mr. pupkin?
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: i'm cathy long.
speaker2: i'm mr. pupkin.
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker2: i'm sorry, but you are?
speaker3: i'm bert thomas' assistant.
speaker2: bert thomas?
speaker3: he's our executive producer.
speaker2: oh, yes. i'm sure he is. but, you see, i've already talked directly with jerry about my being on the show and he told me to get in touch with him. i'm just here to follow up on that.
speaker3: what do you do, mr. pupkin?

speaker1: fine. where are you working? 
speaker2: well, right now i'm developing new material.
speaker3: i see. well, as soon as you start performing again, let us know where you are and i'll send my assistant down to check you out.
speaker2: sure. sure. but that's not necessary, miss long. jerry and i already went over all this.
speaker1: does jerry know your work?
speaker2: yes. i don't think he does.
speaker1: you don't happen to have a tape or a demo that we might listen to?
speaker2: oh, sure. i've got lots of tapes.
speaker1: good. why don't you just send one to us and i assure you we'll listen to it promptly.
speaker2: great. i'll do that. i can see that'd be a lot easier for jerry.
speaker1: don't mention it, mr. pupkin. now, if you'd excuse me ...
speaker2: sure. sure. thanks again.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: i've got to speak to you for a minute. 
speaker2: yeah. i know.
speaker1: look. did jerry say anything about me last night?
speaker2: i'm really in a hurry, marsha ...
speaker1: was he angry? ... in the car last night, i saw you. did he talk about me?
speaker2: i thought that was you. that was some stunt.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: we didn't talk about you.
speaker1: you know jerry?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: give him this for me.
speaker2: why don't you ...
speaker1: because i
speaker2: i don't want this.
speaker1: take it. i can get all i want.
speaker2: okay. i'll try.
speaker1: don't
speaker2: okay. okay.
speaker1: how soon can you get it to him?
speaker2: i don't know. couple a days.
speaker1: you'd better.

speaker1: first, miss long. thanks very much for your help at the office and for passing this along to jerry. i appreciate it more than you know. 
speaker1: now, jerry. before i begin, i just want to thank you for listening to this material and for the opportunity that you've given me. you know, lots of people think that guys like you, you know, people who have made it, lose their feeling for struggling
speaker1: young talent such as myself. but now i know from experience that those people are just cynics, embittered by their own failure. i know, jerry, that you're as human as the rest of us, if not more so. oh well, i guess there's no point going on about it. you know how i feel. so let's get on with the show. the best of rupert pupkin! i've sketched out this little introduction in order to save you a little time. so close your eyes and imagine it's exactly six o'clock. you're standing in the wings and we hear rick ross and the orchestra strike up your theme song.
speaker2: and now, direct from new york, it's the jerry langford show! tonight, with jerry's special guest ...
speaker1: ... the comedy find of the year making his television debut, rupert pupkin, the king of comedy!
speaker1: now you come on, jerry, and do your monologue. then, when the time comes, this is how i see you introducing me. you'll say something like this. "ladies and gentlemen we're going to do something a little bit different tonight. it isn't often that you can call someone a sure thing in the entertainment business. after all, the verdict is always in your hands. but i think after you've met my next guest, that you'll agree with me that he's destined for greatness. so, now, will you please give your warmest welcome to the newest king of comedy, rupert pupkin!!!"

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i didn't want to take any chances with this ... uh ... miss long, so i ... uh ... thought i'd just bring it here myself. he hands cathy long the package as though it contained nitroglycerine.
speaker1: we talked about this this morning, did we, mr. ... ?
speaker2: pupkin. rupert pupkin.
speaker1: oh, yes. it's been some day. well, i certainly appreciate your bringing this over, mr. pupkin, and we'll listen to it as soon as possible.
speaker2: fine. er ... you don't have any idea how soon that might be?
speaker1: well, you can try checking with us tomorrow. we might know something by then. otherwise, it'll have to be monday.
speaker2: what if i just sort of waited around here today, just in case? i'll stay out of the way.
speaker1: you'd just be wasting your time, mr. pupkin. we won't know anything until tomorrow at the earliest.
speaker2: oh, i wouldn't consider it a waste of
speaker2: time at all. i'd be glad to do it.
speaker1: look, why don't you try us tomorrow.
speaker2: tomorrow? ... right. i'll do that. thanks a lot, miss long. and thank jerry.

speaker1: dynamite! this is dynamite! 
speaker2: you think so, jerry?
speaker1: look, i've been at this for fifteen years, rupert, and i haven't come up with anything like this -- not me, not any of my writers.
speaker2: well, i'm glad you like it, jerry.
speaker1: tell me something, rube. how do you do it? i'm not asking to use the material myself. i just want to know how you how you
speaker1: come on. try, rube.

speaker1: is that what you do? the worst parts, and then you look at them in a funny light? is that what you do? 
speaker2: more or less. it's hard to describe how its happens.
speaker1: but that's just it, rube. it doesn't happen for me. why do you think the show is in so much trouble? by the time i've done my monologue, everyone has switched to carson. maybe if you did a little writing ... ?
speaker2: sure, jerry, i'd do anything i could to help out.
speaker1: you would? great. why don't you come out to my place this weekend and we'll hash it out. i'm having a few of my friends but we should be able to get a little work in.
speaker2: would you mind if i brought someone?
speaker1: a girl, rube?
speaker2: a very special girl, jerry.
speaker1: i'd love to meet her.

speaker1: cab, jerry? 
speaker2: that's alright, thanks.
speaker3: hey, jerry. my brother can sing and juggle at the same time. how about puttin' him on your show?
speaker3: how about it, jerry?
speaker2: sorry, i'm off duty.

speaker1: you're jerry!! 
speaker1: you know something. i undress in front of you every night and larry here doesn't mind at all.
speaker2: i can't get anything started with her until you're off the air. your show is ruining my life, jerry.
speaker3: well then, you'll just have to put on a better show than i do.

speaker1: yes, sir? oh, hi. 
speaker2: hi. how are you?
speaker1: not bad.
speaker2: i'm fine.
speaker1: can i help you?
speaker2: i'd like to see jerry, please.
speaker1: you are ... ?
speaker2: mr. pupkin.
speaker1: just a minute.
speaker1: the receptionist dials a number.
speaker1: mr. pupkin is here ... that's right ... she'll be with you in a minute.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: miss long.
speaker2: but i wanted to see jerry.
speaker1: mr. langford's not in. miss long will take care of you.
speaker2: alright.
speaker3: mr. pupkin?
speaker2: how are you today?
speaker3: fine, mr. pupkin. thank you for your tape. we listened to it with great interest. and, frankly, mr. pupkin, we saw a lot of good things in what you're doing. we feel you have good potential. very good potential.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: that's why i'll be honest with you, mr. pupkin ...
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: we just don't think you're ready yet.
speaker2: not ready?

speaker1: well, we just don't feel right now that you're right for jerry. 
speaker2: right for jerry. sure.
speaker1: some of the material ... some of the one-liners, for instance ...
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: ... were not very strong.
speaker2: you didn't care for some of the jokes, is that it?
speaker1: that"s right.
speaker2: good. good. i can take care of that right way. thanks. just tell me the ones you think should go. that would be a big help. this is great. which ones?
speaker1: well, it's not just that, mr. pupkin. you see, jerry likes to panel his guests, you know, chat with them afterwards.
speaker2: sure. sure.
speaker1: and frankly, we just don't feel you've got very much to talk about right now.
speaker2: but i've got my whole life to talk about!
speaker1: which is interesting to you, i'm sure and to your wife ... and to a few friends. but we feel that you should keep developing your act. test it in some live situations. there are a number of clubs in the city you can
speaker1: try. and after a reasonable period, get in touch with us again and we'll be glad to send someone down to check out your progress.
speaker2: may i ask you a question, miss long?
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: are you speaking for jerry?
speaker1: let's put it this way, mr. pupkin. mr. langford has complete faith in our judgment.
speaker2: i'm sorry to have to say this, miss long, and i certainly don't want you to take it personally, but i have to tell you that i
speaker2: no ... no ... i'm afraid i'll have to disagree with you again.
speaker1: that's your privilege, mr. pupkin. now, if you'll excuse me, please, i have some things to do. i'm sorry the news isn't better.
speaker2: miss long?
speaker2: when are you expecting jerry in?
speaker1: he won't be in until very late this afternoon.

speaker1: that's fine. thank you. 
speaker2: is there anyone else you would like to see?
speaker1: that's alright. i'm happy just waiting.
speaker2: well, would you mind waiting outside, please, mr. pupkin? this is a reception area, not a waiting room.
speaker1: i understand.
speaker3: mr. pupkin? i'm raymond wirtz, in charge of security for the langford organization.
speaker4: now i think you understand that we have certain rules here that are essential to the smooth functioning of our operation.
speaker1: sure. sure.
speaker4: and that without these rules, we really wouldn't be able to function at our best. you follow my point?

speaker1: now one of these rules is that only authorized personnel and those having official business with our organization are permitted on our premises. and that's why i'm asking you, mr. pupkin, to cooperate with us. 
speaker2: you want me to leave the building.
speaker1: that's right. it's nothing personal, mr. pupkin. just doing my job.
speaker1: have a pleasant day.

speaker1: well, did you give it to him? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: did you get my letter to him?
speaker2: he's not in there.
speaker1: look, if you don't want to give it him, okay. i'll get somebody else. but don't try to con me.
speaker2: i told you i'd try and i will. i'm going to wait for him right here.
speaker1: give me the envelope, huh?

speaker1: sure, but ... 
speaker2: i saw him go in myself!
speaker1: who?
speaker2: jerry!
speaker1: but they said he wasn't in.
speaker2: just give me the envelope.
speaker1: when did he go in?
speaker2: ten minutes ago! that's when.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: look, i saw him my ...
speaker1: and he hasn't come out?
speaker2: i've been standing right here. now how about it?
speaker2: i'm staying right here!

speaker1: tell jerry langford i'm here, please. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, sir. mr. langford's not in.
speaker1: i happen to know he
speaker2: i'm sorry. he's
speaker1: jerry! jerry! you're going the have a of a lot of explaining to do! jerry!
speaker3: you had your warning, mr. krupkin.
speaker1: jerry! help me. jerry!
speaker1: jerry!

speaker1: if we see your face again, mr. pupkin, we'll call the police. 
speaker2: start looking for a new job!

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: does he have it?
speaker2: don't worry. i'll get it to him.
speaker1: yeah? when?
speaker2: this weekend. he asked me to go out there, to his house.

speaker1: what are we going to do? 
speaker2: look, i told you, i've got some work to discuss with him. that's all.
speaker1: but what about me?
speaker2: you're with
speaker2: you can chat with the other guests.
speaker1: i'm sure they'll be thrilled hearing about the wonderful world of draft beer. let's tell 'em i'm a model, okay?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: if they ask what i do, let's just say i model. you don't mind pretending just a little, do you?
speaker2: if it make you feel better.
speaker1: this is a gas! too bad nobody'll believe it. after you guys are done working, what happens? are we going out someplace, or what?
speaker2: i'm sure jerry has something arranged.
speaker2: there is another pause.
speaker1: what do these people do for fun? do they party or do freaky things or just get drunk or ... i mean, what do they
speaker1: talk?!? what can you talk about for three or four hours?!
speaker2: what do you mean? they've got plenty to talk about. they
speaker1: boy, this is going to be some great weekend. i thought we were gonna have some fun.
speaker2: just take it easy, rita. everything's going to be fine.

speaker1: oh, you have no idea how bad it's gotten in new york. now the muggers are so efficient that, each time they jump you, they take your name and address and put you on a mailing list. and once you're on the list, you're in 
speaker1: so what my friend does is get himself a dog, one of those huge german shepherds. one night, he's walking the dog in central park when he hears this voice behind him. okay, harry, drop your vallet and keep your hantz over your head or i bite your little off.
speaker2: looks like you've found yourself a winner, jerry.

speaker1: have you set a date? 
speaker2: oh, yes.
speaker3: i hope we're all invited.
speaker2: everyone's invited.

speaker1: we are met here in these extraordinary circumstances to join this man and this woman in holy wedlock. but, before we begin, let me voice a personal word of thanks to you, rupert and to you, rita, for choosing me to perform this prestigious ceremony. because we are on prime time, i am going to discard my customary remarks in favor of a few personal reflections. when i was principal at clifton high and these two were students, i had very little faith that rupert here would amount to very much. but like his teachers and his fellow students, i underestimated this fine young man. some say that this misjudgment is directly tied to my recent dismissal as head of the clifton school system. but let me take this opportunity to set the record straight. 
speaker1: most certainly destined for a great career and a lifetime of happiness, i voluntarily stepped down. i would only here add my own wishes to those of millions of viewers for their continued health, wealth and boundless success.
speaker1: we'll be back to marry them in a minute, right after this word.

speaker1: look at that one. how'd you like to live in that?!?! or that one! what do you figure these run? 
speaker2: what's this?
speaker3: this is it.
speaker1: it's gorgeous!
speaker2: you sure?

speaker1: look, friend, i wouldn't want to tell you how many times i made this trip. that'll be three seventy-five. 
speaker2: keep it.
speaker1: thanks. if you need a ride back, just ask the guy for wayne. that's me.

speaker1: you must be jonno. i'm rupert pupkin and this is rita keane. mr. langford's expecting us. 
speaker2: mr. langford asked you to come?
speaker1: that's right. would you mind taking those up? jerry and i have some work that may oblige me to stay overnight.
speaker2: but mr. langford's not here.

speaker1: out playing golf, right? 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: maybe he'll finally break a hundred.
speaker2: maybe it's better if you came back ...
speaker3: the table's only set for one.
speaker1: that's from breakfast. relax, will you?

speaker1: i could live here. 
speaker2: it's the only way
speaker2: you heard the guy. he's out playing golf.
speaker1: didn't you tell him when we'd get here?
speaker2: we didn't have time to iron out the details. now just relax. we're the first guests, that's all.
speaker1: that jonno character hadn't even heard of us!
speaker2: it probably slipped jerry's mind. he has better things to think about than what he tells his houseboy.
speaker1: it's just not time way i expected it, that's all.
speaker1: what do we do now?

speaker1: these are jerry's parents. his father runs the post office in wolverine -- that's in north dakota. 
speaker1: this one was in newsweek. he started giving these puppet shows when he was still in grade school.
speaker1: and this is from his quiz show in st. louis. can you believe it?
speaker2: sure i can.
speaker1: that was the name of the show.
speaker1: and here's when he wrote for jack paar. he made a hundred and fifty a week and look at him now.
speaker1: and this is his morning show.
speaker1: and his kids. he's divorced.
speaker2: look at this. i love these kind of things. look at the work. i've got this thing about boxes.

speaker1: how much longer are we gonna have to wait? 
speaker2: i don't know. until he gets back.
speaker3: do we have to just sit here?
speaker2: he should be back pretty soon.
speaker1: doesn't he have any music or anything? let's get a little life into this place. it's like a funeral parlor.
speaker1: this is more like it.
speaker2: come on, rita.
speaker1: come on, yourself.
speaker1: how about a little spin, handsome?

speaker1: come on, rupert. i came up here for a good time. 
speaker2: the way you wore your hat, the way we danced till three, the memory of all that -- oh no, they can't take that away from me, no ... they can't take that away ... from ... me.
speaker1: you never could dance, could you?
speaker3: how would you know?
speaker1: oh i danced with you a couple of times -- at the sigma u party.
speaker3: you were there with tommy winston.
speaker1: you didn't ask me.
speaker3: that's the one time i
speaker1: be serious, rupert.

speaker1: well, it's all ended happily and that's what counts. 
speaker2: i wonder what the rest of this place looks like?
speaker1: i'm sure it's all very nice.
speaker2: you coming or not?
speaker1: rita!

speaker1: where are you? 
speaker1: come on, rita. this isn't funny.

speaker1: what are you doing, rita? 
speaker2: i love it! all those millions of women out there dying to change places with me right now.
speaker1: come on. we shouldn't be here.
speaker2: relax, will you. let me have a little fun, for christ's sake. rita gets off the bed and runs into the john.

speaker1: look at this. it's nicer than my whole apartment. 
speaker2: let's go, rita.
speaker1: boy, i really need some sun.
speaker2: rita, this is jerry's ...
speaker1: lay off, will you, rupert.
speaker2: but we have no right ...

speaker1: that wasn't funny, rita. 
speaker2: here.
speaker2: now for something that smells nice.

speaker1: where are they? 
speaker2: i was going to call the police but then i thought to myself 'what if they are mr. langford's friends?'
speaker3: hi, jerry. we were just freshening up.
speaker3: jerry, i'd like you to meet rita keane. rita, say hello to jerry!

speaker1: pleased to meet you. 
speaker2: what's your pleasure?
speaker2: we've already taken the liberty, so to speak. rita was a little nervous. it isn't every day she meets someone like you.
speaker3: what's going on here?
speaker2: we've been sitting around, waiting.
speaker4: i told them you weren't here.
speaker5: that's right.
speaker2: he did, jerry. he was very helpful. we had to take an early train. there was nothing else until after one. i brought the material. it's upstairs, in my bags. where is everybody?
speaker3: who?
speaker2: the other guests! we're getting a little hungry, to tell you the truth.
speaker3: you are.

speaker1: but we don't mind waiting, do we, rita? rita says nothing. she has sensed something terribly wrong and is slowly backing away from pupkin. 
speaker2: you know, i could have you arrested, both of you.
speaker1: you know you could! and there'd be absolutely no way we could prove we belonged here. i never thought of that.
speaker2: well, you
speaker2: let's
speaker2: look, if you've got something for me to sign, let's have it and get it over with so i can get back ...
speaker1: that wouldn't be right, jerry.
speaker2: i have a lot of work to get to.
speaker1: we took a taxi, jerry ... but don't worry about us. you go ahead and do your work and we'll just take a stroll around until lunch is ready.

speaker1: you're a little thick, aren't you? 
speaker2: well, maybe a ...
speaker3: what's he's saying, rupert, is that he wants us out.
speaker2: don't listen to her, jerry. she doesn't understand anything about us.
speaker3: don't get me into this.
speaker1: call the station.
speaker1: there'll be a cab here in a few minutes. now if you'll just wait at the gate ...
speaker2: look, jerry, if i've said anything out of line, let's chalk it up to inexperience, okay? i'll just go upstairs and get my tape and we can start working. it shouldn't take long and then you'll have the rest of the afternoon to yourself.
speaker1: i've told you just as clearly as i can. i want you out of here and i want you out now. scram, beat it, vamoose, out! is that plain enough!
speaker2: but what about my material? when are we going to go over it?
speaker3: come on, rupert, the man wants us to go.
speaker2: tell her she's wrong, jerry!

speaker1: look, mr. langford. i didn't know anything about all this. i hardly know this guy. i haven't seen him in years. 
speaker2: rita!
speaker1: so if there's anything i can do, any way i can make this up to you.
speaker2: she's nothing, jerry. she's just some girl who works in a bar. don't let her spoil things.
speaker3: come on. let's go.
speaker2: all i'm asking is fifteen minutes. that's all. just long enough to listen to my act. is that asking too much -- fifteen minutes of your day against my whole life?
speaker3: i'll call the police if i have to.
speaker3: i have my own life, that's all.
speaker2: but what about
speaker2: so this is the way it works when you're big, huh? you just play with people. is that part of the kick, jerry? i can see i was all wrong about you. all wrong.

speaker1: come on, rupert. 
speaker2: shut up! you weren't my friend at all, were you? you were just playing some kind of game with me. well, that's not going to stop me, jerry. i'm just going to work a little bit harder, that's all, use a little bit more enterprise. and not count on anybody. that's where i made my mistake. i can see that now.
speaker2: come on, rita. we're wasting our time.

speaker1: what did you think was going to happen? you think he'd just ... ? what's the matter with you? you can't just walk into a guy's house! and what about me? what did you ... 
speaker2: shut up, rita. i'm thinking.

speaker1: how much longer?!? 
speaker2: do you want him or not?
speaker1: you sure he's in there?
speaker2: certain.
speaker1: my parents are going to be
speaker1: what if he doesn't come down?
speaker2: he will.
speaker1: but what if he doesn't?
speaker2: we'll come back tomorrow.
speaker1: and wait again?
speaker2: look, you're going to have him all to yourself. what else do you want?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: sure i'm sure. that looks too much like him.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: when it's him it doesn't look like him.
speaker2: keep watching.

speaker1: what about here? 
speaker2: too busy. keep going.

speaker1: just keep walking or i'll kill you right here. 
speaker1: i said keep walking. this is a gun in my pocket and i've got nothing to lose.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: just keep walking and don't talk to anybody. i'll tell you what to do.
speaker1: get in!
speaker2: look, this is ...
speaker1: just shut up and get in.

speaker1: i didn't like being so rough out there, jerry. but i wanted you to know that i meant business. i didn't want anything happening to you over some misunderstanding. 
speaker1: now i know you're wondering what this is all about. actually you've got nothing to worry about. you just do what i tell you and by, say, midnight, you'll be safe and out of here. of course if you try anything clever, i'll kill you -- or marsha will. she knows how to use this too.
speaker2: you realize what you're saying.
speaker1: come on, jerry. this isn't a spur
speaker1: of the moment thing. give me a little credit, will you.
speaker1: sit down.
speaker1: now, you're going to call your office and tell them this: that unless a man who identifies himself as the king is allowed on the show tonight as the first guest, they'll never see you alive again.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'll say it again ...

speaker1: he says it's urgent. 
speaker2: yeah? well, tell him i'll call him back. it's that martino kid, the impressionist.

speaker1: yeah? ... okay, martino, let's stop the ... what? ... okay, i'm listening. 
speaker1: give me that again? ... wait a minute. what do we call our second cameraman?

speaker1: helen keller. 
speaker2: no tricks, jerry.

speaker1: don't do anything, jerry. stay right there. tell him we'll do anything he wants. tell him to cool it. are you okay? ... look, tell him to call us about five, okay. we'll let him know what to do. and don't do anything stupid. 
speaker1: thomas puts down the phone.
speaker1: vivien!
speaker1: get me the number of the f.b.i. right away. and get me crockett's office.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: looks fine.
speaker1: i had to guess on the sleeves. he gets to keep it, doesn't he?
speaker2: sure, if he isn't dead.

speaker1: this wasn't an easy decision for me, jerry, believe me. for one thing, i knew it meant we could never be friends again and that hurt me. it's hard to lose a friend, even one who has let you down. you always hope you can patch things up. you know, a guy like me doesn't make friends that easily. 
speaker1: why didn't you just listen to the tape when i asked you? then i wouldn't have to be doing all this. was it really too much to expect -- a few minutes of your time to listen to something i'd worked on my whole life?
speaker2: hey, if that's what's bothering you, let's go over to my office and listen to that tape right now.
speaker1: are you crazy, jerry? do you know what would happen to me?
speaker3: am i going to have to hold this thing all day?

speaker1: just keep it on him. you know, jerry. friendship is a two- way street. all that time i was worrying about you and your ratings and everything, you couldn't have cared less about me. 
speaker2: you're right. you know that? i was thoughtless. it's just that when you're doing a big show, it's hard to tell who your friends really are. i was wrong. i apologize. why don't we just shake hands and forget the whole thing?
speaker1: that's easy to say, jerry.
speaker2: but i mean it. i'll tell them that the whole thing was a joke and then we can go to my office and listen to that tape. come on. what do you say?
speaker3: sit down!
speaker3: i said
speaker3: all of a sudden, with a gun on him, he wants to make up and be friends. and, once he's out the door, what happens then?
speaker1: what happens then, jerry?

speaker1: you get to his office and they jump you, that's what happens, rupert. 
speaker2: she's right, jerry.
speaker3: not if i tell them not to. this is jerry, rupert, i give you my word.
speaker2: he gives me his word.
speaker1: yeah? and what else? come on, rupert, i'm sick of waiting.
speaker2: and what else, jerry?
speaker3: come on, rupert. my word's good enough, isn't it.
speaker2: no, jerry. it's not. keep the gun
speaker2: oh, no, jerry. none of that. now hold still.

speaker1: look, i tell you, the bureau is doing everything possible to locate mr. langford. right now our men are out checking out every radical group in this city. 
speaker2: radical?
speaker1: they're willing to sacrifice their leader in order to get their message across, aren't they? you've got to figure that this is a desperate outfit. i don't know who they are anymore than you do. but i do know i've got to stop them. otherwise, what you're seeing here is just the first of a whole wave of these kinds of kidnappings.
speaker3: does this mean we're not supposed to put him on?!?
speaker1: who am i addressing, please?
speaker4: that's bert thomas. he produces the show.
speaker1: i'm only saying, mr. thomas, that we can't allow this to reach the public. when the kidnappers call in, of course you're going to be cooperative. promise them anything they want. after all, this king character is going to have to show up sooner or later. and once we get our hands on him, he'll tell us where mr. langford is.

speaker1: sure. let him go on if you have to. it's just a taping. you can always erase him afterwards, can't you? all i'm saying is this: don't put him on the air. 
speaker2: that's fine, inspector, but let's say he finishes his bit and you've worked him over ...

speaker1: i would say no. 
speaker2: but they might kill jerry!
speaker3: okay, burt. thank you, inspector. we appreciate your position and we'll do all we can to cooperate with you. but i have to tell you right now that, if it comes down to it, we're not taking any chances with mr. langford's life.
speaker1: i understand but ...
speaker3: if your men haven't been able to locate mr. langford by air time, we're going to have to put this king guy on, no matter what he's said. after all, inspector, what's ten or fifteen minutes of talk show time against a man's life?

speaker1: open. bite ... good. 
speaker1: can you breathe? both ways? in and out?
speaker1: you've got until around midnight. have a good time. so long, jerry! wish me luck.

speaker1: i've got so much to tell you i just don't know what to begin with. are you okay? 
speaker1: good. tell me if you're not. i guess you're wondering why i do stuff like this. i think it's because i'm a leo, but my shrink says i'm pathologically rebellious and self-destructive. you don't think i'm self-destructive, do you?
speaker1: i knew you wouldn't. that's 'cause you're the only person in the world who really understands me.

speaker1: can randall sub for jerry? 
speaker2: his agent's calling us back but it looks good. i only told him jerry's sick.
speaker1: well, if worse comes to worse, canter can always carry it. let me see your list.
speaker1: any one of these a writer?
speaker2: mccabe. the vanishing siberian tiger.
speaker1: he's out.
speaker3: what if we don't run this king guy?
speaker1: we'll stretch the other guests. but i think we're going to wind up running him. for one thing, we've got to think about jerry.
speaker4: and from a news point of view, we've got a responsibility to air this story.
speaker1: exactly, lou. i mean, who would you rather watch -- some tiger expert or a live kidnapper.
speaker5: but nobody's going to know he's a kidnapper. they'll think we've gone crazy.
speaker1: then they'll read about it in the papers tomorrow and, believe me, tomorrow night, everyone in america will be watching
speaker1: jerry talk about his experience. and he can put this king guy on rerun.
speaker2: you're going to put him on twice?
speaker6: what if his stuff's unusable?
speaker7: and remember what patten said about ...
speaker1: hold on. we can always edit the guy. and, as for a wave of these things, i just don't buy the idea that there are that many people out there crazy enough to spend their lives in prison for a few minutes on television.

speaker1: good evening, officer. this is the backstage door i take it? 
speaker2: your name please?
speaker1: clarence mccabe, the writer. and this is mrs. mccabe and her parents, mr. and mrs. leroy solters of cleveland.

speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. i don't see you here. 
speaker2: i'm on the show tonight, officer.
speaker1: well, you're not here.
speaker2: look, cathy long gave me instructions to present myself at a quarter to six.
speaker1: i'm under strictest orders tonight to admit only authorized personnel.
speaker2: this is absurd. wait right here. mccabe marches past the guard and rushes to the backstage door. he opens it. the guard trails behind.
speaker1: stop him!

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker1: i'm the king.
speaker2: yeah?

speaker1: i'm the king. 
speaker2: what are you doing here, mr. pupkin?!?!

speaker1: i hope you brought me the right guy this time. where's jerry langford? 
speaker2: are you on the show?
speaker1: no, mr. king. that's my assistant, mr. giardello.
speaker2: i want to see someone on the show.
speaker1: well, you tell us where mr. langford is and we'll let you see anyone you want.
speaker2: just get me someone from the show.
speaker1: come on, mr. king. let's not fool around. should we know about any of these people?
speaker2: that's orson bean.
speaker1: i see. check these out.

speaker1: now are you going to talk to us, or not? 
speaker2: sure i'll talk. just get me someone from the show.
speaker1: get that thomas guy in here.
speaker1: we haven't much time, mr. king.
speaker1: let's start with your name.
speaker2: rupert pupkin.
speaker1: that's your real name?
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: you an american?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: then why do you people do these things?
speaker2: are you on the show?
speaker3: yes. i'm bert thomas.
speaker2: here's the introduction to my act. please make sure mr. randall follows it exactly as i've written it.

speaker1: okay. how about helping us, mr. king? 
speaker2: what about make-up? i need make-up.
speaker1: put some color in his cheeks.

speaker1: it was the second lead! i'd never gotten a part in my life and here i get the second lead. and what does daddy say? 
speaker1: not "marsha, that's wonderful" or "we're proud of you" or anything. oh no. he starts lecturing me on how i should have tried out for emily! now do you understand, jerry!
speaker1: my doctor says i shouldn't get excited.
speaker1: this is the best i ever made it. you want some?
speaker1: now open. marsha's going to feed her jerry.

speaker1: how about it, king? 
speaker2: if i'm not on that show, jerry langford is dead, i promise you.

speaker1: good evening, ladies and gentlemen. thank you. thank you very much. i have some sad news for you. earlier today, my writing staff was executed in central park by the network firing squad so there'll be no sensational randall monologue this evening. 
speaker1: no embarrassing displays of emotion, please. instead, we're going to do something a little bit different this evening -- a lot different if you ask me. we're going to give you a glimpse into the future. it isn't often that you can call someone a sure thing in the entertainment business. after all, the verdict is always in your hands. but i think tonight, after you've met my first guest, you'll agree with me that he's destined for greatness -- in one way or another. so will you please give your warmest greeting to the newest king of comedy, rupert pupkin!!!!
speaker1: for what seems like an eternity.

speaker1: good evening, ladies and gentleman. let me introduce myself. my name is rupert pupkin. i was born in clifton, new jersey, which was not, at that time, a federal offense. is there anyone here from clifton? good. we can all relax. now, i'd like to begin by saying that my parents were too poor to afford me a childhood but the fact is nobody is allowed to be really poor in clifton. once you fall below eleven thousand you're exiled to passaic. my parents did, in fact, put down the first two payments on my childhood. then they tried to return me to the hospital as defective. but, like everyone else i grew up in large part thanks to my mother. if she was only here today i'd say, "hey, mom. what are you doing here? you've been dead for nine years?" you should have seen my mother. she was wonderful -- blonde, beautiful, intelligent, alcoholic. we used to drink milk together after school. mine was homogenized. hers was loaded. once she was picked up for speeding. they clocked her doing fifty -- in our garage. when they tested her they found that her alcohol was two per cent blood. they took away her license and she died shortly afterwards. we used to joke together mom and me, until the tears would stream down her face and she'd 
speaker1: throw up. and who would clean it up? not dad. he was too busy down at o'grady's throwing up on his own. in fact, until i was sixteen, i thought throwing up was a sign of maturity. while the other kids were off in the woods sneaking cigarettes, i was hiding behind the house with my fingers down my throat. i never got anywhere until one day, my father caught me. just as he was giving me a final kick in the stomach, for luck, i managed to heave all over his new shoes. "that's it," i thought. "i've made it. i'm finally a man!" as it turned out, that was the only time my father ever paid any real attention to me. he was usually too busy out in the park playing ball with my sister, rose. and, today thanks to those many hours of practice, my sister rose has grown into a fine man. me, i wasn't especially interested in athletics. the only exercise i ever got was when the other kids picked on me. they used to beat me up once a week, usually tuesday. after a while, the school worked it into the curriculum. and, if you knocked me out, you got extra credit. except there was this one kid who was afraid of me. i kept telling him, "hit me! hit me! what's the matter with you? don't you want graduate?" as for me, i was the only kid in the history of the school to graduate in traction. the school nurse tucked my diploma into my sling. but my only real interest, right from the beginning, was show business. even as a young man, i began at the very top, collecting autographs.

speaker1: we can do it again. 
speaker2: i'd like to show you my gratitude. but it's a little difficult, like this.
speaker3: let's say i took all this off. what would you do to me? tell me.

speaker1: who did you get? 
speaker1: could i have a ride?
speaker1: i've never been in one.

speaker1: okay, pupkin. we'll start all over again. where is langford? you know, we're going to find him sooner or later. 
speaker2: i'm trying to tell you, inspector. you let me walk out of here, right? and as soon as i'm seen my act on the show -- as soon as i'm sure they've really put it on -- i'll tell you where jerry is and you'll get him back safe and sound.
speaker1: fine, pupkin. then why don't you watch the show here with us? that way we're all happy. what channel?
speaker3: seven.

speaker1: we get that one in fine. so what do you say, pupkin? 
speaker2: look, i'll say it again. you let me go now.

speaker1: watch my hair! 
speaker2: i'm sorry, baby.
speaker1: ow!
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: still nothing. 
speaker2: i've got to get out of here.
speaker3: you're not going anywhere, pupkin.
speaker2: i'm telling you, inspector, if i don't see that show
speaker3: just where is it you want to watch this show?

speaker1: ow! damnit! not so fast! 
speaker2: we haven't all night, baby.

speaker1: here we, are, pupkin. i don't know what this is all about, but as soon as you've seen yourself, you're going to talk to us or i promise you, you'll never see daylight again. 
speaker2: i'll need a couple of minutes, inspector.

speaker1: after it's over, i want a couple of minutes. and i'll need ten dollars. does anyone of you gentlemen have my wallet? 
speaker2: don't push me, pupkin.
speaker1: a condemned man's last request, inspector.
speaker2: well, i'll tell you right away, the answer is no, pupkin.
speaker1: it's not much of a ransom, inspector ...
speaker2: look, i'm drawing the line, that's all! no ten dollars and that's it. no -- ten -- dollars!!!!
speaker1: sure. sure, inspector. no ten dollars ...
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: ... and no jerry langford.
speaker1: come on, it's getting late, inspector.
speaker2: go ahead. give him his ten dollars! give him twenty! i don't care. just get him out of here!

speaker1: turn on langford. seven. 
speaker2: hey! i'm watching
speaker2: i was here first, mister. you can't just walk in like this. it isn't fair.

speaker1: oh, baby. baby. 
speaker2: stop!
speaker1: ow!
speaker1: don't be afraid of marsha, baby.

speaker1: half-stewed woman it's a trick, that's what about 
speaker2: come on, rita. don't spoil the party. drinks all around on me.
speaker3: in a loud voice, to half-
speaker4: what about the hundred and fifty?
speaker5: i'm okay. thanks, pal.
speaker1: me, too.
speaker1: of violence courtesy of tony curtis as the boston
speaker2: i don't suppose you're allowed anything. i guess nobody's in a celebrating mood. how about you? you want something?
speaker6: it's getting time, pupkin.
speaker2: in a second.
speaker7: that was true, wasn't it? ... about the kidnapping.
speaker2: now you can say you knew me. that's something, anyway.
speaker6: come on, pupkin.
speaker2: i guess i've got go. take care of yourself, will you. and when you're bored -- you know, when you're brushing your teeth or something, give me a thought, okay?
speaker7: okay.
speaker8: it's okay to talk about my sister, but we can't say nuthin' about phil, is that it?
speaker3: she's just had one too many.
speaker3: the plainclothesmen lead pupkin onto the street.

speaker1: i just don't get it, pupkin. you're gonna spend eight years in the can -- "minimum" -- and for what? 
speaker2: yeah, pupkin. you threw it all away.
speaker3: we'll see.

speaker1: and now! direct from new york! the jerry langford show, starring jerry's special guest, out on bail, rupert pupkin, the kidnapping king of comedy!!!! 
speaker2: december 15, 1976 draft screenplay by paul d. zimmerman

