speaker1: pull over, man! 
speaker2: no way, i can out-run 'em!
speaker1: no you can't--not in this thing!

speaker1: oh now there's two of 'em! 
speaker2: i don't care--i'm not stopping 'til we get there!
speaker1: are you crazy?!
speaker2: yeah, i'm crazy! i'm crazy about my wife!

speaker1: see the stud in the blue shorts? that's me the summer i got out of college. 
speaker2: wow, dad, you used to have muscles.
speaker1: i still have a few.
speaker3: where?
speaker1: they're hidden.
speaker4: who's that girl?
speaker1: that's mommy.
speaker4: no, i mean the young one standing next to you.
speaker1: that's mommy.
speaker4: mommy used to have long hair? and she wore a bikini?
speaker1: yes she did.

speaker1: how come she doesn't wear a bikini anymore? 
speaker2: is it because of her fat ass?
speaker3: i guess. what? no. who said mommy's got a fat ass?
speaker2: mommy.

speaker1: well, uh, i don't appreciate that language, gunnar. you've got the best mom in the whole world--don't ever say anything bad about her. 
speaker1: hey beautiful, you better get a move on--we're supposed to be meeting fred and grace soon.
speaker2: i know, i know, i'm trying.
speaker1: well how long you gonna be?
speaker2: forty-five minutes--sooner if you help with the kids.
speaker1: forty-five minutes is good.
speaker1: i'm kidding. okay, kids, first one in the tub gets college paid for.
speaker1: come on, you bums, let's go!

speaker1: i miss going out with you on saturday nights. 
speaker2: i know, it's just like the old days.
speaker1: maybe we should make a rule that we go out at least six nights a week without the kids.
speaker1: i'm serious. we should go out every week--just you and me.
speaker1: i think it'd be healthy.
speaker2: you gotta be kidding me?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you just checked out that girl's
speaker1: i did?
speaker2: yeah, you did, and it's rude.
speaker1: why? you think she saw me?
speaker2: saw you.

speaker1: oh, uh, yeah. i'm sorry, honey, i'm just kind of spacey today. 
speaker2: come on, we're late!
speaker3: grace, let me ask you something: does fred ever check out other women in front of you?
speaker2: no, fred's not a gawker.
speaker2: come on, mags, let's go say hi to dr. lucy.
speaker4: there they are!
speaker2: dr. lucy! congratulations!
speaker5: girls, thank you so much for coming.
speaker3: are you kidding me? you're the only friend of ours who ever got an award--you think we're going to miss that?
speaker6: do you mind telling me how your wife catches you checking out another girl? what is this, amateur hour?

speaker1: the girl walked past and i glanced back at her for like half a second. 
speaker2: there's your problem, dumb-ass-- it's the wrong order. you don't wait for the girl to walk past and then glance back. you turn when she's still fifteen feet in front of you...then you wait for her to walk into your line of vision.
speaker2: observe.
speaker2: you see? i can't help it if her walks where i'm already looking.
speaker1: it was your air space.
speaker3: hey, guys.
speaker4: hey, missy.
speaker5: don't forget to mingle!
speaker2: wow. missy's looking pretty good for someone going through a divorce.
speaker1: yeah, that's rough stuff--i heard they might have to sell the house.
speaker2: too bad. you gonna hit 'em up for the listing?

speaker1: what am i, a vulture? nah, i don't go after the divorcee business unless they approach me first. 
speaker2: yeah, it's kind of tacky, huh?
speaker3: look at those two meatheads checking out missy frankenfield. what, do they think they're invisible over there?
speaker4: i thought you said fred wasn't a gawker.
speaker3: he was standing right next to you. i can't let him know that i know-- that would take all the fun out of it.
speaker3: you should see him. he's got some stupid move where he looks back before the girl passes to make it seem like he couldn't help but notice her ass. it's pathetic.

speaker1: how about i drive the babysitter home while you go upstairs and prepare the altar? 
speaker2: i want to, honey, but i've got to get up early with the kids.
speaker1: i'll get up with the kids.
speaker2: but i have to go out and buy a gift- -they're going to a birthday party tomorrow.

speaker1: i'll cjet the gift, then i'll take the kids to the park, then to the party. you can dust stay in bed,, get your beauty sleep, and bask in the sweet, sweet pounding i'm about to give you. 
speaker2: i love it when you sweet-talk me.

speaker1: mommy! daddy! 
speaker2: little buddy.. .what are you doing up?
speaker2: this is just a minor obstacle.

speaker1: how were the kids tonight? 
speaker2: perfect. that gunnar is so cute-- all he wants to do is wrestle with me.
speaker2: mr. mills, would it be okay to turn down the air--i'm a little chilly. look--i got goose bumps.

speaker1: oh, uh, sure, i'm sorry. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: 'welcome.

speaker1: mr. mills, can i ask you something? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: i was wondering...
speaker1: .could you buy me some beer?
speaker2: buy you some.. .how old are you?
speaker1: twenty. but i'm turning twenty-one next week.
speaker2: oh. happy birthday. that's a biggie.
speaker1: yeah. my aunt usually buys beer for me, but she's out of town.
speaker1: so. . .could ya?
speaker2: uh, i don't know, paige...i could get in a lot of trouble for giving alcohol to a minor.
speaker1: oh, come on, i'm a junior in college. you drank when you were in college, didn't you?

speaker1: well, uh... 
speaker2: besides, it's so arbitrary. how does it make sense that twenty's old enough to fight in iraq or watch a movie, but it's too young to drink a beer?
speaker1: really? twenty's old enough to uh...?
speaker2: fight in iraq?
speaker1: no, the other thing.
speaker2: watch porn? oh, yeah--half the girls in those things are my age.
speaker2: look, i promise no one's gonna find out. if you want, you can join me down at the lake--we'll listen to some tunes and have a couple beers.
speaker1: i'm sorry, paige, i can't do that.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: well... it would be.. .inappropriate.
speaker2: what, is that your grown-up voice?
speaker2: that would be inappropriate, paige.

speaker1: no, paige. what are you thinking? i'm a married man and i have a family. you think they'd like it if they knew i was hanging out at the lake, all alone, drinking beer with a college girl? 
speaker2: she seems taken aback.
speaker3: i never said alone. my sorority's having a party down there tonight.
speaker1: all right, better get inside.
speaker3: ewww. what the were you thinking?
speaker1: go ahead. scoot along now.

speaker1: shhhh. he just fell asleep. 
speaker2: awesome.

speaker1: can i sleep with you tonight? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: please.
speaker2: no. absolutely not.

speaker1: are you serious? look, besides the other thing, i don't like the fact that my daughter needs someone to sleep with every night--that's not going to be good when she goes off to college, you know. 
speaker2: well.. .can someone read me a story?
speaker1: okay, one quick story. come on, jump on my back.
speaker1: you can get started without me-- i'll be right back.
speaker1: okay, honey, this is the last pony and then night-night.
speaker2: there. you look pretty, daddy.
speaker1: okay, now give me a kiss, hug and go to sleep.
speaker1: i love you, emma.
speaker2: i love you, too, daddy.

speaker1: his pov - maggie lays in bed, fast asleep. 
speaker2: no. please, no.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey. how'd you make out?
speaker1: great. lost both sets.
speaker2: so'd you get the business?
speaker1: pretty sure i got the auto and home. he told me to call his accountant on monday about the life.
speaker2: nice.
speaker1: can you believe the talent here today?
speaker2: yeah. i know. they notice something o.s..
speaker1: ouch.
speaker3: rick sighs.
speaker2: cpr girl's back, too.
speaker1: imagine if we were coming here back when we were single?
speaker2: oh baby, the damage we would do.
speaker4: monkey bars!
speaker5: me first!

speaker1: so you get lucky last night? 
speaker2: nah, the kids were up when we got home. how 'bout you?
speaker1: well, kinda lucky. grace conked right out so i snuck out to the car and rubbed one out.
speaker2: the car? what are you knight rider? why didn't you just go in the bathroom like a normal guy?
speaker1: and get caught by grace? can't risk it. besides, cars turn me on--it's where i lost my virginity. and they're comfy--i just put the seat back and turn on the tunes.
speaker2: that's one of the things they don't tell you when you're young--that you'll still be jerking-off after you get married. i thought it was dust gonna be a teenage thing.

speaker1: yeah, i didn't see that one coming. 
speaker1: you know what i miss the most?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the arch.
speaker2: what arch?
speaker1: you know when you're taking a girl's off for the first time, and you're wondering if she's going to stop you, but then she gives you that little pelvic arch- thrust that tells you that the struggle's over, everything's going to be okay?
speaker2: that's a happy moment.
speaker1: yep. another thing gone forever.
speaker2: i should get going, i have to drop the kids off at a birthday party.
speaker1: you want to grab a coffee after?

speaker1: do you have any interest in going down to the patriot's training camp one of these days? 
speaker2: are you kidding, i'd love that. except...i always feel kind of pathetic waiting in line for tom brady's autograph.

speaker1: fred, i was planning on bringing the kids. 
speaker2: genius! that's the perfect cover!
speaker1: uh-oh...
speaker2: did you see her face? her face is tremendous.
speaker1: please don't have a nice ass, please don't have a nice ass...
speaker3: oh, come on! that's ri iculous.
speaker2: i know. she's from australia. been working here about a month.
speaker1: why'd you have to bring me here?!
speaker2: okay, cool it, tiger--here she comes.
speaker4: iced coffee with two splendas again?
speaker4: how about your mate there?
speaker1: uh...same.

speaker1: hey, old navy, you like a muffin with that? 
speaker2: uh, sure. what do you recommend?
speaker1: they're all good.
speaker3: i'd go with the bran muffin--you guys are probably having digestive issues at your age, right?
speaker2: i'll have a blueberry muffin please.
speaker4: make it a bran muffin for me.

speaker1: did you notice she's from cleavage, ohio? 
speaker2: yeah. i bet her areolas look like a couple of pepperoni slices.

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: shh. i'm taking a mental photograph for my spank bank.
speaker2: say cheese.
speaker3: christ, guys, give it a rest.

speaker1: oh, hey, ed. didn't see you there. 
speaker2: that's because you were shooting laser beams at the java babe.
speaker1: well, no, we were just--
speaker2: come on, gentlemen, you're married men and she's half your age--grow
speaker2: so i guess i'll be seeing you at the house-warming party this weekend.
speaker1: hm?
speaker2: this saturday afternoon at the new casa--we're inally in and we're having a little celebration.
speaker1: oh, i don't know if we can--
speaker2: your wives already rsvp'd.
speaker1: right on.
speaker2: 'til then.
speaker2: come on, pound the potato.
speaker3: what a d-bag.
speaker1: he's right though.

speaker1: what are we doing sitting here gawking at her for? we're married men--it's creepy. 
speaker2: i don't see what the big deal is-- we're not hurting anyone. what is he big brother--he's gonna tell me what i can look at now? for sakes, don't take that away from me- -it's all i got!

speaker1: rick, you open. 
speaker2: four 9's.
speaker3: hey, where's coakley? how come he didn't show?
speaker4: vegas. hawaiian tropic finals.
speaker1: man, imagine being coakley? the guy's single, he's loaded, chicks love him, he doesn't have to answer to anybody.
speaker4: that's the life.
speaker3: that is the life.
speaker5: let me ask you something: what would you guys pay to have your way with a hawaiian tropic girl for an entire weekend?

speaker1: you get to pick any one you want-- and you know up front that you won't get her pregnant, no diseases, you're never gonna hear from her again, and your wife will never find out. 
speaker2: how's it possible to know that my wife won't find out?
speaker1: it's not. i'm saying if it were possible, like if i was a magic genie and i could grant you this wish but then make it like it never even happened.
speaker3: but would i still have memory of it?
speaker1: oh yeah. great memories.
speaker2: oof. i think i'd pay 500 bucks for that.
speaker4: you cheap,bastard. we're talking about an investment that gets your rocks off and protects your wife's feelings. i'd pay five grand.
speaker5: wow.
speaker2: well, excuse me, mr. wall street, but us public school teachers aren't getting any of that bail-out money you're over-tipping everyone with.
speaker6: hey, guys.
speaker5: oh, hey, honey. how was the book club?
speaker6: great.
speaker7: what did you guys read this month?

speaker1: hemingway. 
speaker2: old man and the sea?
speaker1: no, muriel's yoga book.
speaker1: actually, we were supposed to be discussing the sun also rises but grace pulled out a bottle of tequila and that was the end of that. so, did the kids go down easy?
speaker3: gunnar and emma stalled for a while, but they weren't bad.
speaker1: how about the baby?
speaker3: not a peep.
speaker1: great job. now win some money, honey.
speaker2: i wish i could drink tequila. it's a great buzz but it always gives me the spins and then i have to go home early.
speaker4: you want to know a sure cure for the spins?
speaker4: just cover up one eye. it balances out the equilibrium.
speaker3: or you could find a nice 12-step program.

speaker1: oh, you poor thing... 
speaker1: silly daddy... he got the monitors mixed-up. have you been listening to those loud-mouths all night?
speaker2: .so how 'bout you, fred--how much would you pay to s end an entire weekend with one of the hottest women in the world?
speaker3: i wouldn't have to pay--i'm married to her.
speaker3: no, seriously, i'd pay five grand, easy.

speaker1: i'd have to figure out a way to get it out of the bank without grace noticing, but i suppose the genie could help me with that. 
speaker2: you could put me down for seven- five.
speaker3: pfttt. hog-head, your doesn't have seven-five.

speaker1: so what's your number, rick? 
speaker2: oh jeez, flats, i don't know...
speaker3: come on.. any girl you choose. you get to do anything you want with her, and your wife will never find out. it's completely harmless, a one-time thing--what would you pay for that?
speaker2: i honestly don't know, fellas.
speaker4: ballpark.
speaker2: well... i've got a great wife and i sure wouldn't want to hurt her feelings, so...
speaker2: i guess the real question is, what wouldn't i pay?!

speaker1: what wouldn't you pay?! 
speaker2: i didn't really mean it, honey. they kind of put me on the spot. look, some of the other guys were throwing out some pretty hefty bids.
speaker1: what does that have to do with anything?
speaker2: well... i'm the host of the party, i didn't want to be a buzz-kill.
speaker3: maggie squints, appalled.
speaker2: look, all i was saying was, there's no amount of money i wouldn't pay to protect you and the kids.
speaker1: how is having with a protecting me and the kids?
speaker2: no one said anything about hookers.
speaker1: you were paying for sex--what would you call her?
speaker2: well.. .the genie was getting the dough, not her.
speaker2: love you!

speaker1: fred said five grand? what a blowhard! 
speaker2: you know what's even funnier? hog- head mccormick said he'd pay seven grand.
speaker1: what?! that hasn't worked since the dot-com bust--his wife supports him!
speaker1: well, look on the bright side: at least they're not cheating on us.
speaker2: sometimes i wonder if it would be better if they did cheat and get it over with.

speaker1: you mean, rather than take the slow boat to resentment? 
speaker2: i'm just saying.. .maybe a little freedom would be good for them. and for you.
speaker2: have you ever considered giving them a hall pass?
speaker3: a what?
speaker1: a hall pass. a week off from marriage.
speaker4: wait a minute. . .are you saying let them go out and cheat?
speaker1: i'm saying give them a week off from marriage.
speaker1: look, most married men have foggy memories of their single days and they somehow get under the impression that if not for you, they'd be able to be with ail those women who entice them.
speaker3: that's fred. he thinks because he sees big everywhere and then still comes home for dinner that i should be welcoming him at the door like some conquering hero.
speaker1: well, maybe it's time to let them go out there and find out what it's really like.
speaker4: wow. you're talking about the nuclear option.
speaker3: and remind me again, what good could possibly come from this...?

speaker1: there's a wonderful principle in psychology called 'reactance theory.' it basically states that if you're constantly told you can't do something, you want to do it more than ever. and conversely, if you remove the taboo, you remove the obsession. 
speaker2: i got an idea, doc: why don't you try a hall pass out on your husband and let us know how it works out.
speaker1: oh, i have.
speaker3: you're telling us you let charlie sleep with another woman?
speaker1: i am not telling you that. i am telling you that i gave him the freedom to choose for himself.
speaker2: and...?
speaker1: all i know is...our marriage is better than ever.
speaker2: i don't know. there's a reason that men evolved and apes didn't. it's because women demanded more. without a wife, einstein would've been a maple tree all day.

speaker1: i call it headquarters. 
speaker2: un-believable.
speaker1: that's sweet of you to say, mandy.
speaker3: it's epic, ed.
speaker1: and this over here--this is the war room. the temperature in there never goes above fifty-four degrees, never below fifty-three. i even threw in a back-up generator in case we lose power and the main generator doesn't kick in. now who wants a cubano? they're the real deal--coakley snagged them on his trip to havana.
speaker4: wait a second, ed, first i want to show them lny headquarters.

speaker1: it's my paradise. 
speaker2: with a price tag north of one hundred and forty large, it better be paradise.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i can't take these look-at-how-much- i-own parties. it's obnoxious.
speaker2: when i bought my completely-loaded honda odyssey, i didn't go around bragging about it, did i?
speaker1: well, kind of. you made me drive around town with you for two hours, remember?
speaker2: i thought you'd want to watch a movie in a mini-van. you never got to watch a movie in a mini-van before, did you?
speaker1: why'd you have to hook your boat up to it?
speaker2: because it's the touring edition, numb-skull. the thing can tow more weight than ninety percent of the pick-ups out there!

speaker1: the mantle actually came all the way from tuscany, which is in europe. 
speaker2: hey, gang, check this out.

speaker1: oh my this is like secret agent stuff. 
speaker2: i think having a safe room is a bit over the top, but ed feels with our two little ones you can never be too cautious.
speaker3: aw, you're such a good daddy.
speaker1: rick can't even set up the baby monitors right.
speaker4: here come tweedle-dee and tweedle- dum.
speaker5: .all i'm saying is, who gets a mini-van when you don't even have any kids?
speaker6: you don't know much about the insurance game, do you, rick? when you pull into a person's driveway to sell them life insurance, who do you think they'd rather see? a hot- shot in a porsche or a family man in a mini-van? hm?
speaker5: hey, where'd everyone go?

speaker1: guys, we're in here! 
speaker2: they can't hear you. the room's completely soundproof.
speaker3: and bulletproof.
speaker4: they must've gone downstairs.
speaker5: thanks for coming to the war room, old chap. by the way, did i mention that my wife's never goes above fifty-four degrees, nor below fifty-three.

speaker1: is that so, dear boy? and what happens if you lose power during a big blow and your main generator doesn't kick in? 
speaker2: well that's why i had the back-up generator installed in kimmy's rumpus.
speaker3: here we go...

speaker1: hey, speaking of installations, is that a shiny new set of cans on mandy bohac? 
speaker2: either that or she's wearing her daughter's t-shirt.

speaker1: they look good but i'll still take the real deal any day. 
speaker2: right. you're telling me you'd take kimmy long's flapjacks over mandy's new speedbags?
speaker1: that's what i'm telling you. i like with a little mileage on 'em.
speaker2: fun?
speaker1: yeah. you can smoosh 'em, swing 'em, hump 'em, stretch-armstrong 'em.
speaker2: and what about the proven correlation between floppy and large-mouth vaginas?

speaker1: you people are horrible! horrible! 
speaker2: i'm very disappointed, gentlemen!

speaker1: you know what really troubles me? the thing that you're all so obsessed with is meaningless to you. it's really just about numbers with you guys. 
speaker1: rick, you can't even tel me the month you lost your virginity. i can tell you the exact day and hour that i lost mine.
speaker2: well, virginity is different for guys.
speaker1: the point is, obviously i like sex, too--it means something to me--but i don't walk around gawking at every guy i see.
speaker2: all right, so i occasionally notice other women. i'm sorry.
speaker1: occasionally?

speaker1: okay, you want the truth? you really want me to pull back the curtain here? from the moment i leave the house in the morning 'til the moment i get home, i pretty much notice every woman in my path. 
speaker1: but it's not how you think it is, mags. it's like... it's like a curse. i don't want to notice, but i can't help it. it's always been like that. i figured that when i c jot married that would be it, but it wasn't--the thing,doesn't give two about marriage.
speaker2: so what are you saying--you're not happy with our life?
speaker1: no. of course i'm happy, honey--our life is great--not that i wouldn't mind a little more, but-- look, one thing has nothing to do with the other. i think about a lot--all guys do--that's just the way it is.
speaker2: i'm giving you a hall pass.
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: one week off from marriage.
speaker1: you mean, like a trial separation?
speaker2: it's not a separation, it's a hall pass. you can do whatever you want.
speaker1: wait a minute--are you for real?

speaker1: 'morning. 
speaker2: there's a couple hard-boiled eggs in a bowl there for you.
speaker1: i'm gonna have to take them to go, hon, i've got a showing in fifteen minutes.
speaker1: hey, about this hall pass business.. .1 don't want it and i don't need it. all i need is--
speaker2: i told you, this isn't negotiable.
speaker1: you're really serious about this?
speaker2: rick, this isn't something that i...look, i really think you need this. i think we need this.
speaker2: this afternoon i'm taking the kids out to my parent's beach house.
speaker1: for how long?

speaker1: hey, what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i called your office and they told me you were in the neighborhood.
speaker1: oh, this is a friend of mine, fred searing. fred, this is harold and nancy goldberg--they're moving up here from long island.
speaker2: well, mazel tov, folks.
speaker2: here, let me give you my card. home, auto, or life insurance--i'm the go-to mensch in town.
speaker3: we're good on insurance.
speaker1: uh, why don't you two take another look around and if you have any questions i'll be right here.
speaker3: thank you.

speaker1: what the he 1 are you doing--i'm trying to make a sale here. 
speaker2: you weren't picking up your cell--i wanted to see how much trouble you got in last night. you know what grace made me do? she made me call the longs and apologize.
speaker1: oof .
speaker2: how 'bout you--did maggie freak out when you got home?
speaker1: uh... sort of.
speaker1: she gave me a hall pass.
speaker2: a what?
speaker1: a week off from marriage to do whatever i want. she's going to her parents' house down the cape 'til next sunday.
speaker2: yeah, right.
speaker1: i'm serious.
speaker2: you're full of
speaker1: fred, it's true. you think i could make something like this up?
speaker2: i don't get it--why aren't you more excited?
speaker1: well...i don't know how i feel.

speaker1: about...? 
speaker2: the hall pass. something about it isn't right.
speaker1: you mean, like, you think maggie might have a brain tumor or something?
speaker2: no. i mean, just because my wife tells me it's okay to cheat... is it?
speaker1: uh, yeah.
speaker1: why can't you just accept the fact that your wife is a saint, rick? she's evolved. don't you see?
speaker2: yeah, but there's a part of me that's saying, 'wow, you must have pushed her pretty hard to get her to this point.' and is that good for a marriage? that your wife is willing to try something this insane?
speaker1: absolutely!
speaker1: come on, doesn't it bother you that our wives dreams all come true, but ours don't? look at maggie; when she was a kid she played house--you g a ve her a house. she played with her e-z-bake oven--you bought her a viking. she played mommy--you made her a mommy.
speaker2: the oven's a ge.
speaker1: it's a real gas oven! and what about you, huh? come on, man, your wife is living her dreams.. .and now it's time for you to live yours.

speaker1: i don't know, i think this is some very forward-thinking on maggie's part. 
speaker2: quit lobbying--you're not getting a hall pass. and you mark my words, this is going to end up biting maggie in the ass.
speaker1: why would i need a hall pass? i've got you.
speaker2: not tonight you don't. i'm too bloated and i have cramps.
speaker1: i don't mind.
speaker2: fred, do i have to spell it out for you? i'm having my period.
speaker1: yeah, i got that.
speaker2: come on, hon, give me a break. not tonight.
speaker1: oh, shit--i forgot to take the trash out.

speaker1: all right, ma'am, if you say he's yours.. .you can have him. 
speaker2: thank you, officers.

speaker1: i got a hall pass! 
speaker2: how?
speaker1: doesn't matter how. i got one. can you believe it?! i got a hall pass!
speaker2: and i've got a hall pass!
speaker1: we both have hall passes!

speaker1: when does yours start? 
speaker2: twenty-three minutes ago! she just left for the cape--she's staying with maggie. it's just you and me for the next six days!
speaker1: oh my do you realize how much easier this is going to make it-- having a hall pass partner?
speaker2: and it's not just me--baker, gary, and hog-head are coming out with us tonight!
speaker1: no way?! they got hall passes, too?!
speaker2: no, no, no--they just want to watch.
speaker1: you think that's a good idea, letting them in on it? what if they blab and it gets around town--it might embarrass our wives.
speaker2: don't worry, i already talked to them. their lips are sealed.
speaker2: we're living the dream, baby!

speaker1: five mgd's, my friend. 
speaker1: the guy at the holiday inn express told me this place really kicks in around nine-thirty.
speaker2: hey, why are you staying at a hotel if your wives are out of town?
speaker3: well, we can't very well take babes back to our places--if they know where we live they might end up stalking us.
speaker1: besides, i wouldn't be able to concentrate with all the pictures everywhere and the kids' cut-outs all over the fridge.
speaker4: yeah, isn't it weird how your own kids can creep you out sometimes?
speaker3: i get the feeling there's a lot of divorcees in this place.
speaker5: that's good. divorcees are into sex--that's why they're divorced.
speaker5: so come on, point out which girls you guys are gonna do tonight.
speaker4: what about those two? why don't you bang them?
speaker3: no way. they're doing the

speaker1: okay, how about the blonde hostess? maybe somebody should nail her, huh? 
speaker2: attempt to be cool, gary--we've got a whole week.
speaker3: are you guys sure that applebee's is the best place to be picking up women?
speaker2: what are you thinking--olive garden?
speaker1: nah, that's only good on thursday nights.
speaker4: hey, what about the auto show?
speaker3: are you guys for real?
speaker1: wait a second--where's coakley?
speaker3: he's in iceland.
speaker2: what's he doing there?
speaker3: what do you think he's doing there?
speaker2: look, before we go bagging any chicks, i gotta get a hunk of beef in me.
speaker1: hey, i got a guy over at outback steak house who could set us up.
speaker3: ooooh, he's got pull over at outback. wow.
speaker2: hey, i like outback. let's chug these and hit the road.

speaker1: i think we might've made a huge mistake. 
speaker2: stop thinking about it, grace. why don t you just try to get some sleep?
speaker1: sleep? i can't sleep. i don't understand you--how can you just sit there and read knowing that rick could be making out with a supermodel right now?
speaker1: our husbands aren't married this week. do you know what husbands do when they're not married?
speaker2: shh. you're going to wake the kids.
speaker1: are you going to sit there and tell me you're not the least bit concerned about what they're doing right now?
speaker2: okay... i'm a little concerned.
speaker3: grace flops into the chair across from her.
speaker2: of course i'm concerned. but what choice did we have?
speaker1: we could've kept the status quo. i mean, were things really that bad that we had to try something this extreme?
speaker2: for me they were.
speaker2: look, you may call this a hall pass, but for me it's more of a hail mary pass. i'm serious, i don't know what else to do.
speaker2: remember last week when we went to lucy's award thing?
speaker2: that night when we got home, rick and i were gonna.. .you know... and i was waiting for him in bed while he tucked the kids in, and i started wondering who he would be thinking about during sex. would it be the girl he checked out on the way into the party? or would it be missy frankenfield--because i noticed him gawking at her? or how about one of the waitresses, or maybe somebody he saw at work that day? then when he came into the room, i did something i'd never done before: i pretended to be asleep.
speaker1: you're kidding me? you've never done that? i do that all the time!
speaker2: look, i understand that people have fantasies and that you're not always thinking about the person you're with.
speaker1: that's for sure.
speaker2: but it's just...i don't know... it's been too long since i felt that he was thinking about me.
speaker4: they sit there for a moment, quiet. then:
speaker2: i need this hall pass to work, grace, because if it doesn't, i don't know what's going to happen.

speaker1: okay... so where to now? 
speaker2: fred...?
speaker3: hm?
speaker2: answer baker.
speaker3: what's the question?
speaker2: what are we doing for the rest of the night?
speaker3: i don't know. getting laid, right?
speaker4: i gotta go home and poo.
speaker1: now?
speaker4: yeah, i put too much hollandaise on the mozzarella sticks.
speaker5: why don't you just back one out here?
speaker4: i'm pretty sure i'm gonna need a bath afterwards.
speaker6: baker musters some initiative and stands up.
speaker1: come on, you guys! i say we go to a strip club and smoke cigars-- that 11 wake us up!
speaker2: i got a better idea.
speaker2: let's go night-night.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i say we tie a bow on it and put her to bed. this is gonna be a long week so we should pace ourselves.
speaker1: it's only nine-thirty!
speaker3: i'm with rico.
speaker3: freddy tie-tie.
speaker5: are you guys serious?
speaker2: relax, guys, this is just the calm before the storm. get out the plywood and batten down the hatches.
speaker3: that's right. tonight we build up strength, tomorrow we make landfall.

speaker1: wow. this place sure beats the out of the holiday inn express. why aren't you staying here? 
speaker2: too pricey. besides, since we're paying for golf we get full access to the resort--including the pool bar.
speaker3: mothers, lock up your daughters-- the dogs are off the leash!
speaker2: turn-and-burn, baby!
speaker2: nope. i don't do that.
speaker1: hey, i say screw the golf--let's go straight to the pool bar and start getting you guys laid!
speaker2: hoch-head, relax, the pool bar ain't going nowhere. besides, it'll be good for us to get a little sun before making our grand entrance-- chicks love a healthy glow.
speaker3: plus it wouldn't hurt to work up a little sweat--get those pheromones flying.
speaker1: you talked me into it.
speaker4: hey, guys, look what i brought.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker4: pot brownskies.
speaker2: what, are we on spring break? where the hell'd you get those?
speaker4: i got an in.

speaker1: with who? 
speaker2: guy who washes my dog. go ahead.
speaker2: eating it isn't like smoking it. it's a much mellower buzz--you'll just feel relaxed.
speaker3: are they chocolatey?
speaker4: hog-head, come on, who eats pot brownies at eleven in the morning when they're playing golf?
speaker3: john daly?
speaker2: and by the way, rick, this is spring break! you've got a hall pass! live it up, man! it'll probably help your rap with the ladies later.
speaker3: gary's right--when are we ever gonna get the chance to do pot brownies again?
speaker3: mmm. these are yummy.
speaker4: you don't even have a hall pass.
speaker3: so? i can still live vicariously through you guys, can't i?
speaker4: it's not vicarious if you're actually doing it.
speaker3: whatever. just hit your ball.
speaker1: oh, what the hell, it's not like my game can get any worse.

speaker1: what kind of soap do you use? 
speaker2: you mean in the shower?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: dove.
speaker1: yeah, i like dove--it doesn't dry your skin so much.
speaker1: sometimes it's hard to wash off, though. because of the moisturizer.
speaker2: i think hog-head's dead.
speaker1: hog-head...? are you okay?
speaker3: what the is he doing?
speaker2: uh, he's having back spasms.

speaker1: not him. him. 
speaker2: gary! what are you doing?!
speaker3: i don't know--you tell me!
speaker1: look, this is the third time i've had to flag your group and you're only on the fourth hole. now if i have to come out here again, you're done for the day.
speaker2: gotcha. we'll pick it up, sir.

speaker1: think. where did you last see it? 
speaker2: on the course.
speaker1: where on the course?
speaker2: i don't know--on a fairway, i think. i clot out, grabbed my club, took a swing, and when i turned around it had disappeared.
speaker1: you're serious? you're telling us you lost your golf cart?
speaker3: dude, where's my golf cart?

speaker1: shut up, fred. 
speaker2: guys, i gotta go poo again.
speaker3: i didn't lose it, i think it was stolen.
speaker1: who would steal a golf cart?
speaker3: criminals?
speaker2: does anyone have any napkins?
speaker3: look, all i know is i had it on the seventh tee and now it's gone.
speaker1: what are you talking about? we're only on the sixth hole.
speaker3: what? did we miss a hole? where's my kids?
speaker1: oh, come on, man!
speaker4: run for it!

speaker1: he's gaining on us! 
speaker2: i can't go any faster, i've got it floored!

speaker1: hey, mom, look! 
speaker2: ed. kimmy. clones.
speaker3: their poor wives.

speaker1: hey, i'm gerry--thanks for coming out and supporting us. 
speaker2: oh, it was fun. you guys looked good.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: so...we saw you sitting up there with those little kids--are you nannies or something?
speaker2: no, they're my kids.
speaker1: yeah, right. you have three kids?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: dudes, they're not nannies, they're mommies.
speaker3: no way?!
speaker4: well, she is, not me. i'm not old enough yet.
speaker5: guys!
speaker5: time to pack things up--let's go!
speaker6: the players quickly scatter.
speaker7: maggie, grace, this is rick coleman- -the coach.
speaker5: i hope those clowns weren't bothering you.
speaker2: oh, no, they were sweet.
speaker4: yeah. cute kids.
speaker2: so you're the guy who's been taking money off my dad every saturday on the golf course?
speaker5: i hate to break it to you but your old man's the one who's been taking all the money--he's a thief.
speaker5: hey, everyone's coming back to my place for some beers and a barbecue- -why don't you join us?
speaker2: oh, thanks, but we've gotta get the kids home.
speaker7: your mom and i will take 'em home. you two go out and have a good time- -cripes, you haven't been out all week.
speaker2: oh, i don't know, dad, we really

speaker1: excuse me, can i have a word with you? 
speaker1: what's your problem?

speaker1: oh, come on, grace, these guys are barely out of college, and, in case you've forgotten, we're married. 
speaker2: to who? last i heard, rick and fred had the week off from marriage. so remind me again--who are we married to?
speaker1: well...i guess one beer won't kill us.
speaker2: that's my girl.
speaker2: why shouldn't we have fun? knows our guys are living it up.

speaker1: and you've gotta pick one or someone in your family will die-- that's the rule. 
speaker2: oh boy, that's a toughie.
speaker3: how long would you have to make-out with him?
speaker1: ten minutes.
speaker4: tongue?

speaker1: of course. 
speaker2: and how long would he have to blow you?
speaker1: seven minutes.
speaker3: oof. i mean, getting blown by a dude is bad, but making out with a guy, it's so.. .intimate.
speaker4: you think it's more intimate than getting blown by a guy?
speaker3: way more.
speaker5: all right, the with this i'm outta here.
speaker4: what? why?
speaker5: i wanted to watch you guys pick up chicks, not talk about dicks.
speaker2: hey, greased lightning, let off the gas--sometimes these things take time.
speaker3: baker's right. this is day three and you haven't even talked to a girl.
speaker4: that's not exactly accurate, gary. thanks to your scrumptious brownies, i did spend half of last night talking to judy on the drug- and-poison hotline.
speaker1: i guess i'm gonna get going, too.
speaker3: yeah, this is boring. you guys are pussies.

speaker1: hey, i haven't seen you guys talk to any girls. 
speaker2: we don't have hall passes!
speaker2: come on, guys, let's go.
speaker3: hey, guys, it's all right if you strike-out.. .but for godsakes, at least take a couple of swings.
speaker1: this is actually good--you know, that they're leaving. you don't need five hunters to bag two birds.
speaker4: no, you do not. and i love those guys but, let's be honest, they're not exactly chick-magnets.
speaker1: you can say that again. yep, the steak always looks better if you trim away some of the fat. and let's face it, we are the steak.
speaker4: dream team, baby.
speaker4: maybe we should call the girls and ask them to come home.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: who are we kidding, man? do you really think we're going to be picking up any girls this week?
speaker1: why wouldn't we?
speaker4: because that's not us anymore.
speaker1: wait a second. you want to quit?

speaker1: fred, we're not the same guys we were fifteen years ago, back when we were single. we've changed. 
speaker2: no, man, you've changed. all you care about is yourself--what about all the guys out there who are counting on us to make this thing work?
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: don't you get it?
speaker2: we're the chosen ones!
speaker2: that's right--this thing is bigger than us! our wives didn't give us this hall pass, the good lord did! and what do we have to show for it?
speaker1: come off it, fred. obviously hooking up isn't something we really want--if it was, we could've done it by now.
speaker2: could we have?
speaker1: well ...of course. i mean, if we'd really wanted to.
speaker2: guess what? i did want to. and you know how close i got? we're three days in and the only woman i've spoken to was our waitress at outback. and she never even made eye-contact.
speaker1: i don't really care if some waitress makes eye-contact. i want to go home--i miss my wife and kids.

speaker1: let me explain something to you: if grace and maggie find out we can't get laid on our own, they'll start thinking we need them to get laid. do you know what that'll do to the balance of power in our homes? it'll destroy it! 
speaker2: well, what if we just tell them that we did hook up?
speaker1: we can't. grace'll know. she always knows when i'm lying.
speaker2: hey, what about a massage parlor?
speaker1: no! that's giving up.
speaker1: you don't get it, do you? a hall pass ain't all about sex. it's about being man enough to pick up a woman even though you may not be what--in the traditional sense--is considered...
speaker3: .good-looking, or... .appealing.
speaker1: look, if we can't show that something positive can come from having a hall pass, then the whole concept is dead. not just for us...but for all mankind.

speaker1: so how about you, rick, do you have any children? 
speaker2: nah, but maybe some day. your mom keeps talking about hooking me up with your cousin kate.
speaker2: that's not a good sign.
speaker1: no, i hardly know her. she moved to miami when i was eight.
speaker2: that's what your mom said. i coach at the university of miami.
speaker1: then you should go out with her.
speaker2: nice try.
speaker2: so how about yourself--how long you been married?
speaker1: uh...fourteen years. we were college sweethearts.
speaker2: nice. and where is he this week?
speaker1: he's up in boston.
speaker2: poor guy. all work and no play, huh?
speaker1: something like that.

speaker1: jackpot, baby. 
speaker2: how about those two?
speaker1: ooh, yeah. daddy likes.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: i went on-line this afternoon and wrote down some good pick-up lines to break the ice.
speaker2: 'hi. will you help me find my puppy? i think he ran into the cheap hotel across the street.'

speaker1: that's a good one--except for one thing: we don't have a puppy, so when she gets there she'll realize we're full of 
speaker2: i don't think it's supposed to be for real. it's just to make her laugh so she'll talk to you.
speaker1: oh no, it doesn't work on that level. here, this is my favorite.
speaker1: 'you must be from ireland because when i look at you my is dublin.'
speaker2: it's a charmer but you know what? we don't need phony pick-up lines.
speaker1: great. if you know how to. rick takes a deep breath and braces himself.
speaker2: give me the helmet.
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: hello.
speaker1: hola.
speaker2: well.. .this is awkward. i feel like i'm back at my first junior high school mixer.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: i'm very surprised to hear that news, because when i look at you my doubles in size.
speaker3: no, he means his is dublin. like the city. in ireland.

speaker1: i have this overwhelming urge to donkey-kick everyone in this bar. 
speaker2: okay, tiger, keep your chin up--no one said this was going to be easy. even in college you had to take fifty rejections for every score, remember?
speaker1: yeah, but it didn't sting so much when i was drunk.
speaker2: that's it! we should be drinking!
speaker1: you're right. we're too stiff.
speaker2: way too stiff. we gotta start pounding 'em, get those creative juices flowing, bring the soul to the surface.

speaker1: come on, buddy, let's go... 
speaker2: no, screw them! you think your don't stink?! well i got news for ya: i wouldn't titty-bang you in a snow storm!
speaker3: , oh, please, sir, please titty-bang us in a snow storm!
speaker2: nope, you blew it, not gonna happen.
speaker1: there you go, mister, you got 'em good. now let's go.
speaker2: hey, sweetie, you need a pole for that flag?

speaker1: i know what we've been doing wrong. 
speaker1: if we're gonna break out of this slump, we've got to start using our strength. and that is.. .people who know us, like us. so we should go after the women we've already won over.
speaker2: you mean like our wives?
speaker1: yeah, like that, but not them.
speaker1: i was thinking coffee girl.
speaker2: you've won over coffee girl?
speaker1: well, i'm sure she'd recognize me.
speaker2: look, if you really want to go after someone you already know, have you considered missy frankenfield?
speaker3: fred's listening.
speaker2: she's got all the stats you like-- she's beautiful, you k now her phone n ow- number, she's freshly divorced...
speaker1: which according to hog-head means she's horny.
speaker2: bingo.

speaker1: what's up, beach bunnies? 
speaker2: what are you doing here?

speaker1: gerry, stop it! 
speaker2: hey, where are the kiddies? we thought we'd take you all for a boat ride.
speaker3: my parents took them to martha's vineyard for the weekend.
speaker4: all right, everybody aboard! we're going waterskiing!

speaker1: can i take your order? 
speaker2: uh...i don't know what i want.
speaker2: look, man, i want her to take my order.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: uh, she knows how i like it.
speaker1: little help, leigh--your unique barista skills have been requested.
speaker3: hi. what would you like?
speaker2: iced coffee. with two splendas.
speaker3: that'll be two dollars.
speaker2: by the way, nice tunes. do you choose 'em or do they come down from corporate?
speaker3: me. it's snow patrol.

speaker1: nice soundtrack. pretty solid movie, too. 
speaker2: dude, you're thinking of snow do s-- the cuba gooding kiddie flick. this is snow patrol, the band.
speaker3: thanks for the tip.
speaker2: enjoy your two-splenda'd iced coffee, mister.
speaker1: why are you smiling? you think this counter is some alligator-infested moat?
speaker1: this little 'i'm-on-the-inside, too- cool-for-school, let's-laugh-at-the-

speaker1: you do? 
speaker1: i work-out at home, but i was thinking of going public with my work-outs. what do you squat?
speaker2: i don't really squat, just run on the hamster-wheel everyday after work.
speaker3: so did you go to harvard?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: i mean, you know...i went to a party there once.
speaker1: actually, this is harvard health care. sleep apnea... snoring too much. so is this a good place to join?
speaker2: great place. real chill. and they have a bar, so i always grab a beer after my workout.
speaker1: bitchin'. sounds like a nice routine. maybe i'll routine it, too.
speaker2: if you join, tell 'em leigh sent you--they'll give me two free months.
speaker1: i'll do that, leigh.
speaker2: rockin'.

speaker1: hi, this is missy. sorry i missed your call. i'm out of town for a few days, and i may have limited cell reception. please leave a message and i'll get back to you as soon as i can. beep. 
speaker2: hey, missy, this is fred searing. i . uh, i dust wanted to give you a ring and, um...well, give me a call when you get back. it's kind of an emergency. well, not life- threatening, but--

speaker1: oh, hi. 
speaker1: um, i don't think i got a chance to tell you how impressed i was with your new place. absolutely elegant.
speaker2: kimmy grunts a thank you and turns away from him.
speaker3: mr. searing, you pick up last week-- no more clothes here!
speaker1: that's right... well, gotta get going--i have a meeting across town in ten minutes. see ya.

speaker1: you want massage? 
speaker1: you fill out.
speaker2: i'd prefer no paper trail.
speaker1: need for insurance company.
speaker2: i don't think my insurance company's gonna cover this one.
speaker1: ten dollar co-pay?
speaker2: uh, no.
speaker1: fill out form. it policy.

speaker1: look, i don't really want this in print. 
speaker2: how i know what you want if you no fill out form?
speaker1: um, couldn't i just tell you?
speaker2: so, what you waiting for?!
speaker2: okay.. .but must see i.d. first.
speaker1: how about a c-note so i don't have to fill out any forms or show any i.d.'s?

speaker1: wow. you can really move out there. 
speaker2: thanks. i was a dance major in college.
speaker1: really? i always wondered--what do you do with a degree in dance?
speaker2: well, as it turned out, nothing.
speaker2: i guess the original plan was to go to new york and try to hook-up with one of the big dance companies, but then i got married and. . .your priorities change.
speaker2: anyway, that was fun. i haven't danced this much in a long time.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i don't know, you get busy, kids, school, there's so much going on.
speaker1: well you gotta make time for the stuff you love or you'll forget who you are.
speaker2: you know, my husband's name is rick.

speaker1: well that makes me the perfect guy to have an affair with--you'd never have to worry about screaming out the wrong name during sex. 
speaker1: i'm kidding.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: now come on, let's go find grace and get something to eat. i'm starving.

speaker1: hey, rick. 
speaker2: oh...hey, flats. how you doing, man?
speaker1: great. what's up with you? how's that hall pass thing going?
speaker2: who told you about that--was it hog- head?
speaker1: no. some old lady was yakking about it down at the post office.

speaker1: i don't know where you're getting your information, flats, but a hall pass isn't just about getting laid, it's about getting a week off from marriage to do as you please-- whether that be fishing, or watching tv, whatever it is that relaxes you. 
speaker2: oh, i didn't know that.
speaker1: uh, flatsy, i gotta run. i'm late for my work-out appointment.
speaker1: hey, girl!
speaker3: all right! you decided to go for it.

speaker1: clyde, this is my friend, uh... 
speaker2: rick.
speaker1: he's looking to join.
speaker3: great. i'll get you signed up.
speaker1: see ya.
speaker4: she turns to leave.
speaker2: so, uh, are you gonna grab a brewski after your work-out?
speaker1: nah.
speaker1: i'm gonna grab two.
speaker2: peace it!

speaker1: what's that about--you swimming the english channel? the metrosexual shoots rick an annoyed look. 
speaker2: nah, just not into looking like the knuckle-dragging guy on the evolution-of-man chart.

speaker1: little help... 
speaker1: help ...me...
speaker2: are you having chest pains, sir?
speaker1: no, no, i think i was...in the hot tub too long. i can't feel my body.
speaker3: how long were you in there?
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker3: seven-thirty.
speaker1: about three hours.

speaker1: try not to move, sir. 
speaker2: i'm okay, just help me up.

speaker1: we let down the male species. 
speaker1: i really thought our hall passes might change the philosophy of marriage in america.
speaker1: i envisioned a national holiday, right between july 4th and labor day, like the first friday in august, hall pass day; a day for husbands to get some strange, a day that would forever be known as the holiday,that saved the institution of marriage.
speaker2: all right, don't give up.
speaker1: i'm not giving up, i'm facing facts- -this is our last day and we got nothing cooking. maybe you were right. maybe we should just tell the girls to come home.

speaker1: no. i want the hall pass. 
speaker1: at first i wasn't sure, but now i want the dream.
speaker2: i'm not even sure i know what the dream is anymore.
speaker1: i just...i just want to know what it's like to be with another woman.
speaker2: well, just pull up one of the golden oldies in your spank bank-- it's almost like being there.
speaker1: i don't have anything in that spank bank.
speaker2: i'm talking about all the girls before you met maggie.
speaker2: what?
speaker2: no, you're not serious?
speaker2: wait a second, are you saying...?
speaker2: but how can that be--you didn't meet maggie until college?
speaker1: yeah, so? what do you think, everyone gets laid in high school? i got news for you, mister--getting laid in high school is not a right, it's a privilege.
speaker1: first class, first day, freshman year, i saw maggie--she was sitting three seats away in western civ-- and i fell in love instantly. i begged her for three months to go out with me, she finally caved, and that night i told her i loved her.

speaker1: eighty-four days later she told me she loved me back and we've been together ever since. 
speaker2: wow. that's a really creepy story.
speaker2: hello.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: oh, okay, great.
speaker1: who was that?
speaker2: just an angel from heaven.
speaker2: coakley's back in town!

speaker1: does this mean you're going steady? 
speaker2: that's not funny. i feel terrible-- the poor kid's spending all his hard-earned money on me--that's sad. cute, but sad.
speaker1: grace, you should be flattered. you're thirty-eight-years-old and college kids are still swooning over you.
speaker2: well i just feel bad if i gave him the wrong impression.

speaker1: the wrong impression? what makes you think that--i mean, besides the flowers, i.d. bracelet, and love letter? 
speaker1: 'dearest grace--our final game is tonight. please meet me at the coach's place afterwards to celebrate. yours truly, gerry.'
speaker2: thanks for piling on.
speaker2: well...i can't accept this. i guess i'm just gonna have to go set him straight.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: just texting missy frankenfield that we're going to be at enter the dragon--i'm covering all my bases.
speaker1: you don't need missy frankenfield tonight. if we can't get the job done with coakley as our wingman, then we're pathetic.
speaker2: all right, here come da man!
speaker3: coakley!

speaker1: my two favorite nutsuckers--how the are ya?! 
speaker2: no, who?
speaker1: george clooney.
speaker3: what's he doing here?
speaker1: i don't know--must be shooting a movie or something.
speaker3: huh. look, man, we've got a situation on our hands.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, baker filled me in. s'been rough sledding, huh?
speaker1: well, don't worry, my little snickerdicks...coakley's here.

speaker1: i'm gonna need three-hundred bucks. 
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: if you're really serious about this, stop questioning me.

speaker1: good evening, mr. coakley. 
speaker2: what up, my guy?
speaker2: push the defrost button on the microwave, boys. the deep freeze is over.

speaker1: okay, guys, you tried it your way and you railed miserably. you struck out, you were oh-for- everything. so now we do it my way, which is... 
speaker1: . go ugly early.
speaker1: guys, you're not trying to get married here--you're trying to get laid.
speaker2: aren't you the guy who goes to the hawaiian tropic finals every year?
speaker1: i go to the tropic finals because miss north dakota's gonna lose and she's gonna need a hug. and quite often you can parlay a hug into a hand-job. rick, you're up--get us two bottles of moet and six glasses.
speaker3: hi, mr. mills.

speaker1: oh, hey, paige. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i turned twenty-one yesterday.
speaker2: i'm legal now.
speaker1: oh. well, happy birthday. you out celebrating?
speaker2: yeah, i'm here with my aunt meg.
speaker2: she's the best. forty-two years old but she still parties like she's my age.
speaker1: nice.
speaker2: so, rick, how's the hall pass going?
speaker2: you don't mind if i call you rick, do you? i am officially an adult now.
speaker1: no, of course not--what did you just say?
speaker2: i was asking about your hall pass. i baby-sit for the putneys and i heard gary talking about it the other night at their barbecue.
speaker1: he was talking about it at a barbecue?!
speaker2: oh, he wasn't saying it in a bad way.

speaker1: in fact, i thought it was very classy of you to be staying at the holiday inn express instead of bringing girls back to your home with all the kids' pictures and schoolwork taped up everywhere. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: yeah, um, two bottles of moet and six glasses please.
speaker1: so does it work both ways?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the hall pass. does your wife get one, too.
speaker2: uh, no, no. a hall pass is for men only.
speaker1: oh. who made that rule?
speaker2: well ...um...
speaker1: by the way, i kind of owe you an apology.

speaker1: oh, don't worry about it. it was a big misunderstanding. 
speaker2: no, it wasn't.

speaker1: if you thought i was coming on to you that night, it's because...i was. 
speaker2: yeah. um...i have to go, paige, but it was great seeing you.
speaker1: are you serious? you're doing this again... even with a hall pass?
speaker2: paige, you're my kids' babysitter. have a happy birthday. as rick walks away, we go
speaker3: here we go, bubbles doth floweth.
speaker4: holy crap... look who's here.
speaker5: hey, rick! what happened yesterday-- i thought we were gonna grab a beer?
speaker2: yeah, i got a little caught up in my curls and reps and
speaker5: nah, i've never been here, but a friend of mine's dj-ing tonight so i promised him i'd come.
speaker6: wassup, girl?
speaker7: wannabe notices rick and loses his smile.
speaker6: oh. hey. what are you doing here-- you auditing the place?
speaker2: actually, i work for sirius xm radio--we're looking to hire some new deejays so i'm checking out all the clubs.
speaker6: oh. cool. are you serious?
speaker2: not!
speaker6: oh, that's hip. real fresh. why don't you hit the dance floor-- the next song's gonna be for you.
speaker4: beer? when were you two going to have a beer?
speaker2: no, no, no, leigh and i just belong to the same gym and happened to be there at the same time yesterday afternoon.
speaker4: what gym do you belong to and where the was i?
speaker3: well, according to kimmy long, you were at the massage parlor trying to get a rub-and-tug without filling out the paperwork.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: i thought the massage parlor was admitting defeat? 
speaker2: i had a knot in my neck--why the didn't you tell me you saw coffee girl?!
speaker3: okay, guys, cut the crap. we're all here for the same thing. and i'll give you a hint what that thing is: it begins with a 'p' and ends with an 'ussy.' coakley puts his arm around fred.
speaker3: now relax, fredd , everyone's gonna get taken care ot. we just gotta find you a gazelle with a bad wheel.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: ooh--there's a couple of trainwrecks. let's go.
speaker2: whoa--wait a second.
speaker3: ladies, this is my friend fred pinkberry--his yogurt company just went public and he's out celebrating. he'd like to offer you a flute of champagne.
speaker4: i love pinkberry!
speaker1: so.. .having a good time?

speaker1: chillin'. 
speaker2: me too. just chillin' and wigglin'.
speaker2: i haven't been ancing in a long time.
speaker1: i can tell.
speaker2: oh yeah? just try to keep up.

speaker1: abort! abort! you stand not a chance. 
speaker2: no, no, i think we're starting to gel.
speaker1: no, no, you're mistaken. look, dude, this ain't operation cock- block here--now trust me, retreat.
speaker2: coak, i'm never gonna have another hall pass, so this memory has to last a lifetime. . .you know what i mean?
speaker1: all right, i'll be at the bar when this thing blows up in your face. as rick dances back over to leigh, we...
speaker3: all right, 'all, adult-swim's over. now if you was born before 1980 you're gonna want to step off the floor 'cause we're about to kick it up.

speaker1: is this guy your boyfriend or something? 
speaker2: no, no, no.
speaker2: one time we messed around a little.
speaker1: and what does 'messed around a little' mean these days?
speaker2: anal.
speaker2: i'm kidding. he kissed me one night and i kissed back--i shouldn't have.
speaker3: seriously, you grandpappies better get off the floor before someone falls and breaks a hip!
speaker1: just play your funky music, white boy!

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: oh. hey.
speaker1: thought you might want to help me celebrate the end of the season.
speaker1: i got some good late-night eats.

speaker1: it was the greys--you know, the tall, skinny aliens--and they were all over my yard, but--and here's the weird thing--i wasn't at all afraid of them so when they asked me if i wanted to get in their spaceship, i said, 'sure,' and i walked right on. 
speaker2: oh my you're so brave! i would never, ever in a million years climb into one of those things. fred, would you ever just walk into a ufo on your own?
speaker3: if they came right now i would, sure.
speaker4: there you are!
speaker3: oh my you're here!

speaker1: franken-berry, how the heck are ya?! 
speaker1: you look incredible!
speaker2: thanks, fred, you look good, too.
speaker1: never felt better.
speaker2: i have to say, i can't believe i'm actually here--i was on my way home from dinner when i noticed your text. so what's this big emergency?
speaker1: huh? oh, uh, yeah. by 'emergency' i just meant that there's some important stuff i want to talk to you about. you know, one on one, me and you--without all the husbands and wives and hoopla. so how are you?
speaker2: i'm... good.
speaker1: no, i mean how-are-you. inside. what's happenin' in there? there must be all sorts of emotions churning up with the divorce and everything.
speaker2: maybe we should go somewhere else-- this doesn't seem like the best place to spill one's guts.
speaker3: what part of 'go ugly early' didn't you understand? you've got a better chance of winning husband-of-the- year than tagging that chiquita.
speaker1: but...i know her. she said she wants to leave with me.

speaker1: then she's insane--run for the hills. 
speaker2: coak, the woman's going through a divorce. she's not insane, she's just making really poor decisions right now. here, give rick the keys to my mini- van. i'm gonna go back to the hotel with missy.
speaker1: it's your funeral, princess.
speaker3: are you okay--you keep checking your pulse?
speaker4: nah, i'm fine. i had a little chest cramp during the last song, but i worked through it.
speaker3: come on, let's sit this one out. i need a breather.
speaker3: so what's up with the ring?
speaker4: um...have you ever heard of a hall pass?

speaker1: oh. great. uh, where is everyone? 
speaker2: they all went out to party--now get in here!
speaker1: gerry, i'm sorry but i can't stay.
speaker2: what?
speaker2: is everything okay?
speaker1: yeah, yeah, everything's fine, but... .i can't accept this.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: gerry, i'm a married woman.
speaker2: um... i'm sorry if i made you uncomfortable, grace. it's just that...i really like you.
speaker1: i like you, too, gerry, and you didn't make me uncomfortable.

speaker1: i wasn't deliberately hiding it. 
speaker2: yeah, i just thought your wife had died or something and you were wearing it out of respect.
speaker1: uh, nope. she's still hangin' in there.
speaker3: come on, you're not gonna close the sale here--let's move this clambake back to my place.
speaker1: okay, but what am i gonna do there?
speaker3: what do you mean, what are you gonna do? i've got a house with bedrooms--do the math. when it doesn't work out with her--which it won't--there's going to be a bunch of other back-up chicks there.
speaker1: my buddy's inviting everybody back to his crib.
speaker2: sounds cool.

speaker1: i've got to be honest, fred... i'm not really sure what we're doing here. 
speaker2: what do you mean? we're hangin', we're connecting--that's what friends do. especially if they want to take it to the next level where they can call each other 'good friends.'

speaker1: you're married, fred. 
speaker2: ah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
speaker1: what does blah-blah mean? you are still married, right?
speaker2: happily. look, i don't want to get into all the details, but my wife gave me this one-time deal where i get to be with another woman.
speaker1: i thought we were going to the hotel bar?
speaker2: we are. there's a mini-bar in my room. you better hurry up, it's last call.
speaker1: are you out of your flippin' mind?
speaker2: um...
speaker1: are you out of your mind?!
speaker2: i'm going to be honest with you-- your tone right now is scaring me.
speaker1: you call me up for the first time in your life, claim you have some kind of emergency, and it turns out that you just want to screw me?!
speaker2: or not.
speaker1: well, screw you, fred!

speaker1: nail on the head! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what you just said--i had that coming. big time.
speaker1: seriously, missy, i...i don't know what's gotten into me this week. i think i must be having some kind of mid-life crisis or something because i've been acting like a real jackass.
speaker2: okay. whatever.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: so ... . you want to come in for that drink? 
speaker2: you, fred!
speaker1: 'no thank you' would have sufficed.

speaker1: hi. may i help you? 
speaker2: rick, my name's meg. i'm your babysitter paige's aunt, and i just wanted to come over here and tell you this: they don't make men like you anymore.
speaker1: oh. well, thank you.
speaker1: would you like to come in?

speaker1: everything okay? 
speaker2: yeah. yeah. it's just ...no, everything's not okay.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: look, you're a great cguy, gerry, and you're very charming and very sweet and the last thing i wanted to do was hurt your feelings, but...well, what,just happened can never happen again.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i know it's probably hard for you to understand but...i love my husband.
speaker1: so? what does that have to do with anything? fate threw us together and we went with it--isn't that what life's all about?

speaker1: not always. 
speaker1: it wasn't fair to my husband... and it wasn't fair to you because this could never become anything more than just.. .what it was.
speaker2: i know that.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: of course i do. jeez. i mean, no offense, but let's face it, you're a lot older than me.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: i don't mean that in a bad way. i'm just saying, i didn't think we were going to start dating, you know? could you imagine the looks we'd get? it'd be like hugh hefner and his girlfriends--except in reverse.
speaker2: you'd be hugh hefner.
speaker1: yeah, i got that part.
speaker2: ooh, i gotta get going. we have kind of a team meeting in like twenty minutes.
speaker3: it's, uh, kind o a tradition that we always get together on the night of the last game. it would probably be uncool if i missed it.

speaker1: you don't have to explain. 
speaker2: seriously, though, thanks for everything--that was awesome.

speaker1: i guess i still have a lot to get out of my system before i do the marriage trip. i'm one of those people who wants to try everything once before i die. 
speaker2: have you ever been with a married guy?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: neither have i.
speaker2: i'd like to help you take being with a married guy off your list of things to do before you die.
speaker1: you would?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: i don't want to be a home-wrecker. 
speaker2: i've got a one-time pass, remember?
speaker1: that wasn't just a line?
speaker2: no. it's for real.
speaker1: so where can we go to talk some more about this?
speaker2: um, coakley has a game room upstairs. we could.. .talk there.
speaker3: leigh!
speaker3: where have you...? why didn't you...? you knew this was my big night! how could you just--? look, can i please talk to you in private? now.
speaker1: can you give me a second?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: well? are you coming?
speaker1: i'm sorry, rick. i have to go deal with this.

speaker1: really? now? i thought you said he wasn't your boyfriend. 
speaker2: he's not...but he is a friend.
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: .and he hasn't even spent one night in his own bed this week. 
speaker2: let me get this straight--you gave him his freedom and now you're mad that he's acting free?
speaker2: hey, i'm sure there's an explanation. maybe he took a trip somewhere?
speaker1: i called his assistant--he's been in the office almost everyday.
speaker2: look, maggie, for all you know your husband's been working at a sou kitchen, sleeping in his car al week, and he's only gotten laid two or three times at most.
speaker1: ha-ha.
speaker1: jeez, i wonder what's taking grace so long?

speaker1: well, if she went over to break the kid's heart, the least she could do is lend a sympathetic ear. 
speaker1: prepare yourself for heaven.
speaker1: not so fast, lady. i'm not finished. you have not lived until you've had my steaming hot blueberry pancakes...
speaker1: .a la mode.
speaker2: oh my-lanta.
speaker1: and to wash it all down...

speaker1: hey. . .what are you guys doing here? 
speaker2: we're here for the hall pass.
speaker1: really? i thought you guys had given up on us?
speaker3: we did. we're here with them.
speaker1: what are you talking about?

speaker1: when leary and boshane heard about your guy's hall pass, they convinced their wives to give them one, too. 
speaker2: you weren't supposed to tell anyone about the hall pass!
speaker3: they didn't say anything. our wives heard about it at the pool.
speaker2: no! at the pool?!
speaker4: yep. and then about three days ago-- after some hard-core negotiating-- we managed to push the bill through.
speaker2: really? so...how's it going?
speaker4: solid. very solid.
speaker3: we're building mucho momentumo.

speaker1: that's right. it's about going bowling and, uh, staying up late, and being able to do what you want to do when you want to do it. 
speaker2: haven't gotten laid yet, huh?
speaker1: it's a lot tougher than we thought it would be.

speaker1: hey, dudes, there's like ten very bangable chicks out on the back deck--let's go! 
speaker2: to freedom!

speaker1: hey, where are you going? 
speaker2: what are you doing...? i thought you'd left.
speaker1: no. i told you, i just had to talk him off the ledge. i calmed him down and sent him on his way.
speaker2: oh. uh, great.
speaker1: so where's that game room? i thought we were gonna play some games.

speaker1: i'll be right back--i just have to use the bathroom. 
speaker2: hey.

speaker1: hey. how come you're not downstairs partying? 
speaker2: all partied out, pal.

speaker1: man, that barney fife still kills me. 
speaker1: hey, i was thinking about this hall- pass business. it's really ironic, isn't it?
speaker2: how's that?
speaker1: well think about it. there's two kinds of guys who cheat on their wives: the guy who does it behind her back, and a guy like you who has his wife's permission.
speaker2: well it's not really cheating if i have permission.
speaker1: yeah, whatever. the point is, if you asked a hundred people who the better cjuy is, ninety-nine of 'em would pick you, because you're being honest--there's no deceit involved.
speaker1: but the funny thing is, the other guy, the cheater, the bad guy, he has to live with all that guilt and anxiety, while his wife's running around happy as a clam because she doesn't know anything. and you, the good guy, you've got no guilt at all because you just laid it all on your wife's shoulders.
speaker2: well i didn't really think of it

speaker1: it's like she's your guilt sherpa! 
speaker1: funny, huh?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and that, my friend, is why you are a genius.

speaker1: cheers. 
speaker2: rick, i hope you don't mind me tracking you down--paige told me where you were staying.
speaker1: please. not at all.
speaker2: you've been very sweet to her.
speaker1: hey, she's a good kid. i do what i can for the kids.
speaker2: she told me everything. and i have to say, i was very impressed.
speaker1: hm?
speaker2: i know she tried to hook-up with you--twice in fact--and that you set her straight both times.

speaker1: uh...hook-up? 
speaker2: rick, enough with the chivalry. paige wanted to sleep with you and you didn't take advantage of her. i'm just saying that's very cool.
speaker1: well... she's a kid and kids get crushes. i remember in tenth grade i had the biggest crush on my french teacher--thank mr. leclaire was professional enough to only date seniors.
speaker2: i'm serious, it takes a certain kind of guy to say no to a beautiful young girl like that-- especially since you have your wi e's permission now.
speaker2: i like that, rick. you have morals.
speaker1: hey, all you have in this world is your word.

speaker1: leigh, i gotta split. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: yeah, i kind of hit a wall.

speaker1: really? are you feeling okay? you're not mad because i went outside with my friend, are you? 
speaker2: no, no, no. look, i shouldn't be doing this. i have.. .you know, commitments.
speaker2: um, you dropped something.
speaker1: relax. don't think so much. you're gonna have your wife for the rest of your life, but tonight. . .you have me.
speaker2: nope. i can't do this.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: your wife didn't give you a hallway permission slip, did she?

speaker1: yes, she did, but... look, you're insanely beautiful and pathologically and every cell in my body is telling me to dust do this, but-- rick points to his chest. 
speaker1: see this area, this spot right here? the first time maggie and i slept together, back in college, she fell asleep right here. and she left a puddle of drool. and it didn't bother me. it actually felt good. that's when i knew i was going to marry her.
speaker1: and when my kids--emma and gunnar-- when they were babies, this is where they slept. or sometimes at four o'clock in the morning emma would just lay there and stare up at me. it was where we first got to know each other.
speaker1: so i'm sorry, leigh, but as amazing as i think you are...i gotta go home.
speaker2: well, i think you have a screw loose and you're probably going to regret this for the rest of your life, but. . .right on, man.
speaker1: um...do you want me to give you a ride home?
speaker2: no. it's only one-thirty--i'm going back down to the party.
speaker1: peace it.
speaker2: r-o-c-k in the u-s-a.

speaker1: i'm attracted to men with integrity. 
speaker2: thanks--wow, you got great jugs.
speaker1: moral-guy's a tit-man, huh?
speaker2: well, i grew up in the midwest.
speaker1: oh yes! rick... please...i want you to make love to me.
speaker3: fred, i need to talk to you!

speaker1: fred? i thought you were rick?! 
speaker2: i'm rick.
speaker3: please don't judge me.

speaker1: what did they tell you? is grace gonna be okay? 
speaker2: all i know is she was in a car accident and they rushed her to the hospital.
speaker1: oh my

speaker1: whoa!!! what the hell...?! 
speaker2: how do you like me now, splenda- boy?
speaker1: you that's lny car! his is the one next to it!

speaker1: oh come on! how can a hospital not have a live operator?! 
speaker2: it's four in the morning, fred. fred hangs up and pounds his steering wheel.
speaker1: what was i thinking?! i had a great wife--a beautiful wife--and now i may lose her.. .because of you.
speaker2: what are you talking about?! you said our wives were living their dreams, with their fancy gas ovens, and that our dream was the hall pass! how can you blame this on me?!
speaker1: i'd never even heard of a hall pass until you flaunted yours in my face! 'hey, look at me, i've got a hall pass--everyone should have a hall pass!' you ruined my life, mills!

speaker1: this is a great place. 
speaker2: yeah, my family's had it since i was a kid. we used to come for a week a summer, then two weeks, then a month, then by the time i got to high school we were living here all summer long.

speaker1: something's wrong here, maggie. 
speaker2: hm?
speaker1: something's wrong with a guy who would leave a woman like you alone for this long.
speaker2: well, you know...i did give him a hall pass.
speaker1: so what? if you were my girl, i wouldn't have taken it.
speaker1: you deserve way better.
speaker2: uh, in rick's defense, he didn't really even want the hall pass. i kind of forced it on him.
speaker1: why would you do that?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: i guess i felt like he wasn't noticing me anymore. j guess i wanted to feel.. .desired again. and the truth is, in my heart, i never thought he'd go through with it.

speaker1: oh my 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this hall pass ...it wasn't for him.
speaker1: it was...for me.

speaker1: i'm sorry, man, i shouldn't have blamed you for this. i'm the one who dragged you into this thing. 
speaker2: no, you didn't. i went willingly.
speaker1: i've been bad, rick. i've been real bad.
speaker2: we've both been bad.
speaker1: i've been worse. i kissed your babysitter's aunt.
speaker2: that's not so bad.
speaker1: on the vagina.
speaker2: ooh.
speaker2: oh

speaker1: pull over, man! 
speaker2: no way, i can out-run 'em!
speaker1: no you can't--not in this thing!

speaker1: oh now there's two of 'em! 
speaker2: i don't care--i'm not stopping 'til we get there!
speaker1: are you crazy?!
speaker2: yeah, i'm crazy! i'm crazy about my wife!

speaker1: we're on! 
speaker2: hear me out, gentlemen, i can explain everything!

speaker1: grace needs me! 
speaker2: okay, just take it easy, buddy.
speaker1: no, i won't take it easy! look, i'm sorry i was speeding and i shouldn't have run from you guys, but my wife's been in an accident and she's in this emergency room and i gotta see how she is because...

speaker1: are you the husband of... .grace searing? 
speaker2: yes! is she okay?!
speaker3: all right, let him up.
speaker2: please tell me she's gonna be okay.
speaker1: she is. your wife broke her nose and she got shaken up a bit, but all in all she's a very lucky woman.
speaker2: you got that wrong, doc. i'm the lucky one.
speaker2: bless you, doctor!

speaker1: you take care of that woman, buddy, and i'm gonna go home and take care of mine. 
speaker2: rick...
speaker2: you go love that lady!
speaker3: uh, before you 'go love that lady', we're going to have to write you guys up.

speaker1: oh my oh my you poor thing. 
speaker1: hold on, rick just walked in.

speaker1: i know. she's okay. 
speaker2: and they let you go?
speaker1: march twenty-fifth, 1988.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the day i lost my virginity. march 25th, 1988 at approximately ten- thirty in the evening.
speaker2: what are you talking about? we were dating then.
speaker1: you were my first. and you were my last. and you were everything in between.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: really.
speaker2: so...is that why you were crying that first night?
speaker2: and i was...i was your last?
speaker1: you are my only. forever.

speaker1: .and what were you doing driving around at one o'clock in the morning? 
speaker2: well...i was upset so i went for a drive--you know, to think--and i must have hit a patch of sand, and before i knew it i was into the pole.
speaker1: i'm sorry, grace.
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: for putting you through all this.
speaker2: it's not your fault, fred.
speaker1: yes, it is--of course it's my fault. this isn't you--driving around all night, thinking--you're not a thinker.
speaker2: look, fred, we have to talk about... about what happened this week.

speaker1: grace. . .do we really have to do this? 
speaker2: yeah. yeah, we do.

speaker1: old man? 
speaker2: oh, no, honey, that's not me--they were talking about rick.
speaker2: look, all you gotta know is that whatever happened doesn't matter! i love you and only you! and i'm going to treat you like the queen that you are for the rest of your living days, so help me i'll mow the lawn, i'll shovel the snow, i'll wash the stubble off the sink...
speaker2: .but please, i'm begging you, sweetie... can we please just never talk about what happened this week?
speaker1: um...deal.
speaker1: i love you, fred.
speaker3: come on, you two! we're gonna go watch the sun come up!

