speaker1: you mongrel! why do you howl when it is i who am bitten? 
speaker2: what am i, mr. lambert?
speaker3: bitten, mr. fennyman.
speaker2: how badly bitten, mr. frees?
speaker4: twelve pounds, one shilling and four pence, mr. fennyman, including interest.
speaker5: aaagh! i can pay you!
speaker2: when?
speaker5: two weeks, three at the most, aaaagh! for pity's sake.
speaker2: take his feet out. where will you get
speaker4: sixteen pounds, five shillings and nine pence
speaker2: including interest in three weeks?
speaker5: i have a wonderful new play!
speaker2: put his feet in.
speaker5: it's a comedy.
speaker2: cut his nose off.
speaker5: a new comedy. by will shakespeare!
speaker2: and his ears.
speaker5: and a share. we will be partners, mr. fennyman!
speaker2: partners!
speaker5: it's a crowd-tickler--mistaken identities, a shipwreck, a pirate king, a bit with a dog, and love triumphant.
speaker3: i think i've seen it. i didn't like it.
speaker5: this time it is by shakespeare.
speaker2: what's the title?
speaker5: romeo and ethel the pirate's daughter.
speaker2: good title.
speaker2: a play takes time. find actors rehearsals let's say open in three weeks. that's--what--five hundred groundlings at tuppence each, in addition four hundred groundlings tuppence each, in addition four hundred backsides at three pence--a penny extra for a cushion, call it two hundred cushions, say two performance for safety how much is that mr. frees?
speaker4: twenty pounds to the penny, mr. fennyman.
speaker2: correct!
speaker5: but i have to pay the actors and the authors.
speaker2: a share of the profits.
speaker5: there's never any
speaker2: of course not!
speaker2: sign here.
speaker2: romeo and ethel the pirate's daughter almost finished?
speaker5: without doubt he is completing it at this very moment.

speaker1: will! where is my play? tell me you have it nearly done! tell me you have it started. you have begun? 
speaker2: doubt that the stars are fire, doubt that the sun doth move
speaker1: no, no, we haven't the time. talk prose. where is my play?
speaker2: it is all locked safe in here
speaker1: be praised! locked?
speaker2: as soon as i have found my muse

speaker1: who is she this time?! 
speaker2: she is always aphrodite.
speaker1: aphrodite baggot who does it behind the dog and trumpet?
speaker2: henslowe, you have no soul so how can you understand the emptiness that seeks a soulmate?
speaker1: well, i am a dead man and buggered to boot. my theatre is close by the plague these twelve weeks, my company is playing the inn-yards of england, while burbage and the chamberlain's men are invited to court and receive ten pounds to play your piece, written for my theatre, by my writer, at my risk when you were green and grateful -
speaker2: what piece? richard crookback?
speaker1: no--it's comedy they want, will! comedy! like romeo and ethel?
speaker2: who wrote that?
speaker1: nobody! you are writing it for me! i gave you three pounds a month since.
speaker2: half what you owed me. i am still due for one gentleman of verona.
speaker1: . . . will! what is money to you and me? i, your patron, you my wordwright! when the plague lifts burbage will have a new christopher marlowe for the curtain and i have nothing for the rose.
speaker2: mr. henslowe, will you lend me fifty pounds?
speaker1: fifty pounds? what for?
speaker2: burbage offers me a partnership in the chamberlain's men. for fifty pounds my hired player days are over.
speaker1: cut out my heart! throw my liver to the dogs!
speaker2: no, then.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: to my weekly confession.

speaker1: words, words, words once, i had the gift i could make love out of words as a potter makes cups out of clay love that overthrows empires, love that binds two hearts together come hellfire and brimstones for sixpence a line, i could cause a riot in a nunnery but now 
speaker2: and yet you tell me you lie with women?
speaker2: black sue, fat phoebe, rosaline, burbage's seamstress; aphrodite, who does it behind the dog and
speaker1: aye, now and again, but what of it? i have lost my gift.
speaker2: i am here to help you. tell me in your own words.
speaker1: i have lost my gift. it's as if my quill is broken. as if the organ of the imagination has dried up. as if the proud tower of my genius has collapsed.
speaker2: interesting.
speaker1: nothing comes.
speaker2: most interesting.
speaker1: it is like trying to a pick a lock with a wet herring.
speaker2: tell me, are you lately humbled in the act of love?
speaker2: how long has it been?
speaker1: a goodly length in times past, but lately
speaker2: no, no. you have a wife, children the sand runs through the hourglass.
speaker3: not much sand left.
speaker1: i was a lad of eighteen. anne hathaway was a woman, half as old again.
speaker2: a woman of property?
speaker1: she had a cottage. one day, she was three months gone with child, so
speaker2: and your relations?
speaker1: on my mother's side the ardens
speaker2: no, your marriage bed.
speaker1: four years and a hundred miles away in stratford. a cold bed too, since the twins were born. banishment was a blessing.
speaker2: so now you are free to love
speaker1: yet cannot love nor write it.
speaker2: here is a bangle found in psyche's temple on olympus cheap at four pence. write your name on a paper and feed it in the snake.
speaker1: will it restore my gift?
speaker2: the woman who wears the snake will dream of you, and your gift will return. words will flow like a river. i will see you in a week.

speaker1: now where? will? 
speaker2: to the palace at whitehall.

speaker1: prithee, mr. kempe, break a leg. you too, good crab. 
speaker2: crab is nervous. he has never played the palace. when will you write me a tragedy, will? i could do it.
speaker1: no, they would laugh at seneca if you played it.
speaker3: there is no dog in the first scene, will kempe, thank you. how goes it will?
speaker1: i am still owed money for this play, burbage.
speaker3: not from me. i only stole it. when are you coming over to the chamberlain's men?
speaker1: when i have fifty pounds.
speaker3: are you writing?
speaker1: a comedy. all but done, a pirate comedy, wonderful.
speaker3: what is the chief part?
speaker1: romeo. wit, swordsman, lover.
speaker3: the title?
speaker1: romeo
speaker3: i will play him. bring it tomorrow.
speaker1: it's for henslowe. he paid me.
speaker3: how much?
speaker1: ten pounds.
speaker3: you're a liar.
speaker1: i swear it. he wants romeo for ned and the admiral's men.
speaker3: ned is wrong for it.
speaker3: here is two sovereigns--i'll give you two more when you show me the pages.
speaker1: done.
speaker4: burbage, i will see you hanged for a pickpocket.
speaker3: the queen has commanded, she loves a comedy and the master of the revels favours us.
speaker4: and what favour does mr. tilney receive from you?
speaker3: ask him.
speaker5: she comes!

speaker1: when will you write me a sonnet, will? 
speaker2: i have lost my gift.
speaker1: you left it in my bed. come to look for it again.
speaker2: are you to be my muse, rosaline?
speaker1: burbage has my keeping but you have my heart.
speaker2: you see? the consumptives plot against me. "will shakespeare has a play, let us go and cough through it."

speaker1: i feel a scene coming on. 
speaker2: is it about a pirate's daughter?

speaker1: you see? comedy. 
speaker2: well played, master crab, i commend you.
speaker1: love and a bit with a dog, that's what they like.

speaker1: "what light is light if silvia be not seen? what joy is joy, if silvia be not by? unless it be to think that she is by and feed upon the shadow of perfection " 
speaker2: there's a lady knows your play by heart.

speaker1: did you like proteus or valentine best? proteus for speaking, valentine for looks. 
speaker2: i liked the dog, for laughs.
speaker1: but silvia i did not care for much. his fingers were red from fighting and he spoke like a schoolboy at lessons. stage love will never be true love while the law of the land has our heroines played by pipsqueak boys in petticoats! oh, when can we see another?
speaker2: when the queen commands it.
speaker1: but at the playhouse. nurse?
speaker2: be still.
speaker2: playhouses are not for well-born ladies.
speaker1: i am not so well-born.
speaker2: well-monied is the same as well-born and well-married is more so. lord wessex was looking at you tonight.
speaker1: all the men at court are without poetry. if they look at me they see my father's fortune. i will have poetry in my life. and adventure. and love. love above all.
speaker2: like valentine and silvia?
speaker1: no . . . not the artful postures of love, but love that over- throws life. unbiddable, ungovernable, like a riot in the heart, and nothing to be done, come ruin or rapture. love like there has never been in a play. i will have love or i will end my days as a . . .
speaker2: as a nurse.
speaker1: but i would be valentine and silvia too. good nurse, save you and good night. i would stay asleep my whole life if i could dream myself into a company of players.
speaker2: clean your teeth while you dream, then.
speaker2: now spit

speaker1: this time we take your boots off! 
speaker2: what have i done, mr. fennyman?
speaker1: the theatres are all closed by the plague!
speaker2: oh, that.
speaker1: by order of the master of the revels!
speaker2: mr. fennyman, let me explain about the theatre business. the natural condition is one of insurmountable obstacles on the road to imminent disaster. believe me, to be close by the plague is a bagatelle in the ups and downs of owning a theatre.
speaker1: so what do we do?
speaker2: nothing. strangely enough , it all turns out well.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: i don't know. it's a mystery.
speaker3: the theatres are reopened. by order of the master of the revels, the theatres are reopened fennyman is intrigued.
speaker4: mr. fennyman! mr. tilney has opened the playhouses.
speaker1: yes i heard.
speaker2: if you wouldn't mind
speaker1: where is the play?
speaker2: oh, it's coming, it's coming.

speaker1: will! the theatres are 
speaker2: romeo and rosaline. scene one! i'm good!
speaker1: rosaline? you mean ethel.

speaker1: richard! 
speaker1: burbage?

speaker1: mr. tilney 
speaker2: like you, i found him not at home!
speaker1: so this is the favour you find in the chamberlain's men.
speaker3: will!
speaker1: i would have made you immortal. tell burbage he has lost a new play by will shakespeare.
speaker2: what does burbage care of that? he is readying the curtain for kit marlowe.
speaker1: you have opened the playhouses?
speaker2: i have, master shakespeare.
speaker1: but the plague
speaker2: yes, i know. but he was always hanging around the house.
speaker3: will you're the only one, will!--in my heart.

speaker1: mr. henslowe! 
speaker2: yes, i heard. the theatres are open. but where is my playwright?
speaker2: chalk it up, nol. i'm hungry, too.
speaker1: the special today is a pig's foot marinated in juniper-berry vinegar, served with a buckwheat pancake which has been
speaker2: will! have you finished?
speaker3: yes. nearly.
speaker2: ned alleyn and the admiral's men are out on tour. i need actors. those here who are unknown will have a chance to be known.
speaker4: what about the money, mr. henslowe?
speaker2: it won't cost you a penny! auditions in half-an-hour!
speaker2: ralph bashford! i'd have a part for you but, alas, i hear you are a drunkard's drunkard.
speaker5: never when i'm working.

speaker1: give me to drink mandragora. 
speaker2: straight up, will?
speaker3: give my friend a beaker of your best brandy.

speaker1: kit 
speaker2: how goes it, will?
speaker1: wonderful, wonderful.
speaker2: burbage says you have a play.
speaker1: i have. and chinks to show for it.
speaker1: i insist--and a beaker for mr. marlowe. the barman does the business.
speaker1: i hear you have a new play for the curtain.
speaker2: not new--my doctor faustus.
speaker1: i love your early work. "was this the face that launched a thousand ships and burnt the towers of ilium?"
speaker2: i have a new one nearly done, and better. the massacre at paris.
speaker1: good title.
speaker2: and yours?
speaker1: romeo and ethel the pirate's daughter. yes, i know.
speaker2: what is the story?
speaker1: well, there's a pirate in truth, i have not written a word.
speaker2: romeo is italian. always in and out of love.
speaker1: yes, that's good. until he meets
speaker2: ethel.
speaker1: do you think?
speaker2: the daughter of his enemy.
speaker1: the daughter of his enemy.
speaker2: his best friend is killed in a duel by ethel's brother or something. his name is mercutio.
speaker1: mercutio good name.
speaker3: will--they're waiting for you!
speaker1: i'm coming.
speaker1: good luck with yours, kit.
speaker2: i thought your play was for burbage.
speaker1: this is a different one.
speaker2: a different one you haven't written?

speaker1: " was this the face that launched a thousand ships, and burnt the towers of ilium? sweet helen, make me immortal with a kiss!" 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: i would like to give you something from faustus by christopher marlowe.
speaker2: how refreshing.
speaker3: "was this the face that launched a thousand ships, and burnt the towers of ilium?"
speaker4: " the towers of ilium? sweet helen, make me immortal with a--?"
speaker2: thank you!
speaker5: "w-w-w-w-was th-th-this th-th-the f-f- f-face "
speaker2: very good, mr. wabash. excellent. report to the property master.
speaker2: my tailor. wants to be an actor. i have a few debts here and there. well, that seems to be everybody. did you see a romeo?
speaker6: i did not.
speaker2: well, i to my work, you to yours. when can i see pages?
speaker6: tomorrow henslowe leaves him.
speaker6: please
speaker7: may i begin, sir?
speaker6: your name?
speaker8: thomas kent. i would like to do a speech by a writer who commands the heart of every player.
speaker8: "what light is light, if silvia be not seen, what joy is joy, if silvia be not by? unless it be to think that she is by and feed upon the shadow of perfection.
speaker8: " except i be by silvia in the night, there is no music in the nightingale. unless i look on silvia in the day, there is no day for me to look upon." will interrupts "him."
speaker6: take off your hat.
speaker8: my hat?
speaker6: where did you learn how to do that?

speaker1: wait there. 
speaker2: are you mr. shakespeare?
speaker1: let me see you. take off your hat.

speaker1: what are we playing? 
speaker2: where are the pages?
speaker3: where's the boy?
speaker4: b-b-b-b-break a l-l-l-leg!

speaker1: follow that boat! 
speaker2: right you are, governor!
speaker2: i know your face. are you an actor?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: yes, i've seen you in something. that one about a king.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: i had the christopher marlowe in my boat once.

speaker1: do you know that house? 
speaker2: sir robert de lesseps.

speaker1: tomorrow he drags me off to the country and it will be three weeks gone before we return from our estates. 
speaker2: save you, mother. ho water, nurse.

speaker1: thomas kent, sir? no sir. 
speaker2: the actor
speaker3: who asks for him?
speaker2: william shakespeare, actor, poet, and playwright of the rose.
speaker3: master kent is my nephew.
speaker2: i will wait.
speaker3: much may it do you.

speaker1: he sees himself in me! romeo montague, a young man of verona. 
speaker2: verona again.
speaker1: a comedy of quarreling families reconciled in the discovery of romeo to be the very same capulet cousin stolen from the cradle and fostered to manhood by his montague mother that was robbed of her own child by the pirate king!

speaker1: be off! 
speaker2: your mother, and your father
speaker3: from tomorrow, away in the country for three weeks! is master shakespeare not handsome?
speaker2: he looks well enough for a mountebank.
speaker3: oh, nurse! he would give thomas kent the life of viola de lesseps's dreaming.
speaker2: my lady, this play will end badly. i will tell.
speaker3: you will not tell. as you love me and as i love you, you will bind my breast and buy me a boy's wig!

speaker1: master plum! what business here? 
speaker2: a five shilling business, will. we play for the dancing.

speaker1: musicians don't eat, sir robert's orders. 
speaker2: i seek master thomas kent.
speaker3: she is a beauty, my lord, as would take a king to church for a dowry of a nutmeg.
speaker4: my plantations in virginia are not mortgaged for a nutmeg. i have an ancient name that will bring you preferment when your grandson is a wessex. is she fertile?
speaker3: she will breed. if she do not, send her back.
speaker4: is she obedient?
speaker3: as any mule in christendom. but if you are the man to rider her, their are rubies in the saddlebag.
speaker4: i like her.
speaker2: by all the stars in heaven, who is she?
speaker5: viola de lesseps. dream on, will.
speaker6: master shakespeare
speaker4: my lady viola.
speaker6: my lord.
speaker4: i have spoken with your father.
speaker6: so my lord? i speak with him every day.
speaker6: good sir ?
speaker6: i heard you are a poet.
speaker6: but a poet of no words?
speaker4: "poet?"
speaker2: i was a poet till now, but i have seen beauty that puts my poems at one with the talking ravens at the tower.
speaker2: how do i offend, my lord?
speaker4: by coveting my property. i cannot shed blood in her house but i will cut your throat anon. you have a name?

speaker1: romeo, romeo . . . a young man of verona. a comedy. by william shakespeare. 
speaker2: my lady!
speaker1: who is there?
speaker2: will shakespeare!
speaker1: anon, good nurse. anon. master shakespeare?!
speaker2: the same, alas.
speaker1: oh but why "alas?"
speaker2: a lowly player.
speaker1: alas indeed, for i thought you the highest poet of my esteem and a writer of plays that capture my heart.
speaker2: oh--i am him too!
speaker1: anon, anon! i will come again.
speaker2: oh, i am fortune's fool, i will be punished for this!
speaker2: oh my lady, my love!
speaker1: if they find you here they will kill you.
speaker2: you can bring them with a word.
speaker1: oh, not for the world!
speaker1: anon, nurse!

speaker1: "draw if you be men! gregory, remember thy washing blow." 
speaker2: "part, fools, put up your swords."
speaker3: it starts well, and then it's all long- faced about some rosaline. where's the comedy, will. where's the dog? do you think it is funny?
speaker4: i was a pirate king, now i'm a nurse. that's funny will pulls henslowe aside.
speaker5: we are at least six men short, and those we have will be overparted, ranters and stutterers who should be sent back to the stews. my romeo has let me down. i see disaster.
speaker3: we are at least four acts short, will, if you are looking for disaster.
speaker5: who are you, master?
speaker6: i am ethel, sir, the pirate's daughter.
speaker7: is it going well?
speaker3: very well.
speaker7: but nothing is happening.
speaker3: yes, but very well.
speaker5: gentlemen! thank you! you are welcome.
speaker7: who is that?
speaker3: nobody. the author.
speaker5: we are about to embark on a great voyage.
speaker3: it is customary to make a little speech on the first day. it does no harm and authors like it.
speaker5: you want to know what parts you are to receive. all will be settled as we go
speaker8: huzzah! the admiral's men are returned to the house!
speaker7: who is this?
speaker8: silence, you i am hieronimo! i am tamburlaine! i am faustus! i am barrabas, the jew of malta--of yes, master will, and i am henry vi. what is the play, and what is my part?
speaker7: a moment, sir!
speaker8: who are you?
speaker7: i am the money!
speaker8: then you may remain so long as you remain silent. pay attention and you will see how genius creates a legend.
speaker7: thank you, sir.
speaker5: we are in desperate want of a mercutio, ned, a young nobleman of verona
speaker8: and the title of this piece?
speaker5: mercutio
speaker3: is it?
speaker8: i will play him!
speaker5: mr. pope! mr. phillips! welcome, george bryan! james armitage! sam! my pretty one! are you ready to fall in love again?
speaker9: i am, master shakespeare.
speaker5: but your voice have they dropped?
speaker9: no, no, a touch of cold only. we suspect he is lying but will has turned away.
speaker5: master henslowe, you have your actors.
speaker7: i saw his tamburlaine, you know. wonderful.
speaker5: yes, i saw it.
speaker7: of course, it was mighty writing. there is no one like marlowe will is used to it. he goes.

speaker1: better fortune, boy. 
speaker2: i was in a play. they cut my head off in titus andronicus. when i write plays, they will be like titus.
speaker1: you admire it?
speaker2: i like it when they cut heads off. and the daughter mutilated with knives.
speaker1: oh. what is your name?
speaker3: john webster. here, kitty, kitty.
speaker2: plenty of blood. that is the only writing.
speaker2: wait, you'll see the cat bites his head off.
speaker1: i have to get back.

speaker1: "i would thou wert so happy by thy stay to hear true shrift. come, madam, let's away." 
speaker2: cut round him for now.
speaker3: what? who?
speaker2: romeo.
speaker3: the one who came with your letter?
speaker2: what?
speaker4: "good morrow, cousin."
speaker5: "is the day so young?"
speaker4: "but new struck nine."
speaker5: "ay me, sad hours seem long. was that my father that went hence so fast?"
speaker4: it was. what sadness lengthens romeo's hours?"
speaker5: "not having that which, having, makes them short."
speaker2: good
speaker4: "in love?"
speaker5: "out."
speaker4: "of love?"
speaker5: "out of her favour where i am in love."
speaker2: no, no, no don't spend it all at once!
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker2: do you understand me?
speaker6: no, sir.
speaker2: he is speaking about a baggage we never even meet! what will be left in your purse when he meets his juliet?
speaker3: juliet? you mean ethel.
speaker2: teeth, am i to suffer this constant stream of interruption?! what will you do in act two when he meets the love of his life?
speaker6: i am very sorry, sir, i have not seen act two.
speaker2: of course you have not! i have not written it!
speaker2: go once more!
speaker7: will where is mercutio?
speaker3: a sonnet? you mean a play.

speaker1: two hours at prayer! 
speaker2: lady viola is pious, my lord.
speaker1: piety is for sunday! and two hours at prayer is not piety, it is self- importance!
speaker2: it would be better that you return tomorrow, my lord.
speaker1: it would be better that you tell her to get off her knees and show some civility to her six-day lord and master.
speaker1: my lady viola.
speaker3: lord wessex. you have been waiting.
speaker1: i am aware of it, but it is beauty's privilege.
speaker3: you flatter, my lord.
speaker1: no. i have spoken to the queen. her majesty's consent is requisite when a wessex takes a wife, and once gained, her consent is her command.
speaker3: do you intend to marry, my lord?
speaker1: your father should keep you better informed. he has bought me for you. he returns from his estates to see us married two weeks from saturday. you are allowed to show your pleasure.
speaker3: i do not love you, my lord.
speaker1: how your mind hops about! your father was a shopkeeper, your children will bear arms, and i will recover my fortune. that is the only matter under discussion today. you will like virginia.
speaker3: virginia?!
speaker1: why, yes! my fortune lies in my plantations. the tobacco weed. i need four thousand pounds to fit out a ship and put my investments to work--i fancy tobacco has a future. we will not stay there long, three or four years . . .
speaker3: but why me?
speaker1: it was your eyes. no, your lips.
speaker1: will you defy your father and your queen?
speaker3: the queen has consented?
speaker1: she wants to inspect you. at greenwich, come sunday. be submissive, modest, grateful and brief.
speaker3: i will do my duty, my lord.

speaker1: gentlemen upstage, ladies downstage! 
speaker2: you did not like the speech?
speaker1: the speech is excellent. "oh, then i see queen mab hath been with you!" excellent and a good length. but then he disappears for the length of a bible.

speaker1: there you have his duel, a skirmish of words and swords such as i never wrote, nor anyone. he dies with such passion and poetry as your ever heard: "a plague on both your houses!" 
speaker2: he dies?

speaker1: will! 
speaker1: and where are my pages . . .

speaker1: did you give her my letter? 
speaker2: and this for you.

speaker1: oh, thomas! she has cut my strings! i am unmanned, unmended, and unmade, like a puppet in a box. 
speaker2: writer, is he?
speaker1: row your boat.

speaker1: she tells me to keep away. she is to marry lord wessex. what should i do? 
speaker2: if you love her, you must do what she asks.
speaker1: and break her heart and mine?
speaker2: it is only ours you can know.
speaker1: she loves me, thomas!
speaker2: does she say so?
speaker1: no. and yet she does where the ink has run with tears. was she weeping when she gave you this?
speaker2: i her letter came to me by the nurse.
speaker1: your aunt?
speaker2: yes, my aunt. but perhaps she wept a little. tell me how you love her, will.
speaker1: like a sickness and its cure together.
speaker2: yes, like rain and sun, like cold and heat. is your lady beautiful? since i came to visit from the country, i have not seen her close. tell me, is she beautiful?
speaker1: oh, if i could write the beauty of her eyes! i was born to look in them and know myself.
speaker2: and her lips?
speaker1: oh, thomas, her lips! the early morning rose would wither on the branch, if it could feel envy!
speaker2: and her voice? like lark song?
speaker1: deeper. softer. none of your twittering larks! i would banish nightingales from her garden before they interrupt her song.
speaker2: she sings too?
speaker1: constantly. without doubt. and plays the lute, she has a natural ear. and her bosom--did i mention her bosom?
speaker2: what of her bosom?
speaker1: oh thomas, a pair of pippins! as round and rare as golden apples!
speaker2: i think the lady is wise to keep your love at a distance. for what lady could live up to it close to, when her eyes and lips and voice may be no more beautiful than mine? besides, can a lady born to wealth and noble marriage love happily with a bankside poet and player?
speaker1: yes, by love knows nothing of rank or riverbank! it will spark between a queen and the poor vagabond who plays the king, and their love should be minded by each, for love denied blights the soul we owe to so tell my lady, william shakespeare waits for her in the garden!
speaker2: but what of lord wessex?
speaker1: for one kiss, i would defy a thousand wessexes!
speaker3: oh, will!
speaker4: thank you, my lady!
speaker1: lady?
speaker4: viola de lesseps. known her since she was this high. wouldn't deceive a child.
speaker4: strangely enough, i'm a bit of a writer myself.
speaker4: it wouldn't take you long to read it, i expect you know all the booksellers
speaker5: but will has gone.

speaker1: can you love a fool? 
speaker2: can you love a player?
speaker1: wait! you are still a maid and perhaps as mistook in me as i was mistook in thomas kent.
speaker2: answer me only this: are you the author of the plays of william shakespeare?
speaker1: i am.
speaker2: then kiss me again for i am not mistook.
speaker2: i do not know how to undress a man.
speaker1: it is strange to me, too.

speaker1: i would not have thought it. there is something better than a play. 
speaker2: there is.
speaker1: even your play.
speaker2: oh
speaker1: and that was only my first try.
speaker2: well perhaps better than my first.

speaker1: will then he starts to get out of bed. 
speaker1: you would not leave me?
speaker2: i must. look-- how pale the window.
speaker1: moonlight!
speaker2: no, the morning rooster woke me.
speaker1: it was the owl--come to bed
speaker2: oh, let henslowe wait.
speaker1: mr. henslowe?
speaker2: let him be for his pages!
speaker1: oh--no, no!
speaker2: there is time. it is still dark.
speaker1: it is broad day! the rooster tells us so!
speaker2: it was the owl. believe me, love, it was the owl.
speaker1: you would leave us players without a scene to read today?!

speaker1: the nurse is knocking. viola comes to the door. 
speaker2: my lady, the house is stirring, it is a new day.
speaker3: it is a new world!

speaker1: " have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?" 
speaker2: "ay pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer."
speaker1: "oh then, dear saint, let lips do what hands to: they pray: grant thou, lest faith turn to despair."
speaker2: "saints do not move, though grant for prayer's sake." and viola misses her cue as a result.
speaker3: it's you.
speaker4: suffering cats!
speaker1: "then move not, while my prayer's effect i take."
speaker1: "thus from my lips, by thine, my sin is purg'd."
speaker2: "then have my lips the sin that they have took."
speaker1: "sin from my lips? oh trespass sweetly urg'd. give me my sin again."
speaker5: yes yes er not quite right it is more let me "then have my lips the sin that they have took."
speaker1: sin from my lips? oh trespass sweetly urg'd. give me my sin again."
speaker1: "you kiss by th' book."
speaker4: well! it was lucky you were here! why do not i write the rest of your play while you
speaker5: yes, yes continue. now the nurse. where is ralph?
speaker6: "madam, your mother craves a word with you."
speaker1: "what is her mother?"
speaker6: "marry bachelor, her mother is the lady of the house " will has retreated to
speaker6: " and a good lady, and wise and virtuous. i nurse her daughter that you talk'd withal "

speaker1: "come hither nurse. what is yond gentleman?" 
speaker2: oh let it be night!

speaker1: "i know not." 
speaker2: "go ask his name--if he be married, my grave is like to be my wedding bed."

speaker1: oh, do not go 
speaker2: i must. i must

speaker1: "his name is romeo, and a montague, the only son of your great enemy." 
speaker2: terrible!

speaker1: "arise fair sun and kill the envious moon who is already sick and pale with grief that thou her maid art far more fair than she " viola is in bed, reading the lines from the manuscript page. will is in bed with her, reading with her. 
speaker1: oh, will!
speaker2: yes, some of it is speakable.
speaker1: "it is my lady, o it is my love! o that she knew she were!"

speaker1: "the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars as daylight doth a lamp. her eyes in heaven would through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing and think it were not night. see how she leans her cheek upon her hand. o that i were a glove upon that hand, that i might touch that cheek. 
speaker2: "ay me."
speaker1: "she speaks. oh speak again bright angel "

speaker1: "or if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love and i'll no longer be a capulet." 
speaker2: "shall i hear more or shall i speak at this?"
speaker3: "what man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night so stumblest on my counsel?"

speaker1: "alack, there lies more peril in thine eye, than twenty of their swords! look thou but sweet, and i am proof against their enmity." 
speaker2: i would not for the world!
speaker1: i have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes; and but thou love me, let them find me here.

speaker1: "good night, good night. as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast. o wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?" 
speaker2: that's my line!
speaker1: oh, but it is mine too!

speaker1: "o wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?" 
speaker2: "what satisfaction can'st thou have tonight?"
speaker1: "the exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine."

speaker1: "my bounty is as boundless as the sea, my love as deep: 
speaker2: the more i give to thee the more i have, for both are infinite."

speaker1: "stay but a little, i will come again." sam leaves the balcony through the curtain. 
speaker2: "oh blessed blessed night."

speaker1: " all my fortunes at thy foot i'll lay, and follow thee my lord throughout the world." 
speaker2: "madam!"
speaker1: "i come, anon--but if thou meanest not well, i do beseech thee--"
speaker2: "madam!"
speaker1: by and by i come to cease thy strife and leave me to my grief. a thousand times good night!"
speaker3: i cannot move in this dress! and it makes me look like a pig! i have no neck in this pig dress! oh, she's off again! she says she's going and then she doesn't

speaker1: how is it? 
speaker2: it's all right.
speaker1: ned i know i know
speaker3: it's good.
speaker1: oh
speaker3: the title won't do.
speaker1: ah
speaker3: romeo and juliet--just a suggestion.
speaker1: thank you, ned.
speaker1: you are a gentleman.
speaker3: and you are a warwickshire shit-house.
speaker4: you mean, no dog of any kind?
speaker2: the friar married them in secret, then ned gets into a fight with one of the capulets, romeo tries to stop them, he gets in ned's way, i mean in mercutio's way, so tybalt kills mercutio and then romeo kills tybalt. then the prince banishes him from verona.
speaker4: that must be when he goes on the voyage and gets shipwrecked on the island of the pirate king. fennyman can't hear it. he storms over. kicks the dog, roars at henslowe .
speaker5: cease your prattling! get out! a thousand apologies!
speaker6: "good night, good night. parting is such sweet sorrow that i shall say good night till it be morrow."

speaker1: sunday it is sunday. 
speaker1: i found something in my sleep. the friar who married them will take up their destinies.
speaker2: oh, but it will end well for love?
speaker1: in heaven, perhaps. it is not a comedy i am writing now. a broad river divides my lovers--family, duty, fate--as unchangeable as nature.
speaker3: not ready? where is she?
speaker4: be patient, my lord, she is dressing.
speaker3: will you ask her majesty to be patient?!
speaker2: sunday! greenwich!

speaker1: the nurse is barring the stairs to wessex. 
speaker2: now, pay attention, nursy. the queen, gloriana regina, chosen vessel, the radiant one, who shines her light on us, is at greenwich today, and prepared, during the evening's festivities, to bestow her gracious favour on my choice of wife--and if we're late for lunch, the old boot will not forgive. so you get you to my lady's chamber and produce her with or without her undergarments.

speaker1: you cannot! not for the queen herself! 
speaker2: what will you have me do? marry you instead?
speaker1: to be the wife of a poor player?--can i wish that for lady viola, except in my dreams? and yet i would, if i were free to follow my desire in the harsh light of day.
speaker2: you follow your desire freely enough in the night. so, if that is all, to greenwich i go.
speaker1: then i will go with you.
speaker2: you cannot, wessex will kill you
speaker1: i know how to fight!
speaker2: stage fighting! oh, will! as thomas kent my heart belongs to you but as viola the river divides us, and i will marry wessex a week from saturday.

speaker1: the ranting from wessex has continued 
speaker2: good morning, my lord!
speaker3: ah! my lady! the tide waits for no man, but i swear it would wait for you!
speaker4: here we come at last, my lord!
speaker3: are you bringing your laundry woman?
speaker4: her chaperone. my lady's country cousin. my, but you be a handsome gallant, just as she said! you may call me miss wilhelmina!
speaker3: on a more fortuitous occasion, perhaps
speaker4: oh, my lord, you will not shake me off, she never needed me more, i sear by your breeches!

speaker1: now? 
speaker2: now.
speaker1: is there a man?
speaker3: a man, my lord?
speaker1: there was a man, poet--a theatre poet, i heard--does he come to the house?
speaker3: a theatre poet?
speaker1: an insolent penny-a-page rogue, marlowe, he said, christopher marlowe--has he been to the house?
speaker3: marlowe? oh yes, he is the one, lovely waistcoat, shame about the poetry.
speaker1: that dog! angle on the queen.
speaker4: your majesty.
speaker5: stand up straight, girl.
speaker5: i have seen you. you are the one who comes to all the plays--at whitehall, at richmond.
speaker4: your majesty.
speaker5: what do you love so much?
speaker4: your majesty
speaker5: speak out! i know who i am. do you love stories of kings and queens? feats of arms? or is it courtly love?
speaker4: i love theatre. to have stories acted for me by a company of fellows is indeed
speaker5: they are not acted for you, they are acted for me. viola remains silent, in apology. angle on will. he is watching and listening. he has never seen the queen so close. he is fascinated.
speaker5: and--?
speaker4: and i love poetry above all.
speaker5: above lord wessex?
speaker5: my lord--when you cannot find your wife you had better look for her at the playhouse.
speaker5: but playwrights teach nothing about love, they make it pretty, they make it comical, or they make it lust. they cannot make it true.
speaker4: oh, but they can!
speaker4: i mean your majesty, they do not, they have not, but i believe there is one who can
speaker1: lady viola is young in the world. your majesty is wise in it. nature and truth are the very enemies of playacting. i'll wager my fortune.
speaker5: i thought you were here because you had none.
speaker5: well, no one will take your wager, it seems.
speaker3: fifty pounds!
speaker5: fifty pounds! a very worthy sum on a very worthy question. can a play show us the very truth and nature of love? i bear witness to the wager, and will be the judge of it as occasion arises. i have not seen anything to settle it yet. so--the fireworks will be soothing after the excitements of lady viola's audience. have her then, but you are a lordly fool. she has been plucked since i saw her last, and not by you. it takes a woman to know it.
speaker1: marlowe!

speaker1: burbage! 
speaker2: who's there?
speaker1: marlowe.
speaker2: kit!

speaker1: you are playing my faustus this afternoon. don't spend yourself in sport. 
speaker2: this afternoon!--we'll still be here this afternoon.
speaker3: what do you want, kit?
speaker1: my massacre at paris is complete.
speaker3: you have the last act?
speaker1: you have the money?
speaker3: tomorrow.
speaker1: then tomorrow you will have the pages.
speaker3: wait! will you desist!
speaker1: twenty pounds on delivery
speaker3: what is money to me like us? besides, if i need a play, i have another waiting, a comedy by shakespeare.
speaker1: romeo?--he gave it to henslowe.
speaker3: never!
speaker1: well, i am to deptford now, i leave my respects, miss rosaline.
speaker3: i gave shakespeare two sovereigns for romeo!
speaker1: you did. but ned alleyn and the admiral's men have the playing of it as the rose.
speaker3: treachery!
speaker3: traitor and thief!

speaker1: "by my head, here comes the capulets." 
speaker2: "by my heel, i care not."
speaker3: "follow me close, for i will speak to them. gentlemen, good e'en: a word with one of you." ned comes out of character.
speaker4: are you going to do it like that? and before the humbled actor can reply ned continues.
speaker4: and but one word with one of us? couple it with something, make it a word and a blow.
speaker5: where is that thieving hack who can't keep his pen in his own ink pot!?
speaker6: what is this rabble?!
speaker7: not with my props!
speaker8: will! what--?
speaker6: a literary feud. quite normal.
speaker6: stay hid!

speaker1: we need that for the balcony scene! 
speaker1: my poor rose!
speaker2: my investment! lambert!!!
speaker1: i want no more trouble, mr. fennyman. as i explained to you, the theatre business
speaker2: henslowe, you pound of tripe, in my business i would be out of business if i had your courage, so don't tell me about business

speaker1: a famous victory! kegs and legs. open and on the house! oh what happy hour! 
speaker2: poxy pol! you keep yourself to yourself i'll not have you infecting my investment!
speaker3: looking around guardedly. to
speaker4: is this a tavern?
speaker5: it is also a tavern.
speaker6: i remember you! the poet!
speaker6: one at a time, one at a time!
speaker7: oh, he's a pretty one! tell me your story while i tickle your fancy!
speaker3: oh!--it's--it's--oh, it's a house of ill- repute!
speaker5: it is, thomas, but of good reputation. come, there is no harm in a drink.
speaker8: never when i'm working!
speaker6: never tried it? never? i think you are ready, sam!
speaker1: you are welcome to my best house! here's to the admiral's men!
speaker3: the admiral's men!

speaker1: i quite liked it. 
speaker2: master kent! you have not dipped your wick?
speaker3: my wick?
speaker4: mr. fennyman, because you love the theatre you must have a part in my play. i am writing an apothecary, a small but vital role.
speaker2: i am to be in your play.
speaker5: and what is this play about?
speaker6: well, there's this nurse
speaker2: mr. shakespeare has given me the part of the apothecary!
speaker7: the apothecary? will, what is the story? where is the shipwreck? how does the comedy end?
speaker4: by i wish i knew.
speaker7: by will, if you do not, who does? let us have pirates, clowns, and a happy ending, or we will send you back to stratford to your wife!
speaker8: will! mr. henslowe! gentlemen all!
speaker8: a black day for us all! there is news come up river from deptford. marlowe is dead.
speaker8: stabbed! stabbed to death in a tavern at deptford!
speaker4: oh what have i done?
speaker9: he was the first man among us. a great light has gone out.
speaker4: it was i who killed him! forgive me, forgive me!

speaker1: you look sad, my lady! let me take you riding. 
speaker2: it is not my riding day, my lord.
speaker1: bless me, i thought it was a horse.
speaker2: i am going to church.
speaker1: i understand of course. it is to be expected.
speaker2: it is to be expected on a sunday.
speaker1: and on a day of mourning. i never met the fellow but once at your house.
speaker2: mourning? who is dead, my lord?
speaker1: oh!--dear i did not think it would be me to tell you. a great loss to playwriting, and to dancing. viola almost faints. the nurse steadies her.
speaker2: he is dead?
speaker3: my lady my lady now is the time to show your breeding.

speaker1: oh, spare me, dear ghost, spare me for the love of christ! 
speaker1: spare me!

speaker1: will! 
speaker1: oh, my love, i thought you were dead!
speaker2: it is worse. i have killed a man.

speaker1: marlowe's touch was in my titus andronicus and my henry vi was a house built on his foundations. 
speaker2: you never spoke so well of him.
speaker1: he was not dead before. i would exchange all my plays to come for all of his that will never come.
speaker2: you lie.
speaker2: you lie in your meadow as you lied in my bed.
speaker1: my love is no lie. i have a wife, yes, and i cannot marry the daughter of sir robert de lesseps. it needed no wife come from stratford to tell you that. and yet you let me come to your bed.
speaker2: calf love. i loved the writer, and gave up the prize for a sonnet.
speaker1: i was the more deceived.
speaker3: yes--you were deceived. for i never loved you till now.
speaker1: now?
speaker2: i love you, will, beyond poetry.
speaker1: oh, my love you ran from me before.
speaker2: you were not dead before. when i thought you dead, i did not care about all the plays that will never come, only that i would never see your face. i saw our end, and it will come.
speaker1: you cannot marry wessex!
speaker2: if not wessex the queen will know the cause and there will be no more will shakespeare.
speaker1: no no.

speaker1: but the friar who married romeo and juliet 
speaker2: is that me. will?
speaker1: you, edward. the friar who married them gives juliet a potion to drink. it is a secret potion. it makes her seeming dead. she is placed in the tomb of the capulets. she will awake to life and love when romeo comes to her side again.
speaker1: i have not said all. by malign fate, the message goes astray which would tell romeo of the friar's plan. he hears only that juliet is dead. and thus he goes to the apothecary.
speaker3: that's me.
speaker1: and buys a deadly poison. he enters the tomb to say farewell to juliet who lies there cold as death. he drinks the poison. he dies by her side. and then she wakes and sees him dead.
speaker1: and so juliet takes his dagger and kills herself.
speaker4: will is staring at viola
speaker5: well, that will have them rolling in the aisles.
speaker3: sad and wonderful! i have a blue velvet cap which will do well, i have seen apothecary with a cap just so.

speaker1: the play. all written out for you. i had the clerk at bridewell do it, he has a good fist for lettering. 
speaker1: there's a new scene he turns the pages and shows her.
speaker2: will you read it for me?
speaker1: "wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day> it was the nightingale and not the lark that pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear. nightly she sings on yon pomegranate tree. believe me, love, it was the nightingale."
speaker2: "it was the lark, the herald of the morn, no nightingale. look, love, what envious streaks do lace the severing clouds in yonder east. night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. i must be gone and live, or stay and die." the words of the scene become will's and viola's, their way of saying the farewells they cannot utter.
speaker1: "yon light is not daylight, i know it, i. it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer "

speaker1: " thou need'st not to be gone." 
speaker2: "i have more care to stay than will to go. come death, and welcome. juliet wills it so. how is't my soul? let's talk. it is not day."
speaker3: you will go far, i fear.
speaker3: i hope we work together again. tilney walks away.

speaker1: "such mortal drugs i have but mantua's law is death to any he that utters them." then him. then me. 
speaker1: "such mortal drugs i have " what is it? what is it?

speaker1: my lord! 
speaker2: shakespeare!
speaker2: you upstart inky pup! now i will show you your place, which is in hell!
speaker3: you are on my ground.
speaker2: by i'll fight the lot of you will draws his sword.
speaker3: i am more than enough.
speaker3: absent friends! this is the murderer of kit marlowe!
speaker4: will
speaker2: i rejoiced at his death because i thought it was yours. that is all i know of marlowe.
speaker4: it's true, will--it was a tavern brawl marlowe attacked, and got his own knife in the eye. a quarrel about the bill
speaker5: the bill! oh, vanity, vanity!
speaker4: not the billing, the bill!
speaker3: oh i am free of it!
speaker2: close it!
speaker6: my lord wessex!
speaker2: close it! take it down stone by stone! i want it ploughed into the ground, and sown with quick lime!
speaker5: mr. tilney, what is this?
speaker6: sedition and indecency!
speaker5: what?!
speaker1: master of the revels, sir, over here, sir.
speaker6: where, boy?
speaker1: i saw her bubbies!
speaker6: a woman on the stage? a woman?
speaker1: i swear it!

speaker1: so, henslowe! i say this theatre is closed! on the authority of the powers invested in my by the court--i close this theatre! 
speaker2: why so?
speaker3: not him. her.
speaker2: he's a woman!
speaker1: that's who i meant! this theatre is closed! notice will be posted!
speaker2: ned, i swear i knew nothing of this!
speaker4: nobody knew!
speaker1: closed! closed, mark you, henslowe!
speaker2: it is over.
speaker4: i am so sorry, mr. henslowe. i wanted to be an actor. i am sorry, will.
speaker5: y-y-y-you w-w-w-were w-w-w-w- wonderful.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker6: everything all right?

speaker1: i would have been good i would have been great. 
speaker2: so would i. we both would.
speaker1: lambert!
speaker1: kill him!

speaker1: well, burbage--you never did know when your scene was over. 
speaker2: that can wait. the master of the revels despises us for vagrants, tinkers, and peddlers of bombast. but my father, james burbage, had the first licence to make a company of players from her majesty, and he drew from poets the literature of the age. their fame will be our fame. so let them all know, we are men of parts. we are a brotherhood, and we will be a profession. will shakespeare has a play. i have a theatre. the curtain is yours.

speaker1: with mr. fennyman as the apothecary 
speaker2: will!
speaker2: we'll be needing a romeo will carries on walking.

speaker1: my ship is moored at bankside, bound for virginia on the afternoon tide--please do not weep, lady de lesseps, you are gaining a colony. 
speaker2: and you are gaining five thousand pounds, my lord by these drafts in my hand.
speaker1: would you oblige me with fifty or so in gold?--just to settle my accounts at the dockside?
speaker1: ah!--look, she comes!

speaker1: my lord! 
speaker1: be good to her, my lord!
speaker2: i will.
speaker1: bless you!
speaker2: thank you. let go, there's a good nurse.
speaker2: the tide will not wait. farewell!

speaker1: fennyman approaches him, apothecary's cap in hand. 
speaker2: is this all right?

speaker1: we are lost. 
speaker2: no, it will turn out well.
speaker1: how will it?
speaker2: i don't know, it's a mystery.

speaker1: wonderful! 
speaker2: w-w-w-was it g-g-g-good?
speaker3: "gregory, on my word we'll not carry coals."
speaker4: "no, for then we should be colliers." will looks as if he would rather be dead. sam gosse approaches will, nervously.
speaker5: master shakespeare
speaker1: luck be with you, sam. sam ?
speaker5: it is not my fault, master shakespeare. i could do it yesterday.
speaker1: sam! do me a speech, do me a line.
speaker5: "parting is such sweet sorrow " henslowe has been overhearing.
speaker6: another little problem.
speaker1: what do we do now?
speaker6: the show must you know
speaker1: go on.
speaker6: juliet does not come on for twenty pages. it will be all right.
speaker1: how will it?
speaker6: i don't know. it's a mystery.

speaker1: "do you bite your thumb at us, sir?" 
speaker2: "i do bite my thumb, sir."
speaker3: can we talk?
speaker3: we have no juliet!
speaker4: no juliet?!
speaker5: no juliet?!
speaker3: it will be all right, madam.
speaker5: what happened to sam?
speaker3: who are you?
speaker5: thomas kent!
speaker3: do you know it?
speaker5: every word.

speaker1: "nurse, where is my daughter? call her forth to me." 
speaker2: "now by my maidenhead at twelve year old, i bade her come. what, lamb. what ladybird."

speaker1: "what, juliet!" 
speaker2: "how now, who calls?"
speaker1: "your mother."
speaker2: "madam. i am here, what is your will?

speaker1: we will all be put in the clink. 
speaker2: see you in jail.

speaker1: "i am hurt. 
speaker2: courage man. the hurt cannot be much.
speaker3: ask for me tomorrow and you shall find me a grave man."
speaker1: " --why the devil came you between us? i was hurt under your arms."

speaker1: "romeo, away, be gone! the citizens are up and tybalt slain. stand not amazed. the prince will doom thee death if thou art taken. hence, be gone away!" 
speaker2: "i am fortune's fool!"
speaker1: "why dost thou stay!"

speaker1: i am fortune's fool. 
speaker1: you are married?
speaker1: if you be married, my gave is like to be my wedding bed. the implication of her silence fills the air. will does not move.

speaker1: "art thou gone so? 
speaker1: love, lord, ay husband, friend, i must hear from thee every day in the hour, for in a minute there are many days. o, by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo "
speaker2: " farewell "
speaker1: "o think'st thou we shall ever meet again ? methinks i see thee, now thou art so low, as one dead in the bottom of a tomb. either my eyesight fails, or thou lookest pale."
speaker2: "trust me, love, in my eyes so do you. dry sorrow drinks our blood. adieu. adieu"
speaker3: "no warmth, no breath shall testify thou livest and in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death thou shall continue two and forty hours and then awake as from a pleasant sleep "

speaker1: "come hither, man. i see that thou art poor. hold, there is forty ducats. let me have a dram of poison--" 
speaker2: "such mortal drugs i have but mantua's law is death to any he that utters them!"
speaker2: "my poverty but not my will consents."
speaker1: "i pay thy poverty and not thy will."

speaker1: "here's to my love o true apothecary." 
speaker2: i was good. i was great.

speaker1: "thy drugs are quick. thus with a kiss i die." 
speaker2: " where is my lord?

speaker1: "what here? a cup clos'd in my true love's hand? poison, i see, hath been his timeless end." 
speaker1: " o happy dagger

speaker1: i arrest you in the name of queen elizabeth! the audience goes quiet. burbage jumps out of the audience onto the stage. 
speaker2: arrest who, mr. tilney?
speaker1: everybody! the admiral's men, the chamberlain's men and everyone of you ne'er-do-wells who stands in contempt of the authority invested in me by her majesty.
speaker2: contempt? you closed the rose--i have not opened it.
speaker1: that woman is a woman!
speaker3: what?! a woman?! you mean that goat?!
speaker1: i'll see you all in the clink! in the same of her majesty queen elizabeth
speaker4: mr. tilney !
speaker5: have a care with my name, you will wear it out.
speaker5: the queen of england does not attend exhibitions of public lewdness so something is out of joint. come here, master kent. let me look at you.
speaker5: yes, the illusion is remarkable and your error, mr. tilney, easily forgiven, but i know something of a woman in a man's profession, yes, by i do know about that. that is enough from you, maser kent. if only lord wessex were here.
speaker4: he is, ma'am.
speaker6: your majesty
speaker5: there was a wager, i remember as to whether a play can show the very truth and nature of love. i think you lost it today. you are an eager boy. did you like the play?
speaker7: i liked it when she stabbed herself, your majesty.
speaker5: master shakespeare. next time to you come to greenwich, come as yourself and we will speak some more. will bows deeply. the queen turns to leave. the waves part for her.

speaker1: your majesty! 
speaker2: why, lord wessex! lost your wife so soon?
speaker1: indeed i am a bride short. how is this to end?
speaker2: as stories must when love's denied--with tears and a journey. those whom has joined in marriage, not even i can put asunder.
speaker2: lord wessex, as i foretold, has lost his wife in the play- house--go make your farewell and send her out. it's time to settle accounts. how much was the wager?
speaker1: fifty shillings. pounds.
speaker2: give it to master kent. he will see it rightfully home. wessex gives his purse to viola.
speaker2: too late, too late.

speaker1: my lady wessex? 
speaker2: a hired player no longer. fifty pounds, will, for the poet of true love.
speaker1: i am done with theatre. the playhouse is for dreamers. look where the dream has brought us.
speaker2: it was we ourselves did that. and for my life to come i would not have it otherwise.
speaker1: i have hurt you and i am sorry for it.
speaker2: if my hurt is to be that you will write no more, then i shall be the sorrier.
speaker2: the queen commands a comedy, will for twelfth night.
speaker1: a comedy! what will my hero be but the saddest wretch in the kingdom, sick with love?
speaker2: an excellent beginning let him be a duke. and your heroine?
speaker1: sold in marriage and half way to america.
speaker2: at sea, then--a voyage to a new world? she lands upon a vast and empty shore. she is brought to the duke orsino.
speaker1: orsino good name
speaker2: but fearful of her virtue, she comes to him dressed as a boy
speaker2: but all ends well.
speaker1: how does it?
speaker2: i don't know. it's a mystery
speaker1: you will never age for me, nor fade, nor die.
speaker2: nor you for me.
speaker1: good bye, my love, a thousand times good bye.
speaker2: write me well.

speaker1: my story starts at sea a perilous voyage to an unknown land a shipwreck 
speaker1: the wild waters roar and heave the brave vessel is dashed all to pieces, and all the helpless souls within her drowned
speaker1: all save one a lady
speaker1: whose soul is greater than the ocean and her spirit stronger than the sea's embrace not for her watery end, but a new life beginning on a stranger shore
speaker1: it will be a love story for she will be my heroine for all time
speaker1: and her name will be viola.

