speaker1: nice reporting klein. how `bout you show me what you learned? 
speaker1: maybe later.
speaker2: hey, amy...
speaker3: morning...
speaker4: morning? it's half past four.
speaker3: mmm...
speaker4: mr. rickman... amy's here. right.

speaker1: ...the delightful and world-famous amy klein. have a seat, angel of light. 
speaker2: eat me, charles.
speaker1: it's exactly that lack of respect for authority that got you fired from the new york post.
speaker2: i wasn't fired. i was re-assigned.
speaker1: of course. where would you be without me? by the way, i don't recall ever being thanked properly for this "re- assignment". charles makes air quotes with his fingers.
speaker1: lucky for you i opened my doors to you here as soon as i heard you were "available".

speaker1: hey a contract's a contract. 
speaker1: look, if all this about me being late with the crack story it's all right here -- and it's gold. i was just about to-

speaker1: so what then? are we being sued again? 
speaker2: hmm? oh no. please feel free to have some of that.
speaker1: thanks. what is this? general tso's cat?
speaker2: spare me the "nothing comes close to new york chinese" speech just this once. go on, sit down. just something i wanted to show you...
speaker2: okay... rewind, rewind? rewind.
speaker2: somebody mailed us this thing around two weeks ago but, in keeping with our usual level of efficiency, betty didn't get around to opening it `til this morning. then she brought it to me.
speaker1: what is it?

speaker1: what's the matter? this x-rated or something? 
speaker2: something. amy, with your encyclopedic world-wide knowledge of skank-ology -- have you ever heard of "deaders?"
speaker1: oh, sure. they're generally in their forties, kind of ex-hippy types. they still think jerry garcia is like "really cool" even though he's dead.
speaker2: not dead-heads...
speaker1: you know, sometimes they wear ponytails. dream about how great the sixties were. you see `em in the park sometimes...
speaker2: love of my life, go screw yourself. i'm asking you a serious question.
speaker1: no, charles. i've never heard of "deaders."
speaker2: watch the tape.

speaker1: and here's our deader bed -- this is the scene of the crime. crime to be... he camera moves in on winter. 
speaker1: and here is the fearless leader of the deaders... winter.
speaker2: shh. quiet. we're starting.
speaker3: do you become one of us of your own free will?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: are you afraid?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: good. fear is the place we go to learn.
speaker3: my skin isn't real. my eyes aren't real. my muscles aren't real. my bones, my heart, my veins and nerves, and flesh and meat... aren't real. what i see, what i hear, what i taste, what i touch, what i remember, what i think, what i feel, aren't real.
speaker2: go on.
speaker1: i'm not real.
speaker1: i'm not real...
speaker1: i'm not... i'm not real...

speaker1: holy ... charles... 
speaker2: just keep watching.

speaker1: i'm not real. i'm not... 
speaker1: i'm not real. i'm not... i'm not...

speaker1: just watch... 
speaker2: i want to know if you've called the pol...
speaker1: i said, "just watch."
speaker2: oh, man, don't tell me that was some special effect...
speaker1: you tell me.
speaker2: this is sick...
speaker1: that's saying a lot, for you.

speaker1: she touches the wound again. 
speaker2: i feel great...
speaker3: oh, man! oh, man...
speaker4: what the hell...
speaker5: that's what i said.
speaker4: have you... have you found any of these...
speaker5: i haven't done anything. i told you, i just looked at it today. by some chance are you... interested in pursuing this?
speaker5: look, amy. maybe this is just some kind of bull-shit shot-on-tape gore movie. and since that's all it can be, that's all you're going find, but it sure smells different to me. if it's bull-shit, you'll know pretty fast. if it's not...
speaker4: how could she...

speaker1: who said miracles can only happen at lourdes? 
speaker2: who said they happen there?
speaker3: amy... you know what my father said once...
speaker2: that all writers were queers?
speaker1: no, that was a different time. this time, we were driving down the block and there was this fortune-telling place, you know, this gypsy fortune telling place in a store front? and he said, "you know, if i could tell the future i wouldn't be living in any crappy store front." he looks back at the tape.
speaker1: if i could do that, i wouldn't be hanging out in some rundown basement. i'd own the earth.
speaker2: maybe they're just getting started.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: what else do we have besides the tape?
speaker1: just a return address on the envelope.

speaker1: looks like your online fan-base is growing. it's an address in bucharest. it's where all the euro-trash kids looking for a good time are heading these days. amsterdam is so 90's. 
speaker2: why charles...
speaker1: i still like to keep my finger on the pulse, even though i know you think i don't have one.
speaker1: your ticket, hotel and per diem.
speaker2: you know me too well.
speaker1: it's what keeps me up at night. now here's the part where i'm supposed to say be careful. be careful.
speaker2: always.
speaker1: call me when you get settled.

speaker1: have you lost something? 
speaker2: yes, i ah.....
speaker2: no. i'm looking for my sister. marla chen.
speaker1: you're not chinese.

speaker1: she's my half sister. same mom. different dads. i haven't heard from her in two weeks so i got nervous. 
speaker1: does it always smell like this in here?
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: look. marla is a friend of mine and she's missing.
speaker1: i need five minutes in there. then i'll know what i need to know.
speaker2: five minutes.

speaker1: she's dead... 
speaker2: dead...
speaker1: dead! she hung herself in the bathroom.

speaker1:  
speaker2: stop her!

speaker1: i knew you'd come. course if you're watching this tape, it's already too late for me. but maybe you can stop it. 
speaker1: he promised us pleasures beyond anything we could ever imagine. we just had to fight through the pain first. easier said than done. don't open the box amy. if you do winter wins, and if he wins-
speaker1: someone pounds on a door. marla panics.

speaker1: go to pletkow station at midnight. go to the south end of the platform and step onto the last car. find a guy named joey who runs the show and tell him i sent you. he'll guide you to them. 
speaker2: marla!
speaker1: save them amy. please...
speaker2: marla!
speaker1: those you trust the most -- trust the least.
speaker3: don't open it. right.
speaker3: yeah...

speaker1: you know i don't sleep when i'm working. what do you want, charles? 
speaker2: you were supposed to call me.
speaker1: you know me, i dove right in. i was gonna' call you tomorrow.
speaker2: the thing is... i started thinking.
speaker1: you know that's never a good thing charles.
speaker2: look. i know the crazy stuff you do for a story.
speaker1: that's what i get paid for.
speaker2: and that's why i hired you. it's just. just... the thing is, amy... some things you shouldn't do, you know what i mean?
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: look, i say this to you, but in my heart i know that one time it's going to happen... that you're going to end up, i don't know -- dead or knows what. but when it does happen, i don't want it to be my fault. she watches the image of the little girl fade.

speaker1: okay, charles. i'll make sure it won't be. 
speaker2: you know, you're messing with my conscience, here. amy...
speaker1: charles, i can't do the sensitive thing. i don't know how. i get the message. i knew the message before i got it. okay, mommy? you've had a change of heart? you want me to come home? well i can't. not until i know the truth. so there. you're off the hook. i gotta go.

speaker1: charles, i get the message. ok? your my editor, not my mommy! charles? 
speaker1: hello? hello?

speaker1: next car. 
speaker2: is joey on this ride?
speaker3: come on in...

speaker1: ahhhh, now here comes a daring soul. a person committed to a just cause. another seeker of the truth no doubt. 
speaker1: i like what i see inside of you.
speaker2: are you joey?
speaker1: i've been called worse.
speaker1: and i have the privilege of meeting...
speaker2: amy klein. marla chen sent me. i'm looking for a girl named katya. another young girl with red hair and half her head shaved. a guy with glasses named winter.
speaker1: and the plot thickens. don't tell me you're mixed up with those mother tell me amy klein, do you even know what they're about?

speaker1: that's why i'm here. i need you to help me find them. 
speaker2: oh, jeez. moral quandary time here... what should he do, what should he do? if he tells her -- the hopefully available and eminently fuckable damsel is thrown into the pit of oblivion -- or anyway is potentially up for life. and that would be such a regrettable waste. if he refrains from telling her... she may yet be saved. a possible trophy awaits me. angel and devil on the shoulder... hmm. angel, devil, angel, devil. oh, the with it entropy's destroying everything anyway. why shouldn't i do my part?

speaker1: tell me what you know about the deaders. 
speaker2: you first. what do you think they do?
speaker3: i think they bring the dead back to life.
speaker2: is that what you really think?
speaker3: who are they? where can i find winter?
speaker2: some people say winter's some sort of fucked-up guru, some say he's not human, and others say he's not real. but there is a place they hang out -- those who believe i mean.
speaker3: where is it?
speaker3: joey...
speaker2: angel, devil, angel, devil.

speaker1: if you don't tell me, someone here will. 
speaker2: yeah, you see, now that's the problem. you've got that up self- destructive thing going on.
speaker1: i'm already into it.
speaker2: angel, devil, angel, devil
speaker2: this is making me very unhappy...
speaker2: poteilari and minvara. on the northeast corner, two doors down, there's a stairway going down into a closed up building. it's always locked, and they're not always there. i don't know where they are when they're not. and once you get mixed up with them -- it's like that story with the tar baby -- chances are you never get loose, and if you do, you never get clean.
speaker3: coming in!
speaker2: i can't take responsibility for you.
speaker1: i'm not asking you to.

speaker1: amy klein, i'm doing a change of heart thing here, which doesn't usually happen with strangers, but i'm trying to give a little back, it's this whole karma kick i'm on -- don't do it. don't go any deeper. forget about it. move away. change your name. become somebody different. 
speaker2: can't do that. i've got that up self- destructive thing going on.
speaker1: yes you do.
speaker1: only he can bring you back!

speaker1: amy klein! 
speaker2: hey! you hit someone! someone fell in front of the train! hey! hey!
speaker2: somebody fell... somebody fell in front of the train.
speaker3: where? where is he? where'd he fall?
speaker2: back there, way back...

speaker1: well, the men have looked. 
speaker2: and there's nothing there?
speaker1: you don't seem terribly surprised.
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: i mean, you don't seem terribly surprised that there isn't somebody under the train. a
speaker3: i don't know what to say. i saw him...
speaker1: yeah. that's the thing. can you tell me again, just what it is that you saw?
speaker2: um, i was standing on the platform...

speaker1: ...and, um... i saw this man standing on the edge of the platform, facing away from it. 
speaker2: did he say anyth...
speaker1: it's him.!
speaker2: hey...
speaker2: hey, stop! tomislav! tomislav!
speaker1: it's them! over there, over there!
speaker1: it, get off of me! get the off of me... get...

speaker1: is this where they keep the cheaper whores? 
speaker1: christ, you're lucky to have a boss like me. once again, i have saved your small but relatively shapely behind.
speaker2: least you got to travel. what were they going to charge me with, anyway?
speaker1: charge you? they were thinking of shipping you to the government asylum for observation -- and believe me if you go in there, you don't come out. but through my mastery of international negotiations i managed to convince them that you were merely irresponsible. you got your stuff?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: come on.

speaker1: why'd you give me this story? 
speaker2: who else would have taken it? either they're going to think it's bull-shit, or they're going to be too afraid of it. but amy klein... tell me it's real amy.
speaker1: it's real -- or i'm crazy.
speaker2: well, either way, it's a good story.
speaker1: i've got leads. i'll know in the end.
speaker2: you know, amy dearest, for the average person, hunger for knowledge is like hunger... for food. we want to know just enough to take the edge off our appetite. then we're satisfied, and we stop. but you... you're like a glutton. you can't help over-eating.
speaker1: i don't see you complaining.
speaker2: but you see, that's the point. that's why i need you. because all that stuff i don't eat... i still want. so i send you in to do the eating for me, and so i get to experience it, without actually suffering any mental indigestion.
speaker1: that's for me...
speaker2: nobody's forcing anything down your throat. correct?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: you see, amy, you never grew up with all this catholic and guilt stuff. it doesn't mean anything to you. i worry about and heaven and hell. not during the day, you understand, but around three in the morning, it keeps me up. i want to know what's coming. what's up in heaven and down in hell, or even if there's nothing. it's useful, when you're making plans. so go find out and we'll tell the world.
speaker1: you know, charles, there's something vaguely demonic about you.
speaker2: did you know, the word "demon" comes from the greek word for "knowledge." as in "demonstrate."
speaker1: no, i didn't know that.
speaker2: american education.

speaker1: then back to your room, lie down in your coffin until the hours of daylight have passed, as is your wont -- then go get me my story. a 
speaker2: you don't have to worry.
speaker1: i never do. i'm not here to save people and i'm not here to judge them. i just take `em as they come. and use them as they pass by. i'll be at the soffitel.

speaker1:  
speaker1: welcome to club anorexia...
speaker1: what the...

speaker1: amy klein. 
speaker2: you know me.
speaker1: i chose you.
speaker2: that was a of a way in. makes me think that you don't want...
speaker1: people come in here the way they want. if it was difficult, then that was the way you wanted it. a little danger. a little mystery. that's what you expected. that's what you found.

speaker1: were you afraid, amy? just now? and during your little "rite of passage" through the walls? 
speaker2: yes. was it real?
speaker1: and were you afraid when you saw marla chen? of what you found in the bathroom?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you took something from her?
speaker1: do you have it with you?
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: my great grandfather created that box. he left it as a...gift. a way to cheat death, an entrance to everlasting pleasures, and it belongs to me. though there are others who would disagree.
speaker2: marla warned me about it, about you.
speaker1: really? should i be honored or afraid that you are here, amy klein. do you really think you can just go along with us for a little ride and then get off when it suits you? like your new friends on the train? you're not going to find it so easy to get off this train.

speaker1: so i shouldn't get on? 
speaker2: your already on it. don't dance with me, amy klein. don't think for a second that you aren't in danger. you are in more danger than ever imagined possible.
speaker1: what the does that mean?
speaker3: listen to me. there are things that are true in the light of day. there are other things that are no less true, that live in the shadows. when you shine a light on them, they disappear. they stop being true. that's because it is the uncertainty of the dark that makes them possible. if the dark is deep enough... anything might be happening in it.
speaker1: what happened to marla chen? what did you do to her? he stands and walks away from amy.
speaker3: marla? why, i accepted her, that's all. that's all i've ever done for the people who come to me.
speaker1: she didn't want to become one of you, whatever the you are. that's why she killed herself.
speaker2: oh, but she did. and what makes you so sure she's dead?

speaker1: winter the more she doubts, the deader she becomes. but she'll never really die, because she's not really alive. 
speaker2: that doesn't mean anything. what i saw in that room was real. what i smelled was real. real like this table.
speaker2: real like, like this hand...
speaker3: you say this is real?
speaker3: epidermis. the dorsal fascia. transverse carpal ligament across here...
speaker3: the median nerve underneath it. down here, the carpal bones... and do you think that all those parts are what makes a hand? i'll show you what makes a hand... here...

speaker1: close on amy's hand, trembling in winter's grip. 
speaker2: this thing here isn't a presence. it's an absence. it's a place where things are missing. in all essential qualities, it is less than nothing. in all essential qualities, we are less than nothing. not solid, not here, not real. amy finds herself responding, falling under his spell. flashback:

speaker1: what did you see? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: what are you afraid of, amy?
speaker2: i'm not afraid of you.
speaker1: yes you are, but still you can't run -- you won't run. i wonder why that is? i'm no devil. i'm no monster. amy, i'll never hurt you and i'll never leave you. amy doesn't answer. winter extends to her a knife. winter accept my gift. no more fear. no more questions. no one can ever hurt you again.
speaker2: no, get... get away...
speaker4: my skin isn't real. my eyes aren't real. my muscles aren't real. my bones, my heart, my veins and nerves, and flesh and meat... aren't real-

speaker1: lie down amy. it'll only hurt for a second. i promise. 
speaker2: you're crazy.
speaker3: - what i see, what i hear, what i taste, what i touch, what i remember, what i think, what i feel, aren't real.
speaker1: no more pain. only pleasure.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: amy it's charles, i know it's not too late.
speaker1: you just can't go too long without hearing my voice.
speaker2: guilty. look, amy, i've been thinking about the story about what happened, maybe this isn't for you.
speaker1: charles, you know i value your opinion-
speaker2: - she said with condescension-
speaker1: - but if there was ever a story i was born to write, this is it.
speaker2: i think it's too dangerous, for a lot of reasons.
speaker1: this isn't like you.

speaker1: i know. i'm going to hate myself in the morning. 
speaker2: i'm just a little... in the head. that's all. it's just a funk, but i'm fine. all i need is some sleep.
speaker1: ok. i just thought i'd put it out there to see if you'd bite. i should've known better. it goes against my instincts.

speaker1: that's what i love about you. i'll call you tomorrow. hey, charles, did you know that the word "demon" comes from the greek word for knowledge. 
speaker2: yes i believe i've heard that somewhere before.
speaker3: well, i wish somebody had told me about it.

speaker1: it's not real... it's not real. 
speaker1: wake up... wake up... wake up...

speaker1: "--to all of us - there comes the closing of the doors - the entrances - the exits - so that one may pass no more out or in..." he closes the book, turns toward her. 
speaker1: walt whitman. i like your taste in books.
speaker2: came with the room. along with the uncomfortable couch.
speaker2: who are you? why did you do this to me?
speaker1: i didn't. believe me, when i want to hurt you, it will be more than a scratch.
speaker2: then why the are you here? why are you in my room?
speaker1: this isn't your room. it's mine...
speaker2: what...

speaker1: this is my room, my building, my street... my world. you still can't believe that you're in the "real" world, can you? i mean... you've just had a a knife run through you. shouldn't it hurt? 
speaker2: it's a dream. i'm dreaming...
speaker1: no. dreams come to an end. nightmares are forever. he approaches her. she backs away.
speaker1: you've been recruited as a soldier in another man's war. a war he will never win, that i can assure you.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: you will. soon enough. but one shouldn't worship false gods. especially when that false is themselves.
speaker2: i'm not a believer.

speaker1: oh you will. tell me, do you believe in hell? 
speaker2: starting to.
speaker1: you opened a door. he pulled you in. but the only way out -- is through me. he steps towards her.

speaker1: well look who's back. what now? 
speaker2: i need... please... please help me.
speaker1: help you with what?
speaker1: wow, are those real?
speaker1: amy doesn't react.

speaker1: okay, you're not in the mood for my light- hearted banter. what the hell, this isn't my idea of paradise either. 
speaker2: i don't understand. why aren't i dead? or am i? please...
speaker1: life, death, they're not all that different, really. you can find your death in your life. you can find your life in your death. round and round and round you go.
speaker2: please, help me.
speaker1: i am helping you.
speaker2: then explain what the is going on. why did i have a knife buried in my back? why am i seeing dead people walking around? why is there a guy with pins in his head stopping by in the middle of the night for a chat.
speaker2: why am i not dead!
speaker1: whoa. it's time to give in amy, you're just fighting it too hard. forget about the truth, forget about reality, just sit back and enjoy the ride. there's nothing you can do anyway. we're all just piece's in winter's little puzzle.
speaker2: the box.
speaker1: you're willing to do anything to find the truth.

speaker1: joey 
speaker2: joey?
speaker2: joey come on. let's get off the train. right now, you and me.
speaker2: you and me...

speaker1: looks like the party's over. 
speaker2: why did you do this to me?

speaker1: we have to go... 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i didn't have any other choice.
speaker2: what's happening to me?
speaker1: you're dying. like me.

speaker1: please. we've got to go! 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: that's for you to decide.
speaker1: you see, that's the problem right there. i'm supposed to help you. like... like winter helped me. but i don't know if i can.
speaker2: then why are you here?
speaker1: to try... because i have no other choice. no turning back now- know what i mean?
speaker2: no, i don't. i don't know one thing anymore. i just want to go home.
speaker1: then let's go home.

speaker1: i put my head through a noose and i jumped ten feet down. they cut me down, and winter breathed into me, and i was alive. and everybody was happy... and like, congratulating me... 
speaker1: and for a while, it was great. but it's like being a tightrope walker... you're walking along on this rope, and then all of a sudden, it's like you realize -- i'm walking on a rope a hundred feet up in the air. and that's when you fall.
speaker1: i tried to end it. that's when you found me.
speaker2: why are you doing this? why am i here?

speaker1: for the reward from it all. 
speaker1: but it isn't enough for somebody else to stick a knife into you. you have to come to the point where you can do it to yourself -- that's the acceptance. the final preparation before you give your soul to it. willingly.
speaker2: but why? what it is all for?
speaker1: that's the missing link. that part he keeps to himself. but he promises an eternal paradise filled with the ultimate pleasures. we just can't be afraid. and we can't have any doubts. guess i screwed up on that part.

speaker1: fear is where you go to learn. 
speaker1: sorry. i told you there's no turning back amy. only he can bring you back.

speaker1: all roads lead home. 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker2: amy don't fight it, it's only going to make things worse.
speaker3: what the happened?

speaker1: i didn't hear from you. i went over to your hotel. you were lying on the floor... covered in every kind of stuff that can come out of a human body... 
speaker2: the blood...
speaker1: okay. every other kind.
speaker2: i don't... i mean i didn't...
speaker1: you were sort of... having a psychotic episode, sweets. major mental blow-out. and frankly, it's about time. you were tied down for a day and half. listen, i'm trying to get you out of here, back to london, but with the damage to your hotel room... they're not going to be so quick to let you go.
speaker1: look, amy, you probably won't have to stay...
speaker2: hey, charles, charles... this is the best news i've had in a long time.
speaker1: well, there you go. a whole new definition of optimism.
speaker2: what about marla chen? the story?

speaker1: they found her dead in her room. she hung herself. 
speaker2: they found her. you mean the police?
speaker1: yeah. she'd been there awhile. probably did it right after she sent us the tape.
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: i don't know. does it matter?
speaker2: no, i guess not.
speaker1: but this is a good story too. call it, "my psychotic episode" -- or, wait, maybe "psychotic - episode one." or "psychotic pilot episode." you know, some play on words with episode. look, there's a lot of raw material around here. emphasis on the word "raw." maybe they'll let you use a felt-tip pen or something to take notes.
speaker3: well look who's back. how we feelin?
speaker2: trapped.
speaker3: sorry. they're for your own protection. the way you were flailing around when they brought you in -- somebody was bound to get hurt. get it. bound to get hurt.

speaker1: amy doesn't laugh. doesn't even crack a smile. 
speaker2: don't quit your day job.
speaker3: what's say we lose the charm bracelets for now? unless of course you somehow find all of this -- stimulating.
speaker2: don't drag me into your fantasies charles. please.
speaker3: i'll see about getting a camera in here...
speaker3: feel better.

speaker1: mind if i join you? 
speaker2: please. i'm drawing pictures.
speaker1: i can see that, they're lovely.
speaker2: want me to draw your picture?
speaker1: i'd like that very much.
speaker2: no peaking.
speaker1: i'm sorry, you're right.
speaker2: what do you think?

speaker1: amy's pov as we get our first good look at it. 
speaker2: i only draw what i see... amy.
speaker3: how do you know my name?

speaker1: no... this isn't happening. 
speaker1: marla?
speaker1: marla! you're alive.
speaker2: you say that like it's a good thing.
speaker2: you know he's watching us.
speaker1: who?

speaker1: winter. this is where he sends all the trouble makers. tries to show us who's boss. tries to make us believe. 
speaker2: so it is real?
speaker1: as real as you want it to be. we all have our own version of the truth, some are just more screwed up than others. but you wouldn't know that, because you still don't know the truth.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: you will. you see that's the point. all this, "deaders", "cenobites", whatever you want to call it, it's all about solving the puzzle. part of that puzzle is you. finding the secrets that are hidden within you.
speaker1: - in there. and as soon as you find that, as soon as you face it, you'll be free. once and for all. he pulls back into her chair.
speaker1: me -- i'm still looking.

speaker1: but what is it all for? 
speaker2: ultimate pleasure -- more than anyone, even those who have solved the puzzle before us, have ever known. conditions of the nerve endings the likes of which your imagination could not hope to evoke.
speaker2: ...at least that's what they say.

speaker1: me. 
speaker2: bingo baby. sorry.
speaker2: he has to be there for you amy. and he will be. like he was for all of us. that's the key. without him, you can't come back. it's you he wants. its you he needs. remember that above all.
speaker2: looks like you're running out of time.

speaker1: deaders 
speaker2: you've gone through this before amy. go through it again -- with me.
speaker2: that's it. i knew you were the one. the second i saw you, i knew you were the one.
speaker3: my skin isn't real. my eyes aren't real. my muscles aren't real. my bones, my heart, my veins and nerves, and flesh and meat... aren't real. what i see, what i hear, what i taste, what i touch, what i remember, what i think, what i feel, isn't real.

speaker1: say it with us amy. you have to say it with us. 
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: yes you can amy. you're one of us now, all you have to do is take this final step and let the pain go. and welcome a world of ultimate pleasures. an arm, bluish white, stretches out from the void trying to grab joey who ducks it's grasp.
speaker3: where are the naked chicks? the oil? the orgies? it's not what winter expected either.
speaker1: finish it amy.
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: finish it!
speaker2: i don't think so.

speaker1: i see that evil does run in the family. inter is plays it tough. but it's all an act. 
speaker1: your lineage is of a craftsman. you should have stayed in the family business. i sacrificed my mortal self for that box.
speaker2: it's mine now. it belongs to me.
speaker1: that's where you're painfully wrong. we belong to it.
speaker2: it created you, and it can destroy you. amy, finish it!
speaker1: when it is done with me -- perhaps -- but i'm afraid one's own personal is eternal, as you will soon see.
speaker1: the box is not just the map of the road -- it is the road itself.
speaker2: the ultimate experience.

speaker1: experience is a funny thing boy, it likes to test us first and teach us later. are you sure you can pass the test? are you sure you want to? 
speaker2: you can't hurt me.
speaker1: it's not the first time i've heard that.

speaker1: and it won't be the last. 
speaker1: when you attempted to challenge evil you entered into my domain. there is no way in but through me. pinhead gets in close to winter's face.
speaker1: careful what you wish for.
speaker1: it just might come true.

speaker1: this world, it obviously disappoints you all. perhaps that's why you choose to begin this journey. and as long as you so willingly accepted, allow me to finish off what he started. 
speaker1: them at all different levels.
speaker1: and as for you. you opened the box, you brought us all together. you chose wisely. i'm pleased.
speaker2: i didn't want any of this. they used me to open the box. i didn't choose to do anything.
speaker1: she's one of us now amy. now a guide to the far reaches of pleasure. to a world where suffering is taken to higher level.
speaker2: please.
speaker1: you opened the box.
speaker2: i didn't mean to. i only wanted the truth.
speaker1: and now you have it. but knowledge comes with a price -- and it's time to pay.
speaker2: what about them?

speaker1: they belong to me now. they offered themselves willingly through him to me -- and now it's time for you to do the same. 
speaker1: it won't be that easy this time. but yes, your father is with us too. and he's waiting for you.
speaker2: you're here to stop this amy. he needs your soul willingly. don't let him take you. don't go willingly.
speaker3: its over. winter is gone. you can't come back. you won't become a deader...or one of them.

speaker1: i didn't give my soul to him... 
speaker1: ...and i'm not giving it to you.
speaker2: no!

speaker1: i just talked to the police. still, nothing. she's just gone. left her hotel, left her clothes, left her money. no sign of her anywhere. 
speaker2: see no amy. hear no amy...
speaker1: just like marla chen. apartment just left empty. no trace. the police say its to early to file an official report. do you think they she with foul play?

