speaker1: yes! 
speaker1: della!
speaker2: shoot, kenneth! that's tammi's favorite doll.
speaker1: you should just swear properly and get it over with. do you think the kids don't know what you mean?
speaker1: going out again? what is it tonight? auto mechanics for dummies? the bored housewives' reading group?
speaker1: i got a new one for you.
speaker1: scene 3 page 3
speaker1: group therapy for women who always have the curse. there's a tuesday night class at the pleasant valley episcopalian.
speaker2: i'm going to the mall for wrapping paper.
speaker1: what do you do all day, della honey? cause it sure isn't keeping house. this place is an eyesore. i'm mortgaged up to the eyeballs for this?
speaker1: i mean it's not like you're at some salon fancying up your hair or nails like the other men's wives.
speaker1: the last time i saw you wearing something was our engagement party. della, you used to be hot!
speaker2: put the twins to bed by eight. give them a chocolate cookie with their milk.
speaker2: scene 3 page 4

speaker1: mommy can i get an american girl for christmas? 
speaker2: i want a raptor dinosaur, mommy.
speaker3: you better leave santa a note. it's only three days until christmas.
speaker1: where are you going, mommy?
speaker1: scene 5 page 5

speaker1: the mall. one chocolate cookie each and then daddy will read you a bedtime story. 
speaker2: daddy's stories are lame. i want you to read us a story.
speaker3: yeah mommy, the one about the pirates.
speaker2: no, the cowgirls. diamond lil and slingshot kitty.
speaker1: tomorrow night i'll read you the best bedtime story in the whole world. i promise.
speaker1: i'll check in on you both when i get back. to make sure you're sleeping.
speaker1: thank you, tammi, it's wonderful.

speaker1: i'll get right on that kenneth honey. after you stop drinking. 
speaker1: scene 16page 8

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: della, it's mary messina.
speaker1: oh, hey.
speaker2: you okay sweetie?
speaker1: sure. how are you?
speaker2: i'm well.
speaker1: how'd you get my cell number?
speaker2: i called kenneth at the house.
speaker2: scene 18page 9

speaker1: and how'd that go? did he give you an earful for disturbing his ninety ninth viewing of lethal weapon four? 
speaker2: oh della. kenneth is always charming. at least to me.
speaker1: well, with the way you flaunt your double d job at the free fun pta events that's hardly a surprise.
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: oh nothing, mary.
speaker2: you got lucky with that one. patricia ellis says he's the best looking guy in pleasant valley.
speaker1: well that wouldn't be hard. mary, do you need something? cause i gotta go.
speaker2: yes, are you going to tool school tomorrow? mary giggles at her own joke.
speaker2: scene 18page 10

speaker1: tool school?, ouch, mary. do it yourself mechanics is without a doubt the most interesting thing in my life right now. i carry my beloved toolbox in the trunk at all times. 
speaker2: i'm just joking, della. you know me. i pre-paid ten classes and only made it to two. if you are going i could use a ride. i'd hate to miss another class.
speaker1: sorry, mary, i'm skipping this week. kenneth's parents are coming to stay for christmas. you know how it is.
speaker2: oh that's too bad. maybe patricia ellis will be going.
speaker1: you check with her, mary.
speaker2: merry christmas. bless you and your family.
speaker1: you too. bah humbug.
speaker2: pardon?
speaker1: bye, mary.
speaker1: scene 18page 11

speaker1: cellular 411 connect. how may i direct your call? 
speaker2: the learning academy. spring street.
speaker1: please hold for that number.
speaker1: scene 20page 12
speaker1: press your pound key now to connect with your request.
speaker3: learning academy, this is meghan.
speaker2: hi meghan. it's della myers.
speaker3: oh hey. you calling about spanish for beginners? you know that tom cancelled 'cause of new year's.
speaker2: yes i knew.
speaker3: can you hold, i have another call?
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: pleasant valley dream homes. the lowest crime rate in the us. call 1-

speaker1: sorry della ... 
speaker2: can you leave word for mike. i'm going to miss tomorrow's mechanic's class. it's just the one time.
speaker1: everyone misses that class at least once.
speaker1: scene 20page 13

speaker1: i guess some people find it boring. 
speaker2: we'll see you the first week in january then?
speaker1: yes you will...unless i run off and become an outlaw or something.
speaker1: i have to go.
speaker2: merry christmas
speaker1: you too.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: hi della... it's cassie.
speaker1: where are you? grand central station?
speaker3: hold on, i'll take the phone outside.

speaker1: i almost rear-ended a car. cassie? 
speaker1: what's up, cassie?
speaker2: i'm over at southeast plaza. what was it we need to get for pilates?
speaker1: huh? one of those rubber balls, i think. i'm headed over there now. ran out of christmas wrapping paper. would you believe it?
speaker2: it's here tonight. everyone and their uncle is at the mall.
speaker1: aw shoot. my cell battery's dying.
speaker1: damn, i must have left the charger in the other car.
speaker1: scene 21page 15
speaker1: you want me to pick up something for you while i'm here?
speaker1: no....i'm just. i mean i'm. oh nothing.
speaker2: your phone's breaking up della. i'm not joking when i say it's packed over here.
speaker1: it can't be that bad?
speaker1: why don't we meet somewhere for a drink?
speaker2: sure, but a latte's about the best they can do in this mall.
speaker1: a latte's fine. let's meet at the fountain opposite victoria's secret.
speaker2: sounds good.
speaker1: my battery's going. i'm a block away. see you in five minutes.
speaker2: okay but i won't be able to wait very ....
speaker2: scene 21page 16

speaker1: watch where you're going! 
speaker1: scene 24page 17

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker1: do you know where i can definitely find parking?
speaker2: there's nothing close by. even the valet's backed up. you might want to try further out.
speaker2: but be willing to walk.

speaker1: yes! 
speaker1: scene 31page 19

speaker1: it's a classic revival of chanel no.5. we have a wonderful christmas special on offer at macy's. 
speaker1: scene 36page 21

speaker1: it's pure silk, the last one in our classic black label collection. would you like me to fix you a changing room? 
speaker2: no thanks. not my size.

speaker1: a latte please? 
speaker1: and a chocolate biscotti.
speaker2: bitter or milk chocolate?
speaker1: forget it, just the coffee.
speaker2: name?
speaker1: della, two l's.
speaker2: four dollars and seventy nine cents.
speaker2: scene 40page 23

speaker1: della, is that you? 
speaker2: lynn monroe!
speaker1: i knew it was you, della. i haven't seen you since college. you left to marry some handsome jock and we never heard from you again.
speaker2: something like that. do you live around here now?
speaker1: david and i just bought this divine house in pleasant valley. do you know it? great for the kids.
speaker1: it's the first time i've left the doors unlocked since i was a child growing up in the midwest. david's been promoted to vp of united motors so it's all happening for us. but enough of me. how are you?
speaker2: oh, we have two kids. twins, tammi and terri.
speaker2: scene 40page 24

speaker1: why that's fantastic. listen della, it's been great talking to you but i have to go get my hair done! david and i are going out tomorrow night for a romantic dinner. i just bought this gorgeous teddy from victoria's secret. 
speaker1: hope we bump into each other again soon, sweetie. merry christmas

speaker1: it's a pity they don't have any "to a at christmas" cards. 
speaker1: scene 41page 25

speaker1: perfect timing! 
speaker2: planned it for christmas day just to tick me off.
speaker1: thirty dollars and sixty nine cents
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: merry christmas.

speaker1: how come the ladies' bathroom is out of order on a night like this? 
speaker2: the one at the other side of the mall is open, ma'am.
speaker2: scene 43page 26

speaker1: silent night. holy night. all is calm. all is bright. 
speaker1: holy infant so tender and mild. she walks faster, almost at a dash.
speaker1: shepherds quake at the sight. glories beam from heaven afar.
speaker1: scene 43page 27

speaker1: how's about i aim it at your first? 
speaker2: what the are you playing at?
speaker3: trust the nigga, we not playin'.
speaker2: what are you? the world's first homeless united nations boy band?
speaker3: hell, yeah. we just wanna do shows and bone hoes.
speaker3: we got a song fo' yo. it's called "shut up and eat a dick".
speaker3: scene 45page 29

speaker1: and when yo done eating we gonna staple that mouth closed. 
speaker2: now, now, my little brothers.
speaker3: it gitting cold, chuckie. game's not worth the dime.
speaker4: chuckie? at least your parents have a sense of humor.
speaker2: parents? i ain't got no parents. i named myself.
speaker2: grab my parka from the back seat.
speaker2: and smile, playa. the dopes game and the game's dope.
speaker2: you got a beef with us, mrs. podunk?
speaker2: first you put yo hands on my ride! now, i don't know how you was raised but, in my world, laying your hands on someone else's is crossing their line! then, you go slipping an incendiary note up under my windscreen wipers.

speaker1: what? if you hadn't parked like an asshole, we wouldn't be arguing about it right now. 
speaker2: whoah lady!
speaker3: keep right on talking that gang a chinga. yo crimes against the click are digging yo grave deep.
speaker4: go to hell!
speaker5: we already in hell.
speaker6: any trouble here, ma'am?
speaker1: not if these delinquents move their barge so i can back up.
speaker6: how about it, boys?
speaker6: scene 45page 31

speaker1: nah. we not in the mood. 
speaker2: for jesus' sake.
speaker3: say yo prayers old man.
speaker1: these rent-a-pig companies are too lame to give their foot soldiers any ammo. liability laws and all that. tough the rent-a-cop goes for his pistol anyway.

speaker1:  
speaker1: scene 45page 32

speaker1: sleep in heavenly peace. sleep in heavenly peace. 
speaker2: she's busting a move!
speaker3: she ain't going nowhere. we got her ford blocked in, right?
speaker4: i don't know nothing.
speaker5: dar candela por el culo!
speaker3: i can just put one through her windshield, right?
speaker3: will you just die ?!
speaker3: scene 45page 33
speaker3: he raises the gun.

speaker1: chinga tu madre. she making her getaway. 
speaker2: chuckie!
speaker3: she on her cell right now calling the pigs.
speaker3: scene 47page 34
speaker3: we going down for this!
speaker4: you gone buck wild, nigga? we ain't going down for
speaker3: you ain't earned the right to call me a nigga. and that goes for all you haters.
speaker4: easy my g. easy.
speaker4: the world is our right? huey calms down.
speaker4: get in my fallen soldier.
speaker4: shove over tomas. you know i front the ride.

speaker1: no! 
speaker1: 

speaker1:  
speaker2: keep hitting on the gas and you gonna dig them wheels into a dirt grave.
speaker3: save yo talk and get out and push.
speaker2: hell, no.
speaker4: 
speaker4: scene 77page 41
speaker4: what's aggravating you now?
speaker4: our new sneakers are stuck up in the dirt like they was last years.
speaker3: soon as we taken care o' mrs. podunk you and the spanish dancer can hit the next mall. but first you fakers best haul this rider out of the filth.
speaker5: stupid car got nowhere else to go. there's nothing but trees up ahead.
speaker2: screw the car, chuckie. case you forgot we got a witness on the loose! i ain't want to end up in the clink as some chimp's prison pillow.
speaker3: trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars.
speaker2: yo talk a real mob threat, chuckie. but what if she gone already?
speaker3: she ain't gone.
speaker3: scene 77page 42

speaker1: won't be long before we find her now. this baby could spot a needle in a haystack! 
speaker2: we caught up in this bitch's life like a soap opera. we could just bail, blast out of town like we was never here.
speaker1: this boy loves weed so much he tried to marry juana.
speaker2: ain't no one cares about the rent-a- pig. he just collateral damage to the peeps at the mall.
speaker1: listen up skippy: she the only

speaker1: but if we hit the road now we'll be five hundred miles away before they find him....we could be drinking cold beer and swimmin' in the atlantic....just like you promised. 
speaker2: we gotta take care of her. when she gone. the problem gone. right? we'll head off then, huey, just like i said.
speaker1: we ain't gonna make it, are we chuckie? i ain't never gonna see it. it's over for that, isn't it chuckie? just say it.
speaker1: she was just some stupid housewife mouthin' off.
speaker2: get real huey! and shut the up about the stupid ocean.
speaker2: i ever break a promise to you? i ever let you down?
speaker1: no chuckie, you ain't.

speaker1: there's her ford. 
speaker1: there's broken glass everywhere.
speaker2: someone call her mama tell her to lay out her black dress.
speaker3: is she dead already?
speaker1: musta gone been thrown through the windshield.
speaker4: she ain't dead. look! her footprints are all around.

speaker1: they're searching the house next door. 
speaker2: where'd little red riding hood git to?
speaker3: she ain't leaving any bread crumbs that's for sure.
speaker4: when a hungry, imma wolf.

speaker1: peek a boo! 
speaker2: yo left without yo goodbye kiss.
speaker2: scene 96page 50

speaker1: you a window shopper little brother. you ain't never even done the old in and out before. waves of pain spasm through della's shoulder. 
speaker2: imma just a young playa tryin' to put my bid in.
speaker3: don't worry, when we done wit you we send yo back in yo trunk to mr. podunk.
speaker3: don't want to play nice? puta!
speaker3: scene 96page 51

speaker1: back off five minutes, my ghetto brother. 
speaker1: what's with the man size crast?
speaker1: you running with the family jewels?
speaker1: you rob a bank this morning, della?
speaker1: least yo learned something tonight della honey?
speaker2: yeah, like how to quit mouthing if you wanna avoid drama.
speaker1: you must be wondering how we come to know your name.
speaker1: you screwed up della myers. left your purse in the ford.
speaker1: what a photo!
speaker1: scene 96page 52
speaker1: guess you won't be needing it no more.
speaker1: so what's in the box? della remains mute, looks away from the beam.
speaker3: yo think she carrying the big notes, maybe some ice?
speaker1: nah, it ain't about to rain diamonds, huey. but maybe she cashed in her life savings. planned to take off, start a new life.
speaker1: that right della?
speaker4: you got enough scratch in there to grease us up with?
speaker1: open it. they crowd closer toward her.
speaker1: scene 96page 53

speaker1: okay! i'll open it. della's brain races. her hands move slowly. 
speaker2: she ain't got nuthin'. let's just take that and git going. he moves towards her.
speaker2: scene 96page 54

speaker1: maricon! 
speaker2: what the niggaz?
speaker3: shut up.
speaker2: you hurt?

speaker1: and don't be using the n word. you ain't representing. got it. that right huey? huey. get up huey. huey 
speaker2: hijo de maria el virgene.
speaker3: what?
speaker3: scene 96page 55

speaker1: my little brother. tomas approaches. 
speaker2: mamacita! madre de dios!
speaker1: you tread on my boy's face. you

speaker1: i didn't kill him. i didn't kill no one. 
speaker1: she did it. she killed him.
speaker1: i'm gonna cross that out.

speaker1: what the you doing? 
speaker1: i asked you what your deal is, sand dancer?
speaker2: it's a tribute. a gesture.
speaker1: a what?
speaker1: scene 101page 60
speaker1: vinh stares down at the dirt at his feet.
speaker1: your brain even smaller than 'em slits for eyes?
speaker1: keep on banging out that ghetto and you'll alert every cop in podunk county.
speaker2: it's for huey. our dead homie.
speaker1: you checked out, right?
speaker2: he loved that track.
speaker1: get a grip, skippy.
speaker1: huey's dead. and ain't no requiem gonna resurrect his ass. he down under the ground now with the real men of respect.
speaker3: i didn't mean it. i didn't do it. i didn't mean to kill him.
speaker3: scene 101page 61
speaker3: this breaks the moment. chuckie snaps back.
speaker1: well he dead. that's it for him. over. but we still here. hell, yeah. payback's gonna be a real for a real
speaker2: she probably gone by now.
speaker1: you best hope not, genius. she gone, we gone.

speaker1: i can smell her bulgari. 
speaker2: she was right here. must a saw your tribute and everything.
speaker2: scene 102page 63
speaker2: vinh glares at chuckie. chuckie grins at tomas.
speaker2: bulgari? she looks more like she rocks that number five
speaker1: it bulgari, dude. my dad's bathes in it.

speaker1: there more of her footprints. tomas and vinh just stand like zombies. 
speaker1: what you waiting on? jackie chan?

speaker1: what now, cabron? 
speaker2: fell in a frozen stream.
speaker2: scene 103page 64

speaker1: zipperhead! 
speaker2: kon'aro kusotare.
speaker1: you know we don't speak the chinky.
speaker2: what's your game, chuckie? we left stumbling around in the dark while you hog the flashlight.
speaker1: i stole it. i get to use it. that's how it works. that right tomas?
speaker3: right on, dog.
speaker2: what if i steal it from you?
speaker1: there you go, bro.
speaker1: april fool. naw, wait a minute, it ain't april. must be christmas fool.
speaker1: her footprints disappear at the big rock.
speaker1: scene 103page 65

speaker1: head on up and search the slope. i'll guide your way with the flashlight. 
speaker2: we gonna put yo on ice,
speaker2: you going home in a casket tonight.

speaker1: huey? 
speaker1: is that you, homie?
speaker1: i saw huey, there in the brush.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i saw him.
speaker2: sure you did, bro.
speaker2: scene 104page 67

speaker1: awwwrgh! 
speaker2: unnh! unnh! unnh!
speaker2: scene 105page 69
speaker2: unnh!

speaker1: curb the squealing. you a gangsta or a boy scout? 
speaker2: tomas's gone, chuckie. i can feel it.
speaker1: tomas is one hard son of a he got her strung up from a tree by now and you know it.
speaker1: scene 105page 70

speaker1: there's something over here. 
speaker1: it looks like a body.
speaker2: it's a big old tree trunk, you paranoid gook.
speaker1: tomas.....iyah!
speaker1: scene 105page 71

speaker1: she gonna kill you and me next. we're all gonna die here. knows what other tools she got in that box. 
speaker2: it was a stupid accident killed huey. you know that. and tomas.... chuckie chokes up despite himself.
speaker2: i promise you this.
speaker2: this baby's gonna cancel her christmas.
speaker1: ain't no gun can kill a ghost gone bad.
speaker1: scene 105page 72

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker1: i'm so sorry!
speaker1: where are you, god?
speaker1: scene 106page 73
speaker1: please, i just want to see my babies again.

speaker1: aaaarrhh. 
speaker1: scene 106page 75

speaker1: i don't feel good, chuckie. you think i got the hypothermia? 
speaker2: nah, yo got the yellow fever.
speaker1: i'm telling you, it ain't natural how she gets away every time.
speaker2: she got to be hiding up on the slope? you head up first and i'll follow with the flashlight.

speaker1: i ain't going up there without the gun. end of story. 
speaker2: never would've pegged you as a pussy, vinh. even when huey and tomas called it, i always defended your ass.
speaker1: ain't no one never said i was a pussy.
speaker2: she a skinny too. can't be weighing in at more than one twenty.
speaker2: scene 109page 77

speaker1: tomas an huey never called me a pussy. 
speaker2: i ain't speaking ill o' the dead.
speaker1: you already did.
speaker2: anyways, when you ever shot a gun? probably miss and shoot yourself in the foot.

speaker1: that's the spirit gangsta. holler if you see her and i'll shoot. 
speaker2: faito!
speaker2: scene 110page 78

speaker1: della? 
speaker1: delllaaa?

speaker1: there's only you and me, now. 
speaker1: scene 111page 81
speaker1: i saw a little trail of your blood back there. you must be hurt.
speaker1: i'm hurting too. i think you busted up my collarbone.
speaker1: i know you can hear me, della.
speaker2: i can smell your blood, your sweat. i know you're close.
speaker1: after what went down tonight, we got a special bond. della listens, transfixed.
speaker1: may as well come out now, della. she doesn't move.
speaker1: i'll save one for you, for when you decide to come out. he inhales again, exhales.
speaker1: you're one tough
speaker1: scene 111page 82
speaker1: the tone of his voice begins to change.
speaker1: and that's hot, yeah.
speaker1: and they're really cute.
speaker1: twins huh? terri and tammi.
speaker1: i bet you could use that cigarette now della honey? a woman's purse can tell her whole life story!
speaker1: now i know where they are living, i'm thinking i may stop by after and say hello.
speaker1: they wouldn't know a thing about what happened to mommy while she was out, would they, della?
speaker1: scene 111page 83

speaker1: chuckie waltzes towards her hiding place. 
speaker2: i figured that would help you find your voice!
speaker2: don't worry. i would never touch them. it's wrong to hurt kids! right, della?
speaker2: the game's over.
speaker2: you won!
speaker2: you took him from me...he was only seventeen years old. and all he ever wanted to do was see the ocean. and he never saw it. no, he never got to go.
speaker2: they're all gone now.
speaker2: scene 111page 84
speaker2: you know the movie "clockwork orange"?
speaker2: well, they were my droogies, della.
speaker2: chances are they would of turned on me anyway, just like in the movie.
speaker2: none of them was real outlaw. no, not in the way you are. you're the real deal, lady.
speaker2: i was already thinking about cutting some of em loose, getting a new style posse together.
speaker2: how's about it, you and me?
speaker3: give me a break.
speaker2: monday night mechanics. tuesday pilates. wednesday spanish. thursday, i wish....
speaker2: scene 111page 85
speaker2: face it, della. you ain't no suburban housewife.
speaker2: so you bought into the big lie, even tried to live it. who could blame you? husband, kids, security, every woman's dream, but not yours, della. you know there ain't no such thing as security.
speaker2: but i'm betting you didn't really know who you were until tonight. i reckon i know what you've been dreaming about though, what you've been aching for, through all these lonely, wasted years. blasting out of podunk without never looking back. feeling the wind in your hair and the dirt of life between your fingers. doing all the things they told you you ain't supposed to do. taking what you want from life. and wasting anyone who stands in your way. right, della?
speaker2: don't say you ain't thought about it. if it's in your blood, it's in your blood for all time.
speaker2: you had yourself fooled, della.
speaker2: lady, you took my whole crew out with nothing but a bunch of them tools.
speaker2: scene 111page 86
speaker2: you can't go back to your old life. no way. it's all over for that. kaboom.
speaker2: hooking up with me's about the best chance you got.
speaker2: i bet you're on the outs with your old man.
speaker2: when we pick up your kids, we can waste him if you like.
speaker2: i can do it. or you can if you're ready.
speaker3: i want...
speaker2: leave the tools.
speaker3: i already did.
speaker3: scene 111page 87

speaker1: of a night, huh? 
speaker2: i was only going to the mall for some christmas wrapping paper.
speaker1: happens.
speaker2: what now?
speaker1: i wanted to look you in the eye before i kill you.
speaker2: that's what i figured.
speaker2: huey there, going to help?
speaker2: scene 111page 88
speaker2: chuckie is puzzled.
speaker1: huey? huey's ....

speaker1: you're even better than i thought. 
speaker1: scene 111page 89
speaker1: and she has the gun.

speaker1: oh my. 
speaker1: scene 125page 93

speaker1: where the have you been? 
speaker1: scene 132page 95

speaker1: i said.... 
speaker1: della?
speaker1: della honey are you all right?
speaker2: please don't call me that. don't ever call me that again.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i just wanted to get home to my babies.
speaker1: what happened to you?
speaker1: was there an accident?
speaker1: scene 132page 96

speaker1: are you hurt? 
speaker2: are they okay?

speaker1: sound asleep, huh? 
speaker1: so. what'd you bring me from the mall?
speaker1: scene 136page 97

