speaker1: well brad, i guess we made it huh! 
speaker2: well i don't think there was any doubt about that - you and betty have been almost inseparable ever since you sat in on dr scott's refresher lectures.
speaker1: tell you the truth brad, she was the only reason i came in the first place. science was never one of my favourite subjects but i sure with dr scott could have made it today.
speaker2: yes, janet and i are both fond of him. we drove over to see him last vacation. it's a shame his new job took him away from denton. betty, the bride, throws the bouquet. janet catches it. she squeals with delight.
speaker1: hey fella. it looks like it could be your turn next.
speaker2: who knows...ha ha.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: everyone knows betty's a wonderful little cook.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: and ralph himself will be in line for promotion in a year or so.
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: yes brad. 
speaker2: i've got something to say.
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: i really loved the skilful way you beat the other girls to the bride's bouquet.
speaker1: oh brad.
speaker2: the river was deep but i swam it. family janet.
speaker2: the future is ours so let's plan it.
speaker3: janet.
speaker2: so please don't tell me to can it.
speaker3: janet.
speaker2: i've one thing to say and that's dammit, janet. i love you. the road was long but i ran it. family janet. brad there's a fire in my heart and you fan it. family janet.
speaker2: if there's one fool for you then i am it. family janet. brad i've one thing to say and that's, dammit, janet.
speaker2: i love you.
speaker2: here's a ring to prove that i'm not joker.
speaker2: there's three ways that love can grow. that's good bad or mediocre.
speaker2: oh - j - a - n - e - t i love you so.
speaker4: "wedding song" pt. 2
speaker1: oh!......it's nicer than betty munroe had magenta oh brad.
speaker1: now we're engaged and i'm so glad.
speaker5: oh brad.
speaker1: that you met mom and you know dad.
speaker6: oh brad. janet i've one thing to say and that's, brad i'm mad, for you too. brad and janet start to walk d.s., arm in arm.
speaker2: oh dammit. janet i'm mad.....
speaker2: oh janet
speaker1: for you. brad i love you too-oo-oo.
speaker7: there's one thing left to do-ah-ooh
speaker2: and that's go see the man who began it family janet.
speaker2: when we met in his science exam it -
speaker3: janet.
speaker2: made me give you the eye and then panic,
speaker3: janet family lower coffin onto floor.
speaker2: i've got one thing to say, and that's dammit, janet. i love you. janet runs to brad and he hugs her. brad dammit, janet.
speaker1: oh brad, i'm mad.
speaker2: dammit, janet.
speaker8: i love you. brad and janet kiss.

speaker1: i would like if i may to take you on a strange journey. 
speaker1: it seemed a fairly ordinary night when brad majors and his fiancee janet weiss left denton that late november evening to visit dr everett scott, ex. tutor and now friend of both of them. it's true there were dark storm clouds, heavy, black and pendulous, toward which they were driving. it's true also that the spare tyre they were carrying was badly in need of some air. but they being normal kids and on a night out, well they were not going to let a storm spoil the events of their evening. on a night out. he closes the book marking the place.
speaker1: it was a night out they were going to remember for a very long time.

speaker1: gosh. that's the third motorcyclist that's passed us. they certainly take their lives in their hands. what with the weather and all. 
speaker2: yes, janet. life's pretty cheap to that type. janet takes another stick of gum. offers brad some. he declines.
speaker1: what's the matter brad, darling?
speaker2: i think we took the wrong fork a few miles back.
speaker1: oh dear! but then where did the motorcyclists come from?
speaker2: hmmm ... well, i guess we will have to turn back.

speaker1: what was that bang? 
speaker2: we must have a blow-out.
speaker1: oh...

speaker1: you'd better sit here and keep warm while i go for help. 
speaker2: but where will you go? we're in the middle of nowhere.
speaker1: didn't we pass a castle back down the road a few miles? maybe they have a telephone i might use.
speaker2: i'm coming with you.
speaker1: there's no point both of us getting wet.
speaker2: i'm coming with you. besides, darling, the owner of the phone might be a beautiful woman and you may never come back. brad laughs. a thunderclap.

speaker1: in the velvet darkness of the blackest night burning bright. 
speaker1: there's a guiding star
speaker2: there's a light the castle looms in the distance.
speaker3: over at the frankenstein place.
speaker4: there's a light.
speaker3: burning in the fireplace.
speaker1: there's a light, a light in the darkness of everybody's life
speaker4: i can see the flag fly i can see the rain just the same there has got to be something better here for you and me. lighting strikes.
speaker2: there's a light.
speaker3: burning in the fireplace.
speaker4: there's a light.

speaker1: brad and janet start moving down the driveway. 
speaker2: there's a light.

speaker1: shadow turns in the window. 
speaker2: over at the frankenstein place.

speaker1: the shadow slowly covers the whole window. 
speaker2: burning in the fireplace.

speaker1: there's a light, a light. 
speaker2: in the darkness of everybody's life.

speaker1: oh, brad. let's go back. i'm cold and i'm frightened. 
speaker2: just a moment, janet. they may have a telephone.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: uh - oh - hi! my name is brad majors. and this is my fiancee, janet weiss. i - ah - wondered if you could help us. our car has broken down about two miles up the road. do you have a phone we might use?
speaker3: you're wet.
speaker1: yes, the rain has been very heavy.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: i think you had better both come inside. 
speaker2: you're too kind.

speaker1: oh brad, i'm frightened. what kind of place is this? 
speaker2: oh, it's probably some kind of hunting lodge for rich weirdos.

speaker1: this way. 
speaker2: are you - giving a party?
speaker1: no. you've arrived on a rather special night. it's one of the master's affairs.
speaker2: oh, lucky him.
speaker3: he's lucky.
speaker3: you're lucky, i'm lucky, we're all lucky.

speaker1: it's astounding time is fleeting madness takes its toll but listen closely not for very much longer i've got to keep control. magenta gives riff raff a strange signal. 
speaker1: i remember doing the time warp.
speaker1: drinking those moments when the blackness would hit me. magenta half closes her eyes in pleasure.
speaker1: and the void would be calling.

speaker1: let's do the time warp again. janet falls into brad's arms. riff raff is ecstatic. 
speaker1: let's do the time warp again.

speaker1: the guests leap to the left in one giant step. 
speaker2: and a step to the right - right - right - right - right.

speaker1: narrator points to next step on the chart. 
speaker2: with your hands on your hips.

speaker1: all guests have hands on hips. 
speaker2: you bring your knees in tight. but it's the pelvic thrust.
speaker2: let's do the time warp again.

speaker1: it's so dreamy oh, fantasy free me so you can't see me no not at all. brad and janet look at each other in alarm. in another dimension. with voyeuristic intention. brad blushes. well secluded i see all with a bit of a mind flip you're into the time slip nothing will ever seem the same. they are back at the balcony. you're spaced out on sensation. they are at the edge of the balcony. like you're under sedation. they force brad and janet into the ballroom proper. 
speaker2: let's do the time warp again.
speaker2: let's do the time warp again.

speaker1: let's do the time warp again. 
speaker1: let's do the time warp again.

speaker1: the narrator dancing on the desk. 
speaker2: with your hands on your hips.

speaker1: you bring your knees in tight. 
speaker2: but it's the pelvic thrust. low travelling shot between their legs. that really drives you insane. let's do the time warp again. everyone reverses direction. let's do the time warp again.

speaker1: oh....say something. 
speaker2: say! do any of you guys know the madison? no one laughs. guests turn nasty.

speaker1: brad, please lets get out of here. 
speaker2: for sake keep a grip on yourself janet.
speaker1: but it seems so unhealthy here.
speaker2: it's just a..a party janet.
speaker1: well i want to leave.
speaker2: we can't go anywhere until i get to a phone.
speaker1: then ask the butler - or someone.
speaker2: let's wait awhile janet. we don't want to interfere with their celebrations.
speaker1: this isn't the junior chamber of commerce brad.
speaker2: they're probably foreigners with ways different from our own. - they may do some more folk dancing.
speaker1: brad - i'm cold, i'm wet, and plain scared.
speaker2: i'm here, there's nothing to worry about. guests rise, staring mesmerised at the lift.

speaker1: don't get strung out by the way that i look. 
speaker1: don't judge a book by its cover i'm not much of a man by the light of day but by night i'm one of a lover. janet gives a silent scream.
speaker1: i'm just a sweet transvestite from transexual transylvania.
speaker2: i'm glad we caught you at home ah - could we use your phone we're both in a bit of a hurry.
speaker3: right!
speaker2: we'll just say where we are then go back to the car we don't want to be any worry.
speaker1: you got caught with a flat well how about that well babies don't you panic by the light of the night it'll seem alright i'll get you a satanic mechanic.
speaker1: i'm just a sweet transvestite from transexual transylvania.
speaker1: why dont'cha stay for the night
speaker4: "night" or maybe a bite
speaker4: "bite" i could show you my favourite obsession i've been making a man with blonde hair and a tan and he's good for relieving my tension.
speaker1: i'm just a sweet transvestite from transexual transylvania. frank storms down the ballroom to the lift.
speaker5: "sweet transvestite"
speaker1: from transexual transylvania.
speaker5: "transylvania"

speaker1: on the last chord the lift has disappeared. the guests applaud ecstatically. 
speaker2: slowly, slowly. it's too nice a job to rush.

speaker1: oh brad. 
speaker2: it's alright janet, we'll play along for now and pull out the aces when the time is right.
speaker2: ah, hi. my name is brad majors and this is my fiancee, janet weiss. you are ...
speaker3: you are very lucky to be invited up to frank's laboratory. some people would give their right arm for the privilege.
speaker2: people like you maybe
speaker3: i've seen it.
speaker1: it he - frank - is he your husband?
speaker4: the master is not yet married. nor do i think he ever will be. we are simply his servants.
speaker1: oh. the lift grinds to a halt.

speaker1: magenta, columbia, go and assist riff raff. 
speaker1: i will entertain...ah...
speaker2: i'm brad majors and this is my fiancee, janet vice.
speaker3: weiss.
speaker2: weiss.
speaker1: how forceful you are brad. such a perfect specimen of manhood. so dominant. magenta and columbia laugh.
speaker3: well, yes i am.
speaker1: do you have any tattoos brad.
speaker2: certainly not!
speaker1: oh well. how about you.
speaker4: everything is in readiness, master. we merely await your word.
speaker1: tonight...one, one, one. can you hear me at the back? tonight, my unconventional conventionists.
speaker1: tonight you are to witness a breakthrough in biochemical research.
speaker1: and paradise is to be mine.
speaker1: it was strange the way it happened. one of those quirks of fate really. one of those moments when you seem irredeemably lost: you panic; you're trapped; your back's against the wall. there's no way out, and then suddenly, you get a break. all the pieces seem to fit into place. what a sucker you'r been. what a fool. the answer was there all the time. it took a small accident to make it happen. an accident!
speaker1: that's how i discovered the secret. that elusive ingredient, that spark that is the breath of life. guests applaud. frank you see, brad and janet, you are fortunate. for tonight is the night that my beautiful creature is destined to be born.

speaker1: throw open the switches on the sonic oscillator. 
speaker1: and step up the reactor power input three more points.
speaker2: brad...
speaker3: it's alright janet.

speaker1: the sword of damocles is hanging over my head. 
speaker1: and i've got the feeling someone's going to be cutting the thread. oh, woe is me. my life is a misery. oh, can't you see that i'm at the start of a pretty big downer....
speaker1: i woke up this morning with a start when i fell out of bed. guests that ain't no crime.
speaker1: and left from my dreaming was a feeling of un-nameable dread.
speaker2: that ain't no crime
speaker1: my high is low. i'm dressed up with no place to go. and all i know is i'm at the start of a pretty big downer.
speaker1: oh, no no, no no.
speaker2: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker1: no no no, no no.
speaker2: sha la la la that ain't no crime - that ain't no crime. rocky is now unbandaged. he strikes a pose.
speaker3: narrator reading from book.
speaker4: rocky needed peace of mind. he didn't know he was doing just fine. he was the product of another time. and as for feeling down - well that's not a crime.

speaker1: that ain't no crime. rocky and i've got the feeling someone's going to be cutting the thread. 
speaker1: that ain't no crime. rocky oh, woe is me - my life is a mystery. oh can't you see that i'm at the start of a pretty big downer.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker2: oh no no no no.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker2: no no no no.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker2: no no no no.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime.
speaker2: no no no no.
speaker1: sha la la la that ain't no crime - that ain't no crime.

speaker1: well. that's no way to behave on your first day out. rocky looks hurt. but as you're such an exceptional beauty i'm prepared to forgive. 
speaker1: yes. magenta a triumph of your vill.
speaker1: yes. columbia he's o.k.
speaker1: o.k? i think we can do a little better than that.
speaker2: well. i don't like men with...er, with too many, muscles.
speaker1: i didn't make him for you
speaker3: song: charles atlas
speaker1: a weakling weighing ninety eight pounds will get sand in his face when kicked to the ground. and soon in the gym with a determined chin the sweat from his pores as he works for his ca-ha-hause magenta and riff raff now bring the weights.
speaker1: will make him glisten - thank you - and gleam. and with massage and just a little bit of ste-he-he-he-hem... he'll be pink.
speaker1: he'll be a strong man - oh honey -
speaker1: he'll eat nutritious high protein and swallow raw eggs. try to build up his shoulders, his chest, arms and legs. such an effort - if he only knew of my plan.
speaker1: he'll do press-ups and chin-ups, do the snatch, clean and jerk. frank crosses to janet and brad he thinks dynamic tension must be hard work. such strenuous living i just don't understand.

speaker1: eddie! 
speaker2: stay cool baby.
speaker3: who's eddie?
speaker4: the delivery boy.
speaker5: his delivery wasn't good enough though. rocky looks terrified. janet has fainted yet again.

speaker1: whatever happened to saturday night when you dressed up sharp and you felt alright it don't seem the same since cosmic light came into my life and i thought i was divine. columbia leaps on to the pillion seat. i used to go for a ride with a chick who'd go and listen to the music on the radio. the motorcyclists guests remember only too well. a saxophone was blowing on a rock and roll show and we climbed in the back and we really had a good time 
speaker2: hot patootie bless my soul i really love that rock and roll
speaker1: my head used to swim from the perfume i smelled. my hands kind of fumbled with her white plastic belt. i'd taster her baby pink lipstick, and that's when i'd melt. and she'd whisper in my ear, tonight she really was mine. get back in front and put some hair oil on. buddy holly was singing his very last song. with your arms around your girl you tried to - ah - sing along it felt pretty good, whoo. really had a good ti-i-ime.
speaker2: hot patootie bless my soul. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie bless my soul. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie bless my soul. you know i love that rock and roll. hot patootie bless my soul. i really love that rock and roll. 4 bars instrumental
speaker3: hot patootie hot patootie - bless my soul. bless my so-o-oul. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie bless my soul. i love that rock and roll. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie... bless my soul. i love that rock and roll. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie... bless my soul. bless my so-o-oul. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie.. bless my soul. i really love that rock and roll. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie... bless my soul. bless my so-o-ooouul. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie bless my soul. i love that rock and roll. i really love that rock and roll. hot patootie hot patootie bless my soul. i love-a-love-a-love-a i really love that rock and roll.

speaker1: there are some people who say that life is an illusion, and that reality is simply a figment of our imaginations! if this is so, then brad and janet are quite safe. however, the sudden departure of their host and his creation had left them feeling both apprehensive and uneasy. a feeling which grew as the other guests 'departed' and 'they' were shown to their separate rooms. 
speaker2: janet looks lost.

speaker1: brad looks lost. 
speaker2: riff raff and magenta by the monitor. they switch from channel to channel. we see brad looking at the tv monitor. and janet sitting on the end of the bed.

speaker1: who is it? who's there? 
speaker2: it's only me, janet.
speaker1: oh, brad, come in, darling.
speaker1: oh brad - mmmm - oh yes, my darling - what if...
speaker3: it's alright janet. everything's going to be alright.
speaker1: oh, i hope so my darling. but let me switch on the light.
speaker3: no, don't do that.
speaker1: oh don't be so shy.

speaker1: i'm afraid so, janet. but isn't it nice? 
speaker2: you beast, you monster, what have you done with brad?
speaker1: nothing. why, do you think i should?
speaker2: you tricked me - i wouldn't have - i've never - never
speaker1: i know. but it wasn't all bad was it?
speaker2: oh - oh - no - stop - i mean help. i - brad - oh. brad.
speaker1: ssssh. brad's probably asleep by now. do you want him to see you like this?
speaker2: like this - like how? it's your fault. you're to blame. i was saving myself.
speaker1: well, i'm sure you're not spent yet.

speaker1: silhouette of frank and janet making love. 
speaker2: promise you won't tell brad.
speaker3: cross my heart and hope to die.

speaker1: a knock at the door. brad opens it cautiously. 
speaker2: oh brad, it's no good here. it will destroy us.
speaker3: don't worry janet, we'll be away from here in the morning. hmmmm, you smell so good.
speaker4: oh brad. oh no. not till after the wedding, darling.
speaker3: alright, janet. i understand.
speaker4: maybe we could try it this way.
speaker3: janet! oh! yes it's alright. janet.
speaker4: i hope so my darling. brad reaches out to the light. no, don't put on the l...
speaker3: you!
speaker5: i'm afraid so, brad. but wasn't it nice? brad grabs frank around the throat.
speaker3: why you - what have you done with janet?
speaker5: nothing. why do you think i should?
speaker3: you tricked me. i wouldn't have - i've never - never.
speaker5: i know, but it wasn't all bad was it? i think you found it quite pleasurable. oh so soft. so sensual.
speaker3: ahhh - no - stop - i mean janet. janet.
speaker5: shush. janet's probably asleep by now.
speaker3: like this. like how? it's your fault - you're to blame. i thought it was the real thing.
speaker5: oh come on, brad, admit it. it was enjoyable, wasn't it? there's no crime in giving yourself over to pleasure. frank oh brad, you have wasted so much time
speaker3: you promise you won't tell?
speaker5: on my mother's grave.

speaker1: master, rocky has broken his chains and vanished. the new playmate is loose and in the castle ground. magenta has just released the dogs. 
speaker2: frank is getting carried away.
speaker3: i'm coming.

speaker1: once in a while she don't want to call you speaking on the telephone once in your life she won't want to know you you look around the one you've found she is gone. 
speaker2: janet is sitting on the end of the bed.
speaker3: i'm engaged to brad just the same as betty monroe was to ralph hapschatt. but frank's kisses overwhelmed me with an ecstacy i've never dreamt of before.

speaker1: and that's all the time that it takes for a heart to turn to stone the sweeter the wine the harder to make the break you hear something about someone you'd thought you'd known. 
speaker2: janet is at the door.
speaker3: i could see brad's face before me and my mind screamed no! but my lips were hungry - too hungry.

speaker1: yes. there you see it's instinctive. this room is your womb. you returned here for one thing - security. 
speaker1: oh brad! what have they done with him?

speaker1: ahhh! rocky smiles helplessly. 
speaker1: oh brad. how could you? oh, but you're hurt. did they do this to you?
speaker1: here, lie down. i'll dress your wounds. rocky smiles at janet.

speaker1: columbia and magenta are watching the monitor. 
speaker2: tell us about it, janet.

speaker1: rocky is lying on the operating table. 
speaker2: i was feeling done in couldn't win i'd only ever kissed before

speaker1: columbia and magenta. 
speaker2: you mean she only ever kissed?

speaker1: i thought there's no use getting into heavy petting. she rips off another piece of her petticoat. it only leads to trouble and seat wetting. 
speaker1: now all i want to know is how to go i've tasted blood and i want more i'll put up no resistance i want to stay the distance i've got an itch to scratch and i need assistance.
speaker1: touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. i wanna be dirty. thrill me, chill me, fulfil me. creature of the night. then if anything grows while you pose, i'll oil you up and rub you down
speaker2: down, down down.
speaker1: and that's just one small fraction of the main attraction you need a friendly hand. oh, and i need action. touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me. i wanna be dirty. thrill me, chil me, fulfil me.

speaker1: touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me. 
speaker2: i wanna be dirty.
speaker1: thrill me, chill me, fulfil me.
speaker2: creature of the night.

speaker1: oh, touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. i wanna be dirty. thrill me chill me, fulfil me - oh - creature of the night. creature of the ni-i-ight. 
speaker2: creature of the night.

speaker1: creature of the night. oh. 
speaker2: columbia and magenta's reactions.

speaker1: aaaargh! mercy. 
speaker2: how did it happen? i understood you were to be watching.
speaker1: i was only away for a minute master.
speaker2: well, see if you can find him on the monitor.

speaker1: great scott - scotty - dr everett scott. 
speaker2: you know this earth - this person.
speaker1: i most certainly do. he happens to be an old friend of mine.
speaker3: i see. so this wasn't simply a chance meeting. you came here with a purpose.
speaker1: i told you, my car broke down.

speaker1: frank looks brad hard in the eye. 
speaker2: i was telling the truth.
speaker3: i know what you told me, brad. but this dr everett scott. his name is not unknown to me.
speaker2: he was a science teacher at denton high.
speaker3: and now he works for your government, doesn't he, brad? he's attached to the bureau of investigation of that which you call u.f.o's. isn't he, brad?
speaker2: he might be. i don't know.
speaker3: hmmmm. he'll be in the zen room.

speaker1: brad is amazed. 
speaker2: dr. scott!
speaker3: brad! what are you doing here? frank releases the electro magnet.
speaker4: don't play games, dr scott. you know very well what brad majors's doing here. it was part of your plan was it not that he, and his female, should check the layout for you. well, unfortunately for you all there's to be a change of plans. i'm sure you're adaptable, dr scott. i know brad is.
speaker3: i can assure you that brad's presence comes as a complete surprise to me.
speaker2: eddie? i've seen him. he's...
speaker4: eddie? what do you know of eddie, dr scott?
speaker3: i happen to know a great deal about a lot of things. you see eddie happens to be my nephew.
speaker2: dr scott.
speaker3: janet!
speaker5: dr scott!
speaker2: janet!
speaker4: rocky!
speaker4: listen! i made you, and i can break you just as easily.
speaker4: that's better.
speaker6: master, dinner is prepared.
speaker4: excellent. doctor scott you can sample the speciality of the house - roast loin of pork.
speaker4: under the circumstances, formal dress is to be optional.

speaker1: a toast to absent friends. 
speaker2: absent friends.
speaker3: we came here to discuss eddie.
speaker4: eddie! frank it's a rather tender subject.... another slice anyone. everybody looks at their food carefully.
speaker4: excuse me.
speaker5: dr. scott!
speaker1: go on, dr. scott - or should i say doctor von scott.
speaker6: what exactly are you implying?
speaker3: that's alright brad.
speaker6: but doctor scott...

speaker1: he left home the day she died. from the day she was gone all he wanted 
speaker1: was rock and roll,
speaker2: when eddie said he didn't like his teddy you knew he was a no good kid. but when he threatened your life with a switch blade knife
speaker3: what a guy
speaker4: makes you cry
speaker1: und i did.

speaker1: making him warn, me, in a note dr. scott produces the note. 
speaker2: what's it say, what's it say?

speaker1: when eddie said he didn't like his teddy you knew he was a no good kid. 
speaker2: und when he threatened your life with a switch blade knife
speaker3: what guy
speaker4: makes you cry
speaker2: und i did.
speaker1: eddie!

speaker1: when eddie said he didn't like his teddy you knew he was a no good kid. but when he threatened your life with a switch blade knife 
speaker2: what a guy
speaker1: woe woe woe
speaker3: makes you cry
speaker1: hey hey hey
speaker4: und i did

speaker1: oh rocky, how could you! janet runs out, frank in pursuit. rocky smiles wanly. 
speaker1: i'll tell you once, won't tell you twice you'd better wise up janet weiss. y'apple pie don't taste too nice you'd better wise up janet weiss.

speaker1: janet runs down corridor - frank following her. 
speaker2: i've laid the seed
speaker2: when we made it did ya hear a bell ring? the door opens - they fall through.

speaker1: y'got a block, take my advice. you'd better wise up, janet weiss. 
speaker1: the transducer will seduce yah.
speaker2: my feet - i can' move my feet.
speaker3: my wheels - my i can't move my wheels.
speaker4: it's as if we were glued to the spot.
speaker1: you are - so quake with fear, you tiny fools.
speaker2: we're trapped. frank it's something you'll get used to. a mental mind can be nice.
speaker2: oh! frank climbs up the ladder beside the tank.
speaker3: you won't find earth people quite the easy mark you imagine. this sonic transducer - it is, i suppose, some kind of audio-vibratory, physiomolecular transport device....
speaker4: you mean...
speaker3: yes brad. it's something we ourselves have been working on. but it seems our friend here has found a way of perfecting it. a device which is capable of breaking down solid matter and then projecting it through space, and - who knows - perhaps even time itself!
speaker2: you mean he's gonna send us to another planet?
speaker1: planet. schmanet. janet.
speaker1: you'd better wise up, janet weiss. you'd better wise up, build your thighs up.

speaker1: janet screams out. 
speaker2: sto-o-o-o-o-op.
speaker3: you're a hot dog but you'd better not try to hurt her, frank furter. frank signals to magenta. bcs magenta's hand on the transducer switch.
speaker4: you're a hot dog but you'd better not try to hurt her, frank furter.
speaker2: you're a hot dog... frank signals. c.s. switch.

speaker1: my i can't take any more of this - first you spurn me for eddie, then you cast him off like an old overcoat for rocky. you chew people up and then spit them out - i loved you, do you hear me - i loved you - and what did it get me - i'll tell you - a big nothing. you're like a sponge. you take, take, take, take! you drain others of their love and emotions. well, i've had enough. you've got to choose between me and rocky - so named because of the rocks in his head. frank throws a switch, she turns to stone. 
speaker2: it's not easy having a good time. he crosses over to riff raff and magenta even smiling makes my face ache. riff raff and magenta nod sympathetically. he lies on the operating table.
speaker2: my children turn on me. rocky's behaving just as eddie did. maybe i made a mistake in splitting his brain between the two of them.
speaker3: when will we return to transylvania?
speaker2: magenta, i am indeed grateful to both you and your brother riff raff - you have both served me well - loyalty such as yours must be rewarded and you will discover when the mood takes me i can be quite generous.
speaker3: i ask for nothing, master.
speaker2: and you shall receive it - in abundance. come. we are ready for the floor show. our guests will be growing restless. the lift moves downwards.

speaker1: and so, by some extraordinary coincidence - fate it seems had decided that brad and janet should keep that appointment with their friend dr everett scott. but it was to be in a situation which none of them could have possibly foreseen. and just a few hours after announcing their engagement, brad and janet had both tasted forbidden fruit. this in itself was proof that their host was a man of little morals - and some persuasion. what further indignities were they to be subjected to? and what of the sonic transducer and floor show that had been spoken of? what indeed? from what had gone before, it was clear that this was to be no picnic. 
speaker2: 149 int. ballroom night

speaker1: columbia's statue comes to life. 
speaker2: it was great when it all began i was a regular frank fan. but it was over when he had the plan to start working on a muscle-man. now the only thing that gives me hope is my love of a certain dope rose tints my world keeps me safe from my trouble and pain.

speaker1: give yourself over to absolutely pleasure swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh nightmares beyond any measure and sensual daydreams to treasure forever. frank enters the pool. can't you just see it. can't you just see it. they begin to immerse themselves in the pool. 161a don't dream it. be it. 
speaker2: don't dream it. be it. dr scott animates belatedly.
speaker3: ach, we've got to get out of this trap before this decadence saps our wills. i've got to be strong and try to hang on. or else my mind, may well snap.
speaker3: und my life will be lived, for the thri-i-i-i-ill...
speaker4: it's beyond me help me mo-ommy. he is pulled back into the pool.
speaker5: bless lilly saint cyr.

speaker1: my my my my 
speaker2: i'm a wild and an untamed thing i'm a bee with a deadly sting. get a hit and your mind goes ping

speaker1: frank n. furter it's all over your mission is a failure. frank looks stunned. your life style's too extreme. frank is guilt-stricken. i'm your new commander. you are now my prisoner. the guests scramble for the safety of the wings. we return to transylvania prepare the transit beam. 
speaker2: wait! i can explain.

speaker1: on the day i went away. 
speaker2: goodbye
speaker1: was all i had to say
speaker2: now i
speaker1: want to come again and stay
speaker2: oh my, my,
speaker1: smile and that will mean i may
speaker1: i've seen blue skies through the tears in my eyes and i realise i'm going home i'm going home frank falls on his knees.
speaker2: feeling
speaker1: like i'm outside in the rain
speaker2: wheeling
speaker1: free to try and find a game
speaker2: dealing
speaker1: cards for sorrow, cards for pain. dr scott switches on wind machine. i've seen blue skies through the tears in my eyes and i realise i'm going home i'm going home.

speaker1: how sentimental. 
speaker2: and also presumptuous of you. you see when i said "we" were to return to transylvania, i referred only to magenta and myself. frank looks appalled.
speaker2: you see, you are to remain here, in spirit anyway.
speaker3: great heavens, that's a laser.
speaker2: yes, dr scott. a laser capable of emitting a beam of pure anti-matter.
speaker4: you mean you're going to kill him?
speaker3: you saw what became of eddie.
speaker2: exactly, dr scott. now frank n. furter, your time has come. say goodbye to all this and hello to oblivion.
speaker5: do your worse - inferior one.
speaker4: good
speaker2: yes.
speaker6: you've killed them.
speaker1: i thought you liked them. they liked you.
speaker2: they didn't like me. they never liked me.
speaker3: you did right.
speaker2: a decision had to be made.
speaker3: you're ok by me.
speaker2: dr scott i'm sorry about your nephew.
speaker3: yes, well perhaps it was for the best.
speaker2: you must leave now dr scott while it's still possible. we are about to beam the entire house back to the planet of transexual in the galaxy of transylvania. go now. the guests flee down the ballroom and out the door.

speaker1: riff raff and magenta's laughter has subsided. 
speaker2: our noble mission is almost completed my most beautiful sister, soon we will return to the moon-drenched shores of our "androgenous" planet.
speaker3: ah - sweet transexual - land of night - to sing and dance once more to your dark refrains. to take that step to the right...
speaker2: but it's the pelvic thrust that really drives you insane.
speaker3: and our world will do the time warp again.
speaker4: there is a huge explosion.

speaker1: i've done a lot knows i've tried to find the truth i've even lied but all i know is down inside. 
speaker2: i'm bleeding.
speaker3: and super heroes come to feast to taste the flesh not yet deceased and al i know is still the beast
speaker4: is feeding.

speaker1: and crawling on the planet's face some insects called the human race lost in time, and lost in space and meaning. he turns and goes to the door of the study. 
speaker2: meaning.

speaker1: the cast credits roll up. 
speaker2: science fiction - double-feature frank has built and lost his creature darkness has conquered brad and janet the servants gone to a distant planet oh - at the late night double-feature picture show - i want to go - ohh -

speaker1: sc. 148 int. narrator's study.n> 
speaker2: oh no my baby - don't be upset - it was a mercy killing. he had a certain naive charm - but no muscle.

