speaker1: they've been cramped for hours. 
speaker2: here, lads, east proctor and all about are the moors. i go east here.
speaker3: yes, well thank you very much for the ride, sir. you have lovely sheep.
speaker2: boys, keep off the moors. stay on the road. good luck to you.
speaker4: thanks again!
speaker3: are you cold?
speaker4: yes.
speaker3: good.
speaker4: jack.
speaker3: david.
speaker4: you're not having a good time are you?
speaker3: oh, i don't know. i mean look around. isn't this a fun place?
speaker4: well, i like it here.
speaker3: i'm sorry. northern england first, italy later.
speaker4: right.
speaker3: do you think she'll meet me in rome?
speaker4: i think debbie klein is a mediocre person with a good body.
speaker3: debbie is not mediocre and she has one of the great bodies of all time.
speaker4: she's a jerk.
speaker3: you're talking about the woman i love.
speaker4: i'm talking about a girl you want to so give me a break.
speaker3: well, anyway, do you think she'll be there?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker3: rendezvous in rome starring jack goodman and debbie klein. the love affair that shocked europe! see torrid at its most explicit! see jack and debbie expose their in the sacred halls of the vatican! never has the screen dared....
speaker4: if you don't stop, i'm going to kill you.
speaker3: i have to make love to her. it's very simple. she has no choice really.
speaker4: it just fascinates me that you can spend so much energy on someone so dull.
speaker3: it is impossible for a body like that to be dull.
speaker4: we've known debbie what, since the eighth grade? how many years of foreplay is that?
speaker3: she says she `likes me too much'.

speaker1: the slaughtered lamb? 
speaker2: of course, the slaughtered lamb. why else would they have a severed fox head on a spear as their symbol?
speaker1: that's a wolf's head.
speaker2: of course, the slaughtered lamb. why else would they have a severed wolf's head on a spear as their symbol?
speaker1: that's not a spear. it's a pike.
speaker2: a severed wolf's head on a pike as their symbol.
speaker1: david, before we go in there i want you to know that - no matter what happens to us - it's your fault.
speaker2: i assume full responsibility.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: shall we?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: nice to see you.
speaker3: silent and staring.

speaker1: do you have any hot soup? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: well, do you have any coffee?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: hot chocolate?
speaker2: we've got spirits and beer. if it's something hot you want, you can have tea.
speaker1: then you have some hot tea?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: but i can heat some up for you if you'd like.
speaker4: yes, please.
speaker1: nice looking group.
speaker3: listen, at least it's warm in here.
speaker1: look at that.

speaker1: what about it? 
speaker2: it's a five-pointed star.
speaker1: maybe the owners are from texas.
speaker2: remember the alamo?
speaker3: i beg your pardon?
speaker1: he was joking. thank you.
speaker3: joking? i remember the alamo. i saw it once in london, in leicester square.
speaker4: she means in the cinema, that film with john wayne. checkmate.
speaker1: oh, yes, of course.
speaker2: right, with laurence harvey and everybody died in it. it was very bloody.
speaker4: awful if you ask me!
speaker4: here, gladys, tom. did you hear the one about the crashing plane?
speaker3: no, but we're about to.
speaker4: you be quiet, woman, and let me speak.
speaker3: quiet, everyone! hush! shhh!
speaker4: all right, laugh then. i shan't tell it.
speaker3: oh, come on, tell us.
speaker4: no. you've had your chance.
speaker2: ask them what the candles are for.
speaker1: you ask them.
speaker2: listen, that's a pentangle, a five-pointed star. it's used in witchcraft. lon chaney, jr. and universal studios maintain it's the mark of the wolf man.
speaker1: i see. you want me to ask these people if they're burning candles to ward off monsters.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: wrong.
speaker4: oh, all right. there was this airplane over the atlantic on its way to new york. it was full of men from the united nations.
speaker3: that's very funny, that is.
speaker2: go on, ask them.
speaker1: you ask them.
speaker4: here now, let me finish! so halfway over the ocean the engines run low on petrol so they have to lighten the plane. so they heave out all the baggage, but it's still too heavy. so they chuck out the seats, but it's still too heavy! finally this froggy steps up and shouts "viva la france" and leaps out. then an englishman....
speaker5: hear! hear!
speaker4: ...steps up and shouts `god save the queen!' and leaps out. but the plane is still too heavy. so the yank delegate from texas steps up, shouts, `remember the alamo!' and chucks out the mexican. this is apparently the funniest joke the inhabitants of east proctor have ever heard. the laughter is uproarious, choking, knee-slapping, incredible. as the chess player goes to take a drink of beer, the dart player gasps out...
speaker6: remember the alamo!
speaker2: excuse me, but what's that star on the wall for?
speaker6: you've made me miss.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker6: i've never missed the board before.
speaker1: jack, we'd better go.
speaker2: what do you mean? i'm starving.
speaker6: there's no food here.
speaker1: come on, jack, shall we go?!!
speaker2: apparently so.
speaker3: you can't let them go.
speaker1: how much do we owe you?
speaker4: nothing, lads. go, be with you.
speaker1: uh, thank you.
speaker3: wait! you just can't let them go!
speaker6: go! and stay on the road.
speaker1: yes, well, thanks again.
speaker4: beware the moon, lads!
speaker2: what the was that all about?
speaker1: i don't know. let's see if there's an inn or something up the road.
speaker2: beware the moon?
speaker1: come on, i'm freezing.
speaker3: you can't let them go.
speaker6: should the world know our business?!
speaker4: it's murder then.
speaker6: then murder it is! it's in hands now.

speaker1: that was weird. i guess leaving was the best idea. 
speaker2: i don't know. now that we're out here and it's three degrees, i'm not so sure i wouldn't rather face a blood- thirsty mob.
speaker1: well, not quite a blood- thirsty mob.
speaker2: what do you think was wrong?
speaker1: i have no idea.
speaker2: maybe that pentangle was for something supernatural.
speaker1: i see and they were too embarrassed to talk about it, because they felt so silly.
speaker1: please don't rain.
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: say, david....
speaker1: i'm well aware of how pleasant the weather is in rome at the present time thank you.
speaker2: santa lucia...santa lucia.

speaker1: perhaps they'll be safe in the rain. 
speaker2: no one brought them here! no one wanted them here!
speaker1: you could have told them!
speaker3: are you daft? what do you think they'd say? they'd think us mad.
speaker1: listen!
speaker1: did you hear it? we must go to them.
speaker3: i heard nothing.
speaker2: nor i.

speaker1: did you hear that? 
speaker2: i heard that.
speaker1: what was it?
speaker2: could be a lot of things.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: a coyote.
speaker1: there aren't any coyotes in england.
speaker2: the hound of the baskervilles.
speaker1: pecos bill.
speaker2: heathcliffe.
speaker1: heathcliffe didn't howl.
speaker2: no, but he was on the moors.
speaker1: it's a full moon, `beware the moon'.
speaker1: i vote we go back to the slaughtered lamb.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: we're lost.
speaker1: david, what is that?
speaker2: i don't know. come on.
speaker1: come on, where?
speaker2: anywhere! i think we should just keep moving.
speaker2: it's moving.
speaker1: it's circling us.
speaker1: 
speaker2: what's the plan?
speaker1: plan?
speaker2: let's just keep walking. they do and david keeps talking as they walk.
speaker2: that's right, a lovely stroll in the moors. tra-la-la, isn't this fun?
speaker2: it's in front of us.
speaker1: do you think it's a dog?

speaker1: oh what is that? 
speaker2: a sheep dog or something. turn slowly and let's walk away.
speaker1: nice doggie. good boy.
speaker2: walk away, jack.
speaker1: walking away, yes, sir. here we are walking away.
speaker2: see anything?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: it sounds far away.
speaker1: not far enough. come on.
speaker2: jack?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: where are we going?
speaker1: i'll tell you when we get there.
speaker2: well. i'm glad we...whoaa!!
speaker1: you really scared me, you shithead.
speaker2: are you going to help me up?

speaker1: jack? oh my jack! 
speaker1: jack....

speaker1: jack?! 
speaker2: mr. kessler?
speaker2: mr. kessler?
speaker3: he all right?
speaker2: yes, i should think. he called out just now.
speaker3: he's an american, you know. dr. hirsch is going to fetch round one of those embassy fellows to see him.
speaker2: chart says he's from new york.
speaker3: i think he's a jew.
speaker2: why on earth do you say that?
speaker3: i looked.
speaker2: really, susan, i don't think that was very proper, and besides, it's common practice now.
speaker4: yes, miss gallagher, miss price is quite right.
speaker2: dr. hirsch, mr. kessler cried out a minute ago.
speaker4: miss gallagher, surely you must perform some function here at the hospital.
speaker3: yes, doctor.
speaker4: then get on with it.
speaker3: yes, doctor.
speaker4: can i be of service, miss price?
speaker2: dr. hirsch?
speaker4: go about your duties.
speaker2: yes, doctor.
speaker4: oh, miss price?
speaker2: yes, doctor?
speaker4: what exactly did he call out?
speaker2: he said `jack'.
speaker4: that would be jack goodman, the boy who was killed.
speaker2: what happened to them?
speaker4: the police report said an escaped lunatic attacked them. he must have been a very powerful man. although i really don't see that it is any of your concern, miss price.
speaker2: no, sir. of course, sir. good day, doctor.

speaker1: hello, david. i am dr. hirsch and this is a countryman of yours, mr. collins. 
speaker2: where am i?
speaker1: you're in a hospital in london.
speaker2: london? where's jack? i had a strange dream.
speaker1: i should think so after your recent traumatic experiences.
speaker2: the guy i was with. is he all right? how did i get to london?
speaker1: now, david, i want you to prepare yourself; your friend is dead.
speaker2: what?
speaker2: ow,
speaker2: jack's dead?
speaker3: mr. kessler, i am mr. collins of the american embassy here in grosvenor square. both mr. goodman's parents and your parents have been notified of your injuries and everything's in order.
speaker2: everything's in order? what are you talking about?
speaker3: mr. goodman's body has been air-freighted back to new york for burial and your parents have wired funds for your stay in the hospital until you are well enough to fly home.
speaker2: you don't crate and ship jack like some side of beef. who the are you people? what's going on here? where is jack? i demand to see him!
speaker1: miss price! miss price, please!
speaker2: get your hands off me! what the is going on here?
speaker3: i realize how upsetting this must be for you, mr. kessler, but please try to refrain from hysterics.
speaker1: prepare a hypodermic, please, miss price.
speaker3: now, mr. kessler, try not to excite yourself. everything has been arranged. i shall come back to check on your progress and send a report to your parents. the police have requested to interview you and i have given them permission to do so.
speaker1: thank you very much, mr. collins. he'll rest now and i'm sure everything will be fine once he's adjusted. he's had quite a shock.
speaker3: these dumb-ass kids never appreciate anything you do for them.
speaker2: how long have i been here?
speaker1: you've been unconscious since you were brought in two weeks ago.
speaker2: two weeks?
speaker1: you've suffered some rather severe cuts and bruises, lost a bit of blood, but nothing too serious; black and blue for a while. you'll have some dueling scars to boast of. that lunatic must have been a very fierce fellow. they say a mad man has the strength of ten.
speaker2: lunatic?
speaker1: now we've just given you a pretty strong sedative, so try to get some rest now. miss price will see to your needs. rest now.
speaker2: it wasn't a lunatic.
speaker4: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: it was a wolf.
speaker4: what?
speaker2: a wolf.
speaker1: did he say a wolf?
speaker4: yes, i believe he did.

speaker1: but roger is so terribly boring. yes, dear, but couldn't we...i see. thursday at eight, dinner with boring roger. yes, i'm sure i will; if i survived rommel, i suppose i'll survive another excruciating evening with roger mathison. be a good girl. bye. 
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: lt. villiers and sgt. mcmanus are here to see you, doctor.
speaker1: send them in.
speaker3: dr. hirsch?
speaker1: come in, come in. please sit. some tea?
speaker3: no, thank you. sgt. mcmanus i'd like some tea, please.
speaker1: it's no problem.
speaker3: no, thank you, doctor.
speaker1: well, then, what can i do for scotland yard? sgt. mcmanus we understand the kessler boy has regained consciousness. lt. villiers glares at mcmanus. sgt. mcmanus sorry.
speaker3: has mr. kessler said anything regarding the attack on the moors?
speaker1: excuse me. yes?
speaker2: roger mathison, doctor.
speaker1: what here?
speaker2: he's on the telephone.
speaker1: tell him i'm out. no, tell him i've passed away. an old war wound or something. tell him i'm dead. and no more calls!
speaker1: you were saying?
speaker3: has david kessler anything to say concerning the attack on the moors?
speaker1: why don't we ask him?

speaker1: i'm sorry if i conflict with your report, but jack and i were not attacked by a man. 
speaker2: so you've said. sgt. mcmanus he may have a point, lieutenant. two strong boys would be able to defend themselves against one man.
speaker2: sgt. mcmanus, are you suggesting that david and jack were, in fact, attacked by some animal and that the officialdom of east proctor has conspired to keep it a secret? we have an autopsy report on the murderer who was shot in the act by the local police. we have two witnesses to the crime. you'll forgive me, mr. kessler, if i consider your testimony as coming from someone who has gone through a terrible shock. sgt. mcmanus lieutenant, the boy seems pretty lucid to me and....
speaker2: and what, sergeant? sgt. mcmanus i don't rightly know, sir.
speaker2: that is precisely my point. david, as far as we are concerned, the matter is closed. we won't trouble you any further. good day.
speaker2: doctor.
speaker1: there were witnesses?
speaker3: so they said.
speaker1: how could there have been witnesses? it was so dark. we were running and i fell and jack went to help me up and this thing came from nowhere...i don't understand what they're talking about.
speaker3: in time i'm sure it will all come back to you.
speaker1: doctor, my memory is fine. it's my sanity i'm beginning to worry about.

speaker1: of david's eyes. 
speaker1: of the frightened deer.

speaker1: mr. kessler? wake up, please. 
speaker2: i was having a nightmare.
speaker1: yes, well these should help that. that's right, drink up.
speaker1: now go back to sleep so you'll be fresh for dr. hirsch in the morning.
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: it's nearly eight. i'm off duty shortly, then i'm off to the films with alex.
speaker2: alex?
speaker1: miss price, the other nurse that attended you.
speaker2: what are you going to see?
speaker1: an american film about the mafia called `see you next wednesday', and i want to see it badly, so you give me no problems and go to sleep.
speaker2: do you have bad dreams, too?
speaker1: some, everyone does.
speaker2: yes, but does everyone kill bambi?
speaker1: bambi?
speaker1: kill bambi?

speaker1: miss price. 
speaker2: yes, mrs. hobbs.
speaker1: take these round now, will you please? the american boy in twenty-one is only to have these after he's eaten. will you be sure of that?
speaker2: has he been refusing food?
speaker1: nothing quite as dramatic as that, miss price. he just doesn't eat enough of what is put before him. he suffers from nightmares. i'd think he just needs a hand to hold.
speaker2: yes, mrs. hobbs.

speaker1: hello, benjamin. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no what?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, all right then, be that way. here, swallow this.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: feeling better?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: the doctor will be round later. would you like a picture book to look at? we have some lovely funny beanos.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: right.

speaker1: has the patient in twenty-one gotten his tray yet? 
speaker2: the american? yes, duck.
speaker1: how did he look?
speaker2: what do you mean, `how did he look'?
speaker1: you know, did he seem depressed? do you think he'll eat the food?
speaker2: i'm an orderly, not a bleeding psychiatrist! i push things about, but i've little say what happens to them.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: mr. kessler?
speaker3: yes?
speaker1: you haven't eaten your lunch.
speaker3: i'm not very hungry, thank you.
speaker1: i'm afraid you have to eat something.
speaker3: please, really. i'm not hungry.
speaker1: you put me in an awkward position, mr. kessler.
speaker3: how is that?
speaker1: well, you're to take these after you've eaten. now what kind of nurse would i be if i failed in so simple a task as giving out some pills?
speaker3: leave the pills. i'll take them later.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker3: aw come on, miss price!
speaker1: call me alex.
speaker3: aw come on, alex!
speaker1: shall i be forced to feed you, mr. kessler?
speaker3: call me david.
speaker1: shall i be forced to feed you, david?
speaker3: this is absurd. i'm not hungry. i don't want any food.
speaker1: right.
speaker1: let's try a little harder, shall we?
speaker3: will you give me a break?
speaker1: will i have to take such drastic action again, david?
speaker3: may i have a glass of milk?

speaker1: orderly! miss gallagher! miss gallagher and an orderly appear at once. 
speaker1: orderly, go at once to twenty- one and restrain the patient.
speaker1: miss gallagher, remain here at the desk. i'll be in twenty- one.

speaker1: you've never had bad dreams before? 
speaker2: sure, as a kid. but never so real. never so bizarre.
speaker1: did you get a good look at the man who attacked you?
speaker2: i've told you, it wasn't a man. it was an animal. a big wolf or something. a rabid dog.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: look, dr. hirsch, i know i've been traumatized, but jack was torn apart. i saw him. a man can't do that to someone with his bare hands.
speaker1: you'd be surprised what horrors a man is capable of.
speaker2: did you see jack?
speaker1: no. in fact, your wounds were cleaned and dressed before you arrived here.
speaker2: did you talk to the police in east proctor? did the cops go to the slaughtered lamb?
speaker1: i really don't know.
speaker2: then why the are you so quick to disbelieve me? you yourself said it must have taken incredible strength to tear apart a person like that.
speaker1: david, please. the police are satisfied. i'm certain that if a monster were out roaming northern england we'd have seen it on the telly.
speaker2: you really think i'm crazy, don't you?
speaker1: believe me. the hound of the baskervilles was an invention of sir arthur conan doyle's. and if you'd read the book, you'd find that holmes discovered your house of a fraud, a fake.
speaker1: now really, david. you're far too intelligent to go on this way. when you return to america i want you to seek out a competent psychiatrist or psychologist or something and stop this nonsense. you'll be leaving this hospital in three or four days, please remain sane. at least until you are no longer our responsibility.
speaker2: dr. hirsch? i'd rather not be by myself.
speaker1: of course not, david. i'll fetch in young miss price.

speaker1: you're a very beautiful girl. 
speaker2: i thought you were asleep.
speaker1: i was. what are you reading?
speaker2: `a connecticut yankee in king arthur's court' by mark twain.
speaker1: do you like it?
speaker2: i've just started it. my friend gave it to me.
speaker2: what do you dream about?
speaker1: i dream of death mostly.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i shouldn't have asked you.
speaker1: it's okay. i want to talk to you.
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker2: that's not really a very proper question.
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker2: twenty-eight.
speaker1: i'm twenty-seven.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: now what do you want to talk about?
speaker2: was jack goodman your good friend?
speaker1: my best friend. my very best friend.
speaker2: shall i read to you?
speaker1: what? oh, yes, please.
speaker2: a connecticut yankee in king arthur's court by samuel l. clemens. this is after the preface but before chapter one: a word of explanation.
speaker1: yes, go on.
speaker2: ahem, a word of explanation. it was in warwick castle that i came across the curious stranger whom i am going to talk about. he attracted me by three things: his candid simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor, and the restfulness of his company - for he did all the talking. we fell together as modest people will in the tail of the herd....

speaker1: i'll get it. 
speaker1: all right, all right! hold your horses.
speaker2: stop!

speaker1: hello. you all right? 
speaker2: i'm sorry i woke you up.
speaker1: don't be silly. can i get you something?
speaker2: no, thank you. just keep me company for a while.
speaker1: that's easy enough.
speaker2: i keep having these really terrible dreams. they are getting worse and i can't seem to stop them.
speaker1: david, your dreams will stop. you'll leave england and your bad memories; and then this will all fade away.
speaker2: will you come with me?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm serious. you don't know me and i know nothing about you. we have a perfect relationship.
speaker1: now, david, i said i would keep you company, but i meant right here and now.
speaker2: will you think about it?
speaker1: how did we get from your bad dreams to my taking a holiday with a patient?
speaker2: not just a patient -- me.
speaker1: you're being awfully forward, aren't you?
speaker2: forgive me, i'm trying to cheer myself up and an affair with a beautiful nurse seemed like just the thing to do it.
speaker1: all i am to you is a fantasy then?
speaker2: now i'm embarrassed.
speaker1: good. i thought for a moment i was the only embarrassed one in the room.
speaker2: where were we in the book?
speaker1: let me see here.

speaker1: ah you're up. good morning and a good day to you. we've quite a meal for you here this morning. bacon, oatmeal, orange juice, and toast with jam. good stuff there. now eat it up and i'll be back for the dishes when you've finished. 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker2: please, sir, i want some more.
speaker3: can i have a piece of toast?
speaker3: nice to see you.
speaker2: get the out of here, jack.
speaker3: thanks a lot.
speaker2: this is too much. i can't handle this.
speaker3: i'm aware that i don't look so great, but i thought you'd be glad to see me.
speaker3: david! you're hurting my feelings.
speaker2: hurting your feelings? has it occurred to you that it may be unsettling to have you rise from your grave to visit me? listen to me, i'm talking to a hamburger!
speaker3: i'm sorry to be upsetting you, david, but i had to come.
speaker2: aren't you supposed to be buried in new york someplace?
speaker3: yeah. your parents came to my funeral. i was surprised at how many people came.
speaker2: why should you be surprised? you were a very well-liked person.
speaker3: debbie klein cried a lot.
speaker2: i can't stand it.
speaker3: so you know what she does? she's so grief stricken she runs to find solace in rudy levine's bed.
speaker2: rudy levine the shmuck?
speaker3: life mocks me even in death.
speaker2: i'm going completely crazy.
speaker3: david!
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: david, now i know this may be hard for you, but i have to warn you.
speaker2: warn me? will you get out of here, you meat loaf?
speaker3: i'm a grisly sight, it's true; but i love you and that's why i'm here. you've got to know.
speaker2: if you love me so much, jack, you'll realize how disconcerting it is to share one's breakfast with the living dead!
speaker3: we were attacked by a werewolf.
speaker2: i'm not listening!
speaker3: on the moors, we were attacked by a lycanthrope, a werewolf.
speaker2: shut up, you zombie!
speaker3: i was murdered, an unnatural death, and now i walk the earth in limbo until the werewolf's curse is lifted.
speaker2: what's wrong with you? shut up!
speaker3: the wolf's bloodline must be severed. the last remaining werewolf must be destroyed.
speaker2: will you be quiet?!
speaker3: it's you, david.
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: you survived and now you shall continue the curse.
speaker2: what are you talking about? i won't accept this! get out!
speaker3: remember what that guy at the slaughtered lamb said?
speaker2: stop it, jack.
speaker3: beware the moon. the full moon, david. you've got two days.
speaker2: jack, please go away. please go away.
speaker3: you'll stalk the streets of london a creature of the night.
speaker2: you're talking like boris karloff! it's movie dialogue!
speaker3: david, please believe me. you will kill people, david. you've got to stop the bloodshed before it begins.
speaker2: nurse!
speaker3: listen to me! take your own life, david. it's our only chance.
speaker2: nurse!
speaker3: the supernatural! the powers of darkness! it's all true. take your own life! suicide, david. join me.
speaker2: nurse! oh alex!
speaker3: it's cold, david, and i'm so alone. the undead surround me. have you ever talked to a corpse? it's boring! i'm lonely! kill yourself, david, before you kill others.
speaker3: don't cry, david.

speaker1: david? david! 
speaker1: david, what's wrong?
speaker2: i'm a werewolf.
speaker1: a werewolf?
speaker1: are you better now?
speaker2: i'll let you know the next full moon.
speaker1: you're to be discharged tomorrow. will you be all right?
speaker2: my friend jack was just here.
speaker1: your dead friend jack?
speaker2: yeah. he says that i will become a monster in two days.
speaker1: what do i think? you mean about the possibility of your becoming a monster in two days or about visits from dead friends?
speaker2: i was dreaming again?
speaker1: i would think so.
speaker2: yeah, i would think so, too.
speaker1: do you have a place to stay in london?

speaker1: the kitchen. 
speaker2: very nice.
speaker1: closet.
speaker2: charming.
speaker1: bathroom.
speaker2: lovely.
speaker1: the bedroom.
speaker2: there is only one bed.
speaker1: david, perhaps you'd like to watch the telly while i take a shower.

speaker1: it's nice to see you. 
speaker2: it's nice to see you.
speaker3: a sequence of soap and flesh. van morrison's "moondance" plays. a montage of soapy hands on slippery skin. thighs rubbing thighs, arms and

speaker1: alex? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: will you be here in about fifteen minutes?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: david, you don't honestly believe that in reality your friend jack rose from the grave to breakfast with you?
speaker1: i was awake and he was in my room.
speaker2: but, david.
speaker1: i wasn't hallucinating.
speaker2: tomorrow is the full moon.
speaker1: that's good, alex. reassure me.
speaker1: it's all right, i know i'm being insane.
speaker1: okay, okay. i'm properly reassured!
speaker1: this is very reassuring. i'm feeling very reassured.

speaker1: you're not real. 
speaker2: don't be an asshole, david. come here.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i wanted to see you.
speaker1: okay, you've seen me. now go away.
speaker2: david, i'm sorry i upset you yesterday, but you must understand what is going on.
speaker1: i understand all right. you're one of the undead and i'm a werewolf.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: get out of here, jack!
speaker2: david, tomorrow night is the full moon. you'll change, you'll become....
speaker1: a monster. i know, i know.
speaker2: you must take your own life now, david, before it's too late.
speaker1: jack, are you really dead?
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: i think i've lost my mind. i think you're not real. i think i'm asleep and you're a part of another bad dream.
speaker2: you must believe me.
speaker1: what, jack? that tomorrow night beneath the full moon i'll sprout hair and fangs and eat people?
speaker2: the canines will be real. you'll taste real blood! damit, david, please believe me! you'll kill and make others like me! i'm not having a nice time, david! don't allow this to happen again! you must take your own life!
speaker1: i will not accept this! now go away!
speaker3: david?

speaker1: this is not pretend, david. 
speaker2: i will not be threatened by a walking meat loaf!
speaker3: david, what's wrong? i heard voices.
speaker2: it was just me, alex. it was just me.

speaker1: a drink for a very cold man? 
speaker2: hello, there. what can i get you?
speaker1: campari and soda would do nicely.
speaker2: sorry, love.
speaker1: i suppose guinness will suffice.
speaker1: a thousand thanks.
speaker1: nasty bit of business with those two young american boys.
speaker3: i'm afraid i don't know what you mean, sir.
speaker1: yes, i'm sure that's right. a few weeks ago, the last full moon wasn't it?
speaker1: i mean that escaped lunatic. the one that killed the boy.
speaker4: and where are you from, sir? dr. hirsch crosses and joins the chess player at his table.
speaker1: london. knight takes pawn.
speaker4: what?
speaker4: oh, yes, yes.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: oh, that's been there for two hundred years. we were going to paint it out, but it's traditional, so we left it.
speaker1: i see. you've heard nothing about the incident?
speaker3: incident?
speaker1: the murder?
speaker4: are you a police officer?
speaker1: no, no, hardly. i work in the hospital where the kessler boy was brought.
speaker1: he was talking about werewolves and monsters and as i was near here i thought....
speaker3: you thought what?
speaker1: i thought i'd look into the boy's story.
speaker4: a story about werewolves - now really, sir.
speaker1: would you like a game of chess?

speaker1: let me go now, you'll make me late. 
speaker2: do me an enormous favor?
speaker1: anything.
speaker2: tell me that it's silly of me to be apprehensive.
speaker1: it's silly of you to be apprehensive.
speaker2: werewolves simply do not exist.
speaker1: david, do you want me to stay here tonight?
speaker2: yeah, i do, but go to work.

speaker1: walk to the sidewalk. it is rather chilly. 
speaker2: listen, if you get too anxious, call me at the hospital, okay?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i've left those pills for you.
speaker1: a doper werewolf.
speaker2: i'm off. there's food in the fridge.
speaker1: see you later.
speaker1: what did i do?
speaker1: thanks a lot, dog.
speaker1: wonderful.
speaker1: an american werewolf was found frozen to death today in the heart of london, england.
speaker1: what did i do, cat?

speaker1: how are we feeling tonight? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no what?
speaker2: no!
speaker1: benjamin, have you ever been severely beaten about the face and neck?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i thought not.
speaker1: you sleep now and have sweet dreams.
speaker3: no!

speaker1: christ! 
speaker1: what? christ! what?
speaker1: i'm burning up!
speaker1: jack!? where are you now, you fucker!?!
speaker1: help me! somebody help me, please! jack!!

speaker1: which one, harry? 
speaker2: number thirty-nine, but let's go `round the back.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: come on, we'll give sean a scare.
speaker1: you're crazy, harry.
speaker3: come on.

speaker1: did you hear something? 
speaker2: just now?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: no. here we are, sean's is the one....

speaker1: sean, those hooligans are in the park again. 
speaker2: aren't you ready yet? they'll be here any minute.
speaker1: something's going on out there.
speaker3: is miss price on duty this evening?
speaker4: yes, doctor.
speaker3: miss gallagher, do you know if miss price has seen the kessler boy since his release?
speaker5: uh, i don't know if....
speaker6: it's all right, susan. yes, doctor, i have.
speaker3: come to my office, miss price.

speaker1: is anyone there? 
speaker2: sit down, alex.
speaker2: i was in east proctor today.
speaker2: oh dear girl, your extracurricular activities are of no consequence to me. i don't give a who you sleep with. i'm concerned about david.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker2: it's a full moon. where is he?
speaker3: at my flat. i'm off at midnight and....
speaker2: the number, alex. your number!

speaker1: he's not there. 
speaker2: he's not?
speaker1: alex, has david persisted in his werewolf fantasies?
speaker2: well, yes, but he seems to be more upset by the death of his friend.
speaker1: has his friend appeared to him again?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: david says jack comes to warn him.
speaker1: warn him?
speaker2: dr. hirsch, what's wrong? is this more serious than i know?
speaker1: i tried to investigate the attack. there are no records. the case was closed and now they've `misplaced' the file. david's lacerations were cleaned and dressed when he arrived here and yet supposedly no doctor examined him before i did. the goodman boy is already in the ground so he's no good to us. so i went to the pub in east proctor where i was convinced of two things.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: they were lying. there were no witnesses, no escaped lunatic. the whole community is hiding the truth of what actually happened up there.
speaker2: and what else?
speaker1: i think the village of east proctor is hiding some dark and terrible secret. i'm convinced that, like david, they believe in this werewolf.
speaker1: you've absolutely no idea where david might be?
speaker2: no. he knows no one in london, besides me. i shouldn't have left him alone.
speaker2: surely you're not suggesting....
speaker1: david has suffered a severe trauma. i myself witnessed some form of mass neurosis in east proctor. if all the villagers believe that jack goodman was killed by a werewolf, why shouldn't david? and then it follows that if he survived an attack by a werewolf, wouldn't he himself become a werewolf the next full moon?
speaker2: dr. hirsch?
speaker1: oh, i don't mean running about on all fours and howling at the moon. but in such a deranged state he could harm himself, or perhaps others.
speaker2: what shall we do?
speaker1: let's call the police and see if they can help us find our wandering boy.

speaker1: old winston smells something. 
speaker2: who's there?
speaker2: let `im go.
speaker3: brave dog that.
speaker1: here - who's there?
speaker2: that's not winston.
speaker3: look there.
speaker1: mother mary of

speaker1: is there someone there? 
speaker1: i can assure you that this is not in the least bit amusing!
speaker1: i shall report this!

speaker1: wake me up, alex. 
speaker1: ouch!

speaker1: dumbfounded. 
speaker2: excuse me, won't you?

speaker1: pssst! 
speaker1: hey, kid! pssst. little boy with the balloons.

speaker1: david cannot be seen. 
speaker2: come over here.
speaker2: if you come over here, i'll give you a pound.
speaker2: two pounds?
speaker2: listen, two pounds is a lot of money. it's almost five dollars.
speaker3: i don't know who you are.
speaker2: i'm the famous balloon thief.
speaker3: why would a thief want to give me two pounds?
speaker2: come here and i'll show you.
speaker2: come on!
speaker2: a little closer.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: yes, love? 
speaker2: a naked, american man stole my balloons.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: a naked, american man -- the famous balloon thief.

speaker1: david! where on earth have you been!?! 
speaker2: i'm freezing.
speaker2: alex, i've lost my mind. i woke up at the zoo! but you know what? i feel terrific!
speaker1: the zoo?
speaker2: waking up at the zoo, that's not so insane. having no clothes on? that's insane. what did i do last night, alex?
speaker1: don't you remember?
speaker2: i said goodbye to you. i was locked out of the flat. i climbed the wall and came in through the bathroom window. i started to read and then i was naked at the zoo! i guess i am out of my mind.
speaker1: i worried about you. we didn't know where you were.
speaker1: where did you get that coat?
speaker3: the phone rings.
speaker1: i'll get it.
speaker1: hello?
speaker4: alex, have you heard anything?
speaker1: he's here.
speaker4: is he all right? why didn't you call me? where was he?
speaker1: he doesn't remember. he woke up at the zoo.
speaker4: the zoo? is he rational?
speaker1: yes, he is. he's very excited and confused, but he's not crazy, if that's what you mean.
speaker4: have you read the papers today? have you listened to the radio or television?
speaker1: no, why?
speaker4: is david acting strangely?
speaker1: no, not really.
speaker4: could you get here without any trouble?
speaker1: yes, i should think so.
speaker4: right. now listen carefully. i want you to bring david here. i want him in my care. i'll notify the police that we've found him. it is imperative that you bring him straight to the hospital. do you understand?
speaker1: yes, doctor.
speaker4: you're certain he's lucid?
speaker1: he's fine. we'll come right over.
speaker4: shall i send a car?
speaker1: no, a cab will be faster.
speaker4: i expect you shortly.
speaker4: yes, scotland yard?
speaker1: the next corner we can get a cab.
speaker2: i should be committed.
speaker1: dr. hirsch will know what to do.
speaker2: i don't know why i feel so good. i haven't felt this good in a long time.
speaker2: my body feels alive, alert. i feel like an athlete.
speaker1: get in.

speaker1: saint martin's hospital. 
speaker2: right.
speaker2: it's like the days of the mad barber of fleet street, isn't it?
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: the murders.
speaker3: what murders?
speaker2: last night. haven't you heard? six people in different parts of the city mutilated. a real maniac this one.
speaker3: pull over.
speaker1: but....
speaker3: pull over.
speaker3: pay the man.
speaker1: david, wait!
speaker1: david, what are you doing?
speaker3: six people mutilated? it had to be me, alex.
speaker1: david, stop!
speaker3: i am going to the cops. there's a full moon tonight.
speaker1: jack is dead!
speaker3: jack is dead. look, six people have been killed. i'm going to the police.
speaker1: david, please be rational.
speaker3: rational!?! i'm a werewolf, for christ's sake!
speaker3: officer, i killed those people last night.
speaker4: you did, did you?
speaker1: he's playing a stupid joke, sir.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: we had an argument. he's being silly.
speaker3: i swear, i don't know this girl.
speaker4: all right, you two, move along.
speaker3: hey, you asshole! i want you to arrest me!
speaker4: there's no call for that kind of language.
speaker3: queen elizabeth is a man! prince charles is a faggot! winston churchill was full of
speaker4: now see here young man.
speaker3: shakespeare was french! the queen mother in hell! piss!
speaker4: that's quite enough!
speaker1: david, please!
speaker3: who is this girl?
speaker4: you're going to have to stop this disturbance or i shall arrest you.
speaker3: that's what i want you to do, you
speaker1: sir, he's very upset. his friend was killed and....
speaker3: will you shut up!?!!
speaker4: that's enough! now go about your business.
speaker1: yes, david, let's go.
speaker3: you're not going to arrest me?
speaker3: don't you think he should arrest me?
speaker5: well, i'm not sure. how does he know this isn't a prank?
speaker3: a prank?
speaker1: david....
speaker4: i've no time for this foolishness. nothing to look at. move along.
speaker3: hopeless. it's hopeless.
speaker1: david, let's go now.
speaker3: leave me alone, you people are crazy! i've got to get away from here! i've got to do something!
speaker1: david, don't lose control.
speaker3: control!?! what control!?! get away from me!
speaker3: leave me alone!
speaker1: david, wait!

speaker1: the forensic lads seem to feel that some sort of animal was involved, that's true, but i hardly think.... 
speaker2: regardless of what you think, lieutenant, the fact remains that david is missing and that we must find him. sgt. mcmanus before nightfall.
speaker2: precisely.
speaker1: gentlemen, please. we shall find mr. kessler as quickly as we're able.
speaker3: he tried to have himself arrested. he....
speaker1: getting arrested isn't all that difficult, miss price.
speaker3: he wants help. he....
speaker2: what can we do to assist you?
speaker1: stay here. if we need you, we'll know where to reach you.
speaker1: i cannot accept a connection between david kessler and last night's murders. we will find him, however. i can assure you of that. sgt. mcmanus we'll find him, not to worry.
speaker3: what shall we do?
speaker2: tea would be nice.
speaker4: yes, operator. i'd like to call the united states and reverse the charges. david kessler for anyone. yes, i'll wait. hello? yes, area code 315/472-3402. thank you. hello? rachel? just say yes, you'll accept the charges. just say yes, rachel. is mom or dad home? where are they? where's max? you're all alone? mom and dad wouldn't leave me alone when i was ten. no, not ten and a half either. i'm still in london. i'm all better. look, would you tell mom and dad that i love them? i don't care, rachel, just do it for me. okay? good. and, rachel, don't fight with max. well, try. look, kid, please don't forget to tell mom and dad i love them. i love max and you, too. well, i do. no, i'm not being weird, you little creep. you promise? okay. be a good girl. i love you. bye.

speaker1: two and a half quid, please. 
speaker2: will you take a traveler's check?
speaker1: no, sorry. david signs a $100 check and hands it to her.
speaker2: keep the change.
speaker1: well, thank you, sir!

speaker1: hi, jack. 
speaker2: hi, david.
speaker1: what can i say, jack?
speaker2: you don't have to say anything.
speaker1: aren't you going to say, `i told you so'?
speaker2: if i was still alive, i probably would.
speaker1: you look awful.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: i didn't mean it. i don't know what i'm saying. i'm not even sure it was me who killed those people. i don't remember doing it.
speaker2: what about the zoo?
speaker1: well, even if i'm not the wolfman, i am crazy enough to do something like that. i mean, here i sit in leicester square talking to a corpse.
speaker2: i want you to meet some people.
speaker2: david kessler, this is gerald bringsly.
speaker1: hello.
speaker2: gerald is the man you murdered in the subway. we thought it best you didn't see him as he's a fresh kill and still pretty messy.
speaker3: yes, i do look most unpleasant.
speaker1: why are you doing this to me, jack?
speaker3: this isn't mr. goodman's idea. he is your good friend, whereas i am a victim of your carnivorous lunar activities.
speaker1: mr. bringsly, i'm sorry. i have absolutely no idea what to say to you.
speaker3: you've left my wife a widow and my children fatherless. and i understand that i am to walk the earth one of the living dead until the wolf's bloodline is severed and the curse lifted.
speaker3: you must die, david kessler.
speaker2: david, this is harry berman and his fiancee judith browns.
speaker2: and these gentlemen are alf, ted, and joseph.
speaker4: can't say we're pleased to meet you, mr. kessler.
speaker1: what shall i do?
speaker2: suicide.
speaker5: you must take your own life!
speaker1: that's easy for you to say - you're already dead.
speaker3: no, david. harry and i and everyone you murder are not dead. the undead.
speaker1: why are you doing this to me?
speaker2: because this must be stopped.
speaker1: how shall i do it?
speaker6: sleeping pills?
speaker7: not sure enough.
speaker1: i could hang myself.
speaker2: if you did it wrong, it would be painful. you'd choke to death.
speaker8: so what? let `im choke.
speaker2: do you mind? the man's a friend of mine.
speaker8: well he ain't no friend of mine.
speaker3: gentlemen, please.
speaker5: a gun.
speaker7: i know where he can get a gun.
speaker1: don't i need a silver bullet or something?
speaker2: be serious, would you?
speaker1: madness. i've gone totally mad.
speaker5: a gun is good.
speaker6: you just put the gun to your forehead and pull the trigger.
speaker3: if you put it in your mouth, then you'd be sure not to miss.
speaker1: thank you, you're all so thoughtful.

speaker1: go away! please! go away! 
speaker1: run! please...run.

speaker1: as the cop bolts the door shut. 
speaker2: for sake, tom, there's a monster in there!
speaker2: call for assistance and tell them to bring guns.
speaker3: keep moving! will you people get out of the way!
speaker4: nurse hobbs said there's a disturbance in leicester square involving some sort of mad dog.
speaker5: david?
speaker4: i doubt it. but it's something to do.

speaker1: what the is going on here? 
speaker2: it's some kind of animal, sir. we....

speaker1: let me through! 
speaker2: stand clear, miss!
speaker1: i must get through!
speaker3: alex! alex walks towards the dark end of the alley.
speaker1: david? is it you? is it true, david?
speaker1: david?
speaker4: fire!

