speaker1: i'm looking for james. has anybody seen james ballard? you know who i mean? the producer of this epic. 
speaker2: i think i saw him in the camera department.

speaker1: james? james, are you in there? could we please get your stamp of approval on our little tracking shot? 
speaker2: of course. be there in a minute.
speaker3: it'll take more than a minute.

speaker1: where were you? 
speaker2: in the private aircraft hangar. anybody could have walked in.
speaker1: did you come?
speaker2: no. what about your camera girl? did she come?
speaker1: we were interrupted. i had to go back to the set...
speaker2: poor darling. what can i do about karen? how can i arrange to have her seduce me? she desperately needs a conquest.
speaker1: i've been thinking about that, about you and karen.

speaker1: there, that's better. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: not a lot of action here.
speaker2: they consider this to be the airport hospital. this ward is reserved for air-crash victims. the beds are kept waiting.
speaker1: if i groundloop during my flying lesson on saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
speaker2: i'll listen for you buzzing over.
speaker2: is that a gift from wendel? it has an aeronautical feel to it.
speaker1: yes. from wendel. to celebrate the licence approval for our air-charter firm. i forgot to tell you.
speaker2: that's going well, then.
speaker1: well, yes.
speaker1: the other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor -- dr helen remington. she's here, somewhere. as a patient, of course. maybe you'll find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
speaker2: and her husband? what was he?
speaker1: he was a chemical engineer with a food company.
speaker3: no smoking, please.
speaker3: are you this gentleman's wife? mrs ballard?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: you can stay for this, then.
speaker1: aida telephoned to say how sorry she was, but could you look at the storyboards again, she's made a number of changes.
speaker2: where's the car?
speaker1: outside in the visitors' car-park.
speaker2: what!? they brought the car here?
speaker1: my car, not yours. yours is a complete wreck. the police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
speaker2: have you seen it?
speaker1: the sergeant asked me to identify it. he didn't believe you'd gotten out alive.
speaker2: it's about time.
speaker1: it is?
speaker2: after being bombarded endlessly by road-safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself in an actual accident.

speaker1: james ballard? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: crash victim?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: we'll deal with these later.
speaker2: dr. remington...?

speaker1: both front wheels and the engine were driven back into the driver's section, bowing the floor. blood still marked the hood, streamers of black lace running toward the windshield-wiper gutters. 
speaker1: minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. the instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. the cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. the carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
speaker2: you should have gone to the funeral.
speaker1: i wish i had. they bury the dead so quickly -- they should leave them lying around for months.
speaker2: what about his wife? the woman doctor? have you visited her yet?
speaker1: no, i couldn't. i feel too close to her.

speaker1: renata tells me you're going to rent a car. 
speaker2: i can't sit on this balcony forever. i'm beginning to feel like a potted plant.
speaker1: how can you drive? james... your legs. you can barely walk.
speaker2: is the traffic heavier now? there seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
speaker1: i've never really noticed. is renata going with you?
speaker2: i thought she might come along. handling a car again might be more tiring than i imagine.
speaker1: i'm amazed that she'll let you drive her.
speaker2: you're not envious?
speaker1: maybe i am a little. james, i've got to leave for the office. are you going to be all right?

speaker1: are we allowed to park here? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
speaker2: there's still a patch of blood there on the road. did you see it?
speaker1: i saw the blood. it looks like motor oil.
speaker2: you were the last one i saw just before the accident. do you remember? we made love.
speaker1: are you still involving me in your crash?

speaker1: can you drive? 
speaker2: i can drive.

speaker1: i can't believe you've done this. 
speaker2: this is the exact same car as your old one, isn't it?
speaker1: yes, it is. are you planning to have another car crash?
speaker3: i'm not thinking about the crash at all.

speaker1: after this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one? i'm trying to find charles's car. 
speaker2: it's not here. maybe the police are still holding it. their forensic people...
speaker1: they said it was here. they told me this morning.
speaker1: this is your car?
speaker2: you'll tear your gloves.
speaker2: i don't think we should have come here. i'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult.
speaker1: were you badly hurt? i think we saw each other at the hospital. i don't want the car. in fact, i was appalled to find that i have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
speaker2: can i give you a lift? i somehow find myself driving again.

speaker1: you haven't told me where we're going. 
speaker2: haven't i? to the airport, if you could.
speaker1: the airport? why? are you leaving?
speaker2: not yet -- though not soon enough for some people, i've already found. a death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
speaker1: i take it you're not wearing white to reassure them.
speaker2: i'll wear a kimono if i want to.
speaker1: so -- why the airport?
speaker2: i work in the immigration department there.
speaker2: do you want a cigarette? i started to smoke at the hospital. it's rather stupid of me.
speaker1: look at all this traffic. i'm not sure i can deal with it.
speaker2: it's much worse now. you noticed that, did you? the day i left the hospital i had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason i didn't understand. there seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
speaker1: are we imagining it?
speaker2: you've bought yourself exactly the same car again. it's the same shape and colour.

speaker1: i've found that i enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. i like to look at it. yesterday i hired a taxi-driver to drive me around for an hour. 'anywhere,' i said. we sat in a massive traffic jam under an off- ramp. i don't think we moved more than fifty yards. i'm thinking of taking up a new job with the road research laboratory. they need a medical officer. the salary is larger -- something i've got to think about now. there's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, i'm beginning to feel. well, it's a new approach for me, in any case. 
speaker2: the road research laboratory? where they simulate car crashes?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: isn't that rather too close...?
speaker1: that's the point. besides, i know i can give something now that i wasn't remotely aware of before. it's not a matter of duty so much as of commitment.

speaker1: i almost forgot to give you this. probably because i know you're going to like it. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: a complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. definitely not part of the big auto show. there's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discreet about the location.
speaker2: really? what kind of exhibition is it?
speaker1: i suspect it involves re-enactments of famous car crashes. you know, jayne mansfield, james dean, albert camus...
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker1: serious. but you'll have to take your new friend, the female crash- test dummy. she dropped it off for you.
speaker2: you're not jealous, are you? you have to understand... helen and i had this strange, intense... experience together.
speaker1: we've had a few of those ourselves, haven't we?

speaker1: it's strange -- i thought all this would be far more popular. 
speaker2: the real thing is available free of charge. besides, it's not quite legal. they can't advertise.
speaker3: the first star of our show is 'little bastard', james dean's racing porsche. he named it after himself, and had his racing number, 130, painted on it.
speaker1: who is that? the announcer. do i know him?
speaker2: that's vaughan. he talked to you at the hospital.
speaker1: oh, yes. i thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. he wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
speaker2: when i first met vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. i don't know what he is now.
speaker3: the second star is stuntman and former race driver -- colin seagrave, who will drive our replica of james dean's car.

speaker1: is that part of the act or are they really hurt? 
speaker2: i don't know. you can never be sure with vaughan. this is his show.
speaker3: rolf wã¼therich was thrown from the porsche and spent a year in the hospital recovering from his injuries. donald turnupseed was found wandering around in a daze, basically unhurt. james dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.

speaker1: hold me. i'm dizzy. i can't stand up. 
speaker2: i know that man, seagrave, the stunt driver. i think he's genuinely hurt.

speaker1: what's the matter with seagrave? 
speaker2: hit his head, i think. his balance is off.

speaker1: why are the police taking this all so seriously? 
speaker2: it's not the police. it's the department of transport. internal politics. it's a joke. they have no idea who we really are.

speaker1: oh, what happened? here, lie down. 
speaker2: they did the james dean crash. it seemed to go perfectly. but he started to feel nauseous on the way back. i'm sure it's concussion.
speaker1: ah, well... we're familiar enough with that, then, aren't we?
speaker3: i'd really like to work out the details of the jayne mansfield crash with you. we could do the decapitation -- her head embedded in the windshield -- and the little dead dog thing as well. you know, the chihuahuas in the back seat. i've got it figured out.
speaker4: you know i'll be ready, vaughan. but i'll want to wear really big -- out to here -- so the crowd can see them get cut up and crushed on the dashboard.
speaker3: don't leave yet, ballard. i want you to help me.

speaker1: do you live here? with seagrave? 
speaker2: and this is the new project, ballard.
speaker1: what kind of help can i possibly be to you? you seem to be everywhere at once as it is.
speaker3: thought you might be missing these. so here you are at the nerve centre. vaughan makes everything look like a crime, doesn't he?
speaker1: what exactly is your project, vaughan? a book of crashes? a medical study? a sensational documentary? global traffic?
speaker2: it's something we're all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology.

speaker1: vaughan, what the are you doing? are you trying to create your own famous crash? 
speaker2: it excited her, ballard. your wife, catherine. she enjoyed it. ask her.

speaker1: he must have a lot of women in that huge car of his. it's like a bed on wheels. it must smell of semen... 
speaker2: it does.
speaker1: do you find him attractive?
speaker2: he's very pale. covered with scars.
speaker1: would you like to him, though? in that car?
speaker2: no. but when he's in that car...
speaker1: have you seen his penis?
speaker2: i think it's badly scarred too. from a motorcycle accident.
speaker1: is he circumcised? can you imagine what his is like? describe it to me. would you like to him? would you like to put your right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? tell me, describe it to me. tell me what you would do. how would you kiss him in that car? describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. would you kiss it or it right away? which hand would you hold it in? have you ever sucked a penis? do you know what tastes like? have you ever tasted semen? some is saltier than others. vaughan's must be very salty...

speaker1: please finish your story. 
speaker2: the junior pathologist at ashford hospital. then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
speaker1: and you had with all of these men in cars? only in cars?
speaker2: yes. i didn't plan it that way.
speaker1: and did you fantasize that vaughan was photographing all these acts? as though they were traffic accidents?
speaker2: yes. they felt like traffic accidents.

speaker1: get all the paper you can, ballard. some of the stuff they're giving away is terrific: 'mechanisms of occupant ejection', 'tolerances of the human face in crash impacts'... helen takes james's arm, smiling at him, nodding 
speaker2: we can have a look at it again on the monitors. they're showing it in slow motion.

speaker1: i've always wanted to drive a crashed car. 
speaker2: you could get your wish at any moment.
speaker1: no, i mean a crash with a history. camus's facel vega, or nathaniel west's station wagon, grace kelly's rover 3500. fix it just enough to get it rolling. don't clean it, don't touch anything else.
speaker2: is that why you drive this car? i take it that you see kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car crash?
speaker1: the case could be made.
speaker1: take a look at this and tell me what you think.
speaker2: it's very... satisfying. i'm not sure i understand why.
speaker1: it's the future, ballard, and you're already part of it. for the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. for example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event -- a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. to fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project.
speaker2: what about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? i thought that was your project.
speaker1: a crude sci-fi concept that floats on the surface and doesn't threaten anybody. i use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.

speaker1: you drive. 
speaker1: let's get rid of that. i don't want you blowing it up my urethra.

speaker1: your friend's still out there. 
speaker1: what does he want from you?
speaker2: hard to say.
speaker1: i'm going to leave now. do you want a lift?
speaker2: no, thanks. i'll go with vaughan.

speaker1: they're questioning vaughan about an accident near the airport. some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally. 
speaker2: vaughan isn't interested in pedestrians.
speaker1: you'd better drive him. he's a bit shaky. i'll follow in my car. where is yours?
speaker2: at home. i couldn't face all this traffic.
speaker1: i'd better come with you, then. are you sure you can drive?

speaker1: it's seagrave. he was worried that we would never do jayne mansfield's crash, now that the police were cracking down. so he did it himself. 
speaker1: come with me, james. i have to document it.

speaker1: we must have driven through a pool of blood. if the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed. 
speaker2: you're right, ballard. there's an all-night car-wash in the airport service area.

speaker1: is there something here that interests you? 
speaker2: the white sports model. could you help me into it, please? i'd like to see if i can fit into a car designed for a normal body.

speaker1: don't. not there. 
speaker1: do it there. and then after that, do it here.

speaker1: somebody named vaughan. do you want it? 
speaker2: hello? ballard.
speaker3: i need to see you, ballard. i need to talk to you about the project.
speaker2: where are you?

speaker1: you're making it too clean. 
speaker2: medical tattoos are supposed to be clean.
speaker1: this isn't a medical tattoo. this is a prophetic tattoo. prophesy is dirty and ragged. make it dirty and ragged.
speaker2: prophetic? is this personal prophesy or global prophesy?
speaker1: there's no difference. james -- i want you to let her give you this one.
speaker3: where do you think that one should go?
speaker1: it should go here.

speaker1: i thought that was you, up there. 
speaker2: my last lesson's next week. james... my car...
speaker1: what? tell me.

speaker1: i wasn't driving. i'd left the car in the parking-lot at the airport. could it have been deliberate? 
speaker2: one of your suitors?
speaker1: one of my suitors.
speaker2: it's vaughan. he's courting you. let's go find him.

speaker1: the traffic... where is everyone? they've all gone away. 
speaker2: i'd like to go back. james...
speaker1: not yet. it's only beginning.

speaker1: vera! vera seagrave! 
speaker1: are you leaving, vera? listen, i'm trying to find vaughan.
speaker2: the police are after him. an american serviceman was killed on the northolt overpass.
speaker2: i was with him in the car at the time.
speaker1: i think he'll be waiting for us at the airport.
speaker3: james...

speaker1: i'd like to register a claim for the black 1963 lincoln, the one that came in a couple of days ago. is there a form i can fill out? 
speaker2: there certainly is, but you'll have to come back between 7:30 and 4:30 to get one. what's your attachment to that thing?
speaker1: a close friend owned it.
speaker2: well, it's got to be a total write- off. i don't see what you could possibly do with it.

speaker1: catherine. are you all right? are you hurt? 
speaker2: james, i... i don't know... i think i'm all right...
speaker1: maybe the next one, darling... maybe the next one...

