speaker1: we're out of capt'n crunch. 
speaker2: just give him toast.

speaker1: we got no butter, we got no jelly. 
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: listening for the trucks.
speaker1: are they really coming?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: where's dad?
speaker1: where's dad?
speaker2: i don't know how he found it, t.j.
speaker1: found what?
speaker1: the money?
speaker2: i locked it in my glove compartment.
speaker1: that was stupid.
speaker2: yeah, i see that now, but the trucks were coming before the bank opened.

speaker1: did you tell him you had it? 
speaker2: duh? no, i guess he just sniffed it out.
speaker1: christ! the glove compartment!? that's the stupidest place you could have put it.
speaker2: he hasn't bought a scratch card in almost thirty two months. i thought it would be okay!
speaker1: did he leave anything?
speaker1: what are you gonna do?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: you could look for him?
speaker2: he could be anywhere.
speaker1: we should look for him.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: the rez,
speaker2: with more than four thousand dollars, he's probably in atlantic city by now.
speaker1: so let's go, let's find him before he blows it all.

speaker1: i can't. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i just can't do it anymore.
speaker2: but he'll lose it all.
speaker1: t.j., we can't make him stop.
speaker2: he stole our money. call the troopers.
speaker1: it's not stealing if you take it from your family. anyway, he made some of it, too.
speaker2: so you're just gonna sit there?
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: another christmas in the tin crapper. t.j. goes into the shed and slams the door.

speaker1: is it here? 
speaker2: hey, little sleepy head.
speaker1: is it here yet? `cause i'm ready.
speaker2: wait a sec- he bursts into the yard where:

speaker1: we're all ready for ya'. 
speaker2: we'll need the balloon payment to unload. t.j. looks at ray.
speaker1: we have it, it's just that they called troy from titus last night. that's where troy works. the ski place? and anyway-
speaker2: have you got the $4,372 dollars or not?
speaker1: it was some emergency with the lifts. so he took off without thinking with the money. completely forgot you were coming. so as soon as he gets back-
speaker2: when's he gonna be back?
speaker1: as soon as he can get here, i'll just run it down to you. t.j. could crawl out of his skin.
speaker2: this is the second time you've dragged me out here. if you don't come up with it by christmas, you've lost your fifteen hundred dollar deposit.
speaker1: look, mr. versales, i have a good job at all for a dollar. they're probably gonna make me a manager after christmas so i can handle the payments if you just leave the house-

speaker1: he gets in the car. 
speaker2: call me when you have the balloon payment.
speaker3: i'll call you... her voice is drowned out by revving engines.
speaker4: wait, where are they going?
speaker3: listen to me. we'll get them back.
speaker4: but why are they leaving?
speaker3: ricky, i'll get them back. i promise, honey.
speaker4: that's our house!
speaker3: we're gonna get it back.
speaker3: you better hurry or you're going to miss the bus. let's get your clothes on, ricky.

speaker1: t.j. just stares at her. 
speaker2: i can get a job you know.
speaker3: you're 15, t.j.
speaker2: they won't ask any questions.
speaker3: you're finishing school.
speaker2: come on, you don't think we can live on what you make at all for a dollar do you?
speaker3: you're going to school.
speaker2: i bet i could make more than you do.

speaker1: where's daddy? 
speaker2: he'll be back.
speaker3: aren't we even gonna look for him?
speaker2: no! i'm going to work and you're going to school.
speaker3: that's it?

speaker1: the only thing that changed is that your dad started gambling again. everything else is the same. 
speaker2: where did he go?
speaker1: he had to take a business trip.
speaker3: aren't you even gonna look for him?
speaker1: and miss a day of work? no. not again. we just have to live our lives. now go get your backpack.
speaker1: go on!
speaker2: when is daddy coming home?
speaker1: i don't know, ricky.
speaker3: i can't believe you're not even gonna look for him.
speaker1: where? where do i look?
speaker3: the reservation.
speaker1: i told you, he could be in atlantic city by now.
speaker3: the glove compartment. that's so stupid.
speaker1: you're going to school.

speaker1: wait, wait. 
speaker1: here. lunch money.

speaker1: matt. could i talk to you? 
speaker1: i need to come on full-time.
speaker2: i see you as a short timer.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: a short timer. not here for long, not really committed.

speaker1: when i started you said it would be six months before i could come on full-time. and that was two years ago. 
speaker2: it's my opinion.
speaker1: well, i mean, you know, i do show up. pat's late everyday. she's late now. she's always late.
speaker1: see ya' tomorrow.

speaker1: fill it up? 
speaker2: just three...uh, no...two seventy one, two, three, four.
speaker1: two seventy four.
speaker2: make that seven seventy four.
speaker2: did you see a blue acclaim come in here last night?
speaker1: blue acclaim...no, but i only worked until 9 pm. you can ask inside.
speaker2: no, that's okay.
speaker1: did you want to support our mosquito lacrosse league. it teaches basic lacrosse skills to the kids three to five.
speaker1: thanks, anyway. have a good day.

speaker1: thank you. oh thank you, thank you thank you... 
speaker1: you son of a

speaker1: sunrise session is almost over. next session starts at 10:30. 
speaker2: i just need to look inside.
speaker3: it's $5 dollars for admission.

speaker1: i don't want to play, i just need to look around for a second. 
speaker2: i'm gonna need the five.
speaker1: i'll stand right here at the door. i won't even go inside. i just need to see if my husband's in there.
speaker2: you still gotta pay admission.
speaker1: he's gambling away the money for our house.
speaker2: what does he look like?
speaker1: long brown hair. tall. skinny. ponytail.
speaker2: he's not in there.
speaker1: can i just look?
speaker2: i told you, lady, he's not in there. ray walks away. the ticket taker watches her.

speaker1: that's my car. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: what are you doing with my car?
speaker2: that? i found it.
speaker1: you stole it.
speaker2: the keys were in it.
speaker1: so you just took it...?
speaker1: we'll just see what the troopers say about that.

speaker1: you can cut the and give me my keys now. 
speaker1: troy, are you in there?
speaker1: if you're in there you better come out.

speaker1: the tribal police don't like people shooting holes in other people's houses. 
speaker2: this is new york state so quit the and give me my keys!

speaker1: this camper belongs to my brother in law. he won't like this. 
speaker2: then you should quit stealing cars.
speaker1: i thought it was abandoned, the guy driving it got on a bus.
speaker2: did you see where the bus was headed?

speaker1: new york or buffalo, i'm not sure. 
speaker2: 
speaker2: i'm not leaving this here.
speaker1: i got a friend who might buy that.
speaker2: it's not for sale.
speaker1: he'll pay more than it's worth.
speaker1: maybe two thousand.
speaker2: why's that?

speaker1: he's always looking for cars with button- release trunks. ray thinks about it. 
speaker1: he don't need papers or anything.
speaker2: does he use them to rob banks or something?
speaker1: all i know is he pays good for a car like this.
speaker2: where does he live?
speaker1: through the woods. not far.
speaker2: what's in it for you?
speaker1: he'll give me something for finding it.
speaker2: if you try anything, i'm not afraid to use this.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: turn up there. 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: where that stump is.

speaker1: there's no road. 
speaker2: there's a path.
speaker2: it's not far.

speaker1: not too fast. there's ruts. 
speaker2: i'm not crossing that!
speaker1: don't worry they already put out the christmas trees. there's no black ice.
speaker2: that's canada.
speaker1: no, it's mohawk land. the rez is on both sides of the river.
speaker2: what about the border patrol?

speaker1: there's no border. 
speaker2: i'm still not crossing that.
speaker1: don't worry, it'll hold a plymouth. i've seen semis cross it. ray looks at lila suspiciously.
speaker1: the only other way is the cornwall bridge and they won't let you take that. .
speaker1: they plow it and everything.
speaker2: this is so stupid.
speaker1: not too fast, there are ruts.

speaker1: honk the horn. ray honks. 
speaker1: just keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: just keep it shut. okay?
speaker2: thunder! shut up!.
speaker2: get back under there!

speaker1: hi, jimmy. 
speaker2: he don't like whites, lila.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: and your late.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: i shouldn't even be dealing with you.
speaker1: i know. sorry. he hands her a paper bag.

speaker1: count it. 
speaker2: what's going on here?
speaker1: just count it.
speaker1: how much is there?

speaker1: twelve hundred. 
speaker2: let's go.
speaker1: wait, who the are they?
speaker2: just back up.
speaker1: i'm not moving until those people get out of my trunk.
speaker2: i'll give you half. now let's go.
speaker2: let's go!
speaker1: i'm not taking them over the border.
speaker2: there's no border here. this is free trade between nations.
speaker1: this isn't a nation.
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: why'd your husband leave you? 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: maybe he wanted a younger women.
speaker1: that's what usually happens.
speaker1: i never have to worry about that. my husband is dead. went down in the river on a run. they never found him. probably tangled in river weeds.
speaker1: you better slow down there are ruts out here. you could get stuck in one.

speaker1: keep going. 
speaker2: what if the troopers stop us.
speaker1: they won't stop you. you're white.

speaker1: pull around back then wait for him to come to the window. lila keeps the gun low. 
speaker1: roll down your window.
speaker1: count it.
speaker2: twelve hundred.

speaker1: let's go. 
speaker2: lila keeps the gun on ray.
speaker1: turn down there.
speaker1: stop here.
speaker1: now open the door. ray hesitates. lila jams the gun in her side.
speaker1: open the door.
speaker1: now get out.
speaker3: you can't have my car.
speaker1: get out.
speaker3: you can't have my car.

speaker1: no! 
speaker1: 
speaker1: little
speaker1: i told you not to use that thing when i'm not here.
speaker2: if i get it working i can sell it.
speaker1: i don't care. don't use that thing when i'm not here!

speaker1: rentaworld called. they're coming to get the tv if you don't pay by four tomorrow. he notices the car. 
speaker1: did you find him?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: where was the car?
speaker2: at the bus stop on the rez.
speaker1: i bet he went to atlantic city.
speaker2: you don't know that.
speaker1: yeah, but you could figure it out. just find out what buses came through last-
speaker2: and then what? chase him across the country. miss work. no.
speaker1: what happened to your face?
speaker2: nothin'.
speaker1: what, did you get in a fight with somebody?
speaker2: it was no big deal.
speaker1: you got in a fight, for real?
speaker2: some indian chick tried to steal your dad's car.

speaker1: no way. i say we go back there and kick some mohawk ass. 
speaker2: it doesn't matter.
speaker1: where's your car?
speaker2: i'll get it tomorrow.
speaker1: you left it on the rez? that's so stupid.
speaker2: i didn't have a tow rope.
speaker1: i still say we go back there and kick some mohawk ass.
speaker2: forget it t.j. did you and ricky eat?
speaker1: that would be kinda miraculous since there's no food in the house.
speaker2: there's food.
speaker1: popcorn and tang.

speaker1: hi, lila 
speaker2: mike.

speaker1: she glances at a row of beat used cars. 
speaker2: how's life at the bingo palace.
speaker3: good. how's business?
speaker2: oh, you know, okay.
speaker3: how much for that one?
speaker2: come on, lila.
speaker3: what?! i've been saving up.
speaker2: you know what.
speaker3: does bernie littlewolf run your whole life?
speaker2: no, but he said not to sell you a car.
speaker3: i gotta walk down 37 with the semis kickin' up snow and mud in my hair just to get to the work.
speaker2: for you, all i got are two chevettes,a horizon and a civic.
speaker3: i don't like chevettes.
speaker2: i figured.
speaker3: i'll give you a thousand for the malibu.

speaker1: nothing with a trunk. 
speaker2: that thing has been sittin' here for six months.
speaker1: i don't want bernie in my face. okay?
speaker2: he doesn't have to know.
speaker3: mommy, i was thinking. what's gonna happen to the tin crapper when we get our new house?
speaker4: they're gonna flatten it out and send it to china.
speaker3: then what?
speaker4: they're gonna melt it down and make little toys out if it.
speaker3: then what?
speaker4: they'll send them back here so i can sell them at all for a dollar.
speaker3: and you can buy me some?
speaker4: that's right.
speaker3: yes!

speaker1: i'm not eatin' that again for dinner. 
speaker2: we just have to make it to my paycheck on friday.
speaker1: what about rentacenter?
speaker2: what about them?
speaker1: they said they're coming to get the furniture if they don't get a payment by 4 o'clock.
speaker2: you told me that already.
speaker2: here, lunch money.
speaker1: look i don't see why you won't just let me get a job with mitch.
speaker2: who's mitch.
speaker1: he's got like this whole business he runs.
speaker2: he sells pot to kids?
speaker1: no, it's computers. he works on computers.

speaker1: you're fifteen, it's not gonna happen so forget it. 
speaker2: that's so stupid. we're gonna lose the tv while i'm sitting in some christmas assembly when i could be-
speaker1: your job is looking after your brother.

speaker1: you hear me! 
speaker1: i want my part.
speaker1: i want my part.
speaker2: i'll give you the money if you give me the car.
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: the money's gone.
speaker1: then i wanna get some more of those chinese.
speaker2: it's gonna cost me to get that hole fixed. i froze last night.
speaker1: i just need enough for the balloon payment on my doublewide then i'm out of this. i'm no criminal.
speaker2: it's not a crime.
speaker1: you people can call it what you want to. i just want my double.

speaker1: i don't usually work with whites. 
speaker2: suit yourself.

speaker1: how many bedrooms? 
speaker2: three. i got kids.
speaker1: how old?
speaker2: five and fifteen.
speaker1: i got a boy. almost one.
speaker1: he lives with my mother-in-law. she stole him from me.
speaker2: stole him?
speaker1: yeah. right out of the hospital.
speaker2: stole him?

speaker1: bernie was askin' if i'd seen you. i told him no. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: i don't want any trouble with him, lila.
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker1: this guy's been calling all morning. he's got two up at the old casino.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: what's going on?
speaker2: we gotta pick them up.

speaker1: where? 
speaker2: not far.
speaker1: where's that?
speaker2: an old casino through the woods. they used to have gambling there in the bootlegger days.

speaker1: what the is he doing? 
speaker2: keep that thing down.
speaker2: roll down the window and see what he wants.
speaker1: what the is going on here?
speaker2: just roll it down.

speaker1: bruno stands at ray's window. 
speaker2: d'ey don't like de women driver.
speaker3: count it.
speaker4: twelve hundred.

speaker1: open it. 
speaker2: d'is will keep d'em from running.

speaker1: why would they want to run? 
speaker2: to get away from the snakeheads.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: the snakeheads pay to get them here and then they gotta work off what they owe .
speaker1: how much does it cost?
speaker2: forty, fifty thousand. depends where they're coming from.
speaker1: to get here?
speaker2: sometimes they gotta work for years to pay it off.
speaker1: to get here? no way.
speaker1: those are ripe.
speaker2: they always stink.

speaker1: yeah, but they can't stop you unless you give them a reason. 
speaker2: have you ever gotten caught?
speaker1: once.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: they gave me the choice of paying a fine or spending three months in jail.
speaker2: what did you do?
speaker1: i paid the fine. i made the money back in two nights of smuggling. but back then it was cigarettes and everybody did it. some of the troopers were into it, too.
speaker2: smuggling?
speaker1: yeah. but when they lowered the tax on cigarettes in canada most people got out of it and the rest switched over to chinese.

speaker1: count it. 
speaker2: right, i know.

speaker1: well, be sure it's right. i don't wanna get stiffed. 
speaker2: then why don't you count it?
speaker1: i got bad eyes.
speaker2: you're welcome.

speaker1: what about mine? 
speaker2: we're even now.

speaker1: a rentaworld truck is parked outside. two large 
speaker2: my mom told me to give you her credit card number.
speaker3: we only take cash or money orders.
speaker2: well, my mom might be late.
speaker3: she's got three minutes.

speaker1: it's okay. i got it right here. . two fifty five, right? the men nod, relieved. ray counts out the money. ricky bursts out the door and runs towards ray. 
speaker2: mommy!

speaker1: wanna to go to the price chopper? 
speaker2: where'd you get that?
speaker1: matt made me an assistant manager.
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: is that so hard to believe?
speaker2: it's been like two years.
speaker1: exactly, and that's why he gave me a bonus.
speaker1: do you wanna go to the price chopper or not?

speaker1: temps will dip tonight and tomorrow. expect a clipper from northern ontario to bring 8 to 12 inches of snow and winds gusting 25-45 miles an hour making it feel like minus 30. area farmers are advised to bring in livestock. more on this after a message. 
speaker2: that's what he wants.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: for christmas.
speaker3: what is it, again?
speaker2: hot wheels tech trax air stunt challenge set.
speaker3: -hot wheels tech trax, what?
speaker2: air-stunt-challenge-set.
speaker3: i got something even better than that.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: the double wide. but don't mention it to ricky, just in case.
speaker2: yeah, "just in case."
speaker3: this time is for real.

speaker1: is that why you bought calgon bath stuff? 
speaker2: yes it is. we're getting a tub, t.j. it's gonna happen.
speaker1: yeah, right.
speaker2: if you keep that attitude i'll never let you use it.
speaker1: be afraid. be very afraid. what about dad?
speaker2: what about him?
speaker1: what are you gonna do?
speaker2: why, did he call broke yet?
speaker1: no, but maybe he would call if you weren't so bitter.
speaker2: oh, here we go again with saint dad.
speaker1: that's what i mean. you're always on him. "where's your paycheck, do you need a meeting, give me your receipts."
speaker2: he's an addict, t.j.
speaker1: you're still bitter.
speaker2: you gotta help ricky get the tree up tomorrow after school okay?
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: christmas shopping.

speaker1: hi, it's me. leave a message, and maybe i'll call ya back. 
speaker2: hi....it's me...leave a message and i'll call ya' back.
speaker2: hi, it's me. i can't take the call right now, but if it's you, troy, please at least tell me you are alive, because the boys are worried about you.
speaker3: hey, i just got done here. i made two hours overtime fixing one of the snow- making machines. pretty cool, huh? i'll be home late. i'm gonna catch that meeting at 7:30. love you, bye.

speaker1: lila! get up. 
speaker1: they got two people out sick today, so if you get down there you got the job.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: get dressed, i got coffee. let's go! he holds up a paper cup.

speaker1: where is it? 
speaker2: get in, i'll tell you on the way.
speaker2: rita said you quit.
speaker1: she fired me.
speaker2: that's not what she said.
speaker1: well, she should have. i can't see to count the money. i told you that. i come up short half the time.
speaker2: then get some glasses.
speaker1: they make me carsick.
speaker2: gimme a break.
speaker1: so where are we going?
speaker2: the tribal council needs someone to answer phones.
speaker1: no way!
speaker2: why not? you can answer a phone, can't you?

speaker1: not there! not with them. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: i bought it.
speaker2: from who?
speaker1: some white lady.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what do you need a car for?
speaker1: to get to work. so i don't have to walk in the breakdown lane. last week i almost got hit by the plow.
speaker2: you'll live. and you know what i'm talking about.
speaker1: it doesn't have a trunk.
speaker1: all right, all right! i'll go.

speaker1: the customer hands her a credit card. 
speaker2: sorry. didn't go through.
speaker2: that'll be three seventy six.
speaker3: i got exact.

speaker1: do i have any messages? 
speaker1: i can't read this.
speaker2: i think it's a "t.".
speaker1: no, i can't read any of it.
speaker2: i told bernie i couldn't see.
speaker2: nevermind. i'll go.

speaker1: we gotta get extra fluid. 
speaker2: i gotta get back before kmart closes.
speaker1: what for?
speaker2: i got nothing for under the tree.

speaker1: don't you people even take christmas eve off? 
speaker2: mohawks don't celebrate christmas.
speaker1: you could fool me the way they were all lined up at all for a dollar today.
speaker2: those are christians. the converted.
speaker1: from what?
speaker2: from the longhouse ways.

speaker1: daddy is gettin' me that for christmas. 
speaker2: what about santa claus?
speaker1: he's bringing the new house.

speaker1: wait. they're not chinese. 
speaker2: they're "pakis."
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: they're from pakistan.
speaker1: well where's that?

speaker1: i don't know. what difference does it make? 
speaker2: a big difference.
speaker1: if we wait much longer we won't be able to get back across the river.
speaker2: look, i'm not driving just anybody across the border.
speaker1: do you want the money or not?
speaker2: i wanna know what's in the bag.
speaker2: what's in there?
speaker1: they don't understand you.
speaker2: well, if they want to come over here so bad, they ought'a take the time to learn english.
speaker2: just hold on a second.

speaker1: i'll take that. 
speaker2: if we keeps snowing like this we won't be able to get across the river.
speaker1: i just hope these aren't the ones that blow up themselves and everybody with them.

speaker1: a five. 
speaker1: 
speaker2: you gotta stop so i can fill up the wiper fluid.
speaker1: i'm not stoppin'.
speaker2: it's a hundred feet deep out here if we get on black ice
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: nuclear power, poison gas,...you can't tell what they might have in there. i'm not gonna be responsible for that.
speaker1: -hi, i'm gonna be a little late. -i have to work. is ricky asleep? -put him on. -ricky listen to me, he's not coming until you go to sleep.

speaker1: -no. not yet. he's still flyin' over canada okay? he's not even done with canada yet, so he's not coming until you get to sleep. now put your brother on. -i'll be home in a little while, okay? -no, i haven't got it,yet. what's it called again? -hot wheels tech trax air stunt whatever, right, right, i'll get it if i can! -i can't promise t.j. -there are more important things to get for christmas this year. be home in a little while. okay, bye. 
speaker1: you'd think a new house would be enough.

speaker1: ricky, time to eat. 
speaker2: hey t.j., watch this!
speaker1: yeah, that's pretty cool. but it's gonna hurt when you sit down. ricky giggles.
speaker1: now unwrap yourself, it's dinner time.

speaker1: they say there's a bag. 
speaker2: it was too heavy. we had to unload it.

speaker1: the dealer tells the woman in urdu. she becomes 
speaker2: what's the matter with her!?
speaker3: she had something in the bag.
speaker2: what is she saying!?
speaker3: she says her baby. her baby was in the bag.

speaker1: it didn't feel like there was anything in that bag. 
speaker2: we gotta go back.
speaker1: i can't believe they put their baby in a duffle bag.
speaker2: i can't believe you left it out there.
speaker1: if you'd let me search it i would never have taken it-
speaker2: we gotta go back.
speaker1: i know! i know that.

speaker1: that's what you wanted, right? 
speaker2: close enough.
speaker1: thanks man, have a merry one.

speaker1: look, there. tracks. 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: up there.
speaker1: slow down, i don't want to run over it. stop. i think it was here.

speaker1: it's dead. 
speaker2: come on!

speaker1: it's dead. 
speaker2: tap the bottom of his feet.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: that's what they did to get ricky breathing when he was born.
speaker1: i don't want to touch it.
speaker2: well, i can't hold it and drive.

speaker1: i don't think it matters. 
speaker2: at least put him next to your body. that will warm him up.
speaker1: but it's too late.
speaker2: just do it! we can't give it back to her cold.

speaker1:  
speaker2: calm down.

speaker1: oh what do i do? 
speaker2: calm down. just pull over.
speaker1: what if he saw us go by before. to bob's.
speaker2: he's got no reason to stop us, unless you give him one, so keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: what if he searches the car. what do we say about-
speaker2: he won't, just remember you're white.

speaker1: license and registration? 
speaker1: could you step out of the vehicle, ma'am.
speaker2: i wasn't speeding, was i?
speaker1: just step out of the car.

speaker1: did i do something? 
speaker2: ma'am i'm just directing you to step out of the vehicle?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: step around to the back of the vehicle.

speaker1: see that. 
speaker1: your left rear parking light is not illuminated.
speaker2: oh, i didn't know.
speaker1: i'm gonna give you a provisional citation. get this repaired in the next 48 hours and you'll have no problem.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: who's your friend?

speaker1: she looks after my kids when i have to work late. 
speaker2: have an enjoyable holiday.
speaker1: yeah, you, too.

speaker1: what did he want? 
speaker2: just a blown out tail light.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: it's moving.
speaker1: what? are you sure?
speaker2: hello little baby.
speaker1: he was just cold.

speaker1: come on. let's go. 
speaker2: he was dead.
speaker1: he was just cold.
speaker2: he was dead.
speaker1: okay, whatever, you brought him back to life.
speaker2: that was the great spirit, not me.
speaker1: all i know is kmart is closed and i got nothing for under the tree.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: look, i don't have time for that. i can't get deep about every little thing. i just have to keep on going. i only need one more run to have enough for my double.

speaker1: here. 
speaker1: merry christmas or whatever.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: hot wheels.
speaker1: where'd you get it?
speaker2: i called a friend.
speaker1: mitch? is that the friend you called?
speaker2: no, its not.
speaker1: well, i don't want you hanging around him. that kid is bad news.
speaker2: it's not like you were gonna get it.

speaker1: look , mister, i got more important things to worry about than toys. i'm trying to get our doublewide. 
speaker2: oh, yeah. i forgot.
speaker1: hey, you can lose the attitude. anyway, kmart was closed by the time i got off work.
speaker1: what's that smell?
speaker2: popcorn.
speaker1: i told you to be careful with the microwave, didn't i?
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker2: is there a ray eddy here?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: can i speak to you outside for a minute.
speaker3: i haven't gotten the light fixed-
speaker2: it's not about that. i just have a few questions.
speaker3: sure.

speaker1: this is about the woman who was with you. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: how long have you known her?

speaker1: not too long. she looks after my kids. 
speaker2: she's a smuggler.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: wow. that's a shock.
speaker2: yes, well, there is that element on the reservation i'm sure you know.
speaker1: yeah, i've heard about it but i didn't know she was involved.
speaker2: how did you happen to meet her?
speaker1: uh, i think there was a sign for a baby sitter at the wolf mart. that's where i get my gas.
speaker2: i just thought you should be aware of that. she's known to have smuggled illegal immigrants into the country.
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: if i were you i'd find a new baby sitter. you don't want her around young kids.
speaker1: absolutely.
speaker2: well, you have an enjoyable holiday.

speaker1: thanks. you, too. 
speaker2: why is the police man here?
speaker3: shh.
speaker1: t.j. could you come out here for a minute.

speaker1: what did he want? did something happen to dad? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then what did he want?
speaker2: did you have a fire last night?
speaker1: the pipes froze so i fixed `um.
speaker2: you fixed um?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: did you happen to use the blow torch?
speaker2: look at this. we can't live here anymore!
speaker1: it's just a tin crapper.
speaker2: no, it was our house.
speaker1: so, we're gettin' a new one, right?
speaker2: you could have killed yourself and your brother.
speaker1: it's not yours, he gave it to me.
speaker2: put it down.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: put it down.
speaker1: are you gonna shoot me now, too?
speaker2: put that thing down!
speaker1: maybe he didn't like gettin' shot in his own house. maybe that's why he left.

speaker1: that was an accident. 
speaker2: some accident you shot him in the foot.
speaker1: he spent the food money on scratch cards,

speaker1: so, he'd done it before. 
speaker2: gimme that thing.
speaker2: t.j. come on now.
speaker1: you can't have it. it's mine.
speaker2: he was clean for 23 months.
speaker2: i didn't know how else to keep us together. i mean...he's a good dad when he's not gamblin'.
speaker1: yeah, awesome dad. robs us and takes off a week before christmas.

speaker1: the game's over. they're verifying the last winner. 
speaker2: that's okay. i still wanna buy a ticket.
speaker1: i can't sell you one.
speaker2: i got money.

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: i just want to buy some scratch cards.
speaker1: go to wolf mart, they sell `um there. ray walks away. the ticket taker watches her.

speaker1: i quit smuggling. 
speaker2: t.j. set the trailer on fire.
speaker2: he didn't mean to, but the pipes froze and he got that torch out -- which i told him not to do touch when i wasn't there -- and he tried to thaw them out-
speaker1: i got glasses and now i can see up close.
speaker2: there's a hole in my bedroom floor. we gotta move.

speaker1: lila keeps walking. 
speaker2: i just need one more run to get the double.
speaker2: look you can have the acclaim. okay?
speaker3: i don't want it.
speaker2: what is it then?!
speaker2: are you still mad about that baby? `cause it wasn't all my fault, ya' know. i mean who puts their kid in a duffle bag?
speaker2: you're gonna need a lot of money to take care of a one year old baby.
speaker3: i got enough.
speaker2: yeah, but you gotta get him first.
speaker2: i'll help you. you can even borrow my gun.

speaker1: you should see the inside. 
speaker2: how many bedrooms?
speaker1: three. and it's got a jacuzzi tub in the master bathroom.
speaker2: wall to wall carpet?
speaker1: oh yeah. but the best thing is the insulation. the pipes can never freeze.
speaker1: i'll be back. she disappears into the office.

speaker1: ...what i think you'll find with the commodore -- and you'll be the judge -- is that the vinyl wall covering is perfect for small children. there is never a need to repaint or even touch up- 
speaker2: i wanna schedule a delivery.

speaker1: give me just a second. 
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker1: is this all of it?
speaker2: it's three thousand but i want it delivered tomorrow.
speaker1: i told you all or nothing.
speaker2: take it as a deposit. all you have to do is show up. if i don't have the rest you keep it.
speaker1: can't argue with that. you'll have to sign something, though.

speaker1: blow the horn. ray honks the horn. 
speaker2: heat wave!
speaker1: you got a run for us, jimmy?
speaker2: it's pretty slow after christmas. unless you wanna to go off the rez, there's a guy up in montreal who's usually got heads.
speaker1: how far?
speaker2: twenty miles or so. but...you gotta watch out for the mounties and the surete. and...this guy deals in ya' know girls.

speaker1: have you ever been there? 
speaker2: a few times. have you?
speaker1: no, troy didn't like to travel. he liked to work in his shed, mostly.

speaker1: up there. that's it. 
speaker2: can't miss that.

speaker1: oui? 
speaker2: bruno.
speaker3: you looking for a job.
speaker2: no, jimmy called-
speaker3: oh yeah, jimmy. okay.
speaker1: put your hands up.

speaker1: okay we go. 
speaker1: d'is way.
speaker1: d'at your car?
speaker1: open the trunk.
speaker2: we need to get paid, first.
speaker1: oh, yes.
speaker2: you only got six hundred here.
speaker1: you get the rest at drop off.
speaker2: it's six hundred apiece.

speaker1: that's the deal i make with jimmy, now you want to change? 
speaker2: it's twelve hundred.
speaker1: you want to make a problem?
speaker2: let's just go.
speaker3: okay. we'll take them. lila looks at ray.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker3: just open the trunk.

speaker1: you must be the brains of the operation. 
speaker2: turn around!
speaker2: i want the rest.
speaker1: i don't have any more.
speaker2: go get it.
speaker1: give it to her.
speaker3: let's get out of here. i'll give you the rest of the money.
speaker2: no. but thanks.

speaker1: you're gonna get us all killed. 
speaker2: put it there.
speaker2: he shot me.
speaker1: you should'a just taken the money from me?
speaker2: i'm tired of people stealing from me. is it all there?
speaker1: we gotta get outta here, first.
speaker2: just count it and make sure it's all there!
speaker2: is it there?

speaker1: it's all there. 
speaker2: good.
speaker1: slow down a little. we gotta keep it under the speed limit. ray smiles and wipes away the blood.
speaker1: we gotta get off this road.

speaker1: slow down! 
speaker2: i can't.

speaker1: how much farther to the reservation? 
speaker2: just up at the tree line.
speaker1: what the hell? we're on the reservation.
speaker2: they can't arrest us but if they catch us they'll take the money.
speaker1: ray bounces into the woods through the trees.

speaker1: that ice is black out here. 
speaker2: will it hold us?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: ray and lila sit perfectly still. 
speaker2: we gotta crawl out the window.

speaker1: hi mom. 
speaker2: jimmy, i told you not to bring no more half frozen people in here off the river.
speaker1: we just need to borrow your oven, mom.

speaker1: i don't see how i can get any baking done. i'm supposed to be baking 200 doughnuts for pee wee lacrosse and now i have people bleeding and dripping all over my kitchen. 
speaker1: looks like somebody tried to blow your brains out.
speaker1: get outta here, jimmy. they gotta strip down. gimme those jackets.
speaker1: somebody's been beatin' up on you.

speaker1: hi, rosalie. 
speaker2: billy.
speaker1: we have a situation with a couple smugglers. they got chased by the quebec police and crossed the river but their car went in and now the troopers know they're on the rez.
speaker2: who is it?

speaker1: lila littlewolf and some white woman. 
speaker2: what do the troopers want?
speaker1: a surrender of the two illegals and the non-native smuggler. they need an example here.
speaker2: do you know where they are?
speaker1: probably over at velma's.
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: turn them in.
speaker2: what about lila littlewolf?
speaker4: we got our own court system.
speaker2: we don't charge people with smuggling.
speaker3: maybe we should.
speaker4: if we did, we'd have to arrest half the people on the rez.
speaker3: we can expel her.
speaker4: you can't start throwin' mohawks off the rez, rosalie. there's only, what, six thousand of us as it is.
speaker2: she makes the mohawk people look bad.

speaker1: but she has a mohawk son. 
speaker2: she cost us a mohawk son.
speaker1: jake was a big boy. he knew what he was doin'
speaker2: she'll never be anything but a smuggler.
speaker1: we've had smuggling on the rez since al capone.
speaker2: then we'll take a vote.

speaker1: hi, billy. 
speaker2: velma, seen any smugglers tonight?
speaker1: come on, billy, you never bothered with smugglers before.
speaker2: rosalie is worried people are gonna think the mohawks let in terrorists. plus, i got the troopers on my back. they want the illegals and they say there's some white lady with them too. is that true, jimmy?

speaker1: i gotta go. 
speaker1: no. you stay here.
speaker2: hi, lila.
speaker3: hi bernie.
speaker2: you're in a lot of trouble.
speaker2: the council voted to expel you.
speaker3: expel me?
speaker2: for five years. you can appeal, but you'll never be able to change rosalie's mind.

speaker1: they can't do that. 
speaker2: they'll make your life miserable if you try to stay.
speaker1: they've already done that.
speaker2: believe me, it could get even worse.
speaker3: i thought this was all legal on the reservation.
speaker3: look, i gotta get home.
speaker2: if she leaves, they'll turn you in lila. the troopers want somebody.
speaker3: but, she's a mohawk.
speaker2: the chiefs want her out, so there's nothing standing between her and the troopers.
speaker3: listen, my kids got no one but me.
speaker2: if you leave she won't see her son again. ray and bernie stare at each other.
speaker1: let her go.
speaker2: lila, you're giving up on him and he's only one year old.

speaker1: just go. 
speaker2: at least you got family to take care of him, ya' know?

speaker1: he might be better off. 
speaker2: jake wouldn't agree with that.
speaker1: it was all for a new crib. i wanted the baby to have a pretty new crib, not some handmedown. and he wouldn't let me go alone. i was too fat to get behind the steering wheel.
speaker2: he wanted to keep you and little jake safe.
speaker3: it's just a few months, right?
speaker3: i got baby stuff in the shed.

speaker1: get a good used single wide with insulation. insulation is the key thing. versailles will give you a hard time, but that will leave enough for you and the boys to live on for a couple of months. ricky's allergic to penicillin. and you can't feed `em pringles all the time. okay? 
speaker1: okay?
speaker1: but you gotta get there quick, before the police, `cause t.j. will get scared. i don't want him to get scared, you know. ray chokes back her own tears.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: and don't let him jerk you around. versailles, i mean. go with her. okay?
speaker3: sure.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i need his coat.
speaker2: where's his coat?
speaker1: you can't have him.

speaker1: say goodbye to your dudah. 
speaker2: she's gonna kill me for taking this out of her car.

speaker1: how long is it for me. you know if i confess? 
speaker2: as long as they're not on a watch list. four months.
speaker2: i don't think you have much to worry about judging from the look of them, probably brought here to work in the trade.
speaker1: will they get sent back?
speaker2: not necessarily. they can apply for asylum.

speaker1: can i have a cigarette? he lights one for her. she takes it, shaking. 
speaker2: is there somebody i can call for you? to take care of your children.
speaker1: i got somebody.
speaker2: a relative.
speaker1: a friend.
speaker1: but i need to call my kid.
speaker3: hello. hi, mom.
speaker3: -mom are you there? what's wrong? -what kinda trouble? -what did you do? -a smuggler!? holy -are you in jail? -but are you're going to jail!?
speaker3: -yeah, okay. what does that mean? but why? i can take care of him, i do it all the time. but i don't see why we need-?

speaker1: -who? a baby? no way. -yeah i know where the stuff is. it's in the shed, but that's so stupid!. 
speaker1: -okay. bye. he hangs up.
speaker1: you're gonna have to get the little pieces up high -- or he'll eat them.

speaker1: hi, you've reached ray. leave me a message and i'll get back to you just as soon as i can. 
speaker2: ray, are you gonna pick up or not?

