speaker1: now that the war's over, our soldiers get to come home, yes? 
speaker2: some of them. some will be stationed on the rim planets as peace enforcers.
speaker3: i don't understand. why were the independents even fighting us? why wouldn't they look to be more civilized?
speaker2: that's a good question. does anybody want to open on that?
speaker1: i hear they're cannibals.
speaker4: that's only reavers.
speaker5: reavers aren't real.
speaker4: full well they are. they attack settlers from space, they kill them and wear their skins and them for hours and hours --
speaker2: it's true that there are... dangers on the outer planets. so let's follow up on borodin's question. with all the social and medical advancements we can bring to the independents, why would they fight so hard against us?

speaker1: we meddle. 
speaker2: river?
speaker1: people don't like to be meddled with. we tell them what to do, what to think, don't run don't walk we're in their homes and in their heads and we haven't the right. we're meddlesome.
speaker2: gently taking her
speaker3: river, we're not telling people what to think. we're just trying to show them how.

speaker1: she's dreaming. 
speaker2: nightmare?
speaker1: off the charts. scary monsters.
speaker3: let's amp it up. delcium, eight- drop.

speaker1: see, most of our best work is done when they're asleep. we can monitor and direct their subconscious, implant suggestions... 
speaker1: it's a little startling to see, but the results are spectacular. especially in this case. river tam is our star pupil.
speaker2: i've heard that.
speaker1: she's a genius. her mental capacity is extraordinary, even with the side-effects.
speaker2: tell me about them.
speaker1: well, obviously, she's unstable... the neural stripping gives them heightened cognitive reception, but it also destabilizes their own reality matrix. it manifests as borderline schizophrenia... which at this point is the price for being truly psychic.
speaker2: what use do we have for a psychic if she's insane?

speaker1: i don't have to tell you the security potential of someone who can read minds. and she has lucid periods -- we hope to improve upon the... i'm sorry, sir, i have to ask if there's some reason for this inspection. 
speaker2: am i making you nervous?
speaker1: key members of parliament have personally observed this subject. i was told their support for the project was unanimous. the demonstration of her power --
speaker2: how is she physically?
speaker1: like nothing we've seen. all our subjects are conditioned for combat, but river... she's a creature of extraordinary grace.

speaker1: river is suddenly next to him. he jumps a little. 
speaker2: simon.
speaker2: they know you've come.

speaker1: we can't make it to the surface from inside. 
speaker1: find a --

speaker1: get on! 
speaker2: stop.

speaker1: remarkable children. 
speaker2: excuse me! no one is allowed in the records room without my express permission.
speaker1: enter the doctor. forgive me. i prefer to see the event alone, without bias.
speaker2: i need to see your clearance.
speaker1: you're right to insist. i know you've had security issues here.
speaker2: apologies. an operative of the parliament will of course have full cooperation. i'm not sure what... i see no listing of rank, or name.
speaker1: i have neither. like this facility, i don't exist. the parliament calls me in when... when they wish they didn't have to. let's talk about the tams.
speaker2: i assume you've scanned the status logs...

speaker1: river was your greatest success. a prodigy -- a phenomenon. until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you. 
speaker2: it's not quite so simple.
speaker1: i'm very aware of that.
speaker2: he came in with full creds. he beat the ap-scan, the retinal...
speaker1: no, no. of course. the boy spent his fortune developing the contacts to infiltrate this place.
speaker2: gave up a brilliant future in. medicine as well, you've probably read. turned his back on his whole life. madness.
speaker1: madness, no. something a good deal more dangerous. have you looked at this scan carefully? at his face?
speaker1: it's love, in point of fact. he loved his sister and he knew she was in pain. so he took her somewhere safe.
speaker2: why are you here?
speaker1: i'm here because the situation is even less simple than you think. do you know what your sin is, doctor?

speaker1: i. i would be very careful about what you -- 
speaker2: it's pride.
speaker1: key members of parliament have personally observed this subject.
speaker2: key members of parliament. key. the minds behind every diplomatic, military and covert operation in the galaxy, and you put them in a room with a psychic.
speaker1: she was... she read cards, nothing more.
speaker2: it's come to our attention that river became much more unstable, more... disturbed, after you showed her off to parliament. did she see something very terrible in those cards?
speaker1: whatever... secrets she might have accidentally gleaned... it's probable she doesn't even know she knows them. that they're buried beneath --
speaker2: but they are in her. her mind is unquiet. it's the will of the parliament that i kill her. and the brother. because of your sin.

speaker1: you know, in certain older civilized cultures, when men failed as entirely as you have, they would throw themselves on their swords. 
speaker2: well, unfortunately i forgot to bring a sword to --
speaker1: the parliament has no further interest in psychics. they represent a threat to the harmony and stability of our alliance.
speaker2: i would put that down right now if i were you.
speaker1: would you be killed in your sleep, like an ailing pet? whatever your failings, i believe you deserve better than that.

speaker1: young miss, i'll need all the logs- on behavioral modification triggers. we'll have to reach out to river tam, and help her to come back to us. no matter how far out simon has taken her, we can -- 
speaker1: this is a good death. there's no shame in this, in a man's death. a man who's done fine works. we're making a better world. all of them, better worlds.
speaker1: young miss, i need you to get to work now. i think i may have a long way to travel.

speaker1: what was that? 
speaker2: whoah! did you see that -- the ship bucks --
speaker1: was that the primary buffer panel?
speaker2: it did seem to resemble --

speaker1: did the primary buffer panel just fall off my gorramn ship for no apparent reason? 
speaker2: looks like.
speaker1: i thought kaylee checked our entry couplings! i have a very clear memory of it --
speaker2: yeah well if she doesn't give us some extra flow from the engine room to offset the burnthrough this landing is gonna get pretty interesting.
speaker1: define "interesting".
speaker2: "oh oh we're all gonna die?"

speaker1: this is the captain. there's a little problem with our entry sequence; we may experience slight turbulence and then explode. can you shave the vector -- 
speaker2: i'm doing it! it's not enough. kaylee!
speaker1: just get us on the ground!
speaker2: that part'll happen, pretty definitely.

speaker1: we're gonna explode? i don't wanna explode. 
speaker2: jayne, how many weapons you plan on bringing? you only got the two arms...
speaker1: i just get excitable as to choice, like to have my options open.
speaker2: i don't plan on any shooting taking place during this job.
speaker1: well, what you plan and what takes place ain't ever exactly been similar.
speaker2: no grenades. no grenades.
speaker3: are we crashing again?
speaker2: talk to your husband. is the mule prepped?
speaker3: good to go, sir. just loading her up. are those grenades?
speaker1: cap'n doesn't want 'em.

speaker1: we got the primary buffer 
speaker2: everything's shiny, cap'n. not to fret.
speaker1: you told me --
speaker1: you told me the entry couplings would hold for another week!
speaker2: that was six months ago, cap'n.
speaker1: my ship don't crash. if she crashes, you crashed her.

speaker1: doctor. guess i need to get innocked 'fore we hit planetside. 
speaker1: bit of a rockety ride. nothing to worry about.
speaker2: i'm not worried.
speaker1: fear is nothing to be ashamed of, doc.
speaker2: this isn't fear. this is anger.
speaker1: well, it's kinda hard to tell the one from t'other, face like yours.
speaker2: i imagine if it were fear, my eyes would be wider.
speaker1: i'll look for that next time.
speaker2: you're not taking her.
speaker1: no no, that's not a thing i'm interested in talking over with --
speaker2: she's not going with you. that's final.

speaker1: guests? i earn my passage, captain -- 
speaker2: and it's time your little sister learned from your fine example.
speaker1: i've earned my passage treating bullet holes, knife wounds, laser burns...
speaker2: some of our jobs are trickier than others --
speaker1: and you want to put my sister in the middle of that.
speaker2: didn't say 'want'. said 'will'. it's one job, doc. she'll be fine.
speaker1: she's a seventeen year old girl.

speaker1: she's a reader. sees into the truth of things; might see trouble before it's coming. which is of use to me. 
speaker2: and that's your guiding star, isn't it? what's of use.
speaker1: honestly, doctor, i think we may really crash this time anyway.
speaker2: do you understand what i've gone through to keep river away from the alliance?
speaker1: i do, and it's a fact me and mine have been courteous enough to keep to our own selves.
speaker2: are you threatening to --
speaker1: i got one purpose here: keep this boat in the air. i take the jobs i get -- which is less and less, case you ain't been keeping track.
speaker1: every year since the war the alliance pushes just a little further out towards the rim. makes it a chore for naughty men like us to slip about -- and keeping you two on board means working twice as hard to avoid the law. means turning down a score of honest jobs.

speaker1: so here is us, on the raggedy edge. don't push me and i won't push you. 
speaker1: things get gritty i will keep her from the fray, but she's coming. best you get her ready.
speaker1: zoe, is wash gonna straighten this boat out before we get flattened?
speaker2: like a downy feather, sir. nobody flies like my mister.
speaker3: river...
speaker4: i know. we're going for a ride.

speaker1: now, river, you stay behind the others. if there's fighting you drop to the floor or run away. it's okay to leave them to die. 
speaker2: i'm the brains of the operation.
speaker3: we should hit town right during sunday worship. won't be any crowds.
speaker4: if fanty and mingo are right about the payroll, this could look to be a sunny day for us.
speaker1: captain, i'll ask you one last time...
speaker4: doctor, i'm taking your sister under my protection here. if anything happens to her, anything at all, i swear to you i will get very choked up. honestly. there could be tears.
speaker5: don't mind the captain none, simon. i know he'll look out for her.
speaker1: it's amazing. i bring river all the way out to the raggedy edge of the 'verse so she can hide from the alliance by robbing banks.
speaker5: it's just a little trading station. they'll be back 'fore you can spit. not that you spit...

speaker1: what are we hoping to find here that equals the worth of a turd? 
speaker2: alliance payroll. there's peace enforcing squads stationed all about this quadrant. can't use credits out here -- they got to pay their boys in cashy money.
speaker3: something about stealing from the alliance just warms a body like whiskey in winter.
speaker1: shiny. let's be badguys.
speaker2: you ready to go to work, darlin'?
speaker4: there's no pattern to the pebbles here, they're completely random. i tried to count them but you drove too fast. hummingbird.
speaker2: right. great. let's go.

speaker1: hands and knees and heads bowed down! everybody, now! 
speaker1: y'all wanna be looking very intently at your own belly buttons. i see a head start to rise, violence is gonna ensue.
speaker2: looks like this is the place.
speaker1: you've probably guessed we mean to be thieving here, but what we are after is not yours. so let's have no undue fussing.

speaker1: she's locked up. 
speaker2: you know what the definition of a hero is? it's someone who gets other people killed. you can look it up later.
speaker3: this is just a crop moon, don't think you'll find what you --

speaker1: at last. we can retire and give up this life of crime. 
speaker2: is there a fed down there? be truthful.
speaker3: y'all are browncoats, hey? fought for independence?

speaker1: war's long done. we're all just folk now. listen up! we are coming down to empty that vault! 
speaker2: you have to give me your authorization password!

speaker1: repeater. 
speaker2: did sound summat like gunblast... maybe you aught run tell lawman...

speaker1: what the is up? you all right? what's goin' on? 
speaker2: reavers.

speaker1: leg's good, it'll bleed plenty and we avoid any necessary organs... 
speaker2: i was thinking more of a graze..
speaker1: well you don't want it to look like you just gave up...

speaker1: every heist, he's gotta start yelling my name -- 
speaker2: mal! reavers! the girl's pitchin' a fit. they're here or they're comin' soon.
speaker1: does that open from the inside?

speaker1: whah -ah- yes... 
speaker2: you get everyone upstairs in there and you seal it. long as you got air you don't open up, you understand?
speaker1: i -- buh i -- mal is in his face, dark and huge:

speaker1: zoe take the wheel -- 
speaker2: you see 'em? anybody see 'em?
speaker3: take me with you!
speaker1: get in the vault with the others --
speaker3: i can't stay here! please!
speaker1: it's too many. drive, zoe.

speaker1: how come they ain't blowing us out of the air? 
speaker2: they wanna run us down. the up- close kill.
speaker3: they want us alive when they eat us.
speaker1: boy, sure would be nice if we had some grenades, don'tchya think?
speaker4: wash, baby can you hear me?

speaker1: we're not gonna reach you in time. 
speaker2: just keep moving, honey. we're coming to you.

speaker1: grab on! 
speaker2: i won't get et! you shoot me if they take me!
speaker2: well don't shoot me first!

speaker1: get some distance on 'em. you come to the flats, i want you to swing round. gonna try a barn swallow. 
speaker1: j simon! open the loading dock!

speaker1: okay, baby, we've talked this through... 
speaker2: talkin' ain't doin'.
speaker1: don't slow down!

speaker1: river? 
speaker2: i swallowed a bug.
speaker3: are you okay?
speaker4: is he okay?

speaker1: you stupid, selfish, son of a --- 
speaker2: i'm a hair's breadth from riddling you with holes, doctor --
speaker1: "one simple job! she'll be fine!"
speaker2: she is fine! except for bein' still crazy, she's the picture of health!
speaker3: wasn't for river, we'd probably be left there. she felt 'em coming.
speaker1: never again. you understand me?

speaker1: seems i remember a talk about you giving orders on my boat. 
speaker2: well sleep easy 'cause we're off your boat. just as soon as river gets her share of the "bounty".
speaker3: well let's not do anything hasty...
speaker1: no, shiny! i'm sick a' carrying tourists anyhow. we'll be on beaumonde in ten hours time, you can pick up your earnings and be on your merry. meantime you do your job. patch up my crew.
speaker4: he didn't lie down. they never lie down.
speaker5: no, i think things'll glide a deal smoother for us without river and simon on board... but how long do you think they'll last?
speaker1: doc made his call. they's as babes in a basket when we took 'em in; we sheltered 'em plenty. man has to cut loose, learn to stand on his own.
speaker5: like that man back in town?
speaker1: i had to shoot him. what the reavers woulda done to him before they killed him...

speaker1: i know. that was a piece a' mercy. but before that, him begging us to bring him along... 
speaker2: we couldn't take the weight.
speaker1: you know that for certain
speaker2: mule won't run with five. i shoulda dumped the girl? or you?
speaker2: well, jayne...
speaker1: coulda tossed the payload.
speaker2: and go to fanty and mingo with air in our mitts, tell 'em "here's your share"? they'd set the dogs on us in the space of a twitch, and there we are back in mortal peril. we get a job, we gotta vo make good.
speaker1: sir, i don't disagree on any particular point, it's just... in the time of war, we woulda never left a man stranded.
speaker2: maybe that's why we lost.

speaker1: kaylee, are you ever gonna put that capture down? 
speaker2: we gotta have records of everything. a bona fide companion entertained clients on this very ship! in this very bed!
speaker2: for one sweet second, we was almost classy.
speaker1: 4 you promised to help me pack.
speaker2: honest, inara, why do you have to leave?
speaker3: i do not get it. how's a guy get so wrong?

speaker1: ain't logical. cuttin' on his own face, rapin' and murdering -- i mean, i'll kill a man in a fair fight... or if i think he's gonna start a fair fight, or if he bothers me, or if there's a woman, or i'm gettin' paid -- mostly only when i'm gettin' paid. but these reavers... last ten years they just show up like the boageyman from stories. eating people alive? where does that get fun? 
speaker2: shepherd book said they was men that reached the edge of space., saw a vasty nothingness and just went bibbledy over it.
speaker1: hell, i been to the edge. just looked like more space.
speaker2: i don't know. people get awful lonely in the black. like to get addlepated ourselves, we stay on this boat much longer. captain'll drive us all off, one by one.
speaker1: you're just in a whinge cuz that prissy doc is finally disembarking. me i says good riddance. he never belonged here, and his sister's no saner than one of them reavers.
speaker2: that ain't even so! river's a dear heart and a boon to this crew! you just don't like her 'cause she can read your mind and everything you think is mean.
speaker1: well, there is that.

speaker1: her and simon could have a place here. now they're leaving us. just like shepherd book. 
speaker1: just like inara...

speaker1: the girls. they've learned more from you these last months than the rest of us could show them in two years. 
speaker2: they're very sweet. but they're not companions.
speaker1: you've no hope for them? junk the lot, start anew?

speaker1: on sihnon we started training at twelve. years of discipline and preparation before the physical act of pleasure was even mentioned. most of these girls -- 
speaker2: they're all of good family, the highest academic standards --
speaker1: control. was the first lesson. and the last and these worlds are not like the central planets. there is barbarism dressed up in the most civil weeds. men of the highest rank who don't know the difference between a companion and a common whore. it's unsafe.
speaker2: all the more reason the girls look to you. you came out here alone, before the alliance ever thought to establish a house this remote. you've seen so much. you're a figure of great romance to them. 4d inara great romance has nothing to do with being a companion, sheydra.
speaker2: i'm not the one who had a torrid affair with a pirate.
speaker1: a who? with a what?
speaker2: it's the talk of the house. the girls all trade stories in the dorms at night.
speaker1: i didn't... have a pirate...

speaker1: in one of the stories you make love in a burning temple. i think that's my favorite. 
speaker2: this is unbearable. captain reynolds is no pirate; he's a petty thief. and he never laid a finger on me. all he ever did was rent me a shuttle and be very annoying.

speaker1: a year on his shuttle and he never laid a finger on you. no wonder you left. 
speaker2: i left because -- go away. we're no longer friends. you're a stranger to me now.
speaker1: 104 i do love to watch you boil. don't worry. the stories will fade. and your captain reynolds has probably gotten himself blown up by this time.
speaker2: yes. that would be just like him.

speaker1: kaylee you look the captain in the eye, know who you're dealing with. 
speaker2: ã¢â€â¢ i wish there was...
speaker3: you shouldn't aughta be so clean. it's a dead giveaway you don't belong, you always gotta be tidy. don't pay anybody in advance. and don't ride in anything with a capissen 38 engine, they fall right out of the sky.
speaker4: kaylee.
speaker4: river... do you want to stay with them?
speaker5: it's not safe.
speaker4: no, i fear it's not safe anymore.
speaker6: for them.

speaker1: it's not my fault the doc's got no stomach for rim living -- 
speaker2: it is entirely and for all your fault! if you'd given simon a moment, just a moment where he didn't think you were gonna throw them off or turn them in, he might've --
speaker1: what? swept you into his cleanly arms? made tidy love to you?
speaker2: as they continue
speaker3: don't you dare joke! you know how much i pined on simon. and him fair sweet on me, i well believe, but he's so worried about being found out --
speaker4: captain didn't make 'em fugitives.
speaker2: but he coulda made 'em family! steada driving them off. steada keeping simon from seein' i was there, when i carried such a torch and we coulda -- goin' on a year now i ain't had nothin' twixt my nethers weren't run on batteries!

speaker1: oh i can't know that! 
speaker2: 40 i could stand to hear a little more...
speaker3: if you had a care for anybody's heart you woulda --
speaker1: you knew he was gonna leave. we never been but a way station to those two. and how do you know what he feels? he's got river to worry on but he still coulda shown you... if i truly wanted someone bad enough, wouldn't be a thing in the 'verse could stop me from going to her.
speaker3: tell that to inara.
speaker4: 4 domestic troubles?
speaker5: domestic troubles?
speaker4: 'cause we don't wanna interrupt.
speaker5: a man should keep his house in order.
speaker1: mingo. fanty.

speaker1: pointing at his 
speaker2: he's mingo.
speaker3: he's fanty. you're mingo.
speaker1: ghahh! how is it you always know?
speaker3: fanty's prettier. feel to do some business?
speaker1: bit crowded, isn't it? as you see, we come unencumbered by thugs.
speaker3: which means at least four of the guys already in here are yours. all's one. i'll just keep jayne with me.
speaker4: sir, are you sure you don't --

speaker1: go. go get yourselves a nice romantic meal. 
speaker2: those are my two favorite words! honey... "meal..."
speaker3: quite a crew you've got.

speaker1: yeah, they're a fine bunch of ruebens. 
speaker2: how you keep them on that boat is the subject of much musing tween me and fanty.
speaker3: we go on and on.
speaker1: so i'm noticing. is there a problem i don't know of? you got 25% of a sweet take kissing your foot, how come we're not dispersing?
speaker3: our end is forty, precious.
speaker4: my muscular buttocks it's forty --
speaker2: it is as of now. find anyone around going cheaper.
speaker5: find anyone around going near a sorry lot like you in the first instance. angle: river has entered, is looking about.
speaker3: you're unlikable, mal. you got no respect for us above you, you got enemies in every quadrant, and your ship's older than the starting point of time. you's charity cases to such as us.

speaker1: well here's a foul thought. i conjured you two were incompetent; sent us out not knowing there were v0 reavers about. now i'm thinking you picked us out because you did. 
speaker2: that were a sign of faith, boy. and it doesn't affect our forty per. danger is, after all, your business.
speaker3: reavers ain't business, double

speaker1: river... 
speaker2: v0 whuhuh?
speaker2: gorrammit, girl, it's me!
speaker3: eta kooram nah smech!
speaker1: i think maybe we ought to leave.

speaker1: hello again. yes, it's me. i'm glad you've finally asked for me. 
speaker2: we got a pos on a retinal -- man carrying her out is malcolm reynolds, captains a firefly-class transport ship, "serenity". bound by law five times, smuggling, tariff dodge... not convicted.
speaker1: the ship. the name of the ship.
speaker3: crossref. malcolm reynolds. serenity.
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: serenity valley. bloodiest battle of the entire war. the independents held the valley for seven weeks, two of them after their high command had surrendered. 68% casualty rate.
speaker2: of course, sir, i just didn't --
speaker1: there.

speaker1: if the feds ever bothered to crossref justice files with war records... yes. our mr. reynolds was a sergeant, 57th overlanders. volunteer. fought at serenity till the very last. this man is an issue. this man hates us. 
speaker2: first mate zoe washburn, formerly corporal zoe alleyne, also in the 57th. career army, looks like.
speaker1: she's followed him far... give me the crew, registered passengers -- our captain is a passionate man, no room there for subtlety. he's bound to have some very obvious...
speaker1: -40 .weakness...

speaker1: may i see her? 
speaker2: she's still napping just now. and i believe you've got some storytelling to do.

speaker1: we're out of atmo, plotted for haven. no one following as of yet. 
speaker2: haven? we're gonna see shepherd book?
speaker3: we got to lay low. and i could fair use some spiritual guidance right about now. i am a lost lamb; what in happened back there?
speaker1: start with the part where jayne gets knocked out by a ninety pound girl. 'cause i don't think that's ever getting old.
speaker4: do we know if anyone was killed?
speaker3: it's likely. i know she meant to ad kill me 'fore the doc put her to sleep, which how exactly does that work anyhow?
speaker5: safeword.
speaker5: the people who helped me break river out -- they had intel that river and the other subjects were being embedded with behavioral conditioning. they taught me a safeword, in case... something happened.
speaker2: not sure i get it.
speaker5: a phrase that's encoded in her brain, that makes her fall asleep.

speaker1: well don't say it! moo zoe it only works on her, jayne. 
speaker1: oh. well, now i know that.
speaker2: "in case something happened."
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you feel to elaborate on what that something might be? i mean they taught you that fancy safeword, they must've figured she was gonna, what -- start uncontrollably crocheting?
speaker3: they never said what --
speaker2: and you never did ask.
speaker2: eight months. eight months you had her on my boat knowing full well she might go monkeyshit at the wrong word and you never said a thing --
speaker3: i brought her out here so they couldn't get to her, i don't even know how they --
speaker2: my ship. my crewi you had a gorramn timebomb living with us!

speaker1: what if she went off in the middle woo of dinner, or in bunk with kaylee, did that give you a moment's pause? 
speaker2: i thought she was getting better.
speaker3: and i thought they was gettin' off! didn't we have a intricate plan how they was gonna be not here anymore?
speaker4: we couldn't leave them now...
speaker3: no, now that she's a... killer woman we ought be bringin' 'em tea and dumplings! in earnest, mal: why'd you bring her back on?

speaker1: may i see her. 
speaker2: she goes woolly again, we're gonna have to put a bullet to her.

speaker1: it's crossed my mind. 
speaker2: can i make a suggestion that doesn't involve violence, or is this the wrong crowd?

speaker1: honey... 
speaker2: v0 fanty and mingo might be coming hard down on us, or the laws... or maybe nobody could be bunged about a little social brawl. we need to get our bearings. i think we need to talk to mr. universe.

speaker1: oh, this is good. this is... 
speaker1: .she's beating up all the burly men and i'm having a catharsis, it's happening right now, you guys always bring me the very best violence. you think you're in a hot place?
speaker2: that's what we're looking to learn. is there any follow up, a newswave...

speaker1: there is no "news", there's the truth of the signal, what i see, and there's the puppet theatre the v0 parliament's jesters foist on the somnambulant public. monkey taught to say the word "monkey" -- lead story on 32 planets. but the slum riots on hera, not a -- 
speaker2: what about this? did this make the... puppet theatre?
speaker1: no sir. and no lawforce flags, either -- i hadda go into the security feed direct...
speaker2: you can do that?
speaker1: can't stop the signal, mal. everything goes somewhere and i go everywhere. security feeds are a traipse to access -- and i wasn't the first one in, this has prints on it -- oh! look at her go! a0 everyone is getting bruises and contusions. contoooosions.
speaker3: so somebody else has been fed this. that doesn't like me too well.
speaker1: zoe, you sultry minx, stop falling in love with me. you're just gonna embarrass yourself. i have a commitment to my lovebot, it was a very beautiful ceremony, lenore wrote her own vows, i cried like a baby, a hungry, angry baby. and she falls asleep. which, she would be sleepy.

speaker1: can you go back? see if anybody spoke with her 'fore she acted up, -40 made any kind of contact with her... 
speaker1: miranda...? go back further.
speaker2: no..
speaker1: um... please?

speaker1: friends and potential lovers, i 
speaker2: have good news and i have the other kind. good is you're very smart. someone is talking to her.
speaker3: the oaty bar?
speaker4: subliminal. it's a subliminal message broadwaved to trigger her.
speaker1: i been seeing this code pop up all over, last few weeks. and i cannot crack it. it's alliance and it's high military, so here then is the bad. someone has gone to enormous trouble to find your little friend. and found her they have.

speaker1: they're afraid of me. 
speaker2: i'm sorry...
speaker1: they should be. what i will show them... oh
speaker2: it's okay, it's okay...
speaker1: show me off like a dog, old men covered in blood, it never touched them but they're drowning in it... so much loss... i don't know what i'm saying. i never know what i'm saying...
speaker2: you said something. when you were triggered, do you remember? the captain saw you say something on the feed...
speaker1: miranda.
speaker2: miranda.
speaker1: ask her. she'll show you all.

speaker1: show us what? who is miranda? 
speaker1: am i... talking to miranda now? nwã¯â¿â½ she shoots him a look.
speaker2: i'm not a multiple, dumbo.
speaker1: no. right. but i think somehow when they triggered you it brought this up, this memory --
speaker2: it isn't mine. the memory. i didn't bring it and i shouldn't have to carry it, it isn't mine.
speaker2: don't make me sleep again.
speaker1: i won't.
speaker2: put a bullet to me. bullet in the brain pan, squish.
speaker1: don't say that. not ever. we'll get through this.
speaker2: things are going to get much much worse.
speaker1: well, the captain hasn't tossed us in the airlock, so i'd say we're --
speaker2: he has to see. more than anyone... he has to see what he doesn't want to.
speaker1: river. what will miranda show us.

speaker1: death. 
speaker2: whose death?

speaker1: forgive what you can, and send me on my path. i will walk on, until you bid me rest. 
speaker2: hope that ain't for me, shepherd.
speaker1: it's prayer for the dead.
speaker2: then i really hope it ain't for me.
speaker1: it's for the men river might have killed in that bar.
speaker2: weren't river that did it, you know that. somebody decided her brain was just another piece of property to take, fenced it right vd up.
speaker1: you got a plan?
speaker2: hiding ain't a plan?
speaker1: it'll do you for a spell, and the folks here'll be glad of the extra coin...
speaker2: .but they'll be coming. alliance is after this girl with a powerful will. i look to hear the tromp of their boots any moment.

speaker1: you won't. this isn't a palms-up military mw run, mal. no reports broadwaved, no warrants... much as they want her, they want her hid. that means closed file. means an operative, which is trouble you've not known. 
speaker2: i coulda left her there.

speaker1: not your way, mal. 
speaker2: i have a way?
speaker2: is that better than a plan?
speaker1: you can play the thug all you want, but there's more to you than you're ever like to 'fess.
speaker3: you just think that 'cause my eyes is all sorrowful and pretty.
speaker1: only one thing is gonna walk you through this, mal. belief.
speaker3: sermons make me sleepy, shepherd. i ain't looking for help from on high. that's a long wait for a train don't come.

speaker1: sorta man they're like to send believes hard. kills and never asks why. 
speaker2: it's of interest to me how much you seem to know about that world.
speaker1: i wasn't born a shepherd, mal.
speaker2: have to tell me about that some time.
speaker1: no i don't.
speaker1: sideways.

speaker1: river? 
speaker1: river, you look tired. i think everybody's a little tired by now; why don't we all lie down.
speaker1: a little peace and quiet will make everything better.
speaker2: no... vao teacher river. do as you're told. it's going to be fine. lie down.

speaker1: whuh huh nuhwhat? 
speaker2: mal! you up? got a wave. i'm a bounce it down to you.

speaker1: mal. i uh, is this a bad time 
speaker2: good as any.
speaker3: please tell me you're wearing pants.
speaker2: naked as the day i come cryin'.
speaker3: cold. it's autumn here.
speaker2: still at the training house?
speaker3: right where you left me.
speaker2: i remember it as nice enough.
speaker3: it is that. what about you?

speaker1: oh. thank you, i... i guess we have something of a problem here. 
speaker2: you could use a gun hand?
speaker1: i'm hoping not. but if you were close at all, you -- the crew -- could take your ease here a while... and there'd be payment...
speaker2: payment is never not a factor. i could sound out the crew... this pot like to boil over soon?
speaker1: soon. not right away.
speaker2: well, it would be, i mean i would like to... kaylee's been missing you something fierce --

speaker1: i miss her too. i even miss my shuttle, occasionally. 
speaker2: yeah, you left a... got some of your stuff in a trunk, never did get a chance to drop it off.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i didn't look through the...

speaker1: inara smiles blandly, nods. an awkward beat. 
speaker2: well, it's kind of late where i'm at. i'll send a wave as soon as i can.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker4: inara. nice to see her again.
speaker5: so, trap?
speaker2: trap.
speaker5: we goin' in? moo mal it ain't but a few hours out...
speaker4: yeah, but, remember the part where it's a trap?
speaker2: if that's the case, then inara's already caught in it. she wouldn't set us up willing. might be we got a shot at seeing who's turning these wheels. we go in.
speaker6: how can you be sure inara don't just wanna see you? sometimes people have feelings -- i'm referring here to people...
speaker2: y'all were watching, i take it.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: 140 you see us fight?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: trap.

speaker1: we're about seventy miles from the training house. and nobody on radar... if the alliance is about, they're laying low. 
speaker2: they're about. find us a home. i'll take the shuttle in closer. zoe, ship is yours.
speaker2: remember: if anything happens to me, or you don't hear from me within the hour... you take this ship and you come and rescue me.
speaker3: what? and risk my ship?
speaker2: i mean it. it's cold out there.

speaker1: dear buddha, please send me a pony, and a plastic rocket, and -- 
speaker2: mal! what are you doing here?
speaker1: you invited me.
speaker3: i never thought for a second you'd be stupid enough to come!
speaker1: well that makes you kind of a tease, doesn't it?
speaker3: you knew my invitation wasn't on the level --
speaker1: which led me to the conclusion that you must be in some trouble.
speaker3: i'm fine! i'm. giddy.
speaker1: for a woman schooled in telling men what they wanna hear, you ain't much of a liar.
speaker3: mal, you cannot handle this man.

speaker1: i have to say, i'm impressed that you would come for her yourself. lwã¯â¿â½ and that you would make it this far in that outfit. 
speaker2: i can be very graceful when i need to.
speaker1: i've no doubt.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: i'm praying for you, mal.
speaker1: that's very thoughtful. but i mean it when i say you're not in any danger.
speaker2: speak your piece.
speaker1: i think you're beginning to understand how dangerous river tam is.
speaker2: she is a mite unpredictable. mood swings, of a sort.
speaker1: it's worse than you know.
speaker2: it usually is.
speaker1: that girl will rain destruction down on you and your ship. she's an albatross, captain.

speaker1: way i remember it, albatross was a ship's good luck... til some killed it. yes, i've read a poem. try not to faint. 
speaker2: i've seen your war record. i know how you must feel about the alliance.
speaker1: you really don't.
speaker2: fair to say. but i have to hope you understand you can't beat us.
speaker1: i got no need to beat you. i just wanna go my way.
speaker2: and you can do that, once you let me take the girl back home. give me the opportunity to help you.
speaker1: all i gotta do is let you take one more thing away from me. i've had a lot of things taken in my time. and it may just be that this is one too many.
speaker2: this psychotic, potentially murderous girl who can't have the slightest awareness of your protection. this is where you "draw the line".
speaker1: well i'm a whimsical soul.
speaker2: there's a number of lives that hang in the balance here. lives under your care. are they as whimsical as yourself?

speaker1: i got no notion that i'm being heroical at all. any more than i think you're really just a harmless bureaucrat come to help me out. you move like a killer. 
speaker2: i have a warship in deep orbit, captain. we locked on to serenity's pulse beacon the moment you hit atmo. i can speak a word and send a missile to that exact location inside of three minutes.
speaker1: you do that, best make peace with your dear and fluffy lord.
speaker2: pulse beacon.
speaker1: advice from an old tracker: you j wanna find someone, use your eyes.
speaker2: how long do you think you can really run from us?
speaker1: oh, a jack-rabbit, me. 'sides, i never credited the alliance with an over-abundance of brains. and if you're the best they got...
speaker2: captain reynolds, i should tell you so that you don't waste your time: you can't make me angry.
speaker3: oh please. spend an hour with him.

speaker1: i need her, captain. river is... my purpose and i will gather her to me. the brother as well. whatever else happens is incidental. in the greater scheme. 
speaker2: why is it that the greater scheme always makes everything not that great?
speaker1: i want to resolve this like civilized men. i'm not threatening you. i'm unarmed.
speaker2: great!
speaker1: i am of course wearing full body armor. i'm not a moron.
speaker2: no back up? we're making an awful ruckus...
speaker1: they'll come when they're needed.
speaker2: i'd start whistling.
speaker1: captain, what do you think is going to happen here?

speaker1: nothing here is what it seems. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: he's not the plucky hero. the alliance isn't some evil empire.
speaker2: and that's not incense.

speaker1: .i had him... 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i think that i was winning!

speaker1: grenade! 
speaker2: hang on to something.
speaker3: 4 you sure you remember how it -- he nearly falls over as:

speaker1: i told you to hang on. 
speaker2: i'm fine...

speaker1: forget the pulse beacon, there has to be another way to track the ship -- get a read on the nav sat. it's a registered transport, you must be able to locate -- 
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: have you found a nav sat trajectory?
speaker2: sir... we've found seven. the operative looks more unhappy than angry.
speaker1: does he think this is a game?

speaker1: why, 'cause this guy beat up mal? 
speaker2: he didn't beat me up --
speaker3: because he's a believer.

speaker1: i honestly think the only reason we haven't been blown out of the air is that he needs to see her. 
speaker2: needs to see her why?
speaker1: i'm uncertain. i would say to be sure of the kill, but... i just know he'll kill us all to get to her.
speaker3: so no hope of a reward, huh?
speaker4: did he mention a deal of any kind?

speaker1: give the two of them up. go my way. 
speaker2: which you was all ready to do not a day ago. what went sour?
speaker1: cutting them loose ain't the same as handing them over.
speaker2: that so? 'cause the corpse i'm about to become is having trouble telling the difference.
speaker3: did he say anything about a "miranda"?
speaker4: what is that?
speaker1: don't know who or what, but it's on river's mind. conjure it might be the reason he's after her.
speaker4: you think maybe it poses some kind of threat to the alliance?
speaker5: do we care? are we caring about that?
speaker2: you dumbass hogs, the only people she's a threat to is us on this boat!

speaker1: look, we get back to haven in a 'r/ few hours time -- 
speaker2: hiding under the shepherd's skirts, that's a manful scheme --
speaker1: you wanna run this ship?
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: well you can't!
speaker2: do a sight better job'n you. getting us lashed over a couple of strays... no offense, doc, i think it's noble as a grape the way you look to river, but she ain't my sister and she ain't your crew. oh, and neither is she exactly helpless! so where's it writ we gotta lay down our lives for her, which is what you've steered us toward.
speaker1: i didn't start this.
speaker2: no, the alliance starts the war -- and then you volunteer. battle of serenity, mal: besides zoe here, how many -- -- i'm talkin' at you -- how many men in your platoon came out of there alive?
speaker3: you wanna leave this room.

speaker1: you're right i do. 
speaker2: this isn't the war, mal.
speaker3: are you telling me that because you think i don't know --
speaker2: you came to the training house looking for a fight.
speaker3: i came looking for you.
speaker2: i just want to know who i'm dealing with. i've seen too many versions of you to be sure.
speaker3: i start fighting a war i guarantee you'll see something new.

speaker1: we'll get off. river and i'll get off at haven and find some -- 
speaker2: nobody's saying that.
speaker3: nobody besides jayne is saying that.
speaker4: mal.

speaker1: but you fog things up. you always have -- you spin me about. i wish like you was elsewhere. 
speaker2: i was.

speaker1: no trouble now, little crazy person... we're going for a nice 
speaker2: shuttle ride --

speaker1: she's sealed off the bridge. i do not like her there. 
speaker2: cap'n!
speaker3: check the shuttles. she coulda 40 snuck in.

speaker1: how can it be there's a whole planet called miranda and none of us knowed that? 
speaker2: because there isn't one. it's a blackrock. uninhabitable. terraforming didn't hold, or somesuch. few settlers died.
speaker3: i had to show them. i didn't know if you were going to make me sleep.
speaker4: you could've asked...

speaker1: wait a tick, yeah! some ten years back, before the war. there was call for workers to settle on miranda, my daddy talked about going. i should've recalled... 
speaker2: but there's nothing about it on the cortex -- history, astronomy... it's not in there.
speaker3: half of writing history is hiding the truth. there's something on this rock the alliance doesn't want known.
speaker4: that's right at the edge of the burnham quadrant, right?

speaker1: whoah, no, no -- 
speaker2: that's a bad notion --
speaker1: honey...
speaker2: i got it, baby.
speaker1: show them the bad...
speaker2: this is us, see? and here's miranda. all along here, this dead space in between, that's reaver territory.
speaker1: they just float out there, sending out raiding parties --
speaker2: maybe a hundred ships. and more every year. you go through that you're signing up to be a banquet.
speaker1: i'm on board with the run and hide scenario -- and we are just about...

speaker1: shepherd? shepherd book! 
speaker2: get the doc.
speaker3: shepherd... don't move.
speaker4: won't go far...
speaker3: shouldn't've been you. i'm so sorry, it was... they should've hit us. they should've hit me.
speaker4: that crossed my mind.
speaker4: i shot him down --
speaker3: i seen.

speaker1: i killed the ship... that killed us. not... very christian of me. 
speaker2: you did what's right.
speaker1: coming from you, that means... almost nothing... hnaah! ah, i'm long gone...
speaker2: doc'll bring you round. i look to be bored by many more sermons 'fore you slip -- don't move --
speaker1: can't... order me around, boy.
speaker2: yes you are.
speaker1: you... it's on you now... all this death, this you have to find a course. this can't mean nothing. river... you have to...
speaker2: come on, keep it up --
speaker1: i don't care what you believe! just... believe it. whatever you have to... his breathing becomes laboured. hitched.

speaker1: how come they ain't waiting? they know'd we was coming, how come they only sent one? 
speaker2: zoe realizes the answer, turns to wash.
speaker3: get on the cortex. wave the sanchez brothers, li shen -- anyone whose ever sheltered us after a heist. tell them to get out. get out now.

speaker1: v0 i'm sorry. but i cannot let you hide and i cannot let you run. things become... extreme. and we wish for another way. 
speaker2: don't talk at me like a righteous man. you are a killer of children.
speaker1: when wanted pharaoh to release his people from -- you know the story? he didn't ask. he sent his plagues down upon egypt. that's me, captain. the path to peace is paved with corpses. it's always been so.
speaker2: so me and mine got to lie down and

speaker1: i'm not going to live there. how could you think -- there's no place for me there, any more than 40 there is for you. malcolm, i'm a monster. what i do is evil, i've no illusions about it. but it must be done. 
speaker2: why? do you know why?
speaker1: it's not my place to ask.
speaker2: you will never see river tam. i'm telling you this.
speaker1: maybe not. but you'll keep her close now, and when i blow serenity out of the air, this will be ended. you're so terribly out of your depth, captain. your old boat can't take the pressure.
speaker2: she ain't buckled yet. and the 40 only reason you're talking such a lot is you can't get a fix on us.
speaker1: yes, your scrambler's code is too old for our seekers. you love that, yes? the small triumph over modernity. you really are the noble savage.
speaker2: nobody -- ever -- calls me noble.
speaker1: but that's what's going to kill you, malcolm. nobility. it confuses your text, which is self-interest. and sin.
speaker2: only- many-i-know-who still --bel i-eved- in sin just died by your hand.
speaker1: what do you believe in?

speaker1: not a solitary thing. 
speaker2: if that were true, you'd be nothing more than a reaver.
speaker2: but then, maybe you're not that far from --

speaker1: get these bodies together. 
speaker2: we got time for gravedigging?
speaker1: zoe, you and simon are gonna rope v0 'em together. five or six of 'em. i want them laid out on the nose of our ship.
speaker3: are you insane?
speaker4: what do you mean, the bodies...
speaker1: kaylee, i need you to muck the reactor core, just enough to leave a trail and make it read like we're flying without containment, not enough to fry us.
speaker4: these people are our friends --
speaker1: kaylee, you got a day's work to do and two hours to do it.

speaker1: mal jayne, you and wash hoist up that cannon mount. goes right on top. 
speaker2: piece or two of the other ship, stick it on. any place you can tear hull without inner breach, do that too. and we're gonna need paint. we're gonna need red paint.

speaker1: sir. do you really mean to turn our home into an abomination so we can make a suicidal attempt at passing through reaver space? 
speaker2: i mean to live. i mean for us to live. the alliance won't have that, so we go where they won't follow.
speaker3: v0 balls, there's no way we're going out there!
speaker4: what's the point of living if you sink to the level of a savage --

speaker1: please, we should talk this over -- 
speaker2: i ain't takin' orders from a man has lost his brainstem -- , -mal pule-s-his- in his face, steps back, hand on his.

speaker1: this is how it works. anybody doesn't wanna fly with me anymore, this is your port of harbour. there's a lot of fine ways to die. i'm not waiting for the alliance to choose mine. 
speaker1: i mean to confound those killers, and take my shot at getting to miranda, maybe finding out what all i'm dying for. that's my theme now. so i hear a word out of any of you that ain't helping me out or taking your leave i will shoot you.
speaker1: get to work.

speaker1: mal. 
speaker2: didn't see you.
speaker3: i figured that.
speaker2: anything of use in there?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: you don't have to stay in the shuttle, you know. there's empty rooms, if you wanna sleep awhile.
speaker1: you think anyone's set to sleep? simon's portioning out overdoses of morphine, just in case.
speaker2: cheerful fellow. did you really miss this place?
speaker1: sometimes... not so much right now.
speaker2: why did you leave?
speaker1: why didn't you ask me not to?

speaker1: dissatisfied, mal rises. 
speaker2: i, uh, i'd better go check on the vw crew. see how the inevitable mutiny is coming along.

speaker1: every reading i'm getting says normal. oceans, land masses... no tectonic instability or radiation. 
speaker2: yeah, but no power, either.
speaker3: nothing at all?
speaker2: wait. something. might be a beacon, but it's awful weak.
speaker3: find it.

speaker1: gravity's earthnorm. 
speaker2: 02 levels check, pressure... if there's anything wrong the scanner isn't reading it.
speaker3: well something sure as ain't right...
speaker4: --ai-n-lt the settlement-

speaker1: no entry wound, fractures... 
speaker2: poison?

speaker1: got another one! 
speaker1: they's all just sittin'. didn't crash...
speaker1: couple more here... 0 0 orpse _of_aman is

speaker1: kaylee... come this way. come here. don't -- but she looks -- 
speaker2: gaaaaaaoh --
speaker3: how come they're preserved?
speaker4: place must've gone hermetic when the power blew. sealed 'em.
speaker2: what're they doing? what's everybody doing?
speaker1: there's no discoloration, nobody's doubled over or showing signs of pain...
speaker4: there's gasses that kill painless, right?
speaker5: but they didn't fall down. none of them. they just lay down.
speaker1: more than anything, it looks like starvation.
speaker4: anybody want to bet there's plenty of food around?
speaker5: they just lay down...

speaker1: , make them stop, they're everywhere, every city every house every room, they're all inside me, i can hear them all and they're saying nothing! get up! please, get them up! , please make me a stone... 
speaker2: she's starting to damage my calm.
speaker3: jayne --
speaker2: she's right! everybody's dead! this whole world is dead for no reason!
speaker4: let's get to the beacon.

speaker1: -- just a few of the images we've recorded, and you can see it isn't.. it isn't what we thought. there's been no war here, and no terraforming event. the environment is stable. it's the pax, the g-32 paxilon hydroclorate that we added to the air processors. it's... .well it works... it was supposed to calm the population, weed out aggression. make a peaceful... it worked. the people here stopped fighting. and then they stopped everything else. they stopped going to work, stopped breeding... talking... eating... there's thirty million people here and they all just let themselves die. they didn't even kill themselves. they just... most starved. when they stopped working the power grids, there were overloads, fires -- people burned to death sitting in their v0 chairs. just sitting. 
speaker1: i have to be quick. there was no one working the receptors when we landed, so we hit pretty hard. we can't leave. we can't take any of the local transports because...
speaker1: there are people... they're not people... about a tenth of a percent of the population had the opposite reaction to the pax. their aggressor response increased... beyond madness.

speaker1: reavers... they made them... 
speaker2: i won't live to report this, and we haven't got power to... people have to know... we meant it for the best... to make people safer... to...
speaker3: turn it off.
speaker4: mal walks outside.

speaker1: i seen so much death... i been on fields carpeted with bodies, friends and enemies -- i seen men and women blown to messes no further from me than you. 
speaker2: mal...
speaker1: but every single one of those people died on their feet.

speaker1: river... 
speaker2: i'm all right.
speaker2: i'm all right.

speaker1: you all got on this boat for different reasons, but you all v0 come to the same place. so now i'm asking more of you than i have before. maybe all. 'cause as sure as i know anything i know this: they will try again. maybe on another world, maybe on this very ground, swept clean. a year from now, ten, they'll swing back to the belief that they can make people... better. and i do not hold to that. so no more running. i aim to misbehave. 
speaker2: my grandma always told me: if you can't do something smart, do something right.
speaker1: that the same grandma told you 4 there was an evil dwarf spirit living in your well?
speaker2: she was a fun grandma.
speaker3: do we have a plan?
speaker1: mr universe. we haven't the equipment to broadwave this code, but he can put it on every screen for thirty worlds. he's pretty close, too.
speaker4: based on our orbital trajectories, he reached optimum proximity just before our sunset. if we make a direct run within the hour we're only 67,332 miles out. at full burn we'd reach him inside of three- hours .

speaker1: still got the reavers, and probably the alliance between us and him. 
speaker2: it's a fair bet the alliance knows about mr universe. they're gonna see this coming.
speaker3: no.
speaker3: they're not gonna see this coming.

speaker1: it's no problem! bring it on bring it on bring it on! from here to the eyes and ears of the 'verse, that's my motto, or it might be if i start having a motto. 
speaker2: we won't be long.
speaker1: you're gonna get caught in the ion cloud, it'll play merry hob with your radar, but pretty pretty lights and a few miles after you'll be right in my orbit.
speaker2: you'll let us know if anyone else comes at you?

speaker1: i'm reading activity in the cloud. 
speaker2: lock and fire on my command. you should have let me see her. we should have done this as men.
speaker1: sir!

speaker1: vessel in range, lock on... 
speaker1: bastard's not even changing course...

speaker1: that's not good... 
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: target the reavers! target the reavers! target everyone! somebody fire!

speaker1: we're too close for them to arm -- 
speaker2: this is gonna be very tight --

speaker1: hey look, we're upside down. 
speaker2: i am a leaf on the wind, watch how i soar.

speaker1: mal looks out at the chaos... 
speaker2: chickens come home to roost...
speaker2: the --
speaker3: it's okay! i am a leaf on the wind!
speaker2: what does that mean?

speaker1: where's the back up? where's the back up? 
speaker2: back up reads at 20%.. - can you get us down?
speaker3: i'm gonna have to glide her in!

speaker1: will that work? 
speaker2: 140 long as that landing strip is made of fluffy pillows...
speaker3: everybody to the upper decks!

speaker1: go! 
speaker2: head inside!

speaker1: come on. jayne, rearguard. 
speaker2: sir. this is a good hold point_
speaker1: we all stay together --

speaker1: no. they have to come through here; they'll bottleneck and we can thin 'em out. we get pushed ,oo back there's the blast doors. 
speaker2: i can rig 'em so they won't re- open once they close.
speaker3: then shut 'em and hide til --
speaker1: we need to draw them til it's done. this is the place. we'll buy you the time.
speaker4: move those crates back there for cover -- and make sure they ain't filled with anything goes boom.
speaker2: wait, wash -- where's wash?
speaker4: move the gorram crates! come on!
speaker5: reavers rush toward them.
speaker3: tell me you brought 'em this time...

speaker1: zoe... are you here? 
speaker2: do the job, sir.
speaker1: you hold. hold till i'm back.

speaker1: captain's right. can't be thinking on revenge if we're gonna get through this. 
speaker2: you really think any of us are gonna get through this?
speaker1: i might...

speaker1: mal. 
speaker1: guy killed me, mal. he killed me with a sword. how weird is that? i got... a short span here... they destroyed my equipment but i have a back-up unit... bottom of the complex, right over the generator. hard to get to. i know they missed it. they can't stop the signal, mal. they can never stop the signal.

speaker1: i can't shut them up... 
speaker2: it's okay... -
speaker1: they're all made up of rage. i can't...
speaker2: just stay low. i'm right here.

speaker1: she picked a sweet bung of a time to go helpless on us. 
speaker2: jayne and i take the first wave. nobody shoots less they get past our fire. simon moves to kaylee, who is shaky as hell. the bangs on the door continue.
speaker3: oh, i didn't plan on going out like this. i think we did right, but...
speaker4: i never planned... anything. i just wanted to keep river safe. spent so much time on serenity trying to find us a home i never realized i already had.

speaker1: my one true regret in all this is never being with you. 
speaker2: with me? you mean to say, as, sex?
speaker1: i mean to say.
speaker2: with this. i'm gonna live.

speaker1: guy killed me, mal. 
speaker1: hard to get to. that's a fact.
speaker2: zoe... gorramnit...

speaker1: shot me in the back. i haven't... made you angry, have i? 
speaker2: there's a lot of innocent people in the air being killed right now.
speaker1: you have no idea how true that is.
speaker1: i know the secret now. the truth that burned up river tam's brain and set you after her. and the rest of the 'verse is gonna know it too. 'cause they need to.
speaker2: you really believe that?
speaker1: i do.

speaker1: i am. 
speaker2: of course, that ain't exactly plan
speaker3: he drops out his cartridge and slams another in.

speaker1: spine's intact -- 
speaker2: just gimme a bandage.

speaker1: oh, now you're likin' guns, huh? cheaters! 
speaker2: everybody fall back! fall back!
speaker2: jayne! grenade!
speaker1: very last one...
speaker2: they're gonna get in --
speaker3: can close it... from outside...
speaker2: no one's coming back from that...
speaker2: how much ammo do we have?
speaker1: we got three full cartridges and my swingin' cod. that's all.

speaker1: lift isn't moving... 
speaker2: when they come, try to plug the hole with 'em...
speaker3: i'm starting to lose some feeling here... i think there's something in them darts they throwed at me.
speaker4: lie still. i'm gonna give you something to counteract the --
speaker4: my bag.
speaker1: keep pressure here...
speaker4: my bag. need... adrenaline... and a shot of calaphar for kaylee... i can't... river...?
speaker4: river... i'm sorry...
speaker5: no. no.

speaker1: i hate to... leave... 
speaker2: you won't. you take care of me, simon. you've always taken care of me.
speaker2: my turn.

speaker1: you know what your sin is, malcolm? 
speaker2: but right now...
speaker2: vao i'm gonna have to go with wrath.

speaker1: you suppose he got through? think mal got the word out? 
speaker2: he got through. i know he got through.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker1: you should know there's no shame in this. you've done remarkable things. but you're fighting a war you've already lost.
speaker2: iwo well, i'm known for that.
speaker2: piece a shrapnel tore up that nerve cluster my first tour. had it moved.

speaker1: sorry 'bout the throat. expect you'd wanna say your famous last mw words now. just one trouble. 
speaker1: i ain't gonna kill you. he moves to the console, starts prepping it.
speaker1: hell, i'm gonna grant your greatest wish.
speaker1: i'm gonna show you a world without sin.
speaker2: these are some of the first sites we scouted on miranda. there is no one living on this planet. there is no one...

speaker1: sir? 
speaker2: it's done. report?
speaker3: drop your weapons! drop 'em now!
speaker4: do we engage? do we engage?

speaker1: if you're here to tell me we ain't finished... then we will be real quick. 
speaker2: do you know what an uproar you've caused? protests, riots -- cries for a recall of the entire parliament.
speaker1: we've seen the broadwaves.
speaker2: you must be pleased.
speaker1: 'verse wakes up a spell. won't be long 'fore she rolls right over and falls back asleep. taint my worry.
speaker2: i can't guarantee they won't come after you. the parliament. they have a hundred men like me and they are not forgiving.
speaker1: that don't bode especially well for you... giving the order to let us go, patching up our hurt...
speaker2: i told them the tams were no longer a threat -- damage done.

speaker1: the operative they might listen, but... i think they know i'm no longer their man. 
speaker2: they take you down, i don't expect to grieve overmuch. like to kill you myself, i see you again.
speaker3: you won't. there is... .nothing left to see.
speaker3: "serenity". you lost everything in that battle. everything you had, everything you were... how did you go on?

speaker1: you still standing there when the engine starts, you never will figure it out. 
speaker1: what a whiner...
speaker2: sir, we have a green light. inspection's pos and we're clear for upthrust.
speaker1: think she'll hold together?

speaker1: she's tore up plenty. but she'll fly true. 
speaker2: a beat between them before:
speaker3: make sure everything's secure.
speaker1: always is.

speaker1: we're taking her out. should be about a day's ride to get you back to your girls. 
speaker2: right.

speaker1: you ready to get off this heap and back to a civilized life? 
speaker2: i, uh... i don't know.
speaker1: good answer.

speaker1: you gonna ride shotgun, help me fly? 
speaker2: that's the plan.
speaker1: think you can work out how to get her in the --

speaker1: okay, clearly some aptitude for the... but it ain't all buttons a0 and charts, . you know what the first rule of flying is? well, i suppose you do, since you already know what i'm about to say. 
speaker2: i do. but i like to hear you say it.
speaker1: love. you can learn all the math in the 'verse, but you take a boat in the air you don't love, she'll shake you off just as sure as the turning of worlds. love keeps her in the air when she oughta fall down, tells you she's hurting 'fore she keens. makes her a home.

speaker1: storm's getting worse. 
speaker2: we'll pass through it soon enough.

