speaker1: how much further do we have to go? 
speaker2: pass him the money.
speaker2: franky you know you have no choice. so please can we get on with it?

speaker1: if you need a man in london then call this number. 
speaker2: boris?
speaker1: boris, boris can get you anything you need.

speaker1: it's a bit heavy isn't it boris? 
speaker2: heavy is good. heavy is reliable. if it doesn't work you can hit him with it.

speaker1: yes gorgeous? 
speaker2: sorry tommy, i hope that i am not interrupting.
speaker1: oh of course you're not interrupting gorgeous, i put the do not disturb sign on the door because i wanted you to join us.
speaker2: what are you doing tommy?
speaker1: i am baking a cake gorgeous, not that i t ' s any of your business. put the takings down, and be a good chap.
speaker1: is there anything else gorgeous, a cup of tea perhaps? no? well in that could you kindly off and shut the door behind you?
speaker1: not too bright but he hits like a train. ok i ' l l take it. you're a gambling man boris, so i'll toss you for it. heads it's mine, tails i'll give you twice the price.
speaker3: i ' l l toss the coin.

speaker1: twenty carats? 
speaker2: best stone i've seen in years.
speaker1: good man franky, you done a good job. what time you back?
speaker3: i gotta move the smaller stones here; it shouldn't take me long. i ' l l be a couple of days.
speaker1: speak to my cousin doug.
speaker2: doug the head?
speaker1: yeah, doug the head. but get some security. i mean it, get it today, speak to those russians, they can get you anything. and. . .
speaker2: and what?
speaker1: no around in any casinos, you hear me? you've done a good job franky, don't go and it up.
speaker2: i hear ya hands. i see ya hands.
speaker1: he's got it.

speaker1: on the phone subtitled 
speaker2: yes he's got it. he might call, he might not, but if he does be ready.
speaker3: i' l l see what i can do.
speaker2: he can't know that it's you boris. we do too much business together. you're gonna have to get someone else to hit him and there is no way it can relate to us. you understand?
speaker3: yes i understand.
speaker2: one more thing, he loves to gamble.

speaker1: two hundred and sixty pounds, that's pedigree pal. 
speaker1: he doesn't look bad does he?
speaker2: oh no mr mclean, he looks great.
speaker3: yeah great.
speaker2: he'll kill him, he'll do you proud governor.
speaker1: do you reckon that's what people should do for me, do you gary, do me proud?
speaker2: that's what you deserve mr mclean.

speaker1: pull your tongue out of my arsehoie gary. dogs do that, and you're not a dog, are you gary? 
speaker2: err no, i am not.
speaker1: however, you do have all of the characteristics of a dog gary, all except loyalty.
speaker1: and people like dogs gary, for the principal reason that they're loyal. so i don't quite know where that leaves you my old son, other than refuckinpugnant. . .
speaker1: which one was it that kept the four grand from the clapham job?
speaker1: don't let me ask again. i would like answers, but i am not in the mood for asking questions, get busy lads, or it's feeding time, oink, oink, know what i mean?
speaker1: you know what to do with that don't you liam?

speaker1: you're a ruthless liam, i' l l give you that. 
speaker1: but i got no time for grasses.
speaker1: feed em to the pigs errol.
speaker1: he's looking good, bomber, is he not? how's their man getting on?

speaker1: is he allowed to do that? 
speaker2: it's an unlicensed boxing match tommy, not a tickling competition. these lads are out to hurt each other.
speaker3: oi turkish, can i have a drink?

speaker1: what do i look like to you george, a water boy? 
speaker1: oi son, look lively.
speaker1: look at it.
speaker1: how am i supposed to run this thing from that? we gonna need a proper office.
speaker1: i want a new one tommy and you 're going to buy it for me.
speaker2: what's wrong with this one?
speaker1: oh nothing tommy, it's tip top, it's just i am not sure about the colour.
speaker1: here it's all arranged. you just gotta pick it up. here's an address.
speaker2: i t ' s that campsite.
speaker1: that's right, you're buying a caravan, caravans live in campsites.

speaker1: they aren't pikey are they? 
speaker2: i don't know what they are, all i know is they have a caravan, and we want a caravan.
speaker1: i hope they're not pikies. i hate pikies.
speaker2: you're a sensitive boy, ain't you tommy? you got ten grand and i want to see change.
speaker2: me, hold tight, what's that?
speaker1: it's my gucci belt, turkish.
speaker2: no tommy, there's a gun in your trousers. what is a gun doing in your trousers?
speaker1: it's for protection.
speaker2: protection from what, the germans? the war ended fifty years ago. err what's to stop it blowing your off every time you sit down? where did you get it?
speaker1: boris the blade.
speaker2: you mean boris the sneaky russian.

speaker1: the weight is a sign of reliability. i always go for reliability. 
speaker2: i ' l l take it. how much do you want for -it?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: ok, so what do you want for it?
speaker1: i want you to do something for me .
speaker1: there is a fight in a couple of days:
speaker2: what kind of a fight?
speaker1: unlicensed boxing.
speaker1: there is a bookies i know that will take bets. if you place one down for me we will call it quits.
speaker2: why don't you put it down yourself?

speaker1: well there isn't too many bookies that take those kind of bets, and i already have an outstanding debt with the house. i know something most don't. why don't you put a few pounds down yourself? 
speaker2: what do you mean? â·
speaker3: play the game doug.

speaker1: i am playing the game hands. that's what i ' l l give ya. 
speaker2: you gotta haggle fairly doug, otherwise it'll make your hair fall out you'll see. .
speaker1: you know i won't buy poop.
speaker2: he isn't selling poop.
speaker1: listen if the stones are kosher then i'll by em. now i gotta business, to run.

speaker1: that was my cousin hands, have i told you about my cousin hands? 
speaker2: yes dad, you have.
speaker1: he's an important fella.
speaker3: is that a prawn sandwich you're eating?
speaker1: is it?
speaker2: you're jewish dad.
speaker1: yes. i was last timeâ·i looked.
speaker2: well you can't eat shell fish, dad, i t ' s against your persuasion.
speaker1: what persuasion myself or the prawns belongs to is not the issue, the issue is how a shrimp managed to sneak in to' my sandwich.
speaker1: sneaky bastards.

speaker1: alright sol, lincoln. 
speaker2: vin.
speaker3: it's a mosinite.
speaker4: a whatinnite?
speaker3: no, a mosinite.
speaker4: how much a night?
speaker3: no, a mosinite. it's the updated zirconia.
speaker4: enough of bosinites and mosonias, talk english to me sol?
speaker3: zirconias are artificial diamonds, they look pretty good to the novice like you lincoln. but you could break them with a hammer, so they came up with mosinites.
speaker4: what are you saying?
speaker3: i am saying it's worth all.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i t ' s worth more than what, but not a lot more.
speaker3: we have told you before lincoln, you â· stick to being a gangster and leave this game to me and sol.
speaker4: what's that vince?
speaker3: err, it's a dog sol.
speaker3: it's in here, what's the problem, it's only a dog.
speaker4: i know full well what it is vin. where did you get it?
speaker3: those gypsies, they threw it in with a load of moody gold.
speaker4: it better not be dangerous.
speaker3: does it look dangerous?
speaker4: yes, it does vin. if it so much as farts it's out.
speaker3: if it farts we'll all be out.

speaker1: where did you come from? 
speaker2: uzbekistan.
speaker1: oi sol, boris is here.
speaker3: boris, what's up?
speaker2: i have a job for you.
speaker3: go on.
speaker2: i want you to hold up a bookies.
speaker3: how high do you want us to hold it? steady on george. we deal in jewellery boris, we don't hold up bookies.
speaker2: hear me out. this one is different.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: that's what we are looking for.

speaker1: i t ' s a camp site. it's a pikey campsite. 
speaker2: ten points.
speaker1: what are we doing here?
speaker2: we are buying a caravan.
speaker1: off a pack of pikies? what's wrong with you? this'll get messy.
speaker2: not if you're here.
speaker3: oh off tommy you never said anything about pikies.
speaker2: calm down, we are buying and then we are off.
speaker1: oh you bastard, i hate pikies.
speaker4: that's a flash car mister.
speaker2: not as flash as your bike though is it?
speaker4: who you looking for?
speaker2: mr o'neill.
speaker4: do you want me to go and get him?
speaker2: good lad.

speaker1: well are you going to go and get him? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well what are you waiting for?
speaker2: the five quid you are going to pay me.
speaker1: oh off, i'll find him myself.
speaker2: two fifty.
speaker1: you can have a quid.
speaker2: oh you're a tight aren't ya?
speaker3: what are you doing paul? get out of the way boy. are you tommy, have you come about the caravan?
speaker1: mr o'neill?
speaker4: man, call me micky.
speaker1: how are ya?

speaker1: i am well sir, well, quite well, the weather is being kind to us but the engines aren't. 
speaker1: me, would you look at the size of him, man how big are you?
speaker2: he's a big man that's for sure.
speaker1: would you look at the size of his muscles? and then look at the size of his fists. hey mum, come and look at the size of this fella.
speaker1: would you look at the strength of the man? i bet you can box a little can't you sir? you look like a boxer.
speaker3: get out of the way micky and see if the fellas would like a drink.
speaker4: i could murder one.
speaker3: there won't be any murdering done around here, i don't mind telling ya.
speaker1: would the big fella like a cup of tea?
speaker3: don't be silly micky, a man didn't get that size from drinking cups of tea. offer the man a guiness boy.
speaker2: lift me up would you mister?

speaker1: i bet you can't lift us both at the same time. 
speaker2: good dogs, do you like dogs?
speaker3: sure, yeah, i like dogs. i like caravans more.

speaker1: i don't want him dribbling on my , seats man. 
speaker2: give him another of those biscuits.
speaker3: they give him wind.
speaker3: hey watch the road! me, you want this man to drive us sol? can you drive mate?
speaker2: no vin, he can't tell the difference between a steering wheel and a man . on the moon. that' s why i got him.
speaker1: don't you worry about me, jus worry about the dog on my seats man!

speaker1: sol why's he talking like a black man? 
speaker2: i don't know vin. oi tyrone, vin wants to know why you talk like a black man?
speaker3: roots and ting, seen?
speaker1: roots and what?
speaker2: i don't know. you get that gun from boris?
speaker1: got it. it wasn't exactly what i was expecting, mind. mean looking though, that's for sure.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: it's a shotgun sol.
speaker2: i t ' s a anti-aircraft gun vin. what are you planning on shooting, the angels out of the clouds? that's gonna raise more than pulses.
speaker1: it will raise my old son.
speaker2: i don't think i really want to see â· vin. what's wrong with a normal gun?
speaker1: the are psychological advantages to a gun that looks like it can perforate the moon.

speaker1: can you get this dog to stop dribbling on me? 
speaker1: i worry about you vin, talk about overkill. one look at a crack desperate brother and you could wave a knife and fork around, and i am sure they would lick the salt of your scrotum.
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker3: i never do a job unless i have a clean car, i like to make my wheels look crisp.
speaker2: are you serious,? you' re a getaway driver, you're not here to show your car off. â·â·.

speaker1: i don't think it's supposed to have done that. 
speaker2: the deal was you bought it how you saw it.
speaker2: look, i have helped ya as much as i am gonna help ya. you still got a car and i suggest you use it before you're not welcome anymore.
speaker3: hey...
speaker2: it was only a question of time before you got some attention. nobody brings a fella the size of you unless they are trying to say something without talking.
speaker4: just give us my money and you can keep your caravan.

speaker1: why the do i want a caravan that's got no wheels? i am not going to do that. 
speaker1: where the do you think you're going? you want to settle this with a fight?
speaker2: you'll do no such thing michael.
speaker1: alright mum, we shan't, we'll settle it some other way, now don't get upset.
speaker2: i won't have you fighting, micky.
speaker1: okay mum okay. you need to sit down.
speaker1: darren look after mum. get her sitting down.
speaker1: i ' l l fight you for it.

speaker1: you want to stay down my friend, i promise you, you want to stay down. 
speaker1: now you stay down boy or you won't be coming up next time.
speaker1: this is sick. i am outta here.

speaker1: so you're telling me he would have run you through if gorgeous hadn't woken up? 
speaker2: no, his mum stopped it. if his mum hadn't turned up, well, i ' d be pikey sausages.
speaker3: what were you thinking of? why the did you put gorgeous george into a bare knuckle boxing match two days before he had to fight the bomber?
speaker2: he was half his size.
speaker2: i didn't expect him to get hurt.
speaker3: you put the man into a bare knuckle boxing match.

speaker1: what the did you expect? a grease down and a shiatsu? 
speaker2: who took the jam out of your donut?
speaker1: you took the jam out of my donut tommy, you did.
speaker2: you said get a good deal so...
speaker1: tell me the correlation between a hospitalized boxer and a good deal?
speaker1: how are we going to explain to brick top that his fight isn't going to .
speaker2: we replace the fighter.
speaker1: oh what, and hope he doesn't notice? and who the are we going to replace him with?
speaker2: john "the gun?" or "mad fist" willy?
speaker1: you're not exactly mr current affairs, are you tommy? mad fist went mad, and the "gun" shot himself.
speaker2: what about clam hand tony?
speaker1: got his fingers caught in the till.
speaker2: why not?

speaker1: a bare .knuckle boxer isn't a lot of good without any knuckles, tommy. 
speaker1: 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: let's use the pikey.

speaker1: from russia with love. you interested? . 
speaker2: i told you i was interested.
speaker1: i got stones to sell, fat to chew and many different men to see about many different dogs, so if i am not rushing you, could you spit shine the top of your smoothie and move a little faster?
speaker2: hold tight franky, when in rome.
speaker1: i am not in rome doug, i am in a rush.
speaker1: i gotta make the bookies.
speaker2: bookies? what you betting on?

speaker1: some guy called bomber harris. 
speaker2: the unlicensed boxer? you know something i don't?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: you get busy franky. put a couple of hundred down for me.

speaker1: what do you say? 
speaker2: how much you going to pay us?
speaker3: ten k.
speaker2: i lose more than that running for the bus. i ' l l do it for a caravan.
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: no a caravan.
speaker3: a what?
speaker4: you are sitting in one if that makes things easier. i want a top caravan.
speaker3: it was us that wanted a caravan.- anyway what's wrong with this one?
speaker2: it's not for me, it ' s for me mum.

speaker1: i overpaid hands, i want you to recognize charity when i t ' s offered. 
speaker2: do shut up, where is he now?
speaker1: i don't know hands, i ' m not his mother. but i am seeing him later.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: he wants cash so he's coming back after he has been to a fight.
speaker2: what do you mean a fight, you mean a boxing match? is there gambling involved?
speaker1: i t ' s a boxing match hands.
speaker2: did he have a case with him?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and he's gone gambling? that's franky "i have a problem with gambling" four fingers, you are talking about doug.
speaker1: what am i, telepathic?
speaker2: franky is good at buying stones doug but he's a liability when it comes to gambling. that has cost me. so in turn rit' s cost him. he gets distracted and chopping off a digit seems to focus his attention.

speaker1: how much can he lose? 
speaker2: i ' l l not forgive you doug, i am coming over, get me that car. the phone is slammed down.

speaker1: we are here to see brick top. 
speaker2: i am very busy at the moment.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: brick top.
speaker2: never heard of him.

speaker1: you know what he's done to people on that pool table? 
speaker2: what, potted more than any other player? what else can you do to people on a pool table?
speaker1: quite a lot if you nail 'em to it.
speaker3: you turkish?
speaker1: yup. -
speaker3: follow me.
speaker1: they can charm the paint off walls these fellas.

speaker1: look mean now you hairy won't ya? 
speaker1: itself when you put it in the ring, but poke .it with a stick and watch his grow. you like a dog fight, turkish?
speaker2: i like my dog to growl at the post man.
speaker1: gorgeous ready for tonight?
speaker2: we don'c have a gorgeous anymore.
speaker1: you're going to have to repeat that.
speaker2: we have lost gorgeous george.
speaker1: i said keep the noise down.. . .
speaker1: well, where did you lose him? he isn't a set of car keys is he? and it's not as though he is inconfuckinspicuous is it?
speaker2: i am not backing out.
speaker1: you can bet your to a barn dance you're not backing out.

speaker1: we are changing the fighter. 
speaker2: oh me your lady friend has got a voice. and who might you be changing him to, sweetheart?
speaker3: you won't know him.
speaker2: are you taking the piss?
speaker3: no, there was an accident.
speaker2: i'll show you a accident.
speaker3: you've still got your fight.
speaker2: no, i lose all bets at the bookies. you can't change fighters at the last minute, so no, i don't have my fight do i, you prat!
speaker1: you could take bets at the fight.
speaker2: put a lead on her turkish, before she gets bitten.
speaker2: make sure your man goes down in the fourth. you're on thin ice my pedigree chums and i'll be there if it breaks.

speaker1: i am not happy about that dog vin, you can't bring a dog on a job. 
speaker2: you can't leave him on his own, not to begin with, he gets homesick.
speaker1: homesick, for sake.
speaker2: he does. if he gets the chance he runs back to the gypsies' campsite.
speaker1: ohh shut up, how can he find it?
speaker2: i don't know sol, i am not a dog. ask him. it' s like he's got a homing beacon. give him the chance and he's off.
speaker1: you're going soft vin? here pass me a sandwich.
speaker1: jessssus, he didn't even chew it.
speaker2: what have you stopped here for?
speaker3: it's too tight.
speaker2: what are you talking about, tight? you could land a jumbo jet in there.
speaker1: leave him alone, he's a natural.

speaker1: a natural tyrone, what have you done? 
speaker2: look, you hassle me, see what happens.
speaker1: well don't move it now, otherwise people will see the damage. what did you do that for? ^
speaker2: i didn't see it there.
speaker1: eh? it's a four ton truck. it' s not as though i t ' s a ferret a flea is it?
speaker2: it was at a funny angle.
speaker1: funny angle? it was behind you tyrone, whenever you reverse things come from behind you. i am not happy sol.
speaker1: give him something to shut him up.
speaker3: he can't swallow a whole ball.
speaker2: he swallowed it.

speaker1: did you get hands that car? 
speaker2: i got him one like it.
speaker1: what do you mean one like it?
speaker2: i got him the volante.
speaker1: what did i say? what exactly did i say?
speaker2: you said get him the vantage.
speaker1: that's right, i clearly said get him the vantage. so why did you get the volante? ;
speaker2: because they look the same.
speaker1: the septuagint scholars mistranslated the hebrew word for "young woman" in to the greek word for "virgin", because they thought they looked the same, coming up with the prophecy "behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son". but there is a world of difference between a virgin and a young woman like there is between a volante and a vantage.
speaker2: are you saying that the fact that your cousin hands is driving a valiant instead of a vantage is a profound a mistake as a whole religion?
speaker1: yes i am!

speaker1: how about a hug for your old cousin doug? 
speaker2: off you fat bald - and where's my car?

speaker1: how am i going to get it out? 
speaker2: he'll probably cough it up.
speaker1: do you think he'll be alright?
speaker2: hope not.
speaker3: what are we waiting for?
speaker2: we are waiting for a man carrying a case.

speaker1: because the deal is that we give the russian the case and we keep the money. 
speaker2: what's in the case?
speaker1: 'ell tyrone you ask a lot of questions. you concentrate on the driving okay?
speaker1: was that him?
speaker1: are you serious? i am sorry but i couldn't get the binoculars out in time.
speaker3: well let's not stand on ceremony, let's start the show.

speaker1: you can start by giving me all your money. 
speaker2: does sir know who this bookies belongs to?
speaker1: it. belongs to me now.
speaker1: if you know what's good for...
speaker3: vi nce ? vince??
speaker3: i have got your man out here. if you don't put down the screen i'll blow his head off! you hear me?
speaker3: you think you can try me?

speaker1: drop the screen now! you just seen what it did to this wall so think what it could do to you. 
speaker2: . do it. . . . i said do it.
speaker1: how you doing vince?
speaker3: how do i look like i am doing you idiot? i would be doing a lot better if you would stop using my name.
speaker1: now fill this bag. . . ' . - . -
speaker2: all bets are off.
speaker1: i am not here to make a bet.

speaker1: all bets are off. 
speaker2: are you stupid? i don't care if the bets are off. i want...
speaker1: if all bets are off then there can't be any money, can there?
speaker2: i ain't buying that.
speaker1: i ain't selling it, it's a fact! . ''.
speaker2: well, what have you got?
speaker1: nothing, i mean we got a few coins but no notes.
speaker3: can we just get out of here please. i am not feeling too funny.
speaker2: well i am not feeling too funny myself, let me tell you!
speaker2: let me see your hands.

speaker1: copper coins? what do you mean copper coins? 
speaker1: we're going vin.
speaker1: no security, eh?
speaker2: what the are you two doing?

speaker1: tyrone get us outta here. 
speaker1: i said, get us outta here tyrone!

speaker1: ...-.! gotta say it's not bad. 
speaker1: caesar's palace?
speaker2: private night tonight chaps.
speaker1: are we ever going to get in there?
speaker3: you gotta understand that this isn't exactly vegas and it's not exactly legal.
speaker1: i am not looking for vegas, doug, i am looking for franky four fingers.
speaker3: well he said he was going to be here.

speaker1: if there's gambling involved, he'll be here. 
speaker1: hello, who's your man?
speaker2: horrible bastard, it's his fight, made all his money in.
speaker1: original.
speaker2: so he doesn't need to do this, but he's got dark taste for fights and blood, he wants to impress london's criminal royalty..
speaker2: ..with a tip on when who hits the floor. any man with veins in his brains knows brick top knows the answer.
speaker2: those boys make brick top look like a skirt clinging thumb and i y o u p l a y wi t h i r e . . . â·

speaker1: as long as we keep them happy. 
speaker1: make sure they are kept sweet. the last thing i want is them moaning.

speaker1: and in the other corner a man that needs no introduction to destruction, the solo warrior of walthamstow, sometimes known as buckshot peter, or sometimes known as the dictator . to the devastator, he put the ' e ' in eradicate, the ' o ' in obliterate and the ' a 1 in annihilate, you know this monster of a monster, the sinister prime minister.. . . "bomber the "mad man" harris"! 
speaker1: now i want a good dirty fight lads, so now it's that time again.. . . let's. . . . get ready to rrrrrrummmmmble.

speaker1: tha-nks for the tip, brick top. 
speaker2: i have just said goodbye to forty large because of you, what's the crack?

speaker1: where ' s the russian? 
speaker2: he should be here in a minute. well get him to open it.
speaker2: oi, you, four fingers, how are we going to get into your case?
speaker3: if you take the tape off my eyes â· i ml tell you.
speaker1: what do you need the tape off your eyes for? you talk out of them?
speaker3: i can't remember the combination i can only do it if i see it .
speaker2: you look at us and it's good night.
speaker1: come on.
speaker2: and?
speaker4: and here's the money.

speaker1: i don't believe this. why are you carrying round a case with this little in it? . . 
speaker2: now be a bunch of good fellas and lie down on the floor.
speaker3: whoops.
speaker3: hello what have we got here?

speaker1: what are you doing with him? 
speaker2: the case was attached to his body.
speaker1: so why didn't you chop it off?
speaker3: err, because we didn't. now boris we have or rather you have a problem.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: there wasn't any money there. v boris pulls out a wad of notes 
speaker2: there's ten grand.
speaker3: keep it. we want this, or at least half of this.

speaker1: vin holds up the stone: the atmosphere changes. 
speaker2: what was in the case was mine, what was in the bookies was yours, ok there wasn't much but, here's ten large to help the situation.
speaker3: i am afraid it's too late for that boris. -
speaker3: we want half and that's because we are being generous. we could by rights keep the whole stone.
speaker2: you idiots. he couldn't know who i am. now open the case and give me.the stone.
speaker2: who's next? you have the ten grand now give me the stone.

speaker1: the only man that knows the combination you just shot. 
speaker2: he's your problem now. you can keep the" ten grand along with the body, but if i see you again...well look at him.

speaker1: i ain't going in the front. 
speaker2: i don't think it's a good idea you going in at all.
speaker1: unless you are going to transcendentally extract the passports and cash from out of a steel safe, i can't see any other way of getting them. keep your eyes peeled.
speaker1: well i can't see anyone. after i have got in go round the front and call me if you see anything.

speaker1: oink, oink. where do you keep the sugar? 
speaker2: you scared the life outta me.
speaker3: you wait till you see what the pigs do to you.
speaker2: what brings you two here, run out of pants to sniff?
speaker1: that's very good turkish.
speaker3: very cool turkish.
speaker2: well what do you want?
speaker4: i want two sugars in my tea. what do you want john?
speaker3: i want to see him lying cold and still, but we aren't here for what we want are we errol?
speaker1: well aren't you going to answer it?

speaker1: brick top's just landed, he's walking in the front, i would move it if i were you turkish... 
speaker2: what's happening with the tea?
speaker3: help yourself. you have to every thing else.
speaker2: that sounds like hostility, doesn't it john?
speaker4: oh we don't like hostility do we .errol?
speaker5: no john we don't, but i am sure he could be pacified, what do you think john? here you hold his arms, and i ' l l hold his legs.
speaker3: brick top.
speaker6: turkish. got the kettle on?
speaker3: you want sugar?
speaker7: no thank you turkish, i am sweet enough.
speaker3: if i turn my back am i going to get a hole through it?
speaker7: don't be silly turkish, if i wanted you dead would i be talking?. . .

speaker1: carry on. you've provided me with a problem, which you gonna have to remedy. i gotta bare knuckle fight in a couple of days. i want to use the pikey. 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: of course of course, i wasn't asking i was telling. but this time i do want him to go down in the fourth. and i do mean it this time.
speaker1: now i know you,came back. to. open your safe, so now you can open it. .

speaker1: he's been a busy little that turkish. 
speaker2: i think you have let him get away with enough all ready gov.
speaker1: it can get you into a lot of trouble thinking errol, i shouldn't do so much of it. â·
speaker1: well that takes care of one little piggy, now find me the silly sods that blagged the bookies. find em today.

speaker1: open up charlie. 
speaker2: off. the only thing i'11 open up is you.
speaker1: i t ' s lucky you .got me charlie, it could have been one of the other lads, and then think how much trouble you' d be in.
speaker2: you come through that door and you'll be going out prostrate.
speaker1: it doesn't belong to you charlie.
speaker1: you silly fucker, you can't go running off with other people's gear. how much you put up your nose?
speaker1: oh you silly
speaker2: go down-boy, go down.

speaker1: they, have only made forty this year. you could find the maker of this engine's signature on the engine. 
speaker2: no it's true. i can't find'him, but i know a man that can.
speaker2: tony. bullet tooth tony. he'll find franky for you.
speaker1: who's he?
speaker3: â·what is he?' would be a more appropriate question.
speaker2: he's the best chance you have of finding franky.

speaker1: he has upset every bad boy in town, at some point, or another but nobody's got the nuts to knock him off because they aren't sure whether you can kill the bastard. 
speaker2: you really think he can find him?
speaker1: he'll find you moses and the burning bush if you pay him to.
speaker2: ok so let's get hold of him.
speaker3: firstly you gotta understand he's a little strange. .
speaker2: .he could swing from trees wearing rubber dresses as far as i am concerned, all as i care about is whether he can find franky.

speaker1: they're very nice tommy. thank you. 
speaker2: where did they come from? you're a snake in the grass tommy.
speaker1: you looking for micky?
speaker2: 'do you know where i can find him?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: well would you like to share that information with me ms o'neill? 
speaker2: i don't want you getting my boy in to any trouble you hear me? he's my only boy and he's a good boy.
speaker3: he's coursing, he's a couple of fields that way.
speaker4: what's coursing?

speaker1: hare coursing. the gypsies can't get enough of it. 
speaker2: what the fuck's a hare?
speaker1: i t ' s a big rabbit.
speaker2: why don't they call em big rabbits then?
speaker1: because they call em hares.
speaker2: so what's coursing?
speaker1: they set two lurchers, they are dogs before you ask, on a hare, that's the big rabbit. and the hare has to outrun the dogs.
speaker2: what happens if he doesn't?
speaker1: well the big rabbit gets doesn't it?

speaker1: come on, what, proper fucked? 
speaker2: yeah before the germans get there tommy. how can a dog a rabbit?...eh? if eats the bastard.

speaker1: excuse me mate, d'ya know mullet? 
speaker1: cheers pal.
speaker2: errol, john. alright chaps? how's the gov'nor?
speaker1: very well mullet, i am sure he'll be flattered you inquired.
speaker2: yeah let him know that i asked.
speaker3: we'll be sure to. now come on mullet what have you got for us about the gov'nor's bookies?
speaker2: i did find something out as it happens, i knew a driver who was grafting that day.
speaker1: don't stop with the foreplay.

speaker1: white geezer, bit of a bounty. 
speaker2: eh?
speaker1: bounty, black on the outside, white on the inside.
speaker3: go on.
speaker1: he was doing a job for a couple of brothers in smith street. i think it was a shop.
speaker3: as in filthy dirty?
speaker1: as in i have run out of money and here's my wedding ring.
speaker4: good boy mullet.

speaker1: well do you want to do it? 
speaker2: that depends.
speaker1: on what?
speaker2: on you buying this caravan.
speaker1: that's not the same caravan.
speaker2: this isn't the same fight.

speaker1: i t ' s twice the size of the last one. 
speaker2: the fight is twice the size. and my mum still needs a new caravan.
speaker1: micky you are lucky we aren't worm food after your performance, i think buying a tart's mobile palace is a little rich.
speaker1: i didn't mean that your mum was a tart. i just meant...
speaker2: save your breath for cooling your porridge. i'll bet you for it.
speaker1: what like tommy did last time? do me a favour?
speaker2: i ' l l do you a favour, you have first , bet. if i win i get the caravan, if i lose i'l l do the fight for free.
speaker1: okay, i reckon the hare gets caught.

speaker1: the hare gets caught and a pile of fur comes up 
speaker2: ok, i'll tell you.

speaker1: turkish is getting into his car. . .. 
speaker2: you're are as mad as mars you are, why did you take that bet? what happens now?
speaker3: we buy him a caravan tommy.
speaker2: there is something very wrong with this, it was us that wanted to buy a caravan off him.
speaker3: why didn't you "bus a cap in his ass" then tommy? mind you, you would do more damage if you threw it at him.
speaker2: you saying i can't shoot?
speaker3: oh no tommy i wasn't saying you can't shoot, i know you can't shoot. what i was saying is that six pound piece of stuck in your trousers there would do more damage if you fed it to em.
speaker2: are you saying it doesn't work?
speaker3: you tried it?
speaker4: .=.. . that russian saves the shooters that "' work for the faces, and i don't want to be the one that breaks it to you tommy but you ain't a face. go on try it.

speaker1: whoops. 
speaker2: i want to see that sneaky russian.

speaker1: what happened to him? 
speaker2: he got shot in the face lincoln, i would have thought that was obvious.
speaker3: well what do you want me to do about it?
speaker2: sort it out.
speaker1: the only way to sort it out is to bring him back to life and i am not a witch doctor am i?
speaker2: villains are supposed to know how to get rid of bodies.
speaker1: err, yes, but i have never actually got rid of one. who is he?
speaker2: he's a man with a hole in his face lincoln. who cares who he is?
speaker1: err well, let's wrap him up.
speaker2: what do you want to do that for?

speaker1: i am sorry, but he's a stubborn bastard, he says he's had enough, he says he's got to look after his old mum. 
speaker2: his what? â·.-â· . ..
speaker2: are' you taking the again?
speaker1: that's what he said, she's a nice old girl his mum.
speaker2: you're on thin ice turkish, and i am going to be there when it breaks.
speaker2: anything for an easy life. that pikey being difficult. hello, we here?

speaker1: get the governor john. 
speaker2: it looks like we are in gov.
speaker3: oh goodie gum drops. get us a cup of tea would you errol?
speaker4: hold him by his legs.
speaker5: what do you think i am holding him by, his ears?
speaker3: hope it ' s not a bad moment.
speaker3: do you know who i am?
speaker6: yeah i know.
speaker3: good. that will save me some time then.
speaker7: well i don't.
speaker3: what you gonna do with your man there? you're always gonna have problems lifting a body in one piece. apparently the best thing to do is cut the corpse up into six pieces and pile it all together.

speaker1: would someone mind telling me who you are? 
speaker2: after you got six pieces you gotta get rid of 'em, of course you can't just leave it in the deep freeze for your mum to discover, can ya?
speaker3: lincoln, who is this man?
speaker2: and then i hear the best thing to do is feed 'em to pigs. you gotta starve the pigs for a few days, then the sight of a chopped up body looks like curry to a drunk. you gotta shave the heads of your victims and pull the teeth out, you could do that after of course, but you don't want to go sieving pig do you? ever seen the size of one of their molars? â· he holds up his fist
speaker2: they go through bone like i t ' s butter. you gotta have a few pigs though you need about sixteen they will go through a body that weighs two hundred pounds in about eight minutes that means that a single pig can consume two pounds of uncooked flesh every minute,. . . pause
speaker2: hence the expression greedy as a pig.
speaker3: well thank you, that's a large weight off my mind.

speaker1: but would you mind very much telling me who the' you are? other than a man that feeds people to pigs of course. 
speaker2: would you look at the size of this?
speaker3: golly that is big isn't it errol?
speaker3: do you know what nemesis means?
speaker3: a righteous infliction of retribution â·by. an appropriate agent, personified in this case by a horrible me.

speaker1: can i call you tony? 
speaker2: you can call me susan if it makes you happy.
speaker3: you got nice teeth susan. tony demonstrates an interest in rose bud's.
speaker2: you don't, you should comb em some time.

speaker1: well then it depends on all the elements in the equation, how many , are there? 
speaker2: about forty thousand.
speaker1: where was he last seen?
speaker3: at a bookies.
speaker1: a bookies eh? susi, pass us the blower.

speaker1: is this how you want him gov? 
speaker2: no spin him round, i want him sunny side up.
speaker3: mr mclean i kid you not. why do you think we have a dead man, missing an arm in our office? give us four days and we'11 bring you a stone the size of a home.
speaker2: what do you think errol?
speaker4: i think we should drip dry em governor, while we have the chance.

speaker1: it was a rhetorical question errol, what have i told you about thinking? 
speaker1: you got forty eight hours.
speaker1: i am going to take your man here.
speaker1: you can keep this silly wanker.
speaker2: hold on..
speaker3: shut it or i'll cut ya. . .
speaker1: in forty eight hours i'11 set the dogs on him and then the pigs on the remains.

speaker1: a bookies got blagged last night. 
speaker2: blagged?
speaker1: robbed. i gotta see a man who looks like he might know something, but it can't be done on the phone if you know what i mean.
speaker3: i need a cun.

speaker1: no you don't, rose bud my old son, you need me. 
speaker2: tyrone looks desperate. .
speaker3: he set the dogs on me. look.
speaker4: no wonder that sneaky russian didn't want to do it.
speaker5: first things first, one of us, tyrone, you get round to-the russian's. the second you see him call us.
speaker3: you better be round with something substantial, don't turn up with a frown and a wagging finger.
speaker5: i am on it tyrone^.

speaker1: alright mullet? 
speaker2: tony, alright mate? i thought., well i thought you weren't about anymore.

speaker1: this job does have prospects after all, you travel to pretty places, meet interesting people. 
speaker2: who the gave you such a big mouth?
speaker1: someone whom you might shortly meet.
speaker2: you threatening me?
speaker1: only with wings and a halo.
speaker1: clean the breakfast7off your top lip/ and make yourself busy sunshine.
speaker1: i want to know who blagged brick top's bookies.
speaker3: oh do me a favour tone?
speaker1: i will do you a favour mullet, i'll not bash the living out of you in front of all your girlfriends here.

speaker1: tony.. . 
speaker2: if you play hard to get 'mullet you'll wish you'd never been caught.

speaker1: make it worth my while at least. tone you know how it is. 
speaker2: give us your wallet hands.
speaker2: comfortable mullet? , mullet has already gone pink.
speaker2: you can take as long as you like mullet.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i am driving down the street with your head stuck in my window. what do you think i am doing you penis?
speaker2: you been using dog tooth paste mullet?

speaker1: oh i love this track. yes mullet. 
speaker2: it could be tyrone conway.
speaker1: tyrone conway?
speaker2: white geezer, thinks he's black, did a job for a pair of brothers who have a shop in smith street.
speaker1: tyrone conway?
speaker2: yes that's what i said. i t ' s tyrone conway.
speaker1: it may be him, but wait and see what i can do to you.
speaker3: what about?

speaker1: russian? the sneaky dogs. i been doing business with those sneaky dogs. 
speaker2: boris.
speaker3: dear oh dear, you do know some horrible people.

speaker1: russians, i didn't think it would be the russians. 
speaker2: boris the blade? i heard of him, isn't he supposed to be a short little that's covered in scars?
speaker3: sneaky little one of the russian dissidents, killed more men than,...well he's-killed a lot of men. deals in arms, that he gets off some of the old school.
speaker2: hold on. what's going on here?
speaker4: yes dad?
speaker5: what does that man want?
speaker4: i t ' s hard to say, he's got a thick russian accent.

speaker1: he's a bit sneaky this fella, so watch out. 
speaker2: i hate russians. i'll sort him out.
speaker1: he's all yours rose bud.

speaker1: what's wrong with micky? 
speaker2: his mam was in there patrick. they burnt his mam.

speaker1: sneaky was a bit of a understatement wasn't it? 
speaker2: what do you want me to do? your man there thought he could take him. i told you he was dangerous.
speaker1: how you doing rosey?

speaker1: you're going to have to get me to a hospital, let's shoot that 
speaker2: we gotta get this stone first rosy and then we'll get you to a hospital.

speaker1: lincoln's got some tools here, when he has had a few drinks he gets em out and runs around the house holding a pistol in each hand, telling me about what a bad boy he is. 
speaker2: do you know where he keeps em?
speaker1: well they ain't gonna be lying on the kitchen table vince, we gotta have to look. flick tlie switch.
speaker2: what's going on here?
speaker1: he likes his drum does bad boy lincoln.
speaker1: well let's get busy.

speaker1: i think you have got something to tell us. 
speaker2: take it easy rosy, take it easy.
speaker3: you want him to be able to talk or not?

speaker1: i didn't know did i? they always looked the to me. 
speaker2: what are we gonna do with em sol?
speaker1: shut your mouth vince, this is all we got, so this will have to do.
speaker1: yes?

speaker1: now. 
speaker2: that's why i am calling you.
speaker1: we're coming over. hold him there.

speaker1: i t ' s not just a he, there are three . of them in the house with him. 
speaker2: why didn't you tell us tyrone?
speaker3: do they look hard?
speaker1: they look up.
speaker3: load them up with what?
speaker1: what's wrong with them?
speaker3: . they're replicas.

speaker1: hold tight rudy, are you mad? 
speaker2: no i don't tyrone, but i do know i don't want to be eaten by pulled apart by dogs and then eaten by pigs.

speaker1: i am sorry micky. i am really sorry. he's a mad bastard. 
speaker2: who are these the boys micky?
speaker3: back off darren. what kind of would turn up here if they knew what had happened? leave my business to me boy.
speaker3: i got a message that he wanted me to you two off, that's why i wanted you back. i' l l do the fight before he causes any more carnage, but i ' l l only do it if you're there.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: because i know he hates ya. . â·

speaker1: it's not warm the blood in his veins is it? 
speaker2: i gotta say .1 don't like this tommy. this has got very messy. you know how he felt about his old girl. i think we should get you a new gun tommy, but this time try . . . '. it.
speaker1: how far is the russian's?
speaker2: we'll be there in a minute. he takes a sip of his milk. there's a pause.
speaker2: it's not the same.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: milk, in these cartons.
speaker1: you shouldn't drink that stuff any way.

speaker1: why, what's wrong with it? 
speaker2: it's not in synch with evolution.
speaker1: shut up!
speaker3: cows have only been domesticated in the last eight thousand years, before that they were running around mad as lorries. the human digestive system '"' hasn't got used to any dairy products yet, it takes a lot longer than that.
speaker1: well me tommy, what have you been reading?

speaker1: cows mad as lorries eh? you hear about the two cows having a chat in a field? one says to the other, "what do you think about this mad cows' disease then? the other one looks back and says "doesn't bother me, i'm a duck. 
speaker2: here let me do you a favour.
speaker2: what was in that milk?

speaker1: he's a sneaky that russian. 
speaker2: what you want to do about the russian?
speaker1: i want to bury him.

speaker1: well come on. 
speaker2: not so fast vin we can't get em now we gonna have to follow them. b tt's car moves off. the black guys follow.
speaker3: i ' l l move in. it'll be ok.
speaker2: ok is very close to ko, and ko is close to r.i fucking.p. you know what rip stands for tyrone?
speaker3: it stands for.
speaker2: it stands for .shut your mouth tyrone and leave the talking to us.
speaker3: do they fire?
speaker4: of course they fire?
speaker1: how do you know? they're replicas, what do you know about replicas?
speaker5: what the do you think you're doing sol?
speaker2: i didn't know it was that loud.

speaker1: well just how loud did you think it was going to be? it's a- gun sol, guns are renowned for making a loud noise whenever you pull the trigger. 
speaker2: you wanted to see if they worked.
speaker1: i didn't mean try it in the car sol.
speaker2: well they work, i reckon they are really going to put the into em.
speaker1: right now i am not concerned with putting the into em sol, i am " " . concerned about taking the pain out of my ringing ears. look what you did to poor tyrone. tyrone you alright?
speaker1: are you alright?
speaker3: i am deaf! what have you done to my car?

speaker1: how we going to get rid of him? 
speaker2: you want to shoot him?
speaker3: i t ' s a bit noisy isn't it?

speaker1: well you want to stab him? 
speaker1: you want to kill him or not?
speaker2: i' 1 1 cut him.
speaker1: that's the spirit. there's a sword back there.
speaker1: you, you want a knife?
speaker3: i wouldn't know what to do with it.
speaker1: it's not a rocket launcher. it's a knife for gods sake, what have you used for to keep your fork company for all these years? it's got a sharp side and a blunt side. you want a lesson?

speaker1: you what have you done? 
speaker2: is that boris?

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: we hit something and something hit us.

speaker1: let's hit em now. 
speaker2: the is a dead russian on my lap sol i am not thinking about hitting anybody right now.
speaker1: well you better start thinking vince because otherwise you'll be lucky if you end up looking like that.

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker2: no i am about a rocket ride from right tony.
speaker1: i mean do you feel alright?
speaker2: ohh yeah, i feel like i am lying on the naked lap of aphrodite, cooled by the tumbling petals of spring roses, how the do you think i feel?

speaker1: hold tight big man, and put your guns away. let's get going. 
speaker2: what about rose bud?
speaker1: well you can bring him with you if you want but which bit do you want to bring?

speaker1: they are getting out. 
speaker2: well get down, the last thing we want him to see is three brothers wearing ski masks.

speaker1: btt is on the phone 
speaker2: doug, we are in the come and pick us up.
speaker3: he's left the door open.

speaker1: i shouldn't think that's a good idea. 
speaker2: i don't want to go in there, he's a dangerous bastard, taken too many disco biscuits in the heat of russian disputations, he's got as many of these nuts as those nuts.
speaker1: i don't care if he's got hazel nuts, i want a gun that works.
speaker2: well come on then before the germans get here.

speaker1: i'11 never forgive you sol. 
speaker2: when we get in you wait by the door i am number one, vin number two and you are number three.

speaker1: number three pull the blind down. 
speaker2: lo number three, he said pull the blind down.
speaker2: i'll sort it. .
speaker1: stand up!
speaker3: excuse me, but who the are you?
speaker1: you hear what .1 said? stand up, unless you're crippled.
speaker3: do i look crippled? ,
speaker1: you'll look dead, unless you stand up.
speaker3: you got ballsl
speaker1: you want to test em?
speaker3: there are two types of balls, there are big brave and there are little mincy balls.

speaker1: so you're obviously the big dick, and they on either side of you, must be your balls. 
speaker2: let go of the gun.
speaker3: i am talking for your benefit. now have drive, and clarity of vision.
speaker3: but they're not clever, they smell pussy, and they want a piece of the action, and the dimmer the dick, the less he cares about the consequences, and you thought you smelt gooood ol pussy, and have brought your little mincy along for a gooood ol time, but you have got your parties muddled up, there is no here, just a dose to make you wish you were born a woman.. . .
speaker3: and just like a prick, you are having second thoughts; you're shrinking, and your little are shrinking with you.

speaker1: quite a lump. alright you can go ' now . ' 
speaker2: any chance of taking lincoln with us?
speaker1: that's where errol's taking ya.

speaker1: follow me. 
speaker2: you alright lincoln?
speaker1: do you know why the governor is the governor?
speaker3: err. .
speaker1: i t 's because people are scared of him. you know why they are scared of him?
speaker2: err .
speaker1: it's because of stories. i am sure you've heard one or two of those stories. for example, did you hear about the three black fellas that did a very bad thing, however they made some effort to redeem that very bad thing, so the governor saw fit not to kill em. he thought it would be a more advantageous concept to let them kill each other and let the survivor live to tell the tale. that way everybody wins, well, all except the two that died of course.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: the gun you prick.

speaker1: well you gotta admire their balls. 
speaker2: _ i don't want to admire that i want to chop off.
speaker3: what choice did we have?
speaker4: i know sorry doesn't mean all, but we are game on, what do you want us to do?
speaker5: get us that stone back.
speaker1: so brick top has now got the stone?
speaker4: he's got it.

speaker1: you wouldn't be lying to us would you now? 
speaker2: why should we? could just have disappeared.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: you got some front coming round here ain't ya tony?
speaker4: never mind what i got , i am looking for brick top?
speaker3: you mean mr mclean.
speaker4: you know who i mean you fringe now find him.
speaker4: chop chop.
speaker1: what was it you did exactly tony?
speaker4: i had a little run in with a few of the chaps.
speaker1: how ' s that ?
speaker4: they're all brainless, they got white powdered angels sitting on their shoulders telling them what was what, all too busy. . .

speaker1: if they weren't sniffing the dust they where flicking the ash. and never trust who puts anything other than a finger up his nose. 
speaker2: follow me.

speaker1: yes i know i stabbed a man called lorrie, but no i didn't know he was related to a tub a 
speaker2: shut that door sean.
speaker1: lock that door sean.
speaker1: you're a big man, but i don't care if you're ten foot tall, you still got eight pints of blood and you'll bleed like any bastard. and . when.i drop .ya, and i will drop ya, i'll open you up like a packet of crisps.
speaker1: you're a bully ken, but remember, i am a bigger bully.

speaker1: ha, ken what' s going on? bring em through. the governor wants to see em. 
speaker2: i gotta say you have got some front coming round here tone, you know the lads are picking straws. . .
speaker3: you gotta diamond and it doesn't belong to you, it belongs to my colleague here.
speaker2: that's what i love about you tone, no small talk.
speaker3: i said we should come round and raise hell, you know shoot a few of the boys and that, but he said he thinks we would have more success if we paid for it. so i am going to have a drink and let you two discuss what you have to discuss.
speaker3: alright big man, i hope you aren't bitter about your cousin lorrie.
speaker4: you know you're alright when they're are talking business, i ' d like to see you gob off outta here.
speaker5: ohh do me a favour ken, you've always been mouth and no trousers.

speaker1: i can't sell you something i haven't got now can i? 
speaker2: you're a dead man. you listen to me tony you're a dead fuckin...
speaker1: what did you do to upset ken, tony?
speaker2: he's in my pocket, look!
speaker1: do shut up ken. that was a bit naughty tony.
speaker3: well come on, let's have a look.
speaker3: what are you playing at? -
speaker3: it's a zirconia.

speaker1: i changed the stone. 
speaker2: you what?
speaker1: i changed it. i know brick top knows nothing about stones.
speaker2: yes but doug the head does!
speaker1: yeah well i didn't expect them to lock us up in here did i?
speaker2: ohh your one clever vin, you really are. where is it?
speaker1: it's at lincoln's.
speaker3: what the fuck's it doing at my place?
speaker1: waiting for us to pick it up.
speaker2: what happen if they find that it's a fake stone vince?
speaker1: well we are going to get sol what do you think is going to happen?
speaker4: ohh yes you are going to get vince. -
speaker5: a distant voice is shouting
speaker6: oi micky. oi micky.

speaker1: you feeling alright micky? 
speaker2: i've felt better.
speaker1: we are nearly there. they are a horrible bunch this lot micky so pay attention to what you are doing.
speaker1: put up some kind of a show, he's a hard this "good night" anderson so don't get too clever, he used to be a pro. just keep moving round the ring, and let the odd one go when push has come to shove.
speaker2: let's get on with it, shall we?

speaker1: i hope we gonna get a better show this time. 
speaker2: this will make up for it. micky's going down in the fourth. terry over there is in charge of the bets. now you'll have to forgive me.
speaker2: have we got the lads at the- camp site?

speaker1: yeah they are there. 
speaker2: where's that pikey?

speaker1: what's wrong with you? you stoned? 
speaker1: now you know when you're going down?
speaker2: of course he knows when he's going down.
speaker3: hey face, who's speaking to you? he asked him didn't he?
speaker2: face? i like that, i ' l l have to use that one next time -i want to impress your mum ken.
speaker4: the fourth... or was it the fifth..
speaker1: there's a campsite full of pikies that might not think you're so funny when they 'are putting the flames out on their children's backs.

speaker1: alright lads no eye gouging no biting. do your worst. back to your corners. 
speaker2: i don't like the look of this tommy, bring the van up to the back door.
speaker2: they are on ya. you got to hurt him micky. otherwise we are rumbled.... you hear me micky? do -something, it looks like it' s rigged.

speaker1: tommy get the van. 
speaker2: i have it, it's waiting. turkish jumps into the ring and grabs micky.
speaker1: we are off micky, hold tight, and move quickly. ,

speaker1: right lets get outta here. 
speaker1: where's the car ken?
speaker2: i t ' s coming now.
speaker1: we are outta here.

speaker1: very nice lincoln. 
speaker2: veeeery nice lincoln.
speaker2: well where is it?
speaker3: next door.

speaker1: look what your dog's done to my leather. 
speaker2: it's a bit funky in here.
speaker3: you keep a good house lincoln. so where's this stone?
speaker4: it was over there.
speaker3: where?
speaker4: we left it in a box over there... somewhere.
speaker4: i t ' s empty.
speaker3: tony.
speaker2: dear oh dear.
speaker5: he's not about, we left it there. it must be in the dog.
speaker3: well let's have a look shall we? . . . . tn . oy all eyes focus on tony.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: have a vlook in the dog.

speaker1: what do you mean have a look in the dog? 
speaker2: i mean open him up..
speaker3: i t ' s not a tin of baked beans, what do you mean open him up?
speaker2: i mean open him up.
speaker3: that's a bit strong isn't it?
speaker2: you wouldn't have a problem if it was a person.
speaker3: but it's not, it's a dog and i have never done a dog.
speaker2: my heart bleeds.
speaker4: what dp i do?
speaker2: let me take a wild and reckless guess. stick a knife in his guts and see if it's got a diamond in there? i'll hold it still and'you open it up.
speaker3: hell, alright then.
speaker5: you can't do that.

speaker1: well do it to you as well if it makes you feel any better. 
speaker2: i t ' s squeaking.
speaker1: what, you've never heard a dog squeak before?... hold him still.
speaker3: stop! i can see it. i can see the stone.
speaker1: well let's see it.

speaker1: well they aren't here now are they? and i can't see a dog can you? 
speaker2: they can't be far.

speaker1: you gonna have to come up with something. 
speaker2: there they are.

speaker1: well he's didn't come back to us. 
speaker2: but he always came back.
speaker1: well you might have noticed that we have moved, you should have fed him more, a dog will never leave you if you feed it properly. it was a good dog, he had a little flatulence problem but was a good dog.
speaker3: are you sure he's not here?
speaker1: i think i would have noticed if a dog was sitting in my caravan don't you? tommy, turkish, have you seen a dog sitting in me caravan?
speaker4: i can't say i have micky.
speaker1: see there you have it.

speaker1: do you mind if we have a look around? 
speaker2: what the fuck's got into you lot? it's only a dog. i'l l give you another one, if it means that much to you.

speaker1: you better find me that dog, skinny vinny. 
speaker2: i looked after your car for ya.
speaker1: so?
speaker3: so aren't you gonna pay me?
speaker4: yeah bollocks.
speaker3: to you, you tight git.
speaker5: watch your mouth you cheeky shite.
speaker3: yeah ya.

