speaker1: it's a slow leak. 
speaker2: what's slow?
speaker1: maybe twenty gallons an hour.
speaker3: where from?
speaker1: amidships starboard at the beam. just under the waterline. i don't think it's a problem.
speaker2: hear that, dodge? epps don't think it's a problem.
speaker3: i'll sleep good tonight knowing that.

speaker1: greer to murphy. 
speaker2: go.
speaker1: the number nine on the starboard side's half flooded. epps says it's a slow leak just under the waterline, about twenty gallons an hour. they must've pumped it before we left sitka.
speaker2: of course they did.
speaker1: let the buyer beware.
speaker2: what do you say, dodge?
speaker3: if it started out at twenty an hour the piece of shit'd be at the bottom of the gulf by now. whether it'll make st. lawrence is anybody's guess.

speaker1: i thought you say tuesday. 
speaker2: better late than never.
speaker1: what's this?
speaker2: you got a leak in the number nine compartment.
speaker1: no, no. you got leak.
speaker2: you pump it out and re-seam the hull, she'll be good as new.
speaker1: that cost me twenty grand at least.
speaker2: fifteen, at the most.
speaker1: twenty. you knock off twenty and then we see. after my guy looks at it.

speaker1: you're kidding, right? 
speaker2: you want fair pay, make hamburger for mickey d. otherwise, please to sign.
speaker3: not bad for dragging a leaky tub half way to russia.
speaker1: he'll sell the scrap for three times what he paid.
speaker3: i must be in the wrong business.
speaker1: you got that right.
speaker3: better than "making hamburger for mickey d."

speaker1: looks like epps' gonna get some tonight. 
speaker2: with that coxswain
speaker3: you aren't jealous, are you dodge?
speaker2: are you kidding me? jealous? epps? gimme a break.
speaker2: what a laugh.
speaker4: i'll show you,
speaker5: you want to mess with me, i'll kick your ass, girl.

speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about. i just bought this guy a beer. 
speaker2: this "guy" is my man, honey.
speaker3: darlene --
speaker2: you, shut up.
speaker1: listen, i don't want any trouble, okay -- ?
speaker2: uh-uh. no. we're gonna fix this right now.
speaker4: what seems to be the trouble, ladies?
speaker5: whyn't you mind your own business, chief.
speaker4: as i said, what seems to be the trouble?
speaker5: didn't you hear me, grandpa? or you got your hearing aid turned down?
speaker4: i heard you. but i'm choosing to ignore you. epps, let's go.
speaker5: these ladies was having themselves a discussion and you're interrupting it.
speaker4: you got about two seconds to get your paws off me, tarzan.
speaker5: or what?
speaker4: epps?
speaker3: wait.
speaker3: darlene. it's over.
speaker3: i don't love you anymore.

speaker1: morning everybody. 
speaker2: show your tatoos to that coxswain last night, did you epps?
speaker1: showed him a of a lot more than that.
speaker2: i bet you did.
speaker3: candy?
speaker1: it's my pen name.

speaker1: red sky at night, sailor's delight. 
speaker2: red sky in morning, sailor take warning.

speaker1: it. 
speaker2: one more?
speaker1: why not.
speaker1: what is your first name?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it just occurred to me i don't know your first name. all this time and i don't know it.
speaker2: maureen.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: maureen.
speaker1: maureen?
speaker2: what's yours?
speaker1: roger.
speaker2: roger?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: you think that's funny
speaker2: no.

speaker1: greer to murphy. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: there's a large vessel out about ten miles to the north-west.

speaker1: i been watching it for close to an hour and it hasn't moved. i can't raise it on the radio either. makes me think it might be in trouble. 
speaker2: alright. i'll be right up.

speaker1: merchant vessel at position one seven four one five west, five seven seven five north. 
speaker1: this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over.
speaker1: merchant vessel at one seven four one five west, five seven seven five north, this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over. again, only white noise comes back as the point flashes on the screen.
speaker1: too deep to anchor out there.
speaker2: looks like it's adrift.
speaker3: could be a fishing boat.
speaker2: too big. more like a freighter.
speaker1: what the would a freighter be doing up here? it's way out of the lanes. there's not a port for 800 miles.
speaker4: smugglers maybe.
speaker2: smuggling what? tundra grass?
speaker1: merchant vessel at position one seven four one five west, five seven seven five north, this is tugboat arctic warrior. do you copy? over.
speaker2: call the coastguard?
speaker1: steer to one eight five. let's check her out.

speaker1: alright. back it off. 
speaker1: hit the lights.

speaker1: whoa, whoa. 
speaker1: "chimera."
speaker1: chimera.

speaker1: this is civilian tugboat arctic warrior. is there anyone aboard? 
speaker1: chimera, i am hove to at your port bow. is there anyone aboard?
speaker1: epps, come with me. you guys sit tight.

speaker1: talk to me, skipper. 
speaker2: we're in a stairwell just under the main superstructure.
speaker2: this is definitely an old boat, maybe sixty years old. she hasn't been in service for at least twenty years. probably a lot longer.
speaker2: it's funny.
speaker1: how's that?
speaker2: besides a little rust, everything's pretty well-preserved.
speaker2: how she got out here is one of a good question.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker1: murphy.
speaker1: murphy, goddamit.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: what is it?

speaker1: probably slipped her moorings, got tangled up in a current. 
speaker2: out here? what, so a seven hundred foot passenger liner drifted out of spokane harbor and nobody managed to bump into her until now?
speaker1: somebody's probably looking for her as we speak.
speaker3: whatever the reason, she's adrift and abandoned. we've got every right to salvage her.
speaker4: you mean tow her back? that's a thirty thousand ton ship you're talking about.
speaker3: we've done it before.
speaker1: yeah, from one side of the harbor to the other. but we got half the bering sea and the whole alaskan gulf to drag her over.
speaker3: you have any idea how much a ship like that could be worth in salvage? the fittings alone could go for a few million.
speaker1: if you get it back in one piece.
speaker3: it's a risk i'm willing to take.
speaker4: all we got to do is hit some rough weather and you can forget about it.
speaker3: so we cut her loose and wait it out. a little weather couldn't be anything she hasn't seen before.
speaker1: it's a navigation hazard. one boat can't control a ship that size.
speaker3: the thing's been floating around for knows how long and it hasn't hit anything yet. so we take it easy. a little of the old push pull.
speaker3: listen. forget this job's just a pay check for a minute. you know i've been good to you. but i'm prepared to offer you something better now. if we do this right, it's worth a lot of money. a lot of money.
speaker2: go on.
speaker3: salvage fees on a vessel like this could come in around four million bucks. at least. who knows, could be more. could be a lot more. what i'm proposing is... we split it four ways.
speaker3: think about it. a million bucks a piece. you want to spend the rest of your days drag-assing tank barges on the gulf coast, fine. otherwise, let's get to work.

speaker1: united states coastguard, united states coastguard, united states coastguard. this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over. after a moment, a distance-warped, coolly professional, female voice comes back. 
speaker2: arctic warrior, arctic warrior, arctic warrior. this is united states coastguard station north island. over.
speaker1: north island, i wish to declare myself salvor-in-posession under section four two charlie of the international maritime convention.
speaker2: affirmative, arctic warrior. what type of vessel?
speaker1: a passenger liner. over.
speaker2: say again. over.
speaker1: a passenger liner, north island. over.
speaker2: what is the vessel name, registry, and present position? over.
speaker1: passenger vessel "chimera." i will spell: charlie hotel india mary echo romeo alpha. no registry information is available at this time. i have determined to the best of my ability that the vessel has been abandoned on the high seas at position one seven four west, five seven north at... two zero one four hours zulu time. over.
speaker2: affirmative, arctic warrior. please advise your salvage authority pending registry check. over.
speaker1: roger, north island. arctic warrior over and out.

speaker1: okay. we're gonna use a heavier than usual twin cable rig this time, consisting of a pair of number three gauge braided wire tows. we'll tie off through the anchor alleys. and come down to the aft port and starboard pins. here. thus, we need to get two of these... up there. 
speaker1: seeing as though a foot of one of these weighs about a hundred pounds, it ain't gonna be what you'd call easy. any questions?
speaker2: supposing one of those cables breaks under tow.
speaker1: then we'll all be doomed. any other questions?

speaker1: ready? 
speaker2: bring it on, dude.

speaker1: dodge? you alright? 
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: throttle back. 
speaker1: more.
speaker1: more.

speaker1: i figure we go through at the unimak pass here. refuel at sanak island. 
speaker1: with a little extra fuel, weather permitting, we should make sitka in five days without another stop.
speaker2: sounds reasonable.
speaker3: hypothetically speaking, what if we get this boat to sitka and find out somebody wants it back?
speaker2: they shoulda thought of that when they let her float away.
speaker3: i don't care what, ain't nobody just gonna let us walk away with a ship that size.
speaker1: the law's on our side. if they want to challenge it, let them try.
speaker4: they must've scuttled it. nobody just lets a ship float away.
speaker2: nobody just scuttles a passenger liner either.
speaker4: ever heard of insurance, big boy?
speaker1: either way, we found it. it's ours now -- .
speaker2: what the...

speaker1: mother fucker! 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: threw a turbine blade.
speaker1: son of a

speaker1: the number one turbine's pretty well trashed. number two runs, but it's way underpowered. 
speaker2: how long to fix?
speaker1: hard to say. i gotta get in there and have a look. at least a couple days. depending.
speaker3: you think the extra strain caused it?
speaker1: nah. everything was cool. it's just one of those things.

speaker1: some classy tub in it's day, huh? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: check this out.

speaker1: everything's still here. ticket records, receipts, books of account. 
speaker2: one first class passage. elizabeth james. dubayy to halifax. january 29th 1953.
speaker3: chimera. flag ship of the dobbins kirk line. nova scotia.

speaker1: i'd sure like to get my hands on the general log. 
speaker2: that must be the old man right there.
speaker3: looks like one of a stick up his ass.
speaker2: he'd let you off at the nearest port, that's for sure.

speaker1: how about now? 
speaker2: sixty pounds.
speaker1: what? you sure?
speaker2: that's what it says.
speaker1: lemme see.

speaker1: coffee? 
speaker2: yeah. thanks.
speaker1: what'd you find up there?
speaker2: some charts. a crew manifest. looks like her last voyage was january 1953. the question is where the hell's she been since.
speaker1: she was sailing up north, right?
speaker2: her destination was halifax, yeah.
speaker1: well, suppose she got a little further north than she should have. got stuck in the ice. the passengers and crew evacuated. she froze into the ice pack, which moved further north, where it froze in solid. they write it off. fifty years later, the whole global warming thing happens. the ice melts, she gets loose and floats around til somebody runs into her.
speaker2: as reasonable an explanation as any, i guess.
speaker2: ever heard of the mary celeste?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: she was a two-masted brig boat sailing out of new york in 1872. one day she was sighted off the coast of portugal by a merchant vessel, the dei gratia. as the crew of the dei gratia got closer, they discovered that no one was at the helm of the mary celeste. on boarding, they found her completely deserted. the captain, his wife, their daughter, and the entire crew, all gone. the last entry in their log made no mention of any trouble. the table was even set for dinner. and in the nine days after the last entry, she sailed 700 miles without anyone aboard.
speaker1: so what did happen?
speaker2: nobody knows. there've been a lot of theories, of course. but we'll never really know for sure.
speaker1: you think she's sailing without a crew?
speaker2: i think we'd be surprised where a drifting ship might wind up with a little wind and the right current.
speaker1: you're more practical than superstitious.
speaker2: only way to be.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: turbine rotor's shot.
speaker1: i thought you said it was just a blade.
speaker2: metal's crystallized. gotta replace the whole deal.
speaker1: how much longer's that gonna take?
speaker2: like i always say --
speaker1: i know i know, two ways to do anything --
speaker2: the right way and the wrong way.
speaker1: but how long?
speaker2: hard to say.
speaker1: we gotta get outa here, dodge. a storm blows up and we're history.
speaker2: i'm telling you, you don't want to be running that fan like it is.
speaker1: what about running number two by itself?
speaker2: it's a full 2500 horses down. we couldn't drag that boat down hill on ice with it.
speaker1: how long, then?
speaker2: i gotta pull the blades and re-seat everything in a new rotor -- .
speaker1: how long?
speaker2: three, four days.
speaker1: goddamit, dodge.
speaker2: what do you want me to tell you, that we can throw this sucker back in and start pulling her like nothing happened? can't do it, skipper.
speaker3: arctic warrior, arctic warrior, arctic warrior. this is united states coastguard. over.

speaker1: arctic warrior, arctic warrior, arctic warrior. this is united states coastguard station north island. over. 
speaker1: arctic warrior, we have submitted your section four two charlie salvage notification. however, the international maritime authority record for a passenger vessel chimera indicates it was lost at sea in the gulf of oman day two month two year one nine five three. over.
speaker2: north island, please repeat? over.
speaker1: arctic warrior, passenger vessel chimera was lost at sea day two month two year one nine five three. over.
speaker2: north island, have you got any additional information? over.
speaker1: affirmative, arctic warrior. the vessel chimera was registered to the dobbins kirk line, halifax. nova scotia. date of commission day nine month seven year one nine three two. over.
speaker2: roger, north island. i am tied to the passenger vessel chimera. and she is afloat. repeat, she is afloat. over.
speaker1: roger, arctic warrior. i say again, our records indicate the passenger vessel chimera was lost at sea. over.
speaker2: roger, north island. please advise pending further information. over.
speaker1: affirmative, arctic warrior. this is united states coast guard north island station. over and out. a beat as they hold there, thinking about it.
speaker2: obviously it's some kind of screw up. the shipping records aren't a hundred percent accurate.
speaker3: man, it gives me the creeps. we got no business towing a ship that size anyway. i say we fix the turbines and hit the highway.
speaker4: are you crazy? do you realize we got ourselves a ship? we own a ship, dodge.
speaker3: yeah, a ship that's supposed to have been lost at sea fifty years ago. you don't think that's just a little freaky?
speaker5: if this thing turns out to be a ship everybody thought sank a long time ago, we just hit the jackpot.
speaker3: yeah, well how the you get something like that wrong? that's a big boat. it's either sunk or it ain't.
speaker2: we all want to get outa here, dodge. especially me. with that boat in tow. you got three days. make the most of it.

speaker1: fucker! 
speaker2: take it easy, dodge. it's only a piece of metal.
speaker1: mind of it's own.
speaker2: morning, skipper.
speaker3: morning.
speaker2: you're up late.
speaker3: guess i must've fallen back to sleep. where's epps?
speaker1: went aboard.
speaker3: she take a radio?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: what the we gonna do with it? 
speaker2: what the you think we gonna do with it? it's ours, baby. it's all ours.
speaker2: how much you figure that's worth, skipper?
speaker3: hard to say. maybe forty, fifty million.
speaker2: ho, baby!
speaker4: that's a lot of money for somebody to just let float away.
speaker3: yes, it is.
speaker3: it's a of a lot of money.
speaker1: what, you think there's something funny about it?
speaker3: a ship with fifty million dollars in gold aboard, adrift? and nobody seems to care enough to come looking for it?
speaker2: if they thought it was lost at sea, they probably just wrote it off.
speaker3: not for fifty million. an ocean liner maybe. but fifty million in gold, they come looking for.
speaker4: maybe they didn't want it back. maybe the whole fat deal was insured.
speaker3: maybe. but there's always somebody whose interest's at stake.
speaker2: all i gotta say is it looks like that somebody's us right now.
speaker4: and it looks like somebody got here before us too.
speaker1: didn't happen yesterday, i'll tell you that. torn parts rusted bad as the rest of the boat.
speaker3: then it happened before they scuttled her.
speaker4: you mean, before she sank.
speaker2: cargo like this could make a crew think twice.
speaker3: that it could.

speaker1: then why didn't they take it. 
speaker2: probably didn't have time.
speaker3: or somebody stopped them.
speaker4: either way, they must've had a pretty good reason.
speaker1: must be a good reason to jump ship and leave fifty million dollars aboard.
speaker3: so what're we gonna do. that's the big question, right?
speaker4: a salvage claim to a vessel's cargo's as valid as a claim to the vessel itself. it's ours.
speaker3: then we're rich. we're damn, filthy stinking rich.
speaker4: it looks like it.
speaker1: so what? we gonna unload the gold and get a move on?
speaker4: we leave it where it is. stick to the plan.
speaker3: you gotta be kidding? what the we need that tub for, we got fifty million bucks?
speaker4: so we get a little more for the boat. besides, the gold'll be safer where it is.
speaker1: yeah, but we still gotta haul that big piece of all the way back to sitka.
speaker4: it's worth the effort. believe me. besides we're gonna need her to prove the salvage.
speaker2: why not call for help?
speaker4: for now the best thing we can do is to keep quiet about this.
speaker3: last thing we want is extra partners.
speaker2: or uninvited guests.
speaker1: i heard that.
speaker4: dodge, you gotta get on those repairs.
speaker3: yeah, yeah. i'm on it.
speaker4: the sooner we get under way, the sooner we are to spending what's ours.

speaker1: two hundred twenty. two twenty one. two twenty two. 
speaker1: two hundred twenty two kilograms of solid gold.
speaker2: that's what i call a payday.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: murphy! 
speaker1: propane tanks're gonna go!

speaker1: one minute i'm minding my own business, the next thing i know the whole place is burning up. an oxygen tank must've blown on the welder. started an oil fire. 
speaker2: looks like it took out the backup genny too.
speaker3: terrific.
speaker3: how's that leg?
speaker1: seen better -- ow!
speaker4: this's gonna hurt a little.
speaker1: thanks for the warning -- ow!
speaker2: what now?
speaker3: we could call for help.
speaker2: and get a bunch of fools sniffin' around here?
speaker4: what other choices have we got?
speaker1: i tell you one thing, we're not gonna be towing no ship now.

speaker1: united states coastguard, this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. radio check. over. 
speaker2: arctic warrior, arctic warrior, arctic warrior. this is united states coastguard station north island. your radio check is affirmative. over.
speaker1: roger that, north island. arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over and out.

speaker1: fifty million four ways. that's twelve million and change a piece. what you gonna do with your share, skipper? 
speaker2: not much at all, i guess. retire. live out my golden years and all that.
speaker3: i'm buyin' me a nice outrigger. spend my time hauling rich seattle business men through the puget.
speaker2: how about you epps?
speaker4: guess i'll just keep working.
speaker3: what're you crazy?
speaker4: i like my job.
speaker2: greer?
speaker1: moving to sweden.
speaker3: what's so great about sweden?
speaker1: it's a beautiful country. very clean. very civilized. and cold.
speaker4: that's a good thing?
speaker1: hell, yeah. i like it cold. colder the better.
speaker3: yeah, but not as cold as those swedish girls you only gonna dream about.
speaker1: we'll see who's dreamin', m'man.
speaker2: dreamin's all any of you're gonna be doing if we don't get this boat running.
speaker3: yeah, yeah.

speaker1: what the is that? 
speaker2: it's coming from inside.
speaker3: sounds like the hull.
speaker4: warm water current maybe, making the metal expand.
speaker1: that is seriously bizarre.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker1: hey, wait a minute! hey!
speaker2: take it easy, you'll live longer.
speaker1: did you see him?
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the guy. he just came this way.
speaker2: what guy?
speaker1: there's somebody else on this boat.
speaker2: what? what the hell're you talking about.
speaker1: i saw him. just a minute ago. some guy.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: of course i'm sure. i saw him.
speaker2: you sure it wasn't me?
speaker1: it wasn't you. it was somebody else. there's somebody else aboard.

speaker1: light in those passages ain't so good. 
speaker2: i'm telling you, i saw somebody. i don't know who it was. but i saw somebody.
speaker3: what'd he look like?
speaker2: maybe six feet. lanky. i didn't get a good look. he was far away. but i saw him. i saw him as sure as you're standing there.
speaker1: where's his boat, then? where's his crew? he ain't gonna be out here by himself, that's for sure.
speaker3: she's so big somebody could come alongside her on the other side and we'd never know it.
speaker2: maybe that is his boat.
speaker1: gimme a break.
speaker4: if somebody's aboard her already, she ain't ours. she's theirs.
speaker1: that boat hasn't made steam for fifty years. we found her. she's ours.
speaker4: not in the eyes of the law.
speaker2: so, we find this guy and make a deal with him.
speaker4: we don't exactly have the best bargaining position.
speaker1: i say the motherfucker. we're a professional salvage crew going about our business. what's some yahoo doing way out here by himself anyway?
speaker4: and what do you propose? that we knock this guy off?
speaker1: why not? why the not?
speaker1: fifty million dollars. fifty million. we gonna let this guy just take it from us? one guy?
speaker2: so we kill him?
speaker1: i'm saying we gotta do whatever we gotta do to preserve our interest.
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker4: let's just take it easy here, alright? nobody's gonna kill anybody.
speaker3: supposing he wants to get bad with us?
speaker1: one guy isn't gonna be so stupid.
speaker2: maybe he isn't alone.
speaker3: i say we off-load some of that gold now.
speaker4: would you hold on just a minute here, please? look, there's no reason to panic now. epps saw somebody. fine. it's a big boat. chances're real good he doesn't even know about the gold. if we stay cool, nobody'll be the wiser. the gold stays where it is til we're ready to go. like i said, it'll be a of a lot safer there than here.
speaker1: what if that finds it before we're ready to go?
speaker4: we'll stand a watch. four on, eight off. low man first.
speaker2: guess that'd be me. again.
speaker4: dodge, get on that turbine. i don't care if you don't sleep for a week. the sooner you're done, the sooner we can get out of here. how's the food situation?
speaker3: pretty low all around.
speaker4: we'll have to take it easy then. i don't think we'll find much aboard the ship, but it's probably worth looking around.
speaker2: say we run into this guy again.
speaker4: if he's reasonable, maybe we can make some kind of deal. if not. we'll have to re-consider our options.
speaker1: yeah, reconsider his up.

speaker1: pretty handy with that scatter gun, epps. you raised on a farm? 
speaker2: seen a lota movies.
speaker3: no cowboy up there, understand?
speaker2: no cowboy right.
speaker4: coffee.
speaker2: you're a pal.
speaker3: got your light?
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: smokes?
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker2: see you boys later. don't be late, i need my beauty rest.

speaker1: murphy to epps. 
speaker1: murphy to epps.
speaker2: epps.
speaker1: you just shoot at something?
speaker2: yeah. just a bird. just a stupid bird.

speaker1: ho-ly 
speaker2: couldn't have happened much more than a month ago.
speaker2: bodies're too fresh.
speaker3: fresh ain't the first word that comes to mind.
speaker2: greek citizen. merchant navy. obviously we aren't the first to come across this ship. they probably stumbled across it just like we did.
speaker1: and look what happened.
speaker3: barbaric is what it is.
speaker2: could be meant as a warning.
speaker1: stay away. or else.
speaker4: because of the gold.
speaker2: that'd be my guess.
speaker3: so whoever did this might still be around.
speaker1: maybe epps's mystery man had something to do with it.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker4: so, what? we report this? call the coastguard?
speaker3: let's not be too hasty.
speaker1: yeah. hell, what difference does it make if we report it now or later? we call this in now, gonna be coastguard, fbi, who knows who, all over the place.
speaker2: dodge, if this isn't incentive enough to fix that boat, i don't know what is.

speaker1: all the seals and gaskets're shot. anything that was rubber burned up. 
speaker2: can't you use something else?
speaker1: i might be able to find something on the ship. but it's gonna take time.
speaker2: do what you need to do. just do it fast.
speaker1: right.
speaker1: i need lag bolts, especially one inch standard. and sheet metal. preferably steel, about a sixteenth of an inch. aluminium, even tin'll do.
speaker3: i ain't no mechanic, just so you know.
speaker1: you find anything that even looks like a compressor. i don't care what, grab it.

speaker1:  
speaker1: dodge?

speaker1: murphy takes the radio. 
speaker2: this is murphy. anybody trying to call me? over.
speaker2: greer? dodge?

speaker1: "cock-a-doodle-doo," said the rooster to the crow. "where are you now? i know, but won't say so." 
speaker2: who is this?
speaker2: who is this!!
speaker1: penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy.
speaker2: greer! dodge!

speaker1: dodge to murphy. 
speaker2: murphy.
speaker1: you better get down here quick, skipper. i'm on "c" deck. cabin 400.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: i think you better see this for yourself.

speaker1: i found him like this. 
speaker2: oragishlaoomnudrasadrafantoshviska getofedobrodijotosiantosg.

speaker1: i'm no doctor. but i'd say he's in a coma. 
speaker2: a what?
speaker1: i don't know what else you'd call it. he's breathing on his own, but his pupils are completely blown out. he's totally unresponsive to pain. what happened up there?
speaker2: i heard a scream. when i got there i found him on the floor. he was having some kind of seizure. i didn't see anybody else.
speaker3: he must've seen something.
speaker1: other than the obvious, there's nothing wrong with him that i can see, not on the outside.
speaker2: then what the happened to him?
speaker3: just before i heard him yell there was somebody on the radio.
speaker1: greer?
speaker3: i don't know. no. not greer. somebody.
speaker3: it was a man's voice. repeating some sort of children's rhyme. i don't know, it didn't make any sense. you didn't hear it?
speaker2: not me.
speaker1: he needs a doctor.
speaker3: i'll call us in. dodge, see how many signal flares you can scrounge up. keep an eye on him.

speaker1: united states coastguard, united states coastguard, united states coastguard. this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over. 
speaker1: united states coastguard, united states coastguard, united states coastguard. this is tugboat arctic warrior whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. over.
speaker1: mayday. mayday. mayday. to any vessel. this is arctic warrior. arctic warrior. arctic warrior. whiskey alpha sierra bravo four zero niner two. last known position one seven four west, five seven north. i am afloat and drifting. require immediate medical assistance for one person, possibly comatose. i am a one hundred twenty foot civilian tug, hove to at port bow of disabled passenger liner chimera. i repeat, chimera. over.

speaker1: how's he doing? 
speaker2: same. any luck?
speaker1: no. i'll try again later.

speaker1: possibly false. hence the ima record of being lost at sea. i don't think mutiny's out of the question here. 
speaker2: on a passenger ship in 1953?
speaker1: if they knew what they were carrying.
speaker3: you're saying they mutinied for the gold?
speaker1: if they were close enough to shore, they probably figured they could get away in the lifeboats.
speaker3: only something must've gone wrong.
speaker2: yeah, way wrong.
speaker2: so. i got a question. just from a, you know, purely technical standpoint. we call the coastguard. coastguard shows up. what exactly is the plan?
speaker1: how do you mean?
speaker2: well, they're gonna be asking a lot of questions. about us. about those bodies. about the gold. seems like we oughta be prepared is all.
speaker1: i guess the best strategy's just to tell them the truth.
speaker2: yeah, well. the truth is one thing. when there's more than a few hundred million dollars involved, that's a whole new deal.
speaker1: what do you propose?
speaker2: for starters, getting that gold off the ship. what they don't know about isn't gonna bother them.
speaker1: there's no way we're gonna hide a few thousand pounds of gold from the coastguard here. besides, it'll be safer where it is.
speaker2: with all due respect, skipper. part of that up there's mine. i'd kinda like to have a little say in what happens to it.
speaker1: tell you what, dodge. once we get back to shore, you can do whatever you want with your share. but until then, the gold stays right where it is.

speaker1: just what the do you think you're doing?! 
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about?
speaker1: i think you know.
speaker2: maybe you can tell me then.
speaker1: the radio!
speaker2: the radio. oh, yeah, the radio.
speaker2: take it easy, willya? what about the radio?!
speaker1: you smashed it!
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: don't lie to me!
speaker2: what the -- ?
speaker1: you didn't want us calling anybody. too liable to ruin your big payday.
speaker2: i didn't touch the radio.
speaker2: i didn't touch the radio! ever occur to you there's somebody else on that boat, skipper?
speaker1: conveniently enough for you.
speaker2: look, i didn't touch it. alright?
speaker2: 
speaker3: murphy.
speaker3: it's greer.

speaker1: never been more thirsty in my life. 
speaker2: drink up then.
speaker2: how're you feeling?
speaker1: lost my sea legs.
speaker3: any dizziness?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: headache, nausea, lights?
speaker1: lights?
speaker3: sudden flashes of light.
speaker1: i feel fine.
speaker4: what day is it?
speaker1: i don't know. tuesday?
speaker4: wrong. it's friday.
speaker3: try wednesday.
speaker4: right. wednesday.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: you don't remember?
speaker1: last thing i remember i was aboard the chimera. down somewhere in there scavenging around.
speaker2: you've been out for about a day.
speaker1: say what?
speaker2: dodge found you out cold in one of the cabins.
speaker1: oh, man.
speaker2: we heard you scream. any idea what you might've seen?
speaker1: i wish i could tell you. i'd be real interested to know myself.
speaker2: the ah... the radio's out.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: somebody took it out of commission last night.
speaker2: smashed it up pretty bad.
speaker3: but, who -- ?
speaker4: the skipper seems to think i did it. that i'm more interested in that gold than my own safety or the safety of my fellow shipmates.
speaker3: did you?
speaker4: no. you think i'm crazy?
speaker2: regardless of how it happened, there isn't much of a chance to fix it. the odds of another vessel in range of the walkie-talkies are almost astronomical. so, as of today, we're pretty much on our own out here.

speaker1: murphy. 
speaker1: looks like part of the general log.
speaker1: "the crew have gone mad with greed and fight among themselves like wild dogs over fresh kill."
speaker2: february first.
speaker1: the same day she supposedly went down.
speaker2: must not've been the captain's entry. he was probably out of the picture by then.
speaker1: "their lacking diligence has undoubtedly caused the collision. distress calls have been made."
speaker2: collision? with what?
speaker1: the page's missing. then their sos was real.
speaker2: but where's the damage?
speaker1: maybe the other ship took the worst of it.
speaker2: if it was a ship she hit.
speaker3: dodge to murphy!
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: you better get down here right now! we're taking water! big time!

speaker1: what the happened! 
speaker2: turbine chamber on number two must've blown! took out part of the hull!
speaker3: we're not gonna be able to pump it!
speaker1: alright. everybody grab your gear! this' is where we get off!

speaker1: that just about says it all. 
speaker2: rotten stem to stern. guess you couldn't expect much else.
speaker2: we ain't exactly in what you'd call your high traffic neighborhood either.
speaker1: the coast guard has our last position. they'll send somebody out soon enough. a ship this size you can't exactly miss.
speaker3: it's a good bet they'll be asking a lot of questions when they get here too.
speaker1: let 'em ask. this ship's legally ours now.
speaker4: when they find out what it's carrying, they may not be so interested in what's legal.
speaker2: maybe you shoulda thought a that before you scuttled our boat.
speaker4: the turbine blew.
speaker2: lemme see, was that before or after the oil fire?
speaker1: easy, easy.
speaker2: gettin' a little hot under the collar, i'd say.
speaker1: shut up.
speaker2: must be a little too the truth, eh dodge?
speaker1: i said, shut the up.
speaker1: both of you. i don't want to hear it again.
speaker1: so just stow it. you understand? we don't need this right now.

speaker1: you shouldn't be down here alone. 
speaker2: just wanted to check on our little baby.
speaker2: that oughta buy a man pretty much anything he wants.
speaker1: if money can buy what he wants.
speaker2: i don't figure there's much i want money can't buy.
speaker1: then you're a lucky man.
speaker1: we'll stand the watch on deck tonight. you're up first.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: you must leave. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: there's great evil here, more than you can know. leave now or you may never leave.
speaker2: but --
speaker2: my god....
speaker2: no!!
speaker3: you okay?
speaker2: yeah. yeah, fine.

speaker1: you'd think on a ship this size there'd be something left to eat. 
speaker2: after fifty years there ain't nothin' left but shoe leather.
speaker3: tomorrow we'll see if we can't find some line and tackle. use some of those bodies below decks for bait.
speaker1: there's a charming thought.
speaker2: we can always start shooting birds.
speaker1: what say, epps? you up for some roasted albatross?
speaker4: why not?

speaker1: looks like we're in a strong current. must be making almost five knots full on backwards. 
speaker1: nasty little swell outa the north west too.
speaker2: let's just hope somebody sees us first out here.

speaker1: it's a noaa buoy. 
speaker2: a what?
speaker1: government weather. it's got a transmitter aboard.

speaker1: murphy corrects. 
speaker2: higher. you're gonna miss it.

speaker1: we're still drifting. 
speaker2: the mooring hasn't come taught.
speaker3: it's not gonna hold us.
speaker2: doesn't matter.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: couldn't sleep.
speaker2: wish i could say the same.
speaker1: what do you think happened on this boat?
speaker2: i guess that's the sixty four thousand dollar question, isn't it?
speaker1: the what?
speaker2: never mind. before your time. i think at least some of the crew went a little nuts. the usual stuff that happens when people stumble on a fortune. equal parts greed and paranoia, usually resulting in homicide. what happened after that is anybody's guess. but, judging by our greek friends down below, it doesn't look like the last time.
speaker1: are we smart enough to avoid that?
speaker2: i don't know, are we?
speaker1: when you found me yesterday, at the pool. i'd seen... something. someone.
speaker2: not our mystery guest again.
speaker1: no. someone else. a girl. i'm not sure she was... real.
speaker2: not real?
speaker2: what, like some kind of ghost?
speaker1: i don't know what else you'd call her. one second she was there, the next she was gone.
speaker1: and i had a kind of hallucination. there were others. i saw them in the pool. drowning. a beat as murphy looks back, as she sees him.
speaker1: maybe hallucination is the wrong word. it was more than that. as though they were showing me.
speaker2: showing you what?
speaker1: what happened.
speaker2: maybe it was one of them did the handy work on those greeks.
speaker1: no. i think they are, were, just passengers. innocent victims.
speaker2: victims of what?
speaker1: something bad happened here, murphy.
speaker2: that much i think we've already established.
speaker1: more than just a mutiny. more than just the gold.
speaker1: she said the ship was evil. that we had to leave right away. that if we didn't, we might never leave.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: why you? how come the rest of us haven't seen these people?
speaker1: just lucky i guess.
speaker2: well. getting off this ship's exactly what we're trying to do. short of that, i don't know what else to tell you.
speaker2: do me a favor and wake up dodge. he's next on.
speaker2: and epps?
speaker2: you can tell the others about this. but, for my money, i think it's best you keep it to yourself.
speaker1: dodge. dodge.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: get up.
speaker3: yeah, yeah.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: don't fall asleep.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: "cock-a-doodle-doo," said the rooster to the crow. "where are you now? i know but won't say so." dodge hits the talk button. 
speaker2: who is this?
speaker2: identify yourself,

speaker1: penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy. 
speaker1: penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy --

speaker1: dodge? 
speaker2: check it out.
speaker3: i don't even want to know what that's gonna taste like now.
speaker2: better than starving to death.
speaker1: murphy to epps.
speaker2: epps, over.
speaker1: either of you seen dodge?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: he's not on deck and i can't raise him on the radio.

speaker1: he took the shotgun and a light. 
speaker2: must've heard something below deck and went down to check it out.
speaker1: alright. we stay together. nobody goes any further than earshot.

speaker1: murphy to dodge. do you copy? over. 
speaker1: epps? you there?
speaker2: right here.
speaker3: as he moves along as well, eyes open.
speaker1: greer?
speaker4: as greer moves along too.
speaker5: yeah, yeah.

speaker1: sorry. didn't mean to scare you. 
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: yeah. fine. i just thought i heard something is all.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: nothing. let's get outa here.

speaker1: can't find the shotgun. 
speaker2: so whoever did this now has our shotgun.
speaker1: doesn't look like it much matters.
speaker3: what do we do with him?
speaker2: leave him till we can get some help. from now on, nobody comes down here.
speaker1: what about the gold?
speaker2: leave it.
speaker1: now hold up just a minute. let's be reasonable here.
speaker2: you think whoever did this is reasonable?
speaker1: all i'm saying is that gold's worth a lot more to us now than it ever was.
speaker3: i can't believe you. dodge's dead and all you can think about is cashing in your share.
speaker1: i didn't sign up to go home empty handed. and i sure ain't gonna roll over for the freaky did this.
speaker2: nobody's going anywhere with that gold now. anybody tries to board, we'll know about it. you can do what you want, greer. but neither of us is gonna risk saving your down here if it comes to that.
speaker1: fine with me.

speaker1: greer? 
speaker1: you okay?
speaker1: greer!
speaker1: let go!
speaker2: oragishlaoomnudrasadrafantoshviska getofedobrodijotosiantosg.

speaker1: must've been him all along. 
speaker1: smashed the radio. scuttled the boat. killed dodge. would've killed you. he's off his nut, no doubt there.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: could be a stroke. who knows? the general log said the crew were fighting among themselves. "like wild dogs."
speaker1: over the gold.
speaker2: maybe it was more than that.
speaker2: they went crazy.
speaker1: crazy with greed. not crazy. not like him.

speaker1: we lash a few of these together it might get us far enough into the shipping lanes to be rescued. 
speaker1: hard to say which is worse, staying here or taking our chances in open water.
speaker2: if the weather holds it might not be so bad.
speaker1: it's not the weather i'm worried about. the wrong current could drag us as far as the aleutians before we come across another boat.

speaker1: murphy? 
speaker1: murphy, this is epps. do you copy?
speaker1: who is this?

speaker1: "cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. where are you now? i know but won't say so." 
speaker1: penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy. penny whistle toy.
speaker2: "cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. where are you now? i know but won't say so."
speaker2: "cock-a-doodle-doo, said the rooster to the crow. where are you now? i know but won't say so." cassandra, if you insist on playing that while i read i'll just stop right now.
speaker3: sorry.
speaker4: what do you think?
speaker2: he certainly did shorten it, didn't he?
speaker4: i thought this was all the rage.
speaker5: maybe last year.
speaker4: what about this year?
speaker5: it's not your color anyway.
speaker6: i like it, daddy.
speaker4: well thank you!
speaker6: daddy, how much longer before we start moving again?
speaker4: they're working on the engines, honey. as soon as they fix them we'll be on our way.

speaker1: it isn't real. 
speaker1: many bad things have happened here. but you mustn't allow the evil inside. i tell you this because you can see me. the others can't. but you must leave. you must leave.
speaker2: epps to murphy.
speaker3: epps to murphy.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: we hit land.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we're in an island chain. it's only a matter of time before we hit another one.
speaker1: greer's gone. he broke out of the tank.

speaker1: he's been shot. 
speaker2: let's get the out of here.

speaker1: it should be enough to get us to one of those islands. gimme a hand, wouldya? 
speaker1: prop it here. we need to pull these braces off. there's a hammer on the stand. there.

speaker1: i'll take that. 
speaker2: it was you.
speaker2: you killed them.
speaker1: it was only a matter of time before somebody killed somebody. you saw it coming as well as i did. dodge had his plans, starting with scuttling the boat. and greer too, except he went nuts. couldn't take it, i guess. could've happened in the middle of downtown anchorage. but did it make him any less dangerous? i don't think so.
speaker2: so you killed them?
speaker1: the way i figure it, it was them or me. i thought putting dodge up on that pipe was a nice touch? bought a little time. made it look like whoever killed those greeks was still around. but it's just us on this ship. us and your... spirit friends.
speaker2: and now you're gonna kill me, is that it?
speaker1: i didn't want it to turn out this way.
speaker2: murphy, don't you see what's happening?
speaker1: i think i see it pretty well.
speaker2: it's the ship. the ship's making you think this way.
speaker1: i know a little bit about human nature and what i've seen only confirms that.
speaker2: it's a trap. there was no way we were gonna get away with that gold. nobody ever does. it's just the bait. this ship people in and it never lets them out.
speaker1: i think maybe you been on this boat a little too long, with all that supernatural mumbo jumbo. there's nothing supernatural about greed. and that's what it comes down to, pure and simple.
speaker2: i don't give a about the gold.
speaker1: i wish i could believe that. either way, you know what i've done. i've got no choice.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker3: epps scrambles behind a deck vent.

