speaker1: buck up, bertie. the bbc said it wouldn't rain. 
speaker1: never trust the wireless.

speaker1: why wasn't he told? 
speaker2: ten million people listening around the world, mam. possibly more. his brother, and father, have been broadcasting since last year.
speaker3: get on with it. show what you're made of!
speaker4: luh-luh-lords, la-la-ladies, gen-tell-men.
speaker2: i wouldn't miss his highness' maiden voyage for all the world. and on such an important occasion. lang really is a piece of work.
speaker4: no doubt you wish the prince of wales was standing before you today.

speaker1: are you there? 
speaker2: in the lav.
speaker2: "how poor are they that have not patience! what wound did ever heal but by degrees?"
speaker1: pardon?
speaker2: iago...world's greatest villain. just wants to be bad. sorry, no receptionist.
speaker1: i'd be more comfortable in your office.
speaker2: that's for clients. where's mister j?
speaker1: he doesn't know i'm here.
speaker2: that's not a promising start.
speaker1: my husband's seen everyone. they were all useless. he's given up hope.
speaker2: a bit premature.
speaker1: because he hasn't seen you?
speaker1: you're very sure of yourself.
speaker2: i'm sure of anyone who wants to be cured.
speaker1: of course my husband wants to be cured! his position requires public speaking upon occasion. a torment. i fear the requirement may grow more frequent.
speaker2: he should change jobs.
speaker1: he can't.
speaker2: indentured servitude?
speaker1: something of that nature.
speaker2: well, have your `hubby' pop by and give his personal history. i'll make a frank appraisal.
speaker1: doctor...
speaker1: ...i do not have a "hubby". we never talk about our private lives. nor do we `pop'. you must come to us.
speaker2: sorry, this is my game, played on my turf, by my rules. the lady lifts her veil.
speaker1: perhaps you'll make an exception?
speaker2: i thought the appointment was for "johnson"?
speaker1: a name used during the great war, when the navy didn't wish the enemy to know his royal highness was aboard.
speaker2: i'm considered the enemy?
speaker1: you will be, should you continue to be un- obliging. tks/seidler/09/17/08 9.
speaker2: for my method to succeed there must be mutual trust, complete honesty, and total equality. that process takes place in my consultation room. no exceptions.
speaker1: in which case... i should have kept my pledge. i promised my husband i'd stop seeking "the great cure." i've wasted your time. and mine.
speaker2: hell, i buggered that.

speaker1: stand and deliver! 
speaker2: `ow dares molest...jack the ripper?!
speaker2: beware, highwaymen, or i'll run yee through.
speaker3: we're swagmen, not highwaymen, dad.
speaker2: oh.
speaker4: you'll all hang from the gallows if you don't come for tea.
speaker2: boys, i think we'd best go up.

speaker1: had a visit from a lady today. 
speaker2: another spoiled silly?
speaker3: may we be excused?
speaker1: you must stay, bored stupid, listening to your parents' inane conversation.
speaker4: thanks, dad!
speaker1: and mum.
speaker4: and mum!
speaker2: take your plates.
speaker2: no wonder about the silly. you're so good at what you do. tks/seidler/09/17/08 11.
speaker1: at what i do. twas a lady with a capital l.
speaker2: oh, lionel, that'd get us home in grand style wouldn't it?!
speaker1: she came on behalf of her husband. which is not the proper way. i told her i was fully booked. myrtle is clearly disappointed
speaker1: she was...too high and mighty. know what i mean.
speaker2: we wouldn't want that.
speaker2: hard to feel sorry for that sort.
speaker1: had a call. wish me luck?
speaker2: course, lionel. loads and loads.

speaker1: "mr. and mrs. darling and nana rushed into the nursery too late. the birds were flown." 
speaker1: tomorrow, chapter iv, `the flight'. tks/seidler/09/17/08 12.
speaker2: oh, to fly away!
speaker3: weren't they lucky.
speaker4: one would have to learn to fly properly of course.
speaker2: now a daddy story!
speaker3: can i be a penguin instead?
speaker4: the horsie story, please.
speaker3: ah well.
speaker3: once upon a time there were two horsies. a white horse that went clip clop clip clop through hyde park. and a black horse that went clip clop clip clop through hyde park. they met in the middle of hyde park. the white horse said "neigh". the black horse said, "neigh". the white horse continued on, clip clop clip clop through hyde park. the black horse continued on, clip clop clip clop through hyde park. and that's the end of the story. now off to bed. as the girls exit:
speaker4: a silly story really. but father tells it rather well. the girls have gone. tks/seidler/09/17/08 13.
speaker3: david called. he said come round to the fort on friday and stay for dinner.
speaker1: will she be there?
speaker3: i suppose.
speaker1: seriously?
speaker3: seriously, she'll be there.
speaker1: i think i meant... is david serious?
speaker3: about our coming?
speaker1: about her!
speaker3: a married american? twice divorced? he can't be.
speaker1: she can.
speaker5: now?
speaker6: now!
speaker7: "now..." falters, begins again.
speaker7: "now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of york..."
speaker7: "and all the clouds that lour'd upon our house in the deep bosom of the ocean buried. now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths..."
speaker7: what do you suggest?
speaker6: continue to do whatever you do, and hope it gives you a great deal of satisfaction. crushed, lionel retreats behind the curtain.

speaker1: i d-d-don't thu-thu-think i c-c-can. 
speaker2: show who's in command. if you don't, this devilish device will change everything. used to be, all a king had to do was look reasonable in uniform and not fall off his horse. now we must creep cap in hand into people's homes that smell of boiled cabbage, and speak nicely to them. we're reduced to that lowest, basest of all creatures...we've become...actors! don't give me a look of defeated pathos. this is a family crisis!
speaker1: father, we're not a family, we're a firm.
speaker2: we're the oldest, most successful, corporation in the world and sitting on thrones is our business! but any moment now we may be out of work. your brother came to me the other day, livid a certain lady has been refused an invitation to my silver jubilee. i pointed out she wasn't a lady and most definitely wasn't his wife.
speaker1: what did david say?
speaker2: she made him sublimely happy. i said: that was probably because she was sleeping with him. "i give you my word we've never had immoral relations." "as my son, as prince of wales, as my heir, do you solemnly swear your friendship with this woman is an absolutely clean one?" "i do", he said. "look me in the eye," i said. "on my honour" he said. stared straight at his father... and lied.
speaker1: oh my brother...
speaker2: when i'm dead that boy will ruin himself, this family, and this nation, within twelve months. who'll pick up the pieces? david's friend, oswald mosley? his black-shirt british union of fascists are marching through london. hitler terrorizing half of europe, stalin the other half. who'll stand between us, the jackboots, and the proletarian abyss? you?
speaker1: what're you going to say?
speaker2: the usual guff. the archbishop writes it. my people love to hear me say it. spoken fluently, of course.
speaker2: that's the chap who taught me how to use this contraption. you touch your chin with your thumb and the `thing' with the end of your little finger. splendid fellow.
speaker3: good evening, ladies and gentlemen, this is the bbc, broadcasting direct from buckingham palace upon the occasion of the royal silver jubilee. his majesty: king george the fifth.
speaker3: that's how a king speaks. i showed hm how to do it.

speaker1: they didn't come to see us, father. 
speaker2: pretend.
speaker1: where's david?
speaker2: bedding his american whore. come, join the fun! you'll have to do a lot more of this. i'm sending him to the midlands. with all the factory noise they won't hear a word he says.

speaker1: what's needed is cooperation... 
speaker1: ...buh-buh-between the cuh-cuh-classses...
speaker1: is this necessary?
speaker2: you know perfectly well.

speaker1: neglects to tell them what must be done, how its to be done, and who's to do it. 
speaker2: david has `the touch'. they adore him.
speaker2: i'll wager they're saying: there's the useless one who can't speak.

speaker1: there's no receptionist. 
speaker1: the johnsons.
speaker2: not finished yet.
speaker3: how'd you find this physician?
speaker1: classifieds; next to "saucy model, shepherd's market".
speaker1: comes highly recommended. charges substantial fees in order to help the poor. oh dear, perhaps he's a bolshevik?!
speaker3: i'm not sure i want to see this fellow.
speaker1: i'm not sure he wants to see you.
speaker1: perhaps this was a mistake.
speaker4: you can go in now, "mr. johnson".
speaker3: i'm not actually mr ...
speaker4: i know. dr logue says...
speaker2: lionel!
speaker4: lionel says...wait here if you wish. or, it being a pleasant day, take a stroll. was that alright?
speaker2: marvellous.
speaker4: thank you...lionel.
speaker2: mr. johnson, do come in.

speaker1: my wife's favorite colours. 
speaker2: glad we have something in common.
speaker2: my lads build them. make yourself comfortable.
speaker1: please...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're too close. five paces is the rule of thumb.
speaker2: that might be difficult in this office.
speaker2: nice girl, anna. worried she wouldn't find a husband if she couldn't speak. tried to convince her men will find her even more attractive as a silent partner. the perfect woman. sorry, bad australian joke. why'd your wife change her mind and ask for an appointment?
speaker1: i can't discuss that.
speaker2: what can we talk about?
speaker1: that's better. when speaking with a royal one waits for the royal to start the conversation and chose the topic.
speaker2: your joking. that won't work here.
speaker1: i admit if one waits for me to start a conversation one can wait a rather long time.
speaker1: you call this making me comfortable?
speaker2: you call this being forthcoming?
speaker1: aren't you interested in treating me?
speaker2: only if you're interested in being cured. more silence.
speaker2: cuppa tea?
speaker1: no thank you.
speaker2: i need one.
speaker2: any idea what you're letting yourself in for?
speaker1: apparently a great deal of rudeness, doctor logue.
speaker2: call me lionel.
speaker1: i prefer doctor.
speaker2: i prefer lionel. my family calls me far worse. what shall i call you?
speaker1: the duke of york is appropriate.
speaker2: oh please.
speaker1: your royal highness then.
speaker2: much more informal.
speaker1: prince albert? or frederick? arthur?
speaker2: how about bertie?
speaker1: only my family uses that.
speaker2: that's what i'll call you then. we must be true equals.
speaker1: if we were equal i wouldn't be here, i'd be at home with my family and no-one would give a
speaker2: don't do that.
speaker2: sucking smoke into your lungs will kill you.
speaker1: my physicians say it's good for stuttering, relaxes the throat.
speaker2: they're idiots.
speaker1: they've all been knighted.
speaker2: makes it official then. house rules: no smoking.
speaker1: i thought here we're "equal".
speaker2: as a monarchist i thought you'd appreciate these are my digs and here i rule. no smoking. what was your earliest memory?
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: first recollection of the world?
speaker1: i'm not here to discuss personal matters.
speaker2: why're you here then?
speaker1: because i well stutter! and you well can't fix it!!!
speaker2: temper.
speaker1: one of my numerous faults.
speaker2: do you stutter when you think?
speaker1: don't be ridiculous.
speaker2: one of my many faults. how about when you talk to yourself?
speaker1: i don't talk to myself!
speaker2: come on, everyone natters to themselves once in a while, bertie.
speaker1: stop calling me that!
speaker2: shan't call you anything else.
speaker1: then we shan't speak!
speaker1: must i pay for this?
speaker2: loads. now: when you talk to yourself, do you stutter? tks/seidler/09/17/08 25.
speaker1: of course not!
speaker2: proving your impediment isn't a permanent internal fixture.
speaker1: when i give a speech...i stutter!!!
speaker2: bet you a bob you can read flawlessly, right here, right now.
speaker1: easy money. you're on.
speaker2: see your shilling then.
speaker1: royals don't carry money.
speaker2: how convenient.
speaker2: i'll stake you. pay me back next time.
speaker1: if there is a next time.
speaker2: correct, i haven't agreed to take you on.
speaker1: i certainly can't read the bard.
speaker2: `easy money'.
speaker1: "to be or not to be, that is the question. whether it is wiser..." there! tks/seidler/09/17/08 26. reaches for the coin.
speaker2: not so fast.
speaker1: i proved i can't read.
speaker2: you proved you can't listen.
speaker2: a princely bob is at stake.
speaker1: you're playing music.
speaker2: i'm aware.
speaker1: how can i hear what i'm saying?!
speaker2: bertie, you're royal. surely a prince's brain knows what its mouth is doing?
speaker1: you're not well acquainted with royal princes, are you?
speaker2: i want to demonstrate that when you can't hear your voice, you don't stutter, thus proving your impediment is not innate.
speaker1: rubbish.
speaker1: i was terrible.
speaker2: flawless.
speaker1: i know how i sound!
speaker2: would i lie to a prince of the realm to win twelve-pence?
speaker1: i've no idea what an australian might do for that sort of money.
speaker2: souvenir of our first and presumably last encounter. bertie glances at the record. pov - the label: hmv his master's voice.

speaker1: i'm finished with your husband. 
speaker2: i'm finished with doctor logue!
speaker1: lionel.
speaker3: was that...?
speaker1: certainly not. how's it going, mate?
speaker3: william isn't trying hard enough.
speaker1: willie?
speaker4: ddddddoooing ggggggggood.
speaker1: why am i not surprised?

speaker1: the man did parlour tricks and cheated me out of a shilling. 
speaker2: they'll see. he quickly rolls up the window.

speaker1: hello, b-b-bertie. b-b-been waiting long? 
speaker2: three days. where've you been?
speaker1: i was busy.
speaker2: so was i. elizabeth has pneumonia.
speaker1: she'll recover.
speaker2: father won't.
speaker1: he's doing this on purpose.
speaker2: dying?!
speaker1: some sod tipped him off wallis is getting a quickie divorce and we're going to make our marriage a fait accompli. as an act of pure spite, father's trying to depart prematurely in order to complicate matters. the break almost careens off the lane.
speaker2: you believe that?
speaker1: wallis explained it. she's terribly clever.

speaker1: the instruments of succession, your majesty. 
speaker2: you're next? help us. tks/seidler/09/17/08 30.
speaker1: at the appropriate moment, your majesty. the king nods.

speaker1: i want my jewelry divided equally. elizabeth gets first choice. she's not greedy. 
speaker2: may i remind you, you're not the one who's dying, mother.
speaker1: where are the others?
speaker2: lord wigram and dr dawson are making arrangements.
speaker1: what sort of arrangements?
speaker2: they didn't say.
speaker1: and david? fetch him.

speaker1: i'm on with wallis! 
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 31.
speaker1: i know, darling, a talk, even a lovely long talk, is a poor substitute for holding tight and making drowsy. nor making our own drowsies either, as we've had to do far too often lately. til then, sweet love. wally misses me terribly
speaker2: mother says you're late for supper.
speaker1: clocks set five minutes in advance, so as not to be late. when i'm king i shall set them back!

speaker1: lord wigram has requested permission to order the coffin. 
speaker2: the archbishop of canterbury.
speaker3: who the invited him?!
speaker1: nobody. don't swear.
speaker3: somebody should well dis-invite him. father swears.
speaker4: that would be rash.
speaker1: you're not your father.
speaker4: his grace can be a persistent enemy. we need friends.
speaker3: show the toad in.
speaker5: whatever can i contribute in this dreadful hour?!

speaker1: "tranquilly"? "serenely"? 
speaker2: peacefully.
speaker1: "the king's life is moving peacefully to its..." "termination"?
speaker2: close.
speaker1: "...to its close."
speaker2: as a man of letters you're heaven-sent to assist in the editing of our press communique. lang beams.

speaker1: is my father late for death? 
speaker2: we wouldn't want the news delivered by the disreputable afternoon press, would we? the brothers look at him. he expains:
speaker3: who knows what sensational side issues those tabloids might report.
speaker4: perhaps a peaceful termination?

speaker1: three quarters of a gram of morphia and a gram of cocaine injected into the distended jugular vein. 
speaker2: no! that's...
speaker1: you may leave. she does so, sobbing.
speaker1: time of expiration, 11:55 pm. on schedule.
speaker3: long live the king.

speaker1: the look in mother's eyes, it was...ghastly. 
speaker1: what's this thing doing here?!
speaker2: bertie...
speaker1: the man was a total fraud!
speaker1: would you like to hear?
speaker2: not particularly.
speaker1: well i think you should. you should know what goes on. telling me he could help me read flawlessly. lying bastard! listen to this babble!
speaker3: "to be, or not to be, - that is the question: - whether `tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles, and by opposing end them?"
speaker3: tks/seidler/09/17/08 35.
speaker3: "...sea of troubles, and by opposing end them? and by opposing end them? and by opposing..."

speaker1: turn that devil off! 
speaker1: if only one could do that so easily in real life.
speaker2: chamberlain thinks that hitler can be reasoned with.
speaker1: neville is an old woman.
speaker2: that's the direction its going, winston. you're out of step.
speaker1: we'll see who trips and falls.
speaker2: enough pleasantries. i've asked you here because you seem to be the only sensible member of the king's camp.
speaker1: nice of you to say so, stanley.
speaker2: is he willing to be reasonable?
speaker1: depends on the definition.
speaker2: has he seen the light?
speaker1: he has.
speaker1: our monarch basks in the warming rays of a celestial orb. her name is wally. baldwin's face clouds once again.
speaker3: dad?
speaker4: mmmm?
speaker3: time for a shake, dad.
speaker4: you sure?
speaker5: shake! shake! shake!
speaker6: bet its the scottish play.
speaker3: othello!
speaker7: perhaps something with falstaff?
speaker4: "art thou afeard?"
speaker5: caliban!
speaker4: "be not afeard; the isle is full of noises, sounds and sweet airs, that give delight, and hurt not. sometimes a thousand twanging instruments will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices, that, if then i had waked after long sleep, will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming, the clouds methought would open, and show riches ready to drop upon me; that, when i waked, i cried to dream again."

speaker1: doctor logue? 
speaker2: must be a tradesman. off you go, lads. mum should be home from work.
speaker1: logue...?

speaker1: lionel...it's bertie. 
speaker2: my condolences. i didn't expect you.
speaker1: thank you. i didn't expect to be here. may i come in?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: my wife doesn't think it's a good idea.
speaker1: your wife?
speaker2: myrtle.
speaker1: myrtle? myrtle's never met me. i've never met myrtle. may we discuss myrtle in private? its not proper talking about our women on the street. lonel gives him a look, but lets him him.
speaker1: what happened to your shoulder?
speaker2: sore back.
speaker1: what's your myrtle got to do with me? elizabeth doesn't much care for you either, but here i am.
speaker2: that woman has style.
speaker1: which is why she dislikes you. you're far too familiar. may we discuss this properly?
speaker2: you look dreadful.
speaker1: another example of exactly the sort of thing you don't say to a royal. and you're too close.
speaker2: but you're not royal in this room.
speaker1: which is precisely why elizabeth dislikes you. he starts to sit.
speaker2: not there!
speaker2: curtis bi-plane, now a curtis mono-wing.
speaker1: oh i say, i'm terribly sorry. tell your lads i'll buy a new one.
speaker2: you don't have any money. i'll fix it. so, bertie, what brings you here? your father's death? bertie is silent.
speaker2: mine lay rigid, fists clenched angrily at his sides, daring the reaper: take me, you bastard!
speaker1: what was he angry about?
speaker2: i was a great disappointment.
speaker1: thought he'd be proud of you.
speaker2: so did i.
speaker1: a man of stature?
speaker2: a clerk.
speaker1: oh.
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 41.
speaker1: i was informed, after the fact, my father's last words were: "bertie has more guts than the rest of his brothers put together." couldn't say that to my face. your mother?
speaker2: coughed herself to death when i was young.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i remember going to the theatre with her. not real theatre...traveling players.
speaker1: i've been to australia.
speaker2: not where i lived.
speaker1: my brother. that's why i'm here.
speaker2: what's he done?
speaker1: can't say.
speaker2: i'm going home now.
speaker1: you must undersand, i can't puh-puh-puh... his jaw and throat muscles constrict.
speaker2: try singing it.
speaker1: pardon?
speaker2: know any songs?
speaker1: "swanee river".
speaker2: very modern.
speaker1: happens to be my favorite.
speaker2: sing it.
speaker1: certainly not. may i help? always wanted to build models. father wouldn't allow it. i had to collect stamps. he collected stamps.
speaker2: only if you sing. goes like this... "way down upon the..."
speaker1: i know the words! "way down upon the swanee river. ..." etcetera.
speaker2: you didn't stutter.
speaker2: you can with me.
speaker1: that's because you're peculiar.
speaker2: i take that as a compliment. cut some struts from the balsa. sorry, hard to show you what to do at five paces. would you like a cup of tea?
speaker1: no. yes. thank you. tks/seidler/09/17/08 43.
speaker2: you were about to sing an aria concerning your brother.
speaker1: i'm not crooning to the tune of "swanee river!"
speaker2: try "camptown races" then. "the arch of c, he said to me, doo-dah doo- dah..." that sort of thing.
speaker1: i can't talk, or sing, about your future king, doo-dah, doo-dah...
speaker2: my future king? he's your future king too. did that cause friction? knowing he'd grow up to be king, but you wouldn't.
speaker1: certainly not. i've always looked up to david. water's boiling.
speaker2: two lumps or one?
speaker1: i've a sweet tooth. to tell the truth...
speaker2: always preferable. cover it with tissue.
speaker1: ...it was a relief. knowing i wouldn't be king.
speaker2: why's that?
speaker1: i wouldn't have to give speeches!
speaker2: no smoking. what's the age difference?
speaker1: eighteen months.
speaker2: but for eighteen months you would've been king?!
speaker1: we didn't think about it that way, doctor. doo-dah doo-dah. david and i were very close.
speaker2: as you said: eighteen months.
speaker1: as brothers!
speaker2: how close?
speaker1: young bucks... you know.
speaker2: i don't, or i wouldn't ask. did you go after the same girls?
speaker1: upon occasion.
speaker2: princess elizabeth?
speaker1: what an extraordinarily rude thing to say! david did try to be her beau at one point.
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 45.
speaker1: not like my father...he and his brother, when they were young, kept a girl in st john's wood and shared her on alternate nights.
speaker2: now dope the other wing. did david tease you?
speaker1: they all did. "buh-buh-buh-bertie". father encouraged it. "spit it out, boy!" thought it would make me stop. is this necessary?!
speaker2: otherwise the paint will eat through the tissue.
speaker1: i mean the questions!
speaker2: mandatory. tell me more about your storybook childhood. what was your earliest memory?
speaker1: you asked that before.
speaker2: this time i'd like an answer.
speaker1: being born.
speaker2: how can you remember that?
speaker1: december 14th.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: "mausoleum day". prince albert departed on that date. i was named bertie to placate great grandmamma victoria. in return, she hated me because it reminded her of her grief.
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 46.
speaker1: let's stick to medical history please. i'm naturally left handed, which was considered inappropriate.
speaker2: and?
speaker1: i was punished. now i'm right handed.
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: bandy legs. also considered inappropriate. lionel waits.
speaker1: metal splints were made...worn night and day...very painful. now i have straight legs. this is so...tawdry! i need your services as a speech therapist, not grand inquisitor. are you available? or will it be: "myrtle says no?"
speaker2: you sound angry.
speaker1: yes, i told you, i have a temper.
speaker2: angry at me, or at your brother?
speaker1: he's fallen in love!
speaker2: how dreadful.
speaker1: with the wrong sort of woman!
speaker2: what's wrong with her?
speaker1: she's american.
speaker2: some of them must be lovable.
speaker1: this one's divorced. twice. mrs wallis simpson of baltimore. i want david to be happy, but the family, the church, the nation, won't have it.
speaker2: can't they fornicate privately like adults?
speaker1: if only! david used to prefer married women because there was no possible attachment. but now...
speaker2: "queen wallis of baltimore"?
speaker1: please.
speaker2: does sound a bit iffy.
speaker1: i made a smudge!
speaker2: touch it up.
speaker1: you want me to beg for help?
speaker2: i advise you never to beg. especially if you might be king.
speaker1: don't say that!
speaker2: i see. for reasons you cannot disclose, fearing ramifications you will not explain, you feel sufficiently anxious to embark upon a course of therapy in which you have no faith? you already owe me a shilling.
speaker1: i brought it along. you won, fair and square. i'll pay you generously. lionel pockets the coin.
speaker2: i'll continue to ask questions.
speaker1: that's what i was afraid of.
speaker2: nice job.
speaker1: you've someone waiting?
speaker2: i do now.
speaker1: i'd apologize to them in person, but...
speaker2: you don't wish to be seen? slip out the back way.
speaker1: after the funeral...it may be even more difficult. to remain unobserved.
speaker2: you're having second thoughts.
speaker2: i ask too many questions?
speaker1: perhaps the wrong sort.
speaker2: we live in south kensington, small apartment, but no one would see you. lots of planes.
speaker1: you know, lionel, you're the first ordinary englishman...
speaker2: australian.
speaker1: ...i've ever really talked to. sometimes, when i ride through the streets and see a `bloke' i'm struck by how little i know of his life, and how little he knows of mine. cuts both ways.
speaker2: and if you decide to come, bring the duchess. she might be helpful.
speaker1: she might. if i asked. very nicely. and how will myrtle take to our coming into your home?
speaker2: not sure. she isn't speaking to me. wants to go home. after the funeral then?
speaker2: how're you doing, willie?
speaker3: still can't say a sentence.
speaker2: willie?
speaker4: iiiiiii'm much bbbbbbbetter.
speaker2: well done.

speaker1: whereas it has pleased almighty to call to his mercy our late sovereign, king george the fifth of blessed and glorious memory... 
speaker1: ...that the high and mighty prince edward albert christian george andrew patrick david is now become our only lawful king. canons are fired.
speaker2: oh hell!
speaker3: a bad omen, your grace?
speaker2: don't be disingenuous. for our late king's crown to fall from his coffin is not a fortuitous portent. what ever is going to happen next? tks/seidler/09/17/08 51.
speaker3: is that be the motto of the new reign? indeed, will there actually be "a new reign"?
speaker2: winston! i'm deeply shocked.
speaker3: you don't look it.
speaker2: my function requires me to appear serene.
speaker3: that may be increasingly difficult to maintain. i've been informed by no less an authority than the prime minister that our populace has no objection to royal fornication, but will never tolerate adultery.
speaker2: well, since we cannot acquire a new populace, perhaps we need a new king?
speaker3: my turn to be profoundly shocked.
speaker2: scoff, churchill! go on... scoff! but you more than others know full well we'll soon be under siege from the forces of darkness.
speaker3: the winds of war...a gathering storm?
speaker2: oh, you do have a way with words. and who would you suggest to rally the troops, the nation, the empire, the world?
speaker2: a man who cannot speak? in nuremberg stadium, herr hitler mesmerizes millions, whilst the duke of york cannot successfully order fish and chips.
speaker3: would you prefer the next brother?
speaker3: a bi-sexual former drug addict? the unwashed moralistic populace will adore that!
speaker2: the youngest, perhaps?
speaker3: now there's dimness.
speaker2: i must admit...unburdened with brain.
speaker3: thus we're left with david, the rightful heir, who speaks beautifully, even if he talks nonsense. below, the coffin is entering the chapel.
speaker3: come, let us bury one king, before we attempt to bring another to his knees.

speaker1: hear you're taking elocution lessons, lad. 
speaker2: pardon?
speaker1: diction. speechifying. that's the word around town.
speaker2: merely trying to overcome my dreadful impediment...

speaker1: good lord no! i hope to... 
speaker2: replace me? well...today's your chance.
speaker2: my brother will read the coronation plans.
speaker1: i'm not prepared!
speaker1: i...i...i thu-thu-think we should tuh-tuh- table the document.
speaker2: tell the others how mrs simpson is to be accommodated in a special alcove above the altar. now i'll be off. see you at balmoral this weekend, buh-buh-bertie. in the room, they are appalled. bertie stands frozen and shattered.

speaker1: kick it `ere, aye, guv? 
speaker1: nice one. they go back to their game.
speaker2: to be honest, wasn't sure whether to expect you.
speaker3: i wasn't sure either.
speaker2: something happened?
speaker3: do i look like a spy?
speaker2: with a toothache.

speaker1: i was totally unable to speak. 
speaker2: you seldom stutter with me anymore. the boys are a bit untidy.
speaker1: because you're paid to listen!
speaker2: like a verbal geisha girl?

speaker1: home. 
speaker2: what more does a man need,eh?
speaker1: coming from a man who's lived all his life in castles and palaces. tks/seidler/09/17/08 56.
speaker2: somebody has to live in them.
speaker1: somebody does.

speaker1: i couldn't say anything! 
speaker2: you could've refused. don't you know any rude words?
speaker1: what a stupid question! i just said one. bloody. bloodybloodybloody!
speaker2: perhaps a touch more vulgar?
speaker1: certainly not.
speaker2: to prove you know how.
speaker1: bugger!
speaker2: a public school prig could do better.
speaker1: well to you, you beastly bastard!
speaker2: hardly robust.
speaker1: then.
speaker2: see how defecation flows trippingly from the tongue? you don't stutter when you swear. tks/seidler/09/17/08 57.
speaker1: because i'm angry!
speaker2: get angry more often. do you know the f- word?
speaker1: fornication?
speaker2: oh bertie...
speaker1: 
speaker2: bravissimo! now a resounding chorus of...
speaker1: bloody, bloody. bloody! bugger, bugger, bugger! a pounding on the wall.
speaker3: we have children...!
speaker1: this is your fault!
speaker2: sorry, pet! won't happen again!
speaker3: i should hope not!
speaker1: apologies, mrs. logue.
speaker2: first time i've heard you laugh.
speaker1: royals aren't allowed emotions in public.
speaker2: which explains a lot. bertie is in no mood to be provoked.
speaker1: what do you want me to do, dammit!? stage my next public appearance as an obscene operetta?!
speaker2: your next public appearance should be very well rehearsed.
speaker1: don't take liberties! you're a dangerous man, logue. who sent you?
speaker2: anyone in mind?
speaker1: the lurking shadows. courtiers and peers...the whole panoply of a class which once ruled the nation which once ruled the world, afraid of losing their last vestige of privilege if the monarchy is further debased.
speaker2: your wife was the one who sought me out.
speaker1: because, dear sweet deluded woman, she believes in me!
speaker2: but you don't share her belief? why come here?
speaker1: i'm beginning to ask myself that very same question. your sailing close to the edge, don't push me, doctor logue.
speaker2: lionel.
speaker1: i came here because i was taught from childhood to serve a purpose, and that purpose is to serve. duty is our sole justification for privilege.
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 59.
speaker1: i came here because i was under the illusion you might help me perform that function!
speaker2: not to worry. they say the king can do no wrong.
speaker1: he can things up! and i am not the king. mrs. simpson is seeking a divorce. the coronation is set for the 12th of may. her decree becomes final on the 27th of april. that gives them two weeks to marry and put this issue to rest.
speaker2: and if mr baldwin stops them?
speaker1: that would be a tragedy. i pray to the almighty they succeed. i'll do anything within my power to keep my brother on the throne.
speaker2: does that include debasing yourself?
speaker1: if necessary!
speaker2: your brother knew perfectly well by giving you a document without warning...
speaker1: are you saying he wanted me to fail?
speaker2: are you insisting he didn't? in the future we can parse any document into manageable phrases. you can sing them, swear them, rehearse them til you get the rhythm and flow; that, combined with your growing confidence... bertie doesn't want to hear.
speaker1: growing confidence? growing dread!!! you're a wicked man, lionel logue, trying to get me to thrust myself forward as an alternative to my brother. trying to get me to commit treason! tks/seidler/09/17/08 60.
speaker2: trying to get you to realize you need not be governed by fear. again, why did you seek me out? to take polite elocution lessons so you could attend posh tea parties?!
speaker1: how dare you! i'm the brother of a king...the son of a king...back through untold centuries. you presume to instruct me on my duty? a jumped-up jackeroo from the outback? the disappointing son of an embittered clerk! you're a monster, doctor logue. i'm going to balmoral to spend a pleasant country weekend with my beloved brother. and these sessions are over!
speaker2: now?
speaker4: were you told? we aren't for london.
speaker2: outer mongolia?
speaker4: available, are we?
speaker2: nothing prevents.
speaker4: i believe that's called "desperate for a part!" previous experience?
speaker2: australia.
speaker4: you have played the provinces. righto! let's hear what you can do.
speaker2: caliban?
speaker4: make him deformed. audiences like that.
speaker2: of course.
speaker2: "sometimes a thousand twanging instruments will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices..."
speaker4: thank you! don't abandon your day job. next!

speaker1: you may leave. 
speaker2: haven't finished yet, dad. oh! right!
speaker3: thanks, dad. thanks, mum.
speaker4: lionel?
speaker4: tickets? home?
speaker1: first class.
speaker4: what about your...
speaker1: willie's a problem...not much progress. the others have been referred.
speaker4: what'll you do when we get home?
speaker1: try not to act the toff. teach perhaps.
speaker4: you could...
speaker1: no! i'm not good enough!
speaker4: you gave it a try, lionel.
speaker1: yes, i had a go. thanks to your patience. i just well wasn't good enough!
speaker4: oh lionel! this must've cost you.

speaker1: five hundred year old oaks! part of the hill! removed to improve the view! 
speaker2: how ever does she do it?

speaker1: sexual techniques beyond polite imagination? i realize of course, that may be outside your personal experience. 
speaker2: you've the devil in you today.
speaker1: if anyone should know, it would be your grace.
speaker2: all aspects of mankind are within my venue. did you know, hm has trouble with his glands? churchill almost chokes on his champagne.
speaker1: i'd not appreciated your grace was so well versed concerning things testicular!
speaker2: they were severely damaged by the measles when hm and his brother were naval cadets. tks/seidler/09/17/08 64.
speaker1: a veritable encyclopedic font of scatological information.
speaker2: apparently it affects the quality, although not the quantity, of hm's endeavors.
speaker1: and the brother?
speaker2: unscathed. two daughters. i shepherd my flock in all matters, winston, including multiplication.
speaker3: we must try to be pleasant.
speaker4: your father not dead six months, and that woman throws, "a garden potty." p-o-t-t-y. she's sleeping in your mother's bedroom. and i know perfectly well she calls me `the dowdy duchess", and "cookie".

speaker1: has it occurred to you, as it has only occurred to me, that a monarch with a gland problem, who realizes he cannot produce issue, might not wish to be king...? knowing his lack of issue may well become a major issue indeed. 
speaker2: a dazzling concept...beautifully phrased. a footman announces: tks/seidler/09/17/08 65.
speaker3: their royal highnesses the duke and duchess of york.
speaker4: i came at the invitation of the king.
speaker1: according to the f.b.i.... she is, after all, one of their citizens...our monarch does not possess exclusive rights to mrs. simpson's sexual favours. hitler's ambassador, count von ribbentrop, has been sending her 17 carnations every day...one for each time they've slept together.
speaker2: good lord, winston, we must see to it this empress of the night does not become queen of england!
speaker1: vividly put.
speaker1: allow me to test new waters.

speaker1: i don't need to be told i behaved badly. 
speaker2: on the contrary, mam. court etiquette decrees royalty must be greeted by the official host. in this case: the king. you behaved impeccably. as always.
speaker2: tks/seidler/09/17/08 66.
speaker2: a relative?
speaker1: distant.
speaker2: you're well aware, of course, george iv's wife, mrs. fitzherbert, was very common indeed...and previously married. she signed an agreement that she could never become queen, and their children could not be royal. a rather sensible morganatic arrangement.
speaker1: that was a very long time ago. you're stirring with a rather large spoon, winston. keep in mind, i'm also a distant relative of lady macbeth.
speaker2: i would disremember at my peril.
speaker3: david...
speaker4: wally wants more champagne. i have to fetch it. she prefers that.
speaker3: been trying to see you...
speaker4: been terribly busy.
speaker3: doing what?
speaker4: being king.
speaker3: where did you get that american accent? david...father's not dead six months, yet you've put mrs. simpson in the suite used by our mother?
speaker4: mama's not still in bed, is she?
speaker3: that isn't funny.
speaker4: ssssssorry, d-d-dear b-b-oy!
speaker3: please. no more of that.
speaker4: didn't realize you cared.
speaker3: this could end in disaster.
speaker4: this will end splendidly. with wallis as my wife.
speaker3: whatever will she call herself?
speaker4: queen of england, i suspect. kings do marry. empress of india. the whole bag of tricks.
speaker3: david! the upper classes are terrified anything which clouds the monarchy makes their situation more dangerous. hunger marchers are singing the "red flag" in front of westminster...demanding a republic...i've seen them...
speaker4: herr hitler will sort that out.
speaker3: who'll sort out chancellor hitler?
speaker4: he's much maligned. by the jews, according to wallis. and she's very clever about politics.
speaker3: the man's a monster! our position must remain clear.
speaker4: why's that, old chap?
speaker3: we are a german family!
speaker4: didn't bother anyone during wwi. and kaiser willie was our uncle.
speaker3: because we took an english name! windsor. because we are england. we are the heart and soul of this nation. that must never change.
speaker4: are you already in charge?
speaker3: i'm trying to warn you.
speaker4: am i being threatened?
speaker3: david, your role is to consult and to be advised.
speaker4: sounds like you've studied our wretched constitution.
speaker3: sounds like you haven't.
speaker4: i won't be a lackey to an unwashed politician like stanley baldwin!
speaker3: he's your prime minister.
speaker4: and i'm his king!
speaker3: if you refuse to listen to our government, they have no choice but to resign.
speaker4: i'll form another. there's winston. he'd love to be p.m. we'll create a king's party.
speaker3: to fight a general election in which your marriage is the only topic?
speaker4: i'd risk anything and everything for wallis. don't i have rights?
speaker3: privileges.
speaker4: not the same thing.
speaker3: no.
speaker4: yet an ordinary man may marry for love.
speaker3: we're not ordinary men, david! we were bred to be profiles on a coin. if you were ordinary, on what basis could you possibly claim to be king?!
speaker4: what's the point then? just to look posh? you know...your speech is much improved tonight. hardly a hesitation. yearning for a larger audience, are we?
speaker3: don't say such a thing!
speaker4: is my young brother trying to push me off the throne? sounds positively medieval.
speaker3: i beg of you, don't do this to my wife, my daughters, to me. tks/seidler/09/17/08 70.
speaker4: the politicians will give in. see you at my coronation...bertie. the champagne cork finally pops. he strides off.

speaker1: as you may have guessed... 
speaker1: ...i intend to resign. the royal scandal has weakened my position considerably.
speaker1: no need to volunteer your services, winston. neville chamberlain will take my place, once this royal matter is settled. as chancellor of the exchequer he already lives next door.
speaker2: my opportunity to redecorate will come soon enough, stanley.
speaker1: will it? well, enough chit-chat. the question of a morganatic marriage, as a possible solution, has been put to the dominion prime ministers. after all, hm is their king too. baldwin has a sheath of telegrams in hand.
speaker1: australia: no.
speaker2: david feels there aren't that many people in australia.
speaker1: canada: no. union of south africa: an inappropriate marriage would create a permanent wound. the irish free state: states it is not really their affair, and, bluntly, our english king may marry any he wants, they'll be well out of it.
speaker2: irish.
speaker1: new zealand...wavers.
speaker2: ah, the kiwis!
speaker1: being rather remote, they've not even heard of mrs simpson. hardly a winning hand. silence.
speaker1: this is not about true love, winston. this is about who's in charge. does the king do what he wants, or what his people want him to do? does the king own his nation, or does the nation own their monarch?
speaker2: he won't budge.
speaker1: nor will we.

speaker1: don't dismount. 
speaker2: good of you to see me at this late hour.
speaker1: thought you were in david's camp?
speaker2: i was. "i am now free to tell you how i was jockeyed out of the throne."
speaker1: good lord! my brother wrote that?
speaker2: wallis wrote it for him. i'll burn it. i fear your brother is like the child in a fairy story, given everything in the world, but they forgot his soul. quite happy to bring his nation to the brink of civil war just as we face global conflict.
speaker1: we're not coming to that?!
speaker2: oh, there'll be war, alright. your brother held conversations with the duke of saxe-coburg, your cousin, a ranking member of the party. i have the scotland yard intercept: "who is king here? baldwin or i? i myself wish to talk with hitler, and will do so here or in germany." i doubt england is ready to return to absolute monarchy.
speaker1: surely his motives are misunderstood?
speaker2: "if i don't get my way, when the war comes, hitler will crush everyone, including the americans. the british may not want me as their king, but i'll soon be back as their leader." his intent seems crystal clear.
speaker1: winston?! don't take him seriously!
speaker2: mugs for his cancelled coronation will soon be on clearance sale.
speaker1: you're willing to go along with this?! changing horses in mid-stream is a perilous maneuver!!!
speaker2: depends how badly the horse you're on stumbles.
speaker1: it's not too late, winston, you could form a government on his behalf.
speaker2: i must decline. reluctantly.
speaker2: sorry. i've written a new speech for him.
speaker1: i don't want to hear it! ever!
speaker2: it does have a rather nice turn of phrase.

speaker1: now that i have been succeeded by my brother, the duke of york, my first words must be to declare my allegiance to him. 
speaker2: daddy, who broke our rocking horse?
speaker3: a giant.
speaker1: this has been made less difficult to me by the sure knowledge that my brother has one matchless blessing, enjoyed by so many of you, and not bestowed on me -- a happy home with his wife and children.

speaker1: i too "married the woman i love." tks/seidler/09/17/08 75. 
speaker2: you married a shop girl.
speaker1: a wonderful lass. someone i can talk to heart to heart.
speaker2: using simple words and short sentences. i'm very ordinary.
speaker1: that's why we're suited. i'm just an ordinary bloke.
speaker2: ordinary? you're a man with wild dreams, lionel. mine are so very small. a job, a husband, a home. raising our sons. that's all i ever wanted.
speaker1: me too.
speaker2: is that why, every day, you've spent hours with a man who's about to be king?
speaker1: that relationship is now past tense.
speaker2: yet, for as long as you could, you did what you wanted.
speaker1: i wanted to be a great actor. that's what i wanted.
speaker2: and failing that...
speaker1: i certainly failed!
speaker2: a great healer. always...'great'. where does a shop girl fit in?
speaker1: very snugly, into my heart! always have, always will. tks/seidler/09/17/08 76.
speaker2: trouble is, lionel, when you say that, i still believe it.
speaker3: where's the austin?
speaker4: the palace changed it, your highness.
speaker3: i liked the austin.
speaker4: so did i, sir.
speaker5: you look like a chicken.
speaker6: a rooster.
speaker7: his majesty will address the accession council and take his oath.

speaker1: daddy's home. 
speaker2: your majesty.

speaker1: i don't want to lose you. 
speaker2: how could you possibly?
speaker1: being what we both dread most.
speaker2: dear, dear, man, i refused your first two marriage proposals because, as much as i loved you, i couldn't abide the thought of living in the royal gilded cage. then i realized...you stuttered so beautifully...they'd leave you alone. she takes his face in her hands tenderly.
speaker2: if i must be queen, i will be a good queen. the wife of a very great king indeed. you know what you must do.

speaker1: "had i the heavens' embroidered cloths enwrought with golden and silver light, the bbb..." gets stuck. 
speaker2: we haven't much more time together. give it a go. the doorbell rings. logue is annoyed.
speaker2: there weren't any more appointments today. the bell rings again. he yells:
speaker2: off! anna?
speaker1: "the blue and the dim and the dark cloths of night and light and the half-light..."

speaker1: read it to him. if he doesn't profess his love, he's not a man. 
speaker2: thank you...lionel.
speaker3: that was lovely. don't take any guff.
speaker2: can i tell my harold that's what you said?
speaker3: i'd be honoured. she dashes off.
speaker1: johnson, isn't it? have you an appointment?
speaker3: want me to beg?
speaker1: i told you, kings don't beg.
speaker3: i believe this time a bit of begging might be required. elizabeth says i must eat humble crow.
speaker1: its "crow" or "humble pie". take your pick. tks/seidler/09/17/08 80.
speaker3: i was frightened and took refuge in being `royal'. what i said was unforgivable.
speaker1: and?
speaker3: what's the one essential thing a king must do? he must believe he is king. how can i possibly do that? for pity sake, lionel, i beg you: get me through! i'll pay you another shilling.
speaker1: what're friends for?
speaker3: i wouldn't know.

speaker1: we asked to see your highness because there's the urgent question of what to call your brother. aside from the obvious. 
speaker2: what do you suggest?
speaker1: mr. edward windsor? all he deserves.
speaker2: what has my brother given up on his abdication, other than the throne?
speaker2: wouldn't it be a good idea to find out before coming to me? he cannot be mister, as he was born the son of a duke. which makes him a lord at the very least.
speaker3: very well, lord e.w. it is.
speaker2: and as a lord of the realm, he's entitled to be elected to the house of commons. heading a king's party.
speaker1: unacceptable!
speaker2: so you prefer he takes a seat in the house of lords? again, on behalf of a king's party? is that acceptable?
speaker3: certainly not.
speaker2: but if he's made a royal duke, and called his royal highness, he cannot stand for parliament. nor may he speak or vote in the house of lords.
speaker1: oh i say...
speaker2: the duke of windsor it is. gentlemen. he exits abruptly.
speaker3: not exactly a dummy, is he?

speaker1: splendid. here's another. "she sifted seven thick-stalked thistles through strong thick sieves." at home, twenty-five times, in rapid succession. 
speaker2: those are my hardest sounds.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: shall we invite your wife in now? tks/seidler/09/17/08 83.
speaker1: i wasn't expecting myrtle for several hours!
speaker3: milady?
speaker4: "your majesty", the first time. after that, "ma'am". not malm as in palm, mam as in ham. i'm informed your husband calls my husband bertie and my husband calls your husband lionel. i trust, however, you won't attempt to call me liz.
speaker2: how're they getting on?
speaker1: as to be expected.
speaker3: you may call me "madam logue".
speaker3: may i offer you a cup of tea, ma'am?
speaker4: thank you, madame logue, but i'm waiting to be summoned. silence.
speaker3: you don't like my husband. that's what i was told.
speaker4: i was told the same.
speaker2: do we remain in hiding?
speaker1: i'm not going out there!

speaker1: what do you dislike about my lionel? 
speaker2: i don't wish my husband to be demeaned.
speaker1: i don't want my lionel getting hurt.
speaker2: there's only one thing can save him now: success.
speaker3: we're being cowards.
speaker4: of course. we're sensible men.
speaker3: you should go in.
speaker4: me? you.
speaker3: why me?!
speaker4: you're the royal.
speaker3: being a monarchist, i recognize these are your digs. therefore: here you rule. therefore: you go in. urged by bertie, logue opens the door.
speaker4: oh! hello, lady elizabeth! oh! hello, myrtle darling! what a pleasant surprise.
speaker1: will the yorks be staying for dinner?
speaker2: a previous engagement.
speaker4: some other time, love.
speaker4: good of you to come.
speaker2: harley street is far too public. what is my function here?
speaker4: for me to show you how to pitch in.
speaker2: oh dear, i may not be a `pitch in' type.
speaker4: piece of cake. please assume a supine position on the floor.
speaker2: what?!
speaker4: firm support is needed. tks/seidler/09/17/08 86.
speaker4: breathe deeply...expand your chest... now your stomach...deep into the diaphragm. splendid. how do you feel?
speaker3: full of hot air.
speaker4: well on your way to becoming a qualified political speaker. again... bertie inhales deeply.
speaker4: ... and hold. now, princess elizabeth, be so kind as to sit on your husband's stomach.
speaker2: good grief.
speaker4: gently of course.
speaker2: are you alright, bertie?
speaker4: now exhale slowly...down goes princess elizabeth...inhale slowly...nothing rushed, expanding your chest fully, extending the column of air til it hits the diaphragm...and...up comes princess elizabeth. exhale...down goes princess elizabeth...inhale...up comes princess elizabeth. you get the idea. doesn't have to be princess elizabeth of course, but i thought you'd prefer your wife to one of the staff. now comes the fun part.
speaker2: there's actually more?
speaker4: you will now shout the vowel sounds, all five of them, as loudly as possible, each to last no less than 15 seconds. there's poor coordination between your larynx and diaphragm. princess elizabeth, you can be the official timer.
speaker2: vowel sounds? shouted at an open window? on a public street?
speaker4: anyone who can stand at an open window vibrating loudly in full view of the world can learn to give a public speech.
speaker2: they can also be considered quite dotty. don't even contemplate it!
speaker3: sorry, dear, doctor's orders. aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa... she's right, those two chaps are staring at me.
speaker2: they're always looking at you.
speaker4: you're followed?
speaker2: royal scrutiny, doctor, best get used to it.
speaker3: ...aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyy... ...eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee... are you timing this? iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii... ooooooooooooooooooooooooo...
speaker5: may we be excused?
speaker4: no.
speaker6: we don't want to hear you fight.
speaker4: we're not fighting. your mother isn't talking.
speaker1: you wish me to speak my mind?
speaker4: boys, leave.
speaker7: thank you, dad! thank you, mum!
speaker1: lionel...without warning, i arrive home to find the queen in my parlour.
speaker4: a duchess, she hasn't been crowned yet.
speaker1: lionel, don't quibble!
speaker4: what'd you think of her?
speaker1: does it matter!? she's the queen and he's the king forgodsake! what're they doing here?!
speaker4: why'd you come home so early?
speaker1: lionel...
speaker4: they came for help.
speaker1: what role are you auditioning for now? royal saviour?! who's going to help us?! this will bring us down, lionel. you know it will.
speaker4: when that poor chap first walked into my office, he was a slim, quiet man with tired eyes and all the outward symptoms of the person upon whom a habitual speech defect has set the sign. you saw him today; once more there was hope.
speaker1: you're not listening to me!
speaker4: myrtle, i love you.
speaker1: you say that, but you don't listen when i say, in so many ways, how desperately i want to go home, how i never, ever, intended to stay here. this was to be a holiday trip to see `mother england', and you turned it into quite something else. what happened, lionel? we went to wembley stadium, next thing...you'd cashed in our tickets. he's silent.
speaker1: very well, i shan't talk of this ever again. i will, as always, be supportive of your endeavours.
speaker4: myrtle... i don't deserve a wonderful woman like you.
speaker1: how right you are.
speaker4: but why'd you come home so early?
speaker1: lionel...i was let go. tks/seidler/09/17/08 90.
speaker1: inquiries were made...mr falkoff wouldn't say who...afterwards it was: `with your hubby treating a personage that high and mighty, you won't be needing employment with us, will you, mrs logue?'
speaker4: why?!
speaker1: they're frightened, lionel. of what seems so far above them. i sympathize. i'm frightened too.
speaker4: oh, myrtle. my love...
speaker8: winston, you do read the newspapers?

speaker1: only the vulgar ones. 
speaker1: to our new king.
speaker2: let's sincerely hope.
speaker1: is this a `slightly pregnant pause'?
speaker2: they say he is dim.
speaker1: demonstrably untrue.
speaker2: they say he has epilepsy.
speaker1: patently erroneous.
speaker2: fragile, prone to illness...
speaker1: some correctness in that.
speaker2: ...and will die prematurely. they predict he'll be unable to complete the coronation.
speaker1: what do you propose? shorten the ceremony? or no ceremony at all?
speaker2: my idea exactly!
speaker1: i believed so. but what we need is a pageant of pomp and pomposity to impress the world.
speaker2: what we need, and what we'll get, may be two rather different things. did you hear his pathetic attempt at the accession council? he'll never be able to speak in public.
speaker1: so, we plonk a tinsel crown on his head and lock him in a closet? who then will spiritually lead this great nation into war? who will address the far flung corners of the empire, rallying all to our defense?
speaker2: well...
speaker1: the head of our church? is that what you have in mind? tks/seidler/09/17/08 92.
speaker2: would it be such a calamity?
speaker1: best ask our new king.
speaker2: your majesty.
speaker1: excuse me, sir, duty calls.
speaker3: is this the scene of the crime?
speaker2: what a peculiar thing to say.
speaker3: referring to my assault upon the ears of the listeners.
speaker2: ah, yes, wireless is indeed a pandora's box. i have, however, categorically said no to the bbc's new "radio-with-pictures" gadget. imagine, the unwashed viewing us as we blow our noses or scratch our bottoms.
speaker3: radio with pictures?!
speaker2: it is called..."television". happily, with a transmission range of only fifteen miles this "tv" thing has no future. we shall, however, be forced to permit cinema; the product of which i shall personally edit.
speaker3: that'll keep you busy, removing all my stops and starts.
speaker2: unless of course you'd prefer a quiet ceremony?
speaker3: what exactly do you mean?
speaker2: something...discreet...private. we could pre-record an edited version to be broadcast to the world. or even find an actor with a similar voice.
speaker4: a king based upon deception?
speaker2: if your gentleman from security would give us space, we could discuss this in private.
speaker3: you mean my bodyguard,"crusher?"
speaker2: fret not. as i assured our nation in my recent broadcast: "when his people listen to their new monarch they will note an occasional momentary hesitation in his speech. but to those who hear it, it need cause no sort of embarrassment, for it causes none to him who speaks." you see, i've paved the way. but should you wish to avoid further stress...
speaker4: why not paint him pink and cover him with sequins?
speaker2: pardon?!
speaker4: if you wish to call attention to his anxiety.
speaker2: does your bodyguard know to whom he's speaking? he certainly doesn't know his place!
speaker3: doctor lionel logue, my speech therapist.
speaker2: therapist?! i'd no idea! had i known your majesty was seeking assistance i would've made my own recommendation.
speaker3: dr. logue is to be present at the coronation.
speaker2: impossibly to find room. even for a doctor.
speaker4: just lionel.
speaker3: behind the chair of edward the confessor.
speaker2: the royal box!? your family will be seated there.
speaker3: which makes it most suitable.
speaker2: perhaps i might be able to add a very small stool.
speaker3: two comfortable chairs. one for madam logue. she's a close friend of my wife. the queen.
speaker2: i'll have someone attend to it.
speaker4: and now, if you don't mind, we need the premises.
speaker2: my dear fellow, this is westminster abbey! the church must make preparations.
speaker4: so must bertie.
speaker2: bertie?! we do not call the king: "bertie"! tks/seidler/09/17/08 95.
speaker4: i do. during waking hours we'll need the facilities. it'll be a closed set. no observers.
speaker3: those are my wishes, your grace.
speaker3: you've made a dangerous enemy.
speaker4: wouldn't want him as a friend.
speaker3: and don't ever call me bertie in public.
speaker4: tell me...
speaker3: i sense one of your dreadful questions on the horizon.
speaker4: do you really want to be king?
speaker3: knew it! i haven't any choice.
speaker4: you can be a wounded king who stumbles through his coronation. or, as the arch of c so archly suggests, no coronation at all.
speaker3: what's this, you wait til westminster abbey, then ambush me?
speaker4: i'm simply asking questions... which you seem unable to answer.
speaker3: i'm a sacrificial lamb being led to slaughter! you!
speaker4: quite possibly. but at least i know what i want. you haven't the foggiest.
speaker4: that's quite different. let's get down to work then, shall we? bertie glares at him.
speaker4: as soon as you and elizabeth enter the west door, you'll be greeted with the hymn "i was glad when they said unto me." you won't actually be that glad, because they sing it for a great long time.
speaker4: you'll then show yourself to the various sides of the abbey as the archbishop announces four times in a loud voice, "sirs, i here present unto you..." have you decided your name for when you become king? for when you become a different person?
speaker3: george.
speaker4: like your father?
speaker3: like my father.
speaker4: not albert?
speaker3: given the current situation...too germanic.
speaker4: "sirs, i here present unto you, george, your undoubted king!" tks/seidler/09/17/08 97.

speaker1: a bit dry. tried to keep it warm. 
speaker2: mmm... kedgeree! lovely.
speaker1: you look done in.
speaker2: i've news for you. you're coming to the coronation.
speaker1: i've news for you. i'm not!
speaker2: you must.
speaker1: stand in the rain hoping for a glimpse?
speaker2: royal box. you and i.
speaker1: lionel...i'd need a new dress.
speaker2: rather thought you might. valentine calls from the next room: tks/seidler/09/17/08 98.
speaker3: dad! phone! for you!
speaker2: won't be a sec.

speaker1: "the play's the thing, wherein i'll catch the conscience of a king." he exits. the camera explores various elements: the throne of edward the confessor. 
speaker2: bertie? blast! stepped on lord byron. bertie...?
speaker3: this is not a rehearsal, "doctor" logue. tks/seidler/09/17/08 99.
speaker2: ah, the star chamber inquisition. i wondered when that would happen. and i'd promised myrtle a new frock.
speaker3: "just call me lionel"! never did you call yourself `doctor'. we did that for you. no diploma, no training, no credentials. just a great deal of nerve.
speaker2: want to hear my side of the story?
speaker3: there isn't a "your-side-of-the-story". this is my story. and you've ruined it! its not just the coronation, terrifying enough, its the radio speech to millions afterwards, and the speech after that, and for the rest of my failed miserable life!
speaker2: wembley stadium...
speaker3: you dare remind me?!
speaker2: i was there.
speaker3: then you knew from the start i was hopeless?!
speaker2: my son, valentine, asked, "could you help that poor man?" i replied, "he's too old for me to manage a complete cure, but i could very nearly do it, i'm sure of that."
speaker3: lying bastard!
speaker2: i knew i could help you. you refuse to believe?
speaker3: in you?!
speaker2: in yourself.
speaker3: who the do you think you are?!
speaker2: a failed actor.
speaker3: actor?
speaker2: father wanted me to be a doctor, but i couldn't cut flesh. so i worked in the mines, recited in pubs...
speaker3: an actor?!
speaker2: when the war came, by the time i was ready to be shipped out, the first casualties were limping home. poor buggers, broken in bone and spirit. `lionel, you're good with your mouth, see if you can help these poor sods.' the shell-shocked were the saddest. most stuttered profoundly. far worse than you. muscle therapy helped somewhat, but i found i had to go deeper, as you might well imagine.
speaker3: i know nothing of those poor men!
speaker2: i think you do. they had cried out, and the universe had not listened. so they'd lost faith in their voice. my job was to make them shout in righteous anger: "i have the right to be heard!"
speaker3: i suppose that helped them, did it?
speaker2: make inquiries.
speaker3: inquiries have been made! no credentials.
speaker2: but a lot of success. no training was given.
speaker2: tks/seidler/09/17/08 101.
speaker2: not in western australia, not at that time. i simply knew what to do. when the war was over i kept being a therapist to earn a living. when the lads were old enough, i thought, "alright lionel, you've always wanted to be an actor, one last go." i pretended it was our trip home to mother england, the great australian pilgrimage.
speaker3: to harley street?!
speaker2: cashed in our return tickets. i had three months rent.
speaker3: so you set yourself up on harley street as an actor? harley street, don't you know, is for doctors!
speaker2: the plaque says, `l. logue. speech specialist'. no mention of a medical degree. no mention of any degree. some of the diggers i'd helped had come to england. they made referrals. my practice flourished. my acting, however, did not.
speaker3: well enough to deceive me.
speaker2: lock me in the tower.
speaker3: i would if i could!
speaker2: what crime?
speaker3: you've saddled this nation in its moment of peril with a voiceless king. destroyed the happiness of my family...all for the sake of ensnaring a star client you knew you couldn't possibly assist!
speaker3: what're you doing? get up!
speaker2: i'm tired.
speaker3: you can't sit there!
speaker2: why not? it's a chair.
speaker3: it's the chair of edward the confessor! the throne upon which every king for six and a half centuries has been crowned.
speaker2: it's falling apart. people have carved their initials into it. needs a stone to keep from blowing away.
speaker3: that's the stone of scone! the stone of destiny that was once jacob's pillow.
speaker2: you believe such ballocks i don't care how many royal backsides have sat on it, it's a building block with handles attached. you're just like me, an actor with tawdry stage props you choose to believe are real.
speaker3: listen to me... !
speaker2: listen to you?! by what right?
speaker3: divine right, if you must! i'm your king!!!
speaker2: noooo you're not! told me so yourself. said you didn't want it. so why should i listen to a poor stuttering bloke who can't put one word after another? why waste my time listening to you?
speaker3: because i have a right to be heard!
speaker2: heard as what?!
speaker3: a man! i have a voice!!!
speaker2: well then...you're cured.
speaker3: stop trying to squirm off the hook.
speaker2: bertie, you'll make a good king. and you know it. bertie stares at him. a familiar voice is heard from the shadows.
speaker4: your majesty?
speaker1: you'll be relieved to learn i've found a replacement specialist. impeccable credentials. there's a long silence.
speaker3: that won't be necessary.
speaker1: the matter's already been settled. for your own well-being.
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker1: your majesty's function is to consult...and to be advised. you didn't consult, but you've just been advised.
speaker3: now i advise you, so listen carefully. ...in this personal matter i will make my own decision.
speaker1: may i remind you, you do not place the crown upon your own head.
speaker3: and may i remind you, it is my head upon which the crown is placed! tks/seidler/09/17/08 104.
speaker1: this will end badly. lang turns on his heel.
speaker2: in hushed tones the bbc commentator paints a picture for the world, as you stand at the altar divested of your robes. trumpets echo through the abbey. the incessant rain clears miraculously as a shaft of sun streams through the stained-glass window catching your golden tunic and bathing you in light like a mediaeval knight. and you are king!

speaker1: i was much moved 
speaker2: there were tears in my eyes too, your grace, particularly when i saw you and the dean of westminster cannoning into each other.
speaker1: that's been edited.
speaker2: more tears when our new monarch started towards his throne, only to be brought to an abrupt halt owing to one of the bishops treading on his robe.
speaker1: to the world, all went splendidly.
speaker2: amidst a vitrine of glittering jewels, bobbing tiaras, and heaving bosoms. the footage freezes momentarily.
speaker1: now, winston, i have something which will bring tears to your eyes.
speaker1: there's no doubt: david is planning a comeback. and will succeed if our king continues to falter. though bertie miraculously survived the coronation he continues to stumble very badly indeed. soon he must broadcast to the world. hitler will be listening. david will be listening. stalin and roosevelt will be listening.
speaker3: "in this grave hour... "
speaker3: "in this grave hour... " sorry.
speaker4: try again.
speaker3: "in this grave hour... "
speaker4: turn the halts into pauses, during which you say to yourself, "god save the king".
speaker3: i say that all the time, but apparently no one's listening.
speaker4: use the silence. long pauses add solemnity to great occasions.
speaker3: then i'm the solemnest king who ever lived. lionel, i can't do this! tks/seidler/09/17/08 106. logue tries to protest, bertie over-rides.
speaker3: if i am to be king...where is my power? may i form a government on my own, appoint or dismiss a prime minister, chose an ambassador, levy a tax or declare a war? none of these things. yet i am the seat of all authority. why? because the nation believes when i speak, i speak for them. yet i cannot speak! logue totally ignores the outburst.
speaker4: take it from the top. "in this grave hour..."
speaker3: "in this grave hour, p-p-perhaps..."
speaker4: go on...
speaker3: the letter`p' is always difficult.
speaker4: get a running start, put the words all together. `perhaps-the-most-fateful...'
speaker3: "in this grave hour...perhaps-the-most- fateful...in our history..."
speaker4: beaut.
speaker3: "... i send to every household of my peoples...both at home and overseas..."
speaker4: doo-dah, doo-dah.
speaker3: "...this message... "
speaker4: five miles long...
speaker3: "...spoken with the same depth of feeling for each one of you... as if i were able..."
speaker4: in your head, now: "bugger, bugger, bugger! damn, damn, all those blighters are going to have to listen to me!" can you dance?
speaker3: what?
speaker4: helps relax the body. waltz?
speaker3: i prefer pipes.
speaker4: thought you might. dance with me. one, two, one-two-three- four. one, two, one- two-three-four. "for the second time..." one-two-three-four "... in the lives of most of us..." one, two, one-two-three- four "... we are at war." three, four.
speaker3: "for the second time... in the lives of most of us... we are at war." one-two- three. "over and over again... we have tried to find a peaceful way... out of the differences... between ourselves... and those who are now our enemies." bugger, bugger, bugger!
speaker4: you'll be ready.
speaker3: the shilling you won... still have it?
speaker4: of course. tks/seidler/09/17/08 108.
speaker3: i'll return it.
speaker4: willie! where's your mum?
speaker5: she had to work.
speaker4: you've been waiting here, alone, all this time? willie nods again. then, haltingly:
speaker5: i heard the king.
speaker4: did you?
speaker5: he sang. and shouted rude words.
speaker4: he did.
speaker4: would you like to sing, dance, and shout rude words?
speaker5: i would!
speaker4: why am i not surprised?
speaker6: think he'll manage?
speaker7: i've heard he may not even show.
speaker3: `walk up to the thing boldly, stare it square in the eye, man to man.'
speaker7: if you'll be so kind, to let me show you...
speaker3: i already know. my father taught me.
speaker7: his father taught him. i taught his father.
speaker3: bugger...bloody bloody...
speaker8: bertie, do make sure that's not switched on!
speaker4: you're going to be splendid. and if you're not?
speaker3: they'll well have to listen to me anyway. right? tks/seidler/09/17/08 110.
speaker4: right.
speaker8: mr. prime minister, your grace, how kind of you to join us.
speaker1: wouldn't miss this for the world. congratulations. neville didn't last long, did he? talking to hitler.
speaker2: my tenure will be shorter, if the king fails tonight.
speaker3: no matter how this turns out, i wish to thank you. for asking such dreadful questions. what can i do in recompense?
speaker4: i've always wanted to be knighted.
speaker3: sorry. that would raise too many questions.
speaker4: understood.
speaker3: your shilling. told you i'd give it back.
speaker4: keep it for good luck.
speaker3: no, you won this, fair and square.
speaker3: made from the melted coin. designed it myself, hope you like it, lionel old friend. may i call you that?
speaker4: my greatest honour, bertie. one final question.
speaker3: oh dear.
speaker4: do you believe you're king?
speaker3: almost.
speaker7: good evening, this is the bbc national and world programme, broadcasting from buckingham palace. his majesty, the king.

speaker1: ...this message spoken with the same depth of feeling for each one of you as if i were able to cross your threshold and speak to you myself. for the second time in the lives of most of us we are at war. for we are called, with our allies, to meet the challenge of a principle which, if it were to prevail, would be fatal to any civilized order in the world. it is the principle which permits a state, in the selfish pursuit of power, to disregard its treaties and its solemn pledges; which sanctions the use of force, or threat of force, against the sovereignty and independence of other states. such a principle, stripped of all disguise, is surely the mere primitive doctrine that might is right, and if this principle were established throughout the world, the freedom of our own country and of the whole british commonwealth of nations would be in danger. 
speaker1: tks/seidler/09/17/08 113.
speaker1: but far more than this - the peoples of the world would be kept in the of fear, and all hopes of settled peace and of the security of justice and liberty among nations would be ended. this is the ultimate issue which confronts us.
speaker1: for the sake of all that we ourselves hold dear, and of the world's order and peace, it is unthinkable that we should refuse to meet the challenge. it is to this high purpose that i now call my people at home and my peoples across the seas, who will make our cause their own. i ask them to stand calm, firm, and united in this time of trial. the task will be hard. there may be dark days ahead, and war can no longer be confined to the battlefield. but we can only do the right as we see the right, and reverently commit our cause to

speaker1: we may all find a message of encouragement in the lines which, in my closing words, i would like to say to you: `i said to the man who stood at the gate of the year, "give me a light that i may tread safely into the unknown." and he replied, "go out into the darkness, and put your hand into the hand of that shall be to you better than light, and safer than a known way.'" may the almighty hand guide and uphold us all. 
speaker2: this concludes the bbc broadcast of the king's speech.
speaker2: he wasn't perfect. not perfect... but by he moved me.
speaker3: couldn't have said it better myself.
speaker4: i'm speechless.
speaker5: thank
speaker5: well done, bertie. well done... ...lionel. well done.
speaker6: i always called you bertie. today, i call you king.

