speaker1: i love you, mr. powers. 
speaker2: and i love you, mrs. powers.
speaker1: let's go out on the terrace. it's a beautiful night, we can look at the stars.

speaker1: look how beautiful the night sky is. 
speaker2: isn't that the big dipper?
speaker1: yeah, and that looks just like uranus.
speaker2: austin!
speaker1: well, you know.
speaker2: hey, i've never seen that big star before.
speaker1: yeah, what is that?

speaker1: oh well, i guess it was nothing. 
speaker1: care for some champagne? here's to monotony-- i mean, monogamy!
speaker1: hello? vanessa? what are you doing, luv?
speaker2: just putting on my--

speaker1: vanessa, you're a fembot! 
speaker1: machine gun jubblies, how did i miss those?

speaker1: dad, i know you're against race mixing and all that, but i met someone... 
speaker2: don't say it!
speaker1: i met someone... and he's black.
speaker2: he?
speaker3: please welcome tim.

speaker1: now scott, tell us about your father. share with us. 
speaker2: well he's the head of an evil organization that has aspirations for world domination.
speaker1: and where is your father right now?
speaker2: he's in outer space, like frozen in a giant egg and stuffed inside a big boy rocket with his cat, mr. bigglesworth.
speaker1: really? well, we have a surprise for you, scott. let's bring out
speaker3: father, dr evil. dr evil enters.
speaker4: hello scott, i'm back.
speaker2: i can't believe you'd do this to me on national television!
speaker4: they offered me a free makeover.
speaker1: dr. evil, we've seen a lot of the fathers here today open up to their sons, sons to the fathers. is there anything you'd like to share?
speaker4: share?
speaker1: yes, don't you have any secrets?
speaker4: ok. i have a vestigial tail.
speaker4: it's more of a nub, really. the spine just goes on a little longer than it should. also, i've dabbled. i mean, perform once and you're a poet, twice and you're a homosexual. i remember once i was being fisted by sebastian cabot- but here's where the story gets interesting. he was lactose-intolerant. he could eat red meat all night long, but one sip of milk and it was gastric hell. and i remember we were caught in fragrance delicto by henry kissinger, and you can imagine my humiliation at having hank hear me say, "mr. french, no teeth." one of my greatest disappointments is that i never became a song and dance man. i could have been a quadruple threat, kind of like a despotic ken barry. dancer, singer, actor, and i would possess nuclear weapons, the latter being the most threatening of the four. i once sat on a bus and tried to will myself a menstrual cycle. all i ended up with was a sense of failure and a mild neuralgia in my incisor teeth and perhaps a grudging respect for the weaker sex. i love toe cleavage. for the most part i distrust dogs. i slept in a horse once. it was quite roomy. on second thought, it was the ritz. i named my left 'piss' and my right 'vinegar'. i wrote "it's raining men", or so the christmas babies told me. oh yes, i also made a marzipan voodoo effigy of the fonze while i was in coma after smoking some peruvian prayer hash, but who at the end of the day can honestly say they haven't done that?
speaker5: what are you, some kind of freak?
speaker2: shut up, jagoff!
speaker5: i'll kick your punk!
speaker4: no one talks to my boy that way!
speaker4: i'm ok, i'm ok.
speaker4: come scott, let's go to daddy's new evil lair.

speaker1: dr. evil, as the legitimate frontman of your organization, i seized upon the opportunity to invest in a small seattle-based coffee company several years ago. today, starbucks is a far- flung empire with 2000 outlets worldwide. 
speaker2: oh good, number two, i do enjoy a good cuppa joe.
speaker1: if i may continue, i believe if we shift our resources away from world and focus on providing premium quality coffee drinks, we can increase our gross profits fivefold.
speaker2: right. perhaps you've confused me with someone who gives a might i remind you that i run the show here? i demand a little respect.
speaker1: dr. evil, i think you--
speaker2: silence! i will not tolerate your insolence! remember what happened last time.

speaker1: may i add, i appreciate you reinstating me after our little... misunderstanding. 
speaker2: frau farbissina. wie gehts is einen?
speaker3: zehr gut, herr doctor.
speaker2: how are things?
speaker3: i have come to embrace the love that dare not speak it's name. to my right is my lover.
speaker3: her name is unibrau. i met her on the lpga tour.
speaker2: right on. welcome, unibrau.
speaker3: doctor, you have a 'milk mustache.'
speaker2: oh, i know. i know.
speaker1: dr. evil, i'd like to introduce the greek assassin, oedipus.
speaker2: welcome to my private army, oedipus. excited?
speaker4: i could give a
speaker2: kiss your mother with that mouth?
speaker4: yes.
speaker2: of course you do.
speaker1: dr. evil, as you know, the rate at which you liquidate henchmen far exceeds our ability to replace them.
speaker2: i have so few pleasures left to me, number two. the key to life is to rotate your vices. one day it's executions, another day it's creamy french cheese. it's like frickin' heroin.
speaker1: well, dr. evil, perhaps i have the answer. while you were frozen, we began a program to clone you.
speaker2: cool.
speaker1: we had a few glitches, but i think you'll be pleased with the results.
speaker3: send in the clone!
speaker1: he is identical to you in every way, except he is one-eighth your size.
speaker2: breathtaking. i shall call him mini- me. mini-me, you will sit to my right.
speaker2: come mr. bigglesworth!
speaker2: mini-me, something to eat? no?
speaker5: tired. gentleman, i have a plan. as you know, the most powerful man in the world is the president of the united states. but he is just that- a man, subject to temptations of the flesh like any other man. here's what we do: we make it seem that the president has had "extra-marital oral relations" with- and this is the kicker-

speaker1: with a white house intern! 
speaker2: uh-hem.
speaker1: what, that already happened?
speaker1: this is ri-goddamn-diculous. oh well, how about a frickin' time machine? does the president have a time machine? have i been scooped on that?
speaker2: no, not that i'm aware of.
speaker1: alright, time machine it is. as you know, every diabolical scheme i've hatched has been thwarted by austin powers. and why is that, ladies and gentlemen?
speaker3: because you never kill him when you get the chance and you're a dope?
speaker1: no, because austin powers has "mojo".
speaker2: mojo?
speaker4: yes, mojo. the mojo is the life force, the essence, the libido, the "right stuff".
speaker1: it's what the french call a certain 'i don't know what.'
speaker3: if you've got a time machine, why don't you just go back and kill austin powers when he's a baby or something?
speaker1: no, no, no.
speaker2: dr. evil, wouldn't it be easier to use your knowledge of the future to play the stock market? we could literally make trillions.
speaker1: why make trillions when we could make... billions?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: why think small is all i'm saying.
speaker3: a trillion is more than a billion, numb-nuts.
speaker1: zip it. unveil the time portal!
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, i give you the time portal. as you know, austin powers was frozen in 1967. therefore, i time travel to 1969, two years after he was frozen. security will be lax and i'll strike when he is totally helpless.
speaker3: can i come?
speaker1: no, scott, daddy has a score to settle. austin powers is the snake to my mongoose, or the mongoose to my snake. either way it's bad, i don't know animals. but i do know this: this time it's personal. frau, number 2, i'll see you both in 1969. come, mini-me.

speaker1: ah, here we are mini-me, 1969. number two, you look very youthful and healthy. and frau you look...right. 
speaker1: ok, people, we now officially have a chair problem. if another one of these chairs hits me in the nuts, i'm gonna go postal. mini-me, i want you to meet number two.
speaker2: hello there.
speaker1: mini-me?
speaker1: shy. low blood sugar. gentlemen, phase two is beginning. i have an operative inside the ministry of defense. by this time tomorrow, austin powers' mojo will be mine.
speaker1: ha-ha-ha! ha-ha-ha!

speaker1: we've had reports that there's a spy in the ministry of defense. the contents of this room are vital to the country. be on special alert. 
speaker2: those will have to kill me before i let anything happen to this wee naked hairy popsicle, sir!
speaker1: very good. and try and lose some weight for sake!
speaker2: yessir!

speaker1: gor blimey, i'm on empty! that's funny, i just filled the shaguar up this morning. austin hits a button on the dashboard. 
speaker2: hello, i'm basil exposition, head of british intelligence.
speaker1: you always are, basil. listen, the weirdest thing just happened, i've run out of petrol.
speaker2: we'll send a man around immediately. how was your honeymoon?
speaker1: vanessa tried to kill me, basil. she was a fembot!
speaker2: ah women, who can understand them? moving on, let's discuss your new case.
speaker1: new case? very shagadelic, basil!
speaker2: you'll be doing a photo shoot. we know that one of the models is an ex- kgb agent selling top secret material to the highest bidder.
speaker1: that sounds easy enough, you know what they say: all work and no makes austin a dull boy, man!

speaker1: tres chic, baby. 
speaker2: austin, the models are ready.
speaker1: ta, reg. bless your cotton socks. hey, reg, do you have any hobbies?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: hobbies, man! i for one enjoy making models!
speaker3: it's him! oh my it's austin powers!
speaker1: one at a time, girls. one. at. a. time!
speaker4: hi, i'm cindy. i don't believe i've had the pleasure.
speaker1: of course you haven't had "the pleasure", we just met, baby, yeah!
speaker5: how do you do, austin? i'm rebecca. your equipment is quite impressive.
speaker1: thank you. your are amazing.
speaker1: and what's your name, baby?
speaker6: ivana humpalot.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker7: ivana. ivana humpalot.
speaker1: and i vanna toilet made of solid gold but it's just not in the cards, now is it?
speaker1: alright, baby! love it. turn and pout for me baby! smashing!
speaker1: great, darling. give me some shoulder. yes, yes, yes. no! no!
speaker1: show me love. smashing! you're an animal. you're a tiger. be a tiger, baby! you're great! you're grrrrrr- eat! you're tony, be corn flakes, baby, be frosted. now be a lemur, baby! you're a ring-tailed lemur.
speaker5: a lemur?
speaker1: a small mammal native to the african savannah. c'mon baby, you know. like this! ok, predator coming! now, burrow, burrow! you're a lemur. it's all you've got. i take it back. be a tiger again. smashing!
speaker1: and... done! i'm spent!
speaker2: hel-lo, you forgot about ivana.
speaker1: i didn't forget, baby. miss humpalot and i are going to have a 'private session'.
speaker7: when did you get "the clapper"?
speaker1: november, 1964, dutch east indies, shore leave.
speaker7: are you cold, mr. powers?
speaker1: i once had a bad experience with frostbite. i had to dip my tadger into a brandy snifter.
speaker7: do you know how we keep warm in russia?
speaker1: i can guess, baby.
speaker7: we play chess.
speaker1: i guessed wrong.
speaker7: it takes a keen intelligence to play chess. of course, you know what they say about men with big brains, don't you?
speaker1: they wear large hats?
speaker7: no, they make better lovers.
speaker1: wrong again.
speaker7: i assume you know how to play.
speaker1: of course. the... horsey... moves in an l shape.
speaker1: let's stop playing games with each other... especially difficult ones. may i ask you a question, miss humpalot?
speaker7: of course.
speaker1: do i make you horny? do i?
speaker7: i'll tell you anything you want to know, just make love to me.
speaker7: you are hairy, like an animal!
speaker1: grrrr, baby.
speaker1: grrrr. ruf! ruf! wait a tick, i don't want him watching me while i'm on the job!
speaker7: make love to me, monkey man.
speaker1: groovy, baby!
speaker7: what's the matter?

speaker1: austin, i came as soon as i heard. 
speaker2: there must be some kind of mistake, basil. maybe i was drunk and i didn't know it.
speaker1: what's wrong with your neck, austin?
speaker2: i took a and it got caught in my throat. i've had a stiff neck for hours. basil, is it true? have i lost my mojo?
speaker1: we're going to run a few tests, austin. don't worry, old friend, we'll get to the bottom of this.

speaker1: excuse me, mr. powers, i need to give you a sponge bath before we begin the test. 
speaker2: alright, miss, just let me finish this article on the suez crisis.
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker3: alright, everyone, we're done.
speaker2: but the test hasn't even started!
speaker3: agent haggerty was the test, austin. not only were you actually reading an article in that playboy, but a candy-stripe nurse offering to give you a sponge bath didn't so much as turn your head.
speaker2: wait, i can explain, man! i was going to her but the article was so fascinating--
speaker3: i'm sorry, austin, i'm afraid it's true: you've lost your mojo.
speaker2: without my mojo, i'm useless to the ministry and to her majesty. i think it's time to retire.
speaker3: i'm afraid that's not possible, austin. you see, dr. evil has returned.
speaker2: again?
speaker3: again.

speaker1: we have evidence that dr. evil has developed a time machine. 
speaker1: our researcher noticed that these photos from the archives have changed. that means dr. evil is traveling back in time and creating alliances with each decade's most despised villains.
speaker2: i can't read in the car. i get a bit vomy.
speaker2: got it. i almost gipped.
speaker1: our data indicates that dr. evil is in the year 1969. luckily, we also have a time travel device. after years of research we've developed a machine that will transport you back to the sixties.
speaker2: but basil, isn't that the new volkswagen beetle?
speaker1: that's what they'd like you to believe.
speaker2: so, basil, if i travel back to 1969 and i was frozen in 1967, i could go look at my frozen self. but, if i'm still frozen in 1967, how could i have been unthawed in the 90's and traveled back to the sixties? oh, no, i've gone cross-eyed.
speaker1: i suggest you don't worry about those things and just enjoy yourself.
speaker2: this is smashing basil. i'll go back to the sixties, recharge my mojo, defeat dr. evil and be back in time for tea.
speaker1: good luck, austin.
speaker2: luck has nothing to do with it, basil.
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: care for a ride? 
speaker2: that's my beetle, baby.
speaker1: it was your beetle. get in.
speaker1: austin powers, i presume?
speaker2: powers by name, powers by reputation.
speaker1: felicity shagwell, cia. shagwell by name, shag-very-well by reputation.
speaker2: crazy, baby!

speaker1: well, austin, i think this time you may have met your match. 
speaker2: oh, i've beaten dr. evil before, and i'll beat him again.
speaker1: i was talking about me.

speaker1: welcome to my pad, baby. 
speaker1: care for something to drink?
speaker1: or perhaps something to read?
speaker1: how about a hot cup of coffee?
speaker2: yes, i rather fancy a grind.
speaker1: oh, behave!
speaker1: would you like a... mas-sage? a sensssual mas-sage?
speaker1: how does that feel, baby?
speaker2: mmm, lower.
speaker3: they laugh. austin continues to massage her.
speaker2: wait, something's itching me.
speaker2: that's better.
speaker1: crikey!!!
speaker1: sorry.
speaker1: hello, anyone home? c'mon lads, do it for england.
speaker2: oh, that was so relaxing. felicity stretches very sexily.
speaker1: would you 'like to see my etchings?
speaker1: i'll get you some pjs.
speaker2: no, i'm ready for bed.
speaker1: oh, you'll want to clean your teeth then.
speaker2: no, i want to have with you, austin.
speaker1: hello vicar!
speaker2: i've studied everything about you- your methods, your accomplishments, your preferences. you're the reason i became a spy. now, i've waited two years to meet you, so i say we get busy making up for lost time.
speaker1: felicity, i used to think that way, too, but i guess... i guess i've changed. not to make a short story long, or to ramble on and on, or to keep talking in a repetitive manner ad infinitum until it becomes impossible to remember what i was talking about in the first place, but- where was i?

speaker1: oh yes. felicity, i can't you. i've lost my mojo. 
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: i thought coming back to the sixties would bring it back, but it hasn't.
speaker2: austin, don't worry. i know just the man to help you. he's my guru. ringo recommended him and he's the best.
speaker1: i'll warm up the jumbo jet, baby!

speaker1: there he is. that's my guru. 
speaker1: guru, i'd like you to meet austin powers.
speaker2: how are you baby?
speaker3: my chakras are aligned and i am in a perfect state of equipoise.
speaker2: good on ya. i don't know what that means but it sounds fab.
speaker1: guru, we need some advice.
speaker3: hold your horses and any other beasts- of burden. i must lead my disciples in meditation and then i will help you.
speaker4: ahhhhhh!
speaker3: my name is the guru pitka. i am a spiritual teacher and i have combined many disparate disciplines into a unified movement of human potentiality and equipoise that i learned from my guru, the late guru shastri, a chaste man who died mysteriously of a disease that strangely had all the hallmarks of syphilis. he would say to me, sparky, love is all, life is breath.
speaker4: ahhhhhh!
speaker3: now, perhaps you are wondering where i got the nickname sparky. well, when we were young we used to play a game called "stinkmop". we would urinate into a bucket, dip a mop into it, and play tag. i did not care for "stinkmop" and a very wise old man said to me 'oh lighten up, sparky', and i don't know, the name kind of stuck.
speaker4: ahhhhhhhh...
speaker3: now, the reason i am a spiritualist instead of a therapist is that 'therapist' often becomes 'the rapist' and that will not help us attain potentiality. now what is potentiality? it is the ability to achieve those goals that we wish to achieve for ourselves. people often say to me that they feel "nowhere", and i am going to change that to "now here."
speaker4: ahhhhhhh...
speaker3: and you have many assumptions about your goals, but when you "assume" you make an "ass" out of "u" and "me".
speaker4: ahhhhhhh....
speaker3: the being, or that which we call 'ourselves', is not the tinker. it is not the taughts. it is the gap between the tinker and the taughts! we are not our mind, we are not our body, we are the gap!
speaker4: ahhhhh...
speaker3: the heart of the matter is that you are the heart of the matter. there is no "i" in "team". beer before liquor, never sicker. don't take a wooden nickel. if your pipe is short and your pump is weak, you better stand close or you'll on your feet. he who goes to bed with itchy wakes up with smelly finger.
speaker4: ahhhhh...
speaker3: finally, the path to spiritual awakening requires the death of ego. leggo of my ego! let us end with the mantra: om ay vant yu uh... mo ay vant yu uh... mo ay vant yu hu.
speaker4: om ay vant yu uh... mo ay vant yu uh... mo ay vant yu hu.
speaker3: go with and pay at the door please.
speaker3: how can i help you?
speaker2: guru, i'm having trouble performing.
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: you know- my bits and pieces are a bit sleepy.
speaker3: i'm not understanding.
speaker2: i've forgotten the steps to the mummy- daddy dance.
speaker3: still not clear.
speaker2: my flag's at half mast and no one will salute it.
speaker3: sorry?
speaker2: my willie don't work.
speaker3: why are you beating around the bush?
speaker2: that's my problem.
speaker3: ohhhhh, i get it. no, i don't get it.
speaker1: he's impotent!
speaker2: alright, easy. felicity and i were all set for some hump olympics and i couldn't bat for six.
speaker3: oh, yes, i see.
speaker2: you have no idea what i'm saying, do you?
speaker3: not a word.
speaker2: guru, i've lost my mojo.
speaker3: oh, mojo! you should have said so. well, you've lost your mojo because your chakras are misaligned. you have lost love.
speaker2: lost love? oh, you mean vanessa?
speaker1: who's vanessa?
speaker2: she was an evil robot minion of dr. evil. i couldn't have loved her.
speaker3: denial ain't just a river in egypt, buddy. you will only get your mojo back when you surround yourself with love.
speaker2: oh, i get what you're saying now! he's talking about free love, baby! tune in, turn on, and drop out!
speaker3: i am talking about true love. you must stay and study until you are worthy.
speaker2: no way, man. the only way to surround yourself with love is to throw a swinging shin-dig! yeah, baby, yeah!

speaker1: well done, fat bastard. may i have the mojo? 
speaker2: first things first, where's your shitter? i've gotta bleepin, turtle head pokin' out.
speaker1: right. charming. fat bastard- you don't mind me calling you fat do you?
speaker2: i've got a lot of demons kickin' around in my noggin, but weight issues ain't one of them.
speaker1: alright, fatty-
speaker2: the name is fat bastard! i'm the incorrect weight for my height and i was born out of wedlock, hence the moniker fat bastard. hey, i'm not kiddin'. i've got a on deck that could choke a donkey.
speaker1: fat bastard, the mojo?
speaker2: where's my money?
speaker1: a gentlemen never discusses money.
speaker2: fine, you can take your in' money and shove it up your , you stupid prick! while you're at it you can my greasy, two-toned !
speaker1: vulgarity is no substitute for wit.
speaker2: you!
speaker1: right. bring in the money.
speaker2: alright, here it is.
speaker3: dr. evil is mesmerized.
speaker1: mini-me, fetch.
speaker4: number two enters.
speaker5: dr. evil, i have some bad news. austin powers is back in the sixties. one of our best assassins spotted him but he got away.
speaker1: this is ri-goddamn-diculous, we have his mojo.
speaker5: there is another. felicity shagwell,
speaker6: suddenly, scott evil enters through time portal.
speaker1: scott, what are you doing here?
speaker7: i don't know, i was sitting around watching the tube and the courtship of eddie's father came on nick at nite, you know, and i was just listening to that theme song-- anyway it made me think that maybe we could try and work things out. you know, you are my dad and i need you.
speaker1: you had your chance, scott. i already have someone created in my image. he's evil, he wants to take over the world, and he fits easily into most overhead storage bins. has anyone seen mini-me? mini-me! mini-mouse? mini-driver? hello! mini pearl? can we put a frickin' bell on him or something?
speaker1: gentlemen, phase three. we place a giant laser on the moon. let me demonstrate. where's my laser?
speaker1: mini-me, don't chew my laser. not feeling well. he has an ear infection, but tit's ok. no? nothing? anyway, the laser is powerful enough to destroy every city on the planet at will. we'll turn the moon into what i like to call a "death star".
speaker1: what?
speaker7: nothing darth.
speaker1: what did you call me?
speaker7: nothing. rip-off!
speaker1: bless you? anyways, since my "death star" laser was invented by the noted cambridge physicist, dr. parsons. i thought we'd name it in his honor-- the alan parsons project.
speaker1: what now?
speaker7: the alan parsons project was a progressive rock band from 1982. why don't you just name it operation chung, ass?
speaker1: when you get your own evil empire, you can call it whatever you want. gentlemen, allow me to demonstrate the awesome lethality of the alan parsons project. fire the laser!

speaker1: my dr. evil, you destroyed the wihite house with no warning! 
speaker2: actually, that was just footage from the 1996 blockbuster motion picture independence day, but it would be a lot like that. what do you think, scott?
speaker3: yeah, codename: thompson twins was really impressive.
speaker2: shhhh!
speaker3: i'm nineteen, i don't-
speaker2: shh! shh-shh. shh-shhhhhh-shh. shh- shh! it's morse code. let me decipher... it says 'shhhhh!'
speaker3: you are so lame-
speaker2: ssssss...huuuuuh...shhhhh!
speaker1: dr. evil, what are we going to do about powers?
speaker2: fat bastard, in addition to being extremely rotund, you're a vicious killer.
speaker4: it'll be my pleasure.
speaker2: it's an easy job. without his mojo, powers will be...powerless?

speaker1: this shag-in is gonna blow your mind, baby, yeah! 
speaker2: hey!
speaker1: you'll thank me later, baby.
speaker1: hey! ricardo monteblan, how are you?
speaker3: hello, austin! balls, said the queen and the king laughed because he had too.
speaker1: crazy, man!
speaker4: let's split up and scope the scene.
speaker1: don't do anything i wouldn't do- at least not without me.
speaker1: oh, behave!

speaker1: you're very exotic, baby. do you have a little english in you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: would you like to?
speaker3: this is ridiculous!
speaker4: have you ever been picked up by the fuzz?
speaker5: no, but i bet it really hurts.

speaker1: the austin powers dictionary defines an eskimo as a frosty prosty. 
speaker2: i don't get it.

speaker1: those are skin tight. how do you get into those pants, baby? 
speaker2: well you can start by buying me a drink.
speaker3: you were great last night. by the way, i'm thor.
speaker2: you're thor? i'm tho thor i can hardly thit.

speaker1: did you hear about the contortionist who was engaged to be married? 
speaker2: yeah, i heard she broke it off.

speaker1: look at that. 
speaker2: that's not a pretty sight. who is he?
speaker1: until recently he worked security for the mod, but we think he might be a double agent, possibly for dr. evil.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: we've noticed that his lifestyle has changed dramatically. he's made a lot of cash purchases, he's hanging out with foxes half his age, and he's becomes quite a fixture on the london party circuit.
speaker2: who's the girl?
speaker1: i don't know, but it looks like he's splitting.
speaker1: i'll follow him. you see what you can get out of the girl. we'll rendezvous later.
speaker2: hello, hello.
speaker3: hello, mr. powers. fab party.
speaker2: who are you today, baby?
speaker3: robin. robin swallows.
speaker2: swallows? that's an interesting name. are you english?
speaker4: german, actually. my maiden name is spitz.
speaker2: well which is it, baby, spitz or swallows? either way, it's a pleasure.
speaker4: the pleasure is mine.
speaker2: charmed, i'm sure. how do you do? yes, quite. i always enjoy meeting new people. how's your mum? good. i love shaking hands.
speaker2: so, who was your friend?
speaker4: his name is fat bastard.
speaker2: it suits him.
speaker4: he's my lover.
speaker2: ok. would you happen to know if he's in business with a man named mr. evil?
speaker4: i don't know anyone named dr. evil.
speaker2: really? i said mister evil. austin does a smug take.
speaker2: something to drink? would you like a mister pepper?
speaker4: yes, i'd love a doctor pepper.
speaker2: really? i said mister pepper.
speaker4: you're a groovy boy, i'd like to strap you on sometime.
speaker2: oh, behave!

speaker1: ...and i'll have a fried-prawn sandwich, with extra mayonnaise, two whole chickens, a kidney pie, a toad in the hole, bubble and squeak, bangers and mash, 3 orders of fish and chips, and... a fresca. no ice. 
speaker2: i love a man with a large appetite.
speaker1: and i love a woman with big , so let's shut up and get to ing.

speaker1: can i ask you a question? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: well, what's the question?
speaker1: oh, yes. would you like to shag? would you?
speaker2: i'd love to, mr. powers, just come right... over... here.
speaker1: you're a bit of alright.

speaker1: oedipus, oedipus... 
speaker2: sorry baby, too late. he's as dead as vaudeville.
speaker1: you can't win, powers. dr. evil has your mojo and it's only a matter of time before he kills you and takes over the world. tell fat i'll miss him...

speaker1: i always get in' hungry after i get my end away! 
speaker2: i never would have thought that a man of such tremendous girth could be such a, um, creative and sensuous lover!
speaker1: you want some chicken? i have more!
speaker1: frisky are we? alright lets have another go!

speaker1: dr. evil, what do you want? 
speaker2: not what i want mr. president, but i will receive. in 12 hours i will destroy washington, dc with a giant laser.
speaker2: ok, mini-me, why don't you and the laser get a frickin' room. honestly. i will destroy another major city every hour- that is, unless you pay me-

speaker1: one hundred billion dollars! 
speaker2: dr. evil that's more than the entire federal budget for 1969.
speaker1: don't play games with me. the capitol will disappear if i don't receive

speaker1: one hundred billion dollars! 
speaker2: that much money simply doesn't exist. i don't think l00 billion is even a number. it's like saying i want a kajillion bajillion dollars.
speaker1: come on, mr. president...

speaker1: "show me the money!" dr. evil looks around smugly. no one laughs. 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: "show me the money!" he looks around again, expectantly. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i don't understand.
speaker1: you know, kwan? show me the money? no? nothing?
speaker3: it's 1969. that movie won't come out for another 30 years, ass. they don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: right. ok, see if you understand this: give me the money or i'm going to blow you to frickin' bits, ok?
speaker2: but-
speaker1: talk to the hand!
speaker1: i did love that, though. cuba gooding jr. was outstanding. oscar speech, very touching.
speaker4: okay, everybody clear the room!

speaker1: dr. evil, one last thing. i-- oh. 
speaker2: i was just... right. would it kill you to frickin' knock?
speaker3: austin and felicity walk along the street.
speaker4: austin, tell me about the nineties.
speaker5: you know i can't tell you details about the future, baby, it could alter history.
speaker4: not details, just what it's like. you know, what's the scene? where's it at?
speaker5: there've been a lot of advances in the nineties, baby. the economy is stable, people take better care of their health concern for the environment is on the rise and, um, let's see, there's an entire television channel dedicated to golf.
speaker4: sounds awful.
speaker5: it's not so bad once you get used to it. the nineties are about responsibility. you know, having respect for yourself and other people. i even got married.
speaker4: you? married? what about the sexual revolution?
speaker5: well, it turns out there were some casualties, baby. don't you think you'll ever get married?
speaker4: no, not until i get a little more 'experience' under my belt.
speaker5: oh, behave!
speaker5: oh my
speaker4: what is it! is it fat bastard?
speaker5: no, written here on my hand, see?
speaker5: says 'oh my god!' they laugh.
speaker4: austin, look.

speaker1: felicity, i haven't had this much fun since i worked undercover in amsterdam-- '66 i think it was. 
speaker2: 1965, actually. you posed as a dutch cheese expert to stop dr. evil from poisoning the world's water supply.
speaker2: i've studied your file, austin. i want to be a trailblazer, just like you. the seventies are right around the corner. it's going to be a glorious time for fashion and music and technology-- it won't be long before every flying car has its own 8-track.
speaker2: the cia has always been a boy's club until now. well move over, this chick's taking over.
speaker1: very impressive.
speaker2: austin, your voice!
speaker1: yes, i think i'm coming down with something.
speaker1: i'll get some ice cream. would you like some?
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: could i have two scoops of vanilla, please?
speaker3: right away, governor. would you like chocolate syrup?
speaker1: yes, please.
speaker3: will you have any whipped cream?
speaker1: i will, thank you.
speaker4: candy sprinkles?
speaker1: yes please.
speaker3: crushed nuts?
speaker1: no, laryngitis.
speaker3: here's your change, sir. oh, and austin--
speaker1: basil!
speaker5: hello, austin. what's wrong with your voice?
speaker1: i just had ice cream. listen to me, i have dairy throat. "mary had a little lamb and it was always gruntin'. she tied it to a five bar gate and kicked it's little-
speaker5: austin! things are heating up, so i thought it best to contact you in disguise. felicity, your plan worked. you and austin track fat back to dr. evil.
speaker1: but how can we track fat bastard?
speaker2: i planted a homing device on him last night.
speaker5: yes, and we're starting to pick up the signal now.
speaker1: how did you get close enough to plant a homing device?
speaker2: i shagged him, i shagged him rotten.
speaker1: you... him? just like that?
speaker2: yes, austin, we needed that information.
speaker5: well, thanks to your effort, felicity, we now know that-
speaker1: did you use an elaborate set of pulleys? a block and tackle?
speaker5: anyway, you two follow the signal back to dr. evil's headquarters and then-
speaker1: i just can't get my head around it, baby. you're so small and he's so ... not small. the sheer mechanics of it are mindboggling!
speaker5: never mind, austin, you two have work to do. you must find dr. evil.

speaker1: i got it! a chinese basket with a counter-weighted ballast. that's how you did it, right? 
speaker2: austin, it almost sounds like you're jealous.
speaker1: who, me? that's not possible, baby! is it?
speaker1: get down!
speaker2: we're obviously on the right track. it looks like fat is-on an island in the middle of the ocean.

speaker1: according to the readings, dr. evil's headquarters is over the next ridge. 
speaker2: can i have a look?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: question is, how do we get in?
speaker1: mmmmmmm...mmmmm...
speaker2: austin, did you hear me?
speaker1: i seem to be stuck in your dirty pillows.
speaker2: where are the topographical maps that basil drew up?
speaker1: i think they're in the tent.
speaker1: have you got it out yet?
speaker2: good lord, austin, what sort of things do you put in there?
speaker1: oh, anything that catches my fancy.
speaker2: how do you manage to fit it all in?
speaker1: oh, it stretches to fit.
speaker1: are you almost done? i can't hold it much longer.

speaker1: dr. evil, that was fantastic, but i do have some bad news. powers' is on the island. 
speaker2: how tedious.
speaker1: don't worry, dr. evil, we can get to him by using the girl.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: i have the perfect weapon. frau?
speaker3: bring in the he-bots!
speaker1: dr. evil, may i present the he-bots. what kind of woman could resist these perfect specimens of masculinity? their clothes are stylish, their posture is ramrod straight, and their buttocks are tight, like tigers. and, each he-bot is armed with a secret weapon.

speaker1: and deadly acid. 
speaker2: right. i object to the last one on aesthetic grounds, but i don't care how you get powers, just bring him to me. ready mini-me? a one and a two and...

speaker1: do you want everything to go back in? 
speaker2: yes. listen, felicity, about fat bastard-
speaker1: it's my job, austin. you of all people should understand that. marakesh, 1962. rome, 1964. tokyo, 1966. i know your record backwards and forwards. you've had more on the job than a swedish stewardess.
speaker2: you're right, felicity, i can't deny it. but the world changed, and i changed too.
speaker2: ow! my back hurts.
speaker1: are you ok?
speaker2: i'm fine, just keeping packing.

speaker1: christ almighty, it smells terrible in here. 
speaker2: it's the volcanic sulphurous emissions. we've put up some air fresheners.
speaker1: great, now it smells like someone took a in a pine tree.
speaker3: dr. evil, the laser has been loaded into the rocket. you're ready for launch.
speaker2: i'm just waiting to taunt my nemesis. i have so few pleasures, you know.
speaker2: ah, mr. powers, ms. shagwell, welcome to my hollowed-out volcano.
speaker4: we meet again, dr. evil.
speaker2: yes, the only reason i'm keeping you alive is so you can feel the agony of watching my plan unfold.
speaker4: dr. evil your plan will never--
speaker2: oh, is that yours?
speaker4: my mojo!
speaker2: you know what they say: finders keepers, loser weepers.
speaker5: dr. evil, do you like real estate?
speaker2: of course. why?
speaker5: now you've got a couple of achers.
speaker2: oww! my stomach hurts!
speaker4: i don't care if he is evil, you don't give a man a shot in the pills. it's just not cricket, baby.
speaker2: take them away.
speaker6: she just hoofed you in the sack and you're going to leave them alone in a jail cell with one inept guard? they'll escape, dipshit. you do this every time!
speaker2: you're going the right way for a smacked bottom, young man.
speaker6: you don't own me!
speaker2: i do actually. it's complicated. usually it's illegal but this buddy of mine... but i digress. fat bastard, i'm leaving you in charge. i'm going up the moon to hold the world ransom with my giant laser, i shouldn't be long.
speaker1: what about powers?
speaker2: he's tucked away safely in his cell. he's harmless without that mojo. guard it with your life. number two, begin the countdown.
speaker3: five, four, three...

speaker1: colonel, you better have a look at this radar. 
speaker2: what is it, son?
speaker1: i don't know, sir, but it looks like a giant--

speaker1:  
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: take a look out of starboard.
speaker2: oh my it looks like a huge--

speaker1: pecker! 
speaker2: where?
speaker1: over there. a rare red-billed woodpecker! what sort of bird is that? oh goodness, it's not a bird, it's-

speaker1: johnson! 
speaker2: yes, sir?
speaker1: get on the horn to british intelligence and let them know about this.

speaker1: how are we going to get out of here? 
speaker2: why don't you just fat again?
speaker1: austin, that is it! i don't know what happened to you in the nineties, but i'm still here, in the sixties, and i still swing! don't try to lay your hang-ups on me just because you lost your mojo! that one hurts.
speaker2: ouch, baby, very ouch. i'm wounded.
speaker1: i'm sorry, austin, that was a cheap shot.
speaker2: no, baby, you're right. i was wrong to judge you. i guess i am... jealous.
speaker1: but the austin powers i knew was wild and crazy and free. he could never be jealous.
speaker2: that austin is gone. i've changed. i knew someone, not long ago, a very special woman. she taught me that life isn't about jumping into the sack with whoever comes along, it's about caring and responsibility. and while it is true she turned out to be an evil robot minion of dr. evil, i suppose i really did... love her.
speaker1: was that your wife?
speaker2: yes, vanessa.
speaker1: listen, austin, i can't pretend to understand everything you've gone through, but i trust you. i'll make you a deal: if we get out of here alive, i'll give monogamy a try.
speaker2: with me?
speaker1: yes, silly.
speaker2: groovy, baby!
speaker1: we need to lure the guard inside and get his key.
speaker2: alright, what if i pretend to be desperately ill with food poisoning? the guard, drawn by my cries of pain, will come to investigate. meanwhile, you dig a pit and line it with makeshift punji sticks made from sharpened toothbrushes. the guard falls in, bob's your uncle, and we've got the key. what do you think?
speaker1: that might work, but how about this?
speaker1: what do you think of these, my man?
speaker3: mommy...

speaker1: it's very hot in here, don't you think? 
speaker1: it's very hot in here, don't you think?
speaker1: austin!
speaker2: i'm very firmly wedged.
speaker1: if you want something done...
speaker2: almost... got it!
speaker2: let's go get my mojo!

speaker1: my frickin' mascot is stuck to the ceiling, ok? not good. papa not happy. 
speaker1: somebody get the stick. hold on, mini-me. begin laser- he's interrupted by terrible feedback. dr. evil taps and blows on the mic.
speaker1: . begin- worse feedback. he holds it farther away.
speaker1: begin laser ignition sequence.
speaker1: lunar alignment in 6 hours.

speaker1: where's your mojo, austin? 
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker2: watch out, baby, he-bots!
speaker2: i can't fight them without my mojo.
speaker1: who said anything about fighting?
speaker2: smashing, felicity, you were making me very horny, man! extremely randy, indeed!
speaker3: c'mon, give the lads a show. take of your top. put 'em on the glass! make 'em bounce. let's have a look at your
speaker2: fat bastard!
speaker3: looking for this, mr. powers?
speaker2: give me back my mojo, fat bastard!
speaker3: i give the orders, for brains. guards, take them back to their cells.
speaker1: hold on, let me ask you one question.
speaker3: alright, i guess i owe you that much for a night of carnal ecstasy.
speaker1: are you happy?
speaker3: what kind of stupid question is that? i'm in' rich and i'm up to my in clean stinky.
speaker1: you didn't answer my question, are you happy?
speaker3: it's about my girth isn't it? sure i could lose a few pounds, but i could shiva git!
speaker1: are you happy?
speaker3: of course i'm not happy. look at me, i'm a big fat slob. i've got bigger than you do! i've got more in' chins than a chinese phone book. i've got more crack cheese than a in' dairy. i've nay seen ma willie in two years. that's enough time to declare it legally deed! i can't stop eating. i eat because i'm unhappy and i'm unhappy because i eat. i'm caught in a cycle and there's no escape!
speaker2: maybe inside that fat there's a thin bastard, trying to get out
speaker3: maybe there's big inside me trying to get out, jack-ass! enough of your in' new age aphorisms. listen, i've run the gamut of self- help books. "food isn't love", right, but how do you get it from the page to the in' fork? i'm so weak, i hate myself. i'm for shite. here, take the mojo.
speaker3: i appreciate you trying to reach me, no one can do it for me, i know this now. there's a hole in my soul that food won't fill. this is the beginning of a new me. i'm gonna go to the gym everyday. if you'll excuse me, there's someone i have to get in touch with and forgive... myself. sorry. i farted. it's a long road ahead.
speaker2: hold on, i have something very important to do.
speaker1: how do you feel?
speaker2: sound as a pound, my spuds are boiling. fancy a shag?
speaker1: austin, we don't have time.
speaker2: c'mon, luv, let's hop on the good foot and do the bad thing!
speaker1: dr. evil's taken his laser to the moon. the world is in danger.
speaker2: right, the moon. i think i know someone who can give us a lift.
speaker4: there's been some sort of delay in the launch of apollo 11, walter, but we understand that america's first manned mission to the moon will be blasting off shortly.

speaker1: gor blimey, you'd have to be a rocket scientist to figure this stuff out. 
speaker2: i am a rocket scientist.
speaker3: we will have lift-off in t minus 10 seconds... 9... 8... etc.
speaker1: felicity, if you get frightened, just hold my hand.
speaker3: we have lift-off! apollo 11 has cleared the tower and is heading for a rendezvous with the moon.

speaker1: yaaaaa-hoooo! 
speaker2: austin, you have achieved lunar orbit. how was that lift-off?

speaker1: to be honest it was terrifying. it felt like sitting on top of a bomb. as i punched through the atmosphere, i said 'oh my god!' and i soiled myself. 
speaker2: happens all the time in that situation.
speaker1: no, i mean i soiled myself just now when i said oh 'my god!'
speaker3: basil, it was amazing!
speaker2: prepare for moon landing. we only have one hour until dr. evil fires the laser!
speaker1: mission control, the has landed.

speaker1: this is one small step for man, but a giant step for shagging. can you imagine it, baby, weightless? the permutations are mind-boggling. 
speaker2: naughty boy!
speaker1: save the queen.
speaker3: the queen? this is an american show, goddammit. let's roll that footage we shot last week in the studio.

speaker1: what? i can't hear you. 
speaker2: pay me 100 billion dollars or see washington dc destroyed!
speaker1: i'm sorry, i just can't hear you.
speaker2: how about now?
speaker1: better.
speaker2: the capital will be destroyed- the alarm blares.
speaker1: sorry! i just can't- i think it's that alarm.
speaker2: could someone shut off that frickin' alarm? i'm trying to hold the free world hostage here. honestly.

speaker1: please dr. evil, be reasonable. that's more money than is in the entire federal treasury! 
speaker2: oh well, i guess you have one minute to- "show me the money"!
speaker1: i still don't know what that means. i can't show you the money because we don't have the money.
speaker2: then i suppose you're up shit's crick without a paddle.

speaker1: let's find dr. evil. 
speaker2: shhh...
speaker1: austin, you've done it! you got dr. evil!
speaker2: of course i did, baby, i got my mojo working overtime.
speaker1: austin, i'm going ahead. cover my rear!
speaker2: oh, behave!
speaker2: poor little bugger. he's so small, he's like a dog or something.
speaker2: poor little bugger. felicity, be careful! dr. evil is still alive! felicity?

speaker1: alright, slap-head, turn around. slowly. 
speaker2: aren't you forgetting something?
speaker1: felicity! what have you done to her?
speaker2: don't worry, she's not dead... yet.
speaker3: don't worry about me austin. you've got to save the world!
speaker2: it looks like you have a choice, powers: save the world, or save your girlfriend.
speaker1: i've got my mojo back, man, i can do both.
speaker2: we'll see. fire the laser!
speaker1: hands off my joystick, baby.

speaker1: you, powers! 
speaker2: warning! self-destruct sequence initiated!
speaker3: see, dr. evil i told you i could do both.
speaker1: perhaps you spoke too soon.
speaker3: noooooo!
speaker3: felicity! felicity. wake up! wake up! please don't take her away.
speaker3: felicity, you have to understand, i thought i had my mojo back. this isn't fair.

speaker1: i have to commandeer this vehicle. hey, aren't you hutch? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: i'm starsky.
speaker4: i'm hutch.

speaker1: iceberg, dead ahead! 
speaker2: i'm king of the world!

speaker1: i'm going to kill you, you bastard! 
speaker2: before you do that, know this: austin, i am... your... father.

speaker1: really? 
speaker2: no. i can't back that up. i was just grasping at straws. i had nothing. but isn't it interesting, mr. powers, you really have become a product of the nineties.
speaker1: how so?
speaker2: you're more interested in your job as glorified policeman than you are in love. you won the battle, but i won the war. love means nothing, you've proved it.
speaker1: i didn't think that felicity was going to die, man.
speaker2: what a cowardly response. i'm disappointed really. you have the power to go back in time and save her, but it means letting me go.
speaker2: well, mr. powers, which is it going to be? me or the girl?
speaker1: felicity!

speaker1: it looks like you have a choice: save the world, or save your girlfriend. 
speaker2: i choose love, baby.
speaker2: felicity, i love you.
speaker3: but i thought-
speaker2: that was another place and another time, baby.
speaker3: can't. breathe.
speaker2: sorry, baby, i got a little over- stimulated.
speaker1: fire the laser!
speaker2: what do we do?
speaker3: use your mojo!
speaker2: i don't have it!
speaker3: trust me, you do!

speaker1: austin, you did it! 
speaker2: uh-oh. i think i just got my mojo back. really.
speaker1: austin, you had it all along. no one can take your, mojo away from you!
speaker3: good-bye, mr. powers, for the last time.

speaker1: sir, you better have a look at this radar. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: don't know, sir. it's hard to describe. it's... it's-

speaker1: just a little prick! 
speaker1: all done! good lord, what is that? if i didn't know better i'd say it's a-

speaker1: wang! 
speaker1: pay attention!
speaker2: i'm sorry, comrade teacher. was distracted by that enormous flying-

speaker1: rod? 
speaker2: yes, rachel?
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: it looks like a giant-

speaker1: peters! 
speaker2: yes, sir?
speaker1: any word from austin?
speaker2: we've picked up his signal, but the lunar base seems to self-destructing.
speaker1: austin, if you can hear me, use the time portal! there's no time to get to the lunar module! use the time portal!
speaker3: austin, you have to get to the time portal!
speaker4: come with me, felicity! it's the only way out!
speaker3: austin, will i fit in the nineties?
speaker4: if i did, anyone can. let's go, baby!

speaker1: sorry! 
speaker2: don't worry baby it takes some getting used to. let me ask you felicity, do you feel any side effects from the time travel?
speaker1: i'm as healthy as a horse.
speaker2: i love you, felicity.
speaker1: and i love you.
speaker2: do you want to get married?
speaker1: absolutely not.
speaker2: thank

