speaker1: this is it. this is the where he'd take her whenever he had the urge to molest her. 
speaker1: of course! nobody would have heard her cries over the noise of the machines.

speaker1: this defroster never works... 
speaker2: ...mmm... feels good.
speaker1: have a problem with your car?
speaker2: no. my problem's with men.
speaker3: this is where she murdered her first victim. they found his body over in the corner, shot through the head.
speaker3: they found her second victim over there.

speaker1: okay if i smoke? 
speaker2: ...sure.
speaker1: my matches are all wet. you got a lighter?

speaker1: she lured them here with the promise of sex. imagine the anger and hatred she must have felt returning to this place. did she use that to help her pull the trigger? carrie snaps another shot. flash!! the blinding flash 
speaker2: shhhhhhhhh.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: ...nothing.

speaker1: the distant echo of a woman's voice. 
speaker2: are you dead or alive?

speaker1: brian? 
speaker2: dead.
speaker1: obviously!

speaker1: man or woman? 
speaker2: man.
speaker3: real or fictional.
speaker2: real.
speaker4: ted bundy.
speaker3: what a guess!
speaker1: doesn't count, she's disqualified.
speaker4: why?
speaker1: because you've been living with him, and his thesis for the last year and a half. he's probably been researching ted bundy all week.
speaker5: carl, you are the world's worst loser!
speaker6: any word from that gallery?
speaker4: not yet.
speaker6: nervous?
speaker4: ...apprehensive. let's not forget these are the people who banned the mapplethorpe show. anyway, california's loaded with galleries.
speaker6: you mean 'ted bundy's' finally agreed to leave?
speaker4: ...soon as he finishes his thesis.
speaker6: listen, eric's been "finishing" his for over three years now.
speaker4: yeah, well brian's got 'til the end of the summer, then i'm outta here.
speaker6: i'm sorry, but i just can't see you veggin' out in la-la land.
speaker4: oh, i don't know... i think that once i dye my hair blonde, buy a string bikini and cultivate that tan... i could be veggin' out with the best of 'em... like fer shurr!
speaker7: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: i'm talking about the mind and culpability of a serial killer. someone who has no ability to distinguish between right and wrong should not be imprisoned, let alone executed. 
speaker2: oh, here we go again. let's just lay it all at the altar of misfiring synapses, amok biochemicals and horrendous childhoods.
speaker1: look, it's a fact, most of these people suffer from a severe chemical brain imbalance. that enough tequila?
speaker2: probably not...
speaker3: yeah, until it's your mother's head they find in the refrigerator.
speaker1: executing the killer wouldn't bring my mother back.
speaker4: thank
speaker1: ha, ha.
speaker2: yeah, but it'd sure make you feel better, wouldn't it?
speaker1: no, it wouldn't make me feel better.
speaker3: ...looking for this?
speaker4: if i have to listen to one more "tweed" talk about his dissertation, i'm going to throw up.
speaker2: label it anyway you want, the bottom line is these people are evil, plain and simple.
speaker1: okay, now you want to talk about good versus evil? well then let's start with adam and eve and the snake.
speaker4: who do i have to blow to get out of here?
speaker1: a... i gotta go.

speaker1: coffee and a bowl of chili, please. 
speaker2: ...be right there.

speaker1: the antichrist'll be a woman, in a man's body. seven heads and seven tails. 
speaker2: make that to go.

speaker1: ...size 6. 
speaker1: that's right ain't it, size 6?
speaker1: happy birthday adele.
speaker2: early, you are so sweet.
speaker2: i feel kind of like the wizard of oz, you know when she gets the red shoes.
speaker1: well dorothy, why don't you hand me that chili there.

speaker1: tonight turned out to be pretty interesting. 
speaker2: the party? she grabs a leather cap that sits on a chair.
speaker1: the warehouse. i'm not that drunk.
speaker2: it was definitely the high point of the evening.
speaker1: just being there where it really happened. it was different... more visceral.
speaker2: mmm... i love it when you talk like that.
speaker3: carrie pushes brian back onto the bed.

speaker1: you thirsty lucy? 
speaker2: she waters her small cactus .
speaker1: bet that feels good, don't it?

speaker1: early... 
speaker1: have a good one.
speaker1: oh... i forgot to tell you, mr. diebold was by again yesterday.
speaker1: he said, if he ain't got the rest of his money by the end of the month, he's gonna "kick us the... f-u-c-k outta here." early works his jaw, thinking.
speaker2: he said that, huh? cursed in front of you?
speaker1: you gonna talk to him?
speaker2: if he comes back, don't answer the door.
speaker1: suppose he hears me inside?
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.
speaker4: i picked up some chinese. did you hear from the gallery?
speaker4: you got your slides back.
speaker5: yeah, same old too graphic... not suitable for mass consumption... one of those... i forget. who cares.
speaker5: christ brian i'm dying here... you are too, you just don't know it yet. you're too busy working on that thesis... and, thing is... when you finally do finish it, it's just gonna get filed away on some shelf at the university library... then what?
speaker5: i thought you wanted to be a writer.
speaker4: ...i do.
speaker5: then you can write anywhere. let's get out of here, while we still can.
speaker4: carrie, come on... we can leave anytime we...
speaker5: no we can't. we can never leave once you start talking about tenure... and vacation pay... and parking privileges and... oh let's just go to california now, right now, before it's too late.
speaker4: ...just like that?
speaker5: just like that. load up the lincoln... point it west... stop when we hit the ocean.
speaker5: that's half the kick anyway. doing something you've never done before. experiencing something... different. something... unpredictable.
speaker4: ...these are great.

speaker1: adele, who's car's that out... 
speaker2: she's not here.
speaker1: what are you doin' here? i ain't supposed to be at the parole office 'til tomorrow, two o'clock.
speaker2: social call.
speaker2: you're supposed to call me when you lose your job early. i stopped by the mirror factory today, you left quite a mess behind there.
speaker1: wasn't my fault...
speaker1: ...it was dangerous there and they treated me like
speaker2: yeah... well you never have been 'treated right'... have you? your father was pickin' on you when he threw you out of the house for stealing the tires off his truck. the marines misunderstood you when they gave you that dishonorable discharge.
speaker2: ...the police were way out of line when they stopped you from beating that bartender half to death. and no doubt god'll be pickin' on you on judgement day...
speaker1: i ain't got nothing against it's the people he let come into the world... lot of them should have been stopped at the door. what are you looking for?
speaker2: that girlfriend of yours ain't much for housekeeping, is she.
speaker1: i'm thinking about moving...
speaker1: maybe down to texas... probably get some work on them offshore oil rigs. hear the pay's good... hell, the weather's got to be better'n here.
speaker2: what are you talking about? you know you can't leave the state. what you can do is get a job.
speaker2: you be at this personnel office, friday, three o'clock sharp.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: ...janitor's job.
speaker1: oh man... come on, i don't want no janitor job.
speaker2: hey, i don't give two about what you want or don't want... i'm telling you to be there friday, three o'clock sharp or the sheriff will be here for dinner. you understand?
speaker1: you oughta think about putting a bag over your head... might cure them hiccups.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: hey. i didn't have the heart to wake you. 
speaker2: thanks. what are you doing?
speaker1: well, i sat down with my tapes and your photographs, which are great by the way... and i started writing.
speaker2: so how's it going?
speaker1: ...i think it's the best stuff i've done.
speaker1: ...and i think i know why.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because i was there. and for a moment that night i understood how she came to pull the trigger.
speaker2: this mean your finally going to finish your thesis?
speaker1: look, the thesis. i think there's a book here. your photographs and my research, together.
speaker2: a book on the warehouse murders?
speaker1: a book on some of the most infamous murderers in america. i want to go to where they lived and where they killed and i want you to photograph it.
speaker1: what i'm thinking is, we can drop down through tennessee, across arkansas and into texas, from there it's a straight shot into california. "we don't stop... until we hit the ocean."

speaker1: it's about time, kessler! i'd just about given up on you. 
speaker2: we don't have enough money, but we'll figure something out.
speaker2: ...it's either the best idea i've had in a long time... or there's way too much msg in this stuff.

speaker1: hold on a minute there boy! 
speaker2: 
speaker1: goddamit, you're gonna settle up that rent here and now.
speaker1: i've had it with your boy. i want my money.

speaker1: as soon as the grand prix is out of sight... 
speaker2: that's it! you tell him... i want you both the out of here by sunday or i'm gonna call the police.
speaker2: ...you won't be laughing come sunday little girl.
speaker2: elvis! get the off him!

speaker1: you know, they say one of these days... 
speaker2: ...the whole thing's going to slide into the ocean... yeah, i know.
speaker1: "looking for someone to take turns at the wheel and share expenses... on a week long cross country blue- highways tour of historic murder sites..." you gotta be kidding. who in their right mind would want to do that?
speaker2: ...i would.
speaker1: like i said...
speaker3: where's the personnel office at?
speaker4: first door on the left.
speaker5: early?
speaker5: early? you down there?
speaker3: what's up adele? dinner ready?
speaker5: almost.
speaker5: early...
speaker5: tell me more about california.
speaker3: well... for one thing... they think faster out there, on account of all that warm weather they got; cold weather makes people stupid, that's a fact.
speaker5: i guess that'd explain why there's so many stupid people around here.
speaker3: yeah, and in california you never have to buy fruit 'cause it's all on the trees everywhere you turn... ...and, 'course there ain't no speed limit out there, and all drugs are legal... and i heard your first month's rent is free; state law. i figure 'til we get settled we can just move around month to month...
speaker5: what'll we do out there?
speaker3: well... the very first thing we're gonna do... is get us a couple of six packs of lucky lager and climb up on toppa' that famous hollywood sign and howl at the moon...
speaker5: you know... i read once... ain't nothin' on that big old moon 'cept some old golf those astronauts left behind.
speaker3: bull. that ain't right... government sends people there all the time, just don't want us to know about it.
speaker5: don't be long now, dinner's 'bout ready.
speaker3: i heard that.

speaker1: real polite. kept calling me 'sir.' 
speaker1: i like that.
speaker2: i still think we should have met them first.
speaker1: beggars can't be choosers. they were the only ones who answered the ride share note, remember?
speaker2: please we're gonna be stuck with these people for a week, don't let them be as boring as brian's friends. anything... but that.

speaker1: oh, yeah... he had a real thick accent right outta "deliverance." "still? who said anything about a still? get ya up in them woods!" 
speaker2: funny, very funny.
speaker1: "aintry? this river don't go to aintry."

speaker1: we shouldn't be doin' this, early. you leavin' the state, ridin' around with strangers... besides, what kinda people would want to stop at places where other people was murdered. 
speaker1: what if they're dangerous?
speaker2: they ain't dangerous adele. they're writers.
speaker1: early grayce!
speaker1: did you settle things with mr. diebold?
speaker2: yeah i left him with the car... we're all squared up now.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: early!
speaker1: what kind of a person would carry a cactus in her purse!
speaker3: the lincoln comes gliding into view.

speaker1: you've got to be kidding me, they look like okies! 
speaker1: jesus... they've probably got five bucks between them. turn around.
speaker2: lighten up...

speaker1: geez, they look kinda weird. 
speaker2: you just smile, let me do all the talking.
speaker1: how many times you gonna tell me that?
speaker2: as many times as it takes.

speaker1: hi i'm brian... early, and you must be adele. 
speaker1: let me help you.

speaker1: hi, i'm adele. 
speaker2: carrie.
speaker1: i like your hair.
speaker2: ...pardon?
speaker1: ...i said, i like your hair.
speaker2: ...thank you.

speaker1: tight fit. 
speaker2: best kind.

speaker1: uh, we can stop somewhere if you and adele haven't had time for breakfast, early. 
speaker2: well, it's like this, mr. kessler.
speaker1: brian.
speaker2: well, it's like this, bri'. i don't eat much in the mornin', never have. maybe a beer once in a while; lucky lager's my favorite.
speaker3: it's because of what he read in a book once... that folks needin' breakfast is a myth, or whatever, put out by those cereal people.
speaker4: early motions adele not to talk so much.

speaker1: so what do you do early? 
speaker2: oh... i do some work up at the merrick mirror factory, or i used to...
speaker3: one night we figured out how much bad luck he must have comin' from all them mirrors he broke... four hundred and ninety four years to work it all off... after he dies, he'll have to keep coming back to earth over and over and over...
speaker4: karma.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: karma... you know, if you do something bad to somebody fate will pay you back by something bad happening to you.
speaker3: that french ain't it?

speaker1: so adele, did early happen to mention the places we'll be stopping at? 
speaker2: yeah bri' i did.
speaker3: are you takin' the pictures?
speaker4: ...yeah.
speaker3: is it hard to learn?
speaker4: not really.
speaker2: you gonna talk to the people who did those murders?
speaker1: that's a good idea. unfortunately most of them have been executed.
speaker2: ...too bad.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: his parole officer.
speaker2: right, i talked to you on the phone. they say it's a torch job, that sound like your boy?
speaker1: could be.
speaker2: where would we find him?
speaker1: if i know, crazy son of a said he was thinking of moving to texas.
speaker2: without his car?
speaker2: what about the owner of the house... ...this john diebold, any idea where he might be?
speaker1: no, but i can tell you he's not gonna be too happy about this.
speaker3: christ!

speaker1: ...diebold? 
speaker2: ...that'd be my guess.
speaker1: looks like somebody cut off his ring finger.
speaker2: well now i'd say that's the least of mr. diebold's problems.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: all right, who gets the... ...water.
speaker2: here you go bri'. got a couple a bags of chips and some jerky, just holler if you want some.
speaker2: can't hurt.
speaker3: how much do i owe you?
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: guess i don't know the first thing about cameras.
speaker4: well, the first thing... is you need film. preferably black and white.
speaker1: you wouldn't have any color film, would ya?
speaker4: ...yeah, sure.
speaker1: i like things in color, pink, purple, and red. i dunno, black and white is kinda... boring.
speaker4: you just aim and press the button.

speaker1: look, pigeon forge! 
speaker2: road sign to pigeon forge.

speaker1: shush, adele. 
speaker2: early, can we stop there... just for a little while.

speaker1: the novaks are all gone but the fence that michael zaruba was hired to put up is still here. 
speaker1: the novaks embraced the young drifter as one of their own.

speaker1: hey you two. 
speaker1: give me a smile now.
speaker2: neighbors said he was a quiet young man, who was often seen pushing the children on the swing set.
speaker2: sorry, early... could you step out the way, for a second?
speaker2: the first one to die was the nine year old daughter...
speaker2: hello.
speaker2: ...my name's brian, what's yours?
speaker2: ...could i speak to your parents?
speaker3: pa! there's more of them.

speaker1: hi, my name is brian kessler. 
speaker1: i'm a writer, i'm working on a book about famous murderers.

speaker1: ...i mean, this was the novak house... with your permission i'd like to come in and photograph... 
speaker2: ghouls...

speaker1: we could have been in and out of there in less than ten minutes... 
speaker2: hey, i got some great stuff... it's okay.
speaker2: it's okay... okay?
speaker1: ...that house is part of american history now, whether he likes it or not.
speaker3: forget about it bri'. i wouldn't be surprised if that karma thing don't come back and get him.

speaker1: well we've come three hundred miles so far. not a bad day's haul. 
speaker1: you got any family or friends in california, early?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: me neither. how 'bout you carrie?
speaker3: no.

speaker1: thanks bri', i'll get the next one. think it's time we hit the sack. 
speaker2: sweet dreams.

speaker1: he can't help the way he was raised. i kinda feel sorry for him. 
speaker2: feel sorry for him? obviously you didn't get a whiff of that sock?
speaker1: 
speaker2: up yours.
speaker1: i heard that.

speaker1: can you believe thirty bucks for this room... for what? a lumpy mattress, that crummy tv and a crapper. 
speaker2: early, sing me a song.
speaker1: which one.
speaker3: early start sing with her... as the song ends.
speaker2: hey can we go to that chinese restaurant when we get to los angeles? you know, to see all them famous footprints?

speaker1: ...and all i'm saying is i think we ought to try and get along with them. that's all. 
speaker2: you try, i'm gonna pretend they're with somebody else.
speaker1: carrie.
speaker2: i don't want to talk about it.
speaker2: pretty smooth how he stiffed us on dinner?
speaker1: he didn't stiff us. he paid for the gas remember.
speaker2: i'm telling you he's nearly broke and we're going to end up paying for those two.
speaker1: you finished?
speaker2: ...um, maybe... maybe not.
speaker2: ...um... funky sock.
speaker2: ...and what's with that hair? is that grease or motor oil or what?
speaker2: ...you believe that tattoo? looks like he had another girls name there and carved it out.
speaker2: ...and that body odor.

speaker1: morning... 
speaker2: bri'.
speaker3: where's adele?
speaker2: she wasn't feeling so good.
speaker4: breakfast?
speaker2: nah... don't eat breakfast. never have.
speaker4: ah sir... sir.
speaker4: we ah... don't have a liquor license here. so i'm afraid...
speaker2: well don't be, i got plenty more where this one came from.
speaker3: you cut your hair.
speaker5: early cut it.
speaker1: nice job early.
speaker6: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: ...need a hand with those bags? 
speaker2: no, thanks, i can manage.

speaker1: i got 'em. 
speaker2: all set?
speaker3: 
speaker2: take your time.

speaker1: this the book your writing? 
speaker2: it's just a work in progress, kinda rough.
speaker1: this guy killed a mess of people.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: henry lucas.
speaker2: henry lee lucas. well he was only convicted of killing eleven but he claimed to have killed over three hundred.
speaker1: wonder what all them people done made him so mad? brian looks to early in his rear-view mirror.

speaker1: here bri' let me do that. 
speaker1: how did he get away with it for so long anyhow?
speaker2: he almost always killed strangers. spent years moving on from one place to another. that made it real hard to track him down.
speaker3: early's feet galloping.

speaker1: you dropped this. 
speaker2: early grayce if this ain't your lucky day.

speaker1: i used to smoke before i met early. but he broke me of that. 
speaker2: broke you?

speaker1: early don't think women should smoke or curse or drink liquor. 
speaker2: so you don't do any of those things.
speaker1: better not, or early'd whip me.
speaker2: he whips you?

speaker1: that bad? 
speaker2: ...then some.

speaker1: comes to twenty eight dollars. 
speaker2: talk to him.
speaker3: call it an even thirty.
speaker3: i'll drive bri'.
speaker3: adele, get in the back.

speaker1: ...hey you're good. thought you said you never played before? 
speaker2: i haven't... i'm a fast learner.

speaker1: ...they never caught that black dolya killer, huh? 
speaker2: dahlia, no.
speaker1: now why is that?
speaker2: some people think it's because he never killed again. he just disappeared back into society.
speaker1: you don't sound too convinced 'bout that?
speaker2: i always thought it was the work of a serial killer. anyone who took that much time and care bisecting another human being must have been enjoying it and would have done it again. and again. until someone stopped him.
speaker1: that your... "theory", ain't that what they call it?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you wanna hear mine?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: ain't you goin' to record it?
speaker2: early grayce, june twenty third.
speaker3: you lose!

speaker1: hey minnesota fats! 
speaker1: don't forget your key.
speaker2: why'd i open my big mouth?
speaker1: why didn't you go with them?
speaker3: i told you how early feels 'bout a woman drinking.
speaker1: how'd you meet early?

speaker1: you know i can fix that haircut for you, if you want? 
speaker2: you can?

speaker1: i wonder if there's any "doors" out here? 
speaker1: you know... "openings" to other dimensions. i read there are a lot of them out west, mostly in the desert. they say if you know what you're doing, you can travel anywhere in the universe in a matter of seconds. wouldn't that come in handy?
speaker2: by the way, i'm not much of a pool player.
speaker1: it ain't hard to play pool. i can teach you everything ya need ta know.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: yeah! i'll even spot ya a few points first game.
speaker2: wait a minute. you're gonna hustle me?
speaker1: nah... how much money have you got?

speaker1: how do you get your cigarette to stay there like that. 
speaker2: i'm cool.
speaker1: could i try that?
speaker1: what's this?
speaker2: it's a portfolio of my work.
speaker1: your pictures. can i see 'em?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: 
speaker1: you took this picture?
speaker2: took 'em all.
speaker2: that's me.
speaker1: no it is not!
speaker2: hold still.
speaker1: sorry. boy i'll tell ya, if early found a picture of me like that i'd be black and blue for a week.
speaker2: you shouldn't let him do that to you...
speaker1: do what?
speaker2: adele... are you serious?
speaker1: you think early's bad to me, don't you?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well... you're wrong. i ain't saying early ain't never hit me... but he never hurt me.
speaker1: ...when i was fourteen years old three boys raped me in the back of a truck, and beat me so bad i was in bed for almost four months... ...i feel safe with early, most the time he treats me pretty good. and i know he wouldn't let nothin' like that ever happen to me again... carrie is speechless, adele looks in the mirror at her new haircut.
speaker1: hey, that ain't so bad now.

speaker1: when you gonna give me so o' that! 
speaker2: maybe when you grow up a little sonny.
speaker3: these aren't lucky lager, i ordered lucky lager.
speaker2: sorry honey, 'ain't nothin lucky around here.

speaker1: what did you say to her city boy! 
speaker2: nothing, i jus...
speaker3: you'd better hit him first bri', 'cos it's comin'.
speaker1: this yur' boyfriend?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: hit him.
speaker1: hey asshole!
speaker2: they don't stock it here early.
speaker1: why you
speaker4: sorry about that, he's always causing trouble.
speaker4: these are on the house.
speaker5: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: my momma's a beautician. guess that's where i get it from. she wouldn't hear of my moving in with early... on account of his just getting out of jail and all. ain't seen her in nearly a year now. i wish she'd call me, just once. 
speaker2: what's early been in jail for?
speaker1: carryin' a gun.
speaker2: ...anything else?
speaker1: an' resistin' arrest... at least that's what the police said.
speaker2: jeez... adele!
speaker1: i'd better be goin'. it's late.
speaker2: great.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: got to see a man about a mule. 
speaker1: gotta take a piss.
speaker1: any reebs left in the back seat?
speaker1: aaahhhhh...
speaker2: last one. early stares at the last of the lucky lagers.
speaker1: ...well i probably drunk more than my share, anyway... you go on an' have it.
speaker2: no, it's all yours. it's on me... for saving my back there.
speaker1: hey, that's what buddies are for, right...?
speaker1: you know those doors i was talking about? found two of them back in kentucky. i wasn't even looking for one the first time. me and the boys are just swingin' our sickles by the side of the road, and i turned around and there it was... this door with this bright blinding white light all around it... course i'm thinkin' i must be sunstroked or somethin'... so i close my eyes figurin' i'll count ten and it'll be gone right... so i'm countin'... ...1-2-3-4-5... an' i'm 'bout ta myself right... -6-7-8-9... 10. an' i open my eyes slow, spectin' it won't be there right...
speaker1: ...and it wasn't. an awkward silence.
speaker2: what were you "swinging a sickle" for?
speaker1: for... 'bout three years.
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: gotta see a man about a mule... what's wrong? 
speaker2: the same thing that's been "wrong" the whole trip. your good buddy early.
speaker1: who said he's my good buddy?
speaker2: you sure been acting like you were... ...out whoopin' it up, a drankin' and ever' thang.
speaker1: hey come on, you two were drinking too... so what's the big deal.
speaker2: yeah, and you should've seen how terrified she was that he'd find out. he beats her.
speaker1: how do you know that?
speaker2: she told me... ...but only when she "deserves" it. did you know he was in jail?

speaker1: yeah, for stealing a car. aaahhhh. 
speaker2: 
speaker2: ...he told her it was for carrying a gun, but the truth could be murder for all we know.

speaker1: stop being so melodramatic! if it was murder he'd still be locked up or on parole, in which case he wouldn't be allowed to leave the state. 
speaker2: maybe he wasn't allowed to leave! geezus brian!
speaker1: of course! the accent, the clothes, and those table manners!... he's got to be a mass murderer! what else could he be? he switches off the bathroom light, steps out of the doorway, and begins to pull his jeans off. carrie climbs into bed.
speaker1: you know, it wouldn't even surprise me if he turned out to be... a republican!
speaker1: goddamnit!... my toe!

speaker1: ain't you done enough drinking for tonight? 
speaker2: ...brian hurt his foot.
speaker1: sometimes... don't know why it is... i get so hot i can't stand it. i just start sweating like a dog. you ever get like that?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i can feel it start to run down my neck... ...and down my back... right into my pants.
speaker1: ...and everything starts stickin' together... keeps running down the back of my legs like two rivers racin' for my boots, see who gets there first.
speaker1: you never get that hot, huh?
speaker2: i gotta get back before this ice melts.
speaker1: ...never?
speaker2: no, never. excuse me.
speaker1: you like skynard?
speaker3: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: my daddy always took sauerkraut juice and tobasco sauce for a hangover, mixed in one egg not two, and some tomato juice... 
speaker2: i'm okay, thanks.

speaker1: what! what! 
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: look again!

speaker1: only thing my old man ever gave me is that .45. 
speaker1: bri', you're jerkin' it when you pull the trigger, hold it real steady.
speaker2: boys'll be boys.
speaker2: you know any tricks?
speaker2: you wanna learn some?
speaker1: steady... breath in... now let half of it out, and... fire.
speaker1: bri, i want you to keep this gun... consider it a present. never know, california could turn out to be a dangerous place.

speaker1: tell ya bri., i'm still a little sleepy,... think adele and me are gonna take us a fiesta. 
speaker2: siesta.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: a copy of a tape they found. he recorded everything.

speaker1: his mother had him working in here before he was eight years old... killing animals with a sledgehammer that was bigger than he was. 
speaker1: when she was at him, she'd beat the out of him and lock him in here overnight...
speaker1: ...eventually the boy wakes up one morning, picks up that sledgehammer and starts hurting back.

speaker1: there's more... 
speaker2: i'm finished. carrie stops to pick up the rest of her gear.
speaker1: look... i know you're off about the gun, and i don't blame you...
speaker2: brian, i'm not off. damm it, turn that thing off.
speaker2: i'm scared. a week ago you would never have even thought to pick up that gun. this afternoon you're out there wielding it around like clyde barrow, for christ's sake! what's with you?
speaker1: okay, it was a cheap thrill, it was stupid, i admit it, alright? but let's not blow this. not now... let's just get the photos.
speaker2: i can't believe i agreed to do this.

speaker1: oh come on, don't give me that you wanted to take these photos as much as i wanted you too. 
speaker2: wrong! i was willing to do whatever it took to get you up off your and on the way to california... there's a big difference.

speaker1: brian i want him out of our car! 
speaker2: why, what did he do?
speaker1: brian get him out of the car. next gas station either he leaves or i do!

speaker1: twenty dollars in the tank and a carton of cigarettes. 
speaker2: ...the ex-mental patient with a history of arrests is still at large... static.
speaker3: here's your cigarettes...
speaker3: ...and change. better be careful, looks like a bad one coming. where you headin'?
speaker1: california.
speaker3: hear it never rains there. must be nice.

speaker1: ...we would like to repeat... 
speaker1: ...there is a nationwide manhunt for...
speaker1: ...is believed responsible for the murders of his landlord john diebold...

speaker1: if you see this man... 
speaker2: i ain't ridin' in no bus...
speaker1: ...call your local police or fbi... static.
speaker2: you just sit there and keep your mouth shut.
speaker2: i knew that boy'd have a hogleg here somewhere.
speaker2: get over here.
speaker2: sit your down in that corner.
speaker3: early, what're you doin'?
speaker2: go back to the car and keep brian there. i don't want him in here... do it adele... now!
speaker2: what's your name, boy?
speaker4: walter livesy.
speaker2: think. i might just have to kill you walter. how do you feel about that?
speaker4: not so good. you sure you have to?
speaker2: i don't know. wish i did.
speaker5: early, just think...
speaker2: shut your mouth.

speaker1: adele, what are you doing back here? 
speaker2: ...lost my purse... could you help me look for it? it's probably under the seat.

speaker1: where you from walter? 
speaker2: vernon, florida.
speaker1: never heard of it, any huntin'?
speaker2: turkey mostly.
speaker1: turkey's are real smart. smarter than most people think...
speaker1: tell you what walter, you lie down there now... you make sure you stay put for a while after we leave... okay?
speaker2: ...mind if i hold that bible?
speaker1: what do you need a bible for?
speaker1: you think i'm goin' to kill you. well that'd make me a liar then wouldn't it?
speaker2: no sir.
speaker1: here you go.

speaker1: carrie, what's wrong? early, we went through this already, you have to leave. 
speaker2: 'fraid not bri'... drive adele.

speaker1: hate to be an indian-giver but i'm gonna have to ask for my gun back. 
speaker2: what happened back there?
speaker3: he shot him in the head... oh
speaker3: he's a killer, brian... he's insane.
speaker1: everybody just shut up!
speaker1: you two just cooperate and do what i say, and we'll all arrive safe and sound in california, as planned... unless, of course, adele don't kill us first with her driving.

speaker1: what the is this stuff? 
speaker2: it's chinese food. it was the only place open. you said you was starving, you'd eat anyth...
speaker1: yeah but, what is it?
speaker2: i don't know, they didn't speak too good english.
speaker1: and just what exactly are the chinese doing here in the middle of the american desert anyway?... didja get the beer?
speaker1: ..."chink" beer!
speaker1: oh hell, i'm sorry bri. adele, honey, untie brian, he's starving over there. carrie, you want some? carrie doesn't respond at all. adele unties brian.
speaker1: where's the forks and spoons at!
speaker1: ...is it just me, or has this whole trip been goin' downhill ever since we ran outta lucky lager?

speaker1: well now, how many people d'you see me kill? 
speaker2: none.

speaker1: ...well then, that's how many i killed. 
speaker2: if you say so.
speaker1: right i do.

speaker1: you never killed anyone have you bri'? 
speaker1: you never even seen anybody killed, right?
speaker2: what are you getting at?
speaker1: you wanna tell me how'n the you gonna write a book 'bout somethin' you don't know nothin' 'bout?
speaker1: ya see what i'm sayin'? ha!
speaker2: ...ha.
speaker2: ...way too much msg.

speaker1: smile. 
speaker2: no way. i guarantee you he was breathing when i walked outta there.
speaker2: hey... ain't we getting near the next murder site... bri?
speaker3: forget about it, doesn't matter.
speaker2: it don't... ...hand me brian's map there adele. one day i'm gonna pass some store and see your book in the window. me and adele gonna buy a copy for our coffee table.

speaker1: figured your hands might be starting to hurt. 
speaker1: let's have a look. you girls coming?
speaker2: can i just wait here?
speaker1: don't worry bri', i'll take the pictures. ...you stay here with carrie. you run off... bri' pays the price. karma, remember?
speaker2: this is called walk the dog.

speaker1: so tell me... what happened here? 
speaker2: two brothers, prospectors, lived here. up until a few years back.
speaker1: ...and?
speaker2: they picked up hitchhikers... young men... and brought them back here.
speaker1: where'd they do it?
speaker1: bri.

speaker1: a distant empty ribbon of road. 
speaker2: this is one of my favorites... rock the cradle.

speaker1: ...they asked them just before they were executed why they did it. they said "to be famous." why do you do it? 
speaker2: do what bri?
speaker1: we both know you didn't have to kill that gas station attendant.

speaker1: you wanted to. why? 
speaker1: it make you feel good? powerful? superior, what? come on early, tell me something. were you angry?
speaker1: who are you angry with early... your mother, your father?
speaker2: you want to know about my daddy, i'll tell you about my daddy, bri...

speaker1: adele, listen to me... early's sick; he should be in a hospital. 
speaker1: the police are after him, he's a murderer!
speaker2: ...that's not true.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's not true!

speaker1: let's take a look. 
speaker2: i'll call in the plate.

speaker1: ...i wouldn't lie to you, adele. . . i saw him kill that man. 
speaker2: early didn't kill nobody, he wouldn't do that. i don't know why you're saying those things. you ain't my friend. with that, adele stops her dancing and turns away from carrie... to see the male officer walking toward them.
speaker2: please don't say anything carrie.

speaker1: officer needs help, shots fired, six adam five, one eighty-seven, suspects wanted in multiple murders. location unknown, last seen... 
speaker2: tell me that don't hurt.
speaker2: shoot him. you'll be doing him a favor.

speaker1: no, no, i can't. 
speaker2: it's the answer to all them questions of yers.
speaker2: now you'll never know.
speaker1: ...don't do it. early, look at him, look at his face. that's not your father.
speaker2: i know that. that there is a policeman in a world of pain. and this is what you call a mercy killin'. early shoots the cop again. the cop lays still.

speaker1: i'm still waiting. 
speaker1: not so much as a simple "thank you." adele at a loss. finally... confused...
speaker2: ...thank you.
speaker1: thank you for what? what are you thanking me for adele?
speaker2: ...i don't know.
speaker1: well adele... it was for... ...saving your life back there!
speaker1: darlin' you were 'bout that far from spendin' the night at the morgue. you understand?
speaker3: he wasn't going to shoot her, you murdering son of a
speaker4: carrie... stop it.
speaker3: what the is wrong with you brian!? if you'll stop taking notes for once and open your eyes... you'll see that he is a homicidal killer. he is... for real!
speaker4: shut up carrie, please... just shut up!

speaker1: off in the distance... an oasis of greenery. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: ...you can forget about 'em forever and then look at 'em and they're doin' even better than before. 
speaker2: adele... we gotta do something before early kills someone else.

speaker1: ...there ain't nothin' can kill 'em. they can live for two even three hundred years. 
speaker2: adele for sake please lis...
speaker1: there ain't nothing we could do. once early sets his mind on somethin', well thats the end of that.

speaker1: you've got beautiful cactuses here, i just love 'em. my momma used to keep a garden. 
speaker2: what's wrong with her?
speaker2: i'll bet she did.
speaker2: where's your husband?
speaker3: ...i'm a widow.

speaker1: my oh my, this is quite rare, quite rare indeed. come have a look... 
speaker2: the planet saturn and its glorious rings.
speaker1: peaches?

speaker1: you gotta talk to her. she looks up to you, she'll listen to you. 
speaker2: i tried talking to her at the mine. it didn't work.
speaker1: then try again,

speaker1: early? 
speaker2: well 'peaches'... you're a widow now.

speaker1: that's you ain't it? 
speaker2: you're right early...
speaker2: ...it is me. do you like it?
speaker3: go on now... please.
speaker3: ...call me.

speaker1: adele? 
speaker1: peaches! come on back here. there ain't nothin' for you to be afraid of.

speaker1: nobody wants to hurt you peaches! 
speaker2: early! stop!!
speaker1: oww! oww!! -- fuck!!!!
speaker1: honey... what do you think you're doin'?
speaker1: oh, n'jus what in you crying 'bout? i'm the one got hit.
speaker2: i changed my mind, early. i'm not gonna climb up that hollywood sign with you... i decided. i think your mean, and you hurt people.

speaker1: carrie, watch for early. 
speaker2: what are you going to do?
speaker1: i'm going to try and lift the end of the piano. if i can... slide your cuffs free.
speaker2: what about you?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: can you lift it again? just lift it, hurry.
speaker3: you two been busy in here.
speaker1: what happened to adele?
speaker3: well, let's put it this way. i need me a new woman.
speaker3: sorry about this bri...
speaker2: early, don't.
speaker2: i'll do whatever you want. you want me to go with you, i'll go with you. just don't kill him.

speaker1: pass me a beer hon'. 
speaker1: you wanna hit me with that, huh?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: stop lyin'... i can see right through you.
speaker2: who d'ya think you're foolin'? i know you better than you think...
speaker1: ...you're hurting me...
speaker2: i seen the way you been lookin' at me since we met... snappin' my photo when you thought i wasn't lookin'. wanting me...
speaker2: i saw you when i killed that boy...
speaker2: you were plenty hot.
speaker2: sick... some people might say takin' photos of me and adele humpin' in the back of the car is sick.
speaker2: ...you know what i mean?
speaker1: ...i know i'd love to smash this bottle right in your face.
speaker2: that's better... honesty... i like that in a woman.
speaker2: but i'll tell ya... when we get to california, we're gonna have to do something 'bout that gutter mouth of yours.

speaker1: which way did they go? 
speaker2: he took the fire road.
speaker1: take your car and get to that phone. call the police.

speaker1: you'll like it... 
speaker1: not a lot, but you'll like it.

speaker1: that was tricky of you bri. 
speaker2: carrie... carrie... it's over.

speaker1: go ahead bri, ask me something. you wanna know how i'm feeling'? well i'd say i'm feelin' pretty good. 
speaker1: how 'bout you? you feelin' good?
speaker1: ...'cause you sure don't look so good. or maybe you're feelin'... powerful. that it, you feeling powerful? superior? i know i am.
speaker1: what? am i angry with my daddy? now why would i be angry with my daddy... you're the one hit me with the shovel. and you're the one's gonna wish you hadn't.
speaker1: hey bri... i think i need a doctor. what d'ya say?

