speaker1: mrs. bruce's blood boils. 
speaker2: kiss! the devil's music!

speaker1: "i wanna rock 'n' roll all night and party every day!" 
speaker2: thank you, cleveland! you're a great crowd. but after three and a half hours of kick-ass rock and seven encores on top of that, i'm sorry to say that this time we really gotta get back to our hotel rooms and some groupies.
speaker3: what the trip? that's my bass!
speaker4: that was curly!
speaker5: just one more day of school to get through, girls, before tomorrow night... live! cobo hall! detroit, michigan! you wanted the best!
speaker6: you got the best! the hottest band in the world... kiss!!

speaker1: it's jam's mom! 
speaker2: my mom? oh, no! what's she doing here?
speaker3: jeremiah! jeremiah bruce! you get out here this instant!
speaker2: oh, hi, mom.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: the devil's body count, that's what's up! don't you know what kiss stands for? "knights in satan's service!"
speaker3: jam has yet to do an overnight with us.
speaker4: i had a nightmare once that something like this might happen. i hope he doesn't get grounded again. if he misses peter criss's drum solo, i don't know if he'll be able to handle it.
speaker5: lex, quit trying to always jinx things. don't worry, dudes. nobody's missing that concert tomorrow night.

speaker1: jam, listen up. 
speaker2: hawk?
speaker1: just listen up, man, cause we are in a quandary.

speaker1: are you on the crapper with one of those antenna phones? sounds like you're taking a dump the size of butte, montana. 
speaker2: it's my bullworker.
speaker1: anyway, listen up. they're gone!
speaker2: what's gone?
speaker1: the kiss tickets, you nimrod! they're just gone! please tell me you have'm!
speaker2: gone!? why would i have the kiss tick...?
speaker1: just check whatever you were wearing last night. now!

speaker1: he's got'm! 
speaker1: trip, he took your jacket by mistake. you must be wearing jam's.
speaker1: cool.
speaker2: i'm really sorry about that, man.
speaker1: don't be a fembot. so, are you like grounded because of last night, or what?

speaker1: poor, jam, man. imagine having to stash your kiss records inside carly simon album covers. no question, mrs. bruce is a psycho-bitch from hell. 
speaker2: you're one to talk, lex. your mom's a dyke.
speaker1: trip, a female gynecologist does not a lesbian make. and even if it did, at least my mom didn't give birth to me while she was on lsd.
speaker2: shrooms! and even if it was lsd, i can still give my mom a kiss without smelling the catch of the day.
speaker3: both you shaddap!
speaker3: enough of the mom-bashing, all right? lex's mom is cool about us crashing over here while she's out of town. and if it weren't for trip's mom, we wouldn'ta smoked that fine panama red last night. so leave the women who gave you life out of it. they're both cool.
speaker1: trip, you
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you spilled my sea monkeys all over the bed.

speaker1: jeremiah, what are you doing? 
speaker2: uhh... nothing.
speaker2: ahh, sunshine.
speaker1: you're going to be late if you don't hurry up and change soon.
speaker2: change? what's wrong with what i got on?
speaker1: it's dirty laundry for one thing and for another, you still haven't worn the clothes i bought you. you're skating on thin ice already, young man, so i wouldn't push my luck. now get out of those rags.
speaker2: but, mom!
speaker1: besides, those jeans are so tight i can see your penis.
speaker1: someday you'll see the futility in forging a musical career with those idiots.
speaker2: they're not idiots.
speaker1: now don't forget you're on the honor system tonight. i'll be home a little after one and if you've been partying or playing that satanic kiss music... well, need i remind you of the consequences?
speaker2: grounded for the rest of the year?
speaker1: you're a smart boy, jeremiah. and so handsome.

speaker1: school. what a waste of time. 
speaker2: will somebody please tell those chicks disco is dead.
speaker3: stellas. i hate stellas almost as much as i hate dogs.
speaker1: same species when you think about it.
speaker4: don't stare too long, you'll go blind.
speaker3: yeah, right. she wishes. look at that big ass.
speaker1: you know what they say about a big ass... big
speaker1: hey, that dork looks just like jam.
speaker3: that dork is jam.

speaker1: so, jam, who did your wardrobe, tad the preppie sailboat captain? 
speaker2: hey, my mom had me over a barrel, all right. after last night, i had to let her dress me today. it's a give and take relationship.
speaker3: yeah, she gives you and you take it.
speaker4: okay, enough. enough. gimme the tickets. i wanna hold onto them.
speaker2: they're still at my house in trip's jacket.
speaker4: they're what?
speaker2: she was standing right over me when i was changing for fuck's sake.
speaker1: that's some sick right there. did she comb your hair for you too?
speaker3: if your mom so much as smells those tickets, they're history, and we get screwed outta seeing kiss for the third year in a row, the third year!
speaker2: don't worry about it. they're perfectly safe. we can pick them up after school. my mom won't be home. it's no problem.
speaker4: all right. after school we double- time it to your house for the tix before heading to the train station for the 2:45 to detroit rock city.
speaker2: check.
speaker4: as they say in the tampon biz, see you next period.

speaker1: oof! sorry. 
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: beth?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: ow!
speaker3: mr. bruce, miss bumsteen, is there a problem?
speaker2: no. no problem.
speaker1: just a little pink eye. no reason to panic.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker2: jeremiah?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: i wanted to tell you something...

speaker1: jeremiah bruce, come to the office immediately... 
speaker2: oooo, you're in troubaaaallll.
speaker1: your mother's here and would like to see you right away...
speaker3: give me that microphone... jeremiah, you get your sorry self down to this office, mister!

speaker1: and something much, much worse! 
speaker2: holy my jacket!
speaker3: we see jam, hawk, lex, and trip agog in dread.
speaker1: if you know what's good for you, you'll get down here... now!

speaker1: i made an appointment with father phillip mcnulty at st. bernard's. we're to see him directly where he will register you on the spot. 
speaker2: you mean, you're sending me to... b- b-boarding school?
speaker1: what else can i do? oh, records and magazines and comic books are one thing, but tickets? tickets? jeremiah, do you realize what this means? that you're no longer content merely hearing their awful songs or looking at photos of their horrific faces! now you want to see the devil in the flesh. you want to reach out and touch pure evil... and in detroit no less!
speaker2: mom, three of those tickets don't even belong to me. they're for the guys.
speaker1: and if the "guys" have parents who truly love them, they will elevate me to sainthood for getting rid of these blasted things.
speaker1: it's been a long time coming, son, but you're finally going to get the kind of discipline you deserve.

speaker1: they slump against the wall devastated. 
speaker2: i knew it! i knew this was gonna happen! i had a bad feeling since last night. remember? we are so totally
speaker3: waitaminit, dudes! i got it! maybe we can glue the tickets back together!
speaker4: what are you, high?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: for once lex is right. it's over. things can't get any worse from here.
speaker5: i hope you rodents have hall passes!
speaker2: wanna bet.
speaker6: could that be three detentions i smell?
speaker4: second floor girls' john! two minutes! he'll never look there!
speaker2: check!

speaker1: you're way out of your league, elvis. 
speaker2: 
speaker3: hey, take it easy, man. this is the girls' crapper, remember?
speaker2: wake up, lex! we just watched jam's mom torch our kiss tickets! not reo speedwagon! not journey! not the bay city rollers! kiss! if you can think of a better reason to trash a bathroom, i'd sure like to hear it!
speaker3: trip, it's not the end of the world, okay? quit acting all squeezed out.
speaker2: oh, everything's hunky-dory now that the hit the fan just like you said it would, you snug you jinxed us!
speaker3: smug, trip! not snug, smug.
speaker1: we're clear, dudes.
speaker1: a skirt just came around the corner.
speaker1: that's sherry vanhafton.
speaker3: i've been in love with her since the second grade.
speaker1: whoa... she just farted.
speaker3: i have never heard a girl squeeze cheese in my entire life.
speaker1: weird...
speaker2: peeeyeewww! that stinks!
speaker3: heh-heh, sorry.

speaker1: someday you'll have a son just like you, jeremiah. a boy who lies through his teeth, buys demonic records, and smokes the dope just like you. 
speaker2: if i'm anything like you, i'll deserve him.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: i said, i'm sorry!
speaker1: if you truly are sorry, son, then you better pray like you've never prayed before. willed me to find those tickets because he wanted to hear from you. he knows you need help and he wants you to ask him for it.

speaker1: wonder if you could smoke out of this? 
speaker2: maybe some tunage'll chase those blues away.
speaker3: ...and this is simple simon on the rock of detroit, w.a.r.p., home of the biggest kiss giveaway in the history of the universe!
speaker3: i got four, count 'em, four front row tickets along with four backstage passes to the concert tonight at cobo hall and i'm giving them to the 106th caller who can tell me the real names of each kiss band member!
speaker4: too bad we're stuck in electronics or...
speaker2: never mind with the too bad i got a crazy plan, but only the craziest among us can pull it off.

speaker1: mr. verudi, get back to your bench. 
speaker2: but i gotta take a like you would not believe, mr. johansen!
speaker1: put a clothespin on it till the end of class, verudi. you know my rule.
speaker2: but ever since my doctor put me on salt pills, it's been like niagara falls every half hour! please, mr. j! have mercy!
speaker1: salt pills? don't insult my intelligence, verudi...
speaker2: jeezis, i'm taking a leak in my pants!

speaker1: i did it! i did it! we won! 
speaker2: we won?!
speaker3: a! woooooo!

speaker1: this is the best thing that ever happened to me at school! not only are we on again for kiss in detroit, but we're actually sitting right at the fifty yard line! i dare you dudes to find a curlier scenario. 
speaker2: stan lee couldn't think of a better one.
speaker3: the chinese have a proverb: "that which appears too good to be true, usually is." there's gotta be a catch.
speaker1: yeah? i have a saying too, lex. it goes, "catch my in your mouth and stop jinxing us, asshole." we're going this time and that's all there is to it.
speaker2: i'm afraid our constipated little friend is right this time, trip. there is a catch.
speaker1: namely?
speaker2: our band "mystery" is a quartet and we can't go on the road without our drummer. jam's mom said something about sending him to st. bernard's, right? we gotta bust him out before we go anywhere.
speaker3: but... but, st. bernard's is way the over in the next county!
speaker2: so? your mom's car has a cb, radar detector and cruise control, check?
speaker3: we are not stealing my mom's car.
speaker2: straight we are.
speaker3: hawk, all i need is one ding on the volvo and presto! there are my hanging from the rearview mirror after she gets back from cincinnati.
speaker2: and when is she due back from that groinecologist's convention anyway?
speaker3: sunday, but...
speaker2: then lighten up. she'll never know we touched it. alright, here's the plan. we bus it to chez lex, grab the volvo, bail jam the outta st. bernard's and arrive at the train station precisely on time for the 2:45 to detroit.
speaker1: simplicity, hawk.
speaker3: simple-icity is more like it. and you guys thought jam was in trouble before. wait till mrs. bruce finds out he went to that concert with us.
speaker2: there's only so much trouble an individual can get into till it just doesn't matter anymore, lex. you familiar with a condition known as absolute zero?
speaker3: the hypothetical temperature characterized by the absence of heat and even the slightest amount of molecular activity? yeah, i'm vaguely familiar
speaker2: well, jam is in absolute trouble. he couldn't get any deeper into if he was a fly sitting in a horse's ass. you know as well as me he'd give his right arm just to see peter criss's drum solo, never mind a whole kiss concert, check?
speaker2: well, the least we, his only buds in the world, can do is take him along with us tonight and give him one last curl before he starts serving his sentence.
speaker1: just for the record, i understood the last part of what you said, but for a while there you guys were making no sense whatsoever.
speaker2: i was just explaining to lex here what you and i already know. just had to make it a little more complicated so he'd understand.
speaker3: very funny, hawk. okay, i'm in on this hare-brained scheme, but if anything happens to my mom's car, i'm blaming you. i'll say you drugged me or something.
speaker2: curly.
speaker2: ok, dudes, follow my lead.
speaker3: wait a minute. we ditching the rest of school?
speaker1: about time if you ask me. i'm just going through the motions till i drop out anyway.
speaker3: hello summer detention.
speaker2: as i was saying, follow my lead. and maintain. elvis just showed up.

speaker1: kiss concert? kiss my morelike. a nice, fat detention oughta put a crimp in this evening's plans. 
speaker1: looking for something, rodents?
speaker2: yeah, elvis...
speaker2: ..your on a lunch tray.
speaker2: on your marks and...
speaker2: fire!
speaker2: elvis, you ain't nothin' but a hot dog.
speaker1: nooooo!!

speaker1: well, here we are back at school again. 
speaker2: huh. st. bernard's. figures it's named after a canine.

speaker1: again, many thanks and praise to you for seeing jeremiah on such short notice. 
speaker2: anything for a potential tuition... to be given to charity of course.
speaker1: bless you, father mcnulty.
speaker2: he already has.

speaker1: before enrolling you, jeremiah, let me just say it would be greatly appreciated if your career at st. bernard's was an uneventful one. some students believe they can get expelled through disobedience and recklessness. what they don't understand is even after vengeance is meted out, he forgives. that his devastating anger is followed by his nurturing compassion. in a nutshell, st. bernard's may punish you even for the slightest digression, but will never cast you out, even for the largest. so here you are, jeremiah... here to stay! 
speaker1: let's begin the enrollment, shall we?

speaker1: now, how are we gonna do this? 
speaker2: gimme a second, dudes. lemme think.
speaker3: mmm, pizza...
speaker4: hey, you guys know where... philip mcnutly's office is?
speaker2: yeah, i'm philip mcnutly.

speaker1: jeremiah, are you aware you need to answer these questions, not just listen to them? jeremiah? 
speaker1: please don't become difficult this early in your stay. i hate disciplining boys before i get to know them.
speaker2: forgive me, father. a young man here with a pizza for you?
speaker1: ah, yes! send him in sister conimaria.
speaker1: well, what's the damage, pizza fellow?
speaker3: ten even.
speaker3: if he offers you a slice, you're not the least bit hungry, check?
speaker4: check.
speaker1: here's ten and i'm donating your tip to the church. the lord thanks you.
speaker3: tell the big guy not to mention it.
speaker1: and not a moment too soon. i'm famished. i hope you brought a lunch for yourself.
speaker4: no, but i'm not hungry anyway.
speaker1: well! it finally speaks. there's one barrier we've broken through.
speaker1: you know, your coming here reminds me of a gospel called the prodigal son.
speaker1: there was once a farmer who had two sons. both grew up on the farm, helping their father until...

speaker1: usually takes anywhere from ten minutes to half an hour. 
speaker2: this is such a lousy view. how the are we gonna know when he's lit?
speaker1: he's lit.

speaker1: you kids can't go in there! 
speaker2: it's okay, we're old buds of father mcnulty... how's it hangin', padre?
speaker3: a little to the right, pizza fellow.
speaker2: that was another dude. anyway, we're here to take our bud jam to the big satanic kiss concert tonight. okay with you?
speaker3: rock on!
speaker3: give my regards to the guy with the really big tongue!
speaker3: what the are you doing, sister gonorrhea, waiting for a bus?
speaker3: h. christ, look at all the colors.

speaker1: oh, man, my mom is gonna send me to alcatraz for this and i don't even care! i'm gonna see peter criss's drum solo! 
speaker2: not looking like that, mr. rogers.
speaker2: we got you a change of duds when we picked up the car.
speaker3: next stop: the 2:45 to detroit rock city!
speaker2: my mom's hubcap!
speaker3: anybody know how long it takes to fix a flat?

speaker1: jeezis, hawk, can you at least keep it within twenty miles of the speed limit? 
speaker2: lex, am i gonna have to lock you in the trunk till we reach detroit? don't worry, these babies are built for speed.
speaker3: i'm starvin' and it's way past lunchtime.
speaker2: totally. all i've had for chow was a packet of pop rocks and a yoo-hoo.
speaker3: let's stop in sandusky, hawk.
speaker2: what's in sandusky?
speaker3: pizza, and i been jones-in' for a pizza ever since we left st. bernard's.

speaker1: eyowch! this is one hot pizza! 
speaker2: trip, huck that out before it stains the upholstery!

speaker1: stop singing... now! 
speaker2: hey, kenny, look! there's a hunk of fawkin' cheese on your windsheel!

speaker1: holy we just off the incredible hulk, his half brother and two circus clowns. 
speaker2: stop the friggin' car now!
speaker3: don't you think we should at least pull over and offer to clean it off?
speaker4: what?! are you mentally deranged, jam?
speaker4: what the
speaker1: the paint!

speaker1: do you realize the sheer, goddamn, unadulterated, undiluted, no holds barred, one hundred percent pure as ivory snow, absolutely friggin' stupidity of what you just did? 
speaker2: hey, disco dude, it's cool...

speaker1: lemme paint you a friggin' picture ahright? imagine if you will a 1978 pontiac trans american in pristine condition. an appealing portrait, nesspah? 
speaker1: but wait! what's that spec on the windshield? could it be a wad of melted mozzarella, tangy tomato sauce, and various friggin' meat products?
speaker2: could be.
speaker1: and if it ain't cleaned off?
speaker3: kenny, come on with the macho already. like this kid could take you in a fight anyway.
speaker1: answer me, hippie girl. and if the mess ain't cleaned off my car?
speaker2: it could... bake on?
speaker1: you're a smart little homo, aren't you, hippie girl? but, while astounded at your nimble, friggin' insight, i still detect an issue hanging fire, namely: where does a sharp-witted like yourself get off doing such a dopey thing like that there?
speaker1: no really, i'm perplexed. i mean, could you have done stupider if you were born without a head?!
speaker3: oh! with the language!
speaker1: shut-up, christine!
speaker2: okay, kenny? i don't mean to drain your keg or anything, but could you speed up this process? don't get me wrong, we'd love to stand here and get on by the cast of saturday night fever, but we're also on a schedule. so step on it.
speaker1: are you gettin' wise with me?
speaker2: no, i'm dumber than a slug. now can i please clean your windshield and leave without further ado?
speaker4: break his fawkin' legs, kenny!
speaker1: oh, you're all right, you hairy punk. but please, allow me to clean the friggin' windshield. i insist.
speaker1: there. nice and clean.
speaker1: oh, no, no, no! it's the band!
speaker5: whoa! this is about pizza! let's leave kiss out of it. please.
speaker1: a bunch of guys who make bad music, dress like freaks, and wear more make-up than all my sisters combined? these must be stopped!
speaker3: that's it, kenny! i'm leaving!
speaker6: oh, christine! you googatz in the head or something? we're on the side of the freakin' highway!
speaker4: let her go, barbara, she'll come back to kenny. she always does... right, kenny?
speaker1: kool and the gang, now there's real music.
speaker1: but this... is crap!
speaker1: so. all that having been said and done, i believe we are ready for the final topic of discussion. namely: have you learned your lesson yet, puke?
speaker2: well, let's recap, shall we? you slapped all of us, yelled at me, used my head for a rag, threw me on the ground and tossed our love gun 8- track under the wheels of a passing semi. so, if the lesson was that you're a with ears and a really bad haircut, then, yes... i'd say we learned it.
speaker1: excuse me, i'm a little deef-a- hearin'. can you repeat yourself?
speaker2: okay. ahem! you. are. a. with. ears. and. a. really. bad. haircut.
speaker1: oh, yeah...?
speaker1: that's not what your mother said last night.
speaker2: it's not, huh? well, then, tell me...
speaker2: ...what exactly did my mother say last night?
speaker2: you heard me, prick. what did my mother say last night?
speaker1: okay, fagmo... i'll tell you what your mother said last night. she said that i was the of her life.
speaker2: how would you like a nice hawaiian punch?
speaker1: sure.
speaker7: not so fast, stella.

speaker1: when they wake up, they're gonna come looking for you jerks. you best hope they don't find you, cause if they do, they're gonna kick your asses. 
speaker2: right, stella, and we'll deserve it. but let's really make it worth their while.
speaker2: by the way, when kenny wakes up could you give him a message for me. tell him, quote, kool and the gang bite my bag, unquote. he throws the trans am into drive.
speaker3: oh, thanks for letting us draw from your ample make-up supply. you must have the entire revlon factory in your purse!

speaker1: hey, look, it's that girl. 
speaker2: that's no girl. that's a stella.
speaker1: stella or no stella, we should pull over and help her out.
speaker3: oh no, jam. i'm not falling for that twice.
speaker1: well, couldn't you slow down so i can at least state my case, hawk? if you don't like it, you can speed up and i'll never mention it again.
speaker4: what is it with you, jam? you got a thing for that... thing?
speaker1: she's a teenage girl walking on the side of the highway. they make very scary movies that start out like that.
speaker3: well, they may not make movies about four dudes going to a kiss concert. but if they ever did, the four dudes most certainly would not stop and pick up a stranded disco bunny.
speaker2: unless there was gonna be a scene where the disco bunny blows the four dudes on the way to the show.

speaker1: oh, great. i just hitched a ride with a bunch of potheads... i'm hooking up with some people at this funky place in downtown detroit called disco inferno. mind droppin' me there? 
speaker2: what's it worth to you?
speaker1: what the is that supposed to mean?
speaker3: it doesn't mean anything. don't pay attention to him.
speaker4: disco inferno? disco's infernal morelike.
speaker5: your clothes may say disco, but your eyes say rock 'n' roll, baby.
speaker1: well, your tee-shirt may say rock 'n' roll, but your breath says pepperoni, baby.
speaker2: so, are you, like, gonna polish our nobs, or what?
speaker1: what? that's disgusting!
speaker3: trip! that's so rude, man.
speaker2: oh, quit bein' the wussy, sensitive guy to impress her, jam. she's obviously not gonna put out. she's a tease.
speaker1: tease? what the did i do to tease you mongoloids?
speaker2: you got in the car, didn't you?
speaker1: oh, how calculating of me to lead you all on like that after you offered me a ride in the middle of nowhere.
speaker2: whatever... stella.
speaker1: the name's christine, not stella. and there's no need to be such pigs just cause i prefer donna summer or kc and the sunshine boys or the village people over kiss?
speaker4: the village people? they're fags! you're a hag!
speaker3: come on, hawk.
speaker1: i can take care of myself, but thanks anyway, germ.
speaker3: jam.
speaker1: whatever. okay, joe burnout, let's get one thing straight here. as far as i'm concerned good tunes is good tunes, be it disco or rock or polka or whatever have you, regardless of the category. true, if i had to choose, i'd pick the category labelled disco because i happen to enjoy dancing. disco is just easier to dance to.
speaker4: you call that john travolta/denny terio dancing? i wouldn't dance like that in private if you paid me.
speaker2: disco blows dogs for quarters.
speaker1: now there's an intelligently biting remark wrought with wit and irony.
speaker4: hey, if you don't like that one, maybe you'll think it's funny when we throw your out the car!
speaker1: yeah, why don't you put your money where your mouth is?
speaker4: why don't you kiss my hairy crack?
speaker1: why don't you bend over, you're looking right at it!
speaker1: man, this is some kickass gimme a hit off that jay will ya?

speaker1: man, that weed knocked christine on her ass. she's sleeping like a baby stella. 
speaker2: let's lift up her shirt.
speaker3: there it is!
speaker4: we made it!
speaker1: curly driving, hawk. we still got two hours to spare.
speaker3: ample time to grab our tickets at the station. see, up ahead. w.a.r.p.
speaker3: hey, look at the front entrance! a car's pulling out. the parking space from heaven. is surely smiling down upon us tonight, dudes.
speaker4: kind of funny, i thought he'd be as at me.

speaker1: what was that d.j.'s name again? 
speaker2: oh, i'll remember it till the day i die. his name was... simpleton the simian? no, samson samoan... no, simply, similar...

speaker1: simple simon? 
speaker2: the one and only. but can you kids hurry this up? i'm due at coco hall in half an hour for the warm-up.
speaker1: we're right behind you, simo. just wanted to thank you in advance for handing over those burly-ass tix me and my buds won this morning.
speaker2: your name isn't trip is it?

speaker1: simple simon on the rock, go caller. 
speaker2: hello? is this me? i'm trip. am i on the air?
speaker1: i should hang up on you right now, but you're the right caller so answer quick or get your battleship sunk. what are the names of the four members of kiss?
speaker2: gene klein, stanley eisen, paul frehley, and peter...criscula! yeah, that's it!
speaker1: is that your final answer?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: trip? you just got yourself four tickets and four backstage passes to kiss live at cobo hall tonight!
speaker2: i did?
speaker1: yeah, you did!
speaker2: yeeeehaaawww!! this is totally curly, man! thank you

speaker1: trip? trip? oh, man, you didn't hang up on me did you? trip? what kind of total moron would hang...? 
speaker2: well, there you have it. we had no choice but to give the tickets to the next caller. i'm sorry.
speaker2: we got sodas in the fridge if that helps any.

speaker1: well, here we are, dudes. one hour and thirty minutes away from the concert of the century... ticketless. all thanks to wile e. coyote, super- genius over here. 
speaker2: really, trip, can we bore holes in your head and use it as a bong so it actually does us some good for a change?
speaker3: you, lex! this whole thing wouldn't have happened if it wasn't for you jinxing us. i just made an honest mistake.
speaker1: oh, i'm sorry, trip. what you made was a big, brainless, pile of horse no offense.
speaker4: guys, guys! come on, if this is anyone's fault, it's mine. i was the one who grabbed trip's jacket by mistake. it's my fault and i apologize.
speaker1: please, jam, we're trying to vent some hostility here. sure the whole thing may be your fault, but who's gonna get off at you?
speaker4: sometimes i think i don't deserve friends as good as you guys.
speaker1: i have one question. how could a kid who wails on the drums like it's the only thing keeping him alive even think of such a femmy thing to say?
speaker3: really, jam, you tryin' to make us barf?
speaker2: yeah, it's like you're possessed by the flying nun, or something.

speaker1: uh... dudes? 
speaker2: now there's a woman who totally abuses the privilege of motherhood.

speaker1: where's the volvo? 
speaker2: it's gone.
speaker1: i can see that, bright boy. what happened to it?
speaker3: it was stolen!
speaker4: christine stole it! asleep, my ass! the stella booted with your mom's wheels.
speaker1: but we took the keys?
speaker2: damn, she musta hot wired it. we picked up a professional car thief in the shape of olivia newton-john!
speaker1: okay, i'm just a little mad now! jam, why'd you talk us into picking that up in the first place!?
speaker3: i'm sorry, guys. i thought it was a nice thing to do.
speaker4: jam, not another word out of your femmy-ass mouth! okay, we're here, we got nothing, and we got an hour and a half. we're totally committed. it's time to brainstorm.
speaker1: here's a suggestion. let's stop worrying about the concert for the time being and get the cops in on this volvo situation.
speaker4: wake up, lex. this is detroit. the cops aren't gonna waste city dollars looking for a swedish car. face it, the volvo's on a cutting board as we speak getting sliced, diced, and julienned by christine, the chop shop gourmet.
speaker4: now listen up. here's the game plan.
speaker1: ...i mean, my mom's got insurance. what's the worst thing she could do? ground me for the entire year? i can handle that...
speaker4: cool, bro, now listen up...
speaker1: ...holy i am in absolute trouble! i never should have let you drive, man! absolute trouble!
speaker4: okay, shut the up, lex! now, then, step number one, we find us a scalper. i got... twenty-five.
speaker2: twenty-five more'n i got.
speaker1: all i got is five. the rest is in the volvo.
speaker3: i got...
speaker4: uh-uh. don't tell us, jam. just show us.
speaker4: so maybe we got enough for one ticket.
speaker2: waitaminit, dudes! i got it! we find four really small kids, beat the outta them and steal their tickets. what do you think?
speaker4: brilliance, trip. sheer brilliance. give albert einstein here the nobel prize.
speaker1: i think we should try sneaking in.
speaker4: four dudes sneaking in? we'd get busted fer sure. bad plan.
speaker1: okay, one of us sneaks in, gets four ticket stubs off some kids in the audience, comes back out, and we all "re-enter" the concerto. voila!
speaker4: still too risky for my money. we're running out of time here. this is kiss! a victory for one is a victory for the team. i'm sure i can barter with a scalper, but if you dudes think you got better plans, go for it. we'll reconvene at that intersection...
speaker4: ...at twenty-thirty hours.
speaker2: one more time in english.
speaker4: for the next hour and a half it's every dude for himself. try to get at least one ticket and at 8:30 p.m. we'll meet over there.
speaker3: wait! i know how we can get in!
speaker4: jam, shut-up! you're not allowed to speak, remember? go use whatever femmy idea you have to get yourself a ticket or four. i don't wanna hear it.
speaker3: but... my plan involves all four of us acting together.
speaker4: see you at 8:30, jam. later. dudes? later.
speaker5: look around you tonight, mothers! look at all the young faces! they smile and laugh but their eyes have lost all hope! not one among them appears to possess the love and fear of this satanic group kiss has stolen their souls.
speaker3: oh... dear... lord!!
speaker6: i don't know how you got here tonight and i don't want to know either. all i know is you're going to pay dearly for this one, young man!

speaker1: mom, what're we...? 
speaker2: just keep your lying, heathenous trap shut, jeremiah.
speaker3: what a wonderful mass, father/so inspirational, father/thank you.
speaker4: thank you/come again next week.
speaker4: next mass is tomorrow morning, sister.
speaker2: can we talk, father? i'm desperate. my son was about to defy by going to that blasphemous kiss concert.
speaker4: in that case, come right in.

speaker1: oh my that's jeremiah! 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: jeremiah bruce from school. he and his mom just went into that church. he must be in detroit for the concert. can i go say good-bye to him?
speaker3: beth, i am not letting you wander the streets of detroit after dark.
speaker1: i'm not going to wander. i'm just gonna go over there.
speaker1: he's with his mom.
speaker2: fine, as long as we know where you are. but don't be long. we need to be getting back on the road.
speaker2: she's probably got a little crush on that boy.

speaker1: hey, chief? need a ticket? 
speaker2: second row center, seventy-five clams.
speaker3: dude, this is all i got.
speaker2: sorry, man, no can do. but i'll be here for a while if you scare up the extra gravy.
speaker3: where the am i gonna scare up that kinda gravy in one hour?
speaker2: the easy way.
speaker2: you look a little scrawny, but it's worth a shot.
speaker3: i can't just walk in and take my clothes off. it's embarrasskin.
speaker2: guess you don't want to see the greatest show on earth. and in detroit no less. well, take care, chief.
speaker3: dude, if it were dancing the way fred astaire did it, i'd give it my best shot. i'd learn the steps and practice in my spare time. but this... tribal, ritualistic bullshit, it's way-too-spontaneous for me.
speaker2: yeah, you're probably too young anyhow.
speaker3: hey, i invented fake i.d.s, alright. that's not the problem... they're playing disco music in there, man.
speaker2: chief, here's a little secret. drink heavily, your feet will know what to do. now or get off the pot. do you wanna dance or do you wanna see kiss only on their album covers?
speaker2: you sure you'll have a ticket for me?
speaker2: you have my solemn oath as a public servant.
speaker2: hey, chief, you need a ticket? second row center, seventy-five clams.
speaker4: no thanks, dude. i'm beating my ticket out of some poor, defenseless chump.
speaker2: what's happening to kids today?

speaker1: like to sign up for the contest. 
speaker2: you're a little scrawny, but thanks to the concert we're low on amateurs. name?
speaker1: hawk.
speaker2: pick a song, hawk.
speaker1: got any kiss?
speaker2: you kidding? this is detroit. drink?
speaker1: yeah, a man's drink...
speaker1: ...dickey.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: you mean you never seen a jack daniels on the rocks before?
speaker1: sure, i have. but not one with ice in it, that's all.
speaker1: whoa... she is a killer.
speaker2: amanda finch. her ex is one of the wealthiest businessmen in detroit. play your cards right and you could hit paydirt. she like 'em young. and since you look a little new at this, let me give you three words of advice. hard to get. think it, act it, know it, be it. nothing a woman loves more than when you beat her at her own head games.

speaker1: hey, you little twerps, gimme your kiss tickets or i'll pop your faces in. 
speaker2: we don't have any kiss tickets.
speaker3: yeah, kiss
speaker1: i oughta kick your for sayin' that.
speaker1: but i'm in a hurry so i'll just take this instead. now scram.

speaker1: hey, little kid. 
speaker2: you just skunked my last ball, you...
speaker1: okay, booger, your kiss ticket or your life.
speaker1: hunh?
speaker1: oh. okay... but scream and you'll never live to see puberty. i'll pop your face in.
speaker2: please sir, don't beat me up. i do have a kiss ticket, but not on me.
speaker1: a likely story. hand it over, kid.
speaker2: no really. my brother's hanging onto it for safe keeping. please, let me get him for you.
speaker2: hey, chongo!
speaker1: hey, kid, that's okay. i don't wanna see kiss that ba...
speaker2: don't try to run, maggot. chongo's an all-state track star in every event.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: a tag on your toe. nobody threatens me and lives.
speaker1: look, you can have my wallet...
speaker2: it's not nearly enough, punk.
speaker2: besides, i was gonna take your wallet anyway. after chongo and his friends crush your ribcage like a pack of luckys.
speaker3: this fairy givin' you bro?
speaker2: he was gonna mug me for my kiss ticket.
speaker1: me? mug? that's nuts. i said, do you know where i can take a piss.
speaker3: okay, pimple dick, you've got the option of walking outside with us or gettin' dragged out. either way you're comin' with us.
speaker1: please, sir, don't kick my ass! i'll do anything to get out of a beating!
speaker2: say, chongo, perhaps we could use some extra cash for tasty snacks at the kiss concert our weasly friend won't be attending.
speaker3: how much cash do you figure?
speaker2: take five for a minute, chongo. let me do the math.

speaker1: whoa. danger will robinson. 
speaker2: hey you! get back in here!
speaker2: you're not getting far, kid!
speaker2: we got one just ran into the field from the north lot!

speaker1: there he is! 
speaker2: 

speaker1: alright, wiseguy, you are so outta here! 
speaker2: hey, what the
speaker2: keep your paws to yourself, ya apes.
speaker1: where'd he go? you see him?

speaker1: uh, next mass isn't until tomorrow morning, young lady. run along now. 
speaker2: now it's been a while since my boy had holy confession. could you...?
speaker1: consider it done.
speaker2: it's about time you gave up on that stupid dream once and for all. no son of mine is going to be a career musician.
speaker2: thank you, father. i'll be back for him before you know it; after i take care of some unfinished business.
speaker1: just knock loudly, sister.
speaker1: come along, son. get into the booth.

speaker1: forgive me, father, for i have sinned. this is my first confession in... well... a really long time. 
speaker2: prepare to receive the act of penance. how many sins have you committed since your last confession?
speaker1: just one, father, but boy was it a doozy.

speaker1: you're up, hawk. 
speaker2: oh, dicky, i c-c-can't...
speaker3: you're not gonna chicken out on me now, are you? we've got your kiss song playing and everything.
speaker2: i-i c-can't...
speaker3: look, people undress in public because, a, they're exhibitionists, b, they're nutcases, or c, they need the money. i can tell you're not a, and i hope to you're not b. so my suggestion is, think about why you're a c and let your body party, shake your groove thing, boogie oogie oogie till you just can't boogie no more. hawk thinks about it, then downs the rest of his drink. he grimaces at it's taste, then opens his eyes with new resolve.
speaker2: you're right, dicky. i gotta do it for kiss. gotta put a bag over its head and do it for kiss.
speaker2: wow. i feel a hundred times better!
speaker2: thanks lady.
speaker2: maestro? as you were.
speaker2: come on, dude, we got a bunch of frisky felines waiting for some

speaker1: two hundred bucks? 
speaker2: you heard me, nad breath. my time's precious and i think that's a reasonable price to pay for your sorry life.
speaker1: look, i want to live, but i don't know where the i'm gonna find two hundred bucks.
speaker2: chongo? take him outside and tear his out through his mouth.
speaker1: hold on! i know how i can get the money! i just figured it out! only you might wanna wait outside. the little kid and chongo look at each other.
speaker3: i don't trust him.
speaker2: i think he's on the level. he's too stupid to try anything sneaky anyway. look at him, he's a moron.
speaker2: you got fifteen minutes and not a second longer. we have a concert to go to. see you outside.

speaker1: boy, this one's heavy. 
speaker1: 

speaker1: so, you see if it wasn't for me, me and my friends would be at that kiss concert right now... together. 
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, this is a unique confession to say the least, son. and not exactly the most interesting one i've ever heard either. you sure you don't want to talk about... oh, carnal knowledge with a neighborhood girl or impure thoughts about the new student teacher maybe... or how about finding a box of magazines under your dad's bed?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: well then, i suggest you have a seat on the bench behind you and think of something a little juicier to confess than losing kiss tickets. i realize this is detroit, but i personally find, what that rock and roll band is all about, to be boring as lucifer's kingdom. i'll return in a little while.
speaker1: beth? i can't believe it.
speaker3: believe it.
speaker1: are you waiting for confession? i thought you were jewish?
speaker3: i have a confession. here it is.
speaker3: i didn't mean for that to be so... intense. forgive me.
speaker1: i don't care. i wanna hear more.
speaker3: i've loved you ever since i first laid eyes on you, jeremiah. i've just always been too scared to show it.
speaker1: beth, i can't believe you just said that because that's exactly how i've always felt about you... call me jam. it's my band name.
speaker3: you don't know how long i've been waiting to hear that... jam!
speaker3: we've got to take this slow...
speaker1: right, slow...
speaker3: oh, screw it!

speaker1: okay, ladies, it's down to... troy the human jackhammer... the women applaud as we... 
speaker1: ...and mr. massive head wound accompanied by an upset stomach-hawk!
speaker1: no contest. the grand prize of seventy- five dollars goes to troy the human jackhammer!
speaker2: thanks, miss.
speaker3: you're too kind. i'm amanda.
speaker2: right, well, thanks for the drinks and stuff, amanda, but there's no reason for me to stick around these parts anymore.
speaker3: don't be so glum, hawk. the night's still young and filled with plenty of compensatory possibilities.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: i'd be in a position to spend some money on you if you'd get in a position and spend some time on me.

speaker1: where are you, son? 
speaker2: uhh, tying my shoe.
speaker1: oh. so, have you thought of a colorful confession yet?
speaker2: actually, yes. last year i walked out of a candy store with a reggie bar i hadn't paid for, but went back and apologized the next day.
speaker1: boooring. think, boy, think!

speaker1: i can't believe you're even thinking of committing a robbery, trip. you don't pass go and collect 200 dollars for pulling stuff like this. 
speaker2: no dude, is this really worth it? sure you get your kicked nine ways to sunday by that gorilla, but it's still a hundred times better than getting it porked for the next three to five.
speaker3: and what about that girl, trip? she'll never forget this night. even if you get away with it, she'll be scarred for life. when are you gonna realize sometimes being tough means being tender.
speaker4: alright, everybody, shut up!
speaker5: evening, honey. y'know what i am, what this is, and what you have to do, so do it quick. the rest of you kindly introduce yourselves to the floor and kiss it hello.
speaker5: do or die, next time i let the barrels do the talking.
speaker6: p-p-please, mister, i'm just a high school kid...
speaker5: school, that's what i say! i just went through the motions till i was old enough to drop out and i'm leaving here with at least two fifty the easy way. look where all that studying's gonna get you tonight. robbed at gunpoint and possibly shot in the head... for minimum wage!

speaker1: alright, drop it or i'll kick your ass! 
speaker2: oh, yeah! you and what army?
speaker1: the kiss army!

speaker1: this is real. this is not a dream! this is real! i've pierced the inner circle! 
speaker1: oh, they're in there!

speaker1: wake up, lex! wake up, man! this part's gotta be a nightmare! 
speaker1: if you ever get me outta this, i swear i will never again!

speaker1: so. is it true that gene simmons had a cow's tongue grafted onto his real one? y'know, to make it so long? 
speaker2: i dunno. i think he had the piece of skin under his tongue removed so he could stick it out farther. i'm not too up on gene trivia.
speaker1: your man is the drummer, peter criss, right?
speaker2: peter criss is my inspiration, man. if i paid a hundred bucks for a kiss show and all i saw was his solo, i'd consider it... money... hey, how'd you know that?
speaker1: i have all your notebook doodles memorized, jam... here.
speaker2: ann arbor?
speaker1: my dad's company is relocating him. we're moving. that's why i was acting so freaky in school today. i thought it was the last time i'd ever see you. anyway, open the box. i would have given it to you this morning, except... like i said, i was freaking out.
speaker1: i pass by this really cool tee-shirt shop on my way to school every day and i know you wear those black tee- shirts all the time. you look like a size thirty-five, but all the sizes were in roman numerals. so i got you an xxxl. that's thirty-five, isn't it?
speaker3: okay, you better have something really sinful for me this time, son. my patience is worn to threads and your mom will be here any minute.
speaker2: alright, father, here it is. about two weeks ago i went to my cousin's wedding and one of the bridesmaids asked me if i wanted to take a bath.
speaker3: no...
speaker2: i was insulted, so i asked her if i was wreaking some wicked b.o., right? then she said no, she wanted to take a bath with me.
speaker3: oh, this is terrible... please go on.
speaker2: well, she was a very tempting siren, father. built like you wouldn't believe. so i gave into temptation about a block away from the wedding reception at this little motel that charges by the hour.
speaker3: well? continue! continue!
speaker2: okay... when she peeled off that gown, you'll never guess what she was wearing underneath.
speaker3: was it a teddy?
speaker2: no. much bet... i mean, much more sinful than that.
speaker3: a bustier?
speaker2: tell you what. you keep guessing and i'll say something when you get it.
speaker3: splendid! i love a good game of name that nightie.

speaker1: okay, okay, you're off. i can see this. so... maybe what we need... ah-ha. 
speaker1: play some frisbee, poochies?
speaker1: alright! i give up! i hearby and forthwith defer my destiny to you mutts. i may be an intelligent, upright, walking, homo-fucking sapien, but you fleabags are a force of nature. so, i'm just gonna sit here and wait for you to decide. if you let me live, i thank you. if you bite my head off, i'll die knowing i did all i could. it's up to you. lex waits before the growling, snapping canines. suddenly, the basset hound runs up in front of the pack and drops the frisbee at lex's feet. lex looks down at the floppy, wrinkly dog, who wags its tail and pants furiously.
speaker1: well, how do you like that?
speaker1: whoa! whoa!

speaker1: so, i jump into the car, hot-wire it in thirty seconds and start driving. then, suddenly i hear this scream. the disco queen was asleep in the back seat. 
speaker1: you think it's funny? how would you like to have a stiletto heel smacking you in the temple when you're tryin' to work?
speaker1: you about done splittin' a gut there? we gotta get these parts to toledo by nine.
speaker2: then maybe you guys'll let me go, huh?
speaker2: come on, whadaya say? you scratch my back, i scratch yours. you let me go, and in return, i keep my big mouth shut about your little operation here. mum, know what i mean?
speaker3: you're lucky you're still alive, wench. if you was a guy, we woulda thought nothin' of sawing your head off with a butter knife.
speaker1: what are we gonna do with her anyway?
speaker3: i dunno, but she sure looks fun. beefy jerk 1 touches the bandage on his head.
speaker1: yeah, and payback's a

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker1: what the is that?
speaker2: gin.
speaker1: whoa. some of this hard liquor's a tad too manly for me. i'm a brewski man myself.
speaker2: better ease up then, hawk. wouldn't want to give you whiskey would we?
speaker1: who's whiskey dick?
speaker2: well. obviously no one you have to worry about... woody.
speaker1: my name's not woody, it's haw-haw...
speaker1: ...holy
speaker2: but you do know premature peter, don't you? shame, i just bought these stockings.
speaker1: well, amanda, this has been quite a night. so far you've seen me and my throw up. what's next? projectile diarrhea? man. what a stud, huh?
speaker2: believe it or not, you still have a way to go before you start competing with my soon-to-be-ex-husband... the champion of lousy lovemaking. the man who thinks he's the biggest and the best... the man who thinks every secretary, stewardess, and cocktail waitress he should lick his feet for the honor. the man for whom faking it was invented. christ, if i hadn't gotten pregnant with our son, i would have never known i even had with the prick.
speaker1: you love him?
speaker2: i just told you, he's a big, hairy...
speaker1: no, i mean... you love your son?
speaker2: more than anything in the world.
speaker1: and he loves you back, doesn't he?
speaker2: he's a little spoiled, but i know he does.
speaker1: well, shame on him if he doesn't.
speaker2: you're sweet.
speaker1: my mom died of a heart attack while she was having me. man, i wish i had known her for even one day. if they ever invent a time machine, that's what i'm doing. going back in time to meet my mom. i'm gonna say, "mrs. pitchford?... or miss williams, depending on when i show up. you don't know me, but i'm your kid from the future. just wanted to thank you for the blue eyes, pug nose and for tying the knot with a guy who didn't mind diaper detail... oh, and, uh... cut down on the red meat, will ya?" amanda caresses hawk's cheek. he turns with her hand and

speaker1: gimme your gun, boy! 
speaker2: no, you gimme your gun, boy!
speaker1: don't tempt me, i'll shoot!
speaker2: not if i shoot first!
speaker1: i don't even think you have a gun!
speaker2: neither do i!
speaker1: now, for the last time, take the piece out and lay back down or your mom's gonna need the white tornado to get the brains outta your ski cap.
speaker2: smile, you sonofa...
speaker3: thank you! thank you!... who are you?
speaker2: call me... dr. love!

speaker1: you guys better kill me before you do what you're thinking of doing. cause when i'm mad enough, i can bite down very hard. 
speaker2: sweet polly purebred's got some spunk, huh?
speaker3: i'll give her some alright.
speaker2: we stripped that beemer in fifteen minutes. bet we can strip her in fifteen seconds.
speaker1: now wait a minute, guys! two against one ain't fair. lemme go back and get my friend barbara. you'd love her. the size of your head. you'll feel like a little baby sucking on 'em. i swear, i'll bring her right back. it'll be a four-way... you guys like disco? i teach disco dancing at my church. you guys look like you got rhythm in your blood. come on, free lessons if you let me go.
speaker2: i know a dance we can do. the horizontal hustle.
speaker2: who's there?
speaker4: i'm here for the girl and the car. you can try to stop me, but i must warn you, it may be hazardous to your health.
speaker2: too bad. he was such a young
speaker3: ehhh. he was a stupid boy. he deserved to die.
speaker4: listen to them. children of the night. what music they make... hounds of hell? say hello to dinner!
speaker4: one foot out of that office and your are alpo!
speaker1: wow! thank you! you're cooler than the fonz.
speaker4: aaaayyyyy!
speaker2: hey, what about the dogs?
speaker4: you got a phone in there?
speaker4: call the cops.

speaker1: ann arbor isn't... that far from cleveland, right? 
speaker2: nah. once i get my own wheels, i could come up all the time.
speaker1: that'd be great. hey, maybe someday your band'll play there. it's a college town, you know?
speaker2: i feel like such an why didn't i just say something a year and a half ago? man, think of how much time we wasted.
speaker1: let's not think about the past. let's just think about from today on. i'll never forget you, jam.
speaker2: tell me about it. church will never be the same again.

speaker1: coming dad. i'll call you. soon as we get a phone. bye. 
speaker2: bye.

speaker1: amanda, as ironic as this is gonna sound, i can't take any money for... i'm no midnight cowboy, y'know. it would only cheapen the whole deal for me. 
speaker2: i'm not paying you for the lovemaking, hawk. i just want you to have whatever you needed the money for when you took me up on my offer.
speaker1: ...thanks.
speaker2: you're a good man, hawk. thank you.

speaker1: you wouldn't happen to know where we could find this... dr. love, would you? 
speaker2: it's company policy to hand over a cash reward of a hundred and fifty dollars to anyone who stops a robbery. i gave him the money and he took off.
speaker3: okay, well, thanks anyway. and let us know if you happen to see him again. we'd like to ask him some questions.
speaker2: if i see dr. love any time soon, you're gonna have to wait till i'm done with him first.

speaker1: ...hundred forty, hundred fifty. that's all i got. 
speaker2: tsk. tsk. tsk. i really wanted things to work out for you, my weasly, dim- witted friend. you got spunk. chongo, give him a fifty dollar wallop.
speaker1: oh, no... please, look. i...
speaker3: hey, the jerkoff's got drugs.
speaker2: consider it a bonus, chongo.

speaker1: this oughta be enough to get you to disco inferno, christine. 
speaker2: come with. it's not too late for you to catch the fever.
speaker1: no can do. but i made a promise to get you to that disco, and we kiss maniacs are men of our word. besides... you're pretty cool... for a stella, i mean.
speaker2: here's my number. tell me how cool i am over the phone sometime. okay?
speaker2: disco inferno, on the double.

speaker1: i'm gonna ask you nicely first. mom, can i have my drumsticks back? 
speaker1: again, can i have my drumsticks?

speaker1: drumsticks are the least of your worries, young man. you are in a world of... 
speaker2: i know, mom, i've been in trouble for about twelve hours now! hellooooo!?
speaker2: i'm gonna be spending the next two years of my life at st. bernard's boarding school, remember?! i'm gonna be outta your hair till i'm a legal adult, remember?! that way, all you have to do is go to church, light a candle, pray to a little statue for me, and voila! all is forgiven and forgotten, right mom?!! then, you can spend your days in guilt-free pursuit of more constructive activities like telling everybody else how screwed up their lives are! that way you no longer need the patience and understanding required to communicate on some normal level with your own child!!! and that way you don't even have to think about how tough it was for you when you were growing up, and it's a good thing too. cause if you did, you'd realize what a lousy, goddamn, shitty-

speaker1: jeremiah... what's gotten into you? 
speaker2: i just lost my virginity in a confessional booth! lord have mercy!!
speaker2: for the last time, mom. let me have my drumsticks. please.

speaker1: whoa! whoa! whoa! that better not be the last ticket! i hope you have another one for me! 
speaker1: me!
speaker1: any luck?
speaker2: plenty, but it was all bad.
speaker3: i found the volvo.
speaker1: tickets?
speaker1: well, dudes, the only way we're gonna see kiss this tour is by some miracle.
speaker4: how dare you sneak out of the house like that! you had me worried to death! don't you know this is detroit! and for a degenerate band like kiss! they're sick, sick, sick and oughta be in jail with their vile antics!
speaker4: just wait until your father gets ahold of you!
speaker3: no... you don't think...?
speaker1: nah. couldn't be.
speaker5: it's a miracle! a miracle!

speaker1: whose laughing now?! whose laughing now, ya little shits?! i told ya... over my dead body! ha-ha-haaa! 
speaker2: take it easy, elvis. don't do anything crazy. just give me the tickets before someone gets hurt.
speaker3: hey, wait a minute! this ain't school property! he's not the boss of us here!
speaker1: that's right. this ain't school. it's not about school anymore. now it's personal.
speaker4: come on, elvis. we was only kiddin'. it's all in good fun. we run, you chase. cat and mouse. you know.
speaker1: boys, this time... i win!
speaker5: well... i still got my idea if anybody will let me speak.
speaker2: go ahead, jam.
speaker5: we all beat each other up, then, once we're nice and bruised, we run over to the ticket takers and say we got mugged and our tickets were stolen. they gotta let us in then.

speaker1: dude, you gotta let us in! four muggers just stole our tickets! 
speaker2: you expect us to believe that?
speaker3: look at us!
speaker4: it was those assholes! they even stole my wallet!
speaker4: inside that you'll find my kiss army picture i.d. and a hundred fifty bucks cash.
speaker4: tsk. tsk. tsk. i was really hoping things would work out for you, my weasly, midget friend. you got spunk. the little kid for once is speechless. then the ticket taker extends his arm in slow motion into cobo hall as if to say "entrez vous." the four friends pause.
speaker3: this is it!

