speaker1: oh god...oh god...oh 
speaker1: oh god...that's sooo good...you're the best...the best i ever had...

speaker1: it was very bitter. she said she was glad i knew, that she hated all the sneaking around. she said she wanted a divorce in reno. 
speaker2: what was your response?
speaker1: i told her i would not grant one.
speaker2: i'll see you in before i see you in reno. those were the words you used, mr. dufresne, according to the testimony of your neighbors.
speaker1: if they say so. i really don't remember. i was upset.

speaker1: what happened after you and your wife argued? 
speaker2: she packed a bag and went to stay with mr. quentin.
speaker1: glenn quentin. the golf pro at the falmouth hills country club. the man you had recently discovered was her lover. did you follow her?
speaker2: i went to a few bars first. later, i decided to drive to mr. quentin's home and confront them. they weren't there...so i parked my car in the turnout...and waited.
speaker1: with what intention?
speaker2: i'm not sure. i was confused. drunk. i think mostly i wanted to scare them.
speaker1: you had a gun with you?
speaker2: yes. i did.

speaker1: when they arrived, you went up to the house and murdered them? 
speaker2: no. i was sobering up. i realized she wasn't worth it. i decided to let her have her quickie divorce.
speaker1: quickie divorce indeed. a .38 caliber divorce, wrapped in a handtowel to muffle the shots, isn't that what you mean? and then you shot her lover!
speaker2: i did not. i got back in the car and drove home to sleep it off. along the way, i stopped and threw my gun into the royal river. i feel i've been very clear on this point.
speaker1: yes, you have. where i get hazy, though, is the part where the cleaning woman shows up the next morning and finds your wife and her lover in bed, riddled with .38 caliber bullets. does that strike you as a fantastic coincidence, mr. dufresne, or is it just me?
speaker2: yes. it does.
speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. dufresne, i don't think the jury heard that.
speaker2: yes. it does.
speaker1: does what?
speaker2: strike me as a fantastic coincidence.
speaker1: on that, sir, we are in accord...

speaker1: you claim you threw your gun into the royal river before the murders took place. that's rather convenient. 
speaker2: it's the truth.
speaker1: you recall lt. mincher's testimony? he and his men dragged that river for three days and nary a gun was found. so no comparison can be made between your gun and the bullets taken from the bloodstained corpses of the victims. that's also rather convenient, isn't it, mr. dufresne?
speaker2: since i am innocent of this crime, sir, i find it decidedly inconvenient the gun was never found.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, you've heard all the evidence, you know all the facts. we have the accused at the scene of the crime. we have foot prints. tire tracks. bullets scattered on the ground which bear his fingerprints. a broken bourbon bottle, likewise with fingerprints. most of all, we have a beautiful young woman and her lover lying dead in each other's arms. they had sinned. but was their crime so great as to merit a death sentence? 
speaker1: i suspect mr. dufresne's answer to that would be yes. i further suspect he carried out that sentence on the night of september 21st, this year of our lord, 1946, by pumping four bullets into his wife and another four into glenn quentin. and while you think about that, think about this...
speaker1: a revolver holds six bullets, not eight. i submit to you this was not a hot-blooded crime of passion! that could at least be understood, if not condoned. no, this was revenge of a much more brutal and cold-blooded nature. consider! four bullets per victim! not six shots fired, but eight! that means he fired the gun empty...and then stopped to reload so he could shoot each of them again! an extra bullet per lover...right in the head. i'm done talking. you people are all decent, god-fearing christian folk. you know what to do.

speaker1: sit. 
speaker2: we see by your file you've served twenty years of a life sentence.
speaker3: you feel you've been rehabilitated?
speaker4: yes, sir. absolutely. i've learned my lesson. i can honestly say i'm a changed man. i'm no longer a danger to society. that's the honest truth. no doubt about it.

speaker1: there's a con like me in every prison in america, i guess. i'm the guy who can get it for you. cigarettes, a bag of reefer if you're partial, a bottle of brandy to celebrate your kid's high school graduation. near anything, within reason. 
speaker1: yes sir, i'm a regular sears and roebuck.
speaker1: so when andy dufresne came to me in 1949 and asked me to smuggle rita hayworth into the prison for him, i told him no problem. and it wasn't.
speaker2: fresh fish! fresh fish today!

speaker1: andy came to shawshank prison in early 1947 for murdering his wife and the fella she was bangin'. 
speaker1: on the outside, he'd been vice- president of a large portland bank. good work for a man as young as he was, when you consider how conservative banks were back then.
speaker2: all clear!
speaker3: on your feet before i you up so bad you never walk again.

speaker1: there they are, boys. the human charm bracelet. 
speaker2: never seen such a sorry-lookin' heap of maggot in my life.
speaker3: comin' from you, heywood, you being so pretty and all...
speaker4: takin' bets today, red?
speaker1: bear catholic? pope in the woods? smokes or coin, bettor's choice.
speaker4: smokes. put me down for two.
speaker1: high roller. who's your horse?
speaker4: that gangly sack of third from the front. he'll be the first.
speaker2: i'll take that action.
speaker5: me too.
speaker2: you're out some smokes, son. take my word.
speaker4: you're so smart, you call it.
speaker2: i say that chubby fat-ass...let's see...fifth from the front. put me down for a quarter deck.
speaker1: that's five cigarettes on fat-ass. any takers?
speaker1: i must admit i didn't think much of andy first time i laid eyes on him. he might'a been important on the outside, but in here he was just a little in prison grays. looked like a stiff breeze could blow him over. that was my first impression of the man.
speaker6: what say, red?
speaker1: little fella on the end. definitely. i stake half a pack. any takers?
speaker7: rich bet.
speaker1: c'mon, boys, who's gonna prove me wrong? floyd, skeet, joe, heywood. four brave souls, ten smokes apiece. that's it, gentlemen, this window's closed.

speaker1: eyes front. 
speaker2: this is mr. hadley, captain of the guard. i am mr. norton, the warden. you are sinners and scum, that's why they sent you to me. rule number one: no blaspheming. i'll not have the lord's name taken in vain in my prison. the other rules you'll figure out as you go along. any questions?
speaker3: when do we eat?

speaker1: any other questions? i believe in two things. discipline and the bible. here, you'll receive both. put your faith in the lord. your belongs to me. welcome to shawshank. 
speaker2: off with them clothes! and i didn't say take all day doing it, did i?
speaker2: first man into the shower!
speaker2: delouse that piece of next man in!

speaker1: the first night's the toughest, no doubt about it. they march you in naked as the day you're born, fresh from a bible reading, skin burning and half-blind from that delousing they throw on you... 
speaker1: ...and when they put you in that cell, when those bars slam home, that's when you know it's for real. old life blown away in the blink of an eye...a long cold season in stretching out ahead...nothing left but all the time in the world to think about it.
speaker1: most new fish come close to madness the first night. somebody always breaks down crying. happens every time. the only question is, who's it gonna be?
speaker1: it's as good a thing to bet on as any, i guess. i had my money on andy dufresne...

speaker1: that's lights out! good night, ladies. 
speaker2: i remember my first night. seems a long time ago now.
speaker3: fishee fishee fisheeee...you're gonna like it here, new fish. a whooole lot...make you wish your daddies never dicked your mommies...you takin' this down, new fish? gonna be a quiz later. sshhh. keep it down. the screws'll hear...fishee fishee fisheeee...
speaker2: the boys always go fishin' with first-timers...and they don't quit till they reel someone in.

speaker1: fat-ass...oh, faaaat-ass. talk to me, boy. i know you're in there. i can hear you breathin'. now don't you listen to these nitwits, hear? 
speaker1: this ain't such a bad place. i'll introduce you around, make you feel right at home. i know some big ol' bull queers who'd love to make your acquaintance...especially that big white mushy of yours...

speaker1: i had your mother! she wasn't that great! 
speaker2: what the christ is this happy
speaker1: he took the lord's name in vain! i'm tellin' the warden!
speaker2: you'll be tellin' him with my baton up your ass!
speaker2: what's your malfunction you fat barrel of monkey-spunk?

speaker1: i ain't gonna count to three! not even to one! now shut the up 'fore i sing you a lullabye! 
speaker1: get this tub of down to the infirmary. if i hear so much as a mouse fart in here the rest of the night, by and sonny you'll all visit the infirmary. every last here.

speaker1: you gonna eat that? 
speaker2: hadn't planned on it.
speaker1: you mind?
speaker1: mmm. nice and ripe.
speaker1: jake says thanks. fell out of his nest over by the plate shop. i'm lookin' after him till he's old enough to fly.
speaker3: oh, christ, here he comes.
speaker4: mornin', boys. it's a fine mornin'. you know why it's fine?
speaker4: that's right, send 'em all down. i wanna see 'em lined up in a row, pretty as a chorus line.
speaker5: smell my ass...
speaker4: gee, red. terrible shame, your horse comin' in last and all. hell, i sure do love that horse of mine. i believe i owe that boy a big sloppy kiss when i see him.
speaker6: give him some'a your cigarettes instead, cheap bastard.
speaker4: say tyrell, you pull infirmary duty this week? how's that winnin' horse of mine, anyway?
speaker7: dead. hadley busted his head pretty good. doc already went home for the night. poor lay there till this morning. by then... he shakes his head, turns back to his food. the silence mounts. heywood glances around. men resume eating. softly:
speaker2: what was his name?
speaker4: what? what'd you say?
speaker2: i was wondering if anyone knew his name.
speaker4: what the you care, new fish? doesn't matter what his name was. he's dead.

speaker1: you're some sweet punk. you been broke in yet? 
speaker1: hard to get. i like that.

speaker1: hello. i'm andy dufresne. 
speaker2: the wife-killin' banker.
speaker1: how do you know that?
speaker2: i keep my ear to the ground. why'd you do it?
speaker1: i didn't, since you ask.
speaker2: hell, you'll fit right in, then. everyone's innocent in here, don't you know that? heywood! what are you in for, boy?
speaker3: didn't do it! lawyer me!
speaker1: what else have you heard?
speaker2: people say you're a cold fish. they say you think your smells sweeter than ordinary. that true?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: ain't made up my mind yet.
speaker1: i understand you're a man who knows how to get things.
speaker2: i'm known to locate certain things from time to time. they seem to fall into my hands. maybe it's 'cause i'm irish.
speaker1: i wonder if you could get me a rock-hammer?
speaker2: what is it and why?
speaker1: you make your customers' motives a part of your business?
speaker2: if you wanted a toothbrush, i wouldn't ask questions. i'd just quote a price. a toothbrush, see, is a non-lethal sort of object.
speaker1: fair enough. a rock-hammer is about eight or nine inches long. looks like a miniature pickaxe, with a small sharp pick on one end, and a blunt hammerhead on the other. it's for rocks.
speaker2: rocks.
speaker2: quartz?
speaker1: quartz, sure. and look. mica. shale. silted granite. there's some graded limestone, from when they cut this place out of the hill.
speaker2: so?
speaker1: i'm a rockhound. at least i was, in my old life. i'd like to be again, on a limited scale.
speaker2: yeah, that or maybe plant your toy in somebody's skull?
speaker1: i have no enemies here.
speaker2: no? just wait.
speaker2: word gets around. the sisters have taken a real shine to you, yes they have. especially bogs.
speaker1: tell me something. would it help if i explained to them i'm not homosexual?
speaker2: neither are they. you have to be human first. they don't qualify. bull queers take by force, that's all they want or understand. i'd grow eyes in the back of my head if i were you.
speaker1: thanks for the advice.
speaker2: that comes free. but you understand my concern.
speaker1: if there's trouble, i doubt a rock- hammer will do me any good.
speaker2: then i guess you wanna escape. tunnel under the wall maybe? i miss the joke. what's so funny?
speaker1: you'll know when you see the rock- hammer.
speaker2: what's this item usually go for?
speaker1: seven dollars in any rock and gem shop.
speaker2: my standard mark-up's twenty percent, but we're talkin' about a special object. risk goes up, price goes up. call it ten bucks even.
speaker1: ten it is.
speaker2: i'll see what i can do. but it's a waste of money.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: folks who run this place love surprise inspections. they turn a blind eye to some things, but not a gadget like that. they'll find it, and you'll lose it. mention my name, we'll never do business again. not for a pair of shoelaces or a stick of gum.
speaker1: i understand. thank you, mr...?
speaker2: red. the name's red.
speaker1: red. i'm andy. pleasure doing business with you.
speaker2: i could see why some of the boys took him for snobby. he had a quiet way about him, a walk and a talk that just wasn't normal around here. he strolled. like a man in a park without a care or worry. like he had on an invisible coat that would shield him from this place. yes, i think it would be fair to say i liked andy from the start.

speaker1: when they check you into this hotel, one of the bellhops bends you over and looks up your works, just to make sure you're not carrying anything. but a truly determined man can get an object quite a ways up there. 
speaker1: that's how andy joined our happy little shawshank family with more than five hundred dollars on his person. determination.

speaker1: dufresne. 
speaker2: middle shelf, wrapped in a towel.

speaker1: you get this in your eyes, it blinds you. 
speaker2: honey, hush.
speaker2: that's it, fight. better that way.
speaker3: i wish i could tell you that andy fought the good fight, and the sisters let him be. i wish i could tell you that, but prison is no fairy-tale world.
speaker3: he never said who did it...but we all knew.
speaker3: things went on like that for a while. prison life consists of routine, and then more routine.

speaker1: the sisters kept at him. sometimes he was able to fight them off... sometimes not. 
speaker1: he always fought, that's what i remember. he fought because he knew if he didn't fight, it would make it that much easier not to fight the next time.
speaker1: half the time it landed him in the infirmary...

speaker1: ...the other half, it landed him in solitary. warden norton's "grain and drain" vacation. bread, water, and all the privacy you could want. 
speaker1: and that's how it went for andy. that was his routine. i do believe those first two years were the worst for him. and i also believe if things had gone on that way, this place would have got the best of him. but then, in the spring of 1949, the powers-that-be decided that...

speaker1: ...the roof of the license-plate factory needs resurfacing. i need a dozen volunteers for a week's work. we're gonna be taking names in this steel bucket here... 
speaker2: it was outdoor detail, and may is one fine month to be workin' outdoors.

speaker1: wouldn't you know it? me and some fellas i know were among the names called. 
speaker1: only cost us a pack of smokes per man. i made my usual twenty percent, of course.

speaker1: ...so this lawyer calls long distance from texas, and he says, byron hadley? i say, yeah. he says, sorry to inform you, but your brother just died. 
speaker2: damn, byron. sorry to hear that.
speaker1: i ain't. he was an run off years ago, family ain't heard of him since. figured him for dead anyway. so this lawyer says, your brother died a rich man. oil wells and close to a million bucks. it's frigging incredible how lucky some can get.
speaker3: a million bucks? jeez-louise! you get any of that?
speaker1: thirty five thousand. that's what he left me.
speaker3: dollars? holy that's great! like winnin' a lottery... ...ain't it?
speaker1: dumbshit. what do you figger the government's gonna do to me? take a big wet bite out of my ass, is what.
speaker3: oh. hadn't thought of that.
speaker1: maybe leave me enough to buy a new car with. then what happens? you pay tax on the car. repairs and maintenance. kids pesterin' you to take 'em for a ride...
speaker4: and drive it, if they're old enough.
speaker1: that's right, wanting to drive it, wanting to learn on it, f'chrissake! then at the end of the year, if you figured the tax wrong, they make you pay out of your own pocket. uncle sam puts his hand in your shirt and squeezes your till it's purple. always get the short end. that's a fact. some brother.
speaker5: poor byron. what terrible luck. imagine inheriting thirty five thousand dollars.
speaker6: crying shame. some folks got it awful bad.
speaker6: hey, you nuts? keep your eyes on your pail!
speaker6: andy! come back!
speaker7: what's he doing?
speaker8: gettin' himself killed.
speaker6: it...
speaker5: just keep spreadin' tar...
speaker9: mr. hadley. do you trust your wife?
speaker1: that's funny. you're gonna look funnier suckin' my with no teeth.
speaker9: what i mean is, do you think she'd go behind your back? try to hamstring you?
speaker1: that's it! step aside, mert. this fucker's havin' hisself an accident.
speaker5: oh he's gonna do it, he's gonna throw him off the roof...
speaker7: oh oh oh jesus...
speaker9: because if you do trust her, there's no reason in the world you can't keep every cent of that money.
speaker1: you better start making sense.
speaker9: if you want to keep that money, all of it, just give it to your wife. see, the irs allows you a one-time- only gift to your spouse. it's good up to sixty thousand dollars.
speaker1: naw, that ain't right! tax free?
speaker9: tax free. irs can't touch one cent.
speaker1: you're the smart banker what shot his wife. why should i believe a smart banker like you? so's i can wind up in here with you?
speaker9: it's perfectly legal. go ask the irs, they'll say the same thing. actually, i feel silly telling you all this. i'm sure you would have investigated the matter yourself.
speaker1: fuckin'-a. i don't need no smart wife-killin' banker to show me where the bear in the buckwheat.
speaker9: of course not. but you will need somebody to set up the tax-free gift, and that'll cost you. a lawyer, for example...
speaker1: ambulance-chaaing, highway-robbing
speaker9: ...or come to think of it, i suppose i could set it up for you. that would save you some money. i'll write down the forms you need, you can pick them up, and i'll prepare them for your signature... nearly free of charge. i'd only ask three beers apiece for my co-workers, if that seems fair.
speaker3: co-workers! get him! that's rich, ain't it? co-workers...
speaker9: i think a nan working outdoors feels more like a man if he can have a bottle of suds. that's only my opinion.
speaker1: what are you jimmies starin' at? back to work, it!

speaker1: and that's how it came to pass, that on the second-to-last day of the job, the convict crew that tarred the plate factory roof in the spring of '49... 
speaker1: ...wound up sitting in a row at ten o'clock in the morning, drinking icy cold black label beer courtesy of the hardest screw that ever walked a turn at shawshank state prison.
speaker2: drink up, boys. while it's cold.
speaker1: the colossal even managed to sound magnanimous.
speaker1: we sat and drank with the sun on our shoulders, and felt like free men. we could'a been tarring the roof of one of our own houses. we were the lords of all creation.
speaker1: as for andy, he spent that break hunkered in the shade, a strange little smile on his face, watching us drink his beer.
speaker3: here's a cold one, andy.
speaker4: no thanks. i gave up drinking.
speaker1: you could argue he'd done it to curry favor with the guards. or maybe make a few friends among us cons. me, i think he did it just to feel normal again...if only for a short while.
speaker1: king me.
speaker4: chess. now there's a game of kings. civilized...strategic...
speaker1: ...and totally inexplicable. hate that game.
speaker4: maybe you'll let me teach you someday. i've been thinking of getting a board together.
speaker1: you come to the right place. i'm the man who can get things.
speaker4: we might do business on a board. but the pieces, i'd like to carve those myself. one side done in quartz... the opposing side in limestone.
speaker1: that'd take you years.
speaker4: years i've got. what i don't have are the rocks. pickings here in the exercise yard are pretty slim.
speaker1: how's that rock-hammer workin' out anyway? scratch your name on your wall yet?
speaker4: not yet. i suppose i should.
speaker1: andy? i guess we're gettin' to be friends, ain't we?
speaker4: i suppose we are.
speaker1: i ask a question? why'd you do it?
speaker4: i'm innocent, remember? just like everybody else here.
speaker4: what are you in for, red?
speaker1: murder. same as you.
speaker4: innocent?
speaker1: the only guilty man in shawshank.

speaker1: here's the good part. bugs come out of the walls to get his ass. 
speaker2: i know. i've seen it three times this month already.
speaker2: can we talk business?
speaker1: sure. what do you want?
speaker2: rita hayworth. can you get her?
speaker1: no problem. take a few weeks.
speaker2: weeks?
speaker1: don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. relax. what are you so nervous about? she's just a woman.

speaker1: take a walk. 
speaker2: i have to change reels.
speaker1: i said off.
speaker3: i know. i've seen it three times this month already.
speaker3: can we talk business?
speaker4: sure. what do you want?
speaker3: rita hayworth. can you get her?
speaker4: no problem. take a few weeks.
speaker3: weeks?
speaker4: don't have her stuffed down my pants this very moment, sorry to say. relax. what are you so nervous about? she's just a woman.

speaker1: take a walk. 
speaker2: i have to change reels.
speaker1: i said off.
speaker1: ain't you gonna scream?
speaker3: they'd never hear me over that. let's get this over with.
speaker4: me first.
speaker3: okay.
speaker4: he broke my nose!
speaker1: now i'm gonna open my fly, and you're gonna swallow what i give you to swallow. and when you d mine, you gonna swallow rooster's. you done broke his nose, so he ought to have somethin' to show for it.
speaker3: anything you put in my mouth, you're going to lose.
speaker1: you don't understand. you do that, i'll put all eight inches of this steel ii your ear.
speaker3: okay. but you should know that sudden serious brain injury causes the victim to bite down. hard. in fact, i understand the bite-reflex is so strong the victim's jaws have to be pried open with a crowbar.
speaker1: you little
speaker5: bogs didn't put anything in andy's mouth, and neither did his friends. what they did do is beat him within an inch of his life...
speaker5: andy spent a month in traction.

speaker1: bogs spent a week in the hole. 
speaker2: time's up, bogs.

speaker1: damn, byron. look'a that. 
speaker2: poor fella must'a tripped.
speaker3: two things never happened again after that. the sisters never laid a finger on andy again...

speaker1: ...and bogs never walked again. they transferred him to a minimum security hospital upstate. to my knowledge, he lived out the rest of his days drinking his food through a straw. 
speaker1: i'm thinkin' andy could use a nice welcome back when he gets out of the infirmary.
speaker2: sounds good to us. figure we owe him for the beer.
speaker1: man likes to play chess. let's get him some rocks.

speaker1: that ain't quartz. nor limestone. 
speaker2: what are you, geologist?
speaker3: he's right, it ain't.
speaker2: what the is it then?
speaker4: horse apple.
speaker2: 
speaker4: no, horse petrified.
speaker4: despite a few hitches, the boys came through in fine style...

speaker1: ...and by the week andy was due back, we had enough rocks saved up to keep him busy till rapture. 
speaker1: also got a big shipment in that week. cigarettes, chewing gum, shoelaces, playing cards with naked ladies on 'em, you name it... ...and, of course, the most important item.

speaker1: heads up. they're tossin' cells. 
speaker2: what kind'a contraband you hiding in there, boy?
speaker3: solitary. a week. make sure he takes his bible.
speaker4: too dark to read down there.
speaker3: add another week for blasphemy. the man is taken away. norton's gaze goes up.
speaker3: let's try the second tier.

speaker1: good evening. 
speaker2: i'm pleased to see you reading this. any favorite passages?
speaker1: watch ye therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh.
speaker2: luke. chapter 13, verse 35. i've always liked that one. but i prefer: "i am the light of the world. he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life."
speaker1: john. chapter 8, verse 12.
speaker2: i hear you're good with numbers. how nice. a man should have a skill.
speaker3: you wanna explain this?
speaker1: it's called a rock blanket. it's for shaping and polishing rocks. little hobby of mine.
speaker3: looks pretty clean. some contraband here, nothing to get in a twist over.
speaker2: i can't say i approve of this... ...but i suppose exceptions can always be made.
speaker2: i almost forgot.
speaker2: i'd hate to deprive you of this. salvation lies within.
speaker4: tossin' cells was just an excuse. truth is, norton wanted to size andy up.

speaker1: my wife made that in church group. 
speaker2: it's very pretty, sir.
speaker1: you like working in the laundry?
speaker2: no, sir. not especially.
speaker1: perhaps we can find something more befitting a man of your education.

speaker1: hey, jake. where's brooks? 
speaker2: andy! thought i heard you out here!
speaker1: i've been reassigned to you.
speaker2: i know, they told me. ain't that a kick in the ass? come on in, i'll give you the dime tour.

speaker1: here she is, the shawshank prison library. along this side, we got the national geographics. that side, the reader's digest condensed books. bottom shelf there, some louis l'amours and erle stanley gardners. every night i pile the cart and make my rounds. i write down the names on this clipboard here. well, that's it. easy, peasy, japanesey. any questions? 
speaker2: brooks? how long have you been librarian?
speaker1: since 1912. yuh, over 37 years.
speaker2: in all that time, have you ever had an assistant?
speaker1: never needed one. not much to it, is there?
speaker2: so why now? why me?
speaker1: i dunno. be nice to have some comp'ny down here for a change.
speaker3: dufresne!
speaker3: that's him. that's the one.
speaker4: i'm dekins. i been, uh, thinkin' 'bout maybe settin' up some kinda trust fund for my kids' educations.
speaker2: i see. well. why don't we have a seat and talk it over?
speaker1: pull down one'a them desks there.
speaker2: what did you have in mind? a weekly draw on your pay?
speaker4: yuh. i figured just stick it in the bank, but captain hadley said check with you first.
speaker2: he was right. you don't want your money in a bank.
speaker4: i don't?
speaker2: what's that gonna earn you? two and a half, three percent a year? we can do a lot better than that. so tell me, mr. dekins. where do you want to send your kids? harvard? yale?

speaker1: he didn't say that! 
speaker2: is my witness. and dekins, he just blinks for a second, then laughs his off. afterward, he actually shook andy's hand.
speaker3: my ass!
speaker2: shook his hand. just about myself. all andy needed was a suit and tie, a jiggly little hula girl on his desk, he would'a been mister dufresne, if you please.
speaker4: makin' yourself some friends, andy.
speaker5: i wouldn't say "friends." i'm a convicted murderer who provides sound financial planning. that's a wonderful pet to have.
speaker4: got you out of the laundry, didn't it?
speaker5: maybe it can do more than that. how about expanding the library? get some new books in there.
speaker3: how you 'spect to do that, "mr. dufresne-if-you-please?"
speaker5: ask the warden for funds.
speaker2: son, i've had six wardens through here during my tenure, and i have learned one great immutable truth of the universe: ain't one of 'em been born whose don't pucker up tight as a snare drum when you ask for funds.
speaker6: not a dime. my budget's stretched thin as it is.
speaker5: i see. perhaps i could write to the state senate and request funds directly from them.
speaker6: far as them republican boys in augusta are concerned, there's only three ways to spend the taxpayer's hard-earned when it come to prisons. more walls. more bars. more guards.
speaker5: still, i'd like to try, with your permission. i'll send a letter a week. they can't ignore me forever.
speaker6: they sure can, but you write your letters if it makes you happy. i'll even mail 'em for you, how's that?
speaker4: so andy started writing a letter a week, just like he said.

speaker1: the following april, andy did tax returns for half the guards at shawshank. 
speaker1: year after that, he did them all... including the warden's.

speaker1: the guards on the opposing teams all remembered to bring their w-2's. 
speaker2: moresby prison issued you that gun, but you actually had to pay for it?
speaker3: right, and the holster too.
speaker2: see, that's all deductible. you get to write that off.
speaker1: yes sir, andy was a regular handr block. in fact, he got so busy at tax time, he was allowed a staff.
speaker2: say red, could you hand me a stack of those 1040s?
speaker1: got me out of the wood shop a month out of the year, and that was fine by me.

speaker1: c'mon, brooksie, why don't you just calm the down, okay? 
speaker2: miserable puke-eatin' sons of whores!
speaker3: what the hell's going on?
speaker4: you tell me, man. one second he was fine, then out came the knife. i better get the guards.
speaker3: no. we'll handle this. ain't that right, brooks? just settle down and we'll talk about it, okay?
speaker2: nothing left to talk about! it's all talked out! nothing left now but to cut his throat!
speaker3: why? what's heywood done to you?
speaker2: that's what they want! it's the price i gotta pay!
speaker5: brooks, you're not going to hurt heywood, we all know that. even heywood knows it, right heywood?
speaker6: sure. i know that. sure.
speaker5: why? ask anyone, they'll tell you. brooks hatlen is a reasonable man.
speaker3: yeah, that's right. that's what everybody says.
speaker5: you're not fooling anybody, so just put the knife down and stop scaring the out of people.
speaker2: but it's the only way they'll let me stay.
speaker5: take it easy. you'll be all right.
speaker6: him? what about me? crazy old fool! near slit my throat!
speaker3: you've had worse from shaving. what'd you do to set him off?
speaker6: nothin'! just came in to say fare-thee-well. ain't you heard? his parole came through!
speaker3: ain't that bad, old hoss. won't be long till you're squiring pretty young girls on your arm and telling 'em lies.

speaker1: i just don't understand what happened in there, that's all. 
speaker2: old man's crazy as a rat in a tin shithouse, is what.
speaker3: heywood, enough. ain't nothing wrong with brooksie. he's just institutionalized, that's all.
speaker2: institutionalized, my ass.
speaker3: man's been here fifty years. this place is all he knows. in here, he's an important man, an educated man. a librarian. out there, he's nothing but a used-up old con with arthritis in both hands. couldn't even get a library card if he applied. you see what i'm saying?
speaker4: red, i do believe you're talking out of your ass.
speaker3: believe what you want. these walls are funny. first you hate 'em, then you get used to 'em. after long enough, you get so you depend on 'em. that's "institutionalized."
speaker5: i could never get that way.
speaker6: say that when you been inside as long as brooks has.
speaker3: right. they send you here for life, and that's just what they take. part that counts, anyway.

speaker1: no music in your room after eight p.m. no guests after nine. no cooking except on the hotplate... 
speaker2: people even talk faster. and louder.

speaker1: make sure he double-bags. last time your man didn't double-bag and the bottom near came out. 
speaker2: you double-bag like the lady says, understand?
speaker3: yes sir, double-bag, surely will.
speaker3: it's hard work. i try to keep up, but my hands hurt most of the time. i don't think the store manager likes me very much.
speaker3: sometimes after work i go to the park and feed the birds. i keep thinking jake might show up and say hello, but he never does. i hope wherever he is, he's doing okay and making new friends.

speaker1: i don't like it here. i'm tired of being afraid all the time. i've decided not to stay. 
speaker1: i doubt they'll kick up any fuss. not for an old crook like me.

speaker1: p.s. tell heywood i'm sorry i put a knife to his throat. no hard feelings. 
speaker2: he should'a died in here, it.

speaker1: red! 
speaker2: is that jake?

speaker1: water break! five minutes! 
speaker2: that's real pretty, red. nice work.
speaker3: shovel man in. watch the dirt.
speaker4: heywood jumps in and starts spading out the hole.

speaker1: what is all this? 
speaker2: you tell me, fuck-stick! they're addressed to you, every one!
speaker3: well, take it.
speaker1: dear mr. dufresne. in response to your repeated inquiries, the state senate has allocated the enclosed funds for your library project... " this is two hundred dollars.
speaker1: in addition, the library district has generously responded with a charitable donation of used books and sundries. we trust this will fill your needs. we now consider the matter closed. please stop sending us letters. yours truly, the state comptroller's office.
speaker2: i want all this cleared out before the warden gets back, i you not.
speaker3: good for you, andy.
speaker1: only took six years. from now on, i send two letters a week instead of one.

speaker1: i have no idea to this day what them two italian ladies were singin' about. truth is, i don't want to know. some things are best left unsaid. i like to think they were singin' about something so beautiful it can't be expressed in words, and makes your heart ache because of it. 
speaker1: i tell you, those voices soared. higher and farther than anybody in a gray place dares to dream. it was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage and made these walls dissolve away...and for the briefest of moments -- every last man at shawshank felt free.

speaker1: couldn't play somethin' good, huh? hank williams? 
speaker2: they broke the door down before i could take requests.
speaker3: was it worth two weeks in the hole?
speaker2: easiest time i ever did.
speaker1: no such thing as easy time in the hole. a week seems like a year.
speaker2: i had mr. mozart to keep me company. hardly felt the time at all.
speaker4: oh, they let you tote that record player down there, huh? i could'a swore they confiscated that stuff.
speaker2: the music was here...and here. that's the one thing they can't confiscate, not ever. that's the beauty of it. haven't you ever felt that way about music, red?
speaker4: played a mean harmonica as a younger man. lost my taste for it. didn't make much sense on the inside.
speaker2: here's where it makes most sense. we need it so we don't forget.
speaker4: forget?
speaker2: that there are things in this world not carved out of gray stone. that there's a small place inside of us they can never lock away, and that place is called hope.
speaker4: hope is a dangerous thing. drive a man insane. it's got no place here. better get used to the idea.
speaker2: like brooks did?

speaker1: you feel you've been rehabilitated? 
speaker2: yes sir, without a doubt. i can say i'm a changed man. no danger to society, that's the honest truth. absolutely rehabilitated.
speaker3: a big rubber stamp slams down: "rejected."

speaker1: same old, same old. thirty years. when you say it like that... 
speaker2: you wonder where it went. i wonder where ten years went.
speaker2: anniversary gift. open it.
speaker2: had to go through one of your competitors. hope you don't mind. wanted it to be a surprise.
speaker1: it's very pretty, andy. thank you.
speaker2: you gonna play something?
speaker1: not today.

speaker1: andy was as good as his word. he kept writing to the state senate. two letters a week instead of one. 
speaker1: in 1959, the folks up augusta way finally clued in to the fact they couldn't buy him off with just a 200 dollar check. appropriations committee voted an annual payment of 500 dollars, just to shut him up.

speaker1: you'd be amazed how far andy could stretch it. he made deals with book clubs, charity groups...he bought remaindered books by the pound... 
speaker2: treasure island. robert louis...
speaker3: ...stevenson. next?
speaker1: i got here an auto repair manual, and a book on soap carving.
speaker3: trade skills and hobbies, those go under educational. stack right behind you.
speaker2: the count of monte crisco...
speaker4: cristo, you dumbshit.
speaker2: ...by alexandree dumb-ass.
speaker3: dumas. you boys'll like that one. it's about a prison break.
speaker1: maybe that should go under educational too.

speaker1: that was also the year warden norton instituted his famous "inside-out" program. you may remember reading about it. it made all the papers and got his picture in life magazine. 
speaker2: ...a genuine, progressive advance in corrections and rehabilitation. our inmates, properly supervised, will be put to work outside these walls performing all manner of public service. cutting pulpwood, repairing bridges and causeways, digging storm drains...
speaker2: these men can learn the value of an honest day's labor while providing a valuable service to the community -- and at a bare minimum of expense to mr. and mrs. john q. taxpayer!
speaker3: sounds like road-gangin', you ask me.
speaker1: nobody asked you.

speaker1: you there! you men! we're gonna take your picture now! 
speaker2: give us a break, lady.
speaker1: don't you know who i am? i'm from life magazine! i was told i'd get some co-operation out here! you want me to report you to your warden? is that what you want?
speaker2: no, ma'am.
speaker1: that's more like it! now i want you all in a row with big bright smiles on your faces! grab hold of your tools and show 'em to me!
speaker2: you heard the lady.
speaker2: c'mon! we're showin' our tools and grinnin' like fools! take the picture!
speaker3: none of the inmates were invited to express their views...

speaker1: 'course, norton failed to mention to the press that "bare minimum of expense" is a fairly loose term. there are a hundred different ways to skim off the top. men, materials, you name it. and, oh my lord, how the money rolled in... 
speaker2: this keeps up, you're gonna put me out of business! with this pool of slave labor you got, you can underbid any contractor in town.
speaker3: ned, we're providing a valuable community service.
speaker2: that's fine for the papers, but i got a family to feed. the state don't pay my salary. sam, we go back a long way. i need this new highway contract. i don't get it, i go under. that's a fact. now you just have some'a this fine pie my missus baked specially for you, and you think about that.
speaker3: ned, i wouldn't worry too much over this contract. seems to me i've already got my boys committed elsewhere. you be sure and thank maisie for this fine pie.
speaker1: and behind every shady deal, behind every dollar earned...
speaker1: ...there was andy, keeping the books.
speaker4: two deposits, casco bank and new england first. night drop, like always.
speaker3: get my stuff down t'laundry. two suits for dry-clean and a bag of whatnot. tell 'em if they over- starch my shirts again, they're gonna hear about it from me. how do i look?
speaker4: very nice.
speaker3: big charity to-do up portland way. governor's gonna be there. want the rest of that? woman can't bake worth

speaker1: got his fingers in a lot of pies, from what i hear. 
speaker2: what you hear isn't half of it. he's got scams you haven't dreamed of. kickbacks on his kickbacks. there's a river of dirty money flowing through this place.
speaker1: money like that can be a problem. sooner or later you gotta explain where it came from.
speaker2: that's where i come in. i channel it, funnel it, filter it...stocks, securities, tax free municipals... i send that money out into the big world. and when it comes back...
speaker1: it's clean as a virgin's whistle?
speaker2: cleaner. by the time norton retires, i will have made him a millionaire.
speaker1: they ever catch on, he's gonna wind up wearing a number himself.
speaker2: i thought you had more faith in me than that.
speaker1: i'm sure you're good, but all that paper leaves a trail. anybody gets too curious -- fbi, irs, whatever -- that trail's gonna lead to somebody.
speaker2: sure it will. but not to me, and certainly not to the warden.
speaker1: who then?
speaker2: peter stevens.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: the silent, silent partner. he's the guilty one, your honor. the man with the bank accounts. that's where the filtering process starts. they trace it back, all they're gonna find is him.
speaker1: yeah, okay, but who the is he?
speaker2: a phantom. an apparition. second cousin to harvey the rabbit. i conjured him out of thin air. he doesn't exist...except on paper.
speaker1: you can't just make a person up.
speaker2: sure you can, if you know how the system works, and where the cracks are. it's amazing what you can accomplish by mail. mr. stevens has a birth certificate, social security card, driver's license. they ever track those accounts, they'll wind up chasing a figment of my imagination.
speaker1: did i say you were good? you're rembrandt.
speaker2: it's funny. on the outside, i was an honest man. straight as an arrow. i had to come to prison to be a crook.

speaker1: does it ever bother you? 
speaker2: i don't run the scams, red, i just process the profits. that's a fine line, maybe. but i've also built that library, and used it to help a dozen guys get their high school diplomas. why do you think the warden lets me do all that?
speaker1: to keep you happy and doing the laundry. money instead of sheets.
speaker2: i work cheap. that's the trade-off.

speaker1: young punk, mr. rock n' roll, cocky as hell... 
speaker2: c'mon there, old boys! movin' like molasses! makin' me look bad!
speaker1: we liked him immediately.
speaker2: ...so i'm backin' out the door, right? had the tv like this... big ol' thing. couldn't see suddenly, here's this voice: freeze kid! hands in the air! well i just stand there holdin' on to that tv, so the voice says: "you hear what i said, boy?" and i say, yes sir, i sure did! but if i drop this thing, you got me on destruction of property too!

speaker1: you did a stretch in cashman too? 
speaker2: yeah. that was an easy ride, let me tell you. work programs, weekend furloughs. not like here.
speaker3: sounds like you done time all over new england.
speaker4: been in and out since i was 13. name the place, chances are i been there.
speaker5: perhaps it's time you considered a new profession. what i mean is, you don't seem to be a very good thief. maybe you should try something else.
speaker2: what the you know about it, capone? what are you in for?
speaker5: everyone's innocent in here. don't you know that?

speaker1: as it turns out, tommy had himself a young wife and new baby girl... 
speaker2: ...said we can stay with them, but joey's gettin' out of the service next month, and they barely got enough room as it is. plus they got poppa workin' double shifts and the baby cries half the night. i just don't know where we're gonna go...
speaker1: maybe it was the thought of them on the streets...or his child growing up not knowing her daddy...

speaker1: whatever it was, something lit a fire under that boy's ass. 
speaker2: i'm thinkin' maybe i should try for high school equivalency. hear you helped some fellas with that.
speaker3: i don't waste time on losers, tommy.
speaker4: i ain't no loser.
speaker3: that's a good start. if we do this, we do it all the way. one hundred percent. nothing half-assed.
speaker2: thing is, see... ...i don't read all that good.
speaker3: well. you've come to the right place then.
speaker3: ...and the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor...and my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor, shall be lifted nevermore! "
speaker2: so this raven just sits there and won't go away?
speaker3: that's right.
speaker2: why don't that fella get hisself a 12-gauge and dust the fucker?
speaker2: the cat sh--the cat shh... the cat shat on the welcome mat?
speaker1: so andy took tommy under his wing. started walking him through his abcs...

speaker1: after a while, you couldn't pry those books out of hands. 
speaker1: in gear, son! you're putting us behind!

speaker1: prison time is slow time. sometimes it feels like stop-time. so you do what you can to keep going... 
speaker1: some fellas collect stamps. others build matchstick houses. andy built a library. now he needed a new project. tommy was it. it was the same reason he spent years shaping and polishing those rocks. the same reason he hung his fantasy girlies on the wall...
speaker1: in prison, a man'll do most anything to keep his mind occupied.
speaker1: by 1966...right about the time tommy was getting ready to take his exams...it was lovely racquel.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: well. it's for wasted a whole year of my time with this
speaker1: may not be as bad as you think.
speaker2: it's worse! i didn't get a thing right! might as well be in chinese!
speaker1: we'll see how the score comes out.
speaker2: i'll tell you how the score comes out...
speaker2: two points! right there! there's your score! cats crawlin' up trees, 5 times 5 is 25, this place, it!
speaker2: i feel bad. i let him down.
speaker3: that's crap, son. he's proud of you. proud as a hen. we been friends a long time. i know him as good as anybody.
speaker2: smart fella, ain't he?
speaker3: smart as they come. used to be a banker on the outside.
speaker2: what's he in for anyway?
speaker3: murder.
speaker2: the you say.
speaker3: you wouldn't think, lookin' at him. caught his wife in bed with some golf pro. greased 'em both. c'mon, boy, back to work...
speaker2: oh my
speaker2: 'bout four years ago, i was in thomaston on a 2 to 3 stretch. stole a car. dumbfuck thing to do. few months left to go, i get a new cellmate in. elmo blatch. big twitchy crazy eyes. kind of roomie you pray you don't get, know what i'm sayin'? 6 to 12 for armed burglary. said he done hundreds of jobs. hard to believe, high-strung as he was. cut a loud fart, he'd go three feet in the air. talked all the time, too, that's the other thing. never shut up. places he'd been, jobs he pulled, women he even people he killed. people that gave him that's how he put it. one night, like a joke, i say: "yeah? who'd you kill?" so he says...
speaker4: ...i got me this job one time bussin' tables at a country club. so i could case all the big rich pricks that come in. i pick out this guy, go in one night and do his place. he wakes up and gives me so i killed him. him and the tasty he was with. that's the best part! she's this prick, see, this golf pro, but she's married to some other guy! some hotshot banker. he's the one they pinned it on! they got him down-maine somewhere doin' time for the crime! ain't that choice?

speaker1: well. i have to say, that's the most amazing story i ever heard. what amazes me most is you were taken in by it. 
speaker2: sir?
speaker1: it's obvious this fellow williams is impressed with you. he hears your tale of woe and quite naturally wants to cheer you up. he's young, not terribly bright. not surprising he didn't know what a state he'd put you in.
speaker2: i think he's telling the truth.
speaker1: let's say for a moment blatch does exist. you think he'd just fall to his knees and cry, "yes, i did it! i confess! by all means, please add a life term to my sentence!"
speaker2: it wouldn't matter. with tommy's testimony, i can get a new trial.
speaker1: that's assuming blatch is even still there. chances are excellent he'd be released by now. excellent.
speaker2: they'd have his last known address. names of relatives... well it's a chance. isn't it? how can you be so obtuse?
speaker1: what? what did you call me?
speaker2: obtuse! is it deliberate? the country club will have his old time cards! w-2s with his name on them!
speaker1: dufresne, if you want to indulge this fantasy, that's your business. don't make it mine. this meeting's over.
speaker2: look, if it's the squeeze, don't worry. i'd never say what goes on in here. i'd be just as indictable as you for laundering the money!
speaker1: don't you ever mention money to me again, you sorry son of a not in this office, not anywhere! get in here! now!
speaker2: i was just trying to rest your mind at ease, that's all.
speaker1: solitary! a month!
speaker2: what's the matter with you? it's my chance to get out, don't you see that? it's my life! don't you understand it's my life?

speaker1: a month in the hole. longest stretch i ever heard of. 
speaker2: it's my fault.
speaker3: like hell. you didn't pull the trigger, and you didn't convict him.
speaker4: red? you saying andy's innocent? i mean for real innocent? sweet how long's he been in here?
speaker3: since '47. going on nineteen years.
speaker5: thomas williams!
speaker3: board of education.
speaker2: the son of a mailed it.
speaker3: looks that way. you gonna open it or stick your thumb up your butt?
speaker2: thumb up my sounds better.
speaker2: c'mon, just throw it away. will you please? just throw it away?
speaker3: well,

speaker1: out here? 
speaker2: that's what the man said.
speaker1: warden?
speaker3: tommy, we've got a situation here. i think you can appreciate that.
speaker1: yes sir, i sure can.
speaker3: i tell you, son, this really came along and knocked my wind out. it's got me up nights, that's the truth.
speaker3: the right decision. sometimes it's hard to figure out what that is. you understand? think hard, tommy. if i'm gonna move on this, there can't be the least little shred of doubt. i have to know if you what you told dufresne was the truth.
speaker1: yes sir. absolutely.
speaker3: would you be willing to swear before a judge and jury...having placed your hand on the good book and taken an oath before almighty himself?
speaker1: just gimme that chance.
speaker3: that's what i thought.

speaker1: terrible thing. man that young, less than a year to go, trying to escape. broke captain hadley's heart to shoot him, truly it did. 
speaker2: i'm done. it stops right now. get handr block to declare your income.
speaker1: nothing stops! nothing! or you will do the hardest time there is. no more protection from the guards. i'll pull you out of that one-bunk hilton and put you in

speaker1: my wife used to say i'm a hard man to know. like a closed book. complained about it all the time. she was beautiful. i loved her. but i guess i couldn't show it enough. i killed her, red. 
speaker1: i didn't pull the trigger. but i drove her away. that's why she died. because of me, the way i am.
speaker2: that don't make you a murderer. bad husband, maybe.
speaker2: feel bad about it if you want. but you didn't pull the trigger.
speaker1: no. i didn't. someone else did, and i wound up here. bad luck, i guess.
speaker2: bad luck?
speaker1: it floats around. has to land on somebody. say a storm comes through. some folks sit in their living rooms and enjoy the rain. the house next door gets torn out of the ground and smashed flat. it was my turn, that's all. i was in the path of the tornado. i just had no idea the storm would go on as long as it has. think you'll ever get out of here?
speaker2: sure. when i got a long white beard and about three marbles left rolling around upstairs.
speaker1: tell you where i'd go. zihuatanejo.
speaker2: zihuatanejo?
speaker1: mexico. little place right on the pacific. you know what the mexicans say about the pacific? they say it has no memory. that's where i'd like to finish out my life, red. a warm place with no memory. open a little hotel right on the beach. buy some worthless old boat and fix it up like new. take my guests out charter fishing. you know, a place like that, i'd need a man who can get things.
speaker2: andy. i couldn't hack it on the outside. been in here too long. i'm an institutional man now. like old brooks hatlen was.
speaker1: you underestimate yourself.

speaker1: in here i'm the guy who can get it for you. out there, all you need are yellow pages. i wouldn't know where to begin. pacific ocean? hell. like to scare me to death, somethin' that big. 
speaker2: not me. i didn't shoot my wife and i didn't shoot her lover, and whatever mistakes i made i've paid for and then some. that hotel and that boat...i don't think it's too much to want. to look at the stars just after sunset. touch the sand. wade in the water. feel free.
speaker1: it, andy, stop! don't do that to yourself! talking pipedreams! mexico's down there, and you're in here, and that's the way it is!
speaker2: you're right. it's down there, and i'm in here. i guess it comes down to a simple choice, really. get busy living or get busy dying.
speaker1: andy?
speaker2: red, if you ever get out of here, do me a favor. there's this big hayfield up near buxton. you know where buxton is?
speaker1: lots of hayfields there.
speaker2: one in particular. got a long rock wall with a big oak at the north end. like something out of a robert frost poem. it's where i asked my
speaker2: andy wife to marry me. we'd gone for a picnic. we made love under that tree. i asked and she said yes. promise me, red. if you ever get out, find that spot. in the base of that wall you'll find a rock that has no earthly business in a maine hayfield. a piece of black volcanic glass. you'll find something buried under it i want you to have.
speaker1: what? what's buried there?
speaker2: you'll just have to pry up that rock and see.

speaker1: i tell you, the man was talkin' crazy. i'm worried, i truly am. 
speaker2: we ought to keep an eye on him.
speaker3: that's fine, during the day. but at night he's got that cell all to himself.
speaker4: oh lord. andy come down to the loading dock today. asked me for a length of rope. six foot long.
speaker5: you gave it to him?
speaker4: sure i did. i mean why wouldn't i?
speaker6: christ! remember brooks hatlen?
speaker4: how the was i s'pose to know?
speaker3: andy'd never do that. never.
speaker1: every man's got a breaking point.
speaker6: where the is he?
speaker4: probably still up in the warden's.

speaker1: christ. what do we do? 
speaker2: nothing we can do. not tonight.
speaker3: let's pull him aside tomorrow, all of us. have a word with him. ain't that right, red?
speaker4: yeah. sure. that's right.
speaker5: lickety-split. i wanna get home.
speaker6: just about done, sir.
speaker6: three deposits tonight.
speaker5: get my stuff down t'laundry. and shine my shoes. i want 'em lookin' like mirrors. nice havin' you back, andy. place just wasn't the same without you.

speaker1: open number twelve! 
speaker2: lights out!

speaker1: i have had some long nights in stir. alone in the dark with nothing but your thoughts, time can draw out like a blade... 
speaker1: that was the longest night of my life...

speaker1: man missing on tier two! cell 12! 
speaker2: dufresne? get your out here, boy! you're holding up the show! don't make me come down there now! i'll thump your skull for you!
speaker2: dufresne, dammit, you're putting me behind! you better be sick or dead in there, i you not!
speaker2: oh my holy

speaker1: i want every man on that cellblock questioned! start with that friend of his! 
speaker2: who?

speaker1: what do you mean "he just wasn't here?" don't say that to me, haig! don't say that to me again! 
speaker2: but sir! he wasn't! he isn't!
speaker1: i can see that, haig! you think i'm blind? is that what you're saying? am i blind, haig?
speaker2: no sir!
speaker1: what about you? you blind? tell me what this is!
speaker3: last night's count.
speaker1: you see dufresne's name? i sure do! right there, see? "dufresne." he was in his cell at lights out! stands to reason he'd still be here this morning! i want him found! not tomorrow, not after breakfast! now!
speaker1: well?
speaker4: well what?
speaker1: i see you two all the time, you're thick as thieves, you are! he must'a said something!
speaker4: no sir, he didn't!
speaker1: lord! it's a miracle! man up and vanished like a fart in the wind! nothin' left but some rocks on the windowsill and that cupcake on the wall! let's ask her! maybe she knows! what say there, fuzzy- britches? feel like talking? guess not. why should you be different?
speaker1: it's a conspiracy! that's what this is! it's one big conspiracy! and everyone's in on it! including her!

speaker1: they got this skinny kid named rory tremont to go in the hole. he wasn't much in the brains department, but he possessed the one most important qualification for the job... ...he was willing to go. 
speaker1: probably thought he'd win a bronze star or something.

speaker1: it was his third day on the job. 
speaker2: warden? there's a space here between the walls 'bout three feet across! smells pretty bad!
speaker3: i don't care what it smells like!
speaker4: go on, boy! we got a hold of you!
speaker2: hoo-whee! smell's gettin' worse!
speaker3: never mind, i said! just keep going!
speaker2: smells pretty bad, warden! in fact, it smells just like
speaker2: oh that's what it is, it's oh my it's pull me out 'fore i blow my groceries, oh it's oh my gawwwwwwd!

speaker1: and then came the unmistakable sound of rory tremont losing his last few meals. the whole cellblock heard it. i mean, it echoed. 
speaker1: i laughed myself right into solitary. two week stretch.

speaker1: it's it's oh my it's 
speaker1: andy once talked about doing easy time in the hole. now i knew what he meant.

speaker1: that and a big poster. 
speaker1: like i said. in prison, a man'll do most anything to keep his mind occupied.

speaker1: i guess after tommy was killed, andy decided he'd been here just about long enough. 
speaker2: lickety-split. i wanna get home.
speaker3: just about done, sir.

speaker1: ...a man nobody ever laid eyes on before strolled into the casco bank of portland. until that moment, he didn't exist -- except on paper. 
speaker2: may i help you?
speaker3: my name is peter stevens. i've come to close out some accounts.

speaker1: he had all the proper i.d. driver's license, birth certificate, social security card. the signature was a spot-on match. 
speaker2: i must say i'm sorry to be losing your business. i hope you'll enjoy living abroad.
speaker3: thank you. i'm sure i will.
speaker4: here's your cashier's check, sir. will there be anything else?
speaker3: please. would you add this to your outgoing mail?
speaker1: mr. stevens visited nearly a dozen banks in the portland area that morning. all told, he blew town with better than 370 thousand dollars of warden norton's money. severance pay for nineteen years.

speaker1: byron hadley? 
speaker1: you have the right to remain silent. if you give up that right, anything you say will be used against you in court...
speaker2: i wasn't there to see it, but i hear byron hadley was sobbing like a little girl when they took him away.

speaker1: those of us who knew him best talk about him often. i swear, the stuff he pulled. it always makes us laugh. 
speaker1: sometimes it makes me sad, though, andy being gone. i have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged, that's all. their feathers are just too bright...

speaker1: ...and when they fly away, the part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice...but still, the place you live is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. 
speaker1: i guess i just miss my friend.
speaker1: but there are times i curse him for the dreams he left behind...

speaker1: ...dreams where i am lost in a warm place with no memory. 
speaker1: an ocean so big it strikes me dumb. waves so quiet they strike me deaf. sunshine so bright it strikes me blind. it is a place that is blue beyond reason. bluer than can possibly exist. bluer than my mind can possibly grasp.

speaker1: your file says you've served forty years of a life sentence. you feel you've been rehabilitated? 
speaker1: shall i repeat the question?
speaker2: i heard you. rehabilitated. let's see now. you know, come to think of it, i have no idea what that means.
speaker3: well, it means you're ready to rejoin society as a--
speaker2: i know what you think it means. me, i think it's a made-up word, a poli- tician's word. a word so young fellas like you can wear a suit and tie and have a job. what do you really want to know? am i sorry for what i did?
speaker2: not a day goes by i don't feel regret, and not because i'm in here or because you think i should. i look back on myself the way i was...stupid kid who did that terrible crime...wish i could talk sense to him. tell him how things are. but i can't. that kid's long gone, this old man is all that's left, and i have to live with that. rehabilitated? that's a word, so you just go on ahead and stamp that form there, sonny, and stop wasting my time. truth is, i don't give a

speaker1: sir? restroom break sir? 
speaker2: you don't need to ask me every time you go take a piss. just go. understand? 28l int -- employee restroom -- day 281
speaker1: thirty years i've been asking permission to piss. i can't squeeze a drop without say-so.

speaker1: women, too, that's the other thing. i forgot they were half the human race. there's women everywhere, every shape and size. i find myself semi-hard most of the time, cursing myself for a dirty old man. 
speaker1: not a brassiere to be seen, poking out at the world. jeezus, pleeze-us. back in my day, a woman out in public like that would have been arrested and given a sanity hearing.

speaker1: you staying out of the bars, red? 
speaker2: yes sir. that i am.
speaker1: how you doing otherwise? adjusting okay?
speaker2: things got different out here.
speaker1: tell me about it. young punks protesting the war. you imagine? even my own kid. oughtta bust his skull.
speaker2: guess the world moved on.

speaker1: red is walking home. 
speaker2: there is a harsh truth to face. no way i'm gonna make it on the outside.
speaker2: all i do anymore is think of ways to break my parole.
speaker2: terrible thing, to live in fear. brooks hatlen knew it. knew it all too well. all i want is to be back where things make sense. where i won't have to be afraid all the time.
speaker2: only one thing stops me. a promise i made to andy.

speaker1: for the second time in my life, i am guilty of committing a crime. 
speaker1: parole violation. i doubt they'll toss up any roadblocks for that. not for an old crook like me.
speaker1: mcnary, texas?

speaker1: you look like a man who knows how to get things. 
speaker2: i'm known to locate certain things from time to time.

