speaker1: lyle? 
speaker2: i've got the orbital data and sv clock corrections for each satellite that gets the signal. that'll make my reading as solid as the precise positioning service that only the d.o.d. can use. we're talkin' 100 meter horizontal accuracy, 156 meter vertical accuracy, .340 nanoseconds time accuracy.
speaker3: why can't he talk like a person?
speaker1: ...because he's not.
speaker2: i do need one more thing, charlie.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: someone to turn the homing device on. no signal, no score.
speaker1: where're the italians?
speaker3: patience.

speaker1: what's that 
speaker2: a book. it's called reading. you should try it some time.
speaker1: you wanna read something. read between the lines.
speaker2: well here's something even you can relate to. albert got a lotta trim. that genius thing is a babe magnet.
speaker1: lemme see that book.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hi, sweetie.

speaker1: daddy. how are you? 
speaker2: i'm sending you something.
speaker1: really? does it smell nice?
speaker2: no. but it's sparkly.
speaker1: does it come with a receipt?
speaker2: i'm having it sent to you from the store.
speaker1: why not bring it by yourself? we could have dinner.
speaker2: be a long trip. i'm in genoa.
speaker1: let me guess. checking out the birthplace of christopher columbus.
speaker2: something like that.
speaker1: with your parole officer's approval.
speaker2: i think i've paid my p.o. my last visit. i liked the guy, but we never really connected.
speaker1: what are you into, dad? don't break my heart. you told me you were through.
speaker2: after this, i swear to you, i am.
speaker1: you promised me. daddy, don't do this.
speaker2: everything's going to be fine. i've got to go now. i love you. bye.
speaker2: italians?
speaker3: not yet.
speaker4: don't worry, they'll come through. you can trust these guys.
speaker2: i trust everyone. it's the devil inside them that i don't trust. got a sec?
speaker3: my office.
speaker2: how you feeling, boss?
speaker3: fine. i'm fine, fine.
speaker2: you know what fine, stands for, don't you? fucked-up, insecure, neurotic, and emotional.
speaker3: you've become quite the philosopher since you quit drinking.
speaker2: you don't like me sober?
speaker3: no, i'm glad. makes you a better thief.
speaker2: for after the haul.
speaker3: hope i get to fire it up. if steve's italians are a no-show, it's three months prep down the and i've dragged you out of retirement for nothing.
speaker2: this is kinda nice. you being the boss with all the worries, me just along for the ride.
speaker3: ain't you sweet... from the other side of the door, they hear --
speaker4: charlie!

speaker1: your italians. 
speaker2: yup. dixie cups.
speaker1: dixie cups?
speaker2: i toss 'em away if there's a problem down the road.

speaker1: for those about to rock, we salute you. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: let's get rich.

speaker1: i'm done. over. 
speaker2: copy that. enjoy the ride, cowboy.

speaker1: sweet 
speaker2: "that for which all virtue is sold. and almost every vice -- gold."

speaker1: my name is john and i'm a very rich alcoholic. and i'm going to live my life one very rich day at a time. 
speaker2: alright, john!
speaker1: you planned this one down to a t, kid. it's a gift. you saw the big picture, made contingencies, covered the angles...
speaker1: you made thirty million dollars in gold drop out of sight without holding a gun. who else could've pulled that off?
speaker3: you could've. i had big shoes to fill.
speaker1: fill the shoes but don't follow the footprints.
speaker3: what're you talking about? you've lived the life.
speaker1: my life's been nothing but fake ids, fake business cards and divorce papers. this is the only thing that's real.
speaker3: stella's a beautiful girl.
speaker1: she's amazing. and i spent half her childhood in prison. this is a once in a lifetime haul, charlie. bring down the curtain after this one. make a new life. find someone amazing and be there for her.

speaker1:  
speaker2: anyone acts stupid and his brains go on the windshield.
speaker3: what the do you think you're doing?
speaker2: sorry charlie. but i want the box of cracker jack all to myself.
speaker3: you're not thinking this through. it's a stupid move.
speaker2: think so? well you're the brilliant one. the master planner. isn't that so, john?
speaker2: you bet on the wrong horse.
speaker4: we'll hunt you down. you're gonna regret this.
speaker2: no regrets, dixie cup.

speaker1: two cops lurk at the doorway. 
speaker2: you always work in the dark?
speaker3: buzz of the fluorescents throws me off. she's all yours.
speaker4: chris perley couldn't crack it. neither could michael hoyt.
speaker3: now you know who to call first.
speaker2: you're expensive, stella. those guys cut us a break on subpoena jobs. goodwill, community service...
speaker3: well i do it for the money. i'll send you the bill.
speaker4: don't you want to see what's inside?
speaker3: i never look. bye, guys. and as she walks off, they do look -- at her.

speaker1: how long? 
speaker2: four minutes, forty-three seconds.
speaker1: you're the man.
speaker2: so what's on the line-up?
speaker1: 2:00. home safe in fairmount park. owner died and the wife never knew the combination. and todd milliken called. he has a prototype combination lock he wants you to test out tomorrow morning. says he added two false contact points on the tumbler.
speaker2: tell him if i don't have it opened in six minutes flat, breakfast is on me.
speaker1: and there's a charlie croker in your office. he said you two know each other. and he looks pretty fine for a white boy.

speaker1: charlie croker. 
speaker2: hi, stella.
speaker1: refresh my memory. after you came to see me and told me what happened to my father, i told you i never wanted to see you again, didn't i?
speaker2: yeah. you did.
speaker1: so i'm a little confused.
speaker2: i found him.
speaker2: i can tell you where he is.
speaker1: i don't want to know.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker2: he's in los angeles.
speaker2: the gold bricks he stole from us were minted in singapore and decorated with the face of a balinese girl. i've had my tentacles out and got a call from a friend of mine and your father's, philly steak.
speaker1: when i was little he would play poker at the house and drop quarters under the table for me to find.
speaker2: he got word from an l.a. connection named skinny pete that a gold dealer has been buying bricks with the balinese girl on them, three or four at a time.
speaker1: you ever heard the expression, cut to the chase?
speaker2: i tracked steve down to an address in the hollywood hills. he's changed his last name to frezelli. and get this: he had a worthington 1000 installed in the house before he even moved in. we both know that you don't install a worthington 1000 unless you have something precious to guard.
speaker1: precious or not, i don't deal with ill-gotten goods.
speaker2: we boosted that gold from a terrorist group that was about to trade it for bio-weapons. now that doesn't exactly make us robin hood, but maybe in our own little way we were doing a good deed. problem is, no one in my crew can handle that safe. and i need someone i can trust.
speaker1: and you think that's me? haven't you heard that i work for the other side?
speaker2: what i heard is that you have your father's touch. and he was the only safecracker i knew who could open a worthington 1000.
speaker1: i'm not a safecracker. i'm a professional safe and vault technician.
speaker2: you're john bridger's daughter. and this is our chance to set things right.
speaker1: our chance? who do you think you are coming in here? stealing the gold isn't going to bring my father back to life.
speaker2: no, it won't.
speaker1: then get out.

speaker1: how'd it go with the chick? 
speaker2: i'm working on it.
speaker1: i don't want her on the crew, charlie.
speaker2: gotta have her. important piece of the puzzle.
speaker1: there has to be someone else. what about bill huchins?
speaker2: doing ten long at levinworth.
speaker1: red o'reilly?
speaker2: chemo.
speaker1: martin hernandez?
speaker2: found
speaker1: i don't want a civilian to screw this up.
speaker2: she has the skill. and the motivation.
speaker1: exactly. she's emotional. you know what happens when emotion gets into it.
speaker2: it's emotional for all of us at this point. don't kid yourself.

speaker1: it's all in my patented sideways glance. like this... 
speaker1: i hit each woman on the jury with one of these. we make contact. and i know exactly what they're doing. me with their eyes.
speaker2: i see...
speaker1: the case is all but won. that's why in jury selection i choose as many women as possible. except lesbians, of course. i can tell in sixty seconds if they're a lesbian. want to know how i know?
speaker2: if they don't undress you with their eyes?
speaker1: precisely. like that waitress right there. see? she's looking at me right below my belt. definitely not a lesbian.
speaker2: your fly.
speaker1: i am fly. and i'm da bomb. just wait until later tonight.
speaker3: oh, man. i'm sorry.
speaker1: you should be. moron. what the hell's wrong with you?
speaker3: it was an accident. i'm very sorry.
speaker1: where's the manager? richard worth is not paying to have his suit cleaned. i'm going to... i don't believe this.
speaker4: i think your date's going pretty well, what do you think?
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker4: what do you mean? i come here all the time.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker4: sure. lawyers, judges, my kind of crowd. see that gentleman there, he sentenced me to 90 days in county once. we need to talk.
speaker2: no, you need to listen. i want you to leave. got it?
speaker4: hey, i paid valet parking prices to get in here, not to mention a twenty spot to the busboy to spill that drink on mister zipper.
speaker2: you -- i don't believe this. you paid someone to spill that drink?
speaker4: actually, you paid for it.
speaker4: didn't notice it was me who bumped into you earlier, did you? anyway, i was hoping we could get to know each other a little better before we leave for los angeles. i already booked your flight.
speaker2: you truly are a fatuous, odious man.
speaker4: i have no idea what you just said, but i like the sound of it.
speaker2: well maybe you'll understand this. hit the road, jack --
speaker4: charlie --
speaker2: or you'll be sorry, charlie, cause i'll kick you in the nuts so hard that your voice will be as high as my heels.
speaker4: i'm beginning to worry about this whole relationship.
speaker2: i'll let you in on a secret. you can't have a relationship with a pickpocket, gold robber, or any kind of thief.
speaker4: john wasn't just a man i crewed up with, he was my friend, he was the closest thing to a father i ever had. i wish to i could bring him back. but all i can do is go after this guy, the guy that killed him, and hit him where he lives.
speaker1: everything alright, stella?
speaker2: fine. richard. charlie. charlie was just saying goodbye.
speaker1: can i help you with something?
speaker4: oh, sorry. i was just you with my eyes.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: i'm in this for one thing, charlie, and one thing only. i want to see the look on his face when his gold is gone. he took my father from me, i'm taking this; it's the best i can do.

speaker1: i see drive defensively is your motto. 
speaker2: don't worry. jack daniels never let me down.
speaker1: by the way you drive, i'm not surprised you named your car after a bottle of whiskey. left.
speaker2: jack daniels was chief engineer of the mini. and i drive it exactly the way it was meant to be driven.
speaker1: another left.
speaker2: we're going in circles. who's tailing you this week?
speaker1: the possibilities are endless.

speaker1: where are they? 
speaker2: we're a little early. i didn't expect us to get here quite that fast. there...
speaker2: that's lyle. gearhead. he's who really invented napster...

speaker1: one m-80 in the toilet bowl too many. 
speaker2: that was rad!
speaker3: wha'?

speaker1: smashed the mark by twelve minutes. 
speaker1: he got a hundred and ten love letters sent to his jail cell from women who saw him on tv.

speaker1: and what about you? 
speaker2: i've been a thief since i had baby teeth.

speaker1: cough it up, charlie! 
speaker2: so much for lunch.
speaker3: you need a dollar?
speaker2: i thought he took your last one.
speaker3: he did.
speaker3: but i got lots more now.

speaker1: this is stella. she's working with us on this one. ids? 
speaker2: melvin lisp? could i -- just once -- have a cool name?
speaker3: 220 pounds? try 180.
speaker4: try 'deal a meal'.
speaker2: i don't even have a cool nickname.
speaker1: enough of this sewing-circle phones.
speaker3: philly steak says these are clean as a whistle. he also got us four dozen internal chips with different numbers. change out the chips twice a day.
speaker1: we travel to l.a. separately.
speaker2: you still haven't told us the most important thing. what exactly is the job, charlie? and who exactly is she?
speaker1: this is stella bridger. and we're finishing the job that we started in italy.
speaker3: holy it's about time.

speaker1: we need an in to get a video blueprint of the interior. we're not going into this place blind. half-ear, you take the first surveillance shift. who goes in, who goes out, levels of security, you know the drill. 
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: i also want audio surveillance on his phone.
speaker3: i'll hack into the phone company's central office remote observance monitoring system and fool it into thinking there's a legal tap on the line. reroute the digital copies of his calls to our own listening post.
speaker1: how long?
speaker3: i'll burn through the night, have it up and running before morning.
speaker1: we need to know how long to get from the house to union station downtown.
speaker4: no problemo.
speaker1: stella. how much time will you need with the safe?
speaker5: i'll have it open in five minutes flat.
speaker4: it's not the same as opening a safe for the cops. your heart will be pounding in your ears. perspiration on your fingertips. it's a whole different ball game.
speaker5: you get me to the safe, i'll open it.

speaker1: armed guard. 9mm semi-automatic in the holster. security booth is accessible and ideal for a triple charger chemical grenade. 
speaker1: dogs. why do black men hate dogs? i'll tell you why, charlie. because dogs are racist. that's a natural fact. someone else deal with 'em.

speaker1: all those poor out there putting their life savings in banks and sandls and mutual funds. what do they think -- that when the collapse comes they can depend on the government? i don't think so. 
speaker2: is the camera off?
speaker1: of course. just like you said. i never tape you, you can see for yourself.
speaker1: governments are nothing more than puppets on the strings of the trilateral commission with their twisted gods.
speaker1: i mean, it's so obvious that in a world where nafta can overturn the supreme court, not to mention microsoft's nefarious financial machinations, this, is our only refuge; gold.
speaker1: plus a little walking around money.

speaker1: doesn't matter what time it is. it's either bad traffic, peak traffic, or slit-your-wrists traffic. 
speaker2: you gotta ride the metro-rail, man.
speaker1: i'm sure it's ideal for carrying a ton of gold, genius.
speaker3: what's your guesstimate?
speaker1: if we had all green lights, fourteen minutes. but in the twenty times i've done it, the average is thirty- two minutes, with a top time of fifty minutes.
speaker3: then we'll travel like rockefeller.
speaker3: when cars first started catching on, workers on tall ladders would use these swiveling colored boards for traffic signals. now whenever rockefeller would take the drive from his mansion to his office on wall street, the workers would make sure that he got green boards all the way.
speaker1: how do we get all green lights?
speaker3: lyle?
speaker4: let me see what i can do.
speaker2: did you know that the first traffic signal to be patented was invented by a black man named garrett morgan? you're not the only one who watches the history channel.
speaker1: we still need an in to get the video blueprint.
speaker4: carpet cleaners? gutter cleaners? flower delivery?
speaker3: we'll never get by the guard unless they're certain it's legit. i'm thinking cable tv. we cut his cable, he calls the cable company. we show up. send a cable technician into the house with a pinhole video camera while we get a feed through an rf antenna.
speaker1: who plays cable technician? steve thinks we're all dead.
speaker5: if you're all dead, i guess i'm the man for the job.
speaker3: are you up for it?
speaker5: in for a penny, in for a pound.

speaker1: i'm telling you. he claims he named it napster because his hair is so nappy underneath that cap of his. but i know the real reason. it's because i was napping when he stole the idea from me. i should've been on the cover of wired magazine. 
speaker2: would you clam up. you'd give a woodpecker a headache.
speaker1: i'm the napster.
speaker2: okay. you're the napster. heads up: cable chick.
speaker1: becky. nice name. i wonder what she calls the other one.
speaker2: and it's such a mystery why you don't have a girlfriend.
speaker1: i had a girlfriend. unfortunately even though the relationship ceased in an objective reality, it's still going on in my mind. that woman's lived in here rent-free for four years.
speaker1: okay. all we need now is a work shirt like this one and a service truck like that one. you think stella will be able to pull it off?
speaker2: i have my doubts, but there's no talking to charlie.
speaker1: maybe he's been inserting his hard drive into her software. clouds the judgment.
speaker2: he knows better than to mix business with pleasure. only i'm allowed to do that.
speaker1: where you going?
speaker2: to get a work shirt and a service truck.

speaker1: what can i do for you, mister frezelli? 
speaker2: the cable's out. see if you can get someone over here to fix it'.
speaker1: yes, sir.

speaker1: whoa. i've never heard the muzak version of purple haze before. 
speaker2: when's the appointment?
speaker1: thursday between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: yes, i'm calling from adelphia cable. i understand your service is out and an appointment was set up for thursday.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: well we have a technician working in your area who finished with an appointment earlier than expected. will someone be there for the next hour?
speaker3: sure. that'd be great.
speaker2: our technician will see you then. have a nice day.
speaker3: you too.
speaker2: let's check the camera.
speaker1: stella, you're going patriotic today.
speaker2: he's got cable lines in the kitchen, living room, bedroom and a cable modem on the computer in the office. try to get a 360 look at each room. and walk slowly or the image will streak.
speaker1: i printed these up to look like paperwork from adelphia. when you're done, ask him to sign and date the bottom.
speaker2: how you doing?
speaker4: fine. i'm fine.
speaker2: you know what fine, stands for? fucked- up, insecure -- stella joins in with him...
speaker5: neurotic and emotional.

speaker1: here's our spot. 
speaker2: girls girls girls.
speaker1: philly steak said we'd be frisked.

speaker1: y'got a great job. 
speaker2: pays the rent, you got a problem, talk to skinny pete.

speaker1: philly steak sent you? 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: so was i right-on about the gold bricks or what?
speaker2: that's really not what i'm here to talk about. philly steak said you could get us some supplies.
speaker1: what do you need?
speaker2: a four inch can of nitramon. nitramon primer. detonating cord. two triple charger chemical grenades. launcher.
speaker1: nine p.m.
speaker3: should we hang here? check out the dancers?
speaker1: nothing's going down here. i don't in my own yard, do you?
speaker3: no, but i take a whizz off the deck sometimes.
speaker1: five thousand dollars. and don't be late.

speaker1: it's all right. they won't bother you now. 
speaker2: it's okay. i'm used to running into all sorts of dogs on my job.
speaker1: i'm steve.
speaker2: becky.
speaker2: you want to show me the problem?
speaker1: yeah. course. this way.

speaker1: i'll show you. 
speaker2: she turns her body so the mini-lens can stare at the gleaming black worthington 1000 safe. then she goes up to his desk and pretends to work on the cable line that feeds into his computer.
speaker1: the cable guy who hooked this up weighed about 300 pounds, didn't wear any underwear, and his pants slung a little too low if you know what i mean.
speaker3: there we go. now onto the tvs.

speaker1: is it fixed? 
speaker2: turn it on and see.

speaker1: now. 
speaker2: perfect.
speaker3: then it looks like you're all set.
speaker2: have we met before?
speaker3: i don't think so. sign here, please.
speaker3: date.
speaker2: you read my mind.
speaker3: oh, no. i meant that i need you to put the date by your signature. it's the 26th.
speaker2: i know what you meant. this might seem a little sudden, but... would you like to have dinner with me?
speaker3: i don't think that'd be a very good idea.
speaker2: why? is there some kind of cable- rule against dating customers?
speaker3: no, it's my rule. i don't accept dates from men i've just met. i've only known you five minutes.
speaker2: then i guess i'll have to sabotage my cable over and over again until you get to know me better.
speaker2: look, i'm just talking about dinner. friday night. it's no big deal. if you don't like me, you never have to see me again. you know i'm not going to stop until you say yes.

speaker1: i know it was tough in there. 
speaker2: he touched my hand. and he came-on to me. that slimy, disgusting man came onto me and i had to pretend that i liked it.
speaker2: you do know what this means... i've created our window of opportunity.
speaker1: i know. when steve leaves friday night, we go in. by the time he realizes you've stood him up, we'll be long gone with the gold.

speaker1: skinny pete. 
speaker2: the guy makes jabba the hut look like a spokesman for the subway sandwiches' diet.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: i'm trying not to.

speaker1: drive slow. we crash and we're a crater. 
speaker2: what'd you put in the trunk?
speaker1: suitcase.
speaker2: just gimme the keys before i pop a cap in your head.
speaker2: hurry up!

speaker1: lyle, what's the distance from the front door to the vault? 
speaker1: lyle?
speaker2: he only answers to the napster now.
speaker1: i'm not calling you the napster.
speaker3: you call him half-ear.
speaker4: that wasn't my idea.
speaker3: and him, handsome rob.
speaker1: that's only cause he is handsome rob.
speaker3: and i'm the napster.
speaker1: how far? the napster.
speaker3: five hundred yards.
speaker1: so here's the riddle. how do we get over a ton of gold from the vault to the getaway car?
speaker5: how wide is the hallway?
speaker3: only six feet.

speaker1: jack daniels, straight up. 
speaker2: minis?
speaker1: we could rumble right up the front steps, bring the getaway car right to the vault, and then straight to union station.
speaker3: we'll need three to hold the gold.

speaker1: i'd say you're a maserati 250 s. just 4 cylinders but can go 0 to 60 in 4.2. 
speaker2: as long as it's a convertible -- i always like to have my top down.
speaker2: do you know them?
speaker1: never seen 'em before in my life.

speaker1: you're early. 
speaker2: and i'm in a hurry, okay?

speaker1: of course the florida vote rigging was a cia and mob operation. 
speaker2: that a fact?
speaker1: you want facts? fact: cia officials were allowed free -- and illegal -- access to official election material.
speaker1: now given the sordid history in miami of joint ventures between central intelligence and the mob, which led to the unsuccessful attempts to kill fidel castro and the successful assassination of your president john f. kennedy, this conjunction raises numerous red flags.
speaker2: and i'd love to hear more about it, but like i said...
speaker1: don't worry, we'll have you out in no time. the cash is on its way.
speaker2: on its way?
speaker1: my cousin is bringing it over.
speaker2: your cousin?
speaker1: yes. cousin mashkov.
speaker2: he's on his way?
speaker1: don't worry, he will be here any minute.
speaker2: the tape's off?
speaker1: of course. believe me, he doesn't want to be on video, either.
speaker2: yevhen. didn't i tell you, many times, that i never wanted to meet with anyone but you?
speaker1: i know. but it's his cash. he uses me to launder money. i'm just a middleman.
speaker2: and a middleman is supposed to stay in the middle.
speaker1: but you were early. please. don't worry. it will be fine. my cousin's a cool guy. like i am.
speaker2: what you are, is a dixie cup.
speaker1: dixie cup?

speaker1: my cousin yevhen was beaten to death. 
speaker2: by who?
speaker1: that's what i'm going to find out.
speaker2: and what will you do when you find this piece of who killed your cousin?
speaker1: i'll hack off his limbs and bury him while he's still alive.
speaker2: okay. but now we should stop talking ukrainian, it's rude to my girl.
speaker3: how are you tonight, karen?
speaker4: hungry.
speaker2: then eat your frosted flakes.
speaker4: they're grrrreat!
speaker2: such a perfect girl.

speaker1: how are our matchbox cars? 
speaker2: souped.
speaker3: don't let their size fool you. these were rally cars back in the day. 135 mph, 155 horsepower --
speaker4: do i get to drive one?
speaker2: no.
speaker4: why not?
speaker2: because you can't navigate your way out of a parking lot. here's your ride.
speaker4: but he ran into me.
speaker2: he's not driving either. you ever got a speeding ticket?
speaker3: let's put it this way: i can only get insurance through companies that advertise on tv at 3:00 in the morning.
speaker2: you drive. i drive. charlie drives.
speaker1: i got us spots for three cars on a car carrier and five first class seats. train 59 from union station to new orleans.
speaker5: that's n'or'lins, yankee.
speaker1: what's the word on rockefeller?
speaker4: the traffic control center is on the top floor of a building on olympic and grand. they get their data from pavement loop detectors and video image vehicle detectors. that info is fused together by specially designed algorithms to predict traffic conditions and control the traffic lights. so all i have to do now is change the data by creating my own algorithm.
speaker1: what can i do to help?
speaker4: i need to hard-wire into the mainframes.

speaker1: b4 x ttratio, where bi are fisher's linear discriminant function coefficients, spdrat is the speed ratio, and ttratio is the travel time ratio. 
speaker2: i have no idea what you're doing. just do it fast. there.
speaker1: we own this place.

speaker1: $2000. and this is the new girl. fresh off the bus. one of danya's guys picked her up hitchhiking downtown. 
speaker2: those tits'd make dracula rise from his coffin at high-noon.
speaker1: they're all yours saturday. you can do whatever you want to her. her name is karen...
speaker2: you're too generous.
speaker1: i needed a fast answer.
speaker2: and i'm the shell answer man. a guy who works the counter at your cousin's shop told me that someone named skinny pete had been asking around about gold bricks with the face of a balinese girl on them. same gold bricks your cousin was buying.
speaker1: you talked to this skinny pete?
speaker2: i thought you'd want a shot at him first.

speaker1: you want the safe cracked, don't you? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: then i have to have perfect nails.
speaker2: are you making this up?
speaker1: i just let you in on a valuable trade secret.
speaker3: charlie.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker3: steve called to confirm a 7:30 reservation at ago's. and as for your getaway, not even rockefeller had it so good.

speaker1: radio check. 
speaker2: got cha, boss.
speaker3: loud and clear.

speaker1: stella? 
speaker2: i know. i've got a date tonight.
speaker1: you'll have to fake it. laugh at his jokes. you need him to ask you out again.

speaker1: you really make laugh. 
speaker2: so here's what i have lined up for after dinner. we'll go to club deep. the ferrari always gets me to the front of the line. we'll do a little dancing...
speaker1: not tonight. i don't want to be out late.
speaker2: why the curfew?
speaker1: let's just say i've made some wrong calls in the past. i like to take things slow, cautious. next time...
speaker2: i understand. you have nothing to worry about. you can trust me.
speaker1: i trust everyone. it's the devil inside them that i don't trust.
speaker2: that's an interesting saying.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: there's only person i've ever heard say that. used to say it all the time.
speaker1: who was that?
speaker2: a man named john bridger. where did you pick up that phrase?
speaker1: ow. i don't remember. you're hurting me.
speaker2: john bridger was a thief. and he had a daughter. about your age. he told me that she took over a safe and lock company that he used as a front.
speaker1: let go of my wrist. what is wrong with you? it's just a saying.
speaker2: no wonder i liked you right away. just like i liked your old man, right up until the moment i shot him in the head. now tell me who you're working with and tell me the plan. do it now or we'll go for a ride and i'll break every bone in your body.
speaker3: something wrong, steve? you look like you want to call ghostbusters.
speaker4: she's coming with us. you got a problem with that?
speaker2: fine by me. but it's you that has the problem.
speaker5: how do you figure?
speaker2: you've just blown the one thing you had going in your favor, the element of surprise. and i was surprised. christ when i saw all you guys come out of the woodwork. for a minute i thought maybe you were ghosts. but you're screwed now. did you figure out how to take care of my security guard? i'll hire five more. you know how to bypass my alarm system? i'll have a new one installed tomorrow. does it tear you up inside seeing what car i drive? i'll buy a matching one in red. you think you can crack my safe? you'll end up the same way as your dad. looks like good time charlie's got the blues.
speaker3: you can wear that shit-eating grin on your face, but i know under that versace shirt you're in a cold sweat. and you're not going to sleep a minute tonight. cause you thought you'd gotten away with it free and clear. you thought you'd gotten rid of us. you're the one who's screwed. right to the wall.
speaker2: give it your best shot. i'll outsmart you every step of the way. and this time, i'll bury you myself.
speaker3: get more guards. change the alarm. buy a dozen ferraris. we'll still be here. sleep tight.

speaker1: do you know who i am? 
speaker2: you work for danya.
speaker1: yes. and you are gonna be straight with me and everything's gonna be okay. you with me, i will be ruthless.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker1: i don't want you to understand. i want you to overstand.
speaker2: overstand... okay.
speaker1: because if you don't overstand, i will use this.
speaker1: someone was asking about gold bars with a balinese girl's face on them. i want the name of this man.

speaker1: well we scared him alright. he's flying the coop. his security guard called brink's armored car service to confirm a 5 p.m. pick up at his house, then jetclub to confirm a md11 cargo plane departing from the imperial terminal at lax at 8 p.m. 
speaker2: confirmed? how'd we miss the first calls?
speaker1: they must have been cellular. the cargo plane is being chartered to mexico city.
speaker3: only place with worse smog and traffic than l.a.
speaker4: once the charter's in the air, he could change the flight path to anywhere. and good-bye gold.
speaker2: not so fast. this is good news for us.
speaker3: good news?
speaker2: sometimes when you're up to your in alligators you forget that you started off trying to drain the swamp.
speaker3: meaning what the
speaker2: we've been trying to get to the gold in the safe. now the safe is coming to us. we'll boost it in transit.
speaker3: charlie. he could take a dozen different routes to the airport and we have no idea which one. we can't take out an armored truck during rush hour.
speaker2: we're already set to do it. napster: how would you like to create the biggest traffic jam in the history of los angeles?
speaker1: keep talking.
speaker2: you gridlock every route except the one we choose. force the truck to go exactly where we want it to go.
speaker3: but where do we want it? we can't shoot it out with armed guards in a brink's. we'd lose. and even if we pulled it off, the cops would be all over us, chasing us all the way to union station. we're outmanned and outgunned.
speaker2: but not outsmarted.
speaker2: we'll do it like the italian job. we'll make thirty million in gold drop out of sight.
speaker2: who else has this number?
speaker5: no one but us.
speaker2: hello?

speaker1: why'd you do it? 
speaker2: philly steak. do what?
speaker1: yevhen. the ukrainian gold, dealer. you didn't, have to clip him, for christ's sakes.
speaker2: clip him?
speaker1: listen to me. you've gotta get out of l.a. now.
speaker2: what're you talking about? we didn't clip anybody.
speaker1: well skinny pete just called me. yevhen's cousin is under the distinct impression that you did.
speaker2: why does he think that?
speaker1: because you wanted, to know about the gold with the balinese girl. plus i guess pete was under duress. this ukrainian thinks he's paul bunyan.
speaker2: do you know how to get in touch with him?
speaker1: yeah but...
speaker2: maybe there's a way we can play this to our advantage.
speaker1: are you out of your mind? listen to me, charlie. get out of l.a. now. cause if there's one thing i know, it's that you never mess with mother nature, mother-in-laws, or mother- ukrainians.

speaker1: he's going to be on train 59 for new orleans. 
speaker2: you sure your source is good?
speaker1: i'm sure.

speaker1: did you know einstein's 7th grade teacher told him he was a moron who'd never amount to anything? same as mine. 
speaker2: still hope for that nobel prize.
speaker1: not me, man. but i did get my college diploma.
speaker2: no i thought you dropped out of high school.
speaker1: got my ged after italy then just kept going.
speaker2: how'd you manage that, all the jobs we've been pulling?
speaker1: quit going to strip clubs. went to night school instead. city college is all.
speaker2: good for you. that's a real feather in your cap.
speaker1: i didn't want to say anything to the guys.
speaker2: secret's safe with me.

speaker1: napster. how goes it up there? over. 
speaker2: working on the metro rail system. almost ready.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: ah huh. just need a moment's meditation.
speaker1: now?
speaker2: i'm about to insert a wire into a detonator tube and if the wire touches the sides of tube, we'll be blown to kingdom come. best to be at one with yourself.
speaker1: take all the time you need.
speaker2: my work here is done.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: he's brought in three identical armored trucks.
speaker1: decoys. it's like a shell game on wheels.
speaker3: how can i reroute the truck if i don't know which truck to reroute?

speaker1: three brink's trucks are leaving with motorcycle escorts, plus steve in his ferrari. 
speaker2: how're we going to figure out which truck has the gold?
speaker3: you can monitor the traffic video cameras from your laptop, right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: where's the first camera the trucks will go past?
speaker2: cahuenga boulevard. they all have to cross that.
speaker3: the weight of the gold will lower the suspension on the truck.

speaker1: lines up with the top of the sign. next... 
speaker1: first two are the same.

speaker1: this is christina griego with your drive-home traffic report on knx. i'm looking down on hollywood boulevard and this is definitely a cig alert. 
speaker2: what the hell?
speaker3: opening up a space on north highland.

speaker1: get us out of here. 
speaker2: i'm trying.

speaker1: he's taking it... 
speaker1: i now command you to turn left.

speaker1: according to the police, the computers at the traffic control center are down. 
speaker2: sonovabitch.

speaker1: nice work. 
speaker2: well like einstein almost said: genius is ten percent inspiration, ninety percent detonation.
speaker1: let's get our gold.
speaker3: i've seen earthquakes, mudslides, fires, riots, but this... let me try to paint a picture for our listeners.
speaker3: there's been some kind of an explosion and a brink's truck has just dropped down into the metro rail blue line.
speaker4: the truck's in the metro rail. where does the blue line go back above ground?

speaker1: stella? 
speaker2: shhh...
speaker2: you know when you said this wouldn't be the same as opening a safe for the cops?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: did you have to be right?

speaker1: don't you want to see what's inside? 
speaker2: i never look.
speaker1: trust me. you wanna look.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker1: what -- are -- you -- doing?

speaker1: go that way! 
speaker2: that stretches out toward the staples center.

speaker1: what's wrong with you, you stupid- ass, son of a dickhead... 
speaker1: what? you want a piece of me? c'mon, dumbshit. bring it on. i'll be pulling peanuts out of your -- bang. steve shoots the guy's foot.
speaker1: you shot me in the foot!

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: away.
speaker1: how about far, far away?
speaker2: the farther the better.

speaker1: i want to make a toast. cause there's somebody missing here today, and we all know who it is. 
speaker1: to john bridger. the most brilliant master planner of them all. we wish he was with us.
speaker2: to john.

speaker1: take out your gun and drop it on the floor. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: you knew my cousin. yevhen.
speaker2: i never knew anyone named yevhen.
speaker1: get in the trunk. not that trunk, this one. that gold is for us. a gift from some old friends of yours. they said to tell you that they didn't mind sharing the box of cracker jack, as long as you didn't get any. not even the toy surprise.
speaker2: please. don't shoot me. please...
speaker1: don't worry. that wasn't the deal. i'm not going to shoot you.
speaker2: thank you. thank
speaker1: he really thought i was going to shoot him.
speaker1: no. no. i'm not going to shoot you. i'm going to hack off your limbs and bury you while you're still alive.

speaker1: new ids. 
speaker2: simon quackenbush? could i -- just once -- have a cool name?
speaker3: 250_pounds?
speaker1: did you get what you wanted?
speaker4: i'm happy.
speaker1: it was good doing business with you.

speaker1: is this seat taken? 
speaker2: it is now.

speaker1: we did it. 
speaker2: we sure did.
speaker1: there's something i've been meaning to ask you, stella. but i've just been so busy lately, what with the explosion, car chase, ukrainians and all.
speaker2: it has been a hectic day.
speaker1: it's about that thing you said to me back in philadelphia.
speaker2: that thing?
speaker1: you said that you can't have a relationship with a pickpocket, gold robber, or any kind of thief.
speaker2: oh... that thing.
speaker1: do you still believe that?
speaker2: yeah. i do.
speaker1: well i was wondering... what about a retired pickpocket, gold robber, thief?
speaker2: now that's an entirely different question.

