speaker1: is anything gone? 
speaker2: how can i look? i'm shaking.
speaker1: my the kandinsky!
speaker3: it's gone! call the police!
speaker4: there it is!
speaker5: thank

speaker1: we could've been killed. 
speaker2: don't say that. the silver victorian inkwell!

speaker1: how can you think of things? we could have been murdered. 
speaker2: i want to know if anything's gone?
speaker2: there's the inkwell. silver beaver. why?
speaker1: slashed ---our throats slashed. go to bed at night happy and then murdered. would we have-woken up?
speaker3: but it's their pug dog licking her leg. ouisa picks up the dog and pets it.
speaker2: we have to go to the wedding.
speaker1: i am in no mood to go to any wedding.
speaker2: we have to
speaker1: they're your friends
speaker2: i beg to differ. they're your fr - flan stops, frightened suddenly, listening.
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: you don't call out hello unless-- they walk softly to the dark hall.
speaker2: i think we could tell if someone else was here.
speaker1: we didn't all night.

speaker1: then i'll drive. 
speaker2: i have to hang on.

speaker1: let's just get there 
speaker2: the sound of the rain, the jazz, the thunder.
speaker3: bottle of beer. bottle of beer. bottle of beer.
speaker4: bottle of beer.
speaker3: bottle- of beer.
speaker4: very good. you owe me.

speaker1: be care - ! 
speaker1: let me drive!
speaker2: driving calms me!
speaker1: when you're in one of these moods you do not drive well and i do not want to be killed today.
speaker2: we could have been killed last night.
speaker1: stop saying that!

speaker1: i'm driving slowly. see. slowly. 
speaker2: i went in the room first.
speaker1: where's the goddam turnoff onto the taconic? a truck veers and almost hits them.
speaker2: you didn't see what i saw!
speaker1: it's that maria callas! turn that thing off! flan snaps off the tape deck.
speaker2: it's not maria callas. it's that truck and you.
speaker1: and last night.

speaker1: happy is the bride the sun shines on 
speaker2: you look horrible!
speaker1: no no! could've been killed. all fine!

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: wonderful wedding. wonderful day.

speaker1: bride's side? groom's side. 
speaker2: either side. i can't even remember how we met them. why are we here?
speaker3: do not make a scene.
speaker2: now i lay me down to sleep - the most terrifying words just think of it -
speaker3: i pray the lord my soul to keep-
speaker2: the nightmare part - if i should die before i wake -
speaker3: if i should die - i pray the lord my soul to take - couple in the pew in front turn. a
speaker4: is anything wrong?
speaker3: we were almost murdered

speaker1: chaos. 
speaker1: control. chaos. control.

speaker1: we always get this way at weddings. 
speaker2: i do not always get this way at weddings.
speaker1: we're alive.
speaker2: oh, it was awful awful awful awful.

speaker1: did you say you could have been killed? 
speaker2: yes! only hours ago!
speaker3: but we're here!
speaker2: wouldn't miss it!

speaker1: they stop in the small quiet dark clubby bar. 
speaker2: we hate to pry -
speaker3: no no. you're not prying
speaker4: but what happened -
speaker2: this is our friend julia
speaker3: do we know each other?
speaker5: oh yes through...

speaker1: we're worried for you flan and ouisa look at each other. 
speaker2: tell them!
speaker3: we were having a wonderful evening last night.
speaker2: a friend we hadn't seen for many years came by for dinner. i don't think you know him -
speaker3: geoffrey miller. from south africa--
speaker2: don't say it so portentously.

speaker1: geoffrey from south africa. 
speaker2: don't be ga-ga. something large.
speaker3: i didn't know geoffrey was in town.
speaker4: i saw him at susie baxter's
speaker3: i wasn't at susie baxter's
speaker5: sandy forgets he was married to susie baxter. the waiter goes.
speaker6: that's no reason why she can't invite me to a party.
speaker5: he's an art dealer. julia nods now that's she's remembered. flan private sales. purchases. ouisa leans forward. somehow the telling calms her.
speaker2: we knew geoffrey
speaker1: through our children when geoffrey and his family all lived in new york.
speaker2: they've moved back to south africa.
speaker1: he was here in new york briefly on business and asked us to ask him for dinner.

speaker1: he's king midas rich. literally. gold mines. the waiter puts down the tray of drinks. 
speaker2: seventy thousand workers in just one gold mine.
speaker1: but he is always short of cash because his government won't let its people --
speaker2: its white people --
speaker1: -- its white people take out any money. so it's like taking in a war baby.
speaker1: thank you. that one's mine - they switch drinks.
speaker2: when he called it was like a bolt from the blue as i had a deal coming up and was short by

speaker1: flan puts down his drink. 
speaker2: the figure is superfluous ouisa turns to connie.
speaker3: i hate when he uses the word "superfluous". i mean, we needed two million and we hadn't seen geoffrey in a long time and while geoffrey might not have the price of a dinner he easily might have two million dollars.
speaker2: the currents last night were very churny.
speaker4: we weren't sucking up. we like geoffrey.

speaker1: it's that awful thing of having truly rich folk for friends. 
speaker2: face it. the money does get in the -
speaker1: only if you let it. the fact of the money shouldn't get in-
speaker2: having a rich friend is like drowning and your friend makes life boats. but the friend gets very touchy if you say one word: life boat. well, that's two words. we were afraid our south african friend might say "you only love me for my. life boats?" but we like geoffrey.
speaker3: i know who he is now.
speaker4: lovely man.

speaker1: didn't he invite us to visit him? 
speaker2: it wasn't a life-threatening evening.
speaker3: should we?
speaker4: not on your life.
speaker5: flan signals another round.
speaker2: hardly a life boat evening - ouisa sits, enjoying this.
speaker3: portentous.
speaker2: but when geoffrey called and asked us to take him for dinner, he made a sudden pattern in life's little tea leaves because who wants to go to banks? flan's voice takes us back to last night

speaker1: geoffrey called and our tempests settled into showers and life was manageable. what more can you want? 
speaker2: listen.
speaker1: what's wrong?

speaker1: it always amazes me when new york is so quiet. ouisa and flan relax and laugh. 
speaker2: with the kids away, we get used to a lower noise quotient. flan pours a drink for geoffrey.
speaker3: geoffrey, you have to move out of south africa. you'll be killed.
speaker1: one has to stay there to educate the black workers and we'll know we've been successful when they kill us.
speaker3: planning the revolution that will destroy you.
speaker2: putting your life on the line.
speaker1: you don't think of it like that. i wish you'd come visit.
speaker2: but we'd visit you and sit in your gorgeous house planning trips into the townships demanding to see the poorest of the poor. "are you sure they're the worst off? i mean, we've come all this way. we don't want to see people just mildly victimized by apartheid. we demand shock." it doesn't seem right sitting on the east side talking about revolution.
speaker3: only small murky cafes for pepe le noko here.
speaker2: no. la passionaria. i will come to south africa and build barricades and lean against them, singing.

speaker1: and the people would follow. 
speaker2: "follow follow follow". what's that song?
speaker1: the way gorbachev cheered on the striking coal miners in the ukraine - yes, you must strike- it is your role in history to dismantle this system. russia and poland - you can't believe the developments in the world - "the fantasticks" "follow follow follow".
speaker2: china. flan and ouisa oh.
speaker3: oy vay china. as my grandmother would say. our role in history. and we offer ourselves up to it.
speaker1: that is your role in history. not our role. ouisa ponders this thought.
speaker2: a role in history. to say that so easily.

speaker1: baying up into the sky. 
speaker2: geoffrey turns into the room.
speaker3: wonderful view.
speaker4: the phrase - striking coal miners - i see all these very striking coal miners modelling the fall fashions.
speaker3: where should we?
speaker5: there's good szechuan. and hunan.
speaker4: the sign painter screwed up the sign. instead of the hunan wok, he painted the human wok.
speaker3: the restaurants! new york has become the florence of the sixteenth century. genius on every corner.
speaker4: i don't think genius has kissed the human wok. they finish off their drinks.
speaker3: the new italian looked cheery. flan and ouisa good.
speaker5: we made reservations.
speaker5: geoffrey, i'd like to show -

speaker1: this restaurant - they wrap ravioli up like salt water taffy. flan appears behind her to help her. 
speaker2: six on a plate for a few hundred dollars.
speaker3: you have to come to south africa so
speaker1: did you hear - to take back to johannesburg. out in eastharpton

speaker1: a guy goes into one of the better food stores - 
speaker2: dean and deluca - flan helps ouisa on with her coat.
speaker1: one of the dean and deluca look alikes. gets a pack of cigarettes and an ice cream bar. goes up front. sees there's a line at the register. slaps down two twenty dollar bills and goes out. geoffrey doesn't get the anecdote.
speaker2: we sent it to the times. geoffrey smiles politely.
speaker1: they have the joke page of things around new york.

speaker1: they send you a bottle of champagne. 
speaker2: the chums listen enrapt. ouisa is serious.
speaker3: we weren't auditioning but i kept thinking two million dollars two million dollars.
speaker1: it's like when people say -don't think about elephants' and all you can think about is elephants elephants elephants.
speaker3: two million dollars two million dollars.

speaker1: what ever you do, don't think about elephants. 
speaker2: elephants?
speaker3: louisa is a dada manifesto. about the cezanne - unless we're careful, it'll be sold and never seen again -

speaker1: mid-period. landscape of a dark green forest. in the far distance you see the sunlight. one of his first uses of a pale color being forced to carry the weight of the picture. the experiment that would pay of in the apples. a burst of color asked to carry so much-- the japanese don't like anything about it except it's a cezanne-- and suddenly the door in the wall opens up. 
speaker2: i'm so sorry to bother you, but i've been hurt- and i've lost everything and i didn't know where to go. your children-- i'm a friend of --
speaker3: the chums are transfixed.
speaker4: and he mentioned our childrens' names.
speaker1: and the school where they went.
speaker4: harvard. you can say harvard.
speaker1: we don't want to get into libel.
speaker5: paul

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: they took my money and my brief case. i said my thesis is in there -
speaker3: his shirt's bleeding.
speaker1: his shirt is not bleeding. he's bleeding. paul holds his mouth, nauseous.
speaker2: i get this way around blood. flan not on the rug. eddie, get the doctor-- eddie turns to leave.
speaker2: no! i'll survive. please. no doctors - paul, frightened, looks at flan. flan we'll call if we need any -
speaker1: thank you, eddie - eddie goes.
speaker4: paul sits on the side of the tub.

speaker1: i don't mind the money. but in this age of 
speaker2: where's the first aid book! ouisa runs into their bedroom.

speaker1: ouisa is moved by these events. 
speaker2: we bathed him. we did first aid.
speaker3: ouisa reads from the manual.
speaker2: the red cross advises: press edges of the wound firmly together, wash area with water-
speaker4: yes! i'm doing that - hold on flan daubs on mercurochrome.
speaker5: owww!
speaker4: hold still! ouisa! i need gauze!
speaker6: it's been wonderful seeing you--
speaker7: ouisa no no no! stay!
speaker6: my time is so short. before i leave america, i really should call -
speaker2: you darling old -
speaker4: have you seen the new book on cezanne?

speaker1: an absolute revelation - this'll only take a mo- ouisa rushes out of the bathroom after geoffrey. 
speaker2: i need the gauze

speaker1: two million dollars two million dollars-- 
speaker2: flan finishes bandaging paul's wound.
speaker3: she takes a pink shirt from the bureau.

speaker1: he's going to be fine. 
speaker2: lovely book.
speaker3: please? stay?
speaker2: agreed.

speaker1: your children said you were kind. all the kids were sitting around the dorm one night dishing the- out of their parents. but your kids were silent and said no, not our parents. not flan and ouisa. not the kittredges. the kittredges are kind. so after the muggers left, i looked up and saw these fifth avenue apartments. mrs. onassis lives there. i know the babcocks live over there. the auchinclosses live there. but you lived here. i came here. ouisa, so touched, turns to flan and geoffrey. 
speaker2: can you believe what the kids said?

speaker1: but your kids - i love them. talbot and woody mean the world to me. 
speaker2: he lets you call him woody? nobody's called him woody in years.

speaker1: what makes it valuable is kandinsky painted on either side of the canvas in two wildly different styles. one side is geometric and somr=r. the other side is wild and vivid. 
speaker2: my
speaker1: we flip it around for variety.
speaker3: you like? you like? chaos? control? chaos? control?
speaker4: it's wonderful.
speaker5: flan turns to julia.
speaker1: wassily kandinsky. born 1866 moscow. blue
speaker6: paul looks around the apartment, so cozy, warm.
speaker4: it's the way they said it would be.

speaker1: did you your parents? 
speaker2: as a matter of fact. no. your kids and i...we both liked our parents... loved our--look, am i getting in the way? i burst in here, hysterical. blood. i didn't mean to--- flan and ouisa no!
speaker3: tell us about our children.
speaker4: flan

speaker1: how harvard? 
speaker2: well, fine. it's just there. everyone's in a constant state of luxurious despair and constant discovery and paralysis.

speaker1: we asked him where home was 
speaker2: out west, he said.

speaker1: he's in the movies? 
speaker2: he's directing this one but he does act.
speaker3: what's he directing?
speaker2: cats.
speaker1: someone is directing a film of cats?
speaker3: don't be snooty.
speaker2: you've'seen it? t.s. eliot--
speaker3: well, yes. years ago.
speaker1: a benefit for some disease or school---
speaker3: surely they can't make the movie of cats.
speaker1: of course they can.
speaker2: they're going to try. my father'll be here

speaker1: cats? 
speaker2: he's going to use people.
speaker1: what a courageous stand!
speaker2: they thought of lots of ways to go. animation.
speaker3: animation would be nice.

speaker1: but he found a better way. as a matter of fact, he turned it down at first. he went to tell the producers - as a courtesy - all the reasons why you couldn't make a movie of cats and in going through all the reasons why you couldn't make a movie of cats, he suddenly saw how you could make a movie of cats -- 
speaker2: eureka in the bathtub. how wonderful.
speaker3: may we ask who --

speaker1: and it was here we pulled up - ever so slightly - pulled up closer-- 
speaker2: and he told us.
speaker1: he named the greatest black star in movies.

speaker1: don't say it. we're trying to keep this abstract. plus libel laws. 
speaker2: sidney poitiers there. i don't care. we have to have truth. he started out as a lawyer and is terrified of libel. i'm not.

speaker1: dad's not in till tomorrow at the sherry. i came down from cambridge. thought i'd stay at some fleabag for adventure. orwell. down and out. i really don't know new york. i know rome and paris and los angeles a lot better. 
speaker2: we're-going out to dinner. you'll come.
speaker1: out to dinner?
speaker3: out to dinner.
speaker1: but why go out to dinner?
speaker2: because we have reservations and oh my god'what time is it? have we lost the reservations and we don't have a thing in the house and it's sixteenth century florence and there's genius on every block.
speaker4: don't mock.
speaker1: you must have something in the fridge.
speaker3: a frozen steak from the ice age.
speaker1: why spend a hundred dollars on a bowl of rice? let me into the kitchen. cooking calms me. what i'd like to do is calm down, pay back your kids-

speaker1: he mentioned our kids names-- 
speaker2: flan turns to a newcomer.
speaker3: two. two at harvard. a daughter at groton.

speaker1: - who've been wonderful to me. 
speaker2: they've never mentioned you.
speaker3: what are they supposed to say? we've become friends with the son of sidney poitier, barrier breaker of the fifties and sixties?
speaker4: your father means a great deal in south africa.

speaker1: i'm glad of that. dad and i went to russia once to a film festival and he was truly amazed how much his presence meant - 
speaker2: oh no! tell us stories of movie stars tying up their children and being cruel.
speaker1: i wish.
speaker3: you wish?
speaker1: if i wanted to write a book about him. i really can't. no one would want to read it. he's decent. i admire him.
speaker2: he's married to an actress who was in one of-- she's white? am i right?
speaker4: paul that is not my mother. that is his second wife. he met joanna making "the lost man". he left my mother who had stuck by him in the lean years. x had just been born. "the lost man" is the only film of my father's i can't bring myself to see.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry. we didn't mean to -

speaker1: it's geoffrey's only night in new york. 
speaker2: i vote - stay in. ouisa, flan and paul good!

speaker1: we watched him cook. 
speaker2: we watched him cook and chop.
speaker1: he sort of did wizardry
speaker2: an old jar of sun dried tomatoes--

speaker1: johannesburg. 
speaker2: my dad took me to a movie shot in south africa. the camera moved from this vile rioting in the streets to a villa where people picked at lunch on a terrace, the only riot the flowers and the birds-- gorgeous plumage and petals. and i didn't understand. and dad said to me "you meet these young blacks who are having a terrible time. they've had a totally inadequate education and yet in '76 - the year of the soweto riots - they took on a tremendous political responsibility. it just makes you wonder at the maturity that is in them."
speaker2: it makes you realize that the 'crummy childhood' theory, that everything can be blamed in a freudian fashion on the fact that you've had a bad upbringing, just doesn't hold water. may i?
speaker3: oh, please.

speaker1: what about being black in america? 
speaker2: my problem is i've never felt american. i grew up in switzerland. boarding school.
speaker3: there is a boarding school in switzerland that takes you at age eighteen months.
speaker2: that's not me. i've never felt people liked me for my connections. movie star kid problems. none of those. the water boils. he dumps in pasta.
speaker2: but i never knew i was black in that racist way 0 till i was sixteen and came back here. very protected. white servants. after the divorce we moved to switzerland. my mother, brother and z. i don't feel american. i don't even feel black. i suppose that's very lucky for me even though freud says there's no such thing as luck. just what you make.
speaker3: does freud say that?
speaker2: here's dinner. all ready.
speaker3: shall we move into the dining room?

speaker1: this room has not been in use for a while. 
speaker2: don't look at the sewing machine.
speaker3: is everything okay? flan, ouisa and geoffrey mmrmmm .. yes.
speaker4: this is the best pasta i've ever -
speaker2: the best!
speaker3: my father insisted we learn to cook.
speaker5: isn't he from jamaica? there's a taste of--
speaker4: the islands.
speaker3: yes. before he made it, he ran four restaurants in harlem. you have good buds!
speaker4: see? good buds. i've never been complimented on my buds-

speaker1: i am astonished! 
speaker2: paul leans back and watches them happily.
speaker3: where's yours?
speaker4: the cook never eats.
speaker1: the more for us! they all laugh. paul leaves the room abruptly. flan, ouisa and geoffrey look at each other.
speaker1: hello?
speaker4: seconds?
speaker3: have you declared your major yet?
speaker4: you're like all parents. what's your major?
speaker1: geoffrey, harvard has all those great titles the students give courses.
speaker3: the holocaust and ethics?
speaker1: krauts and doubts.
speaker3: i think we're lucky having this dinner. isn't this the finest time? a toast to you.
speaker5: to cats!
speaker1: blunt question. what's he like?
speaker6: ouisa reaches for the bottle of wine.
speaker3: let's not be star
speaker1: i'm not a star
speaker4: my father, being an actor, has no real identity. you say to him, pop, what's new? and he says, 'i got an interesting script today. i was asked to play a lumberjack up in the yukon. now, i've been trained as a preacher, but my church fell apart. my wife says we have to get mbney to get through this winter. and i sign up as part of this team where all my beliefs are challenged. but i hold firm. in spite of prejudice because i want to get back to my wife. out of this forest,back to the church... .' and my father is in tears and i say pop, this i:. not a real event, this is some script that was sent to you. and my father says ' i' m trying it out to see how it fits on me.' but he has no life--he has no memory--only the scripts producers send him in the mail through his agents. that's his past.

speaker1: i just loved the kid so much. i wanted to reach out to him. 
speaker2: and then we asked him what his thesis was on.

speaker1: well... 
speaker2: a substitute teacher out on long island was dropped from his job for fighting with a student. a few weeks later, the teacher returned to the classroom, shot the student
speaker3: i haven't read it in years.
speaker1: i borrowed a copy from a young friend of mine because i wanted to see what she had underlined and i read this book to find out why this touching, beautiful, sensitive story published in july 1951 had turned into this manifesto of hate. i started reading. : it's exactly as i remembered. everybody's a phoney. page two: "my brother's in hollywood being a prostitute." page three: "what a phony slob his father was." page nine: "people never notice anything." then on page twenty two my hair stood up. remember holden caulfield--the definitive sensitive youth--wearing his red hunter's cap. "a deer hunter hat? like it is. i sort of closed one eye like i was taking aim at it. this is a people shooting hat. i shoot people in this hat."

speaker1: hmmm, i said. this book is preparing people for bigger moments in their lives than i ever dreamed of. then on p. 89 "i'd rather push a guy out the window or chop his head off with an ax than sock him in the jaw. i hate fist fights...what scares me most is the other guy's face..." i finished the book. it's a touching story, comic because the boy wants to do so much and can't do anything. hates all phoniness and only lies to others. wants everyone to like him, is only hateful, and is completely self involved. in other words, a pretty accurate picture of a male adolescent. flan, ouisa, .geoffrey are transfixed. and what alarms me about that book--not the book so much as the aura about it--is this: the book is primarily about paralysis. the boy can't function. and at the end before he can run away and start a new life, it starts to rain and he folds. now there's nothing wrong in writing about emotional and intellectual paralysis. it may indeed thanks to chekhov and samuel beckett be the great modern theme. the extraordinary last lines of waiting for godot--"let's go." "yes, let's go." stage directions: they do not move. but the aura around this book of salinger's-- which perhaps should be read by everyone ut young men---is this: it mirrors like a fun house mirror and amplifies like a distorted speaker one of the great tragedies of our times- --the death of the imagination. because what else is paralysis? the camera moves closer and closer in on paul. 
speaker2: the imagination has been so debased that

speaker1: flan, geoffrey, ouisa are very moved. 
speaker2: well, indeed.
speaker3: i hope your muggers read every word.
speaker4: ouisa

speaker1: i'm going to buy a copy of catcher i. the rye at the airport and read it. 
speaker2: cover to cover
speaker3: i'll test you. i should be going. paul starts to go. they follow.

speaker1: where will you stay? 
speaker2: not some flea bag.
speaker3: i get into the sherry tomorrow morning. it's not so far off. i can walk around. i don't think they'll mug me twice in one evening.

speaker1: you'll stay here tonight. 
speaker2: no! i have to be at the hotel at seven am sharp!
speaker1: we'll get you up.
speaker2: or dad will have a fit.
speaker3: up at six fifteen which is any moment now and we have that wedding in millbrook-

speaker1: there's an alarm by the bed 
speaker2: your feet might hang out over the end
speaker3: if it's any problem--
speaker1: it's only a problem if you leave.
speaker3: six fifteen? i'll tip toe out.
speaker1: and we want to be in cats.

speaker1: it's done. 
speaker2: i'll fly back. with my wife.
speaker3: pushy. both of you.
speaker1: he's not. dad said i could be in charge of the extras. you'd just be extras. that's all i can promise.
speaker4: in cat suits?
speaker1: no. you can be humans.
speaker5: that's very important. it has to be in our contracts. we are humans.
speaker6: they all return down

speaker1: we haven't got any business done tonight. 
speaker2: forget it. it was only an evening at home.
speaker3: whatever you do, don't think about elephants. geoffrey puts on his overcoat.
speaker4: did i intrude? flan and ouisa no!
speaker4: i'm sorry - oh christ - geoffrey

speaker1: let me clean up - 
speaker2: ouisa follows.
speaker3: hal leave it for -
speaker4: nobody comes in on sunday.
speaker3: yvonne will be in on tuesday.
speaker4: you'll have every bug in christendom -
speaker3: let me - paul takes the dishes.
speaker4: no. you watch. it gives me a thrill to be looked at.

speaker1: he's in. 
speaker2: he's in?
speaker1: he's in for two million.

speaker1: two million! 
speaker2: he says the cezanne is a great inv1stment. we should get it for six million and sell it to the tokyo bunch for ten.
speaker1: happy days! oh
speaker3: two million dollars?
speaker4: flan picks up the slide carousel and kisses it.
speaker2: figure it out. he doesn't have the price of -a dinner but he can cough up two million dollars and the japs will go ten! paul and ouisa come into the living room.
speaker3: go to ten? ten million?
speaker1: break all those dishes! two million! go to ten! and we put up nothing?
speaker3: nothing?
speaker2: geoffrey sold that hockney print i know he
speaker3: your kids said you were an art dealer. but you don't have a gallery. i don't understand -

speaker1: people want to sell privately. 
speaker2: a modern.. impressionist. renaissance.
speaker1: but don't want museums to know where it is.
speaker2: japanese.
speaker3: flan flicks on his computer.
speaker1: i've got japanese looking for a cezanne. i have a syndicate that will buy the painting. there is this great second level cezanne coming up for sale in a very messy divorce. flan holds up the slide.
speaker2: wife doesn't want hubby to know she owns a cezanne. paul looks at the slide.
speaker1: i needed an extra two million. geoffrey called. invited him here for dinner.
speaker2: tonight was a very nervous very casual very big thing.
speaker4: i couldn't tell -

speaker1: all the better. 0 
speaker2: paul follows flan and ouisa into their bedroom.
speaker3: i'm glad i helped -
speaker1: you were wonderful!
speaker3: i'm so pleased i was wonderful.
speaker1: keep it. look at the time.
speaker3: it's going to be time for me to get up.
speaker4: then we'll say our good nights now.
speaker3: oh christ. regretfully. i4l1 tip toe.

speaker1: take fifty dollars. 
speaker2: give him fifty dollars.
speaker3: don't need it.

speaker1: suppose your father's plane is late? 
speaker2: a strike. air controllers.
speaker1: walking around money. i wouldn't want my kids to be stuck in the street without a nickel. paul sits on the bed and takes off his shoes.
speaker2: and you saved us a fortune. do you know what our bill would've been at that little eye-tie store front?
speaker1: and we picked up two million dollars. one billionth of a percent commission is -
speaker2: fifty dollars.
speaker3: but i'll get it back to you tomorrow. i want my father to meet you.
speaker1: we'd love to. bring him up for dinner.
speaker3: could i?
speaker2: you see how easy it is.
speaker1: sure. if paul does the cooking. flan, ouisa and paul laugh.
speaker1: goodnight.

speaker1: i want to get on my knees and thank -money- 
speaker2: who said when artists dream they dream of money? i must be such an artist. bravo. bravo. flan putting on pajamas, ouisa her nightgown.
speaker1: i don't want to lose our life here. i don't want all the debt to pile up and crush us.
speaker2: it won't. we're safe. ouisa in bed turns off the light.
speaker1: for a while. we almost lost it. if i didn't get this money,. ouis, i would've lost the cezanne. it would've gone. i had nowhere to get it. ouisa gets out of bed and comes to flan.
speaker2: why don't you tell me how much these things mean? you wait till the last minute - ouisa and flan get into bed.
speaker1: i don't want to worry you.
speaker2: not worry me? i'm your partner.
speaker1: there is a
speaker2: and his name- is --

speaker1: geoffrey? 
speaker2: sidney.

speaker1: and you can get all that into cats? 
speaker2: i'm going to try.
speaker1: thank you. thank you. you shall.
speaker3: this is what i dreamt. i didn't dream so much as realize this. i felt so close to the paintings. i wasn't just selling like pieces of meat. i remembered why i loved paintings in the first place - what had got me into this - and i thought - dreamed - remembered-

speaker1: why are all your students geniuses in the second grade? look at the first grade. blotches of green and black. look at third grade. camouflage. but the second grade --your grade. matisses everyone. you've made my child a matisse. let me study with you. let me into the second grade! what is your secret? 
speaker2: secret? i don't have any secret. i just know when to take their drawings away from them.

speaker1: the chums hang on ouisa's every word. 
speaker2: i sat in the kitchen happily doing the cross word puzzle in ink. everybody does it in ink. i never. met one person who didn't say they did it in ink.

speaker1: the hall is eighteen feet long. 
speaker2: i stopped in front of the door.
speaker2: paul?
speaker2: paul??

speaker1: she turns on the light. she screams. 
speaker2: what the is going on here. who the are you?!
speaker3: flan!!
speaker4: ouisa shakes flan violently. flan comes to.
speaker5: what is it?!

speaker1: hey! how ya doin'? nice stuff. 
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: hey. i got to get some sleep--
speaker3: stop it! he might have a gun!
speaker4: hustler
speaker3: he has a gun! he has a knife!
speaker5: i can explain.
speaker3: you went out after we went to sleep and picked up this thing?
speaker2: you brought this thing into our house! thing! thing! get out! get out of my house!
speaker6: hey! be careful of the pants!
speaker2: take your clothes. go back to sleep in the gutter.
speaker7: flan pushes the elevator button.
speaker1: you!

speaker1: please. don't tell my father. i don't want him to know. i haven't told him. i got. so lonely. i got so afraid. my dad coming. i had the money. i went out after we went to sleep and i brought him back. you had so much. i couldn't be alone. i was so afraid. i am so sorry. 
speaker2: just go.
speaker3: is everything all right?
speaker4: make sure they go out!
speaker1: i can explain!
speaker4: give me my fifty dollars.
speaker1: i spent it.
speaker2: get out!
speaker1: i'm so sorry.
speaker4: make sure they leave. by the back door.

speaker1: and that's that. 
speaker2: well, it's not
speaker3: flan and ouisa survey the living room.
speaker2: i am shaking.
speaker1: you have to do something.
speaker2: it's awful.
speaker1: is anything gone?
speaker2: how can i look? i'm shaking.
speaker1: did he take anything?
speaker2: would you concentrate on yourself?
speaker1: i want to know if anything's gone?
speaker2: calm down.
speaker1: we could have been killed.
speaker2: the silver victorian inkwell.
speaker1: how can you think of things? we could have been murdered.
speaker2: there's the inkwell. silver beaver. why?

speaker1: slashed ---our throats slashed. 
speaker2: and there's the watercolor. our dog.
speaker1: go to bed at night happy and then murdered. would we have woken up?
speaker2: we're alive.
speaker1: don't pick it up!
speaker2: hello?

speaker1: flanders. look, i've been thinking. those japs really want the cezanne. they'll pay. you can depend on me for an additional overcall of two fifty. 
speaker2: flan's rind is boggled.
speaker3: two hundred and fifty thousand?

speaker1: never dropping one beat on his radio phone. 
speaker2: and i was thinking for south africa. what about a black american film festival? with this spike lee you have now and of course get poitier down to be the president of the jury and i know cosby and i love this eddie murphy and my wife went fishing in norway with diana ross and her new norwegian husband. and also they must have some

speaker1: yes. it sounds a wonderful idea. 
speaker2: geoffrey walks through the terminal.
speaker3: i'll call poitier at the sherry --

speaker1: flan and ouisa look at each other in amazement. 
speaker2: we're safe?

speaker1: and then? 
speaker2: and then?

speaker1: do we have a story to tell you! 
speaker2: do we have a story to tell you!
speaker3: we cannot tell where we are yet.
speaker1: our two and their son are at harvard together. kitty and larkin are pleased about this.

speaker1: when did your story happen? 
speaker2: last night. we are still zonked.
speaker3: we win. our story happened friday night. so we go first.
speaker1: we're going to be in the movies.
speaker3: we are going to be in the movie of cats. ouisa puts down her white wine.
speaker4: you tell your story first.
speaker1: friday night we were home, the doorbell rang---
speaker3: i am not impressed but it was the son of -
speaker5: the detective makes notes. ouisa and flan you got it.

speaker1: the kid was mugged. we had to go out. we left him. he was so charming. his father was taking the red eye. he couldn't get into the hotel till seven an. he stayed with us. she is very pleased. 
speaker2: in the middle of the night, we heard somebody screaming burglar! burglar! we came out in the hall. paul is chasing this naked blonde thief down the corridor. the blonde thief runs out, the alarm goes off. the kid saved our lives.

speaker1: that was no burglar. 
speaker2: you had another house guest.
speaker3: we feel so guilty. paul could've been killed by that intruder. he was very understanding -
speaker2: was anything missing from your house?
speaker3: nothing.
speaker1: did you give him money?
speaker4: twenty-five dollars until his father arrived.
speaker5: the detective looks at them carefully. flan we told them our story.

speaker1: oh. 
speaker2: have you talked to your kids?
speaker3: can't get through.
speaker4: let's go back to our place.

speaker1: no! i'm not a fan. this is not a fan call. sidney poitier must be registered. his son is a friend of- click. the sherry's hung up. the doorbell rings. flan goes to the door. 
speaker2: he must be there under another name.
speaker1: hi. celebrity service? i'm not sure how you work.
speaker3: greta garbo used the name harriet brown.
speaker1: you track down celebrities? am i right?
speaker2: everybody must have known she was greta garbo.
speaker1: i'm trying to find out how one would get in touch with---no, i'm not a press agent--no, i'm not with anyone---my husband. flanders kittredge?

speaker1: try the public library. 
speaker2: try who's who.

speaker1: "to thank you for a wonderful time. paul poitier.'" 
speaker1: a pot of jam?
speaker2: a pot of jam.
speaker3: i think we should go to the police.

speaker1: what are the charges? 
speaker2: he came into our house.
speaker3: he cooked us dinner.
speaker2: he told us the story of catcher in the rye.
speaker3: he said he was the son of sidney poitier.
speaker1: sidney poitier? flan and ouisa you got it.
speaker1: was he?
speaker2: we don't know.

speaker1: we gave him fifty dollars. 
speaker2: we gave him twenty five.

speaker1: he picked up a hustler. 
speaker2: he left.
speaker3: he chased the burglar out of our house.
speaker1: he didn't steal anything.
speaker4: we looked and looked.
speaker3: top to bottom. nothing gone.
speaker1: granted this does not seem major now.
speaker5: look. we're very busy.
speaker2: you can't chuck us out.
speaker5: come up with charges. then i'll do something.

speaker1: yes, there is another chapter. 
speaker2: our kids came down from harvard. a

speaker1: --the details he knew--how would he know about the painting? 
speaker1: although i think it's a very fine kandinsky.
speaker2: and none of you knows this fellow? he has this wild quality--yet, a real elegance and a real concern and a real consideration. tess looks at the floral arrangement paul sent. it's only slightly wilted.
speaker3: well, mom, you should have let him stay. you should have divorced all your children and just let this dreamboat stay. plus he sent you flowers.
speaker1: and jam .
speaker4: oooooo.
speaker2: i wish i knew how to get hold of his father. just to see if there is any truth in it.

speaker1: who knows sidney poitier so we could just call him up and ask him? 
speaker2: i have a friend who does theatrical law. i bet he -
speaker1: what friend? kitty oh, it's nobody.
speaker1: i want to know.
speaker2: nobody!
speaker1: whatever's going on anywhere, i do not want to know. i don't want to know.
speaker2: nobody. nobody. nobody.
speaker3: dad. mom. please. for once. please?

speaker1: tess, when you see your little sister, don't tell her that paul and the hustler used her bed. 
speaker2: you put him in that bed. i'm not going to get involved with any conspiracy.
speaker1: it's not a conspiracy. it's a family.

speaker1: the alaskan husky barks at the moon. 
speaker2: flan and ouisa are in bed asleep.
speaker3: the imagination. that's our out. our

speaker1: the string quartet reaches a climax. 
speaker2: and a new character entered our story

speaker1: flan and ouisa and kitty and larkin he's making a movie of cats. 
speaker2: and he told me the name of a matinee idol of my youth. somebody who had really forged ahead and made new paths for blacks just by the strength of-his own talent. strangely, i had identified with him, before i started medical school. i mean, i'm a jew. my grandparents were killed in the war. i had this sense of self-hatred, of fear. and this kid's father - the bravery of his films - had given me a direction, a confidence. simple as that. we're always paying off debts. then my beeper went off. a patient in her tenth month of labor. her water finally broke. i gave'him the keys.

speaker1: doug's told me all about your brownstone. how you got it at a great price because there had been a murder in it and for a while people thought it had a curse but you were a scientific man and were courageous! 
speaker2: well, yes! courageous!
speaker3: fla.n and ouisa, kitty and larkin agree.
speaker4: very courageous.
speaker2: i ran off to the delivery room. twins! two boys. i thought of my son. i dialed my boy at dartmouth. amazingly, he was in his room. doing y hat i hate to ask.

speaker1: they hear a debussy quartet playing. 
speaker2: arrest him! dr. fine snaps off the radio.
speaker3: pardon?
speaker2: breaking and entering.
speaker3: breaking and entering?
speaker2: you're an imposter.
speaker3: officer, your honor, your eminence, dr. fine cave me the keys to his brownstone. isn't that so?
speaker2: my son doesn't know you.
speaker3: this man gave me the keys to the house. isn't that so?
speaker4: did you give him the key to the house?
speaker2: yes, but under false pretenses. this black kid crack addict comes into my office

speaker1: paul 
speaker2: i want you to arrest this fraud.
speaker2: stop him!
speaker3: doug continues his tirade.
speaker4: a cretin! a creep! no wonder mother left you! doug flings the phone against the wall.

speaker1: we went down to the strand - 
speaker2: five sherlock holmeses-

speaker1: "back in new york with juanita and the children, i began to become aware that our marriage, while working on some levels, was falling apart in other fundamental areas." flan takes the book. 
speaker2: there's a picture of him and his four- daughters. no sons. four daughters.

speaker1: the book's called this life. 
speaker2: no sons?
speaker3: no sons!

speaker1: oh dear. 
speaker2: this kid bulldozing his way into our lives.

speaker1: agatha christie would ask what do we all have in common? 
speaker2: it seems the common thread linking us all is an overwhelming need to be in the movie of cats.
speaker3: our kids. struggling through their lives.
speaker4: i don't want to know anything about the spillover of their lives.
speaker2: all we have in common is our children went to boarding school together. flan how come we never met?
speaker5: his mother had custody. i lived out west. after he graduated from high school, she moved west. i moved east.
speaker4: i think we should drop it right here.
speaker3: are you afraid ben is mixed up in this fraud?
speaker4: i don't want to know too much about my kid.
speaker3: you think ben is hiding things from us? i tell you, i'm getting to the bottom of this. my son has no involvements with any black frauds. doctor, you said something about crack?

speaker1: i don't want to know. 
speaker2: it just leaped out of my mouth.
speaker3: we'll take a vote. do we pursue this to the end no matter what we find out about our kids?
speaker4: i vote yes.
speaker2: i trust doug. yes.
speaker1: no.
speaker5: yes.
speaker3: yes.
speaker5: listen to the last page. ".. .making it better for our children. protecting them. from what? the truth is what we were protecting those little people from... there is a lot to worry about and i'd better start telling the little - start worrying!" the end. kitty closes the book in dismay.

speaker1: we all went up to harvard. 
speaker2: we had to enlist our children -

speaker1: the five parents sit in the empty dining commons. they've come for lunch. and now lunch is over. 
speaker2: it's obvious. it's somebody you went to high school with, since you go to different colleges.
speaker3: i just want to tell you how i appreciate your coming today -
speaker4: dad? spare me?
speaker5: he knows the details about our lives.
speaker2: who in your high school, part of your gang, has become homosexual or is deep into drugs?
speaker6: that's like about fifteen people.
speaker7: i don't want to know.
speaker6: i find it really insulting that you would assume that it has to be a guy. this movie star's son could have had a relationship with a girl in

speaker1: that's your problem in a nut shell. you're so limited. 
speaker2: that's why i'm going to afghanistan.
speaker3: you are not climbing mountains.
speaker4: we have not invested all this money in you to scale the face of k-2.
speaker2: is that all i am? an investment?
speaker3: all right. track down everybody in your high school class. male. female. whatever. not just homosexuals. drug addicts. the kid might be a drug dealer. doug throws back his chair.
speaker5: why do you look at me when you say that? do you think i'm an addict? a drug pusher? i really resent the accusations.
speaker6: no one is accusing you of anything. sit down. larkin gets up and paces around the table.
speaker7: i don't want to know. i don't want to know. i don't want to know.
speaker4: nobody is accusing anyone of anything.

speaker1: he promised you parts in cats? 
speaker2: it wasn't just that. it was fun.
speaker3: you went to cats. you said it was an all time low in a lifetime of theater going. ouisa considers.
speaker2: film is a different medium.
speaker3: you said aeschylus did not invent theater to have it end up a bunch of chorus kids wondering which of them will go to kitty kat heaven.
speaker2: i don't remember saying that.
speaker4: no, i think that was starlight express -
speaker3: well, maybe he'll make a movie of starlight express and you can all be on roller skates! the kids stand up.
speaker5: this is so humiliating.
speaker1: this is so pathetic.
speaker3: this is so racist.
speaker2: this is not racist!
speaker6: their parents run ahead trying to circle them.

speaker1: how can i get in touch with anybody in high school? i've outgrown them. 
speaker2: now can you outgrow them? you graduated a year ago!

speaker1: here is a copy of your yearbook. i want you to get the phone numbers of everybody in your class. you all went to the same boarding school. 
speaker2: you can charge it to my phone.
speaker1: call everyone in your class and ask them if they know--
speaker3: never!
speaker4: this is the kgb.
speaker2: you're on the phone all the time. now i ask you to make calls all over the country and you become reticent.
speaker4: this is the entire mccarthy period. woody saunters up to his parents. he is very cool.
speaker5: i just want to get one thing straight.

speaker1: finally, we hear from the peanut gallery. 
speaker2: you gave him my pink shirt? you gave a complete stranger my pink shirt? that pink shirt was a christmas present from you. i treasured that shirt. i loved that shirt. my collar size has grown a full size from weight lifting. and you saw my arms had grown, you saw my neck had grown. and you bought me that shirt for my new body. i loved that shirt. the first shirt for my new body. and you gave that shirt away. i can't believe it. i hate this life. i hate you.

speaker1: you never do anything for me. 
speaker2: you've never done anything but tried to block me.
speaker3: i'm only this pathetic extension of your eighth rate personality.
speaker1: social darwinism pushed beyond all limits.
speaker4: you gave away my pink shirt?
speaker2: you want me to be everything you weren't.
speaker1: you said drugs and looked at me.

speaker1: pages of a yearbook turning. the pages stop. 
speaker2: trent conway. -

speaker1: trent conway. 
speaker2: look at those beady eyes staring out at me.
speaker3: trent conway.
speaker4: he's at mit.

speaker1: so i went to mit. he was there in his computer room and i just pressed him and pressed him and pressed him. i had this strapped to me. tess puts a small tape recorder on the desk. tess turns it on. ouisa listens to the tape. 
speaker2: yes, i knew paul.

speaker1: but what happened between you? 
speaker2: it was...it was...

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: my address book.
speaker1: all these names. addresses. tell me about these people.
speaker2: this is where i wanted you to be... right here...

speaker1: tell me about these people, man! 
speaker2: i just want to look at you. sorry.
speaker1: are these all rich people?
speaker2: no. hand to mouth on a higher plateau.

speaker1: i think it must be very hard to be with rich people. you have to have money. you have to give them presents. 
speaker2: not at all. rich people do something nice for you, you give them a pot of jam.
speaker1: that's what pots of jam are for?
speaker2: orange. grapefruit. strawberry. but fancy. they have entire stores filled with fancy pots of jam wrapped in cloth. english. or french.
speaker1: i'll tell you what i'll do. i pick a name. you tell me about them. where they live. secrets. and for each name you get a piece of clothing.
speaker2: all right.

speaker1: plunging into the address book. 
speaker2: kittredge. talbot and woodrow.
speaker3: talbot called tess was anorexic and was in a hospital for a while. paul takes off a shoe and kicks it to trent.

speaker1: ouisa and flan for flanders kittredge. rhode island i believe. newport but not along the ocean. the street behind the ocean. he's an art dealer. they have a kandinsky. 
speaker2: a kan--what- ski?
speaker1: kandinsky. a double-sided kandinsky.

speaker1: trent catches paul's sneaker joyously. 
speaker2: i feel like scheherazade! trent embraces paul with fierce tenderness. maybe trent had one happy day and this is it.

speaker1: i don't want you to leave me, paul. i'll go through my address book and tell you about 
speaker2: that's enough for today.
speaker3: 40 ouisa brushes tess's hair as they listen.
speaker4: paul stayed with me for three months.
speaker5: paul leans against the white wall. paul frowns, then smiles.
speaker1: this is the way you must speak. hear my accent. hear my voice. never say you're going horse back riding. you say you're going riding. and don't say couch. say sofa. and you say bodd-ill. it's bottle. say bottle of beer.
speaker2: bodd-ill a bee-ya.
speaker1: bottle of beer.

speaker1: we went through the address book letter by letter. paul vanished by the l's. he took the address book with him. well, he's already been in all your houses. maybe i will meet him again. i sure would like to. 
speaker2: his past? his real name?
speaker1: i don't know anything about him. it was a rainy night in boston.
speaker2: he took stuff from you?
speaker1: besides the address book? he took my stereo and sport jacket and my word processor and my laser printer. and my skis. and my tv.
speaker2: will you press charges?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: it's a felony.

speaker1: won't you press charges? 
speaker2: please.

speaker1: paul learned all that in three months! 
speaker2: three months?
speaker3: three months!
speaker1: who would have thought it? trent conway, the henry higgins of our time.

speaker1: boy meets girl. boy loses girl. 
speaker2: paul must have looked at all those

speaker1: ouisa looks out the window down into the park. 
speaker2: the husky bays up at the moon.
speaker3: the curtain comes down on act one of tosca. applause.
speaker4: no. no news.
speaker5: he just vanished.
speaker4: nothing. all quiet. thank
speaker6: everyone is very cheery.
speaker5: yes! we are going to rome. connie gives ouisa a card with a name on it. ouisa reads the card and passes it to flan.
speaker5: no! i don't know them.
speaker4: always wanted to meet them! of course we'l1 call. as soon as we get to rome! what fun!

speaker1: the sistine chapel like this! 
speaker2: to stand at the very top on scaffolding!
speaker2: we were at the opera and ran into them and they gave us your address!
speaker1: this is staggering!

speaker1: they restored it after all these years - 
speaker2: scraped all this paint off it
speaker1: and years of smoke and tourists and it's brand new!

speaker1: the colors are vibrant! 
speaker2: flan went for business but for me it was -

speaker1: no. it's not important - 
speaker2: you must!
speaker3: well, the day we got back from rome -
speaker1: we stepped out of the taxi from the airport and
speaker4: flan steps out of the cab first.
speaker3: our doorman whom we tip very well at christmas and any time he does something nice for us-- our doorman spits at my husband, j. flanders kittredge. i mean, spit at him!

speaker1: the crowd gasps. 
speaker2: darling, they don't have to know every detail.
speaker3: ouisa is afraid to come out of the cab.
speaker4: your son! i know all about your son.
speaker2: what about my son?
speaker4: not the little who lives here. the other son. the secret son. the son you deny.
speaker2: the son?
speaker4: the black son you make live in central park while you're gallivanting around rome. the doorman spits at flan again.
speaker1: the japanese hostess is interested.
speaker5: you have a black son?
speaker2: no! the cops brought this young girl to us!
speaker6: the cops called us up and we went down to the precinct again!
speaker7: the detective sits on the edge of his desk.
speaker8: elizabeth i want him dead. that's all i want.
speaker1: ouisa leans forward at the dinner table.
speaker6: the next chapter.

speaker1: and we met this guy and started singing and talking. 
speaker2: i was hallucinating from not eating-
speaker1: if i told people back home that new york had trees and picnics, they'd swear i was lying. i love new york so much. look at it! i can't get over it.
speaker3: we're here from utah.
speaker2: do they have any black people in utah?
speaker3: maybe two.

speaker1: i saw them once. two black people. 
speaker2: yes, the mormons brought in two.
speaker1: we came here to be actors.
speaker2: she won the all-state competition for comedy and drama.
speaker3: my gosh!
speaker1: "the quality of mercy is not strained.
speaker2: and we study and we wait tables.
speaker1: because you have to have technique.
speaker3: like the painters. cezanne looked for the rules behind the spontaneity of impressionism.
speaker2: cez - that's a painter?
speaker1: we don't know anything about painting.
speaker3: my dad loves painting. he has a kandinsky but he loves cezanne the most. he lives up there.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: he lives up there. count six windows over. 
speaker2: your brothers and sisters?

speaker1: he'll see you if he is that good. he can't forget you entirely. 
speaker2: i call him. he hangs up.
speaker3: go to his office -
speaker2: he doesn't have an office. he works out of there. they won't even let me in the elevator.
speaker3: dress up as a messenger.
speaker1: say you have a masterpiece for him.

speaker1: i don't want to embarrass him. look, this is so tacky. 
speaker1: you love each other? a
speaker2: a lot. rick and elizabeth touch each other's hands. paul i hope we can meet again.
speaker3: where do you live?
speaker1: live? i'm,home.
speaker2: you're not out on the streets?
speaker1: you're such assholes. where would i live? paul shrugs his shoulders and leaves.
speaker3: stay with us.
speaker2: we just have a railroad flat in a tenement --
speaker3: it's over a roller disco. the last of the roller discos but it's quiet by five am and a great narrow space -

speaker1: elizabeth composes herself. 
speaker2: he stayed for a few weeks. he taught us so much. we even thought he was the reason for coming to new york. he opened up a new world for us. that's all anybody wants, isn't it? a new world?
speaker3: rick and elizabeth listen intently to paul.
speaker4: this is the way you must speak. hear my accent. hear my voice. never say you're going horse back riding. you say you're going riding. and don't say couch. say sofa. and you say bodd-ill.
speaker5: bodd-ill a bee-ya.
speaker6: elizabeth pokes around in the refrigerator.
speaker2: hello. . _
speaker4: bottle of beer. and never be afraid of rich people. you know what they love? a fancy pot of jam. that's all. get yourself a patron. that's what you need. you shouldn't be waiting tables. you're going to wake up one day and the temporary job you picked up to stay alive is going to be your full time life.

speaker1: i'll tell you all the parts i want to play. vanya in uncle vanya. 
speaker2: masha in three sisters.
speaker1: i'd like a -

speaker1: i'd like a shot at - 
speaker2: then masha who loves.
speaker1: i'd like a shot -
speaker2: then the oldest one, olga, who never knows love! rick'waits to see that elizabeth is through, then:
speaker1: i'd like a shot at laertes. i think it's a much better part.
speaker2: do you think it'll hurt me?
speaker1: what'll hurt you?
speaker2: my resemblance to liv ullmann.
speaker3: he wrote me! i wrote him and he _ wrote me back! he's going to give me a thousand dollars! and that's just for starters! he sold a cezanne to the japanese and made millions and he can give me money without her knowing it.
speaker2: i knew it!
speaker3: i'm moving out of here!

speaker1: you can't! 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: but i am going to give you the money to put on a showcase of any play you want and you'll be in it and agents will come see you and you'll be seen and you'll be started. and when you win your oscars - both of you - you'll look in the camera and thank me -
speaker1: i want to thank paul kittredge.
speaker2: thanks, paul!
speaker3: one hitch. i'm going to meet him in maine. he's up there visiting his parents in dark harbor. my grandparents whom i've never met. he's finally going to tell my grandparents about me. he's going to make up for lost time. he's going to give me money. i can go back home. get my momma that beauty parlor she's wanted all her life. one problem. how am i going to get to maine? the wife checks all the bills. he has to account for the money. she handles the purse strings. where the am i going to get two hundred and fifty dollars to get to maine?
speaker1: how long would you need it for?
speaker3: i'll be gone a week. but i could wire it back to you.

speaker1: we could lend it to him for a week. 
speaker2: we can't. if something happens -
speaker1: you're like his stepmother. these women holding on to all the purse strings.
speaker2: no. we worked too hard to save that. paul comes out of the john.
speaker2: paul. i'm sorry. we just can't.
speaker3: look. no problem. i understand.
speaker2: i'll meet you both after work. if your father loves you, he'll get you the ticket up there.
speaker3: he does. it'll work out. hey. posture. stand up straight. don't slump. attitudes of defeat.

speaker1: let somebody else in here. 
speaker2: an hysterical elizabeth goes into
speaker3: frank, the doorman, is having a snooze.
speaker4: - people named kittredge. this kittredge guy has a black son he makes live in the park -
speaker5: mr. kittredge has what?
speaker4: his black son took money from me -
speaker5: you have to be quiet
speaker4: i want to get up to see them!
speaker5: you'll have to call or write a letter -
speaker4: they owe me money!

speaker1: i'm here trying to get to meet people. i am stranded. who do i know to go to? i want my money. i work tables. i work hard. 
speaker1: "the quality of mercy is not strained?" you, quality of mercy.

speaker1: - all over the building that i had abandoned some mistake of my past in central park! the couple gasps! 
speaker2: but it's too fantastic!
speaker1: can't you just see me marching down south for freedom now!
speaker3: yes. yes, i can.
speaker1: it was so embarrassing.
speaker4: horrible!

speaker1: it wasn't so embarrassing. 
speaker2: i bet flan loves being outraged. flan i don't!
speaker3: you do! flan loves getting into high dudgeon! his cheeks go all rosy! look at his cheeks! dudgeon becomes him.
speaker4: to high dudgeon! they all toast.

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: where's the money?
speaker3: ouisa continues her tale.
speaker4: - she understandably wanted to know.

speaker1: now did we get this table! 
speaker2: stick with me, baby. i know the right name to drop.
speaker3: rick
speaker4: the waiter opens a bottle of champagne.
speaker1: how an i going to explain to elizabeth about the money? paul tastes the champagne. the waiter pours.
speaker2: she'll have it back. with interest. wonderful bouquet. bouquet. that's what you call the taste of the wine. and i believe that wine from the even numbered years is generally the superior to the odd numbered years. although it's just a theory - cheers! skol! prosit!
speaker1: you are just about the greatest -

speaker1: do you want to dance? 
speaker2: elizabeth has never seen anything l_4e here. i wish she was... who do we dance with? the orchestra segues into a tango. paul stands.
speaker2: we're guys.
speaker1: every moment in life is a learning experience or what good is it? right? right?
speaker2: well, yes.
speaker1: then let this bunch of jerks see class.

speaker1: we don't have any money - 
speaker2: amigo! when will you learn! money is one commodity you can always get.
speaker1: i'm going to have to explain to elizabeth about the money and calm her. she gets so nervous
speaker2: i was wondering if i could you.
speaker1: i don't do things like that.

speaker1: - and he did and it was fantastic. 
speaker2: time has passed.

speaker1: rick lost in the nighttime park. 
speaker2: rick paces back and forth.
speaker3: didn't we come here for experience? right? we can use this. right?

speaker1: but i didn't come here to do this or lose that or be this or do this to you. not to you. look at me? elizabeth! what did i let him do to me? 
speaker2: nobody did this but you.

speaker1: now the amazing part is 
speaker2: talk about six degrees
speaker1: we were in the roller disco that night!

speaker1: yes! there we were roller skating for heart disease or cancer - 
speaker2: it was illiteracy.

speaker1: the body must have just landed there in a clump 
speaker2: because the blood seeping out had not yet reached the gutter...
speaker1: the blood just oozing out slowly towards the curb.
speaker2: the boy had jumped from above.
speaker1: we just missed it by minutes.

speaker1: perhaps we could have saved him - called an ambulance - but it was too late - 
speaker2: he could've landed on us! andrew and jeannie are appalled. no!
speaker3: it's so funny you say that. yesterday we walked through the park by gracie mansion
speaker4: and it was cold and we saw police putting a jacket on a man sitting on a bench.
speaker3: only we got closer and it wasn't a jacket.
speaker4: it was a body bag. a homeless person had frozen during the night.
speaker1: was it that cold?
speaker4: sometimes there are periods where you see death everywhere. flan waves to someone over there. the waitress brings coffees. ouisa looks straight ahead.

speaker1: when this young lady told me the black kid was your son, it all seemed to come into place. what i'm saying is she'll press charges. 
speaker2: i want paul dead. he took all our money. he took my life. rick's dead! you bet your life i'll press charges.

speaker1: we haven't seen him since that night. 
speaker2: find him. we might have a case. a
speaker1: how do we find him?
speaker3: we'll trap him. i'll release it to the papers. i can call the new york times. i have friends. they'll publish the story. someone will see it. and turn him in. we'll find paul.
speaker1: six degrees. six degrees.

speaker1: i didn't see that piece. 
speaker2: we were in aspen.
speaker3: i'll send you the clipping.
speaker4: you could wall paper the empire state building with all the copies he made.
speaker2: we'll meet right here at the next intermission- they return inside.
speaker5: did you ever hear from sidney poitier?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: did you hear from the boy?
speaker3: no.

speaker1: come for dinner with us after 
speaker2: we'd love to but can't!
speaker3: so sorry! have to work.

speaker1: we are bidding tonight on an henri matisse. 
speaker2: the nudes? the bathers? the dancers?
speaker1: it's a second level matisse -
speaker3: but a matisse -
speaker4: who are you buying it for? the japanese? germans?
speaker3: not allowed to tell.
speaker2: then it's the germans.
speaker1: they'll go as high as -
speaker3: don't tell all the family secrets -
speaker1: well over 25 million.
speaker2: out of which you will keep -
speaker3: not that much in this new market.

speaker1: spewing a jet of water 
speaker2: flan is in the shower singing merrily.
speaker3: the matisse will be mine - for a few hours then off to tokyo off to saudi
speaker4: what do you have on?
speaker5: i'm totally dolled up. the black. have you seen it? i have to tell you the sign i saw today. cruelty-free cosmetics. a store was selling cruelty-free cosmetics.
speaker6: tess is curled up on her bed enjoying this chat.

speaker1: i thought you were going to afghanistan. 
speaker2: i am going to get married and then go to afghanistan.
speaker1: one country at a time. you are not getting married.

speaker1: immediately so deeply negative-- 
speaker2: i know everyone you know and you are not marrying any of them.
speaker1: the arrogance that you would assume you know everyone i know. the way you say it: i know everyone you know -

speaker1: unless you met them in the last two days - you can't hold a secret. wait- i'm putting you on hold 
speaker2: no one ever calls on that number.
speaker1: wait. hold on.
speaker2: mother!
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: paul? 
speaker2: i saw the story in the paper. i didn't know the boy killed himself. he gave me the money. i didn't steal any -
speaker1: let me put you on hold. i'm talking to my child.
speaker2: if you put me on hold, i'll be gone and you'll never hear from me again. ouisa pauses.

speaker1: mother! i - 
speaker2: tess is cut off.

speaker1: you have to turn yourself in. the boy comaitted suicide. you stole the money. the girl is pressing charges. they're going to get you. why not turn yourself in and you can get of easier. you can strike a bargain. learn when you're trapped. you're so brilliant. you have such promise. you need help. 
speaker2: would you help me?
speaker1: what would you want me to do?
speaker2: stay with you.
speaker1: that's impossible-.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: my husband feels you betrayed him.
speaker2: do you?
speaker1: you were lunatic! and picking that drek off the street. are you suicidal? do you have aids? are you infected?
speaker2: i do not have it. it's a miracle. but i don't. do you feel i betrayed you? if you do, i'll hang up and never bother you again -
speaker1: where have you been?

speaker1: travelling. 
speaker2: you're not in trouble? i mean, more trouble?
speaker1: no, i only visited you. i didn't like the first people so much. they went out and just left me alone. i didn't like the doctor. he was too eager to please. and he left me alone. but you. you and your husband. we all stayed together.
speaker3: what did you want from us?
speaker1: everlasting friendship.
speaker2: nobody has that.
speaker1: you do.
speaker2: what do you think we are?
speaker1: you're going to tell me secrets? you're not what you appear to be? you have no secrets. trent conway told me what your kids have told him over the years.
speaker2: what have the kids told him about us?
speaker1: i don't tell that. i save that for blackmail.
speaker2: then perhaps i'd better hang up.
speaker1: no! i went to a museum! i liked toulouse-lautrec!
speaker2: as well you should.
speaker1: i read the andy warhol diaries.

speaker1: ahh, you've become an aesthete. 
speaker2: are you laughing at me?
speaker3: no. i read them too.
speaker2: i read the agony and the ecstasy by irving stone about michelangelo painting the sistine chapel.
speaker1: you're ahead of me there.
speaker2: have you seen the sistine chapel?
speaker3: oh yes. even gone to the top of it in a rickety elevator to watch the men clean it.
speaker2: you've been to the top of the sistine chapel?

speaker1: absolutely. stood right under the hand of touching the hand of man. 
speaker2: hit it. hit it. it's only a fresco.
speaker3: you slapped hand!

speaker1: i slapped clean hand. 
speaker2: no!
speaker1: clean away the years of grime and soot and paint ovens. q-tips and water changing the history of western art. vivid colors.
speaker2: take me to see it?
speaker1: take you to see it? paul, they think you might have murdered someone! you stole money! 0 flan appears, needing help with his studs.
speaker3: honey, could you give me a hand with-- ouisa it's paul.
speaker3: i'll call that detective.

speaker1: dad! we were cut off. i'm getting marr - 
speaker2: darling, could you call back -
speaker1: i'm getting married and going to afghanistan -

speaker1: find out where he is. 
speaker2: flan find out where he is
speaker3: who's there?
speaker4: look, why don't you cone here. where are you?
speaker3: i come there and you'll have the cops waiting.
speaker4: you have to trust us.
speaker3: why?
speaker4: because - we like you.

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker1: are you in tonight? i could come and make a feast for you.
speaker2: we're going out now. but you could be here when we come back.
speaker3: are you nuts! tell a crook we're going out. the house is empty.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: to sotheby's.
speaker3: the key's under the mat!
speaker1: hi! can i come to sotheby's?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i said hi to flan.

speaker1: that's wonderful! i'll come! 
speaker2: you can't.
speaker1: why? i was helpful last time -
speaker3: thank him - he was very help - ouisa hands flan the phone.
speaker3: paul? you were helpful getting me that money for the cezanne. you impressed geoffrey -
speaker1: really! i was thinking maybe that's what i should do is what you do - in art but making money out of art and meeting people and not working in an office -
speaker3: you only see the glam side of it. there's a whole grotty side that -
speaker1: i could learn the grotty -
speaker3: you have to have art history. you have to have language. you have to have economics -

speaker1: no, it's not really a profession you hand down from generation to gen - what the at i talking career counselling to you! you embarrassed me in my building! you stole money. there is a warrant out for your arrest.' ouisa don't hang up! paul? are you there? paul! you made him hang up - 
speaker2: i'm here.
speaker3: you are! who are you? what's your real name?
speaker2: if you let me stay with you, i'll tell you. that night was the happiest night i ever had. ouisa it was the happiest night he ever had.
speaker1: oh please. i am not a bullshitter but never a bullshitter. flan goes.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: you let me use all the parts of myself that night - ouisa opens the door into the dining room.
speaker3: it was magical. that salinger stuff -
speaker2: graduation speech at groton two years ago.
speaker3: your cooking -

speaker1: other people's recipes. did you see donald harthleme's obituary? he said collage was the art form of the 20th century. 
speaker2: everything is somebody else's-
speaker1: not your children. not your life.
speaker2: yes. you got me there. that is mine.
speaker1: you don't sound happy.
speaker2: there's so much you don't know. you are so. smart and so stupid - paul slams the side of the phone booth.
speaker1: never say i'm stupid -
speaker2: have some flexibility! you're stupid not to recognize what you could be.
speaker1: what could i be?
speaker2: so much.
speaker1: with you behind me?
speaker2: perhaps. you liked that night? i've thought since that you spent all your time laughing at us.
speaker1: no.
speaker3: she walks down the hall.
speaker4: that you had brought that awful hustling thing back to show us your contempt -
speaker1: i was so happy. i wanted to add to it. don't you do that?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: i'll tell you my name.
speaker2: please?
speaker1: it's paul poitier-kittredge. it's a hyphenated name.
speaker2: paul? you need help. go to the police. turn yourself in. you'll be over it all the sooner. you can start.
speaker1: start what?
speaker2: your life.
speaker1: will you help me?
speaker2: i will help you. but you have to go to the police and go to jail and -
speaker1: will you send me books and polaroids of you and cassettes? and letters?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: will you visit me?
speaker1: i will visit you.
speaker2: and when you do, you'll wear your best clothes and knock em dead?
speaker1: i'll knock em dead. but you've got to be careful in prison. you have to use condoms.
speaker2: i won't have in prison. i only have when i'm happy.
speaker1: go to the police.
speaker2: will you take me?
speaker1: i'll give you the name of-the detective to see-
speaker2: i'll be treated with care if you take me to the police. if they don't know you're special, they kill you.
speaker1: i don't think they kill you.
speaker2: mrs. louisa kittredge, i am black.

speaker1: i will deliver you to them with kindness and affection. 
speaker2: and i'll plead guilty and go to prison and serve a few months.
speaker1: a few months tops.
speaker2: then i'll come out and work for you and learn -
speaker1: we'll work that out.
speaker2: i want to know now.
speaker1: yes. you'll work for us.
speaker2: learn all the trade. not just the grotty part.
speaker1: top to bottom.
speaker2: and live with you.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: your kids are away.
speaker1: you should have your own place.
speaker2: you'll help me find a place?
speaker1: we'll help you find a place.
speaker2: i have no furniture.

speaker1: we'll help you out. 
speaker2: i made a list of things i liked in the museum. philadelphia chippendale.
speaker1: believe it or not, we have two philadelphia chippendale chairs -
speaker2: i'd rather have one nice piece than a room full of junk.
speaker1: quality. always. you'll have all that.
speaker2: all i have to do is go to the police.
speaker1: make it all history. put it behind you.
speaker2: tonight.
speaker1: it can't be tonight. i will take you tomorrow. we have an auction tonight at sotheby's -
speaker2: bring me?
speaker1: i can't. it's black tie.
speaker2: i have black tie from a time i went to the rainbow room. have you ever been to the rainbow room?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: what time do you have to be there? 
speaker2: eight o'clock.
speaker1: it's five thirty now. you could come get me now and take me to the police tonight and then go to sotheby's--
speaker2: we're going to drinks before at the pierre.
speaker1: japanese?
speaker2: germans.
speaker1: you're just like my father.
speaker2: which father?
speaker1: sidney!

speaker1: paul. he's not your father. and flanders. is not your father. 
speaker2: oh we have drinks with the japanese at six- fifteen - get off that phone. is it that kid? get him out of our life! get off that phone or i'll rip it out of the wall! ouisa paul, i made a mistake. it is not the germans. we will come right now and get you. where are you? tell me? i'll take you to the police. they will treat you with dignity.

speaker1: we'll be there in half an hour. 
speaker2: i'll give you fifteen minutes grace time.
speaker1: we'll be there. paul. we love you.
speaker2: ouisa., i love you. ouisa kittredge. hey? bring a pink shirt.
speaker1: we'll have a wonderful life.
speaker1: we can skip the shmoozing. pick the boy up, take him to the police and be at sotheby's before eight.

speaker1: t the story ended there... 
speaker2: it did not!

speaker1: there are so many other people here tonight. we didn't mean to take up so much mrs. bannister slams her napkin down. 
speaker2: no! it's my supper and i command you to sing!
speaker3: we called our new best friend, the detective.
speaker1: we told them paul was at the waverly theater. flan sixth avenue and third street. the lobby.
speaker1: but we had promised paul that we would
speaker3: well, ouisa did.
speaker1: the detective said he'd honor our promise.
speaker3: we skipped the cocktails
speaker1: but we didn't count on

speaker1: the kandinsky is painted on both sides. 
speaker2: paul? officer? let me go with you - i promised i'd take him!
speaker3: lady. out of the way -- flan takes ouisa's-arm.
speaker2: we have to do soaething!
speaker4: let's just get the out of here. the cop car pulls away, sirens blaring.

speaker1: there's nothing more you can do - 
speaker2: what could we do? we tried.
speaker3: went to the precinct.

speaker1: he's transferred. 
speaker2: since yesterday? he's been handling this

speaker1: he's transferred - 
speaker2: this is about an arrest made yesterday at the waverly movie theater - the clerk checks the records.
speaker1: this precinct didn't do any business at the waverly theater.
speaker2: i didn't imagine it -
speaker1: i'm not saying you did.
speaker2: could you find out which precinct - the clerk looks through the book.
speaker1: the name?
speaker2: poitier. he's a young black man. or maybe kittredge. i don't know the exact name -
speaker1: are you family?
speaker2: not exactly. but the detective
speaker1: we have no record of it. some other precinct must have made the arrest. it sounds like your special friend was wanted for something else.
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: lady, how can i help you? you don't even know your friend's name.

speaker1: you see, i read today that a young man committed suicide in riker's island. tied a shirt around his neck and hanged himself. was it the pink shirt? this burst of color? the pink shirt. was it paul? we never found out who he was. 
speaker2: i'm sure it's not him.
speaker3: yes. i agree. isn't it amazing.
speaker2: he'll be back. we haven't heard the last of him. the imagination. he'll find a way. could we talk about something else? our guest of honor tonight- it's such a pleasure to meet you- but.the guest of honor from the un leans forward.
speaker4: why does it mean so much to you?

speaker1: he wanted to be us. everything we are in the world, this paltry thing--our life--he wanted it. he stabbed himself to get into our lives. he envied us. we're not enough to be envied. 
speaker2: like the papers said. we have hearts.
speaker1: having a heart is not the point. we were hardly taken in. we believed him -- for a few hours. he did more for us in a few hours than our children ever did. he wanted to be your child. don't let that go. he sat out in that park and said that man is my father. he's in trouble and we don't know how to help him.
speaker2: help him? he could've killed me. and you. the guests agree.
speaker1: you were attracted to him -
speaker2: cut me out of that pathology! you are on your own -
speaker1: attracted by youth and his talent and the
speaker3: flan
speaker2: what are you saying, darling?
speaker2: cezanne would leave blank spaces in his
speaker1: then i am a collage of unaccounted-for brush strokes. i an all random. ouisa stands up from the dinner table. her chair scrapes. there is an embarrassed rush. mrs. bannister sit down. ouisa leaves the dinner table.
speaker2: what kind of behavior is -
speaker1: flan, how much of your life can you account for?
speaker2: do you realize how important this woman is! she steps in the elevator. flan follows.

speaker1: flan follows ouisa through the lobby. 
speaker2: are you drunk? what are you unhappy about? the cezanne sale vent through. the matisse went through. we are rich. geoffrey's rich. next month there's a bonnard and after that -
speaker3: these are the times i would take a knife and dig out your heart. answer me? how much of your -
speaker2: - life can i account for! all! i am a gambler! ouisa smiles at the simplicity of her realization.
speaker3: we're a terrible match.
speaker4: flan
speaker5: ouisa's hand completes the action.

