speaker1: how are you, keaton? 
speaker2: i'd have to say my spine was broken, keyser. he spits the name out like it was poison.
speaker1: ready?
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: twelve thirty.

speaker1: then silence. total blackness. 
speaker2: new york. - six weeks ago. a truck loaded with stripped gun parts got jacked outside of queens. the driver didn't see anybody, but somebody up. he heard a voice. sometimes, that's all you need.

speaker1: mr. mcmanus? mcmanus yeah. 
speaker1: police. we have a warrant for your arrest. mcmanus will they be serving coffee downtown?

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: todd hockney'
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: police.
speaker1: we don't do gun repair.

speaker1: let me look at you. 
speaker1: now remember, this is another kind of business. they don't earn your respect. you owe it to them. don't stare them down but don't look away either. confidence. they are fools not to trust you. that's the attitude.
speaker2: i'm having a stroke.
speaker1: you've come far. you're a good man. i love you.

speaker1: edie, nice to see you. 
speaker2: sorry we're late.
speaker1: nonsense. sit, please.
speaker3: you must be mr. keaton.
speaker2: i'm sorry. dean keaton renault's hand is already out.
speaker3: monsieur renault. a pleasure.
speaker4: how do you do?
speaker1: monsieur fortier. so nice to finally meet you.

speaker1: edie brought us your proposal and i'll be honest. we're very impressed. a bit skeptical, i must admit, but impressed. 
speaker2: skeptical.
speaker3: we find the concept brilliant, but new york is difficult for new restaurants. how can we be certain that our money will be returned in the long run?
speaker2: it's simple gentlemen, design versatility. a restaurant that can change with taste without losing the overall aesthetic. our atmosphere won't be painted on the walls.
speaker1: this was the part of the proposal that intrigued us, but i'm not sure i follow.
speaker2: let's say for example -
speaker4: this i had to see myself.
speaker2: dave. i'm in a meeting.
speaker5: time for another one.
speaker2: this is my attorney, edie finneran.

speaker1: keaton this is mr. renault and mr. fortier. 
speaker2: special agent kujan. u.s. customs. these gentlemen are with the new york police department. you look great, keaton. better than i would have thought.
speaker3: is there a problem, mr. keaton?
speaker2: the small matter of a stolen truck-load of guns that wound up on a boat to ireland last night.
speaker4: mr. keaton?
speaker5: if you will excuse us for a moment, gentlemen.
speaker2: we need to ask you some questions downtown. you'll be quite awhile.
speaker3: we should leave you to discuss whatever this is.
speaker5: please. sit.
speaker5: enjoy the meal. i'll call you.

speaker1: shut up in there. alright, you all know the drill. when your number is called, step forward and repeat the phrase you've been given. understand? 
speaker1: number one. step forward.
speaker2: hand-me-the-keys, you-fucking-cock-
speaker1: number two. step forward.
speaker1: knock it off. get back in line. mcmanus steps back.

speaker1: this has to be embarrassing for you guys, huh? i mean you know and i know this is a load of but at least i don't have a captain with his in my making me play along. that has got to suck, 
speaker2: are you done? mcmanus do you work for a broad? that would have to be the worst.
speaker2: are you done? mcmanus still, i guess dignity is a small pries to pay for medical and a pension. a small pension, mind you, but a pension nonetheless.
speaker3: they drilled us all night. somebody was about that truck getting knocked off and the cops had nothing. they were hoping somebody would slip. give them something to go on. they knew we wouldn't fight it because they knew how to lean on us. they'd been doing it forever. our rights went right out the window. it was a violation. i mean disgraceful.

speaker1: they went after mcmanus first. he was a good guy. crazy though. a top notch entry man . 
speaker2: so where'd you dump the truck? mcmanus what truck?
speaker2: the truck with the guns, fucko. mcmanus you kill me, you really do. where's my phone call?
speaker2: right here. it out. mcmanus clever guy.
speaker2: you want to know what your buddy fenster told us?

speaker1: i want to call my lawyer. i don;'t know about any truck. i was in connecticut all night on friday. 
speaker2: that's not what mcmanus said.

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: mcmanus. be told us another story altogether. fenster t was it the one about the with dysentery i swear , she never mentioned money until i came.
speaker2: be fold us about the truck. fenster s to be honest, it was more like a + mobile home. she made a lot of money, t
speaker1: hey, are we talking about the same thing?
speaker2: i'm losing my patience.

speaker1: fenster always worked with mcmanus. he was a real tight-ass, but when it came to the job, he was right on. smart guy. a gopher. got whatever you needed for next to nothing. 
speaker2: you guys got nothing on me. where's your probable cause?
speaker3: you're a known hijacker. you're sweating like a guilty motherfucker. that's my p.c. save us the time. tell us where the truck is. fenster knocks on the table.
speaker2: hello? can you hear me in the back? p.c. he looks under his chair.
speaker2: where is it? i'm lookin'. it's not happening. what's going on with that? i want

speaker1: i know you. you don't think i know you're on the take. this whole precinct is dirty. you don't have a leg to stand on. 
speaker2: hockney was just a bad bastard. good with explosives. mean as a snake when it mattered .
speaker3: you think so, tough guy? i can put you in queens the day of the hijacking.
speaker1: i live in queens. what the is this? you come into my store and lock me up in front of my customers. what the is wrong with this country? are you guys gonna charge me or what?
speaker3: you know what happens if you do another turn in the joint?
speaker1: i'll your father in the shower.

speaker1: keaton was the real prize for them, for obvious reasons. 
speaker2: i'll charge you when i'm ready.

speaker1: with what? 
speaker2: you know well, dead-man.
speaker1: hey, that was your mistake, not mine. did you ever think to ask me? i've been

speaker1: keaton walking around with the same face, same name - i'm a businessman, fellas. 
speaker2: what's that? the restaurant business? not anymore from now on you're in the getting-fucked-by-us business . i'm gonna make you famous,
speaker3: like i said. it was all your mistake. charge me with it and i'll beat it. let's get back to the truck.

speaker1: somebody should do something. what is this - getting hauled in every five minutes? okay, so i did a little time, does that mean i get railed every time a truck finds its way off the planet? 
speaker2: these guys got no probable cause.

speaker1: you're a right, no p.c. well screw p.c. no right. no right. you do some time, they never let you go. treat me like a criminal, i'll end up a criminal. 
speaker2: you are a criminal.
speaker1: why you gotta go and do that? i'm trying to make a point.
speaker3: then make it. christ, you're making me tired all over. mcmanus looks at keaton. mcmanus i heard you were dead, keaton.
speaker3: you heard right.
speaker2: the word i got is you hung up your spurs, man. what's that all about? mcmanus what's this?
speaker2: rumor has it, keaton's gone straight - cleaning house. i hear he's tapping edie finneran. mcmanus who?
speaker2: she's a heavy-weight criminal lawyer from uptown. big-time connected. she could erase dillinger's record if she tried. i hear she's keaton's meal ticket. is it true? mcmanus what about it, keaton? you a lawyer's

speaker1: keaton shoots mcmanus a fiery glare. 
speaker2: i'd say you've gotten on his main and central nerve, mcmanus.
speaker3: do your friend a favor, fenster, keep him quiet . mcmanus you're clean, keaton? say it ain't so. was it you that hit that truck?
speaker2: forget him. it's not important. i was trying to make a point.
speaker3: this whole thing was a shakedown. mcmanus what makes you say that?
speaker3: how many times have you been in a line- up? it's always you and four dummies. the p.d. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. no way they'd line five felons in the same row. no way. and what the is a voice line-.up? a public defender could get you off of that.
speaker2: so why the was i hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
speaker3: it was the feds. a truck load of guns gets snagged, customs comes down on n.y.p.d. for some answers - they come up with us. they're grabbing at straws. it's politics - nothing you can do.
speaker2: i had a guy's fingers in my tonight.
speaker4: is it friday already?

speaker1: you. i'11 never right again. so who did it? own up. 
speaker2: i don't want to know. mcmanus nobody asked you, workin'-man.
speaker3: who did it. what i want to know is, who's the gimp?
speaker2: he's alright.
speaker3: how do i know that? how about it, pretzel-man? what's your story?
speaker2: his name is verbal kint. i thought you guys knew him. mcmanus verbal?
speaker4: roger really. people say i talk too much.
speaker3: yeah, i was gonna tell you to shut up.
speaker2: we've met once or twice. last time was in...
speaker4: county. i was in for fraud.
speaker2: you were waiting for a line-up then, too. what happened with that?
speaker4: i walked. ninety days, suspended.

speaker1: so you did it? 
speaker2: to your mother's ass.
speaker3: let it go.
speaker3: why don't you just calm down'
speaker1: what do you care what he says? mcmanus yeah, i'm just talking here, and hockney seems to want to hear me out. i know fenster is with me - how about you, guy?
speaker2: i'm interested, sure. mcmanus
speaker3: i'm not kidding. shut your mouth.

speaker1: no, you're missing the point. shut up. i don't want to hear anything you have to say. i don't want to know about your 
speaker2: and that was how it began. the five of us brought in on a trumped-up charge to be leaned on by half-wits. what the cops never figured out, and what i know now, was that these men would never break, never lie down, never bend over for anybody. .. anybody.

speaker1: a uniform cop trots up to him. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: agent jack baer, f.b.i. how many dead?
speaker2: fifteen so far. we're still pulling some bodies out of the water.
speaker2: looking for anyone in particular?
speaker3: don't want any of the bodies taken away until i've had a chance to go over this, understood?
speaker2: i have to clear the scene. i've got word direct from the chief baer lights a cigarette, only half listening.
speaker3: yes, the chief. spooky stuff. any survivors?
speaker2: two. there's a guy in county hospital, but he's in a coma. the d.a. has the other guy - a cripple - from new york i think. listen, the chief said -
speaker3: excuse me.

speaker1: the district attorney's office will comply provided - 
speaker2: no provisions, nothing. my clients testimony for his immunity.
speaker1: may-i be frank, counselor? i suspect your political power as much as i respect it. i don't know why mr. kint has so many faceless allies in city hall, and i don't care. the embarrassment he helped cause the city of new york will not happen here.
speaker2: immunity.

speaker1: counselor, i will prosecute your client. 
speaker2: then prosecute. i will be very impressed to see if the district attorney manages to bring in twenty-seven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy. i would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged faceless people in city hall you mention.

speaker1: i'11 take my chances then. i'11 feel safer without a job if a man like mr. 
speaker2: mr. kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.
speaker1: you're joking.
speaker2: weapons. misdemeanor one.
speaker1: counselor, you're insulting me.
speaker2: counselor, you're bluffing. shall i push for misdemeanor two?

speaker1: what do you mean i can't see him? 
speaker2: the d.a. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the d.a. comes out looking like he'd been bitch-slapped by the boogey man. they took his statement and cut him a deal.
speaker1: did they charge him with anything?
speaker2: weapons. misdemeanor two.
speaker1: what'the is that?
speaker3: i give the d.a. credit for getting that much to stick. this whole thing has turned political. the mayor was here - the chief - the governor called this morning, for christ's sake. this guy is

speaker1: rabin protected - from up on high by the prince of darkness. 
speaker2: when does he post bail?
speaker3: two hours, tops.
speaker2: i want to see him.

speaker1: even if i was to let you talk to him, he won't talk to you. he's paranoid about being recorded and he knows the interrogation rooms are wired 
speaker2: this won't be an' interrogation, just a... friendly chat to kill time.
speaker3: he won't go into the interrogation room.
speaker2: someplace else, then.
speaker3: where?
speaker1: no, no, no, no, no.
speaker2: if it was a dope deal, where's the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
speaker1: and i am sure you have a host of wild + theories to answer these questions.
speaker2: you know well what i think.

speaker1: that's crazy, dave and it doesn't matter. he has total immunity and his story checks out. he doesn't know what you want to know. 
speaker2: i don't think he does. not exactly, but there's a lot more to his story. i want to know why twenty-seven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninety-one million dollars worth of dope that wasn't there. above all, i want to be sure that dean keaton is dead.
speaker3: he's dead.
speaker2: two hours. just until he makes bail.
speaker4: they're all dead. no matter how tough you r. say this keaton was, no one on that boat could've made it out alive.

speaker1: ridgly, this is special agent jack baer from the f.b.i. agent baer, this is doctor ridgly waiters. 
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker3: is he talking?
speaker2: he regained consciousness less than an hour ago. he spoke - not english - then he lapsed.
speaker3: hungarian?

speaker1: i don't 
speaker2: it was hungarian. most of them were hungarians. any fluent hungarians on your staff?
speaker1: we have a turkish audiologist. ridgly opens a door and baer barrels through.

speaker1: will he die? 
speaker2: there's a chance.
speaker3: andlt;andlt;find someone who understands me, you i'm going to be killed, you'll all be killed if he has to do it. help me, they're all stupid. get someone who understands me or we're all going to die.andgt;andgt;

speaker1: call hospital security and put a man on the door until the police get here. 
speaker2: andlt;andlt;why are you just standing there, you idiot? i'm not speaking english am i? wouldn't it make sense to find someone who could talk to me so you could find the person that set me on fire, perhaps? he is the devil. you've never seen anyone like keyser soze in all your miserable life you keyser soze. do you at least understand that? keyser soze. the devil himself. or are you american policemen io stupid that you haven't even heard of him. keyser soze, you ridiculous man. keyser soze . andgt;andgt;

speaker1: is he dangerous? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: joel, it's baer. i'm down at l.a. county. the guy they pulled out of the harbor is arkosh kovash... yes, i'm sure... no, he's all up... what? i can't hear you. shut up, hugo, i'm on the phone. yes... no... not until i put someone on him. listen, i need you to send me someone who can speak hungarian. he's awake and talking like a thai hooker... how should i know? get me someone who can talk to him -
speaker3: keyser - soze.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: keyser - soze.
speaker2: no joel, call dan metzheiser over at justice and find dave kujan from customs.

speaker1: verbal, you know we're trying to help you. 
speaker2: sure. and i appreciate that. and i want to help you, agent kujan. i like cops. i would have liked to have been a fed myself but my c.p. was -
speaker1: verbal, i know you know something. i know you're not telling us everything.
speaker2: i told the d.a. everything i know.

speaker1: i know you liked keaton i know you think he was a good man. 
speaker2: i know he was good.
speaker1: he was a corrupt cop, verbal.

speaker1: sure. fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief anyway, the cops wouldn't let him go legit. 
speaker2: keaton was a piece of
speaker1: you trying to get a rise out of me, agent kujan?

speaker1: it's right here. 
speaker2: according to your statement you are a short-con operator. run of the mill seams. everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
speaker1: that's been suppressed. anything in there is inadmissible.
speaker2: oh, i know. sweet deal you have. total immunity .
speaker1: well i do have the weapons charge. i'm looking at six whole months hard time.
speaker2: you know a dealer named ruby deemer, verbal?
speaker1: you know a religious guy named john paul?
speaker2: you know ruby is in attica?
speaker1: he didn't have my lawyer.
speaker2: i know ruby. he's very big on respect. likes me very much.
speaker2: now i know your testimony was sealed. ruby is well connected. he still has people running errands for him. what do you think he'd say if he found out you dropped his name to the d.a.?

speaker1: there's nothing in there about ruby. 
speaker2: i'11 be sure to mention that to him.
speaker2: the first thing i learned on the job, know what it was? how to spot a murderer. let's say you arrest three guys for the same killing. put them all in jail overnight. the next morning, whoever is sleeping is your man. if you're guilty, you know you're caught, you get some rest - let your guard down, you follow?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'11 get right to the point. i'm smarter than you. i'11 find out what i want to know and i'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
speaker1: i'm not a rat.
speaker1: ahhh. back when i was picking beans in guatemala we used to make fresh coffee. right off the trees i mean. that was good. this is but hey...
speaker3: can we get started again?
speaker2: now what happened after the line-up?

speaker1: ...and the desk sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can't release you? can you believe that? you weren't even charged. new york police - i want to take pictures of your face to bring to the d.a. first thing in the morning. 
speaker2: just forget about it.
speaker1: absolutely not.
speaker1: i'11 have this thing in front of a grand jury by monday.
speaker2: edie, please. i don't want to hear this right now. what did renault and fortier say?
speaker1: they want more time to think about investing.
speaker2: goddamnit.
speaker1: they just said they wanted time.
speaker2: time for what, edie? time to look into me a little more, that's what. no matter how well you cover my tracks now, they'll find out who i am.

speaker1: give me some credit. i got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. this is never going to stop if we - 
speaker2: no. it's never going to stop, period. it won't take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us. it's finished. i'm finished.
speaker1: don't give up on me now, dean.
speaker2: they'll never stop.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: they ruined me tonight.
speaker1: dean, i love you. do you hear me?
speaker1: let's just go to my place. we'll worry about this tomorrow.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: come home with me, please. dean?

speaker1: come home, dean. 
speaker2: alright.

speaker1: what are you doing here'! how did you find me? 
speaker2: i just asked one of the detectives downtown. he seemed pretty happy to tell me.

speaker1: dean, who was at the 
speaker2: how do you do?
speaker3: verb - roger, this is edie finneran.
speaker1: i know who he is.
speaker2: i hope i didn't disturb you.
speaker1: i hope so, too, mr. kint. can i get you something to drink?
speaker2: a glass of water would be nice.
speaker3: what the do you want?
speaker2: i wanted to talk to you. the other guys -
speaker3: i did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but don't think we're friends. i'm sorry, but i have other things -
speaker2: they're gonna do a job. three million dollars, maybe more.

speaker1: they sent me to offer you a cut. we could use a fifth man - a driver - that's all you'll do. 
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: so what is it you do, mr. kint? 
speaker2: umm ...
speaker1: a hijacker like dean, here? or something more creative?
speaker3: that's enough, edie.
speaker1: i don't know what you came here for, but we won't have any part of it.
speaker3: edie, please.
speaker1: i've spent the last year of my life putting his back together again - i won't have you come in here and - what makes you think - get out. get out of m home.

speaker1: don't touch me. just don't, 
speaker2: get out.
speaker3: if you'll just let me -
speaker3: don't hurt me.
speaker2: hurt you, you sonofabitch? i could kill you.
speaker3: they're going to hit the taxi service.
speaker3: new york's finest taxi service.
speaker2: they - that's they don't operate anymore.
speaker3: mcmanus has a friend in the fourteenth precinct. they're coming out for one job - thursday. they're picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of south america. fenster and mcmanus have a fence set to take the stuff.

speaker1: what fence? who? 
speaker2: some guy in california. his name is redfoot.
speaker1: never heard of him.
speaker2: you have to come.
speaker1: what's with you? what do you care whether i come or not?
speaker2: they - they don't know me. you do. they won't take me unless you go. look at me.
speaker1: tough break.
speaker2: don't tell me you don't need this. is this your place?
speaker2: they're never going to stop with us, you know that. this way we hit the cops where it hurts and get well in the mean time.
speaker2: as clean as you could ever get, they'll never let you go now.

speaker1: verbal 
speaker2: you watch your mouth.
speaker2: i apologize.

speaker1: i was out of line. 
speaker2: you okay?
speaker1: i'11 be alright.
speaker2: well, i'm sorry.
speaker1: forget it.

speaker1: how are they going to do it? 
speaker2: mcmanus wants to go in shooting. i said no way.
speaker1: fenster and hockney?
speaker2: they're pretty off. they'll do anything. now i got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like i said, they won't let me in without you.
speaker1: three million?
speaker2: maybe more.
speaker1: no killing?
speaker2: not if we do it my way.

speaker1: after a while, somebody started asking questions and the taxi service shut down. ever since then, internal affairs had been waiting to catch them in the act. 
speaker1: and that was how we started. mcmanus came to us with the job; fenster got the vans; hockney supplied the hardware; 'i came through with how to do it so no one got killed - but keaton - keaton put on the

speaker1: how was the flight? 
speaker2: will that get me to the pierre?
speaker1: that'll get you to cape

speaker1: do you know who i am? 
speaker2: we db now, jerk-off.

speaker1: when does the fence come? mcmanus redfoot? he never comes to see me. i have to go see him. 
speaker2: in california? mcmanus yeah. it'll take a few days. me and fenster
speaker1: hold the phone. you and fenster? no, no, no. mcmanus guys, come on.
speaker1: i'm sure you can understand my hesitation.
speaker3: then who goes?
speaker1: we all go. how about it, keaton?
speaker4: we need to lay low for a while.

speaker1: we're going to miss the flight. 
speaker2: we'll make it.
speaker1: don't do this. send her a card - something.
speaker2: we'll make it.
speaker3: ms. finneran will be with you in a moment.
speaker4: 51a.
speaker1: we're gonna miss the plane. she'll understand.

speaker1: heartwarming. really, i feel weepy. 
speaker2: you wanted to know what happened after the line-up, i'm telling you.
speaker1: oh come on, verbal. who do you think you're talking to? you really expect me to believe he retired? for a woman?
speaker2: he loved her.
speaker1: sure. and i'm supposed to believe that hitting the taxi service wasn't his idea either.
speaker2: that was all fenster and mcmanus.
speaker1: come on. keaton was a cop for four years. who else would know the taxi service

speaker1: kujan better? that job had his name all over it. 
speaker2: you keep trying to lay this whole ride on t keaton. it wasn't like that. sure he knew, but edie had him all turned around. r i'm telling you straight, i swear. +
speaker3: let me tell you something. i know dean keaton. i've been investigating him for three years. the guy i know is a cold- + blooded bastard. l.a.p.d. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so don't sell me the with the heart of gold. +
speaker2: you got him wrong.
speaker3: do i? keaton was under indictment a total + of seven times when he was on the force. + in every case, witnesses either reversed + their testimony to the grand jury or died + before they could testify. when they t finally did nail him for fraud, he spent + five years in sing sing. he killed three prisoners inside - one with a knife in the tailbone while he strangled him to death. of course i can't prove this but i can't prove the best part either. kujan pauses to drink some coffee.
speaker3: dean keaton was dead. did you know that? r he died in a fire two years ago during an investigation into the murder of a witness who was going to testify against him. two people saw keaton enter a warehouse he owned just before it went up. they said he had gone in to check a + leaking gas main. it blew up and took all of dean keaton with it. within three months of the explosion, the two witnesses were dead, one killed himself in his car and the other fell down an open elevator shaft.

speaker1: i don't know about that. 
speaker2: i don't think you do. but you say you saw keaton die. i think you're covering his and he's still out there somewhere. i think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. my bet is he's using you because you're stupid and you think he's your friend. you tell me he's dead, so be it. i want to make sure he's dead before i go back to new york.
speaker1: he wasn't behind anything. it was the lawyer.
speaker2: what lawyer?

speaker1: what lawyer, verbal? 
speaker2: back when i was in that barber shop quartet in skokie, illinois i used to have
speaker1: you think i don't know you held out on the d.a.? what did you leave out of that testimony? i can be on the phone to ruby deemer in ten minutes.
speaker2: the d.a. gave me immunity.

speaker1: kujan every cop who owes me a favor, every creeping scumbag that works the street for a living, will know the name of verbal kint. you'll be the lowest sort of rat, the prince of snitches, the loudest cooing stool pigeon that ever grabbed his ankles for the man. now you talk to me, or that precious immunity they've seen so fit to grant you won't be worth the paper the contract put out on your life is printed on. 
speaker2: there was a lawyer. kobayashi.
speaker3: is he the one that killed keaton?
speaker2: no. but i'm sure keaton's dead.
speaker3: convince me. tell me every last detail.

speaker1: are you the translator? 
speaker2: patrolman lionel bodi, sir.

speaker1: agent beer, this is getting out of hand. 
speaker2: i'11 see to it we're gone before he blows his porch light, doctor. baer gestures to tracy.
speaker2: this is tracy fitzgerald. she's a composite sketch artist from county.
speaker3: hi.
speaker4: hi.
speaker5: i've got a noon meeting, baer.
speaker1: agent baer, please.
speaker2: everyone calm down. ask this man about the shoot-out in the harbor.
speaker3: andlt;andlt;my name is bodi. how are you'andgt;andgt;
speaker6: andlt;andlt;how am 17 you are as stupid as that one, but at least i can talk to you.andgt;andgt;
speaker3: andlt;andlt;you'll be alright. he is from the f.b.i. he is here to help you. he wants to know what happened in the harbor.andgt;andgt;
speaker6: andlt;andlt;we were there to buy a man and take him back to hungary.andgt;andgt;

speaker1: he says they were buying it doesn't make sense. i'm sorry, i'm a little rusty. they were there to buy something. 
speaker2: dope, we know.

speaker1: not dope. something else. some what?.. he doesn't what they were buying. but not dope... people. 
speaker2: andlt;andlt;i'll tell you everything. i'11 even say it slow enough for you to understand it. just tell this man i want protection. real protection.andgt;andgt;

speaker1: your witness is whacked, baer. 
speaker2: he says he'll tell us everything he knows if we protect him.
speaker3: tell him fine.
speaker2: andlt;andlt;he says that is fine.andgt;andgt;
speaker4: andlt;andlt;no, no, no. i need a guarantee from the ridiculous man. i am going to be killed. i have seen the devil and looked him in the eye.andgt;andgt;
speaker2: no good. he needs guarantees. he says... his life is in danger... he has seen the devil... looked him in the eye.
speaker1: i'11 be on my way.
speaker5: tell him to tell this man what he was telling me before. who is the devil? who did he see?
speaker2: andlt;andlt;who is this devil you keep talking about?andgt;andgt;
speaker4: keyser soze he was in the harbor shooting everyone in sight.andgt;andgt; metzheiser is suddenly interested.
speaker2: he says he saw him in the harbor. he was shooting... killing... killing many men.
speaker1: did he say keyser soze? he saw keyser soze

speaker1: he says he saw him in the harbor. he was shooting... killing... killing many men. 
speaker2: did he say keyser soze? he saw keyser soze.
speaker3: andlt;andlt;keyser soze. keyser sate. i've seen his face. i see it when i close my eyes.andgt;andgt;
speaker1: he says he knows his face. he sees it when he closes his eyes.

speaker1: ask him what this devil looks like. 
speaker2: ready?

speaker1: how've you been? mcmanus good. you? 
speaker1: alright. how's it going, fenster?
speaker2: getting by.

speaker1: you got it? 
speaker1: you must be keaton. mcmanus i'm sorry. redfoot, this is dean keaton, that's todd hockney, and that's verbal kint.
speaker1: the man with the plan.
speaker1: are you guys interested in more work?
speaker2: we're on vacation.
speaker1: i've got a ton of work and no good people. mcmanus what's the job?

speaker1: a jeweler out of texas named saul. he rents a suite at a hotel downtown and does free appraisals. buys whatever he can. word is he moves with a lot of cash. i'11 take the merchandise, you keep the green. 
speaker2: security?
speaker1: two bodyguards. pretty good. mcmanus give us time to check it out?
speaker1: i'd expect nothing less. mcmanus we'll call you.
speaker1: take your time. enjoy l.a.
speaker3: a friend of mine in new york tells me you knew spook hollis.
speaker1: i hear you did time with old spook. yeah, he was a good egg. i used to run a lot of dope for him. shame he got shivved.
speaker3: i shivved him.
speaker3: better you hear it from me now than somebody else later.
speaker1: business or personal?

speaker1: a little of both. 
speaker2: ain't it a crime? call if you're interested.
speaker1: one job, that was the deal. mcmanus take it as it comes, brother.
speaker1: this is
speaker3: what is it keaton?
speaker1: something - i don't know. i ever tell you about the restaurant i wanted to open?
speaker3: l.a., was good for about two hours. we were from new york. there's no place to eat after one; you can't get a pizza that doesn't taste like a fried fruit-bat, and the broads don't want to know you if you don't look like a broad. within a few days the last of us was ready to go back to n.y., but keaton wouldn't have it, so he really didn't have a choice. we went to work.

speaker1: just get in the car saul. 
speaker2: i get out of the car, and man if the thing wasn't wrecked. and i see this broad in the back seat with nothing on.
speaker2: i'm laughing so hard i can't breathe -
speaker2: ...and the fat guy comes out of the car with his pants on backwards and says -

speaker1: what the hell? mcmanus bad day. it. 
speaker2: the elevator light comes on. all five men look.
speaker3: move.

speaker1: mcmanus what does it look like? i'm going to kill him. 
speaker2: we did it your way. now i'11 deal with him.
speaker3: you gonna kill him?
speaker2: i'm going to deal with him.
speaker4: get a grip. i didn't know.
speaker2: you didn't know.

speaker1: the job got thrown to me by this lawyer. 
speaker2: who is he?
speaker1: some limey. he's a middle-man for somebody. he doesn't say and i don't ask.
speaker2: we want to meet him.
speaker1: he wants to meet you. he called last night and asked me to set it up. what do i tell him'
speaker2: tell him we'll meet. mcmanus if you're lying, redfoot...
speaker1: mcmanus, you're a real bad-ass, but get off my tip. mcmanus lunges for redfoot.
speaker1: real shame about saul getting whacked. lot's of cops looking for the guys that did it. i'm sure they'll get around to asking me.

speaker1: so this lawyer... 
speaker2: kobayashi.
speaker1: came from redfoot.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: and why leave this out when you talked to the d.a.?
speaker3: rabin sticks his head in.
speaker4: someone to see you, agent kujan.

speaker1: jack. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i've been looking all over for you. you still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you can stop looking. there was no coke. i've been in l.a. county with a guy they

speaker1: baer pulled out of a drainpipe in san pedro yesterday after the shoot-out. he came to + this morning and started talking. he was part of a hungarian mob there to do a deal with a bunch of goats from argentina. he says it was definitely not a dope deal. 
speaker2: there was ninety-one million -
speaker3: we know, but our man says no way on the dope. this hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for turkey the next' day. they had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
speaker2: what was the money for?
speaker3: he didn't know. no one doing the deal knew except a few key people. this guy says they were real hush about it.
speaker2: i don't get it.
speaker3: they tell me you got the cripple from new york in there. he mention keyser soze
speaker2: who ?
speaker3: bear with me here...

speaker1: boom - the door bursts open. 
speaker2: who is keyser soze

speaker1: ahhh 
speaker2: so i need to know if anyone can think of anybody. somebody with power. enough to possibly track us from new york. mcmanus look. we've been over it for an hour now. i say we pack up and run. let's go back to new york. at least get out of l.a. suddenly, the sound of a man clearing his throat. everyone turns to the door behind them.
speaker3: mr. keaton?
speaker3: i am mr. kobayashi. i've been asked by my employer to bring a proposal to you gentlemen. that must be mr. hockney. i recognize mr. fenster from his mug shot, as well as mr. mcmanus. i can only assume that you are mr. kint. i believe you were the one who disposed of saul. my employer sends his gratitude. a most unexpected benefit.
speaker2: what can we do for you?

speaker1: my employer requires your services. one job. one day's work. very dangerous. i don't expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit. 
speaker2: who's your boss?
speaker1: my employer wishes to remain anonymous.
speaker2: don't jerk me off. we all know what this is. you don't work with me if i work with you without knowing who i'm working for. now let's cut the who's the man?
speaker1: i work for keyser sate.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker3: who's keyser soze?
speaker1: i am sure you've heard a number of tall tales, myths and legends about mr. soze i can assure you gentlemen, most of them are true.
speaker3: who's keyser soze?
speaker1: judging by the sudden change in mood, i am sure the rest of your associates can tell you, mr. kint. i have come with an offer directly from mr. soze. an order actually.
speaker2: an order.

speaker1: in nineteen-eighty one, mr. keaton, you participated in the hijacking of a truck in buffalo, new york. the cargo was raw steel. steel that belonged to mr. soze and was destined for pakistan to be used in a nuclear reactor. a very profitable violation of u.n. regulations. you had no way of knowing this, because the man shipping the steel was working for mr. sate without his knowledge. + mr. fenster and mr. mcmanus hijacked a twin-prop cargo flight earlier this year out of newark airport. the plane was carrying platinum and gold wiring. also set for pakistan. 
speaker1: two months ago, mr. hockney stole a truck carrying gun parts through queens -
speaker1: - guns allegedly set to be destroyed by the state of new york. they were to be
speaker1: nine months ago, one of mr. soze less than intelligent couriers was taken in a complicated confidence seam by a cripple. he was relieved of sixty-two thousand dollars. now - it has taken us some time to find you. our intention was to approach you after your apprehension in new york.

speaker1: you set up the line-up. 
speaker2: mr. soze made a few calls, yes. you were not to be released until i came to see you. it seems mr. keaton's attorney, ms. finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. holding the rest of you became a moot point.
speaker1: what about redfoot?
speaker2: mr. redfoot knew nothing. mr. soze rarely t works with the same people for very long, and they never know who they're working for. one cannot be betrayed if one has no people.
speaker3: so why tell us?
speaker2: because you have stolen from mr. soze. that you did not know you stole from him is the only reason you are still alive, but he feels you owe him. you will repay your debt.

speaker1: who is this guy? how do we know you work for soze 
speaker2: i don't think that is relevant, mr. hockney. the five of you are responsible for the murder of saul berg and his bodyguards. mr. redfoot can attest to your involvement, and we can see to it that he will. he is not of your superior breed.
speaker3: this is a load of
speaker2: the offer is this, gentlemen. mr. soze's primary interest, as i am sure you all know, is narcotics. he's been - competing shall we say, with a group of

speaker1: kobayashi argentinians for several years. competing with mr. soze has taken its toll. these argentinians are negotiating the sale of ninety-one million dollars in cocaine in three days time. needless to say, this purchase will revitalize the diminishing strength of their organization. mr. soze wants you to stop the deal. if you choose, you may wait until the buy. whatever money changes hands is yours. the transaction will take place on a boat in san pedro. mr. soze wants you to get to the boat and destroy the cocaine on board. then you are free of your obligation to mr. soze. 
speaker2: give me one good reason why i shouldn't kill you right now.
speaker3: a gift from mr. soze gentlemen. he turns and walks out of the room.
speaker2: christ. open them.
speaker4: they know everything. mcmanus this is my life in here. everything i've done since i was eighteen.

speaker1: everybody i ever worked with, did time with. 
speaker2: they know everything.
speaker3: this is not right.
speaker1: i don't know. who was that guy that used to talk about soze in new york? mcmanus bricks marlin.
speaker1: yeah. he said he did jobs for him. indirect stuff. always five times more money than the job was worth.
speaker3: come on. the guy is a pipe dream. this kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
speaker1: i don't know. this is bad.
speaker2: it's this guy could be l.a.p.d. i think it's a setup.
speaker1: the way i hear it, soze is some kind of butcher. no pity.
speaker3: there' is no keyser soze

speaker1: he comes home to his wife raped and his children screaming. the hungarians knew soze was tough. not to be trifled with. so they let him know they meant business. the hungarian smiles. soze's wife screams in horror. the hungarian holds up a blood soaked razor. 
speaker1: they tell soze they want his territory - all his business. soze looks over the + faces of his family... then he showed these men of will what will really was.

speaker1: he tells him he would rather' see his family dead than live another day after this. 
speaker1: he lets the last hungarian go, and he goes running. he waits until his wife and kids are in the ground and he goes after the rest of the mob. he kills their kids, he kills their wives, he kills their parents and their parents' friends.
speaker1: he burns down the houses they live in and the stores they work in, he kills people that owe them money. and like that he was gone. underground. no one has ever seen him again. he becomes a myth, a spook story that criminals tell their kids at night. if you rat on your pop, keyser sate will get you. and nobody really ever believes.

speaker1: do you believe in him, verbal? 
speaker2: keaton always said: i don't believe in but i'm afraid of him. well i believe in and the only thing that scares me is keyser soze.

speaker1: i can introduce you to dan metzheiser from justice. he has a file on sate in d.c. it's been a hobby of his for a few years. a lot of guys equate him to that reporter on the incredible hulk. 
speaker2: had you heard of him before?
speaker1: on the street? a few times. outside stuff. somebody was working for a guy who was working for a guy who got money through keyser soze. that kind of could be an old badge. a hex sign to keep people from with you back when a name meant something.
speaker3: but you're here.
speaker1: yeah. i got a guy trying to walk out of the hospital on d fried drumstick to get away from soze. i'11 run it up the flagpole.

speaker1: i came clean. i told it like it happened on the boat. so what if i left out how i got there? it's got so many holes in it, the d.a. would've told me to blow amnesty out my ass. so you got what you wanted out of me. big deal. 
speaker2: and this is why you never told the d.a.
speaker1: you tell me, agent kujan. if i told you the loch ness monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
speaker2: turn state's evidence. take the stand on this and we'll hear it out.

speaker1: i've got immunity now. what can you possibly offer me? 
speaker2: if there is a keyser soze he'll be looking for you.
speaker1: where's your head, agent kujan? where do you think the pressure's coming from? keyser soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where i am right now. he's got the front burner under' your to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. immunity was just to deal with you assholes. i got a whole new problem when i post bail.
speaker2: so why play into his hands? we can protect you.
speaker1: gee, thanks, dave. bang-up job so far. extortion, coercion. you'll pardon me if i ask you to kiss my pucker. the same that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me they'll bail me out? you. you think you can catch keyser soze? you think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out? if he comes up for anything, it will be to get rid of me. after that, my guess is you'll never hear from him again.

speaker1: + the nose is sharper. smaller too. + andlt;andlt;and what about the hair? you said something earlier about it.andgt;andgt; 
speaker2: andlt;andlt;it is longer than that. and not so dark. andgt;andgt;
speaker1: andlt;andlt;are you sure?andgt;andgt;
speaker2: andlt;andlt;don't be stupid.andgt;andgt;
speaker1: he says the hair is longer and lighter.

speaker1: that was how i ended up in a barber shop quartet in skokie, illinois. 
speaker2: this is totally irrelevant.
speaker1: oh, but it's not. if i hadn't been nailed in illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, i never would have took off for new york. i never would have met keaton, see. that barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
speaker2: can we just get back to kobayashi?
speaker1: the quartet is part of the bit about kobayashi. the quartet was in my file, along with every other thing i had done since high school, see? aliases, middle- men. they knew me better than i did. they knew all of us.
speaker2: you're stalling, verbal.
speaker1: give a guy a break, huh?
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: we woke up the next morning and fenster was gone. he couldn't handle the idea of slumming for soze. he left a note wishing us good luck and took a chunk of the money we'd scraped together.

speaker1: then what? 
speaker2: mcmanus was furious. he was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of that night we got the call.
speaker1: what call?
speaker2: kobayashi told us where we could find fenster.

speaker1: what do you want to do with him? 
speaker1: i'm sorry, mcmanus. mcmanus i want to bury him.
speaker1: no time.

speaker1: this is nuts. mcmanus dig. 
speaker1: this is dry sand, man. when he rots, the surfers'll smell him from a hundred yards out.

speaker1: keaton, we gotta go. they're gonna find him. 
speaker2: dig.
speaker3: what are we gonna do?
speaker1: i can run. i got no problem with that.
speaker2: they don't seem to have a problem with it either. mcmanus nobody runs.
speaker1: this ain't my boy we're burying. i don't owe anybody.

speaker1: mcmanus we got a deal here. 
speaker2: since when? mcmanus since tonight. +
speaker2: that. mcmanijs it's payback.
speaker3: it's not payback. i don't answer to you. + it's precaution. you want payback? you want to run? i don't care. i'm going to finish this thing. not for fenster, not for anybody else, but for me. this kobayashi isn't going to stand over me. all of you can go to hell.

speaker1: and after they killed fenster nobody would run? 
speaker2: i wanted to. i thought we could make it.
speaker1: why didn't you say anything?
speaker2: i tried, believe me, but keaton wouldn't have it. it was too far-fetched for him. keaton was a grounded guy. an ex-cop. to a cop, the explanation is never that complicated. it's always simple. there's

speaker1: the answer is no. 
speaker2: mr. soze will be most -
speaker1: listen to me, there is no keyser sate. if you say his name again, i'11 kill you right here.
speaker2: a strange threat. i can only assume you're here to kill me anyway. pity about mr. redfoot. mcmanus fair trade for fenster.
speaker2: ahh, mr. hockney. do join us.
speaker1: we know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. i'm offering you the chance to call this off.
speaker2: mr. so- my employer has made up his mind. he does not change it.
speaker1: neither do we. mcmanus you got fenster, you may get more, but you won't get us all. not before one of us gets to you.
speaker2: i believe you, mr. mcmanus. i quite sincerely do. you would not have been chosen if you were not so capable, but i cannot make this decision. whatever you can threaten me with is... ludicrous in comparison to what will be done to me if

speaker1: mcmanus just so you know. i'm the guy. i'm the one that's gonna get through to you. 
speaker2: i am sorry, mr. mcmanus. implore you to believe me, mr. keaton. mr. soze is very real and very + determined.
speaker3: we'll see.
speaker2: before you do me in, you will let me finish my business with ms. finneran first, won't you?
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker2: edie finneran. she is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition. i requested she be put on the case personally. she flew out yesterday.
speaker2: no matter. kill away, mr. mcmanus.
speaker3: you're lying.
speaker2: am i?

speaker1: ms. finneran's in los angeles. never leaves her for a moment. i thought you'd like to know she was in good hands. 
speaker1: get your rest, gentlemen. the boat will be ready for you on friday. if i see you or your friends before then, or fail to check in every half hour with that unpleasant looking man in there, ms. finneran will find herself the victim of a gruesome violation before she dies. as will your father, mr. hockney. and your uncle randall in arizona, mr. kint. i might only castrate mr. mcmanus' nephew, david. do i make myself clear?
speaker1: i'11 take care of the dead men

speaker1: it's a logistical nightmare. close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty. 
speaker2: can we stealth these guys?
speaker1: doubtful. with all that coke, they'll be ready - which brings me to sunny spot number two. even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat, we get nothing. mcmanus and if we wait for the money?
speaker1: ten more men at least. in my opinion, it can't be done. anyone who walks into this won't come out alive. mcmanus i'm for waiting for the money.
speaker2: me too.
speaker3: did you hear what he just said?
speaker2: if i'm going in, i want a stake.

speaker1: mcmanus so do i. 
speaker2: i just can't believe we're just gonna walk into certain death.

speaker1: what-are they speaking? 
speaker2: russian, i think. i don't know.
speaker1: hungarian?

speaker1: i want you to stay here. understand? 
speaker1: if we don't make it out, i want you to take the money and go.
speaker2: keaton, i can't just -
speaker1: i want you to find edie. both of you find some place safe. tell her what happened - everything. she knows people. she'll know what to do. if we can't get kobayashi my way, she'll get him her way.
speaker2: what if i
speaker1: just do what i tell you.
speaker1: tell her i... tell her i tried.

speaker1: the men surrounding keaton, are distracted. 
speaker2: he fires as fast as he can.

speaker1: a boy came across a body on the beach this morning. thrown clear when the boat burned. shot once in the head. two guys from the f.b.i. just identified him. + 
speaker2: and ?
speaker3: his name was arturo marquez. a petty smuggler out of argentina. he was arrested in new york last year for trafficking. he escaped to california and got picked up in long beach. they were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. get this - edie finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
speaker2: kobayashi.
speaker4: i called new york county and they fared me a copy of marquez's testimony. he was a rat.
speaker2: a big rat.

speaker1: arturo was strongly opposed 'to going back to prison. so much so that he informed on close to fifty guys. guess who he names for a finale? 
speaker2: keyser soze
speaker3: there's more.

speaker1: i'11 tell you what i know. stop me when it sounds familiar. 
speaker1: there was no dope on that boat.

speaker1: what happened to you? mcmanus keyser soze is on the boat. 
speaker1: what? mcmanus i heard somebody screaming his nuts off.
speaker1: are you alright?

speaker1: mcmanus huh? oh, it's not mine. 
speaker2: there's no coke.
speaker2: right behind you.

speaker1: where's hockney? mcmanus i don't think he made it to the boat. 
speaker1: i can't remember which way. mcmanus right -

speaker1: i told them nothing. 
speaker2: the man in the robe falls dead.

speaker1: and that's when you say in your statement that you saw... 
speaker1: a man in a suit with a slim build. tall.
speaker2: wait a minute.
speaker2: i - there had to be dope there.

speaker1: don't shine me, verbal. no more stalling. you know what i'm getting at. 
speaker2: i don't.

speaker1: i don't understand what you're saying. i saw keaton get shot, i swear to you. 
speaker2: then why didn't you help him?
speaker1: i was afraid, okay? somehow, i was sure it was keyser soze at that point. i couldn't bring myself to raise my gun to him.
speaker2: but keaton...
speaker1: it was keyser soze, agent kujan. i mean the devil himself. how do you shoot the devil in the back?

speaker1: verbal holds up a shaking, twisted hand. 
speaker2: what if you miss?

speaker1: arturo marquez. ever hear of him? 
speaker2: wha- no.
speaker1: he was a stool pigeon for the justice department. he swore out a statement to federal marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one keyser soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
speaker2: i never heard of him.
speaker1: his own people were selling him to a gang of hungarians. most likely the same hungarians that sate all but wiped out back in turkey. the money wasn't there for dope. the hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger soze for them.
speaker2: i said i never heard of him.
speaker1: but keaton had. edie finneran was his extradition advisor. she knew who he was and what he knew.
speaker2: i don't
speaker1: there were no drugs on that boat. it was a hit. a suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger keyser soze so sate had a few thieves put to it. men he knew he could march into certain death.
speaker2: but how - wait. you're saying soze sent t us to kill someone?

speaker1: i'm saying keaton did. 
speaker1: verbal, he left you behind for a reason. if you all knew soze could find you anywhere, why was he ready to send you off with the money when he could have used you to take the boat?
speaker2: he wanted me to live.
speaker1: why did he want you to live? a one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless rat-cripple? no, sir. why'
speaker2: edie.
speaker1: i don't buy that reform story for a minute. and even if i did, i certainly don't believe he would send you to protect her. so why?
speaker2: because he was my friend.
speaker1: no, verbal. you weren't friends. keaton didn't have friends. he saved you because he wanted it that way. it was his will.

speaker1: no... 
speaker2: keaton was keyser soze

speaker1: they found her yesterday in a hotel in pennsylvania. shot twice in the head. 
speaker2: edie...
speaker1: he used all of you to get him on that boat. he couldn't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. the one man that could identify him.
speaker2: this is all
speaker1: he left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. you saw him die, right? or did you? you had to hide when the first police cars showed up. you heard the shot, just before the fire but you didn't see him die.
speaker2: i knew him. he would never -
speaker1: he programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to. customs has been

speaker1: because you're a cripple, verbal. because you're stupid. because you were weaker than them. because you couldn't see far enough into him to know the truth. 
speaker1: if he's dead, verbal - if what you say is true, then it won't matter. it was his idea to hit the taxi service in new york, wasn't it? tell me the truth.
speaker2: it was all keaton. we followed him from the beginning.
speaker2: i didn't know. i saw him die. i believe he's dead. christ
speaker1: why lie about everything else, then?
speaker2: you know what it's like, agent kujan, to know you'll never be good? not good like you. you got good all around. i mean a stand up guy. i grew up knowing i was never going to be good at anything 'cause i was a cripple. i wasn't

speaker1: verbal 
speaker2: you're not safe on your own.
speaker3: you think he's..?
speaker2: is he keyser soze i don't know, verbal. it seems to me that keyser sate is a shield. like you said, a spook story, but i know keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you. stay here and let us protect you.
speaker3: i'm not bait. no way. i post today.
speaker2: you posted twenty minutes ago. captain leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
speaker3: i'11 take my chances, thank you. it's tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop.
speaker2: where are you going to go, verbal? you gonna run? turn states evidence. you might never see trial. if somebody wants to get you, you know they'll get you out there.
speaker3: maybe so, but i'm no rat, agent kujan. you tricked me, that's all. i won't keep my mouth shut 'cause i'm scared. i'11 keep it shut 'cause i let keaton down by getting caught - edie finneran too. and if they kill me, it's

speaker1: verbal 
speaker2: cops.

speaker1: you still don't know 
speaker2: i know what i wanted to know about keaton.
speaker1: which is
speaker2: no matter. he'll have to know how close we came.
speaker1: keyser sate or not, if keaton's alive he'll never come up again.
speaker2: i'11 find him.
speaker1: waste of time.
speaker2: a rumor is not a rumor that doesn't die.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: nothing. something i - forget it.
speaker2: man, you're a slob.
speaker1: yeah. it's got it's own system though. it all makes sense when you look at it right. you just have to step back from

speaker1: where is he? did you see him? t 
speaker2: the cripple? he went that way.

