speaker1: how's she doing? 
speaker2: she wants to lay down. i'm a little worried.
speaker1: well, i brung her something i know she likes.
speaker2: damn, fred, you can't give away all those.
speaker1: forget it. i got vegetables coming out my ears. usually the varmints eat up half my crop, but lately i ain't so much as
speaker1: we playing cards tonight?
speaker2: i think i'm gonna be sitting up with her.
speaker1: i'd do the same. well, catch you thursday.
speaker2: you bet.

speaker1: you 
speaker2: did it yesterday. franks and beans.
speaker1: no...it was eggs. i did eggs.
speaker2: you did. your turn.

speaker1: how many cows does it take to make a stampede? is it like three or more? is there a minimum speed? 
speaker1: if there was one nearby i'd probably ask him.
speaker2: i keep thinking, if we were but half serious about money, we should quit being hired hands and...
speaker1: handymen, earl. we're handymen.
speaker2: whatever the we are, we should quit and go get ourselves some real employment.
speaker1: what, and give up all this personal freedom?

speaker1: jeep trail gets worse every year. 
speaker2: has a lot of rain.
speaker2: you're gonna get us hung up.
speaker1: do not talk to the driver.

speaker1: uh...digging that waterhole for nestor. 
speaker2: burt and heather's place is closer. let's do their kitchen today. do nestor tomorrow.
speaker1: nestor's out of town tomorrow. we don't dig today. we don't get paid today. it, valentine, you never plan ahead. you never take the long view. hell, here it is monday and i'm already working on wednesday. it is monday, right?
speaker2: who the hell's that? that's not what's his name...the grad student?
speaker1: nah, it's september. must be the new one.
speaker2: the new one! that's supposed to be a girl!

speaker1: hi, i'm rhonda. rhonda lebeck. 
speaker2: yeah, geography.
speaker1: right, geology. and you have to be val and earl. i've heard all about you.
speaker3: we deny everything.
speaker1: listen, got a question for you. do you know if anybody is doing any blasting or drilling or anything like that?
speaker2: around here? why would they?
speaker1: well, i'm supposed monitor these seismographs. you know, they measure vibrations...
speaker2: yeah, vibrations in the ground.
speaker1: yeah, well, i'm getting what i refer to scientifically as "weird vibes." every sensor i've got is giving me strange readings. i mean, the school has had these machines up here three years and they've never recorded anything like this.
speaker3: well, we'll ask around. let you know if we hear of anything.
speaker1: thanks. i hope they're not screwed up. i might have to bag the whole semester. anyway, sorry to bother you.
speaker3: no problem. nice meeting you. hope you get it sorted out.

speaker1: you know, if you wanted, we could take a look at those seismographs for her. 
speaker2: what the do we know about seismographs?
speaker1: nothing. but it sure might be a nice way of getting to know her.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: goddamnit, valentine, you won't go for any gal unless she fits that list of yours a to z...
speaker2: well, sure.
speaker1: ...and is dumber than my hind end. like that bobby lynn dexter...
speaker2: tammy lynn baxter.
speaker1: don't matter. they're all the same: dead weight. can't make a decision, can't walk because of their shoes, can't work because of their fingernails. make my skin crawl!
speaker2: well, i'm a victim of circumstance.
speaker1: i thought you called it your pecker. look, don't make the mistake i made. twenty years of looking for a woman exactly like miss october 1968, and where'd it get me? here with you.

speaker1: no, pham, they're not hollow points. i ordered hollow points and that's what i want. 
speaker2: hi, guys, what you been up to?
speaker3: ran into the new college student, rona.
speaker4: rhonda. rhonda lebeck. she's getting some kind of strange readings on her things.
speaker1: damn, you know, those kids turn up oil or uranium or something out there...next thing the feds will be at our door. "sorry, time to move.
speaker2: down, honey, down.
speaker3: yeah, burt. the way you worry, you're gonna have a heart attack before you get to survive world war

speaker1: hey val, listen. bearing going out, you think? 
speaker2: could be.
speaker3: catch it later, pham. gotta get over to nestor's.
speaker2: right. we plan ahead. that way we don't do anything right now. earl explained it to me.
speaker4: a beauty, isn't it? we bought three of them for the rec room.
speaker2: we sell 'em to you for three bucks a piece!
speaker1: and i appreciate it.
speaker2: you don't get it, pham. the idea was: we were ripping you off. suddenly a car alarm blares from outside. burt's out the door in a flash. the others follow.

speaker1: melvin, you little pain-in-the-ass! 
speaker2: it wasn't me, man! your truck's just screwed up, that's all.
speaker3: why don't his parents ever take him to vegas with them?
speaker4: you gotta ask

speaker1: it came out great, boys. should fill up just fine come the next rain. lemme have your bill. 
speaker2: yeah, nestor, we know. don't worry about it. catch us when you can.
speaker3: no, we're not too easy-going. this area is economically depressed.
speaker2: so what if we just did it...today. pack up. drive straight down to bixby. get serious.
speaker3: we could. we could. but we'd have to get
speaker3: car wash?! that's got no future. if we're gonna take the plunge we oughta have a better plan than that.
speaker2: yeah, sure. go ahead and plan it...for a year or two.

speaker1: stop it! stop it, you horrid animal! i'm going to give her back to my son. i swear it. 
speaker2: hey, viola, you've got my permission.
speaker3: almighty, my mama sure didn't raise me for this. val gets up and starts the pump's gas engine.
speaker2: well,
speaker2: what keeps us doing jobs like this is you dragging your feet. i was up for going to bixby. i was getting excited.
speaker3: in the past year i must've said a hundred times "we gotta get out of perfection. we gotta better ourselves." you gonna stand there in broad daylight and tell me you think i'm the reason we're still here? you want to know how close i am to going to bixby right

speaker1: uh oh, it's nancy. she wants another load of firewood. 
speaker2: forget it, man. it's not worth it.
speaker1: she's got us. now, listen, the plan is: we have done our last job in perfection.
speaker2: that's the plan.
speaker3: mindy, honey, don't pogo in the street. hey, guys, i've got a job for you...
speaker1: sorry, nancy. we ain't doing odd jobs anymore. we're headed for bixby permanent.
speaker3: oh, sure... ...my you really are!
speaker2: yep, we're relocating to an area with a greater economic base. hey, mindy, what's the count?
speaker4: six hundred three, six hundred four, six hundred five...
speaker2: go for it!
speaker3: gee, guys. i made the big decision. i'm putting in that satellite dish. i was going to offer you five hundred dollars.

speaker1: we did it! we faced temptation and we did not bend! 
speaker2: straight! now there's nothing between us and bixby but nothing! they zoom past the sign. val last time we'll see that sign!
speaker1: last time we hit that pothole!

speaker1: so long, cactus! 
speaker2: adios, bridge!

speaker1: okay, here's the plan. we bust our tails in the car wash six months... well, maybe nine...and we don't spend a 
speaker1: one job i'd never take is working around electricity.
speaker2: especially when it's two hundred feet off the ground. but as the pass the tower: val hey, hold up...that's edgar deems!
speaker1: you're full of
speaker2: he's only got one jacket.

speaker1: real sorry to bother you, megan, but we figured since jim's a doctor... 
speaker2: no, it's fine. you did the right thing. when jim is done we'll call the coroner's office in bixby. we'll take care of it. poor edgar.
speaker3: well, i see you got all the wallboard up.
speaker2: that was easy. you two did the hard part. sure sorry you're leaving.
speaker3: was is a heart attack?
speaker4: he died of dehydration. thirst.
speaker1: but that doesn't make sense. that takes a couple of days, doesn't it?
speaker4: three or four even.
speaker3: you mean he sat up there three or four

speaker1: reckon he hated perfection more than us? you suppose he 
speaker1: maybe he just couldn't pull the trigger...
speaker2: oh sure, he figured it was easier to die of thirst? come on, sombody must've chased him up there.
speaker1: oh, you mean somebody who ain't scared of a twelve gauge shotgun. and then what did they do? camp out down below and just wait for him to die?
speaker2: well, whatever the happened it's just one more good reason to haul out of this place.
speaker1: you got that right.
speaker2: probably up a pole starving itself to death.
speaker1: okay, the plan is: pedal to the metal the whole way. we don't stop till we hit the carwash, not even to pee.
speaker2: i'll go with that plan.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker1: what the hell...?
speaker1: hey, old fred! fred! where are you?!
speaker2: not here.
speaker2: oh, jesus!!
speaker1: what the is going on? i mean what the

speaker1: you guys better get the outta here! we got a killer on the loose! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: a
speaker2: yeah...
speaker2: carmine! what the is it?! where are you?

speaker1: his head? you mean 
speaker2: something happen to fred?
speaker3: are you serious, man? they killed him just to take his
speaker4: what happened to edgar?
speaker5: i don't believe this. the phone is out! pham, your phone is out!
speaker2: i didn't do it! what's going on?

speaker1: we've gotta get the police up here. you guys gotta step on it to bixby. 
speaker2: consider it stepped on.
speaker2: brother, we decided to leave this place just one day too late, you know?
speaker3: well, there's sure as nothing to stop us now. everybody we know between here and bixby is already dead.

speaker1: is some higher force at work, here? are we asking too much of life? 
speaker2: those are supposed to be
speaker2: i don't
speaker2: i am not!
speaker1: you're hung up i tell you. you're gonna burn the clutch.
speaker2: you!
speaker1: hey, i don't want spend the night out here!

speaker1: what the you doing back already? 
speaker2: you're never going to believe this, but the canyon road...we were on it not two hours ago...well, it's completely...
speaker3: my god...!
speaker4: unreal! where'd you get it?
speaker2: uh...didn't know we had it...
speaker3: it's disgusting.
speaker5: looks like...and eel.
speaker6: naw...eels live in water.
speaker2: so...it's some kind of snake?
speaker7: or a big mother slug maybe?
speaker1: some kind of mutation...?
speaker8: don't touch, don't touch.
speaker1: it's dead all right. tore the thing in half.
speaker7: it must've grabbed us. that's why the truck stalled-out.
speaker2: yeah! next time i tell you i'm not hung up...!
speaker1: stalled out your truck? have to be one strong son of a
speaker8: i give you boys five dollars for it.
speaker2: twenty.
speaker8: okay, ten dollars.
speaker7: fifteen.
speaker8: okay, fifteen.
speaker2: right fifteen.
speaker1: just one of these couldn't eat up off a whole flock of sheep. there's gotta be more out there, a lot more.

speaker1: slick as snot and i'm not lying. 
speaker2: fifteen lousy bucks.
speaker1: a man who plans ahead.
speaker3: ...look, we organize, we arm ourselves. we go out, we find those snake things, we make 'em extinct.
speaker4: come on, burt, we don't even know what they are.
speaker5: might be aliens. who knows?
speaker6: why go looking for trouble?
speaker3: miguel, the trouble's come to us.
speaker7: phone's out. road's out. we're on our own.
speaker8: and you two just love it, don't you?
speaker7: come on, nancy, don't let's get personal. we need to do something.
speaker3: right. you folks gotta analyze the situation. with that road out we're completely cut off. got the cliffs to the north, mountains east and west. that's why heather and me settled here in the first place, geographic isolation.
speaker8: well...there must be dome way to get help.
speaker5: yes, that's what i say.
speaker3: how, for chrissake? you gonna walk thirty-eight miles to bixby?
speaker6: hey, what about pham van's saddle horses?
speaker9: you're welcome to them. does anybody know how to ride?

speaker1: i'm dead. let's finish in the morning. 
speaker2: we have to go into bixby in the morning. the concrete blocks are in.
speaker1: the con...! oh my
speaker2: just keep looking at that beautiful sky.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: that's the sky that's going to be over our roof every night, when we're done.
speaker2: we could always buy a new generator.
speaker2: well, what's wrong with it?
speaker1: it's...gone...!

speaker1: you sure this is where it was? 
speaker2: am i sure?!
speaker1: well don't then! you don't want to fall in.
speaker2: what the...?
speaker1: come on. get away from it!
speaker2: what a stink!
speaker1: never

speaker1: pham, we don't want to be stuck on a couple of canners. they better be fast. 
speaker2: relax. a snake thing like that couldn't move too quick.
speaker1: screw you. for all you know they could
speaker1: the rifle.
speaker3: you guys all set?
speaker2: ready as we'll ever be.
speaker3: heather and i are going to drive around a little, see if we can find that college girl and tell her to get her back into town.
speaker1: good idea. and we'll swing by the doctor's place. they were going to go into bixby but we don't know if they left before the road was out.
speaker4: hold on. you guys oughta take something that packs more punch than that thirty-thirty. take one of our browning autos, or even my model seventy... it's three-seventy-five h and h mag.
speaker2: gee...thanks, heather. hope we don't need it.
speaker5: it's got me! it's got me! aaaahgh!
speaker3: you stupid punk! you came
speaker3: well...you fellas watch yourselves.
speaker6: come back with the sheriff.
speaker7: sheriff, like hell. come back with the national guard.

speaker1: you know, we can't possibly make bixby by nightfall. 
speaker1: that means we're gonna be out here, like, in the dark.
speaker2: great. thank you.
speaker2: hey, doctor, anybody here?
speaker1: car's gone. we just missed them, that's all.
speaker2: then where's the conway twitty coming from?

speaker1: shut up! they got wind of something they don't like! 
speaker2: oh
speaker1: yeah...yeah. what about the hor...?
speaker2: that's how they get you! they're under the
speaker2: sons of bitches!
speaker2: it's gaining on us!!

speaker1: we can do it, we can do it! 
speaker1: stupid son of a bitch...knocked itself cold.
speaker2: cold, my ass! it's dead! we killed the bastard!
speaker3: hi, guys, how're you doing? look, can i ask you something? did you just notice something weird? vibrations? you know, some kind of earth tremor?

speaker1: christ...think it smells like that 'cause it's dead? 
speaker2: i don't see any eyes...must be totally subterranean...and those tentacles...
speaker1: i think they shoot right outta its mouth, hook you, and pull you right in. good thing we stopped it before it killed anybody else.
speaker2: yeah, i'm lucky it didn't find
speaker1: this is one big mother!
speaker3: so this is the guy that had your seismos working overtime?
speaker3: naw, don't want to winch it. that'd tear it all up. want to lift it. some kind of crane with lifting straps.
speaker2: hey, hey, shut up! the way i figure it. there are five more of these things!
speaker1: five more?
speaker2: yeah, darn it, look. i've got seismographs all over the valley. if you compare the different readings, there have to be five. here's one at two o'clock yesterday, but here's another one three miles away at the same time. so that's two. now, here...
speaker3: we'll take your word for it.
speaker1: yeah. where's your truck?
speaker2: the other side of that dome.

speaker1: prairie dog burrow... 
speaker2: little sons of

speaker1: well, at least the can't climb. pardon my french. 
speaker2: probably couldn't move too easily on the surface.
speaker3: the live ones smell worse tan the dead ones.
speaker1: okay, now, how far's your truck?
speaker3: i don't know. if this one's any faster than that other one...
speaker1: i think we wait right here.

speaker1: there's nothing like them in the fossil record, i'm sure...okay, so they predate the fossil record... that'd make them a couple of billion years old...and we've just never seen one till now. right. 
speaker2: i'd vote for outer space. no way those are local boys.
speaker3: atomic testing. or, no, bio- engineering! the government built them, a
speaker3: maybe it is. why don't you take a little stroll and see?
speaker2: you, too. pardon my french.
speaker1: well, we've got to do
speaker3: son of a
speaker2: son of a
speaker1: of course! it can sense the slightest seismic vibration...hear every move we make. especially on this rock. it's a perfect conductor.

speaker1: you know, i hate to be crude, but i'm gonna have to take care of some business here. 
speaker2: me, too.
speaker3: same here.
speaker3: darn it!
speaker2: you okay?
speaker3: yeah. but i'll tell you, if you ever wanted proof is a man, this is it.

speaker1: thanks. val glances at earl, who looks away. who, me? 
speaker2: no problem. anytime.
speaker3: well, folks, what's the plan?
speaker2: first let's see if stumpy's still out there.
speaker3: don't he have a home to go to?
speaker2: well, that's why edgar never got down off that tower.
speaker1: i might have an idea...
speaker3: we're gonna have to come up with some kind of plan or it's just gonna wait us to death.
speaker1: well, i was wondering if we could...
speaker2: well, let's just run for it. we outran that one yesterday, at least on a sprint.
speaker3: run for it? running's not a plan. running is what you do when the plan fails. you're not even trying to come up with a plan!
speaker2: well, it's not like we've got a of a lot of options...

speaker1: think it's still following us? 
speaker2: let's assume that it is.
speaker3: and once we hit that truck we gotta go fast. i say we all jump together.
speaker2: ready?
speaker1: yeah. one, two, three...

speaker1: we better get everybody together. 
speaker2: you go north, i'll go south.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: i'll bet you're sorry the college ever sent you up here.
speaker3: well, i'm scared, but i'm not sorry.
speaker2: you know, val went to that college, too. for a whole year. couldn't quite sit still for it, though. had too much vinegar in his system. but once he settles down, forgets this cowboy stuff, he'll be one in a million.

speaker1: you serious, val? you think we're not even safe here in town? 
speaker2: ask me that after you meet one. i think we should all get the out while the getting's good.
speaker3: why not just take a number ten pick axe and give it one good whack...?
speaker2: nestor, it, these things are bigger than an airstream trailer!
speaker4: i've got to find mindy.
speaker5: hey, pham, where's burt and heather?
speaker6: can't raise them. i guess they're still out there somewhere.
speaker7: if you've got a radio, why aren't you calling somebody in bixby? the police or...
speaker6: can't reach outside the valley.
speaker1: hey, rhonda, what's the name you call those things, huh?
speaker6: where'd they come from?
speaker7: huh? i don't know.
speaker6: you're a scientist, right?
speaker8: you should have a theory at least.
speaker7: look, these things are absolutely unprecedented!
speaker3: yeah, but where'd they come from?
speaker7: where'd they come from? okay, worms, probably in the jurassic period. cosmic radiation was much higher then...so they mutated...and they got so big they just sank right into the ground and fell asleep... but now continental drift has brought them to the surface, ready to be harvested by the ancient alien meat growers who planted them here. everybody stares at her, then they smile, realizing she's pulling their legs.
speaker5: you're right, don't matter where they come from.
speaker2: right. we need to be talking about what we're gonna do.
speaker8: my goodness, valentine, once they see the road is out and the phone lines are down, someone will be along to look in on us. don't you think?

speaker1: no no no, they 
speaker2: they caught up with edgar here. they grabbed old fred here. they nailed the dog here. and the doctor's place is here...
speaker3: you little wipe! you knock that off or you're gonna be that basketball! pardon my french.
speaker4: now, val, let's assume they're as dangerous as you say. where are we going to go that's safer than right here?
speaker2: rhonda's got an idea about that.
speaker1: yes, see, they move very easily through the pleistocene alluvials... ...the dirt...the loose soil that makes up the valley floor. but they can't move through solid rock. i think we should travel west to the mountains.
speaker3: you know, up the jeep trail.
speaker1: the mountains are solid granite. we'd be safe there, and we could hike along them...all the way to bixby if we have to.

speaker1: no, valentine, i'm not leaving my place. 
speaker2: well, it's gonna take us days to get back with help.
speaker3: doggone it, viola, it's just plain crazy to stay.

speaker1: i'm gonna kick his ass! 
speaker2: i'm gonna help you.

speaker1: christ! man, you gut a gun?! 
speaker2: big as a house! what are we gonna do...?!
speaker3: quiet! quiet!!
speaker3: remember...no noise. no vibration.

speaker1: oww! val, you hurt me...! 
speaker2: go back, for chrissake!
speaker3: we gotta get him off there. it'll that truck down!
speaker3: oh, rhonda, another one!

speaker1: come on! come on! don't look back! just run! run like screaming 
speaker1: pardon my french.

speaker1: you paying attention? this oughta hurt like hell. 
speaker2: it does. she smiles at him. rhonda so, is that one of your usual jobs, saving peoples' lives?
speaker1: first time for me.
speaker2: oh, thank you.
speaker3: they got the patience of job. they just sit and wait til they hear something that sounds like lunch. we need a plan.
speaker4: i've got a plan. you and val take your truck, get to the mountains.
speaker1: those scumsuckers are my radials, pham!
speaker2: well, we can take my truck then.
speaker3: no good. you need major four- wheel-drive just to get up that jeep trail.

speaker1: shut it up! shut the little up! 
speaker2: chuck him out the door! like a little hors d'oeuvre.

speaker1: get away! get away! oh in heaven, help me! 
speaker2: oh my
speaker3: son of a bitchin' lowlife, putrid, scum...
speaker4: gotta do something. gotta get the bastards!
speaker5: man, what the can we
speaker6: now wait a minute, earl. i got enough food here to last us for weeks. those things can't wait around forever. we can do it. i mean, if we have to, right?
speaker3: shut it off!
speaker4: everybody! this way! the roof!
speaker4: rhonda! keep moving. don't stop!

speaker1: hey! what's going on, man?! what the you doing up there...?! 
speaker2: melvin, shut the up!

speaker1: get up on your roof! on your roof! they can come through the floor! 
speaker2: can't you shout a little quieter?

speaker1: i can't believe it. no tracks, no sign, no spoor. 
speaker2: yeah, whatever they are, you'd think after they ate all those sheep they'd have to take a dump someplace... what the hell's going on in town?

speaker1: hey, here's the plan: nestor's cadillac. his tires are nine hundred sixteens. we sprint for it, grab the spare, put it on our truck with our spare. 
speaker2: how the long it take
speaker2: we need another plan.
speaker3: yo, p.v., burt here. come back.

speaker1: negative copy on that, pham, check your frequency. i'm on forty-nine. 
speaker2: burt, can you hear me now?
speaker1: just barely, pham. what are you all doing up on your roofs. what the hell's going on? come back.

speaker1: oh man, they're going, man! i think they're going for burt! 
speaker2: burt! this is val! get out of your basement!! take your radio! you and heather get up on your roof! then we'll talk, okay?!
speaker3: val? what the you doing back already?
speaker2: burt, get out! get up on your roof or someplace! we found out what's been killing people! they're under the ground!
speaker3: what's under the ground? we're not getting up on the roof. earth shelter's the best. known that since i was a kid.
speaker2: listen! listen! we know what they are! they're big things under the ground! much bigger than we thought! they're coming after you!

speaker1: we don't see anything, val. now what the are you talking about? over. 
speaker2: they're coming
speaker1: chri...!

speaker1: they got one! they killed one of the sons of bitches! 
speaker2: way to go, dudes!

speaker1: well, i guess we don't get to make fun of burt's lifestyle anymore, huh? 
speaker2: burt, any chance you can get the rest of them?

speaker1: one second, val. 
speaker2: you're not getting any penetration, even with the elephant gun.
speaker1: val, we can't get them. never figured on having to shoot through dirt! best bullet stop there is. come back.

speaker1: okay, burt, listen. forget shooting them. tell me this: can you get to your truck? 
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: good. you've got the only truck in the valley that can make it up that jeep trail. so, here's the plan: you and heather go for help. get to the mountains...
speaker3: hey, guys! they're up to something.
speaker4: what's it doing?
speaker3: why do you all keep asking me?
speaker5: hey, there's another one coming!
speaker1: what the was

speaker1: they weren't making no noise. 
speaker2: they're studying the buildings... trying to figure them out.
speaker3: yeah, they're confused. they can feel our vibrations, but they can't find us.
speaker2: they're working together, too.
speaker4: yeah, like they got a plan...
speaker5: breaker there, earl. what do you want us to do?
speaker4: hang on, burt. the are up to something.

speaker1: burt! heather! 
speaker2: yeah, val.
speaker1: we're in deep over here. let's change that plan.
speaker2: knock it off, burt!
speaker3: i think i scared it!
speaker1: forget going for help. we'll all be dead long before you get back.
speaker2: we're here, val. just tell us what you need. come back.
speaker1: they're tearing down the houses here! we all gotta get outta here together! now!
speaker2: we're with you, val. we'll come get everybody. just hang on tight.

speaker1: val, we're going to have to forget about the truck... 
speaker2: hey, you better think of
speaker2: you and val, man!
speaker3: what?!! since when the hell's every thing up to us?!
speaker4: we don't have a of a lot of time here.
speaker5: look, the situation hasn't changed. we still have to get to solid rock.
speaker3: we need a helicopter is what we need, or a tank...
speaker4: wait a minute...the cat. could we take the cat?
speaker3: it's slower than hell.
speaker4: yeah, but it weighs better than thirty tons. no way they could stop it.
speaker6: we can't all fit on that bulldozer.
speaker3: but...we could pull something! we could, i don't know, drag a car behind it!
speaker4: a car, huh? like a big armored car? need something bigger, tougher...our truck maybe...or, hell, that old semi trailer!
speaker3: its tires are flat...
speaker4: doesn't matter. the cat can pull
speaker3: yeah, good! something to keep them busy. we need a decoy.
speaker4: hey, melvin, you wanna make a buck?
speaker2: you!
speaker6: hey, how about the tractor? start him up. let him go by itself. let those things chase it all over is they like that noise.
speaker4: not bad. what do you think?
speaker3: i think the ground's getting closer. i think we do it. we're gonna save our here!
speaker5: wait! how are you going to know they're all following it?
speaker3: good point.
speaker4: we got two right here.
speaker7: there's one. i think one.
speaker4: burt, heather, we got a little sort of a plan going here, maybe. can you tell if you've still got any of those things out at your place?

speaker1: yeah, still got one poking around. 
speaker2: that's four. let us know if it starts moving, burt.
speaker1: roger that.

speaker1: it's going... there goes this one! it's going! 
speaker2: hey, this guy just took off like a shot. what'd you people do?
speaker3: watch your ass, shithead.
speaker4: don't worry about me, jerkoff.

speaker1: we got about three seconds! 
speaker2: well, come on!

speaker1: let's go you two. we're headed for the mountains. 
speaker2: in a minute.
speaker1: come on, burt, we can't hold still long. they're smart and getting smarter by the minute.
speaker2: that's fine. we've got some new things to teach them.
speaker1: it! they'll sink this rig just like a boat!
speaker3: see that? they're doing it now! they try it every time we hold still.
speaker1: christ, we're only going nine miles. be there in two hours, tops!
speaker2: yeah, well those things are gonna be on our every foot of the way, right?
speaker2: what do you think? max firepower or...?
speaker4: i'd go for penetration. the 458 shooting solids -- less ammo to carry anyway.
speaker5: come on! who cares! forget it! let's go!
speaker6: give me a gun! i'll take one!
speaker2: i wouldn't give

speaker1: any sign of'em? 
speaker2: maybe they just gave up, you know.
speaker3: yeah, the bulldozer's too much for them, man.
speaker4: there we go, solid rock!
speaker5: what's that?

speaker1: is it them? 
speaker2: what else could it be?
speaker3: what're they doing?
speaker4: maybe they're taking a dump.
speaker5: we're not going over there, right?
speaker6: no. we go straight.
speaker7: it. what the are they doing? they're up to something.
speaker6: i don't care what they're doing as long as they're doing it way over there.

speaker1: they...they dug a trap! i can't believe this! 
speaker2: hungry?! eat this!!

speaker1: hey, burt...did you get one...! 
speaker2: no, there's still four of them. see...there's like four different dust trails.
speaker3: sure got their attention, though. nice going, burt. earl, what about the cat? earl's already staring down at the bulldozer.
speaker4: no way. it's down for the count.

speaker1: here they come! they're coming back! 
speaker2: come on, everybody! we gotta run for those rocks over there!
speaker3: val, it's pretty far.
speaker4: yeah, man! they'll get us!
speaker2: there sure as get us if we stay here!
speaker1: wait, wait, listen. burt do you have any more of those things?
speaker5: the bombs? right i do.
speaker1: well, what is you throw one
speaker1: i don't think it does scare them!
speaker2: right. we're gonna run. get ready. val squats in front of tear-streaked mindy. val mindy, you understand what we're going to do? and don't worry, they can't get us once we're on those rocks.
speaker4: i don't know, man. they're too fast! you can't outrun them, no way!
speaker5: here, kid. this'll make'em think twice.
speaker1: it worked! there they go!

speaker1: you asshole! there's no bullets in this gun! 
speaker2: got you moving, didn't it?
speaker3: so...now what?
speaker4: could we make it to the mountains?
speaker5: no way. we'd need fifty of those things.
speaker3: well...that's it. we're not getting off this rock...
speaker5: not going to pole vault anywhere.
speaker6: what's the matter with you? what are you talking about?!
speaker4: they'll just wait out there till we're dead. that's what they do.
speaker2: what? well, for chrissake, we could have made a stand at our place! we had food, water...
speaker3: you can't fight'em that way...
speaker2: you two jackasses hauled us way the out here...!?

speaker1: well, who put you two in charge? 
speaker2: burt! those animals would have killed you! everyone stares in surprise at normally quiet nancy. nancy you haven't seen what they can do.
speaker3: they'd have dug your place out from under you in half an hour! there's a long, grim silence. everyone sits glumly.
speaker1: if it comes to starvation, i know what
speaker4: you know, that's not a bad idea!
speaker4: no, i mean, it gives me an idea...

speaker1: there! right straight out in front of you. 
speaker2: how much you think?
speaker3: i don't know... they're pretty quick...fifteen seconds?
speaker3: what the is that, anyway?
speaker2: cannon fuse.
speaker3: what do
speaker1: come on, you're not going to do your lasso thing...?
speaker3: hey, just 'cause you're no good with a rope...
speaker4: come on...come on...
speaker2: take it...take the bait...

speaker1: i'll make'em pay attention goddamnit... 
speaker2: they're...they're trying to make us move!
speaker3: or just knock us over. look, use the bomb!
speaker2: it's out last one. we can't kill them all.
speaker3: use the bomb!
speaker2: so, we get back on that rock and in three days we're dead anyway.
speaker2: no wait! this way!
speaker3: what the are you doing?!!

speaker1: this better be one great plan! 
speaker2: get ready!
speaker1: light it, man! light it!!
speaker2: not yet, not yet...

speaker1: look! 
speaker2: road's in!
speaker3: road's in! now, soon as we hit bixby we start making phone calls. we could make some real money off this whole thing, get in

speaker1: yeah...but no ties. 
speaker2: no ties.
speaker3: hi, guys. burt loaned me his camera.
speaker1: howdy, rhonda.
speaker3: you're really leaving, huh?
speaker1: you bet. you gonna be staying up here?
speaker3: well, yeah! there's going to be major research up here. first thing is to get some pictures of that one we dug up.
speaker2: well...you're welcome.
speaker1: christ, val, maybe she's not your type, but you could, at least, be civil.
speaker2: civil? i'm civil.
speaker1: you're not civil, you're glum. we got the world by the tail with a downhill pull and all of a sudden you go glum on me. earl freezes as a bell goes off in his head. earl oh my she got to you. you
speaker1: she just practically asked you for a date. what the is wrong?!
speaker2: earl, get real. what does she need with a guy like me?
speaker1: what was that? all this time she's not good enough for you. now, suddenly, you're not good enough for her? my work is never done.
speaker1: fine, make the mistakes i did. i think i'll just be playing this hand myself.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she likes
speaker1: oh yeah? think about this: she ain't as narrow-minded as you. i'll lay odds she's looking for character in a man. for my part, i'd be proud to have her. i'd worship her. earl hops into the truck. earl i'm going out there right now, help her take those pictures...set up her seismo-jiggers. whatever she wants. who the

