speaker1: home of imhotep, high priest of osiris, keeper of the dead. 
speaker1: birthplace of anck-su-namun. pharaoh's mistress. no other man was allowed to touch her.
speaker1: but for our love, we were willing to risk life itself.

speaker1: imhotep?... my priest. 
speaker2: pharaoh's bodyguards!
speaker3: you must go. save yourself. only you can resurrect me.
speaker3: my body is no longer his temple!
speaker4: for murdering pharaoh, anck-su-namun's body was to be cursed. and it was i, the high priest, whose duty it was to curse it.

speaker1: her body was mummified, her vital organs removed and placed in sacred canopic jars. 
speaker1: the book of the living contained sacred incantations that would send the evil dead on a journey into the dark underworld.
speaker1: the slaves were killed...
speaker1: ...and the soldiers who killed them were also slain, so that no unholy person should ever know the exact location of the burial site.

speaker1: but there was another book, the book of the dead, which was never to be opened, never to be read, for it contained the incantations that could bring a dead body back to life a most unholy thing. 
speaker1: it was hidden at hamunaptra, city of the dead, inside the statue of anubis, so that no such sacrilege might ever disgrace egypt.

speaker1: anck-su-namun's vital organs were still fresh, so a human sacrifice would not need be made. 
speaker1: anck-su-namun soul had come back from the dead! now all that was needed, was to return her organs to their rightful place within her body.
speaker1: my priests were condemned to be mummified alive.

speaker1: as for me, i was condemned to endure the hom-dai. the worst of all ancient curses. one so horrible, it had never before been bestowed. 
speaker1: by eating the sacred scarabs, i would be cursed to stay alive forever. and by eating me, they were cursed just the same.
speaker1: i was to remain sealed inside my sarcophagus, the undead for all of eternity.

speaker1: they would never allow me to be released. for i would arise a walking disease, a plague upon mankind, an unholy flesh-eater, with the strength of ages, power over the sands, and the glory of invincibility. 
speaker1: and if i could raise my beloved anck- su-namun from her place in hell, together, we would be an unstoppable infection upon this world. the apocalypse. the end.

speaker1: i knew this was gonna be a lousy day. 
speaker2: personally, i would like to surrender. why can we not just surrender?
speaker1: shut-up and gimme your bandolier.
speaker2: then let's run away. right now. while we can still make it.
speaker1: now gimme your revolver, you'll never use it anyway.
speaker2: then let's play dead, huh? nobody ever does that anymore.
speaker1: now go find me a big stick.
speaker2: in the desert? what for?
speaker1: so i can tie it to your back, you appear to be without a spine.
speaker1: how'd a guy like you end up in the legion anyways?
speaker2: i got caught robbing a synagogue. lots of good stuff in them holy places; churches, temples, mosques, and who's guarding them?
speaker1: altar boys?
speaker2: exactly! i speak seven languages, including hebrew, so my specialty was synagogues. how about you? kill somebody?
speaker1: no, but i'm considering it.
speaker2: what then? robbery? extortion? kidnapping!
speaker1: none of the above, thank you.
speaker2: then what the are you doing here!?
speaker1: i was just looking for a good time.
speaker1: oh steady!

speaker1: son-of-a-bitch. 
speaker1: hey! beni! wait up!
speaker1: what are ya doing?! wait up!
speaker1: don't you close that door! don't you

speaker1: oops. 
speaker2: look at this! sons of the messiah! give me frogs, flies, locusts, anything but this! compared to you, the other plagues were a joy!
speaker1: i'm sorry, it was an accident.
speaker2: when ramesses destroyed syria, it was an accident. you are a catastrophe! why do i put up with you?
speaker1: you put up with me, because i can read and write ancient egyptian, decipher hieroglyphs and hieratic, and i'm the only person within a thousand miles who knows how to properly code and catalogue this library.
speaker2: who needs smart women? i put up with you because your mother and father were our finest patrons, allah rest their souls. now straighten up this mess!
speaker1: hello?
speaker1: abdul? mohammed? bob? evelyn walks through the stacks and enters --

speaker1: you...! you...! 
speaker2: drunkard? fool? rat-bastard? please call me something original.
speaker1: have you no respect for the dead?
speaker2: right now, i only wish to join them.
speaker1: well i wish you'd do it sooner rather than later, before you ruin my career the way you've ruined yours.
speaker2: my dear, sweet, baby sister, i'll have you know, that at this moment my career is on a high note.
speaker1: high note? ha! for five years you've been scrounging around egypt, and what have you to show for it? nothing.
speaker2: oh yes i do! i have something right here!
speaker1: oh no, not another worthless trinket, jonathan, if i bring one more piece of junk to the curator to try and sell for you.
speaker1: where did you get this?
speaker2: on a dig, down in thebes.
speaker2: my whole life i've never found anything, evy. tell me i've found something.
speaker1: jonathan?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i think you found something.

speaker1: see the cartouche there, it's the official royal seal of seti the first, i'm sure of it. 
speaker2: perhaps.
speaker3: two questions. who the is seti the first? and was he rich?
speaker1: he was the last pharaoh of the old kingdom, said to be the wealthiest pharaoh of them all.
speaker3: alright, good, that's good. i like this fellow, like him very much.
speaker1: i've already dated it, this map is almost four thousand years old. and the hieratics over here... it's hamunaptra.
speaker2: my dear girl, don't be ridiculous, we are scholars, not treasure hunters. hamunaptra is a myth.
speaker3: are we talking about the hamunaptra?
speaker1: yes. the city of the dead. where the early pharaohs were said to have hidden the wealth of egypt.
speaker3: right, right, in a big underground treasure chamber. everybody knows the story. the entire necropolis was rigged to sink into the sand. on pharaoh's command, a flick of the switch! and the whole place could disappear beneath the dunes.
speaker1: all we know is that the city mysteriously vanished around 2,134

speaker1: as the americans would say: it's all fairy tales and hokum. 
speaker2: you burned it! you burned off the part with the lost city!
speaker1: it's for the best, i'm sure. many men have wasted their lives in the foolish pursuit of hamunaptra, no one has ever found it, most have never returned.
speaker2: you killed my map.
speaker1: i'm sure it was a fake, anyway, i'm surprised at you, miss carnarvon, to be so fooled.

speaker1: you told me you found it on a dig down in thebes! 
speaker2: i was mistaken.
speaker1: you lied to me!
speaker2: i lie to everybody, what makes you so special?
speaker1: i'm your sister.
speaker2: that just makes you more gullible.
speaker1: you stole it from a drunk at the local casbah?!
speaker2: picked his pocket, actually.

speaker1: and what is he in prison for? 
speaker2: i did not know, so when i heard you were coming, i asked him that myself.
speaker1: and what did he say?
speaker2: he said... he was just looking for a good time.
speaker1: but he's just a filthy criminal?
speaker3: way to go, evy.
speaker4: so who's the broad?
speaker1: broad?!
speaker3: she's my sister, actually.
speaker4: yeah? well,... i'm sure she's not a total loss.
speaker2: i'll be back in a moment.
speaker1: we uh,... found... your puzzle box, and we've come to ask you about it.
speaker4: no.
speaker1: no?
speaker4: no... you came to ask me about hamunaptra.
speaker1: how do you know the box pertains to hamunaptra?
speaker4: because that's where i found it. i was there.
speaker3: how do we know that's not a load of pig swallow?
speaker4: hey,... don't i know you?
speaker3: um, well, you see...
speaker1: you were actually at hamunaptra?
speaker4: i just decked your brother
speaker1: yes, well... i know my brother.
speaker4: yeah, i was there.
speaker1: you swear?
speaker4: every day.
speaker1: no, i mean --
speaker4: -- i know what you mean. i was there, alright. seti's place. the city of the dead.
speaker1: what did you find? what did you see?
speaker4: i found sand. i saw death.
speaker1: could you tell me how to get there? the exact location?
speaker4: want to know?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: really want to know?
speaker1: yes.
speaker4: then get me the outta here.
speaker1: where are they taking him?
speaker2: to be hanged.
speaker2: apparently, he had a very good time.

speaker1: no women allowed. 
speaker2: i am an english woman.
speaker2: i will give you one hundred pounds to spare his life.
speaker1: i would pay one hundred pounds just to see him hang.
speaker2: two hundred pounds.
speaker1: proceed!
speaker2: three hundred pounds!
speaker3: any last requests, pig?
speaker4: yeah, i'd like ya to let me go.

speaker1: his neck did not break! good! now we watch him strangle to death. 
speaker2: he knows the location to hamunaptra.
speaker1: you lie.
speaker2: i would never!
speaker1: are you saying this filthy godless son of a pig knows where to find the city of the dead? truly?
speaker2: yes and if you cut him down, we will give you ten percent.
speaker1: fifty percent.
speaker2: twenty.
speaker1: forty.
speaker3: give... give him... give him glaaaa--

speaker1: twenty-five percent, and not one single farthing more. 
speaker2: candle light flickers across the curator's face.
speaker3: she must die.
speaker4: she is like all the others. she will die in the desert.
speaker3: no! she has seen too much. she knows too much.
speaker3: not only does she have a map, but she has the key.
speaker4: the key!? she has the lost key!?
speaker3: yes. no one has ever had so much, been so close. we must stop her, or it will be the end of us all.
speaker4: then we will kill her, we will kill her and all those with her.
speaker3: and burn the map and retrieve the key.
speaker4: it will be done. but what of the american expedition? they leave tomorrow as well.
speaker3: forget the bumbling americans, they will be like all the others. without the map to guide them, how can they possibly find hamunaptra?
speaker5: it is three days down the nile, then two days by camel, sahibs.
speaker6: for all the money we're paying you, something better well be under that sand.
speaker7: "hamunaptra," daniels, that's all ya gotta keep sayin, to yourself, "hamunaptra."
speaker1: do you really think he'll show up?
speaker8: undoubtedly, i know the breed, he may be a cowboy, but his word is his word.
speaker1: personally, i think he's filthy, rude and a complete scoundrel. i don't like him one bit.
speaker9: anyone i know?
speaker1: oh... um,... hello.
speaker8: smashing day for the start of an adventure, eh, o'connell?
speaker9: yeah, sure, smashing.
speaker10: you're sure hamunaptra is out there?
speaker5: along with the scorched bones of my entire garrison, sahib.
speaker5: a thousand pardons, my good sahibs but there is much work to be done.
speaker1: mister o'connell, can you look me in the eye, and guarantee me this is not some sort of flimflam? because if it is, i'm warning you --
speaker9: all i can tell you, miss, is that my colonel found that map in an ancient fortress, and the whole garrison believed in it so much, that without orders, we marched halfway across libya and into egypt to find that city. like i told ya, all i saw was sand. everybody else was wiped out by tuareg warriors. i'll take your bags.
speaker8: yes, yes, you're right, filthy, rude, a complete scoundrel, nothing to like there at all.
speaker11: a bright good morning to all.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker11: i have come to protect my investment, thank you very much.

speaker1: sit down, o'connell, sit down, we could use another good player. 
speaker2: i only gamble with my life, never my money.
speaker3: never? what if i were to wager five hundred dollars says we get to hamunaptra before you?
speaker2: yer on.
speaker4: what makes you so confident, sir?
speaker2: what makes you?
speaker5: we got us a man who's actually been there.
speaker1: i say, what a coincidence, why --
speaker1: -- whose deal is it? is it my deal? i thought i just dealt?

speaker1: sorry, didn't mean to scare ya. 
speaker2: the only thing that scares me, mister o'connell, are your manners.
speaker1: still angry that i kissed ya, huh?
speaker2: if you call that a kiss.
speaker2: did i miss something? are we going into battle?
speaker1: the last time i was at that place everybody i was with died.
speaker1: there's something out there, you know, something under that sand.
speaker2: yes, i'm hoping to find a certain artifact, a book, actually, my brother thinks there's treasure. what do you think is out there?
speaker1: evil. the tuaregs and the bedouin believe that hamunaptra is cursed, they call it, "the doorway to hell."
speaker2: ahmar is ossirion. "passageway to the underworld", actually.
speaker2: i don't believe in fairy tales and hokum, mister o'connell, but i do believe that one of the most famous books in history is buried out there, the book of the living. it's what first interested me in egypt as a child. it's why i came here, sort of a life's pursuit.
speaker1: and the fact that they say it's made out of pure gold, makes no nevermind to you, right?
speaker2: you know your history.
speaker1: i know my treasure.
speaker2: by the way,... why did you kiss me?
speaker1: i was about to be hanged, seemed like a good idea at the time.
speaker1: what?... wha'd i say?
speaker3: my very good friend! what a surprise.
speaker1: why if it ain't my little buddy, beni. i oughta kill you.
speaker3: you never were any good with the ladies, o'connell.
speaker1: so you're the one leading the americans, i shoulda figured. so what's the scam? you get 'em out in the middle of the desert then leave 'em to rot?
speaker3: unfortunately no, these americans are smart, they pay me only half now, half when i get them back to cairo, so i must go all the way.
speaker3: you never believed in hamunaptra, o'connell. why are you going back? the devil himself lives out there.
speaker1: the girl saved my life, figured it was the least i could do, keep her out of trouble.
speaker3: you always did have more than brains.
speaker1: let's make us even, shall we?
speaker3: even?
speaker3: o'connell! i am going to kill you for this!
speaker1: sounds familiar.

speaker1: where is the map? 
speaker1: and the key? where is the key?
speaker1: then i'll find it myself.
speaker2: friend of yours?

speaker1: the map! we need the map! 
speaker2: relax! i'm the map! it's all up here.
speaker1: oh that's comforting.
speaker2: c'mon, there's still one more of those guys around here somewhere.

speaker1: can you swim? 
speaker2: well of course i can swim, if the occasion calls for it.
speaker1: trust me. he picks her up and throws her over the side.
speaker1: the occasion calls for it.

speaker1: americans. 
speaker1: i say! good show!
speaker1: and did i panic?
speaker1: i think not.

speaker1: hey o'connell! looks to me like i got all the horses! 
speaker2: hey beni! looks to me like your on the wrong side of the river!

speaker1: i can't believe the price of these fleabags. 
speaker2: we coulda had 'em for free, all we had to do was give 'em your sister.
speaker1: yes, awfully tempting, wasn't it?
speaker2: awfully.
speaker2: then again...

speaker1: never did like camels. filthy buggers. they smell, they bite, they spit. disgusting. 
speaker2: yeah, disgusting.
speaker3: well i think they're cute.

speaker1: and you snore! 
speaker2: i do not snore!
speaker1: all night you snored!
speaker2: i have never snored!
speaker3: we're almost there.
speaker4: are you sure?
speaker3: pretty sure.
speaker1: what in is this?
speaker2: other seekers of hamunaptra.
speaker5: good morning, my friend!
speaker6: well, what the we doin'?
speaker5: patience, my good sahib, patience.
speaker7: first one to the city, o'connell! five hundred! cash bucks!
speaker3: get ready.
speaker4: for what?
speaker3: we're about to be shown the way.

speaker1: ah, begging your pardon, but shouldn't we be going? 
speaker2: after all, you rode us night and day to win that bet.
speaker3: fools.
speaker4: evelyn! slow down!

speaker1: never mind. 
speaker1: you boys owe me five hundred dollars.

speaker1: where'd all these camels come from? 
speaker2: they belong to the dead. they will wait years for their masters to return before leaving.

speaker1: that thing gives me the creeps. 
speaker2: be nice. that thing saved my life.
speaker3: that "thing" gets me excited.
speaker2: the things that get you excited.
speaker3: according to bembridge scholars, inside the statue of anubis was a secret compartment, perhaps containing the book of the living.
speaker2: what are those mirrors for?
speaker3: ancient egyptian trick. you'll see.

speaker1: do you realize, we are standing inside a room that no one has entered in over four thousand years. 
speaker2: who cares? i don't see no treasure.
speaker3: you're welcome to my share of the spider webs.
speaker4: and it stinks to high heaven in here.
speaker1: cretins.

speaker1: that is a neat trick. 
speaker2: oh my it's a preparation room.
speaker1: preparation for what?
speaker2: for entering the afterlife.
speaker3: mummies, my good son, this is where they made the mummies.

speaker1: ya scared the bejeezus out of us, o'connell. 
speaker2: likewise.
speaker3: this here is our statue,... friend.
speaker2: don't see your name on it,... pal.
speaker4: ten to one, o'connell, your odds are no-so-good.
speaker2: i've had worse.
speaker5: yes, me too.
speaker6: let's be nice, children, if we're going to play together, we must learn to share.

speaker1: according to my calculations, we should be right under the statue. we'll come up right between his legs. oh my. 
speaker2: and when those dirty yanks go to sleep -- no offense.
speaker3: none taken.
speaker2: we'll sneak up and steal that book right out from under them.
speaker3: and you're sure you can find the secret compartment?
speaker1: yes, if their egyptologist hasn't already found it.
speaker2: i say, what's our smelly little friend got himself up to?

speaker1: seti was no fool. 
speaker2: yeah, sure...
speaker2: we'll let him open it.
speaker3: lemme get this straight, they stuck a sharp, red hot poker up your nose, cut your brain into small pieces, then ripped it all out through your nostrils?
speaker4: owch! that's really got to hurt.
speaker5: it's called mummification. you're dead when they do this
speaker4: still...
speaker3: yeah, that'd bring you back to life.
speaker5: you two are worse than a couple of schoolboys.

speaker1: oh my god,... it looks like, it looks like a sarcophagus. 
speaker2: why would they bury somebody in the ceiling?
speaker1: they didn't, they buried him at the foot of anubis. he was either someone of great importance. or he did something very naughty.

speaker1: well?... who is it? 
speaker2: 'he that shall not be named.' o'connell dusts off the huge lock
speaker3: there's some sort of lock here. you say these thing's are made of granite with a steel interior?
speaker2: quarried granite with a cobalt lining.
speaker1: whoever's in here, sure wasn't getting out.
speaker3: no kiddin', without a key, it'll take us a month to crack this thing,
speaker2: a key! that's it! that's what he was talking about.
speaker3: who was talking about what?
speaker2: the man on the barge. the one with the hook, he was looking for a key.
speaker1: hey that's mine!

speaker1: what do you suppose killed him? 
speaker2: did you ever see him eat?
speaker3: seems the americans had a little misadventure of their own today, three of their diggers were killed.
speaker1: how?
speaker3: salt acid. pressurized salt acid. some sort of ancient booby-trap.
speaker2: maybe this place really is cursed. a gust of wind blows through the camp.
speaker1: you two!
speaker3: you don't believe in curses, huh?
speaker1: no. i believe if i can see it and i can touch it, then it's real. that's what i believe.
speaker3: i believe in being prepared.

speaker1: seagrams! 
speaker1: well, he may have been a stinky fellow,... but he had good taste.
speaker2: stay here!
speaker1: evy! excuse me! but didn't the man just say -- !

speaker1: goin' somewhere? 
speaker2: just looking for you, o'connell! i wanted to be with my friend!
speaker1: c'mon, friend.
speaker2: why do you like to fight so much?
speaker1: 'cause i look good doin, it.
speaker3: let 'em have it, boys!
speaker3: i say, good show.

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker2: yes,... fine,... thank you.
speaker3: see! that proves it! old seti's fortune's gotta be under this sand!
speaker4: for them to protect it like this, you just know there's got to be treasure down there.
speaker1: these men are a desert people. they value water, not gold.
speaker2: where's jonathan?

speaker1: unlike my brother, sir, i know when to say no. 
speaker2: unlike your brother, miss, you i don't get. you're a whole new brew.
speaker1: i know, you're wondering, what's a place like me doing in a girl like this?
speaker2: something like that.
speaker1: egypt is in my blood. my father was a famous explorer, he loved egypt so much that he married an egyptian. my mother! who was quite an adventurer herself
speaker2: okay, i get your father, i get your mother and i get your brother, but what are you doing here? evelyn is insulted, she staggers to her feet.
speaker1: i may not be an explorer, or an adventurer, or a treasure hunter, or a gunfighter! mister o'connell but i'm proud of what i am.
speaker2: and what is that?
speaker1: ...i am a librarian!
speaker1: i'm going to kiss you, mister o'connell.
speaker2: no you're not.
speaker1: i'm not?
speaker2: not unless you call me rick.
speaker1: why would i do that?
speaker2: because that's my name.

speaker1: i can't believe i allowed the two of you to get me drunk. 
speaker2: don't blame me, i don't even remember being there.
speaker1: well neither do i, thank you.
speaker3: you don't?
speaker1: no... why?... should i?
speaker3: gee, yeah, you told me it was the best time you ever had.

speaker1: there is a curse upon this chest. 
speaker2: curse my ass.
speaker3: yeah, who cares.
speaker1: in these hallowed grounds, that which was set forth in ancient times, is as strong today, as it was then.
speaker3: yeah, yeah, okay, what's it --
speaker1: "death will come on swift wings to whomever opens this chest".
speaker1: it says, there is one, the undead, who if brought back to life, is bound by sacred law to consummate this curse.
speaker3: yeah, well, let's just make sure we don't bring anybody back from the dead then, huh?
speaker1: he will kill all who open this chest,... and assimilate their organs and fluids.
speaker2: assimilate their organs and fluids? ya mean eat 'em?
speaker1: and in so doing he will regenerate. and no longer be the undead, but a plague upon this earth.
speaker3: ah hell, let's open it anyways.

speaker1: oh my i've dreamed about this ever since i was a little girl. 
speaker2: you dream about dead guys?
speaker1: look, all the sacred spells have been chiseled off. the hieratics and hieroglyphs that protect the deceased on his journey into the afterlife, they've been removed. this man was cursed,... doomed.
speaker2: tough break.
speaker3: yes, i'm all tears, now let's see who's inside, shall we?

speaker1: the curse,... beware the curse! 
speaker2: stupid superstitious bastard.

speaker1: is he supposed to look like that? 
speaker2: no. i've never seen a mummy look like this. he's, he's still...
speaker3: juicy?
speaker2: yes. he's more than four thousand years old and still decomposing.
speaker1: and look at this.
speaker2: oh my he was buried alive.
speaker2: and he left a message.
speaker2: it says: 'death is only the beginning.' jonathan shivers. o'connell looks around.
speaker1: where's my gun?
speaker3: what are you going to do? shoot him?
speaker1: if he decides to wake up, yes!

speaker1: i have heard told of this book, but i never truly believed it existed. this, good gentlemen, is a most priceless treasure. 
speaker2: i wouldn't trade ya for a brass spittoon!
speaker3: yeah! it's supposed to be made outta pure gold!

speaker1: what is this stuff? it smells like our late friend, the warden. 
speaker1: you did not!?... we're not!?
speaker2: rat gizzards. they smell bad and taste worse, but that's the best the desert has to offer.
speaker3: say o'connell, whadaya think these honey's'll fetch back home?
speaker4: we hear you gentlemen found yerselves a nice gooey mummy. congratulations.
speaker5: ya know if ya dry him out, you can sell him for firewood.
speaker6: scarabs, flesh eaters, i found them inside our friend's coffin. they can stay alive for years living off the flesh of a corpse, or in this case...
speaker6: famished.
speaker2: are you saying somebody threw these things in with our guy, and they slowly ate him alive?
speaker6: very slowly.
speaker1: he certainly was not a popular fellow when they planted him.
speaker2: must of got a little too frisky with the pharaoh's daughter.
speaker6: according to my readings, our friend suffered the hom-dai, the worst of all ancient egyptian curses, one reserved for only the most evil blasphemers. in all of my research, i've never read of this curse actually having been performed.
speaker2: that bad huh?
speaker6: yes, they never used it because they feared it so. it's written, that if a victim of the hom-dai should ever arise, he would bring with him the ten plagues of egypt.
speaker2: the ten plagues?... you mean all ten plagues.
speaker7: like what that moses guy did to that pharaoh guy?
speaker6: that's one way of putting it.
speaker1: let's see, there was frogs, flies, locusts...
speaker4: hail and fire.
speaker3: the sun turning black.
speaker5: water turning to blood.
speaker1: and my personal favorite: people covered in boils and sores.
speaker6: fried gizzard anyone?

speaker1: you sure you outta be playin, around with that? 
speaker2: it's just a book, no harm ever came from a book.
speaker2: ahm ra. ahm dei.

speaker1: did you see that!? grasshoppers! billions of grasshoppers! 
speaker2: that's one of the plagues, right? the grasshopper plague!
speaker3: this is not a plague. it's generational. every so many years the locusts of egypt have a population explosion and they all take flight.
speaker2: okay,... and what about frogs?

speaker1: daniels?... is that you? 
speaker1: henderson?

speaker1: oh thank goodness, you're one of the americans, aren't you? 
speaker2: anck-su-namun?

speaker1: help me,... please,... help me. 
speaker2: kadeesh pharos anck-su-namun!
speaker3: would you quit playin, around! let's get outta here already!

speaker1: i told you to leave or die, you refused, and now you may have killed us all. for you have unleashed the creature that we have feared for more than four thousand years. 
speaker2: relax, i got him.
speaker1: no mortal weapons can kill this creature. he is not of this world.
speaker2: are we talkin, about the same creature? the walking corpse? really big mouth? really bad breath?

speaker1: may the good lord protect and watch over me as a shepherd watches over his flock. and may satan in all his forms be vanquished forever. 
speaker2: the language of the slaves.
speaker2: i may have use for you. and the rewards will be great.
speaker2: where are the other sacred jars?

speaker1: you bastards! 
speaker2: what did you do to him!?
speaker3: we saved him! saved him before the creature could finish his work. now leave, all of you, quickly, before he finishes you all.
speaker4: you're not going to kill us?
speaker3: we must now hunt him down, and try and find a way to kill him, before he consumes the earth. allah be with us.
speaker5: i told ya, i already got him!
speaker3: know this, the creature will be coming for you. he must consummate the curse. and until he does, he will never eat, he will never sleep, and he will never stop.

speaker1: i thought you didn't believe in this stuff!? 
speaker2: having an encounter with a four thousand year old walking-talking corpse tends to convert one.
speaker1: forget it, we're out the door down the hall and gone.
speaker2: no, we are not.
speaker1: oh yes we are.
speaker2: no we are not. we woke him up, and we must try and stop him.
speaker1: we?! what we?! you didn't read that book. i told you not to play around with that thing.
speaker2: alright then, me, i,... i read the book, i woke him up and i intend to stop him.
speaker1: how!? you heard the man, no mortal weapons can kill this guy.
speaker2: then we'll have to find some immortal ones.
speaker1: there goes that belief again. not me, i am outta here!
speaker2: according to that book, once this creature has been reborn, his curse will spread, and as he grows in strength, so will his curse grow, infecting the people until the whole of the earth is destroyed.
speaker1: yeah? so? is that my problem?
speaker2: it's everybody's problem!
speaker1: look lady, i appreciate you saving my life and all, but when i signed on, i agreed to take you out there and bring you back, and i did, now were even, end of job, end of story, contract terminated.
speaker2: that's what i am to you? a contract?
speaker1: you can either tag along with me, or you can stay here and play around with mister maggot.
speaker2: i'm staying.

speaker1: beni ya little stinkweed, where did you slink off to? 
speaker2: you left me! you left me in the desert to rot.
speaker1: oh yeah,... sorry bout that. so who's this guy?
speaker2: this is prince imhotep, high priest of osiris.
speaker1: oh, hey, how ya doin'?
speaker2: the prince does not like to be touched by other humans. a silly eastern superstition, i'm afraid.
speaker1: yeah, well, we all got our little problems today don't we?
speaker2: he has come to help mister burns. somehow i feel responsible.
speaker1: don't gimme that, you never had any scruples.
speaker2: do you know where i can steal some?
speaker1: see ya around, padre.

speaker1: i'm the last of the royal force still stationed here, you know? all the other laddies died in the air and were buried in the sand. 
speaker1: ever since the end of the great war, there hasn't been a single challenge worthy of a man like me.
speaker2: i've heard it before, winston.
speaker1: i just wish i would've chucked it with the other laddies, gone down in a flame of glory, instead of sitting around here, rotting from boredom and booze!
speaker3: the drawer there, spectacles. as you see, i won't be needing them.
speaker4: mister burns, prince imhotep thanks you for your spectacles, -- and for your eyes,... and for your tongue.
speaker4: but i am afraid more is needed, the prince says he must finish the job, consummate the curse which you and your friends have brought down upon yourselves.

speaker1: sweet that tasted just like,... like... 
speaker2: blood.
speaker3: "and the rivers and waters of egypt went red and were as blood."
speaker2: he's here.
speaker3: who's here!?
speaker2: the guy! the priest! the mummy!

speaker1: we got problems. 
speaker1: he's here! i saw him! that thing is here!
speaker2: the creature!? are you sure!?
speaker1: pretty sure!

speaker1: we are in serious trouble. 
speaker1: back off, creep.
speaker2: you saved me from the undead. for this, i shall make you immortal.
speaker3: the curse. the curse.

speaker1: miss carnavon. gentlemen. 
speaker2: what is he doing here?
speaker1: do you truly wish to know? or would you prefer to just shoot us?
speaker3: i just saw my fist vanish into some guy's head.
speaker3: i'm willin, to go on a little faith, here.
speaker1: you will not believe it.
speaker3: try me.

speaker1: we are part of an ancient secret society, the cult-of-the-mumia, and we have a sacred mission, passed down through thirty-nine generations. for over four thousand years we have guarded the city of the dead. we are sworn at manhood to do any and all in our power to stop the high priest imhotep from being reborn into this world. 
speaker2: and because of you, we have failed.
speaker3: and you think this justifies killing innocent people!?
speaker1: to have stopped this creature? yes!
speaker4: okay, let's cut to the chase. he's afraid of cats, what's that about?
speaker1: according to the ancients, cat's are the guardians at the gates of the underworld. imhotep will fear them until he is fully regenerated, and then he will fear nothing.
speaker5: right! and ya know how he gets fully regenerated?! by killing everybody who opened that chest and sucking us dry! that's how!
speaker1: yes, the creature must first try and regenerate, and then he will attempt to resurrect the one he has loved for more than four thousand years.
speaker3: anck-su-namun.
speaker3: in the necropolis, when i saw him, - alive,... walking, he called me anck- su-namun. and then in mister burns' quarters he tried to kiss me.
speaker1: it is because it was you who read from the book. he has chosen you to be the human sacrifice needed to regenerate the body of anck-su-namun.
speaker6: this is not good. not good at all.
speaker2: tonight is the full moon. the moon of osiris. it will begin tonight.
speaker6: "...and he stretched forth his hands towards the heavens, and there was darkness throughout the land of egypt."

speaker1: we must stop him from regenerating. 
speaker1: who opened that chest?
speaker2: well, there was me and daniels here and then poor burns of course, oh yeah, and that egyptologist fella.
speaker3: what about my buddy, beni?
speaker4: naw, he scrammed outta there,
speaker1: we must find the egyptologist and bring him back here to the safety of the fort, before the creature can get to him.
speaker3: okay,... evelyn, you wait here, you two come with me.
speaker2: the with that! i'm not goin' nowhere! we're safe here.
speaker4: yeah, i'm not leavin, this fort for nothin'.
speaker1: who put you in charge? you can't just leave me behind like some old suitcase. i'm the one responsible for this mess and i intend to be the one to clean it up.
speaker3: keep an eye on her. if you leave her door, i'll rip your spleen out. c'mon, jonathan. jonathan swallows hard and points to himself.
speaker5: me?

speaker1: well, well, well. 
speaker1: lemme guess, spring cleaning?
speaker1: where's your new friend?
speaker2: what friend? you're my only friend.
speaker1: then you got no excuse for living. what the you doin, being buddies with this creep, beni? what's in it for you?
speaker2: it is better to be the right hand of the devil,... than in his path. as long as i serve him, i am immune.
speaker1: immune from what?
speaker2: you shall see.
speaker1: what are you looking for? lie, and i'll slit your throat.
speaker2: the book! the black book they found at hamunaptra! imhotep wants it back. said to me it would be worth it's weight in diamonds.
speaker1: what does he want the book for?
speaker3: that looked rather painful.
speaker1: ya know, ever since i met you, my luck has been for crap.
speaker3: yes, i know, i do that to people.

speaker1: damn-it! that's two down and only two to go. 
speaker2: and then he'll be coming after evy.

speaker1: the with this. i'm goin, downstairs to get me a drink. you want somethin'? 
speaker2: yeah, get me a glass of bourbon, a

speaker1: get your hands off my girl, pal. 
speaker1: nice lips.
speaker1: i figured you might be here, so i brought a friend.

speaker1: you called me your girl? 
speaker2: what?... oh yeah, that was just um, you know, figure a speech.
speaker1: i think you were jealous
speaker2: jealous? you kiddin' me? did you see that guy's face?
speaker3: shut-up! just shut-up! we gotta do somethin'! we gotta do somethin, now! before it's too late!

speaker1: last month i came across an inscription that mentioned the book of the dead. 
speaker2: that book we found at hamunaptra?
speaker1: yes. i dismissed it, because it talked about bringing people back from the dead. a notion i was unwilling to believe.
speaker3: believe it, sister. that's what brought our buddy back to life.
speaker4: and now he's going to use it to bring his girlfriend back
speaker5: and if he succeeds, the two of them together will bring about the apocalypse.
speaker6: the plagues we have seen so far, are merely imhotep flexing his muscles. only at the moment of anck-su-namun's resurrection will he be truly invincible.
speaker1: i'm thinking that if the black book of the dead can bring people back to life --
speaker7: -- then perhaps, the golden book of the living can return them to the underworld.
speaker1: exactly --
speaker3: so your sayin', if we find the book made outta gold --
speaker7: -- and read the sacred incantations contained inside it.
speaker3: you think it'll send this guy back to hell?
speaker7: correct, and that's when --
speaker5: it has begun. the beginning of the end.
speaker1: not quite yet it hasn't. c'mon.

speaker1: got it! 
speaker2: got what?
speaker1: since the black book of the dead was found inside the statue of anubis, then according to this, the golden book of the living should be inside...
speaker2: what?
speaker3: what?

speaker1: the golden book of the living, is inside the statue of horus. 
speaker2: which would be located not far to the east of the anubis statue.
speaker3: don't tell me we gotta go back out there?
speaker2: if we want to kill the creature, yes.

speaker1: anck-su-namun! anck-su-namun! 
speaker2: imhotep! imhotep!
speaker3: you're gonna get yours, pal!

speaker1: c'mon! c'mon! let's go! let's go! 
speaker2: he's gorgeous.
speaker3: he has consummated the curse, now all he need do is raise anck-su-namun from the dead, then it will be the end of us, and the beginning for them.
speaker4: koontash dai na.
speaker5: take his hand and he will spare the others.
speaker2: any bright ideas?
speaker1: sorry, fresh out.
speaker1: don't do it, evelyn.
speaker2: i have no choice.
speaker4: keetah mi pharos, aja nilo, isirlan.
speaker5: come with me my princess. it is time to make you mine, forever.
speaker2: all eternity,
speaker2: you better think of something, because if he turns me into a mummy, you're the first one i'm coming after.
speaker1: got guts, lady.
speaker2: yes, i know, and i'd like to keep them.

speaker1: hey that's mine -- ! 
speaker2: evelyn!
speaker3: be calm. there is still time. we can stop him yet.
speaker4: pared oos.

speaker1: we gotta get her back. 
speaker2: i'm with you, old man. no one touches my sister like that and gets away with it.
speaker1: you know where he's taking her?
speaker3: yes. to hamunaptra. to perform the ritual.
speaker2: and what ritual would that be?
speaker3: the ritual to bring the body of anck- su-namun back to life.
speaker2: and how does one do that?
speaker3: by reading the book of the dead.
speaker2: oh yes, of course.
speaker3: and then killing your sister.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker3: imhotep is now able to cross the desert with great haste.
speaker2: begging your pardon, but i wasn't quite clear on that last part.
speaker3: if he arrives before us, it will be too late.
speaker2: did you say 'kill' my sister?
speaker1: i know how to beat him to it.

speaker1: so what's your little problem got to do with his majesty's royal air corp? 
speaker2: not a thing.
speaker1: is it dangerous?
speaker2: you probably won't live through it.
speaker1: by jove, do you really think so?
speaker3: everybody else we've bumped into has died, why not you?
speaker1: so what's the challenge then?
speaker2: to save the damsel in distress, kill the bad guy and steal his treasure.
speaker1: winston havlock at your service, sir!

speaker1: what just happened? 
speaker2: all i remember is him turning into a blast of sand,... and then i remember nothing.

speaker1: hang on, men! 
speaker1: we're going down!
speaker1: here i come, laddies!

speaker1: okay, now what the does this horus guy look like? 
speaker2: he's a big fellow with pointy ears and a face like a falcon.
speaker1: got it.

speaker1: keep moving. 
speaker2: you know, nasty little fellows such as yourself, always get their comeuppance.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: oh yes, always.

speaker1: i say, look at that. 
speaker1: say, gents! you should come have a look at this.

speaker1: prince imhotep wants your heart. 
speaker2: tell him, i'm truly flattered... but that it's already taken.
speaker1: he wants your heart and your brain, your liver, your kidneys...
speaker1: ...and how do you say? those slimy things, in your stomach?
speaker2: intestines.
speaker1: yeah! them.
speaker2: you only want me for my organs?!

speaker1: who the are these guys? 
speaker2: priests. imhotep's priests.
speaker1: i never killed a priest before.
speaker2: they are evil, cursed, they matter not.
speaker1: well, okay then.
speaker1: oh come on, gimme a break here.

speaker1: this whole place is comin, alive! 
speaker2: i'm out.

speaker1: there he is! 
speaker1: hello horus old boy.
speaker2: allow me.

speaker1: these guys just don't quit. 
speaker2: keep digging!

speaker1: save the girl! kill the creature! 
speaker2: that's the last one, we better get lucky.

speaker1: with your death, my love and i will be invincible! 
speaker2: i found it, evy! i found it
speaker3: shut-up and get me off of here!

speaker1: open the book, jonathan! open the book! that's the only way to kill him! 
speaker2: i can't open it! it's locked or something!
speaker2: we need the key!
speaker2: what do i do, evy!? what do i do!?
speaker1: read the inscription on the cover!
speaker2: keetash-something, naraba-something.
speaker2: ebarra im hatu kashka ummmmm -- ?
speaker2: rasheem aaaaa anubis!
speaker2: oh boy.
speaker3: this just keeps gettin, better and better.
speaker3: do something, jonathan! kill it!
speaker2: you have got to be joking?
speaker1: finish the inscription,
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: ummm, hootash im... hootash im now what is this last symbol here?
speaker1: what's it look like!?
speaker2: it's an anck symbol, with two little squiggly lines above it, and a bird, a stork! on either side.
speaker1: ah! ah! ahmenophus!
speaker2: yes,... i see.
speaker2: hootash im ahmenophus!
speaker3: okay pal, let's see how tough you are without your right arm.
speaker3: alright,... so he's left handed.
speaker2: i got it!
speaker1: kadeesh mal! kadeesh mal! pared oos!

speaker1: well,... i guess we go home empty handed. 
speaker2: wouldn't say that.

