speaker1: why are we slowing down? 
speaker1: we're stopping. why are we stopping?
speaker2: i don't know, mother. no idea.
speaker1: excuse me, why has the train stopped?
speaker3: it's the crowd, ma'm, the people. they're blocking the track.
speaker4: long live tolstoy! long live the old warrior!
speaker1: but if they block the track, the train can't go...you have to make

speaker1: oh, they won't move. we are gonna die here. leo, leo, go and say something to them. it's the only way we are gonna get out of here. 
speaker2: i have seen your banner. and iâ´ve heard what you say. you think iâ´m the hope of russia, do you? well, thatâ´s not true. you are the hope of russia. the hope of all the world. you say, you want a new way to live? well, you are not gonna find it making a fuss over me. so, i suggest that you get on with your work and let a poor old men get on with his.

speaker1: but sex... you are twenty three. not an easy age for abstinence, is it? 
speaker2: tolstoy does not approve of sexual relations. i know this.
speaker1: he despises them, in fact...
speaker1: i don't want to belabor the point, but i arranged for a manservant last year who proceeded to ruin two housemaids just like that. he was very upset.
speaker2: this would not be a problem. i'm celibate. i'm also a strict vegetarian.
speaker1: yes, i've heard many good things about you. i've even read what you`ve written. so has he.
speaker1: my dear boy, if you were to become tolstoy's private secretary, you would be given a great gift. you'll be with him every day, eat together, walk in the forest by his side.

speaker1: believe me, since becoming a tolstoyan, i have become so eager to learn, so comitted to discussing ideas, improving my very soul. 
speaker2: well, we have a lot to do if we are to get his work to the people.
speaker1: we?
speaker2: yes, we. if we can encourage the spread of passive resistance...just think of it valentin thousands of ordinary russians casting off centuries of spiritual and political oppression-
speaker1: in the name of truth and freedom.
speaker2: truth and freedom, yes but still, my boy, there are so many enemies-
speaker1: enemies?
speaker2: the czar's police...you'll be followed when you leave here...and the church will stop at nothing to bring him back into the fold. his children can't be trusted... only sasha... and then of course there is the countess... well, one doesn't like to come between married people whatever the circumstances, but her dogged attachment to private property, her public criticism of our movement...

speaker1: chertkov the point is, he needs a man of your intellectual gifts around him. someone who can help him with the new work. someone who understands his goals. 
speaker2: and although they've allowed me to return to russia, i can't see him. they keep me under house arrest... they might as well keep me in a cage.
speaker2: so, i need you to put these letters directly into his hands. one can't be sure what gets through to him.
speaker2: sofya andreyevna does not respect his privacy.
speaker3: she wouldn't open his private correspondence...
speaker2: i have another task for you, my dear.
speaker3: please.
speaker2: you'll keep a diary for me.
speaker2: i need to know everything that goes on at yasnaya polyana. let me know who visits the house, any talk of the copyright to his work, any contact with the church, what letters come and go. anything sofya andreyevna says.

speaker1: anything? 
speaker2: she's very, very dangerous.

speaker1: godspeed, my boy. 
speaker1: and remember what i said.
speaker1: write everything down! go!

speaker1: nothing's working... hand me my other boot, my friend, will you? 
speaker2: let me finish.
speaker1: it doesn't matter. if my heart had stopped beating, i'd still go riding today.
speaker2: your pulse is my responsibility...

speaker1: dushan and if you must ride, i insist you wear a coat. even the sun is cold today. 
speaker2: this is impossible! it really is! these people are parasites! look... "countess tolstoy has become estranged from her husband. they barely speak." she throws the paper on the floor.
speaker2: you know who spreads all this rubbish....
speaker2: c'est la meme en france. they gossip about us in paris... "they do not share a similar view of either religion or politics." incroyable!
speaker3: peut-etre. you think that's inaccurate?
speaker2: i think it's none of the world's business.
speaker2: what are you doing? don't do that.
speaker3: dushan petrovich, you're scribbling again?
speaker2: darling, where are you going?

speaker1: riding with sasha. don't expect us for lunch. 
speaker2: leovochka, why do you insist on dressing like that.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: like the man who looks after the sheep.
speaker1: it's not meant to offend you.
speaker2: but it does offend me, because it offends reason. you're a count, for sake.
speaker2: oh darling, i have something else to say.
speaker1: i doubt it not, my dear.
speaker3: he's forgotten his coat.
speaker3: count tolstoy, you've forgotten your coat.

speaker1: let him walk. let him walk. 
speaker2: count tolstoy, you're no doubt distressed by the czar's treatment of your secretary nikolai gusev ?
speaker3: these people are bandits.
speaker1: i said, let him walk.
speaker3: they come into my house and arrest a man whose only crime is to express a view of life saner than that which prevails.
speaker2: so gusev is innocent?
speaker3: of course, i'm the guilty one. i reject the orthodox church. i condemn the established order and i make no secret of it.
speaker4: bless you, tolstoy. thank you.
speaker1: let him walk. let him walk. but you don't banish these people very much to your credit...i wish i had your largeness of spirit.
speaker5: papa.
speaker3: sasha!

speaker1: telyatinki was created by vladimir grigorevich as a center for the movement. just last week we had a visitor from india. we talked to the group about the healing properties of cobra venum. 
speaker2: oh, goodness..it's a beautiful day.
speaker1: yes, but we will pay for it.

speaker1: the meeting room is behind us. this is the tool shed. the dormitory ahead. 
speaker1: telyatinki is a place of freedom. nothing is forbidden here.
speaker1: each man is alone with his conscience and his the kitchen is below. you'll be expected to assist with meals at least twice a week ...and to give a hand in the garden. we're all equals here, you know...as tolstoy teaches us.

speaker1: you are expected at yasnaya polyana in the morning, first thing. 
speaker2: i look forward to it.
speaker1: yes... you're lucky....we're all envious.

speaker1: vladimir grigorevich is anxious that you begin your reports as soon as possible. you have the notebook he gave you? 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: you understand we must keep the existence of the diary a secret.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: just that...secrecy doesn't seem to me the essence of tolstoy's thought.
speaker1: but you'll admit, you're no expert.
speaker2: yes, i...i'll see you in the morning.
speaker1: if we're spared.

speaker1: i've brought you a glass of tea. 
speaker2: that's very kind of you.
speaker1: it's your first day. enjoy it.
speaker1: you met sergeyenko?
speaker2: last night.
speaker1: ad what do you think?
speaker2: he seems very sincere.
speaker2: thank you. why are you laughing?
speaker1: say that again.
speaker2: i said he seems very... why?
speaker1: is that what you think?
speaker2: i just arrived...what's your name?
speaker1: masha. but you should still say what you think. not just about him. we all should.
speaker2: thank you for the tea.
speaker1: tomorrow you can make your own.

speaker1: hello...hello... 
speaker2: you're the new secretary.
speaker3: papa's out. you can wait in the library. ivan will show you up.

speaker1: i'm... i'm... here is- valentin interrupts himself with a sneeze. 
speaker2: bless you.
speaker1: i'm sorry. sometimes i...
speaker2: vladimir grigorevich has already written about you at length. i need your help badly. the manifesto against the government is hard work. they commit their idiotic abuses faster than i can catalogue them...and the new book...
speaker1: he told me about it...it's very exciting.
speaker2: i've become convinced that all the world's religions have a single organizing principle. can you guess what it is? love! love! simple... now, i want to talk about you. how are you? how was your journey? come, sit down.
speaker2: you know, i was born on this sofa...
speaker2: sit. sit.

speaker1: myself, my brother, my children, at least five or six of them, right here. now, i've read your essays. how`s your work progressing? 
speaker1: my boy, what is it? i upset you in some way. was it the sofa? it's only a sofa.
speaker2: i'm very happy. you are very kind. i'm no one and you are... you are leo tolstoy and you ask me about my work.
speaker1: you rest for a moment and i'll fetch you a glass of tea. rest, because there's work for both of us together.

speaker1: it really is the most extraordinary thing. 
speaker2: it's not for lack of land that the muzhiks live in poverty. they have no will power and they drink too much.
speaker3: i'm not suggesting they be given land. private property is the root of the problem... we should be giving ours away.
speaker4: give it to whom?
speaker2: it's all ridiculous. you think that poverty makes the peasants somehow morally superior.
speaker3: i believe that wealth corrupts us all, yes i do.
speaker5: it's a keystone of the movement.
speaker2: oh, i know all about the movement.
speaker3: if the peasants had money, they wouldn't surround themselves, as we do, with footmen costing ten rubles a month.
speaker2: no, they'd spend it on drink and whores.
speaker3: valentin fedorovich, do you think fifty years from now, people will eat while grown men walk around and wait on them hand and foot?

speaker1: oh, that's good...that's good. 
speaker2: i think...
speaker3: stop scribbling! you all think he's christ, don't you? he thinks he's christ.
speaker1: i'm not...i don't believe leo nikolayevich is christ. christ is christ but...
speaker3: but what?
speaker1: i believe he's one of the prophets. speaks through him. i recognize the cadence in his voice.
speaker3: this is unbearable. no wonder i feel lonely. i'm surrounded by morrons.
speaker4: mama, you're being ridiculous.
speaker3: am i? i sit here and listen to this talk of love and and equality, knowing full well that count generosity here is fully prepared to give away everything we have.
speaker5: you keep going on like that...why do you think we should profit from the work iâ´m doing which is only meant for the sake of the people.

speaker1: in defense of my gift, let me demonstrate. it's quite remarkable, really. 
speaker2: it's your voice. it's wonderful.
speaker3: it's tiresome. another remarkable invention will supercede it.
speaker3: please excuse me.
speaker1: leo nikolayevich is something of a luddite, i fear.

speaker1: oh, thatâ´s better. thatâ´s nice. very nice indeed. 
speaker2: do your parents often speak to each other so...bluntly?

speaker1: my mother doesn't understand my father's goals, not since his work as a novelist became secondary. his commitment to the spiritual life offends her. they've fought about it for years. 
speaker2: i'm sure she means well.
speaker2: your father is the greatest writer in the world.
speaker1: quite.
speaker2: i mean to say, i feel privileged to be here. it's an... honor.
speaker1: bless you.
speaker1: bless you.

speaker1: i'm sorry. sometimes i sneeze when i'm nervous. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: itâ´s a note, for him.
speaker2: well, give it to him then.
speaker1: itâ´s from your mother. she wants to see me.
speaker2: she is looking for allies. pay attention. this is war.

speaker1: i see a fine young man before me. clear eyes. nice features, rather handsome in a peculiar way. 
speaker2: thank you, countess...
speaker1: call me sofya andreyevna. we don't stand on formality here, as you may have observed. many young men ruin their looks by loose living. you're a real tolstoyan, i can tell!
speaker2: i admire your husband immensely.
speaker1: that's excellent. he likes that.

speaker1: his ideas are beautiful...social justice...the idea...don't you think? 
speaker2: he's very grateful for the help you've been giving him. he told me so himself. i think it surprises him that a young man would be so diligent. when he was your age, he was whoring in the caucasus.
speaker2: he wrote it all down. he even gave me a copy, so i could read all the details...
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: you've read war and peace?
speaker1: many times... twice.
speaker2: when he was writing it, long before chertkov created that monstrosity at telyatinki, before all this "new religion" and revolutionary nonsense... what do you think of chertkov, by the way?
speaker1: he's given me an extraordinary opportunity.
speaker2: but you see what a fool he is, a self-serving puritanical i have to say, it's been extremely pleasant since they've locked him in his house.

speaker1: when my husband was writing it, in the mid-sixties, he'd bring me pages to re-copy everyday. i was the only one who could read his handwriting. i could read his intentions, too. afternoons, we'd drink tea and discuss changes. "natasha wouldn't say that to prince andrey," or "pierre's too simple here. he's not stupid." she smiles at the memory. 
speaker1: but i don't count anymore.
speaker1: you must help me, valentin fedorovich. i want only what is best for my husband and my family. i could tolerate the situation if it only concerned me what i can not do is sit back while they steal my children's inheritance. do you know i was the only person. i could understand his intention.
speaker2: i don't believe anyone wants to do that.
speaker1: i have a little gift for you
speaker1: it's a diary. everyone should always keep a diary.
speaker2: it's a very popular activity around your husband.
speaker1: you're teasing me, but i trust you'll write the truth.

speaker1: that may not be so easy. 
speaker2: nonsense. you've been listening to your friends at telyatinki... write what you see. that's always the place to begin. what. you. see.
speaker2: more tea?

speaker1: you're finished for the day? 
speaker2: he didn't need me this afternoon.
speaker2: leo nikolayevich disapproves of women doing physical labor. don't you find that reactionary?
speaker1: no, i find it sweet. i find you reactionary.
speaker1: he admires you, i believe.
speaker1: sergeyenko told me. he's miserable about it.

speaker1: tolstoy's kind to everyone. 
speaker2: what do you talk about when you're with him? why are you blushing?
speaker1: we talk about me.
speaker2: really.
speaker1: he wants to know everything about me, my parents, my relations with women, my experience of - he looks up to see masha smiling at him.
speaker2: and what relations are these?
speaker2: i had a lover before i came here... headmaster of a school where i taught. he was married - happily married. it was difficult. we could make love only at school.
speaker1: at school?
speaker2: in the gymnasium, after the girls had gone. there were straw mats on the floor.
speaker1: i see...

speaker1: he looks away to hide his confusion. 
speaker2: have i upset you?
speaker3: no...i appreciate your frankness
speaker2: but you disapprove of me. i see it in your eyes.
speaker3: i don't. not at all...i think sexual activity...how men and women combine their physical parts is completely neutral.
speaker2: listen to you. you're a prig. just like sergeyenko. why else would they have hired you?
speaker3: that's not fair
speaker2: i don't care if it's fair. it's true...neutral...my
speaker3: i'm going.
speaker2: do as you like.
speaker2: valentin fedorovich.
speaker2: you forgot your horse.
speaker3: yes. you know, i think that i... never mind.

speaker1: i couldn't write. i was distracted i think...i had a dream last night, about a tartar girl i knew in the war. 
speaker2: a girl who died?
speaker1: no, no...a girl i had sexual with... sometimes we did it twice a day.
speaker1: bless...i've never forgotten our time together, the position of our bodies, the taste of her...
speaker2: you shouldn't torture yourself. it was a long time ago.

speaker1: torture? you are a virgin, aren't you. 
speaker2: i try to...you know, to...
speaker1: to be what, a good tolstoyan?
speaker1: you see, i myself am not a very good tolstoyan. you should think twice about asking my advice about anything... torture...
speaker2: are you alright?
speaker1: kalya, her name was...she's an old woman now, white hair, old body like me. she'd hardly remember my name, i suspect. she may even be dead. do you think that meant something?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i mean that little romance. was there some meaning to it?
speaker2: itâ´s interesting. i think you would say..i mean, iâ´ve read where you say that the physical body isnâ´t real. that itâ´s all an illusion.
speaker1: i say lots of things. what do you say? what do you think?
speaker2: i...i donâ´t know.
speaker1: i donâ´t know, either.

speaker1: smell that... 
speaker2: lilac?
speaker1: precisely. it's lilac. the smell's stronger when the sun goes down.
speaker3: papa!
speaker1: i've enjoyed myself, my boy.

speaker1: my dear, dear man. 
speaker2: he'll try again to convince your father to change his will.

speaker1: to give the copyright as "a gift to humanity."...the reptile. 
speaker2: papa's not in his right mind. he can't defend himself against these thieves. my tooth is killing me.
speaker1: you're a fine son, darling. none of this make believe chastity and made up religion. i wish all my children had turned out like you.
speaker2: a man'th responthibility ith to hith family.
speaker1: chertkov's notions of virtuous behavior are calculated to destroy me.
speaker2: to dethtroy uth all.
speaker1: there is nothing more pathetic than impoverished aristocrats.

speaker1: vladimir grigorevich, what a surprise. 
speaker2: sofya andreyevna, i'm happy to see you.

speaker1: valentin watches her match him smile for smile. 
speaker2: and i'm happy to make you happy...always.

speaker1: i'm glad to have a moment alone with you, valentin. how do you think you're getting on? 
speaker2: i hope my work is pleasing to leo nikolayevich.
speaker1: yes. he seems satisfied and that's good. the reports i've received from you however...
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: you send me never ending commentary on tolstoy's writing. that's all very interesting but not very useful. i need to know what goes on with sofya andreyevna. you must see by now she's committed to undermining her husband's best intentions.
speaker2: it's not quite so obvious to me.
speaker1: because she is duplicitous. you are very bright. too bright to let her into you. chertkov fixes the boy with his intense gaze.
speaker1: you value our work?

speaker1: i do. 
speaker2: the ideals we share?
speaker1: that's why i'm here.
speaker2: good, of course it is. do you think the countess suspects something?
speaker1: well, i think the countess is very suspicios by nature.
speaker2: how so?
speaker1: i donâ´t think she likes you very much.
speaker2: what does she say?
speaker1: itâ´s a tone iâ´ve picked up.
speaker2: we simply want to distribute tolstoy's work to the widest audience possible. she just has no understanding what it is we are trying to do. thereâ´s nothing in it for any of us but a real chance to increase the worldâ´s happiness.
speaker2: i can only be of limited help to the master if i don't know what's going on. any effort she makes to shore up control of the copyright, i must know. the survival of our movement depends on it. remember who your friends are. what you've come here to do.

speaker1: hello... hello? 
speaker1: masha?
speaker1: masha.
speaker1: masha.
speaker2: ssshh.
speaker2: move the book.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: your book.

speaker1: is it alright? 
speaker2: what...what is it?
speaker1: you really are a virgin.
speaker1: i'm playing. it's fine. it's wonderful... hold me.

speaker1: wake up, wake up. 
speaker2: i am awake.
speaker1: i want to ask you something..say it again.
speaker2: it was wonderful.
speaker1: why did you come to a place like this?

speaker1: what do you mean? 
speaker2: you donâ´t follow any of the rules.
speaker1: you mean, why does someone who doesn't follow the rules come to a place like this?
speaker1: ..it's not about rules. not for tolstoy anyway...
speaker3: valentin fedorovich.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: open the door.
speaker2: at the moment, i'm indisposed.
speaker3: yes, well...leo nikolayevich is here. he want s to see you.
speaker2: tell him... i'll be down at once.
speaker3: yes..and tell maria filipovna we could use another hand in the kitchen.

speaker1: if i see her i will... 
speaker2: if you see her...yes. and if you're going to behave like rabbits, you should go live in the woods.
speaker1: let me go out first...give me five minutes...

speaker1: look at the love in him, like jesus..suffering the children...all that... 
speaker2: an old man is a very ugly thing.
speaker2: my dear boy. come and kiss me.

speaker1: now, who is this? maria filipovna. 
speaker1: you're both looking so well. life here at telyatinki obviously agrees with you.
speaker1: bless you, boy. what are you nervous about, now? sit down. sit down.
speaker1: dear masha, valentin tells me you're the great treasure of telyatinki. he claims you're a very gifted teacher.
speaker2: we're happy to have you with us.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker3: you've killed a living thing.
speaker3: do you have something to say?
speaker2: it's absurd. that's all.

speaker1: what are you saying? 
speaker2: i'm sorry but- it's a mosquito.
speaker3: forgive him. he can't help it. he's a better tolstoyan than i am.
speaker4: it's not the message we want to send.
speaker5: from my mother "nerves dreadful. stop. insomnia. stop. pulse 100.
speaker5: don't give in to her, papa. it'll never end...i swear to that woman has an instinct for knowing when you're just about to enjoy yourself
speaker6: from sofya andreyevna. "i beg you. stop. unwell. stop. hurry back."
speaker5: who taught her to use that machine?
speaker4: perhaps sasha's right. encouraging this may not be the best thing.

speaker1: it's a trick, papa. she'll drain you. you'll be miserable. 
speaker1: then, let me go with you.
speaker2: no, my dear, i'll go alone.

speaker1: sofya. 
speaker1: sofya, are you ill?
speaker2: i'm fine...now that you're home.
speaker1: it's no good, you know, all this.
speaker2: did i really? i don't believe it. not you. i'm your little bird. you know the sounds i make.
speaker1: that was some sort of love call?
speaker2: it brought you back to me.

speaker1: come out of the dark... where i can see you. 
speaker2: why? why? why, do you do it? we live in the country and you insist on making it an opera house. what's wrong with a little peace now and then?
speaker1: look at me. this is who i am. this is what you married. we're older, maybe we're old, but i'm still your little chicken you're still my big cock.
speaker1: let me make you crow.
speaker1: let me make you sing.
speaker1: do you love me?
speaker2: i do.
speaker3: i want you to love me.

speaker1: i'm not supposed to do this either. 
speaker2: masha. you are not supposed to smoke at telyatinki.
speaker1: you wouldn't look at me.
speaker2: it was difficult in front of the others.
speaker1: but it wasn't difficult in your bed... when it was only you and me in front of
speaker2: i'm not sure i was conscious of
speaker1: so, i made you forget god?
speaker2: no...
speaker1: yes, only for a moment. you forgot your rules and remembered love.
speaker2: you make it sound very simple.
speaker1: it is simple. what we did is what men and women do, have done, will continue doing. what could be more simple? we touched each other-- stayed close together. something passed between us. something real. that is a betrayal of what? of nothing.

speaker1: masha but you're afraid... all your ideas. what are you afraid of? 
speaker2: i'm afraid i've hurt you, havenâ´t

speaker1: good morning, my darling? do you mind if i join you? 
speaker2: of course, my dear.
speaker1: it's quite insane, my darling. everyone is making fun of you.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: even the muzhiks. i heard them laughing in the barn.
speaker2: about what?

speaker1: laughing about what? 
speaker2: i don't want to ruin last night.
speaker2: laughing about the fact that you've developed a senile crush on a fat middle aged flatterer. your passion for chertkov has become a standing joke.
speaker1: i have a great affection for vladimir grigorivich. let them laugh if they find it amusing.
speaker2: but it's not amusing, darling. it's sick. it's not normal. you hang on his every word.
speaker1: we have a great deal in common.
speaker2: you have nothing in common. you are a genius. he's a sycophant and a pervert.
speaker1: because he understands what i'm trying to do? because he tries to help me accomplish it?
speaker2: he is using you. you just can't seem to see it.
speaker1: this is absolute nonsense.
speaker2: that bold, obese, idiotic man. you treat him...
speaker1: it's impossible for you not to distract me. let me alone... for sake. you're like a spoiled child.

speaker1: do you love me, lyovochka? 
speaker2: of course, i do.
speaker1: then why would you betray me?
speaker2: why do you say that?
speaker1: because of the will?
speaker1: the new will.
speaker2: there's no new will.
speaker2: there is no new will.
speaker1: does chertkov have it?
speaker2: there's no new will.
speaker1: but that's why he's come back. you talk about it, you and your boyfriend. you plan for it. you have no heart for the people who really love you. you'd rather be seduced by charlatans and deluded by flatterers, all in the name of love....you can't even love your own children. you can't even love me.

speaker1: tell me where it is? 
speaker2: there is no new will.
speaker1: then, promise me there never will be.
speaker2: iâ´ve told you the truth. now, let me work. please, will you?

speaker1: tomorrow, i'll go to the station and lie down on the track. tolstoy's wife becomes anna karenina herself! see how the papers will like that! 
speaker2: this is unbearable. you don't want a husband. you want a greek chorus.

speaker1: she's here to question you about the new will. 
speaker2: how does she know it even exists?
speaker1: she claims leo nikolayevich told her she could examine the draft.
speaker2: he is obviously not thinking clearly. and now we have to put up with her petty grasping.
speaker1: it doesn't seem petty to me.
speaker2: i beg your pardon?
speaker1: he`s her life. the work, in her mind, is theirs...together.
speaker2: and you're her advocate? you've been taken in by her celebrity. i worried about this.
speaker1: i'm talking about their history -- - simply that.
speaker2: we should see her. act as if nothing has happened.
speaker1: nothing has happened.

speaker1: sofya andreyevna, at last, you honour us with your visit. 
speaker2: and i'm happy to make you happy...always.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: your moustache is...
speaker1: it's a problem of the wax.
speaker2: let me get to the point. vladimir grigorivich, i don't wish to be your enemy. i'm delighted that my husband has a friend who understands and shares his ideals. all i want is what's reasonable - an opportunity to evaluate the new will. if you agree, i'm sure we can be friends.
speaker1: you're very kind. sofya andreyevna. but i can't help you. not without specific instructions from your husband.
speaker2: leo nikolayevich has agreed, hasn't he val-
speaker1: no witness you produce will change my position. but i'll certainly talk to leo nikolayevich at the first opportunity.

speaker1: very well. 
speaker2: i want us to be friends, too, sofya. leo nikolayevich is the most valuable thing in the world, for both of us. we should endeavor to set things right between us. give him peace. let him work.
speaker1: yes. valentin fedorovich...are you coming back to the house with me?
speaker3: i'll the countess home and be back in time for supper.
speaker4: masha will be overjoyed.
speaker1: have you been keeping something from me? how delightful.

speaker1: we've become close friends, i think. tell me everything, dear boy. i love a romance. 
speaker2: it's nothing, really.
speaker1: a young woman in your life is nothing?
speaker2: masha is a friend.
speaker1: a lover?

speaker1: a good friend. 
speaker2: that sounds serious enough.
speaker2: i don't mean to annoy you.
speaker1: i'm not annoyed.
speaker2: you forget that i'm an experienced reader. i can read your face, every letter. it's beautifully clear. do you love her?
speaker1: maybe i do.
speaker2: not something they'd understand, these so called disciples of my husband. they've never understood a word he's written. what do any of them know about love?

speaker1: fine...fine...why did you...? 
speaker2: i came back as soon as i could. it was a strange day. leo nikolayevich,...i love to listen to him. i love nothing more...
speaker2: but today i could hardly concentrate.
speaker2: all i could think of was you.
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: i think i've confused you. i've confused us both.
speaker2: no. no. you didnâ´t confuse me..i was stupid. i was afraid, but i'm not afraid anymore.
speaker2: i love you, masha!
speaker1: maybe you could help me a little.
speaker2: masha...

speaker1: before the other night...i'd committed the act of copulation many times in my heart. 
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: i think about you all the time. in my heart iâ´ve comitted the act of copulation many times. i just want to say...it was never like it was with you.
speaker2: i'll wait for you, then.

speaker1: i hate to say it but the countess has become more and more dangerous. 
speaker2: not dangerous... she's concerned for the welfare of the family.
speaker1: and we're concerned for the welfare of mankind. take this down.
speaker2: itâ´s a terrible thing you ask. i canâ´t do it.

speaker1: you've been more than reasonable. she already controls the income from your property. 
speaker2: listen to him, papa. he has our best interests at heart.
speaker1: we're speaking only of the rights to your words, your ideas.

speaker1: she's my wife. sheâ´s part of me. we've been together now, so many years.... 
speaker2: but you're more than a husband and father. she must understand that. the best interests of the people are one with your own. you belong to them.

speaker1: she's unstable...i wonder if she isn't ill. 
speaker2: itâ´s sadly more than possible.
speaker3: i know itâ´s hard for you, papa. but we must be realistic.
speaker1: do you really think she's fit to control the final disposition of the will?
speaker4: how dare you?
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker4: you're all plotting against me. in my own house, too. i bear you thirteen children. how can you betray me like this? someone help me up.
speaker4: give everything you've got to him, your fat little catamite. "what will it be, my dearest dear, my vladimir grigorivich? my wife's heart on a platter? her kidneys? with salt? but of course, my dear chertkov, whatever pleases you. the china. the estate. permanent copyright on everything i've ever written?

speaker1: give me that. give it to me, you little weasel. 
speaker2: please, countess sofya-
speaker3: mama, please...
speaker1: now...
speaker4: can i not...can i not have...
speaker3: you'll kill him, mama. that's what you want, isn't it? you want him to die!"
speaker1: you! don't think you deceive me for one little moment! i know exactly what you're doing. i want to see the will. it's my right, in the name of
speaker5: what are you afraid of?
speaker1: you. i'm afraid of you.
speaker5: the press is bloodthirsty. had i wished, i could've demolished you and your family. you make it easy.

speaker1: tell them anything you like. go ahead. ruin us. 
speaker2: i have too much respect for leo nikolayevich. you're lucky.
speaker1: why can't my husband see you for what you are?
speaker2: if i had a wife like you, i would have blown my brains out long ago. or gone to america.

speaker1: i hope you're feeling better. 
speaker2: do you like the opera?
speaker1: i took singing lessons for years. i thought about a career in music. the only thing i lacked, in the end, was talent. i'm sorry about everything.
speaker2: this aria is very beautiful.. it is about a woman who is abandoned by the man who loves her...everyone is very moved by that...in the opera.

speaker1: our life together has become intolerable. 
speaker2: sit down, valentin.
speaker3: really, i'm expected at telyatinki.
speaker2: no, no, no. enjoy your dinner. we've had a disagreement. no more than any other married couple.
speaker1: i didn't come for more recrimination. despite good cause for alienation between us, i have never stopped loving you.
speaker2: of course...
speaker1: knows you don't make it easy.
speaker2: why should it be easy? i'm the work of your life. you're the work of mine. its what love is.
speaker2: everything with him is hysterics
speaker3: i should go.
speaker1: sit down. so, this is what love is. does that surprise you, boy?
speaker3: i thought it might be quieter, but-

speaker1: he sneezes violently. 
speaker2: bless you tolstoy turns to sofya.
speaker3: he's right, though. if we cannot live a decent, quiet life, if i cannot work, if i cannot find some peace, i shall simply go away.
speaker4: go? where?
speaker3: not to chertkov, but i shall go.
speaker4: go where?
speaker3: dushan says you're killing me.
speaker4: then go! go! anywhere you please!
speaker4: i hate you. i hate what you've become.
speaker5: countess...are you alright?

speaker1: is she alright? 
speaker2: sofya! open your eyes.
speaker3: my back. my back... i'm hurting.
speaker2: you're lying on a fork. sit up and you'll improve markedly...valentin, help to get her upstairs, would you?
speaker2: she's alright. i'm more concerned for you... we should all go to bed before something else happens.

speaker1: it was terrible there today... between them. they loved each other so much, but you see what it becomes. 
speaker1: masha, whatâ´s the matter?

speaker1: i'm going back to moscow. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: chertkov spoke with me this afternoon. he says i could be more useful there...which means...
speaker2: this is him punishing us, punishing me for befriending sofya andreyevna. for not...
speaker1: we've both disappointed him.
speaker2: i don't care. you can't go away. i'll talk to him. i'll make him change his mind. iâ´m going to make you stay.
speaker1: no, i want to go.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm leaving the movement.
speaker2: you canâ´t leave tolstoy.
speaker1: i am not. look, when i read his confession, it moved me, valya. he was searching for freedom. freedom from anger. freedom from attachment. freedom from all the superstition and nonsense of the church. it moved me so much. i thought that's what it would be about. isn't that what it's about? freedom and love? but they mix it all up.

speaker1: come with me. please. 
speaker1: i'm going to my room.
speaker2: don't leave me, masha... i need you.
speaker1: i know you do...i know.

speaker1: i believe the countess suffers from a mental degeneracy, paranoic and hysterical, chiefly the former. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: why did you bring him here?
speaker2: he's an old friend, you know, from rome.
speaker3: and astoundingly stupid in the way of all scientists.

speaker1: i'm sorry, my friend, but this is all very upsetting to me. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: take them downstairs. thank them for me. offer them a drink.
speaker2: you'll be alright?
speaker1: valentin fedorovich will stay with me, won't you, boy
speaker3: ya...your...your...i canâ´t remember now...yo, what did i say? what did you mean?
speaker1: you rest now.

speaker1: good afternoon, leo nikolayevich. 
speaker2: is it?
speaker1: this will insure that the complete works will live in the public domain.
speaker3: monumentous.
speaker1: your work is the birthright of the russian people. now, they possess it forever.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i need a pen.
speaker1: of course.
speaker3: i...uh...
speaker1: what?
speaker1: you're a secretary. how can you not have a pen?
speaker3: he's a secretary, too. ask him.
speaker1: valentin fedorovich, do you have a pen?

speaker1: i do. 
speaker2: are you alright?
speaker3: i feel like a conspirator.

speaker1: maybe we should get back. it'll be dark soon. may i ask you something that has nothing to do with work? 
speaker2: of course, my dear.
speaker1: do you love your wife?
speaker2: " your youth and your desire for happiness reminds me cruelly of my age and the impossibility of happiness for me." when i was courting sofya, she was so young and pure, it seemed impossible that i'd ever have her. i didn't want to tell her how i felt and i wanted to tell her nothing else. so i wrote down a string of letters and asked her if she could decipher them. she looked completely confused, thinking it was a game or...

speaker1: i gave her one clue. the first two y's, i said, stand for "your youth" and then the most miraculous thing happened. she simply spoke the phrase, my phrase... 
speaker1: ...as if she had read my mind. in that moment, we both knew we would always be together. for those first years, we were incredibly happy, terrifyingly happy.
speaker1: and now this.

speaker1: thank you again, valentin fedorovich, for your forethought. 
speaker2: i'm a secretary, after all.
speaker1: you know i had thought for a time to suggest that leo nikolayevich look for someone else. but...he said no. he said "he reminds me of myself when i was young."
speaker2: i'm leaving telyatinki.

speaker1: really. 
speaker2: i am going to moscow.
speaker1: she is leading you around the nose.
speaker2: look, you say the movement's about love-
speaker1: yes... the love he tells us to practice, the love of the gospels. why do i have to explain this? perfect love. eternal love. the love that binds mankind together.
speaker2: but i've never met mankind, only men and women, imperfect men, imperfect women.
speaker1: leo nikolayevich also teaches us love can not be weakminded. go. you won't be missed ...a naive sentimentalist
speaker1: why are you laughing? you think i'm ridiculous.
speaker2: i'm laughing because i didn't sneeze.

speaker1: lyovochka? prozeveskeny wants to purchase the rights to your work after your death. 
speaker2: then i shall try and die as soon as is convenient.
speaker1: don't be silly. they've offered one million rubles.
speaker1: how can you not be pleased?
speaker2: i don't write for publishers. i write for people.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: valentin's in the library. he's asked to speak to me.
speaker1: splendid...while your wretched family is left to starve.
speaker2: i don't see anyone starving in this house. on the contrary, our privilege revolts me.
speaker1: but you're always first to the trough...always have been.

speaker1: sofya, what are you doing? 
speaker2: how could you do this to me?
speaker1: you're not well.
speaker2: you hurt me again and again. you take little pieces of me until i become nothing. i don't know who i am anymore. i read your diary. i know what you've done.
speaker1: you behave like this, i have no choice. now give me the gun.
speaker2: no! give me the gun!
speaker1: give it to me, please.

speaker1: i'd like you to stay here tonight. 
speaker2: yes, of course.

speaker1: valentin. valentin. 
speaker1: get up. he's leaving.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: heâ´s leaving.

speaker1: essentials only. nothing that isn't absolutely necessary. 
speaker1: please...we must hurry.

speaker1: where will you go? 
speaker2: absolutely essential.
speaker3: a lantern, i think. it's very dark tonight. and the apparatus for giving an enema.

speaker1: everything's ready. 
speaker1: papa...?
speaker2: he's changed his mind. he's going back to the house.
speaker3: do you want to go back?
speaker4: when i was a boy, my brother nikolai once brought me to a place when i was a boy. he told me he'd found a green stick with some words on it... the secret to happiness for all men everywhere. he hid it in the ground. i looked for it very often. i've looked for it all these years. i really believed i would find it here...but i never did.

speaker1: tolstoy looks at him. 
speaker2: i never did...but this life is behind me now.
speaker2: help me up, will you?
speaker2: give this to sofya.
speaker3: i will.
speaker4: be well. be well.
speaker2: don't cry. i'll send for you when i can.

speaker1: i'm simply telling you what happened. he's gone. i have no idea where. nobody does. 
speaker2: you're a liar. liar! sasha won't rise to the bait.

speaker1: so, he's gone. for good. 
speaker2: i think so, yes.
speaker3: darling sasha, where is your father? i know you know. please, please. don't play games with me.
speaker4: honestly, i have no idea.

speaker1: i have this for you. 
speaker2: the pond!

speaker1: sasha suddenly steams past him. 
speaker2: mama, mama! stop. not this.
speaker3: countess!

speaker1: my position in the house has become intolerable. what i'm doing now is what people have commonly done - leave their worldly life behind to spend their last days in peace and solitude. 
speaker1: i beg you to forgive me for everything i've done to you, just as i forgive you with all my soul for everything you've done to me.
speaker2: sasha, go back to the jetty. here, let me help you.
speaker3: no! she's drowning. help her!

speaker1: i will. i will. stay here. 
speaker2: she's dead. my mother. she's dead.
speaker2: let me take you to the house, mother.
speaker3: let me die. please. why would you rob me of that?
speaker2: let's go to the house.
speaker3: ivan, go to the station. find out which train the master took.
speaker2: i see no harm in it. let's get her to bed.
speaker4: life returns to torture her for awhile.

speaker1: she's exhausted herself. she's slept for nearly four hours. 
speaker2: i'm glad she can sleep. the pain subsides a little.
speaker1: the noise subsides a little.
speaker1: well, a little.
speaker1: come in.
speaker3: a message, miss.
speaker1: for me?
speaker3: no, for your father. from the countess, miss.
speaker1: she's allowed to send a note to my father. i just don't know where to tell her to send it.
speaker3: she's addressed it to train number 9. that's the train the master took. the station master told me...
speaker1: why are you giving it to me? she is allowed to send my father a note!
speaker1: she never gives up. "dearest papa. return at once.

speaker1: sasha sasha." she signed it with my name. 
speaker2: ingenious.
speaker3: obvious.
speaker3: yes?
speaker4: he gave me this as well...the stationmaster. a note for you.
speaker3: he's with my aunt. at the shamardino.

speaker1: i'm here. 
speaker2: you're writing to your girl. that's lovely.
speaker1: i don't know if she's my girl.

speaker1: but you believe you'll see her again. 
speaker2: i very much hope so.
speaker1: yes. refuse to believe in the end of love. do all you can to prevent it...
speaker1: i know you know where he is, valentin.
speaker1: i won't ask you to betray his trust...but i need you to go to him. i do. i have to see him. i have to talk to him. i won't make a scene. promise him that. i must see him.

speaker1: he's right, you know, to go. she will be right behind us. 
speaker2: iâ´ve told you she has promised she wouldnâ´t make any problems. but besides, where are we going?
speaker3: we don't need a plan, my dears, we'll simply go

speaker1: there's a reporter outside from the russian world. 
speaker2: tell him we've received an apologetic letter from your father..very embarrassed. we expect him back any day...
speaker1: but that's a lie, right?
speaker2: yes, that's a lie.

speaker1: please move back. please let him breath. please give him some room. 
speaker2: he canâ´t breath. valentin, please. the smoke is too much.
speaker3: i know. stay back.
speaker4: where are we?
speaker3: it's alright. everything's fine.
speaker4: where are we?
speaker3: let me take your temperature.
speaker4: good old dushan,...you needn't worry. remember, you are my doctor, not my angel. whatever happens, it's not your fault... i'm feeling much better now. i just need to sleep.
speaker3: good, good. yes.

speaker1: the stationmaster says we may have his house for as long as we need it. there are no inns nearby, so we're lucky. 
speaker2: very lucky.
speaker3: yes.
speaker4: you'll be comfortable here, papa. the rest of us...we'll find cots or sleep in the station.
speaker2: and then we'll be on our way.

speaker1: we must leave at once. 
speaker2: we'll make inquiries in the morning, mother.
speaker1: we'll rent a train.
speaker2: that'll cost a fortune.
speaker1: don't say irrelevant things, andrey. it's unbecoming. contact someone. i'll go and pack.
speaker2: rent a train?

speaker1: he left...astonishing...he actually, finally left. 
speaker2: he wasn't well enough to travel. it's very cold.
speaker1: it's a triumph for the movement.

speaker1: he looks so small. 
speaker2: papa.
speaker3: it'syou.
speaker1: my dear friend, waht is all of this?
speaker3: i needed to see you. thank you. we have so much to do. iâ´m sorry. hic ups. have you seen sofya?
speaker1: i've made a point not to.
speaker3: i don't know when she'll come. but she'll come . i know it.
speaker1: and we'll be ready.
speaker4: ready for what?

speaker1: chertkov doesn't respond. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, but it's time for your enema.
speaker3: don't apologize, my friend. your enemashave become the news of the world. now, all of you, help turn me over.

speaker1: i'd like to send another cable. 
speaker1: at astapovo. stop. tolstoy ill. stop. heart breaking. stop. please come.... that's it.
speaker1: it goes to masha...to maria filipovna melinov, moscow. thank you.

speaker1: if the count should have a change of heart...if in the last moment he chooses to confess, mother church is there to embrace him with open arms. 
speaker2: i'll see what i can do, father.

speaker1: she's coming this way. 
speaker2: not before she stops to tell them lies, catalogue my atrocities.
speaker3: let me speak to her.

speaker1: i want to see my husband. 
speaker2: yes i'll...uhm...
speaker1: i want to see him. now!
speaker3: countess!

speaker1: valentin...will you help me? i have to see him. please. 
speaker2: of course. but i'm not certain if itâ´s the best time, countess.
speaker1: it is. it's the right time for me.
speaker2: sofya andreyevna... stay back, stay back.

speaker1: i want to see my husband. 
speaker2: he's too weak now, mother.
speaker1: but he's not too weak to see you. not too weak to see that...
speaker3: do you really want to do this here?
speaker1: i am the leper outside the gate, while he sleeps with the devil himself.
speaker2: vladimir gregorovich is here because father asked him to be here.

speaker1: is that true? 
speaker1: have you told him i nearly drowned in the pond?
speaker2: we didn't have to. it was in all the papers.
speaker3: let me take you back.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: that if you killed yourself, he'd be upset.
speaker1: he'd be upset?
speaker2: horribly upset...but he could not have acted other than he did.
speaker1: i want to see him. he's not your husband. he's my husband.
speaker2: you're unbearable.
speaker1: and you are a stone-hearted of a daughter.

speaker1: i lost five children. why couldn't one of them have been you? 
speaker2: are you finished?
speaker1: valentin, will you take me back?
speaker3: yes, of course.
speaker1: i've behaved badly, haven't i?
speaker3: no, countess, don't worry. not at all.

speaker1: what is it? dushan, whatâ´s wrong? 
speaker2: listen to him. i'm supposed to be a doctor, for sake.
speaker3: sofya!
speaker2: what is it? what is it?
speaker3: she's come, hasn't she? she`s here.
speaker4: you're imagining things.
speaker2: it's true, leo nikolayevich.
speaker3: sasha...where's your mother?
speaker4: she's at home.
speaker3: if she wanted to see me i couldn't refuse her. is she going to come here?

speaker1: i don't think so...i don't know, papa. there's no way to... 
speaker2: to what?
speaker1: she's at home. i'm sure of it.
speaker2: at home.
speaker1: yes, papa.
speaker2: very beautiful isn't it?
speaker1: our home?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: he said to me once..."you're like your mother. you're so full of anger." she turns to him. 
speaker1: i know it's terrible...but who will protect him? i don't want him to die.

speaker1: kind thoughts from george bernard shaw. 
speaker2: you lied to him.
speaker1: keep your voice down.
speaker2: he wants to see her. you heard him say it.
speaker1: what exactly do you think she will bring him?
speaker2: i donâ´t know, theyâ´ve been married for 48 years.
speaker1: iâ´ll tell you what sheâ´ll bring...vanity, fuss and noise.
speaker2: she promised me-
speaker1: what? promised you what? youâ´ve seen her at close quarters, boy. you think sheâ´s capable of restraining herself?
speaker2: they have a whole life togehter.
speaker1: you're a victim of her romantic nonsense. you seem to forget she wants to destroy everything we do. she travels with that unctious little priest.
speaker2: keep the priest away-

speaker1: these people are vultures. they send in at the last moment and welcome him back to the church. that's their fantasy. a death bed recantation. do you have any idea the damage it would do? everything he's dreamed of, everything we've worked for will be gone. a simple noble death is what we want. it is what he wants. 
speaker2: no, you want an icon. you want to take photographs and give out postcards..you want people to kneel in front of an image youâ´ve created. but he doesnâ´t wanted that. he never wanted that, and it will give him no peace. he wants to see her...let her come.
speaker1: i will do everything in my power to prevent that.
speaker2: oh, you exhaust me.
speaker1: i used to think you were just naive, valentin, maybe a little stupid. i see now you're more dangerous than she is.
speaker2: tell me one thing. that image you want to create, just looks like you, doesnâ´t it?

speaker1: it can't be right. his fever is down. 
speaker2: his pulse, you see...
speaker3: sofya...my dear sofya. so much has fallen to her.
speaker3: who's going to look after her? someone needs to look after her.
speaker1: shall i call her?
speaker3: this is it. the end.

speaker1: he seems to smile. 
speaker2: do you want to see her, papa?
speaker3: sasha, sasha.. it'snothing...nothing.
speaker4: it's almost over.
speaker2: i can't do this anymore.
speaker4: he wonâ´t know who she is anyway.

speaker1: has he asked for me? 
speaker2: i want you to come. take a coat.

speaker1: lyovochka! 
speaker1: please forgive me, my darling!
speaker2: mother...
speaker1: i'm a fool.. i'm a selfish woman. but i love you. please believe me. please understand me. please forgive me for all my weakness and badness. please! please! love me!
speaker2: mother!
speaker2: control yourself.
speaker1: was i shouting?
speaker2: you have to control yourself.
speaker1: you don't speak, but i hear you.
speaker1: "do you love me, lyovochka." "never stopped, my little bird." "and you will never stop" "never." "nor ever leave me again." "never, ever again. "good...good... let's go home"

speaker1: first cessation. 
speaker1: second cessation.
speaker2: please forgive me if i cry a little now.
speaker3: i am sorry, sofya andreyevna.
speaker2: it's alright. what happens from now on... it will never really matter. not really. everything's finished.
speaker2: dushan, could you tell them your great friend is gone?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: at ten minutes after six in the morning, a great soul passed from our world. leo nikoleyevich tolstoy is dead. 
speaker2: masha...
speaker2: masha...masha...i'm so sorry he's gone. heâ´s gone.
speaker3: yes. yes. i know, but i came for you, valya. i came for you, too.
speaker2: i love you. i do. i love you.
speaker3: then, hold me. hold me. hold me.

speaker1: as a daughter of the church, i'm sure you wouldn't object to my saying a few words at the funeral. 
speaker2: my husband needs no justification. besides, itâ´s been enough talking as it is. thank you, father.

speaker1: excuse me, countess. this may not be the time, but- sofya smiles 
speaker2: valentin... and who's this...
speaker1: masha...this is masha.
speaker2: this is your girl. good. good. is there anything i can do for you?
speaker1: no, no. not at all. i just wanted to say good bye.
speaker2: yes...good bye, good bye. bless you.

speaker1: well, i'm ready to go now. why arenâ´t we moving? can't someone make it move? but at that moment, the train begins to move. 
speaker1: oh!

