speaker1: oh my i can't believe my eyes! look at these women! will you look at the gorgeous calves on them?! i'm telling you, give me an athlete any day... oh look at that redhead over there, and look at that one! christ, i hadn't noticed her. paul, i've just fallen madly in love with the most beautiful woman in the world... 
speaker2: oh yeah? which one?
speaker1: the blonde over there, she's too gorgeous for words. just look at those eyes, look at those shoulders and the way she moves. i'm in love. here, take over, i'll be right back.

speaker1: hello. i'm the captain of this plane. may i ask your name? 
speaker2: sure, my name is jane. why?
speaker1: listen, jane, i've seen many beautiful women in my life but i swear to you, i've never, ever met a woman as exquisite as you are.
speaker1: jane, can you feel my heart? it's pounding. this is horrible, i think i'm gonna faint. listen: i'm madly in love with you, i'm single and here's my phone number.
speaker1: i'm putting my fate in your hands. if you don't call me, you'll make me the most miserable man on earth. this is no line and i'm not trying to get you into bed. this is something completely different. i love you jane and if you call me i'll be the happiest man in the entire universe -- this is 'love at first sight.' out of all these beautiful women i noticed only you, and...
speaker3: are you paul?
speaker1: no, i'm not.

speaker1: my name's jack and i live in a fabulous apartment in manhattan overlooking the park and... 
speaker2: but you're the pilot, aren't you?
speaker3: yes, i'm the pilot... ... i'm not even asking for your phone number...
speaker2: isn't there a pilot whose name is paul?
speaker3: yeah, the copilot -- he's up front... the businessman disappears in the direction of the cockpit.
speaker3: i'm leaving it all up to you, jane, but if you do give me your phone number, then jane, then...
speaker2: are you paul?
speaker4: yeah... are you jim?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: here's your cash.
speaker4: what about the stuff?
speaker2: i don't have it. we've got problems. too much heat. too

speaker1: risky. we think the cops are on to us. 
speaker2: whadda ya mean us? you mean me?
speaker3: i mean shut up and listen. two guys will be waiting for you in a black t-bird, expecting the dope. just ignore them. it'll be delivered to you on sunday and picked up the following thursday, okay?
speaker2: but i won't be home, i'll be in the air for two weeks.
speaker3: that's your problem. make arrangements, a deal's a deal.
speaker2: got it.
speaker4: i got her phone number! she gave me her phone number!
speaker3: that's some magnificent view, isn't it?
speaker4: it's wonderful -- life is wonderful!
speaker4: this is your captain speaking. in honor of your victory, in honor of your beauty, and in honor of jane, the most beautiful gymnast i have ever met. i'm going to give you a little demonstration of aviation gymnastics -- reserved only for the most important guest, hip, hip...

speaker1: what a woman! 
speaker1: wanna share a cab? paul yeah, sure!
speaker1: she's so beautiful! i've never been so in love before. can you believe she gave me her phone number... oh, christ -- where is it?... oh, no, don't tell me i lost it... it's a matter of life and death... oh here it is -- thank
speaker2: they're slowing down. take a picture.
speaker3: listen, i need a favor, i got

speaker1: a little problem. 
speaker2: yeah, sure... hey, look, will you -- look at that sparkling beauty.
speaker3: yeah... i mean, it's like...
speaker2: she'll never make it with all that luggage she's got. i gotta give her a hand. look at the colors in her hair! christ, i've never seen a woman like her before...
speaker3: jack, listen, can i...
speaker2: sure you can, no problem... listen, i gotta go now, i'm gonna see if she'll share a cab with me. you take the shuttle, okay?
speaker3: but i gotta explain to you about...
speaker2: come over to my place tonight. we're having a huge party. come around 9, okay? see ya later.
speaker2: as exquisite as you are... i think i'm gonna faint.

speaker1: this is no line and i'm not trying to get you into bed. this is something completely different. this is 'love at first sight.' oh, i'm so happy... let me go get you a glass of champagne. i'll be right back. jack gets up and goes over to the buffet. as soon as he's out of the girl's line of sight, he starts running toward the other end of the apartment. on the way he passes michael, who's deeply engrossed in a vehement conversation about modern art with a girl called sophia. they're fighting like cats and dogs but seem to be enjoy- ing it. 
speaker2: are you saying that's art, are you really saying that's art?
speaker3: it goes back to prehistoric man. they had comic strips on their walls, for sake.
speaker1: i'm having a hard time. i'm working on two at once.
speaker3: oh yeah, who?
speaker1: the brunette in the armchair in the living room -- her name's rosalie...

speaker1: and the other one? 
speaker2: clementine -- she's waiting for me in the den.
speaker3: you guys have a beautiful place here. but the rent must be a killer.
speaker3: isn't it a killer?
speaker4: what?...
speaker4: oh, the rent... yeah, it's high but split between the three of us it isn't that bad, as long as we don't eat.
speaker5: hi peter, i'm looking for jack, have you seen him?
speaker4: oh hi, paul, how are you doing? yeah, sure, i'll take you to jack. excuse me for a minute.
speaker4: you're a lifesaver, i've been trying to get away from that woman

speaker1: for 20 minutes. that carl is moving in on my natalie. 
speaker2: wait -- what about jack?
speaker3: he's around somewhere. check under all the couches. paul walks off in jack's direction. we stay with peter, who reaches natalie. she is talking with a very styl- ishly-dressed, tall, young man, carl.
speaker3: oh natalie, i've been looking for you all night.
speaker4: all night? i just saw you deep in conversation with nicole!
speaker3: deep? no, we were just talking shop.
speaker5: oh come on peter, we all know what a ladies' man you are.
speaker3: who, me? jack's the ladies' man, not me. you're the only lady i'm after.
speaker4: so tell me, how's your project coming along? i heard you're not ready yet.
speaker3: we've still got two weeks left before the semi-finals. we'll be ready.
speaker4: we've been ready for three days now. we're gonna kick your ass.
speaker5: their project is really incredible.
speaker3: oh really? you've seen it?

speaker1: no, it's top secret but he's been telling me about it... 
speaker2: ours is incredible too.
speaker3: if you ever get it finished.
speaker4: jack, can i talk to you for a second?
speaker5: oh, hi, paul, yeah sure...
speaker5: ... please darling, don't move... i'll be right back, okay? i'll bring us back some champagne...
speaker5: you're a lifesaver, paul. i thought i'd never get away. rosalie's waiting for me in the living room. isn't she terrific?
speaker4: who? rosalie?
speaker5: clementine.
speaker4: oh yeah, for sure, i dunno. listen, can you do me a favor?

speaker1: yeah... what kind of favor? damn, i've got to get her a glass of champagne. 
speaker2: listen, i've got a little problem. i'm having a valuable package delivered to me on sunday, but i'm not going to be home. i've got to do the hawaii-tahiti-australia route, so can i have the package delivered here instead?
speaker1: yeah, sure, of course. no, wait, i'm leaving for south america tomorrow. i'll be gone for three weeks.
speaker1: but it's okay. peter and michael will be here. they'll take care of it.
speaker2: will you be sure to tell them about it?
speaker1: absolutely. don't worry about a thing.
speaker2: it'll be delivered sunday and picked up next thursday, okay?
speaker1: delivered sunday picked up thursday. got it. no problem.
speaker2: this is a very delicate matter, jack. it's very important they don't tell anybody about this package. it could be very... uh, embarrassing for me, you know what i'm saying?
speaker1: sure. you got it. i'll see you later...

speaker1: not to anyone at all. tell them that, okay? 
speaker2: okay, sure, not to anyone at all... look, i'm sorry paul, but i gotta get back to rosalie. now go have a good time. i'll take care of everything.
speaker1: bye and thanks a lot.
speaker2: don't mention it. paul leaves.
speaker2: uh-oh. too late.
speaker3: all's fair, old buddy...
speaker2: oh my darling, oh my darling, oh my darling clementine.

speaker1: natalie, why don't you stay for a nightcap? 
speaker2: no, i've gotta get up early...

speaker1: do you care to share a cab? 
speaker2: oh yes, thanks -- that's really nice of you...
speaker1: good night, peter.
speaker3: good night, carl... i'll call you sunday, natalie.
speaker4: so you struck out again with natalie, huh? that carl is a real smooth operator.
speaker3: he's an asshole! 'i heard you're not ready yet.' 'we're gonna kick your ass.' well, we may be behind schedule, but we're still going to beat that and maybe i haven't scored with natalie yet, but neither has he. she's not an easy lay, that's what i like about her. you know what they say: it ain't over till it's over. peter and michael go into the living room. peter is picking up glasses. michael is emptying ashtrays into the wastebasket.
speaker4: well, i didn't do so well either -- i blew it with rosalie. i don't even know how...
speaker3: who's rosalie?
speaker4: that beauty i managed to swipe

speaker1: from jack. i was about to ask her to stay the night when... 
speaker2: your old friend sophia appeared and got you involved in a thrilling conversation about modern art, and meanwhile rosalie...
speaker3: how could you know that?
speaker2: michael, all you want to do is steal jack's girl friends. you don't give a about the women themselves...
speaker3: that's not true. it's just that sophia drives me crazy. she knows all the right buttons to push to make me mad.
speaker2: anyway, it was a great party, everyone had a good time...
speaker3: terrific... time.

speaker1: where's jack? did he leave? 
speaker2: no, he's cuddling up with a blonde named clementine...
speaker1: that's not clementine. i saw him doing his famous routine with christie...

speaker1: no, it is clementine, the one with the this big... 
speaker2: christie's got that big, too...
speaker1: yeah, but he was with christie at the beginning of the evening -- after that he was with rosalie and then with clementine. and since i stole rosalie away from him... are you following this?
speaker2: i'm not.
speaker3: nice work if you can get it, and you can get it if you try... any scotch left?
speaker2: yeah, here, i just put it away.
speaker3: sorry i can't give you guys a hand, but i've got something cooking.
speaker2: i thought you were leaving at dawn for south america?
speaker3: i am, the night's still young!... it's gonna be a lively one. i'm gonna make us a little snack.
speaker1: so, who is it anyway -- christie or clementine?
speaker3: maxine. beautiful, enchanting maxine.

speaker1: hey, michael -- how'd it go with rosalie? 
speaker2: well, things were going great until...
speaker1: your old friend sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime rosalie took off with someone else.
speaker2: how did you know?
speaker1: i dunno -- lucky guess...
speaker2: well, i don't give a anyway, i have 24 drawings to hand in to my editor three days from now and i gotta work all night anyway... so it was all for the best. but you better not leave that maxine's phone number lying around because when i'm done...
speaker1: don't worry, i'll leave you her phone number on the hall table. if she's really terrific i'll put a big 'x' next to it. 'bye, guys -- love ya. i won't wake you tomorrow morning. see you in three weeks...

speaker1: jack is in the cockpit with his copilot, ron. the 
speaker2: i forgot to tell them about the package! i gotta make a quick phone call.
speaker3: jack, there'll be plenty of girls where we're going.
speaker2: oh, c'mon, i've really got to make a phone call! what do you think i'm going to do, pick up one of the new jersey delegates to the i.b.m. convention?

speaker1: the model's not finished, the blueprints are a mess and you may as well forget the specs, they're a disaster! i know we're talented. i know we're good. then why is it we can never get organized? why is it we're always behind schedule? 
speaker2: look, jerry, architects since leonardo have always been behind schedule. it's a tradition, for

speaker1: sake. why break with tradition? 
speaker2: because this is the chance of a lifetime for our company, and there happens to be a deadline. there are millions of dollars at stake here. and our main competition had their project in three days ago!
speaker3: yeah, but word around town is their project's a piece of
speaker2: of course, it's a piece of but it's a ready piece of
speaker4: we're just going to have to buckle down, that's all.
speaker2: you're right we are. starting now, everybody works around the clock! everybody! we have two weeks to be ready for the semi- final selection. and we will be ready. and we will win. you want to know why we'll win?
speaker4: because we're gonna cheat.
speaker3: i'll go bribe the judges!
speaker2: i don't think this is a joking matter, gentlemen.
speaker3: come on, jerry...
speaker5: there's an urgent call for you, peter.
speaker3: i'm not in.

speaker1: it's jack -- he says it's 'super important...' peter picks up the phone. 
speaker2: hi... yeah... listen, make it quick, i'm in a meeting here... yeah, a package... okay... someone'll drop it off sunday and pick it up thursday... no problem ... yeah... we'll put it aside, okay... no, no, we won't tell anybody about it... is that it?... right, we won't tell anyone... hey -- love 'n' kisses to the brazilian girls, vaya con dios, old buddy.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: i'm going out for bagels -- how many you want, three or four? 
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: eleven-thirty.
speaker2: a.m. or p.m.?
speaker1: a.m. c'mon, up 'n' at 'em.
speaker2: up 'n' at 'em yourself, -- i just went to bed.

speaker1: did you finish? 
speaker2: nah, i didn't get anywhere.
speaker3: well then... nap time's over. back to work. so how many bagels, three or four?
speaker2: six, six!

speaker1: you gotta be kidding! 
speaker1: michael! michael!
speaker2: what?
speaker1: get your out here and see what's on the doorstep. this has gotta be somebody's idea of a joke!
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: look for yourself.
speaker2: it's a basket with a baby in it.

speaker1: no 'dearest jack, here is the fruit of our love. take good care of her. i have to go to europe and japan for six months, her name is mary. good luck, love, sylvia.' 
speaker2: what are we going to do with it?
speaker1: give it back to her mother, that's what.
speaker2: but it says she went to europe.
speaker1: well, we'll see about that, d'you have her phone number?
speaker2: whose phone number?
speaker3: the girl's... sylvia's...
speaker2: why the would i have her number? i've never even heard of this chick!
speaker1: you mean you don't know who she is?
speaker2: no way. if i had to keep track of all jack's girlfriends, i'd have to be a full-time secretary.
speaker1: well, what are we gonna do?
speaker2: hey, look, she's waking up...
speaker1: oh no, this can't be happening!

speaker1: uh-oh, now she's really crying! 
speaker2: what's her problem?
speaker3: maybe she's hungry?
speaker2: well, what are we s'posed to do?
speaker3: feed her, i guess...
speaker2: yeah, but what?
speaker3: soft stuff... i guess.
speaker2: oh no, i swear to this is unreal! can you believe that jack?! 'a little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till thursday.' put it aside -- can you believe him!?
speaker3: really? jack said that?
speaker2: yeah and he also said 'don't tell anyone about it -- anyone at all.'
speaker3: oh, so he told you about this?
speaker2: yeah, he told me a package would be coming today, but he didn't say it'd be this!
speaker3: boy, he's got a helluva nerve!
speaker2: just listen to the racket she's making! what are we s'posed to do?
speaker3: let's call jack's mother!

speaker1: she lives in miami for christsake. she can't stop the baby crying from miami. 
speaker2: well, just to ask her advice...
speaker1: no, he said not to tell anyone...
speaker2: but this is an emergency!
speaker1: no! no way! you know what a pain that woman is -- she'll be on the next plane here to move in with us...
speaker2: maybe i should call my mother...
speaker1: no, please -- leave the mothers out of this, okay?! it's only four days. we should be able to handle that, besides you know the rule around here: it's fine to have a woman over once in a while, but...
speaker3: ... never for more than one night at a time!
speaker1: and that includes mothers!
speaker2: where are you going?!
speaker1: i'm going to the store to buy some baby food.
speaker2: what am i supposed to do while you're gone?
speaker1: pick her up and hold her.

speaker1: what aisle's baby food on? 
speaker2: down there by the meat section.

speaker1: depends on what your pediatrician recommends. 
speaker2: oh right, the pediatrician...
speaker1: this kind.
speaker2: oh, so this is the best kind?
speaker1: it's the cheapest.
speaker2: then it's the worst kind?
speaker1: they're all good, sir.
speaker2: oh, okay, then i can take this kind.
speaker1: it's got iron in it.
speaker2: oh. is that good or bad?
speaker1: it's very good.
speaker2: well, why don't they all have iron in them?
speaker1: some babies are allergic to iron.
speaker2: oh, okay, well i'll take this kind then.
speaker1: that kind doesn't have any milk in it.

speaker1: oh, i see, there's milk with no milk in it? 
speaker2: some babies are allergic to milk.
speaker1: so what's the stuff that no babies are allergic to?
speaker2: soy formula.
speaker1: oh, okay, i'll take the soy formula.
speaker2: that one's advance.
speaker1: oh really? what's advance?
speaker2: how old's your baby?
speaker1: uh... about this old.

speaker1: rock-a-bye baby on the tree top... 
speaker1: stop crying now; c'mon, stop... quit it, will you?... when the wind blows, the cradle will rock... what is that jerk doing? milking the cows or something?... when the bough breaks the cradle will fall...

speaker1: does she have any teeth yet or not? that would give us a clue as to how old she is. 
speaker2: i haven't looked.
speaker3: my grandson's only five months old and he already has two teeth. but my daughter didn't have a single one at seven months -- so, y'know, how many teeth they have...
speaker4: but didn't those friends of yours tell you what formula they usually give the baby?
speaker2: no, actually they had to leave unexpectedly. they had to catch a plane...
speaker1: is she teething?
speaker2: teething?
speaker1: does she drool? does she cry all night long? does she chew on her fists? does she put everything into her mouth?
speaker2: i know she can't talk.

speaker1: but didn't those friends of yours tell you how old she was? 
speaker2: i told you they had to leave unexpectedly.
speaker3: or else you could weigh her; that would tell you how old she is.
speaker4: see, my five-month-old grandson weighs more than my neighbor's grandson and he's nine months old. so, y'know, how much they weigh...
speaker2: so what about me? what should i buy?
speaker5: didn't they even tell you the pediatrician's name?
speaker2: no. they didn't.
speaker5: you sure have weird friends.
speaker2: you have no idea how weird.
speaker3: or else her hair. does she have lots of hair?
speaker4: my grandson, y'know, he has so much hair you can make a ponytail with it! and i know some kids who are totally bald at a year- and-a-half. so, y'know, how much hair they have... doesn't mean a thing...
speaker3: gee, he's really something, your grandson -- is he good at math too?

speaker1: peter starts to pick cans off the shelf. 
speaker2: look, ladies, thanks for all the advice. but i think i'll just take one of each. to be on the safe side.
speaker3: don't forget -- if the baby's less than three months old, you have to be sure to sterilize the bottles.
speaker2: what bottles?
speaker4: you know what? this must be a kidnapping.

speaker1: mary had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb, if that jerk isn't back in three seconds i swear i'll throw her down the garbage chute... mary had a little lamb, little lamb... 
speaker1: well, it's about time!
speaker1: where the have you been?
speaker1: oh -- hi, mrs. razzolini!

speaker1: this package came for you... oh! what a cute little baby! 
speaker2: no, it's not me, i mean she's not mine...
speaker1: oh, so it's peter's?
speaker2: no, no, it's jack's, i mean it's not jack's, it's... someone loaned it to us, i mean someone...
speaker1: and what's the little girl's name?
speaker2: mary.
speaker1: ooh, what a pwetty wittle name, mary! i didn't know you had a baby...
speaker2: yeah, well, i have to put her to bed now.
speaker1: you have to put her to bed? where's mary's mommy?
speaker2: she's... she's not here. she'll be back soon.
speaker1: oh here, this just came for you. they just dropped it off. can i hold her for a second?
speaker2: well, like, y'see... she doesn't like to be held by strangers...

speaker1: she loves to be held by strangers! hey, she's soaking wet hmm, no i think it's number 2. want me to give you a hand changing her? 
speaker2: oh no, don't worry, i'm used to it. well, so long, mrs. razzolini.
speaker1: 'bye, mary, i'll come back to visit.
speaker2: what a leech! and that other isn't back yet!
speaker2: so you love to be held by strangers, do you?

speaker1: this guy doesn't even know how old his baby is and you don't find that strange? 
speaker2: this guy asked for advice, i'm giving him advice, okay? if you're so paranoid, why don't you run home and chain your kid to his crib?
speaker1: anyway, i think someone should call the cops.

speaker1: the cops, the cops -- i bet you call the cops every time your cat on the carpet. 
speaker2: what the were you doing? you've been gone for hours! this kid's been crying the whole time. i've got a lot better things to do with my time! you're a real pain in the ass!
speaker3: hey, how dare you speak to me like that! you've never spoken to me like that before...
speaker2: well, what the took you so long? what'd you do, go out for breakfast or something? i didn't even have time for a cup of coffee, for chrissakes.
speaker3: will you please cut it out for a second, huh? i didn't have any coffee either, it took me forever at the safeway.
speaker2: okay, well, here -- take the kid, i've got work to do.
speaker3: whaddaya mean, take the kid? i can't hold her and make her bottle at the same time. and why should i be the one to hold her?
speaker2: 'cause, it's your problem. you found this kid.
speaker3: hey, asshole, i'm the one who found

speaker1: her because i'm the one who was gonna get you some bagels for your breakfast, and... 
speaker2: there she goes again! we gotta feed her something.
speaker3: yeah, well you just don't feed a baby. first you gotta look and see if she has any teeth or not.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: to figure out how old she is so we know what to feed her, that's why.
speaker2: do you look on top or bottom?
speaker3: how do i know?
speaker2: try feeling with your finger.
speaker3: i can't feel anything -- i'll give her the stuff for newborns and hope she's not allergic to it.
speaker3: and then we'll have to see if she's allergic to iron, to soy or to milk -- you can't imagine how much stuff they can be allergic to!
speaker2: she's soaking wet -- did you buy any diapers?
speaker3: diapers?

speaker1: excuse me, miss, could you tell me which diapers are the most absorbent? 
speaker2: i would suggest the ones that say 'ultra-absorbent.'
speaker1: yeah, but which are better: 20-35 pounds or 12-24 pounds?
speaker2: depends how much your baby weighs.
speaker1: oh right, how much she weighs...
speaker2: you wouldn't happen to have a friend who came in here a little while ago, would you?
speaker1: i have no idea what you're talking about! he's no friend of mine.
speaker3: oh my slacks! her, she took a crap!

speaker1: hold her. hold her, it! 
speaker2: i can't hold her. this kid's out of control here!
speaker1: just gimme the cotton.
speaker1: oh for chrissake, don't just let go of her!
speaker2: then get the cotton yourself if you don't want me to let go of her!
speaker1: take the towels off -- they're full of
speaker2: but the couch'll get dirty!
speaker1: yeah, but she keeps getting it all over herself. man, this is sticky!... we need cleaning fluid or something to get it off...
speaker2: how 'bout after-shave?
speaker1: are you kidding?! waste our saint laurent on babyshit?
speaker2: okay, let's just put the diaper

speaker1: on and the with it. 
speaker2: right.
speaker2: these tape things -- do they go on the front or the back?
speaker3: how am i supposed to know...?
speaker2: hold her under her arms -- i'm gonna try it this way.
speaker2: what the kind of lousy stinking diapers did you get?
speaker3: i don't think they're too big -- they're ultra-absorbent. that's all. the more absorbent the better.
speaker2: how the do these tape things work? hold her for chrissakes!
speaker3: my arms are getting tired.
speaker2: there. i got it.
speaker2: it. i didn't make it tight enough.

speaker1: it's not working... what about laying her down? 
speaker2: go ahead... no, not on the towels, they're all covered with crap...
speaker2: ... what the is this friggin' mess? oh, man, this is unbelievable! to think, they bombard us day and night with their tv commercials! and will you look at this junk? this stuff is pure -- you tape it closed, it sags, you undo the tape: bingo -- the whole thing falls apart!
speaker1: well, whaddya expect, if you pull on it like an ape, it's gonna rip!
speaker2: michael, will you give me a break, will you please?
speaker2: oh now she's pissing. look at the couch. the sneaky little was just waiting for me to get the diaper off, then whammo...
speaker2: i happen to like my furniture. i'm going out to get some real diapers. you can clean the couch up in the meantime.

speaker1: maybe she's allergic to something? 
speaker2: or maybe she's hungry again.
speaker1: already?

speaker1: hand on her backside, then picks her up again. 
speaker2: oh she's soaking wet again.

speaker1: oh no you're not, you're not gonna leave me alone with her. 
speaker2: i told you -- i have a date.
speaker1: you rotten -- do you see me going out on any dates?
speaker2: look, it's with natalie -- i've been after her for months already.
speaker1: so what! if you leave me alone with this kid, i swear i'll pack up and be outta here by morning.
speaker2: you're a real drag, y'know? tonight was gonna be my big night! now i bet it's gonna be carl's big night.

speaker1: hello, natalie? it's peter. listen, i'm really screwed. jerry just called and we've run into a snag with the blueprints for the competition, it's an emergency. i've gotta go over to the office right away, i think it's gonna be an all-nighter... of course i didn't know about this yesterday -- he just called me. 
speaker1: hello? hello?... no, i'm not trying to hang up on you. we're having some problems with the phone, that's all... no, natalie, there's no one else here! you're the only woman i... i swear i'm not lying to you... what? you're going to call carl? okay, go ahead, call him if you want. i don't give a of course i'm not jealous. what makes you think i'm jealous?

speaker1: promised. in fact, it won't be until the day after tomorrow at the soonest. 
speaker2: on second thought, mr. oxman... uh, better make that the end of next week. please don't get upset, mr. oxman. i'll do everything possible to get them to you sooner... you have my word... i apologize again, mr. oxman... thank you again, mr. oxman. goodb... ... mr. oxman? hello, mr. oxman?

speaker1: basket is on one of the couches. mary is asleep. 
speaker2: he didn't say what time?
speaker3: all he said was thursday.
speaker2: terrific! -- we could rot here till eight o'clock tonight.
speaker3: well, i'm prepared to rot here till midnight if i have to, as long as we get rid of her.
speaker2: jack really could have called. he has to have gotten our message by now.
speaker3: well, when he does call, i'm gonna let him have it! that is on the beaches of brazil proposing to the whole world. and we're here living in hell! he's gonna get his on the next plane back here. vacation's over, jack-baby, you better believe it.
speaker2: right! it's almost time for her bottle, you know.
speaker3: oh hell!

speaker1: jack collins live here? 
speaker2: yes, he does.
speaker1: we came for the package.
speaker3: package? oh that's cute, referring to her as a package! anyway, you can tell sylvia she's a lousy stinking
speaker1: sylvia?
speaker3: yeah, sylvia! you can tell her she's got a of a nerve dumping her problems into our laps!
speaker1: problems? did you guys have trouble?

speaker1: he wants to know if we had trouble! 
speaker2: do you have any idea what it's been like around here for the past four days?
speaker3: she could have at least given us a phone number or the name of someone to contact...
speaker4: i don't get it. didn't they tell you we were gonna be here today?
speaker3: sure they told us! so what? that doesn't make the last four days any less hellish than they were!
speaker2: well, anyway, they're here now, that's all that matters!
speaker2: the next bottle's in 45 minutes. i made it already. it's in the basket.
speaker4: bottle? whadda ya mean, bottle?
speaker3: about an hour after her bottle, she starts yawning. put her to bed right away or it's pure for the next three hours, at least that's what we've noticed.
speaker4: what the is that? a baby?
speaker2: no, it's a very short teenager. of course it's a baby! now listen carefully: i'm giving you a can of the milk she's been getting.

speaker1: she's not allergic to it. i even put a can of the same brand in here for you, but in powdered form, understand? 
speaker2: oh! i get it! powdered milk!
speaker3: yeah, right... real clever... okay, here. she's all yours. good luck.
speaker2: okay, i got it. you can take her out now.
speaker3: take what out? i'm not taking anything out.
speaker2: wait a minute, i don't get it! we take the basket and the milk, that's all. we ain't gonna take the... what's inside.
speaker3: whadda ya mean, what's inside?
speaker4: you take it all, man! it's a package deal!
speaker2: but what are we s'posed to do with it?
speaker4: how do i know? you take it where they told you to take it.
speaker2: y'mean, i take it to the connection?
speaker4: yeah, whatever you want to call it.
speaker2: are you sure that's the plan?

speaker1: you bet that's the plan! we're not keeping her one more second. 
speaker2: okay, if that's the plan...
speaker2: ... here, hold this. okay, so long!
speaker3: uh... listen... maybe you could leave us the address or the phone number just in case. so we can find out how she's doing?
speaker2: oh, yeah, sure, the address. oh i don't have it on me...
speaker4: so long!
speaker3: aah, relief at last! good riddance!
speaker1: you said it! now maybe i can get some work done.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: well, a package, i guess.
speaker1: was this package delivered to you?
speaker2: yeah, why?
speaker1: when the did this package arrive?
speaker2: will you quit shouting!
speaker1: when did this package arrive, michael?
speaker2: i don't know... oh yeah, sunday -- mrs. razzolini brought it up...
speaker1: holy
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker1: this is the package those guys came for, not the baby, you
speaker2: hey, yourself!... oh
speaker1: look out the window and see if you see them, i'm gonna try to

speaker1: catch up with them... michael runs to the window. 
speaker2: 
speaker2: what the is this? he picks up a few packets and examines them.
speaker2: oh, no... dope! that's all we need!

speaker1: we'd be better off taking the subway. 
speaker2: you want to ride the subway with a hundred grand in uncut dope, go ahead.
speaker1: well we can't ride around carrying this baby basket. we'll get stopped by the cops.
speaker2: so go ahead, take the subway and stop bothering me. i'm going to hook this onto the back seat.

speaker1: it'll never hold, man. 
speaker2: hook! christ, what a stupid idea hiding the with this kid. it's ridiculous!
speaker3: oh, thank you're still here! there's been a terrible mistake. that wasn't the package you were s'posed to take. it was another one. i have it right here.
speaker2: what do you mean? what other package?
speaker3: i'll take the basket back and give you the other package, here. no mistake.
speaker2: you ain't takin' nothin' back, man.
speaker3: but i'm tellin you it was a mistake...
speaker2: you tryin' to double-cross us or something? beat it before i get pissed, man.
speaker3: but i'm telling you, i've got your package right here. there's been a mistake...

speaker1: a mistake my ass! now get outa here, man, or i'm gonna stick this right in your gut. 
speaker1: start the bike.
speaker2: but i'm telling you, i've got the real package in my pocket.
speaker3: watch it, the cops!
speaker4: terrific! i bet these morons screw up everything.
speaker1: if you called the cops on us, pal, you're a dead man.
speaker5: all right, what's that doing on the back of the bike?
speaker5: you wouldn't by any chance be intending to drive with a baby basket on your motorcycle, would you?
speaker1: of course not, officer. we'd never do something like that.

speaker1: so why did you strap it on in the first place if you had no intention of driving with it? 
speaker2: so it wouldn't fall off.
speaker1: very funny.
speaker3: no, really, officer, they weren't gonna drive off with it -- they were just watching it for me while i was doing a quick errand. thanks, guys.
speaker1: all right, let's see some identification, everybody.
speaker4: go!
speaker1: watch the guy with the basket! cop 2 leaps out of the car, gun in hand.
speaker5: freeze! all right, asshole, let's see some i.d.
speaker3: listen, officer, let's stay calm now. i haven't the slightest intention of running. i am not a criminal. i'm an architect.

speaker1: i'm terribly sorry, officer, but i don't have any identification on me. i just came down with my baby to run a quick errand. i haven't committed any crime. 
speaker2: all right, let's go, in the car. i'm taking you down to the station.
speaker1: oh, c'mon, that's impossible -- you see i have a baby. i have to give her a bottle in fifteen minutes, i can't go anywhere. i live right in this building -- let me go up to my apartment and i'll get you my license immediately... you can even come with me if you like...
speaker2: all right, lead the way.
speaker3: inspector graton, narcotics. it just so happens i was tailing those two guys and now because of you clowns i lost them, probably forever. thanks a lot!
speaker4: how could we know?
speaker3: forget it. listen, your partner went in here with the guy and the baby. he lives up on the tenth floor. i can't go in because if he sees me, my cover is blown. so could you please try not to lose this one, okay? he's someone who's

speaker1: gotta be watched very closely. i've called for backup and it's on its way. 
speaker2: this is it. please come in... can i get you a cup of coffee or something?
speaker3: no thanks. i'll just wait out here.
speaker4: hey, what's happening? what were those cops doing...
speaker2: michael... michael... we're in deep trouble. the package...
speaker4: yeah? what?
speaker2: there's a cop on the doorstep... he didn't see you... he mustn't see you... we're in deep trouble, michael...
speaker4: tell me what...
speaker2: the package they came for wasn't the baby, it was dope, drugs, a shitload of dope! we were stopped by some cops down on the street.

speaker1: but did the cops see the dope? 
speaker2: no, it's right here.
speaker1: 
speaker2: we'll get twenty years if the cops find this on us! climb down the fire escape and hide it... anywhere!
speaker2: hey, whatever you do, don't lose the dope, we gotta be able to return it to those dealers or we're dead. those guys are serious.
speaker1: don't worry.
speaker1: oh, by the way, i put some water up to boil for her bottle.
speaker2: here's my license.
speaker3: i'm afraid i'm going to have to ask you to remain in the apartment. the narcotics squad will be arriving any moment now. they want to ask you a few questions.
speaker2: narcotics squad? what do they want with me? i don't even use aspirin!

speaker1: hello, officers... what's going on? 
speaker2: don't worry, michael, it's nothing serious, just a little misunderstanding.
speaker1: did you give her the 5:30 bottle?
speaker2: yeah, i just gave it to her.

speaker1: did you change her? 
speaker2: no, she's soaking wet.
speaker1: okay, i'll do it.

speaker1: and who's he? 
speaker2: he's my roommate.
speaker1: oh, i see, i see...
speaker2: no, you don't see. there are three of us sharing this place.
speaker1: oh, three, huh? a regular 'mirage a trois'!
speaker2: it's 'menage'... and it's not. we all have lots of girlfriends, thank you.
speaker1: uh-huh, so what's your friend do?
speaker2: he's a cartoonist.
speaker1: what about the other guy?
speaker2: he's a pilot.
speaker1: ah-hah... now that's interesting...

speaker1: ... get me those photographs, the ones taken at newark airport. 
speaker2: so does this friend of yours ever fly to south america?
speaker3: no. never. only north america.
speaker2: would you object if i answered it for you?
speaker3: not at all, go right ahead. i've got nothing to hide.
speaker4: it's a collect call from a jack collins in la paz, bolivia. that wouldn't happen to be your pilot friend, would it? the one who never goes to south america?
speaker3: yes, it is him.
speaker3: hello, yes, operator, i accept the charges.
speaker2: would you mind very much if i listened?
speaker3: please, go right ahead.
speaker3: hello, jack? fine, yeah. how're you? yeah, he's fine, too. yeah, we left a message for you, right... no, it was nothing

speaker1: special, it was just, i mean... to see how you were doing and all ... no, no emergency. everything's fine. 
speaker2: i said everything's fine! the what?... i don't know what you're talking about... oh yeah, the package! yeah, yeah, it got here ... and was picked up, uh-huh. hey! why didn't you call sooner? huh? 'cause what?... oh, you're onto something hot -- well, aren't you the lucky one!... so when are you getting married?... forget it, i was just kidding... well, everything's fine up here. so have a good time. see you in a couple of weeks. 'bye.
speaker3: now that's interesting. so you wanna tell me about this package and the hot something-or-other your friend lucked onto... in la paz... bolivia... south america?

speaker1: okey-dokey, honeybunch, it's time to go beddy-bye now... we're gonna take a nice long nappy-wappy... 
speaker2: do you recognize anyone in this picture?
speaker3: sure. this is jack collins.
speaker2: oh yeah? now that's interesting.
speaker1: so! can i get you something to drink?
speaker2: so, who's the baby belong to?
speaker3: it's jack's daughter.
speaker2: and why are you two taking care of her?
speaker3: because her mother's in europe for six months, and since jack had to be away for two weeks, i took my vacation to take care of her, i love kids.
speaker1: yeah, peter and i just love kids!
speaker2: now that's interesting. well, we'll be seeing each other again soon, in fact very soon. in the

speaker1: meantime, i'd appreciate it if you didn't leave new york in the next few days. 
speaker2: come back anytime, gentlemen. you're always welcome here. we have no particular plans to leave new york in the near future, so don't worry about us now. 'bye now.
speaker3: christ, what a mess! they'll be on our tails around the clock! how the are we gonna get rid of the dope?! by the way, where is it?
speaker2: it's cool, don't worry, i got it stashed.
speaker3: where?
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: this way it's close at hand!
speaker3: are you out of your mind??
speaker2: relax, will you.
speaker2: i diapered the dope on her right in front of the cop and he never noticed a thing!
speaker3: i told the cops we were taking care of her. you realize we're now stuck with the kid till jack

speaker1: comes back. there ain't nobody coming to pick her up, and i have to go back to the office today! 
speaker2: wait a minute. you're not gonna stick me with this kid! tell them you need a maternity leave, tell them anything, but we've got to go 50-50 on this!
speaker3: and that's not all -- we haven't heard from the punks yet either!

speaker1: that's right, you heard right: i'm not coming in to work for two weeks... no, i can't explain why... ... because i can't, that's all!... no, this has nothing to do with chasing ass! jerry... jerry! will you stop screaming for a minute and listen? i'm in trouble, you understand? deep trouble... i know... i know... 
speaker1: ... goddammit, jerry, of course winning the competition is important to me! the firm's my whole life if you must know. no, no, please -- don't send anyone over here... don't you come either. no, jerry... okay, listen, i'll be there in a half-hour, but i can't stay long. no! don't come here! i'll be right over.

speaker1: i gotta go over to mr. oxman's -- he just called and he's freaking out. he says if i don't bring some cartoons over now, the deal's off. 
speaker2: you're going now?
speaker3: yeah, but don't worry about it, i'll be back before it's time for her next bottle. she's asleep now.
speaker2: terrific, just terrific! jerry just called: i have to go to the office right now.
speaker3: well, call him back. tell him you'll come later.
speaker2: there's no way. i can't, he's suicidal. why don't you call oxman and tell him you'll be there in a few hours.
speaker3: you're crazy. oxman is leaving in an hour. if i don't meet him before then, i blow my 15,000 dollar contract.
speaker2: oh i can't take this anymore!
speaker3: look, maybe we could her off on mrs. razzolini, just for a couple of hours -- she's crazy about her!
speaker2: good idea! let's go.

speaker1: wait -- i hear someone... i'll go see... 
speaker2: yes, i brought a package up to them... i think it was last sunday...
speaker3: what are these people like? what kind of lifestyle do they have?
speaker1: just as i thought -- the cops are grilling mrs. razzolini.
speaker4: oh we sure as can't hand her the baby with an full of dope... right in front of the narcs!
speaker4: what should we do? i really gotta go...
speaker1: listen, she's just had her bottle. she's sleeping like a log. let's just leave her in the apartment. what can possibly happen to her? she's as regular as clockwork. she won't wake up till 8:30 and we'll easily be back by then...
speaker4: yeah, you're right, we won't be long.

speaker1: morning, officers. can i help you? 
speaker2: search warrant.

speaker1: i believe you, officer. go ahead, we have nothing to hide. hello, mrs. razzolini! 
speaker2: you'll have to excuse the mess...
speaker3: oh, really? well, if i were you i'd get myself some new friends!
speaker4: what the are you guys looking for, anyway?
speaker3: probably the same things your friends were looking for last night! didn't mrs. razzolini bring you a package last sunday?
speaker4: you mean the chocolate easter bunnies? we ate them already.
speaker4: anyway, you have no idea how many packages we've been getting lately.
speaker3: maybe we can help. let's get to work!

speaker1: bed? 
speaker2: my pleasure. try not to make a mess. peter gets up, takes the basket off the bed and keeps it in his hands. the agent searches the bed.
speaker3: i'll look in the basket, if you don't mind...
speaker2: be my guest.
speaker3: thank you very much, sorry about this...
speaker4: well, there's obviously been a mistake. as far as you're concerned this investigation is closed. we apologize again.
speaker5: oh, don't mention it! it was a pleasure having you here! i hope you'll find what you're looking for very soon!
speaker4: so do we.
speaker5: did you hear that? he said there'd been a mistake and they weren't going to bother us anymore.

speaker1: bullshit, it's a trick. 
speaker2: you think so? really?
speaker1: they just said that to put us off guard. they saw the condition this apartment's in.
speaker1: they know the punks were here looking for the dope and that they probably didn't find it. so that means we've still got it.
speaker2: but he said the investigation was closed.
speaker1: okay, let's just see how closed it is. i'll go downstairs. you watch out the window and see if i'm being tailed.

speaker1: so? was i right? 
speaker2: there's one guy for sure! a redhead, kind of young, disguised sort of like a college student.
speaker1: i knew it. they're going to be watching us around the clock.

speaker1: how are we going to get the dope back to the punks? 
speaker2: i have the feeling they'll come to us.
speaker3: we'll have to be very careful.

speaker1: hi! doin' a little shopping, huh? how's your place -- not too much damage, i hope. 
speaker2: what do you guys want?
speaker1: we want the dope. tomorrow.
speaker2: and we want to give it to you. but the cops are tailing us nonstop. matter of fact, there's one right behind us now...
speaker1: that's your problem, man. figure out a way to shake 'em. either we safely get the dope tomorrow, or you, your friend and the kid'll get this. we'll call you tonight.

speaker1: hello? who? it, where are you?... ... it's jack. he just landed in newark. he came back early. 
speaker2: gimme that. jack? what the are you doing? yeah... yeah... oh yeah? well, listen very carefully, jack. that wonderful, fantastic babe you brought back from bolivia? the one you're gonna marry tomorrow? well, you're not going to bring her here!... you are going to say 'goodbye' to her very nicely and put her in a cab back to bolivia... why? because there's another wonderful, fantastic babe waiting for you right here at home ... who is she? oh, that's a surprise! you'll see when you get here. but believe me, she's

speaker1: out of this world. you're going to be up all night with this babe. 
speaker2: make it quick, the punks may be trying to call...
speaker3: so hurry home, jack, this little doll can't wait to see you. 'bye.
speaker3: that mother jerk of an asshole! i swear when he comes through the door i'll kill him! i'll...
speaker2: hello? listen, tomorrow, central park at the fountain near the merry-go-round, five o'clock. be there, but...
speaker2: ... that was it.
speaker3: all we can do now is hope our plan works.
speaker2: you think the cops have our phone bugged?
speaker3: i don't think that's legal, is it?

speaker1: yoo-hoo, guys! i'm home! i've got presents for you... so where's that wonderful fantastic babe... 
speaker1: ... what the happened here?
speaker1: peter! michael! are you here?
speaker1: oh, my my beautiful room! my beautiful, beautiful room! michael!... peter -- where the are you, for chrissakes?
speaker1: what the is going on around here? what happened to this place? what happened to my room? peter and michael look him right in the eye, still rocking the basket.
speaker1: and anyway, what the are you

speaker1: swinging that thing for? answer me for sake! oh my there's a kid in there! have you've gone bananas!? there's a kid in there! 
speaker2: oh, i get it. the 'silent' treatment! okay, if you won't talk to me, you can talk to my lawyer! this is grounds for divorce! you're in big trouble, the both of you.
speaker2: i paid to have this place decorated, too, you know. i'm not going to let you get away with this.
speaker2: it's too late to try and talk me out of it. i'm history. i'm gone. i'm outa here.
speaker2: i'm giving you one more chance to...
speaker3: would it be asking too much of you to shut your big mouth for a few seconds? there is a child here who's trying to sleep.
speaker2: and that's another thing! i will not have a baby in this house!

speaker1: all right, jack. why don't we start at the very beginning. the very day you left for your vacation... 
speaker2: hey, will you please stop talking like mr. rogers? it's getting on my nerves.
speaker3: his nerves! ha. ha. ha. his nerves! michael, his nerves! you wanna talk about nerves! then just shut up and listen. it so happens we don't want a kid here either, but when someone dumps one on us, we take care of it.
speaker1: yeah, we take goddam care of it.
speaker3: we haven't had a decent night's sleep in two weeks. michael's probably going to lose a $15,000 contract...
speaker1: peter couldn't leave. jerry almost jumped out the window. it's lucky they even made it to the finals!
speaker2: what?
speaker3: first, we've got the narcs on our ass, then there's the drug gang threatening to carve us up. then bottles... bottles... every three hours, bottles.
speaker1: and diapers. have you ever tried to do diapers?

speaker1: 'la paz, bolivia...' he calls from ... 'i'm onto something hot.' he says. 'did the package get there?' he says. you asshole! 
speaker2: and the day they wrecked the apartment, peter came home and couldn't find mary. i've never seen him in tears like that bef...
speaker1: never mind about that. look, jack, you got us into this mess, and you're going to help us get out of it.
speaker3: what are you guys talking about? what narcs? what gang? and who's that baby?
speaker1: for your information, the 'fucking' baby's name is mary. and if i were you, i'd watch what i said about her... because she just so happens to be your daughter!
speaker3: what??
speaker2: and it just so happens, we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, even if she's yours!

speaker1: it's ridiculous. i look ridiculous. 
speaker2: you look completely ridiculous -- so what?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: inspector graton, narcotics. do you admit you gave these men this package?
speaker1: sure. i gave it to them, just a moment ago.
speaker1: is it against the law to give a box of candy to my friends?
speaker2: oh, it's you guys!

speaker1: what's the problem? 
speaker2: you guys must think you're pretty smart, don't ya? holy the diaper!
speaker2: the goddam diaper! what a jerk, what a goddam schmuck i am!
speaker3: i think that guy needs a vacation.
speaker4: he should try south america.
speaker1: yeah, i hear it's nice there this time of year.

speaker1: let's face it... graton... you've got for brains. 
speaker2: i'm sure the dope was in the diaper. can i go on tailing them?
speaker1: forget it. i have solid information your three suspects never had anything to do with the dealers or the dope.
speaker2: i'm sure the dope was in the diaper.

speaker1: case closed. 
speaker2: i'm sure the dope was in the diaper.
speaker3: did you hear me, graton? case closed.
speaker2: i'm sure the d...

speaker1: hey, come back! -- how'm i gonna get out of here? 
speaker2: crawl.

speaker1: listen, sylvia, you've got to come back. i travel, i can't take care of her... yeah, but you're her mother... i'm her father -- what makes you so sure i'm the father!? the dates coincide! big deal! that doesn't prove a thing... but she's still your kid, so do me a favor, get your back here immediately and take her off our hands... 'cause we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, okay? sylvia?... hello! hello! 
speaker1: that hung up on me!
speaker2: why don't you call her back?
speaker1: i don't have the number. i got a message to her through her agency, they won't tell me where she is. i don't even know where she was calling from. and you better believe she's not going

speaker1: to call back! 
speaker2: hello?... no, it's michael... how are you?... oh, she's doing just fine, she's in great shape. we're taking very good care of her, you have nothing to worry about. 'bye.
speaker3: who was that?
speaker2: sylvia -- she wanted to know how mary was doing.
speaker3: what? christ, michael, why didn't you let me talk to her!?
speaker2: she would have just hung up on you again. the important thing is she knows mary's fine.
speaker3: you jerk! you should've said she was terrible, sick as hell! practically on death's door! what a jerk, what a pain in the you can be sometimes...
speaker2: what's with him? the kid's doing really great!

speaker1: ... yeah... a little girl, mary... 
speaker1: ... i'd love you to see her. in fact, i was gonna bring her down tomorrow... today?... great, i think there's a flight in three hours. i'll be at your place by two. see you real soon!

speaker1: you'll have four already made, this'll hold till miami. 
speaker2: okay...
speaker1: tell her to make sure mary gets plenty of sleep.
speaker2: i'll tell her.
speaker1: if her gets red, tell her not to listen to any pediatricians -- they're full of
speaker2: right. full of
speaker1: then she should give her a bottle of water instead of the regular bottle. works like a charm: her will be white as snow in three hours.
speaker2: bottle of water, white as snow...
speaker1: peter says her clothes should be washed by hand...

speaker1: really, by hand? 
speaker2: and only in soap flakes without any artificial color or scent. and then rinsed three times in very hot water.
speaker1: rinse three times.
speaker2: to put her to sleep we sing in harmony -- it always works.
speaker1: my mother lives alone.
speaker2: solo works just as well.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: now, as for the nipples, you've got to be very, very, very careful.
speaker2: as soon as the hole gets too big she's gotta throw them out -- this is extra, extra, extra-specially important -- 'cause if the hole's too big, the milk comes out too fast and it's bad for her digest...
speaker1: i gotta get going, i'll miss my plane...
speaker3: anyone home?

speaker1: i am! 
speaker2: how 'bout jack?
speaker1: on his way to miami.
speaker2: oh, yeah. he's got a lot of nerve! leaving us with the kid again...
speaker1: no, he took mary to his mother's, she couldn't wait to see her. he's gonna try to unload her on her till sylvia gets back. i made her four bott...
speaker2: you're kidding! that son-of-a-
speaker1: don't worry, i told him everything he had to know, and i made her four bott...
speaker2: oh, i'm telling you, that guy is really starting to get on my nerves!
speaker1: why?
speaker2: him! he really could have called me!
speaker1: are you off 'cause she's gone?
speaker2: of course not! what, are you crazy? i'm relieved! thank she's out of here!
speaker1: i made her four bott...

speaker1: that he could at least have told me. i can't believe this... that jackass... that jerk... there are such things as phones! 
speaker2: four bottles for the goddam trip.

speaker1: hey, mom! 
speaker2: hey, he finally made it!
speaker2: do you have any idea what time it is? it's four. you said two.
speaker1: but, mom, i missed the plane.
speaker2: yeah, but now i have to go.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: on a cruise around the world.
speaker1: but why didn't you say so on the phone?
speaker2: because you never would've come. now let me see her. oh, my little strudle!

speaker1: hey, margie. we're a little late... 
speaker2: bye-bye, sweetie love... i'll bring you back presents from all over the world. four o'clock.
speaker3: 'bye!

speaker1: you're bringing her back? 
speaker2: yeah... she's starving. i gotta heat this bottle up right away.
speaker1: so what happened? did you two have a fight?
speaker2: cruises...
speaker1: didn't she want to take her?
speaker2: sure she did, but she was just leaving for some stupid cruise around the world. the entire world! with some bimbo boyfriend of her's... and a bunch of retired bozos.

speaker1: the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: good afternoon. i'm mathilda bretsaws, from the second mommy agency.
speaker2: oh, yes, i was expecting you. won't you come in...
speaker4: who is it?
speaker5: must be some nanny he found through an agency. peter shrugs and walks away.
speaker2: she wants to see mary.
speaker5: she's asleep.
speaker2: well, she wants to see her anyway!

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: nothing, nothing.
speaker1: don't go into my room, she's asleep.
speaker2: yeah, but the nanny, mrs. bretsaws, she wants to see her.
speaker1: no, it, no! you're gonna wake her up! it already took me an hour to sing her to sleep...
speaker2: yeah, but she wants to see her.
speaker1: all right, i'll go explain the situation.
speaker2: no, no, peter, please, really, don't go, don't bother, i'll go explain it to her myself...
speaker1: it's no bother, jack. i'll be glad to do it.
speaker2: wanna bet she's out of here in ten minutes slamming the door behind her?

speaker1: i never said that i wanted the child to be awakened, sir. i only asked to see her. if i'm going to be taking care of the child on a round-the-clock basis, then... 
speaker2: 'round-the-clock'? whaddya mean 'round the clock'? are you intending to sleep here?
speaker1: absolutely, sir. a second mommy is a second mommy.
speaker2: and where are you going to sleep?
speaker1: well, i expect you to show me to my quarters.
speaker2: well, i don't know where jack intends to stick you... that's his problem... maybe in his room... but i'm warning you, mrs.
speaker1: bretsaws.
speaker2: there are three of us sharing this place and we're all real studs.

speaker1: oh, yeah? how do you figure that? 
speaker2: shouldn't i be discussing all this with the father?
speaker1: well, listen, mrs. fretsaw, umm...
speaker2: bretsaws, mrs. bretsaws.
speaker1: right... bratsnot, lemme tell you something. with a child you always know who the mother is, but the father -- that's another kettle of fish. so don't give me that bullshit, okay?
speaker2: very well. i won't discuss it any further with you. will you please show me where the kitchen and the bathroom are?
speaker1: what for?
speaker2: so i can make you a list of the things we need.
speaker1: what do you mean, make you a list? -- don't you do the shopping yourself?
speaker2: no shopping or laundry or housekeeping. i am a professional nanny.
speaker1: we have plenty of everything.
speaker2: do you have a sufficient amount of fruit and vegetables for the child?
speaker1: she only eats milk and cereal.

speaker1: that's not enough, sir. from the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet. 
speaker2: oh that's you don't feed a baby like an adult.
speaker1: oh, really? and how would you know?
speaker2: i've read plenty of books. the diet recommended by those quack pediatricians today is way too rich. i'm in favor of natural methods, mrs. breathmint.
speaker1: bretsaws, mrs. bretsaws.
speaker2: for instance, if a child is having trouble getting to sleep, what would you do?
speaker1: depends, if it was a continuing problem, i might recommend a mild sedative...
speaker2: i knew you'd say something like that, you jerk!
speaker3: fine. anything you say, sir. let me just remind you that i have my diploma and that medicine is a serious matter.
speaker2: do you know the song that goes 'medicine's a and the pharmacist is her pimp'?
speaker1: no, i don't. we must listen to different music. personally i'm very fond of opera.

speaker1: mrs. breakballs, if you don't get out of here right this minute i'm gonna punch you in the nose! 
speaker2: the name's bretsaws. i am blessed with infinite patience when it comes to children, sir, but i'm not qualified to deal with lunatics. goodbye and good luck!
speaker3: what did i tell you? ten minutes to the second!

speaker1: here we go. 
speaker2: look, her mother'll be back in less than five months. let's not waste a shitload of time looking for a solution for such a short time. let's get organized.
speaker3: what do you mean, organized?
speaker4: well, you'll have to ask to fly the new york-washington shuttle for five months, on account of serious personal problems.
speaker3: what? never! i'd rather be a subway conductor.
speaker4: then dump her in an orphanage, 'cause there's no way we're gonna take care of her all by ourselves anymore!
speaker2: come on, stop arguing, you two! jack, you're going to have to ask to do the new york-washington shu...
speaker3: no! never.
speaker2: that way, you can do the 6-10 a.m. shift. that amounts to two bottles and two diaper changes. you do the shopping when you get home in the evening and that's all. peter, you'll take the 6-10 p.m. shift. that's two bottles and two diaper changes, her bath and her laundry. since i work at home i'll take the longest shift from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. i'll take her to the park for an hour, but that's it. no shopping, no cooking, no cleaning.
speaker4: what if she gets up at night?

speaker1: whose shift is that? 
speaker2: well... i thought you might do it...
speaker3: not a chance! i'm not doing the night shift. i absolutely refuse. i have too much work to catch up on for the competition.
speaker4: well, needless to say i refuse, too!
speaker2: listen to me, you selfish bastards! my shift is eight hours in a row. no way i'm gonna do nights too. after 6 p.m. she can scream all she wants, i don't give a
speaker3: you know, jack, you're a real slime ball! we give you the easiest shift: the morning. she's always in great shape in the morning, isn't she? we've got to work like crazy to save our jobs and you have the nerve to refuse nights. goddamit, she's your daughter.
speaker4: hey, yourself! i don't give a i don't need you guys. i'll find some other way to do it. and i won't take the new york-washington shuttle!

speaker1: oh, hi... nah, nothing's wrong. 
speaker2: what were you doing in the boss's office?
speaker1: i was asking to do the new york- washington shuttle for a few months.
speaker2: oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
speaker1: as a matter of fact, he said 'yes.' paul backs up against the wall, protecting his face with his arms. jack leaves, disgusted. paul watches him go, totally confused.

speaker1: okay, i'm off. she's well fed and she's sleeping now. 
speaker1: she's crying. i'll go pick her up...

speaker1: let her cry, she's just trying to get to sleep, she'll stop in a couple of minutes. 
speaker2: no, she needs to burp -- i've gotta rock her for a little...
speaker3: i'm telling you, the more you pick her up, the longer it'll take her to get to sleep.
speaker2: thanks for the advice -- now why don't you just shove it? i know you let her scream for hours but i can't.
speaker3: i never let her scream for hours!
speaker2: you'd resort to any theory to not take care of her. just because you've read some books...
speaker3: can you believe what he just said to me... i read those books bec...
speaker2: it's not your shift, anyway.
speaker4: come on, guys, cool it! it's my shift now. i'll rock her for a few minutes... ... and then i'll put her right to bed. so off to work, both of you.

speaker1: coochie, coochie, coo... woo, woo, woo... bippity, boppity boo... 
speaker2: hi, michael, i just came back to get a file i forgot...
speaker2: everything okay?
speaker1: yeah, okay.
speaker2: well, i guess i'll be going now.
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: the baby okay?
speaker1: yeah, okay.

speaker1: she's crying... 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing, nothing. i'll be right back.

speaker1: mary cries again. 
speaker2: it' beddy-bye time now, honey, beddy-bye, don't cry, sweetheart...
speaker3: she's crying.
speaker2: yeah, every time i try to put her back to bed...
speaker4: maybe she's thirsty?
speaker3: no, her back teeth must be starting to bother her...
speaker2: what should i do?
speaker4: i've bought some stuff for her gums.
speaker3: try and put her back to bed; we'll sing.

speaker1: hey, choir boys, you gonna keep it up all night? peter and michael stare at her, scandalized. jack gestures wildly to her to shut up and go away. 
speaker1: oh my there's a baby in there! i'm sorry...
speaker2: who the hell's that broad?
speaker3: watch your mouth, will you? i'm in love with that young lady.
speaker2: can't she speak softly like everyone else?
speaker3: listen, at night i'm in charge.
speaker4: will you quit fighting all the time? she just fell asleep, for chrissake.
speaker3: oh, michael, go to hell! i'm sick and tired of your little 'father knows best' number!
speaker2: yeah, you're right, i'm fed up with it, too!
speaker4: okay, that's it. into the kitchen.

speaker1: i've had it with you assholes! i won't be the buffer between you two anymore... 
speaker2: i didn't ask you to get up, i know what i have to do.
speaker3: i don't mind getting up, that's not the point...
speaker1: i'm not a punching bag! you assholes!
speaker2: if i can't bring a girl back here anymore, just say so. and i'm gone.
speaker3: you can bring whoever you want as long as they speak softly like everyone else!
speaker1: one thing i know: i can't wait till sylvia gets back!
speaker3: yeah, you can say that again!
speaker2: and again, and again, and again...
speaker4: sorry to disturb you guys, but i'm splitting. i didn't come here to be a bedwarmer. 'bye.
speaker2: no! wait, please don't go... it's all over now, i'm coming back to bed...

speaker1: have you seen the latest bi-annual at the whitney? incredible! have you seen it, peter? 
speaker2: no, i haven't had the time lately.
speaker1: ah... working hard on the competition, are you? you may as well throw in the t-square, old friend, you haven't got a chance.
speaker3: i only wish he was working hard on the competition, but unfortunately, that's not the case...
speaker4: really? what's he doing then?
speaker1: maybe he's working hard on women! some people have to work really hard to get anything!

speaker1: heard crying. 
speaker2: why do you always have to bring carl along with you?
speaker3: don't you like him?
speaker2: oh, c'mon -- i love him! only, i'd like to see you alone for once, that's all.
speaker3: he's extremely talented -- in fact, i hate to tell you this, but i think he and his group are gonna win the competition.
speaker2: well, we'll see about that.
speaker4: did you give her something to drink?
speaker5: oh, cut it out! no more for me!
speaker6: i tried, but she doesn't want anything --
speaker5: i do so want some, but if i have anymore i'll pass out!
speaker2: save room for dessert -- it's a three-tiered cake from balducci's!

speaker1: oh! wow! 
speaker2: i love three-tiered cakes!
speaker3: so what's it made of?
speaker4: umm, it's made with whipped cream and loads of on top -- i mean, loads of... raspberries ... i'll be right back...
speaker5: are you saying that's not art? are you really saying that's not art?
speaker6: well, it's... art. i'll be right back.
speaker7: jack, tell me about those exotic places, what is caracas like?
speaker8: well, actually... uh, lately i've been to washington a lot... and uh... i'll be right back.

speaker1: try and put her back to bed... 
speaker2: i'm warning you, she'll scream...
speaker1: i'm sure she's cutting a tooth...

speaker1: yoo-hoo! what are you guys doing in there? it's boring without you... 
speaker2: oh -- the guests...
speaker3: you two go... i'm staying with her. it can't be worse than listening to carl.
speaker4: that's not fair -- let's take mary out there...
speaker2: and the with it.

speaker1: oh, it's a baby! 
speaker1: where the did that come from? wow! is it a boy or a girl? who does it belong to? so you've got a kid now? incredible! does that come from balducci's? no kidding, whose baby is that?
speaker2: ladies and gentlemen, i would like you to meet my daughter, mary.
speaker3: your daughter... your daughter...
speaker1: you're kidding! congratulations! she's adorable! she looks just like you... oh, what a cute little girl!

speaker1: don't cry, mary, don't cry... 
speaker2: there's too much noise.
speaker2: she's teething, that's why she's cranky. give her to me, i'll try and calm her down.
speaker3: how long have you had this kid?
speaker1: a few months...
speaker3: who's her mother, anyway?
speaker2: she's in europe, she'll be back in a few days.
speaker4: does she always cry like that?
speaker5: no, it's only because she's teething, she's usually very sweet...

speaker1: you'd never think something so small could make a noise so big. 
speaker2: what if you just put her back to bed?
speaker3: right -- she's just throwing a temper tantrum, put her to bed...
speaker4: we already tried...
speaker5: it's her teeth...
speaker3: do you have any kids?
speaker6: yeah, but they're grown up now, thank
speaker7: and do you have kids, too?
speaker8: what?
speaker7: i said... and do you have kids, too?
speaker8: no, we both have careers.
speaker9: so, do you think we'll get to taste that three-tiered cake tonight?
speaker4: what?
speaker9: oh, nothing, nothing -- i was just trying to liven up the

speaker1: conversation... 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: gosh, my ears are ringing, i can't hear anybody.
speaker4: i must say, a crying kid is kind of hard to take...
speaker2: what?
speaker5: we were just saying that this baby's conversation is actually rather limited... and a touch annoying. don't you think?
speaker2: well, she's not the only one with a limited conversation. at least she has an excuse, she's a baby! what's yours?
speaker5: i frankly don't know what you mean.
speaker2: i mean, i've been listening to your pompous drivel about the latest trends for the last two hours, and frankly, it's a crock of horseshit.
speaker6: come on, peter, be nice...
speaker7: listen, go put the baby to bed and you guys cool it, will you?
speaker5: it's okay. i'm used to it.
speaker2: you get out of here! get out of my house right now or i'll kick the out

speaker1: of you! you snobbish scum- sucking snake! 
speaker2: peter, cut it out!
speaker3: stop it, peter. give her to me, i'll put her to bed...
speaker4: no, i'll go. and you can all go yourselves! go back to your asinine conversations!
speaker5: well... umm... how 'bout if i get the cake now, okay?
speaker6: well. it seems our beloved hosts are going to be busy playing mother for a while, so if you'll excuse me, i'll just slip away... ... natalie, may i invite you to spend the rest of the evening in a more hospitable place?
speaker7: gladly. goodbye.
speaker8: is he out of his mind or what?
speaker2: he was absolutely obnoxious.
speaker9: hey, caroline, i think we should

speaker1: go, too. i don't feel so good... 
speaker2: oh, no! hold it back!
speaker3: i wanna go home...
speaker2: okay, we're going... sorry... say goodbye to jack for us...
speaker4: look, there's no point in our staying any longer. i think it's best we leave.
speaker5: tell peter if was a wonderful party.
speaker6: okay... 'bye...
speaker7: can you drop me off near soho by any chance?
speaker4: sure.
speaker7: thanks! 'bye... say goodbye to them for me...
speaker8: well, we might as well go, too. i think the evening's over.

speaker1: ta-da! will you look at this? is this a cake or what? can someone make a little room on the table so i can... are you guys leaving? 
speaker2: yeah, we're beat.
speaker1: hey, where is everybody?
speaker3: well, the atmosphere wasn't exactly festive...
speaker2: sorry about the cake, mike...
speaker1: oh, never mind, don't worry... good night...
speaker4: well, she's asleep at last! we sang in har... hey, where is everybody?
speaker1: gone. can you make a little room for me on the table to put the...
speaker4: you mean they're all gone?
speaker1: yeah, all of 'em, hey, can you make a little room for me to...
speaker4: peter! peter, goddamit, get out here!
speaker4: they're all gone!

speaker1: who gives a they're all jerks anyway. 
speaker2: hey, could you make a little room for me on the table so i can...
speaker3: it's because of the kid. they can't stand kids.
speaker1: i can't stand kids either but that's not a reason to leave! dipshits, they're all a bunch of dipshits, every one of 'em.
speaker2: oh, it -- i'm sitting down.
speaker3: and did you hear natalie: 'she's throwing a temper tantrum, just put her to bed.' what a pain-in- the-ass that broad is!
speaker1: hey, you're the pain-in-the-ass! first you dump a baby on us, then you scare everyone away from the party, then...
speaker3: i scared everyone aw... just cut the crap, will you? my whole life is diapers, shuttles and bottles. i do the graveyard shift, i'm the one who never gets any sleep. i...
speaker1: listen, we all have two full-time jobs! that's for sure!
speaker2: and what about me? i'm a prisoner in this house all day long, forget about chasing ass, i haven't gotten laid in six months. when the is your friggin' sylvia gonna come back?

speaker1: she's been gone for six months and four days. 
speaker2: if she's not back by the end of next week, i'm kicking her kid out!
speaker3: you better give your goddam sylvia for this!
speaker1: don't worry, she's gonna get it but good!
speaker2: and you can tell her we have a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, it!
speaker3: do you guys want some cake? guys?

speaker1: hello... i'm sylvia, mary's mother. i've come to get her... 
speaker2: oh, it's you... wait, i'll go

speaker1: get jack... 
speaker2: how's mary doing?
speaker3: fine, fine, she's doing great... she's getting her back teeth in lately, it's been a bit rough...
speaker2: can i see her?
speaker3: oh, yeah, sure, she's in there...
speaker2: i don't believe how much she's grown!
speaker2: hello, mary, hello my darling...
speaker2: how beautiful she is... her hair has grown... look how much she changed, i missed it all. i missed her so much!
speaker2: i wanted to make life difficult for jack but i never thought i'd miss her so much...
speaker3: oh, yeah... make life difficult for jack...

speaker1: is he here? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: is jack here?
speaker2: michael, michael... sylvia's here.
speaker2: mary's leaving.

speaker1: let's see, the five bottles, the little bottles for water, the strainer for her cereal... ... do you have a blender? 
speaker2: a blender?
speaker1: for bananas and carrots and stuff. it's time for her to start eating them...
speaker2: no, i don't have a blender.

speaker1: okay, you can have ours. he stuffs the blender into the bag. 
speaker2: do you want me to take her?
speaker3: no, i have to burp her first.
speaker2: here are the bibs. jack told me to give them...
speaker4: thanks... i put the woolen things on the bottom and the diapers and lighter things on top, because you'll need those first...
speaker2: yeah, sure...

speaker1: you'll have to come back and get the crib later. 
speaker2: yeah...

speaker1: give me the playpen first... 
speaker2: then where are you gonna put the tub?
speaker1: just give me the playpen.
speaker3: need some help?
speaker1: no, no thanks... i'd rather do it myself...
speaker4: you really screwed us over but good -- you know that...
speaker5: i know, i'm sorry.
speaker4: really. our lives have been out of control for the past six months.

speaker1: yeah, i bet... actually, that was kind of the point... but i'm the one who really got screwed... 
speaker2: don't cry, c'mon... you're taking her back now, it's great...
speaker1: yeah, it's great...
speaker2: d'you have enough money? can you manage all right?
speaker1: yeah, sure... i'm not loaded, but it's okay -- i'm working, i've got modeling jobs lined up...
speaker2: do you have a boyfriend?
speaker1: no. that's the last thing i need. i've got my work. and now i've got her. she rubs noses with mary.
speaker3: that's it, we fit it all in...
speaker2: okay, then... well, 'bye...
speaker4: 'bye, mary!
speaker1: okay, well, thanks again -- 'bye!

speaker1: 'bye! 
speaker2: well, that's that!
speaker3: yeah...
speaker4: right... that's that.
speaker4: oh -- i forgot to explain about the cereal!
speaker2: she'll figure it out by herself...
speaker3: yeah, she'll manage...
speaker2: now it's back to the good life for us!
speaker3: sleeping late! different women every night! i can't wait!
speaker2: forget about the new york-washington shuttle! i'm off to caracas!
speaker4: and i'm gonna be able to get back to work, so carl better watch it -- i'm gonna slaughter that first with this goddam competition... and then with natalie.
speaker3: and i've got six months' worth of to catch up on with cathy, nora, frances, susan, barbra...
speaker3: ...christie, paula, sheila, lisa, kimberly, rhonda, rebecca, louisa...

speaker1: but not necessarily in that order! 
speaker2: oh, she forgot her squeaky giraffe.

speaker1: these are for you... i'm not supposed to leave the office. 
speaker1: they think i'm in the bathroom. so i can't stay. 'bye.

speaker1: love at first sight. 
speaker2: peter? yeah? what? yow-ee! hooray! terrific! that's fantastic! i'll call jack -- we're gonna celebrate tonight!
speaker2: they won! they won!
speaker3: who won?
speaker2: peter. he won the competition!
speaker3: great! who's peter?

speaker1: here you are, my angel... are you okay, honey? mommy's finished now, you've been a very, very good girl. thanks a lot for looking after her. 
speaker2: oh, she's been great!

speaker1: hey, what's the matter with you? 
speaker2: whadda you mean, what's the matter with me?
speaker1: are you sick?
speaker2: me? no. i'm fine.
speaker1: c'mon, jack! didn't you see who we've got on board today?
speaker2: sure i did, why?
speaker1: well... look...
speaker2: so it's the rockettes, so what?
speaker1: and you're just sitting there like that?
speaker2: whaddaya mean, sitting there? i happen to be getting ready to fly this airplane.
speaker1: okay, forget it.

speaker1: hi... 
speaker2: hi?
speaker1: don't you recognize me?
speaker2: wait... uh, no...
speaker1: i'm the one who was tailing you...
speaker2: oh, yeah, the park... the diaper and all...
speaker1: that's it, the diaper... but don't worry. this isn't an investigation, i left the force four months ago, and anyway, they've arrested the whole gang since then... i just wanted to ask you something...
speaker2: have you noticed? i'm pregnant.
speaker1: oh yeah, i see...
speaker2: so, shall we go for a walk?

speaker1: there's something i have to know... 
speaker2: wouldn't you like to be pregnant?
speaker1: what? oh sure... maybe... no... i dunno... look, there's been something bothering me for a long time.
speaker2: you see, if i was and i could create the world all over again, here's what i would do: i would create adam from eve's rib, not the other way around.
speaker1: really?
speaker1: that's an interesting idea... actually, i just wanted to ask you...
speaker2: at least that way things would have been clearer to begin with, y'see. they wouldn't have made us believe that somebody could come out of our rib, y'know? 'cause nothing ever comes out of our rib, y'know? ever. only out of our prick, and even then ... everything still has to be done after that.
speaker1: that's for sure...
speaker2: what we men know how to make is planes, buildings, cars, and all that stuff... it's useful, mind

speaker1: you... 
speaker2: it's driving me crazy! this thing keeps going around and around in my head...
speaker3: and you know what, it's not even like they wanted us to believe it -- it might have been us who wanted to believe it... but let's face it, nobody comes out of our rib...
speaker2: was the dope in the diaper, yes or no?
speaker3: still, that's hard to take, goddam it!
speaker2: was it in the diaper, or not?
speaker3: the dope? it was in the diaper, why?
speaker2: oh, thanks a lot. i feel so much better now. here, this is a rabbit for your baby. thanks again, 'bye, i'm so happy.
speaker3: but wait -- the baby's gone...

speaker1: face. 
speaker2: tomorrow, san francisco!
speaker3: say hello to the pacific for me.
speaker2: i'll be back the day after tomorrow.
speaker4: you'll be id a foul bood -- jet lag really wipes out you dow.
speaker2: whaddya mean, now?
speaker4: yeah: you didd't used to give a before, but dow it docks you out.
speaker2: before what?
speaker4: how would i dow? 'before,' that's all.
speaker2: it doesn't knock me out at all...
speaker3: is there any jam left?
speaker4: do.
speaker4: you eatig here todight?

speaker1: no, i'm going to the movies tonight with, uh... damn, i can't remember her name... 
speaker2: y'mean the japanese one?
speaker3: no, she's from finland. oh it. what the hell's her name? they've got such weird names... magdalena... no, marianna... no ... oh, i can't remember -- anyway it's ma-something or other...
speaker2: mary?
speaker4: this fuckig cold! i look like i'b cryig all the tibe but i'b dot -- it's just this dab cold.

speaker1: hi. is sylvia in? 
speaker2: no, she'll be back in a couple of hours -- around midnight, she said...
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: wanna come in and wait for her?
speaker1: sure... why not?

speaker1: sylvia doing okay? 
speaker2: i don't know -- i'm a med student. i'm just babysitting. i only met her a couple hours ago.
speaker1: oh, i see...
speaker1: listen, on second thought, i don't think i'll wait for her. just give her this when she gets back, okay? and this is for the baby.
speaker2: sure, no problem. he immerses himself again in his books.
speaker1: shouldn't the baby be in bed by now?
speaker2: yeah... i don't know... when i put her to bed she cries so i just let her stay up...
speaker1: don't you have any tights to put on her legs?
speaker2: tights?... well, it's pretty hot in here anyway...

speaker1: you want me to call them? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: but you've got to let them know!
speaker2: no, i'm not going anywhere anymore, i've had it with traveling. i quit.
speaker1: c'mon, i'll call you a cab, you've still got time.
speaker2: don't you call anybody.
speaker1: but the plane's s'posed to take off in half an hour -- they won't have time to replace you. this is serious -- you'll lose your job and you won't be able to pay your share of the apartment anymore... you...
speaker2: i'll be a dishwasher, i'll live in a flophouse.
speaker1: what the happened?
speaker2: i'm not going, i told you; i'm not going ever again. i'm sick and tired of traveling, sick and tired of broads. they all have the same and i can't seem to love them anyway. i can't take another hotel room, and swimming pools and trendy restaurants! i want to know

speaker1: come on, i made us a good dinner. i bought some filet mignon and haagen-dazs butter pecan. when peter comes back he'll cheer you up... 
speaker2: he's been here all day.
speaker1: he has? i didn't hear him...
speaker2: he's in his room.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: peter! dinner's ready!

speaker1: sylvia is a disheveled mess. 
speaker2: is jack here? 'cause i'm a mess.
speaker3: jack! jack, c'mere for chrissake!
speaker2: 'cause my place is tiny, y'know, and my schedule's insane -- and i just finished four days of posing and we ended up every day at...
speaker2: yeah, y'see, jack, i just did four days of posing...
speaker4: yeah...
speaker2: and every day we finished at three in the morning and since mary always gets up around 5:30...
speaker4: yeah...
speaker2: well, you can imagine how much sleep i've gotten...
speaker4: yeah, of course, 'cause after the 5:30 bottle it starts all over again around nine...
speaker2: and by the time i change her and play with her a little, it's already eight o'clock...
speaker4: and then that's it -- you get only an hour of sleep.
speaker2: and the babysitters till three a.m. -- all my money is sucked

speaker1: down the tubes! 
speaker2: plus they don't put the kids to bed, they let them lie around half-naked...
speaker3: oh, so the flowers and the rabbit were from you...
speaker2: i could have strangled that guy...
speaker3: i mean it, i can't cope anymore. my parents and i don't talk to each other and anyway they live in texas, and the baby needs to get out to the park...
speaker4: yeah, tell me about it! finding time to take her to the park every day is a real
speaker3: and i have to work, i need the money to survive and anyway i love my job...
speaker3: but to work i've gotta have a babysitter, and to have a babysitter i need to work, so i run around all day... ... and i'm not sure i'm taking good care of her...
speaker5: of course you're taking good care of her -- we know what it's like, don't cry, she looks great...
speaker3: it's just 'cause i haven't slept in four nights -- she must be teething or something, i don't know but i can't manage...
speaker5: don't worry, it's nothing, she's

speaker1: cutting a tooth -- you just have to put some stuff on her gums... 
speaker2: she pulled the same thing on us. we lost all our friends in one night -- on account of one tooth!
speaker3: and just look at my face! nobody's going to want me to model for them with the way my face looks... and what'll happen to me if they don't want me anymore?
speaker2: but you're beautiful -- at your age all you need is a good night's sleep and you'll look like new.
speaker3: right, a good night's sleep -- but when?
speaker4: well, why don't you leave the baby with us for a few days, till you recuperate... i mean, if you want.
speaker2: we're old pros -- it's not a big deal for us...
speaker3: really? i can leave her with you for a little while?
speaker5: of course. leave her with us. come back whenever you want. get some rest.
speaker3: i brought a couple of things for her, just for a few days...

speaker1: is she hungry? 
speaker2: yeah, it's time for her bottle -- it's all ready in the bag...
speaker3: i'll go heat up some water right away. would you like a cup of coffee?
speaker2: oh, okay, thanks...
speaker4: i'll go make up her bed!
speaker4: hey, you guys -- come and see, come and see!
speaker5: what?
speaker4: come see, i said.
speaker4: the poor thing, she's really wiped out.

speaker1: she'll need two or three months to recover, at least... maybe more! 
speaker2: we could set up a room for her here...
speaker3: a room for her and a room for mary...
speaker1: then we could have four shifts instead of three!
speaker2: yeah, but i don't think she'll agree. she's got her own life to live.
speaker3: yeah, she probably wouldn't want to move here. she'd think we'd jump on her any chance we could...
speaker1: but we'd make a rule, she'd just be 'one of the guys!'
speaker3: she'll never want to...
speaker4: so, i'll take the ten a.m. to three p.m. shift... and i'll take every other night... plus the walk in the park in the afternoon before i go to work... and we split the rent equally... and i'll just be 'one of the guys'... deal?
speaker5: deal.

