speaker1: eddie, my dove just flew out the window! 
speaker2: she goes on in two minutes! what are we gonna do??
speaker3: dolores, give me your shoes.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: the ghost can be barefoot.
speaker4: the soldiers suddenly look up.
speaker5: hey, i think i see something!
speaker1: i offer you mortals the bird of peace, so that you may change your ways and end all this destruction.

speaker1: what a show! everyone was terrific! paul, your second-act monologue actually gave me chills, 
speaker2: aw thanks, eddie.
speaker3: i got the early edition! it was just dropped off at the newsstand.
speaker1: this is the big moment...! ed opens the paper to the entertainment page.

speaker1: what does that old queen know? he wasn't even there! sending a copy boy to do his dirty work. well 
speaker2: what does "ostentatious" mean?
speaker3: hey. hey, it's not that bad. you just can't concentrate on the negative. he's got some nice things to say... see, "the soldier costumes are very realistic." that's positive!
speaker3: hell, i've seen a lot worse reviews. i've seen ones where they didn't even like the costumes! like, that last "francis the mule" picture -- it got
speaker3: so don't take it too seriously.
speaker4: you really think so?
speaker3: absolutely! it's just the beginning. i promise this: if we stick together, one day i'll make every single one of you famous.

speaker1: honey, what if i'm wrong? what if i just don't have it? 
speaker2: ed, it was only one review.
speaker1: orson welles was 26 when he made "citizen kane." i'm already 30!
speaker2: ed, you're still young. this is the part of your life when you're
speaker2: things'll change for us. nobody stays on the fringe forever.
speaker2: where's my pink sweater? i can never find my clothes anymore...
speaker3: he rolls over in bed, away from her.

speaker1: hey big shot, get off your ass. they need a potted palm over in the carl laemmle building. 
speaker2: sure thing, mr. kravitz.

speaker1: whoa, look at all this sand. this is real sand! my where'd they get all this sand?! 
speaker2: hey, you. this is a closed set.

speaker1: this is fantastic! what are you gonna do with it all? 
speaker2: eh, probably file it away and never see it again.
speaker1: it's such a
speaker1: no, i'm saving that for the big underwater climax!

speaker1: they say he was a girl trapped in a man's body. 
speaker2: i'll bet it hurt when they snipped his thing off.
speaker3: what are you ladies gabbin' about?
speaker1: you know that christine jorgensen freak? he/she/it's in "variety." some producer is making a biopic.
speaker3: r-really? i didn't see the story.
speaker1: ah, it was buried in the back. the guy's a real smallã³time operator.

speaker1: yes, i'm ed wood. i'm here about directing the christine jorgensen picture. 
speaker2: yeah, well a couple of things have changed. it ain't gonna be the christine jorgensen story no more. "variety" printed the story before i had the rights, and now that is asking for the sky.
speaker1: so you're not gonna make the movie?
speaker2: no, of course i'm gonna make the movie! i've already preã³sold alabama and oklahoma. those repressed okies really go for that twisted pervert stuff. so we'll just make it without that she-male. we'll fictitionalize it. georgie bites into his sandwich. ed is dazed.
speaker1: is there a script?
speaker2: no! but there's a poster.

speaker1: it opens in nine weeks in tulsa. 
speaker2: well, mr. weiss, i'm your guy. i work fast, and i'm a deal: i write and direct. and i'm good. i just did a play in hollywood, and victor crowley praised its realism.
speaker1: hmm. there's five-hundred guys in town who can tell me the same thing. you said on the phone you had some kind of "special qualifications."
speaker2: well, mr. weiss, i've never told anyone what i'm about to tell you... but i really want this job. i like to dress in women's clothing.
speaker1: are you a fruit?
speaker2: no, no, not at all! i
speaker2: nah, i'm all man. i even fought in
speaker3: 'course, i
speaker2: confidentially, i even paratrooped wearing a brassiere and panties. i'll tell ya, i wasn't scared of being killed, but i was
speaker2: yeah. i know what it's like to live with a secret, and worry about what people are gonna think of you... my girlfriend still doesn't know why her sweaters are always stretched out.
speaker1: ed, you seem like a nice kid, but look around you... i don't hire directors with burning desires to tell their stories. i make movies like "chained girls." i need someone with experience who can shoot a film in four days that'll make me a profit. i'm sorry. that's all that matters.

speaker1: too constrictive. this is the most uncomfortable coffin i have ever been in. 
speaker2: gee, mr. lugosi, i've never had any complaints before.
speaker1: the selection is quite shoddy. you are wasting my time.
speaker3: excuse me, mr. lugosi??
speaker1: i told you, i don't want any of your coffins.
speaker3: no. i don't work here.
speaker1: huh?
speaker1: who are you? what do you want?
speaker3: i don't want anything. i'm just a really big, big fan. i've seen all your movies.
speaker1: ha!
speaker3: why were you buying a coffin?
speaker1: because i'm planning on dying soon.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: yes. i'm embarking on another bus- andã³truck tour of "dracula." twelve cities in ten days, if that's conceivable.
speaker3: you know, i saw you perform "dracula." in poughkeepsie, in 1938.
speaker1: eh, that was a terrible production.
speaker3: i thought it was great. you were much scarier in real life than you were in the movie.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: i waited to get your autograph, but you never came outside.
speaker1: i apologize. when i play dracula, i put myself into a trance. it takes me much time to re-emerge.
speaker1: oh, there's my bus. where's my transfer?!
speaker3: don't you bave a car?
speaker1: i refuse to drive in this country. too many madmen.

speaker1: boy, mr. lugosi, you must lead such an exciting life. when is your next picture coming out? 
speaker2: i have no next picture.
speaker1: ah, you gotta be jokin'! a great man like you... i'll bet you have dozens of 'em lined up.
speaker2: back in the old days, yes. but now -- no one give two for bela.
speaker1: but you're a big star!
speaker2: no more. i haven't worked in four years. this town, it chews you up, then spits you out. i'm just an ex-bogeyman. make a right.

speaker1: they don't want the classic horror films anymore. today, it's all giant bugs, giant spiders, giant grasshoppers -- who would believe such nonsense! 
speaker2: the old ones were much spookier.
speaker1: they were
speaker2: i never thought of that.
speaker1: take my word for it. you want to "score" with a young lady, you take her to see "dracula."
speaker1: ugh, what a mess. my wife of twenty years left me last month. i'm not much of a housekeeper.
speaker1: shh! i'm coming! i will feed you!
speaker2: well... i guess i should go. perhaps we could get together again?
speaker1: certainly. but now the children of the night are calling me.

speaker1: sweetie, you won't believe it! i've got the most incredible news! 
speaker2: you got the job?!!
speaker1: huh?! oh, uh, no, i didn't get the job.
speaker1: yeah! i met a movie star! somebody
speaker1: no! a horror movie star!
speaker2: boris karloff!?
speaker1: close! the
speaker1: oh, the with you. i met bela

speaker1: i thought he was dead. 
speaker2: no! he's very alive. well... sort of. he's old, and frail -- but he's still bela lugosi! and he's really nice.
speaker1: boy, i can't even remember the last time he was in a picture.
speaker2: it's a shame. he's such a rest actor, and nobody uses him anymore.
speaker1: so did you get his autograph?
speaker2: no. it wasn't like that at all. it was just the two of us, and we were talkin'... and he treated me like -- a friend...

speaker1: he's a 
speaker1: yeah? well now he's a junkie. he don't deserve to work.
speaker2: that's not true --
speaker1: he's so great,

speaker1: ugh! i hate the way she interrupts the pictures. she doesn't show 'em the proper respect. 
speaker2: vampira! you will come under my spell! you will be my slave of love.
speaker1: hey bela, how do you do that?
speaker2: you must be double-jointed, and you must be hungarian. vampira, look at me! stare into my eyes.
speaker2: i am getting tired. i need to take my medicine.
speaker1: do you want me to get it for you?
speaker2: no thank you, eddie. i'll be alright.

speaker1: ehh, you're not a real vampire. you can't turn into a bat, and those teeth don't frighten me. 
speaker2: well how about
speaker2: dentures. i lost my pearlies in the war.

speaker1: are you sure this is okay? 
speaker2: don't worry. i do it every halloween.

speaker1: now what? 
speaker2: i am dracula! bela darts happily through the graves.
speaker2: i am the bat!!
speaker2: i am dracula! i will live forever!!!

speaker1: so what's the big news you couldn't tell me over the phone... again? 
speaker2: mr. weiss, i was thinkin' about what you said, about how all your movies have to make a profit. and i realized, what's the one thing, that if you put in a movie, it'll be successful??
speaker1: 
speaker2: no. better than -- a
speaker2: yeah, but if you took that and put a star in it, you'd have something!
speaker1: yeah. with a star.
speaker2: no! it would be something better!
speaker2: what if i told you you could have a star for $1000??
speaker1: who?
speaker1: lugosi?
speaker2: yeah!
speaker2: no, he's not dead! he lives in baldwin hills. i met him recently, and he wants to be in our picture.
speaker1: our picture?
speaker2: uh, yeah. our picture.
speaker1: why would lugosi want to be in a sex-change flick?
speaker2: because he's

speaker1: you know these people. i need all the transsexuals and transvestites you can get. no, i don't care if they're not actors. i want realism. i want this film to tell the 
speaker1: yeah, it's gonna be a great picture! you'll love your character! bunny, bela's here. look, hit the bars, work some parties, and get me transvestites!
speaker1: well, it's about how people have two personalities. the side they show to the world, and then the secret person they hide inside.
speaker2: oh, like jekyll and hyde! ah, i've always wanted to play jekyll and hyde! i'm looking forward to this production.
speaker1: ehh, your part's a little different. you're like the that looks down on all the characters, and oversees everything.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: well... you control everyone's fate.
speaker2: ah, so i pull the strings!
speaker1: yeah. you pull the strings -- "pull the strings"... hey, that's pretty good!

speaker1: so 
speaker2: ed silently nods.

speaker1: how long have you been doing this? 
speaker2: since i was a kid. my mom wanted a girl, so she used to dress me in girlie clothing. it just kinda became a habit.
speaker1: christ! and you never told me?
speaker2: this is my way of telling you --
speaker1: what, by putting it in a script, for everyone to see?! what kind of sick mind would operate like that?
speaker1: and what about this so-called "barbara" character? it's obviously me! i'm so embarrassed! this is
speaker1: oh! you got nerve, buddy.
speaker1: he calmly points at the script.

speaker1: oh, just like in the script! 
speaker2: exactly. so what do ya say? do you wanna break up... or do you wanna do the movie with me?

speaker1: it's good to have a job. now i can get my phone reconnected. 
speaker2: i thought this was gonna be a sex- change film!
speaker3: there's still a sex-change --
speaker2: yeah! five pages right before it ends! the rest of the show is about some schmuck who likes angora sweaters.
speaker3: i don't think he's a schmuck.
speaker2: and what's with this new title?! my poster says "i changed my sex"!
speaker3: so change the poster. trust me, you'll be better off. this is a story that's gonna

speaker1: excuse me, could i have everyone's attention?! could you gather around? i've got something to say. 
speaker1: everybody, we're about to embark on quite a journey. four days of hard work... but when it's over, we'll have a picture that'll entertain, enlighten, and maybe even move millions of people.
speaker1: now the only way we're gonna achieve all this is if we stay on schedule. day one -- today -- we'll start easy. we have eighteen silent scenes that can be shot quickly: cars parking, patrick's suicide, me strolling as a man, me strolling as a woman, etc. after lunch, we'll bring in the inspector and the doctor. the doctor is very important to the plot, so we might have to spend time on retakes. but it's worth it. scene totals for the first day is thirty-four. day two, we'll be a little busier --
speaker2: excuse me eddie, i don't mean to interrupt... but i'm gettin' a little worried about those clouds.

speaker1: okay, do i need any touch-up? 
speaker2: i'm telling ya, eyelashes are the way to go.
speaker1: harry, we've discussed this a million times. i don't want to look like a girl. i want to look like myself.
speaker3: fine. then you look

speaker1: and -- action! 
speaker2: don't you want a second take, for protection?
speaker3: what's to protect? it was perfect!
speaker4: cops!
speaker3: we don't have a permit. run!

speaker1: the set doesn't look right! it looks too... empty. clutter it up. put a skeleton in the corner. and what's that thing over there? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: well it looks good. let's use it!
speaker3: ed! what's with these revised pages?! a scene in a smelting factory? a buffalo stampede??

speaker1: mr. lugosi has arrived! 
speaker2: oh my mr. lugosi is here! now everyone, when he walks on the stage now everyone, when he walks on the stage, treat him normal. i know bela lugosi is a world-famous star, and you're all a little excited, but we're professionals. so if you treat him with respect, everything will be alright.

speaker1: bela! it's so great to see you! and eight o'clock on the dot. right on time! 
speaker2: i am always on time.
speaker1: of course! well, we got a big day planned for you... first, we're gonna start off a little easy, with you in that armchair over there. then, once you're up to speed and cooking, we'll reset and bring out the laboratory equipment --
speaker2: uh, eddie, do you have my money?
speaker1: huh?! oh yeah, of course.

speaker1: mr. lugosi, i know you're very busy, but could i have your autograph? 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: you know which movie of yours i love, mr. lugosi? "the invisible ray." you were great as karloff's sidekick.
speaker2: "sidekick"?? "karloff"?!!
speaker2: you!! karloff doesn't deserve to smell my that limey can rot in hell, for all i care!!!
speaker3: ed panickedly runs up.
speaker4: what happened?! connie, what did you do?
speaker1: nothin'! i told him he was great.
speaker2: how dare that bring up karloff?!! you think it takes talent to play frankenstein?! no! it's just make-up and grunting! grrr!

speaker1: you're right, bela. now dracula, 
speaker2: i am ready now! roll the camera!!
speaker1: um, okay... roll camera
speaker3: rolling.
speaker1: sound!
speaker4: speed.
speaker5: mark. scene thirty-one.
speaker1: and... action?

speaker1: how can you just walk around like that, in front of all these people? 
speaker2: hon', nobody's bothered but you. look around -- they couldn't care less.
speaker1: ed, this isn't the real world!

speaker1: say it a little louder. i don't think bela heard you in his trailer. 
speaker1: dolores. i need your help...

speaker1: and we fade out. "the end." what do you think? 
speaker2: i think it's fifty-seven minutes long.
speaker1: yeah? whatever. so did you like it?
speaker2: ed, what was the one thing i asked you to do? make it
speaker2: they'll notice. look, why don't you let me take over from here? i can do a few tricks: pad it out with more stock footage, add establishing shots...
speaker1: um, i guess --
speaker2: good. and one more thing. i think your "written, directed, and starring ed wood" credit is a bad idea.
speaker1: why?! i did all those things! hell, i even built the props.
speaker2: and you did a bang-up job, too. but you don't want other producers to know that's you in drag. trust me. it's a career killer.
speaker1: but i'm proud. i wrote, directed, and starred in it just like orson welles in "citizen kane"!
speaker2: yeah?? well orson welles didn't wear angora sweaters, did he??!

speaker1: daniel 
speaker2: some weirdo who likes to wear dresses.

speaker1: i didn't shoot that! 
speaker2: georgie, what's with the stag footage?? you said you were cutting in

speaker1: wasn't i something..? did you see how i command the screen?! 
speaker2: ed, it was superb.
speaker3: a great show! a little strange...
speaker4: just like i always promised. now you're among the immortals. you're movie stars.
speaker5: here's to ed. for making us into something. it's a warm moment. they all clink their glasses.

speaker1: from today on, our lives are different! we'll be swimming laps in the same pool jean harlow did. 
speaker2: i don't know. it's so much money...
speaker1: who cares?! we're on a roll! these are the moments in life you're supposed to grab.
speaker2: but ed, we're not even married. and you don't have a job.
speaker1: but
speaker2: toss us out on our ass.
speaker1: exactly.

speaker1: how 'bout a western? people love westerns. 
speaker2: but, i don't like horses. do i have to get on one?
speaker1: eh, forget it. what else is big? teenagers! pics! yeah... you got the juvenile delinquent, his girlfriend from the wrong side of the tracks --
speaker2: who do i play?
speaker1: uh, a cop. no! you play the father.
speaker1: sure. romance, that's great! to engineer your comeback, we're gonna need a whole slate of pictures. once "glen or glenda" takes off, we'll slam you into one, then another, then another!
speaker2: that's good. i could use the money.
speaker1: but we need to start off with a bang!
speaker1: of course!
speaker2: those at universal. i made so much money for them, and now i can't get the time of day.
speaker1: so let's make another "dracula." let's make "the return of dracula"!
speaker2: we can't. those sons-a-bitches control the rights.
speaker1: they do? shoot. there
speaker2: dracula?
speaker1: no!

speaker1: excuse me, i'm here to see mr. feldman. 
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker1: edward d. wood, junior.
speaker2: oh. eh, he's in the executive building. you can park in the reserved section.

speaker1: mr. ward, it's a delight to meet you. 
speaker2: it's wood. ed wood.
speaker1: wood? ward? wood. hey, what do you know. it
speaker2: well, mr. feldman, some people have resumes to show. i've got my own movie.
speaker1: really?! well good for you.
speaker2: i just made this picture, over at screen classics. it opens next week.
speaker1: screen classics? hmm, don't know them.
speaker2: nobody in town has seen it, so i'm givin' you first crack at my talents.
speaker1: i can't wait to take a look. so what's up next?
speaker2: well, mr. feldman, i don't believe in thinking small. so i've got a whole slate of pictures for you: "the vampire's tomb," "the ghoul goes west"... and "doctor acula"!
speaker1: doctor acula? i don't get it.

speaker1: but bela lugosi's in it! 
speaker2: lugosi's washed-up. what else you got?
speaker1: well... i've got another project i wasn't gonna tell you about. lugosi's in it, but he's got a smaller part. the lead is an ingenue, a sterling young actress named dolores fuller. the title is "bride of the atom."
speaker2: ah! atomic age stuff, huh? i like it. i'll tell you what, mr. ward. why don't you leave those film cans, and my associates and i will take a look at your little opus. maybe we can do business together.

speaker1: "give this man satin undies, a dress, and a sweater... and he's the happiest man in the world. he can work better, think better, even play better -- and be more of a credit to his community and his government." 
speaker2: what the is this?!
speaker3: is this an actual movie?!
speaker2: it can't be.
speaker3: it's ridiculous!

speaker1: georgie, what happened?! i thought "glen or glenda" was opening next week! where's the ads? 
speaker2: "where's the ads"?! the ads are in alabama, indiana, and missouri! you schmuck, it ain't gonna play l.a.!
speaker1: why not??
speaker2: because i can't sell it to save my life! you made a feathered fish. is it an art film, a horror show, a hygiene flick? nobody knows!
speaker1: maybe it needs special handling.
speaker2: screw you, wood! i even sunk more money into different titles: "transvestite" "he or she?" "i led two lives"... it doesn't matter! nobody wants to see the piece of
speaker1: you can't talk that way about my movie.
speaker2: "your movie"?! i wish it was your movie! i wish i hadn't blown every dime i ever made into this stinkbomb. if i ever see you again, i'll kill you!!!

speaker1: so guess where i'm going next weekend? 
speaker2: i don't know. where?
speaker1: mexico! and guess what i'm going to do there?!
speaker2: i dunno. lie on the beach?
speaker1: wrong! i'm getting my first series of hormone shots! and once those babies kick in, they're gonna remove my organs, and make me a woman!
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: yes! i've dreamed of it for years, but your movie made me realize i've got to take action. goodbye, penis!
speaker3: ssh! will you keep it down?
speaker2: my look at that guy. he's a mountain!
speaker2: i've never seen anything like him!
speaker1: and once i'm a woman, jean-claude and i are getting married --
speaker2: ssh! he's so big! he's a

speaker1: mr. johnson, over here! 
speaker1: glad you could fit me in your schedule.
speaker2: da pleasure be mine.
speaker2: could we moovf to table?
speaker1: oh, of course!
speaker1: so, mr. johnson --
speaker2: tor!
speaker1: tor. have you ever thought about becoming an actor?
speaker2: mm, not good-lookink enough.
speaker1: i think you're quite handsome.
speaker2: no. with hair, yah. but i must shave head for wrestlink. it scare da crowds. dey like that.
speaker1: well, i think you'd be a sensation in pictures.
speaker2: but what bout accent? some people tink i haf too much accent.
speaker1: nah, that doesn't matter! it's a visual medium.
speaker3: tor, what can i get ya?
speaker2: i'll haf eight beers.
speaker3: and you?
speaker1: uhh, i'll have just one.
speaker2: and more nuts!
speaker1: so anyway, i've got this new script, "bride of the atom," and there's a part you're ideal for: "lobo." he's tough. a brute. but he has a heart -- and at the end he saves the girl.
speaker2: i like. when do movie shoot?
speaker1: hopefully, very soon. i'm just awaiting the final okay from mr.

speaker1: wood productions... we hear bela's weak voice. bela eddie... help me... 
speaker1: bela? bela eddie... please come over --

speaker1: eddie... my friend. 
speaker2: bela, what happened?!
speaker1: i didn't feel well...
speaker2: let me take you to the hospital.
speaker1: no hospital. just take me to the couch...
speaker2: should i call a doctor?
speaker1: nah. this happens all the time...
speaker2: is there anything i can get you?
speaker1: goulash.
speaker2: i don't know how to make goulash.
speaker2: what's in the needle?
speaker1: morphine, with a demerol chaser. eddie, i'm so broke. i don't know what i'm gonna do...
speaker2: don't worry. i'll do something.

speaker1: i'm no good. 
speaker2: ed, it's just one man's opinion!
speaker1: bela needs a job... i can't even get a film going... but
speaker1: all i wanna do is tell stories. the things i find interesting...
speaker2: well maybe you're not studio kind of material. maybe you just need to raise the money yourself.
speaker1: the movie is called "bride of the atom"...

speaker1: "greetings. i am the count." 
speaker2: "greetings. i am slick slomopavitz, seeker of adventure." audience laughs. applause. "say, that's a funny place to sleep."
speaker1: "it is my home."
speaker2: "oh, tract housing, huh?" laugh.
speaker1: "beg to differ. this casket incarpratates, er, inporporates --" ed interrupts.
speaker2: no bela, that's "incorporates." look, just say "this casket has..."
speaker1: ach! how do they expect a hungarian to pronounce this dialogue? this live television is madness!
speaker3: five minutes, mr. lugosi.

speaker1: and then what's gonna happen? 
speaker2: in 1960, the automobile will have retractable wings, so it can fly.
speaker1: sounds like a heck of a way to beat traffic.
speaker2: by 1970, man will have colonized mars. millions of people will live there.
speaker3: wow! ain't that something.

speaker1: greetings. i am the count. 
speaker2: greetings. i am slick slomopavitz, seeker of adventure.
speaker2: say, that's a funny place to sleep.
speaker1: it is my home.
speaker2: oh, tract housing, huh? i guess i shouldn't complain about my duplex in burbank. what a dump. some places have a murphy bed, this place has a murphy
speaker2: "beg to differ?!" hey, i'm talkin' about my duplex in burbank!
speaker1: uh, greetings. i am the count...
speaker3: ed covers his face in embarrassment.

speaker1: i told you we should've gotten karloff. 
speaker2: bela, don't worry. you're better than all this crap.
speaker3: i never said i could ad-lib...
speaker2: forget about it. we'll make our new movie, and you'll be a star again.
speaker4: mr.
speaker4: ah, cheer up! don't lose heart over what happened tonight. i predict that your next project will be an outstanding success!
speaker2: wow.
speaker4: and who may you be?
speaker2: edward wood, sir.
speaker4: ah. the director of "glen or glenda."
speaker2: h-how'd you know?!
speaker4: i'm criswell. i know all.

speaker1: bring me two more beefeater martinis. eddie will have another whiskey, dagmar's a rum-and-coke, moustapha and king are chablis -- hey bela, would you like a wine? 
speaker2: no. i never drink -- wine.
speaker3: hey cris, how'd you know we'd be living on mars by 1970? how'd you know it wouldn't be 1975, or even

speaker1: i guessed. 
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: i made it up. it's horseshit!
speaker1: there's no such thing as a psychic. people believe my folderol because i wear a turban and a black tuxedo.
speaker2: it's that easy?
speaker1: eddie, we're in show biz! it's all about razzle-dazzle. appearances. if you dress nice and talk well, people will swallow anything.

speaker1: excuse me. we're here for the wood party. 
speaker2: ah, that would be in the venetian room, sir.

speaker1: we're gonna have the most terrifying monster ever seen on film! a ghastly creature created from an atomic mutation! 
speaker2: i don't like scary movies. i go more for ones with love stories.
speaker1: well that's what this movie

speaker1: what do you think you're doin'?! 
speaker2: these shoes are itchy.
speaker1: you

speaker1: bernie, get a load of this guy! 
speaker2: biceps 22! chest 62! stomach 54!
speaker1: whew! you're quite a specimen. and you're gonna be in the picture?
speaker2: yes. i play lobo!
speaker3: an excited hick backer shakes bela's hand.
speaker4: mr. lugosi, i can't believe i'm meeting you in person. this is one of the most exciting moments of my life.
speaker5: thank you. and you are?
speaker4: charlie johnson! i manufacture toothpaste tubes.
speaker6: criswell struts in the b.g., talking to someone.
speaker7: i predict "bride of the atom" will be the biggest moneymaker of all time!
speaker8: and this is lovely starlet dolores fuller, who will play janet lawton.
speaker9: and how much will this picture cost?
speaker8: in a normal studio it would be half-a-million, with all their wasteful overhead and fancy offices. but because we're more efficient, we can bring it in for seventy grand!
speaker9: hmm. well i'll consider it...

speaker1: goodbye! goodbye! 
speaker2: so how'd we do?
speaker1: we didn't make a dime.

speaker1: that's twenty-five cents, sir. 
speaker2: i gave all my money to the babysitter.

speaker1: ed, the landlord called again. he wants his money. 
speaker2: tell him "bride" is in pre- production.
speaker1: ed, the landlord doesn't care.
speaker2: that's the problem!
speaker2: dolores, don't you understand? i'm a director now! i made "glen or glenda." directing
speaker3: uh, yoo-hoo. excuse me! sorry to interrupt, but i got some big news.
speaker2: yeah...?
speaker3: well my cousin fred met this dame from back east. she's from "old money," and he thinks she's loaded.

speaker1: pleased to meet you. i'm loretta king. 
speaker2: i understand you just moved here?
speaker1: yes. hollywood is oh so exciting.
speaker3: water, ma'am?
speaker1: no! no water! no liquids! i'm terribly allergic to them!
speaker2: so my associate mr. marco tells me you may be interested in investing in a motion picture.
speaker1: perhaps a small amount of money. how much do one of your motion pictures cost?
speaker2: for this one, we need $60,000.
speaker1: that's all?? that seems very reasonable for an entire picture. ed perks up. she's a live one!
speaker2: perhaps you'd like to look at the photoplay.
speaker1: oh my, this is very interesting. say... do you think it would be possible for me to maybe play one of these parts?
speaker2: oh, of course!! there's a couple characters you'd be perfect for: the secretary at the newspaper office, or the file clerk!
speaker1: hmm. those sound kind of small. oh, here's one that looks good: janet lawton. i'd sure like to play her.
speaker2: j-janet lawton???
speaker4: yes, janet layton is clearly the part to play. she's got some real meaty scenes! can't you just see

speaker1: it was the only way i could get the movie made! 
speaker2: who do you think's been paying the rent?! who helped type your script, and did all your grunt work?!
speaker1: i'm sorry! what did you want me to say?
speaker2: i wanted you to say, "no! i wrote the part for my girlfriend dolores."
speaker1: but there's plenty of other parts.
speaker2: like

speaker1: this is gonna be bela's laboratory, so it should be real impressive! like one of those mad scientist movies. i want beakers, and test tubes, and one of those electrical things that buzzes! 
speaker2: you mean a tesla coil?
speaker1: if you say so.
speaker3: edvard! i haf question 'bout script. my vife greta, she read. and she no like.
speaker1: really? was the third act too intense?
speaker3: no. she tink lobo is waste of my time. lobo don't talk.
speaker1: but tor, it's a starring part!
speaker3: bela, he talk. loretta, she talk. but tor, he no talk.
speaker1: tor, dialogue is overrated. you look at the classic film actors, who are they? fairbanks. chaplin. they didn't talk! they did it all with their face.
speaker3: but greta say -- loretta walks over, holding two dresses.
speaker4: eddie, which dress do you like better?
speaker1: i don't know. hey bill, which dress is better for you, the green or the red one?
speaker5: which one
speaker5: i mean i can't see the difference. i'm color-blind. but i like the dark gray one.

speaker1: okay, you're dr. eric vornoff. you're upset. you've worked so hard on this experisent, and you don't want to see it fail. no, you're not 
speaker2: yah.
speaker1: okay, cue rainstorm!
speaker1: and roll camera! action!
speaker1: okay, you're lobo. you're upset. you've worked so hard helping dr. vornoff on this experiment, and you don't want to see it fail. no, you're not
speaker3: at universal, they shot two scenes a day. eddie can knock off twenty or thirty! he's incredible.
speaker4: cameraman bill leans in to ed.
speaker5: hey ed, shouldn't we do another take? big baldy kinda got stuck in the doorway.
speaker1: no, it's fine. it's real! in actuality, lobo would struggle with that problem every day.

speaker1: wow, this lab looks great. except why is there a stove and refrigerator? 
speaker2: we couldn't afford any more props. if it seems weird, maybe you can add a scene where they eat dinner.
speaker1: nah, it'll work. where's bela?
speaker1: bela, are you ready?
speaker3: mmph? where am i?
speaker1: you're shooting "bride of the atom." scene 85.
speaker1: you'll be sitting on the right.
speaker3: i'm not getting near that thing. one of those burned me on "the return of chandu."
speaker1: okay. then you'll be sitting on the
speaker4: okey-dokey.

speaker1: "dear, you are a woman of super strength and beauty. a lovely vision of exquisitely beauty -- shit!" eddie, i'm sorry i can't remember all this. i'm an old man. 
speaker2: that's fine, bela. we're still rolling. just say "dear, you're lovely."
speaker1: "dear, you're lovely." "strap her to the table."
speaker1: "do as i command you!"

speaker1: "i'll teach you to disobey me!" 
speaker1: bela chases tor around the set, whipping him.
speaker2: and, cut!!! impeccable!

speaker1: i love being movie star! 
speaker1: tor jubilantly hugs loretta. she grimaces.
speaker2: ow. not so hard, tor.
speaker3: hey, wood. your check bounced.
speaker4: okay, i'll get you the money later.
speaker3: no. i need it now.
speaker4: sorry to bother you while we're shooting, but the guy who owns the stage needs his money.
speaker2: well then you should pay him, shouldn't you?
speaker4: yeah. exactly!
speaker4: i kinda need it now.
speaker2: what are you looking at me like that for? i already gave you my three hundred.
speaker4: yeah. well i need the other sixty-thousand.
speaker2: what other sixty-thousand?
speaker4: the other sixty-thousand you said you'd give me.
speaker2: you misunderstood. i gave you everything i have in the world: three-hundred dollars.
speaker5: he looks like he s going to throw up.
speaker4: oh my

speaker1: here we go again. 
speaker2: so is dolores coming?
speaker3: i can't imagine why. i wouldn't put up with a boyfriend who sold me out for three-hundred dollars...!

speaker1: ...lemme tell you, you can't lose. it's scary! and if you don't like that, it's romantic! bela lugosi portrays dr. vornoff, and lovely ingenue loretta king is reporter janet lawton. 
speaker2: hmm. lugosi looks pretty old. which role is vampira playing?
speaker1: well i see her standing over there.

speaker1: excuse me, miss vampira? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: you don't know me, but my name is ed wood. i'm a film producer. i'm currently in production on a science-fiction piece, with bela lugosi and swedish wrestler tor johnson. and i saw you here, and i thought: kismet!
speaker2: i don't understand. do you want my autograph?
speaker1: no. i think my film is perfect for you.
speaker2: you want me to show it on my tv program? well i got nothing to do with that. you should call up the station manager at channel seven --
speaker1: no! i don't want you to show the movie, i want you to be
speaker1: please! it'll only take a minute. you can have some hors d'oeuvres, and meet my backers! there's a really nice dentist from oxnard...
speaker2: look buddy, i'm a big star. i've got real offers from real studios. i don't need to blow some dentist for a part. so forget it!

speaker1: where are you guys going?! you can't leave! 
speaker2: goodbye, mr. wood.
speaker1: you can't go! you haven't seen the storyboards! the backers run out of the room. they're gone.
speaker1: fine! screw you! if you don't have the to roll the dice, then i don't want your stinking money!!
speaker1: please, come back!

speaker1: i told you this was gonna happen. 
speaker2: maybe if you'd come to the backers party, i would've gotten the money.
speaker1: that's moronic. why would a bit player impress a backer?
speaker2: look, how many times can i say i'm sorry? i blew it! i thought she was rich.
speaker1: that's a good reason to dump your girlfriend.

speaker1: so what?? look, we gotta figure out where we're gonna stay. 
speaker2: i'm going to my mother's.
speaker1: does she have room for me?
speaker2: i think you should stay with one of your friends.

speaker1: bela, i don't know what i'm doin' anymore... 
speaker2: stop worrying. this is going to raise your spirits.

speaker1: thou eternal sun, who has covered the consciousness with thy golden disc, do thou remove the veil so that i may see the truth within? 
speaker2: what is this place?
speaker3: this is the philosophical research society. a refuge for free thinkers. i've been coming here for twenty years.
speaker1: ...for the truth which is within thee is within me. and i am truth.
speaker3: most people in this country, they know nothing, about eastern mysticism. they are afraid of it. but i am open-minded. it gives me hope.
speaker1: we have the wisdom to govern and the divine right to inherit the earth in good condition. we have the power to build worlds.
speaker2: was i wrong to cast loretta?
speaker3: bad decisions are easy to live with.
speaker2: but was it a bad decision? at the time, i thought her money would save the movie.
speaker3: eddie, you screwed up.
speaker2: yeah, i did.

speaker1: in life, the decisions that haunt you are the ones where you just don't know... where right or wrong will never be answered. years ago, the hungarians contacted me. the government wanted me to come home, to be minister of culture. 
speaker2: really?
speaker1: it was a very impressive offer. fancy offices, a big home... i'd be treated like a king.
speaker2: so why didn't you do it?
speaker1: i didn't know if it was a trick. they might arrest me and throw me in a gulag. i am hungary's most famous emigrant. they'd use me as a lesson to anyone who tries to leave.
speaker2: but maybe not.
speaker1: correct. so instead, i stayed here, waiting for my comeback. always hoping... the next film, the next film... that would be the one.
speaker2: your next film. that

speaker1: ...and then dr. vornoff falls in the pit, and his own octopus attacks and eats him! the end. old man mccoy whew! that's quite a story. so you made the movie, and now you want to make it again? 
speaker1: no. we shot ten minutes of the movie, and now we're looking for completion funds. old man mccoy son, you're too vague. i come from the world of business. i need to know what i get for my investment.
speaker1: movies are very popular. you could make a lot of money. old man mccoy yeah, but most of 'em flop, don't they? what am i tangibly guaranteed?
speaker1: well... you get "executive producer" credit. old man mccoy that don't mean diddley. billy bob! you're cutting 'em too

speaker1: mr. mccoy, how can i make you happy? old man mccoy cut to the chase, heh? that's good! that's very good. mccoy spits his tobacco. old man mccoy okay, two things. number one: i want the movie to end with a big explosion. sky full of smoke. 
speaker1: but the story ends with dr. vornoff falling in the pit -- old man mccoy not anymore. and number two: i've got a son. he's a little slow -- but a good boy. and something tells me he'd make a of a leading man...

speaker1: tor, you got a phone call! 
speaker2: heh? now?
speaker1: they said it was an emergency!
speaker2: hallo?
speaker3: tor, this is ed! glad i could find you! i got the money, and we resume shooting tomorrow morning!
speaker2: but i'm in utah.
speaker3: then you'll have to drive all night! i'm counting on you, big guy. breakfast is at seven.

speaker1: this is unbelievable! i woulda bet a million bucks that ed wouldn't finish this picture. 
speaker2: it ain't finished yet. anything could happen.

speaker1: honey, you made it! i wasn't sure you got my message. 
speaker2: of course i'm here. today is the file clerk's big scene.
speaker1: that's right...
speaker2: i see the usual gang of misfits and dope addicts are here. say, who's the lug?
speaker3: "now janet, i want you straying away -- oops --
speaker2: oh really? how much money did he put up?
speaker1: none. but his dad gave me fifty grand.
speaker2: wood productions. the mark of quality.
speaker1: hey,

speaker1: hey harry -- long time no see. 
speaker2: hi dolores...
speaker3: oh, you're dolores?! i've heard so much about you! i'm loretta king. here, take the chair.
speaker1: don't be silly -- let harry finish.
speaker4: no, i'm done. all i needed was a touch-up.
speaker1: mm, that mole still shows.
speaker5: ladies! you both look fine. why don't we talk about the scene? okay. janet lawton has discovered that dr. vornoff bought the old willows estate. so now she wants to prove that all the monster stories are true.
speaker1: eddie, what's
speaker1: but what's our relationship? are we good friends, or is she just a casual acquaintance?
speaker5: dolores, i got five days to shoot this movie. quit kidding around.

speaker1: dolores turns deadpan to the camera. 
speaker2: of course it was.

speaker1: bravo! bravo! magnifico! 
speaker2: cris, you made it. thanks a lot.
speaker1: my pleasure. i'm always happy to assist in a little larceny.

speaker1: my head is cold. 
speaker2: you know how much this car cost me?
speaker3: ten thousand dollars.
speaker2: one dollar! miss mae west herself sold it to me. she said, cris, you belong in a pink cadillac!
speaker2: incidentally, you
speaker4: uh, i couldn't reach the guy... he was in meetings all day. but this'll be great, i promise!
speaker1: i'm no good at climbink.
speaker1: i'm good at bashink!!
speaker2: hey, keep it down. my publicist will throttle me if we get caught.

speaker1: oh. i thought they kept this open. 
speaker2: lobo will fix!
speaker3: this place gives se the creeps.
speaker1: not so fast. first we have to get it down.
speaker4: a giant octopus is lashed to the ceiling.

speaker1: you're sure this is gonna work? 
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: you're

speaker1: criswell moans. 
speaker2: oh my we killed him.

speaker1: tor! are you okay?! 
speaker2: bedder than wrestlink!

speaker1: hey! what are you doing?! 
speaker2: thank tor broke the fence.

speaker1: "now janet, i want you staying away from the old willows place." 
speaker2: you don't understand! the octopus is supposed to live in a
speaker2: no! it has to be underwater!

speaker1: eddie, i'm so tired... i don't know if i can handle a night shoot... 
speaker2: nonsense! you look great -- look, uh, why don't you lie down and take a little nap? we'll film around you for a while.
speaker2: thanks, buddy...

speaker1: what octopus motor? 
speaker2: you know, to make the legs move --
speaker1: hey, don't blame me! you didn't say anything about no motor when i was up on that ceiling!
speaker3: let's shoot this fucker! where do i go?
speaker2: you'll be fighting with the octopus.
speaker3: out
speaker3: oh, for christ's sake.
speaker3: goddamn, it's cold!
speaker2: once you're in it, it warms up.
speaker3: you!
speaker2: bela, somebody misplaced the motor. so when you wrestle the octopus, shake the legs a bit, to make it look like it's killing you.
speaker3: do you know i turned down "frankenstein"?
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: after i did "dracula," the studio offered me "frankenstein"! but i turned it down, the part wasn't enough. it was too degrading for a big star like me.
speaker2: bela, i've got twenty-five scenes to shoot tonight.
speaker3: don't let me slow you down.
speaker2: alright! let's put it on film.

speaker1: c'mon! just one more day! just have some coffee, you'll feel better! 
speaker2: mr. wood, i only got one hour of sleep.
speaker1: yeah? well i got
speaker3: that's fine, eddie. all in the line of duty.
speaker1: no. seriously. i want you to know how much i appreciate what you've done for me. a great man like you shouldn't have to run around in freezing water at four in the morning.
speaker3: well, there aren't too many other fellas i'd do it for...
speaker1: i wrote something special for you. i got to thinking about all the sacrifices you've made... and so i wrote you a new final speech.
speaker3: eddie, this is quite a scene.
speaker1: i know it's a lot to give you at the last second.
speaker3: these lines -- i'll have no problem remembering.

speaker1: "our government wants you to return... to continue your experiments there. where you can have everything at your disposal." bela "my dear professor strowski, twenty years ago i was banned from my home land. i was classed as a madman -- a charlatan -- outlawed in the world of science which previously honored me as a genius!" "now here in this forsaken jungle hell, i have proven that i am alright." 
speaker1: "yes, the authorities have learned how correct your findings were. so i am here -- sent to bring you home."
speaker2: "home. i have no home. hunted... despised... living like an animal -- the jungle is my home! but i will show the world that i can be its master. i shall perfect my own race of people -- a race of atomic supermen that will conquer the world!"
speaker3: he is very moved. he whispers, barely audible.
speaker4: cut. it's a wrap.

speaker1: so 
speaker1: i can't believe this!
speaker1: yes! my father ran a mortuary -- it's an old habit!

speaker1: "mccoy meat packing"? are you sure there's a party here? 
speaker2: yeah, i got this invitation. it's a "bride of the atom" party, whatever that means.
speaker3: "glen or glenda," now that was a of a picture.
speaker4: well, this new one's gonna be a hundred times better.
speaker3: is that possible?

speaker1: go, baby, go! 
speaker2: i don't believe it. it's

speaker1: you people are insane! take a look around -- you're all freaks! 
speaker1: you're wasting your lives making nobody cares! these movies are terrible! i can't take it any longer! the group is shocked. nobody speaks. dolores runs out of the party.

speaker1: dolores, wait! 
speaker2: ed, it's over. i need a normal life.
speaker1: did you really mean those things you said..?
speaker2: i'm tired of living on the fringe.
speaker1: but you used to say --
speaker2: ed... i just stuck it out so you could finish your movie. now that it's done, so am i.

speaker1: yeah... tor ed, dit i wake you? it's two in avternoon. 
speaker1: no, i was just doin' a little work... tor bullchit! you been like dis too many days. i want to cheer you up.

speaker1: pass the meatballs. 
speaker2: this strudel is delicious, mama.
speaker3: hey! you're not eatink.
speaker4: uh, i don't have much of an appetite lately.
speaker3: the food will make you feel bedder. look at me -- i'm da happiest guy i know!
speaker4: i'd be happy too, if i had such a great family.
speaker3: don't worry. you just haven't met right woman yet. oopsy. that cabbage goes right through me.
speaker4: greta, your husband is a terrific actor. you should come down and visit the set.
speaker5: i don't think so.
speaker4: no, it's really no problem at all!
speaker5: i do not approve of what you do with my husband tor. he is not a monster. these horror pictures are humiliating. ed has no response. suddenly -- crash! there's a loud o.s.

speaker1: look, it happened again! 
speaker2: tor, i should be getting home.
speaker1: nonsense! you must try our hot glug.

speaker1: my friend, you tink greta is first woman i ever see? no! many duds, before i find her. 
speaker2: but i thought me and dolores had something.
speaker1: forget her! move on. a good lookink boy like you as you can have any girl you wish.

speaker1: we need some better jokes on this show. 
speaker2: vampira, you got a phone call.
speaker1: at this hour? hello?
speaker3: vampira! hi, this is ed wood.
speaker1: who?
speaker3: ed wood! you came to my party. i directed "bride of the atom"!
speaker1: oh. yeah. you.
speaker3: well, i was wondering if maybe sometime you'd like to go out, and maybe grab some dinner.
speaker1: you mean like a date? i thought you were a fag.
speaker3: me?! no, uh, i'm just a transvestite.
speaker1: isn't that the same thing?
speaker3: no, no! i like girls. so how 'bout friday?
speaker1: look, you seem like a nice guy, ed, but you're just not my type. but keep in touch. let me know when your movie opens.

speaker1: excuse me. is that angora? 
speaker2: why... yes.
speaker3: don't you think angora has a tactile sensuality lacking in all other clothing?
speaker2: i suppose. it's very expensive.
speaker3: it's made from specially-bred rabbits that live in the himalayas.
speaker2: what are you, an angora wholesaler?
speaker3: no, i work in pictures. i'm a director-actor-writer-producer.
speaker2: ah, c'mon! nobody does all that.
speaker3: two people do. orson welles and me.
speaker2: wow.
speaker3: you know, you're a very attractive girl.
speaker2: my goodness, you're embarrassing me.
speaker3: you shouldn't be embarrassed by the truth. mind if i order some hotcakes...?

speaker1: so who's the surprise for? 
speaker2: i dunno. ed was real mysterious. all he'd say was it's a surprise party.
speaker1: isn't that like him! and isn't that like
speaker3: they've rented stage 12. drive straight back.

speaker1: so what are we doing here? 
speaker2: nobody knows. but there's a lotta booze.
speaker3: excuse me! could everyone please quiet down? first of all, i want to thank you, all my good friends, for being here tonight. and second, if you're wondering what the big surprise is... well, tonight i'm getting married!! the crowd is stunned. many people drop their glasses.
speaker3: everybody, this is
speaker1: who the is she??
speaker2: i never heard of her.
speaker3: and bela, i want you to be the best man!

speaker1: ...norma, do you promise to love, honor, and cherish... 
speaker2: i didn't even know he had a girlfriend.
speaker3: i hear she's an actress who gave him money.
speaker4: nah, i heard she's his childhood sweetheart from poughkeepsie.
speaker5: i predict it's dolores in a mask.
speaker1: ...in sickness and in health, till death do you part?
speaker6: i do.
speaker1: then i now pronounce you man and wife. ed kisses norma. the crowd doesn't applaud. they're too baffled by this whole event.

speaker1: norma, this is bela -- bela, this is norma. norma, this is tor -- tor, this is norma. norma, this is paul paul, this is norma. 
speaker2: so how long have you known eddie?
speaker3: since tuesday.
speaker4: edward, are you sure you know what you're doing?
speaker1: yeah. it seems a little crazy, but sometimes

speaker1: eddie, i'm just a small-town girl. 
speaker2: don't worry, i'll teach you.
speaker1: be understanding. i don't know anything.
speaker2: honey, i have a little secret to share with you.

speaker1: stay away from me! you're perverted! 
speaker2: please, be compassionate. i'm your husband!
speaker1: no you're not! this marriage was never consummated. i'm getting an annulment!

speaker1: bela, let me in! bela, it's eddie. 
speaker1: bela, what's with the gun?
speaker2: why aren't you on your honeymoon?
speaker1: norma. she changed her mind. she doesn't wanna marry me. can you put down the gun?

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i was thinking about killing myself.
speaker1: christ, what an evening. what happened?
speaker2: eddie, i received a letter from the government. they're cutting off my unemployment. that's all i've got.
speaker1: don't you have any savings?
speaker2: i'm obsolete. i have nothing to live for. tonight, i should die. and you should come with me.
speaker1: buddy, i don't know if that's such a good idea.
speaker2: it'll be wonderful. we'll be at peace. in the afterlife, you don't have to worry about finding work.
speaker1: bela, i'm on your side. c'mon, give me the gun... if you give me the gun, i'll make you a drink. what are you drinking?
speaker2: formaldehyde.
speaker1: straight up or on the rocks? bela drops the gun. he starts weeping.
speaker1: don't worry.
speaker2: i'm sorry, eddie. i'm so sorry.
speaker1: don't worry. everything's gonna be all right.

speaker1: my goodness, you gave me the willies. 
speaker2: my name is bela lugosi. i wish to commit myself.
speaker1: for what reason?
speaker2: i have been a drug addict for twenty years. i need help...

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello. you're sleeping in a tuxedo.
speaker1: i got married last night.
speaker2: oh. congratulations.
speaker1: the marriage already ended.
speaker2: oh. my condolences.
speaker1: what are you making?
speaker2: booties for my father. he gets cold in this hospital.
speaker1: how long's he been here?
speaker2: this is my thirteenth pair.
speaker1: excuse me. doctor? i'm with mr. lugosi. how is he?
speaker3: well... there's a lot of junk in his system for such an old man. apparently, he was addicted to morphine, tried to kick it, and got re-addicted to methadone.
speaker1: will he be okay?
speaker3: we'll do our best.

speaker1: hi, lillian. 
speaker2: hi, ed. boy, he's got a lot of visitors today.
speaker1: he does?

speaker1: everybody out! this is a hospital! get out of here. 
speaker1: what happened?!
speaker2: isn't it wonderful? after all these years, the press is showing an interest again in bela lugosi.
speaker1: bela, they're parasites! they just want to exploit you.
speaker2: fine. let them! there is no such thing as bad press. a man from new york even said he's putting me on the front page! first celebrity to ever check into rehab. when i get out of here, i will be healthy. strong! i will be primed for my comeback!

speaker1: oh, it's you again. 
speaker2: oh, hi.
speaker1: you look beat.
speaker2: i am. how's your father?
speaker1: he's better. thank you for asking. how's your friend?
speaker2: not good...
speaker1: well, i made him some booties to cheer him up. they're black -- to match his cape. she smiles.
speaker2: would you maybe like to get a coffee..?

speaker1: we thought mr. lugosi was insured though the screen actors guild. 
speaker2: isn't he?
speaker1: no. they say his eligibility ran out years ago.
speaker2: look, he doesn't have any money... but i'll give you everything i've got. i have a few hundred dollars.
speaker1: that won't even begin to cover it.

speaker1: bela, wake up. 
speaker1: i've got some good news. the doctor says you're all better. you can come home.
speaker2: really? i don't feel so great.
speaker1: no, you look good. and the tests came back fine. c'mon...
speaker2: eddie, i wanna make another picture. when are we gonna make another picture?
speaker1: soon, bela... soon.

speaker1: please, i just need it for one afternoon! 
speaker2: ed, if i cut a deal for you, i gotta cut one for everybody.
speaker1: this is different! it'll mean so much to me. all i need is a camera and a tripod. no lights, no sound.
speaker2: and that's it?
speaker1: and one roll of film.

speaker1: this is so exciting. another production! 
speaker1: so eddie, don't we need a sound crew?
speaker2: no, this is just the second unit.
speaker1: oh. so what is the scene about?
speaker2: uh... you're a very important and respected man. you're leaving your house... and you're in a hurry to a big social event.
speaker1: okay. but what if i'm not in

speaker1: okay, roll camera! rolling. scene one, take one! and... action! 
speaker1: and, cut...
speaker2: eddie, how was i?
speaker1: perfect.
speaker2: good. now what about my close up?

speaker1: oh, flowers! i didn't know you were so traditional. 
speaker2: i just picked them up on the way over...
speaker1: they're very nice. let me get my coat.

speaker1: so have you always lived in l.a.? 
speaker2: no. i'm from back east. you know, all-american small town... everybody knew everybody, i was a boy scout, my dad worked for the post office...
speaker1: sounds like you lived in grovers corners.

speaker1: did you find it boring? 
speaker2: nah, 'cause i had my comic books. and i read pulp magazines. and i listened to the radio dramas...
speaker1: oh. i loved those shows! "inner sanctum"... "the shadow" --
speaker2: yeah! don't forget "mercury theatre"... and then every saturday, i'd go to the little movie theater down the street. i even started ushering there.
speaker1: you're not gonna believe the first picture i ever saw. your friend's.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: "dracula." ed freaks out.
speaker2: that's incredible! that's the first picture
speaker1: that
speaker1: a few years ago, i actually saw him do "dracula" live. i thought he was much scarier in person.

speaker1: kathy, i'm about to tell you something i've never told any girl on a first date. but i think it's important that you know. i like to wear women's clothes. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: i like to wear women's clothes: panties, brassieres, sweaters, pumps... it's just something i do. and i can't believe i'm telling you, but i really like you, and i don't want it getting in the way down the road.
speaker2: does this mean you don't like with girls?
speaker1: no! i love with girls.
speaker2: oh. okay.
speaker1: okay?
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: didn't you just make one called "bride of the atom"? 
speaker2: it's the same film. but the distributor wanted a punchier title. c'mon! it's gonna be a big event -- we're going all out! bela, tor, and cris are coming. you'll have fun!

speaker1: my eyes are killink me. 
speaker2: don't worry. we're almost there.
speaker3: eddie, where are we? we passed that carwash twenty minutes ago.
speaker4: i predict we're lost.
speaker5: hey! you wanna watch the hands??
speaker3: sorry...
speaker2: has anyone ever been to downey?

speaker1: children, if you don't calm down, there won't be the entertainment. 
speaker2: it was supposed to start an hour ago!
speaker3: my eyes are burnink.
speaker4: hey look! there's the theater.
speaker3: where? i can't see nothink!
speaker5: thank you're here! they're tearing the place apart!
speaker3: ow.
speaker5: c'mon! this way!

speaker1: it's the blind leading the blind! 
speaker2: dis is a nightmare.
speaker3: it's show biz.
speaker4: what is that?
speaker5: i think they're getting ready to burn this place down.
speaker6: hey vampira, how 'bout a little love?
speaker5: off!
speaker7: children, please! be calm!
speaker8: the lights suddenly go off. some girls scream.
speaker9: c'mon! we're getting the out of here!
speaker2: what is happening?
speaker9: we're escaping!

speaker1: last night was quite a romp. 
speaker2: did you see that kid grab vampira's
speaker1: i envied him. hell, i envied you too, having a girlfriend that would jump in front of a car like that.
speaker2: yeah, she's really somethin'.
speaker1: i know none of
speaker2: i just wish you coulda seen the movie.
speaker1: no problem. i know it by heart...
speaker1: "home. i have no home. hunted... despised... living like an animal -- the jungle is my home! but i will show the world that i can be its master. i shall perfect my own race of people... a race of atomic supermen that will conquer the world!" ed is touched. a few people around them applaud.
speaker3: mr. lugosi, could i have your autograph?
speaker1: certainly.
speaker3: boy, that was incredible. you're just as good an actor as you always were.
speaker1: better. i'm seventy-four, but i don't know it. if the brain is young, then the spirit is still vigorous... like a young man. bela turns and smiles wanly at ed.

speaker1: ed, this spaghetti sauce is delicious. 
speaker2: thanks. it's actually the only thing i know how to make. hey, can you grab that strainer?
speaker2: ugh! always at the wrong time. hello? he listens.
speaker2: oh no...
speaker1: what was that?
speaker2: bela died.

speaker1: whose crazy idea was it to bury him in the cape? 
speaker2: i heard it was in the will. it was how he wanted to be remembered.

speaker1: i'd seen him in a coffin so many times, i expected him to jump out... 
speaker2: ed, you've got to snap out of this.
speaker2: well you tried --
speaker1: i was a hack! i let people recut the movies, cast their relatives... i let bela down...

speaker1: mr. wood?! 
speaker2: hruphh...?
speaker1: mr. wood, this is mr. reynolds, your landlord. could you please open up?
speaker2: yeah...?
speaker1: mr. wood, you have bounced your third and final rent check.
speaker2: i'm real sorry. my stockbroker must have transferred the wrong account...

speaker1: hmm, so you're in the picture business? 
speaker2: you could say that --

speaker1: oh! our church has the money for one film. we just don't have it for all twelve... 
speaker2: his eyes suddenly pop.
speaker3: okay -- you know what you do? you produce a film in a commercially proven genre. and after it's a hit, you take the profits from
speaker3: absolutely! you see this script..?
speaker3: "graverobbers from outer space"!
speaker3: it's a guaranteed blockbuster!
speaker1: um, i understand that this science friction is popular -- but don't the big hits always have big stars?
speaker3: yeah, well we've got a big star!
speaker1: just, it doesn't look like very much.
speaker3: it's plenty! it's the acorn that will grow a great oak. i'll just find a double to finish his scenes, and we'll release it as "bela lugosi's final film" a beat. reynolds stares, intrigued...

speaker1: bunny! we're making another film! yeah -- i got the baptist church of beverly hills to put up the cash! 
speaker2: ed, i got the lugosi lookalikes outside.
speaker1: great! bring 'em in! bunny, i gotta run. ed hangs up.
speaker2: well i was thinkin' like, when bela played "fu manchu."
speaker1: that was karloff. paul, you gotta try harder. i don't want this film to be haif-assed. this time, we go for the quality.
speaker1: and by the way, keep sunday free. the producers want all of us to get baptized.

speaker1: you know, when you rewrite a script, it just gets better and better! 
speaker2: do you want your buttons on the left or the right?
speaker1: the left. it's more natural. hey, i've got a scene where the aliens have the ultimate bomb. what would that be made of?
speaker2: uh, atomic energy?
speaker1: no. they're beyond that! they're smarter than the humans. what's
speaker1: no, bigger! what's the biggest energy??
speaker2: the sun.
speaker1: yes! bingo! solar energy! oh that's gonna seem so scientific. this movie's gonna be the ultimate ed wood film.

speaker1: those assholes. 
speaker2: the poor girl's out of a job.
speaker1: yeah... i should give her a call.

speaker1: i'm really sorry... 
speaker2: it's terrible. people won't even return my calls. it's like i don't exist.
speaker1: i know what
speaker1: hell, if i did, i wouldn't have any friends.
speaker2: look... would it be possible to make the "ghoul's wife" a little less prominent, so people won't really notice me in the movie?
speaker1: you don't wanna be noticed?
speaker2: exactly. hey, how 'bout this -- what if i don't have any lines? i'll do the part mute!
speaker3: look, it's dr. tom. hey, dr. tom!
speaker1: who's dr. tom?
speaker3: my chiropractor!
speaker4: kathy, how are you?! you're looking in alignment today.
speaker3: actually, my neck's a little funny.

speaker1: he look nutink like bela! 
speaker2: he's kinds got his ears.
speaker1: you're stupid!
speaker3: no, cover up his face.
speaker4: ah! now i see it.
speaker5: "i want to your blood!" everybody cracks up. ed waves his arms.
speaker6: shhh! we want these baptists to like us.
speaker7: brothers and sisters, we've reached a special part of the service. the baptism of our new members! if the congregation will oblige, we'd like to adjourn and reconvene at emma dubois's back yard.

speaker1: why couldn't we do this in the church? 
speaker2: because "brother torã® couldn't fit in the sacred tub.

speaker1: ...do you accept the lord christ as your savior? 
speaker2: i do.

speaker1: ...do you reject satan and all his works? 
speaker2: i do.

speaker1: ...do you repent for all your sins? 
speaker2: i do.
speaker3: oh my i dropped him -- tor lies on the bottom, staring lifeinsly.
speaker4: i don't think he's coming up!
speaker1: lord no! the man's drowning!
speaker3: what do we do?!
speaker1: help! help!!!
speaker1: dear please forgive us!
speaker2: tor make good joke!

speaker1: i am so happy! finally i am star wit 
speaker2: the script refers on numerous occasions to graverobbing. now we find the concept of digging up consecrated ground highly offensive. it's blasphemy.
speaker3: what are you talking about?! it's the premise of the movie. it's even the title, for christ's sake!
speaker2: mr. wood!
speaker4: yes, about that title, it strikes us as very inflammatory. why don't we change it to "

speaker1: and, action! tor steps onto the set tor "medicul eksaminer been aroundt yet?" 
speaker2: "just left. the morgue wagon oughta be along most any time."
speaker3: "you get statement frumk vitnesses?"
speaker2: "yeah, but they're pretty scared."
speaker3: "findink mess like dis oughta make anyone frightened. have one of da boyz take dem back to town. you take jarge."

speaker1: what'd you give him all the lines for?? he's unintelligible! 
speaker2: look, lugosi is dead and vampira won't talk. ihad to give

speaker1: isn't it wonderful? bela lives! 
speaker2: doesn't this strike you as a bit morbid?
speaker1: no, he would've loved it! bela's returned from the grave -- like dracula.

speaker1: and perfect. cut! 
speaker2: "perfect"? mr. wood, do you know
speaker2: that cardboard headstone tipped over.
speaker1: people won't notice. filmmaking isn't about picky details -- it's about the big picture.
speaker2: oh, you wanna talk about the "big picture"?! how 'bout that the policemen arrive in the daylight, but now it's suddenly night???
speaker1: you don't know anything! haven't you ever heard of "suspension of disbelief"?!
speaker3: reverend, i'm here.
speaker1: who's
speaker1: are you in5ane?

speaker1: they're driving me crazy! these baptists are stupid, stupid, stupid! 
speaker1: mmm. i need to calm... take deep breaths... ohh, it's so smooth...

speaker1: mr. wood? 
speaker2: not like that, you're not!
speaker1: remove that get-up immediately. you shame our lord.
speaker3: that's it. i give up!

speaker1: imperial whiskey, straight up. 
speaker1: oh my it's orson welles...
speaker1: oh
speaker1: excuse me, sir...?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: uh, uh, i'm a young filmmaker, and a really big fan... and i just wanted to meet you.
speaker2: my pleasure. i'm orson welles.
speaker1: oh. um, i'm ed wood! so, what are you working on now?
speaker2: eh, the financing just fell through for the third time on "don quixote." so i'm trying to finish a promo for something else. but i can't find the soundtrack -- i think i left it in malta.
speaker1: i can't believe it. these sound like
speaker2: ugh, i hate when that happens.
speaker1: and they always want to cast their buddies -- it doesn't even
speaker2: it is when it works. you know the one film of mine i can stand to watch? "kane." the studio hated it... but they didn't get to touch a frame. ed, visions are worth fighting for. why spend your life making someone else's dreams?
speaker3: he has seen
speaker1: wow.

speaker1: mr. reynolds! 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: we are gonna finish this film
speaker1: and you're gonna make a bundle. this movie's gonna be famous! but only if you shut up, and let me do it my way!

speaker1: ed and his stock footage buddy watch a moviola. 
speaker2: okay, i want that tank! and i want that bomb!

speaker1: no! the aliens should look like people. 
speaker2: i'm tellin' ya, aliens are always green.

speaker1: "what plan will we follow?" 
speaker2: "plan nine."
speaker1: "plan nine..." "ah yes. plan nine deals with the resurrection of the dead."
speaker3: tor staggers up to paul marco and clobbers him.
speaker4: ed smiles at the baptists.
speaker5: maybe you guys were right. "plan nine"

speaker1: where's the cockpit set? 
speaker2: you're standing in it. alright, bring in the shower curtain!

speaker1: th hammy alien argues with the humans. 
speaker2: "so what if we develop this solarnite bomb? we'd be even a stronger nation."
speaker3: "stronger? you see! you see!! your stupid minds! stupid! stupid!"
speaker2: "that's all i'm taking from you." he whacks the alien. a brawl breaks out.

speaker1: i can't get it to go up. 
speaker2: ed, you're gonna miss your own premiere.
speaker1: c'mon! let's just go.

speaker1: you are about to see en extraordinary motion picture. but before it begins, i think we ought to give a hand to the man without whom we wouldn't be here tonight... eddie, take a bow! 
speaker2: thanks a million. i just wanna say... this film is for bela.

speaker1: ed, i'm so happy for you. 
speaker2: let's get married.
speaker1: huh?!

