speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey. nice tie.
speaker1: don't get too attached.
speaker2: ya got the paper?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you're my hero, carl.
speaker1: heroes ain't supposed to shake. i'm shakin', man, look at me.
speaker2: breathe, carl. four, nice, deep ones.
speaker2: anyone stops us going in, we're with the bowen-hamilton textile company. we have rug samples.
speaker1: rug samples.
speaker2: we are one-dimensional, boring peddlers of fine carpet, carl.

speaker1: hey, look who's here. 
speaker2: louis, my man, what's happenin'?
speaker3: clean ones?
speaker2: immaculate.
speaker3: what ya got there, seventy-five thousand?
speaker4: a hundred and ten. count it.
speaker5: have the girl count it, we can't sit around here countin' bonds, we got things to do here.

speaker1: f.b.i.! get your face on the floor! move! 
speaker2: slam dunk.
speaker1: beauty. beauty...
speaker3: christ, larry, what the fu-- larry. that's not even your name, is it? what's your real name, you scumbag?
speaker2: don't have one, carl. i have a number, man. just like the numbers on those treasury checks. you stole from your own country, carl. shame on you.
speaker1: sugar ray.
speaker1: they want ya home. upstairs wants to see ya.
speaker1: make sure ya spell my name right.
speaker3: we just spent four months together... i thought he was my friend... what the man? he had dinner at my mother's. camera flashes at him, an agent on either side, striking a natural pose.

speaker1: sa levoi, sir. 
speaker2: please.
speaker2: ray...
speaker3: mister tully.
speaker2: do you want a coffee?
speaker3: no. no, no. thank you.
speaker2: levoi, cooch. raymond levoi, criminal division.
speaker4: oh, yeah -- right.
speaker2: ray this is --
speaker5: frank couture.
speaker2: that's right.
speaker6: hello, ray.
speaker3: it's an honor.
speaker2: ray, we're taking you off the street. we need you out in south dakota.
speaker3: south dakota... did i do something unsatisfactory, sir?
speaker4: no, ray. you're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother.
speaker2: interesting bloodline you have, ray. french, scots-irish, italian, ...and one-eighth american indian.
speaker4: sioux indian, right?
speaker3: i'm not that sure. yeah, i think --
speaker2: -- yes, teton sioux. father's side.
speaker2: ray, there's been a homicide out in an area known as the badlands. indian reservation.
speaker4: it's not the first. there's been several. and our field office in rapid city is getting a lot of heat... none of the investigations have turned up jack
speaker2: the main problem is, ray, these people are extremely distrustful of outsiders, non-indians. relations have not been amicable.
speaker4: different culture. hard to penetrate. the indians don't like white cops poking around. and that's why we're in a position where we have to bring in an american indian agent.
speaker2: with an indian representative out there, we hope to keep hostilities dormant; this is a cointelpro, selective operations unit, and it'll be easier on agent couture if you can gain the people's trust and maybe --
speaker3: woh, excuse me, sir... i see what you're saying... i've got a little indian blood, that's true. but -- i am not an... an indian. i can't just go in and --
speaker2: -- your father was part sioux.
speaker3: i didn't know him, sir. he passed away when i was six.
speaker4: seven.
speaker4: don't worry about it, ray. as long as the people have proof that we sent them one of their own, no one's gonna ask you to weave baskets or make it rain.

speaker1: eight murders in less than a year. all of them indian. all of them unsolved. is the law a non-entity out here or what? 
speaker2: those are two agents who went into a reservation a few years ago to serve a warrant. they were executed at close range. that one there is a police officer killed by the mohawks up in canada more recently.
speaker1: jesus...
speaker2: the agents who have worked out here say its like going into nam. unfamiliar terrain, foreign language, foreign customs... and you never know when you might walk into a few rounds. they hold a lot of old anger for the white man out here.
speaker1: were you in nam?
speaker2: airborne. that's where they used to get us agents from. now we get 'em from carnegie-melon, ivy league. accountants and computer whiz-kids. yuppies with guns. that's scary
speaker1: not as scary as a hoover man with a computer.
speaker2: hey, hey, hey. j. edgar would've loved you. he'd love anybody who joined the bureau to, what was it? "to enforce the laws of my country and protect her interests"?
speaker1: you crashed my file?
speaker2: no. i consulted it. we're going into indian country, i wanna know what kind of individual is covering my ass. don't you?
speaker1: you've been in the bureau for thirty years. you survived the hoov, the black panthers and abscam. i don't see any bullet holes. that's good enough for me.

speaker1: who found him? 
speaker2: indian kids. hunting fossils.
speaker1: okay. i think agent levoi and i can proceed from here. what are your call signals?
speaker3: px-10 and 11. anything we can do to help you out, just radio.
speaker1: good. thanks, guys.
speaker4: leo fast elk... thirty seven... single... member of the tribal council.
speaker1: looks like fast elk wasn't fast enough to outrun that load. what do you make of the damage?
speaker4: six rounds. 357.
speaker1: that's what it looks like, doesn't it? but that's what a ten gauge, choke-bored, shotgun will look like when it hits your lower back from five feet away.
speaker4: somebody was serious about doing this guy, that's for sure.
speaker1: ray.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker1: taking ol' leo somewhere?
speaker2: leo's been out here too long, man. i'm taking him to ceremonial burial.
speaker3: this is a restricted area.
speaker1: check him out, ray.
speaker1: nice piece. you come back here to cover your tracks, geronimo? what's your name?
speaker2: it ain't geronimo.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: i think maybe you guys got off the wrong exit, yeah? this is the bear creek indian reservation.
speaker1: i know where i am. i'm on federal land, doing a federal investigation, and if you don't wanna cooperate you can take a ride in a federal car, and spend the rest of the day in a little room, answering federal questions. it's your call. who are you?
speaker2: i'm a full blood oglala sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
speaker1: you're a wise-ass. ray check his wallet.
speaker3: i did.
speaker1: who the is he?
speaker3: -- a cop.
speaker3: walter crow horse. tribal police.
speaker1: he's a cop.
speaker2: we got the wire ya was comin'. you're the indian official, yeah?
speaker1: no. no, that's ray, here. ray, uh... ray... little weasel.
speaker2: leo's gotta get to burial, brother. he's gotta make the journey.
speaker1: what journey?
speaker2: tell him, ray.
speaker3: leo has to take the journey, cooch.
speaker1: we'll have to give leo a refund. because he's gotta go to the m.e. in case you don't know, officer, violation of the major crimes act on --
speaker2: -- an indian reservation is within the jurisdiction of the federal bureau of intimidation. i know that.
speaker1: good. thank you.
speaker2: i said when can leo be taken to ceremony?
speaker3: after we've completed our investigation.
speaker2: that's a nice suit.
speaker1: somebody must be doing something somewhere in your jurisdiction, officer crow foot.
speaker2: you ain't gonna cut his hands off and send 'em to washinton, are ya? they done that to one of our girls once. leo did quillwork, he's gonna need his hands.
speaker3: leo's gonna need his hands, cooch. he does quillwork.
speaker1: i think leo's retired from quillwork for the moment.
speaker2: respect the dead, hoss. because when --
speaker1: -- did you understand me when i said that --
speaker2: -- violation of the major crimes act on an indian reservation is within the jurisdiction of the federal bureau of instigation. i know that.
speaker1: goodbye.
speaker1: what the you doing?!
speaker2: his mother needs a piece of his hair. it's for the keeping of the souls ceremony. has to be kept for four days.
speaker1: keeping of the souls. do they still burn their dead or something?
speaker3: beats the outta me.

speaker1: sorry, ray. you're gonna have to wait in the car. i'll bring you out a cheeseburger. 
speaker2: hey!
speaker3: you made it. was-te.
speaker1: you must be... president clear bone.
speaker3: clear moon. moon. you must be the sioux.
speaker1: no. that's ray here. ray...
speaker3: it's about time they sent us one of our own. was-te.
speaker3: things are no good here. it is like war zone. we need an official who understands what is good for the indian people. who knows indian way.
speaker4: i thought we were staying on the reservation.
speaker3: yes. rooms thirteen and fourteen are on indian land.
speaker4: i see.
speaker3: are you hungry? i have some nice raw kidney in the truck.
speaker4: oh, i'm set, sir. i'm set.
speaker1: he's starving, mr. clear moon. get him some raw kidney. he hasn't had any indian food in days...

speaker1: where you goin'? back to the res? 
speaker1: what ya doin'? you drunk?

speaker1: what's goin' on here? 
speaker1: watch out now, he wants a kiss, ray, wants a kiss --
speaker1: go ahead, skin, get your back on your sacred land. get outta here.
speaker1: get outta here. drive.

speaker1: so what type of salesmen are you gentlemen anyway? 
speaker2: liquor. we heard they like their drink on the reservation, and we were gonna see if we couldn't unload some surplus on the way to nebraska.
speaker3: now keep that between us, dennis, cuz i don't know what kinda johnny law they got here.
speaker1: hey, brooks, come over here. i want you to meet a coupla fellas from denver.
speaker1: liquor salesmen. be nice to them, maybe they'll give you a sample of some of that gin you like. he likes that russian that --
speaker4: they ain't liquor salesmen. they're

speaker1: brooks, what's a perceptive fellow like you, doing in a joint like this? let me buy you a glass of some of that russian you like. 
speaker2: fbi? what you investigatin'?
speaker1: a murder. on the reservation.
speaker2: again. figures, man.
speaker3: you'll never find out who did it.
speaker1: you underestimate me, brooks.
speaker3: no. you underestimate these grass niggers. they're killing each other. that's all they do. get drunk and kill each other. then cover for each other. who gives a really as long as they stay on their reservation. you ask me, the government shouldn't care one particle.
speaker2: you know how in your big cities, you got your and you got your puerto ricans? well out here we got indians. that's just the way it is.
speaker1: the only good indian is a dead indian, does that old adage still hold true out here?
speaker3: that set-to you saw out front, was nothin' more than a message we were sendin' to the that are divertin' water from the river.
speaker2: we got rights. we got a ranch just up here.
speaker4: did any of you gentlemen know leo fast elk?
speaker3: you fellas are here to investigate a indian crime, you should keep to indian land, and talk to them, not us. but you wanna drink here and shoot stick here, that's your right, and we respect that. come on, son, we're up on the table.
speaker2: you fellas wanna play doubles?

speaker1: water. worth killing for out here, i'd think. 
speaker2: get the plate numbers off everyone of these cars.
speaker1: i already did.
speaker1: couldn't sleep.
speaker2: good.
speaker3: -- out here we got our indians. and that's the way it is.
speaker2: by the time you get to the main village, sun'll be up. i want you to fraternize. socialize. penetrate. infiltrate. eat some raw kidney, and get these indians talking. i'm gonna powwow with big chief clear moon and find out more about leo.
speaker1: done.

speaker1: good morning. i'm looking for hobert- buffalo-dreaming... hobert standing-buffalo-that-walks-- the door closes. locks. 
speaker1: --dreamer.
speaker1: sir?

speaker1: ray little weasel. fbi. i like the way ya sneaked up on me. must be indian. 
speaker2: what are you --
speaker1: watch out!
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: you're steppin' on sign.
speaker2: hey. hey, you, listen up --
speaker1: -- leo wasn't killed here. he was dumped here. out of a vehicle. bald tread. muffler held on with baling wire.
speaker1: the man you want... stepped outta the car, dragged leo out, laid him down. then walked over here and made a circle in the earth with a stick. i can't find the stick. he stuck an eagle plume in the circle, got back in his car, dustin' his own prints with a pine bough for about six feet, but he missed a print, right here, see. he got in his car and went hell- bent-for-holy-sunday outta here. he ditched that pine bough three miles across the flat, in the little bear river, it floated down to thundershield gap. the car hit paved road, and was outta here.
speaker1: the killin' was done where leo's mother lives. but he was driven here into these badlands.
speaker1: big sonuvabuck. based on the depth of that print, pressure releases... i'd say he goes two-ten, two-fifteen --
speaker2: 
speaker1: -- well, maybe two-seventeen.
speaker2: you're trying to tell me you can read all that from a track?
speaker1: no. not just a track. you gotta listen to the trees, man. to the leaves. to this sand, you fbi's kicked all up. you gotta listen to the earth.
speaker2: is that right? well, listen to this: drag your ass. this is a restricted area.
speaker1: no, this is the home of the oglala sioux and i want the who killed leo. whether you get him or i get him, i just want him. shit's been goin' on too long.
speaker2: you've got no jurisdiction.
speaker1: you got no know-how. about indian way. or about jack for that matter.
speaker2: maybe you're not aware of this, crow horse, but i just flew in from a place called the twentieth century where we have such things as electrostatic tracking methods, psycholingusitics, dna fingerprinting; i don't have to crawl around with the scorpions and talk to the trees to get answers. leo was killed right here.
speaker1: go back to the m.e., take a look inside leo's exit wounds and tell me how chicken feed got in there. trust me, there ain't chickens in the badlands. his mother's place is --
speaker2: -- his mother never lived here. she was from up in north dakota.
speaker1: i'm talkin' his spiritual mother. maisy blue legs.
speaker2: his spiritual mother...
speaker1: to us indians, our spiritual relatives are as close as family. i've got seven mothers on this reservation. sisters. brothers. you ain't one of them.
speaker2: thank now listen to me, i'm giving you a break. but if my partner finds out you're here, you're gonna be reading rat tracks in sioux falls maximum security.
speaker1: easy. easy... i'm goin'.
speaker1: hey, little weasel.
speaker1: you weigh one sixty-three, yeah? not a beer drinker. you're one of these tofu and pilaf characters. pack your gun, under your coat -- left shoulder. but you got backup; a little .32, .38 maybe, in a ankle holster that gives you a right foot drag, shoes are too tight at the toe but, man, they look cool. and that's what counts.
speaker2: crow horse.
speaker2: you.

speaker1: mrs... blue legs? can i ask you a few questions -- 
speaker2: -- go away. leave us alone...
speaker1: ma'am, please --
speaker1: mrs. blue legs. i'm indian.
speaker1: i'm sioux.
speaker1: yeah, right.
speaker1: mrs. blue legs! it's okay!
speaker3: x21, give me a 20.
speaker1: black tail district, x22. you ready for this? leo wasn't killed in the badlands. i... i found the location.
speaker4: maisy blue legs place?
speaker1: how'd you know?
speaker4: i got one up on ya.
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker4: i've got the doer. i know who he is.
speaker4: meet me at base. over.
speaker1: cooch. you're my hero.

speaker1: who is he? 
speaker2: one of the leaders of the warriors of all red nations. militant organization. he hands an open file over to ray.
speaker2: the progressive indians don't like them because they want everybody to go back to the old indian ways, and the old way indians don't like them because they use violence to get attention.

speaker1: white eagle feather through the circle. that's their symbol. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: they obviously wanted it to be known that they offed leo. some kind of statement.
speaker2: jimmy looks twice put leo's head through a glass door of the tribal offices three months ago. and threatened him several times since. president clear moon and the regional fbi feel he made good on that threat.
speaker1: i'd just like five minutes alone with the who hung that flag upside down.
speaker2: easy, cowboy. no vendettas on my ship. now: remember what i told you about nam? watch the grass, watch the trees, watch the house, be on your toes, and if we get committed, don't hesitate to empty that
speaker1: alright. alright.
speaker2: it's show time.

speaker1: on the ground. 
speaker2: mitakue oyasin!
speaker3: this is the fbi! come on out of there nice and slow. let's move it! hands on your head!
speaker1: hands on your head, sir. come on, come on...
speaker4: what are you doing?
speaker3: james looks twice?
speaker4: that's right. what are you doing here? this is a religious ceremony you're desecrating.
speaker1: we're fbi, james. we just need to ask you a few questions.
speaker4: we are in the middle of a sweat lodge ceremony. do you drag people out of your churches when they're in the middle of prayer?
speaker3: let's take a walk, jimmy. come on.
speaker1: go ahead. you can all go home.
speaker3: we just wanna take a look around your place, jimmy. we're not here to bust your balls.

speaker1: what's this about? 
speaker2: your good friend leo fast elk.
speaker1: you think i killed him? cuz he was an apple? well, let me tell you something about leo, man --
speaker2: -- don't "man" me, jimmy. where's the key?
speaker2: ray, use the federal master key.
speaker1: no. don't do that. don't deface the property, man. the key's in there.
speaker1: inside... in the coffee can.
speaker2: there's no coffee can in --
speaker2: jesus... jesus...
speaker2: get him...

speaker1: assault on federal officers. suspect has left the area. one officer down. issue a fugitive alert immediately. over. 
speaker2: has the officer been shot, x-22?
speaker1: no, the officer's been bitten by a badger, okay? get a fugitive alert now! over.

speaker1: you're an easy man to track, ray. ya walk like a penguin with a hard-on. 
speaker2: is that right? what are the trees saying today?
speaker1: they're sayin' that nobody's gonna talk to you cuz they don't give away one of their own. but they did say there's somebody way across the little walking river who wants to talk to you.
speaker1: he sent me to find ya. he says he's got information.
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: grandpa samuel reaches. heavy duty medicine. 
speaker2: medicine. as in medicine man?
speaker2: why does he wanna see me?
speaker1: good question. hardly sees anybody anymore. hasn't left this place in twenty years. did you bring some tobacco?
speaker1: when you go see an elder, you always bring some tobacco as a gift.

speaker1: what did he say? 
speaker2: he wants to know if you ever watch the cookie monster. he says the cookie monster is not to be trusted -- a trickster.
speaker2: he says there's something wrong with big bird -- he's crazy, he says you stopped the inipi ceremony last night...?
speaker2: but he is not unhappy with you because he knows you.
speaker1: he knows me?
speaker2: he says he saw you in a vision some time ago.
speaker2: i guess he had this vision some time ago, in the moon of the popping trees -- uh, back in the winter. he says you come from wasi'cu city in the east but that your people... way back... are of the minniconjou sioux. but you yourself don't know that.
speaker2: he says he knew you'd be coming to bear creek. he was told. it is the will of tunkasilia -- the grandfather that you come here. he says let's smoke the caanunpa the sacred pipe, symbol of truth. so that there will be no lies between us.
speaker1: what's he smoke in that?
speaker2: sacred herbs. tobacco. don't worry, we don't smoke no mexican agriculture in the pipe. that's a white man's myth. this is a sacrament.
speaker3: mltaku oyasin.
speaker2: you don't smoke with him, it means you're hiding something.
speaker2: he says wakan. sacred. five hundred year old turtleshell rattle, passed down from the grandfathers. heavy duty.
speaker2: he says, it is good. the spirits are here. the spirits want to know what you're doing here?
speaker1: tell him i'm trying to find the man who murdered leo fast elk. ask him if he knows where he is.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: he said he doesn't know.
speaker1: he just did the gettysburg address in sioux. what did he say?
speaker2: uh... grandpa likes to trade; no one stops by here without gettin' stuck in the old indian barter. he, uh... he likes your shades.

speaker1: what was he saying? 
speaker2: why should i tell you.
speaker1: because he was talking to me.
speaker1: does he know something?
speaker2: the old man saw an owl. over there in the dry wash. last week.
speaker1: and...
speaker2: he saw an owl.
speaker1: so what?
speaker2: the owl is a messenger. when one shows itself to a sioux... it means someone's gonna die. the owl told him about leo.
speaker1: the owl told him about leo. that's incredible. i guess we just broke the back of this investigation, didn't we? evidence doesn't get any harder than that -- not for my money. is there anyway we can seduce this owl into federal court?
speaker2: he also said "listen to the water."
speaker1: listen to the water. listen to the owl. he also said, don't trust the cookie monster.
speaker2: go back to your dna finger-printin'.

speaker1: what is that that you honor there, uncles? after all the wasi'cu country has done to you, after all he still does to you, you honor that flag?! that flag has been desecrated by the united states, because they have not honored what that flag represents! 
speaker1: to them, we are the bank of america. whenever they get into a little difficulty, they go to the bank, withdraw a little land, withdraw a little oil --
speaker2: the four fbi agents stand, watching.
speaker3: okay. here we go.
speaker4: who's this guy?
speaker5: anderson chasing hawk. second in command behind jimmy.

speaker1: magedelana eagle bear. eagle's claws and a bear's balls. 
speaker2: she keeps an ar-15 assault rifle in her truck. and she'll use it.
speaker3: mr. clear moon.
speaker4: our police are afraid of them. please get them out of here.
speaker4: they're going to kill me next. that's what i hear. these new indians are destroying everything. our people are a quiet people.
speaker3: they can lead us to jimmy. just let them go. we're tightening the net on him. we know he's on the reservation.
speaker4: help us.
speaker5: where's jimmy? we thought he'd be dancing today.
speaker6: are you the washington redskin?
speaker7: say hello to richard yellow bird, ray.
speaker8: ray, get to jimmy's place and keep it tight. i'm gonna get a tail on his warriors.

speaker1: x22. read. 
speaker2: go ahead, ray.
speaker1: i have a pick-up truck. no plates. subject -- indian -- entering suspect's house. over.
speaker2: okay, ray. i'm coming in. if he starts to leave the area, move in. and hold him. over.

speaker1: fbi, freeze, -- drop it, drop it! 
speaker1: turn around, put your hands on the roof of the truck.
speaker2: you're the indian fbi.
speaker1: that's right. turn around.
speaker2: the people are glad they sent you. they usually send in guys who come at ya with highbeams, screamin' "drop it, motherfucker", stick a gun in your face, frisk ya down. even if ya got a child with ya. no, it's good to have ya. it's gonna be was-te times on the res.
speaker2: i was gonna warn ya about messin' with somebody's medicine bundle but i forgot you know all about that stuff.
speaker1: this jimmy's?
speaker2: you're not gonna catch him. he can shape-shift into different animals. bear. elk. porcupine.
speaker1: is that like an hereditary thing, magdelana, or can one take classes?
speaker2: jimmy didn't kill leo. why do you wanna do this?
speaker1: he tried to kill him twice before. that's a good place to start don't ya think? leo was on the other side, wasn't he?
speaker2: -- leo was an apple, that's right. red on the outside, white on the inside. and jimmy hated him. kicked his a coupla times. but he didn't kill him.
speaker1: who did?
speaker2: you're the fbi. that's your job, isn't it? ya know how many of our warrior brothers got killed out here? i never saw any investigating then. why now? what's going down here?
speaker1: a fugitive alert for a murder suspect. before somebody else gets a shotgun blast in the spine.
speaker2: try the fort laramie treaty. all over again.
speaker1: look. you and i can stand here in a culture clash til the sun comes up, talking about what's right and what's wrong. you're from the reservation. it's a different world.
speaker2: i'm from minneapolis. fifth street. i did four years at dartmouth before i ever set foot on this res. so i know about the other world, ray.
speaker2: are you gonna keep that medicine bundle or are you gonna respect its power?
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: when you see jimmy, tell him the sooner he turns himself back into a human being and gives himself in... the sooner we back off this reservation. okay?
speaker2: grandpa reaches says you come from heavy indian blood. i used to think grandpa was gettin' senile. now i know he is.
speaker1: move it, magdelana.
speaker3: ray, you alright?
speaker4: what do we got, ray?
speaker1: it was just eagle bear. i questioned and released her.
speaker3: what'd she say?
speaker1: she talks a lot of we're not doing our job. jimmy's innocent. "what's the fbi really doing here." some about the fort laramie treaty.
speaker1: she took something from the house. what she called a medicine bundle. most likely jimmy's.
speaker3: let's see it.
speaker1: i gave it back to her.
speaker4: why?
speaker1: if it is jimmy's, she's taking it to him. we'll have a runner. but i borrowed a little mojo...
speaker3: way to go, raymond. miles, take that to lab. sherman, i want you to go back to base and produce some written material. something that indicates that our girl maggie is leaking information to us. and make sure that material finds its way into the hands of the warrior movement.
speaker3: you gentlemen missed that medicine basket. go back through the house, and make sure you missed nothing else. and lay some wire, too. let's do it.
speaker3: that's good work, ray. let the salmon run. let 'em run upriver.
speaker1: why we setting eagle bear up as an informant?
speaker3: her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. the warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and jimmy loses his support. ray nods, impressed.
speaker3: her oil pan is shot.
speaker1: cooch. what's the fort laramie treaty?
speaker3: i don't know. you tell me. you're the indian.
speaker3: get a tail on her, ray.
speaker1: cooch. where the did they send us?
speaker3: a long way from home. you be careful out there.

speaker1: don't be mad. that was just an old traditional gesture that means hello, how are you. 
speaker2: i see. forgive my cultural ignorance.
speaker2: have a nice day.
speaker1: jimmy didn't do it, ray. i checked it out. you can stop taggin' my sister.
speaker2: she's your sister?
speaker3: spiritual sister.
speaker2: gotchya. we just nailed a genetic match between the eagle feather left at the murder site and one in jimmy's medicine bundle. it came from a white eagle. same bird.
speaker1: so did this one. wambli is a rare and sacred creature. when someone finds a dead one, the feathers get around the res. we share everything. a lot of power in the eagle feathers. but you think that's too, don't --
speaker2: -- leo fast elk was sitting in the outhouse at maisy blue legs when a car pulled into the yard. he came out, approached the vehicle then saw that the man behind the wheel was jimmy. he tried to get back into the trailer, but the car came highballing at him. he started running for the open grass. with the car moving, jimmy hung his shotgun out the window, took aim -- missed once, hitting the -- fired again, and severed leo's spine. leo fell, rolled, and came to a stop in the grass. and some chicken feed. stale chicken feed with four days mold. electromagnetic printing.
speaker1: was-te. 'cept for one thing. jimmy looks twice was nowhere near there. ya see, when jimmy was twelve years old, his mother and father was killed in a car wreck right down there near elk mountain.
speaker2: i don't see the connection.
speaker1: the connection is, it did a head number on him. he's petrified of cars. won't drive. i've known him all my life, and he's never gotten behind the wheel of a vehicle. he rides passenger and he rides horses, and that's it. the man that shot leo down was behind the wheel of a moving car.
speaker2: that's not solid.
speaker1: you want solid? that one, single, print he left in the badlands -- the one the fbi missed and then stepped all over -- it belongs to a man who walks heels first. like a white man. jimmy has a serious ind'n walk -- ball of the foot first. the man who murdered leo walked like a wasi'cu.
speaker2: you're saying a white guy did it...
speaker1: when leo was dumped out there in the badlands, he was dropped on his back. our man made an effort to turn him over, onto his face. it's an old ind'n belief that if a dead man is turned face down, his spirit won't leave. and in the killer's case, it won't come back and jump all over his that's an ind'n thing a white man wouldn't know.
speaker1: and that's the way it is. write it down.
speaker1: you laugh all you want, breed. sunset tonight, i get my man.
speaker2: alright, crow horse. i'm listening. i'm listening to the trees, to the stones. who is it?
speaker1: if i know.
speaker1: but the old one. he did a yuwipi ceremony last night.
speaker2: the old man? he's gonna tell you who killed leo?
speaker1: go catch jimmy, ray. really. he's gettin' away. go ahead, go get him. i'm late.
speaker2: hey. hey, those are my sunglasses you're wearing.
speaker1: grandpa traded with me. goodbye.

speaker1: he says, back behind red deer table, where the elk-people-used-to-live... there are strange creatures from another world who eat stones... and who will kill anyone who crosses into this place. 
speaker1: he says, in the yuwipi ceremony last night, he saw you... going back into the land beyond red deer table. i was with you. but that was all the spirits let him see so he doesn't know if you were killed or not. but he thinks you probably were.
speaker1: go to the land where the elk-people- used-to-live and you will find the answers you came here looking for. but you must go as two. that is the vision. i have spoken. and this is so.
speaker1: he wants to trade. he likes your watch.
speaker2: i can't do that, it's a rolex.
speaker1: a what?
speaker2: i'm sorry, this is -- -- this is very, very expensive. it's -- tell him this is an expensive watch.
speaker1: he says, you need to go on indian time. he says your watch is ruining your life anyway.

speaker1: red deer table, ray. 
speaker2: don't tell me: heavy duty.
speaker1: heavy, heavy duty. taku wakan. wanagi spirits. it's one of those few places we'd never go to as kids. still don't. some of the old people say crazy horse is buried back there. we have to go ray. together. like his vision.
speaker2: walter. when i fill out my 302, do i say that evil spirits are killing everybody on the reservation?
speaker1: ray --
speaker2: -- no. no offense to the old man. i appreciate you trying to help. but i put my on the line coming out here, man.
speaker1: what'd you expect to hear?
speaker2: not native american myths and legends. i'm with the fbi, walter, remember? not national geographic.
speaker1: what you call myths, we call our history.
speaker2: it's not real.
speaker1: what's real to you? wall street? capital hill? now they are myths.
speaker2: i can't be dicking around here. that's all i'm saying. i don't carry crystals, i don't wanna come back in another life. i just wanna do my job, and do it right, and get the outta here.
speaker1: you ain't no indian. you're a sal mineo indian.
speaker3: knock it off!
speaker3: will ya knock it off? you're actin' like a couple of old women.
speaker3: for cryin' out loud. knock it off.
speaker2: he speaks english.
speaker1: only when he's really off.
speaker3: come inside. watch tv.
speaker1: don't accuse nothin' of not bein' real, little weasel. cuz the only thing around here that ain't real is you.
speaker2: take care of yourself, walter.
speaker1: likewise.

speaker1: we've gotten word that jimmy has been trying to hook up with maggie eagle bear... but some of the warriors have been sending word to jimmy that she may be an fbi operative. so he doesn't know where to go. 
speaker2: bingo. it's working.
speaker3: he's out of room. all the reservation exits have been watchdogged. we got him. i give it twelve hours.
speaker4: well we better use those twelve hours to apprehend the right man.
speaker2: the right man? talk to me, ray.
speaker4: whoever dusted leo, dusted him from the driver's seat of a moving car then drove those eight miles to the badlands. jimmy looks twice has never been behind the wheel of a car. it's a known fact out here that he's petrified of driving. his parents were killed in a car wreck.
speaker3: that's not very solid.
speaker4: there was also a print found in the badlands that indicated diagetic locomotion. heels first. jimmy's walking pattern doesn't match. he has a distinct indian walk.
speaker5: indian walk? you been smoking hooch in the peace pipe, ray?
speaker4: they don't smoke hooch in the pipe, miles. they smoke something called kinickinick, it's like a tobacco.
speaker1: well, you're right about x21 being a washington redskin, that's for sure. what else, ray?
speaker2: you boys want a soda?
speaker5: oh, yeah, a coke. you buying?
speaker2: no, ray's buying. sherman? coke?
speaker3: oh... no. no, cooch, i'm working on a coffee here. indian walk?

speaker1: genetic ditto on evidence found at the site with evidence you found in his belongings. an incontrovertible motive. and definite footprints on jimmy looks twice at maisy blue legs house. 
speaker2: when did we get that?
speaker1: today. and now you -- there's a dog in the van --
speaker2: -- i know. i fed it, and i can't get rid of --
speaker1: you weren't sent here to go off on your own detail, ray. you were sent here to assist in a selective operations unit. these regional agents are inept -- that's why they were sent out here to the graveyard, to indian country. i need you behind me, ray. not pulling against me.
speaker2: i'm not trying to pull against you, cooch. i've just been having nightmares about the way leo was killed.
speaker1: your first homicide, that's gonna happen, ray...
speaker2: i just wanna make sure no one else gets done in that way because we were in bed with the wrong doer.
speaker1: ray. i never get into bed with somebody unless i know for sure. just the way i was raised.
speaker2: alright. alright...
speaker1: yeah, alright, alright -- you -- give a yuppie a badge and he wants to take over the world. go get a tail on eagle bear, and stay with her. cuz jimmy's gonna show. and i want you to make the collar.
speaker1: ray.
speaker1: i'll sleep around a little.
speaker2: thanks, cooch.
speaker1: and get rid of the dog.

speaker1: bastards... 
speaker2: all i could think of was... not here. i don't wanna eat it on an indian reservation, three thousand miles from home.
speaker1: he's out there. he's out there playing sitting bull with us. i want the so bad i'm getting a bleeding ulcer.
speaker2: it may have been maggie's way of saying "get off my ass."
speaker1: she's that subtle?
speaker2: eagle's claws and a bear's that's what her profile says.
speaker1: well, she's running now, too. these people like to run, don't --
speaker2: -- cooch. woh. stop.

speaker1: tread matches. it's the car. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: but this doesn't make any sense, ray. if it's just been sitting in this dry wash for seven days... why the didn't we find it?
speaker2: because this isn't a dry wash.
speaker2: it's the little walking river.
speaker2: and it was full of water when i drove by here three days ago. full. i mean... a river.
speaker1: the little walking river. you're right. this is part of it. so whoever sunk this car didn't compensate for drought. goddamn.
speaker2: listen to the water...

speaker1: agent little weasel, federal bura of your imagination. 
speaker2: christ. you're hammered. what are you doing?
speaker1: you're right about the old man. his power's long dried up. he's supposed to be a medicine man but he won't go see the people. he says we changed, and we don't listen. well, he don't go out and talk no more. i haven't had a drink in three years but i just turned my sobriety chip into that man behind the bar, and this hoss is gettin' watered.
speaker2: cut the you shouldn't be in here, man.
speaker1: cuz i'm a skin?
speaker2: cuz you're a cop.
speaker1: not no more.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: you tell me. you tell me who went to the b.i.a. -- bureau of indian annihilation and said i was messin' with your case, man. i don't give a about your case.
speaker2: and i don't give a about whether you wear a badge or not, crow horse, but i didn't cut you.
speaker1: still after jimmy?
speaker2: they found prints at blue legs' place.
speaker1: yeah. jimmy's prints are there. but they cross over benjamin black star's prints. and he wasn't there until six o'clock the mornin' after to get eggs from the chickens. so jimmy wasn't there til the next day. follow?
speaker1: look, man... you better bust jimmy and get out before somebody shoots up more than your car next time.
speaker2: next time i'll be ready. you get the word to who ever it is.
speaker1: i can't, hoss. i don't talk to fbi's.
speaker1: you think you was sent here cuz you're a good cop?
speaker2: no. i was sent here cuz i'm indian. and a good cop.
speaker1: you ever think that maybe you was sent here cuz the fbi's need one good reason to take out the entire warrior movement. and what better reason than one of their men, gettin' blown away on the res. a low-rent, expendable public servant sent in to take a bullet for his country.
speaker2: i'm sick of your --
speaker3: i'm sick of the two of ya timber spewin' off.
speaker1: sorry, we don't speak united states.
speaker4: yeah, well i do. get the up, and get the out or i'm gonna go out to my truck and come back with my hardware.
speaker2: woh, hold on there, jack, you're --
speaker4: -- don't "jack" me, squanto. i'll bury your lazy right here.
speaker4: i'm talkin' to --
speaker5: no! no, you holes! he ain't skin! he ain't skin!
speaker1: yeah he's in'dn. miniconjou sioux.
speaker4: you ain't indian?
speaker6: what's so funny?
speaker1: well, it's just that the cavalry used to always threaten the lakota. the cavalry ain't around anymore. the lakota still are.
speaker4: i got no trouble tellin' where you come from, fat red.
speaker7: sorry. on the house.

speaker1: no plates. no registration. serial numbers removed. and all prints washed off by the river. that's great. this is turning out to be a walk in the park, do you know that? 
speaker2: come back?
speaker1: never mind.
speaker2: ray. x22.
speaker1: i read, cooch.
speaker2: remember that upside down flag back at jimmy's house? somebody took it down.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: they took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the buffalo butte motel. your room.
speaker2: we traced the number of the truck that dumped it, and it belongs to one maggie sanders, also known as maggie eagle bear. she's been all over the res, riling up the traditionals, telling them not to break, and to keep jimmy in hiding. she's a problem now. and she's yours. get her off the reservation.

speaker1: are they all right under here? 
speaker2: two-hundred and sixty-seven men, women, old people. and little ones like you. many killed running along that road you see there.
speaker3: where were they runnin' to?
speaker2: a place called the stronghold. they died for a dream. but you live. you are their great-great grandchildren and you live. we have to honor their dream. of protecting the mother earth. and being proud of being indian.
speaker3: my mother told me that they call us indians cuz columbus was lookin' for india when he discovered our country.
speaker2: yeah, well, let me tell you something, henry: just be glad he wasn't looking for turkey.

speaker1: we're praying at the grave. do you wanna join us? a long silence. the voices carry in the wind. 
speaker2: no, maggie. but you're gonna have to join me for a ride. i'm taking you to rapid city.
speaker1: so much power. i see it in your eyes. this... hunger for power. or for what you think is power.
speaker2: you burned an american flag today. and left it for me...
speaker1: -- you desecrated it, it had to be burned.
speaker2: i desecrated it?
speaker1: you forced an innocent man to run like an animal. you've tried to poison my people's hearts against me with your manipulation, with letters i never wrote... you've been watching me eat, work, raise my family... wash myself in the river. and now you're here, arresting me at a sacred place. in your eyes, that's power.
speaker1: so i plant this tree for you. and i take all this stuff that you've laid on me and my people, and i put it in this hole with this pine cone. and i bury it. cuz ya know what it is, ray? and is fertilizer. and the mother will turn your lies into something that lives.
speaker1: that's what power is, in the indian way. take me to rapid, ray. i'm the enemy.
speaker2: if i told you... that i think jimmy's innocent... but i'm in over my head... would you believe me?
speaker1: see those black hills out there, ray? when the people lost the land in 1868, the government took everything but those hills. they allowed us to keep those black hills, to live there. signed a treaty. until they found gold. then they told us we had to leave because of national interest. they broke that treaty. anyone who fought or spoke out against it, wound up dead or in jail. and the people wound up here. on a reservation.
speaker1: while up there, in the black hills... they carved the faces of four presidents.
speaker1: your relatives must've taught you something.

speaker1: my father never told anybody he had indian blood. but he still used a few indian words around the house. he called me washee. said it meant... good boy. 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: wa-shee is like... a dumpling. like tallow we put in stew. i think he was calling you chubby boy.
speaker2: great.
speaker2: you ever see that car before?
speaker2: who's it belong to? maggie ignores him. ray studies her reaction.
speaker2: help me, maggie...
speaker2: i didn't see you today, maggie. goodbye.
speaker3: goodbye... wa-shee.

speaker1: anyone who fought or spoke out against it... wound up dead or in jail. ray looks out the window toward the monument. 
speaker1: that was 1868, maggie...

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker2: yeah. i... i fell asleep. i can't believe it. i --
speaker1: never turn your radio off! i thought i was gonna find you scalped! it!
speaker2: sorry, cooch. i lost eagle bear --
speaker1: -- never mind eagle bear. we've got jimmy nailed. let's go!

speaker1: where is he, sam? where's jimmy? 
speaker1: he's a medicine man, ray. the "spiritual leader" of the warriors. that right, sam?
speaker2: trailer's clean, let's go.
speaker1: you been the one making it rain like that, out there, sam?
speaker3: hey, put that down.
speaker1: can you make jimmy outrun an m-16, sam?
speaker3: sherman!

speaker1: brother, the old man told me about you. listen to me: what was leo trying to tell me? he wanted to meet me at maisy -- 
speaker2: save your speeches for prison, jimmy.
speaker3: that's one hard running indian.
speaker3: it's over, ray. i aged five years. but it's over. at least i'm gonna look like i'm ready for the advisory desk. let's go get a beer.
speaker4: look... i'm not who you think i am. i'm sorry.
speaker5: out back that way... is a placed called wounded knee.
speaker5: i was one years old there when our people were shot down. my mother hid me in the snow in a blanket. one of those killed was a holy man called wakiyan cante -- thunder heart. they killed him while he was running for the stronghold. it is his blood -- the same blood that spilled on the grass and snow at wounded knee -- that runs through your heart like a buffalo. ray frowns, disturbed by this story.
speaker5: thunder heart has come. sent here to a troubled place to help his people. that's what i am told. maybe you're right and i am mistaken. your mind is young, mine is old. if so, so be it. ho hecetu yelo. i'll speak no more.

speaker1: buffalo burgers and cold beer, raymond. don't worry about the sign out front... you don't have to be indian anymore. 
speaker1: you have a fever. you okay?
speaker1: listen: when we get back tomorrow, you're gonna find tully laying a promotion on you. s.a.c. he wants to prove that his yuppie agents are making good. he's offering you new york. tell him you want atlanta.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: cuz i want new york.
speaker2: cooch. they sent us out here because the place was being neglected. now, all of a sudden, there's two five man swat teams out there tonight. bell huey choppers flying all over the place. federal occupation to catch one guy. why, cooch? what's going on?
speaker1: national security, ray. get some sleep. tomorrow, we fly.

speaker1: i'm looking for richard yellow bird. 
speaker2: the washington redskin. thought you'd be gone by now.

speaker1: what ya want? 
speaker2: must be a getting around in that wheelchair. how long you been in it?
speaker1: since i got a iron pipe put across my knees, man. fight with three wasi'cus, ya know.
speaker2: at sioux falls pen?
speaker1: no, that was leavenworth. this -- was sioux falls. what ya want?
speaker2: leavenworth a tough joint?
speaker1: you ever try solitary confinement?
speaker2: no. can't say that i have, richard. richard do you know why i'm here?
speaker1: washington sent ya. i know that.
speaker2: yes, washington sent me, richard. they sent me here because this whole thing has been do you know what i mean when i say this whole thing has been fucked, richard?
speaker2: an arrangement was made between you... and us. do you remember that arrangement?
speaker1: i'm here, ain't i?
speaker2: not for long, richard. you got early parole under the stipulation that you would help us in a situation, and you didn't deliver.
speaker1: what the you talkin' about?
speaker2: get up out of the chair, richard.
speaker1: what's with you people? why do ya have to with my head all the time? i came through, man.
speaker2: get up out of the chair, and walk toward the backdoor, richard.
speaker1: i get thrown in solitary until i don't know my own name, and then you people tell me i can beat nine years if i help you. i helped you!
speaker2: get up!
speaker1: they said i'd never see fbi again, and i'm livin' with you i don't feed ya information on the warriors, it's back to the pen. i don't do this, back to the pen. your word against my word. against a con indian's word. i really got a chance, man, right?
speaker2: they sent me here, richard because they said you didn't hold up your end of the arrangement, and i have to transport you back to leavenworth.
speaker1: what the man? what do you people want? i did what you wasi'cu's told me to do.
speaker2: leo fast elk... is alive.
speaker1: no way. no way.
speaker2: how the do you know?
speaker1: i blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how i know! now you're gonna say i didn't, so you can throw me back in solitary?
speaker2: the men who came to see you at leavenworth. the one's who made the arrangement... who were they? maybe i can talk to them.
speaker1: miles. three other suits. that's all i know 'em as -- suits. were you there?
speaker2: you turned leo over on his face. but the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. it's out, and it knows.
speaker1: what do you know about spirits? you ain't no in'dn.
speaker2: leo knew something heavy and was trying to tell jimmy. but you must not know how serious it was or you would have delivered. do you realize what leo could have told jimmy?! do you?!
speaker1: i took him out before he got the chance. he didn't say nothin' about tashka sha. and now his spirit is in the dirt. forever.
speaker2: what's tashka sha, speak english, speak english!
speaker1: red deer table! what's with you, man?
speaker1: wait a minute. wait -- what are you doin'? you ain't a fbi. you ain't the law. let me see your -- ray snaps out his gun, straight-armed.
speaker2: i'm the law!
speaker2: keep talking, yellow bird...
speaker1: all i know... is i did what i did... and i ain't in solitary, gettin' pumped up with downer, gettin' beat to but i tell you what, suit. take me back. cuz i can't take this no more.
speaker1: man, i don't know who the i am no more.
speaker2: you and me both.

speaker1: maggie! 
speaker2: five-hundred year old turtleshell rattle...
speaker1: crow horse, listen --
speaker2: where's maggie? where'd ya take her.
speaker1: nowhere. i'm trying to find her.
speaker2: you got jimmy. let her go.
speaker1: crow horse, listen. you have to come with me.
speaker2: why? so you can get rid of me, too?
speaker1: no. so we can do what the old man said. red deer table, walter. we have to go.

speaker1: maybe the old man's visions are still strong. 
speaker2: do they come in dreams, these visions?
speaker1: oh yeah. dreams. sometimes durin' sickness. vision quest. sweat lodge. ya never know when.
speaker2: just before we caught jimmy... i had a dream that i was being chased. and i was running with other people. old- fashion indian people. i got shot in the back. like leo.
speaker1: where was this?
speaker2: at wounded knee. i mean, that's where i was, and that's where the dream was. why?
speaker1: you were running with the old ones. at the knee. heavy duty.
speaker2: well, it was just a dream, i --
speaker1: sonuvabuck! what's with you, man? who are you?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: nothin'. forget it.
speaker1: you had a vision. you had yourself a vision. a man waits a long time for a vision. might go his whole lifetime and never get one. and along comes some instant indian with a mastercard and brand-new shoes, has himself a vision.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: i'm a full-blood oglala.
speaker2: we've driven a long way. where is this place?
speaker1: maybe it was just a dream. ya know, just one of them, what do ya call 'em, fitful dreams?
speaker2: yeah. fitful dreams.
speaker1: you had a vision. you got sign from the old ones.
speaker2: what the do you want me to do?!
speaker1: stop.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: ain't prayer flags, that's for sure.

speaker1: oil? 
speaker2: uranium. test holes. somebody came in from the nebraska side, and did some shotgun testin'. they're gettin' ready to this baby dry.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: that's what we're doing here. national interest. national security. only this time it's not gold. it's uranium.
speaker1: we're standin' on broken treaty ground, ray. this ain't supposed to be here. it'll poison the water.
speaker2: leo knew about it. tried to tell jimmy, get the warriors involved.
speaker1: so they took care of leo.
speaker2: listen to the water... the river keeps goin' down then rising again.
speaker1: they're drainin' our water table. that's our life, man... ray is looking past crow horse at --

speaker1: looks down in disbelief. 
speaker1: no. no...

speaker1: this clear moon's house? 
speaker2: yeah. it's time to beat the drum. you better wait here. he don't trust the white man.

speaker1: alright. shit's comin' down. he's callin' council fire. all the old chiefs and the warriors, too. i gotta be at grandpa's place in two hours. we need to get the tribe together. we need to block this thing. 
speaker2: what we need... is richard yellow bird.

speaker1: i thought it was a rare case of a brother getting a break in the courts. we did an honorin' song for him and everything. 
speaker2: he's looking at a few hundred years in leavenworth. he's not gonna come out without a fight.

speaker1: x21. read. x21... 
speaker2: x21. come back.
speaker1: ray. what's your 20?
speaker2: reservation.
speaker1: what are you doing on the reservation?
speaker2: i'm on my way back in. over.
speaker3: ray. ray, don't let go now, man. ray...
speaker2: you go to the council fire. i'm going back in.
speaker3: ray.
speaker3: ray!

speaker1: couldn't sleep, ray? 
speaker2: no...
speaker2: i had to finish something with crow horse.
speaker1: that's where you were. you had to go back and have it out with the indian law...
speaker1: you hot head, we can get in trouble for that.
speaker2: why didn't you tell me what we were doing here?
speaker2: we're running a cover-up and you didn't --
speaker1: you ever put your hands on me again and you'll be doing the books for a baitshop in the everglades, mister.
speaker2: you didn't tell me about red deer table --
speaker1: -- what the is red deer table?
speaker2: what is it? it's genocide, that's what it is. it's a pay zone for some u.s. corporation and a dead zone for the people here. uranium, cooch.
speaker1: christ. what are you doing? what the were you doing out there?
speaker1: this was a selective operations unit, agent levoi. there is classified information pertaining to our national security. you don't question that, you don't go digging into that -- that's insubordination. christ --
speaker2: -- if they mine uranium there, these people will have no place left to go...
speaker1: we were sworn in on the constitution to protect federal matters, ray. i don't know about uranium, i don't know about red dog table -- all i know is we did our job. it's over.
speaker2: we neutralized anybody with a voice. leo, jimmy... eagle bear. anyone who was standing in the way of the land. is that it?
speaker1: no. we neutralized enemies of the united states. anti-american radicals who have killed federal officers out here!
speaker1: ray. you think i don't like the indians? not true. these were noble people but their day is gone. they're a conquered nation. they want all of america back but they can't even keep the garbage out of their own front yards. it's sad, ray. but it's just the way it is. we have to function as a colonial police force out here.
speaker3: you gentlemen ready -- hi, ray.
speaker1: yeah, we're ready.

speaker1: ah, there you are. the sioux. 
speaker1: you got the troublemakers off our land. good, was-te.

speaker1: crow horse! 
speaker2: ain't no council fire, brother. clear moon...
speaker1: i know. come on. we gotta get off the reservation or we're dead.
speaker2: hoka hey. it's a good day to die.
speaker1: bullshit, let's get outta here,
speaker2: grandpa...

speaker1: he's gone. 
speaker2: he hasn't left this place in twenty years. they got him.

speaker1: we have a renegade agent, cooch? he gets off the reservation... 
speaker2: -- he's not getting off the reservation.

speaker1: they got us sealed. what are we gonna do? 
speaker2: we're going for the stronghold.
speaker3: ray. can you hear me? you are there's no way out of this. if you won't listen to your own laws, then listen to this: this is president clear moon. this nation does not want your sympathy. you cannot use this reservation as a sanctuary. stop where you are now.
speaker3: whatever you are trying to do is futile, raymond. you have nothing. nothing. ray picks up the mic as he cranes to keep an eye on the rearview.
speaker2: yellow bird... is gonna sing.
speaker4: how the do you know? i blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how i know. and now you're gonna say i didn't and put me back in solitary?! ray keeps the tape running into the radio as he drives through rugged badlands. crow horse, stunned by the voice, eyes ray as the tape rolls.

speaker1: walter. 
speaker2: that's it. the stronghold. get us in there, we got a chance.
speaker1: we're in there. we're in there --

speaker1: come on, ray. come forward. 
speaker2: no way, cooch.

speaker1: you're right, cooch. it's over. 
speaker2: all the exits are blocked. there's two more fed cars tryin' to get in. and some press.
speaker3: ray...
speaker1: let the press through.

speaker1: the people are already talkin' about their vote for a new tribal prez. they wanna vote for jimmy. 
speaker2: what about the water...
speaker1: you bought her some time, kola. ain't never gonna be over... but you bought her some time.
speaker2: some indian time?
speaker1: indian time.
speaker1: where ya gonna go, ray?
speaker2: i'll have to see what the visions say about that one.
speaker1: you didn't have another vision...
speaker1: yeah, right here.
speaker2: you take care.
speaker1: if you ever need a place to come back to and listen to the trees a little... we'll be here.
speaker1: ain't no word in sioux for goodbye.

speaker1: where the elders sit, watching the dust blow. 
speaker2: we will be here.

