speaker1: where is it? 
speaker2: leave me alone.
speaker1: you've found it, haven't you?
speaker2: you.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker2: i warned you about that cheerful
speaker3: sorry. i'm working on it.
speaker3: what's the word?
speaker2: friend here did a half-gainer with a firebird tuck from the third floor.
speaker3: jumper?
speaker2: not unless he decided not to bother opening the window first.
speaker3: drugs? alcohol?
speaker2: well, he wasn't exactly in a condition to walk a chalk line when we got here. you're welcome to try and smell his breath if you like, that is if you can find the mouth.
speaker3: ghouls been by?
speaker2: on their way. willie promises a white paper tomorrow. or wednesday, depending on his golf game.
speaker3: firebird driver?
speaker2: mr. jiminez. was taking a short cut to his job at a packing plant on san pedro. first thing he remembers about the deceased is several vital organs bouncing off his windshield.
speaker3: have you had him walk a chalk line?
speaker2: he's straight. shook up some.
speaker3: anything on him?
speaker2: no wallet, license, nothing. he is missing one or two things, though.
speaker3: like?
speaker2: his eyes.
speaker3: along with everything else.
speaker2: we've found everything else -- and what fun that was, let me tell you -- but the eyes are still awol. might just be stuck in the radiator grill. little weird though.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: both popping out together like that. worth a page in my scrapbook.
speaker3: who's the room registered under?
speaker2: john smith.
speaker3: anything interesting inside?
speaker2: there are, what an intelligent, experienced detective like yourself could possibly construe as signs of a struggle.
speaker2: naturally nobody saw or heard anything.
speaker3: in such a fine establishment as this?
speaker2: ku san's on fourteenth is still open for another hour. whatd'ya say we pull out the 'ol "suicide" rubber stamp and get some lunch. rancid chow mein and watered beer for under three bucks.
speaker3: there's glass in the carpet.
speaker2: that usually happens when you break a window.
speaker3: it's on the inside.
speaker3: where's chimney rock?
speaker2: arizona desert, i think. which is exactly where i'm going to be in two years, three months.
speaker3: and give up all this?
speaker2: you're breaking my heart.

speaker1: hey bright eyes, what's the deal being out here all alone without a coat? 
speaker2: someone's here.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: pig out on all the cake?
speaker1: oh, there might be one, tiny, skinny piece left, but you're gonna have to race me for it.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker2: ha!
speaker1: you little sneak!

speaker1: how's it going? 
speaker2: i was just looking for my "suicide" rubber stamp.
speaker1: sorry about leaving you without a partner. everything's up in the air till the commission settles their manpower budget.
speaker2: i'm okay. dagget... it's done already? must have rained over the golf course this morning. i'll be right over.

speaker1: hey, willie, sorry to hear about the weather. 
speaker1: should i bother sitting?
speaker2: sit.
speaker2: where would you like me to start?
speaker1: i think we can skip the cause of death.
speaker2: all right. to begin with, your man has no eyes.
speaker1: weren't stuck in the radiator grill?
speaker2: no, he never had any eyes. we checked the sockets. there's no optic nerve, muscle pores, loose viscus, nothing.
speaker1: huh.
speaker2: we also did a toxicology on his blood: high sodium, elevated selenium, no floating cholesterol platelets, trace ammonia.
speaker1: something wrong with that?
speaker2: no, it's actually pretty common -- for an aborted fetus.
speaker1: i should have listened to burrows...
speaker2: we also did a bone section. wasn't that much trouble since most of them were sticking out of his chest anyway.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: when babies grow up their bones get larger by adding calcium layers over the interior haversham canals. child growth isn't uniform though, comes in spurts that always leave growth rings in the bone. everybody has them -- except your man. that would, to a hasty observer, seem to indicate he had never been a child.
speaker1: i assume you, a cautious and learned observer, of course have an explanation.
speaker2: not even remotely. want to hear the last one?
speaker1: not even remotely.
speaker2: he's a hermaphrodite. -- has both male and female organs.
speaker1: think of the possibilities.
speaker2: yeah, you can be impotent and frigid all at the same time -- they don't normally work.
speaker1: well, i'd love to say thank you, but --
speaker2: oh, i also have a bonus prize for you.
speaker2: found this sealed in his coat lining.
speaker1: it's a bible.
speaker2: a pretty old one, i think.
speaker2: we checked it out inside. thought there might be a name or fingerprint somewhere. all we found was a curled page marking the fourteenth chapter of st. john's revelations.
speaker1: there is no fourteenth chapter to revelations.
speaker2: maybe this is the teacher's edition.
speaker1: can i keep this awhile?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: can you sit on all this a few days, willie? not circulate the file? i need some time before all the questions start.
speaker2: oooh, are we breaking the rules again?
speaker1: so what else is new?

speaker1: you could save my life with some coffee. 
speaker2: tough night?
speaker1: you don't want to hear about it. or maybe you do.
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: just checking.
speaker2: shouldn't they be getting to school?
speaker1: impromptu field trip. i'm broadening their minds. and sparing them the sight of their beloved chauffeur barfing his guts out.
speaker1: i hate horses. how was the canyon? honey-suckle out yet?
speaker2: didn't see any.
speaker1: i hate that canyon. i hate this this whole plateau. too many ghosts. leave it to them i say. san diego, that's where i'm going. or oxnard. i like the sound of that. ox- nard.
speaker2: i'm happy here.
speaker1: oh lord protect us, another romantic pale face in love with the desert.
speaker2: just got to give it a chance.
speaker1: try growing up here. ox-nard. uno mas, see-boo-play. speaking of romantic pale faces, the rumor mill is in high gear again.
speaker2: who this time?
speaker1: that funny looking guy from window rock. the bia lawyer.
speaker2: huh.
speaker1: no! say it isn't so!
speaker2: it isn't so.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: thanks for the joe.
speaker2: no prob.
speaker1: you're a credit to the community.
speaker1: all right children, looks sharp! this is a school day! and no talking loud!

speaker1: this is "camposaurus". camposaurus was a herbavore, which meant he only ate plants. camposaur stayed mostly to himself and never bothered anyone. 
speaker1: this is a leg fragment that belongs to the killer of the plateau, alosaurus. alosaurus was a vicious carnivore, which meant he'd eat anything that moved, especially nice, juicy camposaurs.
speaker1: both these guys lived together right here on the white rock plateau eighty million years ago, when this area used to be on the banks of a huge, shallow sea. remember how we talked about how sedimentation fossilizes bones? that's also what made the hills out behind our town and put the copper in the ground.
speaker2: lot of good that did us.
speaker3: it's radioactive! like godzilla!
speaker1: just a tiny bit, alex. do you know why? uranium, that's the rock they use in nuclear power plants --
speaker3: and bombs!
speaker1: and bombs alex, yes, is all through these hills naturally. millions of years ago the dinosaurs here ate plants and drank water which had uranium in it that became concentrated in their bones, which is exactly how, with mr. geiger counter here, we're going to find some.

speaker1: -- hey. come on. what's the deal, brian? 
speaker2: she...
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: ...she, she called me a "dick head".
speaker1: sandra?
speaker3: well, he is.
speaker1: all right, brian. you get one free insult. make it good.
speaker4: you... you're a... cow demon!
speaker1: uh... okay. everybody satisfied? cow demon?

speaker1: i got one! i got one! 
speaker2: easy... easy... don't break it.

speaker1: i'm all done with the cleaning, miss henley. 
speaker2: thank you, jason. i appreciate it.
speaker1: find out what it is, yet?
speaker2: well, it's either a 44 million year old strychtosaurus or that cow mr. sorenson lost last winter.
speaker2: go eat your lunch, jason.
speaker1: sure, miss henley. thanks. see ya.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: what's your name?
speaker2: simon.
speaker1: you don't look so good, simon.
speaker2: no, i don't.
speaker1: i'm mary.
speaker2: hello mary.
speaker1: does miss henley know you're here?
speaker2: no one does, mary. can we keep it just our secret. for a little while?
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: i have to go.
speaker2: it was nice meeting you, mary.
speaker1: are you hungry? i could bring something.
speaker2: that would be very nice.
speaker1: okay. bye.

speaker1: gee jerry, you look like 
speaker2: leave me alone, gabriel.
speaker1: soon, pal. soon.
speaker1: come here.
speaker2: go away.
speaker1: come here...
speaker1: hmmm. still a little life left in you. barely.
speaker2: you.
speaker1: there's something i want you to do for me.
speaker2: what a surprise.
speaker1: don't be that way.
speaker2: i just want to... why won't you let me...
speaker1: i will, i will. promise.
speaker1: you need some new clothes, son.
speaker1: aw come on, don't start. you know how i hate that...
speaker2: i'm so tired. i'm so tired.
speaker1: watch the profanity. -- just one more favor. honest.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i want you to get something for me. a few personal effects the cops ripped off from the lovely allenwood arms on seventh street. it'll be sitting in their property room down on san julian.
speaker2: i'm supposed to just go in there? like this?
speaker1: give you a bath, put on some decent clothes, maybe a very large brim hat, you'll be fine. just go in between five and five-ten, it's a shift change and nobody'll notice you.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: c'mon. this should be more or less up to date.
speaker2: got a name this stuff is under?
speaker1: john doe.
speaker2: why doesn't that surprise me.
speaker1: i'll see you tonight. here's some bus fare.

speaker1: cover me! cover me! 
speaker2: pop it up!
speaker2: thanks a lot.
speaker3: you're missing the point of the game, thomas. you must absolutely trust no one. form alliances, but break them. lure another to trust you, then betray him! you play with too much honor. sink to the gutter. use people. lie and double-cross them.
speaker3: come on thomas, let's take out sam together!
speaker3: magnificent decadence.

speaker1: the important thing, tom, is seeing the game for what it is. 
speaker2: a sickening, hopeless, giant sucking hole of depravity.

speaker1: see ya guys next tuesday, huh? 
speaker2: so how's work?
speaker3: okay. y'now.
speaker2: life on the dark side.
speaker3: can i ask you about something?
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: it has to stay between us. i need your word on it.
speaker2: as a racquetball player or a priest?
speaker3: i'll take the priest for the moment.
speaker2: what's on your mind?
speaker3: it's a case. we found this guy. he was... different. but he had on him an old bible.
speaker2: it's a vichini.
speaker3: worth a little?
speaker2: more than a little. they're the best. sixth century. hand illuminated. vichini only did twenty, each pocket size for a king to carry into battle beside his heart. some consider them the finest bibles ever made. i thought they'd all be in museums. what are you doing with it?
speaker3: this one's a bit special.
speaker2: how?
speaker3: it's has a bonus chapter to st, john's revelations.
speaker2: really? what does it say?
speaker3: "and as in the first war, the angels so fought over the nature of their and there was much vanity and destruction in heaven. for some angels called their lord the son of and others called him the begotten father of christ." what do you think?
speaker2: i've never heard that quote before. theologically, the "first war" obviously refers to the war in heaven where michael the archangel threw out satan and his gang. old time bible stuff. but this implies there was a second war. that's news to me.
speaker3: and the rest of it?
speaker2: oh, it's a fairly common theological debate. or was. the idea that if christ is son, does that make him less than or are they the same being in different forms. that very argument almost tore the early christian church apart in the 4th century. that was the good old days when people actually worried about theology. anyway, it was settled when the bishops of the world got to together at the council of nicene in 325 and hashed out the various interpretations of scripture into a uniform dogma of belief. the result was the nicene creed, which basically said that christ was in fact the same as and was owed the same power and respect as the father. that they were the same. but it's not exactly the sort of thing angels would fight over.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: well, they could just ask right?
speaker3: do you think it's possible that john might have written that extra chapter?
speaker2: who knows? vichini was the greatest biblical scholar of the age, some claimed he made his own translations from the original writings. maybe he did find some unknown writings by john. it's possible i suppose. john always was a little negative about angels. all this actually has something to do with an lapd murder?
speaker3: i don't know yet. maybe. probably not.
speaker2: i hate to break it you, but that particular family spat has been settled for 1,600 years. nobody loses sleep over it anymore. honest.
speaker3: what did john have against angels?
speaker2: oh, he didn't trust them much. all that running around smiting and killing in the name of the lord. wild bunch. he thought it made them fickle and vain. one click above ghosts. satan didn't help the image much either.
speaker3: satan?
speaker2: well, he did start as an angel.
speaker2: so when are you going to get a real job?
speaker3: you mean with the church?
speaker2: you almost did it once. i never saw a seminary student more called to the collar than you. why didn't you ever become ordained?
speaker3: it's a long story.
speaker2: you'll have to tell it to me sometime.
speaker3: sometime.

speaker1: need a pass, friend. 
speaker2: i'll just be a second.
speaker1: c'mon...
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: brian, have you seen mary? 
speaker2: i think she's out back somewhere.
speaker1: allison?
speaker3: we haven't seen her since lunch.
speaker1: we're you guys up in the...
speaker1: okay everybody, get started on today's reading. quietly. i'll be right back.
speaker1: i mean quiet.

speaker1: mary... 
speaker1: mary...
speaker1: mary?
speaker1: mary, come here.
speaker2: but simon and i were --
speaker1: come here.
speaker1: go back to class.
speaker2: but --
speaker1: go.
speaker3: she wasn't doing any harm.
speaker1: it's not her i'm worried about.
speaker3: of course.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker3: small job. mostly done now. just passing through.
speaker1: this is school property, you can't sleep here.
speaker3: it wasn't part of the plan. honest.
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker3: no. not really.
speaker1: i'll have to call the police.
speaker3: i wish you wouldn't, but i understand.
speaker1: they'll help you.
speaker3: oh, i rather doubt that.
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: hello. i thought you'd left.
speaker2: i hid. i'm very clever.
speaker3: i'm sure you are. you were nice to give me the food.
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: i haven't much time, mary. and since you've been so nice to me, there's something i'd very much like to give to you.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: just for a little while. something very special. can you keep it a secret? the biggest secret ever?
speaker2: yes. what is it?
speaker3: come here, mary.
speaker3: closer...

speaker1: i don't feel good... 
speaker2: what's the matter, pumpkin? did you eat something? did he give you something?
speaker1: can i go home now?
speaker2: sure, hon. let's go.

speaker1: ...he's was just laying up there. i thought, with the kids and everything... 
speaker2: most of my boys are up the highway on a tanker spill at the moment. they may be a while. these people are rarely any problem. i'll have a deputy come by tonight or tomorrow and shoo him out.
speaker1: he looked hurt.
speaker2: they all do, ma'am. inside or out, they're all damaged goods.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: it's your friendly coroner.
speaker1: why is my friendly coroner, after a long day at work, calling me at home?
speaker2: i have something you'll want to see.
speaker1: i doubt it.
speaker2: no, you'll definitely want to see this.

speaker1: they also took the autopsy file. 
speaker2: "they"?
speaker1: he, she, it. they took it. they also lifted all the physical evidence from the san julian impound.
speaker2: where was everyone?
speaker1: the cop at the desk is in the hospital as we speak with a broken collarbone. everyone else was down the hall watching the basketball playoffs.
speaker2: who won?
speaker1: temple.
speaker2: lucky.
speaker1: yeah. foul on the buzzer.
speaker2: looks like the snow angels we used to make as kids. lie down in a clean bank. move your arms up and down...
speaker1: you know what this means. our friend's cleaned out all the evidence on this guy. everything.
speaker2: did the cop get a look at who nailed him?
speaker1: tall. smiled a lot.
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: he wore sunglasses.
speaker1: you gonna figure this one out, tom?
speaker2: i'm going to try.
speaker1: when you do, give me a call. tell me i'm not crazy.

speaker1: you like the desert, jerry? 
speaker2: you promised. you promised that --
speaker1: -- soon. honest. don't be a pest about it.
speaker2: never trust a angel.
speaker1: excellent advice.

speaker1: do you ever have one of those afternoons where you feel no one's giving you a straight answer about anything? 
speaker2: oh, maybe five or six times a week.
speaker1: it says here somebody got into the property warehouse and cleaned everything out of your evidence box. no, he did leave one thing. a footprint. 11-d.
speaker2: mud on his shoes?
speaker1: spinal fluid.
speaker1: i'm not going to get a straight answer out of you either, am i?
speaker2: not yet.
speaker2: i need to go to arizona.
speaker1: for your health?
speaker2: so i can give you a straight answer.
speaker1: sure, why not? take the kids. see the grand canyon. send me a postcard.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: i've got a headache, tom, and i hate my life. if you have to go, go.

speaker1: why do you need me? i can hardly walk now. 
speaker2: some things are human work, son. live or dead, human work. besides, i like you.
speaker1: lucky moi.
speaker2: i can always smell a graveyard.

speaker1: i hope you're enjoying this. 
speaker2: i always enjoy watching you work, jerry.
speaker1: how did i ever get you in my life?
speaker2: come on, you didn't really want to kill yourself.
speaker1: but i did it, didn't i? i did kill myself.
speaker2: well, yes. technically.
speaker1: and you're just keeping me alive.
speaker2: letting you die slower.
speaker1: i'm so in your debt.
speaker2: thank you, jerry. i'm touched. really.
speaker1: not much to look at.
speaker2: ah, but it's not what's on the outside that matters --
speaker2: -- it's what's on the inside.
speaker2: it's not here.
speaker2: it's not here!
speaker1: oooh, bad news for the war effort.
speaker2: shut up!!
speaker2: now, if you were a soul, where would you hide?
speaker1: the away from you.

speaker1: hey little brother. 
speaker2: hey. how's the world?
speaker3: the world's the usual. except for a guppy. the world's minus one guppy this morning.
speaker2: and jamie and mac?
speaker3: they keep asking for uncle tommy. the only man that can make stuffed bears talk.
speaker2: my one true calling. what's up?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: it's five-thirty in the morning.
speaker3: i just thought i should call.
speaker2: you always were telepathic.
speaker3: don't go.
speaker2: it's my job, jan. i go places sometimes.
speaker3: i just had this terrible feeling about it. what's happening, tom?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: i miss you. even when you're here. i miss you. i miss my brother. it's been four years, tom, since...
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: we're the only blood family we have left, you and me. i worry about you.
speaker2: i'll be okay.
speaker3: sorry about the dawn-attack call. i love you.
speaker2: i love you too, jan.

speaker1: boy, what a dump, huh? 
speaker1: why can't this ever go down in miami? or bora bora? i feel like i've spent my whole stay in gin swills like this.
speaker2: life's a
speaker1: well well...

speaker1: hi, simon. 
speaker2: gabriel.
speaker3: don't mind me. just along for the ride.
speaker1: so, what shall we talk about? theology?
speaker2: i'm a little talked out on theology.
speaker1: fair enough...
speaker1: you know why i'm here.
speaker2: oh yes.
speaker1: don't happen to have it on you by chance?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: that would have been too easy.
speaker1: please, simon. get serious.
speaker1: now. where's the soul? you know. so high. used to reside in the recently departed general hawthorne.
speaker1: have it your way, big guy.
speaker2: i do have one question.
speaker1: shoot.
speaker2: do you even remember what this war's about?
speaker1: that's hardly the point, is it?
speaker2: i guess i never did get the point.
speaker1: happens.
speaker2: how do you do it, gabriel? how do you go on and on in this place?
speaker1: i like it here, simon. i always have.
speaker2: i'm so tired...
speaker1: then join us, simon. reject the nicene council. we were here first.
speaker2: i can't do it, gabriel. i don't even know why anymore, but i can't.
speaker1: you know the routine.
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: not yet. 
speaker1: i can do this for five months, simon...

speaker1: this is getting boring, simon. 
speaker2: amen.
speaker1: where is it? where did you put it?
speaker1: where is it!
speaker1: i'm just about out of tricks here. you're a tough one, friend. old school.
speaker1: loves you, simon.

speaker1: you may want to skip this, ma'am. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: were any of your students up here?
speaker3: mary...

speaker1: how is she? 
speaker2: same.
speaker1: did the doctor come by?
speaker2: he found nothing. but something is in her. i know. something the belagaana doctor can't see. the night people have been around two days now. it is a warning. so we have called the hand trembler. to find if she must have an enemy ghost way.

speaker1: and to what do i owe the thrill of a visit from a so cal homicide cop? 
speaker2: run of of the mill psycho killer body dismemberment on our end. the usual.
speaker1: lovely place, los angeles.
speaker2: got a lead i wanted to run down chimney rock way. thought i'd do the courtesy of telling you first.
speaker1: big of you.
speaker2: you're welcome to put a babysitter on me if you like.
speaker1: son, this is the third biggest county in the country, not even counting the 25,000 square mile indian reservation right next door, and i've got fewer men than just one of your little palm tree precincts to cover all of it. 'fraid the only help you're gonna get from me, short of another shoot out at the ok corral, is that cup of coffee in your hand. a middle-aged secretary enters with a stack of paper.
speaker3: here's the last week's watch reports.
speaker3: bobby just called this in from chimney rock.
speaker1: sent a car up there this morning. teacher complained some vagrant was sleeping in her schoolhouse. the sheriff's brow crinkles in consternation as he reads further.
speaker1: it, get bobby on the phone, clarice. what the is this suppose to be?
speaker2: may i?
speaker2: thanks for the coffee.
speaker1: small piece of advice, lt. dagget, that i give free of charge to all visiting big city policemen: it's wild country up there. always has been, always will be. you come across anything that snarls, you call me first, hear?
speaker2: i never turn down advice, sheriff. especially when it's free.

speaker1: how long ago was he buried? 
speaker2: which time?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: somebody dug him up last night. i just finished putting him back.
speaker1: did they take anything?
speaker2: nothin' on the outside.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: can i help you with something?
speaker1: tom dagget. i'm with the police.
speaker2: about the guy upstairs?
speaker1: i'd like to ask you a few questions.
speaker2: i've kinda got my hands full right now.
speaker1: i'll just tag along.
speaker2: here, make yourself useful.
speaker2: okay, everbody stays on the courts today. -- i mean it.
speaker1: what grade is this?
speaker2: all of 'em.
speaker1: town doesn't look that small.
speaker2: nearly all ghosts now. when the copper mine closed it took most of the town with it. we just teach out of this one corner of the schoolhouse now. rest of it's been abandoned for years.
speaker1: you're the only teacher.
speaker2: yup. just me. -- randy...
speaker3: but he --
speaker2: do it again and i'll put your head in the door and slam it. love and understanding are important tools in education.
speaker1: clearly.
speaker1: the man upstairs, did you talk to him?
speaker2: i wanted to know what the he was doing there.
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: that it wasn't part of the plan. he looked hurt. bloody. like someone had cut him. that happens here. was that... stuff... on the floor really him?
speaker1: did any of the children talk to him?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: she's home sick from school today.
speaker1: can i speak with her parents?
speaker2: they're dead. she lives with her grandmother. i'll have to ask her.
speaker1: all right. this is my number at the hotel.
speaker1: did you know arnold hawthorne?
speaker2: the general? saw him here and there. it's a small town.
speaker1: military man?
speaker2: about a million years ago. his interests lately were more like gardening and herbal tea.
speaker1: did you go to the funeral?
speaker2: everyone did. he lived here.
speaker1: no dark hidden secrets?
speaker2: there are no secrets in small towns, mr. dagget, dark or otherwise.

speaker1: it's unusual to see someone of your age in church on a weekday. 
speaker2: don't get me wrong. i think it's an excellent sign of character.
speaker2: never mind him. he shouldn't even be in here. least not standing.
speaker2: you're not from here.
speaker3: either are you.
speaker2: i'm looking for something.
speaker3: have you found it?
speaker2: i will. have you found what you're looking for?
speaker3: i will.
speaker2: i don't doubt it. you'll let me know? when you find it?
speaker3: where are you staying?
speaker2: i'm around.

speaker1: i got your note. 
speaker2: have a seat. you need a card. here, play one of mine.
speaker1: no, it's okay. really --
speaker3: you must learn to shed your high- strung ways, pale face. you must learn the spirit joy in patience, peace, and making fifty or sixty bucks.

speaker1: john, this is mr. dagget. says he's with the police, though judging by his coat and basic command of the english language, i don't think it's from anywhere around here. 
speaker2: tom. from los angeles.
speaker3: that near oxnard?
speaker2: sort of.
speaker1: long way from home, tom-from-los- angeles.

speaker1: -- hey, wait. i won. i won! 
speaker2: -- what? no way --
speaker3: recount! recount!

speaker1: your turn. 
speaker2: oh, no thanks.
speaker1: c'mon, don't be a drip.
speaker2: i'm not very good at this...
speaker1: no, you're not, are you?
speaker1: let me lead.

speaker1: so how's our star pupil feeling today? 
speaker2: mary? the school doctor came by. declared it "non-specific gastrointestinal disorder".
speaker1: latin for "i don't have the slightest idea".
speaker3: will she be able to talk with me?
speaker2: that's up to her. mary's grandmother called a hand trembler.
speaker1: uh oh. hocus pocus time.
speaker3: is that serious?
speaker1: depends what the hand trembler says. people call them in when they think a witch or a yei is trying to sprinkle corpse sickness in their hogan, or if the night people have been hanging around too much. night people screw around a lot, but they're good at warning of evil ghosts.
speaker3: who are the night people?
speaker1: they come as coyotes.

speaker1: beautiful stars out here. 
speaker2: too much sky in the desert. it pushes on you. sometimes i wonder if anyone in heaven even knows this place is here...

speaker1: where do you keep the coffee in this joint? 
speaker2: above the stove.
speaker3: what happens if the hand trembler says a ghost has been...
speaker2: -- messing with mary? if you're smart you say thank you very much and forget about it. but if you're heavy traditional, and mary's people are serious traditional, you have an enemy ghost way.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker2: expensive. it's a sing to purify and drive off the corpse sickness. two days of dancing and ceremony and feeding the whole village. not even to mention hiring the yataallii, if you can even find one these days. and you can bet they don't come cheap. but every clan does it a bit different. especially mary's.
speaker3: you know them?
speaker2: the bitter sky clan. hard core reservation. no lights, no running water, no hbo. their village is out on the edge of old woman butte. million miles from anything. witch country. settled right there in the dead people land where no one else would, right on top of the old anasazi village. they're a dying clan. just the old ones now. all alone out there in the middle of nothing. they can keep it.
speaker3: do people really still believe in it all? ghosts, sings, corpse sickness?
speaker2: depends, i guess. sometimes you go along because it's a village thing, or you don't want to disappoint grandma. but sometimes, when you're alone out there, far from town, and the wind kicks up and sneaks into your hogan... i don't know.
speaker3: i think john's out for the evening.
speaker1: saturday night in chimney rock.
speaker3: so how does a person like you end up teaching here?
speaker1: when i was younger i used to believe that no matter how much you mucked around in your life, one day, if you listened hard enough, a voice would tell you what you were really cut out to do. and when it didn't show up on schedule i decided to go look for it. and i looked in a lot of places, believe me. i drove that road out there so far that the end became the beginning again. and it was when i got here that i realized there never was going to be a voice. so i stopped looking and took the first job they offered me. that make any sense to you?
speaker3: oh, i know all about voices. problem is not all of them are very nice.
speaker1: how did you end up a cop?
speaker3: it was the evil of two lessers.
speaker1: are you always this cryptic?
speaker3: no. when you get to know me i can be down right evasive.
speaker3: thanks for the lift. tomorrow at noon? at the little girl's house?
speaker1: first trailer on the highway past town.
speaker1: i must say, mr. dagget, that you don't seem very like a police officer to me.
speaker3: that's what my bosses keep saying.
speaker1: i meant it as a compliment.
speaker3: so taken. goodnight, miss henley.
speaker1: goodnight, tom-from-los-angeles.

speaker1: ...there, and there. now pucker your lips... aim it that way, and just blow a little bit, this is a special trumpet. 
speaker1: very good, timmy. very good. here, have a junior mint on me. open up.
speaker1: who's next?
speaker1: and who are you?
speaker2: sandra.
speaker1: and did you see the man upstairs, sandra?
speaker2: a little.
speaker1: did you talk to him?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and who did, sandra. who talked to the man?
speaker2: mary.
speaker1: and where is mary, sandra?
speaker2: she isn't here. she's sick.
speaker1: you've got very pretty teeth, sandra. here, let me see...
speaker3: what the do you think you're doing?
speaker1: just talking to the kids, ma'am.
speaker3: get off his knee, sandra. everyone else, go inside. now.
speaker4: 'bye, gabriel.
speaker1: see ya, kids. be sure to study your math.
speaker3: who are you?
speaker1: it's a long story.
speaker1: ignore him.
speaker5: everyone else does.
speaker3: i don't know what the is going on, but you both better get out of here. right now.
speaker1: you're right...
speaker1: ...you have no idea what's going on.
speaker3: al! keep an eye on the children for me. i'll be right back. and call the sheriff.
speaker6: sheriff? what the do i tell him?
speaker3: just call.

speaker1: you weren't suppose to be here till noon. 
speaker2: you're a little early yourself.
speaker1: i wanted to check on her.
speaker2: that makes two of us.

speaker1: how are you feeling, pumpkin? 
speaker2: better.
speaker1: this is mr. dagget, mary. he'd like to ask you some questions. you don't have to answer if you don't want to.
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker3: mary, when you talked to man up in the building --
speaker2: -- simon.
speaker3: yes, simon. what did simon say?
speaker2: that's funny. "simon says".
speaker3: right. like the game.
speaker2: i'm good at it. i'm very clever.
speaker3: we'll have to play together sometime.
speaker2: simon even said so. he also asked if i could keep a secret.
speaker3: and what was that?
speaker2: something he gave me.
speaker1: what, pumpkin?
speaker2: then it wouldn't be a secret.
speaker3: you're a good friend not to tell, mary. but i'm a friend of simon's too. so if you ever want to tell, you can to me. okay?
speaker2: it's a secret...
speaker2: ...but sometimes it hurts.
speaker2: have you ever killed a chinaman?
speaker3: no mary, i haven't.
speaker2: they don't bleed. not the way you and i do. or maybe it was just the cold...
speaker2: i've killed them, you know. lots. you could always tell when they were coming. there'd be the trumpets first. every note flat. then those songs... after that they'd charge. right down through the snow. the guns would freeze and it would be just knives... it was so cold and there were so many of them. but i was smarter than they were. even at chosin, i was smarter...
speaker2: it scares me, miss henley. i hate it. please, make it stop!
speaker2: make it stop!
speaker1: it's okay... it's okay...
speaker1: i'm sorry, i didn't mean to --
speaker4: it's all right, miss henley. we know you love mary...
speaker1: what are we going to do?
speaker4: she's going to have the enemy ghost way. we leave this afternoon.
speaker3: where will they do the ceremony?
speaker1: in the home village. the hand trembler must have found corpse sickness...
speaker3: they're taking her away? shouldn't she see a doctor?
speaker1: she's already seen a doctor. that son of a
speaker3: who?
speaker1: gabriel the children called him. the little was hanging around my kids this morning asking about mary. he and his buddy make a real pair.
speaker3: maybe it's time i checked out mr. gabriel.
speaker1: i know where he parks his car.

speaker1: chinamen? chosin? i've never heard her talk like that before. 
speaker2: chosin reservoir was a korean war battle the marines had against the chinese, supposedly the bloodiest hand-to-hand fighting of the century. someone been teaching that to your class?
speaker1: sure, right next to jack 'n jill.
speaker2: where would she have heard it?
speaker1: nobody i can think of. maybe one.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: general hawthorne.
speaker2: did she know him?
speaker1: he didn't like children.
speaker2: you couldn't and tell a story like that to one.
speaker1: it was there earlier.
speaker2: if i was smart i'd call the sheriff or somebody in town who knows this place. then again, there is one thing worse than getting killed.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: looking like an if it's nothing. he pops his trunk and takes out a flashlight.
speaker1: i'll come along.
speaker2: no, if someone has to fall a hundred feet down a black pit, he should at least be on official duty.
speaker2: then again, it is kind of spooky in there. here, you can hold the flashlight.

speaker1: it's cold... 
speaker2: 
speaker2: you okay?
speaker1: yeah... sorry.
speaker2: well, i've seen enough.
speaker2: wonderful.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: i don't know. maybe a or something.

speaker1: do you feel it? 
speaker2: ...yes.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: oh no... oh no...
speaker2: no!

speaker1: what... what was that? hell? 
speaker2: ...no. the voices. they were screaming and fighting over... theology. they don't sweat much about that in hell. but they do in... heaven.
speaker2: the son of a he carries it around with him like a photo album. a big, greasy cloud wherever he goes. they all do.
speaker1: how can that be heaven? christ. how? i don't even believe in heaven.
speaker1: you assholes! how could you have done that!
speaker2: that extra chapter by st. john was right. it's a war... just like the first one. just like when the angel michael beat lucifer and cast him out. only now they've turned on each other... turned on each other in a civil war over theology.
speaker2: oh sweet theology. "god's wild bunch". morons!
speaker1: how do you know know so much about that?
speaker2: i just know. yes folks, the good news is that there's life after death in heaven. the bad news is that it's as screwed up as here.
speaker1: they were like us.
speaker2: they are us. aborted children. and they need us. they need our corrupt, dark souls for their fight. they need...
speaker1: ...mary.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: i don't know what this is. i don't know what i believe. i don't know if my sanity is lying back in that cave flopping around waiting for me. but i know one thing. those... those things aren't taking her!

speaker1: in those... visions... did you ever see... god? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: me either.

speaker1: mary? 
speaker2: get away from her.
speaker3: you know. son of a the priest wanna-be actually figured it out. that's a rare club, son. at least down here.
speaker2: back away from the kid, man. now.
speaker3: she won't feel anything, honest. i'll have to tear her apart of course -- just the way it goes -- but it'll be all right in the end. a good catholic boy like you, mr. daggett, you should be on my side.
speaker2: it --
speaker3: you're gonna have to watch that profanity.
speaker3: it'll only be a moment...
speaker4: thanks man, i appreciate it. you're a sport.
speaker3: you little pest, do you have any idea how hard it is to get one of those?
speaker1: you son of a why? why do this?
speaker3: because i'm an angel, you miserable wretch! i kill first borns while their mothers watch! i turn whole cities into salt! i even, when i feel like it, rip the souls from little girls! and from now until eternity, the only thing you'll be able to count on in your pathetic little existence is never knowing why! i'm wasting my time here. c'mon petunia, let's get on with it...
speaker2: go. go!

speaker1: ...you... 
speaker1: ...can't...
speaker1: ...have her!!

speaker1: where... 
speaker2: she was coming up the street.
speaker3: is gabriel dead?
speaker3: they're not like you and me. you've got to cut their hearts out. the only thing gave them.
speaker4: what the happened here?

speaker1: that's a start. how about the rest of it? 
speaker2: that man over there. he's wanted. murder. i'm taking him in. --
speaker1: i think you're going to the hospital first.
speaker2: -- no, i have to -- again, the pain. the second deputy has walked over to gabriel.
speaker1: is he alive?
speaker3: he's alive.
speaker1: cuff him. we'll take him to the hospital in our car.
speaker2: -- no, you don't understand. you have to let me have him --
speaker2: you'll never hold him.
speaker2: take off his sunglasses... christ, just take off his sunglasses...
speaker4: let's get a splint.
speaker2: we have to get out of here.
speaker5: but your head...
speaker2: if you want mary to stay alive past sundown we have to leave, and we have to do it now.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: mary's village.

speaker1: county coroner's office, assistant coroner raphael speaking. 
speaker2: willie?
speaker3: tom?
speaker2: you weren't crazy, man.

speaker1: so what's the deal, huh? 
speaker1: i mean, do you have any kind of plan here? cause i'm just about of ideas, friend.
speaker1: do you even listen? do you still come to places like this? old man, you have been calling me most of my life, but every time i get close, you just keep moving that far away. what's it to be? you want me to kill your henchmen? can't you even control your own killers anymore?
speaker1: what do you want from me!

speaker1: i am bartholomew grey horse, born to the deer spring clan, born for the slow talking people. today i am the yataalii for mary tsosie of the bitter sky clan. 
speaker2: ya-tah.
speaker3: ya-tah-hey.
speaker4: this is a good place.
speaker5: yes?
speaker4: separate water source. stocked grain. only one possible approach. a man could, with the proper defenses, hold off an entire battalion for weeks. months.
speaker5: which one of you is that talking, mary? or do you even know anymore?
speaker2: we will start the sing soon to remove the yei spirit and stop the ghost sickness.
speaker5: this might not be the work of a navaho ghost.
speaker2: it's all the same.

speaker1: hello, katherine. 
speaker2: oh lord, i can't do this. i can't do this anymore...
speaker3: we must talk, katherine. it's takes all her strength to look upon him.
speaker2: you're... you're... ...god?
speaker3: is love, katherine.
speaker3: -- i don't love you.
speaker2: i can't. i can't do this tonight. go away.
speaker3: i can kill you, katherine. i can lay you out and fill your mouth with your mother's feces. or i can talk with you.
speaker3: i am here, before you, in a form to put you at ease.
speaker2: good job.
speaker3: i rarely do this in person. i am, perhaps, somewhat out of touch.
speaker2: are you one of them?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: you're not an angel?
speaker3: oh, i am an angel. a very special one. the first. the oldest. the naive eagle scout, he once loved me above all others, and i him. it was the only true love for either of us, but like all true love, it couldn't possibly last.
speaker3: the winged party boys will come, katherine. they'll come to feed on the guts of your little mary.
speaker2: what do you care?
speaker3: i have my interests...
speaker3: the naive eagle scout, he has his interests too. he even has a place for them, as i do for mine. big, shiny place. you'd like it. only it's been empty for a long time. can't open till after the resurrection. the problem's with the hired help. always had problems with the hired help. they're arrogant, boastful little pricks. not like me. what i did i did for love. but they, the winged party boys, even before the park could open for its first customer, they started fighting over the popcorn stand.
speaker3: you see, katherine, heaven can't start accepting guests till this fight is settled. and without people, there is no heaven. all those good and true souls left mouldering in the ground clutching their h-tickets and waiting and waiting and waiting... some, lying down there with the worms century after century, they start to get doubts about the whole program. that's when, out of sheer boredom, some of them come to me. because i'm always open for business. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. even on christmas.
speaker3: some of the angels cheat. they sneak a few souls in to help with the fight. the really dark ones. and now one of them has found a special soul so wonderfully sick that it might just win it for them. and if one side wins, even the wrong one, then there's no fight. and if there's no fight, there can be a heaven.
speaker2: and if there's a heaven?
speaker3: i'd be very unhappy. i am here to help you and the little not because i love you, not because i care about you, but because i want this war to go on and on and on.
speaker3: i bring you the chance to save your mary, katherine. and along the way, stop the resurrection.
speaker2: how?
speaker3: listen when i speak. now go to bed, katherine. tomorrow, i promise you, is a big day.

speaker1: is it over? 
speaker2: for now. they start again tomorrow.
speaker1: and at the end of it?
speaker2: the enemy way chant removes the invading yei ghost.
speaker1: will it work on a general's soul?
speaker2: we'll see. how's the head?
speaker1: still attached. barely.
speaker2: here, i'll change the bandage. she carefully unwraps the blood-soaked gauze.
speaker2: does that hurt?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: then i must be doing it wrong.
speaker2: i saw the devil tonight.
speaker1: how nice. which one?
speaker2: the main one. satan. lucifer. the dark angel. you know.
speaker1: what did he have to say?
speaker2: that he did it all for love. that and i have a choice. mary's life or a billion souls waiting in the pipeline for heavenland to open.
speaker1: you're not kidding, are you?
speaker2: no sir.
speaker1: satan? you're sure?
speaker2: you had to be there.
speaker1: why wasn't i!
speaker2: we can double date next time if it's that important to you.
speaker1: you don't understand, i've spent my whole life... i don't suppose it would occur to anyone in authority to fill me in on what's going on every once in awhile, huh?
speaker1: did he say anything about the nicene council? about the rank of christ in the holy trinity?
speaker2: it didn't seem important to him.
speaker2: are you a priest?
speaker1: a near miss.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: it's a long story.
speaker2: this may be your last chance to tell it.
speaker1: the other night, you were talking about waiting for a voice to call you to something. well, let me tell you, the worst thing that can happen to you is to be called to something. since i can remember a voice from somewhere deep in the church called me. so loud and so often that by thirteen i knew i was going to be a priest. you know what that's like? my parents, friends, all of them thought i was crazy. but see, i had this voice. the voice that kept coaxing me along, telling me there was a reason. so i entered the seminary and was half way to my starched white collar when my mother, father, and my little brother were wiped out in a car crash.
speaker1: i had never asked anything of the voice. not when the neighborhood kids made fun of me, not when my father looked down at me like some knock-kneed faggot. i never questioned a thing. but on the morning i spent looking down at three parallel graves, i asked it one question. why. why were these people taken from me? and the voice, that same voice that would wrench me out of my sleep some nights with its jabbering, it was suddenly stone silent. it was the only question i ever asked of it and it just left me hanging in the wind...
speaker1: so after that i traded in priest school for homicide school. because if wouldn't talk to me the devil sure as would, and his ways were a lot easier to understand.
speaker2: we've never seen have we? not in any of this.
speaker1: yeah, he's certainly a shy son of a i'll give him that.
speaker2: maybe we're not supposed to. maybe that's faith.
speaker1: do you still have faith in anything, katherine?
speaker2: i have faith in mary. and that i'm going to save that little girl from those creeping things out there. from all of them.
speaker1: maybe you were called to something after all.
speaker2: maybe we both were.

speaker1: heavy sleeper, john. 
speaker2: don't -- don't hurt me, man. my wallet's in the dresser.
speaker1: don't be such a materialist, john. no end to your bad habits.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: a moment of your time.
speaker2: you ought to have that nose looked at, man.
speaker1: where are they, john? katherine and mary? where would they go?
speaker2: what? mary? i don't know.
speaker1: sure you do. think hard.
speaker2: no, really. i don't know. the school maybe.
speaker1: now you're not even trying, john. you're katherine's best friend. she tells you everything.
speaker2: i'm just the driver, y'know?
speaker1: i can help you remember, john...

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: someone's going to die here soon. i'll just be a minute.
speaker1: there's no visitors allowed in icu.
speaker2: the timing's important. i can smell these things, you know.
speaker2: go to sleep.
speaker2: recovering... recovering... stable... deteriorating critical.
speaker2: whoa, not just yet. come on back. that's it...
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: no, no...
speaker2: hey, c'mon, don't start... -- rachael. here... it's only for a short time. promise.

speaker1: hi, miss henley. 
speaker2: hi, pumpkin. good morning.
speaker3: katherine runs into thomas outside the hogan.
speaker2: how's the head?
speaker4: shitty. coffee?
speaker2: what are we going to do if he comes?
speaker4: you mean when, right?
speaker2: when he comes.
speaker4: there's no phone here? radio? stupid question. if we were smart we'd leave. get to a town. a sheriff station.
speaker2: mary's ceremony isn't over yet. the enemy ghost way. the alien spirit hasn't been driven out.
speaker4: do you really believe in the ceremony?
speaker2: would you have believed in any of this three days ago?
speaker4: so we stay and dump the general's soul.
speaker2: you have the gun?
speaker4: with one shot left. the spares -- -- and a change of clothing, are all still at the hotel. we're going to have to come up with something.
speaker2: we could always ask him.
speaker5: i always forget how cold it gets in the desert. the swimming, bottomless eyes fall on thomas.
speaker5: mr. daggett, i presume. how's the faith?
speaker5: come come, must you be so wishy-washy about everything? with the absent- minded eagle scout, i can see that. but you're looking at the devil man, say something.
speaker4: you.
speaker5: much better. can i have some coffee?
speaker4: keep it.
speaker5: i have come to remind you that the winged party boys are just that: spoiled boys. you are armed, however pathetically, with the one thing they never really understood: theology. it's not much, but that's life.
speaker4: is this supposed to be our "win one for the ripper" speech?
speaker5: don't press your luck, mr. daggett.
speaker5: go and get ready, thomas.
speaker5: have you ever considered katherine, that the great absentee landlord, the soft-eyed eagle scout your childhood prayers are for, is just using you? that you're only the exterminator to get rid of his pests?
speaker5: junkies are coming, katherine. and when they do, all is going to break loose...

speaker1: say, ma'am, any idea where i can find old woman butte? 
speaker2: it's on the reservation.
speaker1: i don't suppose you could be just a tad more specific. madge.
speaker2: isn't your friend hungry?
speaker1: not for a while, i'm afraid. funniest thing.
speaker2: take 522 to the sonsela wash cut- off. first dirt road go left. twenty, twenty-five miles you'll see it. big, black and all alone.
speaker1: i doubt we'll meet again.
speaker2: suits me.

speaker1: he's coming. 
speaker2: is there any way to speed this up?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: lock the door.
speaker2: stay inside. it's only one round, so make it count.

speaker1: you'll like this, rachael. maybe not. 
speaker1: nice move.
speaker1: you ought to come work for us. upstairs. we sneak the odd civilian in now and then, you know. you'd like it. nobody tells you when to go to bed, can eat all the ice cream you want. and you get to kill. all day and all night. just like an angel.
speaker1: save yourself, friend. why go to the wall with the and her rug rat? it'll all turn out the same anyway. here or in heaven, we're still gonna tear the kid apart.
speaker2: i'm not an angel, heaven or hell. i'm a man you eyeless puke, which means i have one thing you never will. a soul. and though i may, somewhere inside, believe in a i will never, never, believe in you.
speaker1: a little speechy today, aren't we? okay pal, have it your way.
speaker1: this is going to really, really hurt.
speaker2: ...you -- your war...
speaker1: c'mon, son, out with it. make this one count.
speaker2: your war's a lie!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: running around acting like this is really about whether christ is just the son of or if he is that's not what this is about at all, is it?
speaker1: you're wrong.
speaker2: then prove it to me, gabriel. i studied three years of theology before i picked up a gun. c'mon, you're chief angel, i'm just a little man. prove to me christ is just a son and less than prove it!
speaker1: i don't have to.
speaker2: because you can't! because this war isn't about some obscure medieval hangup. you're just jealous.
speaker1: you're wrong!
speaker2: try me, gabriel. go on. prove to me the temporal nature of the trinity. show me through logic how the son of the word can be separated from the father. fight me with philosophy, gabriel!
speaker1: no!
speaker2: because you and your army are wrong! and you know it. you knew it sixteen centuries ago.
speaker1: we don't have to listen to him! he's just a son!
speaker2: that's it. you're jealous. jealous he could love something more than you...
speaker1: shut up...
speaker2: if you wanted to know so badly, gabriel, why didn't you just ask him? why didn't you just ask god?
speaker1: because he doesn't talk to us anymore!

speaker1: relax folks, it's just a soul. 
speaker1: i'm getting real tired of you.
speaker2: go to hell.
speaker1: heaven, darling. heaven. at least get the zip code right.
speaker2: it's all the same, isn't it?
speaker1: no. in heaven we believe in love.
speaker2: and what do you love, gabriel?
speaker1: -- cracking your skull.
speaker2: that's all it is for you anymore, gabriel, isn't it? just the killing and the burning. you don't work for anymore. you don't fight for love.
speaker1: shut up!
speaker1: loves you, mary!
speaker2: finish it.
speaker2: finish it!
speaker2: go home.
speaker3: no.
speaker3: please. go on.
speaker1: oh man, this just isn't my day.
speaker3: long time.
speaker1: the world's young, man.
speaker3: and full of ambition.
speaker1: this isn't your war.
speaker3: but i remember the last one. michael's war.
speaker1: you lost.
speaker3: but lots of angels were with me. every one followed their leader out of heaven.
speaker1: yeah yeah, i was there, remember?
speaker3: except one. oh, he was with me all right. he hated the eagle scout. envied the power he gave to his son. but this angel never came out front during the war. and when it ended he thought maybe, maybe the eagle scout didn't notice. so he laid low and towed the company line till he could start his own war. it was all just jealousy.
speaker1: you're dreaming.
speaker3: but maybe he did notice. maybe that's why i'm here.
speaker1: -- stay away from me.
speaker3: you've always been a part of me, gabriel. and now it's time to come home.
speaker1: you!
speaker4: the enemy spirit is gone.
speaker5: where?
speaker5: more will come... to look for the soul...
speaker2: and they won't find it. not in mary.
speaker2: can you help him?
speaker6: we have some bandages.
speaker2: are you all right, pumpkin?
speaker7: i'm okay.
speaker2: it's going to be okay... we're all going to be okay...
speaker2: i can't quite bring myself to say thank you.
speaker3: i understand.
speaker2: then this is done.
speaker3: not necessarily. maybe i like you. maybe i want you to come with me.
speaker3: you owe me, katherine. and you're going to ask me to take you home.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you will. you will because any other way is going to be more awful than you can imagine.
speaker2: are you threatening me?
speaker2: then you've picked the wrong person this time. i've just about had it up to here with ghosts. so you can put away the horror movie sneer and the k-mart halloween eyes, because we know you now. we know you all. and if you want to force the issue then go ahead because you're just another angel to me. take a look at your buddy gabriel. then ask yourself, do you really, really want to with us?
speaker3: perhaps another time.
speaker2: i'm holding my breath.
speaker3: goodbye, katherine. for now.
speaker7: is he coming back?
speaker2: i don't think so, honey... i don't think so...

speaker1: is he going to live? 
speaker2: with any luck.
speaker1: i thought i told you to give me a call if anything snarled.
speaker3: there wasn't a phone.
speaker1: hmmm.
speaker1: this fella, gabriel...
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: gabriel what?
speaker3: just gabriel.
speaker1: pretty violent guy, gabriel. even for out here.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: caught up with him at the village?
speaker3: he caught up with me.
speaker1: what were you doing way up here?
speaker3: enemy ghost way for mary tsosie.
speaker1: indian stuff.
speaker3: yeah. indian stuff.
speaker1: did you kill this gabriel?
speaker3: maybe. i think so.
speaker1: don't have any idea where the body is i suppose.
speaker3: no.
speaker1: well, if he's alive he won't get far out there. us or the coyotes, it'll be the same. i rang your office in la. they don't have a warrant out for a gabriel. or anybody else in arizona.
speaker3: i hadn't gotten around to it.
speaker1: sort of an out of pocket thing.
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: that woman lying at the bottom of the arroyo, the one still in her hospital gown, know anything about that?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: really.
speaker3: really.
speaker1: this gabriel was sure one busy dude.
speaker3: yes, he was.
speaker1: you'll be going back to los angeles now?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: don't hurry back.
speaker2: don't do much but breathe the next few days. and get to a hospital. you're going to need some serious stitches.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker2: say hi to hollywood for me.
speaker4: you look bad.
speaker3: thank you. i feel worse. they lean on you much?
speaker5: not really. i think they might have even understood. one of them's related to this clan. he'll give us a ride back if we want.
speaker3: good. i think i've about run out of hospitality with the sheriff's department.
speaker5: do you think it's really over?
speaker3: till we die.
speaker5: when i die, i want you with me.
speaker3: i want that too.

