speaker1: that's it, people! wrap it up! 
speaker2: hey!
speaker2: wind chill - yellow revisions 2/23/05 3.

speaker1: do you think you could have parked any further from the entrance? 
speaker2: there were still cars when i got here. i thought we were going to get an early start to stay ahead of the snow?
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: quarter past three.

speaker1: i'm two hours late?! sorry. you should've just left without me. that's what i would've done. hurry up and pop the trunk so i can stow my he does. 
speaker2: i'm kinda getting kicked out of my apartment. i didn't have time to find someplace new before exams.
speaker1: why don't you just get the engine started and put the heat on? i can handle this.

speaker1: what, are you kidding? i'm bored to tears... no, we're still on the highway... how should i know, all highways look exactly alike. 
speaker2: you going to be on that thing the whole-

speaker1: this isn't cool. if i have to drive, you have to talk to me. 
speaker2: what, i'm the in-flight entertainment?
speaker1: that's how this ride-sharing thing works. division of labor. we split everything fifty-fifty... get it?
speaker2: i've got news for you, i don't get much more entertaining than when i'm on the phone.
speaker1: this is turning out great.
speaker2: what's that mean?
speaker1: forget it.

speaker1: so you're from wilmington, huh? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: where'd you go to school?
speaker2: um... saint vitus academy.
speaker1: st. vitus? you're making that up.
speaker2: you're acquainted with every school in the area?
speaker1: pretty much, yeah.
speaker2: including all the catholic ones? because that's where i went. saint vitus academy for catholic boys.
speaker1: okay, fine...
speaker2: we had a class together, you know.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: intro to modern philosophy.
speaker1: what? there were about a million people in that class. it was like woodstock. did you ever see so many eastern religion types? so, what's your major?

speaker1: eastern religions. 
speaker2: no. why?
speaker1: i don't know. i just assumed...
speaker2: why would you assume anything about me? we just met.
speaker1: i don't know... i guess you just...
speaker2: try engineering.
speaker1: nietzsche's theory of eternal recurrence.
speaker2: which is basically reincarnation, right?
speaker1: no, they're not really the same thing. reincarnation is when you come back as something different and eternal recurrence is when you

speaker1: next gas station you see, do me a favor and pull over. i gotta pee. 
speaker2: okay, i'll keep my eyes peeled.
speaker1: that phrase. `keeping your eyes peeled.' it's kind of creepy, if you think about it.
speaker2: huh. actually, yeah, it is sorta.
speaker1: they use a laser.
speaker2: well, yeah, they do... but there's definitely peeling involved too. i saw it on discovery health. if more people knew about the peeling part they might think twice before going under the knife.
speaker1: laser.
speaker2: right, laser.
speaker1: i'm having corrective eye surgery over the break.

speaker1: oh. 
speaker2: it's okay. i'm not really worried.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i'm not worried?
speaker1: you're getting it done...
speaker2: because i hate wearing glasses.
speaker1: but they look good on you.
speaker2: how do you know? i don't wear them outside my dorm.
speaker1: you sure? you never... to class or anything? because i could swear i-
speaker2: never.
speaker1: huh. weird. i wonder why i thought-
speaker1: wind chill - yellow revisions 2/23/05 14.

speaker1: i thought you had to pee? 
speaker2: i didn't expect us to find a bathroom so soon. my nails aren't dry.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: that's okay, they'll be dry in just a second.
speaker1: come on, i'm good at this...
speaker2: you are not carrying me inside.
speaker1: hold on.
speaker2: what are you doing?! wait -

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you can let me down now.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: didn't you hear me banging in there? 
speaker2: when?
speaker1: you think it's funny? me locked in?
speaker2: locked in where?
speaker1: you're telling me you didn't just hear me banging on the door?
speaker2: i don't know what you're-
speaker1: forget it. let's just get on the road.
speaker3: remember, highway's your best bet-
speaker2: don't worry about it man, i got it all covered.

speaker1: are we lost or something? 
speaker2: no, i've made this drive a million times.

speaker1: what's that for? 
speaker2: my half of the gas.
speaker1: keep it.
speaker2: what do you mean? isn't that how ride-sharing works? -- we split everything fifty-fifty?
speaker1: i don't take money from friends. since when are they friends?

speaker1: what the are you doing!? 
speaker2: scenic detour.
speaker1: no way! get back on the highway.
speaker2: relax, i checked it out on the map.

speaker1: i mean it, get back on the highway right now! this is not going to happen! 
speaker2: will you chill. it's a shortcut. we'll be back on the highway before you know it. hard to argue with a shortcut...

speaker1: not many radio stations out here. 
speaker2: we're in a valley. fm radio waves travel in a straight line. they can't penetrate big obstacles like hills. try am.

speaker1: where were you when i was flunking freshman physics? 
speaker2: so... does your family do the whole traditional christmas thing?
speaker1: no, my grandparents are dutch, so i was raised on salted licorice and sinterklaas...
speaker2: how's that different from the regular santa claus?
speaker1: instead of the north pole, he lives in spain. and instead of elves he's got an enforcer named black pete. basically he's like your santa, only scarier.
speaker2: charming.
speaker1: what's your christmas like?
speaker2: my folks split my freshman year, so i spend the holidays racing between them. two trees... two turkey dinners...two sets of presents to return for store credit. so normally i can deal, but this year mom decided to rent a condo at the beach. which is like, what? two hours away.
speaker1: i don't know. the beach can be sort of nice in the winter. romantic.

speaker1: so were you a rehobeth beach family or stone harbor? 
speaker2: stone harbor.
speaker1: we always went to rehobeth. year in and year out... i've never been more bored in my life. i was always so jealous of my friends who spent summers at the jersey shore.
speaker2: me too.
speaker1: stone harbor is the jersey shore.
speaker2: hm? oh, yeah, i know. what i meant was-
speaker1: you aren't from delaware, are you?
speaker2: well, see, it's kind of complicated-
speaker1: who are you?!
speaker2: i'm exactly who i said i was, am, it's just-
speaker1: what the hell's going on here?
speaker2: nothing's going on-

speaker1: you think he doesn't see us? 
speaker2: how can he not?

speaker1: pull over and let this by. 
speaker2: over where? there's no shoulder.
speaker3: rockin' around, the christmas tree, at the christ-mas par-ty hop...

speaker1: he's not stopping! 
speaker2: hold on!
speaker3: rockin' around, the christmas tree, have a happy hol-i-day. everyone's dancing mer-ri-ly in the new. old.

speaker1: ... please... please... please... 
speaker2: what are you doing? she screams, spins around.
speaker1: c-calling 9-1-1. or trying to.
speaker2: any luck?
speaker1: can't... i can't get a signal here. he receives this news with a strange calm. girl what about yours?
speaker2: i don't have a cell.
speaker1: how can you not have a cell?
speaker2: how're you doing? you all right?
speaker1: i... yeah, i'm okay. nothing broken... what about you?
speaker2: i don't know. think i hit my head.

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: who ran us off the road.
speaker1: i don't know. i guess maybe he decided just to hit and run.
speaker2: so where are his tire tracks?
speaker1: in case you haven't noticed, it's coming down pretty hard.

speaker1: i guess we see how bad we're stuck. 
speaker2: ready?
speaker1: ready!

speaker1: better get used to it, 
speaker2: what the is wrong with you? what did i do?
speaker1: you drove us here, that's what you did!! what the did you think you were doing!?
speaker2: i thought i was driving you home.
speaker1: you're not driving me home because one, you don't live near my home and two, this piece of isn't driving anywhere. now what are we doing here? why did you get off the highway?
speaker2: i told you, this is a shortcut. anyway, you were the one who said she was so bored on the highway. this used to be called `scenic 606' because there's an amazing view of the valley-
speaker1: one, you've never been anywhere near here before so don't pretend you knew it's a shortcut, and two, there's an amazing view of
speaker2: let me get this straight. you think i intentionally arranged for us get stranded out here?! it was an

speaker1: maybe! maybe he's like your black pete or something! why the did you tell me that story anyway? 
speaker2: you're crazy...
speaker1: anyway, i've got news for you... i got through to a friend's voicemail while you were supposedly unconscious. i'm sure she's called the cops by now.
speaker2: would you listen to yourself? what kind of psycho do you think i am?
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: i'm gonna walk back to the gas station for help. you've got the heater and the radio, so you should be all right here. though i really think you should consider coming with me.
speaker1: i bet you do.
speaker2: fine. whatever. if you feel a draft and you want to patch this...

speaker1: hey. she screams. guy calm down. it's just me. 
speaker2: stay away from me!
speaker1: whoa! take it easy. what's wrong?
speaker2: you! everything! the guy-
speaker1: what guy?

speaker1: i don't know, it was weird. i saw some guy walking down the road. 
speaker2: where did he go?
speaker1: i don't know. into the woods.
speaker2: look. it's freezing out here. let's just get in the car and you can tell me what happened...
speaker1: what are you doing back so soon? what about hiking to the gas station?
speaker2: it was closed. i was going to leave a note, but i didn't... you know. have anything to write with.
speaker1: but those places are supposed to stay open 24/7! why wasn't it open?
speaker2: how the should i know?! independent operator. look, can we continue this conversation in the car, `cause i'm freezing my off standing out here.
speaker1: i'm not getting into the car with you, you psycho!!!

speaker1: relax. 
speaker2: that's not right. the clock...
speaker1: huh? no, it's not. it should read...

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're bleeding.
speaker2: it's nothing...
speaker1: it doesn't look like nothing.
speaker2: scalp wounds bleed a lot. head wounds in general. that's why, if you're ever in a bar fight, the thing to do is pick up a bottle and smash the other guy across the bridge of his nose. it'll make his eyes fill with blood and snot, and buy you enough time to run away.
speaker1: that's really useful, thanks.

speaker1: place called glens falls... 
speaker2: that's not in delaware.
speaker1: no...
speaker2: that's, like, in the complete opposite direction!
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: that's like twenty minutes from school!
speaker1: all right, all right, so i lied...
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i just thought you seemed cool. i don't have a line or a `game' or whatever the it's called. so when i saw a chance to get you alone for six uninterrupted hours, i took it.
speaker2: but how did you know where i lived?
speaker1: asked around.
speaker2: which explains how you found out i was from delaware... but not how you knew i needed a ride home. i mean, i always fly. how could you possibly know that for, like the

speaker1: forgive me for attempting a romantic gesture. 
speaker2: romantic? try stalkerish.
speaker1: not if things worked out between us...i would've told you everything eventually, and then it wouldn't be stalkerish. it would just be this sweet funny story we'd have.
speaker2: we?!

speaker1: okay, you've made your point! i'm a creep who gets off on chauffeuring women under false pretenses. can we drop this already? christ. i'm starving. you hungry? 
speaker2: no. oh, i think i might've left it in the parking lot.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: i'm sorry. it was an accident-
speaker1: i spent sixty bucks on this gourmet you like! saint andre's cheese and carr's crackers and those stupid little french pickles, i forget what they're called-
speaker2: cornichons... i love cornichons.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1:  
speaker2: let go, goddamnit...

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: give them to me!
speaker1: no!!!
speaker2: i need these.

speaker1: i still can't believe you left all our food in a stupid parking lot. 
speaker2: look, i'm sorry, okay? i'll write you a check for sixty bucks if it will make you get off my case. i don't know what else i can say.
speaker1: let's just eat.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you. girls. women. you seem cool at first.

speaker1: what the are you talking about? 
speaker2: you should all come with a warning, like car mirrors: "objects in belly shirts are flakier than they appear."
speaker1: you want to talk about fake? how about guys who pretend to be from delaware to meet girls?
speaker2: how about we just stop talking altogether.
speaker1: that's perfect. because now that i'm not some nietzche-spouting sexbot, suddenly i'm not worth knowing. and who's fault is that?

speaker1: gas. 
speaker2: oh
speaker1: fuel tank must've been ruptured in the accident.
speaker2: can you fix it?
speaker1: not unless you have a welding rig in all that of yours. and even if you did, it wouldn't matter.
speaker2: but we still have the battery, right?
speaker1: as long as we use it sparingly, it should last the night. question is, will we?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: no engine... no heat.

speaker1: but i didn't bring anything. 
speaker2: ah,
speaker1: i'm sorry, but who could prepare for something like this?! i've got a complete winter wardrobe, it's just in delaware... and no, that doesn't make me a flake! he unzips his suitcase. starts pulling out ragg socks, long- sleeve pullovers, etc.

speaker1: what's the matter? 
speaker2: i'm freezing. i can't feel my toes.
speaker1: me neither.
speaker2: dream on.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: gotta pee.
speaker1: why didn't you go before, when we were outside?
speaker2: because it's freezing out. we're talking about an arctic air mass out of canada.

speaker1: it's still freezing out- 
speaker2: yeah, but now i've got to go. promise not to look.

speaker1: what?! what happened?! 
speaker2: - did you see? - they were right here! -
speaker1: why didn't you stop them?! maybe they have a phone!

speaker1: where'd they go?! 
speaker2: there!

speaker1: gotta - just a sec - catch my - 
speaker2: maybe we should go back to the car.
speaker1: no! there must be a house or something. keep going. i'll catch up.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: ...please, officer, please don't... 
speaker2: wait!
speaker1: ...don't put me in the river...
speaker2: oh my who did this to you?!
speaker1: ...please, officer, just take the booze and let me go... she reaches toward him.

speaker1: what happened to you!? this looks like... oh jesus... like frostbite! 
speaker2: i tried to... touch him...it burns.

speaker1: where'd these come from? 
speaker2: there's the ruins of an old house or something back in the woods.
speaker1: oh... give me the duct tape...

speaker1: are you awake? 
speaker2: uh-huh. d-don't want to sleep.
speaker1: why?

speaker1: everything all right in there? 
speaker2: thank you don't know how glad we are to see you...
speaker3: ...you won't believe what's been happening...
speaker1: having car trouble, huh?
speaker2: someone ran us off the road.
speaker1: there's no parking here.
speaker3: what are you talking about? we're not parking here. didn't you hear what she said? someone ran us off-

speaker1: ...of course i might be willing to let you off with a warning this time... if we can come to some sort of arrangement... 
speaker2: what are you talking ab-
speaker3: it's a shake-down. he's probably partners with the guy who ran us off the road. wouldn't be surprised if he has a deal with the tow guy, too.
speaker2: you think this whole thing was a scam? he could've killed us!

speaker1: this is all we have. 
speaker2: some weather we're having...
speaker1: yeah, it's really coming down. so what do you say? how `bout a little christmas spirit here?
speaker2: you know, this is one bad stretch of road. all kinds of trouble going on up here: kids drag racing. hauling booze across the state lines. lady drivers breaking down, no-one ever hears from them again...
speaker1: we just want to get out of here, so if you could just- she holds out the money, but he ignores it.
speaker2: let me tell you, i've seen a lot of fatalities on this road...

speaker1: no... 
speaker2: get in the patrol car...
speaker1: please... just let us go...

speaker1: hurry up...we've got an audience... 
speaker2: but we didn't do anything! please!
speaker3: get away from her you bastard!

speaker1: what just... out there...? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: but it did happen, right? or not...

speaker1: do it. 
speaker2: frostbite, second and third-degree.
speaker1: how do you know? you take a first aid course or something?
speaker2: ski camp, seventh grade... don't make fun. what else do you have going on when you're thirteen?
speaker1: i'm kinda not in the mood anymore.
speaker2: we have to rewarm your hands. you have ice crystals in your blood. if we don't get circulation restored you could lose your fingers.

speaker1: what do you mean? you were there. 
speaker2: i know, but who was he? where'd he go? it's like one minute there's a, a gun to my head and the next all the lights go out and he's gone, like a, like a-
speaker1: ghost.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: yes. and the old guys we chased-
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what then? how do you explain-
speaker2: i don't know! this is crazy! i can't be having this conversation.
speaker1: you're having it.
speaker2: i don't want to!
speaker1: you think i do?! i'm just as freaked by what's happening as you. but we have to deal with it, `cause like it or not, it is happening...

speaker1: then how do we make it stop? 
speaker2: i don't know. they don't cover this in philosophy 101.
speaker1: what about that book, in the back?
speaker2: what book?
speaker1: something book of the dead.
speaker2: tibetan. it's not a how-to manual. it's an 8th century buddhist guide on death and dying.
speaker1: why is this happening to us?
speaker2: i can feel your stomach rumbling.
speaker1: i know. i'd give anything for some of those carr's crackers right now...
speaker2: um, let's see. duck liver patã© with truffles.
speaker1: oh no...

speaker1: some olives, the normal kind and also some of the little shrivelled black ones. a bottle of white wine... 
speaker2: mmmmm...
speaker1: and for dessert, anisette biscotti and a thermos of espresso.
speaker2: ohhhh...
speaker1: can't be too much longer until dawn. someone's bound to come along then. a snowplow or something.
speaker2: how are your hands?
speaker1: starting to burn...
speaker2: that's good. it means the circulation's coming back.
speaker1: yeah, but i mean really burn...
speaker2: hang on. i think i have a few tylenol-with-codeine in my purse.

speaker1: what's taking so long, nurse - 
speaker2: i just-

speaker1: "... hearing the crash on nearby route 606, they braved inclement weather to administer last rights..." 
speaker2: that must be what we saw them doing!
speaker1: "... also killed was state highway patrolman... continued on page seven."
speaker2: you got that tylenol?
speaker1: coming.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'll go first. you get some sleep.

speaker1: thank you were having some kind of seizure or someth- 
speaker2: you will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear... voices singing "let's be jolly, deck the halls with boughs of holly"...

speaker1: what's happening!? 
speaker2: it's him! hurry! help me!

speaker1: rockin' around, the christmas tree, have a happy hol-i-day... 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker3: i think... he's gone. i guess when he couldn't get in he gave up. i told you these `88 olds were built like tanks!

speaker1: shhh! how do you know it's not a trick! he could still be out there waiting- 
speaker2: he's not! listen!
speaker1: but what if he comes back..?
speaker2: we just have to stay in the car until morning. then we'll be safe. that can't be more than, like, a few more hours... someone's bound to come along once the sun comes up... someone human i mean. think you can hold on until then?
speaker1: what if, you know. we have to pee?
speaker2: we can use the empty water bottles. from this point on, the back seat is a co-ed bathroom. sound like a plan? sounds like a plan. guy why don't you try to get some sleep? i'll take the next watch.

speaker1: i gotta pee... 
speaker2: again?!
speaker1: stop talking.
speaker2: you should ask santa to bring you a bigger bladder.

speaker1: i'm serious! it's hard enough doing this in front of you. 
speaker2: what, are you one of those people who can't pee with the bathroom door open?
speaker1: no. but it's not something i
speaker2: no big deal. just your average day in the nhl...
speaker1: how long have you known?
speaker2: since i tried hiking back to the gas station. you were right, i never got anywhere near it. i

speaker1: why didn't you tell me? 
speaker2: i didn't want to scare you-

speaker1: we've got to get you some help now. you won't make it to morning. i'm going to try and hike back to the gas station- 
speaker2: how far do you think you'd get out there before running into mr.
speaker1: i'm not going to just sit here and watch you die!
speaker2: what are you looking at?
speaker1: telephone poles. they must have a junction box or something to test the lines ... there! see that one?
speaker2: so?

speaker1: so maybe there's some way i can... i don't know... jack into it or something. try and call for help. 
speaker2: you want to climb a telephone pole?
speaker1: of course i don't want to! but it's got rungs. can't be any harder than the climbing wall at my gym. big fat repair guys do it all the time, right? right?
speaker2: but you're forgetting one thing...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: he's out there. they both go quiet.
speaker1: the song! that old christmas song on the radio. it always comes on just before he shows up... she switches on the radio.
speaker1: wind chill - yellow revisions 2/23/05 79.

speaker1: i've been thinking... 
speaker2: what about?
speaker1: eternal recurrence. maybe it wouldn't be so bad.
speaker2: what wouldn't?
speaker1: repeating this life. over and over.
speaker2: even the last twenty-four hours?

speaker1: nine-one-one emergency response. 
speaker2: thank hi! hello! we need help!
speaker1: what's that? can you repeat-
speaker2: we're on highway 606! oh please hurry! we need help! my friend is hurt-
speaker1: can you repeat your-

speaker1: dispatch, come in... 
speaker2: go ahead...
speaker1: i'm out at the site of that reported accident on 606. one of them didn't make it. i'm taking the other directly to the trauma unit in hadleyville.
speaker2: copy that.

speaker1: what about those ruins up on the hill? the retirement home for old priests? 
speaker2: tragic story. winter of `61 they were all found froze to death in their beds...

speaker1: no!!! 
speaker1: wind chill - yellow revisions 2/23/05 93.

speaker1: no!!! don't go near it!!! 
speaker2: what!!? we have to get him out of there...
speaker1: doesn't matter! he's already dead!
speaker2: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: should've known you vultures would turn up...
speaker2: try not to move, officer, you might have a neck injury.
speaker3: what are you waiting for, a letter from the bishop?

speaker1: wait! 
speaker2: ...i would've told you everything eventually...
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: ...then it wouldn't be stalkerish.
speaker1: i know!
speaker2: ... it would just be this sweet funny story we'd have...

