speaker1: now remember, keep your shoulders back. 
speaker2: okay, put your arm around your brother. that's it. and breathe in.
speaker3: okay, one more.
speaker4: now just to review, you're going to follow along the procession until you get to the headmaster. at that point he will indicate to you to light the candles of the boys.
speaker5: all right boys, let's settle down.
speaker5: banners up.
speaker6: ladies and gentlemen, boys, the light of knowledge.

speaker1: tradition, honor, discipline, excellence. the boys quickly return to their seats. 
speaker2: in her first year, welton academy graduated five students. last year we graduated fifty-one. and

speaker1: glad you could come by. 
speaker2: thrilling ceremony as usual dr. nolan.
speaker1: you've been away too long.
speaker3: hello dr. nolan.
speaker1: good to have you back.
speaker3: this is our youngest, todd.
speaker1: mr. anderson.you have some big shoes to fill, young man. your brother was one of our finest.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker5: lovely ceremony.
speaker1: thank you. so glad you liked it.
speaker6: gale
speaker1: tom
speaker6: good to see you again.
speaker7: hello mr. nolan.
speaker1: neil. we expect great things from you this year.
speaker7: thank you, sir.
speaker6: well he won't disappoint us. right neil?
speaker7: i'll do my best sir.

speaker1: hey, come on son. 
speaker2: chin up.
speaker1: no tears now.
speaker3: okay.
speaker2: chin up.
speaker3: i don't want to go here.
speaker2: you be a good boy and do your lessons.
speaker4: neil emerges from a building and sees todd.
speaker5: hey, i hear we're gonna be roommates.
speaker5: i'm neil perry.
speaker6: todd anderson.
speaker5: why'd you leave balincrest?
speaker6: my brother went here.
speaker5: oh, so you're that anderson.

speaker1: all right fine. 
speaker2: did you remember your vaporizer?
speaker3: yes, i put it in my room.

speaker1: hey, how's it going neil? 
speaker2: hey knox.
speaker3: neil, study group tonight?
speaker2: yeah, sure.

speaker1: oops! 
speaker2: listen, don't mind cameron. he was born with his foot in his mouth. you know what i mean?
speaker3: rumor has it, you did summer school.

speaker1: keen. 
speaker1: meeks. door. closed.
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker3: gentlemen, what are the four pillars?
speaker4: travesty. horror. decadence. excrement.

speaker1: sure. cameron asked me too. anyone mind including him? 
speaker2: hmm, what's his specialty, boot-licking?
speaker1: come on, he's your roommate.
speaker2: that's not my fault.
speaker3: oh, i'm sorry, my name is steven meeks.
speaker1: oh, this is todd anderson.
speaker3: nice to meet you.
speaker4: nice to meet you.
speaker2: charlie dalton.
speaker5: knox overstreet.
speaker1: todd's brother was jeffrey anderson.

speaker1: he flatters me. that's why i help him with latin. 
speaker2: and english, and trig.
speaker3: it's open.
speaker3: father, i thought you'd gone.
speaker4: mr. perry.

speaker1: but i'm the assistant editor this year. 
speaker2: well i'm sorry neil.
speaker1: but father, i can't. it wouldn't be fair.
speaker2: fellas, would you excuse us for a moment?

speaker1: yes sir. 
speaker2: why doesn't he let you do what you want?

speaker1: well, uh, latin, eight o' clock in my room? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: todd, you're welcome to join us.
speaker3: yeah, come along pal.
speaker4: thanks.

speaker1: hey spaz, spaz. 
speaker2: brain damage.
speaker3: well come on.

speaker1: "oh captain, my captain" who knows where that comes from? 
speaker1: not a clue? it's from a poem by walt whitman about mr. abraham lincoln. now in this class you can call me mr. keating. or, if you're slightly more daring, oh captain, my captain.
speaker1: now let me dispel a few rumors so they don't fester into facts. yes, i too attended hell-ton and survived. and no, at that time i was not the mental giant you see before you. i was the intellectual equivalent of a ninety-eight pound weakling. i would go to the beach and people would kick copies of byron in my face.
speaker1: now, mr pitts. that's a rather unfortunate name. mr. pitts, where are you?

speaker1: "to the virgins, to make much of time"? 
speaker2: yes, that's the one. somewhat appropriate, isn't it.
speaker1: "gather ye rosebuds while ye may, old time is still a flying, and this same flower that smiles today, tomorrow will be dying."
speaker2: thank you mr. pitts. "gather ye rosebuds while ye may." the latin term for that sentiment is carpe diem. now who knows what that means? meeks immediately puts his hand up.
speaker3: carpe diem. that's "seize the day."
speaker2: very good, mr.-
speaker3: meeks.
speaker2: meeks. another unusual name. seize the day. gather ye rosebuds while ye may.
speaker4: because he's in a hurry.
speaker2: no, ding!
speaker2: thank you for playing anyway. because we are food for worms lads. because, believe it or not, each and every one of us in this room is one day going to stop breathing, turn cold, and die.
speaker2: now i would like you to step forward over here and peruse some of the faces from the past. you've walked past them many times. i don't think you've really looked at them.
speaker2: they're not that different from you, are they? same haircuts. full of hormones, just like you. invincible, just like you feel. the world is their oyster. they believe they're destined for great things, just like many of you. their eyes are full of hope, just like you. did they wait until it was too late to make from their lives even one iota of what they were capable? because you see gentlmen, these boys are now fertilizing daffodils. but if you listen real close, you can hear them whisper their legacy to you. go on, lean in.
speaker2: carpe.
speaker2: hear it? carpe. carpe diem. seize the day boys, make your lives extraordinary.

speaker1: that was weird. 
speaker2: but different.
speaker3: spooky if you ask me.
speaker4: think he'll test us on that stuff?
speaker5: come on cameron, don't you get anything?
speaker4: what? what?

speaker1: let's go boys, hustle up in here. that means you dalton. 
speaker2: okay, who's up for a trig study group tonight guys?
speaker3: me.
speaker4: me.
speaker5: what?
speaker6: i can't make it guys. i have to have dinner at the danburry's house.
speaker3: the danburry's? who are the danburry's?
speaker7: big alumns. how'd you swing that?
speaker6: friends of my dad's. they're probably in their nineties or something.
speaker5: ooh!
speaker4: anything's better than hell-ton hash.
speaker5: i'll second that.
speaker6: yeah we'll see.
speaker4: hey, you coming to the study group tonight?
speaker8: uh, no, no i, uh, i've got some history i wanna do.
speaker4: suit yourself.

speaker1: ready overstreet? 
speaker2: ready to go sir.

speaker1: chet, can you get that? 
speaker2: i can't, mom.
speaker3: i'll get it.
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker4: hi. knox overstreet. uh, dr. hager.
speaker3: hi.
speaker4: this is the danburry's, right?
speaker3: are you here to see chet?
speaker4: mrs. danburry?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: sorry. thank you chris. i'm mrs. danburry. you must be knox.
speaker4: yes.
speaker1: back by nine. please come in.
speaker2: chris, come on, what are you doing?
speaker3: chet, i'm coming.
speaker5: knox. how are you? joe danburry.
speaker4: nice to meet you sir.
speaker5: well he's the spitting image of his father, isn't he. how is he? come on in.
speaker2: chris!
speaker4: he's great. he just did a big case for gm.
speaker3: i'm coming.
speaker5: i know where you're headed, like father like son, huh?

speaker1: just replace these numbers here with "x", for "x" and "y". 
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: of course, so what's the problem?
speaker3: how was dinner?
speaker4: huh?
speaker3: how was dinner?
speaker4: terrible. awful.
speaker3: why? what happened?
speaker4: tonight, i met the most beautiful girl in my entire life.
speaker2: are you crazy? what's wrong with that?
speaker4: she's practically engaged. to chet danburry.
speaker3: that guy could eat a football.
speaker5: that's too bad.
speaker4: too bad? it's worse than too bad pitsie, it's a tragedy. a girl this beautiful in love with such a jerk.
speaker5: all the good ones go for jerks, you know that.
speaker1: ahh, forget her. open your trig book and try and figure out problem five.
speaker4: i can't just forget her cameron. and i can't think about trig.
speaker5: we got it.
speaker6: holy cow.
speaker7: all right gentlemen, five minutes. let's go.
speaker3: did you see her naked?
speaker4: very funny dalton.
speaker7: that wouldn't be a radio in your lap, would it mr. pitts?
speaker5: no sir. science experiment, radar.

speaker1: gentlemen, open your text to page twenty-one of the introduction. mr. perry, will you read the opening paragraph of the preface, entitled "understanding poetry"? 
speaker2: understanding poetry, by dr. j. evans pritchard, ph.d. to fully understand poetry, we must first be fluent with its meter, rhyme, and figures of speech. then ask two questions: one, how artfully has the objective of the poem been rendered, and two, how important is that objective. question one rates the poem's perfection, question two rates its importance. and once these questions have been answered, determining a poem's greatest becomes a relatively simple matter.
speaker2: if the poem's score for perfection is plotted along the horizontal of a graph, and its importance is plotted on the vertical, then calculating the total area of the poem yields the measure of its greatness.
speaker2: a sonnet by byron may score high on the vertical, but only average on the horizontal. a shakespearean sonnet, on the other hand, would score high both horizontally and vertically, yielding a massive total area, thereby revealing the poem to be truly great. as you proceed through the poetry in this book, practice this rating method. as your ability to evaluate poems in this matter grows, so will - so will your enjoyment and understanding of poetry.
speaker1: excrement. that's what i think of mr. j. evans pritchard. we're not laying pipe, we're talking about poetry.
speaker1: i mean, how can you describe poetry like american bandstand? i like byron, i give him a 42, but i can't dance to it.
speaker1: now i want you to rip out that page.
speaker1: go on, rip out the entire page. you heard me, rip it out. rip it out!
speaker1: go on, rip it out.
speaker1: thank you mr. dalton. gentlemen, tell you what, don't just tear out that page, tear out the entire introduction. i want it gone, history. leave nothing of it. rip it out. rip! begone j. evans pritchard, ph.d. rip, shred, tear. rip it out. i want to hear nothing but ripping of mr. pritchard.
speaker1: we'll perforate it, put it on a roll.
speaker1: it's not the bible, you're not going to go to for this. go on, make a clean tear, i want nothing left of it.
speaker3: we shouldn't be doing this.
speaker2: rip, rip, rip!
speaker1: rip it out, rip!
speaker4: what the is going on here?
speaker1: i don't hear enough rips.
speaker4: mr. keating.
speaker1: mr. mcallister.
speaker4: i'm sorry, i- i didn't know you were here.
speaker1: i am.
speaker4: ahh, so you are. excuse me.
speaker1: keep ripping gentlemen. this is a battle, a war. and the casualties could be your hearts and souls.
speaker1: thank you mr. dalton. armies of academics going forward, measuring poetry. no, we will not have that here. no more of mr. j. evans pritchard. now in my class you will learn to think for yourselves again. you will learn to savor words and language. no matter what anybody tells you, words and ideas can change the world. i see that look in mr. pitt's eye, like nineteenth century literature has nothing to do with going to business school or medical school. right? maybe. mr. hopkins, you may agree with him, thinking "yes, we should simply study our mr. pritchard and learn our rhyme and meter and go quietly about the business of achieving other ambitions." i have a little secret for ya. huddle up. huddle up!
speaker1: we don't read and write poetry because it's cute. we read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. and the human race is filled with passion. medicine, law, business, engineering, these are all noble pursuits, and necessary to sustain life. but poetry, beauty, romance, love, these are what we stay alive for. to quote from whitman: "o me, o life of the questions of these recurring, of the endless trains of the faithless, of cities filled with the foolish. what good amid these, o me, o life? answer: that you are here. that life exists, and identity. that the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse. that the powerful play goes on and you may contribute a verse. keating looks up at todd. keating what will your verse be?

speaker1: for what we are about to receive, may the lord make us truly grateful. amen. 
speaker2: quite an interesting class you gave today, mr. keating.
speaker3: i'm sorry if i shocked you, mr. mcallister.
speaker2: oh, there's no need to apologize. it was very fascinating, misguided though it was.
speaker3: you think so?
speaker2: you take a big risk by encouraging them to be artists john. when they realize they're not rembrandts, shakespeares or mozarts, they'll hate you for it.
speaker3: we're not talking artists george, we're talking free thinkers.
speaker2: free thinkers at seventeen?
speaker3: funny, i never pegged you as a cynic.
speaker2: not a cynic, a realist. show me the heart unfettered by foolish dreams, and i'll show you a happy man.
speaker3: but only in their dreams can man be truly free. 'twas always thus, and always thus will be.
speaker2: tennyson?
speaker3: no, keating.

speaker1: hey, i found his senior annual in the library. 
speaker1: listen to this, captain of the soccer team, editor of the school annual, cambridge bound, thigh man, and the dead poets society.
speaker2: man most likely to do anything.
speaker3: thigh man. mr. k was a hell-raiser.
speaker4: what's the dead poets society?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker5: is there a picture in the annual?
speaker1: nothing. no other mention of it.
speaker6: that boy there, see me after lunch.

speaker1: mr. keating? mr. keating? sir? oh captain, my captain? keating immediately turns around. 
speaker2: gentlemen.
speaker1: we were just looking in your old annual.
speaker2: oh my no, that's not me. stanley "the tool" wilson-
speaker2: 
speaker1: what was the dead poets society?
speaker2: i doubt the present administration would look too favorably upon that.
speaker1: why? what was it?
speaker2: gentlemen, can you keep a secret?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: the dead poets were dedicated to sucking the marrow out of life. that's a phrase from thoreau that we'd invoke at the beginning of each meeting. you see we'd gather at the old indian cave and take turns reading from thoreau, whitman, shelley; the biggies. even some of our own verse. and in the enchantment of the moment we'd let poetry work its magic.
speaker3: you mean it was a bunch of guys sitting around reading poetry?
speaker2: no mr. overstreet, it wasn't just "guys", we weren't a greek organization, we were romantics. we didn't just read poetry, we let it drip from our tongues like honey. spirits soared, women swooned, and gods were created, gentlemen, not a bad way to spend an evening eh? thank you mr. perry for this trip down amnesia lane. burn that, especially my picture.
speaker1: dead poets society.
speaker4: what?
speaker1: i say we go tonight.
speaker5: tonight?
speaker4: wait a minute.
speaker6: where's this cave he's talking about?
speaker1: it's beyond the stream. i know where it is.
speaker6: that's miles.
speaker4: sounds boring to me.
speaker5: don't go.
speaker4: you know how many de-merits we're talking dalton
speaker5: so don't come, please.
speaker4: look, all i'm saying is that we have to be careful, we can't get caught.
speaker5: no sherlock.
speaker7: you boys there, hurry up.
speaker1: all right, who's in?
speaker4: come on neil, hager's right-
speaker1: forget hager, no. who's in?
speaker5: i'm in.
speaker7: i'm warning you, move.
speaker4: me too.
speaker6: i don't know neil
speaker1: what? pitts-
speaker5: pitsie, come on.
speaker8: his grades are hurting charlie.
speaker1: you can help him meeks.
speaker6: what is this, a midnight study group?
speaker1: forget it pitts, you're coming. meeks, are your grades hurting too?
speaker8: i'll try anything once.
speaker5: except sex.
speaker8: ha ha ha.
speaker4: i mean as long as we're careful.
speaker5: what about you knox?
speaker3: i don't know charlie.
speaker5: come on knox, it'll help you get chris.
speaker3: yeah? how?
speaker5: women swoon.
speaker3: but why do they swoon? charlie, tell me why they swoon. charlie!

speaker1: okay, follow the stream to the waterfall. it's right there. it's got to be on the banks. 
speaker2: i don't know, it's starting to sound dangerous.
speaker3: well, why don't you stay home?
speaker4: for sake stop chattering and sit down.
speaker1: todd, are you coming tonight?
speaker5: no.
speaker1: why not? you were there. you heard keating. don't you want to do something about it?
speaker5: yes, but-
speaker1: but? but what?
speaker5: keating said that everybody took turns reading and i don't want to do that.
speaker1: gosh, you really have a problem with that, don't you?
speaker5: n- no, i don't have a problem. neil, i just- i just don't want to do it, okay?
speaker1: all right. what if you didn't have to read? what if you just came and listened?
speaker5: that's not how it works.
speaker1: forget how it works. what if - what if they said it was okay?
speaker5: what? what are you gonna do, go up and ask them?
speaker5: no. no, neil.
speaker1: i'll be right back.
speaker5: neil, neil!
speaker4: oh shut up, will you.

speaker1: that's my- that's for my asthma, okay. could you give that back please? could you give that back? 
speaker2: what's the matter? don't you like snakes? neil enters and taps todd on the shoulder.
speaker3: you're in.
speaker1: get away from me, okay?
speaker2: spaz, why don't you check your pocket, huh? come on spaz i have to brush my teeth
speaker1: get a- get off,
speaker4: cut out that racket in there.

speaker1: arrr, i'm a dead poet. 
speaker2: aww, charlie.
speaker1: guys, over here.
speaker2: you're funny. you're real funny.

speaker1: it's too wet. 
speaker2: are you trying to smoke us out of here?
speaker1: no, no, the smoke's going right up this opening.
speaker3: you okay?
speaker4: oh clowns.
speaker3: all right, all right, forget the fire. let's go gentlemen.
speaker3: i hereby reconvene the dead poets society.
speaker3: welton chapter. the meetings will be conducted by myself and the other new initiates now present. todd anderson, because he prefers not to read, will keep minutes of the meetings. i'll now read the traditional opening message by society member henry david thoreau. "i went to the woods because i wanted to live deliberately. i wanted to live deep and out all the marrow of life."
speaker2: i'll second that.
speaker3: "to put to rout all that was not life, and not, when i had come to die, discover that i had not lived.
speaker3: and keating's marked a bunch of other pages.
speaker2: all right, intermission. dig deep right here. right here, lay it down
speaker5: on the mud? we're gonna put our food on the mud?
speaker2: meeks, put your coat down. picnic blanket.
speaker1: yes sir, use meeks' coat.
speaker2: don't keep anything back either. you guys are always bumming my smokes.
speaker3: raisins?
speaker6: yuck.
speaker2: wait a minute, who gave us half a roll?
speaker4: i'm eating the other half.
speaker2: come on.
speaker4: you want me to put it back?

speaker1: it was a dark and rainy night, and this old lady, who had a passion for jigsaw puzzles, sat by herself in her house at her table to complete a new jigsaw puzzle. but as she pieced the puzzle together, she realized, to her astonishment, that the image that was formed was her very own room. and the figure in the center of the puzzle, as she completed it, was herself. and with trembling hands, she placed the last four pieces and stared in horror at the face of a demented madman at the window. the last thing that this old lady ever heard was the sound of breaking glass. 
speaker2: ohhh no
speaker1: this is true, this is true.
speaker3: i've got one that's even better than that.
speaker4: ha!
speaker3: i do. there's a young, married couple, and they're driving through the forest at night on a long trip. and they run out of gas, and there's a madman on the-
speaker4: the thing with the hand-
speaker3: i love that story.
speaker4: i told you that one.
speaker3: you did not. i got that in camp in sixth grade.
speaker4: when were you in six, last year?
speaker5: "in a mean abode in the shanking road, lived a man named william bloat. now, he had a wife, the plague of his life, who continually got his goat. and one day at dawn, with her nightshift on, he slit her throat." the boys laugh.
speaker5: oh, and it gets worse.
speaker4: you want to hear a real poem?
speaker4: all right? no, i don't need it. you take it.
speaker6: what, did you bring one?
speaker1: you memorized a poem?
speaker4: i didn't memorize a poem. move up.
speaker6: an original piece by charlie dalton.
speaker7: an original piece.
speaker5: take center stage.
speaker1: you know this is history. right? this is history.
speaker6: oh, wow.
speaker3: where did you get that?
speaker4: teach me to love? go teach thyself more wit. i, chief professor, am of it.
speaker4: the of love, if such a thing there be, may learn to love from me.
speaker1: wow! did you write that?
speaker4: abraham cowley. okay, who's next?
speaker1: alfred lord tennyson. come my friends, 'tis not too late to seek a newer world for my purpose holds to sail beyond the sunset. and though we are not now that strength which in old days moved earth and heaven; that which we are, we are;-- one equal temper of heroic hearts, made weak by time and fate, but strong in will. to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.
speaker6: then i had religion, then i had a vision. i could not turn from their revel in derision. then i saw the congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track. then i saw the congo creeping through the black-
speaker4: meeks, meeks.
speaker6: ...cutting through the forest with a golden track. then i saw the congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with a golden track.
speaker2: then i saw the congo creeping through the black, cutting through the forest with...

speaker1: a man is not very tire, he is exhausted. and don't use very sad, use- he points to the back of the classroom. 
speaker1: come on, mr. overstreet, you twerp,
speaker2: morose?
speaker1: exactly! morose. now, language was developed for one endeavor, and that is? mr. anderson? come on! are you a man or an amoeba?
speaker1: mr. perry?
speaker3: uh, to communicate.
speaker1: no! to woo women. today we're going to be talking about william shakespeare.
speaker4: oh,
speaker1: i know. a lot of you looked forward to this about as much as you look forward to root canal work. we're gonna talk about shakespeare as someone who writes something very interesting. now, many of you have seen shakespeare done very much like this:

speaker1: why do i stand up here? anybody? 
speaker2: to feel taller.
speaker1: no!
speaker1: thank you for playing, mr. dalton. i stand upon my desk to remind yourself that we must constantly look at things in a different way.
speaker1: you see, the world looks very different from up here. you don't believe me? come see for yourself. come on. come on!
speaker1: just when you think you know something, you have to look at it in another way. even though it may seem silly or wrong, you must try! now, when you read, don't just consider what the author thinks. consider what you think.
speaker1: boys, you must strive to find your own voice. because the longer you wait to begin, the less likely you are to find it at all. thoreau said, "most men lead lives of quiet desperation." don't be resigned to that. break out!
speaker1: don't just walk off the edge like lemmings. look around you.
speaker1: there! there you go, mr. priske. thank you! yes! dare to strike out and find new ground. now, in addition to your essays, i would like you to compose a poem of your own, an original work.
speaker1: that's right! you have to deliver it aloud in front of the class on monday. bonne chance, gentlemen.
speaker1: mr. anderson? don't think that i don't know that this assignment scares the out of you, you mole.

speaker1: we got it, pittsie. we got it! radio free america! 
speaker2: several students are fencing on a grassy slope.

speaker1: i found it. 
speaker2: you found what?
speaker1: what i wanna do right now. what's really, really inside me.
speaker2: "a midsummer night's dream"?
speaker1: this is it.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: it's a play, dummy.
speaker2: i know that. i-- wh-wh-what does it have to do with you?
speaker1: right. they're putting it on at henley hall. open tryouts. open tryouts!
speaker2: yes, so?
speaker1: so, i'm gonna act. yes, yes! i'm gonna be an actor! ever since i can remember, i've wanted to try this. i even tried to go to summer stock auditions last year, but, of course, my father wouldn't let me. for the first time in my whole life i know what i wanna do.
speaker1: and for the first time i'm gonna do it whether my father wants me to or not!
speaker2: neil, neil, hold on a minute. how are you gonna be in a play if your father won't let you?
speaker1: first i gotta get the part, then i can worry about that.
speaker2: yeah, but won't he kill you if he finds out you went to an audition and didn't even tell him?
speaker1: no, no, no, no. as far as i'm concerned, he won't have to know about any of this.
speaker2: well, that's impossible.
speaker1: nothing's impossible.
speaker2: well, why don't you just call him and ask him? and m-maybe he'll say yes.
speaker1: that's a laugh!
speaker1: if i don't ask him, at least i won't be disobeying him.
speaker2: yeah, but if he said--
speaker1: i mean, i haven't even gotten the part yet. can't i even enjoy the idea for a little while?
speaker1: you're coming to the meeting this afternoon?
speaker2: i don't know. maybe.
speaker1: nothing mr. keating has to say means to you, does it, todd?
speaker2: w-what is that supposed to mean?
speaker1: you're in the club! being in the club means being stirred up by things. you look about as stirred up as a cesspool.
speaker2: so- you want me out?
speaker1: no! i want you in, but being in means you gotta do something. not just say you're in.
speaker2: well, listen, neil. i-i appreciate this concern, but i-i'm not like you. all right? you, you, you say thing and people listen. i'm, i'm not like that.
speaker1: don't you think you could be?
speaker2: no! i--i, i don't know, but that's not the point. the, the, the point is that there's nothing you can do about it, so you can just out. i can take care of myself just fine. all right?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what do you mean, "no"?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: give me-- neil. neil, give that back.
speaker1: "we are dreaming of a--" poetry! i'm being chased by walt whitman! okay, okay.
speaker3: what are you guys doing? i'm sure-- you see this chemistry-
speaker3: hey, give me-- neil, give me-- don't be immature. come on. i need my-
speaker4: give it to me! give it to me!
speaker1: charlie!
speaker3: let me have my book, i need my-

speaker1: now, devotees may argue that one sport or game is inherently better than another. for me, sport is actually a chance for us to have other human beings push us to excel. i want you all to come over here and take a slip of paper and line up single file. 
speaker1: mr. meeks, time to inherit the earth. mr. pitts, rise above your name.
speaker1: i want you to hand these out to the boys, one apiece.

speaker1: you know what to do, pitts. 
speaker2: "oh to struggle against great odds. to meet enemies undaunted."
speaker1: sounds to me like you're daunted. say it again like you're undaunted.
speaker2: "oh to struggle against great odds. to meet enemies undaunted."
speaker1: now go on.
speaker1: yes! next.
speaker3: "to be a sailor of the world, bound for all ports."
speaker1: next. louder!
speaker4: "oh, i live to be the ruler of life, not a slave."
speaker5: "to mount the scaffolds. to advance to the muzzle of guns with perfect nonchalance."
speaker1: come on, meeks! listen to the music.
speaker6: "to dance, clap hands, exalt, shout, skip, roll on, float on."
speaker1: yes!
speaker1: oh! boo! come on, charlie, let it fill your soul!
speaker7: "to indeed be a god!"
speaker8: charlie, i got the part! i'm gonna play puck! i'm gonna play puck! he pounds on charlie's door.
speaker6: what did he say?
speaker2: puck?
speaker8: that's the main part.
speaker9: great, neil.
speaker8: charlie, i got it!
speaker7: congratulations. good for you, neil. good for you.
speaker8: okay, okay, okay, okay.
speaker10: neil, how are you gonna do this?
speaker8: they need a letter of permission from my father and mr. nolan.
speaker10: you're not gonna write it.
speaker8: oh yes, i am.
speaker10: oh, neil. neil, you're crazy.
speaker8: okay. "i am writing to you on behalf of my son neil perry."
speaker8: this is great.

speaker1: "to chris." charlie looks up from his desk with a grin. 
speaker2: who's chris?
speaker3: mmm, chris.
speaker1: i see a sweetness in her smile. blight light shines from her eyes. but life is complete; contentment is mine, just knowing that...
speaker1: just knowing that she's alive.
speaker1: sorry, captain. it's stupid.
speaker4: no, no. it's not stupid. it's a good effort. it touched on one of the major themes, love. a major theme not only in poetry, but life. mr. hopkins, you were laughing. you're up.
speaker5: "the cat sat on the mat."
speaker4: congratulations, mr. hopkins. yours is the first poem to ever have a negative score on the pritchard scale. we're not laughing at you, we're laughing near you. i don't mind that your poem had a simple theme. sometimes the most beautiful poetry can be about simple things, like a cat, or a flower or rain. you see, poetry can come from anything with the stuff of revelation in it. just don't let your poems be ordinary. now, who's next?
speaker4: mr. anderson, i see you sitting there in agony. come on, todd, step up. let's put you out of your misery.
speaker6: i, i didn't do it. i didn't write a poem.
speaker4: mr. anderson thinks that everything inside of him is worthless and embarrassing. isn't that right, todd? isn't that your worst fear? well, i think you're wrong. i think you have something inside of you that is worth a great deal.
speaker4: "i sound my barbaric yawp over the rooftops of the world." w. w. uncle walt again. now, for those of you who don't know, a yawp is a loud cry or yell. now, todd, i would like you to give us a demonstration of a barbaric "yawp." come on. you can't yawp sitting down. let's go. come on. up.
speaker4: you gotta get in "yawping" stance.
speaker6: a yawp?
speaker4: no, not just a yawp. a barbaric yawp.
speaker6: yawp.
speaker4: come on, louder.
speaker6: yawp.
speaker4: no, that's a mouse. come on. louder.
speaker6: yawp.
speaker4: oh, good boy. yell like a man!
speaker6: yawp!
speaker4: there it is. you see, you have a barbarian in you, after all.
speaker4: now, you don't get away that easy.
speaker4: the picture of uncle walt up there. what does he remind you of? don't think. answer. go on. keating begins to circle around todd.
speaker6: a m-m-madman.
speaker4: what kind of madman? don't think about it. just answer again.
speaker6: a c-crazy madman.
speaker4: no, you can do better than that. free up your mind. use your imagination. say the first thing that pops into your head, even if it's total gibberish. go on, go on.
speaker6: uh, uh, a sweaty-toothed madman.
speaker4: good boy, there's a poet in you, after all. there, close your eyes. close your eyes. close 'em. now, describe what you see.
speaker6: uh, i-i close my eyes.
speaker4: yes?
speaker6: uh, and this image floats beside me.
speaker4: a sweaty-toothed madman?
speaker6: a sweaty-toothed madman with a stare that pounds my brain.
speaker4: oh, that's excellent. now, give him action. make him do something.
speaker6: h-his hands reach out and choke me.
speaker4: that's it. wonderful. wonderful.
speaker6: and, and all the time he's mumbling.
speaker4: what's he mumbling?
speaker6: m-mumbling, "truth. truth is like, like a blanket that always leaves your feet cold."
speaker4: forget them, forget them. stay with the blanket. tell me about that blanket.
speaker6: y-y-y-you push it, stretch it, it'll never be enough. you kick at it, beat it, it'll never cover any of us. from the moment we enter crying to the moment we leave dying, it will just cover your face as you wail and cry and scream.
speaker4: don't you forget this.

speaker1: attaboy, pittsie, inhale deeply. 
speaker2: my dad collects a lot of pipes.
speaker1: really? mine's got thirty.
speaker3: your parents collect pipes? oh, that's really interesting.
speaker1: come on, knox. join in.
speaker2: yeah, knox, we're from the government. we're here to help, man.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker3: it's chris. here's a picture of chris for you.
speaker2: smoke that. put that in your pipe and smoke it.
speaker4: that's not funny.
speaker1: knock it off. smoke your pipes.
speaker2: neil!
speaker5: friend, scholar, welton men.
speaker2: what is that, neil?
speaker3: duh. it's a lamp, meeks.
speaker5: no. this is the of the cave.
speaker2: the of the cave.
speaker3: charlie, what are you doing?
speaker1: what do you say we start this meeting?
speaker6: y-yeah, just-- i need a light. i just gotta-
speaker7: got my earplugs?
speaker1: gentlemen, "poetrusic" by charles dalton.
speaker2: oh, no.
speaker1: laughing, crying, tumbling, mumbling. gotta do more. gotta be more.
speaker1: chaos screaming, chaos dreaming. gotta do more! gotta be more!
speaker2: wow!
speaker3: that was nice. that was great. where did you learn to play like that?
speaker1: my parents made me take the clarinet for years.
speaker8: i love the clarinet.
speaker1: i hated it. the saxophone. the saxophone is more sonorous.
speaker8: ooh.
speaker2: vocabulary.
speaker4: i can't take it anymore. if i don't have chris, i'm gonna kill myself.
speaker1: knoxious, you've gotta calm down.
speaker4: no, charlie. that's just my problem. i've been calm all my life. i'll do something about that.
speaker5: where are you going?
speaker1: what are you gonna do?
speaker4: i'm gonna call her.
speaker9: hello?
speaker4: she's gonna hate me. the danburrys will hate me. my parents will kill me. all right, it. you're right. "carpe diem." even if it kills me. knox puts in another coin and calls again.
speaker9: hello?
speaker4: hello, chris?
speaker9: yes.
speaker4: hi. this is knox overstreet.
speaker9: oh, yes. knox. glad you called.
speaker4: she's glad i called.
speaker9: listen, chet's parents are going out of town this weekend, so he's having a party. would you like to come?
speaker4: would i like to come to a party?
speaker1: yes. say, yes.
speaker9: friday? um-
speaker4: well, sure.
speaker9: about seven?
speaker4: okay, great. i-i'll be there, chris.
speaker9: okay.
speaker4: friday night at the danburrys'. o-okay. thank you.
speaker9: okay. bye.
speaker4: thank you. i'll see you. bye.
speaker4: yawp! can you believe it? she was gonna call me. she invited me to a party with her.
speaker1: at chet danburry's house.
speaker4: yeah.
speaker1: well?
speaker4: so?
speaker1: so, you don't really think she means you're going with her?
speaker4: well, of course not, charlie. but that's not the point. that's not the point at all.
speaker1: what is the point?
speaker4: the point, charlie, is, uh--
speaker1: yeah?
speaker4: that she was thinking about me. i've only met her once, and already she's thinking about me. it. it's gonna happen, guys. i feel it. she is going to be mine. carpe. carpe!

speaker1: no grades at stake, gentlemen. just take a stroll. 
speaker1: there it is.
speaker1: i don't know, but i've been told--
speaker2: i don't know, but i've been told--
speaker1: doing poetry is old--
speaker2: doing poetry is old--
speaker1: left, left, left-right-left. left, left, left-right-left. left, halt! the boys come to a halt.
speaker1: thank you, gentlemen. if you noticed, everyone started off with their own stride, their own pace.
speaker1: mr. pitts, taking his time. he knew he'll get there one day. mr. cameron, you could see him thinking, "is this right? it might be right. it might be right. i know that. maybe not. i don't know."
speaker1: mr. overstreet, driven by deeper force. yes. we know that. all right. now, i didn't bring them up here to ridicule them. i brought them up here to illustrate the point of conformity: the difficulty in maintaining your own beliefs in the face of others. now, those of you -- i see the look in your eyes like, "i would've walked differently." well, ask yourselves why you were clapping. now, we all have a great need for acceptance. but you must trust that your beliefs are unique, your own, even though others may think them odd or unpopular, even though the herd may go, "that's baaaaad." robert frost said, "two roads diverged in a wood and i, i took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference." now, i want you to find your own walk right now. your own way of striding, pacing. any direction. anything you want. whether it's proud, whether it's silly, anything. gentlemen, the courtyard is yours.
speaker1: you don't have to perform. just make it for yourself. mr. dalton? you be joining us?
speaker3: exercising the right not to walk.
speaker1: thank you, mr. dalton. you just illustrated the point. swim against the stream.

speaker1: todd? hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker2: nothing. today's my birthday.
speaker1: is today your birthday? happy birthday.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: what's you get?
speaker2: my parents gave me this.
speaker1: isn't this the same desk set-
speaker2: yeah, yeah. they gave me the same thing as last year.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: maybe they thought you needed another one.
speaker2: maybe they weren't thinking about anything at all. uh, the funny thing is about this is i, i didn't even like it the first time.
speaker1: todd, i think you're underestimating the value of this desk set.
speaker1: i mean, who would want a football or a baseball, or-
speaker2: or a car.
speaker1: or a car if they could have a desk set as wonderful as this one? i mean, if, if i were ever going to buy a, a desk set twice, i would probably buy this one both times. in fact, its, its shape is, it's rather aerodynamic, isn't it? i can feel it. this desk set wants to fly.
speaker1: todd? the world's first unmanned flying desk set.
speaker2: oh, my!
speaker1: well, i wouldn't worry. you'll get another one next year.

speaker1: "to live deep and out all the marrow of life. to put to rout all that was not life" 
speaker2: oh, my
speaker3: is this it?
speaker4: yeah, this is it. go ahead, go on in. it's my cave. watch your step.
speaker5: we're not gonna slip, are we?
speaker3: uh-oh.
speaker3: hi.
speaker6: hello.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: hi, you guys. meet, uh, gloria and--
speaker5: tina.
speaker4: tina. this is the pledge class of the dead poets society.

speaker1: hello. how do you do? 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: hi. hi.
speaker4: guys, move. move. come on, folks. it's friday night. let's get on with the meeting.
speaker1: sorry. excuse- excuse me.
speaker4: guys, i have an announcement to make. in keeping with the spirit of passionate experimentation of the dead poets, i'm giving up the name charlie dalton. from now on, call me nuwanda.
speaker5: nuwanda?
speaker2: nuwanda?
speaker6: hello? hello, chris?
speaker7: knox!
speaker6: hi.
speaker7: you made it. great! bring anybody?
speaker6: no.
speaker7: no. ginny danburry's here. wait. i have to go find chet. why don't you go downstairs where everybody is?
speaker7: make yourself at home.
speaker6: but i--

speaker1: hey, you mutt sanders' brother? bubba, this guy look like mutt sanders to you or what? 
speaker2: you're his brother?
speaker3: no relation. never heard of him. sorry, guys.
speaker2: where's your manners steve? mutt sanders' brother, we don't even offer him a drink. here. go have some whiskey, pal.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: whoa, i, uh, i don't really drink--
speaker2: to mutt.
speaker1: to mutt.
speaker3: to mutt.
speaker2: now, how the is old mutt, anyway?
speaker1: yeah. what's ol' mutter been up to, huh?
speaker3: i don't really know mutt.
speaker2: to mighty mutt.
speaker4: to mighty mutt.
speaker3: to mighty mutt.
speaker2: well, listen, i gotta go find patsy. say hello to mutt for me, okay?
speaker3: will do.
speaker1: yeah. of a guy, your brother mutt.

speaker1: we gonna have a meeting or what? 
speaker2: yeah. if you guys don't have a meeting, how do we know if we wanna join?
speaker3: join?
speaker1: "shall i compare thee to a summer's day? thou art more lovely and more temperate."
speaker4: that's so sweet.
speaker1: i made that up just for you.
speaker4: you did?
speaker1: i'll write one for you too, gloria. she walks in beauty like the night. she walks in beauty like the night. of cloudless climes and starry skies. all that's best, dark and bright, meet in her aspect and her eyes.
speaker2: that's beautiful.
speaker1: there's plenty more where that came from.

speaker1: help me. 
speaker1: carpe diem.
speaker2: chet! chet! look!
speaker3: what?
speaker2: it's mutt sanders' brother.
speaker3: huh?
speaker4: knox, what--
speaker2: and he's feeling up your girl!
speaker4: what are you doing?
speaker3: what the are you doing?
speaker4: chet! chet, don't.
speaker1: now, chet, i know this looks bad, but you've gotta-
speaker4: chet, no! you'll hurt him! no! no! stop it! leave him alone!
speaker3: goddamn!
speaker4: chet, stop it!
speaker3: bastard!
speaker4: knox, are you all right?
speaker3: chris, get the away from him!
speaker4: chet, you hurt him!
speaker3: good!
speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm so sorry.
speaker4: it's okay. it-it's okay.
speaker3: next time i see you, you die.
speaker5: go ahead, pass it around.
speaker6: me and pitts are working on a hi-fi system. it shouldn't be that hard to, uh, to put together.
speaker7: yeah. uh, i might be going to yale. uh, uh, but, i, i might not.
speaker8: don't you guys miss having girls around here?
speaker9: yeah.
speaker10: that's part of what this club is about. in fact, i'd like to announce i published an article in the school paper, in the name of the dead poets.
speaker11: what?
speaker10: demanding girls be admitted to welton.
speaker7: you didn't.
speaker10: so we can all stop beating off.
speaker12: how did you do that?
speaker10: i'm one of the proofers. i slipped the article in.
speaker6: look, uh, it's, it's over now.
speaker10: why? nobody knows who we are.
speaker11: well, don't you think they're gonna figure out who wrote it? they're gonna come to you and ask to know what the dead poets society is. charlie, you had no right to do something like that.
speaker10: it's nuwanda, cameron.
speaker8: that's right. it's nuwanda.
speaker10: are we just playing around out here, or do we mean what we say? for all we do is come together and reach a bunch of poems to each other. what the are we doing?
speaker12: all right, but you still shouldn't have done it, charlie. this could mean trouble. you don't speak for the club.
speaker10: hey, would you not worry about your precious little neck? if they catch me, i'll tell them i made it up.

speaker1: sit. 
speaker1: in this week of welton's honor there appeared a profane and unauthorized article. rather than spend my valuable time ferreting out the guilty persons -- and let me assure you i will find them - - i'm asking any and all students who knows anything about this article to make themselves known here and now. whoever the guilty persons are, this is your only chance to avoid expulsion from this school.
speaker2: welton academy. hello. yes, he is. just a moment.
speaker2: mr. nolan, it's for you. it's he says we should have girls at welton.

speaker1: wipe that smirk off your face. if you think, mr. dalton, that you're the first to try to get thrown out of this school, think again. others have had similar notions and have failed just as surely as you will fail. assume the position. 
speaker1: count aloud, mr. dalton.
speaker2: one. two. three. four. five.
speaker1: what is this dead poets society? i want names.

speaker1: you kicked out? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: so what happened?
speaker2: i'm to turn everybody in, apologize to the school and all will be forgiven.
speaker1: so, what are you gonna do? charlie!
speaker2: it, neil. the name is nuwanda.

speaker1: excuse me. may we have a word, mr. keating? 
speaker2: certainly.
speaker1: this was my first classroom, john. did you know that? my first desk.
speaker2: didn't know you taught, mr. nolan.
speaker1: english. oh, long before your time. it was hard giving it up, i can tell you. i'm hearing rumors, john, about some unorthodox teaching methods in your classroom. i'm not saying they've anything to do with the dalton boy's outburst. but i don't think i have to warn you boys his age are very impressionable.
speaker2: well, your reprimand made quite an impression, i'm sure.
speaker1: what was going on in the courtyard the other day?
speaker2: courtyard?
speaker1: yeah. boys marching, clapping in unison.
speaker2: oh, that. that was an exercise to prove a point. dangers of conformity.
speaker1: well, john, the curriculum here is set. it's proven it works. if you question, what's to prevent them from doing the same?
speaker2: i always thought the idea of educating was to learn to think for yourself.
speaker1: at these boys' ages? not on your life! tradition, john. discipline. prepare them for college, and the rest will take care of itself.

speaker1: creak. he started walking around towards my left. creak. creak. "assume the position, mr. dalton." 
speaker2: it's all right, gentlemen.
speaker1: mr. keating.
speaker2: mr. dalton. that was a pretty lame stunt you pulled today.
speaker1: you're siding with mr. nolan? what about carpe diem and sucking all the marrow out of life and all that?
speaker2: sucking the marrow out of life doesn't mean choking on the bone. sure there's a time for daring and there's a time for caution, and a wise man understands which is called for.
speaker1: but i thought you'd like that.
speaker2: no. you being expelled from school is not daring to me. it's stupid, 'cause you'll miss some golden opportunities.
speaker1: yeah. like what?
speaker2: like, if nothing else, the opportunity to attend my classes. got it, ace?
speaker1: aye, aye, captain.
speaker2: keep your head about you. that goes for the lot of you.
speaker3: yes, captain.
speaker2: phone call from if it had been collect, it wouldn't been daring.
speaker1: all right. go on.

speaker1: we're trying to rehearse, okay? start. 
speaker2: a good persuasion, therefore hear me, hermia.
speaker1: wait, please. excitement. i don't hear any excitement about this play. and take her hand. bring her down the stage and stop. and "there, gentle hermia." okay? try again.
speaker3: what's for dinner?
speaker4: spaghetti and meatballs!
speaker5: save some for me. "but, room, fairy! here comes oberon."
speaker5: father.
speaker6: neil.
speaker5: wait a minute. before you say anything, please let me ex- mr. perry rises from the desk.
speaker6: don't you dare talk back to me! it's bad enough that you've wasted your time with this, this absurd acting business. but you deliberately deceived me! how, how, how did you expect to get away with this? answer me. who put you up to it? was it this new man? this, uh, mr. keating?
speaker5: no. nobody-- i thought i'd surprise you. i've gotten all a's in every class.
speaker6: did you think i wasn't going to find out? "oh, my niece is in a play with your son," says mrs. marks. "no, no, no," i say, "you must be mistaken. my son's not in a play." you made me a liar of me, neil! now, tomorrow you go to them and you tell them that you're quitting.
speaker5: no, i can't. i have the main part. the performance is tomorrow night.
speaker6: i don't care if the world comes to an end tomorrow night. you are through with that play. is that clear? is that clear?
speaker5: yes, sir.
speaker6: i made a great many sacrifices to get you here, neil, and you will not let me down.
speaker5: no, sir.

speaker1: it's open. 
speaker1: neil, what's up?
speaker2: can i speak to you a minute?
speaker1: certainly. sit down.
speaker2: i'm sorry. here.
speaker1: excuse me. get you some tea?
speaker2: tea. sure.
speaker1: like some milk or sugar in that?
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker2: gosh, they don't give you much room around here.
speaker1: no, it's part of the monastic oath. they don't want worldly things distracting me from my teaching.
speaker2: she's pretty.
speaker1: she's also in london. makes it a little difficult.
speaker2: how can you stand it?
speaker1: stand what?
speaker2: you can go anywhere. you can do anything. how can you stand being here?
speaker1: 'cause i love teaching. i don't wanna be anywhere else.
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: i just talked to my father. he's making me quit the play at henley hall. acting's everything to me. i-- but he doesn't know. he-- i can see his point. we're not a rich family like charlie's, and we-- but he's planning the rest of my life for me, and i-- h-he's never asked me what i want.
speaker1: have you ever told your father what you just told me? about your passion for acting. you ever show him that?
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i can't talk to him this way.
speaker1: then you're acting for him, too. you're playing the part of the dutiful son. i know this sounds impossible, but you have to talk to him. you have to show him who you are, what your heart is.
speaker2: i know what he'll say. he'll tell me that acting's a whim, and i should forget it. that how they're counting on me. he'll just tell me to put it out of my mind, "for my own good."
speaker1: you are not an indentured servant. if it's not a whim for you, you prove it to him by your conviction and your passion. you show him that and if he still doesn't believe you, well, by then you'll be out of school and you can do anything you want.
speaker2: no. what about the play? the show's tomorrow night.
speaker1: well, you have to talk to him before tomorrow night.
speaker2: isn't there an easier way?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'm trapped.
speaker1: no, you're not.

speaker1: chris! 
speaker1: chris noel. do you know where she is?
speaker2: um, i think she's in room 111.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: excuse me. chris.
speaker3: knox, what are you doing here?
speaker1: i came to apologize for the other night. i brought you these and a poem i wrote for you.
speaker3: knox, don't you know that, if chet finds you here he'll kill you?
speaker1: i can't care. i love you, chris.
speaker3: knox, you're crazy.
speaker1: look, i acted like a jerk and i know it. please, accept these. please.
speaker3: no. no-- i, i can't. forget it.
speaker3: knox, i don't believe this.
speaker1: all i'm asking you to do is listen.
speaker1: the heavens made a girl named chris with hair and skin of gold. to touch her would be paradise.

speaker1: get out of here. cameron, you fool. 
speaker1: hey, how'd it go? did you read it to her?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: what'd she say?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: nothing. what do you mean, nothing?
speaker2: nothing. but i did it.
speaker1: what did she say? i know she had to say something.
speaker3: come here, knox.
speaker2: seize the day!

speaker1: did you talk to your father? 
speaker2: uh, he didn't like it one bit, but at least he's letting me stay in the play. he won't be able to make, make it. he's in chicago. but, uh, i think he's gonna let me stay with acting.
speaker1: really? you told him what you told me?
speaker2: yeah. he wasn't happy. but he'll be gone at least four days. i don't think he'll make the show, but i think he'll let me stay with it. "keep up the school work." thanks. neil picks up his books and leaves.

speaker1: beautiful baby. 
speaker2: beautiful baby. henley hall, here i come.
speaker3: excuse me, just a moment. yes. you're so cute.
speaker3: come on, todd. i'm trying to fix this.
speaker4: come on, nuwanda. you're gonna miss neil's entrance.
speaker1: he said something about getting red before we left.
speaker3: getting red? what does that mean?
speaker1: i, uh-- well, you know charlie.
speaker3: so, charlie, what's this "getting red" bit?
speaker4: w-what is that?
speaker5: it's an indian warrior symbol for virility. makes me feel potent, like it can drive girls crazy.
speaker4: oh, come on, charlie. the girls are waiting.

speaker1: chris. 
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: gentlemen, let's go.
speaker1: go ahead, guys. i'll catch up.
speaker3: yeah, come on, guys.
speaker1: chris, you can't be in here. i-if they catch you, we're both gonna be in big trouble.
speaker4: oh, but it's fine-- knox shushes her and leads her out the door.

speaker1: it's fine for you to come barging into my school and make a complete fool out of me? 
speaker2: i didn't mean to make a fool out of you.
speaker1: well, you did. chet found out. and it took everything i could do to keep him from coming here and killing you. knox, you have got to stop this stuff.
speaker2: i can't, chris. i love you.
speaker1: knox, you say that over and over. you don't, you don't even know me.
speaker3: will you be joining us, mr. overstreet?
speaker2: go ahead, captain. i'll walk.
speaker1: knox, knox, it just so happens that i could care less about you?
speaker2: then you wouldn't be here warning me about chet.
speaker1: i have to go. i'm gonna be late for the play.
speaker2: are you going with him?
speaker1: chet? to a play? are you kidding?
speaker2: then come with me.
speaker1: knox, you are so infuriating.
speaker2: come on, chris. just give me one chance. if you don't like me after tonight, i'll stay away forever.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: i promise. dead poets honor. you come with me tonight. and then, if you don't want to see me again, i swear i'll bow out.

speaker1: you know what would happen if chet found out? 
speaker2: he won't know anything. we'll sit in the back and sneak away as soon as it's over.
speaker1: and i suppose you would promise that this would be the end of it.
speaker2: dead poets honor.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: my word.
speaker1: you are so infuriating.

speaker1: hey, there he is! hey, hey. 
speaker2: shh, boys.
speaker3: either i mistake your shape and making quite, or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite call'd robin goodfellow:
speaker4: thou speak'st aright;
speaker4: i am that merry wanderer of the night. i jest to oberon and make him smile when i a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
speaker4: neighing in likeness of a filly foal: and sometime lurk i in a gossip's bowl, in very likeness of a roasted crab, and when she drinks, against her lips i bob and on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale. the wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
speaker1: he's good. he's really good.
speaker4: sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me; then slip i from her bum, down topples she, and "tailor" cries, and falls into a cough; and then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh, and waxen in their mirth and neeze and swear a merrier hour was never wasted there. but, room, fairy! here comes oberon.
speaker3: and here my mistress. would that he were gone!
speaker5: then by your side no bed-room me deny; for lying so, hermia, i do not lie
speaker6: lysander riddles very prettily: now much beshrew my manners and my pride, if hermia meant to say lysander lied. but, gentle friend, for love and courtesy lie further off; in human modesty, such separation as may well be said becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid, and, good night, sweet friend: thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
speaker5: amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say i; the director breaks neil out of his thoughts.
speaker7: neil. that's your cue, neil. come on, neil. here's your crown. let's go.

speaker1: if we shadows have offended, 
speaker1: think but this, and all is mended, that you have but slumber'd here while these visions did appear. and this weak and idle theme, no more yielding but a dream, gentles, do not reprehend: if you pardon, we will mend: and, as i am an honest puck, if we have unearned luck now to 'scape the serpent's tongue, we will make amends ere long; else the puck a liar call; so, good night unto you all. give me your hands, if we be friends, and robin shall restore amends.
speaker2: yawp!
speaker3: yeah, neil!
speaker4: excuse me, i'm neil's father. i need to see him. backstage, the woman approaches neil.
speaker5: neil, your father. he's- neil nods in agreement.
speaker6: what did you think?
speaker5: really i thought you were all just wonderful!

speaker1: excuse me. excuse me. excuse me. 
speaker2: neil, neil, you were great.
speaker3: i can't, guys.
speaker4: neil! neil!
speaker5: neil. neil. you have the gift. what a performance you left even me speechless. you have to stay with-
speaker1: get in the car. keating, you stay away from my son.
speaker2: neil! neil! mr. perry, come on.
speaker5: don't make it any worse than it is.
speaker2: is it okay if we walk back? captain?
speaker2: knox.

speaker1: we're trying very hard to understand why it is that you insist on defying us. whatever the reason, we're not gonna let you ruin your life. tomorrow i'm withdrawing you from welton and enrolling you in braden military school. you're going to harvard and you're gonna be a doctor. 
speaker2: but that's ten more years. father, that's a lifetime!
speaker1: oh, stop it. don't be so dramatic. you make it sound like a prison term. you don't understand, neil. you have opportunities that i never even dreamt of and i am not going to let you waste them.
speaker2: i've got to tell you what i feel.
speaker3: we've been so worried about--
speaker1: what? what? tell me what you feel. what is it?
speaker1: is it more of this, this acting business? because you can forget that. what?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: nothing? well, then, let's go to bed.
speaker2: i was good. i was really good.
speaker3: go on, get some sleep.

speaker1: what was that? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that sound.
speaker2: what sound? tom?
speaker2: what is it? what's wrong?
speaker1: neil.
speaker2: tom, what is it? what's wrong? neil?
speaker1: neil?
speaker2: i'll look outside. neil?
speaker1: no!
speaker1: oh, neil! oh, my
speaker2: oh! no!
speaker1: oh, my son!
speaker2: he's all right.
speaker1: my son! my poor son!
speaker2: he's all right! he's all right! he's all right! he's all right! he's all right! he's all right!
speaker1: stop it! stop it! stop it.

speaker1: todd? todd. 
speaker2: oh, charlie.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: neil's dead.

speaker1: it's so beautiful. 
speaker2: todd. it's okay, todd.
speaker3: calm down.
speaker2: it's all right, todd.
speaker3: todd, it's okay. it's okay, todd.
speaker2: it's all right. it's alright.
speaker1: he wouldn't-- he wouldn't have done it.
speaker4: you can't explain it, todd.
speaker1: it was his father!
speaker2: no!
speaker1: he wouldn't have left us. it's because he- he wouldn't have. his dad was-- his, his father did it.
speaker2: todd.
speaker1: his father killed him. he made him do it.
speaker4: you can't explain it, todd.
speaker4: todd!
speaker2: leave him be.

speaker1: all my life thy light shall surely follow me and in house forevermore my dwelling place shall be amen. 
speaker2: the death of neil perry is a tragedy. he was a fine student. one of welton's best. and he will be missed. we've contacted each of your parents to explain the situation. naturally, they're all quite concerned. at the request of neil's family, i intend to conduct a thorough inquiry into this matter. your complete cooperation is expected.

speaker1: you told him about this meeting? 
speaker2: twice.
speaker1: that's it, guys. we're all fried.
speaker2: how do you mean?
speaker1: cameron's a fink. he's in nolan's office right now, finking.
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: the club, pittsie. think about it. the board of directors, the trustees and mr. nolan. do you think for one moment they're gonna let this thing just blow over? schools go down because of things like this. they need a scapegoat.
speaker3: what's going on, guys?
speaker1: you finked, didn't you, cameron?
speaker3: finked? i didn't know what the you're talking about.
speaker1: you told nolan everything about the club is what i'm talking about.
speaker3: look, in case you hadn't heard, dalton, there's something called an honor code at this school, all right? if a teacher asks you a question, you tell the truth or you're expelled.
speaker1: you little-
speaker4: charlie!
speaker1: he's a rat! he's in it up to his eyes, so he rattled to save himself.
speaker5: don't touch him, charlie. you do and you're out.
speaker1: i'm out anyway!
speaker5: you don't know that, not yet.
speaker3: he's right there, charlie. and if you guys are smart, you will do exactly what i did and cooperate. they're not after us. we're the victims. us and neil.
speaker1: what's that mean? who are they after?
speaker3: why, mr. keating, of course. the "captain" himself. i mean, you guys didn't really think he could avoid responsibility, did you?
speaker1: mr. keating responsible for neil? is that what they're saying?
speaker3: well, who else do you think, ass? the administration? mr. perry? mr. keating put us up to all this crap, didn't he? if he wasn't for mr. keating, neil would be cozied up in his room right now, studying his chemistry and dreaming of being called doctor.
speaker6: that is not true, cameron. you know that. he didn't put us to anything. neil loved acting.
speaker3: believe what you want, but i say let keating fry. i mean, why ruin our lives?
speaker3: you just signed your expulsion papers, nuwanda.
speaker3: and if the rest of you are smart, you'll do exactly what i did. they know everything anyway. you can't save keating, but you can save yourselves.

speaker1: knox overstreet. 
speaker2: meeks?
speaker3: go away. i have to study.
speaker2: what happened to nuwanda?
speaker3: expelled.
speaker2: what'd you tell 'em?
speaker3: nothing they didn't already know.
speaker1: todd anderson.

speaker1: hello, son. 
speaker2: hello, darling.
speaker3: mom.
speaker4: have a seat, mr. anderson.
speaker4: mr. anderson, i think we've pretty well put together what's happened here. you do admit to being a part of this dead poets society? todd says nothing.
speaker1: answer him, todd.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker4: i have here a detailed description of what occurred at your meetings. it describes how your teacher, mr. keating, encouraged you boys to organize this club and to use it as a source of inspiration for reckless and self- indulgent behavior. it describes how mr. keating, both in and out of the classroom, encouraged neil perry to follow his obsession with acting when he knew all along it was against the explicit order of neil's parents. it was mr. keating's blatant abuse of his position as teacher that led directly to neil perry's death.
speaker4: read that document carefully, todd. very carefully.
speaker4: if you've nothing to add or amend, sign it.
speaker3: what's gonna happen to mr. keating?
speaker1: i've had enough. sign the paper, todd.

speaker1: sit. 
speaker1: i'll be teaching this class through exams. we'll find a permanent english teacher during the break. who will tell me where you are in the pritchard textbook?
speaker1: mr. anderson?
speaker2: uh, in the, in the pr-
speaker1: i can't hear you, mr. anderson.
speaker2: in the, in the, in the pritchard?
speaker1: kindly inform me, mr. cameron.
speaker3: we skipped around a lot, sir. we covered the romantics and some of the chapters on post civil war literature.
speaker1: what about the realists?
speaker3: i believe we skipped most of that, sir.
speaker1: all right, then, we'll start over. what is poetry? there is a knock at the classroom door.
speaker1: come.
speaker4: excuse me. i came for my personals. should i come back after class?
speaker1: get them now, mr. keating.
speaker1: gentlemen, turn to page 21 of the introduction. mr. cameron, read aloud the excellent essay by dr. pritchard on "understanding poetry."
speaker3: that page has been ripped out, sir.
speaker1: well, borrow somebody else's book.
speaker3: they're all ripped out, sir.
speaker1: what do you mean, they're all ripped out?
speaker3: sir, we, uh-
speaker1: never mind.
speaker1: read!
speaker3: "... how important is that objective? question 1 rates the poem's perfection; question 2 rates its importance. and once these questions have been answered, determining the poem's greatness becomes a relatively simple matter. if the poem's score for perfection is plotted on the horizontal of a graph--"
speaker2: mr. keating! they made everybody sign it.
speaker1: quiet, mr. anderson.
speaker2: you gotta believe me. it's true.
speaker4: i do believe you, todd.
speaker1: leave, mr. keating.
speaker2: but it wasn't his fault!
speaker1: sit down, mr. anderson!
speaker1: one more outburst from you or anyone else, and you're out of this school! leave, mr. keating.
speaker1: i said leave, mr. keating.
speaker2: o captain! my captain!
speaker1: sit down, mr. anderson!
speaker1: do you hear me? sit down! sit down! this is your final warning, anderson. how dare you? do you hear me?
speaker5: o captain! my captain!
speaker1: mr. overstreet, i warn you! sit down!
speaker1: sit down! sit down. all of you. i want you seated. sit down. leave, mr. keating.
speaker1: all of you, down. i want you seated. do you hear me?
speaker1: sit down!

