speaker1: good morning, azul. do you know who this is? 
speaker2: moco... what the do you want after all these years?
speaker1: we've got a lot to talk about. i'm just a few town away with a whole new gang. i heard you were nearby so i thought i'd give you a call, amigo.
speaker2: that's sweet of you, i don't suppose you could get me out of there, and then maybe hand me over my share of money.
speaker1: yes, i figured you'd want your money, my friend. that is why i have called you. i heard you were getting out soon, and figured i should deal with our situation. but do you really need me to help you get out? from what i hear, you're running quite a business out of your cell with a phone and some loyal men. it keeps you well protected i hear. not a bad idea. i may try that myself sometime.
speaker2: i could stay in here and earn peanuts compared to what you owe me if i were to get out. so, yes, i want you to help me... my friend.

speaker1: soon my friend, soon. i'm sending you some people in a few days to get you. 
speaker2: really? well, that's more like it. just like the moco i used to know.
speaker1: just hang in there my friend. i won't forget that you have been a big part of our success. what's wrong.

speaker1: what do you want to drink? 
speaker2: refresco.
speaker2: no hay musica?
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i'm a mariachi. a good one. i play beautiful ballads, old classic ballads, on an old-fashioned guitar.
speaker1: so what?

speaker1: i could add a little class to this place. i work for fairly cheap, i live mostly off tips. but i need steady work, and i can guarantee bringing in more customers. 
speaker2: there you see? either i can pay one guy to sound like a full mariachi band...
speaker2: ... or i could spend the same money only get one little guitar player... understand?
speaker1: thank you, sir.

speaker1: what the is this, mariachi day? there is no work for you here! 
speaker2: bartender... one beer.

speaker1: in a bottle, wey. 
speaker2: ready.
speaker1: i'm looking for an old friend of mine. his name is... moco. do you know where i can find him.

speaker1: so you know him? 
speaker2: we work for him.
speaker1: that's too bad.
speaker1: hold it please.

speaker1: da me telefono. 
speaker2: take it.
speaker1: pit bull?
speaker2: yeah, pit bull.
speaker1: dead?

speaker1: gracias seã±or... 
speaker2: callate, hombre!!!
speaker3: mariachi looks up at the clerk, then stands.

speaker1: viejo, if you see anyone new in town, carrying a guitar case, dressed in black... you can call this number, ok? 
speaker2: and if i don't call, you'll kill me...

speaker1: yeah, pit bull. 
speaker2: i need a cheap room for a week, and i'd prefer to pay you in a few days, after i've found some work.
speaker1: sã­, later...
speaker2: thank you...
speaker2: thank you, friend.
speaker2: you can trust me.
speaker1: i am very sorry, seã±or. but... how much can you spare?
speaker2: i've only got a few pesos... i plan on finding work in town.

speaker1: cuidado, viejo! 
speaker2: pendejos!!!

speaker1: what happened to you, mariachi? too much refresco? 
speaker2: i just killed four guys.
speaker1: is it true?

speaker1: wait a minute... what's your name? 
speaker2: domino.
speaker1: wait a minute, domino! it was self- defense.
speaker1: i'm new in town. i don't know everyone!!!
speaker2: thieves?
speaker1: no way. they were well-dressed men. i checked into the cheapest hotel in town, no money, nothing of value, except this guitar and maybe this coat, which they could have taken when i left my room, but they didn't. they were only interested in killing me.
speaker2: so why do you come here? you want to get me killed?
speaker1: i need a place to stay until i figure this out. they've got me mixed up with someone else.
speaker2: and you've never seen them before? not even in another town?

speaker1: are you saying they followed me, a mariachi, here? what for? 
speaker2: maybe they hate your music.
speaker2: maybe you were singing in another town, they hated your voice, and now they're trying to kill you.
speaker1: are you serious?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: are you going to help me, or am i gonna have to die on your porch?
speaker2: i have a room upstairs. my room. don't touch anything. i'll be up after awhile and we can call a friend of mine.
speaker1: thank you. i'll never forget this.
speaker2: this way.

speaker1: good morning, domino. 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: give me the phone. i have to call moco.
speaker1: it's not as bad as it looks. domino, has anyone come through here? a stranger, maybe?
speaker2: this is a border town. i get strangers all the time.
speaker1: dressed all in black, carrying a guitar case?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, he shot me... and has killed ten of moco's men... all in one day.
speaker2: aren't you gonna call your boss?

speaker1: moco, he got away. shot me in the arm. killed la palma. pepino, sunday. this guy is one slick maricon. yeah. also, i didn't get a look at him. so, unless he's still carrying that guitar around and hasn't changed clothes, i won't even spot him, and i don't think he'll be that obvious... 
speaker2: don't worry. if there's one thing i know, it's that he'll always wear black and he'll always carry that guitar with him. it's his signature. besides, that's not a guitar he's carrying. it's a guitar case full of weapons. find him.
speaker3: que paso

speaker1: i screwed up. the guy left his guitar case in the hotel room. we chased him out, but he came back for the case. 
speaker2: maybe he loves his guitar. it's probably an antique.
speaker1: it wasn't a guitar. it was a guitar case full of weapons that he uses on his victims. adios, i'm gonna take a nap. and thanks for the drink. mean dude 5 stumbles as he tries to stand.

speaker1: i thought i told you not to touch anything. 
speaker2: sorry. i needed to relax. i can...
speaker1: no, it's alright, finish up. do you want shampoo?
speaker2: yes, please.
speaker1: who are you?!
speaker2: i'm a musician!

speaker1: what do you have in here? guns? knives? 
speaker2: no! my guitar!
speaker1: we'll see...
speaker1: you're very modest, mariachi...
speaker1: you told me you killed four men, when you really killed seven. or were they still breathing even after you shot out their hearts?
speaker2: i'm a mariachi...

speaker1: i told you... i am a musician. 
speaker2: play it.
speaker1: w...w...what?
speaker2: play it, damnit, play something sweet!!!

speaker1: you're a mariachi, all right. and a good one. mariachi bows a solemn thank you. 
speaker2: i think this is the best i've ever played. you... inspired me. closeup of the knife.
speaker2: hire me.
speaker2: i'm good. hire me to play in your bar. i'll work mostly from tips. but, i need steady work.
speaker1: i couldn't pay you. i have no money.
speaker2: this fancy place and you have no money?
speaker1: it's the truth.
speaker2: i'll work for room and board, then.
speaker1: will i have to keep a knife at your to get you to play like that?
speaker2: not if you're paying me room and board.
speaker1: you won't find a permanent job in this town... but ok.

speaker1: amigo! i'm glad i've reached you! you've not answered all day. killing ten of my men must have been very time consuming! 
speaker2: six.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i've only killed six! you were always bad at math, moco. i guess that's why you never paid me half of the money. you thought it all belonged to you.
speaker1: i knew half was yours... i got greedy, my friend. it's my nature. but you!!! you are modest! you've killed ten of my men!! i know, because i'm having them buried in my yard right now. with my dogs and cats.
speaker2: i killed six. but don't bother counting so soon. the number will triple by tomorrow.
speaker1: i'm sorry things turned out this way. my friend. i got greedy. i should never have tried to kill you. it would have been cheaper for me to pay you. now i've got to find ten new men.

speaker1: six. 
speaker2: ten.
speaker1: i tell you what. you give me my money, and i won't kill any more of your men...
speaker2: no, it's too late for that. we're going to have to see this through.
speaker1: just like the moco i used to know. still wearing white?
speaker2: what do you think?

speaker1: i need to get my money back from that hotel. i'll be right back. 
speaker2: are you crazy? if you go anywhere with that jacket and that case you could be killed. leave that stuff here.

speaker1: hi. it's domino. 
speaker2: i know who it is...

speaker1: can i get something to drink or eat? 
speaker2: one beer.
speaker2: in a bottle, wey.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: isn't there a girl that works here?
speaker1: yeah, she owns the place.

speaker1: i just saw a guy with a guitar case like mine. it's him they want. 
speaker2: did he say anything?
speaker3: no, he just ordered a drink.
speaker1: i don't look anything like him...

speaker1: is this the guy? 
speaker2: i'm not sure...

speaker1: what's in the case? 
speaker2: my guitar.
speaker1: yeah? you're one of those old-time mariachis, huh?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: ok, let's take a look.
speaker1: if it's a guitar like you say it is, we'll never bother you again...
speaker1: if it's not...
speaker1: ... then we'll spray paint this street with your brains.
speaker1: sorry....

speaker1: look, as long as you don't carry the case around, they'll leave you alone. it's that guy they're after. 
speaker2: i better put this upstairs...

speaker1: i'm sorry we left... 
speaker2: ... we didn't know what to do...
speaker1: ... we figured you could defend yourself!!!

speaker1: ... using this? 
speaker1: my case got switched with some maricon mariachi!

speaker1: where is this mariachi? 
speaker2: he's dead by now... so, i want you to go look for my case. the two rats are about to leave.
speaker2: leave me a weapon.
speaker2: that was disloyal of you to leave me out there. you should be as loyal to me as you are to each other.
speaker2: are you loyal?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: are you loyal?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: then shoot him.
speaker2: you are loyal, are you not? shoot him. or i shoot you.
speaker1: i can't.

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: you said we should be as loyal to you as we are to each other. i couldn't shoot him, for that would be as disloyal as shooting you.
speaker1: very good. now go find my case.

speaker1: where were you when he came into the bar? 
speaker2: i was on the phone, talking to a friend that knows what's going on.
speaker1: did you mention me?
speaker2: no... he told me the man in black is azul.
speaker1: if his name is azul, why doesn't he wear blue?
speaker2: i don't know... anyway, he's killing the men of the town drug dealer. the dealer's name is mauricio. but he's known as moco.
speaker1: and moco is sending these men to find azul. so, why do they chase me?

speaker1: they have never seen azul... only moco knows him. my friend says the description moco gave his men was that he wears black, and carries a guitar case. sounds like you, no? 
speaker2: couldn't you tell your friend that there are two people like that in his town? one is a killer, and one is a mariachi.
speaker1: only special people can talk to moco. besides, you've killed a few of his men, now. your best option is to keep out of sight, stop wearing black, and to hide that stupid case until this is all over.
speaker3: he got away... but i got a good look at him.
speaker3: coca, caca, beto were killed.
speaker3: he won't get away again, moco. i promise.

speaker1: mondays are my day off. want to play a game? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: come see me.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker3: please.
speaker1: i don't feel well. i've got to go.
speaker3: have you ridden the bike?
speaker1: no... i've got to go...
speaker2: boyfriend.
speaker1: no...

speaker1: i can't figure out something. you tell me you're poor. poor family. yet you've got this place. 
speaker2: this place is a gift.
speaker1: from who?
speaker2: from mauricio.
speaker1: from mauricio? the man trying to kill me?
speaker2: he's not trying to kill you, his man had you confused with azul.
speaker1: same thing.
speaker2: look, you now how if you want to impress a girl, you send her flowers, candy, jewelry until you win her love?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: if one present doesn't work, you keep sending bigger and better things until you win her or you're broke?
speaker1: correct...
speaker2: well, mauricio sent me flowers, then jewelry, then he gave me a job at his saloon, then he gave me the whole saloon... etc.
speaker1: he's still giving you things?
speaker2: he'll never run out of money.

speaker1: and you accept it all? what's the last thing he sent you? 
speaker2: a motorcycle.
speaker2: he wants me to ride out to his ranch when i've decided to be his. he thinks he's close to having me.
speaker1: is he?
speaker2: he was.
speaker2: not anymore.
speaker1: so, you really are from a poor family.

speaker1: i remember when i was growing up, we were so poor, that my brothers and sisters and i all slept on the same blanket stretched out across the floor. we had to sleep in a circle, with our fingers in each other's ears, to keep the bugs from crawling into them. 
speaker2: ay, wey...

speaker1: here's a little bit i've saved. i want you to go get a new guitar. 
speaker1: take it, stupid. i'm not saying go by the best one, just a temporary one so you can play again tonight. mariachi stops and thinks... he looks up at her

speaker1: that's him... 
speaker1: loco, he's headed your way... black pants, white shirt.

speaker1: where did he go, loco? 
speaker2: he got in my truck.

speaker1: where's my case? 
speaker2: we couldn't find it.
speaker3: we heard they caught you and were taking you to moco's ranch.
speaker2: ... so we came to see if it was true.
speaker1: they caught the mariachi.

speaker1: what can i get you? 
speaker2: one beer.
speaker1: anything else?
speaker2: my guitar case.
speaker1: where's mariachi?
speaker2: where's my case?
speaker1: upstairs.

speaker1: get it. 
speaker1: if you want your mariachi back, come with me.
speaker2: why will you help me?
speaker1: because you know where moco's ranch is... i don't. domino calls her assistant.
speaker1: you help me, i'll help you.
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: mauricio!! 
speaker2: play along...

speaker1: i'm sorry he used you to get to me, domino. 
speaker1: azul, let her go and you'll get your money.
speaker2: moco, give me my money or i ruin your clothes with her blood.
speaker3: what have you done with mariachi?
speaker1: who?
speaker3: the musician your men confused with azul.
speaker1: so that's why you were busy that night...
speaker1: ... you had that little monkey climbing all over you.
speaker2: give me my money or i kill her now!!!
speaker1: after all i've done for you, this is how you treat me?
speaker3: i never asked you for anything until now. let mariachi go.

speaker1: azul is anxious now. 
speaker2: i swear i'll kill her!
speaker3: no you won't. i will.
speaker2: all i wanted was my rightful share. but you've got to kill everybody.
speaker3: you feel sorry for her, don't you? see, that's why you can't ever be as big as me.
speaker4: stop here.
speaker4: domino!!! we're leaving!!! right now!!!

speaker1: she's gone. 
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: looking for you.
speaker1: she gave the case back to that guy. she left with him to find you.
speaker3: mariachi barrels down the road on the motorcycle.
speaker4: bring that musician out here so he can be reunited with my domino. some men go to check. cut back and forth with mariachi coming.
speaker5: he's gone, sir.
speaker4: find him!!

speaker1: you are very talented. 
speaker1: i bet you play the guitarra real well, huh?
speaker1: not anymore.
speaker1: now get the off my property and take your hand with you!!!

