speaker1: so you want me to tell you the story of my life... 
speaker2: that's what i do. i interview people. i collect lives. f.m. radio. f.f.r.c. i just interviewed a genuine hero, a cop who -
speaker1: you'd have to have a lot of tape for my story. i've had a very unusual life.
speaker2: so much the better. i've got a pocket full of tapes.
speaker1: you followed me here, didn't you?
speaker2: saw you in the street outside. you seemed interesting. is this where you live?
speaker1: it's just a room...
speaker2: so shall we begin? what do you do?
speaker1: i'm a vampire.
speaker2: see? i knew you were interesting.
speaker1: absolutely. i was watching you watching me. i was waiting for you in that alleyway. and then you began to speak.
speaker2: well, what a lucky break for me.
speaker1: perhaps lucky for both of us.
speaker1: i'll tell you my story. all of it. i'd like to do that very much.
speaker2: you were going to kill me? drink my blood?
speaker1: yes but you needn't worry about that now. things change.
speaker2: you believe this, don't you? that you're a vampire? you really think...
speaker1: we can't begin this way. let me turn on the light.
speaker2: but i thought vampires didn't like the light.
speaker1: we love it. i only wanted to prepare you.

speaker1: good he struggles to suppress fear and understand. 
speaker2: don't be frightened. i want this opportunity.
speaker1: how did you do that?
speaker2: the same way you do it. a series of simple gestures. only i moved too fast for you to see. i'm flesh and blood, you see. but not human. i haven't been human for two hundred years.
speaker2: what can i do to put you at ease? shall we begin like david copperfield? i am born, i grow up. or shall we begin when i was born to darkness, as i call it. that's really where we should start, don't you think?
speaker1: you're not lying to me, are you?
speaker2: why should i lie? 1791 was the year it happened. i was twenty-four - younger than you are now.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: but times were different then. i was a man at that age. the master of a large plantation just south of new orleans...

speaker1: louis rips away the vines already covering the 
speaker2: i was twenty-four and life seemed finished. i couldn't bear the pain of their loss. i longed for a release from it.

speaker1: i wanted to lose everything. my wealth, my estate, my sanity. but lady luck didn't oblige. 
speaker1: you're calling me a cheat?
speaker2: i'm calling you a piece of -
speaker1: then do me a favor. get rid of this piece of
speaker1: you lack the courage of your convictions, sir. do it.
speaker1: most of all i longed for death. i know that now. i invited it, a release from the pain of living...

speaker1: they would have killed you - 
speaker2: then my luck would have changed.
speaker1: you want death? is it death you want?
speaker2: yes...

speaker1: you still want death? or have you tasted it enough? 
speaker2: enough...

speaker1: that's how it happened? 
speaker2: no. the gift of darkness requires more than that, as you'll see.

speaker1: who the are you? what are you doing in my house? 
speaker2: and a beautiful house it is too. yours is a good life, isn't it?
speaker2: you're not afraid of anything, are you?
speaker1: why should i be?
speaker2: are you going to put that through me too? ruin my beautiful clothes?
speaker2: were all last night's promises for nothing?
speaker1: what do you want from me?
speaker2: i've come to answer your prayers. you want to die, don't you? life has no meaning anymore, does it?
speaker2: the wine has no taste. the food sickens you. there seems no reason for any of it, does there? but what if i could give it back to you? pluck out the pain and give you another life? and it would be for all time? and sickness and death could never touch you again?

speaker1: vampires, that's what we are. creatures of darkness, only we see it that darkness more clearly than any mortal has ever seen... 
speaker1: wouldn't it be sweet to bid pain goodbye? to wave away anguish and grief? to embrace the peace of the unending night?
speaker2: papa...
speaker3: diane!!!!
speaker1: they are gone, louis. death took them. death which you can now destroy...

speaker1: you have to ask me for this. you have to want it, do you hear me? 
speaker2: give it to me!!!
speaker1: vampires. we thrive on blood.
speaker2: i want it!
speaker1: tomorrow night. you must prove yourself. i will give you the choice i never had.
speaker1: the sun's coming up. watch it carefully. if you come with me tomorrow, you'll never see it again.
speaker2: my last sunrise. that morning i was not yet a vampire, and i saw my last sunrise. i remember it completely, yet i don't remember any sunrise before it. i watched the whole magnificence of the dawn for the last time, as if it were the first. and the i said goodbye to sunlight and went out to become what i became.

speaker1: your grief has unhinged you. you've let your estate rot. 
speaker1: you let your overseer run riot, work your slaves to the bone. we'll start with him.
speaker2: how do you mean, start?
speaker1: call him.
speaker2: carlos!!!
speaker1: why the whip, carlos?
speaker1: let's call that a start.
speaker2: i can't do it.
speaker1: you've just done it -
speaker2: kill me if you will, but i can't do this...

speaker1: don't worry. he was white trash, they come at two a penny. i dumped him in the swamp and untied the slave, licked his wounds clean. 
speaker2: you're the devil, aren't you?
speaker1: i wish i were. but if i were, what would i want with you?
speaker2: i can't go through with it, i tell you.
speaker1: your perfect. your bitter and you're strong.
speaker2: but why do you want me?
speaker1: because you're as strong as i was when i was alive.

speaker1: you really want to be with them? 
speaker2: yes. kill me. kill me like you promised -
speaker1: you asked for death. i didn't promise it -
speaker1: it's not your wife and child my friend. it's death. just that simple. think and choose. it happens to everyone. except us.
speaker1: we shall be this way always, my friend. young as we are now. i'm lonely for a companion, lonely for your strength. but i'm not that lonely. do you want to come or not?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: did i hear a yes?
speaker2: yes...

speaker1: i've drained you to the point of death. if you drink from me you live for ever. if i leave you here you die. 
speaker2: no. don't leave me here. give it to me.
speaker1: you're sure?
speaker2: sure...

speaker1: stop staring at my buttons. didn't i tell you it was going to be fun? 
speaker1: you're body's dying. pay no attention. it will take twenty minutes at most.
speaker2: dying?
speaker1: it happens to us all.
speaker1: come, you're going to feed now.
speaker2: i want a woman.
speaker1: that doesn't matter anymore, louis.

speaker1: they're all beautiful now. men, women, the old, the young...simply because they are alive. - 
speaker1: take him.
speaker2: the crucifix -
speaker1: forget the crucifix. take him.
speaker1: resist no more louis. feed...
speaker2: what have i done?
speaker1: you have fed. you were made for this...
speaker2: dear what have i done?
speaker1: you've killed louis. and enjoyed it.

speaker1: you said the slave had a crucifix... 
speaker2: oh, that rumor about crosses?
speaker1: you can't look at them...
speaker2: nonsense, my friend. i can look on anything i like. and i am particularly fond of looking on crucifixes.
speaker1: the story about stakes through the heart?
speaker2: the same. as you would say today...
speaker1: what about coffins?
speaker2: coffins... coffins unfortunately are a necessity...

speaker1: yes, that's you, my handsome friend. and you'll look that way till the stars fall from heaven. 
speaker2: it can't be...
speaker1: give it time. you're like a man who loses a limb and still imagines he feels pain. it will pass. and we must sleep now. i can feel the sun approaching.

speaker1: you must get into it. it's the only safe place for you when the light comes. 
speaker2: and if i don't?
speaker1: the sun will destroy the blood i've given you. every tissue, every vein. the fire in this lantern could do that too.
speaker1: don't be afraid. in moments you'll be sleeping as soundly as you ever slept. and when you awake i'll be waiting for you, and so will all the world.
speaker2: you told me something earlier. you said you didn't have a choice. was that true?
speaker1: someday i'll tell you. we have a lot of time to talk to each other. you might say... we have all the time we shall ever need. he closes the lid.
speaker2: dear what have i done?

speaker1: i awoke the next evening to a different world. and i realized there are as profound differences between vampires as between human beings... 
speaker2: your wealth, dear louis, is inestimable. your income from cotton alone will keep us in comfort for a century.
speaker1: i sat there staring at him with contempt. he had the soul of a shopkeeper, he was the sow's ear out of which nothing fine could be made. i felt sadly cheated in having him as a teacher...
speaker2: you'll get used to killing. just forget about that mortal coil. you'll become accustomed to things all too quickly.
speaker1: do you think so?
speaker3: you are not hungry, sir...
speaker2: au contraire, my dear. he could eat a horse...
speaker1: i looked at anything mortal and saw all life as precious, condemning all fruitless guilt and passion that would let it slip through the fingers like sand...
speaker1: it was only as a vampire that i could see yvette's beauty. her fear of me increased my desire.
speaker1: i will finish it, yvette. now leave us.
speaker2: can't you pretend, you fool? don't give the game away. we're lucky to have such a home.
speaker2: pretend to drink, at least.
speaker2: such fine crystal shouldn't go to waste...
speaker2: i know. it gets cold so fast.
speaker1: we can live like this? off the blood of animals?
speaker2: i wouldn't call it living. i'd call it surviving. a useful trick if you're caught for a month on a ship at sea.
speaker2: there's nothing in the world now that doesn't hold some...
speaker1: fascination...
speaker2: yes. and i'm bored with this prattle - he throws the rat away.
speaker1: but we can live without taking human life. it's possible.
speaker2: anything is possible. but just try it for a week. come into new orleans and let me show you some real sport!

speaker1: this was new orleans, a magical and magnificent place to live. in which a vampire, richly dressed might attract no more notice in the evening than hundreds of other exotic creatures. 
speaker2: come on, mon cher. the best in the colony. once you touch this you'll never go to any other tavern again.
speaker3: you think so, cherie? but what if i'd rather taste your lips?
speaker2: my lips are even sweeter still...
speaker4: laughter rocks the tavern.
speaker3: let's get out of here!

speaker1: have you ever been caught? 
speaker2: of course not. it's so easy you almost feel sorry for them.
speaker1: lestat killed two, sometimes three a night. a fresh young girl, that was his favorite for the first of the evening.

speaker1: but the triumphant kill of lestat was a young man. they represented the greatest loss to lestat because they stood on the threshold of the maximum possibility of life. 
speaker2: the trick is not to think about it. see that one? the widow st. clair? she had that gorgeous young fop murder her husband. she's perfect for you. go ahead.
speaker1: but how do you know?
speaker2: read her thoughts.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: the dark gift is different for each of us. but one thing is true of everyone. we grow stronger as we go along.
speaker2: take my word for it. she blamed a slave for his murder. and do you know what they did to him?
speaker2: the evildoers are easier. and they taste better...

speaker1: now, young man, you really amaze me! i'm old enough to be your grandmother. 
speaker1: yes, that's the melody, i remember it. oh yes...

speaker1: my little papillions! my butterflies!!! he killed them!!! 
speaker2: you whining coward of a vampire who prowls the night killing rats and poodles. you could have finished us both!

speaker1: what have you done to me? you've condemned me to hell. 
speaker2: i don't know any -
speaker1: you want to see me kill? watch me kill you then -
speaker2: what strength, my friend, what strength. i remember why i chose you now.
speaker2: but you can't kill me, louis. nor i you.
speaker2: feed on what you want, mon cherie. rats, chickens, doves, goats. i'll leave you to it and watch you come round. just remember, life without me would be even more unbearable...

speaker1: consider yourself lucky. in paris a vampire has to be clever for many reasons. here all one needs is a pair of fangs. 
speaker2: paris? you came from paris?
speaker1: as did the one who made me.
speaker2: tell me about him. you must have learnt something from him! it had to happen for you as it did for me!
speaker1: i learnt absolutely nothing. i wasn't give a choice, remember?
speaker2: but you must know something about the meaning of it all, you must know where we come from, why we...
speaker1: why? why should i know these things? do you know them?
speaker1: that noise! it's driving me mad! we've been in the country for weeks, with nothing but that noise!!!
speaker2: they know about us. they see us dine on empty plates and drink from empty glasses.
speaker1: come the new orleans then. there's an opera on tonight. a real french opera! we can dine in splendor!
speaker2: i respect life, don't you see? for each and every human life i have respect.
speaker1: respect me a little then. i'm the only life you know.
speaker1: you'll soon run out of chickens, louis...

speaker1: michi louis? you don't want any supper? 
speaker2: no, ma cher. i need no supper. is all well at pointe du lac tonight?
speaker1: we worry about you master. when do you ride about the fields? how long since you've been to the slave quarters? everywhere there is death. animals, men. are you our master still at all? louis watches her sadly. he's getting hungry. her
speaker2: leave me alone now, yvette.
speaker1: i will not go unless you listen to me. send away this new friend of yours. the slaves are frightened of him. they are frightened of you.
speaker2: i am frightened of myself, yvette.
speaker2: hush, yvette -

speaker1: this place is cursed. damned, do you hear me? and your master is the devil. 
speaker1: get out while you can. you're free men.
speaker1: unlike me, you are no free men...
speaker1: do i have to convince you?
speaker2: setting fire to the house.

speaker1: you fool, what have you done? 
speaker2: what you wouldn't do. it's almost sunrise. it will be the sun or the fire. you said they can kill me. the sun or the fire!

speaker1: where are we? 
speaker2: where do you think, my friend? we're in a nice filthy cemetery. does this make you happy? is this fitting and proper enough?
speaker1: we belong in hell.
speaker2: and what if there is no hell, or they don't want us there? ever think of that?

speaker1: you loved yvette... 
speaker2: can a vampire feel love?
speaker1: you loved your wife, surely.
speaker2: i was human then. might as well ask can an angel feel love. both are blesses or cursed with a certain... detachment. though whether angels take as long to learn it as i, i will never know.
speaker2: yes, i loved yvette. as i loved pointe du lac. and as with each thing i loved, i destroyed it.
speaker2: lestat i did not love. and he survived.

speaker1: you're skin's icy. 
speaker2: not always...
speaker2: your friend has no head for wine.
speaker3: she's stupid. i can warm that cold skin of yours better than she can.
speaker2: do you think so?
speaker3: why you're warm now.
speaker2: ah, but the price is pretty high. your sweet friend - i exhausted her.
speaker4: i'm leaving you. i can't stand this any longer.
speaker2: what, no flowery speeches? about what a monster i am? what a vulgar fiend?
speaker4: i'm not interested in you. you disgust me. i'm interested in my own nature and know i can't trust you to tell me the truth about me.
speaker2: what do you imagine you are louis?
speaker4: i don't pretend to know.
speaker2: don't you understand, louis, that you alone of all creatures can see death with impunity... you alone under the rising moon can strike like the hand of
speaker4: lestat, she's alive!!!
speaker2: vampires are killers. predators, who's all seeing eyes were meant to give them detachment.
speaker4: the girl, lestat -
speaker2: i know. let her alone.
speaker2: you think you can be human. you think you can go back. but you can't. you live off the blood of rats now louis. how human is that?
speaker2: lie still, love...
speaker2: you're tired love, you want to sleep.
speaker4: why do you do this lestat?
speaker2: i like to do it. i enjoy it. take you aesthete's taste to purer things. kill them swiftly if you will, but do it! for now doubt, you are a killer louis. ah!
speaker5: it's a coffin, a coffin! get me out!
speaker2: of course it's a coffin. you're dead, love.
speaker4: lestat - finish this -
speaker2: you finish her - if you feel so much - the girl grabs louis and pleads.
speaker5: you won't let me die, will you?
speaker2: but it's too late, love. look at your wrist, you breast.
speaker2: unless i make her one of us...

speaker1: my to think you... are all i have to learn from... 
speaker2: in the old world, they called it the dark gift, louis. and i gave it to you.

speaker1: am i damned? am i from the devil? is my very nature that of a devil? and all the while, as these dreaded questions caused me to neglect my thirst, my thirst grew hotter, my veins were threads of pain in my flesh, my temples throbbed. 
speaker2: don't go that way monsieur. it's the plague. go back the way you came.
speaker1: the way i came...
speaker1: ... and finally, when i could stand it no longer, i stood in an empty desolate street and heard the sound of a child crying.

speaker1: mama, please wake up. mama, i'm frightened, please wake up. 
speaker1: monsieur, please help us. papa's waiting for us at the ship. please wake mama, monsieur.
speaker2: and if i am damned, why do i fell such pity for her gaunt face? why do i wish to warm her tiny arms? comfort her beating heart?

speaker1: ah, my philosopher, my martyr. "never take a human life". well you must admit it is funny. or is it merely touching? i'm not sure. 
speaker1: let's make some party of it, shall we? maybe there's some life in the old lady yet?
speaker1: come back, louis, you are what you are. the plague would have got her within hours anyway. merciful death how you love your precious guilt.

speaker1: all i need to find you louis is follow the corpses of rats. 
speaker1: pain is terrible for you. you feel it like no other creature because you are a vampire. you don't want it to go on.
speaker2: no... they emerge from the sewer and walk along the waterfront.
speaker1: do what it is in your nature to do. and you will feel as you felt with that child in your arms.
speaker2: oh lestat. i felt peace. i felt an end to the craving.
speaker1: that and more.
speaker1: evil is a point of view. kills, indiscriminately, and so shall we. for no creatures under are as we are, none so like him as ourselves.
speaker2: is merciless? greedy and cruel?
speaker1: ah, but we have even more in common with our creator. come, i am like a mother tonight. i want a child.
speaker1: she's here, your wounded one.
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: you need company, louis. more congenial than mine...
speaker2: lestat!
speaker1: you remember how you wanted her, the taste of her -
speaker2: i didn't want to kill her.
speaker1: don't worry, louis, you're conscience is clear. you left her alive.
speaker1: claudia, claudia, listen to me. you're ill, my precious and i'm going to give you what you need to get well.
speaker2: lestat, what do you mean?
speaker1: that's it dear. more. you must drink it to get well.
speaker1: stop, that's enough. no more.
speaker3: i want more.
speaker2: what have you done?
speaker3: more.
speaker1: yes, cherie, of course you want more. and i'll show you how to get it. you drink from morals, my beauty, but from me? never again.

speaker1: ah, quelle belle enfant! 
speaker2: gently, cherie. they are so
speaker3: you are the devil! you are the instrument of satan!
speaker2: that's enough, cherie. stop before the heart stops.
speaker4: i want some more.
speaker2: it's bet in the beginning, lest the death takes you down with it. yes, that's it. my child. my beloved child.
speaker4: where is mamma?
speaker2: mamma's gone to heaven, cherie, like that sweet lady over there. they all go to heaven. and you did very well, cherie. not a drop spilt. very good! you're going to be our child now.
speaker2: your mama's left you with us. she wants you to be happy.
speaker3: you are the devil! you are the instrument of satan!
speaker2: shhhh! do you want to frighten our little daughter?
speaker4: i'm not your daughter.
speaker2: yes you are, my dearest. you are mine and louis' daughter. you see louis was going to leave us. he was going to go away. but now he's not. he's going to stay and make you happy.
speaker4: lou...eee...
speaker3: you fiend. you monster.
speaker2: one happy family.
speaker5: a child vampire!
speaker3: shall we go on?
speaker5: he did it to make you stay with him!
speaker3: perhaps. he knew me. he knew i would love her more than the waking world. but there was more to it than that. perhaps in the end he did it - to show me that he could. for he lavished affection on her, there was no doubt about that. life was very different with madame claudia, as you can imagine...

speaker1: monsieur, i need more light. i shall go slind if you do not bring me a lamp, or let me fit this child during the day. ouch! 
speaker2: let me kiss it better...
speaker3: a little child she was, but also a fierce killer, now capable of the ruthless pursuit of blood with all a child's demanding.
speaker4: claudia, claudia, will you never learn? who will we get now to finish your dress? a little practicality, cherie...

speaker1: why are you crying, child? 
speaker1: are you lost, my love?
speaker2: mama...
speaker1: hush now, don't cry, we'll find her...
speaker2: mama...
speaker3: they found death fast in those days, before she learnt to play with the, to delay the moment till she had taken what she wanted...

speaker1: the thumb girl! mind the thumb! 
speaker2: they are expensive, my dear. maybe too expensive for a young girl like you...

speaker1: claudia, claudia! didn't i tell you, never in the house! 
speaker2: september 21st, one hour after sunset. the sky is still violet, the way louis loves and as always lestat was gone when we rose.
speaker3: how did you learn to write, claudia?
speaker2: the way i learn everything. by watching you.
speaker2: but you never let me see you kill, louis.
speaker3: lestat taught you all you need to know about that.
speaker2: infant death, he calls me. sweet daughter death. you know what he calls you? merciful death.
speaker3: he jests.
speaker2: why does he call you that?
speaker3: hush, claudia don't talk about such things. show me your book.
speaker3: claudia! you did that?
speaker2: sit still. it's not finished - she begins to fill in the sketch.
speaker3: time can pass fast for mortals when they're happy. with us it was the same.

speaker1: it was a very different life. and a new century was beginning. what had once been a small godforsaken french colony was growing into a great port, giving us an endless train of magnificent strangers... 
speaker1: all human life was here, for the taking. and we took, all three of us, in our different ways...

speaker1: you want to come inside, lovely? 
speaker1: ever been kissed?
speaker2: she's like me, louis. small and yet not small at all. like me.
speaker3: i watched her grow yet stay the same, her doll-like face possessed of adult eyes, eerie, powerful, seductive...

speaker1: another doll? i have ten, you realize. 
speaker2: well, i thought you could use another.
speaker1: why always on this night?
speaker2: what night? what do you mean?
speaker1: you always give me the doll on the same night of the year.
speaker2: i didn't realize.
speaker1: is this my birthday?
speaker2: some of these are so old and tattered. you should throw them away.
speaker1: i have. or there would be twice as many.
speaker2: but you're the fairest by far.
speaker1: you dress me like a doll. you make my hair like a doll. why?

speaker1: you want me to be a doll forever? 
speaker2: claudia - don't -
speaker1: why not?
speaker1: can't i change, like everybody else?

speaker1: which of you did it? which of you made me the way i am? 
speaker2: what you are? you would be something other than you are?
speaker1: and if i cut my hair again?
speaker2: it will grow back again!
speaker1: but it wasn't always so! i had a mother once! and louis - he had a wife! he was mortal the same as she! and so was i!
speaker3: claudia - she turns on lestat.
speaker1: you made us what we are, didn't you?
speaker2: stop her louis!

speaker1: how did you do it? 
speaker2: and why should i tell you? it's in my power.
speaker1: why yours alone? tell me how it was done!!!!
speaker2: be glad i made you what you are! you'd be dead not if i hadn't.
speaker3: we're immortal. you've always known that.
speaker1: tell me why... you've got to tell me...
speaker3: you see the old woman? that will never happen to you. you'll never grow old. you will never die.
speaker1: and it means something else too, doesn't it? i shall never, ever grow up.
speaker1: i hate him. but i cannot bear to lose you. you're the only companion i have, forever. you taught me everything i know. please tell me louis. tell me how it came to be that i am this... thing...
speaker3: come... i've something to show you...

speaker1: though everything was changed, through the years had warped the contours of the streets, i found my way there, aware that i'd always known where it was and avoided it, not wanting to pass the doorway where i'd first heard claudia cry. 
speaker1: i heard you crying. you were there in a room with your mother. you were hugging her for warmth, crying pitifully as you had been for days. because your mother was dead...
speaker1: i opened the shutters... i came into the room... i felt pity for you. pity, but something else.
speaker2: you... fed on me?
speaker1: and he found me with you. i ran, sickened at what i'd done. then he cut his wrist and fed you from him. i tried to stop him, but you were a vampire then. and have been every night hereafter.
speaker2: you both did it?
speaker1: i took your life. he gave you another one.
speaker2: and here it is. and i hate you both.
speaker3: but why did you tell her?
speaker1: how could i not? she had to know.
speaker3: and did you lose her? did she go?
speaker1: where would she have gone? she was a child, and beautiful, heartbreaking merciless child. and i had made her that...
speaker1: i walked all night. i walked as i walked years before when my mind swam with guilt at the thought of killing. i found myself at the cathedral.
speaker1: i thought of all the things i had done and couldn't undo. and i longed for one second's peace...

speaker1: i had no fear. if anything i longed for something to happen, for the stones to tremble as i entered the foyer. 
speaker1: i almost genuflected from old habit. i almost prayed.
speaker1: and then it struck me.
speaker2: the cross, the statues, the tabernacle.
speaker1: what if the statues gave an image to nothing? what if i was the supernatural in this cathedral? the only immortal under this roof. and i felt nothing but loneliness. loneliness to the point of madness.
speaker3: you wish to go to confession? i was about to lock up the church.
speaker3: you are troubled, aren't you? can i help?
speaker1: it's too late, too late -
speaker4: no, it's never too late. come...

speaker1: bless me father for i have sinned so often and so long, i don't know how to change nor beg for forgiveness. 
speaker2: son, is infinite in his capacity to forgive. tell him from your heart.
speaker1: murders, father, death after death. the woman who died two nights ago in jackson square, i killed her. and thousands of others before her. i have walked the streets of new orleans like the grim reaper. and fed on human life for my own. i am a vampire, father, and have turned the one i love most of all into on too -
speaker2: do you know the meaning of sacrilege?
speaker1: then there is no mercy.
speaker1: you talk of sacrilege. why if exists does he suffer me to exist?
speaker1: why does he suffer me to live?

speaker1: locked together in hatred - 
speaker1: but i can't hate you louis.
speaker1: is this the aroma of a mortal child?
speaker1: louis. lover.
speaker1: i was mortal to you. you gave me your immortal kiss. you became my mother and my father. and so i'm yours. forever.
speaker1: but now's the time to end it, louis. now's the time to leave him.
speaker2: he'll never let us go.
speaker1: oh... really?

speaker1: so we made plans. she was convinced there were others of our kind in europe, that they would have the answers lestat couldn't provide. lestat whom she now hated, who she thought she could be free of. i doubted, but then she had a surprise in store... 
speaker2: what is it now? you irritate me!
speaker3: does it?
speaker2: yes. and i'll tell you something else! i've met someone who will make a better vampire than both of you.
speaker3: is that supposed to frighten me?
speaker2: you're spoilt because you're an only child. you need a brother. or i do. i'm weary of you both.
speaker3: i suppose we could people the world with vampires, the three of us.
speaker2: not you my dear.
speaker3: you're a liar. but you upset my plans.
speaker2: what plans?
speaker3: i came to make peace with you, even if you're the father of lies. i want things to be as they were.
speaker2: stop pestering me then!
speaker3: oh, lestat. i must do more than that. i've brought a present for you.
speaker2: then i hope its a beautiful woman with endowments you will never possess.
speaker3: better than that.
speaker3: you haven't fed enough. i can tell by your color.

speaker1: oh, claudia, you've outdone yourself. where did you find them? 
speaker2: drunk on brandy wine. a thimbleful.
speaker1: we forgive each other then?
speaker1: absinthe? you gave them absinthe?
speaker2: no. laudanum.
speaker1: laudanum!
speaker2: yes. it killed them, unfortunately. but it keeps the blood warm.
speaker1: ah louis, louis, she killed them... and let me drink...
speaker2: don't louis -
speaker1: louis, put me in my coffin...
speaker2: i'll put you in your coffin. forever.
speaker3: claudia! don't do this thing!!!
speaker1: louis, louis, i gave you the gift - help me -
speaker3: what have you done, claudia -
speaker2: louis! look what's happening to him!!
speaker3: lestat. oh, forgive us.
speaker2: don't mock me, louis. help me.
speaker2: goodnight, sweet prince, may flights of devils wing you to your rest.
speaker3: he's dead, claudia, dead.
speaker2: the one good lesson he taught me, louis. never drink from the dead.
speaker2: help me. we must get rid of him.
speaker2: should we burn him? bury him? what would he have liked, louis?
speaker3: don't mock, claudia...
speaker2: the swamp...

speaker1: in europe, louis. we shall meet our own kind. find the one who made him. learn what it means. 
speaker2: and suppose the one who made him knows nothing and the vampire who made him knows nothing, and it goes back, nothing proceeding from nothing, until there is nothing! and we must live with the knowledge that there is no knowledge.

speaker1: and if we find the one who made him? do we tell him we destroyed his own creation? the vampire lestat? 
speaker2: he belongs with those reptiles, louis. he deserved to die.
speaker1: then maybe so do we. every night of our lives. he was my brother. my maker. he gave me this life, whatever it is.
speaker2: i did it for us, louis. so we could be free.
speaker2: louis, look at me.
speaker1: claudia - you're crying -
speaker2: you never talked to me like that - in all these years.
speaker1: and you never cried -
speaker2: i can't bear it when you do - i would die rather than lose you louis. i would die the way he died.
speaker1: hush, claudia, hush now my dear -
speaker2: tell me you don't hate me louis. i did it for you - louis walks her towards the carriage.
speaker1: i love you claudia. always. and we are free now, claudia. no lestat. just the two of us, beginning the great adventure of our lives.

speaker1: the birds. we forgot about the birds. there's nothing for it but to let them go. 
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: the workmen must have a trunk - don't stop, cherie -
speaker2: louis!!!

speaker1: reaches the stairs. she screams - 
speaker1: don't louis -

speaker1: it can't be - 
speaker2: it is! take the back stairwell -

speaker1: the ship is sailing without us! 
speaker2: not yet. holding her tightly, louis runs.

speaker1: with flame lighting up the sky. 
speaker2: though the fire seemed to spread through the quartier, i stood on that deck until dawn, fearful he would come out again of the very river like some monster to destroy us both. and all the while i thought, lestat, we deserve your vengeance. you gave me the dark gift. and i delivered you into the hands of death for the second time.
speaker3: did he die in the fire?
speaker2: he was dead to us. we were free.
speaker2: though the ship was blessedly free of rats, a strange plague nonetheless struck its passengers.

speaker1: louis, your quest is for darkness only. this sea is not your sea. they myths of men are not your myths. their history isn't yours. 
speaker2: in the moonlight.
speaker3: we saw the acropolis by moonlight, shades of grey and silver. and i longed for the brilliant white of those marbles in the hot sun of homer...

speaker1: the quest for these old world vampires filled me with bitterness. we searched village after village, ruin after ruin and i was glad when always we found nothing. for what could the really have to say to the damned? 
speaker2: you found nothing?
speaker1: peasant rumors, superstitions about garlic, crosses, stakes in the hear, all that - how do you say again? bull but one of our kind? not a whisper.
speaker2: no vampires in transylvania? no count dracula?
speaker1: fictions, my friend. the vulgar fictions of a demented irishman...

speaker1: help me, mon chere... 
speaker1: how do i look?
speaker2: still my beautiful child.
speaker1: a beautiful child! is that what you still think i am?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: why do you turn away? why don't you look.
speaker1: you want me to be your daughter forever, don't you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well tell me, papa. what was it like making love?
speaker1: you don't remember? or you never knew.
speaker2: it was something hurries...and seldom savored... something acute that was quickly lost. it was the pale shadow of killing.
speaker1: but how will i ever know, louis?
speaker1: i'll never find them, will i? my own kind...

speaker1: have i anything in common with her, louis? 
speaker1: or her, or her - or any of them?
speaker2: claudia, you torture yourself.
speaker1: they are ducklings, that will grow into swans. whereas i must be the duckling forever.
speaker2: you are more beautiful than any of them.

speaker1: are they my kind louis? dolls never change either. 
speaker2: you are neither, claudia. now stop this -
speaker2: you know her?
speaker1: yes. should i take her, louis? among her dolls? make a doll of her in turn?
speaker2: come, claudia...
speaker2: for a time we had been almost human, in the sensual whirl of what paris had to offer. but the human delights of that city only served to remind her of the ageless child she had become. i felt her pain as i walked until i become aware that i was being followed.
speaker3: walking. a step echoes his.
speaker2: claudia!
speaker2: so it was when i had given up the search for vampires that a vampire found me...
speaker4: clever.
speaker2: you mean me harm?
speaker5: you mean me harm?
speaker2: trickster. buffoon!
speaker2: i've searched the world for an
speaker6: he looks like an angel.
speaker6: you are all right.
speaker7: by special invitation friday, 9 p.m."
speaker6: bring the petit beauty with you. no one will harm you. i won't allow it. remember my name. armand. armand bows and vanishes.

speaker1: remember what i've told you. they'll have different powers. they'll read your thoughts if you allow it. 
speaker2: reading -

speaker1: but this can't be real. this is nonsense. 
speaker2: nonsense all right. but something tell me it's going to be the strangest nonsense we've ever seen.

speaker1: mortals, mortals everywhere. and lots of drops to drink. 
speaker2: they are here. i know they are. listen for something that doesn't make a sound. stage: curtain rises.
speaker2: they use no paint. and the audience think it is paint.
speaker1: how devilishly clever.
speaker1: she's no vampire.
speaker2: no. she's frightened. she doesn't know where she is.
speaker3: i don't want to die!
speaker4: we are death!
speaker3: someone help me. please... what have i done?
speaker2: this is no performance.
speaker1: and no one knows but us...

speaker1: we all die. death is the one thing you share with all those here. 
speaker2: rapt faces.

speaker1: but i'm young... 
speaker2: death is no respecter of age. he can come any time, any place. need i tell you what fate has in store for you?
speaker1: i would take my chance. let me go!
speaker2: and if you take that chance and live, what is your fate? the humpbacked toothless visage of old age?

speaker1: this is monstrous! 
speaker2: yes, and very beautiful.

speaker1: just as this flesh is pink now, it will turn grey and wrinkle with age. 
speaker2: let me live, please. i don't care.
speaker1: then why should you care if you die now?
speaker3: is awestruck by her beauty, her suffering.
speaker1: draws near her cheek.
speaker1: and suppose death had a heart to love and to release you? to whom would he turn his passion? would you pick a person from the crowd there? a person to suffer as you suffer?
speaker3: a young girl cries out in jest.
speaker4: oh, yes, take me monsieur vampire! i adore you!

speaker1: you wait your turn. the audience laughs again. 
speaker1: well, have you a sister, a mother, a daughter you would send in your place?

speaker1: shakes her head. she is helpless. 
speaker2: we alone can give death meaning. do you know what it means to be loved by death, to become our bride?

speaker1: no pain. 
speaker2: no pain?
speaker1: your beauty is a gift to us.

speaker1: who deserves such a gift? 
speaker2: no pain...
speaker3: who battles desire and hunger with anger.
speaker4: i've seen enough of this! i loathe it!
speaker5: be still!

speaker1: patience, louis. patience. 
speaker2: we've been searching for you for a very long time...

speaker1: walls are painted with famous copies of durer, 
speaker2: such a darling.
speaker3: monstrous.
speaker4: yes, and very beautiful.
speaker3: your lips, they didn't move.
speaker4: they did, but too fast for you to see them. no magic, just grace and speed.
speaker4: he wants you...

speaker1: disappointing, isn't it? to come so far and find so little. jaded ingenues, amusing themselves with make- believe... 
speaker2: we had feared we were the only ones...
speaker1: but how did you come into existence?
speaker1: you don't want to answer... two vampires from the new world, come to guide us into the new era as all we love slowly rots and fades away.
speaker2: are you the leader of this group?
speaker1: if there were a leader, i would be the one.
speaker2: so you have the answers...
speaker1: ah! you have questions?
speaker2: what are we?
speaker1: nothing if not vampires...
speaker2: who made us what we are?
speaker1: surely you know the one who made you...
speaker2: but the one who made him, who made the one who made him, the source of all this evil...
speaker1: that is a picture, nothing more.
speaker2: you mean we are not children of satan?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: i understand. i saw you in the theatre, your suffering, your sympathy for that girl. i saw you with the boy. you die when you kill, you feel you deserve to die and you stint on nothing. but does that make you evil? or, since you comprehend what you call goodness, does it not make you good?
speaker2: then there is nothing.
speaker1: perhaps...
speaker1: and perhaps this is the only real evil left...
speaker2: then does not exist...
speaker1: i have not spoken to him...
speaker2: and no vampire here has discourse with or the devil?
speaker1: none that i've ever known. i know nothing of or the devil, i have never seen a vision nor learnt a secret that would or save my soul. and as far as i know, after four hundred years i am the oldest living vampire in the world.
speaker2: my so it's as i always feared. nothing, leading to nothing.
speaker1: you fell too much. so much you make me feel...
speaker1: the one who made you should have told you this. the one who left the old world for the new...
speaker2: he knew nothing. he just didn't care.
speaker1: knew? you mean he is... claudia appears suddenly to louis' shoulder, interrupting.
speaker3: come, beloved. it's time we were on our way. i'm hungry and the city waits.
speaker1: so soon to go?

speaker1: the place was dark as we left, a darkness that confounded even claudia. and as we blundered through it, again came the thought: i have wronged lestat, i have hated him for the wrong reasons. 
speaker2: how did you wrong him?
speaker1: you read my thoughts?
speaker2: you said a name -
speaker1: a name i don't want to say again.
speaker2: i seemed to recognize it...
speaker2: there is but one crime among us vampires here.
speaker2: you should know, who are so secretive about the vampire who made you.
speaker3: boredom!
speaker2: it is the crime that means death to any vampire. to kill your own kind!
speaker3: aaaah! i was so afraid it was to be born like venus out of the foam, as we were! come louis, let's go!
speaker3: i loathe them! i can't stand the sight of them! stupid bourgeois parisians, all dressed in black like some private club! i've searched for them the world over and i despise them!
speaker1: what danger?
speaker3: i can feel it from them! they want to know who made us, what became of him. they have their rules, their idiotic rules!
speaker1: do you think i would let them harm you?
speaker3: no, you would not, louis. danger hold you to me.
speaker1: love holds you to me. and we are in danger, not you.
speaker3: love?
speaker3: you would leave me for armand if he beckoned you.
speaker1: never.
speaker3: he wants you as you want him. he's been waiting for you. he wants you for a companion. he bides his time that place. he finds them as dull and lifeless as we do.
speaker1: that's not so.
speaker3: do you know what his soul said to me without saying a word? when he put me in that trance...
speaker1: so you felt it too!
speaker3: let him go, he said. let him go.
speaker3: is that what i should do louis? let you go? my father? my lover? my louis, who made me?
speaker1: he can protect us, claudia.
speaker3: you really believe that?

speaker1: i was waiting for you... 
speaker2: listen to me.
speaker2: claudia is dear to me. my...
speaker1: your lover.
speaker2: no, my beloved, my child.
speaker1: if you say so. you are innocent.
speaker2: i'm not innocent. but i'm afraid. she feels she's in danger from the others.
speaker1: she is.
speaker2: but why?
speaker1: i could give you reasons. her silence. her youth. it's forbidden to make so young, so helpless, that cannot survive on its own.
speaker2: then blame the one who made her...
speaker1: did you kill this vampire who made you both? is that why you won't say his name? santiago thinks you did.
speaker2: we want no quarrel with him.
speaker1: it's already begun. if you want to save her, send her away.
speaker2: then i leave too.
speaker1: so soon? without any of those answers you so longed for?
speaker2: you said there were none.
speaker1: but you asked the wrong questions. do you know how few vampires have the stamina for immortality? how quickly they perish of their own will.
speaker2: we can do that?
speaker1: you would never give up life. if the world were reduced to one empty cell, on fragile candle, you stay alive and study it. you see too clearly. you see too much.
speaker2: that's what the one who made me said.
speaker1: how he must have loved you.
speaker1: louis, i need you more than he ever did. i need a link with this century. the world changes. we do not. therein lies the irony that ultimately kills us. i need you to make contact with this age.
speaker2: he? don't you see? i'm not the spirit of any age! i'm at odds with everything and always have been! i'm not even sure what i am!
speaker1: but louis, that is the very spirit of your age. the heart of it. you fall from grace has been the fall of a century.
speaker2: and the vampires of the theatre?
speaker1: like moths around the candle of the age. decadent, useless. they can't reflect anything. but you do. you reflect its broken heart.
speaker1: are these not the answers you came for?
speaker2: yes... my
speaker1: a vampire with a human soul. an immortal with a mortal's passion. you are beautiful, my friend. lestat must have wept when he made you -
speaker2: lestat! you knew lestat!
speaker1: yes i knew him. knew him well enough not to mourn his passing.
speaker1: but you must go now. you must get her safely out of paris.
speaker1: no-one else knows of this door. when you knock you will find me waiting...

speaker1: madeleine... louis is shy. 
speaker2: drink.
speaker1: do it louis. because i cannot do it. i haven't the strength. you saw to that when you made me.
speaker3: you haven't the vaguest conception under of what you ask!
speaker2: au contraire, monsieur, i have.
speaker1: you have found your new companion, louis! you will make me mine!
speaker3: how do we seem to you? do you think us beautiful, magical, our white skin, our fierce eyes? drink, you ask me! have you any idea of the thing you will become?
speaker1: your evil is that you cannot be evil! and i will suffer for it no longer!
speaker3: don't make me, claudia! i cannot do it!
speaker1: yet you could do it to me! snatching me from my mother's hands like two monsters in a fairy-tale! couldn't you have waited? six more years and i would have had that shape! and now you weep! you haven't tears enough for what you've done to me.
speaker1: you give her to me! do this before you leave me!
speaker1: oh i love you still, that's the torment of it. but you know i must leave you louis...
speaker3: yes...
speaker1: and who will care for me my love, my dark angel, when you are gone?
speaker3: you promise to care for her then?
speaker2: yes...
speaker3: and you know what you ask for?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what do you think she is, madeleine? a doll?
speaker2: a child who can't die...

speaker1: and the child who did die? 
speaker2: my daughter...
speaker1: look at the gaslight. don't take your eyes off it. you will be drained to the point of death, but you must stay alive. do you hear me?
speaker2: yes!

speaker1: louis! 
speaker2: she is dying. it happened to you too, but your child's mind can't remember.
speaker1: but if she dies...
speaker2: it's only mortal death.
speaker2: bear me no ill will, my love. we are now even.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: what died tonight inside that room was not that woman. it will take her many nights to die, perhaps years. what has died in that room tonight is the last vestige in me of what was human.
speaker1: yes father. at last. we are een.
speaker3: silhouetted, coming closer.
speaker1: looks up and screams.

speaker1: armand! get me armand! he wouldn't countenance this - 
speaker2: you can make no demands here! buffoon! -

speaker1: louis... 
speaker2: is he the one?
speaker1: no, the child. the child was the one...
speaker2: all the murderers!!!
speaker3: you are alive, lestat! it can't be murder! tell them how you treated us...
speaker1: no... you come back to me louis...
speaker3: are you mad???
speaker4: the sentence is death! to all of them!!!
speaker1: only the girl - it was the girl -
speaker1: you promised me - i could take him back to new orleans - louis - there's something i must tell you - about that night - that night i met you -
speaker3: you let her go, lestat - you let her free - and i'll come back with you - santiago grabs louis by the neck.
speaker2: death for the others. for you eternity in a box -
speaker2: walled in a dungeon. your only company will be your screams... perhaps it will take centuries...
speaker1: he's coming home with me - you promised -
speaker2: we promised nothing!
speaker3: they've fooled you, lestat! you must reach armand! armand has the power!

speaker1: above him, reaching down to take his hand. 
speaker1: hurry. don't make a sound.
speaker2: where is she? where's claudia?
speaker1: follow me - that way - through my cell -
speaker2: not without claudia. where is she?
speaker1: i can't save her.
speaker2: you can't believe i'd leave without her. armand! you must save her! you have no choice.
speaker1: louis, i can't save her. i will only risk losing you -
speaker3: you'll come home with me louis? for a little while... until i am myself again.

speaker1: i couldn't prevent it. 
speaker2: i don't believe you. i do not have to read your soul to know that you lie.
speaker1: louis, they cannot be brought back. there are some things that are impossible, even for me.
speaker2: you let them do it.
speaker2: you held sway over them. they feared you. you wanted it to happen.
speaker1: louis, i swear i did not.
speaker2: i understand you only too well. you let them do it, as i let lestat turn a child into a demon. as i let her rip lestat's heart to pieces! well i am no longer that passive fool that has spun evil from evil till the web traps the one who made it. your melancholy spirit of this century! i know what i must do. and i warn you - you saved me tonight, so i return the favor - do not go near your cell in the theatre des vampires again.

speaker1: chiming five a.m. 
speaker2: looking at the paling sky. he is in an alleyway, outside of armand's cell. he has a huge keg with him. he finds the door unlocked. he enters.

speaker1: you didn't even warm them, did you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and yet you knew what i would do.
speaker2: i knew. i rescued you, didn't i?
speaker1: you were their leader. they trusted you.
speaker2: you made me see their failings, louis. you made me look at them with your eyes.
speaker2: your melancholy eyes...
speaker1: what a pair we are. we deserve each other, don't we?
speaker2: we are a pair, and that's what counts.
speaker1: we left paris shortly after. for years we wandered. greece, egypt, all the ancient lands. then, out of curiosity, perhaps, boredom, who knows what, i took him home, to my america...
speaker1: and there, a technological wonder allowed me see sunrise, for the first time in two hundred years...
speaker1: and what sunrises! seen as the human eye could never see them. we would sit in the dark, night after night among nameless humans, entranced with the miracle of light. silver at first, then as the years progressed in tones of purple, red and my long-lost blue... the sunrises continue, in color now, and the backgrounds in them change to the fifties.
speaker1: and in time parted. we had become so alike, we both wanted the certainties of loneliness once more.

speaker1: and then on prytania street, only blocks from the lafayette cemetery i caught the scent of death and it wasn't coming from the graves... 
speaker1: the scent grew stronger as i walked. old death. a scent too faint for mortals to detect.

speaker1: they were like the doomed princess caught in the thorny vines of sleeping beauty's castle. i knew what it meant. a vampire had lured them here, but had been to weak to get rid of them. 
speaker1: it spelt weakness, madness, the behavior of a dying animal that pollutes its own lair.
speaker2: lestat lying on the floor. he is gaunt to near

speaker1: lestat escaped the fire! 
speaker2: he hadn't even been there. and all those years i thought he was dead.

speaker1: i'm so glad you're here louis... 
speaker2: don't try to speak... it's alright...
speaker1: i didn't mean to let them do it...
speaker2: that's all past, lestat.
speaker1: yes. past... she should never have been one of us...
speaker1: still beautiful louis. you always were the strong one.
speaker2: don't fear me, lestat. i bring you no harm.
speaker1: you've come back to me, louis? you've come again to me?
speaker2: it's only a siren...
speaker1: i can't bear it louis! the machines out there, that fly and that roar! and such lights! they make the night brighter than the day!
speaker2: and they frighten you?
speaker1: you know i love the dark. but there's no dark anymore.
speaker2: it's false light, lestat. it can't harm you...
speaker1: if you stayed with me louis, i could venture out... little by little... become the old lestat.
speaker2: i have to go now lestat...
speaker1: you remember how i was, louis.. the vampire lestat...
speaker2: yes. i remember...
speaker1: i tried to tell you louis... that night in paris... when i first came to you... no-one can refuse the dark gift, louis... not even you.
speaker2: i tried...
speaker1: and the more you tried, the more i wanted you... a vampire with your beautiful, suffering human heart. and how you suffered... i need your forgiveness, louis.
speaker2: you have it...
speaker1: you'll come back, louis... take me out... little by little... and maybe i'll be myself again...
speaker2: yes, lestat...

speaker1: and my story ends there. but in fact it ended a long time ago, with claudia's ashes in that theatre. my love died with her. i never really changed after that. what became of lestat i have no idea. i go on, night after night. i feed on those who cross my path. but all my passion went with her yellow hair. i ma a spirit with preternatural flesh. detached. unchangeable. 
speaker2: no... it can't end like that...
speaker1: but it has. there is no more to tell.
speaker2: but you talk about passion, about longing, about things i'll never know in my life! it's still inside you, in every syllable you speak! and then you tell me it ends like that? just empty?
speaker1: it's over, i'm telling you...
speaker2: you need a new passion, louis, a new reason to feel... what a story you've told, you don't understand yourself.
speaker1: do what you want with it. learn what you can. give the story to others.
speaker2: you have another chance, louis. take me! give me your gift, your power...
speaker1: is this what you want? you ask me for this after all i've told you?
speaker2: if i could see what you've seen, feel what you've felt i wouldn't let it end like this! you need a like to the world out there, a connection... then it won't end like this...
speaker2: you need me.
speaker1: dear i've failed again, haven't i?
speaker2: no...
speaker1: don't say anymore. the reels are still turning. i have but one chance to show you the meaning of what i've said.
speaker1: you like it? you like being food for the immortals? you like dying? is it beautiful? is it intense?
speaker2: no... please...
speaker1: thank
speaker2: louis... louis... he looks up at the tape. it is still turning.
speaker2: holy

speaker1: 1791. that's when it happened. i was twenty-four. younger then you are now. suddenly a bony hand shoots out from the back seat, pulls his neck backwards - 
speaker2: sinks his teeth in his neck.

speaker1: swinging free of malloy's dying hands. 
speaker2: veers wildly into oncoming traffic.
speaker3: drinks regardless.
speaker4: coming towards them, about to crush the car.
speaker5: grabs the wheel, jerks it as he drinks.
speaker2: misses the truck by inches.

