speaker1: green, berry and hill. 
speaker1: freeze frame on the last hanging image.
speaker1: ...and i would like to think this was only a matter of chance.

speaker1: as reported in the reno gazzette, june of 1983 there is the story of a fire --- 
speaker2: the trees are on fire....moments later....
speaker1: --- the water that it took to contain the fire --

speaker1: the weight of the guilt and the measure of coincidence so large, craig hansen took his life. 
speaker2: ...forgive me...

speaker1: and when the shotgun accidentaly went off, sydney just happend to pass -- 
speaker2: you crazy what are you doing?

speaker1: i didn't know -- i didn't know -- 
speaker2: she always threatens me with the gun, but i don't keep it loaded --
speaker3: -- and you didn't load the gun?
speaker2: why would i load the gun?

speaker1: her accidental shotgun blast hits sydney in the stomach as he passes the arguing sixth floor window -- 
speaker1: he is killed instantly but continues to fall -- only to find, three stories below -- a safety net installed three days prior for a set of window washers that would have broken his fall and saved his life if not for the hole in his stomach.

speaker1: we need more dog food -- 
speaker2: -- talk in the car, talk in the car, moves your ass, c'mon --
speaker2: cmon,cmon,cmon, that one to?
speaker1: i need this one.
speaker2: why the do you need all four bags of books to go to school each day?
speaker1: i can't carry all of them. i need them. i need my books.

speaker1: should be one-thirty. 
speaker2: i got an audition, i won't make it here 'till two, c'mon, i'll see you later. love you.
speaker1: love you too.

speaker1: promethius. 
speaker2: it is!

speaker1: you were really cute when you were on that show -- 
speaker2: -- you can't answer any questions right now though, huh? he-he-he.

speaker1: great, great, great, so i'll see you tommorrow morning. 
speaker2: you're running around like crazy, huh?
speaker1: i'm gonna be late for work.

speaker1: what the hell? what the hell? 
speaker2: hey! it's quiz kid donnie smith.
speaker3: quiz kid donnie, why'd you drive into the seven eleven?

speaker1: is what this is. 
speaker2: is right, in'it?

speaker1: i love you, my darling. 
speaker1: i'll be back in a while, phil. i have to go get some things and

speaker1: what? what? what now? 
speaker2: quietly, slow down, whoa --
speaker1: you can't just come in here.
speaker2: the door was open, i got a call --
speaker1: you're just come in --
speaker2: calm down.
speaker1: i am calm.
speaker2: i got a call to this apartment, report of a disturbance --
speaker1: there's no disturbance.
speaker2: i got a call of a disturbance, you're door was open, i just wanna see what's goin' on --
speaker1: there's no disturbance.
speaker2: then you've got nothin' to worry about.
speaker1: you don't tell me, i know my rights, just come right in, you can't --
speaker2: don't test me, you wanna talk about what the law book says, we can do that, push me far enough and i'll take you to jail -- now calm down.

speaker1: you're not calm. you're screamin' and yellin' and i'm here to check on a disturbance that was reported and that's what i'm gonna do - now are you alone in here? 
speaker2: i don't have to answer your questions.
speaker1: no you don't: but i'm gonna ask you one more time: are you alone in here?
speaker2: what does it look like?
speaker1: no one else in here?
speaker2: you're here.
speaker1: ok. that's true. is anyone else, besides me and besides you in this house?
speaker2: no. i said that.
speaker1: are you lyin' to me?
speaker2: i live alone.
speaker1: maybe so, but i'm gonna ask you one more time: is anyone else in this house right now?
speaker2: no i said.
speaker1: ok. what's your name?
speaker2: marcie.
speaker1: ok. marice why don't you take a seat for me?
speaker2: i preffer to stand.
speaker1: i'm not askin', marcie.
speaker2: i didn't do anything.
speaker1: maybe you didn't, but i'm here to find out about a disturbance. some neighbors called said they heard screaming and a loud crash.
speaker2: i don't know a loud crash.
speaker1: and what about screaming?
speaker2: i said: i don't know. you can't just come in here and start pokin' around --
speaker1: what's this, how did this happen?

speaker1: an ashtray fell, i don't know, maybe last night, i just woke up. 
speaker2: you just woke up. and what'd you have a party last night, the way this place looks?
speaker1: i went out last night.
speaker2: ok. marcie. starting now i want you to have a new attitude with me. the more you play games, the more suspicious i'm gonna become that you've been up to something.
speaker1: it's a free country, you can think anything you want.
speaker2: yes i can, marcie. and until you start givin' me some straight answers: i'm gonna assume that some mischief has been goin' on here.
speaker1: mischief? what the you talkin' about, mischief?
speaker2: bad and illegal behavior. that's what i mean. ok? mischief. now have you been doin' some drugs today?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you on any medication?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: been drinkin' today?
speaker1: it's ten o'clock in the morning --
speaker2: --- what was that?
speaker1: i didn't hear anything.
speaker2: no. no. stay down, marcie, sit back down on that couch --
speaker1: i don't have to do a thing.

speaker1: -- do not do this -- my gun is drawn and if i have to open that closet you will get shot -- step out now. 
speaker2: i told you there was no one in there!

speaker1: ...no...no use. i have a son, y'know? 
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: ...ah...
speaker2: where is he?
speaker1: i don't know...i mean, he's around, he's here, in town, y'know, but i don't know...he's a tough one...very....
speaker2: no.
speaker1: get a girlfriend.
speaker2: i'm trying.
speaker1: and do good things with her...share the thing...all that is true, y'know...find someone and hold on all that...where's linda?
speaker2: she went out. she said she went out to run some errands. she'll be back.
speaker1: she's a good girl. she's a little nuts, but she's a good girl i think.
speaker2: she loves you.
speaker1: ...ah...maybe...yeah...she's a good one...
speaker2: when was the last time you talked to your son?
speaker1: ....i dunn...o....maybe ten...five, fuck....that's another thing that goes --
speaker2: -- memory?
speaker1: time lines, y'know? i remember things but not so -- right there -- y'know?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: "yeah." the do you know?
speaker2: i've seen it before.
speaker1: other like me.
speaker2: there's no like you.
speaker1: ...cocksucker....
speaker2: how come every word you say is either "cocksucker," or "shitballs," or "fuck?"
speaker1: do me a personal favor --
speaker2: go myself?
speaker1: you got it.
speaker1: ...i can't hold onto this anymore...
speaker2: i'll get you another pain pill.
speaker1: ...gimme that phone...
speaker2: who are you gonna call?
speaker1: i wanna see this...where is he, do you know?
speaker2: who?
speaker1: jack.
speaker2: is jack your son?
speaker2: you wanna call him on the phone? we can call him, i can dial the phone if you can remember the number --
speaker1: -- it's not him. it's not him. he's the asshole...phil..c'mere...
speaker1: this is so boring...so goddamn... and dying wish and all that, old man on a bed...fuck...wants one thing:
speaker2: it's ok.
speaker1: ...find him on the...frank. his name's frank mackey --
speaker2: frank mackey. that's your son?
speaker1: that'snotmy name...find lily, gimmme that, give it --
speaker1: ifyougimmethat....overonthe....fuck.... i can't hold ontothis anymore...

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: we can go right in here. he started about thirty five minutes ago, but it's all getting pumped up now --

speaker1: hi. is frank there? 
speaker2: i think you have the wrong number.
speaker1: i'm looking for frank mackey.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: is this 509-9027?
speaker2: yeah. you have the wrong number.
speaker1: alright. thank you.
speaker2: yep.

speaker1: -- we're all set upstairs. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: you have everything you need?
speaker2: i'm set, thanks.
speaker4: denise?
speaker5: that's right --
speaker4: -- and she hurt you didn't she? i know, i know. i know how that can be brother, but let me tell you loud and clear what we will be teaching denise when we put our calendars to work and set goals: frank hops back up on the stage;
speaker4: little denise, i say this: i mark it up and i write it down and you've been warned: "by the end of may, you will know i'm not gay." "on the fourth of june, denise, you're gonna be lickin' my spoon." "and come august, you my big fat sausage." i've set goals for myself. and what? i've said "enough is enough." because why? she's not gonna be your pal. she's not gonna be your friend. you think she's gonna be there for you the second you need something? think again - this denise! but: listen up: that is not to say that we don't all need women as friends, 'cause we're gonna learn later on in chapter 23 that having a couple of chick-friends laying around can come in real handy in setting jealousy traps. but we'll get to that. number one
speaker4: create a crisis -- simple and clean, and if done properly can be quite effective in getting some bush. here we go: set a date with your so-called "friend." let's say you make it 7:30.

speaker1: you wait until about nine o'clock and you ring the doorbell. 
speaker1: she opens it up, as hell, but finds you sobbing your eyes out -- frank looks up at her and says:
speaker1: ...i can't believe what happened...
speaker1: you explain between sobs that you hit a dog on the way over to pick her up and you had to rush it to the animal hospital but by the time you got there --
speaker1: ...and it's paw was sticking out... and it was too late. it was too late.
speaker2: ohhh, shhhh...shhh...frank...

speaker1: hey, frank. it's cindy. i'm wondering if you wanna grab a bite and see a movie? 
speaker2: you very directly say:
speaker2: "i don't think i have anything to say to you, cindy." frank hangs up the phone.

speaker1: i can help you through this the best i know how but there are certain things you are gonna have to be strong about and take care of, now we can go over them, but i need to know that you're listening to me, ok? 
speaker2: i just, i just -- i just -- i'm just in a state, i know he's going and it's like i don't know how -- just tell me

speaker1: he has phil right now. 
speaker2: phil's one of the nurses from the service?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: if you're happy with phil taking care of him and helping you, that's fine,
speaker1: -- you don't understand: it's more pain
speaker2: we can fix that, because i can give you -- are you listening?
speaker1: i'm listening. i'm getting better.
speaker2: do you wanna sit down?
speaker1: i need to sit down.
speaker2: ok. linda: earl is not gonna make it. he's dying. he is. he is dying very, very rapidly -- she breaks a bit more.
speaker2: now the thing here is making that experience as painless and easy as possible for him, you understand? now you need to get in touch with hospice care because they can take care of all those practical things that you're asking me about -- they are who you call when he dies.
speaker2: this is the number for hospice.
speaker1: -- how the can i say anything
speaker2: the job here is to make him as comfortable as possible -- right now -- our job is to just try and make it as painless as possible. right? you understand?

speaker1: hello. is claudia here? 
speaker2: she's asleep.

speaker1: are you her boyfriend? 
speaker2: you're jimmy gator, right?
speaker1: yes. what's your name?
speaker2: i'm bob.
speaker1: you're her boyfriend?
speaker2: no, i'm just a friend. what are you doing here, i mean...you know claudia?
speaker1: i'm her father.
speaker1: can i come in?
speaker2: yeah. she's sleeping now, i mean --
speaker2: want me to wake her up?
speaker1: i'ii go....is it...back here?
speaker1: it's me. claudia. it's me.
speaker3: what do you want? why are you here?
speaker1: i'd like to talk to you. your boyfriend let me in, i just knocked on the door --
speaker3: he's not my boyfriend.
speaker3: wanna call me a now, something?
speaker1: no. no.
speaker3: what the do you want?
speaker1: i want to sit. i want to talk to you.
speaker3: don't sit down.
speaker1: ...i want to....i want so many things, claudia. maybe we can just talk to straighten our things out....there are so many things that i want to tell you --
speaker3: i don't wanna talk to you.
speaker1: please. it doesn't have to be now. maybe we can make a date to sit down, i didn't mean to walk in on you like this --
speaker3: why are you here, why are you doing this? coming in here -- you wanna call me a whore?
speaker1: i don't want you to think that i'm that way to you -- i'm not gonna call you a or something --
speaker3: yeah, yeah right -- what the are
speaker1: don't yell, honey. please don't go crazy --
speaker3: i'm not crazy. don't you tell me i'm crazy.
speaker1: i'm not saying that, i'm sorry --
speaker3: i'm not crazy. you're the one. you're the one who's wrong. you're the one --
speaker1: i have something, so much -- i'm sick, claudia. i'm sick.
speaker3: get out of here, get the out of my house --
speaker1: now stop it and listen to me right now. i am dying, i got sick...now i fell down and i'm not...don't --

speaker1: please put your clothes on, please -- 
speaker2: you burn in bell. you burn in and you deserve it -- you get the out.
speaker1: honey.

speaker1: beat. he stands a moment. 
speaker2: your mother wants to hear from you --

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: it's alright.
speaker3: can you get your and leave, please?

speaker1: don't donnie. don't do it. 
speaker2: this is so fucked, solomon.
speaker1: don't get strong, donnie. this is making sense, this making a lot of sense. you are not doing the job, the job i ask you to do, a job i give you. over and over and over and i'm sorry. but i'm not gonna say i'm sorry that much more.
speaker2: solomon: i am in the middle of so much. so much in my life and this is -- if you do this, if you fire me: i am i can't really explain much, but please, please, i've worked here for four years, four years i've given you and i'm, i'm, i mean what? i'm sorry i was late. i had a car accident. i accidentaly drove into a seven-eleven. it was not my fault.
speaker3: who's fault was it, don?
speaker1: avi, please, shut the up for one second. don, how much further do you want me to go in showing you, showing you what i've done for you in four years and what you've done back? do you want me to do it? i can. the loans i've given, how much your sales
speaker2: i don't have any money, solomon.
speaker1: -- i give you money, i give you a paycheck. your sales suck, don. i give, i give. when i find you, when i meet you, what? i put you on the billboard, i put you in the store, my salesman, my representation of solomon and solomon electronic, quiz kid donnie smith from the game show --
speaker2: i lent my name, my celebrity. exactly --
speaker1: you. i pay you, i paid you. i give you a chance and a chance and over and over, over you let me down. i trust you with so much. the keys to my store, the codes to my locks, the life, the blood of my bussiness and return is smashing in seven-eleven, late,
speaker1: two years! two years later and out of your paycheck, i never charge interest --
speaker2: solomon, please. please. i am so
speaker3: what surery?
speaker2: oral surgery. corrective teeth surgery.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: braces.
speaker1: braces?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you don't need braces.
speaker2: yes i do.
speaker1: your teeth are fine.
speaker3: your teeth are straight.
speaker2: i need corrective oral surgery.
speaker3: don, you got hit by lightning that time in tahoe, you went on vacation, i don't think braces is a good idea --
speaker2: i can't believe you're gonna do this to me, the situation i'm in, i don't -- avi: you know what? being hit by lighting doesn't matter for getting braces, ok? now solomon, let me just ask you once: please. please. don't do this.
speaker3: how are you paying tor the braces, donnie?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: and how much is braces?
speaker2: it's...doesn't matter....
speaker3: it's like five thousand dollars, i've seen it, i know --
speaker1: you're me off, don. this is so unbelievable -- so stupid, you're gonna spend five thousand dollars on braces you don't need --
speaker2: i've been a good worker --
speaker1: don't do this, don.
speaker3: no need for braces, donnie.
speaker1: where are you getting the money for this?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: you were gonna ask me weren't you?
speaker2: i've been a good worker, solomon.
speaker3: no need for braces, donnie.

speaker1: identified as porter parker, aged 59. better known as the dead guy in the closet. so says the building guy, this is her husband -- 
speaker2: -- he's doesn't live here, but he comes around, raises screaming, yelling, something or other --
speaker1: there's a son, apparently. and a kid.

speaker1: -- they are not to be found. 
speaker2: -- she's got six hundred dollars and a large box of condoms next to the bed --
speaker3: and three wedding rings.
speaker4: ok.
speaker2: -- guys come in, out and around all day, this is the building guy talking --
speaker5: the building guy says the son and the closet guy are always goin' at it --
speaker2: that's right.
speaker4: and what is she saying?
speaker5: not a thing.

speaker1: you have the dead body of your husband in the closet of your apartment, marcie. 
speaker2: that is not good.
speaker3: you hit him with the ashtray, you strangled him --
speaker4: -- tell us he fell and hit his head, but tell us something, marcie.
speaker2: why did you kill him?
speaker5: -- marcie: where's your son? marcie?
speaker6: i wanna talk to my lawyer.

speaker1: how much you pay me for my help? 
speaker2: i think it's more complicated than that little man.
speaker1: put me on the payroll, find out, find out wassup --
speaker2: you don't just sign up to be a police officer -- it's about three years of training -- ok?
speaker1: i'm trained, i'm ready to go, you wanna buy some candy to help underprivelaged youth in the --
speaker2: sorry, little man.
speaker1: you wanna take my statement, i'll perform for you, gotta get paid though, gotta get paid.
speaker2: why the aren't you in school?
speaker1: no school today. my teacher got sick.
speaker2: they don't have substitute teachers where you go to school?
speaker1: nope. so what'd they find out in there?
speaker2: that's confidential information, little man.
speaker1: tell me what you know, i'll tell you what i know --
speaker2: no can do.
speaker1: leave this one to the detectives, they ain't gonna solve i can help you, make you the man with a plan, give you the gift that i flow -- think fast -- you wanna know who killed that guy?
speaker2: ok. listen. you: c'mere.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you wanna disrespect an officer of the law?
speaker1: i can help you solve the case, i can tell you who did it.
speaker2: are you a joker? huh? tellin' jokes?
speaker1: i'm a rapper.
speaker2: oh, you're a rapper, huh? you got a record contract?
speaker1: not yet -- "give you the clue for the bust if you show me some trust --"
speaker2: have you ever been to juvenille hall?
speaker1: i ain't with you --
speaker2: hey. watch the mouth. watch it.
speaker1: c'mon, man, just watch me, watch and listen --
speaker2: go. hurry up. let's go.
speaker1: presence - with a double meaning gifts i bestow, with my riff, and my flow but you don't hear me though think fast, catch me, yo cause i throw what i know with a resonance - fo'yo'trouble-ass fiend in weenin yo-self off the back of the shelf crackas, bodystackas dicktootin niggas, masturbatin' yo trigga butcha y'all just fake-ass --
speaker2: -- watch the mouth, homeboy, i don't need to hear that word --
speaker1: -- livin' to get older with a chip on your shoulder 'cept you think you got a grip, cauze you hip gotta holster? ain't no confessor, so busta, you best just shut the up, try to listen and learn --
speaker2: alright, alright, cut it, coolio. that's enough with the mouth and the language.
speaker1: i'm almost done.
speaker2: finish it up without the lip.
speaker1: check that ego - come off it - i'm the profit - the proffesor ima teach you 'bout the worm, who eventually turned to catch wreck with the neck of a long time oppressor and he's runnin from the devil, but the debt is always gaining and if he's worth being hurt, he's worth bringin' pain in - when the sunshine don't work, the good lord bring the rain in.

speaker1: now that will help you solve the case. 
speaker2: whatever that meant, i'm sure it's real helpful ice-t.
speaker1: did you listen to me?
speaker2: i was listening --
speaker1: -- i told you who did it and you're not listening to me.
speaker2: -- and i'm through playin' games.

speaker1: you're late, not me. 
speaker2: you coulda been in front --
speaker1: -- i didn't see you from the window.
speaker2: you ready to keep winning?
speaker1: sure.

speaker1: there you are, there you are. 
speaker2: sorry we're late, cynthia.
speaker1: nothin' to it, no problem.
speaker3: i'm fine. yes. i'm fine.
speaker1: ready to go,go,go?
speaker3: where's richard and julia?
speaker1: they're here, they're fine. in the dressing room. see you later -- rick gives stanley a pat on the head;
speaker2: go to it, handsome.
speaker3: see you.

speaker1: who's ready to beat the record? 
speaker2: you scared us!
speaker3: that was close.
speaker1: it's cats and dogs out there --
speaker3: cats and dogs, indeed.
speaker4: where's the news department at this studio?
speaker5: it's upstairs.
speaker4: have you ever been there?
speaker5: sure, why?
speaker4: i'm wondering about the weather department. i'm wonderin' wether or not the weather people use outside meteorlogical services or if they have in-house instruments?
speaker5: i can check on that for you, maybe we can take a tour --
speaker4: ok.
speaker6: come in.
speaker7: rose is on the phone and here's the cards for today --
speaker6: fifteen minutes ago, where were those cards?
speaker7: i'm sorry.
speaker6: i need you to get me paula --
speaker7: you want her right now?
speaker6: yes. now. find her. she's somewhere in the building --
speaker7: we're on the air in twenty minutes, jimmy.
speaker6: find her, get her and tell her i want to talk to her, mary. hell.
speaker6: hello?

speaker1: i'm drinking. 
speaker2: slowly or quickly?
speaker1: as fast as i can.
speaker2: come home soon after the show.
speaker1: i went to see her -- some answers the door in his underwear, he's fifty years old, there's coke and laid out on the table --
speaker2: -- did she talk to you?
speaker1: she went crazy. she went crazy, rose.
speaker2: did you tell her?
speaker1: i don't know. i have to go, i don't have time and i have more drinking to do before i go march --
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: love you too..
speaker2: bye.

speaker1: lapd. open the door. 
speaker2: uh...uh...what is it?
speaker1: it's the lapd, can you open the door, please?
speaker2: just a minute just a...i have to get dressed --

speaker1: i understand, it's fine -- i wish the circumstance was better. 
speaker2: i don't know what's gonna happen, i really don't -- i'm so fucking, i feel so over the top with everything.
speaker1: mmm..hmm. running out of your medication at all, let alone at a time like this could be drastic, i'm glad you came in to see me, as short as this has been --
speaker2: thank you doctor diane --
speaker3: good luck with everything.

speaker1: hi. i'd like to get an order for delivery. 
speaker2: phone number.

speaker1: partridge? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what would you like?
speaker2: i'd like to get an order of...um...peanut butter.
speaker1: mmm.hmmm.
speaker2: cigarettes. camel lights.
speaker1: mmm.hmm.
speaker2: water.
speaker1: bottled water?
speaker2: um, no, y'know what? forget the water, just give me a loaf of bread...white bread.
speaker1: ok.
speaker2: and um....do you have swank magazine?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: ok. one of those. do you have ram rod?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: ok. one of those. and...um...barely legal?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: do you have that?
speaker1: yeah, i said. is that it?
speaker2: that's it.
speaker1: do you still want the peanut butter, bread and cigarettes ?
speaker2: yes. what? yes.
speaker1: total is $15.29. thirty minutes or less.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: hello, hello, i'm a bit out of breath from all this work -- 
speaker2: that's fine. it's nice to meet you.
speaker1: are we gonna tape some stuff now?
speaker2: if you're up to it, i've got us set up in a suite upstairs --
speaker1: you got us a room so quick?
speaker1: i'm kidding of course.

speaker1: all it takes is one second? 
speaker2: just one look, one hesitation, one subtle gesture for me to know -- and bing-bam-boom i'm away on a tangent -- i get so amped at these seminars and lemme tell you why: because i am what i believe. i am what i teach, i do as i say, i live by these rules as religiously as i preach them: and you wanna know what? i'm gettin' left, right, up, down, center and sideways.
speaker1: i'm gonna start rolling --
speaker2: -- go, go, go. i'm givin' pearls here. and i'ii tell you samethin' else: i'm not succeding in the bush because i'm frank tj mackey. if anything, there are women out there that want to
speaker2: what do you want to know?

speaker1: yeah, yes, hi, hello. 
speaker2: -- can i get you?
speaker1: diet coke.
speaker1: i want a shot of tequila too.
speaker2: -- what kind?
speaker1: it doesn't matter.

speaker1: not as much as i used to. ever since we started, i haven't really gone in to school that much because i've been getting more and more auditions -- 
speaker2: i don't have regular classes anymore.
speaker1: what do you do?
speaker2: they just let me have my own study-time, my own reading time in the library.
speaker1: that's pretty cool.
speaker3: do you have an agent, stanley?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you should get one, i'm serious, you could get a lot of stuff out of this --
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: what do you mean, "like what?" -- you could get endorsments and --
speaker4: -- richard.
speaker1: bite it, cynthia. you could get free things from people that want you to endorse their products.
speaker3: commercials, a sitcom, an mow or something.
speaker2: what's mow?
speaker3: movie of the week. i went up for one this morning with alan thicke and corey haim --
speaker1: was it a call back?
speaker3: no. but i probably will get a call back.
speaker1: if we beat the record, you might get a call back --
speaker3: i'll get it because i'm a good actress, richard.
speaker1: saucy-saucy.
speaker4: c'mon guys, settle down --
speaker2: cynthia?
speaker4: what?
speaker2: how much time do we have?
speaker4: not enough, what do you want?
speaker2: i should maybe go to the bathroom.
speaker4: can you hold it?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker4: just hold it, you'll be fine.
speaker3: here they come --
speaker2: they look pretty smart, i think.
speaker3: no they don't --
speaker1: what are they gonna do -- beat us?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker3: we're not going out two days before we set the record, it's not gonna happen.
speaker1: when they want us done, they'll call in the harvard s.w.a.t team or some

speaker1: what the is this, jimmy? 
speaker2: ...you know...
speaker1: did your wife find out?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then what?
speaker2: it's just...too late for me to be around. i gotta stop. i gotta clean my brain of all the i've done that i shouldn't have done --
speaker1: -- that you shouldn't have done? that you regret, what? this? what's this? man, c'mon. treat me like an asshole, but treat me like an
speaker2: thirty years i've been with rose, don't -- y'know -- with this, and i know what you think --
speaker1: all your other fluzzies?
speaker2: yeah. yes.
speaker1: you're making me feel so dirty and shitty. i feel like a big piece of right now.

speaker1: are you gonna tell her what you've done? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: will you say my name?
speaker2: if she asks me any question i want to tell her. i want to tell her everything i've done.
speaker1: well can you do me one favor and don't do that.
speaker1: come and tell me it's over and i'll walk away, jimmy. i've you behind your wife's back for three years, and you've teenage girls behind mine for the same amount of time -- i'll walk away, you need something for your life, for your conscience, but don't put me in the middle --
speaker2: i won't.
speaker1: what happend to you?
speaker2: i got in trouble at school.
speaker1: are you ok?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: ready to run. paula.
speaker1: burt.

speaker1: i'm hammered, burt. 
speaker2: you ok?
speaker1: ooohhhhhh no. burt good. you look these over?
speaker1: it's been the same thing for thirty years, burt --
speaker2: these adults are tough enough, i think you'll be surprised -- the mexican's a bit of a question mark -- jimmy falls straight to the floor.
speaker2: - - - jimmy -

speaker1: i'm coming! 
speaker2: yeah. hi. hello. reverse, close up - jim kurring - 40fps.
speaker3: ...yeah...
speaker1: i'm sorry, i had to get dressed.
speaker3: -- you the resident here?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: you alone in there?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: no one else in there with you?
speaker2: no, what's wrong?
speaker3: you mind if i come in, check things?
speaker1: for what?
speaker3: ok. for one thing, we're gonna need to turn that music down so we can talk, ok?
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker3: you live alone?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what's your name?
speaker2: claudia.
speaker3: claudia what?
speaker1: wilson.
speaker3: ok. claudia wilson: you tryin' to go deaf?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: did you hear what i said?
speaker1: yeah, but i don't know --
speaker3: -- listenin' to that music so loud: you tryin' to damage your ears?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: well if you keep listenin' to the music that loud you're not only gonna damage your ears but your neighbors ears.
speaker1: i didn't realize it was that loud.
speaker3: and that could be the sign of a damaged ear drum, you understand?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: you got the tv on too, keep those on at that same time usually?
speaker4: i don't know -- i mean. what is this?
speaker3: have you been drinkin' today, doin' some drugs?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: i got a call of a disturbance, screaming and yelling, loud music. has there been some screaming and yelling?
speaker1: yes. i had someone come to my door, someone i didn't want here and i told them to leave -- so -- it's no big deal.
speaker3: was it a boyfriend of yours?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: you don't have a boyfriend?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: who was it?
speaker1: i was...he's gone...i mean it's not. it's over, y'know --
speaker3: you mind if i check things back here?
speaker1: it's fine.
speaker1: what are you lookin' for?
speaker3: claudia: why don't you let me handle the questions and you handle the answers, ok?
speaker1: ok.
speaker3: you just move in here?
speaker1: about two years ago.
speaker3: bit messy.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: i'm a bit of a slob myself.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: you and your boyfriend have a party last night?
speaker1: i don't have a boyfriend.

speaker1: maybe i'm just happy to see my friend, brad there. 
speaker2: just throw some money around.
speaker1: this sounds threatening.
speaker2: do you have love in your heart?
speaker1: i have love all over. i even have love for you, friend.
speaker2: is it real love?
speaker1: well --
speaker2: -- the kind of love that makes you feel that intagible joy. pit of your stomach. like a bucket of acid and nerves running around and making you hurt and happy and all over you're head over heels....?
speaker1: well you lost me with the last couple of cocktail words spoken, m'boy, but i believe it's that sort of love.
speaker2: i have love.
speaker1: a very chatty-kind, you do, indeed, it seems.
speaker2: no. i mean, i'm telling you: i'm telling you that i have love.
speaker1: and i'm listening avidly, fellow.
speaker2: my name is donnie smith and i have lot's of love to give.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: wow. lot-o-stuff here, huh?

speaker1: the is wrong with you? 
speaker2: i gotta go to the bathroom.
speaker3: christ, stanley.

speaker1: julia's room is the same way. 
speaker2: like a pig sty. but it's the outfits that we're getting into now --
speaker1: you should have seen what she had on walking out the door --
speaker2: -- all dolled up.
speaker1: i said: "no. no. no. we are not going to a fashion show. you are going to school."
speaker3: -- it's not a fashion show, it's school.
speaker1: it is

speaker1: and the book says: "we may by through with the past, but the past ain't through with us." 
speaker2: c'mon, jimmy, snap up, snap up --
speaker1: in my sleep, burt.
speaker3: and...three...two...one....

speaker1: going into our thirty-third year on the air, it's america's longest running quiz show and the place where three kids get to challenge three adults and in the end see who's boss! 
speaker1: moving towards their eighth consecutive week as champions we have the kids: richard, julia and stanley.
speaker1: and our new adult challengers today are todd, luis, and mim.

speaker1: jerome samuel hall. did he have a fight with your husband? where they fighting? 
speaker2: maybe they had a fight, maybe it was an accident. maybe it was an accident?
speaker3: help him out, and help us get there before something else --
speaker1: help us help your son, marcie.

speaker1: jimmy behind the podium. 
speaker2: adults won a coin toss backstage and they'll have first choice: todd.
speaker3: i'll take "authors," jimmy.

speaker1: for 25. best known for the "tragedy and blood" genre, this author-playwright -- camera whips and pushes in on stanley. stanley thomas kyd. 
speaker1: this french playwright and actor joined the bejart troupe of actors -- stanley moliere.
speaker1: i'm gonna need a full name, stanley.
speaker2: jean baptiste poquelin moliere.

speaker1: it is. can i have your home phone number with area code? 
speaker2: well i don't want to order anything, you see. i have a situation, a situation just come up that's really pretty serious and i'm not sure who i should talk to or what i should do but could you maybe put me in touch with the right person if i explain myself?

speaker1: i'm really only equipped to take orders -- 
speaker2: well can you connect me to someone else?
speaker1: well what's the situation?
speaker2: well, ok. lemme see how i explain this without it seeming kinda crazy, but here go: i'm, my name is phil parma and i work for a man named earl partridge -- mr. earl partidge. i'm his nurse. he's a very sick man. he's a dying man and he's sick and he's asked me to help him, to help him find his son -- hello? are you there, hello?
speaker1: i'm here, i'm listening.
speaker2: ok. see: frank tj macky is earl partridge's son....

speaker1: around here. 
speaker2: the valley?
speaker1: hollywood, mainly.
speaker2: and what did your parents do?
speaker1: my father worked in televison. my mother -- this is gonna sound silly to you -- she was a librarian.
speaker2: why does that sound silly?
speaker1: well i guess it doesn't.
speaker2: does you mother still work?
speaker1: she's retired.
speaker2: are you close?
speaker1: she's my mother.
speaker2: what does she say about, "seduce and destroy."
speaker1: "go get 'em, honey."
speaker2: and your father?
speaker1: he passed away.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: people die.
speaker2: i wouldn'tve asked --
speaker1: not a problem.
speaker2: and you ended up at uc berkely --
speaker1: from '84 to '89.
speaker2: psychology major?
speaker1: right.
speaker2: do you have your masters?
speaker1: ...this close...
speaker2: in five years?
speaker1: muffy, can i get another ciggy?

speaker1: mmmhmm. 
speaker2: must have alot goin' on for all that stuff you got back there, eh? you could have quite a party all that stuff....
speaker2: you been on prozac long? dexadrine?
speaker1: ...i don't....
speaker3: interesting drugs. dexadrine's basically speed in a pill. y'know? but i guess a lot of doctors are balancing out the prozac with the dexadrine, eh? that liquid morphine'll knock you down, out, around, up and down someone's not careful.....can't mix those up, y'know... ...must have a lot goin' on in your life for all that stuff there.
speaker3: strong, strong stuff here, boy...wow....
speaker1: you motherfucker...you motherfucker....

speaker1: please, lady, why don't you just calm down -- 
speaker2: and you too. don't you call me "lady." i come in with these things, i give it over to you, you doubt, you make your phone calls, check on me, look suspicious, ask questions, "i'm sick." i have sickness

speaker1: i know -- and i can't really explain that, but i have a feeling there's something, some situation between them, like they don't really know each other much or well, something like they don't talk much anymore -- 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: does this sound weird?
speaker2: well i'm not sure why you're calling me.
speaker1: there's no number for frank in any of earl's stuff and he's pretty out of it -- i mean, like i said, he's dying, y'know. dying of cancer.
speaker2: what kind of cancer?
speaker1: brain and lung.
speaker2: my mother had breast cancer.
speaker1: it's rough. i'm sorry, did she make it?
speaker2: oh, she's fine.
speaker1: oh that's good.
speaker2: it was scary though.
speaker1: it's a helluva disease.
speaker2: sure is. so why call me?
speaker1: i know this all seems silly. i know that maybe i sound ridiculous, like maybe this is the scene of the movie where the guy is trying to get ahold of the long-lost son, but this is that scene. y'know? i think they have those scenes in movies because they're true, because they really happen. and you gotta believe me: this is really happening. i mean, i can give you my phone number and you can call me back if you wanna check with whoever you can check this with, but don't leave me hanging on this -- please -- please. see: see: see this is the scene of the movie where you help me out --

speaker1: like i said, yeah -- 
speaker2: and you went to van nuys high, right?
speaker1: i don't how much i went -- but i was
speaker1: what name? my name?
speaker2: it's not your given name, right?
speaker1: my mother's name, actually. good question. you've done you're research.
speaker2: and "frank?"
speaker1: "frank" was my mother's father.
speaker2: ok. that's why. i had trouble locating your school records at berkely and ucla. your name change -- they had no official enrollment --
speaker1: oh, yeah. no, no, no. they wouldn't --
speaker2: they wouldn't?
speaker1: no, no, no. certainly not. i wasn't officialy enrolled, that's right.
speaker2: kind of.
speaker1: i wouldn't want that to be misunderstood: my enrollment was totally unoffical because i was, sadly, unable to afford tuition up there. but there were three wonderful men who were kind enough to let me sit in on their classes, and they're names are: macready, horn and langtree among others. i was completely independent financially, and like i said: one sad sack a so what we're looking at here is a true rags to riches story and i think that's what most people respond to in "seduce," and at the end of the day? hey -- it may not even be about picking up chicks and sticking your in it -- it's about finding what you can be in this world. defining it. controling it and saying: i will take what is mine. you just happen

speaker1: hello! musical bonus question before we go to break and the lucky team is -- jimmy opens an envelope and reads: 
speaker1: kids in the lead and they get a chance to pull further and farther ahead -- with the following secret bonus musical question: i will read you a line from an opera and you are to give me the same line in the language in which the opera was originaly written and for a bonus 25 you can sing it. here's the line:

speaker1: yeah...it's not...it's been on for a bit -- 
speaker2: i like iced coffee, generally, but a day
speaker1: -- do you wanna cup?
speaker2: that's great, thank you. she starts heating/preparing him some coffee.
speaker1: i don't know how fresh it's gonna be --
speaker2: oh, it'll be fine, i'm sure, claudia.
speaker1: you take cream or sugar?
speaker2: that'd be fine. so, claudia, lemme just say, so i can get my role of lapd officer out of the way before we enjoy our coffee i'm not gonna write you up or anything, i'm not gonna give you a citation here -- but the real problem we have is that there are people around here, people that work from their homes, people tryin' to get some work done, and if you're listenin' to your music that loud: they're incovenienced by that. if you had a job you'd probably understand, but i see you like listenin' to your music and that's fine, you're just gonna wanna keep it down at a certain volume, maybe memorize what number you see on the dial and just always put it to that -- if it's the middle of the day -- that's what i do -- just put it on two and a half and that's a good listening level, alright? i see you like listenin' to your music loud, but, hey, forget about the neighbors, you end up damaging your own ears ok?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: arlight, then. cheers.
speaker2: is this boyfriend bothering you?
speaker1: i don't have a boyfriend.
speaker2: the gentleman who came to the door --
speaker1: -- is not my boyfriend.
speaker2: many times, in damestic abuse situations the young lady is afraid to speak, but i have to tell you that, being a police officer, i've seen it happen: young woman afraid to speak, next thing you know, i'm gettin' a call on the radio, i got a 422 --
speaker1: it's not -- what's a 422?
speaker2: it's where situations like these lead, claudia, unless you do something about it early, if and when the police call and come for help. now there are certain measures you can take --
speaker1: it's not my boyfriend -- and it's not anything -- it's over. really.
speaker2: i don't wanna have to come back here in an hour and find that there's been another disturbance.
speaker1: you won't. you won't have to.
speaker2: but i wouldn't mind comin' back in an hour just to see your pretty face!
speaker1: i'm gonna run to the bathroom real quick.
speaker2: okey-doke.

speaker1: are you alright? 
speaker2: i think i'm gonna throw up, i think. i haven't thrown up since i was twenty years old. jimmy stumbles over to a corner a bit;

speaker1: stanley, what's the problem? 
speaker2: i have to go to the bathroom, cynthia.
speaker1: christ, stanley, you can't go to the bathroom now. you have exactly one minute before we're back on the air, this is not the time to go to the bathroom.
speaker2: i'm, i need to go, i'm gonna --
speaker3: why does this kinda always happen, stanley? the adult challengers look over at the kids section;
speaker4: what's the problem over there?
speaker3: mind yer bussiness --
speaker5: watch your mouth, little man.
speaker6: why don't you mind your own bussiness?
speaker1: alright, stop it, cool down, cool it. please.
speaker4: i just asked what was going on --
speaker1: don't start trouble, luis.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: nothing's wrong, i just got some guy on the phone on my other line, he's says he works for this guy, this guy who's frank's father --
speaker1: -- no,no,no what is this? who?

speaker1: alright, so i'm gonna transfer you over to frank's assitant, janet she's gonna see what she can do -- 
speaker2: thank you, chad, and good luck to you and your mother --
speaker1: thank you. thank you very much.
speaker3: hello?
speaker1: ok. janet you have phil parma --
speaker3: hello, phil.
speaker2: hi, hi, thank you for taking my call --

speaker1: i have about two months, i have no time. it's in my bones and i don't have a chance. and i'm i had a stroke last week -- 
speaker2: ...jimmy...
speaker3: ten seconds.

speaker1: you're a friend of the family i presume? 
speaker2: what? what does that mean?
speaker1: nothing special, just a spoke in the wheel.
speaker2: you talk in rhymes and riddles and ra...rub-adub --- but that doesn't mean anything to me, see....see...see i used to be smart....i'm quiz kid donnie smith.
speaker1: might of been before my time.
speaker3: i remember you. i remember. in the 60's right?
speaker2: i'm quiz kid donnie smith.
speaker1: ...like you said...
speaker3: smart kid! yeah, he-he. you got hit by lightning that one time, right?
speaker2: so what?
speaker3: i heard about that.
speaker4: did it hurt?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: but you're alright now, so what's the what?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: i used to be smart but now i'm just stupid.
speaker1: brad, dear?
speaker1: who was it that said: "a man of genius has seldom been ruined but by himself."
speaker2: -- samuel johnson.
speaker5: i don't know.
speaker1: it was the lovely samuel johnson who also spoke of a fella "who was not only dull but a cause of dullness in others."
speaker2: "the" cause of dullness in others --
speaker1: picky, picky.
speaker2: -- and lemme tell you this: samuel johnson never had his life on and taken from him and his money stolen -- who took his life and his money? his parents? his mommy and daddy? make him live this life like this -- "a man of genius" gets on as a child and that scars and it hurts and have you ever been hit by lighting? it hurts and it doesn't happen to everyone, it's an electrical charge that finds it's way across the universe and lands in your body and your head -- and as for "ruined but by himself," not if his parents take his friggin' life and
speaker3: you're parents took your money you won on that game show?
speaker2: yes they did. what does that mean, "spoke in the wheel?"
speaker1: things go round 'n round, don't they?
speaker2: yes they do, they do, but i'll make my dreams come true, you see? i will.
speaker1: this sounds sad as a weeping willow.
speaker2: i used to be smart but now i'm just stupid.
speaker1: shall we drink to that?
speaker2: "if a brick weighs one pound plus one
speaker1: "why don't you shut the up," is me to you, chapter right here, verse right now.

speaker1: a little -- 
speaker2: -- yeah....
speaker3: -- kids at school must be real excited for you, eh?
speaker2: oh, yeah...yeah...
speaker1: sure.
speaker3: stanley the man! how are you?
speaker4: i'm fine. yes.
speaker3: you're fast becoming a celebrity. how are you handling it all?
speaker4: ohh, it's all fine. it's all. nice. i'd just like to keep going....keep getting on....

speaker1: i was saying...thinking maybe i'd get my own quiz show someday, jimmy. just like you! 
speaker2: ok, ok, here we go: steeper questions,

speaker1: -- that's right, that's right, and what i'm 
speaker1: i just realized this is for television, isn't it? i can't swear up and down like i just did.
speaker2: it's fine. i can bleep it out.
speaker1: i warned you -- i get on a roll...
speaker2: -- let's talk more about your background --
speaker1: muffy -- coffee?
speaker2: i'm confused about your past is the thing.
speaker1: is that still lingering?
speaker2: -- just to clarify --
speaker1: so boring, so useless --
speaker2: i would just want to clear some things up:
speaker1: thank you, muffy. funny thing is: this is an important element of, "seduce and destory:" "facing the past is an important way in not making progress," that's something i tell my men over and over --
speaker2: this isn't meant --
speaker1: -- and i try and teach the students to ask: what is it in aid of?
speaker2: are you asking me that?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well, just trying to figure out who you are, and how you might have become --
speaker1: in aid of what?
speaker2: i'm saying, frank, in trying to figure out who you are --
speaker1: -- there's a lot more important things i'd like to put myself
speaker1: not really.
speaker2: it's not like i'm trying to attack you --
speaker1: this is how you wanna spend the time, then go, go, go -- you're gonna be surprised at what a waste it is -- "the most useless thing in the world
speaker2: we talked earlier about your mother.
speaker1: i'm not sure i hear a question in there?
speaker2: do you remember a miss simms?

speaker1: she does. from when you were a boy. 
speaker2: mm. hm.
speaker1: she lived in tarzana.
speaker2: an old stomping ground --is this the "attack" portion of the interview, i figured this was coming sooner
speaker1: no, this is about getting something right and claryfying one of your answers to an earlier question --
speaker2: go ahead and waste your time.
speaker1: i was told that your mother died. that your mother died when you were young --
speaker2: and that's what you've heard?
speaker1: i talked to miss simms. miss simms was your caretaker and neighbor after your mother died in 1980.
speaker1: in my research i have you listed as
speaker3: frank lights his cigarette. camera zooms into cu.
speaker2: are you asking me a question?
speaker4: well i guess the question is this: do you remember miss simms?

speaker1: well, jimmy, i know this, i have perfect pitch, you see -- and that would be a-d-e. and that would represent lemonade. 
speaker2: for 250. next notes, please: oc musical notes: e-g-g. todd got it. that's e-g-g which would be ~egg."
speaker2: for 500 and the third set of notes: oc musical notes: b-e-e. todd b-e-e -- and don't get stung.

speaker1: no...i just... i'm so up here alan, i don't know...there's so much...so many things -- 
speaker2: are you on drugs right now?
speaker1: if i talk to you...y'know...if i tell you things...then you're a lawyer, right? you can't say things, you can't tell anyone, it's like the privelage, right? attornery-client, you understand?
speaker2: not exactly, linda. i'm not sure where you're going with this --
speaker1: like a shrink, like if i go to see a shrink, i'm protected, i can say
speaker2: linda, you're safe. ok. it's alright.
speaker1: -- i have something to tell you. i have to tell you something. i want to change his will, can i change his will?...i need to ---
speaker2: you can't change his will. only earl can change his will.
speaker1: no, no....no, you see...i never loved him. i never loved him, earl. when i started, when i met him, i met him and i him and i married him because i wanted his money, do you understand? i'm telling you this now...this i've never told anyone...i didn't love him. and now....i know i'm in that will, i know, i was there with him, we were all there together when we made that thing and all the money i'ii get -- i don't want it -- because i love him so much now...i've fallen in love with him now, for real, as he's dying, and i look at him and he's about to go, alan, he's dead...he's moments... i took care of him through this, alan. and what now then?

speaker1: "hello, mary. how are you and the seven kids? as you probably heard by know, we sure gave that pope a run for his money --" the ~adults" buzz. jimmy looks to mim. 
speaker2: well: that would be general robert e. lee. his wife mary park custiss. and he did have seven children and he would be talking about pope, who he defeated at the battle of monasses --

speaker1: well that would be napoleon speaking to josephine. 
speaker2: that's right!

speaker1: what kind of medication are you on right now, linda that's -- 
speaker2: this is not any medication
speaker1: adultery isn't illegal -- it's not something that can be used in a court to discredit the will or -- linda. linda. calm down.
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: you don't have to change the will, if what you want to do is get nothing you can renounce the will when it's time.
speaker2: where will the money go?
speaker1: well. considering that there's no one else mentioned in the will...we'd have to go to the laws of intestacy,
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: the money would go to frank. the court
speaker2: -- that can't happen. earl doesn't want him to have the money, the things.
speaker1: -- unless frank is specifically ommitted as a beneficiary that's what will happen.
speaker2: this is so over-the-top and fucked-up i can hardly stand it.
speaker1: linda, you just have to take a moment and breath and one thing at a time --
speaker2: shut the up.
speaker1: i'm trying to help, linda --
speaker2: shut the up. shut the up.
speaker1: you need to sober up.
speaker2: now you must really shut the up, please. shut the up.
speaker1: linda --
speaker2: i have to go.
speaker1: let me call you a car, linda.
speaker2: shut the up.

speaker1: well, jimmy that sounded to me like brahms, a bit like his hungarian dance number six, i believe. 
speaker2: excellent. next number:
speaker3: ...i don't know the answer...
speaker4: that is not right! that's not right,

speaker1: this is, for not a fresh cup, a great cup of coffee, claudia -- 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: what do you wanna talk about?

speaker1: shut up -- shut up -- cynthia walks over; 
speaker2: what happend, what's going on?

speaker1: don't tell me to go away, stanley. i am the co-ordinator in this show and you will answer the questions that i ask, you understand? 
speaker2: what's the problem, what's the problem here?
speaker3: i'm fine. nothing.
speaker2: why didn't you answer those questions?
speaker3: i didn't know the answer --
speaker2: you know the answer to every question and i knew the answer to those questions and i'm not half as smart as you are so what happened?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker4: he his pants.
speaker2: did you -- did you --
speaker3: i didn't i'm fine, i'm fine.
speaker2: stand up.
speaker3: i said i'm fine.
speaker2: ...oh what the fuck...?
speaker3: i'm fine. i'm fine, i just wanna keep playing --
speaker2: why did you do this?
speaker5: jimmy is sweating.
speaker6: i had a stroke, i think i had a stroke.
speaker7: call 911. call 911 right now.
speaker6: no, no, no. i'm fine. it's small, i wanna keep going --
speaker7: no, no, c'mon jimmy we need to call this quits and you need to see a doctor.
speaker6: i'm telling you right now, i'm fine. i lost my balance and i couldn't see a moment, but i'm ok.
speaker7: call 911, mary, do it right now.
speaker6: you don't do that. you don't do it, you i'll kill you with my barehands. go. get the -- we're going back and we finish the show --
speaker7: jimmy you look like you're about to die right here --
speaker6: shut it. shut yer mouth.
speaker2: are we gonna keep going with this game?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: you're two days from the record, get through this and i'ii do anything for you, you just gotta get through this --
speaker3: alright.
speaker2: hang in there, ok. i love you. rick walks away with cynthia...
speaker8: what are we doing?
speaker7: this is stupidity, we'll get back on and go through it --

speaker1: i think maybe we should rap this up, chief -- 
speaker2: i'm not trying to attack you, frank.

speaker1: what's that stand for? 
speaker2: tempural-something-mandibular, thing with something, i dunno. but it affects my ear, i don't even know if i have tmj exactly but just very tight, like - it's like a muscle spasm and it's just gets so clenched --
speaker1: this is my job.
speaker2: we were just gettin' warmed up.
speaker1: well if you listen' to that music too loud again and that fella returns maybe we'll share another cup of coffee --
speaker2: if you're not here for a 422 --
speaker1: no. no. don't joke about that. that's not funny, claudia. please, now.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: ok, then. keep your chin up and your music down, alright?
speaker2: yes. i will. it was nice to meet you officer jim.
speaker1: just jim.
speaker2: yeah, good, ok.
speaker1: bye, bye, claudia.
speaker2: good bye.

speaker1: i'm sorry, claudia. 
speaker2: what is it? did you forget something?
speaker1: no, no. i was wondering...man oh man. i think i feel like a bit of a scum-bucket doing this, considering that i came here as an officer of the law and the situation and all this but i think i'd be a fool if i didn't do something i really want to do which is to ask you on a date.
speaker2: you wanna go on a date with me?
speaker1: please, yes.
speaker2: well...is that illegal?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: then...i'd like to go...what do you want to do?
speaker1: i don't know. i haven't thought about it -- you know what -- that's not true -- i have thought about it. i've thought about going on a date with you since you opened the door.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i thought you were flirting with me a little.
speaker2: do you wanna go tonight? i mean, are you working?
speaker1: no, i'm off tonight. i would lov-like, to go tonight, i can pick you up, i can pick you up here at about what time? what time?
speaker2: eight o'clock?
speaker1: what about ten o'clock, is that too late? i don't get off and then --
speaker2: oh sure yes, that's fine, late dinners are good. should i get dressed up or -- ?
speaker1: no, no, just casual maybe, maybe i thought -- there's a spot i like to go, it's real nice that overlooks a golf course and the course is lit up at night --
speaker2: billingsley's?
speaker1: yeah, you know it? you know billingsley's?
speaker2: it's my favorite place --
speaker1: oh, see? this is great. ten o'clock.
speaker2: great, bye.
speaker1: bye.

speaker1: -- i know -- 
speaker2: -- and you need to do that.
speaker1: i will.
speaker2: no, you need to do it. his cel phone rings and he excuses himself. doc thisz doc.

speaker1: what's up? 
speaker2: i have to talk to frank, is he nearby?
speaker1: he's doing the interview with the lady --
speaker2: i need you to interupt him, i need
speaker1: what happend?
speaker2: doc, go get frank and put him on the phone.

speaker1: what am i doing? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i'm quietly judging you.

speaker1: what a day and what a round, going back and in for me and the final speed round to determine who's who today -- scores on the board's kids: 9225. adults: 11,000. and this game is not out of reach for the kids...can they 
speaker2: it's gonna be me, jimmy.
speaker3: c'mon down here, mim.
speaker4: camera pushes in on him and lands in cu.

speaker1: i don't wanna go, i can't do it this time. 
speaker2: -- the are you talking about?
speaker3: you have to go, stanley. you're the smartest.
speaker1: i don't wanna do it. why can't one of you do it --
speaker2: stanley if you don't stand up and go over there i'm gonna beat your --
speaker1: i'm sick of being the one, the one who always has to do everything, i don't want to be the one always --

speaker1: i confuse melancholy and depression sometimes.... 
speaker2: mmm.hmm.
speaker1: you see?
speaker2: why don't you run along now friend, your dessert is getting cold.
speaker1: i'm sick.
speaker2: stay that way.
speaker1: i'm sick and i'm in love.
speaker2: you seem the sort of person who confuses the two.
speaker1: that's right. that's the first time you're right. i confuse the two
speaker3: donnie looks to brad, then:

speaker1: i love you. i love you and i'm sick. 
speaker2: brad, honey, you have a special secret crush over here i think, don't take him too lovely -- he might get hurt --
speaker1: you mind your own bussines.
speaker2: gently, son --
speaker1: brad, i know you don't love me now --
speaker2: "it's a dangerous thing to confuse chidlren with angels..."
speaker1: -- and you wanna know the common element for the entire group, like he asks...i'll tell you the answer: i'll tell you, 'cause i had that question. i had that same question....carbon. in pencil led, it's in the form of graphite and in coal, it's all mixed up with other impurities and in the diamond it's in hard form. "well...all we were asking was the common element, donnie...but thank you for all that unnecessary knowledge...ahhh, kids! full of useless thoughts, eh?" thank you. thank you. and the book says: "we may be through with the past but the past is not through with us." and no it's not dangerous to do that.

speaker1: stanley, passing to one of the other kids -- 
speaker2: we want stanley to go, jimmy.
speaker3: i don't want to go.

speaker1: fine. phil, you still there? 
speaker2: yeah i'm here.
speaker1: i wanna ask you one question, phil: have you talked to anyone else about this? about frank and earl?
speaker2: no i haven't.
speaker1: alright, good, i'd like to keep it that way -- all the security and what not, you understand? this could be a delicate situation for frank and the family --
speaker3: what happend?
speaker1: doc, just - don't, how close are you?
speaker3: i'm about to get off the elevator --
speaker1: phil, hang in just one more minute ok? i'm gonna put you on hold -- doc you still there?
speaker3: yeah, i'm here, i'm off the elevator, walking down the hall, now --

speaker1: we want stanley to play, jimmy and we're not sure why he won't -- 
speaker2: i don't want to play. i always play, i always answer the questions and i don't wanna do it anymore --
speaker3: what the is he doing, what's wrong with him?
speaker4: i have no idea.

speaker1: so you sat it out, that's what you did? 
speaker2: you requested my time and i gave it
speaker1: you're hurting a lot of people, frank --
speaker2: -- you.

speaker1: this isn't funny. this isn't "cute." jimmy -- jimmy -- we're not a toy -- we're not dolls, here. this isn't funny you see, the way we're looked at if you think that we're cute because what? what? i'm made to feel like a freak if i answer questions and i'm smart or i have to go to the bathroom. what is that? and what is that, jimmy, i'm asking? i'm asking what is that, jimmy? i'm asking you that -- ? 
speaker2: well i'm not sure, stanley.

speaker1: is he at the house? 
speaker2: i asked him the exact adress and he gave it -- i know that this must be hard, you having to hear this --
speaker1: don't give me things, janet just tell me the thing, the information --
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: i'm sorry, stanley. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i didn't mean to do this.

speaker1: it's okay, stanley. it's alright. 
speaker2: take us off the air, go to the the credits --

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i've got frank...frank earl's son. he's...he asked me to get him and i did --
speaker1: hang up the phone.
speaker2: no, linda, you don't understan --

speaker1: let's go, c'mon, get up -- 
speaker2: did we win or lose, i mean --?
speaker1: i don't know, richard, they need to talk it over --
speaker3: you lost, kid. they go to the score at the time it was called --
speaker4: that's not an official rule.
speaker3: that's the way it goes.
speaker2: who says that, what rule book,
speaker5: let's all just settle down --
speaker1: richard, shut it and keep it down.
speaker2: if he hadn't his pants, we woulda won. we had this game.
speaker3: you didn't have kid.

speaker1: ....it's alright.... 
speaker2: tell him i'm sorry, ok, yes, you do that, now, i'm sorry, tell him, for all the things i've done...i up and i'm sorry.... and i'm gonna turn away and walk now and not look at him not see my man, my earl, i'll leave now...and tell him it's ok and i'm ok. the whole thing was ok with me -- and i know. she turns quick and walks out of the house.

speaker1: "how to fake like you are nice and caring." this is...obviously...quite an important section...i mean, let's face it...face the facts...men are right? i mean, that is what they all say. we've all done bad things...bad things that no woman has ever done...that's what they say. we as men are taught to apologize: "i've done wrong." "i'm sorry." "my needs as a man made me..." something, something...bullshit....well what i would like to say.... 
speaker1: if you feel, made to feel like you need them, like -- like you can't live if you're without them or you need, what? they're pussy? they're love? that. self sufficient, gents. that's the truth. what you are -- we are -- you need them for what? to make you a piece of snot rag? a puppett? huh? hear them and moan? and moan -- and we're taught one thing -- go the other way -- there is no excuse i will give you, i'm not gonna apologize -- i'm not gonna apologize for my need my desire...my, the things that i need as a man to feel comfortable... you understand? you understand? you need to say something, "my mommy hit me or daddy hit me or didn't let me play soccer, so now i make mistakes, cause a that -- something, so now i and on it and do this." i'm sorry. ok. yeah. no. go. alright. go make a new mistake. maybe not, i dunno...fuck.... frank drops the microphone and walks off stage...audience rumbles with confusion, etc. doc and captain muffy frantic, etc. frank

speaker1: i'm onna try and talk...i'm atryan say some thing some thing... 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: ...lily...?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: she's my love...my life...love of it... in school when you're 12 years old. in school, in six grade....and i saw her and i didn't go to that school...but we met. and my friend knew her...i would say, "what's that girl?" "how's that lily?" "oh, she's a bad girl...she sleeps with guys..." my friend would say this....but
speaker2: graduation?
speaker1: no, no, the grade...the grade that you're in?
speaker2: twelve.
speaker1: yeah...so i go to her school for that for grade twelve...and we meet...she was fuckin...like a doll...porcelain doll...and the hips...child bearing hips...y'know that? so beautiful. but i didn't have with anyone, you know? i was not...i couldn't do anything...always scared, y'know... she was...she had some boyfriends...they liked her y'know...but i didn't like that. i couldn't get over that i wasn't a man, but she was a woman. y'see? y'see i didn't make her feel ok about that....i would say, "how many men you been with?" she told me, i couldn't take it...take that i wasn't a man....because if i hadn't had with women...like as many women as she had men...then i was weak...a boy.... but i loved her...you understand? ....well, of course, i wanted to have with her...and i did and we were together....we met...age twelve, but then again...age seventeen...something, somethin... i didn't let her forget that i thought she was a bad...a slut.....a i would call her and hit her....i hit her for what she did...but we married...lily and me and we married...but i cheated on her...over and over and over again...because i wanted to be a man and i couldn't let her be a woman...a smart, free person who was something...my mind then, so stupid, so fuckin....jesus christ, what would i think...did i think....? ...for what i've done...she's my wife for thirty eight years...i went behind her... over and over...fucking i am that i would go out and and come home and get in her bed and say "i love you..." this'z jack's mother. his mother lily...these two that i had and i lost .... and this is the regret that you make...the regret you make is the something that you take...blah...blah...blah... something, something..... gimme a cigarettee? through the following phil tries to give earl a cigarette,
speaker1: she had cancer...from her...in her stomach and i didn't go anywhere with her...and i didn't do a thing... for her and to help her....shit...this bitch...the beautiful, beautiful with perfect skin and child bearing hips and so soft...her namewaslilysee? he liked her though he did, his mom, frank/jack...he took care of her and she died. she didn't stick with him and he thinks and he hates me, ok...see...i'm...that's then what you get? ....are you still walkin' in that car...?
speaker2: what? say it again...walking in the car?
speaker1: ....getthat on the tv....there...
speaker1: ...mistakes like this are not ok...
speaker2: i got it.

speaker1: ...are you phil...? 
speaker2: yeah. i was trying to get in touch with you. we got dissconnected.
speaker1: i got your message. that you were trying to get me -- right?
speaker2: yes. i didn't know how to find you. earl asked me, so i looked through the adress books and there was no number, nothing --
speaker1: is linda here?
speaker2: she's not here, she went out. i'm sorry. this is all just so, i don't know what, what to do -- your dad asked me to try and track you down. to get you and i did, i called the number -- do you wanna come in?
speaker1: yeah let's...maybe just stand.
speaker2: these dogs'll calm down -- you just have to come in --
speaker2: he's in here.
speaker1: let's just wait one minute and stay here, okay?
speaker2: ok.
speaker1: how long have you taken care of him?
speaker2: for six months. i'm the day nurse...
speaker1: uh-huh. what's going on?
speaker2: he's...i'm sorry...so sorry...i've seen this before, you know and you don't.... he's going very fast....frank...um....
speaker1: is he in pain?
speaker2: i just...he was...but i gave him, i just had to give him a small dose of liquid morphine. he hasn't been able to swallow the morphine pills so we now, i just had to go to the liquid morphine...
speaker1: ...uh-huh...
speaker1: how long...you think?
speaker2: um...soon tonight...i think, yes? tommorrow...i mean...very soon...very...
speaker1: when did he go off chemo?
speaker2: about three weeks ago.
speaker1: .....have you ever seen this..i mean, never mind, you said --
speaker2: i work as a nurse, for a proffesion --
speaker1: uh. huh.
speaker2: i'm really sorry.
speaker1: he's in here --?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: no, let's just wait one minute, let's just stand here one minute or so -- beat. they stand. hold.
speaker2: i've heard your tapes on the phone.
speaker1: oh yeah.
speaker2: when they put me on hold, to talk to you...they play the tapes. i mean: i'd seen the commercials and heard about you, but i'd never heard the tapes ....
speaker1: uh. huh.
speaker2: it's interesting.
speaker1: mmm.

speaker1: lady. lady. hey wake up. lady? 
speaker1: hello? hello? i have an emergency situation -- this lady -- this lady seems like she's dead -- hello? she's in the parking lot --

speaker1: it'll take the pain away. 
speaker2: it's not really pain.
speaker2: i gotta ask you for a cigarette, 'cause i don't wanna spend six hours tryin' to get it to my mouth --
speaker2: how do we do this, then?
speaker1: we just do it...we do it and we figure it out and we do as we do, i guess...
speaker2: do you love me, rose?
speaker1: you're my handsome man.
speaker2: i'm a bad person.
speaker1: no. no.
speaker2: no, i mean: i'm telling you this, now. you see? you see i want to make everything clear and clean...and apologize for me....for all the stupid things i've done....that will eat me up....
speaker1: you feel like you want to be forgiven for your sins? honey, you're not on your death bed, yet....this kinda talk's gonna get you in trouble --
speaker2: --- don't. don't. please. just... listen to me...honey.... ...i've done...i've cheated on you.
speaker2: i've cheated on you and it kills me and the guilt of what i've done...i don't want you to think...maybe you knew, i think that maybe you've known... so i hope that i'm not saying this for me...for me to make myself feel better about what i've done...but for making you not feel like you're sitting there like a jerk...you've been the good one... you understand...i'm so sorry for all i've done wrong...and this is pathetic...what? "dying man, confess the sins" something? is it selfish for me to say this? to say what i've done...i feel better already. i do...do you hate me?
speaker1: ...no...i don't hate you. do you want talk...do you really want to talk to me and say things and get things figured out, jimmy?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: the question isn't wether or not you cheated on me, the question is how many times have you cheated on me?
speaker2: will that help?
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: well, that's a natural thing, two people go out on a date, something. they want to impress people, the other person...or they're scared maybe what they say will make the other person not like them -- 
speaker2: so you've done it --
speaker1: well i don't go out very much.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i've never found someone really that i think i would like to go out with.
speaker2: and i bet you say that to all the girls --
speaker1: no, no.
speaker2: you wanna make a deal with me?
speaker1: ok.
speaker2: what i just said...y'know, people afraid to say things....no guts to say the things that they...that are real or something...
speaker1: ...yeah...
speaker2: to not do that. to not do that that we've maybe done -- before --
speaker1: let's make a deal.
speaker2: ok. i'll tell you everything and you tell me everything and maybe we can get through all the and and lies that kill other people....
speaker1: wow....huh..."...piss and shit..."
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you really use strong language.
speaker2: i'm sorry --
speaker1: -- no, no, it's fine. fine.
speaker2: i didn't mean...it's seems vulgar or something, i know --
speaker1: it's fine.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: ...nothing. i'm sorry...
speaker2: no, i'm sorry. i'm saying i'm sorry.
speaker1: -- well i'm a real...y'know, straight when it comes to that...curse words i just don't use much --
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: i'm gonna run to the bathroom for a minute...maybe just -- 
speaker2: ok.
speaker1: ok.

speaker1: ...ok... 
speaker2: can you stand...back...maybe, i mean... just a little bit...in the room is ok, but back from us a little...
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: ...dad...dad...hey...earl?
speaker2: ...hey...dad...dad can you wake up a minute dad?
speaker2: he's not waking up.

speaker1: i don't hate you, jimmy. but i have a couple questions that i wanna ask.... 
speaker2: i'll answer anything.
speaker1: was there anyone that i know?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: rose, i don't --
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: paula. ellen.
speaker2: that's it.
speaker1: no one else that i know?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: how long with ellen?
speaker2: just once.
speaker1: how long with paula?
speaker2: two years...three years...
speaker1: what about now?
speaker2: it's over. i talked to her this morning.
speaker1: is it over 'cause you're sick?
speaker2: it's over becuase...for all the the right reasons i hope, what i said.
speaker1: do you have any children with anyone?
speaker2: what? no, rose, no --
speaker1: well maybe.
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: do you feel better now that you've said this?
speaker2: i don't know....
speaker1: i'm not mad. i am, but i'm not. y'know?
speaker2: i love you so much.
speaker1: i'm not through asking my questions.
speaker1: why doesn't claudia talk to you, jimmy?
speaker2: why, well i think we've, we both don't know...what do you mean?
speaker1: i think that you know.
speaker2: maybe...i don't...

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: ..sorry...
speaker1: it's ok.

speaker1: well. 
speaker2: that felt good to do...to do what i wanted to do.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: can i tell you something?
speaker1: yeah, of course.
speaker2: i'm really nervous that you're gonna hate me soon. that you're gonna find stuff out about me and you're gonna hate me --
speaker1: -- no, like what, what do you mean?
speaker2: you're a police officer. you have so much, so many good things and you seem so together...so all straight and put together without problems.
speaker1: i lost my gun.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i lost my gun after i left you today and i'm the laughing stock of a lot of people. i wanted to tell you that. i wanted you to know...and it's on my mind and it makes me look like a fool and i feel like a fool and you asked that we should say things, that we should say what we're thinknig and not lie about things and i'll tell you that, this: that i lost my gun and i'm not a good cop...and i'm looked down at...and i know that....and i'm scared that once you find that out you might not like me.
speaker2: oh my jim. jim, that was so --
speaker1: i'm sorry --
speaker2: that was so great what you just said.
speaker1: i haven't been on a date since i was married and that was three years ago....and claudia...whatever you wanna tell me, whatever you think might scare me, won't...and i will listen...i will be a good listener to you if that's what you want...and you know, you know...i won't judge you.... i can do that sometimes, i know, but i won't...i can...listen to you and you shouldn't be scared of scaring me off or anything that you might think i'll think or on and on and just say it and i'll listen to you....
speaker2: you don't how stupid i am.
speaker1: it's ok.
speaker2: you don't know how crazy i am.
speaker1: it's ok.
speaker2: i've got troubles.
speaker1: i'll take everything at face value.
speaker2: ohhhh i started this, didn't i, didn't i, didn't i,
speaker1: say what you want and you'll see --
speaker2: wanna kiss me, jim?
speaker1: yes i do.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: ..sorry...
speaker1: it's ok.

speaker1: do you know the answer to this? 
speaker2: i'm asking you. i'm asking you if you know why clauida will not speak to you....please, jimmy....tell me.
speaker1: i think that she thinks i may have molested her.
speaker1: she thinks terrible things that somehow got in her head...that i might have done something. she said that to me last time...when it was...ten years ago she walked out the door, "you touched me wrong..." "i know that." some crazy thought in her, in her head...
speaker2: did you ever touch her?
speaker1: ...no....
speaker2: jimmy, did you touch her?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: ...jimmy...
speaker1: i really don't know.
speaker2: but you can't say....

speaker1: ...i don't know... 
speaker1: what...? ...no...no, please...
speaker2: you deserve to die alone for what you've done.
speaker1: i don't know what i've done.
speaker2: yes you do.
speaker1: stay here, please don't leave me, please, please, if i said i knew would you stay?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i don't know what i've done.
speaker2: you should know better.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: just say no.
speaker1: i won't say, no, wait, claudia --
speaker2: let me go, leave me, let me go, it's ok, please.
speaker1: please, what is it, please --
speaker2: just let me walk out, ok?

speaker1: i'm here. i'm here now. what do you want? do you want anything? 
speaker2: i don't think, he can't...
speaker1: ...just wait...dad...you want something...can you say...
speaker3: .....fuck...fuck...fuck...
speaker3: ...thismssm....
speaker1: oh, dad. it's ok. ok. it's ok...i'm here with you now, please.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: you know what it's like to come home scared, scared that maybe if you don't have the money you're supposed to go out each day and get that you're gonna get beaten....by a belt...he hits me with a belt, stanley.... i'm supposed to sell those candy bars, and if i don't, i come home without the money....
speaker1: ....why does he do it...?
speaker2: cause he hates me....he hates me so much.
speaker1: it's not right.
speaker2: i hate it.
speaker2: i'm sorry to put all this on you, stanley --
speaker1: i have money.
speaker2: ...what...?
speaker1: i have money to give you.
speaker2: no. no. i have to do this on my own.
speaker1: i can take you to get money. i don't need it...i don't

speaker1: it's frogs. it's raining frogs. 
speaker2: ...fuck you mean, it's raining frogs?
speaker1: it's raining frogs from the sky.
speaker2: ....what the what the fuck....
speaker1: this happens....this is something that happens.
speaker2: what the is goin' on, what the
speaker3: cu - stanley. hold on his face extremely tight.

speaker1: no, son...be quiet...be quiet now... 
speaker2: c'mon, dad. we gotta just get his
speaker1: we're not gonna do that now. we're not gonna do that now and that's over.

speaker1: please, boy, put it down and it's ok. 
speaker1: it's ok --
speaker2: we gotta get his money so we can get outta here -- we gotta --
speaker1: that idea is over now. we're not gonna do that now.

speaker1: i - just - thought - that - i - didn't want - i - didn't - i - didn't - 
speaker2: it's ok, boy.

speaker1: you have to be nicer to me, dad. 
speaker2: go to bed.
speaker1: i think that you have to be nicer to me.
speaker2: go to bed.

speaker1: ....ohh-thur-i-thur-thill.... 
speaker2: you guys make alotta money, huh?

