speaker1: thursday started out with a bang: a gunshot to the chest on a drug deal gone bad. heat, humidity, moonlight-- all the elements in place for a long weekend. i was good at my job: there were periods when my hands moved with a speed and skill beyond me and my mind worked with a cool authority i had never known. but in the last year i had started to lose that control. things had turned bad. i hadn't saved anyone for months. i just needed a few slow nights, a week without tragedy followed by a couple of days off. 
speaker2: we're there.
speaker3: which apartment? which apartment?
speaker1: move back. where's the stairs? 5a.
speaker3: oh it's mr. burke.

speaker1: we were just watching tv and dad yelled out and started punching his chest, next thing he locked himself in the bathroom. i said we were gonna call you guys and he said not to. he was crying, i never heard him crying before, then he sorta stopped. we pulled him out and put him on the bed. frank and larry moving the body to the floor: 
speaker2: how long ago did he stop breathing?
speaker1: maybe ten minutes. woman on the phone tried to tell us how to do cpr.
speaker2: we'll do all we can.
speaker2: clear! clear!
speaker3: no more, please don't!
speaker2: in the last year i had come to believe in such things as spirits leaving the body and not wanting to be put back, spirits angry at the awkward places death had left them. i understood how crazy it was to think this way, but i was convinced if i turned around, i'd see old man burke standing at the window, watching, waiting for us to finish.
speaker2: do you have any music?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: music. i think it helps if you play something he liked.
speaker3: john, play the sinatra.
speaker3: play the sinatra.
speaker4: it's ok, frank. we can call it. eighty- three.
speaker2: no we can't. he's got a pulse.
speaker4: no
speaker3: is he going to be alright?
speaker2: his heart's beating.
speaker2: have 'em bring up a stretcher.

speaker1: hey partner. your man does not look well. they're not gonna appreciate you inside. 
speaker2: griss, let us in.
speaker1: things are backing up.
speaker1: you can't go in there, folks.
speaker3: just keep moving. don't even slow down.
speaker3: sir, you say you've been snorting cocaine for three days and now you feel your heart is beating too fast and you would like us to help you. to tell the truth, i don't see why i should. if i'm mistaken, correct me. did we sell you the cocaine? did we push it up your nose?
speaker4: for sake, give me some water.
speaker5: shut up! civilians.
speaker4: give me some water!
speaker6: don't take another step. we're on diversion. can't accept any more patients. your dispatcher should have told you.
speaker2: we got him at eighteen and second. you're closest.
speaker6: where will i put him, frank? look. tell me.
speaker2: he wanted to come here. said the nurses at misery were the best.
speaker4: excuse me. you are a very kind man. i can see that. a man like you could not refuse a poor sick dying helpless man a small cup of water.
speaker2: i can't. i have to stay with my patient.
speaker5: shut the up! if it wasn't for these dun feet i'd get up and kick your ass!
speaker7: godammit, guys, what are you doing to me? we're all backed up in here. christ, would you look at him? he's gonna need the works. what's wrong with him?
speaker8: you should know. you pronounced him.
speaker7: you told me he was dead. flatline.
speaker2: he got better.
speaker7: i hate pronouncing people dead over the phone. better, huh? they're fixed and dilated. he's plant food.
speaker6: we stole a stretcher from x-ray. no pad on it, but i don't think he'll mind. put him in three, next to the overdose.
speaker7: he's our lowest priority now. he shouldn't even be here. all this technology. what a waste.
speaker1: please folks, step back. don't make me take off my sunglasses.
speaker7: first-time heart attack, age 45. should have gone to the ccu ten hours ago. there's three bodies up there mike the one you just brought in. over there, two aids patients, one in twelve filling up with liquid. i'm gonna hafta intubate because the kid's mother won't sign the do not resuscitate. mercy killing doesn't translate well in spanish. it's a sin to tube this kid. three more ods from some new killer junk. they call it red death.
speaker4: water, water, water, doctor man, water.
speaker7: a mix of heroin and i don't know what else, some kind of amino acid maybe. stuff so strong they're drinking it with grain alcohol. you have to use ten times the usual amount of narcan and watch out when they wake up, liable to go nuts on you.
speaker2: he one of them?
speaker7: no, that's noel. used to be a regular off and on, hasn't been in in a while. he seized and almost coded--i gave him a hypertonic solution. he drank so much the kidneys were taking out salt. one for the textbooks.
speaker4: oh doctor, you are the greatest. you must help me.
speaker5: for sake, give him a drink of water.
speaker7: i am helping you, noel. you could die if you drink more water.
speaker7: what is it?
speaker7: crupp, start cpr. milagros, get me an epi. odette wake up dr. stark. tell him i need a blood gas, stat.
speaker4: bless you sir, bless you.
speaker5: shut up.
speaker3: ... so you get drunk every day and you fall down. tell me why we should help you when you're going to get drunk tomorrow and fall down again?
speaker2: he's very very sick.
speaker9: i know him. that's noel.
speaker2: we'd better go outside. quickly. frank and mary step out into the humid night.

speaker1: is there any chance? 
speaker1: noel, noel, it's me, mary. from 17th street.
speaker2: mary, mary, mary. i'm so thirsty. they won't give me anything to drink. please, mary.
speaker1: i'll get you some.
speaker3: i wouldn't do that. the doctor seems to think he's suffering from some rare disorder.
speaker1: it's not so rare. he grew up on our street. he's had a rough life and he's a little crazy from it, but that's no excuse for not giving someone a lousy cup of water.
speaker1: my father's dying, noel.
speaker2: oh mary, mary, mary.

speaker1: the chinese close in five minutes. beef lo mein. it's been on my mind since i woke. whatjathink? 
speaker2: i think the moment that food hits your mouth we'll get a job.
speaker1: turn here. you missed it. the is on 3rd.
speaker3: hey ambulance man. what you looking at?
speaker4: pretty soon you'll be coming for me.
speaker1: some partner you are frank. i coulda walked there faster. i'm starving and you stop to talk to hookers. you're making me nuts. is that what you're trying to do, drag me down with you to nutsville?
speaker1: oh no!--i just remembered.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm so stupid. i had beef lo mein last night. i can't eat the same thing two nights in a row. it's almost two o'clock, what the am i gonna do? what you getting?
speaker2: i'm not hungry.
speaker1: oh yeah, you don't eat food.
speaker2: i eat. i just haven't had coffee yet.
speaker1: coffee and whiskey, lucky you ain't dead with that diet. wait, i've got it. half fried chicken with fries. let's go, hurry up. come on.
speaker2: rose was getting closer. ever since the call a month before, when i'd lost her, she seemed like all the girls in the neighborhood. one of the first things you learn is to avoid bad memories. i used to be an expert, but lately i'd found some holes. anything could trigger it. the last month belonged to rose, but there were a hundred more ready to come out.

speaker1: these spirits were part of the job. it was impossible to pass a building that didn't bold the spirit of something: the eyes of a corpse, the screams of a loved one. all bodies leave their mark. you cannot be near the new dead without feeling it. 
speaker1: i could handle that. what haunted me now was more savage: spirits born half-finished, homicides, suicides, overdoses, innocent or not, accusing me of being there, witnessing a humiliation which they could never forgive.
speaker2: turn it off.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you know what. the radio.
speaker3: ladder four, respond to a 10-22 four flight residential, 317 east 32nd.
speaker2: let's do it. it might be a good one.
speaker1: you wanted it turned off. there's no such thing as a good fire. people get burned up. they can't breathe.
speaker2: that's what we're here for. come on, frank.
speaker1: don't push it, larry.
speaker2: you're burned out.
speaker4: one-three zebra. zebra three, i need you.
speaker2: you see, he's giving it to us anyway.
speaker4: zebra, are you there? i'm holding an unconscious at first and st. marks.
speaker2: no! it's three o'clock. that can only mean one thing.
speaker1: mr. oh.
speaker2: it's mr. oh. i'm not answering it.
speaker4: answer the radio zebra. you know it's that time.
speaker2: four times this week i've had him. aren't there any other units out there? don't answer the radio. they'll give it to someone else.
speaker4: thirteen zebra. one-three zebra. you're going out of service in two seconds.
speaker2: look, frank, when i say don't answer it, that means answer it. you can do that for me at least. three zebra.
speaker4: yes, zebra. you'll be driving to the man who needs no introduction, chronic caller of the year three straight and shooting for number four. the duke of drunk, the king of stink, our most frequent flier, mr. oh.
speaker2: ten-four. don't go. not this time.
speaker1: relax, it's a street job, easy except for the smell. we'll just throw him in back and zip over to mercy--no blood, no dying, that's how i look at it. he's just a drunk.
speaker2: it's not our job to taxi drunks around.
speaker1: they'll just keep calling.
speaker2: someone's gonna die someday causa that bum, going to have a cardiac and the only medics will be taking care of mr. oh.

speaker1: he's bad mister. he ain't eaten nuthin all day, he's seizing and throwing up. 
speaker2: so what's different?
speaker1: he says his feet hurt.
speaker3: well why didn't you say so?
speaker2: he's drunk.
speaker4: he's sick. you gotta help him.
speaker2: he's fine. he can walk to the hospital.
speaker5: walk? you crazy? he's in a wheelchair.
speaker2: don't start that. i've seen him walk. he walks better than me.
speaker6: oh, oh, oh.
speaker2: that's him, mr. oh. get up.
speaker7: good luck! get better!

speaker1: faster! 
speaker2: faster!

speaker1: get that stinky-assed bug-ridden skell out of my face. 
speaker2: i would have to register you to give you something to eat and my conscience just will not allow that. griss, the gentleman wants to leave. he looks pale. you're not eating enough. you need more fiber.
speaker3: he's wasted. that's my diagnosis: shit-faced.
speaker2: he just needs a bath and some food. take him in back and see if you can find a stretcher.
speaker3: she's nuts. that's why he comes here. she encourages him.
speaker4: don't you dare! that's my last stretcher. this is not a homeless shelter. he'll have to wait in the lobby.
speaker1: no way man. not even in the corner. griss cannot abide the funk tonight.

speaker1: it's my first cigarette in over a year. 
speaker2: the first is always the best.
speaker1: it's the waiting that's killing me, not knowing, you know? it's really hard on my mother. the doctor doesn't think my father'll make it. he says he was dead too long, after six minutes the brain starts to die and once that goes, close the door.
speaker2: you never know.
speaker1: i mean if he was dead, i could handle that.
speaker2: at least he's got people around him.
speaker1: i'm not so sure. my father and i haven't spoken in three years. when my brother called to say my father was having a heart attack, that he'd locked himself in the bathroom, all the way going over i was thinking how i was gonna tell him what a he was. then when i got up the stairs and we moved him onto the bed, i thought of all these other things i wanted to say.
speaker2: even when you say the things, there's always more things.
speaker1: right now, i'm more worried about my mother than anything. they won't let her see my father.
speaker2: go home. take her home. get some rest. not going to find anything out now.
speaker1: that's what i told her. if she could just see him a second, then i could take her home.
speaker3: time to switch. i wheel, you heal.

speaker1: 12 david on the corner of thirty- eight and two you'll find a three- car accident, two taxis and a taxi. one-two henry, 427 east two-two, report of a very bad smell. no further information ... 
speaker2: larry, swing over on eighth. we're gonna hafta run one of these calls.
speaker3: relax, will you.
speaker2: the biggest problem with not driving is that whenever there's a patient in back you're also in the back. the doors close, you're trapped. four in the morning is always the worst time for me, just before dawn, just when you've been lulled into thinking it might be safe to close your eyes for one minute. that's when i first found rose ...
speaker2: she was on the sidewalk, not breathing.
speaker2: i'm not feeling very well, larry. i say we go back to the hospital and call it a night.
speaker3: you have no sick time, frank. no time of any kind. everyone knows that.
speaker2: take me back, put me to bed; i surrender. we've done enough damage tonight.
speaker3: you take things too seriously. look at us, we're cruising around, talking, taking some quiet time, getting paid for it. we've got a good job here.
speaker2: yeah, you're right.

speaker1: tell me, you ever think of doing anything else? 
speaker2: sure, i'm taking the captain's exam next year. after the kids are in school, louise can go back to the post office and, i thought, what the hell, i'll start my own medic service. out on the island the volunteers are becoming salaried municipal. it's just a matter of time and who you know. someday it's going to be chief larry calling the shots.
speaker1: i'd always had nightmares, but now the ghosts didn't wait for me to sleep. i drank every day. help others and you help yourself, that was my motto, but i hadn't saved anyone in months. it seemed all my patients were dying. i'd waited, sure the sickness would break, tomorrow night, the next call, the feeling would drop away. more than anything else i wanted to sleep like that, close my eyes and drift away ...
speaker3: zebra. one-three zebra. zebra, answer the radio. come on, i've got one for you. pick up the radio and push the button on the side and speak into the front.
speaker1: zebra.
speaker3: male bleeding, corner of houston and one. no further information.
speaker1: ten-four. frank hangs up, bangs larry's steering wheel:
speaker1: we have a call chief. somebody's bleeding, houston and first.

speaker1: kill me! 
speaker2: noel, don't!
speaker3: he's crazy.
speaker2: you really think so?
speaker1: see, i can't do it. i came out of the desert.
speaker2: you came out of the hospital. you were tied down and hallucinating. you got some bad chemicals in your head, noel. there's some medicine at the hospital that will fix that.
speaker1: no, no medicine!
speaker3: he got you.
speaker4: do it! man wants to die. take him out! i know how to kill that mother. pop, pop.
speaker2: noel, you didn't let me finish. we have rules against killing people on the street. looks bad, but there's a special room at the hospital for terminating. a nice quiet room with a big bed.
speaker1: oh man, do you mean that? thank you man, thank you. how?
speaker2: well, you have your choice: pills, injection, gas.
speaker1: i think pills. yes, pills, definitely.
speaker3: tom walls, that crazy motherfucker.
speaker2: used to be my partner.
speaker5: frank, this the guy you called about? i know him. you give my friend here any trouble and i'll kill you.
speaker1: yes, at the hospital.
speaker5: this looks like a very bad man i took in a couple weeks ago, a man who'd been holding two priests hostage with a screwdriver. i told him if i ever caught him making trouble again i'd kick the murdering life outta him.
speaker2: it's not worth it, tom. he's surrendering.
speaker5: no prisoners. don't worry, frank, just a little psychological first aid. walls hauls back, swings at noel; noel ducks.
speaker5: stay still,
speaker2: don't do it, tom!
speaker3: there's a double shooting three blocks- up. first and third. confirmed.
speaker5: we'll do it.
speaker1: at the hospital. you told me at the hospital.

speaker1: ems. move it! 
speaker2: man just walked up and shot 'em. not a word. man, that was cold.
speaker3: where you hit?
speaker4: outlaw did this. he works for cy.
speaker3: major tom, i'm going to misery. you take yours to bellvue.

speaker1: you're gonna feel a stick in your arm. don't move. 
speaker2: i don't want to die.
speaker3: i want to die. i'm the one.
speaker2: oh i don't want to die.
speaker1: you're not going to die.
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker1: shut up. you're going to die and he's not. got it.
speaker2: hold my hand.
speaker1: i can't. i got to do the other arm.
speaker2: please.

speaker1: it's all right. we're here. 
speaker2: noel, let's go.
speaker1: he's not breathing. call a code.

speaker1: hello again. 
speaker1: you shouldn't smoke.
speaker2: it's okay. they're prescription. works better with a little whiskey.
speaker1: that's my brother's problem. he's passed out inside.
speaker3: that's it! i can't do it anymore!
speaker1: that boy you brought in, he was shot, wasn't he?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: he's dead, huh?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i think this place stinks.
speaker2: our lady of misery.
speaker1: did you see my father?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: it's crazy in there. what's wrong with that doctor? he keeps mumbling, poking himself in the eye when he talks to me.
speaker2: he's working a double shift.
speaker1: thing is, i'm supposed to be the fuckup. the one on the stretcher in there--that's supposed to be me. with my parents crying out here. i got a lot of guilt, you know what i mean?
speaker1: my father's in a coma, now my mother's going crazy. it's like she's in a trance.
speaker2: she should go home.
speaker1: i'd take her, but then who would stay here?
speaker2: here she is.
speaker4: it wasn't him.
speaker1: you saw him?
speaker4: they showed me someone. it wasn't him. it wasn't my husband.
speaker2: mrs. burke, please, they'll take care of him. you should go home now.
speaker4: i should know my own husband. they wouldn't let me see him.
speaker2: larry and i'll drop her back home. help me get her to the ambulance.
speaker4: you want some coffee? i have some apple sauce cake too.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: saving someone's life is like falling in love, the best drug in the world. for days, sometimes weeks afterwards, you walk the street making infinite whatever you see. once, for weeks i couldn't feel the earth. everything i touched became light. horns played in my shoes; flowers fell from my pockets ... 
speaker1: you wonder if you've become immortal, as if you saved your own life as well. what was once criminal and happenstance suddenly makes sense. has passed through you, why deny it, that for a moment there, was you.

speaker1: good morning, captain. 
speaker2: what am i going to to do with this guy? pierce, i was just on the phone with borough command. out of twelve shifts this month, you've been late for nine, sick four and that includes the shift where you came late and went home early.
speaker1: i'm sick. that's what i've been telling you.
speaker2: you're killing me, you know that? you got no sick time according to command. i've been told to terminate.
speaker1: it's okay. i'll just get my things out of the locker.
speaker2: i've never fired anyone in my life.
speaker1: i'm sorry captain. don't take it too hard.
speaker2: nobody tells me to fire anyone. i told them: shove it up the big one. sorry. i said, you want to fire him, come over and do it yourself.
speaker1: you know they won't do it. it's up to you. you gotta be strong.
speaker2: i feel for you, but we got an emergency here. it's a weekend of full moons. everyone's called in sick. larry, veeber, stanley too. we need bodies out there. i had to put marcus on twelve young. you know he's not supposed to work two nights in a row.
speaker1: you swore you'd fire me if i came in late again.
speaker2: i'll fire you tomorrow. hell, better than that, i'll forward you some sick time. a week, two weeks off-- how about that?
speaker1: i don't think a week's gonna do it.
speaker2: i'm sorry, pierce. you're going out with marcus. duty calls. the city needs you.

speaker1: my lord mother man, you look like hell. what were you drinking? 
speaker2: the captain almost fired me tonight. i'm on my way out. anytime now.
speaker1: nobody gets fired. look at me. only thing they might do is transfer you to the bronx. you look like you aged ten years since i rode with you last.
speaker2: the ghosts--
speaker1: you ever notice people who see always, are crazy?
speaker2: i think the worst is over.
speaker1: it can always get worse. you can't change what's out there, only where you're coming from. you got to let the lord take over, in here.
speaker3: twelve young. let's go, twelve young. answer the radio.
speaker2: hey, marcus, it's love. i haven't heard her in months.
speaker1: she only works when i'm on. i make her wait and it drives her crazy.
speaker2: is it true that you and love went on a blind date? she hit you with a bottle?
speaker1: she loves me the way no woman ever has.
speaker3: twelve young, i don't have time for your games. now answer me or do i have to come out there myself?
speaker1: i usually don't do calls before coffee. but i think it might do you some good. twelve young is here and i'm gonna take care of you, baby. don't you worry about a thing, yahear, cause marcus is alive and on arrival.
speaker3: i'm not your baby, young, i'm not your mother either. you're going to a cardiac arrest, avenue c and ninth, northeast corner. it's a club. take the side entrance.
speaker1: ten-four, hon. this is for you.

speaker1: okay, what happened? 
speaker2: he's going to be all right, right?
speaker1: no. he's dead.
speaker2: no way, man.
speaker1: he's dead and there's nothing we can do. come on, frank, that's it.
speaker3: he's not dead. it's a heroin overdose. break out the narcon.
speaker1: he's dead unless you folks want to stop bullshitting me and tell it straight. then, lord willing, we'll try to bring him back.
speaker4: he broke up with his old lady.
speaker5: we didn't break up. we were just seeing other people.
speaker1: i'm still waiting and this young man is still dead.
speaker4: she broke his heart.
speaker2: all right, all right, he's been snorting that red death stuff. been going for four days.
speaker1: what's his name?
speaker2: ib bangin.
speaker1: what'd you mean ib bangin? what kind of name is ib bangin?
speaker5: it's frederick. frederick smith.
speaker1: okay, freddy.
speaker5: it's frederick.
speaker1: okay, ib bangin, we're gonna bring you back. every person here grab the hand of the person next to you.
speaker1: oh lord, here i am again to ask one more chance for a sinner. bring back ib bangin, lord. you have the power, the might, the super light, to spare this worthless man.
speaker5: frederick!
speaker4: oh wow, man. oh wow.
speaker6: what happened?
speaker5: you died, you stupid bastard. i warned you.
speaker2: you guys are awesome.
speaker3: c'mon.
speaker1: not us. the first step is love. the second is mercy.

speaker1: that guy i brought in yesterday, post-cardiac arrest. he's gone. 
speaker2: burke. you won't believe it. he's showing cognitive signs. he started with spontaneous respiration, now he's fighting to pull out the tube. had to sedate him. he's in a cat scan. i'm giving him every test i can: thromboytics, steroids, nitrodrips, heparin.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: who knows? it's all lower-brain-stem- activity. the heart refuses to stabilize--he's coded eleven times since he got here. this guy's a fighter. every time the valium wears off he starts yanking those restraints.
speaker1: the family know?
speaker2: i wanted to bring them in, to see if he'd respond to voices, but they weren't in the waiting room. the guy's daughter was in my face all last night and when i finally have something positive to tell her, she's gone.
speaker3: ... you put poison in your veins and now that you're breathing again you can't wait to say thank you and go back to poison shopping. well, since we saved your life, maybe you could do us a favor and stop breathing in another city next time ...

speaker1: i ever tell you about the time years ago i was on this ledge uptown, trying to talk this psycho inside? 
speaker2: where the guy jumped and you almost fell. no, you never told me that story.
speaker1: no, you never listened. i was going, man, if someone on high hadn't pulled me in. i had put all i had into saving this dumbass lowlife suicidal that when he went down, there was a part of me that wanted to go with him.
speaker2: make a left here. i want to stop.

speaker1: i'll be right back. 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: hello, i'm frank pierce, from the ambulance last night. i brought your father into the hospital and i just learned some news.
speaker2: i'll be right down.
speaker2: he's better, isn't he?
speaker1: well, the doctor says he's showing some movement. it's still early, it might mean nothing, but i thought you'd want to know.
speaker2: i knew. i sensed it when i heard your voice.
speaker1: you look so different.
speaker2: i know. it's awful, isn't it? night of the living cheerleaders.
speaker1: i think it looks good.
speaker2: i was going nuts in that waiting room so i came back to check on my mom.
speaker1: how is she?
speaker2: sleeping.
speaker1: i was just going to get some food. pizza. maybe we could.
speaker2: you can't kill my father that easy. he'll fight forever. like with me: hasn't talked to me in three years. but it's okay. sometimes you have to put things behind you.
speaker1: be tough to get a taxi here. we can give you a ride if you like.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: who's that?
speaker1: she's the daughter of a cardiac arrest i brought in last night. i told her we'd give her a ride back to misery. her father's showing signs of improving.
speaker3: oh, frank, you've got it bad, so much worse than i thought.
speaker1: i'm hungry too. we gotta get some food after this.
speaker3: help us, he's hungry too.

speaker1: dad, can you hear me? open your eyes if you can hear me. 
speaker1: he squeezed my hand!
speaker2: i'll be it's movement, but i'm not sure how voluntary.
speaker1: he hears me. open your eyes, dad.
speaker2: nurse crupp, i need ten milligrams of valium.
speaker3: why don't we go outside for a little while, wait until this passes.

speaker1: he wants to pull that tube out. it's pretty painful--that's why they keep him sedated--but it's a good sign. 
speaker2: you sure? i know my father would hate to be tied down. he wouldn't even go to the dentist.
speaker1: that's how it's done. you have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
speaker2: he's better, though, right?
speaker1: he's better.
speaker2: look, i'm sorry, but it's important to me. i mean, a week ago i was wishing he was dead. and now i want hear his voice again, just once more-- you know what i mean?
speaker3: went over to sal's got this. there must be some place in for a guy who sells a dollar-fifty a slice. i call you if anything comes up.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: i'm not really hungry.
speaker2: my father was a great man, you know. there was nobody he wouldn't help. you know that crazy guy noel who i gave water to last night? he lived in our house for almost a year. a total stranger he'd do anything for, his own family though ...
speaker1: it's best not to ... it's good pizza, huh?
speaker2: not as good as nino's.
speaker1: you remember that pizza place, joe's on tenth street maybe fifteen years ago? when you ordered a pie it came with a little plastic madonna in the middle?
speaker2: yeah, or saint anthony. you from the neighborhood?
speaker1: i grew up on elizabeth. i went to blessed sacrament.
speaker2: on yeah? i went to holy name. where'd you go to high school?
speaker1: we moved out after that. upstate.
speaker2: like everybody else--except us. always standing on the sidewalk waving goodbye to moving trucks. your parents

speaker1: they're fine. my old man was a bus driver, mom a nurse--i was sort of born to it, i guess. 
speaker2: you married?
speaker1: ah, no. i was. it's hard to explain. she had a hard time adjusting to, well, maybe it was my fault too. pause. this thought hangs in the air. from outside: a bellicose drunk is escorted into the er.
speaker3: white get your--ow!
speaker2: is it always this bad in here? i mean, how does anyone survive?
speaker1: it's been bad lately, but it's always bad.
speaker2: how long you been doing this?
speaker1: five years.
speaker2: wow, you musta seen some things, huh? what's the worst thing you ever seen?
speaker1: you learn to sort of block it out, you know, like cops fence off a crime scene. but then something good will happen and everything will just glow.
speaker2: you must get a lot of overdoses. i bet you picked me up a couple of times.
speaker1: i think i'd remember that.
speaker2: maybe not. i was a different person then. does everybody you meet spill their problems on you like this?
speaker1: mostly. it must be my face. my mother always said i looked like a priest.
speaker2: i better go check on my father. thanks for the pizza. i owe you one. maybe when he gets better, you know, when we're done with all this.
speaker1: sure.
speaker1: look after her, griss, okay?

speaker1: rule number one: don't get involved with patients. rule number two: don't get involved with patient's daughters. you understand? 
speaker2: what about rule number three: don't get involved with dispatchers named love.
speaker1: you don't know the first thing about rule number three, cannot begin to understand the complexities of that rule. come on, let's go look at some hookers. the kit kat will be letting out. don't ever call a junkie a crackhead. they get real mad.
speaker1: look at these women. you can't even tell who's a anymore. whatever happened to go-go boots and hot pants? they wear anything now, walk outta the house with whatever they got on ...
speaker2: the street is so much more unpredictable than the er and to prepare for the unexpected i was taught to act without thinking, like an army private who can take apart and reassemble a gun blindfolded ...
speaker2: i realized that my training was useful in less than ten percent of the calls and saving someone's life was rarer than that. as the years went by i grew to understand that my role was less about saving lives than about bearing witness. i was a grief mop and much of my job was to remove, if even for a short time, the grief starter or the grief product. it was enough i simply showed up.
speaker1: ... look at her. leaves you no idea what's underneath, not even a suggestion. could be a skeleton for all you know.
speaker1: nice though, pulling back her hood as we drive by. there's a mystery to it, then she shows you.
speaker2: she's no whore, marcus.
speaker1: we're all whores, frank. you know what i'm talking about, the way she looked at me.
speaker2: she wasn't looking at you, man, she was looking at me.
speaker3: why did you kill me, frank?
speaker2: i didn't kill you.
speaker1: no, you didn't, frank, thank you. but there's still a couple hours left on the shift.
speaker2: i need a drink, that's all.
speaker4: twelve young, answer the radio. i have a call for you.
speaker1: she said to me, i love the way you talk on the radio.
speaker4: i can't wait all night, young. i'm holding a priority and if you don't answer i'm going to knock you out of service.
speaker1: don't worry, hon. young is here and he's gonna help out--just remember, you owe me.
speaker4: you're going to three-four avenue c, 17 year-old female cardiac arrest, no further information.
speaker1: ten-four, hon.

speaker1: look at that. a fat junkie. that's a first. 
speaker2: what's wrong.
speaker3: no english. she has terrible pain in her belly.
speaker2: pregnant.
speaker3: no, no, that's impossible.
speaker2: are you pregnant? estas embarazada?
speaker2: can you walk? puedes caminar?
speaker3: she say she in great pain.
speaker2: thanks for the translation. what's your name? nombre?
speaker4: maria.
speaker2: let's have a look.
speaker1: you know each other a long time?
speaker3: two years. ever since we left island.
speaker1: in that time, you ever have sex?
speaker3: never. no cigarettes, no drugs, no booze.
speaker1: no underwear?
speaker3: we are virgins.
speaker2: oh we'd better go. call for backup.
speaker2: it's coming. hold her down.
speaker1: what's that, frank?
speaker2: three legs.
speaker1: that's too many.
speaker2: backup?
speaker1: it's coming.
speaker3: is she dying?
speaker2: she's having a baby. twins.
speaker3: es impossible.
speaker2: you can trust me on this one.
speaker3: it's a miracle.
speaker2: you take the first one.

speaker1: she had a pulse. 
speaker2: code! code blue!
speaker3: oh put her on the monitor. where's the pediatric code cart? odette give me that tube. all right, flatline--let's do cpr. step back, frank. how many months?
speaker1: can't tell. it was a breech, twins. the other one seems okay, though. marcus is taking him and the mother to maternity.
speaker4: i'm a mother! i got a daughter! i got rights!
speaker3: 10 mil valium, stat.
speaker5: status.
speaker2: i think there's a pulse. i think.
speaker5: 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker6: excuse me, sir, excuse me, i would please trouble you for one cup of water. the smallest thing in the world to ask for, water. a man is dying and that is me.
speaker6: for days i've eaten nothing but sand, o lord, i waited so long.
speaker3: christ. who the woke him up?

speaker1: don't give me that look. 
speaker2: what look?
speaker1: you know what i'm talking about. it's all over your face. that i-just- saved-a-little-baby-boy look.
speaker2: we just saved a little baby boy. think of it that way.
speaker1: i don't want to hear about it, okay? that's three jobs for the night. it's over. three jobs and time for a drink. six am, the cocktail hour. pass the bottle; i know you're holding.
speaker2: the bar is now open.
speaker1: i hate vodka.
speaker2: please, a little decorum if you will. what i was going to say is, is that holding that baby in my arms, i felt like i was twenty-one again. a call like that makes me think of going back to three nights a week, not two, start running again, cut down on the drinking.
speaker1: i'll drink to that.
speaker2: here's to the greatest job in the world.
speaker1: greatest job in the world.
speaker3: twelve young, i have priorities holding. pick up the radio.
speaker1: don't do it, marcus. tell her the bus died, our radio's not working, our backs are out. tell her we're too drunk to take any more calls.
speaker2: let's do it! it's marcus, love, only for you.
speaker3: male diff breather, approximately 30, houston and a.
speaker2: ten-four.
speaker2: i'm coming, love! i'm coming!
speaker2: 
speaker2: where you going?
speaker1: i quit! i'm through!
speaker2: you can't leave me now.

speaker1: so long, noel. 
speaker1: what's going on, griss?
speaker2: your friend there just untied the water beggar. griss was coming out to thank her. probably saved griss a murder charge. having a tough time of it.

speaker1: excuse me. you seemed like you were in trouble. 
speaker2: i'm all right. i just can't stand to see people tied up. i'm in the waiting room for hours, listening to noel screaming. the only reason he's screaming is 'cause he's tied up.
speaker1: don't seem so bad to me.
speaker2: don't say that. i wanted to cut my father loose too. they told me he almost died and five minutes later they say he's better and i go in. it's killing me seeing him fighting like that. look, since you're here, maybe you could do me a favor. i need you to wait for me outside this building, okay? i have to visit a friend who's sick.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i'm only asking because it's a dangerous building. there's been some robberies, a woman was raped not long ago. this woman i'm seeing, she'll want to talk to me all day, but if i can point to you out the window and say you're waiting, i can be out quick. if anything happens, i'll be in apartment 16m.
speaker1: maybe i should come up with you.
speaker2: if i'm not back in fifteen minutes, hit the buzzer. that way she'll let me go.
speaker1: nothing's going to happen. i'll come with you.
speaker2: no, i'll be fine. i'm just visiting a sick friend.

speaker1: i shouldn't have asked you to come. 
speaker2: you asked me not to come.
speaker1: promise you won't go inside.
speaker2: fifteen minutes.
speaker1: i just have to relax a little. not feel so guilty all the time.
speaker2: we can still go back. i'll walk you home. you sleep a couple of hours, watch some tv, take a bath.
speaker1: don't be a cop. if you have any doubts about this, it's my fault. the elevator jerks to a stop; the doors open.

speaker1: you go on home, okay. i'm fine, really. i don't need you. thanks. 
speaker2: hey cy, guess who's here?
speaker3: mary ...

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: mary burke. she's a friend.
speaker1: she's not here.
speaker1: wait a minute. you can't go in.
speaker3: it's okay, kanita. come on in.
speaker1: he looks like a cop.
speaker3: he's not a cop, he's a medic. i'm cy coates.
speaker2: frank pierce.
speaker3: mary said you might be coming.
speaker2: where is she?
speaker3: sleeping in the back.
speaker2: she asked me to pick her up.
speaker3: i know, but she told me to tell you she wants to crash here a few hours. terrible about her father, isn't it?
speaker2: i better just go in and see her.
speaker3: i call this the oasis. refuge from the world out there. did you know two people were shot in this building last week?
speaker3: careful. that's the tiger. the lady's down the hall. welcome to sunrise enterprises, frank, the stress-free factory.
speaker2: mary. mary, we've got to get going.
speaker4: no, no.
speaker3: she wanted something to help her sleep.
speaker2: mary, we really have to go.
speaker3: frank, she's suffered enough. she's okay, i promise. c'mon, frank. coates escorts frank back to the living room.
speaker3: i'm always interested in people in stressful occupations and being a paramedic is about as stressful as i can imagine. here, sit down. what's it like? tell me some war stories.
speaker2: got a beer?
speaker3: that is poison, frank. we don't drink alcohol here. what you need is one of these.
speaker2: did you give mary something called red death?
speaker3: red death? tell me something, frank--does killing your clients make good business sense to you? the kids selling that have no sense. they'll be taken care of, don't worry about that.
speaker2: i should be going. i just quit.
speaker3: sleep is all stress reduction. here. you take one of these, sleep two hours, that's all you need. why do you think i'm telling you this, frank--for my health? you ought to look at yourself in the mirror, man. kanita, get him a glass of water.
speaker2: is this what you gave mary?
speaker3: that's the stuff. i call it the red lion. very king-of-the-jungle.
speaker3: frank, i'm trying to help you. drink up.
speaker2: i guess i'll be going.
speaker3: just take it easy.
speaker1: take my pulse. it's good, isn't it?
speaker2: perfect.
speaker1: i knew it. i was wrong about you. you're not so bad.

speaker1: you're in the stomach! 
speaker2: you sure?
speaker3: rose!
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: my name. rose.
speaker1: you're in the stomach, man. frank pulling the tube out, trying again.
speaker1: you're in the stomach! let me try.
speaker2: one more time!
speaker1: stomach again.
speaker2: no way!

speaker1: frank, take it easy. what happened? 
speaker2: he flipped out.
speaker1: be cool, man. you're having a paradoxical reaction. it can happen. didn't i tell you this guy was stressed out?
speaker2: stressed? he's psycho.
speaker1: frank, where you going?
speaker1: you're making a mistake. sit down and relax a minute.
speaker1: she'll be back. and, by the way, you owe me ten bucks.

speaker1: let go of me. you shouldn't have come up. i told you not to. you could have gotten us both killed. 
speaker1: you and cy have a nice talk? he tell you about sunrise enterprises, helping people? well, i've seen him hurt people. why are you following me?
speaker2: because you can barely walk.
speaker1: you remember noel, from the other night, how noel is now? he wasn't always like that. he was my brother's best friend. cy or tiger or one of those other goons put a bullet in noel's head. he was in a coma three months. crazy ever since.
speaker1: this is my place.

speaker1: what is it? you want to help me, you feel sorry for me? keep it to yourself. 
speaker2: i need to sit down a minute.
speaker1: or maybe you wanna me? everyone else has.
speaker1: i've been clean two years now. i got a job. i paint when i'm home. don't bother anybody. then all this happens.
speaker1: oh no you don't. you can't stay here.

speaker1: hello, i'm frank. mary's friend. a very close friend who loves animals. 
speaker1: hello?
speaker1: i washed my face with three kinds of soap, each smelling like a different season. it felt good to be in a woman's room again, especially a woman who wasn't comatose or severely disabled. i felt that perhaps i had turned a corner, like i saved someone, though i didn't know who.

speaker1: you're late, pierce. i know, but i can't fire you. i've got nobody to work sixteen xray with walls. 
speaker2: no ...
speaker1: i got some forms here to fill out about that accident when you get the time. i'll fire you tomorrow. i promise.
speaker2: what if there is no tomorrow?
speaker1: go on, get outta here, pierce, before i give you a big hug. i love this guy.

speaker1: don't make me take off my sunglasses. 
speaker2: morning, griss.
speaker3: we're full up tonight, frank.
speaker2: mr. burke?
speaker4: i'm going. i've had enough.
speaker2: you do it.
speaker5: can't reach. you're taller.
speaker4: don't do it.
speaker2: i thought he was getting better.
speaker5: technically, yeah. i suppose. it doesn't matter.
speaker2: why not?
speaker5: tha family wants us to do everything to save him--so, that's it. they want to keep him alive, they want to believe in miracles, we keep him alive. shock him, frank. he'll come back. he always comes back.
speaker2: clear!
speaker4: ow!
speaker4: you son of a
speaker5: should i increase the lidocaine? frank, despondent, not listening, walks away.

speaker1: frank, what you doing back there? 
speaker2: i'm sick, tom. i need a cure. vitamin b cocktail, followed by an amp of glucose and a drop of adrenaline. not as good as beer, but all i got.
speaker1: come on, frank. there's blood spilling in the streets.
speaker2: these are hard times, tom.
speaker1: yeah. great, isn't it?
speaker2: great to be drunk. sobriety's killing me.
speaker1: look up, frank. full moon. the blood's gonna run tonight. i can feel it. our mission: to save lives.
speaker2: our mission is coffee, tom. a shot of the bull, puerto rican espresso.
speaker1: ten-four. el toro de oro. blast off.
speaker2: the cure's not working, tom. maybe we should go back to the hospital.
speaker1: don't worry, kid. tom'll take care of you. put your head out the window, get some of that summer air. listen to the music. el toro de oro. andale. pronto.
speaker3: okay, units, it's suicide hour. fourteen boy, i show you in the hospital sixty minutes but i know you're in the diner on 14th. put down the burger, i got a call for you around the corner, 14 and 3rd, a man with a noose around his neck and nothing to hang it on. sixteen xray, don't even think about getting coffee, i have a call for you too.
speaker1: sixteen xterminator here. we like our coffee bloody. make it good--my partner's dying to help someone.
speaker3: you're in luck, x: your patient awaits you with bleeding wrists on avenue c and fourth.
speaker2: tom, where are the band-aids? this is an ambulance, isn't it?
speaker1: look out!

speaker1: what the hell's going on? 
speaker2: you've gotta take him to the hospital. he tried to kill himself. show him your wrist. show a.
speaker2: see, he ain't right.
speaker1: hold it. i will not take anyone anywhere against his will. this is america. people have rights.
speaker3: he was bleeding before. he kept spilling his beer. i gave him mouth- to-mouth.
speaker1: you're lucky you didn't kill him. we're going to hear it straight from the loony's mouth. are you crazy? did you try to bump yourself off?
speaker4: yesssss.
speaker1: why didn't you say so.
speaker1: sir, i am going to give you some medicine that is still very experimental. it's from nasa, and although the astronauts have been using it for years, we are the first service to try it. i will put this patch on your forehead like this, and in about a minute you will have to relax. you will forget all your suicidal feelings. it's very important that you wear this for a least twenty- four hours and keep checking the mirror. if the patch turns green you have to see the doctor immediately. the side effects could be fatal.
speaker5: this is the worst suicide attempt i've ever seen. you feel the pulse? here. that's where you cut, and it's not across, it's down like so. here take it.
speaker4: i can't.
speaker5: with all the poor people of this city who wanted only to live and were viciously murdered, you have the nerve to sit here waiting to die and not go through with it. you make me sick. take it.
speaker1: we cured him, frank. when we work together there's nothing we can't fix.

speaker1: hello, hello. major tom to frank, time to come home. 
speaker1: where you going?
speaker2: c'mon, tom. the city's burning.

speaker1: whatja doing? 
speaker2: i feel the need, the need for speed. i'm driving out of myself.
speaker1: the brakes are shot.
speaker2: i've taken that into consideration.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: i never felt better in my life.
speaker3: sixteen xray, xray.

speaker1: first of all, i want you to know how sorry i am about this. i've always liked you two. a unit above none, a legend in its own lunchtime, so it hurts me deeply to do this but i have no choice. you must go to second and st. marks. in front of a liquor store you'll find a forty year-old male, unconscious, lying next to his wheelchair. do i have to say more? 
speaker2: you've said too much already.
speaker3: mr. oh.
speaker2: it's early for him.
speaker3: that's all right, we're not meant to do oh tonight. something is going to happen. i can feel it.
speaker3: bingo. ems to central. what was that call?
speaker4: a jumper. stuyvesant town.
speaker3: ten-four. one minute out.
speaker1: sixteen, sixteen xray. level one emergency.

speaker1: whadda we bring? 
speaker2: better bring it all.

speaker1: the elevator's we'd never all fit anyway. let's go. 
speaker2: that's thirteen flights.
speaker3: the news guys just pulled up.
speaker4: the stairs, men, the stairs.
speaker3: this guy a jumper?
speaker5: we got a call for shots fired on the sixteenth floor. the jumper called right after.
speaker1: i'm going to sixteen.

speaker1: that's it, nobody else home. 
speaker2: i'm going to thirteen.

speaker1: get this, frank--we got two patients. number one, the scarecrow outside. number two misses the railing but breaks both legs on the balcony, then throws himself through a glass window, heads to the bedroom, where he's now passed out. 
speaker2: well, he's the steakhead of the night, then.
speaker1: i don't think the fire people can touch him out there.
speaker2: how's he doing?
speaker1: i haven't had a chance to see him yet. i'm going to take care of sleeping beauty.
speaker2: does that hurt?
speaker3: no!
speaker2: i don't think you've hurt any major organs. we got to get you off this thing without setting off bleeding.
speaker2: they're gonna torch the fence. you're gonna feel the metal getting warm, maybe very warm.
speaker3: i can't hold up my head anymore.
speaker3: so, frank, am i going to live?
speaker2: you're going to live.
speaker3: i've been thinking about things. meditating on my financial future. you guys gave me plenty of time to meditate on the future. whatja do, stop for chinese on the way over? there's plenty of food in my place.
speaker2: i was tired. i needed a coffee.
speaker3: what about kanita?
speaker2: dead.
speaker3: that's too bad. get some money, a nice looking girl on your arm, and everyone wants to take a piece. some kid i wouldn't let wash my mercedes is in my house, shooting at me. damn, i thought i could make it onto the balcony like tiger. he's fat, that's why, falls faster. i'm trying to watch my weight, and look what happens. am i shot, frank?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: boy can't shoot for either. that's hot.
speaker3: isn't it beautiful? when the fires start to fall, then the strongest rule it all. i love this city.
speaker4: good thing we buckled you in, huh?
speaker3: what about me? who's supposed to buckle me?
speaker4: i thought you did.
speaker5: i thought

speaker1: nurse crupp, we're going to need some valium here. he's waking up again. 
speaker1: where's that valium?
speaker2: don't. don't do it.
speaker1: give me a hand, frank. i've got to get something between those teeth.
speaker1: you can't believe how much he's improved.
speaker3: how many times have you shocked him tonight?
speaker1: fourteen. we finally got him a room upstairs. should be up there in a couple of hours.
speaker3: what do you do, just have someone follow him around with a defribilator?
speaker1: that's good, frank. no, but they might surgically implant one, about the size of my thumb. it goes near the shoulder here, with two electrodes connected to the heart. it sends a shock whenever it senses a drop in blood flow. amazing, isn't it?
speaker3: a medical miracle.

speaker1: everyone, this is the medic who brought my father in. frank, these are some of my father's friends. 
speaker2: we live out an the island now, but we used to live right down the block from pat. he was like a saint to us. came as soon as we heard.
speaker3: i'm going out for a smoke.

speaker1: i heard cy coates was brought in. he looked pretty bad. 
speaker2: he'll be all right.
speaker1: too bad. he called me up today, can you believe that? i don't know how he got my number. he asks me do i want to come over and see him, i tell him i'd rather go to a leper colony. he says there's a new gang that wants to kill him, take over the business. i told him i hope he's right. that they kill him. that's what i told him.
speaker2: it'll be a while before he's up and running again.
speaker1: ok, last night i was weak. it won't happen again. and all that i said--it was just because i was stoned. forget it.
speaker2: no problem. thanks for letting me crash. it was the best sleep i've had in months. i used some of your soap.
speaker1: i wish these people would leave already. i can't listen to another story. did you see him? that doctor says the brain is coming around. they're waiting for the heart to stabilize. i don't know who to believe. he says they still have to keep him tied up.
speaker2: can i bring you something back to eat--a falafal, some pizza?
speaker1: no, we just ate. i only remember how tough my father was. now i know he had to be like that, to make us tough. this city'll kill you if you aren't strong enough.
speaker2: no, the city doesn't discriminate. it gets everybody.
speaker2: i gotta go. another call.
speaker2: we're all dying, mary burke.
speaker1: this is not a good time.
speaker2: there's no time.

speaker1: get ready, frank. missed a drug shooting while you were dicking around in there. there's gonna be trauma tonight! 
speaker2: as long as we keep moving. no standing still.
speaker1: c'mon, look at your screen. give up some blood!
speaker3: sixteen xray, a man at the bus terminal shot three years ago says his arm hurts.
speaker2: c'mon, tom, pick up a job.
speaker1: you want some in the bus terminal? we'll wait for a real call.
speaker2: let's get in a fight, then.
speaker1: who with?
speaker2: that's your job. just keep driving, keep moving. no stopping. we're sharks. we stop too long, we die.
speaker2: let's break something, tom. let's bust something, bomb something.
speaker1: what do you want to break?
speaker2: i don't know--let's break some windows.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: destruction, distraction. i feel the need.
speaker1: you need a reason, frank. you don't just go around breaking people's windows. that's anarchy.
speaker2: what's the reason? give me a reason, tom.
speaker1: let me think.
speaker1: classic cabbie move. hey, swammy, that's called a crosswalk. you stop before it, not on it!
speaker1: i know who to work over. him.
speaker1: this guy's been terrorizing the neighborhood for weeks, ever since he got outta jail, wreaking general havoc, contributing to the bad name of the place. the term "menace to society" was made up for him.
speaker2: he's crazy. he can't help it.
speaker1: well, why don't they put him away? prisons don't want him. i took him to the hospital yesterday and here he is again. noel reaches the next car, a bronco, carefully hefts the bat, smashes it through the windshield.
speaker1: look at that. tell me that's a crazy person. every move is calculated. he knows exactly what he's doing. this is the guy. i've been after him for weeks. he's quick, runs like a rat, tough for one person, but with two of us--
speaker2: okay, whatta i do?
speaker1: if he sees me, he'll run, so i'll get out here. you start talking to him about baseball or something while i sneak around behind and get down and you push him. when he falls we get him.
speaker2: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: believe me, it always works. the simpler, the better.
speaker2: you learn that in the army?
speaker2: flatbush.
speaker2: that's a of a swing you got there, noel. i'm thinking strawberry in his prime.
speaker4: strawberry ain't drug pussy. me. i swing like reggie. mr. october. number three, game six, world series.
speaker4: here, you try.
speaker2: no, i'd better not.
speaker4: sure, sure, give go.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker2: what the hell. the next year, tiebreaker for the division, in boston, yanks down two to nothing, bucky dent steps to the plate.
speaker4: oh man, bucky.
speaker2: the pitch, high heater. bucky knows what's coming. he steps in, smash, over the green monster.
speaker1: frank, what the are you doing?
speaker1: you go down those stairs there. meet me back here if you can't find him in ten minutes. call out if you see him. get with the program, frank.

speaker1: i didn't mean to. 
speaker2: you should have helped me.
speaker1: i tried to help. i wanted to.
speaker2: don't you love me?
speaker3: i got him, frank!
speaker1: get the kit! we're gonna tube him!
speaker3: frank!
speaker1: do it!
speaker3: frank!
speaker1: we're gonna save you, noel. you're gonna be all right. do it, tom! i'll call for backup, i swear!
speaker3: you're crazy.
speaker1: you're going to make it! you're going to make it!

speaker1: take him straight through. 
speaker2: who got that funky this time?
speaker3: last show of the night.
speaker4: christ. nurse crupp! anybody else hurt?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: crazy
speaker3: where's burke?
speaker4: upstairs. 212. had to shock him twice more.

speaker1: what happened? code! 
speaker1: are we doing cpr?
speaker1: he coded.
speaker2: christ, what a way to start the day. he's in v-fib. shock him.
speaker1: clear!
speaker2: zap him again.
speaker2: nothing. get the cart, start compressions, get an epinephrine in.
speaker2: that's enough. i called it. let's get some coffee. you gonna tell the family?

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: frank.
speaker1: come on up.

speaker1: he's dead, rose. your father passed. 
speaker2: how can that be? he was getting better.
speaker1: he coded. they shocked him one too many times. i'm sorry.
speaker2: he was tough. you did all you could.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: you have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
speaker2: would you like to come in?
speaker1: yes.

