speaker1: my name is h. i. mcdunnough... 
speaker2: with horizontal hatch lines.
speaker1: ...call me hi.

speaker1: ...the first time i met ed was in the county lock-up in tempe, arizona... 
speaker2: as his picture is taken.
speaker3: on the paddle: "nov. 29 79."
speaker1: ...a day i'll never forget.
speaker4: don't forget the profile, ed!

speaker1: turn to the right. 
speaker2: what kind of name is ed for a pretty thing like you?
speaker3: short for edwinna. turn to the right!
speaker2: you're a flower, you are. just a little desert flower.
speaker4: on his eye-skewed profile.
speaker2: lemme know how those come out.

speaker1: ...but there's a spirit of camaraderie that exists between the men, like you find only in combat maybe... 
speaker2: grrrr...
speaker1: ...or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive.

speaker1: in an effort to better ourselves we were forced to meet with a counselor who tried to help us figure out why we were the way we were... 
speaker2: why do you use the word "trapped"?

speaker1: huh? 
speaker2: why do you say you feel "trapped" in a man's body?
speaker1: oh...
speaker1: ...well, sometimes i get the menstrual cramps real hard.

speaker1: have you learned anything, hi? 
speaker2: yessir, you bet.
speaker3: you wouldn't lie to us, would you hi?
speaker2: no ma'am, hope to say.
speaker1: okay then.

speaker1: i tried to stand up and fly straight, but it wasn't easy with that sumbitch reagan in the white house... 
speaker1: ...i dunno, they say he's a decent man, so...
speaker1: ...maybe his advisers are confused.

speaker1: turn to the right! 
speaker2: what's the matter, ed?
speaker1: my fai-ants left me.
speaker3: she said her fiancã©e had run off with a student cosmetologist who knew how to ply her feminine wiles.
speaker4: on hi's profile. he turns back to ed.
speaker2: that sumbitch.
speaker5: don't forget his phone call, ed!
speaker2: you tell him i think he's a fool, ed. you tell him i said so - h.i. mcdunnough. and if he wants to discuss it he knows where to find me...
speaker2: ...in the maricopa county maximum security correctional facility for men...
speaker6: looking up through her tears as hi is led away.
speaker2: ...state farm road number thirty- one; tempe, arizona...

speaker1: ...i'll be waiting! 
speaker2: as hi is once again escorted toward his cell.
speaker3: i can't say i was happy to be back inside, but the flood of familiar sights, sounds and faces almost made it feel like a homecoming.
speaker4: as hi passes.
speaker5: grrrr...
speaker6: group is meeting again.
speaker7: most men your age, hi, are getting married and raising up a family. they wouldn't accept prison as a substitute.
speaker7: ...would any of you men care to comment?
speaker8: but sometimes your career gotta come before family.
speaker9: work is what's kept us happy.
speaker10: yeah, but doc schwartz is sayin' you gotta accept responsibilities. i mean i'm proud to say i got a family... somewheres.

speaker1: i tried to sort through what the doc had said, but prison ain't the easiest place to think. 
speaker2: an' when they was no meat we ate fowl. an' when they was no fowl we ate crawdad. an' when they was no crawdad to be foun', we ate san'.
speaker3: you ate what?
speaker2: we ate san'.
speaker3: you ate sand?!
speaker2: dass right...

speaker1: well boy, you done served your twenty munce, and seeing as you never use live ammo, we got no choice but to return you to society. 
speaker2: these doors goan swing wide.
speaker3: i didn't want to hurt anyone, sir.
speaker2: hi, we respect that.
speaker1: but you're just hurtin' yourself with this rambunctious behavior.
speaker3: i know that, sir.
speaker1: okay then.

speaker1: now i don't know how you come down on the incarceration question... 
speaker1: ...whether it's for rehabilitation or revenge.
speaker1: ...but i was beginning to think...
speaker1: ...that revenge is the only argument makes any sense.
speaker2: on hi against the mug-shot wall.
speaker3: turn to the right!
speaker4: don't forget his latents, ed!

speaker1: hear about the paddy-wagon collided with the segment mixer, ed? twelve hardened criminals escaped. 
speaker1: got a new beau?
speaker2: no, hi, i sure don't.
speaker1: don't worry, i paid for it.

speaker1: they say that absence makes the heart grow fonder, and for once they may be right. 
speaker2: you missed a spot.
speaker3: grrrr...

speaker1: more and more my thoughts turned to ed, and i finally felt the pain of imprisonment. 
speaker2: an' momma would frow the live crawdad in a pot of boiln' water. well one day i decided to make my own crawdad...
speaker1: ...an' i frew it in a pot, forgettin' to put in the water, ya see...
speaker1: ...and it was like i was makin' popcorn, ya see... the joint is a lonely place after lock-up and fights out...
speaker1: ...when the last of the cons has been swept away by the sandman.
speaker3: the underside of the top bunk.

speaker1: but i couldn't help thinking that a brighter future lay ahead - a future that was only eight to fourteen months away. 
speaker2: hi and the same three officers.
speaker3: got a name for people like you, hi. that name is called recidivism.
speaker4: ree-peat o-fender.
speaker3: not a pretty name, is it, hi?
speaker5: no sir, it sure ain't. that's one bonehead name. but that ain't me anymore.
speaker3: you're not just tellin' us what we wanna hear?
speaker5: no sir, no way.
speaker4: 'cause we just wanna hear the truth.
speaker5: well then i guess i am tellin' you what you wanna hear.
speaker3: boy, didn't we just tell you not to do that?
speaker5: yessir.
speaker3: okay then.

speaker1: i'm walkin' in here on my knees, ed - a free man proposin'. 
speaker1: howdy kurt.

speaker1: and so it was. 
speaker2: don't forget the boo-kay, ed!

speaker1: i do. 
speaker2: also staring into the camera.
speaker3: you bet i do.
speaker4: over their shoulders, the minister.
speaker5: okay then.
speaker6: on the newlyweds smiling at the camera.

speaker1: in the middle of a vast expanse of desert. 
speaker2: ed's pa staked us to a starter home in suburban tempe...

speaker1: ...and i got a job drilling holes in sheet metal. 
speaker2: so we was doin' paramedical work in affiliation with the state highway system-not actually practicin', y'understand - and me and bill's patrollin' down nine mile -
speaker3: bill roberts?
speaker2: no, not that motherscratcher! bill parker! anyway, we're approachin' the wreck, and there's a spherical object arestin' on the highway...
speaker2: ...and it don't look like a piece a the car.
speaker1: mostways the job was a lot like prison, except ed was waitin' at the end of every day...

speaker1: ...and a paycheck at the end of every week. 
speaker2: gummint do take a bite, don't she?

speaker1: these were the happy days, the salad days as they say... 
speaker1: ...and ed felt that having a critter was the next logical step. it was all she thought about.
speaker1: ...her point was that there was too much love and beauty for just the two of us...
speaker1: ...and every day we kept a child out of the world was a day he might later regret having missed.
speaker2: that was beautiful.

speaker1: it's true i've had a checkered past, but ed here is an officer of the law twice decorated... 
speaker2: looking, with a dead pan, from the file to hi.
speaker1: ...so we figure it kind of evens out.
speaker3: ...but biology and the prejudices of others conspired to keep us childless.

speaker1: our love for each other was stronger than ever... 
speaker1: ...but i preminisced no return of the salad days.

speaker1: even my job seemed as dry and bitter as a hot prairie wind. 
speaker2: so here comes bill a-walkin' down nine mile - that's bill parker, y'understand - got his sandwich in one hand, the head in the other...
speaker1: i even caught myself drivin' by convenience stores...
speaker3: 7-eleven.
speaker1: ...that weren't on the way home.
speaker4: hi and ed sit listlessly watching tv.
speaker1: then one day the biggest news hit the state since they built the hoover dam...
speaker1: ...the arizona quints was born.

speaker1: so come on down to unpainted arizona for the finest selection in fixtures and appointments for your bathroom, bedroom, beaudoir! 
speaker2: ...the owner of the largest chain of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixture outlets throughout the southwest.
speaker1: and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name ain't nathan arizona!

speaker1: now y'all who're without sin can cast the first stone... 
speaker1: ...but we thought it was unfair that some should have so many while others should have so few.

speaker1: ...miles, all i know is i'm away from the office to have me some kids and everything goes straight to heck! i ain't gonna stand for it! 
speaker2: ...yeah, and if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his a-hoppin'! i'm sick of your excuses, miles! it is now...
speaker2: ...8:45 in the p.m. i'm gonna be down to the store in exactly twelve hours to kick me some butt!
speaker2: ...or my name ain't nathan arizona!
speaker1: that sounds like larry.
speaker3: shhhh! shh! nice baby...

speaker1: barely able to fight down her anger. hissing: 
speaker2: what's the matter?!
speaker3: sorry honey, it just didn't work out.
speaker2: what d'you mean it didn't work out?!
speaker3: they started cryin', then they were all over me...
speaker3: ...it was kinda horrifying - lemme in, honey.
speaker2: course they cried! babies cry!
speaker3: i know that now! come on honey, we better leave -
speaker2: you go right back up there and get me a toddler! i need a baby, hi; they got more'n they can handle!
speaker3: aw honey i -
speaker2: don't you come back here without a baby!

speaker1: looking. 
speaker2: of the window, as hi's head appears in it.
speaker3: looking.
speaker4: looking back, he holds a finger to his lips.

speaker1: christian dior my butt... 
speaker1: ...they pay money for that?
speaker2: yes dear.
speaker1: how're the kids?
speaker2: fine dear.
speaker1: kids, i love 'em.

speaker1: which one ya get? 
speaker2: i dunno. nathan jr., i think.
speaker1: gimme here.
speaker2: here's the instructions.
speaker1: oh, he's beautiful!
speaker2: he's awful good. i think i got the best one.
speaker1: i bet they were all beautiful. all babies are beautiful!
speaker2: yeah. this one's awful good though.
speaker1: don't you cuss around him.
speaker2: he's fine, he is. i think it's nathan jr.
speaker1: we are doin' the right thing, aren't we hi? - i mean, they had more'n they could handle.
speaker2: well now honey we been over this and over this. there's what's right and there's what's right, and never the twain shall meet.
speaker1: but you don't think his momma'll be upset? i mean overly?
speaker2: well a course she'll be upset, sugar, but she'll get over it. she's got four little babies almost as good as this one. it's like when i was robbin' convenience stores - ed suddenly bursts out crying.
speaker1: i love him so much!
speaker2: i know you do, honey.
speaker1: i love him so much!

speaker1: okay, bring him in! 
speaker2: ed is entering with nathan jr.
speaker1: this is it young nathan jr. just feast your eyes about, old boy!
speaker3: don't be so loud around him, hi.
speaker1: damn, i'm sorry honey.
speaker3: and don't you cuss around him.
speaker1: aw, he don't know a cuss word from shinola.
speaker3: well see that he don't.
speaker1: he's all right, he is.
speaker1: ...come on over here, nathan jr., i'll show you around.
speaker1: ...lookahere, young sportsman. that - there's the kitchen area where ma and pa chow down. over there's the tv, two hours a day maximum, either educational or football so's you don't ruin your appreciation of the finer things. this - here's the divan, for sociahzin' and relaxin' with the family unit. yessir, many's the day we sat there and said wouldn't it be nice to have a youngster here to share our thoughts and feelin's - impatient with the nonsense:
speaker3: he's tired, hi.
speaker1: well we'll just sit you right there, boy...
speaker1: ...just put those dogs up'n take a load off.
speaker1: what are you kiddin'?! we got a family here!
speaker1: ...he's a scandal, honey! he's a little outlaw!
speaker3: he's a good boy.
speaker1: he ain't too good! you can tell by that twinkle in his eye!
speaker3: don't you think we should put him to bed?
speaker1: hang on, honey...
speaker1: ...let's us preserve the moment in pictures!
speaker3: just one, okay?...
speaker3: ...i gotta tell ya, i'm a little scared.
speaker1: how come is that, honey?
speaker3: well we got a baby, hi. it's an awful big responsibility.
speaker1: honey, could ya slide over a tad and raise the nipper up?
speaker3: i mean we never done this before and i'm kinda nervous.
speaker1: you're doin' real good, sugar.
speaker3: i love you, hi.
speaker1: we're set to pop here, honey.
speaker3: you're gonna help, aren't ya?
speaker1: how's that, honey?
speaker3: give nathan jr. a normal family background, just quiet evenings at home together...
speaker1: you can count on it, honey.
speaker3: ...everything decent'n normal from here on out.
speaker1: uh-huh.

speaker1: ...okay. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: mercury. looks nice.

speaker1: open up! 
speaker1: ...open up in air!

speaker1: open up! it's a police! 
speaker2: he sits up and tenses. he looks around.
speaker3: hi! what's goin' on?
speaker1: po-lice, son! open her up!
speaker4: get in the bedroom.
speaker3: they ain't gonna take nathan?!
speaker4: well i'd like to see 'em fly.
speaker1: open up and maybe we'll letcha plea- bargain.

speaker1: honey, like you to meet gale and evelle snopes, fine a pair as ever broke and entered. 
speaker1: ...boys, this - here's my wife.
speaker2: ma'am.
speaker3: miz mcdunnough.
speaker4: kind of late for visitors, isn't it hi?
speaker1: well yeah honey, but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint. gotta show a little hospitality.
speaker2: well now h.i., looks like you been up to the devil's bidnis!
speaker3: that a him or a her?
speaker4: it's a little boy.
speaker2: got a name, does he?
speaker1: well so far we just been using junior.
speaker4: we call him junior.
speaker3: say, thairs good - jr., just like on the teevee.
speaker2: "welcome... home... son." where's he been?
speaker1: tulsa.
speaker4: phoenix.
speaker1: he was, uh... he was visiting his grandparents.
speaker4: they're separated.
speaker2: was that yer folks ma'am?
speaker4: no, i'm afraid not.
speaker2: i thought yer folks was dead, h.i.?
speaker1: well we thought junior should see their final resting place - whyn't you boys have a seat?
speaker4: hi, it's two in the morning...
speaker4: ...what's that smell?
speaker2: we don't always smell like this, miz mcdunnough. i was just explainin' to yer better half here that when we were tunneln' out we hit the main sewer - luck, that - and just followed that to -
speaker4: you mean you busted out of jail!!
speaker2: waaaal...
speaker3: we released ourselves on our own recognizance.
speaker2: what evelle means to say is, we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us.
speaker2: ...my lord he's cute.
speaker3: he's a little outlaw, you can see that.
speaker4: now listen, you folks can't stay here!
speaker3: ...ma'am?
speaker4: you just can't stay! i appreciate your bein' friends of hi and all, but this is a decent family now...
speaker4: ...i mean we got a toddler here!
speaker2: say, who wears the pants round here

speaker1: now honey - 
speaker2: don't you honey me. now you boys can set a while and catch up, and then you'll be on your way.
speaker3: gotcha on a awful short leash, don't she h.i.?

speaker1: they still here? 
speaker2: yeah, they're just gonna stay a day or two. it's raining out honey, they got nowhere to go.
speaker1: they're fugitives, hi...
speaker1: ...how're we gonna start a new life with them around?
speaker2: well now honey you gotta have a little charity. ya know, in arab lands they'd set out a plate -
speaker1: promise just a day or two.
speaker2: tonight and tomorrow, tops.

speaker1: still craning down. 
speaker2: ...i'd drifted off thinkin' about happiness, birth, and new life...
speaker3: wall of flames. deafening roar.

speaker1: ...a lone biker of the apocalypse... 
speaker2: as he roars along a ribbon of desert highway.
speaker1: ...a man with all the powers of her at his command.
speaker1: ...he could turn the day into night... the biker cracks the whip and, at the crack:

speaker1: i didn't know where he came from or why... 
speaker1: i didn't know if he was dream or vision...

speaker1: he all right? 
speaker2: he's all right. he was just havin' a nightmare.
speaker1: yeah, well...

speaker1: looking. 
speaker2: ...sometimes it's a hard world for little things.
speaker3: the orange sun, rumbling, perceptibly rising.

speaker1: no, the missus and the rest of the kids've left town to i ain't sayin' where. they'll be back here when we're a nuclear fam'ly again. 
speaker2: mr. arizona, which tot was abducted?
speaker1: nathan jr., i think.
speaker2: do you have anything to say to the kidnappers?
speaker1: yeah: watch yer
speaker2: sir, it's been rumored that your son was abducted by ufos. would you care to comment?
speaker1: now don't print that, son. if his mama reads that she's just gonna lose all hope. a policeman from inside the house is taking nathan by the elbow.
speaker3: we really have to ask you some more questions, sir...
speaker1: but remember, it's still business as usual at unpainted arizona, and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name still ain't nathan arizona!

speaker1: mr. byrum here can take your exemplars while you talk. 
speaker2: just let your hand relax; i'll do the work.
speaker3: what is this?! i didn't steal the kid!
speaker1: sir, these men are from the fbi-
speaker3: are you boys crazy?! all i know is i wake up this morning with my wife screaming-
speaker2: we just need to distinguish your prints from the perpetrators', if they left any.
speaker3: course! i know that!
speaker4: sir, we have an indication you were born nathan huffhines; is this correct?
speaker3: yeah, i changed m'name; what of it?
speaker5: could you give us an indication why?
speaker3: yeah, would you buy furniture at a store called unpainted huffhines?
speaker4: all right, i'll get to the point-
speaker6: was the child wearing anything when he was abducted?
speaker3: no one sleeps nekkid in this house, boy! he was wear-
speaker4: i'm asking the questions here, officer.
speaker7: if we're gonna put out an apb we need a description of the -
speaker3: he was wearin' his-
speaker5: it's just that we're better trained to intervene in crisis situations what was he wearing?
speaker3: a dinner jacket! wuddya think, he was wearing his jammies!
speaker5: the child was wearing his jammies. are you happy?
speaker4: do you have any disgruntled employees?
speaker3: hell, they're all disgruntled! i ain't runnin' a daisy farm!
speaker7: what did the pajamas-
speaker3: my motto is do it my way or watch your butt!
speaker7: what did the pajamas-
speaker4: so you think it might have been an employee?
speaker3: don't make me laugh. without my say- so they don't with their pants on fire.
speaker7: what did the pajamas look like?
speaker4: officer-
speaker3: i dunno, they were jammies! they had yodas'n on 'em!
speaker8: would ya mind, i'm trying to set up a command post here!
speaker3: get your feet off m'damn coffee table!
speaker4: ron, you're upsetting the victim.
speaker3: damnit, are you boys gonna go chase down your leads or are you gonna sit drinkin' coffee in the one house in the state where i know my boy ain't at?!
speaker5: sir, there aren't any "leads" yet, aside from this coat-
speaker3: gimme that!
speaker3: that's a five-hundred-dollar camel's hair-
speaker2: sir, you might want to wash your hands at this point.
speaker3: well goddamnit!
speaker3: ...no leads?!
speaker3: ...everyone leaves microbes'n whatnot!
speaker3: ...hell, that's your forte, trackin' down them microbes left by criminals'n commies'n that's yer whole raison d'itre! no leads?! i want nathan jr. back, or whichever the one they took! he's out there somewhere! somethin' leads to him! and anyone can find him knows the difference between a lead and a hole in the ground!!

speaker1: ...whyncha breast feed him? you 'pear to be capable. 
speaker2: mind your own bidnis.
speaker3: ya don't breast feed him, he'll hate you for it later. that's why we wound up in prison.
speaker1: anyway, that's what doc schwartz tells us.
speaker4: boys.
speaker3: morni', h.i.
speaker2: ...hi.
speaker4: oh yeah... say boys, you wouldn't mind makin' yourself scarce for a couple hours this afternoon?
speaker2: we're havin' some decent friends over.
speaker4: heh-heh... what ed means to say is, seein' as you two boys are wanted, it wouldn't exactly do to have folks seein' you here - i mean for your own protection.
speaker1: sure h.i.
speaker3: anything you say.
speaker4: matter of fact honey, maybe i'll skip this little get-together myself, glen won't mind, and i'll just duck out with the boys, knock back a couple of-uh, co-colas-
speaker1: sure h.i.
speaker3: we'd love to have ya.
speaker5: looking pleadingly at hi.

speaker1: ...well... maybe that ain't such a hot idea either. gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling. 
speaker2: so many social engagements. so little time.

speaker1: glen, dot- 
speaker2: where's at baby? where's he at?
speaker3: go find him honey!
speaker2: cut it out, glen!
speaker4: he's asleep right now.
speaker3: i hope we didn't wake it!
speaker2: can i just sneak a peek-a-loo?
speaker3: come on kids...

speaker1: what's his name? 
speaker2: uh... hi jr. till we think of a better one.
speaker1: whyncha call him jason? i love biblical names. if i had another little boy i'd name him jason or caleb or- oh!
speaker1: ...he's an angel!
speaker1: ...he's an angel straight from heaven! now honey i had all my kids the hard way so you gotta tell me where you got this angel. did he fly straight down from heaven?
speaker2: well-
speaker1: you gonna send him to arizona state?

speaker1: need a beer, glen? 
speaker2: does the pope wear a funny hat?
speaker1: ...well yeah, glen, i guess it is kinda funny.
speaker2: say, that reminds me! how many pollacks it take to screw up a lightbulb?
speaker1: i don't know glen, one? hi looks down.
speaker2: nope, it takes three!
speaker2: ...wait a minute, i told it wrong. here, i'm startin' over: how come it takes three pollacks to screw up a lightbulb?
speaker1: i don't know, glen.
speaker2: cause they're so stupid!
speaker2: man, loosen up! don't ya get it?
speaker1: no glen, i sure don't.
speaker2: man, think about it! i guess it's what they call a way homer.
speaker1: why's that?
speaker2: cause you only get it on the way home.
speaker1: i'm already home, glen.
speaker3: you wetchaself! mr. mcdunnough wet hisseff, daddy!
speaker2: say, that reminds me! how'd you get that kid s'darned fast? me'n dottie went in to adopt on account of something went wrong with m'semen, and they told us five years' wait for a healthy white baby! i said healthy white baby! five years! okay, what else you got? said, two koreans and one born with the heart outside...
speaker2: ...yeah, it's a crazy world.
speaker1: someone oughta sell tickets.
speaker2: sure, i'd buy one.
speaker2: ...that buford's a sly one. already knows his abcs. but i'm sayin', how'd ya get the kid?
speaker1: well this whole thing is just who knows who and favoritism. ed has a friend at one of the agencies.
speaker2: well maybe she can do something for me'n dot. see there's something wrong with m'semen. say, that reminds me! what you gonna call him?
speaker1: uh, ed-ed jr.
speaker2: thought you said he was a boy.
speaker1: well, as in edward. just like that name.
speaker2: yeah, it's a good one... course i don't really need another kid, but dottie says these-here are gettin' too big to cuddle. say, that reminds me!
speaker2: mind ya don't cutchaseff, mordecai...

speaker1: ...and then there's diphtheria- tetanus, what they call dip-tet. you gotta get him dip-tet boosters yearly or else he'll get lockjaw and night vision. then there's the smallpox vaccine, chicken pox and measles, and if your kid's like ours you gotta take all those shots first to get him to take 'em. who's your pediatrician, anyway? 
speaker2: we ain't exactly fixed on one yet. have we hi?
speaker2: ...no, i guess we don't have one yet.
speaker1: well you just gotta have one! you just gotta have one this instant!
speaker2: yeah, what if the baby gets sick, honey?
speaker1: hi, even if he don't get sick he's gotta have his dip-tet!
speaker2: he's gotta have his dip-tet, honey.
speaker3: ...uh-huh.
speaker1: you started his bank accounts?
speaker2: have we done that honey? we gotta do that honey. what's that for, dot?
speaker1: that-there's for his orthodonture and his college. you soak his thumb in iodine you might get by without the orthodonture, but it won't knock any off the college.
speaker1: ...reilly, take that diaper off your head and put it back on your sister!... anyway, you probably got the life insurance all squared away.
speaker2: you done that yet honey?
speaker1: you gotta do that, hi! ed here's got her hands full with that little angel!
speaker3: yes ma'am.
speaker1: what would ed and the angel do if a truck came along and splattered your brains all over the interstate? where would you be then?
speaker2: yeah honey, what if you get run over?
speaker1: or you got carried off by a twister?

speaker1: hear about the person of the polish persuasion he walks into a bar holdin' a pile of in his hands, says "look what i almost stepped in." 
speaker2: ...yeah, that's funny all right...
speaker1: ya right it's funny! man, what's the matter?
speaker2: i dunno... maybe it's wife, kids, family life... i mean are you, uh, satisfied glen? don't y'ever feel suffocated? like, like there's somethin' big pressin' down...
speaker1: eeeeeyep... i do know the feelin'.
speaker2: dunno-
speaker1: and i told dottie to lose some weight but she don't wanna listen!
speaker1: ...no man, i know what you mean. you got all kinds a responsibilities now. you're married, ya got a kid, looks like your whole life's set down and where's the excitement?
speaker2: yeah glen, i guess that's it.
speaker1: okay! that's the disease, but there is a cure.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: sure; doctor glen is tellin' ya you can heal thyself.
speaker2: what do i gotta do?
speaker1: well you just gotta broaden your mind a little bit. i mean say i asked you, what do you think about dot?
speaker2: fine woman you got there.
speaker1: okay. now it might not look like it, but lemme tell you something: she's a hellcat.
speaker2: that right?

speaker1: but what's that got to do with- 
speaker2: don't rush me!
speaker2: now the thing about dot is, she thinks- and she's told me this-
speaker2: ...she thinks... you're cute.
speaker1: ...yeah...?
speaker2: i'm crappin' you negative! and i could say the same about ed!
speaker1: what're you talkin' about, glen?
speaker2: what'm i talkin' about?! i'm talkin' about sex, boy! what the hell're you talkin' about?! you know, "l'amour"?! i'm talkin' me'n dot are swingers! as in "to swing"! wife-swappin'! what they call nowadays open marriage!
speaker2: i'm talkin' about the revolution! i'm talkin' about-

speaker1: keep your hands off my wife! 
speaker2: man!
speaker2: ...i was only tryin' to help!
speaker1: keep your hands off my wife!
speaker3: with hi pursuing in the background.
speaker2: you're crazy! i feel pity for you, man! you-

speaker1: we finally go out with some decent people and you break his nose. that ain't too funny, hi. 
speaker2: his kids seemed to think it was funny.
speaker1: well they're just kids, you're a grown man with responsibilities. whatever possessed you?
speaker2: he was provokin' me when i popped him.
speaker1: how'd he do that?
speaker2: ...never mind.
speaker1: but hi, he's your foreman, he's just gonna fire you now.
speaker2: i expect he will.
speaker1: and where does that leave me and nathan jr.?
speaker2: with a man for a husband.
speaker1: that ain't no answer.
speaker2: honey, that's the only answer.
speaker2: ...nathan needs some huggies. i'll be out directly.
speaker2: ...mind you stay strapped in.

speaker1: "not by the hair of my chinny-chin- chin." then i'll huff and i'll puff...' 
speaker1: "...and i'll blow your house in..."

speaker1: you 
speaker2: better hurry it up. i'm in dutch with the wife.

speaker1: driving. she hears distant gunshots. 
speaker2: that son of a hold on, nathan. we're gonna go pick up daddy.

speaker1: that's private property, son. come back out to the street and reveal yourself to officer steensma and officer scott - that's me. 
speaker2: hi vaults a fence to land in the backyard.

speaker1: that son of a 
speaker1: ...lookie nathan, a police car...
speaker1: ...say, that looks like bill steensma.

speaker1: son, you got a on your head. 
speaker2: just drive fast...
speaker2: ...and don't stop till i tell ya.
speaker2: ...honey!
speaker3: ed's car is braking and spinning into a u-turn.
speaker4: leaning out the window.
speaker2: mind the baby now!

speaker1: maybe you better. 
speaker2: stepped on hard. the brakes scream.

speaker1: thank you honey, you really didn't have to do this- 
speaker2: you you're actin' like a mad dog!
speaker1: turn left, honey.
speaker2: what if me'n the baby'd been picked up? nathan jr. would a been accessory to armed robbery!
speaker1: nawww honey, it ain't armed robbery if the gun ain't loaded-
speaker2: what kind of home life is this for a toddler?! you're supposed to be an example!
speaker1: now honey, i never postured myself as the three-piece suit type - turn left, dear.
speaker2: we got a child now, everything's changed!
speaker1: well nathan jr. accepts me for what i am and i think you better had, too. you know, honey, i'm okay you're okay? that - there's what it is.
speaker2: i know, but honey -
speaker1: see i come from a long line of frontiersmen and - here it is, turn here dear - frontiersmen and outdoor types.
speaker2: i'm not gonna live this way, hi. it just ain't family life!
speaker1: well... it ain't ozzie and harriet.

speaker1: tomorrow morning. now i got nothing against you personally... 
speaker1: ...but you're wanted by the authorities and you're a bad influence in this household, in my opinion.
speaker2: well ma'am... we sure didn't mean to influence anyone.
speaker3: and if we did, we apologize.
speaker1: i'm goin' in to town tomorrow to see about some shots for the baby. when i come back you better be gone or i'll kick you out myself. she storms into the bedroom and slams the door.
speaker3: ...what's he need, his dip-tet?
speaker4: i'm awful sorry boys, but when ed gets mad, you know, when she gets an idea...
speaker2: well there ain't a thing to apologize for, h.i...
speaker2: ...it seems pretty clear what the situation is here.
speaker3: yeah, i guess the missus wants us to clear out.
speaker2: now h.i., you'll pardon me for sayin' so, but i get the feelin' that this- here...
speaker2: ...ain't exactly workin' out.
speaker4: well now ed's generally a real sweetheart, i-
speaker2: and as per usual, i wouldn't be surprised if the source of the marital friction was financial.
speaker4: well, matter of fact, i did lose my job today-
speaker3: come on hi. you're young, you got your health - what do you want with a job?
speaker2: but look, i'd rather light a candle than curse your darkness. as you know, evelle'n i never go anywhere without a reason... and here we are in your little domicile. we come to invite you in on a score.
speaker3: a bank, hi.
speaker4: aw boys, i don't-
speaker2: i know you're partial to convenience stores but, h.i., the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery.
speaker3: it's like doc schwartz says: you gotta have a little ambition. why we just heard on the news how somebody snatched off one of the arizona babies. now there's someone thinkin' big.
speaker2: and here you are sittin' around on your playin' house with a - don't get me wrong, h.i., with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type.
speaker4: well now that ain't really any of your-
speaker2: just lookahere...
speaker3: picture of el dorado, hi.
speaker2: though the locals call it the farmers and mechanics bank of lagrange. looks like a hayseed bank and, tell you the truth, it is a hayseed bank. except the last friday of every financial quarter there's more cash in that bank than flies at a barbecue.
speaker3: and guess what day it is tomorrow?
speaker2: ya see, h.i., it's when the hayseeds come in to cash their farm subsidy checks.
speaker3: a-one information.
speaker2: got it in the joint from a guy named lawrence spivey, one of nixon's undersecretaries of agriculture.
speaker3: he's in for solicitin' from a state trooper.
speaker2: ordinarily we don't associate with that class of person, but...
speaker2: ...he was tryin' to make brownie points with some of the boys.
speaker4: boys, i can't -
speaker5: we need someone handy with a scatter- gun to cover the hayseeds while we get the cash.
speaker2: y'understand, h.i., if this works out it's just the beginning of a spree across the entire southwest proper. we keep goin' 'till we can retire - or we get caught.
speaker3: either way we're fixed for life.
speaker4: boys, it's a kind offer, but you're suggesting i just up'n leave ed. now that'd be pretty cowardly, wouldn't it.
speaker2: would it? think about it, h.i. seems to me, stayin' here, y'ain't doin' her any good. and y'ain't bein' true to your own nature.

speaker1: still creeping in. 
speaker2: maybe it's my upbringing; maybe it's just that my genes got screwed up - i don't know...

speaker1: but the events of the last day have showed, amply, that i don't have the strength of character to raise up a family... 
speaker1: ...in the manner befitting a responsible adult, and not like the wild man from borneo.

speaker1: ...i will love you always, truly and deeply. but i fear that if i stay i would only bring bad trouble... 
speaker1: ...on the heads of you and nathan jr.

speaker1: i feel the thunder gathering even now; if i leave, hopefully, it will leave with me. 
speaker1: i cannot tarry...

speaker1: still creeping in. 
speaker2: better i should go, send you money, and let you curse my name. your loving... herbert.

speaker1: similarly producing a long wooden match. 
speaker2: biting down on the cigar.

speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. arizona, he just barged in... 
speaker1: ...should i call dewayne?
speaker2: no, why wake the security guard. i'll take care a this.

speaker1: you got flies. 
speaker2: i doubt it. this place's climate- controlled, all the windows are sealed. who the are you?
speaker1: name of leonard smalls. my friends call me lenny...
speaker1: ...only i ain't got no friends.
speaker2: stop, you'll make me bust out crying. listen leonard, you want some furniture or a shitbox, they're out on the sales floor.
speaker3: nooo, i ain't a customer, i'm a manhunter. ordinarily. though i do hunt babies, on occasion. hear you got one you can't put your hand to.
speaker2: what do you know about it?
speaker3: wal, that's my business. i'm a tracker- part hopi indian, some say part hound dog. when some skips bail, crashes outta the joint, i'm the man they call.
speaker2: mister, i got the cops, the state troopers and the federal-b-i already lookin' for my boy. now if you got information i strongly advise-
speaker3: cop won't find your boy. cop couldn't find his own if it had a bell on it. wanna find an outlaw, call an outlaw. wanna find a dunkin donuts, call a cop.
speaker2: smalls, first off, take your feet off m'furniture. second off, it's widely known i posted a twenty grand reward for my boy. if you can find him, claim it. short of that what do we got to talk about?
speaker3: price. fair price. and that ain't whatever you say it is; fair price is what the market'll bear. now there are people, mind you, there are people in this land, who'll pay a lot more'n twenty grand for a healthy baby.
speaker2: what're you after?
speaker3: give you an idea, when i was a lad i m'self fetched twenty-five thousand on the black market. and them's 1954 dollars. i'm sayin, fair price. for fifty grand i'll track him, find him-

speaker1: ...and the people that took him... 
speaker1: ...i'll kick their butts.
speaker1: ...no extra charge.
speaker2: and if i don't pay?
speaker1: oh i'll get your boy regardless. cause if you don't pay, the market will.
speaker2: you wanna know what i think? i think you're an evil man. i think this is nothin' but a screw job. i think it's a shakedown. i think you're the one took nathan jr. and my fine friend, i think you're the one gonna get his kicked...
speaker2: i think i'm on the phone to the cops right now, and i-

speaker1: up and attem, h.i. today is the first day of the rest of your life... 
speaker2: ...and already you're it up. hi looks up.
speaker2: come on, the missus'll be back from town soon.
speaker3: where's the baby?
speaker2: bedroom, in his crib.
speaker1: he's sawin' toothpicks, he'll be fine.
speaker1: ...you expectin' anybody?
speaker3: no. you two stay outta sight.
speaker3: 

speaker1: morning glen. 
speaker2: i ain't comin' in if ya don't mind. i'll just keep my distance.
speaker1: i didn't invite you in, glen.
speaker2: well don't even bother. first off, you're fired - and that's official.
speaker1: i kinda figured that, glen.
speaker2: well that ain't why i'm here neither. no sir. you're in a whole shitload of trouble, my friend.
speaker1: why don't you just calm down, glen.
speaker2: why don't you make me?! know that little baby you got in there? remember him? i know what his real name is!
speaker1: wanna keep your voice down, glen?
speaker2: i'll pitch my voice wherever i please! his name ain't hi jr.! his name ain't ed jr.! but it's junior an right! yes sir, it's nathan jr.! hi takes one step down holding out a calming hand.
speaker2: ...stay away from me, mcdunnough!
speaker2: ...sure, you're an awful big man when you got somethin' around to clobber a guy with!
speaker1: i ain't a big man.
speaker2: that's right! and now you're at my mercy!
speaker2: ...i'm your worst nightmare! i wanted to just turn you in for the re-ward. but dot, she wants something to cuddle. so it looks like that baby's gonna be glen jr. from now on!
speaker2: ...i'll give you a day to break the news to ed...
speaker2: ...dot'll be by tomorrow to pick him up.
speaker2: ...it's either that or jail. oh and say, that reminds me! you'll find a doctor bill in the mail in a few days. i recommend you pay it! and the car squeals off.

speaker1: what's goin' on here. 
speaker2: you know what's goin' on, h.i. it's

speaker1: i know you're worried honey but believe me, there ain't a thing to worry about. we're gonna get him back, there just ain't no question about that... 
speaker1: ...we'll get him back, that's just all there is to it. and you wanna know another thing?
speaker1: ...i'm gonna be a better person from here on out. and that's final, i mean that's absolutely the way it's gonna be, that's official. you were right and i was wrong...
speaker1: ...a blind man could tell you that. now they ain't gonna hurt him, they're just in it for the score...
speaker1: ...but i ain't like that no more, i'm a changed man. you were right and i was wrong. we got a family here and i'm gonna start acting responsibly...
speaker1: ...so let's go honey...
speaker1: ...let's go get nathan jr.

speaker1: i luuuuv to drive. 
speaker2: you said somethin' there, partner.
speaker1: ...yessir, i figure with the ransom and this bank, you'n i'll be sittin' in the fabled catbird seat.
speaker2: uh, gale... junior had a, uh, accident.
speaker1: what's that, pardner?
speaker2: he had a little accident.
speaker1: wuddya mean, he looks okay.
speaker2: no, ya see... movin' though we are, he just had hisself a rest stop.
speaker1: well it's perfectly natural.
speaker2: hey gale!
speaker1: what now?
speaker2: ...he smiled at me!

speaker1: welp. around the butt, then up over the groin area- 
speaker2: i know where they go, old timer. i mean do i need pins or fasteners?
speaker1: well no, they got those tape-ettes already on there, it's self-contained and fairly explanatory.
speaker2: uh-huh...
speaker2: ...these blow up into funny shapes at all?
speaker1: well no. unless round is funny.
speaker2: all right, i'll take these too. now you lie down back there-
speaker1: yessir!
speaker2: and don't you move till you've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero. i'll be back to check - see y'ain't cheatin'.
speaker1: you the diaper burglar?
speaker2: looks like i'm one of 'em.

speaker1: get the door, will ya? 
speaker2: he's a real cheerful little critter once he warms up to ya.
speaker1: hurry up gale...
speaker1: i don't know how high this one can count.

speaker1: i got him some baby grub... baby wipes... diapers, disposable... packet of balloons- 
speaker2: they blow up into funny shapes at all?
speaker1: no, just- gale is looking around, puzzled.
speaker2: say, where's junior?
speaker1: wuddya mean, didn't you put him in?!
speaker2: no, i thought- the two men look at each other.

speaker1: they look at each other in horror. 
speaker2: where'd we leave him?!
speaker3: coming off the accelerator.
speaker4: screaming as he watches the foot:

speaker1: ...seven hunnert ninety-one one thousand, seven hunnert - ah... 
speaker1: seven hunnert ninety - ought one thousand! seven hundred eighty -

speaker1: promise we ain't never gonna give him up, gale! we ain't never gonna let him go! 
speaker2: we'll never give him up, evelle. he's our little gale jr. now.

speaker1: ...ed, i realize i can't be much of a comfort to you. but lemme just say this... 
speaker1: you'll feel a whole lot better when-
speaker2: i don't wanna feel better.
speaker1: honey-
speaker2: i don't care about myself anymore. i don't care about us anymore. i just want nathan junior back safe.
speaker1: i know that-
speaker2: if we don't get him back safe, i don't wanna go on livin'. and even if we do, i don't wanna go on livin' with you. this shuts hi up.
speaker2: ...i guess i still love you hi; i know i do. i ain't even blaming you. the whole thing was crazy and the whole thing was my idea.
speaker1: well, factually, i myself bear a very large-
speaker2: lemme finish. since those jailbirds took little nathan i been doin' some thinking, and i ain't too proud of myself. even if mrs. arizona had more'n she could handle, i was a police officer sworn to uphold the constitution of the united states -
speaker1: now waitaminute honey, you resigned before we-
speaker2: that ain't the point, hi. we don't deserve nathan jr. any more'n those jailbirds do. and if i'm as selfish and irresponsible as you-
speaker1: y'ain't that bad, honey.
speaker2: if i'm as bad as you, what good're we to each other. you'n me's just a fool's paradise.
speaker3: baking in the noonday sun.

speaker1: there she is. 
speaker2: yep. welp...
speaker2: ...let's do her.
speaker1: waitaminute. what do we do with gale jr.?
speaker2: wuddya mean, he waits here.
speaker1: are you crazy?! he can't wait here by hisself. supposin' we get killed in there - it could be hours before he's discovered.

speaker1: all right you hayseeds, it's a stick- up! everbody freeze! everbody down on the ground! 
speaker2: well which is it young fella? you want i should freeze or get down on the ground? mean to say, iffen i freeze, i can't rightly drop. and iffen i drop, i'm a gonna be in motion. ya see -

speaker1: yessir. 
speaker2: everone down on the ground!
speaker3: y'all can just forget that part about freezin'.
speaker2: that is until they get down there.
speaker3: y'all hear that?
speaker2: wanna fill that sack, pardner? we got -
speaker2: ...where'd all the tellers go? there is no one behind the counter.
speaker4: we're down here, sir.
speaker3: they're down on the ground like you commanded, gale.
speaker2: i told you not to use m'damn name! can't you even try to keep from forget'n that?!
speaker3: not even yer code name?
speaker2: oh yeah... m'code name.
speaker3: y'all hear that?
speaker2: all right now everone, we're just about ready to begin the robbery proper...

speaker1: all right now everyone, you know how this works: y'all stay flattened for ten full minutes... 
speaker1: ...we might come back in five to check. that's for us to know and y'a to find out.
speaker2: anyone found bipedal in five wears his for a hat.

speaker1: that old timer threw off my concentration. otherwise it would a gone smoother. 
speaker2: we done okay. yessir. this ought to split nicely three ways.
speaker1: goddamnit! ya never leave a man behind!

speaker1: goddamnit h.i., ain't we got enough to contend with? 
speaker2: where's the baby?
speaker3: i think we left him on the roof of the... he must be back at the...
speaker1: let us come with you!
speaker1: ...he's our baby too!

speaker1: lenny is approaching. under her breath: 
speaker2: what is he?
speaker3: ...d'you see him too?

speaker1: as ed closes in. 
speaker2: gimme that baby, you warthog from hell!

speaker1: raising an arm to stab. 
speaker2: drilled by hi's bullet, drops its knife.
speaker3: quick as a flash hurling the other knife at hi.
speaker4: as the knife stings the gun out of his hand.

speaker1: roaring down the alley. 
speaker2: as the bike approaches behind her.

speaker1: grabbing hi by the shirtfront. 
speaker2: swings down and brass knuckles appear on it.

speaker1: reacting. 
speaker2: reacting to hi reacting. he looks down.

speaker1: starting to run. 
speaker2: finally freeing his hands.
speaker1: diving behind the parked car.

speaker1: the is goin' on? 
speaker1: ...get away from there.
speaker1: waitaminute...
speaker1: ...i ain't through with you. what're you doin' creepin' around here in the dark? you in with smalls?
speaker2: ...scuse me?
speaker1: leonard smalls, big fella rides a harley, dresses like a rock star?
speaker2: no sir, that's who we saved him from. it's a long story.
speaker1: suppose you tell it.
speaker2: well, sir, in a re-ward situation, they usually say no questions asked.
speaker1: do they. hi shrugs.
speaker1: ...all right, boy, i guess you got a re-ward coming. twenty thousand dollars...
speaker1: ...or, if you need home furnishings, i can give you a fine of credit at any of my stores. fact, that's the way i'd rather handle it, for tax reasons...
speaker2: well- nathan throws his hands up in the air.
speaker1: but it's up to you.
speaker2: tell you the truth, i think we'd prefer the ca-
speaker3: we don't want no reward.
speaker3: ...we didn't bring him back for money.
speaker1: well, we could work it that way too.
speaker3: could i just look at him a little bit more?
speaker1: be my guest, young lady... but would you mind tellin' me exactly how you-
speaker1: ...you took him, didn't you? wasn't that biker a'tal.
speaker2: i took him, sir, my wife had nothin' to do with it. i crept in yon window and-
speaker3: we both did it. we didn't wanna hurt him any; i just wanted to be a mama.
speaker2: it wasn't for money or nothin'. we just figured you had more'n you could handle, babywise. but i'm the one committed the actual crime sir, if you need to call the authorities-
speaker1: shutup boy, no one's callin' the authorities if there's no harm done.
speaker2: thank you sir.
speaker3: thank you sir.
speaker1: aw just tell me - just tell me why you did it.
speaker3: we can't have our own.
speaker1: ...well lookit. if you can't have kids you gotta just keep tryin' and hope medical science catches up with you. like florence'n me - it caught up with a vengeance. and hell, even if it never does, you still got each other.
speaker2: sir, those're kind words. but i think the wife and me are splittin' up...
speaker2: ...her point of view is we're both kinda selfish and unrealistic, so we ain't too good for each other.
speaker1: well ma'am, i don't know much but i do know human bein's. you brought back my boy so you must have your good points too. i'd sure hate to think of florence leavin' me - i do love her so...
speaker1: ...you can go out the way you came in...
speaker1: ...and before you go off and do another foolish thing, like busting up, i suggest you sleep on it...
speaker1: ...at least one night.

speaker1: ...i dreamt i was as light as the ether, a floating spirit visiting things to come... 
speaker2: craning down toward hi.
speaker1: the shades and shadows of the people in my life wrastled their way into my slumber.

speaker1: i dreamt that gale and evelle had decided to return to prison... 
speaker1: ...probably that's just as well. i don't mean to sound superior, and they're a swell couple guys, but...
speaker1: ...maybe they weren't ready yet to come out into the world.
speaker1: and then i dreamed on, into the future, to a christmas morn in the arizona home...

speaker1: i saw glen, a few years later, still havin' no luck gettin' the cops to listen to his wild tales about me'n ed... 
speaker1: ...maybe he threw in one pollack joke too many...
speaker1: ...i don't know.

speaker1: and still i dreamed on... 
speaker1: ...further into the future than i'd ever dreamed before.

speaker1: ...watching nathan jr.'s progress from afar... 
speaker1: ...taking pride in his accomplishments as if he were our own...
speaker1: ...wondering if he ever thought of us.
speaker1: ...and hoping that maybe we'd broadened his horizons a little, even if he couldn't remember just how they'd got broadened.

speaker1: ...and this was cloudier 'cause it was years, years away. 
speaker1: ...but i saw an old couple bein' visited by their children - and all their grandchildren too. and the old couple wasn't screwed up, and neither were their kids or their grandkids. and i don't know, you tell me. this whole dream, was it wishful thinking? was i just fleein' reality, like i know i'm liable to do?

speaker1: ...but me'n ed, we can be good too... 
speaker1: ...and it seemed real. it seemed like us. and it seemed like well... our home... if not arizona, then a land, not too far away, where all parents are strong and wise and capable, and all children are happy and beloved... i dunno, maybe it was utah.

