speaker1: written like this. one word. small e. capital x, capital z. 
speaker1: existenz. it's new, it's from antenna research, and it's here, right now.
speaker1: my name is wittold levi, my friends call me witt - and i'm the project manager for existenz. i recognize some familiar faces - that's all right, that's all right. we won't throw you out. we encourage consumer loyalty, and we want you to help us with our product testing. we're a team, antenna and you.
speaker1: those of you who have come to our invited seminars before will know that i normally lead the group through our new games, but

speaker1: tonight, it won't be me. no, for the test launch of existenz by antenna, we have brought you a seminar leader who is rather special. 
speaker1: yes, it is. the world's greatest game designer is here, in person, to lead you, the first test enclave, through her newest creation, existenz by antenna...
speaker1: i give you, the game-pod goddess herself - allegra geller!
speaker2: the world of games is in a kind of a trance. people are programmed to accept so little, but the possibilities are so great.
speaker2: you probably thought that tonight, we were going to test a new game that i designed.
speaker2: but there is no new game to test, at least, not in the usual sense.
speaker2: no, no, it's going to be much better than you expected, because existenz is not just a game. it's an entirely new game system. antenna research and i developed it together - the existenz system by antenna - and it involves a whole lot of new toys, which you are going to be the first to try out.
speaker1: metaflesh.
speaker1: written like this. one word. capital m, capital f. metaflesh is what our new toys are made of - the metaflesh game-pod, only from antenna research. it connects with any industry standard bioport, which i know you all have or you wouldn't be here... .using, however, a very non- standard connecting device which we call...
speaker1: .we call an umbycord. spelled like this.
speaker1: i guess you can tell i started off as a schoolteacher.
speaker3: but i never had anything quite so fun or so revolutionary to teach as what allegra and i are going to teach you all tonight.
speaker1: are the metaflesh game-pods by antenna research ready?

speaker1: and how many of these precious prototypes did we manage to bring with us? 
speaker2: twenty-one, mr. levi.
speaker1: twenty-one? i thought we had an even two dozen.
speaker3: the first three we opened were...
speaker1: really? any chance that some of the others...?
speaker2: we think we're clean.

speaker1: hold it. not so fast. 
speaker2: oh, i hope i'm not too late.
speaker1: it's just the first wave. you can be part of the second wave. ok, joel dichter. put your arms up. i have to scan you. metal and heavy synthetics can't come in.
speaker2: a weapons check?
speaker1: more for recording devices. lotta money invested in these games. industrial espionage happens.
speaker2: i brought my game-pod. it's got original marway tissue architecture. it's kind of obsolete but i was hoping,...

speaker1: even though i couldn't afford the antenna fifteen upgrade, i figured out a method of virtual porting that i thought might... 
speaker2: you won't need it tonight. everything's provided for.
speaker1: migod! is that who i think it is?
speaker3: yeah, that's her. she's something, isn't she?
speaker1: but why would a star like her come to a product seminar in a little one-horse town like this?
speaker2: this is where the real people live, joel. her real fans, like you.
speaker1: yeah, well, you said it. just like me.
speaker4: everything's in order. are you ready, allegra?

speaker1: sure. this is my favourite part. 
speaker1: i'm ready to download existenz by antenna research into you all now. i'm warning you, it's going to be a wild ride, but don't panic no matter what happens. i'll see you all back here in no time at all.
speaker2: she seems to be very shy. it never occurred to me that a big star would be shy.
speaker3: she spends most of her time alone in a room designing her games. i think she'd like it best if she never had to show them to anybody.
speaker2: really? she doesn't enjoy all the adulation?
speaker3: she hates having to port in with her fans. it's too intimate.
speaker2: then why does she do it?
speaker3: we make her do it.

speaker1: that's what i mean. 
speaker2: why?

speaker1: are you with us or did an independent security company send you? 
speaker2: me? oh, i'm with your own management training program. i want to end up in marketing and public relations. the only thing i know about security is how to switch this thing on.
speaker1: well, for example, we've spent a fortune developing existenz, but we all know it's a risky project. she might have to make changes. it's the only way we can convince her that there might be a problem.
speaker2: a problem with her new game?
speaker1: existenz is a lot more than a game.
speaker2: yeah, right, it's a game system.
speaker1: and we're worried that it's too intellectual, too complex, too weird, too artsy. that argument ; never bothers her until she faces her fans. she hates to be rejected in the flesh, so we make her come out sometimes to take the heat.
speaker2: 4 i've heard that she's very sensitive.
speaker2: what are they doing?
speaker1: it's the new antenna research theme song. we thought this would be a good way to launch it. everybody who plays existenz is going to be very familiar with that tune.
speaker2: catchy.
speaker3: death to existenz! death to antenna research! death to the demoness allegra geller!

speaker1: no! don't do it! 
speaker2: get her out of here! save her! there might be more of them! go on!
speaker1: me? me take her?
speaker1: she's coming with me! i'm responsible for her! she's supposed to come with me!
speaker3: am i? with you?
speaker1: yeah, you're coming with me.

speaker1: let's take my limo. 
speaker2: no, no!
speaker1: why no?
speaker2: i don't trust the driver!
speaker1: you drive,
speaker3: what's the commotion, miss geller? say, are you all right?
speaker1: we need this vehicle, and we need it without you. but with the keys.
speaker3: i can't do that. i can't abandon my vehicle.
speaker1: get out, frances. you can say you were hijacked.
speaker3: it'll take more than a dead squirrel to get me out of this seat.
speaker3: you have to push the shift lever down to get it into reverse.
speaker1: thanks, frances.

speaker1: i normally like the countryside, don't you? normally, the country is relaxing and calm. 
speaker2: only if you don't really know what's going on.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: there is great stress and anger and violence in the countryside. thousands of life forms all screaming me me me and trying to kill and dominate and devour the other life forms. it's terrifying and exhausting.
speaker1: well, i like the countryside.
speaker2: that's good, `cause you might end up spending a lot of time here.
speaker1: i might?
speaker2: sure. if you go back home to the city, they'll probably be waiting for you.
speaker1: they?
speaker2: yeah. my assassins. they'd want to have a little talk with you about where i am.
speaker1: i was hoping that was just one crazy guy.
speaker2: did you hear the way he screamed at me? he wasn't alone.
speaker1: everybody likes a conspiracy. it's more satisfying than just one crazy guy doing one crazy thing.
speaker1: well, what are we going to do out here? do you know your way around? you know any country people?
speaker2: not country people. games people. the countryside's full of games development people, project co- ordinators, little factories - you name it.
speaker1: that's weird. i never knew that.
speaker2: the city's full of bad microwaves, bad thermals, bad electro-optics. you can't shield from it anymore. you can't get true readings. the whole industry moved out of the city years ago.
speaker1: so you know your way around. we can hide out.
speaker2: maybe. but it seems i have some enemies i didn't know i had. "death to allegra geller." how'd you like to hear somebody with a gun screaming, "death to ted pikul"?
speaker1: wow. hey, how'd you know my name?
speaker2: you're labelled.
speaker1: oh. yeah.
speaker1: how did you know how to fire that, gun? i've never seen anything like it.
speaker2: it has a trigger. i pulled it.
speaker1: can i see it?
speaker2: later. i think i'm gonna use it in my next game. if there ever is a next game.
speaker1: migod, you're bleeding. i forgot you got hit.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: it's my pink-fone. i'm not sure i should answer it.
speaker2: answer it.
speaker1: ted pikul.

speaker1: you're kidding me. you're kidding me! 1 can't believe it. i can't do that. no, how can i do that? well, i'm not really sure where we are because... 
speaker1: what? can i have my pink-tone back?
speaker1: what did you do that for? that was our lifeline to civilization.
speaker2: that was a rangefinder. as long as you have that, they know where you are.
speaker1: they? you mean head office?
speaker2: i mean anybody.
speaker2: i heard what levi said to you. he said, "we have enemies in our own house." he said it as he was dying.
speaker1: i don't think he died. i mean, do you? i think he maybe fainted...
speaker1: that was alex kindred, head of publicity and marketing, at antenna hq...
speaker1: .on that very expensive pink- fone you threw away.
speaker1: he said that some bizarre fanatical group called the anti- existenzialists has put a price of 5 million dollars on your head, payable to anybody who kills you. it's been released to all the media now. everybody knows about it.
speaker2: anti-existentialists?
speaker1: no. anti-existenzialists. capital x, capital z. they somehow found out about existenz and they want to kill you for creating it. they say that the existenz game system will "finally destroy reality", or something totally nuts like that.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it makes sense to you? you're not suprised?
speaker2: i hear things. it's hard to surprise me.
speaker2: and what else?
speaker1: kindred said that i'm your bodyguard and the company is holding me totally responsible for your safety.
speaker2: pikul, why don't you have a gun with you?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you're not armed. they told me you were my security but you have no weaponry.
speaker1: who told you that? i'm just a marketing trainee. my clinic master thought i'd learn something about marketing if i moonlighted as a security guard on one of your test previews.
speaker2: i'm marked for death and they send me on the road with a pr nerd.
speaker1: marked for death!
speaker2: don't sweat it, pikul. i'll handle it. we just have to disappear for a while. and right now, we have to stop.
speaker1: we do? why?
speaker2: so we can have an intimate moment together.

speaker1: i got it. wow. did somebody bite you? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: what i just dug out of you. it's a tooth. a human tooth.
speaker2: lemme see that weirdo pistol.
speaker2: yep. the bullets are human teeth.
speaker1: that thing was designed to get past any kind of metal or synthetics detector. it's all flesh and bone.
speaker2: i suppose the smaller caliber pistols would have to fire baby teeth. the tooth fairy could go i into the arms business.
speaker1: that guy really came there tonight just to kill you.

speaker1: the whole gamesworld is in a kind of trance. 
speaker2: yes. i remember you said that at the church.

speaker1: expectations. they have no idea what amazing things could be theirs. 
speaker2: where were you just now? what were you doing?
speaker1: i was wandering through existenz - the new system, i mean. i like it in there. of course, without another player you're only a tourist. it's frustrating.
speaker2: why won't you let me contact antenna? they've got to be going crazy, wondering what's happened to you. i mean, it's not like we've done something wrong. we just ran because we didn't know how many of them there were, right? i think we owe it to antenna to let them know you're all right, to get them to send somebody to help you who knows what he's doing... and besides, i can't... i can't just keep doing this, whatever it is, you know, forever, not having any idea when it's going to be...
speaker2: hey, what are you doing?
speaker1: where's your bioport? don't tell me you were never fitted. i can't believe it.
speaker2: no, i was never fitted with a bioport. what do you care?
speaker1: you're hoping to get into the biz and you've never played one of my games. you've never played any game. that means you have no idea
speaker3: what a genius i am.
speaker2: my clinic master told me i don't need to play a game to know how to sell it.
speaker1: posturing. you don't play my games, you don't work for antenna research, i'll make sure of that.
speaker2: look, i've been dying to play your games. but i have this - phobia about having my body penetrated - surgically. you know what i mean.
speaker1: i'm not so sure i do.
speaker2: getting a bioport fitted... i dunno. i can't do it. it's too freaky. makes my skin crawl.
speaker1: c'mon. they just pop your spine with a little hydro-gun. shoot the port-plug into it. they do it at malls, like getting your ears pierced.
speaker2: yeah, sure. with only an infinitesimal chance of permanent spinal paralysis. i've read all about it.
speaker1: it's your chosen profession, geek.
speaker1: there's an intimacy involved in playing existenz that is beyond description. it has to be experienced. and frankly, the two-player version is the most exquisitely intense. wouldn't you like to play with me?
speaker2: well, yeah, of course, but... let me, uh, let me call antenna...
speaker1: they wouldn't want to talk to you if they knew you had never had a bioport installed. it's company policy, you know. they want you to be passionate about your work.
speaker1: besides, once you're ported, there's no end to the games you can play.
speaker2: you can't seriously want to play games now. not here. not while we're being hunted down by crazy people. _
speaker1: my baby here took a huge hit in the church, pikul. you see how she's quivering?
speaker2: it... she, yes, she's quivering.

speaker1: out just as the game architecture was being downloaded from her to all those slave pods... that's a very vulnerable time for her. she could be crying out for help right here, right now. 
speaker1: the only way i can tell if everything's ok - the game's not been contaminated, the pod, my baby, is not about to be crippled for life because of my negligence - the only way is to play existenz with somebody friendly.
speaker2: sure, all right.

speaker1: anything else i can do for you? 
speaker2: well, gas, you could check your bioport-plugs.
speaker1: the what? the sparkplugs?
speaker2: you heard me. my friend here has a bioport problem.
speaker1: a bioport, now, that's a sort of a hole in your spine, isn't it? lotta `round here, but that's generally it. i don't know why you'd be talking to me about that, lady.
speaker2: sure you do.
speaker1: allegra geller. you changed my life.

speaker1: what was your life like before? 
speaker2: before?
speaker1: before it was changed by allegra geller.
speaker2: i operated a gas station.
speaker1: but you still operate a gas station, don't you?
speaker2: only on the most pathetic level of reality. geller's work liberated me.
speaker1: liberated?
speaker2: did you ever play her game artgod? one word, capital a, capital g?
speaker1: i don't have a bioport, remember?
speaker2: "thou, the player of the game, art god." very spiritual. funny, too. the artist. the mechanic. funny.
speaker1: those are sterile, are they?
speaker2: not to worry. they way they set things up, you could fire in a bioport in a slaughterhouse and not generate an infection.
speaker1: then why the clean overalls?
speaker2: it's a mental thing. helps me focus. the one thing you don't want to do is miss with the stud- finder.
speaker1: oh,
speaker2: the mechanic.

speaker1: we call this thing a stud-finder.' it locates the spot on your spine where the x intersects with the y. we don't want to be even a micron out of whack. that's when you get troubles. it's a little radar/sonar/laser thingee. marks you with a special range-finding dye. 
speaker2: never say dye.
speaker1: lift up your shirt and turn around.

speaker1: see, that didn't hurt, did it? 
speaker2: i didn't expect that to hurt. i expect the next part to hurt.
speaker2: yeah, that's what i expect will hurt.
speaker1: i've never crippled anyone yet.
speaker2: how many have you done?
speaker1: three. well, you'll be the third.

speaker1: what's going on, gas? 
speaker2: hell, he's acting like i'm attackin' him. people usually pay me.to do this, you know.

speaker1: that swelling doesn't last for long. tomorrow, you won't even notice it. 
speaker2: i love it. great.
speaker2: what's going on? i can't walk!
speaker3: the procedure comes with its own epidural, just like when you have a baby. kinda like instant paralysis from the waist down? that's why it didn't hurt you. it'll wear off in about twenty minutes.
speaker2: you're looking more like a butcher than a mechanic.
speaker3: things do get kinda confused these days, don't they? i'm gonna go wash up. you two make yourselves at home.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: we don't have to wait for the swelling to go down.
speaker2: you're going to port into me?
speaker1: you wanted to play my game, didn't you?
speaker2: yeah, i did, and i do, but...
speaker1: it's an instant-on world, isn't it?
speaker2: what's that for? it feels cold.
speaker1: new ports are sometimes a bit tight. wouldn't want to hurt you.
speaker2: how come bioports don't get infected? i mean, they open right into your body...
speaker1: listen to what you're saying, pikul. don't be ludicrous.
speaker2: don't you think you could call me ted?
speaker1: maybe afterwards.
speaker1: pikul! i can't believe this! i trusted you and you blew my pod! you must have neural- surged!
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i jacked you into my pod and you obviously panicked. now it's totally this is a disaster!
speaker2: i.. i was nervous, but i didn't panic.
speaker1: i was forced to trust you and you panicked and you neural-surged, and you blew my pod.
speaker2: you can get a new pod...
speaker1: pikul, in this pod is the only, the original version of existenz, an entire game system that cost thirty-eight million to develop, not including pre-release marketing costs. and i'm locked outside of my own game! i can't get it out, or me in!
speaker2: are you serious? this is the only version that exists?
speaker1: security is everything these days. it's the only one and its stuck inside and it's your fault.
speaker1: i've devoted my five most passionate years to this strange little creature. and i've never regretted it, pikul, because i knew that it was the only thing that could give my life any meaning...
speaker2: but why is it my fault? i'm telling you, i didn't, i did not neural-surge. i didn't. i didn't feel any surging.
speaker3: it isn't your fault. it's my fault.
speaker1: oh, no, gas, not you.

speaker1: i wouldn't try to use that bioport again, `cept maybe for a toaster or something. 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker1: you're worth a lot of money. if you're dead.
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker1: you know what i'm talking about. it's all over the countryside. five million for her dead body.
speaker3: but, but... she changed your life.
speaker1: yup. and now i'm gonna change hers.
speaker3: but wait... why did you install a bad port into me?
speaker1: seems there's a big bonus for killing allegra geller's latest game, or whatever it is. i think i just did that, didn't i?
speaker2: but can you kill a person? can you do that, gas? can you kill me? hide my body. contact the crazies. trust them to pay up. hand over my now-decaying, grotesque corpse. really expect them to hand over 5 mil cash? don't you ever go to the movies?
speaker1: i like your script. i want to be in it.
speaker3: oh, i think he's dead. i thought i could just distract him.
speaker2: you did distract him. plug your toaster into that hole, corpse!

speaker1: he wanted to kill you. 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: that's two people in one day who wanted to actually kill you.
speaker2: i've never been more popular.
speaker1: allegra, we need help.
speaker2: you're right. i've got to get this pod fixed.

speaker1: we're going skiing? 
speaker2: nothing in the countryside is what it seems. it's all appearance versus reality, and the reality here is something unique.

speaker1: what if somebody comes up here and really wants to ski? 
speaker2: nobody actually physically skis any more, pikul. you know that.
speaker1: i've watched some ski shows.
speaker2: yeah, right.

speaker1: my darling allegra. i am so pleased to see you here. 
speaker2: kiri vinokur, this is my bodyguard, ted pikul.
speaker1: hello, yes, i heard the ridiculous story about this fatwa against you. the company is desperately trying to find you. is it really serious? are you in danger?
speaker3: if i'm her bodyguard, then she's in grave danger.
speaker2: there have been a couple of attempts on my life already.
speaker1: no! that's unbearable. the company must stop this. they owe you every kind of protection.
speaker2: i don't know if they can do anything about it. it seems to be open season on me.
speaker4: well, you will be safe here, i can assure you of that. i will contact antenna right away and have them send some people to come and collect you.
speaker2: kiri, no, don't. you mustn't let anybody know we're here unless you have to. i can't be sure that antenna is completely safe for me.
speaker1: i understand. yes. the company draws many eccentric people into its fold. you can hide in one of the guest chalets. as long as you like. i will make sure you get fresh towels...
speaker2: .and make sure i don't lose everything i have in here.

speaker1: what did you port into? 
speaker2: pikul's bioport.
speaker1: really? that's what did all the damage?
speaker3: it was a flawed installation - my first. it... it neural-surged.
speaker1: it fried some very expensive nerve boards. see? here. these are kaput. it's a complex thing.
speaker3: nerve boards?
speaker1: we use the nervous systems of specially-bred insects to create the electronic circuits on our motherboards.
speaker1: only antenna research has it.
speaker3: wow. and where do the batteries go?
speaker1: very funny.
speaker2: he's not kidding. he's a total pr nerd.
speaker2: it ports into you, and you are the power source. your body, your nervous system. your energy. when you get tired, run down, it won't run properly.
speaker1: landry here will finish up the pod-work. meanwhile...
speaker1: let's get that nasty bioport out of you and get a nice, fresh one in there. we have guest chalets out back. you're both welcome to stay. now where did i put my bioport-plug puller..? here it is.
speaker1: lie down on that couch and pull up your shirt.

speaker1: it hurts. i think it's infected. 
speaker2: it's not infected. it's just excited. it wants action.
speaker1: but i really don't think that i want action. me, i mean. the bearer of the excited bioport. what i want is... not now. not here. i feel too... too exposed.
speaker2: my baby here has now taken three major hits, one in the church, one in the gas station, and one on the operating table. the only way i can tell if everything's ok - the game's not been contaminated, the pod's not - is to play existenz with somebody friendly. are you friendly, or are you not?
speaker1: you're telling me this thing will run off my body's energy?
speaker2: that's how they work. see? you're hummin' along already.
speaker2: all right. existenz. only from antenna. here we go.
speaker1: you've got a bit of an unfair advantage, don't you? how can i possibly compete with the designer of the system?
speaker2: you could beat the guy who invented poker, couldn't you?

speaker1: that was beautiful. i feel... just like me. is that kind of transition normal, a kind of smooth dissolve from place to place? 
speaker2: depends on the style of the game. you can get jagged, brutal cuts, slow fades, shimmering little morphs...
speaker1: this is amazing. i had no idea. we... we're still ourselves, but we're in the game. where are we?
speaker2: it's basically a game store i used to hang out in as a kid.

speaker1: we're ported into a game-pod together, remember? existenz has complete access to both our central nervous systems. its game architecture will be based on our memories, our anxieties, our preoccupations... 
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: you keep saying that. look at this. games i've never heard of. biological father. hit by a car. viral ecstasy. chinese restaurant. in viral ecstasy, you are a virus invading a specific human body. you create ingenious viral strategies to cope with the efforts of the body's immune system to destroy you..."
speaker2: wait a minute. that reminds me. what precisely is the goal of the game we're playing now? i mean, the rules, the objective... nobody's ever really said anything about what you have to do in existenz.
speaker1: the beauty of existenz is that it changes every time you play it. it adapts to the individuals who are actually playing it. the result is that you have to play the game to find out why you're playing the game.
speaker2: but that's kind of cheating, isn't it? not to say confusing.
speaker1: not at all. it's a much more organic approach to gaming than classic, arbitrary, rule- dominated games. it's the future, pikul. you'll see how natural it feels.
speaker2: look at this. could this be the future too? ever see anything like this before?

speaker1: these are delicate. you have to be careful. 
speaker2: yes. i can imagine.
speaker1: cortical systematics is the latest and the hottest. not just a new game, but a new system.
speaker3: will it work with an industry standard bioport?
speaker1: i haven't seen you two before, have i? this is my place.
speaker4: we're new in town.
speaker1: welcome to dorsey nader's game emporium. i'm dorsey nader. is there anything i can help you with?
speaker3: we're just looking.
speaker1: i have what you're looking for.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: follow me.

speaker1: who sent you? 
speaker2: it's none of your businesz who sent us. we're here, and that's all that matters.
speaker2: oh what happened? i didn't mean to say that!
speaker3: it's your character who said it. it's a kind of schizophrenic feeling, isn't it? but you'll get used to it. there are things that have to be said to advance the plot and establish the characters, and those things get said whether you want to say them or not. don't fight it. just go with it.
speaker2: but should you be saying that in front of him? nader?
speaker3: look at him.
speaker2: what's he doing?
speaker3: he's gone into a game loop, he's locked up, and he won't come out of it until you give him a proper game line of dialogue.
speaker2: this is tricky.
speaker3: start by repeating your last line. include his name so he knows you're talking.to him.

speaker1: we're here, dorsey nader, and that's all that matters. 
speaker2: you're right. that is all tha matters.
speaker1: well, nader, you said you had what we want. we're waiting.
speaker2: you're going to need these micro- pods to download your new identities. i assume that you both have had those industry standard bioports you mentioned installed.
speaker3: yes, of course, that's right. we both have bioports.
speaker3: we do, don't we?
speaker1: i assumed we did. i mean, here. in the game. of course, we might not.
speaker3: we'd better check.
speaker1: yeah, it's there. looks a little different, but it's there.
speaker3: i see what you mean.
speaker3: yes, we both have bioports.
speaker2: good. port in and this'll tell you all you need to know for now.
speaker2: i'm going to leave while you finish up here. it wouldn't be good for us all to be seen together.
speaker2: don't do anything i wouldn't do.
speaker1: i assume that nader is our entry point into the game.
speaker3: yeah. kinda disappointing.
speaker1: nader?
speaker3: yeah. not a very well-drawn character. and his dialogue was just so-so.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: do we blame ourselves for that? the bad dialogue? or would it be bad no matter who was ported in?
speaker3: the game engine is just getting used to us. it'll get more daring once it warms up.

speaker1: ok. the pods are so small they plug directly into the bioport. 
speaker1: 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: the whole pod just disappeared into your back.
speaker2: it disappeared into my back?! it... it's in my spine? it's winding its way around my spinal cord?
speaker1: don't panic, it's just a game. do you feel anything yet?
speaker2: no, i don't. not a thing. i don't feel a thing. uh, do you want me to do you?
speaker1: what the was that?
speaker2: that wasn't me. that was my game character. i wouldn't have done that. not here, anyway.
speaker1: you're right. our characters are obviously supposed to jump on each other. probably to create emotional tension when danger happens. no use fighting it.
speaker2: what about our new identities? do you feel yours yet?
speaker1: they'll take care of themselves.
speaker2: i'm very worried about my body.
speaker1: your what?
speaker2: i mean, where are our real bodies? are they all right? are they hungry? what if there's danger?
speaker1: kissing and caressing
speaker3: they're just where we left them, sitting quietly, eyes closed.
speaker2: reluctantly kissing and
speaker4: i don't know. i feel really vulnerable. disembodied.
speaker1: don't sweat it. all your senses are still operating. you'll pop right out of the game if there's a problem.

speaker1: tryin' to remember who you are? 
speaker1: hey, it works! i must be yevgeny nourish!
speaker1: and you... you are new to the trout farm.
speaker2: yes. i... i'm... very new. did you say trout farm?
speaker1: you know - raise baby trout from eggs and then stock the rivers with them.
speaker1: entire place used to be a trout farm. seems like most everything used to be something else, doesn't it?
speaker1: i you might be new but you seem to know what you're doing.
speaker2: it surprises me more than it surprises you.
speaker1: you might be new but you seem to know what you're doing.
speaker2: i, ah... i've been trained by the very best.
speaker1: so have i. where do you plan to have lunch?
speaker2: i'm new here. i have no plans for lunch.
speaker3: i suggest the chinese restaurant in the forest. everybody knows where it is. just ask.
speaker2: won't you be going there too?
speaker1: i have other plans for lunch. but i do suggest that you order the special. and don't take no for an answer.
speaker2: all right, i'll do that.
speaker4: larry?
speaker2: yes?
speaker4: they need this in the back room. they asked for you.
speaker2: what's that mean?
speaker1: it means that they want you in the back room. they need more insect boards for the pod assembly bays.
speaker2: should i just get up and go there?
speaker1: yeah. i'll take care of your incoming boards.
speaker1: remember. the chinese restaurant for lunch.
speaker2: i order the special.

speaker1: i saw you make contact, larry ashen. what did the guy on the .l assembly line say to you? 
speaker2: he told me where to have lunch.

speaker1: we have nice sea bass today. shall i bring it for everyone? 
speaker2: we want the special.
speaker2: did you hear me, chinese waiter?
speaker2: we want the special.
speaker1: the special is for special occasions. i cannot give you the special.
speaker2: but this is a special occasion. it's...
speaker2: it's her birthday.
speaker1: a birthday is a special occasion. i will therefore bring the special for everybody.
speaker2: i guess the special isn't very popular.
speaker3: i guess.
speaker2: but you know, really, don't you? you don't have to guess. i mean, it's your game, your little universe.
speaker3: i don't know. you have to understand that, to understand what we've really created with existenz.
speaker2: you're telling me, for example, that you don't know what the special is?
speaker3: correct. i don't.
speaker2: or why we ordered it.
speaker3: we ordered it because another game character told you to. that's a clue we can't ignore. but that's just basic games playing.
speaker2: i want to put the game on pause.
speaker2: the game can be paused, can't it? i mean, all games can be paused, right?
speaker3: sure, yeah, but why? what's wrong? aren't you dying to see what's special about the special?
speaker2: i'm feeling a little disconnected from my real life. i'm kind of losing touch with the texture of it, you know what i mean? i mean, i actually think there's an element of psychosis involved here. i mean, i don't know where my body really is, or where reality is, what i've actually done, or not done.
speaker3: that's a great sign. it means your nervous system is fully engaging with the game architecture. the game is a lot more fun when it starts to feel realer than real.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: existenz is paused!

speaker1: did i do that? i guess i did. 
speaker2: so how does it feel?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your real life. the one you came back for.
speaker1: just sitting here, it feels completely unreal. i'm sure you knew that would happen.
speaker2: you're stuck now, aren't you? you want to go back to the chinese restaurant because there's nothing happening here. we're safe. it's boring.
speaker1: worse than that. i'm not sure here, where we are, is real at all. this feels like the game. and you... you're beginning to t1 feel a bit like a game character to me.

speaker1: definitely not. 
speaker2: it feels like we did.
speaker1: our characters did. i'm sure it would be very different if we did.
speaker2: i... i'm actually just like that in real life. you got the real ted pikul there, in the stockroom of the game store.
speaker1: well, you didn't get the real allegra geller, i can tell you that. no
speaker2: i didn't?
speaker1: no. in real life i tend to lose control. it can get messy.
speaker1: let's go back.

speaker1: special order for the birthday girl. hope you enjoy it very much. 
speaker2: i think i've lost my appetite.
speaker1: a shame. mutant creatures provide new and previously unimagined taste sensations.
speaker1: shall i clear all this away?
speaker3: no, it looks terrific. thank you. we're happy.
speaker1: very good. enjoy.
speaker3: pikul, what are you doing?
speaker2: i don't know. i find this disgusting but i can't help myself.
speaker3: oh, good!
speaker2: good? you think this is good?

speaker1: yeah. it's a genuine game urge. it's something that your game character was born to do. don't fight it. 
speaker2: i am fighting it, but it isn't doing me any good.
speaker2: omigod, this looks awfully familiar. you sure this is ok?
speaker1: it should be ok.
speaker1: do you have that bridge in real life?
speaker2: absolutely not. my teeth are perfect. don't ask me how i knew this thing was in my mouth.
speaker1: it probably wasn't until you ordered the special.
speaker2: death to the demoness allegra geller.
speaker1: that's not funny!
speaker2: sorry, i couldn't resist. but you know... i do feel the urge to kill someone here.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: i need to kill our waiter.
speaker1: oh, well, that makes sense.
speaker2: but everything in this game is so realistic. i don't think i really could...
speaker1: you won't be able to stop. you might as well enjoy it.
speaker2: "free will" is obviously not a big factor in this little world of ours.
speaker1: it's like real life - there's just enough to make it interesting.
speaker2: he's too nice. i won't do it.

speaker1: st's all right, just a little misunderstanding over the check. pay no attention and enjoy your meal. 
speaker1: i feel a serious game urge to get out of here!
speaker2: through the kitchen! that way!

speaker1: did you like the meal i prepared for you? 
speaker2: yes. it was very... revealing.
speaker1: it certainly was for me. you both passed our little test with flying colours.
speaker3: why did the chinese waiter have to die?
speaker1: a waiter hears many things spoken when people are relaxed and eating. a waiter has many opportunities for betrayal.
speaker2: he betrayed you?
speaker1: he betrayed us. out this way, quickly!

speaker1: see there, the breeding pools. 
speaker2: is that where you caught today's special?
speaker1: the restaurant is controlled by us. we raise these mutant creatures as food and that is our cover, but of course, we are also raising them as components for undetectable and hypoallergenic weapons. right under the noses of our enemies. and speaking of our enemies, it's important that you go back to work at cortical systematics. we need to maintain as many agents there as we can. i'll take care of the mess at the restaurant.
speaker3: the trout farm is owned by cortical systematics?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: where did that come from? 
speaker2: the game made me do it.
speaker1: i'm impressed.
speaker3: we love you two now, now that you have proven to be true and trustworthy realists. we'll be in touch.
speaker2: "enemies of reality"? or does it really mean, enemies of existenz? are the realists the game-life version of the anti- existenzialists, desperately want to kill you?

speaker1: i wouldn't take it too seriously. 
speaker2: of course you wouldn't. but maybe you should.
speaker2: but why is the name cortical systematics familiar?
speaker1: we saw it everywhere in dorsey nader's game store, remember?
speaker3: yes. so that makes it the game- life version of our own company. cortical systematics is equivalent to antenna research in the real world.
speaker1: that's probably fair to say.
speaker3: so, then, do we meekly go back to work and say nothing? it sounds as though nourish and his realists are preparing to sabotage the trout farm. before you know it, they'll be planning to assassinate game designers.
speaker1: we're just characters in here. don't mix your real-life loyalties into it or you'll lose for sure.
speaker3: then what do we do next?

speaker1: i'm looking for dorsey nader. is he here? 
speaker2: say that again?
speaker1: is dorsey nader here?
speaker2: come with me. he's in the back.

speaker1: you want him, there he is. 
speaker2: migod!
speaker3: what happened?
speaker1: you shouldn't have killed the chinese waiter.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: he was your contact at the trout farm. a good man. his dog brought me this.
speaker2: but we were contacted there by yevgeny nourish. he seemed to know exactly who we were.
speaker1: that's because nader tipped him off that you were coming. nader was a mole for cortical systematics.
speaker3: you're with the realist underground.
speaker1: yes. i was placed here to keep an eye on nader.
speaker2: if nourish isn't our real contact, who is he?
speaker1: nourish is a double agent for cortical systematics. he was working with nader to subvert the realist cause, and doing it rather well.
speaker1: after all, he got you to assassinate your own contact. but now you're going to put a stop to him.
speaker2: we are?
speaker1: i assume that you both have had spinal port inserts, bioports, installed.
speaker2: we do.
speaker1: do you both realize that neither of you can be buried on hallowed ground because of these... these mutilations? does your bioport manual tell you that?
speaker3: are you trying to talk us into having them removed?
speaker1: no, no. in fact, you would be useless to us without them. we realists are forbidden to have them, and so we have to use people like you on occasion.
speaker3: i don't understand. are you wanting us to jack a game into our bioports?
speaker1: game? no. not a game. a weapon. you go back to the trout farm, and in a familiar place, you find a mouldy old wicker basket with a thread-bare canvas cover.
speaker2: how will we know what to do?
speaker1: even a child would know what to do.
speaker4: sorry to interrupt you kids, but i thought you'd better have something to eat. we knocked on your door a few times to invite you to dinner...
speaker3: come on in.
speaker4: ..and when we got no answer, i figured you were playing existenz to try out your new pod, and your new bioport. everything's all right, i take it?
speaker4: can i leave this here for you? don't bother unporting. i just had to be sure our star designer was in a good place and that she'd recovered her multi- million-dollar game system from her defective pod.
speaker3: thanks so much, kiri. this is very sweet of you.

speaker1: has what? 
speaker2: recovered. existenz.
speaker1: oh, yes, sure. that's why we're so spaced out.
speaker1: we were right into it, weren't we?
speaker3: yeah, we were. and it's amazing.
speaker4: well, that's a relief. i'll leave you two alone. you can leave the tray outside your door when you're finished.
speaker3: what is that you've brought?
speaker4: believe it or not, it's chinese food. there's a great chinese restaurant on the other side of the escarpment road.
speaker1: kiri?
speaker4: yes?
speaker1: have you heard anything yet? i mean, about the existenz test seminar and the shooting?
speaker4: oh, yes. it's come over all the media now. you've never been more famous. your face is everywhere, which of course just.makes it worse. i...
speaker1: what? tell me.
speaker4: they've announced the possibility that antenna will delay the release of your new system indefinitely, until they can determine how widespread support for this fanatical group really is. i don't approve, myself. i don't think we should bend one degree to extremists.
speaker1: support for the fanatics? what does that mean?
speaker4: well, you know. they're all coming out of the woodwork now.
speaker1: who is?
speaker4: a lot of people are taking the opportunity to jump on the anti- game bandwagon. they've now heard rumours about what the existenz system is, and they say we've gone too far psychologically, medically, socially, you name it. and i'm afraid i wouldn't put it past our competitors to be involved in this, to try to whip up public opinion and kill our new system before it gets born.
speaker4: you're sure you don't want me to contact antenna, even just to see what they have to say?
speaker1: not yet, kiri. thanks.
speaker3: gesturing towards the
speaker5: your friend vinokur is getting shaky. i think he's going to turn, you in to antenna.
speaker1: sounds like you might approve of that.
speaker3: it might be the safest thing. are you hungry?
speaker1: are you kidding?
speaker3: me neither. i'm terrified to look under the plates.
speaker3: this "support for the fanatics" thing doesn't sound too good.
speaker1: we can't stop. i've been noticing some new... glitches. i'm not sure what they mean. i'm not sure the game is ok.
speaker3: listen, to be honest, i find your game very confusing. i'm not sure i want to go back in there, because i'm not convinced i'm going to keep coming out. do you really like that feeling?
speaker1: yeah, i love it.
speaker3: will it?
speaker1: it really will do that, yes.
speaker1: don't hurt me, pikul. don't make me go back in alone. play with me.
speaker3: allegra, i'm worried that your game will wipe me off the face of the earth. i'm thinking i was right never to have a bioport installed.
speaker1: but you have one now. and you're ported in.

speaker1: that was cruel. i don't want to be here. 
speaker2: it wasn't cruel, it was desperate. c'mon, pikul. you've just got a bad case of first-time user anxiety.
speaker1: i don't like it here. i don't know what's going on. we're blundering around together in this unformed world, whose rules and objectives are largely unknown, seemingly indecipherable, or even possibly non-existent, always on the verge of being killed by forces we don't understand.
speaker2: that sounds like my game, all right.
speaker1: that sounds like a game that's not going to be easy to market.
speaker2: but it's a game that everybody's already playing! existence, it's wonderful!

speaker1: the cashier said it would be in a familiar place. is there such a thing here? 
speaker2: my assembly bay.
speaker1: is that it over there?
speaker2: i'd say it's exactly as advertised.
speaker1: it's ugly. even for a game- pod.
speaker2: i have a terrible urge to port into it. what about you?
speaker1: oh, sure. yes. desperate to port into it.
speaker2: here we go. wanna give me a hand?
speaker1: you're not serious! i mean, that's a diseased pod! once you port into that, you become, you... you...
speaker2: exactly. help me.
speaker1: how long does it take for the infection to take hold?
speaker2: no time at all.
speaker1: and then you quietly port into all the other pods and spread the infection to them...
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: what's happening?
speaker2: something's wrong!
speaker1: i'm gonna unport you now.
speaker1: i'm going to cut you free!
speaker2: no, don't, i'm afraid!
speaker3: pikul. i'm bleeding to death.

speaker1: i'm sorry! i don't know what else to do! 
speaker2: i know what to do.
speaker2: i know exactly what to do.
speaker2: death to realism!

speaker1: death... death to the demoness barb brecken... to the... 
speaker2: death to who?
speaker2: i think we just lost the game.
speaker2: or maybe not.

speaker1: allegra, we're back home. what's the matter, what's wrong? 
speaker2: pikul. it's here, it's happened. it's come back here with us. we brought it back with us from existenz.
speaker1: brought what back? i can't understand what you're saying.
speaker2: we brought the disease back with us. my pod is diseased.
speaker2: oh i'm really going to lose it, i'm going to lose my game! unport me! c'mon, unport me!
speaker2: i'm coming, i'm coming!

speaker1: but this can't be possible. how can a game event emerge into real life? 
speaker2: there's a very weird reality- bleed-through effect happening here. i'm not sure i get it.
speaker1: what's in that needle?
speaker2: it's an anti-viral serum. it sometimes works if you get it in time.
speaker2: lemme see your bioport.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: lemme see it!
speaker2: i know what happened. it's vinokur, that bastard.
speaker1: vinokur?
speaker2: he gave you a new bioport, didn't he?
speaker1: oh, no.
speaker2: he gave you an infected bioport so that my pod would die and so would my game-system.
speaker1: i'm infected? wait a minute!
speaker2: the poor thing was trying to tell us that it was sick by introducing the theme of disease into our game.
speaker1: the theme of disease? i'm reall infected! is it going to crawl up my spine and rot my brain?
speaker2: all right, don't panic. i've got something that will help you.
speaker2: i'm going to seal up your bioport with this anti-viral resonator.
speaker2: it uses the umby pick-ups for power. should cleanse all your porting channels of infection in a few hours. it'11 give you a little skin buzz when it's done. of course, we can't play until then.
speaker1: yeah, great. now, listen. this could be critical. were you really saying that vinokur is an

speaker1: agent of the anti- existenzialists? because if he is, if he's with them, then we are really... 
speaker2: oh, pikul, my pod's dying.
speaker2: i can't help it! i can't do anything for it!
speaker3: the uprising has begun! the whole place is on fire! let's go! you've got to get out of here.
speaker1: the cashier? he's a game character! how can he be here?

speaker1: i don't know! i don't know! 
speaker2: leave that rotting piece of meat here. it's done its job. let it die.
speaker1: but my game! my game's inside it. i don't want my game to die.
speaker3: allegra, listen to me. i think we're still inside the game. i think your real pod's out there somewhere, somewhere safe. i think it's ok to let go of this one, this pod. it's not the real one.
speaker2: everybody out! now!

speaker1: up here. we can see everything from here. 
speaker2: what is it that we're seeing?
speaker1: the victory of realism. and you were part of it.
speaker3: the death of existenz. and we were part of it.
speaker1: there's just one more thing.
speaker2: what are you doing? we're on your side.
speaker1: how could you be? how could allegra geller, the world's premiere game designer, be on our side?
speaker2: something's slipped over the edge, here, allegra. something's all wrong.
speaker1: there. you see what i mean. you see the problem.

speaker1: i tried to find you. thank i got here in time. my dog brought me this. 
speaker2: you didn't get here in time. my game is dead.
speaker1: no, just your pod. i replicated the entire contents of your pod when i fixed your nerve boards. they're in safe-keeping. they're all in one piece.
speaker2: you copied existenz?
speaker1: allegra, come over to cortical systematics. yes, yes, cortical systematics. i'm defecting and so are all the antenna research top brass, pellatt, melzack, sherrin, everybody good.
speaker2: you're a spy for cortical systematics.
speaker3: wait a minute. cortical systematics is just the qame version, it's only...

speaker1: only from antenna research. 
speaker2: but why stay with them? look at that mess down there. how could you trust antenna again, when they've endangered you like this?
speaker1: you know, this guy was actually going to kill me.
speaker2: can you talk to her? i mean, we can take you with us too.
speaker3: what the are you doing?! you've killed him! are you gonna kill me next?

speaker1: c'mon, pikul. he's only a game character. and i didn't like the way he was messing with my mind. 
speaker2: didn't you? you didn't like that and so you killed him?
speaker1: he was only a game character.
speaker2: but allegra. what if we're not in the game anymore?
speaker1: huh? if... if we... we're not?
speaker2: if we're not, then you just killed someone real. a real person.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: it wasn't an accident that you and i ended up on the run together.
speaker1: not an accident? pikul hefts the submachine gun in his hands.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: that's why you never had a bioport. you were one of them.
speaker2: i still am one of them.
speaker1: but you have a bioport now.
speaker1: i thought that was forbidden to anti-existenzialists.
speaker2: i made the bioport sacrifice to get close to you, to make love to my enemy.
speaker1: why would you do that?
speaker2: to understand what i have to kill.

speaker1: then. understand this. 
speaker1: understand that i suspected who you were from the moment you made that fake phone call to yourself in the limo. understand that i knew you were my real assassin when you pointed the gun at me in the chinese restaurant.
speaker1: and understand that you're dead.

speaker1: death to the demon ted pikul! 
speaker1: have i won the game? have i won? have i won?

speaker1: are you all back? 
speaker2: we're back, merle. although i have a feeling some of our crew might not realize it yet. shaky laughter from some of the players.
speaker3: wow. anybody here want a bowl of hot and sour soup?

speaker1: i will, if you make sure there 
speaker2: are some insect boards in the
speaker3: rice.

speaker1: how long were we gone? 
speaker2: about twenty minutes.

speaker1: it seemed like days. that's fantastic. 
speaker2: yeah. if you stayed in the gameworld for most of your life, you could live to be five hundred years old!

speaker1: the twists and turns at the end made my head spin. maybe there were too many, to fast to absorb. hey, but you two were fantastic. you guys are game divas! i think you both deserved to win. 
speaker2: well me, i was really bummed out at first. i got knocked out of the game so soon. it was fun to watch the rest, though. i liked that part where the ones who got knocked out of the game early got to be spooky customers in the game store.
speaker3: but you were so wonderfully bad. so scary and crazy. i had a lot to do in that first scene in the church but i thought my character was kind of boring.
speaker2: well, you know, i'm a gas-jockey in real life, so i was kind of disappointed that i was basically the same thing in the game. a little more fantasy, there, fellers.

speaker1: interesting. interesting. hold that thought for the focus group. 
speaker2: can i keep this? i've never felt anything like it! and i love this little thumb-hole. it's fantastic!

speaker1: nice try, but you're going to have to turn them in because they're beta versions, pre- production hand-made specials, and we need to study them after use for wear and tear and other things. but you'll get a certificate for helping us out here - i'm right about that, aren't i, merle? 
speaker2: and that will entitle you to reserve one of the first batch of the transcendenz by pilgrimage game modules to hit the market, and at a seriously discounted price. you're gonna love it.
speaker2: remember - it's written like this. capital t, capital z. transcendenz. it's new, it's from pilgrimage - capital p. capital i, and it's coming soon.

speaker1: i'd just like to say thank you to mr. nourish for giving me the chance to play the role of a star designer. i guess the game picked up on my ambitions to be like you. 
speaker2: well, let me first say that i'm kinda glad i lost this game. i don't usually play such nasty characters.
speaker2: and, allegra, you were so good in that role that i suspect it won't be long before pilgrimage is after you to sign a designing contract. and maybe you should take your friend ted, here, mr. pikul, with you. he's obviously good in a crisis, and when you design games, there are plenty of them.
speaker1: i guess you all could tell that ted and i had a relationship prior to our coming here. we really do like to play together.
speaker3: we do, but i'd like to assure everybody here that allegra wouldn't really jump into bed with a security guard unless he was me.

speaker1: merle, i was very disturbed by the game we just played. 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: it had a very strong, very real anti-game theme. i mean, it began with the assassination of a game designer.
speaker2: or really? but that's very creative.
speaker2: but on second thought, i see what you mean. it makes me nervous. you think it must have come from one of our game players?
speaker1: it sure didn't come from me. the tone of it in the game was very, very passionate, fanatical. and the atmosphere of paranoia and betrayal was overwhelming. the whole thing felt unstable, dangerous, volatile. but worse than that, there was a kind of industrial espionage subplot. stealing game-systems, jumping ship from one game company to another. that kind of thing.
speaker2: so which one of them did these elements come from?
speaker1: let's probe it when we do the focus group. i think we might have been infiltrated here, and if we have, we've got a big security problem.
speaker3: hi. we were just wondering if we could ask mr. nourish a question, away from all the others.
speaker1: sure. shoot.
speaker1: long as you don't ask me to fill in your questionnaire.
speaker3: we've played your game now, and so we can finally agree with the others that you are the world's greatest game artist.

speaker1: yevgeny, don't you think you should suffer for all the harm you've done, and intend to do, to the human race? 
speaker2: what?
speaker3: yes. don't you think the world's greatest game artist ought to be punished for the most effective deforming of reality?
speaker4: i don't think this is very...
speaker1: death to the demon yevgeny nourish!

speaker1: no, wait, you don't have to shoot me. i just wanted to ask you a question. _ 
speaker2: what?

