speaker1: leave off with that, scratch. 
speaker2: aint bothering you.
speaker1: yes it is. that aint no kind of music.
speaker2: least i make a sound.
speaker1: yeah and it's a nasty one.
speaker2: you want to try again tonight?
speaker1: might as well.

speaker1: i know a gal name of betty sue shook it so much she got the german flu no matter how she done it no matter how she done it no matter how she done it she done it just the same 
speaker1: you women don't worry about your life she made jack the ripper throw away his knife-
speaker1: no matter how she done it no matter how she done it no matter how she done it she done it just the same

speaker1: a copper brought her in she didn't need no bail she shook it for the judge he threw the cop in jail no matter how she done it no matter how she done it no matter how she done it she done it just the same 
speaker2: you take it for a while.
speaker1: they makin all that racket again at toussaint's.
speaker2: yeah. and all them people over there buying drinks and throwing their money after them dice and whatnot. lucky we got none a that here.
speaker1: you can drink your liquor you can drink your cold can beer-
speaker3: she sounding good, huh?
speaker2: sounds fine. always has.

speaker1: you can drink your good whiskey you can drink your cold can beer- 
speaker2: not much of a crowd.
speaker3: not a crowd at all. just some stiffs who want to drink theirself to sleep without the music wakin em up.
speaker2: you ought to advertise. got an attraction like bertha mae-
speaker1: you can lay up with your sweet gal but poppa don't you leave me here
speaker3: singin is one thing, slick. whether people want to look at you while you do it is another.
speaker2: you saying something about- maceo arrives to join them, interrupting-
speaker4: got quite a number over to toussaint's place tonight.
speaker3: sounds like it.
speaker4: lots of young folks. come to listen to that box of his.
speaker3: thanks, china doll.

speaker1: don't see why we don't just turn our box on and let folks feed it nickels like they do. 
speaker2: the lady is singing.
speaker1: but didn't nobody come to listen to her, slick.

speaker1: like the man say, you can't argue with failure. 
speaker2: you know why slick here is like a preacher?
speaker2: cause he does all his best work on his knees.
speaker1: never mind him, he just a drunk-
speaker2: i hear she put a ring through it and use it to yank him around the house.

speaker1: you know tyrone don't allow no scufflin here, slick. 
speaker2: i oughta get me a old woman too, take care of the groceries. just got to sweet-talk her some, give her a good poke now and then-
speaker1: you gonna drink, stokely, or you gonna lay out back recoverin from that busted head you about to get?
speaker3: gentlemen-
speaker4: miss delilah-
speaker3: let's behave ourselves. what are you boys doing in here? out!
speaker3: and what are you doing behind that bar?
speaker5: it's just for a minute.
speaker3: that's sixty seconds too long. maceo, you get back there and take that child's place.
speaker3: you bring people their food. don't you be messing with their liquor.
speaker5: nobody's eating.

speaker1: that's cause nobody's here but these couple lost souls, haven't had an appetite since they give over to the devil. 
speaker2: at pinetop's honeydripper that's where i get my cold can beer at pinetop's honeydripper that's where i get my cold can beer-
speaker3: evenin, maceo. you lookin good tonight.
speaker4: likewise, miss nadine. what can i do for you?
speaker3: you know what you can do for me, sweet man.
speaker4: what would you like to drink?

speaker1: how many is that tonight? 
speaker2: don't dog me about that, baby. not tonight.
speaker1: i don't want china doll behind that bar.

speaker1: she got to help out. 
speaker2: not there she doesn't. you know she's not sposed to get excited-
speaker1: not much chance of that in here. harvest hands all been crowdin into toussaint's place.
speaker2: you'll get some of them.
speaker1: they stick their noses in here, get one little sniff of the music, and they gone.
speaker2: maybe that's the wages of sin.
speaker1: aint no sin happenin here tonight, baby, and there sure as aint no wages. your wants to chastise some sinners he best move on over to toussaint's, got a whole barroom crowded with em.
speaker2: he isn't `my god'. he's everybody's
speaker1: how that tent meeting went tonight?
speaker2: viola underwood found the lord.
speaker1: i thought she found him last year when they come through.

speaker1: well, she must have lost him again between then and now, cause she come down that aisle tonight hollering in tongues. 
speaker2: the spirit didn't move you, though?
speaker1: not yet. might be too late for me.
speaker1: i can't believe you're serving alton stokely.

speaker1: that poor man- 
speaker2: toussaint cut his credit off.

speaker1: -or he drinks that paint-peeler willie pettigrew cooks up back in the swamp. 
speaker2: he's gonna drink himself to death in here.
speaker1: least he won't go blind first.
speaker2: imonna go home and say a prayer for that man.

speaker1: come here sweet poppa let me whisper in your ear come here sweet poppa let me whisper in your ear go back to alabama but don't you leave your momma here only slick applauds- 
speaker2: that was outstandin, baby. you still got the voice.
speaker1: you think so?
speaker2: sent a chill down my spine to hear you.
speaker1: i might be a little late saturday, tyrone.
speaker3: don't need to come in if you don't want to.
speaker3: i've made other arrangements.
speaker1: other arrangements-

speaker1: try something new in here. 
speaker2: you can't do that!
speaker3: it's his place, darlin, he can do whatever he want.
speaker3: you know where to find me if you need me.
speaker4: i put the box on now, ty?
speaker1: yeah. put the box on.
speaker4: imonna crank it up some, see if we can draw a little life in here-

speaker1: there it go again. 
speaker2: lectricity don't like that jukebox.

speaker1:  
speaker2: china doll?
speaker3: got to get the power company in here-
speaker2: no you don't. they turned my juice off last month- don't want them sniffin around that splice job maceo done.
speaker1: must be a short circuit in the juke here-
speaker2: don't worry folks, bar's still open.
speaker4: it's nice like this. kind of romantic.
speaker1: imonna have to go out back, wiggle some things around.
speaker4: don't be wigglin nothin round less i'm there to see it.

speaker1: evenin, folks. 
speaker2: evenin, sheriff.
speaker1: your lights gone out.
speaker2: looks like it.
speaker1: don't know but that be a vilation of somethin or other.
speaker2: we just about to close up here.
speaker1: your wife been cookin?
speaker2: not tonight. went to the revival tent.
speaker1: i stood by there a while. them nigras was singin up a storm.
speaker1: i just come out here to look in on toussaint- had that shooting two nights ago.
speaker2: lot's of fighting in there.
speaker1: there is that. but me and old toussaint got us a greement.

speaker1: sheriff pugh you get these field hands suckin down that whiskey, hop em all up with music, there's gonna be some razors drawn. he only call me if it's a fatality. 
speaker2: never been a killin in here. them youngbloods know better-
speaker3: -than to mess with tyrone purvis.
speaker3: you got quite the reputation round here, tyrone. say you put some poor black boy in the grave.
speaker4: just people talkin.
speaker3: you remember that this is my county, tyrone. what goes on goes on cause i let it. don't want to get too big for your britches out here.
speaker3: you folks have a pleasant evening, now.
speaker5: a aint in this world.

speaker1: speakin for yourself. 
speaker2: you didn't have this club, tyrone, what you think you be?
speaker2: wouldn't be nothin. and if that aint true then grits aint groceries.

speaker1: that is a terrible noise. 
speaker2: just the northbound from talledega.
speaker1: like a soul bein carried away from this life.

speaker1: lucky the high-sheriff aint here to see you crawl outta that boxcar. 
speaker2: he come round here much?
speaker1: only when he's bored.
speaker2: you working that train?
speaker1: kansas city to new orleans.
speaker2: what you get off here for?
speaker1: i growed up here. still got people. how bout you?
speaker2: got tired of sleepin in a boxcar. listen, is there a place to-
speaker1: switchman's shed, right over there, has got a cot. don't mind the rats none, less you got food on you- and i can see you and a good meal has been strangers for some time.
speaker1: you get into town tomorrow an need somethin, tell em shack thomas sent you. they know who you talkin about.

speaker1: the sign reads- 
speaker2: name like that, must be a good place for musicians.
speaker3: shack laughs as he heads away-
speaker4: only night i ever spent in jail was a town called liberty. sun comes up, you'll see where you landed. and you best be out of that shed by first light.

speaker1: i owe the chicken man, i owe the ice man, i owe the liquor man- 
speaker2: least you don't owe the electric company.

speaker1: yeah, that's a big relief. 
speaker2: you thinkin bout closing down?
speaker3: new orleans singing sensation

speaker1: what you think? 
speaker2: biggest act in new orleans, got him a hit on the radio-
speaker1: he's playing here saturday night. figured i'd wait till bertha mae was gone to put this up.
speaker2: here? you mean like in this room here?
speaker1: you know the tomcat club in texarkana?
speaker2: big jim jamison's place-
speaker1: just went out of business.
speaker2: damn-
speaker1: and since sam is giggin his way over to tulsa, that means he got the date open-

speaker1: but you aint never had a guitar pl- 
speaker2: i'm having one now.
speaker1: what you gonna pay the man with?
speaker2: you just worry about gettin these hung up everywhere in the county tomorrow. payday come saturday, he gonna draw alla them cotton pickers and soldiers boys in here, get us back in the black.
speaker2: they gonna take me down, it won't be without a fight.
speaker1: guitar sam at the honeydripper.

speaker1: i knew this was alabama, but that's the stone ages, man. 
speaker2: where you from, boy?
speaker1: memphis.
speaker2: down on you vacation?
speaker1: got in a piece of trouble up there with the white folks, need to bide my time for a spell.
speaker3: you bide any time in these fields, bossman gonna fire your for takin up space.
speaker1: aint no worry bout that. i'm a cotton-pickin fool.
speaker2: you a fool, all right.
speaker1: and where you from, brother bear?
speaker2: missippi.
speaker1: then this a real step up for you. folks round here has discovered fire and whatnot-

speaker1: that trouble you in have anything to do with runnin your mouth? 
speaker2: had to do with somebody get on my nerves and i had to deal with him.
speaker1: must of been somebody kind of puny.
speaker2: as i recall he just about your size.
speaker2: what's this place we at?
speaker3: nearest town is harmony. this mr. silas tugwell's place.
speaker3: you better get pickin.
speaker2: cotton aint goin nowhere.
speaker3: more you get first thing when the dew still on it, the more it weighs when it tip that scale.
speaker2: you live here too?

speaker1: somebody slept in the railroad yard. 
speaker2: yall can play that thing.
speaker1: been doin it near forever.

speaker1: listen, which side of the tracks am i- 
speaker2: the wrong side for you.
speaker1: what you doing here then?
speaker2: white folks look right through me. how much mischief an old blind spook like me gonna get up to anyhow?
speaker1: where our people go for music around here?
speaker2: there's a couple places just a little bit out of town. at the crossroads.
speaker1: long walk?
speaker2: you in a hurry?
speaker1: how old is that box you playin, pops?
speaker2: second one that ever was- an the devil's got the first. how bout yours?
speaker1: brand new. made it myself.
speaker2: made it hisself-

speaker1: that's right. so these clubs- 
speaker2: old toussaint, owns the ace of spades, don't feature live music. and pinetop purvis, owns the honeydripper lounge? he don't care bout no guitar. won't have one under his roof.
speaker1: that don't make sense.
speaker2: yeah- when a musician put his hand to murder, nine times outa ten it's a drummer done it. but pinetop a piano man-
speaker1: he killed somebody?
speaker2: that's the story. might be true, and it might not.

speaker1: but if you meet the man, you well don't be askin him about it. 
speaker2: 
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker2: i got a shock.

speaker1: i drove a supply truck. 
speaker2: guitar sam aint gonna play by no candlelight.
speaker1: i smell bacon.
speaker2: you must of burnt your porky with that lectricity.
speaker3: breakfast ready!
speaker4: china doll has stepped out from the club-
speaker2: where's your mama?
speaker3: already over to the mayor's. she told me to come here and make sure you eat something fore you start runnin around.
speaker1: that is a sweet woman you got.
speaker3: you got one waitin for you if you want her.

speaker1: come in here every night makin them cow-eyes at you- ty and maceo sit- 
speaker2: she seems like the kind could smother a man-
speaker1: she makes all her own clothes.
speaker3: darlin, that's not the kind of thing a man cares about from a woman.
speaker2: hey, i fixed it!
speaker3: you didn't do no such thing. it just decided to come back on.
speaker2: decided.
speaker3: just like it decided to switch off last night. you not even in the conversation.
speaker1: miss nadine makes some good money too, sewing for people.
speaker2: that woman scares me. last ole boy that give her a tumble, nappy carpenter?

speaker1: maceo she cook for him, fixed him up all kinds of nice new clothes, kept him in gin and poker chips- 
speaker2: don't see no problem with that.
speaker3: well, come four, five months, a man starts to- sorry, china doll, but this just the way it is- a man gots needs.
speaker4: nadine look like she can take care of those, too-
speaker3: you eat chicken every morning, noon and night for five months, you get a taste for some different kind of meat, right? maybe i shouldn't be-
speaker2: aint gonna tell me something i haven't heard worse.
speaker3: well, nappy goes out and has him a- a porkchop or two, let's say- and he comes back from toussaint's one night feeling no pain, smelling like- like porkchops- the way a man will- and he falls out on nadine's couch and commences to snore. wake up the next mornin, finds she had took all his clothes off without him knowin it-
speaker4: man was dog drunk-
speaker3: miss nadine come in with a skillet in her hand, hot grits bubbling in it, says "baby, i got your breakfast." "not this morning, nadine," he says, sittin up, "don't think i could eat a thing." "well then," she says, "we can't let this go to waste, can we?" and she dump that whole hot bubblin mess right in the man's lap.

speaker1: owwww! 
speaker2: then she got busy with that hot iron on his head. screams didn't bring the neighbors in, she would of killed that man.
speaker1: you got to admit it, though- woman is an artist with that singer machine.
speaker3: scuse me?
speaker3: which one of you is mr. pinetop?
speaker1: we aint hirin.
speaker3: i can play anything-
speaker1: already got me a professional.
speaker3: guitar sam really coming all the way out here?
speaker1: that so surprising?
speaker3: no, no-- uhm, mr. shack thomas said that if i was to-
speaker1: you know shack?

speaker1: we uh- we travelled together- ty gives him a once-over- 
speaker2: when's the last time you ate solid food, young man?
speaker2: take him back and fix him somethin, china doll. standin there all hungry-eyed, puts me off my breakfast.
speaker1: that's real kind of you-
speaker3: must of come in on the northbound last night.
speaker2: look like he got cooties, too. straw in them boxcars is full of em.
speaker3: never cared to travel that way.
speaker2: i was out there ridin them rails between the wars. seem like half the country headin west rolled past the other half comin back east. every one of us scrapin for the next meal-
speaker4: this is the place.

speaker1: yall can tear things down, put things up- got a lot of potential. 
speaker2: looks bigger in here than it does from the outside.
speaker3: i help you gentlemen?
speaker1: just showing the man gonna run this place what he's got.
speaker3: this is my place.
speaker1: you the piano player, right?
speaker3: name's tyrone- call me pinetop purvis.
speaker1: pinetop purvis who owes two hundred dollars to lucky hardaway up in little rock-
speaker3: he's gonna get his-
speaker1: pinetop who missed last month's rent-
speaker3: after this weekend-
speaker1: after this weekend you gonna be the same raggedy-ass piano player can't pay his debts off and mr. simmons here gonna be the new proprietor.

speaker1: lucky give me two weeks- 
speaker2: lucky got a better offer.
speaker1: he can't do that.
speaker2: you don't think so?
speaker3: what if we got our payment for him monday?
speaker2: saturday night.
speaker3: we can do that-
speaker2: not just a taste- the whole two hundred.
speaker1: and i throw in a twenny-five cent tip for his messenger boy.
speaker2: i'll be here.
speaker1: in the meantime, we not open yet. which means yall are trespassin.
speaker2: you seen enough, mr. simmons?
speaker4: i believe i have.

speaker1: yeah, somebody could make something out of this place. wouldn't take much work at all. 
speaker2: we cleared over two hundred that one weekend-
speaker3: couple years back-
speaker2: and we didn't have no louisiana guitar wizard playin neither.
speaker3: yeah, they say he draws em like flies.
speaker2: that's what they say.
speaker3: they say first thing he does is go to the man that owns the joint, sticks out his hand and wants that cash money put in it.
speaker2: i already sent fifty to his manager.
speaker3: how much you payin him all out?
speaker2: another hundred.
speaker3: we'd have to clear three hundred-
speaker2: i figure we charge folks two dollars to get in, then drinks-

speaker1: what i'm sayin is, less he sees the green up front the man won't get off the train. 
speaker1: what's that now?

speaker1: bout time you fellas run by. we just about dry here. 
speaker2: your boss in?
speaker1: tyrone! whiskey wagon come by!
speaker3: y'all a day late.
speaker3: old man toussaint gonna chew you out.
speaker2: toussaint went over to another supplier upstate. we just got you, then we headin down to the army base, officers' club needs servicin. this fifty-six dollars-

speaker1: my credit no good anymore? 
speaker1: whoah, whoah- what's your hurry?
speaker2: nobody that's right in his head sell liquor on credit. specially not to no darktown roadhouse.
speaker1: well this is like a special case, see- we got the harvest coming in, soldiers at the base gonna be let out on leave- saturday night. aint enough hootch in this truck to satisfy what we gonna sell-
speaker2: you pay as you go. that's bidness.
speaker1: you can come by monday, get paid and take back every drop i aint sold! we got guitar sam lined up, you know what that means?!
speaker1: i'll pay you extra- penny a bottle on the beer and a nickel on the whiskey!
speaker1: what if i throw in five dollars up front, just for you fellas- ?

speaker1: come on, man, everybody give credit, that's the american way! 
speaker2: maybe we could buy some busthead from willie pettigrew.
speaker1: with that sheriff sniffin around every night? land my black in jail for good.
speaker2: then what we gonna do?
speaker3: got a liquor delivery for a mr.
speaker2: that's-
speaker1: that would be me.
speaker1: i trust they got my check all right?
speaker3: don't spose i'd be here if they didn't.
speaker1: pull it around to the back- we'll help you unload.

speaker1: arkansas. how bout you? 
speaker2: we come here just after mama met my step-daddy.
speaker1: not much happenin, little town like this.
speaker2: they started up the training base again-
speaker1: that right?
speaker2: you been in the army?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: you shoot people?
speaker1: fixed radios.
speaker2: they say this new war gonna be a short one.
speaker1: might be, might not. i was to japan.

speaker1: yeah? what's the people like there? 
speaker2: small.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: bout that high.
speaker1: you been to california?
speaker2: los angeles.
speaker1: where they make the movies.
speaker2: you go to the movies?
speaker1: i been once.
speaker2: fine-looking girl like you, ought to been all kinds of places.
speaker1: i'm going to em. first i'm going to beauty school when mama saves up the money and then i have a portable skill-
speaker2: like playin music.
speaker1: my step-daddy says that aint a skill-
speaker3: -it's an affliction.

speaker1: come on, china doll. got some bidness in town you gonna help me with. 
speaker1: and you, young man, want to point yourself west down that highway. bout three miles you see a mess of people working in the fields- it's harvest time. if you can stoop and pull, they got a job for you.
speaker1: and wash up them dishes before you go.

speaker1: i see four and twenty elders down on their knees i see four and twenty elders down on their knees well they all turn together standing to greet the rising sun i see four and twenty elders down on their knees 
speaker2: your biscuits were wonderful this morning, delilah.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: of course, they always are. i don't know how you do it.
speaker1: just cook em.

speaker1: when i married floyd i swear i couldn't even boil water. might be why he insisted i needed help around the house. he used to come to the dinner table with a sense of dread. 
speaker2: anybody can learn to cook. just have to put your mind to it.
speaker1: maybe you could show me some of your secrets some time.
speaker2: no secrets to it. imonna fix some ham with yams and greens today, you want to learn how.
speaker1: maybe some other day.
speaker2: you just say the word, miss amanda, i have you cookin in no time.
speaker1: i just don't know what i'd do without you.

speaker1: what i need is for you to go get friendly with luther, then i just happen in- 
speaker2: we can't just ask mr. skinner?

speaker1: mr. skinner don't want nothin from colored folks but they buy his goods and shine his shoes. you go on ahead, now- 
speaker2: it was early friday evenin hounds began to bark
speaker2: stackolee an billy lyons was squabblin in the dark ty frowns at the lyrics-
speaker2: stackolee said to billy lyons "what you think bout that? first you takes all my money then you spits in my stetson hat."
speaker1: i hate that song.
speaker2: how you keepin, tyrone?
speaker1: just tryin to hold it together.
speaker2: got your beautiful young daughter with you this mornin-
speaker1: don't you be studyin her.

speaker1: heard you gone put on a guitar man out your place. 
speaker2: where you hear that?
speaker1: oh- the breeze.
speaker2: well this time the breeze know what it's blowin about.
speaker1: better be careful, tyrone. you know what them guitar players are like.
speaker2: be careful yourself.
speaker1: well he shot him three times in the shoulder three times in the side that was the last time he shot him cause poor billy up and died

speaker1: the time is ripe and the bill is past due. roosevelt would of done it already, only he died and they don't listen to miss eleanor no more. but mr. truman startin to bend, specially now that we got a war heatin up. as brother randolph says- 
speaker2: here it comes-
speaker3: shack looks to see ty joining the others-
speaker2: -the gospel accordin to a. phillip randolph.
speaker1: tyrone! how you doing, man?
speaker2: got my nose above the waterline.
speaker1: and here's my baby- how's your mama doing, china doll?
speaker4: she's doin fine, uncle shack.
speaker1: just tellin the boys here how brother randolph pushin through this deal where our boys gonna be a full part of services- already got the navy and the air force, and the army is-
speaker2: i carried a rifle in the great war, shack. boys get in the middle of this korea mess they aint gonna thank you for your efforts.
speaker1: we want our due in this country, we got to go whole hog-
speaker2: black folks shooting yellow folks to keep the white folks happy?
speaker1: it's time to move on from that kind of thinkin.

speaker1: you go ahead and move right on, shack. then come back and tell the rest of us how it is. 
speaker2: that is a hard-headed man.

speaker1: i'd have to ask mr. skinner. 
speaker2: of course you would. while you at it, remind him how one of the reasons colored folks come in here is to get the lowdown on what's happening in-- luther brightens as china doll steps in-
speaker1: china doll!
speaker3: you gonna let us put these posters up, aint you luther?
speaker1: oh-- i don't think that be any problem at all.
speaker3: that's awful nice of you, luther.
speaker1: you lookin special today.
speaker3: that's sweet of you to say.

speaker1: maceo, go on with the man and he show you where you can put em up. come on, darlin, we got more stops to make- china doll spreads a parting bit of sunshine- 
speaker2: nice to see you, luther.

speaker1: you got that boy eatin out of your hand. 
speaker2: luther's the only one didn't pull my hair when he sit behind me at sunday school.
speaker1: well i hope you got a little that sugar left, cause we got to spread some on miss bertha mae spivey-
speaker2: you gone ask her to come sing again?
speaker1: imonna ask her for money. word is she got a whole pile of it squirreled away.
speaker2: daddy-
speaker1: come on, girl, we in a rush here-

speaker1: i got to rest. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, baby. you catch your breath.
speaker1: so- why miss spivey gonna give you money, you don't let her sing at the club any more?
speaker2: gonna make her a partner.
speaker1: partner in what?
speaker2: in the honeydripper.
speaker1: but all you ever say it's just a hole you pour good money into-
speaker2: that don't matter. imonna make her a proprietor.
speaker1: `tress'. like waiter and waitress.
speaker2: proprietress. she got to like the sound of that.

speaker1: lovely ladies out to make a purchase- 
speaker2: that the same guitar sam is on the radio?
speaker1: the very one.
speaker2: what's he look like?
speaker1: fine lookin man. real lady killer from what i hear. got that new orleans style to him.
speaker2: you ought to have a picture up there.
speaker1: oh, we'll be gettin some of those when he comes in on the train. the main thing is, the man is electrified- and you know what that means.

speaker1: we make like we just come by to see how she's keepin, and then i'll kind of mention how i been thinking of bringing her on as a partner- 
speaker2: left the door open.

speaker1: she's gone. 
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: when she gonna be back?
speaker1: she's just gone. woke up beside her and--

speaker1: aw, 
speaker2: fourteen years.
speaker1: china doll, you go find your mama.
speaker2: people make jokes and all, but i been with that woman fourteen years. that's a good part of my life.
speaker1: and stop by beauchamp's and tell em they got a customer.

speaker1: she gimme the only home i ever had. 
speaker1: what i'm gonna do now?

speaker1: in a hurry, boy? 
speaker2: naw, sir.
speaker1: take your hat off.
speaker1: where you headed?
speaker2: lookin for work.
speaker1: you're not from here.
speaker2: naw, sir.

speaker1: stranger wanderin around, no job- that would make you a vagrant. 
speaker2: but i'm lookin-
speaker1: i got a job for you. get in the back.

speaker1: i can always use another hand. 
speaker2: caught this young fella in flagrant violation of the statutes. gawkery with intent to mope.
speaker1: what's he gonna run me?
speaker2: three dollars a day plus you feed im lunch. now the sentence- that depends on how long you gonna need the help.
speaker3: i don't get any trial?
speaker4: sure you do, boy. and a speedy one, too. meet judge gatlin.
speaker1: grab a sack.

speaker1: saturday night, fellas! every fine- looking colored woman in the county gonna be there- don't want to miss it! 
speaker1: afternoon, sir. nice lookin bunch of soldiers.

speaker1: oh dear, i believe it's about that time- she pulls out a decanter of wine- 
speaker1: would you care to join me?
speaker2: no thank you.
speaker1: of course you won't join me, you don't partake. that was thoughtless of me.

speaker1: that's all right. 
speaker2: so you don't take spirits and- what else? in your church?
speaker1: i'm sort of between churches right now. i been thinking about changing over to the holiness, but i- i haven't been sanctified yet.
speaker2: ah-
speaker1: there's been a minister in this week-
speaker2: the tent out by the fairgrounds.
speaker2: the church i grew up in- we were pentacostals- they wouldn't have anything but the human voice inside the church. and dancing- any kind of dancing, music, card playing-- well, it was very strict. they took up serpents.
speaker1: i've heard of that.
speaker2: i tell floyd these stories and he's horrified. they've always been methodists, floyd's family.
speaker1: they're good people too.
speaker2: when i married floyd-- oh, it was quite a scandal among my relatives. as if i'd taken up with somebody in a cult.

speaker1: it can be a trial, married folks differ in their religion. 
speaker2: and your husband is a--- ?
speaker1: unaffiliated.
speaker2: unaffiliated. i see. he has his-- social club-
speaker1: the honeydripper.
speaker2: such a colorful name.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: he must devote a great deal of his energy to it.
speaker1: it's just him and maceo green runs it, and then i go over and cook some when i get off here.
speaker2: that's very- supportive of you. considering the sort of- environment-
speaker1: i been in those barrooms most of my life, miss amanda.
speaker2: i see-
speaker1: i was a singer. i met tyrone in the paradise, down in shreveport, china doll was only two-

speaker1: i was just kind of livin along, you know, drinking more than i ought-- then tyrone. it was like a light come into my life. 
speaker1: people think things because he owns the lounge, but they don't know him.
speaker2: small minds are never in short supply.
speaker2: the people in this town--- she catches herself, smiles-
speaker2: i suppose they expected that floyd, being from a prominent family- as prominent as is possible here in harmony- would have chosen somebody more-- she fades away again, empties her glass-
speaker2: my people were very devout, but they weren't- financially successful.
speaker1: no shame in that.
speaker2: in school, if you didn't have shoes- she frowns at the memory, sighs-
speaker2: oh, i forgot--

speaker1: i was going through emily's old things the other day, and i thought this would look just darling on your china doll- 
speaker2: oh- i don't think it would near fit her, miss amanda.
speaker1: how old is she now?
speaker2: seventeen.
speaker1: oh my- i must have lost track somewhere along the line. seventeen.
speaker2: it was a very nice thought.
speaker3: mama? they need you at- delilah shifts her eyes to indicate-
speaker3: oh, i'm sorry, miss amanda. i didn't know you was home.
speaker1: china doll! we were just recalling- you used to play right here under this table.

speaker1: there isn't any cash money i know of. she sold a good deal of the furniture, but there's still a nice- lookin sofa in the parlor. only thing she cared for anymore was singin out to pinetop's place- 
speaker1: you welcome to look around the house- if there's anything your missus might like-- long as it's not something personal to me and bertha mae-
speaker1: it's just- she got to go out in style, is what it is. the best you got, all the trimmins- lay it out for her. that's the way she lived it- that's the way she ought to leave it.

speaker1: can't say i have. 
speaker2: you want to set your pins out wide, bend over from the hip- sonny widens his stance-
speaker2: -and don't be bobbin up and down all the time. when you up, be up, but when you on the row, stay down.
speaker2: but most important, you got to get you a rhythm. everything in this life got a rhythm to it- even pullin cotton off the plant.
speaker1: lay it out for me.
speaker2: not my rhythm- your rhythm. that's between you and the day and the work you got before you. once you on it, don't let nothin and nobody push you off it.
speaker1: i'm going so slow.
speaker2: you gettin paid by the pound or by the hour?
speaker1: i'm not gettin paid at all. none of us are.
speaker2: then i suggest you work that into your rhythm too.

speaker1: let's see more pickin and less talkin over there! 
speaker2: gettin right on it, boss!

speaker1: them boys fryin over there. 
speaker2: that judge gatlin's gang- he work them people from can until can't, ever day, and when his fields is picked he bid em out to the neighbors. harvest time comes round here, you sign up with somebody fast or you stay outa sight.
speaker1: ate a peck of dust today.
speaker2: take some water.
speaker1: only thing wash the dust out is whiskey.
speaker2: aint enough whiskey in this world wash out what i swallowed in my life.
speaker2: what we playin for?

speaker1: two bits a hand. 
speaker2: that's kind of steep-
speaker1: hell, i member playin this game one night- memphis is boss crump's town, folks is gamblin before they can walk- ten dollars a hand. i caught a winnin streak that cleaned out half the sportin men on beale street. got up from that table, my money was as long as train smoke-
speaker2: what happen to it?
speaker1: spent it all on fine-lookin women.
speaker1: yo, missippi-
speaker2: his name hamilton.
speaker1: hambone! you want in on this?
speaker1: settle up on payday.
speaker3: that your deck of cards?
speaker1: what if it is?
speaker3: i stay clear of it then.
speaker4: dex stops dealing to stare at ham, insulted-
speaker1: you sinuatin?
speaker3: just sayin i don't want to play.
speaker2: looks like dinner.
speaker1: rabbit is a rodent. man eat a rabbit, might's well eat a rat.
speaker1: simple country nigger, fraid to sit down an lose his little handful of change--
speaker2: he awful big to mess with.
speaker1: don't scare me none. i'm a steppin razor, man, i'm trouble on two legs.
speaker1: your draw, junebug. and don't be drippin sweat on my cards.
speaker5: excuse me, folks-
speaker5: yall heard about the show we puttin on at the honeydripper saturday night?

speaker1: i expect there'll be a nice turnout for bertha mae tomorrow. 
speaker2: folks who wouldn't have nothin to do with her when she was alive.
speaker1: some of them, maybe. you still got to pay your respects.
speaker2: slick gonna have to find him a new ride.
speaker1: that's a terrible thing to say-
speaker2: that's how the man gets over, is all, sugarin up to some woman got a job or a bankroll-
speaker1: it's no way to live.
speaker2: just how it is out in the world, baby- man got to walk through the gates of to get a piece of cheese.
speaker2: you're not so young any more, lose hold of what little you got- he just shakes his head-

speaker1: if you lose the club i'm sure you'll find something else. 
speaker2: in this town? like what?
speaker1: you know anytime you want i could get miss amanda to ask her husb-
speaker2: "watch yo feet, mr. mayor, i done just mopped the flo! " delilah tries to ignore this-
speaker1: you work so hard at the lounge, and what it brings in-
speaker2: isn't even as much as what you make polishin that white lady's silver.
speaker1: i didn't say that.
speaker2: you didn't have to.
speaker1: it'll just have to work out, then.
speaker1: meetin gonna start without i'm there.
speaker2: your soul not the one needs savin, baby.

speaker1: oh she cried son, son don't you worry oh you know the lord always fix a way 
speaker1: she left me standing standing along the highway oh wondering- which way i must go!
speaker1: as i walked- all along the highway i was seeking my lord each day she left me standing standing along the highway just wondering- which way must i go!

speaker1: the highway of life, brothers and sisters, will twist you and turn you, it will run you this way and that way, it will tempt you with many a detour-- for the highway of life, brothers and sisters, is designed to lead us astray! he gets an `amen!' from someone in the crowd- 
speaker1: it meanders away from the light and into the darkness, it tires our legs and whittles away at our spirits!
speaker1: it snares us with the thorns and thistles of wickedness, it is paved with the black deeds of sinners and laid out on a crooked plan! that's not the road we want to be on, brothers and sisters, that's not the path we need to follow!
speaker1: we got to get on that other road! the one that leads to salvation! the one that leads to glory! the one that leads to the right hand of praise his name!
speaker2: praise the lord!
speaker1: the thoroughfare i'm talking about, the righteous path we got to tread, is called the highway to heaven, and by the great lord above it is straight and it is narrow!

speaker1: reverend cutlip keep your eyes on the prize and your feet on the street and you won't ever make a mis-step, you won't ever falter, you won't ever stumble, because will show you the way! 
speaker2: but you got to pay attention to who it is walking beside you, brothers and sisters, got to be wary against those who will hold you back from your journey! there's many a loved one got to be left behind! cause you either on the road or you lost in the wilderness!

speaker1: you either headed for glory or doomed to damnation! you either in with the lord or you in with the devil- and they aint no in-between! 
speaker2: tulsa aint so bad but for the smell-
speaker3: got them stockyards near the jail-
speaker2: that's right- and the flies. course, i had me in a cell in georgia once, six other men, didn't have no window atall.
speaker3: must of got caught on one a them freights.

speaker1: yeah, aint no free ride allowed through georgia. and the food there- 
speaker2: paltry-
speaker1: paltry aint the word for it. breakfast was a joke, lunch was a rumor-
speaker2: -and dinner was a anecdote.
speaker1: spose you been locked in that box.
speaker2: or one just like it.
speaker3: well you wake up in the morning hear the bing-bong ring- walk up to the table and see the same thing all imonna tell you knife, a fork and a pan if you say a thing about it you're in trouble with the man the men join him on the chorus-
speaker4: let the midnight special shine its light on me oh let the midnight special shine its ever-lovin light on me- sonny turns to face them-
speaker2: you a singer, young man?

speaker1: singer, guitar player- imonna be on the radio some day. people gonna know my name. 
speaker2: keep thinkin that way, young man. judge gatlin don't choose to work you into your grave, you just might do it.
speaker1: if you ever go to houston don't you stagger don't you fight cause the sheriff will arrest you you're in the cooler for the night-

speaker1: hear tell miss bertha mae passed. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: she lived it how she sang it. ty tries to ignore him, looks down the rails-
speaker1: waitin for somebody.
speaker1: aint nobody on that train gonna change your luck, tyrone. gonna have to save your own self.

speaker1: what you know about anything? 
speaker2: oh, nothin much.
speaker2: but i know you from way back.

speaker1: a mournful end for a wayward sinner. 
speaker2: she always seemed at peace with herself.
speaker1: the company she kept, the life she led-
speaker2: i never knew bertha mae to do hurt to a living soul.
speaker1: we're all hoping to see you get over and accept the lord tonight, delilah.
speaker2: i'm hoping so too.
speaker1: you been lingering at the threshold long enough, sister. time to step ahead.

speaker1: tyrone- got somebody gettin off here? 
speaker2: supposed to be.
speaker1: what's the party's name?
speaker2: sam- guitar sam-- don't know his birth name-
speaker1: he's comin here?
speaker1: yo, nat! guitar sam get on this train?
speaker3: naw, man. he's in the hospital back in little rock.
speaker2: hospital?

speaker1: you know music folks- whatever he was doin, he must have done too much of it. 
speaker2: well, brother- maybe he be in tomorrow.
speaker3: somebody didn't show up.
speaker4: wish they'd made you instead of blind.

speaker1: well i had my fun if i don't get well no more well i had my fun if i don't get well no more my head is spinnin and i'm goin down slow- 
speaker2: man don't take care of hisself- out drinkin and jazzin the women every night-

speaker1: don't make any difference now. 
speaker2: got so bad, i heard there was some ole boy goes around pretendin to be guitar sam, fill out the gigs he misses. does pretty well for hisself, what i hear- ty pauses on the keyboard-
speaker1: somebody we could find?
speaker2: hell, i don't know. just a story i heard.
speaker1: there must have been a first one.
speaker2: first what?
speaker1: back slavery days, they had the ones that worked in the big house. might not of had shoes always, but their pants didn't have no holes and they didn't pick no cotton.
speaker2: house niggers.
speaker1: that's how they called em. they must of had all their african kinda instruments- drums, shakers, some kind of banjo thing- but the piano-
speaker2: didn't bring no piano over on them ships from africa.

speaker1: the piano was just sittin there in the white folks' big room, all polished up-- and i figure this one boy, he goes past fifteen, twenty times a day, running the corner of his eye over it. and he's there when they play, the masters, doin all their minuets and whatever- ty plays something like a minuet- 
speaker1: -him standing there with a tray of white people food pretendin not to have a thought in his head, might be only some dust hangin in the air for all they know- but he's watchin the fingers, see, watchin them keys work. this old boy, the first one, he can play alla them africa kinda instruments, he can play mud if you give him the key and the tempo, he's got music in his head, in his heart, in every piece of him there's music.
speaker2: down to the bones--
speaker1: and one day the masters is away, huntin foxes or some rich white people thing they get up to, and he's alone in the room with that piano and he comes over and sits down on the bench-
speaker2: watch out now-
speaker1: -and he spreads his fingers out the way he seen the minuet player do- and he- ty hits a minor chord, lets it decay-
speaker1: and he thinks- `lord help me, i could do some damage with this.'
speaker3: a silence. maceo is moved by the scene-
speaker2: would have liked to been there. i mean to hear the cat play, not none of the rest of it.
speaker1: mace, imonna lose my club.
speaker2: old man toussaint finds out you stole his liquor, you like to lose more than that-
speaker1: i got no more cards to play-
speaker2: maybe if you was to go down, see lucky hardaway in person-
speaker1: i aint kissin up to no cokey-nose, conk-headed-
speaker1: what the that sposed to be?
speaker2: some kind of guitar.
speaker1: a guitar has got a hole in it, that's where the sound comes from. that boy must be bout three bricks shy of a load upstairs.

speaker1: they gone and arrest him! 
speaker2: arrested who?
speaker1: sonny. the high sheriff arrested him and sold him over to judge gatlin.
speaker2: who's sonny?
speaker1: sonny that was here yesterday morning.
speaker2: sonny that got a screw loose is why they arrested him. maceo, make a noise on that- maceo plucks a string. not much of a sound-
speaker3: it's electric-
speaker2: i plug a chunk of stove wood into the wall i get more music out of it than that mess gonna make.
speaker3: naw, man, it don't work unless it's hooked up to the juice, see? you got the juice, you don't need the hollow inside the box, the music just runs straight from the strings through this wire and comes out-
speaker3: -your amplifier. which is what this thing must be.
speaker1: sonny said he fix radios in the army.

speaker1: sonny didn't do nothin but feed bedbugs in anybody's army, and some of em crawled in his head. surprised if that boy got the wit to pick cotton. judge gatlin bought himself a droolin what you want to amplify a guitar for anyway? 
speaker2: daddy-
speaker1: less you gonna sit over on your chair and play them little charley christian kind of riffs-
speaker3: a sideman-
speaker1: sit over there and be all clean and polite. guitar hasn't been up front since them old and moan blues shouters, sit their blind on the corner hollerin for pennies-
speaker3: old time music-
speaker2: daddy, sonny didn't do nothin to be arrested for! he was just lookin for work.
speaker3: they hung colored boys for less than that, darlin. least on the work gang they feed em, keep their strength up.
speaker2: but he doesn't belong there!
speaker3: you know, guitar sam plays him an electric, but i don't think it's this no-hole kind of deal.

speaker1: i hope he plugs it in the wrong socket some night, lectrocutes his sorry no-show ass! 
speaker1: now if he did show up here-- and our power was to go out again while he was playing-
speaker2: i think i fixed it good this time, ty.
speaker1: so he come out and plugs his ax in-
speaker2: he come out lookin good, from what i hear. all kind of spangly pants and jacket, got his name spelled out on the back-
speaker1: clothes, right-
speaker2: hair all slick and shiny, flash some gold teeth at them gals, got his sax man behind him, maybe a piano, harmonica, drums-
speaker1: you remember that night the lights went out in the esquire club in mobile?
speaker2: and somebody took off with the gate? stole the whole register off the counter-
speaker1: they didn't hold it against reggie porter, did they?

speaker1: naw- it was his place that got robbed. 
speaker2: didn't hold it against him, didn't expect no money back for the show-
speaker1: they all too busy diving on the pot of that tonk game got interrupted-
speaker2: and nobody suspected it might be reggie porter hisself that pulled them lights, did they?
speaker1: aw, no, ty, we can't-
speaker2: china doll, you mind the place while we're gone! come on, man, we got work to do.
speaker3: where you going, daddy?
speaker2: i promise the people guitar sam, they gonna get guitar sam!

speaker1: why you interested in this boy? 
speaker2: got a job for him.
speaker1: must be doin pretty good for yourself out there, tyrone, you hirin new people on.

speaker1: passing well, yeah- 
speaker2: but this boy-
speaker1: name is sonny-
speaker2: he's payin off his debt to society right now, and if i was to pull him out of the field it would cost the county-
speaker1: judge gatlin payin three a day for prison labor.
speaker2: you gonna pay me four for the duration of his sentence?
speaker1: which might be- ?
speaker2: -as long as i care to make it.
speaker1: well, i was counting on more of a one-time deal- if i could just rent him out for the weekend-
speaker2: fifty dollars.
speaker2: it's not just the money. there's legalistic principles involved here. public safety issues-
speaker1: i pay you sunday morning?
speaker2: you pay me now or you forget about it.
speaker1: i don't have it now.

speaker1: you think you too smart for the rest of us, don't you, tyrone? think you can go it by yourself. 
speaker1: you'd rather eat roofin nails than come to me for a favor-
speaker2: it's not a favor if i got to pay-
speaker1: oh, you gonna pay all right. you don't hand me that money sunday mornin, you got yourself a new partner. same deal as i got with toussaint. how'd that be?
speaker2: you'll get the fifty.
speaker1: and that wife of yours-
speaker2: delilah-
speaker1: them fried chicken sandwiches- if i was to come by, now and then, check up on my interests-
speaker2: she be happy to fix you whatever you want.
speaker1: my wife's cookin would gag a maggot.
speaker2: different people got different kinds of talents.

speaker1: this the one? 
speaker2: you got any ideas about turning rabbit on me, you best get rid of em now.
speaker3: you payin my way out?
speaker2: till monday.
speaker3: how come?
speaker2: you like draggin that cotton sack?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: then don't ask questions.

speaker1: this size, right, but it's got to shine. 
speaker2: and when you need this?
speaker1: tonight.
speaker2: that's a tall order.
speaker1: it's got to happen.
speaker2: you know, i do my best work, my fastest work, when i'm happy.
speaker1: yeah, i spose you do-
speaker2: you gone make me happy, baby?
speaker1: uhm- you come by the club tonight, we havin a special show. tell em at the door you my guest-
speaker2: food aint the only thing a woman needs three times a day.
speaker1: wouldn't hurt you to skip a few meals.

speaker1: what's that, baby? 
speaker2: boy's gonna need time to try that jacket on- see how it feels. later, nadine- he is gone-

speaker1: you got to do somethin with this boy's head, darlin. they might not know what the real sam look like, but it aint this. 
speaker2: i can try.
speaker3: and what exactly i'm supposed to do?
speaker1: you gone stand up there with that contraption you got an play guitar sam numbers.
speaker3: hell, i do that with my eyes closed.
speaker1: we could get the audience to close theirs we be better off.
speaker4: ty- maceo pops his head in the front door-

speaker1: i tracked mr. trenier down- 
speaker2: let's hit it.
speaker3: bye, daddy.
speaker4: you know what you're doing?
speaker3: i fix mama's hair all the time.
speaker4: but you aint been to that school yet.
speaker3: you go to school to learn your guitar?
speaker4: no.
speaker3: i might pick up some new things at beauty school but mostly it's for my certificate, and that is `a ticket to adventure'- that's what it says in the brochure. people lookin for beauty all over the world.
speaker4: you want to watch out for them wires sticking down- don't look safe.

speaker1: yeah- power's always going out, people getting shocks and whatnot- 
speaker2: somebody ought to fix it. she searches under the counter for something-
speaker1: `a career in beauty is like money in the bank.' says that in the brochure too. plus it isn't physically taxin.
speaker2: yeah, i can't see no pretty thing like you behind a plow.
speaker1: i had the rheumatic fever when i was little, left me with a weak heart.
speaker2: oh. mine been actin funny too- since i laid eyes on you.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: just some ole moonshine they keep around.
speaker2: what you gonna do with it?
speaker1: they always joke about how this stuff'll straighten your hair right out-

speaker1: mr. time trenier- that's a name to be reckoned with. 
speaker1: story goes that you used to play with buddy bolden.
speaker2: played with most all of em down there.
speaker1: and king oliver-
speaker2: one band falls apart you find yourself another one. never any shortage of bands, down new awlins.
speaker3: i didn't know you was givin lessons.
speaker2: pays the rent. almost.
speaker3: you interested in a playin job?
speaker2: your place?
speaker1: it's uhm- backin up a man on the electric guitar?

speaker1: if you can pay, i can play. 
speaker2: got to dress sharp.
speaker3: it aint like a all-night thing- you just start out and there's gonna be a accident- ty shoots maceo a look-
speaker1: accident.
speaker2: sudden loss of power. lights out.
speaker1: it's your gig, man.
speaker2: eight o'clock. this aint colored people time and it sure aint new awlins time. i mean eight o'clock on the money.
speaker1: if you got the green i'm on the scene.
speaker2: that's a deal then.
speaker3: you know any drummers?
speaker1: i'll bring you one.
speaker2: nothin fancy, he just got to keep time-
speaker1: time is my name.

speaker1: twenny-four, twenny-five, twenny- six, twenny-seven, twenny-eight. 
speaker2: owe me thirty.
speaker1: book says twenny-eight.
speaker2: dollar fifty every hundred pound, and i picked-
speaker1: two dollars deducted for stones.
speaker2: i didn't put no stones in the sack.
speaker1: we mill the cotton, there's always stones.
speaker2: but there wasn't none in my sack-
speaker1: we take off two dollars a week, always have. aint that right, junebug?
speaker3: yes suh. been that way my whole life.
speaker4: ham is furious but has nowhere to go with it-
speaker5: you gonna take your pay, son, or give it up to charity?
speaker6: wouldn't let nobody mess with my money like that.
speaker2: they took the same two dollars off yours.
speaker6: yeah, and you could pave a highway with the rocks i threw in that mess.
speaker6: you country nigros let the crackers run you like dogs-
speaker2: that sheriff wasn't here i'd snap your neck, boy.
speaker5: don't let me stop you.
speaker5: but first you gonna sign that ledger like you sposed to. don't want nobody cryin they didn't get their due.

speaker1: mr. purvis? 
speaker2: people call me ty or they call me pinetop. mr.
speaker1: i just wanted to tell you- i preciate the opportunity.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: i know ever one of guitar sam's songs- know the chords, know the words-
speaker2: that's fine.
speaker1: china doll said how you was famous once.
speaker2: i was known, but i was never what you call famous.
speaker1: how'd you get your start?

speaker1: down in mobile there was an old cathouse professor name of joe dudlow, had had a stroke on one side, curled him all up- but he kept on pluggin. i used to come out and play his left hand for him. 
speaker2: how old you were?
speaker1: thirteen, fourteen. this one night it was goin hot and heavy and joe just passed, right there at the piano, in the middle of black bottom stomp. they propped him up at the bar, stuck a drink in his hand, and told me to keep poundin them ivories. there was a meanness hanging over them juke joints, there was murder in the air. you stopped playin for a minute, it come down like a flock of crows.
speaker2: this is you-
speaker1: big band days, on the road. if a railroad train run through it, we played it.
speaker2: `reginald erskine'.
speaker1: big tall light-skin fella out of carolina, said he's part cherokee. couldn't play nothin, but he waved his little stick and had this long greasy hair he throw around like cab calloway.
speaker2: and you were the piano man.

speaker1: piano man, arranger, you name it. 
speaker2: that must of been somethin, see the country first class.
speaker1: i don't know about first class, but we seen the country.
speaker2: how come you stopped?
speaker1: got tired of carrying another man's water. didn't want to die in no colored hotel some night in who-knows-where arkansas.
speaker1: met delilah and wanted something of my own.
speaker2: well you don't have nothing to worry about, mr. pinetop. i won't let you down tonight.
speaker1: no- i don't spose you will. ty gets up and goes into the back.

speaker1: how could you do that? 
speaker2: imonna put that back and double-
speaker1: you don't go gamblin with my baby's money!
speaker2: i had to send off the advance pay or the man don't come and play-
speaker1: i don't care what you took it for, i saved that money up for china doll-
speaker1: -and you got no business puttin your fingers on it!
speaker2: china doll don't need any school, baby, she could walk into one of them shops right this minute and get a job!
speaker1: there's got to be some line you won't cross, some thing you won't do-
speaker2: the world starts throwin me breaks, woman, maybe i'll catch religion and walk the straight and narrow like them bible thumpers you sit up with, but till that day, i-

speaker1: all you sinners 
speaker1: train is leavin better jump on board!

speaker1: natives gettin restless. 
speaker2: how we doing?
speaker1: we gonna be full up. but the food- delilah comin in?
speaker2: what if i lost her?
speaker1: she won't let you down, ty-
speaker2: this aint gonna work, is it?
speaker1: we just got to play it out and see-

speaker1: guitar sam! 
speaker2: see if you can push another round of drinks while i stall em.
speaker3: then you gonna bring him out?
speaker4: sam! we come to hear the guitar man play! guitar sam!
speaker2: you be on those wires. give him three bars and then you pull it.
speaker3: i got a baseball bat under the counter, but you out here all alone-
speaker2: just get the liquor movin, mace, and keep that money where you can run with it.

speaker1: the lord don't want nobody to sit back suffering! he wants you to stand up! he wants you to rise up! he wants you to step forward! he wants you rush down into the merciful arms of his eternal salvation! 
speaker1: is there anyone out here tonight gonna answer his call? is there anyone out here tonight gonna come forward and be saved?

speaker1: the fire is heatin up, brothers and sisters, and judgement day is nigh! aint no time to hesitate, you got to come on down and take him into your heart! 
speaker1: that's right- come on down! they no turning back now- feel the lord's hand at your back- got to leave all them sinners behind!
speaker1: you got a voice in your heart, sister- that's the lord talking! you hear him?
speaker1: that voice telling you where you need to be right now! you just got to move your feet and get there!

speaker1: you look good. 
speaker2: damn-

speaker1: he looks good, doesn't he daddy? 
speaker2: honey, i want you to get right by that front door and take over collectin the cover charge. and if anything should happen- like go wrong or something- you just step out and walk away from the club, hear?
speaker1: what's gonna go wrong?
speaker2: oh- our guitar sam here gets them soldier boys jumping it could get a little rough- just be on your toes, that's all.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: china doll-
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: you know there aint a thing in this world i wouldn't do for you. even if i mess up sometimes, you know that, right?
speaker1: i know that, daddy.
speaker2: you go on, now.
speaker2: well, you look like something might of come outa new orleans-

speaker1: i forget to tell you- i fixed your hook-up. 
speaker2: my what?
speaker1: where the electricity comes in? it was all-
speaker3: ty!
speaker3: we got a situation out there-
speaker2: you don't think i know that?
speaker3: got the law in the house.

speaker1: didn't think we'd be seeing you so soon! 
speaker2: got a nice crowd in here tonight, tyrone. see them army uniforms-
speaker1: yeah, well we got ourselves this special attraction, see, and-
speaker2: chicken.
speaker1: huh?

speaker1: them ribs outside smell real good, but i got my heart set on some of your delilah's fried chicken. 
speaker2: right-
speaker1: she made it last saturday at the mayor's but ole clayford gentry was up from eufala and he got the drumsticks.
speaker1: i'm partial to dark meat.
speaker2: see, the thing is-
speaker1: she is back there cookin, aint she?
speaker2: the situation we got, sheriff, what with this special guest come up from louisiana- what it means is- uhm-
speaker2: maybe if you were to come back in-
speaker3: regular or spicy?
speaker3: they both take the same time to fix up, i just got to know which.

speaker1: have to make mine regular. i like the spicy fine but it always come back to nip me later. 
speaker2: it's important not to bite off more than you can chew. yall just make yourself at home.
speaker2: good luck tonight, baby.
speaker1: slap some maynaise on it!
speaker3: might want to wait over there, sheriff. don't want to scare off the customers-
speaker3: oh lord-
speaker3: so here's what you all been waitin for, people, the noted performer and recordin star-

speaker1: -guitar sam!!!! 
speaker2: sorry, folks- must of got kicked on the train.
speaker3: what's this fool playin at?

speaker1: gonna hold may baby as tight as i can tonight she'll know i'm a mighty man! have you heard the news? there's good rockin tonight! 
speaker1: have you heard the news? there's good rockin tonight!
speaker2: thank you,
speaker1: meet me at midnight behind the barn don't you worry i'll do you no harm
speaker1: make sure to bring my rockin shoes tonight i'm gonna rock away all of my blues!

speaker1: have you heard the news? there's good rockin tonight- have you heard the news? there's good rockin tonight- 
speaker2: oh my soul.
speaker3: don't tire yourself out, poppa.
speaker2: i believe we do.

speaker1: alla you men grab hold of a woman! you can't find a woman, just grab hold of yourselves- we gonna play this one slow and tight. 
speaker1: they did the boogie real slow with the blue lights way down low they did the boogie real slow with the blue lights way down low ty joins him-
speaker2: they did the boogie real slow with the blue lights way down low ty takes the verse-
speaker3: i went to a party with a bobby sox i started swingin all she would do was rock

speaker1: hundred forty-two, forty-three, forty-four, five, six, seven, eight, nine- hundred fifty. and they's another fifty in here- 
speaker1: lucky hardaway don't mind some change, does he?
speaker2: what if mr. hardaway was to say let the chumps keep their change, he wants the club back one way or the other?
speaker2: how'd that be?
speaker3: well- he'd have to take it up with my bidness partner.
speaker2: that sheriff your partner?
speaker3: yeah, and he's twice as mean as he is ugly.
speaker2: you must want this club awful bad, brother.

speaker1: you maybe know this already, but that aint no guitar sam. 
speaker2: you is a lie! a shocked silence.
speaker2: you is a lie, boy! i known sammy since he's drinkin mama's milk, hell, i known his mama herself when she live up to plaquemine- and you aint him! the audience looks to sonny for his defense-
speaker3: that's creole guitar sam you talkin bout, pops. i'm delta guitar sam.
speaker2: as long as we straight on that.
speaker4: get on outa there and let the man play!
speaker3: imonna play you one i come up with today while i was havin my hair cut-

speaker1: oh china doll can't get you offa my mind! oh china doll i can't get you offa my mind! if you be my baby gonna leave all them others behind! 
speaker1: oh china doll think about you day and night! oh china doll i think about you day and night! can't forget you baby oh when you gonna treat me right?
speaker2: ty looks around the crowded, rocking room-

speaker1: yall in my house, here, gentlemen. don't have no fightin, don't have no killin, don't have none of that dismal nonsense in my house. understand? what's your name son? 
speaker2: dex- dexter moncrief.
speaker1: and you?
speaker3: hamilton drinkwater.
speaker1: well, gentlemen, this is the night there won't be no pitiful song written bout you two killin each other. don't nothin rhyme with `moncrief' anyhow.
speaker4: got a problem here?
speaker1: these young men seem to brought something in for our collection.
speaker4: yours first.
speaker1: now yours.
speaker1: yall still need to mess with each other, you go outside and do it.
speaker5: ty lets go of their wrists-
speaker1: this world is full of people got no use for us, like to see us in the grave. we don't need to give em any help.
speaker6: sonny keeps playing-
speaker7: oh china doll got to let you into my heart! oh china doll got to let you into my heart! i surrender darlin i loved you from the very start!

speaker1: sound like the music movin on again, darlin. the way it always do. 
speaker1: time to make room for whoever comin next.

speaker1: that boy can play some. 
speaker2: you leavin?
speaker1: aint needed round here no more.
speaker2: where you headed?
speaker1: oh-- down the road.
speaker3: tyrone-
speaker3: who you talkin to out here?
speaker2: just myself.

