speaker1: screenplay by david koepp 
speaker1: based on the novel by michael crichton

speaker1: 87 miles southeast of nublar 
speaker2: cathy! don't wander off! cathy keeps wandering. mrs. bowman cathy, come back! you can look for shells right here!
speaker3: leave her alone.
speaker2: what about snakes?
speaker3: there's no snakes on a beach. let her have fun, for once.

speaker1: please be quiet, please be quiet please be quiet... 
speaker1: well, hello there!
speaker2: the table is set. mrs. bowman calls out.
speaker3: cathy, sweetheart! lunch is ready!

speaker1: the hurricane seemed like a disaster at the time, but now i think it was a blessing, nature's way of freeing those animals from their human confines. of giving them another chance to survive, but this time as they were meant to, without man's interference. 
speaker2: thank you, john. mr. ludlow?
speaker3: i second the motion, mr. chairman, please poll the members by a show of hands.
speaker2: all those in favor of ingen corporate resolution 213c, please signify your approval by raising your right hand.

speaker1:  
speaker2: you're him, aren't you?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: the guy. the scientist. i saw you on tv. i believed you.
speaker1: i was misquoted. i was merely speculating on the evolutionary scenario of a lost world. i never said i was in any such place.
speaker3: whom shall i tell mr. hammond is calling?
speaker1: ian malcolm

speaker1: not an animal lover? 
speaker2: not really.

speaker1: ian! don't linger in the doorway like an ingenue, come in, come in! malcolm steps further into the room. hammond it's good to see you. it really is. 
speaker2: resentful.
speaker1: when you have a lot of time to think, it's funny who you remember. it's the people who challenged you. it is the quality of our opponents that gives our accomplishments meaning. i never told you how sorry i was about what happened after we returned.

speaker1: you were right -- and i was wrong. there! did you ever think you'd hear me say that? spectacularly wrong. instead of observing those animals, i tried to control them. i squandered an opportunity and we still know next to nothing about their lives. not their lives as man would have them, behind electric fences, but in the wild. behavior in their natural habitat, the impossible dream of any paleontologist. i could have had it, but i let it slip away. thank for site b. 
speaker1: malcolm just looks at him for a long moment.

speaker1: the hatchery, in particular? you know my initial yields had to be low, far less than one percent, that's a thousand embryos for every single live birth. genetic engineering on that scale implies a giant operation, not the spotless little laboratory i showed you. 
speaker2: i don't believe you.
speaker1: isla nublar was just a showroom, ian, something for the tourists, site b was the factory floor. we built it first, on isla sorna, eight-some miles from nublar.
speaker2: no, no, no, no, no, no . . .
speaker1: after the accident at the park, a hurricane wiped out our facility on site b. we had to evacuate and leave the animals to fend for themselves. and they did. for four years i've fought to keep them safe from human meddling, now i want you to go there and document them.
speaker2: are you out of your mind? i still have nightmares, my reputation's a joke, my leg is shot -- you think i need more of that?
speaker1: it would be the most extraordinary living fossil record the world has ever seen.
speaker2: so what?
speaker1: i've been putting this together for over a year.
speaker1: i have personal suggestions for your entire team, phone numbers, contact people. they won't believe you about what they're going to see, so don't bother trying to convince them. just use my checkbook to get them there. i'll fund your expedition through my personal accounts, as such money and equipment as you need, but only if you leave immediately. if we hesitate, all will be lost.
speaker2: john . . .
speaker1: you'll need an animal behaviorist, someone with unimpeachable credentials. i believe you already know sarah harding. she's got theories about parenting and nurturing among hunter/scavengers i bet she'd be dying to prove on a scale like this. if you convince her to go, it'll be a major coup. when she publishes, the scientific community must take it seriously.
speaker1: your documentation, you should use forensic photographic methods, hasselbladt still cameras, high definition video. when the trick photography analysts take your evidence apart, make it impossible for them to say there was enhancement or computer graphic imaging. oh, this is very important -- avoid the island interior at all costs. stick to the outer rim. everything you need to know can be found there. vindication lies on the outer rim.
speaker2: i'm not going, john.
speaker1: ian, you are my last chance to give something of real value to the world. i can't walk so far and leave no footprints; die and leave nothing with my name on it. i will not be known only for my failures. and you will not allow yourself to go down in history as a lunatic. you're too smart. you'e too proud. dr. malcolm. please. this is a chance at redemption. for both of us. there's no time to equivocate, we must seize it now, before -- he stops, staring over malcom's shoulder. malcom turns. peter ludlow, still in his overcoat, is standing in the doorway to the bedroom. he looks back and forth from hammond to malcolm suspiciously.
speaker3: hello, uncle john. dr. malcolm.
speaker2: find someone else.

speaker1: so, you two were just, uh, telling old campfire stories, were you? 
speaker2: do me a favor. don't pretend for a second that you and i don't know the truth. you can convince time magazine and the skeptical inquirer of whatever you want, but i was there.
speaker1: you signed a non-disclosure agreement before you went to the island that expressly forbade you from discussing anything you saw. you violated that agreement.
speaker2: you cost me my livelihood. that on which i relied to support my children.
speaker1: if your university felt you were causing it embarrassment by selling wild stories to hard copy, i hardly see how i am to--
speaker2: i didn't tell anything, i told the truth.
speaker1: you version of it.
speaker2: there are no versions of the truth! this isn't a corporate maneuver, it's my life.
speaker1: we made a generous compensatory offer for your injuries.
speaker2: it was a payoff and an insult. ingen never--
speaker1: ingen is my livelihood, dr.

speaker1: ajay? 
speaker2: how did you know?
speaker1: that cheap aftershave i send you every christmas, you actually wear it. i'm touched. sit down, sit down, what brings you to mombassa?
speaker2: you. tell me, roland, when was the last time you answered your phone?
speaker1: last time i plugged it in, i suppose. why?
speaker2: i got a call from a gentleman who's going to costa rica, or thereabouts. if he's to be believed, it's a most, uh, unique expedition. and very well-funded.
speaker1: well, i'm a very well-funded old son of a you go.
speaker2: but alone? we always had great success together, you and i.
speaker1: just a little bit too much, i think.
speaker2: how do you mean?
speaker1: a true hunter doesn't mind if the animal wins. if it escapes. but there weren't enough escapes from you and me, ajay. i've decided to spend a bit less time in the company of death. maybe i just feel too close to it my--
speaker3: is that supposed to be an insult?
speaker1: i can think of none greater.
speaker3: buzz off, you silly old bastard.
speaker1: what do i have to do to pick a fight with you, bring your mother into it?
speaker3: are you kidding? i could take you with one arm tied down.
speaker1: really?

speaker1: sorry. we were saying? 
speaker2: you broke that idiot's jaw for no reason other than your boredom. tell the truth, roland. aren't you even interested in knowing this expedition's quarry?
speaker1: ajay. go on up to my ranch, take a look around the trophy room, and tell me what kind of quarry you think could possibly be of any interest to me.

speaker1: hyenas. ace face is the striped snout. 
speaker2: closer?
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: but the view would --
speaker1: no cliffs.
speaker2: sarah.
speaker1: f8 circling north. f1 straight through, disrupting. herd moving, stamping. there's f7. straight through. f8 angling through from the north.
speaker2: dr. harding.
speaker1: brooding behavior in evidence at the kill site, pups are ushered forward and adults help them eat, pulling flesh away from the carcass and-- a telephone rings.

speaker1: we leave in twenty-four hours. five member team. 
speaker1: eddie carr's handling all our equipment and he'll be there to maintain it. he's designing special field trailers now, top of the line mobile research units.
speaker2: no, no, look at the plans, henry, you can't place that strut laterally, it has to be crosswise, look at the

speaker1: sorry, eddie! specs say it can't deform at 12,000 psi, we had to test it 
speaker2: any damage?
speaker3: minimal.
speaker2: "minimal" is too much. it has to be light, it has to be strong --
speaker3: light and strong, light and strong, sure, why not, it's only impossible.
speaker2: you are an academic.
speaker3: former academic. now i actually make things. i don't just talk.
speaker2: you think i'm all talk, eddie?
speaker3: it doesn't matter what i think.
speaker2: is there anything we've forgotten? anything at all?
speaker4: hi, dad.
speaker2: kelly! what are you doing here?
speaker4: vacation. i'm all yours. you didn't forget, did you? she pulls back and looks at him. kelly did you?

speaker1: okay, karen is expecting you in half an hour. you only have to stay with her one night, she'll put you on a bus in the morning and your mother will be at the station when you get there. 
speaker2: i don't even know this woman.
speaker1: well, i do, and she's fantastic. she'll take you to the museum, maybe to a movie if you play your cards right. you're going to have a fantastic time.
speaker2: stop saying fantastic. where are you going?
speaker1: i can't tell you. but i'll be back within a week.
speaker2: my vacation is over in a week.
speaker1: i'll make it up to you this summer.
speaker2: i'm your daughter all the time, you know. not just when it's convenient.
speaker1: very hurtful. your mother tell you to say that?
speaker2: no, dad. i have thoughts of my own once in a while.
speaker1: is that kid still bothering you?
speaker2: which one?
speaker1: you know, at the bus stop. with the hair?
speaker2: that was about a year ago.
speaker1: well, is he?
speaker2: no. richard talked to his parents.
speaker1: that richard. eddie ian, come here a minute!
speaker2: i could come with you.
speaker1: out of the question. you'd miss the gymnastics trials. you've been training for that for a year.
speaker2: i don't care about the trials, i want to be with you. i could be your research assistant, like i was in austin.
speaker1: this is nothing like austin. forget about it.
speaker2: you like to have kids, you just don't want to be with them, do you?
speaker1: i'm not like you wan me to be. i've what i can be.

speaker1: couldn't -- we just -- airlift -- into the -- island? 
speaker2: dr. harding insisted we go by sea! helicopters are too disruptive. these aren't piles of bones you'll be studying this time, dr. juttson, they live, they breathe, and they react! juttson looks at him skeptically -- -- and throws up.

speaker1: so what's your story, nick? 
speaker2: i was a cameraman for nightline for six years, been freelance since '91.
speaker1: that must be interesting. what drew you there?
speaker2: women. 'bout eighty percent female in greenpeace.
speaker1: very noble of you. you don't think you're bringing that thing onto the island, do you?
speaker2: hey, i wouldn't want to spook the woolly mammoths.
speaker1: you think this is all a joke?
speaker2: oh, please. how am i supposed to keep a straight face when -- -- johnny cash here tells me i'm going to skull island?
speaker1: ian's a very good friend of mine.
speaker2: he doesn't need a friend, he needs a shrink.
speaker1: i believe in him.
speaker2: come on, there's only one reason any of us are here. his check cleared.
speaker1: drop the cynical pose. you can't pull it off while playing donkey kong.
speaker3: there it is!

speaker1: be back in three days, but keep the satellite phone on and your radio tuned to the frequency i specified in case we need you sooner. 
speaker2: don't worry. i've lived around here all my life, these islands are completely --

speaker1: lindstradt air rifle. fires a 
speaker2: is there an antidote?
speaker1: like if you shoot yourself in the foot? wouldn't matter. you'd be dead before you realized you'd accidentally pulled the trigger.
speaker3: oh --
speaker4: -- my --
speaker1: --
speaker5: it's beautiful!
speaker4: stegosaurus, family stegosauridae, infraorder stegosauria, suborder thyreophora. length, adult male, estimate twenty-five to thirty feet.
speaker5: that was a pair bond! a family group, even, long after that infant was nestbound!
speaker4: i want to see the nesting ground!

speaker1: lone nest -- not colonial. i don't see an egg clutch... 
speaker2: the empty shells are crushed and trampled. the young stay in the birth environment, that's conclusive!
speaker1: not without a shot of the nest.

speaker1: the others can only watch her, aghast. 
speaker2: she's gutty.
speaker3: she's nuts.

speaker1: ian, you're not insane! i'm so glad! 
speaker2: dr. malcolm -- the world -- owes you an apology.

speaker1: no more smoking. we leave no scent of any kind. no hair tonics, no cologne, seal all our food in plastic bags. we will observe and document, but we will not interact. 
speaker2: that's a scientific impossibility, you know. heisenberg uncertainty principle. whatever you study, you also change.
speaker3: what should i call this? "jurassic pork?" eddie, next to him, laughs.
speaker1: and let's forget about the high hide. we can't do this kind of work up in a tower, we need to be out in the field, as close to the animals as possible.
speaker4: i'm not surprised stegosaur lived in a family group, but there's never been anything in the fossil record to prove the carnivores did.
speaker1: why wouldn't they? look at hyenas, jackals, nearly all species of predator birds --
speaker4: that doesn't say a thing about t-rex, they could have been rogues. robert burke certainly thinks they were.
speaker1: we've got to see one to find out.
speaker2: no way.
speaker3: oh, my
speaker1: -- way we could safely --
speaker3: oh, no!
speaker5: fire!

speaker1: a campfire?! 
speaker2: no! water mixes the smoke billow, use dirt!
speaker1: who the started a campfire?! voice it was just to make lunch.
speaker1: oh ... man.

speaker1: you know you were putting yourself in a potentially dangerous situation, but you didn't bother to find out how dangerous before you leapt in. you don't have the faintest idea what's going on on this island! 
speaker2: what do you want to do, ian, lock her up for curiosity? where do you think she gets it?
speaker3: do you have chromium tapes? the others fog in high-
speaker4: -humidity, i know. highest lead density on the market.
speaker5: we've got a lot of heavy marching ahead of us. i'm not carrying anybody.
speaker6: i can keep up.
speaker1: you're going home. i'm sending a radio call for the boats. we'll all go down to the lagoon and wait for them.
speaker2: lighten up, ian, you sound like a high school vice-principal.
speaker1: i'm her father.
speaker6: sure, now.
speaker4: do you see any family resemblance here?
speaker1: you can't stay, kelly, that's it.
speaker2: if it's so dangerous, why'd you bring any of us?
speaker6: you're wrong, dad. i do know what's going on on this island.
speaker1: how could you possibly?
speaker6: because you said so. maybe nobody else believed you, but i always did.
speaker4: the kid scores with cheap sentiment.
speaker2: ian, if we recall the boat now, we've made two invasive landings in one day. that'll have to go in any paper i write, and it will leave room for people to say our findings were contaminated. you know the academic world as well as i do, once they smell blood in the water, you're dead. our presence has got to be one hundred percent antiseptic. that means if we bend a blade of grass, we bend it right back the way it-

speaker1: nick looks at sarah. 
speaker2: you were saying something about antiseptic?

speaker1: welcome to your dream come true, dr. burke. 
speaker2: i believe the large herbivores forage in open plains, like bison, which would explain the great variety of heat dots we're reading in the flatlands around this waterhole.
speaker1: then that's where we're going.
speaker2: hadrosaurus! carinthosaurus! maiasaurus!
speaker1: this is as good a place as any for base camp. first priority is the laser barriers, i want them all up and running in thirty minutes. half an hour, understand?
speaker3: cancel that, dieter.
speaker1: what? why?
speaker3: carnivores hunt near stream beds. do you want to set up base camp or an all-you-can-eat people bar?
speaker1: you heard his, dieter. find a new spot. and remember, we're after herbivores only -- no unnecessary risks. dieter sighs and goes to work. roland puts an arm around ludlow and pulls him aside.
speaker3: peter, if you want me to run your little camping trip, there are two conditions. first -- i'm in charge, and when i'm not around, dieter is. your job is to sign the checks, tell us we're doing a good job, and open your case of scotch when we have a good day. second condition -- my fee. you can keep it. all i want in exchange for my services is the right to hunt one of the tyrannosaurs. a male. buck only. why and how are my business. if you don't like either of those conditions, you're on your own. go ahead and set up your camp right here, or in a swamp, or in the middle of a rex nest, for all i care. but i've been on too many safaris with rich dentists to listen to any more suicidal ideas. okay?
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: good lad.

speaker1: pachycephalosaurus! 
speaker2: carnivore?
speaker1: huh? no! no, herbivore, late cretaceous. very unusual plant eater, see that distinctive domed skull? that's nine inches of solid bone.
speaker2: just get them out of the way, dieter.

speaker1: dieter. this is a round-up, not a war. use your powers of persuasion. 
speaker2: come on, come on, don't have all day!

speaker1: it matches the pictures. 
speaker2: it certainly does.

speaker1: where do you think you're going?! 
speaker2: to collect my fee.

speaker1: ajay. 
speaker2: do you wish to go where the animal has been, or where the animal is?

speaker1: why didn't you tell us about these guys, ian?! 
speaker2: because i didn't know! i don't have the faintest idea what they're doing here.
speaker3: ruining everything, that's what they're doing. you could choke on the diesel smoke already!
speaker4: ian, nothing we observe will be valid if we're trailing along in the wake of an army.
speaker5: "ingen." what's ingen?
speaker2: where does it say that?
speaker5: on the side of that one truck.
speaker6: ingen is a genetics corporation, isn't it?
speaker3: is that who we're really working for?! gene splicers?!
speaker2: no! we're an independently funded expedition.
speaker4: funded by whom?
speaker2: john hammond.
speaker6: but he's the head of ingen!
speaker3: you gotta be kidding. you dragged me out of greenpeace to be a corporate stooge? you couldn't get anybody else?
speaker5: yeah, what have you done, dad?
speaker4: we'd better keep moving, or we'll lose them.
speaker2: what are you doing to me, john?

speaker1: it's the rex nest. 
speaker2: make a blind here? wait for the buck to return?

speaker1: easy -- easy -- not too close! full extension! 
speaker2: nick turns away. he can't watch.

speaker1: ludlow. that's why hammond was in such a hurry for me to get here. he knew they were coming. 
speaker2: what do they want?
speaker1: they want their money back. to ingen, this island is nothing more than a bed investment.
speaker2: we should get back to base camp.
speaker1: i can't believe peter ludlow's running all this.
speaker3: he isn't. check out the guy walking past the fire.

speaker1: sarah he's the one in charge. 
speaker2: well, if that's true -- the man in charge just left camp.
speaker3: then this is our chance.
speaker2: our chance to do what?
speaker3: i don't know these guys, but i know 'em. i've seen 'em on japanese whalers, french barges trying to dump barrels of nuclear waste in the north atlantic. they're all the same. they spray us with water cannon when we try to stop 'em, sink our boats, and then call us crazy.
speaker4: why, nick. you are a tree-hugger.
speaker3: there' no reason for name calling.
speaker2: dr. juttson, please take kelly back to camp right away. leave the other car for us and we'll meet you there in an hour or so.
speaker5: what are you guys gonna do?
speaker2: exactly what john hammond wanted us to do.

speaker1: offering a little incentive. 
speaker2: what kind of gun is that?
speaker1: my father's .600 nitro express. made in 1904. karimojo bell gave it to him after he took down his last elephant. 8700 foot pound striking force.
speaker2: how close do you have to be?
speaker1: forty yards. less, maybe. i assume it'll take a slug in the brain case to bring him down.
speaker2: why not just use a scope and a poison dart and snipe him from a hill?
speaker1: or a laser beam from a satellite?
speaker2: you rally think this'll draw the parent?
speaker1: i once saw a bull elephant die charging a jeep. all the jeep had done was startle the bull's calves. i saw a lioness carry wounded prey four and a half miles, all the way back to its den, just to teach its cubs how to finish off a kill.
speaker2: killing lessons? heartwarming.
speaker1: rex won't be any different. it'll come.
speaker2: you're kidding yourself. an adult t-rex cares about one thing -- filling its own belly. it acts the way people wish they could, that's why everyone's fascinated by it. if people had the chance to see one dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine percent would -- he stops, an idea on his face. ludlow wait. why not? sedatives...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i hadn't planned on bringing carnivores back because of the liability risk, but i only thought of adults, it never occurred to me -- you are a billion dollar idea, my little f-
speaker1: what the you do that for?!
speaker2: had to. to keep him still for the trip.
speaker1: you've broken its leg!
speaker2: we've got to transport it seven thousand miles. would you prefer it bit off the leg of a crew member?

speaker1: what in christ's name is going on?! 
speaker2: isn't it obvious?

speaker1: nick, thank we didn't know if -- malcolm opens the rear door. 
speaker2: wait, don't ---

speaker1: do we have anyone up there? 
speaker2: malcolm is confronting nick.

speaker1: it has a broken leg! 
speaker2: so do it a favor and put it out of its misery!
speaker1: no! get in the car before they hear us!

speaker1: there they are! 
speaker2: what is that they have with them?

speaker1: this is exceedingly unwise. 
speaker2: too late to worry about that! hold him together, nick!
speaker1: just do whatever you have to do and get it out of here as quickly as possible.
speaker2: okay, there's the metatarsals -- tibia, fibula -- there it is! see it? that's a fracture, just above the epiphysis.
speaker3: that little black line?
speaker2: that little black line means death for this infant. the fibula won't heal straight, so the ankle joint can't pivot when he stands on his hind feet. the baby won't be able to run, and probably can't even walk. it'll be crippled, and a predator will pick it off before it gets more than a few weeks old.
speaker1: can you set up?
speaker2: it has to be temporary, something that'll break apart and fall off as the animal grows...
speaker1: think fast, sarah.

speaker1: what are they doing? why don't they hurry?! 
speaker2: give me the radio.

speaker1: give it more morphine! 
speaker2: we'll kill it with too much, we'll put it into respiratory arrest! i'm almost done. it, i need another adhesive, something pliable i can --

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: sarah, come in!
speaker3: it's moving. fast.

speaker1: hold it down, nick! 
speaker2: i'm trying! eddie is anybody there?!
speaker1: ian, get the bottle of amoxicillin and fill a syringe! quick injection of antibiotics and i can get it out of here!

speaker1: what do they want?! 
speaker2: what do you think they want?!
speaker3: that's impossible, they can't have the sensory equipment to track it all the way here!
speaker2: current evidence seems to be to the contrary, wouldn't you say?! give it

speaker1: ready? 
speaker2: wait!
speaker1: born free, as free as the wind blows.
speaker3: are you insane?!
speaker1: i swear to it works with lions sometimes! there we are -- your baby is free --
speaker4: they're going back into the jungle.

speaker1: thank thank malcolm's voice comes over the radio. malcolm kelly? are you all right? 
speaker2: uh huh.

speaker1: wait there. i'll come up in a minute. don't move, understand? kelly i understand. 
speaker2: note to dr. juttson -- tyrannosaurus rex does nurture its young.
speaker3: there's, uh -- there's an unwritten rule when a news crew is in a war zone. you stop the van every two miles and decide whether or not to go on. whether or not you feel lucky. one "no" from anybody in the group and you turn around right there, no question asked, nobody embarrassed. well? do we go on?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no.
speaker3: no way.
speaker1: all right. i'm satisfied with the evidence we have right now. i feel vindicated. john hammond will too. do you have enough to publish?
speaker2: they will come after me. but i can collect some stool samples, for dna with that, nick's tapes, and the rest of you to back me up, it should stand when we get back.
speaker1: what the is he sorry f-

speaker1: they're pushing us! 
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: they're pushing us over the cliff.

speaker1: catch! 
speaker2: we're sliding!
speaker1: climbs up if you can!

speaker1: eddie? 
speaker2: oh, now what?
speaker1: are you all right?! anything broken?
speaker3: i'm fine, i'm fine, i was scared, i thought you, are you okay?!
speaker1: i'm fine... i'm fine...
speaker4: that's what you think.

speaker1: trespassing, sabotage -- you could go to jail just for being here, did you know that? 
speaker2: don't start a legal argument with me, this island isn't your property, and neither are these animals!
speaker3: what are you doing here, burke? there's no tv cameras, what's the point?
speaker4: dr. juttson, you exist outside the classroom. i am amazed.
speaker5: are you looking for a problem?
speaker3: everyone, keep your voices down!
speaker6: back off, dieter.
speaker3: listen to me, by moving the baby rex into our camp, we changed the adults' perceived territory!
speaker1: their what?
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: that's why they persisted in destroying the trailers, they now feel they have to defend this entire area! we're not safe here.
speaker1: thanks to you people.
speaker2: hey, we came here to observe, you came here to strip-mine the place! it's a looter mentality, all you care about is what you can take.
speaker6: none of that matters. our communications equipment's been destroyed. if your radio and satellite phone were in those trailers that went off the cliff, and i'm guessing by the look on his face --

speaker1: if we can't stay in the rex's territory, we have to move tonight. 
speaker2: move where? our boat's not coming for two days, your airlift is waiting for an order you have no way to send -- ludlow refers to the charred and trampled satellite
speaker3: there's a communication center, here, in the old worker village. hammond put in some kind of renewable power source replenishing. it may still work. if we could get there, we could send a radio call for the airlift.
speaker4: how far is the village?
speaker3: i said if we could get there.
speaker4: well, how far is it?
speaker3: a day's walk, maybe more. that's not the problem.
speaker1: what is?
speaker3: the velociraptors. malcolm looks up sharply. ludlow our infrareds show their nesting sites are concentrated in the island interior. that's why we planned on keeping to the outer rim.
speaker5: what are velociraptors?
speaker6: carnivores. pack hunters. about six feet long, three or four hundred pounds, and very, very fast.
speaker5: i think we can handle ourselves against them.
speaker7: no. i'm quite certain you can't.
speaker1: look, we have two choices. we can hike back down to the lagoon, where we can sit for two days, in the open, next to a heavily used water source while we're waiting for your boat to arrive, or we can head for the village, where we might find some shelter and we can call for help.
speaker7: we'd never make it past the raptors. trust me, i have some experience in this matter.
speaker1: that may be. but you weren't with me at the time.

speaker1: it. 
speaker2: you all right?
speaker1: you ever heard of gambler's ruin?
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: a statistical phenomenon. says everything in the world goes in streaks. it's real, you see it everywhere -- in weather, in river flooding, in baseball, in blackjack, in stock markets. once things go bad, they tend to stay bad. bad things cluster. they go to together.
speaker2: feeling a bit blue, are we?
speaker1: just -- flawed. very deeply flawed.
speaker2: why did you come here?
speaker1: so that others would know about this place?
speaker2: why should they?
speaker1: because it exists.
speaker2: it'll still exit if they go on not knowing, won't it?
speaker1: yes. and people will live in the absence of truth.
speaker2: so the truth is more important to you than your life?
speaker1: i don't care about my life. but if i'd ever thought for a second that she would be in danger --
speaker2: she yours?

speaker1: somewhere on this island, there exits the greatest predator that ever lived. and the second greatest predator must take him down. 
speaker2: but why?
speaker1: you remember that guy, about twenty years ago, i forget his name, but he climbed everest without any oxygen, came down almost dead. and they asked him, "why did you go up there to die?" and he said "i didn't. i went up there to live."
speaker2: it's called self-testing. but in your case, it sounds more like self-destruction. a uniquely human characteristic. in fact, human beings destroy things so well that i sometimes think that's our function. maybe every few sons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the decks, and lets evolution proceed to his next phase. maybe death and destruction are our job, maybe we're supposed to destroy ourselves and every other living thing that- every person on the trail within earshot has stopped and is staring at malcolm, shaken by his words. roland grabs malcolm by the shirt collar and pulls him close, growling in his ear.
speaker1: tell you what. you can see whatever you want to, to me, but you will not spew any more nihilist rants at anyone else in the group. i'm fighting panic, and you push the wrong buttons. understand?

speaker1: i don't think -- my dad doesn't think we're going to make it. 
speaker2: your dad is wrong. about a lot more than he knows.
speaker3: nick catches up to roland.
speaker4: i think you should call a break.
speaker5: another half hour.
speaker4: some of them won't make another half hour. we didn't come this far to start dropping in the middle of the jungle. if you don't call it, i will.

speaker1: i can't believe you're still angry about that. 
speaker2: you know, it's very easy to criticize the first person who studies something.
speaker1: no, it's easy to criticize sloppy research and hasty conclusions.

speaker1: you know, even if we do get those tapes back, people are going to say it's just another hoax. ian malcolm's alien autopsy. 
speaker2: maybe. maybe not.
speaker1: ian, they will misplace our evidence, shoot holes in our testimony, and say some special effects genius created the animals. the only way people will ever believe that dinosaurs exist is if you dump a t-rex in the middle of times square.

speaker1: how long ago was this? 
speaker2: seven, eight minutes.
speaker1: then he's dead. nobody tells the little girl. last thing we need is screaming hysterics.
speaker3: we have to send someone to look for him!
speaker1: you go if you like, but we're not waiting for you. move it out!!

speaker1: looks like the worker village is down in there, about a mile and a half northeast from the base of these cliffs. 
speaker2: there must be a game trail, some kind of path that goes down there.
speaker1: they'll have to rest before we look for it. eat. sleep. two hours.

speaker1: there you are. your dad's looking for you. 
speaker2: i doubt that.
speaker1: oh, come on. go talk to him.
speaker2: why? he likes to be alone. i can stay with you.

speaker1: you hear something? 
speaker2: no. i feel something.
speaker1: oh, no.

speaker1: malcolm is frantic. 
speaker2: i gotta get down there!

speaker1: shhhh... shhhh... 
speaker2: get out of the way!

speaker1: how many rounds did you find for that weapon? 
speaker2: four, counting the one in the chamber.
speaker1: don't let it out of your hands again. can the kid walk?
speaker3: ask her.
speaker1: can the kid walk?
speaker4: i can. i can walk.
speaker1: we're going to find a path down into the interior of the island. load up whatever you think you need, and i mean need. if you can't carry it indefinitely, don't bring it. we'll hit the worker village in a couple hours and be out of here before dawn.

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: piss.

speaker1: help us. 
speaker2: i do not feel lucky.
speaker3: keep moving.

speaker1: the jungle. it's always ready to return. 
speaker2: where's the power and radio setup?
speaker3: operations building. far end of the street.
speaker4: lava?
speaker1: no.
speaker4: what are they?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker3: the radio rig is inside. it runs directly from the geothermal generator, so power shouldn't be a problem.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: what's he got in there?
speaker3: piss.
speaker5: what?
speaker3: don't ask me. the guy's completely out to lunch.
speaker4: what in name would he want with- roland rejoins them.
speaker2: tyrannosaur urine. i don't want anything to do with it, and neither does any other animal on this island. this building is now demarcated as the rex's territory. as long as you stay in that building, you'll all be safe until the helicopter comes.
speaker6: where are you going?
speaker2: after the rex. i saw a fresh kill back in the valley with tyrannosaur tracks all around it. if i'm not back in time, don't wait for me.
speaker5: you've got to be kidding.
speaker2: runs against my nature to hole up in a cave and wait.
speaker3: do you think the rex might have the infant with it?
speaker2: possible.
speaker3: you know how to work a radio, don't you?
speaker5: you're going too?
speaker3: i lost everything i came after on this trip, but one t-rex in one theme park could single-handedly bail ingen out of chapter 11.
speaker1: you gentlemen feel you have to do this now?
speaker2: now's the perfect time. the animal just fed, so it won't stalk us for food. predators don't hurt when they're not hungry.
speaker4: no.

speaker1: we took to the rock. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: wind shift.
speaker2: it's... behind... us.
speaker2: if i don't move, i can't shoot it.
speaker1: let it go, peter. the animal won.

speaker1: there they are! 
speaker2: no lz in the street, too much debris!
speaker1: check the other buildings!

speaker1: there it is! 
speaker2: ian. it's guano.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: these formations. they're dried --
speaker1: birdshit?
speaker3: who cares? let's go!
speaker1: kelly?! kelly?!

speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: where's kelly?
speaker1: she's with sarah!

speaker1: we can't stay in here! 
speaker2: we're sure as not going back out there"
speaker1: this is single-wall construction!
speaker2: it'll hold!
speaker1: for sixty seconds, maybe! look at this! you could-
speaker2: head for the roof!
speaker1: i have to find kelly!
speaker2: i think she's with sarah!

speaker1: it's too wide! 
speaker2: help me push this!

speaker1: it's afraid to come onto the roof! 
speaker2: something's wrong.
speaker1: look! sarah!

speaker1: dad! 
speaker2: come on!

speaker1: where's kelly? 
speaker2: where's ian?

speaker1: hang on! if i tip it hard, i can cut 'em with the rotors! 
speaker2: no! don't! they're not attacking!
speaker3: thank you. kelly, thank thank for you...

speaker1: hello, lex. tim. 
speaker2: i'm glad you came, dr. malcolm
speaker1: i'm sorry about your grandfather.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: we were going to call you, in a few days. tim and i have been thinking, and we've decided we want people to know about the island. about what we all saw.
speaker3: we think it's something our grandfather would want us to do.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because it's true.
speaker1: i know, lex. but even if we're the only ones who ever know, it'll still be true. you see, i've decided that if the world found out about what your grandfather created, it wouldn't be around for very long.
speaker2: but -- it was real. you can't let people go on saying it's not.
speaker1: that's the thing about reality. he looks down at kelly. malcolm even when people stop believing in it, it doesn't go away.

speaker1: do you feel the cold wind blowing on your face? that's real. 
speaker1: do you see the four of us, standing here together, alive? that's real.
speaker1: and maybe that's still that matters.

