speaker1: -- and we moved out. 
speaker2: fleeing into the surrounding woods and fields.
speaker1: your papa and me hid in a field with hay or corn, some kinda foliage, i don't know.
speaker1: then along comes this farmer who almost runs us over in a tractor, so your father hauls out his piece, this .44 cannon he used to carry, and hijacks the tractor.

speaker1: anyway, carlo gambino came out of it capo de tutti capi, and that was the last time the whole commission tried to meet -- until now. 
speaker2: i don't know. i don't like it. what do we need a meeting for? let everybody worry about their own business.
speaker1: the '57 meeting was about how we were going to divide up the whole country. this meeting is about how we're gonna survive. you got 'made' guys informing for the feds; bosses going to jail; everybody's dealing drugs; people are getting whacked without permission. and on top of everything, now we got the chinese triads and these crazy russians to deal with. everything's changing. we need a leader. someone with fresh ideas. someone like you. it's gonna be a new century, paul.
speaker2: what are we gonna get, a web site?
speaker1: you remember what else happened in 1957, paul?
speaker2: yeah, i remember.
speaker1: when your father died, i promised him i'd always look out for you.

speaker1: i kept telling him that i needed room to grow and find myself as a person. not just as a woman but as an independent entity. 
speaker2: her therapist, seems to be listening intently.
speaker1: i told him i needed to get in touch with my uniqueness, but he couldn't handle that. he said i was driving him away. do you think i was driving him away, dr. sobol?

speaker1: things end, caroline. that's just a part of life. it's how we deal with things ending that's important. 
speaker2: i just can't believe it's over between me and steve. maybe there's still hope.
speaker1: well, he did take out a restraining order against you. i have to be honest, that's usually not a good sign.
speaker2: but what should i do?
speaker1: well, caroline, i think the first thing you have to do... ... is stop whining about this pathetic loser! you're a tragedy queen! 'steve doesn't respect me. steve doesn't love me anymore.' who gives a get a life! you are, without a doubt, the most boring human being i have ever met! please, say something interesting before i lapse into a coma! caroline looks curiously at ben, unperturbed.
speaker2: dr. sobol?

speaker1: yes. yes. i was just reflecting on your whole -- situation. it's very interesting what you were just saying. i want you to think about it, and i'm going to think about it, so we'll both think about it and we'll continue next week when i get back from my vacation. 
speaker1: or not.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: i know. i couldn't get rid of my last patient. i think she was a tick in a past life.
speaker1: yeah, what's caroline's problem? your boyfriend's gone, he hates your guts, get over it.
speaker2: michael! what did i tell you? you can't listen to my sessions!
speaker1: i can't help it. i hear you through the vent in my room.
speaker2: funny how that happens when you lie on the floor and put your ear up against it.

speaker1: okay, okay. how's that guy who dreams about trout? 
speaker2: fine. he moved up to striped bass. put on your cummerbund. boy, have you grown. did your mother move next door to a nuclear power plant?
speaker1: why do we have to wear rented clothes to grandpa's party? this blows.
speaker2: we have to dress up because grandpa can't have a good time unless everyone else is extremely uncomfortable. forget the tux. regular clothes.
speaker1: are you ambivalent about grandpa isaac?
speaker2: ambivalent? where do you get that stuff?
speaker1: mom.
speaker2: she's not supposed to do that, you know.

speaker1: your mother and i, when we got divorced, we agreed we wouldn't put you in the middle, or use you as a go-between to talk about each other. so just do me a favor and tell your mother to shut her big mouth. did she say anything about me getting married again? i think she could be feeling a little anger about it. 
speaker2: oh, yeah. she really cares. she says you're intimidated by women your own age, and that's why you go for these young babes.
speaker1: okay. listen, for two seconds, pretend i'm not your father.
speaker2: you gonna vent?
speaker1: yeah. i hate her! i really hate her! okay. dad again. let's go.

speaker1: the word is primo sindone must have ordered it, but, uh -- he hesitates. 
speaker2: what?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: a lot of people think you set him up.
speaker2: why the would i want to kill dominic? he was like a father to me.
speaker1: so you could be the big boss. everybody figures you're lookin' to wipe out the competition before the big meeting.
speaker2: oh, is that what they figure?
speaker1: it's alright with me if you did --
speaker2: i didn't kill him! i told you that! don't you hear?

speaker1: please, mr. vitti, i told 'em i don't know anything but they don't believe me 'cause that one time i said little joe hit dukey and it turned out he didn't but i didn't know because -- 
speaker2: shut the up!
speaker3: nicky, you know me, right?
speaker1: yeah. you're mr. vitti.
speaker3: and you know what i'm gonna do to you if you lie to me, right?
speaker1: uh, you're gonna crack me on the head with that pipe?
speaker2: it's a rhetorical question, you
speaker3: i'm only gonna ask you this one time. who killed dominic manetta?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker3: don't lie to me!
speaker1: honest to i don't know!
speaker3: you little rat bastard...

speaker1: forget about it. he doesn't know anything. 
speaker1: get him outta here.

speaker1: look at this. everybody's nuts. ooh, i hate walking into that house late. 
speaker2: i think you're reacting like this because you're mad we have to go to this party.
speaker1: no. don't. i'm not going to be analyzed by someone who up until a few years ago believed in santa. sorry, but we only have room for one dr. sobol in this family.
speaker2: but there's two dr. sobols.
speaker1: can we talk about something else?
speaker2: are you going to read grandpa's new book? mom says you won't because you're...

speaker1: does your mother talk about anything else or is it just me twenty-four hours a day? wham! ben rear-ends the car in front of them. 
speaker1: that's your mother's fault! your mother did that!

speaker1: what's the matter with you? are you some kind of moron? 
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's totally my fault.
speaker1: did you see anything?
speaker2: i was talking to my son. i took my eyes off the road --
speaker1: forget that did you see anything?

speaker1: that's all right, sir. it's our fault for being in front of you like that. 
speaker2: well, i should have been watching. let me give you my insurance information --
speaker1: it's okay. forget about it.
speaker2: really? it looks like your whole rear end might be screwed up.
speaker1: no, it was like that before.
speaker2: maybe we should call the police?
speaker1: why? the police.
speaker2: right! 'em.
speaker2: at least take my card. you might look at the damage in the morning and change your mind.
speaker1: you're a doctor?
speaker2: ph.d. psychologist.
speaker1: a shrink. you talk to a lotta nuts, huh?

speaker1: pings and knocks. cheap gas. 
speaker2: jelly! let's go!
speaker1: take it easy, doc.

speaker1: what do you mean you're not coming? it's my wedding. 
speaker2: we understand it's a special day for you, benny, but your father and i can't just pick up and leave town every time you decide to get married.

speaker1: every time? this is a once-in-a- -- twice-in-a-lifetime thing. 
speaker1: dad, you're not coming to my wedding?
speaker2: we want to be there, but i have three book signings next weekend. i can't off these big book stores. if i cancel, they'll stick me down on the bottom shelf.
speaker1: yeah, that's the word on the street. the self-help book business is full of vindictive pricks.
speaker3: ben! the language.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but i've been alone for eight years, now i've finally met someone i want to spend the rest of my life with and i would really like you to meet her before we get married. you're going to be her family. i think it's better she knows that up front.
speaker2: you're really hostile tonight.
speaker1: i'm joking.
speaker3: i think i'll go talk to the mayor.
speaker1: the mayor's here?
speaker3: i can only hope.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: nothing. everything's fine.
speaker1: how's your practice?
speaker2: it's great. just great. i've got some very interesting patients -- extremely interesting.
speaker3: dad has a patient who dreams he trout.
speaker2: thanks, mike.
speaker1: excuse us, michael.
speaker1: why are you wasting your time out there in the boondocks? new york city is the mecca of madness.
speaker2: i'm just not sure i could spend my life dealing with people whose biggest crisis is how to fire the maid.
speaker1: it beats a guy with an full of flounder.
speaker2: trout! and don't minimize my practice.
speaker1: why are you getting so defensive? this is about your own feelings of inadequacy.

speaker1: you always turn it back on me. 
speaker2: why do you think i do that?
speaker1: why do you think i think you do that? go ahead, now you ask me why i think you think i think you do that.
speaker2: enough. i want you to think about what i said. and when you're ready to talk to me like a normal person, i'll be at the piano with regis philbin. rege!
speaker3: i'm not singing, isaac!
speaker2: now, ladies and gentlemen, at the piano, regis philbin!
speaker1: thomas wolfe was right. you can't go home again -- because your parents still live there.

speaker1: forget dominic! they were after paul. it's a miracle you survived. i thank 
speaker2: yeah, thank all i know is if i didn't have some veal stuck in my teeth, i'd be laying there with dominic.
speaker3: this is all about the big meeting. primo sindone wants to run the whole show.
speaker1: yeah, but primo's a boss. he knows the rules. he couldn't go after dominic and paul unless the other families gave their permission.
speaker2: if they did, we're heading for one big war. talk to zello and baldassare. find out what you can. we got two weeks. if the other new york bosses are against us, i want to know it before i walk into that meeting.
speaker1: you all right, paul? you don't look good.
speaker2: i'm a little choked up here. i gotta get some air.

speaker1: you feel all right? 
speaker2: i feel like this whole thing is like a huge headache.
speaker1: you havin' one of those mindgrains?
speaker2: get the car.

speaker1: good news, mr. evans. your heart is just fine. 
speaker2: how could it be fine? i've had like eight heart attacks in the last three weeks.
speaker1: well, based on everything, i'd say you probably had an anxiety attack.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: an anxiety attack. a panic attack. i can give you some xanax if it happens again soon --

speaker1: look at me. do i look like a guy who panics? 
speaker2: there's nothing -- i mean -- it's a common thing --
speaker1: where did you go to medical school? i had a heart attack, you quack bastard.
speaker1: listen to me, jerk-off. i had a mild heart attack and now it's over. you understand?
speaker1: if anyone asks you, you never saw me, and i was never here. is that clear?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: good. take the chart.

speaker1: jelly, i need you to do something for me as my friend. 
speaker2: anything.
speaker1: you have to find me a doctor.
speaker2: we just came from the doctor.
speaker1: not that kind of doctor. i need a head doctor.
speaker2: you're gonna change your face like sonny black? don't get his nose though, he looks like a pig.
speaker1: not a plastic surgeon, ya spoostud.
speaker2: it saves time.
speaker1: i need you to find me a psychiatrist.
speaker2: wow. this is like the psychic network or something. i just ran into a psychiatrist. actually he ran into me.
speaker1: is he any good?
speaker2: yeah, he seemed like a smart guy. he had a business card and everything --
speaker1: he had a card? that's a real achievement.

speaker1: what do you need a shrink for anyway? 
speaker2: it's not for me. it's for a friend. this friend is having some problems, so i'm going to ask the shrink some questions and get some answers for my friend.
speaker1: got it.
speaker2: and nobody can know. if anyone hears i'm talking to a shrink, it could be interpreted the wrong way. you know what i mean?
speaker1: of course. absolutely. can i ask you one thing?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this friend. is it me?

speaker1: carl, i'm detecting a pattern here. you seem to settle too easily for things. 
speaker2: you're right. i do.
speaker1: no, well, there you go. you just did it again. i suggested something and you immediately agreed.

speaker1: you're right. i did. 
speaker2: why do you think you do that?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: well, sometimes people do it because they fear rejection or disapproval, but you can't let that worry you, carl. and you can't agree with things just for the sake of agreeing. stand your ground. don't let people roll over you.
speaker3: dr. sobol?
speaker2: excuse me! i'm in a session here.
speaker3: yeah, i know, i'm sorry.
speaker2: you're... you're one of the guys i rear-ended the other night.
speaker3: bingo. get outta here.
speaker3: upsa-daisy. you got a coat, nutbar?
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: he's leaving.

speaker1: the he is. he's not going anywhere until we're done with his session. 
speaker2: i'll give you a hundred bucks to get out of here. carl looks at the money, then he gives ben a plaintive look.
speaker1: don't take it, carl.
speaker2: a hundred and fifty.
speaker1: he's not leaving.
speaker3: three hundred.
speaker1: listen, if you're upset about your car, i can understand that. but you don't just barge in here --
speaker4: you know who i am?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: no you don't.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: you've seen my picture in the papers?
speaker1: yes. and no. sometimes. never.
speaker2: jelly, wait outside.
speaker2: sit down.
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: tony bennett, huh?
speaker1: yeah. he's my favorite.
speaker1: mr. vitti, i tried to give the guy my insurance information, but he wouldn't take it. seriously, i tried several times because it was all my please don't kill me.
speaker2: i was just gonna ask if you liked baseball.

speaker1: yes. big yankee fan. 
speaker1: mr. vitti. not that it's your fault, but your friend, he interrupted a patient's session and that's -- not good. i think this is a matter for our insurance companies, don't you think?
speaker2: i don't care about the car.
speaker1: then what -- ?
speaker2: a friend of mine is having a problem and he might have to see a shrink, so i'm going to ask you a couple questions. do we sit?
speaker1: whatever makes you comfortable.
speaker2: okay, the first thing i gotta know about is privacy. you must hear a lot of weird in here. how do i know you won't go testifying -- not testifying -- but, you know, talking about it to somebody else.
speaker1: i won't discuss a patient with anyone for any reason, unless i know the patient may be a danger to himself. like if i'm concerned a patient might kill himself...
speaker2: not likely --
speaker1: -- or kill someone else.

speaker1: so who starts? 
speaker2: why don't you tell me why you think you need therapy?
speaker1: i don't need therapy. i'm helping out my friend. you didn't hear me say that?
speaker2: right. i'm sorry.
speaker1: you guys are supposed to be so great when it comes to listening. you can't remember what i said two seconds ago.
speaker2: i'm very sorry.
speaker1: i have to tell you, doc, i'm not thrilled with the level of service up to this point.
speaker2: why don't you tell me about your friend?
speaker1: he's a powerful guy. never had a problem dealing with things, you know? now all of a sudden, he's falling apart. he cries for no reason. he's having trouble sleeping. and then he started having these attacks. you know, can't breathe, dizzy, chest pains -- like you think you're gonna die.
speaker2: panic attacks.

speaker1: what's with all you doctors and the panic? did i say panic? 
speaker2: not panic. dizzy -- breathing -- chest pain attacks.
speaker1: right. so the question is, what can he do to make it stop?
speaker2: i'm going to go out on a limb here. i think your friend is you.
speaker1: you -- you -- you -- you have a gift, my friend. go on.
speaker2: medication could help, but if you really want to get to the bottom of this, you're going to want to get some kind of therapy.
speaker1: with you?
speaker2: with me? oh, i don't know. i'd have to look at my schedule. i'm very heavily booked right now and i'm going on a short vacation tomorrow.
speaker1: where you going?
speaker2: i don't really share that information with...
speaker1: where?
speaker2: miami beach.

speaker1: you know, this could be good. just getting that off my chest, i feel better already. it's like a load is off my shoulders. thank you. 
speaker2: well, i really didn't do anything --
speaker1: you did something. the load? off. where is it? don't know. you're good, doctor. i'll be in touch. but listen to me. if i talk to you and it turns me into a fag, i'll kill you. you understand?
speaker2: could we define 'fag,' because some feelings may come up -- vitti silences him with a wave of his hand.
speaker1: i go fag, you die. got it?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: i didn't. hey, dad? one thing though. 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i go fag, you die.
speaker2: michael! that's it! i am sealing that vent.
speaker1: you are so cool, dad. was that really paul vitti?
speaker2: i didn't ask to see his mafia decoder ring, but yeah, it was him. and you cannot tell anyone he was here. you understand?
speaker1: should i take it off the internet?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm kidding!

speaker1: so judging from the mob scene around the pool here today, i think you'd have to say that there's nothing 'off' about the 'off-season' in miami beach this summer. now, on a personal note, this is my last report for w.v.b.f. i'm getting married to a wonderful man and moving to new york, so if you're up that way, watch for me on the w.p.i.x. news team. thanks for everything, miami. for the last time, this is laura macnamara, w.v.b.f. news. 
speaker1: catch!
speaker2: we're clear.
speaker1: i'll do the re-asks, then you guys can just shoot the inserts and pack it up. ben! laura runs to ben, standing on the sidelines, and embraces him. michael is there too.
speaker1: this is him, everyone! this is the guy!
speaker3: hi, everybody.

speaker1: oh, i missed you. 
speaker2: i missed you too. michael, say hello.
speaker3: hi, laura.
speaker1: this is michael? i don't think so. if i remember correctly, michael was a little boy, and this, this is a great big kid. hey, you. tell us what you did with michael sobol.
speaker1: okay. come on. give me a break.
speaker3: no, it was nice, but i'm fourteen so it wasn't -- you know -- age appropriate.
speaker1: sorry. just smack me if i do that again. how are you, michael?
speaker3: great.
speaker2: mike, you want to go look at the camera?
speaker3: why would i want to look at the camera?

speaker1: 'cause i bet there's all kinds of cool video stuff over there. why don't you check it out? 
speaker2: oh, yeah. is it okay?
speaker3: go ahead. if you break something, don't worry. i'm out of here.
speaker3: you think he likes me?
speaker1: michael? he's crazy about you. i am too.
speaker3: you are? and you still really want to get married?
speaker1: of course.
speaker3: but what if you get tired of me? i know so many couples that were really happy, then they got married and just completely lost interest in each other.
speaker1: that's not going to be us.
speaker3: i just don't want to lose the passion.
speaker1: yes, i'm brimming with passion.

speaker1: i want us to be like animals. you know just screaming and sweating and tearing at each other all the time -- 
speaker2: the sweating shouldn't be a problem. the tearing sounds painful.
speaker3: uhh, laura? you want me to take your mic, or at least turn it off? laura looks over at the crew. it's obvious that michael and the crew have heard this whole exchange.
speaker1: oh my

speaker1: what are you talking for? i'm trying to do this here. 
speaker2: you seem -- distracted.
speaker1: i got things on my mind. stop talking.
speaker2: okay, i'm sorry. just relax, baby.
speaker2: were you thinking about your wife?

speaker1: no, i wasn't thinking about my wife. now i'm thinking about my wife. it, sheila, why can't you keep your mouth shut! 
speaker2: i'm sorry, paul.

speaker1: dr. sobol. dr. sobol. 
speaker2: mom?
speaker1: mr. vitti wants to see you. i have your robe.

speaker1: i got news for you. i'm still up. whatever you did the other day, it didn't take. you did nothing for me. 
speaker2: i did nothing? what did you expect? i saw you for five minutes. i don't work miracles, mr. vitti. and i'll tell you something else. i don't appreciate it when someone breaks into my hotel room and kidnaps me. i don't go for that. i have a family and a life and a serious practice, and i don't have time for your that got away from me near the end.
speaker1: i couldn't get it up tonight.
speaker2: you mean sexually?
speaker1: no, i mean for the big game against michigan state. of course sexually!
speaker2: you flew fifteen hundred miles and dragged me out of bed in the middle of the night because you couldn't get an erection?
speaker1: doesn't that prove i'm motivated?

speaker1: no, that's a cheat. you start with the pills, next thing you know you got implants with pumps. i think a hard-on should be gotten legitimately or not at all. 
speaker2: did you see that embroidered on a pillow somewhere?
speaker1: are you gonna help me or not?
speaker2: i don't believe this. all right.
speaker1: the dead thing? never. well, one time. tonight. and another time.
speaker2: so twice?
speaker1: do the math. two times. there was another time. but it was after a big meal, so, you know, that don't count.
speaker2: listen, being unable to perform three or four times --
speaker1: five.
speaker2: five times -- it isn't the end of the world.
speaker1: maybe not to you -- look at you -- but if i can't get it up, that makes me less of a man and i can't have that.

speaker1: in my business i deal with animals. they may seem to an educated guy like you, but make no mistake about it, doctor, animals are very cunning. and they sense weakness. right now i'm an injured animal. it's only a matter of time before one of the lions out there catches the scent. then i'm dead. that's the way it is. if you don't understand that, then you don't understand the life i live and you don't understand me. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i have until the end of the week to get strong or they're gonna eat me up. if they don't kill me in the meantime.
speaker2: what happens next week?
speaker1: i can't tell you and you don't want to know.
speaker2: it's impossible. i can't do anything that fast. and even if i could, what's my goal here? to make you a happy, well-adjusted gangster?
speaker1: look, the other day i saw a commercial on television, some kid playing with a couple of puppies. i cried for 45 minutes. slap a pair of on me, i'm a woman!
speaker2: i'm sorry. i can't help you.
speaker1: you're turning me down?

speaker1: mr. vitti, when i got into family therapy, this was not the family i had in mind. i'm turning you down. 
speaker2: you with your schmucky little office in your schmucky little house out there in schmuckville -- you're turning me down? what, so you can spend more time listening to housewives and moan about how nobody them right?
speaker1: i'd like to go now.
speaker2: you see this? this is what i'm talking about! i'm a dead man!
speaker2: you call yourself a doctor? you should be ashamed. a real doctor couldn't turn his back on a person who's suffering!
speaker1: all right. what happened with your wife tonight?
speaker2: i wasn't with my wife. i was with my girlfriend.
speaker1: you have a girlfriend? we could do two months on that alone.
speaker2: what, you're gonna start moralizing with me now?

speaker1: okay. do you have marriage problems? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then why do you have a girlfriend?
speaker2: i do things with her i can't do with my wife.
speaker1: why can't you do those things with your wife?
speaker2: hey. that's the mouth she kisses my children good night with.
speaker1: okay, okay. have you been under a lot of stress lately?
speaker2: you mean like seeing your best friend murdered? yeah, i got stress.
speaker1: well, based on what you told me before about your attacks, i'd say that's probably it then.
speaker2: it's just stress?
speaker1: i doubt if there's anything physically wrong with you.
speaker2: you. you. you're very good.
speaker1: there's a lot more to it --

speaker1: no, you're right. you're right on the money. i can feel the juices rushing back to my manhood as we speak. 
speaker2: well, i didn't need to know that.
speaker1: this settles it. you're my shrink.
speaker2: i can't treat you, mr. vitti. i don't think you're really ready to open up and deal with --
speaker1: listen to you. the honesty. nobody -- and i mean nobody -- talks to me like this. i'm ready.
speaker2: you don't hear the word 'no' that often, do you?
speaker1: i hear it all the time. only it's more like, 'no, no, please, no!'
speaker2: all right. i'm here for two more days. when we get back to new york, i'll treat you exclusively for two weeks. i just need to figure out what to tell my other patients.
speaker1: you want me to clear your schedule for you?
speaker2: no thanks, i'll handle it. now can i go?

speaker1: what is wrong with you? i woke up, you were gone, no note or anything. i've been going out of my mind, ben. i walked all over the hotel looking for you. i almost called the police! 
speaker2: okay, listen. i'm going to tell you the truth. i had a serious patient emergency.
speaker1: you have patients in florida?
speaker2: just one. he followed me here from new york. i had to go.
speaker1: who is this patient?

speaker1: paul vitti! paul vitti. 
speaker2: oh, ben.
speaker1: i know. but don't worry. it's not like he's a real patient. he's got this idea in his head that i'm helping him. it's crazy.
speaker2: you're not going to treat him.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: tell me you're not.
speaker1: i'm not!
speaker2: that would be too scary. you don't want a person like that in your life, believe me. i've covered the mob down here. i've seen what they can do.
speaker1: listen, it's been taken care of. i told him i couldn't see him again. he understood and it's over.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker2: i was so worried.

speaker1: it doesn't figure. we take out manetta, what does vitti do? nothing. why doesn't he move? 
speaker2: him.
speaker1: i'm telling you, primo, he's planning something big. the is really gonna come down.
speaker2: then let it come down. vitti's a tough guy but a lot of tough guys got fed to the crabs off red hook over the years. you been down there a long time. are you measuring my inseam or contemplating a lifestyle change?
speaker1: primo? what about vitti?
speaker2: vitti. vitti. the whole time we were growing up, he was the smart guy; i was the dope. my father was a nickel-and-dime shitheel; his father had it all. vito genovese blew it at apalachin because he forgot to kill gambino before the meeting.

speaker1: i won't make the same mistake. i want paul vitti dead -- now. you two astronauts think you can handle that? 
speaker2: you got it, primo.

speaker1: come on. get into it. 
speaker2: i don't understand. they jump out of the water, they splash, they eat fish. it's not a real stretch for a whale. if they did a number from west side story, then i'd be into it.
speaker1: just stop. we're having fun, right?
speaker3: well, to be real honest. i'm not having as much fun as it looks like i am. i'm pretending, you know, because we have to bond and everything.

speaker1: you've got to admire the openness. 
speaker2: here comes the whale again!

speaker1: me! 
speaker2: ben looks and sees jelly beckoning him.
speaker3: i'm hungry. yeah, i'm going to get a hot dog. who wants a hot dog?
speaker4: i'll go with you.
speaker3: no, i'll go. you're pretending to have a good time. i don't want to spoil that. be right back.

speaker1: what is this? are you guys following me? 
speaker2: fifteen-hundred dollar suit. you think the whales in that water?
speaker3: no, i think they use the men's room next door at the burger king. mr. vitti wants to see you.
speaker1: is this a joke?
speaker3: you're an employee of mr. vitti's. that means you're on call twenty- four hours a day just like the rest of us.
speaker1: no, he and i discussed this. i told him i'd see him when i got got back to new york.
speaker3: don't be a skavootz. it is what it is. if he needs you sooner, you go.
speaker1: no, i'm not going, and if you bother me again i won't treat him at all. understand? that's it.

speaker1:  
speaker1: thanks, mister.

speaker1: they threw me in the shark tank, paul. the shark tank! 
speaker2: they were trying to make a point.
speaker1: what, that you're a scary guy?
speaker2: you're in a mood, you know that?
speaker1: yeah, i get that way when a shark tries to chew on my ass.
speaker2: okay. okay. calm down.
speaker1: i don't want to calm down. my girl friend saw me all wet? i told her i fell into a tank with the manatees. i lied to her last night, now this. i don't like it.
speaker2: manatees. that's a funny word.

speaker1: i'm glad you're entertained. 
speaker2: oh, i can tell you really care.
speaker1: okay. what's going on?
speaker2: i had an episode. not an actual panic attack, but i started panicking a little thinking i might have one. does that seem weird to you?
speaker1: i'm redefining 'weird' on an hourly basis. what were you thinking about when you started feeling anxious?
speaker2: i don't know. the usual
speaker1: which family? this one?
speaker2: no, regular family.
speaker1: i want you to draw a picture of a house. in the sand.
speaker2: what kind of house? a warehouse? a whorehouse? my house? what house?
speaker1: a house.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i'll tell you after you do it.

speaker1: i don't know what they're doing. he's talking to some guy. looks like vitti is drawing something in the sand... what's he drawing? what am i, superman? i'm a hundred yards away -- i can't see no way, he's got that fat jelly with him and his partner, jimmy boots. we could take him out with a rifle and a scope, but i don't have any of that with me. my scope's in the shop... nah, it's a warranty item... hey, don't sweat it. you told me to take care of him, i'll take care of him... okay, i'll call you back. 
speaker2: there. you happy?
speaker3: where are the people?
speaker2: what people? you told me to draw a house.
speaker3: i know. but usually when people draw a house they draw people. where are the people who live in your house?

speaker1: well, you see, they'd come out and say hello, but the whole family's in the witness protection program. it's very sad. what the you want from me? 
speaker2: okay, forget the house. i'm going to say some words, and you say the first thing that comes into your mind.
speaker1: good, more games. shoot.
speaker2: home --
speaker1: -- plate.
speaker2: mother --
speaker1: --
speaker2: father --
speaker1: -- forgive me for i have sinned.
speaker2: wife?
speaker1: love.
speaker2: son?
speaker2: son?

speaker1: see this? again with the crying. let's get out of here. we're being watched. don't look. there's feds on the roof of the hotel. 
speaker2: how do you know that?
speaker1: i'm a criminal. it's my job.

speaker1: who's the new face? 
speaker2: i don't know. get somebody down there to see what he drew in the sand.
speaker3: whoever this guy is, he must be important to the family.
speaker2: maybe he's vitti's new consigliere. put his picture on the wire and see what you come up with.

speaker1: yeah, we're fine. we're on our way to the pool. kids, get your stuff. we'll get out of your way. 
speaker2: that's okay. marie, this is a friend of mine, ben sobol. he's -- from the boat. a fishing boat captain. cuban refugee.
speaker1: nice to meet you, senor sobol.
speaker3: gracias.
speaker2: and this is theresa and anna --
speaker4: anne.
speaker2: -- anna, and the big guy, anthony.
speaker5: how you doin'?
speaker3: nice to meet you.
speaker2: theresa, you are not wearing that suit to the pool.
speaker6: what do you want me to wear, a one-piece?
speaker2: i want you to wear one of those arab bathrobes with a veil over your face, is what i want.

speaker1: mom! 
speaker2: don't worry about it, paul. we'll be back in time for dinner.
speaker3: okay, babe. hey, anthony. guess what i got?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: marlins and the braves -- right behind home plate, tonight.
speaker4: you and me?
speaker3: of course, you and me. have fun at the pool. stay out of the deep end. and don't swim for a couple hours after you eat.
speaker4: okay, papa.
speaker3: send jimmy down with them.
speaker5: already done.
speaker6: nice family. cuban fishing boat captain?
speaker3: i can't tell marie you're a shrink. she'd worry, you know.

speaker1: about this? i think she'd be more worried about your career choice. 
speaker2: just keep going with the therapy.
speaker1: you know, normally a patient wouldn't smoke or drink during a session.
speaker2: that's an interesting fact i'll have to remember if i'm ever on 'jeopardy.'
speaker1: so tell me about your father.
speaker2: my father. he was a big man in the neighborhood -- very well respected. everybody loved him, rest his soul.
speaker1: he passed away?
speaker2: no, i just like saying 'god rest his soul.' yeah, he passed away.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: heart attack. sudden thing.
speaker1: were you and your father close?
speaker2: close? yeah, you know, pretty close. i guess we weren't getting along that great right then.

speaker1: why was that? 
speaker2: i was hangin' out in the neighborhood. i had a borghata -- like a kid gang -- hooligan nothin' big. but my father didn't like it.
speaker1: you fought about it?
speaker2: he slapped the out of me.
speaker1: and then?
speaker2: and then that night he died.
speaker1: how did that feel?
speaker2: it felt great! how did it feel? i don't know.
speaker1: well, think about it. were you angry, were you afraid? sad?
speaker2: yeah, i guess.
speaker1: any feelings of guilt?
speaker2: about what? i didn't kill him.
speaker1: i'm just speculating, but maybe in some way you wanted him to die.
speaker2: why would i want my father to die?

speaker1: well, you said you were fighting. you were rebelling against his authority. there may have been some unresolved oedipal conflict. 
speaker2: english.
speaker1: oedipus was a greek king who killed his father and married his mother.
speaker2: greeks.
speaker1: it's an instinctual developmental drive. the young boy wants to replace his father so he can totally possess his mother.
speaker2: are you saying i wanted to my mother?
speaker1: it's a primal fantasy --
speaker2: have you seen my mother? that is the sickest thing i've ever heard.
speaker1: it's freud.
speaker2: well, then freud's a sick and you are too for bringing it up.

speaker1: all set for the big day, ben? 
speaker2: can't wait, scott. can i call you 'scott?'
speaker1: my friends call me 'captain.'
speaker2: captain.
speaker3: well, if tomorrow goes as well as the rehearsal, i'd say it's going to be a beautiful wedding.
speaker2: yes, thanks for going to all this trouble, and i have to thank you and the captain for something else.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: for this.
speaker4: would you like a drink, because i'm definitely having eight or nine.
speaker3: shall we go to the table?
speaker1: ben, there's a lot i'd like to say to you, but i'm going to skip the big father-in-law speech because i know you've been married before.

speaker1: technically, it wasn't considered a marriage. it was like the korean war -- more of a police action. 
speaker2: i served in korea, son. i don't think you'd be laughing if you'd seen some of the things i saw.
speaker1: you're right. sorry.
speaker3: senor sobol!
speaker1: mr. vitti! how are you? mrs. vitti! honey, it's the vittis!
speaker3: look at everybody. everybody's smiling, everybody's happy. nice. this is marie, my girls, my boy, then all these guys.
speaker1: mr. and mrs. vitti, this is laura, my fiancee.
speaker3: nice to meet you.
speaker4: thank you very much.
speaker1: and this is my son michael.

speaker1: whoa. he's a bruiser. you're sure this is your kid? you're a pound and a half soaking wet. i've had lobsters bigger than you. you ever want a job, you come talk to me, right? 
speaker2: seriously?
speaker3: michael!
speaker4: you're paul vitti. the mobster.
speaker3: mr. macnamara -- uh --
speaker1: excuse me. is that polite? is it? i'm trying to be nice here. do i walk up to you and go, 'you're whoever you are. the prick'?
speaker5: paul!
speaker3: mr. vitti, this is laura's father.
speaker1: yeah? okay, well, sorry. but you should know, there is no mob, and, p.s., i personally have never been convicted of a crime. we're nine for nine, right?
speaker6: that's right.

speaker1: i heard about the wedding. here you go. a little something for the bride and groom. bless. 
speaker2: mr. vitti, we can't accept this.
speaker1: yeah, you can. now, if you don't mind, i just need to borrow this guy for a couple of minutes, then that's it. i'm out of here.
speaker2: okay. then you leave us alone, right?
speaker1: of course. i wouldn't do anything to screw up your wedding. i gotta talk to you. come on. have a great night, everybody. nice to meet you.
speaker3: i've just got to talk to him for a sec. you okay?
speaker2: i've never been less okay.
speaker3: great.
speaker4: i bet you eat a lot of fish since your fiance's in the business.

speaker1: watch that door. and don't listen to what we say. 
speaker2: my ears are sealed.
speaker1: okay, listen. i had a really weird dream last night.
speaker3: i feel like i'm having one right now. how could you interrupt our party?
speaker1: you know, you're very rigid about certain things.
speaker3: just tell me the dream.
speaker1: okay. i'm asleep. i hear a baby crying. i go to the refrigerator, i get a bottle of milk, i take it to the baby, but when i go to give it to him, i see that the milk is black.
speaker2: that's weird.
speaker1: okay, get out of here!
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: what's it mean? and i don't want to hear any more filth about my mother.

speaker1: i don't know what it means. what does it mean to you? 
speaker2: this is what i'm paying you for? i say something, you say it right back to me? i could get jelly to do this for nothing.
speaker1: then get jelly.
speaker1: mr. macnamara.

speaker1: i'm gonna get something to eat. you want like a sandwich or somethin'? 
speaker2: yeah. what kinda sandwich isn't too fattening?
speaker1: a half a sandwich.
speaker2: sounds good.
speaker1: i'll be back in about twenty minutes.
speaker1: analyze this - rev. 7/13/98 68/69.

speaker1: nod your head and smile. now, you listen to me, goombah. i know what your game is, and you'd better call it quits, because if you and your paisans do anything to hurt my little girl, i'll kill you. understand? nod and smile. 
speaker2: what was that about?
speaker3: nothing. your father thinks i'm in the mafia.
speaker2: oh.
speaker3: let's get married.

speaker1: tell mikey to take marie and the kids right to the airport. you get the car, bring it around to the back and wait for me. 
speaker2: that's it. i've had it with you!
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: what happened? i just saw a man fall seven stories into a platter of poached salmon! that's what happened.
speaker1: did he break anything?
speaker2: yes. everything! they're still picking the capers out of his forehead.
speaker1: hey, people get depressed, they jump. it's a human tragedy, but it's not my fault.
speaker2: you're telling me it was suicide?
speaker1: i think he left a note. jelly, did they find that note?
speaker3: no, but they will in a minute.
speaker2: oh, yeah, here it is.

speaker1: 'life is i can't take it no more. tino.' 
speaker2: enough talking. we got to get out of here. the place is crawling with feds. i'm going back to new york and i suggest you do the same. they're probably onto you too now.
speaker1: onto me? what are you talking about? being an accessory to murder was not part of our understanding.
speaker2: hey, why you busting my balls? i didn't kill him. i can't speak for everyone in the room, but -- the came after me! it was self-defense. trust me, doc. in this one, we're the good guys.
speaker1: laura!
speaker3: how could you do that?
speaker2: great. another country heard from. get her outta here.
speaker1: honey, why don't you wait downstairs?

speaker1: why, they're going to throw me off the balcony, too? i am thirty -- over thirty years old and all my life i have dreamed of walking down the aisle in a beautiful white dress and marrying the man i love. 
speaker2: that's a beautiful dress.
speaker1: thank you, but it's not about the dress! we were supposed to get married!
speaker2: you're upset.
speaker1: of course i'm upset! i'm going downstairs to pack, then i'm going to new york and i'm getting married with you or without you. okay?
speaker3: i'll be right there. everything's going to be all right. i promise. he kisses her and closes the door behind her.
speaker3: are you happy now? you ruined my life!
speaker2: what, you think i wanted this? i'm the victim here! i swear, i'm going to kill that
speaker3: is that all you know? do you hear yourself? i knew this would happen.

speaker1: this whole thing has been one big disaster from the minute you walked into my office. we're finished! you hear me? 
speaker2: just 'cause of this?
speaker1: of course because of this! you don't have even the tiniest shred of human decency. all you know is threats and violence and that's all you'll ever know and i can't be around that!
speaker2: what do you want me to do?

speaker1: how come i can't get on this show? 
speaker2: primo. you got a phone call.
speaker1: vitti. hello? intercut vitti and sindone.
speaker3: primo, it's paul vitti.

speaker1: yeah, how's it goin'? 
speaker2: not good. whoever killed dominic is shooting at me now and i'm having a lot of feelings about it and i'd like to get some kinda --
speaker3: closure.
speaker2: -- closure on this.
speaker1: what kind of feelings?
speaker2: i feel very angry, you know. very, uh, enraged. mad. real mad.
speaker1: so why you telling me?
speaker2: why am i telling you? like you had nothing to do with it?
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: okay, whatever, i just wanted to tell you how i feel because i know that anger is -- he looks at ben.
speaker3: a blocked wish --
speaker2: -- a blocked wish, and i'm getting my wish unblocked and i'm looking forward to getting some closure --

speaker1: -- and if you make one more move on me i swear to i'll cut your off and shove 'em up your ass! 
speaker2: vaffancul'!
speaker2: get a dictionary and find out what this 'closure' is. if that's what he's hitting us with, i want to know what the it is.

speaker1: good? 
speaker2: yeah, right up until the shoving the balls. you can't keep doing this! you want to get physical? take a walk. get a punching bag. hit a pillow.
speaker1: there's your pillow.
speaker2: feel better now?
speaker1: yeah, i do.

speaker1: call the vatican. ask them if anything's missing. 
speaker2: so cool!
speaker3: michael, get your bags out of the car, please.
speaker2: it's almost as tall as the house!
speaker1: he felt bad. it's a wedding gift.
speaker4: well, we're not married, so i guess we'll have to send it back.
speaker1: hey, don't blame me. you didn't want to finish the ceremony.
speaker4: what did you expect? you think that's what i want to remember on our anniversary? 'gee, honey, let's go look at the wedding video. there's my parents, there's your parents, and there's the guy who plunged to his death.'
speaker1: i just want to marry you.
speaker4: i'm starting to think that's not going to happen.
speaker1: come on. next saturday. it's all set. i even asked for a room with a low ceiling, just to discourage the jumpers.

speaker1: and who's going to be there? 
speaker2: us three, a clergyman, and any family members who've completed their crisis counseling.
speaker1: and no guests without necks.
speaker2: we'll do a neck check at the door.

speaker1: doctor sobol, mrs. sobol -- i'm agent steadman, agent ricci, agent provano, federal bureau of investigation, o.c.d. 
speaker2: obsessive-compulsive disorder?
speaker3: organized crime division. we need to talk.
speaker4: the fbi! this is better than the fountain!
speaker2: michael, go to your room.

speaker1: but -- 
speaker2: go!
speaker1: fine. i can hear better in there anyway.
speaker2: so. fbi.
speaker3: can you explain these photographs, doctor sobol?
speaker2: i'm a psychotherapist. paul vitti is my patient.
speaker4: was your patient.
speaker2: right. was. that's what i meant.
speaker4: but not like a real patient.
speaker2: right.
speaker5: so why did he send you that fountain?
speaker2: that was a gift to celebrate the completion of his therapy. we got our television from an agoraphobic, so it's not that unusual -- you know, maybe you should discuss this with my attorney.
speaker4: yeah, maybe you should.

speaker1: doctor sobol, paul vitti is an extremely dangerous man. we're talking conspiracy, fraud, extortion, racketeering, grand theft, murder... 
speaker2: well, yeah, but don't forget, the man is a sociopath. you've got to expect that kind of behavior --

speaker1: excuse me, fellas. my folks are here and i'd like to -- well, die would be my first choice. can i go out? 
speaker2: it's your house.
speaker3: too bad you didn't remember that when you were breaking in.
speaker1: honey, maybe the federal agents would like something to drink?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: i tried, guys.

speaker1: hi! what a surprise. 
speaker2: that certainly makes a statement. it's a little big for the yard, don't you think?
speaker1: what can i tell you, mom? it looked much smaller in the store.
speaker3: think it'll affect your water pressure?
speaker1: i think it'll affect the tides.
speaker2: your father and i are just very concerned about what happened in florida.
speaker3: how was your flight home? anyone hang themselves in first class.
speaker2: we got in last night, we couldn't sleep a wink. is laura inside?
speaker1: yeah, but she and michael are spending some time alone, you know, getting to know each other. that's important. i don't want to disturb that dynamic.
speaker2: so you're not going to invite us in?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: well, i'm going to wait in the car. there's too much spray. 
speaker2: all right. what's with you and paul vitti?
speaker3: well, dad, i'm not at liberty to discuss that.
speaker2: he's your patient? are you joking? have you thought about what this could do to your reputation?
speaker3: you, know, i always wanted to be great, but then i realized that i might have to settle for just being good enough. now i've got this guy who's hurting and i'm thinking that if i can help this guy, maybe i can be a little bit great.
speaker2: ben, you're the one who's going to be hurting. i want you to stop seeing him.
speaker3: didn't you read your own book? instead of trying to run my life, why don't you just close your eyes, take a deep breath, tell me what you feel, tell me what you want.
speaker2: this is
speaker3: you wrote it.

speaker1: okay. i love you -- and i'm afraid for you -- i want you to be safe -- and i want you to have a good life. 
speaker2: is that really it?
speaker1: that's it.
speaker2: you know why i became a shrink? because i grew up with a great one walking around the house.
speaker1: i thought you became a shrink because you were sleeping with your psychology professor at columbia.
speaker2: yes, and because of you.

speaker1: okay, so you were saying? 
speaker2: let me cut to the chase. sometime in the next week or so, the heads of every major crime family in the united states are going to meet together somewhere in the new york area.
speaker3: we think the stage is set for a major bloodbath. has he mentioned anything about it to you?

speaker1: a bloodbath? 
speaker2: no. if he said anything about a bloodbath, i probably would've remembered it. bloodbath is one of those words that, you know, stands out in a conversation.
speaker3: you could really help us out by supplying information about that meeting.
speaker2: and if i don't?
speaker3: if you don't, i will personally make your life a living hell. i want you to think about that and call me at this number when you change your mind.
speaker2: you mean if i change my mind.
speaker3: i mean when.
speaker1: okay. guess what, fellas?
speaker2: laura --
speaker1: sit down! there's going to be a bloodbath. oh, yeah. only it's going to be between you and me. you think you can break into our home and intimidate us? that ain't the way it works here, boys. whatever he and paul vitti talked about is privileged. he doesn't have to tell you a thing.

speaker1: tarasoff vs. the university of california. look it up. now, if he's done something wrong, take him downtown and book him. otherwise, i'll ask you very kindly to get the out of my house. 
speaker2: we'll be in touch.
speaker3: laura, that was really --
speaker1: oh, shut up!
speaker4: you are in trouble.

speaker1: paul, i don't mean this in a disrespectful way. you know i was a good friend to your father and i will always be a good friend to you. but the word is out that you've been talking to a shrink. is that right? 
speaker2: what's the point here?

speaker1: this concerns the whole family. right now, we're the only ones who know about it, but if it gets out on the street -- what then? who knows what you've been saying in there? 
speaker2: it's none of anybody's business what i say in there.
speaker1: paul, i beg to differ. if you're doing this to establish some kind of insanity defense later, that's one thing. but everybody's gonna think you're falling apart, and that ain't good. they'll take it as a sign of weakness, and that makes us all vulnerable. sindone would take over everything.
speaker2: so what do you want me to do?
speaker1: it's time to end it.
speaker2: what do you mean, end it?
speaker1: get rid of this shrink. he knows too much already.
speaker2: you want me to whack my doctor?
speaker1: if you don't do it, somebody else will. it's the only way.
speaker2: no. nobody touches him. you hear me? anybody lays a finger on him, i'll kill 'em. is that clear?

speaker1: i'm going to buy some fruit. 
speaker2: no, go ahead.
speaker2: papa! papa!

speaker1: you look lousy. you all right. 
speaker2: listen, paul, please don't send me any more gifts.
speaker1: you didn't like the fountain?

speaker1: that's not the point. it's a boundary issue. 
speaker2: boundary issue? i say if more people gave from the heart, we'd all be better off. let's see your watch. piece of junk. you're getting a rolex.
speaker1: don't buy me a rolex.
speaker2: who said anything about buying it?
speaker1: listen, i really need to talk to you.
speaker2: tommy angels. we grew up together. worked for a crew out of jersey city.
speaker1: how did he die?
speaker2: he was on his way to talk to a federal prosecutor. got hit by a truck -- twice.
speaker1: do i need to know that? i'm having nightmares as it is.
speaker1: last night i dreamed we were walking down the street, i stopped to buy some fruit, and they shot me -- like brando in the godfather.

speaker1: good scene. was i there? 
speaker2: you dropped your gun, then you ran over to me and started yelling, 'papa, papa!'
speaker1: i was fredo. i don't think so.
speaker1: you're losing it, doc. you may need therapy yourself.
speaker1: him i don't know. let's get private.

speaker1: don't you see? you called me 'papa.' it's all about your father. 
speaker2: what're you, nuts? it was your dream.

speaker1: yes, but that's what your black milk dream was about, too. 
speaker2: uh-uh. i don't buy it. in my dream, i'm bringing the baby the black milk.
speaker1: freud believed you're everyone in your dreams.
speaker2: yeah, well, that guy i don't need to hear about. i can't even call my mother on the phone after that thing you told me.
speaker1: let's say you are the baby. what kind of milk did you get from your father?
speaker2: could we stop talking about my father?
speaker1: that's the whole point! we have to start talking about your father. you know what it's like dealing with you? this is you. you gotta help me, doc. i'm a mess. i'm in pain. okay, paul, i can help you. you. nobody helps paul vitti.
speaker2: very good. now i'll do you. 'boo-fuckin'-hoo.' i never said this would be easy. let's see how you like it. let's talk about your father.
speaker1: let's not.

speaker1: is he still alive? 
speaker2: yes, he's still alive.
speaker1: what kind of work does he do?
speaker2: that's not important.
speaker1: you paused.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you paused. that means you had a feeling. what does he do?
speaker2: he's a psychiatrist.
speaker1: ooh, you're up. next patient, please.
speaker2: we're running out of time, paul. let's not waste it talking about my problems.
speaker1: your father's a problem?
speaker2: no!
speaker1: that's what you just said! you seem upset.
speaker2: i'm not upset!
speaker1: hey, i'm good at this.

speaker1: we have three days left. if you want to spend it around, i can't help you. call me when you're ready to get serious. 
speaker2: say hello to your father for me!

speaker1: we could just pop him right now. 
speaker2: in front of a church? what are you, a animal? it's a holy place.
speaker1: is the sidewalk holy, too? i mean, where does the holiness end?
speaker2: i don't know. second avenue?

speaker1: if you don't do it, somebody else will. it's the only way. 
speaker2: no. nobody touches him. you hear me? anybody lays a finger on him, i'll kill 'em. is that clear? then the technician plays an altered version.
speaker2: you want me to whack my doctor?
speaker1: if you don't do it, somebody else will. it's the only way.
speaker2: i'll kill 'em.

speaker1: i know this guy. he would never talk to the feds. 
speaker2: the fbi was at his house today.
speaker3: it's the truth. i saw 'em.
speaker2: you'll see. next thing is he's gonna call you and ask for a meeting.
speaker1: come on. you don't know this guy.
speaker4: it's dr. sobol. he says he needs to see you right away.

speaker1: sit up front with jimmy. 
speaker2: you want me to sit in front?

speaker1: so this time you'll sit up front. 
speaker2: federal case? i'm not making a federal case? let's go.

speaker1: wow, this is really good. delicious. i love italian food. i've never been to italy but i'd love to go. i've been to france. and jamaica. that's nice, but i'm sure it's very different from italy. a whole different, uh -- so what's everybody doing this summer? 
speaker2: this is ben. he's a friend of mine. say hello to carlo mangano.
speaker3: how you doin'?
speaker2: carlo was on my father's crew. he's always been like a -- i don't know -- like a cousin to me.
speaker3: i am your cousin.

speaker1: i know, that's what i'm saying. it's like a family thing. the closeness. 
speaker2: anything you need, anything i can do for you, paul, you know. i'm here for you.
speaker1: i know. so did you take care of that thing i asked you about?
speaker2: is it all right to talk business in front of your friend?
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker2: yeah, i took care of it.
speaker1: how about that other thing?
speaker2: i'm waiting for that first thing to come through. i can't move until it does.
speaker1: did the guy give you a problem?
speaker2: a little. he's a lunatic.

speaker1: what did he say? 
speaker2: the usual.

speaker1: did you tell him you weren't going for it? 
speaker2: what was i gonna do?

speaker1: you always gotta nip that in the bud. 
speaker2: yeah. but if the first thing is okay, that should fix everything.
speaker1: including the second thing.
speaker2: yeah, but --
speaker1: exactly. don't repeat any of that to anyone.
speaker3: what? the first thing or the second thing?
speaker1: that's stevie beef over there. i gotta go say hello to him for a second. come on.
speaker3: stevie beef. interesting name. when he was younger they probably called him stevie veal. you guys come here often?
speaker4: paretti's has a very special meaning to paul.

speaker1: yeah, this is where his father got whacked. 
speaker2: hey!
speaker1: what's the big secret?
speaker3: wait a second. paul's father was murdered?
speaker1: right at that table. with his whole family there.
speaker2: hey, just shut up.
speaker3: paul, too? he was there?
speaker2: he don't like to talk about it.
speaker1: where you goin'?
speaker3: bathroom.
speaker2: i'll go with you.

speaker1: ahhhh! 
speaker2: at the urinal, reacts to ben's cry.
speaker2: you need more roughage. a bran muffin in the morning would help with that.

speaker1: i have to talk to you -- in private. 
speaker2: leave us alone.
speaker1: why didn't you tell me about your father?
speaker2: what about him?
speaker1: you said he died of a heart attack.
speaker2: so what's the problem?
speaker1: what's the problem? your father was murdered!

speaker1: heart attack, murdered, what's the difference? he's dead. 
speaker2: there's a big difference. why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: because it's private. you think i tell you every little thing?
speaker2: that is not a little thing!
speaker1: okay, you want to know? analyze this. i was twelve years old, the whole family was having dinner together right over there, two guys walked in and shot him dead right in front of us. okay?
speaker2: and you didn't think this was important enough to tell me?
speaker1: what am i supposed to do? spend the rest of my life crying about the past? forget about it.
speaker2: you know what? i think you want to talk about it.
speaker1: no, i don't want to talk about it.
speaker2: i think you do.
speaker1: no, i don't.
speaker2: then why did you choose this restaurant?
speaker1: 'cause i like it, okay?

speaker1: of all the places we could've gone, why this one? 
speaker2: white clam sauce. the best.
speaker1: no, we're here because you wanted me to know about your father.
speaker2: i'll reach out to you --
speaker1: i think we have some major trust issues here.

speaker1: i'd like to see a movie but there's nothing out there. it's all this shoot-'em-up action i get enough of that at work. 
speaker2: that was our friend. he marked your guy at paretti's.
speaker1: yeah? then let's make it the last supper. jack?
speaker3: you got it, primo. let's go.

speaker1: jimmy, you can have shotgun this time. i don't mind. 
speaker2: nah, sit up front. there's more room for your legs.
speaker1: my legs are short, it's fine in the back.
speaker2: get in the front.
speaker1: you know what? it's late. i think i'm just going to call it a night. why don't i just grab a cab and head on home.

speaker1: get in the car. 
speaker2: no really, it's all right.
speaker1: get in the car.
speaker3: do what he says.
speaker2: you know, we call this a transference neurosis. it's when the patient starts acting out his problems with his therapist instead of out in the world. it's usually considered a good sign. not for me, in this case, but -- jimmy forces him into the back of the car.

speaker1: leave us alone. 
speaker2: sorry, doc. it's not personal, you know.
speaker3: don't kid yourself, jelly. it doesn't get more personal than this.

speaker1: you know why i have to do this, don't you? 
speaker2: because you're a paranoid? no, actually you're a reverse paranoid. you think you're out to get everybody.
speaker1: don't me! you betrayed me! you stabbed me in the back.
speaker2: i betrayed you? what are you talking about? who's got the gun?
speaker1: you think i'm an idiot? don't insult my intelligence. you cooperated! you talked to the feds!
speaker2: they played me a tape! you said you were going to kill me.
speaker1: never. i never said that.
speaker2: it doesn't matter. i didn't betray you, paul. yes, they made me wear a wire, but i took it off, because i think i know how to help you now.
speaker1: i don't want to know what you think.
speaker2: yes, you do.
speaker1: no, i don't!

speaker1: i think you do. 
speaker2: it's over! don't you get it?
speaker1: okay. can i ask you one last question?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what did you order?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what did you order?
speaker2: when?
speaker1: that night. what were you eating the night your father got killed?
speaker2: how the do i know?
speaker1: you don't remember?
speaker2: it was 35 years ago.
speaker1: what did your father have?
speaker2: i told you! i don't remember.
speaker1: try.

speaker1: what's the matter with you? 
speaker2: it's a simple question. what was your father eating!
speaker1: penne.
speaker2: good. and you.
speaker1: ravioli.
speaker2: the food was on the table?
speaker1: they were just serving it.
speaker2: did you see the guys coming?
speaker1: one of them. dressed like a busboy.
speaker2: did your father see him?
speaker1: no, but i knew he looked wrong.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: his pants. they looked too good for a busboy.
speaker2: he walked over to the table?
speaker1: i watched him the whole way.
speaker2: did you say anything?

speaker1: my father was so mad at me. 
speaker2: and you were mad at him.
speaker1: i couldn't say anything.
speaker2: and then.
speaker1: i never saw the second guy. my mother started screaming.
speaker2: and you blame yourself?
speaker1: i coulda saved him.
speaker2: but you were mad at him.
speaker1: i killed my father.
speaker2: you didn't kill him, paul. you were angry but you didn't kill him. that's the life he chose.
speaker1: i never got to say good-bye.
speaker2: say it now, paul. talk to him.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: you have to. tell him, paul.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm so sorry.

speaker1: what's taking so long? i'm ruining my shoes here. $350 bruno maglis. 
speaker2: what's wrong with you? don't you have any respect? this is a very difficult thing for paul.
speaker1: shoulda let me do it. i'd be home watchin' e.s.p.n.2 by now. world's strongest man. you should see these guys.
speaker3: you couldn't save him, paul. he was trying to save you. that's what you fought about. he didn't want this for you, and you don't want it for anthony. you don't want him to grow up the way you did -- without a father.
speaker2: the guy's fallin' apart.
speaker1: why doesn't he just pop him? it's embarrassing.
speaker1: analyze this - rev. 6/10/98 106a.
speaker3: your father's not dead, paul. he's alive -- in you. and he's trying to tell you something.

speaker1: paul! they're shooting! 
speaker2: he fires back at handsome jack.

speaker1: all the windows are blown out by the gunfire. ben screams. 
speaker2: paul! for sake, shoot somebody!
speaker3: he reloads and fires again.

speaker1: something snaps inside ben. 
speaker2: it!

speaker1: oh my did i do that? 
speaker2: no, doc. that one's mine. you got the chevy camaro and the side-by-side refrigerator-freezer.

speaker1: pretty ironic, isn't it? you can give me back the gun now, doctor. 
speaker1: it's okay. i wasn't really gonna whack you. all right, maybe i was gonna whack you, but i was real conflicted about it. progress, right?
speaker2: i don't think i can see you anymore.
speaker1: yeah, i figured.
speaker2: this was big tonight. you might feel a little raw for a while.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: so good luck. it's been --

speaker1: what kinds of things does he want you to say, elaine? 
speaker2: well, he wants me to call him 'big boy.' and he's my bucking bronco, and i'm supposed to ride him hard and put him back in the barn wet.
speaker2: are you all right, dr. sobol?
speaker1: let me suggest something, elaine. if the man wants you to say things ... it, you should get down on all fours and bark like a dog if that's going to get the job done. break out the wine, baby. smoke a joint. do what you have to do, because life is too short. it's just too short.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: is ben going to step on the glass? 
speaker2: no. he doesn't want to hurt his foot, so they're going to drop a person on it.

speaker1: ben, do you take this woman, laura, to be your lawfully wedded wife, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, 'til death do you part, so help you god? 
speaker2: no!
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: no, not you. i was talking to him.
speaker1: who him?
speaker2: it's not important. yes.
speaker1: yes what?
speaker2: yes to the thing before. to her. that's a yes. pick it up from there.
speaker3: doc, we're going to need to hurry it up here. hi, kid.
speaker4: i do not believe this!
speaker3: haul ass, buddy. we got a problem.
speaker4: who the do you think you are?

speaker1: ooh, she's feisty. watch out, doc. tick tock, let's go. hurry up and pronounce them, huh? 
speaker2: by the power vested me by the state of new york, i now pronounce you man and wife.
speaker1: okay. kiss, kiss -- ben and laura kiss.
speaker1: i'm sorry about this, mrs. sobol, but duty calls, you know?
speaker3: oh. you're the first person to call me mrs. sobol.
speaker1: nice, huh?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: laura, i'm sorry. it's the job.
speaker3: go. just go. have him back here by the salad course or you're in serious trouble. capiche?
speaker1: you're a pistol. i like her.

speaker1: he's bad, doc. worse than i ever seen him. i think his inner child is all up. 
speaker2: have you ever seen an episode like this?
speaker1: yes. once on 'bonanza,' hoss cartwright got bit by a raccoon.
speaker2: never mind.

speaker1: this is serious, doc. if he doesn't make this meeting, they'll kill him for sure. 
speaker2: can't someone else in the family go for him? tommy the tongue? louie the lip? what about you? you go?
speaker1: that would work except for one little detail. i'm a moron. i'm known for it. you have to go.
speaker2: me? you must be a moron.

speaker1: hey! watch that. 
speaker2: you just said it yourself.
speaker1: it's different when i say it. when you say it, it sounds very negative.
speaker2: i'm sorry, jelly, but i'm not going. i'm not on the payroll anymore, so forget about it. my wife is waiting -- he turns to go back into the hotel.
speaker1: doc.
speaker2: you can't shoot me, jelly.
speaker1: correction. mr. vitti couldn't shoot you. but here's something about me you should know. i never got married, doctor sobol. i don't have a hobby. i never got a dog or a cat. i don't even have a goldfish. i live for one reason only, and that's to serve mr. paul vitti. he's what i'm thinking about when i wake up, and he's what i'm thinking about when i close my eyes to sleep. if he told me to jump off a tall building, not only would i do it, i would hope to survive so i could do it again and again until he told me to stop. this is all i know. this is all i got. so please don't think i won't kill you, because i'd hate for your last thought to be a wrong one.

speaker1: which one is it? 
speaker2: the black one.

speaker1: just remember. that's a $1200 valentino suit. you spill anything on it, i'll mess you up good. 
speaker2: shut up. you're making him nervous. if he gets nervous and up, they'll kill him for sure. let's go over it again.
speaker3: this is insane.
speaker2: mr. vitti's been detained, apologies all around, blah, blah, blah. then you say you're the new consigliere, and you're prepared to speak for mr. vitti.
speaker3: then what?
speaker2: then you just keep your mouth shut, and hope nobody asks you nothin'.
speaker1: boy, this is some plan.
speaker2: shut up. if you have to talk, just be vague. can you do that?
speaker3: i'm a psychologist. believe me, i can be vague.

speaker1: shouldn't you be outside playing or something? 
speaker2: no, it's all right.
speaker1: how long you gonna sit there?
speaker2: how long you gonna lay there?
speaker1: i'm done.

speaker1: i can't do this. i'm telling you, i cannot do this. 
speaker2: don't whine! whining's a dead giveaway. come on! you're the consigliere, for chrissake.

speaker1: these are the bosses? that one looks like my uncle max. 
speaker2: what's goin' on? where's vitti?
speaker3: on his way. don't worry.
speaker2: what's he doin' here?
speaker3: he's -- it's okay. forget about it.
speaker2: forget about it? what the is that?
speaker4: who's the guy with jelly?
speaker5: i don't know.
speaker1: i can't do this.

speaker1: all right, gentlemen. i think we better start. we have a big agenda, so for now let's stick to the big issues. and it would help if you identify yourselves when you speak, since we don't all know each other, and we didn't think anybody would be into wearing any name tags. laughter around the table. 
speaker2: i'm primo sindone. they call me sonny long. it's good to see so many of the old faces here, and to welcome the new ones from all over the country. i see frank zello, and joe baldassare, but i'm a little disappointed to see that the head of our other new york family isn't here today. all i see is his man jelly and some sawed-off little nobody knows.
speaker3: yeah, well, the thing is mr. vitti has been detained and he sends his apologies for -- being detained -- and he apologizes for his -- detainment.
speaker2: detained? what kind of is that? what's more important than this? as the host of this meeting, i take his not being here as a sign of disrespect to me and to all these other men, too, who came a long way to be here.
speaker3: mr. vitti meant no disrespect. the thing is, he's not feeling well. he's sick and he -- didn't feel well --

speaker1: jelly! we don't ever discuss mr. vitti's health outside the family. you know better. 
speaker2: all right, who is this guy and what the is he doing here?
speaker1: in answer to your first question, my name is ben sobol -- -- leone. sobboleone. they call me -- 'the doctor.' as for your second question. i'm here representing paul vitti. as his conser -- conghili --
speaker3: consigliere --
speaker1: don't you ever correct me again! as his consigliere, i'm intimately involved in all aspects of the family business and i'm prepared to speak for mr. vitti on all matters.
speaker2: okay, doctor, then let's get down to business. everybody knows there's been this thing between me and paul vitti for a long time.
speaker1: which thing are you talking about? the first thing or the second thing?
speaker2: what second thing? i only know one thing.

speaker1: well, i don't see how we can discuss the first thing without bringing up the second thing. didn't you talk to the guy? 
speaker2: what guy?
speaker1: the guy with the thing.
speaker2: what thing? what the are you talking about?
speaker1: how should i know? you brought it up. this is the whole problem. you can't have an intelligent conversation with the man.
speaker2: how about if i just break your neck? what do you think of that?
speaker1: it's not important what i think.
speaker2: what do i think? i think it's a good idea! why would i say it if i didn't think it was good?
speaker1: i don't know. why would you?
speaker2: i wouldn't! that's what i'm saying!
speaker1: have you always had a problem dealing with your anger?

speaker1: what are you talking about? 
speaker2: what do you think i'm talking about?
speaker3: i don't know what the you're talking about!
speaker2: see, you're angry again. do you feel you have to get angry to be heard?
speaker1: what's he talking about?
speaker4: i don't know. but you do have a tendency to get angry a lot.
speaker5: i agree, primo.
speaker1: i'm trying to talk about vitti!
speaker2: interesting. do you feel you're not worthy enough to be talked about?
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: what do you think it means?
speaker1: you!
speaker4: primo, calm down.

speaker1: calm down? how can i calm down when this won't stop with the questions? 
speaker2: could you pass the fruit, please?
speaker1: that's it! you're a dead man!
speaker3: primo!

speaker1: wait outside with the car running. 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: saving your ass. sit down. i'll take it from here.
speaker1: i'm paul vitti. i'm sorry i was late. those of you who know me will know i meant no disrespect. if it's all right with you, there's something i'd like to say, then i'll leave you to your business. ben looks at vitti and sees a kind of serenity and clarity he's never seen before.

speaker1: about two and a half weeks ago, somebody killed my friend, dominic manetta. 
speaker2: don't look at me. everybody knows you whacked him so you could take over everything.
speaker1: what i really came here to say is that i've come to a very important decision in my life. i want out.
speaker1: i'm going away for a while, but i will respect the oath i took the day i was made, and whatever i know about anyone else's business, i take with me to the grave. you have my word.
speaker1: as for my own organization, i know carlo mangano would like to be the new boss.
speaker3: thank you, paul.
speaker1: that's why he betrayed dominic and me to our enemies and sent his own man to kill me in miami.
speaker1: but i leave it to my people to deal with that and choose their own boss. and even though it's my right, i won't take revenge, mostly because i'm in a good place mentally and feeling good about me.

speaker1: i don't know, paul. i can see where some people might have a problem with this. 
speaker2: i realize that, so as an extra token of good faith between us, i've taken the liberty of writing down everything i know and putting it in a safe deposit box in case anything happens to me or my family.
speaker1: i don't know what anybody else thinks, but i say good luck and bless, paul.
speaker3: good luck, paul. salut.
speaker4: well done.

speaker1: let's move. 
speaker2: vitti!

speaker1: i don't want to do this, primo. 
speaker2: you don't want to do this? that's rich. what did you think, you could just quit and walk away? you think this is a civil service job? what are you, crazy?
speaker1: not anymore. hey, carlo, tell me. you gonna stab me in the back like the piece of i always knew you were?
speaker3: i'm not gonna stab you in the back, paul. i want to see your face when i do it.
speaker1: i don't think so. mo-mo!
speaker1: bigs!
speaker1: eddie!
speaker1: it's over, primo. now get the outta here.

speaker1: don't move! don't you move! 
speaker2: hey! take a pill, robocop.
speaker3: i can't believe it. you took a bullet for me. what doctor ever did that much for a patient? i'll never forget that.
speaker4: paul -- i tripped.
speaker3: yeah. you tripped over your unconscious.

speaker1: i don't think my mother really listens when i talk. she never listened. 
speaker2: and how does that make you feel?
speaker1: it makes me feel angry.
speaker2: i'll bet you feel hurt, too, don't you?
speaker1: yes, i do.
speaker3: paul, what would you say about what donny's feeling?
speaker2: donny, when you're thirsty, you don't go to the wall -- you go to the well. you know what i'm saying? your mother may never be able to listen to you, but you have friends here who will. okay?
speaker3: and be patient, donny. most people's problems take months, sometimes years to resolve.
speaker1: i'm doing twenty-five to life.
speaker3: that should be plenty of time.

speaker1: you know they found primo sindone dead in a field near laguardia. 
speaker2: i heard. i had nothing to do with it. there were guys lined up from canarsie to atlantic city who wanted to whack that bastard.
speaker1: okay, just checking.
speaker2: you know, doc, i don't think i ever thanked you properly for curing me.
speaker1: we don't say 'cured.' we say you had a 'corrective emotional experience.'
speaker2: you, you, you're very good.
speaker1: no. you. you.

speaker1: happy? 
speaker2: i just can't get used to it.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: it's been three weeks since the last time you were kidnapped. i don't know if i can adjust. 
speaker2: what do you say, tony? one more?
speaker3: whatever you want, dr. sobol. my friend told me to stay as long as you wanted me. what do you want to hear, mrs. sobol?
speaker1: your choice, tony.
speaker3: i was hoping you'd say that. 'world on a string,' fellas.

