speaker1: she's a beauty. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: who's the beauty?
speaker1: the car.
speaker2: i thought maybe you saw some chick walking by. i lost my concentration. why do they call cars 'she'? they never say 'he'... always 'she.'
speaker2: very nice... very nice.

speaker1: who's sick? 
speaker2: who do ya think i'm screaming at? how many of you are there up there? there's only you, and you're a sick human being.
speaker1: where's my white on white shirt?
speaker2: it's like yelling through a wall to you. i'm carrying on about what a disgusting human being you are, and all you want to know is where your white on white shirt is.
speaker1: yes, the one with the permanent stays.

speaker1: now don't try to hustle me here ... you know what i mean. i hate being hustled. give me an honest price, not one of your 'special' deals... give me an honest price. 
speaker2: now, how much are you willing to pay?
speaker1: there ya go... there ya go... you're doing it... you're doing one of those hustle numbers.

speaker1: i'm just trying to get an idea how much you're willing to pay. 
speaker2: four dollars... i want to pay four dollars a month.
speaker1: that's not an honest answer.
speaker2: what do ya want to hear? that i'd love to pay three hundred and fifty a month... is that what you want to hear? tell me how much you want me to pay and i'll tell you how much i'll pay, but don't do a hustle on me... i don't like that. how much do i want to pay? i'd like to pay nothing!

speaker1: you're being unreasonable. you don't even want to listen. 
speaker2: i don't know what i did... i got no idea. if it's my fault, i'm sorry... i'm sorry. i can do no better than that. a full unconditional apology.

speaker1: if you even have the smallest problem, call me personally and i'll just shoot you straight into the service department. 
speaker2: and i get a loaner if the car's got to stay?
speaker1: as we discussed, you get a car if the car has to be kept overnight.
speaker2: i get a loaner?

speaker1: she's gonna drive me to my grave... i'm headed to my grave... the woman's driving me insane... it's not supposed to happen this way. 
speaker1: it's not even eleven o'clock and my neck is stiffening up.
speaker1: my neck's tight... it's tight.

speaker1: are you a lunatic? can't you see i'm trying to back out of this lot? there's a red light, you shoulda stopped. 
speaker2: me? what are you, crazy? you just want to back into the middle of the street like that. a man's just driving along and you back into the middle of the street. what kind of driving is that?

speaker1: there's a red light, i'm making a space for myself... that's what i'm doing, in order to get into the street... that's something ya do! 
speaker2: you came out of nowhere... you bolted out of no place... bolted out of nowhere.
speaker1: bolted! at six miles an hour i'm bolting into the street! you schmuck! you schmuck!
speaker2: back away from me, do ya hear me?
speaker1: back away? you want me to back away? i'll back away.
speaker2: you're a lunatic!
speaker1: you're a madman! smashes into me, attacks me... the man is crazy!
speaker3: come on now, calm down, calm down.
speaker4: take it easy... take it easy...

speaker1: get this guy! will ya get this guy? backs in front of me, and then kicks my headlight in... and i'm crazy. you lunatic! 
speaker2: you're going to prison. death! death! they're going to give you death!
speaker2: car only has one sixteenth of a mile, and i've been hit.
speaker2: i'm gonna get even with you, you son of a i'm gonna get even with you. this is no ordinary traffic accident.
speaker1: you want to drive a cadillac, learn how to drive. you want to get even with somebody? you picked the wrong person to get even with. nobody backs into traffic, smashes my car and says they want to get even.

speaker1: ben cartwright had a colored guy stay overnight at the ponderosa? 
speaker2: did he know this guy personally?
speaker3: no... he was just passing through, asked if he could stay over, and ben cartwright said 'sure thing.' it doesn't make any sense... he invites a strange colored guy in... invited him in to stay. is that crazy or what? if a colored guy came to my door and said 'can i stay the night,' i'd tell him 'get the out of here'! it's nothing personal, mind you.
speaker2: you're not a bigot, is that what you're telling us?
speaker3: me? no, i'm not a bigot.
speaker1: if you're not, how come you're making such a big thing out of it?
speaker3: it's the fact the ben cartwright's on the ponderosa... he's in the middle of nowhere. it's not like he's living on reisterstown road with houses all around... we're talking about the west here. it's the idea that a strange guy comes to the door in the middle of the west. it doesn't make sense, that's all i'm saying.
speaker2: come on... you're a bigot, that's what you are.

speaker1: florence, eggs and the toast, the way i like it. 
speaker2: not too gooey. coffee right away.
speaker3: i just don't believe that 'bonanza' is an accurate description of the west. i say no more.
speaker1: come on, give me a couple of more inches.
speaker3: you want me to take my plate...

speaker1: come on, sam, i'm having a terrible morning. you're not going to believe this, some guy just crashed into me... right in the middle of the street... then he attacks me. 
speaker2: did ya live?
speaker3: did you get his name?
speaker1: yeah, i got his name. the police came... i can't believe it... the guy's an
speaker1: yeah, here it is... some polish name... babowski... bill babowski ... son of a
speaker4: i know the guy... they call him

speaker1: you know the son of a 
speaker2: yeah, he works with bagel.
speaker1: he sells aluminum siding? i don't believe it... of all the people that could run into me, it has to be a tin man. how come i don't know him?
speaker2: you musta seen him. he hangs out with carly benelli, cheese ... you know, that group.
speaker1: i don't know the guy.

speaker1: don't you remember, he was up at the corral one night when we were there... he's a good dancer. you must have seen him. 
speaker2: i don't know the guy.
speaker3: gil, he doesn't know the guy.
speaker1: i thought he knew him, sam... i can't believe he doesn't know him.
speaker3: he seems to be indicating that he doesn't know him.
speaker2: i don't know the guy!
speaker1: he's a good dancer.
speaker2: what do you want me to do, date him? what do i give a if he's a good dancer?
speaker1: i thought you saw him. i was amazed, he does a marengay... i tell you if i was a girl i'd be impressed.
speaker3: you're not a girl and you're impressed!
speaker2: is it fresh?
speaker4: yes, it's fresh!
speaker2: just asking, florence.

speaker1: you're always just asking. 
speaker2: i'm telling you, you just can't believe how well this guy does the marengay.
speaker3: i can't wait to see it.
speaker4: i'll tell you one thing, when i get a hold of this guy, i'll break both his legs and then he won't dance the marengay too good.

speaker1: ... superior aluminum siding company. we will have a representative... 
speaker2: so the guy goes to the doctor for a physical... they do all those tests, all that stuff, blah, blah, blah...
speaker2: ... doctor says 'when we get all the information back, we'll give you a call.' leaves the doctor. one day the telephone rings...
speaker3: the guy?
speaker2: the guy!
speaker3: not the doctor?

speaker1: that's right, the guy picks it up. he gets a phone call... it's the doctor on the line. doctor says 'i've got some bad news and some worse news.' bb join the tin men to listen to moe's joke. 
speaker1: guy says 'well, let me hear the bad news first.' 'the bad news is, you've got twenty-four hours to live.' the guy says 'what's the worse news?' doctor says 'i forgot to call you yesterday.'
speaker2: it's good... i like it.
speaker3: i never heard bad news and worse news... smart joke.
speaker2: yeah... i like it.
speaker4: it's but good.
speaker3: up it fifty cents.
speaker2: i call... i call. i'm in on this one... i call.
speaker1: we get it, you're calling.
speaker4: i'm not sure.
speaker5: stay with him.
speaker4: i don't know.

speaker1: carly, get out of the hand... i'm holding serious cards. very serious cards. 
speaker2: he's bluffing.
speaker1: if i'm lying, i'm dying.
speaker3: i'm out.
speaker2: ballsy move.
speaker4: did you get the new cadillac?
speaker2: yeah. it's already been hit.
speaker4: what?
speaker2: didn't have it five minutes, backing out of the place, and a guy comes out of nowhere and bangs into my car.
speaker5: so, what ya got?
speaker1: pair of sixes.
speaker5: jacks. win.
speaker3: pair of sixes.
speaker4: how much damage?
speaker2: i bet it's six hundred bucks.

speaker1: six hundred bucks? i'd get rid of the car. that much damage it won't be any good. you may have dented the frame. 
speaker2: i didn't dent the frame.
speaker1: when you hit the frame, the car doesn't ride right.
speaker2: he didn't hit the frame! i'll tell you this, i'm gonna get the son of a if he would have apologized or something, but this guy gets out, tries to push me around.
speaker3: you're kidding me?
speaker2: yeah... the guy's totally off the wall.
speaker2: i'm gonna get him... just for the fun of it.

speaker1: now, let me see... we gotta be at the hickey house at four. it's about three-twenty now... we've got some time on our hands. 
speaker2: no, i'm up to here with the coffee.
speaker1: they got any good pool halls around here?
speaker2: i don't know. you know what would be fun to do..? let's try the life magazine routine.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: i think this is a better position... the light is hitting it, which is accentuating the effect we're going for. it's very good... 
speaker2: this shows the flaws in the structure...

speaker1: she's at the window. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: this is going to be terrific in life magazine. terrific in life magazine! come on outside, honey.
speaker2: this should be our single biggest issue of life magazine.
speaker1: bingo!
speaker3: excuse me. what are you doing?

speaker1: oh, i hope we're not disturbing you, ma'am. we're with life magazine... we'll be out of here in just a minute. 
speaker2: move the tripod another foot... another foot.
speaker3: what do you mean, life magazine?
speaker2: two minutes, ma'am, and we'll be out of here. we just need the picture for life magazine, and we'll be out of here.
speaker3: life magazine? i don't understand.
speaker2: it's very simple. ya know, we're doing this layout about the benefits of aluminum siding -- a 'before' and 'after' kind of presentation.
speaker3: a 'before' picture?
speaker1: so they see your house, and another one done with aluminum siding... the other house looking so much more beautiful.
speaker3: in life magazine?
speaker1: it's a special issue on home improvements and ways to beautify your home.

speaker1: a wonderful issue... it's one of the finest pictorial things we've done here at life... the ways you can improve your house. we're gonna be out of here in no time, ma'am. 
speaker2: it's gonna look very good, bb.
speaker3: my house is going to be the 'before'?
speaker1: no, no... we've got a house that looked like yours and it's been done in aluminum... it's very nice.
speaker2: yeah... really shows the contrast of what a house can look like.
speaker3: what does it cost?
speaker1: what? the aluminum siding? oh... i don't know the figures offhand.
speaker2: i think it's fairly reasonable.
speaker3: could my house be the 'after' in life magazine and you get another house for the 'before.'
speaker1: you mean have your house as the 'after' and find another house that looks like your house for the 'before'?
speaker3: is it possible?

speaker1: what do ya think, moe? would that be ethical? 
speaker2: well, we didn't sign any agreement with the 'after' house. we'd have to move very quickly, ma'am... you know what i mean?
speaker1: you'd have to work out an arrangement with an aluminum siding company and they'd have to do the job very quickly for us to make our deadline... we've got a deadline, that's the problem.
speaker3: how quickly?
speaker2: bb, what do you think? can we slide the deadline, or what? six or seven days?
speaker1: pressing it. do you think we could manage it, moe?
speaker2: it's pushing it, bb. what time would your husband be home, 'cos he'd have to go over the figures with the salesman... that's if there's a salesman available this evening.
speaker3: he'll be home at seven.
speaker1: we might be able to work it.
speaker3: that would be wonderful.

speaker1: okay... we've got a total of thirty-seven hundred dollars. 
speaker2: thirty-seven hundred dollars?
speaker3: honey, we're gonna be in life magazine.

speaker1: moe, did you call the office and make sure we can hold up the issue until this job is completed? this house really could be a showcase. 
speaker2: thirty-seven hundred dollars!
speaker3: i tell you what... i've got an idea. do you mind my guys working on a saturday? 'cos if my crew can work on saturday next, that'll free my guys up on monday. yeah, that'll really help me out on another job. anyway, if we can do that, i think i'll be able to knock off three hundred and fifty dollars from the job. you see, i've got an overlapping situation on monday... i don't want to go into it. what do ya think?
speaker2: yep.

speaker1: no, i'm sorry, mr. tilley, i just can't afford it. 
speaker2: we haven't even got to discussing terms. there are so many friendly financial arrangements that would hardly be a bite into your weekly salary.

speaker1: no... not this time. 
speaker2: well, as i said, you can always reach me... you've got my card, and when the time comes, let's talk.
speaker2: hey, give my best to your little son... wonderful kid there. what's his name again, ronnie?
speaker1: randy.
speaker2: randy, right. well, good night.

speaker1: i thought i had 'em... i was this close. 
speaker2: the amount of time you spent there, i thought you were ready to send for me to close it up.
speaker1: i thought i had 'em.

speaker1: 'tall and tan and young and lovely, the girl from ipanema goes walking, and when she passes each one she passes goes... "ah!"' 
speaker2: forty-six hundred dollars. this looks like a sound deal. they own their own house... we won't have any problem getting the financing for them. real good, mouse.
speaker2: so, that's one thousand, one hundred and thirty-eight dollars.
speaker3: thanks, boss. pleasure doing business with ya.
speaker2: now, what's your guys' story?
speaker4: nothing again... came up short. let me get a little advance... three hundred, just to carry me for a bit.
speaker2: tilley, i'm already carrying you for, what is it -- twenty-three hundred? something like that?

speaker1: no problem... just in a little slump here. 
speaker2: don't try to go walking on me.
speaker1: what do you mean, walking? you think i'm gonna work somewhere else... you've been very good to me... very honorable.
speaker3: he's always said that about you, wing. always said that about you...
speaker2: i'll give you hundred and fifty.
speaker1: wing, i need a bit more than that...
speaker2: what's wrong with your wife? she doesn't work?
speaker1: yeah, but how much is she gonna make working at the social security office?
speaker1: come on, wing, can't you do better than this... a man in my position in terms of this firm... i dunno...
speaker2: all right, i'll give you two hundred.
speaker4: honey, can you get me some marlboros and a 7 and 7?

speaker1: and some scotch, straight up. 
speaker2: now listen, guys, we got a problem here.
speaker1: did she hear me say scotch straight up?
speaker2: my sources tell me this home improvement commission is for real... it's no jackpot. these guys are going to be a real pain in the ass, so any of the scams that you guys are pulling, they get wind of it, they take your license and it's goodbye to this business.
speaker3: they take away your license? they take away your livelihood? what kind of people are these?
speaker1: they have no respect for the working man.
speaker4: which scams are they talking about?
speaker2: any irregularities, you know, selling a house on the pretense that it's a model house and every job sold in the area they get a kickback... the life magazine hustle... you guys know all the numbers we can run.
speaker1: what a pain in the ass. do you think this commission's gonna stick around or is it gone with the wind?

speaker1: i wouldn't mind seeing africa some time. 
speaker2: not me. i don't want to go where they've got snakes.
speaker1: they've got snakes?
speaker2: i've heard they've got snakes that'll outrun a horse through the grass. they got a snake that bites you... you got eleven seconds to live. no thank you. i don't want to spend my good money to visit with that kind of jeopardy. i'd like to go to a place where... hold it!
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: the guy who ran into me... that's his car.

speaker1: give me eight points i take the knicks over the lakers for 20. 
speaker2: it's too big a spread.
speaker1: it's that lunatic again.
speaker1: can you believe this guy? is he sane or what?
speaker2: isn't that something?
speaker3: what's he got, a gnat up his ass? what the hell's wrong with the guy?
speaker4: don't you recognize him from the corral?

speaker1: i don't know the guy! 
speaker2: i'll never forget his marengay.
speaker1: i'll tell you something, if mr. marengay wants to play... we'll play.

speaker1: look at you, quarter to three and home already. what happened? you and the fellas run out of things to talk about? 
speaker2: please! i'm out there working myself to the bone, trying to make a living.
speaker1: what's a five letter word for a portuguese overseas province?
speaker2: try macao.
speaker1: m-a-c-a-o... that fits.

speaker1: what're you doing up so late? 
speaker2: we're off tomorrow.
speaker1: i think this place may be a little too large for us.
speaker2: what are you talking about... this match box?
speaker1: it's got a lot of overhead to it. what do you do... spend your time in the bedroom and the kitchen, that's all. so why do you need a living room and a dining room.
speaker1: why do ya need a back yard?
speaker2: you're not selling anything?
speaker1: i'm in a slump.
speaker2: it happens.
speaker1: last year i'm number three top seller... year before, right up there. i can't get my momentum going this year.
speaker2: well, you will. you always do.
speaker1: i'm not sure i like the idea of all this overhead breathing down my neck. when you have a place like this, that's a lot of overhead.

speaker1: what are you talking about? the monthly payments on your cadillac are more than this whole house. why don't you get yourself something cheaper, like a chevy? 
speaker2: it doesn't instill confidence in my clients. cadillac means that you're dealing with someone of importance. i thought i had a couple tonight... they just slipped away... slipped away. i'm gonna take a bath -- my neck's been tight since this morning.
speaker1: i'll turn out the lights.

speaker1: you know, tilley, we hardly ever do things together. 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: do things together that are enjoyable.
speaker2: what would we do together for it to be enjoyable?
speaker1: if we went on a picnic... it would be fun.

speaker1: i don't understand a picnic... we just go some place... we put a thing on the ground, and we eat. 
speaker2: yes... it's nice to do that.
speaker1: why? i don't get it. it's better sitting at home and watching tv.
speaker2: i think there's something nice about a picnic... it's fun.
speaker1: what's fun about it? ants get into the food... there's bees. i don't get it. we have to drive, it takes maybe an hour to get there, then you sit in grass and eat. why is that fun?
speaker2: i just thought it might be nice to do something together, that's all... thought it might be fun.
speaker1: it doesn't sound like fun to me... you take the stuff you've got here in the house, you take it someplace to eat it. it's just as much fun eating in front of the tv, and we do that together, don't we? no ants and no bees... much more comfortable.
speaker2: it's not the same thing.
speaker1: scrub my back, will ya, nora.

speaker1: not too hard! don't get me wrong, i'm willing to do anything with you. i'm just a little stymied by a picnic. if you want to go, send me a postcard. 
speaker1: what did i say?

speaker1: i think you make a left here. 
speaker1: yeah... there it is... that's the place... superior aluminum... that's it over there.
speaker2: okay, mr. marengay... here i come.
speaker1: hey, tilley, don't go too wild...

speaker1: i'll show the son of a 
speaker1: he'll get a lot of air... won't be too stuffy in this car when i'm finished.
speaker2: quick, tilley... let's get out of here. tilley runs back to his car and drives away.

speaker1: sure you wanna get into the tin game? 
speaker2: money's good, i understand.
speaker3: lot of crazy people you're gonna run into when you're knocking on those doors. hermits that don't see the outside world, jehovah's witnesses that try and sell you the bible at the same time you're trying to sell them tin. people that are just lonely and want to have conversations.
speaker4: every time you step in that door, you've got to be fast on your feet.
speaker2: interesting.
speaker1: what's the best way to qualify a mark?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: how do you know if you can get the upper hand? how do you know if you're dealing with a guy who's in an inferior position to you, or superior position? how do you know?
speaker2: you just have to talk and feel your way.

speaker1: quick way... get a book of matches out of your pocket to light your cigarette... you drop the matches on the floor. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: guy bends down to pick up the matches for you, you got a mark... you got this guy in your pocket. if he looks to you to pick it up, you've got a long, hard, tough sell on your hands.
speaker3: you want to get in good with these people... you want to win their confidence? good thing to try... get a five dollar bill, take it out when the guy's not looking, drop it on the ground. guy looks back, pick it up, hand it to him and say, 'mr. blah blah, you musta dropped this five dollar bill on the ground.' two things happen... he says, 'it's not mine,' you say, 'musta been, 'cos it's certainly not mine,' or the guy takes it. right away this guy is thinking you must be one of a nice guy... you're in. you start chipping away... you start getting inside those people.
speaker3: come on, moe, let's split.
speaker4: yeah, we'd better go, too. come on, stanley. me and stanley. it's like a first date.

speaker1: what? you got a special bargain when you bought this car? they come cheaper without windows? 
speaker2: this guy's looking to play for tat. that's not my game. i'm gonna play hardball.
speaker3: what's going on?
speaker2: i'm gonna find out everything about this son of a and then i'm gonna find the one thing that cuts him to the quick.
speaker4: let's go inside... make some calls.

speaker1: well, then, believe it. there's no sense not to believe it, because you did it... so believe it. that's twenty more... you owe me sixty. 
speaker2: you think i can't add?
speaker1: 'dayo!... da, da, da, da, day. daylight come and he wanna go home...'
speaker3: oh, this is going to be good.
speaker1: 'dayo!... da, da, da, da, da, da, da.' 'daylight come and he wanna go home...'

speaker1: tilley. 
speaker1: found this on your desk while i was going over some papers.
speaker2: from the irs. i never even remember seeing it. i must have left it with my other bills. i wonder what it is?
speaker1: maybe it's a refund check.
speaker2: hum... says here that they haven't received my 1962 taxes. they seem to be saying that they didn't get my check for four thousand dollars.
speaker1: what? it must be a clerical error.
speaker2: i can't believe they spend all that time and energy to write to me... to single me out.
speaker1: what are you talking about? you didn't pay your taxes?
speaker2: i probably forgot... people forget their taxes all the time... just slipped my mind... i got so many things on my mind.

speaker1: i figured they could wait a few years... it's not like they need my money to build a bomber. you think they're waiting for my money before they dig a new road? are they all sitting there saying, 'well, it's time we went to see that guy on pimlico road... can't run this government without his four thousand dollars.' i figured they'd give me a little leeway. i'm going to pay them... i know i've got a debt... i just need a little leeway. 
speaker2: you can't mess around with the government. why don't you go to h and r block, they'll take care of your taxes for you.
speaker1: you think i'm gonna let some schmuck know all my business... have some guy pull me over the coals for spending on this and that. i need some privacy.
speaker2: taxes is serious stuff, tilley.
speaker1: i can just see that schmuck in that little tax shop telling people my business... how much i make... how much i spend...
speaker2: all i can say, is you better get a lawyer or somebody to look into this, 'cos the irs, they don't around.
speaker1: just what i need in my life right now... i'm in a slump and i've got the irs on me. like when something goes wrong, it's like...

speaker1: are these any good do ya know? 
speaker2: i don't think they're too good for you, not a lot of 'em anyway.
speaker1: my wife died.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry to hear that.
speaker1: i'm over it now, but it was a very trying time... very trying... i've only just started eating again.

speaker1: you know what would be a lot more healthy and satisfying is to get yourself a chicken... just pop it in the oven for a couple of hours with a little bit of seasoning on it. makes a good meal, and you can make sandwiches with the leftovers. 
speaker2: but then you have to sit and watch it cook. something seems sad about a man sitting alone in a house and watching a chicken cook.

speaker1: thank you, mr. tilley. i can't believe it... this is the most generous thing anyone's ever done ... swell! like a gift from heaven. 
speaker2: the lord has certainly blessed us this evening.
speaker3: well, what can i say... i'm a modest person... i just do what i can to help.
speaker1: thanks again.

speaker1: so, what's the scoop? 
speaker2: we got 'em!
speaker1: you're kidding?
speaker2: take a look at this, sam.
speaker1: are you crazy? you just gave them forty-two hundred dollars in aluminum siding free?!

speaker1: this is the best scam i've ever thought of in my whole life. he kisses his hands with wild smacking sounds. he's ecstatic. 
speaker1: it's in my blood... i'm brilliant ... i'm brilliant... this is such a brilliant scam... i'm beside myself.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: here it is... you go back in the house and this is what you say...

speaker1: mr. tilley is crazy... he had a nervous breakdown. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: he's been under a lot of pressure recently... he snapped... he had a nervous breakdown... it's the saddest thing i've ever seen. let's be honest about it, nobody gives away forty-two hundred dollars' worth of aluminum siding free.
speaker2: i thought it was very generous, but sometimes the lord moves in mysterious ways.

speaker1: let me tell you something, when i go and see his boss and show him this contract, he's out of this business... he'll lose his home ... his wife and kids will be thrown out onto the street. he'll probably spend some time in an institution, so knows what will happen to his wife and kids. 
speaker2: why do they have to be thrown out onto the street?
speaker1: you don't expect his boss to pick up the forty-two hundred job, do ya?
speaker2: hmm.
speaker1: yeah, it's a bad state of affairs. let me ask you something, sir.
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: you don't think there's some way you could work with me to try and resolve this, do you?
speaker2: how so?
speaker1: let's look at it this way, what if i can sell you this job at a wholesale price... kind of lessens the burden. the big boss won't get so angry, and maybe won't throw the guy's wife and kids out... at least they'll have a roof over their heads.
speaker2: what kind of wholesale price are we talking about?

speaker1: you got a cup of coffee? 
speaker2: i'll get you a coffee... won't be a minute.
speaker1: let's just sit down and kick this around.
speaker1: no hurry, ma'am.
speaker1: what you doing throwing your money around?
speaker3: what's that?
speaker1: i found a five-dollar bill, here by the side of the chair.

speaker1: you're kidding? 
speaker2: yeah... he'd always put his hand over the break when he was measuring. nobody looks at a yardstick to see how long it is.
speaker3: i never did that... i never did that... i was never very good in arts and crafts. i could never make the ruler come out right.

speaker1: what else? give me another story ... these stories are great! 
speaker2: just a minute... i've got one. you know it's like the faster you can start spiking a job, the guy can't back out of the deal.

speaker1: fantastic, sam! a twenty-seven hundred sale! 'this job is free'! what a beaut! i'm out of the slump! tilley's riding high again ... tilley's back! we ought to go and celebrate. let's go to the corral and have a drink... we can turn the paperwork in a little later. 
speaker2: gil says that's where 'marengay' hangs out.
speaker1: gil keeps saying it... i've never seen him. i'm riding high... twenty-seven hundred dollars... 'this job is free'... the man went insane... lost control of himself... his wife and children are out on the street! sometimes i'm brilliant... i'm brilliant... i can't believe it.

speaker1: see that one, if you were married to that one two weeks you'd have to put your head out of the window for air... this one smothers. that one is the kind that can't live without you... ... 'where were you? when will you be home?' 
speaker2: i should get out of here. i told my wife i'd be home early tonight.
speaker1: christ! it's not even one o'clock yet. how long you been married now? what is it? twelve... twelve years?
speaker2: sixteen.
speaker1: holy sixteen years? what do you think? is it worth it?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: why do you think?
speaker2: it's hard to answer. seems better than if she wasn't there.
speaker1: quite a recommendation... can't wait to do it.

speaker1: scotch straight up? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: scotch straight up and a rum and coke for me.
speaker1: looks like there's good action here tonight.
speaker2: what do you expect, it's half price night for divorced women.

speaker1: i'm beginning to believe in 
speaker2: you were never one of those atheists, were you?
speaker1: no, i'm not saying that, but i'm beginning to give more thought.
speaker2: so, what did you do? have some kind of religious experience?
speaker1: i tell ya... i took my wife for lunch yesterday... we went and had some smorgasbord, and it kind of happened.
speaker2: you found at the smorgasbord?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: sam, people have religious experiences like on a lake or when they go up into the mountains, that kind of thing.
speaker1: maybe... but i had mine in a smorgasbord.

speaker1: sam, you're too much. 
speaker2: i went to get myself a salad and i started to see all these vegetables, you know how they have all those salads laid out so that when it's time to get to the main course you won't eat too much... that scam to get you filled up so you don't eat too much chicken and beef and all that other stuff.
speaker1: yeah, yeah... i get the point.
speaker2: so i see celery, i see the lettuce, tomatoes, cauliflower... and i think, all these things come out of the ground... they just grow out of the ground. they had corn -- out of the ground... radish -- out of the ground. you say to yourself, how can all these things come out of the ground? you know what i'm talking about? all these things are out of the ground.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i mean, how can that be? it just happened that way? and i'm not even getting into the fruits... i'm just dealing with vegetables right now. with all those things coming out of the earth, there must be a
speaker1: i'm not getting the same religious effect that came over you. i don't know why, but i don't feel like running to a church to pray right this second.

speaker1: you gotta admit, it's amazing. 
speaker2: yeah, yeah... i don't believe it. see the guy over there?
speaker2: that's the son of a who crsahed into my car.
speaker3: i don't believe it! mr. banana head is here.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: that crazy guy that banged into my car and smashed my windows in. i don't believe it! i'm gonna get him.

speaker1: you got a lot of nerve banging into my car, and you've got a lot of nerve smashing my windows in. 
speaker2: what're you talking about? why would i want to break your windows?
speaker1: you didn't smash my windows in?
speaker2: i'm a hard-working guy... i don't go around breaking windows.
speaker1: you didn't break my windows?! you didn't break my windows?!
speaker2: push me one more time and i'm gonna have to redefine your face.

speaker1: come on, let's go outside... let's settle this in the parking lot. 
speaker2: oh, no! you're not gonna get near my car... you're not gonna kick in my headlights again... ... what am i talking about? i didn't even drive tonight. you wanna duke it? let's go.

speaker1: what is this? what is this crowd here? we're charging admission? 
speaker2: back away... give me some elbow room.
speaker3: police!
speaker2: you're a lucky man... the police showed.
speaker1: we'll see who's the lucky one.

speaker1: surprise!!! 
speaker2: i never expected this. what a lovely cake.
speaker3: blow out the candles then.
speaker4: nine candles for nine months!
speaker5: we'll miss you, ada... you'd better bring that baby in to visit us.
speaker3: register him for his social security number.
speaker6: i love ya, ada, and if you're smart you won't come back.
speaker6: i've just decided... i'm going out with him.

speaker1: you're kidding? 
speaker2: i have to. i just want to know what it's like to be with someone else.
speaker2: because if what i've got with tilley is as good as it gets, i just... ... i gotta know.
speaker1: well, how are you going to manage it?
speaker2: tilley doesn't get home until at least two in the morning.
speaker1: i hope you know what you're doing ... you speak to some guy at the frozen food section for five minutes, you could jeopardize your whole marriage.
speaker2: everything i've done in my life has been safe and practical, and where's that gotten me? well, here's to who knows what.

speaker1: i'm still nervous. 
speaker2: well, i guess that's to be expected.
speaker1: no, not right now.
speaker2: every time i listen to sinatra, i always remember when i used to work in atlantic city back in the late 40's... you know, a busboy job... sinatra used to play at the 500 club, and we used to take our dates and say, 'hey, you wanna go and hear sinatra?' then we'd just lean on the door of the club in the alley and listen to the music. i think the girls were looking for something a bit more uptown.
speaker1: i'd go with you and lean against the door.
speaker1: you've got a pretty good aim.
speaker2: i sure do.

speaker1: hey, tilley, somebody wants ya on the phone. 
speaker2: yeah, this is tilley...

speaker1: he must have gone crazy... i don't know what happened to him... he must have found out i was with you... i don't know... i don't know what to do. 
speaker1: can i stay with you for a day or two?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: hello, this is gibraltar aluminum siding company, we're taking a survey... 
speaker2: ... would you be interested in our field representative giving you a home demonstration?
speaker3: ... home demonstration. we will have some factory representatives in your area today as it happens.
speaker4: tilley! let me see you.
speaker5: wing, give me a minute to get a cup of coffee here.
speaker6: what about 'super highway' in the seventh... it's paying 7 to 1. ran well in its last race.
speaker7: 'super highway'...
speaker5: four in the fourth... twenty bucks.
speaker6: who's that?
speaker5: i don't know... it just came to me -- number four in the fourth.

speaker1: number four in the fourth -- 'rider's revenge' -- 60 to 1, never been in the money. nice pick, tilley. why don't you just throw the twenty dollars in the trash can right now. 
speaker2: 'rider's revenge'... i like that name. i've gotta go and see wing. look, we can be scientific from now to doomsday, but we gotta be gutsy and go for the big one.

speaker1: ah! ah! 
speaker1: what's up, wing?
speaker2: you lost a sale, tilley. the hudsons' loan didn't go through.
speaker1: what do ya mean? they wouldn't clear the loan?

speaker1: this mr. hudson's some guy. he's got three outstanding shoplifting charges, failure to pay child support from a previous marriage ... guy's overdue on his mortgage, overdue on his car loan, and he was fired from his last job for misappropriation of funds. 
speaker2: what's wrong with this world? there are sick people out there! thievin' son of a like that takes up my time... cuts into the amount of hours i have available to deal with other people interested in my wares! there's no sympathy for the working man in this country.
speaker1: they don't make our job easy, tilley.
speaker2: wing, it was such a beautiful thing... you shoulda seen how i worked. like a magician... 'this job is free'! it was my best... my best! there's no justice in this world... there ain't no justice.
speaker1: did you see the paper?
speaker2: what section?
speaker1: take a look at this.
speaker2: 'home improvement commission... hearings begin today..." is this mccarthyism? what are they gonna see? if there are any communists?

speaker1: free storm windows? 
speaker2: yes. that you would provide a free set of storm windows with the sale of aluminum siding.
speaker1: no, sir. i wouldn't be able to make any money if i was giving away storm windows. my cost of a storm window is somewhere like...

speaker1: the storm windows, as i can recall, was not an issue. i mentioned that i thought the storm windows would cut down on their heating bill, and that they would obviously enhance the look of the house with the aluminum siding work we were going to do. 
speaker2: so, you weren't dangling a free set of storm windows as a come-on to selling them the aluminum siding job? because it says here, and i'm reading from a statement from mr. tabaleri...
speaker3: what do ya make of all this?
speaker4: it's the future, moe... it's the future.
speaker2: 'it was my understanding that the storm windows were included in the price of the sale.'

speaker1: i dunno... looks like any tin man gets in that hot seat, then he's had it. 
speaker2: then they can take your license forever... it don't seem fair.
speaker1: boy, i tell ya, i bet you could sell a ton of these things.
speaker2: that? too silly-looking.
speaker1: ever see a dealership?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: interesting.

speaker1: i keep racking my brain. i gotta find a way to really get even with this guy. it isn't enough to wreck his car... even breaking into his house and messing it up or something, that don't have enough impact. i mean, the man poked my wife! i gotta come up with something ingenious... something ingenious. 
speaker2: so, what do ya think?
speaker1: i think i'll take some meatloaf.
speaker3: meatloaf.
speaker1: no, i think i'll have some fish. no, no... fish doesn't fill you up. meatloaf.
speaker3: so, it's meatloaf?
speaker2: what do you think, 'sally's pride' in the second? get me a mary.
speaker3: anything other than the mary?
speaker1: what number is sally's pride?

speaker1: six. no, i don't like to eat until the third race. 
speaker2: six... six... six... six. i'm thinking one. whose one?
speaker1: mr. motor.
speaker2: then that's it, i'm going with one.
speaker1: tilley, this is insane. you're picking horses because you think you're clairvoyant or something.
speaker2: sam, i'm not doing too well by checking the stats, so why not. i put my hand to my forehead, i see a one -- mr. motor in the second... twenty bucks.
speaker1: hallihan's daughter.
speaker2: i got it... i got it...
speaker2: three to one... hundred and sixty smackers. hand to the forehead! hand to the forehead!

speaker1: you're not exactly talking about a long shot. mr. motor, for instance, is coming off at 50 to 1. 
speaker2: third race, i see a six... i see a three. i don't think the verdict's in on that one yet.
speaker2: wing paid a hundred on number five, he loses, i got hundred and forty... next race i'll lay down the bet. what you taking in this race?
speaker1: thrifty's delight -- number four -- 20 bucks.
speaker2: you take thrifty's delight -- 20 bucks, i got 20 on mr. motor, wing's got a hundred on night fire. what's the odds on night fire?
speaker1: twenty to one.
speaker2: i don't see night fire winning. it, i'm not gonna even place the bet... i just made a hundred bucks.
speaker1: what are you, crazy? what happens if he wins?
speaker2: he's not gonna win... i feel it.

speaker1: i tell you something, she's getting on my nerves. 
speaker2: who, nora?
speaker1: yeah, yeah... who else is it gonna be... 'who, nora"!... who else is there? the whole idea of being with a girl on consecutive nights is new to me. it's one thing when they're with you for a night, but when they live with ya, it's stretching the point. they got a lot of things they bring with them... you go to the bathroom you see 'things' you never saw before.
speaker2: so, what's the todo?

speaker1: well, they move your stuff around and it's not where it used to be... i'm not used to that. 
speaker2: you mean all this time you've never lived with a girl?
speaker1: what?! did we just meet? how long we been partners? no, i've never lived with a girl!
speaker2: boy, oh boy! did you wake up on the wrong side of the bed today?
speaker1: yes, i did. i came in last night, she was sleeping on my side of the bed. in my life i never got out of bed on the left side... in my life, never from the left. i got close once up in the catskills. i met this girl, dorian. for a week we were together, but it wasn't the same because she always went to her room to change and do all that stuff. she didn't have things in my room.
speaker1: all this 'cos i'm trying to get even with some guy. you know what? i think i got to see her and put an end to this.

speaker1: is that him? 
speaker2: yes. bill!
speaker3: yeah.

speaker1: i'm glad you stopped by. this is a real surprise. 
speaker2: listen, i got a problem.
speaker1: oh. how can i help?
speaker2: um... er... well, the problem is... like... is like... eh, you know... you're the problem.

speaker1: really. how so? 
speaker2: there's things that are bothering me.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: you know... things.
speaker1: things?
speaker2: you know, like things that come up... stuff... like... you know, annoyances.
speaker1: annoyances?
speaker2: hard to explain... very hard.
speaker1: well, try.
speaker2: as an example... i came home last night, i get undressed, and i realize you're sleeping on my side of the bed. i've always slept on that side... it's something i've always done.
speaker1: then why didn't you just nudge me a bit and tell me to go and sleep on the other side?
speaker2: i didn't want to wake you up... i thought you might think it was kind of stupid or something.
speaker1: well, that's easily changed.

speaker1: but there are other things... bigger things. but i realize just talking about it, they all sound petty and silly. 
speaker2: listen, if you think all of this is going too fast, maybe i should move out. is that what you want, bill?
speaker2: i really care for you, but if you think it's best. i don't want to make you unhappy.
speaker1: i don't think we've got to take drastic action.
speaker1: thought i'd come by and get things off my chest... talk it out. listen, i'm going over to pimlico... catch the seventh race... wanna come?
speaker2: i can't get away from work.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: way to go... southern belle. 
speaker1: should have bet with me, moe.

speaker1: very nice! 
speaker2: that was your horse, wing?
speaker1: yeah... southern belle. you oughta know, you bet her for me.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: i'm gonna go with the favorite in this one -- fordnee lane.

speaker1: i tell you what, i won sixteen plus on the other race, from those winnings you can bet me eight hundred. 
speaker2: eight hundred?
speaker1: yeah... i wanna bet eight hundred on fordnee lane.
speaker2: fordnee lane -- eight hundred.
speaker2: eight hundred.
speaker1: waiter, can you get me a cup of coffee?
speaker1: you guys want anything else?
speaker2: er... hum... er... hey, wing...
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: it's the eight hundred on fordnee lane. i haven't got it.
speaker1: no, you got it wrong. you take it from the sixteen plus i won...

speaker1: i haven't got the winnings. 
speaker2: what do ya mean, you don't have my winnings?
speaker1: wing, it was the craziest thing... i didn't want to mention it earlier because it was so nuts... it was the craziest thing.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't know how to even tell you this without being embarrassed for myself. it was an accident... it's like one of those things out of the blue... it's crazy... you can't explain it... it happens.
speaker2: sam, what is he talking about?
speaker3: he had an accident of some sort.
speaker1: it happens... i don't know how... i don't know how to explain. it's too crazy, i swear to wing.
speaker2: wait a minute... you're telling me that i didn't win the last race?
speaker1: you won, wing... you won, it's just that you're not getting any money... it was a fluke. i swear, i don't know how it could have happened. a ten-year-old couldn't have made the mistake i made... i don't know, i swear.

speaker1: what the is he talking about? 
speaker2: if there was some way i could make it up, believe me, i would, because you know where i stand.
speaker2: you know where i stand, wing. if there was any way, believe me, i'd make it up. i'd give you thirty percent of what you didn't get because it was a fluke... i'm willing to make some kind of retribution.
speaker1: you just pocketed the money... you just took my money and slipped it into your pocket, didn't you?
speaker2: no. i'd split fifty-fifty with you, that's how badly i feel under the circumstances.
speaker1: you get this straight, you son of a you owe me sixteen plus... i want sixteen plus.
speaker2: am i trying to shirk my responsibility? that's not the way i see it... it was a fluke, a crazy thing that happened, but i stand behind my honor on this...
speaker1: what the is wrong with him? what the is wrong with him? he's stealing money from me... what the is wrong with him?

speaker1: i don't know the whole story. 
speaker2: you work with him, sam... for christ sake...
speaker3: what do you mean, wrong? it was a fluke... it was an accident. i don't know what the went wrong. it was a one-in-a-million thing that happened to me when i went to place that bet. i'm trying to do what i can.
speaker2: tilley, what the happened to you?

speaker1: why didn't you at least give him the six hundred that you pocketed from the six races he lost? 
speaker2: him! it's on my tab. at least i've got six hundred in my pocket right now. it's like another loan. sam, you got to think about today. today, i got six hundred bucks in my pocket. you know what i'm saying?
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: it's like some guy trying to sell me life insurance. you think i'm gonna take some money out of my pocket to give to some jerk so that somebody can take it when i'm dead? no, sam, you gotta live for today. i'm gonna live as good as i can every day. you know what i'm saying? 
speaker1: hey, mr. marengay went to the track!
speaker2: did you bother to bet, or did you just hand your money to the tellers?
speaker1: the sarcasm's killing me. i thought you were looking to get even.
speaker2: who's your accountant, mister, 'cos i think you're down in the debit side.
speaker1: who's stuck with my wife. you or me?
speaker2: you want me to believe that you were setting me up with your wife as some kind of decoy?
speaker1: decoy is the word!

speaker1: okay then, you win. 
speaker2: i win? that guy would never let me win. he must be setting me up. the son of a is setting me up, sam.
speaker3: for crying out loud, why don't you just leave it at that... you win.
speaker2: i couldn't have won. i smell a rat.

speaker1: bb, i think you're getting a little humility in your blood. 
speaker2: if getting nora is part of losing, thank i didn't win.

speaker1: this is good, stan... nice work. 
speaker1: fossey says it should go down very well with the city council. could help us appropriate more funds. this goes a long way to establish our credibility in what we're trying to do.
speaker2: there's a lot more where this came from.
speaker1: you know what i think you should do now. why don't you pull some files... some files that were completed, others that went unsold, and i'll have somebody run it down, talk to the customers and get some statements.
speaker2: pulling files is another thing.
speaker1: to sneak a few here and there when you can.
speaker2: i'll see.
speaker1: i think that might be good.

speaker1: what do you think if we made this one of our factory showcase houses? 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker3: it's a good location... get a lot of traffic on this street.

speaker1: what does that mean, mr. gable? 
speaker2: you know what i do, alan? i pick certain houses that are strategically located, we put up the aluminum siding, and for every referral, for every person who sees this quality job that we do... sees how beautiful it is... i give you two hundred dollars.
speaker1: two hundred dollars?
speaker2: that's right. knows how many homes we could sell by people passing this house. it's perfectly placed for that. alan, this is how confident i feel that this house will drum up business for me.

speaker1: four hundred dollars... i'm giving you commission on two house referrals before i put a panel on the side of your house... that's how confident i feel. 
speaker2: you think that many people are going to...
speaker1: i'm certain of it. i'm not giving away four hundred dollars for my health... i'm a businessman, and i'm a good businessman. this is good business for me. i'm giving it away 'cos i believe in this house, believe that it will refer me to other jobs which means money in my pocket, which means money in your pocket.
speaker2: you got a deal, mr. gable.
speaker2: something wrong, sir?

speaker1: i finally got hold of may... she was over your sister's. 
speaker2: oh, i forgot.
speaker1: she'll be down here shortly.

speaker1: bb, i don't have any insurance. if i die, may's got nothing... nothing... nothing for leonard. the only money i've got is in my pocket. that's all i got. 
speaker2: just take it easy, moe... rest.
speaker1: did they sign? did they sign?
speaker2: don't worry about it now.
speaker1: it, bb! did you sign them?
speaker2: don't worry... don't worry. i'll take care of it tomorrow.
speaker1: goddamn, my chest hurts. i always taught you, bb, never walk out of a place without a signed contract. somebody's word ain't spit.
speaker2: they'll sign, moe. don't worry, they'll sign.

speaker1: why? do you think you have some obligation? 
speaker2: i dunno... i thought i'd better call, that's all.
speaker1: well, i'm glad you did.
speaker2: i don't know what's gonna happen to moe.
speaker1: well, i hope he's okay. i'll see you when you get in.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: let me see what the damage is. babum... babum... babum... babum... 
speaker1: mouse, figure it out, will ya?
speaker2: why don't we just split it five ways?

speaker1: no way! i didn't eat anything, so why should i pay for mouse... 
speaker2: well, sometimes you'll eat more than he does, and it'll even out.
speaker1: no way! he's a pig! he always eats more than anyone else. why should i pay for his food?
speaker3: what're you talking about? today i happened to have eggs and flapjacks, some cantalope, some juice and then another juice.
speaker1: like an animal! like an animal!
speaker3: but yesterday, what did i have?
speaker1: what did he have? sam, what did he have?
speaker2: let me get out my notebook. how the do i know what he had?
speaker1: well i don't remember what he had. gil, what did he have?
speaker4: pancakes?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: then what did you have?
speaker3: guess.

speaker1: what is this, a quiz show? we don't know what you had. what did you have? 
speaker2: i had very little.
speaker1: very little!! you eat like an animal! it couldn't have been very little.
speaker2: i didn't have that much... doesn't anybody remember?
speaker3: we don't remember, i don't know why.
speaker4: i could have sworn he had pancakes.
speaker1: he said he didn't have pancakes.
speaker2: i'll give you a clue... maple syrup was used.
speaker1: i don't give a
speaker3: french toast.
speaker1: french toast? he had more than french toast.
speaker2: yes, but not a lot more.
speaker1: i don't give a it's split five ways.

speaker1: was not long ago you never would have seen a woman in here. 
speaker2: you don't have to tell me. how many nights did you drop me off and come up here all the time?
speaker1: i know. i was just trying to be congenial... you know, start a conversation off, on a nice kind of light level, you know.
speaker2: well you know, i think we really should get divorced.
speaker1: makes sense. you want some more coffee?
speaker2: yeah, i'll have some.
speaker1: florence, some coffee here. it's for the best. you know, we were kind of fooling ourselves, weren't we?

speaker1: yes, it went wrong somewhere along the line -- i don't know where though. 
speaker2: yes, something went wrong... i don't know.
speaker2: so you like this guy?
speaker1: yeah, i like him.
speaker2: all in all i guess it'll all work out for the best.
speaker1: i'm glad you feel that way.
speaker2: yeah, can you figure it out? a guy bangs into my car, thinks i did him in, tries to get even with me by stealing my wife, you two people fall in love... can you figure that out?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you telling me you didn't know this was the guy?
speaker1: this was that guy?
speaker2: yeah, i told you i ran into another tin man.
speaker1: he didn't tell me he was a tin man... he told me he sold baby pictures.

speaker1: it's your life. all i know is this guy has a bent weather vane. 
speaker2: oh, not another tin man.

speaker1: good afternoon, this is superior aluminum siding. we're going to have... 
speaker2: ... a salesman in your area today... bb is sitting in a chair across from looney.
speaker3: beeb, why don't you let stanley work with you. i'm off to florida at the end of the week for some sun and fun. let stanley work with you, and when i get back, we'll see how moe's doing.
speaker4: i don't know. to be honest with you, i think i'd rather work alone ... he's too green. is he a pain in the ass?
speaker3: no. he don't talk much; he's a good listener, so he can't really get on your nerves. he's a lousy pool player and he can't play cards for but...
speaker4: so what good is he?

speaker1: studious type... takes a lot of notes. 
speaker2: if this is a sales pitch, i think you got to work a little harder 'cos i don't think you've got good product.

speaker1: what are you, crazy?! 
speaker2: you're a tin man!
speaker1: wait a minute! wait a minute!
speaker2: you wanted to win me just to get even with my husband... screw you!

speaker1: i think you ought to get rid of this car... it's bad luck. 
speaker1: is that the guy again?
speaker2: no, it's his wife.
speaker1: there's some kind of sickness that runs in that family.

speaker1: why can't they get rid of that record? it's not a hit anymore... nobody cares about this song anymore... it's history. 
speaker2: 'day-o! da,da,da,da,day...'
speaker3: we can always smash the juke box, or break in and steal the record.

speaker1: he's getting on my nerves. the guy eats like an animal, and sings like an 
speaker2: maybe it's me, but i'm beginning to like it.
speaker1: yes, sir... yes, sir!

speaker1: take a look at this crap. 
speaker2: irs? they're not gonna leave me alone!
speaker1: home improvement commission.
speaker2: we've got to appear?
speaker1: i think that's the gist of what they're saying.
speaker3: holy christ!
speaker2: can't we just ignore it? how do they know we got the letter.

speaker1: it's certified. 
speaker2: what do you think, sam?
speaker1: i dunno... i don't know what they've got.
speaker2: why is this happening? am i paranoid or something? i mean, why is this happening? the government is after me... the state is after me... mr. marengay ... somebody is always after me. what the hell's going on here? i'm just this guy. what's the big deal? they can't get along without me? the government can't operate unless they've got tilley's money... the commission's after my job! this shit's driving me insane! all the lying, thieving, stealing corporations in this world, and the irs takes the time to come for me? there's billions of dollars out there but they've got to come and get tilley's four thousand dollars! turn off the belafonte song now, or i'm gonna break the machine!!

speaker1: come on, beeb, let's dance. 
speaker2: not tonight, ruthie, my dancing shoes are on holiday.
speaker1: you sure?

speaker1: i'm more than sure. 
speaker2: who was the best you ever saw?
speaker1: best i ever saw? best tin man i ever saw?
speaker1: harry apel... dandy flynn... those guys had good lines, but they burned themselves out too fast. best? moe's the best... the best there ever was. if he's in the door, he's got a sale. the best closer ever.
speaker2: what's some of the hustles he used to pull?
speaker1: nora... nora! i'm trying to adjust... i'm putting up with things i never put up with in my life. i mean, give me a break... give me a break, woman.
speaker2: so, what are a couple of things you and moe have done?
speaker1: it was getting to be real pleasant ... figure that. more than pleasant. to with her!

speaker1: how come moe's so good? why do you think, huh? 
speaker2: great man, moe. great man.
speaker2: i don't know why they're so irrational... chicks. i dunno. i think it's because air gets inside 'em. she probably went back home, to her husband. eleven-thirty... he wouldn't be home yet. this outght to cover it, stanley.

speaker1: they've got nothing concrete against us, because if it's just hearsay stuff, it's neither here nor there. 
speaker2: where's my car? what happened to my car?
speaker1: it's better i drop you off.
speaker2: yeah, it's better.

speaker1: you're a sick man! you smash my car, you steal my wife, and now you come to rob me! you're one demented human being. 
speaker1: i'm going to call the police and send you to jail... but i'm going to humiliate you first.
speaker2: what're you doing?
speaker1: what do ya want to break into my house for? this ain't the rockefeller mansion! there ain't thirty-eight television sets here.

speaker1: they ain't saying 'nelson, i think we've had a break-in... count the sets to see how many we've got left.' there ain't tons of jewelry hanging out of drawers... it ain't like i don't know which watch to put on, i got so many. i'm a working man, trying to make an honest living. what morality you got, asshole?!! 
speaker2: you're the craziest human being on the face of this earth!
speaker1: what else do you want from me? huh? what else?! i've got enough problems with the i.r.s. busting my and the home improvement commission to contend with. i don't need aggravation from you.
speaker2: nobody does this to me and lives!
speaker1: how do ya like your eggs? over easy? side of tomatoes?
speaker2: you're going to rue the day you ran into my car. this ain't the end... this is just the beginning.

speaker1: a guy breaks into my house and i'm being charged with assault? it makes no sense... 
speaker2: let's get it down right. the guy broke into your house, you hit him in the head with a gun, went to the refrigerator, took out eggs and tomatoes and threw them at him.
speaker1: i was defending myself... he was stealing from me.
speaker2: it doesn't sound like defense to me.
speaker1: i wanted to humiliate the guy. here i am, out busting my all day making a decent living, i come home, and some schmuck is trying to steal from me.
speaker2: so you hit him with a gun, and pelted him with eggs and tomatoes?
speaker1: if i had some soup i would have thrown soup at him... is there any law you can't throw eggs?
speaker2: mr. babowski claims he didn't break into your house.
speaker1: what did i do? invite him in so that i could throw eggs at him?

speaker1: maybe mr. babowski intended to break into your house, but these circumstances of the guy being pelted with eggs and tomatoes is something we need to look into. 
speaker2: he's lucky that he didn't rob me last week, 'cos then my wife was living at home and we had all kinds of things in the fridge... i could have thrown barley soup, pumpkin pie, candied yams... yeah, he got off light.

speaker1: i can't believe it, the man throws eggs at me and now i'm gonna have breakfast with him. 
speaker2: his partner says maybe the two of you can sit down and come to some kind of settlement.

speaker1: i tell you what... i'll drop the charges against you, and we can wipe the slate clean. 
speaker2: i appreciate it.
speaker3: see how quickly you can clear it up?
speaker2: but i don't understand how the slate gets wiped clean when he breaks into my house and i'm the one charged.
speaker1: i told you, i wasn't breaking into your house. i was looking for your wife.
speaker2: all right... all right... i'm too tired... the slate's clean... the slate's clean.

speaker1: what will you have? 
speaker2: couple of eggs over, some hash browns, some toast -- toasted dark... butter on the side, large grapefruit juice and some coffee.
speaker2: on second thought, instead of the eggs over, if i ordered soft boiled eggs do you take them out of the shell or leave them in the shells?
speaker1: we leave them in the shell.
speaker2: i don't like them that way because they get hot in the hand and it's hard to scoop the stuff out... it's not good... and you get little bits of shell in there and it doesn't taste good.
speaker3: why don't you just order some scrambled eggs and be done with it... all right?
speaker2: if i'm going to order, at least i ought to be content with my food.
speaker3: i'm getting a little hungry... i've got a headache as it is. just order some eggs so some other people can have something to eat before the lunch trade comes in.
speaker2: why do i need a guy telling me what i should or shouldn't eat?

speaker1: this is not a four-star restaurant ... we're not having a gourmet meal... we're ordering breakfast, for christ sake! 
speaker2: it so happens i haven't been to this restaurant before. i don't know how they do their eggs... if they're over easy and they're gooey, i'm not happy with it... and i'm not happy if the soft boiled eggs are left in the shell...
speaker1: can i have some french toast and a cup of coffee? bagel, what do you want?
speaker2: hey! i'm ordering here. at least you can have the courtesy to let a man order his breakfast.
speaker1: french toast and a cup of coffee.
speaker2: sam, this guy gets on my nerves... from day one! i knew it then and i know it now.
speaker1: i'm back to pressing charges against you!
speaker2: you want to play that way? this game ain't over, mister... it ain't over...

speaker1: all right, you want to finish it now? you want to finish it right now? i'm ready... i'm ready now! 
speaker2: you're ready?! you're ready, that's what you're saying?! you're ready now?! i have to be intimidated... i have to be brought here to be intimidated...
speaker1: i can't stand it any longer. you're driving me out of my mind.
speaker3: come on, guys... take it easy...
speaker2: get the people with the straitjackets... this man is out of control.
speaker1: we're gonna finish it... we're gonna finish it.
speaker4: come on, let's get out of here.
speaker2: i'm not finished with him, sam. you heard me... i'm not finished with you, mister.

speaker1: moe, when you decided to marry may, how did you know? 
speaker2: know what?
speaker1: how did ya know?
speaker2: you mean to make up my mind to marry her?
speaker1: yeah. how did ya know?
speaker1: this nora is a pain in the ass, moe... a pain in the ass. it's worse now than when she used to be around.
speaker1: you wanna hear something? the other night at the corral club, i turned down a dance.

speaker1: you turned down a dance? 
speaker2: what's the odds on that? you think you can come up with odds on that one?
speaker1: hundred to one bb don't dance... a hundred to one against.
speaker1: i'm getting out of the business, bb... i've got nothing for all this.
speaker2: lot of good times, moe.
speaker1: a lot of good times, but i can't live off the good times. you know, my brother-in-law has offered me a job at hess shoes. i think maybe i should do it. you get there in the morning, you come home at night... you get health benefits... i get to be assistant manager.
speaker2: that's it, moe? you're gonna spend the day measuring people's feet? 'you're an "e" fit... you're a "d" wide... you got a high arch... i'll show you something in an alligator... something with a wing tip...' how can you talk about that all day long? moe, you're the best tin man there ever was. nobody's a better closer.
speaker1: it's over, bb... it's over.

speaker1: so, may's happy about this hess shoe thing, heh? 
speaker2: to say the least.

speaker1: you know, when i saw 'bonanza' the other day, something occurred to me. there's those three guys living on the ponderosa and you never hear them say anything about wanting to get laid. you never hear hoss turn to little joe and say 'i had such a hard-on when i woke up this morning.' you know ... they never talk about broads ... nothing. ya never hear little joe say 'hey, hoss, i went into virginia city and saw a girl with the greatest i ever saw in my life.' ya just see 'em walking around the ponderosa saying, 'yes, pa,' and 'where's little joe?' nothing about broads. i don't think i'm being too picky... at least once if they talked about getting horny. i don't care if you're living on the ponderosa or right here in baltimore, guys talk about getting laid. i'm beginning to think that show doesn't have too much realism. 
speaker2: sam, i can't concentrate on 'bonanza'

speaker1: i've got too much on my brain, what with that and the home improvement commission, i don't want to have to worry about whether little joe got laid last night. let's go and eat something. 
speaker2: yeah, we'll go and have some lunch at the smorgasbord.

speaker1: if you're responsible for all the stuff down here, maybe you got a moment's attention for me. between the i.r.s., this home improvement commission and mr. marengay, i got it up to here with this to be frank with you, i'm in the toilet here. if you can see your way... a woman with a tray starts to approach tilley. tilley turns to her. 
speaker1: listen, i'm praying here... go around.
speaker2: i wanted to get some of the salad.
speaker1: it's out of order... go around.

speaker1: nora tilley, please. 
speaker2: what department is she with?
speaker1: she's with social security.
speaker2: which department is social security?
speaker1: i dunno... she's there somewhere ... yeah, on the third floor...
speaker2: just a moment... checking.

speaker1: stanley, can i help you look for something? 
speaker2: no, i'm just making myself busy.
speaker1: well, i wouldn't do that. bagel don't like nobody looking at the files.

speaker1: mrs. tilley. 
speaker2: nora, this is bb.

speaker1: didn't you approach mr. boloshevski august 18, 1961, while he was cutting his front lawn and tell him that his house had been selected, as one of only 16 homes in the state of maryland, for a free aluminum siding job? 
speaker2: what's the name again?
speaker1: boloshevski.
speaker2: doesn't ring a bell. sam, does it ring a bell to you?
speaker3: it doesn't ring a bell to me either, sir.
speaker1: didn't you suggest that for a nominal labor charge, he would receive over five thousand dollars' worth of aluminum siding?

speaker1: that's an awful lot for nothing. doesn't sound like good business to me. 
speaker2: mr. boloshevski was ultimately charged twenty-four hundred dollars for labor, which according to our figures is about the average cost of an aluminum siding job.
speaker3: i don't get the point of this.
speaker2: twenty-four hundred dollars that you charged for labor, is the same as if mr. boloshevski had purchased the aluminum siding and had the labor done.
speaker1: maybe i'm missing the point here, but if he paid twenty-four hundred, which is the cost of the job, i can't see anything wrong with that. i don't know the guy, but i don't quite get the problem.
speaker2: what we're getting at here... what we're trying to stress, is that the job was sold under false terms. the man didn't win any award... he was not getting aluminum siding at a special price. a clear case of deception was involved here.
speaker1: what's he talking about? the man got the job for twenty-four hundred dollars, and that's what it costs in aluminum siding.

speaker1: um... i don't know... we have no recollection of this particular job, but i don't know if this is deception. look, if you work in a clothing store, some guy tries on a suit, it looks like but you tell him it looks wonderful. the guy's standing there looking like a sack of the salesman says what a great suit and the man buys it. that's deception as far as i can see, but i don't understand the deceptiveness that you say we're responsible for... 
speaker2: i'd go along with that as well.
speaker3: what we're trying to establish are the principles that have been laid down as part of the home improvement code of ethics... that you cannot mislead someone intentionally, and i think that's the principle that applies to this.
speaker1: did somebody put a gun to this guy's head and make him spend twenty-four hundred dollars? i don't get the point here. i don't know the specifics of this case, not being privy to all the information, but all i can say is this guy got a fair price for a fair job.
speaker4: do you know mr. and mrs. rayburn of 156 aberdeen avenue, essex?

speaker1: i think you'd have to familiarize me. 
speaker2: the couple purchased twenty-eight hundred dollars' worth of aluminum siding and the two of you were the salesmen on record. they say, and i quote here, 'that they would have received one hundred and fifty dollars per home for every person in the neighborhood who saw their house and decided to buy aluminum siding.' is that true?
speaker1: it sounds right.
speaker2: are you aware that, according to the home improvement code, you are not allowed to exceed a twenty dollar limit in incentives?
speaker1: we wanted to be a little more generous, that's all.
speaker2: the couple said that they never did receive any money from any other jobs, as you had promised.
speaker3: we didn't get any leads from them. their house was not the showplace that we thought it would be. it didn't generate the activity that we had hoped.

speaker1: but should a referral turn up in the community, we'd be more than happy to give them twenty dollars instead of the hundred and fifty. 
speaker2: excuse us for one moment.
speaker2: thank you very much, gentlemen. should there be a reason in the future to call you back, we would like to reserve that right.

speaker1: we beat 'em, sam... we beat 'em! what a piece of cake! no problem! they ain't got nothing on us... clean as a whistle... we're clean as a whistle! 
speaker2: i need a drink. i hate inquisitions.

speaker1: i gotta talk to you. 
speaker2: i don't want to listen.
speaker1: give me a chance to explain. you owe me that much.
speaker2: i don't owe you anything.
speaker1: it was a lousy thing to do, okay? it was a lousy thing to use you to get back at your husband... but the fact is that i never would have met you otherwise.
speaker1: it was lousy... it was a disgusting, terrible thing...
speaker2: what kind of a person would come up with such a devious thing?
speaker1: i'm not always a nice guy, i admit that. i got a lot of training in deceit... it's an occupational hazard.

speaker1: i'd like to know what it is about me that i have to fall for tin men. what kind of character flaw do i have? 
speaker2: i didn't want to have to come here. i wish that i didn't have to ever see you again. i've gone this far in my life without having to have this kind of thing happen to me. i was going through life, sailing along, pretty good... doing okay, and i tried to get even with some crazy guy... and i'm here.
speaker1: the wet becomes you. gets rid of some of the slickness.
speaker2: i don't like the idea that i'm not in control of this, but if this stuff's got to happen, i guess i've got no choice. i wanna... ya know... ... i wanna be with ya! okay, i said that... i said it, okay?! i wanna be with ya! it the out of me, and i'm gonna tell you that to your face, but i want to be with you because... i miss you and i'd like to live with you... i'd like to marry you... and that's that!
speaker1: i was hoping for something a little more romantic... but, okay.

speaker1: ya know, tilley, we been working together for over a year. 
speaker2: yeah, must be about that.
speaker1: i've been thinking that sometimes a different combination makes for better luck. ya know what i mean? i mean, maybe the two of us ain't the right combination.
speaker2: i'm just getting used to ya, sam.
speaker1: let's face it, we're not exactly setting the world on fire.
speaker2: it's a slump... it's a slump, sam.
speaker1: maybe it's a slump, but like baseball, some time they have to change the lineup to get the team going again.
speaker2: you're not serious about this, are you, sam?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you're serious? you wanna get another partner? you don't think i'm gonna pull out of this?
speaker1: i know you're gonna... i know you're gonna.
speaker2: so?

speaker1: look, we beat the commission today ... you know, we got a little bit of a victory. we split right now and maybe we can add to that... 
speaker2: i know... i know. change in the lineup. okay, maybe it'll help... maybe it'll help. you got any ideas for a new partner?
speaker1: well, i had a conversation with solly shavitz, so... maybe i'll go with him. mouse is gonna need a new partner because dennis is going into used cars.
speaker2: mouse! mouse! he gets on my nerves... he eats too much. here's to some pretty good times, huh?

speaker1: i don't get it... the broad smashes into his car and he takes her dancing. some kind of dating ritual that i'm not familiar with. 
speaker2: bb's a pretty good tin man, huh?

speaker1: you're gonna come back and stay the night? 
speaker2: i dunno... all my things are back at nellie's -- the other side of town. i know what i could do, i'll go back to the house... there's still a few things i left behind ... at least i can get a change of clothes.
speaker1: i'm glad this is working out.
speaker2: you really happy?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you don't really show a great deal of exuberance.
speaker1: honey, for me... i'm a parade.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: the i.r.s... they need my furniture. they got some living room somewhere in this country that needs to be furnished.
speaker1: they're taking the furniture?
speaker2: the furniture, the whole house. they locked it up... they confiscated it.
speaker1: what do you expect? you expect to get some preferential treatment ... you're some special case? you've got to pay your taxes just like everybody else has to pay their taxes!
speaker1: how many arguments did we used to have about filing your taxes?
speaker2: we had a lot of arguments.
speaker1: there's a responsibility that you've got to have. it's a long way from high school, tilley.
speaker2: i was doing pretty good there for a while... doing pretty good. had my house, had a wife, a cadillac...

speaker1: where are you gonna sleep? 
speaker2: i'll stay at sam's for a couple of days until i get set up. what're you doing here, anyway?
speaker1: there's just a couple of things you didn't throw out of the house ... a couple of things i didn't find in the drawer.
speaker2: i don't know... i did a pretty good house cleaning number on you.
speaker1: listen, about the divorce. do you want to file, or should i file?
speaker2: i got to be frank with you, this guy is nuts.
speaker1: he told me all about it... all about how you threw eggs at him.
speaker2: he told you it was about eggs? the guy tried to break into my house. he tried to steal things from me.
speaker1: he was trying to find me. we had an argument.
speaker2: i think you'd be making a big mistake if you married him.
speaker1: it's not for you to make decisions for me.
speaker2: i think maybe i should, because i think you're being misled... i think you're confused. i think...

speaker1: i know what i'm doing. 
speaker2: nora, listen to me. i know about guys...
speaker1: i appreciate your concern, but it's not for you...
speaker2: but this guy is as bad a choice as you could make. bad choice.
speaker1: you're a good one to give advice... you're sitting on the steps, locked out of your house because you can't pay your taxes, and you're going to give me advice on life?
speaker2: i'm not giving you a divorce, and that's it. i'm looking out for your welfare. no divorce.
speaker2: it's for your own benefit, and you'll thank me for it.
speaker1: my benefit! you don't give a about me! you don't give a who i marry. the reason you don't want me to marry is because he's the one taking your wife, and you've got your own problems with him.

speaker1: you don't care about me... it's the same you're doing. that's what it always is with you, tilley. it's always you! the i.r.s. took your house... your furniture! you don't say anything about my things in the house. i've got things in the house i worked hard for, and things that belonged to my family... the headboard that was given to me by aunt josephine, it's got to be at least a hundred years old... and the hand-embroidered footstool... 
speaker2: what footstool?
speaker1: the hand-embroidered footstool over by the tv.
speaker2: i don't remember seeing that.
speaker1: it's been there forever... it was my granny's.
speaker2: it's been there forever? i've never seen it.
speaker1: you've never seen it!? you've never seen it!? you put your feet on it to watch tv... the hand-embroidered footstool.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about. i never put my feet up to watch tv.
speaker1: that's the way you are, tilley, it doesn't mean anything to you. you don't care if they take it all away. it's all you, tilley!

speaker1: thanks for the lift back, bb. 
speaker2: okay, stanley.

speaker1: you know something, stanley, i can always smell a guy who's not made of tin. 
speaker1: it's against the law to steal files. i could call and have you arrested and sent to jail, right now.

speaker1: i'll put everything back, nobody's the wiser. 
speaker2: you work for the commission, is that it?
speaker2: doesn't the commission have enough information? they got to send out guys like you to spy?
speaker1: well, we just started out, and if we had some really good hard facts of some infractions, it would give us a lot of credibility in the community.
speaker2: you know what your big problem is, stanley? you're lazy. if you want to find out stuff, then you dig... you get on the phone... you canvas... 'we're from the home improvement commission...' go find your leads... that's what we do all the time. you're just lazy, stanley. if we're doing something wrong, you should collect all your evidence. instead, you snoop around... steal files. what is this? undercover time? you think you're breaking up some big drug ring? is this the mafia you've infiltrated? all you've got here is a bunch of guys selling tin for christ sake! you want some files?

speaker1: here... here's some jobs i did. leave moe out of this... he quit the business. 
speaker1: go on, get out of here. stanley starts for the door, and turns back.
speaker2: why are you doing this?
speaker1: if it's not gonna be you, it's gonna be somebody else... and if it's not tonight, it's gonna be another time.

speaker1: maybe if i talked to him another day he'll change his mind. i mean, he's like that... one day, he's this way and another day he's that way. 
speaker2: you don't need to talk to him.
speaker1: i mean, he's probably, you know, upset about the i.r.s. taking the house and all our stuff.
speaker2: ever see a volkswagen?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you know, those little volkswagens.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: it's a car... a little car.
speaker1: what does that have to do with anything?
speaker2: i dunno... they're interesting.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's interesting.
speaker1: what's so interesting about a car?
speaker2: i dunno. it's a little thing... you know, a little thing. guy tells me they don't even have radiators... they're air-cooled.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: it's interesting... different...

speaker1: tilley and mouse. it looks weird, doesn't it? looks very weird. 
speaker2: let's hope you have some better luck with mouse.

speaker1: mr. marengay. 
speaker1: hey, tilley... mr. marengay's out here.
speaker2: can i talk to you in private, or do i have to talk to you over fourteen pool tables?

speaker1: we've got enough that's going down between the two of us, but the fact of the matter is that i love your wife, and i want to marry her. 
speaker2: i don't care who she marries, but i don't want her marrying you!
speaker1: why don't we just talk about this in a nice, rational manner.
speaker2: rational? you're going to be rational?
speaker1: we've got our problems, but let's try and isolate this particular situation.
speaker2: isolate... isolate... i like this kind of talk. what the nonsense is that?
speaker1: what are you gonna gain from this thing here?
speaker2: now let me see here... i've got to isolate that for a moment and think it over.
speaker1: nobody's going to benefit from making me mad.
speaker2: you ought to hear yourself. you know that? you ought to listen to the way you talk. you come in here, you want to take my wife ... you want to isolate this situation... you want to be rational. i've got no tolerance for you, mister. you know what i'm saying?

speaker1: what you're saying is you don't want to discuss this, am i right? 
speaker2: you like pool?
speaker1: i enjoy the game.
speaker2: why don't we play a little game of eight ball? if i lose, i consent to the divorce... if you lose, you give nora up... walk away from her.
speaker1: rack 'em.

speaker1: combination... side pocket. 
speaker1: that's four.

speaker1: yes, sir! yes, sir! 
speaker2: you make this one here, and you win.
speaker1: don't i know it... don't i know it!
speaker2: bad break.
speaker1: tough break.
speaker1: you lose.
speaker2: yeah... that puts an end to one of our differences. now, concerning you...
speaker1: yeah?

speaker1: i'm gonna beat the out of you. you want it here or do you want it outside? 
speaker2: outside.
speaker2: stay out of this... this is between the two of us.

speaker1: ... improves the insulation... 
speaker2: ... we'll have a representative in your area...
speaker3: ... danny's an example of that. danny goes into a bar, chicks lined up and down the bar. walks up to one and says, 'honey, would you like to fuck?' she'd slap him in the face. he'd move down to the next girl, say the same thing... she'd slap him. then he'd just keep moving down, going from one girl to the other. fifteen, maybe sixteen girls would tell him to get lost... to get the out of there...
speaker3: ... call him names... but he doesn't take it personal, you see ... he keeps going, and then the next girl smiles. he says, 'why don't you buy me a drink'... he scores. every time. he goes through a lot of girls, takes a lot of slaps in the face, but he never takes it personally...

speaker1: ... and he always gets what he wants. 
speaker1: hey, beeb. what happened to you? that broad beat the out of you?
speaker1: i think you must enjoy these masochistic relationships. smashes your car... punches you in the face...
speaker1: bagel, you ought to get a load of this broad beeb's messing with.
speaker2: looks a little too romantic for me.
speaker3: you know who's no longer married to who?
speaker4: well, we ought to know. there's like a million people living in baltimore. how many guesses do we get?

speaker1: cheese i have a certified letter 
speaker2: looney friends of them... the guy over there. carly the man approaches bb who ed and ethel? is standing back from the group a little.
speaker3: ed and ethel aren't that man

speaker1: looney yeah... yeah. 
speaker2: carly because ever since moe
speaker3: yeah. bb thanks for the concern, carly bagel, but i'll be all you're kidding me. right.

speaker1: we'll get to that once we've discussed wilma... they'll still be broken up... we'll get to that in a minute. 
speaker2: how do you know wilma?

speaker1: hey, wing, isn't that the putz from the commission? 
speaker2: masters? yeah.
speaker1: what the hell's he doing hanging around here?
speaker2: he wants information.
speaker1: i nailed his the other day, wing. can't lay a finger on me. i was amazing, you should have been there. i was amazing... i was respectful, courteous, but i was slipping and sliding... they couldn't touch me.

speaker1: you're gonna sell me out to the commission? wing, am i hearing this right? 
speaker2: i'm up front with you about this... i'm up front with ya, tilley. i've got my in a vice...
speaker1: is this about the money i owe you? are you just pissed? you want to get even because of the horse race? i told ya it was an accident.
speaker2: tilley, it's got nothing to do with the money.
speaker1: you're selling me out? you're gonna let them bury me? christ, wing... christ! i'm not gonna be able to work in this business? wing, this was my chosen field!
speaker2: masters was gonna take this company apart. you're the low man on the totem pole, tilley. there's a lot of guys earning a good living... no sense for it all to go up in smoke. you understand, don't you, tilley? it's just business.

speaker1: christ! 
speaker2: listen, tilley, you owe me sixteen plus from the race, and you're in for over two grand on the books, so i tell you what... i'll wipe the slate clean.
speaker2: here's a thou until you get yourself set up. i can do no better than that.
speaker1: you'd sell me out for a lousy three thousand dollars? three thousand dollars and i got to go down the toilet? christ, wing, how long the two of us been busting our together ... christ! we got some history to this relationship for christ sake. masters puts a little squeeze on you, you just sell out. three thousand dollars?!
speaker2: the bottom line is, i'm running a business, tilley. here's another deuce. i carried you a long time, tilley. i've done a sight more than a lot of other guys would have done for you... and i don't see no gratitude from you.

speaker1: i can't believe that you're up so early. this is a rare occasion. 
speaker2: yeah. i just got some business downtown i gotta take care of.
speaker1: toast will be ready in a second. coffee's on the table.
speaker2: listen, nora. i... um... i... er ... lied to you the other day.
speaker1: how so?
speaker2: i went to see tilley about the divorce.
speaker2: he was not too agreeable, and one thing led to another, and we decided to shoot some pool to settle the matter.
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: we played pool. if i won he'd give you up, if i lost i'd give you up. 
speaker2: you played pool for me?
speaker1: nora, i had no choice.
speaker2: it's the most despicable thing i've ever heard in my life. i mean, it's disgusting... guys shooting pool to determine my future.
speaker1: nora, i had no choice! hand me the toast.
speaker2: get the toast yourself.
speaker1: i'm just trying to be honest. it's been on my mind... on my conscience.
speaker1: this plate yours or mine?
speaker2: why don't you take both... maybe you can choke to death on one of them.

speaker1: how can you be so... how can you not understand how wrong that is? i can't understand that mentality! shoot pool for me! it's insane. 
speaker2: tilley is not the most rational man in this world. i tried to talk to him... he wouldn't listen. so, what are my options? you know what i'm saying? what are my options?
speaker1: i can't believe you had to shoot pool! don't you understand that ... don't you understand how crazy that is? you're sitting there... you're eating your eggs as if it's normal business in life here! like feudal lords or something you used to read about in history books.
speaker2: all right, i'm sorry.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: i lost.
speaker1: you lost?
speaker2: i blew the eight ball.
speaker1: you lost?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: what does that mean? 
speaker2: it means i'm supposed to give you up, and i'm never supposed to see you again.
speaker1: will you stop eating the eggs for a minute! how can you tell me things like this and casually eat your eggs?! what does this mean, bill?
speaker2: well, i'm supposed to give you up as part of honoring that agreement, but i'm not that honorable a guy.
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker1: why are you running off so fast here?
speaker2: i told you, i got some business downtown.
speaker2: i'll see you later.

speaker1: you gotta testify, huh? 
speaker2: you?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you got a lawyer?
speaker1: nah. i already testified once. i beat 'em before, i'll beat 'em again. you got a high-priced mouthpiece to speak for ya?
speaker2: i don't need one. i don't expect to win.
speaker1: how so?
speaker2: i gave them some pretty incriminating evidence.

speaker1: you gave them evidence? 
speaker2: the only way i could think to get out of this business.
speaker1: hey, that's good... that's good, yeah.
speaker3: the hearing for the home improvement commission is now in session.
speaker1: so... how's nora?
speaker2: she's doin' all right.
speaker4: ernest tilley?
speaker1: yeah... here. take good care of her.

speaker1: i'm not aware of the section numbers. sometimes you get a little overzealous in the heat of the sales pitch, that's all. 
speaker2: was it the heat of the sales pitch on february 23rd of this year that made you write across a contract 'this job is free'?
speaker1: as i remember, no sale was made concerning those customers.
speaker2: it fell out because a loan couldn't be arranged, but the people did agree in principle. the point that we'd like to stress, is that you misled these people. told them the job was free. then you sent in your closer with some cover story about how you had suffered a nervous breakdown, and a sale was ultimately made for twenty-three hundred and seventy- seven dollars. that is misleading and deceptive sales practice.
speaker1: it was temporary insanity. i don't know... it just came over me ... it might have been something i ate. i don't know... it was crazy, i'm the first to admit it was a crazy thing to do. believe me...

speaker1: we have other specific examples of deceptive sales practices on your behalf concerning a job carried out on december 11, 1962. you violated sections 241 and 247. and concerning a job sold to mr. and mrs. defranco on october 9, 1962, violations of sections 251 and 257 took place. 
speaker2: what are all these numbers here? i'm not familiar with all these section violations.
speaker1: it is the feeling of this commission that these infractions are severe violations of the home improvement laws, and therefore constitute misuse of the license to sell aluminum siding as approved by this state.

speaker1: it is the decision of this commission to revoke your license to sell aluminum siding... 
speaker2: he's not very happy.
speaker1: ... which will prohibit you from practicing in the state of maryland.
speaker3: are you sure? maybe the guys want to think this over.

speaker1: will mr. william babowski please come forward. 
speaker1: you have the right to have a lawyer present if you so wish.
speaker2: i do not wish.

speaker1: did you have a car parked here? 
speaker2: yeah. what about it?
speaker1: a man told me to say they took it.
speaker2: who took it?
speaker1: man said, the tax man. gave me a dollar to tell you so.
speaker2: tax man! i.r.s. how low can you get? how low can you get?
speaker2: they're lowlife. how can people come and take a man's car?... his cadillac?

speaker1: sorry about your license. 
speaker2: yeah. you in there?
speaker1: yeah. they got my license as well.
speaker2: sorry to hear it.
speaker1: what are you doing standing there?
speaker2: this is where my car used to be.
speaker1: stolen?
speaker2: i.r.s. bandits! bandits! thieving sons of bitches!
speaker1: you need a ride uptown?
speaker2: i could use one.

speaker1: some commission, huh? tell me, where's it written it the constitution that says you can't hustle for money? where's it written? it ain't like i went into an alley and hit a guy over the head with a brick and stole his money... not like i broke into somebody's house and stole his stuff. all i'm doing is selling... where's the crime in that? 
speaker2: i don't know what the world's coming to.
speaker1: you're telling me. i don't know what the world's coming to.

speaker1: nickels and dimes. you got a good point there, bb. you're right on the money with that kind of thinking. 
speaker2: gotta find a new business to get into.
speaker1: new? very hard to find something new to get into.
speaker2: maybe... maybe not.
speaker1: better put on my thinking cap... not easy to think of something new.

speaker1: believe me, we'll find something. 
speaker2: yeah... matter of time.

speaker1: you know, i hear the new cadillac's gonna be out in a couple of months. 
speaker2: you're kidding?
speaker1: yeah... they're changing the body.
speaker2: maybe i should put in my order now.
speaker1: what're you talking about? you ain't got a pot to in.
speaker2: give me the pot... i'll fill it.

