speaker1: so jimmy baldwin tells me the plot of his book, and he says to me: the writing's going well, but i just want to make sure it's not one of those problem novels. i said: jimmy, your novel's about a homosexual who's in love with a jew -- wouldn't you call that a problem? 
speaker2: susan's father had a minor heart attack, so she's writing more poems about death and sex.
speaker3: it's so tiresome.
speaker4: hmm. what rhymes with angina?
speaker5: how's your writing?
speaker1: oh, i've got a million ideas of what to write next -- i just have to choose one.
speaker5: really?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: who would i want to play me? natalie wood.
speaker6: too fat.
speaker3: audrey hepburn?
speaker6: not bad. sort of middle-class.
speaker1: when a movie is made of my life i know exactly who i want as me... marilyn monroe.

speaker1: new yorker magazine. 
speaker2: william shawn, please. adorable one? all of a sudden i know what article i'm going to write for you next.

speaker1: ...never had anything like this happen to them before. they're used to sleeping at night with the doors unlatched.... yes, we should buy stock in master locks -- all of kansas will be in the hardware store tomorrow. 
speaker1: they have no idea who the killer is. but it doesn't matter who the killer is -- what matters is who the townspeople imagine the killer is. that's what i want to write about.
speaker1: i'm gonna need some help... i'm thinking about nelle -- she can protect me...
speaker1: i want to leave tonight...

speaker1: i figured you'd missed it. 
speaker2: i'm glad you agreed to come. you're the only one i know with the qualifications to be both a research assistant and personal bodyguard. oh, nelle, you poor thing.
speaker1: off. truman. off.
speaker3: mr. truman capote, miss nelle harper lee. where would you like these, sir?
speaker2: that one up there and that one on the floor.
speaker1: what all did you bring?
speaker4: thank you greatly, sir. it's an honor to have you with us. if you don't mind my saying, your last book was even better than the first --
speaker2: you're sweet.
speaker4: just when you think they've gotten as good as they can get.
speaker2: thank you. you're very kind.
speaker3: ma'am.
speaker1: you're pathetic.
speaker1: you're pathetic.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you paid them to say that.
speaker1: you paid them to say that!
speaker2: how'd you know? how did you know?!
speaker1: "just when you think they've gotten as good as they can get."
speaker2: you think that was too much? i thought that was a good line.
speaker1: pathetic.

speaker1: mr. alvin dewey, please. 
speaker2: third floor. in what used to be the sheriff's office.

speaker1: the wife said no more smoking in the house. i told her, "fine. walter's got a couch upstairs in his apartment. i'll stay with him and dorothy till we're done here." i've got my bag and a carton of cigarettes in the car. 
speaker2: roy.
speaker3: mr. dewey. truman capote from the new yorker.
speaker3: hello.
speaker3: bergdorf's.
speaker4: sorry?
speaker3: the scarf.
speaker4: oh. nice.
speaker3: thank you. i wonder when we could arrange an interview? some time to talk.
speaker2: about what?
speaker3: we're not looking for any inside information -- i don't care one way or another if you catch whoever did this -- i'm writing an article not about the clutter killings, but how they're affecting the town, how you all are bearing up --
speaker2: i care.
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker2: i care. i care a great deal if we catch whoever did this.
speaker3: yes --
speaker2: as do a lot of folks around here.
speaker3: of course.
speaker4: new yorker?
speaker1: you have press credentials?
speaker4: what's the new yorker?
speaker1: magazine.
speaker3: magazines don't give out --
speaker1: you can come to the news conference with the rest of them. sears and roebuck.

speaker1: i'll talk facts but i won't speculate. the main fact here we need to be clear on is not one, but four people were killed. a lot of folks say herb clutter had to be the main target because he was dealt with the most brutally -- 
speaker2: had his throat cut.
speaker1: yes. we'd all like to know why. but it could've been any one of the family they were after. we just don't know --
speaker3: you've identified the murder weapon?
speaker1: wounds indicate a shotgun, close- range, but no casings were found.
speaker2: twelve-gauge, hunting --
speaker1: right.
speaker2: they were all shot in the face?
speaker1: no. nancy in the back of the head.
speaker3: is there any evidence of, i'm sorry, sexual molestation of the women?
speaker1: no.
speaker3: anything else stolen?
speaker1: kenyon's radio seems to be the only...
speaker4: the boy was sixteen?
speaker1: fifteen. nancy was sixteen.
speaker3: it's her friend that found them?
speaker1: laura kinney.
speaker3: spell that?
speaker1: i assume you're okay with the laura part. k-i-n-n-e-y. but, please, leave her be.
speaker5: there's talk of a bunch of mexicans, a whole bunch of mexicans...
speaker1: george, it's good to see you again. i do have an opinion whether this was the work of one man or a whole bunch, as you said, but it doesn't matter a whole lot whether it was mexicans or methodists or eskimos. we're going to find whoever did this. four good people from our community are dead. let's remember that. okay with you? the west kansas farm committee's offering a thousand dollar reward for information leading to an arrest. please print that. thank you all for coming.

speaker1: mr. dewey's protective of the clutters. i wonder how well he knew them... nelle glances over at him. he doesn't notice. 
speaker1: he was foxy with that old man. are you ever gonna let me drive?
speaker2: truman, you're a menace. you can barely see over the wheel.
speaker2: this make you miss alabama?
speaker1: not even a little bit.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: morning.
speaker3: hi.
speaker2: can any of you tell me where i'd find laura kinney?
speaker3: oh, um...

speaker1: is that her? with the tall boy? 
speaker2: yeah. with danny burke.
speaker1: danny burke? thank you.
speaker2: oh, quiet yourself, janice.
speaker1: truman. truman --
speaker1: these folks live their lives in a particular way. you need to consider adapting yourself to that fact.
speaker3: what --
speaker1: -- i'm gonna find out where those two kids live. maybe you'll let me do that alone?

speaker1: i think i scared a friend of yours this morning. he came looking for you while i was writing. 
speaker2: you hate my friends.
speaker1: i wouldn't say hate. so long as they don't knock on my door.
speaker2: i saw the bodies today.
speaker1: which?
speaker2: the clutters. i looked inside the coffins.
speaker1: that's horrifying.
speaker2: it comforts me -- something so horrifying it's freeing. it's a relief. normal life falls away. but, then, i was never much for normal life --
speaker1: no, you weren't.
speaker2: people here won't talk to me. they want someone like you, like nelle. me they hate.
speaker1: i can't think of a single quality i share with nelle.
speaker2: well --
speaker1: maybe manliness.
speaker2: my point exactly.
speaker1: it's why i left the midwest in the first place. i knew i could only find someone like you in new york city.

speaker1: i thought you were from the fbi with your long coat. 
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: that's why i ran off.
speaker2: i've been getting a lot of that lately.
speaker1: it's fine talking to you all. practically nobody around here wants to talk since what happened.
speaker3: folks have been through a rough patch. including you. nancy was your best friend.
speaker1: she was my best friend.
speaker3: how has danny been?
speaker1: pretty shattered. nothing terrible ever happened to him before. nancy just started wearing his ring again after this huge fight -- mr. clutter was trying to get her to end it 'cause danny's catholic.
speaker3: what were the clutters?
speaker1: methodist. danny was the last person at the house that night. that's why mr. dewey's keeps interviewing him -- they don't think he had anything to do with it -- just to see if he remembers anything unusual and all.
speaker3: people in town seem to wonder if he was involved.
speaker1: that's been real hard for danny.
speaker2: oh, it's the hardest -- when people have a notion about you and it's impossible to convince them otherwise. since i was a child folks have thought they had me pegged because of the way i look and the way i talk. they're always wrong. do you know what i mean?
speaker1: i want to show you something.
speaker2: not one person here understands her.
speaker1: maybe you'll get a better picture of nancy. and the family.
speaker3: what is this?
speaker1: it's her diary.

speaker1: "danny here tonight and we watched tv. so nice just having him sit with us. left at eleven. p.s. -- he's the only one i really love." 
speaker1: and that was that.
speaker2: the end of a life.

speaker1: "shattered." 
speaker2: "pretty shattered. nothing terrible ever happened to him before. " he pushes some pillows aside and lies down.
speaker2: i have 94 percent recall of all conversations.
speaker1: 94 percent.
speaker2: i've tested myself.
speaker1: don't you dare close your eyes on my bed.
speaker1: stand up and walk out that door. go to your room if you're gonna sleep. truman. truman.
speaker1: crap.

speaker1: what right do you have being tired? you were snoring blissfully -- 
speaker2: i don't snore --
speaker1: -- while i lay there, hating you --
speaker2: you don't hate me.
speaker1: not much. what? marie dewey?... we've got somewhere to go for thanksgiving supper.
speaker2: apparently detective foxy's wife has a better opinion of me than detective foxy.

speaker1: you came. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: thank you for having us.
speaker1: thank you. get yourselves in here. alvin! get your pants on. they're here.

speaker1: more. more. 
speaker2: alvin will hate this.
speaker1: yes, but we who know the truth will love it.
speaker2: i have to stop. i cannot believe you're from new orleans. i miss it so much.
speaker1: i only lived there for a short while but my mama was born and bred.
speaker2: you know something -- alvin pretends he doesn't know who you are, but the minute you came to town he read your books. he had one of his men pick up "breakfast at tiffany's" in kansas city 'cause it's banned from the library here.
speaker1: what did mr. dewey think?
speaker2: he liked it more than he's willing to admit.
speaker1: how very foxy.
speaker1: mama would've put in half the bottle by now.
speaker2: alright, one more shake.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: how you doing, foxy?

speaker1: i was writing the script as they were filming, all that time in italy. i'd work like mad all day long and then dash down to the bar around midnight to hand in the next day's scenes. humphrey had just about moved into the hotel bar -- 
speaker2: humphrey bogart.
speaker1: -- where he and john drank every night --
speaker2: john huston.
speaker1: -- and i mean drank, like famished water buffaloes. well -- i'd only just handed them the final scene when the bellhop told me i had a phone call. it was my stepfather, joe capote, calling to say that my mother had died. i flew home to new york -- terribly distraught -- but when i got to the apartment i could see that joe was in even worse shape than i was. he grabbed my hands and sat me down at the kitchen table, and he said to me, "talk. talk about anything, any subject in the world. don't worry whether it will interest me or not. just talk so i won't break down." and i did. he couldn't bear to be alone with his thoughts. it was too painful.
speaker2: it's been a hard couple weeks for alvin. he and herb clutter were good friends. from church.
speaker3: marie --
speaker2: oh come on, alvin. these are good people.

speaker1: who would put a pillow under the boy's head just to shoot him? why would they tuck nancy in? 
speaker2: i want to know the same thing.
speaker3: twisted notion of tenderness.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: so many of my friends would love to meet you.
speaker1: that'd be fine --
speaker3: you don't have to worry. i'm not going to write about this until everything's over.
speaker4: i'm not worried. i know what room you're in at the hotel. and i know where you live in brooklyn.

speaker1: i'd of picked them up but i haven't been myself. mind you, i make the walk out here every day, check the house, make sure the pipes don't freeze -- that sort of item. the least i can do for mr. clutter. 
speaker2: how long have you worked here?
speaker1: 1940 -- a lotta years. the wife too, cleaning the house. cooking.
speaker2: well, she's marvelous. lunch was wonderful.
speaker1: she had a hard job after what all happened. cleaning. i burned most of the rest -- mattresses -- too far of a mess. i've asked around some -- if anyone's looking for a strong hand.
speaker1: i don't think they'll be able to sell the place till they catch the ones that did it. that's what i hear anyhow.

speaker1: you're celebrating. 
speaker2: remember nelle's manuscript she sent me in new york?
speaker1: mockingbird. killing a mockingbird. you said it was good.
speaker2: and i was right. she just heard lipincott wants to publish it.
speaker1: well. that's terrific. tell her congratulations.
speaker2: congratulations. jealous.
speaker1: just promise you'll be home by christmas.
speaker2: i can't leave now jack -- i mean it was hard at first, but now i'm practically the mayor.
speaker1: alright.
speaker2: i want to come home -- i do. though if they catch whoever did this, who knows what -- i'll probably be here til next christmas.
speaker1: right. i'll let you go.
speaker2: jack, we'll go away this spring to write. maybe spain...
speaker1: alright, truman.
speaker2: bye. the poor boy misses me.
speaker3: truman.
speaker2: nelle.
speaker3: you remember when we were kids?
speaker2: i was never a kid. i was born fully formed.
speaker3: i had no idea what a homosexual was. but i knew whatever they were, you were one of 'em.
speaker4: oh. uh. oh. excuse us.

speaker1: -- girdle up -- no extra bulges -- if you're dressed right for him when he gets home, the evening should be smooth sailing. bon voyage, gals. 
speaker2: i can't believe you got this whole page -- i only read it to you once!
speaker1: i've trained myself.
speaker3: ...trained myself.
speaker1: i have 94 percent recall.
speaker3: ...94 percent recall.
speaker1: you cut that out.
speaker2: you believe that alvin?
speaker4: impressive.
speaker2: i'm sorry. he's upset. -- smoking three packs a day. two men did it. they know who. one of them used to have a cellmate who gave him up for the thousand dollar reward. they passed through kansas city last week writing bad checks -- by the time alvin's boys got up there they'd skipped out again.
speaker3: where to?
speaker2: they have no idea.

speaker1: alvin. paul. now. 
speaker1: damnit. come here.
speaker2: alvin ...
speaker1: alvin jr. get over here.
speaker3: dad, the phone.
speaker1: paul. back to the table.
speaker1: sit.
speaker3: dad?
speaker2: tell them we're at dinner, alvin.
speaker3: dad?
speaker1: not now, alvin.
speaker3: you need to call the chief of police in las vegas when you have a minute.

speaker1: ...this is kerg radio, garden city. a friendly broadcast from a friendly place. our lead story: 
speaker1: ...newsmen from six states have joined scores of kansans as they await the arrival of confessed killers perry smith and richard hickock. kbi officers have been driving the clutter family's brutal killers nonstop from...
speaker2: hey.

speaker1: truman capote. 
speaker2: dorothy sanderson. i figured you'd be left alone this morning by that hard-working husband of yours. so i have breakfast. i have news. and i have literature. my friend jack mailed me the book you wanted.
speaker1: "for the maiden of the midwest, the priestess of the plains, the queen of the kitchen: my first novel. truman."
speaker1: you're too much. go on into the living room, lemme grab that -- it's been ringing all morning.

speaker1: oh. truman. i meant in there. i... um... 
speaker1: it's the women's cell. it's hardly ever used. but they wanted to, um, separate... please. let's sit in the living room. i'll set up in the living room.
speaker1: come.
speaker2: they put you in the women's cell.
speaker3: among other indignities.
speaker2: well... she's a good cook.
speaker3: she's scared of me.
speaker2: i think so am i. a little bit.
speaker3: are you? you have any aspirin? my legs -- dorothy's in the doorway.
speaker1: um. truman? all set. truman looks at dorothy, looks back at perry.
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: his feet don't touch the floor. 
speaker2: in the matter of the state of kansas v. richard eugene hickock and perry edward smith this court has been informed by counsel -- mr. weeks -- that defendants wish to waive their right to preliminary hearing. mr. hickock, is that your wish?
speaker3: yessir. yes.
speaker1: why are they doing that?
speaker2: mr. smith.
speaker4: i ask that the waiver be effectuated.
speaker2: so noted. we're adjourned.

speaker1: mr. capote. 
speaker2: madame sanderson.
speaker1: is that for the two of us to share? or for me to eat alone while you talk to our guest?

speaker1: was it your choice to waive the hearing? 
speaker1: you still need some? give me your hand.
speaker2: i could kill you if you got too close.
speaker1: would you like some water?
speaker1: mrs. sanderson lent you my book --
speaker2: he said we'd curry favor with the judge if we waived our rights.
speaker1: who did?
speaker2: the lawyer.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: your picture's undignified. people recall first impressions.
speaker1: what's been your first impression?
speaker2: you want something.
speaker1: from you?
speaker3: truman. walter's gonna be home soon.
speaker1: i just want permission to talk. has anyone else visited?
speaker3: truman --
speaker1: will you tell me if you need anything? i can have whatever you want sent from new york. will you do that?

speaker1: william shawn. 
speaker2: gorgeous?
speaker1: truman.

speaker1: i'm writing a book. it's too much for a single article -- this town, the killers most of all -- you will be stunned by perry smith -- 
speaker2: why? what has he --
speaker1: not much yet, but i know. i can sense him. he's desperately lonely, frightened... i have questions -- are you ready?
speaker2: would it matter --
speaker1: how much more money can you send me? how quickly can you get avedon out here to take some pictures?

speaker1: perry, honey. you look terrific... 
speaker1: calm yourself down, sweetheart.
speaker1: be patient, capote. maybe later they'll send you my skin.
speaker2: i have the perfect place for it, over the hearth.

speaker1: where'd perry get the art set? 
speaker2: members of the jury. have you reached a verdict?
speaker3: yes sir.
speaker2: defendants rise.
speaker2: perry edward smith and richard eugene hickock stand accused of four counts of the crime of murder in the first degree. have you reached a unanimous verdict?
speaker3: we have, your honor.
speaker2: what is your verdict?
speaker3: guilty. on all counts.
speaker2: have you unanimously reached a sentence.
speaker3: we have, your honor.
speaker2: what is the sentence?
speaker3: death.
speaker2: perry edward smith and richard eugene hickock. you've been found guilty of four counts of murder in the first degree. you will be taken to the state penitentiary at lansing. no later than midnight, may 13 of this year, nineteen hundred and sixty, each of you will be hanged by the neck until dead. so ordered.
speaker4: alright, partner. least now we're not the only killers in kansas.

speaker1: you think he slept at all? 
speaker1: i need to see him before we go.

speaker1: they're going to transfer you up to lansing today. you'll have to make sure to put me on the visitor's list. otherwise i can't see you. 
speaker1: will you do that? i'm going to help find you a proper lawyer. you need a serious lawyer for an appeal. they took last night. i need you to get him to do the same thing -- put me on the visitor's list. will you do that, perry?
speaker1: perry.

speaker1: nelle. kudos on "kill the bird." is that it? 
speaker2: close enough. thanks.
speaker3: he hasn't written a word yet, though he says it's the nonfiction book of the decade...
speaker4: he's little, but terrifying --
speaker4: he's as short as i am. and almost as pretty. i'd be with him right now but he's being given new accommodations -- guests laugh.
speaker4: most people assume he's a monster. i don't see him that way. the book i'm writing will return him to the realm of humanity -- it's the book i was always meant to write...
speaker5: watch out. this is the start of a great love affair.
speaker2: oh yes. truman in love with truman.
speaker4: ...i was in marilyn's apartment just last week. i had to break it to her that, of the four matisses hanging on her wall, two were upside down.
speaker4: another. to answer your question, i'm following "breakfast at tiffany's" by blazing a different path -- by inventing an entirely new kind of writing: the non-fiction novel.
speaker6: you have a subject?
speaker4: on the night of november 14, two men broke into a quite farmhouse in kansas and murdered an entire family. why did they do that? it's been suggested that this subject is tawdry -- it's not worthy of literature. i disagree. two worlds exist in this country -- the quiet conservative life, and the life of those two men -- the underbelly, the criminally violent. those worlds converged that night. i spent the past three months interviewing everyone in kansas touched by that violence. i spent hours talking to the killers -- and i'll spend more. researching this work has changed my life, altered my point of view about almost everything. i think those who read it will be similarly affected. such a book can only be written by a journalist who has mastered the techniques of fiction --
speaker6: you're speaking of yourself.
speaker4: you're really very clever.

speaker1: perry's decided to appeal. he claims their attorney was incompetent -- that he never raised the issue of temporary insanity. 
speaker2: so you find them a new lawyer.
speaker1: they're facing execution in six weeks, jack. they need someone to argue whether or not that's right.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'd also like to see them alive, yes, thank you very much. i need to hear their story.
speaker1: if you met him you'd understand. it's as if no-one's ever asked him a single question about himself. he's so... damaged -- and strange -- unexplored... i don't trust this hickock fellow. perry's the only person who can describe to me what happened that night. i need to hear him say it.
speaker2: just be careful what you do to get what you want.
speaker1: i'm finding them a lawyer.
speaker2: truman. you're finding yourself a lawyer.

speaker1: we do well by our boys. showers once a week. feed em good. we'll be feeding perry smith in the infirmary soon if he don't eat. get the food in through his arm. 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: hasn't eaten in a month. but it's not his right to kill himself. it's the people's right. the people of this state. and that's who i work for, the people. you can write any of this down.
speaker2: no one told me.
speaker1: yah. won't eat.
speaker2: when can i see him?
speaker1: how about you come back thursday?
speaker2: no. that's no good. i need to see them now, then whenever i want for as long as i want.
speaker1: not how we do things here.
speaker2: i see.
speaker2: i understand what a burden unlimited visitation might be -- on this institution, and on the people who pay for it. i want to be clear that i don't expect the citizens of leavenworth county to have to shoulder that burden.
speaker2: to be dispensed as you see fit.
speaker1: i didn't know where to count your boy -- being half-indian. i did him a favor though. counted him white.
speaker2: you're a kind and generous man.

speaker1: my hero. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: thanks for your help with the lawyer.
speaker2: that's fine.
speaker1: you must be desperate for a story to come all the way out here.
speaker3: mr. capote. you're entitled to go in. you may, um, go in. if you wish.
speaker1: you want to see perry. go ahead.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: ask me, he's just trying to prove the insanity defense.

speaker1: but you're gonna wake up enough to tell me what you did with my tie. 
speaker1: it's okay. it's truman. it's your friend.

speaker1: before she had us. before she started drinking. 
speaker2: who took care of you as a child?
speaker1: orphanage. me and linda.
speaker2: that's your sister?
speaker2: we're not so different as you might think. i was abandoned repeatedly as a child. my mama'd drag me along to some new town so she could take up with another man she'd met. night after night she'd lock me in the hotel room -- mama'd turn the latch and tell the staff not to let me out no matter what. i was terrified -- i'd scream my head off -- till finally i'd collapse on the carpet next to the door and fall asleep. after years of this she just left me with relatives in alabama.
speaker1: who raised you up?
speaker2: my aunts. that's when i met nelle -- she lived next door. your mother was indian?
speaker1: cherokee.
speaker2: drinking was not a good thing for her.
speaker1: no tolerance for it.
speaker2: and your father?
speaker1: no tolerance for him either.
speaker2: what i can't decide is if you understand how fascinating you are.
speaker1: i'm sorry about your tie. they took it away from me because we're all on suicide watch. it's why the lights stay on at night.
speaker2: i hope we're past that now. you had me worried.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i don't care about the tie. it's just a pity because it looked so good on you.
speaker1: be careful of ricardo. i think he wants you all to himself.
speaker2: alright --
speaker1: but he's naturally mendacious -- not to be trusted -- if he had a hundred dollars he'd steal a stick of chewing gum.
speaker2: you wouldn't.
speaker2: i want to take your notebooks with me -- i want to read them.
speaker2: if i leave here without understanding you, the world will always see you as a monster. i don't want that -- i don't see you that way.
speaker1: i tracked my father down in alaska. i was 14. one day i said to him, "mom's dead." i could see it. a week later we got the news. she finally drunk herself to death.
speaker2: this is remarkable.
speaker1: sometimes you see a thing -- how it really is.

speaker1: do you? 
speaker2: do i what?
speaker1: hold him in esteem?
speaker2: well... he's a gold mine. i mean he's told me his entire life, and now it's all here for me to write down -- all of the history i need. his entire life in this diary. his dead mother. a brother and sister killed themselves.
speaker1: you tell him your mama did the same thing?
speaker2: i tell him everything. we've been talking our heads off the past month. sometimes, when i think how good my book can be, i can hardly breathe.
speaker1: huh.
speaker2: here's what i wanted to read to you: "if called upon to make a speech:" -- this is exactly what i was talking about -- a speech just in case he's ever recognized for an achievement: "if called upon to make a speech: i can't remember what i was going to say for the life of me. i don't think ever before have so many people been so directly responsible for my being so very, very glad. it's a wonderful moment and a rare one. thank you!" there's an exclamation point on the end of that thank you, in case you didn't catch it... where'd you go?
speaker1: christ. i guess it stopped being funny.
speaker2: i never said it was. listen to this...

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker1: you're nothing if not hard-working.
speaker2: you look good, healthy again.
speaker1: not a chance.
speaker2: i've decided on a title for my book. i think you'll like it -- very masculine. "in cold blood."
speaker1: that refers to the crime or the fact that you're still talking to the criminals?
speaker2: the former, among other things.
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: i've been wanting to ask if you'll let me look at your investigation notes.
speaker1: that lawyer you helped find for your friends got them a hearing at the kansas supreme court --
speaker2: i heard this morning.
speaker1: -- on the issue of inadequate counsel.
speaker2: alvin. do you not want me to look at your notes? you are permitted to say no.
speaker1: i'll tell you what: if those boys get off, i'm coming to brooklyn to hunt you down.
speaker1: i have to be in court at nine o'clock.
speaker1: call roy church. he'll show you what you want to see.

speaker1: hey, hey... 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: it was as much for me as for anyone. i couldn't bear the thought of losing you so soon.
speaker2: we're going to be able to use your book for our case. you'll write we never got to raise our insanity plea. you wrote how terrible the lawyer was?
speaker3: i haven't written a word yet.
speaker2: what have you been doing?
speaker3: research. waiting to talk to you.
speaker2: all right.
speaker3: i had hoped --
speaker2: what are you calling it?
speaker3: the book? i have no idea.
speaker3: if i'm going to write about you -- if i'm going to determine how to write about you -- you need to tell me about that night at the clutter house.
speaker3: perry.
speaker3: why? do you worry what i'll think?
speaker3: is that it?
speaker2: says you know elizabeth taylor.
speaker3: i know a lot of people.
speaker3: what is that you keep drawing?
speaker2: you must hate having to come to this place --
speaker3: perry, i have invitations to be in morocco, greece... i choose to be here. those people have everything, all their prayers have been answered, yet they're more desperate than ever. i prefer to be here with you.
speaker2: i was ten, i wet the bed, the nuns at the orphanage hated the smell. first month one of them found me shivering -- just trying to get through the night. the sister pulled back the covers and shined her flashlight to see what i'd did. the sheets were wet. she hit me so many times with that flashlight she broke it. that night i dreamed about the yellow bird. tall. yellow like the sun. it picked me up and it clawed the nun's eyes and it lifted me into the sky.

speaker1: i'm just missing this one piece, jack. be patient with me. 
speaker2: how long is that gonna take? why don't you try leaving him alone for a while? come to spain. you can always visit him later.
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: well, i'm off. i've got my own writing to do.
speaker1: do it in brooklyn. wait for me.
speaker2: too many people around. i'll leave the address on the kitchen table. truman, what do you do there when you're not with him? -- it must be awful.
speaker2: think about what i said. join me when you can.
speaker1: i will. i will. bye.

speaker1: i didn't see you. you... come in. where's the guard? 
speaker2: i can't. i brought you some things, but i have to fly back east.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: an hour. i'm sorry.
speaker1: you can't.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: who are you going there to see --
speaker3: capote, get it straight in your book -- we never intended on killing that family --
speaker1: i told him that.
speaker3: no premeditation --
speaker1: i told him!
speaker2: your writings are magnificent. i hope these help you do more.
speaker2: i have so much material -- from the trial, from our visits, your journals. i have to organize it all, and i have to start the process of writing. i'll visit soon. perhaps this fall. i miss you already. write me every five minutes.
speaker3: be good now.

speaker1: what. 
speaker2: truman. i was supposed to be home for dinner with my wife three hours ago -- i have not been able to tear myself away from your book. it's that good. it's not good, it's astonishing. this first half is astonishing. if the second half lives up to this it, -- it -- how much is left to do?

speaker1: i'm already well into the third part, but i -- i can't finish that till i convince perry to describe the night of the killings to me. i was planning to visit this fall, see -- 
speaker2: i think you need to talk to him now.
speaker1: and we all need to see how this ends for the final part. i can't finish the book till i know what happens. if perry and are executed it's one thing -- and if not, well --
speaker2: truman. you got your ending --
speaker1: i really don't know --
speaker2: the kansas court denied their appeal. it came over the wire on friday. you need to talk to perry now. he'll be dead by september. i'm sorry, i know how much you've come to care about him.
speaker2: truman?
speaker1: right. yes. right.
speaker2: i want to set up a reading for you in the fall, in new york. we'll build some interest, and we'll publish in the fall.

speaker1: plums. thank we have nothing in the house. 
speaker1: why aren't you working?
speaker2: i knew you couldn't be depended on to stock the kitchen.
speaker2: what would we feed our famous guest?
speaker1: oh, i completely forgot.
speaker2: plus -- i finished my novel yesterday.

speaker1: my man, my hero, my talented... my man... 
speaker2: you said that.
speaker1: you are the hardest worker, the most unsung talent i know. as nelle passes by on her way to london to sell her book which needs no selling, may a little of her success rub off on both of us.
speaker2: here, here!

speaker1: when was the last time you wrote back to him? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: what's this?
speaker1: a letter for your boyfriend i was asked to deliver.
speaker2: from perry.
speaker3: let's have it.
speaker1: "dear friend truman. where are you? read this item in a medical dictionary: "death by hanging is caused by asphyxia, by fracture of the cervical vertebrae, by laceration of the trachea." not too comforting as we lost our appeal. missing you -- alone and desirous of your presence. your amigo, perry." pause.
speaker2: mr. shawn told me about the court decision yesterday.
speaker3: i was wondering why you were in such a good mood. surely, i thought, it's not because i finished my little book.
speaker2: that's a terrible thing to say.
speaker2: i used to write him all the time. i've been so focused lately on the book.

speaker1: jack says i'm using perry, but he also thinks i fell in love with him when i was in kansas. how both of those things can be true is beyond me. 
speaker2: did you? fall in love with him. silence as they load the bags into the trunk.
speaker2: truman? --
speaker1: i don't know how to answer that... it's as if perry and i started life in the same house. one day he stood up and walked out the back door while i walked out the front. with some different choices, he's the man i might have become.
speaker2: are you kidding me?
speaker2: be nice to jack. sometimes i think he's what i like about you best.
speaker1: i'll see you at the reading in new york.
speaker2: the sixteenth.
speaker2: truman. honestly. are you going back to kansas because you care about perry or because you need information before he's killed?
speaker1: can't it be both?
speaker2: no. i don't think it can be.

speaker1: what was he in jail for? 
speaker2: they said it was not paying his taxes. but really for being an outsider -- refusing to go along.
speaker2: you don't have to read any of these if you don't want to. but i thought you'd like something decent. you're much too smart for adventure magazines.
speaker3: lock-down while lowell goes to solitary. nobody in or out. you want in or out?
speaker2: in.

speaker1: everyone says he's a genius. i don't think he's a genius. he's rich and he went to college -- like any of us would've if we got the chance. he came home for christmas and shot his parents -- 
speaker2: -- in front of the television.
speaker1: you remember the story --
speaker2: they were watching father knows best.
speaker1: i won't be sorry to see him go. always correcting my grammar.
speaker1: now -- and me -- we're next in line.
speaker2: i'm so sorry i've been away.
speaker1: it was a long time.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i wish you could come next week, when they take him out to the corner, but the whole prison shuts down.
speaker2: i have to be in new york anyway.
speaker1: how's the book going?
speaker2: very slowly.
speaker1: will you show it to me?
speaker2: i've hardly written anything.
speaker3: ready.
speaker4: keep your head high, buddy.
speaker5: alright now.
speaker4: ...or they won't be able to rope you under your fat chin.
speaker5: next!

speaker1: well... 
speaker1: what a gentleman.

speaker1: mr. capote. can i get you anything? 
speaker2: no. thank you.
speaker3: welcome new yorkers...

speaker1: thank you for coming to the first public reading, the first offering of any kind, of truman capote's new work "in cold blood." our magazine -- 
speaker2: hello. my name is truman capote.

speaker1: truman on stage reading. 
speaker2: perry smith's voice was both gentle and prim -- a voice that, though soft, manufactured each sound exactly -- ejected it like a smoke ring issuing from a parson's mouth.

speaker1: your portrait of those men was terrifying. terrifying. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: your hairpiece is terrifying.
speaker2: i was going to say the same thing!

speaker1: everyone was there. 
speaker2: tennessee loved it.
speaker1: of course he did.
speaker2: should we do more? i was terrified, but --
speaker1: no, now we get to withhold while everyone else talks. let them do the work.
speaker1: this book is going to change everything. it'll change how people see you as a writer. it'll change how people write. you'll finish by october?
speaker2: i think so. you know they're scheduled for next month?
speaker1: hanging. yes. i'll commit as many issues as it takes to publish. three. as many as it takes.
speaker2: i'm flying to kansas tomorrow. i'll get perry to talk --
speaker1: honestly, what's he got to lose?
speaker2: it really is too awful. institutionalized sadism.
speaker1: you'll be able to finish now.
speaker2: as strange as it may sound to you, i'm going to miss him.

speaker1: when did you hear? 
speaker2: two days ago.
speaker2: it's what we've been waiting for. a stay of execution to make a federal appeal.
speaker2: all thanks to you.

speaker1: kansas's had it in for me for ten years -- in prison the first time, at that trial, here. they can't corner me now. not till the u.s. government says so -- 
speaker2: perry, sit down. for a minute. i need you to talk to me...
speaker1: we've got all the time in the world to talk. about everything. i've been thinking about ricardo. you need to stop sending him those trashy books. i won't even mention the pornography. i realize he might have trouble grasping the literature you gave me, but those books only exacerbate the problem -- only 'heighten' or 'intensify' it. maybe we should start him on a program...
speaker2: perry.
speaker1: give him the simple novels first --
speaker2: perry.
speaker2: i know what exacerbate means.
speaker1: okay. i thought in case...
speaker2: there is not a word, or a sentence, or a concept, that you can illuminate for me. there is one singular reason that i keep coming here --
speaker1: truman --
speaker2: ...november 14th, 1959. three years ago. three years. that's all i want to hear from you.
speaker1: i've asked you not to --
speaker2: this is ridiculous. i'm ready. i have a plane to catch. i found your sister in tacoma. maybe she'll talk to me about something useful.
speaker1: don't go out there.
speaker1: please don't go out there.
speaker2: this is my work, perry. i'm working. when you want to tell me what i need to hear, you let me know.

speaker1: they'll play outside a while longer. 
speaker1: i don't want them to see that.
speaker2: they've never seen these pictures?
speaker1: too many questions.
speaker1: june's dead. frank shot himself. now perry's did what he did. i suppose i'm next. some ruination will visit me.
speaker2: i don't think life works that way.
speaker1: it does in this family.
speaker1: i used to love him. he was my little doll.
speaker1: he scares me now.
speaker2: when was the last time you saw him?
speaker1: ten years.
speaker2: do you think i could borrow one of those pictures?
speaker1: take the whole thing. i don't want'em anymore. just... perry doesn't know where i live. he thinks we're still in portland. please don't tell him we're not.
speaker2: alright.
speaker1: don't be taken in by my brother. he's got this sensitive side he'll show. you believe he's gentle, so easily hurt. but he'd just as soon kill you as shake your hand. i believe that.

speaker1: you want to go in? truman regards perry for a few moments, then: 
speaker2: yes
speaker3: what's the name of your book?
speaker3: what's the name of your book?
speaker2: i don't...
speaker3: what's the name of your book?
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker3: "truman capote read last night before a packed audience from his non-fiction book in cold blood." he looks at truman.
speaker3: more? "the true-crime novel tells of killers richard hickock and perry smith, who brutally murdered a kansas family three years ago."
speaker2: who sent that to you?
speaker2: who sent that to you?
speaker3: that's not your business.
speaker2: it is my business, because it's not true. the organizers of the reading needed a title. they picked one -- a sensational one, i admit -- to attract a crowd.
speaker3: they picked it.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: that's not your title.
speaker2: i haven't chosen one yet.
speaker2: how could i choose --
speaker3: you pretend to be my friend...
speaker2: how could i choose a title when you still haven't told me what happened that night? how could i? i couldn't possibly.
speaker2: i have something from your sister.
speaker2: she misses you.
speaker2: it's alright. i'll go in.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i should have told you what they made me call the book. i couldn't pretend to be your friend. the truth is, i can't help wanting to be. you don't have to tell me anything if you don't want to.
speaker3: look at my belly.
speaker3: there must be something wrong with us. to do what we did.
speaker3: we heard there was ten thousand dollars in that house. once we'd tied up everybody and searched all over, i knew the guy who told us about it was wrong. there wasn't any money. but wouldn't believe it. he went tearing through the house again, banging on the walls, looking for a safe. he said when he was done, he was going to come up to nancy's room and have his way with her. i wouldn't allow it. i told him that. i sat with nancy.

speaker1: it was nice in there. 
speaker1: came to get me and we turned out the lights and went down to the basement, where we had mr. clutter and the boy. kept saying "no witnesses." i figured if i just waited him out he'd give up and leave them tied up there. we'd drive all night, they'd never find us. mr. clutter's wrists were tied to a pipe over his head. he looked like he was hurt, so i cut him down.

speaker1: then we drove off. 
speaker1: what do you think of me now?
speaker2: added up, how much money did you get from the clutters?
speaker1: between forty and fifty dollars.

speaker1: jack. 
speaker2: title up: "one year later"

speaker1: mr. shawn, i... i've spent four years of my life on this book... they got a stay of execution yesterday... another, yes.... 
speaker1: supreme court....
speaker1: ...it's harrowing -- all i want is to write the ending and there's no end in sight... no. no, i haven't been drinking again...

speaker1: i don't know how you can eat that. perhaps if you weren't drinking so much you wouldn't have to. 
speaker1: "dear friend truman. haven't heard from you in such a long while. please help find new lawyer. if not, will have to write supreme court brief himself. our last appeal. what a pair of wretched creatures. please help. your amigo? perry." pause. jack looks at truman.
speaker1: your amigo.
speaker2: put it with the others.

speaker1: you tried? 
speaker1: you need to get ready.

speaker1: nelle. 
speaker2: i thought i'd find you here.
speaker1: please, another.
speaker2: how are you?
speaker1: terrible.
speaker2: i'm sorry to hear that.
speaker1: well. it's torture. torture... ...what they're doing to me.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: now the supreme court. can you believe it? if they win this appeal i will have a complete nervous breakdown. i may never recover. just pray things turn my way.
speaker2: it must be hard.
speaker1: it's torture. they're torturing me.
speaker2: i see.
speaker2: and how'd you like the movie, truman.
speaker1: i frankly don't know what the fuss is about.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: mr. capote?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: i have a call from mr. perry smith in the kansas correctional system. will you accept charges?
speaker2: mr. truman capote?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: will you accept charges?
speaker1: oh. uh... yes.
speaker2: you'll accept charges?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: mr. smith, you're on the line.
speaker3: hello.
speaker3: hello? i can't -- this doesn't seem -- operator, i don't think you put me --
speaker1: i'm here.
speaker3: truman.
speaker1: hello, perry.
speaker3: they let me make a couple phone calls before i go down to holding... you heard the supreme court rejected the appeal.
speaker1: i didn't... i hadn't heard that.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker3: yeah. they let me make two phone calls.
speaker3: we've got a date set for the warehouse, and me. two weeks and... finito. april 14.
speaker3: will you visit me? truman. will you come visit?
speaker1: i don't know if i can. i'll try. i don't know if i can.
speaker4: time, smith. hang it up.
speaker3: please visit me, truman. just...
speaker4: time. smith.

speaker1: perry. 
speaker1: you're allowed three names of people you'd like to witness tomorrow. if there's anybody you want, tell me now.
speaker2: truman capote.
speaker1: anybody else?

speaker1: thank you. you sent the telegram to his hotel? 
speaker2: hours ago.
speaker1: may i make a phone call?

speaker1: that's him again. 
speaker1: we've never even met. it is utterly inappropriate for me to be talking to him.
speaker1: yes... i'm sorry, he's out, gone out... i'm not sure when...

speaker1: you got a telex. 
speaker1: "perry. unable to visit today because not permitted. always your friend, truman." that's it.
speaker2: it's not true, is it?

speaker1: he won't look at it. 
speaker2: would you put him on please?
speaker1: he won't talk.
speaker1: it's nelle.
speaker2: truman.

speaker1: "miss nelle harper lee and truman capote: sorry that truman was unable to make it here at the prison for a brief word prior to necktie party... 
speaker1: ...whatever his reason for not showing up, i want him to know that i cannot condemn him for it and understand...
speaker1: ...not much time left but want you both to know that i've been sincerely grateful for your friendship through the years and everything else...

speaker1: i didn't think i'd be seeing you again. you can visit for a few minutes. 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: come with me.
speaker2: truman. no.
speaker1: five minutes.
speaker4: he returns. long time.
speaker3: i don't know what you must think of me.
speaker4: you haven't been foremost on my mind lately. as you can imagine.
speaker5: you got the letter?
speaker3: yes.
speaker5: it's true. i mean i understand why you didn't want to come. i wouldn't be here either if i didn't have to.
speaker4: you got that right.
speaker5: you know ricardo donated his eyes to science? next week, some blind man will be seeing what used to see.
speaker4: he'd be better off the way he was. what i've seen hasn't been so nice to look at -- but i guess it's better than nothing. they came around with a form. hey. you'll be walking down the street one day in denver, wherever -- and suddenly these eyes will be staring at you. wouldn't that be something?
speaker3: it would be.
speaker1: time.
speaker5: you'll be watching?
speaker3: i don't know. do you want me to?
speaker5: i'd like to have a friend there.
speaker3: okay. then i will.
speaker5: it's alright.
speaker3: i did everything i could.
speaker5: okay.
speaker3: i truly did.
speaker5: i know.
speaker3: goodbye, perry.
speaker5: you're not rid of me yet. i'll see you in a few minutes.

speaker1: nice to see you. 
speaker2: perry edward smith. "for the crime of murder in the first degree, by order of the court of finney county and the supreme court of the sovereign state of kansas, you are sentenced to hang until you die." you can say something if you want.
speaker1: is there anybody from the family here?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well. tell them... i can't remember what i was going to say for the life of me... he stops. several moments.
speaker3: though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death, i will fear no evil, for thou art with me.
speaker3: thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.
speaker3: thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. thou annointest my head with oil.
speaker3: my cup runneth over.

speaker1: someday i'll tell you about it. for the moment, i'm too shattered. 
speaker2: they're dead, truman. you're alive.
speaker1: it was a terrible experience and i will never get over it. there wasn't anything i could have done to save them.
speaker2: maybe not.
speaker2: but the fact is, you didn't want to.

speaker1: it came to the hotel this morning. i told them i'd give it to you. 
speaker2: did we not know we were to die, we would be children. by knowing it, we are given the opportunity to mature in spirit...
speaker2: some take that opportunity. i hope i have...
speaker2: life is only the father of wisdom. death is the mother.
speaker3: title up:

