speaker1: leaving section fourteen for section fifteen. 
speaker2: project parabolic course to avoid entering neutral zone.
speaker1: aye, captain.
speaker3: captain... i'm getting something on the distress channel. minimal signal... but something...
speaker2: can you amplify?
speaker3: i'm trying...
speaker1: course change projected.
speaker3: it's an emergency distress call!
speaker2: on speakers!
speaker4: imperative! imperative! this is the kobayashi maru -- nineteen periods out of altair six. we have struck a gravitic mine and have lost all power... our hull is... ... and many casualties.
speaker3: this is the starship enterprise. your message is breaking up. give your coordinates. repeat --
speaker4: enterprise, our position is gamma hydra, section ten...
speaker2: in the neutral zone.
speaker4: hull penetrated, life support systems failing. can you assist us, enterprise? can you...
speaker2: data on kobayashi maru! tactical!
speaker5: subject vessel is third class neutronic fuel carrier, crew of eighty-one, three hundred passengers.
speaker2: mr. sulu, plot an intercept course.
speaker1: may i remind the captain that if a starship enters the zone --
speaker2: i'm aware of my responsibilities, mister.
speaker1: ... now entering the neutral zone...

speaker1: warning. we have entered the neutral zone... warning... 
speaker2: estimating two minutes to intercept.
speaker3: stand by transporter room, ready to beam survivors, aboard.
speaker4: captain, i've lost their signal!
speaker1: alert. sensors indicate three klingon cruisers, bearing 316, mark 4, closing fast.
speaker3: visual!
speaker3: battle stations! activate shields!
speaker2: shields activated!
speaker3: inform the klingons we are on a rescue mission...
speaker4: they're jamming all frequencies, captain --
speaker1: klingons on attack course and closing.
speaker3: we're over our heads. mr. sulu, get us out of here.
speaker2: i'll try, captain.
speaker1: klingon cruisers approaching, bearing 090, mark 20.
speaker3: visual!
speaker3: evasive action!
speaker3: engineering! damage report!
speaker5: main energizer hit, captain!
speaker3: engage auxiliary power. prepare to return fire!
speaker6: shields collapsing, captain!
speaker5: captain, we're losing auxiliary power!
speaker3: fire all phasers...!
speaker7: no power to the weapons system, sir.
speaker5: captain, it's no use. we're dead in space.
speaker3: activate escape pods. send out the log buoy... all hands abandon ship.
speaker8: all right, open her up.

speaker1: any suggestions, admiral? 
speaker2: prayer, mr. saavik. the klingons do not take prisoners. captain.
speaker3: trainees to the briefing room.
speaker2: physician, heal thyself.
speaker4: that's all you have to say?
speaker2: i'm not a drama critic.
speaker2: well, mr. saavik, are you going to stay with the sinking ship?
speaker1: permission to speak candidly, sir?
speaker2: very well.
speaker1: i don't believe this was a fair test of my command capabilities.
speaker2: and why not?
speaker1: because... there was no way to win.
speaker2: a no-win situation is a possibility every commander may face. has that never occurred to you?
speaker1: ... no, sir. it has not.
speaker2: how we deal with death is at least as important as how we deal with life, wouldn't you say?
speaker1: as i indicated, admiral, that thought had not occurred to me.
speaker2: then you have something new to think about. carry on.
speaker4: wouldn't it be easier to put an experienced crew back on the ship?
speaker2: they'll learn. galloping about the cosmos is a game for the young, doctor.
speaker5: what is that supposed to mean?

speaker1: aren't you dead? 
speaker1: i assume you are loitering here to learn what efficiency rating i plan to give your cadets.
speaker2: i am understandably curious.
speaker1: they destroyed the simulator room and you with it.
speaker2: the
speaker2: yours was not a solution which would have occurred to a vulcan mentality.
speaker1: so you said at the time. speaking of which, your protâ‚gâ‚'s first rare -- a trifle emotional --
speaker2: she's half romulan, jim. the admixture makes her more volatile than -- me, for example.
speaker1: than you. yes, i see that. by the way, thank you for this.
speaker2: i know of your fondness for antiques.
speaker1: 'it was the best of times, it was the worst of times...' message, spock?
speaker2: none of which i am consciously aware -- except, of course, happy birthday -- surely the best of times.
speaker1: hrummm... and where are you off to, now?
speaker2: the enterprise. i must check in before your inspection. and you?
speaker1: home.
speaker2: something oppresses you.
speaker1: something.

speaker1: standard orbit, mr. beach. 
speaker2: standard orbit, sir.
speaker1: any change in surface scan?
speaker2: negative. limited atmosphere, dominated by craylon gas, sand and high velocity winds. incapable of supporting life forms.
speaker3: we've picked up a minor energy flux reading on one dyno scanner.
speaker1: are you sure? maybe the scanner's out of adjustment --
speaker3: i suppose it
speaker3: you know what she'll say...

speaker1: it might only be a particle of preanimate matter... 
speaker2: then again it might not. you boys have to be clear on this: there can't be so much as a microbe or the show's off. why don't you have a look? if it is something that can be moved...
speaker1: you bet, doctor. we're on our way!

speaker1: how can you let them pull that stuff on you? they're just lazy. 
speaker2: and bored. i know. but maybe it is something they can...
speaker1: come on, mother, that's just the military mentality. never put off tomorrow what you can put off today.
speaker2: i know, i know...
speaker1: well, don't have kittens. genesis is going to work. they'll remember you in a wreath with newton, einstein, surak...
speaker2: thanks a lot. no respect from my offspring --
speaker1: par for the course... you teaming up with me for bridge after dinner?
speaker2: maybe...
speaker1: every time we have dealings with starfleet, i get nervous. we're dealing with something that could be perverted into a dreadful weapon. remember that overgrown boy scout you used to hang out with? that's exactly the --
speaker2: listen, kiddo, jim kirk was many things, but he was never a boy scout...

speaker1: come. 
speaker1: bless me, doctor; and what beams you into this neck of the woods?
speaker2: 'beware romulans bearing gifts.' happy birthday...
speaker1: romulan ale! bones, you know this stuff is illegal --
speaker2: i only use it for medicinal purposes. don't be a pring...
speaker1: twenty-two, eighty-three...
speaker2: takes the stuff a while to ferment. gimme.
speaker2: now open the other one.
speaker1: i'm almost afraid to. what did you bring me, contraband klingon --
speaker2: more antiques for your collection -- cheers!
speaker1: cheers. bones, these are... charming.
speaker2: four hundred years old. you don't find many with the lens still intact.
speaker1: uh -- what are they?
speaker2: for your eyes. for most patients of your age, i generally administer retlax five to restore flexibility of the lens.
speaker1: but i'm allergic to retlax.
speaker2: exactly. happy birthday.
speaker2: slide them down your nose. now look at me over the top. and you read printed matter through the bottom.
speaker1: amazing! i don't know what to say --
speaker2: say thank you.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: it, jim, what the hell's the matter? other people have birthdays.
speaker1: bones, i don't want to be lectured.
speaker2: what do you want? it, why isn't there a girl here? you know this has nothing to do with age. this is about you flying a computer console when you wanna be out hopping galaxies.
speaker1: spare me your notions of poetry, please. we all have our assigned duties and...
speaker2: bull. you're hiding -- hiding behind the rules and regulations --
speaker1: and who am i hiding from?
speaker2: from yourself, admiral.
speaker1: don't mince words, bones; tell me what you really think.
speaker2: i'm your doctor and i'm your friend, jim. get back your command. get it back before you really do grow old. before you turn into part of this collection.

speaker1: are you sure these are the coordinates? 
speaker2: captain, this is the garden spot of ceti alpha vi --
speaker1: i can hardly see --

speaker1: they look like cargo carriers... 
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: a face! i saw -- it was like a child -- he points. the porthole is empty.
speaker1: you're crazy -- !
speaker2: i saw it -- !
speaker1: there's an air-lock.

speaker1: there's breathable atmosphere in here. 
speaker2: i told you! i told you i saw a --
speaker1: ssssh!

speaker1: captain, we've got to get out of here -- 
speaker1: never mind! hurry!

speaker1: try again. 
speaker2: starship reliant to captain terrell ... this is lieutenant kyle. will you please respond, captain... captain terrell, respond please.
speaker1: let's give them a little more time.

speaker1: khan! 
speaker2: i don't know you. but you. i never forget a face. mister chekov, isn't it? i never thought to see your face again.
speaker3: chekov, who is this man?
speaker1: a criminal, captain -- a product of the late 20th century genetic engineering --
speaker3: what do you want with us? i demand --
speaker2: you are in a position to demand nothing, sir. i, on the other hand, am in a position to grant nothing. what you see is all that remains of the ship's company and the crew of the
speaker2: save your strength, captain, these people have sworn to live and die at my command two hundred years before you were born. do you mean he... ... never told you the tale? to amuse you, captain? never told you how the
speaker2: admiral? he didn't tell you how

speaker1: and i'll wager he never told you about his shipmate, the beautiful and courageous lieutenant mcgiver, who gave up everything to join me in exile. out of love. and see how 
speaker1: you didn't expect to find me. you thought this was ceti alpha vi. why are you here?

speaker1: why? 
speaker1: no matter.
speaker1: you will soon tell me willingly enough. he goes over to the tank and dips a kind of strainer in, pulling out two ceti eels -- wriggling items --
speaker1: let me introduce you to ceti alpha v's only remaining indigenous life form; what do you think? they've killed twenty of my people, including my beloved wife. oh, not all at once and not instantly, to be sure. their young enter through the ears and wrap themselves around the cerebral cortex. this has the effect of rendering the victim

speaker1: there is some pain at first, i am told, and then the effects are quite benign -- until the end. that was what i learned from watching my wife. 
speaker1: that's better! now: tell me why you are here -- and tell me where i may find james kirk.

speaker1: captain terrell. captain terrell... this is reliant; please respond. 
speaker2: mr. kyle, muster a landing party with full arms. alert the transporter room. we're beaming down.
speaker3: reliant, this is terrell. respond please.
speaker2: this is reliant. clark, are you all right?
speaker3: everything's fine, commander. i'll explain when i see you. oh, by the way, we're bringing several guests aboard. prepare to beam up on my next signal. terrell out.
speaker1: guests?
speaker2: maybe we are transplanting something.

speaker1: enterprise, this is admiral kirk's party on final approach. 
speaker2: enterprise welcomes you. prepare for docking.
speaker3: i really must thank you.
speaker1: i am delighted; any chance to go aboard enterprise, however briefly, is always an excuse for nostalgia.
speaker3: i cut your new orders personally. by the end of the month, you'll have your first command: uss excelsior.
speaker1: thank you, sir. i've looked forward to this for a long time.
speaker3: you've earned it. but i'm still grateful to have you at the helm for three weeks. i don't believe these kids can steer.

speaker1: docking procedure complete. 
speaker2: prepare for admiral's inspection.
speaker2: open the air lock.
speaker3: permission to come aboard, captain?
speaker2: welcome aboard, admiral. i believe you know my trainee crew. certainly they have come to know you.
speaker3: yes, we've been through death and life together.
speaker3: mr. scott, you old space dog. you're well?
speaker4: i had me a wee bout -- but dr. mccoy pulled me through.
speaker3: oh? a wee bout of what, mr. scott?
speaker5: shore leave, admiral.
speaker3: ah.
speaker3: and who is this?
speaker6: midshipman first class peter preston, engineers mate, sir.
speaker3: your first training voyage, mr.
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker3: i see. well, shall we start with the engine room?
speaker4: i believe you'll find all in order --
speaker2: we'll see you on the bridge, admiral.
speaker3: very good, mr. spock.

speaker1: he's not what i expected, sir. 
speaker2: what did you expect, lieutenant?
speaker1: he's very human.
speaker2: we can't all be perfect, saavik. you must control your prejudices and remember that as a vulcan as well as a romulan you are forever a stranger in an alien land. around you are humans, and as a member of the starfleet you are unlikely ever to escape their presence or their influence. you must learn to tolerance in addition to all else i have taught you. tolerance is logical.
speaker1: as always, my mentor. company dismiss.

speaker1: i believe you'll find everything shipshape, admiral. 
speaker2: oh do you? have you any idea, midshipman preston, how many times i've had to listen to mr. scott on the comm, telling me his troubles? have you any idea the ribbing i've had to endure in the officers' mess to the effect that the enterprise is a flying death trap?
speaker1: if the admiral can't see the facts for himself, then, with all due respect, he's as blind as a tiberion bat. sir.
speaker2: midshipman, you're a tiger.
speaker3: my sister's youngest, admiral.
speaker2: every young boy's fancy. i seem to remember it myself. very well. mr. scott, are your engines capable of handling a minor training cruise?
speaker3: give the word, admiral.
speaker2: mr. scott, the word is given.
speaker3: aye, sir.
speaker4: what about the rest of the inspection, admiral?
speaker2: the inspection will continue once we're underway, doctor.

speaker1: this is starfleet operations. 
speaker2: admiral on the bridge!
speaker3: very well, mr. saavik, clear all moorings.
speaker4: aye, sir.

speaker1: all moorings are clear, captain. 
speaker2: thank you, mr. saavik.
speaker2: lieutenant, how many times have you piloted a starship out of spacedock?
speaker1: never, sir.
speaker2: take her out, mr. saavik.
speaker1: aye, sir.
speaker2: there's a first time for everything, admiral.
speaker3: to be sure, captain.
speaker1: aft thrusters, mr. sulu.
speaker4: aft thrusters, sir.

speaker1: ahead one quarter impulse power. 
speaker2: would you like a tranquilizer?
speaker3: ahead one quarter impulse power.

speaker1: we are clear and free to navigate. 
speaker2: course heading, captain?
speaker3: captain's discretion.
speaker4: mr. sulu, you may follow your nose.

speaker1: steady on course. all systems normal. 
speaker2: it's not much different from enterprise. when i was a guest aboard her some years ago, captain kirk kindly allowed me to memorize her technical manuals. and now, mr. chekov, let us review: you say you have no details of project 'genesis' ?
speaker3: beyond what i told you, sir, it is classified information.
speaker2: umm. and would admiral kirk have access to such information?
speaker3: i would think so, sir. he's on the fleet general staff.
speaker2: then to whom do you report directly regarding genesis?
speaker3: to doctor marcus, the civilian director of the experiments on space laboratory regula i.
speaker2: i see. helmsman?
speaker4: aye, sir.
speaker1: may i speak? we're all with you, sir, but consider: we are free, we have a ship and the means to go where we will. we have escaped permanent exile on ceti alpha v. you have proved your superior intellect and defeated the plans of admiral kirk. you do not need to defeat him again.
speaker2: he tasks me -- and i'll have him. i'll chase him round the moons of nibia and round the antares maelstrom and round perdition's flames before i give him up. prepare to alter course -- for space station regula i.

speaker1: does that about do it? 
speaker2: i don't think there's another piece of information we could squeeze into the memory banks. next time, we'll design a bigger one.
speaker1: who -- jedda at the comm console overlaps.
speaker3: comm-pic coming in on hyperchannel ... it's reliant.
speaker2: on the screen, please, jedda.
speaker4: ... come in, please. this is reliant calling regula i. repeat. this is uss reliant --
speaker2: commander, we are receiving. this is regula i. go ahead.
speaker4: dr. marcus... good. we're en route to you and should be there in three days.
speaker2: en route? why? we weren't expecting you for another three months. has something happened?
speaker2: i still don't under --
speaker4: we have received new orders. upon our arrival at regula i, all materials of project genesis will be transferred to this ship for immediate testing at ceti alpha vi.
speaker2: the order comes from starfleet command, dr. marcus, direct from the general staff.
speaker2: but genesis is a civilian project, under my control --
speaker4: i have my orders.
speaker1: pin him down, mother! who gave the orders!?
speaker4: the orders come from admiral james t. kirk.
speaker1: i knew it! i knew it! all along the military has wanted to get their hands on this --
speaker2: this is completely improper, commander chekov. i have no intention of allowing reliant or any other unauthorized personnel access to our work or materials.
speaker4: i'm sorry you feel that way, doctor. admiral kirk's orders are confirmed. please prepare to deliver genesis to us upon our arrival. reliant out.
speaker2: commander chekov -- !

speaker1: well done, commander. 
speaker2: you realize, sir, that they will attempt to contact admiral kirk and confirm the order.
speaker3: will you please be quiet! we must have order here. this has to be some sort of mistake.
speaker4: mistake? we're all alone here. they waited until everyone was on shift-leave to do this. reliant is supposed to be at our disposal, not vice-versa.
speaker5: it seems clear that starfleet never intended that --
speaker3: i know, but --
speaker4: i've tried to warn you. scientists are always pawns of the military --
speaker3: starfleet has kept the peace for a hundred years, i cannot and will not subscribe to your interpretation of this event.
speaker6: you may be right, doctor, but what about reliant? she's on her way.
speaker3: get your gear together where it's handy.
speaker7: where are we going?
speaker3: that's for us to know and reliant to find out. we have only three days. let's not waste time.

speaker1: hold please -- ! 
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker3: lieutenant, are you wearing your hair differently?
speaker2: it is still regulation, admiral.
speaker2: may i speak, sir?
speaker3: lieutenant, self-expression does not seem to be one of your problems.
speaker2: i wish to thank you for the high efficiency rating.
speaker3: you earned it.
speaker2: i did not think so.
speaker3: you're bothered by your performance on the
speaker3: there is no correct resolution.
speaker2: may i ask how
speaker3: that was a little joke.
speaker2: humor... that is a difficult concept ... it is not logical...
speaker3: we learn by doing, lieutenant.
speaker3: you want my advice?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: take the test again.
speaker4: who's been holding up the elevator?
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker4: has she changed her hairstyle?
speaker4: wonderful stuff, that romulan ale --
speaker5: admiral kirk --
speaker3: kirk here.
speaker5: i have an urgent commpic from space lab regula i for the admiral. dr.
speaker3: in my quarters, uhura.
speaker5: yes, sir.
speaker4: it never rains but when it pours --
speaker3: as a physician you of all people should appreciate the danger of re-opening old wounds.
speaker4: sorry.

speaker1: uhura. can't you augment? 
speaker2: i'm trying, sir. stand by...
speaker3: jim... read me? can you read me?
speaker1: message breaking up, carol. what's wrong? what's wrong?
speaker3: ... can't read you... repeat...
speaker1: repeat... what's wrong? what's wrong?
speaker3: ... taking genesis away from us...
speaker1: taking genesis? who? who is taking genesis?
speaker3: ... see you but can't hear. did you... order...?
speaker1: what order? who's taking genesis?
speaker3: ... please help us, jim... won't let them have... without proper...
speaker1: carol!
speaker3: jim please --
speaker1: uhura! what's happening? it...
speaker4: transmission jammed at the source, sir.
speaker1: alert starfleet headquarters. i want to talk with starfleet command.

speaker1: stop engines. 
speaker2: stop engines. they look wonderingly. kirk takes a breath --
speaker1: an emergency situation has arisen. by order of starfleet command, as of now, 1800 hours, i am assuming command of this vessel. duty officer so note in the ship's log. plot a new course: for space laboratory regula i. mr. scott?
speaker3: aye, sir.
speaker1: we'll be going to warp speed --
speaker3: aye, sir --
speaker2: course plotted for regula i, admiral...
speaker1: engage warp engines --
speaker4: prepare for warp speed.
speaker2: ready, sir.
speaker1: mr. sulu, go to warp 5.

speaker1: we've got a problem. 
speaker1: something may be wrong at regula i. we've been ordered to investigate.
speaker2: regula i is a scientific research laboratory, if memory serves...
speaker1: i told starfleet all we had was a boatload of children but we're the only ship in the quadrant. spock: those cadets of yours -- how good are they? how will they respond under real pressure?
speaker2: like all living beings, admiral each according to his gifts. the ship is yours.
speaker1: that won't be necessary: just take me to regula i.
speaker2: excuse my presumption, but i do not agree. as a teacher on a training mission, i am content to command a starship. if we are to go on actual duty, it is clear that the senior officer aboard must assume command.
speaker1: but it may be nothing; garbled communications. why don't you...
speaker2: you proceed from a false assumption. i am a vulcan. i have no ego to bruise.
speaker1: you are going to remind me that logic alone dictates your actions.
speaker2: i was going to remind you of nothing, least of all that which you know well. your mistake, if i may be so bold, was promotion. commanding a starship is your first best destiny. anything else is a waste of material.
speaker1: i would not presume to debate you.
speaker2: that is wise. in any case, were i to invoke logic, logic clearly dictates that the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.
speaker1: or the one.
speaker2: you are my superior officer. you are also my friend. i have been and always shall be yours.
speaker1: will you accompany me to the bridge?
speaker2: i'd best talk with mr. scott, first so that he may, in his own words, explain the situation to his cadets.

speaker1: ... again, this is enterprise calling space lab regula i. come in, please. dr. marcus. please respond, please -- it's no use; no response from regula i. 
speaker2: but no longer jammed?
speaker1: no, sir. no nothing.
speaker2: there are two possibilities, sir they are unwilling to respond, they are unable to respond.
speaker3: how far?
speaker2: twelve hours and forty-three minutes, present speed.
speaker3: give up genesis, she said. what in name does that mean? give it up to whom?
speaker2: it might help my analysis if i knew what genesis was.
speaker3: uhura, ask dr. mccoy to join us in my quarters. mr. saavik, take the con.

speaker1: i've got the sick bay ready. will someone please tell me what is going on? 
speaker2: computer. request security procedure and access to project genesis summary.
speaker3: identify for retina scan.
speaker2: kirk, admiral james t., starfleet general staff. security class 1.
speaker2: summary, please.

speaker1: carol marcus -- 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: fascinating. 
speaker2: wait --
speaker3: stage one of our experiments was conducted in the labora- tory. stage two of the series will be attempted in a lifeless underground; stage three will involve the process on a plane- tary scale. what follows is a computer projected simulation of stage three. please watch closely.

speaker1: when we consider the problems of population and food supply, the usefulness of this process begins to become clear. this concludes this demonstration tape. thank you for your attention. the genesis team eagerly awaits the decision of the federation regarding the next phase of our work. the tape becomes snowy and blinks off. 
speaker2: it literally is genesis...
speaker3: the power of creation --
speaker2: have they proceeded with their experiments?
speaker3: the tape was made a year ago. i can only assume they've reached phase two by now --
speaker4: but dear lord, are we intelligent enough to -- suppose, this thing were used where life already exists?
speaker2: it would destroy such life in favor of its new matrix --
speaker4: it's new -- have you any idea what you're saying?
speaker2: i was not attempting to evaluate its moral implications, doctor. as a matter of cosmic history, it has always been easier to destroy than to create --
speaker4: not anymore! now you can do both at the same time! according to myth, the earth was created in six days. watch out: here comes genesis; we'll do it for you in six minutes --
speaker2: i don't dispute that in the wrong hands --
speaker4: would you like to tell me whose are the
speaker2: really, dr. mccoy; you cannot ban the acquisition of knowledge because you distrust the moral implications of what you learn.
speaker4: logic??
speaker3: what do you make of her?
speaker5: it's one of ours, admiral... it's reliant.
speaker2: what's she doing here?
speaker3: chekov's on reliant, isn't he?

speaker1: she's not responding... 
speaker2: try the emergency channels...
speaker1: enterprise to reliant. come in, reliant.
speaker2: picture, mr. saavik.

speaker1: attempt visual communication. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker3: is it possible their comm system has failed -- ?
speaker1: it would explain a great many things --

speaker1: slow to one-half impulse power. 
speaker2: slowing to one-half impulse.
speaker3: they're requesting visual communications, sir.
speaker1: let them eat static.
speaker3: they're still running with shields down.
speaker1: of course. we're one big happy fleet. ah, kirk, my old friend, do you know the klingon proverb that tells us revenge is a dish that is best served cold? it is very cold in space.

speaker1: reliant in our section this quadrant, sir, and slowing -- 
speaker2: visual.
speaker3: sir, may i quote general order 12: 'on the approach of any vessel, when communications have not been est --
speaker4: lieutenant, the admiral is aware of the regulations.
speaker3: aye, sir.
speaker2: this is peculiar. yellow alert.
speaker3: energize defense fields.
speaker5: i'm getting a voice message... wait ... short range band. they say their chambers coil is shorting their comm system.
speaker2: spock?
speaker4: scanning...

speaker1: they still haven't raised their shields. 
speaker2: careful: not all at once.

speaker1: their coil emissions are normal... wait: their shields are going up. 
speaker2: raise shields! energize phasers, stand by to --

speaker1: mr. sulu... the shields! 
speaker2: trying, sir!
speaker3: medical alert: engine room.
speaker2: i can't get power, sir!
speaker1: scotty!
speaker1: uhura, turn off those channels!!
speaker4: mr. scott on discrete.
speaker1: scotty, let's have it.

speaker1: they knew just where to hit us. 
speaker2: who? who knew just where to hit us? and
speaker2: visual! mr. sulu, divert everything to the phasers --
speaker1: too late --
speaker2: hang on!

speaker1: scotty -- what's left? 
speaker2: just the batteries, sir. i can have auxiliary power in a few minutes --
speaker1: we don't have minutes. can you give me phaser power?
speaker2: a few shots, sir.
speaker3: not enough against their shields.
speaker1: who the
speaker1: on screen
speaker4: admiral --
speaker1: do it, while we have time.
speaker1: khan!
speaker5: who?
speaker6: you still remember, admiral. i cannot help but be touched. of course, i remember you.
speaker1: what is the meaning of this attack?
speaker6: surely i have made my meaning plain. i mean to avenge myself upon you, admiral. i've deprived your ship of power and when i swing round i mean to deprive you of your life --

speaker1: -- but i wanted you to know first who it was who had beaten you: i, khan noonian singh, the eagle you attempted to cage forever. 
speaker2: khan, listen to me -- if its me you want, i'll have myself beamed aboard.
speaker1: that is a most intriguing offer. typical, i must say of your sterling character. let me think.

speaker1: i make you a counter-proposal, i will agree to your terms, if in addition to yourself, you turn over to me all data and material regarding the project called genesis. 
speaker2: genesis, what's that?
speaker1: don't play with me, kirk, my hand is on the phaser control --
speaker2: give me some time to recall the data on our computers --
speaker1: i give you sixty seconds, admiral.
speaker3: admiral, you can't give him genesis...
speaker2: at least we know he hasn't got it. just keep nodding as though i'm giving orders. saavik, punch up the data charts of reliant's command console -- hurry...
speaker4: reliant's command...

speaker1: the prefix code? 
speaker2: it's all we've got.
speaker3: on screen...
speaker2: we're finding it. please,

speaker1: i don't understand -- kirk puts on his spectacles -- 
speaker2: you've got to learn why things work on a starship. it's coming through now, khan...
speaker3: the prefix code is 16309. all commands from each starship bridge are relayed electronically; each ship has its own prefix combination code...
speaker4: thirty seconds...
speaker2: ... to prevent an enemy from doing just what we're attempting; using
speaker2: wait for my signal, spock -- too soon and he'll have time to figure it out and raise them again.
speaker2: khan, how do i know you'll keep your word?
speaker4: i've given you no word to keep, admiral. in my judgment, you simply have no alternative.
speaker2: i take your point. stand by to receive our transmission.
speaker2: mr. sulu, lock phasers on target and await my command...
speaker5: phasers locked...
speaker4: time's up, admiral...
speaker2: here it comes. now, spock.

speaker1: sir -- our shields are dropping! 
speaker2: raise them -- joachim punches frantically --
speaker1: they won't --

speaker1: at them! at them! fire! fire! 
speaker2: we can't fire, sir; they've damaged the photon controls and the warp drive. we must withdraw!
speaker1: no!
speaker2: sir, we must! we must repair the damage. enterprise will wait; she's not going anywhere.
speaker3: sir, you did it.

speaker1: is the word given? 
speaker2: the word is given: warp speed.
speaker1: aye...

speaker1: he wants to kill me for passing sentence on him 14 years ago -- and he doesn't care who stands between him and his vengeance. 
speaker2: scotty, i'm sorry...
speaker3: he stayed at his post. when the trainees ran, he stayed.
speaker1: if he hadn't, we'd be space by now.
speaker4: admiral, this is spock.
speaker1: yes, spock.
speaker4: engine room reports auxiliary power restored. we can proceed at impulse power.
speaker1: best speed to regula i. kirk out. scotty, i've got to ask: any chance of getting the mains back on the line?
speaker3: i dinna think so, sir, but you'll have my best -- with an effort, he gets to his feet --
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker2: doctors lose patients sometimes.
speaker2: there may still be time... you gave as good as you got.
speaker1: i got beat. we're only alive because i knew something about these ships that he didn't. he turns and leaves as bones watches, looks again at preston.

speaker1: approaching regula and space lab regula i. 
speaker2: try again.
speaker3: space station regular i, this is starship enterprise. come in, please...
speaker3: i say again. space station regular. this is starship enterprise. please respond. please respond.

speaker1: ... no response, sir. 
speaker2: sensors, captain?
speaker3: scanners and sensors still inoperative. there's no way to tell what's inside the station.
speaker2: and no way of knowing if reliant is still in the area...
speaker3: affirmative, admiral.
speaker2: ... blind as a tiberian bat. what do you make of the plantoid beyond?
speaker3: regula is class "d'. it consists of various remarkable ores. essentially, a great rock in space.
speaker2: reliant could be hiding behind that rock.
speaker3: a distinct possibility.
speaker2: engine room... scotty, do we have enough power for the transporters?
speaker4: just barely, sir.
speaker2: i'm going down to the station.
speaker5: khan could be down there!
speaker2: he's been there and hasn't found what he wants. can you spare someone? there may be people hurt.
speaker5: i can spare me...
speaker6: begging the admiral's pardon: general order 15: 'no flag officer shall beam into a hazardous area without armed escort.'
speaker2: there is no such regulation.
speaker2: all right, join the party.
speaker3: aye sir --
speaker2: establish a parking orbit around the station and send me a complete damage report when you've talked with mr. scott.
speaker3: be careful, jim...

speaker1: hello...! anybody here? 
speaker2: indeterminate life signs.
speaker1: phasers on stun. move out.

speaker1: they even killed the galley chief. 
speaker2: this one looks like a steward. they're not warm, but rigor hasn't set in. this didn't happen all that long ago, jim.
speaker1: carol...

speaker1: admiral kirk, enterprise. come in, please. come in please. 
speaker2: my
speaker3: that's clark terrell, jim, i've served with him.
speaker3: brain disturbance. appears to be drug induced. he reaches into his kit. he shoots chekov moves off to terrell. uhura, voice continues in the b.g.
speaker2: saavik, for sake, tell her we're all right.

speaker1: i say again. this is enterprise. please acknowledge signal. please -- saavik's face appears on her screen. 
speaker2: commander uhura, this is lt. saavik. we're all right. please stand by.
speaker1: aye, aye.
speaker3: oh, admiral...!
speaker4: it's dr. mccoy, captain. do you remember me?
speaker5: mccoy? yes. oh, yes.

speaker1: oh, sir. it was khan! we found him on ceti alpha v. 
speaker2: easy, pavel... tell me what you can...
speaker1: no life signs -- but he was there. captured us. he -- he put creatures in our bodies. to control our minds.
speaker3: it's all right, you're safe...
speaker1: ... made us say -- lies... do... things... but we beat him... the captain and me. -- he thought he controlled us, but he didn't ... the captain was strong.
speaker2: captain. where is dr. marcus?
speaker4: he couldn't find them. some of the scientists were still here, but everything else, even the data banks -- were empty.
speaker5: that's true, admiral. all the memory cells have been emptied.
speaker2: erased...
speaker4: he tortured those people. none of them would tell him anything. he went wild, strung them up and slit their throats. he wanted to tear the place apart, but he was late: he had to get back to reliant in time to blow you to bits.
speaker2: he came close...
speaker1: he left us. we were no longer of use.
speaker5: where is the reliant crew? dead?
speaker4: marooned on ceti alpha v. he's completely mad, admiral. he blames you for the death of his wife...
speaker2: i know what he blames me for. the escape pods are all in place. where's the transporter room?

speaker1: did he make it down here? 
speaker2: it was not my impression. he spent most of his time trying to wring the information out of the people.
speaker3: anything?
speaker1: somebody left the unit on. if everyone else was dead, it implies that no one remained to turn it off. those people back there bought escape time for genesis with their lives.
speaker3: it doesn't make sense. these coordinates are well within regula -- a plantoid we know to be lifeless and airless.
speaker1: if stage two was completed, it was underground -- she said it was going to be underground.
speaker3: stage two of what?
speaker1: kirk to enterprise. damage report, spock?
speaker4: admiral, if we go by the book, like lieutenant saavik, hours could seem like days.
speaker1: i read you, captain. let's have it.
speaker4: the situation is grave, admiral. we won't have main power for
speaker4: not at present.
speaker1: captain spock, if you do not hear from us within
speaker1: uhura, if you don't hear from us, there won't be anybody behind. kirk out. you gentleman can remain here, or...
speaker5: if it's all the same, admiral, we'd like to share the risk.
speaker1: very well. let's go.
speaker6: go?
speaker1: then this will be your big chance to get away from it all.
speaker3: ready.

speaker1: you're the sonavabitch who committed mass murder up there. 
speaker2: i'm admiral kirk...

speaker1: i'm doctor marcus! 
speaker2: david --
speaker1: mother, go back!
speaker2: jim --
speaker1: go back. i'm going to kill him.

speaker1: i'll hold onto this. 
speaker2: you've got a little grey --
speaker3: carol. is that true?
speaker3: why didn't you tell me?
speaker4: she's making it up! my father was professor --
speaker2: david, you're just making this harder --
speaker1: i'm afraid it's even harder than you think, doctor.
speaker1: please don't move --
speaker3: chekov -- !
speaker5: i'm sorry, admiral.
speaker1: your excellency, have you been listening?
speaker6: i have indeed, captain. you have done well...
speaker4: i knew it -- !
speaker1: don't move -- any of you!

speaker1: all is well, sir. you have the coordinates to beam up genesis... 
speaker2: first things first, captain. kill admiral kirk.
speaker1: excellency... it is difficult.

speaker1: terrell? chekov -- ! 
speaker2: jim -- for sake! they rush to his side, as do carol and david.

speaker1: still, 'old friend.' you've managed to kill just about everyone else, but like a poor marksman, you keep missing the target. 
speaker2: let go -- he can't -- !
speaker3: only half of you would get there.
speaker1: khan, you have genesis, but you don't have me! you were going to kill me, khan, it was your sole purpose. you'll have to come down here to do it! you'll have to come down!
speaker4: i've done far worse than kill you, admiral. i've hurt you. and i wish to go on hurting you. i shall leave you, as you left me -- where no one will ever find you: poetic justice; marooned for eternity in the center of a dead planet -- buried alive.
speaker1: khan -- !
speaker5: goodbye, admiral. oh, and don't count on enterprise. she can't move. my next act will be to blow her out of the heavens.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: warp drive still inoperative. all other systems should be restored shortly.
speaker1: excellent. we have all the time in the world.
speaker3: this is lt. saavik, calling enterprise... she keeps trying. chekov stirs --
speaker4: he's alive!
speaker5: pavel? chekov tries to smile; kirk takes his hand --
speaker3: no use, admiral, they're still jamming all channels.
speaker4: it wouldn't make any difference. if enterprise obeyed orders she's long since gone. and if she couldn't obey, she's finished.
speaker6: so are we, it looks like.
speaker7: i don't understand. who's responsible for all this?
speaker5: it's a long story.
speaker6: we appear to have plenty of time.
speaker4: you and your father can catch up on things.
speaker6: my father. i hope you realize another man has just been killed because of...
speaker4: because of you, son. you shouldn't have tried to rush someone holding a primed phaser. anyway it isn't one man dead, it's two, in case you've lost count.
speaker5: do you have anything to eat? i don't know about anyone else, but i'm starved.
speaker4: how can you think of food at a time like this?
speaker5: our first order of business is survival.
speaker7: there's food in the genesis cave, enough to last a lifetime -- should that be necessary.
speaker4: we thought
speaker6: but we can't just sit here -- !
speaker5: oh, yes we can. is there really something to eat? david looks at his father, who checks his watch, putting on his spectacles.
speaker7: david. please.
speaker6: this is just to give us something to do, isn't it? come on.
speaker3: admiral?
speaker5: as your teacher mr. spock is fond of saying: i like to think there always are possibilities.

speaker1: david was right, wasn't he? it's just to keep them busy. 
speaker2: why? why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: how can you ask me that? were we together? where we going to be? you had your world and i had mine. i wanted him in mine, not chasing through the universe with his father.
speaker1: he's a lot like you in many ways. nothing i could do about it. he's smarter, of course; that goes without saying. most of genesis is really his.
speaker1: this is it, isn't it? we're never going to get out of here.
speaker2: there's a man i haven't seen in fifteen years who thinks he's killed me. you show me a son who'd almost be happy to help him. my son. my life that could have been and wasn't. what am i feeling? i'm feeling old -- worn out.
speaker1: let me show you something that will make you feel young -- young as when the world was new.
speaker1: he'll be all right. come.

speaker1: you did this -- in a day?! 
speaker2: the matrix formed in a day. the life forms grew later -- at a wildly accelerated rate. can i cook or can't i?
speaker3: impulse power restored.
speaker4: more than a match for poor enterprise.

speaker1: departing dark side, regula. 
speaker2: visual --

speaker1: what are you looking at? 
speaker2: the admiral's son.
speaker1: don't you believe it.
speaker2: oh, i believe it.
speaker2: what are

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: now that's what i call a meal.
speaker3: it's like the garden of eden...
speaker4: only here, every apple comes from the tree of knowledge.
speaker2: what's on your mind, lieutenant?
speaker5: the
speaker3: the no-win scenario -- and with what philosophy a commander faces defeat.
speaker2: are you asking me if we are playing out that scenario now, lieutenant?
speaker5: on the test, sir, will you tell me what you did? i'd really like to know.
speaker3: lieutenant, you are looking at the only starfleet cadet who ever beat the no-win scenario --
speaker2: and almost got tossed out of the academy...
speaker5: how?
speaker2: i reprogrammed the simulation so it was possible to rescue the ship.

speaker1: i changed the conditions of the test. i received a commendation for original thinking. i don't like to lose. 
speaker2: then -- you never faced that situation -- faced death...
speaker3: until now.
speaker1: we each face death every day we're alive, saavik.
speaker1: spock, this is kirk. it's two hours.
speaker4: right on schedule, admiral. just give us your coordinates and we'll beam you aboard.
speaker1: right. i don't like to lose. he clicks off.

speaker1: but the damage report -- we were immobilized... 
speaker2: come, come, lieutenant, you of all people go by the book. hello, spock. you remember dr. marcus...
speaker3: certainly...
speaker1: by the book...
speaker2: regulation 46-a: 'if transmissions are being monitored during battle...'
speaker1: '... no uncoded messages on an open channel...' saavik steps in front of spock.
speaker1: you lied.
speaker3: i exaggerated.
speaker2: hours instead of days, saavik; now we have minutes instead of hours --
speaker4: i'm taking this bunch to sick bay.

speaker1: they're inoperative below c-deck. 
speaker2: what is working around here?
speaker1: not much, admiral. we have partial main power...
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: best we could do in two hours.
speaker3: admiral on the bridge --
speaker2: battle stations.
speaker2: tactical.
speaker2: uh oh.
speaker1: she can out-run us and out-gun us. but there is the mutara nebula at 153 mark four.
speaker2: scotty, can we make it inside?
speaker4: the energizer's bypassed like a christmas tree -- so don't give me too many bumps.
speaker2: no promises, mr. scott. on your way.
speaker5: trouble with the nebula, sir, is all that static discharge and gas clouds our tactical display. visuals won't function and shields will be useless.
speaker1: what's sauce for the goose, mr.

speaker1: i'm going up there. 
speaker2: you'll be in the way, dr. marcus... best stay here.
speaker3: admiral... what happens if reliant fails to follow us into the nebula?
speaker4: i think we can guarantee she'll follow us, mr. saavik. remind me to explain to you the concept of human ego.
speaker5: best speed, scotty...

speaker1: estimating nebula penetration in two minutes. reliant is closing. 
speaker2: steady as you go...

speaker1: we'll lose them if they go in there. 
speaker2: rake her.

speaker1: take it easy -- 
speaker2: but i must --
speaker1: listen to me, pavel; you haven't the strength or the equilibrium --
speaker2: but --
speaker3: dr. mccoy, i can't just sit here.
speaker1: you can help get my surgery squared away. i'm expecting customers.

speaker1: that was close -- 
speaker2: they just don't want us going in there.
speaker3: one minute to nebula perimeter.
speaker3: admiral, they're reducing speed.
speaker2: uhura, patch me in --
speaker4: aye, sir.

speaker1: why are we slowing? 
speaker2: we daren't follow them into the nebula, sir -- our shields will be useless...
speaker3: this is admiral kirk.
speaker3: we tried it once your way, khan. are you game for a rematch?
speaker3: khan -- ! i'm
speaker2: no sir! we have genesis -- whatever you want --

speaker1: tactical! 
speaker2: inoperative.
speaker1: raise the shields...
speaker2: as i feared, sir. not functional. i'm reducing speed.

speaker1: phaser lock inoperative, sir. 
speaker2: best guess, mr. sulu. fire when ready.

speaker1: hold your course. look sharp... 
speaker2: at what.

speaker1: joachim! 
speaker2: yours... is... the superior...
speaker1: i shall avenge you --

speaker1: all right, we'll do the job with auxiliary power. 
speaker2: could you use another hand, admiral?
speaker1: man the weapons console, mr. chekov.
speaker1: spock?
speaker3: sporadic energy readings port side, aft. could be an impulse turn.
speaker1: he won't break off now. if he followed me this far he'll be back.
speaker3: he's intelligent, but not experienced. his pattern indicates two dimensional thinking...
speaker1: mr. saavik, all stop.
speaker4: all stop, sir.
speaker1: descend ten thousand meters. stand by photon torpedoes.

speaker1: torpedoes ready, sir. 
speaker2: fire.

speaker1: cease fire. look sharp. 
speaker2: power levels quite low, sir.
speaker1: mr. scott, can you get the mains back on line?
speaker3: i'll need ten minutes, sir, 'til the radiation dissipates.
speaker1: uhura, send to commander, reliant: prepare to be boarded.
speaker4: aye, sir.

speaker1: commander, reliant, this is enterprise. surrender and prepare to be boarded. repeat... 
speaker2: no... kirk. the game's not over.

speaker1: enterprise to reliant: you are ordered to surrender your vessel. respond! nothing, sir. 
speaker2: we'll beam aboard. alert transporter room --
speaker3: admiral. scanning an energy source on reliant. a pattern i've never seen.
speaker4: it's the genesis wave!
speaker2: what?
speaker4: he's on a build up to detonation!
speaker2: how soon --
speaker4: we encoded four minutes --
speaker2: we'll beam aboard and stop it --
speaker4: you can't!
speaker2: scotty, i need warp speed in three minutes or we're all dead!

speaker1: scotty! 
speaker1: saavik, get us out, best speed!
speaker2: aye, sir.

speaker1: are you out of your vulcan mind? no human can tolerate the radiation loose in there! 
speaker2: but, as you are so fond of observing, doctor, i'm not human.
speaker1: you're not going in there -- !
speaker2: i'm afraid i can't stop to discuss this logically --

speaker1: time from my mark... 
speaker2: two minutes, ten seconds.
speaker1: engine room! what's happening?!

speaker1: captain, please! 
speaker2: get out! get out, man! oh, dear god...!

speaker1: time! 
speaker2: three minutes, thirty seconds.
speaker1: distance from reliant...
speaker3: four hundred kilometers.
speaker4: sir! the mains are back on line -- !
speaker1: bless you, scotty. go, saavik!

speaker1: disappearing in the swirls of: 
speaker2: which clears the flame and --
speaker3: roaring through space -- and:

speaker1: reduce speed. my carl. look at it. 
speaker1: engine room. well done. scotty?
speaker2: jim, you'd better get down here. hurry.
speaker1: saavik, take the con.

speaker1: no, sir! you'll flood the whole compartment...! 
speaker2: he'll die -- !
speaker3: he's dead already, jim.
speaker2: oh,

speaker1: spock! 
speaker2: the ship -- out of danger?
speaker1: yes -- spock is satisfied; he fights for breath --
speaker2: don't grieve, admiral -- it's logical: the good of the many outweighs --
speaker1: ... the good of the few...
speaker2: or the one.
speaker2: i never took the
speaker2: i have been -- and always will be -- your friend... live. long. and. prosper.
speaker1: no...!
speaker3: admiral, you've got to see this! there's new life -- a whole new world, a genesis world -- ! but kirk is past hearing or caring. he is huddled up against the glass, destroyed. bones looks on, helpless.

speaker1: in accordance with the traditions of starfleet and of article 184 starfleet regulations, we are assembled here today to pay final respects to our honored dead. 
speaker1: and yet, in the midst of our sorrow it should be noted that this death takes place in the shadow of new life, the sunrise of a new world, a world that our beloved comrade gave his own life to protect and nourish. he did not feel that sacrifice a vain or empty one -- and we will not debate his profound wisdom, in these proceedings. of my friend, i can only say this, that of all the souls i have encountered in my travels, his was the most -- -- human. he tries to go on, but catches bones' face: bones is streaming tears. kirk can't go on.
speaker1: lieutenant saavik.

speaker1: we commend the soul of our brother departed. we love we commit his body to the depths of space. 
speaker2: honors -- hup!

speaker1: return -- hup! 
speaker2: lieutenant. she steps to him and they exchange salutes --
speaker2: after you dismiss the company, you will take the watch. set course for ceti alpha v and we'll pick up survivors.
speaker3: aye, sir.
speaker2: i'll be in my quarters if needed, but i would prefer...
speaker3: understood, sir.

speaker1: yes... come. 
speaker2: i don't mean to intrude.
speaker1: uh, no... i should be on the bridge.
speaker2: are you running away from me?
speaker1: i suppose i was. i poured a drink. would you like it?
speaker2: no. i -- i guess i'm not what you expected.
speaker1: i didn't expect anything.
speaker2: that makes two of us. lieutenant saavik was right: you never have faced death --
speaker1: not like this -- no. i haven't faced death, i cheated death. i tricked my way out of death and patted myself on the back for my ingenuity. i know nothing.
speaker2: you knew enough to tell saavik that how we face death is at least as important as how we face life --
speaker1: it was just words.
speaker2: but good words. that's where ideas begin. maybe you should listen to them.
speaker1: i'm trying, david.
speaker2: so am i. my friends were killed, too.
speaker1: i am truly sorry.
speaker2: i was wrong about you. and
speaker2: mainly. and also that i'm proud -- very proud -- to be your son.

speaker1: admiral on the bridge! 
speaker2: as you were, mr. saavik.
speaker1: aye, sir. on course to ceti alpha.
speaker2: good, i believe you already know my, uh, son -- saavik comes close to blushing --
speaker2: yes, well, why don't you show him around and...
speaker1: aye, sir -- she takes him off, deadpan amusement --
speaker1: so
speaker3: she's changed her hair again. will you look at that? think they'll name it for you, doctor?
speaker4: not if i can help it. we'll name it for our friend.
speaker2: it is a far far better thing i do than i have ever done before... a far better resting place i go to than i have ever known...
speaker4: is that a poem?
speaker2: something spock was trying to tell me. on my birthday.
speaker3: you okay, jim? how do you feel?
speaker2: young. i feel young, doctor.
speaker2: lieutenant, new course: 'second star to the right and straight on till morning.' the bridge crackles with lights and chatter as we...

