speaker1: smoke curls. a man's hand picks it up. 
speaker2: on a coat rack.
speaker3: overflowing with crunched-up paper.

speaker1: he sighs, and turns. 
speaker2: the muse has not descended, lucille. the muse has not descended. it, lucille, you hear me?

speaker1: the muse has not descended. 
speaker2: yes! the muse has left me stranded here like a beached whale -- only one phrase, one word, from finishing the greatest essay i've ever written! one word, the right word -- flaubert called it 'le mot juste' -- i ever tell you that?
speaker1: 'le mot juste' -- the exact right word the writer needs to tell his story. yessir, you've mentioned it.
speaker2: hemingway, faulkner, joyce -- they all searched for 'le mot juste' until they cried, until they bled...
speaker1: yessir.
speaker2: what is this essay about again?
speaker1: fishing.
speaker2: i mean what is it really about?
speaker1: you said it was about the quote unquote primal issues of survival, man against nature, etcetera -- that's what you said.
speaker2: ohyeah... so... we end the essay with...

speaker1: 'the tarpon leaps shimmering into the late cross light of the keys, a primeval moment frozen in... ... frozen in'... 
speaker2: shimmering tarpon -- very good, mr. stump... ... 'frozen in' what?
speaker1: i don't know, lucille, that's what the muse will tell me if she ever descends. ... 'frozen in'...
speaker2: yes? yes? just a minute, i'll see if he's available. it's your wife -- are you and she speaking again?
speaker1: i dunno. how does she sound?
speaker2: don't ask me to interpret.
speaker1: tell her... tell her... i'll talk... no... tell her i'm out -- i'll call her later... it.

speaker1: apparently he's out, mrs. stump -- i'll have him call you back. 
speaker2: i need a drink.
speaker1: what about 'le mot juste,' mr.
speaker2: 'le mot juste,' lucille! finish the thing yourself. 'the primeval moment is frozen in' whatever the you want it to be. did you know that james joyce let his secretary -- none other than samuel beckett -- revise and edit molly's solliloquy in ulysses? you're my beckett -- i give you 'le mot juste!' just get the thing in the mail so i can get paid.
speaker1: problems with the mrs.?
speaker2: i don't know. i need a drink.

speaker1: hey, stumpy... 
speaker2: awright, awright... how do you get five old ladies to say 'fuck?'
speaker3: jeez, i dunno, how? etc...
speaker2: yell 'bingo.'
speaker4: okay, i got one -- a drunk is taking a in front of a bar, a bus drives by, real fast right along the curb, and knocks his thing off. drunk picks up his thing, puts it in his pocket, goes into a bar, reaches into his pocket and puts his thing on the bar. 'look't that,' he says, 'bus knocked my thing off.' bartender says, 'that ain't your thing -- that's a cigar butt.'

speaker1: drunk reaches into his other pocket and slaps another thing on the bar. 'there,' he says, 'bus knocked my thing off.' bartender says, 'you're drunk and that ain't your thing either. that's another cigar butt.' drunk looks down at both cigar butts and back up at the bartender and says, 'god it, i mushta smoked my dick.' 
speaker2: amidst this levity, gentlemen, i have some real concerns. mark my words, people will look back on this year and say that 1960 was the year that western civilization began its downward trajectory.
speaker3: you need to get laid, frank.
speaker2: guys, guys, c'mon... do you really think things are as good as they used to be? you think jack kennedy is qualified to be president?
speaker3: kennedy may not be qualified, but -- jackie's a babe -- and that's good enough for me.
speaker1: they're a happily married couple and that oughta stand for something these days...
speaker4: speaking of being happily married, al, are you and your old lady still having problems?

speaker1: oh no, the wife and i are all patched up -- doin' fantastic. 
speaker2: good to hear... awright... way to go, stumpy...
speaker3: i mean look at us -- we call ourselves writers but we just watch ballgames and get drunk a lot. you call that writing?
speaker1: yes i do.
speaker4: in the department store of life, sports is the toy department -- so what?
speaker5: yeah, besides, alan here's writing a serious novel, aren't ya?
speaker4: yeah, well i haven't started yet but i'm gonna. i've been busy.
speaker3: you guys are pathetic. ya write for one reason -- a paycheck.
speaker1: more art was created for money than for passion. take your platitudes and shove 'em, frank. i'm gonna write a novel too, someday.
speaker3: the great american novel, i suppose?
speaker1: it could come from my pen.
speaker3: you're a barbershop writer, al -- you write sugar-coated pieces for guys to skim when they're waiting for a haircut!

speaker1: awright, that's it! let's go! settle this right here! 
speaker2: hey!
speaker3: stump! for you.
speaker1: phone call saved your ass.
speaker1: yeah... yeah... who?... no... you're kidding?... when? stump hangs up the phone and turns. his face registers shock, or more precisely, bewilderment and wonder.
speaker1: hey... shut up!
speaker1: cobb wants to see me.
speaker2: cobb who?
speaker1: ty cobb! how many cobbs are there?!

speaker1: ty cobb? i thought he was dead? 
speaker2: not yet. he said he wants to tell me the real story of his life before he croaks.
speaker3: you were just talking to ty cobb?
speaker2: the georgia peach himself.
speaker1: they say cobb is crazy. the meanest who ever lived.
speaker4: i heard he killed a man.
speaker3: maybe so, but -- he was the greatest baseball player of them all.
speaker5: yeah, the best, no one close, etc...
speaker1: listen, al, be careful --
speaker2: i ain't gettin' my shot, don't worry...
speaker1: no, not that -- the story. this is like ivan the terrible inviting somebody into the czar's palace before he died.
speaker2: except ivan was a nicer guy...

speaker1: don't let cobb you. this is your shot. this is all our shot. when does he want to see you? 
speaker2: immediately.

speaker1: this 1905 cameo of an 18-year-old youth shows a peaches-and-cream complexion and the piercing eyes of a lad who would become, etc... 
speaker2: his reputation as being difficult at best, psychotic at worst, preceded him. but if there was one thing i knew after all my years as a journalist covering politicians, celebrities, and sports heroes, it was this --

speaker1: the 'facts' -- and public perception of those 'facts' -- frequently bear little resemblance. 
speaker1: one thing was beyond argument -- he was the most brilliant athlete of his time... perhaps of any time. i was determined to find out who was the real ty cobb.

speaker1: driving into the sierras at night with winter coming on wasn't the smartest decision i'd ever made but it seemed better than being late for my first meeting with cobb. 
speaker1: 

speaker1: fill it up and replace the wiper blades. 
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: colder than a witch's tit, eh?
speaker2: it's just starting. we got three- four feet of snow another thousand feet up. where ya going? skiing?

speaker1: actually, i'm going to meet ty cobb. 
speaker2: cobb?! he stopped here for gas once, i asked him for an autograph for my boy and he told me to shove it where the sun don't shine.
speaker1: i hear he's got a way with kids...
speaker1: hey, baby, it's me... al... your husband... i'm up in the woods somewhere on assignment... listen, sweetheart, listen -- nobody can love you the way i love you and i want you to take me back. i made a mistake. okay, lots of mistakes. i know i'm not worthy.
speaker1: honey? sweetheart? baby?

speaker1: you, mr. cobb, i have too much dignity to spend another moment with you. i hope you die before the sun comes up and may you rot in hell! 
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: i'm a writer.
speaker1: you mean he actually found somebody to take the job?

speaker1: mr. cobb? 
speaker1: mr. cobb?

speaker1: hello? mr. cobb? 
speaker1: thank you very much, mr. cobb, but i don't need this job that bad.
speaker2: yes, mr. stump -- you do need this job that bad.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: but you are a hopeless romantic and only a moderate success.
speaker1: sir, i am the most successful sportswriter in america and not merely a 'moderate success.'
speaker2: of course. give me those pills over there.

speaker1: that's an invitation to a testimonial dinner at the baseball hall of fame in cooperstown, new york. you're taking me there -- when is it? 
speaker2: a few weeks.
speaker1: all the great ones will be there -- the great mickey cochrane will be there! hornsby, sisler, ott, the waner brothers... we used to have some parties, stump, i'll tell ya that right now... we can't forget.
speaker2: i won't forget.
speaker1: look at me closely, al... lie after lie has been written about me -- my whole life i've been misunderstood. you're gonna tell the real story of ty cobb.
speaker2: what's the 'real' story?
speaker1: that's why you're here. see, there's two kinds of writers. the kind that spin endless yarns about small subjects... that's you.

speaker1: or... there's the kind with one great subject that consumes them forever. that could be you. because i am that subject. cobb hobbles to a table in front of a window. the table is covered with pills, bottles, needles, and booze. 
speaker2: you okay?
speaker1: mmmmmm...

speaker1: there's a small oil company near bakersfield called honolulu oil, sitting near the elk hills reserve... i want you to buy all the stock you can. 
speaker2: honolulu oil?
speaker1: getty is expanding in the west, looking for companies like that. i got a hunch... stumpy, c'mere... cobb picks up the revolver and holds it lovingly.
speaker1: i can take that buck. what'ya think?
speaker3: with a pistol? no way.

speaker1: got him. 
speaker2: like you did.
speaker1: right behind the ear.
speaker2: you're full of
speaker1: jameson?
speaker3: if mr. cobb said he got him, then he got him.
speaker1: you have no vision, stump. a writer without vision is a waste of my time. i think i picked the wrong man.
speaker3: and i think i better get back to san francisco before the storm hits. i'll take care of these transactions, mr. cobb.

speaker1: and i'll be leaving as well, sir, since you think i'm the wrong man for the job. 
speaker2: shut up, stump -- we both know that i'm your meal ticket. we need each other. and we start in the morning.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: ready, mr. cobb. 
speaker2: chapter one, page one...
speaker1: i'm ready.
speaker2: 'know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day.' stump types it out, then stops.
speaker1: what the is that?
speaker2: that's what robert e. lee said at the burial of my grandfather who was a confederate general killed at fredricksburg.
speaker1: so i'm taking notes?
speaker2: no. that's the first line of my autobiography.
speaker1: i ain't writing it.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: it's horseshit. it's a third person comment about someone who's already dead. an autobiography has to be in the first person -- plus it can't come from the other side of the grave.
speaker2: my story can come from any place i want.
speaker1: not to mention you can't call yourself 'a prince and great man' -- that's for the world to decide.

speaker1: what kind of a writer you call yourself -- all tied up in rules and regulations. what's the point being a writer if you can't say what you want to? 
speaker2: you're not treating me like a writer -- you're treating me like a stenographer.
speaker2: know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day...
speaker1: it has a certain ring to it...
speaker2: yes it does.
speaker1: i thought you might like it. it's yours, a gift from me. 'cobb, a prince among men, misunderstood in his genius, as genius always is' - this is the second line from what will be the greatest biography of a great man ever written -- type it!
speaker1: bethlehem steel's about to dive.
speaker1: jameson. bethlehem's going in the toilet. dump it all!

speaker1: you got a stock tip for me? 
speaker2: yeah... buy coca-cola. we're about to go out in cans.
speaker1: coke in cans? i don't think so.
speaker2: you know what's wrong with ty cobb?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: every disease known to man -- i got 'em all! and they'll never get me in a hospital -- never! my heart leaks -- the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me digoxin to keep it pumping... cobb grabs a bottle of digoxin pills and flings it across the room in a rage. he flings bottles of pills as he recites his ailments.
speaker2: they give me darvon for the cancer in my back, they give me tace for something eatin' up my stomach, fleets compound for an infection in my bowels, librium for my tension, insulin for my diabetes...
speaker2: insulin...

speaker1: and if all that wasn't enough, it's been two years since i got my in the air... the south may not rise again but my will. 
speaker1: i ain't here!
speaker2: cobb's residence... hello. he's not here -- who's calling? ernie? ernie who? my it's ernest hemingway... for you.
speaker1: tell him to go to hell!
speaker2: christ, ty, this is the great american writer -- this is the man who inspired me to become a writer!
speaker1: tell him to go to anyway.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: him and me used to be pals but we went on a hunting trip once and he hired a guide.

speaker1: that's it? you didn't like a guide he hired? 
speaker2: you tell him to go himself or i'll kick your yankee ass!
speaker1: mr. hemingway? mr. cobb says... to go to hell. by the way i'm a big fan of yours -- click, a hang up.
speaker2: hemingway isn't a bullfighter -- he wrote about bullfighting. what the is that?! painkillers...
speaker1: ty, you okay?
speaker2: it'll pass... stumpy, listen to me -- you know what i need?
speaker1: what do you need?
speaker2: i need a woman. a woman is definitely what i need...

speaker1: i couldn't be around the man for long without needing a break, which his painkillers gracefully provided. my sanity would soon depend upon a frequent breath of fresh air, a walk in the woods -- any escape from what one sportswriter had called 'cobb's brooding soul that bubbled with violence.' 
speaker1: i knew most of the cobb stories -- first man elected to the hall of fame, ahead of the incomparable babe ruth. statistics that haven't been approached in three-quarters of a century.
speaker1: but i'd known boxing champions and football players -- they were gentle souls outside the arena. how much of cobb was an act, a lifetime of theatrical intimidation to preserve his own legend?

speaker1: legends grow in time. tough guys are tougher, women more beautiful, routine acts of self-preservation become heroic. 
speaker1: my

speaker1: we're going to reno. i want a woman. 
speaker2: there's a blizzard out there!
speaker1: when a man wants a woman, a man wants a woman.

speaker1: let's just put on some soup, build a fire, and we can work on the book. 
speaker2: how cozy. i got 25 thousand in cash and negotiable securities in here.
speaker1: look, ty, the roads are impassable.
speaker2: you lead, i'll follow.
speaker1: i'm not driving in this stuff!
speaker2: i need a woman!

speaker1: get off the road -- ya can't drive any faster?! move it! 
speaker2: you! i ain't dying in this ice cube!

speaker1: cobb! 
speaker1: cobb?
speaker2: it's about time you got here!
speaker1: you've alive?

speaker1: i wouldn't call it living but it'll do. help me outta here. 
speaker2: there's blood!
speaker1: of course there's blood! i just put my head through the windshield of a car, what the ya think, ya big jerk.
speaker2: shut up!
speaker1: ty cobb can't die like this! they'll bury me and nobody'll know who it is!
speaker2: i said shut up.
speaker1: look't that! no guard rail! i'm suing the state highway commission, i'm suing the governor, i'm suing every body! i coulda been killed!
speaker2: it, shut up and get in the car!
speaker1: gimme your keys, i'm driving.
speaker2: i'm driving.

speaker1: do you know how to get to reno? 
speaker2: over my dead body!
speaker1: your call.
speaker2: you miserable son of a you coward, you pathetic, frightened, desperate old man -- you can't do anything without that gun and frankly it doesn't impress me to keep flashing it because i know you're not gonna shoot me 'cause you need me worse than i need you. what, you're gonna kill me?
speaker1: i've killed a man.
speaker2: fine, then put me outta my misery. i'm freezing.
speaker1: here ya go, stumpy. i like a man who stands up to me.
speaker1: now give me the keys. i'm driving.

speaker1: it's only another hour -- plenty of time to tell you my story before we find us some women. 
speaker2: women? plural?
speaker1: some for you, some for me. we'll have a helluva time. the broads're probably lining up right now, waiting for ol' ty and his buddy stump.
speaker2: dear
speaker1: i suppose you want to know about my childhood. writers usually do.
speaker2: none of this 'know ye that a prince and great man has fallen' stuff --
speaker1: my philosophy is simply this -- life is too short to be diplomatic. a man's friends shouldn't mind what he does or says, and those who are not his friends, well, to with 'em.
speaker1: i was born in a small town in georgia, of course... my sweet sister florence still lives there...

speaker1: my mother was the most beautiful woman in the county... she married my father when she was twelve which was the way they used to do it. and she taught me to believe in the hymns we sang... i especially liked the ones... 'and sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains...' 
speaker1: i remember after i was baptized and i was walking home with my pals...
speaker1: i was feeling very christian, ready to live the good life -- my father didn't drink, smoke, gamble or chase women -- and i wasn't going to either --
speaker1: ... when all of a sudden a train was coming at us.
speaker2: headed right for the boys.
speaker1: there i was, a newly baptized child of who hadn't hardly sinned, and i was gonna die.

speaker1: my father died in a terrible accident, you know. 
speaker2: no, i didn't, really...
speaker1: didn't you do your research on me before you came up here?
speaker2: i didn't have time... i mean, i knew the basics.
speaker1: then you've read that i'm the meanest of them all?
speaker2: people have said that, yes...
speaker1: i don't care what people think.
speaker2: then why do you care what i write?
speaker1: i am who i tell you i am! why are you making things so complicated?!
speaker2: that's what writers do.

speaker1: well writers oughta make things simple! everything's complicated enough as it is. 
speaker2: maybe you're right!
speaker1: of course i'm right! stump suddenly looks up and shouts in terror.
speaker2: ty!
speaker2: godddddddd!
speaker1: don't shout like that, stumpy -- it just increases my tension. i saw that truck all along -- you think i'm gonna hit a truck when i'm getting close to finding me some women?
speaker1: my father was murdered, y'know.
speaker2: your father was murdered?
speaker1: i mean that's the sort of thing you're looking for, isn't it? murdered on the balcony of his own house... the house i grew up in...

speaker1: your father was murdered? how come nobody knows about this? 
speaker2: the oldtimers in royston know about it. nobody else's business. it happened when i was 17, a few days before detroit called me up.
speaker1: but this helps explain why -- he catches himself.
speaker2: why i'm such a prick? ha! that's too easy -- you're a better writer than that --
speaker1: was the killer ever caught?
speaker2: there was an arrest, a trial, and an acquittal. nobody was ever convicted.
speaker1: christ --

speaker1: single to left, steal second, steal third, steal home... 
speaker2: eight to one.
speaker1: you!
speaker2: ten to one.
speaker1: you're on.

speaker1: who the ever signed you? 
speaker2: go to hell.
speaker1: hey, cyclops, you're missing a good game.
speaker3: shut up, cobb.
speaker1: here ya go...
speaker1: your old lady left 'em in my car last night -- i thought you could give 'em back to her.

speaker1: you're going down, cobb. 
speaker2: let's go.

speaker1: that's as hard as you can throw?! it that was my fastball i'd wear a dress! 
speaker1: hey, wagner! i'd shade me a little up the middle if i was you!
speaker1: you try to take my head off then you throw a sinker away, in and out, same old -- sinker away...

speaker1: hey, krauthead, i'm coming down. 
speaker2: he just nods.

speaker1: nods, winds up, and as he does -- 
speaker2: in those days you didn't hold hands and dance with the men on the other teams. they were the enemy -- you fought with 'em. and i was the most hated man in baseball.

speaker1: i hate your guts, cobb! 
speaker2: a good day to you, too, sir...
speaker2: do you know what it's like to be booed like that?
speaker2: it feels wonderful! they couldn't live without me! they came to the ballpark to see me!

speaker1: cut-out letters read: "cobb - you're dead" 
speaker2: fifty thousand fans trying to kill me everywhere i went!

speaker1: he smiles. 
speaker2: i loved it. only great men are booed. captains of industry and presidents. i knew 'em all...

speaker1: after world war two, general patton asked me for an autograph -- he said he patterned himself after me! are you getting this? 
speaker2: i'll remember.
speaker1: why aren't you writing?!
speaker2: 'cause i'm trying to have a good grip on things when this car goes over the next cliff! i ain't ready to die yet!
speaker1: but neither am i.
speaker2: ty!
speaker1: i said i'm not ready to die.
speaker2: then watch the road.
speaker1: but you're not listening to me! i may have every disease known to man but i am never going to check into a hospital because i am alive and i am going to get laid in reno!

speaker1: you're gonna get laid, too, stumpy! 
speaker2: maybe i don't wanta get laid!
speaker1: you queer?!
speaker2: i'm married.
speaker1: i thought you were divorced.
speaker2: we're in the middle of a...
speaker1: talking my ass! quit hanging on -- get a divorce. is that why you don't wanta get laid in reno? 'cause you're feeling loyal to a woman you're divorcing? that's really stupid, stumpy...
speaker2: i'm not getting a divorce. i'm being loyal.
speaker1: is that why you used to wine and dine that little brunette who had an office across the courtyard from you in santa barbara?
speaker2: what do you know about her?!
speaker1: i do my homework, stumpy. i know where the bodies are buried.
speaker2: it didn't last long!

speaker1: hey, no need to defend yourself. when it comes to women i'm a total -- the difference is, stumpy, that i know i'm a 
speaker2: nobody knows about the brunette.
speaker1: our little secret, huh? and that part about me being a with women? that ain't gonna be in the book.
speaker2: i gotta put your family in my book.
speaker1: your book?! my book! and nothing about my ex-wives or children are gonna be in it. my book is about baseball!
speaker2: my book is about cobb!
speaker1: cobb is baseball!

speaker1: stop the car! 
speaker2: whoever it is he's gotta be pretty stupid to be out in this
speaker1: we're out in this

speaker1: help me. please help me. 
speaker2: my it's you. are you okay?
speaker3: i can't believe you found me...
speaker2: let me help you to the car.
speaker3: i told you that you'd only last one day with the bastard.
speaker2: cobb's in the car. he's driving.
speaker3: mr. cobb's in the car?
speaker2: yeah...

speaker1: then i'm not getting in the car with that son of a i'd rather take my chances out here. 
speaker2: you're coming!
speaker1: he hates me. he hates black people...
speaker2: he hates everybody. don't give him the pleasure of dying out here.
speaker1: if dying out here gives him pleasure then i won't die out here.
speaker2: ty, it's willie. we can give him a lift to town.
speaker3: i ain't givin' no a ride nowhere!

speaker1: shut the up and give him a ride! 
speaker2: now who's the coward! you won't shoot me! you need me!

speaker1: no. but i'm sure willie would take great pleasure in it. 
speaker2: you'll pay for this, stumpy...
speaker1: say, willie, you a baseball fan?
speaker3: yessir...
speaker1: who's the greatest ballplayer of all time, in your opinion?
speaker3: willie mays, no doubt about it.
speaker2: that couldn't hold my jock!
speaker1: excuse me, mr. cobb, the man is speaking...

speaker1: and i'd say the second greatest player of all time is jackie robinson... or maybe josh gibson... 
speaker2: shut up!!
speaker1: and of course, the greatest base runner of all time isn't riding in this car -- the fastest baseball player of all time was cool papa bell -- cool papa would've easily broke all your stolen base records --

speaker1: noooooo! 
speaker2: cool papa was so fast that when he entered a hotel room and flipped the light switch off, he'd be asleep in bed before it got dark...
speaker3: and then there's satchel paige...
speaker2: oh yeah, satchel paige could throw a porkchop past a wolf, mr. cobb, ol' satchel woulda had you eatin' outta his hand, he woulda had you hittin' .220 and kissin' his black to boot...
speaker1: shut this man up!
speaker2: the man with the gun does the talking, you wretched, old prick...

speaker1: stand back, you old farts. i'm in the middle of something -- the heat's on the blink and the mattress is lumpy -- i want a discount. 
speaker2: aw, c'mon, you always want a discount, mona.
speaker3: ra-mona... and the mattress is always lumpy --
speaker4: excuse me, i've gotta get him checked in. he's very sick.
speaker3: we're all sick in the eyes of -- but some of us still have manners.
speaker4: two rooms, next to each other.

speaker1: his face looks terrible, drawn, drained. 
speaker2: my money...

speaker1: your money's okay, ty, right here... 
speaker2: my gun...
speaker1: your gun's okay, too... right here...
speaker2: we haven't missed the testimonial dinner, have we?
speaker1: no we haven't missed the dinner...
speaker2: good, good...

speaker1: omigod, what can i say? i feel terrible -- no, it's not okay, jeez... when i get off the road we'll do something special -- a late birthday, eh? maybe you can go to spring training or something with me, eh? yeah... listen, is your mother there? i know she doesn't want to speak to me, but i want to speak to her. okay, okay -- i feel terrible about the birthday... i'll call you real soon. and tell your mother i'm not drinking anymore. okay... 'bye, 'bye... stump hangs up the phone -- takes a deep breath, and... 
speaker1: it...
speaker1: i was a fool for thinking cobb's brilliance might be what i needed at this moment of my life... ty cobb was the last thing i needed. he was not misunderstood -- he was understood perfectly well. he hated blacks, he hated jews, he hated catholics -- he hated everything except himself and his own view of the world... at times it seemed like he would drop dead in front of me... ... and other times he seemed indestructible...

speaker1: 'pathetic, paranoid, lost in the past!' what is this shit?! 
speaker2: those are my notes! you can't look at my notes!
speaker1: you're notes -- my life! you're gonna betray me, you son of a
speaker2: you want the truth? i'm gonna tell the truth!

speaker1: whose truth? 
speaker2: mine, for crissakes, i'm the writer!
speaker1: but i'm the legend and legends are not pathetic!
speaker2: these are just notes...
speaker1: don't you understand anything about 'greatness'?
speaker2: maybe you should find another writer.
speaker1: there's not enough time left.
speaker2: i'm entitled to my opinions --
speaker1: now that's pathetic. who gives a good about the opinions of al stump?! what people want to know about is ty cobb! and they don't want to know who he hates 'cause everybody hates somebody! they don't wanta know if he had two wives or ten! they don't wanta know if he hit women or if they hit him!
speaker2: you think they wanta know how to steal second base?
speaker1: yes! precisely!
speaker2: well i don't!

speaker1: oh, oh, oh... i get it. you're one of them college psychology type guys. you wanta find the missing piece to finish the puzzle known as the madman cobb -- you think you're the next hemingway but you're just a moderate success in a moderate-sized pond. 
speaker2: you, cobb! i'm much more than a moderate success!
speaker1: that's it, now you're showing some life. you want psychology? i'll give you some psychology!
speaker2: i'm all ears.
speaker1: my father was a great man...

speaker1: my father told my mother he was going out of town for the weekend on business. but he didn't go. he came back 'cause he thought she was being unfaithful... 
speaker1: i don't know why he thought it -- 'cause my mother was a wonderful woman -- but he thought it.

speaker1: the window. it starts to open. 
speaker2: my father had high standards... the highest. he believed in quality... he believed in education... he believed in he believed in me... he believed in my mother... but on that night he seemed like a prowler... and so --

speaker1: how's that? a pretty good piece of psychology, eh? that what you're looking for? the childhood incident that explans me?! 
speaker1: well i was a before it happened and a bigger after it happened so stick that up your sigmund freud ass!
speaker2: your mother killed your father?
speaker1: and you ain't printing it.
speaker2: i have to.
speaker1: not if i say so. i don't think you understand something -- i have final editorial approval of the book.
speaker2: no, i do. i always have it.
speaker1: did you read your contract?
speaker2: it's my standard contract. i just signed. i would never have agreed to this if you had final approval.

speaker1: call your agent. 
speaker2: hello? charlie? al... i'm in reno... yeah... things are fine... yeah, listen... i'm just checking... did we give away final editorial approval on this cobb book? we did? cobb has it? jesus... stump listens long and hard -- his face sinks.
speaker1: well, you were pretty stupid to give up approval, weren't ya?
speaker2: you, cobb?
speaker1: me? why me? why you mad at me? your agent made the deal, your lawyer, your publisher, you didn't even read the contract because you trusted them! who the ever trusted a lawyer or an agent?! if i was al stump, the guy i'd be off at would be al stump!
speaker2: listen to me, you son of a -- if you die before the book is finished, i'll write the story i want.
speaker1: but i ain't dying first.
speaker2: i'll write slow.

speaker1: i'll die slow. 
speaker1: now get dressed so we can go find some women...

speaker1: 'that old black magic has me in its spell, that old black magic that you weave so well..' cobb and stump at a table drinking and eating. 
speaker2: look't that -- hundred bucks says i get in her pants before dawn.
speaker3: my -- it's mona... ra-mona... we met her at the hotel...
speaker2: i don't remember...
speaker4: cigarettes, gentlemen? cigars? we stockpiled some havanas before senor castro did his little number.

speaker1: coupla monte cristos, ramona, number twos. 
speaker2: have we met?
speaker1: at the hotel -- checking in.
speaker2: ohyeah, you were the
speaker3: excuse me, young lady, i must apologize for the behavior of my friend -- he has a crude side.
speaker2: i accept.
speaker3: ramona... spanish name... lovely... it means 'moonlit garden of the gods'...
speaker2: actually it's german and means 'wise protectoress' but thanks for the thought...

speaker1: ... so let's give a harrah's casino warm welcome to the greatest baseball player of all time, the one and only ty cobb! the spotlight flies to cobb who kisses ramona's hand. 
speaker2: 'moonlit garden of the gods'?
speaker3: motions to his band.
speaker1: and this one's for the georgia peach!
speaker4: no gal made has got a shade on sweet georgia brown, two left feet but oh so sweet is sweet georgia brown...
speaker1: the great ty cobb! c'mon up here!
speaker2: they want you, ty --
speaker5: of course they want me.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: the greatest baseball player of all time.
speaker1: i don't know baseball from shmaseball but i know a nice man when i see one and i also know it's time for my coffee break. hasta luego.
speaker3: as cobb arrives...
speaker4: fellas, she can't get, are fellas, she ain't met, georgia made her, georgia claimed her, sweet georgia brown. louis prima welcomes cobb to the mike to thunderous applause.
speaker5: my great pleasure, sir -- i've always wanted to ask you something, mr. cobb, with all the great ballplayers playing right now -- how well do you think you'd do against today's players?
speaker6: well, i figure against today's pitchers i'd only hit about .275,

speaker1: because i'm 72 years old, that's why, it. give me that thing. 
speaker1: first of all i wanta thank you for that song, 'sweet georgia brown... it's a great song about my home state and i appreciate it... that song has become the theme song for the harlem globetrotters... it's too bad such a fine song had to be stole by a buncha playing a game in their underwear...
speaker1: 'course the globetrotters are owned by a jew named saperstein so whadda you expect?
speaker2: thank you very much. another round of applause for the georgia peach, ty cobb!
speaker1: i got the mike, dago -- gimme a minute. nobody's got respect for their elders any more.

speaker1: now let me explain to you how to hit a baseball. it's a lost art. ever since that half-nigger ruth started hitting home runs, the skill, the art, and the science have been lost. 
speaker1: now, say this is a bat...

speaker1: let's just haul him off -- 
speaker2: that's ty cobb! he'll kill me!
speaker3: you see, the bat is like a wand, a magic wand... it should be caressed, held like a woman... like a woman who's really in need of a man...
speaker4: the casino manager winces and consults.
speaker1: oh here we go...
speaker3: hitting a baseball is really very easy... you can't force it... you can't overpower it... you go with the pitch... you let the bat do the work... it's all rhythm and flow...

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker2: you again? you could learn some manners from your friend.
speaker1: i'll try harder. you're a beautiful woman.
speaker3: it's the wig.
speaker2: the thing itches but it's good for tips. give me a scratch, will ya?
speaker3: turn you on? hey, harvey, another round. on him.
speaker1: vodka and grapefruit juice.
speaker1: your wig's crooked.
speaker2: does it bother you?
speaker1: no, no... i was just --

speaker1: you wanta go to bed with me, right? stump is so taken aback that he doesn't know how to answer. flustered, he looks around, then takes a deep hit on his drink. he is very unsure. 
speaker2: you want money?
speaker1: i'm not a whore! i don't screw for money?!
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't know. i mean i'm not good at this.
speaker1: just divorced, huh?
speaker2: not yet...
speaker1: it's written all over ya. giant letters right across the forehead. d-i-v-o-r-c-e. ha! plain as day.
speaker2: it's obvious, huh?
speaker1: obvious. so, if ya wanta pay me to screw, i won't do it.
speaker2: then i won't.
speaker1: screw or pay?
speaker2: whichever.

speaker1: so ya don't wanta screw? 
speaker2: no, i do.
speaker1: all this ambiguity -- i see why she's divorcing ya.
speaker2: i don't know what i'm saying or doing anymore... i'm trying to speak my heart.
speaker1: oh
speaker2: i told my wife i wanted a divorce. she said 'okay' -- then i realized maybe i don't.
speaker1: then go back to her.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then quit crying. you want a divorce, you don't want a divorce, you're asking marital advice from a woman you're trying to get in the sack -- jeez louise!
speaker2: i'm not myself.
speaker1: who is?

speaker1: another round, harvey. this assignment has me befuddled. i'm supposed to tell the world that a monster is really a prince. i'm supposed to lie. 
speaker2: you being paid?
speaker1: very well.
speaker2: then it's not a lie. it's a job. quit agonizing -- take the money, do what you gotta do, and get it over with.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: then quit.
speaker1: no!
speaker2: for godsakes why not?
speaker1: he knows greatness. i'm in the presence of greatness. i want to learn about greatness.
speaker2: greatness is overrated.
speaker1: maybe you're right, maybe you're right...
speaker2: so what do you want?

speaker1: i want to be in someone's arms tonight. 
speaker2: oh that. why do men have such a hard time saying what they want?

speaker1: wait, wait... don't drink too much. 
speaker2: ya think i won't be able to screw if i'm too drunk?
speaker1: well... yeah...
speaker2: screwed, stewed, and tattooed!
speaker1: c'mere... i want to hold you.
speaker2: you're so thoughtful -- the others are trying to get me drunk and you're trying to keep me sober. you'd be good husband material.
speaker1: not so fast --
speaker2: i didn't mean --
speaker1: come here.

speaker1: i'm not a whore. 
speaker2: shh, shh... i know, i know...
speaker3: you two-timing bastard! you judas iscariot! you stealing my girl! i'll kill you!
speaker2: she's not 'your' girl!
speaker1: what're you doing?!
speaker3: you're coming with me!
speaker1: i don't want to!

speaker1: what's this?! 
speaker2: my hair.
speaker1: put it back on.
speaker1: that's better.
speaker2: who are you again?
speaker1: i am the georgia peach. i have 4,191 base hits in 11,429 at- bats, 920 stolen bases, 2,244 runs scored, and 92 batting records... and i want you to undress.
speaker2: no.
speaker2: that don't scare me 'cause if you kill me i'll be dead and you ain't gonna screw a dead lady.
speaker1: i might.

speaker1: you're right. you might. 
speaker2: take your clothes off.
speaker2: you got big i like big
speaker1: they aren't so big. they're average, actually -- but these bras are great. push 'em right up there. i owe a lot to the bras and wigs. a girl needs what she needs --
speaker2: shut up. take it off.
speaker2: shy, huh? get on the bed.
speaker2: you're a beauty. roll over.
speaker3: terror and tears.
speaker1: mr. cobb, i --
speaker2: shut up.

speaker1: his eyes are full of fury and lust. 
speaker2: what i coulda done with you in my prime...
speaker3: i'm sure you --
speaker2: shut up!
speaker3: what do you want from me?!
speaker2: roll over.
speaker2: i want you to do exactly what i say...
speaker3: no...

speaker1: a thousand dollars... 
speaker2: do what you gotta do and get it over with, mr. cobb.
speaker1: i want you to tell everyone you meet that you me and i was the best you ever had.
speaker2: that's all?
speaker1: that's a lot.
speaker2: for a thousand bucks? yes.
speaker1: i'm looking at the most beautiful woman in the world, do you hear me?!
speaker1: and i'm dead down here! dead! nothing! and it's been like that for over two years! nothing! now get outta here before i hit you!
speaker2: georgia peach my -- georgia trash is what you are!

speaker1: she was a great piece of ass, stumpy, best i ever had... 
speaker2: good, good...
speaker1: have we missed the testimonial dinner?
speaker2: no we haven't, ty... now get some sleep...

speaker1: it was a baseball book and i kept it in the typewriter for him to discover and amend... it was a book i never planned to publish. 
speaker1: the second version, my version, was written on legal pads and hotel stationery and cocktail napkins and anything i could scrape together without drawing his attention... i kept my version in a box at the bottom of my suitcase --

speaker1: the whole thing had become an agonizing death watch, and most days i couldn't believe the son of a wouldn't die... 
speaker2: nothing like a cigarette girl and thirty hours of sleep to invigorate a man, stumpy! you look like
speaker1: been writing, ty...
speaker2: well let's see how we're doing...
speaker2: yes, it, stumpy, yes! now you're getting it! none of this sigmund freud baseball, stumpy, baseball! yes!
speaker2: you understand! people are no good but you're different! you're okay, stumpy, you get it! and i can trust you...
speaker2: now let's go roll us some dice, alimony, i feel a hot hand coming on!

speaker1: y'see how it works, stumpy... they boo ya your whole career, then when you're about to kiss off, they put ya on a pedestal. that's what being a legend's all about. 
speaker1: send the dice to the peach, boys, and belly up to the bar...
speaker1: stumpy, what is that?!

speaker1: my girl went for the nigger? 
speaker2: i think they're just next to each other by accident.
speaker1: mona! you with that nigger!
speaker3: he's crazy.
speaker4: i know.
speaker1: willie! is she with you?!

speaker1: this is my man, mr. cobb, and he's all man. 
speaker2: my girl with my nigger!
speaker3: she's not your girl and he's not your --
speaker4: he's got a gun.
speaker1: mr. cobb!
speaker5: get down!
speaker2: what is the world coming to?!
speaker3: we're leaving, we're leaving! there's no reason to press charges!
speaker2: do you know who i am?!
speaker6: you're a crazy old fool, that's who you are!

speaker1: back off, it! we're leaving! 
speaker2: where we going, stumpy, i wanta find us some more women!
speaker1: ty, ty, ty, calm down. it's time for the testimonial dinner! this stops cobb cold. he's immediately sober.

speaker1: y'know something, alimony, i believe you're the best friend i ever had. 
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker1: swear on a bible, stumpy -- i feel i can trust you now.
speaker3: deeply alarmed by this confession.
speaker2: i was disturbed, to say the least, that he felt we were friends -- but at least for the moment it made things bearable. and he started talking -- the world according to ty cobb...
speaker1: and then this fat named babe ruth came into the league and near destroyed the game of baseball... we all thought he was gonna eat and his way outta the league but he hung around for a few years --
speaker2: 'hung around'? he was -- -- next to you -- the greatest player of all time. he hit 714 home runs?!
speaker1: anybody can hit home runs. now excuse me, i got work to do...
speaker2: sorry, ty -- and cobb resumes into the tape recorder.

speaker1: i was drinking like a fish, smoking cigarettes again, and now lying about the hidden manuscript. and by writing two versions without telling him, i was becoming something cobb was not. i was becoming a liar. 
speaker2: fabulous stuff, stumpy, just brilliant. you're a genius.
speaker1: thanks, ty...
speaker2: i love reading about me.
speaker2: it, who's out there?

speaker1: as stump helps him shoot up. 
speaker2: i also became expert at finding his veins... which always revived him...

speaker1: somewhere along the way i'd gone from biographer to stenographer to chauffeur to nurse... i was the only thing keeping the alive... and i kept hoping he'd die. 
speaker2: y'know, stumpy, with a friend like you, i just might go on forever...
speaker2: where were we -- ohyeah -- then, at the age of 42, i batted .323 which was an embarrassment to me but would be a career for anyone else...
speaker1: until, by the grace of we arrived -- days, weeks, months later, i don't know -- in cooperstown, new york, for his beloved testimonial dinner...

speaker1: you're gonna meet great athletes, great warriors, great men at this hall of fame dinner, stumpy. none of this modern, pansy -- 
speaker2: i've been looking forward to this for a long time --
speaker1: you liar. you've been hoping i'd die first.
speaker2: you got me wrong.
speaker1: i got you right. but it's okay 'cause i need your help.
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker3: cobb here?
speaker2: why?
speaker3: i'm mickey cochrane.
speaker4: ty, it's mickey cochrane.
speaker1: where's your tux?
speaker5: i don't have one.
speaker1: i sent you money for it.

speaker1: it didn't arrive. 
speaker2: you drank it, you mean. you can't go to the hall of fame like that. i won't allow it.
speaker1: things have been rough, ty.
speaker2: there's two things a man should never do -- complain or explain. now go buy a tux!
speaker1: the stores are closed.
speaker2: how could you be so good behind the plate and so bad everywhere else!
speaker2: operator? what's the best men's shop in town. who owns it? jack who? gimme his home number. better yet, ring him up for me. jack?! this is ty cobb. go down to your shop and open it up and sell a tux to the great mickey cochrane. and sell him a cumberbund and a shirt and a bow tie and some cologne. he smells like what's the address? he'll be there in twenty minutes.
speaker2: it, mickey, ya gotta give a better effort.

speaker1: thanks, ty. 
speaker2: he's lost, stumpy, the poor man's been lost ever since he took a fastball in the ear.
speaker3: you take care of him?
speaker2: for years -- but that ain't goin' in the book.
speaker3: ty, why not?
speaker2: because it would embarrass him.
speaker2: i don't wanta take the cane tonight.
speaker3: you've got to have your cane.
speaker2: i don't have to have anything -- if you stay near me... in case i wobble or something... just a firm hand right here... that'll keep me upright. i'd appreciate it. now how do i look?
speaker3: you look like the greatest ballplayer of all time. you going to be okay?
speaker2: i'll be okay when i hear the crowd.

speaker1: the great left-handed pitcher from the new york giants, who struck out five men in a row in the 19-- all-star game -- carl hubbell. 
speaker1: the great third baseman from the chicago cubs, harold joseph 'pie' traynor...
speaker1: paul and lloyd waner, the waner brothers -- big poison and little poison -- from the pittsburgh pirates...
speaker1: fifty-eight home runs in a season -- mr. double-x -- the great jimmy foxx!
speaker1: and ladies and gentlemen, the highest lifetime batting average of all time, first man elected to the hall of fame, retired with over 90 batting records, the one and only georgia peach, ty cobb!

speaker1: your hand, stumpy, your hand! 
speaker1: thank you, my friend...
speaker2: hello, mr. cobb, good to see you again.

speaker1: sam crawford, ty, long time no see. 
speaker2: good to see you, sam. you doin' okay?
speaker1: i'm alive, ty, i'm alive...
speaker2: the boys'll get together later and have a little party, eh?
speaker1: be some parties tonight, peach...

speaker1: stumpy, meet rogers hornsby, next to me the greatest hitter of all time -- 
speaker2: how d'ya do. you're looking good, ty...
speaker1: i look like and you know it. we'll have a real smoker later, eh?
speaker2: ohyeah... we'll tear it up good...
speaker3: welcome to cooperstown, ladies and gentlemen. we're here to acknowledge the greatest ballplayers of all time, those men still gracing our presence who were among the earliest inductees into the hall of fame. waner, hubbell, foxx, cochrane, hornsby, traynor -- these are the giants, the old masters of our craft...
speaker3: but the greatest of all is with us tonight -- simply put, the best ballplayer ever -- tyrus raymond cobb.
speaker3: we have gathered from the archives some film on mr. cobb...

speaker1: this rare footage of ty cobb reflects his love of children, and they admired him by the thousands... 
speaker2: posing with kids in uniforms. he clowns with them, tousling their hair, knocking off their caps.
speaker1: on another occasion he partakes in a donkey baseball game, showing his not-so-well-known lighter side...
speaker2: on a donkey in a donkey baseball game.
speaker1: and here's cobb with two other immortals, babe ruth and tris speaker...
speaker1: cobb and speaker were great friends off the field, and of course were accused of fixing some games by pitcher dutch leonard...

speaker1: cobb and speaker were clearly involved with unsavory gamblers, but finally were acquitted by judge landis, though many questions remain unanswered -- 
speaker2: what the is this?!
speaker3: it's a great film --
speaker2: me and speaker and the fix?
speaker3: i think the medication's getting to you, ty -- i'm watching you run the bases.

speaker1: his ruthless competitive spirit has sometimes been called psychopathic... 
speaker2: al, what are you seeing?
speaker3: your batting stroke.

speaker1: in an infamous incident on august xx, 19xx, cobb attacked a heckler who turned out to have no arms or legs, and was briefly suspended for the incident... 
speaker2: stumpy, what's going on?
speaker3: ty, i think you're not well -- i'll take you back to the motel.
speaker2: what're you seeing?
speaker3: you and connie mack.

speaker1: crawford and foxx have something cooking in room 212 -- 
speaker2: over here, ty.
speaker1: i never partied with these boys but they had a reputation.
speaker3: they knock. jimmy foxx opens the door a crack.
speaker4: ty.
speaker1: you got some booze?
speaker4: no.

speaker1: i do. who's in there? 
speaker2: me, sam and pie.
speaker1: got any women in there?
speaker2: sure do.
speaker1: me and stumpy want some action.
speaker2: wanta meet some great broads?
speaker1: we're ready.

speaker1: hello, ty. you know my wife, lillian? 
speaker2: and this is mrs. traynor.
speaker3: pearl, meet ty cobb and --
speaker4: al stump.

speaker1: hello, ladies. 
speaker2: hornsby's got something on the third floor -- maybe more what you're looking for.

speaker1: there it is! 
speaker2: you sure you're up for this?
speaker1: i've never been readier!
speaker1: rajah!
speaker3: you ain't comin' in, ty.
speaker1: it's me! an' stumpy here!
speaker3: you're a and you ain't coming to our party.
speaker1: who's in there?!

speaker1: me and mickey an' a coupla broads. 
speaker2: let me talk to mickey.
speaker3: ty...
speaker2: ya look good in that tux, mick.
speaker3: i can't let ya in, ty. it's rogers' party. i'm an invited guest.
speaker2: it, let me in!
speaker2: presidents of the united states of america used to invite me to the white house to drink their scotch and smoke their cigars and their women.
speaker4: let's go to the motel, ty...
speaker2: let me in, it! i invented this game! let me in!
speaker4: let's go home, ty, this isn't a good place to be...
speaker2: i fought for players' rights and salary increases and unions while all you crawled around on your knees begging massa' for bread crumbs just thankful for a job!

speaker1: open up, it! ballplayers can make big money but they're too stupid! you're all too stupid! the with ya! 
speaker1: take me back to the hall!

speaker1: i appreciate your coming. 
speaker2: for mr. cobb, no problem.

speaker1: what did you see on that film tonight? 
speaker2: i saw ty cobb playing baseball.
speaker1: that's all?
speaker2: that's all.
speaker1: i was raised in the baptist church but i know that heaven is just the ol' oskefagus -- the change-up. you swing from your 'cause you think life is a fastball down the middle and after your bat has crossed the plate and you're all off balance and looking stupid, the ball just kinda flutters across home, slow and juicy and hittable, and as it crosses the plate, the ball looks at you and smiles a nasty smile and laughs its way into the catcher's mitt... we don't just lose -- we're made fools of.
speaker2: you were the best.
speaker1: save the romance for the book... ... and take me home to georgia.

speaker1: cobb parted with some of his hard- earned money and rented a limo in order to make what he called a 'grand re-entrance to his beloved home town of royston...' cobb marks the margin of the manuscript. 
speaker1: he loved the manuscript, as well he should -- it made him out to be a saint -- cobb looks up from the manuscript.
speaker2: greatest biography ever written --
speaker1: the book, like cobb, was almost finished. but he was dying slower than i was writing, and like everything else, he viewed it as a competition that he was not going to lose.
speaker3: sweating, pale, hanging on. a grim smile.
speaker1: to me, we weren't riding to georgia in a limo... we were riding in a hearse...

speaker1: paint chipped and faded. 
speaker2: we're here. and the sign needs paint.

speaker1: they look kinda the same... 
speaker2: when's the last time you saw her?
speaker1: about fifteen years ago. but she understands me... there! no... damn....

speaker1: maybe she moved. 
speaker2: there! i think...
speaker3: like the others.
speaker4: stops nearby.
speaker1: i'll see if it's her. wait here.

speaker1: that's me. 
speaker2: i have your brother in the car.
speaker1: tyrus?
speaker2: yes. and he'd like to see you.

speaker1: i don't wish to see him. 
speaker2: it's been a long time, he said.
speaker1: i have nothing to say to him, and wish to hear nothing he has to say to me.
speaker2: i know there's been problems, but the family is very important to him.
speaker1: young man, the family he talks about never existed.
speaker2: he loved his father.
speaker1: if his father, if my father, was such a great man, why did tyrus turn out to be so evil?
speaker2: he's dying. he just wants to see you.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: it wasn't your sister. the woman in the house said your sister moved a long time ago... she doesn't know where.
speaker1: you liar. my sister doesn't want to see me and you're lying.
speaker2: liar?! a liar?! of course i'm a liar! that's what i'm paid to do, isn't it?! lie about ty cobb?!
speaker1: if you didn't like the job, why didn't you quit?
speaker2: who would take care of you?
speaker1: don't give me the sob-sister routine.
speaker2: i listen to your bullshit, i interpret and shape and find words for your and you give me nothing but grief!

speaker1: you love being this close to greatness! 
speaker2: stop the car!

speaker1: i wish you'd die! 
speaker2: i will, stumpy, i will...
speaker1: and go to hell!
speaker2: oh, i'll do that, too. and look how convenient you've made it.
speaker1: that was your sister alright, and she didn't want anything to do with you either!
speaker2: i forgive her.

speaker1: you forgive her?! that's rich! 
speaker2: forgiveness is crucial to human maturity and religious growth.
speaker1: religious growth?!
speaker2: we all need to forgive more, al... you oughta try it. you're too angry. you're all pent up.
speaker1: i'm angry?
speaker2: are you angry because i discovered you were a whore? is that it, alimony?
speaker1: i'm angry?!
speaker2: is it the divorce? you gotta let go of it...
speaker1: i love her! i don't want a divorce!
speaker2: sure ya do. you're just so used to accommodating people that you don't know what you want anymore. i accommodate nobody.
speaker1: but you have no friends!

speaker1: do you? who are they?! those drunken hacks you hang out with who all think they're gonna write the great american novel but all they're gonna ever do is and moan and write lousy leads about high school football games? how about the brunette in the courtyard? is she your friend? i heard she everybody -- she must be everybody's friend! 
speaker1: i'm glad we're here -- i was gonna bring you here anyway sooner or later --
speaker2: which cobb of georgia is that?
speaker1: that is me.

speaker1: when i die, my mother and father will be moved in here and, in time, my dear sister, florence will join us as well. the family will be together again. 
speaker2: under one roof? that's romantic! you want that in the book? ty cobb brings the family together at last to enter the gates of heaven whole!
speaker1: you mock my family -- you mock me.
speaker1: my father was a great man!
speaker2: then why are you such a bastard?
speaker1: being a is a small price to pay for greatness. i, too, am a great man.
speaker2: let me go!
speaker1: my mother didn't kill my father.
speaker2: what're you talking about?
speaker1: my father told my mother he was leaving town for the weekend but he came back to the edge of the woods where he tied up his horse...

speaker1: because my mother did not kill my father. 
speaker1: my mother's lover killed my father.
speaker2: on his back staring up at his mother's lover.
speaker1: the last thing my father saw was the face of the man his wife!

speaker1: i don't want to be your friend! i don't want to feel sorry for you! so your mother's lover blew your father's head off! i don't care. you were a before it happened, you were a after it happened, you've been a ever since, and you're a now! 
speaker2: public relations are overrated.
speaker1: what the hell're you talking about?
speaker2: you need a drink.
speaker1: the drink!
speaker2: you're too angry, al, you just gotta learn to let it out.
speaker1: i'm gonna tell the truth about you, cobb! i'm gonna tell the world you hate women, jews, and niggers!
speaker2: you shouldn't use the word 'nigger', stumpy, it's racist and demeaning. and i don't hate women -- i'm just not very good with 'em, which puts me in the same boat with you and every other man i know.

speaker1: you treat people like dirt! 
speaker2: the children of america need heroes, al, you know that...
speaker1: get your hands off me!
speaker2: c'mon, al... you're making a fool of yourself out here. it's not dignified... come in out of the rain...

speaker1: either my father was... inadequate ... for my mother... he was not the man i thought he was... not a great man... not even a good man... ... or my mother was... trash... a common whore... it's that simple, isn't it? 
speaker1: as a boy i stood in court next to her because suddenly i was the man of the house but as i stood there steadfastly by her side and heard the jury say 'not guilty' i knew she'd been with another man the night of the killing.
speaker1: a man must defend his mother at all times, isn't that right, al?
speaker2: a man must defend his mother at all times.
speaker1: that's what i thought...
speaker3: al stump?
speaker1: in here.

speaker1: mr. al stump? 
speaker1: i've been chasing you all over the country -- -- i'm here to serve you papers.
speaker2: papers?
speaker3: i'm afraid it's divorce, stumpy.
speaker1: you're being sued for divorce.
speaker2: but my wife and i are still talking?!
speaker3: yeah, and what she's saying is 'fuck you.'
speaker2: me? well her. no, him.
speaker2: you ain't serving me no papers.
speaker1: i'm just doing a job.
speaker2: i love my wife.
speaker3: we all loved our wives, al, that's got nothing to do with it.

speaker1: you'll find somebody else. 
speaker2: there's a million broads out there, stumpy -- put down the gun.
speaker3: i am not going to accommodate this man, tyrus.
speaker2: you're all mixed up. give me the gun.
speaker3: you're absolutely right, tyrus, i've been accommodating people my whole life and it stops right here. you've killed a man. i'll kill a man. kablam! kablam! he misses again.
speaker1: no! please, dear i have a family, too!
speaker3: don't give me that sob-sister stuff!
speaker2: al... no... al... al...

speaker1: life is too short to be diplomatic. a man's friends don't care what he says or does. you're my friend, ty, right? you're my friend! 
speaker2: no!
speaker3: you're crazy! no wonder she wants to divorce you! you're crazy!
speaker1: i almost killed a man.
speaker2: a little drunken excess...
speaker1: no. i put a gun to a man's head and pulled the trigger. i wanted to kill him.
speaker2: it's forgotten already. i saw nothing. nothing happened.
speaker1: yes it did.
speaker2: al, listen to me.

speaker1: if i was hired to write a biography of the greatest sportswriter of our time -- a biography of al stump -- would i include what happened tonight? attorneys are pigs -- divorce attorneys are lower than pigs. what happened tonight was private. an intimacy. your own business. our own business. nobody else's. it wouldn't belong in a book about greatness. 
speaker2: nobody's gonna write my biography.
speaker1: and when the brunette in the courtyard brushed against you, i know what happened, al. a warm summer breeze, the smell of jasmine, her black hair against a white blouse -- you came to life again, you got hard -- and when you saw her naked it was more than you could bear... it's okay, al, it's okay... the brunette ain't gonna be in the book either...
speaker1: and the drinking? well, they used to say ol' ty had a drinking problem but you can booze me right under the table right now... no problem... and nobody's business, either...
speaker2: i get it... i get it...
speaker1: then get some sleep. you look pathetic.

speaker1: oblivious in a drunken sleep. 
speaker2: rage is in his eyes. he the gun.
speaker2: he's crying. he shakes his head.
speaker3: you don't have a point of view, stumpy, you ain't worth killing...
speaker4: something's not right.
speaker3: dear

speaker1: as he stares into the mirror. 
speaker2: no... no... no... this can't be... absolutely not... this is not right...
speaker2: stumpy?! no...
speaker2: our father, which art in heaven, hallowed by thy name. thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive -- aw, it... little late for that sob sister stuff...
speaker2: ... so this is what it feels like...

speaker1: ty. tyrus. peach... 
speaker2: is empty and still neatly made.

speaker1: three holes of broken plaster and mirror. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: 'dear alimony, you lying -- i'm checking myself into the hospital. i think the end is near. your pal, ty.' 
speaker2: deeply alarmed.

speaker1: get the outta here! you call this a hospital?! you call this food?! you know who i am?! 
speaker2: ... mr. cobb.
speaker3: be careful. he's got a gun and we haven't been able to get it away from him.
speaker2: i know, i know...
speaker4: he doesn't want visitors.

speaker1: excuse me, sir, but i need to draw some more blood. 
speaker2: put a bucket under my chin and i'll cough up a couple pints for ya.
speaker1: i have to do it this way.
speaker2: well don't poke around too long.
speaker2: she's a nice piece of ass, eh, stumpy? you come back later and climb on the big fella?
speaker1: it's against regulations, sir.
speaker3: so you read the book.
speaker2: yeah, it, i thought i could trust you -- i used to be able to figure out people better.
speaker3: that book is the truth.
speaker2: you're a romantic! the truth is a whore! just like you and just like my mother!
speaker4: a mr. barton is here to see you. he says he's the chairman of the board of coca cola.
speaker2: tell the son of a to go downstairs and have a pepsi -- i got no time for business.

speaker1: i need to take your blood pressure, sir. 
speaker2: it's high. what else you need to know?
speaker1: i have to do it.
speaker3: mr. cobb. we cannot allow you to have a gun in here.
speaker2: come and get it.
speaker2: y'know, stumpy, my oldest son was a doctor -- a hacksaw artist, that's all they are -- he died of a brain tumor when he was forty -- hadn't spoke to me in fifteen years 'cause i was such a rotten father -- put that in your book!
speaker2: bad, ain't it?

speaker1: i don't know which version of your life i'm going to publish. i really don't. 
speaker2: there ya go again! accommodating me and you don't have to! i died faster than you could write!
speaker2: get the outta here! everybody but stumpy! out!
speaker2: you fooled me, stumpy, nobody ever fooled me but you pulled it off! i thought we were pals!
speaker1: i didn't know what i was getting into with this job.
speaker2: quit explaining yourself! stand by your convictions! you beat the great ty cobb! i respect that! but if you print it -- print it all! my second son weighed 300 pounds and he died of a heart attack in the arms of a in paso robles. my other son i lost all track of and my two daughters won't speak to me and my two ex- wives won't and my siter you know won't! print it all! and ty cobb can't get it up anymore! print that too!
speaker1: it's all... confusing...

speaker1: it's not! it's simple! you won! tell the world that the greatest ballplayer who ever lived was also the biggest bastard! who cares now?! i give you permission and my blessing! from here on it's your story! 
speaker2: here's a little something might help.
speaker1: where's my money?
speaker2: right here, peach... next to your gun.
speaker1: stumpy, there's nothing wrong with wanting glory. now get the outta here.

speaker1: what about the gun? did you get it? 
speaker2: naw, i didn't get the gun...
speaker3: rushing back into cobb's room. and --

speaker1: and on july 17, 1961... ty cobb died quietly in his sleep. i don't believe it was quiet, nothing he did was quiet, but that's what the newspaper writer said who wrote the lead and we all know that writers never lie... 
speaker2: 'there is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from emmanuel's veins...'

speaker1: somebody hired a singer... 
speaker2: 'and sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains...'
speaker1: ... but it was the grimmest funeral service i'd ever seen.
speaker1: he left all his money to his family, though no members of it managed to attend the funeral, and with the rest he founded a hospital in his own name and an educational trust fund for poor georgia children.

speaker1: in dark suits drop flowers on the coffin. 
speaker2: only three ballplayers attended the service -- three oldtimers who he'd been supporting financially for many years, a fact he didn't want made public.

speaker1: an' the drunk says, 'i know, i was talking to the duck.' 
speaker1: al!
speaker2: stranger! another round on me!
speaker3: long time no see, etc...
speaker4: good to see you guys... how's it goin'? alan, how's that novel coming? must be about done by now?
speaker5: uh, actually, i haven't started it yet... been kinda busy...
speaker1: we all been busy...
speaker4: yeah, i know how it is...
speaker2: we read that cobb died.
speaker4: yeah... finally gave up the ghost.
speaker2: so? what was he like?
speaker5: were the stories true or were they exaggerated?

speaker1: tell us the truth, man, was he a monster? 
speaker2: or was he just one of the guys?
speaker3: the truth?
speaker4: ohyeah, the absolute truth, no bullshit, give it to us straight, etc...
speaker3: the truth?
speaker3: a prince and a great man has fallen.
speaker4: yes, awright, we knew it...
speaker2: helluva guy, eh?
speaker3: a helluva guy, a great man, a misunderstood artist, a fierce competitor but a sweet man at heart... a gentle soul...

