speaker1: mama, my story. 
speaker2: again?
speaker1: tell me.
speaker2: your father had been very ill, we thought he would die, and some animals had died.
speaker1: cow.
speaker2: and a yak. and chickens. and we had four years of bad crops, all the farmers did.
speaker2: in the night, i knew you were coming.
speaker2: at dawn, you were born.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker2: you were a beautiful baby.

speaker1: no cried? 
speaker2: maybe, just a little.
speaker2: and that day, your father got better. he named you lhamo.
speaker1: i know. silence.

speaker1: me. 
speaker2: no. this must stop.
speaker1: me. here.
speaker2: i am the father. you sit there.
speaker1: me here.
speaker3: what is the harm?
speaker2: he will grow up all wrong. only you can serve him, only you can wash his bowl. too tidy, everything just so.
speaker4: he thinks he is king here.
speaker3: what is the harm?

speaker1: i go away. look, mama, i go away. far, far, far. 
speaker2: oh, no. where will he go?
speaker1: far, far away.

speaker1: good day. 
speaker2: good day.
speaker1: please, come in, so cold.
speaker2: we are traveling to lhasa. may we...?
speaker1: of course, please, this way.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: mine.
speaker3: mine.
speaker4: mine.
speaker3: please.
speaker4: i will give it to, if you can tell me who i am.
speaker3: the lama of sera. you come.
speaker1: lhamo, no.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker3: wait! no!
speaker3: me, too. me go, too. lhasa!
speaker1: no, no, no. lhasa! he always says he will travel far away. he always wants to go.
speaker4: we cannot, young master.
speaker3: you come back?
speaker4: we will.

speaker1: say, kumbum monastery. 
speaker2: kumbum. it is not far away.
speaker1: it is not far at all, and it is a beautiful place. and your big brother is abbott there. you will not be alone.
speaker2: i will be very smart.
speaker1: you will be fine.

speaker1: your father had been very sick. he had been sick from the time you began growing in me. 
speaker2: cow.
speaker1: yes. a cow had died. one night, you stopped all your moving, and i said to your sister, "his time has come."
speaker2: me. first break of day.
speaker1: at dawn, you were born. one eye was closed, and your sister opened it with her thumb. we gave you the sweet drink.
speaker2: i pooped.
speaker1: you did. we washed you and wrapped you in sheepskin and took you to your father. that day he father got better and that day, a pair of crows came to nest in our roof. i just remembered.
speaker2: i miss my brother.
speaker1: i miss him too.

speaker1: i am the lama of sera. 
speaker2: sera monastery? from lhasa?
speaker1: yes. we have business here.
speaker3: this is yours, you say. what else belongs to you?
speaker3: yes, those are yours.
speaker3: with permission?
speaker3: "kundun"
speaker3: he is the presence.
speaker2: my oldest boy is an incarnation.
speaker3: so is your youngest.
speaker3: i wish you long life.

speaker1: i will be back in a few days. 
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: two.
speaker2: this many?
speaker1: yes, yes. your brothers are here.
speaker1: one more kiss.

speaker1: "may i be the doctor and the medicine, and may i be the nurse, for all sick beings in the world, until everyone is healed." 
speaker2: i want him accompanied by my chinese soldiers.
speaker3: this is tibet. we are not under your authority.
speaker2: i want one hundred thousand chinese dollars, if you want the boy.
speaker4: but why? who is lhamo? who do they say he is? her husband does not know.

speaker1: "may i be a bridge, a boat, a ship for all who wish to cross the water." lhamo looks down at the complicated words. 
speaker1: can you recite?

speaker1: you have all the room. 
speaker2: don't be a baby, move over.
speaker1: you move.
speaker2: you! you think you are so big!

speaker1: who am i? 
speaker2: we do not know.

speaker1: chenrezi, the buddha of compassion. the wish fulfilling jewel. the fourteenth dalai lama. 
speaker1: long life.
speaker2: long life.
speaker3: long life.
speaker4: long life, lhamo. we hear the sound of a great, tibetan horn.

speaker1: centuries ago, a young boy was born. his name was gedundrub. the night of his birth, robbers came to his home and his family fled hiding the baby in a cattle pen. when they returned the next day, the baby was safe. they found him guarded by a pair of black crows. he was the first dalai lama. the living buddha of compassion. now, you have chosen to come back to this life once again. 
speaker1: we name you tenzin gyatso.
speaker1: your job is simple. you are to love all living things. just love them. care for them. have compassion for them. "as long as any living thing draws breath, wherever he shall be, there in compassion, shall the buddha appear, incarnate."

speaker1: fifth dalai lama. the boy looks. 
speaker2: seventh dalai lama. tenzin gyatso nods.
speaker1: thirteenth dalai lama. the boy looks at the photo.
speaker1: fourteenth dalai lama.

speaker1: my name is norbu, holiness. i will be good, you be bad. 
speaker2: i'm on a big mountain and hitting at the bad men. and after the game, we're going to trade. you just stay over there, no, there!, norbu, and i will shoot at you. i want your land. i take it.
speaker1: i am braver.
speaker2: i have more men. norbu thundrup i have smarter men.
speaker1: today you lose. tomorrow you may win.
speaker1: things change, kundun.
speaker2: why is your beard so funny? let me touch this. tenzin touches the soft, bald, chin of norbu.
speaker2: soft.

speaker1: we note this. now, the chinese. 
speaker1: the allies wish to build a supply- road from india, crossing tibet, as part of their war effort. the road would lead directly to china.
speaker2: we cannot allow it. right now, we have a only a small chinese mission in lhasa, the first since the thirteenth dalai lama threw them out in 1912. the road would increase the size of that mission. the chinese would try to control our trade, as they did once before, control our contact with the outside world.

speaker1: kundun! kundun! 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: ah, it is a telescope, holiness.
speaker2: and, is it mine?
speaker4: these are all gifts sent to your predecessors.
speaker5: yes! then it is yours!
speaker2: i need it.

speaker1: she carried a basket in her arms, a big, heavy basket, and the old monk cautiously approached. she opened her basket and showed what she had. heads. human heads. only the heads. 
speaker2: is that true or pretend?
speaker1: it is a story, you decide.
speaker2: pretend.
speaker1: as you say.
speaker2: "i be an island for those who seek one, a lamp for light."
speaker2: "may i be a bed for all who wish to rest, and a slave for all who want a slave."
speaker2: "may i be wishing jewel, a magic vase...

speaker1: i want to go down there. 
speaker2: you can only go with attendants and a big ceremony.
speaker1: i want to run down the street. i want to buy a toy. eat from the shops.
speaker2: you cannot.
speaker1: i want to be a shepherd, taking those goats and cows out to the hillside.
speaker2: but you are not a shepherd, you are the dalai lama.
speaker1: maybe in the next life, the world will not need a dalai lama. nornu thundrup i would not know. maybe.

speaker1: the dalai lama is not supposed to eat pork. it is not good for your brain. 
speaker2: i am sorry, lhamo.
speaker3: it is alright, father.
speaker4: kundun, you must come back now.
speaker3: go away.
speaker2: not the way to talk to people.
speaker3: can i do anything i want?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: but, i am in charge.
speaker2: are you? of whom?
speaker3: can i save the sheep from going to the market? so they don't die.
speaker5: you could buy them.
speaker3: do i have money?
speaker5: what do you think?
speaker3: do you have money?
speaker2: i do, now.
speaker3: and you have horses?
speaker2: i do, beautiful horses.
speaker3: will you buy the sheep for me?
speaker2: where will you keep them?
speaker3: here. we'll collect them.
speaker2: i will buy them for you.
speaker3: can i free the prisoners?
speaker2: hmmm.
speaker5: you can't do anything real until you are dalai lama.
speaker3: i am him.
speaker5: not until you are eighteen.
speaker6: you have escaped once more.
speaker5: go study. i get in trouble if you do not study.
speaker5: i do.
speaker2: sometimes you strike the goat, to scare the sheep.
speaker5: i am the goat.
speaker2: he will not be ours much longer.

speaker1: i have news. the regent has resigned his post. 
speaker2: is he a bad man? norbu says he is "lavish" and "willful". "how can he give you monk's vows if he has not kept them himself?"
speaker1: well, some say. it's not for you to worry about.
speaker2: he was always nice to me. he found me. he saw me in his dreams.

speaker1: i turn you over again, today, lhamo. one day, you will not be able to come running to us. 
speaker2: but you will always be here?
speaker1: me?
speaker2: you will always!
speaker1: i have one more piece of news. a baby is coming.
speaker2: oh, mama! who will it be?
speaker1: oh, no! who can it be?

speaker1: my teeth! my teeth are in here! 
speaker1: my old teeth!

speaker1: "i take refuge in the three jewels, the buddha, the dharma and the sangra." 
speaker2: you recite! you recite!
speaker1: "i take refuge in the three jewels, the buddha, the dharma and the sangra."
speaker1: "until i attain enlightenment."
speaker2: i would like you to be my new regent. taktra stops. he nods to the boy.

speaker1: the four noble truths. 
speaker2: the four noble truths, as taught by the lord sakyamuni buddha are: the truth of suffering the truth of the cause of suffering, the truth of the cessation of suffering, the truth of the way which leads to the cessation of suffering.
speaker1: i accept it.
speaker2: true suffering arises from contaminated actions and afflictions. birth, illness, grief, old age, poverty, pain, death - these are surferings.
speaker1: i accept it.
speaker2: the causes of suffering arise from true sources. attachment, desire, envy, hatred, greed, unkindness, wrong view and so forth - these are some causes of suffering.

speaker1: how does one progress from the realization of one noble truth to another? 
speaker2: we will have to think about that.
speaker2: i need to squeeze this brain.
speaker1: answer. a pause, and then:
speaker2: when one understands that he causes some of his own suffering, needlessly, then he looks for the causes in his own life. and when and he looks for those causes, when he investigates, then he is putting confidence in his own ability to eliminate the sources and end the suffering. a wish to find a path to peace arises. for all beings desire happiness. all wish to find their purest selves. ling nods in approval.
speaker1: i accept it.

speaker1: careful! careful! 
speaker2: i need to jump!

speaker1: oh, nicely done, norbu. i will get you. 
speaker2: may i listen to the news with you, holiness?
speaker1: please.
speaker1: how big is tibet's army?
speaker3: roughly five thousand men.
speaker1: is that big?
speaker2: no. not very big.
speaker1: the regent is adding men. and he bought rifles and ammunition from india. mountain guns, too.
speaker1: will we be in this war?
speaker2: no. this war is almost over.
speaker1: will we ever be in war?
speaker4: we have enemies.
speaker1: the chinese.
speaker4: yes.
speaker1: but, surely, we are safe in tibet.
speaker2: no, we don't.
speaker1: this is britain.
speaker4: ahh.
speaker1: where is poland?
speaker1: where is pearl harbor?
speaker2: in the pacific ocean. it is an island. american territory.
speaker1: where is alsace?
speaker2: i do not know, holiness.
speaker1: this is tibet.
speaker4: ahh.
speaker1: certainly, we are safe in tibet. no one answers.
speaker4: we hope, kundun.
speaker1: what was the warning of the thirteenth dalai lama?
speaker2: he warned about the future of tibet.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker2: when it is time.

speaker1: patience is the first of the six perfections. 
speaker1: one day, we will get that automobile running.

speaker1: "to be born in a time when the buddha has appeared. to be born in a time when the buddha has taught. to be born when the teaching of buddha is alive." 
speaker1: "to be born where the dharma is practiced. to be born in a time when people have compassion for other people."
speaker2: how is human life precious?
speaker1: as a result of previous karma, you have obtained this human life. by means of this rebirth, through work and study, you can attain all everlasting happiness. in the words of shantideva: "with the boat of this precious life, you can cross the waters of samsara. how rare to find this boat!" "oh, ignorant one, do not fall asleep now!" shots ring out.
speaker3: sera, sera monastery. reting. under arrest. the army is taking him right past sera! monastery! those crazy monks! have been threatening trouble. reting tried to assassinate taktra rinpoche.

speaker1: it's the army, firing on sera monastery! oh, no! oh, no! 
speaker1: why is this? what is happening?
speaker2: reting rinpoche has been arrested. he tried to overthrow regent taktra. today, he is brought back to lhasa by government officials. the monks at sera monastery have been on his side. now, there is trouble between them and the army.
speaker3: i am sorry for you to have to witness this, kundun.
speaker1: look here!
speaker3: tragic. unnecessary.
speaker3: holiness? i have a letter.
speaker3: the thirteenth dalai lama's warning. he wrote to you, the year before he died. the year before you were born.

speaker1: "it may happen, that here in tibet, religion and government will be attacked both from without and within. unless we guard our own country..." 
speaker1: "...it will now happen that the dalai and panchen lamas, the father and the son, and all the revered holders of the faith, will disappear and become nameless."
speaker1: "monks and their monasteries will be destroyed. the rule of law will be weakened. the lands and properties will be seized. they themselves will be forced to serve their enemies or wander the country like beggars." "all beings will be sunk in great hardship and overwhelming fear; the days and nights will drag on slowly in suffering." he is finished.
speaker2: what can i do? i am only a boy.
speaker1: you are the man who wrote this letter. you are the man who has come back to lead us. you will soon have great responsibilities. you must know what to do.
speaker3: you remember who you are. you called for them.

speaker1: taktra rinpoche, i understand there was an attempt on your life. 
speaker2: it is possible, holiness.
speaker1: you are unharmed?
speaker2: completely.
speaker1: good. where is reting rinpoche now?
speaker3: he has been imprisoned, here in the potala, holiness.
speaker1: the sera monks have surrendered?
speaker3: it is calm.
speaker1: please, have tea.
speaker1: i need to know what you know. i am no longer a child.
speaker4: ask whatever you will.
speaker1: what is the danger from the chinese, now?
speaker3: very complicated, holiness. let me tell you current news. the chinese have launched a deceptive campaign aimed at convincing the world that tibet belongs to china. we sent a mission to the chinese national conference. our attendance was a grave mistake. the tibetans were introduced as delegates from the "chinese region of tibet". we protested this reference and demanded a letter rebutting it.
speaker1: did you receive the letter?
speaker3: we did not.
speaker4: the war is over. this is a time in when nations are redefining themselves.
speaker1: so, tibet, too, needs to define itself.
speaker4: yes. as a free country. but our attempts have proven futile. we continue to be badly outmaneuvered by the chinese.
speaker1: can india help us?
speaker4: india is a newly independent nation. they are struggling. india is in no position to help us.
speaker1: britain?
speaker4: britain chooses not to.
speaker1: and, america?
speaker4: america, we shall see.
speaker1: ask the chinese mission to leave our country. immediately.
speaker4: quite simple. yes. good.
speaker1: i shall send a letter to america, to the president, informing him of our problem.
speaker1: i want reting rinpoche well cared for. he is my teacher. he found me.

speaker1: listen to this, norbu. : to mr truman 
speaker2: reting rinpoche has died in prison.

speaker1: now, as his great army, stands idle on our borders, chairman mao has presented tibet with three demands: one, tibet must accept that it is part of china. 
speaker1: two, tibet's defenses must be handled by china. three, all political and trade matters concerning foreign countries must be conducted through china.
speaker2: give the dalai lama his majority!
speaker3: we can concede that tibet is a part of china if we can guarantee that the dalai lama's name and authority will remain...
speaker1: and do you believe that the tibetan government will be allowed to continue to function as it is? do you believe that our religion will be protected?
speaker4: give the dalai lama his majority!
speaker3: we have dealt with this chinese obsession for hundreds of years.
speaker1: these are not the chinese we know.
speaker4: make him dalai lama now!

speaker1: if we agree that we are part of china, nothing else will matter. not trade, not defense. we will be lost. 
speaker2: what would you do, holiness? the boy looks out over the water.
speaker1: what should i do about my doubt, teacher?
speaker2: it is a difficult situation.
speaker1: i mean, my doubt. why me?
speaker2: doubt is an affliction. reliquish it. accept.
speaker1: i believe we must make no concesions to the chinese. but, i am one voice. the dalai lama has always trusted in the forces of buddha. let us consult the protective deities. taktra rinpoche bows and leaves him.

speaker1: enter. 
speaker2: summon the lord chamberlain and the kashag.
speaker3: enter.
speaker4: holiness.
speaker3: yes.
speaker4: the chinese have invaded.

speaker1: they crossed the river, holiness. they have invaded in six locations, chando province, kham, eastern tibet. 
speaker2: what is the size of our army, now?
speaker1: eight thousand, five hundred, soldiers and officers. we have recently requested mortars, anti-aircraft guns and ammunition from india. we have several hundred in the area.
speaker2: has anyone died?
speaker3: the radio contact said one officer had died. then he said, "the chinese soldiers - they are coming." and then, the radio went dead.
speaker2: one man. a man has died.

speaker1: "this week, the people's liberation army crossed the drichu river east of chamdo and began the peaceful liberation of tibet. tibet is in the hands of imperialist enemies of the people. the dalai lama, a foolish reminder of an illiterate past, is the figure head of this autonomous region of china. accept our help, tibet! the people shall be free!" 
speaker2: what do the people say, norbu?
speaker3: tibetan officials have retreated from chamdo. they are scared and running. the chinese strategy has destroyed the heart of our defense forces. chamdo falls, several other villages are lost. you know what happens. the road to lhasa will be wide open.
speaker3: the people want you made dalai lama.
speaker2: then, i am lucky.
speaker3: these are dangerous times. they want the dalai lama to lead them.
speaker2: but, i have no experience.
speaker3: oh, but you do, kundun.

speaker1: "to the members of the united nations: the attention of the world is riveted on korea where aggression is being resisted by an international force. similar happenings in remote tibet are passing without notice. the problem is not of tibet's own making but is largely the outcome of unthwarted chinese ambition to bring weaker nations on her periphery within her active domination." this is very good. quite strong. 
speaker1: "tibetans have for long lived a cloistered life in their mountain fastness, remote and aloof..."

speaker1: i was never alone. two chinese were with me every minute of the day. 
speaker1: their talk is always of liberation and helpfulness. they put their words like honey on a knife, but if you lick the honey, you will bleed.
speaker2: tell me.
speaker1: they think they have convinced me. they think i am on their side. they have allowed me to leave kumbum and come to lhasa believing that i will try to turn you to their ways. if i do not succeed, i am to eliminate you.
speaker2: you, kill me?
speaker1: eliminate you.
speaker3: i can be governor of lhasa, they say.
speaker1: don't eat all those sweets.
speaker2: do you remember the day i came to your monastery, when i was a baby?
speaker1: i do.
speaker2: i remember, too, actually. i was frightened then.
speaker1: the chinese have one goal. the complete dissolution of our nation. the destruction of our culture. there is no room for buddha in their world.
speaker2: we cannot.
speaker1: this is not a fight to put bread just in one's own mouth.
speaker2: buddha teaches that we must learn from our enemy. we have compassion for all people.
speaker1: these are not human beings. they are worse than ghosts.
speaker1: you are in great danger. the dalai lama cannot fall into chinese hands.
speaker2: how could i ever leave?
speaker1: it may not be your decision to make.

speaker1: we have telegraphed our appeal to the united nations and await its reply. i am sending a delegation to china to negotiate the chinese withdrawal. 
speaker1: it seems that i must depart lhasa. the majority wills it. lukhangwa and lobsang tashi?
speaker1: i am making you my prime ministers. you will stay here. you must always keep me informed, no matter how bad the news. i want plain information.
speaker1: today, i declare a general amnesty. i have always wanted to free the prisoners.

speaker1: it's time to take this down. 
speaker2: you will not come?
speaker1: no, holiness.
speaker2: am i running away?
speaker1: the people will cry when they learn you are gone. but they would all want you safe.
speaker1: let me take this.
speaker1: you must study very hard, do not neglect the holy things during this time.
speaker2: i will miss you.
speaker1: we have had fun, you and i. fun for a little boy in an old palace.
speaker2: we have.
speaker1: you have grown up very good.
speaker2: and you have grown older and your chin has grown balder.
speaker1: tonight, kundun, you see the world. you place your feet on the shepherd boy's path.
speaker1: "the gods will be avenged."

speaker1: we must go, holiness. 
speaker2: a moment.
speaker1: please, come, holiness.
speaker2: yes. i am ready.
speaker2: safe journey. safe return. i am him.

speaker1: do not let him go! 
speaker2: he goes for a short time, until the danger can be determined. he will not leave tibet. he will return.
speaker2: he will return. the precious one will not abandon you.

speaker1: all quiet? 
speaker2: yes, holiness.
speaker1: where are you from?
speaker2: kham, holiness.
speaker1: your people are very brave. they are fighting the chinese. no one can stop them.
speaker2: khambas are wild men.
speaker1: i worry about them.
speaker2: do not worry, holiness. they fight for you. they are under your protection.

speaker1: eighteen children. 
speaker2: eighteen, wonderful.
speaker1: and not a monk among them.
speaker1: no, no son of mine will sit and read books and eat up the poor people's butter while my people have to butcher the cows and sheep because these holy men can't kill an animal. they can eat it, can't they?

speaker1: did you love your husband, before you married? 
speaker2: i did not know him before i married him. i loved his brother, but then, i married his brother, too. he is dead now.
speaker1: hmm.
speaker2: the land has stayed in the family. we work together. the nobleman is not too bad.
speaker1: does he treat you fairly?
speaker2: not too bad. rich is rich, poor is poor. we are different. are you married? tenzin gyatso laughs.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: too young?
speaker1: much too young.
speaker2: look for a strong woman, not too occupied with her beauty. look for a woinan who keeps her hands busy. look for a kind heart.
speaker1: like my mother.
speaker2: i see that.

speaker1: this little brother was terribly sweet. when he died, my mother was so sad. a lama said to her, before the little brother was laid out for burial, take a bit of butter and rub a spot on his skin. he will come back to you, you will see. so, my mother did this, and a few years later, a new boy was born. 
speaker2: does he have the spot?
speaker1: he does, a little spot where the butter had been.
speaker2: is that a true story, or pretend?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: true.
speaker1: you decide.
speaker2: what does the butter spot feel like?
speaker1: soft. nice. i have a good friend back in lhasa. he has a very poor beard, with a little spot on his chin where no hair grows. it feels like that.

speaker1: of the tibetan delegations sent abroad, all have been turned away. 
speaker2: all?

speaker1: britain, nepal, america, india. all of those governments have refused to meet with our representatives. 
speaker2: and the united nations? surely?
speaker1: the united nations voted not to hear our appeal.
speaker3: one country did sponsor the resolution. a land called "el salvador".
speaker2: where is that?
speaker3: in the americas.
speaker2: so, we must face china and all her might alone.
speaker1: yes. most of the chamdo region is now in chinese hands. there is a report from chamdo which makes quite clear that, unless some settlement can soon be reached, communist troops will soon be marching on lhasa.
speaker2: with much bloodshed.
speaker1: i am afraid.
speaker2: i want at all costs to avoid this. do we have news from the delegation in china?
speaker4: not yet, but the governor of chamdo, ngabo jigme, suggests we must negotiate and offers to go to peking.
speaker2: he is a capable man.
speaker3: your prime minsters would argue that such negotiations should take place in lhasa.
speaker2: and then they would concede that the times are desperate and we must go to peking. agreed. send ngabo.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: time to study.
speaker2: wait.
speaker2: we are in the last outposts of tibet. let's do away with some of this formality. the dalai lama leaves the room.
speaker3: he is a modern man.
speaker2: "i will liberate those not liberated." i will release those not released. i will relieve those not relieved. may i deliver them to the state of enlightenment."

speaker1: "today in peking, a seventeen point agreement for the peaceful liberation of tibet has been signed by representatives of the government of the people's republic of china and the local government of tibet." 
speaker1: "over the last hundred years or more aggressive, imperialist forces have penetrated into tibet and carried out all manner of deceptions and provocations. under such conditions the tibetan nationality was plunged into the depths of enslavement and suffering."
speaker1: "today, this enslavement ends. point one: the tibetan people shall unite and drive out imperialist aggressive forces from tibet. the tibetan people shall return to the big family of the motherland - the people's republic of china." point two: the local government of tibet will actively assist the people's liberation army to enter tibet and consolidate the national defense." tenzin gyatso is stunned. frozen.
speaker2: it means we have lost our status as an independent nation.

speaker1: ngabo did not have the state seal. he could not sign. 
speaker2: yes, but they say he did.
speaker1: holiness?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: general chiang chin-wu, the chinese representative, is en route to dromo.
speaker2: then, we shall meet.

speaker1: dalai lama. 
speaker2: general chiang.
speaker1: we bring greetings from chairman mao.
speaker2: thank you. please sit.
speaker1: have you heard the terms of the seventeen point agreement?
speaker2: i have.
speaker1: i have a copy for you.
speaker1: we come in genuine friendship. close on the dalai lama.
speaker1: i am certain you wish to return to lhasa.
speaker1: do you have plans to return soon, dalai lama?
speaker2: soon.
speaker1: good. our first request is that you allow us to build a road. you have no roads in tibet. we can discuss the plans in lhasa. when you return.
speaker3: thank you. we leave now.
speaker2: let me see the agreement.
speaker2: counterfeit.

speaker1: i thought he would be some kind of monster, even with horns growing out of his head. but, he is only a man, just an ordinary human being, like myself. life is always a lesson. 
speaker2: your prime ministers, support the proposal that you return to lhasa. on the opposite hand, some officials urge you not to return. they believe you should leave now, for india.
speaker1: if i were to go into exile, could we expect any serious assistance, from india, suppose?
speaker3: it is unlikely. america, perhaps. there is great anti-communist feeling in america.
speaker1: at this point, the most likely result of a foreign pact is war.
speaker4: the chinese would see such a pact as an open declaration of war.
speaker1: tibet, at war? no. china is close, america is far away. after countless people die, china would still, always, be close. we will work with what we have.
speaker2: and as for your own safety, holiness?
speaker1: i am scared.
speaker5: shall we consult the protective deities, holiness?
speaker1: my first and foremost duty is to protect my people. i feel sure of this. and, things change. maybe not right away, maybe not soon. but i believe this - things will change.
speaker1: impermanence. our own short lifetimes are not the only valid consideration.

speaker1: i hope you will not feel badly about all the things of childhood you missed. 
speaker1: you lost so much. i am sorry.
speaker1: goodbye, kundun.
speaker2: goodbye, kundun.
speaker3: no!
speaker4: goodbye, kundun. tenzin gyatso no!
speaker3: no, norbu!

speaker1: i am not a foreigner! i refuse to be treated like one. the dalai lama is shaken by this violent behavior. 
speaker2: you see here thangkas of the fifth dalai lama, the founder of our government. it is tradition at formal meetings for these thangkas to be hung.
speaker1: superstitions. tibet is part of a modern nation.
speaker1: i want the songs stopped.
speaker2: songs? what songs?
speaker3: street songs about the general. reference to his gold watch. he is right, they are quite insulting.
speaker2: i have no authority to ban singing in my country.
speaker1: you must also do something about the public meetings. i see this, memorandum circulating, with tibetan grievances.
speaker4: you have cracked a man's skull and that crack has not healed. it is too soon to expect him to be your friend.
speaker1: we are simply respecting the terms of the seventeen point agreement.
speaker4: are you, general?
speaker1: we want 2,000 more tons of barley distributed.
speaker4: impossible! you will bring famine down on the people of tibet with these insatiable demands! more food, the best land for your soldiers to camp.
speaker1: the people's liberation army pays for all food and lodging.
speaker4: so far, they do. but, the quantity, it does not exist. you will have to re- evaluate your needs.
speaker1: how much tea do you drink, prime minister?
speaker4: it depends on the quality. and, that it be indian.
speaker4: why is it necessary for the chinese to keep so many soldiers in lhasa?
speaker1: to protect. to serve you. chairman mao wants you to feel that china belongs to you now.
speaker4: chairman mao can keep china. just give us back tibet.
speaker1: plans for absorbing the tibetan army into the people's army will soon be finalized.
speaker4: i will not approve it.
speaker1: then, we will begin with replacing the tibetan flag with the flag of the motherland.
speaker4: and we will begin with tearing it down.

speaker1: i am so sorry. 
speaker2: it must be done. we can no longer meet with the chinese, they refuse us.

speaker1: i accept your resignations. 
speaker2: have you chosen your new prime ministers, holiness?
speaker1: there will be no new prime ministers.
speaker3: you will face great difficulties, holiness.
speaker1: they have taken away our silence.

speaker1: i am so glad that tibet has come back to the motherland. 
speaker1: you must inform me at once if any of our people abuse the tibetans trust and good nature.
speaker2: i have great hopes for the future of our co-operation.
speaker1: it is too early to implement all the clauses of the seventeen point agreement. we will establish a preparatory committee for the autonomous region of tibet. the pace of reform must meet with the desires of the tibetan people. changes must be made slowly, as you, yourself, judge necessary.
speaker2: i am happy to hear you say this, chairman mao. i have created a reform committee to investigate grievances and we have abolished inherited tax, and forgiven all money owed the government by people who are unable to pay.
speaker1: good. very good. tibet is a great country. a a wonderful history. long ago, you even conquered part of china. but now you have fallen behind and we want to help you. in twenty years time you could be ahead of us. then it will be your turn to help china.
speaker1: you know, i have great respect for your lord buddha. he was anti-caste. anti-corruption. anti-exploitation. for some, politics and religion can mix.
speaker2: for me, i think such a mix is crucial.
speaker1: have a sweet. made in my home province. the kind my mother used to make.

speaker1: "if moral discipline is learned from the beginning, one possesses the root for achieving higher rebirth. a staircase for achieving liberation. an antidote eliminating misery and sorrow. without discipline there is no method." pause. 
speaker1: i am thinking of becoming a communist party member. i like what i see of marxism. it is based on equality and justice for all. i believe chairman mao wishes the best for our people. our path must be non-violence. co-operation.

speaker1: ah, dalai lama, thank you for coming so late. 
speaker2: i leave tomorrow.
speaker1: yes, i am aware. how has your time in china been?
speaker2: i have been greatly impressed by your accomplishments. industrial progress. great efficiency. your people are capable and courteous.
speaker1: you have a lot to learn about organization. how to draw out people's opinions. how to make key decisions. train your young tibetans. when i make contact with you, i want to reach you through a tibetan.
speaker3: always.
speaker1: your attitude is good, you know. i understand you well. but you need to learn this: religion is poison. it undermines the race and it retards the progress of the people. tibet has been poisoned by religion.
speaker1: well, let me walk you to your car.

speaker1: he will betray us. 
speaker2: did you ever doubt it?
speaker1: i had relinquished doubt.

speaker1: are you happy? 
speaker2: i am very happy and prosperous under the guidance of the chinese communist party and chairman mao tse tung. it is a horrifying announcement.

speaker1: i ask them to stop, to lay down their guns. 
speaker2: the khamba's gun is his most prized possession. i admire them so. they face a modern, well equipped army, and still, they fight.
speaker2: land reform is underway in amdo. the large estates are being confiscated and redistributed. landlords are being punished.
speaker1: a beggar can be called a landlord if he disapproves of the chinese.
speaker1: i have always asked for plain information. just the truth.
speaker2: the communists put their guns in the hands of the khamba children and force the child to kill the parent. they have dropped bombs on the monastery of lithang in kham. it has been destroyed. women and children, trying to escape from the fighting, have been shot with machine guns, fired from airplanes.
speaker1: the pursuit of non-violence.
speaker2: non-violence means co-operation when it is possible. resistance, when it is not.

speaker1: we have decided that no drastic changes will take place in tibet for six years. this should make you happy. 
speaker1: it seems a revolt has broken out in the east. we have decided that the tibetan army must be used against the khamba guerrillas. the general sips.
speaker2: i will not approve it.
speaker2: you have bombed on peaceful people.
speaker1: we must deal with these reactionaries!
speaker2: no. we are peace loving people. i am afraid we cannot trust you.
speaker1: we are here to heal the people of tibet. you need reform. you have no sense of what is good for your people. we are here to liberate you!
speaker2: i burn here, but i am not suppose to let the smoke show. yes, we need reform. the monasteries. communications. schools. but we want change for tibet, as tibet needs it, not for china.
speaker2: buddha is our physician, general, he will heal us. comapssion and enlightnement will set us free. you can not liberate me i can only liberate myself.
speaker3: they will take lhasa next.
speaker2: the people will not allow it.

speaker1: where there is no crossing a big river, no fords, no shallows, where the only hope is a boat, and there is no boat... i will put a boat, kundun. the wish-fulfilling jewel will shine from the west. 
speaker2: a few random views of the norbulinka:
speaker3: "i rejoice in the awakening of the buddhas, and also in the spiritual levels of their sons."
speaker3: "and with gladness i rejoice in the ocean of virtue from developing an awakening mind that wishes all beings to be happy..." the yellow wall. the dalai lama's red room.
speaker3: "as well as in the deeds that bring them benefit.
speaker3: "with folded hands i beseech the buddhas of all directions. to shine the lamp of dharma for all bewildered in the gloom of misery."
speaker4: "with folded hands i beseech

speaker1: chinese, go! chinese, go! chinese, go! 
speaker2: chinese, go! chinese, go!
speaker3: the crowd will not disperse until you give your assurance that you will not attend the chinese festivities. many who have been invited to dine with the chinese do not return home.
speaker4: i will not go.
speaker3: i will alert the chinese delegation. you know, i would never have let you go alone, kundun.
speaker5: did you come to tell me we are leaving lhasa?
speaker4: do you think i must?
speaker5: you decide.
speaker4: tibet has never been part of china. we are different races. we are different cultures. we need change, we know that. but we could do it alone. we were just about to do it alone. the young man fills the last bowl with water.
speaker4: i am afraid i will go.

speaker1: we are now accused of aiding the rebels. the chinese said we can expect drastic measures to be taken to crush this revolt. 
speaker2: arrange for me to speak to the people's leaders.
speaker2: i fear that there will be great bloodshed if you cannot convince the people to disperse and go home.
speaker3: holiness, the chinese tried to entice you to their garrison with out protection of bodyguard. even now, they urge you to come to them for safety. they are bringing more troops and guns and artillery into lhasa. there are three airplanes waiting outside lhasa. what do they wait for? they are planning to kill the dalai lama. don't you see?

speaker1: the chinese are planning to attack the crowd and shell the norbulinka. you are asked to indicate on a map where you will be so that the artillery men will not mistakenly aim at you. the dalai lama walks down the outdoor stairs. 
speaker2: tell them i will be here.

speaker1: go! go! tonight! 
speaker1: go! tonight! go!

speaker1: wait. 
speaker1: i see a safe journey.
speaker1: i see a safe return.
speaker1: now. i am ready.

speaker1: move aside, tour of inspection, move aside. 
speaker2: move aside, let us through. move aside!

speaker1: "right will be victorious." 
speaker2: "the gods will be avenged!"

speaker1: i repudiate the seventeen point agreement 
speaker1: i constitute the government of tibet, the only legal authority in the land.

speaker1: with all respect, may i ask? who are you? 
speaker2: what you see before you is a man. a simple monk.
speaker1: are you the lord buddha?
speaker2: i think i am a reflection, like the moon, on water. when you see me, and i try to be a good man, see yourself

