speaker1: high open space, exposed structural elements. obviously aimed at first time visitors to create feelings of... smallness, inadequacy. 
speaker2: good thing it ain't workin... reed, what are we doing here? this guy's fast-food, strip-mall science --
speaker1: this wasn't our first stop, in case you forgot nasa. and victor's not that bad. he's just a little... larger than life.

speaker1: he's financed some of the biggest breakthroughs of this century. 
speaker2: you'd never know it.
speaker2: that too?
speaker1: reed richards and ben grimm to see --
speaker3: executive elevator, top floor.
speaker2: what's the price for a smile round here?

speaker1: my research suggests that exposure to a high-energy cosmic storm born on solar winds might have triggered the evolution of early planetary life. 
speaker1: in six weeks another cloud with the same elemental profile will pass earth's orbit. a study in space could advance our knowledge about the structure of the human genome, and help cure countless diseases, extend human life --
speaker1: give kids the chance to be stronger, healthier, less prone to --
speaker2: turn it off. please. the figure's deep voice pierces the darkness.
speaker1: but i haven't fully explained my --
speaker2: yes you have... imagination. creativity. passion. those were always your trademarks.

speaker1: but dreams don't pay the bills, do they? same old reed, the hopeless optimist. still reaching for the stars, with the world on your back. 
speaker2: you remember in school we talked about working together. that's what i was about to explain...
speaker1: so it's not my money you want. it's my toys... tell me: if nasa doesn't trust you, why should i?
speaker1: that's my job. to stay a step ahead. to know what other men don't.
speaker3: i can't take this.
speaker2: ben. this is business. just work.

speaker1: he's right, ben. 
speaker1: it's just business.
speaker2: i think you both know my director of genetic research, susan storm.
speaker3: heya susie. one more thing he's got.
speaker1: ben, it's been too long.
speaker4: you're, you've, i mean, how have you bee--
speaker1: never better.
speaker2: this isn't going to be a problem, is it?
speaker4: not at all.
speaker1: ancient history.
speaker2: good. then you're just in time to hear the great reed richards ask me for help. you know, you made a lot of folks at mit feel like a junior high science fair. so you'll excuse me if i savor the moment.
speaker4: you back this mission, and i'll sign over a fair percentage of any applications or --
speaker2: the number's seventy-five. and it's applications and patents.
speaker3: what about his first born?
speaker4: ben, the money's not important. we could save lives.
speaker2: twenty-five percent of a billion is enough to keep the lights on, isn't it? maybe even pay off your fourth mortgage on the baxter building.
speaker2: deal...?
speaker2: well then, to our future. together.
speaker2: funny how things turn out, isn't it?
speaker4: hilarious.

speaker1: if reed's right, then this little trip will double our stock offering. 
speaker2: and if he's not...?
speaker1: reed's always right. good thing he doesn't always know what he's got...
speaker3: he knew about nasa. what if he made the call to shut us down --
speaker4: ben, think about all the people we can help if this works --
speaker3: maybe you should think about yourself for once. you always let this guy push you round --
speaker4: we got what we wanted. that's enough.
speaker3: i know, i know. i'm just worried about what he wants... speaking of which...

speaker1: you sure about this, reed? 
speaker2: those solar winds are flaring, but i factored them into my coordinates and --
speaker1: i was talking about us. working together.
speaker2: well, uh, based on our history...you can handle the biogenetics, and i'll focus on the molecular physics. or, uhm, maybe i should take the biotech, you work the microscopes, since you have some background in electropho--
speaker3: way to not overthink it. so when do we leave?
speaker1: i'll schedule the launch. call me in the morning to talk about resources and crew.
speaker2: i, uh, think i remember the number.
speaker1: it's been changed.
speaker2: as far as crew, i was hoping ben could pilot the mission --
speaker1: well, he's welcome to ride shotgun, but we already have a pilot on our payroll. you remember my brother johnny...

speaker1: can't do it. i cannot do it. 
speaker2: external srbs, orbital system engines. its just like the shuttles you flew in --
speaker1: no. i cannot take orders from that underwear model. that wingnut washed out of nasa for sneaking two victoria secret wannabes into a flight simulator.
speaker2: youthful high spirits. they walk toward the base of the scaffolding.
speaker1: they crashed it into a wall. a flight simulator.
speaker2: i'm sure he's matured since then.
speaker2: when have i asked you to do something you absolutely said you could not do?
speaker1: five times.
speaker2: i had it at four.
speaker1: this makes five.

speaker1: captain on the bridge! 
speaker1: digital camera: $254. memory stick: $59. the look on your hard-ass former co's grill when he finds out he's your junior officer: priceless.
speaker2: i can handle the ship. i can even handle mr. blonde ambition. but i don't know if i should be flying or playing vegas in these suits. who the came up with them?
speaker3: victor did.
speaker3: the synthetics act as a second skin, adapting to your individual needs to --
speaker1: keep the hot side hot, and the cool side cool!
speaker4: wow. fantastic.
speaker4: material made from self-regulating unstable molecules. i've been working on a formula for this.
speaker3: great minds think alike.
speaker5: guess some think faster than others.
speaker5: i hired armani to design the pattern. these colors will look great on camera.
speaker6: they're ready for you, sir.
speaker5: showtime.

speaker1: our numbers are through the roof. the ipo's tracking at fifty, sixty a share. the bank's five times oversubscribed -- 
speaker2: it's not just the money. i could make money in my sleep.
speaker1: then what is it?
speaker2: history, leonard. history. everything else is conversation... how's the other matter?
speaker1: harry winston sends his regards.

speaker1: today we stand on the edge of a new frontier. in the furthest depths of outer space...we will find the secrets to inner space. the final key to unlocking our genetic code lies in a cosmic storm... 
speaker2: isn't that your speech?
speaker3: he's made a few changes.
speaker2: this is your dream, reed. you should be the one up there.
speaker3: victor's better at these things.
speaker2: i'll be watching over you.
speaker4: just get back soon, or i start looking for a new groom.
speaker2: soon as i'm back, i'm gonna trade that in for a bigger rock.
speaker4: i don't care about rocks, i care about you. you bring him back in one piece, or you can forget being best man.
speaker2: what the you smiling at? just keep your mouth shut, and your mind on those smbs --
speaker5: actually, the engines are smes. hydrogenbase, carbon propellant. couple generations past your last ride. i'm not as as you look.

speaker1: think of a world without genetic flaws -- no asthma, allergies, baldness, breast cancer... 
speaker2: what's wrong with being bald...?
speaker1: darwin discovered evolution. now we -- i -- will define it. only in america could...
speaker1: ...a little country boy from latveria build one of the biggest companies in the world, and truly reach the stars. now if you'll excuse me, history awaits...

speaker1: if you behave, maybe next time daddy'll let you drive. 
speaker2: keep talking, there won't be a next time.
speaker3: long way from the projection booth at the hayden planetarium, isn't it?
speaker4: yes. yes it is.

speaker1: leonard, how's the feed? 
speaker2: recording, sir. we see you perfectly.
speaker3: we can monitor the cloud's approach and observe the tests from here.
speaker4: is it safe?
speaker5: the shields on the station should protect us.
speaker4: should?
speaker1: what's wrong, ben? eighty-million dollars worth of equipment not enough for you?
speaker5: let's start loading those samples. get your suit ready, ben.
speaker1: so you still do all the heavy lifting?
speaker1: maybe you should have stayed back in the lab. field work never suited you.
speaker4: he does the talking. i do the walking. got it?
speaker1: got it. so take a walk, ben...i'm going to borrow susan for a second.
speaker5: sure. ben and johnny read his eyes, as we cut to --

speaker1: please tell me your dawg's not trying to rekindle things with my sister. 
speaker2: 'course not. strictly business.
speaker1: yeah, well, his eyes say different.
speaker2: hey, two hearts got busted last time. maybe she's not over it either.
speaker1: let's see: you got victor, stud of the year, more coin than god? or reed, the world's dumbest smart guy worth less than a postage stamp. hmmm, it's a toss-up.
speaker2: put your tiny little mind at ease.
speaker1: don't you wander off, boy.

speaker1: surprised i agreed to reed's proposal? 
speaker2: i understand the business reasons.
speaker1: well, when you're looking at your future, it never hurts to find closure about the past.
speaker1: susan, every man dreams that he'll meet some woman he can give the world to.
speaker1: in my case, it's not just a metaphor.

speaker1: you've been with me two years now. 
speaker2: it's been a good two years, victor...
speaker1: right, of course, the company... but you see, i've come to realize all the accomplishments in the world mean nothing without someone to share them with --
speaker2: uh, victor, i hope i haven't done something to make you think...
speaker1: sue, i've lived my life unafraid of taking big steps. and this is the biggest step yet. if it helps, think of this as a promotion. a merger of sorts... four little words that can change our lives...
speaker3: the cloud is accelerating!
speaker3: i don't know what happened.
speaker3: we've got minutes until it hits, not hours...victor, that storm's deadly -- the radiation's lethal. we need to abort.
speaker1: get a grip. reed. we didn't come all this way to lose our nerve at the first little glitch. just close the shields...
speaker3: ben's still out there --
speaker1: so reel him in. but we came here to do a job. so let's do it. quickly.

speaker1: ben, we need you back inside. 
speaker2: i ain't done arranging your flowers, egghead.
speaker1: ben. this is serious. turn around.
speaker2: roger that, on my way.

speaker1: come on, ben, come on... 
speaker2: reed, we're running out of time.

speaker1: johnny... reed... 
speaker2: reed, you need to get up here so we can close the shields! now!
speaker3: not until ben is back inside!
speaker2: it's too late for him, and soon it'll be too late for all of us.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: raising the shields.
speaker1: you can't leave them out there.
speaker2: watch me. reed had his chance. you can't help them any more than i can.
speaker1: i can try.
speaker3: victor's right. johnny, get to the command center. close the shields.

speaker1: what about you? 
speaker1: come on big guy, you can do it!

speaker1: he's not responsive -- 
speaker2: ben! ben!

speaker1: ben, wake up! wake up! 
speaker2: where...where am i?
speaker3: back on earth. victor's medical facility... we're in quarantine.
speaker2: reed? ... sue?
speaker3: they're fine. everybody else...is fine.
speaker2: what's wrong with me?
speaker3: i swear to you they've done everything humanly possible. the best plastic surgeons in the world, ben. you had the best --
speaker2: give me a mirror...
speaker3: they said that's not such a good idea, the shock alone could --
speaker2: give me the mirror!
speaker3: unfortunately, the doctors just couldn't do anything to fix your face!

speaker1: nice 'do. going for the "grandpa" look? 
speaker2: you've been accused in the past of moving science a little too fast --
speaker3: accused by who? my competitors?
speaker4: but surely this accident gives you pause --
speaker3: danger is always part of discovery. what would have happened if ben franklin never went out in a storm?
speaker5: so where's the reward? you promised a cure-all.
speaker3: and you'll have it. i've never come up short. and i'm not going to start now.
speaker4: so you're still taking vdi public --
speaker3: yes, of course. i've never been more confident in the compan-- reed mutes the television.
speaker6: how's she doing?
speaker7: stable. vitals are strong.
speaker6: blood panels show no irradiation. good. you'll step up this protocol, every --
speaker7: four hours. we know what we're doing... one more day of observation, then you're all cleared.
speaker6: sue...i want to tell you...i'm...
speaker6: she's allergic to orchids. put that amaryllis apapathos by her bed. the african lilies? they're her favorites.

speaker1: and where do we think we're going? 
speaker2: i don't know if "we've" noticed, but the sickest runs this side of the alps are right outside that window --
speaker3: i've noticed... but doctor's orders, you're not allowed to leave until we --
speaker2: finish the tests, i know -- could you give me a hand with this zipper?
speaker3: you know this is not a ski resort.
speaker2: not yet.
speaker2: luckily grandma still sends care packages.
speaker3: you are trouble.
speaker2: brubbles my triddle name.
speaker1: you're hot!
speaker2: so are you!
speaker1: i mean, you feel a little feverish.
speaker2: i've never felt better in my life. when do you get off work?
speaker1: my shift ends at four, but i couldn't --
speaker2: meet me at 4:01, top of the run. that'll give you a minute to freshen up.

speaker1: how long was i out? 
speaker2: three days. i was worried about you. how are you feeling?
speaker1: solid.
speaker1: how you doing?
speaker2: i don't know. i just keep going over and over the numbers.
speaker1: reed. even you can't compute every little thing.
speaker2: i should have done more, run more tests --
speaker1: it was a freak of nature. last i checked, you don't have a crystal ball. let it go.
speaker1: you go through something like this, makes you appreciate having the right woman in your life.
speaker2: yeah, you and debbie and perfect --
speaker1: reed, i'm not talking about debbie.
speaker2: what? come on. she's got a good thing with victor --
speaker1: i'm sorry, did that cosmic-bath loosen your screws?
speaker2: he's smart, powerful, successful --
speaker1: well maybe you should date him.
speaker2: ben. he'll give her the life she deserves. she ended up with the right guy. things worked out for the best.
speaker1: do i have to do everything myself?

speaker1: me like-y. 
speaker2: stay right. left is trouble.
speaker1: i though we went over this.
speaker2: last one down springs for room service.

speaker1: you're on fire! 
speaker2: not this again --
speaker1: no: you're on fire!
speaker2: care to join me?

speaker1: how's the ipo? 
speaker2: stable. we're looking at low twenties. it's a good number, considering the fallout from --
speaker1: reed's disaster. you know, i half- think he did this to me on purpose.
speaker2: sir, i'm sure he wouldn't put himself --
speaker1: get me on the am shows, larry king, cover of the journal... i've got to do something about this scar. make sure they only shoot my right side.
speaker2: actually, uh, people seem to think the scar "humanizes" you.
speaker1: and that's a good thing?
speaker2: you know, maybe you should get some rest --
speaker1: later. first, i've got some unfinished business. a deal that needs closing...
speaker2: sir, i've always wondered... why sue? you could have any woman in the world but --
speaker1: that's why. because i could have any other woman... you know, when they asked caesar "why england," he said, "because it's not mine."

speaker1: i can only stay for one drink, ben. i've got to meet with victor. 
speaker2: wouldn't want to keep vic waiting.
speaker2: hey reed, what are you doing here? great, why don't you join us?
speaker2: i'm starving. gonna hit the buffet.

speaker1: pardon me... 
speaker2: are you alright?
speaker1: i think i need to lie down. bad shrimp.
speaker1: really bad shrimp.
speaker2: feeling better?
speaker3: yes, thanks.
speaker2: that's good. that's uh...good.
speaker3: you always had a way with words. i should be getting back.
speaker2: i'm really happy for you and victor.
speaker3: you're happy for me and victor.
speaker2: i can tell you guys are enjoying what was the best part of our relationship --
speaker3: which was?
speaker2: passion.
speaker2: for science.
speaker2: what? what did i say?
speaker3: it's never what you say. it's what you don't say. what you don't do...
speaker2: i...i...i just wanted to --
speaker3: it's been two years, and all you can say is you're happy for me and some other guy... you know, victor may be a lot of things, but at least he's not afraid to fight for what he wants... and it's nice to be wanted sometimes. to be heard...seen... reed, look at me.
speaker2: uh, sue...? i can't.
speaker3: what? what do you mean you --
speaker2: sue...look at your hands.
speaker4: you guys will not believe what just happened!

speaker1: it has to be the cloud. it's fundamentally altered our dna. 
speaker2: let's not jump to conclusions, we need a massive amount of evidence before making that leap.
speaker3: now what is up with that?
speaker2: the cloud has fundamentally altered our dna.
speaker3: cool. what'd it do to you guys?
speaker1: apparently i can disappear.
speaker3: please tell me you go silent too.
speaker2: we have to find ben.

speaker1: flame on, flame off. flame on, flame off -- 
speaker2: johnny.
speaker2: stop it.
speaker1: okay, "mom."
speaker1: oh, you dawg you. better not be my nurse!

speaker1: ben, are you there? 
speaker2: open up ben, we need to talk.

speaker1: ...ben? 
speaker2: what is that thing?
speaker3: i think that thing is ben.
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker3: victor, are you feeling alright?
speaker4: just a little banged up. a couple scrapes. why?
speaker1: ben did this.
speaker4: ben did this?
speaker1: he's had some kind of...reaction to exposure from the cloud. and he's not the only one.
speaker3: we need to find him.
speaker3: victor, i'm sorry i --
speaker4: just find him.
speaker2: anybody know where the big guy's going?
speaker1: he's going home.

speaker1: hello, operator? 
speaker1: deb... it's me. i need you to step out front.
speaker2: out front? you home, baby? i got a surprise for you.
speaker1: i got a surprise for you too.

speaker1: ben? 
speaker2: don't come any closer for a sec. this is gonna be kind of a shock... you remember when we said "together forever no matter what"?
speaker1: baby, you're scaring me.
speaker1: oh my g-g-g. what did you...do to ben?
speaker2: deb, it's me. it's still me.
speaker1: don't...don't...don't touch me!
speaker2: i love you, deb.

speaker1: make sure you find ben, bring him back here. and keep it quiet. i don't need this to hit the press. 
speaker2: yes sir. you've got the mayor at eight, then a nine-thirty interview with the journal --
speaker1: front page?
speaker2: top left, like you asked. today wall street. tomorrow, who knows...maybe washington.
speaker1: leonard. think bigger.

speaker1: a few days in space, it'll be great, what's the worst that could happen? 
speaker1: perfect. thanks.
speaker1: you think you got trouble? take a good look, pal, how bad could it be?
speaker1: okay, easy there, buddy.
speaker1: you had to choose my spot, didn't you?
speaker1: this is really not my day.

speaker1: back! we're evac-ing the bridge. 
speaker2: what now? reed...? what do we do?
speaker2: ben's out there. let's go get him.
speaker1: maybe you didn't hear me. those cars are gonna blow sky high, any second.
speaker3: look, we've got a friend out there in trouble. we need to get to him before --
speaker4: nobody gets past this point.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: we need to get past them.
speaker5: what the is this? a magic show?
speaker3: sue. your clothes. lose them.
speaker2: what...? oh.
speaker6: this is wrong in so many ways.
speaker3: you've been working out.
speaker2: shut up.
speaker2: any more ideas, reed? maybe you should strip down next, see how it feels to have fifty people staring --
speaker3: uh, sue?
speaker2: oh. well then...
speaker6: i'm gonna need serious therapy.

speaker1: what the --! 
speaker2: ben. are you okay?
speaker1: am i okay?! you wanna explain that?!
speaker1: or this?! what the am i? 'cause i sure ain't ben anymore.

speaker1: there's some folks outside, want to talk to you. 
speaker2: we're not going public with this. we're scientists, not celebrities.
speaker1: too late, son.
speaker1: that's what they're calling you. the fantastic four.
speaker3: nice.
speaker4: johnny, slow down. let's think this through, a second.
speaker3: okay. done thinking.

speaker1: so which one of you's the leader? 
speaker2: that'd be me.
speaker1: no seriously.
speaker1: you're on, son. they all want a statement.
speaker3: uh, during our recent mission to the von doom space station, we were exposed to as yet-unidentified radioactive energy, most likely some kind of nucleotide compoun--
speaker4: what happened on the bridge? does it hurt to stretch? were you really on fire? is it true that one of you can fly?
speaker2: working on it. and it's a lot harder --
speaker5: we don't know much more than you do, at this point. which is why we will be going directly to the lab, where we can diagnose our symptoms and --
speaker6: symptoms? so it's like a disease?
speaker2: symptoms? please. if having powers is a disease, then yeah we got it. and we are gonna blow your minds. there's a new day dawning. the day of the fantastic four.
speaker7: that thing doesn't look too fantastic.
speaker3: ben grimm is a genuine american hero who's been through a terrible orde--
speaker2: what he's trying to say is: every team needs a mascot...
speaker3: look, we went up to space to find a way to understand dna, to cure disease, save lives. well, now it's our dna, our disease, our lives on the line... thank you. no more questions.
speaker8: be nice.

speaker1: well, victor, the bank would like to congratulate you. on the fastest freefall since the depression. we can't even give your stock away. 
speaker2: ned, you know i can turn this around. ned motions to the paper, the picture of ben.
speaker1: you promised a cure-all, and came back with this. who the hell's going to invest in a biotech company that turns its workers into circus freaks?
speaker2: i really appreciate all your support.
speaker1: you've got a week, victor. one week to turn this around. or we pull out... this meeting is over.

speaker1: book-keeper doesn't know preferred stock from livestock. 
speaker2: sir. reed's comments at that press conference killed us. how are we going to turn this around?
speaker1: very simple. i cure them. if i can cure these freaks, then i can cure anyone. what better way to restore my reputation?

speaker1: smile, ben. they want to like you. give 'em your good side. or your less bad side. 
speaker2: uh...don't do drugs.

speaker1: welcome back to the baxter, dr. richards. all that for you? 
speaker2: i'm afraid so...
speaker3: jimmy. good to see you again.
speaker1: good to see you too... don't worry, sir. i know how crowded that head of yours is.
speaker2: any visitors while i was away?
speaker1: just the usual. told 'em you were circling round outer space.
speaker2: we had a tough year.
speaker4: yeah, nine years straight.

speaker1: twenty? from outside the place looks a lot taller. 
speaker2: oh, it is.
speaker1: either we're moving really fast...or not at all.
speaker3: i'll take the stairs.
speaker4: how come ben can't turn it on and off like us?
speaker2: that's what we're here to find out.
speaker4: if it happened to him, then it could...
speaker1: wait. you mean there's chance we could be full-on-24-7-fantastic?
speaker4: grow up, johnny. you want to run around on fire for the rest of your life?
speaker1: is that a trick question? c'mon, i can't be the only one who thinks this is cool.

speaker1: we should stay here until we can define the extent of our changes... 
speaker2: this place is deluxe. you got cable?
speaker1: ...and figure out how to reverse them. let me show you to your rooms.

speaker1: i've been so worried about you. 
speaker2: victor, your scar --
speaker1: i told you, i'm fine. it's you i'm worried about.
speaker2: i'm sorry i didn't get a chance to --
speaker1: please, no apologies. i've arranged for your things to be moved to one of my condos. you'll have round-the clock care.
speaker2: thank you, that's generous, but i think i should stay here. with my brother. until we get a handle on this.
speaker1: sue. i think you should let my doctors have a look at you. a tense beat. standoff. made more tense by --
speaker3: victor! what are you doing here?
speaker1: i'm starting to wonder the same thing... how much do you know about what happened to you?
speaker3: not much. we need to run tests to see the extent of the damage.
speaker1: well, let me know if there is anything i can do. we're all in this together now.

speaker1: victor wait... i just wanted to say, i'm sorry the mission didn't go as planned -- 
speaker2: didn't go as planned? it was a catastrophe. you ruined the lives of four people --
speaker1: i ruined? with all due respect, i told you to abort --
speaker2: abort? reed, i put my company, my name, billions of dollars on the line, and i will not let you make me look like a fool --
speaker1: victor, if we could understand what happened to us --
speaker2: i don't want to understand it. this isn't one of your science projects. i just want to fix it. fast!
speaker3: there a problem, vic?
speaker2: no problem, ben.
speaker2: just pay your electric bill, and get to work on a cure.

speaker1: you got a chisel round here? 
speaker2: if we're going to identify the source of the mutation, we need to isolate your recombinant dna so we can activate positional genomes.
speaker3: we need to give you a physical, so we know what got zapped.
speaker1: well why didn't you say so? you want me to lift some weights or something?
speaker2: no, just sit back. we have a good sense of your strength from the firetruck. we need to find the source of your strength.
speaker1: how bad is it? you know i used to smoke.
speaker2: okay, this might smart a little.
speaker2: we'll...continue this later.

speaker1: back it down, johnny! 
speaker2: i can go hotter!
speaker2: you're really cramping my style here.
speaker3: you were at 4000 kelvin. any hotter, you're approaching supernova --
speaker2: sweet.
speaker3: that's the temperature of the sun.
speaker1: not only could you kill yourself, but you could set fire to earth's atmosphere and destroy all human life as we know it.
speaker2: gotcha. okay. supernova bad.
speaker3: he cooked the equipment.

speaker1: okay. i've uh, got some questions, from sue. that she thought might be better coming from me... can you, you know, go to the bathroom...like normal... 
speaker2: yeah. you don't wanna know the details.
speaker1: ben, i'm afraid i've got to ask --
speaker2: not unless you want that clipboard stretched up your --
speaker1: o-kay. we'll skip that question.

speaker1: is there something about flames? about flaming, that you -- 
speaker2: what are you trying to say? just because i dress well and like to dance --
speaker1: what? no. i'm trying to figure out why we each ended up with different symptoms.
speaker2: oh, well that's easy: i'm hot. you're...well, you're a little limp. sue's easy to see through. and ben's always been a hardass. why aren't you writing this down?

speaker1: it's not "invisibility" per se. you're bending the light around you with some kind of malleable force field. that's what you projected on the bridge. 
speaker2: what about you? you haven't eaten in days. how come you're never on this side of the microscope?
speaker2: bruises...from the bridge?
speaker1: have you had any side-effects, from your powers?
speaker2: i've had some headaches. migraines.
speaker1: you should be able to bend light around other objects, even people, if you could control your emotional state better --
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i'm saying, if you had a little more self control, you could locate the trigger. can you remember the exact emotions when --
speaker2: anger. rage. frustration.
speaker1: okay. is there any way to duplicate that feeling? some memory or...
speaker1: how's that coming -- whoa --
speaker2: i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i didn't mean to do that... you must think that was some kind of latent hostility or --
speaker1: what in the world would give me that idea?
speaker1: i mean, you broke up with me, right?
speaker2: are you kidding?
speaker1: no, i distinctly remember: you walked out my door. ergo...
speaker2: reed. i was ready for the next step, you weren't, ergo, i walked.
speaker1: i think it was a little more complicated than --
speaker2: i just wanted to share an apartment. what was so complicated about that?
speaker1: there were a lot of variables to consider --
speaker2: no. there weren't. there was you. and me. no variables, no math. it was actually the simplest thing in the world. but your head got in the way... like it always does.
speaker1: sue...i just...i thought...
speaker2: same old reed. too much thinking...
speaker3: okay guys, we have a serious problem.

speaker1: our uniforms were exposed to the storm like us. so they can transform like us, becoming invisible, changing size on demand or remaining impervious to flame. 
speaker2: you look like an eighties rock band.
speaker3: the suit will stretch. you should try it --
speaker2: i wouldn't be caught dead in that.
speaker4: he's right. these costumes are... missing something. i can't put my finger on it --
speaker1: they're not costumes.
speaker3: we're not taking them out. johnny, we need to stay here till we've stabilized.
speaker3: johnny shakes his head, frustrated.
speaker4: i'm getting sick of being trapped here. nasa wasn't even this strict!
speaker2: maybe it's missing a utility belt.
speaker5: so what's the prognosis?
speaker6: your tissue, your organs, your entire biophysical structure is changing. every system is still functioning, somehow --
speaker5: and they're changing into...
speaker6: i don't really know. a compound organic-metallic alloy. stronger than titanium or carbon steel. harder than diamonds --
speaker5: like the shields reed said would protect us. how long?
speaker6: at this rate, the infection should be complete in two, maybe three weeks --
speaker5: what do you mean "complete"?
speaker6: i wish i could tell you. i can't pretend to know what we're dealing with here. i'll notify the cdc and -- victor hardens, razor sharp.
speaker5: what?
speaker6: the center for disease control. if this thing is contagious -- whhm! victor grabs the doctor by the throat.
speaker5: look at me. i have a life. i'm the face of a billion-dollar-company... we need to keep this confidential, understand?
speaker6: but...this disease...is progressive...
speaker5: that's terrible news...
speaker5: ...but i think i'll get a second opinion.

speaker1: nothing...nothing...nothing... 
speaker1: of course...of course...the cloud...

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: the plants, from space. their particles are still charged. with the right amount of energy, those ions could create the elemental profile of the cosmic storm. he rifles through a desk drawer, then heads out. sue stands there, looking at the storm. concerned. then we cut to --

speaker1: if we can build a machine to re-create the storm, we can reverse the polarity -- 
speaker2: and reverse the mutations --
speaker1: curing countless diseases, not just ours.
speaker2: but we're the focus, right reed? reed...?
speaker1: of course. of course.
speaker2: and you sure you can control this thing? last time didn't work out so well.
speaker1: with the right energy, we can stabilize the storm. maybe tie into the city grid...

speaker1: you really need to get a janitor. 
speaker1: this must be what it looks like inside your head.
speaker2: there's a system to it.
speaker2: wait! sue, don't touch tha--
speaker1: sorry. my fault. i won't...touch anything.

speaker1: is reed any closer to a cure? 
speaker2: the only thing he's closer to is sue...
speaker2: make me a reservation for two at cipriani tonight.
speaker2: and get this over to ben grimm.
speaker3: close your eyes, baby. keep 'em closed.

speaker1: you surprised? 
speaker2: yeah i'm surprised. surprised the fire department didn't shut this down.
speaker3: i was good looking.
speaker4: what did you wish for, honey?
speaker2: i already got it. everything i want.

speaker1: damn, stretch! 
speaker2: how far's that rubber bend?
speaker3: that's what i'm trying to calculate. and it's not rubber. it's muscle, tendon. i seem to have the ability to manipulate the malleability of my molecular structure and redistribute my density to --
speaker2: right, whatever, have fun.

speaker1: that's not funny! 
speaker2: hey, that's ben grimm there, the first mook from brooklyn to go to outer space, so pay him some respect!
speaker1: ernie. sorry for killing your business. i'll take the usual, then i'm out... better make it a double.

speaker1: who killed the party? 
speaker2: make it a triple. on the house, benny.
speaker3: if there's a she hates me.
speaker1: i don't think she's real big on hate.
speaker3: you wouldn't say that, if you could see me.
speaker1: can i...? see you...?
speaker1: it's okay, i won't bite... ...not that i could.
speaker1: such a sad face... you know, sometimes being different isn't a bad thing.
speaker3: trust me, this ain't one of those times.
speaker1: see you round, benny...
speaker1: i'm alicia, by the way.

speaker1: thank you for coming out to see me. 
speaker2: you said it was urgent.
speaker1: it is. there's something we need to talk about. something i need to ask you...
speaker2: victor, wait, slow down a second. i want you to know i appreciate everything you've done for me, but i just don't --
speaker1: susan. what are you doing?
speaker1: you think i brought you here to talk about us? please. this is business. i need to know: how close is reed to finding to a cure?
speaker2: he's working round the clock. but the data needs to be tested, analyzed before --
speaker1: same old reed. all analysis, no action. wasn't that the problem with you two?
speaker2: if these molecules aren't stable, they could make us worse, maybe even kill us.
speaker1: then why is reed dragging his feet? maybe he likes having his prize specimen under glass... it's ironic, isn't it? you're finally the perfect woman for him...because you're his science project.
speaker2: please don't make this personal --
speaker1: oh, i think you already have.
speaker2: victor, we can't do anything until the research is ready.
speaker1: "we," huh?
speaker1: don't forget who you work for, susan. so get to work. and do your job.
speaker3: i wish my wife would disappear.

speaker1: and now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a special guest for you... johnny storm of the fantastic four! 
speaker2: hey, ronnie renner! i'm a big fan.
speaker3: heard you like to ride. wanna take her for a spin?
speaker4: come on, bro. i'll teach you some tricks...if you can keep up.

speaker1: a rock-solid double-flip! 
speaker1: look at that lift, ladies and gentlemen!
speaker1: frontside 360! he's totally flat and whipped!
speaker1: whoa! that's a...what is that? a

speaker1: is he......flying? 
speaker1: unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen! you've just seen the first...the first...torchflight! the mctorch!
speaker2: my bad. sorry about that. thanks for the lesson, bro.

speaker1: that's new... 
speaker1: have you read these...? from all over. people want us to fight crimes... save their kids...solve their problems... ...when we can't even solve our own.
speaker1: reed. how close are we to a cure?
speaker2: no way to know. without more tests, experiments.
speaker1: we're not specimens, we're patients. this isn't just another science project to you, is it...?

speaker1: ben! what? what's going on!? 
speaker2: so what can you tell us about the outfit?
speaker3: not too much, but i will say that it's all weather and no leather. kind of armani meets astronaut.
speaker4: he didn't.
speaker5: oh, he did.
speaker4: what did he do to the uniform?!
speaker1: he talked me into it.
speaker6: so what are your superhero names?
speaker3: i go by the human torch. the ladies call me torch.
speaker6: what about the rest of the team?
speaker3: uh, we call my sister the invisible girl...the invisible girl.
speaker4: girl...?!
speaker6: that's easy to remember. and reed richards? he's the leader. so what's he? mr. fantastic?
speaker3: well, i wouldn't say he's the leader.
speaker5: could be worse.
speaker6: what about this one? what do you call this thing?
speaker3: that's it. just the thing. we would have gone with the rock, but it was taken. and "thing" pretty much sums it up.
speaker5: okay. i'm gonna go kill him now.
speaker1: ben! slow down a second and -- he sees a photo of himself on screen.
speaker6: is it true what they say? that he can expand any part of his anatomy?
speaker3: actually, between us, i think he's got some problems staying rigid.
speaker1: ...wait for me...
speaker6: which may explain why this woman's not smiling.
speaker4: i'm driving.
speaker3: dude. that's my sister.

speaker1: where's my ride? 
speaker1: what the?! is that my --
speaker1: you're gonna pay for that, pebbles. what?!
speaker2: you gave us names? what are you, the "face" of the fantastic four now?
speaker3: it's about to be a broken face.
speaker4: this isn't permanent, johnny. we need to be careful until we're normal again.
speaker1: what if some of us don't want to be "normal" again? we didn't all turn into monsters like --
speaker3: did you just --
speaker3: okay, that's it, tinkerbell! you want to fly? fly.
speaker1: let's see if we can get blood from a stone.
speaker2: you two need a time-out.
speaker1: blockhead started it!

speaker1: it, johnny. 
speaker2: you need to control yourself and think before you --
speaker3: act. here we go again. reed, what if we got these gifts for a reason? what if we have some, you know...like, calling?
speaker2: a higher calling like getting girls and making money?
speaker3: is there any higher?
speaker3: this is who we are reed. accept it. or better yet: enjoy it.

speaker1: ben! slow down... 
speaker1: he didn't mean it. you know johnny. he's always been a hothead --
speaker2: it's not him. it's them. i can't live like this.
speaker1: just give reed a little more time. you know how he works -- analyzing every little step before he takes one --
speaker2: it's easy for you to be patient.
speaker1: no, it's not. i thought i was done waiting for reed... we're all in this together now, ben.
speaker2: together? look at me, susie. you got no idea what i'd give...to be invisible. your nightmare...is my dream.

speaker1: this is how you "turn things around"? these freaks are on the front page and your company's in the obituaries. 
speaker2: i have a plan to use their publicity for --
speaker1: victor, stop. the bank's lost enough already. this isn't a negotiation. it's a notification. we're pulling out.
speaker2: you need to look long-term here. without risk, there's no --
speaker1: reward. we all know the sales pitch, vic. and frankly, we're done buying... gentlemen.

speaker1: hello...? 
speaker1: von doom? gave me a little shock. no hard feelings, right? nothing personal.
speaker1: you know, you could always move back to latvura, start fresh.
speaker1: maybe that's where you belong, back in the "old country."

speaker1: ...the fantastic four put on quite a show last night. they landed in every major headline in the northern hemisphere. in related news... 
speaker1: reports have surfaced that von doom industries may be filing for bankruptcy. you may remember that it was victor von doom who...
speaker2: sir, is everything okay? what happened to your...?
speaker3: now i'm going to take it back. piece by piece...

speaker1: victor, are you...are you okay? 
speaker2: don't worry about me. worry about yourself.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: what i should have done a long time ago. applications and patents, reed. this all belongs to me.
speaker1: but i'm not done with the machine --
speaker2: which is precisely the point. analysis is over. it's time for action. my men could have mass- produced this by now.
speaker1: mass-produced? this isn't a toaster. you have no idea how it works.
speaker2: re-create the storm, invert the polarity here, reverse the mutation there. don't talk to me like i'm some schoolboy. i've got the same phd you do.
speaker1: the storm needs to be handled exactly right, or it could make our mutations worse, much worse, maybe even kill us...
speaker1: victor, please. we need time to verify the data... we can't afford any mistakes -- there's only enough ions for two or three attempts.
speaker2: reed. i'm not asking permission. we'll build it, while you check the specs.

speaker1: don't let victor push you into making a mistake -- 
speaker2: he was going to take away all my data, equipment --
speaker1: better than your life. victor's not the one who has to get into that thing. we are. reed starts to snap, losing his studied cool.
speaker2: which is why i'm working twenty hours a day, checking every variable --
speaker1: every variable but yourself. you don't eat, sleep. you can't live in your head like --
speaker2: i'm not the only one in there. i got you, vic, ben, johnny, all rattling around in there.
speaker1: so clear it out. get out of your head. get out of here...

speaker1: eyebrows are a little big... a beat. he stares at these images of himself. 
speaker2: i figured the only way to get you here was to stick that in the window.
speaker1: how'd you know it was me?
speaker3: i'm blind, not deaf. wanna come in?
speaker1: i'm not really dressed for a party.
speaker3: relax, it's casual.
speaker1: no, i mean...i'm a little...dusty...

speaker1: those yours too? 
speaker2: my step-dad's. i'm strictly into stone. i was wondering when you'd walk by.
speaker3: you know, you could'a run an ad in the personals.
speaker2: "sensual blind chick seeks three-ton, rock-hard he-man for deep spiritual relationship."
speaker3: this ain't permanent. my friend reed's working on a cure...i think.
speaker2: bennie. you feel pretty good as is.
speaker3: you don't know what it's like out there. walking around like some kind of circus freak. people staring, whispering --
speaker2: i wouldn't know anything about that.
speaker3: i mean...
speaker2: tell me. when you grew up in brooklyn, how many astronauts did you know? you went your own way then. you didn't listen to people. so why start now...?

speaker1: a few fans. hope you don't mind. 
speaker2: gotta take care of the fans, right?
speaker1: look, i built my business knowing what people want. and right now, the people want you.
speaker2: and we don't want to let the people down now, do we?
speaker1: no we don't. which is why we need to strike while the iron's hot. i'm talking action figures, videogames, sponsors --
speaker2: videogames? you serious?
speaker2: you talk to reed and sue about this?
speaker1: johnny. let's be honest here. ben, reed, sue. good people, all. but stars? i don't want to break up the band, but you're the one they want. don't you think it's time to go solo...?
speaker1: take the car for a spin. think about it. is this the life you want? or would you rather live in reed's lab...?

speaker1: i could get ben to tap into the baxter's main power to generate enough voltage -- 
speaker2: reed. shh. just be quiet. and look up.
speaker2: remember our first date here...? i was so nervous.
speaker1: you were?
speaker2: of course i was. i'd read all your papers on bioethics. some of them two times just so i'd have something to say to you.
speaker1: you know, i bribed the projectionist ten bucks to keep it open late?
speaker2: i gave him twenty. they laugh. sue looks up to the stars. quiet:
speaker2: i didn't want that night to end.
speaker1: sue, you were right. it wasn't complicated. i just wasn't ready to be...to become... you can be a little intimidating.
speaker1: you always talked about how you liked the kind of man who could approach you...speak his mind. one who wasn't afraid to tell you what he wanted.
speaker2: i did. i did, reed...but i wanted you to be that man.
speaker2: when i walked out, i waited ten minutes outside your door. ten. waiting for you to come find me.
speaker1: why didn't you say something?
speaker2: that would have kinda defeated the purpose. and reed... i'm saying it now.
speaker2: come find me.
speaker2: that's my nose, genius... these are my lips.

speaker1: i don't know about this one. it lacks a certain...realism. 
speaker2: she's always had a thing for runaways and strays, but this is ridiculous.
speaker3: i know. did she really think these sculptures would sell?
speaker2: like anybody would want this thing in their house. that girl's a one-woman charity.

speaker1: this seat taken? 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: i'm worried about you.
speaker2: about me? how sweet.
speaker1: come on. let me buy you something to eat. looks like you could use the company.

speaker1: 'scuse me. 
speaker2: i know it can't be easy. life hasn't changed that much for reed, sue and johnny. at least they can go out in public. but for you? people staring.
speaker1: if you're trying to cheer me up you're doing a helluva job --
speaker2: i'm just saying, i know what it's like to lose something you love. to see it slip away, and know it's never coming back.
speaker1: reed's gonna fix me up --
speaker2: for your sake i hope you're right. i'm sorry if that sounds a little skeptical.
speaker1: skeptical...?
speaker2: look, he's a brilliant man, we should trust he's working as hard as he can. you're his best friend. so what possible reason could he have for taking his time? i mean, other than getting close to sue?

speaker1: yeah, i have that effect on people. 
speaker2: ben --
speaker1: oh, you remember my name do you? you happen to remember what you swore to do with every breath in your body?
speaker2: we're working as hard as we can --
speaker1: yeah. i can tell. victor was right.
speaker2: come on, this is nothing.
speaker1: glad "nothing" could take you away from your work.
speaker2: ben, i don't know if this thing'll change us back or make us worse. i need you to be patient for a little while longe--
speaker1: look at me, reed. look at me!
speaker2: i am looking. that's why i can't make a mistake! i've got to get it right, and it's not right yet! we need to test this.
speaker1: i spent my whole life protecting you, from the schoolyard to the stars. for what? so you could play twister with your girlfriend while i'm the freak of the week?
speaker3: ben! stop it! or i'll stop it.
speaker1: stay out of this susie.
speaker1: good thing you're flexible enough to watch your own back. 'cause you're on your own now.
speaker2: i'm ok. just go, go after him. stop him.

speaker1: hey! that's a prototype! 
speaker2: go back to the drawing board.

speaker1: johnny? did you see ben? 
speaker2: yeah, for the last time, i hope. i'm done with this freak show. i'm moving back to the real world.
speaker1: is that what you call it? "real"?
speaker2: at least it beats living in a lab like somebody's science project.
speaker1: johnny, slow down. think. you know mom didn't raise us to --
speaker2: look around, sis! she's not here. so you can stop talking to me like i'm your little boy --
speaker1: as soon as you stop acting like one. come on, you're smarter than this. you think those people out there care about you? you're just a fad to them.
speaker2: let's try something new: you live your life. and i'll live mine. and just for the record: they love me.

speaker1: i can...make it work. 
speaker2: reed, stop, you need to rest your --
speaker1: the power...i need...more power...to control...the storm --
speaker2: you need a doctor.

speaker1: more power...? 
speaker1: leonard. bring me our lab rat.

speaker1: what do you say we get out of here? 
speaker1: this your boyfriend?
speaker2: is that all you do? bar tricks and stealing chicks...
speaker3: what are you doing?! you could have burned somebody!
speaker3: you know, if i had your power i'd be doing something with it, not wasting my time doing cheap bar tricks, hitting on some other guy's girl.

speaker1: ben, come in. 
speaker2: what is this? where's reed?
speaker1: where do you think? with sue.
speaker1: i'll take it from here, leonard.
speaker3: yes sir.
speaker2: what do you want, vic?
speaker1: to help you. i've run every test known to man. and they all yield the same result: the machine is ready.
speaker2: reed said it'd be weeks till --
speaker1: he also said we'd avoid that storm in space. and we know how that turned out.
speaker1: he couldn't generate enough power for the machine to reach critical mass. yet another mistake for "mr.
speaker2: and you can? power it up?
speaker1: yes. i've found a new energy source.
speaker1: tell me...do you want to be ben grimm again?
speaker2: let's do it.

speaker1: vic... what the...? 
speaker2: everyone thought i was safe behind those shields...
speaker1: victor, the machine worked for me. it can work for you --
speaker2: it did, ben. it worked perfectly.
speaker1: you planned this...?
speaker2: i've always wanted power. now i've got an unlimited supply...
speaker1: and no thing to stand in your way.
speaker2: take a good look, ben. this is what a man looks like who embraces his destiny.
speaker2: one down, three to go.
speaker2: right on cue.
speaker3: oh ben. are you okay? you did it, you really did it...
speaker2: no, reed. i did.
speaker3: victor...? what, what happened to you? what did you do to your --
speaker2: exactly what i said i would: i built a better, stronger being. and outsmarted the great reed richards --
speaker3: victor, this isn't the way to --

speaker1: mr. von doom? are you oka-- 
speaker2: never better, jimmy. and it's doctor doom now.

speaker1: ben?! 
speaker2: sue!
speaker2: i'm sorry, sis, for leaving you guys --
speaker1: no, i'm sorry, for pushing you out.
speaker2: ben! i go away, look what happens. you got a lot of explaining to do.
speaker3: the machine works. and vic's gone mister hyde on us --
speaker2: really? with a name like von doom? never saw that one coming.
speaker1: where is reed?
speaker3: victor must've taken him.

speaker1: chemistry 101, part two. what happens to rubber when it's super- cooled? 
speaker1: allow me.
speaker1: painful...?
speaker1: you don't know the meaning of the word.
speaker1: but you will.
speaker1: flame off.

speaker1: great. heat-seeker. 
speaker2: what are you doing --
speaker1: sis. let me take care of you for once.
speaker2: but johnny...you can't fly.
speaker1: well then this'll be one of a basejump.
speaker1: come on...come on...come on...

speaker1: sue watches, with fear, and a hint of pride. 
speaker2: we need to help reed -- sue shakes her head, sympathetic.
speaker3: ben, you got what we all wanted. you need to stay here. it's too dangerous.

speaker1: what has he done to you? 
speaker2: how romantic.
speaker1: victor, please --
speaker2: it's doctor doom to you.
speaker1: we know the machine works. it worked on ben, it'll work on you. we can turn you back --
speaker2: do you really think fate turned us into gods so we could refuse these gifts?
speaker1: victor. you always thought you were
speaker2: sue please, let's not fight.
speaker1: no, victor... let's.
speaker2: susan...... you're fired.
speaker2: marco...
speaker2: polo.

speaker1: one more down. now it's just the scientist and his specimen. 
speaker2: sue. the only thing i ever knew without thinking was... i...love...
speaker3: me too, reed.
speaker1: and so four became none. it's my time now.
speaker4: actually, vic...

speaker1: excuse me, maam. can i borrow your car? 
speaker2: the clutch sticks a little.
speaker1: not gonna be a problem.

speaker1: i can't let you do that. 
speaker2: and you can't stop me.
speaker2: hello susan.
speaker2: what is this? the pitiful three?
speaker1: four.
speaker3: had a little relapse, huh?
speaker3: welcome back.
speaker2: this is going to be fun.

speaker1: can't...hold...on... 
speaker2: johnny. supernova.
speaker3: but all these people...
speaker2: now.
speaker4: flame on, kid.
speaker2: sue, i need some of that anger, rage, frustration --
speaker5: is that the best you can do...? a little heat...?
speaker2: time for your lesson, vic. chem 101: what happens when you supercool hot metal...? ben...
speaker6: got it, teach.
speaker5: no.
speaker3: damn, i love this job.
speaker6: job, huh...?
speaker2: well, we do have the suits...
speaker1: you know, about what we said up there, i think maybe --
speaker6: funny how things turn out, isn't it?
speaker1: hilarious.

speaker1: dude, that's still my sister. 
speaker2: ben, i've been crunching the numbers on the machine. i think if we can rework the power settings...
speaker3: forget it, egghead. i'm good as is.
speaker4: that's my benny.
speaker4: we're going to have to work on your touch.
speaker3: i like the sound of that.
speaker2: sue, can i talk to you for a second?

speaker1: i found a broken gasket, from space -- 
speaker2: a gasket? reed, we're at a party.
speaker1: if one of us were to wear it...
speaker2: reed. what are you doing?
speaker1: no more thinking, no more variables... sue storm...will you... sue? sue? you there?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker1: that's my nose, genius... these are my lips.
speaker2: no more cracks about how i look.
speaker3: hey, i'm mr. sensitivity now. clear the way, wide load coming through.
speaker2: showoff.

