speaker1: she's waiting for someone. 
speaker2: probably waiting for me.
speaker1: the door's waiting for you if you don't get back to work.
speaker3: c'est vous, mademoiselle?

speaker1: oui. 
speaker2: they are following you cara.
speaker2: they think you'll lead them to me. but if you follow my instructions closely, there is a way for us to get away... cara scans the rest of the letter.
speaker3: mademoiselle! je vous en prie--
speaker2: take the 4:25 orient express to venice. en route select a man my approximate height and weight...

speaker1: what are you doing vincent? our train car is over here! 
speaker2: all aboard! all aboard the 4:25 is departing!

speaker1: ow! 
speaker2: sorry! excuse me. pardone moi.

speaker1: i think i'm going to need your help. 
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: my zipper... it's stuck.
speaker2: i'm afraid of hurting you.
speaker1: don't be afraid.
speaker2: i'm... sorry.
speaker1: it doesn't matter.

speaker1: maybe i should let you do this-- 
speaker2: don't give up so quickly.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: my name is frank.
speaker2: cara.
speaker3: will you and your wife take dinner here or in the dining car this evening, monsieur?
speaker1: pardon me? oh, no. we're not actually--
speaker2: the dining car would be lovely, thank you.

speaker1: are you ill? 
speaker2: what? no.
speaker2: just nervous. i don't like travelling.
speaker1: so you decided to take a holiday on the orient express?
speaker2: i'm on my honeymoon.
speaker1: your honeymoon?
speaker1: should we ask the waiter to set another place?
speaker2: she's in pennsylvania.

speaker1: you're sure you want to hear this? 
speaker2: if you'd like to tell me.
speaker1: two weeks ago she left me. for the owner of a pizza parlor.
speaker2: that's awful.
speaker1: no travel insurance. no refund on the tickets. so... here i am. on my honeymoon.
speaker2: i'm sorry, frank.
speaker1: i really loved that pizza too. "bala pizza" if you're ever in rosemont.
speaker2: i wouldn't touch it. i'm loyal to you.
speaker3: a cointreau for mademoiselle. and for monsieur... a "miller light."
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: what takes you to venice?
speaker2: you read spy novels.

speaker1: i'm a mysterious woman on a train. 
speaker2: okay... you'd be a diplomatic attachã© or... let's see... a girl from east germany whose father's been kidnapped by soviet agents. they're blackmailing you into stealing... probably a microchip. there's usually a microchip involved.
speaker1: what awaits me?
speaker2: trouble, certainly.
speaker1: danger?
speaker2: no doubt. you'll probably be shot at in less than two chapters.
speaker1: is there a man in my life?
speaker1: or a candidate for the job?
speaker2: maybe.

speaker1: we're putting a lot resources into this investigation, john. tell me you're going to get him this time. 
speaker2: we're going to get him this time, ms. jones.
speaker3: she's on the train. they'll be in venice in the morning.

speaker1: our target's name is alexander pearce. british citizen, born in london into an ordinary middle class family. the only thing remarkable about his childhood was a preternatural gift for numbers. 
speaker1: which he used to hack into a computer and fix the test results his final year at school.

speaker1: your mastermind couldn't pass his exams on his own? 
speaker2: he didn't fix his test scores; he fixed the scores for all the girls in the class. it made him very popular.
speaker2: what started as school pranks eventually became something much more serious. after a year in the training program at goldman sachs, he decided that gambling suited him better than working for a living. that, in turn, involved him with some rather unsavory people and ultimately led him to put his financial genius to work in his true calling: money laundering. quinn is the swiss interpol liaison. he speaks with the crisp accent of a man who is fluent in several languages.
speaker3: you've assembled quite a task force to catch a common money launderer, mr. ackerman.
speaker2: there is nothing common about alexander pearce. quiet simply, he has turned money laundering into an art form. his greatest innovation: the false lawsuit.
speaker2: pearce sets up two companies: one is a casino in arizona for example and the other is a shell company in the cayman islands.

speaker1: the cayman islands company files a lawsuit against the casino, claiming copyright infringement or some other complaint. they "succeed" in winning the case and the casino pays the shell company an enormous settlement. 
speaker2: the money travels from america to the cayman islands...
speaker1: yes, but now the money is legal.
speaker3: not quite legal. the i.r.s. has been cheated out of the revenue. we calculate that mr. pearce's tax bill currently stands at $743.7 million dollars.
speaker4: that explains what the american harridan is doing here.
speaker3: exactement, monsieur.
speaker1: mr. pearce has some other debts as well. most of you will recognize ivan demidov...
speaker1: ...pearce laundered over a billion dollars for demidov. at some point pearce decided he'd rather steal from demidov than help him steal.

speaker1: given demidov's ties to organized crime, i'd say that was a mistake. 
speaker2: the u.s. government is not participating in an investigation of a member of the russian parliament; our target is alexander pearce.
speaker1: of course.
speaker3: has mr. pearce ever been in custody?
speaker1: almost.

speaker1: finally. let's go. 
speaker2: they follow the team.

speaker1: i'll be ready in fifteen minutes. 
speaker2: cara pauses; she's heard something.

speaker1: you have nothing to say? 
speaker1: get her out of my sight.
speaker2: what does this alexander pearce look like?

speaker1: nobody knows. he disappeared after his escape. he's had extensive plastic surgery to alter his appearance since then. drug lord amado carillo did the same thing in the 90s to successfully elude authorities. 
speaker2: how do you know about it?
speaker1: pearce worked with no more than a few accomplices at one time. he treated them so well that they're virtually all completely loyal. none of them would cooperate. we've questioned the ones we could find, and the only thing we learned is that pearce apparently arranged it so even his own people have never seen him after the surgery.
speaker3: so nobody knows what he looks like?

speaker1: correct. 
speaker2: forgive me for saying so mr. ackerman, but he slipped away from you when you knew his whereabouts and his appearance... what makes you think you can catch him now?
speaker1: his girlfriend was recently released from custody. he'll come for her. we'll be waiting.
speaker3: what makes you so certain? ackerman clicks on a slide.
speaker1: he'll come for her.

speaker1: i was afraid i'd missed you. i wanted to ask where you're staying in venice... i'm supposed to catch a shuttle to my hotel but i thought maybe-- 
speaker2: i've got a better idea. she holds out her valise for him.

speaker1: you have a booking in the name of mason. 
speaker2: si, signorina.
speaker1: signora. that's my husband.
speaker2: very good, senora mason. welcome to the danieli. you are in the doge's-- our premiere suite. is there anything special you require?
speaker1: have a copy of today's herald tribune sent up to the room please.
speaker2: my pleasure, signora.
speaker2: mother of what a waste.

speaker1: the bedroom is through here. you have two bathrooms, here and here. there is a small kitchen which... 
speaker1: ...you may not need. there are two televisions, video, dvd, radio, hi fi sound system. and...
speaker1: is everything satisfactory?
speaker2: yes. thank you.
speaker1: then i will leave you.

speaker1: you like it? frank opens his mouth to answer. then laughs. 
speaker2: what's not to like?
speaker1: i'd have been bored here on my own. there's more than enough room for two.
speaker2: i can see that.
speaker1: i didn't ask for an extra bed...
speaker1: are you all right with the sofa? if you like, i can have them bring one up?
speaker2: no, no, no. the sofa's fine. perfect in fact.
speaker1: the luggage.
speaker2: i'll get it.

speaker1: i've put my things in the other bathroom. 
speaker2: have you ever been to venice before?
speaker2: then we need to go out.

speaker1: she's checked into the danieli... 
speaker2: good. maintain surveillance but keep your distance.

speaker1: take a seat, mr. quinn. can i offer you a glass of brunello? 
speaker2: no thank you, mr. demidov.
speaker1: you know i'd never admit this at home, but vodka is for peasants. there's much we could learn from the italians.

speaker1: tell me i'm not going to be disappointed. 
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker2: mr. demidov... if i may ask you a question... why do you care so much about alexander pearce? i mean, you've come here yourself... as if it were personal.
speaker1: it may be difficult for you to understand, mr. quinn; you swiss are mercenary by nature. but for some of us, there are things more important than money. i put my trust in alexander pearce. he betrayed that trust.
speaker1: and it's bad business to let somebody make a fool of you. if pearce gets away with it, what does that say about me?

speaker1: so... when you're not on a grand european tour, what do you do in rosemont, pennsylvania? 
speaker2: i'm a teacher. high school math. and you? what do you do?
speaker1: this is what i do, frank.
speaker2: you're good at it.
speaker1: oh look... a wedding. how lovely.
speaker2: i'm not really into weddings at this particular moment in my life...
speaker1: oh yes. i forgot.

speaker1: do you think it's really over? 
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: maybe she'll change her mind. women do. she might give you a second chance.
speaker2: i suppose that's a possibility. that's what i tell my statistics class anyway; life is a game of chance. endless possibilities and permutations. you just have to calculate the odds.
speaker1: you haven't answered the question.
speaker2: well... i'd like to think that love is a question of destiny, not chance...
speaker1: for a moment there you just reminded me of somebody.
speaker1: he had a way of dancing around a question so eloquently that you never noticed until later that he'd completely avoided the truth. his entire life was wrapped up in deception. he told so many lies, i wouldn't believe him even if he finally did tell the truth.
speaker2: he doesn't sound like much of a friend.

speaker1: he wasn't. 
speaker2: so why are you wearing his watch?
speaker1: you're smarter than you look, frank.
speaker1: and you're right. here, take it.
speaker2: what? no, i can't. this thing must be worth a fortune--
speaker1: i insist. you're doing me a favor. take it or i'll toss it in the ocean.
speaker2: i'll wear it until you regain your senses.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it suits you.

speaker1: you should leave venice tomorrow. it's a city for lovers frank; no place to recover from a failed engagement. she turns and walks toward her bedroom... 
speaker2: what... what did i do?
speaker1: nothing. i'm sorry.
speaker1: ...that's exactly what i'm doing, but now i want him to go...

speaker1: pardone signore. good morning. 
speaker1: la signora ordered this for you when she left.
speaker2: when she...?
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: it! i'm a tourist! 
speaker2: are ya mad?

speaker1: you can't let them stay over, man. you start cuddling and then she wants to borrow your car. stop cuddling, tomaso! 
speaker2: excuse me...
speaker1: hey, what are you doing in here?
speaker2: the officers told me to wait here. i've been sitting here for over two hours...
speaker1: i think they forgot about you.
speaker1: what happened to you, anyway?
speaker2: somebody tried to kill me.
speaker1: mr. taylor, wow, you had quite a day. eh? we got chasing, we got shooting.
speaker2: you think i'm crazy but it's all true.
speaker1: maybe you crazy and it's true, my friend.

speaker1: okay, so who are these guys? why they mad at you? 
speaker2: i have absolutely no idea.
speaker1: they followed you from the danieli?
speaker2: they came to the room. they pretended to be room service.
speaker1: you don't scopata one of their girlfriends or something?
speaker2: i didn't "scopata" anybody!
speaker1: who is...
speaker1: cara mason?
speaker1: i catch you, right?
speaker2: in america the cops catch the crooks, not the victim.
speaker1: ha ha, we do that sometimes here, too.
speaker1: is no domestic, then?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: how long you know cara mason?
speaker1: i met her yesterday.
speaker2: and you take her to the danieli? that must have been good meeting, yes?
speaker1: i didn't take her. she took me.
speaker2: you lead an exciting life, mr.
speaker1: not usually.
speaker2: signora mason was staying with "her husband" last night. you marry her, mr. taylor?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i think maybe signora mason might know why these guys behave badly. what do you think?
speaker1: i think that's possible.
speaker2: you got a phone number, mobile?
speaker1: she didn't give me one.
speaker3: domenico looks him over.
speaker2: you need some clothes. i'll be right back. he leaves frank alone again.

speaker1: here. put these on. time to go. 
speaker2: um... thanks. where are we going?
speaker1: i'm taking you to the hospital, mr. taylor. a doctor should take a look at you.

speaker1: i'd really rather just go-- 
speaker2: don't worry. i put you in padua, away from venice. you'll be safe. any worry, you call me. i give you my home number.

speaker1: unfortunately we've already re-let the room. we'd rather the guests didn't know about the incident. 
speaker2: don't worry. i'll be discreet.
speaker1: grazie.

speaker1: i beg your pardon, signore, but this is a police officer. he needs to briefly examine the room. 
speaker2: of course.
speaker2: what happened, officer?
speaker3: that's what i'm trying to find out, signore.
speaker2: you are a good detective.
speaker3: i do my best.
speaker3: sorry for the inconvenience. enjoy your stay.

speaker1: what did we find on the american? 
speaker2: he's a tourist. member of the teacher's union. pays his taxes.
speaker1: evidently. he had a pair of russian hit men after him. are you still going to tell me demidov is clean?
speaker2: i never said he is clean. i just said he isn't our target.
speaker3: i'm just wondering how they tracked them down at the hotel...
speaker1: just so long as they don't beat us to pearce when the real one arrives.
speaker1: where's the teacher now?

speaker1: the local police picked him up. 
speaker2: then he's safely out of the way.

speaker1: well it's official mr. taylor. 
speaker2: that's a relief.
speaker1: i went to the hotel. somebody shot at somebody. i found a shell casing. i'll have it analyzed in the morning.
speaker2: i'd like to be on a flight home tomorrow morning.
speaker1: relax, you're perfectly safe where you are. you have any visits from your signora mason?

speaker1: i wish. 
speaker2: never let them cuddle, mr. taylor. one cuddle and it all turns to merda. good night. if you need anything, you have my number. frank hangs up, shaking his head.

speaker1: did you miss me? 
speaker2: a little.

speaker1: um... you may not believe this but there are some people trying to kill me-- 
speaker2: i know. cara drives toward the ramp. he looks at her.
speaker1: do you know why?
speaker2: it's because i kissed you.

speaker1: that guy has nothing to do with this. 
speaker2: neither do you.
speaker2: okay. if you want to play hero...
speaker2: hold on.
speaker1: there's not enough room!
speaker2: there's enough room.

speaker1: we won't make it! 
speaker2: i thought americans were optimists.

speaker1: how do you know--? 
speaker2: the watch.
speaker1: i don't know. you're about his size. that's all.
speaker2: you don't know what your own boyfriend looks like?
speaker1: alexander crossed a very dangerous man. he changed his appearance in order to vanish.
speaker2: great.
speaker1: don't worry. i'm taking you somewhere you'll be safe.
speaker2: we should go to the police.
speaker1: because they did such a good job protecting you before?
speaker1: trust me.

speaker1: and i thought i wouldn't get to do any sight-seeing. 
speaker2: here we are.

speaker1: whoa! 
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: making sure no one sabotaged the gas lines.

speaker1: he goes barracuda fishing? 
speaker2: he goes marlin fishing. you catch the barracudas by accident.
speaker3: frank looks at the steak...

speaker1: and she left you for a cook? 
speaker1: mmmmm! that's decadent.
speaker2: with these ingredients, it's not hard.
speaker2: you know something? food tastes better after you've been shot at.
speaker1: i'm glad i decided to come back for you, frank taylor.
speaker2: can i ask you a question.
speaker2: what's it like? being a criminal?
speaker1: i'm not a criminal.

speaker1: you carry a gun, you consort with people being chased by killers... i hate to break it to you, but-- 
speaker2: okay, i'm a criminal.
speaker2: i didn't mean for things to turn out like this. i always lived by a certain code. but then... i broke it.
speaker1: for alexander pearce?
speaker1: what's he like?
speaker2: he's the most interesting man i've ever known. when i first met him, i wasn't expecting that. he took me by surprise.
speaker2: if i'd been prepared, i might not have loved him. but i wasn't. so i did.
speaker1: i don't regret it, you know.
speaker2: regret what?

speaker1: kissing you. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: i thought...
speaker2: you thought what? that i saw you on the train and my heart stopped? that all my life i've been waiting for a math teacher from the midwest to sweep me off my feet?
speaker2: i picked you because of your height. do you understand?

speaker1: yes... there was nothing there today. is... is it you? alexa-- 
speaker2: no names. not on the phone.

speaker1: it's been a busier weekend than i expected. 
speaker2: place him. place him!

speaker1: there's a recipe in a tuscan cookbook there i need. would you look it up for me? 
speaker2: do we really need another "recipe?"
speaker1: i want to make sure our guests are surprised.

speaker1: go! go! go! 
speaker2: that's because you leave everything up to me.
speaker2: i'm fine by the way, in case you were concerned about me.
speaker3: my only concern is for those who cross you, my love.

speaker1: you may not believe it, but every step of this miserable game is taken in the hope of earning your trust and ever-lasting regard. i mean that. 
speaker2: you have a talent for saying the right thing. you always did.

speaker1: we should check for prints. maybe he forgot to wipe it down... 
speaker2: i doubt it.

speaker1: frank... i have to go. 
speaker1: don't go out. all you need is here. in four or five days everything will be resolved...
speaker2: resolved?
speaker1: it will all be over. i'll give you the all clear and you can go back to your life. this will be a great adventure you can look back on.
speaker2: when will i see you again?
speaker1: never.
speaker1: good-bye, frank.

speaker1: is he worth it? 
speaker2: get back inside.

speaker1: you're going to risk everything for him. would he do the same for you? she is quite straightforward in her response. 
speaker2: it doesn't matter. i love him.
speaker1: he doesn't deserve it.
speaker2: none of this is your business anymore. now get back inside frank!
speaker3: signorina.
speaker2: mi dispiace, signor.

speaker1: don't look at me. i married my personal trainer. she's twenty-six. 
speaker2: how did pearce seduce that beautiful woman? was it his charm? his looks?
speaker3: looks change.
speaker2: maybe it's because if he adores himself and spends every moment gratifying his desires, so then can she.
speaker2: she can become a child again. who wouldn't want that?
speaker3: she's on the move. time to go.
speaker2: by all means. let's follow the children.

speaker1: when i was a young man, times were very hard. when an opportunity presented itself, you took it. 
speaker1: i was twelve years old when gregor asked me if i was ready for a man's job. he was the top chelovek in our housing block. so i said yes. he gave me a crowbar and told me to go bash in the skull of another boy who had stolen something from him.
speaker1: now it just so happened this boy was a friend of mine. i did not want to do this terrible thing. but when you come from the streets, you have no choice.
speaker1: i worked very hard for years to get past that life. so i would not have to do these terrible things. so i would have a choice...
speaker1: i have people like you to do these things for me...
speaker1: except that you don't!

speaker1: eh, we do not know any further...characteristics? 
speaker2: you know what we know.

speaker1: what is that fool doing in the middle of my operation? 
speaker2: time for alexander and me to meet face to face.
speaker3: i don't know what you're talking about. please go, i'd like to have a quiet coffee.

speaker1: move off. move off. 
speaker1: get rid of him!

speaker1: caffe, per favore? 
speaker2: cameriere! no caffe for signor!
speaker1: with milk!
speaker2: do you want to be dead?
speaker1: not particularly, but i'm tired of being afraid. i've been running around like a frightened mouse long enough and i've decided i'm finished.

speaker1: when i first saw the name i got scared: "alexander pearce." he even sounds like some super cool master criminal with russian enemies and the beautiful girlfriend... he probably works out. he might own a pizza shop on the side for all i know. 
speaker1: these are disgusting.
speaker2: he's not going anywhere.
speaker3: put lipetti in. tell him to play it like he's dealing with a rowdy guest-- him out.
speaker4: frank, you have no idea what you're sticking your nose into.
speaker1: probably not. but i'm doing it anyway. alexander pearce nearly got me killed. it was his idea, right?

speaker1: he told you to pick out some random sap on the train to take a bullet for him, didn't he? 
speaker1: well i'm not playing the role anymore. i'm going to confront him. he's supposed to meet you here, isn't he? i'm going to tell him exactly what i think of him.
speaker2: wonderful. another macho conto, per favore!
speaker1: what's the lure, cara? obviously not his character. is it the money? the luxury? what's any of that worth if you're getting shot at and you could go to jail?
speaker2: i'm leaving frank.
speaker1: he's smooth, right? he probably has mistresses in every european city, too.
speaker2: it's really a shame you've scared him off-- she tosses some euros on the table.
speaker2: the two of you make a nice couple.

speaker1: what the hell? as frank looks up. 
speaker1: is this him?
speaker2: frank!
speaker3: abort! abort, goddammit!
speaker4: the undercover waiter tries to move past frank.
speaker1: you hide out poolside and send your girlfriend and a total stranger to face the murderers who are after you? not much of a tough guy, are you?

speaker1: that fool. 
speaker2: what do we do with him?
speaker1: throw him in the lagoon.

speaker1: please... 
speaker1: nice suit.
speaker2: it's borrowed.
speaker1: it's a good fit.
speaker2: unfortunately.

speaker1: police... better than the alternative i suppose. 
speaker1: who's watching from behind there?
speaker2: you have a vivid imagination.
speaker1: i haven't needed it lately.
speaker1: you're in for a disappointment.
speaker2: i know that.
speaker1: since when?
speaker2: since the beginning.
speaker1: how...?
speaker2: come. i want to show you something frank.

speaker1: take a good look. 
speaker2: you?
speaker1: take a look at the second row. insert close up on the screen.
speaker2: cara...
speaker1: we've been watching you this entire time.
speaker2: you saw those men try to kill me and you didn't intervene?

speaker1: i'm trying to apprehend a major criminal. i'm not a babysitter. 
speaker2: i want to speak with somebody at the american embassy. i'm going to tell them that you and your undercover officer knowingly and recklessly endangered the life of an american citizen! let's see what my government has to say about that!
speaker3: we're aware of the situation, mr. taylor. but we take a long view of these things... fortunately you are unhurt...
speaker2: then i'll go to the press. i'll tell the entire story to the new york times.
speaker1: no. i don't think you'll do that.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because i don't think you want to see cara's entire career destroyed.
speaker1: espresso?

speaker1: women like cara don't come along very often. 
speaker2: in my case, they don't come along at all.
speaker1: she's the worst combination: stunning looks and a brilliant mind.
speaker2: if she's so smart, how did she get caught up with pearce?
speaker1: it started out as a straightforward placement...

speaker1: she was no longer with us. she was with him. 
speaker1: she explains it now as the confusion of her new life outside the academy. that i misread her capacity for this kind of work.
speaker2: then why are you still using her?
speaker1: she's all i have, mr. taylor.
speaker2: you think she'll turn him in this time?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker1: i do know however, that you are very smitten with her.
speaker2: it's not just me, is it?

speaker1: cara? where have you been? 
speaker2: ackerman on the phone at his office.
speaker3: have you got him?
speaker1: you mean the who ruined our operation?
speaker3: have you got him?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: it's your own fault. we never should have endangered a civilian. you should have put an agent into place.
speaker1: there was no time. besides pearce is too smart for that; he would have spotted the agent a mile away.
speaker3: he didn't spot me.
speaker1: apparently he didn't have to.

speaker1: i'm sorry cara. that was uncalled for. 
speaker1: i'm on edge because of our failure today. if only the american hadn't messed everything up... i felt sure pearce would show up today.
speaker2: what makes you think he didn't?

speaker1: okay everybody, listen up. 
speaker1: we have a location and time for the next meet. pearce's villa. eight o'clock. we have to move fast--
speaker2: pearce's own villa? why would he risk going back there? he must know we'd be watching.
speaker3: perhaps he's nostalgic.
speaker1: i doubt that. maybe there's something of value still there.
speaker2: call in a search team.

speaker1: we searched the place after the raid last year. if there's anything hidden there, only pearce knows where it is. 
speaker1: we need to get agents in place all around the villa.
speaker2: if you're all around his house, will he show up?
speaker1: if i needed your advice mr. taylor, i'd ask. frank shrinks down in his chair.
speaker1: establish a wide perimeter. we'll keep our distance and wire the entire villa for video surveillance.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: it's okay. come over here. i need your help.
speaker2: ackerman told me everything.
speaker1: i'm sorry frank.
speaker2: there's no apology necessary.
speaker1: how do i look?
speaker2: like the most beautiful woman on earth.
speaker1: when will you go home?

speaker1: ackerman asked me to stay with the surveillance team in case the thugs who came after me at the danieli show up. i'm the only one who can identify them. 
speaker1: did you tell him to keep an eye on me?
speaker2: i told him to make sure you were safe until this was over.
speaker1: you shouldn't worry about me.
speaker2: what about me?
speaker1: what are you going to do? she takes a beat, then puts her game face on.
speaker2: my job.

speaker1: you all read the same newspaper. 
speaker2: it's a good paper. and sold throughout the world. makes the classified ads especially useful...
speaker2: since the internet came about, hardly anybody uses old school methods like that to communicate anymore. except alexander pearce. no lines to tap. no signals to intercept. he's a very clever man, your double.
speaker1: i look forward to meeting him.
speaker2: so do i.

speaker1: who's that? 
speaker2: what happened? get it back on line!
speaker3: was that pearce?
speaker4: how did he know there would be a camera?
speaker3: he's taking out the entire surveillance system--
speaker2: stop him.
speaker5: i can't! he's cutting the feed at the source.

speaker1: how can one man move through the house that fast? 
speaker2: what should we do?
speaker3: shut up! everyone.
speaker3: do we still have audio?
speaker3: turn it up.
speaker4: alexander?

speaker1: sorry to disappoint you, my dear. he steps toward her. 
speaker2: who is that?
speaker1: how are you this evening?
speaker3: fine, thank you.
speaker4: the accent is russ--
speaker5: shh! it's ivan demidov.
speaker2: not possible.

speaker1: you're waiting for someone, ms. mason? 
speaker1: you haven't seen alexander pearce in a long time, yes? i'm sure it will be a touching reunion.

speaker1: if you don't mind, we'll keep you company while you wait. 
speaker2: what are we going to do?
speaker3: we're going to wait for alexander pearce. just like them.

speaker1: she's brought them to the window... 
speaker1: ...there are three of them.
speaker2: not very polite of your boyfriend to keep you waiting.
speaker3: he loses track of time easily.
speaker2: i have a hard time believing that. perhaps he's already here somewhere... hiding... even watching us.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: everyone in the room flinches.
speaker1: you know... i have a feeling he is around here somewhere. and if he cares about you... if he wants to see your lovely face again... he should show up before it's too late.
speaker3: sir?
speaker4: demidov's right. he's here somewhere... another slap. another scream.
speaker5: we have to do something--
speaker4: we have to wait.
speaker5: yes but--
speaker4: she's my agent. she's my responsibility.

speaker1: what if he doesn't come? ackerman doesn't respond. 
speaker2: where's taylor?

speaker1: that's not alexander pearce. 
speaker2: you know, mr. pearce, i thought i was finished with this sort of thing. but in your case, i've been forced to make an exception.
speaker1: he is not alexander pearce!
speaker1: oh frank... i'm so sorry.
speaker3: nothing to be sorry for.
speaker2: good bye mr. pearce.
speaker1: ackerman!

speaker1: are you all right? 
speaker2: i did well to choose you on the train...
speaker1: you didn't get to arrest alexander pearce...
speaker2: he never showed up.

speaker1: you're wrong. i'm here. 
speaker1: it's me. i'm here.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: you said i'd told so many lies, you wouldn't believe me even if i did tell the truth... this was the only way to convince you. the truth is that i love you. all that matters is that you believe me.

speaker1: cara... i want the paramedics to make sure you're all right-- 
speaker1: cara... she pauses. turns to face him.
speaker1: i'm sorry... i... we'll talk about this later.
speaker2: no we won't. there's nothing to talk about. i don't work for you anymore.
speaker1: mr. taylor... you're free to go.
speaker1: it seems i underestimated you.
speaker3: it seems you did, mr. ackerman.

speaker1: he was here. 
speaker2: account numbers... access codes... unless i'm mistaken... he left the money behind.
speaker3: a mistake perhaps?
speaker4: how much is there?
speaker2: looks like 744 million.
speaker4: that's no mistake... that's his tax bill.
speaker4: i'll take that.

speaker1: well john... with the funds recovered, i don't think there's going to be any appetite from our side to continue this investigation. 
speaker1: i'm sorry you didn't get your man.
speaker2: oh but i did get my man, ms. jones. she realizes; he was after demidov all along. ackerman nods to goyal, a twinkle in his eye.
speaker2: mr. goyal, you may place mr. quinn under arrest now.
speaker2: what? you thought i didn't know? you were unwittingly quite helpful; without you mr. demidov might have escaped justice.
speaker2: after all, demidov wasn't a target of this investigation, was he?

speaker1: there's something i don't 
speaker2: because pearce was cleverer than all of us.

speaker1: $20 million dollars worth of surgery and that's the face you chose? 
speaker2: it's good to see you too.

speaker1: you really think they'll just give up? 
speaker2: the americans have their money. i left it all for them.
speaker1: what about demidov's money?
speaker2: well...

