speaker1: hello...what?...no, i don't work today...i'm playing hockey at two. 
speaker1: why don't you call randal?... because i'm tired....i just closed last night.... jesus...what time are you going to come in?...twelve...be there be twelve?...swear...
speaker1: swear you'll be in by twelve and i'll do it....twelve...twelve or i walk.
speaker2: next time, i get the bed.
speaker3: he releases the dog and sits up.
speaker2: 

speaker1: thanks. have a good one. 
speaker2: do you mind if i drink this here?
speaker1: sure. go ahead.
speaker3: are you open?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: pack of cigarettes.
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker3: am i sure?
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker3: am i sure about what?
speaker2: do you really want to buy those cigarettes?
speaker3: are you serious?
speaker2: how long have you been smoking?
speaker3: what is this, a poll?
speaker1: beats me.

speaker1: how long have you been a smoker? 
speaker2: since i was thirteen.
speaker1: i'd say you're about nineteen, twenty, am i right?
speaker2: what the is that?
speaker1: that's your lung. by this time, your lung looks like this.
speaker2: you're shittin' me.
speaker1: you think i'm you...
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: it's a trach ring. it's what they install in your throat when throat cancer takes your voice box. this one came out of a sixty-year-old man.
speaker2: unnhh!
speaker1: he smoked until the day he died. used to put the cigarette in this thing and smoke it that way.
speaker3: excuse me, but...

speaker1: this is where you're heading. a cruddy lung, smoking through a hole in your throat. do you really want that? 
speaker2: well, if it's already too late...
speaker1: it's never too late. give those cigarettes back now, and buy some gum instead. here. chewlies gum. try this.
speaker2: it's not the same.
speaker1: it's cheaper than cigarettes. and it certainly beats this.
speaker2: 
speaker1: it's a picture of a cancer-ridden lung. keep it.
speaker2: i'll just take the gum.
speaker3: fifty-five.
speaker1: you've made a wise choice. keep up the good work.
speaker3: maybe you should take that coffee outside.
speaker1: no, i think i'll drink it in here, thanks.

speaker1: if you're going to drink it in here, i'd appreciate it if you'd not bother the customers. 
speaker2: okay. i'm sorry about that.
speaker3: pack of cigarettes. what's that?
speaker2: this? how long have you been smoking?

speaker1: i feel good today, silent bob. we're gonna make some money! and then you know what we're going to do? we're going to go to that party and get some pussy! i'm gonna this that 
speaker1: what you looking at?! i'll kick your ass! doesn't that still owe me ten bucks?

speaker1: tonight, you and me are going off that fucker's head, and take out his soul! remind me if he tries to buy something from us, to cut it with leafs and twigs...or in the bag! 
speaker1: wa sup sluts? silent bob! you one rude but you're cute as hell. i wanna go down on you, and suckle you. and then, i wanna line up three more guys, and make like a circus seal...
speaker1: ewwww! you faggot! i hate guys!
speaker2: you selling?
speaker1: i got hits, hash, weed, and later on i'll have 'shrooms. we take cash, or stolen mastercard and visa.

speaker1: you're spending what? twenty, thirty dollars a week on cigarettes. 
speaker2: forty.
speaker3: fifty-three.
speaker1: fifty-three dollars. would you pay someone that much money every week to kill you? because that's what you're doing now, by paying for the so-called privilege to smoke!
speaker4: we all gotta go sometime...
speaker1: it's that kind of mentality that allows this cancer-producing industry to thrive. of course we're all going to die someday, but do we have to pay for it? do we have to actually throw hard-earned dollars on a counter and say, "please, please, mister merchant of death, sir; please sell me something that will give me bad breath, stink up my clothes, and fry my lungs."
speaker2: it's not that easy to quit.
speaker1: of course it's not; not when you have people like this mindless cretin so happy and willing to sell you nails for your coffin!
speaker5: hey, now wait a sec...
speaker1: now he's going to launch into his rap about how he's just doing his job; following orders.

speaker1: friends, let me tell you about another bunch of hate mongers that were just following orders: they were called nazis, and they practically wiped a nation of people from the earth...just like cigarettes are doing now! cigarette smoking is the new holocaust, and those that partake in the practice of smoking or sell the wares that promote it are the nazis of the nineties! he doesn't care how many people die from it! he smiles as you pay for your cancer sticks and says, "have a nice day." 
speaker2: i think you'd better leave now.
speaker1: you want me to leave? why? because somebody is telling it like it is? somebody's giving these fine people a wake-up call?!
speaker2: you're loitering in here, and causing a disturbance.
speaker1: you're the disturbance, pal! and here... i'm buying some...what's this?...chewlie's gum. there. i'm no longer loitering. i'm a customer, a customer engaged in a discussion with other customers.
speaker3: yeah, now shut up so he can speak!
speaker1: oh, he's scared now! he sees the threat we present! he smells the changes coming, and the loss of sales when the nonsmokers finally demand satisfaction. we demand the right to breathe cleaner air!

speaker1: yeah! 
speaker2: we'd rather chew our gum than embrace slow death! let's abolish this heinous practice of sucking poison, and if it means ruffling the feathers of a convenience store then so be it!
speaker3: that's it, everybody out.
speaker2: we're not moving! we have a right, a constitutional right, to assemble and be heard!
speaker3: yeah, but not in here.
speaker2: what better place than this? to stamp it out, you gotta start at the source!
speaker3: like i'm responsible for all the smokers!
speaker2: the ones in this town, yes! you encourage their growth, their habit. you're the source in this area, and we're going to shut you down for good! for good, cancer-merchant!
speaker4: cancer merchant! cancer merchant! cancer merchant!
speaker5: who's leading this mob?

speaker1: that guy. 
speaker2: freeze.
speaker2: let's see some credentials.
speaker2: slowly...
speaker2: you're a chewlie's gum representative?
speaker2: and you're stirring up all this antismoking sentiment to...what?...sell more gum?
speaker2: get out of here.
speaker3: veronica watches the crowd disperse, disgusted.
speaker2: you oughta be ashamed of yourselves. easily led automatons. try thinking for yourself before you pelt and innocent man with cigarettes.
speaker2: it looked like tiananmen square in here for a second.
speaker2: "thank you, veronica; you saved me from an extremely ugly mob scene." dante remains silent.
speaker2: okay, champ. what's wrong?
speaker2: all right, stupid question. but don't you think you're taking this a bit too hard?
speaker4: too hard?! i don't have enough indignities in my life-people start throwing cigarettes at me!
speaker2: at least they weren't lit.
speaker4: i hate this place.
speaker2: then quit. you should be going to school anyway...
speaker4: please, veronica. last thing i need is a lecture at this point.

speaker1: all i'm saying is that if you're unhappy you should leave. 
speaker2: i'm not even supposed to be here today!
speaker1: i know. i stopped by your house and your mom said you left at like six or something.
speaker2: the guy got sick and couldn't come in.
speaker1: don't you have a hockey game at two?
speaker2: yes! and i'm going to play like because i didn't get a good night's sleep!
speaker1: why did you agree to come in then?
speaker2: i'm only here until twelve, then i'm gone. the boss is coming in.
speaker1: why don't you open the shutters and get some sunlight in here?
speaker2: somebody jammed the locks with gum.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: bunch of savages in this town.
speaker1: you look bushed. what time did you get to bed?
speaker2: i don't know-like two-thirty, three.
speaker1: what were you doing up so late?

speaker1: hunhh? nothing. 
speaker2: what were you doing?
speaker1: nothing! i gotta fight with you now?
speaker2: who's fighting? why are you so defensive?
speaker1: who's defensive? just...would you just hug me?! all right? your boyfriend was accosted by an angry mob, and he needs to be hugged.
speaker1: what? what is that?
speaker2: she called you, didn't she?
speaker1: oh, be real! would you...would you please hug me? i just went through a very traumatic experience and i haven't been having the best day so far. now come on.
speaker1: what? what's with that look?! i wasn't talking to anyone, especially her! look at you, being all sort of...i don't know...stand-offish.
speaker1: fine. you don't trust me, don't hug me. i see how it is. all right pissy-pants, you just go on being suspicious and quiet. i don't even want to hug you at this point.
speaker3: veronica looks back at him.
speaker1: give you a dollar?

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker2: how much money did you leave up there?
speaker1: like three dollars in mixed change and a couple of singles. people only get the paper of coffee this time of morning.
speaker2: you're trusting.
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker2: how do you know they're taking the right amount of change? or even paying for what they take?
speaker1: theoretically, people see money on the counter and nobody around, they think they're being watched.
speaker2: honesty through paranoia. why do you smell like shoe polish?

speaker1: i had to use shoe polish to make that sign. the smell won't come off. 
speaker2: do you think anyone can see us down here?
speaker1: why? you wanna have or something?
speaker2: ooh! can we?!
speaker1: really?
speaker2: i was kidding.
speaker1: yeah, right. you can't get enough of me.
speaker2: typically male point of view.
speaker1: how do you figure?
speaker2: you show some bedroom proficiency, and you think you're gods. what about what we do for you?
speaker1: women? women, as lovers, are all basically the same: they just have to be there.
speaker2: "be there?"
speaker1: making a male climax is not all that challenging: insert somewhere close and preferably moist; thrust; repeat.
speaker2: how flattering.

speaker1: now, making a woman cum...therein lies a challenge. 
speaker2: oh, you think so?
speaker1: a girl makes a guy cum, it's standard. a guy makes a girl cum, it's talent.
speaker2: and i actually date you?
speaker1: something wrong?
speaker2: i'm insulted. believe me, don juan, it takes more than that to get a guy off. just "being there"-as you put it-is not enough.
speaker1: i touched a nerve.
speaker2: i'm astonished to hear you trivialize my role in our life.
speaker1: it wasn't directed at you. i was making a broad generalization.
speaker2: you were making a generalization about "broads!"
speaker1: these are my opinions based on my experiences with the few women who were good enough to sleep with me.
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: how many what?
speaker2: how many girls have you slept with?

speaker1: how many different girls? didn't we already have this discussion once? 
speaker2: we might have; i don't remember.
speaker1: including you?
speaker2: it better be up to and including me.
speaker1: twelve.
speaker2: you've slept with twelve different girls?
speaker1: including you; yes.
speaker1: what the was that for?
speaker2: you're a pig.
speaker1: why'd you hit me?
speaker2: do you know how many different men i've had with?
speaker1: do i get to hit you after you tell me?
speaker2: three.
speaker1: three?
speaker2: three including you.

speaker1: you've only had with three different people? 
speaker2: i'm not the pig you are.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: you!
speaker1: no; who were the three, besides me?
speaker2: john franson and rob stanslyk.
speaker1: wow. that's great. that's something to be proud of.
speaker2: i am. and that's why you should feel like a pig. you men make me sick. you'll sleep with anything that says yes.
speaker1: animal, vegetable, or mineral.
speaker2: vegetable meaning paraplegic.
speaker1: they put up the least amount of struggle.
speaker2: after dropping a bombshell like that, you owe me. big.
speaker1: all right. name it.
speaker2: i want you to come with me on monday.
speaker1: where?

speaker1: to school. there's a seminar about getting back into a scholastic program after a lapse in enrollment. 
speaker2: can't we ever have a discussion without that coming up?
speaker1: it's important to me, dante. you have so much potential that just goes to waste in this pit. i wish you'd go back to school.
speaker2: would you stop? you make my head hurt when you talk about this.
speaker2: why are we getting up?
speaker1: unlike you, i have a class in forty-five minutes.
speaker1: willam!
speaker3: ronnie! how are you? you work here now?
speaker1: no, i'm just visiting my man. dante, this is willam black. this is dante hicks, my boyfriend.
speaker2: how are you? just the soda?
speaker3: and a pack of cigarettes. are you still going to seton hall?

speaker1: no, i transferred into monmouth this year. i was tired of missing him. 
speaker2: do you still talk to sylvan?
speaker1: i just talked to her on monday. we still hang out on weekends.
speaker2: that's cool. well-you two lovebirds take it easy, all right?
speaker1: i will. take it easy.
speaker2: bye.
speaker1: bye that was snowball.
speaker3: why do you call him that?
speaker1: sylvan made it up. it's a blow job thing.
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker1: after he gets a blow job, he likes to have the spit back into his mouth while kissing. it's called snowballing.
speaker3: he requested this?
speaker1: he gets off on it.

speaker1: sylvan can be talked into anything. 
speaker2: why do you say that?
speaker1: like you said-she snowballed him.
speaker2: sylvan? no; i snowballed him.
speaker1: yeah, right.
speaker2: i'm serious...
speaker1: you sucked that guy's dick?
speaker2: yeah. how do you think i know he liked...
speaker1: but...but you said you only had with three guys! you never mentioned him!
speaker2: that's because i never had with him!
speaker1: you sucked his
speaker2: we went out a few times. we didn't have sex, but we fooled around.
speaker1: oh my why did you tell me you only slept with three guys?
speaker2: because i did only sleep with three guys! that doesn't mean i didn't just go with people.

speaker1: oh my god-i feel so nauseous... 
speaker2: i'm sorry, dante. i thought you understood.
speaker1: i did understand! i understand that you slept with three different guys, and that's all you said.
speaker2: please calm down.
speaker1: how many?
speaker2: dante...
speaker1: how many have you sucked?!
speaker2: let it go...

speaker1: all right! shut up a second and i'll tell you! i didn't freak like this when you told me how many girls you 
speaker2: this is different. this is important. how many?!
speaker2: well...?
speaker1: something like thirty-six.

speaker1: lower your voice! 
speaker2: what the is that anyway, "something like thirty-six?" does that include me?
speaker1: um. thirty-seven.

speaker1: i'm going to class. 
speaker2: thirty-seven?! my girlfriend sucked thirty-seven dicks!
speaker3: in a row?
speaker2: hey! where are you going?!
speaker1: hey listen, jerk! until today you never even knew how many guys i'd slept with, because you never even asked. and then you act all nonchalant about twelve different girls. well, i never had with twelve different guys!
speaker2: no, but you sucked enough
speaker1: yeah, i went down on a few guys...
speaker2: a few?

speaker1: ...and one of those guys was you! the last one, i might add, which-if you're too stupid to comprehend- means that i've been faithful to you since we met! all the other guys i went with before i met you, so, if you want to have a complex about it, go ahead! but don't look at me like i'm the town whore, because you were plenty busy yourself, before you met me! 
speaker2: well...why did you have to their dicks? why didn't you just sleep with them, like any decent person?!
speaker1: because going down it's a big deal! i used to like a guy, we'd make out, and sooner or later i'd go down on him. but i only had with the guys i loved.
speaker2: i feel sick.
speaker1: i love you. don't feel sick.
speaker2: every time i kiss you now i'm going to taste thirty-six other guys.
speaker1: i'm going to school. maybe later you'll be a bit more rational.
speaker2: thirty-seven. i just can't...
speaker1: goodbye, dante.

speaker1: i thought that place was supposed to be opened at eleven o'clock? 
speaker2: i called his house twice already.
speaker1: it's not like it's a demanding job. i'd like to get paid to sit on my and watch tv. the other day i walked in there and that was sleeping.
speaker2: i'm sure he wasn't sleeping.
speaker1: you calling me a liar?
speaker2: no; he was probably just resting his eyes.
speaker1: what the is that? resting his eyes! it's not like he's some air traffic controller!
speaker2: actually, that's his night job.

speaker1: such a wiseass. but go ahead. crack wise. that's why you're jockeying a register in some local convenience store instead of doing an honest day's work. i got no more time to around waiting for that you make sure this gets back. the number's eight-twelve-wynarski. and i wanted to get a movie, too. 
speaker2: if you'll just tell me the title of your rental choice, i'll have him hold it for you.
speaker1: don't hurt yourself. i'm going to big choice video instead.
speaker2: you forgot your keys.

speaker1: the guy ain't here yet. 
speaker2: you're kidding. it's almost eleven- thirty!
speaker1: i know. i've been here since eleven.
speaker2: man! i hate it when i can't rent videos!

speaker1: i would've went to big choice, but the tape i want is right there on the wall. 
speaker2: which one?
speaker1: dental school.
speaker2: you came for that too? that's the movie i came for.
speaker1: i have first dibs.
speaker2: says who?
speaker1: says me. i've been here for half an hour. i'd call that first dibs.
speaker2: ain't gonna happen, my friend. i'm getting that tape.
speaker1: like you are!
speaker2: i'll bet you twenty bucks you don't get to rent that tape.
speaker1: twenty bucks?
speaker2: twenty bucks.
speaker1: all right, asshole, you're on.
speaker3: you see a pair of keys lying around here somewhere?

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: what the are you doing here? i thought you were playing hockey at one.
speaker1: the boss called. arthur fell ill.
speaker2: why are the shutters closed?
speaker1: someone jammed gum in the locks.
speaker2: bunch of savages in this town.
speaker1: that's what i said.
speaker2: if i'd known you were working, i would've come even later.
speaker2: what time do you have to stay till?
speaker1: he assured me that he'd be here by twelve.
speaker2: what smells like shoe polish?
speaker1: go open the sore.

speaker1: hey-did you see a set of keys lying around here? 
speaker2: no time for love, doctor jones!
speaker1: kids.

speaker1: some guy just came in refusing to pay late fees. he said the store was closed for two hours yesterday. 
speaker2: shocking abuse of authority.
speaker1: i'm a firm believer in the philosophy of a ruling class, especially since i rule. is the pelican flying?
speaker2: don't screw with it. it makes us look suspicious.
speaker1: i can't stand a voyeur. i'll be back.
speaker3: randal heads toward the walk-in door.

speaker1: want something to drink? i'm buying. 
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker1: who was on your phone this morning at about two-thirty? i was trying to call for a half an hour.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i wanted to use your car.
speaker1: snake cake?
speaker2: you don't want to know.

speaker1: you called caitlin again? 
speaker2: she called me.
speaker1: did you tell veronica?
speaker2: one fight a day with veronica is about all i can stomach, thanks.
speaker1: what do you two fight about?
speaker2: i guess it's not really fighting. she just wants me to leave here, go back to school, get some direction.
speaker1: i'll bet the most frequent topic of arguments is caitlin bree.
speaker2: you win.
speaker1: i'm going to offer you some advice, my friend: let the past be the past. forget caitlin bree. you've been with veronica for how long now?
speaker2: seven months.
speaker1: chick's nuts about you. how long did you date caitlin?
speaker2: five years.
speaker1: chick only made you nuts. she cheated on you how many times?
speaker2: eight and a half.

speaker1: eight and a half? 
speaker2: party at john k's-senior year. i get blitzed and pass out in his bedroom. caitlin comes in and dives all over me.
speaker1: that's cheating?
speaker2: in the middle of it, she calls me brad.
speaker1: she called you brad?
speaker2: she called me brad.
speaker1: that's not cheating. people say crazy during sex. one time, i called this girl "mom."
speaker2: i hit the lights and she freaks. turns out she thought i was brad michaelson.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: she was supposed to meet brad michaelson in a bedroom. she picked the wrong one. she had no idea i was even at the party.
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: great story, isn't it?
speaker1: that girl was vile to you.

speaker1: interesting postscript to that story: do you know who wound up going with brad michaelson in the other dark bedroom? 
speaker2: your mother.
speaker1: allan harris.
speaker2: chess team allan harris?!
speaker1: the two moved to idaho together after graduation. they raise sheep.
speaker2: that's frightening.
speaker1: it takes different strokes to move the world.
speaker2: in light of this lurid tale, i don't see how you could even romanticize your relationship with caitlin-she broke your heart and inadvertently drove men to deviant lifestyles.
speaker1: because there was a lot of good in our relationship.
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker1: i'm serious. aside from the cheating, we were a great couple. that's what high school's all about-algebra, bad lunch, and infidelity.
speaker2: you think things would be any different now?

speaker1: they are. when she calls me now, she's a different person-she's frightened and vulnerable. she's about to finish college and enter the real world. that's got to be scary for anyone. 
speaker2: oh i've got to place an order.
speaker1: i'm talking to myself here.
speaker2: no, no, i'm listening. she's leaving college, and...?
speaker1: ...and she's looking to me for support. and i think that this is leading our relationship to a new level.
speaker2: what about veronica?
speaker1: i think the arguments veronica and i are having are some kind of manifestation of a subconscious desire to break away from her so that i can pursue the possibility of a more meaningful relationship with caitlin.
speaker2: caitlin's on the same wave-length?
speaker1: i think it's safe to say yes.
speaker2: then i think all four of you had better sit down and talk it over.
speaker1: all four?
speaker2: you, veronica, caitlin... ...and caitlin's fiancã©.

speaker1: yes, i'd like to place an order, please...thank you. 
speaker2: excuse me, but do you see videotapes?
speaker1: what were you looking for?
speaker2: it's called happy scrappy-the hero pup.
speaker3: happy scrappy!
speaker1: i'm on the phone with the distribution house now. let me make sure they have it. what's it called again?
speaker2: happy scrappy-the hero pup.
speaker3: happy scrappy!
speaker2: she loves the tape.
speaker1: obviously. yes, hello; this is r.s.t. video calling. customer number four- three-five-zero-two-nine. i'd like to place an order...okay...

speaker1: i need one each of the following tapes: whisper in the wind, to each his own, put it where it doesn't belong, my pipes need cleaning, all tit-fucking, volume eight, i need your cock, ass-worshipping rim- jobbers, my and eight shafts, clean, cum-gargling naked sluts, buns three, in a sock, on eileen, huge black with pearly white cum, slam it up my too-loose ass, blasters in outer space, by betsy, sucking and finger my ass, play with my puss, three on a dildo, girls who crave cock, girls who crave men alone two-the k.y. connection, pink lips, and all holes filled with hard cock. oh, and... what was the name of that movie? 
speaker2: happy scrappy-the hero pup.
speaker1: and a copy of happy scrappy-the hero pup...okay, thanks. sixteen forty-nine. it'll be here monday.
speaker3: 

speaker1: yes, i'd like to check on a misprint in today's edition...today's edition...it says "bree to wed asian design major...no, no; everything's spelled fine. i just wanted to know if the piece was a misprint...i don't know, like a typographical error or something... 
speaker1: maybe it's supposed to be caitlin bray, or caitlin bre, with one e...i'm a curious party...a curious party...
speaker1: ...i'm an ex-boyfriend...well, it's just that we talk all the time, and she never mentioned this engagement, which is why i'm thinking maybe it's a misprint...
speaker1: ...are you sure?...maybe there's like a vindictive printer working for you...
speaker1: meaning like someone who maybe-i don't know-asked her out once and got shot down, and his revenge is throwing this bogus article in when the paper went to press...hello?...hello?

speaker1: "not in me." that's what she says. i gotta pull out and spank it to get it on. so i blow a nut on her belly, and i get out of there, just as my uncle walks in. it was such a close call. i tell you what, though, i don't care if she is my cousin, i'm gonna knock those boots again tonight. 
speaker1: oh look who it is. the human vacuum.
speaker2: scumbag. what are you doing?
speaker1: nothing. just hanging out with silent bob and his cousin.
speaker2: he's your cousin?
speaker1: check this out, he's from russia.
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: i swear to silent bob, am i lying?
speaker1: see? and silent bob never told a lie in his life.
speaker3: what part of russia?

speaker1: i don't know. what am i, his biographer? olaf, what part of russia are you from? 
speaker2: home.
speaker3: moscow.
speaker4: he only speaks russian?
speaker1: he knows some english, but he can't not speak it good like we do.
speaker5: is he staying here?
speaker1: he's moving to the big city next week. he wants to be a metal singer.
speaker4: no way!
speaker1: swear. olaf, metal!
speaker1: that's his metal face. olaf, girls nice?
speaker3: skrelnick.
speaker1: that's up.

speaker1: what did he say? 
speaker2: i don't know, man. he's a character.
speaker3: he really wants to play metal?
speaker2: he's got his own band in moscow. it's called "fuck your yankee blue jeans" or something like that.
speaker1: that doesn't sound metal.
speaker2: you gotta hear him sing. olaf, "berserker!" olaf laughs and shakes his head.
speaker2: come on, man, "berserker!"
speaker3: does he sing in english or russian?
speaker2: english. come on, "berserker!" girls think sexy.
speaker4: da. da.
speaker2: he's gonna sing it. this is too funny.

speaker1: did he say "making fuck?" 
speaker2: wait, there's more. olaf: sing...

speaker1: you hold the counter and i'll pull. 
speaker2: usually i just turn the can upside down.

speaker1: maybe we should soap your hand or something. 
speaker2: they oughta put some kind of warning on these cans, like they do with cigarettes.
speaker1: i think it's coming now...
speaker2: thanks. i thought i was gonna have to go to the hospital.
speaker1: i'll throw this out. precautionary measure.
speaker2: it stings a little.
speaker1: a word of advice: sometimes it's best to let those hard to reach chips go.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: do you know that article is accurate?
speaker3: you know what i just watched?
speaker1: me pulling a can off some moron's fist.
speaker3: return of the jedi.

speaker1: didn't you hear me? caitlin really is getting married. 
speaker2: which did you like better: jedi or the empire strikes back.
speaker1: empire.
speaker2: blasphemy.
speaker1: empire had the better ending: luke gets his hand cut off, and finds out vader's his father; han gets frozen and taken away by boba fett. it ends on such a down note. and that's life-a series of down endings. all jedi had was a bunch of muppets.
speaker2: there was something else going on in jedi. i never noticed it until today.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: all right, vader's boss...
speaker1: the emperor.
speaker2: right, the emperor. now the emperor is kind of a spiritual figure, yes?
speaker1: how do you mean?
speaker2: well, he's like the pope for the dark side of the force. he's a holy man; a shaman, kind of, albeit an evil one.

speaker1: i guess. 
speaker2: now, he's in charge of the empire. the imperial government is under his control. and the entire galaxy is under imperial rule.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: then wouldn't that logically mean that it's a theocracy? if the head of the empire is a priest of some sort, then it stands to reason that the government is therefore one based on religion.
speaker1: it would stand to reason, yes.
speaker2: hence, the empire was a fascist theocracy, and the rebel forces were therefore battling religious persecution.
speaker1: more or less.
speaker2: the only problem is that at no point in the series did i ever hear leia or any of the rebels declare a particular religious belief.
speaker1: i think they were catholics.
speaker3: are you open?
speaker1: yeah. come in.
speaker2: you know what else i noticed in jedi?

speaker1: there's more? 
speaker2: so they build another death star, right?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: now the first one they built was completed and fully operational before the rebels destroyed it.
speaker1: luke blew it up. give credit where it's due.
speaker2: and the second one was still being built when they blew it up.
speaker1: compliments of lando calrissian.
speaker2: something just never sat right with me the second time they destroyed it. i could never put my finger on it-something just wasn't right.
speaker1: and you figured it out?
speaker2: well, the thing is, the first death star was manned by the imperial army-storm troopers, dignitaries- the only people onboard were imperials.
speaker1: basically.
speaker2: so when they blew it up, no prob.
speaker1: and the second time around...?

speaker1: the second time around, it wasn't even finished yet. they were still under construction. 
speaker2: so?
speaker1: a construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the imperial army had to offer. i'll bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.
speaker2: not just imperials, is what you're getting at.
speaker1: exactly. in order to get it built quickly and quietly they'd hire anybody who could do the job. do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main? all they know is killing and white uniforms.
speaker2: all right, so even if independent contractors are working on the death star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?
speaker1: all those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed- casualties of a war they had nothing to do with. all right, look-you're a roofer, and some juicy government contract comes your way; you got the wife and kids and the two-story in suburbia-this is a government contract, which means all sorts of benefits. all of a sudden these left-wing militants blast you with lasers and wipe out everyone within a three-mile radius.

speaker1: you didn't ask for that. you have no personal politics. you're just trying to scrape out a living. 
speaker2: excuse me. i don't mean to interrupt, but what were you talking about?
speaker1: the ending of return of the jedi.
speaker3: my friend is trying to convince me that any contractors working on the uncompleted death star were innocent victims when the space station was destroyed by the rebels.
speaker2: well, i'm a contractor myself. i'm a roofer... dunn and reddy home improvements. and speaking as a roofer, i can say that a roofer's personal politics come heavily into play when choosing jobs.
speaker1: like when?
speaker2: three months ago i was offered a job up in the hills. a beautiful house with tons of property. it was a simple reshingling job, but i was told that if it was finished within a day, my price would be doubled.
speaker3: whose house was it?
speaker2: dominick bambino's.
speaker1: "babyface" bambino? the gangster?

speaker1: the same. the money was right, but the risk was too big. i knew who he was, and based on that, i passed the job on to a friend of mine. 
speaker2: based on personal politics.
speaker1: right. and that week, the foresci family put a hit on babyface's house. my friend was shot and killed. he wasn't even finished shingling.
speaker3: no way!
speaker1: i'm alive because i knew there were risks involved taking on that particular client. my friend wasn't so lucky. you know, any contractor willing to work on that death star knew the risks. if they were killed, it was their own fault. a roofer listens to this... not his wallet. the blue-collar man exits. dante and randal remain
speaker4: is that video store open or not?

speaker1: are either of these any good? 
speaker1: sir!
speaker2: what.
speaker1: are either of these any good?
speaker2: i don't watch movies.
speaker1: well, have you heard anything about either of them?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you've never heard anybody say anything about either movie?

speaker1: i find it's best to stay out of other people's affairs. 
speaker2: well, how about these two movies?
speaker1: they suck.
speaker2: i just held up the same two movies.
speaker1: no, i wasn't.
speaker2: i don't think your manager would appreciate...
speaker1: i don't appreciate your ruse, ma'am.
speaker2: i beg your pardon!
speaker1: your ruse. your cunning attempt to trick me.
speaker2: i only pointed out that you weren't paying any attention to what i was saying.
speaker1: i hope it feels good.
speaker2: you hope what feels good?

speaker1: i hope it feels so good to be right. there is nothing more exhilarating than pointing out the shortcomings of others, is there? 
speaker2: well this is the last time i ever rent here...
speaker1: you'll be missed.
speaker2: screw you!
speaker1: you're not allowed to rent here anymore!
speaker1: screw me!

speaker1: wait. 
speaker2: she's in here?
speaker1: this guy is going through all of the eggs. look.
speaker1: this has been going on for twenty minutes.
speaker2: what's he looking for?
speaker1: he said he has to find a perfect dozen.
speaker2: perfect dozen.
speaker1: each egg has to be perfect.
speaker2: the quest isn't going well?
speaker1: obviously not. look at all the cartons that didn't make the grade.
speaker2: why doesn't he just mix and match?
speaker1: i told him that and he yelled at me.

speaker1: what did he say? 
speaker2: he said it was important to have standards. he said nobody has pride anymore.
speaker1: it's not like you laid the eggs yourself.
speaker2: i'll give him five more minutes then i'm calling the cops. i don't need this, man. i'm not even supposed to be here today.
speaker3: two packs of cigarettes.
speaker1: still staring at the
speaker4: i'm as puzzled as you.
speaker3: i've actually seen it before.
speaker2: you know him?
speaker3: no, i've seen that behavior before. looking for the perfect carton of eggs, right?
speaker1: yeah. how'd you know?
speaker3: i'll bet you a million bucks that the guy's a guidance counselor.

speaker1: why do you say that? 
speaker2: i was in the food city last year when the same thing happened, different guy though. stock boy told me that the guy had been looking through the eggs for like half an hour, doing all sorts of endurance tests and i ask the kid how come nobody called the manager, and he says it happens twice a week, sometimes more.
speaker3: get out of here.
speaker2: i kid you not. they call it shell shock. only happens with guidance counselors for some reason. the kid said they used to make a big deal about it, but there's no point.
speaker2: he said they always pay for whatever they break and they never bother anybody.
speaker1: why guidance counselors?
speaker2: if your job served as little purpose as theirs, wouldn't you lose it, too?
speaker3: come to think of it, my guidance counselor was kind of worthless.
speaker2: see? it's important to have a job that makes a difference, boys. that's why i kill chinamen for the railroad.

speaker1: did you ever notice all the prices end in nine? damn, that's eerie. 
speaker2: you know how much money the average jizz-mopper make per hour?
speaker1: what's a jizz-mopper?
speaker2: he's the guy in those nudie-booth joints who cleans up after each guy that jerks off.
speaker1: nudie booth?
speaker2: nudie booth. you've never been in a nudie booth?
speaker1: i guess not.
speaker2: oh, it's great. you step into this little booth and there's this window between you and this naked woman, and she puts on this little show for like ten bucks.
speaker1: what kind of show?

speaker1: think of the weirdest, craziest you'd like to see chicks do. these chicks do it all. they insert things into any opening in their body...any opening. he's led a very sheltered life. 
speaker2: can we talk about this later?
speaker1: the jizz-mopper's job is to clean up the booths afterward, because practically everybody shoots a load against the window, and i don't know if you know or not, but leaves streaks if you don't clean it right away.
speaker3: this is the last time i come to this place.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker3: using filthy language in front of the customers...you should both get fired.
speaker2: we're sorry, ma'am. we got a little carried away.
speaker3: well, i don't know if sorry can make up for it. i found your remarks highly offensive.
speaker1: well, you think that's offensive...

speaker1: ...then check this out. i think you can see her kidneys. 
speaker2: ma'am, ma'am, i'm sorry! please, wait a second, ma'am...
speaker2: why do you do things like that? you know she's going to come back and tell the boss.
speaker1: who cares? that lady's an everybody that comes in here is way too uptight. this job would be great if it wasn't for the customers.
speaker2: i'm gonna hear it tomorrow.
speaker1: you gotta loosen up, my friend. you'd feel a of a lot better if you'd rip into the occasional customer.
speaker2: what for? they don't bother me if i don't bother them.
speaker1: liar! tell me there aren't customers that annoy the out of you on a daily basis.
speaker2: there aren't.
speaker1: how can you lie like that? why don't you vent? vent your frustration. come on, who you off?

speaker1: it's not really anyone per se, it's more of separate groupings. 
speaker2: let's hear it.
speaker1: the milkmaids.
speaker2: the milkmaids?

speaker1: you know who i can do without? i could do without the people in the video store. 
speaker2: which ones?
speaker1: all of them.

speaker1: what would you get for a six-year- old boy who chronically wets his bed? 
speaker2: do you have any new movies in?

speaker1: and they never rent quality flicks; they always pick the most intellectually devoid movie on the rack. montage insert 2/"ooooh!..." 
speaker2: ooooh! home alone!
speaker3: ooooh! hook!
speaker4: ooooh! navy seals!

speaker1: what do you mean there's no ice? you mean i've gotta drink this coffee hot?! 
speaker2: how much?

speaker1: see? you vented. don't you feel better now? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because my ex-girlfriend is getting married.
speaker1: you got a one-track mind. it's always caitlin, caitlin, caitlin...
speaker2: veronica!
speaker3: what happened to home by twelve?
speaker2: he still hasn't shown up. why aren't you in class?
speaker3: lit 101 got canceled, so i stopped home and brought you some lunch.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker3: peanut butter and jelly with the crusts cut off. what do you think it is? it's lasagne.

speaker1: really? you're the best. 
speaker2: i'm glad you've calmed down a bit. hi, randal.
speaker3: thirty-seven!
speaker1: shut up! yes, i've calmed down, i'm still not happy about it, but i've been able to deal.
speaker2: you had to tell him.
speaker1: i had to tell someone. he put it into perspective.
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker1: at least he wasn't thirty-six.
speaker2: and that made you feel better?
speaker1: and he said most of them are college guys, i've never met or seen.

speaker1: the ostrich syndrome: if you don't see it... 
speaker2: ...it isn't there. yes.
speaker1: thank you for being rational.
speaker2: thank you for the lasagne.
speaker1: you couldn't get these shutters open?
speaker2: i called a locksmith and he said the earliest he could get here it tomorrow.
speaker1: bummer, well, i've gotta head back for the one-thirty class.
speaker2: what time do you get finished?
speaker1: eight. but i have a sorority meeting till nine, so i'll be back before you close. can we go out and get some coffee?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: all right, now if you're really feeling dangerous tonight, then smokey and the bandit three is the movie you must rent. 
speaker2: this doesn't even have burt reynolds in it.
speaker1: hey, neither did et; but that was a great movie, right?
speaker3: can you come next door? i gotta make a phone call.
speaker1: smokey three: thumbs up, am i right?
speaker3: the best burtless movie ever made.

speaker1: awww, he's so cute. what's his name? 
speaker2: lenin's tomb.
speaker3: hello, is mr. synder there? this is dante...did he say if he was on his way here?...here...the convenience store...i know, but the other guy called out this morning and mr.

speaker1: synder asked me to cover until he got here. he said he'd be here by noon, but it's one-thirty now, so i...excuse me...vermont?!...no, that can't be; i talked to him this morning...he left at what time?...he really went to vermont?...when the was someone going to tell me?...he promised he was coming by noon!...jesus...when does he get back?!...tuesday!...you've gotta be kidding me!...i've got a hockey game at two, and the shutters are jammed closed, and he's in vermont?...i'm not even supposed to be here today!! so i'm stuck here till closing?...this is just great...i just can't believe...i'm sorry, i didn't mean to yell at you...no...no, i'll be all right...well, that's all i can do, right?...thanks. 
speaker2: vermont?
speaker1: can you believe this?!
speaker2: he didn't mention it when he called you this morning?
speaker1: not a word! slippery
speaker2: so, what-you're stuck here all day?

speaker1: why'd you apologize? 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: i heard you apologize. why? you have every right in the world to be mad. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: that seems to be the leitmotif in your life; ever backing down.
speaker2: i don't back down.
speaker1: yes, you do. you always back down. you assume blame that isn't yours, you come in when called as opposed to enjoying your day off, you buckle like a belt.
speaker2: you know what me off the most?
speaker1: the fact that i'm right about your buckling?
speaker2: i'm going to miss the game.
speaker1: because you buckled.
speaker2: would you shut the up with that it's not helping.
speaker1: don't yell at me, pal.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: see? there you go again.
speaker2: i can't believe i'm going to miss the game!
speaker1: at least we're stuck here together.

speaker1: you've got a customer. 
speaker2: what? what do you want?!
speaker1: sanford? dante...i can't play today...i'm stuck at work...i know i'm not scheduled, but-just forget it. i can't play...neither can randal...he's working too...
speaker1: wait a second. do we have to play at the park?...hold on... do you feel limber?

speaker1: pull my laces tighter. 
speaker2: i've gotta tell you, my friend: this is one of the ballsiest moves i've ever been privy to. i never would have thought you capable of such blatant disregard of store policy.
speaker1: i told him i had a game today. it's his own fault.

speaker1: no argument here. insubordination rules. 
speaker2: i just want to play hockey like i was scheduled to.
speaker3: dante, let me grab a gatorade.
speaker2: if you grab a gatorade, then everybody's going to grab one.
speaker3: so?
speaker2: so? so nobody's going to want to pay for these gatorades.
speaker3: what do you care? hey, what smells like shoe polish?
speaker2: i've got a responsibility here. i can't let everybody grab free drinks.
speaker3: what responsibility? you're closing the store to play hockey.
speaker1: he's blunt, but he's got a point.
speaker2: at least let me maintain some semblance of managerial control here.
speaker3: all i'm saying is if you're going to be insubordinate, you should go the full nine and not out when it comes to free refreshments.
speaker1: he's right. as if we're suddenly gonna have a run on gatorade.

speaker1: fuckin-a. 
speaker2: all right. you are pushy.
speaker1: hey man, i hear caitlin's marrying an asian drum major.
speaker3: design major.
speaker2: can we not talk about this?
speaker1: fine by me. but you're living in denial and suppressing rage. dante said we can all drink free gatorade.
speaker3: are you gonna lock the store?
speaker2: i don't know. you going to lock the video store?
speaker3: look who you're asking here. how're we gonna block off the street?
speaker2: we're not playing in the street.
speaker3: then where're we gonna play?

speaker1: ready? 
speaker2: when's this period over?
speaker3: eight more minutes!
speaker2: are you me? i want to get cigarettes!
speaker1: if you can just wait a few more minutes.

speaker1: that! i'm gonna break my crazy neck on this ladder! 
speaker2: dante! where are you?!
speaker1: he's busy!
speaker3: i'll be right back. it's almost over.
speaker1: what the is this?! i want some service!
speaker3: in a second!
speaker1: in a second! this is...look at you! you can't even pass!
speaker3: i can pass!
speaker1: how 'bout covering point!? you suck!
speaker3: who are you to make assessments?
speaker1: i'll assess all i want!

speaker1: don't pass to this guy! he you suck! 
speaker2: like you're better!

speaker1: i can whip your ass. 
speaker2: that's easy to say from over here.
speaker1: give me a stick, pretty boy! i'll knock your teeth out and pass all over your ass.
speaker3: is the convenience store open?

speaker1: give me another ball. 
speaker2: there are no more.
speaker1: what the are you talking about? how many did you bring?

speaker1: there was the orange ball...and the orange ball. 
speaker2: are there any down there?!
speaker3: 'bout the biggest pair you ever seen! nynne!!
speaker2: you only brought one ball?!
speaker1: i thought redding had like three balls!
speaker4: i thought dante had the balls.
speaker2: nobody has another ball?
speaker1: 
speaker2: we get...what...twelve minutes of game, and it's over? i'm not even supposed to be here today!
speaker1: we still get free gatorade, right?

speaker1: i'm trying. 
speaker2: you know the insides of those are filled with stuff that gives you cancer.
speaker1: so i'm told.
speaker2: i had a friend that used to chew glass for a living. in the circus.
speaker1: and he got cancer by chewing fluorescent bulb glass...?
speaker2: no, he got hit by a bus.
speaker1: oh...can i help you?
speaker2: well, that depends. do you have a bathroom?
speaker1: um...yeah, but it's for employees only.
speaker2: i understand, but can i use it. i'm not that young anymore, so i'm kind of...you know...incontinent.
speaker1: uh...sure. go ahead. it's back through the cooler.
speaker2: thanks son. say-what kind of toilet paper you got back there?
speaker1: the white kind.

speaker1: i'm not asking about the color. i mean is it rough or cottony? 
speaker2: actually, it is kind of rough.
speaker1: rough, eh? oh, that stuff rips out of my hemorrhoids. say, would you mind if i took a roll of the soft stuff back there. i see you sell the soft stuff.
speaker2: yeah, but...
speaker1: aw, c'mon boy. what's the difference? you said yourself the stuff that's there now is rough.
speaker2: yeah, okay. go ahead.
speaker1: thanks son, you're a lifesaver.
speaker1: say, young fella, you know i hate to bother you again, but can i take a paper or something back there...to read? it usually takes me a while, and i like to read while it's going on.
speaker2: jesus...go ahead.
speaker1: thanks, young man. you've got a heart of gold.
speaker2: you know, you probably could've been home, already, in the time it's taken you to get in there.

speaker1: can i trouble you for one of those magazines? 
speaker2: i said go ahead.
speaker1: no, i mean the ones there. behind the counter.
speaker2: the mags?
speaker1: yeah. i like the cartoons. they make me laugh. they draw the biggest titties.
speaker2: here. now leave me alone.
speaker1: uh, can i have the other one. the one below this one. they show more in that one.
speaker1: thanks son. i appreciate this.
speaker3: helluva game!
speaker2: one ball!! they come all the way here...i close the store...for one ball!
speaker3: hockey's hockey. at least we got to play.
speaker2: randal, twelve minutes is not a game! it's barely a warm-up!

speaker1: you want something to drink? 
speaker2: gatorade.
speaker1: what happened to all the gatorade?
speaker2: exactly. they drank it all.
speaker1: after an exhausting game like that i can believe it.
speaker2: "it's not like we're gonna sell out." randal comes back with drinks.
speaker1: you know what sanford told me?
speaker2: i still can't believe caitlin's getting married.
speaker1: julie dwyer died.
speaker2: yeah, right.
speaker1: no, i'm serious.
speaker2: oh, my
speaker1: sanford's brother dates her cousin.

speaker1: how? when? 
speaker2: embolism in her brain. yesterday.
speaker1: 
speaker2: she was swimming at the ymca pool when it happened. died midbackstroke.
speaker1: i haven't seen her in almost two years.
speaker2: correct me if i'm wrong, but wasn't she one of the illustrious twelve?
speaker1: number six.
speaker2: you've had with a dead person.
speaker1: i'm gonna go to her wake.
speaker2: no, you're not.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: it's today.
speaker1: what!?
speaker2: paulsen's funeral parlor. the next show is at four.
speaker1: what about tomorrow?
speaker2: one night only. she's buried in the morning.

speaker1: you've gotta watch the store. i have to go to this. 
speaker2: wait, wait, wait. has it occurred to you that i might bereaved as well?
speaker1: you hardly knew her!
speaker2: true, but do you know how many people are going to be there? all of our old classmates, to say the least.
speaker1: stop it. this is beneath even you.
speaker2: i'm not missing what's probably going to be the social event of the season.
speaker1: you hate people.
speaker2: but i love gatherings. isn't it ironic?
speaker1: don't be an somebody has to stay with the store.
speaker2: if you go, i go.
speaker1: she meant nothing to you!
speaker2: she meant nothing to you either until i told you she died.
speaker1: i'm not taking you to this funeral.
speaker2: i'm going with you.
speaker1: i can't close the store.

speaker1: you just closed the store to play hockey on the roof! 
speaker2: exactly, which means i can't close it for another hour so we can both go to a wake.

speaker1: you were saying? 
speaker2: thanks for putting me in a tough spot. you're a good friend.
speaker1: she was pretty young, hunhh?
speaker2: twenty-two; same as us.
speaker1: an embolism in a pool.
speaker2: an embarrassing way to die.
speaker1: that's nothing compared to how my cousin walter died.
speaker2: how'd he die?
speaker1: broke his neck.
speaker2: that's embarrassing?
speaker1: he broke his neck trying to his own

speaker1: shut the up. 
speaker2: bible truth.
speaker1: stop it.
speaker2: i swear.
speaker1: oh, my
speaker2: come on. haven't you ever tried to your own dick?
speaker1: no!
speaker2: yeah sure. you're so repressed.
speaker1: because i never tried to my own dick?
speaker2: no, because you won't admit to it. as if a guy's a pervert because he tries to go down on himself. you're as curious as the rest of us, pal. you've tried it.
speaker1: who found him?
speaker2: my cousin? my aunt found him. on his bed, doubled over himself with his legs on top. in his mouth.
speaker1: his was in his mouth?
speaker2: resting on his lips.
speaker1: he made it, hunhh?

speaker1: yeah, but at what a price. 
speaker2: i could never reach.
speaker1: reach what?
speaker2: you know.
speaker1: what, your dick?
speaker2: yeah. like you said, you know. i guess everyone tries it, sooner of later.
speaker1: i never tried it.
speaker1: pervert.

speaker1: i know it was a bad idea to close the store. 
speaker2: listen to you.
speaker1: i can't help it. at least when we were playing hockey outside, i could see if anyone wanted to go in.
speaker2: nobody's there. it's four o'clock on a saturday. how many people ever come to the store at four on a saturday?

speaker1: i can't believe you!! 
speaker2: i'm telling you, it wasn't my fault!
speaker1: you knocked the casket over, for chrissakes!
speaker2: i was just leaning on it! it was an accident!
speaker1: does anyone ever knock over a casket on purpose?
speaker2: so the casket fell over! big deal!
speaker1: her body fell out!
speaker2: so they'll put her back in! it's not like it's gonna matter if she breaks something!
speaker1: just...go! go open the video store.

speaker1: yeah! open the video store!! 
speaker2: shut the up, junkie!
speaker3: go open the video store.
speaker1: yeah, you cock-smoking clerk.
speaker3: how many times i gotta tell you not to deal outside the store.
speaker1: i'm not dealing.
speaker4: you got anything, man?
speaker1: yeah, what do you want?
speaker5: hey, did you see a set of keys lying around here somewhere?

speaker1: i don't want to talk to you. 
speaker2: fine. just lend me your car.
speaker1: why should i loan you my car?
speaker2: i want to rent a movie.
speaker1: you want to rent a movie.
speaker2: what's that for?
speaker1: you work in a video store!
speaker2: i work in a video store. i want to go to a good video store so i can rent a good movie.
speaker3: are you open?
speaker3: pack of cigarettes. cute cat. what's its name?
speaker2: annoying customer.

speaker1: can you imagine being halfway decent to the customers at least some of the time? 
speaker2: let me borrow your car.
speaker1: may i be blunt with you?
speaker2: if you must.
speaker1: we are employees of quick stop convenience and rst video, respectively. as such, we have certain responsibilities which- though it may seem cruel and unusual-does include manning our posts until closing.
speaker2: i see. so playing hockey and attending wakes-these practices are standard operating procedure.
speaker1: there's a difference. those were obligations. obligations that could not have been met at any later date. now renting videos-that's just gratuitous, not to mention illogical, considering you work in a video store.
speaker3: are you open?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you know what? i don't think i care for you rationale.

speaker1: it's going to have to do for now, considering that it's my car that's up for request. can i help you? 
speaker2: pack of cigarettes.
speaker3: what's your point?
speaker1: my point is that you're a clerk, paid to do a job. you can't just do anything you want while you're working.
speaker2: "space alien revealed as head of time warner; reports stock increase." they print any kind of in these papers.
speaker1: they certainly do. two fifty-five.
speaker3: so your argument is that title dictates behavior?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: the reasons you won't let me borrow your care is because i have a title and a job description, and i'm supposed to follow it, right?
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: i saw one, one time, that said the world was ending the next week.

speaker1: then in the next week's paper, they said we were miraculously saved at the zero hour by a koala-fish mutant bird. crazy 
speaker2: so i'm no more responsible for my own decisions while i'm here at work than, say, the death squad soldiers in bosnia?
speaker3: that's stretching it. you're not being asked to slay children or anything.
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: and i remember this one time the paper said...

speaker1: sir! sir, i'm sorry! he didn't mean it! he was trying to get me. 
speaker2: well, he missed!
speaker1: i know. i'm sorry. let me refund your cigarette money, and we'll call it even.

speaker1: this is the last time i ever come here. and if i ever see you again, i'm gonna break your head open! 
speaker2: what the did you do that for?
speaker3: two reasons: one, i hate when the people can't shut up about the stupid tabloid headlines.
speaker2: 
speaker3: and two, to make a point: title does not dictate behavior.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: if title dictated my behavior, as a clerk serving the public, i wouldn't be allowed to spit a mouthful of water at that guy. but i did, so my point is that people dictate their own behavior. hence, even though i'm a clerk in this video store, i choose to go rent videos at big choice. agreed?
speaker2: you're a danger to both the dead and the living.
speaker3: i like to think i'm a master of my own destiny.

speaker1: please, get the out of here. 
speaker2: i know i'm your hero.

speaker1: sounds to me like somebody needs to hit the gym. 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i heard you strain when you put the milk in the bag. that milk only weighs about seven pounds.
speaker2: i didn't strain. i sighed.
speaker1: i don't think so. that was a grunt; a deep inhalation of oxygen to aid in the stretching of muscles. i'm a trainer. i know what that sound signifies: you're out of shape.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: oh, i do. you made the same noise when you reached across the counter for my cash. your muscles are thin and sadly underutilized.
speaker2: they are not.
speaker1: yes, they are. you're out of shape.

speaker1: what are you talking about? there's no fat on this body. 
speaker2: no fat, but no tone either. you don't get enough exercise.
speaker3: are you open?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: just the paper.
speaker1: thirty-fire.
speaker2: let me ask you a question: do you think this guy's out of shape?
speaker3: i don't know. i can't really tell from here.
speaker2: he is.
speaker1: i am not.
speaker2: how much can you bench?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker3: i'd say about sixty, seventy-tops.
speaker1: i know i can bench more than that!

speaker1: i think the lady called it. 
speaker2: my ex-boyfriend was about his height, but he was much bulkier. he could bench two-fifty, three hundred easy.
speaker1: i do about three-fifty, four.
speaker2: no way!
speaker1: feel that.
speaker2: that's tight. solid.
speaker1: now feel his. roll up your sleeve, chief.
speaker3: oh for sake!
speaker1: see? you're ashamed. you know you're out of shape. take my card. i can help you tone that body up in no time. get you on an aerobics and free-weights program.
speaker4: you open?
speaker3: yes. i'm not out of shape.
speaker4: excuse me, but have you been here all day?
speaker3: what?

speaker1: he's got those love handles. 
speaker2: i don't have love handles.
speaker3: were you working here at about four o'clock?
speaker2: i've been here since six o'clock this morning. why?
speaker4: it's probably from being around all this food every day.
speaker1: oh, i know. if i had to work here all day, i'd be bloated and out of shape, too.
speaker2: i'm not out of shape!
speaker3: can i have your name please?
speaker2: dante hicks. why? what is this about?
speaker1: you're dante hicks? oh my i didn't even recognize you!
speaker4: because he's out of shape.
speaker2: do i know you?
speaker1: you remember alyssa jones? she hung out with...
speaker2: caitlin bree. yeah?

speaker1: i'm her sister. 
speaker2: you're alyssa's sister? heather?
speaker1: yep. i remember you got caught in my parents' room with caitlin once.
speaker3: did you say caitlin bree?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: pretty girl, about this girl's height-dark hair-gorgeous body?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker3: and your name is dante hicks? you went to high school with her? you played hockey?
speaker2: how do you know that?
speaker3: oh man! hey, you still going out with her?
speaker2: no, she's getting married.
speaker3: to you?
speaker1: to an asian design major.
speaker3: don't take this the wrong way, but i used to her.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: while you two were dating in high school. we're talking four, five years ago, back when i drove a trans-am. 
speaker2: oh my you're rick derris?
speaker1: yeah!
speaker3: you know him?
speaker2: caitlin used to talk about him all the time.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: oh yeah. you were the built older guy with the black trans and the big...
speaker3: wait a second! you used to sleep with caitlin bree?
speaker1: all the time. that girl was like a rabbit.
speaker3: i...i don't believe this...
speaker2: i still remember caitlin telling us about that time you two went to that motel-the one with the mirrors and the hot tub in the room.

speaker1: holy she told you about that! buddy of mine worked there. said he watched the whole thing. they used to film people at that hotel; nobody knew about it. 
speaker2: she said one time you set up a tent on the beach and you guys did it in the middle of this big rainstorm.
speaker3: what? when? when did all this happen?
speaker1: hey man, that was a long time ago.
speaker2: i'm surprised you never found out about it, dante. everybody in school knew-even in my class.
speaker3: christ, what next?
speaker4: here you go.
speaker3: what's this?
speaker4: a fine, for five hundred dollars.

speaker1: five hundred bucks? what for? 
speaker2: for violation of new jersey statute section two a, number one-seventy slash fifty-one: any person who sells or makes available tobacco or tobacco-related products to persons under the age of eighteen is regarded as disorderly.

speaker1: what are you talking about? 
speaker2: according to the njac-the new jersey administrative code, section eighteen, five, slash twelve point five-a fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars is to be leveled against any person reported selling cigarettes to a minor.
speaker1: i didn't do that!
speaker2: you said you were here all day?
speaker1: yeah, but i didn't sell cigarettes to any kids!
speaker2: an angry mother called the state division of taxation and complained that the man working at quick stop convenience sold her five-year-old daughter cigarettes today at around four o'clock. division of taxation calls the state board of health, and they send me down here to issue a fine. you say you were working all day, hence the fine is yours. it's doubled due to the incredibly young age of the child.
speaker1: but i didn't sell cigarettes to any kid!
speaker3: to a five-year-old kid? what a scumbag!
speaker4: that's sick, dante.
speaker1: i didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! i swear!

speaker1: the due date is on the bottom. this summons cannot be contested in any court of law. failure to remit before the due date will result in a charge of criminal negligence, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. have a nice day. 
speaker2: but i didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! hey!
speaker3: forget it. i don't want to deal with a guy that sells cigarettes to a five-year-old. can i offer you a ride somewhere?
speaker4: sure. how about the beach?
speaker3: i like the way you think.
speaker2: what next?
speaker5: dante?
speaker2: what?
speaker2: caitlin?

speaker1: that's the price, my brother. 
speaker2: yo, i don't have that kind of cash.
speaker1: for this kind of hash, you need that kind of cash.
speaker2: how long you gonna be here?
speaker1: till ten. then i'm going to john k's party.
speaker2: you're gonna be at john k's party?
speaker1: my man is deaf.
speaker2: yo, don't sell all that. 'cause i'm gonna get the cash and buy it from you at john k's. you're gonna bring it, right?
speaker1: the only place i don't bring my drugs is church. and that ain't till sunday morning.
speaker2: yo. i'll see you at that party. i'll see you there?
speaker1: i'll see you there.

speaker1: when did you get back? 
speaker2: just now.
speaker1: my i haven't seen you since...
speaker2: dante. you've got a customer.
speaker2: i just saw alyssa's little sister outside. she was with rick derris.
speaker1: let's not talk about that. how'd you get home?
speaker2: train. it took eight hours.
speaker1: i can't believe you're here.
speaker3: excuse me, do you have...

speaker1: to the back, above the oil. how long are you staying? 
speaker2: until monday. then i have to take the train back.
speaker3: pack of cigarettes. congratulations. i saw that announcement in today's paper. she's marrying an asian design major.
speaker1: so i'm told.

speaker1: you're just going to lock the store like that? 
speaker2: i want to talk to you about something, and i don't want to be disturbed.

speaker1: you saw it? 
speaker2: very dramatic, i thought.
speaker1: it's not what you think.
speaker2: what, it's worse? you're pregnant with an asian design major's child?
speaker1: i'm not pregnant.
speaker2: were you going to tell me or just send me an invitation?
speaker1: i was going to tell you. but then we were getting along so well, i didn't want to mess it up.
speaker2: you could've broke it to me gently, you know; at least started by telling me you had a boyfriend. i told you i have a girlfriend.
speaker1: i know, i'm sorry. but when we started talking...it's like i forgot i had a boyfriend. and then he proposed last month...
speaker2: and you said yes?
speaker1: well...kind of, sort of?
speaker2: is that what they teach you at that school of yours? kind of, sort of? everyone knows about this except me!
speaker1: i would've told you, and you would have stopped calling, like a baby.

speaker1: how do you know that? 
speaker2: because i know you. you prefer drastic measures to rational ones.
speaker1: so you're really getting married?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no, you're not really getting married?
speaker2: the story goes like this: he proposed, and i told him i had to think about it, and he insisted i wear the ring anyway. then my mother told the paper we were engaged.
speaker1: how like her.
speaker2: then my mother called me this morning and told me the announcement was in the paper. that's when i hopped the train to come back here, because i knew you'd be a wreck.
speaker1: thanks for the vote of confidence.
speaker2: was i right?
speaker1: wreck is a harsh term. disturbed is more like it. mildly disturbed even.
speaker2: i love a macho faã§ade. it's such a turn-on. what smells like shoe polish?
speaker1: and you came here to what? to comfort me?

speaker1: the last thing i needed was for you to think i was hiding something from you. 
speaker2: but you were.
speaker1: no, i wasn't. not really. i told you'd i'd been seeing other people.
speaker2: yeah, but not seriously. christ, you're ready to walk down the aisle-i'd say that constitutes something more than just seeing somebody.
speaker1: i'm giving him his ring back.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't want to marry him. i don't want to get married now. i'm on the verge of graduation. i want to go to grad school after this. and then i want to start a career. i don't want to be a wife first, and then have to worry about when i'' going to fit in all of the other stuff. i've come way too far and studied too hard to let my education go to waste as a housewife. and i know that's what i'd become. sang's already signed with a major firm, and he's going to be pulling a huge salary, which would give me no reason to work, and he's so traditional anyway...
speaker2: sang? his name is a past tense?
speaker1: stop it. he's a nice guy.
speaker2: if he's so nice, why aren't you going to marry him?

speaker1: i just told you. 
speaker2: there's more, isn't there?
speaker1: why, mr. hicks-whatever do you mean?
speaker2: tell me i don't have something to do with it.
speaker1: you don't have anything to do with it.
speaker2: you lie.
speaker1: look how full of yourself you are.
speaker2: i just believe in giving credit where credit is due. and i believe that i'm the impetus behind your failure to wed.
speaker1: if i'm so nuts about you, then why am i having with an asian design major?
speaker2: you're caustic.
speaker1: i had to bring you down from that cloud you were floating on. when i say i don't want to get married, i mean just that. i don't want to marry anybody. not for years.
speaker2: so who's asking? i don't want to marry you.
speaker1: good. stay in that frame of mind.
speaker2: buy can we date?

speaker1: i'm sure sang and-veronica?-would like that. 
speaker2: we could introduce them. they might hit it off.
speaker1: you're serious. you want to date again.
speaker2: i would like to be your boyfriend, yes.
speaker1: it's just the shock of seeing me after three years. believe me, you'll get over it.
speaker2: give me a bit more credit. i think it's time we got back together, you know. i'm more mature, you're more mature, you're finishing college, i'm already in the job market...
speaker1: you work in a market, all right.
speaker2: cute. tell me you wouldn't want to go out again. after all the talking we've been doing.
speaker1: the key word here is talk, dante. i think the idea, the conception of us dating is more idyllic than what actually happens when we date.
speaker2: so...what? so we should just make pretend over the phone that we're dating?
speaker1: i don't know. maybe we should just see what happens.
speaker2: let me take you out tonight.

speaker1: you mean, on a date? 
speaker2: yes. a real date. dinner and a movie.
speaker1: the dante hicks dinner and a movie date. i think i've been on that one before.
speaker2: you have a better suggestion?
speaker1: how about the caitlin bree walk on the boardwalk, then get naked somewhere kind of private date?
speaker2: i hear that's a rather popular date.
speaker1: jerk. here i am, throwing myself at you, succumbing to your wily charms, and you call me a slut, in so many words.
speaker2: what about sing?
speaker1: sang.
speaker2: sang.
speaker1: he's not invited.
speaker2: he's your fiancã©.
speaker1: i offer you my body and you offer me semantics? he's just a boyfriend, dante, and in case you haven't gotten the drift of why i came all the way here from ohio, i'm about to become single again.

speaker1: and yes-let me placate your ego-you are the inspiration for this bold and momentous decision, for which i'll probably be ostracized at both school and home. you ask me who i choose, i choose you. 
speaker2: so what are you saying?
speaker1: you're such an
speaker2: i'm just kidding.
speaker1: i can already tell this isn't going to work.
speaker2: i'll ask randal to close up for me- when he gets back.
speaker1: where'd he go? i'd have thought he'd be at your side, like an obedient lapdog.
speaker2: he went to rent a movie, but he hasn't gotten back yet. ah, screw it; i'll just lock the store up and leave him a note.
speaker1: you're too responsible. but no. i have to go home first. they don't even know i left school. and i should break the disengagement news to my mother, which is going to cause quite a row, considering she loves sang.
speaker2: who doesn't?
speaker1: well, me i guess. so, i shall take my leave of you, but i will return in a little while, at which time-yes-i would love to go for dinner and a movie with you.

speaker1: what happened to the walk and the nakedness? 
speaker2: i'm easy, but i'm not that easy. see you later, handsome.

speaker1: get to work. 
speaker2: what'd you rent? best of both worlds?
speaker1: hermaphroditic porn. starlets with both organs. you should see the box: beautiful women with that put mine to shame.
speaker2: and this is what you rented?
speaker1: i like to expand my horizons.
speaker2: i got fined for selling cigarettes to a minor.
speaker1: no way!
speaker2: five hundred dollars.
speaker1: you're bullshitting.
speaker3: dante hands him the summons. randal reads it.
speaker1: i didn't think they even enforced this.
speaker2: living proof.
speaker1: i thought you never sold cigarettes to kids.
speaker2: i don't; you did.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: little girl. maybe five years old?
speaker1: holy that girl?
speaker2: as opposed to the hundreds of other children you let buy cigarettes whenever you work here.
speaker1: then how come you got the fine?
speaker2: because i'm here.
speaker1: you're lying.
speaker2: i swear. i couldn't make this kind of up.
speaker1: then why aren't you like screaming at me right now?
speaker2: because i'm happy.

speaker1: you're happy? 
speaker2: i'm happy.
speaker1: you're happy to get a fine?
speaker2: no. i'm happy because caitlin came to see me.
speaker1: now i know you're lying.
speaker2: i'm not. she just left.
speaker1: what did she say?
speaker2: she's not going to marry that guy.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: i'm not.
speaker1: wow. you've had quite an evening.
speaker2: she went home, she's getting ready, and we're going out.
speaker1: i feel so ineffectual. is there anything i can do for you?
speaker2: watch the store while i go home and change.
speaker1: what happened to title dictates behavior?

speaker1: this is my way of spitting water at life. 
speaker2: hey, what about veronica?
speaker1: no! don't bring it up. i don't want to think about that now. let me enjoy this hour of bliss. i'll think about all of that later. in the meantime, nobody mentions the v word.
speaker2: you're a snake.
speaker1: in my absence, try not to sell cigarettes to any newborns.
speaker2: you want me to bring the vcr over here so we can watch this?
speaker1: i might be leaving early to go out with caitlin, in which case you'll have to close the store tonight.
speaker2: all right, but you're missing out.
speaker1: i'll read the book.
speaker3: cute cat. what's his name.
speaker2: peptic ulcer.

speaker1: randal graves-scourge of the video renter. 
speaker2: ladies and gentleman, mrs. asian design major herself: caitlin bree!
speaker1: you saw that article? isn't it awful? my mother sent that in.
speaker2: i take it she likes the guy.
speaker1: you'd think she was marrying him.
speaker2: children's programming. what did your mom say when you told her you weren't engaged anymore?
speaker1: she said not to come home until graduation.
speaker2: wow, you got thrown out? for dante?
speaker1: what can i say? he does weird things to me.

speaker1: can i watch? 
speaker2: you can hold me down.
speaker1: can i join in?
speaker2: you might be let down. i'm not a hermaphrodite.
speaker1: few are. so what makes you think you can maintain a relationship with dante this time around?
speaker2: a woman's intuition. something in me says it's time to give the old boy a serious try.
speaker1: wow. hey, i was just about to order some dinner. you eat chinese, right?
speaker2: 
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: so where is he?
speaker1: he went home to change for the big date.
speaker2: isn't he great?
speaker1: no, this is great.
speaker2: can i use the bathroom?
speaker1: there's no light back there.

speaker1: why aren't there any lights? 
speaker2: well, there are, but for some reason they stop working at five- fourteen every night.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: nobody can figure it out. and the boss doesn't want to pay the electrician to fix it, because the electrician owes money to the video store.
speaker1: such a sordid state of affair.
speaker2: and i'm caught in the middle-torn between my loyalty for the boss, and my desire to with the light on.
speaker1: i'll try to manage.
speaker2: hey caitlin... break his heart again this time, and i'll kill you. nothing personal.
speaker1: you're very protective of him, randal. you always have been.
speaker2: territoriality. he was mine first.
speaker1: awww. that was so cute.

speaker1: a pack of cigarettes. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: who eats cock? 
speaker2: bunch of savages in this town. hey, caitlin's in the back. you might want to see if she's okay; she's been back there a long time.
speaker1: there's no lights back there.
speaker2: i told her that. she said she didn't need any. why don't you join her, man. make a little bathroom bam-bam.
speaker1: i love your talk. it's so...kindergarten: poo-poo; wee-wee.
speaker2: you.
speaker3: how'd you get here so fast?
speaker1: i left like an hour ago.

speaker1: do you always talk weird after you violate women? 
speaker2: maybe the asian design major slipped her some opium?
speaker3: could be.
speaker1: promise me it'll always be like that.
speaker3: like what?
speaker1: when you just lie perfectly still and let me do everything.
speaker3: um...okay.
speaker2: am i missing something here?
speaker1: i went back there, and dante was already waiting for me.
speaker2: he was?
speaker1: it was so cool. he didn't say a word. he was just...ready, you know? and we didn't kiss or talk or anything. he just sat there and let me do all the work.
speaker2: you dog! i didn't see you go back there.

speaker1: and the fact that there weren't any lights made it so... that was so great! 
speaker2: it wasn't me.
speaker1: yeah, right. who was it: randal?
speaker2: was it you?
speaker3: i was here the whole time.
speaker1: you two better quit it.
speaker2: i'm serious.
speaker1: we didn't just have in the bathroom?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: stop this. this isn't funny.
speaker2: i'm not kidding. i just got back from outside.
speaker1: this isn't funny, dante!
speaker2: i'm not fooling around! who went back there?

speaker1: nobody! i swear! 
speaker2: i feel nauseous.
speaker3: are you sure somebody was back there?
speaker2: i didn't just myself! i'm going to be sick!
speaker1: you just a total stranger?
speaker3: shut the up!
speaker2: i can't believe this! i feel faint...
speaker3: call the police.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: no, don't!
speaker3: there's a strange man in our bathroom, and he just raped caitlin!
speaker2: oh
speaker1: she said she did all the work.

speaker1: who is he? 
speaker2: i don't know. he just came in and asked to use the bathroom.
speaker1: what time was this?
speaker2: um...i don't know. what time did hockey end?
speaker3: around three or something.
speaker2: what time did we go to the funeral?
speaker3: i think four.
speaker1: wait a second? who was working here today?
speaker2: just me.
speaker1: i thought you just said you played hockey and went to a funeral.
speaker2: we did.
speaker1: then who operated the store?
speaker2: nobody. it was closed.

speaker1: with this guy locked in? 
speaker2: everything happened at once. i guess i forgot he was back there.
speaker3: can we take this now?
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker2: was he alive when...caitlin...
speaker1: no. i place the time of death at about three-twenty.
speaker4: then how could she...you know...
speaker1: the body can maintain an erection after expiration. sometimes for hours. did he have the adult magazine when he came in?
speaker2: no. i gave it to him.
speaker2: well he asked me for it!
speaker1: i can't say for certain until we get him back to the lab, but my guess is he was masturbating, his heart seized and he died. that's when the girl found him. something smells like shoe polish.

speaker1: this has gotta be the weirdest thing you've ever been called in on. 
speaker2: actually, i once had to tag a kid that broke his neck trying to put his mouth on his penis.
speaker3: what about caitlin?
speaker2: shock trauma. she's going to need years of therapy after this. my question is, how did she come to have with the dead man?
speaker3: she thought it was me.
speaker2: what kind of convenience store do you run here?
speaker1: do you think he was talking about my cousin?

speaker1: salsa shark. 
speaker1: "we're gonna need a bigger boat." dante says even less than nothing.
speaker1: "man goes into the cage; cage goes into the salsa; shark's in the salsa; our shark." dante...you know.
speaker1: what? what's with you? you haven't said anything for like twenty minutes. what the is your problem?
speaker2: this life.
speaker1: this life?
speaker2: why do i have this life?
speaker1: have some chips; you'll feel better.

speaker1: i'm stuck in this pit, earning less than slave wages, working on my day off, dealing with every backward on the planet, the goddam steel shutters are locked all day, i smell like shoe polish, i've got an ex-girlfriend who's catatonic after a dead guy, and my present girlfriend has sucked thirty-six dicks. 
speaker2: thirty-seven.
speaker1: my life is in the right about now, so if you don't mind, i'd like to stew a bit.
speaker3: you open?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: that's all you know what the real problem here is?
speaker1: i was born.
speaker2: you should or get off the pot.
speaker1: i should or get off the pot.
speaker2: yeah, you should or get off the pot.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: i'm talking about this thing you have...this inability to improve your situation in life.

speaker1: you. 
speaker2: it's true. you'll sit there and blame life for dealing a cruddy hand, never once accepting the responsibility for the way your situation is.
speaker1: what responsibility?
speaker2: all right, if you hate this job and the people, and the fact that you have to come in on your day off, then quit.
speaker1: as if it's that easy.
speaker2: it is. you just up and quit. there are other jobs, and they pay better money. you're bound to be qualified for at least one of them. so what's stopping you?
speaker1: leave me alone.
speaker2: you're comfortable. this is a life of convenience for you, and any attempt to change it would shatter the pathetic microcosm you've fashioned for yourself.
speaker1: oh, like your life's any better?
speaker2: i'm satisfied with my situation for now. you don't hear me bitching. you, on the other hand, have been all day.
speaker1: thank you. why don't you go back to the video store?
speaker2: it's the same thing with veronica.

speaker1: leave her out of this. 
speaker2: you date veronica because she's low maintenance and because it's convenient. meanwhile, all you ever do is talk about caitlin. you carry a torch for a girl you dated in high school-in high school for sake! you're twenty-two!
speaker1: leave me alone.
speaker2: if you want caitlin, then face veronica, tell her, and be with caitlin. if you want veronica, be with veronica. but don't pine for one and the other. man, if you weren't such a coward...
speaker1: ...if i wasn't such a coward. it must be so great to be able to simplify everything the way you do.
speaker2: am i right or what?
speaker1: you're wrong. things happened today, okay? things that probably ruined my chances with caitlin.
speaker2: what? the dead guy? she'll get over the dead guy. my mom's been a dead guy for thirty years; i call him dad.
speaker1: caitlin and i can't be together.
speaker2: melodrama coming from you seems about as natural as an oral bowel movement.

speaker1: what do you want me to say? yes, i suppose some of the things you're saying may be true. but that's the way things are; it's not going to change. 
speaker2: make them change.
speaker1: i can't, all right! would you leave me alone? i can't make changes like that in my life. if i could, i would-but i don't have the ability to risk comfortable situations on the big money and the fabulous prizes.
speaker2: who're you kidding? you can so.
speaker1: h. christ, i can't!
speaker2: so you'll continue being miserable all the time, just because you don't have the guts to face change?
speaker1: my mother told me once that when i as three, my potty lid was closed, and instead of lifting it, i chose to my pants.
speaker2: lovely story.
speaker1: point is-i'm not the kind of person that disrupts things in order to comfortably.

speaker1: noinch, noinch, noinch-smoking weed, smoking weed! doing coke! drinking beers! a pack of wraps, my good man. it's time to kick back, drink some beers, and smoke some weed! 
speaker2: done poisoning the youth for the day?
speaker1: yes, whatever that means. now i'm gonna head over to atlantic, drink some beers, get ripped, and- please god-get laid. e-z wider, one-and-a-halfs.
speaker2: one seventy-nine.
speaker1: pay the good man. don't you close soon?
speaker2: a half hour.
speaker1: we get off about the same time every night. we should hang out.
speaker2: i should start.
speaker1: wanna come to this party tonight? there's gonna be some there, man!
speaker2: with you? i don't think so.
speaker1: listen to you. oh "oh, i don't hang out with drug dealers."

speaker1: nothing personal. 
speaker2: i work, just like you. you're more of a crook than i am, dude.
speaker1: how do you figure...hey! you can't roll a joint in here!
speaker2: relax brother. what i mean is that you sell the stuff in this store at the highest prices around. a dollar seventy-nine for wraps-what's that
speaker1: it's not my store.
speaker2: and these aren't my drugs-i just sell them.
speaker1: the difference is you exploit a weakness.
speaker2: what's that mean?
speaker1: you sell to people that can't stay away from an addiction.
speaker2: all right. how much is pepsi here?
speaker1: a dollar sixty-nine, plus tax.
speaker2: at food city it's ninety-nine cents, plus tax.
speaker1: so.

speaker1: so why do you sell it for so much more? i'll tell you why-because people come here and they're like "a dollar eighty for soda? i should get it at food city. but i don't feel like driving there. i'll just buy it here so i don't have to drive up there." that's exploiting a weakness, too, isn't it? 
speaker2: i can't believe you just rolled a joint in here.
speaker1: hey, man, what happened with that old guy?
speaker2: he died in the bathroom.
speaker1: that's up. yo, i heard he was jerkin' off.
speaker2: i don't know. i wasn't watching.
speaker1: probably saw that caitlin chick. i know i felt like beatin' it when i saw her. come here, you like this? is this what you want? hunhh?
speaker2: knock it off. that used to be my girlfriend.
speaker1: you used to go out with her?
speaker2: we were going to start again, i think.
speaker1: don't you already have a girlfriend?
speaker2: veronica.

speaker1: is she that girl who's down here all the time? she came here today carrying a plate of food. 
speaker2: lasagne.
speaker1: and what-you were gonna dump her to date that caitlin chick?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: i don't know dude. that caitlin chick's nice. but i see that veronica girl doing for you all the time. she brings you food, she rubs your back...didn't i see her change your tire one day?
speaker2: i jacked the car up. all she did was loosen the nuts and put the tire on.
speaker1: she sure goes out of her way.
speaker2: she's my girlfriend.
speaker1: i've had girlfriends, but all they wanted from me was weed and my grandma used to say, "which is better: a good plate with nothing on it..." no, wait. i up. she said "what's a good- looking plate with nothing on it?"
speaker2: meaning?
speaker1: i don't know. she was senile and used to herself all the time. c'mon silent bob.

speaker1: you know, there's a million fine- looking women in the world, but they don't all bring you lasagne at work. most of them just cheat on you. 
speaker2: he's right. i love her.

speaker1: so that's it. he doesn't love you anymore. he loves caitlin. 
speaker2: and...he told you all of this?
speaker1: pretty much. all except the latent homosexuality part-that's just my theory.
speaker2: i...i don't know what to say.
speaker1: don't hold it against him. he just never got caitlin out of his system. it's not your fault. it's dante. i don't know thing one about chicks. do you want to cry or something? i can leave.
speaker2: i'm not sad.
speaker1: you're not?

speaker1: no, i'm more furious. i'm off. i feel like he's been killing time while he tries to grow the to tell me how he really feels, and then he can't even do it! 
speaker2: he didn't ask me to...
speaker1: after all that i've done for that and he wants to be with that slut? fine! he can have his slut!
speaker2: um, do you think you can give me a lift home tonight?
speaker1: i'm going to have a word with that
speaker2: wait! veronica...i don't think...
speaker2: what am i worried about? he'll probably be glad i started the ball rolling. all he ever did was complain about her anyway. i'm just looking out for his best interests. i mean, that's what a friend does, am i right? i did him a favor.
speaker3: oooh! navy seals!

speaker1: what the did you do that for? 
speaker2: if you didn't want to go out with me anymore, why didn't you just say it? instead, you pussyfoot around and see that behind my back!
speaker1: what're you talking about?
speaker2: you've been talking to her on the phone for weeks!
speaker1: it was only a few times...
speaker2: and then you pull that this morning, freaking out because i've gone down on a couple guys!
speaker1: a couple...?
speaker2: i'm not the one trying to patch things up with my ex, sneaking around behind your back! and if you think that thirty-seven are a lot, then just wait, mister: i'm going to put the hookers in times square to shame with all the guys i go down on now!
speaker1: would you let me explain...
speaker2: explain what? how you were waiting until the time was right, and then you were going to dump me for her?
speaker1: veronica...i...it's not like that anymore...i mean, it was never really like that...

speaker1: you're right it's not like that! because i won't let it be like that! you want your slut? fine! 
speaker2: i don't want caitlin...
speaker1: you don't know what you want, but i'm not going to sit here anymore holding your hand until you figure it out! i've encouraged you to get out of this dump and go back to school, to take charge of your life and find direction. i even transferred so maybe you would be more inclined to go back to college if i was with you. everyone said it was a stupid move, but i didn't care because i loved you and wanted to see you pull yourself out of this senseless funk you've been in since that dumped you, oh so many years ago. and now you want to go back to her so she can you over some more?
speaker2: i don't want to go back with her...
speaker1: of course not; not now! you're caught, and now you're trying to snake out of doing what you wanted to do. well, i won't let you. i want you to follow through on this, just so you can find out what a you are. and when she dumps you again-and she will, dante, i promise you that-when she dumps you again, i want to laugh at you, right in your face, just so you realize that that was what you gave up our relationship for! i'm just glad randal had the to tell me, since you couldn't.

speaker1: randal...? 
speaker2: and having him tell me...that was just the weakest move ever. you're spineless.
speaker1: veronica, i love you...
speaker2: you.

speaker1: how's your eye? 
speaker2: the swelling's not so bad. but the fds stings. how's your neck?
speaker1: it's hard to swallow.
speaker1: you didn't have to choke me.
speaker2: why the did you tell veronica that i was going to dump her for caitlin?
speaker1: i thought i was doing you a favor.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: you were saying how you couldn't initiate change yourself, so i figured i'd help you out.
speaker2: 
speaker1: you still didn't have to choke me.
speaker2: oh please! i'm surprised i didn't kill you.
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker2: why do i say that? randal...forget it.

speaker1: no, really. what did i do that was so wrong? 
speaker2: what don't you do? randal, sometimes it seems like the only reason you come to work is to make my life miserable.
speaker1: how do you figure?
speaker2: what time did you get to work today?
speaker1: like ten after.
speaker2: you were over half an hour late.
speaker1: to talk to you.
speaker2: which means the video store is ostensibly closed.
speaker1: it's not like i'm miles away.
speaker2: unless you're out renting videos at other video stores.
speaker1: hermaphrodites! i rented it so we could watch it together!
speaker2: you get my slapped with a fine, you fight with the customers and i have to patch everything up. you get us chased out of a funeral by violating a corpse. to top it all off, you ruin my relationship. what's your encore? do you anally my mother while pouring sugar in my gas tank?

speaker1: you know what the real tragedy is? i'm not even supposed to be here today! 
speaker2: you. you, pal. listen to you trying to pass the buck again. i'm the source of all your misery. who closed the store to play hockey? who closed the store to attend a wake? who tried to win back an ex- girlfriend without even discussing how he felt with his present one? you wanna blame somebody, blame yourself. "i'm not even supposed to be here today." you sound like an whose choice was it to be here today? nobody twisted your arm. you're here today of your own violation, my friend. but you'd like to believe that the weight of the world rests on your shoulders-that the store would crumble if dante wasn't here. well, i got news for you, jerk: this store would survive without you. without me either. all you do is overcompensate for having what's basically a monkey's job: you push buttons. any moron can waltz in here and do our jobs, but you're obsessed with making it seem so much more important, so much more epic than it really is. you work in a convenience store, dante. and badly, i might add. and i work in a video store. badly, as well. you know, that guy jay's got it right-he has no delusions about what he does. us? we like to make ourselves seem so much better than the people that come in here, just looking to pick up a paper or-god forbid-cigarettes. we look down on them, as it we're so advanced. well, if we're so advanced, then what are we doing working here?

speaker1: i threw out the stuff that got broken. the floor looks clean. 
speaker2: you need a ride?
speaker1: got one. just pulled up.
speaker2: do you work tomorrow?
speaker1: same time. what about you?
speaker2: i'm calling out. going to hit the hospital-see how caitlin is. then try to see veronica.
speaker1: you wanna grab something to eat tomorrow night...after i get out of here?
speaker2: i'll call you. let you know.
speaker1: all right. good luck with veronica. if you want, i can talk to her, you know, and explain...
speaker2: no thanks. i'll take care of it. we've got a lot of to talk about.

speaker1: helluva day. 
speaker2: to say the least.
speaker1: do you need a hug or something? 'cause i would have no hang-ups about hugging you...you know, you being a guy and all. just don't knead my when you do it.
speaker2: get the outta here already.
speaker1: i'm gone. i'll talk to you tomorrow.
speaker1: you're closed.
speaker2: what'd you forget something? oh. i'm sorry, we're closed.

