speaker1: she's beautiful. 
speaker1: she's got the prettiest eyes, and she looks so in that sweater.
speaker2: hi, how are you?
speaker1: i just want to be alone with her and hold her and kiss her...
speaker1: ...and tell her how much i love her and take care of her. stop it, you she's your wife's sister. but i can't help it.
speaker1: i'm consumed by her. it's been months now. i dream about her. i- i, i think about her at the office. oh, lee. what am i gonna do?
speaker1: i hear myself mooning over you, and it's disgusting. before, when she...
speaker1: ...squeezed past me in the doorway, and i smelled that perfume on the back of her neck...
speaker1: ...jesus, i, i thought i was gonna swoon! easy...
speaker1: you're a dignified financial advisor. it doesn't look good for you to swoon.
speaker3: elliot? elliot? sweetheart?
speaker1: mm-hm?
speaker3: have you tried these? these are wonderful. holly and her friend made them.
speaker1: they're fantastic.
speaker3: aren't they great?
speaker1: your sister is an unbelievable cook.
speaker3: i know! i know!
speaker3: she has all the cooking talent.
speaker1: no, she doesn't, either. you've got tons as well.
speaker1: holly, why don't you open your own restaurant?
speaker4: mmm, we practically are. well... not a restaurant, but... april and i are going to do some catering!
speaker3: what? you're kidding!
speaker4: no, no, we decided!
speaker3: perfect!
speaker4: mmm...i mean, we love to cook for our friends, so we thought until an acting job comes through, we could just make some extra money, you know, doing a few private parties.
speaker1: great idea.
speaker3: i know.
speaker1: that's where your talent lies.
speaker4: i know.
speaker4: get outta here. could i speak to you privately?
speaker3: oh, sure.
speaker1: i'm her husband! she tells me anything!

speaker1: hannah, i have to borrow some more money. don't get upset. 
speaker2: mmm, i never get upset over that.
speaker1: this is the last time, i promise. and i'm keeping strict accounts.
speaker2: holly, please. don't insult me.
speaker1: someday, i'll pay it all back.
speaker2: i know. h-how much do you need?
speaker1: two thousand dollars.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: hannah, i know it's a lot, but my friend april and i, we have this catering idea i think's going to be great.
speaker1: you admit that we're great cooks, right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well, in order to get started, there's just a few things i have to buy... and some old debts i have outstanding.
speaker2: will you just tell me one thing?
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: are we talking about cocaine again?
speaker1: i swear. i swear. we've already got some requests to do a few dinner parties.
speaker1: i mean, obviously, i'm not going to be a caterer forever, you know. we both still go to auditions. something could turn up at any moment. but the parties are at night, days are free, i can still take my acting class. i haven't done drugs on a year.

speaker1: "a whimpering, simpering child again bewitched, bothered, and bewildered am i..." 
speaker2: mom and dad are floating down memory lane again!
speaker3: aah... hey, have you tried holly and her friend's shrimp puffs?
speaker2: i think they're fantastic.
speaker3: you've outdone yourself.
speaker4: oh, my thank you.
speaker2: i need an antihistamine. mom thinks she's feeling her asthma, and so...
speaker3: ohh?
speaker4: uh-oh.
speaker2: ...before she starts turning into camille...
speaker4: yeah, mom's camille when she gets up in the morning.
speaker2: at least she isn't drinking. did you notice?
speaker4: mm-hm.
speaker3: doesn't she look great in that new dress?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: don't you think she does?
speaker4: she really does, though.
speaker2: yeah, she knows it, too, 'cause she's flirting with all the men here.
speaker4: 
speaker3: maybe when she's eighty, she'll stop straightening her garter belt when there's a guy around.
speaker4: i should get a garter belt.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: get a garter belt... get a garter belt and flirt.
speaker2: where are the antihistamines?
speaker3: oh, i don-- ask elliot for that.
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: frederick didn't come with her.
speaker3: when does frederick ever come with her?
speaker1: "a pill he is but still he is all mine and i'll keep him until he is bewitched, a'both--"

speaker1: watch out, you guys. beep-beep! 
speaker2: oh, your kids are so adorable.
speaker3: bye! bye!
speaker2: it gets so lonely on the holidays.
speaker1: oh, gosh. well, you know, that's why i invited phil gammage tonight.
speaker2: oh, hannah!
speaker1: it's, uh, you never know--
speaker2: he's such a loser!
speaker1: he's not a loser at all!
speaker2: oh, he's such a loser!
speaker1: he's the headmaster of daisy's school.
speaker2: oh, perfect! he reminds me of ichabod crane. his adam's apple keeps jumping up and down whenever he gets excited.
speaker1: listen. he's a lot better than your ex-husband. he's got a good job. would you light those, please? he's-he's-he's not a dope addict or anything.
speaker2: give me a break.
speaker4: am i interrupting...
speaker4: ...any sister talk?
speaker1: mm-mm!
speaker2: come in.
speaker4: oh, good...
speaker1: come in, come in.
speaker4: ...because there are no interesting single men at this party!
speaker1: oh, listen...
speaker2: i know. it's terrible!
speaker4: i mean, i've looked everywhere.
speaker1: maybe april would like phil. phil gammage, the tall guy in there by the piano.
speaker4: hm-mm. oh, yeah. i met phil.
speaker1: mmm?
speaker4: he's the--he looks like ichabod crane?
speaker4: i love that. that's my type.
speaker1: i can't believe it!
speaker4: no, really, i really like him a lot.
speaker2: no, really, we mustn't get discouraged.
speaker2: hannah will invite some men over who don't look like ichabod crane.
speaker4: mmm.
speaker2: not this thanksgiving, you know.
speaker1: here. be careful with those.
speaker2: maybe at christmas, new year's. if not this new year's, maybe next new year's.
speaker2: ouch!
speaker1: oh!
speaker5: must be here someplace.
speaker6: oh, you know, i, i love that book you lent me. the easter parade? you were right. it had very special meaning for me.
speaker5: how's frederick? he didn't come.
speaker6: oh, well, you know frederick. one of his moods. although it wasn't a bad week. he uh, sold a picture.
speaker5: oh, great.
speaker6: yeah, it was, it was one of his better drawings, a very beautiful study. actually, it was of me. it's funny, you know, it's a funny feeling to know you're being hung naked in some stranger's living room.
speaker6: well, you can't tell it's me, although-- you're turning all red, elliot.
speaker5: really? so, so, what else? wh- what are you up to?
speaker6: oh, i don't know. my unemployment checks are running out. um, i was thinking of taking some courses at columbia with the last of my savings. as lee speaks, elliot parts a hanging curtain against the wall to reveal a stereo and some records. he looks at the offscreen lee.
speaker5: like, uh...?
speaker6: i don't know exactly.
speaker6: uh, sociology, psychology maybe. i always thought i might like to work with children.
speaker5: incidentally, i-i always have clients who are furnishing places. some of them might-might be interested in buying art. shall i, shall i call you?
speaker6: yeah, sure. you know, uh, frederick would really by grateful for a sale.
speaker1: hey, you guys?
speaker1: dinner's ready.
speaker6: oh, great.
speaker1: you look so beautiful.
speaker6: come on.
speaker1: doesn't she look pretty?
speaker6: i bumped into your...
speaker5: yeah.
speaker6: ...ex-husband on the street the other day.
speaker1: oh, yeah?
speaker6: he was, he's just as crazy as ever. he was on his way to get a blood test.
speaker1: mickey's such a hypochondriac. i wonder how he'd handle it if there was ever anything really wrong with him?
speaker5: let's go have dinner, shall we?
speaker1: mmm.
speaker6: good idea.

speaker1: now, ladies and gentlemen... 
speaker2: dad.
speaker2: dad...
speaker3: oh...
speaker2: dad!
speaker1: no, now...
speaker2: i'm starving!
speaker1: ...this is a toast! this is a toast.
speaker4: get his wine away.
speaker1: this is a toast. you know this beautiful thanksgiving dinner was all...
speaker1: ...prepared...by hannah.
speaker4: uh, and a little help...
speaker5: hey!
speaker4: ...from mavis, also.
speaker6: you bet.
speaker4: holly and april, thanks for helping.
speaker1: no, you did it.
speaker2: april, april!
speaker4: i am... i did slave all day.
speaker1: and we drink to her, and we all congratulate her on her wonderful accomplishment during this last year...her great success in a doll's house!
speaker5: ya-a-a-a-y! i played nora. i hate to tell you what year...
speaker5: and it's very difficult to behave like torvald's little chipmunk without making a perfect out of yourself! now i think that ibsen would have been proud of our hannah! norma toasts her daughter; everyone follows her. the applause and cheers begin anew. hannah, reacting, chuckles.
speaker7: speech! speech! speech!
speaker5: yea-a-a-a-ah!
speaker4: i don't know about that. oh, no, i just, see, i-i've been very, very lucky. w-when i had the kids, i decided to stop working and just, you know, devote myself to having the family, and i've been very, very happy but...i've always secretly hoped that maybe some little gem would come along and tempt me back on the stage...
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: oh, bravo! bravo!

speaker1: want some coffee or tea? 
speaker2: no, thank you.
speaker1: how about something to eat?
speaker2: no, nothing.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: mmm, what am i gonna do with you?
speaker1: and why didn't you come tonight? we all had a terrific time. i really think you would have enjoyed yourself.
speaker2: i'm going through a period of my life where i just can't be around people. i didn't want to wind up abusing anyone.
speaker1: you're not going to abuse them.
speaker2: lee... you are the only person i can be with...who i really look forward to being with.
speaker1: you're too harsh with everyone. you know that, don't you?
speaker2: isn't it enough that i can love you?
speaker1: mmm...
speaker2: hmm?
speaker1: ...you're such a puzzle. so sweet with me and so...contemptuous of everyone else.
speaker2: well, there was a time when you were very happy to be only with me. you wanted to learn everything about poetry, about music.
speaker1: mm-hm.
speaker2: have i really taught you everything i have to give? i don't think so.
speaker1: oh, elliot said he might have a couple of clients for you.
speaker2: i'm sure all those morons he handles have a deep feeling for art. lee picks up a book from the stereo shelf. she leans back against the unit, glancing through its pages.
speaker1: mmm you never know. they might. he's just trying to do the nice thing.
speaker2: because he likes you.
speaker1: me?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: elliot lusts after you.
speaker1: based on what? you never even see him.
speaker2: based on...whenever you see him, you always come home full of books he's recommended...
speaker2: ...or films you must see or...
speaker1: oh, no, no, no. he's my sister's husband. and i think if you gave him half a chance, you'd like him. he's very intelligent.
speaker2: he's a glorified accountant, and he's after you. and i prefer to sell my work to people who appreciate it, not to rock stars. you understand?
speaker1: ohhh!

speaker1: what do you mean, they won't let us do the sketch? 
speaker2: talk to standards and practices. they think it's too dirty.
speaker1: but we showed it to them in rehearsal!
speaker3: mickey, we got a half hour to air!
speaker4: we're short! the show is five minutes short!
speaker1: how could it be short? we timed everything long.
speaker2: if we have to...
speaker2: ...pull out the sketch, then we'll be ten minutes short!
speaker1: i don't know how they can do that to us. that's-- we go on in thirty minutes, right?
speaker4: they're doing it because our ratings are low.
speaker1: i got such a migraine.
speaker5: hey, mickey!
speaker5: mickey! listen, we better go right to ronny's dressing room. this kid must have taken sixteen hundred quaaludes. i don't think he's going to be able to do the show!
speaker1: why me, lord? what did i--
speaker1: you-- standards and practices?
speaker6: ed smythe, yes.
speaker1: okay. why, all of a sudden, is the sketch dirty?
speaker6: child molestation is a touchy subject...
speaker1: could you--
speaker6: ...with the affiliates.
speaker1: read the papers! half the country's doing it!
speaker6: yes, but you name names.
speaker1: we nev-- we don't name names! we say the pope.
speaker5: we always say the pope!
speaker6: that sketch...
speaker1: we--
speaker6: ...cannot go on the air.
speaker1: oh, je--
speaker7: hey! mickey, gail, and ed turn towards the writer.
speaker7: who changed my sketch about the plo?
speaker1: i had to make some cuts. it's four lousy lines!
speaker7: the whole premise is ruined!
speaker1: oh, you're crazy! it's not so delicate. everybody's married to every line.
speaker5: mickey, i can--
speaker7: i don't care! i don't want anyone tampering with my work without telling me!
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: all right, all right.
speaker5: mickey, mickey, listen, listen.
speaker1: you know...
speaker5: in-in-in-instead of the child molestation sketch, why don't we repeat the cardinal spellman ronald reagan homosexual dance number?
speaker1: no--
speaker1: yeah, wh-- yeah, what did you do? swallow a drugstore?!
speaker1: look at this guy.
speaker5: yeah?
speaker8: i lost my voice.
speaker1: oh,
speaker5: ron...ronny, you know you do have to go on in twenty-five minutes.
speaker1: hey, does anybody got a tagamet?
speaker8: you want a quaalude?

speaker1: hi! hi! 
speaker2: i know...i know.
speaker1: glad you could put in an appearance.
speaker2: i got two minutes.
speaker1: very good.
speaker2: i gotta see new comedians later, i've gotta--
speaker1: two minutes on your sons' birthday. you know, it's not going to kill you.
speaker2: happy birthday, fellas! happy birthday!
speaker1: guys, look what daddy brought. presents!
speaker2: yeah, aren't you like, you know...
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: ...a little, uh, hey! a little hug! what is this? now how 'bout a little action from the kids?
speaker2: how is everything?
speaker1: everything's good. everything's fine.
speaker2: yeah? yeah? okay, kids, you can open the presents now.
speaker2: let me get a little reaction here. how's elliot?
speaker1: he's fine.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: oh, you know what? i'm trying to convince him to produce a play.
speaker2: oh!
speaker1: i think he'll find that satisfying.
speaker2: really? that'll be terrific for him, i think.
speaker1: i think so.
speaker2: i like him. i think he's a sweet guy.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: the few times that i've met him... isn't that a great mitt?
speaker3: thank you, daddy.
speaker2: 'cause he's a loser.
speaker1: ohh!
speaker2: h-he's so awkward and he's clumsy like me...
speaker1: i know, i know.
speaker2: ...so i, so i like that. i always like an underconfident person...
speaker1: that's really nice!
speaker2: ...you know? i, uh...
speaker1: you know, he's been wanting a mitt.
speaker2: you've always had good taste in husbands, so...
speaker1: thanks, thanks.
speaker2: mh-hm.
speaker1: that's a beauty!
speaker2: isn't that great?
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: go right over there.
speaker1: football!
speaker2: come on! hurry up! let's go!
speaker1: wow!
speaker2: go out, go out by the sung vase and, and catch this.
speaker2: see?
speaker1: hey, d-- watch, watch the picture.

speaker1: gee, hannah's sweet. although, sometimes i still do get angry when i think of things. oh, what the hell. at least, i'm not paying child support. oh, i hope there's nothing physically wrong with me, either. 
speaker2: so what's the, uh, problem this time?
speaker1: so, so, but it was when i was younger, so--
speaker2: you know, i saw your father this week about his sinus...
speaker1: mm-hm.
speaker2: ...and, uh, he complained of chest pains.
speaker1: well, this guy's the real hypochondriac of the family. i mean, he's, you know, he's--
speaker2: you mentioned on the phone that you'd had some dizziness.
speaker1: yes, a little dizziness, and i think, i think i'm developing a hearing loss in my right ear ...or my left ear, my, my left...oh, n-n-n-no. no, i'm sorry. it was my right, my right, my right or my left ear.
speaker1: now i ca-can't remember.
speaker2: let's take a look.
speaker2: well, i'm sorry to say you have had a significant drop in the high- decibel range of your right ear.
speaker1: really?!
speaker2: have you been exposed to a loud noise recently, or did you have a virus?
speaker1: no, i-i've been perfectly healthy. you know me.
speaker1: i always, i-i always imagine that i have things.
speaker2: when did you first notice this?
speaker2: you've had some dizzy spells. what about ringing and buzzing?
speaker1: yes, now-now that you mention it, uh, i-i-i have, uh, buzzing and also ringing. ringing and buzzing.
speaker2: and it's just in one ear?
speaker1: yes, is it, is it, uh, healthier to have problems in both ears?
speaker2: what i'd like to do, is to make an appointment for you at the hospital.
speaker1: the hospital? what kind of tests?
speaker2: now, don't get alarmed. these are just more sophisticated audiometry tests than i can run here. i mean, it's, it's nothing.
speaker1: well, if it's nothing, then why do i have to go into the hospital at all? i mean, uh, i hear perfectly fine, so i'm, so i'm a little weak on the, on the high decibels. so i, you know, i won't go to the opera.
speaker2: you know, there's no reason for panic. i just want to rule out some things.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: it's nothing. will you trust me?

speaker1: huh, uh, hello, dr. wilkes? dr. wilkes, this is mickey sachs. you have a minute? i want to ask you a question. 
speaker2: sure, mickey. what's up?
speaker1: i-if you have, i-if you have a hearing loss in one ear, and-and it's not from a, uh, virus or a loud noise or anything, wh-what are the possibilities?
speaker2: anything. uh, often it's hereditary. flu, uh, even a small noise will do it.
speaker1: uh, right, but-but nothing worse?
speaker2: well, yes, i guess the, uh, dark side of the spectrum is a brain tumor.
speaker1: really?

speaker1: okay, so here's the new pages. 
speaker2: say, did cards get these?
speaker1: no, not yet. no.
speaker3: well, let's hope it's good.
speaker1: yeah, really. really.
speaker1: eh, we'll be down in a minute, okay?
speaker1: mickey, what's the matter with you? you're all white!
speaker4: i feel dizzy. sshh, you know, i don't feel well.
speaker4: do you hear a ringing? is there, is there a, is there a ringing sound?
speaker1: yeah. yeah, yeah. i hear, i hear it.
speaker4: n-n-no, not that.
speaker1: hello?
speaker4: like--
speaker1: uh, yeah, yeah. we're going to be working late tonight. n-no, we'll order out. it's all right. yeah.
speaker4: sssss, if i have a brain tumor, i don't know what i'm gonna do.
speaker1: you don't have a brain tumor. he didn't say you had a brain tumor.
speaker4: no, naturally they're not gonna tell you, because, well, you know, th--, sometimes the weaker ones will panic if you tell 'em.
speaker1: but not you.
speaker4: oh, do you hear a buzzing? is there a buzzing?
speaker1: mickey, come on, we got a show to do!
speaker4: i can't keep my mind on the show.
speaker1: but there's nothing wrong with you.
speaker4: if there's nothing wrong with me then why does he want me to come back for tests?!
speaker1: well, he has to rule out certain things.
speaker4: like what?! what?
speaker1: i don't know. cancer, i--
speaker4: don't say that! i don't want to hear that word! don't mention that while i'm in the building.
speaker1: but you don't have any symptoms!
speaker4: you--i got the classic symptoms of a brain tumor!
speaker1: two months ago, you thought you had a malignant melanoma.
speaker4: naturally, i, i--do you know i--the sudden appearance of a black spot on my back!
speaker1: it was on your shirt!
speaker4: i--how was i to know?! everyone was pointing back here.
speaker1: come on, we've got to make some booking decisions.
speaker4: i can't. i can't think of it. this morning, i was so happy, you know. now i, i don't know what went wrong.
speaker1: eh, you were miserable this morning! we got bad reviews, terrible ratings, the sponsors are furious...
speaker4: no, i was happy, but i just didn't realize i was happy.

speaker1: oh, um, those are quail eggs. 
speaker2: oh, they're very good.
speaker1: yeah, my friend april makes those. here, try the shrimp puffs. these are delicious.
speaker2: oh, thank you. that looks great.
speaker1: i make those.
speaker2: mmm. thanks.
speaker1: excuse me.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: the stroganoff is ready.
speaker1: we're a big hit.
speaker3: oh, in this we're a big hit. yesterday i auditioned for come back little sheba. that, i wasn't such a big hit.
speaker4: excuse me, are there any more claims?
speaker1: only a few. a few. do you like 'em?
speaker4: i can't resist.
speaker1: really? how flattering! did you try the shrimp puffs?
speaker4: listen, you guys are too attractive to be caterers. something's wrong.
speaker1: we're actresses.
speaker4: is this your first job?
speaker1: really? is the food that bad?
speaker4: oh no. not at all.
speaker3: we need more bread and some baked lasa-- uh, lasagne. hi.
speaker4: i know. you're an actress with a great flair for shrimp puffs.
speaker3: uh, no, the shrimp puffs are holly's. i do the, uh, crãªpes caviar.
speaker4: and the quail is responsible for the quail eggs.
speaker3: well, let's hope so.
speaker1: here, i stole you a couple of extra clams.
speaker4: ah!
speaker1: now.
speaker4: incidentally, i'm david tolchin.
speaker3: oh, uh, april knox. hi.
speaker4: hi.
speaker3: oh.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker4: you're holly.
speaker1: yeah, we're the stanislavski catering company.
speaker4: now i'm going to tell you the truth. i really came in here because i was bored stiff by the party.
speaker3: no...no. no--
speaker1: not at all.
speaker1: we saw, um, pavarotti, eh, uh, in ernani at the met, and i cried...
speaker4: i cry at the opera.
speaker4: me, too. i have a private box at the met. i bring my little bottle of wine, i open it, i sit there and i watch and i cry. it's disgusting.
speaker1: oh, what, what do you do?
speaker4: i'm an architect.
speaker3: wha-- what kind of things do you build?
speaker4: are you really interested?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: what time do you get off?

speaker1: wow, it's the red one? 
speaker2: oh, it's magnificent!
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: it's terrific!
speaker3: the design's deliberately noncontextural. but i wanted to... keep the atmosphere of the street, you know, and the proportions.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker3: and in the material. that's...that's unpolished red granite.
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: oh, is that what it is?
speaker1: uh--
speaker2: i-i-it has an o-organic quality, you know.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: it's almost...almost, uhhh, entirely wholly interdependent, if you know what i mean. i-i... i can't put it into words. the important thing is-is-is it-it breathes.
speaker3: you know, april, people pass by vital structures in this city all the time, and they never take the time to appreciate them. i get the feeling you tune in to your environment.
speaker2: oh--
speaker1: oh, it's really important.
speaker2: what are your favorite buildings, david?
speaker3: you want to see some?
speaker2: oh, yeah.
speaker3: well, let's do it.
speaker2: great.
speaker1: oh, it's just so romantic. i just want to put on a long gown...
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: ...and open the french doors and go on the balcony --
speaker2: it's french, though. it really is.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: it feels like you're in france.
speaker3: it-it is. it's romantic.
speaker3: and it's got a handsome partner sitting right beside it.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: they fit right in together. and your eye goes along, lulled into complacency, and then...
speaker2: that's just --
speaker3: look at this.
speaker1: that's disgusting!
speaker2: ...a monstrosity! who would do that?
speaker1: it's really terrible.
speaker3: it's really sad.
speaker1: and it ruins everything else.
speaker3: it does.
speaker2: well...we have seen a lot of stuff today, though.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: a lot of works.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: maybe we should start thinking about going home, huh?
speaker1: fast.
speaker2: oh, geez, yeah.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: uh, who gets dropped first?
speaker2: uh --
speaker1: oh, gee, i don't know. um...
speaker3: well...
speaker2: well, i live downtown.
speaker1: yeah, i, we both live downtown.
speaker2: uh...
speaker1: it depends on what way you want to go.
speaker2: well, wait. you know what? i know.
speaker1: uh...
speaker2: if...well, if we took the, if we took fifth, then-then-then we'd get to your house first, yeah?
speaker3: we could...we could do that.
speaker1: right. yeah, but fifth is so jammed, isn't it?
speaker2: well, sometimes, some, uh...
speaker1: i mean, it's jammed. if we went... um...
speaker3: y-you live in chelsea, don't you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: well, i-i guess if you live in chelsea, that's probably first.
speaker1: oh, okay.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: and then, uh, april...huh?
speaker2: great.
speaker1: naturally i get taken home first. well, obviously he prefers april. of course i was so tongue-tied all night. i can't believe i said that about the guggenheim. my stupid little roller-skating joke. i should never tell jokes. mom can tell 'em and hannah, but i kill 'em. where did april come up with that stuff about adolph loos and terms like "organic form"? well, naturally. she went to brandeis. the movie cuts to holly's point of view: the front seat
speaker1: but i don't think she knows what she's talking about. could you believe the way she was calling him david? "yes, david. i feel that way, too, david. what a marvelous space, david." i hate april. she's pushy.
speaker1: now they'll dump me and she'll invite him up. i blew it. and i really like him a lot. oh, screw it. i'm not gonna get all upset. i've got reading to do tonight. you know, maybe i'll get into bed early. i'll turn to a movie and take an extra seconal.

speaker1: oh, my goodness! 
speaker2: oh, elliot!
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: well, i'm-i'm looking for a bookstore.
speaker2: oh, what, in this section of town?
speaker1: yes. yeah, i-i'm kill--
speaker2: you're out looking here?
speaker1: well, yes, i'm killing time. i have a client near here and i...i'm quite early.
speaker2: ohhhh!
speaker1: how about you?
speaker2: oh. well, i live--
speaker1: oh, yes! you live near here, don't you?
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker1: where are you headed?
speaker2: oh, i was just going to my aa meeting.
speaker1: oh, my goodness. well, why do you still go to those? you never tough alcohol.
speaker2: well, listen, you didn't know me before frederick. i'd...i'd start with a beer at about ten in the morning, and...go on.
speaker1: oh. you must have been, uh, very unhappy.
speaker2: yeah, unhappy and fat. and i still find the meetings very comforting, you know.
speaker1: i'll never understand it. you're so bright and charming and beautiful.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: i think to myself what problems could she possibly have?
speaker2: don't let me get started on my childhood. oh, you know what? there is a bookstore.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: a couple of blocks from here. if you don't know about it, you should.
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: yeah, you would.
speaker1: well, i-if-if you have some free time...
speaker2: yeah, sure.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: isn't this great? they have everything here.
speaker1: yes, it's-it's wonderful.
speaker2: what book did you want to buy?
speaker1: what? book?
speaker1: oh, book? oh, no, i... i'm killing time. i...i-i just, uh, w-want to browse, uh...
speaker2: well, you sure picked the right place. i mean, you can stay here all afternoon, not buy anything and just read.
speaker1: unless, of course, if-if you had some time, i mean, we could get some coffee.
speaker2: no, i don't have time.
speaker1: no, no. i-i-i understand completely.
speaker2: you seem tense. is everything all right? you feel okay?
speaker1: no! no...
speaker2: no?
speaker1: uh, yes!
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: everything's okay?
speaker1: yeah. how are you?
speaker2: i'm...all right.
speaker1: how-how's frederick?
speaker2: fine. oh, we went to the caravaggio exhibition at the met. it's such a treat to go through a museum with frederick. i mean...you learn so much. do you like caravaggio?
speaker1: oh, yes. who doesn't? look!
speaker1: e.e. cummings. i'd like to get you this.
speaker2: oh, no, i can't let you get me that.
speaker1: oh, oh, yes. i-i-i-'d like to, uh, uh, very much.
speaker2: no, i don't think so.
speaker1: i-i read a poem of you and thought of his last week. a poem of his and thought of you last-- you'll be fine, though.
speaker2: uh, uh, this is great. i mean, i love e.e. cummings, but i can't let you get this.
speaker1: yes, i'd...i-i-i'd love, i'd love to get you this.
speaker2: well, sure.
speaker2: well, thanks a lot.
speaker1: thanks for showing me the bookstore. perhaps you could, uh, take me to an aa meeting sometime. uh...uh, i'd love to see what goes on.
speaker2: well, yeah, yeah. you'd love it. it's really entertaining. you'd have a good time. i know you would.
speaker1: and, uh, d-don't forget the poem on page a hundred and twelve. it reminded me of you.
speaker2: really? well...
speaker1: page a hundred and twelve.
speaker2: bye.
speaker1: bye.

speaker1: "your slightest look easily will unclose me though i have closed myself as fingers, you open always petal by petal myself... as lee continues to read aloud, the movie cuts to elliot's darkened den, lit by a light in the hallway. elliot enters, wearing a robe, crossing the room in the dark. 
speaker1: "...as spring opens [touching skillfully, mysteriously] her first rose [i do not know what it is about you that closes and opens; only something in me understands the voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses]...
speaker1: "nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands."

speaker1: i wasn't too happy with the results of your eng or your bser either. 
speaker1: uh, which is why i sent you to tomography, which was all that stuff you saw rolling around. you see this little gray area here?
speaker1: that gray area's what i had hoped that we wouldn't run into. i'd like you to come in monday morning for, uh, a cat scan.
speaker2: a brain scan?
speaker1: mr. sachs, let's take one step at a time. we won't make any decisions until we have all the information in front of us, all right?

speaker1: okay...take it easy. he didn't say you had anything. he just doesn't like the spot on your x-ray, that's all. it doesn't mean you have anything. don't jump to conclusions. nothing's gonna happen to you. you're in the middle of new york city. this is your town. you're surrounded by people and traffic and restaurants. 
speaker1: i mean, how can you, how can you just one day...vanish? keep calm. you're gonna be okay. don't panic.

speaker1: i'm dying! i'm dying! i know it! there's a spot on my lungs! all right now, take it easy, will you? it's not on your lungs. it's on your ear. no, it's the same thing, isn't it? oh, jeez, i can't sleep! oh, there's a tumor in my head the size of a basketball! n-now i keep thinking i can feel it every time i blink! oh, he-he-he wants me to do a brain scan to confirm what he already suspects. 
speaker1: look...i'll make a deal with let it just be my ear, okay? i'll go deaf. i'll go deaf and blind in one eye maybe. but i don't want a brain operation! once they go into my skull, i'll-i'll wind up like the guy with the, with the wool cap who delivers for the florist!
speaker1: oh, relax, will ya? your whole life you run to doctors. the news is always fine. that's not true. what about years ago?
speaker2: i'm sorry to say, mr. sachs, that you cannot have children.
speaker1: gee.
speaker3: is there no chance?
speaker2: well, naturally, this doesn't mean that you can't have a normal life. but mr. sachs's tests indicate that he is infertile. small sperm volume and infertile.
speaker1: isn't there anything i can do?
speaker2: i'm afraid not.
speaker1: well, i gotta get a second opinion.
speaker3: this is the second opinion.
speaker2: i realize this is a blow. my experience is that many very fine marriages become unstable and are destroyed by an inability to deal with this sort of problem. i hope you won't make too much of it. one can adopt children, and there are various artificial methods of fertilization.

speaker1: i'm so humiliated. i don't know what to say. i mean-- 
speaker2: could you have ruined yourself somehow?
speaker1: how could i ruin myself? what do you mean, ruin myself?
speaker2: i don't know. excessive masturbation?
speaker1: hey, you gonna start knocking my hobbies?
speaker1: maybe, maybe we can adopt a child.
speaker2: well, what about artificial insemination?
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: you know, where i-i-i would get implanted from a-a donor.
speaker1: what, by a st-stranger?
speaker2: yeah, they have these banks, you know, where they keep them frozen.
speaker1: fro--? you want a-a defrosted kid?
speaker2: i want to experience childbirth.
speaker1: with a, with a stranger? with a--
speaker2: just think about it. that's all i ask.
speaker3: oh, that was a wonderful show. i think that's the best show you two ever wrote.
speaker4: no, the funniest show that mickey and i ever did was the one we won the emmy for.
speaker1: yeah...i-i think as, i think as far as laughs, i mean just plain laughs, you know, that was probably the best thing that we ever did.
speaker4: mm-hm.
speaker3: yeah, it was funny, it was very funny. but the show was about the two frenchmen, now that was funny and it was warm.
speaker4: we got that idea on that trip to paris.
speaker3: right.
speaker4: hmm?
speaker3: do you remember that summer in france? hannah, you had jet lag for six straight weeks.
speaker1: yeah, but it was, you know, i guess we had fun when we were there and, you know, it's just, i--
speaker4: mm-hm.
speaker2: sorry. coffee? listen, you guys, we were-- you want some more?
speaker4: mmm.
speaker2: we-we...we had something we-we really wanted to discuss with you.
speaker1: yeah...
speaker1: jeez, this is, this is, this is very delicate and-and i only bring this up amongst friends, you know.
speaker1: i mean... this is, uh... this should not go any further than this room.
speaker4: i'm all ears.
speaker1: hannah and i...can't have any children. now i-i-i don't want to get into whose fault it-- it's my fault that we can't and- and-and the details are too embarrassing to--
speaker2: w-w-we-we've decided after a lot of discussion that we-we'd try with artificial insemination.
speaker1: yeah, i'm not so sure that i, that i like that idea myself, anyway-- he starts to pace behind the couch anew.
speaker2: um, i-i didn't really want to, you know, go to a sperm bank or something, have some anonymous donor. i-i just, you know, i-i-i wouldn't want that.
speaker1: right. we felt that if we were gonna do it, that we would like somebody who we knew and who we liked and who was warm and bright and...
speaker2: and you can say no... you know. feel free to say no. w-we realize it has all kinds of implications.
speaker1: yeah, but the-the point that, uh, that we're making here is that we need some sperm.
speaker4: gee. well... my first reaction after the initial shock is, uh, flattered that you would ask me. carol glances at norman.
speaker1: yeah, well, i would be the father. you would just have to into a little cup.
speaker4: i can handle that.
speaker2: obviously we wou-wouldn't have intercourse.
speaker3: gosh, listen. i've gotta tell you the truth here.
speaker2: carol, i know it's a lot to ask.
speaker3: well...i feel for you. i do. i...i'm gonna cry. you want my husband to have a child with you?
speaker2: ye-- d-d-d-don't answer now. just, you know, take it home and think about it for a while.
speaker4: i gave blood before and, uh...
speaker3: okay, norman, listen, i really want to talk about this at home. i think it's a matter for your analyst...and mine.
speaker4: and maybe my lawyer.
speaker1: so you had my ex-partner's baby. twins. maybe that did cause some trouble, but i think we were drifting apart anyhow. now instead of man and wife we're just good friends. boy, love is really unpredictable.

speaker1: lee, frederick...say hello to dusty frye. 
speaker2: hi, dusty.
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: dusty's just bought a huge house in southampton and he's in the process of decorating it.
speaker3: yeah. it's kind of a weird place, actually. a lotta wall space.
speaker2: oh.
speaker3: how ya doin', man?
speaker1: i told him about your work, and he's very excited.
speaker3: yeah, i got an andy warhol. and i got a frank stella, too. oh, it's very beautiful. big, weird...you know. if you stare at that stella too long, the colors just seem to float. it's kinda weird.
speaker2: are you excited about becoming a collector?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker3: i got a lot more to learn, though. i really wasn't into art when i was a kid.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker4: do you appreciate drawings?
speaker3: yeah. oh! hey! wow! she's beautiful. but, uh, really, i-i-i-i need something... i'm looking for something big.
speaker2: big. frederick, show him the oils.
speaker4: they're in the basement.
speaker2: frederick's done this whole new series that i'm sure you would really love.
speaker3: well, are...are they big?
speaker2: yeah. some of them...yeah, some of them are very big.
speaker3: 'cause i got a lot of wall space there.
speaker4: i don't sell my work by the yard!
speaker2: oh, frederick!
speaker1: how's everything?
speaker2: oh, you know...i talked to hannah this morning on the phone, and she said that you two might be going to the country for the weekend.
speaker1: yeah, she loves to go out in the woods.
speaker2: oh, yeah.
speaker1: but i go nuts. it's a conflict.
speaker2: i have to get my teeth cleaned this week.
speaker1: oh, that's nice.
speaker1: i figured i'd get, uh, frederick and dusty together.
speaker2: oh, yeah, that's really nice of you.
speaker1: yes. this kid, he's earned a trillion dollars.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: he's got like six gold records.
speaker2: oh, speaking of records...i bought that mozart trio you recommended...
speaker2: ...and the man in the record shop showed me another one that i think you'd love. it's a... another bach, second movement. she pulls the record out of its jacket and puts it on the turntable.
speaker1: oh, you-you have that one?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: oh, i would love to hear it.
speaker2: oh, and holly met a wonderful man who loves opera. an architect.
speaker2: isn't that beautiful?
speaker1: i know this. bach. minor concerto. it's one of my favorites.
speaker1: uh...did you ever get around to e.e.
speaker2: yes, he's just adorable.
speaker2: they have a very large gay clientele, you know, where i get my teeth cleaned, and...all the hygienists now wear gloves because they're afraid of aids.
speaker1: oh, right.
speaker1: did you ever get around to the poem on page a hundred and twelve?
speaker2: yes, it made me cry it was so beautiful...so romantic.
speaker1: i want so badly to kiss her. not here, you you've got to get her alone someplace.
speaker1: but i've got to proceed cautiously. this is a very delicate situation. okay, uh...ask her if you can see her for lunch or a drink tomorrow.
speaker1: and be ready to make light of the offer if she's unresponsive. this has to be done very skillfully, very diplomatically.
speaker2: did you ever read this one--?
speaker2: elliot! don't!
speaker1: lee! lee! lee, i'm in love with you.
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: what are you doing?!
speaker1: i...i'm-i'm-i'm-i'm sorry. i have to talk to you for... there's so much that i want to tell you.
speaker2: elliot!
speaker4: please forget it! i don't have any interest in selling anything!
speaker3: i ask you if you have something with a little puce in it, you gotta fly off the handle!
speaker2: what's the problem?
speaker4: i'm not interested in what your interior decorator would think, okay?!
speaker3: well, i can't commit to anything without consulting her first.
speaker4: this is degrading! you don't buy paintings to blend in with the sofa!
speaker3: it's not a sofa, it's an ottoman! forget it! let's just get outta here, elliot.
speaker1: we'll go.
speaker3: what a weirdo that guy is! paranoid. what's the matter with you?
speaker1: look i-i-i'll be okay. i'll be okay.
speaker3: it's not that big a deal. we just didn't hit it off.
speaker1: now, look, you-you-you go on ahead.
speaker3: are you okay? you look-- you're sweatin'.
speaker1: yeah. yeah, i just-just need so- some-some fresh air. it's probably something i ate. i'll-i'll walk. you go ahead.
speaker1: you go. go on. go.
speaker4: hello? hello? hello?
speaker2: oh! there you are!
speaker2: i was looking for you.
speaker1: i, i must apologize. i-i'm, i-i'm sorry. i'm so mixed up.
speaker1: wh--, uh, i know, i know but, i am in love with you.
speaker2: oh, don't say those words!
speaker1: i-i, i'm sorry. i know it's terrible.
speaker2: why, you know the situation.
speaker1: i know! i-i-i-i, i realize.
speaker2: what do you expect me to say?
speaker1: hannah and i are in the last stages.
speaker2: wh-- she's never said anything, and we're very close. she'd tell me such a thing.
speaker1: wh--, it-it-it-it, it's so sad. she's crazy about me, but somewhere on the, along the line, i've fallen out of love with her.
speaker2: not because of me, i hope.
speaker1: oh, no, no. well, yes! i love you.
speaker2: oh, i can't be the cause of anything between you and hannah. i jus--
speaker1: oh, no, no, no. it, uh, it-it-it- it was i-inevitable that hannah and i part, anyway.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: tch, w-well, for a million reasons.
speaker2: but not over me?
speaker1: tch, no! we were, we were both going in different directions.
speaker2: poor hannah.
speaker1: but-but, but how about you? do you, do you share any of my feelings? or is this just an unpleasant embarrassment to you?
speaker2: i can't say anything!
speaker1: w-well, please be candid. i, i-i don't want you to feel bad.
speaker2: yes! but i...i have certain feelings for you, but don't make me say anything more, all right?
speaker1: o-o-o-okay, lee. okay, okay. you, you, y-you've said enough. it's my responsibility now. i will work things out.
speaker2: look, don't do anything on my behalf. i live with frederick, and hannah and i are close.
speaker1: yes, but you, you do care about me.
speaker2: oh, elliot, please! i can't be a party to this! i'm suddenly wracked with guilt just standing her talking to you on the street!
speaker1: your guilt is because you feel the same.
speaker2: oh, please, i have to go. i have to get my teeth cleaned.
speaker1: i have my answer. i have my answer! i'm walking on air!

speaker1: hi. how's she doing? 
speaker2: i am glad to see you.
speaker2: she's in the kitchen there. it's the same thing. same thing. she promises, promises. but it's all lies.
speaker1: don't make it worse, dad.
speaker2: always.
speaker1: hi, mom. how you doing? here, let me get you some coffee. that's enough of that. what triggered it?
speaker2: we were making a commercial down at the mayor's office, and there was this young, good-looking salesman...
speaker2: ...and your mother was throwing herself at him in a disgusting way, and when she found she was too old to seduce him, that he was just embarrassed by her--
speaker3: liar! liar!
speaker2: then at lunch she got drunker and drunker and finally she became joan collins!
speaker3: ...from this non-person, this, th- th-this haircut that passes for a man. he could never support us. it's a good thing we had a talented daughter!
speaker2: i can only hope that she was mine. with you as her mother her father could be anybody in actors' equity!
speaker3: she's talented...so it's not likely she's yours!
speaker1: dad, could you just please stay in the other room and let me take care of her?
speaker2: you never know when she's going to fall off the wagon and humiliate everybody.
speaker1: here, mom. drink this. you know, you're awful. you probably were flirting.
speaker3: no! i like to joke around and have fun, and he gets angry because i get the attention. he's gotten sourer as he's gotten older, and i've tried to stay young...at heart.
speaker1: you promised to stay on the wagon.
speaker3: the sacrifices i've made because of that man. he's ruined me with his ego, his philandering, his-- his-his-his-his mediocrity!
speaker1: okay, stop being so dramatic.
speaker3: he's the one that's made every ingenue in stock!
speaker1: okay, okay.
speaker3: th-th-they, they wanted me for a screen test.
speaker1: yeah, i know, mom.
speaker3: but i, i knew that he'd get up there and he'd flounder around with his expensive haircuts and hairdos and clothes. he's all show! now how can you act when there's nothing inside to come out?! norma sips her coffee, softly sobbing. hannah, reacting, walks away from the counter and, capping the bottle of pills, puts them back in the cupboard. evan plays the piano offscreen. the camera moves in on hannah's face as she reflects, her voice heard over the screen.
speaker1: she was so beautiful at one time, and he was so dashing. both of them just full of promise and hopes that never materialized.
speaker1: and the fights and the constant infidelities to prove themselves...and blaming each other. it's s-sad. they loved the idea of having us kids, but raising us didn't interest them much. but it's impossible to hold it against them. they didn't know anything else.
speaker3: you know, of all of us in the family, you were the one blessed with the true gift.
speaker1: ohhh, my true gift is luck, mom.
speaker1: i just had a lot of luck...from my first show, you know? i've always thought lee was the one destined for great things.
speaker3: yes, she's lovely, but she doesn't have your spark. she knows it. she worships you. she wouldn't dare get up there on the stage.
speaker1: now, holly's not shy.
speaker3: no, holly's game for anything.
speaker1: true.

speaker1: mr. sachs, i'm afraid the news is not good. 
speaker1: if i can show you exactly where the tumor is, and why we feel that surgery would be of no use.
speaker2: it's over. i'm face-to-face with eternity.
speaker1: ...grown quite large without being detected...
speaker2: not later, but now. i'm so frightened i can't move, speak, or breathe.
speaker1: well, you're just fine. there's absolutely nothing here at all. and your tests are all fine. i must admit, i was concerned, given your symptoms. what caused this hearing loss in one ear, i guess we'll never really know for sure. but whatever it was, it's certainly not anything serious at all. i'm very relieved.

speaker1: what do you mean you're quitting? why? the news is good! you don't have canc--the thing. 
speaker2: do you realize what a thread we're all hanging by?
speaker1: mickey, you're off the hook. you should be celebrating.
speaker2: can you understand how meaningless everything is? everything! i'm talking about nnnn--our lives, the show...the whole world, it's meaningless.
speaker1: yeah...but you're not dying!
speaker2: no, i'm not dying now, but, but you know, when i ran out of the hospital, i, i was so thrilled because they told me i was going to be all right. and i'm running down the street, and suddenly i stop, 'cause it hit me, all right, so, you know, i'm not going to go today. i'm okay. i'm not going to go tomorrow. but eventually, i'm going to be in that position.
speaker1: you're just realizing this now?
speaker2: well, i don't realize it now, i know it all the time, but, but i managed to stick it in the back of my mind... as mickey continues to talk offscreen, gail closes the cabinet drawer and walks to a file cabinet behind mickey's desk.
speaker2: ...because it-it's a very horrible thing to... think about!
speaker1: yeah. what?
speaker2: can i tell you something? can i tell you a secret?
speaker1: yes, please.
speaker2: a week ago, i bought a rifle.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i went into a store, i bought a rifle. i was gonna... you know, if they told me that i had a tumor, i was going to kill myself. the only thing that mighta stopped me, might've, is my parents would be devastated. i would, i woulda had to shoot them, also, first. and then, i have an aunt and uncle, i would have... you know, it would have been a bloodbath.
speaker1: tch, well, you know, eventually it, it is going to happen to all of us.
speaker2: yes, but doesn't that ruin everything for you? that makes everything...
speaker2: ...you know it, it just takes the pleasure out of everything. i mean, you're gonna die, i'm gonna die, the audience is gonna die, the network's gonna-- the sponsor.
speaker1: i know, i know, and your hamster.
speaker2: yes!
speaker1: listen, kid, i think you snapped your cap.
speaker1: maybe you need a few weeks in bermuda, or something. or go to a whorehouse! no?
speaker2: i can't stay on this show. i gotta get some answers. otherwise i'm telling you, i'm going to do something drastic.

speaker1: i thought you weren't coming. 
speaker2: i almost didn't.
speaker1: lee... uh...
speaker2: i didn't sleep all night.
speaker1: no, no-no-no, i'm sure.
speaker2: what are we doing, meeting in a hotel room? it's terrible, isn't it?
speaker1: i-i couldn't think where to invite you without taking risks.
speaker2: i promised myself i wouldn't let this happen till you were living alone. i was so torn when you called.
speaker1: i've wanted to call you everyday since i first told you how i felt.
speaker1: i resisted so many times. don't think badly of me.
speaker1: this is not an easy situation.
speaker2: i know it isn't.
speaker2: that was just perfect. you've ruined me for anyone else.
speaker1: i don't want anyone else ever to have you.
speaker2: i was so worried i wouldn't compare with hannah.
speaker1: oh, my
speaker1: you really do have those thoughts, don't you?
speaker2: oh, all the time.
speaker2: i know she must be a really passionate person.
speaker1: yes, she's, she's very warm, but, but it-it's me that wants to be giving to you. i-i-i want to do things for you. hannah doesn't need me as much. i'm being presumptuous. not that you need me.
speaker2: i want you to take care of me... and i love when you do things to me.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: lucy and i kept talking, and i didn't realize how late it had gotten.
speaker1: you missed a very dull tv show about auschwitz. more gruesome film clips...and more puzzled intellectuals declaring their mystification over the systematic murder of millions.
speaker1: the reason why they could never answer the question "how could it possibly happen?" is that it's the wrong question. given what people are, the question is "why doesn't it happen more often?" of course it does, in subtler forms.
speaker2: i have a little headache from this weather.
speaker1: you see the whole culture...nazis, deodorant salesman, wrestlers...beauty contests, the talk show... can you imagine the level of a mind that watches wrestling? hmm? but the worst are the fundamentalist preachers...third- rate con men, telling the poor suckers that watch them that they speak for jesus...and to please send in money. money, money, money! if came back, and saw what's going on in his name, he'd never stop throwing up.
speaker2: oh, frederick, could you please lighten up?! i'm really not in the mood to hear a review of contemporary society again.
speaker1: you know, you've been very nervous lately.
speaker2: i can't take this anymore.
speaker1: i'm just trying to complete an education i started on you five years ago.
speaker2: i'm not your pupil. i was, but i'm not.
speaker1: when you leave the nest, i just want you to be ready to face the real world.
speaker2: frederick, we're going to have to make some changes.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: oh, you know what. i'm suffocating!
speaker1: oh! are we going to have this conversation again?
speaker2: yes, we're going to have this conversation again. i...i have to leave. i have to move out.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because i have to!
speaker1: what are you going to use for money?!
speaker2: i don't know. i thought, maybe i'd move in with my parents for a while.
speaker1: tch, oh. i always told you you would leave me. but...does it have to be now?
speaker2: well, maybe it'll only be temporary, but i ha--i have to try.
speaker1: oh...lee, you are my whole world. good have you been kissed tonight?!
speaker2: no.
speaker1: oh, yes, you have!
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you've been with someone!
speaker2: stop accusing me!
speaker2: leave me alone!
speaker1: oh, christ! what's wrong with you?!
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: oh, couldn't you say something? you have to slither around behind my back!
speaker2: i'm saying it now!
speaker1: so you met somebody else?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: but you, you knew that was going to happen sooner or later. i can't live like this!
speaker1: who is it?
speaker2: what's the difference?! it's just somebody i met!
speaker1: but who? where did you meet him?
speaker2: it doesn't make a difference! i have to move out!
speaker1: you are, you are my only connection to the world!
speaker2: oh, that's too much responsibility for me. it's not fair! i want a less complicated life, frederick. i want a husband, maybe even a child before it's too late.
speaker1: jesus...jesus!
speaker2: oh, i don't even know what i want.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: tch, oh, what do you get out of me, anyway? i mean... it's not sexual anymore. it's certainly not intellectual. i mean, you're so superior to me in every way that--
speaker1: please, don't patronize me!
speaker1: i should have married you years ago when you wanted to! i should have agreed.
speaker2: oh, don't you know it never would have worked? frederick turns away from lee. he begins to pace near the counter.
speaker1: i told you, one day you would leave me... for a younger man. i--

speaker1: what passion today with lee. she's a volcano. it was a totally fulfilling experience... just as i dreamed it would be. that's what it was. it was like living out a dream...a great dream. now i feel very good and cozy being here next to hannah. there's something very lovely and real about hannah. she gives me a very deep feeling of being part of something. she's a wonderful woman...and i betrayed her. she came into my empty life and changed it...and i paid her back by banging her sister in a hotel room. i'm despicable. what a cruel and shallow thing to do. i have to call her now and tell her what we did was crazy. it can't ever happen again. i'm not that kind of man...and i value hannah too much. i love my wife. now i've betrayed her. oh, 
speaker2: where're you going?
speaker1: i've, uh...gotta find, gotta get a phone number in my desk. i forgot to phone mel kaufman.
speaker2: it's so late.
speaker1: yeah, i know. i-i can't believe i forgot.
speaker1: what if he answers? i'll hang up. i'll tell her we can't communicate until i terminate my marriage. it's immoral.
speaker1: then, time will pass. i won't call, and she'll get the idea. i gotta stop this before i get in too deep. i'd rather hurt lee a little, than destroy hannah.
speaker1: it's one-thirty. she...she can't have a conversation with me...with him around. i'm getting hysterical. i'll call her first thing in the morning. i'll call her at six. frederick goes jogging at six, yeah, she'll be alone. and i'll, i'll call her and nip it in the bud.
speaker1: i've got it! i've got it! i've got it! hello? mel!
speaker3: i would have hung up if you hadn't answered and i promise i won't ever do this again, but i just had to tell you, i feel very close to you tonight. very, very close. good night.

speaker1: millions of books written on every conceivable subject by all these great minds, and, and in the end, none of 'em knows anything more about the big questions of life than i do. ss--i read socrates. you know, n-n-n--, this guy used to kn-knock off little greek boys. what the hell's he got to teach me? and, and nietzsche with his, with his theory of eternal recurrence. he said that the life we live, we're gonna live over and over again the exact same way for eternity. great. that means i, uh, i'll have to sit through the ice capades again. tch. it's not worth it. 
speaker1: and, and freud, another great pessimist. jeez, i was in analysis for years. nothing happened. my poor analyst got so frustrated. the guy finally put in a salad bar.
speaker1: oh! look at all these people jogging...trying to stave off the inevitable decay of the body. boy it's so sad what people go through with their-their stationary bike and their exercise and their... ...oh! look at this one! poor thing. my she has to tote all that fat around. maybe the poets are right. maybe love is the only answer.
speaker1: shh--of course, i was in love with hannah. that didn't work out too well. i even took her sister out. remember that?
speaker1: remember years ago when hannah and i got divorced and she fixed me up with her sister holly?
speaker2: "i'm gonna dance at clubs gonna do just what i'm told because i'm bleedin' now and i'm bleedin' now i wanna slip, slip, slip, slip, slip into the crowd i wanna slip, slip, slip, slip, slip into the crowd..." the camera moves back to holly and the even more stricken- looking mickey. they are crowded in with people. in the background, a waitress holds up a tray. a man drinks from a glass mug; people chatter indistinctly over the loud band. the club is noisy, smoky, and thick with people. holly glances at mickey once again, this time unable to contain her annoyance.
speaker3: oh, why are you making those faces?
speaker1: i can't hear you. i can't hear anything. i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm gonna lose hearing in my ear! i'm--
speaker3: listen, you are witnessing genius!
speaker1: i, i, my ears are experiencing a meltdown! i can't hear anything.
speaker3: look, can't you feel the energy? it's tangible energy! the room's alive with positive vibrations!
speaker1: holly, i'm frightened! i'm--after they sing... they're gonna take hostages! now let's--
speaker1: don't, no, please. will you-- no, don't...
speaker3: you want some?
speaker2: "i want to dress like you say, i'll buy all the clothes i want to like you yeah, i'm sure it shows because i'm..."
speaker1: i don't. no. no.
speaker3: come on, mickey. come on.
speaker1: but, no, you've been doing that all night! you're gonna...you're gonna burn a hole in your... you're gonna develop a third nostril! really, don't, please.
speaker1: can we, can we go?
speaker3: no!
speaker1: my--uh...
speaker3: i love songs about extraterrestrial life, don't you?
speaker1: not when they're sung by extraterrestrials.
speaker3: oh, well, i cannot communicate with you! i, you know, i never realized you were such a tightass.
speaker1: i can't understand you. your sisters, both sisters have such good taste in music. i don't know where you went, went wrong.
speaker3: do you mind? i'm-i'm my own person.
speaker1: can i take you someplace to hear something nice?
speaker3: eh, mickey, it's getting late.
speaker1: now come on, you're be--, 'cause you're being angry at me.
speaker3: i'm not angry! you know, you, well, you don't believe in esp, you don't like rock music, you won't get high... it's like i'm dating cardinal cooke!

speaker1: "why am i 
speaker1: "i'm in love again hear my heart strings strummin' i'm in love again and the hymn they're hummin' is those cuddle-up huddle-up blues i'm in love again and i can't rise above it..." ...as holly lights her cigarette, dropping her matchbook on the floor. she bends down to pick it up, then starts to fidget in her chair. she gulps her wine; she sniffs. mickey tries to watch the offscreen bobby short; he crosses his arms across his chest.
speaker1: "i'm in love again and i love, love, love it." ...then abruptly cuts to:

speaker1: thanks for a swell time. 
speaker2: well, if you didn't like it, you didn't like it, but you didn't have to talk while the guy was singing.
speaker1: i was so bored!
speaker2: yeah, that's tough! you don't deserve cole porter. you should stay with those groups that look like they're gonna stab their mother!
speaker1: at least i'm open to new concepts!
speaker2: and you don't have to snort cocaine at the table all the time! what do you, what do you do? carry a kilo around in your purse?
speaker1: this crowd wouldn't know the difference! they're embalmed!
speaker2: jesus... i'm glad hannah got us together. you know, she's got a great instinct for people. really.
speaker1: oh, look, i'm sorry it didn't work out.
speaker2: yeah. me, too.
speaker1: you know, it's probably my fault.
speaker2: right. yeah. i had a...
speaker1: 
speaker2: ...i had a great time tonight, really. it was like the nuremberg trials.
speaker2: yeah, it was quite an evening. holly with her cocaine... she should have been wearing a gold shovel around her neck. tch, she was polymorphously insensitive, i think. too bad, too... 'cause, you know, i always had a little crush on her.

speaker1: oh, you just have to read the instructions. i mean, you just set one of these things and you can take, you can take pictures underwater. 
speaker2: can i try it?
speaker1: sure! yeah. when we get to the country, we'll try it in the lake.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: okay?
speaker3: can i go?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: yeah! okay.
speaker1: are you in a bad mood?
speaker4: i don't know. um...i'm just antsy.
speaker1: yes. i know. the last few weeks, you haven't been yourself. and tonight at, tonight at dinner, you, you were kind of curt with me.
speaker4: was i?
speaker1: yes, you were. a-and when i, when i brought up the idea of having a baby, you just, you jumped down my throat.
speaker4: well, i-i don't think it's a very good idea.
speaker1: why not?
speaker4: because it's the last thing in the world we need right now.
speaker1: why do you say that? is there something wrong?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker1: well, tell me. should i be worried?
speaker4: but, you got four children!
speaker1: i want one with you.
speaker4: well...i-i think we should wait till things settle.
speaker1: but what do, what do you-- what's that mean? w-w-we've been, we've been married for four years.
speaker4: you know, y-you have some very set plans on how your life should be structured. a-a house, uh, kids, certain schools, a h--, a home in connecticut. i-it's all very...preconceived.
speaker1: yeah, but i...uh--i thought you needed that. when-when-when we met, you said your life was chaos.
speaker4: i-i-i know, but there's got to be some give and take.
speaker4: oh, let's not--i, i don't know what the i'm talking about.
speaker1: are you angry with me?
speaker4: no!
speaker1: do you feel, um...are you disenchanted with our marriage?
speaker4: i didn't say that.
speaker1: are you in love with someone else?
speaker4: my wha-what is this? the gestapo? no. he sits down again, in a chair next to hannah; the ketchup bottle sits in front of him.
speaker1: well, what? what, wh-what are you not telling me?
speaker4: what kind of interrogation... su- supposing i said yes? i-i-i am disenchanted. i am in love with someone else.
speaker1: are you?
speaker4: no! but you keep asking these, these awful questions. my it's-it's like you want me to say yes!
speaker1: what, you, of c-- what are you talking about? of course not. i'd be destroyed! the camera moves in on elliot's anguished face. he talks over the screen.
speaker4: for chrissakes, stop torturing her. tell her you want out and get it over with. you're in love with her sister. you didn't do it on purpose. be honest. it's always the best way.
speaker1: look, can i help you? if you're suffering over something, will you share it with me?
speaker4: hannah, you know how much i love you. i ought to have my head examined. i don't deserve you.

speaker1: you know, i just want to look so good, but i don't want to seem, you know, like i'm overdressed. you know what i'm saying? 
speaker2: oh, no, not at all.
speaker1: well, how about this?
speaker2: well, i, i really like that. i think that's a pretty color on you.
speaker1: oh, yeah.
speaker1: did you ever think you'd be helping me buy something to wear to the opera?
speaker2: nuh-uh...but i think it's great. i can't wait to meet him.
speaker1: he's married...
speaker2: oh-oh.
speaker1: sometimes she's terrific...
speaker2: oooo.
speaker1: ...and then she just breaks down. and he has this sweet daughter...and when she goes to college next year, he's going to split permanently. i mean...
speaker2: oh?
speaker1: ...he's really paid his dues, but...then she helped put him through architecture school, you know, so...
speaker2: you found all this, all this out on one date?
speaker1: well, i think he was dying to open up. it's so sad. now...what should i wear to my audition?
speaker1: i've got a singing audition for a broadway musical. of course, i'll never get it.
speaker2: singing?
speaker1: yeah, can you believe it?
speaker2: really?
speaker1: well, i mean, why not? you know, wh-what have i got to lose? uh...
speaker2: well, no...i-i know, i just, uh... no, i-i, eh, you know, i, i didn't, i didn't know you sung.
speaker1: well, you think everybody in m- musicals sings so well?
speaker2: no! no, i, eh, it's just that they sing.
speaker1: well...you know, uh...i sing a little, i mean...
speaker2: ohh!
speaker1: you know.
speaker2: i know, no-- i know.
speaker1: i mean, y-you know, don't say it that way, you know, because my confidence is not my strong point,

speaker1: uh, you know, i think i can fake my way through a song. 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: easily.
speaker1: w-why? you don't think it's realistic?
speaker2: no, i didn't, i, that's no. no, i- i-i, no, i-i just... hate to see you put yourself in a position where, where you get hurt, you know. you know, you know how you take...
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: ...every, eh, single rejection as- as-as a...a confirmation that you have no talent, or something?
speaker1: yeah. well, maybe i'll get it.
speaker2: i hope.
speaker1: boy, you really know how to cut me down.
speaker2: what? you don't, don't be so sensitive. can't i say anything?
speaker1: tch, well, i sing! for chrissake, hannah, you heard me sing!
speaker2: okay! okay. i-- what happened? you know, we were having a really nice time, a-and suddenly, everything went to bad feeling.
speaker1: nobody but you can do that to me.
speaker1: you're right. i'm happy. why must i let my insecurities spoil everything?

speaker1: "this year's fancies are passing fancies..." 
speaker1: "but sighing sighs holding hands this my heart understands i'm old-fashioned and i don't mind it it's how i want to be as long as you agree to stay old-fashioned with me."
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: it was very nice.
speaker4: terrific.
speaker5: april knox?
speaker6: "someday when i'm awfully low when the world is cold i will get a glow just thinking of you and the way you look tonight..."

speaker1: i'm telling you, you sounded great. 
speaker2: oh, i'm just glad we have a catering job this week. i'm real low on money.
speaker1: yeah, we have mr. morris levine's eightieth birthday party on riverside drive...or riverside memorial chapel, depending on his health.
speaker2: oh, uh, listen, david called me up.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: uh, david called me last night, and he wants to take me to the opera. i didn't know what to say.
speaker1: you're joking.
speaker2: no, he called late last night.
speaker1: i, uh, i'm very surprised.
speaker2: he wants to take me to see rigoletto.
speaker1: and you, you-you're going?
speaker2: well, i-i-i didn't know what to say. first i said no, but then, he pressed it. he said, uh, he'd taken you once and he really wanted to invite me.
speaker1: but i'm seeing him.
speaker2: i know. i said that, but... he said it was something he really felt like doing.
speaker1: gee, um... i...i don't know what to say.
speaker2: look, it's just an evening at the opera. did i, i-i do wrong in accepting?
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: well, uh, because, y-you know, i gotta have something to believe in, otherwise life is just meaningless.
speaker4: i understand. but why did you make the decision to choose the catholic faith?
speaker3: tch. well, y-you know...first of all, because it's a very beautiful religion. it's very well structured. now i'm talking now, incidentally, about the-the, uh, against-school- prayer, pro-abortion, anti-nuclear wing.
speaker3: no. a-a-and i-i want to. you know, i'm-i'm willing to do anything. i'll, you know, i'll dye easter eggs if it works. i-i need some evidence. i gotta have some proof. uh, you know, i- i-if i can't believe in then i don't think life is worth living.
speaker4: it means making a very big leap.
speaker5: why? oh, my
speaker3: i don't understand. i thought that you would be happy.
speaker6: how can we be happy?
speaker3: well, because i never thought of in my life. now i'm giving it serious thought.
speaker6: but catholicism? why not your own people?
speaker3: because i got off to a wrong foot with my own thing, you know. b-b- b-but i need a dramatic change in my life.
speaker6: you're gonna believe in christ?
speaker3: i know it sounds funny, but i'm gonna try.
speaker6: but why? we raised you as a jew.
speaker6: but why christ? why, for instance, shouldn't you become a buddhist?
speaker3: a bud--? that's totally alien to me. look, you're getting on in years, right? aren't you afraid of dying?
speaker6: why should i be afraid?
speaker3: oh! 'cause you won't exist!
speaker6: so?
speaker6: who thinks about such nonsense? now i'm alive. when i'm dead, i'll be dead.
speaker3: i don't understand. aren't you frightened?
speaker6: of what? i'll be unconscious.
speaker3: yeah, i know. but never to exist again!
speaker6: how do you know?
speaker3: well, it certainly doesn't look promising.
speaker6: who knows what'll be?
speaker6: i'll either be unconscious or i won't. if not, i'll deal with it then. i'm not gonna worry now about what's gonna be when i'm unconscious.
speaker3: mom, come out!
speaker5: of course there's a you
speaker3: but if there's a then wh-why is there so much evil in the world? what-- just on a simplistic level.
speaker5: tell him, max.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hi. where's holly?
speaker1: hi. she's auditioning for a television commercial. she said she's gonna be a little late.
speaker2: oh, yeah? how's she doing?
speaker1: oh, you know holly. when she's depressed, she's manic. i think it was a good idea that we invited her to lunch.
speaker2: i hope you tell her it was your idea...
speaker1: why?
speaker2: ...'cause every time i try to be helpful, you know, sh-she gets so defensive.
speaker1: oh, hannah, she's-she's just embarrassed in front of you, that's all.
speaker2: so how are you?
speaker1: oh, me, i'm okay.
speaker2: do you miss frederick?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i can't believe elliot and i can't think of someone nice for you to go out with, you know--
speaker1: how are you?
speaker2: i'm okay.
speaker1: you know, how's everything? you doing okay? how's frederick? i mean, elliot.
speaker2: y-yeah.
speaker2: oh, he's fine. he's-he's, i guess he's fine. i don't know. he's been kinda moody lately, the last few months.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yeah. i-i don't know what's wrong with him. he's just...kind of distant and difficult.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: i've been trying to talk to him about it. he says everything's fine, but i don't know. automatically, you know, i leap to the worst conclusions.
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: i mean, i don't know, he's seeing someone else or something, but...
speaker1: oh, no! i mean, everyone thinks things like that.
speaker2: hey, hi!
speaker3: well, i just came from an audition...
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: ...which i did not get.
speaker2: awwww...
speaker3: so what's new?
speaker2: boy--
speaker3: they said i was too offbeat looking, whatever the that means.
speaker2: oh, what do they know? holly gives her coat to the coatcheck person.
speaker3: thanks. but guess who was there auditioning?
speaker1: april?
speaker2: oh, gosh.
speaker3: you got it.
speaker3: i was very polite. i maintained my poise. i said hello. the sisters walk to their seats, at a round table in the middle of the room; the hostess puts down their menus.
speaker1: hmm. i never trusted april, you know. she has eyes in the back of her head.
speaker3: yeah, well, she and an architect are now a very definite item, which i still cannot believe.
speaker1: hmm.
speaker2: oh,
speaker3: yeah, although it's put an end to the stanislavski catering company. which is why i have to speak to you. and... you're gonna get impatient, but...i have to borrow some more money.
speaker2: well, that...th-that's fine.
speaker3: but what i decided to do is some writing. yeah, i think i've had it with acting. you know, these meaningless auditions at cattle calls. and i can't handle another rejection. now let's face it here. i gotta, you know, latch on to something in my life. you know--something with a future. i'm not sixteen anymore. it's just...crazy! i've got...an idea for a story. more than one. and i just need a few months, you know, or, uh, a year even.
speaker3: i've picked up a lot about dramatic structure from doing my scenes in acting class.
speaker2: well, that-that's good. it just, uh...it just seems to me that-that six months or a year, if-if you spent it more productively...
speaker3: well-well, like what?
speaker2: well, i don't know. we'd uh, uh, um... didn't mom mention there was something...something at the museum of broadcasting?
speaker3: yeah, that's clerical.
speaker2: no. she, didn't she say it was, um...she said it was in the publicity department. that-that can lead to other things.
speaker3: boy, i knew you'd be discouraging.
speaker2: i'm not! i'm not! i'm trying to be helpful. a person doesn't just say one day, "okay, now-now i'm finished as an actress. now i'm a writer." i mean--
speaker3: yeah, you mean not at my age.
speaker1: oh, please! we all came to have lunch, didn't we?
speaker3: yeah, okay, right. forget it. what's to eat?
speaker1: boy...holly...holly.
speaker3: i just want a salad. you really think i'm a loser, don't you?
speaker2: what do--? you're being ridiculous.
speaker1: you are, holly. stop it.
speaker3: you treat me like a loser.
speaker2: how?
speaker3: you never have any faith in my plans. you always undercut my enthusiasm.
speaker2: not so! no. i think i've been very supportive. i've...i try to give you honest, constructive advice.
speaker3: hmm!
speaker2: i'm-i'm always happy to help you financially. i think i've gone out of my way to-to introduce you to interesting single men. there's nothing i would--
speaker3: uh, losers! all losers!
speaker2: you're too demanding.
speaker2: you're crazy! that's not true.
speaker3: hey, hannah, i know i'm mediocre.
speaker1: oh, will you stop attacking hannah?!
speaker2: oh, now--
speaker1: she's going through a really rough time right now.
speaker3: why are you so upset?
speaker1: you know, you've been picking on her ever since she came in here. now just leave her alone for a while! i'm just suffocating.
speaker3: what's the matter with you, lee? why are you so sensitive all of a sudden?
speaker2: look. listen. listen. you want to write? write.
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker2: write! let's just not talk about it anymore.
speaker3: good.
speaker2: take...take a year. take six months. whatever you want. who knows? maybe you'll, maybe you'll be sitting with a good play.
speaker2: what's the matter? what's the matter with you? you look pale. you okay?
speaker1: i'm-i'm okay. yeah, i-i-i, you know, i...i'm just, um, i got dizzy all of a sudden. i'm-i'm...i have a headache.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i think we need to eat.

speaker1: meanwhile...lee has no direction. she's taking courses at columbia...but just randomly. 
speaker1: i try not to call her, but then she calls me and then...i call and...we try to resist meeting, but...once in a while we meet. sometimes we argue because i can't break up my marriage. sometimes we wind up making love and...we both feel terrible.
speaker1: but it's my fault.
speaker1: for all my education, accomplishments, and so-called wisdom...i can't fathom my own heart.

speaker1: what makes you interested in becoming a hare krishna? 
speaker2: well, i'm not saying that i want to join or anything, but...but i know you guys believe in reincarnation, you know, so it interests me.
speaker1: yeah, well, what's your religion?
speaker2: well, i was born jewish, you know, but, uh, but last winter i tried to become a catholic and...it didn't work for me. i-i studied and i tried and i gave it everything, but, you know, catholicism for me was die now, pay later, you know. and i just couldn't get with it.

speaker1: you're afraid of dying? 
speaker2: well...yeah, naturally. aren't you? i-- l-let me ask you, reincarnation, does that mean my soul would pass to another human being, or would i come back as a moose or an aardvark or something?
speaker1: take our literature...
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: ...read it over, and think about it.
speaker2: well, okay. thank you very much.
speaker1: you're welcome. hare krishna.
speaker2: who are you kidding? you're gonna be a krishna? you're gonna shave your head and put on robes and dance around at airports? you'll look like jerry lewis. oh, i'm so depressed.
speaker3: the nights are really getting cooler. summer went so quickly. soon it'll be fall. my literature professor really likes me. it was fun being out with him last night. funny. i feel like i'm betraying elliot...but that's ridiculous. why shouldn't i see doug? elliot's not free. just go one step at a time. let's see what the next few months bring.
speaker4: hannah? hi. listen, um, you'll be happy to know that your money has not gone completely to waste... no, i have an actual first rough draft of something i wrote... yeah. yeah. yeah, well, i showed it to lee, and she gave me some good pointers. and, um, listen, i'm pretty near where you live. i wonder if i could just drop it off...and, you know, when you have time, some time, read it, an-and we'll talk when i come over at thanksgiving. okay? all right. okay. oh, wait, wait. listen. listen. i think lee met an interesting guy at columbia... yeah. yeah, well, he sounds really nice... yeah. okay. all right. well, we'll talk at thanksgiving. bye-bye.

speaker1: now, here...here's a song that norma sang on that trip we made up to the show in buffalo. and, oh, was she beautiful that night! the guests laugh appreciatively. a woman comes over to evan and hands him some wine. 
speaker2: come on.
speaker1: thank you, honey. oh, yes, you were, dear. don't you remember that night? she was so beautiful...she was so beautiful that when men saw her walking along the streets, they'd drive their cars right up on the sidewalk.
speaker1: isn't that right, honey, eh?
speaker2: a slight exaggeration.
speaker1: i know.
speaker3: you've been very cold to me tonight.
speaker4: no.
speaker3: is something wrong?
speaker4: oh, not here. there are too many people around.

speaker1: hey, hannah? you know, i think lee is really serious about her new boyfriend. yeah, eh, from what i understand he sounds really nice. 
speaker1: i'm so happy for her. i think she's in love.
speaker1: hey, what's the matter?
speaker2: i'm real upset about what you wrote.
speaker1: my script?
speaker2: it's obviously based on elliot and me.
speaker1: oh, so loosely.
speaker2: no, not "oh, so loosely"! real specifically! is that how you see us?
speaker1: well--
speaker2: can i, can i not accept gestures and feelings from people? do i, do i put people off?
speaker1: well, it's a made-up story. she dries her hands as hannah, her arms laden with vegetables, strides over to her sister.
speaker2: no, it's real exact! the-the situations, the dialogue, everything. it's-it's full of intimate details between elliot and me! which i don't, i don't see how you could even possibly know about. a conversation we once had about adoption? hannah storms out a nearby door as holly turns away from the sink.
speaker1: well, lee mentioned that to me, so obviously you discussed it with her. you... i just took the essence and i blew it up into drama.
speaker2: i don't see how lee could know about these things. i don't! i don't tell her everything.
speaker1: wow, i guess i hit a nerve.
speaker2: you make it sound like, you know, i have no needs or something. you think i'm too self-sufficient?
speaker1: now, hannah, that's not what i meant, you know. uh, yeah, everybody relies on you for so much. "you're so giving. it's not a criticism. we love you.
speaker2: you're grateful, but you resent me.
speaker1: y-you mentioned to me yourself that you and elliot were having some problems.
speaker2: yeah, we're having some problems, but problems that are my business...which i don't see how you could know about in such detail. how does lee know about these things? how? they're private! hannah picks up a large bowl and carries it, as well as her armload of spices, into the pantry area.
speaker1: well, why don't you share them with us?
speaker2: i don't...i don't want to bother everyone.
speaker1: that's the point. i'd like to be bothered.
speaker2: i don't see how you could know about these things unless elliot's been talking to you.
speaker3: it's over, elliot. i don't know how to make it any clearer. it's over. i can't see you anymore.
speaker4: uh... i-i-i know. i deserve this.
speaker3: look, i'm just as much at fault.
speaker4: if-if-if you can believe i have such feelings for you!
speaker3: i've got to be honest with you. i met someone else. i've met someone else. i...i told you i wasn't going to wait forever.
speaker4: but it hasn't been forever.
speaker3: it's been nearly a year since our first time and you're still married to my sister, which...i now realize is fine because you're probably much more in love with her than you know.
speaker4: yeah, but we-we made so many plans.
speaker3: yeah. uh, well, sure we did. an- an-and in a way you led me on, because i truly believed you were unhappy with hannah. otherwise, i would never have let myself be drawn in. i was very weak. so were you. now i've met someone else.
speaker3: dinner soon?
speaker5: about fifteen minutes.
speaker3: uh-huh. good.
speaker4: and you're in love overnight?
speaker3: i care a great deal about him, yes.
speaker4: lee...
speaker6: sweetheart, i loved your script. i thought it was so clever.
speaker1: well, you're my mother. not everybody's gonna be such a
speaker6: i particularly liked the character of the mother. just a boozy old flirt with a filthy mouth.
speaker6: i'm so proud!
speaker1: oh, mom, thanks.
speaker7: now here's a toast to thanksgiving, all right?
speaker7: are we supposed to have beer? yeeeah!
speaker7: let me at it! how's that, fletcher?
speaker7: doll? to thanksgiving. here's a little toast, doll. come on. bottoms up.
speaker2: have you been talking to holly or lee about us? about our-our personal life?
speaker4: me? of course not.
speaker2: there's things holly wrote about in her script about us that are so...personal they could only have come from you.
speaker2: i'm not accusing. i'm asking. do you...do you find me too...too giving? too-too-too competent? too-too, i don't know, disgustingly perfect or something?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: well, what is it then? what? eh, what's come between us? how have i alienated you?
speaker4: hannah, my head is throbbing.
speaker2: you never want to talk about it. i-- every time i bring it up, you- you change the subject. what is it? do you-- we're communicating less and less. you sleep with me less and less.
speaker4: hannah, i am very mixed up! now please!
speaker2: do you talk to holly or lee behind my back? do you? you must. they- they seem to know so much about us.
speaker4: well, maybe i've asked advice once or twice or-or made a joke.
speaker2: well, what do you do? do-do-do you talk to holly, or lee, or what? do you, do you, do you phone them?
speaker4: leave me alone, can you?!
speaker4: i've told you. i need someone i can matter to.
speaker2: you matter to me. completely.
speaker4: it's hard to be around someone who gives so much and-and needs so little in return!
speaker2: but, look...i-i have enormous needs.
speaker4: well, i can't see them, and neither can lee or holly!

speaker1: it's so pitch-black tonight. i feel lost. 
speaker2: you're not lost.
speaker2: i love you so much.
speaker3: mmm, i don't know if you remember me, but we had the worst night of my life together.
speaker4: i remember you.
speaker3: yes, you do recall, right?
speaker4: i recall you.
speaker3: i was walking past and i saw you in here...
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: ...and i thought i'd come in and...and we could replay, uh, the whole, uh...
speaker4: we didn't hit it off.
speaker3: oh, that's putting it mildly. we did everything but exchange gunshots.
speaker4: how are you?
speaker3: good. how are you?
speaker4: i'm fine.
speaker3: you look wonderful.
speaker4: oh, no.
speaker3: yeah, really. you do. you do.
speaker4: yeah?
speaker3: it was a terrible evening.
speaker4: yeah, it was.
speaker3: remember slamming the cab door in my face and.. you know, it came very dangerously close to emasculating my nose in a...
speaker4: i'd never do that.
speaker3: ...in a really horrible way.
speaker4: oh, well, that was a long time ago.
speaker3: you look wonderful. you do. what happened to you?
speaker4: people change...you know.
speaker3: well, i hope you've changed.
speaker4: yeah, i hope you have, too.
speaker3: i hope so for your sake, because, uh, your personality left something to be desired...
speaker4: yeah, and for yours. i'm sure you've changed.
speaker3: ...namely a personality.
speaker3: so how are you?
speaker4: i'm okay.
speaker3: you didn't answer my question.
speaker4: oh, nothing much. you know...
speaker3: well...
speaker4: ...just some stuff. a little of this, a little of that, that's all.
speaker3: yeah? is that an embarrassing question? should i have not asked it?
speaker4: probably not.
speaker3: are you, are you out of work or something?
speaker4: no, well...i've been trying to write.
speaker3: have you?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: well, that's interesting. wh-what kind of stuff?
speaker4: oh...well, you-you're not interested in this.
speaker3: no, you can tell me.
speaker4: come on.
speaker3: no, i am. i am.
speaker4: oh, no, millions of people come up to you and say, "hey, i have something i just wrote," right?
speaker3: nobody ever said it.
speaker4: really?
speaker3: this is it. yeah. this is really--
speaker4: well, wo-would you be willing to-to read it? something...that i wrote?
speaker3: well, yes, i would if, uh, if it would mean anything to you. i don't know why it would.
speaker4: no, the reason i ask is--
speaker3: you've always hated my taste in the past.
speaker4: no, i haven't.
speaker3: you have.
speaker4: i haven't. no, the reason why i ask is i think it might make a great, uh, television script, and, you know, you're so active in television, so--
speaker3: i'm not anymore. i haven't, i haven't been in television for a year.
speaker4: you're kidding me.
speaker3: i may, i may have to get back into it, 'cause my accountant says that i'm running out of dollars. but...but, um, no, i haven't, i just sort of dropped out for a year...
speaker4: oh. oh.
speaker3: ...which is a long, dull story and i won't get into it. but--
speaker4: you're okay, though, huh?
speaker3: i'm-- yes. yes, i'm fine. i'm fine. how are you?
speaker4: oh, i'm fine.
speaker3: what...what about your script? so what's it about?
speaker4: well, i'd love it if you'd read it, actually, 'cause i really would value your opinion.
speaker3: you have to remember, we-we-we didn't agree on one thing.
speaker4: but you have to remember while you're reading and you're cursing my name, you know, that this is my first script. well, it's not my first script.
speaker3: hmm.
speaker4: actually, my first script was about hannah and her husband, but, uh...
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: ...hannah read it, she got really angry, and... you know, then i felt badly, so i-- she picks up a record.
speaker3: oh, well, i can imagine what you wrote.
speaker4: oh, no! it wasn't anything bad. but she just... you know. i don't know.
speaker3: really?
speaker4: so, uh...i threw it out, but i have this other one.
speaker3: well, you know, i-i-i...you know, if you want me to, i'll read it.
speaker4: oh, gosh, i don't know. well, could i come over tomorrow and read it to you?
speaker3: you must be joking. i've been doing all my own reading since i was forty...you know.
speaker4: hmm. i think it's lucky i ran into you. maybe.
speaker3: well, what about me?
speaker4: oh, well.
speaker3: i should have kept going. i-i have a sneaking feeling, a nagging sensation i should've kept walking and...
speaker3: ...and not begun this conversation.

speaker1: "we all go through life playing the hand we're dealt. craig: and what hand were you dealt? "emily: i'm two high pair, maybe even aces up. the problem is, you've got three deuces." holly closes the script and looks up at mickey. 
speaker1: that's the end.
speaker1: no, you can tell me straight. it's okay. just, you know, tell me what you think.
speaker2: it's great. i swea-- i'm-- i'm, tch, i'm speechless. i was...i was not in the mood to listen to this thing now. i don't know what to say. i'm moved and i laughed and i-- uh, i, you know, i was on the edge of my seat. i just think it's wonderful! i'm, i'm totally...stunned. this is not an insult. i'm amazed that you can... it was-- i just thought it was great.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: yes! i was abso-- and...w- what...made you think of that climax scene where the, where the... architect is walking home with his actress girlfriend and-and the ex- wife who's schizophrenic jumps out of the bushes and stabs him to death?
speaker1: oh, it just came to me one day.
speaker2: well, it was just fabulous! i'm, i, you know...
speaker1: oh, gosh, you really think i can write?
speaker2: i thought it was wonder-- there's maybe one or two things in there that i would do differently myself, but...
speaker1: right.
speaker2: ...but who cares? it was just-- it was fabulous.
speaker1: oh!
speaker2: fabulous, i mean it! i'm so impressed.
speaker1: oh,
speaker2: i am. you-you made my day.
speaker1: oh, wow!
speaker2: it was just great. uh, i was all set...i was set to be bored stiff.
speaker1: uh, gee. would you like to have lunch? uh, uh...
speaker2: i-i would love to talk to you about, uh, that script. i-i, you know, i think maybe that we could do something with it.
speaker1: okay, and listen, i would like to hear what made you suddenly decide to drop out of life.
speaker2: oh, who cares?
speaker1: gosh, you really went through a crisis, you know that? h-how did you get over it? i mean, when i ran into you, you seemed, you seemed just perfectly fine. well, you seem fine now.
speaker2: well... i'll tell you. one day about a month ago...
speaker2: ...i really hit bottom. you know, i just felt that in a godless universe, i didn't want to go on living. now i happen to own this rifle...
speaker2: ...which i loaded, believe it or not, and pressed it to my forehead. and i remember thinking, at the time, i'm gonna kill myself. then i thought...what if i'm wrong? what if there is a god? i mean, after all, nobody really knows that.
speaker2: but then i thought, no. you know, maybe is not good enough. i want certainty or nothing. and i remember very clearly the clock was ticking, and i was sitting there frozen, with the gun to my head, debating whether to shoot.
speaker2: all of a sudden, the gun went off.
speaker2: i had been so tense, my finger had squeezed the trigger inadvertently...
speaker3: what's happening? wh-wh-what's going on?
speaker2: ...but i was perspiring so much, the gun had slid off my forehead and missed me.
speaker4: i don't know. i heard a gun. is everything all right?
speaker2: and suddenly, neighbors were, were, pounding on the door, and-and i don't know, the whole scene was just pandemonium. and, uh, you know, and i-i-i-i-i ran to the door.
speaker2: i-i-i-i didn't know what to say. you know, i was, i was embarrassed and confused, and my-my-my mind was r-r-racing a mile a minute...
speaker2: ...and i-i jus knew one thing.
speaker2: i...i-i-i-i had to get out of that house. i had to just get out in the fresh air and-and clear my head. and i remember very clearly. i walked the streets. i walked and i walked. i-i didn't know what was going through my mind. it all seemed so violent and un-unreal to me. and i wandered...
speaker2: ...for a long time on the upper west side, you know, an-and it must have been hours! you know, my, my feet hurt. my head was, was pounding, and, and i had to sit down. i went into a movie house. i-i didn't know what was playing or anything.
speaker2: i just, i just needed a moment to gather my thoughts and, and be logical, and, and put the world back into rational perspective.
speaker2: and i went upstairs to the balcony, and i sat down and, you know, the movie was a-a-a film that i'd seen many times in my life since i was a kid, an-and i always u-uh, loved it. and, you know, i'm, i'm watching these people up on the screen, and i started getting hooked o-on the film, you know?
speaker2: ...and i started to feel how can you even think of killing yourself? i mean, isn't it so stupid? i mean, l-look at all the people up there on the screen. you know, they're real funny, and, and what if the worst is true?
speaker2: what if there's no and you only go around once and that's it? well, you know, don't you want to be part of the experience? you know, what the hell, it-i-it's not all a drag. and i'm thinking to myself, geez, i should stop ruining my life...
speaker2: ...searching for answers i'm never gonna get, and just enjoy it while it lasts. and...you know...
speaker2: ...after, who knows? i mean, you know, maybe there is something. nobody really knows. i know, i know "maybe" is a very slim reed to hang your whole life on, but that's the best we have. and...then, i started to sit back, and i actually began to enjoy myself.
speaker5: "oh, freedonia
speaker1: um...look, there's something i've, uh, that's been bothering me for a long time, and i just thought i'd just tell you what it was and just sort of clear the deck here, and that's this.
speaker2: oh, yeah? what?
speaker1: that i've always regretted the way i behaved that evening we went out, and, uh...i've, i just thought i'd tell you that because i really made a fool out of myself.
speaker2: oh, don't be silly! no! don't be ridiculous.
speaker1: it's all right.
speaker2: i was the, i was... you know, it was my fault. i-- holly laughs.
speaker2: so, so you want to go out to dinner again? i mean, is that, is that... have, you have any interest in that, or...
speaker1: sure. sure, uh, yes.
speaker2: do you? i mean, are you, are you, are you, are you free this evening?
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: i want ice! who's got some-- oh, there it is. 
speaker2: it's on the table, dad.
speaker1: hey, where's holly? she's late.
speaker3: hey, hannah, did you read that last thing holly wrote? it was great.
speaker2: i know, she...she really writes good dialogue.
speaker3: yeah. i'll get some ice.
speaker4: hannah, can i tell everybody you're going to play desdemona?
speaker2: oh, mom, it's only television.
speaker4: yes, but it's public television. and to me, shakespeare doesn't get any greater than othello. you with some big black stud! i love it!
speaker2: oh, mom!
speaker1: oh, honey!
speaker5: oh, lee, you are something.
speaker5: you look very beautiful. marriage agrees with you. everything that happened between us seems more and more hazy.
speaker5: i acted like such a fool. i don't know what came over me. that complete conviction that i couldn't live without you.
speaker5: what did i put us both through? and hannah...
speaker6: hi! how are you! happy thanksgiving!
speaker7: hi!
speaker6: i didn't miss dinner, did i?
speaker8: no!
speaker6: huh? hi, marge.
speaker9: you look lovely.
speaker10: hello, darling.
speaker6: happy thanksgiving.
speaker10: good to see you. same to you.
speaker6: hello.
speaker6: it's beautiful.
speaker11: now don't get nervous. it's just your husband.
speaker6: hi.
speaker11: hi. how you doin'?
speaker6: okay.
speaker11: when'd you get here?
speaker6: just a few minutes ago.
speaker11: oh. you look so beautiful.
speaker6: thanks.
speaker11: you know, i was talking with your father before...and i was telling him that it's ironic. i-i used to always have thanksgiving with hannah...and i never thought that i could love anybody else. and here it is, years later and i'm married to you and completely in love with you. the heart is a very, very resilient little muscle. it really is. i... it'd made a great story, i think. a guy marries one sister... doesn't work out... many years later... he winds up married to the other sister. it's, you know, it's a...
speaker6: tch.
speaker11: i don't know how you're gonna top that.
speaker6: mickey?
speaker11: mmm, what?
speaker6: i'm pregnant.

