speaker1: out for a little stroll, paulie? 
speaker2: let go...
speaker1: what's with this poncho you got on, huh? this isn't yours.
speaker2: i got it off the wall there.
speaker1: but not for you, paulie, that's the thing. those are for the staff.
speaker2: i just borrowed it. don't see what harm it does.
speaker1: it's not about harm, it's about rules. you probably don't think an old fart like you has to mind rules anymore, but that's just not true.
speaker2: i'm sorry if i broke the rules.
speaker1: you got no business up in those woods anyway, especially in the rain. what if you fall and bust a hip, huh? who you think's gonna have to hoss your sorry old bacon back down here? me, that's who.
speaker2: you're hurting me!
speaker1: what do you do up there, anyway? you're too old to go jerk off, so what do you do?
speaker2: nothing. i just walk, that's all, i like to walk!
speaker1: come on. open up. let poppa see.
speaker3: paul?
speaker3: i saw you coming back, thought you'd like some tea. are you coming in?
speaker2: mr. dolan and i were...chatting. about the weather. i think we're through now.
speaker1: paulie? you tell anyone i squeezed your po' ol' hand, i'll tell 'em you're having senile delusions. who you think they'll believe?

speaker1: why we always watch this crap? 
speaker2: it's interesting.
speaker1: interesting? bunch'a inbred trailer trash, all they ever talk about is fucking...
speaker3: we should report him.
speaker4: that might just provoke him all the more, make things worse for everybody.
speaker3: it's not everybody he has it in for, paul. it's you. what did you do to provoke him in the first place? nothing. he's just an abusive bully, and should be made to stop.
speaker4: ellie, please... pete is at the tv, switching channels while:
speaker5: ...no, the movie classic channel is further down...past the home shopping...keep going...
speaker6: oh! this is wonderful... paul
speaker7: heaven, i'm in heaven...and my heart beat so that i can hardly speak...
speaker3: paul? what is it?
speaker3: paul...my
speaker8: what is it? what's wrong?
speaker4: it's okay...i'll be okay...
speaker9: s'matter, paulie? why the boo-hoo- hoo? something nasty happen?
speaker3: mr. edgecomb will be perfectly fine without your help, thank you.

speaker1: i guess sometimes the past just catches up with you, whether you want it to or not. it's silly. 
speaker2: was it the film? it was, wasn't it?
speaker1: i haven't spoken of these things in a long time, ellie. over sixty years.
speaker2: paul. i'm your friend.
speaker1: yes. yes you are.
speaker1: i ever tell you i was a prison guard during the depression?
speaker2: you've mentioned it.
speaker1: did i mention i was in charge of death row? that i supervised all the executions?
speaker1: they usually call death row the last mile, but we called ours the green mile, because the floor was the color of faded limes. we had the electric chair then. old sparky, we called it. i've lived a lot of years, ellie, but 1935 takes the prize. that was the year i had the worst urinary infection of my life. that was also the year of john coffey, and the two dead girls...
speaker3: in blackness, a title card appears: "the two dead girls"

speaker1: paul? prisoner. 
speaker2: christ. gimme a minute.
speaker1: you all right in there?
speaker2: for a man razor blades.
speaker1: you should'a took the day off, gone to see the doctor.
speaker2: with a new arrival? you know better. besides, it's not as bad as it was. i think it's clearing up.
speaker3: new boy coming in, boss?
speaker2: never you mind, del, you just keep your nose quietly on your business.
speaker1: damn, they're riding on the axle. what'd they do, bust the springs?
speaker1: paul? you might wanna reconsider getting in the cell with this guy?
speaker2: why's that?
speaker1: he's enormous.
speaker2: can't be bigger than you.
speaker4: dead man walking! dead man walking here! inside the cellblock
speaker2: jeezus, pleeze-us, what the hell's he yelling about?
speaker4: dead man walking!
speaker4: dead man walking! dead man--
speaker2: percy, that's enough.
speaker1: you sure you wanna be in there with him?
speaker2: percy. they're moving house over in the infirmary. why don't you go see if they could use some help?
speaker4: they got all the men they need.
speaker2: why don't you just go make sure? i don't care where you go, percy, as long as it's not here at this very moment.

speaker1: wiped that grin off your shitpoke face, didn't i 
speaker2: it, percy! get the off my block!
speaker3: oww, damn, boss, he done bus' my fingers for true...
speaker2: we'll get it looked at, del, now keep yourself quiet like i said!
speaker2: if i let harry take those chains off you, you gonna be nice?
speaker2: your name is john coffey.
speaker4: yes, sir, boss, like the drink, only not spelt the same.
speaker2: so you can spell, can you?
speaker2: my name is paul edgecomb. if i'm not here, you can ask for mr. terwilliger, mr. howell, or mr. stanton...those gentlemen there. this isn't like the rest of the prison. it's a quiet place, we like to keep it that way.
speaker4: it weren't me making all the noise, boss.
speaker2: you having a joke on me, john coffey?
speaker4: no, sir.
speaker2: your time here can be easy or hard, depends on you. if you behave, you get to walk in the exercise yard every day. we might even play some music on the radio from time to time. questions?
speaker4: do you leave a light on after bedtime?
speaker4: because i get a little scared in the dark sometimes. if it's a strange place.
speaker2: it's pretty bright in here all night long. we keep half the lights burning in the corridor.
speaker4: cor'der.
speaker2: right out there.
speaker4: couldn't help it, boss. i tried to take it back, but it was too late.

speaker1: dean, run delacroix up to the infirmary and see if his fingers are broken. 
speaker2: course they're broken, i heard the bones crack. percy.
speaker3: you hear what he was yelling when we brought the big dummy in?
speaker1: how could i miss it, harry? the whole prison heard.
speaker2: you'll probably have to answer for sending him off the mile. he's gonna cause you trouble over this, you mark me.
speaker1: i'll chew that food when i have to. right now i wanna hear about the new inmate...aside from how big he is, okay?
speaker2: monstrous big.
speaker1: seems meek enough. looks like they sent us an imbecile to execute.
speaker3: imbecile or not, he deserves to fry for what he done. here...
speaker3: ...make your blood curdle.

speaker1: papa! papa, look! the blood! 
speaker2: oh my

speaker1: john coffey. like the drink, only not spelt the same. 
speaker1: i couldn't help it. i tried to take it back, but it was too late. mcgee boy, you are under arrest for murder.

speaker1: i interrupt? 
speaker2: i'm just about done.
speaker2: how's that pretty gal of yours?
speaker1: melinda's not so well, paul. not so well at all. got laid up with another headache yesterday. worst one yet. she's also developed this weakness in her right hand.
speaker2: doctor still think it's migraines?
speaker1: i'll be taking her up to indianola next day or so for some tests. had x-rays and the like. she is scared to death. truth to tell, so am i.
speaker2: if it's something they can see with an x-ray, maybe it's something they can fix.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker1: this just came in. d.o.e. on bitterbuck.
speaker2: you didn't come all the way down here just to hand me a d.o.e.
speaker1: no. i had an angry call from the state capital about twenty minutes ago. is it true you ordered percy wetmore off the block.
speaker2: it is.
speaker1: i'm sure you had reason, but like it or not, the wife of the governor of this state has only one nephew, and his name happens to be percy wetmore. i need to tell you how this lays out?
speaker2: little percy called his aunt and squealed like a schoolroom sissy. he also mention he assaulted a prisoner this morning out of sheer petulance? broke three fingers on eduard delacroix's left hand.
speaker1: i didn't hear that part. i'm sure she didn't either.
speaker2: the man is mean, careless, and stupid. bad combination in a place like this. sooner or later, he's gonna get somebody hurt. or worse.
speaker1: you and brutus howell will make sure that doesn't happen.
speaker2: easy enough to say. we can't watch him every minute, hal.
speaker1: stick with it. may not be much longer. i have it on good authority that percy has an application in at briar ridge.
speaker2: the mental hospital?
speaker1: administration job. better pay.
speaker2: then why's he still here? he could get that application pushed through...hell, with his connections, he could have any state job he wants.
speaker2: tell you what i think. i think he just wants to see one cook up close.
speaker1: well, he'll get his chance then, won't he? maybe then he'll be satisfied and move on. in the meantime, you'll keep the peace.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: thank you, paul.
speaker2: you give melinda my love, okay? i bet that x-ray turns out to be nothing at all.
speaker3: ...which is head: date of execution."

speaker1: paul? 
speaker2: hey, you. music too loud?
speaker1: no. there's just this big empty spot in the bed where my husband usually sleeps.
speaker2: he said to tell you he's having a little trouble with that tonight.
speaker1: worried about melinda and hal? is that what's got you up?
speaker2: yeah, that. things.
speaker1: things.
speaker2: got a new inmate today. big, simple-minded fella.
speaker1: do i want to hear what he did?
speaker2: no. one sleepless member of this family's enough. the things that happen in this world. it's a wonder allows it.
speaker1: why don't you come to bed? i've got something to help you sleep, and you can have all you want.
speaker2: don't i wish. i've still got something wrong with my waterworks, i don't want to pass it on.
speaker1: you see doc sadler yet?
speaker2: no, because he'll want me to take sulfa tablets and i'll spend the rest of the week puking in every corner of my office. it'll run its course all by itself, thank you very much for your concern.
speaker1: poor old guy...

speaker1: i guess the legislature loosened those purse-strings enough to hire on a new guard. look again. he's right there. 
speaker2: he's doing a cell check.
speaker3: it ain't normal for a mouse to come up on people that way. maybe it's rabid.
speaker1: oh, my christ. the big mouse expert. the mouse man. you see it foaming at the mouth, mouse man?
speaker3: aw, brutal, no! we'll be hip-deep in mice around here...
speaker3: he's in the restraint room. you know he's gonna be chewing the padding out of walls and making himself a nice little nest.
speaker2: all right. let's get the mouse.
speaker4: saw me a mouse go by.
speaker2: it was a dream. go back to sleep.
speaker4: weren't no dream. it was a mouse all right.
speaker2: can't put anything over on you.
speaker2: dean, watch the door. he tries to get past you, whack him.
speaker3: brutal or the mouse?
speaker1: har har, mouse man.

speaker1: you let him get past you. 
speaker2: no i didn't, i was here all the time!
speaker3: then where the is he?
speaker3: three grown men. outsmarted by a mouse.
speaker2: well, bright side is, all this commotion probably scared him off for good.
speaker1: yeah, that's right. that's the last we'll see of him...

speaker1: stares through his bars as the mouse goes by... 
speaker2: keeps combing his hair, unaware...

speaker1: you little son of a 
speaker2: well, i'll be there he is, big as billy-be-frigged. i thought brutal was pulling my leg.
speaker3: that's a mouse.
speaker2: yeah. brute said he was in here last night begging for food, came right up to the desk.
speaker3: my ass. give him some room, percy, see what he does.
speaker2: brave little bastard, gotta give him that.
speaker3: here, lemme try.
speaker3: maybe he's full.
speaker2: maybe he knows you're just a floater. gotta be an e block regular to feed the e block mouse, don'cha know... harry drops another piece--and sure enough, the mouse starts to eat. harry's smile fades. he and bill trade a look.
speaker2: i was just kidding ab--

speaker1: --and rush in to find: 
speaker2: percy met your mouse.
speaker3: it's in here somewhere! i'm gonna squish the little son of a
speaker4: percy, we already tried that--
speaker3: what? whad'ja say?
speaker4: i said--
speaker4: --uh, knock yourself out. hope you nail the bastard.

speaker1: gosh. ain't in there, huh? don't that beat the mousie band? 
speaker2: percy. you want to think about what you were doing just now.
speaker3: i know what i was doing. trying to get the mouse. you blind?
speaker4: you also scared the living out of me and bill. and them.
speaker3: so what? they aren't in cradle- school, case you didn't notice... ...although you treat them that way half the time.
speaker1: we don't scare 'em any more than we have to, percy. they're under enough strain as it is.
speaker2: men under strain can snap. hurt themselves. hurt others. that's why our job is talking, not yelling. you'll do better to think of this place like an intensive care ward in a hospital--
speaker3: i think of it as a bucket of to drown rats in. that's all. anybody doesn't like it can kiss my ass. how's that sit?
speaker3: try it. you'll be on the bread lines before the week is out.
speaker2: we all know who your connections are, percy... ...but you ever threaten a man on this block again, we're all gonna have a go. job be
speaker3: big talk. you done?
speaker2: get all this back in the restraint room. you're cluttering up my mile.

speaker1: arlen? your daughter and her family are here. 
speaker1: let's move. i want at least two rehearsals before he gets back.

speaker1: sittin' down, sittin' down, rehearsing now! everybody settle! 
speaker2: arlen bitterbuck, step forward.
speaker1: i'm steppin' forward, i'm steppin' forward, i'm steppin' forward...
speaker2: is his head properly shaved?
speaker3: no, it's dandruffy and it smells.
speaker2: i'll take that for a yes. all right, arlen, let's go.
speaker1: i'm walkin' the mile, i'm walkin' the mile, i'm walkin' the mile...

speaker1: i'm prayin', i'm prayin', i'm prayin'. the lord is my shepherd, so on an' so forth... 
speaker2: toot, you have to wait till i tell you to pray. okay, pray.
speaker1: still prayin', still prayin'...
speaker3: paul, we're not gonna have some cherokee medicine man in here whoopin' and hollerin' and shaking his dick, are we?
speaker2: well, actually--
speaker1: still prayin', prayin', gettin' right with jesus...
speaker3: do it quietly, you old gink!
speaker2: as i was saying, i don't believe they actually shake their dicks, harry. be that as it may, mr. bitterbuck is a christian, so we got reverend schuster coming in.
speaker4: oh, he's good. fast, too. doesn't get 'em worked up.
speaker2: on your feet, toot. you've prayed enough for one day.
speaker1: gettin' to my feet, walkin' again, walkin' on the green mile...

speaker1: what do i do? 
speaker2: watch and learn.
speaker3: sittin' down, sittin' down, takin' a seat in old sparky's lap...
speaker3: gettin' clamped, gettin' clamped, gettin'--ow, watch the skin!
speaker4: roll on one.

speaker1: arlen bitterbuck, you have been condemned to die by a jury of your peers, sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. do you have anything to say before the sentence is carried out? 
speaker2: shut up, brutal. that goes for everybody. i want quiet in here. toot, another remark like that, i'll have van hay roll on two for real.
speaker1: it was pretty funny.
speaker2: that's why i don't like it. tomorrow night we're doing this for real. i don't want somebody remembering a stupid joke like that and getting going again. ever try not laughing in church once something funny gets stuck in your head. same thing.
speaker1: sorry, paul. you're right. let's keep going. harry...

speaker1: what's with the sponge? 
speaker2: you soak it in brine, get it good and wet. conducts the electricity directly to the brain, fast like a bullet. you don't ever want to throw the switch on a man without that.

speaker1: now i'm fryin'! fryin'! geeaaah! fryin' like a done tom turkey! 
speaker2: one of the witnesses showed up a day early.
speaker3: all right, let's go again and do it right this time! get that out of the chair...

speaker1: you think if a man sincerely repents on what he done wrong, he might get to go back to the time that was happiest for him and live there forever? could that be what heaven is like? 
speaker2: i just about believe that very thing.
speaker1: had me a young wife when i was eighteen. spent our first summer in the mountains. made love every night. she'd just lie there after, bare-breasted in the firelight, and we'd talk sometimes till the sun come up. that was my best time.
speaker2: it'll be fine. you'll do fine.

speaker1: roll on two. 
speaker1: again.

speaker1: adios, chief. drop us a card from hell, let us know if it's hot enough. 
speaker2: he's paid what he's owed. he's square with the house again, so keep your hands off him.
speaker1: what's up his ass?
speaker3: you, percy. always you.
speaker1: you gotta hate the new boy? that the way it is around here?
speaker3: why not just move on? go to briar ridge. yeah, i know about it. sounds like a good job.
speaker1: i might take it, too. soon as you put me out front.
speaker1: you heard me. i want brutal's spot for the next execution.
speaker3: what's with you? seeing a man die isn't enough? you gotta be close enough to smell his nuts cook?
speaker1: i wanna be out front, is all. just one time. then you'll be rid of me.
speaker3: if i say no?
speaker1: i might just stick around for good, make me a career of this.

speaker1: look! i done tame me dat mouse! 
speaker2: we see that.
speaker1: watch dis! watch what he do!
speaker1: ain't he sumpthin now? ain't mr.
speaker2: mr. jingles?
speaker1: dat his name. he whisper it in my ear. cap'n, can i have a box for my mouse so he can sleep in here wi' me?
speaker2: i notice your english gets better when you want something.
speaker1: wanna see what else he can do? watch, watch, watch...
speaker1: we play fetch, mr. jingles? we play fetch?
speaker1: he fetch it ever' time. smart as hell, ain't he? we do da trick again, watch, watch, watch...
speaker3: who's training who here?
speaker4: that's some smart mouse, del. like he's a circus mouse or something.
speaker1: a circus mouse! dat jus' what he is, too! a circus mouse! i get outta here, he make me rich, see if he don't!
speaker5: well, well. looks like you found yourself a new friend, eddie.
speaker1: don' hurt him, 'kay? 'kay?
speaker5: that the one i chased?
speaker2: yes, that's the one. only del says his name is mr. jingles.
speaker5: is that so?
speaker2: del was just asking for a box. he thinks the mouse will sleep in it, i guess. that he might keep it for a pet. what do you think?
speaker5: i think it'll up his nose some night and run away, but i guess that's del's lookout. we oughtta find a cigar box. get some cotton batting from he dispensary to line it with. that should do real nice.
speaker2: man said get a cigar box.

speaker1: hal? you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: yeah. paul. close the door.
speaker2: uh. so you know. you got a new prisoner coming in tomorrow. william wharton. young kid. wild as hell, judging from this...
speaker2: ...been rambling all over the state last few years, causing all kinds of trouble. finally hit big time. killed three people in a holdup, including a pregnant woman. got "billy the kid" tattooed on his left arm...bad news all around...
speaker1: hal?
speaker2: it's a tumor, paul. a brain tumor.
speaker2: they got x-ray pictures of it. it's the size of a lemon, they said, and way down deep inside where they can't operate. they say she'll be dead by christmas. i haven't told her. i can't think how. for the life of me, paul, i can't think how to tell my wife she's going to die.

speaker1: i'm going. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: to the doctor. i'm going. today. just as soon as we get the new inmate squares away.
speaker2: that bad?
speaker1: oh yeah.

speaker1: boy's doped to the gills. dean, hand me them clothes... 
speaker1: william wharton! hey! i'm talking to you! put these clothes on!
speaker2: hellraiser, huh? looks more like a limp noodle to me. hey! hey, you!
speaker2: you been declared competent! know what that means? mean's you're gonna ride the lightning, son!
speaker2: bzzzzzzzzt-zap! just like that! how's it feel to know you're gonna die with your knees bent?
speaker3: c'mon, percy, give us a hand.

speaker1: don' look so good, boss. look like you runnin' you a fever. 
speaker2: boss edgecomb? needs ta see you down here, boss.
speaker3: got things to tend to just now, john coffey. you be still in your cell now, y'hear?

speaker1: big snuck up on me. no fair. 
speaker2: breathe...breathe...that's it...
speaker3: we thought he was doped. didn't we? didn't we all of us think he was doped?
speaker4: you didn't ask? i guess that's not a mistake you'll be need to make again anytime soon, is it?
speaker4: grab his arms! you too, percy! percy, it, get your feet out of cement and help us out here!
speaker4: get dean looked at right away, make sure he's all right. percy, you go make a report to the warden for me. start off by saying the situation is under control-- it's not a story, he won't appreciate you drawing out the suspense.
speaker2: what about you? you look about ready to collapse.
speaker4: i've got the mile till you all get back. go on now.
speaker5: boss? needs ta see ya down here.
speaker4: this is not a good time, john coffey. not a good time at all.
speaker5: but i needs ta see ya, boss. i needs ta talk t'ya.
speaker6: ...and finds coffey waiting at his bars.
speaker5: closer.
speaker4: i'm alone here right now, john.
speaker5: boss, please. i got to whisper in your ear.
speaker7: boss? you know you not s'pose to do dat.
speaker4: mind your business, del. what do you want, john coffey?
speaker5: just to help.
speaker4: what are you...doing?

speaker1: del, chrissake, settle down, i'm fine... 
speaker1: john? john, what's wrong?
speaker1: what did you do, big boy? what did you do to me?
speaker2: i helped it. didn't i help it?
speaker1: yes, but...how?
speaker2: just took it back, is all. awful tired now, boss. dog tired.
speaker3: what dat man do to you? he throw some gris-gris on you? you look diff'int! even walk diff'int. like y'all better!
speaker1: you're imagining thing. lie down, del. get you some rest.

speaker1: hi, honey. how are you feeling? 
speaker2: um...not too bad.
speaker1: what did the doctor say?
speaker2: oh, you know doctors. gobble-de- gook mostly.
speaker1: paul? what are you doing?
speaker2: what's it feel like?
speaker1: i know what it feels like...it feels great...but...paul...

speaker1: paul? not that i'm complaining. but we haven't gone four times in one night since we were nineteen. you wanna tell me just what the hell's going on? 
speaker2: well...thing is...i never actually got to the doctor yesterday...

speaker1: brutal? listen...i'm thinking of taking the morning off sick. you cover the fort for me? that's swell. thanks. yeah, i'm sure i'll feel better. okay. 
speaker2: you sure you ought to do this?
speaker1: i'm not sure what i'm sure of.

speaker1: i offer you a cold drink? 
speaker2: yes, ma'am, a cold drink would be fine. thank you.
speaker2: mr. hammersmith. your office said i'd find you at home today. i hope i'm not troubling you.
speaker3: that depends, mr.--?
speaker2: paul edgecomb. i'm the e block superintendant at cold mountain.
speaker3: the green mile. i've heard of it.
speaker2: that's why i'm here. i'd like to ask you about one of them. burt settles back down, motions "please sit".
speaker3: which client? now you got my curiosity aroused.
speaker2: john coffey.
speaker3: ah, coffey. he causing you problems?
speaker2: no, can't say he is. he doesn't like the dark. he cries on occasion. other than that...
speaker3: cries, does he? well, he's got a lot to cry about, i'd say. you know what he did.
speaker2: i read the court transcripts.
speaker2: thank you, missus.
speaker1: my pleasure. kids! lunch is about ready! y'all come on up!
speaker3: what exactly are you trying to find out? satisfy my curiosity, i'll see if i can satisfy yours.
speaker2: i've wondered if he ever did anything like that before.
speaker3: why? has he said anything?
speaker2: no. but a man who does a thing like that has often developed a taste for it over time. occurred to me it might be easy enough to follow his backtrail and find out. a man his size, and colored to boot, can't be that hard to trace.
speaker3: you'd think so, but you'd be wrong. believe me, we tried. it's like he dropped out of the sky.
speaker2: how do you explain that?
speaker3: we're in a depression. a third of the country's out of work. people are drifting by the thousands, looking for work, looking for that greener grass. even a giant like coffey wouldn't get noticed everywhere he goes... not until he kills a couple of little girls.
speaker2: he's...strange, i admit. but there doesn't seem to be any real violence in him. i know violent men, mr. hammersmith. i deal with 'em day in and day out.
speaker3: you didn't come up here to ask me whether he might have killed before. you came up here to see if i think he did it at all. that's it, isn't it?
speaker2: do you?
speaker3: one seldom sees a less ambiguous case. he was found with the victims in his arms. blurted out a confession right then and there.
speaker2: yet you defended him.
speaker3: everyone is entitled to a defense.
speaker1: kids! lunch!
speaker3: y'all listen to your momma, now!
speaker3: tell you something. you listen close, too, because it might be something you need to know.
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker3: we had us a dog. no particular breed, but gentle. ready to lick your hand or fetch a stick. just a sweet mongrel, you know the kind. in many way, a good mongrel dog is like you negro. you get to know it, and often you get to love it. it is of no particular use, but you keep it around because you think it loves you. if you're lucky, mr. edgecomb, you never have to find out any different. my wife and i were not so lucky. caleb. come here for a second.
speaker3: please, son.
speaker3: he has the one eye. i suppose he's lucky not to be blind. we get down on our knees and thank for that much at least. right caleb? okay, go on in now.
speaker3: that dog attacked my boy for no reason. just got it into his mind one day. same with john coffey. he was sorry afterwards, of that i have no doubt...but those little girls stayed raped and murdered nonetheless. maybe he's never done it before--my dog never bit before, but i didn't concern myself with that. i went out there with my rifle and grabbed his collar and blew his brains out.
speaker2: i'm sorry for your trouble.
speaker3: i'm as enlightened as the next man, mr. edgecomb. i would not bring back slavery for all the tea in china. i believe we have to be humane and generous in our efforts to solve the race problem. but we have to remember that the will bite if he gets the chance, just like a mongrel dog will bite if it crosses its mind to do so. is coffey guilty? yes, he is. don't you doubt it, and don't you turn your back on him. you might get away with it once or even a hundred times...but in the end...
speaker3: you understand?
speaker3: i'm gonna have to tear that old doghouse down one of these days.

speaker1: no, it's not for you. 
speaker2: oh. oh my.
speaker3: i'm smelling me some cornbread.
speaker1: it's from my missus. she wanted to thank you.
speaker3: thank me for what?
speaker1: you know. for helping me.
speaker3: helping you with what?
speaker3: ohhh. was your missus pleased?
speaker1: several times.
speaker3: this all for me?
speaker2: oh my. john, i can smell it from here. i surely can.
speaker3: can i give some to del?
speaker1: it's yours, john. you do with it as you please.
speaker3: here's for del and mr. jingles then.
speaker4: hey! what about me? i'm'a get some too, ain't i coffey looks to paul--do i have to?
speaker1: it's yours, john. as you please.
speaker3: well. fine. i think i'll keep the rest, then.
speaker1: courtesy of the gentleman across the way.
speaker2: oh, john. so very fine of you. so very kind. mr. jingles t'ank you.
speaker3: ...wel'cm...
speaker4: hey! what about me? don't you hold out on me, ya big dummy nigger!
speaker1: you'll keep a civil tongue on my block.
speaker1: you get that one for free. but that's the last one.
speaker4: that's it? just that little bitty one? guess i'll have to pay out for the rest, huh?

speaker1: yeehaaw! good shot, weren't it? oh, the look on your face! 
speaker2: you believe this? son of a on me!
speaker1: hey, d'jall like that? i'm currently cooking some turds t'go with it! nice soft ones! i'll have 'em out t'yall tomorrow!
speaker3: we've been looking to clear that room out anyway.

speaker1: hey! whassit now, movin' day? y'all wanna come in and dust a little? y'can shine my for me while yer at it! 
speaker1: you can come in here on your legs, but you'll go out on your backs, billy the kid guarantee ya that. c'mon, fuckstick. no sneakin' up on me this time. we'll go man to man, see who's the better fel--
speaker2: c'mon, wild bill. little walky walky.
speaker1: don't you call me that! wild bill hickock wasn't no range rider! he was just a bushwackin' john law! sonovabitch sat with his back to the door and kilt by a drunk!
speaker3: oh, my suds and body! a history lesson! you just never know what you're gonna get when you come to work everyday on the green mile. thank you, wild bill.
speaker1: oh, not in there! c'mon now, i'll be good! honest injun i will! no! no! ummmmhhhh...urg...ah!
speaker4: holy christ, he's pitchin' a fit!
speaker2: he'll be fine, boys. trust me on this one.

speaker1: li'l black sambo, yassuh, boss, yassuh, howdoo you do? 
speaker2: hope your bags are packed.

speaker1: del, grab your things. big day for you and mr. jingles. 
speaker2: whatchoo talkin' bout?
speaker1: important folks heard about your mouse, wanna see him perform. not just guards, either. one of them's a politician all the way from the state capital, i believe.
speaker2: you fellas comin'?
speaker3: we got other fish to fry just now, del, but you knock 'em for a loop.
speaker4: you knock 'em for a loop like mr. harry says, del.
speaker1: let's move along briskly, folks. there's not much time.
speaker5: i'm sittin' down, i'm sittin' down, i'm sittin' down.

speaker1: been sweepin' floors here ten years, never had to wear no tie before. 
speaker2: you're a v.i.p. today, earl, so just shut up.
speaker3: messieurs et mesdames! bienvenue au cirque de mousie!

speaker1: roll on two. 
speaker2: that's that.
speaker3: very good. very professional.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: they love mr. jingles! they laugh and cheer and clap they hands!
speaker3: well, that's just aces. pop back in your cell, old-timer.
speaker4: percy, you
speaker3: del! hey, you numb wit, i didn't mean nothin' by it! you all ri--
speaker5: ain't you sweet. soft. like a girl. i druther your than your sister's pussy, i think.
speaker1: wharton!
speaker5: i let 'im go, i'us just playin' and i let 'im go! never hurt a hair on his purty head! your noodle ain't limp at all, loverboy! i think you sweet on ol' billy the kid... ...oooh, but smell you.
speaker2: lookit, he done his pants! look what the big man done! he bus' other people wid 'is stick, mais oui some mauvais homme, but someone touch him, he make water in his pants jus' like a baby!
speaker4: shut up, del.
speaker3: you talk about this to anyone, i'll get you all fired. i swear that to
speaker1: what happens on the mile, stays on the mile. always has.
speaker3: you keep laughing, you french- fried faggot. you just keep laughing.

speaker1: what about dean? he's got a little boy would love a pet mouse, i bet. 
speaker2: how could a boy be trust wid mr. jingles? maybe forget to feed him. and how he keep up wid his trainin', just a boy, n'est-ce pas?
speaker1: all right, i'll take him.
speaker2: t'ank you kindly, merci beaucoup, but you live out in the woods, and mr. jingles, he be scared to live out dans la foret.
speaker1: he whisper that in your ear?
speaker3: how about mouseville?
speaker2: mouseville?
speaker3: tourist attraction down in florida. tallahassee, i think. is that right, paul? tallahassee?
speaker1: yeah, that's right. tallahassee. just down the road apiece from the dog university. brutal's mouth twitches, but he manages to keep a straight face. he gives paul a look--don't blow this.
speaker3: you think they'd take mr. jingles?
speaker1: might. he's pretty smart.
speaker2: hey! what dis mouseville?
speaker3: tourist attraction, i said. they got this big tent you go into--
speaker2: like a cirque? you have to pay?
speaker3: you shittin' me? course you pay. dime a piece, two cents for the kids. and inside the tent there's this mouse city made out of boxes and toilet paper rolls...
speaker3: ...plus they got the mouseville all-star circus. there's mice that swing on trapeze, mice that roll barrels, mice that stack coins...
speaker2: dat's it! dat's da place for mr. jingles! you gonna be a circus mouse after all! gonna live in a mouse city down in florida!
speaker3: percy, no!
speaker4: knew i'd get him sooner or later. just a matter of time, really.
speaker5: give'm to me.
speaker5: give'm to me. might still be time.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker3: paul, what the hell--
speaker2: please, john. oh johnny, help him, please help him, s'il vous plait.
speaker6: what did you do?
speaker5: i helped del's mouse. he a circus mouse. goan live in a mouse city down in...down in...
speaker3: florida?
speaker5: boss percy's bad. he mean. he step on del's mouse. i took it back, though.
speaker1: brute, come along with me. you fellas go on back to you cribbage game.

speaker1: don't start in on me. it was just a mouse. never belonged here in the first place. 
speaker2: the mouse is fine. just fine. you're no better at mouse-killing than anything else around here.
speaker1: you expect me to believe that? i heard the thing crunch.
speaker2: aren't you glad mr. jingles is okay? after all our talks about how we should keep the prisoners calm? aren't you relieved?
speaker1: what kind of game is this?
speaker2: no game. see for yourself.
speaker1: you switched them! you switched them somehow, you bastards!
speaker3: i always keep a spare mouse in my wallet for occasions such as this.
speaker1: you're playing with me, the both of you! just who the do you think you are--
speaker2: we're the people you work with, percy, but not for long. i want your word.
speaker1: my word?
speaker2: i put you out front for del, you put in your transfer to briar ridge the very next day.
speaker1: what if i just call up certain people and tell them you're harassing me? bullying me?
speaker2: go ahead. i promise you'll leave your share of blood on the floor.
speaker1: over a mouse? you think anyone's gonna give two shits?
speaker2: no. but four men will swear you stood by while wild bill tried to strangle dean to death. about that people will care, percy. even your uncle the governor will care.
speaker3: thing like that goes in your work record. work record can follow a man around a long, long time.
speaker2: i put you out front, you put in your transfer. that's the deal.
speaker2: you make a promise to a man, you shake his hand.

speaker1: hey, boys. say hi, mr. jingles. 
speaker2: eduard delacroix, will you step forward?
speaker1: boss edgecomb?
speaker2: yes, del?
speaker1: don' let nothin' happen to mr. jingles, okay?
speaker1: here, take him.
speaker2: del. i can't have a mouse on my shoulder while...you know.
speaker3: i'll take him, boss. jus' for now.
speaker1: yeah, you take 'im, john. take him til' dis foolishment done--bien! after, you take him down to florida? to dat mouseville?
speaker4: we'll do it together, most likely. maybe take a little vacation time.
speaker1: people pay a dime apiece to see him. two cents for the kiddies.
speaker4: that's right, del.
speaker1: you a good man, boss howell. you too, boss edgecomb. wish i could'a met you bot' someplace else.
speaker1: au revoir, mon ami. je t'aime, mon petit.

speaker1: eduard delacroix, you have been condemned to die by a jury of your peers, sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. you have anything to say before sentence is carried out? 
speaker2: i sorry for what i do. i give anything to take it back, but i can't. have mercy on me. don' forget 'bout mouseville.
speaker1: no such place. that's just a fairy tale these guys told you to keep you quiet. just thought you should know, faggot.

speaker1: roll on two. 
speaker2: it's dry!

speaker1: no water! no water! you crazy? 
speaker2: stop it, stop it, oh can't you see he's had enough?
speaker3: why don't you shut it down?
speaker1: he's still alive! you want me to shut down while he's still alive?
speaker1: you watch, you son of a
speaker1: kill it!
speaker4: you do it. you're running the show, ain't you?
speaker3: it's all right, folks, it's all under control. just a power surge from the storm, that's all, nothing to worry about...
speaker1: dean, get doc's stethoscope.
speaker5: oh my is it always like this? why didn't somebody tell me? i never would have come!

speaker1: i didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet-- 
speaker2: brutal, no!
speaker3: what do you mean, no? how can you say no? you saw what he did!
speaker2: delacroix's dead, nothing can change that, and percy's not worth it!
speaker3: so he just gets away with it? is that how it works?
speaker4: what the was that? christ, three witnesses puked all over the floor up there! and the smell! i got van hay to open both doors, but that smell won't come out for five years, that's what i'm betting! and that wharton is singing about it! i can hear him!
speaker4: okay, boys. okay. now what the happened?
speaker4: percy? something to say?
speaker1: i didn't know the sponge was supposed to be wet.
speaker4: how many years you spend on the toilet seat before somebody told you to put it up?
speaker2: percy up, hal. pure and simple.
speaker4: is that your official position?
speaker2: don't you think it should be?
speaker2: he'll be putting in a transfer request to briar ridge tomorrow. moving on to bigger and better things. isn't that right, percy?
speaker4: you're a little asshole, and i don't like you a bit. have that transfer request on my desk first thing.

speaker1: barbecue! me and you! stinky, pinky, phew-phew-phew! weren't billy or jilly or hilly or roy--it was a french-fried named delacroix! 
speaker2: you're about ten seconds away from spending the rest of your life in the padded room.
speaker3: poor del. poor old del.
speaker2: yes. poor old del. john, are you okay?
speaker3: i could feel it from here.
speaker2: what do you mean? you could hear it? is that what you mean?
speaker3: he's out of it now, though. he's the lucky one. no matter how it happened, del's the lucky one. paul realizes he won't get a coherent answer.
speaker2: where's mr. jingles?
speaker3: ran down there. don't think he'll be back. awful tired now, boss. dog tired.
speaker2: me too, john. me too.

speaker1: i hate this. 
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: she's having one of her good days. 
speaker2: what a bad day?
speaker1: sometimes she's...not herself anymore. she swears.
speaker2: swears.
speaker1: it just pops out, the most awful language you can imagine. she doesn't even know she's doing it. i didn't know she'd ever heard words like that...and to hear her say them in her sweet voice... i'm glad she's having a good day, paul. i'm glad for you and jan.

speaker1: honey? if you don't say what's on your mind, i'm afraid i'll have to smother you with a pillow. 
speaker2: i'm thinking i love you. i'm thinking i don't know what i'd do if you were gone.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i'm also thinking i'd like to have the boys over tomorrow.

speaker1: ma'am, you sure know how to fry up some fine chicken...brutal, don't hog the taters now...try that corn yet? it's something special... 
speaker2: you saw what he did with the mouse.
speaker3: i could'a gone the rest of the day without you bringing that up.
speaker4: i could'a gone the rest of the year.
speaker2: he did it to me too. he put his hands on me and took my bladder infection away.
speaker5: when he came home, he was...all better.
speaker4: you're talking about an authentic healing. a praise-jesus miracle.
speaker2: i am.
speaker3: if you say it, i accept it. but what's it got to do with us?
speaker5: melinda? oh, paul...
speaker3: melinda? melinda moores?
speaker5: you really think you can help her?
speaker2: it's not a bladder infection, or even a busted-up mouse. but there might be a chance.
speaker6: hold on now. you're talking about our jobs. sneak a sick woman onto a cellblock?
speaker2: hal would never allow that. you know him, he wouldn't believe something unless it fell on him.
speaker3: so you're talking about taking john coffey to her. that's more than just our jobs, paul.
speaker4: right. that's prison time if we get caught.
speaker6: let's not discuss this like it's even an option. brutal, help me out here...
speaker3: i'm sure she's a fine woman...
speaker5: the finest.
speaker2: what's happening to her is an offense, brutal. to the eyes and the ears and the heart.
speaker3: i have no doubt. but we don't know her like you and jan do...do we?
speaker2: that's why it's a lot to ask.
speaker6: it is. let's not forget coffey's a murderer. what if he escapes? i'd hate losing my job or going to prison, but i'd hate having a dead child on my conscience even more.
speaker2: i don't think that'll happen... ...in fact, i don't think he did it at all. the men are stunned by this. off their looks:
speaker2: i just can't see putting a gift like that in the hands of a man who would kill a child.
speaker4: well, that's a tender notion, but the man's on death row for the crime. plus, he's huge. if he tried to get away, it'd take a lot of bullets to stop him.
speaker3: we'd all have shotguns in addition to sidearms. i'd insist on that. he tried anything, we'd have to take him down. you understand.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker3: so. tell us what you had in mind.

speaker1: i was never here. 
speaker2: for five bucks, you was never nowhere.

speaker1: fellas thirsty? fresh out of the icebox. 
speaker2: oh, thanks. that's swell.
speaker3: yeah, hot in here.
speaker4: hey. hey, i'm'a get some too.
speaker1: my you get some too.
speaker5: you think you deserve any?
speaker3: day report says he's been okay.
speaker4: hell, yes, i been behaved. c'mon, now, don't be stingy hogs.

speaker1: you gonna stay behaved? 
speaker2: c'mon, you clunk, gimme that.
speaker1: you promise me, or i'll drink it myself right here in front of you.
speaker2: c'mon now, don't be that way. i be good.
speaker1: cup.
speaker2: we'll break out the fire hose and take it anyway. and you will have drunk your last r.c. cola. unless they serve 'em down in hell.

speaker1: anybody wants to back out, now's the time. after this, there's no turning back. so? we gonna do this? 
speaker2: sure. i'd like to take a ride.
speaker3: guess were all in.

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: payback.
speaker1: let go of me! let go!
speaker2: settle down, percy!
speaker3: oooo, poicy! what would your mother say?
speaker1: let go, you ignoramus! i know people! big people!
speaker2: so you've said. c'mon, stick out your arms like a good boy.
speaker1: i won't. and you can't make me.
speaker3: you're dead wrong about that, you know.
speaker3: you gonna put your arms up? i'll rip your ears off. use 'em for tea caddies. you know i will.
speaker2: the man's ripping your ears off, percy. i'd do as he says.
speaker1: please, paul. don't put me in with wild bill. please.
speaker2: you would think that.

speaker1: you'll get 'em back, don't worry. 
speaker2: that's more than i can say about your jobs. all your jobs! you can't do this to me! you can't!
speaker3: let you in on a little secret. we can and we are.
speaker3: you're going to have a few hours of quiet time now, so you can reflect on what you did to del.
speaker1: if you get lonely, think about olive oyl... ...uk-uk-uk-uk!

speaker1: one more time--what do you say if somebody comes by? 
speaker2: coffey got upset, so we put him in the restraint room. they hear any noise, they'll think it's him.
speaker3: we goan for the ride now?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker1: what about us?
speaker2: you're over in admin, going over del's file. brutal and harry are in the laundry doing their wash--
speaker4: where you fink you're goin'?
speaker3: you're a bad man.
speaker4: s'right, nigger. bad as you'd want.
speaker4: whooeee. whole room's spinning. like i'm shit-ass drunk. i have me some shine or what?
speaker4: oughtta have they own 'lectric chair. white man oughtn't havta sit in no 'lectric chair, nossir...
speaker3: he's a bad man.

speaker1: they're still in there. pieces of them, still in there. i hear them screaming. 
speaker2: john, come along! right now, y'hear? c'mon! toward that door!

speaker1: lie down on this. it'll be easier for you and no harder for us. 
speaker2: say. this is fun.

speaker1: look, boss! it's cassie, the lady in the rocking chair! 
speaker2: shhh. john, you have to be quiet now.
speaker1: you see her? you see the lady?
speaker3: we see her, john.

speaker1: how far is it? 
speaker2: just up ahead...
speaker3: hey there, little firefly. where's mrs. firefly this evening?
speaker3: oh, there you is. you come out to play too?
speaker4: they seem...drawn to you.
speaker3: i love 'em, is why. they don't think no hurtful thoughts. they's just happy to be. happy little lightning bugs...
speaker4: c'mon, big boy. upsy-daisy.
speaker4: john? do you know where we're taking you?
speaker3: help a lady?
speaker4: that's right. help a lady. but how did you know?
speaker3: dunno. tell the truth, boss, i don't know much'a anything. never have.
speaker3: bye, fireflies. bye.

speaker1: we can still turn back. paul hesitates, wanting to do just that, but: 
speaker2: boss, look. someone's up.
speaker1: this is a mistake. christ, paul, what were we thinking?
speaker3: too late now. harry, keep john here until we call you.
speaker4: who the goes there at two- thirty in the morning?
speaker3: hal, it's us! it's paul and brutal--it's us!
speaker4: paul, what are you doing here at this hour? it's not a lockdown, is it? or a riot?
speaker3: hal, sakes, take your finger off the trigger...
speaker4: are you hostages? who's out there? who's by that truck?
speaker4: john coffey! halt! halt right there or i shoot!
speaker5: hal? who are you talking to, you cocksucker?
speaker3: no one's hurt. we're here to help.
speaker4: help what? i don't understand. is this a prison break?
speaker3: i can't explain what it is. you just have to trust me.
speaker4: what do you...want?
speaker5: hal! make them go away! no salesmen in the middle of the night! no fuller brushes! no french knickers with come in the crotch! tell them to take a flying in a rolling d...d...
speaker2: just to help. just to help, boss, that's all.
speaker4: you can't. no one can.
speaker4: don't you go up there! don't you do it!
speaker2: boss, you just be quiet now and let me be.
speaker5: stay out of here! whoever you are, just stay out! i'm not dressed for visitors, you rat's asshole!

speaker1: oh, so big! pull down your pants! let's have a look! 
speaker1: don't come near me, pigfucker.
speaker1: why do you have so many scars? who hurt you so badly?
speaker2: don't hardly remember, ma'am.
speaker1: what's your name?
speaker2: john coffey, ma'am. like the drink, only not spelt the same.
speaker2: ma'am?
speaker1: yes, john coffey?
speaker2: i see it. i see it.
speaker2: you be still now. you be so quiet and so still.

speaker1: john! sick it up! cough 'em out like you done before! 
speaker1: he's choking! whatever he sucked out of her, he's choking on it!
speaker2: how did i get here? we were going to the hospital in indianola, weren't we? we stopped and you bought me a packet of posies...
speaker3: shhh. it doesn't matter. it doesn't matter anymore.
speaker2: did i have the x-ray? did i
speaker4: yes.
speaker4: it was clear. there was no tumor.
speaker2: who is that man?
speaker4: john? can you turn around? can you turn around and see this lady?
speaker2: what's your name?
speaker5: john coffey, ma'am.
speaker2: like the drink, only not spelled the same.
speaker5: no, ma'am. not spelt the same at all.
speaker3: melly, no...
speaker2: i dreamed of you. i dreamed you were wandering in the dark, and so was i. we found each other. we found each other in the dark.
speaker2: it's st. christopher. i want you to have it, mr. coffey, and wear it. he'll keep you safe. please wear it for me.
speaker5: thank you, ma'am.
speaker2: thank you, john.

speaker1: c'mon, john, stay on your feet. 
speaker2: christ, he goes down, we'll need three mules and a crane to pick him up again...
speaker3: he'll never sit in old sparky. you know that, don't you? he swallowed that stuff for a reason. i give him a few days. one of us'll be doing a cell check and there he'll be. dead on his bunk.
speaker1: if that's his choice, he's earned it. let's get him back on the mile.

speaker1: am i glad to see you! you were gone so long! wild bill's making noises like he's gonna wake up... what the hell's wrong with him? 
speaker2: he's hurting, dean. hurting bad.
speaker3: john, we're gonna set you on your bunk now. ready?
speaker1: what about mrs. moores? was it like the mouse? was it a...you know...a miracle?
speaker3: yes. yes it was.
speaker4: i think we got away with it.
speaker2: we still gotta convince a certain somebody to keep his trap shut.
speaker3: get his stuff.
speaker3: i want to talk, not shout. i take the tape off, you gonna be calm.
speaker2: my mother always said if you do it fast, it won't hurt so much.
speaker2: i guess she was wrong.
speaker5: get me out of this nut-coat.
speaker3: in a minute.
speaker5: now! now! right n--
speaker3: you shut up and listen. you deserved to be punished for what you did to del. you'll accept it like a man, or we'll make you sorry you were ever born. we'll tell people how you sabotaged del's execution--
speaker5: sabotaged!
speaker3: --and how you yourself like a frightened little girl. yes, we'll talk, that's a given--but, percy, mind me now...we'll also see you beaten within an inch of your life.
speaker3: we know people, too, are you so foolish you don't realize that? people with friends and loved ones doing time in this prison. people who'd be happy to amputate you nose or your just so someone they care about could get an extra three hours in the exercise yard every week. let bygones be bygones. nothing's hurt so far but your pride...and nobody need ever know about that except the people in this room.
speaker2: what happens on the mile, stays on the mile. always has.
speaker5: may i be let out of this coat now?
speaker5: my things?
speaker3: think it over, percy.
speaker5: oh, i intend to. i intend to think about it very hard. starting right now.
speaker2: he'll talk. sooner or later.

speaker1: easy, easy. you all right? 
speaker2: what'a you looking at, you limp noodle? you wanna kiss my or my dick?
speaker3: oh oh no...
speaker4: punished them bad men.
speaker1: why wild bill? why?
speaker4: i saw in his heart. when he grab my arm, i saw what wild billy done. saw plain as day. can't hide what's in your heart.
speaker1: what? saw what?
speaker4: take my hand, boss. you see for yourself.
speaker5: paul, no!
speaker4: my hand.
speaker1: no...please...
speaker4: gots to, boss. gots to give you a little bit of myself. a gift, like. a gift of what's in me so you can see... ...and paul sees:
speaker2: you lover your sister? you make any noise, know what happens? i'll kill her instead of you. and if you make any noise, i'll kill her. and he drags them out into the coming dawn...
speaker4: he kill 'em with they love. they love for each other. you see how it is?
speaker4: that's how it is ever' day. that's how it is all over the worl'...

speaker1: ...well, i dunno, he just snapped, i guess... 
speaker2: ...s'right, one minute he's fine, the next--blammo...
speaker3: ...bastard grabbed him through the bars a few days back, scared the boy so bad he wet himself...

speaker1: son! son! can you hear me? 
speaker2: speak up if you can hear us! we gotta ask you some questions!
speaker3: i think this boy's cheese slid off his cracker.
speaker4: sees paul, motions him aside to talk privately:
speaker4: i'll cover you as much as i can, even if it mean my job, but i have to know. does this have anything to do with what happened at my house? does it, paul?
speaker5: no.

speaker1: it makes sense. i read the file. hal even said it himself. wharton rambled all over the state last few years, causing trouble. hell, longer than that. been at it since he was ten. vandalism. petty theft. setting fires. 
speaker2: you saw him. you actually saw this wild bill person take those girls.
speaker1: their father hired him on for a few days last spring, help repair the barn. cheap labor, just another drifter...
speaker3: only not.
speaker1: sick came back a month later, just before dawn. took the girls...did what he did. coffey found them afterwards and tried to help. it was too late.
speaker2: then you can stop it. the execution, i mean. get coffey a new trial.
speaker1: based on what, honey? some kind of magical vision i had?
speaker2: show this farmer--what's his name, detterick?--show him a picture of wild bill. why not? if wharton was there...if the farmer can identify his picture and they know he was there...
speaker3: him being there in may doesn't mean he came back and killed those girls in june. even if he was committing other crimes.
speaker1: they got their killer as far as they're concerned. hell, coffey's own lawyer would come throw the switch if we let him.
speaker2: then lie.
speaker1: lie? about what?
speaker2: tell them wharton confessed to the crime. brutus, you can back him up, say you heard it too. you can say that's what set percy off. he shot wharton because he couldn't stand thinking of what happened to those two little girls, it snapped his mind... ...what? what now?
speaker4: we never reported anything like that. we would've, too, everybody knows it. it's part of our job.
speaker3: besides, confessing don't make it so. slugs like wild bill lie about everything. crimes they committed, women they had, even the weather.
speaker2: but he was there! he painted their barn! he ate dinner with them!
speaker1: all the more reason he might take credit for the crime. he's gonna fry anyway, so why not boast?
speaker2: all right. then you've got to get john coffey out on your own.
speaker5: ma'am?
speaker2: you did it once, didn't you? only this time, don't bring him back.
speaker4: ma'am, your son's grown up and moved away. my kids are just starting kindergarten. will you be the one to explain to them why their daddy's in prison?
speaker2: work out a plan. make it look like a real escape.
speaker5: better be a plan an imbecile could dream up. nobody'd believe it otherwise.
speaker3: even if we did think of something, it wouldn't do any good.
speaker2: why not? just why the not?
speaker1: because he's a six-foot-eight-inch baldheaded black man with barely enough brains to feed himself. how long you think it'd be before he was recaptured? two hours? six?
speaker2: do you mean to kill him, you cowards? do you?
speaker2: don't touch me! next week this time you'll be a murderer, no better than that man wharton, so don't touch me!

speaker1: i'm so sorry i called you a coward. i feel worse about that than anything i've ever said to you in our whole marriage. 
speaker2: even that time we went camping and you called me old stinky sam?
speaker1: does hal know? that coffey's innocent, i mean? can he help? does he have the influence to do something about this?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: then don't tell him. if he can't help, don't tell him. ever.
speaker2: i won't.
speaker1: there's no way out of this for you, is there?
speaker2: no. i've been thinking about it, too, believe me. tell you the truth, honey. i've done some things in my life i'm not proud of, but this is the first time i've ever felt in real danger of hell.
speaker1: hell? oh paul... talk to him. talk to john. find out what he wants.

speaker1: hello, boss. 
speaker2: hello, john.
speaker2: i guess you know we're coming down to it now. another couple of days. is there anything special you'd like for dinner that night? we can rustle you up most anything.
speaker1: meatloaf be nice. mashed taters with gravy. okra, maybe. i's not picky.
speaker2: what about a preacher? someone you could say a little prayer with?
speaker1: don't want no preacher. you can say a prayer, if you want. i could get kneebound with you, i guess.
speaker2: me?
speaker2: s'pose i could, if it came to that.
speaker2: john, i have to ask you something very important right now.
speaker1: i know what you gonna say. you don' have to say it.
speaker2: i do. i do have to. john, tell me what you want me to do. you want me to take you out of here? just let you run away? see how far you can get?
speaker1: why would you do such a foolish thing?
speaker2: on the day of my judgement, when i stand before and he asks me why did i kill one of his true miracles, what am i gonna say?
speaker1: you tell the father it was a kindness you done. i know you hurtin' and worryin', i can feel it on you, but you oughtta quit on it now. because i want it over and done. i do.
speaker1: i'm tired, boss. tired of bein' on the road, lonely as a sparrow in the rain. tired of not ever having me a buddy to be with, or tell me where we's coming from or going to, or why. mostly i'm tired of people being ugly to each other. i'm tired of all the pain i feel and hear in the world ever' day. there's too much of it. it's like pieces of glass in my head all the time. can you understand?
speaker2: yes, john. i think i can.
speaker3: there must be something we can do for you, john. there must be something you want.
speaker1: i ain't never seen me a flicker show.

speaker1: i be all right, fellas. this here's the hard part. i be all right in a little while. 
speaker2: john, i should have that just for now. i'll give it back after.
speaker1: you know, i fell asleep this afternoon and had me a dream. i dreamed about del's mouse.
speaker2: did you, john?
speaker1: i dreamed he got down to that place boss howell talked about, that mouseville place. i dreamed there was kids, and how they laughed at his tricks! my!
speaker1: i dreamed those two little blonde- headed girls were there. they 'us laughing, too. i put my arms around 'em and sat 'em on my knees, and there 'us no blood comin' outta their hair and they 'us fine. we all watch mr. jingles roll that spool, and how we did laugh. fit to bus', we was.

speaker1: what should we pray for, john? 
speaker2: strength?
speaker1: please help us finish what we've started, and please welcome this man, john coffey--like the drink, but not spelled the same-- into heaven and give him peace. please help us to see him off the best we can and let nothing go wrong. amen.
speaker2: i know a prayer i once heard. can i say it?
speaker1: you go right ahead, john. take all the time you need.
speaker2: baby meek and mild, pray for me... and paul sees:
speaker3: ...and every child. be my strength, be my friend...
speaker2: ...be with me until the end. amen.

speaker1: they's a lot of folks here hate me. a lot. i can feel it. like bees stinging me. it hurts. 
speaker2: feel how we feel, then. we don't hate you--can you feel that?
speaker3: kill him twice, you boys! you go on and kill that baby- killer twice, that'd be fine!
speaker4: wipe you face before you stand up, dean.
speaker4: roll on one.
speaker3: does it hurt yet? i hope it does!
speaker4: john coffey...you have been condemned to die in the electric chair by a jury of your peers...sentence imposed by a judge in good standing in this state. do you have anything to say before sentence is carried out?
speaker1: i'm sorry for what i am.
speaker3: you ought to be! oh, you monster, you well ought to be!
speaker1: please, boss, don't put that thing over my face. don't put me in the dark, i's afraid of the dark.
speaker4: all right, john.

speaker1: ...heaven...i'm in heaven... 
speaker2: sit and wait, barely breathing.

speaker1: is staring at coffey, unable to say the words. 
speaker2: he kill 'em with they love. that's how it is ever' day. all over the worl'...
speaker1: roll on two.

speaker1: that was the last execution i ever took part in. just couldn't do it anymore after that. brutal either. we both transferred out, took jobs with boys' correctional. that was all right. catch 'em young, that became my motto. might even have done some good. 
speaker1: you don't believe me.
speaker2: i don't imagine you would lie to me, paul. it's just that...
speaker1: ...it's quite a story.
speaker2: yes. quite a story. one thing i don't understand. you said you and jan had a grownup son in 1935. is that right? but if that's true...
speaker1: the math doesn't work, does it?
speaker1: you feel up to a walk?

speaker1: there. it's in there. 
speaker2: paul? this thing you want to show me. is it scary?
speaker1: scary? no. not really.

speaker1: there. 
speaker1: hey. wake up, old boy. wake up. elaine's breath catches in her throat...
speaker2: paul? it isn't...it can't be...
speaker1: come over here, boy. come on over her and see this lady.
speaker2: that can't be mr. jingles.
speaker1: messieurs et mesdames. beinvenue au cirque du mousie.
speaker2: oh, paul. don't make him do it again. i can't bear to watch.
speaker1: but he loves it so much.
speaker1: this isn't exactly the mouseville we had in mind...but we make do, don't we, old fella?
speaker3: as i live and breathe!
speaker3: fooled you, didn't i got yourself a little love nest here, i see...
speaker3: ...what the is that a mouse?
speaker1: don't hurt him, okay? okay?
speaker3: it's a mouse, y'old fool, they carry all kind'a disease...
speaker3: ...now step aside.
speaker1: you leave him alone, percy! you leave him alone, or by i'll--
speaker3: who you calling percy? name's brad, you senile and i'm gonna nail that mouse, you can take that to the everfucking bank.
speaker2: how dare you? get out!
speaker3: off, you wrinkeldy old
speaker2: his name is mr. edgecomb. if you ever call him paulie again, your days of employment at georgia pines will end.
speaker3: who the you think you are?
speaker2: i am the grandmother of the man who is currently speaker of the georgia house of representatives. a man who loves his relatives, mr. dolan. all it would take is a phone call.
speaker2: at first i thought i'd let you be. i'm old, and that seemed easiest. but when my friends are threatened and abused, i do not let it be. now get out, or you won't work another day here. not another hour. i swear it.
speaker3: don't know what you're getting so het up about. just a mouse.
speaker2: get out, you ignorant man. what little mind you have is ugly and misdirected.
speaker3: don't bother coming back here tomorrow...mr. edgecomb gonna be a new lock on this door. this is off-limits to residents, no matter what mrs. my don't stink has to say about it.
speaker2: little trick i learned from percy wetmore.
speaker1: is your grandson really speaker of the house?
speaker2: he is.
speaker1: you gonna thank the lady? she just saved your old mousie hide.
speaker1: i think mr. jingles happened by accident. i think when we electrocuted del, and it all went so badly...well, john could feel it, you know...and i think a tiny part of whatever was inside of him just leapt out... me, i was no accident. john had to give me a little part of himself...a gift, like...so i could see for myself what wild bill had done. when john did that, a part of whatever power worked through him spilled into me.
speaker2: he...what? infected you with life?
speaker1: that's as good a word as any. he infected us both, didn't he, mr. jingles. with life. i'm a hundred and five years old, elaine. i was forty the year john coffey walked the green mile.
speaker2: ...oh my
speaker1: i haven't even had a cold since 1935. i've had to watch my friends and loved ones die off through the years...hal and melinda...brutus howell...my wife...my son... ...and you, elaine. you'd die, too, and my curse is knowing i'll be there to see it...

speaker1: ...that's my punishment, you see? my punishment for letting john coffey ride the lightning...for killing a miracle of 
speaker1: ...you'll be gone, like all the others, and i'll have to stay...

speaker1: i'll die eventually, i imagine. i have no illusions of immortality. but i will have wished for death long before death finds me. 
speaker1: in truth, i wish for it already.

speaker1: mr. jingles? 
speaker1: where you been, boy? i've been worried about you. you hungry?

speaker1: i think about all the people i've loved, now long gone. i think about my beautiful jan, and how i lost her so many years ago. i think about all of us walking our own green mile, each in our own time. but one thought, more than any other, keeps me awake most nights... ...if he could make a mouse live so long, how much longer do i have? 
speaker1: we each owe a death, there are no exceptions, but sometimes, oh the green mile is so long...

