speaker1: ... we go back to our homeroom for dismissal, unless you have a pass for sports or something. 
speaker2: and is that what you did on the day in question?
speaker1: no. mr. gettys asked me to stay after class.
speaker2: what happened next, barbara?
speaker1: mr. gettys closed the door.
speaker2: everyone else had gone?
speaker1: yes. he told me to sit in the chair beside his desk.

speaker1: in your own words, barbara, can you tell us exactly what happened during the next few minutes? 
speaker2: i told him i was afraid i would miss my bus. he promised i would get to the bus on time if i would help him to do something...
speaker2: ... then he put -- before i could say anything -- he placed his hand inside my blouse...
speaker2: ... i was so frightened i didn't move. i thought if i was just quiet it would be okay...
speaker2: ... then his other hand went up under -- inside my skirt...
speaker2: ... his hand then, it started, he started, moving back and forth -- farther and farther inside my skirt...
speaker2: ... he said he was testing to see if i had any special feelings, that he wanted to find out what kind of feelings i had...

speaker1: ... i didn't know what to say, i was trying to think of something to say but i was confused and he just kept on -- with his hand -- moving it -- under my dress -- higher and higher... 
speaker1: ... then i, i was asking him to stop but it was like he couldn't hear me -- he just kept on -- suddenly, gettys' hand stops moving --
speaker1: -- and then i screamed...
speaker1: ... then he, he got mad and said we would have to try again sometime.
speaker2: and did he try again?
speaker1: not with me.
speaker2: with friends of yours?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and when you told them what he had done to you, they told you what he had done to them, isn't that true?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i have nothing further.

speaker1: your witness, mr. lomax. 
speaker2: any chance, your honor, for a short recess?

speaker1: lloyd, as your attorney, i'm advising you to get the away from me. 
speaker2: why? what are you talking about?
speaker1: the wife. the kid. the outrage.
speaker2: you're my lawyer! you're here to defend me!
speaker1: you know what i'm thinking? why don't we put you on the stand and you can jerk off for the judge.
speaker2: you know she's lying.
speaker1: get the out of my way.

speaker1: well, hell, there you are. rumor was you were out wandering in traffic. 
speaker2: not now, larry.
speaker1: what's the game plan, kevin? i got a four-thirty deadline. i need a quote. gimme a quote.
speaker2: off.
speaker1: 'mr. lomax had no comment on today's events. speculation, however, was widespread that the young lawyer's unblemished string of victories would come to an end in this courtroom.'
speaker1: it was a nice run, kev. had to close out someday. nobody wins 'em all.

speaker1: math hasn't exactly been your subject this year, has it? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: any theories on why you've done so poorly in math this year?
speaker2: it's not my fault.
speaker1: would you say mr. gettys is the problem? you're not sure. have you had any discipline problems in math class this year?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no? isn't it true mr. gettys has had to talk to you repeatedly about your behavior? isn't that why he asked you to stay after class?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: have other teachers ever asked you to stay after class?
speaker2: once or twice.
speaker1: did they want to talk about your behavior?
speaker3: objection. immaterial.
speaker1: goes to motive.

speaker1: overruled. you may answer the question. 
speaker2: i don't know what the other teachers wanted. you'd have to talk to them.
speaker3: you ever pass notes in class, barbara? maybe a note that made fun of mr. gettys?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: no? never called him a 'disgusting pig monster'?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: your honor, i've pre-marked this defense exhibit a...
speaker4: objection, your honor, we've had plenty of time for discovery here.
speaker1: i'm gonna let this in, mr. lomax, i'm also gonna suggest that if you have any other exhibits you present in a timely fashion or not at all.
speaker3: i'm sorry, barbara, i was wrong, it's 'huge hog beast'. this is your handwriting, isn't it?
speaker2: yes, but --

speaker1: you wrote this in his class. 
speaker2: it's a joke.
speaker1: 'he's a huge hog beast. he probably eats a thousand pancakes for breakfast.' you're writing here about mr. gettys, aren't you?
speaker2: it was meant to be a joke.
speaker1: have you ever had a party at your house when your parents were away? yes or no?
speaker3: objection. this is way out of...
speaker1: credibility and bias.
speaker4: overruled. answer the question.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: the word special came up in your testimony earlier. you claimed that mr. gettys asked you whether you had special feelings, if you felt special. have you ever heard of a game called 'special places?' you're under oath, barbara. a man's career -- his reputation -- his life is on the line. this is not a joke. have you ever played the game special places?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: is this game sexual in nature? is this game sexual in nature? 
speaker2: we only played it once.
speaker1: this special party, barbara, this was the first time you told the story about mr. gettys.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i've spoken to the other children who were there that day. can you think of anything else, barbara, they might have told me about that party?
speaker3: objection. your honor, if he has other witnesses let him call them.
speaker1: if i need to call those other children, i will.
speaker4: i'm gonna sustain that, mr. lomax.
speaker1: you threatened those children, didn't you?
speaker2: that's not the way it happened --
speaker1: you told them to falsely claim that mr. gettys had hurt them, didn't you?
speaker2: these things did happen!

speaker1: because if they didn't go along you were going to tell everyone about this special party. 
speaker2: they happened to me.
speaker1: so you made up a story. a special story, about a math teacher -- a disgusting pig monster -- you didn't like. that's what really happened, isn't it?
speaker2: i didn't want to be the only one!
speaker3: you son of a
speaker1: i have no further questions, your honor.

speaker1: in the event we all get drunk and forget, i suggest we frontload the ceremonial to the best trial lawyer in alachua county. 
speaker2: so, kev, off the record, how's it feel to squeeze a man like gettys through the door of reasonable doubt?
speaker3: no. i told you already, we're not gonna discuss that case anymore. done. am i right?
speaker4: i'll drink to that. no shop talk.

speaker1: mr. lomax? 
speaker1: helluva job today. i didn't want to disturb your party.
speaker2: milton, chadwick, waters. never heard of it. what're you gonna do? sue me?
speaker1: actually, we were hoping to retain your services. we've been following your progress.
speaker2: from new york.
speaker1: you've never lost a case.
speaker2: i've had some sympathetic juries.
speaker1: that's exactly what we're looking for. we want you to come to new york. help us pick a jury.
speaker2: really. i'll tell you, man. you're pretty good. and the card is great. and the black thing -- you being black -- whose idea was that? paul's? 'cause that's just brilliant. i'm just not drunk enough yet to fall for it.

speaker1: it's two weeks at most. 
speaker2: you've never been to new york.

speaker1: every dog gets a day. 
speaker2: pick a jury... i feel the hand of mary ann on this adventure.
speaker1: mom.
speaker2: new york is not a good idea.
speaker1: look, how you fixed for cash?
speaker2: i have my bad feeling.
speaker1: i put a couple hundred in here...
speaker2: sounds like more than two weeks.
speaker1: mary ann typed out the numbers for you -- phone, the flights -- it's all in there.
speaker2: let me tell you about new york.
speaker1: babylon.
speaker2: forewarned is forearmed. 'fallen, fallen is babylon the great. it has become a dwelling place of demons.' revelation eighteen. wouldn't hurt you to look it over.
speaker1: couldn't forget it if i tried.

speaker1: and what happened to babylon? 
speaker2: 'thou mighty city. in one hour hast thou mighty judgement come.'
speaker1: 'and the light of a single lamp shall shine in thee no more.'

speaker1: -- wait -- leave 'em off -- 
speaker2: -- what are you... i can't --
speaker1: -- close your eyes -- do it --
speaker1: okay. stop.

speaker1: okay. open your eyes. 
speaker2: wow.

speaker1: 'go ahead...' '... bite the big apple.' 
speaker2: '... rats on the west side, bed bugs uptown, i can't give it away on seventh avenue. this town don't look good in tatters...'
speaker1: i don't know... looks to me like that dress is in your way.
speaker2: why, counselor... surely you don't think a small- town girl changes overnight just because a man buys her dinner in the big city.
speaker1: no, ma'am. in fact, i hardly ever think at all.
speaker2: well, that's different, then. you're my kind of guy.

speaker1: do you think as a juror you'd be able to set aside any prior opinions you might hold about the savings and loan industry? that was a question, sir. 
speaker2: what? do i like bankers?
speaker1: your honor, may i have a minute to speak with my colleagues.

speaker1: dump him. while you're at it let's get rid of number six, eight, and i'd say lose number twelve, except the prosecutor's gonna up and do it for us. 
speaker2: number six? you're kidding, right? she's my first choice.
speaker1: she's my first pass.
speaker2: and eight? with the dreadlocks? that's crazy. he's a defendant juror if i ever saw one.
speaker1: you see his shoes?
speaker2: look, kid, maybe down in florida you're the next big thing, but this is new york. manhattan.

speaker1: he polishes those shoes every night. he makes his own clothes. he may look like a brother-with- an-attitude to you, but i see a man who's got a shotgun under his bed and woe betide the creature who steps into his garden. and number six? your favorite? 
speaker2: she's a catholic schoolteacher. she believes in human frailty.
speaker1: no. there's something missing from her. she's wrong. she wants on this jury. somebody hurt her and she wants revenge.
speaker2: how the do you know that?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: look, either you put a stop to this happy horseshit or i walk.
speaker3: walk.
speaker2: all right. here's the deal. i lose with your jury? you do the explaining.

speaker1: your mother called. she has her bad feeling. 
speaker2: every now and then she gets one right.
speaker1: what's up? you okay? something's up.
speaker2: they deliberated for thirty-eight minutes.
speaker1: oh

speaker1: oh, kevin... i'm sorry, honey. what the did they expect? the man is guilty as can be. wasn't a jury anywhere gonna let him off. 
speaker2: yeah. except one.
speaker1: kev....
speaker2: not guilty.
speaker1: omigod...
speaker2: thirty-eight minutes. my jury.
speaker1: you did it! omigod, kevin...
speaker2: put on something that's gonna be easy to take off later. we are going out, girl!

speaker1: we've got forty partners vested at the moment. close to six hundred associates. this is the home office, but we've got quite a few international arrangements, so mr. milton spends a good deal of his time in the air. in addition to our corporate clients, we're currently representing about twenty-five foreign countries. mid-east, balkans, central america, west africa. interesting work, but travel intensive. 
speaker1: he's got you scheduled for fifteen minutes, which is a good sign, so make the most of it...

speaker1: i watched a senator his pants right where you're standing. 
speaker2: great.
speaker1: he's waiting for you. good luck.

speaker1: behind you. 
speaker1: sorry. didn't mean to...
speaker2: no. please. kevin lomax.
speaker1: john milton.
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker1: have we been treating you well?
speaker2: very well. thank you.

speaker1: your wife, she's had a good time? 
speaker2: she sure has. it's been great.
speaker1: good. that's our secret. we kill you with kindness. what's your secret?
speaker2: i couldn't say.
speaker1: you were a prosecutor.
speaker2: out of law school. five years in the jacksonville d.a.'s office.
speaker1: sixty-four straight convictions.
speaker2: i like to be in court. i didn't plea out a lot.
speaker1: what's that like? one day you're putting them away and the next you're setting them free?
speaker2: takes a little getting used to.
speaker1: pays better though, doesn't it?
speaker2: yes it does.
speaker1: the math teacher. the gettys case. i hear you were brilliant.
speaker2: prosecutor dropped the ball.

speaker1: really. so you think your guy was guilty. 
speaker2: i didn't say that.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: how's this? i began the case with a clear conscience.
speaker1: i was sure you had a secret.
speaker2: the men's room. upstairs men's room in the duval county courthouse. there's a hole in the wall. straight through to the next room. i spent five years listening to juries deliberate.
speaker1: i love it.
speaker2: love it all you want, just don't repeat it. i'm not sure the florida bar association would appreciate it.
speaker1: you don't really want to go back to florida, do you? walk with me.

speaker1: what do you think? some people can't handle it. 
speaker2: it's peaceful.
speaker1: exactly. fill in the resume. tell me about your family. what does your father do?
speaker2: i never got to know my father. he passed away before i was born. my mom raised me. just the two of us.
speaker1: she never remarried?
speaker2: she wasn't married the first time.
speaker1: that can't be easy in gainesville.
speaker2: i don't think it's easy anywhere. holy
speaker1: little different when you're looking down, isn't it? tell me about her. your mother.
speaker2: she's a preacher's daughter. she's tough. she's worked in the same poultry plant for as long as i can remember. i think she's up to eight-fifty an hour. she's got a church she really likes, so she's usually either there or they go out, they do a lot of volunteer work.

speaker1: 'many are in high places, and of great renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek.' 
speaker2: so they say.
speaker1: didn't rub off on you? the book?
speaker2: i'm on parole. early release for time served. suddenly they're quiet. silenced by the view.
speaker1: lotta potential clients down there.
speaker2: you don't have to sell me on new york.
speaker1: you like it here, don't you?
speaker2: are we negotiating?
speaker1: always.
speaker2: why do you need a criminal department?
speaker1: because our clients break the law just like everyone else and i'm tired of sending their business across the street.
speaker2: are you offering me a job?
speaker1: i'm thinking about it. you have the talent. i knew that before you got here. it's the other thing i wonder about.

speaker1: what thing is that? 
speaker2: pressure. changes everything. some people, you squeeze them, they focus. some people fold. can you summon your talent at will? can you deliver on deadline? can you sleep at night?
speaker1: when do we talk about money?
speaker2: money's the easy part.

speaker1: you must be mary ann -- welcome. 
speaker2: it's so sweet of you to come by.
speaker1: please. we live across the hall.
speaker2: you're kidding?
speaker3: right here.
speaker4: so it's just two apartments per floor?
speaker1: you didn't tell them about the apartment?

speaker1: it's what they call a classic eight. 
speaker2: we had them paint everything white. let you see it naked before you pick your palette.
speaker3: what am i picking?
speaker2: palette. your colors.
speaker1: i need to warn you about one thing. there are going to be some very envious people at the firm. these apartments, there aren't many of them, it's really a partner's perk. you must've made quite an impression.
speaker2: took us six years to get in here.

speaker1: i sure as hope so. 
speaker2: they must want you pretty bad.
speaker1: look, mare, i'm only getting behind this if you're on board.
speaker2: sure. let's go back to gainesville. you can keep scrounging for clients and pumping out the basement and i'll keep repossessing cars for akamian. maybe, if we kill ourselves, in about five years we can afford a baby and a weekend shack at gulf shores. are you me?

speaker1: krasna. maritime law. 
speaker2: parvathi resh. energy law. i run the islamic sub-group.
speaker3: joyce rensaleer. mergers and acquisitions.
speaker4: chan sanyou. intellectual property.
speaker5: eddie barzoon. managing director.

speaker1: christabella adrioli. economics. 
speaker2: there you go, kevin. the whole team. i'm trying to think how long it's been since we were all together. all of us. too long. i'm looking around, i know some of you came from very far away to be with us here today. it's appreciated. this room we're in was built -- architecturally designed -- to promote healthy group dynamics. a psychic centrifuge. makes you want to reach out, doesn't it? inclusion. commonality. synergy. all that good that's what i'm looking for today. because when i hear stories -- the kind of stories i've been hearing -- about backbiting, about partners not working together, departments cutting each other's throats over clients, or worse... i feel drained. it drains me. i feel empty. i feel as though i've let you all down. we need something. a gesture. what do i need, eddie?
speaker3: how about a public flogging?
speaker2: wait a minute. i got it. it's perfect. it's intimate. it's quick. doesn't cost a thing. there's a power to it. what is it? let's hold hands. all of us. together.

speaker1: right now. every person at this table -- take the hand of the person on either side... 
speaker1: you want out of this, eddie?
speaker2: you've made your point, john.
speaker1: you won't hold hands? it's important to me, eddie.
speaker1: see. see, i feel better already.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: i guess it'll do.
speaker3: until something better comes along...
speaker1: kevin lomax. pam garrety.

speaker1: pam was with the brooklyn d.a.'s office for fourteen years, so she knows her way around the local scene. she'll be your guide. you're gonna be expediting his new york bar application, right? 
speaker2: in the pipeline. for now, we'll just have you work pro hac vice. we've petitioned florida for a letter of good conduct. and... ... i prepared, at mr. milton's request, an overview of the moyez case.
speaker3: the moyez case?

speaker1: you get 'em! go get 'em, man! 
speaker1: tell her turn that down! i know what she's doin'! that's right! tell 'em take that noise back t'africa 'fore i --
speaker2: i'm looking for phillipe moyez.

speaker1: i called this morning, i'm not sure who i spoke with. i'm his lawyer. i have a card... they said he would meet me here. 
speaker2: bhalla! bhalla!

speaker1: look, i'm not sure i'm making myself clear here. 
speaker2: moyez. you need him. speak wid him.

speaker1: you're saying he's down here? in the basement? in the dark? 
speaker2: where? where you think -- ?

speaker1: mr. moyez? we've never met. i'm a lawyer. 
speaker2: as you wish.
speaker1: i'll be arguing your case with the city. i need to ask you some questions. i've done a little preliminary research -- precedent -- cases in the past that dealt with santeria and vou--
speaker2: no. this is not santeria. we are not voodoo. candomble. obeayisne. none of that. we are much older. before. before all of it.
speaker1: okay. is there a name? or...
speaker2: we have papers. at your firm. we have the tax exemption.
speaker1: okay. i'll get right into that. the animals. let's start with that, then.
speaker2: we have an investment in blood. think of it as spiritual currency.
speaker1: look, mr. moyez, i'm going to need your help with this.

speaker1: yes. that's very clear. 
speaker2: perhaps we could start at the beginning?
speaker2: mr. moyez?
speaker1: what is the name of the man who will prosecute us?
speaker2: merto. assistant district attorney arnold merto.
speaker1: bhalla. la chemise noire. vite!
speaker2: what are you doing, mr. moyez?
speaker1: you can go now. you will have all the help i can give you.

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: it's a health code case. and it's a loser. so what's the point? it's a test, right?
speaker1: isn't everything?
speaker2: the smart thing to do is make a deal. plea him out and suppress the tape.
speaker1: i'm sure the d.a.'s waiting for your call.
speaker2: yeah, well, let him wait. and you can tell milton too. i didn't come to new york to plea bargain.

speaker1: it's certainly not a religious practice performed by everyone. it's not as common as, say, circumcision. it's certainly not as common as the belief that wine is transformed into blood. it's not even as common as the handling of poisonous snakes to prove one's faith. but phillipe moyez isn't two thousand miles away in a stockyard. he doesn't use electricity to kill. and worst of all... phillipe moyez is not shrink- wrapped. 
speaker1: your honor, the city timed this police action to catch my client exercising his constitutionally- protected right to religious freedom.
speaker2: this is a law protecting kosher butchering.
speaker1: exactly, your honor. and i'd like to move at this time for an immediate directed verdict for dismissal.
speaker2: i happen to know a little bit about kashrut law, mr. lomax.

speaker1: i'm aware of that, your honor, which is why i feel confident in requesting a dismissal. 
speaker2: mr. merto?

speaker1: bravo, kevin. bravo. pamela, you're looking lovely. satisfied, phillipe? 
speaker2: always.
speaker1: kevin, what can i say? outstanding.

speaker1: guy like moyez living in that subterranean shithole all the time he's running around with fifteen million dollars in the bank. 
speaker2: you gotta be kidding.
speaker1: what do you think? we're giving you away? he's paying us in goat's blood? i'm billing you out at four-hundred an hour, my friend. i don't see a whole lot of pro bono work in your immediate future. seriously, what i like, you got in there with him. inside the cage. that's instinct. can't be taught. you gotta hear that on your own. it's gotta be in your blood. it's molecular. i bet i've got five thousand lawyers working around the planet. i couldn't name ten -- couldn't name three -- i'd trust with moyez.
speaker2: so what the are they doing?
speaker1: what are they doing? they're corporate lawyers, what do you think they're doing? they're busy reducing life and death to the proper position of a semi- colon. they're doing needlepoint. push button battles. push button wars. armies that get so far away from each other they need satellites to tell them who won. no pain. no sound. no smell. one big, multinational circle jerk. you, on the other hand, you're on the slaughterhouse floor. you can't help but smell your clients.
speaker2: i figure you came to court to make sure i didn't this up.

speaker1: maybe i did. but don't get too cocky. no matter how good you are. don't let them see you coming. that's the gaff, my friend -- make yourself small. be the hick. the cripple. the nerd. the leper. the shit- kicking surfer. look at me -- i've been underestimated from day one. do i look like a master of the universe? that's your only weakness as far as i can tell. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: the look. the florida stud thing. 'scuse me, ma'am, did i leave my boots under your bed?'
speaker2: never worked a jury didn't have a woman.
speaker1: you know what you're missing? what i have? this beautiful girl she's just me every way she knows how -- we're done -- she's walking to the bathroom -- she turns back -- and there i am. it's me. and she smiles -- it's like a veil coming down across her face -- and that smile, that's a question mark, because she's looking at me, she's wondering, how did that happen? and see, right there, from that moment on, she's got a secret. i'm the hand up mona lisa's skirt. i'm the whisper in nefertitti's ear. i'm a surprise. they never see me coming. that's what you're missing.
speaker2: so why did you come down today?

speaker1: because i knew it was gonna be good. because i knew i was gonna like it. that you would shine -- that we would take this walk -- that we'd really talk. why i came down? you want the truth? i'm an aging, hipster plutocrat. i came up from nothing. from dirt. i'm warming my hands on your talent -- where's the chicken? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: where's the chicken? the chicken that plays tic-tac-toe. he used to be right here.
speaker3: no, you passed it. back that way.
speaker1: there's a chicken, he's famous, he plays tic-tac-toe. he never loses. hey. like you. right? look, i'm rambling because i'm excited. you're in the part of the game i like best. the realm of the true believers. you are a believer, aren't you?
speaker2: i believe in the presumption of innocence.
speaker1: better a hundred guilty men go free than a single innocent be executed.

speaker1: something like that. 
speaker2: no. exactly like that. it's faith. you're either in or out.
speaker1: i was kidding.
speaker2: you're not here to amuse me. see, that's why people hate lawyers. so many of us have lost our faith. don't let that happen to you.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: learn the subways, kevin. use them. stay in the trenches.

speaker1: mare... mare...? 
speaker2: you're late...

speaker1: what's all this? 
speaker2: all what?
speaker2: oh, that... it was gonna be a nursery, but then i remembered you'd have to be home long enough to knock me up, so now i'm thinking of building a law library.
speaker2: save the thought. we were due up there fifteen minutes ago.

speaker1: tell me i can handle this. 
speaker2: you can handle this.
speaker1: say something nice.
speaker2: something nice.
speaker1: promise me you won't leave me alone in there.

speaker1: promise. 
speaker2: how the did we get here?
speaker1: instinct.

speaker1: i love the eights. the entire 'a' line -- such a great shell. i do. i envy you. starting from scratch. do you have your fabrics yet? tell me you don't. 
speaker2: not yet. i don't think so.
speaker1: come with me. instantly. i'm borrowing your wife...
speaker3: be gentle, honey. these are normal people.
speaker3: your first?
speaker4: excuse me?
speaker3: is this your first marriage?

speaker1: who is that? 
speaker2: my girl...
speaker3: you haven't met him yet?
speaker1: who is he?

speaker1: i swear he can hear us. 
speaker2: hell, he can smell us.
speaker3: mary ann? john milton... i was hoping we'd meet tonight. and here you are, already swimming with the sharks.

speaker1: deadbeats. i mean, that's what it comes down to. you can call yourself a finance trainee, or a financial resources adviser, or whatever, you're still spending most of your day trying to hammer car payments out of deadbeats. no deadbeats here tonight. 
speaker2: you'd be surprised. there's a lot more fear in this room than you'd think.
speaker1: what do these people have to be afraid of?
speaker2: each other. themselves. why?
speaker1: not knowing who the deadbeats are.
speaker2: you'll figure that out. there's only one thing worth being frightened of anyway, and that's being alone. truly and finally alone.
speaker1: yes. i think you're right.
speaker2: you know what terrifies me?
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: for what. for you. let's be honest, i've changed your life. changed it forever. there's been a seismic shift in your existence and i'm responsible. and you've never even met me. we're talking for the very first time. how insane is that?

speaker1: it's a wonderful opportunity for kevin. 
speaker2: kevin. please. i'm not worried about kevin. he buys a few new suits. learns a few new tricks. he's there. i don't worry about kevin. what about you?
speaker1: i'm not leaving a lot behind.
speaker2: you must have family.
speaker1: bad subject. i haven't spoken to my folks in a long time. my sister ran all the way to germany.
speaker2: whoaa... i gotta think about that. i had you down as daddy's little girl, you know? the princess. sugar plum snapshots. pastel bedspreads. cinnamon cookies.
speaker1: i tell kevin the only thing worse than not having a father was having mine.
speaker2: so you've got a lot at stake here.
speaker1: i guess i have.
speaker2: it's not gonna be like gainesville, but then you know that already.
speaker1: we're gonna be fine. it's gonna be great.

speaker1: if it isn't, will you come to me? let me help? i'd feel a lot less responsible. will you do that for me? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: the worst vice is advice, right? but can i make a suggestion? it's about your hair, some people are sensitive, that's why i ask.
speaker2: no. i mean, go ahead. you don't like it?
speaker1: you have shoulders nobody can see.
speaker2: you mean, you want me to pull my hair back?
speaker1: if i do it, everyone in this room that's pretending not to watch us will assume we're or something. pull back your hair. take a look. see. that's it. isn't that incredible? you need to cut your hair.
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker1: a woman's shoulders are the frontlines of her mystique. and her neck, if she's alive, has the very mystery of a border town. it's the no man's land in the battle between mind and body. you know, your natural color would really bring out your eyes...

speaker1: do you have this view? 
speaker2: sorry?
speaker1: from your terrace, is this your view?
speaker2: sort of. not exactly. i'm about twelve floors down. what about you?
speaker1: no, i live downtown. this is the family building.
speaker2: sounds like fun. downtown, i mean. i'm just getting to know the city.
speaker1: is it everything you expected?
speaker2: more.
speaker1: may we always have more than we expect. salute.
speaker2: amen.
speaker1: are you alone?
speaker2: you mean, tonight?
speaker1: is your wife a jealous woman? silly question. we're all jealous, aren't we?

speaker1: oh, dear, i'm going to scare you away. 
speaker2: i doubt it.
speaker1: you like to be on top, don't you?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: of the situation. you prefer to be on top.
speaker2: depends on the view.
speaker3: you know what i see?
speaker3: i see the future of this law firm. christabella, cara, prestamelo per favore, pe lo riporto piu tardi.
speaker1: it's a boring party, anyway. ciao.
speaker3: look, we gotta talk. you grab heath and eddie barzoon and get up to my place right away. and let's be quiet about it.

speaker1: sorry... i'm looking for my husband. 
speaker2: don't think he's here.
speaker3: it's just us...
speaker4: but feel free to join in...
speaker4: devil's advocate - rev. 11/2/96 55.

speaker1: is there more to it? 
speaker2: just this room.
speaker1: and a bedroom?
speaker2: no bedroom.
speaker1: where does he sleep?
speaker3: who said he sleeps?
speaker1: where does he
speaker4: everywhere.
speaker2: what's up, john?
speaker4: how many hours did we bill alex cullen last year?
speaker3: sixteen thousand, two hundred and forty-two.

speaker1: what the did he do now? 
speaker2: alex cullen has just been charged with murdering his ex- wife, her stepson, and a maid.
speaker1: when did this happen?
speaker2: just now. tonight. i already sent pam downtown to make bail arrangements.

speaker1: they'll crucify him. they'll get in line. i gotta call meisel... 
speaker2: no. i want kevin on this case.
speaker1: i hope you're kidding. alexander cullen in a manhattan triple murder? with kevin?
speaker2: i've shaken hands with every marquee defense attorney in town. i take kevin and i don't look back.
speaker1: you're a great judge of talent, john. you're the master. i just don't see it coming together.
speaker2: i want you on board, eddie.
speaker3: look, i appreciate the vote of confidence, but maybe eddie's got a point here.
speaker2: we can get this case. the man's our client.
speaker1: he's a business client.
speaker2: we know him better than he knows himself. we have the inside track. we have the best trial lawyer in the city. it's ours to lose.
speaker1: tell it to cullen.
speaker2: no. that's up to kevin.

speaker1: you left me there. i had a panic attack until jackie told me where you were. three hours? you don't even call? 
speaker2: stop. reset. i'm upstairs, i'm with milton and barzoon and there is a very good possibility that i'm about to catch a triple homicide defendant who also happens to be the largest real estate developer in the city. i had to bail on the party!
speaker1: you bailed on me!
speaker2: mare... did you hear me?
speaker1: i was all by myself!
speaker2: for three whole hours... you gotta be kidding, right? no, she's leaving. kevin left there, alone --

speaker1: ... you may be right, but look at it from my point of view. i'm sure he's a whiz kid. i believe you. but this is my we're talking. eddie... 
speaker2: alex, you know how this town works. you've got enemies you never heard of. and now? now you're down? i'd prepare for a class-a, new york pig-fuck. you're going to have to ask yourself who you really trust.

speaker1: i don't know... i gotta look around. 
speaker2: you don't have time to shop, mr. cullen. jury selection started this morning at every breakfast table in the city. you lost round one. this is what people know. they know you and your wife were living separately. they see this maid -- elucinda -- a sixty-eight-year-old grandmother supporting seven children. and then there's your stepson, a ten-year-old with a bullet in his brain. those are already powerful images in the mind of the public.
speaker1: i didn't kill anybody.
speaker2: i'm telling you how it looks. you discover the crime. you call it in. you've got blood on your person and clothes, and -- -- and -- your prints are on the murder weapon.
speaker1: how do you know that?
speaker2: there's a second print in blood -- it's a partial of a hand -- on the wall next to th--
speaker1: i have keys! i called the cops from the house! i touched the wall! i was panicked! i panicked!
speaker2: we need twelve people who can see past all that. i'd get out in front of this fast.

speaker1: i panicked! is that a crime? i touched the wall! 
speaker2: he's right, alex. people need to hear these things.
speaker3: you're not happy tomorrow? the next day? we'll move over. but right now -- this moment -- you need immediate representation.
speaker1: i've got a fourteen-year-old stepdaughter who i care more about than anything in the world. they won't let me call her from downtown. they won't let me talk to her after i'm out. i gotta go deal with that first.
speaker3: we need to issue a statement.
speaker4: he's a winner, alex. and they'll never see him coming.
speaker1: i'm gonna make some very tough phone calls. then i'm gonna take a pill and try to get some sleep. my place. eight a.m. tomorrow. alone. and you better be every inch as good as you think you are.

speaker1: this is three thousand dollars. 
speaker2: know what you need to do? buy it. wear it once. and then throw it away. that'll loosen you up.
speaker3: i say spend it all. if you're never gonna see your husband, you might as well have a relationship with his money. i swear, if he wasn't afraid of me shooting my mouth off, eddie would've put a cellulite clause in the pre-nup.
speaker2: dr. robert, i'm telling you, he's the miracle man. you've seen my new tits, i mean who does it better than that?
speaker3: it's not my i'm worried about.
speaker2: real or not? they look real... they move real...
speaker1: must be real.
speaker2: feel them. go ahead. that's the ultimate test.

speaker1: feel real? 
speaker2: yes. absolutely. real.

speaker1: ... first thing -- i need this asap -- i want articles, clippings, tv interviews, i want everything you can get on alex cullen. 
speaker2: you better get a semi truck.

speaker1: enjoying yourself? 
speaker2: sorry. i'm just...
speaker1: just what? looking?
speaker2: guilty.
speaker1: congratulations on cullen.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: what an incredible situation, even if you lose you become a star.
speaker2: what if i win?
speaker1: if you win... if you win it's everything.
speaker2: any advice?
speaker1: cullen is a pig. he's a pig beyond reasonable doubt. i suggest you keep him as far away from the jury as possible.
speaker2: i'll keep it in mind.
speaker1: you can look all you want, but i don't married men.
speaker2: what a relief. i was starting to think you were perfect.

speaker1: kevin... 
speaker1: your wife is on the phone. she sounds upset...

speaker1: i don't care if they can hear me! i don't care! i don't like it here. and these women, my i mean, i'm seeing things for crissake! 
speaker2: you just left them in the store?
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: look, calm down, all right? listen to me... mare? first, you do this radical thing with your hair...
speaker1: you hate it.
speaker2: stop. i think it's fine. but i also think it's traumatic. you've got the pressure of fitting in with new friends, a new place... add three bottles of wine and --
speaker1: no! it wasn't the wine. it wasn't the wine or my hair or talking to kathy, because i know that's what you're gonna say --

speaker1: what about kathy? 
speaker2: what about her? she's pregnant again.
speaker1: oh, and that's got nothing to do with it...
speaker2: kevin, i never see you anymore. now that you've got this big case, it's just only gonna get worse. i don't know anybody here. these women scare the living out of me. if you can believe it, i'm actually looking forward to having your mother come and visit.
speaker1: what about the apartment?
speaker2: exactly! you just go out -- you buy a few new suits and you're fine. i've got this whole place to fill up and i know we have all this money and it's supposed to be fun, but it isn't! it's like a test! the whole thing is like one big test! i'm lonely.
speaker1: let's make a baby.
speaker2: don't tease me.
speaker1: i wouldn't do that. unless you asked.
speaker2: you hate my hair, don't you?

speaker1: stop. 
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: right here.

speaker1: i don't know why i picked it up -- it was before i saw elucinda's body and then, i mean we've been over this... 
speaker2: you kneeled down to pick it up?
speaker1: you work late. you come home. you walk in. everybody's dead.
speaker2: back up. two prints by the gun. right knee. right hand. it's a strange move you must've made to pick it up.
speaker1: the blood, i don't know, maybe i was trying to avoid the blood.
speaker2: i'm trying to picture it... your hand came from inside and underneath.
speaker1: you want to see? here... i'll show you.
speaker1: okay? clear? got it?
speaker2: whose gun is that, alex?
speaker1: it's mine.

speaker1: are you out of your mind? you're charged in a triple homicide, you're walking around with a forty-five? 
speaker2: i've had nine death threats.
speaker1: give it over. now. gimme the gun.
speaker2: i gotta protect myself.
speaker1: that's my job. when the case is over you can have it back. this is a dealbreaker, alex.
speaker1: okay. let's wrap it up.
speaker2: so what's next?
speaker1: we need to talk to your assistant.
speaker2: call her.
speaker1: you feel confident she'll back you on the time.
speaker2: melissa, yeah. she's okay. she's a real straight arrow.
speaker1: so we're going to talk to her and you're not going to talk to anybody. okay?
speaker2: no comment.

speaker1: would my babysitter have to testify? 
speaker2: we need her to establish the time you returned home.
speaker1: she doesn't have her green card is why i ask. i don't want her to get in trouble.

speaker1: tell you what, melissa, let's talk to her first. see where she stands and take it from there. 
speaker2: i'll make sure melissa gets down to the car.
speaker3: mr. cullen didn't kill those people.
speaker1: that's why we're all working so hard.

speaker1: okay, excelsior insurance, who's handling that? all this has to go. guatemala, sudan, cyprus... let's stay organized here. martin, no. devada holdings. that's all you're doing. believe me, it'll take all night. 
speaker2: i thought i was the only one working late.
speaker1: so did we.

speaker1: good news. we just wrapped up with cullen's assistant. she looks like a great alibi. 
speaker2: what a pleasant surprise.
speaker1: but it looks like you have your hands full.
speaker2: just a little housekeeping. if they ask, you never saw this.
speaker1: who would ask?
speaker2: weaver.
speaker1: who's that?
speaker2: justice department. weaver commission. you don't know about weaver?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: how nice for you.
speaker3: grab your coat, mr. lomax...
speaker3: the night is young. title fight. ringside.
speaker1: i'd have to call mary ann...
speaker3: do it on the way.

speaker1: you get my message? 
speaker2: you write beautifully, eddie.
speaker1: we need to talk.
speaker2: soon.
speaker1: i hope so.

speaker1: so what's this weaver commission? 
speaker2: i don't micro-manage. you find the talent and then you delegate. who knows what the eddie's up to. he's got a lotta fingers in a lotta pies.
speaker3: what the you looking at? you deaf or something?
speaker2: no. i can hear you just fine.
speaker3: good, 'cause i want you should get your skinny little somewhere down the car away from me.

speaker1: i'm not going anywhere. 
speaker2: oh, john...
speaker1: maricela, the moment you left the apartment she was upstairs with carlos. they're on the pipe right now, my friend. they're in the kitchen splitting a jumbo and then he's going to her in the ass, right on your bed, and she's going to like it.
speaker3: como...? how do you...?
speaker2: what did you say to him?
speaker1: i told him if he didn't leave us alone, you were going to kick all three of their asses.

speaker1: look at this sorry you got better seats than me. 
speaker2: you need a better lawyer.
speaker1: nobody better than you, johnny.
speaker2: hang on a second... meet my new heavyweight. kevin lomax.

speaker1: and say what? he's the senior partner at the -- mare, you're really starting to me off -- yes. i'm having one cigarette. you want me to lie? one cigarette after seven months is not -- that's exactly what i'm saying. go to bed. i have no idea. i told you, he never sleeps. mare. stop. the guy pays our bills. the food, the heat, the rent on that enormous apartment we live in. i live there, too! 
speaker2: can i help you?

speaker1: you poor thing... 
speaker1: how did you... how did you get here? are you okay? look at you... hello... hello... where's your mommy?

speaker1: what are you playing with? what do you have there? the baby offers his open hands -- 
speaker1: ... oh, no...
speaker1: ... no... please, no --

speaker1: took two seconals to get her out. 
speaker2: milton got his hooks into me.
speaker3: relax. we've all been there.
speaker1: leave her with me. let her sleep. she'll be out another five, six hours at least.

speaker1: this transition, it's been really tough on her... 
speaker2: we're gonna find some names for you. doctors. good people.

speaker1: caught me. 
speaker2: i've gotta find cullen. we just got the prosecution discovery package.
speaker1: that bad?

speaker1: careful... you'll spoil me for other men. 
speaker2: that's what they all say.

speaker1: i get one supervised hour a week with my stepdaughter. this is it. you better have a great reason to call me out. 
speaker2: your wife, the day she was killed, had lunch with a friend. she says and i quote: 'alex is around and i can prove it.'
speaker1: hearsay. never gets in.
speaker2: wrong answer. your prenuptial agreement is on file at the firm. the contract is null and void in the event of marital infidelity. you around, she gets rich. that's a motive, alex. what do i need to know?
speaker1: melissa. my assistant. she's not even that good a

speaker1: and, on the night in question? 
speaker2: i was boning my assistant while my wife was getting shot.
speaker1: i've got to re-interview melissa.
speaker2: forget it. we're not telling that story.
speaker1: juries want honesty. with that at your peril.
speaker2: allesandra. wait...
speaker1: arthur...
speaker2: not now.
speaker3: time's up, mr. cullen.
speaker2: allesandra. please...

speaker1: kevin, hey, how's it going? can we get a couple shots here? how about a thumbs-up here? what do you say? 
speaker2: what's he doing?
speaker3: kevin's had his picture in the paper.
speaker4: welcome to babylon, ma.
speaker5: sorry, mr. lomax, i thought we'd scared 'em all away...
speaker2: always did like to stick his nose in a camera.

speaker1: and how are you, mrs. lomax? did you have a fine dinner? 
speaker2: i surely did. are you hungry?
speaker1: no, i'm fine. thank you.
speaker3: speak of the devil...

speaker1: i was just telling the moyez story. 
speaker2: really.
speaker1: and is this your mother?
speaker2: yes. mom, this is...
speaker1: john milton. nice to meet you.
speaker3: alice lomax. how do you do?
speaker1: mary ann... i think you've met christabella, and this is giselle who's just in from paris. a moment of superficial greetings and then -- the elevator doors opening and the whole uncomfortable clot of them moving into --
speaker2: thanks for the champagne.
speaker1: you've very welcome. this isn't really your first visit to new york, is it?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: cette femme, elle est la mere de l'homme dont vous m'avez parle? 
speaker2: she can't believe you're his mother. you've done one helluva job bringing him up, mrs. lomax.
speaker3: no.
speaker4: nice to see you...
speaker5: have a lovely evening.
speaker6: mom, we're here...
speaker3: yes. good night to you.
speaker2: kevin, hang on... how's cullen. everything on beam?
speaker6: that's a long conversation.
speaker2: why don't you come on up?
speaker6: now?
speaker6: let's talk tomorrow.

speaker1: that what you're doing when you're working late? 
speaker2: what are we talking about?
speaker1: you know exactly what i'm talking about.
speaker2: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: i'm going to bed. 'night, alice...
speaker3: 'night.

speaker1: i'm worried about her. you shouldn't fight like that. 
speaker2: that's not a fight, ma, it's marriage. not exactly your area of expertise.
speaker1: are you happy here?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: are you happy here?
speaker2: you're kidding, right? am i happy? every now and then i look around and i think my mama must be praying awful hard for me, 'cause i died and went to heaven. am i happy?
speaker1: you were always running somewhere.
speaker2: i guess i finally got there. look, i'm sorry about being so busy this week. maybe saturday i can get some time off and...
speaker1: don't worry on it. i love you more than anything in the whole world. you know that, don't you?
speaker2: i love you too, ma.

speaker1: mom? ma, what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm going home, kevin.
speaker1: what? what are you talking about?
speaker2: i don't feel right.
speaker1: you just got here. look, i'm late and i just got my teeth kicked in on the front page, so i gotta run. we'll talk later.
speaker2: i have to go, kevin. i miss my church.
speaker1: ma, this is new york, there must be twenty-thousand churches. take your pick.
speaker2: you need to do a better job with mary ann. she's not well. this place isn't good for her.

speaker1: so stay. take care of her if you're so concerned! help me out. 
speaker2: i'll take her home if you let me.
speaker1: this is home. you understand? this is where we live! i'm not going back to gainesville.
speaker2: 'wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to temptation.'
speaker1: it's a little early for scripture. i'm going to work. you can do whatever you want.

speaker1: i can't do it. it's one thing to have an affair with your boss, it's another to have to tell the world in a murder case. 
speaker2: we have to bring it out, melissa.
speaker1: my ex-husband would have a field day with this.
speaker2: a man's life is at stake. you're our whole case.

speaker1: ... there is nothing vague or exploratory about this subpoena request, your honor. we're specifically asking for any and all documents relating to devada holdings. it's taken six months and seventeen separate motions and we still don't know who's responsible here. we've got a paper trail here that seems to stretch into eternity! 
speaker2: mr. barzoon?
speaker3: can't turn over what you don't have, your honor. we've been conducting a comprehensive search of our records and i'm sorry to say it's a great deal less than mr. weaver would suggest.
speaker1: your honor, this is outrageous. we need to get in there and seize these documents before there's nothing left!
speaker3: your honor, it's exactly these types of insulting accusations --
speaker2: enough. both of you. put it on paper. i'll read it.
speaker1: your honor...

speaker1: forget about lunch. this guy weaver is running me ragged. 
speaker2: kevin. nancy osborne, metro news.
speaker3: busy.
speaker2: we had a report of a private plane at teterboro airport ready to take alexander cullen out of the coun --
speaker3: mr. cullen is innocent. he's not going anywhere. he's been released on a two million dollar bond. he looks forward to having his day in court. thank you.
speaker2: kevin, is there any truth to --
speaker3: i'm in the middle of a meeting. call my office. schedule an interview. or else forget it.
speaker3: i'm picking a jury tomorrow.
speaker1: you're good at that.

speaker1: you're not gonna have time to help me on cullen, are you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: devada holdings, eddie. look in your rearview window, i'm right behind you.
speaker4: kevin, chuck higgery, action news. have you spoken with alex cullen concerning the d.a.'s report...
speaker5: kevin, just a statement --
speaker2: gotta go.

speaker1: i dreamt about this. right here. it's not a dream if it's true. 
speaker2: tell me this is the medication.

speaker1: you won't stay with me now. 
speaker2: look, let's get you undressed and in the tub. okay?
speaker1: you won't stay. i know you. you'll leave me now for sure. get-away-from-me!
speaker2: okay. i'm confused. why? what is it now? what the is it today, mare? i swear to i'm calling this doctor, i'm gonna find out what the they're giving you.
speaker1: they took my ovaries. i told you! my sisters have seven children between them. my mother had derek when she was forty-five. you could set a clock by my periods.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: i can't have children!
speaker2: says who?
speaker1: the doctor! the other doctor. i was there today. non-specific ovarian failure.
speaker2: that's ridiculous.
speaker1: i know you. you'll leave me.

speaker1: mary ann... 
speaker2: it's these monsters, kevin. i dreamt this...

speaker1: uh huh. for sleep. and she can take that during the day? no, she won't be driving. i'm gonna have the pharmacy call you right back. thanks. he thinks, he's not sure, he thinks it could be some kind of hormonal imbalance. 
speaker2: i'm taking you off the case.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i want you to drop this case.
speaker1: this case? cullen? john, i've got a jury showing up this morning.
speaker2: do you love this woman?
speaker1: yes. of course i do.

speaker1: kevin, she's sick. everyone will understand. i'll understand. 
speaker2: what about cullen?
speaker1: we'll find someone new. you consult. you live to fight another day.
speaker2: i put together a great jury.
speaker1: it's a disappointment. we all have them. embrace it. use it.
speaker2: hang on, we gotta talk about this.
speaker1: what's to talk? it's your wife, man. and she's very sick. and that's gotta come first. are you telling me the possibility of leaving the case has never crossed your mind?
speaker2: you know what scares me? i quit the case. she gets better. and i hate her for it. i don't want to resent her, john. i've got a winner here. i gotta nail this down, do it fast, and put it behind me. just get it done. then put all my energy into her.
speaker1: i guess you have thought about it.

speaker1: ... and when all that evidence is laid before you, when all these pieces weave together, you will conclude -- you will know -- that alexander cullen is guilty of murdering three people in cold blood with malice aforethought. 
speaker2: mr. lomax... we can break for lunch now, or you can do a stop and start...
speaker3: if it's a choice, i'll go now. i won't be as long as mr. broygo.
speaker2: proceed.
speaker3: we just spent our morning listening to mr. broygo talk about his 'evidence'. what he neglected to tell you is what this case is really about. he left out the most important fact of all: alex cullen was somewhere else when these murders took place. now, alex cullen has done a lot of things i don't like. he's been a terrible husband to all three of his wives. he's been a destructive force in the lives of his step-children. he's cheated the city. his partners. his employees. he's paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in penalties and fines over the years. i don't like those things. i don't expect you to like them. there will be other things during the course of this trial that you will hear about and like even less. but this isn't a popularity contest. it's a murder trial and alex cullen hasn't killed anybody.

speaker1: what the was that? are you out of your mind? they hate me! 
speaker2: listen to me like you've never listened to anybody before. i'm going to bust my to make sure they hate you. because as long as you're out boning melissa, you're not home killing your wife.
speaker1: why didn't you tell me before?
speaker2: then it doesn't look spontaneous.

speaker1: let me put it this way, then: can you tell from a blood sample if the person were alive or dead? 
speaker2: the victim? of course not.
speaker1: and there's a two hour window in which to place these murders.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: so, you've got absolutely no way to determine the condition of the victims when alexander cullen put his hand on that wall.

speaker1: eddie... 
speaker2: saw you go in.
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: congratulations.

speaker1: it's not over yet. 
speaker2: i'm not talking about the trial.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: how the does your name get on the firm's charter?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: looks like it's been there for years. now you're a partner? when did that happen? i am still the managing director of this firm. you want my job? take me head on. backdoor me one more time and i'll take your partnership papers and stuff 'em down your throat.
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about, but i sure as don't like your tone of voice.
speaker2: 
speaker1: you got a problem with documents, i suggest you put together one of your late-night shredding sessions.
speaker2: you think you're tough enough to run this firm? fine. you tell milton next time weaver calls maybe i pick up the phone.

speaker1: was he drunk? 
speaker2: i doubt it. he was going running. what the was he talking about?
speaker1: eddie's gotten himself into trouble again. and he wants me to save him. and i can't.
speaker2: why does he think i'm after his job?
speaker1: do you have any experience with manic-depression?
speaker2: not directly, no.
speaker1: you do now.
speaker1: yes, it's me. get eddie barzoon. right away. he may be out running, so page him if you have to. it's an emergency. looks like you could use a drink.

speaker1: gimme your watch. 
speaker2: you want the watch, old man? come and get it.
speaker2: devil's advocate - rev. 11/2/96 106.

speaker1: you take a look at eddie barzoon you gotta wonder if maybe overplayed his hand. maybe he made the game a little too interesting. 
speaker2: i'm gonna, i'm gonna go downstairs now. put this stuff away. ice cream's already melting.

speaker1: you testified that the defendant called you at four-thirty to ask you to come to his office gym for the purposes of sex. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: mr. cullen, though, he's not just your lover, is he? he's the boss.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: so two hours go by before you act on his request?

speaker1: yes, i went up at six-ten. i knew it was six-ten, they had weather coming on the news. i remember -- cut off by -- 
speaker2: okay. stop. this prosecutor is no fool. he's gonna change tempo, attitude, tone of voice -- he's gonna come out with questions you never thought of, just to screw you up. so what do we do?
speaker1: yes and no answers. stay calm.
speaker2: exactly. is it your testimony, ms. block, that between the hours of six-ten and nine-forty you were engaged in sexual congress with the defendant?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: at any point during this three hour marathon, ms. block, did you lose sight of the defendant?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: did he use the bathroom?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: is he circumcised? you understand the question?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: so is he cut or not? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: which is it?
speaker1: you've been polishing his three times a week for six months and you don't know whether or not he's got foreskin?
speaker2: i've had it up to here with this game. why don't you take your questions and shove 'em up your ass.

speaker1: oh, kevin -- 
speaker2: what's happened?
speaker1: eddie barzoon...
speaker2: what about him?
speaker1: he's dead. he was killed.
speaker2: when?

speaker1: last night in the park. he was running if you can believe it. 
speaker2: what is wrong with people?
speaker1: at least they got the scumbags who did it.
speaker3: who?
speaker4: two old, homeless crazies.
speaker5: kevin... kevin, i'm sorry, but you're due in court in thirty minutes.
speaker6: are we through here, or what?
speaker5: i'll bring melissa down in the car, but you better get going.

speaker1: i can't put her on the stand. 
speaker2: what choice do we have?
speaker1: i know she's lying.
speaker2: because she didn't answer you fast enough? did she lie to you? no. she said nothing. the fact is, you'll never know.
speaker1: he killed those people.
speaker2: you really believe that?
speaker1: cullen set me up. melissa, the whole thing, i know it.
speaker2: look, you gotta go with your gut.
speaker1: that's your advice?
speaker2: i'll back you either way. hey, you think i haven't lost before? we talked about this, kevin. pressure. take a big whiff.

speaker1: counselor... 
speaker2: i call melissa block.

speaker1: she didn't look well, sir. felix tried to talk to her, but she -- 
speaker2: where is she?

speaker1: honey... mare. it's me. 
speaker2: he let himself in. you need to know that. the bath running, or something, i didn't hear him. i swear to you.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: then we talked. we talked for hours. i haven't talked to anyone, really talked to anyone in such a long time. you have this whole life and all i have is me and he was so clear about it all.
speaker1: who let himself in?
speaker2: i came down here. i've just been sitting. i'm afraid to pray. i let him stay. i'm sorry. i'm sorry. i'm sorry, kevin.
speaker1: did somebody hurt you?
speaker2: milton. he me, kevin. i let him me. i couldn't stop him.
speaker1: what? when?
speaker2: today. this afternoon. all afternoon. i'm so ashamed...

speaker1: today? today? today. he was in court, mare. he was in court, in my presence all afternoon! 
speaker2: i'm not crazy. i'm not. i swear.
speaker1: i don't know, mare. i don't know how much more of this i can take.

speaker1: i know why this is happening. 
speaker2: they want you to go to sleep.
speaker1: it's the money, kevin. blood money. we just drank it down. both of us. we knew it. winning those cases, taking the money. we knew they were guilty. but you kept winning. every time.

speaker1: what do they say? 
speaker2: they don't know. it's bad. she's falling apart.
speaker3: do you have room for one more?

speaker1: we are here today, to remember and pray and exalt in the spirit of edward barzoon... 
speaker1: ... father, husband, partner, friend, colleague...

speaker1: ... taken from us so suddenly... 
speaker1: ... to contemplate evil. how it robs -- how it steals everything of value from us...
speaker1: ... farther from purpose...

speaker1: mr. lomax? 
speaker2: no comment. i'll have something for you later.
speaker1: i'm a friend of eddie barzoon.
speaker1: remember me? mitch weaver.
speaker2: staking out the funeral?
speaker1: looking for you actually.
speaker2: i'm in a bit of a hurry right now.
speaker1: just wanted to ask you -- off the record -- i had a few questions about eddie.

speaker1: desoto and dibalista, in panama, that's a firm that specializes in opening bank accounts for judges all over south america. huge drug cases. murder. everything. 
speaker2: he's a lawyer! what the do you want? stay off my back.
speaker1: this is a first time, last time offer! i'm learning about you, kevin. i talked to some old friends down in florida this morning... the gettys case. the eighth grade teacher? found him this morning. he had the body of a ten-year-old girl in the trunk of his car.

speaker1: kevin... honey... 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: i came this morning. i been calling the house and getting no answer and then i spoke to pam and... i need to talk to you.
speaker3: we got her on the first flight up this morning.
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker2: i just... i don't know.
speaker1: will you excuse us a moment?

speaker1: i never should've left. i knew it. 
speaker2: i was gonna call you, i just...

speaker1: what i did, kevin, i thought it was for the best. loving you was always first for me. 
speaker2: there's nothing you could've done.
speaker1: i could've told you the truth.
speaker2: about what?
speaker1: i've lied to you, kevin.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: always. baptist endeavor youth crusade, ninety-sixty-four. i was here. in new york. that night in the elevator, you never let me answer.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: we stayed a week. the tremont hotel, it's not there anymore, i went by and it's gone -- they had a restaurant downstairs and we ate there almost every meal --
speaker2: wait. stop.
speaker1: your father was a waiter in that restaurant.
speaker2: oh, this is great, ma... this is just perfect --
speaker1: -- honey, listen to me --

speaker1: -- now? you do this now? -- because, i mean, your timing -- it's superb -- you wait thirty years? -- you fly up here -- you pick today? -- 
speaker2: -- kevin, honey, wait --
speaker1: -- obviously i'm not under enough pressure -- i don't have enough on my mind, i need this little --
speaker2: listen to me.
speaker1: why are you doing this now?
speaker2: because i'm afraid!
speaker2: kevin. kevin! 'behold i send you out as sheep amidst the wolves.' kevin just stopped walking.

speaker1: don't you look beautiful now. here. have a look and see. 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: it's all right, dear. look... 
speaker2: no. please...
speaker1: go on. take a look. see how beautiful you are?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker1: kevin!

speaker1: -- mare! -- no! -- look at me! -- 
speaker1: -- stop! -- no! -- mare! --

speaker1: -- mare! -- hang on! -- i'm almost there! -- look at me! 
speaker2: i loved you.
speaker1: noooooooooo!

speaker1: oh, mare, what've you done? -- no... 
speaker2: -- why? -- oh mare, why? we need a doctor in here!

speaker1: -- please -- somebody -- help her! -- what are you all doing? somebody! -- orderly 1 turning the corner up ahead -- 
speaker2: what's the hell's going on down here?

speaker1: -- no, mare -- hang on -- please, mare, i'm right here, it's gonna be okay, baby -- oh, mare, why did you do this? -- where's the doctor?! 
speaker2: oh man...

speaker1: what are you doing? help her! 
speaker2: hey, look, i ain't no doctor... hang on -- lemme --
speaker1: -- please, baby, stay with me... it'll be okay -- it's gonna be fine just, just stay with me -- oh mare... please, baby...

speaker1: i wish you'da let me help you. 
speaker2: finish the story. nineteen-sixty-four. you're in new york. there's a waiter in a restaurant. finish the story.
speaker1: he talked to me. nobody'd ever really talked to me before. sixteen years old, a thousand miles away from home, somebody takes an interest... working so hard, putting himself through school, i'd never met anybody like that. knew the bible, every word, just knew it by heart. every meal, there he was, at my ear and i just... i didn't want that week to ever end. but it did. he came to say goodbye, it was late, and i started to cry and he said not to worry, 'behold, i send you out as sheep amidst the wolves.' and that just stopped me cold because we'd spent that whole day at bible study reading matthew ten and there was just no way for him to know about that, so i was... i took it as a sign. i let him in. and then everything was different. he was cruel. he was so cruel and i was so ashamed, i thought i'd die...
speaker1: i promised right there if would let me back into his grace i would never leave again. i prayed there was a reason this terrible thing had happened. there had to be a reason. and there was. it was you. you were my blessing. you were reason enough to endure anything. how much i love you.
speaker2: i want to hear you say it.

speaker1: his face -- that night -- i knew it was him and the same time i was confused -- and you were so proud you'd come to new york and done all this on your own, i didn't have the heart to tell you -- 
speaker2: say it.
speaker1: -- you wondered yourself -- the apartment, the money, all this attention, everything out of nowhere... milton. he's your father. somehow he found us. tracked you down.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: he's always been there. i know that now. watching. waiting. he's been playing us like a game. jerking us around. destroying mary ann...
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker1: no... let it alone! stay with me. forget about him! we can leave here. we can go home! we don't ever have to see him again!

speaker1: i can't do that. you go home. pray for mary ann. 
speaker2: kevin, please... honey! i love you!

speaker1: you're right about one thing... i have been watching. couldn't help myself. watching, waiting, holding my breath. but i'm no puppeteer, kevin... 
speaker1: ... i don't make things happen. doesn't work like that. free will -- it's like butterfly wings -- one touch and it never gets off the ground. i only set the stage. you pull your own strings.
speaker2: what did you do to mary ann?
speaker1: a gun? in here?
speaker2: what did you do to my wife?
speaker1: on a scale of one to ten, ten being the most depraved acts of sexual theater, one being an average friday night run-through at the lomax household, i'd say... six.
speaker1: whoa... got me! that's my boy. step on up! stay angry! keep hold to that great fury! hang on tight, kevin, because it's the final fig leaf.
speaker2: who are you?

speaker1: never lost a case. why? why? because you're so good? 
speaker2: because you're my father.
speaker1: well, i'm a little more than that. awful hot in that courtroom, wasn't it? 'what's the game plan, kevin?' 'it was a nice run, kevin. had to close out someday.'
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: i have so many names.
speaker2: satan.
speaker1: call me dad.
speaker2: mary ann, barzoon, weaver...
speaker1: come on. you're not listening. blaming me for mary ann? i hope you're kidding. you could've saved her any time you liked. she only wanted love. but you knew it wouldn't really work out, didn't you? mary ann in new york? face it, you started looking to better- deal her the minute you got here.
speaker2: that's a lie.
speaker1: hey, it's not that you didn't care for her, it's just you were a little bit more involved with someone else. yourself.
speaker2: what the do you know about love?

speaker1: bio-chemically no different than eating large quantities of chocolate. don't be such a chump. there's only one real sickness in all of creation and that is self- delusion. i told you to take care of your wife -- that the world would understand. and you made a choice. 'you know what scares me, john? i leave the case, she gets better and i hate her for it...' remember? 
speaker2: you set me up. it's entrapment.
speaker1: who told you to pull out the stops for mr. gettys? and moyez -- the direction you took -- snake handlers, popes and swamis all feeding at the same trough -- whose ideas were those? and then cullen -- knowing he's guilty -- seeing those pictures -- putting that lying on the stand... what did i say, kevin? maybe it was time to lose, right? you didn't think so.
speaker2: that's my job. that's what i do!
speaker1: exactly! vanity is definitely my favorite sin. self love. it's so basic. what a drug. cheap, all-natural, and right at your fingertips. pride. that's where you're strongest. and believe me, i understand. work for someone else? -- hey, i couldn't hack it. 'better to reign in than serve in heaven.'
speaker2: what do you want from me?
speaker1: what do i want? i want you to be yourself!
speaker1: devil's advocate - rev. 1/18/97 136.

speaker1: i've had many children, kevin. so many disappointments. neurotic, indecisive wannabes. over-eager, ham-handed butchers. strung-out, priapic losers. and then there's you. your mother, i'll tell you, she outstripped my wildest fantasy. that church she dragged you to? every day? what training. what a challenge! it's awesome what you've done. how far you've come. both of you... you and your sister. 
speaker1: half-sister to be exact.
speaker2: surprise.
speaker1: what do you think, kevin? what a scene, huh?
speaker2: don't let him scare you.
speaker1: wait till you meet her mother.
speaker3: it is a test, isn't it? the whole game, you sitting there, keeping score.
speaker1: no. that's the other guy. i don't judge anybody. as far as i'm concerned, everyone's a winner.

speaker1: i'm here, on the ground, my nose in it since the whole thing began. why? because i worship man himself. and it's my time now. our time. 
speaker2: anybody want a drink? i'm having a drink.
speaker3: this is some pitch. you must need me pretty bad. what do you want?
speaker1: eddie was right. your name is on the partnership charter. i want you to take over the firm. you and your sister.
speaker3: is that it?

speaker1: no. she's ovulating. right now. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: your vanity is justified, kevin, you're the seed to a new future. your son will sit at the head of all tables. you hold a special place in the history of all things.
speaker2: you want a child.
speaker1: i want a family.
speaker2: the antichrist.
speaker1: whatever...
speaker2: but i have to volunteer.
speaker1: free will. it's a i need a family. i command an ever larger presence on the board. i'm busy and i need some help. there's a plan here. i've been conserving my energy. synergy. prioritize. it's the millennium, kevin. title fight. round twenty. i'm ready to work.
speaker2: so what are you offering?
speaker1: are we negotiating?
speaker2: always.

speaker1: yes! 
speaker2: what are you offering?
speaker1: everything. anything. all of it! what am i offering? i'm offering bliss. instant bliss. bliss by remote control. bliss on tap. that first line of cocaine. that walk into a strange girl's bedroom. the jury coming back in thirty- eight minutes. freedom.

speaker1: you're right, aren't you? about me. i mean, i made all the choices, didn't i? gettys. cullen. mary ann. i did kill her, didn't i? 
speaker2: don't be too hard on yourself.
speaker3: it's done. forget it. it's all for us now.
speaker2: she's just stunning, isn't she?

speaker1: you're right. i wanted to her from the minute we met. 
speaker2: like that's wrong. like there's anything wrong with that. that there could be laws preventing something so natural. that's our ticket in. did you know there were more students in law school right now than lawyers walking the earth?

speaker1: we're coming out, guns blazing. the two of you -- all of us -- acquittal after acquittal until the stench of it reaches so high into heaven it chokes the whole lot of them! what we cannot legislate we will buy. what we cannot buy we will degrade. we will blow every fuse of enlightenment until it looks like a vandalized, neon sign! and while is busy at his peephole -- as he deigns us with his disapproval -- as he lumbers around his empty kingdom like some overfed colonial governor -- as sleeps late, we will win. 
speaker2: in the bible you lose. you're destined to lose.
speaker1: consider the source.
speaker3: stop talking. both of you. kevin, please...
speaker3: devil's advocate - rev. 1/18/97 141.

speaker1: kevin, really, please... 
speaker2: she's right, my son. it's time to step up and take what's yours.
speaker3: you're right. it's time.
speaker2: nooooooo...!

speaker1: honey, what are you doing? are you okay? 
speaker2: all rise for the honorable justice garson deeds.
speaker3: you're still under oath, young lady.

speaker1: your witness, mr. lomax. 
speaker2: your honor, i'm terribly sorry, but i can no longer represent my client. i need to be replaced as counsel.

speaker1: kevin! -- hey! listen, this story -- this is the one, pal -- this is the one you dream about -- 
speaker2: there is no story.
speaker1: a lawyer with a crisis of conscience? you gotta be kidding. it's huge!
speaker2: they're gonna disbar me, larry.
speaker3: can they do that?
speaker1: not when i get through with the story. you gotta talk, kevin. you gotta gimme an exclusive.

speaker1: this is wire service. this is 'sixty minutes'. this is a story that needs to be told. it's you! 
speaker2: call me tomorrow.
speaker1: you got it. first thing.

