speaker1: - so livia - 
speaker2: -- killed everyone off so her son tiberius could inherit the throne. just like nixon.
speaker3: hey mom! i already ate.

speaker1: you sure? i'm making soy cutlets. 
speaker2: i'm fine. already ate.
speaker1: wait. you've been kissing.
speaker2: no i haven't.
speaker1: yes... yes, you have...
speaker2: no i haven't.
speaker1: yes you have. i can tell.
speaker2: you can't tell.
speaker1: not only can i
speaker1: honey, it's all about drugs and promiscuous sex.
speaker2: simon and garfunkel is poetry!
speaker1: yes it's poetry. it's the poetry of drugs and pot.

speaker1: first it was butter, then sugar and white flour. bacon. eggs, bologna, rock and roll, motorcycles. 
speaker1: what else are you going to ban?
speaker2: honey, you want to rebel against knowledge. elaine i'm trying to give you the cliff's notes on how to live in this world.
speaker1: we're like nobody else i know.
speaker2: i'm a teacher. why can't i teach my own kids? use me.
speaker1: darryl says you use knowledge to keep me down. he says i'm a "yes" person and you're trying to raise us in a "no" environment!
speaker2: well, clearly, "no" is a word darryl doesn't hear much.
speaker3: mom --
speaker2: everything i say is wrong.
speaker1: i can't live here! i hate you! even william hates you!
speaker3: i don't hate her.
speaker1: you don't even know the truth!
speaker2: sweetheart, don't be a drama queen.

speaker1: i think she said what's the difference? 
speaker1: well. the letter "u"...

speaker1: hey guys! check it out! william doesn't have any 
speaker1: he's not a man, he's a little baby kid. he doesn't even get zits yet.
speaker2: how come you don't have any hair down there?

speaker1: put on your seatbelt. i don't want you flying through the windshield. 
speaker2: we got our annuals today --
speaker1: "received" your annual.
speaker2: i look so much younger than everyone else.
speaker1: enjoy it while you can.
speaker3: mom. it's time.
speaker1: can this wait until we get home?
speaker3: mom, knows how old he is.
speaker3: the other kids make fun of him because of how young he looks.
speaker1: what's a "narc?"

speaker1: come on you guys. it's no big deal. i'm 12. it's okay. she skipped me a grade, it's okay. big deal. i'm a year younger. they're 13, i'm 12 -- aren't i? 
speaker2: i also put you in first grade when you were five and never told you.
speaker1: so... i'm... how old?
speaker3: you lied to him! you make such a big deal about the truth and you lied!
speaker2: he never asked.
speaker3: what -- like he's going to ask if he's as old as he and his dad.
speaker3: you put too much pressure on him!
speaker1: how... old...
speaker3: and when he rebels in some strange and odd way, don't blame me.
speaker1: ... am i?
speaker2: i skipped you an extra grade. you're eleven.
speaker1: eleven.
speaker2: and you skipped kindergarten because i taught it to you when you were four.
speaker1: this explains... so much...
speaker3: you've robbed him of an adolescence!
speaker2: adolescence is a marketing tool.
speaker3: he's got no "crowd"... no friends...
speaker1: okay!
speaker3: honey, i know you were expecting puberty. you're just going to have to shine it on for a while.
speaker2: who needs a "crowd?" you're unique. you're two years ahead of everybody. take those extra years and do what you want. go to europe for a year! take a look around, see what you like! follow your dream! you'll
speaker2: you're rebellious and ungrateful of my love.
speaker3: well, somebody's gotta be normal around here!

speaker1: i want to play you a song that explains why i'm leaving, and try to listen. 
speaker2: we can't talk? we have to listen to rock music?

speaker1: take good care of her in san francisco, man. 
speaker2: how can she leave such a loving family?
speaker3: one day you'll be cool.
speaker2: she'll be back.

speaker1: quite an honor to have the world's greatest rock critic... and editor of raw power?! 
speaker1: lester, isn't it a little early for this?
speaker2: found it!!

speaker1: so you're the one who's been sending me those articles from your school newspaper - 
speaker2: i've been doing some stuff for a local underground paper, too.
speaker1: what are you like the star of your school?
speaker2: they hate me.
speaker1: you'll meet them all again on their long journey to the middle. the kid nods, they walk. bangs well, your writing is good. it's just a shame you missed out on rock and roll.
speaker2: i did?
speaker1: oh yeah. it's over.
speaker2: over?
speaker1: over. you got here just in time for the death rattle, the last gasp, the last grope.
speaker2: well. at least i'm here for that.
speaker1: what do you type on?
speaker2: smith-corona galaxis deluxe.
speaker1: you like the new lou reed?
speaker2: the early stuff. the new stuff, he's trying to be bowie, he should be himself. i'm not a big lou man.
speaker1: yeah, but if bowie's doing lou, and lou's doing bowie, lou's still doing lou. if you like lou.
speaker1: take drugs?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: smart kid. i used to do speed and sometimes nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing, like 25 pages of dribble about, you know, the guess who, or coltrane,

speaker1: okay. see you. 
speaker2: i can't stand here all day talking to my many fans.

speaker1: -- so anyway, you're from san diego and 
speaker1: and
speaker2: yeah. and you should build your reputation on being honest... and unmerciful.
speaker3: honest... unmerciful...
speaker1: and if you get into a jam -- call me. i stay up late.

speaker1: look at this. an entire generation of cinderellas and 
speaker1: black. sabbath. just remember - you wanted to be atticus finch in

speaker1: hi. i'm william miller and i'm here from creem from his bag. 
speaker1: sir, i'm a journalist, and here's a copy of the magazine.
speaker2: you're

speaker1: who are you with? 
speaker2: me? i'm with myself.
speaker1: no, who are you with? what band?
speaker2: i'm here to interview black sabbath. i'm a journalist. i'm not a... you know...
speaker3: ... you're not a what?
speaker2: oh... i'm just... not a... you know.
speaker3: not a "what"?
speaker2: you know. a "groupie."
speaker1: ohhh!
speaker2: sorry, i -
speaker3: we. are not. "groupies."
speaker1: this is penny lane, man. show some respect.
speaker2: -- sorry.
speaker3: "groupies" sleep with rock stars because they want to be near someone famous. we are here because of the music. we are band aids.
speaker1: she used to run a school for band aids.
speaker3: we don't have
speaker3: it's a long story. i'm retired now.

speaker1: "... just blow-jobs, and that's it." 
speaker2: okay. well, see, now i get the difference.
speaker1: polexia!! did you tell sabbath we were going to be here?
speaker3: i talked to with stillwater, i talked with sabbath. they're all dying to see us. it's all happening.
speaker4: this is our journalist friend. journalist friend, meet estrella starr, and polexia aphrodisia. and you are --
speaker2: william.
speaker3: here comes sabbath!
speaker1: ozzy!!! tony!!! it's us!!
speaker3: okay. i was with ian hunter
speaker5: yeah. i know he's such a talented guy. i mean, look at him. who deserves it more?
speaker3: nobody -- he's so sweet.
speaker1: don't you just

speaker1: oh no. not this one -- 
speaker1: who brought
speaker2: he wasn't with you.
speaker1: are you going to turn this into a thing?
speaker2: all of you can wait outside! top of the ramp!
speaker3: i don't want to cause a thing. i'll wait.
speaker4: let us in, we're stillwater! we're on the show!! creem magazine.
speaker3: hi, i'm a journalist. i write for
speaker3: i'd like to interview you or someone from the band.
speaker4: i'm sorry but could you please
speaker5: you guys rolling stone.
speaker6: yeah. okay. off anyway. we play for fans, not critics.
speaker3: russell. jeff. ed. larry. i really love your band. i think the song "fever dog" is a big step forward for you guys. i think you guys producing it yourselves, instead of glyn johns, was the right thing to do.
speaker5: yeah, come back here!! keep going!
speaker2: not this one.
speaker6: he's with us.

speaker1: red dog! 
speaker2: we're playing here tomorrow night.
speaker3: this is red dog, the allman brothers band's number one roadie.
speaker1: how're the guys?
speaker2: havin a ball, man. when we have a party, we have an

speaker1: but we didn't do it for that! we are here because we needed to be here, not just 'cause we needed to away from troy, michigan, which we did... but what it all comes down to is that 
speaker1: the buzz! and the chicks, the whatever, is an off-shoot of the buzz. and like -- you saying you liked "fever dog?" that is the buzz, man. all we get are these old-ass interviewers who don't understand, don't listen, don't appreciate why we are here, which is the buzz.
speaker2: the next album will be even better.
speaker1: but... it's not what you put in, is it? it's what you leave out. listen to... listen to marvin gaye...
speaker3: i know that, "woo."
speaker1: that's what you remember. the silly things, the little things... there's only one, and it makes the song. it's what you leave out. that's rock and roll. william nods, says nothing, keeps the microphone pointed.
speaker2: we used to talk more about this stuff.
speaker1: okay. see, this is maybe the most honest we've ever been in an interview because
speaker1: there you go. still young enough to be honest.
speaker4: ten minutes 'till showtime, anyone who isn't in the band --

speaker1: i found you a pass. 
speaker2: thanks. i got in with stillwater. the guitarist, russel hammond, he just thoroughly opened up. he is by far the best and most honest interview i've ever done. i've only done
speaker2: eighteen.
speaker1: me too. how old are we really?
speaker2: seventeen.
speaker1: me too.
speaker2: actually i'm 16.
speaker1: me too. isn't it funny? the truth just sounds different.
speaker2: i'm 15.
speaker1: you want to know how old i really am?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: it's a long story.
speaker2: right. right.
speaker1: we live in the same city. we should be friends.
speaker3: the enemy!
speaker2: russell, this is penny lane.
speaker1: pleasure.
speaker3: penny lane? like the song, right?
speaker1: have we met?

speaker1: well, i guess you've... you've met. 
speaker2: penny lane! gift to rock and roll!! you're back! marc bolan.

speaker1: so. you want to come up to l.a., we'll be at the "riot house" all week. 
speaker2: "the riot house?"
speaker1: the continental hyatt house! it's on sunset strip.
speaker2: right. right.
speaker3: let's blow this burg!
speaker1: well tell your friend miss penny lane to
speaker1: oh, i'm under the name - harry houdini.
speaker4: the enemy!! yeah!! come to l.a., we'll take some more.
speaker2: later jeff! see you, larry. ed. mick, gregg, red dog, scully, frosty, estrella, the wheel!
speaker3: laterrrr! we'll see you down the line.

speaker1: hey. hey. be cool. 
speaker2: you just missed russell! he says he's at the "riot house" all week and to call him. he's under the name
speaker2: he had a message for you! he said, "it's not california without you. we want you around like last summer." actually he said "ain't." "it ain't california - "
speaker3: i get the gist.
speaker2: how well do you guys know each other? she smiles privately. william i got it. no problem. long story. alright! i gotta go.

speaker1: call me if you need a rescue. we live in the same city. 
speaker2: i think i live in a different world.
speaker3: speaking of the world. i've made a decision. i'm going to live in morocco for
speaker3: it's a plan. you've got to call me.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: it's all happening.
speaker2: it's all happening.

speaker1: hey darryl. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: yeah. she and mom are still sorta... i'd say "not speaking," but i don't know if they ever did.
speaker2: your sister. a stewardess. the things your sister and i did inside these four walls...
speaker1: that's okay. i don't want to know.
speaker2: we flew the friendly skies -

speaker1: i don't want to put you in the middle of anything. we don't have to talk about it. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you seem cooler.
speaker2: yeah. i'm thinking about going to morocco.
speaker1: lemme know if you need a little help with your mom.
speaker2: a little might not be enough.
speaker1: she still freaks me out.
speaker2: yeah -
speaker1: she's famous.
speaker2: listen -
speaker1: go ahead and do what you were doing.
speaker2: cool. alright.
speaker1: okay, man.
speaker2: okay, man.

speaker1: i worry about the drunk drivers. 
speaker2: mom. i'm 15. right?
speaker1: yes, you're 15. "and here's that money i owed you."
speaker2: i thought it was pretty good.
speaker1: and call me if anyone gets drunk.
speaker2: i will call you if anyone anywhere gets drunk.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: and don't take drugs.
speaker1: ha ha. very funny. see -- sense of humor. have fun at the dance. i'm glad you're making friends. they move to the door, and he steadies her, as if to remind her
speaker1: yeah -
speaker2: stay.
speaker1: oh... okay.
speaker2: i-love-you-bye.

speaker1: it's all happening. and i'm about to use you as protection. 
speaker2: penny lane!!
speaker1: these guys are with alice cooper. i'm going to pretend i don't know them.
speaker3: penny!! does alice know you're here?
speaker1: i'm just showing my very dear, very wonderful friend around. he's a very important writer - he knows lester bangs. i'm responsible for his moral conduct while he's abroad.
speaker4: penny lane!! gift to rock and roll!!
speaker1: i'm retired. and don't argue with me!

speaker1: have we met? 
speaker2: i heard you were with russell from stillwater.

speaker1: polexia! 
speaker2: opie!!!
speaker3: it's all happening. i just saw them on the seventh floor! mr. jimmy page... mr. john paul jones... mr. robert plant signed my shirt in the elevator!! five minutes ago, he touched this pen. please don't smear it. and bonzo's gotta new motorcycle in the hotel!
speaker4: ric is a zeppelin fan.
speaker1: yeah, i picked that up.
speaker4: he tours with them, but not "with" them.
speaker3: they're on the 12th floor, but there's guards there! so you gotta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps.
speaker5: this is my very dear, very close, very
speaker5: i'm retired! doesn't anybody believe me!?

speaker1: alright. 
speaker2: alright.
speaker3: act one, in which
speaker3: stop them? you were her excuse for coming here.

speaker1: i need ice! 
speaker2: i just worry about people using her. you know? 'cause she brings out the good side in everybody else, but what do they do for
speaker2: do you smoke?
speaker3: no. but i... i grow it. i grow it.
speaker2: you're funny. you know, if you were only taller, english, rich, a guitar- player and older...
speaker3: i'd be someone else.
speaker2: yeah. good point.

speaker1: how does it end? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife -- the one we don't talk about -- and gets a hundred... okay, five letters from him, and then doesn't even leave a pass in san diego. wake up! i'm retired and i never believed you anyway. you're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it.
speaker1: never.
speaker2: we leave thursday morning. 9 am. and pack light this time.

speaker1: this is he. 
speaker2: crazy. william, this is ben fong- torres. i'm the music editor at
speaker2: voice of howling dogs, the spirit of rock and roll... this is good solid stuff.
speaker1: thanks... thanks.
speaker2: you should be writing for us. any ideas?
speaker1: how about stillwater?
speaker2: crazy. new album... their third... starting to do something.
speaker2: we can only pay -- lemme see, three- thousand words --
speaker2: what college --
speaker3: honey, i need you to do that thing that fixes the garbage disposal -- she hangs up.
speaker2: well, i know how
speaker2: crazy! i'll let you go. call me at the san francisco office tomorrow.

speaker1: you have starry eyes, my friend. look. do the story. it's a good break for ya. but remember this -- the kid listens intently, and makes notes. lester bangs ... don't do it to make friends with people who are trying to use you to further the big business desire to glorify worthless rock stars like stillwater. and don't let those swill merchants re-write you. 
speaker2: ... swill merchants...

speaker1: whatever it is, the answer is no. 
speaker2: elaine, we need to talk to you. what are you doing here?
speaker3: moral support.
speaker1: what's involved?
speaker2: well. it's a great opportunity. he'll be well-paid, and published nationally -- -- and he'll go on tour with a rock band for four days. no small planes...
speaker1: is it time for me to say something?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: and in anticipation of that response - 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: -- william has prepared --
speaker2: "lo, that which i have feared has come upon me."

speaker1: he's got no friends!! 
speaker2: darryl. please.
speaker3: elaine, may i present to you... your own son.
speaker2: this is going to be hell.
speaker2: the song is based on the literature of tolkien... and it's mystical attempt to elevate humanity has been successful throughout the world...

speaker1: gotcha. 
speaker2: do you have any pot?
speaker3: no. i'm a journalist.
speaker2: well, go do your job then. you're on the road, man. it's all happening! get in there. go talk to 'em!
speaker3: russell. do you think we might be able to find some time to talk when we get to phoenix? i want to interview everyone separately... and i felt we'd start with you and me.
speaker4: absolutely.
speaker3: because i've got a thing in a couple days.
speaker4: what.
speaker3: it's a... thing where... uhm... you go there to graduate. school.
speaker4: i
speaker1: i may need to stay in your room tonight. russell's in a bad mood. he's very
speaker3: no thanks.

speaker1: jeff, tony... keys... keys... keys... room list... if it doesn't have a number on it, it ain't ours! 
speaker2: is this mr. miller? you have a message from elaine.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker2: she's a handful.
speaker3: i know.
speaker4: finally, you're here!! they kicked me out of my room! ozzy!
speaker5: come by in a few minutes. we'll do the interview.
speaker6: i'm worried, man.
speaker5: naw, we can trust him. he's a fan.
speaker6: but it's
speaker6: plus our girlfriends read this magazine and - -- you know.
speaker5: you made your point. i'll take to him.

speaker1: can sapphire stay in your room tonight? she had a big fight with ozzy, and polexia's not working out with jeff bebe. you just have to remember... these guys are jealous, insecure, talented, egocentric, and manipulative geniuses... 
speaker2: me too?
speaker3: sure.

speaker1: hi dad!! i can't talk long! i'm here in paris. i'm staying in another youth hostel with no phone and no address for mail!! 
speaker2: alex.
speaker3: i was the one who told him what to tattoo on his fingers, i was the one who made his shirts... i was there when his wife left him.
speaker2: charles. c.

speaker1: paul and debbie finger. 
speaker2: oh my simon kirke of bad company is

speaker1: ooo, watch out - whoever you look at when you say that - that's who you really mean. 
speaker2: you know. we should talk about what we don't talk about.
speaker3: we don't have to.
speaker2: no, i - i went to catholic school. i believe in guilt and... you know, if there's any to be had, i pretty much want to roll around in it.
speaker3: i don't believe in attachments. no boundaries. just the music.
speaker2: i'm just saying, it's okay to talk about it.
speaker3: leslie. russell nods. the name is out in the open. penny leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie.
speaker2: alright - now we're talking.

speaker1: leslie. leslie. leslie. lesssssslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie. leslie... 
speaker2: opie, can i order room service?
speaker3: okay. you guys. wait. put down the phone, polexia. first, this is my room...
speaker2: come on, you're a fan like us. you're on our side of the line.
speaker3: second. i'm not opie. alright? opie is a little boy. i'm here to do a job. i am a professional.
speaker4: ooooooo, sorry, mr. 42.
speaker3: third! ... this phone is a big, big deal. in a minute, i have to go interview russell.

speaker1: don't worry. some to the radio interview. 
speaker2: no, i'm fine. i'll just interview jeff bebe some more.

speaker1: the guitar of russell hammond. "fever dog"... the band is stillwater. watch with your mind as they materialize. 
speaker2: william's room.
speaker3: can i please speak to him? this is ben fong-torres at

speaker1: look at the dogs, wearing the funny hats. juggling just for you. freaks and family... 
speaker2: i think he was a gift from actually. nobody plays like russell hammond.
speaker2: everybody pays you compliments. it's not my job to kiss your all the time.
speaker3: well then who's job is it? because my is dying for a kiss.
speaker4: it's my job. you're all geniuses. and let me just add this thought -
speaker1: the dong is called "love thing." your mind is starting to take effect. they're all here to see you swallow fire. you scream soundlessly... on the

speaker1: may i speak with william please? 
speaker2: he's not here. i think he's in the bar with the band. they just got back from the radio station. is this maryann with the pot? silence. estrella hello?
speaker1: no this isn't maryann with the pot. this is elaine... his mother.
speaker2: i thought you were english.
speaker1: could you please give him a message?

speaker1: for a minute i thought you were actually a real journalist... which is... you know, it's great. shut that thing off, and i'll tell you the truth. william shuts his tape recorder off. 
speaker2: it's off.
speaker1: look. i trust you. i'm going to lay this right on you. just make us look cool.
speaker2: i will quote you warmly and accurately.
speaker1: that's what i'm worried about. see - some of us have girlfriends back home. some of us have wives. and... some of the people you meet on the road are really amazing people... oh. yeah.
speaker1: you know what i mean?
speaker2: right. yeah.
speaker1: see, you're dangerous. most people are just waiting to talk, but you listen.
speaker2: right. right.
speaker1: so your question you asked me. i think about it every night. the "business." i hate it! i grew up with these guys, okay? i can't play all that i can play, i'm past these musicians, do you understand?
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: the more popular we get, the more i can't walk on them, the bigger their houses get, the more pressure... you forget, man. you forget what it was like to be real, to be a
speaker1: man, it feels good to say this stuff out loud. but what am i doing? i'm telling secrets to the one guy you don't tell secrets to.
speaker2: no, that's okay. we'll do the interview tomorrow.
speaker1: this is good. so there's the "friend" and then there's the "interview guy."
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: so tonight it's "friend".... and when we wake up tomorrow - "

speaker1: how would you describe your role in stillwater? what is the chemical that you add to the chemistry? 
speaker2: i'm the bass-player.
speaker1: right. and when you take that away... what would be missing? stylistically?
speaker2: the bass?

speaker1: get in, get in!! 
speaker2: are you the manager of this band?
speaker1: that, and more. get in!
speaker2: you didn't even play a full set!
speaker1: your shoddy stage set-up almost killed our guitarist!
speaker2: you trashed the dressing room - you didn't play your thirty-five minutes.
speaker1: everybody in! get in the bus!
speaker2: i'll report you to every promoter in the country!

speaker1: don't worry. it's happened to all the greats. thank you didn't hold the mike stand with both hands, you'd still be holding it. this is a good thing. it's a good, good, good thing. 
speaker2: i forgot to tell you! your mom says to call home immediately. she says
speaker3: what did it feel like to be electrocuted?
speaker4: it burns. it feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body... and then you see and he says, "how bad do you want to be legendary?" and

speaker1: give that to me. 
speaker2: what will our names be?
speaker1: what do you think of russell?
speaker2: i like him.
speaker1: you're coming to cleveland, right?

speaker1: what problems? 
speaker2: okay. i got it. i think your name should be spencer, and mine will be jane.
speaker1: i can't keep up with you.
speaker2: no one can.
speaker1: what's your real name?
speaker2: here's the thing about russell. he's my last project. i only do this for a very few people.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey.

speaker1: fire away. i'm ready. i'm on the "you" train. take me there. 
speaker2: do you have to be depressed to write a sad song? do you have to be in love to write a love song? is a song better if it really happened to you? like, "if you say nothing"... where did you write that and how did it come about?
speaker1: when did you get so professional?
speaker3: i'm almost done with my shirt.
speaker4: russell, your dad showed up again. and on a lighter note. gentlemen. your first t-shirts have arrived.
speaker5: yeah. okay.
speaker1: because i can see by your face - you want to get into this -
speaker5: how can you tell? i'm just one of the out-of-focus guys.
speaker1: here we go.
speaker5: well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
speaker1: it's a t-shirt.
speaker5: i'm always gonna tell you the truth.
speaker1: are you doing coke again?
speaker5: excuse me, but didn't we all get into this to avoid responsibility?
speaker5: forgive me. but this is the slow-moving train of compromise that will
speaker5: i works as hard or really mean.
speaker5: oh, this is the part where you quit -
speaker1: right. i'm so predictable.
speaker5: no i gotta tell the truth -- i want you to like me. but sometimes i feel like you collect people who love you and then very skillfully... you make them feel bad that they're not good enough for you.
speaker1: stick to singing, brother, 'cause you ain't gonna make it as a shrink.
speaker5: deal with it! and let me just say what nobody else wants to say to you -
speaker1: what?
speaker5: your looks have become a problem.

speaker1: son! 
speaker2: hello harry.
speaker1: he got all the good genes, huh? meet deirdre. we're getting married in july.

speaker1: you okay? you alright? 
speaker2: from here on out, i'm only interested in what's
speaker2: you know, you know all about us and i don't know
speaker2: okay, that's good. that's enough.
speaker1: it's good to talk about it. really good.
speaker2: if they want me, they can find me.
speaker1: so listen. i have to go home tomorrow. i know this is a bad time to finish our interview.
speaker2: hey, man, you know what? write whatever you want. i trust you.
speaker3: woooooooooo!!! you're russel from stillwater!!
speaker2: on my better days, yes. i am "woooooo, russell from stillwater!"
speaker3: wanna go to a party at my friend aaron's house?! i know you're a big rock star, but do you want to hang with some people looking to have a good time?

speaker1: can i have your belt? 
speaker2: take it!
speaker2: what?
speaker3: the bathroom.
speaker2: okay. good to know.

speaker1: we should probably head back sometime. 
speaker2: topeka. check it out.
speaker1: please don't give him any more acid.

speaker1: he's here right now! go ahead and put it out over the radio, tell people to bring food and beer and chicks. we're at rural route 4 - 
speaker2: no no. nope. no.

speaker1: don't jump, okay? 
speaker2: and you can tell
speaker2: critic!!
speaker1: no, i'm not -
speaker2: okay i got it. i got it. i got it.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: they've been crying for you like a bunch of whimpering -- 
speaker2: the band is over. this is my family now.
speaker3: right on. he's staying with us.
speaker1: definitely. it's all over. we'll just ride on to greenville, listen to some great music, finish the tour, and leave those ungrateful fools behind. and then we'll come back here, where you'll live.
speaker2: i know what you're doing... and
speaker4: which half?
speaker1: good question.
speaker4: i have a lot more. just help me get my interview so i can go home from greenville. i have to go home. i have to go home.
speaker1: hey. you saved the tour. that's good enough for now.

speaker1: ... think... piece... 
speaker2: longhand small script on yellow legal tablets.

speaker1: wait. i'll leave. 
speaker2: backwards?
speaker1: i don't know. i just thought we could hang out, maybe do some stuff back home, regular stuff, get to know each other better... and
speaker1: i'm not one of you.
speaker2: oh! if you go to cleveland, bowie's going to be there at swingo's, the greatest hotel in america. i'll introduce you to him, and his security guy dennis.
speaker1: don't you have any regular friends?
speaker2: famous people are just more interesting.
speaker1: well, i would be worried that they were using
speaker1: let me finish. i'm not famous.... but you could always use
speaker1: did he call? what are you -- stop it -- we're talking here.
speaker3: pants him. opie must die.

speaker1: i'm getting good stuff out here. 
speaker2: sounds like it.
speaker3: man, i need some - he clamps a hand over her mouth.
speaker2: now listen. get it together. we're both professionals, i don't have to tell you this. you're not out there to join the party -- we already have one hunter thompson. you're out there to interview and report. you got me?
speaker2: i like what we're saying. let me try and get you a thousand more words. it's in consideration for the cover, but don't tell the band.
speaker1: crazy.
speaker3: - coffee.
speaker4: me too. greenville is
speaker4: will you take the laundry?
speaker1: what am i to you? tell me right now!

speaker1: no. i can't. you've got to help me. 
speaker2: come on man, we'll have more time there. don't be tense!!
speaker1: you said you'd help me.
speaker3: come to cleveland.
speaker2: come to cleveland... come to cleveland...
speaker1: i can't!!
speaker2: can we help it if we like having you around!
speaker3: rock and roll!
speaker1: rock and roll.

speaker1: i feel... like his parents. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i wonder how that happened.
speaker2: you ever notice that all our sentences begin with "i?"
speaker1: i hadn't, no.
speaker2: 'cause we should work on that.

speaker1: tell her you're a slave to the groove - you can't help it! 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: hi mom! it's russell hammond, i play guitar in stillwater! it's my fault. how does it feel to be the mother of the future of rock journalism? hello?
speaker3: listen to me. your charm does not work on me. i'm onto you. of course you like him.
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: he worships you people and that's fine with you, as long as he helps make you rich.
speaker1: rich? i don't think so -
speaker3: listen to me. he's a smart, good- hearted, 15 year-old kid, with infinite potential.
speaker3: if you break his spirit, harm him in any way, keep him from his chosen profession -- which is
speaker3: i didn't ask for this role, but

speaker1: your mom kind of freaked me out. 
speaker2: she means well.

speaker1: so when you play a great show like tonight... 
speaker2: okay. i need everybody's attention.
speaker3: bring him in! we'll send him out on a rail!
speaker4: hi.
speaker5: we already have a manager. he's been with us from the beginning.
speaker4: respectfully. we all have our roots. i believe in bands holding onto their roots. but those roots need to be augmented. i'm gonna tell you the truth - i may enrage some and enthrall others. i don't really give a your manager here
speaker3: doris is the soul of this band! that bus has been our home since we were the jeff bebe band.
speaker6: hey man -- it's travel on a

speaker1: anyone seen russell? 
speaker2: the enemy!
speaker3: hey! welcome to the road crew poker party. this game's been going of for two years.
speaker2: that's mick - he's with the who. that's john - with j. geils. and that's richard with the eagles... and you know the wheel.
speaker4: hey.
speaker2: side proposition. for fifty dollars and a case of heineken, i will put into the pot... three lovely ladies, including the famous penny lane... the band-aids, who need to exit our tour before new york...
speaker5: it's a deal. show 'em.
speaker2: three lovely ladies... now in the custody of humble pie.
speaker5: alright, so we owe you fifty dollars and a case of heineken.
speaker3: look. nobody's feelings are getting hurt here. she already knows leslie's coming to new york tomorrow. they all understand. this is the circus. everybody's trying not to go home.
speaker1: no, i got it.
speaker3: these are the rules that come with every electric guitar and every amplifier. they're not just

speaker1: happy birthday from us. 
speaker2: so penny our friend has gained another year. but long ago, she threw it in gear. she rocked the south the east and west. could you please get off this endless tour where we're black sabbath's special guest? laughter. russell she says she's retired though we've heard that before. she chose us... and in penny lane we trust she is a fan of this band. much more so than us.

speaker1: so it wasn't a birthday party, it was a farewell. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: you're worried about me and russell.
speaker2: yeah. i gotta work on that.
speaker1: you're so sweet. -- if there was more of you in him...
speaker2: don't tell me this stuff. i want to like him.
speaker1: did you miss your test or something? he shakes his head. it's so beyond a test. penny i know i'm not on the plane, and i'm not going on
speaker1: forget it. i'm flying to new york myself. i have a bunch of partial tickets. i know his ex-wife, current girlfriend's going to be there - william's eyebrows rise. she examines his face for clues.
speaker2: -- i'm not sure that's a good idea.
speaker1: what? what are you saying? what do you know? did russell say something?
speaker2: i don't know anything.
speaker1: i know he wants me there. he gave me a cake. he wrote me that sweet poem.
speaker2: wake up! don't go to new york!
speaker1: what are you telling me?
speaker2: because you're not who you said you were! i thought you were retired!
speaker1: you're right. i'm not who i said i was. i'm just like you. i love music, so this is my family. some people like tractors, and they hang out with
speaker2: that's a good one. tell me too much and make it not happy about it.
speaker2: you slept with
speaker2: so was steely dan! it was a crowded room.
speaker1: you make me laugh. i think i'm gonna cry.
speaker2: i thought we were going to morocco!
speaker2: when and where does the real world occur? i am really... confused here. all these rules and all these sayings... and nicknames...
speaker1: you know -- you're too sweet for rock and roll.
speaker2: where do you get off... where do you get "sweet?" i'm not sweet. i'm dark and mysterious and pissed-off.
speaker2: you fall in love to keep from falling in love.
speaker1: i don't want to go home!
speaker2: well, i have to go home. and you never helped me.
speaker1: yes i did.
speaker2: that disc-jockey in arizona got a better interview than me... and he was
speaker1: what kind of beer?

speaker1: who did this to us? 
speaker2: then don't come home. don't do this to me. if you're going to miss graduation, don't come home.

speaker1: " ... skyscrapers and everything." 
speaker2: we showed you america. we did everything but get you laid.

speaker1: i'm from the church of lenny. we bow to his will and all that it represents - the king of the king of kings. 
speaker2: make it out to - ?
speaker1: to
speaker3: leslie!
speaker4: your room is completely stocked, far away from any noisy ice machines, elevators or maid quarters. the air- conditioning is already on. and here is your security key -- by the way, you look stunning.
speaker5: thanksi'llseeyoulater.
speaker4: bags in five! cars leave for the party at six!
speaker6: well -- i kept thinking i was going home the next day --
speaker4: i did too. fifteen years ago.
speaker6: ric!
speaker7: it's all happening. zeppelin is at the plaza. so's four other bands. they're partying up there right now. sapphire, and miss penny lane too... she wants you to call her. they're all staying under the name emily rugburn. william takes in the information, while regarding ric's new custom shirt, which features the words to zeppelin's "the rain song."
speaker2: after the party. i'll come to your room - i promise. we'll talk. this is leslie, by the way. leslie, this is our wayward friend from
speaker8: william miller? sir, you have an urgent call from a mr. "ben fong-torres." he's holding for you, right now.
speaker6: hello.

speaker1: congratulations. it's gonna be a cover. neal preston will shoot 'em next week in l.a. we need you back in san francisco tomorrow. we'll finish the story here. 
speaker2: mojo?
speaker1: a mojo. it's a mojo.

speaker1: ah ha! there you are, ya little 
speaker2: i have some good news.
speaker1: -- i'll to that. follow me.

speaker1: dennis hope took me aside, and wants to manage me solo. says to lose the band by february. should i do it? i have no perspective anymore. william pees in silence. russell at what point do i just take the hint? nobody loves this band. people like us, do they love us? 
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: oh - get this - somebody told penny lane i sold her for beer. the network of these chicks! like i would do that. it's jeff who told her, right? not you, right? none of these guys can just calm down and be a

speaker1: you guys -- you guys -- you're gonna be on the cover of 
speaker2: she's with me.

speaker1: he looks in the backs of cabs. none of them her. 
speaker2: emily rugburn, please.

speaker1: hi. i'm a friend of penny lane's. 
speaker2: aren't we all - musician types are leaving.
speaker1: where is she?
speaker3: can somebody sign for this? william does. room service guy thank you mr. rugburn.
speaker4: she's sick. let's get out of here.
speaker5: she used to be so much more together.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker6: i'm not good at goodbyes. she sags. he grabs the phone. penny lane you're the last of my old-time friends. polexia went to england with deep purple... can you believe that? even sapphire's out someplace else. all she left was her quaaludes.
speaker1: oh --

speaker1: "in the unlikely event of a water landing... " 
speaker2: "... you will be required to wear a safety vest."
speaker1: keep going.
speaker2: "please place
speaker2: "and

speaker1: and now... out 
speaker2: "in the tragic event of a water landing..."
speaker1: and to the class of 1973, we say -- don't forget to remember yourself as you are
speaker3: please let there be only two, because i can't get past number one.
speaker4: second. leave a little room for the other teachers in this world. he's out there looking for mentors.
speaker3: he's got twelve of them. they're lined up. he's just tired of
speaker5: "... you will be required to..." i'm tired.
speaker2: well. now that i have your attention. and you may not remember this later, i just want to make it clear that...

speaker1: your wife will be okay for now - 
speaker2: thank you doctor.
speaker1: however, she says you're her brother.
speaker2: she's a little confused.
speaker1: nice champagne.
speaker2: i don't have a driver's license. with me.
speaker1: tomorrow's my wedding anniversary. i'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station. so if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to her parents, i'd let you pay me anything you can afford. because you don't appear to be related to the famous rugburns of rhode island.
speaker2: happy anniversary.
speaker1: she won't be good company, but keep her awake for another four hours.

speaker1: when i was 14, my mom and her boyfriend took me to a rolling stones concert - and i freaked out and i rushed up to the front of the stage and then a thousand people had the same idea at the same time and i was getting crushed. and i couldn't breathe and that thought flashed through me - almost like a car accident - i thought i might die. and it was in the middle of "midnight rambler" and keith richards saw me. and he came over, and came to the front of the stage, and he pulled me out. and they took me backstage and they gave me coke with ice and a - and a lemon. and i never went home. 
speaker2: what about your mom?
speaker1: she always said - "marry up." marry someone lady?
speaker1: lady goodman.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you never really get used to it, either.
speaker2: well -- this -- this just explains
speaker2: hey lady!

speaker1: why didn't you come back to the party? bob dylan showed up. he was sitting at our table for... had to be an hour, right? just 
speaker2: it's a log story.
speaker1: "peggy sure... peggy sue... "
speaker3: please.
speaker1: "pretty pretty pretty pretty peggy sue... " a moment of laughter, and then
speaker1: doris, we miss you!
speaker4: this is craig, your pilot. it appears we've caught the edge of that electrical storm we were trying to outrun. buckle up tight now. we're gonna do our best to getcha out of this.
speaker5: "electrical storm?"
speaker1: rock and roll.
speaker6: we're gonna try to land in tupelo. we're going to have to cut the inside lighting for the next several minutes. we found a field to land in.
speaker7: a field?
speaker5: i can't breathe.
speaker6: it might be a rough set-down. we should be fine. but what we do say in a situation like this is - we would pass but before the plane ... disassembled. however, help us, if there's anything you want to say to each other, any secrets, anything like that, now would be a good time. but just hang in there. we'll get you out of this.
speaker3: and everyone thinks it's so glamorous out here.
speaker8: he just told us we're gonna die.
speaker5: we're gonna crash in elvis' hometown --
speaker1: shut up.
speaker5: -- we can't even die in an original city!
speaker1: c'mon dennis, get us a better city.
speaker9: oh my
speaker10: just shaking. nearly in tears. hyperventilating.
speaker1: if something should happen. i love all of you. i don't think we have to do the secrets thing.
speaker7: i once hit a man in dearborn, michigan. a hit-and-run. i hit him and kept on going. i don't know if he's alive or dead, but i'm sorry.
speaker1: i slept with marna,
speaker5: i did too.
speaker8: i waited until you broke up with her.
speaker5: i also slept with leslie, when you were fighting.
speaker1: you... slept with jeff?
speaker9: yes, but it didn't count. it was the summer we decided to be free of all rules.
speaker1: and you say you "love me."
speaker5: i don't love you, man. i never did.
speaker1: please. enough.
speaker5: none of us love you. you act above us. you always have!!
speaker8: finally. the truth.
speaker5: you just held it over us, like you light leave... like we're
speaker9: i don't want to hear anymore. shut up! shut up! whatever happens, you're dead.
speaker5: don't be self-righteous, russell, not now. you were sleeping with penny, that groupie. last summer.
speaker2: "that groupie?" she was a
speaker6: thank above, we're alive!! we're

speaker1: leave your package at the desk. 
speaker2: i'm not a messenger. i'm one of your writers. william miller.

speaker1: you're william miller? 
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: oh baby.

speaker1: we can't run this piece. 
speaker2: you obviously saw more than you wrote about. after eight days on the road with these guys.
speaker3: didn't anything happen?
speaker1: and where are
speaker1: we can push up chet's who cover -
speaker4: good 'cause it's going to take me three days to get through this research. it's all handwritten, on little slips. plus, they all refer to woman as "chicks." i mean, as a woman i have a problem with that. i know it's a side issue.
speaker3: it's a "puff piece." you fell for 'em. it happens. a relationship forms. you want them to like you. happened with me and charlie manson.
speaker4: chet's piece is all fact-checked and ready.
speaker1: get some sleep. we'll do another story sometime. we'll get you a kill fee.
speaker4: his research is all on
speaker1: let him use the big office. it's where hunter used to write.
speaker4: you can type.
speaker5: yes. it took it in

speaker1: well, it was fun. 
speaker2: they make you feel cool. and hey. i met you. you are not "cool."
speaker1: i know. even when i though i was, i knew i wasn't.
speaker2: that's because we are uncool! and while women will always be a problem for guys like us, most of the great art in the world is about that
speaker2: yeah, great art is about conflict and pain and guilt and longing and love disguised as sex, and disguised as love... and let's face it, you got a big head start.
speaker1: i'm glad you were home.
speaker2: i'm always home! i'm uncool!
speaker1: me too!
speaker2: the only true currency in this bankrupt world if what we share with someone else when we're uncool.
speaker1: i feel better
speaker3: my advice to you. i know you think those guys are your friends. you want to be a true friend to them?
speaker2: be honest and

speaker1: read me the opening line. 
speaker2: "i am flying high over tupelo, mississippi, with america's hottest band, and we are all about to die."
speaker1: mmmmm. dark. lively.
speaker2: yeah, and it gets better. did this all really happen?
speaker3: give it to me. i'll call and check the quotes.

speaker1: look. let's just piece together our information... because the fact-checker asked us all about different parts of the story. 
speaker2: what did he write about? what's he using?
speaker1: it. all. he's using it all.
speaker3: so what?
speaker1: so what? we come off like amateurs... some average band... trying to come to grips, jealous and fighting and breaking up - we're buffoons!
speaker3: maybe we just don't see ourselves the way we really are.
speaker1: he was supposed to be our friend.
speaker3: i told him to write what he wanted.
speaker2: by the way, he has you on acid, screaming "i am a golden god" from a fan's rooftop.
speaker3: oh my
speaker1: they used him to us.
speaker3: i didn't say "golden god." or did i?
speaker4: we never took him seriously, and now it's serious.
speaker3: i liked him as a person.
speaker1: he was never a "person!" he was a journalist!
speaker3: you. you had the right idea all along.
speaker5: how about the plane flight?
speaker4: it's all in there. but don't worry, it's all unspecific who say what. no names are mentioned in the more embarrassing sequences, it's just completely obvious who's who! we're silence.
speaker3: i forgot he was there.
speaker5: well, they haven't talked to russell - he can always deny the key stuff to the fact checker. then they can't print it.
speaker1: is that true?
speaker5: it's war, my friend. if you'd met me earlier, he would have never been on the around. dennis hands russell the phone. dennis hope he'll live.

speaker1: the band just denied 90% of the story. it's a fabrication. 
speaker2: did you talk to russell?
speaker1: russell hammond is the one who denied it.
speaker3: crazy.
speaker1: we're going with the who - !
speaker4: he's just some
speaker5: powerful word. strong. final.

speaker1: i feel bad. 
speaker2: well, at least you feel. that puts you in a higher class of
speaker1: what did i do?
speaker2: well - you can do what the big boys do. nothing.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you believe these new girls? none of 'em take birth control, and they eat all the steak.
speaker2: the quaalude incident. yeah, it wasn't pretty. she could have died. i always warned her about letting too many guys fall in love with her. i guess i was wrong. on of 'em saved her life.
speaker1: well, it's finally over with leslie.
speaker2: let her retire. you want to lock her up in a house in michigan?
speaker1: i'm not going to blame myself. i do make people happy. they just shouldn't get to know me... 'cause it appears to spoil everything.
speaker2: don't be so easy on yourself.
speaker1: what gives you the right to get this personal with me.
speaker2: let's not reminisce.

speaker1: william? brother! 
speaker2: "the
speaker2: nice to finally meet you.
speaker3: you have a good day!
speaker1: you look awful, but that's
speaker1: hey. i'll take off work. let's have an adventure together. you and me, finally. anywhere you want to go.

speaker1: this is not my idea of a good time. 
speaker2: just get me to my bed.

speaker1: what are we going to do about him? 
speaker2: i don't know. whatever happened to him, i just wish it could have happened to me.
speaker1: the magazine killed his story.

speaker1: hi, i'm russel hammond. 
speaker2: you're here regarding?
speaker1: my life.

speaker1: i don't care what happens. i don't care if you put us on the cover. but you sent us a kid and... and he was a fan. and we all made friends with him - absolutely, to get a good story. but then we actually liked him. we thought he's... show us our lives in some mythic way and i guess... we're not mythic. we panicked. 
speaker2: you denied most of the story.
speaker1: yeah, well, here's the problem with the truth. it's too true -
speaker3: well, we appreciate the visit. the last time an artist came here, it was buddy miles and he punched me.
speaker1: i'm not punching anybody.
speaker2: it's too late. we're going with a different cover.
speaker1: thank
speaker1: maybe so. but forbid, the day comes when selling yourself is as important as the music you make. you might have died at the right time, my friend.
speaker2: thank you for visiting. good luck.
speaker1: do what you want, but the story is true.
speaker4: at the entrance. raises his hand. russell good evening!

speaker1: they're called pancakes. who knows when we'll be together again. splurge. it's what most people call breakfast. 
speaker2: i went through your records. and i found a song to play for you.
speaker3: bam. a bundle of bound

