speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: who is this?
speaker1: who are you trying to reach?
speaker3: what number is this?
speaker1: what number are you trying to reach?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: i think you have the wrong number.
speaker3: do i?
speaker1: it happens. take it easy.
speaker1: hello.
speaker3: i'm sorry. i guess i dialed the wrong number.
speaker1: so why did you dial it again?
speaker3: to apologize.
speaker1: you're forgiven. bye now.
speaker3: wait, wait, don't hang up.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i want to talk to you for a second.
speaker1: they've got 900 numbers for that. seeya. click! casey hangs up. a grin on her face.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: why don't you want to talk to me?
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: you tell me your name, i'll tell you mine.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: what's that noise?
speaker1: popcorn.
speaker2: you're making popcorn?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: i only eat popcorn at the movies.
speaker1: i'm getting ready to watch a video.
speaker2: really? what?
speaker1: just some scary movie.
speaker2: do you like scary movies?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: what's your favorite scary movie?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: you have to have a favorite.
speaker1: uh...halloween. you know, the one with the
speaker2: guess.
speaker1: uh...nightmare on elm street.
speaker2: is that the one where the guy had knives for fingers?
speaker1: yeah...freddy krueger.
speaker2: freddy-that's right. i liked that movie. it was scary.
speaker1: the first one was, but the rest sucked.
speaker2: so, you gotta boyfriend?
speaker1: why? you wanna ask me out?
speaker2: maybe. do you have a boyfriend?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you never told me your name.
speaker1: why do you want to know my name?
speaker2: because i want to know who i'm looking at.
speaker1: what did you say?
speaker2: i want to now who i'm talking to.
speaker1: that's not what you said.
speaker2: what do you think i said?
speaker1: i have to go now.
speaker2: wait...i thought we were gonna go out.
speaker1: nah, i don't think so...
speaker2: don't hang up on me.
speaker1: gotta go.
speaker2: don't...

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i told you not to hang up on me.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: to talk.
speaker1: dial someone else, okay?
speaker2: you getting scared?
speaker1: no-bored.
speaker1: listen, asshole...

speaker1: total silence. he has gotten her full attention. 
speaker2: is this some kind of a joke?
speaker3: more of a game, really.
speaker2: i'm two seconds from calling the police.
speaker3: they'd never make it in time.

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker1: who's there?
speaker2: casey almost drops it, losing her breath...
speaker3: you should never say "who's there?". don't you watch scary movies? it's a death wish.
speaker1: look, enough is enough. you had your fun now you better leave me alone or else.
speaker3: or else what?
speaker1: my boyfriend will be here any second and he'll be when i tell him...
speaker3: i thought you didn't have a boyfriend.
speaker1: i lied. i do have a boyfriend and he'll be here any second and your better be gone.
speaker3: sure...
speaker1: i swear it. and he's big and plays football and will beat the out of you.
speaker3: i'm getting scared.
speaker1: i'm telling you the truth.
speaker3: i believe you...
speaker1: so you better leave.
speaker3: his name wouldn't be steve, would it?
speaker1: how do you know his name?
speaker3: go to the back door and turn on the porch light--again.

speaker1: oh goddddd... 
speaker2: i wouldn't do that if i were you.
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: guess.
speaker1: please don't hurt him.
speaker2: that all depends on you.
speaker1: why are you doing this?
speaker2: i wanna play a game.
speaker1: no...
speaker2: then he dies. right now.

speaker1: which is it? 
speaker2: what kind of game?
speaker1: turn off the light.

speaker1: here's how we play. i ask a question. if you get it right-steve lives. 
speaker2: please don't do this...
speaker1: come on. it'll be fun.
speaker2: no...please.
speaker1: it's an easy category. movie trivia.
speaker2: ..please...
speaker1: i'll even give you a warm up question.
speaker2: don't do this. i can't..
speaker1: name the killer in halloween.
speaker2: no...
speaker1: come on. it's you favorite scary movie, remember? he had a white mask, he stalked the baby-sitters.
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: come on, yes you do.
speaker2: please..stop...
speaker1: what's his name?
speaker2: i can't think.
speaker1: steve's counting on you.
speaker2: michael...michael myers.

speaker1: but you're doing so well. 
speaker2: please go away! leave us alone!
speaker1: then answer the question. same category. casey is a blubbering, wet mass on the floor.
speaker2: ..please..no...
speaker1: name the killer in friday the 13th.
speaker2: jason! jason!...jason!
speaker1: i'm sorry. that's the wrong answer.
speaker2: no it's not. it was jason.
speaker1: afraid not.
speaker2: it was jason. i saw that godamned movie twenty times. it was jason.
speaker1: then you should know jason's mother -mrs.vorhees was the original killer. jason didn't show up until the sequel.
speaker2: you tricked me...
speaker1: lucky, for you there's a bonus round. but poor steve...i'm afraid...he's out.

speaker1: final question. are you ready? 
speaker2: ..leave me alone..please...
speaker1: answer the question and i will.
speaker1: what door am i at?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: there are two doors to your house. a front door and a back one. if you answer correctly-you live.
speaker2: don't make me...i can't...i won't.
speaker1: your call.

speaker1: that fish smelled strong. 
speaker2: i told you to send it back.

speaker1: jesus... 
speaker2: what is it? where's casey?
speaker1: casey? casey?

speaker1: where is she? 
speaker2: call the police.
speaker2: casey? where are you honey? call the police, goddammit.
speaker1: the phone's dead.
speaker3: ..help me...
speaker1: she's here, i can hear her. where's my baby?
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: i can hear her. oh mother of i can hear her.
speaker2: casey! casey!
speaker1: not my daughter...not my...
speaker2: get in the car and drive down to the mackenzie's.

speaker1: billy? what the... 
speaker2: i'm sorry. don't hate me.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: you sleep in that?
speaker1: my dad's in the other room.
speaker2: i'll only stay a sec. suddenly...
speaker3: what's going on in there?
speaker4: are you okay?
speaker1: can you knock?
speaker4: i heard screaming.
speaker1: no you didn't.
speaker4: no? oh, well...i'm hitting the sack. my flight leaves first thing in the morning. now the expo runs all weekend so i won't be back til sunday. there's cash on the table and i'll be staying at the raleigh hilton...
speaker1: ..out at the airport...
speaker4: ..so call if you need me.
speaker1: got it.
speaker4: i coulda swore i heard screaming.
speaker1: have a good trip.
speaker4: sleep tight, sweetie.
speaker2: close call.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: it just occurred to me that i've never snuck through your bedroom window.
speaker1: now that it's out of your system.
speaker2: and i was home, bored, watching television, the exorcist was on and it got me thinking of you.
speaker1: oh it did?
speaker2: yeah, it was edited for tv. all the good stuff was cut out and i started thinking about us and how two years ago, we started off kinda hot and heavy, a nice solid "r" rating on our way to an nc17. and how things have changed and, lately, we're just sot of...edited for television.
speaker1: so you thought you could sneak in my window and we would have little bump- bump.
speaker2: no, no. i wouldn't dream of breaking your underwear rule. i just thought we might do some on top of the clothes stuff.
speaker1: time to go, stud bucket.
speaker2: see what you do to me.
speaker1: you know what my dad will do to you?
speaker2: i'm going...i'm going.
speaker1: i appreciate the romantic gesture.
speaker2: hey..about the stuff. i'm not trying to rush you. i was only half serious.
speaker1: would you settle for a pg-13 relationship?
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: get outa here.

speaker1: do you believe this 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: oh you don't know? casey becker and steve forrest were killed last night.
speaker2: no way.
speaker1: and not just killed, sid. we're talking splatter movie killed-split open end to end.
speaker2: casey becker? she sits next to me in english.
speaker1: not anymore. her parents found her hanging from a tree. her insides on the outside.
speaker2: do they know who did it?
speaker1: clueless-they're interrogating the entire school. teachers, students, staff, janitors...
speaker2: they think it's school-related?
speaker1: they don't know. dewey said this is the worst crime they've ever seen. even worse than... well it's bad. they're bringing in the feds. this is big.

speaker1: ..a terrible tragedy. an unbearable loss. it's days like today we need prayer in school... 
speaker1: sidney. it appears to be your turn.

speaker1: who's up next? 
speaker2: sidney prescott.
speaker3: sidney prescott. she was daughter of...
speaker2: we all know sidney, mr. himbry.
speaker1: how she doin'?
speaker3: she's adjusted well. maintains an "a" average. you never know she...
speaker1: hi sidney.
speaker4: sheriff burke. dewey.
speaker2: it's deputy riley today, sid.
speaker1: how is everything?
speaker4: good.
speaker1: and your dad? how's he doing?
speaker4: we're fine. thanks.
speaker3: we'll be brief, sidney. the police have a few questions they'd like to ask you... sidney eyes them all nervously.

speaker1: hunt? why would they ask if you like to hunt? 
speaker2: i don't know, they just did.
speaker3: because their bodies were gutted.
speaker4: thanks randy.
speaker1: they didn't ask me if i like to hunt.
speaker2: because there's no way a girl could have killed them.
speaker1: that is so sexist. the killer could easily be female-basic instinct.
speaker3: that was an ice pick-not exactly the same.
speaker2: yeah, casey and steve were completely hollowed out. takes a man to do something like that.
speaker1: or a man's mentality.
speaker5: how do you gut someone?
speaker2: you take a knife and slit from the groin to the sternum.
speaker2: what? she asked.
speaker4: it's called tact, you fuckrag.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker3: remember in jaws when they caught the wrong shark at first and richard dreyfuss cut it open to look foe body parts and all they found was a licence plate and all this white milky goo.
speaker2: you heard billy-shut the up.
speaker5: hey, stu? didn't you use to date casey?
speaker2: for about two seconds.
speaker3: before she dumped him foe steve.
speaker1: i thought you dumped her for me.
speaker2: i did. he's full of
speaker3: and are the police aware you dated the victim?
speaker2: what are you saying? that i killed her or something?
speaker3: it would certainly improve your high school q.
speaker1: stu was with me last night.
speaker3: oooooh...before or after he sliced and diced.
speaker1: you, nut case. where were you last night?
speaker3: working, thank you.
speaker1: i thought blockbuster fired you.
speaker3: twice.
speaker2: i didn't kill anybody.
speaker4: no one's saying you did.
speaker3: besides- "takes a man to do something like that."
speaker2: i'm gonna gut your in a second.
speaker3: did you really put her liver in the mailbox? i hear they found her liver in the mailbox.
speaker1: randy, you goon-fuck, i'm eating here.
speaker2: yeah, randy, she's getting mad. i think you better liver alone.

speaker1: you sure i can stay over? my dad won't be back til sunday. 
speaker2: no prob. i'll pick you up after practice.
speaker1: tell your mom i said thanks.
speaker2: yeah, yeah...are you okay?
speaker1: uh-huh, it's just...you know, the police and reporters...it brings it all back.
speaker2: i'll be there by seven. i promise
speaker1: thanks, tatum.
speaker2: later.

speaker1: a news reporter fades in. 
speaker2: the entire nation was shocked today by the teen murders in north carolina...
speaker3: the state bureau of investigation has joined forces with local authorities to help catch what the governor has called the most heinous...
speaker4: this is not the first time the small town of bayboro has endured such tragedy. only a year ago, maureen prescott, wife and mother, was found raped and murdered...

speaker1: practice ran late. i'm on my way. 
speaker2: it's past seven.
speaker1: don't worry. casey and steve didn't bite it til way after ten.
speaker2: i'm not worried.
speaker1: good, 'cause i wanna swing by blockbuster
speaker2: whatever. just hurry.
speaker1: bye.
speaker2: tatum?
speaker3: hello, sidney.

speaker1: hi. who is this? 
speaker2: you tell me.
speaker1: i have no idea.
speaker2: scary night, isn't it? with the murders and all, it's like right out of a horror movie or something.
speaker1: aha, randy, you gave yourself away. are you calling from work? tatum's on her way over.
speaker2: do you like scary movies, sidney?
speaker1: i like that thing you're doing with your voice, randy. it's sexy.
speaker2: what's your favorite scary movie?
speaker1: don't start. you know i don't watch that
speaker2: and why is that?
speaker1: because they're all the same. it's always some stupid killer stalking some big breasted girl-who can't act-who always runs up the stairs when she should be going out the front door. they're ridiculous.
speaker2: are you alone in the house?
speaker1: that is so unoriginal. you disappoint me, randy.
speaker2: maybe that's because i'm not randy.
speaker1: so who are you?
speaker2: the question is not who am i. the question is where am i?
speaker1: so where are you?
speaker2: your front porch.
speaker1: why would you call me from my front porch?
speaker2: that's the original part.
speaker1: oh yeah? well i call your bluff.

speaker1: so where are you? 
speaker2: right here.
speaker1: can you see me right now?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: what am i doing?
speaker1: good try, randy. tell tatum to hurry.
speaker2: if you hang up, you'll die just like your mother. sidney stops dead in her tracks, speechless.
speaker2: do you want to die, sidney? your mother didn't. his seriousness unnerves her. sid flies off the handle.

speaker1: her boyfriend, staring at her, surprised. 
speaker2: oh billy...please...god...
speaker1: i heard screaming. the door was locked.
speaker2: he's here. he's trying to kill me...
speaker1: hey...wait...what's goin..

speaker1: we got him, sheriff. billy loomis. 
speaker2: hank loomis' kid? aw..jesus...
speaker1: he's her boyfriend.
speaker3: sheriff...i didn't do it...please, call my dad..please...
speaker1: i was first to respond.
speaker2: what were you doing out here?
speaker1: drive by patrol.
speaker2: how is she?
speaker1: she's tough.
speaker2: have to be. the she's gone through.
speaker2: we're seeing a lot of you today.
speaker1: you gonna be able to come down to the station and talk to us a bit?
speaker4: ..yeah...
speaker5: what happened? oh
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker5: oh, sid, i'm sorry i was late.
speaker1: you can't be here, tatum. this is an official crime scene.
speaker4: it's okay. she was supposed to pick me up.
speaker5: her dad's out of town. she's staying with us.
speaker1: does mom know?
speaker5: yes, you doofus.
speaker2: the vultures are coming. let's get you out of here.

speaker1: i'll be 
speaker2: what? what?
speaker1: the camera-hurry!
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker1: was that sidney prescott they took away?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: what happened to her?
speaker3: i'm not talking to you.
speaker2: where'd she go?
speaker1: look, kenny, i know you're about fifty pounds overweight but when i say hurry please interpret that as...move your

speaker1: did you reach my dad? 
speaker2: you're sure it was the hilton?
speaker1: at the airport.
speaker2: he's not registered. could he have gone to another hotel?
speaker1: i don't know. i guess.
speaker2: we'll find him, sid. don't worry.

speaker1: what are you doing with a cellular telephone, son? 
speaker2: it's my phone. he was just playing around with it.
speaker1: you got some ideas of playing around, boy.
speaker3: i didn't call anyone with it. i just took it for fun.
speaker2: everybody's got one now. why don't you check the phone bill for chrissakes. call my carrier--airfone comp. they'll have records of every number dialed.
speaker1: thank you, hank. we're on it. what were you doing out at sidney's tonight?
speaker3: i just wanted to see her, that's all.
speaker1: you rode your bike out there?
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker1: and last night? sidney said you crawled through her window last night too?
speaker2: you were out last night?
speaker3: i watched tv for awhile but the i felt like going for a bike ride.
speaker1: did you ride past casey becker's house?
speaker3: no, i didn't. i didn't kill anyone, sheriff.
speaker1: we're gonna have to keep you, billy. the governor's got sbi, fbi, and knows who else on their way down here. billy fights tears.
speaker3: this is crazy. i didn't do it.

speaker1: that ghost mask is sold at both kroger's and walmart. neither of which keep purchase records. 
speaker2: what about the cellular phone bill?
speaker1: they're pulling loomis' account. but it'll be morning before we see something.
speaker2: twenty years ago i woulda said not a chance. but these kids today...damn if i know.
speaker3: hey...dewey. can we go now?
speaker1: hold up a sec...
speaker2: she staying with you?
speaker1: we haven't located her dad yet.
speaker3: goddammit, dewey!
speaker1: what did mama tell you? when i wear this badge you treat me like a man of the law.
speaker3: i'm sorry, deputy dewey-boy but we're ready to go.
speaker2: use the back way. avoid the circus.

speaker1: i'll get the car. wait here. 
speaker2: hello sidney.
speaker2: some night. are you alright?
speaker2: what happened?
speaker3: she's not answering any questions. just leave us alone, okay?
speaker4: it's okay, tatum. she's just doing her job. right, gale?
speaker2: yes, that's right.
speaker4: how's the book?
speaker2: it'll be out later this year.
speaker4: i'll look for it.
speaker2: i'll send you a copy.

speaker1: i loved it. "i'll send you a copy." bam! went down. "i'll send you a copy." bam! sid--superbitch! 
speaker2: i thought you might want some ice for that right hook.
speaker2: i'll be right next door. try to get some sleep. dewey moves back out the door.
speaker3: any word on my dad?
speaker2: not yet, but we're looking. if you need anything...
speaker1: yeah, yeah, yeah...
speaker3: just another sleepover at the riley's.
speaker1: just like old times, ain't it?
speaker3: no, nothing's like it used to be.
speaker1: do you really think billy did it?
speaker3: he was there, tatum.
speaker1: i knew this guy was too perfect. he was destined to have a flaw.
speaker4: telephone, dear.
speaker1: who is it?
speaker4: it's for sid
speaker3: my dad?
speaker1: take a message.
speaker3: it's alright. i'll get it.
speaker4: how is she?
speaker3: hello?
speaker5: hello sidney.

speaker1: looks like you fingered the wrong guy...again. 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: hang up, sid.
speaker1: don't worry. you'll find out soon enough. i promise.
speaker4: dewey! dewey!
speaker1: this is gonna be fun, sidney. just like old times.

speaker1: i think you girls really should stay home today. 
speaker2: your objection is duly noted.
speaker3: i'd rather be around a lot of people, mama riley.
speaker4: ..broke into their home and savagely raped and tortured the deceased. cotton weary is currently awaiting appeal for the death sentence handed down after the young sidney testified against him. she was the key witness in the state's prosecution...
speaker3: it's never gonna stop. is it?
speaker5: billy was released. his cellular bill was clean. he didn't make those calls.
speaker3: somebody called me, dewey. i'm not making it up.
speaker5: i know. we're checking every cellular account in the county. any calls made to you or casey becker are being cross- referenced. it's gonna take time but we'll find him.
speaker3: and my dad? any word on him?

speaker1: hey, it's school. you'll be safe here. 
speaker2: how does it feel to almost be brutally murdered?
speaker1: leave the girl alone, will ya? she wants to go to school.
speaker3: come on, sid.
speaker4: just a sec...i need to talk to someone.

speaker1: stop right there. 
speaker2: i'm not here to fight.
speaker1: just stay back.
speaker2: i want to talk to you.
speaker1: kenny. camera. now.
speaker2: off the record. no cameras.
speaker1: forget it.
speaker2: please. you owe me.
speaker1: i owe you
speaker2: you owe my mother.
speaker1: your mother's murder was last year's hottest court case. somebody was gonna write a book about it.
speaker2: and it had to be you with all your lies and theories.
speaker1: what is your problem? you got what you wanted. cotton weary is in jail. they're gonna gas him. a book is not gonna change that.
speaker2: do you still think he's innocent?
speaker1: he was convicted in a court of law. your testimony put him away. it doesn't matter what i think.
speaker2: during the trial, you did all those stories about me. you called me a liar.
speaker1: i think you falsely identified him. yes.
speaker2: have you talked to cotton?
speaker1: many times.
speaker2: has his story changed?
speaker1: not one word. he admits to having with your mother but that's all.
speaker2: he's lying. she wouldn't have touched him. he raped her, then butchered her.
speaker1: he was drunk that night. he left his coat at your house, after your mother seduced him...
speaker2: i saw him leaving wearing it.
speaker1: but couldn't it have been someone else you saw wearing that coat? the same person who planted it in cotton's car, framing him? the same person who really killed your mother?
speaker2: no, cotton murdered my mother.
speaker1: you're not so sure anymore, are you?
speaker2: no, it was cotton.
speaker3: nice welt.
speaker1: the killer is still on the loose, isn't he? these murders are related.
speaker3: yo--let's rock.
speaker2: i'm sorry i mangled your face.
speaker1: wait, sidney, don't go...
speaker1: christ! an innocent man on death row. a killer still on the loose.
speaker4: you want to go live?
speaker1: no, not so fast. we have nothing concrete.
speaker4: when did that ever stop you? you can't sit on this. this is huge.
speaker1: if i'm gonna blow this up-i need hard proof.
speaker4: but it's so much easier when we make it up.
speaker1: not this time. i owe cotton that much.
speaker3: just relax. you're at school now. no one can get you here.
speaker2: but if it wasn't billy it could be anybody. he could be here at school right now.
speaker3: serial killers are smart by definition. they minimize their risk. they plan and pre-calculate everything. showing up here would be the most lame-brain move he could make.
speaker2: he promised me he'd be back.
speaker3: i wouldn't put too much stock in a psycho's promise.

speaker1: this is a mistake. i shouldn't be here. 
speaker2: i want you to meet me here right after class, okay?
speaker2: what is he doing here?
speaker1: i bet he's pissed.
speaker2: just ignore him. you had good reason to think what you did.
speaker3: hi, sid. can we talk a sec?
speaker2: you know if i were accused of carving up two people, i'd take the opportunity to skip school.
speaker4: hey, go easy, tatum. he didn't do it.
speaker3: talk to me, sid.
speaker1: why are they doing this?
speaker4: are you kidding? this is like christmas. billy punches stu in the side.
speaker4: owwww...
speaker3: you open your mouth and stupidity pours out.
speaker4: sorry.
speaker2: stay away from her, billy.

speaker1:  
speaker2: hey, hey, it's just me.
speaker2: what? you don't still think it's me?
speaker1: no...i don't...it's just...oh billy, someone was there, someone tried to kill me.
speaker2: the police say i scared him off. it wasn't me, sid.
speaker1: i know. he called again last night at tatum's house.
speaker2: see, it couldn't have been me. i was in jail, remember?
speaker1: i'm so sorry...please understand.
speaker2: understand what? that i got a girlfriend who would rather accuse me of being a psychopathic killer than touch me.
speaker1: you know that's not true.
speaker2: then what is it? is there somebody else?
speaker1: no...
speaker2: is it the thing? am i being too pushy?
speaker1: no, it's me, billy. i need time. i'm still adjusting to my mom.
speaker2: it's been a year since she died.
speaker1: tomorrow. one year tomorrow.
speaker2: when are you gonna let that go, sid? when my mom left my dad--i just accepted it. this is the way it is. she's not coming back.
speaker1: your parents split up. it's not the same thing. your mom left town, she's not in a coffin somewhere.
speaker2: you have to move on, sid.
speaker1: i'm glad to know you're coping so well with life, billy. but some of us aren't so perfect. some of us are just trying to hold on.

speaker1: she was never attacked. i think she made it all up. 
speaker2: why would she lie about it?
speaker1: for attention. the girl has some serious issues. sidney listens intently.
speaker1: what if she did it? what if sidney killed casey and steve?
speaker2: and why would she do that?
speaker1: maybe she was hot for steve and killed them both in a jealous rage.
speaker2: why would sidney want to be with steve? she has her own bubble-butt boyfriend billy.
speaker1: maybe she's a just like her mom.
speaker2: you're evil.
speaker1: please, it's common knowledge. her mother was a trollop.
speaker2: cut some slack. she watched her mom get butchered.
speaker1: and it her up royally. think about it. it makes perfect sense. her mom's death leaves her distraught and hostile at a cruel and inhumane world, she's disillusioned, where's etc. completely suicidal. and one day she snaps. she wants to kill herself but realizes teen suicide is out this year. and homicide is a much healthier therapeutic expression.
speaker2: where do you get this
speaker1: ricki lake.
speaker3: pathetic.
speaker4: siddneey...
speaker3: is someone there?
speaker4: it's me, sidney.

speaker1: i'm sickened. your whole havoc-inducing, thieving, whoring generation disgusts me. 
speaker1: two students have been savagely murdered. and this is how we express our compassion and sensivity? he rips the mask off the other student.
speaker1: we throw on a mask and dance around campus just hoping someone else gets butchered before we get bored again. you're both expelled.
speaker2: aw, come on, mr. himbry, it was just a joke.
speaker3: yeah, that's not fair.
speaker1: no, it's not fair. fairness would be to rip your insides out and hang you from a tree so you can be exposed for the desensitized, heartless little that you are.
speaker4: he's here...i saw him...he's here...
speaker1: easy child.

speaker1: she's okay. looks like some boys were teasing her. himbry's shutting down the school though. i want you to take look around. 
speaker2: yes, sir, sheriff.
speaker3: hi! gale weathers. field correspondent,

speaker1: i know who you are, ma'am. how's the eye? 
speaker2: productive. so they're closing down the school?
speaker1: well..uh...yes ma'am. for the time being.
speaker2: and why is that? has something happened?
speaker1: you're not supposed to be here, ma'am.
speaker2: i know, i should be in new york covering the sharon stone stalker but who knew? please, call me gale. you look awfully young to be a police officer.
speaker1: i'm twenty-five years old, ma'am.
speaker2: twenty-five, huh? in a demographic study i proved to be most popular amongst males, 11-24. i just missed you. of course, you don't look a day over twelve, except in the upper torso area. does the force require that you work out? dewey looks away, blushing a bit.
speaker1: no, ma'am. because of my boyish good looks, muscle mass has increased my acceptance as a serious police officer.
speaker3: "your attention please. due to the recent events that have occurred and until it comes to a resolve--effective immediately--all classes are suspended til further notice. the bayboro police dept. has also asked me to announce a city wide curfew beginning at 6 o'clock pm. i repeat..." gale speaks over mr. himbry's voice.
speaker2: boy, you people sure do make fuss over a serial killer.
speaker1: serial killer is not really accurate, ma'am. the killer has yet to strike twice.
speaker2: well, we can hope, can't we? we certainly don't have any leads. a ghost mask, a cellular phone--not much there.
speaker1: we're tracking the cellular phone bill.
speaker2: really? you small town guys are good.
speaker1: no, not yet.
speaker2: he's not a suspect, is he?
speaker1: we haven't ruled out that possibil...
speaker1: if you'll excuse me, ma'am.
speaker2: am i keeping you? i'm sorry.
speaker1: that's quite alright. if i may say so, ma'am, you're much prettier in person.
speaker2: so you do watch the show?
speaker1: i just turned 25. i was 24 for a whole year.
speaker2: you are precious. please, call me gale.

speaker1: it was just some sick having a laugh. 
speaker2: it was him, tatum. i know it.
speaker1: you are not to be alone again. is that clear? if you pee--i pee.
speaker3: is this not cool or what? hey, sid, what happened?
speaker1: for once, stu, drop it.
speaker3: okay, but whatever you did--the entire student body thanks you.
speaker3: and to celebrate this impromptu fall break, i propose we have a party.
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker3: my parents are out of town. it'll be like my hurricane bash last year. nothing extreme. just a few of us, hangin'.
speaker1: this could be good. what do you think, sid?
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: come on. pathos has it's perks.
speaker3: remember, there's safety in numbers.
speaker2: yeah, okay...whatever.
speaker3: cool. see you guys tonight. bring food.

speaker1:  
speaker1: yes? hello?

speaker1: maybe cotton weary is telling the truth. maybe he was having an affair with your mom. 
speaker2: so you think my mom was a too?
speaker1: i didn't say that, sid. but you know there were rumors. your dad was always out of town on business. maybe your mom was a very unhappy woman.
speaker2: if they were having an affair how come that cotton couldn't prove it in court?
speaker1: you can't prove a rumor. that's why it's a rumor.
speaker2: created by that little tabloid twit gale weathers.
speaker1: it goes further back, sid. there's been talk about other men.
speaker2: and you believe it?
speaker1: well...you can only hear that richard gere-gerbil story so many times before you have to start believing it.
speaker2: if i was wrong cotton, then he's still out there.
speaker1: don't go there, sid. you're starting to sound like some wes carpenter flick. don't freak yourself out--we've got a long night ahead of us.
speaker2: you're right. i'm cracking up. ignore me.
speaker1: come on, let's rock.

speaker1: how'd you do? 
speaker2: piece of cake. she'll be there.
speaker1: thanks, wart. you did good.
speaker2: so you gonna try and make up with sid?
speaker1: duh...that's quick.
speaker2: i was just asking. why are you always at me?
speaker1: because i'm trying to build your self- esteem. you're far too sensitive.
speaker2: oh....
speaker1: you ready to party hard tonight?
speaker2: you know it.

speaker1: this place is packed. 
speaker2: we had a run in the mass murder section.
speaker1: you coming tonight?
speaker2: yeah, i'm off early--curfew you know. now that's poor taste.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if you were the only suspect in a senseless bloodbath would you be standing in the horror section?
speaker1: it was all a misunderstanding. he didn't do anything.
speaker2: you're such a little lap dog. he's got killer printed all over his forehead.
speaker1: the why'd the police let him go?
speaker2: because, obviously they don't watch enough movies. this is standard horror movie stuff. prom night revisited.
speaker1: why would he want to kill his own girlfriend?
speaker2: there's always some stupid reason to kill your girlfriend. that's the beauty of it all. simplicity. besides, if it's too complicated you lose your target audience.
speaker1: so what's his reason?
speaker2: maybe sidney wouldn't have with him.
speaker1: she's saving herself for you.
speaker2: could be. now that billy's tried to mutilate her, you think sid would go out with me?
speaker1: i think her father did it. how come they can't find his ass?
speaker2: because he's probably dead. his body will come popping out in the last reel somewhere...eyes gauged. see, the police are always off track with this if they'd watch prom night they'd save time. there's formula to it. a very simple one. everyone's always a suspect--the father, the principal, the town derelict...
speaker1: which is you...
speaker2: so while they're off investigating a dead end, billy, who's been written off as a suspect, is busy planning his next hunting expedition.
speaker2: uh...hi, billy.
speaker3: maybe your movie-freaked mind lost it's reality button?
speaker2: you're absolutely right. i'm the first to admit it. if this were a scary movie, i'd be the prime suspect.
speaker1: and what would be your motive?
speaker2: it's 1995--motives are incidental.

speaker1: a party? mom's gonna kill you. then me. 
speaker2: don't be so self-righteous. it's just a little blow out--we'll be perfectly safe.
speaker3: look at this place, it's the town

speaker1: hey, i saw that movie. true story, 'bout some killer in texas. 
speaker2: hey, sid. just think if they make a movie about you. who's gonna play you?
speaker3: oh,
speaker1: i see you as a young meg ryan myself.
speaker3: thanks, dewey. but with my luck they'd cast tori spelling.

speaker1: i'll just be a few minutes. don't go far. 
speaker2: is billy going to be there tonight?
speaker3: he better not be. i told stu to keep his mouth shut. i think we can live without everybody's all american for one night.
speaker4: you girls gonna have to hurry it up.
speaker3: two minutes tops.

speaker1: dewey! where the you been, boy? 
speaker2: keeping my eye on sidney.
speaker1: listen up, dewey, because it's bad. real bad. aircomp just faxed us. the calls were listed to neil prescott--sidney's father. he made the calls with his cellular phone. it's confirmed.
speaker2: couldn't his cellular number have been cloned?
speaker1: there's more. guess what tomorrow is? the anniversary of his wife's death. it all fits. he's our man.
speaker2: have you contacted the bureau?
speaker1: they believe he's out of state by now. we'll keep roadblocks and curfew in effect through the night. if he's not picked up by morning--we'll do a house to house.
speaker2: you think he could still be in town?
speaker1: he'd have to be crazy. where's sidney?
speaker2: she's with my sister. should i bring her in?
speaker1: hold off for now. just stay close to her.
speaker2: she'll be with her friends over at stu maker's tonight.
speaker1: watch her. don't let on--just keep your eyes out.
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: billy's right. whenever he touches me, i just can't relax. 
speaker2: you have a few intimacy issues as a result of your mother's untimely death.
speaker1: but he's been so patient with me, tatum. you know, with all the stuff. how many guys would put up with a girlfriend who's sexually anorexic?
speaker2: billy and his don't deserve you.

speaker1: what do you think about when you're having sex? 
speaker2: with stu, there's little time to stop and reflect. but sometimes before, to relax and get in the mood, i think about grant goodeve.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: grant goodeve--the oldest brother on
speaker1: how does that get you in the mood with stu?
speaker2: during foreplay, i sing the theme song to myself. "eight is enough to fill our lives with love..." it's a real turn on.
speaker1: no way.
speaker2: grant wrote the song himself. i'm convinced the lyrics had a secret meaning, "eight is enough..."
speaker1: what secret meaning? like a satanical thing?
speaker2: watch the show, sid. his basket is bigger than the one you're pushing.

speaker1: oh, sidney. what? a guy can talk til he's dead but the minute you mention an eight inch weenie. watch out. 
speaker1: there's that sense of humor. i knew it still existed. ohh, sid, let's have some fun tonight.
speaker2: deal.
speaker3: you girls ready.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: looks like i'm your personal bodyguard tonight, sid.
speaker1: no, dewey. you'll ruin the whole night.
speaker3: sorry, police orders. i'll stay out of the way, i promise.
speaker1: 

speaker1: caterer's here. 
speaker1: that's mature.
speaker2: where you guys been? we had to start without you.

speaker1: what's the plan? 
speaker2: prep the compact, we'll hide it in a window and tape all of tonight's festivities.
speaker1: the control board's glitched. you know we can't carry a live picture.
speaker2: what's the delay?
speaker1: about thirty seconds.
speaker2: as long as it records i don't give a we're not doing a remote.
speaker3: evening, ma'am.
speaker2: deputy...good evening.
speaker3: what brings you out to these parts?
speaker2: you never know when or where a story will break.
speaker3: not much story here. just a bunch of kids cutting loose.
speaker2: then what are you doing here?
speaker3: keeping an eye on things. checking the place out.
speaker2: mind if i join you?
speaker3: not at all.

speaker1: i thought we'd make it a blockbuster night. 
speaker2: i thought everything was checked out.
speaker1: i had 'em hid in the foreign section.

speaker1: she's the scream queen. 
speaker2: with that set of lungs--she should be.
speaker3: tits--see.

speaker1: how many evil dead's? how many hellraiser's? hands go up. bickering ad-lib, etc. 
speaker2: i got it. tatum get me a beer. they're in the fridge in the garage.
speaker3: what am i? the beer wench?
speaker3: dewey!
speaker3: what is she doing here?
speaker4: she's with me. i just wanted to check on things.
speaker3: so you did--now leave...and take your media with you. tatum takes off for the kitchen.
speaker5: i watch your show regularly.
speaker2: this must be big news to be on inside

speaker1: huge. 
speaker2: wanna interview us?
speaker3: we could be like two grief stricken students and we'll say really nice things about our good friends who were slaughtered senselessly.
speaker4: i can cry on cue. gale eyes the bookshelf above the television.
speaker1: maybe later?
speaker1: can i trouble you for some water?
speaker4: how 'bout a beer? randy--get the lady a beer.
speaker3: you get it.

speaker1: have they found my father? 
speaker2: afraid not.
speaker1: should i be worried?
speaker2: not yet.

speaker1: is that you, randy? cute. 
speaker1: and what movie is this from? i spit on
speaker2: tatum takes a step towards the figure.
speaker1: lose the mask. if sidney sees it, she'll flip.
speaker1: oh, you wanna play psycho killer?
speaker1: can i be the helpless victim?
speaker1: okay, let's see. "no, please don't kill me, mr. ghostface. i want to be in the sequel."
speaker1: cut, casper. that's a wrap.
speaker1: randy--will you stop?
speaker1: you little

speaker1: billy? you scared me. 
speaker2: dude. what are you doing here?
speaker3: i was hoping sid and i could talk.
speaker1: if tatum sees you--she'll draw blood.
speaker2: you guys can go up to my parents room?
speaker3: subtlety, stu. look it up.
speaker1: it's okay. we need to talk.
speaker4: what's leatherface doing here?
speaker2: he came to make up.
speaker4: there goes my chance with sid.
speaker2: like you had one.

speaker1: got a picture. perfect placement. we can see everything. 
speaker2: tell me, kenny, has a cheesy tabloid journalist ever won the pulitzer?

speaker1: so... 
speaker2: so...i'm sorry. i've been a selfish and i'm sorry.
speaker1: no, billy. i'm the one who's been selfish and self-absorbed with all of my post traumatic stress.
speaker2: you lost your mom...
speaker1: but you're right--enough is enough. i can't wallow in the grief process forever and i can't keep lying to myself about who my mom was.
speaker1: i think in some weird analytical, psychological way i'm scared i'm gonna turn out just like her, you know? like the bad seed or something...
speaker2: oh sidney...
speaker1: everytime i get close to you i see my mom. i know it doesn't make sense.
speaker2: sure it does. it's like jodie foster in silence of the lambs when she kept having flashbacks of her dead father.
speaker1: but this is life. this isn't a movie.
speaker2: sure it is, sid. it's all a movie. life's one great big movie. only you can't pick your genre. billy moves to her. they embrace, tenderly.
speaker1: i wanna let go. i do...
speaker2: ssshh...everything's gonna be okay. i promise.
speaker1: why can't i be a meg ryan movie?
speaker2: sshh..it's okay.
speaker1: or even a good porno.
speaker2: what? she stares at him, her eyes sexually charged.
speaker1: you heard me.
speaker2: are you serious?
speaker1: yeah...i think so.

speaker1: look, here it comes. splat! 
speaker2: the blood's not the right color. why do they do that? it's too red.
speaker3: here comes another...
speaker4: predictable. knew he was going to bite it.
speaker5: how can you watch this over and over?
speaker3: shhhhh.
speaker6: i wanna see jamie lee's breasts. when do we see jamie lee's breasts?
speaker3: not until trading places in '83. jamie
speaker7: no way.
speaker3: that's why she always lived. only virgins can outsmart the killer in the big chase scene in the end. don't you know the rules?
speaker6: what rules?
speaker3: there are certain rules that one must abide by in order to successfully survive a horror movie. for instance: 1. you can never have sex. the minute you get a little nookie--you're as good as gone. always equals death. 2. never drink or do drugs. the sin factor. it's an extension of number one. and 3. never, ever, ever, under any circumstances, say "i'll be right back."
speaker6: wanna another beer?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker6: i'll be right back.
speaker3: there he goes folks--a dead man. wave bye-bye.

speaker1: sheriff just radioed me. i'm gonna check out a possible lead. thought you might like to join me. 
speaker2: what kind of lead?
speaker1: a car was spotted in the bushes a little ways up the road.
speaker2: i'd love to. if you're sure it's alright?
speaker1: ma'am, i am the deputy of this town.
speaker2: can i bring kenny?
speaker1: no! i mean...i should probably take just you.
speaker2: i'll be back.
speaker1: actually, i thought we could walk. it's not far.

speaker1: look, here comes the obligatory shot. 
speaker2: beautiful! finally!

speaker1: hello? yeah....holy 
speaker1: listen up. they found principal himbry dead. he was gutted and hung from the goal post on the football field.
speaker2: so what are we waiting for?
speaker3: let's get over there before they pry him down.
speaker1: we were just getting to the good part.

speaker1: who did you call? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: when you're arrested-you're allowed one phone call? who did you call?
speaker2: i called my dad.
speaker1: no, sheriff burke called your dad. i saw him.
speaker2: yeah...and when i called no one answered.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: you don't still think it was me?
speaker1: no, but if it were you, that would have been a very clever way to throw me off track. using your one phone call to call me so i wouldn't think it was you.
speaker2: what do i have to do to prove to you i'm not a killer?

speaker1: so is dewey your real name? 
speaker2: dwight. dewey was something i got stuck with a long time ago.
speaker1: i like it. it's... sexy.
speaker2: nah... it's just this town's way of not taking me serious.
speaker1: what about gale weathers? i sound like a meteorologist...
speaker1: people treat me like the antichrist of television journalism.
speaker2: i don't think you're so bad.
speaker1: are all the local boys as sweet as you?

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: looks like a car.
speaker1: it's neil prescott's car.
speaker2: sidney's father?
speaker1: we gotta get back. he's here. what the is he doing here?

speaker1: i'll call for backup. 
speaker2: i'll get my camera.
speaker2: kenny! camera! quick!
speaker2: kenny?
speaker2: dewey?
speaker2: dewey? where are you?

speaker1: sidney! 
speaker2: sid. we gotta get out of here.
speaker3: stop. right there.
speaker2: don't shoot. it's me.
speaker3: don't come any closer.
speaker2: listen to me, sid. i found tatum. she's dead, she's been killed...i think stu did it.
speaker1: don't believe him, sid.
speaker4: he's lying. he killed tatum. and billy.
speaker3: stay away.
speaker4: his movie nut mind has snapped, sid.
speaker2: don't listen to him. it's him. he's the one.
speaker4: come on, sid. give me the gun.
speaker2: no, sid.
speaker3: you both.

speaker1: please! help me! 
speaker2: having fun sidney?

speaker1: oh billy! 
speaker1: i thought you were...
speaker2: i'm alright. gotta...get...help.
speaker1: he's out there.

speaker1: please, you gotta let me in. he's gonna kill me. 
speaker2: no! don't believe him.
speaker3: it's okay. give me the gun.
speaker1: help me...
speaker3: shhhh. it's okay.
speaker1: stu's flipped out. he's gone mad.
speaker3: "we all go a little mad sometimes."
speaker3: anthony perkins--psycho
speaker4: who stands only feet away, face aghast...
speaker3: corn syrup. same stuff they used for pig's blood in carrie.

speaker1: stu...please...help me... 
speaker2: surprise, sidney.

speaker1: where ya going? it's not over yet. we've got one more surprise--stu, i believe it's your turn. 
speaker2: oh yeah stu disappears into the kitchen.

speaker1: daddy! 
speaker2: close enough.
speaker3: guess, i won't be needing this anymore.
speaker1: why are you doing this?
speaker3: it's all part of the game.
speaker2: it's called guess how i'm going to die!
speaker1: you.
speaker2: we already played that game. you lost, remember?
speaker3: you have to play, sid. don't want to disappoint your dad. he's been waiting around all night.
speaker2: it's an easy game. we ask you a question. if you get it wrong--you die.
speaker3: and if you get it right--you die.
speaker1: you're crazy--both of you.
speaker3: the official term is "psychotic".
speaker1: you'll never get away with this.
speaker2: tell that to cotton weary. you wouldn't believe how easy it was to frame him.
speaker3: yeah, we just watched a few movies. took a few notes. it was fun.
speaker1: why did you kill my mother?
speaker2: why? why? did you hear that, stu? i think she wants a motive. hmmm...i don't really believe in motives, sid. i mean, did norman bates have a motive?
speaker3: nope.
speaker2: and did they really ever explain why hannibal lecter liked to eat people? don't think so. you see, it's scarier when there's no motive, sid.
speaker1: i don't understand...
speaker2: we did your mom a favor, sid. the woman was a bag who flashed her all over town like she was sharon stone or something.
speaker3: ..so we put her out of her misery. i mean, let's face it, your mom was no sharon stone.
speaker2: is that motive enough for you? or how about this? did you know your mother was sleeping with my dad and she's the reason my mom moved out and deserted me.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: think about it. on the off chance i get caught-a motive like that could divide a jury for years, don't you think?. you took my mother, so i took yours. big sympathy factor. maternal abandonment causes serious deviant behavior. it certainly you up. it made you have with a psychopath.
speaker3: that's right and now that you're no longer a virgin. you gotta die--those are the rules.
speaker2: pretend this is all just a scary movie, sid. how do you think it's going to end?
speaker3: this is the best part, sid. billy's got it all figured out. why do you think we kept your father alive so long? why did we save you for last?
speaker2: you know what time it is, sid? it's after midnight. it's your mother's anniversary. we killed her exactly one year ago today.
speaker2: ready?
speaker3: yeah...
speaker3: jesus...
speaker3: good one. my turn.
speaker2: don't forget-stay to the side and don't go too deep.
speaker2: jesus...fuck, that hurt.
speaker1: stop it!
speaker2: got the ending figured out yet? time's running out.
speaker3: come on, sid. think about it. your father is the chief suspect. we cloned his cellular. the evidence is there.
speaker2: what if your father snapped? your mom's anniversary set him off and he went on a murder spree, killing everyone...
speaker3: except for me and billy...we were left for dead...
speaker2: and then he killed you and then shoots himself in the head. it's a perfect ending.
speaker3: everyone dies but us. we get to carry on and plan the sequel. let's face it, these days--you gotta have a sequel. stu takes the knife and cuts at billy.
speaker1: you sick fucks--you've seen one too many movies. billy looks at her, bent over, crazed.
speaker2: oh sid, don't blame the movies...movies don't create psychos. movies just make psychos more creative.
speaker3: that's it, billy. i can't take any more. i'm feeling woozy.
speaker2: get the gun. i'll untie pops.
speaker3: where'd you put it?
speaker2: it's on the table.
speaker3: no, it's not.
speaker2: where the is it?
speaker4: right here,

speaker1: i thought she was dead. 
speaker2: she looked dead. still does.
speaker3: i've got an ending for you. the reporter left for dead in the newsvan comes to, stumbles upon you two dipshits, finds the gun, fumbles your plan, and saves the day. sidney steps forward.
speaker4: i like that ending.
speaker1: she can't get both of us.
speaker2: odds are--she'll miss anyway.
speaker2: cool move.

speaker1: where'd she go? 
speaker2: i don't know billy but i'm hurtin'.
speaker1: where the did she go?
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: are you alone in the house?
speaker1: you bitch--where the are you?
speaker3: not so fast. we're gonna play a little game. it's called guess who just

speaker1: billy looks around the living room. 
speaker2: find her.

speaker1: i can't...i'm bad off, billy. you cut to deep. 
speaker2: so stu, what's your motive? billy's got one. the police are on their way. what are you going to tell them?
speaker1: peer pressure...i'm way to sensitive.
speaker3: i'm gonna rip you up just like your mother.
speaker2: gotta find me first, you pansy-assed mama's boy.
speaker4: you know what i hate most about horror movies? the final scene...it just goes on and on...and it gets so stupid...

speaker1: sid, you found me out...i'm a virgin. and pretty happy about it right now. 
speaker1: careful. this is the moment when you think the killer's dead, but then he springs back to life for one last scare.
speaker2: not this time.
speaker2: this is for my mom,
speaker2: and this billy stud-bucket is for having an incredibly small weenie.

speaker1: oh daddy... 
speaker2: i wanna close-up.
speaker3: this is probably an inappropriate moment, but you think you'd want to maybe go out with me sometime... like on a date?
speaker3: maybe catch a movie?
speaker1: only if it's a nice meg ryan movie.
speaker3: you got it.

