speaker1: we made it. i guess i was wrong, there was no danger at all. 
speaker2: cordã©...

speaker1: no!... no!... no!... 
speaker1: i should not have come back.
speaker2: m'lady, you are still in danger.
speaker2: this vote is very important. you did your duty and cordã© did hers. now come. m'lady, please!

speaker1: order! we shall have order! the motion for the republic to commission an army takes precedent, and that is what we will vote on at this time. 
speaker2: ...my esteemed colleagues, excuse me... i have just received some tragic and disturbing news. senator amidala of the naboo system... has been assassinated!
speaker2: this grievous blow is especially personal to me. before i became chancellor, i served amidala when she was queen. she was a great leader who fought for justice, not only in this honourable assembly, but also on her home planet. she was so loved she could have been elected queen for life. she believed in public service, and she fervently believed in democracy. her death is a great loss to us all. we will all mourn her as a relentless champion of freedom... and as a dear friend.
speaker3: how many more senators will die before this civil strife ends! we must confront these rebels now, and they need an army to do it.

speaker1: why weren't the jedi able to stop this assassination? we are no longer safe, under their protection. 
speaker2: the republic needs more security now! before it comes to war.
speaker3: must i remind the senator from malastare that negotiations are continuing with the separatists. peace is our objective here... not war.
speaker4: my noble colleagues, i concur with the supreme chancellor. at all costs, we do not want war!
speaker3: it is with great surprise and joy the chair recognises the senator from naboo, padmã© amidala.
speaker5: less than an hour ago, an assassination attempt was made against my life. one of my bodyguards and six others were ruthlessly and senselessly murdered. i was the target but, more importantly, i believe this security measure before you, was the target. i have led the opposition to build an army... but there is someone in this body who will stop at nothing to assure it's passage...
speaker5: i warn you, if you vote to create this army, war will follow. i have experienced the misery of war first-hand; i do not wish to do it again.
speaker5: wake up, senators... you must wake up! if you offer the separatists violence, they can only show us violence in return! many will lose their lives. all will lose their freedom. this decision could very well destroy the very foundation of our great republic. i pray you do not let fear push you into a disastrous decision. vote down this security measure, which is nothing less than a declaration of war! does anyone here want that? i cannot believe they do.
speaker2: my motion to defer the vote must be dealt with first. that is the rule of law.
speaker3: due to the lateness of the hour and the seriousness of this motion, we will take up these matters tomorrow. until then, the senate stands adjourned.

speaker1: i don't know how much longer i can hold off the vote, my friends. more and more star systems are joining the separatists. 
speaker2: if they do break away -
speaker1: no! i will not let that happen!
speaker2: but if they do, you must realise there aren't enough jedi to protect the republic. we are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
speaker1: master yoda, do you think it will really come to war?
speaker3: worse than war, i fear... much worse.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: what do you sense, master?
speaker3: impossible to see ... the dark side clouds everything. but this i am sure of - do their duty the jedi will.
speaker4: the loyalist committee has arrived, my lord.
speaker1: send them in.
speaker3: with you the force is strong... young senator. to see you alive brings warm feeling to my heart.
speaker5: thank you, master yoda. do you have any idea who was behind the attack?
speaker2: our intelligence points to disgruntled spice miners, on the moons of naboo.
speaker5: i don't wish to disagree but i think that count dooku was behind it.
speaker2: you know, m'lady, count dooku was once a jedi. he wouldn't assassinate anyone, it is not in his character.
speaker6: he is a political idealist, not a murderer.
speaker3: in dark times nothing is what it appears to be, but the fact remains senator, in grave danger you are.
speaker1: count dooku has always avoided any kind of conflict. it appears he has no desire to start a war.
speaker5: i don't know, but everything in my being tells me he was behind it...
speaker1: master jedi, may i suggest that the senator be placed under the protection of your graces.
speaker7: do you think that is a wise use of manpower during these stressful times?
speaker5: chancellor, if i may comment, i do not believe the...
speaker1: ..."situation is that serious." no, but i do, senator.
speaker5: chancellor, please! i don't want any more guards!
speaker1: i realise all too well that additional security might be disruptive for you, but perhaps someone you are familiar with... an old friend like... master kenobi...
speaker2: that's possible. he has just returned from a border dispute on ansion.
speaker1: you must remember him, m'lady... he watched over you during the blockade conflict.
speaker5: this is not necessary, chancellor.
speaker1: do it for me, m'lady, please. i will rest easier. we had a big scare today. the thought of losing you is unbearable.
speaker2: i will have obi-wan report to you immediately, m'lady.
speaker3: too little about yourself you worry, senator, and too much about politics. be mindful of your danger, padmã©. accept our help.
speaker1: i will not like this republiv, that has stood for over a thousand years, be split in two

speaker1: obi! obi! obi! mesa sooo smilen to see'en yousa. wahoooooo! 
speaker2: it's good to see you, too, jar jar.
speaker1: oops! wheresa mesa manners? excuse me, master obi-wan. i completely forgot myself for a moment there. i have had to learn diplodiaclect... speak it like a native now. don't really see the point, actually, but members of the senate seem to prefer it...
speaker1: ...and this, i take it, is your apprentice... nooooooooo! annie? noooooooo! little bitty annie? nooooooo! yousa so biggen! yiyiyiyyi! annie!! mesa no believen.
speaker3: hi, jar jar.
speaker1: annie! annie! yiyiyiyiyiyiiii!

speaker1: lookie... lookie... oops!... oh, dear, i'm afraid i've forgotten myself again. 
speaker2: it's a great pleasure to see you again, m'lady.
speaker3: it has been far too long master kenobi. i'm so glad our paths have crossed again... but i must warn you that i think your presence here is unnecessary.
speaker2: i'm sure the jedi council have their reasons.
speaker3: annie?? my goodness you've grown.
speaker4: so have you... grown more beautiful, i mean... and much shorter... for a senator, i mean.
speaker3: oh annie, you'll always be that little boy i knew on tatooine.
speaker2: our presence will be invisible, m'lady.
speaker5: i am very grateful you are here, master kenobi. the situation is more dangerous than the senator will admit.
speaker3: i don't need more security, i need answers. i want to know who is trying to kill me.
speaker2: we're here to protect you senator, not to start an investigation.
speaker4: we will find out who is trying to kill you padmã©, i promise you.
speaker2: we are not going to exceed our mandate, my young padawan learner.
speaker4: i meant in the interest of protecting her, master, of course.
speaker2: we are not going through this exercise again, anakin. you will pay attention to my lead.
speaker4: why?
speaker2: what??!!
speaker4: why else do you think we were assigned to her, if not to find the killer? protection is a job for local security... not jedi. it's overkill, master. investigation is implied in our mandate.
speaker2: we will do as the council has instructed, and you will learn your place, young one.
speaker3: perhaps with merely your presence, the mysteries surrounding this threat will be revealed. now if you will excuse me i will retire.
speaker5: well, i know i feel a lot better having you here. i'll have an officer on every floor and i'll be at the command centre downstairs.
speaker1: mesa busten wit happiness seein yousa again, annie. deesa bad times, bombad times.
speaker4: she didn't even recognise me, jar jar. i thought about her every day since we parted... and she's forgotten me completely.
speaker1: shesa happy. happier den mesa see-en her in longo time.
speaker2: anakin, you're focusing on the negative again. be mindful of your thoughts. she was glad to see us.
speaker4: yes, my master.

speaker1: why couldn't we see this attack on the senator? 
speaker2: masking the future, is this disturbance in the force.
speaker1: the propecy is coming true, the dark side is growing.
speaker2: and only those who have turned to the dark side can sense the possibilities of the future. only going through the dark side can we see.
speaker1: it's been ten years, and the sith still have no shown themselves.
speaker2: ...out there, they are. a certainty that is.
speaker1: do you think obi-wan's apprentice will be able to bring balance to the force?
speaker2: only if he chooses to follow his destiny.

speaker1: captain typho has more than enough men downstairs. no assassin will try that way. any activity up here? 
speaker2: quiet as a tomb. i don't like just waiting here for something to happen to her.
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker2: she covered that camera. i don't think she liked me watching her.
speaker1: what is she thinking?
speaker2: she programmed artoo to warn us if there's an intruder.
speaker1: it's not an intruder i'm worried about. there are many other ways to kill a senator.
speaker2: i know, but we also want to catch this assassin. don't we, master?
speaker1: you're using her as bait??
speaker2: it was her idea... no harm will come to her. i can sense everything going on in that room.
speaker1: it's too risky... and your senses aren't that attuned, young apprentice.
speaker2: and yours are?
speaker1: possibly.

speaker1: you look tired. 
speaker2: i don't sleep well, anymore.
speaker1: because of your mother?
speaker2: i don't know why i keep dreaming about her now. i haven't seen her since i was little.
speaker1: dreams pass in time.
speaker2: i'd rather dream of padmã©. just being around her again is...
speaker1: mind your thoughts, anakin, they betray you. you've made a commitment to the jedi order... a commitment not easily broken... and don't forget she's a politician. they're not to be trusted.
speaker2: she's not like the others in the senate, master.
speaker1: it's been my experience that senators are only focused on pleasing those who fund their campaigns... and they are more than willing to forget the niceties of democracy to get those funds.
speaker2: not another lecture, master. not on the economics of politics.... it's too early in the morning... and besides, you're generalising. the chancellor doesn't appear to be corrupt.
speaker1: palpatine's a politician, i've observed that he is very clever at following the passions and prejudices of the senators.
speaker2: i think he is a good man. my instincts are very positive about...
speaker1: i sense it, too.

speaker1: i have a bad feeling about this. 
speaker2: that was wacky! i almost lost you in the traffic.
speaker1: what took you so long?
speaker2: oh, you know, master, i couldn't find a speeder i really liked, with an open cockpit... and with the right speed capabilities... and then you know i had to get a really gonzo color...
speaker1: if you'd spend as much time working on your saber skills as you do on your wit, young padawan, you would rival master yoda as a swordsman.
speaker2: i thought i already did.
speaker1: only in your mind, my very young apprentice. careful!! hey, easy!!
speaker2: sorry, i forgot you don't like flying, master.
speaker1: i don't mind flying... but what you're doing is suicide!
speaker2: master, you know i've been flying since before i could walk. i'm very good at this.
speaker1: just slow down!
speaker1: wait! don't go in there!
speaker1: you know i don't like it when you do that!
speaker2: sorry, master. don't worry, this guy's gonna kill himself any minute now!
speaker1: what are you doing? he's gonna blast me!
speaker2: right - this isn't working.
speaker1: that was too close!
speaker2: clear that!
speaker1: what??
speaker2: clear the flag! we're losing power! hurry!
speaker1: whooooaaa! don't do that! i don't like it when you do that!
speaker2: so sorry, master.
speaker1: it's dangerous near those power couplings! slow down! don't go through there!
speaker1: yiiii, what are you doing?
speaker2: sorry, master!
speaker1: oh, that was good...
speaker2: that was crazy!!!
speaker2: ahh,
speaker1: stop!!
speaker2: no, we can make it.
speaker1: i'm crazy... i'm crazy... i'm crazy.
speaker2: but it worked... we made it.
speaker1: it didn't work... we've stalled!
speaker2: i think we're still alive.
speaker1: it was stupid!
speaker2: i could have made it...
speaker1: but you didn't!!! and now we've lost him.
speaker2: no we didnâ’t...
speaker1: where are you going?! he went down there, the other way.
speaker2: this is a shortcut... i think.
speaker1: what do you mean, â‘you think?â’ what kind of shortcut?! he went completely the other way! youâ’ve lost him!
speaker2: master, if we keep this chase going, that creepâ’s gonna end up deep fried. personally, iâ’d very much like to find out who in the he is and who heâ’s working for...
speaker1: oh, so thatâ’s why weâ’re going in the wrong direction.
speaker1: well, you lost him.
speaker2: iâ’m deeply sorry, master.
speaker2: excuse me for a moment.

speaker1: anakin! 
speaker2: she went into that club, master.
speaker1: patience.
speaker1: here. next time try not to lose it.
speaker2: sorry, master.
speaker1: a jedi's saber is his most precious possession.
speaker2: yes, master.
speaker1: he must keep it with him at all times.
speaker2: i know, master.
speaker1: this weapon is your life!
speaker2: i've heard this lesson before...
speaker1: but, you haven't learned anything, anakin.
speaker2: i try, master.

speaker1: why do i think you are going to be the death of me?! 
speaker2: don't say that master... you're the closest thing i have to a father... i love you. i don't want to cause you pain.
speaker1: then why don't you listen to me?!
speaker2: i will. i'll do better, i promise.
speaker1: do you see him him?
speaker2: i think he's a she...
speaker1: then be extra careful... check it out.
speaker2: where are you going, master?
speaker1: to get a drink.
speaker3: wanna buy some death sticks?
speaker1: you don't want to sell me death- sticks.
speaker4: i don't want to sell you death- sticks.
speaker1: you want to go home and rethink your life.

speaker1: do you know who it was you were trying to kill? 
speaker2: the senator from naboo.
speaker1: who hired you?
speaker2: it was just a job.
speaker3: tell us!
speaker2: that senator's gonna die soon anyway, and the next one won't make the same mistake i did...
speaker1: this wound's going to need treatment.
speaker3: who hired you? tell us... tell us now!

speaker1: representative binks. i know i can count on you. 
speaker2: yousa betchen mesa bottums.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: oh, pardone-ay, senator. i mean, i am honoured to accept this heavy burden. i take on this responsibility with deep humility tinged with an overwhelming pride. it is not every day that i am called upon to...
speaker1: you're a good friend, jar jar. i don't wish to hold you up. i'm sure you have a great deal to do.
speaker2: of course, m'lady.
speaker1: i do not like this idea of hiding.
speaker3: don't worry. now that the council has ordered an investigation, it won't take master obi-wan long to find that bounty hunter.
speaker1: i haven't worked for a year to defeat the "military creation act" not to be here when its fate is decided.
speaker3: sometimes we have to let go of our pride and do what is requested of us.
speaker1: pride?!? annie, you're young, and you don't have a very firm grip on politics. i suggest you reserve your opinions for some other time.
speaker3: sorry, m'lady. i was only trying to...
speaker1: annie! no!
speaker3: please don't call me that.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: annie...
speaker1: i've always called you that... it is your name, isn't it?
speaker3: it's anakin. when you say annie it's like i'm still a little boy... and i'm not.
speaker1: i'm sorry, anakin. it's impossible to deny you've... ...that you've grown up.
speaker3: master obi-wan manages not to see it...
speaker1: mentors have a way of seeing more of our faults than we would like.
speaker3: don't get me wrong... obi-wan is a great mentor. as wise as master yoda and as powerful as master windu. i am truly thankful to be his apprentice. only... although i'm a padawan learner, in some ways... a lot of ways... i'm ahead of him. i'm ready for the trials. i know i am! he knows it too. he believes i'm too unpredictable... other jedi my age have gone through the trials and made it... i know i started my training late... but he won't let me move on.
speaker1: that must be frustrating.
speaker3: it's worse... he's overly critical. he never listens! he just doesn't understand! it's not fair!
speaker1: i'm sorry... you sounded exactly like that little boy i once knew, when he didn't get his way.
speaker3: i'm not whining! i'm not.
speaker1: i didn't say it to hurt you.
speaker3: i know...
speaker4: anakin...
speaker1: don't try to grow up too fast.
speaker3: i am grown up. you said it yourself.
speaker1: please don't look at me like that.
speaker3: why not?
speaker1: because i can see what you're thinking.
speaker3: ahh... so, you have jedi powers too?
speaker1: it makes me feel uncomfortable.
speaker3: sorry, m'lady.

speaker1: be safe, m'lady. 
speaker2: thank you, captain. take good care of dorme... the threat's on you two now.
speaker3: he'll be safe with me.
speaker2: you'll be fine.
speaker3: it's not me, m'lady. i worry about you. what if they realise i'm not you?
speaker2: then my jedi protector will have to prove how grown up he is.
speaker4: anakin, you stay put on naboo. do not attract any attention. do absolutely nothing without checking in with me or the council.
speaker5: yes, master.
speaker4: i will get to the bottom of this plot quickly, m'lady. you'll be back here in no time.
speaker2: i will be most grateful for your speed, master jedi.
speaker5: time to go.
speaker2: i know.
speaker4: may the force be with you.
speaker5: may the force be with you, master. they head off toward the giant starfreighter.
speaker2: suddenly, i'm afraid...
speaker5: i'm kinda scared too. this is my first assignment on my own.
speaker2: there's nothing to worry about... we have artoo with us. the two laugh.
speaker4: i hope he doesn't try anything foolish.
speaker1: i'd be more concerned about her doing something, than him.

speaker1: place the subject for analysis on the sensot tray, please. 
speaker2: it's a toxic dart. i need to know where it came from and who made it.
speaker1: one moment, please.
speaker1: as you can see on your screen, subject weapon does not exist in any known culture. markings cannot be identified. probablt self-made by a warrior not associated with any known society.
speaker2: excuse me? could you try again please?
speaker1: master jedi, our records are very thorough. they cover eight percent of the galaxy. if i can't tell you where it came from, nobody can.
speaker2: thanks for your assistance! you may not be able to figure this out, but i think i know someone who might.

speaker1: keep moving! keep moving! 
speaker2: hey! no droids!
speaker3: no, no, mom, no...
speaker3: what?
speaker4: you seemed to be having a nightmare.
speaker4: are you hungry?
speaker3: thank you.
speaker4: we went into lightspeed a while ago.
speaker3: i look forward to seeing naboo again. i've thought about it every day since i left. it's by far the most beautiful place i've ever seen...
speaker4: you were just a little boy then. it may not be as you remember it; time changes your perception.
speaker3: i think time has given me much more mature feelings to enhance my perception.
speaker4: it must be difficult having sworn your life to the jedi... not being able to visit the places you like... or do the things you like...
speaker3: or be with the people i love.
speaker4: are you allowed to love? i thought that was forbidden for a jedi.
speaker3: attachment is forbidden. possession is forbidden. compassion, which i would define as unconditional love, is central to a jedi's life, so you might say we're encouraged to love.
speaker4: you have changed so much
speaker3: you haven't changed a bit. you're exactly the way i remember you in my dreams. i doubt if naboo has changed much either.
speaker4: it hasn't...
speaker3: i can't wait to breathe the sweet breeze that comes off the rolling hills. whenever i try to visualise the force, those hills are what i see.
speaker3: i love naboo.
speaker4: were you dreaming about you mother earlier, weren't you?
speaker3: yes... i left tatooine so long ago, my memory of her is fading. i don't want to lose it. recently i've been seeing her in my dreams... vivid dreams... scary dreams. i worry about her.

speaker1: can i help ya? 
speaker2: i'm looking for dexter.
speaker3: waddya want him for?
speaker2: he's not in trouble. it's personal.
speaker3: someone to see ya, honey a jedi, by the looks of him.
speaker4: obi-wan!
speaker2: hey, dex.
speaker4: take a seat! be right with ya!
speaker3: you want a cup of ardees?
speaker2: thank you.
speaker4: hey, ol' buddy!
speaker2: hey, dex.
speaker4: so, my friend. what can i do for ya?
speaker2: you can tell me what this is.
speaker4: well, whattaya know...
speaker4: i ain't seen one of these since i was prospecting on subterrel beyond the outer rim!
speaker2: do you know where it came from?
speaker4: this baby belongs to them cloners. what you got here is a kamino kyberdart.
speaker2: kamino kyberdart... i wonder why it didn't show up in any analysis archive.
speaker4: it's these funny little cuts on the side give it away... those analysis droids you've got over there only focus on symbols, you know. i should think you jedi would have more respect for the difference between knowledge and wisdom.
speaker2: well, dex, if droids could think, we wouldn't be here, would we? kamino... doesn't sound familiar.
speaker4: no, it's beyond the outer rim. i'd say about twelve parsecs outside the rishi maze, toward the south. it should be easy to find, even for those droids in your archive to find. those kaminoans keep to themselves. they're cloners. good ones, too.
speaker2: cloners? are they friendly?
speaker4: it depends.
speaker2: on what, dex?
speaker4: on how good your manners are...

speaker1: if i grew up here, i don't think i'd ever leave. 
speaker2: i doubt that.
speaker1: no, really. when i started my training, i was very homesick and very lonely. this city and my mom were the only pleasant things i had to think about... the problem was, the more i thought about my mom, the worse i felt. but i would feel better if i thought about the palace - the way it shimmers in the sunlight - the way the air always smells of flowers...
speaker2: ...and the soft sound of the distant waterfalls. the first time i saw the capital, i was very young... i'd never seen a waterfall before. i though they were so beautiful... i never dreamed one day i'd live in the palace.
speaker1: well, tell me, did you dream of power and politics when you were a little girl?
speaker2: no! that was the last thing i thought of. my dream was to help in the "refugee relief movement." i never thought of running for elected office. but the more history i studied, the more i realised how much good politicians could do. so when i was eight, i joined the "apprentice legislators", then later on became a senatorial advisor, with such a passion that, before i knew it, i was elected queen. partly because i scored so high on my education certificate, but for the most part it was my conviction that reform was possible. i wasn't the youngest queen ever elected, but now that i think back on it, i'm not sure i was old enough. i'm not sure i was ready.
speaker1: the people you served thought you did a good job. i heard they tried to amend the constitution so you could stay in office.
speaker2: popular rule is not democracy, annie. it gives the people what they want, not what they need. and, truthfully, i was relieved when my two terms were up. so were my parents. they worried about me during the blockade and couldn't wait for it all to be over. actually, i was hoping to have a family by now... my sisters have the most amazing, wonderful kids... but when the queen asked me to serve as senator, i couldn't refuse her.
speaker1: i agree! i think the republic needs you... i'm glad you chose to serve. i feel things are going to happen in our generation that will change the galaxy in profound ways.
speaker2: i think so too.

speaker1: we've been worried about you. i'm so glad you're safe, padmã©. 
speaker2: thank you, your highness. i only wish i could have served you better by staying on coruscant for the vote.
speaker3: given the circumstances, senator, you know it was the only decision her highness could have made.
speaker1: how many systems have joined count dooku and the separatists?
speaker2: about two hundred. and more are leaving the republic every day. if the senate votes to create an army, i'm sure it's going to push us into a civil war.
speaker3: it's unthinkable! there hasn't been a full-scale war since the formation of the republic!
speaker1: do you see any way, through negotiations, to bring the separatists back into the republic?
speaker2: not if they feel threatened. the separatists don't have an army, but if they are provoked, they will move to defend themselves. i'm sure of that. and with no time or money to build an army, my guess is they will turn to the commerce guilds or the trade federation for help.
speaker1: the armies of commerce! why has nothing been done in the senate to restrain them?
speaker2: i'm afraid that, despite the chancellor's best efforts, there are still many bureaucrats, judges, and even senators on the payrolls of the guilds.
speaker3: it's outrageous! after all of those hearings, and the four trials in the supreme court, nute gunray is still the viceroy of the trade federation. do those money mongers control everything?
speaker1: remember, counsellor, the courts were able to reduce the federation's armies. that's a move in the right direction.
speaker2: there are rumours, your highness, that the federation army was not reduced as they were ordered.
speaker4: the jedi have not been allowed to investigate. it would be to be too dangerous for the economy, we were told.
speaker1: we must keep our faith in the republic. the day we stop believing democracy can work is the day we lose it.
speaker2: let's pray that day never comes.
speaker1: in the meantime, we must consider your own safety.
speaker3: what is your suggestion, master jedi?
speaker2: anakin's not a jedi yet, counsellor. he's still a padawan learner. i was thinking...
speaker4: hey, hold on a minute!
speaker2: excuse me! i was thinking i would stay in the lake country. there are some places up there that are very isolated.
speaker4: excuse me?! i am in charge of security here, m'lady.
speaker2: annie, my life is at risk, and this is my home. i know it very well... that is why we're here. i think it would be wise for you to take advantage of my knowledge in this instance.
speaker4: sorry, m'lady.
speaker3: she is right. the lake country is the most remote part of naboo. not many people and a clear view of the surrounding terrain.
speaker1: perfect. it's settled then.
speaker1: padmã©, i had an audience with your father yesterday. i told him what was happening. he hopes you will visit your mother before you leave... your family's very worried about you.

speaker1: did you call for assistance? 
speaker2: yes... yes, i did...
speaker1: he has a powerful face, doesn't he? he was one of the most brilliant jedi i have had the privilege of knowing.
speaker2: i never understood why he quit. only twenty jedi have ever left the order.
speaker1: the lost twenty... and count dooku was the most recent and the most painful. no one likes to talk about it. his leaving was a great loss to the order.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: well, one might say, he was always a bit out of step with the decisions of the council... much like your old master, qui-gon jinn.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: oh, yes. they were alike in many ways. very individual thinkers... idealists...
speaker2: interesting... i'm still not sure i understand.
speaker1: well, i'm sure you didn't call me over here for a history lesson. are you having a problem, master kenobi?
speaker2: yes, i'm trying to find a planet system called kamino. it doesn't seem to show upon any of the archive charts.
speaker1: kamino? it's not a system i'm familiar with... let me see...
speaker1: are you sure you have the right co-ordinates?
speaker2: according to my information, it should be in this quadrant somewhere... just south of the rishi maze.
speaker1: no co-ordinates? it sounds like the kind of directions you'd get from a street tout... some old miner or furbog trader.
speaker2: all three actually.
speaker1: are you sure it exists?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: let me do a gravitational scan.
speaker1: there are some inconsistencies here. maybe the planet you're looking for was destroyed.
speaker2: wouldn't that be on record?
speaker1: it ought to be. unless it was very recent. i hate to say it, but it looks like the system you're searching for doesn't exist.
speaker2: that's impossible... perhaps the archives are incomplete.
speaker1: the archives are comprehensive and totally secure, my young jedi. one thing you may be absolutely sure of - if an item does not appear in our records, it does not exist!

speaker1: there's my house! 
speaker1: what? don't say you're shy!
speaker2: no, but i...
speaker3: aunt padme!! aunt padme!!
speaker1: ryoo!! pooja!! padme scoops up ryoo and pooja and hugs them.
speaker1: i'm so happy to see you! this is anakin. anakin, this is ryoo, and this is pooja.
speaker3: artoo!!!

speaker1: they're eating over at jev narran's later, mom. they just had a snack. they'll be fine. 
speaker2: anakin, this is my sister, sola.
speaker1: hello, anakin.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: you're just in time for dinner. i hope you're hungry, anakin.
speaker3: a little.
speaker2: he's being polite, mom. we're starving.
speaker5: you came to the right place at the right time. sit down, son.
speaker4: honey, it's so good to see you safe. we were so worried.
speaker5: dear...
speaker4: i know, i know... but i had to say it. now it's done.
speaker1: well, this is exciting! do you know, anakin, you're the first boyfriend my sister's ever brought home?
speaker2: sola!! he isn't my boyfriend! he's a jedi assigned by the senate to protect me.
speaker6: a bodyguard?! oh, padme! they didn't tell us it was that serious!
speaker2: it's not, mom, i promise. anyway, anakin's a friend. i've known him for years. remember that little boy who was with the jedi during the blockade crisis?
speaker2: he grew up.
speaker4: honey, when are you going to settle down? haven't you had enough of that life? i certainly have!
speaker2: mom, i'm not in any danger.
speaker5: is she?
speaker3: ...yes... i'm afraid she is.
speaker2: but not much.
speaker5: sometimes i wish i'd traveled more... but i must say, i'm happy here.
speaker3: padme tells me you teach at the university?
speaker5: yes, and before that, i was a builder. i also worked for the refugee relief movement, when i was very young.
speaker1: why haven't you told us about him?
speaker7: what's there to talk about? he's just a boy.
speaker1: a boy? have you seen the way he looks at you?
speaker7: sola - stop it!
speaker1: it's obvious he has feelings for you. are you saying, little baby sister, that you haven't noticed?
speaker7: i'm not your baby sister, sola. anakin and i are friends... our relationship is strictly professional. mom, would you tell her to stop it?
speaker1: well, maybe you haven't noticed the way he looks at you. i think you're afraid to.
speaker7: cut it out.
speaker4: sola's just concerned... we all are.
speaker7: oh, mom, you're impossible. what i'm doing is important.
speaker4: you've done your service, padmã©. it's time you had a life of your own. you're missing so much!

speaker1: now tell me, son. how serious is this thing? how much danger is my daughter really in? 
speaker2: there have been two attempts on her life. chances are there'll be more. my master is tracking down the assassins. i'm sure he'll find out who they are. this situation, won't last long.
speaker1: i don't want anything to happen to her.
speaker2: i don't either.
speaker3: don't worry, this won't take long.
speaker2: i just want to get there before dark.
speaker2: you still live at home.
speaker3: i move around so much, i've never had a place of my own. official residences have no warmth. i feel good here. i feel at home.
speaker2: i never had a real home. home was always where my mom was.
speaker2: is this you?
speaker3: that was when i went with the relief group to shadda-bi-boran. their sun was imploding, and the planet was dying. i was helping to relocate the children. see that little one i'm holding? his name was n'a-kee-tula, which means sweethear. he was so full of life,. all those kids were. i did everything i could to save him, but he died... they all did. they were never able to adapt... to live off their native planet.
speaker3: my first day as an apprentice legislator. notice the difference?

speaker1: don't think... feel... be as one with the force. help you, it will. younglings - enough! a visitor we have. welcome him. 
speaker1: master obi-wan kenobi, meet the mighty bear clan.
speaker2: welcome, master obi-wan!
speaker3: i am sorry to disturb you, master.
speaker1: what help to you, can i be?
speaker3: iâ’m looking for a planet described to me by an old friend. i trust him. but the system doesnâ’t show up on the archive maps.
speaker1: an interesting puzzle. gather round the map reader, younglings. master obi-wan has lost a planet. find it, we will try...
speaker3: this is where it ought to be... but it isnâ’t. gravity is pulling all the stars in this area inward to this spot. there should be a star here... but there isnâ’t.
speaker1: most interesting. gravityâ’s silhouette remains, but the star and all its planets have disappeared. how can this be?
speaker4: because someone erased it from the archive memory.
speaker2: thatâ’s right! yes! thatâ’s what happened! someone erased it!
speaker5: if the planet blew up, the gravity would go away.
speaker1: truly wonderful, the mind of a child is. uncluttered. to the centre of the pull of gravity go, and find your planet you will.
speaker3: but master yoda who could have erased information from the archives? thatâ’s impossible, isnâ’t it?
speaker1: much harder to answer, that question is.

speaker1: when i was in level three, we used to come here for school retreat. see that island? we used to swim there every day. i love the water. 
speaker2: i do too. i guess it comes from growing up on a desert planet.
speaker1: ...we used to lie on the sand and let the sun dry us... and try to guess the names of the birds singing.
speaker2: i donâ’t like sand. itâ’s coarse and rough and irritating, and it gets everywhere. not like here. here everythingâ’s soft... and smooth...
speaker1: there was a very old man who lived on the island. he used to make glass out of sand - and vases and necklaces out of the glass. they were magical.
speaker2: everything here is magical.
speaker1: you could look into the glass and see the water. the way it ripples and moves. it looked so real...
speaker2: sometimes, when you believe something to be real, it becomes real. real enough, anyway...
speaker1: i used to think if you looked too deeply into glass, you would lose yourself.
speaker2: i think it's true...
speaker1: i shouldn't have done that.
speaker2: i'm sorry. when i'm around you, my mind is no longer my own.
speaker1: it's the situation... the stress...
speaker2: ...the view.

speaker1: be wary, this disturbance in the force is growing stronger. 
speaker2: i am concerned for my padawan. he is not ready to be on his own.
speaker3: the council is confident in this decision, obi-wan.
speaker4: he has exceptional skills. the council is confident in its decision, obi-wan. if the prophecy is true, he weill be the one to bring balance to the force.
speaker2: but he still has much to learn. and his abilities have made him... well... arrogant. i realise now what you and master yoda knew from the beginning... the boy was too old to start the training and...
speaker1: there's something else?
speaker2: master, he should not have been given this assignment. i'm afraid anakin won't be able to protect the senator.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: he has a... an emotional connection with her. it's been there since he was boy. now he's confused... distracted.
speaker5: obi-wan, you must have faith that he will take the right path.
speaker2: has master yoda gained any insight into whether or not this war will come about?
speaker1: probing the dark side is a dangerous process. he could be in seclusion for days... may the force be with you.

speaker1: you did that? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that! now stop it!
speaker1: anakin!!
speaker2: i'm not really supposed to do that... for fun, i mean. if master obi-wan were here, he'd be very grumpy.

speaker1: may i tell you something? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: then how can i tell you?
speaker2: maybe you should use your jedi intuition.
speaker1: it doesn't work around you. my mind is always a muddle... i can only think of you.
speaker2: anakin, don't...
speaker1: from the moment i met you, all those years ago, a day hasn't gone by when i haven't thought of you. and now that i'm close to you again, i'm in agony. the closer i get to you, the worse it gets. the thought of not being with you mskes my stomach turn over - my mouth goes dry. i feel dizzy. i can't breathe. i'm haunted by the kiss you should never have given me. my heart is beating, hoping that kiss will not become a scar. you are in my very soul, tormenting me. what can i do? i will do anything you ask...
speaker1: if you are suffering as much as i am, tell me.
speaker2: ...i can't. we can't. it's just not possible.
speaker1: anything's possible. padme, please listen...
speaker2: you listen. we live in a real world. come back to it. you're studying to become a jedi knight. i'm a senator. if you follow your thoughts through to conclusion, they will take us to a place we cannot go... regardless of the way we feel about each other.
speaker1: then you do feel something! there's an extraordinary connection between us. you can't deny that.
speaker2: annie, it doesn't make any difference. jedi aren't allowed to marry. you swore an oath, remember? you'd be expelled from the order. i will not let you give up your responsibilities...
speaker1: i was destined to be a jedi. i don't think i could be anything else. but you are asking me to be rational. that is something i know i cannot do. i wish i could wish my feelings away... but i can't.
speaker2: i am not going to give into this. i'm not going to throw my life away. i have more important things to do than fall in love.
speaker1: it wouldn't have to be that way...
speaker2: then we'd be living a lie - one we couldn't keep even if we wanted to. mt sister saw it. so did my mother. i couldn't do that. could you, anakin? could you live like that?
speaker1: ...no, you're right. it would destroy us.

speaker1: welcome to tipoca city, master jedi. 
speaker1: everything is ready. the prime minister expects you.
speaker2: i'm expected?
speaker1: of course! he is anxious to see you. after all these years, we were beginning to think you weren't coming. now please, this way!

speaker1: may i present lama su, prime minister of kamino... and this is master jedi... 
speaker2: obi-wan kenobi.
speaker3: please...
speaker3: i trust you are going to enjoy your stay. we are most happy you have arrived at the best part of the season.
speaker2: you make me feel most welcome.
speaker3: and now to business. you will be delighted to hear we are on schedule. two hundred thousand units are ready, with another million well on the way.
speaker2: that is... good news.
speaker3: please tell your master sido-dyas that we have every confidence his order will be met on time and in full. he is well, i hope?
speaker2: i'm sorry master - ?
speaker3: jedi master sifo-dyas. he's still a leading member of the jedi council, is he not?
speaker2: oh, yes. sido-dyas.
speaker3: you must be anxious to inspect the units for yourself.
speaker2: that's why i'm here.

speaker1: i don't know... 
speaker2: sure you do... you just don't want to tell me.
speaker1: are you going to use one of your jedi mind tricks on me?
speaker2: they only work on the weak-minded.
speaker1: all right... his name was palo. i was twelve. we were both in the legislative youth program. he was a few years older then i... very cute... dark curly hair... dreamy eyes.
speaker2: all right, i get the picture...
speaker1: i went on to become a queen. he went on to become an artist.
speaker2: maybe he was the smart one.
speaker3: you really don't like politicians, do you?
speaker2: i like two or three, but i'm not really sure about one of them. i don't think the system works.
speaker3: how would you have it work?
speaker2: we need a system where the politicians sit down and discuss the problems, agree what's in the best interests of all the people, and then do it.
speaker3: that is exactly what we do. the trouble is that people don't wlways agree. in fact, they hardly ever do.
speaker2: then they should be made to.
speaker3: by whom? who's going to make them?
speaker2: i don't know. someone.
speaker3: you?
speaker2: of course not me.
speaker3: but someone.
speaker2: someone wise.
speaker3: that sounds an awful lot like a dictatorship to me.
speaker2: well, if it works...
speaker1: you're making fun of me.
speaker2: on no, i'd be much too frightened to tease a senator.
speaker1: you're so bad!

speaker1: we modified their genetic structure to make them less independent than the original host. as a result they are totally obedient, taking any order without question. 
speaker2: who was the original host?
speaker1: a bounty hunter called jango fett. we felt a jedi would be the perfect choice, but sido-dyas hand- picked jango fett himself.
speaker3: where is this bounty hunter now?
speaker1: oh, we keep him here. after a few hundred thousand clones, the genetic pattern starts to fade, so we take a fresh supply. he lives here, but he's free to come and go as he pleases.

speaker1: apart from his pay, which is considerable, fett demanded only one thing - an unaltered clone for himself. curious isn't it? 
speaker2: unaltered?
speaker1: pure genetic replication. no tampering with the structure to make it more docile... and no growth acceleration...
speaker2: i would like to meet this jango fett.
speaker3: i would be most happy to arrange it, for you.

speaker1: you mentioned growth acceleration... 
speaker2: oh yes, it's essential. otherwise, a mature clone would take a lifetime to grow. now, we can do it in half the time. those items you saw on the parade ground were started ten years ago, when sido-dyas first placed the order, and they're already mature...
speaker1: and these?
speaker2: about five years ago.

speaker1: they're immensely superior to droids, capable of independent thought and action. 
speaker2: very impressive.
speaker1: i'd hoped you would be pleased.
speaker2: tell me, prime minister, when my master sido-dyas first contacted you, did he say the order was for... himself... or?
speaker1: himself? of course not. this army is for the republic?
speaker2: the repubic?
speaker1: we are also very much agasint this count dooku and his seccessionist movement. we are proud to be of help to the republic.
speaker3: i have arranged for you to meet jango fett in the morning. sleep well.
speaker2: arfour, arfour...

speaker1: ...i've never heard of a jedi called sido-dyas, have you, master? 
speaker2: no. whoever placed that order was not a jedi, i can assure you.
speaker1: i have a strong feeling that this bounty hunter is the assassin we're looking for.
speaker3: who he is working for... discover that, you must.
speaker1: i will, master, and i will also find out more about this clone army... may the force...
speaker4: a clone army! ordered by someone in the senate perhaps... someone's out to start a war.
speaker3: inform the chancellor of this, we must.
speaker4: who do you think this impostor sido-dyas, could be?

speaker1: don't go. 
speaker2: i don't want to disturb you.
speaker1: your presence is soothing.
speaker3: you had a nightmare again last night.
speaker1: jedi don't have nightmares.
speaker3: i heard you.
speaker1: i saw my mother. i saw her as clearly as i see you now. she's suffering, padme. she is in pain...they're killing her! i know i'm disobeying my mandate to protect you, senator. i know i will be punished and possibly thrown out of the jedi order, but i must go. i have to help her! i'm sorry, padme. i don't have a choice.
speaker3: annie, i told you i wouldn't let you give up your future for me. i'll go with you. that way you can continue to protect me, and you won't be disobeying your mandate.
speaker1: what about master obi-wan?
speaker3: i guess we won't tell him, will we?

speaker1: boba, is your father here? 
speaker1: may we see him?
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: dad! taun we's here! 
speaker2: welcome back, jango. was your trip productive?
speaker3: fairly.
speaker2: this is jedi master, obi-wan kenobi. he's come to check on our progress.
speaker3: that right?
speaker4: your clones are very impressive.
speaker3: i'm just a simple man, trying to make my way in the universe, master jedi.
speaker4: aren't we all?
speaker4: ever made your way as far into the interior as coruscant?
speaker5: once or twice.
speaker4: recently?
speaker5: possibly...
speaker4: then you must know master sido- dyas?
speaker5: boba, close the door.
speaker5: master who?
speaker4: sido-dyas. isnâ’t he the jedi who hired you for this job?
speaker5: never heard of him. i was recuited by a man called darth tyranus on one of the moons of bogden.
speaker4: no? i thought...
speaker2: sido-dyas told us to expect him. and he showed up just when your jedi master said he would. we have kept the jediâ’s involvement a secret until your arrival, just as your master requested.
speaker4: curious...
speaker5: do you like your army?
speaker4: it seems to me it's your army - being that they are all clones of you.
speaker5: they'll do their job well, i'll guarantee that.
speaker4: i look forward to seeing them in action. thank you for your time, jango.
speaker5: always a pleasure to meet a jedi.
speaker6: what is it, dad?

speaker1: wait, please. 
speaker2: no, not that one - that one!
speaker1: excuse me, watto.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i said excuse me.
speaker2: shut down.
speaker2: what? i don't know you... what can i do for you? you look like a jedi. whatever it is... i didn't do it.
speaker1: let me help you with that.
speaker1: i'm looking for shmi skywalker.
speaker2: annie?? little annie?? naaaah!!
speaker2: you are annie! it is you! you little womp rat.
speaker2: you sure sprouted weehoo! a jedi! waddya know? hey, maybe you couldda help wit some daedbeats who owe...
speaker1: my mother...
speaker2: oh, yeah. shmi... she's not mine no more. i sold her.
speaker1: sold her...
speaker2: years ago. sorry, anne, but you know, business is business. sold her to a moisture farmer named lars. least i think it was lars. believe it or not, i heard he freed her and married her. can ya beat that?
speaker1: do you know where they are?
speaker2: long way from here... someplace over on the other side of mos eisley, i think...
speaker1: i'd like to know.
speaker2: yeah... sure... absolutely. let's go look in my records.

speaker1: tell your council the first battalions are ready. and remind them that if they need more troops, we will need time to grow them. 
speaker2: i won't forget.

speaker1: good evening. may i help you? 
speaker2: threepio?
speaker1: oh, my... oh, my! master anakin! my goodness, i can hardly believe it! and this must be miss padme.
speaker3: hello, threepio.
speaker2: i've come to see my mother.
speaker1: oh, dear! i'm so terribly sorry, master annie.
speaker3: threepio, what's happened?
speaker1: i think we'd better go inside.

speaker1: master lars - master owen! somebody to see you! 
speaker2: i'm anakin skywalker. i'm here looking for my mother.
speaker3: owen lars... i guess i'm your step-brother. this is my girlfriend, beru.
speaker4: hello.
speaker5: i'm padme.
speaker3: i had a feeling you might show up some day.
speaker2: is my mother here?
speaker6: no, she's not.
speaker6: cliegg lars. shmi is my wife... come on inside. we have a lot to talk about.

speaker1: your mother had gone out early, like she always did, to pick mushrooms that grow on the vaporatos. from the tracks, she was about halfway when they took her. those tuskens walk like men, but they're vicious, mindless monsters. thirty of us went out after her. four of us came back. three more are still out there looking. i'd be with them, only... i just couldn't ride any more... until i heal. 
speaker1: this isn't the way i wanted to meet you, son. this isn't how your mother and i planned it. i don't want to give up on her, but she's been gone a month. there's little hope she's lasted this long.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker3: to find my mother.
speaker4: no, annie!
speaker1: she's daed, son. accept it.
speaker3: i can feel her pain, and i will find her. i know she's alive.

speaker1: you are going to have to stay here. these are good people, padme. you'll be safe. 
speaker2: take my speeder bike.
speaker3: anakin...
speaker1: i trust you'll watch over her, owen.
speaker2: don't worry.
speaker1: i won't be long.

speaker1: nearly there, son. 
speaker2: dad, look!!
speaker1: hang on!

speaker1: dad! watch out! 
speaker2: stay calm, son. we'll be fine. that jedi won't be able to follow us through this. but obi-wan ship dives into the asteroid belt after them.
speaker1: got him! yeahhhhh!
speaker2: we won't see him again.

speaker1: please don't leave us, miss padme. these people need your help. 
speaker2: i'm not leaving, threepio. i just can't sleep.
speaker1: that's something i cannot relate to. as a protocol droid, i'm either active or inactive.
speaker2: i guess you're lucky.
speaker1: do you really think so..? i suppose i shouldn't expect...
speaker2: you're not happy here?
speaker1: oh, i'm not unhappy... and my masters here ar so kind i wouldn't wish to trouuble them, it's just... being like this...
speaker2: being like what?
speaker1: naked. if you pardon the expression. you see, when master annie made me, he never quite found the time to give me any outer covering. it's so humiliating. how would you like it if you had to go around with all your circuits showing?
speaker2: i guess i wouldn't like it at all.
speaker1: of course you wouldn't. nobody would. it's simply not protocol.
speaker2: maybe we can do something about it.
speaker1: i don't think so. only master annie...
speaker2: why not? they seem to have a box of old coverings here.
speaker1: oh? how observant of you, miss padme. of course, i'm just not mechanically minded... if you see what i mean.
speaker2: let's see, if we put this...
speaker1: ooooh! that's tickles.
speaker2: you'll have to be quiet, threepio.

speaker1: mom... mom... mom... 
speaker2: annie...? is it you?
speaker1: iâ’m here, mom. youâ’re safe. hang on. iâ’m going to get you out of here...
speaker2: iâ’m so glad... to see you, annie... now... i am complete...
speaker1: just stay with me, mom. iâ’m going to make you well again.
speaker2: you look so handsome. my son... my grown-up son. iâ’m so proud of you, annie... so proud... i missed you so much... i love...

speaker1: ...starships from the trade federation and the commerce guilds are taking deliveries of battle droids from the foundries on geonosis. 
speaker2: that's outrageous! the treaty forbids the trade federation from building up an army. what are they doing?!
speaker1: the droid foundry seems to be working at full capacity. i am going to go down and investigate. i will bring jango fett back home for interrogation.
speaker3: those geonosian foundries are part of the techno union. we will call in their representatives and ask them a few very pointed questions.
speaker1: one more thing. jango mentioned he was recruited by someone named darth tyranus. any idea who that might be?
speaker4: with the forename darth, a sith he must be.
speaker5: our missing apprentice. they are playing their hand at last.
speaker1: do you believe he could be the mysterious sido-dyas, who made the deal for the clone army?
speaker4: perhaps too many pieces are missing from this puzzle, there are.
speaker5: be careful, obi-wan. this investigation is becoming less than routine. do you need help?
speaker1: let me see if i can figure out what's going on first.
speaker2: the commerce guilds are preparing for war... there can be no doubt of that.
speaker3: count dooku must have made a treaty with them.
speaker5: we must stop them soon before they're fully ready.
speaker6: the debate is over, we need that clone army now!
speaker2: unfortunately, the debate is not over. the senate will never be able to approve the use of that army before the separatists attack.
speaker7: this is a crisis! if the senate votes the chancellor emergency powers, he could approve the use of the army in a minute.
speaker3: please, please, i don't wish to have emergency powers. that's too extreme a solution. it's akin to a dictatorship. we must rely on the jedi. master yoda, how many are available to go to geonosis?
speaker4: two hundred,... less or more.
speaker2: with all due respect for the jedi order, two hundred will be no match for hundreds of thousands of battle droids.
speaker5: patience. we should wait for obi- wan to report back. we don't know that count dooku has made a treaty with the corporate alliance, it's speculation.
speaker6: but we must prepare for the worst. i'm going to propose a motion granting emergency powers to the chancellor at the next session. we must not wait!
speaker3: out of the question, senator! you and i are too closely aligned. the issue will become partisan and debates will begin. the proposal must come from a neutral source.
speaker7: if only senator amidala were here.
speaker8: supreme chancellor... my august colleagues, i would be proud to propose the motion in question. this is a grave situation, and i'm sure senator amidala, and the queen of naboo would agree.
speaker6: thank you, representative binks.
speaker3: if called upon, i will serve. but it will be the saddest day of my life.

speaker1: there! 
speaker2: um. how do i look?
speaker3: great! you look perfect.
speaker2: perfect? oh, miss padme, i'm so happy! oh, pardon me.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker2: thank you! thank you! thank you!
speaker3: well, padme, i think he should be yours from now on... i know that is what my mom would want.
speaker2: oh, my!
speaker5: come topside, everybody! he's back! he's back!

speaker1: ...alliance have pledged their armies to count dooku and are forming an... wait!... ah... attack... i don't... make it... aaaggghhh! 
speaker2: i'm going after him!
speaker3: i thought the first thing he said was to retransmit his message to coruscant.
speaker2: yeah, you're right, you're right.

speaker1: we will deal with count dooku. the most important thing for you, anakin, is to stay where you are. protect the senator at all costs. 
speaker2: understood, master.
speaker3: they'll never get there in time to save him. they have to come half way across the galaxy. look, geonosis is less than a parsec away.
speaker2: if he's still alive.
speaker3: annie, are you just going to sit here and let him die?? he's your friend... your mentor...
speaker2: ...he's like my father, but you heard master windu. he gave me strict orders to stay here.
speaker3: he gave you strict orders to protect me...
speaker3: ...and i'm going to save obi-wan. so if you plan to protect me, you will have to come along.

speaker1: the longer we wait, the stronger dooku's armies become. we cannot wait for the senate to make up its mind about granting the chancellor emergency powers, in order to be able to use that clone army... we have the authority to go now. we must go now. 
speaker2: agreed, master windu. two hundred jedi send. enough, let's hope they are.

speaker1: order! order!! 
speaker2: in the regrettable absence of senator amidala, the chair recognises senior representative of naboo, jar jar binks.
speaker3: senators, dellow felagates...
speaker1: order! the senate will accord the representative the courtesy of a hearing!
speaker3: in response to the direct threat to the republic from the confederacy of independent systems, i propose that the senate gives immediate emergency powers to the supreme chancellor.
speaker3: who can deny these are exceptional times? exceptional times demand exceptional measures! exceptional measures demand exceptional men!
speaker4: we won't support a dictator.
speaker3: that is the sentiment every one of us agrees with! and when the shadow of war has dispersed and the bright day of liberty has dawned once again, the power we now give to the supreme chancellor will be gladly, and swiftly returned. out ancient liberties will be restored to us, burnished even more brightly than before!
speaker2: it is with great reluctance that i have agreed to this calling. i love democracy... i love the republic. the fact that this crisis is demanding i be given absolute power to tule over you is evident. but i am mild by nature and have no desire to destroy the democratic process. the power you give me i will lay down when this crisis has abated, i promise you. and all i ask in return is when my current term of office is over, you allow me to reture and live out my life in peace.
speaker1: we shall proceed to the vote. all those in favor of granting emergency powers to the supreme chancellor, signal ate at this time... those opposed?

speaker1: hey, where are you going? 
speaker2: to find obi-wan.
speaker1: no! you're not!
speaker2: let go of me!
speaker1: i'm not letting you go out there.
speaker3: what?!?
speaker1: it's my job to protect you. i said it's too dangerous. you're not going, and that's final!
speaker3: don't you give me orders, annie! i'm a senator of the galactic republic. you have no authority to contain me, restrain me, or direct me! you remember your place, young man. now you can come along and protect me or stay here. it's up to you.
speaker4: yes, it is, artoo. most confusing. one moment they're generating a pleasant mutual attraction and the next, waves of violent hostility. even though i'm programmed to understand them, i doubt if i ever shall.

speaker1: wait! 
speaker2: senator amidala, i've heard so much about you.
speaker3: count dooku, i assume.
speaker2: i'm delighted to meet you at last. we have a great deal to discuss, senator. i hope you can keep your young jedi under control.
speaker3: don't worry he's housebroken.

speaker1: you are holding a jedi knight, obi- wan kenobi. i am formally requesting you turn him over to me, now. 
speaker2: he has been convicted of espionage, senator, and will be executed. in just a few hours, i believe.
speaker1: he is an officer of the republic.
speaker2: we don't recognise the republic here, senator. but if naboo were to join our alliance, i could easily hear your plea for clemency.
speaker1: and if i don't join your rebellion, i assume this jedi with me will also die?
speaker2: i don't wish to make you to join our cause against your will, senator, but you are a rational, honest representative of your people and i assume you want to do what's in their best interest. aren't you fed up with the corruption, the bureaucrats, the hypocrisy of it all?.. aren't you? be honest, senator.
speaker1: the ideals are still alive, count, even if the institution is failing.
speaker2: you believe in the same ideals we believe in! the same ideals we are striving to make prominent.
speaker1: if what you say is true, you should stay in the republic and help chancellor palpatine put things right.
speaker2: the chancellor means well, m'lady but he is incompetent. he has promised to cut the bureaucracy, but the bureaucrats are stronger than ever, no? senator, the republic cannot be fixed. it is time to start over. the democratic process in the republic is a sham, a shell game played on the voters. it will not be long before the cult of greed, called the republic, will lose even the pretext of democracy and freedom.
speaker1: i cannot believe that. i will not forsake all i have honoured and worked for and betray the republic. i know of your treaties with the trade federation, the commerce guilds, and the others, count. what is happening here is not government that has been bought out by business... it's business becoming government!
speaker2: are you willing to betray your jedi friends? without your co-operation i can do nothing to stop their execution.
speaker1: what is to happen to me? am i to be executed also?
speaker2: i wouldn't think of such an offence. but, there are individuals who have a strong interest in your demise, m'lady. it has nothing to do with politics, i'm afraid. it's purely personal, and they have already paid great sums to have you assassinated. i'm sure they will push hard to have you included in the executions. i'm sorry but if you are not going to co-operate, i must turn you over to the geonosians for justice. i've done all i can for you.
speaker3: i'll take that weapon.
speaker2: you may cause a lot of bloodshed, my young jedi, but you will not escape.
speaker1: anakin...

speaker1: you have been charged and found guilty of espionage. 
speaker2: do you have anything to say before your sentence is carried out?
speaker3: you are committing an act of war, archduke. i hope you are prepared for the consequences.
speaker2: we build weapons, senator... that is our business! of course we're prepared!
speaker4: get on with it. carry out the sentence. i want to see her suffer.
speaker2: your other jedi friend is waiting for you, senator. take them to the arena!

speaker1: don't be afraid. 
speaker2: i'm not afraid to die. i've been dying a little bit each day since you came back into my life.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: you love me?! i thought we decided not to fall in love. that we would be forced to live a lie.
speaker2: i think our lives are about to be destroyed anyway. my love for you is a puzzle, annie, for which i have no answers. i can't control it... and now i don't care. i truly, deeply love you, and before we die i want you to know.
speaker1: i have no desire to be cured of this love either. long or short, i vow to spend the rest of my life with you. they kiss again.

speaker1: i was beginning to wonder if you had gotten my message. 
speaker2: i retransmitted it as you requested, master. then we decided to come and rescue you.
speaker1: it looks like you're going a good job so far.
speaker3: the felons before you have been convicted of espionage against the sovereign system of geonosis. their sentence of death is to be carried out in this public arena henceforth.
speaker4: let the executions begin!
speaker2: i have a bad feeling about this.
speaker1: take the one the left. i'll take the one on the right.
speaker2: what about padme?
speaker1: it looks like she's already on top of things.
speaker5: foul!! she can't do that... shoot her or something!
speaker2: you okay?
speaker6: sure! well, sort of.
speaker2: jump!!!
speaker5: this isn't how it's supposed to be! jango, finish her off.
speaker7: patiece, viceroy... she will die. maybe this is the way it's supposed to end.

speaker1: yes, it has been rather a long time. do you suppose something's happened to them? 
speaker1: danger? oh no, i shouldn't think so. it looks a very dull planet to me. they should be back shortly. just stop worrying, artoo.

speaker1: master windu, how pleasant of you to join us. you're just in time for the moment of truth. i would think these two new boys of yours could use a little more training. 
speaker2: sorry to disappoint you, dooku. this party's over.
speaker1: brave, but stupid, my old jedi friend. you're impossibly outnumbered.
speaker2: i don't think so. one jedi has to be worth a hundred geonosians.
speaker1: it wasn't the geonosians i was thinking about. how well do you think one jedi will hold up against a thousand battle droids? count dooku signals. thousands of droids start to pour into all parts of the arena.
speaker3: i don't hear anything. you're scaring me! stop imagining things!

speaker1: someone's got to - shut down - these droids. 
speaker2: don't worry! it's being - taken care of!

speaker1: we've done it! now we have a chance! 
speaker2: the system's off but they're still active. that's a new feature. they are independent of the control system.

speaker1: master windu! 
speaker1: you have fought gallantly. worthy of recognition in the history archives of the jedi order. now it is finished. surrender - and your lives will be spared.
speaker2: we will not be hostages for you to barter with dooku.
speaker1: then, i'm sorry, old friend. you will have to be destroyed.
speaker3: look!
speaker4: come on - hurry! hurry!

speaker1: hold on! look over there... 
speaker2: it's dooku, go after him!
speaker2: padme!!!
speaker2: put the ship down! down!
speaker1: no! forget her. we have to go after dooku.
speaker2: no we're not!! land this ship!
speaker1: don't let your personal feelings get in the way. we've got a job to do.
speaker2: i don't care!.. go back.
speaker1: anakin! she's all right! look.
speaker1: follow that speeder!

speaker1: your excellency! 
speaker2: that won't be necessary, captain. stand down. and leave them to me.
speaker3: we move in together - you slowly on the...
speaker4: i'm taking him now!
speaker3: anakin, no!
speaker4: you'll pay for all the jedi you've killed today, dooku.
speaker2: kenobi, isn't it? as you can see, my jedi powers are far beyond yours. now, back down.
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker2: ah, but if i must.
speaker2: i have spent the last ten years learning to use the power of the dark side. it gives me infinitely greater power.
speaker3: you will have to prove it.
speaker2: grand master kenobi, you disappoint me. yoda holds you in such high esteem.
speaker2: surely you can do better...? no, i'm surprised. has jedi swordsmanship degenerated so quickly, or are you trying to make fun of me? which is it?
speaker2: come, come, master kenobi. put me out of my misery.
speaker2: that's brave of you, boy - but foolish. i would have thought you'd have learnt your lesson.
speaker4: i'm a slow learner.
speaker2: you have unusual powers, young padawan. but not enought to save you this time.
speaker4: don't bet on it!
speaker3: anakin!
speaker2: master yoda. at last we shall know who is the most powerful.
speaker5: count dooku. no interest in contests, do i have.
speaker5: the end for you, count, this is.
speaker2: ...not yet...
speaker6: anakin!
speaker7: resistance is at an end, general. what are your orders ?

speaker1: the force is with us, my master. 
speaker2: welcome home, lord tyranus. you have done well.
speaker1: i bring you good news, my lord.
speaker2: excellent. everything is going as planned.

speaker1: where is your apprentice? 
speaker2: on his way back to naboo. he is escorting senator amidala home.
speaker2: i must admit without the clones, it would not have been a victory.
speaker3: victory? victory, you say?
speaker3: not victory, a defeat, it was... master obi-wan. begun, the clone war has!

