speaker1: 500 south buena vista st. 
speaker2: tom rickman first draft

speaker1: ink's wet, the presses are rolling, the papers are stacking -- rise and shine, make a dime, no news without the newsies -- etc. 
speaker2: wake up, crutchy -- the world is waitin'.

speaker1: how'd you sleep, jack? 
speaker2: on me back, mush.

speaker1: you hear that, you hear what he said? i ast how'd he sleep -- 
speaker2: jack, this look like i'm fakin' it?
speaker3: who says you're fakin' it?
speaker2: the streets are fulla fakes these days -- it's hurtin' the rep of genuine articles like myself. i gotta find me a new sellin' spot, where they ain't used to seein' me. jack smiles; mush taps crutchy on the arm... sings.

speaker1: what's your leg say, crutch? 
speaker2: no rain -- partly cloudy, clearin' towards evenin'. who ya sellin' wit, jack?
speaker1: ain't decided yet.

speaker1: les, hurry up, willya? why do i gotta be saddled with you? 
speaker2: why do i gotta be saddled with you?
speaker1: come on -- they'll run out of papers!

speaker1: 'mornin', officer. 
speaker2: i'm keepin' my eye on you, blink.
speaker1: and i'll keep my eye on you, too, sir.
speaker2: get moving!

speaker1: i'm wiped out -- my mother'll murder me -- if i had one. 
speaker2: jack -- whattaya know, whattaya say. got a hot tip on a nag in the fourth at sheepshead -- sure t'ing!
speaker3: your last sure t'ing's still runnin', racetrack.
speaker4: ya hear that? race says sure t'ing and jack says -- ya hear what he said, ya hear it, he said --
speaker5: we heard it!

speaker1: stupid question. 
speaker2: stupid question.
speaker3: that an echo? or is the crip followin' ya again?
speaker2: yeah? how'd you like it if a crip cracked your head?
speaker1: better choke it, blink -- 'fore you need another patch.
speaker3: hey, who ya sellin' wit, jack?
speaker2: not wit you!
speaker1: nothing personal, blink, but...

speaker1: how 'bout savin' me another roll -- okay, sister? 
speaker2: hey! save some for the rest of us!

speaker1: too rotten to be the sewer. it must be -- 
speaker2: -- the delancey brothers!
speaker3: inna back, ya ugly little shrimp!
speaker4: five to one, i say cowboy skunks 'em -- who's bettin', who's bettin' --
speaker5: you shouldn't be callin' people ugly little shrimps. oscar. unless you're referrin; to the family resemblance in your brother here.
speaker5: that's right. it's an insult. and so's this --

speaker1: watch it, willya? what do you think you're doing! 
speaker2: runnin'.

speaker1: comin' down de chute! 
speaker2: we ain't finished with you yet, kelly.
speaker3: ride 'em, cowboy!

speaker1: ya miss me, weasel? 
speaker2: you know my name -- it's weisel.
speaker1: don't rush me -- i'm perusin' the mercandice... mr. weasel.
speaker1: the usual.
speaker2: hundred for the wiseguy -- next!

speaker1: ya got ya papes -- move outta here. 
speaker2: i paid for twenty -- you only gave me nineteen!

speaker1: you callin' me a liar, kid...? 
speaker2: i want that other paper.
speaker3: nineteen, weasel. an honest mistake -- on account of oscar can't count to twenty with his shoes on.
speaker1: next!
speaker3: hold it. race -- spot me two-bits.
speaker3: another fifty for my friend here.
speaker2: i don't want another fifty -- !
speaker3: sure you do. every newsie wants more papes. david, puzzled, grabs the papers and he and les run after jack --

speaker1: cowboy! they call him cowboy! 
speaker2: that and a lotta other things -- including jack kelly, which is what my mudder called me. what do they call you, kid?
speaker1: les. this is david, he's my brother. he's older.
speaker2: no kiddin'. how old are you, les?
speaker1: near ten.
speaker2: no good. anybody asks, you're seven. younger sells more papes, les -- and if we're gonna be partners --
speaker3: hold it! who said anything about partners -- ?
speaker2: you owe me two bits, right? okay, so i consider it an investment. we sell together, split 70-30, plus you get the benefit of observin' me -- no charge.
speaker4: you're gettin' the chance of a lifetime here -- you learn from jack, you learn from the best.
speaker3: if he's the best, then why does he need us?

speaker1: i don't need you, pal. but i ain't got a cute little brother to front for me. and les here... ... with this kid's puss and my god-given talent, we can easy move a thousand papers a week. whattaya say? deal? 
speaker2: gotta split fifty-fifty.
speaker1: sixty-forty. or i forget the whole t'ing.
speaker1: the name of the game is volume, dave.
speaker2: bad headline...?
speaker1: first t'ing you gotta learn -- headlines don't sell papes, newsies sell papes. we're what holds this town together -- without newsies, nobody knows nuttin'!

speaker1: the news is slow, chief, the trolley strike's all we got -- 
speaker2: it's all mr. william randolph hearst has, too -- see how he covers the strike!
speaker2: hearst is killing us in the circulation war -- and you give me headlines that would put a whirling dervish to sleep!
speaker3: we'll get a new headline writer, mr. pulitzer.
speaker2: steal hearst's man -- offer him double what hearst pays.
speaker1: that's how he stole him from us. chief, you spend as much as you make fighting hearst. that's why the paper's losing money --
speaker2: i created the world to be the best and i'll spend whatever it takes to -- what is that deafening noise?
speaker1: just the newsies, chief, i'll --

speaker1: never mind -- where was i? 
speaker2: creating the world, chief.
speaker1: this paper's losing money because there's too much fat, inefficiency -- not because i'm fighting to make us number one! well, we're going to cut costs, maximize profits -- and still beat the socks off hearst -- i want to know how by tonight.

speaker1: some newsies got corners, see -- same spot, same customers. me, i like to keep moving, enjoy the life of the big city. i spot an opportunity, i sell a pape. that's the advantage of being an independent businessman, instead of workin' for wages. 
speaker2: paper, mister?
speaker3: extry -- 'runaway carriage crushes cop!'

speaker1: oh, honey... look at that sweet little lamb... david, watching with jack, can't believe this. les comes running back waving a coin -- 
speaker2: he gimme a dime! he said i should go far away and keep the change!
speaker3: you're a natural, kid. you remind me of me -- and i can't say greater than that.

speaker1: extra, 'trolley strike drags on!' 
speaker2: nextry, nextry -- 'ellis island in flames -- big con-fla-gration!'
speaker1: what -- ? where's that story -- ?
speaker2: page nine -- thank you, sir.
speaker1: 'trash fire near immigration building frightens seagulls -- ?'
speaker2: 'terrified flight from flaming inferno!' thank you, much obliged --

speaker1: buy me last pape, mista...? 
speaker2: our father taught us not to lie.
speaker3: mine taught me not to starve.
speaker2: you just make things up -- like those headlines.
speaker3: i don't do nothin' the guys who write this stuff don't do. it ain't lyin' -- it's just improvin' the truth a little.
speaker1: the guy gave me a quarter! quick, gimme some more last papers!
speaker2: hold it -- i smell beer!
speaker1: the guy bet me i wouldn't drink some -- that's how i made the quarter!
speaker3: hey, no drinkin' on the job -- it's bad for business. what if somebody called a cop or somethin'?

speaker1: there he is, officer -- do your duty! 
speaker2: beat it -- the bulls!
speaker3: just for one little sip of beer -- ?

speaker1: you, sullivan! stop, i say! you hear me, sullivan? 
speaker2: who's sullivan -- ?
speaker3: mistaken identity -- all micks look alike to these birds!
speaker4: one sip! i didn't even swallow it!

speaker1: you young miscreant! wait'll i get you back to the refuge! 
speaker2: the refuge -- ?

speaker1: i'm not crossing that! anyway, i don't think they're chasing us -- 
speaker2: no? what're they doin' then?
speaker1: i think they're chasing you!

speaker1: i want some answers -- why was he chasing you? what's the refuge? 
speaker2: the refuge is this jail for kids.
speaker3: you were in jail...? why?
speaker2: i was starvin'. i stole some food.
speaker1: right, food. he called you 'sullivan' --
speaker2: yeah, food. my name's kelly, jack kelly, like i told you. think i'm lyin'?
speaker1: you have a way of 'improving the truth.' why was he chasing you?
speaker2: because i escaped.
speaker3: oh, boy. how?
speaker2: this big shot gimme a ride out in his carriage.
speaker1: bet it was the mayor, right?
speaker2: nah. teddy roosevelt. ever heard of him?

speaker1: what is the meaning of this? no one is allowed backstage -- you will leave at once! out, out, out, out -- she descends the stairs grandly, shooing them away like pigeons. jack turns to her and grins. 
speaker2: you wouldn't kick me out without a kiss goodbye, wouldya, medda?
speaker1: kelly, where've you been, kid? i miss you up in the balcony -- you know i sing all my songs to you.
speaker2: this is david and les. and this is the greatest star of the vaudeville stage today, miss medda larkson, the swedish meadowlark.
speaker1: welcome!
speaker2: medda also owns the joint.
speaker1: don't ever own a theater, kid.
speaker3: i won't. i promise.
speaker1: what have we here -- ? aren't you the cutest little fella that ever was -- yes, you are --

speaker1: buy my last pape, lady? 
speaker2: this kid is good. speaking as one professional to another, i'd say you got a future.
speaker3: okay if we hang here awhile, medda? 'til a little problem outside goes away?
speaker2: as long as you like -- now the lark must warble. hey, you -- -- give my guests whatever they want.

speaker1: it's late, my folks'll be worried ... what about yours? 
speaker2: they're out west lookin' for a place for us to live -- -- like this.
speaker2: that's sante fe -- out in new mexico? soon's pop finds us the right ranch, they're sendin' for me.

speaker1: why don't we divvy up at my place...? you can meet my folks... 
speaker2: scabs! soak the scabs! etc.
speaker1: jack -- let's get outta here -- !
speaker3: maybe tomorrow we get a decent headline.

speaker1: my god...! what happened? 
speaker2: he's just sleeping, momma --
speaker3: we've been waiting dinner -- where've you been?
speaker3: you made all this selling papers...?

speaker1: half of it's jack's -- he's our selling partner. and our friend. this is my parents. 
speaker1: that's sarah. my sister.
speaker2: esther -- maybe david's partner would like to stay for dinner.
speaker3: mayer...!

speaker1: what i saw today, i gotta say your boys are born newsies, mr. jacobs. with my experience and their hard work -- just a little more, thanks -- -- i figure we can peddle a thousand a week and not break a sweat. 
speaker2: that many...?
speaker1: more when the headline's good.
speaker3: what makes a headline good?

speaker1: catchy words -- like, uh, 'corpse' or 'maniac,' or, let's see, 'love nest' or 'nude' -- 
speaker1: 'scuse the language there, uh, maybe i'm talkin' too much...
speaker2: you talk fine, jack -- sarah, get that cake your mother's been hiding in the cabinet!
speaker3: that's for your birthday tomorrow!
speaker2: i've had enough birthdays! this is a celebration!
speaker4: it's only the beginning -- the longer i work, the more i'll make --
speaker2: you work only until i go back to the factory! then you go back to school, like you promised.
speaker2: it will heal... they'll give me back my job... i'll make them...

speaker1: how'd your pop get hurt? 
speaker2: the factory. an accident. he's no good to them anymore so they just fired him. he's got no union to protect him.
speaker3: david? time to come in now.
speaker2: why don't you stay here tonight...?
speaker1: i got my own place... but thanks. your family's real nice, dave. like mine. david nods, climbs in the window.
speaker2: see you tomorrow. carryin' the banner.
speaker1: carryin' the banner.

speaker1: how'd it go at the track, race? 
speaker2: that hot tip i told you about? nobody told the horse.
speaker3: you missed your supper, boys.
speaker2: then we didn't miss much, did we?

speaker1: actual income, as well as projected income, against actual operating costs, as well as projected operating costs, produce a reduced marginality of profit which in turn -- 
speaker2: seitz! what in blazes is he talking about?
speaker3: says you need to make more money, chief.

speaker1: of course i need to make more money! but how do i make more money, you bloodless blot? 
speaker2: i have several proposals. the first is to increase the paper's price --
speaker1: then hearst undersells me and i'm in the poorhouse. brilliant.
speaker2: not the customer price -- the price to the distribution apparatus.
speaker3: you mean the newsies...? charge the newsies more for their papers?
speaker2: very well. my next proposal -- salary cuts, particularly those at the very top --
speaker1: wait. what do the newsies pay now -- fifty cents per hundred papers? if you raised it to sixty cents --
speaker2: a mere tenth of a cent per paper --
speaker1: -- then that, multiplied by forty thousand papers a day, seven days a week -- well, it would pay some of the bills around here.
speaker3: chief, if you do this, every newsie we got will head straight for hearst.

speaker1: not necessarily. as newspapermen, hearst and i would cut each other's throats to get the best of the other. but as businessmen -- and gentlemen -- we often agree on ways to keep down certain operating costs. if i know willie hearst, he's going to wish he thought of this himself. 
speaker2: what about the other papers -- ?
speaker1: if we do it, they'll all do it. it's only a tenth of a cent -- nobody gets hurt! it's good for the newsies -- an incentive, make 'em work harder, sell more papers! now get me hearst on that contraption.

speaker1: they jacked up the price! ten cents a hunnerd -- i can eat two days on ten cents! 
speaker2: this'll bust me -- i'm barely makin' a livin' now --
speaker3: i'll be back sleepin' on the streets --

speaker1: it don't make no sense! all the money pulitzer makes, why would he gouge us? 
speaker2: awright, pipe down! don't you see it's a gag? just weasel bein' a weasel. joke's over, wease. gimme a hunnerd.
speaker3: hunnerd'll cost ya sixty, cowboy.
speaker2: i ain't payin' no sixty --
speaker3: then move outta the way --
speaker2: you bet -- i move right over to the journal.
speaker4: it's the same at the journal -- we checked -- it's the same everywhere!
speaker2: why the jack-up, weasel?
speaker3: why not? it's a nice day. why don't you ast mr. pulitzer?
speaker3: if you ain't buyin' papes, clear out! world employees only on this sida the gates.
speaker2: it stinks here anyway -- let's go!

speaker1: they can't do that to us -- 
speaker2: they can do what they want -- it's their stinkin' paper --
speaker3: ain't we got no rights -- ?
speaker4: sure -- we got the right to take it in the t'roat!
speaker2: it's a rigged deck -- why waste time kiddin' ourselves? they set the price, we gotta pay it --
speaker5: we got no choice! so let's get our lousy papes while they still got some --
speaker6: nobody's goin' anywhere -- they ain't gonna get away with this!
speaker7: what can we do --
speaker8: stop crowding him! let him think!
speaker2: jack...? ya still thinkin'... ? jack looks at him, then the others: his jaw set.
speaker6: one thing for sure. if we don't sell papes, then nobody sells papes. nobody comes through those gates 'til they put the price back where it was.

speaker1: you mean like a strike...? 
speaker2: yeah, a strike -- good idea, dave.
speaker1: no, i didn't mean -- we can't strike, we're not a union --
speaker2: we go on strike, we're a union, right? keep it comin', dave --
speaker1: there's not enough of us -- maybe if we got every newsie in new york --
speaker2: yeah, we organize -- we get all the new york newsies to join us!
speaker1: it's no joke! you saw what happened to those trolley workers --
speaker2: another great idea! any newsie don't join with us, we soak 'im -- just like the trolley workers!
speaker1: nooo! stop and think, willya? you can't just rush everybody into this!
speaker2: dave's right again! we gotta think this through! old man pulitzer and hearst and all them other rich geezers, they run this city. do we really think a buncha streetrats like us would have a chance against people like them?

speaker1: the choice has gotta be yours -- are we gonna just take what they give us? or do we strike? 
speaker2: strike! the boys explode -- a beat begins to build --
speaker3: keep talkin', jack -- tell us what to do --
speaker4: uh... uh... pulitzer and hearst have to respect our rights --
speaker1: pulitzer and hearst have to respect the workin' boys of new york! keep it comin' -- what else.
speaker4: uh... they can't treat us like we don't exist...

speaker1: what's to stop someone else from sellin' our papes? 
speaker2: we talk to 'em.
speaker3: some of 'em don't hear so good.
speaker2: then we soak 'em.
speaker4: no!

speaker1: we gotta get word out to all the newsies in new york! i gotta have some... whattaya call 'em -- 
speaker2: ambassadors.
speaker1: right! you guys gotta be embastards and tell 'em we're on strike!
speaker3: i'll take harlem!
speaker4: i got mid-town! crutchy the bronx! mush i'll get da bowery!
speaker1: bumlet, specs, skittery take queens; pie eater and snotty, the east side -- snipeshooter, go with 'em; okay, who wants brooklyn? spot conlon's territory?
speaker1: whatsamatter? scared of brooklyn?

speaker1: we ain't scared of brooklyn. but spot conlon makes us a little nervous. 
speaker2: well, he don't make me nervous. you and me, boots, we take brooklyn. dave can keep us company. okay, dave?
speaker3: sure. right after you take our demands to pulitzer.
speaker2: me? to pulitzer?
speaker3: you're the leader.
speaker2: maybe the kid'll soften him up a little.
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker3: they're going in to present our demands to pulitzer.
speaker4: what demands?

speaker1: the newsies' demands. we're on strike. 
speaker2: i'm denton, new york sun. what's your name?
speaker1: david...
speaker2: david. as in david and goliath? you really think old man pulitzer's going to listen to your demands?
speaker1: he has to.
speaker3: so's your ol' lady! tell pulitzer he needs an appointment with me!

speaker1: -- so this snooty mug is sayin', 'you cawn't see mr. pulitzer, no one sees mr. pulitzer' -- real hoity-toity, you know the type -- 
speaker2: real hoity-toity --

speaker1: -- so i says, 'i ain't in the habit of transactin' business with no office boy -- tell him jack kelly is here to see him now.' 
speaker2: that's when they threw us out.
speaker3: doesn't it scare you going up against the most powerful man in new york?
speaker3: keep me informed -- i want to know everything that happens.
speaker4: are we really an important story...?
speaker3: what's important? a year ago i covered the war in cuba -- charging up san juan hill with colonel teddy roosevelt. a very important story. now it doesn't seem so important -- except teddy's our governor and probably on his way to the white house. is the newsies' strike important? it all depends on you.
speaker1: my name really gonna be in the papers?
speaker3: any objections?
speaker1: not as long as you get it right -- kelly, jack kelly. and, denton? no pictures.

speaker1: i've never been to brooklyn -- have you guys? 
speaker2: spent a month there one night.
speaker1: this spot conlon... is he really as bad as they say...?
speaker1: i say something funny? come on, tell me -- he bad or not? what's the joke? tell me, willya?

speaker1: if it ain't jack be nimble, jack be quick. 
speaker2: you're movin' up in the world, spot -- got a ocean view and everything.
speaker1: so i'm hearin' things from little birdies in harlem and queens and all over. they're chirpin' in my ear: 'jackie-boy's newsies are playin' like they're goin' on strike -- '
speaker3: we're not playing -- we are on strike -- it's -- spot's eyes click like switchblades in david's direction -- so do his henchmen's.
speaker1: what's this, jackie boy? some kind of walkin' mouth?

speaker1: it's a mouth with a brain -- and if you got half-a-one you'll listen. tell 'im, davey. david looks at jack wide-eyed: "me?" scared to death, he starts -- as spot's henchmen begin circling him like jackals. 
speaker2: uh... we started the strike but... we can't do it alone, so... we've been talkin' to newsies all over the city...
speaker3: so they told me. and what did they tell you?
speaker2: that... they're all waiting to see what spot conlon does. that you're the key... that spot conlon is the most respected and... famous... newsie in new york... and probably everywhere else...
speaker2: and... if spot conlon joins the strike, they'll join and we'll be unstoppable so you gotta join and ... well... you gotta...
speaker3: you're right. brains. but i got brains, too -- and more than half-a-one. how do i know you punks won't run the first time some goon comes atcha with a club? how do i know you're in it to win?

speaker1: 'cause i'm tellin' you. 
speaker2: not good enough, jackie-boy. you gotta show me.
speaker1: maybe you lost your guts, spotty- boy -- -- or maybe you traded 'em to some chicken for that beak of yours. maybe you gotta show me you ain't afraid to join the strike.
speaker2: nice try, pal. but that's just what i'm talkin' about. show me this strike ain't just some kids do-or-dare, then we'll talk.

speaker1: he was concerned about us bein' serious -- you imagine that? 
speaker2: without spot and the others, there ain't enough of us...
speaker3: maybe we're movin' too soon, maybe we ain't ready --
speaker4: definitely should put this off a coupla days, definitely --
speaker5: hey, jack -- you ready? i'm ready!
speaker1: at least somebody's got the right idea.
speaker5: who else is ready for stick-ball?
speaker1: who we kiddin' here. spot was right. just a game to these guys...
speaker6: hey, jack -- get a loada this!

speaker1: i don't think they're just going to go away, chief. 
speaker2: just give me the means, mr. pulitzer. i'll take care of them for you.
speaker3: give him whatever 'means' he requires, i want this nuisance over and done with. he looks back down at the square, where crutchy's crude portrait of him, lying crumpled on the pavement, stares back at him.

speaker1: cowboy! ya miss the joint? 
speaker2: whattayasay, tenpin. you got a new guy, crutchy --
speaker1: the gimp? i'll get him for ya.
speaker2: that's tenpin -- s'posed to get out last christmas but snyder keeps tackin' more time on his sentence --
speaker3: be quiet -- they'll hear you --!

speaker1: hey, whattaya hangin' around here for? that dave up there? hiya, dave! 
speaker2: go get your hat, crutch -- kiss snyder good-bye.
speaker1: yeah... hey, shoulda seen me in court today -- old judge movealong monahan hisself! took him two minutes to move me along to snyder for 'my own good.'
speaker2: later, crutchy -- get your stuff.
speaker1: listen, jack... truth is, i ain't walkin' so good. oscar and morris kinda worked me over a little...
speaker2: they hurt you...? don't worry, we'll carry you --
speaker1: i don't want nobody carryin' me -- never! jack looks up: crutchy's eyes flash with pride. then he smiles, softens.
speaker1: it ain't so bad here. get three squares, sorta, and there's some swell fellas... they still talk about how jack rode outta here on that coach!

speaker1: teddy roosevelt's. right? 
speaker2: you already heard the story.
speaker1: you mean it's true --?
speaker3: crutchy won't last in there... i seen stronger guys than him not make it.

speaker1: did you really escape in teddy roosevelt's coach? 
speaker2: not in it. on it.
speaker1: what was he doing at the refuge?
speaker2: runnin' for governor. showin' his concern, like all pols during elections.
speaker1: teddy's not like other politicians. he's the biggest hero in the country.
speaker2: anyway, he's there. i see his fancy coach waitin' for 'im, so i sneaks on top of it. teddy gets in and he's wavin' goodbye, and all the guys are wavin' goodbye, and snyder's wavin' -- 'good-byeeee, colonel roosevelt!' so just as we're goin' out the gate, i stands up and -- 'good-byeee, warden snyder!' it was in the papes and everything.
speaker1: he's governor now. i don't understand how he could see that place and not do anything --
speaker2: he only seen what snyder wanted him to -- good food, everything the city pays for that snyder usually steals.
speaker1: i'll bet if he just knew -- i mean, he's a hero --
speaker2: last year he was a hero. this year he's a politician.

speaker1: join us! join us! etc. 
speaker2: look out -- !

speaker1: why don't you stop this -- ? 
speaker2: strike's over, boys.
speaker3: so, ya showed me! now i'll show you what brooklyn can do --!

speaker1: jack leaps on a loose horse, pulls david up all and they lead an impromptu seize the day victory parade. 
speaker2: the police fade away; send out the call and spectators who have watched it all begin to all applaud. many throw seize the day coins, bills, or show other signs of support... bumlets

speaker1: lookit this -- just lookit this, willya -- ? 
speaker2: where's me pitch'a? where's me pitch'a? boots all them words -- are they all about us -- ?
speaker3: lookit jack -- he looks like a general or sumpin'! spot where's me name? where's it say me name?
speaker4: listen! listen up, everybody -- ! 'like a small but rising storm, the infant newsboys' union continues to gather force -- ' loud cheers.
speaker3: hey, ya write sweet, denton -- real sweet.
speaker4: 'their leader is a child of the new york streets with a red bandana and a golden tongue, jack kelly -- '
speaker5: where's it say that...?
speaker2: stop t'inkin' about yaself and let 'im read!

speaker1: you're kids. they think you'll get tired, or bored, or maybe just too hungry. and with my colleagues on the other dailies not allowed to cover you -- 
speaker1: -- they can just ignore you until you go away.
speaker2: we ain't goin' away. we'll never go away.
speaker3: that's what we gotta show 'em -- we gotta do somethin' they can't ignore, somethin' big --
speaker2: we'll do it up big, all right -- we'll show 'em we ain't tired, or bored, and the hungrier we get, the more we fight -- we'll have a rally -- every newsie in new york -- and we're gonna send a message: there's a lot of us and we ain't goin' away -- we'll keep fightin' until doomsday if it means gettin' what's ours!

speaker1: that's jack -- ! hey, he looks just like hisself! 
speaker2: you know this boy...?
speaker1: him? nah.
speaker2: you have a famous friend, this 'jack.'... do you know where he lives...?
speaker1: i never seen the guy, honest. this brain of mine, always makin' mistakes. got a mind of its own.

speaker1: darlings, i love you -- i wish you luck on your rally, i am behind you one hundred percent. but i'm not running a union hall here -- this is a theater, a temple of art. and well-known money pit. 
speaker2: we got money, medda. some, anyway.

speaker1: we'll take a collection at the door. we'll pay whatever you ask. 
speaker2: it's not the money. i depend on the papers. they write good things about me, the customers flock here like sheep. they give me the pan, i'm the one who gets sheared.
speaker1: you're afraid of them, too...
speaker3: medda's gotta look out for herself same as anybody. we'll find another place.
speaker1: how can they make a whole city afraid? we're the ones putting our necks on the line -- all we need is for somebody to have the guts to stand up and show them we're not alone!
speaker2: they have the power to destroy people...
speaker1: they can't destroy you if you fight them -- only if you let them own you!
speaker2: you are so young...
speaker2: got to be on monday night. i'm dark on monday nights.

speaker1: take it, medda. please...? thanks. 
speaker2: don't thank me. thank mr. wisenheimer guilt-maker of 1899 there.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: do you have a 'jack kelly' registered here? i wish to see him.
speaker1: 'jack kelly...?' any of you boys know a 'jack kelly'?
speaker3: unusual name for these parts. skittery i knew a jack somebody once.
speaker4: you mean jack kelly -- ?
speaker4: -- he was here but he put an egg in his shoe and beat it.
speaker2: i have reason to believe he's an escaped prisoner. possibly dangerous.
speaker1: oh, dear me... dangerous? my files are in the rear -- this way, please.

speaker1: did you sleep there? why didn't you wake us up? 
speaker2: didn't wanna disturb nobody... anyway, it's like the waldorf out here... great view, cool air -- she glances back in the apartment.
speaker1: go up on the roof.

speaker1: it's all getting so big. the family's very worried about the boys. and you, too. 
speaker2: your mom and pop are worried about me...?
speaker1: the whole family...
speaker1: david says you're moving away when the strike's over. to santa fe.
speaker2: you'd like it out there -- they got this big yellow desert and the air's real blue, see, from the sky, and the sun, it's bigger out there.
speaker1: it's the same sun as here.
speaker2: no. no, it ain't... not that i been there or nothin'.
speaker1: guess your parents wrote you about it. bet you can't wait to see them again.
speaker2: sure... big family reunion. soon's i get the dough for train fare.
speaker1: david said you spent all your money to rent the theater.

speaker1: sounds like you and dave don't do nothin' but talk about me. 
speaker2: we do not.
speaker1: not that i blame you -- me bein' such an interestin' guy and all --
speaker2: are you...?
speaker1: what'd i tell ya -- interestin', right?

speaker1: of course the city is very concerned that this, uh, event doesn't get out of hand, but... 
speaker2: we can't just charge in and break it up, mr. pulitzer -- we got no legal cause.

speaker1: would the fact that this rally is organized by an escaped criminal be cause enough, mayor? 
speaker2: an escaped criminal...?
speaker1: a fugitive from one of your prisons, mayor -- a convicted thief who's been at large for some time under the alias of 'jack kelly.' his real name is...?
speaker3: sullivan, your honor -- francis sullivan. i would have caught him before now but --
speaker1: you know warden snyder, don't you, mayor? i believe you appointed him.
speaker2: if this boy is a fugitive, then the chief can quietly arrest him and --
speaker1: not quietly -- i want an example made. i want this rabble he's roused to see what happens to those who dare to -- well, they should see justice in action.
speaker2: arrest him at the rally? but...
speaker1: by the way, mayor, i'm having a few friends for cards that night -- newspaper friends, willie hearst, gordon bennett. perhaps you'll join us -- we can talk about the coming election.

speaker1: i'd be honored... thank you. 
speaker1: chief, when you arrest this kelly, you'd better go in force -- in case some of his misguided friends should start any trouble.

speaker1: extry, extry -- newsies take noo yawk! 
speaker2: hey, denton -- sit down front!
speaker3: i'm working press tonight. the only working press. as usual.
speaker4: as long as you keep writing about us, they're gonna know we exist.

speaker1: you know the boys, mayor -- mr. bennett of the tribune, mr. taylor of the times, of course you know mr. hearst -- and this is a new member of our little group, mr. gammon, who just came back from europe... 
speaker1: mr. gammon owns the new york sun.

speaker1: carryin' the banner! 
speaker2: carryin' the banner!

speaker1: we come a long way but we ain't there yet -- and maybe it's only gonna get tougher from now on! that means we get tougher too -- -- it also means we get smarter! that's why we're gonna listen to my pal david and stop soakin' the scabs -- 
speaker2: no! they asked for it -- etc.
speaker3: whatta we s'pose to do -- kiss 'em?
speaker1: i personally wouldn't go that far, race.
speaker4: any scab i see, i soak 'em -- period!
speaker5: that's just what they want you to do -- so they can say we're just thugs --
speaker4: i don't care what they say -- some of us ain't made to just take it! i say anybody hurts us, we hurts them worst! who's with me?

speaker1: loud voices, fists starting to fly, chaos -- 
speaker2: that's right -- start fightin' each other! prove what the big shots say is true -- we're street rats with no brains and no respect for nothin' -- includin' ourselves! here's how it is: we don't stick together, we're nothin'. we don't trust each other, we're nothin'. we don't act together, we're nothin' -- and we might as well go back to the streets where we belong. what's it gonna be? whattaya say, spot?
speaker3: i say --
speaker3: i say... what you say... i say!

speaker1: hiya, newsies -- what's new? 
speaker2: hey, medda, anytime you're off to the races, remember -- i got all the winners!
speaker1: you're all winners here tonight, racetrack. just being with you makes me feel kinda extra extra.
speaker3: i'm dead, i'm in heaven -- somebody gimme a harp!
speaker1: but you never know what life will bring. over the years, i've developed quite an outlook --
speaker4: oooo, lookout for that outlook!
speaker1: and all kinds of people are always asking my advice, well, for instance --

speaker1: medda moves through the crowd: 
speaker2: you boys sing as sweet as songbirds.
speaker3: lookit me, i'm a bird, i'm flyin', i'm flyin' --
speaker4: it's a beautiful, medda, i tellya, i never heard such beautiful!
speaker5: my prettiest one, medda -- it's like your eyes.
speaker2: thank you, boots. would you keep it for me? for luck?

speaker1: medda, whattayasay -- you and me, saratoga. we catch the races, maybe a nightclub -- i'm dreamin', huh? it's some other guy -- right? 
speaker2: i'm afraid so, race...

speaker1: aren't you warden snyder? 
speaker1: i'm denton of the sun. i've heard about your work with young people. i wonder if you'd agree to an interview?

speaker1: show's over, cowboy. 
speaker2: curtain goin' up, jack -- !
speaker3: try to reach the skylight -- !
speaker4: carryin' the banner!

speaker1: unhand that boy this instant! i said hands off the kid, you red- faced baboon! get out of my theater -- out, out, out, out, out! 
speaker1: if you're tired of beating up children, maybe you'd like to try a lady next.
speaker1: run, david, hurry --
speaker2: they got jack --
speaker1: you can't help him if you're in jail, too! you were right, david -- you've got to keep fighting them -- always. now go. please.

speaker1: awrise, awrise, court is now in session, judge e.a. monahan presiding. 
speaker2: any of you represented by counsel? no? good. that'll move things along considerably.
speaker3: judge movealong, ya honor, i object.
speaker2: on what grounds?
speaker3: on the grounds of brooklyn, ya honor!
speaker2: i fine you each five dollars or two weeks confinement in --
speaker4: five bucks! we ain't got five cents!
speaker5: i'll pay the fines. all of them.
speaker6: pay the clerk. next.
speaker7: thanks, i owe ya, you're a right guy, denton, etc.

speaker1: meet me at the restaurant, all of you. we have to talk. 
speaker2: talk and eat, right? on you, huh, pal?
speaker3: hiya, fellas! hey, denton -- guess we made all the papes this time, huh? how'd my picture look?
speaker1: none of the papers covered the rally. not even the sun.
speaker4: case of jack kelly, inciting to riot, assault, resisting arrest.
speaker5: judge monahan, i'll speak for this young man --
speaker3: you two know each other? ain't that nice.

speaker1: just move it along, warden snyder. 
speaker2: this boy's real name is francis sullivan; mother deceased; father a convict in the state penitentiary --
speaker2: he is currently an escapee from the house of refuge, where his original sentence of three months for theft was extended six months for disruptive behavior --
speaker3: -- like demandin' you give us the food you steal from us --
speaker2: -- followed by an additional six months for an attempted escape --
speaker3: -- last time wasn't no attempt, remember, snyder? me and teddy roosevelt wavin' bye-bye --
speaker2: -- therefore, i ask that he be returned to the house of refuge --
speaker3: -- for my own good, right, movealong? -- and for what snyder kicks back to ya --
speaker2: -- and that the court order his incarceration until the age of twenty-one --
speaker1: so ordered. next.

speaker1: he won't be there long -- the jail ain't built that jack can't bust outta. 
speaker2: they're buildin' some mighty good jails these days...
speaker3: so where's denton?
speaker4: he said he'd be here. we can't let this stop us. we gotta keep the strike going, just like jack was here.
speaker5: yeah, but jack ain't here.
speaker3: we know that, genius -- if he was here, he'd be tellin' us what to do when he ain't here.
speaker6: you bummers is givin' me a headache.
speaker4: where you goin'? we need you.
speaker6: nachally spot conlon is needed wherever -- which right now is brooklyn. some of my boys is worried, i must give ear to their concerns --

speaker1: -- and reassure them. 
speaker2: why didn't the sun print the story?
speaker3: because it never happened.
speaker4: never happened; whattaya mean? etc.

speaker1: if it's not in the papers, then it never happened. the owners decreed that it not be in the papers, therefore... i just came to tell you fellows goodbye. 
speaker2: denton, what's happened -- you get fired or somethin'?
speaker1: reassigned -- back to my old job as the sun's ace war correspondent. the owner thinks i should be covering only the 'really important' stories. so wish me luck, boys. at least half what i wish you. they don't always fire you, david.
speaker2: they bought you off... didn't they?
speaker1: they could've blackballed me from every paper in the country. i'm a newspaperman, i have to have a paper to write for.
speaker1: this is the story i wrote about the rally. i want you to read it at least.

speaker1: where they takin' him...? 
speaker2: one way to find out. meet me back at the square!

speaker1: very impressive. so where do they keep the trains in this station? 
speaker1: sorry to see you ain't doin' so good, joe.

speaker1: know what i was doing when i was your age? i was in a war. the civil war. 
speaker2: i heard of it. you win?
speaker1: people think wars are about right and wrong. they're not. they're about power. you know what power is?
speaker2: heard of that, too. i don't just sell ya papes, joe. sometimes i read 'em.
speaker1: power means that i could see to it that you serve your full sentence at the refuge. or i could pull strings and have you free tomorrow. it means i could give you my pocket change -- and you'd have more money than you'd likely ever earn.
speaker2: you bribin' me, joe? thanks for the compliment, but i ain't got the power to stop the strike --
speaker1: i disagree. you're the spirit of the strike, without you, they'd fall apart in a few days.
speaker2: ring for my coach, willya? it's past my bedtime --
speaker1: shut your mouth and listen ! you're going to do exactly as i say --

speaker1: -- or what? you'll send me back to the refuge? i'll bust out again -- 
speaker2: -- and be a fugitive who's pursued and caught and returned. i'm offering you a choice -- is that what you choose?
speaker1: i told ya... i can't call off the strike.
speaker2: i'm not asking you to. all i ask is that you return to your old job -- as newsie for the the world.
speaker1: and be a scab? forget it --
speaker2: for a few days. then the strike ends -- and it will end, boy, make no mistake -- and you can go wherever you want to buy a ticket. free and clear, with money in your pocket... and no one chasing you.
speaker2: you go back to the refuge. think it over in your cell. let me know in the morning.

speaker1: after him! 
speaker2: don't worry. he's got no place to go.
speaker3: why're you stoppin' -- we've got to run!
speaker4: you shouldn't'a done this, david.
speaker3: it's worth it -- let's go --
speaker4: you go to jail, what happens to your family? you don't know nothin' about jail! thanks for what you done, but you gotta get outta here --
speaker3: i don't understand --
speaker4: i don't either -- i don't understand nothin' no more!
speaker4: just go!

speaker1: snitched it offa snyder's plate when i was servin' him -- the biggest one! snyder was eatin' good tonight -- the stuff we don't never get? patatas... olives... ... liver and bacon. sauerkraut... guess what i done to his sauerkraut. 
speaker2: so what's it git'cha?
speaker1: anudder three months, prob'ly. but you can't let 'em beat'cha, right, jack?
speaker2: we was beat when we was born.

speaker1: stop the world -- don't scab, stop the world -- don't scab, etc. 
speaker2: nobody sells a pape today -- we're hurtin' them and they know it! remember -- no soakin', no hittin' -- etc.
speaker3: look... i'm seein' t'ings... tell me i'm seeing t'ings -- !
speaker4: what's he doin' with the scabs...?
speaker5: it ain't happenin'... it can't be happenin'...
speaker6: hey, jack -- it's me, mush, lookit me -- look, willya?
speaker7: where'd he get them clothes -- ?
speaker8: mr. pulitzer picked 'em out hisself. a special gift to a special new employee. only not so new, huh, cowboy?
speaker3: he sold us out! ya dirty scab, i'll murder ya -- !

speaker1: this is why you wouldn't escape last night -- why'd you do it? talk to me, you liar! what else did he give you to sell us out -- money? what else? look at me! you lie about everything -- headlines, your family -- -- because nobody counts but you -- nobody or nothing! look at me. 
speaker2: i'm gonna be lookin' for you, wiseguy -- -- or maybe you'd like a nice new suit of your own.
speaker1: keep after them -- we don't need him! stop the world -- don't scab! etc.
speaker3: he's just foolin' 'em... so he can spy on them or something... that's it. he's spyin' on 'em.

speaker1: ready or not, it can handle a broom. 
speaker2: what is this?
speaker3: hey -- i'm saving that!
speaker1: don't be too hard on your friend. maybe he had his reasons for doing what he did.
speaker3: i told you. he's spyin' on 'em.
speaker1: there. you see?
speaker2: it's denton's story. 'the dark truth: why our city really fears the newsie strike, by bryan denton. last night i saw naked force exercised against mere boys, the newsies, who earn at best a few pennies a day. i wondered why so much, against so little -- '

speaker1: sleep well, cowboy...? 
speaker2: come wit' us, cowboy -- we're gonna fix your pal davey today -- fix 'im so's he can't walk no more.
speaker3: shuddup!

speaker1: les, come on -- you're supposed to be helping me today. 
speaker2: i'd rather be soakin' scabs. he stops to kibbitz a game of marbles in an alley. sarah walks on -- suddenly a man steps in front of her.
speaker3: 'scuse me, sweetface.
speaker2: get away from my sister!
speaker4: where's ya brudder, tootsie?
speaker1: you... stupid... ape!

speaker1: david! run -- get away! 
speaker2: yeah, run, davey! we got the best parta ya family right here!
speaker1: david, no -- don't -- !
speaker3: jack!
speaker4: ya better run, cowboy -- we're tellin' weasel! you'll be back in the refuge by supper time! oscar yeah, run, ya lousy coward -- run!
speaker5: couldn't stay away, huh.
speaker6: guess i can't be somethin' i ain't.
speaker5: a scab...?
speaker6: nah. smart.

speaker1: without you, the strike's falling apart... 
speaker2: i got no choice. i stay here, they lock me up 'til i'm twenty- one.
speaker3: jack, for the trip -- a pair of cowboy boots! sorta.
speaker4: who knows what's to eat where you're going?
speaker5: a few things of mine and david's.
speaker2: who needs it...? i go down to the train yards, hop me a freight, go in the best style -- free...
speaker5: i don't know what's waiting for you in santa fe, but you'll always have family here.
speaker6: you're not going to run away. they'll just come after you. you have to fight them.

speaker1: they got it all wrapped up, sarah and nothin' i can do is gonna make one bit of difference. 
speaker2: you're wrong. you touched people you don't even know about.
speaker2: denton's story.
speaker1: denton looked out for hisself just like i gotta do -- so save it.
speaker2: just listen! 'the men who run this city are terrified of the newsies strike -- because other child laborers in the factories and sweatshops are hearing the message of the newsies leader --'
speaker3: that's you! he's writin' about you!
speaker2: 'in the voice of jack kelly, these children hear strength and pride. most of all, they hear hope...' jack listens questioningly.
speaker1: keep reading.
speaker4: ' -- and that is what terrifies the powers-that-be, for they know our city thrives on the shame of child labor. therefore, jack kelly's voice must be stopped, whatever the cost... good writing, isn't it?

speaker1: they think if the newsies can do it, why can't they? all they need is a leader. 
speaker2: the minute i show my face, i'm back in the refuge.
speaker1: you'd have help this time. i've been investigating the refuge -- i know somebody who's going to be very interested in snyder's little racket.
speaker3: what happened to the ace war correspondent?
speaker1: this war'll do for now.
speaker4: whatever happens, it's jack's decision. he's the one in danger.
speaker5: jack...? you thinkin'...?
speaker2: yeah... i'm thinkin' of newsie square full of kids...
speaker3: ... another rally, right under pulitzer's nose, and not just the newsies --
speaker2: -- every workin' kid from every sweatshop in new york. we gotta get the word out -- let's go get the newsies -- they still think i'm a scab...
speaker5: i'll tell 'em you was a spy!

speaker1: how're you gonna reach all these people? no paper in new york will print anything about the strike. 
speaker2: we're newsies, ain't we? so we make our own paper.
speaker3: be quiet and let me think.
speaker2: whattaya need to start a paper? writers, right? so we got denton.
speaker4: advertisements! cartoons?
speaker1: a printing press. and no paper or printer is going to defy pulitzer.
speaker2: les. go set me straight with the newsies, okay? tell 'em to meet us later at the world building.
speaker2: so happens i know a guy with a printing press.

speaker1: they're right above us -- and if weasel catches us, it won't be just me they'll throw in the slammer -- 
speaker2: what -- ?
speaker1: i said shhhh! -- or we all go to jail!

speaker1: you thinkin' you'd like to take a shot at my schnozz -- right? five to one says you can't break it. 
speaker2: the cops are looking for jack -- we gotta protect him --
speaker3: any bull comes after jack, they gotta go through all of us.
speaker4: what's with the bundle, jack -- ya leavin'?
speaker5: sante fe bound, boots -- but not without givin' pulitzer one last kiss goodbye --
speaker6: boys -- !

speaker1: i thought you'd feel that way, governor roosevelt. 
speaker2: dis-graceful, denty! those poor boys -- and i did nothing! until now!

speaker1: they're all yelling at me -- me! -- factory owners, bankers, businessmen -- the whole city's at a standstill and they're blaming it on me -- ! 
speaker2: kelly's down there. he should be back in jail.
speaker3: those kids got out a pretty good paper, chief.
speaker2: too good! those illiterate guttersnipes couldn't have done this on their own. somebody's behind this, trying to pull a fast one...
speaker4: mr. hearst on the line, sir. wants to know if you've read the newsies' paper?
speaker1: i'm not taking the heat for this -- you've got to talk to them -- settle it --
speaker2: tell hearst i'm busy! i'll settle it all right -- once and for all.

speaker1: like i said, i don't transact business with no office boys. we talk to old joe hisself or we don't talk. period. 
speaker2: then i guess you talk.

speaker1: you're going to listen to me, boy -- 
speaker2: i'd like to, joe -- -- but i can't hear ya.
speaker1: we had a deal -- you broke it.
speaker2: maybe. but you can't put every kid in that square in jail. they ain't goin' away, joe.
speaker1: neither am i. i can wait them out. it won't be me that's hurt.
speaker2: you sure about that? he nods at david who produces a paper, reads:

speaker1: 'since the strike, the world's circulation has dropped 70 per cent; advertising has been cut in half -- ' every day you lose thousands of dollars -- just so you can beat us out of a lousy tenth of a cent per paper. why? 
speaker2: it ain't about money, dave -- if joe gives in, that would mean nothin's like us got power. he can't let that happen -- no matter what it costs him. right, joe?
speaker3: i'm about to show you what power really is...
speaker3: i have the police outside waiting to arrest you --
speaker1: you lousy double-crossing -- !
speaker3: -- then i'll deal with that rabble in the street.
speaker2: ya got me, joe -- but tell me one thing, willya? how'd ya like our paper -- nice printin', ain't it? right off the presses of one of new york's greatest newspapers -- that stops him. he looks at jack, frowning.
speaker3: all the papers have an agreement... we print nothing about the newsies. whose press did you use? it was hearst, wasn't it...!

speaker1: hearst? nah, it was yo -- 
speaker2: i knew it. whoever helped you print this lying rag is trying to break the strike, get the jump on the rest of us. well, you're going to expose this backstabber to the other owners -- in exchange, i'll call off the police.
speaker1: not enough, joe -- you gotta deal with our demands. otherwise, our lips are sealed.
speaker2: all right, all right -- just say the traitor's name. it's hearst, isn't it? say it! say the name of the scoundrel whose press you used so i can make him the disgrace of the newspaper world! say his name, you! he thunders over them, eyes blazing in triumph. the boys say nothing, just smile up at him knowingly until at last the horrible truth begins to dawn and --
speaker1: we just wanna say, 'thanks, joe.' and hearst and them other owners? maybe they don't have to know. depends.
speaker2: perhaps we can resolve our... small differences.

speaker1: jack -- ! jack -- ! 
speaker2: i don't know how he got in here, mr. seitz -- but i'll take care of him, with pleasure. just say the word!
speaker3: with pleasure. you're fired.
speaker2: come again...?
speaker1: he said, you're fired.
speaker4: the strike's over -- we beat 'em!

speaker1: we brought the warden over to say goodbye. goodbye, warden. 
speaker2: remember what i told ya -- first t'ing ya do in jail, you make friends with the rats, share what you got in common -- hiya, jack! my leg tells me the strike's over!

speaker1: ya orta seen it, jack -- he came chargin' into the refuge wavin' his walkin' stick like a sword and he's leadin' this army of lawyers and cops and snyder's hidin' in the patata bin -- 
speaker2: what're you talkin' about -- who come chargin' in?
speaker1: who? your pal! him!

speaker1: governor roosevelt's very grateful that this problem was brought to his attention. he'd like to offer you a lift, anywhere you like. this time, you ride inside. 
speaker2: think he could drop me at the train yards?

speaker1: you really goin' this time...? 
speaker2: it's now or never, racetrack.
speaker1: won't be the same without ya. give ya even odds on that.
speaker3: see ya in the funny papes, cowboy --
speaker2: yeah, blink, keep ya eye peeled.
speaker4: ya hear what he said -- blink says... ya hear it?
speaker5: we heard it. my best shooters. never know when ya need good shooters.
speaker6: take it easy, jackie- boy. ya ever get in a spot -- -- think of me.
speaker7: don't wanna alarm ya, jack, but what i hear, out west ain't like new york at all -- it's fulla bulls, for one t'ing -- not cops, neither, but big ugly animals with horns and --
speaker2: i'll miss ya, crutch.

speaker1: i ain't no good at writin' and stuff but... i'll be thinkin' of ya... 
speaker2: you don't have to run away anymore, jack. you have a choice now.
speaker3: we won today, but the fight's not over. you're needed, jack. we need you. here.
speaker1: maybe that's what scares me...

speaker1: call it, les! 
speaker2: comin' down the chute!

