speaker1: number seven. she trots away. 
speaker1: zing!

speaker1: choo! choo!... 
speaker1: i'm a locomotive, baby! i'm the wabash cannonball! i'm a hunka-hunka burninnnnn' love! i got fire in my boiler and a fuh -- a fuh --
speaker2: tickets, please.
speaker1: excuse me, miss, is this the train to ecsssstasy?
speaker2: pull in your ears, rexie -- you're comin' to a tunnel!
speaker1: i'm gonna nail your ass!

speaker1: i'm gonna nail your ass!! 
speaker1: i'm gonna nail your ass!

speaker1: i nailed his ass. 
speaker2: trains...

speaker1: ...i thought he'd outgrown trains. 
speaker2: they never grow-up, lady. they just get tubby. me, i've always had ample proportions. but it's all muscle -- i'm hard as a rock. i'm not on of these cream puff sit-behind-a desk private dicks; i'm an assnailer
speaker1: so i see.
speaker3: i'm gonna nail your ass.
speaker1: hard to believe that's the best he could do.
speaker2: probably you're the best he could do.
speaker1: oh. thank you.
speaker2: you're takin' it pretty well. i seen 'em weep like they'd hired me to prove their husbands weren't fooling around. and i seen 'em celebrate. like i just handed 'em a winning lottery ticket.
speaker1: i'm just enjoying the movie.
speaker4: all from the perspective of a moving automobile.

speaker1: honey! ...honey?! 
speaker2: rex. get away from the door.
speaker1: look, marylin, can't we have a civilized discussion about this?
speaker2: we are. and it's winding down.
speaker1: but marylin, you know a divorce would ruin me right now. everything i have -- everything we have -- is tied up in my business. the business is my entire life.
speaker2: are you forgetting about the atcheson, topeka and the santa fe?
speaker1: marylin?
speaker2: rex. go away. i don't want to have to sic the dogs on you.
speaker1: dogs?

speaker1: the problem is that everyone is willing to compromise. that's the problem with the institution of marriage -- it's based on compromise. even through its dissolution. one attorney will try to score some points, the opposition will try to impeach. the process will find an equilibrium point determined by the skill of the opposing lawyers, and then each party will walk away with their portion of the "goodies." some say, "life is compromise." but at massey myerson we believe life is struggle and the ultimate destruction of your opponent. 
speaker2: your eleven o'clock is here.
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen -- we will continue this at the associates meeting next friday. in the meantime, i want you to consider this... ivan the terrible, henry the viii, attila the hun -- what did they have in common?
speaker3: middle names?

speaker1: mr. rexroth. 
speaker2: rex, please.
speaker1: miles massey. please sit, relax, and consider this office your office, your haven, your war room -- for the duration of the campaign.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: now rex.
speaker1: -- tell me your troubles.
speaker2: jeez. where do i start?
speaker2: ...well, my wife has me between a rock and a hard place.
speaker1: that's her job. you have to respect that.
speaker2: when i first met marylin -- well, we were crazy about each other. not emotionally, of course. we just couldn't keep our hands off each other.
speaker1: mm.
speaker2: but then... but then...
speaker1: time marches on. ardor cools.
speaker2: no. not exactly. it didn't exactly cool. marylin is a knock-out. and very -- but -- there's a lot of it out there.
speaker1: ah.
speaker2: you know what i mean when i say "it."
speaker1: gotcha. no need to get anatomically correct with me, rex.
speaker2: seems like there's more of it than ever before --
speaker1: well, with the expanding global population -- let me ask you this -- your wife. has she pursued the opportunities which must present themselves to the "knock-out, woman" you described?
speaker2: i don't know. i can assume...
speaker1: not in court you can't. has she retained counsel?
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker1: and your wife is aware of or has evidence of your activities?
speaker2: video.
speaker1: mmm... and to cut to the chase, forensically speaking -- is there a pre-nup? rex hangs his head.
speaker1: the fault, dear brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. well, let me ask you this: what kind of settlement do you seek? what are, for you, the parameters of the possible?
speaker2: that's the problem. i can't afford to give her anything.
speaker1: nothing?
speaker2: i know that sounds rough but i'm about to close on a deal to develop some mini-malls, and i'm mortgaged up to my ass. if this deal goes south, i'm ruined -- i'll lose millions.
speaker1: so, you propose that in spite of demonstrable infidelity on your part, your unoffending wife should be tossed out on her ear?
speaker2: well -- is that possible?

speaker1: you want to come out to the beach house tomorrow? 
speaker2: i didn't know barry had a beach house.
speaker1: neither did i until my lawyer found it -- quite a paper trail -- he had it in the dog's name.
speaker3: so who'd you hire?
speaker2: ruth rabino.
speaker1: she's a legend. didn't she do kravis or a pearlman? she definitely did a factor.
speaker2: she did a harriman.
speaker1: wow.
speaker2: in the words of my private investigator, we're going to nail his ass.
speaker3: i've been trying to nail george's for years, but he's very careful. i'll just keep having children. i think i'm pregnant, by the way.
speaker1: ramona! don't get mia farrow on us.
speaker3: three is not farrow.
speaker1: who's rex's guy?
speaker2: miles massey.
speaker1: of massey myerson?
speaker2: do you know him?
speaker1: by reputation. he got ann rumsey that cute little island of george's.
speaker3: george was so impressed he hired him when he divorced his second.
speaker1: muriel rumsey.
speaker2: who's she?
speaker1: now? she's a night manager at mcdonalds.
speaker3: you should have tried to get pregnant marylin -- solidify your position.
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you like kids.
speaker2: i can't have a baby with a man i don't love... and i can't submit a child to divorce.
speaker1: it's not so bad these days. kids like joint custody. two sets of toys.
speaker3: maybe next time.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: we do have a man for you.
speaker3: thorstenson gieselensen. he just separated from his third. he's in fish. he is fish.
speaker1: she's keeping his name. and one of his planes. and all seven of his children
speaker3: and only two are hers.
speaker2: please. i'm not seeing anyone until this is over. one husband at a time.
speaker1: i wish i had your discipline.

speaker1: mrs. guttman, you have testified that you were your husband's sexual slave for thirty-six years, ever since you were married -- 
speaker2: except for two years when he was in the navy, in korea.
speaker1: prior to your marriage, what was your profession?
speaker2: i was a hostess. for trans-world airlines.
speaker1: what is your husband's profession?
speaker2: he manufactures staples and industrial brad-tacks. he's very successful.

speaker1: wait... he wants to give her...? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: and she has...?
speaker2: video.
speaker1: what the fuck...?
speaker2: wrigley!
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: sometimes i have serious doubts about you.
speaker1: i am very sorry.
speaker2: am i mentoring the wrong mentee?
speaker1: no. you're not.
speaker2: i could be mentoring kramer. kramer clerked for scalia.
speaker3: couldn't you simply walk away from this abusive relationship?
speaker4: no, he had the videos...
speaker2: anyway, i need a challenge. this -- he waves dismissively at the courtroom.
speaker2: -- is not a challenge. i need something i can sink my teeth into, professionally speaking.
speaker4: he would invite these girls home from the staple factory to our condominium in palm springs. he had a device he called the intruder.
speaker5: mr. massey! i ask again, if you have any questions for the complainant.
speaker2: i'm sorry, your honor, i was just conferring with my associate...
speaker2: now then, mrs. guttman. do you know a gentleman named morris rudnick?
speaker6: well, yes, morris is my accountant.
speaker2: accountant.
speaker2: we would like to offer these photographs into evidence...

speaker1: ...ruth! 
speaker1: -- ruth rabinow, this is rex rexroth. and you must be mrs. rexroth.
speaker2: and you must be mr. massey.
speaker2: hello, rex.
speaker3: marylin.
speaker2: are you alright? you lost weight.
speaker3: my whole metabolism is -- off.
speaker1: so, ruth. how's sam?
speaker4: sam is sam. he's taking up fly fishing. he's in a yert in montana.
speaker1: a yert. ruth is a living legend, rex. at a time when most women are in boca, having early bird specials -- she's working so her husband can be in montana. in a yert.
speaker3: what's a yert?
speaker4: i ran into your mother at the radiologist last week.
speaker1: what?!
speaker4: oh, just a routine mammogram. she said to say hello. she's going to positano with your brother's family.
speaker1: how nice.
speaker2: positano is beautiful. remember when we were there, rex? we stayed in the santo pietro? that hotel on the cliff?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: so, miles. if you have a proposal, let's hear it.
speaker1: at this point my client is still prepared to consider reconciliation.
speaker4: my client has ruled that out.
speaker1: my client is prepared to entertain an amicable dissolution of the marriage without prejudice.
speaker4: that's delusional.
speaker1: my client proposes a thirty day cooling off period.
speaker4: my client feels sufficiently dispassionate.
speaker1: my client asks that you not initiate proceedings pending his setting certain affairs in order.
speaker4: ha ha.
speaker1: heh heh.
speaker3: what's so funny?
speaker1: please -- let me handle this.
speaker1: -- so much for the icebreakers. what're you after, ruth?
speaker4: my client is prepared to settle for fifty percent of the marital assets.
speaker1: why only fifty percent, ruth? why not ask for a hundred percent?
speaker4: oh brother. here we go.
speaker1: why not a hundred and fifty percent?
speaker4: yes. maybe you're right, miles. maybe we're being too conservative. seventy five percent.
speaker2: do you need a tagamet?
speaker3: you have some?
speaker2: these are yours.
speaker1: not according to mrs. rabinow.
speaker2: have you been taking your digestive enzymes?
speaker3: sometimes i forget.
speaker2: i'm sorry. where were we?
speaker4: we were about to request the primary residence, and thirty percent of the remaining assets.
speaker1: are you familiar with kirshner?
speaker4: kirshner does not apply. kirshner was in kentucky.
speaker3: what's kirshner?
speaker1: please -- let me handle this. okay, ruth, forget kirshner -- what's your bottom line?
speaker4: the primary residence and forty percent of the remaining assets. you're becoming tedious miles.
speaker3: aren't we going in the wrong direction?
speaker1: shhh. please. let me do my job. buy a clue, ruthie. have you forgotten about kirshner?
speaker4: see you at the preliminary.
speaker1: fine. we'll eat all the pastry.
speaker1: i think that went as well as could be expected.
speaker3: she always looked out for me.
speaker1: and she had private investigators assisting her.
speaker3: she brought my digestive enzymes.
speaker1: in anticipation of making you sick.
speaker3: maybe i should reconsider my...
speaker1: a superficial display of marital solicitude, and you lose your resolve? rex. i underestimated you. but i'm your attorney, and if you choose to reward her for that mediocre charade of spousal concern...
speaker3: you're right. screw her.

speaker1: i don't know what his game is. he dismissed every one of ruth's proposals. and sarah, we weren't unreasonable. 
speaker2: well what does he want?
speaker1: i don't know. ruth kept her cool, but i could tell she was surprised.
speaker2: he has a reputation for being tough.
speaker1: lilly's up.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: every week --
speaker2: i'm dying.
speaker1: anyway, even rex seemed perplexed by his intransigence. if i didn't know better, i'd swear massey had some personal investment in my ruination.
speaker2: so where are you now?
speaker1: well, if he continues to maintain this position -- we're in court.
speaker2: 
speaker1: get this! he called and invited me to dinner.
speaker3: marylin? ready.
speaker1: huh? oh, yeah. sure.
speaker2: that's completely odd.
speaker3: that was excellent, marylin. but you forgot to yell "no."
speaker1: ah. no.

speaker1: miles rises from his seat as marylin enters. 
speaker2: mrs. rexroth. thank you for coming. the maitre d' is pulling out a chair for her.
speaker3: i have to admit. i was curious. and hungry.
speaker4: something to start? some wine, perhaps?
speaker2: french? bordeaux? hmmm. chateau margaux '57.
speaker3: i assume this is on rex?
speaker2: isn't everything?
speaker2: your husband told me you were beautiful, but i was unprepared.
speaker3: "dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery, for where a heart is hard, they make no battery."
speaker2: simon and garfunkel?
speaker2: do you have a hard heart, marylin.
speaker3: did you see the tape?
speaker2: not yet.
speaker3: see the tape. then we can discuss my heart.
speaker3: tell me mr. massey. what was your performance about this afternoon?
speaker2: what does your lawyer think?
speaker3: ruth says you've been too successful, that you're bored, complacent, and you're on your way down.
speaker2: but you don't agree?
speaker3: how do you know?
speaker2: why would you be here?
speaker3: i told you. i was hungry.
speaker2: i'll have the tournedos of beef. and the lady will have the same? i assume you're a carnivore.
speaker3: i know you do.
speaker3: risotto with white truffles, please.
speaker2: "who ever lov'd that lov'd not at first sight?"
speaker3: you didn't ask me here to pick me up. you could get in trouble for that.
speaker2: not really. you're not my client. freedom of association. big issue with the first amendment fans. want to go to hawaii for the weekend?
speaker3: have you ever been married, miles?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you don't believe in it.
speaker2: as a matter of fact, i'm a huge fan.
speaker3: you just haven't met the right person.
speaker2: no. i haven't. have you?
speaker3: all right, miles. let me tell you everything you think you know. i was married to rex for a long time. i was an excellent wife, a partner, a lover, a hostess and a friend. there was only one thing i did wrong during the five years we were together. i got five years older. think he should be able to ditch me for that?
speaker2: he wants a reconciliation.
speaker3: see the tape. then we can discuss reconciliation. rex screwed up and i nailed his ass. now i'm going to have it mounted and have my girlfriends over to throw darts at it. then i'm getting on with my life. that's all i'm after.
speaker2: gotcha.
speaker3: what is it you're after, miles?
speaker2: oh, i'm a lot like you -- just looking for an to mount.
speaker3: well, don't look at mine!
speaker5: oyez. oyez. family court for the fifth district of los angeles county is now in session.

speaker1: -- the honorable marva munson presiding. all rise. 
speaker2: have you sat before her before?
speaker3: -- the judge sits. we argue. we argue before her. she sits before us.
speaker2: okay. has she sat before you before?
speaker3: you can't sit before her. that's the rule! she sits before we argue!
speaker4: shut! up!

speaker1: i was devastated. of course. 
speaker2: thank you, mrs. rexroth.
speaker3: mr. massey, any questions?
speaker4: mmmm --
speaker4: "dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery, for where a heart is hard, they make no battery..."
speaker4: do you know those lines, mrs. rexroth?
speaker2: objection, your honor!
speaker3: grounds?
speaker2: uh... poetry recitation.
speaker4: let me rephrase. mrs. rexroth, how high is that wall around your heart?
speaker2: your honor, this is harassment! arid frankly it's still a little...
speaker2: ...arty farty!
speaker4: rephrase. mrs. rexroth, have you ever been in love?
speaker1: yes. i loved my husband, rex.
speaker4: and you've always loved him?
speaker1: "who ever lov'd that lov'd not at first sight?" miles returns a fleeting smile.
speaker4: and you hoped to spend the rest of your life with him?
speaker1: yes. why is that so difficult for you to understand?
speaker1: rex was -- is -- a very appealing man. i am sorry i couldn't... i tried my best.
speaker4: that'll be all mrs. rexroth. please forgive me for causing you additional anguish. thank you, your honor. no further questions.
speaker3: who's next, mrs. rabinow.
speaker2: we rest, your honor.
speaker3: mr. massey?
speaker4: yes, your honor. i call patricia kennedy decordoba isenberg.
speaker5: patricia kennedy decordoba isenberg.
speaker2: who's that?
speaker1: 
speaker5: mrs. isenberg.
speaker6: banderas.
speaker5: mrs. banderas, do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth so help you god?
speaker6: yes, mr. bailiff. i do.
speaker4: now, mrs. banderas. what is your relationship to mrs. rexroth.
speaker6: we don't have much of a relationship anymore. i haven't seen her since before she married rex. we had some very nice times prior to that. we were quite close.
speaker2: is this a lover?
speaker1: please!
speaker4: and how would you define your relationship to mrs. rexroth. you know -- you are her...?
speaker6: mother?
speaker2: what?!
speaker4: her mother?
speaker6: hi, sweetie.
speaker4: hard to believe i know. i'm sure you are frequently mistaken for sisters.
speaker1: he'll regret this.
speaker4: have you ever met mr. rexroth?
speaker6: no. i haven't. but i've been out of town. hello, rex. hello there.
speaker4: you were never invited to meet your son-in-law?
speaker6: no. uh uh. i don't think so. hmm? no. well... no.
speaker2: objection, your honor. this isn't about mrs. rexroth's filial obligations.
speaker3: sustained.
speaker4: did you know mrs. rexroth was married?
speaker6: of course. of course she was married. what else would she be? single? i don't think so.
speaker6: let me tell you something about patty.
speaker4: who's "patty."
speaker6: oh. that's her name. patricia. like mine. i was pat and she was patty. but she changed it after seeing "some like it hot." to marylin. after marylin monroe.
speaker4: i see. and what were you going to tell us about patty slash marylin?
speaker6: when she was a tiny girl? and people asked her what she wanted to be when she grew up? she never said the usual things little girls say -- like -- nurse -- ballerina -- anchorwoman? she always said -- "when i grow up, i want to be divorced." she laughs happily at the memory.
speaker4: divorce was her childhood aspiration?
speaker6: well, not just divorce. she used to say "i want to be divorced from some big rich guy..." and i guess her dream is coming true. i'm happy for you patty

speaker1: it was like that scene in the godfather. frankie pentangeli is called to testify against the family. and he's in court, and he looks into the spectators gallery, and sees his brother. they brought the brother from sicily. and frankie can't say a word. he can't testify. that's what it was like seeing pat in there. i couldn't even have ruth cross examine her. 
speaker2: why do you think she did it?
speaker1: maybe she wanted a free trip to la. maybe they offered her money. massey is very seductive. who knows.
speaker2: maybe they put a horse head in her bed?
speaker3: that stinks. they left you with absolutely nothing. it makes you wonder about the entire legal system. like rodney king.
speaker1: they bought her speech. if i was only in it for rex's money, he shouldn't have to give me any.
speaker2: that doesn't make sense. it's like punishing you for being goal oriented.
speaker3: well, you can live here as long as you want. do you have any plans?
speaker1: nothing specific, but i'll have my own place soon.
speaker3: so, marylin. is that what you said when you were a little girl?
speaker1: probably. every woman in my life was divorced at least twice. what was i supposed to say. anthropologist?
speaker2: i begged you to have a baby!
speaker1: in the godfather, after the courtroom scene, frankie pentangeli opens his veins in the bathtub.
speaker3: you're not...
speaker1: no. i'll see some blood before this is over, but it won't be mine.

speaker1: she got absolutely nothing. zero. zip. 
speaker2: so. i won't be seeing her? your clients usually visit me after the settlement.
speaker1: not this one. not unless her hmo covers plastic surgery, which, incidentally, she does not need.
speaker2: everyone needs plastic surgery. you need it.
speaker1: i don't need it.
speaker2: you want botox?
speaker1: what the is botox?
speaker2: it's a form of botulism. i just inject it into your forehead, and it paralyzes your eyebrows so you can't raise them...
speaker1: why in name would i want...?
speaker2: no frown lines. new watch?
speaker1: it's a lecoultre revers. you can flip the face, and set it for two time zones.
speaker2: why would you need two time zones? you never leave beverly hills.
speaker1: it was a gift from a client.
speaker2: set one side for bel air.
speaker1: botox. christ. we had aspirations when we were in college.
speaker2: we did not.
speaker1: you were going to be a cardiac surgeon. i was going to clerk for the supreme court.
speaker2: i was going to play golf. you were going to have asian girlfriends.
speaker1: denial is not a river in egypt.
speaker2: you're in check.
speaker1: i should be in therapy.
speaker1: yes. your husband did show remarkable foresight in taking those pictures. and, yes, absent a swimming pool, the presence of the pool man would appear to be suspicious. but bonnie, who is the real victim here? let me suggest the following. your husband, who on a prior occasion slapped you -- beat you --
speaker3: well, i wouldn't say --
speaker1: your husband, who has beaten you -- repeatedly --
speaker3: he --
speaker1: please -- was at the time brandishing your firearm, trying in his rage to shoot an acquaintance -- friend of long standing --
speaker3: they hate each other --
speaker1: so he says now! but if not for your cool headed intervention, his tantrum might have ended this schmoe's life and ruined his own... as for the sexual indiscretion which he imagined had taken place, wasn't it in fact he who had been sleeping with the pool man?
speaker1: am i going to far here?
speaker4: mr. massey, mr. meyerson would like to see you when you have a moment.
speaker1: herb wants to see me?
speaker4: when you have a moment.

speaker1: thoity-six objections sustained, tree overruled; fawteen summary judgements sought, toiteen ranite, eighteen movments to voice fuh respondent's prejudice, eighteen ranite which is a hunnut pissent 
speaker1: -- twelve cawt days on the rexrawt case alone; tree hunut'n twenty billable hours paralegal soivicies; four hunnut'n two billable associate counsel and consultative; six hunnut'n eighty billable at full attorney rate and eightyfive lunches charged.
speaker1: -- counseluh, you are the engine that drives this foim --
speaker2: thank you herb.

speaker1: mr. massey -- 
speaker2: please! no calls! i'm feeling very fragile.
speaker1: i'm sorry, mr. massey, but i felt certain you'd want to know -- marylin rexroth wants to see you.
speaker2: marylin rexroth? when does she --
speaker1: she's here now.

speaker1: marylin! how nice. 
speaker1: marylin! how lovely, uh --
speaker1: -- marylin! what a pleasure --
speaker2: on miles as he opens the door, suavely smiling.
speaker1: marylin, what a pleas -- who the are you?
speaker3: miles, how nice of you to see us -- may i introduce howard d. doyle of doyle oil.
speaker4: i told you we know each other, baby. mr. massey represented my ex-brother- in law. martin reiser?
speaker1: oh. right. won't you have a seat?
speaker4: after you, doll.
speaker1: and how is mrs. reiser?
speaker4: few suicide attempts, little inpatient stint. naturally, she misses her kids. six weekends a year and alternate yom kippurs seemed harsh to us but -- hey -- all's fair. anyhoo, she lives with a "nurse," takes her meds and goes to occupational therapy at a local sheltered workshop.
speaker1: so she's uh, flourishing?
speaker4: she makes felt wallets. got one right here.
speaker4: yeah. i know. leather would be more practical, but whatcha gonna do?
speaker3: miles, i know you're busy and that you charge by the hour so i'll come to the point. howard and i are planning to marry.
speaker1: muh -- well, uh -- huh?
speaker4: yep. my divorce just came through. shoulda called you. coulda cut a better deal! my wife still has health insurance and gets to see the children. but, i don't know. guess i'm just a softie. after all amanda and me were together for -- what -- you'd know better than me, marylin. she was your best friend.
speaker3: sixteen years? howard jr. is fourteen and mandy must be what -- twelve?
speaker4: here. got pictures.
speaker1: i... uh guess congratulations are in order.
speaker4: well -- marylin and rex broke up and...
speaker3: honey, i don't think this is really relevant to...
speaker4: ...and one day, this sweet girl calls me, asks me to lunch. just a shoulder to cry on deal. one thing leads to another and before i know it --
speaker3: -- we realized we'd always been very attracted to one another.
speaker1: no!
speaker4: i had no idea until after, but -- he looks at her with predatory lust.
speaker4: baby. you are so hot!
speaker3: howard!
speaker1: what a touching story.
speaker4: you know, miles, after my wife -- wife's mastectomy -- things were never the same. this might sound cold, well, maybe not to you, massey, but... i like my women with two boobs.
speaker3: howard and i are here, miles, because i have learned through bitter experience that when it comes to matrimonial law, you are the very best.
speaker3: as you are well aware, my previous marriage ended with an unjustified strain on my reputation my motives were questioned. i was slandered in court.
speaker4: you did good, massey!
speaker3: therefore in an effort to remove any trace of suspicion from my sweet howard -- i wish to execute a pre- nuptial agreement.
speaker4: and -- there's no talking her out of it. believe me, i've tried.
speaker3: they say the massey pre-nup has never been penetrated.
speaker4: she said "penetrate." heh heh heh.
speaker1: oh, for the love of...
speaker3: that is true, isn't it miles? your pre-nup is the best there is?
speaker1: that is correct. not to blow my own horn, but they devote an entire semester to it at harvard law.
speaker4: harvard? whoa, daddy!
speaker1: i just want to make sure that you both -- he eyes marylin.
speaker1: -- understand what you're asking for here. the massey pre-nup provides that in the event of a dissolution of the marriage for any reason, both parties shall leave it with whatever they brought in, and earned during. no one can profit from the marriage. the pre-nup protects the wealthier party.
speaker4: well -- at the moment, that'd be me.
speaker1: and without it, that party is exposed -- a sitting duck. no wriggle room.
speaker4: a wriggle room! maybe we should put that in the malibu house. screw the screening room!
speaker1: -- and we are sure...
speaker1: -- we are both sure that's what we want?
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker4: course i can't do much "wriggling" if you tie me up like that again. massey -- this is one bad bad little girl.
speaker3: we'd better go before we get thrown out.

speaker1: excuse me, mr. doyle, if i could just borrow your charming fiancee for a moment. 
speaker2: what part?
speaker1: i'd just like to have a word with her.
speaker2: why not? i'm going to have her for a lifetime.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker3: getting married.
speaker1: to him? he's a sick freak.
speaker3: he's passionate.
speaker1: passionate! he's a pervert. he should have to register when he moves.
speaker3: all girls enjoy a little rough trade from time to time.
speaker1: marylin! listen to me.
speaker3: no. you listen to me. you busted me, miles. you left me with nothing! what did you expect me to do? get a degree in counseling? write a book about table linen? because that's what wives do when they get dumped, and frankly, i'm not quite ready for that.
speaker1: but why him?
speaker3: we told you. we realized we've always been in love.
speaker1: the massey pre-nup has never been pene -- successfully challenged.
speaker3: so i hear. is that all?
speaker1: no, that's not all.
speaker1: you fascinate me.
speaker1: do you think i'm going to end up like herb myerson, with a colostomy bag instead of a family?
speaker4: got any symptoms?
speaker1: yes. the inability to experience pleasure.
speaker4: oh. that. don't waste time with your queen.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: the center counter defense. the thing is not to move your queen too early.
speaker1: she can't really love that can she?
speaker4: what?
speaker1: marylin rexroth. she came into my office and signed a pre-nup with howard doyle.
speaker4: doyle oil? a massey pre-nup? she loves him.
speaker1: he's the wrong man.
speaker4: miles! don't waste time with someone else's queen, either.

speaker1: parsley sage, rosemary and thyme -- remember me to one who lives there... 
speaker1: -- she once was a true love of mine.
speaker2: what the is wrong with you?
speaker3: i can't help it. even with the business we're in, i -- it gets me every time. it's so -- optimistic.
speaker2: is she going through with it?
speaker3: if she's not going through with it, she's cutting it awful close.
speaker4: parsley sage rosemary and thyme. ingredients. spices. spicy ingredients for the banquet we call -- life. marriage is like a great feast. courtship is the appetizer. a small mixed green taste of things to come. the early years -- the first course -- a carefully poached fish dish dependent on freshness and delicate handling. or perhaps a light pasta -- a tortellini stuffed with cheese and hope.
speaker3: you have any gum or mints?
speaker5: the main course -- mature love -- a hearty stew, cooked slowly in the oven of companionship until the meat falls off the bone. and then -- dessert. the reward for years spent together -- the sweetness of a life well lived. a sorbet of grandchildren, followed by the decafe demitasse of retirement.
speaker6: do you chaim david doyle, take marylin to be the barbara to your wolfgang though the lean years as well as those that are heavily marbled?
speaker7: i do.
speaker4: and do you, marylin rexroth, take chaim to be the roux in your bechamel? the stock in your sauce?
speaker8: i do.
speaker2: argh.
speaker4: then, by the power vested in me by the state of california, and as the maitre'd in the prix fixe four star restaurant of life, i now pronounce you -- man and wife...

speaker1: what do you think? 
speaker2: what are they?
speaker1: berry spoons.
speaker2: spoons! honestly wrigley, i'm surprised at you. what is this? some martha stewart suggestion? those are the most cockamamie things i've ever --
speaker1: miles -- why so angry?
speaker2: why couldn't we be the club sandwich?
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls: i have something to say to my bride.
speaker3: -- darling, like the rabbi said... life is a banquet, a grand bouffe, and marylin, darling... i just want you to know that i am in the kitchen and i can stand the heat!
speaker3: and i'm going to start this marriage by eating my words. because the hot hors d'oerve of this love story is -- pre-nup primavera!
speaker3: carmine! bring on the pesto!
speaker3: -- this is for you, darling.
speaker3: -- this is for you, darling.
speaker2: brilliant.
speaker1: why is he doing that?
speaker2: brilliant. it's brilliant. he's eating the pre-nup.
speaker3: this is for you, darling!
speaker1: that's -- the most romantic thing i've ever seen -- in my life!

speaker1: i'd like to offer my congratulations. that was a beautiful gesture of howard's. 
speaker2: howard is a beautiful person.
speaker1: yes. he's a diamond in the rough. and i have a feeling that someday soon you'll be taking that diamond and leaving the rough.
speaker2: miles. miles. miles.
speaker1: i am thrilled for you, but tell me this... how'd you get howard to do it? i've addressed enough juries to appreciate the power of suggestion, but it seemed like he thought it was his own idea.
speaker2: it was his idea. it was a gesture of love and trust. be happy for me, miles.
speaker1: well, when this goes south -- promise you'll have dinner with me?
speaker2: have you tried the duck?
speaker1: i figure a couple of months. that's how long it should take for the ink on the settlement to dry.
speaker2: it has bones. be sure to swallow one.
speaker1: although knowing you as i do -- there will be no settlement. this time it will be complete and total annihilation.

speaker1: -- 
speaker2: what --?
speaker1: -- i've heard some -- i've heard some sick things -- in my --
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: oh casey jones was the rounder's name, t'was on the 6:02 that he rode to fame!

speaker1: who is that guy? 
speaker2: rex rexroth, the mini-mall king. getting to be the richest man on the west coast, from what they say.
speaker1: 
speaker3: hup! come all you rounders if you wanna hear...
speaker1: why're they going to muncie?
speaker2: he's thinking of buying indiana.
speaker4: whooosh -- the plane roars away.

speaker1: and of course we shall have to litigate. sentence. paragraph. 
speaker2: a secretary seated by his desk is taking notes.
speaker1: -- naturally the first concern for both parties is the welfare of little wendell junior. nevertheless, we question whether the continuing expenses for his special ed classes are truly justified given the great strides -- wrigley enters.
speaker3: i'm sorry i'm late. i was having lunch with ruth rabinow's assistant. guess what? marylin rexroth is divorced!

speaker1: ...and i hear she's richer than croesus. 
speaker2: ah, but is she richer than mrs. croesus?
speaker1: she could buy and sell you ten times over.
speaker2: she deserves every penny. they pay great athletes a fortune. well, marylin rexroth is an athlete at the peak of her power.
speaker2: get me marylin rexroth doyle.
speaker1: what...?
speaker2: she owes me a meal.
speaker1: i'd stay away from her, miles.
speaker2: i know you would, wrigley. but would kramer?
speaker3: mrs. doyle for you.

speaker1: le veuve clicquot ponsardin, 1982. 
speaker2: thank you. i'll take care of it.
speaker2: to victory.
speaker3: i don't feel victorious miles. i feel betrayed, abandoned and humiliated. i have pictures of him with another woman...
speaker2: more pictures? my marylin. you can open an art gallery.
speaker3: did you invite me here to score some cheap laughs.
speaker2: no. just to comfort you, and appreciate you --
speaker3: you really think i engineered the whole thing. you think the marriage and the divorce was part of some scheme. you came here to celebrate because you think i'm without morality or soul. you -- sound like my mother.
speaker1: should we order?
speaker3: yes, i -- well, i'm not really...
speaker2: not hungry, huh? neither am i. a long pensive moment.

speaker1: miles pulls up to the huge house. 
speaker2: thank you. and good-night.
speaker3: marylin -- she puts a finger to his lips. sadly, miles relinquishes her hand. she exits the car and walks up to the front door. miles watches her go.

speaker1: ...and he asked you if...? 
speaker2: ..if i reckon i could find someone to keel him his wife.
speaker1: who asked you this?
speaker2: dean leonard. da defendant. that guy!
speaker3: along a pointing suitcoated arm.
speaker4: eighteen hunnut billable hours. twelve hunnut'n twenty-one motions tuh void...
speaker4: ...five nunnut'n sixty faw summary judgenents. a hunnut'n twenty-nine thousand four hunnut'n seventeen lunches charged...
speaker4: counseluh? counseluh?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: miles?
speaker1: yes? marylin?
speaker2: you're right about me. i am worthless. i am nothing. i don't deserve to live.
speaker1: marylin? when did i say...?
speaker2: i don't blame them for betraying me. i don't blame rex, or howard or my father. you see, miles, i'm going to tell you something about me. something you may or may not know. i suck!
speaker2: screw you, asswipe!
speaker1: marylin? forgive me but are you -- drunk?
speaker2: a little. you get out of the car. that's right, fuctard. i'm talkin' to you!
speaker1: you shouldn't be driving. where are you?
speaker2: i'm on sunset. near the beverly hills hotel. wanna meet me for a drink in the polo...?
speaker1: i live right near there. the 800 block of maple. come here. marylin -- come here right now before -- just come here.
speaker2: okay. should i stop at starbucks and pick up a blended for --
speaker1: no. don't stop.
speaker2: okay miles.

speaker1: i just cried when i got home. somehow, your disdain for me -- i'm pretty tough miles, but i'm human. all my life people have been ascribing these terrible motives to me. i used to think they were jealous, or they didn't understand, but... i dunno. maybe others see something in me. something i'm not even aware of. anyway, thank you for letting me come here. i guess i was a little drunk. 
speaker1: you have a very nice home, miles. very inviting.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you have wonderful art. i love that lithograph. hockney?
speaker2: yes. i just got that, actually. it was a gift.
speaker1: from a -- girlfriend.
speaker2: no. no. i don't have a... no. it was from a client.
speaker1: no kidding. i'll bet you have some very grateful clients. what'd rex buy you?
speaker2: rex sent me two humidors full of pre- castro cubans.

speaker1: is that you? 
speaker2: me. yes.
speaker1: oh. and that is -- mom?
speaker2: yeah. mom. mom and brother.
speaker1: you look like you were a very sensitive child. you have expressive eyes.
speaker2: hmmm...
speaker1: and your mother was very beautiful. she must be proud of you.
speaker2: she never particularly cared for me.
speaker1: she didn't love you?
speaker2: no. she loved me. she would never not love her son. she just didn't... i wasn't her "type." she said i was a very, colicky baby. you know? difficult. not a good sleeper? didn't eat well? we got off to a bad start, and she never seemed to recoup --
speaker1: she held that against you?
speaker2: apparently she was very disappointed.
speaker1: boy. boy, oh boy.
speaker1: and here i thought my mother was...
speaker2: your mother was.
speaker1: oh right. you met patricia.
speaker1: we're damaged goods.
speaker2: no, we're not!
speaker1: we are, miles. you know i'm right. there's something "off" about you and me miles. and maybe it isn't because of these women -- maybe they were just extremely insightful and recognized our "deficiencies" very early on. maybe...
speaker2: that is mine is a and yours is a psycho. i can't believe you're saying this, marylin! there's nothing wrong with us. we're attractive and charismatic and successful and... i like us.
speaker1: i'm sorry miles. you shouldn't listen to me. i'm sure you have a very fulfilling life. i'd better go. i'm depressing.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: thank you for the coffee. it's very robust.
speaker1: friends?
speaker2: don't go. stay with me for a while.

speaker1: they are in post coital wrap. 
speaker2: i have to say -- i'm speechless. no. i'm never speechless.
speaker3: i'm a little embarrassed. i'm not used to losing control with such -- volume.
speaker2: and i'm not used to -- marylin -- there's something i want to ask you.
speaker3: what is it miles?
speaker2: i want... i want to...
speaker2: i want to be your -- your wife.
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: no... that wasn't right. i want you to be my wife.
speaker3: did you just propose to me?
speaker2: yes. i am. what else could those words mean? i believe we belong together and we can make one another happy. and we should be happy because happiness is better than the alternative which is -- just jump in any old time, marylin. you have more experience at this than i do.
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: yes? yes, you do have more experience?
speaker3: yes, miles. i accept.
speaker2: you do?
speaker3: do you want me to sleep on it?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: do you want to sleep on it?
speaker2: no ma'am. i have been asleep all my life up to this moment. marylin, will you marry me?
speaker3: yes. again.
speaker2: i don't have a ring!
speaker3: i know.
speaker2: i have a watch.
speaker3: i'm happy.

speaker1: i'm happy for you, pal. 
speaker2: thanks, buddy.
speaker1: is she asian?
speaker2: asian? no.
speaker1: well... i'm still...
speaker2: wrigley?
speaker3: miles.
speaker2: kenneth this is my associate, wrigley. wrigley this is my friend, dr. beck.
speaker3: the plastic surgeon! i read about you in la style.
speaker2: do you have it?
speaker1: i have it.
speaker2: you have the pre-nup?
speaker1: no. i have the ring. was i supposed to have a pre-nup?
speaker2: no. you have the ring. wrigley has the pre-nup.
speaker1: oh. i thought maybe -- gee!
speaker4: dr. beck!
speaker1: sarah! how are you?
speaker2: you know each other? of course you do.
speaker5: you're dr. beck? i have an appointment to see you in march. right after i lose the babyweight. which of course, will be after i have the baby...
speaker6: sarah sorkin. ramona barcelona -- this is miles massey.
speaker4: hello miles.
speaker5: congratulations miles.
speaker2: hi. hello. marylin. you know my young associate, wrigley.
speaker6: i do. he was at my divorce and my wedding. what would a marital related event be without wrigley?
speaker3: it has become a tradition, hasn't it?
speaker6: i loved the berry spoons. i didn't have any. thank you.
speaker2: well, wrigley brought something else for you today, darling.
speaker2: this -- is the massey pre-nup.
speaker2: marylin, you're welcome to examine it, but as you know -- it's iron clad.
speaker4: it is. it's famous.
speaker3: i tried to reach ruth, but we couldn't get her.
speaker2: we wanted ruth here for your protection as well --
speaker3: the judge is here. over here, judge munson.
speaker6: wasn't she the judge at my divorce hearing?
speaker2: yes. short notice you know, but i think there's nice closure to it. hello judge muson. a pleasure as always.
speaker7: what's up with you two.
speaker2: we're getting married.
speaker7: what's the gag?
speaker2: a gag? no.
speaker6: excuse me, judge muson.
speaker8: you got it, patty.
speaker6: you brought a pre-nup to our wedding?
speaker2: yes. it's for your protection, sweetheart. you're the one with the -- the...
speaker3: -- the coin?
speaker6: miles. i don't want to sign this. i want this marriage to be different. okay. judge munsen and wrigley are here, but other than that...
speaker8: should i go out for a smoke?
speaker2: no. judge -- just a sec. but marylin, if we sign it, i can't hope to benefit from the marriage.
speaker6: oh miles!
speaker2: what i mean is, your wealth is completely protected.
speaker6: miles. listen to me. you are about to become my husband. i don't want to be protected from you. i want to be protected for you.
speaker3: ohhh...
speaker2: but?
speaker6: i want this to be a marriage based on love, trust and community property. that's all i've ever wanted.
speaker4: but marylin, without this, you're completely exposed.
speaker6: i want to be exposed.
speaker5: you're vulnerable.
speaker6: it's about time.
speaker8: you're a sitting duck.
speaker6: quack.
speaker7: do you, miles herbert massey of massey meyerson take marylin hamilton-rexroth- doyle?
speaker6: yes.
speaker7: "doyle", to be your lawful wedded wife to --
speaker2: i do, yah i do, uh huh --
speaker7: let me finish!
speaker7: -- haven't you ever been married before?
speaker7: -- to have and hold, to love and to cherish, till death do you part?
speaker2: -- i do.
speaker7: and do you, marylin hamilton-rexroth doyle, take miles herbert massey of massey meyerson, to be your lawful wedded husband, to have and to hold, to love and to cherish, till death do you part?
speaker6: i do.
speaker7: i now pronounce you man and wife.

speaker1: i have mrs. massey on line one for you. 
speaker2: mom...?

speaker1: for the first time in my life, i stand before you naked... vulnerable... and in love. love. a word matrimonial lawyers shy away from. ironic isn't it -- that i have been frightened of this emotion which is, in a sense, the seed of my livelihood. but today, i am here to tell you: love should cause us no fear. love should cause us no shame. love... is good. let me ask you a question. when our clients come to us confused, angry, hurting because their flame of love is fluttering and threatens to die -- should we seek to extinguish that flame, so that we can sift through the smoldering wreckage for our paltry reward? or should we seek to fan this precious flame -- this most precious flame -- back to loving, roaring life? 
speaker2: extinguish?
speaker1: should we counsel fear -- or trust? should we seek to destroy -- or to build? should we meet our clients' problems with cynicism -- or with love?
speaker1: kramer?
speaker3: build?
speaker1: the decision of course, is each of ours. for my part, i have made the leap of love, and there is no going back --

speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm squishing you. i'll move to the... 
speaker2: no. stay. i want you close to me. this couch is wrong. it's not a "married couch."
speaker1: honey, i could sit...
speaker2: in fact, this is not a married house -- it's a bachelor pad.
speaker1: hardly. you have six bedrooms
speaker2: i know. but i've converted most of them into ridiculous "guy" rooms -- a billiard room, a card room, a gym -- honey, want you to go out, as soon as you feel up to it -- and buy married things. woman things. personalize it. marylinize it. make this your house.
speaker2: here's my card. spend as much as you want. we get mileage.
speaker1: well, i suppose i could "girly" it up for you with a little fortuny, and some passementerie --
speaker2: good. are those foods?
speaker1: fabric and fringe.
speaker2: exactly. and then -- maybe -- not right away -- there's a room right off the bedroom -- it would be perfect for a nursery. it's a walk in humidor right now -- but if i took out the refrigeration unit --
speaker1: miles.
speaker2: i think a nursery should be right off the master suite. my parents put mine in the guest house. apparently they did have a fisher price intercom, but my mother turned it off when i was seven months old because i was so -- she stops him with a kiss.
speaker2: you want children, don't you?
speaker3: you said 'yes' didn't you?
speaker1: i said yes.
speaker1: is this ming?
speaker4: it's not ming. it's tong.
speaker3: is tong older than ming?
speaker1: i think ming is older than tong. what is this?
speaker5: that is a chinese prayer bowl. it's chen dynasty.
speaker1: ok. i'll take it.
speaker1: i can't do this anymore. let's get some lunch.
speaker4: what about rugs? i thought we were stopping at mansour?
speaker1: right.
speaker5: and will this be check or --?
speaker5: very good, mrs. massey. he trots off with the card.
speaker1: well. he said to "make the house mine."
speaker3: oh boy. if he only knew.
speaker1: yeah. i guess. you know --
speaker4: what?
speaker1: he's not what i expected. he's very -- he's so -- happy.
speaker4: but you're going through with it?
speaker1: yes, yes, it's just -- you know i've never been the first wife. rex was married before me.
speaker4: so what?
speaker1: miles is different. he's still so idealistic.
speaker4: well, that's about to change big time.
speaker1: he has no cynicism or anger. for once i'm not the repository of rage at some other woman.
speaker4: soon, you'll have your own rage!
speaker1: i guess.

speaker1: wait. i know you. 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: you're miles massey! you probably don't recognize me. the drugs made me put on weight and grow facial hair.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: you ruined my life you gimme those.
speaker1: but my brother got you. he got you, you slimeball.
speaker3: emily!
speaker2: what are you... is she yours?
speaker1: howard doyle is my brother? you know my brother, howard doyle. you do know my brother, don't you?
speaker3: i'm sorry, sir. emily. give the man back.
speaker2: yes, i know howard doyle.
speaker1: he tricked you. with a phony wife and a fake pre-nup. howard doyle. he got you. you married marylin, didn't you? you thought she had money. ha ha ha. howard doyle made you think that because of what you did to me. and to marylin rexroth. yeah. i heard all about it. my brother howard doyle got you. neener neener neener.

speaker1: he divorced his wife -- he married marylin -- he divorced marylin -- and he -- remarried his wife? what kind of sick -- 
speaker2: marylin was friends with howard and amanda doyle. they don't like the way you operate. they helped her.
speaker1: he never ate the pre-nup, did he!
speaker2: i have no idea what howard doyle eats. i'm not a dietician.
speaker1: did marylin end up with money?
speaker2: she's your wife. why don't you ask her? anyway, i assume she signed the highly over rated massey pre-nup.
speaker1: i don't have a pre-nup
speaker2: ...the fault, dear brutus, is not in our stars...
speaker1: don't give me that crap. that's my crap.
speaker2: and it's good!
speaker1: i'll have you suspended. i'll have you disbarred.
speaker2: don't threaten me, miles. i did nothing illegal.
speaker1: ...why did she do it, ruth? why?
speaker2: that's attorney client privilege. sorry, miles. but as a great and clever man once said, what's good for the goose --
speaker3: hi.
speaker1: hello marylin.
speaker3: i have a surprise for you.
speaker1: i bet.
speaker3: ta da.
speaker3: you don't like it?
speaker3: you don't like me?
speaker1: i love you. i want to have your baby.
speaker3: what's wrong miles? did i spend too much?
speaker3: miles. i have a very good relationship with all the salesmen. i can return everything.
speaker1: can you marylin? can you return the trust? can you return the hopes? the dreams? can you just...

speaker1: miles? you're scaring me. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, darling. i love it. it's chic and timeless and elegant and eclectic and. it's you, marylin. it is you.
speaker1: but ruth -- things have changed -- yes -- yes i understand. but you see -- i couldn't file, did i? and maybe i wasn't going to file. maybe -- maybe ruth -- yes. okay.

speaker1: how far would this gun have to be in order to inflict a wound without leaving powder burns on the scalp. 
speaker2: approximately three feet.
speaker1: and how could mrs. medrano shoot herself in the back of the head from a distance of three feet?
speaker3: really long arms?
speaker4: they won't get a conviction. the husband called it in as a suicide. the forensic guys weren't thinking murder. i'm sure some of the evidence was compromised.
speaker3: it's your move, miles.
speaker4: i already made my move, kenneth.

speaker1: vishu! knock it off. that hurts. 
speaker2: breathe through it.
speaker2: that's good, marylin.
speaker3: i don't even know where he is. he looked so devastated. if i could just talk to him for a few minutes.

speaker1: was that the bell? 
speaker2: it sounded like a bell.
speaker1: i'll be right back.

speaker1: yes? can i help you? 
speaker2: marylin hamilton rexroth doyle massey?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: we have a warrant for your arrest.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: you can go now, mrs. massey. someone made bail. 
speaker2: forgery and fraud?
speaker3: you used his credit card.
speaker2: he told me to -- he said he wanted me to --
speaker3: quite a little shopping spree. how do you spend six figures in less than six hours? oh, never mind i've seen it before. i've seen everything.
speaker2: do you think he set me up? do you think that was his intention?
speaker3: like i know his intention? or yours for that matter? i should join sam. i'm too old for this
speaker2: he never even asked. he just assumed --
speaker3: he was right, wasn't he?
speaker2: so. now what?
speaker3: now? well, marylin, now you cut a deal or find out how jean harris made it work for her.
speaker4: well. well. well. look who made bail!
speaker2: may i come in?
speaker4: i don't know. maybe i should grab my mace. i'm a civil attorney. i have little experience with "the criminal mind."
speaker2: i'd just like to pick up a few of my things
speaker4: i don't believe you have "things."
speaker2: on the contrary. we're married and we have no pre-nup, so a case could be made that everything in here is mine.
speaker2: comfy!
speaker4: what do you want?
speaker2: i want to nail you ass.
speaker4: are you threatening me, because i'm sure that's a violation of the terms of your bail.
speaker2: i'm reporting you to the irs.
speaker4: the irs? they owe me. i'm expecting a refund.
speaker4: i'm clean with the irs. i've reported every dollar i've ever made. try again, girlfriend.
speaker2: i'm not talking about dollars, studmuffin. i'm talking about -- she opens a humidor and takes out a cigar.

speaker1: got a light? 
speaker2: what kind of "stuff?"
speaker3: arty farty stuff. lithographs and pre castro cubans. watches and mileage on private jets. stuff, miles. stuff you get from grateful clients.
speaker2: those are gifts.
speaker3: salary. unreported income. by the way, what time is it on bellagio road?
speaker2: you can't prove anything.
speaker3: i don't have to. that's what the irs guys do. and they do it with great zeal. see, they work at these tortuous civil service jobs, and when five hundred dollar an hour boys like you take their trade out in luxury goodies, these saps feel.. well, they feel like saps. and they feel bitter and they feel vengeful and they feel wrath. what is this? a romeo and julieta?
speaker2: you're out of your league, marylin. rexroth was a primate. i'm a professional.
speaker3: i know. so am i, right? and so is agent wilson of the internal revenue service. he's a dedicated, underpaid graduate of southwestern university -- very tenacious, and never more so than when he's dealing with an unscrupulous colleague. i think it's only fair to warn you: i'm going to file an action, miles. and after a decent interval i plan to have ruth seek an injunction that will forbid your approach within 500 feet of my house.
speaker2: meaning my house.
speaker3: i believe the residence will be part of the settlement.
speaker2: did our marriage ever mean anything to you?
speaker3: drop the bogus forgery charge and i'll forget about your generous friends slash clients.
speaker2: that's blackmail.
speaker3: that's marriage.
speaker3: you'll always be my favorite husband.
speaker2: pity you can't be here. you'd enjoy this.

speaker1: this woman has humbled, shamed and disgrazed the entire foim. 
speaker2: yes herb,
speaker1: counseluh, this foim deals in powuh. this foim deals in p'seption. this foim cannot prospuh... nor long endowwa. if it is p'seeved as dancin' to the music..
speaker1: -- of the hoidy-goidy.
speaker2: i understand herb... i just... for the first time in my career -- i don't know what to do. i'm a patsy. a sitting duck. i'm lost.
speaker1: lost! i'll tell you what you can do, you can --
speaker1: -- leave us.
speaker1: -- you can act like a man. let me tell you sumpn, smart guy. you tawt you had it all figgud out. trust. marriage. all ya love love love. well now you lissean me. i'm gonna talk to you about the

speaker1: -- we soive the law! we honuh the law! we make our bread and buttuh by the law! and sometimes, counseluh, we obey the law -- he pauses to let this sink in. 
speaker1: -- but conseluh -- this is not one a those times.
speaker2: close on nikki rosen - a court tv anchor
speaker3: we are interrupting our scheduled weekend coverage because we have just received word there is a verdict in the kentucky v leonard case. we now join the case -- live.

speaker1: of the charges of murder in the first degree, we the jury find the defendant -- not guilty. 
speaker2: nikki speaks to her guest host.
speaker3: he got away with it.
speaker4: simpson started a trend.

speaker1: ...dumbarton? 
speaker2: i am here representing mr. dumbarton, on a... matter of some delicacy.
speaker1: who's the pigeon?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: who do you want me to kill?
speaker2: well -- i, uh, that is to say mr. dumbarton -- would like you to uh, neutralize a, uh, business associate by the name of marylin rexroth doyle massey uh dumbart -- uh, massey.
speaker1: is that... one person?
speaker2: here's her picture...
speaker2: ...and the address where she's staying. it's the residence of a mr. massey. uh, dumbarton. massey. uh, it's not mr. dumbarton's house. though he's not involved. and because of an impending legal action this needs to happen within a certain... time frame. uh... on an expedited basis.
speaker1: you're in a rush.
speaker2: mr. dumbarton is, yes.
speaker2: she won't suffer, will she?
speaker1: ...not unless you pay extra.

speaker1: i've been working on the railroad -- 
speaker2: all the livelong day!
speaker1: i've been working on the railroad
speaker2: just to pass the time away!
speaker1: can'tcha hear the whistle... the whistle... awwwwwww. rex hunches over, clutching his left arm.
speaker1: awwwwwww --
speaker3: -- whatsa matter, rexie?

speaker1: hello. yes, he's here. just a minute -- 
speaker2: miles. it's for you.
speaker3: hello. yes -- what?! yes -- i see --
speaker3: my
speaker2: what?
speaker3: that was marvin untermeyer.
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: he was rex rexroth's personal attorney.
speaker2: what do you mean, was.
speaker3: rex just had a massive coronary. in the middle of a business meeting. he's dead.
speaker2: i'm sorry to hear that. but you weren't close, were you?
speaker3: marvin says that rex's will is four years old. he never redrafted it.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: everything goes to marylin.
speaker3: she's rich. we're still married. we have no pre-nup.
speaker2: so, that's good, right?

speaker1: this is joe. wuddya need? 
speaker2: joe. this is mr. uh... friend of -- we met. this is to instruct you it's no go! do you understand me?! no go on marylin rexroth doyle -- no go.
speaker3: who was that?
speaker2: that was -- oh, what if he's on his way over there?
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: marylin! what have i done?
speaker3: i don't know, but don't call me marylin.

speaker1: marylin? 
speaker2: miles? miles! where have you been? i've been trying to get in touch.
speaker1: you have to leave the house immediately!
speaker2: i will, miles. i will leave. but miles --
speaker1: no buts. now. out.
speaker2: just listen to me. i'm sorry, miles. it's true that my initial intention was to...
speaker1: please! leave the house.
speaker2: i fell in love miles.
speaker1: so did i. now pack up a few basics and --
speaker2: you do? you do love me?
speaker3: marylin hangs up the phone.
speaker2: whoever sent you, i'll pay double.
speaker4: mr. dumbarton.
speaker2: is this mr. dumbarton?
speaker4: no...
speaker4: that's his lawyer.
speaker2: triple!
speaker4: who's the pigeon?

speaker1: joe! thank you're in time. you're not in time. i'm in time. thank i'm in time. 
speaker1: it's a no go! get it? no one any the wiser. okay! he makes a cow-herding motion with his hands.
speaker1: you can go home now! goodbye! thanks so much!
speaker1: no no! no contract! it's all over.
speaker2: it's a no go, joe.
speaker1: marylin!
speaker2: it's okay joe.
speaker1: wait! he works for you?
speaker2: now. but first, he worked for you.
speaker1: you were going to have this thug...?
speaker2: wait just a second there. you sent him here. you unearthed this pestilence.
speaker3: you're calling me a pestilence? that's a hoot!
speaker2: i'm sorry. that was unkind and -- but, we changed our minds. did you really mean what you said on the phone. it wasn't because you found out about rex?
speaker1: nonono. marylin -- i'm your husband. i'd be entitled to rex's money. no matter what happened to you.
speaker2: that's true.
speaker3: lemme tell you something. you are the pestilence. i'm the exterminator.
speaker2: oh joe, be happy for us. i'll pay you the twenty thousand.
speaker1: it was fifty for you.
speaker3: that's cause you're a lawyer. i gave her the lawyer discount. but i shouldn't of. cause you're a whore. a who worships the dollar.
speaker2: well, actually, all whores worship the dollar, if you want to get technical.
speaker3: shut up. i was a lawyer. just like you. and my clients? whores just like you.
speaker1: were you with a firm?
speaker3: kaplan.
speaker1: kaplan? i know kaplan. wait. you're joe gittelson? i knew you looked -- you were great -- we studied you.
speaker3: twenty years in "matrimonial law" and it made me sick. i broke up homes and families, never givin' it a second thought. till one day. i had an epiphany. you know what that is? came with a stigmata if you can believe that! i said to myself -- joe -- everyone you see wants blood. everyone wants their ex's dead. so why jerk around with rest. you wanna best serve your clients? kill em.
speaker1: marylin. run. i'll distract him.
speaker2: i'm not leaving you. i took self defense
speaker1: joe!
speaker1: we told him it was no go...

speaker1: alright. 
speaker2: ruth.
speaker3: hello marylin.
speaker4: hello miles.
speaker3: hard to believe this is the way it will end up for us.
speaker4: it's not something i wanted either.
speaker3: but then -- i guess -- something inside me died when i realized that you'd hired a goon to kill me.
speaker4: yes. i know. it's exactly how i felt when i realized you'd hired the goon to kill...
speaker1: now you both wait a minute. nobody hired anyone to kill anyone.
speaker2: hear, hear.
speaker2: apparently, from what i can gather, a burglar broke into your house -- became despondent over his lifestyle and shot himself.
speaker3: where does that leave us?
speaker1: we've outlined a settlement... she pushes a piece of paper across the table.
speaker1: we think it's more than generous.
speaker2: my client is prepared to consider a reconciliation.
speaker4: how could i trust you, after... after all of this.
speaker3: you wounded me first, marylin.
speaker4: your forgetting rex rexroth?
speaker3: you're forgetting howard doyle?
speaker4: forgery? fraud?
speaker3: income tax evasion?
speaker4: murder?
speaker3: murder!
speaker4: i don't see how we can ever find our way back from...
speaker3: you know... there's nothing in the massey pre-nup that says it can't be executed after the parties wed.
speaker1: it's the massey pre-nup -- marylin rips the paper in half.
speaker1: o-kay. i'm going back to the office wrigley sobs openly.
speaker1: come on wrigley, i'll buy you a drink and an anti depressant.
speaker2: no one will ever love me that way.
speaker1: not if you're lucky. no. miles rises slowly to his feet.
speaker3: let's go home.

speaker1: sorry, mr. massey. thought you cleared that out. 
speaker2: you know, man... those things'll kill ya. i know all you old boomer potheads like em. they're illegal, and you get to put em in fancy boxes -- but -- man! it's still tobacco.
speaker3: you know, sweets, he's right.
speaker4: pre-castro.
speaker3: fine. they were created during a dictatorship. what if something happened to you? what would i tell little gus when he asked "what was my daddy like?"
speaker4: here, buddy. these are for you.
speaker1: great. now i can die.
speaker4: well. you'd say "they devoted a whole semester at harvard to your dad. but your mom was the one that ever only nailed his ass."
speaker3: sweet.
speaker4: i thought so.

