speaker1: hello? can you hear me? can you speak? 
speaker2: ...eyes...
speaker1: what? can you speak up?
speaker2: ...her...eyes...

speaker1: sir, what is the nature of your emergency? 
speaker1: sir? are you injured? do you need medical attention?

speaker1: when i found my wife and child dead, my little girl's eyes were open. the last thing she saw of this earth were the faces of the men who took her life. can you understand that? 
speaker2: yes. yes, i can.
speaker1: can you? really? you?
speaker3: mr. clyde. i don't see this helping.
speaker1: no? you married? children?
speaker3: divorced. i have a son and daughter.
speaker1: my daughter was ten. i married late in life.

speaker1: you, mr. price? married? kids? 
speaker2: i've seen the crime scene photos, mr. clyde. many times. they're horrifying. but they don't alter the facts of the case.

speaker1: facts? those men are guilty. both of them. you know they are. 
speaker2: this isn't about what we know. it's about what we can prove in court.
speaker3: things have gone against us. tainted crime scene, evidence thrown out...
speaker1: maybe you just haven't tried hard enough.
speaker2: look. we've had only one real break in this case. the fact that one has decided to testify against the other
speaker1: in return for immunity. so he gets away with it.
speaker3: the other man doesn't. he'll go down for the crime. that has to count for something.
speaker1: yes. it counts for half. don't reward one of the men who murdered my family. please.
speaker2: mr. clyde. i can't claim to know what it's like to be in your position. losing your wife and child. but please try to grasp how limited our options are. this is how the justice system works.
speaker1: ah. i see my mistake. i came for justice. instead i got a system.

speaker1: sorry. my fault. 
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker2: you're due upstairs in three minutes!
speaker3: thank you, voice of doom.
speaker3: we doing the right thing?
speaker3: it's your office.
speaker4: it's your decision.
speaker3: what do you think?
speaker5: what are you asking her for? she's just an intern.
speaker2: i am just an intern.

speaker1: you were top of your class at yale, don't give me that 
speaker2: young lady. someday you might have our jobs. you know the issues of the case before the court. speak.
speaker3: okay. um. you can take both men to trial, spend a year and millions of taxpayer dollars, and probably lose. or you can cut a deal and at least put one of the men who did the crime on death row. it's a no-brainer. you make the deal.
speaker4: duh. they trade a look. cantrell glances to sarah.
speaker2: when the day comes that you argue a real case in court, you might refrain from summing up with "duh."
speaker3: i'll avoid that.

speaker1: the agreement has been vetted by both sides? satisfactory to all? 
speaker2: yes, your honor. defense approves.
speaker3: state also approves, your honor.
speaker4: clarence darby. this document guarantees that you will provide testimony against rupert ames in the matter of which you were both accused. in return, you will be

speaker1: shielded from further prosecution for those capital crimes. but you will plead guilty to the lesser charge of breaking and entering. 
speaker2: you'll do a maximum of five years. with good behavior, you could be out in three.
speaker3: that also depends on your testimony and the level of your cooperation.
speaker4: your honor need not worry on my account. i assure the court that i am aware of the opportunity i've been given. and i am deeply grateful to all concerned.
speaker4: if i may. it has come to my attention that rupert ames has been spreading lies about me to the tabloid press. about certain alleged activities of which i have no knowledge. sexual and otherwise. libel and slander...yes?
speaker1: you can always sue him.
speaker4: well, no matter. my tongue will wag in court, under oath. his tongue will wag in hell.
speaker4: he'll get the chair?
speaker1: we don't do chair. we do needle.

speaker1: whoa, jonas, take my elbow. 
speaker2: i'm not blind. yet. i'll do it.
speaker1: you're on stairs. at least let me take the leash so the dog doesn't pull you down.
speaker2: no. she needs to imprint on me. not you, not somebody else.
speaker2: that's the whole point of this phase. she needs to get the idea that she and i are partners. then the real training can begin. unless you wanna lead me around the rest of my life.
speaker1: i'll pass.

speaker1: ...it was a burglary gone wrong. we thought the house was empty. rupert found the woman and child at home and went crazy. i was stoned and in fear of my own life, so i fled... 
speaker2: bill! you let all your clients give testimony on the courthouse steps?
speaker3: hellooo, kettle to pot. since when do you shy away from publicity?
speaker4: since everything in this case has gone sideways so far. tell your boy to save it for the courtroom.

speaker1: he's your boy too now. you tell him. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: 
speaker3: fuckface.
speaker4: ...and may i say for the record how very sorry i am that i failed to prevent rupert ames from committing those terrible crimes...
speaker2: you good here?
speaker3: long as nobody bumps into me.
speaker4: ...been given a chance to put the drugs and foul living behind me. to atone for my past failings and weakness of character. it is a gift given me by grace...
speaker4: ...and the grace and wisdom of this court. i cannot thank you enough, sir. i cannot.

speaker1: day? 
speaker2: day. better now. how's she doing?
speaker1: fine. she drove me a little crazy today.
speaker2: she was busy?
speaker1: in overdrive. here. feel.
speaker1: of course she stops kicking the moment you get home.

speaker1: i had to say some things to a man today i didn't want to say. and i did something i didn't want to do. 
speaker2: you didn't lie to him. or him. or shine him on.
speaker1: none of those things.
speaker2: so you had your reasons. you did what you had to. it's not your fault the world
speaker1: you in there. listen up. your mother just said the world you may wanna rethink this whole thing. my advice? if you're asking? just stay in there. i promise you, nothing will ever make as much sense as it does right now...
speaker2: what is wrong with you?
speaker1: ...plus there's you don't need to know about. rap. internet porn.
speaker2: did someone drop you on your head? seriously. i have swollen ankles and all i do is pee. that baby's coming out.
speaker1: okay. i'm sure you heard that. then again there are the beatles. 70's funk. louie. ella. be a shame to miss those. all right, kid. bring it on. but when you're old enough for the world to disappoint you, i hope you won't blame your old man for bringing you into this mess. give me that at least.

speaker1: dad? 
speaker2: huh? wha--?
speaker1: you know what it is?
speaker2: what?

speaker1: why can't you be here? 
speaker2: it's a work thing. grownup stuff.

speaker1: but it's... 
speaker2: i believe we've established that. i let go, you'll stop reminding me? we'll celebrate this weekend. tonight is all about your friends. knock yourselves out, don't give mom any grief. i'll try to be home in time to tuck you in, okay?
speaker1: okay. but what are you doing tonight that is more important than...
speaker1: ...my birthdaaaaay.
speaker3: something he'd get out of if he could. here. take lunch. grab backpack. we go.
speaker2: nice evasion. thanks.

speaker1: how long she have to wear this stupid thing? 
speaker2: till the stitches heal. week or two.
speaker1: poor honey. doesn't it? but you're very pretty. yes, you are.
speaker3: there they are. like clockwork.

speaker1: rupert ames. do you have anything to say? 
speaker2: i'm here. clarence darby ain't. and that ain't right. 'cause that man is evil, ain't no other way to say it. all them things he done, and him turn witness against me for it.
speaker2: i did wrong too. i guess i'll pay up. but it was always him sayin' jump and how high, and i just went along. now he's killin' me and he got you people to do it. and that's a shame. a shame. and... ...and i guess that's all.

speaker1: ah...ah...ah! 
speaker1: ah--ah--jesus, don't that hurt!

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: what's going on? nick?
speaker2: nick, it, what?
speaker3: i don't know!

speaker1: we're still trying to sort through this thing. 
speaker2: gentlemen, we face a terrible shitstorm of scrutiny in the days to come. we need answers. start with what we know.
speaker1: lethal injection is a series of drugs given in a specific order. somebody had to have replaced one or more of those ingredients with something else. industrial solvent? acid?
speaker3: let's not guess, let forensics do its job.

speaker1: how could the chemicals be switched? 
speaker2: i'll ask because somebody has to. is there any chance, no matter how remote, that this was an accident? a mix-up? weird happens?
speaker3: show them. the bad part.

speaker1: some kind of bypass on the phone lines. 
speaker1: twenty minutes before the execution, the prison stopped receiving incoming calls and emails. cell service went dark too. signal was probably jammed.
speaker2: the bad part. i was just on with the governor's office. he commuted rupert ames' sentence. they were trying to call us to stop the execution. they couldn't get through.
speaker1: the governor's incoming number triggered this device and shut out any further calls.
speaker3: oh, me. me.

speaker1: one more thing. 
speaker1: this mean anything to you?

speaker1: clarence darby. that's what he said when he agreed to testify against the man we executed tonight. 
speaker2: "his tongue will wag in hell." those very words? it was ten years ago.
speaker3: i remember it too. some things stick in your head.
speaker1: check the court transcripts, they're public record.
speaker4: i know this prick. i'm pretty sure he's one of our c.i.s.
speaker2: you think, or you know?

speaker1: that's not the name he uses now. but i'm pretty sure he's one of bernstein's informants. 
speaker2: okay, raise bernstein, i want everything he's got, including an address. we roll with tactical.
speaker3: how about i ride-along? give you a fast, accurate id on this guy?
speaker4: is that necessary?
speaker3: you said yourself we should move fast. this thing'll be all over the morning news cycle. we'd all look a lot better if we have the right man in custody by then.

speaker1: that's him. "wayne dunlap." 
speaker2: is that clarence darby?
speaker3: i think so. hard to tell.

speaker1: look at this. no wonder bernstein loves him. 
speaker2: we scored a lot of good intel off this through the years. almost a shame to bag the guy.
speaker3: a shame?
speaker2: he's helped us put a lot of bad people behind bars. look. arrests, convictions...
speaker3: i can read a c.i. profile. what i see is an dirty up to his ears in the drug trade. so you cops look the other way? he gets a free pass as long as he keeps feeding you convictions?
speaker1: isn't that what you did ten years ago? give this guy a free pass in return for a conviction? maybe we played this to our advantage on the street, but you're the one who put him there. so, no offense, but you might wanna go yourself a little.

speaker1: almost. almost. 
speaker2: this makes you soft, baby.
speaker1: thank you...for stating the obvious...you...bitch...
speaker3: ...rumors the execution did not go well due to technical flaws, but that has yet to be confirmed...
speaker1: "did not go well." way to go, rupert.
speaker2: you know that guy?
speaker1: knew. past tense.
speaker4: wayne?
speaker1: depends. who's this?
speaker4: somebody who doesn't want to see you in jail. look out your window. argue later. do it now.
speaker5: all cop. racing this way. no lights, no sirens.
speaker1: lowers the binoculars, stunned.

speaker1: there's a world of coming your way. i'd get out the back. now. 
speaker2: what?
speaker2: are those cops?

speaker1: ditch the gun. wipe the prints. 
speaker2: kiss my ass.
speaker1: i heard six shots. revolver? bring extra ammo?
speaker1: you shot at cops. that's attempted murder if they find the gun on you. you're in deep enough without that.
speaker1: you'll need my help getting out.
speaker2: what'll it cost me?
speaker1: we'll discuss terms later. go south, across 10th. past the el tracks.
speaker2: what's there?
speaker1: a cop. take his ride, he won't give you any trouble.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker1: 'cause i tasered his ass. you gonna keep asking questions?

speaker1: drive. 
speaker1: drive, fucker! i'll put your brains on the dash!
speaker2: don't shoot! don't hurt me, okay?
speaker1: depends on you. go.

speaker1: ...air unit three...see no sign of suspect...think we lost him... 
speaker2: keep sweeping the area, unit three. go house-to-house. check everything. garages, dumpsters, storm drains...

speaker1: you gotta be kidding me. 
speaker1: how could we lose him?

speaker1: in the ditch. 
speaker2: ...please...don't kill me...
speaker1: knees. let's go.
speaker2: i'll never see my wife and little girl again. i'll never see them.
speaker1: it's up.
speaker1: this my guardian angel? hello?
speaker2: i see you got out okay.
speaker2: you know why i'll never see my wife and daughter again?
speaker3: you took them from me.

speaker1: can't speak? 
speaker1: tetrototoxin. fascinating stuff. it paralyzes you, but leaves all other neurological functions intact.

speaker1: that means you can't move. or talk. but you can see. hear. feel. that last one's important. feel. you can feel everything. got some other items here. drugs to revive you in case you pass out. stuff like that. 
speaker1: wearing off a little. no worries.
speaker1: oh. these. don't want you bleeding out. this will take a while.
speaker1: teeth. balls. fingers. maybe toes. eyelids. in case you insist on shutting your eyes.
speaker1: earlier on the phone? i said i'd get you out? you asked me what it would cost? well.

speaker1: we'll start with an arm and a leg. go from there. 
speaker1: i've been waiting to say that line for years. but it wasn't very funny, was it? no. played much better in my head. maybe it's my delivery.

speaker1: gosh. my heart's beating. you? 
speaker2: ...and the shrieking saw fades...

speaker1: ...and while we were singing karaoke, ashley was all dancing around and jumping up and down and suddenly she gets this look on her face... 
speaker2: i saw it coming.
speaker1: ...and suddenly she just went barf. total puke moment. and we were all like, ewwww gross! it was so funny...
speaker2: funny for her. i cleaned it up.
speaker3: i had my "ewwww gross" moment last night too.
speaker2: hey. i had a house full of shrieking ten year-old girls.
speaker3: hey. i saw a guy's veins dissolve.
speaker2: honey. it's not a competition. okay, you win.

speaker1: ...so tara says that's what you get for eating too much cake and that almost made ashley puke again... 
speaker2: delivery.
speaker1: i'll get it!
speaker3: oh, we've gone national.

speaker1: ...the suspect who tasered you last night...was it the same person who let you out of the trunk this morning? 
speaker2: i never saw a face...either time...he wore a thing, a face shield...

speaker1: sergeant! sergeant! 
speaker2: come quick! you gotta see this!

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker2: oh my

speaker1: benson clyde. you have the right to remain silent... 
speaker1: ...understand your rights as i have explained them?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: check this out.

speaker1: counselor. 
speaker2: mr. clyde.
speaker1: why so formal? we go way back. call me benson. or ben.
speaker2: well. i'm here. so?
speaker1: so. maybe you can explain what this is all about.
speaker2: i think that's obvious.
speaker3: you murdered two people. rupert ames and clarence darby.
speaker1: detective...?
speaker3: dunnigan.
speaker1: dunnigan. i thought i'd made it clear i would only speak to the gentleman across the table from me.
speaker2: you murdered two people. rupert ames and clarence darby.

speaker1: darby? i knew about ames, of course. i've been following the news about his horribly botched execution. but darby too? quite a coincidence. 
speaker2: cut the we know you did it. save everybody a lot of time and trouble and just confess.
speaker1: are you going to continue to insist on being part of this conversation?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: fine. far be it from me to be rude.
speaker3: clarence darby was found on your property. old abandoned shed?
speaker1: i didn't know i had one. it's 150 acres, uncultivated. the other day i found a creek i never knew i had. hunters trespass all the time. you going to try to pin the dead deer on me too?

speaker1: i don't believe this guy. 
speaker2: that man is frosty.

speaker1: how about video of you dismembering darby while he was still alive? 
speaker2: that's odd. see, if i were to do such a thing, i'd probably wear something so i couldn't be identified. some kind of mask maybe. but you say it's actually me on the video? did the camera capture my good side?
speaker1: you sick you sent it to my house! my daughter saw that video! it traumatized her! she couldn't stop sobbing!
speaker3: whoa-whoa, nick, ease off!
speaker2: no trouble here, detective, we're fine. thank you, though.
speaker2: your daughter is, what, ten now? that's a wonderful age. my daughter was always so busy at that age, so interested, so into everything. jumping around. i called her "bean," she jumped around so much.
speaker2: i am sorry, nick, that your daughter experienced that. you're right. that video should not have arrived that way. the person who sent it should have thought twice.
speaker3: okay, enough.

speaker1: unless there's hard evidence tying me to these crimes -- forensic or otherwise -- why am i here? why are we having this conversation? 
speaker2: we know you did it.
speaker1: it's not about what you know. it's about what you can prove in court. your words. like when you called it a justice system. you know the thing about a system, nick? any system can be played.
speaker2: you think you can play us? you gonna take me on?
speaker1: clarence darby did. and i'm much smarter than he was. or you.
speaker2: i'm gonna bury you, fucker!
speaker1: that's it, that's what i want! that fire in the belly! that's what i wanted ten years ago! do it, nick!
speaker3: sit down! sit the down!
speaker1: or. set me free.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: did i stutter? make your case. or. shake my hand on the courthouse steps and send me on my way. i'll even make it easy on you. i will confess, how's that?

speaker1: you're gonna confess. 
speaker2: let's start tomorrow after a good night's sleep. we'll all be fresh and rested.
speaker3: ten years he's been planning this? patient people make me nervous.
speaker4: is he serious about confessing? what's his deal, is he crazy?
speaker1: confession or not, we're gonna nail him on two counts of first-degree.
speaker5: agreed, but softly. nothing hard- ass, no grand-standing. kid gloves.
speaker1: kid gloves? he's a psycho with a power saw.
speaker5: depending on who's writing the headline, he's a grieving husband and father who got revenge on the men who murdered his wife and child. public sympathy is to be respected and feared. this could blow up in our faces if we're not careful. we can't look like we're off or have an ax to grind. are we off? do we have an ax to grind?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: then stop acting like it. 
speaker2: okay. he got under my skin a little.

speaker1: ...background check's gotta be thorough, i want to know everything there is to know about this son of a get all the adas on it, tell 'em i better not see them sitting around on their or texting their pals... 
speaker2: how about outside help? that p.i.
speaker1: yeah, he was good. and hanson's always reliable. but try to limit their hours, okay?
speaker3: well, hello there beauty!
speaker2: hey kell! hey emma, how's my dynamo?
speaker4: hi, sarah!
speaker3: we haven't seen you in so long it's ridiculous. when are you gonna come by for a visit?
speaker2: who needs a life, right? talk to your husband, maybe he'll give us a day off one of these years.
speaker3: soon, huh? seriously, we miss you.

speaker1: ...and finds the bed empty. sheets thrown back. 
speaker2: 
speaker2: i saw her bed empty. scared the out of me. don't know why.
speaker3: she had a bad dream. she wanted to sleep with us tonight.
speaker2: 
speaker4: daddy...?
speaker4: i had a nightmare. that man.
speaker2: i know. shhh. we're all good. you're safe. nobody's gonna hurt you.
speaker3: especially not that man. daddy's gonna put him in jail forever. that's what daddy does. he makes sure the bad people stay locked away.

speaker1: i admit i expected something more modern. that jail downtown? 
speaker2: filled to capacity. it has been for years. they had to re-open this for the overflow. part of it anyway.
speaker3: welcome to the county jail annex. all new inmates come here. it was in the papers.
speaker1: right. prison crowding. it's a problem.
speaker2: for the record: you've waived legal counsel. you've offered to confess to the murders of clarence darby and rupert ames. yes?
speaker1: we'll get to that. first, what i'd really like to talk about is the cot in my cell. it's lumpy. hardly any padding? steel springs?

speaker1: i know what lumpy means. sorry to hear it. but we're not here to talk about prison conditions, we're here to talk about things you've done. 
speaker2: start with things i haven't done. like get any sleep last night. i said let's begin today fresh and rested. you recall my words?
speaker1: what do you want from me?
speaker2: a bed in my cell.
speaker1: a bed. in your cell.
speaker2: yes, please. one of those sleep- matic adjustables. those are best.
speaker1: you want the variable temperature control too?
speaker2: that would be nice.
speaker1: anybody?
speaker3: it's a steel cot! it's bolted to the wall!

speaker1: i'm sure they have a wrench. 
speaker2: we also have rules prohibiting personal items such as beds.
speaker1: let me get this straight. you're going to let a bed prevent this confession from taking place.
speaker3: you looking to deal? all right, how's this? how about i don't kick your teeth down your throat?
speaker4: nick.
speaker3: sorry, jonas. okay, kid gloves. my daughter slept in our bed last night. she hasn't done that since she was six. you gave her nightmares. so excuse me if i don't feel like cutting any little deals today.
speaker1: my daughter can't have nightmares, because she died with clarence darby's breath in her face. you gave him a reduced sentence and his freedom. all i want is a good night's sleep.
speaker3: this is he's jerking our chain big-time...
speaker4: i can justify the expense.
speaker2: it's not just a bed. every inmate here will be on the phone to their lawyer filing lawsuits for equal treatment. can you justify that?

speaker1: we give him a bed, he confesses, we take the bed away. at most it's one night. 
speaker2: we're talking a high-profile double homicide. order the bed.

speaker1: switching the drugs was easy... 
speaker1: i hacked the fedex database, diverted the package to me, made the switch, sent the package on. it's automated tracking numbers moving millions of packages daily. nobody's questioning who receives what, or why.
speaker2: and the prison phones?
speaker1: get a phone company uniform, hack the prison database, schedule an official visit. they'll wave you through the gate, like they did me. it's simple if you know how things work. it's a system. you learn how it works. you play it. any system.

speaker1: i saw him die. that stuff burned his veins. he suffered terribly. 
speaker2: score.
speaker1: let's move on to clarence darby.
speaker2: hey, you like music?
speaker1: very much. why?
speaker2: i could tell. i love music. all of it. it's like air in my lungs. so the thing about clarence darby is, i want my record collection and player brought to me. the vinyl discs as well as cds.
speaker3: vinyl records and cds can be broken into shards. they make excellent weapons. my answer to that one, mr. clyde, is not no, but no.
speaker1: it's a legitimate concern.
speaker2: how about my ipod and speaker dock?

speaker1: the player stays out here. you hand the remote to the on-duty guard every night at lights out. those terms aren't negotiable. 
speaker2: i appreciate your compromise.
speaker1: you looking to get your kicked? by every inmate on this cellblock. you keep this up, they'll take it out on you. harshly.
speaker1: just trying to keep you alive in here. that's all.
speaker2: i took his fingers with a bolt cutter. his toes with a pair of tin snips. his with a hacksaw...

speaker1: ...his with a box cutter. his skin with a filet knife. his teeth with pliers. his eyes...for those i used my fingers. check the video i made. all that will match up. i kept him alive for an hour, give or take. time it. 
speaker1: what now?
speaker2: my office types it up, you sign.

speaker1: how about a signing bonus? the small concessions you've made so far have kept my cooperation flowing...why not give me a reward for signing? 
speaker2: you don't want to sign, don't sign. we've got you on videotape, we'll go to trial. in ten years, when your appeals are exhausted, i'll attend your execution. i'll make sure nobody tampers with the drugs.
speaker1: don't be such a hard-ass, nick. i don't want much. just a good meal. the food here? no offense.
speaker3: what do you have in mind?
speaker1: there's a place in town on halston.
speaker3: it's a little above my pay grade.
speaker1: you know it, don't you, nick?
speaker2: i've eaten there. so?
speaker1: they cater. tonight, at 7 p.m., i would like my meal delivered to my cell from la traviata. with nice silverware, crisp linens...
speaker2: not gonna happen.
speaker1: why not?

speaker1: because i have no interest in making it happen. and you have nothing left to bargain with. 
speaker2: c'mon, nick. we've just started bargaining. you haven't even heard what i'm offering yet.
speaker2: miss lowell? is your laptop still on? would you please do a search?
speaker2: william...baxter...reynolds.
speaker3: who's william reynolds?
speaker4: clarence darby's defense attorney. he brokered the testimony deal with us ten years ago. he's been missing now since...
speaker2: march of '06.
speaker2: detectives dunnigan and garza will like this offer, nick. it'll clear one of their department's missing- persons files. and it'll solve them their third homicide this week.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker2: how do you think i located clarence darby after he got out of jail and legally changed his name? reynolds told me -- though it took some convincing.

speaker1: gps position is as follows... 
speaker2: ...delta niner foxtrot...gps coordinates follow...

speaker1: ...he holds two dozen patents that have made him a lot of money the last ten years. he's invested a lot of it in real estate. weird stuff. 
speaker2: weird how?
speaker1: properties with no real value. around airports, chemical plants. stuff nobody wants...
speaker3: motherfucker...
speaker1: he votes. he gives money to charity, mostly victim's funds...

speaker1: ...but he also gives a big chunk to macular research. 
speaker2: he donates to eye research?
speaker1: rpi. that's the charity you work with, isn't it?
speaker2: huh. strange.

speaker1: ...consommã©...sea bass...squab... new york strip, rare...a variety of pates... 
speaker2: rack of lamb?
speaker1: ...oh, yes, rack of lamb...

speaker1: you're bruising the crepes. 
speaker2: life's a then you die.
speaker3: ...no plates, they break into nice jagged pieces...nothing sharp, nothing that can be made sharp...no forks, no knives, no spoons....lose that carafe...we will have no potential weapons of any kind this evening, thank you...you can eat with your fingers...
speaker4: the guards will think me gauche.

speaker1: i suppose if i don't share, you'll beat the out of me. make me squeal like a piggy. that sort of thing. 
speaker2: a.

speaker1: why do you have him in the dome? 
speaker2: he killed his cellmate. we had to separate him out.
speaker3: what's wrong with solitary?
speaker2: we don't have the authority. not without a court order. this place was re-opened under protest as it is. some areas are off-limits to our use -- tied up in a legal challenge by the aclu as cruel and unusual. especially solitary. it was nicknamed the dungeon...
speaker1: get judge burch on the phone.

speaker1: nice trick with the rack of lamb. 
speaker2: why'd you kill your cellmate?
speaker3: i claim self-defense.
speaker2: here's what i think. you suckered us in. you ordered that meal for the purpose of killing him.
speaker4: which makes it premeditated. again.
speaker3: and, again, you'll have to prove that in court. as i've said before... ...make your case. or set me free.
speaker5: your booby-trap killed two of mine and put four in the hospital. that brings the total of people you've killed to six -- and be advised the bureau does not suffer losing agents in the field. we're done dancing. i have the right to claim jurisdiction here, do i not, detective dunnigan?
speaker6: that is correct, agent davies.
speaker5: so. i'm gonna rendition your ass. rumor has it we have places that make guantanamo look like disneyland. don't bother packing, you're gonna disappear.
speaker3: you see, nick? that man is pissed! that's what i'm talking about! no deals, no compromise! you see?
speaker2: i see you totally disconnected from reality, that's what i see!

speaker1: thank you, judge burch. consider your court order signed. freedom? not likely. in fact, you just bought a one room suite in the dungeon. very exclusive. 
speaker2: you'll have it all to yourself -- the first man down there in over twenty years. quite an achievement.
speaker1: you're doing everything wrong. making all the wrong moves.
speaker3: it would seem that way.
speaker1: sam. i know you got hit hard. i know you're furious. but i'd like my shot at prosecuting this case. this started with us. let me finish it. give me that chance.
speaker3: i'm seeing fire in your belly, nick. i like it. keep going. this is our deal, after all...
speaker4: let's not mistake this! this is not about the two of you!

speaker1: wake up, blind man! it's been exactly that since i watched him shake clarence darby's hand on the steps of the hall of justice ten years ago! the hall of justice! 
speaker2: you wanna take this down? be my guest. whatever you need.
speaker1: that's the spirit, yes! it's on you now, nick. it's your game to lose. just don't screw up. you do, they'll scapegoat you. that's how the justice system works. good call, sam. making me disappear was a bad idea. you couldn't have handled the blowback.
speaker3: blowback?
speaker1: cause and effect. your actions provoke reactions. the choices you make come back to haunt you. there are things i've set in motion. dominoes that will fall. didn't see the rack of lamb coming? start a list. all i can do at this point...if i feel like it...is stop them from happening. ready to talk deal?
speaker3: you're insane.
speaker1: see how insane you think this is. you're going to release me from this place with all charges dropped within twenty four hours...
speaker3: or what?
speaker1: or i start killing everybody.

speaker1: what can he do? we've got him boxed in. he's isolated, for sake. 
speaker2: let's keep him that way. strict rules apply. law says he gets one hour outside his cell a day, that's what he gets. just one, under heavy guard. the other twenty-three hours, he's in that cell, he's a ghost, he doesn't exist. no contact whatsoever.
speaker3: you think it was a bluff?
speaker2: we underestimated him before. i'd like to know what this is capable of. update on the background check?
speaker4: properties, investments, a few small businesses he owns -- a lot of it's hidden behind false names and shell companies, but we're still digging...
speaker2: that's it? nothing else unusual?
speaker5: the last twenty years, he's been joe blow citizen. but prior to that, we've hit a blank spot. he used to do consulting for the government, but we can't pin down what.

speaker1: what kind of government work leaves a blank spot, sam? 
speaker2: i'll make a few discreet calls. see what i can find out.

speaker1: where are you? 
speaker2: million miles away. sorry.
speaker1: don't be. this guy's really doing a number on your head, isn't he?
speaker2: yeah. i guess he is. it's...killing his cellmate. i need that to make sense.
speaker1: why? happens in prison all the time.
speaker2: yeah, i know, but...we're not talking some gang-banger. this man is precise. does things for a reason.
speaker1: he's psycho. you said so yourself. we saw it on that video. psychos don't need a reason, nick. they're just psycho. whatever. you'll figure it out. you always do.
speaker2: thanks. i'm a poor excuse, though. it's date night. you deserve better. just wish you'd picked another restaurant.

speaker1: this is our place. you love it here. you should have said something... 
speaker2: have we decided?
speaker3: sam? what is it? not far, maybe six blocks. i'm having dinner with my wife.

speaker1: he's coming here? 
speaker2: so i'm told. it's called inter-agency cooperation, but don't ask me what agency because i wouldn't know. this isn't even back-channels, this is theseus in the labyrinth. i just blew thirty years' worth of favors today calling in this one chit. i hope it's worth it.

speaker1: that's good there. 
speaker1: which one of you is davies?
speaker1: you must be well thought of, agent davies. i don't do this. but i was asked nicely by the right people. they briefed me on your problems with benson clyde.
speaker2: what are we dealing with?
speaker1: things i can neither confirm nor deny. things of which, if i'm asked, i will disavow any knowledge.
speaker3: you gotta be kidding me with this guy.
speaker1: he's not. tell me you grasp the implication of what i've said, or we're done here.
speaker3: yeah. okay. i get it.

speaker1: what was clyde? some kind of spy? 
speaker2: spooks like me are a dime a dozen. clyde was a brain. he ran a think- tank, inventing things for use in the field. ways to kill people. you need to get rid of somebody. it's not a situation where you can get close. what do you do?
speaker1: ask clyde?
speaker2: that's right. ask clyde. and he'd figure something out. gizmos, strategy. he was good at it.
speaker1: how good?
speaker2: you play chess?
speaker1: yeah. tournament level in college, matter of fact.
speaker2: in my line, we use an aptitude profile based on chess. a tournament- level player like you can think five to eight steps ahead of an average player, did you know that? me, i think about ten steps ahead, so i'd take you in a game.
speaker1: what about clyde?
speaker2: off the charts. if you're eight steps ahead, he's twenty. or fifty. he's already got the game won on the first move, you don't even know you're playing yet. this cellmate he killed? you think that was random? that was a taken off the board. if i were you, i'd be trying to figure out what the move was.

speaker1: i have been. any thoughts? 
speaker2: top of my head? was the cellmate ever connected with this case? or with clyde? was anybody else in that facility? guards? cons? the janitor? any connection at all, no matter how remote. because if clyde says he has things in play, he does.
speaker3: like what? he's locked up. what can he do?
speaker2: you're an average chess player, aren't you?
speaker3: actually, i kind of suck.
speaker2: i can tell. but i like your tie.
speaker3: thank you. father's day.
speaker2: there's this tie -- we call it the albert, after albert desalvo. they tiptoe in one night, thread a piano wire with a ratchet gizmo into one of your ties. sounds crazy, but trust me it works. you put your tie on and all day long it slowly tightens. you don't even notice it's cutting off the blood-flow to your brain. then you drop dead. brain-dead or plain dead, doesn't much matter at that point. clyde invented that.

speaker1: daddy! 
speaker1: mom said i could stay up late. wanna play scrabble?
speaker2: let me talk to mom first.
speaker2: sorry about date night.
speaker3: it's fine. you learn anything?
speaker2: thing or two.
speaker3: nick?
speaker2: hey, i was thinking. maybe you could pack an overnight bag for you and emma in case you need to...you know...spend the night in a hotel.
speaker3: why would we wanna do that?
speaker2: no reason. it's like a fire-drill thing. you know. in case.

speaker1: honey? 
speaker1: what the are you doing?
speaker2: daddy?
speaker3: it's okay, baby -- i'm fine, i promise. go back to your game.
speaker1: seriously, nick. what the
speaker3: nothing. i got paranoid for no reason, that's all. i'm fine now. i can't believe i let that son of a clyde get to me like that.
speaker1: are you in danger? are we?
speaker3: i'm sure we're fine.
speaker3: i'll make sure. sarah, roust the adas. tell 'em we're pulling an all-nighter.

speaker1: see if there's anybody locked up here -- or working here -- ex-cop, witness for the prosecution -- anybody who might have had anything to do with the original darby-ames case, or has any previous history with benson clyde. start with the cellmate. flag anything, no matter how insignificant it seems... 
speaker2: this could take days.
speaker3: we boring you, jameson? you got someplace to be?
speaker2: no, miss lowell.
speaker3: weekend plans? cancel 'em! i don't wanna hear any about it! clack-clack, jameson. clack-clack.

speaker1: well? 
speaker2: it used to be a sleep-matic adjustable bed. now it's not.
speaker1: what do you have?
speaker3: rocky mountain way. joe walsh. what do you want from me, it's a ipod.
speaker1: tear it apart, make sure. memory. speakers. wiring. everything.

speaker1: blood stain. few fibers. that's it. 
speaker2: warden, man, whassup?
speaker3: everybody back to sleep.
speaker4: i want to see him.

speaker1: you're up early. trouble sleeping? 
speaker2: it was a good bluff. but you're done. with my head. scaring my family half to death. done.
speaker1: amazing, isn't it? how primal that is. that pull? what a man is capable of when it comes to his family?
speaker2: you strip away all the polite that's what we're really about.
speaker1: i hope you never face what it is to lose them, nick. it's like dying yourself. there's nothing worse.
speaker2: good night, ben.
speaker1: good night, nick.
speaker1: is it casual friday? i've never seen you not wear a tie.

speaker1: we dug pretty deep for one night. still got a ways to go, but on a first look? nothing. nada. zip. 
speaker2: well, that's good news.
speaker3: so far. now we double-down. make absolutely certain. let them all sleep a few hours, then bring 'em back for round two.
speaker1: due diligence. my middle name.
speaker4: fellas. for once, glad not to be of assistance.
speaker5: love it when they cry wolf.

speaker1: baby. listen. don't be worried or scared. but i want you to pack those overnight bags... i don't have time to explain now. just do it, okay? i'll call you back as soon as i can -- please, honey, i gotta go. he clicks off as angle comes around, revealing davies and his teams coming his way: 
speaker2: each car had an explosive charge on the gas tank.
speaker1: he's got someone working with him.
speaker2: not necessarily. everything looks pre-rigged.
speaker3: we found a short-range transmitter beacon buried outside the prison wall. when your people showed up here and drove in through the gate, the signal armed the bombs.
speaker4: he could have planted those bombs a month ago.
speaker5: no...no, we've got two dozen adas on payroll. those eight were picked last night on the spur of the moment. how could he know which eight would show up?

speaker1: i want a phone in my cell. if i'm conducting my own defense, it would be useful. also in case you and i need to be in touch, nick. 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: your twenty four hours are about up. in return for the phone, i'll extend you another twelve hours.
speaker2: if not?
speaker1: how many more people die while you stand around dithering? how many do you get killed before my point starts sinking in?
speaker3: whatever point you had was lost long ago! eight kids dead in that yard, most of them just out of college! eight! i have to talk to their families. i have to try to explain why their loved ones are dead.
speaker1: i've been waiting for my explanation for ten years. so far...

speaker1: if it hasn't dawned on you, this is a war. as in any war, there will be collateral damage. the question, as always, is how much damage you're willing to take before you withdraw. 
speaker2: maybe i got a better idea. maybe we end this war right now. fourteen people dead! i have to say this out loud? prisoners die in custody all the time. attacking a guard. trying to escape. like that.
speaker2: don't tempt me.
speaker3: christ, man, dial it back...
speaker1: do it. it would be decisive. stupid, but decisive. can you handle the blowback, detective? the "shit like that?"
speaker4: put the gun away! are you crazy?
speaker2: it's an option. all i'm saying.
speaker4: we're not risking anything. or letting him tear us down. you're not getting us to throw out the rules, like you. no way.

speaker1: i like rules. i've wanted you to follow them from the start. like the one that says you prosecute a man who murders my family. so. rules. a phone buys you another twelve hours. but if you haven't cut my deal and let me go by the deadline... 
speaker2: what? what then?
speaker1: i'll kill someone in this room.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: eenie...meenie...miney...moe...
speaker1: ...my mother...told me...to pick...a person...and that...person...is...
speaker3: who's he pointing at?
speaker3: him. let him try.
speaker2: that's not helpful! we have fourteen dead! you could ask them what he's capable of, but they're in no position to answer.

speaker1: point taken. 
speaker2: we'll give him his phone. we'll tap in and monitor every call.
speaker3: buys us another twelve hours, we could use that right now. that puts the deadline at... ...about 7:30 tonight.
speaker1: i'll be in front of a room full of lawyers. the a.b.a. dinner.
speaker4: no way. find a replacement.
speaker3: until his deadline passes, you're in protective custody. not negotiable.
speaker4: and have them switch the location of that dinner.
speaker1: that's last minute.

speaker1: exactly. he could have gotten your schedule in advance -- been planning to take you out at the dinner along with everybody else. that eenie- meenie act could have been horseshit. we have to get a few moves ahead. 
speaker2: this way, mr. cantrell. garza, you're with mr. price.
speaker1: hey baby -- no, i'm fine. really. honey, calm down...
speaker1: our just hit the fan in a big way -- we're all over the news... yes, all eight died. sarah's in surgery right now... ...they think so, but... ...okay, i'll meet you there. love you.
speaker3: you're good. car's been swept.
speaker1: of course it has. thanks.

speaker1: keep the press off this floor, understand? 
speaker2: any word?
speaker3: she's in surgery now. they're saying she'll be okay.
speaker2: thank that's good.
speaker3: good? you'll have to explain the good part, nick. i'm missing it. this is crazy. what if something happened to you? what would i say to emma? what would we do?
speaker2: you didn't lose me. you won't. does the school know we're pulling emma out of class?
speaker3: i called, yeah, but -- i'd rather be here for sarah when she wakes up. nick -- and for you. i want to do something...
speaker2: you are. getting our daughter out of harm's way. and yourself. detective. will you my wife, please? there's not much time. i'll be there to see you off. okay? please?

speaker1: ...details are sketchy at this point, and names are being withheld... 
speaker2: sarah's fine. that's the good news.
speaker3: oh, that's a relief... miss lowell is okay...she's okay...
speaker3: we've been getting calls from upstairs. the mayor's people. someone from our office has to make a statement to the press. with mr. cantrell absent, the mayor wants you to do it.

speaker1: royce...how much petty cash do we have in the safe? 
speaker2: i don't know...four thousand?
speaker1: give it to me. and your cell phone.
speaker2: what do you want me to tell the mayor?

speaker1: i wanna see sarah... 
speaker2: hey, hey...she's fine, don't be scared. that's not allowed. and there's no reason for it.
speaker1: this
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: why do we have to go?

speaker1: 'cause your mom wants to see a few broadway shows. you gonna begrudge her that? 
speaker2: you're kinda full of dad.
speaker1: okay, you're right. maybe i am a little. but only a little. the part you can believe is that this is all going to be fine. sarah, us. i mean it. okay?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: no credit cards. too easy to track. meals, hotel, whatever -- pay cash.
speaker1: i'll keep this. it can be traced. use this one instead. don't answer unless you see it's me.

speaker1: anything else? 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: emma's right. this
speaker1: be careful.

speaker1:  
speaker2: nick? these guys won't even let me pack a bag. not even a toothbrush.
speaker3: we have granules of an unidentified substance in the ice-maker...
speaker3: i'm betting something lethal.
speaker4: like this salt. not sodium chloride. potassium chloride. it's a neuro-blocker, stops the heart -- they use it in lethal injections. you'd be dead before you got up from the table.

speaker1: i'm telling you, clyde has someone working with him. someone on the outside. 
speaker2: who? who could he have?
speaker1: somebody from his past. could be that spook we met on the stairs, for all we know -- he'd know how to plant this
speaker2: him? no--why would clyde let him come talk to us?
speaker1: to with our heads? to get us to bring in our adas so he could blow them up?
speaker3: it would be a clyde move. but it's not proof. could he have planted this stuff in your house before he was arrested?
speaker2: i--i don't know...
speaker1: jonas, think -- last few days, have you used any ice? any salt?
speaker2: i don't use salt--my cholesterol.
speaker1: before or after he was arrested?
speaker2: i don't remember! you track your use of ice, nick? you keep a daily log?

speaker1: heads-up! looks like polonium here. in his tea pot. same way the russians killed litvenenko. took him two weeks to die. it's an exotic isotope. all you need is a trace amount. rips through your organs and bone marrow. 
speaker2: i'll buy you a new toothbrush.

speaker1: holy 
speaker2: nice?
speaker3: i'm actually a little jealous clyde didn't pick me.
speaker4: it's the presidential suite. last person who stayed here was actually a president. of a country. security here is amazing.
speaker1: it's not bad, jonas. i think you can muddle through.
speaker3: you're muddling with him. i don't want you back at your house until my people sweep it. you need pajamas, buy some in the shop downstairs.

speaker1: the background check my office was compiling -- these properties we think clyde owns? if he is working with somebody, they could be operating out of any of these. we should check them. 
speaker2: i'll try to wrangle additional manpower. big job.
speaker3: no this is quite a list. over forty locations?
speaker1: it's not even complete. sarah was in the middle of it -- untangling property ownership from under assumed names, shell companies. she's the expert on all that.
speaker4: fellas... i'm grateful for all your efforts. i just wanted to say it.
speaker1: save it for tonight. hope you're in the mood for chinese takeout.
speaker4: where are you going?
speaker1: that stuff in your house -- it's all gone too far. i started this. i owe everybody at least one last try at defusing it.

speaker1: interesting location you've chosen. 
speaker2: i thought we'd have some privacy.
speaker1: for what? a talk? or... maybe you've decided to take detective dunnigan's advice.
speaker2: be the perfect place for it. outside the wall. look like you were shot trying to escape.

speaker1: you have some kind of signal worked out? you scratch your nose and blam, i'm a goner? 
speaker2: something like that.
speaker1: might solve all your problems. what's stopping you? afraid of the blowback?
speaker2: no. it's to prove a point. just because i have the power, doesn't mean i have to use it.
speaker1: ah. nice. good one.
speaker2: one can show mercy.
speaker1: mercy. right.
speaker2: yeah. so why don't you?

speaker1: i think we've come a little too far for that, haven't we, nick? i mean, what do i say? sorry, my bad? which way to the execution chamber? 
speaker2: don't give me that. death doesn't scare you.
speaker1: yeah, but...we're in the flow of this now. you cry havoc, you let slip the dogs of war, you go with it. you don't just stop because someone says hey wait. by then the dogs are dragging you.
speaker2: until one side admits defeat. what if i did that? what if i said... ...you were right. i was wrong. what if i say i should have prosecuted both men ten years ago?
speaker1: i'd say you're making progress. you should have, you know. prosecuted both.
speaker2: i'd have lost.
speaker1: with your head held high. and without any blame from me.
speaker2: yeah... she is? great news. i'll stop on my way back. and royce? put some get- well flowers in her room, they sell 'em in the lobby. thanks. six hours in surgery.

speaker1: but she's okay -- good. miss lowell is a fine young woman. oh, hey...your wife and little girl get out of town all right? 
speaker2: you asking that question makes me want to scratch my nose.
speaker1: just a guess. it's what i would do. get 'em out, make sure they're safe. c'mon. like i'd ever have hurt them anyway.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: there are limits. even in war. i may be many things, nick. but i'm not clarence darby. i'm not rupert ames. i'm not that kind of monster.
speaker2: what kind are you?
speaker1: not the kind who'd hurt your wife and child. christ, look at me. mine were my salvation -- then they were killed -- and all i had left was this. life without them in this charnel-house world.
speaker1: it hurt to lose them, didn't it? your family. even knowing they'd come back.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: imagine knowing they wouldn't.
speaker2: i can't. i can't imagine that.

speaker1: good. i envy you. for me, knowing mine won't come back is the only thing that's crowded my thoughts for ten years. if i could take a rusty knife and cut out that part of my brain, i would. 
speaker2: i won't make any more deals with murderers. if hearing that makes a difference...if that was the point of all this...you've won.
speaker1: counselor. i have no doubt, as we stand here, that you really believe that. i wish i could. are we done? you gonna scratch your nose, or can i go?

speaker1: judge's chambers. 
speaker2: laura? laura, that you?

speaker1: i'm sorry, judge burch is gone for the evening. 
speaker2: dang it. listen, honey, i flew in from galveston for this a.b.a thing laura invited me to -- just got here and they said it was moved.

speaker1: ...tell hansen we need hard info on those addresses...don't let the shell game on ownership title slow him down...at this point we'll take educated guesses... 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: hey. nice flowers. thanks.
speaker2: how you doing?
speaker1: this place has great drugs. i should've totaled my leg long ago.
speaker1: they're all dead?
speaker2: i'm afraid so.
speaker2: you're alive. that counts for a lot. i'm sorry i put you in harm's way.

speaker1: who's winning? 
speaker2: laszlo, the cheatin' prick...
speaker3: yer mama...
speaker4: wanna sit in?
speaker1: if i had my braille set, i'd clean you out. not much of a game if you have to tell me what my cards are.
speaker4: right...sorry.
speaker1: people forget. no worries. enjoy your game, fellas.
speaker2: need help? want one of us should walk you down?
speaker1: i'm good. unfamiliar places take me a little longer. but i get there.
speaker4: holler if you need anything. okay, who's in, who's out...

speaker1: it's okay. it's gonna be okay. 
speaker2: ...jonas was upset not to be here with you tonight...a personal matter came up...but he wanted me to give you all his fondest regards...

speaker1: ...we need help up here... 
speaker2: christ. what the hit us?

speaker1: we're worldwide news this morning. almost twenty dead, among them some of this country's top attorneys. i had friends in that room. hell, i almost attended myself. 
speaker2: the second explosion. i saw a rocket fired. clyde does have somebody on the outside.
speaker1: what you saw or think you saw is beside the point. what matters is that the fbi wanted to rendition this man out of my city. the reason he's still here causing havoc is you. you wanted to prosecute this case. your ambition kept him here and provoked this tragedy.
speaker3: ...not entirely fair...
speaker1: detective. your job is hanging by a thread. i'd think a man of your experience would know when to keep his mouth shut and his covered.

speaker1: when i go in front of the cameras today -- unlike some people who seem unwilling to do so when asked -- i'm going to make sure the media doesn't hang this abject disaster around my neck. why? because i'm hanging it on yours. you're done. gone. fired. non- existent. get the out. 
speaker2: hey. some legal team from the mayor showed up here this morning. i hear you're off the case. told you they'd scapegoat you, didn't i? nick? you there?
speaker3: how'd you kill jonas? i know about the second explosion, i saw the contrail, so i know you got somebody working for you. but the first explosion -- how?
speaker2: say you find a guy with a bad cocaine problem. hungry ex-wives. greedy mistress. heavy gambling debts.
speaker2: say that guy's a veterinarian. you hand him a million in cash, he'll do what you ask. especially if he's looking to blow town for good...

speaker1: it was...inside the dog? 
speaker2: you own the vet, you own the dog. explosive wasn't even that big. stuff i use, it didn't have to be. hidden in plain sight. that's my specialty. haven't you figured that out yet?
speaker2: what's next for you? mulling career options? i suppose law is out.
speaker1: i'm trying to get over my friend being dead. aside from that, you.
speaker2: fair enough. i'll miss you nick. it was a good dance.
speaker1: didn't bring your family back, though, did it? has it made you feel better? all this? you done making your point?
speaker2: just warming up. this is clausewitz my friend. total war.
speaker2: i'm gonna pull the whole thing down. i will topple the gleaming pillars and drag the whole diseased, corrupt temple down on my head. stay tuned. it'll be biblical.

speaker1: ...going live now to city hall where mayor tilden is about to make a statement...announcing, we're told, among other things, the dismissal of district attorney nick price... 
speaker2: thank you all for gathering on this solemn and anxious occasion...

speaker1: we got the latest batch of background in. hansen and the other guy did some good work here-- 
speaker2: sarah. give it a rest. it's over. we're done. i'm done. the mayor is nailing my coffin shut. the best thing you can do right now is distance yourself from me as much as you can -- see what you can salvage of your career.
speaker1: this lists over fifty shit-value properties in industrial zones that nobody in their right mind would want to own -- stuff around chemical plants, factories. all are owned by benson clyde. look at twenty-two.
speaker2: "joe's lube-and-drive garage." went out of business in '94. now why would joe's extinct lube- and-shit garage be of the slightest possible interest to you, me, or anyone?
speaker1: the garage, not so much. but the address. look at the location.

speaker1: do we finish this tonight? 
speaker2: nick? jesus... look. no hard feelings, but there is no "we." you're radioactive. i can't even be seen talking to you...
speaker1: i know who he's got on the outside. i'll ask again. do we finish this tonight?

speaker1: all units. subject vehicle is on the move. 
speaker1: everybody maintain distance.

speaker1: subject vehicle turning south off of hudson...into an alley... 
speaker2: hang back...hang back...

speaker1: five and six, stick with that building in case he's trying to cowboy us. all other units, stay with the van... 
speaker2: i have visual on van. logo on side reads "nomos custodial services."
speaker3: where the is he going?

speaker1: mr. nomos! ain't seen you around. 
speaker2: ted...had to get that vacation in.
speaker1: nice. good for you.
speaker2: hey, what's all that hoopla at the main entrance?
speaker1: mayor's got a big thing. thousand dollar a plate whatever.
speaker2: i'll stay out of their way.
speaker1: they're up on six, avoid that floor.

speaker1: what floor? 
speaker2: i told him to avoid six... there...
speaker2: that's the main courtroom on five.
speaker3: that's right below the ballroom.

speaker1: no. let him go. we know where to find him. let's get to that courtroom. 
speaker2: i hope you know what the you're doing. negative. we're letting him go. all units hang back. repeat. we are letting the subject go.

speaker1: there. 
speaker2: don't touch it! could be motion sensitive!
speaker2: i need light!
speaker3: i have visual...suspect leaving the building...different service exit...

speaker1: crap. explosives. nasty ones. 
speaker2: what? c-4?
speaker1: c-4 is for girl scouts. this is malglinite. take out the whole floor above us...maybe this entire corner of the building...
speaker3: can you open it? disarm it?
speaker1: no, we got tripwires. we open this lid, instant karma's gonna get us. don't see a motion sensor. trigger looks simple...dial a cell phone, incoming call arms the trigger -- trigger's set to count down from forty seconds, then boom. that call comes in, we have forty seconds to get as far away from this thing as possible.
speaker2: alert the mayor's security team. evacuate those people upstairs -- clear that ballroom, go!
speaker3: no!
speaker2: no? what the are you talking about, this could go off any second!

speaker1: he won't set it off until that room is full! people are still arriving, red carpet that's at least another half hour! 
speaker2: i will not take that risk!
speaker1: you have to!
speaker1: if i'm him, i've rigged cameras in that ballroom -- live video feed -- first sign of an evacuation, i trigger the bomb. we have to think ahead of this
speaker3: i'm open.
speaker2: okay, nick. what's the move?

speaker1: imagine mine. 
speaker2: beautiful how you played us. getting yourself tossed into solitary -- pre-rigged with exits from all five cells. whichever one we put you in, you had your bases covered. i thought i was such a bad-ass putting you down here. turns out i was doing what you wanted.
speaker1: that's how you play. make the other guy think it's his idea. you came to talk, so talk.
speaker2: been thinking. if i'd done things differently -- made different decisions from the start -- we wouldn't have gotten to this point.
speaker1: but it happened. and here we are.
speaker2: here we are. your decisions put us here too.
speaker1: you want to hold hands? what's your point?
speaker2: we can't change decisions we've made. we can only account for decisions we make from here. i know what mine will be. what about you? you gonna finish dialing that number, or what?
speaker1: if i don't? what are you offering?
speaker2: you looking to deal?

speaker1: i'm willing to listen. 
speaker2: okay, here's the deal. the deal is...there is no deal. i told you. no more deals with murderers. i'm sticking to that. that's my decision. it's what you taught me. strange as it sounds, i'm grateful for the lesson.
speaker2: your turn. you make the right decision, i'll see what i can do for you. but the wrong decision is one you'll have to live with the rest of your life.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: me too...
speaker2: ...because like i said, it's a decision you'll have to live with the rest of your life. which at this point i figure is... ...another 35 seconds.
speaker2: check mate.

speaker1: thank that wing was empty. 
speaker1: how do i explain this to the city?
speaker2: i think the mayor will have your back. nick approaches, comes abreast of them.

