speaker: this is B
Agent: hi b this is a from american express
speaker: oh hi
Agent: ok
speaker: we need to get a ticket for him from Boston
Agent: this is a new reservation?
speaker: new reservation on June twenty first
Agent: ok let me let me pull up his profile (first
Agent: ok and he is umm
speaker: he wants to fl- he wants to fly from Boston 
Agent: mmm hmm
speaker: to Baltimore Washington International on flight, I'm sure it's Piedmont
speaker: P L P I 
Agent: p i at what time?
speaker: uh seven forty p.m.
Agent: and this is on the twenty first of june?
speaker: Yeah arriving nine oh one p.m.
Agent: ok that's piedmont one nine zero nine on the twenty first of june
speaker: right
Agent: departing boston seven forty p.m. arriving baltimore nine oh one p.m.
speaker: right and then he wants to return from um Baltimore Washington
Agent: uh huh
speaker: to San Francisco on the twenty third of June and he requests flight three
speaker: two three TWA
speaker: actually it's two flight numbers it's three two three and then it changes to
speaker: seven five one at five sixteen in the afternoon
Agent: ok one moment. this is to san jose? did you say?
speaker: I understand it's to San Francisco.  TWA flight three two three slash seven
speaker: five one
Agent: three two three and seven five one. ok and then does he know there is a
Agent: nonstop that goes from dulles to san francisco? instead of connection
Agent: through st. louis
speaker: I think he's aware of it  but I think we picked this one because um he could
speaker: get the business traveller (uh seating
Agent: he can also) he can also get that on the non stop
speaker: on the nonstop and what is the uh, give me the times for the nonstop
Agent: ok one moment, the non stop is at four forty arriving seven oh five
speaker: se- four forty to seven oh five
Agent: into san francisco it's a non stop from dulles to san francisco, maybe he
Agent: can't leave that early (??
speaker: I don't know,) uh let me can I make the reservation and and change it by
speaker: tomorrow? (??
Agent: sure) if it's it's still available, right
speaker: yeah I know subject to availability I'm sorry I've been giving you quick
speaker: numbers here
Agent: it's ok.
speaker: it's all right, let me just check the umm ??
Agent: and now lets see what kind of fares. they have a three day advance purchase
Agent: fare using the business class upgrade of four forty nine one way
speaker: I was quoted six oh eight fifty for the whole round f- from Boston to
speaker: Washington from Washington um to San Francisco
Agent: now this portion was for baltimore san francisco only. ok let me just see
Agent: what
speaker: could you find out how much the fare is all, total?
Agent: ok it's six oh eight fifty that has to be ticketed by the fifteenth of june
Agent: there are no cancellation or change penalties, if any changes are made it's
Agent: just subject to whatever the new fare is
speaker: sure
Agent: ok, it has to be ticketed by the fifteenth of june
speaker: all right
Agent: there are no penalties for cancellation if changes are made it's subject to
Agent: whatever the new fares are at that time
speaker: ok
Agent: cause they're going to increase the fare
speaker: but there's no penalty existing
Agent: there's no penalty uh if it's cancelled no
speaker: yeah the nonstop flight seems to be more appealing to me I mean this man
speaker: travels so much though let me check with him um
Agent: ok so what so we're going to hold, we'll just go ahead and hold the um
speaker: hold that TWA then I will inform him of the Dulles flight at fou- four forty
speaker: leaving uh Dulles and arriving is it San Francisco at seven oh five?
Agent: uh
speaker: or San Jose?
Agent: it's san francisco
speaker: San Francisco that's what he wants ok
speaker: it's still six oh eight any which way we do this I'm just thinking the
speaker: convenience of the traveller
Agent: on the non stop let me see i think you get that same fare let me check the
Agent: fares
speaker: ok
Agent: i think it that would have to be using a twenty five percent penalty on twa.
Agent: yeah it would be twenty dollars more if he wanted to have a fare without a
Agent: penalty
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: because the dulles non stop to get that four forty nine you have to take a
Agent: twenty five percent penalty fare, if you don't then it's four sixty nine,
Agent: so it would increase that total fare by twenty dollars
speaker: so it's six oh eight plus twenty?
Agent: right, if he wanted to go without a penalty it's six plus twenty
speaker: He needs the cheapest rate possible on this one.  um so let me talk it over
speaker: with him, uhh
Agent: kay then on the business class that would be row nine seat number five which
Agent: is an aisle seat. now what what about how's he getting to boston?
speaker: he's already purchased his ticket
Agent: ok so this is just all one way travel
speaker: one way travel (right
Agent: ok so that was available and i requested that, b, anything else i can
Agent: help you with?
speaker: I'll call you back on the Dulles non stop flight so we'll
Agent: if if he needs that, right
speaker: if he needs that and if he does get that he has to pay uh twenty dollars more
Agent: if he wants to take a fare without a penalty, right
speaker: a fare without a penalty
Agent: if he's willing to take it with a penalty it would be exactly the same fare
speaker: ok
Agent: ok now
speaker: I I hesitate uh for him particularly to get anything uh because he does
speaker: change a lot
Agent: uh huh
speaker: so I I'd rather get the twenty dollars but we'll see what he says
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you 
Agent: all right thanks b
speaker: you are A right?
Agent: yeah i'm a. all right
speaker: bye bye 
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a
speaker: Uh A this is uh B.  I need to make some reservations
speaker: I need to make ahh reservations and all I know at this uh time is my flight
speaker: out, uhh departing on Monday.  what do you need first?
Agent: ok let me let me pull up your (profile first
Agent: ok and the date that we know we're booking is on what day?
speaker: umm it's Monday the twentieth
Agent: and that's flying to what city?
speaker: uh to Newark United flight number twelve and I'd like first class if it's
speaker: available, I'm gonna use an upgrade coupon which is coming Federal
speaker: Express tomorrow or Wednesday.  that's the nineteenth I'm sorry
Agent: now that's on the nineteenth? (??
speaker: yeah) I'm sorry I thought Monday was the twentieth
Agent: ok do know wha- which award umm (??
speaker: well) it's uh a regular umm mileage plus upgrade where you use the miles you've
speaker: accumulated so it's good for booking first class all I have to do is give
speaker: you the coupon it's it's uh the number one priority type of uh (??
Agent: ok and is it for one way,) or round trip or per (segment?
speaker: it's round) trip, but if I only use it one way it doesn't matter it's a ro-
speaker: round trip I mean I have to forfeit the rest of it
Agent: ok that's uh united flight twelve on the twentieth of june
speaker: (yeah
Agent: oh wait) wait wait wait you said the nineteenth?
speaker: nineteenth (I'm sorry
Agent: i put twentieth) that's all right.
Agent: ok let me change that
speaker: Monday isn't the best time
Agent: no it isn't. ok so that's united flight twelve on the nineteenth of june
speaker: yeah
Agent: departing san francisco at eight twenty a.m.
speaker: yeah
Agent: arriving newark at four forty three (p.m.
speaker: right)
speaker: so uh now I'm not I'm still making uh reservations or er appointments for the
speaker: rest of the week so I'll have to get back to you on the return
Agent: ok
speaker: ok
Agent: that's fine ok thanks a
speaker: thank you 
Agent: ok
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a
speaker: Hi I'm planning a trip to Japan at the end of uhh the beginning of July
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and I have to be there on Monday morning.  I was just wondering what time I
speaker: uh you know what's the uh the latest I could leave?
Agent: ok and i'm speaking with?
speaker: B C
Agent: ok you you just need a schedule you said?
speaker: Uh yes I ha- I ca- I I can't travel on Saturday  uh well the latest the earli-
speaker: I could leave Saturday night probably around midnight or eleven at night
Agent: ok this is to tokyo?
speaker: I believe so
Agent: ok see i don't think they're going to have service that late let me tell you
Agent: non stop service the latest would be uh one p.m. arriving three thirty five
Agent: pm
speaker: on what day
Agent: on saturday
speaker: No I can't uh oh let me see what do you mean one p.m. wh- what day would I
speaker: leave?
Agent: ok we- if you give me the days i (can tell you the sched-
speaker: oh I have) a Monday morning meeting
Agent: ok (you will
speaker: I want)
Agent: always arrive the following day so if you left on a saturday you
Agent: would arrive o- on a sunday their time
speaker: ok so if I now when could I no when so I- I need to arrive there you know
speaker: either uh uh their time Monday early you know in the middle of the night would
speaker: be acceptable to me.  anytime so I can get to an office by I I you know I
speaker: would like to arrive there certainly before six a.m. in the morning on Monday
Agent: ok then you'll have to leave on a saturday because if you won't if you leave
Agent: on a sunday you're not gonna arrive there till in the afternoon
speaker: ok
Agent: like about three pm on a (monday
speaker: Is is i- i-) if I was to leave at o- I see a- and is there anything late on
speaker: Saturday night cause on Saturday I can't leave until after ten thirty or
speaker: eleven o'clock at night
Agent: well the only the only way you're going i- it's really going to be crazy
Agent: routing to do it that way but this is the only way to leave at night would
Agent: have to be to fly all the way to the east coast um to fly to jfk
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and then fly from jfk to tokyo, so you'd be kind of going backwards but
Agent: that's the only way that you'd be leaving at night (??
speaker: ok it's either) that
Agent: yeah
speaker: or I have to leave on Wednesday
Agent: i see so
speaker: So you know it's it's either I leave on Wednesday get in on Thursday or I leave
speaker: on Saturday night so let's see which way we can do this it i- i- I could
speaker: leave to to ah JFK on Saturday night
Agent: right, let me get the uh schedule, ok it would be like a ten thirty p.m.
Agent: actually that's going to get into newark let me just, actually on sunday
Agent: it's going to go via newark it's ten thirty p.m. arriving newark at six
Agent: thirty five in the morning on sunday and then departing newark at eight
Agent: twenty five a.m. and arriving one fifty five p.m. that's still going to
Agent: arrive on monday
speaker: yeah I think the uuuh you know
Agent: at one fifty five
speaker: No that's no good
speaker: is are from wh- where are there flights leaving on umm Sunday morning or
speaker: late Saturday night is there anything from Los Angeles?
Agent: kay all kay out of san francisco all the flights are afternoon, they don't
Agent: offer any morning flights to tokyo. and let me check los angeles
Agent: ok um lets see they're still going to get you in in the afternoon on monday.
Agent: if they leave, there's a flight what airline is this, varig airlines at
Agent: nine fifty a.m. arrives one thiry p.m. on monday
speaker: No so nine fifty nine fifty a.m. arrives at what time
Agent: one thirty p.m. on monday
speaker: uh huh yeah so I need to leave Saturday night or around midnight, if I
speaker: leave much after two in the morning on Sunday then I I I won't be able
speaker: to make a Monday morning th- th- that's a direct flight so you were looking,
speaker: I guess you could either look under arrivals at Tokyo or departures on
speaker: Saturday night Sunday morning
Agent: no, the one i gave you is sunday morning, that's the third one
speaker: yeah nine fifty
Agent: that's correct
speaker: (yeah but that's too l-
Agent: that's the earliest) they have, they don't have anything else
Agent: um they don't offer as i said they don't offer night service from the west
Agent: coast to tokyo
speaker: hmm
Agent: they only of- you'd have to fly all the way to the east coast but you're
Agent: defeating the whole purpose because you're you're gonna still arrive
Agent: monday at one two in the afternoon, so you'd be flying six extra hours
speaker: No, well I I I won't do that of course	  
Agent: you won- they don't have morning service that will get you there any earlier
Agent: and they don't offer night service from the west coast to tokyo
speaker: but the east coast does have night service
Agent: yeah but you're flying back across the us to go to tokyo
speaker: I know but I could do other business (there 
Agent: but you're still getting) in at two in the mo- or two in the afternoon on
Agent: monday you're not saving (??
speaker: yeah no no) no I guess I don't don't need
Agent: (yeah
speaker: there's) nothing arriving in Tokyo uh uh in the you mean two in the afternoon
speaker: I would arrive?
Agent: two o'clock is the earliest (one fifty five
speaker: that's in the afternoon)
Agent: right on monday
speaker: ok and that's it, huh?
Agent: right
speaker: ok so in order to get in there on Friday afternoon at two o'clock I leave here 
Agent: you'd leave here thursday
speaker: Thursday is what time? in the
Agent: ok, let me get the schedules for thursday
speaker: when would be the e- the earliest flight arriving on uh for Friday so?
Agent: ok the earliest if it's available would be the japan airlines, let's see,
Agent: you want to do san francisco let me check their schedules here. i'm trying
Agent: to find out which arrival is the earliest because non stop, see they have
Agent: connections that get you in at one fifty five but as far as non stop
Agent: service looks like twelve forty five arriving three twenty five is going
Agent: to be the earliest on a thursday. you could conceivably get in earlier
Agent: if you wanted to uh leave san francisco at seven a.m. arrive los angeles
Agent: eight twelve and then take a japan airlines from los angeles at ten a.m.
Agent: arriving one twenty on thursday
speaker: ok so that sounds like a route that I would that I would be interested in 
speaker: uh
Agent: and book ahead because the th- the tokyo flights sell out weeks in advance,
Agent: if you can
speaker: ok can we make a reservation on that one now?
Agent: which what is the departure date that you're referring to
speaker: umm I have to be there for the July fourth weekend, it's the last week of
speaker: June, last Thursday of June
Agent: how about the twenty eighth, flying out on the twenty eighth?
speaker: the twenty eighth is a Wednesday
Agent: yeah but you have you said you have to arrive on a thursday
speaker: I have to arrive on a Friday, I have to arrive Friday well this would
speaker: arrive ?? would bring me in Friday at one o'clock?
speaker: the routing that you suggested to Los Angeles
Agent: ok let me see cause that was on a wednesday i'm looking on a thursday.
Agent: ok, now is this going to be business class? is this a business trip?
speaker: It's a business trip, ?? coach business and first?
Agent: coach business and first, www policy allows you to fly business on
Agent: anything over six hours, so you could fly business los angeles tokyo
Agent: ok now on thursday to arrive on friday, ok let me see cause the schedules
Agent: to los angeles japan airlines doesn't service a service on thursday, so
Agent: it would be a korean airline eleven a.m. arriving two ten on friday, but
Agent: then you- you're probably just as easy to take, well its up to you a non
Agent: stop out of san francisco departs at twelve and gets in only about thirty
Agent: minutes later than that connection through los angeles
speaker: ok
Agent: there's there's a united
speaker: ok, So it looks like you know, flying direct from here if I leave on
speaker: Thursday uh I could do about three o'clock in the afternoon into Tokyo
Agent: right exactly, there's a twelve noon arrives two forty five, it's nonstop
Agent: from san francisco to tokyo
Agent: let me um just go ahead and book this united flight cause there aren't
Agent: that many seats on that, and what's your last name?
speaker: C [spells name]
Agent: and first name?
speaker: B, [spells name]
speaker: no, I I uh I just want to make the reservation to make sure I have a spot
Agent: ok and the travel advance we don't have yet either (is that correct
speaker: no no I) I might very well call you back in a few days and change it ( to
speaker: make it earlier 
Agent: ok so presently let me tell you what we're holding. ok that's united eight
Agent: one nine on the twenty nineth of june departing san francisco twelve noon
Agent: and arriving tokyo at two forty five p.m. on friday the thirtieth and that
Agent: is a non stop flight, and what is your seating preference?
Agent: ok, ok and then you're gonna call back with the rest of the itinerary on
Agent: this?
speaker: um hum
Agent: ok
speaker: (ok
Agent: anything else) ok thanks
speaker: thank you 
Agent: bye bye
