speaker: Hey A I was wondering if you could handle some some reservations for me
Agent: ok
speaker: so umm I it's it's um for my own my own flight I want to fly from San
speaker: Francisco to Syracuse New York
Agent: ok and what's your last name?
speaker: ah C
Agent: oh this is b b?
speaker: no D
Agent: and you want to travel ag- again on what day now?
speaker: umm it depends on on when the flights are I I I could leave late Friday
speaker: after work um on the eighth of September and if that doesn't work out
speaker: then I I could go the morning of the ninth of September
Agent: ok were going san francisco to syracuse it's just going to be a simple
Agent: round trip?
speaker: right uh huh
Agent: and you want the lowest fare available
speaker: yes that's that's really what I'm I'm after
Agent: ok and do you have a preference as to airlines? it's going to be wide open
Agent: on all of them at th- this far in advance
speaker: um I don't I don't I know Delta airlines flies to Rochester but I don't
speaker: think it goes to Syracuse I like Delta airlines.  umm but no, outside of
speaker: that I it's American US Air I think are our
Agent: ok
speaker: they have a lot of flights too
Agent: ok one second. 'kay you're looking at something that's going to be uhh
Agent: after work on friday?
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok the last flight out is going to be at one forty seven p.m. on twa in
Agent: terms of something that will get you there the same day that would get
Agent: in at just about midnight
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: after that it becomes red eye flights
speaker: ok I don't know if I want to want to to do a red eye, why don't we look
speaker: at uh Saturday morning
Agent: saturday morning?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and how early would you like to get to the airport, we have flights
Agent: starting at six fifteen a.m.
speaker: oh umm 
Agent: that would get you there at four o'clock
speaker: four o'clock
Agent: ummm hmmm
speaker: and it's six fifteen a.m.?
Agent: yes
speaker: um hmmm ?? that early uh and what's what's the next one?
Agent: ok then we have one at six forty a.m. which would get you there at four
Agent: thirty six
speaker: mm hmmm
Agent: umm couple right around that time period and then it jumps to seven forty
Agent: a.m. getting you there at five eleven
speaker: hmm ok why don't why don't we take the seven forty flight
Agent: ok
speaker: which which carrier is that?
Agent: that is us air
speaker: ok is it uh non stop or
Agent: no all of these are going to be connecting flights
speaker: through Pittsburg?
Agent: uhh this particular one connects through cleveland
speaker: ok
Agent: and returning on what date?
speaker: umm on ah Sunday the seventeenth of September
Agent: and morning or afternoon?
speaker: umm early morning
Agent: ok us air flight has a flight at seven fifty five a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: connecting through pittsburg it gets you back into san francisco at eleven
Agent: fifty three a.m.
speaker: ok that sounds fine
Agent: ok one second
speaker: and that's through Pittsburg?
Agent: that's correct
speaker: ok
Agent: ok we're getting a fare here of three hundred and ninety eight dollars
Agent: round trip. has a hundred percent penalty on it no changes once the uhh
Agent: ticket is issued
speaker: ok that's fine
Agent: ok it is telling us that it has to be ticketed within twenty four hours of
Agent: making the reservation, that means tomorrow
speaker: ok 
Agent: if you want to keep this reservation
Agent: ok we have you on us air flight one one six
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: on the ninth of september out of san francisco at seven forty a.m.
Agent: into cleveland at three nineteen p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: uh you're connecting there with us air flight five ninety three (leaving
speaker: five) five ninety three?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: leaving Cleveland
Agent: leaving cleveland at four ten p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and getting into syracuse at five eleven p.m.
speaker: ?? ok
Agent: we have you returning on the seventeenth of september on us air flight
Agent: five zero seven
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: out of syracuse at seven fifty five a.m. into pittsburg at nine oh five a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: connecting to us air flight thirty one
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: leaving pittsburg at nine forty five a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and getting into san francisco at eleven fifty three a.m.
speaker: all right ok that's good
Agent: fare on this is three hundred and ninety eight dollars
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: it is totally non refundable
speaker: ok great ok ok I think we're all set right?
speaker: ok thank you
Agent: sure thing
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: american express a speaking
speaker: Hi A.  B C again
Agent: hi mr. c
speaker: I uh wanted to check to see if it was possible to reput me back on that
speaker: two twenty nine flight
Agent: uhhh one second here. i'm showing that flight as being sold out completely
speaker: sold out completely ok well keep me where I am then
Agent: all righty
speaker: ok thanks
Agent: sure thing
speaker: (bye
Agent: bye)
Agent: -----
Agent: american express a speaking
speaker: Hi this is B C
Agent: hi b
Agent: ok how can i help you
speaker: um Doctor D  spelled D like in [spelling] is interested in
speaker: the cost of a flight on Delta airlines on July fourteenth which is a Friday
speaker: and he needs to leave early in the morning and he doesn't know a flight
speaker: number or a time
Agent: ok where's he going from to?
speaker: He's going from San Francisco to Tampa's um Saint Pete's
Agent: uh huh ok delta has a flight at seven oh five a.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: that connects through
Agent: dallas that would get him in to tampa at four thirty five p.m.
speaker: at four thirty five?
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: ok
Agent: and they have another flight at eight twenty five a.m. that connects
Agent: through atlanta which would get in at six ten, fare is gonna be a
Agent: lot higher for that one
speaker: which one the (the
Agent: for the eight) twenty five a.m. departure
speaker: oh never mind then cause we're looking for the cheapest way
Agent: ok. what day's he returning?
speaker: the sixteenth that's a Sunday
Agent: ok and about what time on the sixteenth?
speaker: and he said around six p.m.
Agent: ok one second. doing a little pricing now, i'll take just a second longer
speaker: all right
Agent: you said by the lowest fare available you- we are talking like a non
Agent: refundable fare correct? that would be uh something in the range of
Agent: four hundred to four hundred and ten dollars round trip
speaker: four ten round trip
Agent: uh huh
speaker: ok now I want to ask you something else
Agent: now to tell you for the times on that keeping him on delta coming back
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: i'd have to keep him for that kind of fare i would have to keep him on
Agent: the same fl- airline coming back as i sent him out on
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: te- uh delta their last flight would be at four thirty five p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: in co- connecting through dallas would get in at eight forty there are
Agent: later flights but not on delta
speaker: ok that's fine uh he got some information from this conference he's going to
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and they have said that uh they they recommended somebody down in Saint
speaker: Petersburg Beach, calling somebody down there to get a forty percent
speaker: off a a domestic round trip coach fare
Agent: mm hmm well just to let you know what the coach fare is there
speaker: yeah
Agent: one second normally the conference rates do offer some discount like that
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: but it's not as usually as good as taking the uh the penalty fare
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: coach fare is one thousand sixty dollars
speaker: mmmm!
Agent: uh so sixty percent of that would be
speaker: six hundred and thirty six dollars
Agent: six hundred and thirty six dollars
speaker: yeah uh huh.  ok and it I they also included here a Delta file code number
Agent: uh huh
Agent: we we can use that if you want to go ahead for the conference rate
speaker: we can
Agent: i i would need that code number to apply for that conference rate
speaker: ok but then that's two hundred dollars more than this non refundable
Agent: it is true there is no penalty attached to the conference rate
speaker: uh huh
Agent: uh whereas th- this non refundable is non refundable but if it's you know
Agent: it is two hundred dollars more if he can ah go with the penalty he's
Agent: going to come out ahead with the um the non conference rate
speaker: but I could I could still give you this Delta file code number and and
speaker: I could do it through you instead of having to deal with these people
speaker: down in Saint Petersburg Beach
Agent: that is correct
speaker: ok great well I'm going to throw this past him and I'll get back to you
speaker: later today
Agent: ok now
speaker: thank you
Agent: sure thing
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: uh for whom?
speaker: um for me I wanted to know how much it would be for a one way ticket to
speaker: Las Vegas
Agent: to las vegas on what date
speaker: on the thirtieth
Agent: the thirtieth of june?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: out of san francisco?
speaker: yes
Agent: one second. and that's a friday were you looking at leaving after work
Agent: around five p.m.ish or something
speaker: um yeah whichever's cheaper
Agent: ok one second
Agent: are you only going one way or do you have transportation returning?
speaker: um I'd like to find out the one the one way and the round trip
Agent: ok. ok ah the lowest one way fare out of san francisco would be on united
Agent: at two o- two hundred and five dollars one way that's with a twenty
Agent: five percent penalty
speaker: mm
Agent: it's pretty expensive i think it's a little better out of san jose let
Agent: me give you the fare on that
speaker: ok
Agent: ok the lowest one way fare out of san jose is pricing out at one hundred
Agent: and sixty five dollars
speaker: is there um
Agent: there's it it's cheaper actually if it's almost the same price if you go
Agent: round trip
speaker: round trip
Agent: um for instance i can get you a one hundred and fifty eight dollar twenty
Agent: five percent penalty round trip fare out of san jose
speaker: yeah that sounds good
Agent: ah and san jose is a little better market for going into las vegas than
Agent: san francisco is
speaker: ok and what time would the plane be leaving?
Agent: ok one second here
Agent: ok i've got departures now looking at specific flight times the fares
Agent: are looking a little more sold out than than what i was quoting you ah
Agent: the best one for farewise would be a america west flight at two ten p.m.
Agent: out of san jose at two ten into las vegas at three twenty
speaker: and how much is that one?
Agent: ok would that just on a one way fare?
speaker: round trip
Agent: ok and returning about what date?
speaker: um it would be on the the fifth
Agent: the fifth of july?
speaker: no the fourth I'm sorry.  (that evening
Agent: the fourth) ok
Agent: the very best fare i can get you is a hundred and thirty eight dollars
Agent: uh on- round trip and that is a non refundable fare that's leaving on
Agent: the thirtieth at two ten p.m. on america west returning on the fourth
Agent: at one oh five p.m. if i bring you back at four thirty five p.m. on
Agent: america west i can get you ah a still a non refundable fare but it
Agent: would be a hundred and fifty three dollars round trip
speaker: ok uh the one thirty eight's good
Agent: one thirty eight at one oh five p.m.?
speaker: ah huh
Agent: ok do you want uh me to make those reservations for you
speaker: yes please
Agent: ok we have you on amer- confirmed on america west flight eighty eight
speaker: (uh huh
Agent: and this is) on the thirtieth of june out of san jose at two ten p.m.
Agent: into las vegas at three twenty p.m.
speaker: three twenty
Agent: returning on the fourth of july on america west flight eight eight five
speaker: eight eight five
Agent: leaving las vegas at one oh five p.m. and getting back into san jose at
Agent: two twenty p.m. the fare on this is one hundred and thirty eight dollars
Agent: it you do have y- you have to ticket this in order for this reservation
Agent: to remain intact
speaker: uh huh
Agent: by the end of tomorrow
speaker: ok well I can do it right now actually uh
speaker: ok thank you
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
speaker: Good morning, A
Agent: good morning mr. b this is c with american express returning
Agent: your call
speaker: ah I need to know some prices ah to compare against subcontract
Agent: ok
speaker: ah  I need to go in from San Francisco to Wild Wood, New Jersey and return
Agent: ok let me check where wild wood is here
speaker: that's near Atlantic City
Agent: ok one second. ok yeah we don't have commercial flights going into
Agent: wild wood cape may. what would be the closest would be atlantic city
speaker: ok
Agent: and let me see
speaker: I need a full coach
Agent: full coach ok one second
Agent: ok full coach would be five eighty six each direction
speaker: ok next one is simple from 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: SFO to Washington D.C. and return
Agent: ok again full coach would be five hundred and thirty one dollars each
Agent: direction
speaker: ok.  and last one, you got me exactly where it is, it's Tok, Alaska t o k
Agent: t o k?
speaker: Yeah, my guess is it's near the ?? or Juno
Agent: it's in the same time zone as juno's in
speaker: ok then why don't you give me the ah the price for ah, oh it's two
speaker: hundred eight miles southeast of Fairbanks
Agent: ok one second
speaker: for me so I guess what we've got to do is uh figure into Fairbanks
Agent: let me look there hold on just a second
speaker: now you know ( where it is
Agent: yeah i) i know where it should be but i mean it's on this in this
Agent: atlas and um two hundred and eight miles southeast of fairbanks puts
Agent: it right in the middle of nowhere. fairbanks would be the closest for it.
speaker: ok
Agent: ok one second
speaker: from the sound of it that's about where it belongs
Agent: full y would be four ninety five oh seven each direction for uh to get
Agent: him up to uh
speaker: to Fairbanks
Agent: fa- whoops one second (??
speaker: that does) that sounds low
Agent: yeah anchorage sorry one second
Agent: seven thirty four sixty three each direction
speaker: that sounds more like it
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: you're quite welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: mm bye now
