Agent: this is a at american express can i help you?
speaker: oh yes A this is B
Agent: ok) thanks what can i help you with?
speaker: well C is going to go to Ottawa
Agent: is this for a new reservation?
speaker: yes and I, what I need right now are um choices
Agent: just flight information then?
speaker: right
Agent: ok and what date is he gonna go?
speaker: the twenty second and he needs to be there in time for an evening meeting
speaker: if he can be, say around six o'clock
Agent: let me see here
speaker: twenty second of June did I make that clear?
Agent: yeah a- i assumed that yeah. ah there's nothing really that gets in that
Agent: early. uh air canda has a connection through toronto that leaves san
Agent: francisco at seven fifty a.m. arrives toronto at three thirty five but
Agent: the connection to ottawa doesn't leave until five fifteen getting into
Agent: ottawa at six ten (and
speaker: when)
Agent: that's about the earliest one
speaker: um ok
Agent: other than leaving the evening before. i mean the, you know like just
Agent: after midnight
speaker: so we have one tha- on Air Canada that goes to Toronto huh?
Agent: right and then it's a change of planes there but it doesn't arrive into
Agent: ottawa until six ten
speaker: let me take all that down anyway ok I guess it's too, at what time does it
speaker: get to Toronto?
Agent: ah three thirty five p.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and departs there at five fifteen. do you want the flight numbers on these?
speaker: right uh huh
Agent: uh the first one is air canada flight seven fifty eight
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: the connection is flight four sixty
speaker: uh huh.  and it arrives Ottawa
Agent: at six ten p.m.
speaker: all right do you have any that get in- into ah Ottawa later in the evening?
Agent: ah yes one second
speaker: ge- are there any direct flights at all?
Agent: ah only if there's an overnight direct flight on piedmont but it leaves
Agent: leaves the night before at eleven forty p.m.
speaker: let me see I'm writing this down.  that's Piedmont what
Agent: ah flight twelve fifty it really isn't worth considering i just noticed
Agent: it makes three (stops
speaker: no) no
Agent: i mean it's direct in that it's the same plane all the way through but
Agent: ( it's ??
speaker: ??) going to take him all night
Agent: there are no non stop flights (um
speaker: that's) what I was wondering ok
Agent: there's a cp air f- uh connection through vancouver it get's in later it
Agent: leaves at nine ten a.m. and arrives vancouver (at
speaker: what) is CP Air?
Agent: it's a canadian airline like air canada it's
speaker: and it flies out of San Francisco?
Agent: uh huh
speaker: huh what's that number then?
Agent: uh it's cp air flight one forty
speaker: one forty
Agent: it's out of san francisco at nine ten a.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: arrives vancouver at eleven thirteen a.m. it connects to cp air flight
Agent: seven twenty two
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: that leaves vancouver at one p.m. and arrives ottawa at nine forty eight
Agent: p.m. that does make one stop between vancouver and ottawa
speaker: where does it stop?
Agent: let's see. looks like calgary
speaker: like Calgary ok
Agent: yeah, calgary
speaker: all right then coming back if if you ha- do you have a late flight out on the
speaker: twenty third.  probably not huh?
Agent: well let me see. we might cause the time zone's in our v- our favor
Agent: coming (this direction
speaker: uh huh) he said either l- late on the twenty third or or any time on the
speaker: twenty fourth
Agent: ok. by late he means something like nine ten like that?
Agent: cause there's an eight p.m. departure
speaker: tha- ah I think that's (that's
Agent: would) that be good?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: ok there's an eight p.m. departure on air canada it's flight four sixty
Agent: seven it arrives into toronto at eight fifty five connects to air canada
Agent: flight seven fifty five that's out of toronto at ten thirty p.m. and
Agent: arrives san francisco at twelve forty five a.m. on the twenty fourth
speaker: no I'm it leaves Ottawa four sixty seven leaves Ottawa at what time?
Agent: eight p.m.
speaker: eight p.m.  and arrives at Toronto
Agent: eight fifty five
speaker: eight fifty five. and leaves Toronto at ten thirty?
Agent: right
speaker: (and arrives
Agent: seven fifty) five does
speaker: mm huh
Agent: and arrives san francisco at twelve forty five a.m.
speaker: ok and then what about Saturday a flight next Saturday?
Agent: yeah one second. uh there's an early air canada connection through toronto
Agent: again
speaker: uh huh
Agent: it's uh flight one eighty nine out of ottawa at six fifty a.m. arrives
Agent: toronto at seven forty seven a.m.
speaker: mmm hmm
Agent: connects to air canada flight seven fifty seven
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: out of toronto at nine thirty a.m.
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: and arrives san francisco at eleven forty five a.m.
speaker: all right I think tha- this is enough for him to consider
Agent: ok
speaker: for the time being  and I'll get back with you
Agent: ok great
speaker: all right thank you ( very much
Agent: thanks a lot)
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: this is a at american express may i help you?
speaker: A this is B
Agent: ok what can i help you with b?
speaker: ok my the traveller is C [spells name]
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: first name is CC
Agent: ok what does he need to do?
speaker: ok it's for ah the outbound would be on June seventeenth
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and it's on US Air flight two seven eight two and I believe it's departing
speaker: at twelve twenty five p.m.
Agent: going where?
speaker: Orange County
Agent: two twenty five p.m.?
speaker: yes, uh twelve twenty five sorry
Agent: ok us air flight twenty seven eighty two?
speaker: mm yeah
Agent: ok (got that
speaker: that right? ok) now this traveller is making uh, this is something out of the
speaker: ordinary now it says reservations for CC and his wife and
Agent: yeah, let me make c's reservation
Agent: and then i'll have to call us air to find out if if we're allowed to make
Agent: her reservations sometimes you have to make it directly with the airline
speaker: oh
Agent: and if we can make it i'll go ahead and do it
speaker: oh ok
Agent: ok otherwise you'll have to call us air
speaker: oh I see all right now coming back on June twentieth
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: uh  let's see five ten p.m. out of Burbank and this is on US Air two five
speaker: one one and again this return flight will be for CC and his wife 
Agent: right n- yeah, i know
speaker: you'll have to check that one too
Agent: no i'll check the whole thing yeah
speaker: mmm
Agent: what's his wife's name?
speaker: ah huh
Agent: yeah we have enough advance purchase time that i can get a nonrefundable
Agent: fare on the return would bring that portion down to twenty nine dollars
Agent: one way but i'd have to t- issue the tickets today
speaker: no give them the non restricted air fare (I think it's one ninety eight
Agent: non restrictive air fare) one ninety eight right
Agent: ok sure
speaker: bye
Agent: bye bye b
Agent: -----
Agent: hi this is a at american express may i help you?
speaker: hi A this is B Physical Sciences Business Office at uh WWW
Agent: yeah and uh what can i help you with?
speaker: uh I need to know uh business class round trip uh fare for ah San Francisco
speaker: to ah Baron, Switzerland
Agent: sure one second. is this for a proposal?
speaker: right
Agent: i'm checking a couple different carriers just to compare them before i give
Agent: you the fare on this
speaker: ok
Agent: i seem to have a very slow computer here
speaker: ok that's all right
Agent: well i have one fare let me give you that and i'm just trying to see if i
Agent: can verify it on another carrier
speaker: ok
Agent: uh one way fare would be fifteen sixty seven
speaker: w- round trip?
Agent: the round trip would be that times two plus thirteen for taxes
speaker: ok
Agent: ah it looks like approximately right uh using twa instead of american i get
Agent: fifteen eighty nine a little bit higher
speaker: ok
Agent: so it's it's in that ballpark (??
speaker: ok fifteen) fifty seven times two plus thirteen
Agent: there isn't any one carrier that flies all the way in there you need
Agent: to connect somewhere like from twa to air france or pan am to air france
Agent: or something to get in to baron
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and also you can't get business class all the way through but they fare
Agent: it business class all the way
speaker: ok
Agent: you you you would get business class from the us to your european gateway
Agent: city and then for the little hop to baron you would probably be in coach
speaker: yeah ok
Agent: ok
speaker: that helps
Agent: ok great
speaker: thanks a lot
Agent: you're welcome (bye bye
speaker: bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: This is for B
Agent: ok, what is she doing?
speaker: ok, on the uh thirty first of may
Agent: uh huh
speaker: out of SFO to DFW on American thirteen hundred leaving at eleven am
Agent: ok i've got that it arrives at four twenty three into dallas?
speaker: right
Agent: ok and then a return?
speaker: returning on the first of june
Agent: uh huh
speaker: departing DFW at six forty pm on American three eight nine
Agent: okay, let me see what sort of fare i can get on that
speaker: ok
Agent: the only thing that's going to apply is full coach
speaker: ok
Agent: and that's nine forty six one way
speaker: ok
Agent: i mean round trip, (round trip, sorry
speaker: thanks a lot
Agent: ok, thanks, d
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: a at american express may i help you?
speaker: yeah this is B B I need to make some travel arrangements
Agent: ok and what do you need to do?
speaker: ok on June sixth from San Jose to Denver, United
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: I believe there's one leaving at eleven o'clock in the morning
Agent: yeah that's united flight four seventy
speaker: ok
Agent: leaves at eleven a.m. and arrives denver at two twenty p.m. out of san jose
speaker: that's the one
Agent: and a return?
speaker: return June seventh
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: uh I believe there's one at five sixteen
Agent: yeah that's united flight six fifty nine it arrives back into san jose at
Agent: six forty two
speaker: ok
Agent: let me just see what sort of fare i can get you on this
speaker: all righty
Agent: ok the best fare i can get you on this would be five sixty eight round
Agent: trip. that does have a twenty five percent change cancellation penalty on it
speaker: ok
Agent: and we'd have to ticket it by tuesday
speaker: right that's fine
speaker: ok thank you very much
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: sure
Agent: mm bye
speaker: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express may i help you?
speaker: oh A this is B
Agent: ok wh- how can i help you?
speaker: we have an emergency traveller who is going t- uh
speaker: Copenhagen from San Francisco to Los Angeles and he is going on a two
speaker: o'clock flight.
Agent: he's going to copenhagen today?
speaker: that's correct yes
Agent: it's just a flat one way?
speaker: ah yes that's correct
Agent: in business class?
speaker: ok (??
Agent: yeah we should be able to do it)
Agent: um) one sec let me just
speaker: all right
Agent: start a new reservation for him. what's his last name?
speaker: um C [spells name]
Agent: first name
speaker: D [spells name]
Agent: ok what flights do you want to have him on?
speaker: ok he would like to be on United flight one one one seven
Agent: first of all he's going all the way through to copenhagen?
speaker: oh, that's right uh huh
Agent: and this is a connection in what city?
speaker: ah Los Angeles
Agent: ok
speaker: oh and yeah
Agent: and what time does that united flight leave?
speaker: it's ah going out at uh two o'clock today, SFO to Los Angeles
Agent: and then connecting to sas flight nine thirty two?
speaker: nine thirty two that's right
Agent: and you said well actually the eleven seventeen i'm showing sold out let
Agent: me just look (in their system
speaker: oh no)
Agent: well we can put him there are other flights oh there i can get a seat on it
speaker: oh ok
Agent: ?? it's one of the last ones but i can get it.
Agent: now is he going business class on the sas flight?
speaker: um if he can go business class sure
Agent: they're allowed it for flights over (thirteen hours
speaker: certainly oh) ok great that's fine
Agent: and this is just going to be one way only right?
speaker: that's correct
Agent: ok b so i have him on united flight eleven seventeen on today friday
Agent: the twenty sixth out of san francisco at two p.m.
speaker: right
Agent: arriving lax at three fifteen p.m.
speaker: uh huh
Agent: connecting to sas flight nine thirty two
speaker: right 
Agent: out of lax at five thirty p.m. it arrives copenhagen at one oh five p.m. on
Agent: the twenty seventh of may
speaker: yes (that's wonderf-
Agent: that's) on request and that's already confirmed so that's (great
speaker: that's) just absolutely marvelous and I am wondering now if we can we add
speaker: another leg to that uh
Agent: what do you want to do?
speaker: um we would like on Monday which would be uh let's see the twenty ninth the
speaker: holiday
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: May twenty ninth from Copenhagen to uh Sandestrom
Agent: ok
speaker: and that would be uh SAS flight two nine one and that is a ten thirty a.m.
speaker: departure
Agent: ok no- this adds a fare that isn't in my system
speaker: oh
Agent: so if we do that i'm going to have to send it off to the airlines for
Agent: faring and i can't guarantee how fast they'll come back with a fare
speaker: y- exactly yes I understand. ok that's great and you did make the
speaker: reservation for the uh Monday five twenty nine flight was that possible
speaker: to go on flight two nine one from Copenhagen?
Agent: yeah i haven't confirmed it yet but i've just (got it
speaker: oh ok)
Agent: requested. one second
speaker: sure
Agent: yes b that's that's confirmed now
speaker: oh ok
Agent: so we'll just ticket as far as copenhagen and he'll deal with the rest
Agent: in denmark then
speaker: uh 
Agent: is that what you want to do?
speaker: all right
Agent: you know if it's not back within an hour we'll just ticket him as far as
Agent: copenhagen
speaker: good
Agent: how's that?
speaker: all right
Agent: ok
speaker: good bye
Agent: sure, bye bye
