Agent: this is b speaking
speaker: hello I'd like to make plans for a round trip from San Jose to Buffalo
Agent: ok ah what's your last name?
speaker: BB b as in boy
Agent: mhm
speaker: [spells name]
Agent: and what day did you want to travel
speaker: well I'm completely flexible 
Agent: uh huh
speaker: uh almost completely flexible in regard to that uh either I want to
speaker: first of all economy is the first consideration.  I want to go there for
speaker: two or three days preferably over a weekend
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: preferably in July
Agent: ok any preference as to weekend?
speaker: um not too much if I could go the weekend of the fifteenth.  for example
speaker: le- leave Thursday or Friday and come back on the following
Agent: this was a round trip to buffalo you said?
speaker: round trip to Buffalo
Agent: ok one second here
Agent: ok you said leaving on a thursday and returning on a sunday or a monday?
speaker: yeah whatever whatever's cheaper (I know there's some 
Agent: whatever's cheaper)
speaker: catch there you have to stay over Saturday (night
Agent: ?? you stay over saturday night) is correct
Agent: ok um the lowest fare i'm going to be able to find for you would be
Agent: three ninety eight if and that's totally non refundable if you leave
Agent: be- after twelve noon on thursday and return prior to twelve noon on
Agent: monday. the lowest fare travelling uh prior to twelve noon on thursday
Agent: and returning after twelve noon on monday would be three fifty eight,
Agent: difference of forty dollars
speaker: three fifty eight
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: wh- what was three ninety eight?
Agent: three ninety eight is if you travel after twelve noon on thursday so if
Agent: you were going to leave thursday night and come back say monday uh sunday
Agent: the fare would be three ninety eight
speaker: and when would it be three fifty eight?
Agent: three fifty eight if you were to leave thursday morning and come back
Agent: thu- on monday afternoon
speaker: ok that that sounds good the three fifty eight
Agent: three fifty eight ok. one second here. can i put you on hold a second?
speaker: ok h-
Agent: be, be right back with you here
speaker: ok
Agent: back with you here
speaker: I ha- I  had one other question when
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: when you find that, would it be cheaper to go the following weekend than
speaker: it is the weekend of the twenty second
Agent: ok
speaker: cause I know sometimes there's a a two week criteria there
Agent: that's what's happening right now. hold on a second today,
Agent: hmm it's not giving me the fare i want. we meet all the conditions
Agent: i'm just looking at the rules here to figure out why. oh i see ok.
Agent: ok there i got it yeah we do have to put it off to the following week
Agent: to get those four full fourteen days here (and
speaker: ok)
Agent: uh i can get it on american or united right off uh if you have a
Agent: preference to airlines
speaker: ah
Agent: i found that the american lets you sleep in a little bit longer than
Agent: united did on the outbound flight uh i could get you on an eight
Agent: thirty seven flight out of san francisco on the twentieth versus something
Agent: closer to about six fiftyish on united
speaker: ok um do any of those go out of San Jose
Agent: um let me check here what we can do there
Agent: ok i can get you a good ah fare out of on american the same three hundred
Agent: and fifty eight dollar fare. there's a direct flight out of san jose on
Agent: american leaves at eight fifty a.m. out of san jose gets into buffalo at
Agent: six at six thirty three p.m. it does stop down in chicago but you would
Agent: not get off the plane.
speaker: ok 
Agent: and then returning on the twenty fourth there's an american flight that
Agent: leaves at five p.m. connects in chicago and uh would get into uh san jose
Agent: at s- nine oh two p.m. i found the flights both on united and american ah
Agent: around the twelve o'clock hour the one o'clock flights we- these fares
Agent: were sold out so a lot of people are ahead of you in in grabbing that fare
speaker: yeah, that's pretty good
Agent: in the early afternoon right
speaker: I'd rather go in the morning anyway ??
Agent: well what i'm saying is returning back coming back from buffalo
speaker: ok
Agent: um i've got a five p.m. flight for you tentatively right now because the
Agent: the one and two o'clock flights are sold out
speaker: on the returning flight I'd rather go as late as possible (so that's good too
Agent: ok) ok
speaker: uh
Agent: now i can get you a se- an earlier morning flight if you'd like out of uh
Agent: san jose
speaker: would it also be direct?
Agent: ah no this was the only direct one that i saw
speaker: ?? ah that's a real attraction
Agent: that's a plus
speaker: I'll stick with that.  the the day let me just get the exact days
Agent: ok this was out on the twentieth of july
speaker: the twentieth is a Thursday
Agent: it's a thursday morning and coming back monday evening
speaker: that's perfect and that's for three fifty eight?
Agent: three fifty eight
speaker: ok
Agent: ok you want to think about that or should we go ahead and book that?
speaker: go go ahead and do it I I got to sort this out once and for all, I've been
speaker: putting it off
Agent: ok now this is a non refundable fare this is a hundred percent penalty no
Agent: returns no changes no cancellations
speaker: ok
Agent: and the other stipulation with this particular fare is that they s- they
Agent: require that we ticket it twenty four hours after we make the reservation
Agent: or the reservation goes is basically disappears
speaker: ok
Agent: um so we would have to ticket this in this in this case today tonight
speaker: go ahead and ticket it now
speaker: could you give me the flight numbers on these?
Agent: sure can on the twentieth of july we have you on american flight one one
Agent: six zero out of san jose at eight fifty a.m. and into buffalo at six
Agent: thirty three p.m. on the twentyfourth of july we have you on american
Agent: flight three ninety three leaving buffalo at five p.m. and getting into
Agent: chicago at five forty p.m. connecting there with american flight one
Agent: zero two nine leaving chicago at six thirty p.m. and getting into san jose
Agent: at nine oh two p.m.
speaker: what was the Buffalo to Chicago flight?
Agent: ah buffalo to chicago flight is three ninety three
speaker: three ninety three
Agent: uh huh (and
speaker: ok)
Agent: all righty you're all set and we'll have this out to you this afternoon
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: you're quite welcome
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
Agent: -----
Agent: american express b speaking
speaker: yes I'd just to make some reservations to go to New York City
Agent: ok and your last name please?
speaker: the last name would be CC [spells name]
Agent: and first name?
speaker: DD [spells part of name]
Agent: ok one second here. is this a business trip or personal?
speaker: ah this is business trip
Agent: and the date you wanted to travel?
speaker: uh that'd be uh July the eighth Saturday
Agent: out of san francisco?
speaker: correct
Agent: and going into which airport?
speaker: uh that would be uh JFK
Agent: and what time of day did you want to tr- fly?
speaker: um let's see um early in the morning and probably possibly arrive
speaker: in New York ah let's say maybe mid to late afternoon
Agent: ok
speaker: I don't know exactly what (the time is
Agent: ok we've got) a special fare with pan am it's a seven hundred dollar round
Agent: trip fare
speaker: uh huh
Agent: which is about two hundred and thirty six dollars cheaper than the other
Agent: airlines
speaker: hmm
Agent: um
Agent: they have a nonstop flight that leaves at eight a.m. and gets in at four
Agent: twenty five p.m.
speaker: ok and that's nonstop correct?
Agent: correct
speaker: hm ok um h- ho- let's see how much lead time do you generally need to get
speaker: like the cheaper flights I'm just curious
Agent: ah let me check here one second
speaker: ok
Agent: if you're looking for a penalty fare like a twenty five percent or a hundred
Agent: percent penalty we would need seven days advance purchase time which
Agent: does qualify
speaker: uh huh
Agent: for a twenty five percent penalty not for the uh hundred percent penalty
speaker: oh I see I see
Agent: uh we could get you hold on a second. i tend to forget when uh you guys are
Agent: going and staying over a saturday night
speaker: yeah
Agent: let me look here. do you have a preference as to airlines?
speaker: um well American or United would be fine
Agent: ok wh- what date are you returning on?
speaker: that would be Sunday the sixteenth
Agent: and time of day?
speaker: um let's see when's the best time
speaker: um hopefully uh let's see if I left New York at let's say maybe around
speaker: two or three o'clock, what time would I get back to San Francisco
Agent: let me see here. it's a matter of finding flights that leave around that
Agent: time. most of them leave early in the morning or later in the afternoon
speaker: ok how much later in the afternoon would that be?
Agent: ah around the five o'clock hour
speaker: ok and if I left at five what time would I arrive?
Agent: you'd get in about nine o'clock
speaker: oh nine o'clock San Francisco time
Agent: mmm hmm yes
speaker: ok yeah that doesn't sound too bad
Agent: ok let me look for an american flight that does that
speaker: ok
Agent: having a hard time finding a non stops uh that match up between airlines
Agent: i've got to keep you on the same airline for that fare
speaker: hmmm (I see
Agent: so) do a little bit of looking around here. right at the moment i'm
Agent: narrowing it down to twa. ok i can get you a four hundred and fifty eight
Agent: dollar fare which has a twenty five percent penalty for changes or refunds
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: uh would have to be ticketed today
speaker: ok
Agent: and it's twa non stop both directions outbound on the eighth of july
Agent: at eight ten a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: into jfk at four thirty
speaker: ok arrives at four thirty ok
Agent: and returning on the sixteenth of july at
Agent: four twenty five p.m. getting into san francisco at seven thirty p.m.
speaker: seven thirty p.m. ok so you're saying like American United there's no other
speaker: flight that had that same type of connection huh?
Agent: uh looking for not keeping you just on non stops uh i could not find one
Agent: where the return umm i couldn't find that fare
speaker: uh huh
Agent: available on both the going and the coming back on those particular dates
Agent: at those times that you're requesting
speaker: I see ok
Agent: i could put you on connection flights around those times
speaker: uh huh
Agent: but that really does a a it adds a couple hours to your trip
speaker: exactly now that's at the twenty five percent right uh
Agent: correct
speaker: ref- wh- what's the one hundred o- or what's the hundred percent?
Agent: you would need fourteen days advance purchase time in order to get that
speaker: oh I see ok ok great um yeah ok that flight sounds fine then
Agent: you want to go with that twa?
speaker: right
Agent: ok (that's
speaker: what's the)
Agent: twa flight eight forty two
speaker: eight forty two
Agent: on the eighth of july out of san francisco at eight ten a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: into jfk at four thirty p.m.
speaker: right
Agent: and returning on the sixteenth of july and that's twa flight eight oh three
speaker: ok
Agent: leaving jfk at four twenty five getting into san francisco at seven thirty
speaker: seven thirty p.m.
Agent: the fare is four hundred and tw- fifty eight dollars
speaker: ok
Agent: and it does have a twenty five percent penalty
speaker: ok
Agent: you're all set
speaker: ok fantastic
speaker: thank you very much
Agent: thank you very much
speaker: bye
Agent: bye now
