Agent: american express may i help you
speaker: yes this is A. B. and I'd like to make some travel reservations
speaker: ...
Agent: ok and what do you need to do
speaker: ok in August I need to go to Southbend, Indiana and I want to go on United via Chicago
Agent: ok one second ok and what time did you want to leave
speaker: ok there's uh I want to go from Chicago to Southbend on I believe it's United Express two six eight six
Agent: ok yeah that leaves at four fifty
speaker: four fifty arrives five twenty four
Agent: right there's a ten a.m. flight out of san francisc that connects fairly well with that
speaker: ah h-  h-  how close is that
Agent: uh it's flight one twenty six leaves at ten a.m. gets into chicago at three fifty eight so
speaker: yeah
Agent: it's a little less than an hour
speaker: yeah tha- tha- that sounds good
Agent: ok
speaker: is is there one one that gets there just a little bit earlier
Agent: um
speaker: in case of any problems
Agent: the next one earlier leaves at six fifty and gets there at one oh five which is an awfully long wait
speaker: no no ok) so so b- book me on that then
Agent: ok
speaker: can you give me that again
Agent: uh huh yeah it's united flight twent- uh one twenty six out of san francisco at ten a.m. and arrives chicago at three fifty eight and then connecting to a united flight six eighty six out of chicago at four fifty arriving southbend at five twenty four
speaker: exactly
Agent: and then a return for you
speaker: a return I'm leaving August nine
Agent: back to san francisco
speaker: yeah but from Chicago
Agent: oh you're going to get your own way between (southbend and chicago
speaker: yeah yeah yeah)
Agent: ok and when did you want to leave chicago
speaker: I want to leave uh Chicago some where around five p.m.
Agent: ah united also
Agent: ok there's a four (fifty p.m.
speaker: that sounds) good
Agent: ok and a five fifty nine
speaker: uh four fifty sounds good
Agent: ok that's united flight one seventy five it leaves four fifty p.m. and arrives san francisco at seven oh eight p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: did you need any hotels for this
speaker: no I don't need any hotels I'm I'm all set (on everything
Agent: do you need) a car
speaker: ah no I'll I'll I need a car in uh well I'll I'll worry about the car in Southbend myself
Agent: ok that's fine
Agent: and uh do you have my frequent flyer number
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
speaker: and what about United Express twenty six eighty six I'm I'm all set on that one
Agent: ah yeah you're confirmed on that one
speaker: ok now just one more thing eh if I happen to miss a flight is there a later one going into Southbend or am I screwed
Agent: let me see
Agent: the next later flight's american at five twenty but (then
speaker: ok so)
Agent: there's a united at six twenty six
speaker: ok so there are options
Agent: yes
speaker: ok
Agent: very good
speaker: ok great
speaker: so I'm all set then
Agent: uh huh thank you i'll have the ticket's over to you today
speaker: well no no I don't need the tickets today
Agent: oh ok well
speaker: no
Agent: i'll go ahead and run them generally she'll call you if you don't want to pick them up right away that's fine
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
speaker: ok
Agent: thank you very much
speaker: thank you much
Agent: bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express may i help you
speaker: yes A. this is B. I'm calling about a trip for C.D.
speaker: ...
speaker: all right now this is his Montreal trip and that's on Monday
Agent: ok i see it here uh huh
speaker: ok and he needs to go to Montreal 
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: and I understand another group has made the reservations so I need to get the information on that
Agent: just the information about what we have
speaker: yes uh huh
Agent: ok he's on american flight two sixty two
speaker: two six two
Agent: out of san francisco at eleven fifty five p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: arriving chicago at five fifty six a.m. on the twenty fifth
speaker: on the tw- I'm sorry the time again
Agent: five fifty six a.m.
speaker: five fifty six
Agent: on the twenty fifth of july
speaker: ok
Agent: connecting to american flight six ninety six
Agent: that's out of chicago at seven ten a.m. and arrives montreal at ten oh eight a.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: on his return it's tuesday the twenty fifth
speaker: uh huh
Agent: american flight one fifty three
speaker: ok
Agent: out of montreal at eight oh three p.m.
speaker: Wait a minute that's an American flight out of
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: I missed
speaker: these are all (American
Agent: these are all american
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok
Agent: out of montreal at eight oh three p.m.
speaker: three uh huh 
Agent: arrives chicago at nine thirteen p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: and connects to flight four fifty seven
speaker: mm hmm
speaker: that's out of Chicago at nine fifty p.m.
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: and arrives san francisco at twelve twenty three a.m. on the twenty sixth so just after midnight
speaker: ok good
Agent: and are we going to be doing the ticketing on these then or is someone else going to be ticketing it
Agent: ... [break in transcript]
Agent: thanks very much a.
speaker: ok thank ( you
Agent: ok) bye bye
speaker: mm bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: I have a travel for uh scheduled leaving leaving on Monday
Agent: uh huh
speaker: to Dallas and I need to make a change
Agent: ok sure let me pull it up here
Agent: ok i've got it
speaker: ah ok turns out I will be coming back to San Francisco as opposed to going to Chicago
Agent: ok
speaker: so
Agent: on wednsday then
Agent: correct the twenty sixth and there's a united flight nine twenty seven dallas to denver and then connecting to san francisco flight two ninety seven
speaker: when does that leave
Agent: uh it leaves six forty to dallas eight forty two from denver
Agent: yeah flight nine twenty seven dallas to denver leaving at six forty arriving nine
speaker: yeah
Agent: and then united flight two ninety seven denver to san francisco leaving at eight forty two or arriving el- ten eleven
speaker: correct uh  now that we've got all that and just trying to think it would be wh- what happens to the cost if I change and leave from Oakland 
Agent: .... [break in transcript]
Agent: it would have to be on am- on united
speaker: ah I prefer that
speaker: ok let me I'll do it that way
Agent: ah looks like oakland doesn't fly that way
Agent: it looks like it would be slightly cheaper out of oakland but you would have to connect going to dallas there's no non stops
speaker: hmm
Agent: ah there's a two twenty five connection through denver that gets into dallas at like nine thirty around nine thirty in the evening coming back you could take the same six forty flight it just connects to another flight to oakland rather then to san francisco it's at nine fifty nine
speaker: yeah what I really need to do is check with my wife to see if she can pick me up
Agent: ah (lets
speaker: uh)
Agent: uh huh
speaker: l- l- let's book it through ah San Francisco and if if I need to change I'll get back to you as soon as I can
Agent: ok otherwise do you want me to set up for a new ticket to be run for you because you sh- should have a new ticket
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: and will you cancel the then both the flight to chicago and the flight from chicago
speaker: I already have and everything in Chicago
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: ok I I had what's what's the total cost on that then
Agent: nine forty six out of sa- san francisco nine twenty four out of oakland
speaker: ok and is it less be- on on the way back because of the stop
Agent: ah i don't believe so i think it's just different fares you know oakland has slightly different fares to dallas than
speaker: m ok
speaker: than you know San Francisco does
Agent: y- yeah it turns out there's an earlier united flight a three forty- it leaves at three forty three flight four four nine
speaker: coming back you mean
Agent: yeah
speaker: although that stops someplace too doesn't it
Agent: let me check
Agent: two forty three that is a one stop flight yes
speaker: yes
Agent: see where it stops it stops in denver
speaker: Denver 
Agent: or arrives at four forty five and departs again at five forty one
Agent: so a little over an hour
speaker: I don't think I can make it to that one so let's let's leave it the way we have it
speaker: and and and I will call back to confirm 
Agent: ok right i won't ticket without your approval on it
speaker: ok
Agent: ok
speaker: thank you very much A.
Agent: thank you
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: ??agency services this is a. speaking
speaker: yeah hi A. this is B. at American Express
Agent: hi b.
speaker: could you pull up a reservation for me please
Agent: certainly
Agent: it's flight nine twenty seven on the twenty sixth of july dallas to
Agent: denver and the last name is c. [spells name]
speaker: a which is this D.
Agent: right d.
speaker: ok
speaker: ah I want to see if I can get seats for him on those flights nonsmoking aisles if possible
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
speaker: great thank you very much for your help
Agent: thank you
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye
Agent: -----
speaker: I wanted to uh um get a flight um to Los Angeles and back uh leaving on Friday uh 
Agent: ok who am i speaking with
speaker: ah this is A.B.
speaker: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: ok all right i'm sorry your last name is
speaker: ah B. [spells name]
Agent: ok and is this a business trip we're doing
speaker: no
speaker: this is personal
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: ok and the date you wanted to go to los angeles is
speaker: uh Friday July twenty eighth
Agent: from san francisco or san jose
speaker: v
speaker: um whichever's cheaper
speaker: and I wanted to return on Monday July thirty first
Agent: a- a- when afternoon er
speaker: ah actually
speaker: ??
speaker: ah yeah um evening would be fine
Agent: ok i think i'm going to check the fare should be the same out of either airport let me just check here
Agent: ok it's it's going to be the same airfare out out of ei- either airport
speaker: ok
Agent: it's ninety eight round trip
speaker: it's going to be ninety eight for round trip
Agent: ninety eight round trip on a non refundable non changable ticket
speaker: ah would it have been cheaper if I had called a couple weeks in advance
Agent: ah twenty one days in advance there lower fares into los angeles
speaker: and how much is that
Agent: uh let me check here
Agent: those are seventy eight round trip
speaker: hmm ok um well um I guess ninety eight's ok then
speaker: ah would the price have gone up if I had called just a couple days in advance
Agent: yes
speaker: ok
Agent: airfare you have to have at least a seven day advance purchase
speaker: oh
Agent: for the ninety eight and that's today's the last day to buy it for the twenty eigth and it would have gone up to one eighteen and then it would have gone up to ah one forty eight one way well they have a ninety eight one way and then a one forty eight one way
speaker: ouch
Agent: so it jumps up pretty high
speaker: yeah ok um well that would be fine then um see the time on Friday that I'd like to depart would be evening um preferably around seven o'clock
Agent: if you could leave at like on ein the morning i could get you a low airfare they only have one flight a day
speaker: oh really
Agent: now let me just let me check their times and i'll tell you what now going out isn't bad it's coming back that's bad
Agent: ok they have fare of sixty eight round trip
speaker: really
Agent: going out it's a nine p.m. arrinvind ten fifteen p.m. coming back it's one oh five in the morning getting in at two twenty in the morning
speaker: that's fine
Agent: you want to do that
speaker: for sixty eight dollars
Agent: sixty eight dollars nonrefundable non changable today's the deadline for for buying that ticket
speaker: ok now you were saying that it leaves on Friday when
Agent: ok friday it's a nine p.m. arriving ten fifteen
speaker: ok that
Agent: and coming back it's a one oh five in the morning
speaker: one oh five on Tuesday morning
Agent: yeah ah let me see the table on tuesday hold on for the first of august
Agent: ok it is available on tuesday morning at one oh five in the morning getting into san francisco at two twenty in the morning
speaker: ok
Agent: you want to book that
speaker: yeah that sounds just perfect actually um so the departure time is nine o'clock on Friday
Agent: yes
speaker: is that is that the only departure time
Agent: they only have one flight a day that's it that's all they have
speaker: ok
Agent: ok that's why their fare is lower then everyone else's they only have they don't have any competition they have one flight um it's continental eight two four on the twenty eighth of july departing san francisco nine p.m. arriving los angeles ten fifteen p.m. continental one three three on the first of august tuesday departing los angeles one oh five a.m. arrivng san franciscso two twenty a.m.
speaker: two twenty (ok
speaker: uh huh)
Agent: is this going to be put on a credit card
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: ok so this ticket is non refundable non changable and today is the deadline for ticketing
Agent: ...[break in transcript]
Agent: ok
speaker: that sounds good
Agent: all right
speaker: thanks
Agent: thansk for calling
speaker: bye bye
Agent: bye
