speaker: Hello
Agent: hi this is a with american express travel
speaker: Yes I spoke to you 'bout twenty minutes ago about uh Japan around the world
Agent: oh right
speaker: Can you tell me what it costs for Business Class fo- for uhh round trip
speaker: Japan verses Business Class uh ?? around the world's flight
Agent: ok i don't know if they offer i don't think they offer a business uh class
Agent: around the world. it has to be economy
Agent: ok i found out umm restrictions also as far as you're inquiring about
Agent: penalties and stuff
speaker: Ok
Agent: umm ok san francisco tokyo uhh fare quote for business round trip would be
Agent: twenty one fourteen. and again the coach was seventeen fourteen. and then
Agent: for the twenty ninety nine that was economy but there it is also offered
Agent: for business. and first class the business around the world fare would be
Agent: twenty nine ninety nine and first class thirty nine ninety nine. and that's,
Agent: again the same of of applications of four stop overs uh for minimum maximum
Agent: of fifteen. and the purchase restrictions were twenty one days in advance
Agent: cancellation within ah or longer then twenty one days prior to the departure
Agent: you get a
Agent: full refund, within twenty one days of the flight it's twenty five percent
Agent: penalty, umm attached to all all of those fares, economy, business and first
Agent: and if umm bu- in case of illness or death or anything like that it is uh
Agent: waivable, the twenty five percent
speaker: But that even) applies to these apex and stuff
Agent: oh yeah
speaker: Ok
Agent: yeah it applies to any type of fare
speaker: Ok well thanks for that information I (don't think
Agent: sure)
speaker: I'd be interested in the business class.  it costs more than I thought, but
speaker: the guy I'm going with will be flying business and I'll be sitting in the
speaker: (back of the plane
Agent: oh)
speaker: with the cheaper cheap fare
Agent: yeah there you go. ok
speaker: Th- thanks for your help
Agent: sure bye bye
speaker: Bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: good afternoon american express this is a
speaker: A uh this is B again and I talked to C. D. again
Agent: mhm
speaker: About going from Hong Kong to Moscow. umm he made me feel like their had to
speaker: be some other options besides going through Heathrow
Agent: ok (uh
speaker: There) had to be several different cities you can go through like Beijing,
speaker: to Helsinki, there has to be some other options (??
Agent: umm ok well on, what i do is i ask for connections er flights from hong kong
Agent: to moscow and that's what it's giving me as available connections
speaker: (Ok
Agent: it's) giving me all the legal connections available and that's what i'm
Agent: getting is through heathrow (??
speaker: Okay, so i-) if somebody was in some other city and wanted to go to Moscow
speaker: there has to be other options doesn't (there
Agent: oh) i see what you mean departing from a different city rather than (hong
Agent: kong,
speaker: Yeah)
Agent: oh sure
speaker: Sa- i- t- Helsinki and also there has to be some other airlines too ah
speaker: that are flying into Moscow besides, you only gave me (British Airways
Agent: well) well, because of the connections, see from hong kong to moscow there
Agent: are other, what i, ok (this is ?? the entire day
speaker: you you what you did was you gave me) you gave me the best (situation
Agent: right) and for the entire day for i picked on th- on the twenty fourth of
Agent: june umm th- the entire day we've got the first thing that that comes up is
Agent: that nine thirty pm flight (otherwise
speaker: Are we) saying that maybe uh that something was filled, I mean there is another
speaker: option that we wouldn't ( be aware of
Agent: no) no
speaker: Oh ok
Agent: if it was sold out it would show it to me
speaker: Ok that's what I was wondering 
Agent: ok yeah, so umm the only other option i have would be a cathay pacific
Agent: flight departing at hong kong at ten fifty five p.m. it arrives into
Agent: london to gatwick airport at four at five fifty five forty excuse me am and
Agent: then he'd connect to a british air flight out of london heathrow airport
Agent: and into th- moscow, so he'd be going into gatwick and leaving out of
Agent: heathrow, meaning he'd (have to get between the two
speaker: Yes, I know I I indicated I said the only) thing that was given to me was
speaker: a flight that goes into He- you know was flights going into Heathrow
Agent: right
speaker: He says, well try Helsinki, try Beijing, you know there has to be some
speaker: other options to getting into Moscow, (so
Agent: ok)
speaker: I I don't know and al also he said there has to be other airlines and I
speaker: he mentioned a couple I I remebered a couple Aer- is it Aeroflight
Agent: nkay lets see
speaker: And Singapore, do- does, Singapore has a airline
Agent: see see this is what, when i ask for for hong kong, thi- that's what i'm
Agent: trying to explain, we could try building our own connection (but
speaker: Yeah)
Agent: when i ask hong kong soviet union that's what it's giving me
speaker: Yeah that's right (now
Agent: yeah)
speaker: uhh perhaps we can build our own like you say
Agent: yeah that's maybe that's what he's talking about or depart from a different
Agent: city. if he wants to go for like a three point connection i mean there are
Agent: three point connections available
speaker: Ok (he
Agent: such as)
speaker: just wants me to get all the options down for him
Agent: ok
speaker: so he can make a desicion
Agent: ok again asking for hong kok to uh
speaker: ??
Agent: moscow there's a (flight
speaker: Let's let's) go to another city first maybe that's what he's trying to say
speaker: un- unless you can find a three point by going to Moscow
Agent: yeah, i can
speaker: Ok
Agent: from hong kong which is eh what i'm saying is that uh the next possibility
Agent: would be hong kong to bangkok
Agent: to heathrow to moscow. that's the next availability that's coming up and
Agent: that would be a flight that leaves at six p.m. from hong kong and goes on
Agent: to bangkok and then he would take another flight to heathrow and then
Agent: another ho- flight from heathrow to moscow (??
speaker: Ok I've got that down as an option ok
Agent: ok. otherwise there's umm
Agent: more through bangkok, there's different carriers bangkok to heathrow to
Agent: moscow. as to other carriers aside from that there's one hong kong to
Agent: tokyo to london to moscow. everything's going to end up london moscow (it's
Agent: just a matter of
speaker: Ok let's) try the suggestion about going to Helsinki
Agent: you mean departing from helsinki to? ah or hong kong (helsinki?
speaker: ?? Can he go) to Hong Kong, oh I see you always have to go you can't go
speaker: straight through Hong Kong to
Agent: to then go through helsinki then that would we'd have to build our own
Agent: connection
speaker: Ok
Agent: that would be where we'd have to ask for, we would force, that's called
Agent: forcing a connection i can ask for umm flights through helsinki. now see
Agent: it's not going to come out let me see twenty four
speaker: Ok let me call you back
Agent: ok cause that's (it's
speaker: Ok)
Agent: doesn't look like its (going ??
speaker: Ok that's) what I need to find out.  Thank you
Agent: uh huh
Agent: -----
speaker: Hi A it's B, but now I'm going to talk about C.D.'s ??
Agent: ok
speaker: He's leaving on six five
Agent: ok hold on a second, how do you spell his last name?
speaker: [spells name]
Agent: oh ok on the fifth of june flying to miami, right? er (actually
speaker: yes)
Agent: to orlando and then on to miami and then (umm
speaker: Oh) oh we need to oh yes ok that's a on- no on six six ok on six six
speaker: from Orlando to Miami he needs
Agent: um hm
speaker: he needs to arrive in Miami sooner than what shows (so
Agent: six fifty)
speaker: uh huh, so we need to take an earlier flight
Agent: ok let's see. well what time does he want to arrive, how much earlier
speaker: about like at least by six, I'm going to put you on hold for just
speaker: a second while (you check that out
Agent: ok, sure)
speaker: thanks I'm back
Agent: ok uhh let's see from orlando to miami we do have a delta flight that
Agent: lands at five twenty, it leaves orlando at four thirty,
Agent: there's also a braniff flight at four fifteen departing that gets in at
Agent: five fourteen and those are the only ones i have right up you know before
Agent: six. there's also earlier flights getting in a little after four four
Agent: fifteen or four thirty.
speaker: Ok so if we go from Orlando to Miami on the Delta that would probably
speaker: be all right
Agent: yeah, that i mean we can, we can go with that one if you want umm let's see
Agent: his i guess you've already got his tickets?
speaker: Have em?
Agent: you should they were run on the thirty first let me see when g. was yeah
Agent: they were run yesterday maybe she just hasn't gotten around to calling
Agent: you with them but i mean that's no big deal we could always ah always change
Agent: them now let's see what what the new price would be and if we would just
Agent: reissue the whole ticket or just that one portion or have him revalidate.
Agent: it was ticketed at a fare of one thousand ninety one and if we go we could
Agent: get it for um one thousand seventy nine because the delta flight would price
Agent: lower than the uh continental he had been booked on
speaker: Ok
Agent: if we just go ahead and reticket the whole thing, you want to go ahead
Agent: and and go with the delta flight?
speaker: Sure
Agent: ok it's flight eight six five on tuesday the sixth out at four thirty
Agent: from orlando and into miami at five twenty and let me just make sure
Agent: that i can get him his umm nonsmoke aisle seat on that one.
speaker: Ok
Agent: same deal and its a non penalty fare of one thousand seventy nine
speaker: thank you 
Agent: uh huh
speaker: Bye
Agent: -----
speaker: I would like to get uhh some fare information
Agent: oh, ok so what what type of fare do you want to go or (know about
speaker: ok)
speaker: ok this is umm a round trip from San Francisco to Stockholm
Agent: ok
speaker: and basically what I want to know is the what the business class and the
speaker: first class fares are
Agent: ok, all right let's take a look here uh will there be any particular date
Agent: that you're be looking into?
speaker: Ah it would probably be uh leaving on June seventeenth and flying back
speaker: uh the following Saturday
Agent: ok, and what about any particular carrier that you're looking into
speaker: Ah no, I have I have ah no preference
Agent: ok
speaker: We're, basically the issue is that uh the client's asking us to travel on
speaker: our own time on weekends
Agent: mmm
speaker: um you know to fly to Sweden and back
Agent: oh
speaker: and we're thinking about whether we should ask them to pay for first
speaker: class travel
Agent: ah i see ok yeah yeah make 'em pay, no let's see we've got well it depends
Agent: on what ah if you want to look at like j- a coach fare on a round trip basis
speaker: Well it's not, well we're not even considering coach
Agent: (oh you just want first class
speaker: Business class is a minimum)
Agent: ok ok let's take a look umm, we're going ok business round trip would be
Agent: thirty two oh eight
speaker: uh hum
Agent: and then first class round trip is gonna be forty eight ninety two
speaker: forty eight ninety two
Agent: right and then i don't know if you even want to hear the coach round trip
Agent: is thirty two oh eight as well so its (the same for business or coach.
speaker: Coach and business) class are the same?
Agent: um hum
speaker: really?
Agent: yeah, unrestricted coach that is.
speaker: uh huh that's interesting
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok that's all I needed to know (thanks
Agent: ok,) uh huh bye
speaker: bye
