speaker: Hi this is A
Agent: and what can i help you with
speaker: I'd like to make a reservation for B C
Agent: ok and what does he need to do
speaker: he wants to go on July fourth uh TWA eight six two
Agent: that goes to washington d.c.?
speaker: right
Agent: business class or or coach?
speaker: um he has an upgrade to business right?
Agent: yeah
speaker: ok
Agent: they basically pay full coach although see with his twa frequent flyer
Agent: number i sh- i can probably get a little better discount than full coach
speaker: ok 
Agent: that's basically what, how it works. and then uh return?
speaker: uh can you give me the time on that?
Agent: yes one second. that leaves seven forty five a.m. out of san francisco
Agent: and arrives washington dulles at three twenty seven p.m. twa flight eight
Agent: sixty two
speaker: ok and returning July fifth
Agent: leaving in the evening?
speaker: uh flight ( sixty three
Agent: uh huh. ok that's available that leaves washington dulles at four forty
Agent: five p.m.and arrives san francisco at seven ten
speaker: seven ten
speaker: ok
Agent: just give you a fare on this one ??
Agent: the round trip fare on that would be nine thirty eight without restrictions
speaker: ok
Agent: i could get a slightly lower fare if i used restrictive fares
Agent: for instance on united coming back rather than twa i know he wants twa but
Agent: i just have to advise you that i
speaker: (ok
Agent: can) get nine eighteen round trip if i used that that's not really much
Agent: difference anyway
speaker: ok um I- I'll let him know
Agent: ok then let me, the fare's going up after tomorrow how about if i go ahead
Agent: and ticket 'em tomorrow then
speaker: ok
Agent: would that be all right?
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok ok you'll have them then
speaker: all right
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: thanks
Agent: bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
Agent: can i help you?
speaker: yes A I'd like to make reservations for C
Agent: ok b what does he need to do?
speaker: he needs to go SFO to Seattle
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: and he would like to go at seven o'clock arriving there (at eight
Agent: uh what) date
speaker: oh beg your pardon twenty ninth of June
Agent: and that's seven a.m.?
speaker: seven a.m. he has A S uh I guess that's (Alaska
Agent: alaska) flight one sixty one?
speaker: that's correct
Agent: and when's he returning
speaker: uhh he'd like to return on the same day at five on Alaska ninety six
Agent: ok that's available. the best fare i can get on that round trip is six ten
speaker: six hundred and ten (dollars?
Agent: mm hmm.) he's not qualified for any discounts cause he's not staying
Agent: over (saturday night
speaker: oh I see) ok well uh would it be the same with United Airlines?
Agent: mm hmm yeah they have exactly the same fares
speaker: oh that's absolutely terrible if he stayed overnight
Agent: well if he stayed over a saturday night
speaker: oh a Saturday
Agent: yeah i mean if you purchase at least seven days in advance
speaker: yeah yeah
Agent: and stays over a saturday night that's pretty much the only way you can
Agent: get a discount going to seattle
speaker: good grief (Charlie Brown
Agent: and then it) brings it down to you know like two fifty to three hundred
Agent: dollars round trip
speaker: w- w- but who's one to go on the weekend?
Agent: mm hmm
speaker: umm all right well he's not going on the weekend so it's six ten
Agent: ok right
Agent: ok we're all set then
speaker: thank you
Agent: thanks a lot
speaker: bye 
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
speaker: A uh need to make some air reservations
Agent: ok great who's the reservation for?
speaker: B. C. D [spelling of D]
Agent: ok fine. ok just one second here. ok and then what does he need to do?
speaker: ok on Monday the seventeenth of July SFO to Denver
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: late morning, early afternoon
speaker: I guess that would be in the ten to two window if possible
Agent: ok (there's
speaker: would) prefer United but he does not want something for which we'll be
speaker: charged a giant fee if there's a change you know a penalty
Agent: ok yeah and he and that can be on any airline i mean any any flight you
Agent: can request a non penalty fare
speaker: oh
Agent: they're just generally higher, more expensive
speaker: how much more?
Agent: well let's see is he staying over saturday night as it is?
speaker: no
Agent: then it probably won't be a ma- a major difference if there's any at all um
Agent: let me find the flights then i can tell you both ways
speaker: ok great
Agent: uh there's a flight out at eleven oh eight on united gets into denver at
Agent: two twenty nine would that be good for him or would he like something
Agent: later ther- the next later flight on united isn't until two twenty nine
Agent: in the afternoon so that's a little outside that window
speaker: I think eleven oh eight he'd leave here what nine thirty to get to the airport?
Agent: oh yeah uh huh
speaker: yeah that's great
Agent: and then uh re- return?
speaker: returning on Wednesday the nineteenth
Agent: leaving at what time?
speaker: this is a tighter window, between ten and twelve noon
Agent: well there's a flight at twelve noon exactly
speaker: ahh!
Agent: arriving one thirty six how would that be?
speaker: oh that's marvelous!
Agent: good. so let me just check the fare
Agent: well let's see ok if we used a penalty fare which i know he doesn't
Agent: want it would be five sixty eight round trip uh non penalty is six
Agent: forty four so it's less than a hundred dollers difference
Agent: so you want to go with the non penalty?
speaker: I guess we better, that's not a huge difference in these terms?
Agent: no not really
Agent: mm hmm ok usually i mean if he was staying over saturday night for
Agent: instance and able to get an excursion that would cut the fare by, in
Agent: half probably, or you know less than half of what he's paying
speaker: Ahhh
speaker: I know.  Do you have the flight numbers up or are they someplace else?
Agent: flight eight twenty between san francisco and denver
speaker: ok
Agent: leaving eleven oh eight arriving two twenty nine
speaker: uh huh
Agent: and flight three forty three denver to san francisco leaving at twelve
Agent: noon and arriving at one thirty six
speaker: and those are both United
Agent: mm hmm
Agent: ok. how soon do you want the tickets on these?
Agent: the fares are not guaranteed until we ticket
speaker: is it better to wait or to do it now wha- whatever you recommend
Agent: it's it's really got advantages both ways like i said the fare's not
Agent: guaranteed so if they suddenly decided to change the fares they could
Agent: but they haven't indicated they have any plans to that effect although
Agent: they don't always let us know (ahead of time
speaker: yeah)
Agent: uh you know if you do if you're sure and everything is, looks like it's
Agent: right that does guarantee it and this has no penalties on it, so in that
Agent: sense i might recommend that he go ahead and and ticket it
speaker: (ok
Agent: uh) but on the other hand i don't think you'd really risk a lot by waiting
Agent: if you prefer to do that
speaker: let's go on and do it
Agent: go ahead and ticket it ok
speaker: yeah
Agent: ?? there's no penalties so even if he finds out oh i wanted to go out on
Agent: sunday rather than monday it shouldn't be any really difficulty in
Agent: changing it, so i'll set these up for ticketing tomorrow then
speaker: ok 
speaker: ok.  also I am going to be personal tr- uh travel going back to Chicago around
speaker: the Christmas holiday.  when do I need to make reservations and can I, I
speaker: will definitely be staying over the Saturday night is there
Agent: i wouldn't wait too much longer it's amazing
speaker: oh
Agent: you know by the end of s- like august some markets start to, you could
Agent: probably at least still get it in september you know probably by october
Agent: though you'll find it really difficult to find the excursion space
speaker: But (I should definitely
Agent: the most the most) inexpensive ah
speaker: I should definitely do it in July?
Agent: uh well i mean you you really guarantee it now
Agent: so you see you sort of weigh the guaranteeing that you get the lowest
Agent: fare per right now i mean what they sell right now against possible changes
Agent: in your itinerary or possible changes in the fares by the airline.
speaker: what are we looking at round trip, cheapo
Agent: to to where?
speaker: to Chicago
Agent: (chicago
speaker: from SFO), or San Jose I don't care
Agent: it's probably going to about the same. actually do do you have dates in
Agent: mind i could just have a look and see what they look like right now
speaker: ohh either Friday the twenty second or Saturday the twenty third and
speaker: returning uh the twenty seventh or twenty eighth Wednesday or Thursday
Agent: ok at this point both dates are wide open. uh as far as the dates you've
Agent: just given me the only thing that would affect your fare is thursday the
Agent: twenty eighth. uh the breakoff point between weekday fares and weekend fares
Agent: is at twelve noon thursdays, so if you came back leaving after noon on
Agent: thursday you would pay a little bit h- higher than you would before that
Agent: or on wednesday
speaker: Ahhh!
Agent: but otherwise the friday saturday is the same fare it's considered weekend.
Agent: uh and there's a few flights that show a f- a few a little space sold but
Agent: hardly any for the most part those are wide open dates at this point. let
Agent: me just look at the fares.
Agent: the fare i'm getting coming back on wednesday or before noon on thursday
Agent: on united is three seventy three round trip it looks like that's based
Agent: on a a slightly higher fare on the outbound. they've blacked out the
Agent: lowest fare on that day on the twenty second. the return though is using
Agent: the lowest fare.
Agent: so it's still non refundable a little bit more than what you'd pay if it
Agent: was not christmas but not by much
Agent: but for that fare uh well it has to be purchased at least fourteen days in
Agent: advance which i'm sure you'll do because if you waited until fourteen
Agent: days at christmas time you wouldn't get the
speaker: yeah
Agent: ?? anyway
speaker: no way
Agent: uh uh it's like i said non refundable and they don't allow you to hold
Agent: a reservation without ticketing, so
speaker: ok
Agent: like i you know i said uh t-this is a guess and i can't guarantee
Agent: it but i would say you'd probably be safe waiting through e- into september.
Agent: you know and ?? but the longer you wait too there may still be space but
Agent: you may have to be more flexible in your times.
Agent: you know the more in advance you make the reservation the more chance you
Agent: have of having exactly the flight you want.
speaker: will there be much difference between the Friday and the Saturday?
Agent: uh right now i'm showing them both wide open um i think they're both
Agent: going to be really bad days because they're the beginning of a weekend
speaker: yeah
speaker: ok thanks again
Agent: you're welcome
speaker: (Bye Bye
Agent: bye bye)
