Agent: american express travel this is a, how can i help you
speaker: ah A I made a reservation earlier uh with uh B to Rochester uh
speaker: Minnesota and I'm trying to see what the fare would be if it was uh
speaker: round trip to Minneapolis rather than Rochester to see if there might
speaker: be a big difference.  he quoted me eleven forty four round trip
Agent: uh right uh do we have reservation right now we're holding?
speaker: uh yeah C [spelling]
Agent: and which departure date is this for?
speaker: this will be Sunday the uh twenty (fifth
Agent: twenty fifth) ok one moment.
Agent: ok so he's now san francisco rochester and you want me to check if he gets
speaker: well I'd like to see what would be uh to Minneapolis uh you know on an
speaker: unrestricted uh round trip ticket
Agent: round trip minneapolis?
speaker: uh huh
Agent: ok let me check that one moment
speaker: cause if it's a lot of uh difference then we may have him drive that
speaker: sixty miles or whatever
Agent: ok unrestricted the airfare would be eight fifty to go to minneapolis
Agent: so that is like a two hundred dollar savings
speaker: yeah right.  as a matter of fact almost uh yeah 
Agent: and he could, and he could, he could also take nonstops for that price
Agent: to minneapolis
speaker: yeah rather than having stopovers
Agent: it's almost a three hundred dollar savings
speaker: and it's two people going
Agent: it's two hundred ninety four per person savings
speaker: how about that.  I think we got to do that
Agent: ok
speaker: let's uh change it no the dates were looking at is uh Sunday the twenty fifth
Agent: uh huh
speaker: and um he could fly either out of San Jose or out of uh San Francisco
Agent: um if they would like to take nonstop service it would have to be san
Agent: francisco
speaker: Oh I see can you take take a quick look what the cost would be out of San Jose
speaker: one stop?  it goes through what Denver or someplace?
Agent: well it depends on the time we go. ah delta goes through salt lake
Agent: continental goes through denver
speaker: mm hmm
Agent: ah there's an american west flight through pheonix. they're probably going
Agent: to be the lowest let's see what their fare is
speaker: I sure hate to spend that much money, gosh.  especially only for two days
Agent: ok the airfare from san jose on connections would be eight ninety two
speaker: oh well no that wouldn't be smart then
Agent: ok so do we want to do out of uh san francisco a non stop then?
speaker: yeah right and what we'd like to do is to leave at a decent hour uh looks
speaker: like they can save time not having a stop um to get in you know not too
speaker: late in the evening let's say they leave around noon time or you know
speaker: give or take
Agent: ok
speaker: preferably a United if there is one
Agent: ok there's a united at one twenty five arrives seven oh four
speaker: uh huh well that sounds reasonable
Agent: ok and that would be united five seven four on the twenty fifth of june
speaker: and then the return is another story we need to get them back the very
speaker: latest Tuesday by noon but preferably they take an evening flight back,
speaker: so I guess the airline depends on what we can get back conveniently
Agent: um there's a nonstop on northwest at seven twenty arrives nine ten p.m.
Agent: let me see what united's schedule is
Agent: ok they don't have any nonstops in the evening
speaker: uh huh what's their latest nonstop
Agent: they only have one at eight twenty in the morning
speaker: oh well.  does it make a difference if they take a different airline
speaker: back on the on the um
Agent: no not at all
speaker: oh ok
Agent: so
speaker: what other choices have we Northwest is the one he likes the least.  I know
speaker: that
Agent: well if you want nonstop that's the only their, that's their hub so
speaker: oh ok
Agent: northwest is the only one that's going to fly aside from united's one flight
speaker: we'll take it 
Agent: ok
speaker: ok C
Agent: now they now they have the if they wanted to go earlier in the day i don't
Agent: know if they can do it there's a two forty five on northwest arriving
Agent: four thirty five
speaker: uh that doesn't sound realistic 
Agent: ok so we'll do the seven twenty p.m.
speaker: uh huh
speaker: so that's the twenty sixth right?
Agent: well you said tuesday that's the twenty seventh
speaker: oh I I'm sorry uh it would have to be Monday evening then
Agent: oh it was suppose to be on monday?
speaker: yeah
Agent: ok let me do this for you here. ok now if now on the twenty seventh
Agent: there was a flight that was sold out that i didn't tell you about but
Agent: on the twenty sixth it's available at five fifty
speaker: oh there you go
Agent: do you want to do that one?
speaker: yes uh huh
Agent: ok
speaker: five fifty p.m. and that's also N-
Agent: that's northwest three five seven on the twenty sixth monday (departing
speaker: right) uh huh
Agent: minneapolis five fifty arriving seven forty three
speaker: seven forty three ok
Agent: you said there's another person travelling?
speaker: uh yeah the uh second person is D, [spelling] F
Agent: let me change his flight. ok so he's confirmed on the same flight
speaker: ok
speaker: Ah A what's that United flight going out number?
Agent: ok that is united fou- five seven four on the twenty fifth
speaker: ok
Agent: and that departs one twenty five p.m. arrives minneapolis seven oh four p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: ok if he's going to upgrade we need to know what kind of certificate he's
Agent: using
speaker: right
Agent: the premieres can only upgrade within twenty four hours of the flight and
Agent: executive premieres are the only ones that can upgrade within uh three days
Agent: of the flight
speaker: oh ok
Agent: so it depends on what kind of status he has with united
speaker: oh ok fine I-
Agent: thanks
speaker: I'll ask him that
Agent: ok
speaker: thanks A very much I appreciate it
Agent: bye bye
speaker: bye
Agent: -----
speaker: Hi A this is B C I'd like to make a reservation
Agent: and what is the passenger's last name?
speaker: D, [spelling]
Agent: first name?
speaker: E
Agent: ok and he's travelling to what city, b?
speaker: Washington D.C.
Agent: on what date?
speaker: um June twenty eighth.  uh TWA eight six two, from San Francisco
Agent: does he have a twa frequent flyer number?
speaker: I don't know, you want me to find that out?
Agent: yeah because if he does we can put him in business class
Agent: but he has to have that to ha- to be able to be put in business
speaker: ok
Agent: ok and what is the return date?
speaker: the return is July one TWA six three
Agent: ok that's uh let me just tell you what we're booking here that's twa eight
Agent: six two on the twenty eighth departing san francisco seven fifty a.m.
Agent: arriving dulles three thirty two p.m. returning twa sixty three on the
Agent: first of july departing dulles four forty five p.m. arriving san francisco
Agent: seven ten p.m.
speaker: ok
speaker: yeah what is the cost goi-
Agent: without it see with the frequent flyer number it's four sixty nine it's
Agent: five thirty one without
speaker: ok well you mean if he's upgraded or what
Agent: right exactly
speaker: hi he's on his way down here to see me so I can ask him but if he
speaker: doesn't have the frequent flyer number we don't upgrade him
Agent: well i i i can upgrade him for the price of five thirty one one way i do
Agent: have to notate i am going to offer you right now the lowest airfare
Agent: to (washington
Agent: ok and now i gotta tell you what the lowest airfare for this itinerary. if
Agent: we use connections would be four forty nine one way
Agent: if he has an up- if he has a twa frequent flyer number the airfare would
Agent: be four sixty nine one way without it the fare is five thirty one one
Agent: way. so i would be notating that a lower fare of eight ninety eight had
Agent: been declined
speaker: eight ninety eight declined
speaker: wait if he has the upgrade it's four sixty nine
Agent: four sixty nine the lowest airfare that they could use on connections
Agent: would be four forty nine
speaker: is this a connecting flight or not?
Agent: this is nonstop
speaker: it's nonstop that's what he wants
Agent: ok but i have to offer these to you
speaker: no.  no connections. um ok uh
speaker: all right we'll we'll he's gonna find the number and I can call you back
speaker: on that ok?
Agent: ok so as it stands the fare that he's bei- he's paying is one thousand sixty
Agent: two round trip as opposed to the eight ninety eight
speaker: one thousand oh sixty two 
Agent: mm hmmm
speaker: because he doesn't have the upgrade?
Agent: because he doesn't have a frequent flyer number
speaker: well I don't want the business class then what does that, that should
speaker: bring it down right?
Agent: that'll bring it down um to let me see what price that would be here.
Agent: ok that would bring it down to four sixty nine if we don't put him in
Agent: business class
speaker: and so what would the round trip be, the total?
Agent: that's nine thirty eight
speaker: ok so with the number it's nine thirty eight.  ok he's gonna get the number
Agent: ok so should i leave this in business or should i put it in coach
speaker: um
Agent: i need to know how to book this. it's booked two different ways
speaker: ok do you think he'll have any trouble getting the number today?
Agent: no they should give it to him
speaker: put it in that business class then he's going to get the number.
speaker: ok?
speaker: ok) all right thanks
Agent: ok thank you
speaker: hm bye
Agent: bye bye
Agent: -----
Agent: american express travel this is a
Agent: how can i help you
speaker: ah yes I like to make the uh reservation for three people
Agent: ok and you're travelling together? to what city and what (state?
speaker: yes) same flight, I'm looking at the twenty sixth of June Monday
Agent: uh huh
speaker: from San Francisco to Raleigh North Carolina
Agent: and what ti- in the morning?
speaker: well I look at my ag and oag list shows Piedmont
Agent: at seven fifty in the morning?
speaker: ah no twelve fifteen
Agent: ok let me get that schedule
speaker: that's the flight one zero zero six, where does it stop?
Agent: ok that stops in raleigh durham oh wait i'm sorry ch- charlotte let me
Agent: check i think that's charlotte north carolina, yeah it stops in charlotte
Agent: north carolina for forty five minutes
speaker: I see
Agent: ok let me
speaker: ok book us on that
Agent: ok let me book all three of you one moment. ok that would be piedmont
Agent: airlines one zero zero six
speaker: fine
Agent: on the twenty sixth of june departing san francisco twelve fifteen p.m.
Agent: arriving raleigh at nine twenty nine p.m.
speaker: ok
Agent: and are you returning back from raleigh to san francisco?
speaker: correct
Agent: on what date?
speaker: twenty seventh, Tuesday.  and I'm looking at uh I don't see that Piedmont
speaker: uh direct flight coming back I'd like to leave there about four or five p.m.
Agent: ok piedmont would have a five fifty five p.m. connect through charlotte
Agent: arrives nine forty four p.m.
speaker:  yeah that well I see the Delta has four thirty arriving eight fifty
speaker: five about same time
Agent: that one's sold out
speaker: that's sold out?
Agent: completely sold out. now there's a delta four ten connects with dallas
Agent: arrives eight forty
speaker: oh ok that's all right too
Agent: ok let me book that one one moment
Agent: ok that's delta one zero six seven on the twenty seventh of june
speaker: fine
Agent: departing raleigh at four ten arriving dallas at five fifty eight p.m.
speaker: right
Agent: connecting to delta one three nine on the twenty seventh departing dallas
Agent: at six fifty eight p.m. arriving san francisco eight forty p.m.
speaker: eight forty?  (uh huh
Agent: uh huh)
speaker: ok
speaker: what's the airline charge?
Agent: ok the total airfare for this itinerary is one thousand fifty four
speaker: oh is that right?
Agent: because they don't have any, they don't have a seven day advance purchase
Agent: on any of this
speaker: yeah ok, boy that's a stiff one
Agent: ok?
speaker: yes thank you 
Agent: ok thank you
speaker: bye
Agent: bye bye
