

xx  Transcription for American Express tape 1:  A 4-24-89


My name is B C and I would like to plan a trip

xx [charge number]

xx and the date you need to leave?

well um I have to work a little bit backwards here

xx ok

I want to leave on the first flight out of ORD uh Monday morning

xx M- Monday (the first

the eighth) the eighth

xx ok 

and I want to take whatever red eye or any other flight that I have to take
to get there in time to make that transfer

xx where are you going from Chicago to where?

Greenbay.  so the first I need to catch the first flight from ORD out
to Greenbay, Wisconsin uh Monday morning

xx it looks like the first one is a seven forty on American uh Eagle that
xx arrives Greenbay at eight fifty one

is that booked?

xx I do show space avaliable

ok

xx uh, let's see what would get you there then leaving probabl- the seventh.
xx from San Jose or San Francisco?

San Francisco.  actually Oakland would be good too on that

xx I don't know if there are any red eyes from there (let's see

ok)

xx there is one on United that leaves Oakland at eleven thirty p.m. and
xx arrives Chicago five twenty five a.m.

so that's a two hour hold there

xx yes 

waiting for that flight ok any others?

xx uh not from Oakland.  departing from San Francisco it's about the same
xx actually American has an eleven forty one flight from San Francisco
xx that arrives Chicago five fifty four (and

that's ) and hour and a half.  so that's that's a a wash

xx yeah or wait just one moment.  or United has a twelve oh one a.m.
xx departure that arrives at Chicago five fifty two a.m.

oh that sounds good

xx it's about the same I don't know if you prefer United over American or ??

I'm a member of the United Travel

xx oh ok

group, so let's book that midnight red eye out of SFO

xx uh huh

right will leave SFO at

xx I'm sorry just one moment
xx ok put this in the correct order.  so you'd be on United flight five two
xx eight

United five twenty eight

xx leaving on the eigth from San Francisco twelve oh one (a.m.

oh)

xx is that right?  arriving Chicago five fifty two
xx and then you would connect with American flight four two oh eight leaving
xx Chicago seven forty a.m. and arriving Greenbay eight fifty one

seven forty to eight fifty one.  ok and

xx that's actually operated by American Eagle

uh what's the name of that the flight number

xx four two zero eight

four two zero eight ok

xx all righty and from there?

xx [car rental]

mh huh and I need a flight uh let's see I guess mid to late morning back uh

xx from Greenbay to

Springfield, Illinois that's that's probably going to be via Chicago

xx let's take a look and see what we have.  ok United has a nine thirty
xx seven connection through Chicago and you would conn- connect with an
xx American flight that would arrive Springfield twelve thirty one

ok

xx or you can take American both legs leaving at nine thirty two and connecting
xx with the same flight 

all right so let's see it's only nine thirty seven to twelve thirty ( for
that trip

xx mmm hmmmm)

that sounds good to me

xx let me give you those flight numbers

ok

xx that would be United flight two nine seven four
xx that flight is operated by United Express Air Wisconsin and it leaves
xx Greenbay nine thirty seven a.m. arrives Chicago ten thirty five, connects
xx with American flight four three oh six. again that's operated by American
xx Eagle leaving Chicago eleven twenty five and arriving Springfield
xx twelve thirty one p.m.

uh that gives me half a day there Wednesday that's good

xx [car and hotel]

xx ok and then you're going to return from Chicago on the fourteen or

on the fourteenth right

xx at what time?

umm think I'd like to arrive SFO around six in the evening, late afternoon
evening

xx United has a three forty five nonstop that arrives San Francisco six oh
xx three or they have a five p.m. that arrives seven eighteen

what's the next flight earlier than the the uh one that arrives

xx there's a two fifty on American that arrives San Francisco five twenty
xx five or a one o'clock on United that arrives San Francisco three fourteen

I think I'm going to do the one p.m. thing

xx ok that would be United

let me let me let me  beg your pardon here for a second I want to pull a map
Do you have any distances easily available in your computer there?

xx um, just air mileage actually where were you thinking of from

well I want I've got I think it's either two or three hundred miles that I have
to drive if I'm going to come into ORD

xx from Springfield

ah well no it's a different town but it's very very close to that

xx let me ah ah a hundred and seventy five airmiles from Springfield to Chicago

all right I've got my auto club map

xx if you have yeah that's probably better it would give you the

all right let me, what have I got. I've got about two hundred and fifty miles
that's five hours of driving.  I want to book the um I want to book
the three what is it three p.m. or so United flight out of Chicago

xx ok that would be United f- it leaves at three forty five United flight one
xx two nine

United one twenty nine and it leaves at three

xx three forty five and arrives San Francisco six oh three

and

xx you want me to price this and see what we get for the lowest available
xx fare just one moment

all right this is two weeks in advance so it should be

xx yeah and you are staying over a Saturday night so we should be able to do
xx something here.  uh it's taking a moment not sure why

xx [mileage plus and car numbers]


xx ok I can send your United number to Hertz also um I'm just looking at
xx this fare we got back the lowest available would be six hundred and
xx sixty dollars round trip that is completely non refundable and the
xx last day to issue the ticket would be today because it has a fourteen
xx day advance purchase

so that is that is the discounted fare then

xx yes and that's that's the the lowest

ok

xx we would have to issue the ticket today and it would be completely non
xx refundable

uh huh

xx and if you want to go with that or we could look at er er portions of
xx your trip going to change or would you like to look at a fare that has a

well barring some major catastrophe no it won't change

xx so would you like me to go ahead and set this up to ticket today?

yes

xx ok (and

I've I've) always wondered if I get bumped on one of these legs because
I am flying two different airlines is that going to foul up my ticketing

xx no if if for for their reasons you mean (they

say American Airlines)

xx oversold the flight or something

American Eagle or whoever it is bumps me off a flight is United going to
penalize me?

xx no 

ok

xx [seating]

ok that's real fine

xx all righty

all right thank you (very much

xx thanks.)  ok bye bye

bye bye


xx -----


xx um is this going to be business or personal?

this is business and uh

xx [retrieving profile]

xx and what date did you want to leave

I'm going to be leaving May first

xx from San Jose or San Francisco?

uh it looks like San Jose tell you what I what I need I have an appointment
Monday afternoon at San Bernadino and uh I have appointments on Tuesday
um in the City Commerce and in the Santa Ana areas so 

xx mm hmm

it looks like probably the best connections are to go out to Ontario and
to come back by way of Orange County I don't know if you split that up
whether that's gonna

xx it won't it really won't affect the cost um except that if we issue the
xx ticket today we can get you a seven day advance purchase

mm hmm

xx fare that's gonna be two fifty eight round trip instead of two ninety

mm hmm

xx six

mm hmm

xx but uh otherwise un- unless you're staying over a Saturday night

unfortunately no I ??

xx ok and what time do you need to be in San Bernadino by?

I need to uh well my appointment is at two o'clock so it looks like I I
just looked at the airline guide it looks like there are two American
Airlines flights out of San Jose ah one's at nine fifty gets in  around
eleven oh two and the other nine twenty five it gets in at ten thirty

xx that's on Alaska

is that Alaska?

xx yeah

ah both of them?

xx no American is the nine fifty flight

nine fifty is American uh huh are there price differences depending on

xx no it would be the same airfare it's just up to you which time would be
xx better or if you have a preference (to airlines

they're both in) the middle of the morning so

xx yeah

equally non productive uh

xx it shouldn't be ba- too bad traffic wise

yeah I guess Alaska has a snack on it and American doesn't um

xx would you rather fly on the Alaska flight?

well p- p- put me on the American that's a little later that's the nine
fifty you say?

xx uh huh

yeah put me on the American flight

xx ok that's flight fourteen thirteen and it leaves San Jose nine fifty a.m.

yeah

xx and arrives Ontario eleven oh two

eleven oh two ok

xx ok and then what date would you be returning?

be returning on the second

xx at what time?

and uh my last appointment is again two o'clock in the afternoon
I would imagine we could depart around five five or six

xx and you wanted to leave from Orange County, correct?

I think so yeah the appointment going to be right near Orange County

xx ok American has a five p.m. flight

that sounds

xx or they have a six p.m.

the fourteen ninety six is the five right

xx uh huh

um yeah I'd almost I'd almost say uh the five ought to be able to do it um 

xx the only um let me just go ahead and price this and double check but yeah
xx you would be eligible for the two fifty eight fare but the ticket would
xx need to be issued today

mm hmm

xx so if you want to change that return you'd have to give me a call by this
xx afternoon or unless you wanted to go with the fare that had no penalty
xx which would be two ninety six

ok in other words if I change the return then I'm 

xx you need to do so by by (this afternoon

ok it's not something) that I could uh if I if I changed en route er while I
was there that would be a penalty

xx yo- yeah then it would be a twenty five percent penalty

yeah I I suspect that uh I suspect the uh five o'clock is ok but maybe to be on
the safe side we better do the six

xx ok

if we wind up having a productive meeting I'd hate to have to push it
short for twenty five percent penalty included

xx yeah tha- that's true

uh huh

xx ok I can confirm you on the six o'clock flight which is flight three six two

xx [car rental]

xx so do you want to go ahead with the six p.m. departure then?

xx [coughing]

I believe so yes

xx ok and we want to go ahead with the two hundred and fifty eight dollar
xx fare that (has the twenty five

if that's the best) we can do.  what, just for curiosity if you stayed over
Saturday what are the rates?

xx well we could get it down to a hundred and twenty four dollars round trip

round trip ok (?? efforts

xx but that w- but that would be completely non refundable

no no changes ??

xx yeah no changes on a a if if worst now the only thing is that I do need
xx to have the um charge number and the travel advance before we can issue
xx (the ticket today

xx [ticketing]

A thank you so much

xx ok thanks

bye bye

xx bye bye 


