

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 15b:  B 6-30-89




xx this is B speaking

hello I'd like to make plans for a round trip from San Jose to Buffalo

xx [recording notification]

xx ok ah what's your last name?

BB b as in boy

xx mhm

[spells name]

xx [charge number, profile]

xx and what day did you want to travel

well I'm completely flexible 

xx uh huh

uh almost completely flexible in regard to that uh either I want to
first of all economy is the first consideration.  I want to go there for
two or three days preferably over a weekend

xx mm hmm

preferably in July

xx ok any preference as to weekend?

um not too much if I could go the weekend of the fifteenth.  for example
le- leave Thursday or Friday and come back on the following

xx this was a round trip to Buffalo you said?

round trip to Buffalo

xx ok one second here
xx ok you said leaving on a Thursday and returning on a Sunday or a Monday?

yeah whatever whatever's cheaper (I know there's some 

xx whatever's cheaper)

catch there you have to stay over Saturday (night

xx ?? you stay over Saturday night) is correct
xx ok um the lowest fare I'm going to be able to find for you would be
xx three ninety eight if and that's totally non refundable if you leave
xx be- after twelve noon on Thursday and return prior to twelve noon on
xx Monday.  the lowest fare travelling uh prior to twelve noon on Thursday
xx and returning after twelve noon on Monday would be three fifty eight,
xx difference of forty dollars

three fifty eight

xx mm hmm

wh- what was three ninety eight?

xx three ninety eight is if you travel after twelve noon on Thursday so if
xx you were going to leave Thursday night and come back say Monday uh Sunday
xx the fare would be three ninety eight

and when would it be three fifty eight?

xx three fifty eight if you were to leave Thursday morning and come back
xx Thu- on Monday afternoon

ok that that sounds good the three fifty eight

xx three fifty eight ok.  one second here.  can I put you on hold a second?

ok h-

xx be, be right back with you here

ok

xx back with you here

I ha- I  had one other question when

xx mm hmm

when you find that, would it be cheaper to go the following weekend than
it is the weekend of the twenty second

xx ok

cause I know sometimes there's a a two week criteria there

xx that's what's happening right now.  hold on a second today,
xx hmm it's not giving me the fare I want.  we meet all the conditions
xx I'm just looking at the rules here to figure out why.  oh I see ok.
xx ok there I got it yeah we do have to put it off to the following week
xx to get those four full fourteen days here (and

ok)

xx uh I can get it on American or United right off uh if you have a
xx preference to airlines

ah

xx I found that the American lets you sleep in a little bit longer than
xx United did on the outbound flight uh I could get you on an eight
xx thirty seven flight out of San Francisco on the twentieth versus something
xx closer to about six fiftyish on United

ok um do any of those go out of San Jose

xx um let me check here what we can  do there
xx ok I can get you a good ah fare out of on American the same three hundred
xx and fifty eight dollar fare.  there's a direct flight out of San Jose on
xx American leaves at eight fifty a.m. out of San Jose gets into Buffalo at
xx six at six thirty three p.m.  it does stop down in Chicago but you would
xx not get off the plane.

ok 

xx and then returning on the twenty fourth there's an American flight that
xx leaves at five p.m. connects in Chicago and uh would get into uh San Jose
xx at s- nine oh two p.m.  I found the flights both on United and American ah
xx around the twelve o'clock hour the one o'clock flights we- these fares
xx were sold out so a lot of people are ahead of you in in grabbing that fare

yeah, that's pretty good

xx in the early afternoon right

I'd rather go in the morning anyway ??

xx well what I'm saying is returning back coming back from Buffalo

ok

xx um I've got a five p.m. flight for you tentatively right now because the
xx the one and two o'clock flights are sold out	

on the returning flight I'd rather go as late as possible (so that's good too

xx ok) ok

uh

xx Now I can get you a se- an earlier morning flight if you'd like out of uh
xx San Jose

would it also be direct?

xx ah no this was the only direct one that I saw

?? ah that's a real attraction

xx that's a plus

I'll stick with that.  the the day let me just get the exact days

xx ok this was out on the twentieth of July

the twentieth is a Thursday

xx it's a Thursday morning and coming back Monday evening

that's perfect and that's for three fifty eight?

xx three fifty eight

ok

xx ok you want to think about that or should we go ahead and book that?

go go ahead and do it I I got to sort this out once and for all, I've been
putting it off

xx ok now this is a non refundable fare this is a hundred percent penalty no
xx returns no changes no cancellations

ok

xx and the other stipulation with this particular fare is that they s- they
xx require that we ticket it twenty four hours after we make the reservation
xx or the reservation goes is basically disappears

ok

xx um so we would have to ticket this in this in this case today tonight

go ahead and ticket it now

xx [form of payment, seating]

could you give me the flight numbers on these?

xx sure can on the twentieth of July we have you on American flight one one
xx six zero out of San Jose at eight fifty a.m. and into Buffalo at six
xx thirty three p.m.   on the twentyfourth of July we have you on American
xx flight three ninety three leaving Buffalo at five p.m. and getting into
xx Chicago at five forty p.m. connecting there with American flight one
xx zero two nine leaving Chicago at six thirty p.m. and getting into San Jose
xx at nine oh two p.m.

what was the Buffalo to Chicago flight?

xx ah Buffalo to Chicago flight is three ninety three

three ninety three

xx uh huh (and

ok)

xx [car, hotel]

xx all righty you're all set and we'll have this out to you this afternoon

thank you very much

xx you're quite welcome

bye

xx bye now


xx -----


xx American Express B speaking

yes I'd just to make some reservations to go to New York City

xx [recording notification]

xx ok and your last name please?

the last name would be CC [spells name]

xx and first name?

DD [spells part of name]

xx ok one second here.  is this a business trip or personal?

ah this is business trip

xx [profile info]

xx and the date you wanted to travel?

uh that'd be uh July the eighth Saturday

xx out of San Francisco?

correct

xx and going into which airport?

uh that would be uh JFK

xx and what time of day did you want to tr- fly?

um let's see um early in the morning and probably possibly arrive
in New York ah let's say maybe mid to late afternoon

xx ok

I don't know exactly what (the time is

xx ok we've got) a special fare with Pan Am it's a seven hundred dollar round
xx trip fare

uh huh

xx which is about two hundred and thirty six dollars cheaper than the other
xx airlines

hmm

xx um
xx they have a nonstop flight that leaves at eight a.m. and gets in at four
xx twenty five p.m.

ok and that's nonstop correct?

xx correct

hm ok um h- ho- let's see how much lead time do you generally need to get
like the cheaper flights I'm just curious

xx ah let me check here one second

ok

xx if you're looking for a penalty fare like a twenty five percent or a hundred
xx percent  penalty we would need seven days advance purchase time which
xx does qualify 

uh huh

xx for a twenty five percent penalty not for the uh hundred percent penalty

oh I see I see

xx uh we could get you hold on a second.  I tend to forget when uh you guys are
xx going and staying over a Saturday night

yeah

xx let me look here.  do you have a preference as to airlines?

um well American or United would be fine

xx ok wh- what date are you returning on?

that would be Sunday the sixteenth

xx and time of day?

um let's see when's the best time
um hopefully uh let's see if I left New York at let's say maybe around
two or three o'clock, what time would I get back to San Francisco

xx let me see here.  it's a matter of finding flights that leave around that
xx time.  most of them leave early in the morning or later in the afternoon

ok how much later in the afternoon would that be?

xx ah around the five o'clock hour

ok and if I left at five what time would I arrive?

xx you'd get in about nine o'clock

oh nine o'clock San Francisco time

xx mmm hmm yes

ok yeah that doesn't sound too bad

xx ok let me look for an American flight that does that

ok

xx having a hard time finding a non stops uh that match up between airlines
xx I've got to keep you on the same airline for that fare

hmmm (I see

xx so) do a little bit of looking around here. right at the moment I'm
xx narrowing it down to TWA.  ok I can get you a four hundred and fifty eight
xx dollar fare which has a twenty five percent penalty for changes or refunds

mm hmm

xx uh would have to be ticketed today

ok

xx and it's TWA non stop both directions outbound on the eighth of July
xx at eight ten a.m.

ok

xx into JFK at four thirty

ok arrives at four thirty ok

xx and returning on the sixteenth of July at
xx four twenty five p.m. getting into San Francisco at seven thirty p.m.

seven thirty p.m. ok so you're saying like American United there's no other
flight that had that same type of connection huh?

xx uh looking for not keeping you just on non stops uh I could not find one
xx where the return umm I couldn't find that fare

uh huh

xx available on both the going and the coming back on those particular dates
xx at those times that you're requesting

I see ok

xx I could put you on connection flights around those times

uh huh

xx but that really does a a it adds a couple hours to your trip

exactly now that's at the twenty five percent right uh

xx correct

ref- wh- what's the one hundred o- or what's the hundred percent?

xx you would need fourteen days advance purchase time in order to get that

oh I see ok ok great um yeah ok that flight sounds fine then

xx you want to go with that TWA?

right

xx ok (that's

what's the)

xx TWA flight eight forty two

eight forty two

xx on the eighth of July out of San Francisco at eight ten a.m.

ok

xx into JFK at four thirty p.m.

right

xx and returning on the sixteenth of July and that's TWA flight eight oh three 

ok

xx leaving JFK at four twenty five getting into San Francisco at seven thirty

seven thirty p.m.

xx the fare is four hundred and tw- fifty eight dollars

ok

xx and it does have a twenty five percent penalty

ok

xx [seating]

xx you're all set

ok fantastic
thank you very much

xx thank you very much

bye

xx bye now


