

xx  Transcription for American Express tape 6:  A 05-26-89


xx this is A at American Express can I help you?

oh yes A this is B

xx [recording notification]

xx ok)  thanks what can I help you with?

well C is going to go to Ottawa

xx is this for a new reservation?

yes and I, what I need right now are um choices

xx just flight information then?

right

xx ok and what date is he gonna go?

the twenty second and he needs to be there in time for an evening meeting
if he can be, say around six o'clock

xx let me see here

twenty second of June did I make that clear?

xx yeah a- I assumed that yeah.  ah there's nothing really that gets in that
xx early. uh Air Canda has a connection through Toronto that leaves San
xx Francisco at seven fifty a.m. arrives Toronto at three thirty five but
xx the connection to Ottawa doesn't leave until five fifteen getting into
xx Ottawa at six ten (and

when)

xx that's about the earliest one

um ok

xx other than leaving the evening before.  I mean the, you know like just
xx after midnight

so we have one tha- on Air Canada that goes to Toronto huh?

xx right and then it's a change of planes there but it doesn't arrive into
xx Ottawa until six ten

let me take all that down anyway ok I guess it's too, at what time does it
get to Toronto?

xx ah three thirty five p.m.

mm hmm

xx and departs there at five fifteen. do you want the flight numbers on these?

right uh huh

xx uh the first one is Air Canada flight seven fifty eight

mm hmm

xx the connection is flight four sixty

uh huh.  and it arrives Ottawa

xx at six ten p.m.

all right do you have any that get in- into ah Ottawa later in the evening?

xx ah yes one second

ge- are there any direct flights at all?

xx ah only if there's an overnight direct flight on Piedmont but it leaves
xx leaves the night before at eleven forty p.m.

let me see I'm writing this down.  that's Piedmont what

xx ah flight twelve fifty it really isn't worth considering I just noticed
xx it makes three (stops

no) no

xx I mean it's direct in that it's the same plane all the way through but
xx ( it's ??

??) going to take him all night

xx there are no non stop flights (um

that's) what I was wondering ok

xx there's a CP Air f- uh connection through Vancouver it get's in later it
xx leaves at nine ten a.m. and arrives Vancouver (at 

what) is CP Air?

xx it's a Canadian Airline like Air Canada it's

and it flies out of San Francisco?

xx uh huh

huh what's that number then?

xx uh it's CP Air flight one forty

one forty

xx it's out of San Francisco at nine ten a.m.

uh huh

xx arrives Vancouver at eleven thirteen a.m. it connects to CP Air flight
xx seven twenty two

mm hmm

xx that leaves Vancouver at one p.m. and arrives Ottawa at nine forty eight
xx p.m. that does make one stop between Vancouver and Ottawa

where does it stop?

xx let's see.  looks like Calgary

like Calgary ok

xx yeah, Calgary

all right then coming back if if you ha- do you have a late flight out on the
twenty third.  probably not huh?

xx well let me see.  we might cause the time zone's in our v- our favor
xx coming (this direction

uh huh) he said either l- late on the twenty third or or any time on the
twenty fourth

xx ok. by late he means something like nine ten like that?
xx cause there's an eight p.m. departure

tha- ah I think that's (that's

xx would) that be good?

uh huh

xx ok there's an eight p.m. departure on Air Canada it's flight four sixty
xx seven it arrives into Toronto at eight fifty five connects to Air Canada
xx flight seven fifty five that's out of Toronto at ten thirty p.m. and
xx arrives San Francisco at twelve  forty five a.m. on the twenty fourth

no I'm it leaves Ottawa four sixty seven leaves Ottawa at what time?

xx eight p.m.

eight p.m.  and arrives at Toronto

xx eight fifty five

eight fifty five. and leaves Toronto at ten thirty?

xx right

(and arrives

xx seven fifty) five does

mm huh

xx and arrives San Francisco at twelve forty five a.m.

ok and then what about Saturday a flight next Saturday?

xx yeah one second.  uh there's an early Air Canada connection through Toronto
xx again

uh huh

xx it's uh flight one eighty nine out of Ottawa at six fifty a.m. arrives
xx Toronto at seven forty seven a.m.

mmm hmm

xx connects to Air Canada flight seven fifty seven

mm hmm

xx out  of Toronto at nine thirty a.m.

mm hmm

xx and arrives San Francisco at eleven forty five a.m.

all right I think tha- this is enough for him to consider

xx ok

for the time being  and I'll get back with you

xx ok great

all right thank you ( very much

xx thanks a lot)

bye bye

xx bye bye


xx -----


xx this is A at American Express may I help you?

A this is B

xx [recording notification]

xx ok what can I help you with B?

ok my the traveller is C [spells name]

xx mm hmm

first name is CC

xx [for new reservation, charge number]

xx ok what does he need to do?

ok it's for ah the outbound would be on June seventeenth

xx uh huh

and it's on US Air flight two seven eight two and I believe it's departing
at twelve twenty five p.m.

xx going where?

Orange County

xx two twenty five p.m.?

yes, uh twelve twenty five sorry

xx ok US Air flight twenty seven eighty two?

mm yeah

xx ok (got that

that right? ok) now this traveller is making uh, this is something out of the
ordinary now it says reservations for CC and his wife and

xx [discussion of frequent flyer number and flight for wife]

xx yeah, let me make C's reservation
xx and then I'll have to call US Air to find out if if we're allowed to make
xx her reservations sometimes you have to make it directly with the airline

oh

xx and if we can make it I'll go ahead and do it

oh ok

xx ok otherwise you'll have to call US Air

oh I see all right now coming back on June twentieth

xx leaving at what time?

uh  let's see five ten p.m. out of Burbank and this is on US Air two five
one one and again this return flight will be for CC and his wife 

xx right n- yeah, I know

you'll have to check that one too

xx no  I'll check the whole thing yeah

mmm

xx what's his wife's name?

xx [trying to figure out pronunciation, hotel, car]

ah huh

xx yeah we have enough advance purchase time that i can get a nonrefundable
xx fare on the return would bring that portion down to twenty nine dollars
xx one way but I'd have to t- issue the tickets today 

no give them the non restricted air fare (I think it's one ninety eight

xx non restrictive air fare) one ninety eight right

xx [requesting special hotel rate]

xx ok sure 

bye

xx bye bye B


xx -----


xx Hi this is A at American Express may I help you?

hi A this is B Physical Sciences Business Office at uh WWW

xx [recording notification]

xx yeah and uh what can I help you with?

uh I need to know uh business class round trip uh fare for ah San Francisco
to ah Baron, Switzerland

xx sure one second.  is this for a proposal?

right

xx I'm checking a couple different carriers just to compare them before I give
xx you the fare on this

ok

xx I seem to have a very slow computer here

ok that's all right

xx well I have one fare let me give you that and I'm just trying to see if I
xx can verify it on another carrier

ok

xx uh one way fare would be fifteen sixty seven

w- round trip?

xx the round trip would be that times two plus thirteen for taxes

ok

xx [reiteration of fare]

xx ah it looks like approximately right uh using TWA instead of American I get
xx fifteen eighty nine a little bit higher

ok

xx so it's it's in that ballpark (??

ok fifteen) fifty seven times two plus thirteen

xx there isn't any one carrier that flies all the way in there you need
xx to connect somewhere like from TWA to Air France or Pan Am to Air France
xx or something to get in to Baron

uh huh

xx and also you can't get business class all the way through but they fare
xx it business class all the way

ok

xx you you you would get business class from the US to your European gateway
xx city and then for the little hop to Baron you would probably be in Coach

yeah ok

xx ok

that helps

xx ok great

thanks a lot

xx you're welcome (bye bye

bye bye


xx -----


xx [continuing after discussing another frequent flyer number]

This is for B

xx [checking profile, charge number, etc.]

xx ok, what is she doing?

ok, on the uh thirty first of may

xx uh huh

out of SFO to DFW on American thirteen hundred leaving at eleven am

xx ok I've got that it arrives at four twenty three into Dallas?

right

xx ok and then a return?

returning on the first of june

xx uh huh

departing DFW at six forty pm on American three eight nine

xx okay, let me see what sort of fare I can get on that

ok

xx the only thing that's going to apply is full coach

ok

xx and that's nine forty six one way

ok

xx I mean round trip, (round trip, sorry

xx [exclamation, hotel, car, seating, ticketing]

thanks a lot

xx ok, thanks, D

bye bye

xx bye bye


xx -----

xx A at American Express may I help you?

yeah this is B B I need to make some travel arrangements

xx [recording notification, charge number, travel advance, phone]

xx ok and what do you need to do?

ok on June sixth from San Jose to Denver, United

xx leaving at what time?

I believe there's one leaving at eleven o'clock in the morning

xx yeah that's United flight four seventy

ok

xx leaves at eleven a.m. and arrives Denver at two twenty p.m. out of San Jose

that's the one

xx and a return?

return June seventh

xx leaving at what time?

uh I believe there's one at five sixteen

xx yeah that's United flight six fifty nine it arrives back into San Jose at
xx six forty two

ok

xx let me just see what sort of fare I can get you on this

all righty

xx ok the best fare I can get you on this would be five sixty eight round
xx trip. that does have a twenty five percent change cancellation penalty on it

ok

xx and we'd have to ticket it by Tuesday

right that's fine

xx [hotel, car, seating, mileage plus number]

ok thank you very much

xx thanks a lot

sure

xx mm bye

bye bye


xx -----


xx American Express may I help  you?

oh A this is B

xx [recording notification]

xx ok wh- how can I help you?

xx [ticketing]

we have an emergency traveller who is going t- uh
Copenhagen from San Francisco to Los Angeles and he is going on a two
o'clock flight.

xx [ticketing]

xx he's going to Copenhagen today?

that's correct yes

xx [warning her of slow system]

xx it's just a flat one way?

ah yes that's correct

xx in business class?

xx [sentence fragments]

ok (??

xx yeah we should be able to do it)

xx [discussion of international booking]

xx um) one sec let me just

all right

xx start a new reservation for him.  what's his last name?

um C [spells name]

xx first name

D [spells name]

xx [discussing non-employee status, charge number, etc.]

xx ok what flights do you want to have him on?

ok he would like to be on United flight one one one seven

xx first of all he's going all the way through to Copenhagen?

oh, that's right uh huh

xx and this is a connection in what city?

ah Los Angeles

xx ok

oh and yeah

xx and what time does that United flight leave?

it's ah going out at uh two o'clock today, SFO to Los Angeles

xx and then connecting to SAS flight nine thirty two?

nine thirty two that's right

xx and you said well actually the eleven seventeen I'm showing sold out let
xx me just look (in their system

oh no)

xx well we can put him there are other flights oh there I can get a seat on it

oh ok

xx ??  it's one of the last ones but I can get it.
xx now is he going business class on the SAS flight?

um if he can go business class sure

xx they're allowed it for flights over (thirteen hours

certainly oh) ok great that's fine

xx and this is just going to be one way only right?

that's correct

xx [on hold, hotel, passport, seating, check in]

xx ok B so I have him on United flight eleven seventeen on today Friday
xx the twenty sixth out of San Francisco at two p.m.

right

xx arriving LAX at three fifteen p.m.

uh huh

xx connecting to SAS flight nine thirty two

right 

xx out of LAX at five thirty p.m.  it arrives Copenhagen at one oh five p.m. on
xx the twenty seventh of May

yes (that's wonderf-

xx that's) on request and that's already confirmed so that's (great

that's) just absolutely marvelous and I am wondering now if we can we add
another leg to that uh

xx what do you want to do?

xx [on hold]

um we would like on Monday which would be uh let's see the twenty ninth the
holiday

xx mm hmm

May twenty ninth from Copenhagen to uh Sandestrom

xx ok

and that would be uh SAS flight two nine one and that is a ten thirty a.m.
departure

xx ok no- this adds a fare that isn't in my system

oh

xx so if we do that I'm going to have to send it off to the airlines for
xx faring and I can't guarantee how fast they'll come back with a fare

xx [ticketing problem]

y- exactly yes I understand. ok that's great and you did make the
reservation for the uh Monday five twenty nine flight was that possible
to go on flight two nine one from Copenhagen?

xx yeah I haven't confirmed it yet but I've just (got it

oh ok)

xx requested.  one second

sure

xx yes B that's that's confirmed now

oh ok

xx so we'll just ticket as far as Copenhagen and he'll deal with the rest
xx in Denmark then

uh 

xx is that what you want to do?

xx [ticketing problem again]

all right

xx you know if it's not back within an hour we'll just ticket him as far as
xx Copenhagen

good

xx how's that?

all right

xx ok

good bye

xx sure, bye bye


