

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 15a:  A 6-26-89


Hi this is A

xx [recording notification]

xx and what can I help you with

I'd like to make a reservation for B C

xx [charge number, etc]

xx ok and what does he need to do

he wants to go on July fourth uh TWA eight six two

xx that goes to Washington D.C.?

right

xx business class or or coach?

um he has an upgrade to business right?

xx yeah

ok

xx they basically pay full coach although see with his TWA frequent flyer
xx number I sh- I can probably get a little better discount than full coach

ok 

xx that's basically what, how it works.  and then uh return?

uh can you give me the time on that?

xx yes one second.  that leaves seven forty five a.m. out of San Francisco
xx and arrives Washington Dulles at three twenty seven p.m. TWA flight eight
xx sixty two

ok and returning July fifth

xx leaving in the evening?

uh flight ( sixty three

xx [chatter]

xx uh huh.  ok that's available that leaves Washington Dulles at four forty
xx five p.m.and arrives San Francisco at seven ten

seven ten

xx [hotel, car, seating]

ok

xx just give you a fare on this one ??
xx the round trip fare on that would be nine thirty eight without restrictions

ok

xx I could get a slightly lower fare if I used restrictive fares
xx for instance on United coming back rather than TWA I know he wants TWA but
xx I just have to advise you that I

(ok

xx can) get nine eighteen round trip if I used that that's not really much
xx difference anyway

ok um I- I'll let him know

xx [ticketing]

xx ok then let me, the fare's going up after tomorrow how about if I go ahead
xx and ticket 'em tomorrow then

ok

xx would that be all right?

yeah

xx ok ok you'll have them then

all right

xx thanks a lot

thanks

xx bye

bye


xx -----


xx Can I help you?

yes A I'd like to make reservations for C

xx [recording notification, checking name spelling, charge number]

xx ok B what does he need to do?

he needs to go SFO to Seattle

xx mm hmm

and he would like to go at seven o'clock arriving there (at eight

xx uh what) date

oh beg your pardon twenty ninth of June

xx and that's seven a.m.?

seven a.m. he has A S uh I guess that's (Alaska

xx Alaska) flight one sixty one?

that's correct

xx and when's he returning

uhh he'd like to return on the same day at five on Alaska ninety six

xx ok that's available.  the best fare I can get on that round trip is six ten

six hundred and ten (dollars?

xx mm hmm.)  he's not qualified for any discounts cause he's not staying
xx over (Saturday night

oh I see) ok well uh would it be the same with United Airlines?

xx mm hmm yeah they have exactly the same fares

oh that's absolutely terrible if he stayed overnight

xx well if he stayed over a Saturday night

oh a Saturday

xx yeah I mean if you purchase at least seven days in advance

yeah yeah

xx and stays over a Saturday night that's pretty much the only way you can
xx get a discount going to Seattle

good grief (Charlie Brown

xx and then it) brings it down to you know like two fifty to three hundred
xx dollars round trip

w- w- but who's one to go on the weekend?

xx mm hmm

umm all right well he's not going on the weekend so it's six ten

xx ok right

xx [hotel, ticketing]

xx ok we're all set then

thank you

xx thanks a lot

bye 

xx bye bye


xx -----


A uh need to make some air reservations

xx [recording notification]

xx ok great who's the reservation for?

B. C. D [spelling of D]

xx [pulling profile, charge number, etc]

xx ok fine.  ok just one second here.  ok and then what does he need to do?

ok on Monday the seventeenth of July SFO to Denver

xx leaving at what time?

late morning, early afternoon
I guess that would be in the ten to two window if possible

xx ok (there's

would) prefer United but he does not want something for which we'll be
charged a giant fee if there's a change you know a penalty

xx ok yeah and he and that can be on any airline I mean any any flight you
xx can request a non penalty fare

oh

xx they're just generally higher, more expensive

how much more?

xx well let's see is he staying over Saturday night as it is?

no

xx then it probably won't be a ma- a major difference if there's any at all um
xx let me find the flights then I can tell you both ways

ok great

xx uh there's a flight out at eleven oh eight on United gets into Denver at
xx two twenty nine would that be good for him or would he like something
xx later ther- the next later flight on United isn't until two twenty nine
xx in the afternoon so that's a little outside that window

I think eleven oh eight he'd leave here what nine thirty to get to the airport?

xx oh yeah uh huh

yeah that's great

xx and then uh re- return?

returning on Wednesday the nineteenth

xx leaving at what time?

this is a tighter window, between ten and twelve noon

xx well there's a flight at twelve noon exactly

ahh!

xx arriving one thirty six how would that be?

oh that's marvelous!

xx good.  so let me just check the fare
xx well let's see ok if we used a penalty fare which I know he doesn't
xx want it would be five sixty eight round trip uh non penalty is six
xx forty four so it's less than a hundred dollers difference
xx so you want to go with the non penalty?

I guess we better, that's not a huge difference in these terms?

xx No not really

xx [chatter]

xx mm hmm ok usually I mean if he was staying over Saturday night for
xx instance and able to get an excursion that would cut the fare by, in
xx half probably, or you know less than half of what he's paying

Ahhh

xx [seating]

I know.  Do you have the flight numbers up or are they someplace else?

xx flight eight twenty between San Francisco and Denver 

ok

xx leaving eleven oh eight arriving two twenty nine

uh huh

xx and flight three forty three Denver to San Francisco leaving at twelve
xx noon and arriving at one thirty six

and those are both United

xx mm hmm

xx [limo, seating, hotel, car]

xx ok.  how soon do you want the tickets on these?
xx the fares are not guaranteed until we ticket

xx [ticketing]

is it better to wait or to do it now wha- whatever you recommend

xx it's it's really got advantages both ways like I said the fare's not
xx guaranteed so if they suddenly decided to change the fares they could
xx but they haven't indicated they have any plans to that effect although
xx they don't always let us know (ahead of time

yeah)

xx uh you know if you do if you're sure and everything is, looks like it's
xx right that does guarantee it and this has no penalties on it, so in that
xx sense I might recommend that he go ahead and and ticket it

(ok

xx uh) but on the other hand I don't think you'd really risk a lot by waiting
xx if you prefer to do that

let's go on and do it

xx go ahead and ticket it ok

yeah

xx ?? there's no penalties so even if he finds out oh I wanted to go out on
xx Sunday  rather than Monday it shouldn't be any really difficulty in
xx changing it, so I'll set these up for ticketing tomorrow then

ok 

xx [limo]

ok.  also I am going to be personal tr- uh travel going back to Chicago around
the Christmas holiday.  when do I need to make reservations and can I, I
will definitely be staying over the Saturday night is there

xx I wouldn't wait too much longer it's amazing

oh

xx you know by the end of s- like August some markets start to, you could
xx probably at least still get it in September you know probably by October
xx though you'll find it really difficult to find the excursion space

But (I should definitely

xx the most the most) inexpensive ah

I should definitely do it in July?

xx uh well I mean you you really guarantee it now

xx [monologue on pros and cons of early ticket purchase]

xx so you see you sort of weigh the guaranteeing that you get the lowest
xx fare per right now I mean what they sell right now against possible changes
xx in your itinerary or possible changes in the fares by the airline.

what are we looking at round trip, cheapo

xx to to where?

to Chicago

xx (Chicago

from SFO), or San Jose I don't care

xx it's probably going to about the same.  actually do do you have dates in
xx mind I could just have a look and see what they look like right now

ohh either Friday the twenty second or Saturday the twenty third and
returning uh the twenty seventh or twenty eighth Wednesday or Thursday

xx ok at this point both dates are wide open.  uh as far as the dates you've
xx just given me the only thing that would affect your fare is Thursday the
xx twenty eighth. uh the breakoff point between weekday fares and weekend fares
xx is at twelve noon Thursdays, so if you came back leaving after noon on
xx Thursday you would pay a little bit h- higher than you would before that
xx or on Wednesday

Ahhh!

xx but otherwise the Friday Saturday is the same fare it's considered weekend.
xx uh and there's a few flights that show a f- a few a little space sold but
xx hardly any for the most part those are wide open dates at this point.  let
xx me just look at the fares.
xx the fare I'm getting coming back on Wednesday or before noon on Thursday
xx on United is three seventy three round trip it looks like that's based
xx on a a slightly higher fare on the outbound.  they've blacked out the
xx lowest fare on that day on the twenty second.  the return though is using
xx the lowest fare.
xx So it's still non refundable a little bit more than what you'd pay if it
xx was not Christmas but not by much

xx [chatter]

xx but for that fare uh well it has to be purchased at least fourteen days in
xx advance which I'm sure you'll do because if you waited until fourteen
xx days at Christmas time you wouldn't get the 

yeah

xx ?? anyway

no way

xx uh uh it's like I said non refundable and they don't allow you to hold
xx a reservation without ticketing, so

ok

xx like I you know I said uh t-this is  a guess and I can't guarantee
xx it but I would say you'd probably be safe waiting through e- into September.
xx you know and ?? but the longer you wait too there may still be space but
xx you may have to be more flexible in your times.
xx you know the more in advance you make the reservation the more chance you
xx have of having exactly the flight you want.

xx [chatter about Christmas]

will there be much difference between the Friday and the Saturday?

xx uh right now I'm showing them both wide open um I think they're both
xx going to be really bad days because they're the beginning of a weekend

yeah

xx [more chatter]

ok thanks again

xx you're welcome

(Bye Bye

xx Bye Bye)



