

xx  Transcription for American Express tape 20:  A ?-??-89

A.B.

xx  Hi Mr. B this is C with American Express

yeah hi

xx [recording notification]

ah yes I called to make arrangements for a trip to Vancouver leaving on August nineth and returning on August tenth (from

xx um)

SFO

xx ok this is a new reservation here

it's a new reservation

this is A B [spells name] not [alternative name]

xx not [repeats alternative name] ok yeah I was a little confused there
xx one second here 
xx and do you have a charge number at this time

xx ... [break in transcript]

xx ok going up to Vancouver you said on the eigth of August

on the nineth 

xx the nineth

Wednsday the nineth back Thursday the tenth

xx ok and this is from San Francisco

yeah

xx and about what time did  you want to leave

ah what's your first one or two morning flights on the nineth

xx ok there's a Delta nonstop at seven forty a.m.

mm hmm

xx that gets in at nine forty the next nonstop is going to be the next non stop is sold out

probably United

xx yes the one second Canadian Air

oh ok

xx United uh at eleven ten is would stop down

n-n- that's too late

xx yeah

um

xx that Delta flight looks the best

ok that's Delta flight what and when again

xx Delta flight fourteen oh nine on the nineth of August out of San Francisco at seven forty and into uh Vancouver at uh nine forty

ok

xx and then continuing or returning on what date

ah returning the tenth

xx returning the tenth right

let's get ah two options in here one will be coming back uh direct say leaving around uh five p.m. or so

xx mm hmm

and the other option will be leaving a little earlier stopping over in Seattle for a few hours and then coming back down, so let's just go the direct return leaving around five p.m.

xx ok the two non stops are on Canadian Airlines they are at one forty p.m. and eight p.m. nothing in between there

that's it

xx uh huh

xx ok what about a a change of planes or a quick stop over or one stop maybe in either Portland or Seattle and continuing on down

ok

xx connecting through Seattle there'd be a four forty departure uh on Alaskan Air um it connects up with a United flight at six thirty but let me see what you'd how long do you want would you prefer in ah un Seattle

um  if I stop over Seattle I'll want a few hours so what I'll want to do is um probably not leave Seattle until about eight thirty or so

xx would you still you would still want to leave around the four o'clock five o'clock hour

yeah

xx ?? yeah

ok

xx yeah well that's one the other thing is I'll look at ah moving that up a bit

uh huh

xx to say four o'clock three thirty

uh huh
second

xx but for the moment let's just consider that four thirty Alaska

ok

and that then you're saying connects with a six thirty United 

xx right there's a four thirty eight on United let me look at that instead
xx and then expand your return
xx ok there's um 
xx a like I could get you on a four thirty eight United out of Vancouver it's into Seattle at five twenty five

mm hmm

xx ah I see a seven fourty five p.m. departure on United let me see if there's something later here
xx uh looks like we might need to get you something earlier if you want that kind of time in Seattle ah seven fifty is the last flight out

seven fifty is the last anybody has out of

xx uh huh

Seattle

xx correct

oh I thought I'd been there later than that uh    
not even a one stop or a non stop

xx ah let me get you on a on a one stop here
xx wait even a one stop that's that's showing to be the last flight out

that's it

xx uh huh

?? back to the airport by seven fifteen ok

xx right

um ok so you said at the moment you've got a a four thirty eight United out of Vancouver five twenty five into Seattle 

xx uh huh

and I guess a couple of United connections but the latest is seven forty five

xx correct

and that get get's back in the bay area at what time

xx at nine thirty four

nine thirty four

ok if I took what would be the normal direct connection from that four thirty eight

xx the normal connection would be a five fifty five departure getting you back in at seven forty eight

seven forty eight ok why don't you go ahead and ticket me on that ?? for the return so I'll take that four thirty eight United five twenty five and then departing again five fifty five

xx ok we've got you then on United flight one one five seven on the tenth of August out of woops one second one second hold on just a second I grabbed the wrong flight one second ok that's United sorry one zero four one

one zero four one out of Vancouver

xx at four thirty eight

right

xx into Seattle at five twenty five

uh huh

xx connecting to United one one three seven

one one three seven

xx leaving Seattle at five fifty five

xx and getting into San Francisco at seven forty eight

ok and informational purposes the last Untied flight and almost one of the last direct flights is seven forty five and what is that flight number

xx ah that flight number is United flight one zero eight nine

one zero eight nine
ok so I'm up on Delta as a non stop at seven forty and I'm back on United at ah four thirty eight the next day 

xx that's correct

ok

xx the fare on this is three hundred and seventy six seventy

ok uh three seventy six seventy is there any

xx no restrictions on it

no restrictions none ok

xx and I do need to advise you you do need to bring proof of U- United States citizenship

yep

xx ok

yeah ok 

xx and what about a car or hotel up there

....

ok thank you then

xx thank you 

ok bye

xx bye

xx -----

xx Hi A

um I just talked to C.D.

xx [recording notification]

yeah um let's see on the return 

xx mm hmm

um let's see you you mentioned that there was the American flight and there was also a Un- United flight

xx that's correct

ok what time does the uh United flight return

xx ok one second

xx the United flight leaves at five forty and gets in at ten eleven
xx connects through Denver

that goes through Denver ok

xx mm hmm

um ok why didn't we go ahead and book him on the um American flight leaving at six twenty two 

xx ok

through Dallas

xx ok one second
xx that's American flight six twenty seven on the second of August out of Newark at six twenty two p.m.

mmm hmm

xx into Dallas at eight forty five p.m.
xx connecting to American flight three nine nine
xx leaving Dallas at nine forty four p.m. and getting into San Jose a at eleven fourteen p.m.

ok

xx ok I'm looking one second here

so that's ah a DC ten from Newark to Dallas and then a DC nine from Dallas to to San Jose

xx uh let me check that again that is a DC ten correct 

uh huh

xx and a DC nine you're right

ok

xx coming back
xx um

now on the um on the outbound

xx mm hmm

uh why d- don't you just leave the reservation as is

xx ok

because he's not going to be able to upgrade anyway

xx he's not

no, no he's not so um just leave um leave

xx it as it be ok
xx the fare does go up it jumps up to nine thirty four uh Continental's just a little cheaper market then American is

ok

xx and we'll go ahead and set that up for reticket I don't show that he has an American frequest flyer number in his in his profile here does he have one do you know

xx ... [break in transcript]

Hi A.

xx hi

yeah I'm sorry I ne- I need to um change that to United on the return

xx on the return

yeah

xx ok hold on just a second

and I have his United um mileage plus number

xx ok we've got that number in the system her I believe oops no we do not

xx ... [break in transcript]

xx that fare will be nine thirty four

ok

xx and what we've got him on is United  flight two eighty one oops on the second of August out of um Newark at um five forty p.m.

uh huh 

xx into Denver at seven forty three p.m.

ok

xx connecting to United flight eight sixty one

mm hmm

xx leaving Denver at eight thirty six p.m.
xx and getting into San Jose at ten eleven p.m.

ok

xx let me check seating on this

...[break in transcript]

ok thank you

xx thank you

mm hmm bye

xx bye now

xx -----

xx Express A. speaking

yes I need some round trip airfares

xx [recording notification]

xx and this is just for a quote

yeah full coach

xx ok

and all departing from San Francisco

xx ok what's the first destination

ah West Palm Beach

xx one second

xx that would be four eighty eight each direction
xx oops w- wait a second hold on a second sorry about that that is five ninety six each direction

ok Pheonix

xx that would be two ninety five each direction

Cleveland

xx four ninety eight each direction

Louisville

xx five fifteen each direction

Columbus

xx and we are talking Columbus, Ohio correct

yes

xx five hundred each direction

Tulsa

xx four twenty two each direction

Indianapolis

xx you got a lot of projects going

xx ah four seventy eight each direction

Milwauke

xx four eighty eight each direction

and the last one is Oklahoma City

xx and that's four oh two each direction

ok thanks a lot

xx you're welcome

bye bye

xx bye now

xx -----

xx This is B.

hi B. how you doing

hi 

xx [recording notification]

ok um I have two reservations to make

xx ok this is for Mr. C.

one of them is yeah

xx let's take him first cause I like him

oh well 
good I'm glad

xx ... [break in transcript]

xx ok and what date does he want to travel

the second of August

xx out of San Francisco let me guess he's going to Washington

No ha ha ha ha I should have bet you we'll be going to Denver Colorado this time

xx ... [break in transcript]

xx ok and does he want to fly Continental or United

United

xx and when about what time does he want to leave

um after work on that day so hmm were talking eighteen thirty or nineteen

xx ok we can get him that six- eighteen forty rather

eighteen forty

xx and continuing or returning when

umm  umm he'll come back on the third

xx and again late afternoon

uh no this time around fourteen hundred or fifteen hundred

xx ... [break in transcript]

xx uh I can get her get him on a fourteen ten flight

hey

xx on United other than that it's Continental at fifteen hundred

no United's fine

xx ok

xx ...[break in transcript]

xx ok we've got him on United flight three forty six on the second of August leaving San Francisco at what is that fourteen forty getting into Denver at

??

xx twenty two oh two

xx can you hold on one sec

yeah

xx thanks

xx they hung up they don't want to talk to me

uh

xx um leaving at six-eighteen forty right(not

xx xx ???)leaving at yeah yah right it goes that way eighteen forty

arriving when 

xx at twenty two oh two

twenty two oh two 

xx and returning on the third of August United flight seven seven three

mm hmm

xx out of Denver at fourteen ten and into San Francisco at fifteen forty one

hokey dokey

xx and let's check the seats

xx ...[break in transcript]

ah the other person is it going to be the same itinerary

xx yep

xx ...[break in transcript]

xx ok ah what's the next name

xx [spells name] 

xx ...[break in transcript]

ok I will call you back with the charge number

xx ok

xx ...[break in transcript]

bye bye

xx mmm bye



