

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 14a:  D 6-22-89


??

xx Hi this is D with American Express Travel

Hi

xx Hi I just wanted to um first of all I have a couple of things I want to
xx ask you about your trip to Burbank tomorrow

yeah I'd like to find out about it too

xx [recording notification]

xx all righty umm yeah Mr. B had made the reservation for both you and
xx himself umm

ok

xx I can give you the flights rundown if if you'd like to hear (those

I think) I let's see I let me ok go ahead I I have a note that and I I'll
double check the information ??

xx ok um he's go- got you booked on US Air flight twenty seven hundred

right

xx leaving tomorrow morning at six fifty five a.m. from San Francisco 

right

xx arrival in Burbank is at eight eleven

right

xx and then coming home on U- United flight number nine five nine out of
xx Burbank at seven twelve

ok

xx and arrival San Fran at eight thirty six

ok

xx [charge number]

c-could you also tell me what alternate flights and we were going to be
involved in meetings and traffic and all that sort of thing

xx mm hmm

could you a- a- are there any alternate flights from uh Burbank to to um

xx (SFO

SFO) around that period say we miss the seven twelve one

xx yeah let's see.  no the seven twelve is going to be the last flight that
xx we had umm (that is from Burbank

so we abs- so we absolutely) need to make that one

xx yeah that that would be from Burbank
xx Now departing from um LA

Yeah LAX might be another alternative 

xx there's um there's a flight at nine p.m. on United there's also one on
xx US Air there's also one on American

ok

xx and aside from that there might even be one at eight now US Air's
xx eight o'clock is sold out, American and United both have eight o'clock
xx flights um if you miss the seven twelve I can give you all the flight
xx numbers if you need them

no actually that's not important it's just i- i- I just wanted to
understand what the alternatives are in case we get tied up in a
meeting or traffic or something

xx right

um but there's eight o'clock and nine o'clock flights on uh United US Air
and what was the last one?

xx and American

American

xx and also um ten o'clock even

ok (you don't need to go that far

xx from LAX)

ok great 

xx ok

xx [chatter, charge number, payment]

thanks a lot

xx bye bye

bye


xx -----


xx Good Afternoon American Express this is D

oh hi D I need an airfare for a proposal

xx ok from where to where

SFO to Kwalalampour

xx oh my ok and let's see

say mid July

xx mid July ok.  let's see hold on a second while I pull it up

give me an airport

xx code 

code yeah

xx ok.  ok it's kul

ok

xx now let's see if we get a quote here.  ah full coach?

yeah

xx all right round trip it's twenty three thirty eight or twenty excuse me
xx twenty two thirty eight

twenty two thirty eight that's coach 

xx that's coach

now they can go business that far can't

xx uh huh

ok

xx business is going to be round trip twenty six twenty six

twenty six twenty six ok thank you very much

xx sure.  (bye bye

bye)


xx -----


xx Good afternoon American Express this is D

yes um ah I'm trying to find out what the earliest flight is um either
for next Tuesday or Wednesday for Las Vegas from San Francisco

xx [recording notification]

sure, there's um there's an auto show or design auto or something like
tha- in Las Vegas and it it's at nine thirty and it ends at six so something
that has to be has to be in uh (Las Vegas about nine

xx yeah didn't didn't you call earlier?)

I called from Los A- San Jose now they say now find out from San Francisco.
(I don't know how much this is ??

xx oh no, ok.)  um as far as yeah from San Fran it's it's not much better.
xx the earliest flight I have would get in at nine forty one

uhhhh even if uh it's connecting?

xx that's a non stop er that's a a direct flight meaning it would make a stop
xx but they don't have to get off and change flights, um connecting would
xx get in at nine fifty nine that's the earliest flight

nine fifty nine the other one was nine forty one so they'd be better off uh

xx right 

from San Jose and returning eight oh five through Los Angeles right

xx ah let's see back to San Fran.  right

ok 

xx ok

thank you

xx uh huh (bye bye

bye)


xx -----



xx Good afternoon American Express this is D

xx [wrong number mixup]

can you tell me what the lowest rate uh going now is for round trip to
from San Francisco to Seattle

xx ok let me take a look
xx I'm doing a fare shop right now.  umm. round trip looks like hoo wee umm
xx six hundred and ten dollars looks like the round trip that's the lowest

ok and do you know if they

xx that doesn't seem right though.  that seems like there's got to be something
xx lower than that.  wait a minute

?? service only

xx actually if you book seven days in advance and and book with a a penalty
xx fare just like a nonrefundable

right

xx you can get it for about two fifty eight (round trip

ooh)

xx or if you went with a that would be excuse me a twenty five percent
xx penalty with seven days advance or if you went with a fourteen day
xx advance nonrefundable that's about two fifty eight two eighteen

so two eighteen (then

xx depending) on the availability yeah

ok that sounds terrific

xx ok thank you very much (D

uh huh) bye

xx bye



