

xx  Transcription for American Express tape 18:  A ?-??-89

xx American Express may I help you


yes this is A. B. and I'd like to make some travel reservations

...

xx ok and what do you need to do

ok in August I need to go to Southbend, Indiana and I want to go on United via Chicago

xx ok one second ok and what time did you want to leave

ok there's uh I want to go from Chicago to Southbend on I believe it's United Express two six eight six

xx ok yeah that leaves at four fifty

four fifty arrives five twenty four

xx right there's a ten a.m. flight out of San Francisc that connects fairly well with that

ah h-  h-  how close is that

xx uh it's flight one twenty six leaves at ten a.m. gets into Chicago at three fifty eight so

yeah

xx it's a little less than an hour

yeah tha- tha- that sounds good

xx ok

is is there one one that gets there just a little bit earlier

xx um

in case of any problems

xx the next one earlier leaves at six fifty and gets there at one oh five which is an awfully long wait

no no ok) so so b- book me on that then

xx ok

can you give me that again

xx uh huh yeah it's United flight twent- uh one twenty six out of San Francisco at ten a.m. and arrives Chicago at three fifty eight and then connecting to a United flight six eighty six out of Chicago at four fifty arriving Southbend at five twenty four

exactly

xx and then a return for you

a return I'm leaving August nine

xx back to San Francisco

yeah but from Chicago

xx oh you're going to get your own way between (Southbend and Chicago

yeah yeah yeah)

xx ok and when did you want to leave Chicago

I want to leave uh Chicago some where around five p.m.

xx ah United also

xx ok there's a four (fifty p.m.  

that sounds) good

xx ok and a five fifty nine

uh four fifty sounds good

xx ok that's United flight one seventy five it leaves four fifty p.m. and arrives San Francisco at seven oh eight p.m.

ok

xx did you need any hotels for this

no I don't need any hotels I'm I'm all set (on everything

xx Do you need) a car

ah no I'll I'll I need a car in uh well I'll I'll worry about the car in Southbend myself

xx ok that's fine

xx and uh do you have my frequent flyer number

xx ... [break in transcript]

and what about United Express twenty six eighty six I'm I'm all set on that one

xx ah yeah you're confirmed on that one

ok now just one more thing eh if I happen to miss a flight is there a later one going into Southbend or am I screwed

xx let me see
xx the next later flight's American at five twenty but (then

ok so)

xx there's a United at six twenty six

ok so there are options

xx yes 

ok
xx very good

ok great

so I'm all set then

xx uh huh thank you I'll have the ticket's over to you today 

well no no I don't need the tickets today

xx oh ok well

no

xx I'll go ahead and run them generally she'll call you if you don't want to pick them up right  away that's fine

xx ... [break in transcript]

ok

xx thank you very much

thank you much

xx bye 

bye

xx -----

xx American Express may I help you

yes A. this is B. I'm calling about a trip for C.D.

xx [recording notification]

...

all right now this is his Montreal trip and that's on Monday

xx ok I see it here uh huh

ok and he needs to go to Montreal 

xx mm hmm

and I understand another group has made the reservations so I need to get the information on that

xx just the information about what we have

yes uh huh

xx ok he's on American flight two sixty two

two six two

xx out of San Francisco at eleven fifty five p.m.

ok

xx arriving Chicago at five fifty six a.m. on the twenty fifth

on the tw- I'm sorry the time again

xx five fifty six a.m.

five fifty six

xx on the twenty fifth of July

ok

xx connecting to American flight six ninety six
xx that's out of Chicago at seven ten a.m. and arrives Montreal at ten oh eight a.m.

ok

xx on his return it's Tuesday the twenty fifth

uh huh

xx American flight one fifty three

ok

xx out of Montreal at eight oh three p.m.

Wait a minute that's an American flight out of

xx mm hmm 

I missed

these are all (American

xx these are all American

yeah

xx ok

xx out of Montreal at eight oh three p.m.

three uh huh 

xx arrives Chicago at nine thirteen p.m.

ok

xx and connects to flight four fifty seven

mm hmm

that's out of Chicago at nine fifty p.m.

xx mm hmm

xx and arrives San Francisco at twelve twenty three a.m. on the twenty sixth so just after midnight

ok good

xx and are we going to be doing the ticketing on these then or is someone else going to be ticketing it

xx ...  [break in transcript]

xx thanks very much A.

ok thank ( you

xx ok) bye bye

mm bye bye

xx -----

I have a travel for uh scheduled leaving leaving on Monday

xx uh huh

to Dallas and I need to make a change

xx ok sure let me pull it up here
xx ok I've got it

ah ok turns out I will be coming back to San Francisco as opposed to going to Chicago

xx ok

so

xx on Wednsday then

xx correct the twenty sixth and there's a United flight nine twenty seven Dallas to Denver and then connecting to San Francisco flight two ninety seven

when does that leave

xx uh it leaves six forty to Dallas eight forty two from Denver

xx yeah flight nine twenty seven  Dallas to Denver leaving at six forty arriving nine

yeah

xx and then United flight two ninety seven Denver to San Francisco leaving at eight forty two or arriving el- ten eleven

correct uh  now that we've got all that and just trying to think it would be wh- what happens to the cost if I change and leave from Oakland 

xx [recording notification] 

xx .... [break in transcript]

xx it would have to be on Am- on United

ah I prefer that

ok let me I'll do it that way

xx ah looks like Oakland doesn't fly that way

xx it looks like it would be slightly cheaper out of Oakland but you would have to connect going to Dallas there's no non stops

hmm

xx ah there's a two twenty five connection through Denver that gets into Dallas at like nine thirty around nine thirty in the evening coming back you could take the same six forty flight it just connects to another flight to Oakland rather then to San Francisco  it's at nine fifty nine

yeah what I really need to do is check with my wife to see if she can pick me up
xx ah (lets

uh)
xx uh huh

l- l- let's book it through ah San Francisco and if if I need to change I'll get back to you as soon as I can

xx ok otherwise do you want me to set up for a new ticket to be run for you because you sh- should have a new ticket

xx ...[break in transcript]

xx and will you cancel the then both the flight to Chicago and the flight from Chicago

I already have and everything in Chicago

xx ...[break in transcript]

ok I I had what's what's the total cost on that then

xx nine forty six out of Sa- San Francisco nine twenty four out of Oakland 

ok and is it less be- on on the way back because of the stop

xx ah I don't believe so I think it's just different fares you know Oakland has slightly different fares to Dallas than

m ok

than you know San Francisco does

xx y- yeah it turns out there's an earlier United flight a three forty- it leaves at three forty three flight four four nine

coming back you mean

xx yeah

although that stops someplace too doesn't it

xx let me check
xx two forty three that is a one stop flight yes

yes

xx see where it stops it stops in Denver

Denver 

xx or arrives at four forty five and departs again at five forty one
xx so a little over an hour

I don't think I can make it to that one so let's let's leave it the way we have it
and and and I will call back to confirm 

xx ok right I won't ticket without your approval on it 

ok

xx ok

thank you very much A.

xx thank you

bye bye

xx bye 

xx -----

xx ??agency services this is A. speaking

yeah hi A. this is B. at American Express

xx hi B.

could you pull up a reservation for me please

xx certainly

xx it's flight nine twenty seven on the twenty sixth of July Dallas to
xx Denver and the last name is C. [spells name]

a which is this D.

xx right D.

ok

ah I want to see if I can get seats for him on those flights nonsmoking aisles if possible

xx ...[break in transcript]

great thank you very much for your help

xx thank you

bye bye

xx bye

xx -----

I wanted to uh um get a flight um to Los Angeles and back uh leaving on Friday uh 

xx ok who am I speaking with

ah this is A.B.

xx [recording notification]

...[break in transcript]

xx ok all right I'm sorry your last name is

ah B. [spells name]

xx ok and is this a business trip we're doing

no

this is personal

xx mm hmm

xx ok and the date you wanted to go to Los Angeles is

uh Friday July twenty eighth

xx from San Francisco or San Jose
v
um whichever's cheaper
and I wanted to return on Monday July thirty first

xx a- a- when afternoon er

ah actually

??

ah yeah um evening would be fine

xx ok I think I'm going to check the fare should be the same out of either airport let me just check here
xx ok it's it's going to be the same airfare out out of ei- either airport

ok

xx it's ninety eight round trip

it's going to be ninety eight for round trip

xx ninety eight round trip on a non refundable non changable ticket

ah would it have been cheaper if I had called a couple weeks in advance

xx ah twenty one days in advance there lower fares into Los Angeles

and how much is that

xx uh let me check here
xx those are seventy eight round trip

hmm ok um well um I guess ninety eight's ok then
ah would the price have gone up if I had called just a couple days in advance

xx yes

ok

xx airfare you have to have at least a seven day advance purchase

oh

xx for the ninety eight and that's today's the last day to buy it for the twenty eigth and it would have gone up to one eighteen and then it would  have gone up to ah one forty eight one way well they have a ninety eight one way and then a one forty eight one way

ouch

xx so it jumps up pretty high

yeah ok um well that would be fine then um see the time on Friday that I'd like to depart would be evening um preferably around seven o'clock

xx if you could leave at like on ein the morning I could get you a low airfare they only have one flight a day

oh really

xx now let me just let me check their times and I'll tell you what now going out isn't bad it's coming back that's bad
xx ok they have fare of sixty eight round trip

really

xx going out it's a nine p.m. arrinvind ten fifteen p.m. coming back it's one oh five in the morning getting in at two twenty in the morning

that's fine

xx you want to do that

for sixty eight dollars

xx sixty eight dollars nonrefundable non changable today's the deadline for for buying that ticket

ok now you were saying that it leaves on Friday when

xx ok Friday it's a nine p.m. arriving ten fifteen

ok that

xx and coming back it's a one oh five in the morning

one oh five on Tuesday morning

xx yeah ah let me see the table on Tuesday hold on for the first of August
xx ok it is available on Tuesday morning at one oh five in the morning getting into San Francisco at two twenty in the morning

ok

xx you want to book that

yeah that sounds just perfect actually um so the departure time is nine o'clock on Friday

xx yes

is that is that the only departure time

xx they only have one flight a day that's it that's all they have

ok

xx ok that's why their fare is lower then everyone else's they only have they don't have any competition they have one flight um it's Continental eight two four on the twenty eighth of July departing San Francisco nine p.m. arriving Los Angeles ten fifteen p.m. Continental one three three on the first of August Tuesday departing Los Angeles one oh five a.m. arrivng San Franciscso two twenty a.m.

two twenty (ok

uh huh)
xx is this going to be put on a credit card 

xx ...[break in transcript]

xx ok so this ticket is non refundable non changable and today is the deadline for ticketing

xx ...[break in transcript]

xx ok 

that sounds good

xx all right

thanks

xx thansk for calling
bye bye

xx bye


