

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 9ab:  A 6-9-89


yes I'd like to make a travel arrangement please

xx [recording notification]

xx ok one second and what's the name of the last the last name of the
xx passenger?

B [spells name]

xx and a first name

C.  you know I have to get a travel advance can I give you a call right
back?

xx sure, no problem

xx [ending call and returning]

xx and which day would Mr. B like to travel?

umm he's departing on June fourteenth going from San Jose to Burbank
leaving at six forty p.m. 

xx ok and returning on which day?

uhh June sixteenth 

xx and at what time?

umm, leaving four fifteen pm from Burbank

xx ok we have him on US Air flight twenty six fifty on the fourteenth of June
xx out of San Jose at six forty p. m. and into Burbank at seven forty two p.m.

ok

xx He's returning on the sixteen of June, on US Air flight twenty six sixty
xx five leaving Burbank at four fifteen p.m. and getting back into San Jose
xx at five twenty p.m.

ok

xx and the fare on this is a hundred and ninety eight dollars

ok um I think we'd like to pay just with the full fare  umm because he could
change his mind

xx yeah this is full fare there is no penalties or anything

great

xx [car rental, ticketing]

xx you'll have it on Monday

thank you so much A

xx thank you D

Bye Bye

xx Mm bye now


xx -----


xx American Express A speaking

Hi uh this is B C I want to go to New York Monday morning

xx [recording notification, profile]

ok I went there last Wednesday could you just uh d- do the same thing you did
for me then?

xx [charge number]

xx ok let me check to see if um we still have that old record
xx one second.   ok shhs see you flying on Pa- uh on Pan Am

why don't we do that (yeah

xx on that special) fare

yeah

xx ok and same class of service

same class

xx ok

xx [project number]

xx kay let me check on that flight one second

leaving Monday morning coming back Friday night Friday aftern-

xx I don't have the complete history in front of me, what time did you come
xx back was that the six o'clock flight?

It's ah five forty five Pan Am

xx ok

xx [limousine reservation]

xx and this will be at the fare of lets see ?? it'll be one thousand sixty
xx dollars

right

xx ok, and was there anything else

no I guess that's it

xx [more on limo, ticketing]

fine thank you

xx you're welcome

bye 

xx bye now


xx -----


xx A speaking

Hi this is B C at WWW

xx Hi Mr. C

I was wanting to make some arrangements for a trip that I'm going to be
taking uhh to LA uh beginning of the week after next see (eighteenth
nineteenth twentieth

xx [recording notification]

xx ok ah let me pull up your profile and I'll be right with you here

xx [profile, charge number]

xx and you said you wanted to travel next week?

uh yes uh it I I- have to be in LA a couple of different places actually on
the nineteenth and twentieth, now I'm going to be down  in San Diego on
personal business uh the previous weekend the sixteenth seventeenth and
eighteenth

xx uh huh 

and basically I have to get into ah ah or near the Ontario airport for the
Sunday night and I leave out of the Irvine which I guess is John Wayne
Airport on the Tuesday. 

xx ok

I guess the first question I had was uh are there
flights from San Diego to the Ontario airport in uh in LA or outside LA I
guess if (I

xx let me see)

if there's a real problem there I might keep a car which I'll have and simply
drive up

xx ok there's only two direct or nonstop flights from San Diego to Ontario and
xx they're both in the morning on Sunday

Are they?

xx uh huh          		

I think I'm going to forget that

xx Otherwise I'd be I'd be routing you through um through Los Angeles

Seems a little ridiculous I think

xx uh huh now do you have to be there on uh Sunday mo- Sunday night or Monday
xx morning?

uh uh i- i- it would be Monday uh uh Sunday night yeah

xx Well there's a like I say a seven a.m. flight in the morning (out of San
xx Diego

??) no,no,no,no

xx ok

no, no, no obviously then uh I ha- as far as getting there I'll do it under my
own steam

xx ok

I'll just keep the rent a car that I'll have  for personal reasons uh for that
weekend

xx ok

Umm

xx so on the twentieth you want me to ( look at the return

xx [hotel reservation]

that's wonderful so what it boils down to is just one flight getting
out of there

xx ok (on the twenty

uh now it wi- will be near the John Wayne Airport I guess it i- it is John
Wayne in Irvine (isn't it?

xx yes,) yes it is

and um and um as far as I can see we're going to have a pretty full day
meeting on the on Tuesday the twentieth uh I think I ought to be looking at
a flight out of there perhaps no earlier than round about seven o'clock

xx ok is this going (back to

back to back to San Francisco)

xx to San Francisco

yeah

xx excuse me there's an American flight at seven thirty

oh no I was going to say that if I had my choice I'd pick American simply
because I've got the uh advantage

xx mm hmm

I I'm sorry I (my enthusiasm ??

xx Yeah) yeah the um let me see here we've got you on American flight nine
xx thirty eight 

yep

xx leaving on the twentieth of June out of Orange County John Wayne Airport
xx at seven thirty p.m.

seven thirty

xx and into uh San Francisco at eight fifty seven

that sounds great

xx ok
xx and that is ninety nine dollars one way

and uh I think that's going to do it, those two ho- hotel reservations and and
the one flight

xx you're all set then

xx [ticketing]

ok) fine thank you very much for your help

xx you're quite welcome

have a good weekend

xx you too

bye

xx bye now 


xx -----



xx eight thirty five p.m.

uh huh

xx he's returning on the thirteenth of June on United flight one one one
xx eight leaving Los Angeles at four p.m. and arriving into San Francisco
xx at five thirteen p.m.

mmm hmm

xx and the fare is two hundred and thirty four dollars and sixty four cents

xx [seating, car]

xx ok.  almost finished here.  ok you said you had a second reservation?

yes, please umm ar- are we done with um B?

xx yes we are

yes um the second reservation is for D E, last name is E as
in the month E.

xx [charge number]

xx and FFFF, what day would he like to travel?

uh he wants to go San Francisco to Phoenix on Monday June nineteenth uh
Southwest six seven eight out of San Francisco at four ten p.m. into
Phoenix at eh five fifty five

xx and returning or continuing on what date?

returning on Tuesday June twentieth on United one four three six out of
Phoenix at six thirty five p.m. and into San Francisco at eight thirty three

xx ok we've requested Southwestern flight six seventy eight that uh leaves
xx on the nineteenth of June out of San Francisco at four ten p.m.
xx arriving into Phoenix at five fifty five p.m.

uh 

xx and as I say request because they're not in our system we will actually
xx phone and have to confirm this reservation with (Southwestern

right)

xx ok  and then returning on the twentieth w- he's on United flight fourteen
xx thirty six leaving Phoenix at six thirty five p.m. and arriving back into
xx San Francisco at eight thirty three p.m.

ok

xx and the fare on this is one hundred and sixty two dollars

one sixty two

xx that's correct 

xx [car rental]

ok great

xx ok

thank you A

xx you're quite welcome FFFF

hmm mhh (bye bye

xx bye now)




