

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 13:  A 6-19-89


Hey A I was wondering if you could handle some some reservations for me

xx [recording notification]

xx ok

so umm I it's it's um for my own my own flight I want to fly from San
Francisco to Syracuse New York

xx ok and what's your last name?

ah C

xx oh this is B B?

no D

xx [creating profile, deciding form of payment]

xx and you want to travel ag- again on what day now?

umm it depends on on when the flights are I I I could leave late Friday
after work um on the eighth of September and if that doesn't work out
then I I could go the morning of the ninth of September

xx ok were going San Francisco to Syracuse it's just going to be a simple
xx round trip?

right uh huh

xx and you want the lowest fare available

yes that's that's really what I'm I'm after

xx ok and do you have a preference as to airlines?  it's going to be wide open
xx on all of them at th- this far in advance

um I don't I don't I know Delta airlines flies to Rochester but I don't
think it goes to Syracuse I like Delta airlines.  umm but no, outside of
that I it's American US Air I think are our

xx ok

they have a lot of flights too

xx ok one second.  'kay you're looking at something that's going to be uhh
xx after work on Friday?

yeah

xx ok the last flight out is going to be at one forty seven p.m. on TWA in
xx terms of something that will get you there the same day that would get
xx in at just about midnight

mm hmm

xx after that it becomes red eye flights

ok I don't know if I want to want to to do a red eye, why don't we look
at uh Saturday morning

xx Saturday morning?

uh huh

xx and how early would you like to get to the airport, we have flights
xx starting at six fifteen a.m.

oh umm 

xx that would get you there at four o'clock

four o'clock

xx ummm hmmm

and it's six fifteen a.m.?

xx yes

um hmmm ?? that early uh and what's what's the next one?

xx ok then we have one at six forty a.m. which would get you there at four
xx thirty six

mm hmmm

xx umm couple right around that time period and then it jumps to seven forty
xx a.m. getting you there at five eleven

hmm ok why don't why don't we take the seven forty flight

xx ok

which which carrier is that?

xx that is US Air

ok is it uh non stop or

xx no all of these are going to be connecting flights

through Pittsburg?

xx uhh this particular one connects through Cleveland

ok

xx and returning on what date?

umm on ah Sunday the seventeenth of September

xx and morning or afternoon?

umm early morning

xx ok US Air flight has a flight at seven fifty five a.m. 

ok

xx connecting through Pittsburg it gets you back into San Francisco at eleven
xx fifty three a.m.

ok that sounds fine

xx ok one second

and that's through Pittsburg?

xx that's correct 

ok

xx ok we're getting a fare here of three hundred and ninety eight dollars
xx round trip.  has a hundred percent penalty on it no changes once the uhh
xx ticket is issued

ok that's fine

xx ok it is telling us that it has to be ticketed within twenty four hours of
xx making the reservation, that means tomorrow

ok 

xx if you want to keep this reservation

xx [more on payment]

xx ok we have you on US Air flight one one six

mm hmm

xx on the ninth of September out of San Francisco at seven forty a.m.
xx into Cleveland at three nineteen p.m.

ok

xx uh you're connecting there with US Air flight five ninety three (leaving

five) five ninety three?

xx uh huh

leaving Cleveland

xx leaving Cleveland at four ten p.m.

mm hmm

xx and getting into Syracuse at five eleven p.m.

?? ok

xx we have you returning on the seventeenth of September on US Air flight
xx five zero seven

mm hmm

xx out of Syracuse at seven fifty five a.m. into Pittsburg at nine oh five a.m.

mm hmm

xx connecting to US Air flight thirty one

mm hmm

xx leaving Pittsburg at nine forty five a.m.

mm hmm

xx and getting into San Francisco at eleven fifty three a.m.

all right ok that's good

xx fare on this is three hundred and ninety eight dollars

mm hmm

xx it is totally non refundable

xx [ticketing, seating]

ok great ok ok I think we're all set right?

xx [car]

ok thank you

xx sure thing

bye bye

xx bye now


xx -----


xx American Express A speaking

Hi A.  B C again

xx Hi Mr. C

I uh wanted to check to see if it was possible to reput me back on that
two twenty nine flight

xx uhhh one second here.  I'm showing that flight as being sold out completely

sold out completely ok well keep me where I am then

xx all righty

ok thanks

xx sure thing

(bye

xx bye)


xx -----


xx American Express A speaking

Hi this is B C

xx Hi B

xx [recording notification]

xx ok how can I help you

um Doctor D  spelled D like in [spelling] is interested in
the cost of a flight on Delta airlines on July fourteenth which is a Friday
and he needs to leave early in the morning and he doesn't know a flight
number or a time

xx ok where's he going from to?

He's going from San Francisco to Tampa's um Saint Pete's

xx uh huh ok Delta has a flight at seven oh five a.m.

uh huh

xx that connects through
xx Dallas that would get him in to Tampa at four thirty five p.m.

at four thirty five?

xx mm hmm

ok

xx and they have another flight at eight twenty five a.m. that connects
xx through Atlanta which would get in at six ten, fare is gonna be a
xx lot higher for that one

which one the (the

xx for the eight) twenty five a.m. departure

oh never mind then cause we're looking for the cheapest way

xx [personal vs. business trip]

xx ok.  what day's he returning?

the sixteenth that's a Sunday

xx ok and about what time on the sixteenth?

and he said around six p.m.

xx ok one second.  doing a little pricing now, I'll take just a second longer

all right

xx you said by the lowest fare available you- we are talking like a non
xx refundable fare correct?  that would be uh something in the range of
xx four hundred to four hundred and ten dollars round trip

four ten round trip

xx uh huh

ok now I want to ask you something else

xx now to tell you for the times on that keeping him on Delta coming back

mm hmm

xx I'd have to keep him for that kind of fare I would have to keep him on
xx the same fl- airline coming back as I sent him out on

mm hmm

xx te- uh Delta their last flight would be at four thirty five p.m.

mm hmm

xx in co- connecting through Dallas would get in at eight forty there are
xx later flights but not on Delta

ok that's fine uh he got some information from this conference he's going to

xx uh huh

xx [about the conference]

and they have said that uh they they recommended somebody down in Saint
Petersburg Beach, calling somebody down there to get a forty percent
off a a domestic round trip coach fare

xx mm hmm well just to let you know what the coach fare is there

yeah

xx one second normally the conference rates do offer some discount like that 

mm hmm

xx but it's not as usually as good as taking the uh the penalty fare

mm hmm

xx Coach fare is one thousand sixty dollars

mmmm!

xx uh so sixty percent of that would be

six hundred and thirty six dollars

xx six hundred and thirty six dollars

yeah uh huh.  ok and it I they also included here a Delta file code number

xx uh huh
xx we we can use that if you want to go ahead for the conference rate

we can

xx I I would need that code number to apply for that conference rate

ok but then that's two hundred dollars more than this non refundable

xx it is true there is no penalty attached to the conference rate

uh huh

xx uh whereas th- this non refundable is non refundable but if it's you know
xx it is two hundred dollars more if he can ah go with the penalty he's
xx going to come out ahead with the um the non conference rate

but I could I could still give you this Delta file code number and and
I could do it through you instead of having to deal with these people
down in Saint Petersburg Beach

xx that is correct

ok great well I'm going to throw this past him and I'll get back to you
later today

xx [hotel]

xx ok now

thank you

xx sure thing

bye


xx -----


xx Uh for whom?

um for me I wanted to know how much it would be for a one way ticket to
Las Vegas

xx to Las Vegas on what date

on the thirtieth

xx the thirtieth of June?

uh huh

xx out of San Francisco?

yes

xx one second.  and that's a Friday were you looking at leaving after work
xx around five p.m.ish or something

um yeah whichever's cheaper

xx ok one second
xx are you only going one way or do you have transportation returning?

um I'd like to find out the one the one way and the round trip

xx ok. ok ah the lowest one way fare out of San Francisco would be on United
xx at two o- two hundred and five dollars one way that's with a twenty
xx five percent penalty

mm

xx it's pretty expensive I think it's a little better out of San Jose let
xx me give you the fare on that

ok

xx ok the lowest one way fare out of San Jose is pricing out at one hundred
xx and sixty five dollars

is there um

xx there's it it's cheaper actually if it's almost the same price if you go
xx round trip 

round trip

xx um for instance I can get you a one hundred and fifty eight dollar twenty
xx five percent penalty round trip fare out of San Jose

yeah that sounds good

xx ah and San Jose is a little better market for going into Las Vegas than
xx San Francisco is

ok and what time would the plane be leaving?

xx ok one second here
xx ok I've got departures now looking at specific flight times the fares
xx are looking a little more sold out than than what I was quoting you ah
xx the best one for farewise would be a America West flight at two ten p.m.
xx out of San Jose at two ten into Las Vegas at three twenty

and how much is that one?

xx ok would that just on a one way fare?

round trip

xx ok and returning about what date?

um it would be on the the fifth

xx the fifth of July?

no the fourth I'm sorry.  (that evening

xx the fourth) ok
xx the very best fare I can get you is a hundred and thirty eight dollars
xx uh on- round trip and that is a non refundable fare that's leaving on
xx the thirtieth at two ten p.m. on America West returning on the fourth
xx at one oh five p.m. if I bring you back at four thirty five p.m. on
xx America West I can get you ah a still a non refundable fare but it
xx would be a hundred and fifty three dollars round trip

ok uh the one thirty eight's good

xx one thirty eight at one oh five p.m.?

ah huh

xx ok do you want uh me to make those reservations for you

yes please

xx [recording notification, name, phone]

xx ok we have you on Amer- confirmed on America West flight eighty eight

(uh huh

xx and this is) on the thirtieth of June out of San Jose at two ten p.m.
xx into Las Vegas at three twenty p.m.

three twenty

xx returning on the fourth of July on America West flight eight eight five

eight eight five

xx leaving Las Vegas at one oh five p.m. and getting back into San Jose at
xx two twenty p.m. the fare on this is one hundred and thirty eight dollars
xx it you do have y- you have to ticket this in order for this reservation
xx to remain intact

uh huh

xx by the end of tomorrow

ok well I can do it right now actually uh

xx [ticketing, seating]

ok thank you

xx you're welcome

bye

xx bye now


xx -----


Good morning, A

xx Good morning Mr. B this is C with American Express returning
xx your call

xx [recording notification]

ah I need to know some prices ah to compare against subcontract

xx ok

ah  I need to go in from San Francisco to Wild Wood, New Jersey and return

xx ok let me check where Wild Wood is here

that's near Atlantic City

xx ok one second.  ok yeah we don't have commercial flights going into
xx Wild Wood Cape May.  what would be the closest would be Atlantic City 

ok

xx and let me see

I need a full coach

xx full coach ok one second
xx ok full coach would be five eighty six each direction

ok next one is simple from 

xx mm hmm

SFO to Washington D.C. and return

xx ok again full coach would be five hundred and thirty one dollars each
xx direction

ok.  and last one, you got me exactly where it is, it's Tok, Alaska t o k

xx t o k?

Yeah, my guess is it's near the ?? or Juno

xx [can't find location]

xx it's in the same time zone as Juno's in

ok then why don't you give me the ah the price for ah, oh it's two
hundred eight miles southeast of Fairbanks

xx ok one second

xx [chatter]

for me so I guess what we've got to do is uh figure into Fairbanks

xx let me look there hold on just a second

now you know ( where it is

xx yeah I) I know where it should be but I mean it's on this in this
xx atlas and um two hundred and eight miles southeast of Fairbanks puts
xx it right in the middle of nowhere.  Fairbanks would be the closest for it.

ok

xx ok one second

from the sound of it that's about where it belongs

xx full Y would be four ninety five oh seven each direction for uh to get
xx him up to uh

to Fairbanks

xx Fa- whoops one second (??

that does) that sounds low

xx yeah Anchorage sorry one second

xx [chatter on cost]

xx seven thirty four sixty three each direction

that sounds more like it

xx yeah

ok

xx ok

thank you very much

xx you're quite welcome

bye

xx mm bye now


