

xx   Transcription for American Express tape 7:  A. 6-1-89


Hello

xx Hi this is A with American Express Travel

Yes I spoke to you 'bout twenty minutes ago about uh Japan around the world

xx Oh right

Can you tell me what it costs for Business Class fo- for uhh round trip
Japan verses Business Class uh ?? around the world's flight

xx Ok I don't know if they offer I don't think they offer a Business uh Class
xx around the world.  It has to be economy

xx [checking rules]

xx Ok I found out umm restrictions also as far as you're inquiring about
xx penalties and stuff

Ok

xx Umm ok San Francisco Tokyo uhh fare quote for business round trip would be
xx twenty one fourteen.  and again the coach was seventeen fourteen.  and then
xx for the twenty ninety nine that was economy but there it is also offered
xx for business.  and first class the business around the world fare would be
xx twenty nine ninety nine and first class thirty nine ninety nine. and that's,
xx again the same of of applications of four stop overs uh for minimum maximum
xx of fifteen.  and the purchase restrictions were twenty one days in advance
xx cancellation within ah or longer then twenty one days prior to the departure
xx you get a
xx full refund, within twenty one days of the flight it's twenty five percent
xx penalty, umm attached to all all of those fares, economy, business and first
xx and if umm bu- in case of illness or death or anything like that it is uh
xx waivable, the twenty five percent

xx [sick clause on requirements]

But that even) applies to these apex and stuff

xx Oh yeah

Ok

xx yeah it applies to any type of fare

xx [more on being ill]

Ok well thanks for that information I (don't think

xx Sure)

I'd be interested in the business class.  it costs more than I thought, but
the guy I'm going with will be flying business and I'll be sitting in the
(back of the plane

xx Oh)

with the cheaper cheap fare

xx [joking about economy]

xx Yeah there you go.  Ok

Th- thanks for your help

xx Sure bye bye

Bye bye


xx -----


xx Good afternoon American Express this is A

A uh this is B again and I talked to C. D. again

xx Mhm

About going from Hong Kong to Moscow. umm he made me feel like their had to
be some other options besides going through Heathrow

xx Ok (uh

There) had to be several different cities you can go through like Beijing,
to Helsinki, there has to be some other options (??

xx [recording notification]

xx umm ok well on, what I do is I ask for connections er flights from Hong Kong
xx to Moscow and that's what it's giving me as available connections

(Ok

xx It's) giving me all the legal connections available and that's what I'm
xx getting is through Heathrow (??

Okay, so i-) if somebody was in some other city and wanted to go to Moscow
there has to be other options doesn't (there

xx Oh) I see what you mean departing from a different city rather than (Hong
xx Kong,

Yeah)

xx oh sure

Sa- i- t- Helsinki and also there has to be some other airlines too ah
that are flying into Moscow besides, you only gave me (British Airways

xx Well) Well, because of the connections, see from Hong Kong to Moscow there
xx are other, what I, ok (this is ?? the entire day

you you what you did was you gave me) you gave me the best (situation

xx Right) and for the entire day for I picked on th- on the twenty fourth of
xx June umm th- the entire day we've got the first thing that that comes up is
xx that nine thirty pm flight (otherwise

Are we) saying that maybe uh that something was filled, I mean there is another
option that we wouldn't ( be aware of
 
xx No) no

Oh ok

xx If it was sold out it would show it to me

Ok that's what I was wondering 

xx Ok yeah, so umm the only other option I have would be a Cathay Pacific
xx flight departing at Hong Kong at ten fifty five p.m. it arrives into
xx London to Gatwick airport at four at five fifty five forty excuse me am and
xx then he'd connect to a British Air flight out of London Heathrow  airport
xx and into th- Moscow, so he'd be going into Gatwick and leaving out of
xx Heathrow, meaning he'd (have to get between the two

Yes, I know I I indicated I said the only) thing that was given to me was
a flight that goes into He- you know was flights going into Heathrow

xx right

He says, well try Helsinki, try Beijing, you know there has to be some
other options to getting into Moscow, (so

xx Ok)

I I don't know and al also he said there has to be other airlines and I
he mentioned a couple I I remebered a couple Aer- is it Aeroflight

xx nkay lets see

And Singapore, do- does, Singapore has a airline

xx See See this is what, when I ask for for Hong Kong, thi- that's what I'm
xx trying to explain, we could try building our own connection (but

Yeah)

xx when I ask Hong Kong Soviet Union that's what it's giving me

Yeah that's right (now

xx Yeah)

uhh perhaps we can build our own like you say

xx Yeah that's maybe that's what he's talking about or  depart from a different
xx city.  if he wants to go for like a three point connection I mean there are
xx three point connections available 

Ok (he

xx such as)

just wants me to get all the options down for him

xx Ok

so he can make a desicion

xx Ok again asking for Hong Kok to uh 

??

xx Moscow there's a (flight

Let's let's) go to another city first maybe that's what he's trying to say
un- unless you can find a three point by going to Moscow

xx Yeah, I can

Ok

xx from Hong Kong which is eh what I'm saying is that uh the next possibility
xx would be Hong Kong to Bangkok
xx to Heathrow to Moscow.  that's the next availability that's coming up and
xx that would be a flight that leaves at six p.m. from Hong Kong and goes on
xx to Bangkok and then he would take another flight to Heathrow and then
xx another ho- flight from Heathrow to Moscow (??

Ok I've got that down as an option ok

xx Ok.  Otherwise there's umm
xx more through Bangkok, there's different carriers Bangkok to Heathrow to
xx Moscow.  as to other carriers aside from that there's one Hong Kong to
xx Tokyo to London to Moscow. everything's going to end up London Moscow (it's
xx just a matter of

Ok let's) try the suggestion about going to Helsinki

xx you mean departing from Helsinki to?  ah or Hong Kong (Helsinki?

?? Can he go) to Hong Kong, oh I see you always have to go you can't go
straight through Hong Kong to

xx to then go through Helsinki then that would we'd have to build our own
xx connection

Ok

xx that would be where we'd have to ask for, we would force, that's called
xx forcing a connection I can ask for umm flights through Helsinki.  now see
xx it's not going to come out let me see twenty four 

Ok let me call you back

xx Ok cause that's (it's

Ok)

xx doesn't look like its (going ??

Ok that's) what I need to find out.  Thank you

xx Uh huh


xx -----


Hi A it's B, but now I'm going to talk about C.D.'s ??

xx Ok

He's leaving on six five

xx Ok hold on a second, how do you spell his last name?

[spells name]

xx [pulling profile]

xx Oh ok on the fifth of June flying to Miami, right? Er (actually

yes)

xx to Orlando and then on to Miami and then (umm

Oh) oh we need to oh yes ok that's a on- no on six six ok on six six
from Orlando to Miami he needs

xx um hm

he needs to arrive in Miami sooner than what shows (so

xx six fifty)

uh huh, so we need to take an earlier flight

xx Ok let's see.  well what time does he want to arrive, how much earlier

about like at least by six, I'm going to put you on hold for just
a second while (you check that out

xx Ok, sure)

thanks I'm back

xx Ok uhh let's see from Orlando to Miami we do have a Delta flight that
xx lands at five twenty, it leaves Orlando at four thirty,
xx There's also a Braniff flight at four fifteen departing that gets in at
xx five fourteen and those are the only ones I have right up you know before
xx six. There's also earlier flights getting in a little after four four
xx fifteen or four thirty.

Ok so if we go from Orlando to Miami on the Delta that would probably
be all right

xx Yeah, that I mean we can, we can go with that one if you want umm let's see
xx his I guess you've already got his tickets?

Have em?

xx You should they were run on the thirty first let me see when G. was yeah
xx they were run yesterday maybe she just hasn't gotten around to calling
xx you with them but I mean that's no big deal we could always ah always change
xx them now let's see what what the new price would be and if we would just
xx reissue the whole ticket or just that one portion or have him revalidate.
xx It was ticketed at a fare of one thousand ninety one and if we go we could
xx get it for um one thousand seventy nine because the Delta flight would price
xx lower than the uh Continental he had been booked on

Ok

xx if we just go ahead and reticket the whole thing, you want to go ahead
xx and and go with the Delta flight?

Sure

xx Ok it's flight eight six five on Tuesday the sixth out at four thirty
xx from Orlando and into Miami at five twenty and let me just make sure
xx that I can get him his umm nonsmoke aisle seat on that one.

xx [seating]

Ok

xx Same deal and its a non penalty fare of one thousand seventy nine

thank you 

xx uh huh

Bye


xx -----


I would like to get uhh some fare information

xx [recording notification]

xx Oh, ok so what what type of fare do you want to go or (know about

ok)
ok this is umm a round trip from San Francisco to Stockholm

xx ok

and basically what I want to know is the what the business class and the
first class fares are

xx ok, all right let's take a look here uh will there be any particular date
xx that you're be looking into?

Ah it would probably be uh leaving on June seventeenth and flying back
uh the following Saturday

xx ok, and what about any particular carrier that you're looking into 

Ah no, I have I have ah no preference

xx ok

We're, basically the issue is that uh the client's asking us to travel on
our own time on weekends

xx mmm

um you know to fly to Sweden and back

xx oh

and we're thinking about whether we should ask them to pay for first
class travel

xx Ah I see ok yeah yeah make 'em pay, no let's see we've got  well it depends
xx on what ah if you want to look at like j- a coach fare on a round trip basis

Well it's not, well we're not even considering coach

xx (Oh you just want first class

Business class is a minimum)

xx Ok ok let's take a look umm, we're going ok Business round trip would be
xx thirty two oh eight

uh hum

xx and then first class round trip is gonna be forty eight ninety two

forty eight ninety two

xx right and then I don't know if you even want to hear the coach round trip
xx is thirty two oh eight as well so its (the same for business or coach.

Coach and business) class are the same?

xx um hum

really?

xx yeah, unrestricted coach that is.

uh huh that's interesting

xx yeah

ok that's all I needed to know (thanks

xx ok,) uh huh bye

bye



