speaker1: if anyone finds this, then i guess my plan didn't work and i'm already dead... 
speaker1: but if i can just go back to the beginning of all this, i still might be able to save her.

speaker1: okay, okay... what now? 
speaker2: we're gonna be late again.
speaker1: when did you ever care about getting to school on time?
speaker2: we're putting up pictures for parent's night.
speaker2: righty-tighty, lefty-lucy.
speaker1: thanks. don't worry evan, you'll have plenty of time.
speaker1: darn it!
speaker2: um... can dad come this time?
speaker1: you know the answer to that.
speaker2: can't he come out for one day?
speaker1: we've been over this a hundred times. it's too dangerous for him.
speaker2: but lenny said that his dad's coming... and tommy and kayleigh's dad...
speaker1: here, ev... finish this up for me.
speaker2: all the dads are gonna be there.
speaker1: i get the point, kiddo. but i'm not so bad, am i?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good. because i've been waiting to see your art projects all week and i'd feel terrible if all you thought about was your father not being there.
speaker2: done. try it.
speaker1: you're amazing, kiddo.

speaker1: okay have a great day i love you i'll pick you up later gotta go... 
speaker2: mrs. treborn! i need to speak with you!
speaker1: i'm sorry, but can it wait til tonight? i'm already late for work --
speaker2: i think you really need to see this.

speaker1: i was going to show this to the principal, but i wanted to talk to you first. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: yesterday i had all the children draw pictures of what they wanted to be when they grew up. most of them made drawings of what their parents did, but this...
speaker2: i don't understand... evan did this?
speaker2: thank you for showing it to me first. i'll... i'll take care of it. can i have the picture?
speaker1: of course. there is one more thing, mrs. treborn. and i feel bad for mentioning it...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: when i asked evan about his drawing, well, he didn't remember doing it.
speaker2: i have to go.

speaker1: you put the mommy too far away. mrs. boswell has macaroni and glue if you wanna fix it. 
speaker2: you're such a retard!
speaker3: mommy lives far away but she comes and visits.
speaker4: hey, what'd you do that for?
speaker2: fat little baby, crying for mommy.
speaker4: come on, lenny. it's not that bad. you can still see your mom a little.
speaker1: can... can... can i have this?
speaker4: sure. i was gonna make a new one, anyway.

speaker1: and you say he doesn't remember any of it? 
speaker2: not according to his teacher. it just got me thinking about jason and what if evan's inherited his father's condition?
speaker1: hold it, hold it, andrea. let's not jump to conclusions. i'll run some preliminary tests, see what we can rule out.
speaker1: tell you what, bring evan here tonight and we'll run a cat-scan series.

speaker1: i don't like this place, mom. it's creepy. please can we go? i promise i won't make any more bad pictures! 
speaker2: you'll be fine. dr. redfield just wants to give you some tests. you'll like him.

speaker1: hello, evan. it's very nice to meet you. he's as handsome as his father. 
speaker2: you know my father?
speaker3: that's why i wanted you to come here, evan. dr. redfield already has a background in memory loss.
speaker2: my father has a bad memory, too?
speaker1: uh, tell you what, evan. if it's okay with your mother, i'd like to run some tests. nothing scary.
speaker1: okay, it might be a little scary...

speaker1: just tell me that evan doesn't have jason's illness... 
speaker2: look, andrea, i'm sure he'll test negative for brain disorders. but there's something else you can try to monitor his memory.
speaker1: anything.
speaker2: a journal. just have him write down everything he does.
speaker1: why? what for?
speaker2: it could be extremely useful to jog his memory. see if he remembers anything new the next day. and i'll have the test results back in a few days.

speaker1: thanks, george. i really appreciate you watching him, he won't be any trouble at all. 
speaker2: these'll bring you luck, crockett.
speaker1: great. i'll see you soon.

speaker1: evan? 
speaker1: evan? what are you doing with that knife?
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: honey. what were you doing with that?
speaker2: i... i don't remember.

speaker1: hey, andrea. hello little man. 
speaker2: thanks a lot george. here's my work number in case there are any problems.
speaker1: whaddaya kidding? we're going to have a great time today, right evan?
speaker1: you waiting for an invitation? the kids are inside.

speaker1: evan, guess what? dad got a new video camera and we're all gonna be in a movie. 
speaker2: i don't think evan gets to be in it --
speaker1: quit it, tommy. evan gets to be robin hood. i'm gonna be maid marian, and you're the sheriff of nottingham!
speaker2: i thought i was the bad guy!
speaker1: you are, silly. he's a bad sheriff.
speaker3: we're really gonna be in a movie!?
speaker4: that's right, evan, and you get to be the star.
speaker2: i thought i was the star.
speaker4: shut up, moron. now get in your costume, evan. and you have to promise, your bestest super-duper promise, that this will be our little secret. think you can do that?

speaker1: where am i? what happened? where did we all go? 
speaker2: calm down, kid. stand still.
speaker1: i was just somewhere else -- how did i get here?
speaker2: quit acting like some or i'll call your mother and tell her what a naughty little you've been.
speaker1: kayleigh? what happened?
speaker1: what's wrong with me?

speaker1: well, the good news is that the results are negative. i've found no evidence in the way of lesions, hemorrhaging, tumors... 
speaker2: and the bad news?
speaker1: unfortunately, we've got nothing to work with. it's harder playing detective now.
speaker2: but you must have something to go on?
speaker1: if i had to guess, i'd say the blackouts are stress related.
speaker2: but he's seven. what kind of stress can he have?
speaker1: plenty. who knows? maybe he's got severe coping problems about not having a father. did you say the last blackout occurred when he was with his friend's dad.
speaker2: come on, i doubt the answer's that simple.
speaker1: you'd be surprised how often they are.
speaker2: well, he has been pushing me to meet his father, but i've been putting it off.
speaker1: it's worth a shot. i can arrange a controlled meeting. a careful dose of sedatives for jason, some security, you and i monitoring. evan comes in for a quick visit and with any luck, no more missing father complex.
speaker2: how soon?...

speaker1: dad lives here? 
speaker2: not in this wing, actually. no.
speaker3: now your father may seem sleepy to you, but that's just because of his medicine, okay?
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: it's okay. i won't bite. you've seen pictures of me, right? 
speaker2: uh-huh. mom says i have your eyes and your --

speaker1: i... love... you. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, evan. i'm sorry.

speaker1: ashes to ashes... dust to dust. 
speaker2: you're better off anyway.

speaker1: tommy, i'm bored shitless over here. what's up already? 
speaker2: hold your horses, man. it's here somewhere. i saw it when i was a kid.
speaker3: we should go soon. if dad catches us smoking down here, we're dead.
speaker1: so let's go. this place creeps me out.
speaker2: i knew it had something to do with the army.
speaker2: let's blow the out of something!

speaker1: guys, slow up, would you? 
speaker2: evan, did i tell you? my mother said i might be able to visit her this summer in orlando with her new family.
speaker3: what did i say about mentioning that
speaker2: where the are you taking us anyway? just blow something up already.
speaker3: just blow something up? are you nuts? there's an art to mass destruction. would you just paint the mona lisa? no. besides, we're here already.

speaker1: here you go, buddy. 
speaker2: what? no frigging way, man. i'm not touching that thing.
speaker1: the you aren't. anyone of us does it, you'll puss out and narc for sure.
speaker2: ain't gonna work this time, buddy. look how small that fuse is! i'll get killed.
speaker3: not necessarily.
speaker3: that should buy you ten minutes at least.
speaker2: gee, thanks friend.

speaker1: oh, for christ's sake, just do it, lenny. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: you got balls, man.

speaker1: hurry! let's go! get him up, evan! come on! 
speaker2: oh what did we do?
speaker3: lenny. what's happened to you! we've gotta get help!

speaker1: what is it? what happened? 
speaker2: we were just building a fort in the woods when lenny freaked out. one minute he was fine, then he just froze up. right guys?
speaker1: what happened, evan? the truth.
speaker3: i don't know... i don't remember.
speaker1: something must've happened! what set him off?
speaker3: i... i blacked out.
speaker1: don't try to use your blackouts to get out of this one!
speaker1: you're not making this up, are you?

speaker1: with every breath you exhale, you can feel all of the tension draining from your body like water through a faucet. nine, ten, and you're completely asleep. relaxed. 
speaker1: now i want you to go back to the time you were in the woods with lenny. think of it like a movie. you can pause, rewind, or slow down any details you wish. understand?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: where are you now?
speaker2: i'm standing next to kayleigh, my hands are over her ears.
speaker1: are you hurting her?
speaker2: no, protecting her.
speaker1: okay. then go a little forward in time. what do you see now?
speaker2: i see a car.
speaker1: yes, tell me about the car.
speaker1: go on. nothing can hurt you. remember, this is only a movie. you're completely safe.
speaker2: i can't... the car vanishes and all of a sudden i'm on the ground in the woods.
speaker1: the car doesn't vanish evan. the movie in your head has broken, that's all. but now i've re-spliced it and i want you to tell me about the car.
speaker2: it's coming... argh! i can't!
speaker1: fight it evan. hurry. it's coming!
speaker1: okay, evan. listen to my voice! on the count of ten, you're going to wake up. feeling refreshed and remembering everything we talked about.
speaker3: what's happening to him?? make it stop!
speaker1: one. you're feeling more awake now. two, your eyes no longer feel heavy.
speaker1: five. six. refreshed and awake! seven, eight. come on, evan, wake up,
speaker3: evan wake up, oh please wake up!
speaker1: nine, ten. and you're awake! open your eyes,
speaker2: what happened? did it work?

speaker1: wipe that sad-assed look off your face before you get us all busted. you see the way evan's mom was looking at you? 
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker3: would someone just tell me already what the happened in the mailbox?
speaker1: don't ever bring that up again. not ever. not to me, not to kayleigh, or even lenny. the stupid if he ever learns to talk again. understand? evan nods, scared. tommy gives a final shove.
speaker1: ever. she don't want to talk about it, anyway. do you kayleigh?

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: there it is. let's go.

speaker1: the powerful explosion is believed to have been caused by a small quantity of dynamite. 
speaker1: police thus far have no leads as to the suspects...

speaker1: holy look at that fat you'd have to wipe his with a forklift! 
speaker1: shut up, faggot. no one's talking to you!
speaker2: i'm sorry kayleigh. this was a bad idea.
speaker3: you really don't remember anything that happened?
speaker3: you're so lucky.
speaker2: it's going to be okay. lenny'll be fine. you'll see.
speaker3: ouch.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker3: it's not your fault. mrs. kagan called dad and blamed us for what happened to lenny.
speaker2: your dad did this?
speaker3: i deserve a lot worse.
speaker2: what are you talking about? what you deserve is a better brother and father. all they do is make you feel like
speaker2: you really have no clue how beautiful you are, do you?
speaker1: what the are you doing??
speaker4: buying popcorn, what the are you doing?
speaker5: andrea's eyes. tormented.
speaker6: so how was the movie?
speaker3: okay.
speaker6: any exploding mailboxes?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker6: goodnight.
speaker6: we're moving.

speaker1: i can't believe tommy's still at me. he knows i'm moving away, right? 
speaker2: he's been acting real strange lately. he won't even look me in the eyes anymore.
speaker1: duck, here they come.
speaker2: did your mom say if lenny was... okay?
speaker1: he must be. they're letting him go, right?
speaker1: welcome home, lenny!
speaker3: i think your little homecoming's in bad taste.
speaker1: sorry?

speaker1: welcome home. thought you might like some fresh air for a change. 
speaker2: hi, lenny.
speaker3: is tommy with you guys?
speaker1: it's cool.

speaker1: so what did you do in there? 
speaker2: it was awful. you can't sleep 'cause everyone's screaming all night long. i never want to go back.
speaker1: do you see that?

speaker1: crockett!! 
speaker2: look what you made me do!
speaker1: what's wrong with you?!
speaker1: kayleigh! wake up!
speaker2: why don't you kiss her, prince charming!

speaker1: how long was i out? 
speaker1: kayleigh?! are you okay? where's crockett?

speaker1: "i'll come back for you." 
speaker2: i'm sorry.

speaker1: time! please place your blue books on my desk before you leave. 
speaker1: how'd you do, evan?
speaker2: i'm not sure. i might have gotten some stories mixed up. did pavlov condition his dogs to lick his nuts?
speaker1: typical psych major. a complete wise ass. and how's your project coming? still planning to change the way we humble scientists view memory assimilation?
speaker2: hey, i got no choice.

speaker1: whoa. smells like patchouli and... ass. 
speaker2: cricket, meet my well-mannered roommate, evan.
speaker3: yeah, you're the one who up the bell-curve on my anthropology final. later, thumper.
speaker1: nice to meet you, too.
speaker2: here, bro. found your t-shirt.
speaker1: get dressed, thumper, you're taking me out for my birthday.
speaker2: i thought you were a december baby.
speaker1: this is bigger. seven years to the day. no blackouts.
speaker2: let's do this.

speaker1: so... which one of you has a pet worm? 
speaker2: worms, plural.
speaker1: that's so gross.
speaker2: talk to him about it, he's got the fetish.
speaker3: actually, they're for a psych project. a study on memory.
speaker3: it's an experiment with flatworms and a maze. you take a flatworm and run it through the maze until he's memorized it. then you put a new flatworm in the maze. he's clueless. banging into walls, getting lost, whatever.
speaker2: like ozzy.
speaker4: ten bucks says he eats it off the floor.
speaker3: you chop up the smart flatworm and feed it to the one and presto, the one suddenly knows the maze inside and out.
speaker3: just by absorbing the first worm into its cellular structure, it gets all of the worm's memories.
speaker5: so what's the point?
speaker3: maybe if i can figure out how the memories of a simple worm function, it'll help me understand the complexities of the human brain.
speaker5: so are you planning on becoming a doctor or something?
speaker3: no, i just don't want to lose my mind.
speaker3: i think that's your game.

speaker1: smells like in here. 
speaker2: thumper had a busy afternoon.
speaker1: you're kidding. he's so... big.
speaker2: charisma and eyeliner go a long way, i guess. wanna beer?
speaker1: most guys tuck their under here, but all you have are... comp books.
speaker2: yeah. i've been keeping journals since i was seven.
speaker1: wow... read something.
speaker2: no way, i'd be too embarrassed.
speaker1: then keep drinking, worm-boy. you're too uptight.
speaker2: freeze! no "worm-boy". no "mr. worm," and no "worm-master-general!" once you get a nickname like that you can't shake it. and i don't want everyone thinking i've got tapeworms coming out of my or something, okay?
speaker1: deal. now read me something.
speaker2: for courage.
speaker2: it's like my mind refused to believe what it was seeing. hearing crockett make those awful screams... just writing about it gives me the shivers.
speaker1: come on, go on...
speaker2: it was like tommy was possessed or something. there was a hate in his eyes that i couldn't really call human.

speaker1: what the is going on? 
speaker2: i can't undo the rope! tommy spins around and flashes an evil smile.
speaker3: drop it or i'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
speaker1: i got him, lenny. help crockett!
speaker3: listen to me good, evan. there's a million other sisters in the world. you didn't have to with mine.
speaker4: and evan passes out.

speaker1: oh my no! no! 
speaker2: wake up, it was just a dream.
speaker1: it didn't feel like a dream.
speaker2: maybe because they never do. so don juan, you pass out on all your dates?

speaker1: hey, uh, it's me. evan. 
speaker1: what's that you're working on? a model?
speaker1: well, you look busy, so maybe i should make this quick. i'd totally understand if you didn't want to get into this right now, but that day at the junkyard, could you help me remember what happened? any details?
speaker2: i couldn't cut the rope.
speaker1: yeah, good, what else do you remember?
speaker2: drop it or i'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
speaker1: christ. it really happened.
speaker1: what if i can get back all my lost memories with my journals.
speaker2: make one peep and i swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
speaker1: well, thanks for seeing me, man. i shouldn't have waited so long.

speaker1: you really think he wanted to kill you? 
speaker2: all i know is that i might be able to unblock some of my repressed memories.
speaker3: "i will come back for you." evan looks overcome by guilt.

speaker1: maybe it went out. should someone check it? 
speaker2: yeah, you do that, lenny.
speaker2: make one peep and i swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
speaker3: how's my sweet girl? awww, you need a change, don't you honey?
speaker3: you want to open the door, honey?

speaker1: c'mon! run!! 
speaker1: lenny? come on!
speaker2: oh my oh my

speaker1: what the hell? 
speaker2: christ, man. you wanna clean that up before i lose my appetite here?

speaker1: yes, hello, uh, mrs. kagan, this is evan treborn. i know. i'm sorry about that. but i really need to speak with him. 
speaker2: whoa! didn't mean to scare you, evan. just wanted to know how the flatworms project was coming.
speaker1: oh, fine i guess. it's been kind of crazy lately with my mom coming up, so i haven't...
speaker2: i know, i know. who can think of worms when your libido's in full swing, right?
speaker2: just don't drop the ball, okay?
speaker1: i won't let you down, professor carter.

speaker1: please, mom. people will talk. 
speaker2: i can't help it. i'm just so proud of you. you've got the highest grades in all of your classes.
speaker1: did da -- jason --- get good grades?
speaker2: please. he got straight a's without ever touching a book. that was the one area where his memory never failed him.
speaker1: ma? did he ever say that he figured out a way to recall a lost memory years after he blacked it out for the first time?
speaker2: why do you ask?
speaker1: no, it's just weird with him being such a brain and all, i just wondered if he was ever able to remember stuff he'd forgotten.
speaker2: when he was around your age... almost exactly your age. he said he figured out a trick to remember the past.
speaker2: i couldn't tell if they were real memories or just phantoms. you know, he might only have thought he actually remembered them...
speaker1: sure...
speaker2: and then, just before it got so bad that he had to be committed, he said that he could...
speaker1: what? what could he do?
speaker2: forget it. it's nothing. he was far too sick by then.

speaker1: i never wanted to be in the movie anyway and it was cold so i wanted to wear my clothes but mr. miller took his shirt off -- 
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker1: shhh! i need quiet for this.
speaker2: are you stupid or what?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: shucks, i dunno. but maybe there's a reason why you've repressed the one day when some old lecher had you in your tighty whities,
speaker2: yeah, man. i'd think twice about this. you could wake up a lot more up than you are now.

speaker1: evan! i never thought i'd see you again. how've you been? 
speaker2: oh, comme si, comme ca, you know...
speaker1: no, evan. i don't know. it's been a long time. fill me in.
speaker2: i'm going to state now. things are going okay. i guess. mom's good...
speaker2: not since we were kids.
speaker1: i've stopped a hundred times.
speaker2: so how's tommy?
speaker2: you still live with your dad?
speaker1: no. i emancipated myself when i was fifteen.
speaker2: wow. that must've taken some courage.
speaker1: not if you remember my dad.
speaker2: couldn't you have moved in with your mom?
speaker1: she had a new family. not enough space for me. said i should have moved in with her when we were kids. but... whatever.
speaker2: actually, kayleigh, the reason i came back to town was to talk to you.
speaker1: me? are you kidding? why?
speaker2: remember when i was a kid i had all these blackouts?
speaker1: of course.
speaker2: well, lately some of the memories have begun to come back and i'd kinda like to talk to you about one of them in particular. it'd be a big help.
speaker1: well, sure. i'll try to remember. shoot.
speaker2: when we were kids. your dad was making a movie. robin hood or something?
speaker1: what do you want to know, evan?
speaker2: it's just... did he... what happened in the basement?
speaker1: it was a long time ago.
speaker2: i know, but...
speaker1: is that why you came all the way back? to ask a lot of stupid questions about robin hood?
speaker2: no, but i think something really bad might've happened to us.
speaker1: is there a point to any of this?
speaker2: whatever happened, it wasn't our fault. you know we couldn't have stopped it.
speaker2: look, kayleigh. this may sound like coming from a guy who hasn't spoken to you in seven years...
speaker2: but you were seven years old and there's nothing you could've done to deserve...
speaker1: just shut up, evan. you're wasting your breath.
speaker2: you can't hate yourself just because your dad's a twisted freak.
speaker1: who are you trying to convince, evan?! you come all the way out here to stir up my just because you had a bad memory!? you want me to cry on your shoulder and tell you that everything's all better now? well you, evan! nothing's gonna be all better! okay?! nothing ever gets better!
speaker1: if i was so wonderful, evan, why didn't you ever call me? why'd you leave me here to rot?!

speaker1: some dude left a message for you. 
speaker2: you can smell it all the way in the bathroom.
speaker3: hi, evan, this is professor carter. just wondered why you didn't hand in your essay this afternoon. i was a bit concerned. call me to schedule a make-up.
speaker3: what did you say to my sister motherfucker?! last night she cried on the phone for over an hour to me. she said you came and saw her last night. thumper coughs accidentally, tips the bong over on evan's bed. reacting quickly, he grabs a towel from under the door and wipes off evan's comforter.
speaker3: she... she killed herself tonight. she's dead. and so are you.
speaker1: whoa, bad news, bro. i don't think this is gonna come out.

speaker1: shut up moron. now get in your costume evan. 
speaker1: i've got an idea. let's go downstairs, it'll look more like a dungeon down there.

speaker1: what did i say about keeping that door closed, stupid? 
speaker2: but i wanna see!
speaker1: you're gonna see my fist in about two seconds unless you do what i tell you.
speaker1: now in this part of the story, robin hood just married maid marian and they have to kiss and stuff like grown-ups do.
speaker1: so take your clothes off kayleigh.
speaker1: come on, like when you take a bath. don't make a deal out of it. you too, evan.
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: what time is it? 
speaker2: it's time for you to stand where the i told you.
speaker1: wrong answer, fuckbag. this is the very moment of your reckoning. in the next thirty seconds you're going to open one of two doors. the first door will forever traumatize your own flesh and blood.
speaker2: what's happened to -- how are you doing that?
speaker1: it'll change your daughter from a beautiful child into an empty shell whose only concept of trust was betrayed by her own sick father. ultimately, it'll lead to her suicide. nice work, daddy.
speaker2: who -- who are you?
speaker1: let's just say you're being closely watched, george. your other option is to get your off the rack and treat kayleigh like... oh, let's say like how a loving father treats his daughter. sound okay to you, papa?
speaker2: ...yes.
speaker1: listen close then, fuckbag. you screw up again and i swear i'll flat out castrate you.
speaker1: one last thing.
speaker3: don't you ever touch me again.
speaker2: i -- i won't.
speaker3: i'm cold. and i'm putting on my clothes.
speaker1: what you need to do is discipline your son tommy, because the kid's one sadistic pup.

speaker1: honey, are you all right? 
speaker1: oh my evan. you're bleeding! look at you!
speaker2: kayleigh, you're... incredible.
speaker2: where... where are my clothes?
speaker1: those are your clothes, silly.

speaker1: this is too amazing! un-fucking-real! 
speaker2: i wish i could get so excited about a nose bleed.
speaker1: whoops. sorry. my bad.
speaker1: hey, you were with those who threw popcorn at thumper.
speaker1: and your name is... gwen!
speaker3: seriously, evan. lay off the blow.

speaker1: hey, uh, don't go freaking out on me over this, but do you remember when your dad first got his video camera? 
speaker2: well i remember he had one... but he, like, put it away after the first day. why would that freak me out?
speaker1: i dunno. just being weird.
speaker2: such a goofus. see you tonight.

speaker1: come on, mom, be there! 
speaker2: andrea, evan, and chuck, aren't home right now. you know what to do.
speaker1: thumper! what time is it, man?
speaker3: whasamatter? lost your rolex?
speaker1: huh?
speaker3: off, frat boy. thumper walks away, leaving evan dumbfounded.

speaker1: remember, everyone! only two weeks until your science projects are due. 
speaker2: i still owe you an essay from last week. is there any way i could get an extension?
speaker1: and you are...?
speaker2: evan treborn.
speaker1: the answer's 'no', mr. treborn. now take a seat. the exam's about to begin.
speaker2: leave me alone, i didn't lay a hand on you, okay?
speaker3: evan, you're hysterical. you study for this?
speaker2: we'll find out soon enough.
speaker3: me neither.
speaker2: you're kidding. are these the answers?!
speaker3: damn, evan, on the d.l.
speaker2: thanks. wow. hey, i want to do something really special for kayleigh tomorrow. if i said i needed some help from you and the brothers...
speaker3: i'd say blow me. get the pledges to do it.

speaker1: oh my that was good. where'd you learn all those new tricks? 
speaker2: so it didn't feel... weird?
speaker1: yeah, if you call multiple weird.
speaker2: yellow.
speaker1: 'em.
speaker2: what do you think it is about us that makes us so perfect? like, looking back, whatever gave you the nerve to sneak out and visit me after i moved away?
speaker1: as if my dad could've stopped me from seeing you. what's he gonna do to me?
speaker2: you think we'll always be together?
speaker1: that is the plan, right? or high water?
speaker2: just making sure.

speaker1: order, order. so all you rushes know what you've got to do for me? 
speaker2: pledges, sir brother evan, sir.
speaker1: pledges, rushees, same difference. now this is a one-time deal. you do all this for me and i'll never give you again. promise.

speaker1: i don't understand, where are you taking me? 
speaker2: you'll see.

speaker1: i don't know what to say. it's beautiful. 
speaker2: go on. sit down.
speaker1: why are you doing all this for me?
speaker2: simple math. when i woke up this morning and saw your smile... i knew that i wanted to spend the rest of my life with you.
speaker3: we been lookin' all over for you, man.
speaker4: someone trashed your car.

speaker1: did you see who did this? you see anyone? 
speaker2: probably them pika
speaker1: how could he get away with this? right in front of the frat house!
speaker3: frat house? hey man, would you call your "country" a "cunt"?
speaker4: don't. he's probably watching.

speaker1: it's my fault. i should have told you he was released a few weeks ago. 
speaker2: might'a been nice. like this is gonna do any good. maybe one of the frat guys has a gun.
speaker1: please, evan. don't even joke. he wouldn't hurt you. he's just trying to scare you away from me.
speaker2: yeah, right. tell that to crockett.
speaker1: it's not his fault, evan. you knew how bad he had it when we were kids.
speaker2: don't give me this oprah-book club bad upbringing because you turned out fine.
speaker1: my father never laid a hand on me. it's like the saved it all up for tommy. evan sits in silence for a moment, contemplating this. kayleigh's eyes plead for him to have compassion.
speaker2: fine, then. we'll let campus security deal with him.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: it's just... you've been acting kinda strange, you know?
speaker2: like how?
speaker1: i don't know. you seem... different. you make weird jokes. your accents changed. you don't even walk the same.
speaker2: i walk differently?
speaker1: i can't put my finger on it, but everything's a bit off. even the dinner tonight. it was beautiful, but...
speaker2: i know i've been actin strange lately. it's just that... i don't want anything to happen to us.
speaker1: wait. something's not right. isn't that your jacket?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: tommy.
speaker2: leave us alone you sick
speaker3: get this "us" as if i was gonna lay a hand on my own sister. you've done nicely for yourself, evan. nice friends, nice life, not to mention you're my sister. not a bad piece of if i say so myself.
speaker1: shut up, tommy!
speaker3: aw, hey now, that was a compliment.
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker3: it wasn't enough that the whole world loves you, but you had to take away the last person on earth who didn't think i was a piece of
speaker2: no one thinks you're a piece of tommy.
speaker3: right, evan. i believe you just said "sick fuck."
speaker1: evan, stop! you're gonna kill him!
speaker2: he's a maniac!
speaker2: he ruined lenny's life --
speaker2: he killed crockett -- murdered that woman and her baby! and he's trying to kill me, kayleigh! he's trying to kill me!

speaker1: first time? 
speaker1: best not up. wind up someone's luggage that way.
speaker2: can you protect me?
speaker1: himself couldn't make me take on the brotherhood. when they come, just put your mind in another place, man. be somewhere else.

speaker1: ...i spoke to your new lawyer about the appeal. he's sure he can get you off on self-defense, so if you're patient. 
speaker2: how long will i be in here?
speaker1: i don't know. these things take time.
speaker2: how's kayleigh doing? she all right?
speaker2: what about my journals, mom? did you bring the ones i asked for?

speaker1: i found these. the others are still in storage. 
speaker2: it, mom. i told you i need them all!
speaker1: fine. you'll get them, evan. but i think it's far more important to focus on your case right now.
speaker2: sure, mom. you're right. just try to tell kayleigh i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'm not gonna lose you, kiddo. promise me you'll hang on, ev.

speaker1: on my or blood on my knife. 
speaker2: let go! they're mine!
speaker2: 

speaker1: you're religious carlos, you believe that bit about "the lord works in mysterious ways?" 
speaker2: straight up.
speaker1: because i think he sent me to your cell on purpose. for you to help me.
speaker2: i knew you were crazy.
speaker1: i ain't bullshitting. speaks to me in my dreams.
speaker1: pack of smokes says i can prove it to you.

speaker1: so when i'm out, i need you to watch my face and hands closely. 
speaker2: you need to see the prison shrink, man.
speaker1: anything today?
speaker3: yep. just not for you.
speaker1: just tell me if anything weird happens.
speaker2: weirder than this?
speaker1: marks, scars, i dunno. anything could happen i guess.

speaker1: no monkey business, evan. sit still and finish your drawing. 
speaker1: that's great everyone! just imagine anything you want to be. there are no limits.
speaker2: oh, mrs. boswelllllllll?

speaker1: oh sweet it's true. it's a miracle! a miracle! 
speaker1: your hands. the stigmata!
speaker2: what did you see? what did it look like?
speaker1: signs of the lord. they just appeared out of nowhere. i thought you were loco!
speaker2: so you believe me?

speaker1: look. i'm new to all this but i think i get how things work. you gotta join a gang or else end up dead meat. 
speaker1: well it sure ain't gonna be with no or spics. so how do we do this? you gotta work your way up, and i'm the new guy. so... should i... i mean, do i your right now?
speaker2: is your blood pure?
speaker1: i ain't no if that's what you mean.
speaker3: let's see what you got. and watch
speaker1: carlos!
speaker1: we took the woods behind the junkyard just to make sure we wouldn't bump into tommy. we hadn't seen the smoke yet.

speaker1: rot in you animals. 
speaker1: wait. before we --
speaker1: we need something to cut open the sack!
speaker1: i want you to take this, lenny. today's your day of atonement. i know how guilty you feel about that woman and her baby --
speaker2: evan. stop it. it's not the time.
speaker1: now's the only time! today you get a chance to redeem yourself. start over with a clean slate. tabula rasa --
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: you're acting crazy!
speaker1: please. if you've ever trusted me before, trust me on this one.
speaker1: cut the rope.

speaker1: listen to me good, evan... 
speaker2: i'll do whatever you want. you don't want me to ever see kayleigh again, fine. just let crockett go. besides, you kill him now and they'll stick you in juvy for sure. and i know you'd never leave your sister alone with your father.
speaker2: oh lenny, no!

speaker1: okay, doc. what's the damage? how much time have i got? 
speaker2: cute, evan.
speaker3: it's a little complicated. i haven't seen results exactly like these before.
speaker1: are you sure? not even with my father?
speaker3: actually, these tests weren't available twenty years ago.
speaker2: so what did you find.
speaker3: this is where we're finding most of the hemorrhaging. the outer lining of the cerebral cortex.
speaker1: lemme guess. would that be where the memories are stored?
speaker3: i've never seen anything like this. i've compared these to the ones taken last year, and there's evidence of severe hemorrhaging and massive neural reconstruction.
speaker2: what does that mean for evan?
speaker1: mind if i wait in the car? the lighting here bugs my eyes.
speaker1: well, it's nice seeing you again. but you know, people to see, things to read...

speaker1: is there anything you need? anything i can get you? 
speaker1: what about the models, man? bet i can get you a shitload of models up in here.
speaker1: okay, lenny. just wanted to say "hi".
speaker2: you knew the whole time, didn't you? when you put the blade in my hand, you knew something big was going to happen. didn't you?!
speaker1: y... yes. i guess i did.
speaker2: then you should be where i am. you should be where i am.

speaker1: are you okay? you looked like you were somewhere else for a second there. 
speaker2: look, jason, i need some fast answers if i'm ever gonna fix what i've done.
speaker1: i was praying this curse would have ended with me.
speaker2: but it didn't. and now i need info to make things right again and you're the only one who can give it to me.
speaker1: there is no "right". when you change who people are, you destroy who they were.
speaker2: who's to say you can't make things better?
speaker1: you can't play son. it must end with me. just by being here, you may be killing your mother.
speaker2: i'll send you a postcard when i've made everything perfect again.

speaker1: just get out, didja? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: nothing. just that my brother did a stint in the pen and he used to eat like that.
speaker2: i come from a big family.
speaker1: meant no offense.
speaker2: none taken. hey, uh, does kayleigh miller still work here?
speaker1: sorry. never heard of her.

speaker1: just shut the up already! can't a man get a little goddman peace in his own home! oh, for christ's sake, now what? 
speaker1: don't suppose you're here to sell cookies?
speaker2: good guess, fuckbag. remember me now? we had a great chat once when i was seven.
speaker2: one question, fuckbag. where can i find your daughter?

speaker1: oh, i thought you were my eight o'clock. make it fast, i'm expecting someone. 
speaker2: nice to see you, too. can i come in?
speaker1: if i knew you were coming i'd have cleaned the stains off the sheets.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: i just needed to see... a friendly face.
speaker1: well, time is money, evan. so you...
speaker1: well, i guess i can spare ten minutes for an old friend, right?
speaker1: so how's tricks? sorry, occupational humor.
speaker2: i get it. you can drop it now.
speaker1: oh, i'm sorry. does my line of work make you uncomfortable, precious?
speaker2: no. just that you need to hurt me with it. i've been where you've been.
speaker1: ha! where's that?
speaker2: the bottom. when you're just a piece of meat waiting for the next attack.
speaker1: what's happened to you?
speaker2: you wouldn't believe me. i mean, people always say, "you wouldn't believe me", but in this case, it's not even worth trying.
speaker1: i've seen some sickening i don't blink twice anymore, especially in your case.
speaker2: why's that?
speaker1: because you're... different.
speaker2: different? how?
speaker1: let me ask you a question. just a little one that's been gnawing at me for years.
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: on the bridge. how did you know that tommy had your dog? that was no hunch.
speaker2: do you remember when i was a kid and i had those blackouts?

speaker1: you're right, evan, i don't believe you. 
speaker2: i never thought you would. that's why i've never bothered to tell a soul until now, and why i never will again.
speaker1: i'm the only person you've told? that's a great line. does that make other girls swoon? do they actually eat up this
speaker2: i couldn't give a if you believe me or not, and frankly i'm too tired to prove it to you.
speaker1: oh? there's proof now?
speaker2: i dunno. how would i know about the twin moles on your inner thigh?
speaker1: anyone with fifty bucks could tell you that.
speaker2: then forget that. how about... you prefer the smell of a skunk to flowers, you hate cilantro because for reasons unknown to you, it reminds you of your step-sister.
speaker2: oh! and when you orgasm, your toes go numb. i'm sure your clientele aren't privy to that one.
speaker2: i just thought you should know.
speaker1: know what?
speaker2: that i didn't leave you there to rot.
speaker1: there's one major hole in your story.
speaker2: which is?
speaker1: there is no way on this planet or any other that i was in some sorority.
speaker1: sure you don't want your wallet?
speaker2: don't think i'll need it where i'm going.
speaker1: off to change everyone's life again, is that it? maybe this time you'll pop up in some mansion while i wind up in tijuana doing the donkey act.
speaker2: i'm over it. whenever i try to help anyone it all turns to
speaker1: well, don't give up now, slick. you've already done so much for me. hell, why don't you go back in time and save mrs. halpern and her baby. then maybe lenny wouldn't freak out and ruin my family.
speaker1: oh, here's one! go back when i'm seven and me in front of daddy's handicam, you know, straighten me out a bit...

speaker1: get out. both of you. 
speaker2: sorry, dude. just figured it'd be okay with you bein' sick and all.
speaker1: i'm not saying it again.

speaker1: lady, stay back! don't go near the mailbox! 
speaker1: i mean it, woman! get the back!
speaker2: there's a bomb in the mailbox. get away!

speaker1: i thought i told you two to beat it. 
speaker2: what? hey, sorry, man. we wake you up?
speaker1: no, it's cool. really cool.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: we have to get you to sunnyvale. you're having one of your famous hemorrhages.
speaker1: stop! take me back!
speaker3: sorry, tough guy, no can do. your mother would kill me.

speaker1: take me back, lenny! you owe me that much. 
speaker2: what are you geeks looking at? must be nice to be so perfect, huh? losers.

speaker1: 'sup, sheila! we missed you at the party! don't even think i'm giving you my lab notes either! think i like getting up for "eight thirty's"? 
speaker1: hey, there's tommy.
speaker2: i did what you said, man! we're pooling our student funds with hillel house and we're going to have an awareness dance.
speaker3: oh goody, nothing like spinning my chair around to a techno mix of hava nagila til i puke.
speaker1: uh, we should be getting to class now.
speaker3: forget it. what's the point of psych now? tomorrow i could wake up as some dirt farmer in bangladesh.
speaker4: let's go for a stroll.
speaker3: so tommy's really into this kick, huh?
speaker4: you know how spiritual he's gotten ever since he saved mrs. halpern and katie.
speaker3: he saved mrs. halpern? please, the twisted
speaker4: is something the matter?
speaker3: yeah, i think i gotta get these fixed or something. she leans into him, gently feeding him her remaining bar.
speaker3: kayleigh? do you ever think about "us?" i mean, wonder if it could ever have been different between the two of us?
speaker4: sure, evan, why not? you were the first person i really ever cared about.
speaker3: i was?
speaker4: that's why when i was little i never went to live with my mother.
speaker3: i don't get it.
speaker4: when my folks split, they gave me and tommy a choice who we wanted to live with. i couldn't stand my dad, but i knew if i moved to my mom's i'd never see you again.
speaker3: i never knew that. so then you still sometimes think of us... together?
speaker4: it's crossed my mind from time to time.
speaker3: and...?
speaker4: well a lot of things cross my mind. i've always been a fast thinker, ev. i can play out the movie of our entire lives in under a second. boom -- we fall in love -- get married -- two kids, your keen analytical insight matched to my generous nature -- kids grow old as do we, relatively stable relationships, matching burial plots, the whole bit. it took a lot longer to spit out than to imagine.
speaker3: then you think it might have worked out?
speaker4: why not? but that's not how things wound up. i'm with lenny, lenny's your friend. and there it ends.
speaker3: would it make any difference if i told you that no one could possibly love anyone as much as i love you?

speaker1: you forgot to put the toaster on the edge. 
speaker2: but you, kayleigh and lenny like toast. and that's really all that matters now.
speaker1: i'll get you changed. visiting hours are almost up.

speaker1: looking. good. kiddo. 
speaker2: lung cancer?
speaker3: sorry, mrs. t. he's been out of sorts lately.
speaker2: right... you started chain smoking after i blew myself up.
speaker2: there must be a way to fix this.
speaker1: fix?
speaker2: i just need the entry about the blockbuster. wait, no arms. i never even got the chance to write it.
speaker1: is evan... different?
speaker3: he's just going through some tough times.
speaker2: mom. don't cry. i can change this.
speaker3: i think i'll go check out the chapel.
speaker1: you're. acting. like your father.
speaker2: come on, mom. just 'cause dad was my age when he started going crazy doesn't mean that i'm nuts.
speaker1: how. did you. know that?
speaker2: you told me that on parents' weekend. remember? wait, that wasn't me. or you.
speaker1: just. like. jason.
speaker2: don't worry. i'm gonna get you out of here.
speaker1: stop him. stop him. stop him...

speaker1: are you sure you even packed it? 
speaker2: my mom packed for me. i think she sent everything i ever owned. so we'll see.
speaker1: is this it?

speaker1: what do you need it for? i don't get you lately. 
speaker2: duly noted. now i'm gonna ask you for one last favor.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: shhh. i need to concentrate on the blockbuster if i'm gonna destroy it.
speaker1: destroy it?
speaker2: if i hadn't blown my arms off, mom never woulda started smoking in the first place. now shhhh.

speaker1: yes. now how do i destroy the blockbuster? 
speaker2: evan? what are you doing with that knife?

speaker1: now in this part of the story, robin hood just married maid marian and they have to kiss and stuff like grown-ups do. 
speaker2: wait! i need my belt!
speaker2: loo, loo, skip to my loo.
speaker1: hey kid, don't bother with the belt.
speaker2: back off, fuckbag!
speaker2: amazing. that word never fails to make an impression with you...
speaker1: easy does it, evan! don't be a bad boy or i'll tell mommy you were naughty.
speaker2: and i'll tell the child protective services about your kiddie endeavors. one step closer and i'll shove this up your ass!
speaker1: that's dangerous! you could blow your hands off!
speaker2: been there, done that.
speaker3: kayleigh! noooooooooo!

speaker1: hey, evan. what's the big rush? we don't meet for another hour. 
speaker2: where are my books?
speaker1: books?
speaker2: my journals! where are they?
speaker1: it kills me to have to go through this again. there are no journals. there never were. it's part of this fantasy world your mind created to cope with the guilt of killing...
speaker1: think evan. you've invented a disease that doesn't exist. alternate universes with colleges, prisons, paraplegia...
speaker2: but i... i need those books.
speaker1: you remind me of your father. he always screamed for a photo album even though he never had one.
speaker2: photos?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: no dances, just tell me.
speaker3: hey, mom, didja remember to bring those goofy old home movies we used to make?

speaker1: if anyone finds this, then i guess my plan didn't work and i'm already dead. 
speaker1: but i -- i can just go back to the beginning of all this, i might be able to save her.

speaker1: go on, evan. introduce yourself. 
speaker2: when my folks split, they gave me and tommy a choice who we wanted to live with. i couldn't stand my dad, but i knew if i lived with my mom, i'd never see you again...
speaker1: he's not usually this shy.
speaker3: i hate you. if you ever come near me again, i'll kill you and your whole family.
speaker4: what did you say to her? what happened?!
speaker3: goodbye.

speaker1: you alright? should i call the doctor? 
speaker2: i'll think i'll be alright this time. i really do.

speaker1: you sure about this? 
speaker2: burning journals.

