BENNY: .. after my third recovery my wife made me swear i'd never bring another bottle into the house. and i never did. i bur- ied it under the lawn. cut out a turf and stood it upright with a piece of tin- foil instead of a cork. so here we are out in the yard, and she's happy because i'm getting healthy in a pair of swim- ing shorts and no way near no booze. she decides to prune the roses. meanwhile, i'm laying there with a straw stuck in- to the fucken lawn doing a quart of red .. 
CHAIR: thank you, benny .. we have a few more minutes .. anyone else like to share? ..
BERLIN: my name's john .. and i'm an alcoholic ..
ALL: hi, john.
BERLIN: i didn't intend to speak today. matter of fact, i wasn't gonna come to the meeting .. but i wanna say a couple of things i hope may be of use, particularly as benny says, to the new faces here. i first came into this fellowship ten months ago. i came to a meeting i was convinced was gonna be my last - how could a buncha drunks help me? - then someone got up, i think it was micky, and described himself as "the around which the universe revolved." i don't know if that was original to him - it doesn't matter, it was the first time i'd heard it, and i still can't think of a better way to describe how i felt - we all have our own place in the darkness, and i was in such a mess i could hardly fucken see - i'd lost someone very dear to me - she hadn't died - i had - i don't know whether she left coza the drinking, or whether i drank coz i knew she was gonna leave - either way, the booze won - i replaced her with alcohol and anger - i was angry with her, myself, everyone and everything - where i was i wanted to be someplace else - any place but here - any moment but now - but here i am, and it is now, and there's a big change about to hap- pen in my life - and i'm going for it coz this time i know i'm not running away - i'm actually two miles into a 600 mile journey, and i feel good about myself going there - so i stopped off to share that with you - and to thank everyone of you, and everyone in this fellowship for letting me walk out of here, free ..

TRAVIS: you can drive down there, sir .. 
ROSS: i'm already walking. where is it?
TRAVIS: on the infill. the guy from l.a.'s just gone down there ..
ROSS: he has? .. what's he doing here?
TRAVIS: he was waiting for you, sir. wait- ed a good while. said he'd go down and take a look. i hope that's o.k.
ROSS: a, it's o.k. with a bit of luck i'm goin home. what we got?
TRAVIS: a derelict.
TRIMBLE: they cut his throat ..
ROSS: who are you?
TRIMBLE: trimble.
ROSS: where do you fit in, trimble?
TRAVIS: his father's the manager, sir. the kid was up there shooting vermin, and he found the body.
TRIMBLE: get ready for it, coz i'm tell- ing ya, you're in for a shock ..
ROSS: not right now. no. thank you.

ROSS: did you bring it with you? 
BERLIN: i hope i'm not intruding?
ROSS: be my guest. what you got?
BERLIN: old guy, offed himself with a knife. i can't find the knife.
TRIMBLE: they cut his throat.
ROSS: would you get outside the tape. and tell your dad to put that fire out ... that ain't legal ...
TRAVIS: i wonder what would make him do a thing like that?
ROSS: don't annoy me, travis.
TRAVIS: no, sir.
ROSS: so where's the knife?
BERLIN: i dunno .. guess the dozer musta shifted him? you need some hands up here to look ..
ROSS: you heard. look for the knife.
BERLIN: no, sir. i haven't started till monday. i'm a "tourist."
ROSS: "welcome to eureka."
BERLIN: week or two. musta been on the ker- osene. stinks like a diesel engine.
BLATTIS: fucken noddle's hanging off ..
ROSS: mr blattis, of our local news- paper. you sure it's a suicide?
BERLIN: uh huh .. he's well rehearsed ..
BLATTIS: what does that mean, sergeant?
BERLIN: cut your own throat, you're ner- vous about it, tend to hesitate. he's got three trial cuts, lower left side of the neck, before he works up courage for the big one.
BLATTIS: you think popeye would know that?
ROSS: i don't think popeye would be here.
VENABLES: dead dog over here, sir ...
ROSS: find the knife. and venab- les, is the coroner called?
VENABLES: yes, sir .. he's delayed ..
BLATTIS: alright, gentlemen, i'm gonna leave you. i got a couple of questions for the paper, serg- eant? mind if i swing by later, wring out a tea-bag with you?
BERLIN: my pleasure .. who's popeye?
BLATTIS: your predecessor. he did- n't like to get outta bed. catch you later, freddy t ..
BERLIN: so what happened to the barbecues, and fishing?
ROSS: watch my lips, coz you're not gonna believe this - this is a rare occurrence. we haven't had a body in eighteen months.
BERLIN: what about that kid, ross?
ROSS: oh, of course. the kid. travis. find that kid and get the knife off him. he's gonna lie to you - but he's got it - so get it. well, go on, get on with it. whatta you staring at?
TRAVIS: i think i found some- thing horrible, sir
ROSS: whatta you mean, "horrible?"
TRAVIS: i think i've found a hand.

BERLIN: looks like a woman's hand? 
ROSS: what do you think?
BERLIN: i think you're here all day.

ROSS: how much longer we here? we're not gonna find nothing else .. ? 
BERLIN: we give it one more hour. did the photographer do the dogs?
ROSS: the dogs?
BERLIN: two dogs. he should do the dogs.
VENABLES: sergeant - we got a brassiere over here. looks like it could be blood.
ROSS: oh,
BERLIN: alright, i'm coming ..
TRAVIS: the coroner wants to know if we can release the derelict?
ROSS: ask him.
BERLIN: yeah, he can go ...
ROSS: think i'll lay down with him. only way i'll get outta here.
BERLIN: it's good to be with you, ross.
ROSS: glad you finally made it, bro ...

BLATTIS: you want some umbrella? 
BERLIN: is this normal?
BLATTIS: average rainfall, 48 inches. down, october to june.

BLATTIS [BERLIN]: not married are you, sergeant? [no.] that's good, you get to a few more. so how long you known freddy? 
BERLIN: freddy? forever - he was my serg- eant when i was a kid - don't get to see a lot of each other - but we been buddies two hundred years ..
BLATTIS: did he get you the job?
BERLIN: i think he would have if he could have - been trying to get me up here long enough - i think he may have bribed the old guy to retire ..
BLATTIS: popeye wasn't old. younger than you.
CITRINE: sergeants serato, and taylor.
BERLIN: do me a favor, travis? bring in the resta the stuff from my car?
BLATTIS: did you find the knife, sergeant?
BERLIN: no .. but we have a theory ..
BLATTIS: kid told me he didn't take it?
BERLIN: maybe he's lying to you?
BLATTIS: is it true you found a hand?
CITRINE: interview over, blattis ...
BLATTIS: c'mon, chief, if it's sensitive, tell me .. i'm not taking notes ..
CITRINE: .. we got a body part. we don't know what it is - probably some kind of hospital debris - we're gonna try and check it out. o.k.
BLATTIS: grateful for your candor, sir.
CITRINE: then do me a favor, and keep this outta the newspaper - that dump serves a dozen different communities, we don't even know if it's ours? till we do i don't want no one worrying about ..
BLATTIS: wasn't frozen, was it, sergeant?
CITRINE: come on, michael, outta here, the guys trying to move in. i told you what we know, something else, you- 'll be the first to hear about it ..
BERLIN: why did he ask if it was frozen?
CITRINE: that, i couldn't tell you .. and don't worry about anya this crap,

PATHOLOGIST: .. if the knife hadn't killed him, the booze would .. i nev- er seen such a bad cirrhosis .. 
BERLIN: you say the cut's left to right? isn't that unusual? he's left handed?
PATHOLOGIST: i guess he was so drunk, he did- n't know which hand he was using. what are you gonna do with it?
BERLIN: depends how healthy it is. if it's any good, i'll try and get a print ..
ROSS: frozen? .. i've no idea ..
PATHOLOGIST: no, freddy .. not a few ..

ROSS: you do a rush on three pizzas? 
MARGIE: i'm not giving him pizza. i haven't seem him for a year?
ROSS: dinner's another night, darlin .. this is a drive-by. i got an hour ..
MARGIE: bobby's out .. what's the hurry?
ROSS: friday night at city hall. got a great chance to frighten the fat.
MARGIE: freddy's new obsession ..
BERLIN: who is who?
ROSS: a professional, whining, con-person with an the size of africa ..
MARGIE: so tonight she confesses?
ROSS: tonight i'm feeling lucky ..
BERLIN: not for me ..
ROSS: what d'you mean, i just opened it for you? this is french champagne.
MARGIE: no it isn't .. it's californian ..
ROSS: even better.
BERLIN: not today .. i'm on a diet to- day .. i'll take a diet soda ..
ROSS: since when did you drink diet soda?
MARGIE: stop nagging him. if he doesn't want it, he doesn't want it. you- 're quacking like an old duck ..
ROSS: how's the new residence?

ROSS: what does that mean? 
BERLIN: not too good in daylight ..
ROSS: c'mon, just shut your eyes until it's painted. you're gonna love it. this is "god's country," john.

BERLIN: would you drop these off for me? 
VENABLES: frozen?
BERLIN: yeah. what does that mean to you?
VENABLES: well, sir ..
BERLIN: well, what?
VENABLES: well, we had a very bad murder here, coupla years ago. not act- ually in our county, but south of here. girl with no head, no hands. you didn't read about it? it was big they had forty, fifty detective working it. nev- er identified her. never found the head, never found the hands ..
BERLIN: where do i find the file on that?
VENABLES: in there if we got anything? i believe the code was "jennifer."
BERLIN: no. been dead two weeks.

BERLIN: what time is it? 
ROSS: seven thirty-five .. here, "town gets top cop." i was gonna pin it to your wall.
BERLIN: why so coy about the word "frozen"?
ROSS: because, don't get into it ...
BERLIN: there's nothing in the files?
ROSS: watch my lips .. don't get into it ..

BERLIN: look - 1 - 2 - 3/4 - 5 - 6 - 7 .. 
ROSS: it's an "unsolved." they spent 500 thousand dollars and bought emselves a dead end - you might wanna check it with taylor, he worked the case.
BERLIN: i already did. what's his problem?
ROSS: he thinks you stole his promotion. what exactly you doin there, john?
BERLIN: it's a method for quitting smoking.
ROSS: that's an interesting method? must help beat the withdrawal?
BERLIN: it's a technique i read about. if you smoke 60 a day, you buy three packs, throw one cigar- ette away, and smoke 59. day 2, you throw 2 away and smoke 58 ..
ROSS: why don't you throw them all away, and smoke none?
BERLIN: because it's a ritual you gotta go through with. i'm down to 10.
ROSS: you want my advice?
BERLIN: maybe?
ROSS: find yourself a farmer's daughter with nice big tits, and shake that "bye-bye." send it to sacramento, john .. i sniff grief ..

MARGIE: you're all done except the floor. 
BERLIN: you're a saint, margie, thanks ..
MARGIE: don't forget the wagon, darlin?

ROSS: you gotta stop smoking .. 
BERLIN: i am stopping smoking ...
ROSS: i don't mean this "system" that keeps you sucking, i mean stop .. i was exactly like you are .. i used to wake in the night - heart going so hard i coulda made love with my left .. if i can stop, you can ..
BERLIN: how'd you do it, old man?
ROSS: someone bet me a dollar ..
BERLIN: a dollar? .. not worth giving up for a dollar ..
ROSS: alright. i'll bet you fifty?
BERLIN: fifty dollars? you got a bet.
[MACHINE]: [j.b./ronzo/got some results for you/ first/ the blood on the bra is human/ and it's not a popular brand/a.b. neg and that's a rare one/two/the blood on the brassie- re is compatible with the blood from the hand/three/if you need anything else the official answer from all us christians down here, is off/shoot me a duck/bye]
ROSS: what are you gonna do, soldier?
BERLIN: i'm gonna dig up "jennifer."

ROSS: chief, i gotta talk to ya about this fat lady? 
CITRINE: what about her?
ROSS: she's making my life a misery .. i wanna give her a lie-detector test?

CITRINE: what is that? 
BERLIN: laser enhancement of the finger- tip .. it's really bothering me .. see these striations right here? it's like she's always worrying the end of her finger? rubbing it with a thumb nail, or something?
CITRINE: how do you know her hair's black?
BERLIN: hair on her hand. plus jen- nifer had raven black hair.
CITRINE: what is all this jennifer stuff?
BERLIN: yes, sir, i think they maybe. i think "jennifer," and this lady got hit by the same guy?
CITRINE: i don't see that at all ..
BERLIN: i got four points of posit- ive comparison on the cut ..
CITRINE: yeah, that's all very inter- esting, but where's the body?
BISLEY: just wondered if you had time to get around to my pharmacy stuff?
BERLIN: you'll have it in the morning ..
BISLEY: alright, i'll try again tomorrow.
CITRINE: probably making him feel a bit antsy seein it back on the wall.
BERLIN: i thought it was taylor's case?
CITRINE: sucked in officers from all over the county. and it was the worst six months this station ever had.
BERLIN: what do you want me to do, chief?
CITRINE: i'm not telling you what to do. what i will say, is right now, that child's tricycle there is more important to me than this ..

ROSS: .. what does he think it is? 
BERLIN [ROSS]: everything it isn't [make a left].
ROSS: it's possible.
BERLIN: c'mon, ross, the bra and hand were in different bags a 100 feet apart ..
ROSS: it's the garage on the far corner.
BERLIN: what do you mean?
ROSS: worrying - clicking - picking - you may as well be back in los angeles.
BERLIN: what do you mean, ross?
ROSS: why don't you dump it? mail it off.
BERLIN: why don't you dump the "fat lady?"
ROSS: because i dislike her too much ..
BERLIN: o.k. and i'm not in love with this fukker? that's how i feel about him.
ROSS: no you don't. that's how you think you feel about him. that's how you feel about yourself. you won't give yourself one-fucking-minute for you.
BERLIN: i just had this insane idea - if i'm wrong, i'll take a week off and redecorate your entire house ..

ANN: shasta-trinity institute. line one. 
ROSS: pig woman agreed to take a test.
BERLIN: i think i got something - twenty two years old, dark hair - study- ing mathematics - - last seen 5 weeks ago ..

GOODRIDGE: as recent as we have .. what ex- actly is your interest in amber? 
BERLIN: i'm afraid i can't give you an ans- wer to that, mr goodridge. as i ex- plained to your secretary, we're do- ing a lotta looking, but we're not even sure it's her we're lookin for ..
GOODRIDGE: then what are you hoping i'm gon- na do? dissuade, or persuade you?
BERLIN: i was hopin since we spoke that you might have remembered something that would give us an idea where she is?
GOODRIDGE: then you could have saved yourself a lot of driving, sergeant. what i said on the phone's the same as i'm saying now. i got no idea where amb- er is, or who it was took her there.
ROSS: a blind girl can just walk out of here, and you don't know who with?
GOODRIDGE: you find something curious in that?
ROSS: yeah, i guess i do.
GOODRIDGE: then let me put your mind at ease .. firstly, amber isn't "blind" - she has some useful vision - and second, this isn't a prison, it's a college of higher education - a severe vis- ual disability doesn't mean my stud- ents don't value their independence as much as anybody else - and amber was a very independent young woman - she decided to leave - so she left ..
ROSS: and you got no idea with who?
GOODRIDGE: no, sergeant, i got no idea with who. and i might add, that in another six weeks, a hundred and fifty students will be leaving here, and driving away for their christmas holidays with pe- ople whose name i-won't-know-either ..
BERLIN: yes, sir.
GOODRIDGE: as she's a member of my staff, may i ask what this is about?
BERLIN: well, apparently, she saw amber the weekend she left, and was briefly in the room with the guy she left with.
GOODRIDGE: i see .. well, she's teaching an- other class at four .. i'd apprec- iate it if you don't detain her ..

ROSS: where is everyone? 
BERLIN: i dunno .. i guess this is staff side of the building?

HELENA: what d'you wanna ask, mr ross? 
BERLIN: i'm mr berlin. mr ross is right here. and mr ross is maybe gonna take a few notes, if that's o.k.? o.k. .. i'd like you to tell me in what ever way you want, what you can remember about the time you spent with amber on the aft- ernoon she left? take your time, and nothing's too trivial, o.k.
HELENA: well, i think i told you on the phone .. i went up to her room to say good-bye, and we just sat on the bed and chatted a while, while her friend was coming in and out collecting her things ..
BERLIN: what kind of friend? was he a boy friend? an old friend? new friend?
HELENA: fifty-three.
BERLIN: you must have some idea about him.
HELENA: when we spoke on the phone, did you know i was blonde?
BERLIN: no.
HELENA: why not? you heard my voice?
BERLIN: john? .. you never said that on the phone? .. what makes you think his name was john?
HELENA: i don't know. i guess she must have called him john? i'm mak- ing tea. would you like some?
BERLIN: this looks promising .. i think this one could be it?
ROSS: thank christ we got a witness.
BERLIN: let me just keep going a while.
ROSS: what? she's blind, bro. you may as well ask one of these beethoven guys on the piano?
HELENA: well, he just said, come on, hurry up, will you, because it's starting to snow again.
BERLIN: the elevator wasn't working?
HELENA: no, it has a mind of its own.
BERLIN: can i see your hands?
HELENA: my hands?
BERLIN: is there anything else you can tell me? anything about him or her? doesn't matter how small?
HELENA: no. except he smoked. like you.
BERLIN: me?
HELENA: yes, i could smell it on his breath, like i can on your's.
BERLIN: d'you have a dog? seeing eye dog?
HELENA: no.
BERLIN: lotta scratch-marks on your door?
HELENA: sometimes i look after friends dogs, if they go to dances, or something?
ROSS: could i just refer you to this memo here, sergeant?
BERLIN: did amber have a dog?
HELENA: yes.
BERLIN: what color was it?
HELENA: i don't know.

BERLIN: .. if she writes, or calls, or any- thing at all, you let me know, o.k. 
HELENA: music composition .. and cello ..
ROSS: fifty of em. and i want em now.

BERLIN: had a seeing eye dog since she was eighteen .. didn't i tell you those dogs meant something .. 
ROSS: no, you didn't.
BERLIN: alright, i didn't, but i nearly did, and if i had i'd have been right .. i knew there was some- thing about that labrador, that dog was too good to be dead ..
ROSS: no way .. not me, mister. i'm not going up there again. might find someone's in a hot-dog roll.
BERLIN: we're going.
ROSS: forget it. they got stringent hyg- iene rules. he's long gone in lime.
BERLIN: maybe not? i'm feeling lucky ..
ROSS: so am i. but where's my money?
BERLIN: don't start again. if you win a bet, you can't keep winning it ..
ROSS: pay me, and i shut up.
BERLIN: i haven't got it.
ROSS: then give me that zippo.
BERLIN: why?
ROSS: i need some security. i don't trust you anymore.
BERLIN: i had one puff on a pipe.
ROSS: i don't want excuses, i want that weird-looking stuff called "cash."
BERLIN: what do you want it for?
ROSS: to throw out of the window.
BERLIN: what are you doing, ross?
ROSS: it's not your friend. it keeps you sucking. remem- ber the old bum's lungs?
BERLIN: i remember the old bastard's liver! i don't believe you did that. i had a great sent- imental attachment to that.
ROSS: you want me to stop the car?
BERLIN: no! get me to that garbage dump!

BERLIN: you didn't shoot him did you? 
TRIMBLE: me .. i love dogs .. ask him?

BERLIN: .. i put the slug in for a ballis- tics report, the man tells me, for get it. soft lead, it's worthless .. i think, it. and citrine. i call a friend of mine in los ang- eles, and he runs our whole show through a main-frame looking for anything similar to our ladies shot with a twenty-two - you don't believe what he finds in san diego .. 
ROSS: alright, let's take a walk around the block .. i gotta buy a gasket ..

BERLIN: six girls over a period of 18 months, and give or take a head or two, the m.o.'s exactly the same. dark hair. no hands. all shot with a high velocity twen- ty-two in the back of the head. 
ROSS: how come the f.b.i. don't put anya this together? they work- ed over "jennifer" for months?
BERLIN: they possibly did - but they nev- er had a head, so they never had a bullet - and they never got an i.d. - not on any of em - never bust a homicide unless you know who your victim is - we're the first to get a positive identity.
ROSS: identity of whom? you got a girl, doesn't even have a driver's lic- ense? .. she's untraceable, john ..
BERLIN: that's what i'm here for. i want you to come and see citrine with me? he's not gonna here it from me but i know he'd listen to you.
ROSS: listen to me saying what?
BERLIN: i wanna take that blind in- stitute to pieces .. every address book, every phone call, everyone in and outta there in the last 5 years ..
ROSS: for a dead dog?
BERLIN: we've fused into a major series, ross. this girl isn't the second victim. this is "jennifer eight."
ROSS: that isn't what you said before.
BERLIN: i was wrong.
ROSS: you're not .. he's in hospital .. he was trying out a new pair of skis in his hallway. the phone rings, and he goes for it, and falls off. he must be the only skier in northern california to break a leg in his living room.
BERLIN: you believe me, don't you?
ROSS: what does it matter what i bel- ieve? .. what you gotta worry about is what citrine believes ..

HELENA: have you been here long? 
BERLIN: no, just a minute or two .. i knocked on your door - no one home, so i followed the music ..
HELENA: i'm sorry. i'll get my things.
BERLIN: no problem. i'm not in a hurry.
HELENA: i don't think so .. no one comes here at the weekends ..

HELENA: i suppose i'm the worst witness you've ever had? 
BERLIN: i gotta admit, you're one of them. just wish i knew what you meant by a "hollow car?"
HELENA: well, some cars sound fat and some cars sound thin, and this kind of car sounded "hollow" ..

HELENA: if i came to the diner with you, would you bring me back? 
BERLIN: of course i would ..
HELENA: that's alright. you suddenly reminded me of him .. he was standing right where you are, kind of breathless, like you.

BERLIN: i'm sorry, someone slammed the door on me. i couldn't get out. 
HELENA: it was probably the wind.
BERLIN: what are you reading?
HELENA: hamlet. have you read it?
BERLIN: no.
HELENA: you should. it's wonderful.

BERLIN: .. i'll tell you what, if i prom- ise to stop being a cop, will you promise to stop being a witness? 
HELENA: are you wearing a uniform?
BERLIN: no.
HELENA: oh.
BERLIN: well, i'm glad we got the conver- sational side of lunch over with.
HELENA: i'm sorry .. i don't like sitting in the middle of a restaurant .. i feel like everyone's looking at me ..
BERLIN: there's no one "looking at you" .. there's hardly anyone in here. the only person looking at you, is me.
HELENA: are you married?
BERLIN: was. but i don't like to talk about it.
HELENA: you just asked me to ask you questions.
BERLIN: i know, but you pick on the one time in my life i like not to remember. i was in the bad lands. really not well. it's something that happens to a lota cops. we don't wanna talk about that.
HELENA: "thoughts that lie too deep for tears."
BERLIN: yeah, that'll do .. is that "hamlet?"
HELENA: no, wordsworth .. do you like poetry?
BERLIN: i don't know, i haven't read much. i don't think poetry's my kinda thing?
HELENA: do you pray?
BERLIN: pray?
HELENA: you said, you were in the bad lands?
BERLIN: no, i don't pray .. had a dream once, about just around the time i was getting well .. he was a nasty lookin little guy, moved into the apartment right on topa me .. i said, don't you listen to people's prayers? he said, prayers? not often. they're junk mail.

BERLIN: .. i got really sick of the street .. so i went to school and became a scientific services officer, which is basically a scene of crime off- icer. then this came up, and i got what they call a lateral transfer .. 
HELENA: sorry?
BERLIN: .. sorry your father, mother sis- ter, whatever .. i couldn't take another day of it .. come on, i'm gonna rob you of a cup of coffee ..

HELENA: coz i wanted to feel the snow on my face .. i think that's when i heard her call him john? 
BERLIN: no. getting dark though.
HELENA: you've already asked me that ..
BERLIN: yes. i'm sorry.

CITRINE: you're pushing this too hard. it's like you want me to say stop? you must know that's the way this is going, john? there's other work to do, why don't ya ease off a little? 
BERLIN: coz this is a major and we're closer to this than anyone's ever been.
CITRINE: then where's the body? .. where's the body, and why's he hidden it?
BERLIN: he hasn't hidden it. he never made a hit this far north before, and he never read a weather forecast .. she's probably fifteen feet from the highway, three feet under snow.
CITRINE: have you got a match on the bullet?
BERLIN: no.
CITRINE: have you got a print from the hand?
BERLIN: no, sir.
CITRINE: it could be anyone's hand. illeg- ally disposed of hospital debris ..
BERLIN: it's her hand. her scars. her dog.
CITRINE: she's not "missing." did she shout? did she scream? did he coerce her? no. she left of her own free will .. and if she gets on a plane and goes to peru with the prick, she's still not missing. you got no case, john.
BERLIN: if you're not gonna hear me, chief ..
CITRINE: i have heard you. you just don't like hearing me. you got this whole thing outta proportion. i don't know what you gotten used to in los angeles, but i don't believe there's a police chief, in this country, would put a task force together for a body part ..
BERLIN: we have a multiple homicide, sir ..
CITRINE: we have a body part in suspicious circumstances - a tailor's dummy wearing a brassiere - and a bill for seventeen dollars for its wig!

ROSS: did he shut you down? 
BERLIN: all but .. how you doing?
ROSS: i dunno, i daren't go in there - just about get her wired up, and the mayor walks in - mad as - what are we doing ing with his staff? we should be out chasing major violators ..
BERLIN: i wish he'd tell that to citrine.
ROSS: did i say he did?
BERLIN: you looked like you did?
ROSS: no, i think you'll find i looked like he could have? by accident even? he's up here spraying the scenery all day.
BERLIN: he didn't shoot it, ross. and no way by accident. there's a flash-burn. it was point-blank.
SERATO: flying colors ...
ROSS: say you didn't say that, angelo?
SERATO: i said it.
ROSS: oh my mother's are we in it?

EXPERT: this is the important one. she gets a dead straight line, and that's an exceptional reading .. 
SERATO: .. this is the stupidest thing we ever done. citrine's gonna fire one of us for this ..
ROSS: i can't believe it. i just know she someway busted it.
EXPERT: this is an honest girl. she couldn't lie if she tried ..
BERLIN: is she lying, ross?
ROSS: yes.

BERLIN: my name's sergeant john berlin. 
EMERSON: what d'ya mean, sergeant?
BERLIN: well, look at it. look at this line? that's the important one. dead straight down the page. no- body gets a dead straight down the page. even our expert says a dead straight's "exceptional."
EMERSON: i wasn't actually lying, officer.
BERLIN: you busted the box, lady! you flunk- ed it .. you lied about things you didn't need to lie about .. the only truthful statement you made's your name .. your name is carol emerson?

MARGIE: such a shame .. she's a really sweet kid .. 
ROSS: she's a doll. but i wish he hadn't brought her out here.
MARGIE: he's happy, darlin ..
ROSS: i'm sure he is. but gettin in- to the "element" is a bad idea.
MARGIE: except for the hair color, she looks just like suzanne?
ROSS: well, that's who she is.

MARGIE: you want something, darling? 
ROSS: i wouldn't mind another b.e.e.r.
BERLIN: i'm doing it by the day ...
MARGIE: she's in europe ..
BERLIN: working?
ROSS: she married some english prick.
MARGIE: he's not that bad of a guy ..?
ROSS: got a handshake like a partially excited penis.
MARGIE: her loss, darlin ..
ROSS: why's she blind, bro?
BERLIN: car accident.
ROSS: no
BERLIN: it's been a great day.
ROSS: you just go easy, brother ... alright, we're all goin home.

HELENA: i really liked margie .. 
BERLIN: she runs a kind of hair dress- ing and you know, beauty salon ..
HELENA: have you known her long?
BERLIN: i was married to her sister ..
HELENA: i know what you're like ..
BERLIN: how d'you know what i'm like?
HELENA: ross told me.
BERLIN: really? what did he say?
HELENA: he said you're quite chubby.
BERLIN: he said that? what else did he say?
HELENA: just your age.
BERLIN: which is what?
HELENA: fifty-seven .. i don't mind ..
BERLIN: you wanna drive? c'mon we're in a car park, miles from any- where .. there's nothing arou- nd but nothing and sand dunes ..
HELENA: that was the "hollow car," john.
BERLIN: a volkswagen van? are you sure?

CITRINE: i'm shutting you down on this "blind thing," john. 
BERLIN: is that my punishment for embarrassing mr heineman?
CITRINE: don't underestimate me .. the mayor's - but that's nothing to do with this - sit down - how many times have you been up at that institute?
BERLIN: three or four.
CITRINE: i'm talking, outside the girl?
BERLIN: once.
CITRINE: got a letter from this goodridge guy?
BERLIN: that's bullshit,
CITRINE: he says, you freaked one of em out? "asking a newly blind kid if he can 'see,' is both cruel, and dangerous" ..
BERLIN: i never asked if he could "see." i just asked one or two of the stud- ents if they remembered anything?
CITRINE: and did they?
BERLIN: no.
CITRINE: i'm not a nasty man, john, i'm a nice man .. i get a lot of christmas cards .. and i'm getting a lot of complaints. the guy you replaced was something you- 're not - a lazy sonovabitch - but the reality is, i was getting a faster ser- vice outta popeye than i am outta you .. i can't allow this to continue, john ..

BERLIN: it me off, ross. 
ROSS: no brother. if there was a wouldn't be at the perfect height for kicking.

VENABLES: can i buy you a beer, sergeant? 
ROSS: don't try and ingratiate your- self with me, venables. but just this once i'll have a heineken .. and john here will have one, too.
TAYLOR: no, i gotta go .. i'm nights ..
BLATTIS: gimme a ride?
TAYLOR: sure ..
ROSS: hey, we're not talking "talk" tonight.
TAYLOR: no one's gonna make that gent. six months investigation, and the nearest we got, we thought he was a sailor.
BERLIN: a sailor?
TAYLOR: yeah, in and outta frisco on the big boats .. every lead we had went right out to sea ..
BERLIN: how come he's suddenly so forth- coming? i'd like to kick him right in the ass. if he'd discussed it with me, i mighta gotten somewhere ..
ROSS: stop it.
BERLIN: i never knew about the sailor the- ory, ross. he might have that one little thing i need in his files?
ROSS: john, stop it. the case is on its ass, you're closed. c'mon, let it go for once .. have a drink. c'mon, relax, drink your beer ..

ROSS: you gotta stop calling los angeles .. you're dragging l.a. around with you like an addiction. look at the you're putting yourself through? for what? for nothing, i know it, i been there. remember me? up to my in anger, living off the vitamins in cigarettes? if there's a body under the snow, it. let somebody else worry about it. you gotta accept you stopped living in that world, and try and give yourself a break in this .. 
BERLIN: just makes to so mad ..
ROSS: you're a great policeman, but give yourself a break. you're here 5 minutes, you find yourself a homicide? .. not many people could do that in a place like this .. and you gotta admit, there's a lot of shaky areas in this case? .. i mean, stop me if i'm going up the wrong nostril ..
BERLIN: she wasn't lying about the van.
ROSS: alright, she wasn't lying about the van. but it could have been any van? any little foreign diesel? .. she's blind, bro .. it's sad .. she's pro- bably lonely, and you're a nice guy to have around .. but you're getting far too far into the element, brother ..
BERLIN: sure.
ROSS: you don't need me to tell you what hap- pens when you get emotionally involved?
BERLIN: alright, enough, ross. you'll bring on my "nervous tick" ...

BERLIN: .. feel like i'm getting close to this guy .. and all the time, feel like i'm sharpening a pencil with a broken load .. i'm sorry, king j .. 
TAYLOR: what are you looking for?
BERLIN: vehicle references.
TAYLOR: wrong cabinet.

BERLIN: i have to talk to you, helena. 
HELENA: i know.
BERLIN: you know? how do you know?
HELENA: coz you hardly said a word since you got here. but you been thinking pretty loud ..

BERLIN: got your driver's license? 
WOMAN: oh, it was you that nearly ran into me?
BERLIN: no, it was you that nearly ran into me .. you up there a lot?
WOMAN: i guess, more than usual this time of the year. my mother and i run an arts and crafts center, we buy a lot from the institutes ..
BERLIN: where's your store, amanda?
WOMAN: oakland.
BERLIN: next pit-stop, you make sure your doors are locked. merry christmas.

TAYLOR: just easy on the words you're putting in my face, sergeant .. 
ROSS: whass going on here?
TAYLOR: his blind friend got "attacked." angelo went up there, and some- how, it got itself in the paper.
BERLIN: you put it in there.
TAYLOR: i may have said some- thing. i don't recall.
BERLIN: don't lie, taylor. i just had this blattis guy on the phone asking me for a comment - you gave him the whole case!
TAYLOR: alright, i gave him the case? .. so the case is closed, so what?
BERLIN: so read it! you just hung a target around her neck!
TAYLOR: 
BERLIN: don't you know nothing about this guy? he reads the newspapers. col- lects the cuttings. when are they gonna find her? now he's reading helena robertson's name, phrased like she's a witness. you couldn't have done anything more stupid if you'd sat down and tried ..
TAYLOR: hey, c'mon, country boys, let's all line up and hear the expert.
BERLIN: just walk away from me, taylor ..
TAYLOR: you think you're the only guy ever worked a homicide? i was a big-city cop too. and i bust- ed the clock on fucken jennifer. i know more about this man than you'll over know - and that's how i know it ain't him - you- 're investigating a soap-opera ..
ROSS: alright, guys. we stop this now.
TAYLOR: he tells her, "bye-bye," and she gets "attacked." well, give me a break! there is no "ser- ial killer." stick her name up in neon, there's still no serial kil- ler! and i ain't the only one say- ing it. everyone in this building is saying it. and i mean everyone.
ROSS: shut up, king jay ..
TAYLOR: no, c'mon, freddy, let's have this out and over. you know what everyone thinks? they think you're making a case coz you found yourself a nice piece of ass. and no one's blaming you for it, i hear she's worth the flowers. but don't come in here get- ting holy over us. sure i put it in the paper. coz i wanted to stop this i don't want you drunk out- ta your head searching my office ag- ain. it's me, and everyone off.
BERLIN: you don't know what you done, taylor.
TAYLOR: if, your friend from san diego was up here, and thought for one out of two fucken seconds, she was a danger to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago ..
BERLIN: i know what a "witness" is.
TAYLOR: well, her, it ain't. that is blind as a blonde fucken bat.
BERLIN: i'm gonna do something you never did, taylor. i'm gonna catch this bastard. and when i do, he's gon- na find out just how good a "wit- ness" she is .. meanwhile, you be aware of me - coz i wish you ill ..

BERLIN: nothing you gotta say do i wanna hear right now. so save yourself saying it. 
ROSS: i'm not in here to apologize, john. i told you what was gonna happen and it's happened? "good-bye, princess," and the same night she gets attacked?
BERLIN: i'm already familiar with taylor's opinion.
ROSS: you don't really believe this?
BERLIN: one hundred per cent! .. and you know why? coz i never told her good-bye. o.k.? is that good enough for the "committee?"
ROSS: well .. i didn't know that ..
BERLIN: no .. you didn't know that ..
ROSS: who d'you think it was?
BERLIN: that's a very stupid question, ross.
ROSS: i'm asking it.
BERLIN: how the do i know who? some jerk-off. some peeping-tom prick.
ROSS: ease off, john ..
BERLIN: i'm sick of this toy town
ROSS: everything you say sounds reason- able. but there's also a reason- able explanation for the opposite.
BERLIN: don't give me that! not another word! when you had the fat lady in there, and i asked you if she was lying, you looked me right in the eyes and said yes. so as far as i was concerned, she's ly- ing. and if the king of england had walked in and told me different, i wouldn't have bel- ieved him - because you told me ..
ROSS: i dunno what i can do to help you?
BERLIN: i dunno what i'd do with your help.
ROSS: what about citrine?
BERLIN: screw citrine. he can fire me.

BERLIN: has he got your aunt's address? 
HELENA: i don't think so .. he said the police had been calling .. want- ed to ask me some more questions ..
BERLIN: who? probably angelo .. i'll take care of it .. don't worry, we- 're gonna find this guy, and everything'll be o.k. .. o.k.? only thing he fails to mention is which guy he's talking about. anyway the subject is already changed. he notices tapes in her bag. "would you like me to put your music on?" no, she doesn't want music. o.k. he's gonna light the fire and make them lunch.

BERLIN: you're looking worried again, helena? 
HELENA: no i'm not.
BERLIN: you're looking more worried now than when you "decided to stop worrying"?
HELENA: alright, i'm worried about christmas. i wish i hadn't told him i'd be back ..
BERLIN: he'll get over it. i'll roast us a chicken, o.k. with cand- les around it. how about that?
HELENA: wouldn't it be better if i cook it? you said, you can only boil?

BERLIN: can't thank you enough, ross .. 
ROSS: don't thank me. thank margie.

MARGIE: not "you" blue. this isn't you. 
HELENA: when did john divorce?
MARGIE: two or three years ago.
HELENA: what was she like?
MARGIE: suzanne? very pretty. she was a semi- professional model. but a policeman's wife she wasn't. so one day, she just packed it and left. and his whole life went straight down the nearest toilet.
HELENA: what does that mean?
MARGIE: you know, he crashed. he just couldn't come to terms with it .. john hates to lose, and he hated losing her .. every spare minute, he's driving down to san diego, having a terrible time with her, getting drunk, and driving back .. you just don't believe the amount he drank ..
HELENA: you think he still loves her?
MARGIE: think he still thinks about her. but not like then. then was an obsession.
HELENA: i haven't worn heels since i was 16.
MARGIE: sure you can. anyway, parties are all about standing still ..
HELENA: you think john would like it?
MARGIE: i think john, would love it ...

SERATO: duty sergeant up .. can you believe it, i'm on tonight .. 
BERLIN: no.
SERATO: i left a message on your machine. it wasn't me calling. sam around?
ROSS: yeah .. i guess she's in the kit- chen .. we got a so-called prof- essional cook out there having a nervous breakdown over a turkey ..
BERLIN: are you sure you didn't call?
SERATO: i spoke to old whass-his-name a couple of times. but not to her, and i never asked for her ..
ROSS: her who?
BERLIN: someone's calling the institute to talk to helena. says he wants to ask her some more questions ..
SERATO: not guilty ..
BERLIN: you got a quiet phone somewhere?
ROSS: hey, john, don't start getting antsy over this tonight. it may well have been the local cops?
BERLIN: that's just what i wanna find out.

MARGIE: how you doing on those shoes? 
HELENA: don't mix very well with beer.
MARGIE: girl like you should be drinking chill white wine. press. all done.
BOBBY: that woman in the kitchen says if she doesn't get help within 10 seconds, she's gonna resign.
MARGIE: that woman is a disaster ...

BOBBY: i'll just go see if he's in the kitchen .. you stay right here .. 
VENABLES: hey, popeye!
POPEYE: hey, fat guy! gimme 2 minutes. i'm about to ask this lady for a dance?
HELENA: i know what you look like. excuse me.
FLESHY VOICE: happy christmas, max ...
MAX: i normally get socks ...

MARGIE: she wants to go back to the institute .. 
ROSS: i know .. ain't it a shame ..

ROSS: you can't get in there .. that's "comanche proof." 
BERLIN: what are you doin?
ROSS: i spose i'm drinking myself to sleep. it's helena's christmas songs .. they're really pretty ..
BERLIN: have you got any glasers? twenty fives?
ROSS: what exactly you doing, john?
BERLIN: i'm going up to the institute.
ROSS: now?
BERLIN: this "cop" that's calling, thinks she gonna be there over christmas.
ROSS: well, let's hope he does ..
BERLIN: listen, you don't havta come?
ROSS: hey ..

ROSS: where's your watch? 
BERLIN: i guess by the bed.
ROSS: it's twenty of three.
BERLIN: bull .. i'm in my prime ..
ROSS: bits.
BERLIN: what d'you mean, "bits."
ROSS: policemen's bodies age at diff- erent rates. look at me. gut in its fifties. in their six- ties. and feet in their eighties ..
BERLIN: hit those wipers, ross.

ROSS: what if we need a back up? 
BERLIN: we're not here. i don't want the desk to hear us ..

BERLIN: alright. i'll start at the top, and work down. 
ROSS: you ain't going in alone?
BERLIN: that's a liability, ross. i don't want you hanging on to my shirt. anyone but me comes down these stairs, take em out but try and keep him alive. i want this living ..

BERLIN [?]: me, freddy. 
ROSS: what the hell's going on up there, brother? i been calling 10 minutes.

BERLIN: where's margie? 
SERATO: taken bobby to her sister's ..
BERLIN: does he know?
SERATO: thinks his dad's in hospital.
BERLIN: i want you to go to your aunt's.
HELENA: why can't i stay with you?
BERLIN: it's not possible right now.
HELENA: why?
BERLIN: please don't ask no quest- ions now .. not right now ..
HELENA: is that margie?
MARGIE: i'm here, honey. i'm right here.
BERLIN: margie ..
MARGIE: don't.
BERLIN: she has an aunt, in vermont.
HELENA: i'm going back to the institute.
BERLIN: no .. not now ..
MARGIE: helena can stay here if she'd like to .. i'd like her to .. i'll look after her .. and she can look after me .. i'm tired now .. i must sleep ..

BERLIN: what are you doing, travis? 
TRAVIS: i been told to take your car in, sir.
BERLIN: why?
TRAVIS: i dunno, sir. brought you up a chevy.
BERLIN: you got a warrant for this?
TRAVIS: yes, sir.
BERLIN: who sought the warrant?
TRAVIS: the man from the f.b.i.

BERLIN: i want a 24 hour protection of margie's house. otherwise i'm not saying nothing. you give me that, or read me my rights, and talk to a lawyer. 
CITRINE: alright, you got it. and i'll be putting an observer in with you.
BERLIN: i want serato .. why can't i have serato?
CITRINE: coz i'm short of men and ang- elo won't do it .. who ever i got free first - you get ..

BERLIN: i have done .. 
BERLIN: because of a feeling. i had a bad feeling this man was gonna turn up. st anne which man is that?
BERLIN: the man i detail in my report, sir.
BERLIN: i'm not prepared to be interrog- ated. i'll be interviewed as an officer, who may be expected to cooperate with the investigator. st anne well, that's fine by me, john. and i'm sure that's fine by your chief.
BERLIN: yes. st anne bit of a long-shot, wasn't it?
BERLIN: it was the only shot i had .. st anne so the one night you decide to go up there, he goes up there?
BERLIN: that's right. except i'd decid- ed to go up there every night .. st anne despite the wishes of your chief?
BERLIN: yes. st anne you were prepared to fal- sify your reports to him?
BERLIN: i had very good reasons for do.... st anne just a second, john. i knew there was something missing.
BERLIN: you're asking the questions, sir .. st anne you had an argument with ross? ass- aulted one of the officers, right?
BERLIN: i wouldn't use the word "assault." st anne you got a "racy temper," sergeant?
BERLIN: not especially. st anne just something they did, on this occasion, made you lose your rag?
BERLIN: not they. he. taylor put a piece in the newspaper, which in my op- inion put my witness in jeopardy. st anne from whom?
BERLIN: from the man i detail in my rep- ort. a crazy man, who to my cert- ain knowledge has killed at least eight girls. six in san diego, one someplace else, and one up here .. st anne not a lotta support for that "scenario" though, is there?
BERLIN: not a lot. st anne not even from ross?
BERLIN: no. st anne
BERLIN: what do you mean, sir? st anne i mean, who is he?
BERLIN: i don't know who he is. who's "jack the ripper?" he's jack the ripper with an automobile. st anne you didn't run a profile?
BERLIN: no, sir .. i didn't have the res- ources, and it isn't my expertise. st anne this crazy man? what makes you think he wants to eliminate miss robertson?
BERLIN: you read my report, sir. st anne i'm asking a question ..
BERLIN: because he reads i'm investigating the disappearance of her friend, and miss robertson becomes the focus of his anxiety. how good of a "witness" is she? he's crazy, but not stupid, he's intelligent. got a flexible m. o., and he doesn't wanna get caught. st anne just like "jack the ripper?"

BERLIN: i realized the flashlight was at the bottom of the stairs st anne did you check your weapon? 
BERLIN: maybe. it would have been instinctive. all i know was i was in possession of it .. st anne you didn't check it?
BERLIN: not that i specifically remember. st anne why not?
BERLIN: i don't know. i wasn't think- ing about it .. i was dazed .. st anne you were woozy? confused?
BERLIN: i was unconscious 10 seconds ago. st anne i understand. then?
BERLIN: then i picked up the flashlight, tried to get ross on the radio .. nothing. static. i got blood on my hand, realized my eye was cut. st anne could you see out of it?
BERLIN: yeah, i could see. then i ran. climbed out of the window, ran down the fire escape, and right at the bottom, i found ross .. st anne were you breathless?
BERLIN: sure i was breathless ... st anne when did you realize you were no longer in possession of the .25?
BERLIN: not until i was in the hospital. st anne you figure you lost it in the hospital? or on the way there?
BERLIN: no, i thought it must have fallen down the stairwell. st anne [berlin] like the flashlight? [yeah] had you been drinking that night?
BERLIN: it was christmas eve. st anne that wasn't my question?
BERLIN: yes. st anne [berlin] how about ross? [sure] were you drinking in the car? [?] there was a bottle in the car?
BERLIN: i think ross had a mouthful? st anne but not you?
BERLIN: i may have had a nip? st anne to keep out the cold? .. very cold that night, very windy, wasn't it?
BERLIN: my left hand. st anne and the walther was in your right?
BERLIN: the beretta was in my right hand .. st anne you said you didn't check it? so how d'you know which gun you're holding?
BERLIN: let's not start playing games, mr st anne. st anne games?
BERLIN: i told you, i'd lost the walther .. st anne you told me you didn't know you'd lost it until you were in the hos- pital? so, if you didn't know till then, it coulda been either weapon?
BERLIN: the gun in my hand was a beretta. and for the record, i want that note corrected. now, please, sir.
BERLIN: with respect, sir, you didn't make a mistake. i know who you are, and you're far too experienced for mis- takes. now if you have doubts over the content, or veracity of my rep- ort, i wanna be made aware of them? st anne sure.
BERLIN: i wanna be made aware of them now. st anne do you want a lawyer, sergeant?
BERLIN: there you go again? "do i want a lawyer, sergeant?" it's a game question. what do i want a law- yer for? i got nothing to hide .. st anne you don't?
BERLIN: you know i don't. so let's quit the and get down to it. what's your "angle," mr st anne?
BERLIN: i've no idea. st anne you don't?
BERLIN: if it isn't in the institute, the man who shot ross took it. st anne the man who shot ross, used it ..

MARGIE: your daddy would have wanted you to be strong .. we gotta be strong for daddy, darling .. 
BOBBY: i don't want her in this house .. i want my dad. why did she have to come here .. i want my daddy ..

BERLIN: no. st anne tell us what happened, then? 
BERLIN: i already told you what happened .. you're looking for an inconsisten- cy, and you're not gonna find one, because i'm telling you the truth. st anne tell me the truth again.

BERLIN: i guess i was drinking too much. st anne i was talking about "cigarettes?" find yourself getting breathless? 
BERLIN: sure. st anne specially if you're running? which floor did the elevator run up to?
BERLIN: five. st anne
BERLIN: no. st anne you didn't check?
BERLIN: there wasn't time ... st anne that wasn't my question?
BERLIN: no, sir, i didn't check.
BERLIN: what's the relevance of the janitor? st anne the janitor? let me just ask you a question - before i forget - do you take any medication for that?
BERLIN: for what? st anne breathlessness?
BERLIN: no.
BERLIN: two people know i didn't kill him, mr st anne. one's me, and the other's the man that did. st anne what man?
BERLIN: how d'you know the jan- itor didn't shoot him?

SERATO: she's in love with him, chief, and try anything? 
CITRINE: are you going up there?
SERATO: no, i just sent travis.
CITRINE: what about the man? .. has he seen this? .. [no he hasn't] .. alright, make your call, and get up there ... or not, i wanna proper statement ..

ASSISTANT: no, sir, they just got back. 
CITRINE: would you ask mr st anne to come in here a moment?
BISLEY: i hear i've been nominated as an official "observer?"
CITRINE: it's either you, or taylor?
BISLEY: he don't wanna do it either.
CITRINE: i'll toss a coin for you. but one of you is going in today ..

BERLIN: i need a friend, angelo. 
SERATO: you got one.

BERLIN: .. i know why you did it darlin, but you're not helping me. every- thing they're hearing they think is a lie. now here comes the man i'm desperate to prove exists, and whadda-ya-know, he turns up at my house, and has a "chat" with you? 
HELENA: don't say that. don't you dare say that .. i believe you ..
BERLIN: i know you're trying to help me, but you don't understand.
HELENA: then explain it to me. i got enough darkness, don't i?
BERLIN: the man who killed amber is a psychopath. he was up at the in- stitute to kill you - he don't wanna kill rose - he was there to kill you - that's the truth - and i didn't wanna tell it to you - but that's the reason i want you to stay at margie's - coz i can't protect you here ..
HELENA: why does he want to kill me?
BERLIN: coz he thinks you're a witness.
HELENA: i can't identify him ..
BERLIN: he don't know that. i didn't.
HELENA: then why didn't he kill me?
BERLIN: will you fucken stop it. i'm not serato .. he didn't kill you coz he wasn't here .. he isn't in the room with you, and lets you live ..
HELENA: kiss me, john .. kiss me [he does] i love you, kiss me again [he does] i love you .. are my lips lying to you? kiss my mouth [he does] is my mouth lying to you? he. was. here.

HELENA: i just remembered something .. 
BERLIN: a "breath freshener?"
HELENA: i heard it hiss, twice.
BERLIN: ... he's either here to take something .. or leave some- thing .. i don't find nothing ..

HELENA: you gotta stop drinking, darling. 
BERLIN: he doesn't need my help.
HELENA: i know about alcohol, john.
BERLIN: you do?
HELENA: i'm blind because my father drank.

BERLIN: ross was my best friend. st anne did you shoot your "best friend?" 
BERLIN: no. st anne
[TAPE]: .. "just be careful now, coz i'm coming up." .. [footsteps on cast iron stairs] "is that you, john? .. answer .. now .. or i blow this fucken staircase to pie- ces." [sound of someone breathing hard]
TAYLOR: he's offerin you a deal?
BERLIN: he ain't offerin me
TAYLOR: i don't like you. but don't kid yourself .. i don't take no ple- asure sitting in on another cop ..

MYOPIC: well .. i dunno .. it could be? st anne alright, thank you, mr dawson .. 
CITRINE: what's all this "deal" business?

BERLIN: you don't wanna sit here any more, sweetheart .. 
HELENA: i wanna be near you ...
BERLIN: i think they're gonna arrest me.
HELENA: i don't want them to arrest you.
BERLIN: it's not as bad as it sounds .. they can't refuse me bail. raise bail of my own cognizance and find the best lawyer there is ..
HELENA: oh, john, i'd do anything, anything, to get you free.

BERLIN: i've told you the truth. it isn't me .. i've never call- ed ross "freddy" in my life .. 
TAYLOR: i've heard you call him freddy.
BERLIN: you haven't. and you got no voice in here, taylor, so keep it shut. st anne tell a lotta lies, don't you? some- thing that comes naturally to you?
BERLIN: i don't lie. st anne prepared to lie to your chief?
BERLIN: under exceptional circumstances. st anne what were the circumstances that caused you to lie to freddy ross?
BERLIN: i never lied to ross .. st anne you didn't?
BERLIN: no way, mr st anne. st anne lost your temper with ross, didn't you? c'mon, tell me the truth. is that what happened? you had an arg- ument in the car? lost your temper with him? stood over him, blew his larynx out with a glaser? - where were you aiming, john? going for his face? blow his face away, because you hated him so much.
BERLIN: i loved that guy .. and the hard- est thing to take in here .. is knowing he thought i killed him .. st anne well, that he did .. and that do i, sergeant berlin ..
BERLIN: i don't know what that is. st anne
BERLIN: i need .. some time .. to think sir .. st anne alright. think about it. but don't you make a fool of me. you come in here with one more lie, and i bull- you not, i'm gonna press for the maximum penalty there is. and that's the death penalty, sergeant.

BERLIN: this capsule came out of a v.w. van - i didn't even think about it - stuck it in the ashtray - if i'd been smok- ing, ita been thrown away weeks ago .. no, amanda - it's definitely amanda .. 
BERLIN: you be careful .. this man's close ..
MARGIE: if you find him, john. i want you to call me. i wanna know his name.

BERLIN: i'm sorry to trouble you, but eh .. wait a minute, don't i know you? 
AMANDA: as i said, sergeant, you nearly ran into me? what's the problem?
BERLIN: i'm afraid it's the "van" again.
AMANDA: the van?
BERLIN: is it your vehicle?
AMANDA: no, my mother's .. you better stop in .. i'm just here to feed the cat.

BERLIN: i'm sorry to worry you with this, but we had a real serious robbery, and we- 're chasing a white v.w. van? you guy came up an the computer, so as a matt- er of routine we have to check. could you tell me who's driven it recently? 
AMANDA: only me and mom ..
BERLIN: how about any guys on your staff?
AMANDA: we only got one .. he doesn't drive.
BERLIN [AMANDA]: would he have lent it to anyone? [no] how bout your dad? husband? boyfriend?
AMANDA: he is my boyfriend. my fath- er's dead, and i'm divorced.
BERLIN: i see ...
AMANDA: i thought this was "routine?"
BERLIN: could i have his name? just so i can officially eliminate him?
AMANDA: could i see your badge again?

MALE REPORTER: detectives spent several hours this morning at sergeant berlin's home .. various property was removed for ex- amination. later in the morning, may- or heineman arrived for a meeting with police officers from shasta valley .. 
HEINEMAN: jim unable to say anything right now, except, this is a very sad and tragic day. john berlin lied to us all. lied to me, and much worse, lied to every man, woman, and child in this community ..
WOMAN REPORTER: where was mr berlin arrested, sir?
HEINEMAN: near the ross residence .. six a.m. ..
MALE REPORTER: who made the arrest?
HEINEMAN: sergeant john taylor. assist- ed by sergeant angelo serato ..

BERLIN: i'll sign anything you want. please. 
CITRINE: you ain't talking to no one, till you calm down.
BERLIN: i am calm .. i am calm ..

MARGIE: what are you doing here? 
TAYLOR: been trying to call, your line's down .. i just wanna let you know we're taking the guard off today.
MARGIE: i'm taking her back to the instit- ute. her new term starts tomorrow.
TAYLOR: not gonna try and bail him are you? i really wouldn't bother, margie ..
MARGIE: no .. i'll drive her ..

BERLIN: i'll sign anything you like - you write it, i'll sign it. but i want her and margie here. i want an opp- ortunity to talk to them - that's all i'm asking? - that's my deal? .. st anne o.k. i'll put it to your chief? 
BERLIN: well, you'd better put it to him pretty dammed quick, mr st anne, because if you don't, she's dead. st anne didn't push her down stairs on their previous meeting, did he?
BERLIN: he was up there to plant the gun. st anne did taylor plant this, too?
TRAVIS: margie ross put up your bond, sir.
BERLIN: are you getting in the way of it?

BOBBY: there's no one here. 
BERLIN: where are they?
BOBBY: mom took her back to the institute.
BERLIN: is margie with her? is she with her?
BOBBY: no, she came back and went out ag- ain .. gone to see auntie charles ..
BERLIN: come on, bobby, for sake. i wanna get the man that killed him.
BOBBY: i hate you .. i really hate you ..

BERLIN: go take a look in his office. it's fulla rattan - that's the connect- ion, that's the "link" - that's why they never got an i.d. - he kills blind girls - put their picture in the newspaper, and 99 percent of the people who know them are blind .. 
BERLIN: he is insane. his fucken brain's upside down. but he's also very cunning. he's not going after her with a "pearl handled colt," he- 'll just push her down the stairs ..

