speaker1: and they pay you for this? to tag beaver? 
speaker2: imagine.

speaker1: ask me, what an animal does in the wild is his own business so long as he doesn't do it to man. i think mark twain said that. 
speaker2: i think he didn't. but since you've said it, i guess we're covered. keough holds a stare. walt drops overboard. keough pulls a from his pocket. begins to unwrap.

speaker1: kelly. 
speaker2: kevin, hey.
speaker1: hi. listen. could i steal you a second?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: i had a great time last night.
speaker2: me too.
speaker2: that's not what you came to say.
speaker1: you work for me. i'm not comfortable with-- y'know, "us"...
speaker2: i was working for you when "us" started, what's--
speaker1: i know and i thought i could handle it but work and pleasure along with somebody else, it's a dangerous mix.
speaker2: kevin, as long as we... what was that last part?
speaker1: the somebody else part?
speaker2: yeah, that part. there's...
speaker1: else.
speaker2: oh. oh. that's okay. well. this uh... this probably wasn't meant to be, y'know. i mean, i'm... i gotta be ten years younger and you, you... you're y'know...
speaker1: a jerk.
speaker2: oh... no, no, i'm not angry i'm not, i'm just thrown, i'm... i actually have an early lunch, so...
speaker1: it's ten after nine.
speaker2: yes, well... famished.

speaker1: sheriff!! 
speaker2: hey!
speaker2: christ.
speaker3: clenching around keough's arm.

speaker1: the monster pursues its human victim. 
speaker2: fear on her face.

speaker1: what do you expect, mugging me from behind? 
speaker2: i tapped you.
speaker1: well you shouldn't have. how did you even know where i was.
speaker2: wild guess.
speaker1: i don't like to be scared, myra, i have a thing about fright, don't ever scare me.
speaker2: kevin told me you were upset.
speaker1: really? i never realized he was so psychic, how could he detect that, did he tell you there's somebody else?
speaker2: well... he didn't have to tell me that part.
speaker1: you?
speaker2: it started before you, kelly, i never would've--
speaker1: you?
speaker2: it was just a quick thing which we thought was over, and and...
speaker1: you and kevin.
speaker2: it wasn't suppose to happen, i don't know what to say...
speaker1: you don't know what to say, lucky for you action speaks louder than words.
speaker2: kelly--
speaker1: i'm not upset, myra, okay. i just never thought of you as a y'know...
speaker2: backstabber?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: liar?
speaker1: myra.
speaker2: shitbutt?
speaker1: i really... i should get back.
speaker1: don't with me!

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: kevin. how's it going, what's happenin', family good, great, nice to catch up, get out.
speaker1: this is business. there was an accident in maine, some guy got killed by something in a lake. probably a bear, but...
speaker2: a tooth?
speaker1: a tooth they say couldn't have come from any bear. they say it looks prehistoric. like maybe a dinosaur.
speaker2: oh, well then i'm sure that's it, he got killed by a dinosaur, anything else?
speaker1: i want you to go there.
speaker2: sorry?
speaker1: i'm sure it's nothing, but you're a paleontologist, this is what we do, i--
speaker2: this is what we do?
speaker1: i'd like you to check out this lake. see--
speaker2: are you on drugs?
speaker1: kelly--
speaker2: i'm not going to maine, i won't even go west of forty-third street--
speaker1: part of our research--
speaker2: i'm not even a field person.
speaker1: well on this one i'd like you to be.
speaker2: this was myra's idea, wasn't it? get me out of the office for a few days, until--
speaker1: it has nothing to do with--
speaker2: i never do field work and even if i did, maine, to look at a tooth of a dinosaur who bit somebody, couldn't you dream up something--
speaker1: kelly--
speaker2: i am not going to maine. that's ridiculous.

speaker1: he just came up screaming. 
speaker2: did he say anything?
speaker1: he just kinda gurgled. he was pretty much dead.
speaker2: and you didn't see anything?
speaker1: the lake was dead calm until up he came. the tooth is in there.
speaker2: there? that's the morgue.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: is the dead guy in there?
speaker1: that's where they keep them. you want me to bring the tooth out here?
speaker2: um. no, no. let's go.
speaker3: reveal--

speaker1: i need to get a microscopic look at it. 
speaker2: fine. there you go.
speaker1: maybe i should see...
speaker3: i wouldn't.
speaker1: i'm fine, thank you.
speaker3: have you ever seen a dead body before, ms. scott?
speaker1: well. at wakes.
speaker3: this is a little different.
speaker1: i can look at dead things. and daniels is about to pull the sheet back--
speaker1: wait.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: this... how long did this attack go on for?
speaker3: seconds. three, four.
speaker1: and this is how he came to the boat?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: okay. and is there a place nearby i could go to vomit?

speaker1: nobody lives within twenty-five miles, 'cept some old couple who live right on the lake. teenagers trek in every once in a while, none have disappeared, and none have spotted anything unusual. 
speaker2: you talk to the married couple?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker2: what kind of backup do we have?
speaker1: we?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: sorry. i'm just a little unclear as to why the museum of natural history would send somebody here.
speaker2: you have a thing against museums?
speaker1: i got nothing against--
speaker2: ever even been in one?
speaker2: what is that?
speaker1: lightweight forward area air device unit. whatever's out there, one shot with this and he's dead.
speaker2: and you stock these things for what, to fend off russia?
speaker1: you're sort of a rude person.
speaker2: it's just that--
speaker2: mosquitos. i have a thing about mosquitos.
speaker3: we set?
speaker1: ready. a museum in new york sent us some additional back up.
speaker2: kelly scott.
speaker3: jack wells. a museum sent you?
speaker2: are we all museum bigots in maine?
speaker3: did you make anything of the tooth?
speaker2: yes, it did seem prehistoric but i'm sure he just carried the thing for luck. not that it worked, obviously. it probably somehow got lodged into his body.
speaker2: why are you staring at me? do i have a smudge on my face, it would be so you not to have told me.
speaker1: i'm ready when you are.
speaker3: let's go.
speaker2: excuse me. one other thing, it's a small point, but... i have a thing about being humored, and i'm feeling humored, more by him, but you seemed quick to join in.
speaker3: ma'am, your first impression isn't going well.
speaker4: excuse me? is it true you're going to look for some kind of monster in black lake?
speaker1: we're just going to investigate an accident. there's no monster.
speaker4: we heard a man got bit in half.
speaker1: there was an accident, that's all. nothing to worry about.
speaker2: please.

speaker1: oh, my husband passed away almost two years ago. 
speaker2: my department doesn't have any record of that, mrs. bickerman.
speaker1: oh well, i'm sorry. i didn't realize you keep such a firm track of the dead.
speaker3: what was the cause of your husband's death, ma'am, do you know?
speaker3: we don't mean to invade your privacy but... was he ill, was he sick?
speaker2: was he swallowed?
speaker3: sheriff.
speaker4: mrs. bickerman, the reason we're up here... a man was fatally attacked yesterday by some animal in this lake. do you know how your husband died?
speaker1: oh yes. i killed him.
speaker4: you killed him.
speaker1: oh, yes.
speaker2: and how would you have accomplished this, ma'am?
speaker1: well, he was very ill and he refused to go see a doctor and well... i think he had alzheimer's, he would be coherent one day, incoherent the next and one coherent day, he asked me to end his suffering. i wouldn't do it but he kept insisting and insisting and deteriorating till the point the only cognitive thing he could really do was that i finish him off. finally i just gave in and hit him on the head with a skillet then buried him under the bulkhead.
speaker1: dig him up if you don't believe me, javert.

speaker1: half mile up, there's a clearing. 
speaker2: you gonna dig up that lady's husband?
speaker1: i'll call the coroner.
speaker3: what is with this lake? it looks black and... there are no waves or anything.
speaker1: they wanted to call it lake placid. but somebody said that name was taken.
speaker3: gee.
speaker1: the tents were sent ahead, they should already be set-up.
speaker3: we're staying in tents?
speaker1: i told you. two days, we'd have to camp.
speaker3: yes, camp, i thought that meant holiday inn, i never heard "tents", will there be toilets?
speaker1: what the hell?
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i thought i saw...
speaker3: it looks like a branch.
speaker1: hey!!
speaker3: you threw it at me!!
speaker1: i just let go of it.
speaker3: don't throw heads at me, and stop calling me "ma'am"!

speaker1: a beat. this head looks ripped off the body. 
speaker2: what is going on here?

speaker1: how big do the bears get? 
speaker2: big but... a bear couldn't do that to a moose or man in water. on land maybe. but...
speaker1: and they're sure he didn't get tangled under the outboard somehow?
speaker2: hank says he's sure.
speaker1: it really is beautiful, isn't it?
speaker2: never been to maine before?
speaker1: i was told they discriminate against people with hygiene. i never believed it.
speaker2: why are you here? really.
speaker1: i told you.
speaker2: the museum of natural history doesn't send out investigators to--
speaker1: how would you know, what--
speaker2: and even if they did, i doubt he or she would have problems with tents.
speaker1: so i don't like tents, why--
speaker2: you don't like tents, mosquitos, look at your fingernails, you have about as much business being in the woods--

speaker1: they sent you out to examine a tooth, why are you out here on the on the lake? 
speaker2: i am a paleontologist. i also was dating my boss he turned out to be involved with a co-worker who was also my friend and for the sake of comfort, theirs, i was shipped off to maine. i don't feel like going back yet.
speaker2: i'm not making it up.
speaker1: well. you don't have to stay out here, why don't--
speaker2: i've come, i'm here, i'm staying. unless there are ticks.
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if this is who i think it is. it is.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: hector cyr. he's a rich kook mythology professor. he's done some work with our museum. he also treks the world to swim with crocodiles.
speaker3: with what?
speaker2: crocodiles. he's an expert on them. and if he's here... then he must think that's what's in this lake.
speaker1: in maine?
speaker2: there have been northern sightings. but not this north.
speaker4: you beat me. balls. i need some of you to help me unpack. you and you. not you. who do we have from fish and game?
speaker4: i could see the algae blooms just coming in, how long has this lake been stagnant? hi, hector cyr. the earth is round and so should you be.
speaker3: --who is he?
speaker4: i'll need any and all topographic studies.
speaker3: wait just a second. you don't just fly in here and start barking orders.
speaker4: i apologize, i just don't want to lose the light, we've got time for a quick scout, you've had work done.
speaker4: hector cyr, i said it once, let me know when it sinks in, have you seen it?
speaker2: it couldn't be a crocodile.
speaker4: they've been migrating north, kelly, this lake connects to the ocean,--
speaker3: mr. cyr!
speaker4: c'mon, we're losing light, why does the big one heckle me?
speaker2: hector. the big one has no sense of humor. and since he's the one who decides whether you get to play, try not to be your obnoxious self.
speaker4: that hurt my feelings.
speaker1: if we're gonna go we better go.

speaker1: if he's here, i'll find him. did she tell you we had together? 
speaker2: i never had with you!
speaker1: even so, you're allowed to boast. you look thin by the way, i've mentally undressed you, i can see your ribcage.
speaker3: i really don't mean to be discourteous. but how is it a person could come to believe that a crocodile is in new england?
speaker1: they have saltwater glands, they can swim across oceans, it's only a matter of time.
speaker3: and what would he do come winter?
speaker1: they can survive winter. as long as their nostrils don't freeze, they survive, am i foolish to explain things, he had such trouble with my name?
speaker1: is this where it happened?
speaker3: around here. yeah.
speaker1: if he's eaten in the area, he shouldn't be far away. crocs hang around the food source.
speaker2: but they're nighttime hunters, hector, he'd probably be on land now anyway.
speaker1: 'cept he wasn't before, was he? you know, when friends or family members say things, they tend not to register so sometimes it helps to hear it from a total stranger.
speaker2: hector.
speaker4: what's that?
speaker3: white perch.
speaker4: are they feeding?
speaker3: doesn't look like it.
speaker4: they look like they're jumping.
speaker2: they look scared.
speaker2: my hair.

speaker1: none of us actually saw anything. i realize this sir, but something flipped us over, i doubt very much it was a mink. 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker3: they don't believe her.
speaker1: thank you, it's so rewarding to imagine my tax dollar finding its way to you, you
speaker2: such the flirt.
speaker1: u.s. wildlife won't send anybody without a confirmation.
speaker4: same thing from fish and game.
speaker1: something's in that water.
speaker4: well until we see it, we're not gonna be convincing too many people.
speaker5: sheriff.
speaker5: you might want to see this.

speaker1: it's a human toe. 
speaker2: some decomposition, little acidic, it has been swallowed. is this the man who was killed?
speaker3: we'd only just met.
speaker2: well, you've got a croc alright, they're keystone species.
speaker3: keystone what?
speaker2: species, keystones affect the entire ecosystem, that could explain all these worms, the water. you've got a crocodile. bury your friend.

speaker1: baby crocs? 
speaker2: adult males will charge hatchlings.
speaker1: if one could be out there... why does fish and game tell me it's impossible?
speaker2: because they just consult their little indigenous charts.
speaker1: listen... if you really do know crocs, you should know how stealth like they are. i wouldn't be standing a foot from the water.
speaker1: he could be right there and you wouldn't see him.
speaker2: i'd be able to see something.
speaker2: oh that's funny. that was real funny.

speaker1: you're a beautiful woman. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: and law enforcement, such dangerous work. the idea that you could die suddenly with no offspring, disconcerting, let's mate, commit your genes to perpetuity.
speaker3: hey.
speaker3: we are here on official business.
speaker1: cocktail?
speaker3: no!! what's with digging the holes?
speaker1: they come on land and they're brazen. they're also attracted to noise, you can see i make a lot of it.
speaker3: everybody out, back to your tents, now!
speaker1: could she stay, we've tentatively scheduled intercourse.
speaker3: no!! out!
speaker3: you listen to me. the only reason i'm letting you be part of this is 'cause you got the helicopter and the radar--
speaker1: and you like me.
speaker3: i do not like you.
speaker1: deep down, gut check. i'm growing fond of you and it's liberating to say so.
speaker3: you're a whacko.
speaker1: that hurt my feelings.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: skipping stones. look how flat that water is, you can get ten skips on a good one.
speaker1: listen, uh... hank and i think it best if you stay on shore.
speaker2: i beg your pardon?
speaker1: whatever's out there did flip over a canoe--
speaker2: i am not staying on shore.
speaker1: it's too dangerous for--
speaker2: i didn't fly up here to roast marshmallows--
speaker1: you flew up here because your boss--
speaker2: i am going out on that boat and why are you picking on me, is this some kind of--

speaker1: i'm beginning to see why you were shipped off. 
speaker2: that was an awful thing to say to me.
speaker1: i'm sorry but you're...
speaker2: i do know crocodiles and i won't get in your way. i really do want to be a part of this.
speaker1: okay. we're up at six.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: 'night.

speaker1:  
speaker2: what the are you doing?!!
speaker1: what are you doing?!
speaker2: you're crawling around like a--
speaker1: i'm laying a spring trap!
speaker2: a spring trap!
speaker1: i keep telling you, they can come on land, i don't wanna wake up in the middle of the night--
speaker2: i coulda shot you, you--
speaker1: this could end up saving your life,--
speaker3: hey! what is going on?

speaker1: this is an official investigation, and this cuckoo bird is a civilian. i don't care how much money he's got, he's a total mental. 
speaker2: you hurt his feelings. i think you should go apologize.
speaker1: apologize?
speaker2: look. the thing about hector... he takes this crocodile business very... he thinks they're godly.
speaker3: he thinks they're what?
speaker2: in his defense, every primitive culture known to man deified them. he's a mythology professor, he thinks crocs are divine conduits.
speaker1: is this 'spose to make me take him more serious?
speaker2: it's to make you understand him, with understanding comes tolerance. too bad they don't put proverbs in twinkies, my load would be lighter.
speaker1: why does everybody insult my intelligence, i have intelligence, intelligent people eat twinkies.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker3: let's just all get some sleep.
speaker1: i'm an intelligent person.
speaker1: i shall kill him.

speaker1: again, i don't mean to be annoying with my questions. but if it is a crocodile which i don't think it is. and if they do charge these baby hatchling sounds... why exactly would you want to be underwater at the time? with you it makes sense. 
speaker2: they don't really attack underwater and--
speaker1: that "walt" guy got hit underwater--
speaker2: no crocodile has ever--
speaker3: you should take a flax pole.
speaker2: and what if i tranq him kelly? he drowns. you think about that?
speaker3: i'm just saying last resort.
speaker1: again. not to be disruptive. do we have a problem with it dying?
speaker2: crocodiles don't sever with their teeth, their molars are blunt.
speaker1: is this a trick?
speaker2: what i'm saying is if it's a crocodile that cut a man in half he would have to be over twenty feet which would make him well over a hundred years old, it would be unthinkable to destroy him.
speaker3: they respond pretty quick. i'll wait till you get down before i turn it on.
speaker4: good. see ya soon.
speaker3: good luck.
speaker2: two years married, divorced, used to be a lawyer, quit, i'm still waiting on his sperm count.
speaker3: what? oh as if i'm interested.
speaker2: as if. will you miss me?
speaker1: i brought a pork chop, maybe we could hang it around your neck for luck.
speaker2: no thank you, but maybe later you can chew the bark off my big fat log.
speaker1: was that like a homo-sexual remark?
speaker3: i asked you to be nice to him.

speaker1: he may be a kook but he's also been all over the world with them. he even swam in the grimetti with killer niles all around him, he never got nipped. 
speaker2: and that's why he thinks they're godly?
speaker1: he said he knew it when he looked into their eyes.
speaker2: you like jack?
speaker1: what? i don't even know the guy.
speaker2: hector thinks you like him.
speaker1: well hector's a giant cracker.
speaker2: you think jack's handsome?
speaker1: what is this?
speaker2: i'm just curious. i can never tell what women think is handsome. is he handsome?
speaker1: well. he's probably rugged handsome i guess. yeah.
speaker2: am i?

speaker1: hector, jack, we show you with about twelve minutes of oxygen left, and you're on the last tank. 
speaker2: that was a bust.
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: i don't know. it was like a tug. something tugged us.
speaker1: hey!
speaker3: something's got the anchor line!
speaker1: kelly!!

speaker1: cut the rope! 
speaker2: i'm trying!

speaker1: hurry up!! 
speaker1: hank!!
speaker2: look out!!
speaker3: are you alright?
speaker1: i think. my hair. where's hector?! where is he?
speaker4: we went in different directions. that water is thick, you can't see through it!

speaker1: nobody actually saw it. it happened sudden. 
speaker2: you okay? kelly?
speaker3: yeah. nobody saw anything?
speaker2: no. u.s. wildlife is on their way.
speaker3: that's probably good.
speaker2: police want to keep it quiet, if the press gets word... lake monster. they just want us to sit tight.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: um... y'know... yeah.
speaker1: a man died. you don't have to be so tough.
speaker2: i'm fine. i uh... i'm fine.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker3: was he a good man?
speaker4: yup.
speaker3: whenever somebody dies i consider it such a waste that i didn't know him better.
speaker4: his head was just... bitten off.
speaker3: i used to have this recurring nightmare that i was headless.
speaker3: i'd be on the ground looking up at my body, no head, walking around bumping into everything. and my parents wouldn't let me in the house 'cause they'd just bought all these new antique lamps and they were afraid i'd knock them over, made sense, and meanwhile, the neighborhood bullies would see my round little head on the ground looking like a ball, and they'd come rushing over to start up a game of soccer. i'd actually feel grateful just for being allowed into the contest, that's esteem for you, what are your thoughts?
speaker3: this is a setback.
speaker4: you don't want to cut me down.

speaker1: hard to believe there could be a monster under such peacefulness. 
speaker2: i thought i might track the shoreline tomorrow, look for prints.
speaker2: you know they say the brain confuses fear for passion.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: when you get scared, the brain releases a chemical, same chemical it releases when somebody's... in high school, the thing to do was to take the girl to a scary movie.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: i'm saying between the moonlight, a beautiful lake and a monster that bites heads off... you look good.
speaker1: gee, that was so poetic, jack. i'm all moist.
speaker2: forgive me for trying to be nice.
speaker1: nice? nice would be "you look pretty," nice is not some man- eating monster has tricked my brain into making you look good.
speaker2: i didn't say it like that.
speaker1: you did, you--
speaker2: i was trying to pay you a compliment, i was guising it as science 'cause i know you're comfortable in that arena.
speaker1: a man just died, you're hitting on me with science.
speaker2: just forget it.
speaker3: beg pardon? sorry to intrude but hank seems to have gotten himself stuck in a tree.

speaker1: i probably could've accomplished freeing him myself but he had a look of mayhem on his upside down face. 
speaker2: hank?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: are you okay?
speaker3: other than feeling slightly embarrassed, i'm perfectly fine. could you cut me down?
speaker1: promise you won't kill me, first.
speaker3: i have no interest in ever looking at you, hector. could you please cut me down?
speaker4: you cut, we'll hold him.
speaker3: thank you. i lied.

speaker1: okay. it's a crocodile. i'll admit it. 
speaker2: you're cut.
speaker2: he was an indo-pacific.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker2: scales were oval. it was an asian crocodile.
speaker1: asia? how... how could he get here?
speaker3: obviously some in hong kong flushed him down a toilet.
speaker2: he had to be thirty feet long.
speaker4: hank. the little cannon you brought, get it. guard the shoreline. otherwise, we're done. we made the i.d., our job is finished.
speaker1: alright, ms. paleontologist. i wanna know why that monster is here. you got a theory?
speaker2: why he's that big, i don't know. why he's here... the wetlands are being developed, crocodiles are moving. australia, fiji, the things have started to cross oceans.
speaker4: but why maine and why alone? crocs are social, why's this guy on the move by himself?
speaker3: maybe he doesn't play well with others.
speaker1: is everything a big joke to you?
speaker3: bite my bishop.
speaker1: i'm sick of him!
speaker2: hank!
speaker1: he said he knew karate!
speaker3: at school they'd always say "go" first.
speaker4: get your big gun and guard the shore. hector. go to your tent.
speaker3: he never said "go".
speaker4: get the gun.
speaker1: if i fall into a hole or get hoisted into a tree...
speaker4: like little children. you okay?
speaker2: yeah. i got some stuff for your cut.
speaker4: i couldn't believe... did you see the size of that thing's mouth?
speaker2: i wonder if he's some kind of mutant. that bear had to be surprised.
speaker4: let's get away from the shore.
speaker4: sorry.
speaker2: it's okay.

speaker1: told you i could make it. 
speaker1: there it is.
speaker2: last one in's a dead man.

speaker1: ow. 
speaker2: just gotta pull it a little tighter.
speaker1: who taught you be be a nurse?
speaker2: father's a surgeon. i can even stitch in a pinch, wouldn't be a bad idea here.
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker2: keep it dry. no swimming.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker1: you're having the best time of your life, aren't you?
speaker2: what? why... people have been killed, i hardly think i'm having a good time, why would... does it show?
speaker2: this is the first time i've actually... y'know been in the middle of anything. i've never really even gotten dirty before, with me showers have always been preventative.
speaker1: that's why you're here. to get in the middle of something?
speaker2: maybe. i've always read about what's happened. i've never... i know it sounds silly but, it's nice to be someplace while something is actually... y'know... happening.
speaker2: we should probably go to bed. get rest, get some rest. go to our separate beds, get some rest.
speaker1: thanks for the... bandaid.
speaker2: night.

speaker1: here i come. ready or not. 
speaker2: all or nothing, tom.
speaker3: from the jaws of defeat...
speaker2: ha ha.
speaker1: tommy? this isn't funny, tommy.
speaker2: tommy?
speaker4: c'mon, tommy.
speaker1: where is he?
speaker4: this isn't funny!!

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: it came from across the lake.

speaker1: you said nobody came in here! 
speaker2: obviously i was wrong!

speaker1: he was in his mouth?! 
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: you're okay?
speaker4: i think; just cuts.
speaker5: the thing just came up out of the water and kind of spit him at us.
speaker2: you should have signs posted, for sake!
speaker3: you're really okay?
speaker4: i might need a tetanus. keough and jack exchange a look of disbelief.

speaker1: just spit him back out. some shall live, some shall die, arbitrarily, sound like any higher power we know? 
speaker2: he didn't eat the kid cause he'd just swallowed a bear.
speaker1: sobek. half man, half croc, oldest god--
speaker2: i'm tired, hector. i know this because you're beginning to not bug me.
speaker1: that sounds good but underneath it's hurtful. nightcap?
speaker2: raincheck.
speaker3: well. goodnight.
speaker4: we seem to say goodnight a lot.
speaker3: we could not say it and... well, that thing is ambulatory if you want somebody in your tent to...
speaker4: night.

speaker1: get back from the shore. we know how fast he can leap out. 
speaker2: we shouldn't even really be doing this.
speaker1: they won't be here till at least noon. we got a few hours to kill.
speaker2: so does he.
speaker3: i'm gonna get ticks. i know it. they're drawn to me. i got a thing about ticks.
speaker1: ssssh!
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i heard something.
speaker3: 
speaker2: look.

speaker1: guard the water. 
speaker1: that's pretty big.

speaker1: it seems like we're getting lower. 
speaker2: it happens when i land.
speaker1: why are we landing?
speaker2: 'cause this is the cove he obviously lives in.
speaker1: so why are we landing? hector.

speaker1: thing we can lift it? 
speaker2: maybe. don't mush it.
speaker1: i'm not mushing it.
speaker2: you're mushing it a little around the--
speaker1: i'm not mushing it.

speaker1: they just stare, as kelly continues to scream. 
speaker2: okay. okay. okay.
speaker3: that is it!!
speaker2: really--
speaker3: no. i keep getting hit with heads!
speaker2: calm down.
speaker3: you calm down!
speaker2: calm down.
speaker3: i'm being very calm. i'm composed. this is the second time i've been hit with a severed head, i'm entitled to complain.
speaker4: is that uh...
speaker5: i can't recognize him from the back. it looks like him.
speaker6: it is burke.
speaker1: keough leans in for a closer look.
speaker5: that's him. what the...?
speaker5: now i'm gonna puke.
speaker2: you gotta be kidding.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: look.

speaker1: kelly raises her binoculars. so does jack. 
speaker2: what is she doing now? mother of
speaker3: what?
speaker2: look ten feet into the water.

speaker1: i haven't broken any laws. 
speaker2: oh, but you have, ma'am. you lied to us, that could be obstruction of justice. a man's been killed in part 'cause of your silence, i could make out a charge of reckless endangerment and i'm sure peta would be annoyed at how you treat your cows.
speaker1: the reason i lied is if i'd told you the truth, you'd just hunt it down and kill it which seems to be exactly what you're doing.
speaker3: how long have you been feeding this thing?
speaker1: about six years. he first appeared in may of nineteen-ninety-one. bernie was out fishing and it followed him home. so we threw him some scraps and well... he didn't seem to bother anybody. he became kind of like a pet who lived in the wild.
speaker4: he just appeared. you have no idea how he arrived in this lake?
speaker1: no. do you?
speaker2: ma'am. your husband, bernie. you didn't, by any chance, lead him to the lake blindfolded?
speaker1: no, i did not. the crocodile did kill him, though.
speaker3: a mistake.
speaker1: one of our horses got loose two years ago, went to the lake to drink and... well the crocodile started coming in, bernie went to intercede and... it was all a terrible misunderstanding. if i reported it, they would've sent people to kill it.
speaker2: ma'am, how could you not report this? he puts human life at risk and--
speaker1: nobody lives on this lake. it's really his lake now.

speaker1: c'mon hector. i know you're crazy but you can't-- 
speaker2: i need to see his habitat.
speaker1: please. i'll have with you, anything, but get out of the water.
speaker2: he's not gonna hurt me.

speaker1: murders and rapes in the cities. people bomb planes... can the police stop them? no. but feed one little cow to a crocodile... 
speaker2: you're to wait right here until the police show, you're under full house arrest.
speaker1: thank you, officer fuckmeat.
speaker3: hank! we got a problem with hector.
speaker2: what problem?
speaker3: he went swimming.

speaker1: ashen. 
speaker2: oh.... my.
speaker2: i suddenly feel a bit foolish. you're different from the others.
speaker2: holy spirit of sobek. holy ghost. holy

speaker1: hector!! 
speaker2: just turn the ignition, it's fuel injected.
speaker1: come on. she turns it again and the engine turns over.

speaker1: i know under the circumstances, biting off my head might seem viable. it would cheapen you. 
speaker2: i might get a shot.
speaker1: no. if you don't kill him instantly, i'm dead and you'll only kill him instantly if you get his brain, which is about the size of a cherry. and even if you were on target, a bullet might not penetrate his hide.

speaker1: move over!! 
speaker2: go!!
speaker2: go!!!
speaker1: i'm trying!!!

speaker1: this time, i'm gonna kick your ass. 
speaker2: bit my chopper.
speaker1: hey!!
speaker1: you wanna kill yourself, that it, you looking to commit some kind of divine suicide?
speaker3: alright, jack!
speaker1: no! you might think they're godly, you might get some spiritual lift backstrokin' with dragons but you just put a deputy at risk and--
speaker2: let's not overlook he didn't eat me, maybe--
speaker1: 'cause he just ate a cow, you stupid--
speaker3: jack!
speaker2: i'm a civilian! you don't have any authority--
speaker4: i can arrest you!!
speaker2: then do it!!
speaker4: you probably do want to be killed by it, that was you trying to meet your maker.
speaker2: so profound and fat.

speaker1: did you want to be killed by it? 
speaker2: you think i'm that nuts?
speaker1: hector. what you just did... there was at least some sort of a death wish going on.
speaker2: nothing's real.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: nothing's real. i'm rich, people are automatically my friends, sycophants ooze out like oil slicks and and and-- he's sounding erratic.
speaker2: with crocodiles... everything's even.
speaker1: i'm no psychiatrist. but i would think there have to be better places to look for autonomy, than--
speaker2: i'm an empty man, kelly, wealth has robbed me of the dream in life, i sit here broken, a hollow sack--
speaker1: oh,
speaker2: didn't even sound good?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: eh. it.
speaker1: can i tell them you won't go back in the water?
speaker2: yes. you may. but maybe... i don't know...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: could we have intercourse?

speaker1: just heard from wildlife and florida fish and game. they should be here by four. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: we might as well pack.
speaker2: good idea.
speaker3: they'll kill him.
speaker3: they're not going to be able to snag him in pitmans. tranq him in water, he drowns.
speaker2: they could try to tranq him on land.
speaker3: they won't. he's taken human life, the mission will be to put him down.
speaker4: gee, that would really disappoint me.
speaker3: forget about him being he's thirty feet long, he is a miracle of nature, who somehow made his way to maine. this is a grand beast. a grand dragon. an attempt should at least be made to capture him alive.
speaker1: well, you can try talking them into that, if--
speaker3: i have enough flaxedil with me to put him out. and i think i know a way to--
speaker1: forget it.
speaker3: look. i know i'm crazy, but when they come, they will kill it. they have to, politically, he's too dangerous, if something were to go wrong... the odds are he will be destroyed,--

speaker1: if he were neutralized when they got here... they might consider saving him. 
speaker2: and how would we neutralize him?
speaker1: we lure him on land and pump him with the drugs.
speaker3: no way.
speaker1: jack. we've all seen it. he's probably a hundred and fifty years old, he's bigger than an elephant.
speaker3: so maybe wildlife will try to save him, they're more equipped to--
speaker1: we both know what they'll do.
speaker3: even if we could tranq him-- how would we get him on land.
speaker4: other than to eat us?
speaker1: he follows anything that moves. you guys can be in the trucks with tranq guns. if he charges, drive off, plus hank you've got your hand- held cannon. we could do this with no safety risk. if it works, we save a beast that should be saved.
speaker3: and again. how would you get him on land?
speaker1: that's actually the easy part.

speaker1: i'll sue you. 
speaker2: go ahead.
speaker1: you can't take a cow by eminent domain.
speaker3: we won't let him get hurt, ma'am.
speaker1: you're all vicious little
speaker3: are we crazy?
speaker4: well...
speaker3: we've got a cow hanging from a helicopter.
speaker2: let's get back to camp.

speaker1: keep enough tension to hold him up, hector, we don't know if he can swim. 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: the more he thrashes, the better.
speaker2: you ready on shore?
speaker1: we're ready.

speaker1: if he tires, lift him out. 
speaker1: it can't work.
speaker2: he has been going after everything. it could work. but this is not a happy cow.
speaker1: he looks like a giant tea bag.

speaker1: he doesn't seem to be swimming. is he swimming? 
speaker2: he's floating. take it home.
speaker1: hector.
speaker3: hold on!

speaker1: i got something on the screen. 
speaker2: you do?
speaker3: there's a mass... moving toward the cow.
speaker1: he's coming.

speaker1: where? where? 
speaker2: thirty meters or so. moving slow, but straight toward elsie.
speaker1: can you confirm visually or just radar?
speaker2: radar, he's underwater. but he's definitely coming.
speaker1: okay. lead him in. okay, everybody up on the trucks. we aim for the stomach or side... there's little chance the darts will pierce his hide. everybody up on the trucks.

speaker1: if he gets close, you go up, hector, don't you endanger that cow. 
speaker2: she's worried about the cow now.
speaker3: he's following. here we come.
speaker4: depicting the same.

speaker1: nice and slow. let's get ready. 
speaker2: he's mooing.
speaker1: you wouldn't?
speaker3: they're coming right in.
speaker2: such a simple idea and it's working. what does that tell you?
speaker3: that it's about to go wrong.
speaker1: almost here, hector. don't forget to lift up the cow.
speaker4: thank you, jack.
speaker1: you shoot on my order. if he charges, i'll be yelling "go" which means drivers take off. and drive fast, they can move on land. you set?
speaker3: don't worry about me.

speaker1: little closer. three, two, one... 
speaker1: fire!!

speaker1: watch out!! 
speaker2: keep firing!
speaker3: motherfucker.

speaker1:  
speaker2: hector!!
speaker1: take him.
speaker3: i can't. i'll get hector!!
speaker1: where is he?!
speaker2: we gotta get to hector!!
speaker4: where is he?
speaker1: tranq guns down, rifles up!
speaker1: do not go in that water! back us in!!
speaker1: if you get a safe shot...
speaker3: i'll take it!
speaker1: hector. do not move.
speaker1: you see anything?
speaker5: nothing. maybe he swam out.
speaker1: go!! drive!!
speaker1: take him!!
speaker2: did you get him?
speaker3: i don't know. back the truck--
speaker6: no!!!
speaker1: hector, you see anything?

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: i just have this feeling everything's totally safe.
speaker1: i can't see him, but this is definitely blood. maybe you got him.
speaker2: where is he?!
speaker1: i don't know!
speaker2: hector!!
speaker2: alright. game over.
speaker2: should i?
speaker3: wait.

speaker1: there's no triumph. in their eyes... sadness. 
speaker2: i don't think we really want to wait for him to catch his breath.
speaker3: he's through fighting. look at him.
speaker2: i don't care. hank. end it.
speaker4: no. look. he's got nothing left.
speaker2: yeah and every time we think there's no more danger--
speaker4: i'm okay.
speaker3: you're not okay, your leg's a mess.
speaker2: get him onto shore.
speaker3: he heeds a tourniquet.
speaker3: you're gonna be okay.
speaker4: guess i finally got bit.
speaker3: yeah, you got bit. i'm gonna fix it.
speaker5: he's done. he's dying.
speaker2: don't count on it. we better take him out.

speaker1: a beat. 
speaker2: flax him under his tail. two hundred cc's. under the tail, that'll put him to sleep.
speaker3: thank
speaker4: we need to get it some medical help. and him too.
speaker5: we trapped him with our chopper.

speaker1: we're gonna airvac him to portland. 
speaker2: okay. that's where they're taking the croc, hector, they've got some big tank there.
speaker3: he's gonna live?
speaker2: yeah. thanks to you.
speaker3: and hank. i know you weren't really trying to hit him.
speaker4: i was aiming for you.
speaker3: thanks for the rescue.
speaker5: you take care.
speaker3: you talk to bickerman?
speaker5: she didn't tell us about the other croc 'cause she was afraid we'd blow it's head off.
speaker3: women's intuition. are there anymore?
speaker5: just those two.
speaker1: we gotta take him.
speaker5: okay.
speaker1: we got room for one.
speaker5: well... i got stuff to pack up and...
speaker4: i'll go.
speaker4: thanks for your help.
speaker5: you too.
speaker2: i'm sure this would offend you on principal but... could we keep in touch?
speaker4: i guess.
speaker2: well...
speaker5: you wanna ride in my truck?
speaker6: your truck is jammed. should we take some stuff out?
speaker2: no, no, i'll be a while anyway.
speaker5: you sure? i don't mind...
speaker2: no, i actually want to stay for a little while.
speaker2: i'll miss you most of all scarecrow.
speaker5: if i'm ever in new york...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker5: y'know, if we didn't live in separate worlds and...
speaker2: but we do. hey, we'll always have maine.
speaker5: it was... something meeting you.
speaker2: likewise.

speaker1: i thought i should say goodbye to the lake too. 
speaker2: different worlds, jack.
speaker1: yeah, i thought about that as i was driving... and... i haven't found somebody in my world. you found anyone in yours?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: so i was thinking... maybe if i met anybody in my world who was good for you and if you know somebody in new york good for me, we could fix each other up.
speaker2: you think?
speaker1: worth a try. we don't wanna be alone forever, do we?
speaker2: probably not.
speaker1: that was... y'know if the guy asks me can she kiss, now i'll be able to tell him if you can.
speaker2: good thinking.

