speaker1: it's probably been about seven minutes... 
speaker2: okay. okay. we've got pronouncement. 6:12. roughly eight minutes. number 36 this year for the great state of texas.
speaker3: david, don't start throwing things.
speaker4: i'm going home. let's do the press fax tomorrow.
speaker3: go. i'll do it. he nods to her, exits.

speaker1: he stares, then: 
speaker2: hey!
speaker2: yo! officer!
speaker2: your seatbelt.

speaker1: the high court also refused to stay friday's execution of former philosophy professor, david gale. 
speaker2: christ doin' karaoke.

speaker1: defense lawyers had hoped to argue that gale's former activism against capital punishment unduly prejudiced... 
speaker1: ...the texas judicial system. citing 'discriminating purpose' --
speaker1: ...clear political gain in executing its leading opponent of the death penalty...

speaker1: so, what's it gonna be? belyeu said to call after the decision... no, they said only bitsey. 
speaker2: ...further failed to consider that the victim was herself an abolitionist activist...
speaker1: it means only bitsey. bill, i don't get to make the rules, i'm a fat black woman.
speaker1: ...what we need is to put her on a plane to houston.
speaker3: gale's going down.
speaker1: why do you always get lordosis around legal? she's here.
speaker3: hi. what's lordosis?
speaker4: female ape's posture when preparing for intercourse. hello, bitsey.
speaker4: look, kids, setting aside the cost issue, though half-a-million dollars for three two hour interviews is not only illegal it's obscen--
speaker1: market value. guy's never talked.
speaker4: that aside, i, we are still uncomfortable with the arrangement.
speaker3: meaning?
speaker4: meaning you've just spent a very public seven days in jail for a very public contempt of court citation.
speaker3: protecting sources, even kiddie scumbags, is magazine policy.
speaker4: and i, we continue to appreciate your decision. we're just concerned. a slash murderer, five days before he's executed, demands a reporter known for protecting sexual deviants. a reporter who is also a very attractive woman -- bitsey and kruger moan in unison.
speaker1: this is disparate treatment.
speaker3: i could go if i were an ugly blabby guy?
speaker4: there's an agenda issue here which would be diffused with an older male...
speaker1: i hear lawyers gleefully saying the words bloom vs. news magazine inc.
speaker3: 'well, your honor, i started to notice that my assignments were evaluated on the basis of my sex.'
speaker1: you've gotta let her go now.
speaker4: that's not quite what i meant.
speaker1: he's gotta let you go.
speaker3: 'certain references were made -- '
speaker4: all right. all right. enough. the intern is with you at all times?
speaker1: yes. i, we are hanging up. 'bye.
speaker3: i'm not baby-sitting.

speaker1: his prints were all over the kitchen, including one on the bag. 
speaker2: half-a-thumb print.
speaker1: okay, half-a-thumb print.
speaker2: could have touched it before it was a murder weapon.
speaker1: do you fondle your friends' garbage bags?
speaker2: yeah, i get very touchy around household plastics. 'hello, everybody -- ooooh, tupperware.' chill. i'm just saying the bag could have been out on the counter or something.
speaker1: hey, zack?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: he did it.
speaker2: but the murder's way too clumsy. and this guy's a major intellectual. top of his yale class, a rhodes gig, tenured at 27, two books. he's an academic stud.
speaker1: and, empirically speaking, a psychotic.
speaker2: look at his wife, she's a regular grace kelly. old money svelte. father was ambassador to spain --
speaker1: the light's on again.
speaker3: is on.

speaker1: ignore it. it's a rental. 
speaker2: thanks, zack. do you smell anything?
speaker1: no. besides the guy's a flaming liberal.
speaker2: a person's politics has nothing to do with their propensity to commit crime. aren't we supposed to smell it if it's overheating?
speaker1: wrong, seventy-three percent of all serial killers vote republican.
speaker2: throw the cigarette out so we can smell.
speaker2: no! you'll stink up the car. throw it out!
speaker1: i'm not gonna pollute.
speaker2: zack!
speaker2: we better pull off. this is so irritating.
speaker1: how far to huntsville?
speaker2: look.
speaker1: 'news magazine reporters bitsy bloom and zack stemmons entered the rest area with car trouble...
speaker1: little did they know their troubles were just beginning.

speaker1: is it hot? 
speaker2: oww! yes. isn't it always?
speaker2: so what do i do?
speaker1: i don't know, something male.
speaker2: now what?
speaker1: company.
speaker2: i hope whoever it is never saw deliverance.
speaker3: you folks need some help?
speaker1: actually yes.

speaker1: how are you this morning? 
speaker2: little early, isn't it?
speaker3: the non-smoking section's over there.
speaker2: i meant the book.
speaker3: oh. bitsey opens the menu; he puts the book down.
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker3: 9:15. the waitress says the ellis unit is about fifteen minutes out of town, so we've got like five and half hours. i --
speaker2: never eat where the menus have pictures of the food.
speaker3: i was thinking we should drive to austin, check out the crime scene. could be some story stuff for us.
speaker2: first, this isn't a story. it's an interview. we come, i listen, you watch, we go home. second, there is no 'us' in the assignment.
speaker3: okay, what do i watch you do for the next five hours?
speaker2: drive around looking for decent restaurant.
speaker3: you know, your reputation as siberian- female-dog-person doesn't do you justice.
speaker2: my reputation got us invited here. i play by the rules. it's called objectivity.

speaker1: well, i don't rightly know one fraternity from another. but if we catch any those boys out here again, we're gonna arrest and prosecute... you do that, susan... bye now. 
speaker1: thank you, margie. correspondents bloom and stevens i presume.
speaker2: yes, hello.
speaker3: stemmons.
speaker1: stemmons. sorry, won't happen again. i'm duke grover, t.d.c. community relations.
speaker4: he's usually real good with names.
speaker1: and these days i always like to ask, now do you prefer miss, mrs. or ms.?
speaker2: bitsey.
speaker1: bitsey it is. margie, i'm stealin' your umbrella.
speaker4: okey dokey.

speaker1: bitsey, you ever been in a prison? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: on death row?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, we house 422 inmates here. average stay with us is nine years. some get commuted, move on, most get killed. it'll put you off your supper, but then it's supposed to.
speaker1: afternoon, earl. we've got three concerns here: safety, safety and safety. the visitation area is entirely secure -- we just ask you don't touch the glass. windex gets expensive.
speaker1: rules say seven days prior to execution inmates must be interviewed in a cage.

speaker1: this changes for no man. you're not carryin' a weapon are you? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: mr. stemmons, you packin'?
speaker3: no, sir.
speaker1: clarence. karla. new york guests for mr. gale.
speaker4: may i see your purse, ma'am.
speaker1: go on and walk through.
speaker1: now, should any kinda of unpleasantness occur in the visitation area, we ask that you stay put. come on through, mr. stemmons. and please follow the instructions of these fine correctional officers should they see fit to give you any.
speaker4: here you go, ma'am.
speaker1: anythin' you say can be overheard.

speaker1: here we are. 
speaker1: all yours, mr. belyeu. you folks have safe visit now.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: miss bloom?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: did that p.r. man validate your parkin'?
speaker2: he said the gift shop could do it.
speaker3: she's a smart one.
speaker3: benjamin belyeu, mr. gale's attorney.
speaker2: this is zack.
speaker3: pleasure.
speaker4: sit down, gale.
speaker5: hello.
speaker2: hello.
speaker6: hi.
speaker3: now, why can't they turn that thing down?
speaker5: my lawyer respectfully suggests you adjust the speaker-system volume.
speaker5: they're practicing being cruel and unusual.
speaker3: mrs. bloom, i'm sure you're a bitin' at the bit.
speaker3: now, it is our understanding that you are to have three two-hour sessions. today, tomorrow and thursday, all at three in the p.m. i'm sorry we can't afford you more time, but contrary to popular rumor we have not yet begun to fight. furthermore, it's our understanding that you will do this with no recording equipment of any kind. you have my gregg book?
speaker5: i need it for billy's appeal.
speaker3: my client's got a ten pound bass on the line and he's worried about baitin' his neighbor's hook. now, i have some papers for which i need your jo ann hancock. come by my austin office at your earliest convenience. thursday mornin', say. bitsey's confused. belyeu just smiles at her, then looks up at the microphone. she understands, nods.
speaker3: fine, till thursday then.
speaker3: good luck, miss bloom. i'll come by later. we can play a game of hangman, take up smokin'.
speaker3: bye, ya' all.
speaker2: so...
speaker5: sorry. have a seat.
speaker2: he's a character.
speaker5: yeah, known benny most my life. met the summer after 4th grade, spent the day burning ants with his dad's magnifying glass. we called it playing 'execution.'
speaker5: since i grew up in foster homes, he's become the only family i have.
speaker2: where's your ex-wife?
speaker5: we agreed minimal contact would be easier. please don't mention her, or my son.
speaker2: all right. anything else, just clearly say, 'off the record.' i'll take it to my grave. but then you know that about me. otherwise i wouldn't be here.
speaker2: is this recording equipment?
speaker5: how should we start?
speaker2: i'd say you're a man with a story to tell, mr. gale. you chose the magazine, the format. you chose me.
speaker2: go.

speaker1: think. what do you fantasize about? world peace? thought so. money-fame-ferrari? a pulitzer? nobel? m.t.v. music award? a genius hunk -- ostensibly bad but secretly simmering with noble passions, and willing to sleep on the wet spot? 
speaker2: i'll take two!
speaker1: a victoria's secret model -- just slumming between law school and running her family's vastly endowed foundation for tragically sad-eyed children?
speaker1: okay, good, you see lucan's point. fantasies must be unrealistic. the minute you get something, you don't, you can't, want it anymore. to exist, desire needs absent objects. so desire supports itself with crazy fantasies...
speaker3: sorry.
speaker1: this is what pascal means when he says the only time we're truly happy is when day-dreaming about future happiness.
speaker1: or why we say, 'the hunt is sweeter than the kill' or 'be careful what you wish for.'
speaker1: not because you'll get it, but because you're doomed not to want it if you do. think about it next time you're at a wedding.

speaker1: sorry about being late. there was, you know, a thing. 
speaker2: there usually is, berlin.
speaker1: look, i know i'm not doing well.
speaker1: and to torture a cliche, i'd do anything to pass.
speaker1: anything, professor gale.
speaker2: anything, huh?
speaker1: anything.
speaker2: anything?
speaker1: any thing.
speaker2: tell you what, i'll give you good grade, a really good grade, if you will... ...study.

speaker1: david! 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: the t.a. finished transcribing the governor's radio and tv comments. listen: 'i hate killing, that's why i'm willing to kill to stop it.' the woman breathes in soundbites.
speaker2: 'yes, virginia, the people of this state have overwhelmingly affirmed the reality of santa.'
speaker1: you might can use some of her pre- centrist stuff.
speaker2: tell me again why you aren't doing the debate.
speaker1: telegenics. you have a cuter
speaker2: i hadn't noticed.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: that's not what i meant.

speaker1: she's gonna do the whole mother thing. she empathizes with you completely, but experience has given her the courage to take the tougher road, ta- da, ta-da. keep it rational. and flirt politely. 
speaker2: 'governor, you bat a lovely lash for a woman who executed thirty eight last year.' they've come to a sidewalk junction, stop.
speaker1: and watch your ego. don't come across as one of those i-hate-authority- because-nobody-in-charge-reads-the- new yorker types.
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: yeah, don't fall into one of your brooding silences. oh, i'm getting new federal stats from amnesty tonight.
speaker2: i'm going to greer's party. fax them to sharon's number at the house.
speaker1: if you have a hang-over tomorrow --
speaker2: apropos playing mother.
speaker1: ten o'clock! bright-eyed and bushy tailed!

speaker1: did you mark your calendar? 
speaker2: yep.

speaker1: only... three more spain days. 
speaker2: only three. that's great, huh?
speaker2: what's he doing in here?
speaker1: mommy said i could. just till she gets back. that's a special-duper monster laser knife.
speaker2: where's your laser gun?
speaker1: here.
speaker1: tussshh, tusssshh, tussshh. i never shoot them in the eyes, daddy.
speaker2: that's 'cause you're a special-duper- super-quadruper boy. who's now going to sleep.
speaker2: who loves you?
speaker2: ooooh. good night, son.
speaker1: do cloud dog.
speaker2: good night, cloud dog.

speaker1: back before midnight. 
speaker2: it's cool, mr. gale. don't do anything i wouldn't.
speaker1: rest assured.

speaker1: the guy's the immanuel kant of the n.f.l. consistent, accurate, effective, and boring, boring, boring. 
speaker2: meinen herren.
speaker3: hello, david.
speaker4: professor gale. where's your better half?
speaker2: spain.
speaker4: again? well, i was just off for air.
speaker2: looks like sharon's affair is an open secret.
speaker3: hermeneutical bias: the only fun truths are the ones someone's trying to hide. have a seat.
speaker3: listen, berlin's here -- and livid. probations suspended her. she received the letter today, took the opportunity to throw a fit in my office. you should --
speaker5: talking about me?
speaker2: yep.
speaker5: he tell you i said when you were circumcised they threw away the wrong part.
speaker2: he mentioned it.
speaker2: it's called schmuck.
speaker5: what?
speaker2: the part of the foreskin that gets thrown away. i think it's called schmuck.
speaker5: aren't we so clever.
speaker3: i suppose i should get us another. david?
speaker2: black bush.
speaker5: you were a jerk this afternoon.
speaker2: for what it's worth, i didn't know about the suspension.
speaker5: is that supposed to be an apology?
speaker2: more like a conciliation.

speaker1: all right. as the poets have mournfully sung, death takes the innocent young, the screamingly funny, the rolling in money, and those who are very well hung. 
speaker2: there once was a lesbian from canjuom, who took a young man to her room, and they argued all night, as to who had the right, to do what, how, and to whom.
speaker3: one more. c'mon, one more.
speaker2: enough. that's enough.
speaker1: do you bow to the queen?
speaker4: the crowd is chanting: "ross! ross! ross!"

speaker1: i'm done. 
speaker2: i'm not a student anymore.
speaker1: don't think i want to know what that means.
speaker2: there once was woman named berlin, who liked a bit now and again. not now and again, but now! and again! and again! and again! and again!
speaker2: cute, huh?
speaker1: cute.
speaker2: i have a secret. but i have to come over there to tell you.
speaker2: here i come.
speaker2: i wasn't after the grade.
speaker1: berlin, this, this is not...
speaker2: ssshhhh.
speaker2: we'll just talk, analyze, contemplate. or... you can put your mouth on my body.
speaker2: don't reject me. please.

speaker1: rip them. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: rip them off.

speaker1: no. from behind. 
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: do it hard.

speaker1: harder. 
speaker1: harder.
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: bite me. bite my shoulder.

speaker1: okay, let's say we find an innocent on death row. wouldn't matter. corrections would let him go. governor harding would go on tv, say, 'thanks to the good people at deathwatch, the system works.' yeah, if they executed an innocent, and we had absolute, undeniable, in-your-face proof, we could demand abolition. just like happened in england. are you okay? 
speaker2: sorry. yeah.
speaker1: but it hasn't happened, not since '76. and won't happen.
speaker1: dead men can't make a case.
speaker2: and 'almost martyrs' don't count.
speaker1: just keep it rational. the death penalty is expensive and ineffective. no one wants to see a murderer as a victim.
speaker2: um-hum.
speaker1: and stop that.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: active listening. i hate active listeners. makes me feel like i'm with a dale carnegie grad who cares more about appearing to listen than actually listening. did you bring the amnesty fax?
speaker2: i can listen and appear to listen at the same time. yeah, no. damn, i left it home.
speaker1: i have a copy.
speaker1: you want to tell me what's up.
speaker2: nothing. everything. something profoundly stupid happened last night.
speaker1: i hope you used a condom.
speaker1: christ, david. was she one of yours?
speaker2: it was berlin.
speaker1: oh, that's great, great. i can hear the grapevine now. they suspended her so gale could her with a clear conscience.
speaker1: a power differential equals coercion. great. you are so weak.
speaker2: constance, you're not my wife. thank
speaker1: i know you can tell yourself it's a position i aspire to, but believe me, i would rather...
speaker2: i didn't mean --
speaker1: let's go.
speaker2: are you okay?
speaker1: yes, let's just go.

speaker1: welcome back to 'batter's box.' tonight we continue our very special four-part series with the governor hardin. arguing capital punishment with her is deathwatch coordinator, professor david gale. governor, you're up. 
speaker2: alan, let me say somethin' i always say.
speaker2: and i'm gonna keep on sayin.' and that is i hate killin.' that's why my administration is willing to kill to stop it.
speaker3: so you don't subscribe to the idea that 'a good state is one that protects its most despised members'?
speaker2: it's a nice liberal idea, but like most nice liberal ideas, naive.
speaker3: it's a quote from you, governor, from your first state attorney campaign.
speaker2: you've got me, professor. but let me, in my defense, give you a quote. winston churchill: 'if you're not a liberal at twenty, you've got no heart, if you're still a liberal at thirty, you've got no brain.'
speaker3: so, basically you feel, to choose another quote, 'society must be cleansed of elements which represent its own death.' the governor makes an animated thinking face.
speaker2: well, yes. i would have to agree. did i say that, too?
speaker3: no, ma'am. that was hitler.
speaker3: governor, can't we examine the possibility that capital punishment isn't working. that murderers aren't deterred by the law because they have about as much forethought as lemmings. that it's expensive, inequably administered, that...
speaker3: ...that we may even be killing innocents.
speaker2: all righty, mr. gale, i'll play your game. name one. name one innocent man texas has put to death in my tenure. one.
speaker2: name one in the last twenty years. in any state in this country.
speaker1: well, mr. gale?
speaker3: dead men can't make a case.
speaker2: well, as my daddy used to say: if you can't find a problem, there probably isn't one.

speaker1: well, you certainly had me on that hitler quote. 
speaker2: thank you, governor.
speaker1: these debates are awfully good for the state, don't you think?
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: well, i've got to buzz.
speaker1: you folks keep up the good work. we need that opposition.

speaker1: your exact words were, 'just tell me when my ego gets in the way of the work.' now i'm telling you: your ego's in the way of work. 
speaker2: look, i wanted you to do this anyway.
speaker1: you put up precisely two seconds of protest at the thought of a televised debate.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: it means deathwatch suffers because you're so anxious to finger authority, to publicly prove that david gale is so much smarter than the powers that be. learn to work without an audience. try squeezing money from the donor list. have you ever licked one single mail-out envelope?
speaker3: mr. gale?
speaker2: look, guys, there's not much more to say --
speaker3: rameriz, austin police. this is officer haslinger.
speaker2: what, arguing with the governor is a crime?
speaker4: no, sir, is.
speaker5: camera quickly cranes up and rotates.

speaker1: gale, time's up. 
speaker2: berlin had my bite marks, bruises, ripped clothing. my skin was beneath her nails. it didn't look like anything but rape. two days later she called the d.a., said she wouldn't testify, too drunk to be sure, etc. on the plane home, sharon read about her husband's case being dropped.
speaker3: why'd she do it?
speaker2: finger authority, show she was smarter than the powers that be.
speaker3: do you know where i can find her?
speaker2: first year in here i received a card postmarked san francisco. it wasn't signed, but i suspect it was from her -- the front had the text 'sex is power.'
speaker3: anything written on it?
speaker2: yeah. it said, 'i'm sorrier than you can know.' see you tomorrow, ms. bloom.

speaker1: try phone records, a net search. 
speaker2: better than watching you work.
speaker2: you think he's telling the truth?
speaker1: don't ask me that. i don't know. there is no truth, only perspectives.
speaker2: can't say that. if you say 'there is no truth,' you're claiming it's true that there is no truth -- it's a logical contradiction.
speaker1: working on our philosophy merit badge, zack?
speaker2: i, on the other hand, think gale's telling the truth.
speaker1: this you know telepathically?
speaker2: it's just my perspective.

speaker1: thirty-three o what? 
speaker2: seven. 'check out the crime scene in austin.' you made it sound so close. two and half hours and that lig --
speaker1: bitsey.

speaker1: hi. i'm bitsey bloom and this is zack stemmons. we -- 
speaker2: you want the tour?
speaker1: uh, yes.
speaker2: there's a twenty-dollar mandatory donation, apiece. but you get a re- enactment photo packet. it's got five pictures.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: i gotta collect first.
speaker1: oh, sure.

speaker1: you gotta sign the book. doesn't have to be your real name, though. 
speaker1: first page says you're here to do research on violent crime. the state requires it for nonprofit
speaker1: take a re-enactment photo packet.
speaker1: if you guys could share one, it would be really cool. the wipes where i do prints kinda jerk my chain.
speaker1: that's me. my boyfriend took it. we also did a video. it's fifty bucks 'cause you can see my there's a version without tits, that's thirty- five.
speaker2: do many people take the tour?
speaker1: not so much anymore. we thought this would be like a busy week -- gale gettin' the prune juice and all. prune juice is what death row dudes call the poison, 'cause it gives you the shits. most jerks just take a photo from the street. they shot a 'real crimes' episode here, but the owner didn't give us
speaker3: you don't mind living here?
speaker1: i'm cool with ghouls. beats livin' with my parents. it starts over here.
speaker1: she let him crash here sometimes. he was like constantly wasted. drank black label religiously.
speaker1: this is where the tripod was. my boyfriend borrowed the one we usually show folks. they never found a camera, photos, or videos or anything. gale must have buried them. these serial killer dudes take photos to whack off to later.
speaker3: he's not exactly a serial killer.
speaker1: whatever.
speaker1: she was like totally naked right here. the meter man saw her through the door. gale handcuffed her, taped her mouth, then taped a bag over her head so she couldn't breathe. my boyfriend says that's probably when he her. your muscles tense up when you die -- the is better. he used those housewife gloves so he wouldn't leave prints. they found sticky stuff from the tape on them.
speaker1: we ask folks not to touch the exhibit.
speaker3: right.
speaker1: the totally sick part was where they found the key --
speaker2: we know, you can save that.
speaker3: what? where was it?
speaker1: it was in her stomach, dude. he made her swallow it before he bagged her.
speaker1: that's pretty much the highlight.

speaker1: it was in the case file. 
speaker2: in her stomach? that's colder than wisconsin.
speaker1: zack, open your vanity.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the vanity mirror, pull it down.
speaker1: see that truck behind us?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: isn't that the cowboy from the rest area?
speaker2: same truck.
speaker1: weird coincidence, huh?
speaker2: coincidences are always weird, that's why they're coincidences.

speaker1: off-the-record? 
speaker2: alright, we're off.
speaker1: constance was murdered with what's called the securitat method. you're hand-cuffed, forced to swallow the key, taped at the mouth, a bag's sealed over your head and you're left to suffocate. the securitat did this to romanians who wouldn't inform or confess. sometimes the bag was ripped off at the last second, you got a second chance. if not, you die knowing the 'key' to your freedom was inside you the whole time. a cheap-but-effective metonym. problem is i mentioned the method in an early article. the prosecution never knew.
speaker2: you're telling me someone's framing you?
speaker1: it's more than that.
speaker1: there was a tripod.
speaker2: right, facing her body. are we on?
speaker1: not a single print was found on it. someone brought it, wiped it, left it. why? it's as if they wanted me to know that somewhere there's a record of what really happened that afternoon. as if they wanted me to die knowing the key to my freedom was... out there.
speaker2: maybe you're being paranoid?
speaker1: ms. bloom. i'm an anti-death row activist on death row. doesn't that strike you as odd?
speaker2: any ideas who 'they' are?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: but i have someone on it, someone i'm hoping will one day find an answer.
speaker2: belyeu's hired a detective?
speaker1: a journalist.
speaker1: 'she's a smart one.'

speaker1: wear me like a fur, daddy! wear me like a fur! 
speaker2: who's your hero?
speaker2: call me when you get to boston?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: i wish you --
speaker3: don't.
speaker3: chase, get in, sweetie.
speaker1: see ya later, alli-gator.
speaker2: after awhile, crocodile.
speaker1: take it easy, japa-ne-se.
speaker2: okey-dokey, artichokey.
speaker3: scoot.
speaker3: i sent you an e-mail.
speaker2: okay?
speaker3: just read it.
speaker3: come on, chase.

speaker1: you could at least hide the bottle. 
speaker2: well?
speaker1: officially, you're on sabbatical. unofficially, they want you to look for another position. it was four to two.
speaker2: how did ross vote?
speaker1: you're not supp... against you.
speaker2: and you?
speaker1: against my politics.

speaker1: so, i wanted to get your feedback on the idea. the ivy leaguer vigorously butters his bread. 
speaker2: look, professor gale, i could sit here, as i'm sure others have, and plead departmental cutbacks. claim you need more publications, or i need a minority, whatever. all bull- geschichte. your record's brilliant. you're an original voice worth -- in the scarcity-defines-value capitalist system under which we toil -- your weight in gold. hell, it's not even the alcohol. it'd be nice to have faculty whose crutch wasn't prozac. but, to speak plainly, if i hire you, in the eyes of the regents, alumni and every freshman with an ear for gossip, i'd be hiring a rapist.
speaker2: you're not politically correct, dr. gale. welcome to the club.

speaker1: we aren't home. please, tell us a message. 
speaker2: at the beep.
speaker1: at the peep.

speaker1: what exactly attracts you to the bond market? 
speaker1: mr. gale? he looks at her. she forces a strained smile.

speaker1: because divorce proceedings do not require her presence in the country. for a custody hearin', yeah, she'll have to return. 
speaker1: but without successful completion of an alcohol treatment program, you'll be lucky to get the odd thanksgivin'.
speaker2: so my chances of getting partial custody aren't good?
speaker1: roughly the same as you sinkin' that from here.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: she hugs him as they laugh on the porch.

speaker1: you look good. 
speaker2: i feel... washed.
speaker1: i need you. deathwatch needs you, now more than ever.
speaker2: nothing like i need you, both. you're all i have.
speaker1: look.
speaker1: jo ann johnson's been re-scheduled.
speaker3: of a young black women -- pleasant, timid.

speaker1: i've got a call with hawkins tonight, and if national will commit emergency funds... 
speaker2: jo ann will be commuted and you'll only prove the system works.
speaker1: but i'll save a life.
speaker2: where'd you get those?
speaker1: spring cleaning.

speaker1: she went up at 18, she's 26 now. 
speaker2: hey! she ever not make you work when you come by?
speaker3: mornin', david.
speaker2: what's her story?
speaker1: i really want us to get behind this one. she's articul --
speaker2: constance, who did she kill?
speaker1: a cop.
speaker2: she admit to it?
speaker2: you're a crazy woman. not your medium grade thinks-she's-teddy roosevelt's- bathrobe, but stark-raving-loose- screws-in-the-belfry insane.
speaker1: you're mixing metaphors.
speaker2: a real danger to flora and fauna.
speaker1: are we gonna do this?
speaker2: and how.
speaker2: you're burning up.

speaker1: howdy, mr. gale. 
speaker2: hello, folks.
speaker3: hello. my, this is service. thank you.
speaker2: gladly.
speaker2: latte on your left, partner.

speaker1: ...and see what kind of resources the religious groups can deliver. 
speaker2: i'm sure we can get some pulpit time, maybe cable.
speaker1: cable's good. listen, i need to run. for now, i agree the first press release should focus on the woman's youth.
speaker1: i'll have the washington people look into counsel competency, though i'm almost sure she's exhausted this issue on appeal.
speaker2: john, david's going to --
speaker1: oh, i almost forgot. he's not around, is he?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good, keep it that way. his relationship to deathwatch is over, terminated. last thing we need is this thing coming back to bite our butts.
speaker1: these guys don't stay on the wagon for very long.
speaker1: i'm serious, constance. ban him from the premises. i realize you two...
speaker3: david's volvo pulls out of the parking lot.

speaker1: at his ear, chase's message begins. 
speaker2: he speaks into the phone after the beep.
speaker3: sharon, pick up. for once just pick up the phone! if you keep him in spain, i'll... i'm begging you. he's my son! please! please.... please.

speaker1: we're seeking refuse, refuge, uge. 
speaker2: come on, come inside.
speaker1: we fell off our wagon.

speaker1: know why saint jude is the patron saint of lost causes? 'cause his real name was judas. there were two judases, judai, the saint guy and the bad judas who ratted on and tried to kiss him. medievalers wouldn't pray to good judas for fear of getting bad judas on the line by mistake. ergo, they only gave him business when really desperate. that's why. then they changed his name. 
speaker1: constance?
speaker1: your mail's blowing.

speaker1: how we doing? 
speaker2: fine. how's constance?
speaker1: sleeping.
speaker1: mr. gale, a leukemia patient's condition is highly susceptible to external stress. while we don't want to totally restrict constance's life --
speaker2: what?
speaker1: constance's illness requires a degree of regularity.
speaker2: constance has leukemia?
speaker1: acute. she was diagnosed last fall.
speaker1: have i created a problem?
speaker2: no, no.
speaker3: gale, time's up.

speaker1: when i asked why she hadn't told me, she muttered, 'too busy.' i guess she figured as long as death was chasing her, she could help others escape. 
speaker1: constance left the world better than she found it. it's a small, difficult thing.

speaker1:  
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: for sake, zack.
speaker1: you're not a happy camper.
speaker2: it's not a happy place.
speaker1: talked to the austin prosecutor. belyeu's a yokel. prosecutor says he up the penalty phase, says gale probably would have gotten life on mitigating factors. gale stuck with him, though, all through appeals, despite major pro bono offers.
speaker2: what else?
speaker1: notta on berlin, we pick up the money in houston tonight, overheat light came on twice, and you're about to get a surprise.
speaker2: i don't want a surprise.
speaker1: too late.

speaker1: this is mostly an oklahoma caravan. i got stuck behind them on the way in. 
speaker1: execution's not for another 36 hours. it's gonna be a zoo. there's the p.r. guy.
speaker2: what a life, waiting around for someone to die.
speaker1: look.
speaker2: this is a little too coincidental.
speaker1: 'cause i couldn't see the license plate.
speaker2: forget it. what time is it?
speaker1: 6:05. why don't you have a watch?
speaker2: it's a long story.

speaker1: what!? 
speaker2: it's open.
speaker1: so? maybe the maid forgot.
speaker2: look!

speaker1: i'll check the bathroom. 
speaker2: zack checks behind the shower curtain.
speaker1: clear in here! don't touch it!

speaker1: bitsey, there could have been prints. 
speaker2: look.

speaker1: she says no one asked for you. and all the room keys are different. 
speaker1: just she and her husband have masters.
speaker2: what did you tell her?
speaker1: that you have a jealous boyfriend.
speaker2: thanks. how about the v.c.r.?
speaker1: she didn't ask. i think she assumed it had something to do with why he was jealous. i still say we should do this in my room -- this one's a crime scene.
speaker2: whoever got in here -- without a key in broad daylight -- was probably smart enough not to leave prints. i have the remote.
speaker1: maybe they could look for d.n.a. try three.
speaker2: they don't look for d.n.a. when someone breaks in to deliver, zack. here.
speaker1: you sure you want to see what's on here?
speaker2: no. start it.
speaker2: i hope this isn't what i think it is.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: is it her?
speaker1: turn it up.

speaker1: belyeu says to bring the tape first thing tomorrow. also said you were right about not calling the police. 
speaker1: are you gonna be okay?

speaker1: let's say gale's right. some sick- fuck-agatha christie-wannabe set him up, arranged like the perfect murder. why send a magazine journalist proof a few hours before he's won? doesn't make sense. 
speaker2: no, it's perfect. he knows news magazine won't give the scoop to the dailies or nightly news, not after having paid for it. probably guessed we wouldn't call the cops. and, most importantly, knows i'll tell gale tomorrow.
speaker1: why does he give a
speaker2: zack, what if harraway's murder was just a means to getting gale. i mean sending him through hell, a sick cat and mouse game. you kill the one person he has left. make sure he sits six years on death row for the murder -- a place he's made a public career of loathing. and then just let him die, die knowing everyone will remember him with disgust. you destroy his loved ones, his life's work, his memory -- and you make him watch.
speaker1: that's a lot of hate. you're talking beyond sadism.
speaker1: then why release it?
speaker2: if the mouse dies the game's over. maybe the cat's enjoying himself. or...
speaker1: or?
speaker2: imagine walking to the chamber knowing this exists.
speaker1: the 'cat' is a psychopath.
speaker2: yeah, but smart.

speaker1: why do they call it check-book journalism if we always pay cash? 
speaker2: the over-heat light is on.

speaker1: woa, woa. at six o'clock! 
speaker2: is it the truck?

speaker1: yep, and doing a lousy job of hiding. 
speaker1: he must think we're idiots. you think he's our fucked-up feline?
speaker2: is he gaining?
speaker1: no. just sitting back there.
speaker2: can you see the license?
speaker1: too much mist. what the does this guy want?

speaker1: fine. oh, and bring in miss bloom's original when that's done. don't blame you for not watching that twice. 
speaker2: i couldn't sleep afterwards.
speaker1: i understand. i generally tell folks i'm no more afraid of the grim reaper than i am of a presbyterian on mother's day. but watching your tape... well. i had to keep tellin' myself 'that's not constance' just to get through. unfortunately, others may argue the same.
speaker2: yeah, but it's her kitchen, in her house.
speaker1: currently home to weirdos incorporated. arguably, that tape could have been made by anybody with twenty dollars and a tolerance for vulgarity.
speaker2: but it will at least get us a postponement?
speaker1: i hope so, miss bloom, i certainly hope so. but you've got to remember that there's a machine a runnin'. and come six o'clock tomorrow mornin' that machine wants to be fed.
speaker3: all here, mr. belyeu.
speaker1: thank you, joshua. to add to our troubles, your own credibility may come into question.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: you've been fraternizin' with the condemned. in the court's eyes, he's the most likely candidate to have put you onto the tape. he's a persuasive man, you're a out-of-state woman -- it don't look good on paper.
speaker2: but someone put it in my hotel room.
speaker1: a fact for which we have no evidence.
speaker1: thank you, bobbi.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: well, let's not start readin' kafka just yet. could we find a sympathetic judge. i'll file within the hour. you headin' back over to ellis?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: fine. i'll call over at the motel later and give you an update.

speaker1: did you see the cowboy go in? 
speaker2: he went in belyeu's building?
speaker1: into his office. just saw him.
speaker2: 
speaker1: follow him. find out who he is, where he lives -- what he --
speaker2: how are you gonna get to ellis?
speaker1: a taxi.

speaker1: okay, okay. calm down. you have to sit. 
speaker2: visitors need to stay seated.
speaker1: sorry. look at me. he's not your man. his name is dusty wright, deathwatch director before constance. he's a 'bullhorner,' a zealot who thinks a good demonstration has to end in a riot and arrests. 'almost martyrs don't mean shit.' they fired him. constance kept him in the organization, and he loved her for it. the man adored her.
speaker3: then why was he following us? why was he at belyeu and crane?
speaker1: he and benny used to work a.c.l.u. cases together, until dusty punched a clansman in a federal court. benny sometimes still gives him work, probably had him follow you.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: to make sure you honored your agreement, one for which there's no contract.
speaker3: he would've said something.
speaker1: he's a lawyer, ms. bloom.
speaker3: maybe dusty was jealous because you were seeing constance.
speaker1: i wasn't 'seeing' constance.
speaker3: she died... she had your sperm --
speaker1: it's more complicated than that.
speaker4: rotates.

speaker1: remember those kubler-ross stages, the ones the dying go through? 
speaker2: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. where are you?
speaker1: denial.
speaker2: denial's my personal favorite.
speaker1: the whole idea of there being a process makes me tired. i'm not up to the job of dying person. marveling at blades of grass. lecturing strangers to relish every moment.
speaker2: mending bridges.
speaker1: mending bridges. confessing regrets. uuuggh.
speaker2: no regrets?
speaker1: nope.
speaker1: take that back. i wish i had a child.
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: i'm sorry, david.
speaker1: i guess i just wish i would have risked more.
speaker1: uumm, also not enough sex. should have had more sex.
speaker2: how much... how many lovers have you had?
speaker1: including college?
speaker2: including college.
speaker2: well, it's... not every... yeah, you should have had more sex.
speaker1: you work hard not to be seen as a object. before long, you're not seen at all.
speaker2: i see you.
speaker2: want to make it five? finish the hand?
speaker1: a pity lay. no thanks.
speaker2: it wouldn't be pity.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: don't worry.
speaker2: it's good.
speaker2: talk to me. let me hear your voice.
speaker2: hold me tight.
speaker1: i'm here.
speaker2: tight... i'm scared.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: don't stop. stay in me. please stay in me.
speaker1: shhh. i'm staying.
speaker2: i need to feel you inside.
speaker1: it's okay. i'm inside. i'm not pulling out.
speaker2: i'm so tired.
speaker1: i know, i know.
speaker2: tired of being afraid.
speaker1: shhh.
speaker2: help me.
speaker1: i'm here. it's okay.
speaker2: help me. please. make it stop.
speaker1: shhh. i'm here. i'm here.

speaker1: how do you feel about last night? 
speaker2: rescued. you?
speaker1: like i have a reason to get out of bed. ironic, huh?

speaker1: let's say they move back from spain, that i somehow got my one weekend a month. would it matter? by high school, i'd be his weak spot, the focus of locker room jabs, embarrassed pride. in college there'd be late- night angst: 'what if i turn out like the old man?' holidays would be forced smiles and unscheduled exits. i mean, what girl comes home with you if there's talk that pops is a rapist? 
speaker1: i can't stand the idea of being his model of failure. without him, i drink. to cover the hole. to prove to myself he's better off without me.

speaker1: rotating camera. the policeman holds the light. 
speaker1: gale, time's up.

speaker1: but there has to be someone. someone with a motive, who knew you both. someone who visited that morning. 
speaker2: if i could answer... we wouldn't be having this conversation. it's why i need you, why i chose you. you have my story, now... 'go.'
speaker1: there's not enough time.
speaker2: you'll find time.
speaker1: you know that's not what i meant. you should have done this earlier.
speaker2: you're not here to save me. you're here to save my son's memory of his father -- that's all i want.
speaker1: you're going to let them kill you.
speaker2: we live to stop death. eating, inventing, loving, praying, fighting, killing -- choose a verb. all to stall this evil, job's 'king of terrors.' but what do we really know about it? nobody comes back. there's a point, when your mind out-lives its obsessions, when your habits survive your dreams, when your losses... you wonder, maybe death is a gift. all i know is that by this time tomorrow, i'll be better off. what i don't know is why. goodbye, bitsey.
speaker1: goodbye, david.
speaker3: car's on its way. wanna wait in here?
speaker1: no thanks.

speaker1: i got it. i got it. you could have corporate sponsors. volkswagen for bundy, home depot for gacy. and 'the david gale execution, brought to you by...' 
speaker2: '...hefty.' they find this hilarious. bitsey looks away.
speaker3: what time is it?
speaker4: nine hours, 52 minutes.

speaker1: belyeu! 
speaker1: did you have dusty wright follow us?
speaker2: i employ mr. wright from time to time.
speaker1: you could have said something.
speaker2: that would have defeated the purpose. apologies if i caused you unnecessary anxiety, but i'm paid to be suspicious. thought i'd return this.
speaker3: any word on the writ?
speaker2: denied. tape went to a federal judge two hours ago. your videographer friend made contact?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what you got was definitely a snippet. could be he has more previews scheduled. best stick close to your room.
speaker1: how's david?
speaker2: holdin' up. i'm headed back over.
speaker1: tell him i'll take care of it, about his son, i mean.
speaker2: will do. we'll talk later?
speaker2: watch yourselves.
speaker1: mr. belyeu.
speaker1: were dusty and constance close?
speaker2: thick as thieves.

speaker1: zack! wake up! get up! 
speaker1: did you throw the towel on the floor?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the towel on my bathroom floor. did you put it there?
speaker2: yeah, i guess. it's a hotel room. what --
speaker1: do you do that at home?
speaker2: no. bitsey. i'm sorry, it's not like it's --
speaker1: get up.
speaker2: what the fuck's wrong with you?
speaker1: grab the t.v. i want to check something.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we're taking a tour.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: austin. get the t.v.

speaker1: wanna make a hundred bucks? 
speaker2: what do i gotta do?
speaker1: we're going over the crime scene.
speaker1: and for the next hour i want you to do exactly what i say when i say to do it. if i say zack's dick, all i want to hear from you is 'may i swallow.'
speaker2: you want me to his dick?
speaker3: it's just a patriarchal figure of speech.
speaker1: is your boyfriend here?
speaker2: he ain't exactly my boyfriend anymore.
speaker1: well is his video camera here?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: get it.
speaker2: i gotta collect first.

speaker1: move those index cards, too. she picks up the index cards. 
speaker2: zoom in a hair.
speaker2: put the gloves on a dish rack.
speaker3: i don't have one.
speaker2: turn them inside out.
speaker2: move the tape roll about a foot to the left. and get rid of the handcuffs.
speaker2: come check this, zack. could you... what's your name?
speaker3: nico's cool.
speaker2: nico, lie down on the floor, facing the counter.
speaker1: we can imagine that part. i'll position her.
speaker2: that's fine. just straighten her legs.
speaker2: what's this?
speaker1: towel or something.
speaker2: okay, look at this.
speaker2: i noticed this back at the hotel. see?
speaker2: she moves her foot. why?
speaker1: good question.
speaker2: it's another fifteen seconds before she comes to. if she had passed out once, without fresh air she wouldn't come back. there was no head trauma, her blood tested normal --
speaker1: maybe she was faking, hoping he would go away.
speaker2: or...
speaker2: we've got to bag her.
speaker1: woa. not a good idea.
speaker2: all right, i'll do it.

speaker1: i found it. 
speaker2: okay, i want you to wait three minutes before you take it off.
speaker3: bitsey, i'm not so sure about this.
speaker2: three full minutes. just stand behind the tripod. both of you.
speaker4: is on the sink counter while she does this.
speaker2: have you started?

speaker1: twenty-two seconds. 
speaker1: thirty seconds.
speaker2: wicked.
speaker1: thirty-five... forty... forty-five... fifty.
speaker2: maybe she shouldn't...
speaker1: fifty-five... one minute... five... ten... one-fifteen...
speaker1: twenty... twenty-five... thirty...
speaker2: this isn't cool.
speaker1: ...thirty-five... one-forty... one-forty fi...
speaker3: zack!
speaker1: christ, bitsey. you okay? what if i'd've waited?
speaker1: no more experiments, all right? just tell me what's going on. you okay?
speaker3: she... she did it herself.

speaker1: she used the gloves to keep fingerprints off the tape and bag. then she put them back on the dish rack, but upside down and inside out, a housewives' habit. a murderer would have just tossed them aside -- like they were the first time we were here, like you do a towel in a hotel. 
speaker2: maybe, all right, maybe. but why wear these?
speaker1: they threw me. i forgot you have to have the key to put them on. but she needed them. she knew she would instinctively try to rip the bag off, that at some point automatism would kick in.
speaker3: a, like when people hang themselves. at the last second they go chicken, claw at the rope and the police find their own skin beneath their nails.
speaker1: and she swallowed the key so she couldn't get to it. she made sure there was no way out.
speaker2: woa, chill, chill. why not hang yourself, or take pills. why take your clothes off? why make it look like a murder?
speaker1: it's so calculated. she's handcuffed, taped at the mouth. the gloves. the tripod.
speaker2: why, bitsey? why fake your own murder?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: motive's like a major issue here.
speaker1: thanks, zack.
speaker2: it doesn't make sense. the woman's a bleeding-heart abolitionist. why frame an innocent man? why send gale to the chair for what looks --
speaker1: what'd you say?
speaker2: she had to know some innocent would take the fall.
speaker1: oh my zack, that's it! that's why! to prove it happens. to have absolute proof that the system convicts innocents.
speaker2: get the out of here.
speaker1: no, that's how she thought. she lived for deathwatch. if she's gonna die, why not die for it? that's why the tripod was here. to record proof, undeniable proof, the tape. that's why we got an out-take.
speaker2: a dead woman put the tape in your room?
speaker1: of course not. she needed help, someone to keep it, release it. someone she could trust, someone dedicated to the cause...
speaker2: thick as thieves.

speaker1: hairy. 
speaker2: come on.

speaker1: ...because of the berlin thing, constance knew the police would go straight to gale. in a way, he's perfect. a high profile alcoholic whose life was anyway. but... 
speaker2: she was in love with him.
speaker1: i don't know. something. they were close. she wouldn't want him dead.
speaker1: remember this thing about dusty being a bull-horner, going to far?
speaker2: why he was fired from deathwatch, and the a.c.l.u.
speaker1: right. maybe the plan was for dusty to release the tape after gale's conviction, after a year or so. you know, force him to dry out, let him play the heroic victim, give him back his dignity. so, dusty wright's sitting on this tape, waiting, the only one who knows about it. and maybe good ole dusty starts to think that an erroneous execution is a of a lot more politically useful than a last-minute save.
speaker2: which would only prove the system works.
speaker1: yeah. almost martyrs don't count. what's one murder to stop thousands?
speaker2: so he'll wait, release the whole tape after the execution.
speaker1: right. somewhere he must have the original. what time is it?

speaker1: don't move from the booth. call the second you see the truck. remember, let it ring just once. then get into the woods -- 
speaker2: i know. go.
speaker1: into the woods, zack.
speaker2: go!

speaker1:  
speaker2: come on. come on.

speaker1: everyone! wake up new york, the warden, the governor, the supreme court death clerk! how far is it? 
speaker2: took me 30 this afternoon. you've got 26, maybe more.
speaker1: i'll make it.

speaker1: all there? 
speaker2: passport and ticket as well.

speaker1: well, it's a tragedy for all of us. as to whether this will change policy, the people of texas will have to decide. right now, the prudent course is to put things on hold pendin' a procedural review, allow ourselves time to mourn. 
speaker2: you bet she'll review. capital punishment approval rates dropped 17 points.

speaker1: what are you going to do? 
speaker2: go to the opera.

speaker1: senorita gale esta viviendo aqui? 
speaker2: si. si.
speaker1: gracias.

speaker1: it's over. 
speaker1: want me to turn this off?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: i couldn't watch.
speaker1: she preferred it that way. you were right about not tellin' her the whole plan.
speaker3: it helped her to think her death would save me.
speaker1: you sure you want to do this?
speaker3: yeah. almost martyrs don't count.
speaker1: better go ahead then.

