speaker1: i'm real sorry about dorothy, walt. she was a real peach. 
speaker2: thanks for coming, al.
speaker2: christ.
speaker3: look at the old man glaring at ashley. he can't even tone it down at mom's funeral?
speaker4: what do you expect? dad's still living in the â‘50s. he expects his granddaughter to dress a little more modestly.
speaker3: yeah, well your kid's wearing a timberwolves jersey. i'm sure dad appreciates that.
speaker4: my point is that there's nothing anyone can do that won't disappoint the old man.

speaker1: it's inevitable. that's why we stopped doing thanksgivings; the deal with the boat motor, the broken bird bath, it's always something. 
speaker2: what are we going to do with him? don't you think he'll get in trouble by himself over in the old neighborhood?
speaker3: why don't you have him move in with you?
speaker2: ha ha.
speaker4: death... is often a bittersweet occasion to us catholics. bitter in the pain it causes the deceased ... and their families. sweet to those who know the salvation that awaits them. and some may ask, what is death. is it the end? or is it the beginning? and what is life? what is this thing we call life?
speaker5: 

speaker1: a lot of people showed up after the service. 
speaker2: yeah, well, i s'pose they knew there'd be plenty of ham. i think i'll go downstairs and get some more chairs.
speaker1: i'll do it, dad.
speaker2: naw, we need them now, not next week.

speaker1: is that dad? 
speaker2: no, it's grandpa walt.
speaker3: â‘third platoon, e company, march second, 1952, korea.'
speaker2: where's korea?
speaker3: if i know?

speaker1: how long do we have to stay, this ghetto is a dead zone for my cell and i'm bored. 
speaker2: ashley, honey. why don't you help grandpa walt with the chairs?
speaker1: me?
speaker3: yes you.
speaker1: grandpa walt, can i help you with the chairs.
speaker4: i'll take care of it, you just painted your nails.
speaker4: i'd better salt the sidewalk before someone falls and breaks a hip.

speaker1: walt steps inside and catches ashley sneaking a 
speaker2: wow, grandpa, when'd you get the vintage car?

speaker1: i never knew you had a cool old car. 
speaker2: it's only been in here since before you were born.

speaker1: so, what are you like going to do with it like, when... you die? 
speaker2: joseph and mary.
speaker1: then what about that super cool retro couch in the den, i'm going to state next year and i don't have, like, any furniture?

speaker1: who the are you? 
speaker2: i'm tao, i live next door.
speaker1: what?! speak up, boy, get the out of your mouth. what do you want?
speaker2: do you have jumper cables? my uncle's car is old and...
speaker1: no. and have some respect, zipper head, we're mourning over here. walt slams the door in tao's face.

speaker1: how you holding up, walt? 
speaker2: mr. kowalski.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: it's mr. kowalski, not walt.
speaker1: right, mr. kowalski. your wife and i became quite close these last few months. she asked that i watch over you when she passed on. i told her i watch out for my entire flock, but she made me promise i'd keep an extra sharp eye on you.
speaker2: i appreciate your kindness to my wife and now that you've spoken your piece, why don't you move on to the next sheep?
speaker1: dorothy mentioned specifically that it was her wish for you to go to confession. she said she couldn't remember the last time you went.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: it is.
speaker2: well, i confess i never much liked church and only went because of the wife. and i confess i have no desire to confess to a boy who is fresh out of the seminary.

speaker1: i'd really like to help, dad, but we have to get the kids home, they're getting restless. 
speaker2: fine. go.
speaker1: i'll call in a few, see how you're doing.
speaker2: kill you to buy american.

speaker1: at least he didn't say anything this time. 
speaker2: he didn't have to.
speaker1: well, what do you expect? the man worked at a ford plant for twenty- eight years.
speaker2: and i suppose that's my fault?

speaker1: walt gets his guests' engine running. 
speaker2: barbarians. barbarians.

speaker1: whatta you gonna do, gook? you gonna â‘kung fu' us? 
speaker2: surprised it ain't a girl's bike.
speaker1: you gonna get up or what?
speaker1: tell you what, i'll let you take the first swing. you drop me and you can have your bike back.
speaker1: what the you smiling at, gook? something funny?
speaker1: you better get the outta here,

speaker1: chinks let their yards go to hell. polarski would turn over in his grave if he could see what they did to his lawn. 
speaker1: i don't know why these slopes had to move to my block. this used to be a nice neighborhood.

speaker1: christ, dog, have you gone totally deaf? 
speaker2: hi there, walt.
speaker1: listen, son, you're not my barber, you're not a friend, so why in the do you think you can call me walt?
speaker2: sorry... mr. kowalski.
speaker1: so, what are you peddling now?
speaker2: oh, nothing. thought i'd drop by and see how you were doing. haven't seen you in church in awhile.
speaker1: okay. you've done your good deed, now why don't you run along.
speaker2: i'd really like to talk, mr.
speaker1: i don't think so, kid. sorry.
speaker2: why? do you have a problem with me, mr. kowalski?
speaker1: you don't want to know.
speaker2: no, i do.
speaker1: the problem is i think you're an overeducated, 27-year-old virgin who holds the hands of superstitious old women and promises them eternity.

speaker1: tao walks down the street, his head in a book. he 
speaker2: is you a boy or a girl, i can't tell?
speaker3: what you reading, gook, and the rice stalk?
speaker2: that's right, you keep walking. slopes everywhere you look, man. why gooks come up in here and up our neighborhood?
speaker4: dude, that's my little cousin, tao.
speaker5: you sure about that, spider?
speaker4: i'm sure. do we do something... or what?
speaker5: your cousin tight with anyone?

speaker1: no, he flies solo, smokie. 
speaker2: okay. let's go help out our little cousin.
speaker2: you better not be giving my bro here a hard time or you're gonna wish you never been born.
speaker3: oh goody, more rice niggers.
speaker4: viet cong swamp rats. go back to your rice paddy.
speaker2: where the does he think he's going? turn us around and go after that cousin of yours.
speaker1: hey, cuz, slow down, where you going? you should really think about hanging with us, man. if we all stick together, like that won't happen, with those spicks.
speaker1: you can't be such a little girl. you join up with us, we'll keep you out of trouble, cuz.

speaker1: hey, cuz. hey, sue. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: came to talk to my cousin tao.
speaker3: spider, who's the other cousin?
speaker2: â‘spider'? is that what he just called you, fong?
speaker1: this is my little cousin, sue.
speaker3: hey, sue... how old are you, girl?
speaker2: mentally, i'm way too old for you.

speaker1: that's right, go inside while the men talk. 
speaker2: yeah, that's exactly what i'm doing, fong.
speaker1: you think about what we talked about?
speaker3: that's exactly the point, tao. spider told me how everyone thinks you're a pushover, how everybody walks all over you and i mean, look at you, out here working in the garden like a woman.
speaker3: it ain't no big thing. you just need a little guidance.
speaker3: it's true, man. i used to be kind of a quiet little punk like you, everybody with me. but finally i said â‘no more.' you, you're lucky, tao, we got your back. me? i didn't have nobody. had to mold my own tribe.
speaker1: smokie's right. we're family, right? you with us or what?
speaker3: i swear, brother, we're the best friends you'll ever have. and anyone with you, they're

speaker1: come on, man. 
speaker2: what do i have to do?
speaker3: spider mentioned that neighbor of yours.

speaker1: now that's a car. 
speaker2: ya. 1972 gran torino fastback. cobra jet engine. mint.

speaker1: i got one. a mexican, a jew and a colored guy walk into a bar, the bartender looks up at them and says -- â‘get the out.' 
speaker2: so, here's where my flock congregates when they're not in church.

speaker1: hiya, father j. 
speaker2: hi, mel. hey there, darrel.
speaker3: hello, father.
speaker2: hi, walt.
speaker3: what brings you in here, father?
speaker2: no. i came down to talk to walt, if that's okay.
speaker4: i have to hand it to you, padre.
speaker2: i promised your wife.
speaker4: oh christ, let's grab a booth.

speaker1: the waitress comes over. 
speaker2: i'll have a pabst and a shot.
speaker3: i'll have a diet coke.
speaker2: bullshit, this is a bar, what do you want to drink?

speaker1: ummmm... i'll have a gin and tonic. 
speaker2: attaboy.
speaker2: so, what do you want?
speaker1: i promised your wife i'd get you to go to confession.
speaker2: christ, why'd you do that?
speaker1: she was very insistent. she made me.
speaker2: you sure are fond of promising people stuff you can't deliver on.
speaker1: let's talk about something else.
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: life and death.
speaker2: what would you know about it?
speaker1: i'd like to think i know a lot.
speaker2: you stand at the altar and preach on and on about life and death without knowing anything other than what you learned in priest school. everything you say sounds like it's out of the rookie preachers handbook.
speaker1: i don't know about that...

speaker1: walt waves his hand and cuts him off. 
speaker2: â‘death is bittersweet? bitter in the pain, sweet in the salvation.' that's what you know of life and death? good it's pathetic.
speaker3: what do you know, mr. kowalski?
speaker2: plenty. i lived with death for three years in korea. we shot people, we stabbed them with bayonets, we hacked seventeen-year- old kids to death with shovels, for christ's sake. i did things that won't leave me till the day i die, horrible things, things i have to live with.
speaker3: and what about life?
speaker2: well... i survived the war... got married... and raised a family.
speaker3: sounds like you know more about death than you do living.
speaker2: maybe so.

speaker1: get in, tao. 
speaker2: no way. no way. leave me alone!
speaker3: i vouched for you, tao, because you're family and you're with us now.
speaker2: he shot at me! i'm out! i'm out!!!
speaker1: don't fool yourself, tao. you don't join us and bail. motherfucker.
speaker3: should we go after him?
speaker1: naw, he's got nowhere to go.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: morning, dad, it's your number one son, mitch.
speaker1: it's one in the afternoon.

speaker1: right, good afternoon, then. 
speaker2: so, what do you want?
speaker1: me? nothing. what would i want?
speaker2: i don't know. your wife already went through all of your mother's jewelry.
speaker1: no. i was just wondering how you are, what's going on, anything new in the old neighborhood?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: great. smooth sailing then?
speaker2: yup.
speaker1: well good... say, dad?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: do you still know that guy from the plant who has viking season tickets?

speaker1: it's stunning. it absolutely sparkles. the chrome 
speaker2: that's right, ain't she pretty.

speaker1: hey, cuz. what's up? 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: be happy. we've got good news.

speaker1: oh really? what's that? 
speaker2: we're giving you another shot.
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker2: you blew it the first time. we've got another little inauguration planned for you. this time there'll be no mistakes.
speaker1: another big, tough gangbanger with â‘little-man' complex.
speaker2: i got my eye on you too, little girl.
speaker1: whatever.
speaker2: come on, tao. let's go.
speaker4: he said, let's go.
speaker2: come on, man. nobody's gonna get hurt. we'll take care of you.
speaker1: don't go, tao.
speaker2: you mind your own business, girl.

speaker1: i know what you are. go away and don't come back. 
speaker2: that old woman's got bigger than you. you always let little girls and old ladies fight for you?
speaker2: i'm not gonna say it again. let's go. now. tao is shoved towards the car.
speaker3: run, tao, run!

speaker1: get off my lawn. 
speaker2: listen, old man, you don't want...
speaker1: i said get off my lawn. now.
speaker2: are you crazy? go back in your house, old man.
speaker1: get off my lawn.
speaker2: i'm not around, gramps.
speaker1: don't think for a second i won't blow a big hole in your face and it won't bother me a bit, not any more than if i shot a deer. now get off my lawn.
speaker1: believe me, kid, i'll blow your head off, go back to bed and sleep like a baby. i couldn't care less.
speaker2: i'm not gonna warn you again!
speaker1: you're nothing to me. in korea, we stacked like you five feet high and used you as sandbags.

speaker1: you better watch yourself, old man. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: i said get off my lawn.

speaker1: walt looks around and slowly lowers his rifle. 
speaker2: bad dog. bad deaf, blind dog.

speaker1: why won't these people leave me alone? 
speaker2: we brought you some shallots to plant in your garden.
speaker1: i don't want them.
speaker2: they're perennials, they come back every year.
speaker1: no. you keep them. why do you people keep giving me all this garbage?

speaker1: because... because you saved tao. 
speaker2: no, i didn't. all i did was get a bunch of jabbering gooks off my lawn.
speaker1: well, you're a hero to the neighborhood.
speaker2: no, i'm not.
speaker1: too bad, they think you are and that's why they're bringing you the gifts.
speaker2: just take your plant and leave me alone. walt turns and starts to walk away.
speaker1: there's another thing.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this is my mother, vu, i'm sue and this is my brother, tao. we live next door.
speaker2: so?
speaker1: tao is here to apologize.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker2: for what?

speaker1: for trying to steal your car. 
speaker2: get this straight, i see you on my property again, you're done.

speaker1: good afternoon, walt. 
speaker1: i mean, mr. kowalski.
speaker2: i already told you i'm not going to confession.
speaker1: why didn't you just call the police?
speaker2: pardon?
speaker1: i do work with some of the hmong gangs and i heard there was some trouble in the neighborhood. why didn't you call the police?
speaker2: oh, i prayed for them to show up, but guess what? no answer.
speaker1: what were you thinking? someone could have been killed. we're talking life and death here.

speaker1: not that it's any of your business, but when things happen quickly like that, you have to react. in korea, we never â‘called the police' when a swarm of screaming gooks came pouring into our lines. we reacted. 
speaker2: we're not in korea, mr. kowalski.
speaker2: i've been thinking about our discussion on life and death. about what you said. about how you carry around the horrible things you were forced to do. horrible things that won't leave you. it seems that it would do you good to unload some of that burden. things done during war are terrible, being ordered to kill, killing to save others, killing to save yourself. you're right, those are things i don't know anything about. but i do know about forgiveness. and i've seen a lot of men who have confessed their sins, admitted their guilt and left their burdens behind them. stronger men than you. men at war who were ordered to do appalling things and are now at peace.
speaker1: i'm impressed. you came with your guns loaded, for once.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you have balls, father. and what you said, you're right. i'm sure stronger men than me have found their salvation. hallelujah. but there's one thing you're way wrong about.

speaker1: what's that, mr. kowalski? 
speaker2: the thing that haunts a guy is the stuff he wasn't ordered to do.

speaker1: there, you look like a human being again. you shouldn't wait so long between haircuts, you cheap bastard. 
speaker2: i'm just amazed that you're still alive. i keep hoping you'll die and they'll get someone good in here, but you just hang in there, you italian-wop-dago, you.
speaker1: that'll be ten dollars, walt.
speaker2: ten dollars? christ, martin, you keep raising the price. you sure you're not part jew?
speaker1: it's been ten bucks for the last five years and you know it, you thick-skulled, old pollack son of a
speaker2: here's ten, keep the change.
speaker1: see you in three weeks, you prick.
speaker2: if you live that long, dipshit.

speaker1: hey, girl, you come over here and talk to me. come on, baby, don't be shy. 
speaker1: come on, sweetie, don't be like that. you talk to me, don't be all stuck up and

speaker1: what are you â‘sposed to be? 
speaker2: yo, it's cool, dog.

speaker1: what the are you doing in my neighborhood, boy? 
speaker2: nothing. we're going to red roost to get some cds. that place is trippin', bro.
speaker1: what you call me, you with me, you think you're funny?
speaker2: nothing. no.
speaker1: i'm warning you, boy. what you all come up in here for? you here to bring me this present?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: this oriental yummy for me? don't worry, i'll take good care of her.
speaker3: great, another with a fetish for asian girls. it gets so old.
speaker1: what's your name, girl?
speaker3: my name? it's â‘take your crude, overly obvious come-on to every woman who walks past and cram it.' that's my name.
speaker1: you should keep your on a leash, put a choke chain on this and yank.
speaker3: oh, of course, right to the stereotype thesaurus. call me â‘whore' and â‘bitch' in the same sentence.

speaker1: you think you're pretty funny, don't you? 
speaker2: what, are you gonna hit me now? that'd pretty much complete the picture.
speaker1: you don't know when to quit.
speaker1: what the you looking at, old man?
speaker3: you... and your buddies. what's the matter with you? don't any of you work? i see you lazy show- offs in the middle of the day, slowly walking across the street or harassing women. nobody owes you anything so go out and get a job instead of pushing little girls around, for christ's sake.
speaker1: why don't you get the out of here, while i'll still let you.
speaker4: that's right,
speaker3: what makes you spooks think you can bully a couple kids with impunity?
speaker1: what?! are you crazy?

speaker1: look at me, slick. you're crazy if you thinking i'm fooling around. 
speaker2: you are crazy.
speaker1: you have to be pretty to think you can push people around without running into someone who will push back.
speaker1: but you might just be enough not to recognize that your luck just ran out.
speaker2: this guy. he ain't worth it.
speaker3: man, thanks a lot, mister.
speaker1: go home, clown... and pull up your pants.
speaker1: come on, i'll give you a ride.

speaker1: so, what's with you, you have some sort of savior complex or something? 
speaker2: what in the hell's the matter with you? i thought all you asian girls were supposed to be so smart. what are you doing walking around in that neighborhood? that's how you end up in the obituaries, that is, if they can identify your body once they pull it out of the river.
speaker1: i know, i know. take it easy.
speaker2: so, that goofball back there.
speaker1: yeah, kind of, his name is trey.
speaker2: why in the would you go out with a clown like that. why don't you date one of your... own...one of those other... hu-mungs.
speaker1: you mean, hmong? we're hmong, not hu-mung.
speaker2: right. hmong. what is a... where is hmong or whatever?
speaker1: wow! you're so enlightened. hmong isn't a place, it's a people.

speaker1: hmong people come from different parts of laos and thailand and china. 
speaker2: then why are you in my neighborhood, instead of back there?
speaker3: it's a vietnam thing. we fought on your side and when america quit, the communists starting killing the hmong, so we came over here.
speaker2: why'd you pick the midwest, for christ's sake? there's snow on the ground near half the year. jungle people on the frozen tundra?
speaker3: hill people. we were hill people, not jungle people. boo-ga, boo- ga, boo-ga.
speaker2: whatever.
speaker3: blame the lutherans. they brought us here.
speaker2: still, you'd think the cold would keep all the away.
speaker3: thanks for the ride.
speaker2: sure... you know, you seem okay. what the hell's the matter with your half-wit brother? he a little slow or something?

speaker1: tao is actually really bright, he just doesn't know which direction to go in. 
speaker2: oh, poor toad.
speaker1: it's really common. hmong girls over here fit in better, we adjust. the girls go to college, the boys go to jail.

speaker1: old hag, giving me the evil eye? 
speaker1: aw, what the hell...
speaker1: your birthday today; this year you have to make a choice between two life paths. second chances come your way. extraordinary events culminate in what might seem to be an anti-climax. your lucky numbers are: 84, 23, 11, 78 and

speaker1: christ all friday. what's wrong with kids today? 
speaker1: well, i'll be

speaker1: go ahead, dad. open it. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: just open it.
speaker1: it's a gopher. it's so you can reach stuff. you know, it makes things easier.
speaker3: here's one from me.

speaker1: it's a phone. 
speaker2: thank you, karen.
speaker1: i just thought... we thought that it would... make things easier.
speaker2: yeah, i see that.
speaker1: there's nothing wrong with making things less hard on yourself.
speaker3: karen's right, dad. you've worked hard your whole life. maybe you should think about taking it a little easier?
speaker3: and that's another thing, dad. you should get rid of the coffin nails.
speaker3: and the house, now that mom's gone, it's got to be a lot to maintain, let alone clean... and you're all alone in here.
speaker1: there's these great places now, these communities where you don't have to worry about mowing the lawn or shoveling snow. people who are like you, alert, active, but are alone and would benefit by being with other folks their own age.

speaker1: i told you, i told you this was a bad idea. 
speaker2: i know, you were right.
speaker1: son of a he just won't let anyone help him.
speaker2: well, we tried. now we can just drop it. no one can say we didn't try.
speaker1: to with him, kicking us out on his birthday?! we should've stayed home with ashley and josh. they knew better, they wouldn't even come. the kids are smarter than we are!

speaker1: we miss momma, don't we, daisy. 
speaker2: hey, walt, what are you up to?
speaker2: we're having a barbecue. you want to come over?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: there's tons of food.
speaker1: i'll bet. just keep your paws off my dog.
speaker2: no worries, we only eat cats.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: no, i'm kidding, you moron. come on, come on over. you can be my special guest.
speaker1: i'm fine right here.
speaker1: son of a

speaker1: what have you had to eat today, walt? 
speaker2: a piece of cake and some beef jerky.
speaker1: come on over and get something to eat. we've got beer, too.
speaker2: oh, what the hell. it's my birthday, i may as well drink with strangers instead of myself.
speaker1: happy birthday, wally.
speaker2: don't call me wally.

speaker1: you do have a lot of beer, but no pabst. 
speaker2: as they say, when in hmong.
speaker1: ha ha. are you sure it's okay i'm here? everyone keeps looking at me and when i look back, they look at the ground.
speaker2: it's fine.

speaker1: what'd she say? 
speaker2: she said welcome to our home.
speaker1: no she didn't.
speaker2: no, she didn't.

speaker1: she hates me. 
speaker2: yes, she hates you.
speaker1: what did i do?
speaker1: what?! what the are all you fish heads looking at?!
speaker2: maybe we should go in the other room.

speaker1: a lot of the people in this house are very traditional. number one, never touch a hmong person on the head, not even a child. hmong people believe that the soul resides in the head, so don't do that. 
speaker2: that's but fine.
speaker1: hmong people also consider looking someone in the eye to be rude. that's why everyone looks away when you look at them.
speaker2: swell. anything else?
speaker1: yeah, some hmong smile or grin when they're yelled at or get into a confrontation. it's a cultural thing. it expresses embarrassment or insecurity, not that they're laughing at you.
speaker2: good you people are all nuts.

speaker1: walt opens another beer, as sue speaks hmong to a 
speaker2: hey, sue.
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you said you guys don't look you in the eye, but that guy keeps staring at me.

speaker1: this is kor khue. he's the lor family shaman. 
speaker2: witch doctor?
speaker1: something like that. the hmong hold their clan shaman in very high regards.
speaker2: boo-ga, boo-ga.
speaker1: kor khue is interested in you, he heard what you did. he says he would like to read you.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: he wants to read you. tell you your soul. it'd be rude not to allow him this, it's a great honor.
speaker2: tell kor to be my guest, fire away.
speaker1: kor khue says that you think you've been disrespected. you do not live your life. your food has no flavor. you are scared of your past.

speaker1: you stopped living years and years ago. kor khue says you're not at peace. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker2: je -- zuz -- christ.
speaker3: are you okay?

speaker1: walt looks at himself. 
speaker2: happy birthday.
speaker3: are you okay?
speaker2: me? i'm fine.
speaker3: you were bleeding?
speaker2: i just bit my tongue. i'm fine. i'm great. let's get some of that gook food, i'm starving.

speaker1: come on, you glutton, let's go downstairs. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: to mingle.
speaker2: i'm fine right here. i'm mingling.
speaker1: come on, you said â‘not to leave you alone.'

speaker1: oh great. 
speaker2: well, look who's over there.
speaker1: what's-his-name who tried to steal my gran torino.
speaker2: my brother tao.
speaker1: yeah, toad.
speaker1: it was wobbly, but i fixed it. it's fine now, shouldn't wobble anymore.
speaker1: what's this?

speaker1: rice liquor. try it. 
speaker2: alright.
speaker3: my friends and i were just wondering what you're doing here?
speaker2: good question. what am i doing here? anyways, i'm walt.
speaker3: hi, walt. i'm wa xam.
speaker2: wa yum?
speaker3: no, wa xam. so... what do you do?
speaker2: me? not too much... i fix stuff i guess.
speaker3: like what?
speaker2: well, i fixed my wife's friend's sink yesterday.

speaker1: i drove my aunt to the doctor to straighten out her prescription. even fixed my screen door before it was broke. 
speaker2: you're funny.
speaker3: that's one thing i've never been accused of. a bastard, yes. funny, no.
speaker2: well, have fun. i'm going to take off.
speaker3: a pleasure to meet you, yum yum.
speaker3: relax, zipper head, whatta you think i'm gonna do, shoot you?
speaker3: i wouldn't say anything either, if i was you.
speaker3: you know, i knew you were a dipshit even before the whole garage deal, but i have to say you're even worse with women than you are stealing cars, toad.
speaker4: it's tao.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker4: it's tao, not toad. my name is tao.

speaker1: good for you. anyways, you're blowing it with that girl. not that i give two about a toad like you. 
speaker2: you don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: wrong, egg roll. i completely know what i'm talking about. i know i'm not always the most pleasant person to be around, but i got the greatest woman who ever lived to marry me. i had to work at it, but i got her and it was the best thing that ever happened to me. hands down.
speaker1: but you? you just sit there and watch as ding dong and click clack and charlie chan walk away with what's-her-face. she likes you, you know.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: she was standing over there, orange dress, twisting her hair and smiling at you.
speaker2: you mean wa xam?
speaker1: yeah, yeah. anyways, she likes you, i know, i talked to her. great girl, charming girl. love her. i love yum yum. but you? you just watch her walk out the door with the three stooges. why? because you're a big fat pussy!

speaker1: no. no thanks. no more flowers. 
speaker1: no more. please, keep your flowers.
speaker1: okay, just put them on the porch.

speaker1: what now, gee? 
speaker1: no. forget it. stop bringing me stuff.
speaker1: no. i've had it.

speaker1: i can't. you have to stop. 
speaker1: is that the chicken dumpling thing you brought the other day?

speaker1: what now? what? 
speaker2: tao is here to make amends, he's here to work for you.
speaker1: no he's not.
speaker2: mother says that tao dishonored the family and now he has to work off his debt. he'll start tomorrow morning.
speaker1: no. the kid is useless, i don't even want him on my property. i thought we already went over that.
speaker2: it's very important to my mother that you accept. it'd be an insult to refuse.
speaker1: how is this all of a sudden turned around on me? the kid tries to steal my car and somehow i'm the bad guy if i don't accept?

speaker1: my family is very traditional and it will very much upset them if you don't let tao repay... 
speaker2: come on, sue. if he doesn't want to, let's just go.
speaker3: shut up. shut up! shut up!! tao looks at the ground.
speaker4: fine. great. tomorrow.
speaker4: joseph and mary. these hmong broads are like badgers.

speaker1: son of a i didn't think he'd show. 
speaker1: okay. what are you good at?
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: that's what i'm asking. what are you good at?

speaker1: if you're gonna work for me, i have to know what you can do. 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: that's about what i expected. okay, why don't you go over by the spruce tree and count how many birds feed at the bird feeder.
speaker2: count the birds?
speaker3: yeah, you can count? you slopes are supposed to be good at math, right?
speaker2: yes, i can count.

speaker1: you want me to do that? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i want it done right, that's why.
speaker1: but you've got me just standing here. what am i supposed to be doing, anyway?
speaker2: scaring away crows.

speaker1: what do you have for me today? you want me to watch paint dry or maybe count the clouds that pass by? 
speaker2: don't get flip with me, zipper head. i ain't the one who tried to steal and don't forget it.
speaker1: go ahead. i don't care if you insult me and say racist things.
speaker2: that i know. you have no teeth, kid. that's your problem. you have no balls.
speaker1: look, i'm stuck here. why don't you give me something useful to do.
speaker2: because unlike you i'm not useless. i maintain my property, whereas you swamp rats let your houses go to hell.
speaker2: wait a minute... how long do i have you for?
speaker2: how long, toad?

speaker1: till next friday. 
speaker2: go get my ladder out of the garage.

speaker1: when you're done caulking the siding, nail that gutter back up, i can see it right out my kitchen window, it's been bugging me for three years. 
speaker1: you said it, brother.

speaker1: grandpa says he want to know if you can have tao clear out the big wasp nest under our porch? 
speaker2: i don't see why not.
speaker2: tell him sometime after lunch.

speaker1: lord almighty, knock it off. 
speaker2: it's my last day, whatta you want me to do?
speaker1: take the day off, you've done enough.

speaker1: toad. 
speaker1: nothing, never mind.

speaker1: mr. kowalski? 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: good afternoon. i looked over your paperwork and i think we should immediately start on a full battery of tests. i feel that this...
speaker2: wait a minute. where's my regular doctor, where's dr. fellman?

speaker1: dr. fellman retired three years ago. i'm his replacement, dr. 
speaker2: christ.

speaker1: it's grandpa walt. 
speaker2: well, pick it up.
speaker1: you talk to him.
speaker2: mitch?
speaker3: i'm doing bills here.
speaker2: he's your father.
speaker3: hello, dad.
speaker4: hello? it's me... dad.
speaker3: i know. what's up?
speaker4: um... not much, how about you?
speaker3: i'm fine, fine.
speaker4: fine. that's fine... how about the kids and karen?

speaker1: everyone is fine. 
speaker2: good.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: well, that's good... how's...
speaker1: busy.
speaker2: right. i s'pose.
speaker1: speaking of busy, i have a lot on my plate right now, unless there's something pressing.
speaker2: no. nope.
speaker2: okay then.
speaker1: okay. yeah, so it's not a good time right now. why don't you call me over the weekend.
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: okay, it was nice talking to you, bye, dad.

speaker1: hey, moron. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i appreciate you're doing something on your own, but you're the only person i know enough to get himself killed trimming tree branches.
speaker2: what now?
speaker1: you don't stand on the top step of a ladder and if you cut through that branch you're hacking away at, you'll end up kaput.
speaker1: go grab the extension ladder from my garage and i'll show you how to do it right, zipper head.

speaker1: make sure you put the ladder back when you're done raking up the leaves. 
speaker2: i know. i will.
speaker1: this kid doesn't have a chance.

speaker1: the doorbell rings. 
speaker2: what do you know about faucets?

speaker1: for the love of pete. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it must be a hundred degrees in here, turn on the fan.

speaker1: man, where did you get all this stuff? 
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: all the tools and stuff.
speaker2: where the do you think i got them, toad? this may come as a shock to a thief, but i actually bought the things i have with money i earned.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, yeah, that's not what i meant. there's just so much packed in here.
speaker2: you need the right tool for the right job. every single thing here has a purpose.

speaker1: okay, what's this? 
speaker2: post hole digger.
speaker2: hand spade. tin snips. nail punch. tack hammer. putty knife. wire stripper. drywall saw. tile spacers.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i can't afford to buy all this stuff.
speaker2: i didn't buy all this stuff at once, blockhead. i've lived here for fifty years. a man stays in one place long enough he tends to attract a decent set of tools.
speaker1: yeah, but...
speaker2: look, kid, i think i know where you're going with this. you don't need everything to maintain a house. i'm going to let you in on a little secret.
speaker2: this is for you. roll of duct tape, can of wd-40 and a pair of vise-grips. any man who's worth a can do half his household jobs with these three things. in the odd chance that doesn't work out, you can borrow something.

speaker1: okay. cool. 
speaker1: what's with that?
speaker2: what's with what?
speaker1: the blood you just coughed up. that's not good, you should see a doctor.
speaker2: so... what exactly was the deal with those guys out on my lawn that night? who are they?
speaker1: a gang. hmong gangbangers.
speaker2: i gathered that. what did they want with you?
speaker1: they wanted to take me away because i blew my first initiation.
speaker2: you joined up with those pukes? damn, you are a pussy. why in the did you do that?
speaker1: i don't know. they were persuasive. my cousin's in the gang. they just talked me into it i guess.
speaker2: well, at least you're honest about it.

speaker1: so how'd you blow your first initiation? 
speaker1: the gran torino?
speaker1: christ all friday.

speaker1: see you later, i'm taking the kids to the mall. 
speaker2: yeah, fine. just don't spend too much money.
speaker1: i will.
speaker2: thank finally get the house to myself for once.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: hello? it's me, dad... walt.
speaker1: hey, dad. what's up?
speaker2: well... i... um... i'm getting the old westinghouse up out of the basement.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: so... i got it on the dolly.
speaker1: yeah, that'll help.
speaker2: yeah... and it's a bit heavy...
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: yeah... i need a hand.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: so are you busy?
speaker1: does it have to be done right this second? it's been down there for years.
speaker2: well... yeah, i'd like to get on it.

speaker1: does it work? we were thinking about getting a freezer. what are you going to do with it? 
speaker2: giving it to aunt mary.
speaker1: oh... can't she give you a hand?
speaker2: she's eighty-one.
speaker1: i know, i was joking... what does she need it for?
speaker2: to freeze food.
speaker1: yeah, well, i'd love to help you out, dad, but i'm just walking out the door. i have to bring the kids to the mall. sorry.
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: why don't you call stevie?
speaker2: your brother lives out of state.
speaker1: well, i don't know what to tell you, i'm on my way out. keys in my hand.
speaker2: okay then.
speaker1: if you can't find anyone by next week, give me a call. walt nods and hangs up.

speaker1: i just need a little push. all the weight is up top, so you stay down and give me a little shove at each step. 
speaker2: let me take the top.
speaker1: naw, i got it.
speaker2: no really, i'll take the top. it looks pretty heavy.
speaker1: i'm not crippled. i got it.
speaker2: if you don't let me take the top, i ain't helping. i'll go home.
speaker1: listen, zipper head, now's not the time to go and...
speaker2: you listen, old man. you came and got me because you needed help, so let me help you. either it's top or i'm out of here.

speaker1: okay then, be my guest. just don't let it slip out of your little girl hands and crush me. 
speaker2: don't give me any ideas.

speaker1: that thing weighs a ton. 
speaker2: yeah, but it runs like new. they don't make them like that anymore.
speaker1: what are you going to do with it?
speaker2: sell it. i haven't used it in years and it was always in the way down there.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: oh, i don't know. sixty bucks, maybe. why, you need a freezer?
speaker1: our downstairs one died.
speaker2: twenty-five and it's yours.
speaker1: twenty-five? you just said sixty?
speaker2: save me from wasting money on putting an ad in the paper.

speaker1: kind of ironic, huh? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what the do you think i'm referring to? toad washing the car he tried to steal from you.
speaker2: it seems like justice to me. and if he misses a spot, he's doing it all over.
speaker1: it's nice of you to kind of look after him like this. he doesn't have any real role models in his life.
speaker2: i ain't a role model.
speaker1: you're a good man, wally. i wish our dad would have been more like you.
speaker2: don't call me wally.
speaker1: no, i'm serious. he was hard on us, really traditional, really old school.
speaker2: i'm old school.
speaker1: yeah, but you're american.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?

speaker1: you like him, don't you? 
speaker2: him? don't be crazy. he tried to steal my car.
speaker1: and you spend time with him and you teach him how to fix things and you saved him from that cousin of ours and...
speaker2: hey. watch the language.
speaker1: and you're a good man.
speaker2: hand me a beer, dragon lady.
speaker2: so tell me the problem with hmong boys again. i'm not completely clear.
speaker1: hmong girls slip in and out of the culture more easily. date who we want, stay close to our mothers, but are able to keep a foot on each side of the fence. the boys fall through the cracks.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: it's tough. the boys float around. the fathers belong in a totally different world and the boys have no one to turn to. does that make sense?
speaker2: not sure. no.
speaker1: the boys don't ask their fathers for advice, because over here, their fathers no longer have the answers.

speaker1: hmong boys become almost invisible, they end up banding together and it all goes to from there. 
speaker2: the girls go to college and the boys go to jail.
speaker3: it's more common than not.
speaker2: you still going out with that clown?
speaker3: no. i dumped him. he was a dim- wit.
speaker2: good girl.

speaker1: you know, the hmong consider gardening to be women's work. 
speaker2: is that why i see you out in your garden all the time? besides, zipper head, we ain't in hu-mong.
speaker1: funny.
speaker1: you should quit those. it's bad for you.
speaker2: so is joining a gang, you dipshit.

speaker1: seriously, you should quit, i saw you cough up blood. 
speaker2: so, you ever think about what you want to do with your life?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: you've never thought about it?
speaker1: of course i have.
speaker2: well, while you're thinking about it, try not to stomp all over my chives, you dipshit.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: put some mulch around the cucumbers.
speaker1: i was thinking about sales, maybe.
speaker2: my oldest son's a salesman. he sells cars.
speaker1: does he do well?
speaker2: license to steal. i worked in a ford plant for thirty years and my son sells japanese cars.
speaker1: you made cars?

speaker1: wow, that's cool. 
speaker2: it is, isn't it?
speaker1: does your son come over much?
speaker2: how are you going about getting into sales? you thinking about school?
speaker1: kinda.
speaker2: well, you should.
speaker1: school costs money.
speaker2: maybe you should get a job and save instead of spreading mulch in my garden.
speaker1: maybe you could just pay me.
speaker2: that's funny.
speaker1: what kind of job could i get?
speaker2: good question. who the would hire you?
speaker1: yeah, i know.
speaker2: aw, go on. i'm kidding. you could get a job, easy.

speaker1: like what? 
speaker2: i'd think about construction.
speaker1: me? construction? what, do you have alzheimer's or something?
speaker2: naw, you could hack it. you just need a little adjustment.
speaker1: you said yourself i'm worthless and i have soft little girl hands.
speaker2: that's exactly the point. i know some guys in the trades, but you have to get your together.
speaker1: man me up?
speaker2: yes. and you should ask out yum yum too.

speaker1: walt and tao walk up to the barbershop. 
speaker2: you have to learn how guys talk. now watch how me and martin communicate. we just throw it back and forth. you ready?
speaker3: sure.
speaker2: okay, let's go in.
speaker4: oh great, a pollack and a chink.

speaker1: afternoon, martin, you italian prick. 
speaker2: walt, you cheap asshole, i should have known you'd come in, i was having such a pleasant day.
speaker1: why, did you jew some blind man out of a few bucks, give him the wrong change?
speaker2: who's the nip?
speaker1: this is tao. he's a kid who lives next door and i'm trying to man him up a little.
speaker1: did you see? that's how men talk to each other.
speaker3: they do?
speaker2: what, do you have in your ears?
speaker1: okay. you go out, come back in and give it a try.
speaker3: come on, walt.
speaker1: i said go out there, come back in and talk to the barber like a man. do it.

speaker1: wus up, you old italian prick? 
speaker2: get outta my shop before i blow your head off, you long-haired faggy little gook! tao is terrified, frozen stiff.
speaker3: christ, toad, you don't walk in and insult a guy. what are you, an idiot?
speaker1: but... but that's what you said.
speaker3: not if you never met the guy. if you say that to the wrong stranger, they'll blow your gook head off!
speaker1: what should i have said?
speaker3: anything but that.
speaker2: kid, you shoulda just started with â‘hi' or â‘hello.'
speaker3: right. you should have said, â‘excuse me, i'm looking for a haircut if you have time.'
speaker2: yeah. be polite, but don't kiss ass.
speaker3: or, even better is act like you just got off a construction job.

speaker1: or about your girlfriend or getting your car fixed. 
speaker2: right. son of a i just got my brakes fixed and those sons a really nailed me. screwed me right in the ass.
speaker3: exactly. don't swear at the guy you're talking to, swear about another guy who ain't there. my son of a boss made me work overtime and he knew i had bowling tonight.
speaker2: or, my old lady to me for two hours about how they don't take expired coupons at the grocery store and the minute i turn on the game, she starts crying how we never talk.
speaker3: see? you come back in, toad. be polite and then you bring up something you can both talk about.
speaker4: yeah, but i don't have a job or a car or a girlfriend.
speaker2: sweet i shoulda blown his head off when i had the chance.
speaker3: just go back outside and try it again. and don't mention you're a with no car, girl, job, future or whatever. come in and act like a man, toad.
speaker4: excuse me, sir, i need a haircut, if you ain't too busy... you italian barber.

speaker1: walt and the barber laugh... 
speaker2: boy does my hurt from all the guys at my construction job.

speaker1: if you do this, you're going to follow through, right? 
speaker2: yeah, yeah.
speaker1: no, not yeah, yeah. yes, as in yes, sir, i'll do my best.
speaker2: yes, i'll do my best.
speaker1: you better, because when i vouch for someone, it's my word and i don't want anyone making me look bad.
speaker2: no, i'm good. i'm totally into this.
speaker1: and don't lay down to people all the time. always look a person in the eye. when you shake a man's hand, you can usually tell where you stand with him.
speaker1: here, stuff these in your back pocket.
speaker2: cool.
speaker1: just don't blow this.

speaker1: kennedy, you drunken irish goon, how the are ya? 
speaker2: shitty, but who's gonna listen?
speaker1: not me.
speaker2: help yourself, walt, you pollack.
speaker1: i already did. this is the kid i told you about. tao, this is tim kennedy, he's the super on the job.
speaker2: what do we got, walt?
speaker1: he's done construction here and there. whatever you need, he'll pick it up quick.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: you speak english?
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker2: you born here?

speaker1: you bet. 
speaker2: you got a vehicle? i see walt drove you here.
speaker1: not at the moment. i'm taking the bus for now.
speaker2: the bus? christ, you don't have a car?
speaker1: my headgasket cracked and the at the shop wants to bend me over for $2100.
speaker2: i just replaced the in my tahoe and the sons a me hard, just under $3200.
speaker1: thieves. it ain't right.
speaker2: you got that right. come on in on monday and we'll find something for you to do.
speaker1: thanks, mr. kennedy.
speaker2: it's tim. what's your name again?
speaker1: tao.
speaker2: okay. you owe me one, walt.
speaker3: i'll send you a fruitcake at christmas.

speaker1: the fruitcake, why don't you hand over the keys to that gran torino. 
speaker2: yeah, everybody seems to want that car.
speaker1: i bet.
speaker2: you don't know the half of it. come on, zipper head, let's let this big mick get back to off.

speaker1: walt pulls into a home depot parking lot. 
speaker2: what are we doing?
speaker3: what are you gonna put all your tools in, an empty rice bag?

speaker1: you'll need this. walt then tosses tao a utility knife holder. 
speaker1: and you'll need that. now where the do they hide the hardware holders?
speaker2: i can't afford any of this.
speaker1: i'll get it, but you're paying me back with your first check.

speaker1: cool. 
speaker2: and you need this too. that should about do it.
speaker1: not to but won't i be needing some tools?
speaker2: tools i got, but i ain't loaning you my tool belt. you can buy tools as you go.
speaker1: i appreciate all this.
speaker2: aw, forget it.
speaker1: no, i really do. thank you.

speaker1: what now? 
speaker2: just seeing what you're up to, cuz.

speaker1: i'm getting home from work, not that you guys would know much about that. 
speaker2: so it's true? you got a job.
speaker1: come on, what do you guys want with me?
speaker3: christ, tao. what do you think? i've been sooooo easy on you, but i can't just go on like nothing happened.
speaker1: you can't just leave me alone?
speaker3: afraid not.
speaker1: keep your hands off my stuff.
speaker3: your stuff? you and everything you have is mine. i own you.
speaker3: you can't just walk away from us, tao. it looks bad. it makes me look bad.
speaker3: what's the phrase i'm looking for? oh yeah, i need to â‘save face.'

speaker1: walt spots tao as he takes out the trash. 
speaker2: hey there.
speaker3: hey, i gotta run.
speaker2: wait a minute. where have you been, i haven't seen you in days?
speaker3: busy.
speaker2: what in the happened to you?
speaker3: don't worry about it.
speaker2: don't worry about it? look at your face!
speaker3: i said don't worry about it. it's not your problem.
speaker2: when?
speaker3: couple days ago. grabbed me after i got off the bus coming home from work.
speaker2: cowards.
speaker3: i did everything i could possibly do. they broke some of your tools. i'll replace them.

speaker1: forget the tools. where does your cousin live? 
speaker2: no, walt, i can manage. i don't want you doing anything.
speaker1: alright. you need any other tools for work?
speaker2: i could use a roofing hammer.
speaker1: go in the garage and get whatever you need.

speaker1: how the did you get here?! 
speaker2: you aren't that hard to track down.
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: i came to give you a chance.
speaker2: it's just you and me. nobody knows or has to know i was here. you lay off tao. tell your guys he ain't worth it or whatever the you want. you don't talk to him, you don't go near him. this is your one chance. you lay off and no one will ever be the wiser.
speaker2: i'll take that as a yes. i don't want to come back here. but if i do, believe me, it'll be ugly.

speaker1: how do you want your dog... i mean steaks cooked? medium, medium well? 
speaker2: funny.
speaker1: is this hmoog or laab?
speaker3: laab.
speaker1: isn't it usually a little spicier?
speaker3: oh whatever, wally.
speaker1: it does. usually it's got more zing.
speaker3: christ, look at you. i've never seen you like this.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: look at you smile, old man. kicking back, having a good old time. you're sure pleased with yourself today. 
speaker2: and it's a little unnerving if you ask me.
speaker3: aw, go on.
speaker1: no, admit it. you are. you're feeling pretty good, aren't you?
speaker3: well, who wouldn't? i'm surrounded by beautiful women, it's a beautiful day. great food, good friends. hell, even toad isn't driving me nuts for once.
speaker2: it never ends.
speaker3: i'm just kidding. let me tell you something, yum-yum. if tao doesn't ask you out soon, i will.
speaker1: don't listen to him, wa xam. he's a white devil.
speaker4: i'd love to, walt, but he beat you to it.
speaker3: i'll be movie? dinner?
speaker1: yeah, they're taking the bus.
speaker3: the bus?! that's no good. a charming young lady like this deserves to go in style.

speaker1: like what? take a limo? 
speaker1: the gran torino? you'd let me drive it?
speaker2: sure. why not.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: really.

speaker1: is everyone okay? is anyone hit? sue? vu? tao, where's tao? 
speaker1: oh no.

speaker1: what... what is it? 
speaker2: hang on... you're just cut, is all.
speaker1: is everybody else okay?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it's a miracle no one was killed.
speaker2: they aimed high.
speaker2: where's sue?
speaker1: she went to our aunt's.
speaker2: call her.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i said call her. get the phone and call and see if she's there. tao scrambles for the phone and dials.

speaker1: this is exactly what i didn't want. gooks. why the am i even here? 
speaker2: maybe one of her friends called and she just changed plans.
speaker1: in korea i learned not to care. the best friends of my life are still missing somewhere in korea. you harden yourself. don't let anything get to you.

speaker1: walt staggers across the yard to his house. 
speaker2: no, no, no, no, no.

speaker1: mr. kowalski, are you in here? 
speaker2: come on in.
speaker1: are you okay?
speaker1: the police finally left. no one is talking. one thing about the hmong, they keep their mouths shut.
speaker2: i've noticed that.
speaker2: you know, there's no way that tao or sue are gonna have any peace if these gang guys don't go away. go away forever. you know it as well as i do.
speaker1: what are you saying?

speaker1: you heard what i said. 
speaker2: they took sue to the hospital.
speaker1: i'm not.
speaker2: i know that. believe me, they all know that. tao especially. he's sitting out there staring at your front door. you know what he expects, mr. kowalski.
speaker1: yeah, well what would you do if you were me? if you were tao? what would you do?
speaker2: i know what i'd do if i was you, or at least what you think you should do. if i was tao i guess i'd want vengeance. i'd want to stand shoulder to shoulder with you and kill those guys.
speaker1: and you?
speaker2: what would i do? i'd come over here and talk to you i guess. i know you're close with these people, but this me off too, mr. kowalski.
speaker1: wanna beer?
speaker2: i'd love one.
speaker1: they're in the cooler, grab me one too.

speaker1: all this. it just isn't fair. 
speaker2: nothing's fair, father.
speaker1: so, what are you going to do, mr.
speaker2: call me walt.
speaker1: alright, what are you going to do, walt?
speaker2: not sure yet. all i do know is they don't have a chance.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm thinking.
speaker1: thinking time is over. now it's time to knock the out of those pricks.
speaker2: i know you don't want to hear this, but you have to calm down.
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: you have to have a clear head, otherwise mistakes get made. back away from what's happened, tao. 
speaker2: no. don't let me down, walt. not you. this is going to end, today.
speaker1: sit down.
speaker2: i don't want to sit.
speaker1: i said sit down! just listen up for a second and don't say anything. tao sits down. walt rubs his hands together.
speaker1: i know what needs to be done. i need to prepare, this needs to be carefully planned. you know i'm the right man for this. so cool down for a little while and meet me back here at 4 p.m. i promise you, what needs to be done, will be done.
speaker2: i say we go now. right now.
speaker1: and do what? you want to go kill your cousin and those other zips. mr. tough-guy-all-of-a-sudden is out for blood. what do you even know about it?
speaker1: trust me, tao. cool down and we'll meet back here at four. okay?

speaker1: i said â‘okay?' you won't do anything without me. you meet me back here at four? say â‘okay.' 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: martin finishes cutting walt's hair. 
speaker2: there, all done. ten bucks american.
speaker3: i don't suppose you still have steady enough hands to give a guy a straight shave, you withered, old italian mummy?
speaker2: you? a straight shave? you've never ordered a straight shave, ever.
speaker3: that's right. i always wondered what they were like. unless you're too busy?

speaker1: no, no. that's fine. let me heat up a towel. 
speaker2: here's a twenty. keep the change in case you slip and hit my jugular.

speaker1: so you can take it in right here? 
speaker2: yes, sir. take about an hour.
speaker1: that's great. thank you.
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: never had a fitted suit.

speaker1: walt comes in and father janovich looks up. 
speaker2: mr. kowalski, what can i do for you?
speaker3: i've come for confession.
speaker2: oh lord what have you done?
speaker3: nothing. take it easy.
speaker2: what are you up to?

speaker1: how long has it been since your last confession? 
speaker2: forever. bless me, father, for i have sinned.
speaker1: what are your sins, my son.
speaker2: in 1968, i kissed betty jablonski at the work christmas party. dorothy was talking with the other wives and it just happened.
speaker1: yes. go on.
speaker2: i made nine hundred dollars profit selling a boat and motor and never reported the taxes which is the same as stealing.
speaker1: yes. fine.
speaker2: and lastly, i was never close to my two sons. i don't know them.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: whatta you mean, â‘that's it?' it's bothered me for years.

speaker1: loves and forgives you. say ten â‘hail marys' and five â‘our fathers.' are you going to retaliate for what happened to sue? 
speaker1: i'm going over to that house today, mr. kowalski.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: it is. and every other day until you see the folly in what you are planning.
speaker2: i gotta go, padre. busy day ahead.
speaker1: go in peace.
speaker2: i am at peace.
speaker1: je -- zuz -- christ.

speaker1: which one do i get? 
speaker2: you ever fire a weapon?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: put that down. i got something for you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: in korea, october, 1952. we were sent up to sweep a machine gun nest that had carved us up pretty bad. i was the only one who came back... i received the silver star. i want you to have it.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: when we went up that hill, we knew it was ten to one against us, but we went anyway. this trouble now, it's similar. we're walking right into it. we might not be coming home tonight.
speaker1: the we won't. we're going to roll in there and tear ass.
speaker2: don't be a fool, these guys are waiting for that exact reaction.
speaker1: how many?
speaker2: how many what?
speaker1: how many men did you kill in korea?
speaker2: thirteen for sure. probably more.

speaker1: what was it like to kill a man? 
speaker2: you don't want to know.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: go get the silver star. it's in a blue wooden box in the cellar.

speaker1: what the are you doing?! let me out of here, you son- of-a-bitch!! 
speaker2: quit smashing everything. you'll never get out of there, so just relax.
speaker1: you let me out, you crazy old or i will kill you when i get out of here.
speaker2: you want to know how it feels to kill a man? it feels lousy. and it feels even worse when you get a medal for bravery right after you mowed down some scared kid when he tries to give up. a scared, little gook, just about your age. i shot him with the same rifle you just held upstairs.

speaker1: i've thought about that kid for fifty years. and i promise you, boy, you want no part of it. me, i've got blood on my hands. i'm soiled. forgive me for tricking you like a dope. i'll call someone and have them let you out later. 
speaker2: no! let me out!!
speaker3: you've come a long way. i'm proud to call you a friend. you have your whole life ahead of you, whereas this is what i do. i finish things. you'd just get in the way. sorry.

speaker1: i need you to watch my dog. 
speaker1: her name is daisy.
speaker1: you take it easy, old gal. you good old girl.

speaker1: good afternoon, gentlemen. 
speaker2: walter, how are you doing?
speaker3: never been better.
speaker4: beer and a shot, walt?
speaker1: i think i'll have something different.
speaker1: think i'll try that johnnie walker blue label.

speaker1: whatta ya win the lottery, wally? 
speaker2: naw, just having something special.
speaker2: why don't you get all the guys the same.
speaker3: you sure?
speaker2: i'm sure. this is too good not to be shared.

speaker1: sue weakly answers the phone next to her bed. 
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: it's walt. the key to my front door is under the ceramic turtle. open the door and go let your brother out of the cellar. i have to go.

speaker1: sorry, father, we have to go. 
speaker2: i'm telling you. if we're not here, there will be bloodshed.
speaker1: we've been here for hours. we can't afford to anchor a unit to one location.
speaker2: i'm begging you to stay.
speaker1: i just got word from my sergeant, we're pulling the plug.
speaker2: i'm staying.
speaker1: no you aren't. my orders are specific. you came with us, you're leaving with us.
speaker3: what a mess. you slopes should be ashamed of yourselves.

speaker1: is that all you swamp rats or is there more vermin scurrying in the shadows? 
speaker2: i wasn't sure that you'd...
speaker1: shut up, gook. i'm not here to listen to one syllable of what a shrimp-dicked little baby midget like you has to say.
speaker1: that's right, boy. defend your boyfriend after he or you or whoever rapes a member of your family. your own blood, for christ's sake. go ahead, pull your pistols, just like a bunch of ridiculous miniature toy cowboys.
speaker1: you have no honor. you're the scum of the earth and when you're gone, do you think anyone will care? no one will mourn. you won't be missed.
speaker2: where's tao, old man? he too scared to come and stick up for himself?

speaker1: no. tao is too good for this. you pukes aren't worth one second of his time. 
speaker1: you boys are a little bit jumpy.
speaker2: you watch it, old man.
speaker1: no, i think you'd better watch it.

speaker1: it! 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker1: he left without me!
speaker2: where? where'd he go?!
speaker1: he went to smokie's without me.

speaker1: no! no, tao! 
speaker1: no! don't you dare! stay away from them, tao! i don't want anyone else getting hurt.
speaker2: leave me alone.

speaker1: anybody got a light? no? i got one. 
speaker1: hail mary, full of grace.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: you have to step back.
speaker1: he was a friend of mine.
speaker2: i said step back.
speaker1: what happened, man?
speaker3: you heard him, step back.
speaker1: please, man, it's important. he's my friend. tell me what happened?
speaker3: the old guy reaches for a lighter and they gunned him down. the gang said the old guy was here to kill them, but he didn't have a weapon.
speaker1: what's going to happen?

speaker1: we actually have witnesses for once. these guys are going away big time. 
speaker2: officer chang, get those people back.
speaker1: yes, sir. you have to step back now.

speaker1: which brings us to our last item. and again, please forgive the language used in mr. kowalski's will. i'm simply reading it as it was written. 
speaker1: â‘and to my friend, tao vang lor, i leave my 1972 gran torino on the condition that you don't choptop the roof like a spick, don't paint any idiotic flames on it like some white-trash hillbilly and don't put a big gay spoiler on the rear-end like you see on all the other zipper heads' cars. it just looks like hell. if you can refrain from doing any of that, it's yours.

