speaker1: come on! 
speaker2: bul?
speaker2: where you goin?
speaker1: we gotta go!
speaker1: bye, denver. you take care.
speaker2: bye? bul?
speaker2: no..bul...
speaker2: now what you go and do that for?

speaker1: ya know what i'd love to see? i loved to see me some lavender. you got any lavender? or even pink - pink'll do. 
speaker2: no. sorry.
speaker1: ah, winter in ohio is especially rough if you've got an appetite for color.
speaker2: oh wait...
speaker1: oh, that's fine. fine.
speaker1: they'll be all right. i'm surprised they lasted here this long.
speaker2: i don't know. maybe we should have moved.
speaker1: what'd be the point? not a house in the country ain't packed to the rafters with some dead negro's grief. we lucky our ghost is a baby. my husband spirit come back? or yours? don't talk to me! ha..you lucky. you got one child left, still pullin at your skirts. be thankful. i had eight. eight with six fathers. every one of them gone from me. four taken, four chased and all, i expect, worrying somebody's house into evil. my first born - alls i can remember of her now is how she loved the burned bottom of bread. her little hands..i wouldn't know'em if they slapped me. can you beat that? eight children and that's all i remember.

speaker1: you remember halle. 
speaker2: oh, i remember bits and pieces of all of'em i guess..halle, of course..i had halle a lifetime. almost twenty years... my two girls, sold and gone before i could even a heard about it, and them without their grown up teeth yet. my third child, my son after halle...i let that straw boss have me for four months so's i could keep that boy. next year, he had him traded for lumber anyway and me pregnant with his child. i couldn't love that child. i wouldn't. not any of the rest either. take what he would....and he did...
speaker1: the boys wouldn't have left if halle were here.
speaker2: those boys didn't even know him. you had six whole years of marriage to my halle fathered every one of your children. a blessing. i learned hard that a man's just a man, but a son like that...like halle..now that's somebody.
speaker1: just got a few more things to do, then i'll start supper.

speaker1: mama? 
speaker2: what is it baby?
speaker1: you think maybe when daddy comes, he could talk to the baby ghost. maybe make her behave and then people won't be scared of here no more.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: why won't she ever settle?
speaker2: she's mad like a baby gets mad. you forgetting how little it is. she wasn't even two years old when she died. too little to understand.
speaker1: for a baby she throws a powerful spell.
speaker2: no more powerful than the way i loved her. hearing her mother say this, moves denver.
speaker1: what do you pray for mama?
speaker2: oh, i don't really pray anymore. i just talk.
speaker1: about what?
speaker2: oh, about time. how some things go. pass on. some things just stay.
speaker1: what things?
speaker2: like, the place i was at before here - sweet home. even if that whole farm and every tree and blade of grass on it died - it'll still be there. waiting. and if you go and stand in the place where it was, what happened there once, will happen again.
speaker1: if it's still there, waiting, that mean nothing ever dies?
speaker2: nothing ever does. that's why i had to get my children out. no matter what.
speaker1: you never tell me all what happened. just that they whipped you and you run off pregnant with me.
speaker2: you don't need to know nothing else.
speaker1: i saw a white dress kneeling next to you when you was praying.
speaker2: white? maybe it was my bedding dress.
speaker1: had a high neck. whole mess of buttons coming down the back.
speaker2: buttons. well, that's not my bedding dress. i never had a button on nothing.
speaker1: a bunch at the back. on the sit down part.
speaker2: a bustle?
speaker1: i don't know what it's called.
speaker2: you say it was holding on to me. how?
speaker1: kneeling next to you while you were praying. i mean, talking. it looked just like you.
speaker2: well, i'll be.
speaker1: i think it was a sign. i think maybe baby's got plans.
speaker2: what plans?
speaker1: i don't know, but that dress holding onto you got to mean something.
speaker2: maybe. maybe it does.
speaker1: she's crawling again.

speaker1: paul? paul d.? is that you? 
speaker2: what's left.
speaker1: you looking good.
speaker2: devil's confusion. he lets me look good long as i feel bad.
speaker1: how long has it been?
speaker2: 'bout eighteen years, i figure.
speaker1: eighteen years.
speaker2: and i swear i been walking every one of them. mind if i join you?
speaker1: you want to soak them? let me get you some water.
speaker2: no, uh, uh. can't baby feet. a whole more tramping they got to do yet.
speaker1: you're not leaving right away, are you?
speaker2: well, long enough to see baby suggs, you..where is she?
speaker1: dead.
speaker2: aw no. when?
speaker1: eight years now. almost nine.
speaker2: was it hard? i hope she didn't die hard.
speaker1: soft as cream. being alive was the hard part. sorry you missed her though. is that what you came by for?
speaker2: that's some of what i came for. the rest is you.
speaker2: the truth be known, i go anywhere these days. anywhere they let me sit down.
speaker1: come on inside.
speaker2: porch is fine. cool out here. sit with me.
speaker2: so baby suggs is gone. somehow never thought death would find her.
speaker1: it finds everyone.
speaker2: we managed well enough without meeting it.
speaker1: i suppose.
speaker1: i wouldn't have to ask about him, would i?...you'd tell me if there was anything to tell, wouldn't you?
speaker2: you know i would. but i don't know any more about what happened to halle now than i did then.
speaker2: you must think he's still alive.
speaker1: no. i think he's dead. it's just not being sure that keeps him alive.
speaker2: what did baby suggs think?
speaker1: same. ha, listen to her, all her children dead and she felt each one go the very day and hour it happened.
speaker2: when she say halle went?
speaker1: 1855. same day my baby was born.
speaker2: you had that baby, did you? damn, never thought you'd make it. running off pregnant.
speaker1: had to. couldn't be no waiting.
speaker2: all by yourself too.
speaker1: almost. a white girl helped me.
speaker2: then she helped herself, bless her.
speaker1: we got spare rooms. you could stay the night, if you had a mind to.
speaker2: you don't sound too steady in the offer.
speaker1: oh it's..it's truly meant. i just hope you'll pardon my house.
speaker2: my house. i like the sound of that.

speaker1: you got company? 
speaker2: on and off.
speaker1: good what kind of evil you got in there?
speaker2: it's not evil..it's just..just sad. come on. just step through.

speaker1: i thought you said she died soft as cream. 
speaker2: oh that's not baby suggs. that's my daughter. the one i sent ahead with the boys before i run off.
speaker1: she didn't live?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: the boys too?
speaker2: no, they alive - they run off before baby suggs died. the one i was carrying when i left sweet home is all i got left.
speaker1: well, probably best..if a boy got legs he ought to use them. sit down too long, somebody figure out a way to tie them up....... you by yourself then?
speaker2: me and denver... my daughter.
speaker1: no man? and that's all right by you?
speaker2: it's all right by me...i cook at a restaurant in town. sew a little on the sly....
speaker2: you look more done in by a walk through my front hall than all those eighteen years of walking put together.
speaker1: got that right.

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker2: won't you stay a little while? can't nobody catch up on eighteen years in a day.
speaker2: baby, this here's paul d. garner...paul, this is my denver...paul's the last of the sweet home men. denver's heart sinks.
speaker3: good morning miss denver. it's a pleasure.
speaker1: good morning, mr. d.
speaker3: garner, baby. paul d. garner.
speaker1: yes sir.
speaker3: glad to get a look at you. last time i saw your mama, you were pushing out the front of her dress. she's a fine looking young lady, sethe. fine looking. got her daddy's sweet face.
speaker1: you knew my father?
speaker3: knew him. knew him well.
speaker2: of course he did. i told you, he's from sweet home. paul may stay with us a while. won't that be nice, having an old friend stay a spell?
speaker3: if that's all right with you, that is?
speaker1: we have a ghost here, you know.
speaker3: we met. but sad, your mama said. not evil.
speaker1: no sir, not evil. but not sad either.
speaker3: what then?
speaker1: lonely.
speaker2: i don't see how it could be lonely spending every minute with us like it does.
speaker1: it's my sister. she was just a baby when she died in this house.
speaker3: reminds me of that headless bride back behind sweet home. remember that sethe?
speaker1: mama doesn't like talk about sweet home. says it was never sweet and it sure wasn't home.
speaker2: girl, mind yourself!
speaker3: now, now, she got it right there, sethe.
speaker2: but it's where we were. all together. it's where i met your father. and it comes back on us whether we want it to or not....
speaker1: then why don't you ever tell me about it?
speaker2: denver, start up the stove. paul must be hungry.
speaker3: don't go to no trouble on my account.
speaker2: bread's no trouble. the rest i brought back from where i work. least i can do, cooking dawn to noon, is bring dinner home. you got any objections to pike?
speaker3: if he don't object to me i don't object to him.
speaker1: where's he going to sleep? baby sugg's room got no sheets or nothing.
speaker2: we'll figure it out.
speaker1: maybe you should stay with mama, mr. garner. then you two can talk about sweet home all night long.
speaker2: what's the matter with you! i never knew you to behave like this!
speaker3: leave her be, sethe. i'm a stranger to her.
speaker2: that's just it. she got no cause to act up with a stranger.
speaker2: baby, what is it? did something happen?
speaker1: i can't no more! i can't no more!
speaker2: can't what? what can't you?
speaker1: i can't live here! i don't know where to go or what to do but i can't live here. nobody speaks to us. nobody comes by. nobody even knows i'm alive.
speaker3: what she talking about 'nobody speaks to you'?
speaker2: it's the house. people don't...
speaker1: it's not! it's not the house! it's us!
speaker2: denver!
speaker3: leave off, sethe. it's hard for a young girl living in a haunted place. that can't be easy.
speaker2: it's easier than some other things. come here, baby..
speaker3: i'm a grown man with nothing new left to see or do and i'm telling you it' ain't easy. maybe you oughta move.
speaker2: no!
speaker3: sethe!
speaker2: no. no moving. no leaving. it's all right the way it is.
speaker3: you going to tell me it's all right with this child half out of her mind.
speaker3: what tree, sethe?
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: what tree on your back? i don't see nothing growing on your back.
speaker2: it's there all the same.
speaker3: who told you that?
speaker2: white girl. that's what she called it. i never seen it and never will. but she said that's what it looked like. a chokecherry tree. leaves, branches. that was 18 years ago. could have cherries by now for all i know...
speaker3: i don't follow.
speaker2: i had milk, see. i was pregnant with denver but i had milk for my baby girl that i sent ahead with the boys. i hadn't stopped nursing her when i sent her and the boys ahead of me. anybody could smell me long before they saw me. nothing i could do about it. all i knew is i had to get my milk to my little girl. nobody was going to nurse her like me. nobody was going to get it to her fast enough or take it away when she had enough..nobody knew she couldn't pass her air if you held her up on your shoulder, only if she was lying on your knee..nobody knew that but me...
speaker3: we was talking about a tree, sethe.
speaker2: schoolteacher's boys drag me into the barn and took my milk... ....yet, the images come anyway.

speaker1: ..held me down in that barn and took it. 
speaker1: they were like boulders on me. their hands over my mouth and on my shoulders and my legs.

speaker1: i told mrs. garner on them. she had that lump on her neck and couldn't speak but her eyes rolled out tears, i remember. them boys found out i told on 'em and schoolteacher made one open up my back, and when it closed it made a tree. 
speaker2: they used cowhide on you?
speaker1: and they took my milk.
speaker2: they beat you and you was pregnant?
speaker1: and they took my milk!
speaker2: aw lord, girl.
speaker2: it! hush up! leave this place alone! get the outta here!

speaker1: why don't you...take a rest..i'll call you when we're ready. 
speaker2: sure you don't want me to help clean up?
speaker1: no..you'd just get in my way. denver and me'll do it.

speaker1: how's this? 
speaker2: here?! out in the open?!
speaker1: look around - can you see anybody?
speaker1: then nothing can see us neither.
speaker1: you are a beautiful sight.
speaker2: don't talk stupid.
speaker1: you're my wife now! i can talk as stupid as i like about you! i ain't never loved nothing like you before, sethe. and after i get mama out...then i get us out too. and you'll see, baby girl... we're gonna have us a liiife..
speaker2: you sure nobody can see?

speaker1: i can't see nothing so special about halle. 
speaker2: what about what he's doing for his mama?
speaker1: fool thing, if you ask me. by the time he buys it, freedom won't mean a thing to somebody that old and worn.
speaker3: freedom mean something anytime it come.

speaker1: raccoon must've got into my corn. damaged a few so, no use throwing them out... 
speaker1: sethe, get the butter there.
speaker2: you spoil these boys.
speaker3: maybe you got boys on your farm. my nigger's are men. not a boy among'em.
speaker2: beg to differ garner. ain't no men.
speaker3: not if you scared. but if you a man yourself, you'll want your to be men too.
speaker2: wouldn't have no men around my wife.
speaker3: neither would i..neither would i.

speaker1: sethe. i was thinking of looking for work around here. what do you think? 
speaker2: ain't much. river mostly. and hogs.
speaker1: hogs is fine.
speaker1: i don't need much, sethe. eat, sleep, sing a little when it strikes me. i don't ask for more to..to live somewhere.
speaker2: all right. it's...it's fine with me.
speaker1: your girl denver. seems she's of a different mind.
speaker2: don't worry about her. she's a charmed child. nothing ever touch her too bad. from the beginning. everybody i knew dead or gone, but not her. you got to know something, though - this here ain't no better life. it's just not that other one. what i do here - all i ever do - is keep denver from that other..so if you stay, there's no more talk about sweet home or anything else. i won't let the past in my yard again. getting me and denver through this here life is all that matters. you understand?
speaker1: dangerous to love anything that much, sethe. best thing is to love everything just a little bit..that way, when it breaks or runs off or gets taken, well maybe you'd have a little love left over for the next one.
speaker2: don't be asking me to choose, paul d.
speaker1: that's the whole point. i'm not asking you to choose. just want to know if there's some space for me. want to know if it's more than "you can stay", "it's fine"..more like, "i want you here paul".
speaker2: maybe we should leave things the way they are.
speaker1: how are they?
speaker2: we get along.
speaker1: what about inside?
speaker2: i don't go inside.
speaker1: sethe, if i'm here with you, with denver, you can go anywhere you want. jump, if you want to, 'cause i'll catch you. go as far inside as you need - i'll hold your ankles. make sure you get back out. i'm not saying this because i need a place to stay. i told you, i'm a walking man, but i been heading in this direction for seven years. when i got here and sat out there on the porch, waiting for you, well, i knew it wasn't the place i was heading toward. it was you. we can make a life girl. a life.
speaker2: i don't know. i don't know.
speaker1: leave it to me. see how it goes. no promises, if you don't want to make any. just see how it goes, all right?
speaker2: all right. we'll see how it goes.
speaker1: you willing to leave it to me?
speaker2: well..some of it.
speaker1: some?...well okay...some.
speaker3: what is it? what's wrong?
speaker2: nothing. nothing's wrong. lay back down. denver obeys, unsure.
speaker3: you think baby ghost's really gone?
speaker2: don't know.
speaker3: i miss her.
speaker3: i do. baby suggs told me baby ghost would never hurt me. she was my sister. when i was little, after the boys left, i used to think that she and me both were waiting for daddy to come. and once he did, she wouldn't be mad no more.
speaker3: wish he'd shut-up...he's ruined everything.
speaker2: no, he hasn't. he won't. he..he wants to takes us to the carnival next thursday...
speaker3: you mean, go out where they'll be other people?
speaker2: dress up a little bit. wear our hats.
speaker3: maybe....
speaker2: maybe...all right...all right. can i ask you something? i was wondrin'..what you think about us...maybe... maybe thinking we could start...if we got an idea to, thinking we could start.. countin' on...
speaker3: on what mama? countin' on what?
speaker2: something.

speaker1: hey denver!...hi there denver! 
speaker2: all pickaninnies free!!
speaker3: two pennies and an insult well spent in my opinion to see the spectacle of whitefolks making a spectacle of themselves.
speaker3: mind if i take a sip?

speaker1: you from around here? 
speaker2: those shoes look brand new.
speaker1: what might your name be? the young woman speaks in a low, rough voice;
speaker3: beloved.
speaker2: beloved. you use a last name, beloved?
speaker3: last. no..just beloved..

speaker1: that's a pretty name beloved. take off your hat and i'll make us something. we just got back from the carnival over near cincinnati- 
speaker2: miss...miss, you want to lay down?
speaker3: i'll take her up. she can sleep in baby suggs room - that all right mama?
speaker1: course.
speaker2: sounds like the croup.
speaker1: is she feverish, denver?
speaker3: no. she's cold.
speaker1: then she is. fever goes from hot to cold.
speaker2: could have the cholera.
speaker3: she's not sick!

speaker1: beloved? beloved i'm here...what is it? 
speaker2: heavy..this place is heavy.
speaker1: would you like to sit up?

speaker1: ..then you fold it over like this see. this here used to be where my brothers and me slept. i was always at the top. 
speaker2: how you get so smart?
speaker1: i ain't so smart.
speaker2: yes you are!
speaker1: well, i used to go to lady jones. she'd teach us with songs how to spell and count.
speaker2: you don't go no more?
speaker1: no i...i had to stop going.
speaker2: you so smart. tell me about your brothers.
speaker1: well..they're names were howard and..
speaker1: ..and....and bulgar...at night, we used to..crawl into bed together..i'd lay down on bul's lap and howard would tell us die- witch stories. he said they would protect us...and if i learned them, they would protect me if ever they were gone...
speaker3: you gonna just feed her, from now on?
speaker4: denver likes her. she's no real trouble.
speaker3: but don't she have a home? some place to go?
speaker4: didn't mention one. i thought we'd wait until her breathing got better. she still sounds a little lumbar.
speaker3: she breathe like she can eat, she could blow this whole house down. and all those sweets.
speaker4: sometimes the body needs that sugar for strength when it's trying to recover after an illness.
speaker3: but that's just it. she don't seem sick. something funny about her.
speaker4: funny? how?
speaker3: acts sick, sounds sick but she don't look sick. good skin, bright hands and strong as a bull.
speaker4: she can hardly walk without holding onto something.
speaker3: that's what i mean. can't walk but i passed by baby sugg's room this morning and saw her lifting the rocker with one hand.
speaker4: you didn't?
speaker3: don't tell me. ask denver. she was right there.
speaker4: denver. come in here a minute.
speaker4: paul says you saw beloved pick up the rocking chair in baby suggs room with one hand. that so?
speaker1: i didn't see no such thing.

speaker1: have you seen her? i can't find her. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: beloved.

speaker1: she need a marker. somethin' to tell me where she is. but i ain't got no money. 
speaker2: what you got then?
speaker2: what you want it to say?
speaker1: i was thinking what the preacher say at the funeral. dearly beloved.

speaker1: oh!...i didn't know you were there. 
speaker2: can i help?
speaker1: help what, honey?
speaker2: where you go in the morning?
speaker1: work. i work in a restaurant.
speaker2: what time you go?
speaker1: little after the sun come up. i like to make a loaf of bread before i go. how you feelin'?
speaker1: you remember your mother at all?
speaker2: i remember a woman who was mine and i remember bein snatched away from her.

speaker1: where your diamonds? 
speaker2: diamonds? what would i be doing with diamonds?
speaker1: on your ears.
speaker2: wish i did. hmm..come to think of it, i had some crystal once. a present from mrs. garner - woman i worked for at sweet home.
speaker3: i never saw you with no earrings.
speaker2: gone. long gone.
speaker1: tell me...tell me about your diamonds... sethe hesitates. beloved kneels at her feet.
speaker3: ma'am don't talk about sweet home.
speaker2: well..this lady i worked for in kentucky gave them to me when i got married..
speaker2: ..what they called married back then. i remember going up to her in the kitchen to tell her. i'd help her make ink for mr. garner in the kitchen. i was fool enough to think i was going have some kind of ceremony...maybe even a new dress..

speaker1: best unbraid that hair. 
speaker2: tomorrow.
speaker1: today's always here. tomorrow never.
speaker2: it hurts.
speaker1: comb it everyday, it won't..
speaker3: your woman never fixed up your hair?
speaker4: what?
speaker1: my woman?..you mean my mother?
speaker1: if she did i don't remember. i don't think i saw her but a few times.
speaker3: tell me 'bout her.
speaker1: ..i remember once, she picked me up and carried me behind the smokehouse... the only thing i do remember in fact...
speaker1: ...she opened up her dress and right on her rib, right here, was a circle and a cross burnt right into the skin....
speaker4: sethe.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: any more beans?
speaker1: ...anyway, she points to this mark and says to me "this is your ma'am. i am the only one whose got this mark now. the rest all dead. if something happens to me and you can't tell me by my face, you can know me by this mark"..scared me so... i couldn't think of anything to say so i said "yes ma'am..but how will you know us? mark me too. mark the mark on me too."
speaker2: did she?
speaker1: no. she slapped my face. i didn't understand it then. not until i had a mark of my own...
speaker3: what happened to her?
speaker1: don't know. everybody done?
speaker4: well, as long as we're all asking questions, getting to know each other.. why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself?
speaker2: she don't remember nothing.
speaker4: you be surprised what you start remembering once you start talking.
speaker3: can i have some more pudding?

speaker1: that's your mama - right there. 
speaker1: ..i'm telling you, small girl sethe...me and your mama was taken by the men many times..she threw them other babies away..the others from the whites, without names, she threw them away..but you she gave the name of the black man. she had her arms around him, child. the others, she did not put her arms around. never...never...

speaker1: ain't you got no brothers or sisters? 
speaker2: i don't have nobody.
speaker3: she has us now!
speaker1: you been here five weeks, we still don't know nothing bout you..
speaker4: paul, stop it. denver bring those dishes.
speaker1: what was you looking for when you came here?
speaker2: this place. i was looking for this place i could be in.
speaker1: somebody tell you about this place?
speaker2: she told me. when i was at the bridge, she told me.
speaker4: must be somebody from the old days.
speaker1: how'd you come? who brought you?
speaker2: i walked here. a long, long, long, long way. nobody bring me.
speaker1: you had new shoes. if you walked so long why don't your shoes show it?
speaker4: paul d. stop picking on her.
speaker1: i want to know! where'd you get them shoes and that dress you had on?
speaker2: i take the shoes! i take the dress! the shoe strings don't fit! i...
speaker4: you all right?
speaker2: i want to go to sleep now.
speaker3: come to my room. i can watch out for you up there.
speaker4: what's the matter with you?
speaker1: i don't understand what the hold is. it's clear why she holds onto you, but i just can't see why you holding on to her.
speaker4: what you care who's holding on to who? feeding her is no trouble. and she's nice company for denver.
speaker1: we was just starting to feel a little like a family ourselves.
speaker4: is that what's got your teeth on edge?
speaker1: i can't place it. it's a feeling in me.
speaker4: you wanna feel somethin!? ... feel how it is to have a bed to sleep in and somebody there not worrying you to death about what you got to do each day to deserve it. and if that don't get it, feel how it feels to be a colored woman roaming the roads with anything made liable to jump on you. feel that!
speaker1: i know every bit of that, sethe. i wasn't born yesterday and i never mistreated a woman in my life!
speaker4: well, that makes one of you in this world.
speaker1: one? not two.
speaker4: no. not two!
speaker1: what halle ever do to you? halle stood by you. he never left you.
speaker4: ha, what'd he leave then if not me, huh?
speaker1: i don't know but it wasn't you. that's a fact.
speaker4: then he did worse - he left his children.
speaker1: you don't know that.
speaker4: he wasn't there! he wasn't where he said he would be! i had to pack my babies off ahead of me, on their own, so i could stay behind to look for him...underground agent said by sunday we had to leave.. sunday came and he wasn't there.
speaker1: he couldn't get out of the loft, i expect. forgetting himself, paul let that slip out.
speaker4: loft? what loft?
speaker1: the one over your head... the one in the barn. sethe stops dead cold. it's no use...

speaker1: he saw? he told you he saw? 
speaker2: you told me. the day i came here. you said they stole your milk. i never knew what messed halle up. that was it, i guess. i seen him the day after you left. says where you been halle? all he says to me was "the loft". i asked him what he meant not going with you but he never answers me. but i knew was something broke him. not one of them years of saturdays, sundays and nighttime extra never touched him. but whatever he saw go on in the barn that day broke him like a twig.
speaker1: he saw them boys do that to me and let them keep on breathing?
speaker2: a man ain't a ax, sethe. chopping, hacking, busting every minute of the day. things get to him. things he can't chop down cause they inside him. the last time i saw him, i knew he was broken for good...
speaker1: what did he say?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: what did you say? didn't you say anything to him?
speaker2: i couldn't.
speaker1: couldn't?! why the not?!

speaker1: i tried to kill brandywine - man 
speaker2: look at mister there... you go tell these where to go there mister! crow'em right outta here! mister crows and the white men laugh.

speaker1: i didn't mean to tell you that. 
speaker2: i didn't plan on hearing it.
speaker1: i can't take it back but i can leave it alone.
speaker1: let's do that..let's leave it alone now.
speaker2: let it alone. just sit down and leave it be! yeah that would be nice. would be even nicer to lose it altogether - if i had my choice. halle did. other people's brains stopped, went crazy. how sweet that would have been. me and halle squatting by that churn, smashing cold lumpy butter in our faces, not a care in the world..
speaker1: sethe, don't do this..
speaker2: what a relief to just stop it all right there, huh?!! close it shut! squeeze that butter...but i had three children on their way to ohio and nothing would have changed that! and you tell me he didn't leave me!!
speaker1: guess she's feeling better, huh?

speaker1: where'd you learn to dance? 
speaker2: nowhere. look at me do this!
speaker2: now you! come on! come on!
speaker1: why you call yourself beloved?
speaker2: in the dark my name is beloved.
speaker1: what's it like where you were before?
speaker2: dark. i'm small in that place. i'm like this here.
speaker1: were you cold?
speaker2: hot. nothing to breathe there. no room to move.
speaker1: how did you get here?
speaker2: i wait; then i got on the bridge. i stay there in the dark, in the daytime, in the dark in the daytime. long time.
speaker1: all this time you were on the bridge?
speaker2: no. after. when i got out.
speaker1: why'd you come here?
speaker2: to see her face.
speaker1: ma'am's? sethe's?
speaker2: yes. sethe.
speaker1: you my sister, ain't you? you really are.
speaker1: you won't leave us, will you?
speaker2: no. never. this is where i am.
speaker1: i knew it. i knew. first time i saw you and you said your name. and when you touched me - real gentle. and familiar. like i'd felt that touch before.
speaker1: don't tell mama. you musn't tell her who you really are. i don't know what she'd do! please, you hear?
speaker2: don't tell me what to do? don't never tell me what to do!?
speaker1: but..but i'm on your side. i want to protect you...
speaker1: no. beloved please! don't go! i didn't do nothing! we were dancing! don't go!....

speaker1: ..god lead you home... so now, lay'em down, child. sword and shield..don't study war no more. lay all that mess down. sword and shield... 
speaker2: lay'em down...sword and shield.

speaker1: look there. a nigger. if that don't beat all... sethe can not speak for fear. 
speaker1: man, you 'bout the scariest looking something i ever seen. what you doing back up here?
speaker2: running.
speaker1: them the feet you running on? my my...
speaker2: am i in ohio?
speaker1: ohio! fool girl - you in kentucky. you 'bout a thousand miles from ohio.
speaker2: i'm still in kentucky.
speaker1: you got anything on you, gal, pass for food?
speaker2: no, ma'am.
speaker1: i like to die i'm so hungry. thought there might be huckleberries. that's why i come up here. you having a baby?
speaker2: i expect this baby ma'am is gonna die in these wild onions.
speaker1: well, i got to eat something.
speaker2: where you on your way to, miss?
speaker1: boston. get me some velvet. it's a store called wilson. i seen pictures and they have the prettiest velvet.
speaker2: boston - is that far?
speaker1: farther than ohio.
speaker2: must be velvet closer by.
speaker1: not like in boston. be so pretty on me.
speaker2: if i did, i didn't know it. what's it like?
speaker1: what they call you?
speaker2: lu.
speaker1: what you gonna do, just lay there and foal?
speaker2: i can't get up.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i can't get up. amy wipes her nose and looks up beyond sethe.
speaker1: there's a house back yonder. well, not a house with people in it - more like a lean-to near the river.
speaker2: how far?
speaker1: make a difference, does it? you stay here, snake might get you.
speaker2: well, he may come but i can't stand up, let alone walk...and help me, i can't crawl.
speaker1: sure you can lu..come on..

speaker1: never know it to look at me but i used to be a good size. nice arms, everything. that was before they put me in the root cellar... 
speaker1: ...mama worked for these people here to pay for her passage but then she had me and died right after so i had to work for'em.. i was fishing off the beaver once and a floated right by me. i don't like drowned people, do you? your feet remind me of him. all swole like.
speaker1: you all back here. gal you a mess. undo your dress - let me see.
speaker1: lord, i ain't never seen a poorer excuse for a-
speaker1: jesus...it's a tree lu..a chokecherry tree. i had me some whippings but i don't remember nothing like this. glad i ain't you.. what have in mind i wonder. ...you thank your maker i come along. spiderwebs all i can do for you. what's in here ain't enough. i'll look outside...maybe i ought to break them blossoms open and let the pus run.. that you ain't dead yet lu's a miracle. make you a bet..you make it through the night, you make it all the way...

speaker1: don't up and die on me in the night, you hear me lu? i don't want to see your ugly face hankering over me. if you do die, just go on off somewhere where i can't see you, hear? 
speaker2: i'll do what i can, miss.

speaker1: cause of me, you up and walking. see, - lu made it through..i'm good at sick things, ain't i? 
speaker2: yeah, you good...
speaker1: what's that all over your dress?
speaker2: milk..got to get my milk to my baby girl.
speaker1: you got another baby waiting for you?
speaker2: i think this one is dead.
speaker1: you hungry?
speaker2: i ain't nothing but in a hurry, miss. got to meet someone...help bring me and my milk to my baby girl...
speaker1: you want shoes?
speaker2: say what?
speaker1: i figured how...

speaker1: looking at you, girl! 
speaker1: what you doing that for!? ain't you got a brain in your head? stop that right now! i said stop it, lu. you the dumbest thing on this here earth, lu!..lu!
speaker1: oh i'm awful sorry 'bout the braggin...i need you here now..come on jesus...don't be getting lost on me now.
speaker1: daddies never around 'cept for the fun part. biggest joke made on woman was giving men the planters 'stead of the soil...!! push!

speaker1: my lord...she's never gonna know who i am. you gonna tell her? who brought her into this world. you better tell her, you hear! you say miss amy denver. of boston. 
speaker2: that's pretty. denver. real pretty.

speaker1: headin cross? 
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: anybody know you coming?
speaker2: yes sir. my mother-in-law over in...
speaker1: take off that coat?
speaker3: why?
speaker1: you heard me? the boy slips out of his jacket, complaining.
speaker3: what am i gonna wear?
speaker1: you want it back...
speaker1: ..then you go head and take it off this baby. and if you can do that, then go 'way somewhere and don't come back.

speaker1: wait here. somebody be here directly. 
speaker2: thank you. what's your name - so i can remember you right.
speaker1: name's stamp. stamp paid. watch out for that baby, you hear?

speaker1: saw the sign a while ago but i couldn't get here no quicker. 
speaker2: what sign?
speaker3: stamp always leave the old sty open when there's a crossing. knots a white rag on the post if it's a child too. my name's ella..where you headed?
speaker2: my mother-in-law's. name's baby suggs. she got my other three children i sent ahead.
speaker3: when was this one born?
speaker2: yesterday. i hope she makes it.
speaker3: hard to say. let's try to get these on your feet.

speaker1: oh my lord...my sweet lord thank you. 
speaker1: where's halle?
speaker2: he wasn't there.
speaker1: well, he be along presently, i'm sure.
speaker2: where are the children?
speaker1: not now. you too ugly looking to wake 'em up in the night. first we get you well..

speaker1: you feel this? 
speaker2: feel what?
speaker1: nothing..
speaker1: girl...

speaker1: already crawling - ain't that somethin? ..come on, baby girl..right this way..mama's waiting.. 
speaker2: pappie come?
speaker3: soon.
speaker1: all right boys - mama's home now, you be seeing her all the time..go downstairs and get your supper...go on...
speaker1: nothing worth saving here.
speaker3: oh wait..look and see if there's something knotted up in the petticoat. wedding present. from mrs. garner.
speaker1: be nice if there was a groom to go with it. what do you think happened to him?
speaker3: i don't know. he wasn't where he said to meet him at. i had to get out. i had to. he'll make it. if i made it, halle sure can.
speaker1: whatever happens now...god lead you home. so now lay'em down sethe...sword and shield..don't study war no more. lay all that mess down. sword and shield...

speaker1: paul? paul, you home?... 
speaker2: where else would i be on a sunday off?
speaker2: why don't you come on in here?
speaker1: paul d. what if the girls came in?
speaker2: i don't hear nobody.
speaker1: i have to cook.
speaker2: what you gonna cook?
speaker1: i thought i'd make some snap beans.
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker1: fry up a little corn?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: oh paul...
speaker2: i'm right here baby.
speaker1: thank you lord.

speaker1: you have brothers or sisters? 
speaker2: we don't talk about that.
speaker1: sethe told us you been walking for eighteen years. where you been all that time?
speaker2: lots of places. i don't remember them all. don't remember much about anything.
speaker1: you be surprised what you start remembering once you start talking.
speaker2: well not me. what's gone is gone. no good come from bringing it back.

speaker1: paul?..paul? 
speaker2: mmmm. what?...
speaker1: i called you two or three times but i gave up round midnight. i thought maybe you went out somewhere.
speaker2: i'm sorry honey...
speaker1: i'll make some breakfast - you get yourself washed up.

speaker1: breakfast? want some breakfast nigger? 
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: hungry nigger?
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: here you go.

speaker1: what do you want in here? 
speaker2: i want you to touch me on the inside part and call me my name.
speaker1: when good people take you in and treat you good, you ought to try to be good back. you don't....sethe loves you. much as her own daughter. you know that.
speaker2: she don't love me like i love her. i don't love nobody but her.
speaker1: then what you come in here for?
speaker2: i want you to touch me on the inside part.
speaker1: ever since you come here - feel like i got a new devil to face.
speaker2: you have to touch me. on the inside part. and you have to call me my name.
speaker1: ain't no chains on me no more. i don't have to do nothing...now, go back in that house and go to bed.
speaker2: call me my name.
speaker1: no. ain't no chains on me...
speaker2: call me.
speaker1: ...ain't no chains on me...
speaker2: i'll go if you say it.
speaker1: beloved.

speaker1: look here sethe..you ain't gonna like what i got to say but i got to say it...see, it's not the..a man can't...what i mean is, it ain't really me..see, it ain't weakness, the kind of weakness i can fight, that girl is doing it. i know you think i never liked her nohow, still don't, but she is doing it to me anyway. fixing me, sethe, she's fixed me and i can't break it... 
speaker2: man, you make me feel like a young girl, you coming by to pick me up after work. nobody ever did that before. better watch out, i might start looking forward to it.
speaker2: got to rinse this out.
speaker2: you get off early or what?
speaker1: i took off early.
speaker2: anything the matter?
speaker1: in a way of speaking.
speaker2: not cut back?
speaker1: no, no. they got plenty of work with them pigs..more they can handle. i just.. you ain't gonna like what i'm about to say, sethe.
speaker2: well say it, paul d...whether i like it or not.
speaker1: i want you pregnant, sethe. would you do that for me? sethe breaks up with laughter. paul joins in.
speaker2: you came by here to ask me that!? you are one crazy-headed man. you right; i don't like it!...don't you think i'm a little too old to start that all over again? she slips her fingers into his.
speaker1: think about it.
speaker2: mercy.

speaker1: i been on my feet all day, paul d. 
speaker2: where i been? sitting down!?
speaker1: stop! i don't have the legs for this!
speaker2: then give'em to me.
speaker1: you need some babies..somebody to play with in the snow.
speaker2: i sure would like to give it a try. need a willing partner though.
speaker1: i'll say..very, very willing.
speaker1: crazy girl. you out here with nothing on.
speaker1: you got to learn more sense than that.

speaker1: evening, girl. 
speaker1: now i know you not sleeping out there tonight, are you paul d.? you come upstairs tonight. where you belong...and stay there.

speaker1: she likes him here... make him go away. 
speaker2: she'd be mad if he leaves.
speaker2: oooo..didn't that hurt you?
speaker1: it's like my dreams...i get two dreams, see..one, i exploding...buuooggg...the other i being swallowed. sometimes it's hard to keep my head on my neck, or these legs connected to my hips...one day i think i might wake up and i'll be in pieces.. maybe it's starting.
speaker2: oh stop. it's just a tooth. probably wisdom. does it hurt?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: then why don't you cry?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: if it hurts, why don't you cry?

speaker1: what you think about schoolteacher? 
speaker2: he white, ain't he?
speaker1: i mean, is he different like mr. garner was?
speaker2: how was he different?
speaker1: well, he and mrs. garner - they ain't like other whites i seen before. mr. garner always spoke soft, for one.
speaker2: don't matter. loud or soft, what they say is the same.
speaker1: mr. garner let you buy out your mother. found that house for her to live in from those friends of his in ohio...
speaker2: yep. he did.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: if he hadn't, she would have dropped in his cooking stove.
speaker1: still, he did it. let you work off her fee, lending yourself out on sundays. he could of said no. he didn't tell you no.
speaker2: no, he didn't tell me no. she worked here ten years. if she worked another ten, ya think she would have made it? i pay him for her last years and in return he got you, me and three more coming..
speaker1: he always treated you fair. called you all men - said he never wanted on his farm.
speaker2: that's just it. we was men because he said so. we was men because we was on his land. you think he be calling us men if we ever walked off his land?
speaker1: when we walk, don't matter what they call you. you'll be free.
speaker2: sethe..baby girl, that ain't gonna happen. not by walking, anyway.
speaker1: what you mean?
speaker2: schoolteacher in there told me to quit lending myself out.
speaker1: but..then..how you gonna buy yourself out? or them? or me?
speaker2: ain't gonna be no buying us out, like i did with mama. or them. as far as schoolteacher concerned, ain't no other life ahead for any of us but this one.
speaker1: halle....what we going to do?
speaker2: sixo, ya know he creeps out at night..he says the way they took my ma'am..he says freedom is that way. he and paul a. got a plan. they heard of this man, what they call an underground agent...if we do what he says, don't need no buy out.
speaker1: you mean...? but what if we caught?
speaker2: same thing they're doing now, honey - only quicker.

speaker1: which one are you doing? 
speaker2: sethe?
speaker1: no, no. that's not the way. i told you to put her human characteristics on the left; her animal ones on the right. and don't forget to line them up.

speaker1: i don't think i can swallow that. 
speaker2: want me to loosen it up with a little water?
speaker1: no. take it away. bring me some cool water, that's all.
speaker2: yes ma'am...
speaker1: yes, you can have quite a few. mmmm. thank you sethe. now tell me, i know halle's no trouble but the others, the pauls and sixo - how's my brother-in- law handling them? all right?
speaker2: yes ma'am. look like it.
speaker1: they do what he tells them?
speaker2: they don't need telling.
speaker1: good. that's a mercy. i know he's no mr. garner. but after he died, i had no else to turn to. i would've had to sell one. it wasn't even enough selling paul f. and in my condition. i needed help. people said i shouldn't be alone here with nothing but negroes. and he is a learned man being a schoolteacher...
speaker1: ...i know his ways might be a little more strict but as long as the men do as they're told i'm sure it'll be fine. all right, i'm through.. talking makes me tired.
speaker2: yes ma'am.

speaker1: hurry up. you're late. 
speaker2: here!
speaker3: but ma'am...
speaker2: just go with her! do what i tell ya!
speaker2: put sugar water on that cloth for her to so she won't forget me til i come.
speaker1: where you going?
speaker2: halle wasn't there. i gotta go back.
speaker1: you crazy..
speaker2: take em out. now! i'll get there myself. i got her milk...i'll get there...don't worry.
speaker2: go..go! now!
speaker4: mama?

speaker1: hey - you like this work so much maybe you best get in the chute with the others. you ain't got much more sense than they do. 
speaker2: ain't just a job reason to sing. other things a man's got to look forward to that a job just a way to spend your day til the good times arrive.
speaker3: good times? ain't no such day.
speaker4: now, now...it's all a state a mind, right paul d. if you can think it, it can happen.
speaker2: more than that. when a man can make plans then a man can make good times happen.
speaker1: oh the man's got plans! you saving up for a gold mine, boy.
speaker2: better then gold, my friend. me and my woman's planning on starting a family.
speaker2: new life. born free, hear! now if that don't define a good tine, i don't know what does.
speaker3: nothing born free ever again.
speaker2: what you talkin? nobody owns us no more. nobody gonna own my children neither.
speaker3: children inherit what come before'em. just cause you can't see no chains, don't mean they not there. we're not free men. we're somewhere between freedom and chains. and as long as the world is white, that's where we're stayin. the truth of this causes the men to be silent as they

speaker1: may i? 
speaker2: free country. no matter what anybody says.
speaker1: i like the way you think, boy. good. good to think that way. friend of mine, baby suggs was her name...sort of became a preacher in these parts..that was her way of thinking too. when she was at her best, that is.
speaker2: you knew baby suggs?
speaker1: oh yes...you're not one of her sweet home men, now are you?
speaker2: yes sir...me and my brothers and her son.
speaker1: oh, i see now.
speaker2: sethe told me she died soft as cream.
speaker1: well...maybe on the outside.
speaker2: why is that?
speaker1: you don't know, son, do you? see i had to figure that out first.
speaker2: know what?

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: that there's a picture of sethe.
speaker1: sethe? nah, that ain't her mouth. i can see where you might think it around the eyes but that there ain't her mouth. besides, why would some black woman's picture be in the paper?
speaker2: you don't read son, do you? you want me to read to you?
speaker3: already fed the girls. you eat? want something?
speaker3: best you come inside. she rises and enters the house. paul follows.

speaker1: i don't have to tell you about sweet home. what it was. but maybe you don't know what it was like for me to get away from there. 
speaker1: i did it. i got us all out. without halle too. up til then it was the only thing i ever did on my own. decided. and it came off right like it was supposed to..
speaker1: we was here. each and every one of my babies and me too. i birthed them and i got 'em out and it wasn't no accident. i did that! i had help, of course, lots of that, but still it was me doing it; me saying, "go on" and "now!". me having to look out. me using my own head. but it was more than that. it was a kind of ...'thinking-about-myself' i never knew nothing about before. it felt good. good and right. i was big, paul, and deep and wide and when i stretched out my arms all my children could get in between. i was that wide. look like i loved them more after i got them here. or maybe i couldn't love'em proper in sweet home 'cause they wasn't mine to love. but when i got here, when i jumped off that wagon - there wasn't nobody in the world i couldn't love if i wanted to....
speaker1: i had 28 days...28 good days of free life.....

speaker1: ...of getting up like i always did, getting dressed before the sun came out, and then realizing i had to decide myself what to do with the day... 
speaker1: ...days of watching my children sleep away the morning...and taking care of my baby like it was the most important thing i had to do...

speaker1: ...and when everyone would gather to hear baby suggs, i saw something i ain't never seen before in my whole life... 
speaker2: let the children come!
speaker2: let the grown men come!!

speaker1: now...you women...i want you to cry. for the living. for the dead....just cry. 
speaker2: ....something in me knew halle was never gonna knock on our door. he was never gonna see what i saw that day. i saw what men look like...and i saw mothers, for the first time.

speaker1: i think it was stamp paid who started it. he walked six miles to the riverbank, slid into a ravine, reached through blood drawing thorns, suffered mosquitoes, wasps and the meanest lady spiders in the state just to bring us those berries. 
speaker2: what a sight you are, stamp.
speaker3: worth it though. just one bite of these berries and you feel down right anointed.
speaker1: she's too little for that, stamp. her bowels be soup.
speaker2: it'll sickify her stomach..now go wash up round back...crazy fool.. stamp exits.
speaker1: it was real nice of him.
speaker2: he's a good one, no doubt of that. i can get three, maybe four pies out of this. seems a shame just for us though. i'm gonna invite ella and john over...
speaker1: how 'bout if i make a couple of chickens to back it up?
speaker1: and that's how it began...

speaker1: ...and ella and john turned into almost ninety others... - women serving up the food... 
speaker1: ... everybody ate so well and laughed so much...
speaker1: ...it made them angry...

speaker1: ...there's a look whitefolks get..a look every learns to recognize along with his ma'am's tit..that righteous look that's like a flag going up the pole..the righteousness that announces the whip, the fist, the burning, the lie...long before it happens in the open... 
speaker1: howard!...bulgar!
speaker1: the shed!...get in the shed!...run!

speaker1: what she go and do that for?...what she go and do that for? 
speaker2: you all better go on.
speaker2: i'll have to take you in. no trouble now. you've done enough to last you.... sethe doesn't move.
speaker2: you come quiet, here, and i won't have to tie you up.
speaker3: sethe. you take my arm and gimme yours.
speaker2: i'm going out here and send for a wagon.
speaker4: i beg you pardon..i beg your pardon..

speaker1: excuse me..but the child needs nursin..needs the mother's milk.. 
speaker2: then she's best come too.
speaker1: one at a time!...and you gotta clean yourself up!
speaker3: mama says wednesday. she says you got to have them fixed by wednesday. baby suggs looks at him not understanding..
speaker3: you hear, baby? she says wednesday.
speaker1: i beg your pardon..lord, i beg your pardon..i sure do....

speaker1: your love is too thick, sethe. 
speaker2: love is or it isn't. thin love ain't love at all...i did stop him. i took and put my babies where they'd be safe...
speaker1: didn't work though, did it?
speaker2: it worked.
speaker1: how? your boys gone, you don't know where. one girl dead, the other can't go farther than the yard. how did it work?
speaker2: they ain't at sweet home! schoolteacher ain't got'em!
speaker1: maybe there's worse.
speaker2: it ain't my job to know what's worse. it's my job to know what is and keep them away from what i know is terrible. i did that.
speaker1: what you did was wrong, sethe.
speaker2: i should have gone back there? taken my babies back there?
speaker1: there could have been a way. some other way.
speaker2: what way?
speaker1: you got two feet, sethe. not four!
speaker1: you can set aside supper for me... might be late getting back...
speaker2: after all i told you, paul d. and after telling me how many feet i have, you think saying goodbye is gonna break me into pieces?
speaker2: you're a sweet man.
speaker2: so long, paul d.

speaker1: what do these do? 
speaker2: my lord...where'd you dig up those?
speaker3: there for skating on the ice. we have another pair and half of another, i think.
speaker1: can we try them?
speaker2: go ice skating? ha... why not?
speaker3: you sure mama?
speaker2: strikes me that after your man leaves, it might just be the wrong time to be scrubbing floors... might just be the perfect time to go ice skating.
speaker2: go get the shawls..and find me an old shoe for that half a pair...

speaker1: come on, ma'am...try! 
speaker2: ...all i remember is how she loved the bottom of burned bread. her little hands...i wouldn't know 'em if they slapped me".
speaker3: ..."here. look here. see this mark? if you can't tell me by my face, look here."

speaker1: i made that song up. i made it up and sang it to my children... 
speaker1: ...nobody knows that song but me and my children.
speaker2: i know it.

speaker1: back stiff? 
speaker2: ooh, yeah...don't know if it's the floor or the skating.
speaker1: could be that fall you took.
speaker2: that was fun.
speaker2: should i wake her?
speaker1: no, let her rest.
speaker2: she likes to see you off in the morning.
speaker1: i'll make sure she does. but first i'm going make up a nice, big breakfast against that cold outside.
speaker2: won't you be late for work?
speaker1: don't matter. first time i'll be late in nine years. no great trouble..whatever goes on out there goes on with or without me showing up on time... don't matter... the world is in this room, baby. this is all there is and all there needs to be.

speaker1: you missed the clearing meeting three saturdays running. 
speaker1: folks came.
speaker2: folks come. folks go.
speaker1: here, let me carry that.
speaker2: i got a delivery around here. name of tucker.
speaker1: yonder. twin chestnuts in the yard.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: well what?
speaker1: this saturday - you coming to call or what?
speaker2: if i call them, and they come what on earth am i going to say to them.
speaker1: say the word!
speaker1: the word. what you was put here to speak.
speaker2: that's the last thing they took from me.
speaker1: but you got to do it. you got to. can't nobody call like you. you have to be there.
speaker2: what i have to do is get in my bed and lay down. i want to fix on something harmless in this world.
speaker1: what world are you talking about? ain't nothing harmless down here.
speaker2: blue. that doesn't hurt nobody. yellow neither.
speaker1: you getting into bed to think about yellow?
speaker2: i likes yellow.
speaker1: then what? when you get through with blue and yellow, then what?
speaker2: can't say. it's something can't be planned.
speaker1: you blaming that what you're doing?
speaker2: no, stamp. i ain't.
speaker1: you saying whitefolks won. that what you saying?
speaker2: those white things have taken all i had or dreamed. i'm saying ain't no bad luck in this world 'cept for white folks..they just don't know when to stop.
speaker1: you saying nothing counts?
speaker2: i'm saying they came into my yard.
speaker1: you saying give up? nothing left for us but pour out our own blood?
speaker2: i'm saying they came into my yard.
speaker1: you punishing him, ain't you?
speaker2: not like he punished me.
speaker1: you can't do that, baby. it ain't right.
speaker2: was a time i knew what was.
speaker1: you still know.
speaker2: what i know is what i see: a woman hauling shoes.
speaker1: aw, baby.
speaker1: we have to be steady. "these things too will pass". what you looking for? a miracle?
speaker2: no. i'm looking for what i was put here to look for: the back door.

speaker1: what the you thinking, girl? 
speaker2: don't talk to me, mr. sawyer. don't say nothing to me this morning.
speaker1: what? what? you talking back to me?
speaker2: i'm telling you don't say nothing to me.
speaker1: you better get them pies made!
speaker1: not too sweet! you make it too sweet they don't eat it.
speaker2: make it the way i always do.
speaker1: yeah. too sweet.

speaker1: where you been keeping yourself? i told john must be cold if stamp stay inside. 
speaker2: oh i been out.
speaker1: out where?
speaker2: was over to baby suggs.
speaker1: what you want there? somebody invite you in?
speaker2: that's baby's kin. i don't need no invite to look after her people.
speaker2: somebody new there. a woman. thought you might know who she is.
speaker1: ain't no new negroes in this town i don't know about. what she look like? you sure that wasn't denver?
speaker2: i know denver.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: i know what i see.
speaker1: might see anything at all at 124.
speaker2: true.
speaker1: better ask paul d.
speaker2: can't locate him.
speaker1: he's sleeping in the church.
speaker2: the church!
speaker1: yeah. asked rev. pike if he could stay in the cellar.
speaker2: it's cold as charity in there! what he do that for? any number'll take him in.
speaker1: can't nobody read minds long distance.
speaker2: why? why he have to ask? can't nobody offer? what's going on? since when a black man come to town have to sleep in the cellar like a dog?!
speaker1: unrile yourself, stamp. it's only a few days he been there.
speaker2: no! shouldn't be no days! you know all about it and don't give him a hand? that don't sound like you, ella. me and you been pulling colored folk out the water more'n twenty years! now you tell me you can't offer a man a bed?! a working man who can pay his own way?
speaker1: he ask, i give him anything.
speaker2: why's that necessary all of a sudden?
speaker1: i don't know him that well.
speaker2: you know he's colored? what else there to know?
speaker1: stamp, don't tear me up this morning! i don't feel like it.
speaker2: it's her, ain't it?
speaker1: her who?
speaker2: sethe. he took up with her and stayed in there and you don't want nothing to-
speaker1: hold on! don't jump if you can't see bottom!
speaker2: girl, give it up! we been friends too long to act like this.
speaker1: well, who can tell what went on in there? i never even knew who sethe was or none of her people.
speaker2: you know she married baby suggs' boy.
speaker1: i ain't sure i know that. baby never laid eyes on her till she showed up here. and how'd she make it and her husband didn't? and where is he? and how she have that baby in the woods by herself? said a whitewoman help her. shoot. you believe that? well, i know what kind of white that was.
speaker2: aw, no, ella.
speaker1: anything white floating around in the woods - if it don't got a shotgun, it's something the lord tells me i don't want no part of.
speaker2: you was friends.
speaker1: till she showed herself.
speaker2: ella.
speaker1: i ain't got no friends take a handsaw to their own children.
speaker2: what's any of that got to do with paul

speaker1: what run him off? tell me that! 
speaker2: i run him off.
speaker1: you?
speaker2: i told him...showed him the newspaper. about sethe. read it to him. he left that very day.
speaker1: you didn't tell me that. i thought he already knew.
speaker2: he didn't know nothing. and nobody. except her, from when they was at that place baby suggs was at.
speaker1: he knew baby suggs?
speaker2: sure he knew her. her boy halle, too.
speaker1: and he left when he found out what sethe did? what you say casts a different light on it, i guess...i thought- stamp knows what she thought.
speaker1: but you didn't come here talking 'bout paul. you came asking about a new girl.
speaker2: that's so.
speaker1: well, paul d. must know who she is. or what she is.
speaker2: you mind loaded with spirits. everywhere you look you see one.
speaker1: you know as well as i do, stamp, that people who die bad don't stay in the ground.

speaker1: howdy. 
speaker2: you got any more newspaper in that pocket for me, just a waste of time. ain't interested. stamp sits beside him.
speaker1: this is hard for me. but i got to do it. two things i got to say to you. i'm a take the easy one first.
speaker2: if it's hard for you, might kill me dead.
speaker1: i come looking for you to ask your pardon. apologize.
speaker2: for what?
speaker1: you pick any house, any house where colored live. pick any one and you welcome to stay there. i'm apologizing 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. but you welcome anywhere you want to be. my house. john and ella. miss lady jones..anybody. you choose. you ain't got to sleep in no cellar and i apologize for each and every night.
speaker2: well i...i did get offered one place but i just wanted to be off by myself a spell.
speaker1: oh yeah. oh that's load off. i thought everybody gone crazy.
speaker2: just me.
speaker1: you planning to do anything about it?
speaker2: oh yeah. i got big plans.
speaker3: hey!!
speaker1: yes sir.
speaker3: i'm looking for a gal name of judy. works over by the slaughterhouse. said she lived on plank road.
speaker1: plank road. yes sir. that's up a ways.
speaker3: you don't know her? judy? works in the slaughterhouse.
speaker1: no sir, i don't, but i know plank road. 'bout a mile up thataway.
speaker3: look here..there's a cross up there, so i guess this here's a church or used to be. seems to me like you ought to show it some respect, you follow me?
speaker1: yes sir..you right about that. that's just what i come over to talk to him about. just that..
speaker2: you remember your price, stamp?
speaker1: never found out.
speaker2: i did. down to the cent.$900. always wondered though what mrs. garner got for my brother paul f. must of been more than nine hundred dollars cause she use that money for sweet home for almost two years. but then they hung my other brother paul a. up on a tree so i guess he wasn't worth the same..i wonder what was baby suggs worth? and halle? i wasn't surprised when i found out they tracked down sethe all the way to cincinatti. her price must have been higher than all of us - her being property that reproduced itself without cost. a breeder.
speaker1: no use thinking these things now.
speaker2: oh but we got to. how we gonna know our price in the future? how are children's children's children gonna know what they cost? who's gonna tell them? what are they gonna pay for us, if we free?
speaker1: children ain't gonna need to know that kind of thing.
speaker2: they'll know. they'll know as soon as they born. cause it's inside us,stamp. it'll be inside them. we'll pass it down. schoolteacher didn't just change the outside, he changed the mind..and the blood..and what it carries...and what it's worth..
speaker1: i don't believe that. i won't.
speaker2: there was a rooster named mister down at sweet home. last time i saw halle, with that butter all over his face and me with an iron bit in my mouth, i saw mister - sitting on a tub. he loved that tub. like king on a throne. he was a hateful thing. and evil..but he was better than me. mister was allowed to be and stay what he was. even if you cooked him you'd be cooking a rooster named mister. but wasn't no way i'd ever be paul d. again..schoolteacher changed me. was never no beating under mr. garner. schoolteacher changed that. why wouldn't a man run from that? why wouldn't a man not work, kill, starve, pull out his own heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling that? and it strikes me, it's got to be cause we were something else. and that something was less than a chicken sitting in the sun on a tub. he drinks.
speaker1: i said i had two things to say to you. i only told you one. i have to tell you the other.
speaker2: i don't want to know.
speaker1: i was there paul d...there in the yard.
speaker2: what yard? when who- and then paul realizes he's talking of sethe.
speaker2: 
speaker1: it ain't what you think.
speaker2: you don't know what i think.
speaker1: she ain't crazy. she love those children. she was trying to outhurt the hurter's all.
speaker2: leave off..
speaker1: she was only-
speaker2: stamp, leave off i said! i knew her when she was a girl. she scares me and i knew her when she was a girl...
speaker1: you ain't scared of sethe. i don't believe you.
speaker2: she scares me. i scare me. and that girl in her house scares me.
speaker1: who is she? where she come from?
speaker2: don't know. just shot up one day from a stump.
speaker1: she what run you off? not what i told you 'bout sethe?
speaker2: tell me something, stamp. tell me this one thing. how much is a supposed to take?
speaker1: all he can. all he can.
speaker2: why? why? why? why? why?

speaker1: you shouldn't be in here? 
speaker2: what do you know about it? i sleep where i want.
speaker1: you best leave that quilt alone. that was grandma's quilt.
speaker2: breakfast ready? i'm hungry!

speaker1: morning. 
speaker2: morning, ma'am.
speaker1: you hungry?
speaker2: no, ma'am.
speaker2: i'll finish those. why don't you sit down?
speaker3: you don't sit with me!!
speaker1: baby, don't be like that.
speaker3: you don't sit with me!! i don't sit with people who leave me!
speaker1: don't talk like that. your mama loves you.
speaker3: i had another dream last night. the dead man laying on top of me and i had nothing to eat. and the ghosts without skin stuck their fingers in me and said beloved in the dark and in the light..
speaker1: don't say those things. you forget about those dreams..
speaker3: you gave me the bad dreams. you left me behind...
speaker1: mama told you - i'd give up my own life, every minute, every hour of it to take back one of your tears baby...my children my best thing. you my best thing!
speaker3: you're weren't nice to me..you didn't smile at me..
speaker1: that's not true. i told you, i had to get you out, make you safe...so's you and me could be together on the other side, forever..
speaker2: ma'am...

speaker1: hold back denver - i'm fine..you..you go on upstairs. i'll do the cleaning up. 
speaker2: but mama..
speaker1: go upstairs i said!!
speaker3: i want somethin' sweet.
speaker1: we don't have nothing sweet no more, baby.
speaker3: not for me, you don't! you don't let me eat the pies...
speaker1: no. since mama lost her job, we don't have no more pies..

speaker1: you mean i never told you about your daddy? about the bodwins who let me rent this here house while i do my shoe repairing? about your mother's feet, not to mention her back? i never told you all that? 
speaker1: is that why you can't walk down the steps and out yonder by yourself? denver can't answer.
speaker1: why you never go back to lady jone's and learn your letters? you liked going there i remember. seeing the other children. then all a sudden, you stop.
speaker2: there was a boy there...said mama was a jailbird...said he could prove it..
speaker1: my my...what people won't say. why didn't you come and ask me? 'fraid i'll tell ya, huh? come here, child.. denver crawls into her arms.
speaker1: you got to go sometime. you got to go out there by yourself sometime.
speaker2: but you said...you said out there, there ain't no...what was that word?..no..de- fense. no de-fense.
speaker1: there ain't.
speaker2: then what do i do?
speaker1: know it, and go on out the yard. go on.

speaker1: mama? 
speaker2: i look just like her.

speaker1: mama let me help you. 
speaker2: no!...she wanted me to do it.

speaker1: why denver..look at you. 
speaker1: it's been so long. it's so nice of you to come see me. what brings you?
speaker1: well, never mind - nobody needs a reason to visit. let me make us some tea. come on.

speaker1: how's your family, honey? 
speaker2: i want to work, miss lady.
speaker1: work? start learnin your letters again?
speaker2: no. i mean work work.
speaker1: well, what can you do?
speaker2: i can't do anything but i would learn it for you if you have a little extra.
speaker1: extra?
speaker2: food. my mama, she doesn't feel well. i couldn't stay away from her too long, cause of her condition but i could do chores in the mornings.
speaker1: oh baby...i don't know anyone could pay anybody anything for work they did themselves...but if you all need to eat until your mother's well, all you have to do is say so...we have a church committee invented so nobody had to go hungry.
speaker2: no..no that won't do...

speaker1: nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's going be doing that..nobody going be writing my daughter's characteristics on the animal side..no sir..i don't care..ain't laying that down..no sir. i refuse..that's right..that's right... 
speaker2: mama...mama she's asleep. why don't you eat something.
speaker1: she likes this dress...
speaker2: but you'll hurt your eyes doin it there. come sit at the table.
speaker2: please mama, eat something...

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: may i come in?
speaker1: what you want?
speaker2: i want to see mr. and mrs. bodwin.
speaker1: miss bodwin. they brother and sister, darlin.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: what you want'em for?
speaker2: i'm looking for work. i was thinking they might know of some.
speaker1: you baby sugg's kin, ain't you?
speaker2: yes ma'am.
speaker1: i heard your mother took sick, that so?
speaker2: yes ma'am..
speaker1: well, come on in. you letting in flies.

speaker1: you know what? i've been here since i was fourteen and i remember like yesterday when baby suggs, holy, came here and sat right where you are. whiteman name of garner brought her. he and mr. bodwin were good friends. that's how she got that house you all live in. other things too. 
speaker2: yes ma'am.
speaker1: i never went to those woodland services but she was always nice to me. always.
speaker2: i miss her.
speaker1: bet you do. everybody miss her. that was a good woman...well, i don't know whether the bodwins think it or not but they sure could use some extra help.
speaker2: ya think?
speaker1: they getting older now and i can't take care of 'em like i used to. more and more they keep asking me to sleep over night. now, i don't want to quit these people but they can't have all my days and nights too. i got my own family needs me. it'll take some convincing but maybe you could come after supper - take care of your mama during the day, then earn a little something at night, how's that?
speaker2: fine. but what would i do at night?
speaker1: be here. in case.
speaker2: in case of what?
speaker1: in case the house burn down or bad weather slops the roads so bad i can't get here on time or late guests needed cleaning up after. anything. don't ask me what whitefolks need at night.

speaker1: they good whitefolks? 
speaker2: oh yeah. they good. can't say they ain't good. i wouldn't trade them for another pair, tell you that. but you come back in a few days - give me a chance to lead'em to it. all right?
speaker2: what is it, child? what's the trouble with sethe?

speaker1: but is it really the daughter, janey? the killed one? 
speaker2: that what she say.

speaker1: how they know it's her? 
speaker2: it's sitting there. sleeps, eats and raises hell. whipping sethe every day.
speaker3: i'll be. a baby?
speaker4: no. grown now. the age it would have been had it lived.
speaker3: in the flesh. and whipping her.

speaker1: guess she had it coming a little. 
speaker2: nobody got that coming.

speaker1: but ella- you can't just up and kill your children. 
speaker2: no, and the children can't just up and kill the mama. what's fair ain't necessarily right... now you all know how i felt about the whole thing. i know the rage sethe felt in that shed that day. we all do. but what i could not understand, and still don't, was her reaction to it. prideful. too complicated for a black woman in her position before but whatever she done, i don't like the idea of past errors taking possession of the present. i don't cotton to sin moving in on a house, unleashed and sassy. every day life takes enough, takes all a woman has. "sufficient unto the day is evil thereof" and nobody needs more. nobody needs a grown up evil sitting at a table with a grudge. as long as that ghost showed itself from a ghostly place, i respected it. but once it take on flesh and come into this world, well, the shoe's on the other foot now. i don't mind a little communication between worlds. but this here's an invasion.
speaker3: should we pray?
speaker2: uh-huh. first. then we got to get down to business.

speaker1: mama?....mama i'm going out.. mama, i got a job. working over at the bodwins at night. mr. bodwin coming over now to pick me up on his way back from town. i'll be staying there nights and coming back here for the daytime. we'll have some money, mama..mama? sethe continues her action as if hypnotized. denver approaches her from behind and whispers softly; 
speaker1: i'm going help you, mama. don't you give up yet.

speaker1: no...no, he's not coming into my yard. he not taking my best thing...no.. 
speaker1: no...no...no..
speaker2: mama?
speaker1: no...no..no..noooooooooooo!

speaker1: good morning, paul d. 
speaker2: well, is it now? how you getting along?
speaker1: don't pay to complain.
speaker2: you on your way home?
speaker1: no. got me an afternoon job at the shirt factory. figure between that and my night work at the bodwins i might be able to put something away for me and mama.
speaker2: they treating you right over at the bodwins?
speaker1: more than all right. miss bodwin, she teach me stuff..book stuff. she says i might go to oberlin. she's experimenting on me.
speaker2: your mother all right?
speaker1: no. not a bit all right. hasn't gotten out of bed since that day.
speaker2: you think i should stop by? think she'd welcome it?
speaker1: i don't know. i think i've lost my mother, paul d.
speaker2: that girl...you know, beloved...
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: she gone like they say?
speaker1: haven't seen her since that day. ella thinks she might be waiting in the woods for another chance but..i don't think so. mama thinks she's gone for good. says she can feel it.
speaker2: you think she sure 'nough your sister?
speaker1: at times. at other times i think she was...more. but who would know that better than you. i mean, you sure 'nough you her.
speaker2: well, if you want my opinion...
speaker1: i don't. i have my own.
speaker2: you grown.
speaker1: yes sir
speaker2: well, good luck with the job.
speaker1: thank you. they pass each other until denver turns back;
speaker1: and paul d...you don't have to stay 'way, but be careful how you talk to my mama, hear?
speaker2: i will.
speaker3: hey, miss denver..wait up!

speaker1: sethe? 
speaker2: paul d.
speaker1: aw, sethe.
speaker2: you shaved.
speaker1: yeah. look bad?
speaker2: no, you looking good.
speaker1: devil's confusion. what's this i hear about you not getting out of bed? i saw denver. she tell you?
speaker2: she comes in the daytime. she still with me, my denver.
speaker1: you got to get up from here, girl.
speaker2: i'm tired, paul. so tired. i have to rest a while.
speaker1: don't you die on me!! this is baby suggs quilt. is that what you planning!?
speaker2: oh, i don't have no plans. no plans at all.
speaker1: look - denver be here in the day. i be here in the night. i'm a take care of you, you hear? starting now.
speaker1: what, baby?
speaker2: she left me. she's gone again.
speaker1: aw, girl. don't cry...me and you, we got more yesterday than anybody. we need some kind of tomorrow...
speaker2: she was my best thing.
speaker1: you your best thing, sethe. you are.
speaker2: me?...me?

