speaker1: tick, tock, seven o'clock. time to rise and open your eyes. 
speaker1: tick, tock, seven-oh-one. time to get up, the day had begun.
speaker1: tick, tock --
speaker2: i dreamed about mars again... it was bizarre, yet is was so real...
speaker3: it's your time of the month again.
speaker3: at least once a month. douglas quail's obsession. for twelve years you've been talking about mars.
speaker2: people do go to mars, you know.
speaker3: that's right, douglas. but not you. not us.
speaker3: as it is, we can barely scrape by on your lousy ten thousand a week. she leaves the room. he meditates on what she said, depressed.

speaker1: what do they expect ... the way men dress these days ... then they scream rape. 
speaker2: you know -- let's really do it.
speaker1: men in the park?
speaker2: no. go to mars.
speaker1: go to hell.
speaker2: we can pool our savings and i've got some sick leave coming, besides my regular vacation...
speaker1: ...more of a half-wit. for a start a war could break out there any day ...
speaker2: that's just media talk. they're... ...just a minority. they're powerless.
speaker1: well, there's a lot of things we need around here before we waste our money on a trip to mars. we're broke. i'm just a slave around this dump. now if you were capable of finding a better job....
speaker3: it's now eight. you'll be late!
speaker2: i'll be late!

speaker1: no weapon again, mr. quail? 
speaker2: i keep forgetting, herb. they frighten me.
speaker1: yeah? well, it's the law, mr. quail. has been since 1990 they tell me. tomorrow - ya carry ya gun or ya get reported.
speaker2: okay. herb, okay.

speaker1: -- more violence today from mars's strike-torn ore colonies -- 
speaker1: ...but earth intelligence operations director vilos cohaagen, clearly worried about the damage to mars's all important tourist industry was today dismissive of the dissident groups.... tv scene switches to a press conference. cohaagen, sur- rounded by aides, steps in front of a podium packed with news network microphones and cameras. cohaagen is a striking, intense man with an obvious air of power.
speaker2: we're dealing with a bunch of extremists and unrepresentative lunatics. mars is a happy and prosperous protectorate of earth... and will remain so.
speaker3: there have been some criticisms, sir....
speaker2: i have no further comment.
speaker4: good morning, commuters. this portion of your trip is brought to you by rekall, inc. do you have a dream that never came true? do you aspire - but only perspire? has the great adventure passed you by? then come to... rekall, where what might have been will have been. for the memories of a lifetime... rekall.

speaker1: but... is the process really that effective? a false memory!? mcclane we prefer the term "extra- factual implant". your memory will be complete in every way. you will have gone to mars. we guarantee that. 
speaker1: is it in any way dangerous? i mean, the medical techniques? mcclane not when you deal with qualified operators - like us.
speaker1: it's just - incredible. mcclane and look at our follow-up program! he puts items on the desk as he talks. mcclane space-flight ticket stub... passport... vaccination certificates... matchbooks from martian nouvelle cuisine restaurants, souvenirs, post cards... even names of people you met - now back there - who you can call and discuss your trip with... by the way, we plant these things where you'll come across them at random in the future.
speaker1: but... i'll know i hired you. that'll destroy the whole illusion. mcclane but you won't remember me, or having been here.
speaker1: i won't? mcclane your money back if you do! we've never paid out yet. quail slumps backs in his chair, overwhelmed. mcclane and we have a special this month, for only two-hundred thousand dollars more.

speaker1: mcclane you can have a new identity for the duration of the trip. pick one. 
speaker2: "intelligence agent"... wouldn't that be dangerous? i might attack.... mcclane no. no. you're a retired agent. mars was your last mission and you're never to break your cover. but you'll have got the girl, killed the baddies, and saved the universe. not bad, eh?
speaker2: i don't know... about the whole thing... it's all such a fake. i won't really have gone. i won't really.... mcclane let's face it, douglas, you, and millions of people like you have no chance of ever getting to mars and you'd never qualify as a secret agent for eio. this - rekall - is the only way to achieve your dream. he gets up and walks around to quail's chair. mcclane think about it, douglas. think, too, what a terrible boor a real holiday is. lost tickets, endless arguments, lousy hotels, missed connections, rotten weather... rekall will supply you with perfect, happy memories.

speaker1: you know that's illegal. 
speaker2: yeah? who's going to report me? you?... wimp.... she watches a torrid love scene on the video.
speaker2: around's illegal, too. but just give me half a chance...

speaker1: hi, i'm doctor sophie lull. sorry i'm late. i'll be right with you. 
speaker2: this really going to work?
speaker3: it the pope martian?
speaker4: okay -- that's it.
speaker3: now, just relax, kid. this ain't gonna hurt. just a controlled drip of narkadine. when you're under, i'll just ask ya a few questions, nothin' real personal, just full details of yer private life so's we can tailor the wish-fulfillment program to your needs.
speaker3: see? painless. i didn't feel a thing. hey, you're a nice kid... you like a little somethin' extra?
speaker3: good! kid -- have i got a girl for you! she's gonna like you. you're good-lookin'. gettin' sleepy? good. now, what's the first thing you think of when you're thinkin' about mars?
speaker2: well... i'd like to see the martian sphinx...
speaker3: okay -- you will, dougle! i want ya to start counting backwards from a hundred for me.
speaker2: one hundred... ninety-nine... ninety-eight... ninety-seven... ninety-six... ninety-five.... his voice drops off; his eyes close. lull studies him, adjusts some instruments, then turns to ernie, glancing briefly at a typed sheet in front of her.
speaker3: okay, ernie, the trip to mars; number sixty-two... and throw in that blonde... we'll give him a real good time.
speaker4: sixty-two... and... the blonde...
speaker4: boy, is this one wild. he won't want to come back.
speaker3: dougie? this sophie lull.
speaker2: ...sophie....
speaker3: good! ... i'm gonna ask ya a few more questions now. ya think you'll be able to answer 'em?
speaker2: ...yes....
speaker3: attaboy! to begin with, i wanna ask ya; -- you life. how many a week? 11 int. mcclane's office - day
speaker3: howie? listen, you'd better get in here. mcclane not another schizoid embolism.
speaker3: you'd better get in here.

speaker1: quail? dougie, can you hear me? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: tell mcclane what you told us.
speaker2: all of you in this room are dead. mcclane what's he talking about?
speaker2: you've broken my cover. mcclane what is this?...
speaker1: the narkadine cracked a memory cap. mars -- he's really been there.
speaker3: with spontaneous breakthrough. mcclane holy
speaker2: you've compromised the sphinx project. you'll have to be silenced. now they're all panicked. mcclane wait a minute. quail --
speaker2: my name isn't quail. mcclane listen... whoever you are... sir.... ...this is all an accident. we'll destroy all the records. no one will know. i swear it.
speaker2: i believe you, but that won't stop e.t.o. from killing you.
speaker2: killing you... killing you... killing you....
speaker1: he wants a false memory implanted -- of a trip he really took. someone at earth intelligence operations erased his memory. all he know was going to mars meant something special to him.
speaker3: what do we do? graft a false memory pattern over the real memory of the same thing?
speaker1: uh-uh... that could promote a partial breakthrough of the real trip. mcclane revive him without any false memory implantation and get him out of here.
speaker1: why don't we just wipe out the memory of his visit here? mcclane yes. good. i'll destroy his file and cancel his fee. i have a feeling that the longer he doesn't know who he is, where he's been, where he's going and who we are, the better off we'll all be. i'm taking a holiday. a real one.

speaker1: where am i? 
speaker2: travelling south along third avenue, passing fourty-third street.
speaker1: where am i going?
speaker2: thirty-three thirteen "g" street, sector "l", twin towers, apartment six-thirty- five.
speaker1: how did i get here?
speaker2: i don not understand the question, sir or madam.
speaker1: how did i get into this cab?
speaker2: you stepped into it in the normal manner, sir or madam.

speaker1: aren't you the man from mars? 
speaker2: don't give us a reason to kill you.
speaker3: mr. zimmer...mr. zimmer... help me... they're...

speaker1: where are you taking me? 
speaker2: you told everyone at rekall about you trip to mars. where you went, who you worked for, what you did --
speaker1: but i didn't... are you telling me... i did go to mars? i don't remember?
speaker2: you've remembered too much. the sphinx project, for a start....
speaker1: sphinx?... no, no, i don't, i... what about the people at rekall? i don't recall rekall but you said if they know what i did? why don't you ask them? they'll tell you i didn't...
speaker2: they've been taken care of.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker1: what are you going to do with me?
speaker2: get in the car.
speaker1: my no! you're going to kill me!
speaker2: no one's going to kill you if [you do what you're told.] we're visiting e.i.o. for some new tests. now get in, or do we start playing rough?
speaker1: no! it's not my fault! you can't do it!
speaker1: wait a minute, i remember --
speaker2: what, quail? what do you remember?
speaker1: on mars... they tried to kill me... and....

speaker1: did you know i've been to mars? 
speaker2: what! this stupid obsess...
speaker1: i think i've been. i vaguely recall...
speaker2: doug, you've got to forget...
speaker1: forget? remembering is the problem i must've been to one of those artificial memory places...
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: but something went wrong... something about a real memory... and then those men... tried to kill me.
speaker2: what men? doug, you're crazy.
speaker2: you're here now. they didn't kill you.
speaker1: no. that's what's so amazing. i killed them. i think...
speaker2: where? where are they?
speaker2: doug! it's something they put into your mind at the memory place. fantasies. that's their business.
speaker2: you're a computer operator. you're a bore. you're a wimp. you're not a killer.
speaker1: i'm involved somehow with e.i.o. it's true. it's no fantasy.
speaker2: doug, i want you to see a doctor. now alec and shirley turnbull have a good man. he helped alec through his breakdown.
speaker1: for fuck's sake, this is no breakdown!

speaker1: my did you say i need a psychiatrist? 
speaker2: i haven't seen you move that fast since i've known you.
speaker1: how could you do it? after eight years!
speaker2: i'm not your wife, quail.
speaker1: not my wife! you are out of your mind.
speaker2: it's a false memory implant. i never saw you before six weeks ago.
speaker1: why are you lying like this?
speaker2: no, quail. it's true. you work for e.i.o. so do i.
speaker1: but why all of this?
speaker2: we had to watchdog you...make sure the erasure took. a wife seemed like a good idea.
speaker1: but i remember it! all of it!... us!
speaker2: all implanted.
speaker1: our friends... my work...
speaker2: the job's real -- you've had is six weeks -- since you got back from mars.
speaker2: it's all a fabrication, quail.
speaker1: this is crazy! if all my memories are false, who am i? what am i? jesus... it's like i don't exist.
speaker2: you exist, all right. that's the problem.
speaker1: why did you try to kill me?
speaker2: they don't particularly. that was my idea. this assignment was boring me to death. the personality they gave you wasn't too thrilling.
speaker1: well, what did i do on mars that they have to keep me from telling?
speaker2: i've no idea. i just work here.
speaker1: all right... i'm leaving.
speaker2: i don't have to follow you. you can't get away from e.i.o. nobody does.
speaker1: no wonder you got the role as my bitchy wife -- type casting.

speaker1: it! 
speaker2: we won't be able to track him again until he comes up above ground!

speaker1: [please....] 
speaker1: ...leave the cab as bullets are hitting the vehicle in considerable quantities.

speaker1: help you, sir? 
speaker2: a room for the night.

speaker1: here's ten thousand. forget the id. 
speaker1: i have a liaison with a lady... and i'm married...
speaker2: i understand, sir. nothing like a bit on the side, eh? bit of fugitive flesh. the greatest aphrodisiac is a new body, wouldn't you say, sir?

speaker1: i told you, i don't want to be disturbed. 
speaker2: if you want to live, don't hand up.
speaker2: they've got you bugged... they're gonna find you. faster than you can say "back rodgers". and don't bother shaking down your clothes -- the monitor is embedded in your skull.
speaker1: who are you? what the is this?

speaker1: why should i trust you? 
speaker2: there's a real old saying - "beggars can't be choosers". go and soak your head!

speaker1:  
speaker2: cut the language, will ya?
speaker1: it's gone! some...malfunction...
speaker2: toldya the martian assembled [stuff don't work.]

speaker1: keep talking. 
speaker2: head over to skid row -- to the lucky stub pawnshop -- corner of park avenue and fifty-eighth. tell the man you're mr. hotchkiss; you came for your grecian candlesticks.
speaker1: what do i want with grecian candlesticks!
speaker2: just do it! this is no time for small talk.
speaker1: how did you know where to find me?
speaker2: i've been tailing you since you get back from mars.

speaker1: you're e.i.o. you're on the other team. 
speaker2: i'm e.i.o. but i was your best friend. scott stevens - we arranged this...
speaker1: i can't remember - only bits...
speaker2: i was your fail-safe -- if and when the shooting started. good luck. look me up if you remember me.

speaker1: well, look at that. he's really got his hands full. 
speaker2: not so full, so i've heard.

speaker1: quick. the guy who checked in fifteen minutes ago. 
speaker2: room...thirty-six.
speaker2: he was only meeting a lady... aren't you guys overdoing it a bit?

speaker1: you wanta camera? i got some good, top-quality ones. you want silk rugs? handmade last century in iran...all perfect. you want videos? old movies... classics...all those vietnam war ones...real quaint stuff... 
speaker2: i wonder if you could tell me...
speaker1: i trust these will look well in you... mosque.

speaker1: what the hell...? 
speaker2: "hauser, this is hauser -- or whatever you think your name is now. if you're listening to this, i'm talking to myself. your memory's been erased and you've got a wet towel around your head. "the first thing you've got to do is get rid of that bug in your head."
speaker2: the monitoring device is located in your left maxillary sinus cavity. make a small incision in your neck just below the left ear, and insert the wire up into the sinus. the head is self-guiding. just shove.
speaker2: you won't feel a thing. the spray cartridge contains a local anesthetic and a blood coagulant. careful, it's my neck, too.
speaker3: it's come on again.
speaker4: where?
speaker3: he's in that old flophouse. plaza hotel. central park south.

speaker1: anything? 
speaker2: we're running every one of his memory tapes for the past fifteen years. nothing yet, sir.
speaker1: there must be something -- some place he would go, some friend he would run to.
speaker3: they lost him.
speaker1: again?!
speaker1: are you sure the original suppression took?
speaker2: absolutely, sir. he thinks he's quail, a computer...
speaker1: then how do you explain what he's doing?
speaker2: just his instincts. he was well trained by e.i.o.... maybe the memory cap's fractured. portions of his prior identity could be leaking through.
speaker1: he'll remember mars? the sphinx project?
speaker2: fragments. nothing more. nothing he could piece together. i did advise terminating him, rather than implanting an identify alternative.
speaker1: what do you think i am? a barbarian? we're not living in the twentieth century!
speaker1: hold it there.

speaker1: if he had to travel to mars with that bunch, i'd be sorry for him. 
speaker2: we couldn't have missed him?
speaker1: no way. let's get a coffee before the next shuttle.

speaker1: those long gorges you see, clearly are the legendary canals of mars.... 
speaker1: of course, they are not manmade canals, but vast natural chasms ...many deeper and larger than the grand canyon. though utterly without moisture now, scientists have determined that they were formed by massive flooding millions of years ago.

speaker1: it's no garden of eden. 
speaker2: no. quite a bit to see, though.
speaker1: what do you know about that?
speaker3: not much, really. millions of years old. bit like the one that used to be in egypt, you know...
speaker1: yeah. got destroyed in the arab wars... what about this independence movement?
speaker2: not worth worrying about. mostly descendants of the original colonists from earth. now they want self-rule so they can sell us all the minerals... i don't think we've met. you with our group? takes me a while to know everyone.
speaker1: sure. douglas quail.
speaker2: richard toltz. well, doug, i hope we'll see a lot more of each other.

speaker1: you know how it is, sir. some of these red-asses are a bit prejudiced. 
speaker2: prejudiced? against what?
speaker1: earthmen.
speaker2: what are they singing?
speaker1: the martian national anthem.

speaker1: "...the martian sphinx... only evidence of non-human civilization ever discovered ...age estimated at over eighteen million years... 
speaker2: he stares at quail.
speaker3: quail approaches the registration desk.
speaker4: nice to have you back with us, mr. hauser.
speaker5: nice to be back. i'm flattered you remember me.
speaker4: part of my job, sir.
speaker5: do you remember my first name, too?
speaker4: charles. charles hauser, right?
speaker5: i'm impressed. listen. i need transportation to the... uh... the sphinx.
speaker4: i'm sorry, sir. but earth government has sealed off the excavation site completely. no one but survey teams and archaeologists are allowed closer than twenty miles.
speaker4: oh... do you want the item you left with us?
speaker5: what item? oh... yes, please.

speaker1: need a cab, boss mon? 
speaker2: mine's right around the corner.
speaker3: that one's closer.
speaker2: but i out-hustle him, right?
speaker3: right.

speaker1: ...if that intergalactic little napoleon thinks i'm sellin' and clearin' outta here, he can think again! 
speaker2: ...watcha gonna do when he cuts off the air, luke?
speaker3: ...you'll be breathin' red dust and shittin' bricks.
speaker4: ...my wife ain't goin' on one of those space shuttles...
speaker5: ...aw, come on... flyin's safer'n crossin' the road...
speaker6: ...yeah, there ain't been a real disaster since that collision off phobos, nigh on twenty years ago...
speaker4: ...well, that killed twelve thousand...
speaker7: what is this, bennie...
speaker8: sorta. bunch of miners out here got their own claims, from way back. cohaagen's buyin' em all up, says he's gonna cut off the air an' water if they won't sell...
speaker7: i'm looking for melina noel.
speaker9: you've found her.
speaker10: you bastard!
speaker10: you bastard...
speaker10: that's new -- the innocent look. you didn't have that one before. well?
speaker7: well, uh... i...
speaker10: all right, i'll say it for you.
speaker10: don't worry. i got the note.
speaker7: what note?
speaker10: oh, the usual one. "must return immediately to earth...
speaker7: i don't have a wife. well, i do - but not a real wife. hell... look... someone else sent that note. someone who --
speaker10: what are you here for?!
speaker7: for you! i don't even know why --
speaker7: whoever i was, i must have been a helluva guy.
speaker10: "whoever you were"???
speaker7: listen. i've for to tell you something. i beg you to believe me... help me -- all melina's suspicions come rushing back.
speaker7: something happened to my mind. memory suppression, false implant, i don't know what -- melina backs off. quail grows more desperate.
speaker7: what i'm saying is... i don't remember you. i don't remember us. i don't remember me -- melina's expression grows dead hard.
speaker10: [and i thought...]
speaker7: who is us?
speaker10: memory erasure is what they use on agents. go away.
speaker7: wait... i was an agent -- i'm not now -- just tell me who i am! how did we know each other? why are they trying to kill me?!
speaker10: i'm not trusting you again.
speaker7: you loved me once, you must have --
speaker10: that you was a liar. who you are now i don't even know.
speaker7: please, melina --
speaker10: get out!
speaker7: i need your help --
speaker10: get out! get the away from me!

speaker1: it's a tough planet, boss. 
speaker2: yeah, right.
speaker1: some guy really screwed her - screwed her up real good. some earthman. just hopped on a space shuttle.
speaker2: listen, bennie. you're pretty well informed?
speaker1: if that means i know it all, you're right, boss.
speaker2: what do you know about the sphinx?
speaker1: i don't know nothin'. not about the sphinx. that's out of the ball park.
speaker2: i have to get there. can't you help me?
speaker1: no can do, mon. you want women, cigarettes, red-market money, booze, even air or water... bennie's your man.

speaker1: well... look at that one, eh? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: big cheese in town. big smelly cheese.
speaker2: cohaagen? but isn't he often here?
speaker1: no way. that cat just cheat the martian workers without ever leavin' his place in beverly hills. somethin' must be cookin'.

speaker1: mr. hauser... 
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: mr. hauser, i want to talk to you... about douglas quail.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: my name is george edgemar.
speaker2: rekall??
speaker1: yes. it's difficult to explain... could you open the door, please? i'm not armed.
speaker3: hello, mr. quail. may i come in? i won't be offended if you prefer to keep the gun you're holding trained on me.
speaker2: all right... come in.
speaker3: my card, mr. quail.
speaker2: okay -- so you're doctor george edgemar of 'rekall, inc.' so?
speaker3: as i said... this is going to be very difficult -- for both of us.
speaker2: i'm listening.
speaker3: mr. quail... i'm afraid you're not really standing here at this moment.
speaker2: sat that again.
speaker3: i said, you're not really here. neither am i. we're both in the memory studio -- in the offices of rekall, inc. on earth.
speaker2: are you trying to tell me that this is all part of some... artificially injected fantasy?
speaker3: no, not quite. we didn't give you this. you're creating it yourself -- remember the option we offered you? intelligence agent? something inside you liked that idea, fastened on it. what you're experiencing now is a free-form delusion that you yourself are fabricating.
speaker2: what is this you're giving me?
speaker3: this is not -- mr. quail. it's the truth. i know it's very hard for you to accept, but you're having a schizophrenic reaction... we can't snap you out of the narkadine. you're in a world of your own fantasy.
speaker2: then how the can you be in my dream -- if you know it's just a dream?
speaker3: i've been artificially implanted -- like the first part of your fantasy. i'm actually monitoring your dream at a psychoprobe console. this is a last resort. when somebody gets stuck in their own fantasy, we send in someone after them. a specialist, like myself.
speaker2: i don't believe a word you're saying.
speaker3: i was afraid you'd think that. i'm sorry to have to do this, but you really are stuck. doctor noel, would you come in now please?
speaker4: yes, mr. quail, i'm afraid it's all true.
speaker4: i tried to break through to you earlier, but you just molded me into your fantasy. sometimes it takes dr. edgemar to get through to a client as tough as you.
speaker2: so what's supposed to happen now?
speaker3: just do exactly as we tell you.
speaker2: somehow that doesn't appeal to me.
speaker4: please, mr. quail... try to cooperate. you're having a schizophrenic embolism.
speaker3: if we can't get you out now... you may never come out of it.
speaker5: even more suspicious.

speaker1: if this is a fantasy, there'll be no real consequences when i pull this trigger. 
speaker2: but there will by consequences inside your mind. consequences that won't hurt me... but could be fatal to you. if you shoot me, you'll wipe me out of your fantasy -- i can't come back again. because to you, i'll be dead. i can't help you get back to reality. you'll be stuck in permanent psychosis.

speaker1: showing no fear of tension whatever. 
speaker2: you're going to lower the gun, mr. quail. you're going to hand it to me --

speaker1: watch out, charles! there's more of them in the hall! 
speaker2: you've had it, hauser! throw out your weapon if you want a past!
speaker1: there's an explosive in the clipboard! he has a dead-man switch in his hand!

speaker1: what do you say, hauser? we haven't got all night! hauser? 
speaker2: what happens it i come out?
speaker1: we'll put in a word with the big boys. maybe you'll just get exile to venus.
speaker2: all right. here comes the weapon.

speaker1: back in, quick! 
speaker2: wouldn't you prefer your order in your room, sir?
speaker1: in!

speaker1: okay. answers! now! 
speaker2: they kidnapped me. said they'd kill you if i didn't cooperate. i told them i didn't care, but then when i realized they meant it...
speaker1: i don't know why they're after me, but what's your connection with all this?
speaker2: we were together before.
speaker1: believe me, i'm really sorry i can't recall the details of that encounter.

speaker1: bad news, boss lady. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: black cruiser just pull out behind us.

speaker1: forget the shooter, boss. i lose 'em for you. 
speaker2: lose them? in this?
speaker1: hang on!

speaker1: shouts over 
speaker2: you're gonna get a ticket for that engine, bennie --
speaker3: yutani 650 -- you like it, boss? nothing like the old gas when you want a bit of speed. bullets from the cruiser rip through the car.
speaker4: you better have two aces, bennie. there's a second cruiser -- and it's gaining --

speaker1: i take it, then, you've failed to get him again. 
speaker1: proceed with operation sphinx.
speaker2: but, sir...
speaker1: with him... ...on the lose, i'm not taking any more chances. operation sphinx will flush him out.

speaker1: what's all this? 
speaker2: nothin', boss. just old smokies. only place they can come for a puff. it's all banned topside.
speaker1: so you two are into something a bit more serious than the taxi and truck-stop business.
speaker2: that's right, boss.
speaker1: my god!... t-shirts. they died out on earth years ago.
speaker2: well, maybe we ain't fashion leaders, boss.
speaker3: no. but we still believe in a free mars.
speaker1: so where did i fit into all this?
speaker3: you - when you were charles hauser with e.i.o - infiltrated our group. i guess cohaagen didn't trust you any more when you and
speaker4: her gesture suggests their liaison.
speaker1: yeah. and i can't even remember it. we'll have to arrange a return bout.
speaker3: ...so he had your memory wiped and fixed you up with a new identity.
speaker1: but - the sphinx. why is that stuck in my mind? why's it so important?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: just an ole heap o' stone, boss.
speaker1: it's more than that, bennie, i know it's more. somehow it's connected.
speaker3: maybe there's a way you can get your memory back.
speaker1: how? what? where? when?
speaker3: a bit of martian wisdom. we're not all stupid colonists.

speaker1: ...all residents are to report to their nearest space-travel agent within twelve hours, all residents will be departing on shuttles within twenty-four hours. air and water supplies will be cut off at that time. i repeat... 
speaker2: he's doing it!
speaker3: what? why?
speaker2: clearing everyone out! it's been rumored for months...
speaker3: wow. i can see why i was willing to betray e.i.o.
speaker2: i though you believed in our cause?
speaker3: yes. of course. that, too. they move into the crowd. the message on the loudspeaker is repeated.

speaker1: your servant, fahreem kuato. i greet you by the twenty-seven names that still remain, praying that you cast jewels into the darkness and given them to glow with the colors of life. 
speaker2: what use is this weirdo?
speaker3: ssssh...there are skills on mars that earth has forgotten.
speaker4: no need to introduce yourself, mr. quail. tolerate my presumption, but it does not tax my powers to know that you are the most sought-after man on two worlds.
speaker4: this way, my dear man. we have much to accomplish -- -- and very little time.

speaker1: the turbulence you hear outside is but a reflection of the turmoil within you. you have brought it to mars in your search for yourself. 
speaker2: and you're going to help me by reading my mind?
speaker1: indubitably. there is only small matter of a fee.

speaker1: a fee! 
speaker2: naturally.
speaker3: this is for our cause!
speaker4: income before ideals. shall we say five-hundred-thousand dollars?
speaker1: five-hundred-thousand martian dollars, that's...
speaker4: not martian dollars, mr.
speaker3: that's interplanetary robbery!
speaker1: with today's exchange rate... that's over two million martian dollars!
speaker4: what price do you put, mr. quail, on the future of the solar system?
speaker5: aw, come off it, man. just for a bit of mumbo-jumbo with a crystal ball.
speaker4: listen, buster, we're talking heavy stuff here. you try and work out what's with this guy!
speaker1: okay! okay! i'll pay it, but the interstellar trade practices commission might be interested in this. everyone calms down.
speaker4: retrieving the past is like walking backwards along a perilous road. the half-recalled, the half-forgotten, the repressed, the fantasies, the triumphs, joys, failures, betrayals...
speaker4: yes... i can feel it... a wall. erasure techniques are so brutal. blocks. side channels. future and past all jumbled. i shall have to enter deep trance to break through. i will be scanning you through the oracle head.

speaker1: open you thoughts to my presence... 
speaker1: open...

speaker1: charles! are you all right? 
speaker1: he kept dragging you deeper and deeper into the trance! we couldn't wake either of you!
speaker2: you stopped breathing!
speaker3: why did you kill him? it was the next bit i really...
speaker2: no choice, boss. it was him or you.
speaker4: -- the vengence you seek... and the salvation of mars... are waiting for you in the crown of the sphinx. the oracle head lets out a long sigh and goes limp, a small trickle of blood oozing from the corner of its mouth.
speaker2: phobos and demos! what was that all about?
speaker1: are you okay?... charles? doug? whoever?

speaker1: i'm fine... only i'm not doug -- i'm charles hauser... and i know everything hauser knew. 
speaker1: bennie, where's your depot?
speaker2: well... you go outta here... take a left, then down past the first... no second...
speaker1: can you get us there?
speaker2: no problem.
speaker3: but why?
speaker1: we're going to the sphinx.
speaker2: impossible, man. guards everywhere.
speaker3: the oracle... what did you learn?
speaker1: only everything. i've got total recall.

speaker1: we'll never get near the sphinx! they'll blow us apart! 
speaker2: what are we doing, charles?
speaker3: the sphinx... it's not some useless artifact, it's a machine built by some alien race eighteen millions years ago. the same race that built the on one earth... for the same purpose.
speaker3: this is what we need.
speaker1: it's a hunk of old stone, man.
speaker2: purpose? what purpose?
speaker3: come on, bennie, move it. have you heard the word, "terriform"?

speaker1: just deliverin' some old junk to the mine out at apidalia planitia. got them people you're lookin' for in the back as well. the guards laugh and signal him on. 
speaker2: the machine in the sphinx is tapped straight down to the molten core of this planet. there are tunnels and ducts everywhere, all powered by fusion generators...
speaker1: you sure the little man didn't fry your brain, quail?
speaker3: for what? to do what?
speaker2: to combine elements in the martian core and release them as oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen.
speaker1: that's air!

speaker1: that's right. air and water. terriforming will create a permanent livable environment for mars. no more pressurized cities, no more containers in the desert. there'll be rivers, vegetation - life - the same as earth. 
speaker2: so why is cohaagen shipping everyone out?
speaker1: don't you see?! from being a pile of red dirt with minerals, mars is going to change into a chunk of priceless real estate.
speaker2: and cohaagen's going to own it all!
speaker1: right! he can start selling it off to well-heeled investors from earth. beach condos, ski resorts, you name it.
speaker2: no wonder he wanted you to...
speaker1: once word of this gets out, the whole planet will support you.

speaker1: so what can we do? 
speaker2: ruin his little scheme by terriforming ahead of schedule - while the inhabitants are still here.
speaker1: but who'll work the machine?
speaker2: i'm the only one who does. why do you think cohaagen's left me alone all this time?
speaker2: i was the first one inside when they cracked the riddle of the sphinx. it must've been programmed. some kind of...force...shot into me.
speaker1: but cohaagen wiped your memory!!!
speaker2: just a way of putting me on ice. he'd of reversed it once the planet was evacuated.
speaker3: man! this is real complicated.

speaker1: bennie, don't stop now, take it... 
speaker2: you bastard.
speaker3: like i said. it's a tough planet. i'm a baddie, not a goodie.
speaker1: i should have known, you were just too helpful.
speaker3: eio rule one, man. trust nobody. now you can do your terriforming stuff right when those space shuttles are gone.
speaker2: but what about the martian people? out cause? i thought you believed in it.
speaker3: your cause? that bunch of dead beat radicals! when i hand in this little number... ...i'll get real estate rights on the whole of chryse planitia...

speaker1: the air supply is off under the domes? 
speaker2: yes, sir. in a couple of hours it'll be all gone.
speaker1: any trouble with the rabble?
speaker2: not much, sir. a lot of complaining. but they're all heading towards the shuttle areas.

speaker1: we got in with this thing, but we'll never get back out. 
speaker2: a shame. such a pleasant trip.

speaker1: this is the main tap -- straight down to the core of mars. when we trigger the mechanism, fusion reactors will detonate down there -- four hundred miles deep. 
speaker2: remind me not to slip.
speaker1: the new elements will come booming up through this shaft -- and six thousand others all around the planet.

speaker1: stay in contact. i want to hear from this checkpoint every four minutes. 
speaker2: did you hear something?
speaker3: no. where?
speaker2: over there.
speaker4: i'm not there, boys. i'm here.
speaker2: watch him. he was eio trained.
speaker3: yeah? like...who was that guy? -- fred bond?? keep 'em up, fred, keep 'em up.
speaker2: a hologram!

speaker1: where'd you get that little trick? 
speaker2: mail-order company. it's a great one for fooling the wife.

speaker1: how the did they get in? 
speaker2: up the fusion core.
speaker1: up the fusion core??
speaker2: they're on level one.
speaker1: seal all upper levels.

speaker1: catch! 
speaker2: great stuff, but how do we get up?

speaker1: if quail's the only one who can operate all this... ...then he can call all the shots. 
speaker2: we'll tell him the computer's worked out the operational details so we don't really need him. we're just doing him a favor.
speaker1: and if that doesn't work?
speaker2: we offer him rewards.
speaker1: what if that doesn't work?
speaker2: we'll torture him. you don't think i got this far by being a nice guy?

speaker1: seal the breach! repressurize! 
speaker2: those shuttles are starting up any minute. if you know how to work this thing, you better do it now.
speaker3: yes...
speaker2: don't you know how?
speaker3: yes... there's a vital connection missing...
speaker3: ...me...
speaker1: wait!
speaker2: don't wait!
speaker1: if you activate the mechanism you'll die...there were glimpses of it in your memory.
speaker3: wrong, cohaagen, there's a long tunnel, a brilliant white light, hands reaching for me...
speaker1: that's your death. that's what it looks like. that's what is always looks like.
speaker2: charles - for mars's sake....
speaker1: it's not too late. join us again. u've a lot to offer. a whole world. quail continues to look at him, thoughtfully.
speaker3: you don't deserve a new world, you and people like you made too big a mess of the old one. time someone else had a chance.

speaker1: in terror, lost, disoriented totally. 
speaker2: am i dying?
speaker3: i won't lie to you, pal. you are. miner i'd say in about forty years... ...come on, we've gotta get to the space port. that intergalactic napoleon's switched off the air.
speaker4: shippin' us all out. mars is finished.
speaker5: it's happening.
speaker6: what is it?
speaker2: that's just the start. next there'll be rain and growth and ... life.

