speaker1: of course, i've seen her films and always thought she was, well, fabulous -- but, you know, million miles from the world i live in. which is here -- notting hill -- not a bad place to be... 
speaker1: there's the market on weekdays, selling every fruit and vegetable known to man...
speaker1: the tattoo parlour -- with a guy outside who got drunk and now can't remember why he chose 'i love ken'...

speaker1: then suddenly it's the weekend, and from break of day, hundreds of stalls appears out of nowhere, filling portobello road right up to notting hill gate... 
speaker1: ... and thousands of people buy millions of antiques, some genuine...
speaker1: ... and some not so genuine.

speaker1: and what's great is that lots of friends have ended up in this part of london -- that's tony, architect turned chef, who recently invested all the money he ever earned in a new restaurant... 
speaker1: ... and where i now lead a strange half-life with a lodger called...

speaker1: spike! 
speaker2: even he. hey, you couldn't help me with an incredibly important decision, could you?
speaker1: this is important in comparison to, let's say, whether they should cancel third world debt?
speaker2: that's right -- i'm at last going out on a date with the great janine and i just want to be sure i've picked the right t-shirt.
speaker1: what are the choices?
speaker2: well... wait for it... first there's this one...
speaker1: yes -- might make it hard to strike a really romantic note.
speaker2: point taken.
speaker2: i suspect you'll prefer the next one.
speaker2: cool, huh?
speaker1: yes -- she might think you don't have true love on your mind.
speaker2: wouldn't want that... okay -- just one more.
speaker1: well, yes, that's perfect. well done.
speaker2: thanks. great. wish me luck.
speaker1: good luck.
speaker1: ... which, well, sells travel books -- and, to be frank with you, doesn't always sell many of those.

speaker1: shall i go get a cappuccino? ease the pain. 
speaker2: yes, better get me a half. all i can afford.
speaker3: i get your logic. demi-capu coming up.
speaker2: can i help you?
speaker4: no, thanks. i'll just look around.
speaker2: fine.
speaker2: that book's really not good -- just in case, you know, browsing turned to buying. you'd be wasting your money.
speaker4: really?
speaker2: yes. this one though is... very good.
speaker2: i think the man who wrote it has actually been to turkey, which helps. there's also a very amusing incident with a kebab.
speaker4: thanks. i'll think about it.
speaker2: if you could just give me a second.
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker5: yes.
speaker2: bad news.
speaker5: what?
speaker2: we've got a security camera in this bit of the shop.
speaker5: so?
speaker2: so, i saw you put that book down your trousers.
speaker5: what book?
speaker2: the one down your trousers.
speaker5: i haven't got a book down my trousers.
speaker2: right -- well, then we have something of an impasse. i tell you what -- i'll call the police -- and, what can i say? -- if i'm wrong about the whole book-down-the-trousers scenario, i really apologize.
speaker5: okay -- what if i did have a book down my trousers?
speaker2: well, ideally, when i went back to the desk, you'd remove the cadogan guide to bali from your trousers, and either wipe it and put it back, or buy it. see you in a sec.
speaker2: sorry about that...
speaker4: no, that's fine. i was going to steal one myself but now i've changed my mind. signed by the author, i see.
speaker2: yes, we couldn't stop him. if you can find an unsigned copy, it's worth an absolute fortune.
speaker5: excuse me.
speaker4: yes.
speaker5: can i have your autograph?
speaker4: what's your name?
speaker5: rufus.
speaker5: what does it say?
speaker4: well, that's the signature -- and above, it says 'dear rufus -- you belong in jail.'
speaker5: nice one. would you like my phone number?
speaker4: tempting but... no, thank you.
speaker4: i think i will try this one.
speaker2: oh -- right -- on second thoughts maybe it wasn't that bad. actually -- it's a sort of masterpiece really. none of those childish kebab stories you get in so many travel books these days. and i'll throw in one of these for free.
speaker2: very useful for lighting fires, wrapping fish, that sort of things.
speaker4: thanks.
speaker1: cappuccino as ordered.
speaker2: thanks. i don't think you'll believe who was just in here.
speaker1: who? someone famous?
speaker2: no. no-one -- no-one.
speaker1: would be exciting if someone famous did come into the shop though, wouldn't it? do you know -- this is pretty incredible actually -- i once saw ringo starr. or at least i think it was ringo. it might have been that broke from 'fiddler on the roof,' toppy.
speaker2: topol.
speaker1: that's right -- topol.
speaker2: but ringo starr doesn't look anything like topol.
speaker1: no, well... he was quite a long way away.
speaker2: so it could have been neither of them?
speaker1: i suppose so.
speaker2: right. it's not a classic anecdotes, is it?
speaker1: not classic, no.
speaker2: right -- want another one?
speaker1: yes. no, wait -- let's go crazy -- i'll have an orange juice.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: here, let me help.
speaker1: what are you doing?!
speaker2: nothing, nothing... look, i live just over the street -- you could get cleaned up.
speaker1: no thank you. i need to get my car back.
speaker2: i also have a phone. i'm confident that in five minutes we can have you spick and span and back on the street again... in the non-prostitute sense obviously.
speaker1: okay. so what does 'just over the street' mean -- give it to me in yards.
speaker2: eighteen yards. that's my house there.
speaker2: come on in. i'll just...
speaker2: it's not that tidy, i fear.
speaker2: the bathroom is right at the top of the stairs and there's a phone on the desk up there.

speaker1: would you like a cup of tea before you go? 
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: coffee?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: orange juice -- probably not.
speaker1: something else cold -- coke, water, some disgusting sugary drink pretending to have something to do with fruits of the forest?
speaker2: really, no.
speaker1: would you like something to nibble -- apricots, soaked in honey -- quite why, no one knows -- because it stops them tasting of apricots, and makes them taste like honey, and if you wanted honey, you'd just buy honey, instead of apricots, but nevertheless -- there we go -- yours if you want them.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: do you always say 'no' to everything?
speaker2: no. i better be going. thanks for your help.
speaker1: you're welcome and, may i also say... heavenly.
speaker1: take my one chance to say it. after you've read that terrible book, you're certainly not going to be coming back to the shop.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: yes. well. my pleasure.
speaker1: nice to meet you. surreal but nice.
speaker1: 'surreal but nice.' what was i thinking?
speaker1: coming.
speaker1: oh hi. forget something?
speaker2: i forgot my bag.
speaker1: oh right.
speaker1: here we go.
speaker2: thanks. well...
speaker1: i apologize for the 'surreal but nice' comment. disaster...
speaker2: don't worry about it. i thought the apricot and honey business was the real lowpoint.
speaker1: oh my my flatmate. i'm sorry -- there's no excuse for him.
speaker3: hi.
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: i'm just going to go into the kitchen to get some food -- and then i'm going to tell you a story that will make your shrink to the size of raisins.
speaker2: probably best not tell anyone about this.
speaker1: right. no one. i mean, i'll tell myself sometimes but... don't worry -- i won't believe it.
speaker2: bye.
speaker3: there's something wrong with this yogurt.
speaker1: it's not yogurt -- it's mayonnaise.
speaker3: well, there you go. on for a video fest tonight? i've got some absolute classic.

speaker1: smile. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: smile.
speaker2: i've got nothing to smile about.
speaker1: okay in about 7 seconds, i'm going to ask you to marry me.

speaker1: imagine -- somewhere in the world there's a man who's allowed to kiss her. 
speaker2: yes, she is fairly fabulous.

speaker1: do you have any books by dickens? 
speaker2: no, we're a travel bookshop. we only sell travel books.
speaker1: oh right. how about that new john grisham thriller?
speaker2: no, that's a novel too.
speaker1: oh right. have you got a copy of 'winnie the pooh'?
speaker2: martin -- your customer.
speaker3: can i help you?

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hi...

speaker1: just incidentally -- why are you wearing that? 
speaker2: ahm -- combination of factors really.
speaker1: there never will be, you know, unless you actually clean your clothes.
speaker2: right. vicious circle. and then i was like rooting around in your things, and found this, and i thought -- cool.

speaker1: there's something wrong with the goggles though... 
speaker2: no, they were prescription, so i could see all the fishes properly.
speaker1: groovy. you should do more of this stuff.
speaker2: so -- any messages?
speaker1: yeh, i wrote a couple down.
speaker2: two? that's it?
speaker1: you want me to write down all your messages?
speaker2: who were the ones you didn't write down from?
speaker1: ahm let's see -- ahm. no. gone completely. oh no, wait. there was -- one from your mum: she said don't forget lunch and her leg's hurting again.
speaker2: right. no one else?
speaker1: absolutely not.
speaker1: though if we're going for this obsessive writing-down-all-messages thing -- some american girl called anna called a few days ago.
speaker2: what did she say?
speaker1: well, it was genuinely bizarre... she said, hi -- it's anna -- and then she said, call me at the ritz -- and then gave herself a completely different name.
speaker2: which was?
speaker1: absolutely no idea. remembering one name's bad enough...

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: may i help you, sir?
speaker1: ahm, look this is a very odd situation. i'm a friend of anna scott's -- and she rang me at home the day before yesterday -- and left a message saying she's staying with you...

speaker1: i'm sorry, we don't have anyone of that name here, sir. 
speaker2: no, that's right -- i know that. she said she's using another name -- but the problem is she left the message with my flatmate, which was a serious mistake.
speaker1: yes, sir. i have him in my mind.
speaker2: and then double it -- and that is the -- what can i say -- git i'm living with and he cannot remember...
speaker3: try 'flintstone.'
speaker2: what?
speaker3: i think she said her name was 'flintstone.'
speaker2: does 'flintstone' mean anything to you?
speaker1: i'll put you right through, sir.
speaker2: oh my
speaker2: hello. hi. hi.
speaker4: hi.
speaker2: oh hi. it's william thacker. we, ahm i work in a bookshop.
speaker4: you played it pretty cool here, waiting for three days to call.
speaker2: no, i've never played anything cool in my entire life. spike, who i'll stab to death later, never gave me the message.
speaker4: oh -- okay.
speaker2: perhaps i could drop round for tea or something?
speaker4: yeh -- unfortunately, things are going to be pretty busy, but... okay, let's give it a try. four o'clock could be good.
speaker2: right. great. classic. classic.

speaker1: which floor? 
speaker2: three.

speaker1: are you sure you...? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: oh. right.
speaker3: hello, i'm karen. sorry -- things are running a bit late. here's the thing...

speaker1: what did you think of the film? 
speaker2: marvellous. 'close encounters' meets 'jean de florette.' oscar- winning stuff.
speaker3: i agree.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't get down what magazines you're from.
speaker2: 'time out.'
speaker1: great. and you...
speaker3: 'horse and hound.' the name's william whacker. i think she might be expecting me.
speaker1: okay -- take a seat. i'll check.
speaker2: you've brought her flowers?
speaker3: no -- they're... for my grandmother. she's in a hospital nearby. thought i'd kill two birds with one stone.
speaker2: i'm sorry. which hospital?
speaker3: do you mind me not saying -- it's a rather distressing disease and the name of the hospital rather gives it away.
speaker2: oh sure. of course.
speaker1: mr. thacker.

speaker1: you've got five minutes. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: i brought these, but clearly...
speaker3: oh no, ho -- these are great.
speaker2: sorry about not ringing back. the whole two-names concept was totally too much for my flatman's pea-sized intellect.
speaker3: no, it's a stupid privacy thing. i always choose a cartoon character -- last time out, i was mrs. bambi.
speaker4: everything okay?
speaker3: yes, thanks.
speaker4: and you are from 'horse and hound' magazine?
speaker3: is that so?
speaker2: so i'll just fire away, shall i?
speaker2: right. ahm... the film's great... and i just wondered -- whether you ever thought of having more...
speaker3: ahm -- well -- we would have liked to -- but it was difficult, obviously, being set in space.
speaker2: obviously. very difficult. jeremy leaves.
speaker2: i'm sorry -- i arrived outside -- they thrust this thing into my hand -- i didn't know what to do.
speaker3: no, it's my fault, i thought this would all be over by now. i just wanted to sort of apologize for the kissing thing. i seriously don't know what got in to me. i just wanted to make sure you were fine about it.
speaker2: absolutely fine about it.
speaker4: do remember that miss scott is also keen to talk about her next project, which is shooting later in the summer.
speaker2: oh yes -- excellent. ahm -- any horses in that one? or hounds, of course. our readers are equally intrigued by both species.
speaker3: it takes place on a submarine.
speaker2: yes. right... but if there were horses, would you be riding them yourself or would you be getting a stunt horse person double sort of thing?
speaker2: i'm just a complete moron. sorry. this is the sort of thing that happens in dreams -- not in real life. good dreams, obviously -- it's a dream to see you.
speaker3: and what happens next in the dream?
speaker2: well, i suppose in the dream dream scenario. i just... ahm, change my personality, because you can do that in dreams, and walk across and kiss the girl but you know it'll never happen.
speaker4: time's up, i'm afraid. sorry it was so short. did you get what you wanted?
speaker2: very nearly.
speaker4: maybe time for one last question?
speaker2: right.
speaker2: are you busy tonight?
speaker3: yes.
speaker3: well, it was nice to meet you.
speaker2: thank you. you are 'horse and hound's' favorite actress. you and black beauty. tied.

speaker1: how was she? 
speaker2: fabulous.
speaker1: wait a minute -- she took your grandmother's flowers?
speaker2: yes. that's right.
speaker3: if you'd like to come with me we can rush you through the others.
speaker2: the others?

speaker1: mr. thacker's from 'horse and hound.' 
speaker2: pleased to meet you. did you like the film?
speaker3: ah... yes, enormously.
speaker2: well, fire away.
speaker3: right, right. ahm -- did you enjoy making the film?
speaker2: i did.
speaker3: any bit in particular?
speaker2: well, you tell me which bit you liked most -- and i'll tell you if i enjoyed making it.
speaker3: ahm right, right, i liked the bit in space very much. did you enjoy making that bit?

speaker1: did you identify with the character you were playing? 
speaker2: te identicaste con el personaje que interpretabas?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: ah. why not?
speaker2: por que no?
speaker3: porque es un robot carnivoro psicopata.
speaker2: because he is playing a psychopathic flesh-eating robot.
speaker1: classic.

speaker1: is this your first film? 
speaker2: no -- it's my 22nd.
speaker1: of course it is. any favourite among the 22?
speaker2: working with leonardo.
speaker1: da vinci?
speaker2: di caprio.
speaker1: of course. and is he your favourite italian film director?

speaker1: mr. thacker? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: have you got a moment?
speaker3: come in.
speaker3: ahm. that thing i was doing tonight -- i'm not doing it any more. i told them i had to spend the evening with britain's premier equestrian journalist.
speaker2: oh well, great. perfect. oh no -- shittity brickitty -- it's my sister's birthday -- -- we're meant to be having dinner.
speaker3: okay -- fine.
speaker2: but no, i'm sure i can get out of it.
speaker3: no, i mean, if it's fine with you, i'll, you know, be your date.
speaker2: you'll be my date at my little sister's birthday party?
speaker3: if that's all right.
speaker2: i'm sure it's all right. my friend max is cooking and he's acknowledged to be the worst cook in the world, but you know, you could hide the food in your handbag or something.
speaker3: okay.
speaker2: okay.
speaker4: he's bringing a girl?
speaker5: miracles do happen.
speaker4: does the girl have a name?
speaker5: he wouldn't say.
speaker4: christ, what is going on in there?

speaker1: come on in. vague food crisis. 
speaker2: hiya -- sorry -- the guinea fowl is proving more complicated than expected.
speaker3: he's cooking guinea fowl?
speaker2: don't even ask.
speaker4: hi.
speaker2: hi. good lord -- you're the spitting image of...
speaker3: bella -- this is anna.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: okay. crisis over.
speaker3: max. this is anna.
speaker1: hello, anna ahm... scott -- have some wine.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker1: hi.
speaker1: yes, happy birthday.
speaker1: look, your brother has brought this girl, and ahm...
speaker5: hi guys. oh holy
speaker3: hun -- this is anna. anna -- this is honey -- she's my baby sitter.
speaker4: hiya.
speaker5: oh this is one of those key moments in life, when it's possible you can be really, genuinely cool -- and i'm going to fail a hundred percent. i absolutely and totally and utterly adore you and i think you're the most beautiful woman in the world and more importantly i genuinely believe and have believed for some time now that we can be best friends. what do you think?
speaker4: ahm... i think that sounds -- you know -- lucky me. happy birthday.
speaker5: oh my you gave me a present. we're best friends already. marry will -- he's a really nice guy and then we can be sisters.
speaker4: i'll think about it.
speaker1: that'll be bernie.
speaker1: hello, bernie.
speaker6: i'm sorry i'm so late. bollocksed up at work again, i fear. millions down the drain.
speaker1: bernie -- this is anna.
speaker6: hello, anna. delighted to meet you.
speaker6: honey bunny -- happy birthday to you. it's a hat. you don't have to wear it or anything.

speaker1: you haven't slept with her, have you? 
speaker2: that is a cheap question and the answer is, of course, no comment.
speaker1: 'no comment' means 'yes.'
speaker2: no, it doesn't.
speaker1: do you ever masturbate?
speaker2: definitely no comment.
speaker1: you see -- it means 'yes.' then on to bernie's conversation.
speaker3: so tell me anna -- what do you do?
speaker4: i'm an actress.
speaker3: splendid. i'm actually in the stock- market, so not really similar fields, though i have done some amateur stuff -- p.g. wodehouse, you know -- farce, all that. 'ooh -- careful there, vicar.' always imagined it's a pretty tough job, though, acting. i mean the wages are a scandal, aren't they?
speaker4: well, they can be.
speaker3: i see friends from university -- clever chaps -- been in the business longer than you -- they're scraping by on seven, eight thousand a year. it's no life. what sort of acting do you do?
speaker4: films mainly.
speaker3: oh splendid. well done. how's the pay in movies? i mean, last film you did, what did you get paid?
speaker4: fifteen million dollars.
speaker3: right. right. so that's... fairly good. on the high side... have you tried the nuts?
speaker1: right -- i think we're ready.
speaker4: i wonder if you could tell me where the...?
speaker5: oh, it's just down the corridor on the right.
speaker6: i'll show you.
speaker5: quickly, quickly -- talk very quickly what are you doing here with anna scott?
speaker3: anna scott?
speaker5: yes.
speaker3: the movie star?
speaker5: yup.
speaker3: oh oh oh goddy
speaker6: i don't believe it. i walked into the loo with her. i was still talking when she started unbuttoning her jeans...

speaker1: what do you think of the guinea fowl? 
speaker2: i'm a vegetarian.
speaker1: oh

speaker1: having you here, anna, firmly establishes what i've long suspected, that we really are the most desperate hot of under-achievers. 
speaker2: shame!
speaker1: i'm not saying it's a bad thing, in fact, i think it's something we should take pride in. i'm going to give the last brownie as a prize to the saddest act here. a little pause. then william turns to bernie.
speaker3: bernie.
speaker2: well, obviously it's me, isn't it -- i work in the city in a job i don't understand and everyone keeps getting promoted above me. i haven't had a girlfriends since... puberty and, well, the long and short of it is, nobody fancies me, and if these cheeks get any chubbier, they never will.
speaker4: nonsense. i fancy you. or i did before you got so far.
speaker1: you see -- and unless i'm much mistaken, your job still pays you rather a lot of money, while honey here, she earns nothing flogging her guts out at london's seediest record store.
speaker4: yes. and i don't have hair -- i've got feathers, and i've got funny goggly eyes, and i'm attracted to cruel men and ... no one'll ever marry me because my boosies have actually started shrinking.
speaker1: you see -- incredibly sad.
speaker5: on the other hand, her best friend is anna scott.
speaker4: that's true, i can't deny it. she needs me, what can i say?
speaker5: and most of her limbs work. whereas i'm stuck in its thing day and night, in a house full of ramps. and to add insult to serious injury -- i've totally given up smoking, my favourite thing, and the truth is... we can't have a baby.
speaker3: bella.
speaker2: no. not true...
speaker5: c'est la vie... we're lucky in lots of ways, but... surely it's worth a brownie.
speaker1: well, i don't know. look at william. very unsuccessful professionally. divorced. used to be handsome, now kind of squidgy around the edges -- and absolutely certain never to hear from anna again after she's heard that his nickname at school was floppy.
speaker3: so i get the brownie?
speaker1: i think you do, yes.
speaker6: wait a minute. what about me?
speaker1: i'm sorry? you think you deserve the brownie?
speaker6: well... a shot at it.
speaker3: you'll have to prove it. this is a great brownie and i'm going to fight for it. state your claim.
speaker6: well, i've been on a diet since i was nineteen, which means basically i've been hungry for a decade. i've had a sequence of not nice boyfriends -- one of whom hit me: and every time my heart gets broken it gets splashed across the newspapers as entertainment. meantime, it cost millions to get me looking like this...
speaker4: really?
speaker6: really -- and one day, not long from now...
speaker6: ... my looks will go, they'll find out i can't act and i'll become a sad middle-aged woman who looks a bit like someone who was famous for a while.
speaker1: nah!!! nice try, gorgeous -- but you don't fool anyone. the mood is instantly broken. they all laugh.
speaker3: pathetic effort to hog the brownie.
speaker6: that was such a great evening.
speaker1: i'm delighted.
speaker6: and may i say that's a gorgeous tie.
speaker1: now you're lying.
speaker6: you're right. i told you i was bad at acting.
speaker6: lovely to meet you.
speaker5: and you. i'll wait till you've gone before i tell him you're a vegetarian.
speaker1: no!
speaker6: night, night, honey.
speaker4: i'm so sorry about the loo thing. i meant to leave but i just... look, ring me if you need someone to go shopping with. i know lots of nice, cheap places... not that money necessarily... nice to meet you.
speaker6: you too -- from now on you are my style guru.
speaker2: love your work.

speaker1: sorry -- they always do that when i leave the house. 
speaker2: floppy, huh?
speaker1: it's the hair! it's to do with the hair.
speaker2: why is she in a wheelchair?
speaker1: it was an accident -- about eighteen months ago.
speaker2: and the pregnancy thing -- is that to do with the accident?
speaker1: you know, i'm not sure. i don't think they'd tried for kids before, as fate would have it.
speaker1: would you like to come... my house is just...?
speaker2: too complicated.
speaker1: that's fine.
speaker2: busy tomorrow?
speaker1: i thought you were leaving.
speaker2: i was.
speaker2: what's in there?
speaker1: gardens. all these streets round here have these mysterious communal gardens in the middle of them.
speaker2: let's go in.
speaker1: ah no -- that's the point -- they're private villages -- only the people who live round the edges are allowed in.
speaker2: you abide by rules like that?
speaker1: ahm...
speaker1: heck no -- other people do -- but not me -- i just do what i want.
speaker1: whoopsidaisies.
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: yes, you did.
speaker1: no, i didn't.
speaker2: you said 'whoopsidaisies.' tiny pause.
speaker1: i don't think so. no one has said 'whoopsidaisies,' do they -- i mean unless they're...
speaker2: there's no 'unless.' no one has said "whoopsidaisies" for fifty years and even then it was only little girls with blonde ringlets.
speaker1: exactly. here we go again. he fails, and unfortunately, spontaneously...
speaker1: whoopsidaisies.
speaker1: it's a disease i've got -- it's a clinical thing. i'm taking pills and having injections -- it won't last long.
speaker2: step aside.
speaker1: actually be careful anna -- it's harder than it looks...
speaker1: oh no it's not -- it's easy.
speaker2: come on, flops.
speaker1: now seriously -- what in the world in this garden could make that ordeal worthwhile?
speaker1: nice garden.

speaker1: 'for june, who loved this garden -- from joseph who always sat beside her.' 
speaker1: some people do spend their whole lives together.

speaker1: bollocks, bollocks, bollocks. have you seen my glasses? 
speaker2: no, 'fraid not.
speaker1: bollocks. this happens every time i go to the cinema. average day, my glasses are everywhere -- everywhere i look, glasses. but the moment i need them they disappear. it's one of life's real cruelties.
speaker2: that's compared to, like, earthquakes in the far east or testicular cancer?
speaker1: oh is that the time? i have to go.
speaker1: thanks for your help on the glasses thing.
speaker2: you're welcome. did you find them?
speaker1: sort of.

speaker1: so who left who? 
speaker2: she left me.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: she saw through me.
speaker1: uh-oh. that's not good.
speaker3: no - no- no! give me anna scott any day.
speaker4: i didn't like that last film of hers. fast asleep from the moment the lights went down.
speaker3: don't really care what the films are like. any film with her in it -- fine by me.
speaker4: no -- not my type at all really. i prefer that other one -- blonde -- sweet looking -- has an every time you take her out for a cup of coffee.
speaker3: meg ryan.
speaker4: drug-induced, i hear -- i believe she's actually in rehab as we speak.
speaker3: whatever, she's so clearly up for it.
speaker3: you know -- some girls, they're all 'stay away chum' but anna, she's absolutely gagging for it. do you know that in over fifty percent of languages the word for "actress" is the same as the word for "prostitute." this is horrible.
speaker3: and anna is your definitive actress -- someone really filthy you can just flip over...
speaker2: right, that's it.
speaker2: i'm sorry to disturb you guys but --
speaker3: can i help you?
speaker2: well, yes, i wish i hadn't overheard your conversation -- but i did and i just think, you know...
speaker2: ...the person you're talking about is a real person and i think she probably deserves a little bit more consideration, rather than having jerks like you drooling over her...
speaker3: oh sod off, mate. what are you, her dad?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: no, that's fine. i love that you tried... time was i'd have done the same.
speaker1: in fact -- give me a second.
speaker1: hi.
speaker3: oh my
speaker1: i'm sorry about my friend -- he's very sensitive.
speaker3: no, look, i'm sorry...
speaker1: please, please -- let's just leave it there. i'm sure you meant no harm, and i'm sure it was just friendly banter and i'm sure you are all the size of peanuts. a perfect match for the size of your brains. enjoy your meal. the tuna's really good. and she walks away. gerald turns to lawrence.
speaker4: you prick.
speaker1: i shouldn't have done that. i shouldn't have done that.
speaker2: no, you were brilliant
speaker1: i'm rash and i'm stupid and what am i doing with you?
speaker2: i don't know, i'm afraid.
speaker1: i don't know either.
speaker1: here we are. do you want to come up?
speaker2: there seem to be lots of reasons why i shouldn't.
speaker1: there are lots of reasons. do you want to come up?
speaker1: give me five minutes.

speaker1: hiya. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker2: to be able to do that is such a wonderful thing.
speaker1: you've got to go.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: because my boyfriend, who i thought was in america, is in fact in the next room.
speaker2: your boyfriend?
speaker1: yes...
speaker3: who is it?
speaker2: ahm... room service.
speaker3: how you doing? i thought you guys all wore those penguin coats.
speaker2: well, yes -- usually -- i'd just changed to go home -- but i thought i'd just deal with this final call.
speaker3: oh great. could you do me a favour and try to get us some really cold water up here?
speaker2: i'll see what i can do.
speaker3: still, not sparkling.
speaker2: absolutely. ice cold still water.
speaker3: unless it's illegal in the uk to serve liquids below room temperature: i don't want you going to jail just to satisfy my whims...
speaker2: no, i'm sure it'll be fine.
speaker3: and maybe you could just adios the dishes and empty the trash.
speaker2: right.
speaker1: really -- don't do that -- i'm sure this is not his job.
speaker3: i'm sorry. is this a problem?
speaker2: ah -- no. it's fine.
speaker3: what's your name?
speaker2: ahm... bernie.
speaker3: thank you, bernie. hey -- nice surprise, or nasty surprise?
speaker1: nice surprise.
speaker3: liar. she hates surprises. what are you ordering?
speaker1: i haven't decided.
speaker3: well, don't over-do it. i don't want people saying, 'there goes that famous actor with the big, fat girlfriend." he wanders off taking off his t-shirt.
speaker2: i better leave.
speaker2: -- this is a fairly strange reality to be faced with. to be honest, i don't realize...
speaker1: i'm sorry... i don't know what to say.
speaker2: i think goodbye is traditional.

speaker1: come on -- open up -- this is me -- spikey -- i'm in contact with some quite important spiritual vibrations. what's wrong? 
speaker2: well, okay. there's this girl...
speaker1: aha! i'd been getting a female vibe.
speaker2: she's someone i just can't -- someone who... self-evidently can't be mine -- and it's as if i've taken love-heroin -- and now i can't even have it again. i've opened pandora's box. and there's trouble inside.
speaker1: yeh. yeh... tricky... tricky... i knew a girl at school called pandora ... never got to see her box though.
speaker2: thanks. yes -- very helpful.

speaker1: you didn't know she had a boyfriend? 
speaker2: no -- did you?
speaker2: hell, i can't believe it -- my whole life ruined because i don't read 'hello' magazine.
speaker1: let's face facts. this was always a no-go situation. anna's a goddess and you know what happens to mortals who get involved with the gods.
speaker2: buggered?
speaker1: every time. but don't despair -- i think i have the solution to your problems.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: her name is tessa and she works in the contracts department. the hair, i admit, is unfashionable frizzy -- but she's as bright as a button and kisses like a nymphomaniac on death row. apparently.

speaker1: now -- try. 
speaker2: i got completely lost -- it's real difficult, isn't it? everything's got the word 'kensington' in it -- kensington park road, kensington gardens, kensington park gardens...
speaker1: tessa -- this is bella my wife.
speaker2: oh hello, you're in a wheelchair.
speaker3: that's right.
speaker1: and this is william.
speaker2: hello william. max has told me everything about you.
speaker4: has he?
speaker1: wine?
speaker2: oh yes please. come on, willie, let's get sloshed.

speaker1: keziah -- some woodcock? 
speaker2: no, thank you -- i'm a fruitarian.
speaker1: i don't realize that.
speaker3: and ahm -- what's a fruitarian exactly?
speaker2: we believe that fruits and vegetables have feelings so we think cooking is cruel. we only eat things that have actually fallen from the tree or bush -- that are, in fact, dead already.
speaker3: right. right. interesting stuff. so these carrots...
speaker2: have been murdered, yes.
speaker3: murdered? poor carrots. how beastly.

speaker1: delicious coffee. 
speaker2: thank you. i'm sorry about the lamb.
speaker1: no -- i thought it was really, you know, interesting.
speaker3: interesting means inedible.
speaker1: really inedible -- yes that's right.

speaker1: maybe we'll meet again some time. 
speaker2: yes. that would be... great.
speaker3: well?
speaker2: she's perfect, perfect.
speaker4: and?
speaker2: i think you have forgotten... what an unusual situation you have here -- to find someone you actually love, who'll love you -- the chances are... always miniscule. look at me -- not counting the american -- i've only loved two girls in my whole life, both total disasters.
speaker3: that's not fair.
speaker2: no really, one of them marries me and then leaves me quicker than you can say indiana jones -- and the other, who seriously ought to have known better, casually marries my best friend.
speaker4: still loves you though.
speaker2: in a depressingly asexual way.
speaker4: i never fancied you much actually...
speaker4: i mean i loved you -- you were terribly funny. but all that kissing my ears...
speaker2: oh no -- this is just getting worse. i am going to find myself, 30 years from now, still on this couch.
speaker4: do you want to stay?
speaker2: why not -- all that awaits me at home is a masturbating welshman.

speaker1: hi. can i come in? 
speaker2: come in.
speaker1: they were taken years ago -- i know it was... well, i was poor and it happens a lot -- that's not an excuse -- but to make things worse, it now appears someone was filming me as well. so what was a stupid photo- shoot now looks like a film. and well... the pictures have been solid and they're everywhere.
speaker1: i don't know where to go. the hotel is surrounded.
speaker2: this is the place.
speaker1: thank you. i'm just in london for two days -- but, with your papers, it's the worse place to be.
speaker1: these are such horrible pictures. they're so grainy... they make me look like...
speaker2: don't think about it. we'll sort it out. now what would you like -- tea ... bath...?
speaker1: a bath would be great.

speaker1: christ alive... brilliant... fantastic .... magnificent... 
speaker2: you must be spike.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: just checking.

speaker1: i'm really sorry about last time. he just flew in -- i had no idea -- in fact, i had no idea if he'd ever fly in again. 
speaker2: no, that's fine. it's not often one has the opportunity to adios the plates of a major hollywood star. it was a thrill for me. how is he?
speaker1: i don't know. it got to the point where i couldn't remember any of the reasons i loved him. and you... and love?
speaker2: well, there's a question -- without an interesting answer.
speaker1: i have thought about you.
speaker2: oh no no -- no.
speaker1: just anytime i've tried to keep things normal with anyone normal -- it's been a disaster.
speaker2: i appreciate that absolutely. is that the film you're doing?
speaker1: yes -- start in l.a. on tuesday.
speaker2: would you like me to take you through your lines?
speaker1: would you? it's all talk, talk, talk.
speaker2: hand it over. basic plot?
speaker1: i'm a difficult but brilliant junior officer who in about twenty minutes will save the world from nuclear disaster.
speaker2: well done you.

speaker1: 'message from command. would you like them to send in the hks?' 
speaker2: 'no, turn over 4 trs's and tell them we need radar feedback before the kft's return at 19 hundred -- then inform the pentagon that we'll be needing black star cover from ten hundred through 12.15' -- and don't you dare say one word about how many mistakes i made in that speech or i'll pelt you with olives.
speaker1: 'very well, captain -- i'll pass that on straightaway.'
speaker2: 'thank you.' how many mistake did i make?
speaker1: eleven.
speaker2: 'and wainwright...'
speaker1: cartwright.
speaker2: 'cartwright, wainwright, whatever your name is, i promised little jimmy i'd be home for his birthday -- could you get a message through that i may be a little late.'
speaker1: 'certainly. and little johnny?'
speaker2: my son's name is johnny?
speaker1: yup.
speaker2: well, get a message through to him too.
speaker1: brilliant. word perfect i'd say.
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker1: gripping. it's not jane austen, it's not henry james, but it's gripping.
speaker2: you think i should do henry james instead?
speaker1: i'm sure you'd be great in henry james. but, you know -- this writer's pretty good too.
speaker2: yes -- i mean -- you never get anyone in 'wings of a dove' having the nerve to say 'inform the pentagon that we need black star cover.'
speaker1: and i think the book is the poorer for it.

speaker1: i can't believe you have that picture on your wall. 
speaker2: you like chagall?
speaker1: i do. it feels like how being in love should be. floating through a dark blue sky.
speaker2: with a goat playing a violin.
speaker1: yes -- happiness wouldn't be happiness without a violin-playing goat.
speaker3: voila. carnival calypso, for the queen of notting hill -- pepperoni, pineapple and a little more pepperoni.
speaker1: fantastic.
speaker2: i don't mention that anna's a vegetarian, did i?
speaker3: i have some parsnip stew from last week. if i just peel the skin off, it'll be perfect.

speaker1: you've got big feet. 
speaker2: yes. always have had.
speaker1: you know what they say about men with big feet?
speaker2: no. what's that?
speaker1: big feet -- large shoes.

speaker1: the thing that's so irritating is that now i'm so totally fierce when it comes to clauses. 
speaker2: you actually have clauses in your contact about nudity?
speaker1: definitely. 'you may show the dent at the top of the artist's buttocks -- but neither cheek. in the event of a stunt person being used, the artist must have full consultation.'
speaker2: you have a stunt bottom?
speaker1: i could have a stunt bottom, yes.
speaker2: would you be tempted to go for a slightly better bottom than your own?
speaker1: definitely. ths is important stuff.
speaker2: it's one of a job. what do you put on your passport? profession -- mel gibson's bottom.
speaker1: actually, mel does his own work.
speaker2: the ice cream or mel gibson's bottom?
speaker1: both.

speaker1: today has ben a good day. which under the circumstances is... unexpected. 
speaker2: well, thank you. anyway -- time for bed. or...
speaker1: right.

speaker1: oh my hello. 
speaker2: hello. i wonder if i could have a little word.
speaker1: spike.
speaker2: i don't want to interfere, or anything ... but she's split up from her boy- friend, that's right isn't it?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: and she's in your house.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: and you get on very well.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well, isn't this perhaps a good opportunity to... slip her one?
speaker1: spike. for sake -- she's in trouble -- get a grip.
speaker2: right. right. you think it's the wrong moment. fair enough. do you mind if i have a go?
speaker1: spike!
speaker2: no -- you're right.
speaker1: i'll talk to you in the morning.
speaker2: okay -- okay. might be too late, but okay.
speaker1: oh please sod off.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: no! no. wait. i... thought you were someone else. i thought you were spike. i'm delighted you're not.

speaker1: wow. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing.

speaker1: it still strikes me as, well, surreal, that i'm allowed to see you naked. 
speaker2: you and every person in this country.
speaker1: oh yes -- i'm sorry.
speaker2: what is it about men and nudity? particularly -- how can you be so interested in them?
speaker1: well...
speaker2: no seriously. i mean, they're just breasts. every second person in the world has got them...
speaker1: more than that actually, when you think about it. you know, meatloaf has a very nice pair...
speaker2: but... they're odd-looking. they're for milk. your mum's got them. you must have seen a thousand of them -- what's the fuss about?
speaker1: actually, i can't think really -- let me just have a quick look...
speaker1: no, beats me.
speaker2: rita hayworth used to say -- 'they go to bed with gilda -- they wake up with me.' do you feel that?
speaker1: who was gilda?
speaker2: her most famous part -- men went to bed with the dream -- and they didn't like it when they woke up with the reality -- do you feel that way with me?
speaker1: you're lovelier this morning than you have ever been.
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: i'll be back.

speaker1: breakfast in bed. or lunch, or brunch. 
speaker1: can i stay a bit longer?
speaker2: stay forever.
speaker1: damn, i forgot the jam.
speaker1: you get the door, i'll get the jam.

speaker1: christ. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: don't ask.
speaker2: you're up to something...
speaker2: oh my and they got a photo of you dressed like that?
speaker1: undressed like this, yes.
speaker2: 

speaker1: morning, daring ones. 
speaker2: it's anna. the press are here. no, there are hundreds of them. my brilliant plan was not so brilliant after all. yeh, i know, i know. just get me out then. damnit.
speaker3: i wouldn't go outside.
speaker1: why not?
speaker3: just take my work for it.

speaker1: how did i look? 
speaker1: not bad. no bad at all. well-chosen briefs, i'd say. chicks love grey.

speaker1: how are you doing? 
speaker2: how do you think i'm doing?
speaker1: i don't know what happened.
speaker2: i do. your furry friend thought he'd make a buck or two telling the papers where i was.
speaker1: that's not true.
speaker2: really? the entire british press just woke up this morning and thought 'hey -- i know where anna scott is. she's in that house with the blue door in notting hill.' and then you go out in your underwear.
speaker3: i went out in my underwear too.
speaker1: get out, spike. i'm so sorry.
speaker2: this is such a mess. i come to you to protect myself against more crappy gossip and now i'm landed in it all over again. for sake, i've got a boyfriend.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: as far as they're concerned i do. and now tomorrow there'll be pictures of you in every newspapers from here to timbuktu.
speaker1: i know, i know -- but... just -- let's stay calm...
speaker2: you can stay calm -- it's the perfect situation for you -- minimum input, maximum publicity. everyone you ever bump into will know. 'well done you -- you slept with that actress -- we've seen the pictures.'
speaker1: that's spectacularly unfair.
speaker2: who knows, it may even help business. buy a boring book about egypt from the guy who screwed anna scott.

speaker1: now stop. stop. i beg you -- calm down. 
speaker2: i don't want a cup of tea. i want to go home.
speaker1: spike, check who that is... and for sake put some clothes on.
speaker3: looks like a chauffeur to me.
speaker2: and remember -- spike owes you an expensive dinner. or holiday -- depending if he's got the brains to get the going rate on betrayal.
speaker1: that's not true. and wait a minute... this is crazy behavior. can't we just laugh about this? seriously -- in the huge sweep of things, this stuff doesn't matter.
speaker3: what he's going to say next is -- there are people starving in the sudan.
speaker1: well, there are. and we don't need to go anywhere near that far. my best friend slipped -- she slipped down- stairs, cracked her back and she's in a wheelchair for the rest of her life. all i'm asking for is a normal amount of perspective.
speaker2: you're right: of course, you're right. it's just that i've dealt with this garbage for ten years now -- you've had it for ten minutes. our perspectives are different.
speaker1: i mean -- today's newspapers will be lining tomorrow's waste paper bins.
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: well, you know -- it's just one day. today's papers will all have been thrown away tomorrow.
speaker2: you really don't get it. this story gets filed. every time anyone writes anything about me -- they'll dig up these photos. newspapers last forever. i'll regret this forever.
speaker1: right. fine. i will do the opposite, if it's all right by you -- and always be glad you came. but you're right -- you probably better go.
speaker1: was it you?
speaker3: i suppose i might have told one or two people down the pub.
speaker1: right. he puts his head in his hands. it's over now.

speaker1: have we got something for you. something which will make you love me so much you'll want to hug me every single day for the rest of my life. 
speaker2: blimey. what's that?
speaker1: the phone number of anna scott's agent in london and her agent in new york. you can ring her. you think about her all the time -- now you can ring her!
speaker2: well, thanks, that's great.
speaker1: it is great, isn't it. see you tonight. hey, marty-- cardy.

speaker1: i have a little speech to make -- i won't stand up because i can't... be bothered. exactly a year ago today, this man here started the finest restaurant in london. 
speaker2: thank you very much.
speaker1: unfortunately -- no one ever came to eat here.
speaker2: a tiny hiccough.
speaker1: and so we must face the fact that from next week, we have to find somewhere near to eat.
speaker1: i just want to say to tony -- don't take it personally. the more i think about things, the more i see no rhyme or reason in life -- no one knows why some things work out, and some things don't -- why some of us get lucky -- and some of us...
speaker3: ... get fired.
speaker1: no!
speaker3: yes, they're shifting the whole outfit much more towards the trading side -- and of course... i was total crap.
speaker2: so we go down together! a toast to bernie -- the worst stockbroker in the whole world!
speaker4: since it's an evening of announcements ... i've also got one, ahm... i've decided to get engaged.
speaker4: i've found myself a nice, slightly odd looking bloke who i know is going to make me happy for the rest of my life.
speaker5: wait a minute -- i'm your brother and i don't know anything about this.
speaker6: is it someone we know?
speaker4: yes. i will keep you informed.
speaker4: by the way -- it's you.
speaker7: me?
speaker4: yes. what do you think?
speaker7: well, yes. groovy.
speaker6: any more announcements?
speaker5: yes -- i feel i must apologize to everyone for my behavior for the last six months. i have, as you know, been slightly down in the mouth.
speaker6: there's an understatement. there are dead people on better form.
speaker5: but i wish to make it clear i've turned a corner and henceforward intend to be impressively happy.

speaker1: i'm really horribly drunk. 
speaker2: so -- you've laid the ghost.
speaker3: i believe i have.
speaker2: don't give a about the famous girl.
speaker3: no, don't think i do.
speaker2: which means you won't be distracted by the fact that she's back in london, grasping her oscar, and to be found filming most days on hampstead heath.
speaker3: oh no.
speaker2: so not over her, in fact.

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: yes -- i was looking for anna scott...
speaker1: does she know you're coming?
speaker2: no, no. she doesn't.
speaker1: i'm afraid i can't really let you through then, sir.
speaker2: oh right. i mean, i am a friend -- i'm not a lunatic but -- no, you basically...
speaker1: ... can't let you through.
speaker3: this is certainly... ah...
speaker2: i only found out you were here yesterday.
speaker3: i was going to ring... but... i didn't think you'd want to...
speaker4: anna.
speaker3: it's not going very well -- and it's our last day.
speaker2: absolutely -- you're clearly very busy.
speaker3: but... wait... there are things to say.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: drink tea -- there's lots of tea.
speaker5: come and have a look...
speaker5: are you a fan of henry james?
speaker2: this is henry james film?

speaker1: this is harry -- he'll give you a pair of headphones so you can hear the dialogue. 
speaker2: here we go. the volume control is on the side.
speaker3: that's great.
speaker4: we are living in cloudcuckooland -- we'll never get this done today.
speaker5: we have to. i've got to be in new york on thursday.
speaker4: oh, stop showing off.
speaker4: that's an enormous arse.
speaker5: i'm not listening.
speaker4: no, but seriously -- it's not fair -- so many tragic young teenagers with anorexia -- and that girl has an she could perfectly well share round with at least ten other women -- and still be beg-bottomed.
speaker5: i said i'm not listening -- and i think, looking at something that firm, you and your droopy little excuse for an 'arse' would be well-advised to keep quiet.
speaker5: so i ask you when you're going to tell everyone, and you say...?
speaker4: 'tomorrow will be soon enough.'
speaker5: and then i... right.
speaker4: who was that rather difficult chap you were talking to on the way up?
speaker5: oh... no one... no one. just some... guy from the past. i don't know what he's doing here. bit of an awkward situation.
speaker3: of course.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: anytime.

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: i'm going to throw out these old videos.
speaker1: no. you can't bin these. they're classics. i'm not allowing this.
speaker2: right -- let's talk about rent...
speaker1: let me help. we don't want all this cluttering up our lives.

speaker1: i have to disturb you when you're cooking the books, but there's a delivery. 
speaker2: martin, can't you just deal with this yourself?
speaker1: but it's not for the shop. it's for you.
speaker2: okay. tell me, would i have to pay a wet rag as much as i pay you?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: you disappeared.
speaker2: yes -- i'm sorry -- i had to leave... i didn't want to disturb you.
speaker1: well... how have you been?
speaker2: fine. everything much the same. when they change the law spike and i will marry immediately. whereas you...

speaker1: oh no. it's all nonsense, believe me. i had no idea how much nonsense it all was -- but nonsense it all is... well, yesterday was our last day filming and so i'm just off -- but i brought you this from home, and... 
speaker1: i thought i'd give it to you.
speaker2: thank you. shall i...
speaker1: no, don't open it yet -- i'll be embarrassed.
speaker2: okay -- well, thank you. i don't know what it's for. but thank you anyway.
speaker1: i actually had it in my apartment in new york and just thought you'd... but, when it came to it, i didn't know how to call you... having behaved so... badly, twice. so it's been just sitting in the hotel. but then... you came, so i figured... the thing is... the thing is

speaker1: what's the thing? 
speaker1: don't even think about it. go away immediately.
speaker2: right. sorry.
speaker1: you were saying...
speaker3: yes. the thing is... i have to go away today but i wondered, if i didn't, whether you might let me see you a bit... or, a lot maybe... see if you could... like me again.
speaker1: but yesterday... that actor asked you who i was... and you just dismissed me out of hand... i heard -- you had a microphone... i had headphones.
speaker3: you expect me to tell the truth about my life to the most indiscreet man in england? martin edges up.
speaker4: excuse me -- it's your mother on the phone.
speaker1: can you tell her i'll ring her back.
speaker4: i actually tried that tack -- but she said you said that before and it's been twenty-four hours, and her foot that was purple is now a sort of blackish color...
speaker1: okay -- perfect timing as ever -- hold the fort for a second will you, martin?
speaker4: can i just say, i thought 'ghost' was a wonderful film.
speaker3: is that right?
speaker4: yes... i've always wondered what patrick swayze is like in real life.
speaker3: i can't say i know patrick all that well.
speaker4: oh dear. he wasn't friendly during the filming?
speaker3: well, no -- i'm sure he was friendly -- to demi moore -- who acted with him in 'ghost.' she's kind in here, not sarcastic.
speaker4: oh right. right. sorry. always been a bit of an ass.
speaker4: anyway... it's lovely to meet you. i'm a great fan of yours. and demi's, of course.
speaker1: sorry about that.
speaker3: that's fine. there's always a pause when the jury goes out to consider its verdict.
speaker1: anna. look -- i'm a fairly level- headed bloke. not often in and out of love. but...
speaker1: ... can i just say 'no' to your kind request and leave it at that?
speaker3: ... yes, that's fine. of course. i... you know... of course... i'll just... be getting along then... nice to see you.
speaker1: the truth is...
speaker1: ... with you, i'm in real danger. it took like a perfect situation, apart from that foul temper of yours -- but my relatively inexperienced heart would, i fear, not recover if i was once again ... cast aside, which i would absolutely expect to be. there are too many pictures of you everywhere, too many films. you'd go and i'd be...
speaker3: i see. that reality is a real 'no,' isn't it?
speaker1: i live in notting hill. you live in beverly hills. everyone in the world knows who you are. my mother has trouble remembering my name.
speaker3: okay. fine. fine. good decision.
speaker3: the fame thing isn't really real, you know. don't forget -- i'm also just a girl. standing in front of a boy. asking him to love her.
speaker3: bye.

speaker1: what do you think? good move? 
speaker2: good move: when all is said and done, she's nothing special. i saw her taking her pants off and i definitely glimpsed some cellulite down there.
speaker3: good decision. all actresses are mad as snakes.
speaker1: tony -- what do you think?
speaker4: never met her, never want to.
speaker1: brilliant. max?
speaker5: absolutely. never trust a vegetarian.
speaker1: great. excellent. thanks.
speaker6: i was called and i came. what's up?
speaker2: william has just turned down anna scott.
speaker6: you daft prick!
speaker3: this painting isn't the original, is it?
speaker1: yes, i think that one may be.
speaker7: but she said she wanted to go out with you?
speaker1: yes -- sort of...
speaker7: that's nice.
speaker1: what?
speaker7: well, you know, anybody saying they want to go out with you is... pretty great... isn't it...
speaker1: it was sort of sweet actually -- i mean, i know she's an actress and all that, so she can deliver a line -- but she said that she might be as famous as can be -- but also... that she was just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her.
speaker1: oh sod a dog. i've made the wrong decision, haven't i?
speaker1: max, how fast is your car?

speaker1: if anyone gets in our way -- we have small nuclear devices. 
speaker2: and we intend to use them!
speaker1: where's bella?
speaker3: she's not coming.
speaker1: sod that. bernie -- in the back!
speaker1: come on, babe.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: down kensington church street, then knightsbridge, then hyde park corner.
speaker1: crazy. go along bayswater...
speaker3: that's right -- then park lane.
speaker4: or you could go right down to cromwell road, and left.
speaker5: no!
speaker2: stop right there! i will decide the route. all right?
speaker6: all right.
speaker2: james bond never has to put up with this sort of

speaker1: is miss scott staying here? 
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: how about miss flintstone?
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: or bambi... or, i don't know, beavis or butthead?
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker1: right. right. fair enough. thanks.
speaker2: there was a miss pocahontas in room 126 -- but she checked out an hour ago. i believe she's holding a press conference at the savoy before flying to america.
speaker3: we have lift off!!

speaker1: this for a bunch of bananas. 
speaker1: go!
speaker2: you're my hero.
speaker3: go!
speaker4: excuse me, where's the press conference?
speaker5: are you an accredited member of the press?
speaker4: yes...
speaker5: that's a blockbuster video membership card, sir.
speaker4: that's right... i work for their in- house magazine. 'movies are our business.'
speaker5: i'm sorry, sir...
speaker6: he's with me.
speaker5: and you are?
speaker6: writing an article about how london hotels treat people in wheelchairs.
speaker5: of course, madam. it's in the lancaster room. i'm afraid you're very late.
speaker2: run!

speaker1: yes... you -- dominic. 
speaker2: how much longer are you staying in the uk then?
speaker3: no time at all. i fly out tonight.
speaker1: which is why we have to round it up now. final questions. he points at a journalist he knows.
speaker4: is your decision to take a year off anything to do with the rumours about jeff and his present leading lady?
speaker3: absolutely not.
speaker5: do you believe the rumours?
speaker3: it's really not my business any more. though i will say, from my experience, that rumours about jeff... do tend to be true.

speaker1: he was just a friend -- i think we're still friends. 
speaker2: yes, the gentleman in the pink shirt.
speaker3: yes -- miss scott -- are there any circumstances in which you two might be more than just friends?
speaker1: i hoped there might be -- but no, i'm assured there aren't.
speaker3: and what would you say...
speaker2: no, it's just one question per person.
speaker1: no, let him... ask away. you were saying?
speaker3: yes, i just wondered whether if it turned out that this... person...
speaker4: his name is thacker.
speaker3: thanks. i just wondered if mr. thacker realized he'd been a daft and got down on his knees and begged you to reconsider, whether you would... reconsider.
speaker1: yes, i'm pretty sure i would.
speaker3: that's very good news. the readers of 'horse and hound' will be absolutely delighted.
speaker2: dominic -- if you'd like to ask your question again?
speaker5: yes -- anna -- how long are you intending to stay here in britain?
speaker1: indefinitely.
speaker6: what happened?
speaker7: it was good.

