speaker1: in accordance with the regulations of the state of mississippi, we gather here today to lay to rest the remains of inmates r. gibson, number 4316, and c. banks, number 4317. ashes to ashes, dust to dust. may have mercy on their souls. 
speaker2: go ahead, fellas.
speaker3: i'll come back for you in a little while, willie...
speaker4: these two guys friends of yours, old man?
speaker5: we spent some time together.
speaker6: why do i get the feeling when you say some time, you mean some time.
speaker5: i was already here a good many years when they came in in 1932.
speaker6: 1932? that's like, that's like...
speaker5: sixty-five years ago. they always said the farm couldn't hold 'em forever. looks like you're finally free, boys.
speaker4: hey, the dude's holdin'.
speaker6: come on, old-timer, hook the brothers up.
speaker6: of a way to get out. heard they burned up in that fire yesterday.
speaker4: i seen the bodies before they sealed 'em up. them fellas sizzled up good. looked like some from the x- files. damn, that shit's nasty.
speaker5: ray's special recipe. he always had exacting standards where the hooch was concerned.
speaker6: what were they, bootleggers?
speaker5: something like that.

speaker1: oh, no, ray. not tonight. spanky's not happy with you. 
speaker2: is spanky here?
speaker1: no, but...
speaker2: then what's the problem?
speaker1: do yourself a favor and find another place where they let you in the front door.
speaker2: but this is where the action is and i have to be where the action is. look, when your old lady wanted those alligator shoes, didn't i come through for you? ain't she stepping in style now?
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: well, alright then. what do you think about this new tie?
speaker1: sharp.
speaker2: i look good tonight. and i feel lucky, too.
speaker1: anyone asks, it wasn't me who let you in.
speaker3: don't even try it.
speaker2: when do you get off?
speaker3: i get off at two, but you ain't never getting off.
speaker4: you can't drink that in here, ray.
speaker2: i sure can't drink that watered-down swill you're serving. give me a glass of ice.
speaker4: i can't give you a glass of ice. i can't give you anything until you pay your tab.
speaker5: for the kind of money they charge here, you'd think they could hire somebody to actually wash the dishes.
speaker6: claude. here's to your new job down at the bank. i always knew you'd make something of yourself.
speaker5: know what i'm going to buy with my first pay check?
speaker5: season tickets to the yankees. right there on the first base line. what's wrong, baby?
speaker6: i was hoping you were gonna say an engagement ring, claude. french champagne shoots out of claude's nose.
speaker5: engagement ring!
speaker6: that's what respectable folks do. get a job, get married, start having babies. that's what you want, isn't it?
speaker5: sure it is. i just don't see any reason to rush into things. damn, look at this shirt. i'll be right back.

speaker1: congratulations, claude. we understand you finally got yourself a job. 
speaker2: guess that means you can pay mr. riley the fifty bucks you owe him.
speaker3: now wait a second, guys. i've got a bill to pay out there.
speaker1: twenty-two dollars. not bad for a start.
speaker3: come on, fellas, that's two weeks pay. i'm here with my girl. you gotta leave me something.
speaker2: how about your legs?
speaker3: my legs? those are good, i'll keep the legs...

speaker1: here you go. 
speaker2: keep the change.
speaker1: why, thank you, sir!
speaker2: don't i know you?
speaker3: i don't think so.
speaker2: sure i do. what's your name again?
speaker3: claude banks.
speaker2: claude banks. how could i forget that? you've got to remember me. ray gibson. we went to high school together.
speaker3: you went to monroe?
speaker3: well, i went to jefferson, so you must have a different claude banks in mind.
speaker2: sorry, man. my mistake.

speaker1: watch the threads, bullethead. if this is about my tab, i've got it covered. 
speaker2: this ain't about your tab, ray. you've got bigger problems than that.
speaker3: is that ray gibson? who the let him in here?

speaker1: come on, honey, let's get out of here. 
speaker2: but i'm having a good time...
speaker3: excuse me, sir, i believe you forgot this.
speaker1: the bill. of course, the bill. we couldn't leave without paying the bill. especially such an incredibly large bill.

speaker1: save your energy, claude. you're gonna need it. 
speaker1: here, this belongs to you. it was empty when i found it.
speaker2: good old monroe.
speaker1: what i want to know is what happened to your cush between the time that you got up from the table and when i caught up with you in the johnny?
speaker2: i don't see where that's any of your business.
speaker1: did those two muscle heads shake you down? swear i've seen them down at the track with sure-shot riley. that's it, ain't it? a gambling debt.
speaker2: where they taking us, anyway?
speaker1: probably to spanky's headquarters down at the pier.
speaker2: good, i'm looking forward to meeting this spanky. give me a chance to straighten out this whole mess.
speaker1: i can't wait to see that. you slay me, man.

speaker1: what are they gonna do to us? 
speaker2: you? dine and ditch, right? over ten bucks? you're probably looking at a thumb.
speaker1: a thumb? what do you mean, like cut it off? for ten bucks? that include the tip?
speaker3: who's he? friend of yours, ray?
speaker1: i never saw this man before tonight. he's a lowlife degenerate who lurks in bathrooms. i'm a professional man, an upstanding citizen. i go to church on sunday.
speaker3: then what are you doing here?
speaker4: failure to pay.
speaker1: look, mr. johnson, you seem like a reasonable man. i got a good job starts monday. i'll pay you back with my first pay check. with interest. i don't want to tell you how to conduct your business, but if you cut off my finger you won't get jack. working an adding machine, i gotta be whole. i need my thumbs and all my fingers for praying and doing good...
speaker3: the choirboy wants to keep his fingers. who am i to argue? drop him.
speaker1: drop him? what does drop him mean?
speaker3: you gotta lotta showing your face around my club. if a man's gonna run numbers on my side of broadway, you think he'd have the common sense to keep a low profile. but not ray gibson.
speaker1: no, not down there! that water's filthy! help me out here, man!
speaker2: you don't have to drown that fella, spanky. you already scared him half to death. he didn't know who he was with.
speaker3: but you do. what does that say about you, ray? what does that say about me? i've given you a lot of leeway over the years on account of your father. but he didn't last long enough to teach you the meaning of the word respect so i guess i'm gonna have to school you myself.
speaker2: come on, spank, i'm just trying to get by here. you remember how it was when you were starting out.
speaker1: i was supposed to wear this suit on monday!
speaker3: what's that, some of your bathtub brew?
speaker2: puerto rican rum. see for yourself.
speaker3: where'd you get this?
speaker2: comes up the mississippi. i can get more. a lot more. i was thinking about going into business for myself, but under the circumstances, i'd be willing to take on a partner.
speaker3: i'm interested. keep talking.
speaker2: all i need is the front money and a truck. i could be back in two, three days tops if i had somebody to share the driving.
speaker3: if you me on this one, i'll spare no expense.
speaker2: understood.
speaker3: alright, ray, you've got a deal. pick your man and get going.
speaker2: i'll take the little choirboy, if you don't mind.
speaker3: if i was you, i'd want somebody who can handle himself in a tight spot.
speaker2: i just want somebody who won't put a bullet in my back once the truck is full.
speaker3: for your sake, i hope you can drive. somebody give him some dry clothes.

speaker1: tell me about that hot sketch you were hypin' last night. she was a choice bit of calico. you two been seeing each other a long time? gonna slap the handcuffs on her and stroll down the aisle one of these days? 
speaker1: sometimes i wish i could find me a sheba to settle down with. suppose i'm just a tomcat by nature. this little rum run is gonna seriously improve my relationship with spanky. he's a good man to have on your side. he's got the capital and the connections. that's what you got to have in that business. spanky's place is pretty plush, but one of these days i'm gonna open up my own establishment. ray's boom-boom room. you like that? ray's boom-boom room. that's in the groove, don't you think?
speaker1: come on, daddy-o. you haven't said a word since we started. least you could do is make some friendly conversation.
speaker2: look, man, i don't want friendly conversation. i don't want to be your friend. i've seen your friends and i don't like them. i just want to do this thing and get back to new york in time to start my job.
speaker1: start your job? what kind of job?
speaker2: well, if you must know, bank teller at first federal of manhattan. i'm responsible for keeping track of hundreds, occasionally thousands of dollars.
speaker1: that's some long green.
speaker2: straight, it is. i got my own set of keys because i'm supposed to open up. so if i ain't there 8 a.m. monday morning, there's gonna be to pay.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: no, tell me what's so funny.
speaker1: i don't know. bank teller. sounds like ladies work to me.
speaker2: well, maybe i should dig around in other people's clothes for money. it's obviously been highly successful for you.
speaker1: hey, you'd be surprised what you find in other people's pockets. just gotta avoid them deadbeat bank tellers. get you every time.
speaker2: i didn't start out to be a bank teller. i was gonna be a ballplayer. even had an offer to play short for the newark eagles.
speaker1: why didn't you take it?
speaker2: the league don't pay so good. and you're always on the road. that don't wash with daisy.
speaker1: you gave up baseball to be a bank teller? i can't latch on to that.
speaker2: at some point a man's got to get serious about his future. i'm sure you have no idea what i'm talking about.
speaker1: you're talking about giving up baseball to be a bank teller.
speaker2: bank teller's just a start. i got plans. real plans. not opening some zoom-boom room. this time next year i'll be a loan officer.
speaker1: a loan officer?
speaker2: that's right, a loan officer.
speaker1: so you mean, if i needed some jack to get my nightclub up and running, i'd have to hype some square like you?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: how would i get a loan, anyway?
speaker2: you need collateral.
speaker1: like this?
speaker2: that thing? who'd you steal it from?
speaker1: my daddy gave me this watch.
speaker2: yeah? who'd he steal it from?
speaker1: my daddy is dead so watch your mouth. you can say what you want about me, but don't be dragging my daddy into it. this watch means the world to me. solid gold. keeps perfect time.
speaker2: looks like a fake to me. loan denied!
speaker1: ah, go chase yourself. i'll take my business elsewhere. and for future reference, you are no longer welcome at ray's boom-boom room.
speaker2: there is no boom-boom room.
speaker1: when there is, you can forget about it. and i swear to you ever talk about my daddy again i'm gonna kick your bank-telling, loan-denying ass, you got me?
speaker2: oooh...
speaker1: i think i liked you better when you kept your trap shut.

speaker1: man, something smells good in here. how's everybody doing? 
speaker2: maybe we oughta find another place.
speaker1: are you kidding? tell me you don't want a slice of that pie right over there.
speaker2: i must have left my appetite outside, which is where i think we ought to be right now.
speaker1: good evening, billy. we'd like some coffee and a couple of slices of that homemade pie you've got advertised.
speaker3: how you know my name's billy?
speaker1: it says so right there on your shirt.
speaker3: that what that says?
speaker4: if you boys can read so good, how come you missed that sign in the window?
speaker2: you mean this sign? the one that says "no coloreds allowed." that's a good question. ray, how come we missed the sign?
speaker1: look, ma'am, we've been driving all day. we'd just like to purchase one of those pies and we'll be on our way.
speaker4: those are whites-only pies.
speaker1: got any pies?
speaker2: any fool could see those are whites- only, not-for-blacks, come-on-let's- get-the-fuck-outta-here pies. thank you very much.
speaker1: thanks for backing me up here, uncle claude.
speaker2: don't uncle claude me. you get a load of those crackers? couldn't be a mouthful of teeth among the bunch of 'em. why you want to pick a fight with people like that for?
speaker1: you're soft.
speaker2: what'd you say?
speaker1: i said you're soft.
speaker2: hey, man, don't ever call me that.
speaker1: i call it like i see it, and what i see is definitely soft.
speaker2: alright. you want some pie?
speaker1: yeah, i want some pie.
speaker2: okay then, i'm gonna walk over to that counter and get us some pie.
speaker2: excuse me, ma'am, i bet a brick will turn that one right there into a colored pie.
speaker4: and i bet this right here will turn you into a colored pie.
speaker2: okay, ray, i think we can go now. much obliged...
speaker4: don't be concentrating so hard, baby. you're liable to seize yourself again.

speaker1: how you doing? we're looking for slim. 
speaker2: you found him.

speaker1: that's it, fellas. thirty six cases of puerto rico's finest. at five bucks a case, that's $180. 
speaker2: man, that music is hot. what goes on down there, slim?
speaker1: that's natchez-under-the-hill.
speaker2: blacks welcome there?
speaker1: green's the only color that matters under the hill. they got gambling, girls. you oughta check it out.
speaker2: maybe we will. nice meeting you.
speaker3: nice meeting you? you've been here before, haven't you?
speaker2: what gave you that idea?
speaker3: oh, i don't know, maybe because our lives depend on it, i just sort of thought you knew what you were doing!
speaker2: don't get all agitated on me. i bought a bottle of rum from a couple of dudes, i heard 'em talking...
speaker3: let me get this straight. we drove all the way down to klan country 'cause you heard a couple of guys talking?
speaker2: what are you complaining about? it worked out. everything's cool. now, come on, let's head down there and see what's shaking. we deserve a little reward.
speaker3: reward?
speaker2: there are people down there having fun. i want to be one of them. i want you to be one of them. on monday you can be a bank teller if you want, but tonight you're a bootlegger with a truck full of puerto rican rum and a fistful of cash.
speaker3: that's gas money.
speaker2: there's your gas money. you stay here and watch the truck. and don't worry, i've got the keys.

speaker1: i've never seen you in here before. 
speaker2: that's because i've never been here before.
speaker1: i'm sylvia. what's your name?
speaker1: can't you remember your own name?
speaker2: i know it begins with a "c"...
speaker1: well, mr. "c", how about buying a girl a drink? two bourbons.
speaker2: i really shouldn't. i gotta keep an eye on my friend.
speaker1: he looks like he can take care of himself.
speaker2: claude. that's my name. claude. that's never happened before.
speaker1: you're cute. you have any money, claude?
speaker2: ten dollars. but i need it to get home.
speaker1: why would you want to go home? it's so early.

speaker1: i'll take two. 
speaker2: i'll see that...
speaker2: and while we're at it, let's sweeten the pot.
speaker1: looks like my sugar bowl's empty, mr. hancock.
speaker2: that's just too bad, ain't it?
speaker1: now, hang on, slick. i ain't through with you yet.
speaker2: that'll cover it.
speaker1: full boat, ladies doing the paddling.
speaker2: four threes.
speaker2: don't take it too hard, new york. have a round on me.
speaker3: can i get you something?
speaker1: looks like he had a whole lot of nothing in his hand until you came along.
speaker3: you're hurting my arm.

speaker1: if it isn't winston hancock. 
speaker1: i thought we agreed that you were gonna leave town.
speaker2: i tried to leave, sheriff pike. but your wife begged me to stay.
speaker1: you just committed suicide, boy.

speaker1: hey, ray. i've been looking for you. 
speaker2: here i am.
speaker1: guess we better get going, huh?
speaker2: still got that ten dollars?
speaker1: well, not exactly. see, i met this girl. real nice girl. god-fearing girl. her name's sylvia.
speaker2: that jelly you were talking to right here?
speaker1: she's in a tight spot. her mama needs this operation, and they ain't got the money for it. their church took up a collection but they were still short...
speaker2: so you made a generous contribution.
speaker1: what can i say? when the spirit moves me.
speaker2: that was mighty charitable of you, claude. looks like we both got tonight.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: while you were upstairs doing work, i was getting jack-legged by a fool with four threes.
speaker1: you lost all our money in a card game?
speaker2: he even got my daddy's watch.
speaker1: that cheap-ass watch -- i mean, how the are we gonna get home without any money?
speaker2: we've still got 36 cases of rum. that's better than money.
speaker1: you sure the truck's this way? i swear it was back that way.
speaker1: ray... yo, ray...!
speaker1: i think he's hurt pretty bad.
speaker2: he's dead.
speaker1: oh, man, i've never seen a dead body before!
speaker1: what do you think you're doing?! the man's been dead for two seconds! don't you have any respect?
speaker2: it ain't here.
speaker1: what ain't there?
speaker2: my daddy's watch. this is the dude i was telling you about --
speaker3: what's going on here?
speaker3: what's wrong with that one?
speaker2: him? he's just drunk.
speaker1: yeah, nobody puts 'em away like old what's-his-name.
speaker2: winston. his name's winston.
speaker1: come on, ray, better get winston back to the truck.
speaker3: this fella looks dead.
speaker1: would you look at that, ray. winston up and died on us.
speaker2: with him then. if he can't share the driving, he can't ride in the truck.
speaker3: he can ride with us.
speaker3: so can you.

speaker1: man, this is gonna delay everything. spanky's gonna be pissed. 
speaker2: spanky's gonna be pissed? poor spanky. spanky! what the kind of a name is spanky, anyway? you're responsible for this situation. i blame you for everything. if it wasn't for you, i'd be home having a hot meal right now.
speaker1: if it wasn't for me, you'd be washing up on the beach at coney island right now. "i need all my thumbs and fingers for praying and doing good."
speaker3: what do we have here?
speaker4: billy bob and the boys found them down down under the hill with winston hancock. he was dead. looks like murder.
speaker3: you don't say.
speaker4: looks like they was running rum. got thirty six cases of evidence out back. you want i should call in the federal prosecutor?
speaker3: let's not drag the feds into this. i can think of better uses for that rum than letting it collect dust in some government warehouse up in nashville.
speaker3: besides, why bother with bootlegging when we got us a clear cut case of murder?
speaker1: excuse me, sheriff. as we explained to your associate here, there's been a mistake. we didn't kill anybody. now, as for the bootlegging, we happen to work for a very important man in new york.
speaker2: that's right. does the name spanky johnson mean anything to you?
speaker3: afraid not.
speaker1: mr. johnson is very well connected. if you were to let us go, i guarantee he would show you his appreciation, if you know what i mean.
speaker3: are you offering me a bribe?
speaker1: i'm just trying to pay the toll on the road to justice.
speaker3: you may be able to buy your way out of trouble up in new york city, but down here we take murder seriously.
speaker2: look, man, how many times we gotta tell you people, we didn't kill that guy!
speaker3: well, if that's the case, then you don't have anything to worry about, do you?
speaker3: time to get home to the missus. see y'all in the morning.
speaker2: the man's gotta point. we're innocent, after all. i just gotta get a good night's sleep on this filthy mattress. keep our heads on straight, stay cool, what's the worst thing that could happen to us?

speaker1: life! 
speaker2: life?! how long is life? we were just walking back to the truck. we didn't do nothing! life!
speaker3: life?! what's life mean? there's no way i can do life. i got a job starts monday morning!

speaker1: welcome to the farm. here you will be provided with ample opportunity to repay your debt to society through the rigors of hard labor... 
speaker1: in between harvest and planting season we got fields need clearing, roads need building and ditches need digging. you will eat only what you can grow. your crop don't come in, you'll go hungry. if you die, don't worry 'bout us none. we'll find somebody to replace you...

speaker1: this here is camp 8. camp 8 is for incorrigibles, so whatever you've done to get here, believe me, we're not impressed. you new men are probably noticing that we have no fences here at camp 8. we don't need no fences, we have the gun line. it runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. you are now inside the gun line. if you step outside the gun line without my permission, you will be shot. if you trip and fall over the gun line, you will be shot. if you spit, if you pee, if you stick your out and take a dump over the gun line, you will be shot. 
speaker1: one of my trusties puts a bullet in you when you're trying to run, i'm liable to give him a pardon for saving me the trouble of tracking you down, so you can bet their aim is true.
speaker1: my name is sgt. dillard. in the unlikely event that you need to address me, you call me boss. you already met this handsome fella right here. hoppin' bob's my ace boon coon. you run afoul of hoppin' bob, you run afoul of me.
speaker2: new men, strip down!

speaker1: okay, ladies, got some fresh meat for ya! 
speaker1: we ain't got no wallflowers at camp 8. everybody gotta dance eventually. but don't worry, they won't try nothing tonight. that would take all of the fun outta the courtship.

speaker1: i don't believe this before abe jive. i didn't go to night school to sing in no mississippi boys choir! 
speaker2: i wouldn't do that if i was you.
speaker1: shut up. it's too hot. what do you know, anyway?
speaker2: told ya.
speaker3: why ain't his pick swinging?
speaker4: why ain't that pick swinging?
speaker1: it's too hot, boss. i'm tired.
speaker4: he says it's too hot, boss.
speaker3: too hot, huh? well, you tell that lazy the state of mississippi ain't interested in his meteorological assessments.
speaker4: listen up, jiggaboo! state of mississippi ain't interested in your... in your... metropolitan assets!
speaker3: tell him the state of mississippi is only interested in getting this ditch cleared by sundown.
speaker4: state of mississippi wants this ditch cleared by sundown. you got that?!
speaker1: i got it... boss.
speaker3: he don't sound like he's from 'round here.
speaker4: he's from new york city. that one, too.
speaker3: new york. that's up north, ain't it? they'll find we do things different down here.
speaker2: we noticed.
speaker3: looks like we got a couple of live ones. how long these boys in for?
speaker4: judge gave 'em the long ride.
speaker3: life, huh? they step outta line again, we'll shorten up that sentence real fast.

speaker1: drink it up! 
speaker2: either of you new fellas know how to read? i've had this letter four months now.
speaker3: you can't read? none of these guys can read?
speaker4: last fella who could read made parole 'round christmas.
speaker2: i don't even know who this is from.
speaker5: here, gimme that.
speaker5: it's from your mama's neighbor, mrs. tidwell. she thought you oughta know that your second cousin bo died.
speaker5: and your other cousin, sally, on your daddy's side, she died.
speaker5: apparently, your sister died.
speaker2: jenny?
speaker5: no, it says marleen here.
speaker5: oh, wait, looks like jenny died, too.
speaker5: then it goes on for a while about how the crop didn't come in on accounta the frost. she finishes up with something about a tornado and how your mama and your daddy died in that. but don't worry none. she'll take care of the dog. that is, if it gets over the worms.
speaker2: appreciate it.
speaker5: anybody else need anything read?
speaker6: how you doin'?
speaker3: i'm all right.
speaker6: you ever done time before?
speaker3: you kidding? i've been in and out of prison my entire life. mostly in. i'm hard-core.
speaker6: then you won't have no problem making the adjustment. you need anything, help of any kind, gimme a holler. name's jangle leg.
speaker3: 'preciate it. claude.
speaker6: soft and supple. like a lady's.
speaker3: i try to moisturize regularly.
speaker7: hey, jangle leg, what'd i tell you about pitching woo on the job?
speaker6: sorry, cap'n.
speaker7: break's over! back to work!
speaker3: why do you think they call him jangle leg?
speaker5: somebody just told me he wins the three-legged race every year.
speaker3: so?
speaker5: he does it all by himself.

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: creamed chip beef on toast. except we're outta beef, so i had to improvise.
speaker1: can't i get one of those steaks you got grilling back there?
speaker2: those are for trusties, unless you got thirty cents or two packs of cigs.
speaker3: excuse me, i don't like it when the food touches each other, so if you could just --
speaker3: -- keep everything separate.
speaker4: eyes front, mister!
speaker2: problem with the toast?
speaker3: it's fine now.
speaker1: stop aggravating people. just eat your food.
speaker3: this fork is filthy.
speaker1: the fork is the least of your worries, claude.
speaker1: what's your name?
speaker5: me? willie long.
speaker1: what are you in for, willie?
speaker5: that's a long story...
speaker6: when he was 13 years old he killed a with a claw hammer.
speaker5: they never proved that.
speaker3: what a second, you've been in here since you were thirteen?
speaker1: what about you, radio?
speaker6: armed robbery.
speaker7: liar. killed his sister with an axe.
speaker6: she was my half-sister. i ain't the who poisoned my own parents.
speaker4: they deserved it. very strict.
speaker8: what about you, biscuit? you nearly skinned your poor old landlady alive.
speaker2: at least he didn't kill santa claus with his bare hands.
speaker1: you killed santa claus?
speaker4: on christmas eve.
speaker8: he wasn't the santa claus, he was just wearing the suit and ringing a bell.
speaker5: what did you guys do?
speaker1: i kinda lost track of how many people we killed that night. must have been 15 or twenty -- not counting women and children. it was a real bloodbath. all that screaming...
speaker3: pack of lies. don't listen to him. we didn't kill nobody. we were railroaded. and we gonna prove that.
speaker1: he just blocked it out. nigger's crazy. he's the one who did all the stabbing. he's capable of some heinous how 'bout him down there?
speaker5: goldmouth? they say he was born out back behind the shithouse. that's what they say.
speaker1: you all been here a long time. doesn't anybody ever escape from this place?
speaker5: they run but they never get too far.
speaker6: couple years back, cookie made it clear to greenville.
speaker1: greenville, that the nearest town?
speaker5: it's a two-day walk if you don't get lost. take a mighty cagey country boy to navigate the woods and bayous between here and there.
speaker4: those dogs they got can sniff a skid mark in your underpants from a half- mile off.
speaker1: alright, well, let's say you make it to greenville. what's there, anyway?
speaker2: grandma dodi's pork rib joint.
speaker8: that's where they nabbed him.
speaker2: didn't even get to have my peach cobbler.
speaker5: the most important thing they got in greenville is a train that heads up north.
speaker9: hey, girl, you gonna eat your corn bread?
speaker3: no, man. i want you to have it.
speaker1: wait up there, claude. you give that guy your corn bread and the next thing you know you'll be ironing his shirts and clipping his toenails.
speaker9: maybe i oughta eat your corn bread.
speaker1: my corn bread? oh no, my friend. i love corn bread.
speaker1: i thought my mama made good corn bread but this is really something special.
speaker1: who knew i'd have to come all the way down to this here prison, deep in the of the great state of mississippi, to find such a tasty piece of corn bread?
speaker1: and who knew that in this great corn bread-making institution i'd come face to face with the biggest, ugliest, stinkiest, ugliest gold- mouthed in the entire world. now get out of my face before i lose my appetite!

speaker1: how you like your corn bread now, new york? 
speaker2: come on, new york, you can do better than that! get up and show him how they do it in harlem!
speaker3: i appreciate you going to all this trouble over my corn bread. i don't get a lot of compliments in my line of work.
speaker4: your pal's getting the tar whipped out of him on your account.
speaker5: how many times i got to tell you? he ain't my pal. besides, he looks like he knows what he's doing.
speaker5: alright, alright...
speaker5: hey, ray, i think you made your point, whatever that is. maybe now's a good time to throw in the towel. you know what i'm saying? ray manages a smile and staggers to his feet.
speaker4: the man's taken enough of a beating. let's get him inside.
speaker6: got him good, huh, claude? he won't be bothering us anytime soon.
speaker7: shame, shame, that's your name.

speaker1: request permission to go to the tonk, boss. 
speaker2: i don't see no wedding ring, banks. conjugal visits are for married prisoners only.
speaker1: you think you could make an exception just this once, boss? she came all the way down from new york.
speaker2: i don't need the baptists on my back, but i suppose i could issue a temporary marriage license for a nominal fee.
speaker2: i now pronounce you man and wife. claude banks going to the tonk!

speaker1: biscuit, when you're done with jangle leg, you think you could squeeze me in? 
speaker2: thought you'd never ask. biscuit needs some gravy.
speaker1: i'm talking about a haircut.
speaker2: cost you a pair of nylons.
speaker3: hey, ray, goldmouth don't believe me. ain't it so they got trains up in new york city that run under the streets?
speaker1: they're called subways. a nickel will take you from one end of manhattan to the other. helluva ride, too.
speaker4: hey, ray, you ever been to the cotton club?
speaker1: sure i've been to the cotton club. it's pretty sweet. but it don't hold a candle to the boom boom room. that's where the real action is.
speaker5: what's the boom boom room?
speaker1: that's my joint. the swinginest nightclub in town.
speaker6: you got your own nightclub?
speaker1: well, not yet. it's still in the planning stages.
speaker7: so it don't exist.
speaker1: just because it's in my mind, goldmouth, don't mean it ain't real. everything worth anything starts with a dream.
speaker8: gibson! got yourself a visitor!
speaker1: mama?
speaker9: rayford!
speaker1: what are you doing here, mama?
speaker9: i heard some things so i went to see spanky johnson. he told me what happened and gave me some money to get down here. what happened to your face?
speaker1: don't worry about that. hey, fellas, this here is my mama. these are some of my friends. that's willie, there's poker face, radio, cookie, goldmouth, biscuit, jangle leg.
speaker5: mrs. gibson. shame on rayford here for failing to mention that he had such a beautiful mama.
speaker9: nice to meet you all.
speaker7: how was your train ride?
speaker9: quite comfortable, thank you.
speaker6: them cookies in there?
speaker9: yes, oatmeal.
speaker4: 'scuse me, you got any batteries on you?
speaker9: no. no i don't.
speaker2: that's a lovely dress. make it yourself?
speaker9: yeah...
speaker1: this is a big surprise, mama. i sure didn't expect to see you down here.
speaker9: rayford, i wanted so much more for you than this.
speaker1: don't cry, mama. this place ain't so bad as it looks. sure, we work hard, but there's plenty fresh air and sunshine... and you know something else, i've taken to going to church regular. they got services every sunday right there in the mess hall.
speaker9: don't you lie to me, rayford. you still have your daddy's watch? well, this is all i can give you. i wish it was more.
speaker1: i can't take that, mama.
speaker9: don't argue with me. you need it more than i do. i know how a little money can help in a place like this.
speaker1: i can't believe this. i always said i'd never end up like this. i thought i'd make something of myself, do something with my life. you know, be successful. have a big house, a family. now i'm gonna end up just like daddy.
speaker9: don't say that, rayford. don't ever say that. he gave up hope. that's where you gotta be different.
speaker1: they gave me life, mama.
speaker9: i gave you life. and they can't take it away from you. remember that. you'll get outta here someday. i believe that. you gotta believe it, too.

speaker1: woman came all the way from new york, goddamnit! we'll come out when we're good and ready! 
speaker1: did you go see my cousin maynard like i asked you in my letter?
speaker2: of course i did. he said he'd file an appeal right away. you didn't tell me he was so good looking.
speaker1: yeah, that side of the family has all the looks and none of the brains. i hope he don't mess things up.
speaker2: he seemed like a pretty good lawyer to me. his offices take up an entire floor of that big, new building on 125th street, and he was using all these words i never heard before. he even offered me a job.
speaker1: a job, huh? well, that's nice, real nice. you won't have to work long. i'll be back soon enough. after i start work at first federal bank of manhattan, i'll be keeping you in style. everything will get back to normal again. that's a promise.
speaker2: listen, claude, maynard wanted to know if he should file the appeal on behalf of your friend, too.
speaker1: ray gibson? no, no. he's the reason i'm in here, daisy. for all i know, he's got a record a mile long. i got a better shot of getting out of here on my own. you tell maynard to think about me, concentrate on me. understand?
speaker2: sure, claude, whatever you say.

speaker1: we lost yesterday on accounta the rain. that means we gotta make up for it today, so put your backs to it. 
speaker2: you heard the boss! let's move!
speaker3: looks like a scorcher.
speaker4: i bet the son of a goes over a hundred and ten.
speaker5: i'll take that action.

speaker1: man down, boss! 
speaker2: you two, put him on the truck!
speaker3: cookie drew me a map to greenville.
speaker4: so?
speaker3: you know what i'm saying.
speaker4: yeah, i know what your saying. and i'm saying if you made it that far, they'd be watching every train that pulls out of that station.
speaker3: that's why we won't take the train. cookie showed me where there's a farm house. they got a boat there.
speaker4: what do you know about boats? i bet you can't even swim.
speaker3: what i know about boats is they take you to freedom. come on, man. i think we can do this.
speaker4: why are you always talking about we? there is no we. there is a me, there is a you. but there is no we between us.

speaker1: you want out of this place, don't you? don't tell me you're starting to like it here. 
speaker2: no, i don't like it here. look around. there's nothing but ass. male ass! and ass! believe you me, i'm getting out of here.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: i'm not gonna forget it. what does that mean? if you've got a plan, i think i have a right to know about it. i told you my plan.
speaker2: getting a map from a chubby chef named cookie? dragging our through the swamps in search of some worm-eaten boat? that ain't a plan, that's a vacation for two in the hole. when you've got a map to new york city, you get back to me.

speaker1: sure was hot out there today. 
speaker2: still too hot to sleep.
speaker3: every bone in my body feel like a big dog got hold of it.
speaker4: i can't wait 'til sunday.
speaker5: what's so great about sunday? monday's right after it.
speaker3: hey, ray, what's the name of that nightclub of yours?
speaker6: you mean the boom-boom room?
speaker3: that's it. the boom-boom room. sure would like to see that place when you get it up and running.
speaker6: you should have come by last night, radio. you woulda had yourself some fun.
speaker7: last night? what are you talking about, ray?
speaker6: i'm talking about old satchmo nearly blew the roof off the joint.
speaker8: who?
speaker6: satchmo.
speaker4: you mean louis armstrong?
speaker6: he's a good friend of mine. drops by the club whenever he's in town.
speaker5: hey, do we have to listen to this i'm trying to get some sleep around here.
speaker6: yeah, things were hot last night, but you'll never guess who's playing tonight.

speaker1: a tisket a tasket... 
speaker2: that's right, fellas. catch any cab heading uptown. all the drivers know ray's boom-boom room.
speaker3: hey, ray...
speaker3: where am i at, man?

speaker1: hey, ray, i could get used to this! 
speaker2: ray, my man, this steak is like butter!
speaker3: made just for you, cookie.
speaker2: how about some steak sauce?
speaker3: no problem. oh, boy!
speaker3: how about some worchestershire sauce! and clean that table.

speaker1: c'mon, poker face, what's a club without some dice? 
speaker2: lucky seven! my nigger! let it ride!
speaker3: sing, girlfriend!
speaker4: hey, ray, looks like trouble!
speaker5: you don't shut up, you're gonna spend the rest of the night in the hole, gibson! that goes for the rest of you girls, too. i don't want to hear another peep about no boom-boom room!
speaker6: sorry, cap'n.
speaker4: pretty good story, ray. didn't much care for the ending though.

speaker1: mail call! 
speaker1: craddock!... williams... henshaw!... banks!
speaker2: here!
speaker3: maynard banks, esquire. attorney at law.
speaker2: gimme that. that doesn't concern you.
speaker3: i'm sure it don't.

speaker1: what's up, ray? 
speaker2: claude.
speaker1: sure is hot today. think it'll rain later?
speaker2: what do you want, claude?
speaker1: what do i want? what makes you think i want something?
speaker2: my daddy always said when a man starts talking about the weather keep you hand on your wallet.
speaker1: your daddy must have been a helluva guy, a deep man, a wise man. sure wish i could have met him --
speaker2: cut the what do you want, claude?
speaker1: you still got that map?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: well, if you're still thinking about booking it, i want in. i think we can make it.
speaker2: we? did i hear you say we? as i recall, you're the one who said there is no we. guess we got some bad news in that letter, huh?
speaker1: look, my cousin maynard is a lawyer. he filed an appeal on my behalf --
speaker2: on your behalf. what happened to we?
speaker1: the appeal was denied. then daisy went and fell for maynard. they're engaged to be married, can you believe that?
speaker2: well, let's just think about that for a moment. he's a successful lawyer up in new york city and you're down here with a bright future in the cotton picking business. eeny, meeny, miney, maynard.
speaker1: come on, man. don't shut me out. i'm telling you, you and me, that map, we can go places.
speaker2: you know what, claude? this whole time we've been down here, you've done nothing but think about yourself, acting like this whole thing is my fault. that plan with your cousin, did that include me?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: at least you're honest for once. so now you want to be my friend? well, let me tell you something, claude-my- shit-don't-stink-banks. you got a lot to learn about friendship.
speaker1: does that mean i'm in?
speaker2: i don't think so, claude. you'd just slow me down. we'd have to stop every five minutes so you could polish your silverware. there's no way around it, you're soft.
speaker1: what'd you say?
speaker2: i said you're soft.
speaker1: don't call me that. you know i hate it when you call me that.
speaker1: damn, that felt good. i should have done that the first time i met you.
speaker3: now you girls set aside your differences and get back to work or i'll see to it --
speaker2: -- we'll spend a night in the hole. we heard this before.
speaker1: what the are you laughing about?

speaker1: all in, boss! 
speaker2: move it out.
speaker1: movin' it out, boss.

speaker1: you did it, man! you got us out! next stop, new york city! 
speaker2: new york's a long way's off. let's just keep moving, okay? as ray and claude disappear into the woods...

speaker1: i know these trees all look the same, but i'm getting an awful familiar vibration from this one right here. you sure you know where we're going? 
speaker2: absolutely. the map is very clear.
speaker1: let me take a look at that map.
speaker1: you call this a map? what was cookie smoking when he drew this?
speaker2: cookie didn't draw it. i did.
speaker1: you drew this?!
speaker2: i knew you wouldn't come if i didn't have a map.
speaker1: that gripes my soul, man. we're out here in the middle of nowhere. there is nibbling at my balls! don't tell me you don't know where we're going!
speaker1: hey, wait up!

speaker1: come on, ray, time to go! 
speaker2: i'm stuck!

speaker1: look, daddy. they caught those two men who escaped last night. 
speaker2: they ain't men, mae rose. they're convicts. and convicts to boot. can you say nigger?
speaker1: nagger?
speaker2: no, nigger.
speaker1: nigger.
speaker2: that's my girl.
speaker3: here they are, superintendent. we tracked 'em all the way to the tallahachie.
speaker2: that's quite a ways. i'm glad you new york boys could see some of our lovely countryside while you're down here. what do you say, mae rose? how should we teach these two a lesson?
speaker1: a night in the hole?
speaker2: better make it a week.

speaker1: see you in a week, boys. 
speaker2: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: don't mention it. 
speaker2: hell, you'd probably be half way to new york by now...
speaker1: i'm serious, man. don't mention it. ever.

speaker1: i'll take claude to die on wednesday for fifty cents. 
speaker2: wednesday for two bits. and don't forget you already owe me a steak.
speaker3: i'll take claude for friday. that's my birthday.
speaker4: weatherman says a heat wave's coming. i say neither one of 'em son of gonna last past thursday.
speaker2: i told you before, i don't take pennies. two cigarettes or one nickel minimum. what about you, willie? gonna get in on this action?
speaker5: i got a crispy new dollar bill says both of them gonna make it.
speaker2: now that's what i call a bet.
speaker6: it's a mighty long shot, willie. nobody ever made it a week in the hole.
speaker7: not in august, anyway.
speaker2: who else has some guts around here?

speaker1: i don't think these boys have learned their lesson. let's give 'em another week for good measure. 
speaker2: sure you want to do that, sir?
speaker1: don't you ever question me, sgt. dillard. when i give an order, you jump to it, or i'll kick you and that first-cousin you call a wife outta that pretty little house so fast it'll make your pin-head spin. you got that?
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: well, they made it a week. looks like you win, willie. 
speaker2: let it ride.

speaker1: claude? you alright?! 
speaker2: can't take it no more, ray! die, gotta get the outta here!
speaker1: keep it together, claude. you wake up the man, he'll shoot you for sure.
speaker2: he'd be doing me a favor. i'm getting outta here one way or the other! rats and
speaker1: all right, man, just settle down. we'll get outta here, claude. we'll get outta here real soon.
speaker2: how the are we gonna do that, ray?!
speaker1: we'll just get off at the next stop.
speaker2: say what?
speaker1: that's right, we'll get off at the next stop. the train's pulling into the station right now.
speaker2: the you talking about? what train?
speaker1: we're in the bronx, my man. hundred and sixty first street.
speaker2: hundred and sixty first street? that's yankee stadium.
speaker1: hell, yes, yankee stadium. bombers are playing a double-header against the red sox.
speaker2: red sox... who's on the mound?
speaker1: i don't know. who do you want?
speaker2: allie reynolds. he's my boy.
speaker1: sure, it says allie reynolds right here in the program. he's warming up right now. man, we're so close to the field i need cleats. how'd you get such good seats?
speaker2: i know people.
speaker1: they must be the right people. whoa, there goes the hot dog man. let's get a couple. damn, that smells good. nothing like a ballpark hot dog, huh?
speaker2: you get ketchup?
speaker1: ketchup? who eats ketchup on a hot dog? mustard's what you want.
speaker2: i can't eat it with mustard.

speaker1: give me back that hot dog. i'll eat it myself. 
speaker2: what am i gonna eat?
speaker1: you can starve to death for all i care. now shut up, the game's about to start.
speaker2: hey, man, is babe ruth in the lineup today?

speaker1: what's going on? are they alive or dead? 
speaker2: don't look too good.
speaker3: they're not moving.

speaker1: hey, ray... 
speaker2: go on, get inside.

speaker1: ...camp 8 is for incorrigibles, so whatever you've done to get here, believe me, we are not impressed. you new men are probably noticing that we have no fences here at camp 8. we don't need no fences, we have the gun line. it runs from shack to shack clear around the yard -- 
speaker1: what the you think you're doing?
speaker2: excuse me, boss. that kid don't talk. something wrong with his head, just can't get right, boss.
speaker1: can't get right, huh? we'll see how long he last. now, where was i?
speaker3: we don't need no fences at camp 8, boss.
speaker1: that's right. we don't need no fences, we have the gun line. it runs from shack to shack clear around the yard. you are now inside the gun line...

speaker1: i try to teach 'em the finer points of the game, share my wisdom, but i don't know why i bother. they don't listen, they sure don't learn... 
speaker2: what you're dealing with here is a complete lack of talent.
speaker1: i'm sick of watching camp 12 win the championship. every year they get to roast the victory pig and we get this year i want that pig.
speaker1: alright, radio, there you go. who wants to hit next?
speaker2: you want to hit? yo, claude. give can't get right a shot.
speaker1: him?
speaker2: can't be worse than any of these other fools.
speaker1: all right, grab the bat. let's see what you can do.
speaker1: jangle leg's gonna throw the ball nice and easy. you just go ahead and take a swing.
speaker1: okay. let's try that again. this time give it a little juice.
speaker2: told ya.

speaker1: i heard camp 12 got themselves a son- of-a-bitch used to pitch for the mud hens. 
speaker2: that boy got a year for jay-walking.
speaker3: judge must have money riding on the championship.
speaker4: don't matter who camp 12 puts on the mound. all i know is when this season's over camp 8's gonna have pork chops.
speaker5: looks like little mae rose has grown up.
speaker6: and out.
speaker7: mmm-mm, that girl's got gams.
speaker4: she's got it all. and it's firm and round and fully packed.
speaker3: you shred it, wheat. that there is fresh water.
speaker3: be cool, man. you can look, just don't drool.
speaker8: how was the honeymoon? am i gonna be a grandaddy soon?
speaker9: don't pay attention to the superintendent, tom. you're going to stay for supper, aren't you?
speaker10: afraid not. i'm shipping out this afternoon.

speaker1: think you can handle something that big, cookie? 
speaker2: i handled your mama, didn't i? don't y'all worry. i got plans for that bad boy. ain't none of him going to waste.
speaker3: banks! get over here!
speaker3: this is stan blocker. scout for the leagues.
speaker4: leagues, actually. pittsburgh crawfords. ever hear of us?
speaker5: we get the games on the radio sometimes.
speaker4: we played down in jackson yesterday. heard a rumor you've got a boy up here who can hit the ball a ton.
speaker5: you probably mean can't get right. that's him over there.
speaker4: can't get right? that's the kid's name? can i talk to him?
speaker5: you can try, but you won't get too far. why you interested?
speaker4: crawford's are always looking for new talent.
speaker5: maybe you didn't notice, but this is a prison.
speaker4: there are ways around that. right sergeant?
speaker4: nice looking squad. see you after the game.

speaker1: of course, the superintendent's hoping for a boy, but personally, i'd prefer a girl. 
speaker2: whatever it is will be a little gift from heaven. look at the way she glows.

speaker1: mark my words, within five years there's gonna be a colored man playing in the majors. 
speaker2: come on, the world hasn't changed that much.
speaker1: maybe not yet. but it will. and i'll be out of a job. damn, that's some tasty hooch.
speaker3: it's amazing what ray here can do with a couple of pounds of potato skins and some molasses.
speaker2: so, blocker, what do you think of our boy?
speaker1: i think that boy could be the next josh gibson. i'm gonna talk to the front office about him, you can bet on that. damn, it's getting late. we got a game in memphis tomorrow.
speaker3: what about us? don't forget to mention us.
speaker2: we're like his handlers. he can't function without us.
speaker1: i'll put in a good word for you. you've done a good job with that boy. thanks for your hospitality.

speaker1: uh, doctor... 
speaker2: she'll be fine. she just had a bit of a shock.
speaker1: is mae rose okay?
speaker2: she's doing just fine.
speaker1: and the baby?
speaker2: he's a big one.
speaker1: it's a boy! well, let's get a look at him.
speaker1: well, where is he? where's my new grandson?

speaker1: you really think they'll let him out of here just to play baseball? 
speaker2: why not? boy's got god-given talent.
speaker3: may have given it, but claude banks spotted it and nurtured it.
speaker4: straight. i expect those pittsburgh crawdads to remember that.
speaker3: crawfords.
speaker4: whatever.
speaker5: heads up, here comes trouble.

speaker1: alright, listen up! i want every man lined up out here in the yard on the double! let's move it! 
speaker2: you heard what the man said! move it!

speaker1: i know it was somebody from this camp. i can feel it in my bones. 
speaker1: do you know who the father of that little chocolated baby is?
speaker1: well, then, who is it?
speaker2: the baby's mine, boss.
speaker3: he's lying, boss. i'm the father of that baby.
speaker4: actually, it was me, boss. i know i may look old...
speaker5: any fool could see that baby's mine, boss.
speaker6: i beg to differ. that cute little rascal belongs to me...
speaker7: i'm the father...
speaker8: i'm the father, boss...
speaker9: i'm the father...
speaker10: i'm the father...

speaker1: to superintendent abernathy. may he have many more grandchildren! 
speaker2: what i want to know is where? when? how?
speaker1: wasting your breath, claude. he ain't the type to kiss and tell.
speaker3: there's a sweet fragrance in the air today.
speaker4: the magnolias are blooming early this year, daddy.
speaker5: don't take it so hard, biscuit. she don't mean nothin' to him.
speaker6: with him. it ain't that.
speaker5: these are free papers.
speaker6: what am i gonna do out there, ray? i can't go home to my mama like this. i'll get the strap for sure.
speaker5: come on, biscuit, this is good news. your mama's gonna break down in tears when you show up on her doorstep.
speaker7: i'll give you three to one she gives him the strap.
speaker5: it's 1945. it's a different world now.
speaker6: not for me, it ain't.
speaker5: well you can't stay here, biscuit. this ain't no life for a man. any one of these fellas would give their right arm to be in your shoes. i sure know i would.
speaker6: no life on the inside, no life on the outside...
speaker5: hey, biscuit...!
speaker8: man over the line!
speaker9: goddamnit, biscuit, get back here!

speaker1: hey, fellas, i got chicago. 
speaker2: hey, can't get right, where you going? why you dressed like that?
speaker3: it's a pardon from the governor.
speaker2: let me see that.
speaker2: where'd you get this?

speaker1: yo, blocker, what's going on here? 
speaker2: kid's getting out. i got him a pardon.
speaker1: yeah, but what about me and ray? i didn't see our names on that pardon. you said you were gonna put in a good word for us.
speaker2: i did, claude. i mentioned you. i mentioned you both. but the fact is, pardons don't come cheap. the kid can hit. what can you do?
speaker3: let it go, claude.
speaker1: i'm not gonna let it go. the man needs to explain himself. makin' promises.
speaker2: look, i am truly sorry about this. i'd like to help you...
speaker1: but you can't.
speaker2: at least the kid's getting out. isn't this what you wanted?
speaker1: yeah. of course it is.
speaker1: you show them crawfords how to play ball.
speaker3: make 'em throw strikes.
speaker4: it's alright. you're a free man now.
speaker2: don't worry, we'll take good care of him.
speaker3: one of the new kids said they're farming those acres just north of the swamp. he said he saw a crop duster flying around the place.
speaker1: i'm not in the mood right now, ray.
speaker3: he said they keep it parked out behind the barn. can't be that hard to fly a plane. lots of people do it.
speaker1: they're called pilots! i'm serious, ray. i'm not in the mood for one of your stupid, fucked-up plans right now.
speaker3: i don't see you coming up with any plans.
speaker1: my plan is on his way to pittsburgh right now. that congenital just got himself a pardon signed by the governor thanks to us, but we can't seem to do nothing for ourselves. don't you feel a little disgusted right now?
speaker3: crop duster.
speaker1: i ain't getting in no airplane with you. i'm finally wrapping my mind around the concept. they threw us in this shithole for life. don't you get it, ray? we're gonna die here! might as well head up to the cemetery, pick a plot and start digging.
speaker3: my daddy died in prison. he gave up hope and hung himself. what you're talking about is the same thing. that ain't how i'm going.
speaker1: maybe you're fooling yourself, ray. maybe you're just a chip off the old block.
speaker3: take that back or we ain't friends no more, claude banks.
speaker1: here's a news flash, ray. we never were friends. we've just been stuck together for 12 years. it's been nothing but bad luck since the moment i ran into you. every time i look at you i get sick to my stomach thinking about what my life could have been if i'd never bumped into ray gibson.
speaker3: better watch yourself claude, before you say something you regret.
speaker1: the only thing i regret is the day i met you.
speaker3: well, if that's the way it is...
speaker1: that's the way it is.
speaker3: then i have nothing left to say to you.
speaker1: you never said nothing of value anyway.

speaker1: alright willie, i think i got everything. i'll talk to dillard, see if i can get up to the infirmary and check up on you. make sure they're changing your diapers regular. 
speaker2: they'll be sending you up there soon enough. and not just for a visit, neither.

speaker1: are you claude banks? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: my name's yvette. sylvia sent me. you look just like she said.
speaker2: she's alright, isn't she?
speaker1: oh, she's fine. she's just not coming today.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: she got married last month.
speaker2: married?
speaker1: real nice guy, too. trumpet player. they moved down to new orleans. claude takes this in, staring off into space.
speaker1: she always said that if you were on the outside...
speaker2: but i'm not on the outside. i'm in here.
speaker1: i know she's sorry she won't be seeing you anymore. anyway, she wanted me to take care of you.
speaker2: take care of me?
speaker1: you know, go to the tonk or whatever.
speaker2: i'm too old for you. besides, i'm not much in the mood.
speaker1: want me to come back some other time?
speaker2: nice girl like you don't belong in a place like this. but if you talk to sylvia, tell her old claude said congratulations.

speaker1: whites-only pies... 
speaker2: man over the line!

speaker1: comfortable? 
speaker2: as a pair of fur-lined bedroom slippers, boss.
speaker1: we'll see what those slippers feel like after, say, 24 hours. and if you step down off them bottles -- if one toe so much as touches the dirt -- one of these boys is gonna shoot you dead. let's see. we need a special man for this job.
speaker1: how about it, ray?
speaker1: i'll make you trusty right now. if that pie-eatin' son of a falls off those bottles and you have to shoot him, i'll see to it you get a pardon. hell, i'll personally you out the gate.
speaker3: you don't want to give me a gun, boss. i'm liable to use it on you.

speaker1: you're a i'd have taken that deal. 
speaker2: excuse me? are you talking to me?
speaker1: i'd have knocked you off those bottles, put a bullet in your and be half way to new york right now.
speaker2: after all these years of blissful silence, i almost forgot how annoying the sound of your voice can be.
speaker1: i hope you don't think i owe you anything. because i don't owe you a thing.
speaker2: i didn't do if for you, anyway. i just ain't no boot-licking trusty, that's all.
speaker1: i was sorry to hear about your mama passing.
speaker2: that was five years ago.
speaker1: i know, but since we're talking, i thought i'd mention it.
speaker2: we're not talking, you're talking, and doing too much of it, if you ask me.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: you sure looked funny running for those pies, bullets flying all around you.
speaker1: bullets weren't the problem. that pie was too hot. burned my tongue.

speaker1: fourteen acres today and only 12 hours of daylight! eat up and move it out! gibson! banks! get your sorry over here! 
speaker1: every morning i wake up praying that ray gibson and claude banks have died in their sleep and every morning you disappoint me.
speaker2: sorry, boss.
speaker1: i stand before you a defeated man. try as i might, i can't seem to break you. i swear, if they dropped a nuclear bomb on this camp, you and the cockroaches would be the only things left. but starting today at least i won't have to endure your presence any longer. you've got fifteen minutes to clear out your footlockers. you're both being reassigned to the superintendent's mansion. and i, for one, will not miss you.
speaker3: i always wanted to do that. there is so much love inside of this man.

speaker1: sequence omitted from original script. 
speaker1: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: dentures slipping again. everything falls apart when you grow old, eh, claude? time sure marches on. 
speaker2: yes, boss.
speaker1: you know, i'm fixing on retiring at the end of the summer, gonna try to enjoy what few years i have left. what do you think of this place? it's one of those new retirement communities down on the gulf.
speaker2: ocean views, palm trees, two heated swimming pools and a golf course -- sounds a sight better than that infirmary across the way where i'm gonna end up.
speaker1: i apologize, claude. that was rude of me.
speaker2: that's alright, boss. takes a lot more than a colorful brochure to hurt my feelings.
speaker1: you been on the farm for quite a spell, haven't you?
speaker2: over forty years now. me and ray gibson out there.
speaker1: forty years. that's a long time for any crime, even murder.
speaker2: it's a of a lot longer when you're innocent.
speaker1: half the men in this prison swear they're innocent. don't you think that's kinda funny?
speaker2: you have to forgive me if i don't laugh.
speaker3: you and wilkins sure are getting chummy. you two planning on going steady, or something?
speaker2: he's just a lonely old man. he likes to talk.
speaker3: hey, i'm a lonely old man. i like to talk, too. so why don't we start by talking about what kind of a plan you're working on?
speaker2: i'm not working on a plan.
speaker3: you can't fool me, claude. i know you got something brewing.
speaker2: goodnight, ray.

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: don't touch that car.
speaker2: wilkins' driver's got the flu, so he asked me to fill in for him.
speaker1: you haven't driven in 40 years, you ain't even got a license. man's taking his life in his hands, putting you behind the wheel! where you taking him?
speaker2: greenville. we're picking up the new superintendent at the bus station.

speaker1: you know i trust you, claude. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: i'll be right back.
speaker3: damn, it was getting hot in there.
speaker2: what the are you doing in that trunk?!
speaker3: you didn't think i was gonna let you escape alone, did you?
speaker2: i ain't escaping! we're picking up the new super just like i told you.
speaker3: then you're lucky i came along. doesn't take a visionary to spot a golden opportunity like this. now help me out of this trunk.
speaker2: you ain't getting out of that trunk.
speaker3: come on, man, i'm starting to cramp up here. we have the chance right here, right now, i say we go!
speaker2: go where, ray?
speaker3: back to new york for starters.
speaker2: and what will we do when we get there? i'm sixty-five years old, ray. so are you. what are we gonna do out here? get married, have kids, settle down? that boat sailed without us, man.
speaker3: this boat's gonna sail without you, too. i don't care if i last one day out here. at least it's one day of freedom. now gimme those keys.
speaker2: forget about that. you run if you want to, but you're not taking this car.
speaker3: claude, man, i'm serious. give me those keys.
speaker2: i ain't spending a month in the hole so you can take a joy ride.
speaker3: don't make me take them away from you.
speaker2: hey, there's wilkins!
speaker2: who's driving now,
speaker4: there you go, boy.
speaker1: come on, claude, time to go.

speaker1: you sure it was him? 
speaker2: some faces you just don't forget. warren pike's is one of 'em.
speaker1: i don't like it, i don't like it one bit. we shoulda taken that car when we had the opportunity. we'd be half way to new york by now.
speaker2: we'd be in the hole by now. hey, man, you're peeing on my shoe.
speaker1: i know. simultaneously, they shake and zip. claude bends down and picks up a bowl of gumbo, placing it on a tray next to an identical one.

speaker1: lemonade? 
speaker2: i prefer bourbon.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i don't keep any liquor in the house.
speaker2: well, fortunately, i carry my own.
speaker1: hunting's been pretty good on the farm the last few years. it's one of the perks of the job. if you're interested, tomorrow i could show you some of my favorite spots.
speaker2: you don't have to twist my arm. say now, that gumbo has quite a kick.
speaker1: thank you, claude. that'll be all for tonight.
speaker3: goodnight, mr. wilkins. mr. pike.
speaker1: goodnight, claude.
speaker2: if you don't mind my saying, you seem mighty familiar with your house boy.
speaker1: i believe in treating the convicts with respect, if that's what you mean.
speaker2: respect? well, isn't that progressive.
speaker1: if somebody deserves respect, mr. pike, they receive it from me, convict or no convict.

speaker1: well, that's a pretty good haul. what do you say, mr. pike? ready to call it a day? 
speaker2: yeah, it's getting late. i could sure use a bath.
speaker3: that's a real nice watch you got there, sir. fancy old thing even plays a little tune.
speaker2: yeah, it's special. they don't make 'em like this anymore.
speaker3: sure don't. mind if i ask where you got it?
speaker2: why, my wife gave it to me on our anniversary some years back.
speaker3: must have been some time ago. maybe forty years?
speaker2: something like that, yes.
speaker3: she give you that scar, too?
speaker2: i oughta shoot you for that comment, boy.
speaker3: like you shot winston hancock?
speaker1: what's going on here?
speaker2: i'm afraid i'm gonna have to teach this uppity a lesson in manners.
speaker3: that's mr. uppity to you.
speaker4: cool it, ray. you're gonna get us in a lot of trouble.
speaker1: he's right, gibson. put down the gun and we'll work this out.
speaker3: i'm gonna work this man's brains out the back of his head.
speaker2: shoot him, wilkins!
speaker4: don't shoot, sir. i can deal with this. ray, buddy, you don't want to shoot this white man. see, you do that, they'll kill you for sure. and it's not that i like you or anything, but i've kinda gotten used to having you around.
speaker3: he's got my daddy's watch, claude. i always knew whoever took that watch killed winston hancock. and that was you, mr. pike.
speaker2: he's crazy. don't listen to him, wilkins.
speaker1: do you realize what your saying, gibson?
speaker3: that watch was the only thing my daddy ever gave me. it meant the world to me.
speaker2: it, wilkins, would you please just shoot the nigger!
speaker3: he shoots me, i swear i'll take you with me! i just want to hear you say it.
speaker1: is there any truth to what he's saying, pike?
speaker2: what difference does it make? natchez was better off without winston hancock! who cares if a couple of no- account bootleggers went to jail for his killing? at least the state of mississippi got 40 years of cheap labor out of the deal!
speaker4: forty years of cheap labor! gimme that gun.
speaker3: no, i'm gonna kill him --
speaker4: no, believe me, i'm gonna kill him!
speaker4: i can't do it.
speaker3: that's because you're soft. gimme the gun.
speaker4: what'd you say?
speaker3: i said you're soft.
speaker4: don't call me soft, i hate it when you call me that.
speaker3: i believe this is mine.

speaker1: ...i was drawing a bead on a bird when mr. pike just stepped into my line of fire. 
speaker2: where were the two convicts when the shot was fired?
speaker1: they were busy loading up the truck. we got him back here as quick as possible, but... i just feel terrible about this...

speaker1: why don't he just tell 'em the truth? 
speaker2: he knows nobody wants to hear the truth.
speaker3: well, i think they bought it. one of the deputies belongs to my church.
speaker3: i realize there's no way... there's nothing i can say to make up for forty years... i'll have charlotte prepare those pardon papers right away.
speaker3: claude, mind helping me to the bathroom?
speaker1: sure, boss.
speaker3: i'm not your boss. not anymore.
speaker4: so ray and claude got their pardons, right?
speaker5: no, they didn't get their pardons, you if they'd got their pardons way back then, we wouldn't be burying them today, would we?
speaker4: oh, right. well, why didn't they get those pardons?
speaker6: old man wilkins' never came out of that bathroom. died right there on the crapper.
speaker5: just like elvis.
speaker6: of course nobody believed ray and claude.
speaker4: that musta messed 'em up pretty bad.
speaker5: what happened to 'em after that, willie?
speaker6: after that? well, let's see. after that they got old. we all got old.

speaker1: nurse humphries was checking my prostate this morning. i got an erection. 
speaker2: an erection, huh? haven't had one of those in a while.
speaker1: tell me about it. scared me at first. then, before i could figure out what to do with it, it was gone. imagine my disappointment.
speaker2: sure would like to see the house that ruth built one more time.
speaker1: well, ruth shoulda built it a little better. thing's falling to pieces. gonna hurt somebody.
speaker2: what do you expect? it's almost as old as we are.
speaker1: they oughta tear that down and ship them yankees cross the river to jersey.
speaker2: remember what that place looked like on a sunny spring day? more beautiful than any church i was ever in.
speaker2: looks like old jonesy finally got his walking papers.
speaker1: over to the morgue and up the hill to the cemetery. never thought i'd admit it, claude, but you were right.
speaker2: 'course i was right. about what?
speaker1: you're the one who said that boneyard's the only way we're getting out of here. we're gonna join all the rest of 'em soon enough. jangle leg, biscuit, goldmouth, poker face, cookie, radio -- yes sir, pick a plot and start digging...

speaker1: two percodan. 
speaker2: i'll raise you.
speaker1: what the are those?
speaker2: keeps your cholesterol down.
speaker1: i look like i give a about my cholesterol?
speaker3: you want a bump, g?
speaker4: i wouldn't be putting that up my nose. that came in in somebody's ass. it's like you're sniffin' ass. maybe that's your thing, but it ain't mine.
speaker5: looks like it's up to you, stinky sniffer.
speaker2: thorazine? well, that's a little rich for my blood.
speaker2: fool gonna set this place on fire one of these days.
speaker4: i got three stool softeners left. that oughta be right up your alley.
speaker6: who wants jell-o?
speaker4: hey, where you going? we got money on the table here!
speaker2: you know, ray, i've been chewing on what you said this afternoon. i think i got a plan.
speaker4: are you trying to tell me after all this time you finally have a plan for busting out of here?
speaker2: shh! is that so hard to believe?
speaker4: don't tell me, i don't want to hear it. it's probably all up, anyway.
speaker2: you don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear it. there's no shame in that.
speaker4: it's too late for plans.
speaker2: never thought i'd hear ray gibson say that. with you then. you'd only slow me down anyway.
speaker4: hey, man, cover that up!
speaker7: sequence omitted from original script.

speaker1: is everyone here? 
speaker2: hey, where's claude? i don't see claude!
speaker1: stay calm, ray. we'll find him. claude! has anyone seen claude?
speaker2: he must still be in there.
speaker1: wait for the firemen!
speaker2: it'll be too late.
speaker1: you can't go in there, ray! you'll never make it!
speaker2: i'm going in for him. he'd do the same for me.

speaker1: how did it start? 
speaker2: probably old wires. the place was a tinderbox just waiting to go.
speaker1: i guess we should have torn this old building down a long time ago.
speaker2: gibson made it this far before he was probably overcome by smoke. from the look of things, banks never even made it out of bed.

speaker1: man, you really bummed me out. that's a terrible story. nigger, you crying? 
speaker2: hell, no! i just got something in my eye.
speaker3: it's alright for a man to cry once in awhile. just don't make a habit of it.
speaker1: hey, willie, what was claude's plan, anyway?
speaker3: nothing to it, really. claude figured they could steal a couple of bodies from the morgue. they got a couple of crackers working there don't know their from their elbows. then they was gonna set fire to the infirmary and make it look like those bodies was them that got stuck inside. claude figured during the commotion, it wouldn't be too hard to slip onto one of the fire trucks and hang tight until it rolled right on out of here in the morning.
speaker2: what makes you think it didn't work?
speaker3: i never said it didn't work.
speaker1: you trying to tell us that's not ray and claude in those boxes?
speaker2: what do you think about that?
speaker1: i think that old man lost his marbles about a hundred years ago. come on, let's get this over with.

speaker1: i can't eat this. 
speaker2: why the not?
speaker1: i saw that hot dog guy in the bathroom urinating. he didn't wash his hands.
speaker2: just put some mustard on it and eat it.
speaker1: you didn't get ketchup?
speaker2: gimme that thing.
speaker1: what am i gonna eat?
speaker2: have my ice cream.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: of a day for a ballgame, huh, claude?
speaker1: of a day, ray. yankees are on fire.
speaker1: no, this ain't gonna work either. it's half chocolate, half vanilla.
speaker2: so?
speaker1: they're touching.
speaker2: if you don't eat that ice cream right now, i'm gonna strangle you until you are completely dead.
speaker1: yeah? you and what army?
speaker2: next thing, you're gonna be complaining about the seats.
speaker1: well, if you must know, they could be closer.
speaker2: damn, i shoulda let spanky johnson drown you in the river when i had the chance.
speaker1: i know you're not talking to me...
speaker2: i'm sorry, he's on medication...

