speaker1: well, i'm full. you were right, hon. i shouldn't have eaten all that bread. 
speaker1: want to just share a dessert?
speaker1: you okay, babe? you seem out of it.
speaker2: yeah, i'm just thinking about what i want.
speaker1: me too. okay, let's say it at the same time. one. two. three...
speaker3: i want a divorce. creme brulee.

speaker1: it's okay, my fault. 
speaker1: alright, kiddo, it's getting late, let's get you to bed before your parents get home. don't give me the puppy eyes, you little maniac. go brush your teeth!

speaker1: i don't care. i love him and given the opportunity, i'd have his babies. 
speaker2: seriously? conan o'brien? you'd do conan o'brien?
speaker1: i'm just saying, richard's a lot of things: successful, smart...
speaker2: boring, workaholic, sexually repressed...

speaker1: but he's not very funny, that's all. 
speaker2: yeah, well, you want funny, go watch `cosby' reruns. you want a good lay, go get yourself some of... that.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the hot piece that's been checking you out for the last hour.

speaker1: aren't you going to say anything? 
speaker1: almost twenty-five years of marriage, you have nothing to say?

speaker1: close the door! 
speaker2: who slams the door shut.
speaker3: i'm sorry, robbie! i didn't see anything, i swear.
speaker4: robbie lies there frozen, horrified.
speaker5: meanwhile, where liz and hannah keep drinking.
speaker6: i don't know, hannah. your life is just so... pg-13.
speaker7: my life is not pg-13!
speaker6: it so is. you've never left la. you pass the bar you're gonna be, what, a patent lawyer, probably married to that snooze-fest richard. i just worry about you is all. hell, you've resorted to fantasizing about conan `ginger- dick' o'brien.

speaker1: he's funny. 
speaker2: he looks like a carrot, honey.
speaker3: who?
speaker2: hi.
speaker4: hi. who looks like a carrot?
speaker2: conan o'brien. my friend hannah thinks he's sexy.
speaker4: i think your friend hannah is sexy.
speaker1: you didn't really just say that.
speaker4: pretty sure i did.
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker4: thirty-three next month.
speaker1: then you should know by now that cheesy pick-up lines don't work.
speaker4: i find you incredibly sexy. it's a fact, not a cheesy pick-up line.

speaker1: there are many attractive women in this bar -- including your friend here -- and i've been unable to take my eyes off you, only you, for the past two hours. again: not a cheesy pick-up line, just a fact. 
speaker1: answer this quickly, without thinking about your answer: do you find me attractive?
speaker2: i don't.
speaker1: yes you do.
speaker3: yes, she does.
speaker1: i'm an accomplished lover. if you come home with me, i am confident you will leave satisfied. multiple times.
speaker2: you've got to be kiddi--
speaker1: we'll make love and it will be amazing. you'll laugh afterwards and say `i never do this kind of thing.' then you'll do it again.
speaker2: is that so?
speaker1: it is. so now i'm going to ask if i can buy you another drink. if you say yes, we'll have one more cocktail each -- just enough to start losing inhibitions, not enough to get sloppy, after all: i promised to satisfy you.
speaker3: multiple times.

speaker1: that's right. so, here we go, hannah: can i buy you a drink? 
speaker2: what do you expect me to say to that?
speaker1: margarita, rocks, salt.
speaker2: wow.
speaker2: okay, time to go.
speaker3: i'll go home with you, you can call me hannah, i don't give a

speaker1: liz! 
speaker2: another time, maybe.

speaker1: i'm unhappy, cal. i've tried not to be. we've been married so long, somewhere we became... stagnant, you know? 
speaker1: okay, you're not talking and you know that only makes me talk more. maybe that's good, maybe that's good. okay...

speaker1: there's this person. 
speaker1: we've been spending time together. lunches, meetings, that kind of stuff...
speaker1: i slept with him. kind of.
speaker1: no, no kind of. i can't believe i said kind of. that's just not something you do in a kind of way. i slept with someone. there. i said it. i slept with someone. oh it's the worst thing i've ever done but it feels so good to say out loud. i slept with someone. i slept with someone. i slept with someone. i slept with ... please stop me, please say something.
speaker1: david jacobowitz. from work. you met him at the christmas party. you remember that party? they had the giant paper-machã© wreath? i kept asking the decorator how he made it? you wore that sweater -- finally, cal speaks --
speaker2: please stop.
speaker1: the last person in the world i'd ever want to hurt was you, cal --
speaker2: if you keep talking, i'm going to get out of the car.

speaker1: but the fact that i did, that it could happen at all, i think it just shows how broken we are and -- 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: are you out of your mind!? 
speaker2: i'll leave tonight, i'll sign whatever you want me to sign, if you'll just stop talking about it.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: i'm sorry that you had to see that. 
speaker2: i should have knocked.

speaker1: silence. after a long beat. 
speaker2: for the record: i think about you while i do it --
speaker3: robbie!
speaker2: i have a picture of you and i look at it the whole time --
speaker3: stop it!
speaker2: i love you, jessica. and i know you're seventeen, and i know i just turned thirteen, which is the same age as your little brother, and you're technically my baby- sitter, but someday soon our age difference will be inconsequential which is good because...

speaker1: i'm pretty sure you're my soulmate. 
speaker2: listen, robbie --
speaker3: we're home.
speaker1: 
speaker2: hi, mr. and mrs. weaver. how was dinner...
speaker2: oh my mr. weaver, you're bleeding. why are you bleeding?

speaker1: mrs. weaver told me she wants a divorce so i jumped out of the car. hope the kids behaved. come on, i'll drive you home. 
speaker2: dad?
speaker1: oh. i didn't know you were here.
speaker2: you're getting divorced?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: cal!
speaker2: and you jumped out of a car?
speaker1: a moving car, yes.
speaker3: cal!
speaker1: i'm sorry you found out this way.
speaker2: i'm sorry you jumped out of a car.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker1: jessica, you got your coat?
speaker4: uh-huh.

speaker1: we'll talk to the kids tomorrow. tell them we're separating. just separating. we'll do it together. 
speaker1: i'll have to tell nanna. uch, she's gonna be crushed. but not right now. she's got enough to worry about...
speaker1: so, i hear stanford early admission, huh. i know your dad is so proud.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: you're bleeding real bad, mr. weaver.
speaker1: david jacobowitz! are you kidding me!? david jacobowitz!
speaker1: sorry about that.
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker2: mr. weaver, i know you don't know me very well, but i've been baby- sitting for your family for three years. you're the nicest dad of any of the families i baby-sit for, by a country mile.

speaker1: you're funny, and you're always really generous, and you're the only dad who's excited -- genuinely excited -- to check on his kids when he gets home from dinner. now i like mrs. weaver, i like her a lot, but if she wants to divorce you, well... then i think she's batshit crazy. 
speaker1: in fact -- and, i hope this doesn't make you uncomfortable -- i think i've even developed a

speaker1: hey: do me a favor -- can you not mention what's going on between mrs. weaver and i to your parents? it's probably better they hear it from us. okay? 
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: that's my girl.
speaker1: hey, jessica? thanks for listening.
speaker1: you put this to that fake id you'll need up at stanford.

speaker1: another vodka cranberry? 
speaker2: yes. just... yes.
speaker2: guess what?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: my wife is having with someone who isn't me.
speaker3: i'm sorry to hear that.
speaker2: that's very nice of you to say. she just told me tonight, obviously it came as a bit of a shock and you're not listening anymore.
speaker2: i bet you wouldn't ignore me if i were david jacobowitz. my wife doesn't ignore david jacobowitz. she screws him.

speaker1: so it's pretty no-frills. unit 2 is a lot like unit 1 except you're downstairs so... the ground is closer. which is nice. 
speaker2: i guess the price is right.
speaker1: yeah, well, tons of divorced guys here. you'll fit right in.
speaker2: i'll take it.
speaker1: ooh, the gym has an elliptical machine... i assume you want to get back in shape?
speaker2: i guess.
speaker1: great! i'll let you know when they fix it.

speaker1: keep it up you're going to be sitting in my seat by year's end. really great, cal. seriously. 
speaker2: who told you tracy and i were getting a divorce?
speaker1: divorce! that's it. amy heard you crying in the bathroom. we all thought it was cancer. thank
speaker2: i have to go buy furniture now.
speaker1: go for it! it could have been cancer, buddy!

speaker1: can i help you, sir? 
speaker2: my wife is sleeping with david jacobowitz. i need a couch.
speaker1: ooh, i understand. can i give you a word of advice, one divorced man to another? if you don't mind?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: get the matching chaise, killer deal.
speaker2: i want it in beige.

speaker1: oh, no, i'm sorry, i'm waiting for a friend. 
speaker2: you've been holding the seat for an hour.
speaker1: yeah, well, my wife is david jacobowitz so eat me.

speaker1: can't help but notice that you're always surrounded by women. multiple women. 
speaker1: i'm getting divorced. or, in the process. gonna be single again.
speaker1: any advice?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: jacob zips, flushes, turns. 
speaker2: don't start conversations with people while they're pissing.
speaker3: so gay.

speaker1: sorry i'm late, i had to pick something up from macy's. 
speaker2: don't worry about it, here, sit, i've been guarding this stool with my life.
speaker2: it's good to see you, man. i've called you a few times. it's been a rough couple of days, obviously. nothing i could use more than my old pal bernie to unload on. hey, we should play racquetball, when's the last time we played racquetball?
speaker1: claire won't let me be friends with you anymore.
speaker2: i'm sorry, what?
speaker1: she said we had to choose between you and tracy. i chose you. she said no.

speaker1: it's cologne. 
speaker2: are you breaking up with me?
speaker1: claire's waiting in the car. um... there's a gift receipt in there. sorry.
speaker2: do you have anything with a worm in it? because i'd like a gallon of that now.

speaker1: i'd like to buy you a drink, cal. 
speaker2: i already have a drink.
speaker1: let me buy you a drink, cal.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: my wife is cheating on me with --
speaker1: david jacobowitz, yes, cal, i've heard. we've all heard. for the last two nights, i've watched you batter every poor soul in this bar with your sad-sack loser sob story.
speaker2: you know what, i don't need this

speaker1: sit down, cal. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: cal, i'm going to make you an offer, it's probably the best offer you're ever going to get, and you're extremely drunk, so it's wildly important that you don't answer until i've finished and you've taken a few moments to process what i'm saying. do you understand? 
speaker1: as i said, i've been watching you for two days now and i can say, without hesitation, that you are the sorriest man i've ever seen in my life -- don't interrupt, cal, it's the truth, and you need to hear it. you're sitting there with your supercut haircut, getting drunk on watered down vodka-cranberries like a fourteen- year-old girl, wearing a 41r jacket when you should be wearing a 40l -- i don't know if i want to help you or euthanize you -- stop drinking out of the straw, cal.
speaker1: you asked me for advice before, cal, so i'm going to help you. i don't know why. maybe i'm just bored. maybe all my friends have abandoned me for wives and children and labradoodle puppies, who cares why? why doesn't matter. the point is, you've got a good face, and a good head of hair, and i'm bored as and need a project. so if you want, i'm going to help you rediscover your manhood. do you remember when it was that you lost it?

speaker1: doesn't matter, we'll find it. and when we do, when i'm through with you, that wife of yours is going to rue the day she decided to give up on you too early. that's my offer. what do you say? 
speaker2: yeah, okay.
speaker1: mall food court, thursday, six o'clock.
speaker2: i'm sorry, what?
speaker1: you ready to go?

speaker1: cal? 
speaker1: i just wanted to say that...
speaker1: 
speaker1: do you want me to back that thing out of the driveway for you?
speaker2: i'll be fine.
speaker1: you have trouble in reverse is all.
speaker2: it was two times --
speaker1: three if you count my father's foot.
speaker2: i did that on purpose.
speaker1: i knew it.
speaker2: once i'm settled, i'll get the kids so they can see the place.

speaker1: i think i'm have a mid-life crisis maybe. can women have mid-life crisis? 
speaker2: make sure the lawn gets enough water.
speaker1: in the movies it's always men having them and buying ridiculous yellow porsches, but i'm not a man and i really don't want a yellow

speaker1: you have to fertilize once a month. not twice a month, not once every two months. she takes a deep breath, finding her balance. 
speaker2: we got married so young, cal. and i'm forty-one. and that's so much older than i thought i'd be.
speaker1: the sprinklers turn off behind you.
speaker2: and i got really upset with an umpire at molly's t-ball game last month -- like really upset, like i screamed at him and wished he would die -- and i started feeling like the person i promised i wouldn't turn into, you know?
speaker1: if it rains a lot, you need to shut off the automatic setting.
speaker2: and we haven't been us, not for a long time. and i don't know when you and i stopped being `us' but... i mean, do you?

speaker1: i think it was when you screwed david jacobowitz. 
speaker1: make sure my azaleas get enough sun.
speaker1: okay, well, this is it. what do you think? didn't have a lot of time to house-hunt, but...
speaker1: there's a second bedroom with twin beds so you two can stay over whenever you want! anytime!
speaker2: so... you're like, actually going to live here?
speaker1: hey, hey. come on now, you'll visit all the time. every weekend. it won't be that bad.
speaker3: don't you love us anymore?
speaker1: listen, baby. what's happening with your mommy and i... it's not what either of us wanted, not what either of us planned.

speaker1: don't take it personally. that show's like crack to her. 
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: you?
speaker1: can i say something with a curse?
speaker2: yeah. why not?
speaker1: love is
speaker2: is that so? you in love, buddy?
speaker1: well, if you must know --
speaker3: ding dong.
speaker1: what is she doing here?
speaker2: oh, right, hey, jess, thanks for

speaker1: i have to run out really quickly, just for a few hours, and your mother wants you to stay here while she's out hooking -- 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: huh?
speaker3: the place is... nice, mr. weaver.
speaker1: yes, well, that's a generous adjective, thank you.
speaker1: anyhow, jess is gonna keep an eye on you guys for a few.
speaker2: but i don't need a babysitter! she's only four years older than me! you need to know that! she needs to know that!
speaker1: i know, buddy.
speaker1: my little boy's growing up, jess. he's in love already, can you believe it?
speaker1: molly, say bye-bye to daddy?
speaker2: wait, where are you going?
speaker1: i'm, uh... i decided to take a class.

speaker1: that's great, mr. weaver. it's a difficult time for you, it's important that you find new interests, try new things, maybe things you'd never have considered trying before... 
speaker2: okay, well... molly, last chance!?
speaker2: that's my angel. back in a few.
speaker3: but, dad --
speaker2: nope.
speaker3: i don't need a baby-sitter.
speaker1: i know, robbie.
speaker3: i love you so much --
speaker1: christ.
speaker2: what am i doing?

speaker1: i think you're wrong. i think that's tucker. 
speaker2: no, no, no. chris rock is the stand-up comedian. chris tucker is the actor.
speaker3: is it racist that i can't tell them apart?
speaker4: well, richard: thank you for inviting me to hannah's `goodbye' party. the conversation has been riveting, like stepping back in time. before i go, a toast.
speaker4: sweetie: go into your hole and study your cute little off for that bar exam. we'll see you when you emerge.
speaker1: she's gonna kick that bar's butt!
speaker4: yeah, okay.

speaker1: liz chugs her drink, turns to hannah. 
speaker2: i'll walk you out.
speaker3: hey, liz? when my girl passes, we're gonna have another little celebration, right here. hope you can make it. it's going to be a special night.
speaker4: richard, you just give me a heads- up so i can get really drunk before-hand, okay?
speaker3: you know it!
speaker2: did you hear that? `it's going to be a special night.' you think he's going to propose?
speaker4: at the cheesecake factory? oh i hope not.
speaker4: why? do you really want him to?
speaker2: he's nice.
speaker4: yeah, well... really? okay. not my life, i love you, call me if you need anything.

speaker1: you're late. sbarro's? 
speaker2: no thanks. so what exactly are

speaker1: how much money can you afford to spend on clothes today? 
speaker2: i dunno. five hundred?
speaker1: three thousand.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: we'll start with shoes. let me see those sneakers you're wearing.
speaker1: take them off.
speaker1: other one too, please?
speaker2: what the hell!?
speaker1: are you in a fraternity, cal?
speaker2: those were my favorite shoes.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: are you steve jobs?
speaker1: what?

speaker1: no. i'm not steve jobs. 
speaker2: then you don't need to walk around in new balance sneaker, ever.
speaker1: i think this whole thing might have been a bad idea.
speaker2: any man can rebuild his entire wardrobe with sixteen simple items.
speaker1: ha! i think i read that in gq.
speaker2: you did. i wrote it.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: numbers one and two: pair of dress shoes, pair of loafers.

speaker1: cal is looking at a pair of argyle socks. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i'm lost: do you really write for gq?
speaker3: your credit card please?

speaker1: cal gets fitted. 
speaker2: two suits: one black, one grey. one sports jacket, navy preferred.
speaker2: take it in there... and there.

speaker1: one pair of quality jeans. 
speaker2: these are two hundred and thirty dollars. can't we just go to the gap?

speaker1: jacob immediately heads back inside and answers: 
speaker2: no, cal. we can't just go to the gap.
speaker3: what's wrong with the gap?
speaker2: in hell, every store is the gap, that's what's wrong with the gap, cal. it's lowest common denominator. be better than the gap, cal.
speaker4: jacob holds up a pair of beige slacks.
speaker2: one pair of chinos.
speaker2: four dress shirts.
speaker2: three casual button-downs.
speaker5: cal struggles to get a sweater over his neck.
speaker2: two v-neck cashmere sweaters, and finally, a long overcoat.
speaker3: i'm very warm.

speaker1: you rub this in around your eyes every night and every morning. 
speaker2: what does it do?
speaker1: it gives you x-ray vision, cal.
speaker2: oh my it does.

speaker1: i like to use a number four on the sides and the back, go longer on the top. 
speaker2: oh, okay. thanks for that, vidal sassoon. tiffany, hon? scissor cut, tight on sides, get him some texture up top, take off about...
speaker1: eww.
speaker2: ... inch off the top.
speaker3: yes, sir.

speaker1: what are you putting on? 
speaker2: items one, three, eleven, and fourteen.
speaker1: perfect. you smell great by the way.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: what are you doing tonight?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: that's okay, i do.
speaker2: seriously? you just ask her out like that?
speaker1: yes, cal, just like that.
speaker2: and it works?
speaker4: yes. yes.
speaker2: crazy.
speaker2: okay, i feel kind of stupid but...

speaker1: wow. 
speaker2: yep.
speaker3: can i blouse out the shirt a little? i like to blouse out my shirts a little.
speaker2: shut up, cal.
speaker2: you'd him, right?
speaker3: 
speaker1: yeah, probably.
speaker3: tiffany! you would!?
speaker2: you see that, cal? the simple act of opening your mouth instantly causes tiffany to lose interest in sleeping with you. your personality is actually your weakest link.
speaker3: well, that's the meanest thing anyone's ever said to me.
speaker2: no, cal. the meanest thing anyone's ever said to you is this: your wife cheated on you because you lost sight of what it took to keep her content at home -- as a man, as a husband, and probably as a lover.

speaker1: i notice you only button your shirts up, like, halfway. i can't pull that off, right? 
speaker2: no. listen, cal, i'm going to be calling women over to our table shortly.
speaker1: we should have some background on each other, no? i'm in insurance, more on the corporate side. my kids are --
speaker2: cal, the only thing i care less about than corporate insurance are your kids. here's the only thing i need to know: how many women have you been with?
speaker1: sexually?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: in my entire life?
speaker2: no, synchronized swimming. yes, cal. sexually.

speaker1: one. 
speaker2: wow, okay... wow. not at a time? total?
speaker1: what? i married young. we met in high school.
speaker1: tracy was so beautiful. you know those women, the ones who can be wildly and unbelievably cute all at once? i never knew how she did that. i still don't know how she does it.
speaker1: anyway, we had a bit of a hiccup our senior year but we made it --
speaker2: cal, i literally stopped listening at `tracy.' okay, here we go.
speaker1: i miss my wife.
speaker2: shut up, cal.
speaker3: hi.
speaker2: hi. jacob palmer.
speaker3: amy johnson.

speaker1: don't. 
speaker2: -- weaver.
speaker1: can i get you a drink, amy?

speaker1: gets handed over to: a new girl, on a new night. 
speaker2: tell me about yourself. what do you do?
speaker3: does it really matter?
speaker2: it does to me.
speaker2: it does to me. she smiles.
speaker4: now with newer girl.
speaker5: and that's when i started writing the column for la weekly. how long have i been talking?

speaker1: let's get out of here. i know it's forward of me but just... i think we should get out of here. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: i think we should get out of here. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: i think we should get out of here. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: robbie stares at the screen, crestfallen. 
speaker2: mr. weaver? are we interrupting?
speaker2: mr. weaver!
speaker3: you want to talk about the scarlet letter, mrs. thompson? here you go: the `a' they're both wearing -- i think it stands for wanna know why? because they're in love, and love is for stupid assholes. so thanks for choosing this book, mrs. thompson, because this is what i need right now: to read a boring, confusing book about a bunch of stupid who fell in love, like and then had to die, like assholes. i'm sorry for cursing.

speaker1: you have a second? 
speaker2: oh, david. i'm just a little swamped right now so...
speaker1: you've been avoiding me.

speaker1: no, i haven't. 
speaker2: you ran away in the other direction when you saw me coming down the hall yesterday.
speaker2: you're very fast by the way.
speaker1: i ran track in high school.
speaker2: that must be it.
speaker2: i'm sorry about you and cal.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: i'm also not sorry, if i'm being completely honest.
speaker2: i want to make sure you know how much i like you.
speaker1: no, i do --
speaker2: a lot. just to clarify. i like you a lot. i had no intention of falling for a married woman. i just wanted someone to go to lunch with who didn't make me want to shoot myself in the face. but we started having lunch, and talking, and suddenly i was an accountant who was popping out of bed in the morning, excited to get to work. that doesn't happen to accountants. ever. i've checked with other accountants.

speaker1: so when the time is right for you to get back out there again, officially, i just... i'd like to throw my hat in the ring. officially. that sounded weird. 
speaker2: david, you've been a great friend to me. and you were the first man in a very long time to make me feel... noticed, i guess? what happened between us that night... it meant something to me. you weren't the only one excited to come to work lately.
speaker2: but now, when i see you, all i see is his face. all i see when i look at you is what i did to my marriage.
speaker2: you see this? i'm saving you from disaster, david, `cause you're asking to pre-board the titanic. honestly, do you really want any part of this?
speaker3: your son's school on two.
speaker2: right, okay. no, i understand. of course, right away.

speaker1: yes, of course. absolutely, principal sapienza, it won't happen again. 
speaker1: seriously?
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: it's been a rough couple of weeks, you deserve a freebie. c'mon, i have to get back to work.
speaker1: they still make kids read the scarlet letter, huh?
speaker1: you'd really think someone would have written something better by now.

speaker1: guess i should take it down, huh? 
speaker2: i guess.

speaker1: how is he? i've spoken to him but only about bills, or you kids, but... how is he, really? 
speaker1: sorry, that's unfair. ignore me, i'm almost done here.
speaker2: he's dressing a lot better. going out a lot.
speaker1: oh. well, good. that's... really good. we'll get take-out for dinner tonight, okay? think about what you're in the mood for.
speaker2: he's sad. he looks better, but...
speaker1: yeah. i guess i'm pretty sad, too.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: you do?
speaker2: i heard you crying the other night and... i didn't know what to do. i'm thirteen years old and... can you just tell me what i'm supposed to do in that situation? i didn't want to google it.

speaker1: oh baby, you're so much like me it's scary. you wound up with all my stuff, robbie. i'm so sorry. 
speaker2: i'm okay with being like you, mom. i like you.
speaker1: it's my fault, what happened with your father. it's grown-up stuff that i can't talk about but... it's my fault. not his. so just... be good to him, okay?
speaker2: it'll be okay, mom.
speaker1: you promise?
speaker3: hey, they need you in the conference room for a sec... oh, sorry.
speaker1: david, this is my son, robbie.
speaker1: we work together.
speaker1: i'll be right back, okay, honey?
speaker4: okay. okay.

speaker1: so, robbie... i hear you're quite the soccer player. 
speaker2: so, david... i hear you broke up my parents' marriage.
speaker2: you are david jacobowitz, right?
speaker1: um, yes i am --
speaker2: here's the thing, david: in the end, she winds up back with my dad. he's better than you, in every category except probably math. and she still loves him.
speaker1: listen, robbie --
speaker2: now i know what you're thinking: `he's just in 8th grade, what does he know about love?' i know a lot more than you think, david. just today, i had a meltdown, almost gave up on the love of my life. my dad's having his meltdown now, but long-term? he won't stop fighting for my mom any more than i won't stop sending jessica texts that make her uncomfortable. and you need to know that.
speaker3: you ready to go?
speaker2: mommy, can we do chinese for dinner tonight?

speaker1: i think you're ready, cal. 
speaker2: for what?

speaker1: to talk to a woman, take a woman home. 
speaker2: oh, no. no, i'm not.
speaker1: you've been watching me do it for two weeks.
speaker2: yeah, well, i've been watching lebron james for years, doesn't mean i can suddenly dunk a basketball.
speaker1: cal, do you remember the part in karate kid, where mr. miagi keeps having the kid wax the car and the kid gets all bent out of shape because he doesn't see the point, but the movements were actually building blocks for throwing and blocking punches?
speaker2: oh are you going to make me fight someone?
speaker1: cal, what's the first thing i do when a woman sits down?
speaker2: you ask if you can buy her a drink.
speaker1: and what if she says no?
speaker2: you order her a drink anyway, let it sit there.
speaker1: when she asks me a question about myself?

speaker1: you deflect it back to her. you never answer questions about yourself. 
speaker2: and what happens?
speaker1: they talk about themselves. a lot.
speaker2: and what do i do?
speaker1: you act really interested. you nod a lot.
speaker2: and at the end of the night?
speaker1: you compliment them, then you ask if they'd like to come back to your place.
speaker2: do i ask?
speaker1: no. you confidently tell them you'd like them to come back to your place.
speaker1: holy you mr. miagi'd me!
speaker2: oh, and no talking about your job, your children, your pathetic sexual history, or david jacobowitz. okay, here we go...
speaker1: what, no, i'm not ready for -- hi!

speaker1: cal, this is kate. kate, cal. 
speaker2: can i buy you a drink, kate?
speaker3: oh. no thank you.
speaker2: i'm buying you a drink anyway, kate, so you might as well tell me what you want.
speaker3: really, thank you but it's okay.
speaker2: i'm guessing you're a vodka girl, am i right? yeah? a nice dirty martini? no, no, no: a grey goose, rocks, extra lime? c'mon, one drink! picture those ice cubes clinking together. mmmm. can't you taste it?
speaker3: yes, i can but... i'm, uh, five years sober so...
speaker4: what can i get --
speaker2: nothing. we don't want anything. don't come back here ever.
speaker3: so... what do you do, cal?
speaker2: what do you do, kate?

speaker1: i asked you first. 
speaker2: i asked you second.
speaker1: seriously, what do you do?
speaker2: seriously, what do you do?
speaker1: i'm a teacher. now, c'mon: what do you do?
speaker2: teacher. interesting. i'm very interested in teaching.
speaker1: i'm sorry, are you not going to tell me what you do?
speaker2: a teacher with an alcohol dependency no less, i bet that's actually more common than people realize...
speaker1: i should get back to my friends -- kate stands. cal puts his face in his hands.
speaker2: i'm sorry! i'm supposed to deflect your questions... oh screw it: i'm in corporate insurance. and i have children. plural. more than one. the only thing i have one of, is sexual partners, that would be the woman i recently separated from because she was cheating on me with david jacobowitz who i wasn't supposed to tell you about either.

speaker1: kate turns back, curious. 
speaker2: what were you supposed to tell me?
speaker3: i don't know: that you're a perfect combination of and cute -- it was something i said about my wife that's since been corrupted. but i'm tired, and i'm at least fifteen years older than you, and this sweater is called slim fitting but it's really just uncomfortable and itchy.
speaker2: you think i'm a perfect combination of and cute?
speaker3: that's what you took away from that?
speaker2: wow, an actual honest man. i don't know what to do with that.
speaker2: it's nice, actually.
speaker3: it is?
speaker2: you have no idea. i'm kind of a magnet for these jerk-offs. they charm me, and i fall for it, and at some point they just... never call me again.
speaker3: i don't understand. look at you. who wouldn't call you again?

speaker1: so... what were you `supposed' to do next? 
speaker2: well, eventually i'm `supposed' to ask you if you want to get out of here. actually no, i'm supposed to tell you, confidently, that you should come home with me.
speaker1: why don't you give it a shot, see what happens?
speaker2: you're very pretty, kate. and i can't tell if you're being serious, but i think you should come home with me.

speaker1: i love that you're being so honest. it's so different, so hot. 
speaker2: i've never been with a woman besides my ex-wife.
speaker1: more, tell me more.
speaker2: i'm worried you have aids.
speaker2: only a little.
speaker1: what do you want to do with me?
speaker2: show you off to my wife to make her jealous.

speaker1: ... it would work! 
speaker2: you're out of your mind.
speaker1: what do college guys hate? doing laundry. what do they love? strippers. it's a strip club where they can do their laundry.
speaker2: it's ridiculous.
speaker1: and yours isn't? a candy store that only sells red candy.
speaker2: everyone loves the cherry. look, i'm not rejecting the psuedo- cherry flavors like raspberry or strawberry, anything in the -erry family is allowed. but let's be real here: no one wants the lemon. no one likes the grape.
speaker1: i like grape.
speaker2: well then you can't come to my store.

speaker1: oh, i almost forgot -- heard some good gossip at the nail salon. 
speaker2: for sake, claire.
speaker1: it's about cal.
speaker2: leave the poor alone, would you? i gave him the cologne like you told me to. we don't have to dance on his grave.
speaker3: what did you hear about mr.

speaker1: apparently, mr. weaver has become quite a man-about-town if you get my drift. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: lots of young women coming in and out of his apartment lately.
speaker3: claire, would you cut it out?
speaker1: it's good for jess to know. she still baby-sits for him after all.

speaker1: oh, c'mon! enough. 
speaker2: well, it's good gossip at the least. ooh, guess what else i heard...

speaker1: madison! madison, wait! 
speaker1: hey, i had a question --
speaker2: hey, jessica, whassup?
speaker1: i had a question for you, madison. it's kind of on the personal side so...
speaker2: my lips are...
speaker2: seals.
speaker1: oh, okay. so, madison, here's the thing... i don't mean to be blunt or insulting but, let's call it what it is: you're always sleeping with older guys, right?

speaker1: always. 
speaker2: lots of college guys, i've heard.
speaker1: lots of them.
speaker2: even rumors about a few teachers.
speaker1: totally.
speaker2: so my question is: how do you do that? i mean, how do you get them not to see you as... well, a kid in high school?
speaker1: oh, well first off, i have a huge rack.
speaker2: you do, yes.
speaker1: so that helps.
speaker2: yes, i'm sure it does.
speaker1: you don't have a huge rack.
speaker2: no, i don't unfortunately.
speaker1: so that's not gonna work.
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: okay, here's what you do. wait, how old is he?
speaker2: old.

speaker1: like really old? 
speaker2: like parent old.
speaker1: nasty. rock on, jessica.
speaker2: thank you, madison.
speaker1: alright, you have to hook him. force his hand. make him unable to stop himself from doing what he knows to be wrong.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: do what i do. send him a postcard from downtown.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: go tmz on his ass.
speaker2: i'm not following you, madis--
speaker1: the full gyno.
speaker1: a crotch shot? a nip slip?
speaker1: a dirty picture! you can even annie leibowitz it. tasteful but with nipple. yeah, that's what you should do: make it artistic. black and white. make this face.
speaker2: madison!

speaker1: well, you came to me for advice, that's my advice. you put those across his radar, he won't see you as a little girl anymore, that's for sure. 
speaker1: don't send it to him as a jpeg, though. he'll put it up on his fantasy football web-site. and then your brother sees it, tells your mom, and suddenly you're not allowed to use facebook for a month. thanks, kevin!

speaker1: nathaniel hawthorne wrote in the scarlet letter: `no man for any considerable period can wear one face to himself and another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which may be the true.' 
speaker1: i am not bewildered! jessica riley is my soulmate. she's the one! i know it to be true, and so now do the multitude.
speaker1: multitudes? no, multitude.
speaker2: robbie, get down!
speaker1: i have marked myself with this scarlet j, jessica! for you. because your name starts with a j. it's just tape and construction paper but one day i will get a permanent tattoo when i'm old enough that my parents won't freak out on me.
speaker2: robbie weaver! i am your baby- sitter and i'm telling you to get

speaker1: what the are you thinking? 
speaker2: you like the scaffold? it has wheels. took four weeks to build it.
speaker2: oh, those are my friends, they helped me wheel it down. wave hello.

speaker1: this has to stop, robbie. 
speaker2: you'll learn to love me. i promise.
speaker1: i won't.
speaker2: just because i'm four years younger than you?

speaker1: i've been spending time with him for a while. robbie stumbles, less sure-footed than usual. 
speaker2: no. you can't. i've checked. no boyfriend since ninth grade. no date for spring formal last

speaker1: he's older. i don't want my parents to know. 
speaker2: who is he?
speaker1: it doesn't matter.
speaker2: do i know him? is he from town?
speaker1: i don't know. yes, kind of.

speaker1: i'll kill him if he hurts you. 
speaker2: i know. but this all has to stop now, robbie. the speeches, the texts, all of it. it's very sweet, but it has to stop.
speaker2: i'll see you around, okay?
speaker3: we should probably get the scaffold back on the road before dark.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: hey, nanna! i know, it's been forever. have you been getting out at all? i'll bring you some of that deli you like one night, okay? the kids? they're fine. kids, say hi to nanna. 
speaker2: hi, nanna!
speaker1: oh, i've been keeping busy. made a new buddy, i've been spending time with him. yeah, i'm going to see her tomorrow night. of course i miss her. you don't know how much i miss...

speaker1: so you're seeing mom tomorrow, huh? at my parent-teacher thing? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: first time in a while.
speaker2: yeah, but no biggie.
speaker2: hey, what's with the moping?
speaker1: nothing. it's just... there's this girl.
speaker2: oh yeah? you like her?
speaker1: i like pringles. this girl's my soulmate. i'm like crazy, stupid, in love with her. and she wants someone else.
speaker2: but she's your soulmate?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well you can't just give up.

speaker1: why not? you did. 
speaker1: mom was yours, right?
speaker2: i didn't give up.
speaker1: listen, dad. i love you. i have your back, always. but let's be honest here: the woman told you she wanted a divorce and you jumped out of a car.
speaker2: it was slightly more complicated than that. and i'm a different guy now.
speaker1: you're the same guy. you just have different clothes. do you still love her?
speaker2: how old are you?
speaker1: do you still love mom?
speaker2: weren't we talking about you?
speaker1: we are. your son is in desperate need of some romantic inspiration. so set an example for your boy. don't give up. it's complicated? uncomplicate it. she says no? change her mind. look at you, you're the man right now, dad.
speaker1: get back my mom.

speaker1: wow. 
speaker1: you look great, cal.
speaker2: oh, well turns out i've been buying the wrong size suit for twenty years so...
speaker1: well you look great. really.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: you always look great, so...
speaker2: i talked to nanna yesterday.
speaker1: me, too. she sound okay to you?
speaker2: she sounded like... nanna. she worries about us.

speaker1: tracy nods. a long beat, then: 
speaker2: i feel like i'm about to get detention.
speaker2: which teacher is this?
speaker3: mrs. thompson. this is the one he pulled the scarlet letter routine on.
speaker2: he's a really weird kid, isn't he?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker3: i kind of like him, though.
speaker2: i do, too. i'm so glad we switched the babies at the hospital.
speaker3: me, too.
speaker2: so, how are things with... how's it going with david?
speaker3: oh... it's not.
speaker3: it wasn't about him, if that means anything.
speaker2: no, i know.

speaker1: cal looks at his watch, a nervous gesture. 
speaker2: you seeing anyone?
speaker3: who, me? no. you know me. no, not really.
speaker2: oh. because you hear things, you know.
speaker3: yeah, well...
speaker3: i miss you, t.
speaker3: i got complacent, i think. you find your soulmate in high school... you've got the game sewed up in the first quarter, you know?
speaker3: i put in an effort when we were younger, didn't i? i'd do anything to make you happy: take you miniature golfing, dancing -- you were such a good dancer.
speaker2: i had to be. you were such a good miniature golfer.
speaker3: all i ever wanted to do was make you love me. and then you did, really early on. and we got married so young. and i guess... i got lazy. i got boring. and i'm furious at you for what you did. but i don't totally blame you, if that makes any sense?

speaker1: i shouldn't have jumped out of the car. i should have fought for you. you fight for your soulmate. at least that's what our thirteen- year-old tells me. 
speaker2: he's a very strange boy, isn't he?
speaker1: i'll be honest: he scares the out of me.
speaker2: i missed you, too.
speaker3: mr. and mrs. weaver?

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: cal? what are you doing here?
speaker1: really?
speaker3: you two know each other?
speaker1: um, yes... we've met before.

speaker1: we've met before? seriously? 
speaker2: mrs. thompson? this is my wife.
speaker1: oh, so now she's your wife again?
speaker2: why don't we head inside?

speaker1: i'm sorry, i'm playing catch-up: how do you two know each other? 
speaker2: maybe your husband should tell you.
speaker3: we have a mutual friend.
speaker2: ha!
speaker3: you know, maybe we should focus on robbie?
speaker2: yes, let's do that. let's focus on robbie.

speaker1: as you know, robbie's shining moment this year was when he set a school record for cursing in an eighth grade english class. 
speaker1: are you familiar with this word, mrs. weaver?
speaker2: she's heard it, yes. so in terms of robbie's progress --
speaker1: asshole: as in, someone who tells a woman that he'll call, and never does.
speaker2: we were a little concerned about robbie's grade on his oral book

speaker1: asshole: as in, someone who uses `honesty' to get a woman into bed with him, but is actually full of like the rest of them. 
speaker2: because usually he's a very strong public speaker --
speaker1: asshole: as in, someone who allows a woman to go down on him for forty-five minutes because he's `nervous' --

speaker1: i can explain. 
speaker1: she's an alcoholic! you can't trust what she says!

speaker1: tracy, wait! 
speaker2: leave me alone, cal!
speaker3: i'm sober for five years, you

speaker1: tracy, c'mon! we were separated. 
speaker2: i know, and i cheated, so it doesn't make any sense for me to be mad at you.
speaker1: okay, so --
speaker2: i can't do this now, cal.
speaker1: tracy, i love you.
speaker3: tell her she's the perfect combination of and cute,

speaker1: it's a funny story, actually -- 
speaker2: i'm going home.
speaker1: tracy, wait! yes, i slept with her! i slept with our son's eighth grade teacher!
speaker1: but all it did was confirm what i already knew: that i love, you!
speaker1: before, you were the only woman i'd ever been with or wanted to be with. and now, even after i've been with eleven women, you're
speaker3: he instantly trails off, realizing. more gasps.
speaker1: ... the only woman i want to be with.
speaker2: i don't even know who you are.
speaker1: i'm your soulmate.

speaker1: excuse me, everyone. everyone!? 
speaker1: now, if we could get our guest of honor over here... i forget what she looks like, anyone remember?
speaker1: i'm so proud of you, baby. i had my doubts, of course...
speaker1: now i did tell you that it'd be a special night when you passed the bar. and i'm a lawyer so you know i never lie...
speaker1: so, hannah, i'd like to formally ask you, in front of all our friends and colleagues...

speaker1: hannah waits, frozen. 
speaker2: ... if you'd like to become a permanent lawyer at the firm of watkins, goldberg, and schmidt!?
speaker2: you don't have a better offer already, do you?
speaker3: no, that's great. i just... i'm sorry, i thought... i thought you were about to propose.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: no, i just... it's fine. i'm sorry, i just got thrown is all.
speaker2: honey, i'm so sorry, i didn't realize.
speaker3: no, no, don't be silly, it's fine.
speaker2: it's definitely a possibility, down the road. i think i just need a little more time. i'm still figuring out how i feel about us, you know: long-term.
speaker3: no, i know...
speaker3: wait -- you're figuring out how you feel about us?

speaker1: honey? 
speaker2: you know what the best part is: i would have said yes! to you! and i didn't even want you to propose! just now, i swear to god: i was hoping you wouldn't propose. and i still would have said yes! that's how pathetic i am!
speaker2: i will consider your job offer, thank you so much, richard.

speaker1: and you know what she said? 
speaker2: what? what did she say?

speaker1: she spots him, marches straight to him. 
speaker2: do you remember me?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: do you still think i'm attractive?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: do you still want to take me home?
speaker3: yes.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker4: slut.

speaker1: this place looks like something out of a men's magazine. 
speaker2: is that a compliment?
speaker1: i'm not sure.
speaker1: i like this song.
speaker2: i thought you would.
speaker2: drink?
speaker1: yes, please.
speaker2: cheers.
speaker1: cheers.
speaker1: so is this how it normally works?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: how you woo a woman? you take them back to your granite- countered bachelor pad, put on the perfect song, and make them a drink?

speaker1: yes. that's how it normally works. 
speaker2: and then you sleep with them?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: so that's what happens next? we sleep together?
speaker1: at some point, yes, i was under the impression that was your plan.
speaker2: i'm very nervous.
speaker1: i'm getting that.
speaker2: i know at the bar i seemed confident, but i was more just soaking wet and cold and trying to be dramatic.
speaker1: you're adorable.
speaker2: no! not adorable! sexy! r-rated sexy! because i know what happens next in the pg-13 version of tonight: i get really drunk, and i pass out, and you cover me with a blanket, and kiss my forehead, and nothing happens... but that's not why i'm here!
speaker2: i'm here to bang the hot guy from the bar who hit on me.

speaker1: i don't think people say `bang' anymore. 
speaker2: i do. we're going to bang. i'm finally going to do something exciting and dangerous and liz can blow me!
speaker2: okay, okay, this is happening.
speaker2: take off your shirt.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i need to stop thinking. take off your shirt.
speaker2: holy crap.
speaker2: it's like you're photo-shopped.
speaker1: now take off yours.
speaker2: no way! not with all that happening...
speaker2: so... do you prefer to do it here or in the bedroom?
speaker1: in the bedroom is preferable.

speaker1: this pillow is amazing. it forms perfectly to the shape of my head. 
speaker2: i'm glad you like it.
speaker1: wait, are these those foam pillows from brookstone?
speaker1: they are, aren't they!? i always wondered who actually buys them! you do! the hot guy from the bar buys them! of course! she shakes her head, amazed. gathers herself.
speaker1: sorry, let's proceed.
speaker1: you don't have one of those ridiculous massage chairs, do you?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: oh. my. you totally do!
speaker1: i do.
speaker2: how much did it cost?
speaker1: five thousand doll--

speaker1: do me a favor. ask me a question about myself. 
speaker2: what? no! i don't want to know anything about you.
speaker1: c'mon, one question.
speaker2: okay, fine, but then we bang.
speaker1: absolutely. now, come on, i'll answer anything. you can ask me about my job, or past

speaker1: icy... i guess? not cruel, but cold. very cold. 
speaker2: and your father?
speaker1: he died, long time ago. left us a lot of money, which is how i have...
speaker1: stuff like this.
speaker2: and time for stuff like that?
speaker1: my dad was the opposite of my mom, actually...

speaker1: i had fun tonight, tracy. and i was wondering if -- 
speaker2: david, stop. look, i had a nice time, which is a substantial upgrade from the rest of the... times i've been having lately. so, i don't think i'm ready to start dating but my ex clearly is and there's a yogurt shop where they make this eight calorie ice cream that tastes like a laxative, so if you'd like to take me there sometime i guess i wouldn't say no.
speaker1: wow. you know, that's exactly what i was thinking. it's almost uncanny.
speaker3: hello.
speaker2: oh, jessica. hi. sorry. jessica, this is my work-friend.

speaker1: he's an accountant named david. david, this is my baby-sitter, jessica. okay, david, well everything sounds great. spreadsheets. 
speaker2: i'll see you at work.

speaker1: so... how was dinner? 
speaker2: it was just for work.
speaker1: it's a pretty dress.
speaker2: oh, thanks.
speaker2: so how much do i owe yo--
speaker1: did you know your kids are the only ones i baby-sit for who always want to stay awake so they can see their dad when he gets home. i mean, they fight with everything they have to keep their eyes open so they can hear what dad had for dinner, or how he liked the movie. lot of kids want to stay awake for mom -- and your kids always want to see you, don't get me wrong -- but not a lot wait up for dad. maybe it's because he's good, and he's kind, and he's decent.

speaker1: what are you talking abo-- 
speaker2: batshit crazy. she walks out the door. tracy looks confused.
speaker1: jessica?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hi, cal.
speaker2: so... i'm in the basement. i'm trying to get the water heater working `cause the pilot's out and i don't know how to relight it. obviously cal sees she's not in the basement.
speaker2: i'm sorry to bother you, i just... what do i do?
speaker1: it's fine, it's fine. i'm glad you called. here: i'll walk you through it.
speaker1: do you see the little grey door?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: pull it down.
speaker2: okay, it's down.
speaker1: now, you see the red button? i wrote `push' on it?
speaker2: i got it.
speaker1: push. now turn that to the right and stick the match in.
speaker2: oh, there it goes!

speaker1: good. now just close the door and you're good to go. 
speaker2: well, thanks, cal. i... appreciate your help.
speaker1: no, anytime. call anytime with stuff like that.
speaker1: talk to you later?
speaker2: yeah. and... thanks again.

speaker1: nanna's coming over tonight. you guys haven't seen her in a while. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: your mom's working till five, we'll have to tell her. what do you guys want to do today?
speaker3: high school musical.
speaker1: well, there's a shocker.
speaker2: she still won't talk to you?

speaker1: not if that show's on. 
speaker2: no, i mean, mom.
speaker1: oh, no. just hellos and goodbyes when we pass you guys off.
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: beyond your pay-grade, buddy.
speaker1: i will say this though: i got close. we were laughing. talking about old times, all the things we used to do...
speaker1: hey. get your coat.
speaker1: baby? i'm gonna have to turn off the show.
speaker3: no!
speaker1: i have to --

speaker1: oh, hey, cal. 
speaker2: bernie.
speaker1: so how've you --
speaker2: bernie: i'd love to catch up, but i'm doing something at the old house tonight and i'm in a bit of a rush so... yeah. thanks again for the cologne.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hey, cal.
speaker1: oh. my. it's alive.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i know i've been out of circulation.
speaker1: you abandoned me at my time of need.
speaker2: i've been a little... things have gotten a bit... i met a woman.
speaker1: i bet you did.
speaker2: no, i mean, i've been spending a lot of time with her. this woman.
speaker1: okay, whatever.
speaker2: actually, tonight... i'm going to meet her mother.
speaker1: whoa!!!! look at you! you do realize you might actually have to answer a question or two about yourself?

speaker1: yes, i realize that, 
speaker1: gotta go. grab a beer next week?
speaker2: you've got my number.
speaker2: hey. good for you, by the way.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: baby! what are you wearing!? 
speaker2: dad's here.
speaker2: i have to blindfold you.
speaker1: what is this? what is he doing?

speaker1: relax, mom. he's your husband, not al queda. you'll make it out alive. 
speaker1: okay, we're good, let's do this.

speaker1: hi, t. 
speaker2: can i take these off, please?
speaker1: almost. kids?

speaker1: twenty-five years ago, cal weaver saw tracy boyle for the first time, walking the halls of woodside middle school -- 
speaker2: cal: are you seriously doing this in front of the kids?
speaker3: if it goes bad i'm supposed to take molly upstairs and put the tv on loud.
speaker2: well, might as well wait for your daughter.
speaker1: she's right next to you, t.
speaker2: no, your other daughter.
speaker4: hello?

speaker1: nanna! 
speaker2: hi, daddy.
speaker3: cal?

speaker1: what the are you doing here? 
speaker2: what the are you doing here?
speaker3: wait, you two know each other?
speaker4: hi, nanna.
speaker1: wait, what's going on?
speaker5: hey, nanna.
speaker3: hey, robbie.
speaker6: hey, nanna.
speaker3: hey, cutie.

speaker1: it's me, i couldn't pronounce hannah when i was little -- wait, so how do you know my dad? 
speaker2: oh,

speaker1: dad, this is my boyfriend, jacob. 
speaker2: no. no. no. no.

speaker1: so you two, like, really know each other? 
speaker2: no way -- you and her... no way.
speaker1: daddy!!!
speaker3: well, that's not going to happen.
speaker2: well, then i'm going to murder you.

speaker1: will someone please take this thing off me! 
speaker2: robbie, take the thing off your mother! bernie?

speaker1: daddy, no! 
speaker2: is that jessica?
speaker3: daddy!
speaker1: daddy!

speaker1: jacob! 
speaker2: bernie, i don't know what you're

speaker1: daddy, stop! 
speaker1: he didn't do anything. he doesn't even know.

speaker1: know what? 
speaker2: know what?
speaker3: robbie, please get this off me!
speaker1: i'm trying!
speaker4: he doesn't even know that i'm in love with him!
speaker1: with who?
speaker4: with him.
speaker2: are you pointing at me?
speaker1: are you pointing at him?
speaker3: who is she pointing at!?
speaker1: wait: my dad is the older guy you've been seeing?
speaker5: i knew it.
speaker4: he doesn't even know about the dirty pictures i made for him.
speaker1: you made him dirty pictures? oh

speaker1: you're the one? you're the one she... you stole my soulmate. 
speaker2: wait: jessica is your soulmate?
speaker3: i'm sorry, is tracy home?
speaker4: you left your sweater in my car the other night.
speaker5: who are you?
speaker4: david jacobowitz.
speaker6: david jacobowitz!
speaker2: david jacobowitz!?
speaker4: is this a bad time --
speaker5: jacob!
speaker6: you know how much misery you've put this poor through!?
speaker2: stay the away from my daughter.

speaker1: well, okay. that should about do it. what do you think? 
speaker1: look, i'm just gonna write domestic disturbance reported but all clear, okay? `cause honestly, i don't even know what to put down here.
speaker2: thank you, officer.
speaker1: just... simmer down, okay? we all have arguments, but if you're gonna fight -- just do it inside. keep it in the family, okay? jacob snarfs down a laugh. cal glares at him.
speaker3: i'll kill you.

speaker1: let's go. now. 
speaker2: i'm so sorry --

speaker1: jacob approaches cal. 
speaker2: don't.

speaker1: oh, that's ironic. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, what?

speaker1: you may not be able to see it, but i have. over and over again. you are not to see him any more. 
speaker2: dad, c'mon, i'm not going to stop seeing him.
speaker1: well then i don't have anything else to say to you.

speaker1: cal, stop being unreasona-- 
speaker2: i said: get the out of my

speaker1: cal, c'mon -- but cal won't even look at him. 
speaker2: goodbye, nanna.

speaker1: goodbye, cutie. 
speaker2: she's all yours, david.

speaker1: go big or go home, right, buddy? 
speaker2: go home, dad.

speaker1: can i get you another? 
speaker2: what time is it?
speaker1: 2:30. in the afternoon.
speaker2: 2:30 would have been sufficient but i appreciate the judgment, cocktail waitress.
speaker2: yes, another drink would be grand. she exits.
speaker2: that was uncalled for. sorry for being a
speaker3: ah, it's okay, i deserved it.

speaker1: it's a nice sweatsuit, cal. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: can i sit?
speaker2: i don't know, can you?

speaker1: okay, are we going to be mature about this, or act like children? 
speaker2: `are we going to be mature or act like children?'
speaker1: okay, so like children then. move over.
speaker1: i'd like to talk.
speaker2: you still seeing my daughter?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: then i have nothing to say to you.
speaker1: cal.
speaker1: cal, look at me.
speaker1: you been hanging out here a lot?
speaker2: sometimes.
speaker1: must be missing a lot of work.
speaker2: i have a lot of vacation days.
speaker1: some vacation.
speaker2: i hate the beach... you've got a lot of nerve coming here --

speaker1: you want a sip? 
speaker2: no, she probably spit in it.
speaker1: your kids miss you.
speaker2: you're hanging out with my kids, fantastic! you can teach robbie how to objectify women, he'll love that.
speaker1: his eighth grade graduation is next week. you coming?
speaker2: of course i'm coming.
speaker1: well you haven't exactly been around for him, cal.
speaker2: he's not my biggest fan right now.
speaker1: oh, that's a good excuse --
speaker2: alright, man-whore, if your lecture on parental responsibility is almost done --
speaker1: i love her, cal.
speaker1: i've never been in love before. honestly, i've never even been in `like' before.
speaker1: i never got it. i saw people in love -- i saw weakness. i heard them say the things they said, and do the things they do, it all just seemed so... so pathetic.

speaker1: she's my perfect combination of everything, cal. 
speaker2: i know you. i know what you are. you are not good enough for my daughter. and you will never have my permission nor my approval.
speaker1: i'll see you at graduation.

speaker1: our next speaker is not only the class salutatorian, but he's also one of the most... 
speaker1: spirited... young men, i've ever had the pleasure of teaching. ladies and gentlemen: robbie weaver.
speaker2: thank you, mrs. thompson. welcome, class of 2011.
speaker2: i wasn't really sure what i wanted to talk about today. mrs. thompson said it might be good to talk about growing up and getting older and stuff. so i guess i'll talk about that.
speaker2: i grew up a lot this year, i think. i used to think that growing up meant really growing. like getting taller and bigger. but now i think that growing up just makes you smaller. your dreams get smaller, and what you want gets smaller... i grew an inch and a half this year, but i feel a lot smaller.
speaker2: i was in love. and i know that makes parents laugh because i'm only thirteen but whatever, i was.

speaker1: i believed that there was one true love for everyone, and if you fought for that person, your one true love would always work out. but that's not how it works. it sounded good when i was younger, but... it's just not how it works. there's no such thing as one true love for everyo-- 
speaker2: stop!
speaker1: dad?
speaker2: hi. hi, everyone.
speaker2: may i have a word with my son? it'll just take a second.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i don't know. what are you doing?
speaker1: i was wrong, dad. there's no such thing as -- cal turns toward the crowd, announces:

speaker1: in fairness, i don't know where he was going but i think we can all agree it was heading in a pretty depressing direction. and i basically wrote it for him. i mean, i didn't literally write it but i sure as influenced it, and the kid's already a spitting image of his mother and i'll be if this is what he's going to get from me. 
speaker1: my son -- not him, my actual son -- he believes in grand romantic gestures. he believes that people have soulmates. and we always want to tell our thirteen-year- olds that they're wrong, that `one day you'll understand, young man.' but maybe it should be the other way around.
speaker1: i met my soulmate when i was fifteen years old. our first date, we went for ice cream. after, my dad started teasing me about my `first date' the way dads do. and i told him: `stop making a big deal, dad. i'm going to go on lots of dates with plenty of girls.' that was the first time i ever lied to my father.

speaker1: i met my soulmate when i was fifteen years old. and i have loved her with everything i have for every minute, of every day, ever since she let me buy her that first mint chip ice cream. i have loved her through the birth of our three perfect children, and i have loved her even as i've hated her -- only married couples can truly understand that one. and i don't know what will wind up happening with us -- i don't, robbie, i'm sorry i can't give you that -- but i promise you this: i will never stop trying. when you find `the one' you never give up trying... and i love you, my amazing boy, for reminding me of that. robbie hugs his father as the crowd reacts. cal kisses 
speaker2: i still love you, jessica! i've loved you since the first time you changed my sister's diaper! i've loved you since...

speaker1: hi, nanna. 
speaker2: daddy.
speaker1: my perfect girl.

speaker1: i already ordered a gun. i'm not kidding. i ordered a colt .45 on a shady internet site, i can show you the receipt. if you hurt her, i am prepared to shoot you in the face. 
speaker2: cal, i'm not going to --
speaker1: shut up, jacob.
speaker1: wow. i like that.
speaker1: is that a new shirt?
speaker2: hannah took me to the gap. it's actually not as bad as i thought.
speaker1: seriously?
speaker2: of course not, cal. it's the gap. i got this at nordstrom's.
speaker3: who approaches jessica.
speaker4: it was nice of you to come.
speaker5: i wouldn't have missed it.
speaker4: so, how are things with your dad?

speaker1: strained. i took a summer internship up at stanford, gonna head up there early. figure it can't hurt to get out of his line of sight for a while. 
speaker2: yeah, probably a good idea.
speaker2: you were a good baby-sitter, jessica. i'm sorry if i made you uncomfortable.
speaker1: wait: i thought you weren't giving up.
speaker2: i'm not. but i figure: you like my dad, and one day i'll look like my dad, so i'll just come for you then.
speaker1: it's a good plan.
speaker1: until then: a little graduation gift. to help get you through high school.
speaker1: you take care, robbie.
speaker3: you okay, buddy?

speaker1: i am now, dad. i am now. 
speaker2: i'm terrified of what's going to become of him once he hits puberty.
speaker3: we might have to lock him up.
speaker2: you gave a good eighth grade graduation speech.
speaker3: i've been working on it for thirty years, so...
speaker2: do you think we can ever come back from all this, cal?
speaker3: i don't know. i'd like to try though. i know i'd like to try.
speaker2: things are just so messed up. and it's been such a strange year. i've been in such a strange place. and we have all these problems, so many problems i've lost count, but at the end of the day, i mean, the only thing i know -- she stops herself, emotional. then, simply:
speaker2: i am just so glad you took me for that ice cream.

speaker1: it was rocky road by the way. 
speaker2: no!

