speaker1: . open your eyes... 
speaker2: well, i suppose the empty street meant loneliness.
speaker3: you're a shrink. you've got to do better than that.
speaker2: i'm a doctor. let's not stereotype each other. not all rich kids are soul-less, and not all psychologists care about dreams. the question is how you

speaker1: got here, and why you've been charged. 
speaker2: what do you want to know? i was about to turn 33. i ran three magazines, and a world-wide publishing house. on most days i actually fooled myself into believing it would last forever.

speaker1: where you going so early? 
speaker2: hey, don't record any more messages on my alarm--clock, okay?
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i'll think we're married or something.
speaker1: don't you ever say that word. or i'll never come over here and bring you chicken soup and your brains out again.

speaker1: how's your cold? 
speaker2: still there. how's yours?
speaker1: i guess you took my mind off it.
speaker2: reyna, it's julianna. i missed my audition. i lost my head. listen, i have to go. i'm with david.

speaker1: help yourself to whatever you want. set the alarm, maria will clean up. lock up when you go. 
speaker2: bye "honey!"
speaker1: bye "honey!" i'll call you later.
speaker2: when? when?
speaker1: soon!

speaker1: did you reserve the court? 
speaker2: easy. i can't handle heavy conversation at this ungodly hour.
speaker1: i'm sorry to do this early. i gotta be done by 10.
speaker3: you're not going to make the 8:45, are you?
speaker1: how did you find me?
speaker4: david aames, you have to check the colors of the letters for the new issue of rise.
speaker1: what are the colors?
speaker4: yellow-and-red... or the traditional white.

speaker1: let, me think about it. 
speaker2: david, please. don't be late for the ten o'clock with the board.
speaker1: okay, but. don't tell anybody where i am i don't care if calls.
speaker3: can't you just get rid of that board?
speaker1: the seven dwarves? no.
speaker3: those people drive you nuts.
speaker1: and that was the desire of my father, who hired them.
speaker3: you julie gianni again, didn't you?

speaker1: i know someone was there when i called. you had that tone. oh, no man, i've got a cold. i'm hanging in tonight. 
speaker2: i had a cold. i was alone.
speaker1: fine. you can do whatever you want with your life -
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: -- but one day you'll know what love truly is. it's the sour and the sweet. and i know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet. 
speaker2: julie gi.anni is a friend. sometimes we sleep together.
speaker2: what --
speaker1: my dream girl... julie gianni... is your... buddy.
speaker2: what do you want to listen to?
speaker1: slow down, man.
speaker2: what have we got here - barcelona, looper... radiohead?
speaker1: look out! look out!
speaker1: 
speaker2: we almost died.

speaker1: i know. my own death was right there in front of me, and you know what happened? your life flashed before my eyes. 
speaker2: how was it?
speaker1: almost worth dying for.

speaker1: the art department needs a decision on the colors. yellow- and- red, or white? and the board is you're late. 
speaker2: you changed your hair.
speaker3: did he mean the yellow-and-red or the white?
speaker1: they're all waiting for you. and david - opinions are expected.

speaker1: do you dream about the board, david? the seven dwarves, as you call them? 
speaker2: sneezy, bashful, sleepy, happy, doc, dopey, and of course, grumpy.
speaker3: how was aspen?
speaker2: good. now i want answers, and i want them now. how's it going?
speaker4: they still look at me like i was still eleven years old.

speaker1: it's a nightmare either way. 
speaker2: is that how do you explain what's happened to you?
speaker1: what --
speaker2: what happened to your face?
speaker1: i'm not talking to you anymore.
speaker2: and you don't want to show me your face.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: do you know why you're here?
speaker1: the conversation, the coffee --
speaker2: david - the part where we parry and joust, and get to know each other bit-by-bit... we're going to have to skip it. you've been charged with murder. in four weeks, a judge will determine your fate based on what i write. you will talk to me --
speaker1: there is no murder! it didn't happen! i don't have to talk to anybody!

speaker1: you want me to help - 
speaker2: get the away from me.
speaker1: take it easy, sunshine.
speaker2: get the away from me.
speaker1: take it easy, face. your whole story is full of holes!
speaker3: stop! please leave. right now.
speaker1: i'm gonna get you, daddy's boy little freak.
speaker2: my parents are dead, you
speaker4: enough!
speaker4: is it true?
speaker2: good cop... bad cop.
speaker4: that you're a daddy's boy?
speaker2: primer on david aames, senior. my father was not built for the 21st century. he never ate at

speaker1: mcdonald's, not once, and never watched television. yet his biggest magazine is still tv digest. he and my mother threw the grandest parties of the literary world. he ballooned, jumped from planes, sought adventure... his autobiography is the manual for every cutthroat publisher in new york. it's called defending the kingdom. 
speaker2: i've read it. page 127. "david junior was a delight as a child." did i miss something here? is that all he wrote about you?
speaker3: i don't think he ever got over the fact that i was terrified of heights. and when he and my mother were run over by a drunken teenager on new year's eve, ten years ago...
speaker3: he left the keys to the kingdom to me... 51% control, 49% going to a group of seven board members who all thought they were first in line.
speaker2: and you believe the board, the seven dwarves, put you here to take control of your company.
speaker3: what do you care?
speaker2: we're just talking. and tonight's wednesday night, and i go to black angus for dinner with my daughters on wednesday nights, so i'll have to leave soon. you understand that our time is limited, don't you?

speaker1: if i talk, you'll just think i'm crazy. 
speaker2: with all the respect i can offer a man wearing a latex mask and spouting conspiracy theories, david, trust me - you've crossed that bridge.
speaker1: fine. enjoy your dinner.
speaker2: there are five basic emotions in life. tell me. what emotion gripped... him... before he entered that cell? was it guilt?
speaker2: hate? shame?
speaker2: revenge...
speaker2: love?
speaker2: i'm completely on the wrong track, aren't i?

speaker1: who needs ice? 
speaker2: catching the attention of a model.
speaker3: david! happy birthday.
speaker1: you have the greatest taste in shoes i've ever seen. bar none. anywhere.
speaker4: the old place sure looks more crowded with people in it.
speaker1: emma, do you know lynette?
speaker4: no, but i shudder to think what. we might have in common.
speaker5: the living stereo system is online and looking great. it's an

speaker1: amazing prototype. they'd love an article on it if you like it... 
speaker2: and happy birthday, sir.
speaker3: hey man. happy birthday and all the usual people say to each other. how you doing?
speaker4: livin' the dream, baby. livin' the dream.
speaker3: meet david aames.
speaker4: and to what do i owe this pleasure, the pleasure of --
speaker5: -- the pleasure of sofia. serrano.
speaker3: we met today at the library, if you can believe that --
speaker5: i'm sorry about my coat. it's too big for your closet.
speaker3: - we were both pretending to be intellectuals.
speaker4: no no, i think it's amazing. i love your coat.

speaker1: i overdressed. i mean i underdressed. 
speaker2: i'll just continue like you're both actually listening to me.
speaker1: do you have another room to put it in?
speaker2: i have ceased to exist.
speaker3: well, madison square garden is nearby, it might fit there.
speaker1: happy birthday.
speaker2: we picked it out together.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: we picked it out together. we...
speaker1: welcome.
speaker2: stop flirting and open it.
speaker3: okay.
speaker2: let's get a drink.

speaker1: okay. 
speaker2: i'll leave this upstairs.

speaker1: hey tommy. 
speaker2: hey. listen to me. don't blow me off. i'm all packed, i'm going back to london and i understand. you put me up for that other attorney's job, so you didn't have to fire me. a classy move, and your father would have done the same ---
speaker1: it's okay, tommy --
speaker2: i became incompetent. is there anything more unbecoming than an aging mascot? i cared about your father. i lived and breathed for him. but these guys, the board, they think you're stupid. a corporate hazard, a rogue.

speaker1: but they're going to find a way to get you out. they're lined up for your office - 
speaker1: -- your job. your life. your position. they are working day and night. to cheat you out of your 51% vote. and they are going to sell this tradition, this tradition of words, so they can eat at a better cafeteria. and what they don't know is this - - people will read again.
speaker2: i got it.
speaker1: they even have a nickname for you behind your back.
speaker1: citizen dildo.
speaker1: now you've got great instincts. but i say this with complete love. claim your life... learn to be an asshole... don't be -

speaker1: two's enough - 
speaker2: don ' t be- okay. forgive me. i still believe in this family. even if it's only you.
speaker1: get tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. set up a meeting with the other attorneys. i'm going to be in early tomorrow -- -- earlier than usual.

speaker1: hello handsome. 
speaker1: i've come to wish you happy birthday.
speaker2: i didn't invite you, julie.
speaker1: yeah, that was a little weird -
speaker2: but that's how it works with parties. you have to be invited.
speaker1: i'm mad at you, you we made love four times the other night.

speaker1: is that good? 
speaker2: two is good. three is very good.
speaker1: four is pretty good?
speaker2: no, four is... four is... just hold me.
speaker1: four is what?
speaker2: hold me, and then i'll leave, and you can go talk to that cute brunette.
speaker1: four is what?
speaker2: i don't want to meet your fancy friends. i knew 'em all back when i was fancy too.
speaker1: four is what?
speaker2: she looks like a moth, david.
speaker1: a moth?
speaker2: sometimes i worry about one of these clever girls in a big silly coat who'll play you in just the right way, and i'll lose my friend. and there'll be no more chicken soup parties for you and me.

speaker1: so this is what's become of rock and roll. a smashed guitar behind a glass case displayed on some rich guy's wall. 
speaker2: it was a gift, actually.
speaker1: i like it.
speaker2: whoa, whoa, whoa.
speaker1: - how did you get all this stuff, this apartment, this life -
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: how about if you help me? unless i'm horning in here.
speaker1: you are, but the food's good.

speaker1: see, i've got a little problem. 
speaker2: it doesn't. sound life-threatening.
speaker1: i need a cover. i need for you to pretend we're having a scintillating conversation. and you're wildly entertained. i know it's tough.
speaker2: i'll improvise -
speaker1: she's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
speaker2: red dress, strappy shoes?
speaker1: yes_
speaker2: -- wow, she's really staring at you.
speaker1: 
speaker2: and she seems to be growing...
speaker1: hmm.
speaker2: i think she's the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.

speaker1: you have another apartment? 
speaker2: sort of a day office. come on -
speaker1: i'm not going in there.
speaker2: well i am. goodnight.
speaker1: i hear her coming.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: who did these paintings? 
speaker2: this is joni mitchell. this one is monet. and this one is done by me. it is a snowboard.
speaker1: well, two of them are geniuses.
speaker2: it's the real thing. his paintbrush painted that vanilla sky. his canvas. it. was my mother's.

speaker1: you know what i think? you're either a very good actress or you really do sort of like me. 
speaker2: i am an actress.
speaker1: there's probably not too much you aren't great at.
speaker2: are you about to compliment, my phone voice?
speaker1: it's pretty good, you know -
speaker2: oh, i'd only disappoint, you. see - i'm not. qualified. i can spell.

speaker1: i'm surprised you're available. 
speaker2: i'm surprised you're surprised.
speaker1: i can't keep this banter going.
speaker2: me neither.
speaker3: i caught you.
speaker2: brian! come in here!
speaker1: what's going on --
speaker3: your friends are fun and i'm drunk.
speaker1: julie gianni is stalking me.
speaker2: she looked dangerous.
speaker3: nobody stalks me. so i drink.
speaker1: well, we're out of drinks up here.
speaker3: here, finish my jack and coke.
speaker1: these stupid glasses -
speaker3: no, it's the stupid guy holding it.

speaker1: don't worry. i'll get. us all something. jacks and cokes? 
speaker2: i better hit it. i drank too much and i didn't eat.
speaker3: don't be stupid. the party's just starting.
speaker2: for you it is.
speaker3: you can't go. you're my guest of honor.
speaker2: you, david. you're paying me to write my novel, so you own me.
speaker3: i don't own you. you're brilliant, you're good-looking, you're handsome.
speaker2: but why'd you have to hit on sofia?
speaker3: no one's hitting on sofia.
speaker2: fine. whatever you say. i'm crazy, i'm blind.
speaker3: no, you're not blind. you're just drinking jack daniels. and when you drink jack, you start. in with that frank sinatra, "she shot. me down," gimme a cigarette, king of sad thing...
speaker2: that. i do. gimme a cigarette.

speaker1: i'll find one. 
speaker2: but wait. you're rich and women love you and i'm from ohio and i'm drunk. can i tell you the truth?
speaker1: everyone does.
speaker2: i dig her. and i've never said this to you before, about any girl. but she could be... could be could be could be... the girl of my dreams.
speaker1: you're not from ohio.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: but if she tip our friendship - she can go to hell. i won't allow it! we are bros.
speaker1: i feel the same way.
speaker2: sure you do.
speaker3: where you going?
speaker2: i am frank. and frank must go.
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: i good you bid evening.
speaker3: hang on, i'll go with you.

speaker1: stay, baby. 
speaker2: i'll give you a lift home later.
speaker3: no, i have to work tomorrow.
speaker1: you're in great. hands. i'm just humoring myself that my opinion matters.
speaker1: you will never know the exquisite pain of the guy who goes home alone. because without. the bitter, baby, the sweet ain't as sweet. have a good time.
speaker2: the sweet and sour speech again.

speaker1: hey paulo! 
speaker2: i'm glad he protects you. this is a lethal canine.
speaker1: i love living here. and i refuse to clean up!
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: i've got to work around the clock to keep this place.
speaker2: so you're really a dancer, huh?
speaker1: for 14 years. but i don't dance like you dance.

speaker1: do you want something to drink? 
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: i like your life. 
speaker2: well, it's mine and you can't have it.
speaker1: i do not want to know the story behind this photo. who's sergio?
speaker2: it's a nickname.
speaker1: your nickname is sergio?
speaker2: it's a long story, and we don't know each other.
speaker1: so many secrets.
speaker2: that's because i'm really an arms dealer.
speaker1: i've never known an arms dealer.
speaker2: you do now. what about you? what's your nickname?
speaker1: citizen dildo.

speaker1: you're not staying over. 
speaker2: never run a company. stay an artist. stay an arms dealer.
speaker1: oh please. somehow, i can't play the violin for you. although. it must be hard controlling all those people's lives. everyone at that party is connected to you for survival in some way, it seems.
speaker1: ever been married?
speaker2: no. ever accept any of your 12,000 proposals?
speaker1: 12,008.no.
speaker2: and you moved to new york. to dance and paint and act and deal arms.
speaker1: right. do you want to hear jeff buckley... or vikki carr?
speaker2: jeff buckley... or vikki carr? both - simultaneously.
speaker1: everyone said "don't go to new york." but i just think good

speaker1: things will happen if you're a good person with a good attitude. doncha think? 
speaker2: you think i'm naive.
speaker3: no. i really don't.
speaker3: i dug her completely. somehow, i had found the last semi-guileless girl in new york city.
speaker2: i have to get to sleep. truthfully -- i'm also working mornings as a dental assistant.
speaker3: boy, am i going to the wrong dentist.
speaker4: and you didn't immediately want to sleep with her?
speaker3: well you know - i'm a pleasure delayer.
speaker4: how does that work?
speaker3: pleasure delaying... you don't know? you keep the relationship casual until the absolute breaking point.and then, one night, or afternoon, or morning... it could be months from now... oh, you know how it works -

speaker1: - actually no i don't. i've been married for twenty-two years. 
speaker2: ah, you've got dinner with your daughters.
speaker1: that's right. i do.
speaker2: back then i had intricate systems with women you wouldn't believe.
speaker1: like... what...
speaker2: hey doc. don't get all melancholy over the thirty seconds you were single a long time ago.
speaker1: that's what you think i'm doing?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: well, you may have a point. let's continue. time is not our friend.

speaker1: just our shortcomings. that's all we're allowed to draw. 
speaker2: i've never drawn such a true likeness before.
speaker1: mine's finished.
speaker2: already? hang on. okay - done.
speaker1: that's how you see me?
speaker2: maybe i didn't add enough money --
speaker1: no. it's wonderful. it's something you'd see on the wall of a steak-house in hell, but it's wonderful. sign it.
speaker2: let's see yours.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: wow. i feel bad. you said to draw a caricature.
speaker1: i know. i couldn't. i saw you like that.

speaker1: well, it's very good. 
speaker2: i'll sell it to you.
speaker1: you monster. how much for?
speaker2: one kiss.
speaker2: that smile is gonna be the end of me.
speaker1: and what happens when your friend calls you tomorrow?
speaker2: he only met you a few hours before me. he would do the same.
speaker1: i see that friendship is important to you.
speaker2: it is. but as his best friend, i also know that he's trying to finish a novel about inadequacy and rejection. so the longer i stay, the better it is for his career.
speaker1: your career is one i'd worry about.
speaker1: i'm sorry -
speaker2: no, no. you're more right then you even know. i used to be one of those guys who was just

speaker1: snowboarding through his life, with no focus whatsoever. 
speaker2: when did you change?
speaker3: about five minutes ago.
speaker2: every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around.

speaker1: and to those who think that you're a charlatan? 
speaker2: i understand. the perception of a head frozen somewhere waiting for reanimation - it sounds like science fiction.
speaker3: what are you watching?
speaker4: it's the greatest show... it's called "sofia."

speaker1: i've seen this thirty times. 
speaker2: we did a story on this guy. he owns half of arizona.
speaker1: is he a fraud?
speaker2: how would you ever know?
speaker1: good point.
speaker3: can you unfreeze a human life?
speaker4: take the case of benny the dog. benny is a dog who was frozen for three months, and thawed out to live a normal life.
speaker1: oh, well that's comforting. it's safe for benny. i'm in!
speaker1: we better watch out.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: i left my number on your fridge.
speaker1: come here, i want to tell you a secret.

speaker1: i meant that to be your forehead. 
speaker2: thank you for the inspiration. i will now attempt to run my company, showing compassion for the seething throng of my partners who root quietly for me to fail.
speaker2: for things you don't even know - thank you. i'm going to go to work. i have a company to run.
speaker1: pleasure delayer.

speaker1: david aames. 
speaker2: julie gianni. you're following me.
speaker1: only a little. i wanted to finish what we were talking about.

speaker1: and _- 
speaker2: how'd it work out with our moth girl? did she turn into a butterfly for you?
speaker1: yes she did.
speaker3: but i can see from your walk that you didn't sleep with her.
speaker3: let me see if i can guess. you haven't slept with her because... it's more fun when you can draw it out. just isn't as good if the woman hasn't told all her friends she'd never sleep with you.
speaker1: you're right on the money, julie.
speaker3: she must be exhausted from trying to be witty for you all night long.
speaker1: hey, julie.
speaker2: sorry. you're just never there for your friends until they've already given up on you.
speaker1: i'm not blowing you off! i just want to be alone for a little bit. trust me - i have a lot of things i gotta take care of. if we're friends, which we are, you'll understand.
speaker3: i'm sorry i got weird. i missed an audition and i just felt bad

speaker1: you didn't invite me to your party. 
speaker2: do you want to make it up to me? i won't tell a soul.

speaker1: would you do a story about me if i made a cd? 
speaker2: sure i would -
speaker1: do you like my music?
speaker2: it's vivid.
speaker1: if i weren't me, i would buy a cd by me.
speaker2: well, you know, if you can reach one person.
speaker1: what is happiness to you, david?
speaker2: what is happiness?
speaker1: for me, this is happiness. being with you.

speaker1: one thing bothers me. why did you tell brian i was your fuck-buddy? 
speaker2: i didn't tell him that. i didn't say that.
speaker3: when did you stop caring?
speaker2: about what --
speaker3: about the consequences of the promises you made.
speaker2: promises - i thought we had an understanding.
speaker3: do you know how hard it is to pretend to be your "buddy?" i love you, david. you me four times in one night. you have been inside me and i have swallowed your come. that means something.
speaker2: julie...
speaker3: four times, david! that means something. four times.
speaker2: stop the car!
speaker3: twenty-four hours a day i live with the aching possibility that you might call me to do something.

speaker1: take me to your house. we'll talk this out. i want to see where you live. i want you to stop the car, julie. i want you to stop the car! 
speaker2: don't you know, david? every time you sleep with someone... your body makes a promise whether you do or not?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: you're amazing. hello.
speaker1: did you get to work alright?

speaker1: yeah, well, actually... i had a horrible dream. 
speaker2: you dreamed you'd never see me again.
speaker1: i left your house. i went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me.
speaker2: julie.
speaker1: yes. she followed me down the street. she wanted to talk, and i had that buzz... from you and me, and i think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me... and, you know, i got inside. and she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car.
speaker2: i thought you were going straight to work.
speaker1: but i survive! i survive with my arm and my face reconstructed. and what's worse i couldn't wake up.
speaker2: how was your house after the party?
speaker1: what party? a party?
speaker2: the party. remember? red dress... strappy shoes... i spilled something on your shirt... sweet and sour... and the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.

speaker1: i try to tell myself what to dream. i try to dream that i'm flying, something freeing. it never works. 
speaker2: is that the only thing that you dream?

speaker1: i don't... i don't remember. 
speaker2: do you dream about the car accident?

speaker1: what happened next? 
speaker2: what really happened? what, didn't you read the file? i was out for three-and--a-half weeks. my face and arm were shattered. my jaw was broken in four places. no surgery could be performed because of the coma. you can't feel the darkness, or the numbness, you can't even feel.

speaker1: and then... i came back to life. just like that dog, benny. benny the dog. 
speaker2: benny. benny the dog.
speaker1: except my life was no longer normal. there were blinding migranes now...
speaker1: . nerve damage. why? this is how big business operates. a random accident. a "lifestyle mishap?" they are not coincidences. how do you think air-tight contracts are broken?
speaker2: i'm from ohio - we don't have power upheavals.

speaker1: david david david. i don't want to worry you, i'm holding them off. but we've got a situation here. the by-laws of the board protect your 51% vote only if you're mentally acute. now i'm sorry that poor girl died, but you've given the board a real gift with your mishap. they'd like to declare you "incapacitated." but you are back, and you sound good to me -ã¢â€â¢ so let's fight the fuckers._. and have a full recovery. and maybe you should let people see you. i mean, the last time we were together you were in a coma and you were very rude to me. you didn't say a word. 
speaker2: yes, well, the rumors of my death have been mildly exaggerated.
speaker2: who could i trust? the ants were taking over the ant-hill. who could i trust?

speaker1: the cranial structure was based on thirty pins fastened by small panels and bits of bone from the mandible... and it seems the cartilage grafts have maintained your cheek structure. unfortunately, because you were in a coma, immediate plastic surgery was impossible. 
speaker2: doctors. their power is in jargon. so you study up...
speaker2: is that the procedure for all bilateral periorbital hematomas in a lefort iii fracture of a comatose patient?
speaker1: in a lefort iii - absolutely. the potential for sub-cranial brain damage was too great.
speaker2: . you do your best.
speaker2: and beyond the cheek grafts, dr.

speaker1: with any kind of aluminum which could ionize and cause that pressure in my head? because i'm ready for another operation. 
speaker2: three other doctors in the room listening.
speaker3: yes, we are working on processes. but it... you're specifically not at the stage where we can experiment --
speaker4: experiment. use me.
speaker3: the headaches will go away -
speaker4: these are more than headaches. this is like a steel plate slicing through my every thought.
speaker3: we're not cowboys. we can't, just wing it.
speaker4: because i can't think straight most of the time.
speaker3: we can increase your medication.
speaker4: yes. medication.
speaker3: and there are things we'll continue to investigate. but there are so many others who've not been able to benefit aesthetically from plastic surgery as you have --
speaker4: this isn't about vanity, dr. pomeranz! this isn't about vanity. this is about functioning in the world.

speaker1: it is my job to be out there functioning. i've got the money, and i'll pay any amount. invent something. play jazz. you say you're the best face man in new york city. prove it. 
speaker2: we could do something about your arm --
speaker3: my arm!
speaker4: nobody here takes your feelings for granted. we did prepare something for you, based on the preliminary examination.
speaker3: tell me. bring it on.
speaker4: it's sometimes useful in the early stages of rejection. it's a facial prosthetic. it was two weeks in the making.
speaker3: a facial prosthetic.
speaker4: the aesthetic replacement does work. emotionally, and actually.
speaker2: and the plastic in the aesthetic shield also filters out abusive rays, and assists in the regeneration of cells.
speaker3: so it's an aesthetic regenerative shield.

speaker1: that's correct. exactly. 
speaker2: and the ergonomics of the plate- barrier allows it to reflexively interact with the movements of your own face.
speaker3: i see --
speaker1: it's a helpful unit.
speaker3: good. because for a minute there i thought we were talking about a mask!
speaker1: it's only a mask if you treat it that way.
speaker3: no it's great. this completely takes care of halloween. but what about the other 364 days of the year?

speaker1: i attended the monthly board meeting of the seven dwarves by video hook-up. oh, baby. this was war. 
speaker1: because nobody's buying books let's invest... my father was an adventurer.

speaker1: sofiaaaaaaaaaaa. serrano. 
speaker1: i grew stronger in ways i had never known before. and on december 5th... my planes filled the sky... the return of david aames, jr. citizen dildo.

speaker1: you won't believe this... but this is me smiling. 
speaker2: it's been a long time. i tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me.
speaker1: i didn't want to see me, okay. but then i woke up today and finally, a good hair day.

speaker1: you want to go out, you want to do something? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: let's go out and do something.
speaker1: this weekend. i'll cancel an operation or two. we'll have fun. because i am all about fun.

speaker1: i have so many questions. to start off, tell us all just what has happened to benny. what's benny been through? 
speaker2: benny fell into the water near our home, and was frozen in the skykomish river. and i went fishing, thinking he'd gone three months earlier', and there he was in a block of ice, and...

speaker1: he is thawed out, right? 
speaker2: hey listen, it's david. i'm back in your life. i saw you earlier tonight. i was just watching our old friend benny the dog on... on conan... and i thought of you. whatever. i loved seeing you today. so i'll see you soon. you're a great dancer!

speaker1: hi! 
speaker2: hey.
speaker3: what are you drinking?
speaker1: nothing.

speaker1: i am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. you want one? 
speaker2: is there any other kind?
speaker1: i'll go get us some -
speaker3: where's the bathroom?
speaker1: behind... over by the place next to the door by the chick... i mean, girl who looks like bjork.
speaker2: you look good, man. how's your book?
speaker1: take it off.
speaker2: i can't. it's a facial shield. it's an antiseptic prosthesis to stop infections. these doctors.
speaker1: take off the mask! it's freaking me out.
speaker2: i can't. it's my face. this is my face.
speaker1: oh no. trust me. it's a little different.
speaker2: hey, if you're embarrassed, just go. nobody asked you to chaperone

speaker1: sofia asked me. 
speaker2: she didn't want to be alone with me? that's because i think i'm being pretty cool about the whole thing.
speaker1: talk to a shrink! or you can call me sometime, instead of hiding in your apartment. don't take it out on a girl you only met once.
speaker2: did she say that? i met her "once?" did she say i met her "once?" brian looks away. he's said too much.
speaker1: cut it out. i miss the old you. we all miss the old you. because the new guy is
speaker1: oh. man. wait. that came out wrong. i love you - period. how's your arm, man? david shakes his head, moves toward the bar.
speaker2: you, brian. how about no more sympathy? how about if that's the deal we make with each other? okay?
speaker2: gimme a budweiser and a shot of tequila.

speaker1: what kind of tequila? 
speaker2: what did you say to me?
speaker1: i said - what. kind. of.
speaker2: why don't you ask me to my face,
speaker2: patron. if you have it.

speaker1: another shot, another bud. 
speaker2: no. this is on the house.
speaker1: why -
speaker2: it just is.
speaker1: patron!

speaker1: hello again. 
speaker2: hello again.
speaker1: idea. let's start all over.
speaker1: how about if you help me? unless i'm horning in here - you are. but the food is good.
speaker1: see, i've got a little problem. i've got a stalker. it doesn't sound life-threatening. i need a cover. i need for you to pretend we're having a

speaker1: scintillating conversation and you're wildly entertained. i know it's tough. i'll improvise. 
speaker2: i don't talk like that.
speaker3: she's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
speaker2: red dress, strappy shoes?
speaker3: that's right!
speaker3: i think she' s the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.
speaker2: david --
speaker3: are you okay?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: what's wrong? is it me?
speaker2: i'll tell you later.
speaker3: come on. tell me now. something's wrong. tell me everything. let's talk about it right now.

speaker1: i'll tell you in another life... when we are both cats. 
speaker2: i don't believe you just said that. that. is the best thing i've ever heard. that is hilarious. that just killed me. the way you said that. see - that's what i love about you. "i'll tell you in another life when we are both cats."

speaker1: well, this is where i leave you. 
speaker2: wait. i'll walk you to your door.
speaker1: no, i live just around the corner.
speaker2: i've got my bike here.
speaker1: i'd rather walk.
speaker3: don't be a drag. can't you see she wants to go on her own?
speaker2: shut up, you're drunk.
speaker3: i may be an but i'm not drunk.

speaker1: seriously, i don't need you to walk me home. thank you. 
speaker2: okay then. so. we'll call you.
speaker1: great. we'll go catch a movie or something.
speaker1: so. we'll meet up soon.
speaker3: we'll meet up soon.
speaker3: we'll call you again to go out with me!
speaker2: we'll call you.
speaker2: well, it's been a real blast, david. i bid you good evening.
speaker3: where you going?
speaker2: my bike. it's back over there. we'll hang soon. bring your mask if you want. i'm getting used to it.
speaker3: wait a minute.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: i don't know. 
speaker2: you drank a little too much. call me tomorrow if you want.
speaker1: tomorrow i'll wish i was dead.
speaker2: no you won't. you just need to sleep.
speaker1: hey!
speaker2: what!
speaker1: what did you say to julie gianni the night of the accident?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you told her she was a "fuck buddy."
speaker2: never.
speaker1: and she was a little more than about it.
speaker2: have you been harboring this all along? i never talked to her.
speaker1: whatever. i mean - who am i, if i can't. be the one who tells you you're not ugly? aw, give me a courtesy laugh. come on!

speaker1: brian!! i'm so up. i'm just so up! 
speaker1: we're best friends! we're bros!
speaker1: come on, man, we're bros.

speaker1: this is a cheap ploy for sympathy. 
speaker2: boo!
speaker3: no, i'm okay -
speaker4: sofia examines him with a look of concern and
speaker5: and it worked. get up.
speaker3: ugh -
speaker5: that's right. i agree. ugh.
speaker3: this is a joke.
speaker5: david. i'm not going to lie to you. i liked the way you looked. but if you don't pull it together, i'll forget the other guy. you know that. other guy - you?
speaker3: i'm still that guy. i'm still that guy. sofia speaks with rapid-fire conviction, as if she might change her mind if she thought about it too much.
speaker5: i don't. have a mother-savior bone in my body. it's not about that.

speaker1: turns out to be a big mistake, i do have the ability to fall out of love with you - - like that. 
speaker2: i am still that guy.
speaker3: shut up.
speaker2: we created our own world together.
speaker2: where's brian?
speaker3: he went with you, didn't he?
speaker2: i thought you guys hooked up.
speaker3: i wish you hadn't gotten in the car with that girl.
speaker2: sofia... i'm...
speaker3: your eyes apologized better. come on.

speaker1: holy this is going to change my life in a zillion different ways... i must be nuts. 
speaker2: - and we were quite a pair. her believing in me. me believing that i deserved it.

speaker1: i see you haven't been wasting your time. do you ever draw anything else? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did you sleep last night.?
speaker2: no. i did not sleep.
speaker1: i've got to leave early today, so you'll have to be brief. now. what can you tell me about the name "ellie?"

speaker1: ellie? 
speaker2: is that a girl you knew? a girl you were in love with?
speaker1: i've only been in love once.
speaker2: apparently, you kept repeating it last night. you did sleep, david, and your advisor said you cried out, you had a nightmare.
speaker1: everything is a nightmare --
speaker2: you cried out for "ellie," david.
speaker1: no... no...
speaker2: dig deep, david. dig deep. you cried out for ellie. what do you remember about ellie? show me your face, david. help me. open the door. david rises and goes to the prison window. angle on mccabe
speaker2: it's true you had an accident. it's true you were disfigured, but not anymore. do you remember?! they did fix your face. take off that mask, david. you'll see your face is perfect under there.
speaker1: i never trusted the doctors. what happened next was surreal. that same arrogant bastard, dr.

speaker1: he'd discovered a new form of reconstructive surgery, with the help of a doctor from berlin. 
speaker2: hello.

speaker1: what if gawd was one of ussssss... " 
speaker1: the odds, they said, were one in three that the headaches could be reduced by 50% and facial tissue could be regenerated.

speaker1: i couldn't tell you what they did. it seemed like science fiction to me. 
speaker2: he's going to be one good-looking guy when i'm done.
speaker1: obviously, i was suspicious.

speaker1: suspicious of whom? of what? 
speaker2: once you've been driven off a bridge at 80 miles an hour, somehow you don't invite happiness in without a full body search.
speaker1: well, at the risk of boring you, i can present the alternate argument. i once knew a guy who was a real loner. and one day he woke up at 40, with two daughters who lit his life up with purpose. suddenly he goes to endless school plays, he gets home at 9:20 for the evening discussion, and he has the time of his life. his favorite beatle was once john, and now it's paul.

speaker1: i always liked... george. 
speaker2: it all depends on the individual, doesn't it? tell me. what's happiness for you?

speaker1: how about another question - 
speaker2: well, you won't show me your face. so back to the time-line. hurry.

speaker1: you've got to take the plates off, david. 
speaker2: i don't want to know what's under here.
speaker1: it's going to be fine, you'll see.
speaker2: i already called pomeranz and switched it to wednesday.
speaker1: i hope that shrew at the front desk gave you about it.
speaker2: i'll go in the morning. the car'll be fixed.

speaker1: good, because i know that the problem wouldn't be you delaying something you were dreading. 
speaker2: couldn't be that.
speaker1: nooooo, it couldn't be that.
speaker1: i mean, i agree, it's very important to have...
speaker1: . the right car...
speaker1: . to take you where you want to go... 24 hours a day...
speaker2: how bad is it?
speaker1: well, your ears are in the right place. and the rest of it is... not too bad at all.

speaker1: do you love me? i mean, really love me... because if you don't, i'll just... have to kill you. 
speaker2: in my next life i want to come back as this mole -

speaker1: - seriously, this mole. i mean, you'll have to wear bikini tops to work, or loose-fitting shirts so i can breathe, but - 
speaker2: i love you. i love you. i love you.
speaker3: - i could live right there.
speaker2: is this a dream?
speaker3: oh absolutely.

speaker1: what, did she say? 
speaker2: i have no idea.

speaker1: how's things, brian? 
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: how's things, brian?
speaker2: don't flatter yourself. i'm fine. besides - sofia is great, but by no means one-of--a-kind. she was a proximity infatuation.
speaker2: and don't use that, it's mine.
speaker1: where'd you get the camera?
speaker2: i'm into things... you have no idea.
speaker1: well, as long as you're okay.
speaker2: and anyway, we're friends, aren't we?
speaker1: always.

speaker1: hey what's up with your face? there's a seam opening or something! 
speaker2: what - what are you talking about?
speaker2: you asshole!

speaker1: was i snoring? 
speaker2: no, i think it was me. thirsty, that's all.
speaker1: i'm dreaming about you. mmmmmmm.

speaker1: baby, what's wrong? 
speaker2: where. is. she.
speaker1: who?

speaker1: now i'm going to make sure that i tie this four times. do you know why, julie? because four times really means something. 
speaker2: david, don't hurt me.
speaker1: okay, i'm freaked out. it worked. so just tell me right now - where is sofia?
speaker2: i am sofia.
speaker1: in one minute i'm going to call the police --
speaker2: don't do it, honey.
speaker1: i knew you'd survived the accident.
speaker2: what. accident?

speaker1: whose body was it? who's the one who hired you? the seven dwarves? 
speaker2: i haven't had any accident!
speaker1: no, of course not. it wasn't an accident at all. it was attempted murder!
speaker2: honey, please.
speaker1: police department? i've captured an intruder who's entered my home.

speaker1: guys, can you give us a minute here? detective larson... detective andrews... thank you. the room empties, and tipp approaches david. 
speaker2: they think that i had something to so with this.
speaker1: i'm going to handle this exactly the way your father would have handled this. i've got it solved.
speaker2: you've got it solved? where is she?
speaker1: she's going to be fine.

speaker1: thank you're here, man. i love her. 
speaker2: yeah... now, i want you to look at these photos and then i'm going to destroy them. sofia's testimony is also in here. it won't exist. she's not going to press charges.
speaker1: press charges against. me?
speaker2: david, wake up. as your friend, i think you should see what you did to sofia. the press won't get hold of this if you get. away quickly.
speaker1: this is julie gianni. that's not sofia. this is julie gianni. i didn't do that do that to her. tommy, someone's setting me up.
speaker2: david, the board and i have taken care of everything. they've been really great, actually. all of this is going to disappear. we're all behind you... even the board.
speaker2: get out of here.

speaker1: you're in sad shape, man. don't ever hit a girl, man. hit me, but don't ever hit a girl. 
speaker2: it wasn't sofia. it was julie.
speaker1: oh... it was julie gianni. so, sofia was abducted by julie, and now julie is posing as sofia.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you're in o.j. land, man. julie gianni is dead!
speaker2: i don't know what the cops have told you, but let me assure you - julie gianni is alive alive alive.
speaker1: i didn't talk to the cops. i talked to sofia!
speaker2: where is she?
speaker1: i just dropped sofia off. and i saw everything you did to her.

speaker1: let me tell you something - i did not do that to her. look me in the eye and tell me that it was the same girl you brought to the party. tell me it was your dream girl, your "proximity infatuation." 
speaker2: the one girl i really wanted, and you took her from me. you're insane. you're losing it, man.
speaker1: you have revealed yourself.
speaker2: oh yeah, i'm with them.
speaker1: where'd you get the coat, brian? where'd you get the camera? how much did they pay you?
speaker2: listen to me, 'cause it's the last time we're ever gonna speak. i was your only friend.
speaker1: you have revealed yourself to me.

speaker1: problems? 
speaker2: i'm in no mood to be with.
speaker1: there's an explanation for all this, david.
speaker2: who the are you?
speaker1: you and i know each other. you found me on the internet.
speaker2: what do you want? why are you following me?
speaker1: i'm here to help you. and first of all, it's very important that you calm down.
speaker2: calm down?
speaker1: you must overcome your fears and regain control. take hold of your life again. it's as easy as holding that glass. what if i told you that you can take control of all of this... everything... even me...
speaker2: look. i'm straight, okay?
speaker1: david, look at these people. it seems as though they're chatting away, doesn't it? nothing to do with you -

speaker1: -- and yet, they might only be here because you wanted them to be. you are their and not only that, you could make them obey you... or even destroy you. 
speaker2: what i'd like them to do is shut up! especially you! silence. david opens his eyes. they're all staring at him. casually waiting for orders.
speaker1: you see?
speaker1: you and i signed a contract, david.

speaker1: who is the man in the restaurant? 
speaker2: i can' t. --
speaker1: can you tell the difference between dreams and reality?
speaker2: of course. can you?
speaker1: think about it. think with your head. you signed a contract, did you not.?

speaker1: i signed something. 
speaker2: was the man at the restaurant there?
speaker1: 
speaker2: accept your body's resistance.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: that's right. who is ellie?
speaker1: i... i don't know what's real.
speaker2: what happened that night, david?
speaker1: i don't want to remember.
speaker2: do you understand that you hold the keys to this prison?
speaker1: it wasn't sofia.
speaker2: who was it?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: who was it?

speaker1: no! 
speaker2: you want to let it out, don't you david? you're about to tell me. tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget.
speaker2: did you kill sofia?

speaker1: i thought you were a vandal. 
speaker2: who... are... you?
speaker1: i'm sofia.
speaker2: you are not sofia... you're not sofia...

speaker1: i'm sofia. 
speaker2: whatever.
speaker1: david, honey. this will all be over soon. we'll be together again. you'll forget julianna and i won't be afraid of you. let me get you a cold towel.

speaker1: where were you... 
speaker1: i don't want to know. just tell me you love me.

speaker1: i love you. i'm afraid of how powerful this is. 
speaker2: what the is happening?
speaker2: i want to see your face!
speaker2: i want to see your face!

speaker1: i did it, didn't i? i don't... feel... like i killed someone. i feel like... 
speaker2: david, who...
speaker1: i'm in a dream...
speaker2: . was the man at the restaurant?
speaker2: sometimes the mind behaves as if it were in a dream. faces change, people become other people. the subconscious is a powerful thing. you treated julie carelessly, didn't you, david? your feeling of responsibility or guilt over julie might have easily turned sofia into julie. do you know what derangement is?
speaker1: i need your help.
speaker2: all i know is, you killed your girlfriend and i don't know what's in your mind.
speaker1: i need your help.
speaker2: i'd work on this case forever if i could, but we've run out of time.

speaker1: what will you plead? 
speaker2: temporary derangement. it's your best chance. they won't believe me.
speaker1: what do you believe?
speaker2: believe it or not, i care about you. you've become like family to me. i don't want to give up on you.
speaker2: but i needed more. i needed an answer. i... i even thought there was more than a good chance someone was playing tricks on you. maybe it was the board. but i can't exceed my duties here. i'm just a psychologist, and i have to leave you.
speaker1: will i see you at the trial?
speaker2: no. i'm just the opening act.

speaker1: life extension corporation, please. 
speaker2: what -
speaker1: l.e. we hold a court order.
speaker3: i think i've been here before -

speaker1: her name is libby. 
speaker2: good morning. i'm libby. i'm here to assist you.
speaker3: he's my son. he's very shy.
speaker2: you're not. with the media or part.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: welcome to life extension. have a look at our proposal. please follow me.
speaker3: you can wait out here.
speaker2: you'll be meeting rebecca dearborn. my personal role model.

speaker1: .and i'm not a "true believer" by nature. but the older you get, the more you see the flow of the future, and i made a choice... 
speaker2: .why not embrace the future? i believe the research - the future is in the union of the spiritual... and the scientific...

speaker1: "cryonization - a journey of re- awakening after the preservation of the human body at extremely low temperatures." 
speaker2: they laughed at jules verne too.
speaker1: david, you're not-
speaker3: mr. mccabe, how are you? i'm rebecca dearborn. life extension, or l.e. as we like to refer to it, is a glimpse of the future... a ticket... not in the juvenile sense, but in the deeply meaningful sense that can only be borne in the human heart.

speaker1: the dna codes of the human body have been broken. soon, heart ailments, cancer and so much more, will be a thing of the past. very simply, your anguish... your discontent... even your death is no longer necessary in a traditional sense. whatever malady that hides behind that mask... is temporary. 
speaker2: within an hour of your passing, l.e. will transfer your body to a vessel where you will be sealed and frozen at 196 degrees below zero. power outages, earthquakes, nothing will effect your suspension-hibernation.
speaker3: did you sign this contract, david?
speaker4: what's the "lucid dream" option?
speaker2: good choice. the lucid dream is life extension's newest option. for a little extra, we offer the cryonic union of science and entertainment.
speaker3: "cryo-tainment. "
speaker2: some find this presentation helpful.

speaker1: another chapter begins seamlessly, a living dream. life extension's promise to you. life -- part two. 
speaker2: a living dream.
speaker3: your death will be wiped from your memory. i guess i missed that one in usa today.
speaker4: . a dream... what if there was a mistake? what if the dream became a nightmare?
speaker2: of course, your subconscious can always play tricks on you. the subconscious is a very powerful thing -

speaker1: did you sign a contract with these people, david? 
speaker2: -but this is a serious business.

speaker1: and what is any life, if not the pursuit of a dream? the dream of peace. the dream of achievement. the dream of hearing someone saying these words, when they truly mean them. 
speaker2: i love you, david. te quiero. roam free, david. most of us live our whole lives with no real adventure to call our own. it's hard to comprehend-but they laughed at jules verne too.

speaker1: tech support. 
speaker2: yes, i'm your tech support. we first met 150 years ago.
speaker1: oh you sold me the lucid dream.
speaker1: well, what the happened?
speaker2: i tried to warn you in the bar. i told you to exercise control, that it all depended on your mind. all of this, everything is your creation. and we're now heading toward your true moment, of choice.
speaker1: "true moment of choice?"
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: when did the lucid dream begin?

speaker1: remember the day of the nightclub? 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: that night, when sofia left you and you fell asleep on the pavement, that was the moment you chose for the splice... 
speaker2: the splice?
speaker3: the mask has tumbled out of his hand.
speaker1: splice. the end of your "real" life and the beginning of l.e.'s lucid dream. a splice of many years which passed while you were frozen and dreaming.

speaker1: open your eyes. 
speaker2: from the moment you woke up on that street, nothing was "real" in

speaker1: forgive me. i'm blowing your mind. 
speaker2: i'm not a big fan of heights.
speaker1: i know. we erased what really happened from your memory.
speaker2: ..erased?
speaker1: replaced by a better life under these beautiful monet-like skies.
speaker2: my mother's favorite.
speaker1: that's right.. a better life because you had sofia.
speaker1: and you sculpted your lucid dream out of the iconography of your youth.

speaker1: an album cover that once moved you... 
speaker2: an album cover?

speaker1: what happened in my real life? something happened. what did you erase? 
speaker2: do you really want to know?
speaker3: almost nauseous
speaker1: tell me everything.

speaker1: the morning after the nightclub, you woke up on that street, hung- over and along. you got up and walked away. you never saw sofia again. 
speaker2: i didn't kill sofia.
speaker1: no.
speaker1: you battled your board, the seven dwarves, for control. in the end it was thomas tipp, your father's

speaker1: you longed for sofia. you shut yourself away for months. you were alone. you couldn't take the pain anymore. headaches... you could barely function. 
speaker2: i found you on the internet. i signed the contract with you. and then...

speaker1: i remember... 
speaker1: somebody died. it was me.

speaker1: you were missed, david. 
speaker1: it was sofia who never fully recovered. it was she who somehow knew you best. and like you, she never forgot that one night where real, true love seemed possible.

speaker1: your subconscious did create problems. your dream turned into a nightmare. the glitch has been corrected. 
speaker2: so all i have to do is imagine something? if i wanted mccabe to come back, right now - mccabe comes flying out of the door.
speaker3: david. listen to me. these people are dangerous. we're in trouble. we need to get off this roof now.
speaker4: who turns from mccabe to ventura.
speaker1: we're now on "pause". and you're about to return to your lucid dream...
speaker3: "pause"?
speaker1: .. with all of the upgrades. you won't remember any of this, nor be charged for the technical support. it is now your moment of choice. you can return to your lucid dream, and live a beautiful life

speaker1: the world out. there. and you can bring me back, just. like benny the dog. 
speaker2: the client is starting to understand.
speaker3: yes. just like benny the dog. your face and body can now be fixed, of course. but it's very different out there now. your finances won't last long. your panel of observers are waiting for you to choose.
speaker3: there are no guarantees. but remember, even in the future, the sweet is never as sweet without the sour.
speaker1: how do i wake up?
speaker3: the decision is yours.
speaker1: and i chose this scenario, didn't

speaker1: yes, to face your last remaining fear of heights. 
speaker2: david, don't listen to him. you were right. this is the seven dwarves. it's a set up! you can't trust him.
speaker1: don't feel bad, david. this winning man is your creation. it's in his nature to fight for his existence. but he's not real.
speaker3: who looks on with compassion.
speaker2: i'm real. i have two daughters.
speaker1: what are their names?

speaker1: who feels for mccabe as the apparition crumbles. 
speaker2: mortality as home entertainment. this cannot be the future. can it?
speaker2: goodbye.

speaker1: it's been a brilliant journey of self-awakening, and you've simply got to ask yourself -- what is happiness to you? 
speaker2: his moment of realization.
speaker3: i want to live a real life. i don't want to dream any longer.
speaker1: any last wishes?
speaker3: let them out there read my mind.
speaker1: i wish you well, david.
speaker3: look at us. i'm frozen, and you're dead. and i love you.
speaker4: it's a problem.
speaker3: i lost you when i got in that car. i'm sorry.
speaker3: but remember what you told me once? every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around.
speaker4: i'll find you again.

speaker1: relax... relax, david... open your eyes... 
speaker1: open your eyes.

