MED-TECH: why don't i open the viewport? watch your eyes. 
MED-TECH: and how are we today?
RIPLEY: terrible.
MED-TECH: just terrible? that's better than yesterday at least.
RIPLEY: how long have i been on gateway station?
MED-TECH: just a couple of days. do you feel up to a visitor?
RIPLEY: jones!
RIPLEY: come here jonesy you ugly old moose...you ugly thing.
MAN: nice room. i'm burke. carter burke. i work for the company, but other than that i'm an okay guy. glad to see you're feeling better. i'm told the weakness and disorientation should pass soon. side effects of the unusually long hypersleep, or something like that.
RIPLEY: how long was i out there? they won't tell me anything.
BURKE: well, maybe you shouldn't worry about that just yet.
RIPLEY: how long?
BURKE: all right. my instinct says you're strong enough to handle this...fifty-seven years.
RIPLEY: fifty-seven...oh,
BURKE: you'd drifted right through the core systems. it's blind luck that deep-salvage team caught you when they...are you all right?
MED-TECH: code blue! 415. code blue!

RIPLEY: no...noooo! 
DOCTOR: hold her...get me an airway, stat! and fifteen cc's of...jesus!

MED-TECH: bad dreams again? do you want something to help you sleep? 
RIPLEY: we made it, jones. we made it.

RIPLEY: dumbshit. 
BURKE: sorry...i've been running behind all morning.
RIPLEY: have they located my daughter yet?
BURKE: well, i was going to wait until after the inquest...
RIPLEY: is she...?
BURKE: amanda ripley-mcclaren. married name, i guess. age: sixty-six ...at time of death. two years ago. i'm sorry. ripley studies the photograph, stunned. the face of a woman in her mid-sixties. it could be anybody. she tries to reconcile the face with the little girl she once knew.
RIPLEY: amy.
BURKE: cancer. hmmmm. they still haven't licked that one. cremated. interred parkside repository, little chute, wisconsin. no children. ripley gazes off, into the pseudo-landscape, into the past.
RIPLEY: i promised her i'd be home for her birthday. her eleventh birthday. i sure missed that one. well...she has already learned to take my promises with a grain of salt. when it came to flight schedules, anyway.
RIPLEY: you always think you can make it up to somebody...later, you know. but now i never can. i never can.
BURKE: the hearing convenes at 0930. you don't want to be late.

RIPLEY: you read my deposition...it's complete and accurate. 
BURKE: look, i believe you, but there are going to be some heavyweights in there. you got feds, you got interstellar commerce commission, you got colonial administration, insurance company guys...
RIPLEY: i get the picture.
BURKE: just tell them what happened. the important thing is to stay cool and unemotional.
RIPLEY: do you people have earwax, of what? we have been here three hours. how many different ways do you want me to tell the same story?
VAN LEUWEN: look at it from our perspective. you freely admit to detonating the engines of, and thereby destroying, an m-class star-freighter. a rather expensive piece of hardware...
INSURANCE INVESTIGATOR: forty-two million in adjusted dollars.
VAN LEUWEN: the shuttle's flight recorder corroborates some elements of your account. that the nostromo set down on lv-426, an unsurveyed planet, at that time. that repairs were made. that it resumed its course and was subsequently set for self-destruct. by you. for reasons unknown.
RIPLEY: look, i told you...
VAN LEUWEN: it did not, however, contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up.
RIPLEY: then somebody's gotten to it... doctored the recorder. who had access to it?
ECA REP: would you just listen to yourself for one minute.
VAN LEUWEN: the analysis team which went over your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe...
RIPLEY: that's because i blew it out the airlock! like i said.
INSURANCE MAN: are there any species like this 'hostile organism' on lv-426?
ECA REP: no. it's a rock. no indigenous life larger than a simple virus.
RIPLEY: i told you, it wasn't indigenous. there was an alien spacecraft there. a derelict ship. we homed on its beacon...
ECA REP: to be perfectly frank, we've surveyed over three hundred worlds and no one's ever reported a creature which, using your words... ...'gestates in a living human host' and has 'concentrated molecular acid for blood.'
RIPLEY: look, i can see where this is going. but i'm telling you those things exist. back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs. thousands. do you understand? i suggest you find it, using the flight recorder's data. find it and deal with it -- before one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise...
VAN LEUWEN: thank you, officer ripley. that will be...
RIPLEY: ...because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew, within twelve hours of hatching...
VAN LEUWEN: thank you, that will be all.
RIPLEY: that's not all, goddamnit! if those things get back here, that will be all. then you can just kiss it good-bye, jack! just kiss it goodbye.

BURKE: you had them eating out of your hand, kiddo. 
RIPLEY: they had their minds made up before i even went in there.
BURKE: you are a head case. have a donut.
VAN LEUWEN: it is the finding of this board of inquiry that warrent officer ellen ripley, noc-14672. has acted with questionable judgment and is unfit to hold an icc license as a commercial flight officer.
VAN LEUWEN: said license is hereby suspended indefinitely. no criminal charges will be filed at this time and you are released on own recognizance for a six month period of psychometric probation, to include monthly review by an icc psychiatric tech...

RIPLEY: why won't you check out lv-426? 
VAN LEUWEN: because i don't have to. the people who live there checked it out years ago and they never reported and 'hostile organism' or alien ship. and by the way, they call it acheron now.
RIPLEY: what are you talking about. what people?
VAN LEUWEN: terraformers...planet engineers. it's what we call a shake 'n' bake colony. they set up atmosphere processors to make the air breathable...big job. takes decades. they've already been there over twenty years. peacefully.
RIPLEY: how many colonists?
VAN LEUWEN: sixty, maybe seventy families.
RIPLEY: sweet
ELEVATOR PASSENGER: do you mind?

LYDECKER: you remember you sent some wildcatters out to that plateau, out past the ilium range, a couple days ago? 
SIMPSON: yeah. what?
LYDECKER: there's a guy on the horn, mom-and-pop survey team. says he's homing on something and wants to know if his claim will be honored.
SIMPSON: christ. some honch in a cushy office on earth says go look at a grid reference in the middle of nowhere, we look. they don't say why, and i don't ask. i don't ask because it takes two weeks to get an answer out here and the answer's always 'don't ask.'
LYDECKER: so what do i tell this guy?
SIMPSON: tell him, as far as i'm concerned, he finds something it's his.

JORDEN: look at this fat, juicy magnetic profile. and it's mine, mine, mine. 
ANNE: half mine, dear.
NEWT: and half mine!
JORDEN: i got too many partners.
NEWT: daddy, when are we going back to town?
JORDEN: when we get rich, newt.
NEWT: you always say that. i wanna go back. i wanna play 'monster maze.'
TIM: you cheat too much.
NEWT: do not. i'm just the best.
TIM: do too! you go in places we can't fit.
NEWT: so! that's why i'm the best.
ANNE: knock it off! i catch either of you playing in the air ducts again i'll tan your hides.
NEWT: mom. all the kids play it...
JORDEN: holy shiiit!
JORDEN: folks, we have scored big this time.

ANNE: you kids stay inside. i mean it! we'll be right back. 
ANNE: shouldn't we call in?
JORDEN: let's wait till we know what to call it in as.
ANNE: how about 'big weird thing'? they pause at a twisted gash in the hull. blackness inside.

NEWT: timmy...they've been gone a long time. 
TIM: it'll be okay, newt. dad knows what he's doing. crash! newt screams as the door beside her is ripped open. a dark shape lunges inside!
ANNE: mayday! mayday! this is alpha kilo two four niner calling hadley control. repeat. this is...

VOICE FROM VIDEO: hey, bob! i heard you and the family are heading off for the colonies! 
BON: best decision i ever made, bill. we'll be starting a new life from scratch, in a clean world. no crime. no unemployment...

BURKE: hi, ripley. this is lieutenant gorman of the... 
BURKE: ripley we have to talk. they've lost contact with the colony on acheron.

RIPLEY: no. there's no way! 
BURKE: hear me out...
RIPLEY: i was reamed, steamed and dry-cleaned by you guys...and now you want me to go back out there? forget it.
BURKE: look, we don't know what's going on out there. it may just be a down transmitter. but if it's not, i want you there...as an advisor. that's all.
GORMAN: you wouldn't be going in with the troops. i can guarantee your safety.
BURKE: these colonial marines are some tough hombres, and they're packing state-of-the-art firepower. nothing they can't handle...right, lieutenant?
GORMAN: we're trained to deal with these kinds of situations.
RIPLEY: what about you? what's your interest in this?
BURKE: well, the corporation co-financed that colony with the colonial administration, against mineral rights. we're getting into a lot of terraforming...'building better worlds.' burke is revealing his early days in sales.
RIPLEY: yeah, yeah. i saw the commercial.
BURKE: i heard you were working in the cargo docks.
RIPLEY: that's right.
BURKE: running loaders, forklifts, that sort of thing?
RIPLEY: it's all i could get. anyway, it keeps my mind off of...
BURKE: what if i said i could get you reinstated as a flight officer? and that the company has agreed to pick up your contract?
RIPLEY: if i go.
BURKE: if you go. it's a second chance, kiddo. and it'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fear and beat it. you gotta get back on the horse...
RIPLEY: spare me, burke. i've had my psych evaluation this month.
BURKE: yes, and i've read it. you wake up every night, sheets soaking, the same nightmare over and over...
RIPLEY: no! the answer is no. now please go. i'm sorry. just go, would you.
BURKE: think about it.

BURKE: yello? oh, ripley. hi... 
RIPLEY: burke, just tell me one thing. that you're going out there to kill them. not study. not bring back. just burn them out...clean ...forever.
BURKE: that's the plan. my word on it.
RIPLEY: all right. i'm in.
RIPLEY: and you my dear, are staying right here.

SPUNKMEYER: arrgh. i'm getting too old for this 
DRAKE: they ain't payin' us enough for this.
DIETRICH: not enough to have to wake up to your face, drake.
DRAKE: air. hey, hicks...you look like i feel.
HUDSON: this floor's freezing.
APONE: christ. i never saw such a buncha old women. you want me to fetch your slippers, hudson?
HUDSON: would you, sir?
HUDSON: hey, vasquez...you ever been mistaken for a man?
VASQUEZ: no. have you?
FROST: hey, hand job, you take my towel?
SPUNKMEYER: i need some slack, man. how come they send us straight back out like this? we got some slack comin', man.
HICKS: you just got three weeks.
SPUNKMEYER: i mean breathing, not this frozen
DIETRICH: yeah, 'top'...what about it?
APONE: you know it ain't up to me. awright! let's knock off the grabass. first assembly's in fifteen...let's it.

VASQUEZ: who's the fresh meat again? 
FERRO: she's supposed to be some kinda consultant... ...she was an alien once.
HUDSON: whoooah! no i'm impressed.
APONE: let's go...let's go. cycle through!

HUDSON: hey, 'top.' what's the op? 
APONE: rescue mission. there's some juicy colonists' daughters we gotta rescue from virginity.
SPUNKMEYER: shee-it. dumbass colonists.
WIERZBOWSKI: cornbread, i think. hey, i wouldn't mind getting me some more a that arcturan poontang. remember that time?
HICKS: looks like that new lieutenant's too good to eat with us grunts.
BISHOP: i'm sorry you feel that way about synthetics, ripley.
RIPLEY: you never said anything about an android being here! why not?
BURKE: well, it didn't occur to me. it's been policy for years to have a synthetic on board.
BISHOP: i prefer the term 'artificial person' myself. is there a problem?
BURKE: a synthetic malfunctioned on her last trip out. some deaths were involved.
BISHOP: i'm shocked. was it an older model?
BURKE: cyberdyne systems 120-a/2.
BISHOP: well, that explains it. the a/2's were always a bit twitchy. that could never happen now with out behavioral inhibitors. impossible for me to harm or, by omission of action, allow to be harmed a human being. more cornbread?
RIPLEY: just stay away from me, bishop! you got that straight? burke and gorman exchange glances.
WIERZBOWSKI: she don't like the cornbread either.
APONE: tench-hut!
GORMAN: at ease. i'm sorry we didn't have time to brief before we left gateway but...
HUDSON: sir?
GORMAN: yes, hicks?
HUDSON: hudson, sir. he's hicks.
GORMAN: what's the question?
HUDSON: is this going to be a stand-up fight, sir, on another bug-hunt?
GORMAN: all we know is that there's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved.
WIERZBOWSKI: a what?
HICKS: it's a bug-hunt. so what are these things?
RIPLEY: i've dictated what i know on these.
APONE: tease us a bit.
SPUNKMEYER: yeah...previews.
RIPLEY: okay. it's important to understand this organism's life cycle. it's actually two creatures. the first form hatches from a spore...a sort of large egg, and attaches itself to its victim. then it injects an embryo, detaches and dies. it's essentially a walking organ.
HUDSON: sounds like you, hicks.
RIPLEY: the embryo, the second form, hosts in the victim's body for several hours. gestating. then it... ...then it...emerges. moults.
VASQUEZ: i only need to know one thing.
RIPLEY: yes?
VASQUEZ: where they are.
DRAKE: yo! vasquez. kick ass!
VASQUEZ: anytime. anywhere.
HUDSON: somebody said alien...she thought they said illegal alien and signed up.
VASQUEZ: you.
HUDSON: anytime. anywhere.
RIPLEY: am i disturbing you conversation mr. hudson? hudson settles down, smirking. ripley locks eyes with vasquez.
RIPLEY: i hope you're right. i really do.
BURKE: i suggest you study the disks ripley has been kind enough to prepare for you.
GORMAN: are there any questions? hudson?
HUDSON: how do i get out of this chicken-shit outfit?
GORMAN: all right. i want this to go smooth and by the numbers. i want dcs and tactical database assimilation by 0830. ordnance loading, weapons strip and drop-ship prep details will have seven hours...

BURKE: still nothing from the colony? 
GORMAN: dead on all channels.
FROST: clear, please.
HUDSON: excuse me.
RIPLEY: i feel like a fifth wheel here. is there anything i can do?
APONE: i don't know. is there anything you can do?
RIPLEY: where you want it?

HUDSON: i am ready, man. ready to get it on. check-it-out. i am the ultimate badass...state of the badass art. you do not want to with me. hey, ripley, don't worry. me and my squad of ultimate badasses will protect you. check-it-out... 
HUDSON: independently targetting particle-beam phalanx. vwap! fry half a city with this puppy. we got tactical smart-missles, phased-plasma pulse-rifles, rpg's. we got sonic eeelectronic ballbreakers, we got nukes, we got knives...sharp sticks --
HICKS: save it.
HUDSON: sure, hicks.
BURKE: here we go.

FERRO: switching to dcs ranging. 
SPUNKMEYER: two-four-o. nominal to profile.
FERRO: got it. rough air ahead.
FERRO: stand by for some chop.
RIPLEY: how may drops is this for you, lieutenant?
GORMAN: thirty-eight...simulated.
VASQUEZ: how many combat drops?
GORMAN: well...two. three, including this one.

GORMAN: let's see. everybody on line. drake, check you camera. there seems to be a... 
GORMAN: ...that's better. pan it around a bit.
APONE: awright. fire-team a. gear up. let's move. two minutes. somebody wake up hicks.
RIPLEY: that the atmosphere processor?
BURKE: uh-hunh. one of thirty or so, all over the planet. they're completely automated. we manufacture them, by the way.

GORMAN: hold at forty. slow circle of the complex. 
RIPLEY: the structure seems intact. they have power.
GORMAN: okay, let's do it.
APONE: awright! i want a nice clean dispersal this time.
VASQUEZ: you staying in here?
RIPLEY: you bet.
VASQUEZ: figures.
GORMAN: set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast. immediate dust off on my 'clear,' then stay on station.
APONE: ten seconds, people. look sharp!

GORMAN: first squad up, on line. hicks, get yours in a cordon. watch the rear. 
APONE: vasquez, take point. let's move.

APONE: sealed. hudson, run a bypass. 
APONE: first squad, assemble on me at the main lock.
GORMAN: second team, move up.

HICKS: nothing. no movement. 
BURKE: looks like my room in college.

RIPLEY: wait! tell him to... ...hicks. back up. pan left. there! 
HICKS: you seeing this okay? looks melted.
BURKE: hmm. acid for blood.
HICKS: looks like somebody bagged them one of ripley's bad guys here.
HUDSON: hey, if you like that, you're gonna love this...
APONE: second squad? what's your status?
HICKS: just finished our sweep.
APONE: the place is dead, sir. whatever happened, we missed it.
GORMAN: all right, the area's secured. let's go in and see what their computer can tell us. first team head for operations. hudson, see if you can get their cpu on line. hicks, meet me at the south lock by the up-link tower...

GORMAN: ...we're coming in. 
HUDSON: he's coming in. i feel safer already.
VASQUEZ: pendejo jerkoff.

HUDSON: sir, the cpu is on-line. 
GORMAN: okay, stand by in operations. let's go.

RIPLEY: burke! 
WIERZBOWSKI: scare you?
RIPLEY: christ, wierzbowski!
WIERZBOWSKI: sorry. hicks said to keep an eye on you.

GORMAN: looks like you company can write off its share of this colony. 
BURKE: it's insured.
FRONT: sir, you should check this out...

WIERZBOWSKI: last stand. 
GORMAN: no bodies?
FROST: no, sir. looks like it was a helluva fight.
BURKE: are these the same...?
RIPLEY: watch it, burke...
HICKS: it likes you.
BURKE: these are dead. there's just the two alive.
RIPLEY: removed surgically before embryo implantation. subject: marachuk, john l. died during procedure. they killed him getting it off.
HICKS: poor bastard.
HICKS: behind us.
RIPLEY: one of us?
GORMAN: apone...where are your people?

HICKS: it's moving. 
VASQUEZ: which way?
VASQUEZ: you
HICKS: ow! watchit, she bites.
RIPLEY: it's okay, it's okay. it's over... you're going to be all right now... it's okay...you're safe... newt goes limp, almost catatonic.

GORMAN: what's her name again? 
DIETRICH: rebecca.
GORMAN: now think, rebecca. concentrate. just start at the beginning...
GORMAN: where are your parents? you have to try...
RIPLEY: gorman! give it a rest would you.
GORMAN: total brain-lock.
DIETRICH: physically she's okay. borderline malnutrition, but i don't think any permanent damage.
GORMAN: come on, we're wasting our time.
RIPLEY: here, try this. a little instant hot chocolate.
RIPLEY: poor thing. you don't talk much do you? that's okay by me. most people do a lot of talking and they wind up not saying very much.
RIPLEY: uh oh. i made a clean spot here. now i've done it. guess i'll just have to do the whole thing.
RIPLEY: hard to believe...there's a little girl under all this. and a pretty one at that.

BURKE: what's he scanning for? 
GORMAN: pdt's. personal-data transmitters. every adult colonist had one surgically implanted.
HUDSON: if they're within twenty klicks we'll read it out here, but so far...zip.

RIPLEY: i don't know how you managed to stay alive but you're one brave kid, rebecca. 
NEWT: n-newt.
RIPLEY: what did you say?
NEWT: newt. my n-name's newt. nobody calls me rebecca except my dork brother.
RIPLEY: well, newt it is then. my name's ripley...and people call me ripley.
RIPLEY: pleased to meet you. and who is this? does she have a name?
NEWT: casey. she's my only friend.
RIPLEY: what about me?
NEWT: i don't want you for a friend.
RIPLEY: why not?
NEWT: because you'll be gone soon, like the others. like everybody. you'll be dead and you'll leave me alone.
RIPLEY: oh, newt. you mom and dad went away like that, didn't they?
RIPLEY: newt nods, staring at her knees.
RIPLEY: they'd be here if they could, honey. i know they would.
NEWT: they're dead.
RIPLEY: newt. look at me...newt. i won't leave you. i promise.
NEWT: you promise?
RIPLEY: cross my heart.
NEWT: and hope to die?
HUDSON: hah! stop your grinnin' and drop your linen! found 'em.
GORMAN: alive?
HUDSON: unknown. but, it looks like all of them. over at the processing station...sublevel 'c' under the south tower.
HICKS: looks like a town meeting.
GORMAN: let's saddle up.
APONE: awright, let's go girls, they ain't payin' us by the hour.

NEWT: i was the best at the game. 
RIPLEY: the 'maze'? you mean the air ducts?
NEWT: yeah, you know. in the walls, under the floor. i was the ace. i could hide better than anybody.
RIPLEY: you're really something, ace.

GORMAN: forty meters in. ramp on axial two-two. access to sublevels. 
GORMAN: b-level. next one down.

GORMAN: we're not making that out too well. what is it? 
HUDSON: you tell me. i only work here.

GORMAN: what is it? 
RIPLEY: i don't know.
GORMAN: proceed inside.

RIPLEY: oh 
RIPLEY: close on video as it pan slowly...revealing a
DIETRICH: looks like some sort of secreted resin.
GORMAN: they ripped apart the colony for building materials.
RIPLEY: and the colonists...when they were done with them. newt, you better go sit up front. go on.

FROST: hotter'n in here. 
HUDSON: yeah...but it's a dry heat.

RIPLEY: they're right under the primary heat exchangers. 
BURKE: yeah? maybe the organisms like the heat, that's why they built...
RIPLEY: that's not what i mean. gorman, if your men have to use their weapons in there, they'll rupture the cooling system.
BURKE: she's right.
GORMAN: so.
RIPLEY: so...then the fusion containment shuts down.
GORMAN: so? so?
BURKE: we're talking thermonuclear explosion.
GORMAN: apone, collect magazines from everybody. we can't have any firing in there.
WIERZBOWSKI: is he crazy?
HUDSON: what're we supposed to use, man? harsh language?
GORMAN: flame-units only. i want rifles slung.
APONE: let's go. pull 'em out.
HICKS: i always keep this handy.
APONE: let's move. hicks, back us up.
GORMAN: any movement?
HUDSON: nothing. zip.
DIETRICH: sir!
WOMAN: please...god...kill me.

HUDSON: movement! 
APONE: position?
HUDSON: can't lock up...
APONE: talk to me, hudson.
HUDSON: uh, seems to be in front and behind.

GORMAN: we can't see anything back here, apone. what's going on? 
RIPLEY: pull you team out, gorman.

APONE: go to infrared. looks sharp people! 
HUDSON: multiple signals. all round. closing.
VASQUEZ: let's rock.
GORMAN: who's firing? i ordered a hold fire,

HUDSON: let's get the out of here! 
HICKS: not that tunnel, the other one!
CROWE: you sure? watch it...behind you. move, will you! gorman is ashen. confused. gulping for air like a grouper. how could the situation have unravelled so fast?

GORMAN: shut up. just shut up! 
GORMAN: uh,...apone, i want you to lay down a suppressing fire with the incinerators and fall back by squads to the apc, over.
APONE: say again? all after incinerators?
GORMAN: i said...
GORMAN: ...lay down ...by squads to...
APONE: dietrich? crowe? sound off! wierzbowski? nothing. he spins. almost blows hudson's head off.
HUDSON: we're getting juked! we're gonna die in here! apone hands him a magazine. hudson slaps it home, looking truly terrified.
APONE: yeah. right. right! the heat exchanger!
GORMAN: i told them to fall back...
RIPLEY: they're but off! do something! but he's gone. total brain-lock. tight on ripley as she struggles with a decision. she's terrified...of what she knows she's about to do. but more than that, she's furious. shouldering past a paralyzed gorman she runs up the aisle of the

RIPLEY: newt, put your seatbelt on! 
GORMAN: ripley, what the hell...?

VASQUEZ: drake! he's down! 
HICKS: he's gone! forget it, he's gone!
VASQUEZ: no.. no, he's not. he's --
HICKS: let's go!
HICKS: get on the door!

HICKS: it's okay...we're clear. we're clear. ease up. 
HICKS: sounds like a blown transaxle.

RIPLEY: newt? where's newt? 
RIPLEY: you okay?
HUDSON: jesus...jesus...i don't believe it.
HUDSON: i'm all right, leave it!
HICKS: he's alive. i think he's paralyzed.
VASQUEZ: he's dead!
VASQUEZ: wake up pendejo! i'm gonna kill you, you useless
HICKS: hold it. hold it. back off, right now.
RIPLEY: looks like it stung him.
HUDSON: hey...hey! look, crowe and dietrich aren't dead, man.
HUDSON: they must be like gorman. their signs are real low but they ain't dead!
RIPLEY: you can't help them. right now they're being cocooned just like the others.
HUDSON: oh, this ain't happening. ripley and vasquez lock eyes. ripley doesn't want it to be "i told you so" but vasquez reads it that way. she turns away with a snap.

VASQUEZ: all right, we can't blow the out of them...why not roll some canisters of cn-20 down there. 
HUDSON: look, man, let's just bug out and call it even, okay?
RIPLEY: no good. how do we know it'll effect their biochemistry? i say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit. it's the only way to be sure.
BURKE: now hold on a second. i'm not authorizing that action.
RIPLEY: why not?
BURKE: well, i mean...i know this is an emotional moment, but let's not make snap judgments. let's move cautiously. first, this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it --
RIPLEY: they can bill me. i got a tab running. what's second?
BURKE: this is clearly an important species we're dealing with here. we can't just arbitrarily exterminate them --
RIPLEY: 
VASQUEZ: yeah, watch us.
HUDSON: maybe you haven't been keeping up on current events, but we just got out kicked, pal!
RIPLEY: look, burke. we had an agreement.
BURKE: i know, i know, but we're dealing with changing scenarios here. this thing is major, ripley. i mean really major. you gotta go with its energy. since you are the representative of the company who discovered this species your percentage will naturally be some serious, serious money. ripley stares at his like he's a particularly disagreeable fungus.
RIPLEY: you son of a
BURKE: don't make me pull rank, ripley.
RIPLEY: what rank? i believe corporal hicks has authority here.
BURKE: corporal hicks!?
RIPLEY: this operation is under military jurisdiction and hicks is next in chain of command. right?
HICKS: looks that way.
BURKE: look, this is a multimillion dollar operation. he can't make that kind of decision. he's just a grunt! no offense.
HICKS: none taken. ferro, you copying?
FERRO: standing by.
HICKS: prep for dust-off. we're gonna need an immediate evac. i think we'll take off and nuke the site from orbit. it's the only way to be sure.
BURKE: this is absurd! you don't have the authority to --
RIPLEY: we're going home, honey.

FERRO: spunkmeyer? goddammit. 
FERRO: where the fu --

HUDSON: well that's great! that's just great, man. now what the are we supposed to do, man? 
HICKS: are you finished? you okay?
NEWT: i guess we're not leaving, right?
RIPLEY: i'm sorry, newt.
NEWT: you don't have to be sorry. it wasn't your fault.
HUDSON: just tell me what the we're supposed to do now. what're we gonna do now?
BURKE: may be could build a fire and sing songs.
NEWT: we should get back, 'cause it'll be dark soon. they come mostly at night. mostly.

HICKS: this is all we could salvage. we've got four pulse-rifles with about fifty rounds each. not so good. about fifteen m-40 grenades and two flame throwers less than half full...one damaged. and we've got four of these robot-sentry units with scanners and display intact. 
RIPLEY: how long after we're declared overdue can we expect a rescue?
HICKS: about seventeen days.
HUDSON: man, we're not going to make it seventeen hours! those things are going to come in here, just like they did before, man... they're going to come in here and get us, man, long before...
RIPLEY: she survived longer than that with no weapons and no training.
RIPLEY: so you better just start dealing with it. just deal with it, hudson...because we need you and i'm tired of your now get on a terminal and call up some kind of floor plan file. construction blueprints, maintenance schematics, anything that shows the layout of this place. i want to see air ducts, electrical access tunnels, subbasements. every possible way into this wing.
HUDSON: aye-firmative. i'm on it.
BISHOP: i'll be in medical. i'd like to continue my analysis.
RIPLEY: fine. you do that.

RIPLEY: this service tunnel is how they're moving back and forth. 
HUDSON: yeah, right, it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here.
RIPLEY: all right. there's a fire door at this end. the first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door.
HICKS: we gotta figure on them getting into the complex.
RIPLEY: that's right. so we put up welded barricades at these intersections... ...and seal these ducts here and here. then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the other two sentry units, here.
HICKS: outstanding. then all we need's a deck of cards. all right, let's move like we got a purpose.
HUDSON: aye-firmative.
NEWT: aye-firmative!

VASQUEZ: testing! 
HUDSON: hudson here. a and b sentries are in place and keyed. we're sealing the tunnel.
HICKS: roger.

HICKS: here, put this on. then i can locate you anywhere in the complex on this -- 
HICKS: just a...precaution. you know. ripley pauses for a moment, regarding him quizzically.
RIPLEY: thanks.
HUDSON: uh, what's next?

RIPLEY: now you just lie here and have a nap. you're exhausted. 
NEWT: i don't want to...i have scary dreams.
RIPLEY: i'll bet casey doesn't have bad dreams.
RIPLEY: nothing bad in here. maybe you could just try to be like her.
NEWT: ripley...she doesn't have bad dreams because she's just a piece of plastic.
RIPLEY: oh. sorry, newt.
NEWT: my mommy always said there were no monsters. no real ones. but there are.
RIPLEY: yes, there are, aren't there.
NEWT: why do they tell little kids that?
RIPLEY: well, some kids can't handle it like you can.
NEWT: did one of those things grow inside her?
RIPLEY: i don't know, newt. that's the truth.
NEWT: isn't that how babies come? i mean people babies...they grow inside you?
RIPLEY: no, it's different, honey.
NEWT: did you ever have a baby?
RIPLEY: yes. a little girl.
NEWT: where is she?
RIPLEY: gone.
NEWT: you mean dead.
NEWT: ripley, i was just thinking... maybe i could do you a favor and fill in for her. just for a while. you can try it and if you don't like it, it's okay. i'll understand. no big deal. whattya think?
RIPLEY: i think it's not the worst idea i've heard all day. let's talk about it later.
NEWT: don't go! please.
RIPLEY: i'll be right in the other room, newt. and look...i can see you on that camera right up there.
RIPLEY: here. take is for luck. now go to sleep...and don't dream.

RIPLEY: how is he? 
BISHOP: i've isolated a neuro-muscular toxin responsible for the paralysis. it seems to be metabolizing. he should wake up soon.
RIPLEY: now let me get this straight. the aliens paralyzed the colonists, carried them over there, cocooned them to be hosts for more of those...
RIPLEY: which would mean lots of those parasites, right? one for each person...over a hundred at least.
BISHOP: yes. that follows.
RIPLEY: but these things come from eggs...so where are all the eggs coming from.
BISHOP: that is the question of the hour. we could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization. an ant of termite colony, for example, is ruled by a single female, a queen, which is the source of new eggs.
RIPLEY: you're saying one of those things lays all the eggs?
BISHOP: well, the queen is always physically larger then the others. a termite queen's abdomen is so bloated with eggs that it can't move at all. it is fed and tended by drone workers, defended by the warriors. she is the center of their lives, quite literally the mother of their society.
RIPLEY: could it be intelligent?
BISHOP: hard to say. it may have been blind instinct...attraction to the heat of whatever...but she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we couldn't destroy her without destroying ourselves. that's if she exists, of course.
RIPLEY: i want those specimens destroyed as soon as you're done with them. you understand? bishop glances at the creatures, pulsing malevolently in their cylinders.
BISHOP: mr. burke have instructions that they were to be kept alive in stasis for return to the company labs. he was very specific.
RIPLEY: burke!

BURKE: those specimens are worth millions to the bio-weapons division. now, if you're smart we can both come out of this heroes. set up for life. 
RIPLEY: you just try getting a dangerous organism past icc quarantine.
BURKE: you've been doing your homework. look, they can't impound it if they don't know about it.
RIPLEY: but they will know about it, burke. from me. just like they'll know how you were responsible for the deaths of one hundred and fifty-seven colonists here --
BURKE: now, wait a second --
RIPLEY: you sent them to that ship. i just checked the colony log... directive dates six-twelve-seventy-nine. signed burke, carter j. ripley's fury is peaking, now that the frustration and rage finally have a target to focus on.
RIPLEY: you sent them out there and you didn't even warn them, burke.
BURKE: look, maybe the thing didn't even exist, right? and if i'd made it a major security situation, the administration would've stepped in. then no exclusive rights, nothing.
BURKE: it was a bad call, that's all.
RIPLEY: bad call? these people are dead, burke! well, they're going to nail your hide to the shed... and i'll be there when they do.
BURKE: i expected more of you, ripley. i thought you would be smarter than this.
RIPLEY: sorry to disappoint you.

HICKS: they're coming. they're in the tunnel. 
HICKS: guns a and b. tracking and firing on multiple targets.
HUDSON: they must be wall to wall in there. look at those ammo counters go. it's a shooting gallery down there.

HICKS: b gun's dry. twenty on a. ten. five. that's it. 
RIPLEY: they're at the fire door. the booming increases in volume and ferocity.
HUDSON: man, listen to that.
BISHOP: bishop here. i'm afraid i have some bad news.
HUDSON: well, that's a switch.

BISHOP: that's it. see it? emergency venting. 
RIPLEY: how long until it blows?
BISHOP: i'm projecting total systems failure in a little under four hours. the blast radius will be about thirty kilometers. about equal to ten megatons.
HICKS: we got problems.
HUDSON: i don't believe this.
RIPLEY: and it's too late to shut it down?
BISHOP: i'm afraid so. the crash did too much damage. the overload is inevitable, at this point.
HUDSON: oh, man. and i was gettin' short, too! four more weeks and out. now i'm gonna buy it on this rock. it ain't half fair, man!
VASQUEZ: hudson, give us a break.
RIPLEY: we need the other drop-ship. the on one the sulaco. we have to bring it down on remote, somehow.
HUDSON: how? the transmitter was on the apc. it's wasted.
RIPLEY: i don't care how! think of a way. think of something.
HUDSON: think of what? we're
RIPLEY: what about the colony transmitter? that up-link tower down at the other end. why can't we use that?
BISHOP: i checked. the hard wiring between here and there was severed in the fighting.
RIPLEY: well then somebody's just going to have to go out there. take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually.
HUDSON: oh, right! right! with those things running around. no way.
BISHOP: i'll go.
RIPLEY: what?
BISHOP: i'm really the only one qualified to remote-pilot the ship anyway. believe me, i'd prefer not to. i may be synthetic but i'm not stupid.
RIPLEY: all right. let's get on it. what'll you need?
VASQUEZ: listen. it's stopped.
HICKS: well, they're into the complex.

BISHOP: this duct runs almost to the up-link assembly. one hundred eighty meters. say, forty minutes to crawl down there. one hour to patch in and align the antenna. thirty minutes to prep the ship, then about fifty minutes flight time. 
RIPLEY: it's going to be closer. you better get going.
BISHOP: see you soon.

HICKS: they're in the approach corridor. 
RIPLEY: on my way.

HICKS: twenty meters and closing. fifteen. c and d guns down about fifty percent. 
RIPLEY: now many?
HICKS: can't tell. lots. d gun's down to twenty. ten. it's out.
RIPLEY: they retreated. the guns stopped them.
HICKS: yeah. but look...
HICKS: newt time then can walk right up and knock.
RIPLEY: but they don't know that. they're probably looking for other ways to get in. that'll take them awhile.
HUDSON: maybe we got 'em demoralized.
HICKS: i want you two walking the perimeter. i know we're all in strung out shape but stay frosty and alert. we've got to stop any entries before they get out of hand. the two troopers nod and head for the corridor. ripley sighs and picks up a cup of cold coffee, draining it in one gulp.
HICKS: how long since you slept? twenty-four hours?
RIPLEY: they'll get us.
HICKS: maybe. maybe not.
RIPLEY: hicks, i'm not going to wind up like those others. you'll take care of it won't you, it if comes to that?
HICKS: if it comes to that, i'll do us both. let's see that it doesn't here, i'd like to introduce you to a close personal friend of mine.
HICKS: m-41a 10mm pulse-rifle, over and under with a 30mm pump-action grenade launcher.
RIPLEY: what do i do?

HICKS: just pull it in real right. it will kick some. when the counter here heads zero, hit this... 
HICKS: just let it drop right out. get the other one in quick. just slap it in hard, it likes abuse.

HICKS: you're ready again. 
RIPLEY: what's this?
HICKS: well, that's the grenade launcher ...you probably don't want to mess with that.
RIPLEY: look, you started this. now show me everything. i can handle myself.
HICKS: yeah. i've noticed.

RIPLEY: how do you feel? 
GORMAN: all right, i guess. one of a hangover. look, ripley...

RIPLEY: forget it. 
GORMAN: you still want to kill me?
VASQUEZ: it won't be necessary.

RIPLEY: there, there. sssshh. it's all right. 
BISHOP: now, if i did it right...

RIPLEY: newt. newt, wake up. 
NEWT: wah...? where are...?

RIPLEY: hey...hey! 
RIPLEY: hicks! hicks!

HICKS: roger. check back when you've activated the ship. he's at the up-link tower. 
BURKE: excellent.

NEWT: mommy...mommmyyyyy... 
NEWT: mommy...i mean, ripley...i'm scared.
RIPLEY: i know, honey. me too.

HICKS: vasquez, hudson, meet me in medical! we got a fire! 
HICKS: the corner! ready?
HUDSON: do it!
RIPLEY: burke...it was burke.

HICKS: i don't get it. it doesn't make any sense. ripley stands in front of burke, every fiber of her being accusing him with absolute outrage. burke tries to break ripley's stare, which is like a diamond drill. he can't. 
RIPLEY: he wanted an alien, only he couldn't get it back through
HICKS: wait a minute. we'd know about it.
RIPLEY: the only way it would work is if he sabotaged certain freezers on the trip back. then he could jettison the bodies and make up any story he liked.
HUDSON: fuuuck! he's dead. you're dogmeat, pal.
BURKE: this is total paranoid delusion.
RIPLEY: you know, burke, i don't know which species is worse. you don't see them each other over for a percentage.
HICKS: let's waste him. no offense.
RIPLEY: just find someplace to lock him up until it's time to --
RIPLEY: they cut the power.
HUDSON: what do you mean, they cut the power? how could they cut the power, man? they're animals.
RIPLEY: newt! stay close. let's get some trackers going. come on, get moving. gorman, watch burke.

RIPLEY: anything? 
HUDSON: there's something.
HUDSON: it's inside the complex.
VASQUEZ: you're just reading me.
HUDSON: no. no! it ain't you. they're inside. inside the perimeter.
RIPLEY: hudson, stay cool. vasquez?
VASQUEZ: hudson may be right.
HICKS: it's game time.
RIPLEY: get back here, both of you. fall back to operations.

HUDSON: this signal's weird...must be some interference or something. there's movement all over the place... 
RIPLEY: just get back here!

HUDSON: movement! signal's clean. 
HUDSON: range twenty meters.
RIPLEY: seal the door.
HUDSON: seventeen meters.
HICKS: let's get these things lit.
RIPLEY: they learned. they cut the power and avoided the guns. they must have found another way in, something we missed.
HICKS: we didn't miss anything.
HUDSON: fifteen meters.
RIPLEY: i don't know, an acid hole in a duct. something under the floors, not on the plans. i don't know!
HUDSON: twelve meters. man, this is a big signal. ten meters.
RIPLEY: they're right on us. vasquez, how you doing?
HUDSON: nine meters. eight.
RIPLEY: can't be. that's inside the room!
HUDSON: it's readin' right. look!
HICKS: well you're not reading it right!
HUDSON: six meters. five. what the fu --

RIPLEY: burke! open the door! 
NEWT: look!

HUDSON: let's go! let's go! 
HICKS: a!

HICKS: hold you fire! 
RIPLEY: locked.
HICKS: stand back.
GORMAN: you can't use those in here!
VASQUEZ: right. fire in the hole!
HICKS: thanks a lot! now i can't hear
VASQUEZ: what?

NEWT: come on! this way. 
RIPLEY: stay behind me.
NEWT: come on. crawl faster.
RIPLEY: do you know how to get to the landing field from here?
NEWT: sure. go left.
NEWT: go right.
BISHOP: yes, i read you. not very well...

HICKS: all right, stand by there. we're on out way. over. 
RIPLEY: back. go back!

NEWT: this way. come on, we're almost there! 
RIPLEY: newt, wait!
NEWT: here! go up.

NEWT: just up there -- 
NEWT: riiiiipppleee --
RIPLEY: newt!
NEWT: moooommeeee...
RIPLEY: hicks, get down here. i need that locator.

HICKS: this way. we're close... 
NEWT: here! i'm here. i'm here.
RIPLEY: climb down, honey. we have to cut through this grate.

RIPLEY: newt! newt! 
RIPLEY: no! noooo!
HICKS: she's gone! let's go!
RIPLEY: no! no! she's alive! we have to --
HICKS: all right! she's alive. i
RIPLEY: come on, you can make it.

BISHOP: ripley... 
RIPLEY: she's alive. they brought her here and you know it.
BISHOP: in seventeen minutes this place will be a cloud of vapor the size of nebraska.
RIPLEY: hicks, don't let him leave.
HICKS: we ain't going anywhere.
RIPLEY: see you, hicks.
HICKS: dwayne. it's dwayne.
RIPLEY: ellen.
HICKS: don't be long, ellen.

BURKE: ripley...help me. i can feel it...inside. oh, god...it's moving! oh gooood... 
RIPLEY: here.
VOICE: you now have eleven minutes to reach minimum safe distance.

NEWT: i knew you'd come. 
RIPLEY: newt, i want you to hang on, now. hang on tight.

RIPLEY: close your eyes, baby. 
VOICE: you now have thirty seconds to reach...

BISHOP: i gave him a shot, for the pain. we'll need to get a stretcher to cart him up to medical. 
BISHOP: i'm sorry if i gave you a scare but that platform was just becoming too unstable...
BISHOP: i had to circle and hope things didn't get too rough to take you off.
RIPLEY: you did okay, bishop.
BISHOP: well, thanks, i --
RIPLEY: go!
RIPLEY: here!

RIPLEY: get away from her, you 
RIPLEY: come on!

BISHOP: not bad for a human. he winks. 
NEWT: mommy...mommy?
RIPLEY: right here, baby. right here.

NEWT: are we going to sleep now? 
RIPLEY: that's right.
NEWT: can we dream?
RIPLEY: yes, honey. i think we both can.

