speaker1: just go on talking, like nothing was happening, okay? 
speaker2: sal's absolutely unmoved face.
speaker3: jackie moves over to sonny.
speaker4: sonny, i'm gettin' real bad vibes.
speaker5: jackie - what are you talking about?
speaker4: maybe we can take something smaller... like a spanish grocery.
speaker5: it's too late - just get away from me - don't talk to me now - go over to your place...

speaker1: glancing at clock, taking a sharp deep breath... 
speaker2: staring at mulvaney.
speaker3: the ruins of his smile still on his face.

speaker1: sorry, this window is shut... 
speaker2: as mulvaney stands and yells to sylvia...

speaker1: okay, okay... we know it's a stickup! 
speaker2: if he moves - blow his guts out...

speaker1: i'm sorry, sonny... i can't make it... 
speaker2: hey, for christ's sake... now... asshole... he can't make it.
speaker3: him - let him out!
speaker2: hey... let him out!

speaker1: hey, don't take the car! 
speaker2: well, how'll i get home?
speaker1: take the subway. we need the car. hey, gimme the keys - the keys!
speaker2: sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there... i'm sorry...
speaker1: it's okay... it's okay...
speaker1: lock it.
speaker1: hey... get outta there! nobody's gonna hurt you.
speaker1: pull the drapes.
speaker1: pulla drapes!

speaker1: okay, is the vault open? 
speaker2: i can take care of that.

speaker1: son of a 
speaker1: what the you tryin' to do? trip the alarm? use the spur key? use the other one...

speaker1: i must of been outta my mind. 
speaker2: well, you get your mind right. i'm a catholic and i don't wanna hurt nobody, but it, don't you play no games with me. unnastand?!? mulvaney nods and picks out a key that is identical except for the spur. he shows it to sonny. sonny nods.

speaker1: okay. let's get you on your way. miriam - open the safe. 
speaker2: what's the matter with you?
speaker1: come on, lemme load you up...
speaker3: there isn't any money...
speaker3: they picked it up this afternoon...
speaker2: no money?!
speaker3: there's only about four thousand in singles, and maybe a few hundred in larger bills... he's going to kill us!

speaker1: this is it? what am i gonna do with this? holy 
speaker2: it's all we got.
speaker1: okay, don't worry about it. stick it in the bag...
speaker1: ah, jesus...
speaker3: let's go, sonny.
speaker1: what are you crying for? christ. it's not your fault there's no money...
speaker2: she's afraid you're gonna shoot...
speaker1: what the would i shoot her for?

speaker1: answer the phone! 
speaker1: okay... open this.
speaker1: okay, who's the head teller here?
speaker2: i am.
speaker1: open this up!
speaker1: don't take it all out!

speaker1: decoy money, right, it's marked! 
speaker1: 'this window is shut...'
speaker2: cheer up, you'll be the veteran of a robbery, the bank sends you a dozen red roses, you know that?
speaker1: hey, you, manager... don't get any ideas, fucker... see that man there?
speaker3: believe me, i'm on your side.
speaker1: my side,
speaker4: listen, we got young girls here... you could watch your language.
speaker1: i speak what i feel.

speaker1: gimme the traveler's checks and the register. 
speaker1: please... quit that. it's not necessary.
speaker2: can you hurry it up?

speaker1: hey, you! give me the keys... 
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: howard?
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: howard, give him the keys...
speaker1: gimme the keys to get outta here!

speaker1: sal... 
speaker1: take it easy... just gimme the keys. i'm not gonna hurt you. listen, calm down, huh? you're gonna have a heart attack. just gimme the keys... that's all i want.
speaker2: sonny... who's that? across the street.

speaker1: i'll get some water! 
speaker2: nobody move! freeze!

speaker1: get rid of him. 
speaker2: howard, wave him off. tell him we're closed. whatever...

speaker1: the gun's right on your back... 
speaker2: give me the keys...

speaker1: what is it, sam? 
speaker2: everything's all right? you okay?
speaker1: yeah, just a cigarette got in a wastebasket.
speaker2: you all right?
speaker1: little smoke: like a polish four- alarm fire, is all.
speaker2: yeah. well, you're okay?
speaker1: yeah, thanks for keeping an eye out.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: thanks again, sam.
speaker2: i'm glad it's okay.
speaker1: it's okay. [regards to the family, sam.]
speaker1: for sake, will you please go now? we gave you every nickel we got.
speaker3: you're goin' outside with me. if there's no cops around, we just split. otherwise, you go with us.
speaker3: answer it.

speaker1: he's gone? 
speaker2: yeah - it's all right... let's go.

speaker1: sal, get 'em in the vault. 
speaker2: where's the money?
speaker1: get 'em in the vault!
speaker3: what property is that, mrs. anterio? the third avenue property - you already got a second mortgage on. we discussed it before...

speaker1: you won't close the vault? how can we breathe? 
speaker2: no, that's okay... just close the gate...
speaker3: listen, i'll never make it. i'll have to go to the toilet.
speaker2: what's the matter... they never housebroke you?
speaker3: it's not a joke. i got this terrible fear of being locked in...
speaker4: women...
speaker2: ah okay... go ahead. anybody else have to go?
speaker5: me, too, please.
speaker4: you see... now they all gotta go.
speaker2: wait a minute - i want to check.

speaker1: oh - maria! 
speaker2: who the is that? it! what the...
speaker2: what are you trying to pull?
speaker1: i forgot she's in here.
speaker2: come on, nobody's going to the bathroom - come on...
speaker3: it's for you.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: what are you doin' in there?
speaker1: who's this?
speaker2: this is detective sergeant moretti, asshole, we got you completely by the balls. you don't believe me, i'm lookin' you right in the eye.
speaker3: who is it?

speaker1: okay? let's be reasonable and not stupid and not get anybody hurt. you come to the front door with hands folded on your head, unnastand? nobody's gonna shoot or... 
speaker2: it's the cops.
speaker3: how'd that happen?
speaker4: i swear to on my salary, i'm not gonna be any hero...
speaker2: i took too long.
speaker3: it was the fire, asshole!
speaker4: i told you, just go, get out when you could, but no, you just got to hang around.
speaker2: oh, i gotta have time to think.
speaker5: what is it? did you just barge in here... he doesn't have plan. it's all a whim. 'rob a bank! what not?'
speaker2: ...just give me time to think...

speaker1: we're all in the barrel together... 
speaker2: all right, bastards! you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time. you got that?

speaker1: i just called to ask jenny what time she's gonna get off. 
speaker2: who's this?
speaker3: it's her husband.
speaker2: is there a jenny here?
speaker2: it's your husband.
speaker4: what do i say?
speaker2: tell him the truth! tell him whatever you tell him!

speaker1: what a comedy! wnew plays all the hits. 
speaker2: listen, first off, is anybody hurt in there?
speaker1: ...but you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time... you got it? okay?
speaker3: you mean that?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: ...the bodies out the door.
speaker1: i want him to think that.
speaker3: but do you mean it?
speaker4: he wants to know what time you think you'll be through.

speaker1: tell him i don't know. 
speaker1: where's the back door?
speaker2: it's locked on the inside. it's through that passageway and to the right.
speaker3: jenny?
speaker4: he says he doesn't know. why don't you cook whatever's there?
speaker3: it looks like a whole roast.
speaker4: honey, send out for kentucky fried chicken. the baby, just open a bottle of prunes, and one of the beef. the bottles are in the fridge.
speaker2: hurry up!
speaker3: i know how to fix the bottle. they got guns?
speaker4: what guns?
speaker3: the robbers in the bank. they got guns?
speaker4: yeah. a lot of guns.
speaker3: well, stay away from them. don't get close.
speaker4: oh, yeah, i will...
speaker1: hey, jenny - let's go...
speaker4: hon? i got to go.
speaker3: i love you.
speaker4: yeah. well, i got to go now... a beat of silence. realizes she can't talk...
speaker3: i'll kiss the baby for you.
speaker4: i love you.

speaker1: sal, i'm sorry about this. but we can get outta this thing. there's a way outta this. 
speaker2: are you serious? about throwin' a body outta here if we have to?
speaker1: well, i stalled him for a while. when it comes the time, then we'll work it out. okay?
speaker2: but do you mean it?... but you just told him that if worse comes to worse...
speaker1: i want him to think that.
speaker2: but i want to know what you think.
speaker1: we won't have to.
speaker2: i'll tell you right now - that i'm ready to do it.
speaker1: what i want to say is... everything's gonna be all right... if we all cooperate and we don't, you know... carry on... i don't know you and you don't know me... and what i'm tryin' to tell you is that if you stay cooled out, we can work this thing out and nobody's going to get hurt... believe me, i don't want to hurt anybody... everybody is going to have a chance to do what they have to do... she's gotta go to the bathroom - so you go - and you can go after... everybody's gonna get a chance... everybody's gonna get a chance to use the phone... let's just take it a step at a time.
speaker1: now, you -- what's your name?
speaker3: mulvaney...
speaker1: you and me are checking the other ways in and out.

speaker1: let's go to the back door. how'd that guy get to be a guard? 
speaker2: well, they go to guard school.
speaker1: to what... learn how to shoot?
speaker2: they make $105 a week to start. they fold the flag, check the place out in the morning. i don't know what they learn, sonny.
speaker2: here we are... the back door.
speaker1: they could shoot the lock... i want to block it, so if they try comin' here, we're gonna hear it. here, you pull on that side.
speaker1: you got kids?
speaker2: i got two kids... and i'd like to see them again.
speaker1: ah, i know! you're being very cooperative. i got no complaint against you whatever; you got bank insurance?
speaker2: you know i do. you seem to know a lot about bank procedure.
speaker1: don't ask me questions. i got connections. you find out who i am, you're cold meat.
speaker2: i don't care who you are... i just want to get you outta here, safe, right?
speaker1: what if i take you with me?
speaker2: if you take anybody, please take me.
speaker1: they'll shoot you; the cops'll shoot you... they don't give a in spite of that bank insurance. you see what they did in attica, they shot everybody, the hostages, prisoners, cops, guards, forty-two people they killed, the innocent with the guilty.
speaker1: anyway, i'm not gonna take you. i'm gonna take one of the girls, a married one with a couple of kids. the cops don't like it in the papers when they kill a mother, especially if she's got young kids.
speaker1: you're just a nice guy, mr. mulvaney. only don't around with me, you know what i mean?
speaker2: i don't fool around with you.

speaker1: here comes the fbi. you men lookin' for protection? we got all the police right here. 
speaker2: why didn't you just wait and try to take 'em out there in the street?
speaker1: i made an error in judgment. i thought the sons of would be overwhelmed with remorse at the sight of a police officer. and you know somethin'? nobody has said hostage yet. unnastan?

speaker1: how many in the bank? have they got hostages? any shots exchanged? 
speaker2: no, we don't know that yet. this young fella without the hat is fbi. i'm detective sergeant eugene moretti ... m-o-r-e-double-t-i. eugene. i don't give a but my wife cries if you spell it wrong.

speaker1: ...no, just get hold of al, tell him to get the catering truck over to 26th and avenue b, there's a bank robbery in progress and big crowd. big! tell him to bring ice cream -- i got to hang up. 
speaker2: you get the phone company?
speaker3: it's being set up... this phone'll be a direct line into the bank.

speaker1: okay, you're in there and we're out here. what do we do now? 
speaker2: i told you -- keep away. i don't know what we do now.
speaker1: awright, but i wanna talk to you. first off, we wanna know if the people in the bank are okay.
speaker2: they're okay.
speaker1: you alone, or you got confederates?
speaker2: i'm not alone.
speaker1: how many you got in there?
speaker2: i got sal.
speaker1: sal? what's that for? salvatore?
speaker2: sal. he's the killer. we're vietnam veterans so killing don't mean anything to us, you understand?
speaker1: right -- got ya. okay, so there's you -- what's your name?
speaker2: what do you want to know that for?
speaker1: give me a name, any name, just so i got somethin' to call you.
speaker2: call me sonny-boy.
speaker1: sonny-boy, one word?
speaker2: one word. you won't find it in the phone book.
speaker1: listen, sonny... can i call you sonny for short?
speaker2: call me whatever you want.
speaker1: okay, sonny, i want to see if the people in the bank are okay, then what i want to do is work out a way to get them out of there. i want to come over there, without a gun... and you can frisk me. so you can see you can trust me. so we can talk and find a way outta this mess.
speaker2: i frisk you?
speaker1: you frisk me.
speaker2: right -- i'm with you, buddy.
speaker1: i'd like just some sign i can trust you too, sonny. i don't want to trust my body out where you could just shoot me. some sight... right?
speaker2: sure... like... i'm not gonna shoot you.
speaker1: how about letting the people out of the bank. why put them in this position?
speaker2: they're what's keeping me alive. you think you're dealing with an idiot? talk to me then.
speaker1: okay, give us the women.
speaker2: oh, no... women is all we got.
speaker1: you're all one way! i'm bein' reasonable with you; give me somethin'... give me one of them, anyway... just one...
speaker2: so -- you want me to send one out there... okay. i'll see what i can do.
speaker2: he wants one.
speaker3: dead or alive?
speaker2: alive.
speaker2: okay... who's gonna go first?
speaker4: it's up to you ladies.
speaker5: howard!
speaker2: to show that we're negotiating.
speaker3: all right... send them the guard.
speaker2: all right... let's go.
speaker3: cover her, sonny.
speaker5: he needs the keys.
speaker3: only one, sonny.
speaker5: go along, howard.

speaker1: to cops. 
speaker1: get him outta here!

speaker1: sonny - come out here a minute. 
speaker2: you got these cops outta here.
speaker1: come on. i want you to see something.
speaker2: you want me to give up, huh? look, sal's in back with the girls. anything happens to me - one move - and sal gives it to them. boom boom. how do i know you won't jump me?
speaker1: i don't forget about sal and the boom boom room. i want you to see this.
speaker3: out in the light. hey, lady! you're on tv, lady! smile, any... thing...

speaker1: let sal come out, take a look. what hope you got? quit while you're ahead. all you got is attempted robbery. 
speaker2: ...armed robbery...
speaker1: well, armed, then. nobody's been hurt. release the hostages, nobody is gonna worry over kidnapping charges, the worst you're gonna get is five years -- you can be out in a year.
speaker2: kiss me.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: when i'm bein' fucked, i like to be kissed a lot. who the are you tryin' to con me into some deal? you're a city cop, where's the fbi? this is a federal offense, i got kidnapping, armed robbery, they're gonna bury me! you know it, you can't talk for them, you're some flunky pig tryin' to me. now it, get somebody in charge here to talk to me!
speaker1: calm down, you're not...
speaker2: calm down... look at this, look at him...!
speaker1: all right - put the guns down!

speaker1: oh, my in heaven! 
speaker2: ...the robber, whose identity is not known, came out of the bank, with a hostage, mrs. sylvia ball...
speaker3: did i tell you? he looks good!

speaker1: what's he doin' this for? he didn't tell me he needed money. he would of told me. 
speaker2: ...mrs. ball, is everyone all right in the bank?
speaker3: why rob a bank when you got a sucker for a mother?
speaker4: oh, yeah, the one girl was cryin', but we're havin' a ball, so far, if just nobody shoots...
speaker1: why didn't he tell me?
speaker5: what about the man inside the bank?
speaker3: i just hope he gives the wrong name.
speaker4: sal? he never talks, only goes: 'sonny, you want me to shoot that one, this one.'
speaker3: is that all there is -- that little down there in the bank?
speaker2: mrs. ball, do you think they might shoot, if they get desperate?
speaker1: you got money for the subway?
speaker4: hey, wait, he's goin' back in.

speaker1: subway! it's a special occasion -- take a cab, for sake! 
speaker2: sonny returning toward bank.

speaker1: i gotta go now. 
speaker2: hey, lady... you're out now. stay out!
speaker1: they're my girls. they need me in there.
speaker3: as sonny turns to grin and wave back at crowd.

speaker1: hey, girls -- i was on television... 
speaker2: what about howard?
speaker3: turn on the tv.
speaker4: what happened?

speaker1: the whole media is out there... it looks a lot better for us than it did before... 
speaker2: we can see the robbers inside the bank, and we're trying now to establish contact.

speaker1: we're on the telephone to the bank manager, patrick j. mulvaney... mister mulvaney... 
speaker2: yes, i can hear you.
speaker3: serious, nodding to sal.
speaker1: can you put the robber on the phone?
speaker2: you wanna talk to him... sonny...

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: the tv... they want to talk to you...
speaker1: yeah? who's this?
speaker3: sir, you're on the air. i wonder if you'd answer a few questions.
speaker1: hey, sal... sure.
speaker4: why are you doing this?
speaker1: doing what?
speaker4: robbing a bank.
speaker1: i don't know... it's where they got the money. i mean, if you want to steal, you go to where they got the money, right?
speaker4: but i mean, why do you need to steal? couldn't you get a job?
speaker1: get a job doing what? you gotta be a member of a union, no union card - no job. to join the union, you gotta get the job, but you don't get the job without the card.
speaker4: what about, ah, non-union occupations?
speaker1: like what? bank teller? what do they get paid - they pay one hundred thirty-five dollars and thirty-seven cents to start. i got a wife and kids. i can't live on that -- you want to live on that? what do you make a week?
speaker4: i'm here to talk to you, sonny, not...
speaker1: wait a minute... i'm talkin' to you. i'm askin' you a question...
speaker4: the audience is interested in you, sonny... not me.
speaker1: yeah! we're hot entertainment, right? you got me and sal on tv... we're entertainment you sell, right?
speaker4: you're news, sonny...
speaker1: how much you have to pay an entertainer to fill this slot?
speaker4: newsman, not...
speaker1: okay, newsman. how much you make a week? you're not talkin'. you payin' me? what have you got for me? we're givin' you entertainment... what are you givin' us?
speaker4: what do you want us to give you?
speaker1: i don't want to be paid. i'm here with sal and eight other people... and we're dyin'! they're gonna blow our guts out, man! you're gonna see our brains onna sidewalk! how's that for all you shut-ins and housewives to look at! you gonna help, or you just put it on instead of as the world turns? we're dyin' here! what have you got for me?
speaker4: you could give up.
speaker1: oh yeah? give up? you ever been in prison?
speaker4: of course not...
speaker1: then talk about somethin' you know about...
speaker5: ladies and gentlemen, our transmission has been temporarily interrupted. please stand by.
speaker1: why the did he do that? what the did i do?
speaker2: i guess he didn't appreciate your use of language. they don't speak that way on television. it's a rule. do you realize you've cut off a valuable source of communication?
speaker1: okay, sal... what do we do?
speaker1: i figure maybe we can get the fbi to make a deal...
speaker6: what kind of a deal?
speaker1: maybe we can get outta this thing alive... get 'em to drop the kidnapping charges...
speaker6: what do you mean? you talkin' about coppin a plea?
speaker6: ...because if you're talking about coppin' a plea, i'm tellin' you right now, there's no deal... i'm never going back to prison... we got our own deal already... do you remember the pact we made? you and me and jackie - that night in the bar... we were talkin' about if we get trapped in the bank, what are you gonna do... right? what did we say? what did we say!
speaker1: we'd kill ourselves.
speaker6: does that still go?

speaker1: you're on the phone! 
speaker2: kill them all. now.
speaker1: kill them all now? you creep! don't call here again!
speaker1: you see what we're dealing with?
speaker3: what now, sonny?
speaker1: wait a minute... i've been looking at this all wrong... let's look at it the other way...
speaker1: look, we gotta get a jet outta here... outta the country. we gotta get a helicopter. okay, sal? we get a helicopter on the roof to take us to the jet and we fly to the sunny caribbean. algeria. we got to look at the bright side. we got 'em by the balls, we got the hostages, we can get anything we want. they gotta give it to us.
speaker1: get me moretti.
speaker1: we're all gonna get outta here. you're all gonna be all right. i'm gonna ask for a helicopter and a jet... and we're gonna get outta here alive... you've all been all right with me and as long as it stays that way, then things are gonna be all right - as long as you cooperate... moretti, i want to talk to you. i'm comin' out.
speaker1: you realize, sal, that we're gonna get outta the country, so if you wanna talk to somebody, do it now... you gotta mother or a father? friends? if we gotta be outside the country, where do you wanna go? any country.
speaker4: wyoming.
speaker1: wyoming... that's not out of the country -- that's in the united states... look, i'll be back.
speaker4: sonny! gimme the gun. you don't need that.

speaker1: put them down. 
speaker2: sonny, ya want somethin'?

speaker1: who the is that? 
speaker2: mulvaney stands in the door...
speaker1: hey! what the you tryin' to do? you don't think the whole police department can do the job?
speaker3: i think he's got maria in there, and i see blood, man! i wanta jam him up...
speaker1: the spanish! you gotta do it yourself, right? eye for an eye! go wan get outa here, we'll take care of her. you okay, sonny? boy, he hung a couple good ones on you there!
speaker4: sal wants to see sonny. he says he'll shoot unless he can see sonny.
speaker5: it's okay, sal.
speaker5: he wanted to kill me!
speaker1: it's okay, you got a lot of protection.

speaker1: i want a helicopter to get outa here! and a jet to take us to... ...wherever we want to go. outa the country, so no little jets. a big one with a bar and a piano lounge. 
speaker2: i don't know, sonny. i don't know if the helicopters can land in here. i'll have to check it out. i got superiors, unnerstan? they don't always see eye to eye with me. i'll do what i can.
speaker2: sonny, be reasonable!
speaker1: i want to see my wife. i want you to bring her down here.
speaker2: okay, what do you give me?
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: the girl hostages.
speaker1: nothin' doin'. i give you one hostage when you bring my wife, and one for the helicopter, one for the jet, and the rest can come home on the jet.
speaker2: i'll see what they'll do.
speaker2: okay, you pick out who you're gonna give us. where's your wife?

speaker1: ...the leader of the pair, a vietnam veteran, sonny abramowicz, has demanded in return for releasing one of the hostages that police allow his wife to visit him at the bank. police spokesman... 
speaker2: the transistor goes sonny what? i couldn't believe my ears, so i shut the transistor, get outta here, who needs this? i say sonny didn't do it. it's not him to rob a bank. it's not him to hurt anybody, to threaten anybody, to steal or do anything wrong. 'cause he's never done nothin' wrong from the day i know him.

speaker1: and things are adding in my head, how crazy he's been acting, and in with a bad crowd, an' i look at him, he's yellin' at the kids like a madman. so inna car i said to him, sonny, what you gonna do with the gun? you gonna shoot me and dump my body inna river or what? i was so scared of him, i never been scared of sonny never. you know, his mother says the cops was always at our house, we was always fighting. i hit him with the jack in the car once, but i only missed and hit myself, you should of seen my leg. and all he would ever do is put on his coat and go out. so they say it's sonny but i don't believe it. 
speaker2: lady, you saw him. you saw his gun.
speaker1: he might of done it, his body functions might of done it, but not he himself.
speaker3: let's say i put a gun to your head and i tell you to kill a cop... and you did. who'd go to the electric chair... you or me?
speaker4: you would... you told me to do it.
speaker3: but you shot him.
speaker5: but you told her to.
speaker3: yeah - but you did it.

speaker1: christ is coming back and he's really pissed. 
speaker2: yeah, well i don't blame him.
speaker1: you know, sonny, i used to dope a lot, and i was into dipping? and i did a couple bank jobs, and the lord in his everlasting mercy saved me, you know how?
speaker2: no. look, we're kind of....
speaker1: that's why i can talk to you, as an equal, sonny. you got to merge your whole soul with and then you are him and one with the holy ghost.
speaker2: yeah, well... maybe you better talk to one of these others, okay?
speaker1: sonny? don't send me away! i can help you save your soul ...

speaker1: the air conditioning is off or something. she's sick. 
speaker2: where's the air conditioning?
speaker3: i don't know, sonny... on the roof somewhere i guess.
speaker2: sonny moves toward sal in the conference room. mulvaney follows discreetly behind him.
speaker2: sal, i'm gonna take a look at the air conditioning.
speaker2: do you think we can turn it on?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker4: sonny -
speaker2: yeah...
speaker4: i never been up in a plane before.
speaker2: it's nothing - it just goes up - it's the safest thing in the world. safer than a car. don't worry about it, sal - it'll be all right... they're great...

speaker1: it's gonna be up there. 
speaker2: what's that?

speaker1: they're trying to come through the door! 
speaker2: everybody! back here!

speaker1: it is okay. 
speaker2: what's happening? he shot through the door. is he coming out? can you see in...

speaker1: sonny! 
speaker2: sonny!
speaker1: sonny!
speaker3: sonny!
speaker4: sonny! you could hear it for a half a mile!
speaker5: what the you doin' back there?
speaker1: sonny, come on out! sonny walks over to sal, gives him the rifle.
speaker5: sal, watch 'em... i'm goin' out.
speaker5: what the do you want?
speaker1: they were...
speaker5: you tryin' to me?
speaker1: no, i'm not tryin' to you.
speaker5: so, what were they doin'? you're tellin' me you had nothin' to do with that back there?
speaker1: i swear to i had nothing to do with it...
speaker5: i don't walk to talk to you...
speaker1: wait a minute... everything you asked for is on the way...
speaker5: yeah...
speaker1: is on its way... the helicopter can't land but we got a bus... the jet's on its way to kennedy... we got a bus coming here...
speaker5: you're full of
speaker1: sonny, your wife's on the way... we reached her... your wife's on the way... everything you asked for, you got.
speaker5: well, what were you doin' back there?
speaker1: it can't happen again... i'll do everything i can to stop anything i can...
speaker5: you know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here...
speaker1: can't land... you'd kill people...
speaker5: don't with me...
speaker1: i'm not... i'm not... you're gettin' a bus... you're gettin' a bus... the jet's comin' into kennedy... and your wife's on the way... what else do you need? what else can i get you? listen, i don't know how you can do better... see that man over there... the fbi guy...
speaker5: just one more explosion like that and you're gonna see a dead body...
speaker1: there won't be... there won't be... what else do you need? how else can we help you?
speaker5: all right... i got some hungry people in there... i want to get some pizza... some stuff like that...
speaker1: what else?
speaker5: cokes, seven-ups... also some aspirin...
speaker1: aspirins... okay you got it. charlie! six pizzas!
speaker5: okay...

speaker1: okay... okay... all right, sal, it's okay. i got everything straightened out... it's gonna be okay. 
speaker2: get over there!
speaker1: look, i talked to him and it's not going to be a helicopter - they can't land on top of the roof - so they're comin' with a big... limousine bus and they'll take us to the airport - and they're gonna get a jet... so things are rollin'... they're movin'... i also ordered some food... i got some pizzas for us, all right? i got some things to drink - i got sodas... i even asked them for aspirins... i'm doin' what i can... now i gotta pay for the pizza... where are the marked bills?
speaker3: are we going to get the ball rolling?
speaker1: what are you talking about? what do you think i'm doin'? i'm gettin' the ball rollin'. i'm keeping these people happy... i'm keeping you happy... i gotta keep the cops cooled out... i gotta do everything... i gotta pay for the pizza .. i'm workin' on it, do you know what i mean? i'm workin' on it... christ! i gotta do it all... i got all the ideas... you want me to give you the gun? you want to take it over? sonny walks to the front door with the money.
speaker4: you the guy wanted the pizza?
speaker4: it's paid for.
speaker1: keep the change...
speaker5: hey, over here! hey, robber! how about a thousand! throw some over here! hey, no i need an operation, i don't even have a job...

speaker1: staring at the mess. 
speaker2: okay - chow!
speaker2: you eat it first. i don't know if they put something in it.

speaker1: gene -- you smilin'? 
speaker2: no. i never smile any more.
speaker1: whattaya think: we gonna kill any civilians tonight, gene?
speaker2: i never make bets or guesses, that way i'm never wrong and i never have to pay out.
speaker1: gene, what a bull he is!
speaker2: so whatsa deal?
speaker1: they jet's comin' out. but don't let 'em off the ground.
speaker2: what if we gotta kill a whole lot of people?
speaker1: don't let 'em off the ground.
speaker2: listen.

speaker1: if you're right i'm gonna back you a hundred percent, you know that. 
speaker2: you, sir - if i'm right, i don't need you. what i want is - if i make an honest mistake i want help.

speaker1: somebody give me a cigarette. 
speaker2: sylvia, you don't smoke.
speaker1: i never smoked before in my life but i got a right to start now if i want to.
speaker3: you don't smoke... why do you want to start now.
speaker1: because i'm scared, that's why.
speaker3: i used to, but i stopped.
speaker1: you stopped? why?
speaker3: because i don't want cancer.
speaker1: you don't want cancer? you're about to get your head blown off, you're worried about cancer. gimme the cigarette.
speaker3: no! i'm not kidding. don't you understand? you're pure!
speaker1: pure?
speaker3: you shouldn't start now.
speaker1: for sake! as soon as i'm outta this bank robbery, i'm gonna stop... okay?
speaker3: go ahead. do what you want to do. i hate to see you break a perfect record. you oughta take care of your body.
speaker1: my body? what for?
speaker3: your body is the temple of the lord.
speaker1: you're serious!
speaker3: you're really pure, you know? you got a perfect record. you never used that stuff to ruin your body, why start now?
speaker1: you know, you remind me of my 19- year-old brother - only he's got his hair down to his knees - he looks like something that eats berries and roots out of the ground. forbid i should say something to him like, 'listen, if you ever smoke marijuana, just remember that it's illegal' and he storms outta the house. you rob a bank, but you keep your body pure, is that it?
speaker3: you gonna smoke the cigarette?
speaker1: yes...
speaker1: sal... if i die of cancer it's going to be half your fault.
speaker4: mulvaney...
speaker5: i don't know.
speaker4: it's for you. moretti.
speaker6: yeah?
speaker7: we're bringing in your wife...

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: we went to the hospital, where he told us - and asked for his wife. he... ...says they got married in a church.
speaker1: 
speaker3: leon! happy birthday!

speaker1: moretti - he wants to talk to you. 
speaker2: is he all right? is he all right?
speaker3: he's all doped up.
speaker2: i want to talk to him.
speaker3: he's groggy, sonny. let me get him on his feet and he'll call you back.

speaker1: leon? whatsa matter? they give you a shot down the hospital or what? 
speaker2: oh, they shot me with like unreal!
speaker1: well, you got to get hold of yourself. you got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up.
speaker2: oh no!
speaker1: he's got eight people in there with him. he's got this kid with him... they're gonna shoot the people.
speaker2: i can't help it. i can't stop him from anything.
speaker1: if he won't listen to you, who will he listen to?
speaker2: he won't listen to anybody. he's been very crazy all summer. since june he's been trying to kill me.
speaker1: you try calling the police?
speaker2: what good is that? they couldn't stop him. and it'd just make him mad. they don't know him.
speaker1: somebody's got to stop him, leon.
speaker2: he was under great strain: you don't understand, he's a very mixed up person.
speaker1: he's makin' threats in there.
speaker2: he's scared. it's crazy. i never met anyone like him. his wife, he's a wonderful father to his children. his mother - you should see her - his mother and father together are like a bad car wreck - he lets it all slide off his back, he sees them, he pays their rent. unbelievable. i wanted to get married... he didn't really want it... he's married already! but he did it. i don't know why. i thought it would help me, but it didn't. i was just as confused and unhappy was before; i did terrible things.
speaker1: what kind of things, leon?
speaker2: ten days i spent in atlantic city - sonny was frantic - he knew i was drinking; he didn't know where i was... who i was with. i couldn't explain why i did the things i did. so i went to this psychiatrist who explained to me i was a woman in a man's body. so sonny right away wanted to get me money for a change operation: but where was he to get that? 2500 dollars! my he's in hock up to his ears already.
speaker1: he needed money? for the operation for you?
speaker2: it made him crazy - so much demand, he'd fly into this rages. and i got more depressed than ever; i saw i'd never get the operation. so i tried to take my life - i swallowed about a half pound of pills... blues, reds, yellows, downers, uppers, screamers... you name it. but i just threw them up and wound up in the hospital. sonny comes there and looks at me and just says: 'wow!' so when i hear he's in the bank, i almost go crazy because i know he's doin' it for me.
speaker1: well, don't you figure you owe to him to get him out of there?
speaker2: i can't talk to him.
speaker1: you're in it up to your ass, leon. you're an accessory. you talk him out of there and they might be a little more understanding of your case.
speaker2: i'm afraid.
speaker1: how is he gonna hurt you on the telephone?
speaker2: i don't know what to say to him. i can't.
speaker1: you think it over, leon.

speaker1: he won't talk to you. let me work on it. 
speaker2: ...police are questioning leon, a year-old admitted homosexual, who claims to have been married to one of the bank robbers in a ceremony last november... [etc.]...

speaker1: sonny, you hear that? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they keep sayin' two homosexuals. i'm not a homosexual. i want you to stop them saying that.
speaker2: that's all they're interested in - it's a freak show to them. i can't control it, sal - let'em say what they want. forget it. it don't matter.

speaker1: that's it, sonny. 
speaker2: sonny... sonny... come out a minute... come out a minute...
speaker3: we're all set at kennedy.
speaker2: what makes you think you'll be able to control it?
speaker3: he's totally unstable. he'll make a mistake.
speaker2: he hasn't so far. i'm the one who can make a mistake. that's what scares the out of me.
speaker3: eugene, at 3:07, this became federal. why don't i take it over now?

speaker1: moretti? what the is goin' on? 
speaker1: get the lights back on!

speaker1: what is this? the fbi? now we're talkin', maybe we can get this thing moving. 
speaker1: first off, get the lights back on and the air conditioning.
speaker2: no more favors. that's all over, sonny.
speaker1: aw, jesus... you been doin' us favors all night!
speaker2: i've got a jet. i'll have airport limousine here in a half hour. i want the hostages.
speaker1: 
speaker2: i'd like to work with you on this, not against you.
speaker1: well, these hostages are keeping me alive.
speaker2: okay, when do i get them?
speaker1: at the airport. we get on the plane, check it out, and if it's all okay we'll send them out. except one.
speaker2: i want them all.
speaker1: i want to talk to leon.
speaker2: i want to come in, and see if everybody's okay.
speaker1: you got guts. you think if sal and me have cut their throats we're gonna let you out?
speaker2: i have to see.
speaker1: it's the fbi. he wants to come in.
speaker3: have him walk in backwards.

speaker1: you'd like to kill me, too. 
speaker2: i wouldn't like to, but i will, if i have to.
speaker1: nothin' personal, huh? the man that kills me, i want him to do it because he hates my guts. not because it's a job. okay, let's go... but you gotta walk in backwards.

speaker1: nobody give their right name... it's the fbi! 
speaker2: i just want to see all you young ladies are all all right in here.
speaker3: she's pissed.
speaker4: listen, we asked for the jet hours ago, what are you doin' out there?
speaker2: it's all being set up, we'll have you out of here in a couple of hours.
speaker2: they're getting what they want. we just want to be sure we get what we want, which is to get all you ladies out safe. and you two boys, too.
speaker5: you got to talk to the tv, tell them to stop talking about the two homosexuals. i'm not gay... that's the truth. tell 'em that.
speaker2: i will. sonny? outside for a minute?
speaker1: sal?
speaker5: they gotta stop sayin' that.

speaker1: sonny, you handled yourself real well. a lot of men would have choked, and we'd have a lot of chaos and panic and maybe a death or a multiple death on our hands, but you handled it. i respect that. don't you try to take sal. we'll handle him. you just sit tight and you won't get hurt. 
speaker2: wait a minute! what the you tryin' to tell me?

speaker1: what'd he say? 
speaker2: he was talkin' about arrangements... we were talkin' about the tv.
speaker1: why couldn't he talk about that here?
speaker2: he was showin' me how the airport bus is comin' in, like that, sal. what's wrong with him?
speaker2: hey, you okay?
speaker3: he's got diabetes. he's not a well person.
speaker2: those -- they poisoned the pizza! sal - you didn't eat any pizza!?
speaker4: i didn't eat any pizza.
speaker3: i told you, he's got diabetes.
speaker2: you're supposed to balance your sugar diet, right?
speaker2: hey! is there a doctor over there? get him over here! come on, on the double!
speaker5: what's wrong?
speaker2: the manager, he's diabetic, he's lookin' bad.
speaker5: doctor...
speaker2: sal - the doctor's coming in.
speaker2: you go on in...
speaker5: i've convinced leon to talk to you. he's on the phone now.

speaker1: hello. hello, leon. 
speaker2: hello, sonny.
speaker1: how are you doing?
speaker2: well... i'm out of the hospital.
speaker1: yeah. you said... i thought you were never getting out?
speaker2: i never thought i'd get out this way. i'll tell you.
speaker1: well... huh...
speaker2: ooohh...
speaker1: oh... huh... how you feeling?
speaker2: i'm really shakey.
speaker1: well, you know... moretti told me before that you were drugged up.
speaker2: yeah. it was terrible.
speaker1: that... huh... they just shoot you with drugs.
speaker2: you come in and they say, right away, that you are crazy. and they start putting things in your arm... you know. how do they expect you to get uncrazy if you're asleep all the time?
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: you can't talk or do anything. you really feel... you know... i'm just sort of coming out of it now.
speaker1: so... that sure is something.
speaker2: yeah. so how are you?
speaker1: fine, thank you. i'm in trouble.
speaker2: yeah... i know.
speaker1: i don't know what i'm gonna do... you know. boy... i'm dying.
speaker2: what? what are you talking about? you are dying? did you ever listen to yourself when you say that?
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: what do you mean... what am i talking about? do you realize that you say that to me every day of your life? i am dying. do you know... do you realize the death that you are spreading around to the people who are around you?
speaker1: now don't give me that deep now. don't start with that
speaker2: no really... i don't think that you realize what it means. the things that you do, sonny. you put a gun to somebody's head...
speaker1: i don't know what i'm doing.
speaker2: yeah... obviously you don't... when you put a gun to somebody's head... and you say go to sleep so that it won't hurt when i pull the trigger. death? don't talk about death to me. i have been living with death for the last six months. why do you think i'm in the hospital? i take a handful of pills to get away from you. and then here i am out of the hospital talking to you on the phone... again. i have no friends left. no job. i can't live. i have to live with people. this death business... i'm sorry!
speaker1: i'm not on the phone to talk to you about that. well, i don't know what to say, leon. when you gimme that... when you hit me with that i mean, what am i supposed to say?
speaker2: i'm sorry...
speaker1: i told you. that i got a lot of pressures. you said to me that you needed money, and i knew that you needed money! i saw you there lying in the hospital like that... and i said... man, i got to get this guy some money.
speaker2: but i didn't ask you to go rob a bank.
speaker1: all right. i know you didn't ask me. you didn't ask me but i did it.
speaker2: well...
speaker1: i did it on my own. i did this all on my own. i ain't laying it on anybody. nothing on anybody. i'll tell you something, though, it's about time that i squared away my accounts... you know. i am squaring away my accounts with life. maybe this whole thing is gonna end, somehow. maybe it'll just end! maybe i'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. that would be all right too! i said... i thought i would square it away with you... you know? that i would get you down here and that i would say so long to you... or, if you wanted... you know, to take a trip...
speaker2: what trip?
speaker1: i'm getting out of here, man. i'm not going to stay here and i'm not giving up. i mean, huh, they're going to kill me, anyway. so it! but, if i can get out of this... i am going to get out. and, how i'm going to do it is to get a jet out of here and i'm flying the out... that's all, leon. if you want to come with me, then you're entitled... you can come. you're free to do what you want.
speaker2: i'm free to do what i want? and you think i would want to go with you some place on a plane? where?
speaker1: i gotta jet coming here and we're gonna try to get the outta this thing. and we're gonna go, man!
speaker2: you're crazy.
speaker1: that's it.
speaker2: you're really crazy.
speaker1: i know!
speaker2: where you gonna go?
speaker1: who the knows? i think we're gonna go... we worked it out to algeria. so, i don't know. so i'll go to algeria.
speaker2: why you going to algeria?
speaker1: huh... i don't know. they got howard johnson's there. i don't know why the i'm going there for.
speaker2: howard johnson's... you're warped.
speaker1: i know that. i'm warped... i'm warped!
speaker2: algeria! do you know there's a bunch of... they walk around there... people walk around with masks and things on their heads. they're a bunch of crazy people there.
speaker1: what am i supposed to do?
speaker2: i don't know... you could have picked a better place.
speaker1: denmark? sweden?
speaker2: i like that... yeah!
speaker1: sal wanted to go to wyoming. i told him it wasn't a country. we gotta get outta the country! to with a guy who doesn't know where wyoming is. okay. can you imagine what kind of a shape i'm in?
speaker2: so! sal is with you?
speaker1: sal? yeah... sal is with me.
speaker2: oh... wow! sonny, you're really into one mess now.
speaker1: i know i am. i know!
speaker2: sal... sal... naturale, oh boy!
speaker1: he ain't going out. and if i go out he's just gonna kill the people. there's a lot of lives that i'm responsible for... that's all. so, i can't do anything. i got myself into this mess and i'll get myself out of it... the best way i know how! one of the ways is not giving up. i'm telling ya!
speaker2: would you do something for me?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: these guys that got me down here, you know, huh... they think that i'm part of this whole thing. they think i'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
speaker1: how did they think that? what are they... crazy? what do you mean. that's bullshit, leon. they're giving you a fucken story.
speaker2: well... they told me that i was an accomplice...
speaker1: oh... they're fucken crazy. that's a snow job. don't listen to that
speaker2: i gotta listen to it if they think...
speaker1: 
speaker2: i can't survive in prison, sonny...
speaker1: all right. then what do you want me to say?
speaker2: sonny, would you please just tell them... please...
speaker1: where are they now? just tell me... are they on the phone now?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: that's great. just terrific. you talk to me with them on the phone, right? that is really smart. and, you don't tell me?
speaker2: i don't have a choice.
speaker1: you don't have a choice?
speaker2: no! they're standing all around me. seven thousand fucken cops... all around me.
speaker1: look... who's on the phone?
speaker2: look... don't throw that on me.
speaker1: who's on the phone, now? what do you mean... throw it on you? you knew it, right?
speaker2: yeah... i knew it. but, what choice do i have? i'm in the hospital; they drag me out of the hospital... bring me down here...
speaker1: all right, enough! who the is on the phone... anyway? is that you moretti? you on the phone? will somebody talk to me?
speaker2: they won't talk to you.
speaker1: are they on the phone still?
speaker2: yeah... yeah!
speaker1: all right! he didn't do it. all right? now... would you get the off the phone? i'll bet that really changed them, huh? anyway, leon... did i do it for you?
speaker2: yeah... huh, thank you. i'm going to go back, sonny, to the hospital. they're really nice people. they're really trying to help me.
speaker1: that's good then. you've found something.
speaker2: well... i don't know if i have or not.
speaker1: do you still want the operation?
speaker2: yeah... yeah.
speaker1: well, then...
speaker2: it's my only chance!
speaker1: i don't know what to say to ya! i guess i just wanted to say i'll see ya... or whatever.
speaker2: thank you much... and huh, bon voyage.
speaker1: right. see you sometime.
speaker2: yeah... see ya in my dreams, huh?
speaker1: yeah... i'll write a song. ha, ha.
speaker2: you said a mouthful... sweetheart!

speaker1: listen, it's late already when i realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and sal. i couldn't get a baby sitter. 
speaker2: listen - i think i better take him back for a cardiac check ...

speaker1: anything... what's wrong? is he gonna die? 
speaker2: no, i just think...
speaker3: i'm okay... i'm okay...
speaker1: you know more than the doctor? you're not okay, look at you. come on... ...let's get him out...
speaker3: i'm not going. i'm okay.
speaker1: hey! i'm tryin' to help you.
speaker3: i stay here. it. i just needed the insulin. i'm used to it.
speaker1: you tell me. is he endangering his health, because if you tell me he is, i'll get him out.
speaker3: i'll be if you will.
speaker1: oh, you want to be a martyr or a hero or what?
speaker3: i don't wanta be either, i just want to be left alone. you understand that? i wish the you never came in my bank, that's all, don't try to act like you're some angel of human kindness!
speaker1: here, my man. whattayou get for a house call?
speaker1: no, no! i want a top specialist for my friend, i expect to pay top money.

speaker1: my kids... kimmy and jimmy. 
speaker2: they're beautiful...
speaker1: i'll never see them again, mister mulvaney.
speaker3: they look like good kids.
speaker1: they're like any others but they're special to me. you got kids? you told me; you got two.
speaker3: special to me, too.
speaker1: you like me?
speaker3: sure - we like you.
speaker1: no you don't.
speaker3: you seem like a likable enough guy. it's hard to judge.
speaker1: hey, sal... how you doin'?
speaker4: okay.
speaker1: you know, i don't know him very well - but he's not gay... and he's not going back to prison... one time when he was in prison, they gang- banged him; 13 years old and eight guys gave it to him... so sal isn't goin' back to prison, no way.
speaker3: i'm sorry.
speaker1: you know... i like you people...
speaker3: we like you, too.
speaker1: you know - i had a job once. i used to work in a bank. i had been training... i used to have a boss... mr. don frio... he wore a toupee... i wonder if you'd hire me if i came in here and asked you for a job...
speaker3: would i hire you?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: why not?
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker1: i told you -- they're sending a jet. it's all worked out...

speaker1: i wish somebody would tell me i'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit. my parent, she'll be okay. my husband, he'll be okay. i even know who the is gonna marry. terrific. she'll take good care of him. 
speaker2: girls, i wanta apologize. for my language back there.
speaker2: ladies... i want to apologize for my language back there.
speaker1: what'd you say? i didn't hear you say anything.
speaker3: he said the 'f' word. they stare at her incredulously.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: the 'f' word. he did. he said the 'f' word.
speaker5: what's so funny?
speaker4: well, i'm a christian, and my ears are not garbage cans.
speaker6: who's that?
speaker7: as they all turn to look out through the door.

speaker1: sonny! could you come out, please? 
speaker2: it's my mother. who needs this

speaker1: what do you want here, ma? you could of watched it on tv. 
speaker2: my sonny - you oughtta see - - alla brooklyn is here! on all 3 networks!
speaker1: mom - i got it all worked out; it's over. the best thing is you go home. watch it on tv.
speaker2: i talked to the fbi, i told them about you, they said if you just come outta the bank it's gonna be okay.
speaker1: you did what? who did you talk to?
speaker2: well, i'm only trying to get you outta this. i told them you were in vietnam, you always had good jobs, you were with goldwater at the '64 convention, but you had marital problems...
speaker1: oh my mother!
speaker2: i said you were never a faggot.
speaker1: don't talk to them anymore. sal and me are getting a jet, we're going to algeria - i'll write you from there.
speaker2: he was very understanding - you ought to talk to him... algeria?
speaker1: we can't stay here.
speaker2: oh my i don't understand. if you needed money, why couldn't you come to me? everything i got is yours. i got two hundred and maybe twenty-five in the savings. it's yours. you know it.
speaker1: mom - they're sending a bus to take us to the airport. you understand? if you're here - they're not gonna send it. they'll think i'm gonna come out with you.
speaker2: what's wrong with that? the fbi was very understanding when i explained it to him. everybody knows it isn't you... it's the pressures from your home life.
speaker1: for sake don't start in on heidi again...
speaker2: did i say a thing against her? forbid i should say anything against that fat
speaker1: mom. mom. there are some things a mother shouldn't say in front of her son.
speaker2: if she comes down here, so help me i'm gonna mash her brains in. everything in your life was sunlight and roses until you met her. since then, forget it.
speaker1: she doesn't have anything to do with it! you understand that? mother? this is me!
speaker2: i know you wouldn't need leon if heidi was treating you right. the thing i don't understand is why you come out and sleep with heidi anyway? you got two kids on welfare now. what're you goin' to bed with her, you don't have enough with one wife and two kids on welfare, you want a wife and three kids on welfare?
speaker1: not now, mom, please.
speaker2: what'll you do? come out.
speaker1: i can't, mom. if i come out sal will kill them.
speaker2: oh. run.
speaker1: what the for? twenty-five years in the pen?
speaker2: maybe...
speaker1: maybe! aw christ, what dreams you live on! maybe what?
speaker1: i'm a fuckup and an outcast. there isn't one single person in my life i haven't hurt through my love. you understand that? i'm the most dangerous person in the world, because if i love you, watch out, you're gonna get fucked, over and out!
speaker2: no!
speaker1: did pop come down?
speaker2: no. this really him off, sonny. he says you're dead. he says he doesn't have a son.
speaker1: he's right. you shoulda done what he did. go home. don't talk to the fbi anymore. he walks away and moves toward the bank door.

speaker1: mister mulvaney? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: are you a lawyer?
speaker2: no. i had some legal training, but...
speaker1: i want to dictate my will. i need a notary?
speaker3: i'm a notary.
speaker1: being of sound mind and body, and all that
speaker1: to my darling wife leon whom i love as no other man has loved another man in all eternity, i leave $2,700 from my $10,000 life insurance policy, to be used for your change operation. if there is money left over it is to go to you on the first anniversary of my death, at my grave. i expect you to be a real woman then, and your life full of happiness and joy. to my sweet wife, heidi, five thousand from the same policy. you are the only woman i have ever loved, and i re-pledge my love to you in this sad moment, and to little kimmy and jimmy. i hope you remember me, jimmy. you are the little man of the family now, and will have to look after them for me. to my mother i ask forgiveness. you don't understand the things i did and said, but i'm me, and i'm different. i leave you, the rest of the policy and my stamp collection. i want a military funeral and am entitled to one free of charge. life and love are not easy and we have to bend a lot. i hope you find the places and the people to make you all happy as i could not. bless you and watch over you, as i shall, until we are joined in the hereafter, sweet leon, my heidi, dearest kimmy and jimmy, and my mother. sonny... here i'll spell the last name...
speaker1: type that up and i'll sign it.

speaker1: sonny appears. he strides to the limo. 
speaker2: okay. get away from it.
speaker2: these seats come out?
speaker3: yeah.

speaker1: you're the man! 
speaker2: come on, what's under this?
speaker1: i was lookin' at it. i saw you, man! you oughta see yourself! you wouldn't believe it.
speaker2: yes, i would.
speaker1: it, sheila isn't gonna believe it. they just call in and say gas up a stretchout and get it down to and i say, 'shit, another load of elks for the massage parlors.'
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: well, by i'm gonna remember you! and he turns and walks away.
speaker3: here's your driver, this is agent murphy.
speaker4: sonny and murphy. sonny eyes murphy, thinks, then begins to frisk murphy. he finds nothing.
speaker2: i don't want him.
speaker3: what can he do, he's clean...
speaker2: gimme the black guy...
speaker1: aw, hey...
speaker2: come on, nobody's gonna get hurt. if they were gonna shoot, they'd shoot now.
speaker3: i can't allow that, sonny...
speaker2: you can't allow! i'm running this thing, what gives you the idea you can say come on. i'll pay you. whatta you want? two hundred? a thousand?
speaker2: don't look at him. i'm running this.

speaker1: you'll be okay. 
speaker1: i want him.
speaker1: so long, copper.

speaker1: hey, let's get ready! 
speaker2: sonny - here's your document.
speaker3: sonny signs fast and firmly...

speaker1: okay, okay, okay! what a bunch of cold fish. it's an adventure! everybody's gonna remember you the rest of your lives, the day you got held up and kidnapped... hey! 
speaker1: you got bank americard?
speaker2: what now, sonny?
speaker1: listen, i owe a couple hundred dollars! i don't wanta leave owing anybody anything! a clean slate, a new leaf...
speaker1: i paying off. here. two hundred should do it.
speaker1: just give me a receipt. hey, sal, you okay?
speaker3: okay, sonny.
speaker1: all right.
speaker4: here's your document, sonny.
speaker1: yeah - it looks real official.
speaker1: hold it for me?

speaker1: okay - you got your one. 
speaker2: you follow my car.
speaker1: we did it!
speaker3: goodbye, honey. wish us luck!
speaker4: as edna pecks... goodbye.
speaker1: i'll be a son of a -- we're all okay! hey, man! honk the horn. let's go!
speaker5: hey, sal - do me a favor... point that gun up, huh? we hit a bump and the gun'll go off.

speaker1: murphy, can you see what they're doing? 
speaker2: he's still got some arrangements to make.
speaker1: there it is, sal. sal?
speaker3: i'm here.
speaker1: oh, hey. how about food? i forgot to ask to have food on board.
speaker4: that's the jet. you give us one more, now. that's the deal...
speaker1: okay. which one goes?
speaker5: sylvia?
speaker6: it's maria. go on, honey.

speaker1: i pray for your safety... ...sal? because i know it's your first plane trip. don't be scared, you know? 
speaker2: i ain't eaten all day. i just realized it.
speaker3: we'll have hamburgers on the plane.
speaker4: sal, keep it up, huh? the gun - please...

speaker1: let's move it, it. 
speaker2: you ready to get out first?
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: tears are beginning to flood past his defenses: 
speaker2: you are under arrest. you have the right to remain silent. you have the right to counsel to be present, during your interrogation.

speaker1: he was very hard to live with... 
speaker2: he made me laugh.

speaker1: i love him. he put an end to all that pansy limp wristed 
speaker2: they're getting off his belt, his shoe laces...
speaker3: because he always had a way of getting out, always in the army he was awol...

speaker1: i can't help thinking how he might ring the bell one of these days. that's why i'm nervous, because i'm always thinking some day he's gonna come along and ring the bell... 
speaker2: keep your eyes front.

speaker1: how did you know your son was involved? 
speaker2: it was on the tv.
speaker1: when was the last time you saw sal?
speaker2: oh, a long time. because i kept asking my husband where the heck could junior be? he wasn't around here. i thought maybe he was in prison or some place.
speaker1: did you know he was a homosexual?
speaker2: no, not until after they killed him.
speaker1: did you always call him junior.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: do you remember anything else about sal?
speaker2: no, that's all.

speaker1: ah, sonny! good luck, you know? 
speaker2: you were terrific, too!
speaker1: hey. it's raining.

speaker1: i'm glad. life is easier with him in prison. 
speaker2: it would be like always, the bell would ring, we'd have a ball.

