ANATOLY: kasimov, kasimov, good that you called us. 
KASIMOV: i don't even know how i got here. i swear, anatoly, i never touched her! i didn't lay a finger on her.
ANATOLY: kasimov. don't flounder.
JACK: she's been under too long. come on, come on!

KASIMOV: you're the only one who can help me. 
ANATOLY: c'mon, c'mon, tell the truth...c'mon.
KASIMOV: they'll kill me. anatoly paces up the room, away from kasimov.
ANATOLY: you asked for my help. you
JACK: the name pal...give us the name.

ANATOLY: come on! 
KASIMOV: his name is.....dimitri miediev.
ANATOLY: dimitri miediev...dimitri miediev...

ANATOLY: now, we drink. 
ANATOLY: to friends.
KASIMOV: yes, anatoly, yes.
JACK: cheers.
CLAIRE: did we get it?
ETHAN: we got it. on your feet.
CLAIRE: i want to sleep. can i sleep here.
ETHAN: walk, just walk. start walking.
CLAIRE: i'm walking.
ETHAN: talking's good, walking's better.
CLAIRE: sleeping's better.
CLAIRE: are
CLAIRE: oh yeah?
JACK: claire.
ETHAN: jack.

VOICE: ladies and gentlemen, we have leveled off at our cruising altitude of thirty-eight thousand feet-and we should be arriving in prague right on schedule. 
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: would you like to watch a movie mr rosen?
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: would you like to watch a movie mr phelps?
PHELPS: no, i prefer the theatre.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: would you consider the cinema of the ukraine?
PHELPS: perhaps you'd choose one for me.

KITTRIDGE: -- a former kgb line x officer now working the international black market selling intelligence. this morning, we learned that golitsyn has stolen one half of a cia noc list, the list of our non- official cover agents working in eastern europe. 
KITTRIDGE: for security reasons, the noc list is divided into two encoded halves. golitsyn already has the cryptonym portion, which contains agent code names and targeting areas. this portion is useless unless combined with the second half -- the true name list that is kept in the cia station in our embassy in prague.
KITTRIDGE: we believe golitsyn plans to steal the true name list at an embassy function tomorrow night. your mission, should you decide to accept it, is to obtain photographic proof of the theft, apprehend those involved, and return the stolen list. i don't have to stress the importance of this matter, jim. we're keeping it internally black. because of its urgency, i've already sent to prague a team selected from your usual group.
KITTRIDGE: ethan hunt will of course be your point man, as usual. he's in kiev; we're getting word to him now.

JACK: look to your right, then back to me. there's a camera built right into the bridge. whatever you see it sees and transmits it back here. can you hear me? 
SARAH: of course i can hear you.
JACK: no, in your...ear piece. you have a lovely smile . can you hear me now?
SARAH: loud and clear.
JACK: what's going on?
SARAH: i don't know.
JACK: why don't you take a look?
SARAH: jack...that's spying.
JACK: that's what we do isn't it?
SARAH: jack you're so wicked.
JACK: too wicked to have a drink later?
SARAH: i think i might just take that look.
ETHAN: yeah, well, jim, fact is i've got more than ninety days leave coming.
PHELPS: a hundred and sixty-seven, i think it is. take it all, if you want.
PHELPS: what the hell's made you decide to take your leave at the worst possible time? claire's in a weird mood too.
ETHAN: oh? what's the problem?
PHELPS: i don't know, i had to go to chicago again. you were in kiev. you tell me.
ETHAN: tell you what?
PHELPS: when you started noticing your short term memory loss. what
PHELPS: ah, forget it. what are we talking burnout here?
ETHAN: i guess.
PHELPS: ethan, you
PHELPS: because i can't afford it. and because you'd burn up before you'd burn out.
ETHAN: how was chicago?
PHELPS: wonderful. ran into a convention of auto dealers at the drake hotel. you hear the one about the astronaut who comes back from the first manned flight to mars after two years? his wife's got a year old kid. so he says "all right. who was it? my friend harry?" she says no. "oh, it was my friend sammy." she says it wasn't sammy. "oh, i suppose it was my friend lou." "no, what's the matter, don't you think i have any friends of my own?!"
PHELPS: boy, you really are grim. come here, take a look.
PHELPS: beyond charles bridge there is our embassy. see it? tomorrow night, if anything goes wrong, this guy will steal the names of our agents in every country all over eastern europe. up for grabs to the highest bidders -- third world terrorists, arms dealers, drug lords -- any and everybody who'd love to get rid of long term coverts like us, and some very dear friends among them. if they're exposed, they'll be executed. come over here. take a lock at this. claire, who is working at a computer, has pulled up a

SENATOR WALTZER: i'll go you one further. i say the cia and all its shadow organizations have become irrelevant at best and unconstitutional at worst. it's time we throw a little light on the whole concept of the pentagon's "black budget." these covert agency subgroups have confidential funding, they report to no one -- 
ETHAN: you're going to use walter?
PHELPS: he's our guy.
ETHAN: isn't he chairing the armed services hearing?
PHELPS: not this week. this week he's flyfishing at the oughterard slough in county kildare, with one of our best irish guides.
ETHAN: he won't be back in a hurry?
PHELPS: no, not in a hurry. what do you think? you think the plot'll work?
ETHAN: sure. if the main character does.
PHELPS: if you were me, ethan, who would
ETHAN: always.
JACK: stick of gum. if you come up against a lock you can't pick -- half the gum is red, the other half is green.
JACK: red light. green light. mash them together, asta lasagna. don't get any on you -- you have five seconds.
PHELPS: are you gonna take it?
ETHAN: give me the gum.
JACK: just don't chew it.
PHELPS: thank you.

SARAH: i bet you don't remember me, do you, senator? 
SENATOR WALTZER: of course i do. how are you, miss norman?
SARAH: he's in pocket. under the archway behind me.

PHELPS: sarah, mark the package and go to two. 
SARAH: your advance team mentioned you'd want a tour of the facility, so i've gone ahead and set that up for you --
SENATOR WALTZER: terrific. let's get going. will you excuse us?
DIPLOMAT: uh, sir?

HANNAH: en route. 
PHELPS: hannah, pull the shade .

JACK: governor's in position. we have the elevator. 
GUARD: excuse me, can i help you?
SARAH: -- which leads directly to the denied area, the only limited access area in the whole facility.
SARAH: as you can see. this area has both a marine guard and video surveillance, and is strictly monitored at all times.
SARAH: senator, don't you have a young man on your staff named

PHELPS: jack's pinned down sarah. should be a second. keep dancing. 
ETHAN: we were forced to tie him to my best stallion and drag him around the barn a few times.
JACK: relax your crack, foghorn, i'm workin' on it.

IDENTITY CONFIRMED: -- and the elevator doors slide open briskly. 
GUARD: oh. sorry, sir.

ETHAN: higher. higher. 
SARAH: higher.
ETHAN: right, right. good.

ETHAN: jack. jack. 
JACK: i didn't touch it.

ETHAN: ok. taking golitsyn's exit. jack, open the doors. 
SARAH: what about my coat? i'll freeze.
JACK: i don't have it.
PHELPS: opening the doors. go under.

ETHAN: he's got it. saved your again jack. 
JACK: give me a break, pops.
SARAH: such a nice ass.
JACK: and a lonely ass.
ETHAN: sarah's reconsidering. claire, transport in five minutes.
CLAIRE: roger that.

ETHAN: in position. jack open the door, let the package roll. 
JACK: roger that. opening doors now.
ETHAN: stairway, youã­re wrapped, go to transport.
HANNAH: en route.

ETHAN: jack. jack. 
PHELPS: man down. stay where you are. iã­m on my way.
PHELPS: en route.

SARAH: the package is in the open. 
ETHAN: jim. jim. heã­s in the open.
PHELPS: iã­ve got a shadow.
ETHAN: can you lose him?
PHELPS: no. abort.
SARAH: ethan. heã­s out of pocket.
ETHAN: jim we canã­t.
PHELPS: abort. thatã­s an order.

PHELPS: no, it, no, i said abort! 
ETHAN: sarah eye on the package. jim, iã­m coming to you.
SARAH: jim gave an abort, we should walk away.
ETHAN: no, weã­re going to recover the disk, understand?! now move!

PHELPS: where are you? 
ETHAN: about two hundred yards from the bridge.
PHELPS: theyã­re covering this frequency, ethan. cut all radio communications. repeat. cut all radio communications.

FLAT VOICE: satcom seven. 
ETHAN: central europe. unsecured.
FLAT VOICE: designator?
ETHAN: bravo echo one one.
FLAT VOICE: switching.
KITTRIDGE: this is kittridge.
ETHAN: go secure.

KITTRIDGE: go ahead. 
ETHAN: theyã­re dead.
KITTRIDGE: whoã­s dead?
ETHAN: my team. claire, jack, even jim - - hannah, maybe, i -- donã­t know

KITTRIDGE: are you damaged? 
ETHAN: they knew we were coming. golitsynã­s dead too. the disk is gone.

ETHAN: i donã­t think so. 
KITTRIDGE: donã­t
KITTRIDGE: location green. one hour. iã­ll be there myself.
ETHAN: youã­re in prague?
KITTRIDGE: heard a lot about you, hunt. donã­t disappoint me.
ETHAN: no sir.
KITTRIDGE: one hour.

KITTRIDGE: i can't tell you how sorry i am. i know how much jim in particular meant to you, ethan. personally as well as professionally. 
ETHAN: yeah.
KITTRIDGE: passport, visas - you know the drill. we'll work the exfiltration thru canada, debrief you at langley. throw the prague police a bone, you know toss them a few suspects. follow me?
ETHAN: yeah. i follow you.
KITTRIDGE: we've lost enough agents for one night.
ETHAN: you mean

KITTRIDGE: you seem bent on blaming yourself, ethan. 
ETHAN: who else is left?
KITTRIDGE: yes. i see your point.
ETHAN: why was there another team?
KITTRIDGE: what?
ETHAN: of imf agents. at the embassy. tonight.
KITTRIDGE: i don't quite follow you.
ETHAN: let's see if you can follow me around this room. the drunk russians on the embankment at 7 and 8 o'clock...the couple waltzing around me at the embassy at 9 and 11. the waiter behind hannah at the top of the staircase - bowtie, 12 o'clock. the other imf team. you're worried about me.
KITTRIDGE: for a little over two years now we've been spotting serious blowback in imf operations. we have a penetration. the other day we decoded a message on the internet from a czech we know as "max."
ETHAN: the arms dealer.
KITTRIDGE: that's right. max, it seems, has two unique gifts -- a capacity for anonymity and for corrupting susceptible agents. this time he's gotten to someone on the inside - he's put himself in a position to buy our noc list. an operation he referred to as "job 314". the job he thought golitsyn was doing tonight.
ETHAN: but the list golitsyn stole was a decoy.
KITTRIDGE: correct the actual list is safe at langley. "golitsyn" was a lightning rod, one of ours.
ETHAN: this whole operation was a molehunt.
KITTRIDGE: yes, the mole's deep inside. and -- like you said. you survived. ethan stares at him levelly.
KITTRIDGE: i want to show you something, ethan.
KITTRIDGE: since your father's death, your family's farm has been in sub-chapter s and now, suddenly, they're flush with over a hundred and twenty grand in the bank. dad's illness was supposed to have wiped out the bank account -- dying slowly in america after all, can be a very expensive proposition ethan. so, why don't we go quietly out of here onto the plane...
ETHAN: how about if we just go quietly into the bathroom and i wash your mouth out with soap - you pathetic button down bureaucratic
KITTRIDGE: ethan, i can understand you're very upset.
ETHAN: kitteridge, you've never seen me very upset.
KITTRIDGE: all right, enough is enough hunt. you've bribed, cajoled, killed - and relied on intimate loyalties to get away with it. you're determined to shake hands with the devil and i'm going to make sure you do it in hell.

ETHAN: job. job 3:14. march fourteen. job 31 march. 
SEARCHING STRING NOT FOUND: ethan tries again:
max.com: the answer:

PHELPS: ethan, what are you doing? 
PHELPS: i needed you, ethan. 1 needed you on the bridge, and -- you weren't there. ethan? ethan?
ANGLE: it's
CLAIRE: ethan -- ethan, it's okay. it's claire. ethan what's wrong with you?
ETHAN: don't move.
ETHAN: you were in the car!
CLAIRE: i wasn't. i heard that jim was in trouble on the radio. he said someone was...
ETHAN: shut up! i saw you. you were in the car.
CLAIRE: no, i got out of the car and i ran to the bridge.
ETHAN: don't give me that! i was on the bridge.
CLAIRE: what happened to jim?
ETHAN: there was nobody on the bridge.
CLAIRE: what happened to jim?
ETHAN: dead. dead. dead! wake up, claire! jim's dead, they're dead. they're all dead!
CLAIRE: they're dead. jim's dead.
ETHAN: take off your coat.
CLAIRE: what?
ETHAN: take off your coat!
ETHAN: where were you?
CLAIRE: i walked away. he said abort. he was gone so i walked away.
ETHAN: that was four hours ago! who sent you? did they send you here?
CLAIRE: who is "they?"
ETHAN: did they send you...did they send you?
CLAIRE: who is they, who is they?
ETHAN: who sent you?! who sent you?

CLAIRE: why haven't they brought us in yet? 
ETHAN: i've been disavowed. they think i killed jim and everyone else. somehow a hundred thousand dollars found its way into my parents' bank account. kittridge assumes i'm a mole they've been tracing and i've been in the employ of an arms dealer, max, for the last two years, to get him our noc list.
CLAIRE: what are you going to do?
ETHAN: i'm going to get it for him. whoever the mole is, i think goes by the name of job, at least part of the time. 1 can't find him, but if he knows 1 have the noc list, he'll find me.

CLAIRE: ethan, you're not making sense. let me go in and talk to kittridge. i'm going to tell him you had nothing to do... 
ETHAN: claire, claire, claire, if you're not dead, he's going to assume you're with me.

MATTHIAS: would you remove your hat please? 
ETHAN: why?
MATTHIAS: you wish to meet max? this is the price of admission.

ETHAN: i thought i was going to see max. 
MATTHIAS: you misunderstood. no one sees max.
ETHAN: then what am i doing here?
MATTHIAS: allowing max to see you and hear what you've got to say.
ETHAN: i don't communicate very well through a shroud.
MATTHIAS: if max doesn't like what you have to say, you'll be wearing that shroud indefinitely.
ETHAN: i'm willing to take the chance.
MATTHIAS: very well.
MAX: who are you and what are you doing here?

ETHAN: i need one hundred thousand dollars. 
MAX: really? and you thought if you simply showed up i might give it to you?
ETHAN: why not? you gave job a hundred and twenty five thousand.
MAX: the penny drops.
MAX: on what?
ETHAN: whether you like a paradox. i want a hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
MAX: it's quite out of the question.
ETHAN: the disk job sold you is worthless. it's bait, part of an internal molehunt.
MAX: and how might you know that? are you another company man?
ETHAN: like job?
MAX: ah, but, we're asking about you.
ETHAN: i'm noc. was.
ETHAN: that's the question i want to ask job.
MAX: i don't know job any more than he knows me.
ETHAN: even so, i'm sure you could arrange an introduction.
MAX: why should i?
ETHAN: because i can deliver the actual noc list. the one you have is not only worthless, it's certain to be equipped with a homing device to pinpoint your exact location.
MAX: it's easy to say the disk is worthless when you say i can't look at the information and
MAX: mm - hmmm...
ETHAN: tell you what. how good's the rf scanner you used in the car?
MAX: very good.
ETHAN: okay, use it. but i suggest pack up first.

MATTHIAS: twenty-six, twenty-seven. so far so good. 
MAX: that's not so good for you, my friend.
MATTHIAS: thirty-two and change.
MATTHIAS: forty-four. forty-five.
ETHAN: i'd say you've got about two minutes.

MAX: oh dear, gunther will never let me use one of his apartments again. phew, sorry i doubted you, dear boy. you're a good sport. do accept the compliment. 
ETHAN: thanks, max. or is it maxine?

MAX: i don't have to tell you what a comfort anonymity can be in my profession -- like a warm blanket. my deal with job was subject to a successful boot scan. obviously it didn't pass muster. deal's off. 
ETHAN: what was your deal with job?
MAX: six million dollars. i'll give you the same. but i want the complete list now, not just eastern europe. i won't do this piecemeal, it's too dangerous. i want the

ETHAN: how will you make sure job will be there? 
MAX: how will you make sure i'll have the list in three days? it's been a delight. now where can i drop you dear boy?
ETHAN: i'm not being dropped anywhere without my money.
MAX: i'm going to have to front you personally. don't lose that money without losing your life.
ETHAN: i wouldn't dream of it.

KITTRIDGE: the man's gone black, barnes. he's under until he decides to surface. 
BARNES: look we can use someone from the embassy and we can get the local authorities involved. close off his transportation.
KITTRIDGE: what can we do, barnes? put a guy at the airport? how many identities do you think hunt has? how many times has he slipped past custom, in how many countries? these guys are trained to be ghosts.
KITTRIDGE: let's not waste time chasing him. make him come to us. everybodyã­s got pressure points. find out something that's important to him personally and you squeeze.

CLAIRE: max made a deal with you? 
ETHAN: i deliver the noc list, max delivers job.
CLAIRE: we've got seventy-five rounds for your glock 9, but only twenty for the sig sauer, one pair of visco glasses with monitor, plenty of passports. you said it yourself -- if i'm not dead, i'm with you.
ETHAN: you're sure about this?
CLAIRE: jim was my husband. i want to know who killed him. i want to get the son of a who did this.
ETHAN: we need help, and we don't have time. they have to be local.
CLAIRE: what kind of help?

ETHAN: simple game. four players. exfil opens the pocket -- -- cyber ops lifts the wallet. 
KRIEGER: bank?
ETHAN: imf mainframe.
KRIEGER: where exactly is it?
ETHAN: in langley.
LUTHER: in langley? the one in virginia, langley?
KRIEGER: is he serious?
CLAIRE: always.
KRIEGER: if we're going to virginia, why don't we drop by fort knox? i can fly a helicopter right in through the lobby and set it down inside the vault and it will be a of a lot easier than breaking into the cia.
LUTHER: what are we downloading?
ETHAN: information.
LUTHER: what kind?
ETHAN: profitable.
CLAIRE: payment on delivery.
LUTHER: i don't know. this i don't know.
ETHAN: this doesn't sound like the luther stickell i've heard of. what'd they used to call you? the net ranger? phineas phreak? the only man alive who actually hacked nato ghostcom.
LUTHER: there was never any physical evidence that i had anything to do with that.. that.. with that exceptional piece of work.
ETHAN: you don't know what you're missing. this is the mt. everest of hacks.
LUTHER: you're all kidding yourselves. even with top of the line crypto. cray access. stu 3's --
CLAIRE: krieger can get it. right?
KRIEGER: may take a little time.
ETHAN: may take a little time. that's not what claire tells me about you.
LUTHER: thinking machine laptops, i'm talking about the 686 prototypes --
LUTHER: and i get to keep the equipment when we're done.
ETHAN: luther, i guess you're all out of excuses.
LUTHER: i can't just hack my way inside. there's no modem access to the mainframe, it's in a stand-alone. i'd have to be physically at the terminal.
ETHAN: luther, relax, it's worse than you think. the terminal's in black vault lock-down.

ETHAN: the first system is sound-sensitive, anything above a whisper sets it off. the second system is on the floor and pressure-sensitive -- 
ETHAN: --and the third detects any increase in temperature. even the body heat of an unauthorized person in the room will trigger it.
ETHAN: all three systems are state of the art.

ETHAN: may i come in? 
CLAIRE: sure...

ETHAN: it's cash. and a second passport. if anything goes wrong when we're inside, if you sense even the slightest deviation don't look over your shoulder, you walk away - you hear me? just walk away. 
CLAIRE: you don't think we're going to make it.
ETHAN: i didn't say that.
CLAIRE: you didn't have to.........
ETHAN: i just need you to be safe.
CLAIRE: what about you?
ETHAN: what about me - jim called an abort - i didn't comply. i lost the team. i just need you to be safe.
CLAIRE: i wish i'd never laid eyes on you..
ETHAN: sorry.

LOWDEN: survival. 
KITTRIDGE: too short sighted. this guy's proactive, he
KITTRIDGE: oh, for -- do we have to evacuate?
BARNES: that's s.o.p..

ETHAN: we picked up alarms in sectors three, seven, and twelve. 
GUARD RICHARD: yeah. that's what i've got too.
ETHAN: what sector's the air conditioning?
GUARD RANDALL: uh -- twenty-one, but there's no alarm in sector twenty-one.
ETHAN: i gotta go in there and shut it down!
GUARD RANDALL: nobody goes into any sector where the alarm didn't go off.
ETHAN: do you

GUARD RANDALL: wait! hold it - it's on. let's go. 
ETHAN: let's move!

GUARD: where's the other guy? 
ETHAN: zero body count.
KRIEGER: we'll see.
ETHAN: time up.

KRIEGER: merci. 
ETHAN: we're not outta here yet.

KITTRIDGE: okay! 
KITTRIDGE: and where is the list vulnerable?
KITTRIDGE: kittridge, yup?

KITTRIDGE: you and i know about this -- and that's where it stops. understand? it never happened. 
BARNES: what about him...?
KITTRIDGE: i want him manning a radar tower in alaska by the end of the day. just mail him his clothes.

KRIEGER: you contacting your buyer? ethan? 
KRIEGER: ethan? oh, 'scuse me mr. hunt?

KRIEGER: you're not going to any meeting without me. 
ETHAN: my contact is extremely shy.
KRIEGER: i don't think you're in any position to give orders, do you? not while i'm holding this.
CLAIRE: krieger.
KRIEGER: stay out of this.
OR: lachez - moi
OR: t'agueue
ETHAN: don't you mean this?
KRIEGER: that's not it. that's not the list.
ETHAN: what's the matter, you don't know this trick?
ETHAN: where did it go?! it's gone!
ETHAN: but not

ETHAN: i thought you had it! do you actually think i'd let you have the noc list? 
CLAIRE: i'm so sorry. krieger was my call. i've never worked with him. i'm sorry, ethan.
ETHAN: we did what we had to do.
CLAIRE: i'm going to try and get some sleep.

LUTHER: krieger 
LUTHER: what makes you trust me?
ETHAN: because if you knew what you were getting into, you never would have done it.
LUTHER: i'm not letting this list get out in the open.
ETHAN: exactly, that's your job. tomorrow on the train, you can't let this list get out into the open. what's the range of this thing?
LUTHER: it's hard to tell. i'm gonna have to be close.
ETHAN: i'll get you close.
CLAIRE: ethan i need to talk to you.
INSERT - SCREEN: on the screen, an anchor in the cnn news center.
ANCHOR: the unlikely setting...a farm in the heartland of america...the state of wisconsin, where federal agents claim to have broken the brain trust behind an international drug ring. for a report we go live now to cnn correspondent in the state capitol, madison. ...?
REPORTER: authorities have identified the couple as margaret ethan hunt and donald hunt.
BACK TO SCENE: ethan looks. claire behind him.

INSERT - SCREEN: similar to methamphetamines, cat is seen by officials as one of the most powerful and dangerous drugs in the world. some thirty-four cat labs have been seized so far, but the recently widowed mrs. hunt and her brother-in-law are believed to be involved in a global drug distribution network. 
REPORTER: mr. fairchild, agent fairchild, a comment please.
PUBLIC OFFICIAL: i think it's sad, really. farmers, unless they're a conglomerate, are always operating on a paper-thin margin. i'm afraid what we have here is a case of a naive and lonely widow with a lot of financial problems who chose to make money through illegal means.
REPORTER: that was john fairchild, the dea agent in charge of this investigation. officials tell me that international law enforcement agents are expected to arrive here later today to question the hunts. this is joe jones, cnn, love in madison, wisconsin.

ETHAN: kittridge... 
CLAIRE: bastard!
ETHAN: don't...don't touch me...
CLAIRE: what are you going to do?
ETHAN: he's expecting my call. i'm going to the station... and i'm going to call him.

KITTRIDGE: kittridge. 
ETHAN: i see you've been out visiting the folks.

TECHNICIAN: he's in england. 
KITTRIDGE: get mi5.
KITTRIDGE: ethan, i want to reassure you that my first order of business after you come in is to get these ridiculous charges against your family dropped and eliminated completely from their files. come in now, we can plea down the charges against you as well.
ETHAN: can i ask you something, kittridge?

KITTRIDGE: i don't know, ethan. suppose you tell me? 
BARNES: lost him. we needed three more seconds.
KITTRIDGE: he wanted us to know he was in london.

PHELPS: ..the next day i managed to drag myself to the safe house, must've just missed you..anyway, i checked our aliases. 
ETHAN: - and picked us up in the states -
PHELPS: - but you left before i could get there and i could check just so many places..
ETHAN: yeah, smaller countries don't computerize customs records -
PHELPS: - so i watched europe. once you showed up in england..it was easy.
ETHAN: you knew i liked the rentals at liverpool street.
PHELPS: hey, i showed 'em to you!
ETHAN: i remember..
ETHAN: jim, who do you think you're kidding? a doctor's gotta look at that. you can't sit up straight.
PHELPS: i can sit up straight. i just can't..sit up straight very well. it's not important! i saw who shot me. ethan, i saw the mole. it was kittridge.

PHELPS: yeah. 
ETHAN: how did kittridge do it?..

ETHAN VO: - he shot you on the bridge - 
ETHAN VO: - he must have had back up take out golitsyn and sarah at the fence..
ETHAN VO: how did he do hannah?
ETHAN VO: no. no. he could've taken out hannah himself.
ETHAN: why, jim?

PHELPS: whatã­s going to make him do that? 
ETHAN: what he didnã­t get in prague. the noc list.
PHELPS: ethan. good for you.
ETHAN: a meeting tomorrow on the tgv, enroute to paris.
PHELPS: tight security. no guns. real plus.
ETHAN: if i supposedly deliver the noc list to max, max has agreed to deliver job to me. iã­ll have claire and luther stickell with me on the train. marcel krieger will have helicopter transport waiting in paris.
ETHAN: jim...?
PHELPS: i was sitting in a cafe waiting for you and suddenly there she was, standing in the rain just outside the safe house..alive and beautiful..and thinking iã­m dead and gone. knows what sheã­s had to do forget about me to keep going and get the job done, i..
PHELPS: - no. she canã­t know about me. no one can. not til this is over. thereã­s too much at stake, ethan.
ETHAN: youã­re probably right.
PHELPS: i usually am.
ETHAN: once we leave the safehouse, get in there and crash. iã­ll call you from paris.
PHELPS: you got it.
ETHAN: and get a doctor.
PHELPS: good luck.

CLAIRE: what happened? 
ETHAN: i sent the message to max. weã­re on for tomorrow.
CLAIRE: okay...
ETHAN: is this the only way?
CLAIRE: yes.......come here....viens pres moi... she draws him down by his hand to kiss her.

KITTRIDGE: how long to the london terminus? 
AGENT: twenty, twenty-five minutes.
KITTRIDGE: youã­ve got ten.

MAX: how long until we reach the chunnel? 
MATTHIAS: twenty minutes.

MATTHIAS: yes... itã­s him. 
MAX: this wasnã­t what we discussed.

MAX: ha, dear boy! i do hope this doesnã­t prelude a meeting in private. 
ETHAN: it doesnã­t, dear girl. as long as you tell me where the money is.
MAX: the possibility alone is worth ten million. baggage car, rack 3. silver briefcase. combination 314.
ETHAN: what about job?
MAX: i wouldnã­t worry about him. once youã­ve got the money -- heã­ll find you.

KITTRIDGE: and if we donã­t find him - weã­ll search the whole train again. 
BARNES: whatã­s hunt doing on the tgv?
KITTRIDGE: high speed train. no-one gets on. no- one gets off. high security. good place for a pass off to max.
BARNES: but why tell us?
KITTRIDGE: heã­s putting on a show, barnes.
BARNES: what kind of show.
KITTRIDGE: i donã­t know. it didnã­t say on the tickets.
CLAIRE: ethan...kittridge is on the train.
ETHAN: kittridge is job. max delivered. how far is he from luther?
CLAIRE: two cars. where are you?
ETHAN: you are my eyes. stay with him.

MAX: heã­s in the baggage car. 
PHELPS: iã­ll be there.

MAX: whatã­s the problem. 
MATTHIAS: connection denied.
MAX: try it again.
MATTHIAS: itã­s not working.
MAX: is something wrong with the phone? well is something wrong with the batteries?
MATTHIAS: i always check the batteries.
MAX: run it through from the top.

BARNES: nothing but civilians, gene. 
KITTRIDGE: this is - we donã­t even know what max looks like.
BARNES: maybe we donã­t have to know what he looks like. if heã­s got that list, heã­s going to want to check it. we should be looking for laptops.
KITTRIDGE: good idea.

MATTHIAS: itã­s working. 
MAX: phew! weã­ve got five minutes...

KITTRIDGE: hello, luther. whereã­s hunt? 
LUTHER: mr. kittridge, the noc list is being modemed off the train.
KITTRIDGE: where?

CLAIRE: ethanã­s right behind me. listen to me jim. is it such a good idea to kill him? we take the money. ethan takes the blame. no-one else has seen you alive. 
ETHAN: of course - iã­m sorry to hear you say that claire.
CLAIRE: ethan?
PHELPS: yes. ethan hunt, darling. remember him?
CLAIRE: you knew about jim?
PHELPS: course he did. just exactly when he knew is something of a question. before or after i showed in london, mind telling me, ethan?
ETHAN: before london. but after you took the bible out of the drake hotel in chicago.
PHELPS: they stamped it, didnã­t they? those gideons. phelpã­s watch alarm goes off.
PHELPS: two minutes til krieger shows. thisã­ll have to be quicker than iã­d like.
CLAIRE: ethan, if you knew about jim?..why..
PHELPS: why the masquerade? why take the risk? well, claire, youã­ve asked the question and you are the answer.
ETHAN: i knew about jim.
PHELPS: but, he didnã­t know about you. in all fairness, ethan, claire was never convinced her charms would work with you. but i was supremely confident - having tastes the goods. "thou shall not covet thy neighbourã­s wife", ethan. oh, ethan is in love with you, claire, make no mistake about it. and like all the worldã­s lovers, heã­s tortured by the same, one pathetic question - "does she feel the same way i do?" jim turns to claire.
PHELPS: well claire do you? have you been exploiting his feelings or returning them?
CLAIRE: jim - lets just get the money and get out of here. claire goes to ethan.
CLAIRE: the money ethan.
ETHAN: youã­ve earned it.
PHELPS: count it.
ETHAN: tell me something claire, that night in prague, was it you or jim that blew up the car and scattered hannah all over town?
PHELPS: keep counting claire.
CLAIRE: it was me. i did it.
PHELPS: satisfied?
CLAIRE: all ten million.
PHELPS: fold it. fold it tight.
ETHAN: arenã­t you going to thank me jim. ten million is better than six.
PHELPS: donã­t flatter yourself - six was for
ETHAN: youã­re wrong about one thing. iã­m not the only one whoã­s seen you alive.
KITTRIDGE: good morning, mr phelps.
PHELPS: you son of a
CLAIRE: donã­t jim.
PHELPS: now we donã­t have to eliminate him? you like that, donã­t you claire? donã­t you?
CLAIRE: yes.
ETHAN: jim, itã­s over.
PHELPS: ethan - iã­ve always taught you, nothing can be more dangerous than the truth. it can kill you.

ETHAN: claire...hey... 
CLAIRE: this stuff is so sticky.
ETHAN: claire.
CLAIRE: itã­s all right, ethan..youã­ll bring me back...wonã­t you...
ETHAN: i always have, claire..

CONDUCTOR: no, no, it's 
CONDUCTOR: it'll crash into us! accelerate, accelerate.

LUTHER: i think this is what you're looking for. 
MAX: my lawyers will have a field day with this. entrapment, jurisdictional conflicts --
KITTRIDGE: maybe we'll just keep the courts out of this one.
MAX: i'm sure we can find something i have that you need.
KITTRIDGE: you know, i would

LUTHER: reach your folks? how they feeling? 
ETHAN: about what?
LUTHER: the official apology from the justice department, the vip treatment, you know, the whole nine yards.
ETHAN: well my mother was a little confused about how the dea could mistake her and uncle donald for a couple of dope smugglers in the florida keys.
LUTHER: cheers.
ETHAN: here's to you, luther. to being off the disavowed list.
LUTHER: hey, i'm the flavour of the month!
ETHAN: you're more than that, luther. they were mistaken about you and they're trying to show you they know it. they want you back in.
LUTHER: sure. they want me back in so i won't break in! they
LUTHER: i figured i'd let 'em reinstate my back pay, give me a promotion, check out my office at langley and
LUTHER: why don't you come back with me?
ETHAN: just don't know why i'd be doing it.
LUTHER: you really liked phelps, didn't you?
ETHAN: he was a good guy for a long, long time. just - not long enough. gotta catch my flight.. so. how's it feel being a solid citizen again?
LUTHER: oh man...i don't know. i'm gonna miss being disreputable.
ETHAN: well, luther - if it makes you feel any better i'll always think of you that way.

FLIGHT ATTENDANT: would you like to watch a movie, miss clarke? 
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: excuse me, mr. hunt. would you like to watch a movie.
ETHAN: no, thank you.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: would you consider the cinema of the caribbean?
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: aruba, perhaps?

