speaker1: a seven-speed mix-o-meter food processor! $21.69! 
speaker2: sweatpants! two pair! $6.69!

speaker1: fifteen foot jumper cables - 69 cents a foot! 
speaker2: chocolate turtles! 69 cents a pound bag!
speaker3: three-pack of men's elastic waist mid-thigh boxer shorts! $2.69!
speaker4: hold. hold. hold. and...continue.
speaker5: four toby jug beer steins - $2.69!
speaker6: mp3 player the size of a bottle cap! something and 69 cents!
speaker7: duck blind print sheets for a queen size bed. $7.69.
speaker8: shop unimart! where united, you save!

speaker1: too much mac and cheese for this little pickle bug! 
speaker2: they do love the comfort food. don't you, li'l pickle bug...

speaker1: buddy. park there and you'll get a ticket. 
speaker2: call a cop, doof. i'm gone in sixty seconds. you guys having a party?

speaker1: finally. dotty g. and her forty-two- k a year are history. who else would do us that favor? 
speaker2: wish they'd all sail off like her.
speaker1: the "r" bomb is going to do some collateral damage to this place.
speaker3: "r-bomb"? oh my restructuring?
speaker4: separating the chaff from the wheat. chaff is the bad stuff, right?
speaker3: chaff is the waste matter, correct.
speaker4: before e.o.q. them's our orders.
speaker1: what say we drop a brick in the pond to warn the herd?
speaker2: how?
speaker1: firing someone.
speaker4: someone they'd never expect to be let go. to look fair. i like it.
speaker1: like a team leader.
speaker3: team leader?

speaker1: suggestions on who it should be? 
speaker2: i say crowne.
speaker3: larry crowne?
speaker2: who else? avery won't retire. we fire him, it's a law suit.
speaker2: alvarez is about to drop a kid. she'll go part time in a week.
speaker2: crowne's pink slip will save 'da "u" big green backwash.
speaker1: what salary tier is crowne at?
speaker4: top of the pyramid with a c.o.l.
speaker1: sweet. we'll need actionable cause, of course.
speaker1: how's his review record?
speaker3: he's a candidate for employee of the month. his 22nd time.
speaker1: okay. so. sluggers, gimme a reason...

speaker1: we could use the limited horizons strategy. 
speaker1: larry will always be passed over for management. he never went to college.
speaker2: you're that familiar with his record?
speaker3: she was his squeeze for a few weeks, weren't you, vick?
speaker1: that was before the new employee covenants. that you even remember...
speaker3: the memory haunts me.
speaker4: he'll sock us for severance.
speaker3: big brick in the pond, though.
speaker2: let's call it. today, end of shift, unimart bids crowne adieu.

speaker1: team leaders zone departments before punching out. it's policy. 
speaker2: i mean here here. you just got paged to meeting room 2.
speaker1: probably to clean up after the party.
speaker2: isn't it employee of the month day?
speaker1: speck-tack-alar.
speaker2: you're the only one around here who deserves it. how many will this be?
speaker1: ah, who's counting?

speaker1: remember how we saw "the unimart way" video, vick? you and me, alone in this room, and look at us now. 
speaker2: cubby. make tracks.

speaker1: i think i know what this is about. 
speaker2: i don't think you do.
speaker3: crowne. at unimart, we care. so we take care. which makes moments like these tough for all of us.
speaker1: sounds like you're firing me.
speaker2: i take it back.
speaker3: corporate has mandated a restructuring in all unimart stores. that's the word they use.
speaker3: it is touchas, right? where you get kicked?
speaker4: yeah. a yiddish word.
speaker5: like the buttocks.
speaker4: touchas and buttocks. synonymous.
speaker3: hurts to get kicked back there, no matter what language you speak.
speaker1: unimart is firing me...
speaker2: crowne-ie, you did a heck of a job.
speaker1: why me?

speaker1: who do you suggest? alvarez? 
speaker2: why not strang?
speaker2: i've been here longer than you, jack. i started 21 years ago as an inventory associate at the store on euclid.
speaker3: seniority would preclude this reality, larry, but unimart's policy is to never limit your horizons.
speaker4: here's the prob: your lack of a graduate degree will forever any move up the management ladder.
speaker5: becasue you never went to college you're forever retarded.
speaker2: i won't make the front office?
speaker5: never. s. m. u. class of '86! go 'stangs!
speaker2: i went in the navy. right outta high school. five years, and by then...
speaker4: thank you for your service to our country, larry. and, in total seriousness to unimart too

speaker1: i thought i was employee of the month. 
speaker2: in a way, you are.
speaker1: no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. no. i'm going to lose my house...
speaker3: the timing on this is always a
speaker1: guys. guys. guys. guys. guys. guys. guys. guys. we can fix this.
speaker3: really wish we could.
speaker3: vick? the generous severance package?
speaker4: sign here. here. here. initial that. sign here. one more. done.

speaker1: 12 jerks i'd fire before you. 
speaker2: stick it out. you go to college?
speaker1: couple years. then i blew out my

speaker1: thanks for seeing me off. 
speaker2: i need your apron, man.
speaker2: your apron. says unimart on it, so it ain't yours.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker2: goofy car, man.

speaker1: laurie gammelgaard thank you for holding how may i help you? 
speaker2: i was holding for barry raphael in home and real estate?
speaker1: mr. raphael is no longer with the bank. how can i help you?
speaker2: barry is gone? i need to talk to someone in home and real estate.

speaker1: i wish! i'm customer number 566 7878 2031 339 and i can be there in three minutes! 
speaker2: as long as you are here before six, okey dokey.
speaker1: three minutes!

speaker1: what happened to barry raphael? 
speaker2: barry raphael was harassing the younger tellers but we are not supposed to admit that.
speaker2: this is some kick in the head. not sure what to tell you, mr.
speaker1: i m hoping not to lose my house.
speaker2: you're carrying what on the house?

speaker1: laurie gammelgaard no. 
speaker2: but riverbank does have a plan for you.
speaker2: in a few weeks your financial base will tell us what we can do. find new employment. liquidate everything low on the value index. stick to a budget. clip coupons, buy in bulk, you know the drill. then come back and we'll work with you.
speaker3: that's riverbank's plan for me?
speaker2: it is friday, mr. crowne...

speaker1: larry's home a little late tonight. 
speaker2: maybe he was out on a date.

speaker1: we'd see that on the news. 
speaker2: don't even think about lighting that up in my house.

speaker1: what can he do, but enter the truth? 
speaker2: more on-line applications flash by....

speaker1: how do i offer this up to personnel? 
speaker2: there should be a box to put it in.
speaker1: this?
speaker2: no. there should be another box.
speaker1: there isn't.
speaker2: that's the one, then.

speaker1: if you emailed an application, we've got it and we'll keep you in mind. 
speaker2: just following up with an in-person visit.
speaker1: mission accomplished.
speaker2: you have a great location here.
speaker1: not with unimart half a mile away.
speaker2: i used to work for unimart! i could spill you some 411.
speaker1: what's that mean?

speaker1: i know their trade secrets. 
speaker2: what secrets? traffic boosters, loss leaders and bait and switch!
speaker1: and i'm ready to learn new strategies. i'll stop by again so you can keep me in mind.
speaker2: if you won't work sundays, don't bother.
speaker1: i'll work every day.
speaker2: that's what i already do...

speaker1: oh, i remember you. larry crowne. i never forget anyone who quits on me. 
speaker2: as i recall, i gave my notice and worked all my shifts and that was 12 years ago.
speaker1: as i recall, i had to hire and train a line cook to take your place. walking out doesn't happen in a vacuum, you know.
speaker1: doesn't mean i wouldn't give you a job again. but you've been out of the business a long time, and look around. i don't need you.

speaker1: you come in two weeks ago i would have kissed you on the mouth, but carlos and nick, they walked in. best i can do? put you at the top of the list. 
speaker2: dang the timing, kimosabe. wish i could help you but raul runs the back.

speaker1: not sure i could work here anyway. the atmosphere is too pleasant and the clientã¨le too a number 1. 
speaker2: breakfast on the house. chorizo scramble, right?
speaker1: no charity today. i got things to do.
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: nothing. i was just saying that.

speaker1: there's been a yard sale at 1402 derby court since monica lewinsky! that gives me a monopoly on the location! you go yard on me, larry crowne and i will destroy you. 
speaker2: lamarr sits on a for-sale chair.
speaker1: friday. security sees you off, by the time monday comes around the fired man is the forgotten man. diabolical.
speaker3: they said it's because i didn't go to college.
speaker1: smoke screen. the man just wanted you gone. you liquidating assets to raise cash?
speaker3: buying out denise's half of the house was the worst advice, ever.
speaker1: i told you to avoid divorce lawyers. get married. stay married. come with me.
speaker1: i'll tell you straight up - i'm not lending you money.

speaker1: whole box of cha-cha records from the fifties. you don't have any of these, i promise. 
speaker2: he can't afford 'em lost his job

speaker1: no! unimart just lost my business forever! 
speaker2: i love you too.
speaker1: sorry, lie-bare-eye-bee. get a better job somewhere so you can crush them.
speaker2: hard to do.
speaker3: he's going to get something better than a job.
speaker3: an education.
speaker3: get some knowledge and you'll be fire proof.
speaker2: aren't there unemployed engineers and geophysicists?
speaker1: listen to my husband. hasn't called a man boss in years. paid off the house.
speaker2: you won the lottery.
speaker1: picked 8 little numbers when i kept saying he was a fool. a quarter million dollars later i've shut up.
speaker3: lost half to taxes.
speaker2: i'll see if there's a class in here for powerball 250.

speaker1: that's half a buck for the book. 
speaker2: they give these away free.
speaker1: they do. i don't.

speaker1: back to college, huh? 
speaker2: first time. i was in the navy.
speaker1: coast guard. adventure of a lifetime.
speaker2: galley mate.

speaker1: we teach a whole track in hotel and restaurant food preparation. 
speaker2: no. no, no. i need an all-new career and a place to go everyday.
speaker1: those two things are my specialty.
speaker1: first thing. bravo for choosing east city college. never too late for an education. second, you need a jolt to the confidence machinery.
speaker1: i am going to change your life. speech 217: the art of informal remarks, cause it's not enough to just be smart anymore, you have to project ease even when it ain't easy.
speaker2: is this public speaking?
speaker1: it's training. job interviews will be a breeze with the confidence you'll get from speech two one seven. and you'll spend three hours a week with the most attractive package in all of academia. the golden girl of east city.
speaker1: mercedes tainot.

speaker1: please enter your destination. 
speaker2: i'm here. shut up. turn off!
speaker2: jerk!
speaker3: sorry! parking's impossible today!
speaker2: are you new to the faculty?
speaker3: new to the student body.
speaker2: this is the faculty lot. we've earned degrees for these spaces.
speaker3: i'm going to be late for my first day of school.
speaker2: i bet it won't be the first time.

speaker1: she laughs. 
speaker2: my day has just been made and it's only 8:02 in the morning!
speaker2: this class...is cancelled!!
speaker2: the city charter requires a minimum of ten students per class, otherwise it costs more to have us here than not. did you really want a class at 8 am? i didn't. throw out those alarm clocks!
speaker3: please tell me this is speech 217.
speaker4: she underlines it four times.
speaker2: while earning a masters in shakespearean political discourse from vassar, i learned to care. caring is a prerequisite for this class i have to teach in this

speaker1: participate. show up on time. care. and stay awake the 55 minutes three dawns a week i have to be here, or i will fail you and not care. my name is ms. tainot. not 'tie- knot'. tay-no. you will each address the class on wednesday. a procedure. how. to do. something. 
speaker2: ms. tie-knot?
speaker2: uh, tay-knot...tai-bo...
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: steve dibiasi. friends call me nomad. only two days before i gotta get up and give my address?
speaker1: why are you here, steve?
speaker2: counsellor busik said this class would change my life.
speaker1: busik. of course...
speaker2: i gotta take this...

speaker1: look at us, in two classes in a row. 
speaker2: yes. hi.
speaker1: that ms. tainot is something else isn't she? i'm new to this coll ge life and, i confess, she sca es e this whole place scares me.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i woke up this morning so nervous about the first day of school. i changed my clothes three times.
speaker1: i'm sorry. larry crowne, and i'm babbling.
speaker2: i am lala.
speaker3: i order you to turn off all cell phones, smart phones, and any phone- like devices!
speaker3: you have entered the knowledge zone!! econ prime! one textbook! written by? ed matsutani, phd. that's me! read this book follow into the promised land!

speaker1: he laughs mock 
speaker2: that usually scares people. yet none of you have fled. a good economic indicator.
speaker3: i like this guy...
speaker4: yes...

speaker1: but no one else is showing up. the clock shows 3:09. mercedes tainot what happened to the 16 sign-ups? 
speaker1: shakespeare as i know him... is cancelled.

speaker1: what's cookin' joe college? 
speaker2: money woes. paying for gas, getting to school.
speaker2: you ever come across a moped or a scooter for sale or trade?
speaker1: come with me.

speaker1: your next wife might stand smoking that pipe in the house but your first one says 'uh-uh!' 
speaker2: passing through, woman...
speaker1: larry crowne, been thinking about you. sit down here...
speaker3: "college graduate."
speaker1: that's going to be you someday.

speaker1: you have money in all those records. if you can part with them, they'd go for something on the ebay. i'll show you how... 
speaker2: this what you're talking about?
speaker3: that's a hunk of junk.
speaker2: this is classic.
speaker3: it doesn't work.
speaker2: it will for eight hundred dollars.
speaker3: two hundred.
speaker2: seven hundred.
speaker3: two hundred.
speaker2: six fifty.
speaker3: two hundred.
speaker2: six thirty.
speaker1: gonna be a long night with you two.
speaker3: forget it.
speaker2: larry! the secret of any negotiation is for both of us to win talk to me how much do you

speaker1: beautiful. i'll throw in a helmet. 
speaker1: gas. brake. light's busted. tires are low. you'll need a special license.
speaker2: all i need is the open road.
speaker1: you break it, you bought it.
speaker2: it still works.
speaker1: talking about the hedge.

speaker1: first day of term calls for a celebration! 
speaker2: you'd think so.
speaker1: what's your burden this go round?
speaker2: tap dancing. ping pong. water torture. and speech at sunrise
speaker1: i built a flamethrower of a posting for warriorweb which, if i do say, will feed nicely as an outline for
speaker1: y u don't believe me.
speaker2: why wouldn't i believe you?
speaker1: i was composing, mercy. that's what i do all day.
speaker2: you were looking at porn. she takes a nice pull on that icy drink. oh fine. thought police. i saw some erotica. i'm a man, i admit it.
speaker2: took you a while.

speaker1: it's barely porn. i'm not hiding it. 
speaker2: yes you are.
speaker2: brain freeze.
speaker1: don't chug. sip.
speaker1: everyone hides something.
speaker2: i have no secrets from you. i share the whole miserable slate.
speaker1: you walked in the door off because -- i'm sorry -- i've established a beach head in new media while you still have to teach at vassar of the valley. you hide that.
speaker2: you look at bra-busters triple-x expecting me to pretend i don't know or i don't care. i do both and don't like it.
speaker1: it may look like i don't work hard around here, mercy. but i do. i'm just a guy who's a guy being a guy when you're not around...
speaker1: and walking away is great for a relationship...

speaker1: i'm a guy. who's a guy. being a guy... 
speaker2: how you doing...
speaker3: speck-tack-alar.
speaker3: nice machine. where you headed?
speaker2: work.
speaker3: school. college. i'm a student.
speaker2: i'm a gynecologist.
speaker3: yeah? i'd say 'have a great day' but that would be stating the
speaker4: the light changes.
speaker3: you take care.

speaker1: where'd you get the hot wheels? 
speaker1: that machine's a classic.
speaker2: got me here for a nickel's worth of gas.
speaker1: you're in matsutani's econ with me.
speaker2: i am?
speaker1: that class is straining my coconut.
speaker2: it's only been one day
speaker1: didn't know you scooted.
speaker2: new to the sport.
speaker1: give me your number. i'll introduce you to like-minded enthusiasts.
speaker1: name please?

speaker1: larry crowne. with an 'e'. 
speaker2: 'larry'? i don't think so. i used to be kathleen but one day i looked in the mirror and saw a girl named talia. putting you in as 'lance'. check your texts and we'll do us some scooting.
speaker2: gotta tell you, lance. tucking a polo shirt into khakis makes you look like a cop.
speaker1: not much fashion sense.
speaker2: i know! gotta change that...
speaker1: gotta go!
speaker2: then get going!!

speaker1: we now all know how to burpie. 
speaker1: who's next?
speaker1: make me the bad guy.
speaker1: ms. crowne?
speaker2: you mean me?
speaker1: mr. crowne. my bad.
speaker1: go.
speaker2: my presentation will be on the subject of a very particular procedure. "how to make french toast", but i'll speak english...
speaker1: m classes were once filled with e rnest young men ready to learn all i had to teach them. cute boys fresh out of high school who all had crushes on me from day one. now look at my cadre. dibiasi. bound for jail. mack. treating college like another tour of combat. crowne. if this was hamlet, he'd be osric in act 5. the part that is always cut.

speaker1: busik, i am going to kill you. you can't suggest these saps take shorthand or oral hygiene? bring me in at this ungodly hour for 2 minutes on french toast? 
speaker2: most people think syrup comes out of a plastic bottle.
speaker1: great. the history of the sugar maple tree now. thank you wikipedia. larry still has a dozen cards to go.
speaker2: that went fast...
speaker1: breakfast may never be ready.
speaker1: next.
speaker3: i'll go. but you aren't going to like it.
speaker1: are you clairvoyant?

speaker1: brown waffles in toaster at lightest or lowest heat setting. an adult should supervise heating by children. applause please. 
speaker2: simple. direct. informative.

speaker1: your mobile, please. 
speaker1: i will return it after class if i don't crush it first.

speaker1: this is lance corona. classmate and good guy, so far. 
speaker2: dell gordo. you want to ride with us?
speaker3: why not.
speaker1: snap along, lance or you can't join the gang.
speaker2: okay. you're in for a trial run.
speaker4: not many of these '66 wasps left around. they had low torque. how's the torque?
speaker3: i just bought it and ride around.
speaker1: stan knows engines and junk.
speaker2: let's go, sweets!
speaker1: we ride, monkey!

speaker1: other than school, i have nothing to do. 
speaker2: let's troll buena vista for junk stores.
speaker3: we hit those last week.
speaker4: if it was saturday we'd look for yard sales.
speaker1: i know where a yard sale is, like everyday.
speaker4: lead the way.
speaker4: monkey! lance knows a yard sale!

speaker1: take point! 
speaker2: follow me, boys and girl!

speaker1: we're being invaded! 
speaker1: larry, what kind of thugs you get in with?
speaker2: college buddies.
speaker1: if they're college buddies why aren't they in college?
speaker3: you have any old clothes?
speaker1: speak to my bride inside.
speaker4: oh man! these tv trays are too much!
speaker1: bargains at $100 apiece.
speaker4: for these? are you nuts?
speaker1: i'm joking, kid. let's get to haggling.

speaker1: get it. 
speaker1: a buck apiece.

speaker1: ninety-nine dollars apiece. 
speaker2: two bucks apiece!
speaker3: ninety-eight and, kid, i do this every day.

speaker1: layer this... with this. 
speaker2: add this belt?
speaker1: i love this! where did you get it?
speaker2: reeled it in like tuna from the atlantic.
speaker1: diamonds in a diamond mine.
speaker1: take this... under this...unbutton that.
speaker2: you and i are going to spend some time together!

speaker1: i gotta see chez lance. 
speaker2: entrez vous, sea food plate.
speaker1: no sign of a woman around here for years. drape a scarf over that lamp and you'll soften the light. no tv, b t vinyl disks of music? you trying to seduce me?
speaker1: alphabetical order. no artistic chaos for you.
speaker1: spin this platter, mr. dj?
speaker2: good choice.

speaker1: did denise make you breakfast in here with a little apron and lipstick perfectly applied? 
speaker2: i did most of the cooking, actually.
speaker2: you know about denise?
speaker1: patience thought she was stuck up and seriously fleeced you.
speaker1: so what happened there, my lance?
speaker2: the usual stuff between three people.
speaker1: she must have been pretty.
speaker1: fair haired or dark?
speaker2: dark.
speaker1: like me.
speaker1: so? how about a demonstration?
speaker2: stay outta my way.

speaker1: cooking for friends is sort of fun. 
speaker2: that corn bread i smell?
speaker3: kitchen, monkey!
speaker2: corn pone!
speaker3: lance made all this. you should have seen him. he was like...
speaker2: you're like uncle ben or something.
speaker1: he is?
speaker2: said the thing was a time bomb.

speaker1: lance, raise your right hand and say something patriotic. 
speaker2: 'we'll be right back after these messages.'
speaker1: you're in the street patrol. a full-time mission for beauty and justice.
speaker3: that denise. what a fool. you a e way cooler than you appear.
speaker1: lance. all men fall in love with talia. you will too, if you haven't already. but i love her the most. know that right now.
speaker2: capice.
speaker1: seriously. don't make me keep my eyes on you. what's your real name?
speaker2: l rry.
speaker1: mine's don. shake hands.
speaker1: look each other in the eyes. firm grips. no contest, but firm. hold.
speaker1: one word, lance. peace.
speaker2: peace indeed.

speaker1: act i: inventory. what do you sell? act two? to market. reach your buyers. act three? three legs of accounting. receivable. payable. due. act four? forward planning. plan to grow. act five? final profitability. what do you clear on bottom-line? 
speaker1: in other words: "to be or not to be... in business."

speaker1: for business, social, and self- improvement workshops, email me: francestaylor-briegh@dynasem.com. 
speaker2: did you notice? no script. no notes. so it can be done.
speaker2: white, siler and koss, you are up next time.
speaker2: you did good, fran. thanks.
speaker1: anything for the woman who brought out the public speaker in frances taylor-briegh.
speaker1: i used you as a focal reference but you weren't there for me. what's wrong, mercy?
speaker1: i broke up with the orthodontist. now i have to get a new boyfriend and a new orthodontist. you ever do that? get crushes on people you see every day after ignoring them and then find out they're creeps after all?
speaker2: mr crowne? can you move along

speaker1: that was a great presentation. i learned a lot from it. 
speaker2: super.
speaker1: smart stuff. super smart.
speaker2: ethel's here, lucy. what's going on?
speaker3: when was the last time you looked at your life and saw nothing but fraud and desperation?
speaker2: mercy. you're an idol to me. hearing you talk like that is crushing my dreams.
speaker3: well i'm joking of course!!!
speaker4: if the balance on axis a is the same metric as axis b you're in deficits because of overhead, taxes, and re-investment.
speaker4: translation? ms. francesco?
speaker5: something complicated.
speaker4: ms. pinedo?

speaker1: mr. crowne? 
speaker2: breaking even is not making profit, it's a theoretical assumption. economics abhors an assumption.
speaker1: someone's been reading my book.
speaker1: the break even paradox creates a new metric...

speaker1: so what happens here? 
speaker2: you ready?

speaker1: holy smokes! 
speaker1: you got inventory.
speaker2: i started in the smallest unit.
speaker1: this is just sitting here? talia! this is unproductive capital! sell it on ebay.
speaker2: no one should ever buy clothes off the internet. you have to feel the fabric and test the drape...
speaker1: what is all this worth?
speaker2: a lot to me. try these on.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: anywhere. fashion is no place for modesty. strip.

speaker1: this is a service to humankind, lance. it hurts me to see a top cat dressed like an ex-hockey player. you gotta look gorgeous from shoe to collar. starting now. 
speaker2: monkey! thought you might be here.
speaker1: lance! my boyfriend's here! put your pants on! larry, in fact, has his pants off.
speaker3: she is driving home.
speaker4: please enter your destination.
speaker5: go to hell...

speaker1: candles. flowers. in other words, he's making up. mercedes comes in through the door. sees what's up. 
speaker2: no argument here, mercy. fact: i'm a dope. fact: my wife is beautiful and brilliant. and i will be a good boy from now on. why? because you're right and i've learned my lesson. just don't be mad at me forever. i have a pliable soul and i pray you do too

speaker1: ah. that was nice. 
speaker2: it was. yes.
speaker1: been thinking. if you ever want to take a whack at writing something -- say a blog a couple of times a week -- i could help you out.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: i'd read your stuff. make comments to make it web-savvy. pieces need to pop, you know. takes a little

speaker1: okay. 
speaker2: see? you can't stay mad at me. no reason to be mad at me...
speaker2: i'm just a guy who's a guy being a guy...

speaker1: this is denise. how can i help you. 
speaker2: denise. larry.
speaker1: my larry crowne. i remember you.
speaker2: this a good time?
speaker1: other than me being at work?
speaker2: i'll call you later.
speaker1: i'm surprised is all. what do you want?

speaker1: well. okay. uh. here's the deal. 
speaker2: spit it, lar.
speaker1: i'm going to miss a few months on the checks for the house.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i hoped not to, but i there it is.
speaker2: okay. yeah.
speaker1: i'm sorry.

speaker1: how many months? 
speaker2: let's start with six.
speaker1: that can't happen, larry. i'm extended. i've put a deposit down on the first vacation i've had in 5 1/2 years. my expenses are as valid as yours, so i need the checks like always. a deal's a deal.

speaker1: i don't have it. 
speaker2: that's not my problem. take out a loan on the house or something.
speaker1: i tried. i'm too much of a risk.
speaker2: oh, i'm not touching that. i don't want to open up the whole lawyer thing, but i will if pushed. doesn't it? i appreciate the rigorous crowne honesty, but this can't happen.
speaker2: these calls are monitored to guarantee customer satisfaction, so i'm hanging up before my supervisor comes on...

speaker1: can i smell trouble or what? 
speaker2: can you speak english?
speaker1: those two over in booth 6...
speaker1: homeland security. i piped thei badges and everything.
speaker2: what is homeland security doing here...

speaker1: this is larry crowne? 
speaker2: raul? yes.
speaker1: get your down here. you got a job.
speaker2: i do?

speaker1: we're swamped, kimosabe. get back there! 
speaker2: you're late on your first day!

speaker1: the uss coral sea. 
speaker1: boss, i don't want to quit school.
speaker2: so don't.
speaker1: i gotta get to class before i miss the whole day. and i can't work mornings mondays, wednesdays, fridays.
speaker2: soon as the rush is finished, go. i'll get my brother-in-law three days a week. you take evenings. deal?
speaker1: deal. when will we talk salary?
speaker2: never. this is take it or leave it. don t worry. i may be tough but i'll be fair.

speaker1: these are not toys. nobody 'plays' with these. these are kept behind glass, so no way am i passing them around today. 
speaker2: wait a ding dong minute. 1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9. someone is missing! who cut my class?
speaker2: where's larry crowne?!

speaker1: guess larry's out today. 
speaker2: anyone know why?
speaker1: he didn't call me.
speaker2: i don't believe this! ditching me? he ditched me? not okay. larry crowne, you are on my list.
speaker3: sounds like teacher has a thing for a teach-ee.
speaker4: when you were out last week, she said nothing. i think she has a crush on larry crowne.
speaker5: i do too. he's a nice man.
speaker1: should i continue?
speaker2: yes. tell us more about your man dolls.
speaker1: i'm sure everyone recognizes boba fett...

speaker1: i'm sorry i'm late, dr. matsutani. 
speaker2: this is college, mr. crowne. the only thing you can't do is smoke in the building. hand over your phone.
speaker2: i'm going to ask a question in a moment. i want someone other than you to answer it - i don't care if the silence is positively arctic. larry moves to take a seat.
speaker2: this brings us to a dreaded task to every corporate entity. what is the purpose of semi-annual re- purposing? anyone?
speaker2: anyone?
speaker1: lala... to upload market differences without...
speaker3: without mooting the quarterlies. i know.
speaker1: then say it.
speaker1: just give the answer. you know it.
speaker3: can i?

speaker1: insist. 
speaker2: to up... met... es without ...ing ...terly predicts....?
speaker3: i know what you mean, but please share it with your classmates?
speaker2: to upload market differences without mooting quarterly predictions.
speaker3: does this affect the value index?
speaker2: no. only the profit markdown.
speaker3: someone is doing the reading!

speaker1: is that larry crowne!? 
speaker1: you have a lot of nerve showing your face on campus after ditching my class!
speaker2: i'm sorry, ms. tainot. i will not miss another class, this i vow.

speaker1: vows come cheap, larry crowne. you'll lead off next assignment with three minutes on a personal first. a story, with details, not a laundry list or slide show. and, as i told dibiasi, no one wants to hear about the first time you got laid. 
speaker1: or the most recent.
speaker2: that woman is one clenched fist of fury.

speaker1: she must not be having any amok lovin'. 
speaker2: that makes me cranky, too.
speaker1: without a workout in the inner sanctum a few times a week i can't concentrate.
speaker3: inappropriate subject in mixed company.
speaker2: for girl-talk this is nothing.

speaker1: you you want to fix it with your teacher? bang her. 
speaker2: she's marred.
speaker1: you'd kill two birds in one bush. nothing wrong with a campus romance. otherwise life is what? breakfast work, coffee, school, lunch, scoot, class, shop, talk, mexican food, a movie, glass of wine or two then bed? that's not living.
speaker3: not without some smooching time.
speaker1: bet she'd give you an a plus.
speaker1: if you're any good...

speaker1: more complimentary coffee? 
speaker2: complimentary coffee is usually lousy.
speaker1: i drink it all day.
speaker1: so? you're back!

speaker1: i got a job. 
speaker2: atta baby!
speaker1: perry's coffee shop. breakfast all day. and i'm going to school.
speaker2: at east city. i see. larry, this doesn't change anything.
speaker1: i was afraid of that.
speaker2: the interest alone will eat up your service industry salary.
speaker1: you said come back in a few weeks.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: i will personally take this to my supervisor and fight to get you the loan you need. but you know how complimentary coffee is always lousy? your chances are, too.
speaker1: i can't make the payments on the house. i'm going to lose it, aren't i?
speaker2: stop with the gloomy puss. you're doing everything right. hang in there. you still have a friend at riverbank.
speaker1: you guys are forced to say that, aren't you?

speaker1: i think it's letting up. 
speaker2: it's going to storm till next year.
speaker1: we can't stay here all day. find a raincoat and let's get a little wet.
speaker2: i do not scoot in the rain.
speaker1: how you going to get to school then, college co-ed belle?
speaker2: my savior! look at your new schmatas.
speaker2: and footwear! stay dry, sweetie!
speaker3: i got engaged to a teacher/writer with two books in print...

speaker1: i never read them. 
speaker2: who did? i'm married to an ex- teacher turned blogger with two books in print. and oh, yes, he has the libido and internet access of a 13-year-old.
speaker1: i had a boyfriend who owned every movie sophia loren ever made. i d hear a dvd go into the playe an knew what i was going to be doing in a half-hour.
speaker2: once more to divorce court to cashier a spouse, line my cloak with alimony and do myself homage.
speaker1: othello. act 1. scene 1. iago to roderigo.
speaker2: why can't all my students be like y u?
speaker1: because, as i learned in your class, i am one of a kind.
speaker1: hey, that guy's in your class.

speaker1: and that toy poodle he keeps on a leash! 
speaker1: that's why he's in college! to get laid!
speaker2: it happens.
speaker1: you are everything that's wrong with america, larry crowne!

speaker1: woah! larry crowne, i didn't know you were gay. you've gone all project runway on us. 
speaker2: should i begin?
speaker2: first crossing of the equator...

speaker1: talking to herself in the movie 
speaker2: oh shut up you sleaze. jerk.
speaker2: look at the new pants. they actually fit. and that jacket is 'smart'. did busik put larry crowne into fashion for creeps? an old goat dressed like lamb.
speaker2: of course! it's that doe-eyed young thing he's been wearing on his sleeve. dressing like he's half his age. give me a shotgun!
speaker2: am i being unfair? i mean, if i were single and some young buck took to me, wouldn't i be inclined to diddly-dally?
speaker1: youth wouldn't be the only requirement, of course.
speaker3: what? what he say?
speaker4: unless you're looking at a chart, you don't even know the equator when you cross it...
speaker1: a repackaged larry crowne won't fool me. shame on you. going after jail bait, you criminal.
speaker1: herself at you... no. don't let up. no, mercy. no mercy!

speaker1: anyone recall anything from that? 
speaker2: that larry believed there were signs on posts marking the equator.
speaker3: and that, when it's a first time, they make the rookies dress in drag and sing abba songs?
speaker4: larry worked on an aircraft carrier! night carrier landings are the trickiest flying in world.
speaker1: that was a memorable nugget.
speaker2: larry was stationed in panama! my father is from panama!
speaker1: mr. koss to the lectern, please.

speaker1: woman on deck! 
speaker2: you can't come in here.
speaker1: i'm a friend of lance's.
speaker2: no lance works for me.
speaker2: this is my kitchen and i am the boss.
speaker1: is he, lance?
speaker3: raul's my boss, yeah.
speaker1: rah-ool. rhymes with ya-cool. are ya' cool, raul?
speaker2: sure i'm cool. tough but fair, too.
speaker1: as boss, do you make up the menu?

speaker1: breakfast all day, see. from corn flakes to popovers. we make the best chicken fried steak outside of a truck stop. 
speaker2: can lance take a break?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: the artist formerly known as larry. i need his expertise.
speaker1: lance.

speaker1: square footage at this price is a bargain. 
speaker2: maurice says i'm saving his life by renting the space.
speaker1: this is your matsutani delta number. you net this every month, you cover overhead, and the rest is profit.
speaker2: you sure?
speaker1: chapter four.

speaker1: you make it sound so simple!! 
speaker2: well, back to work!

speaker1: work my off all night trying to get i in' smile out of you! 
speaker2: i'm smiling...
speaker1: like the joker after three apple martinis.
speaker2: if they help, they help.
speaker1: we can't even have a date night now? you can't even chillax for one meal?
speaker2: "chillax?" did you use the word "chillax?" that come from your bloggers thesaurus?

speaker1: please enter your destination. 
speaker2: you lie to me, dean. every day.
speaker3: you looking for a whole new man, mercy? i'm the jerk who has to transform into ultraman to make you happy? no. i like myself, mercy. i put up with you and complain about nothing.
speaker2: i'm not complaining. i'm stating the truth. i teach while you pretend to work.
speaker3: i had three postings today alone. fogcaster, skyscan, and parsectwelve.com
speaker2: those weren't postings. they were comments.
speaker3: hey, booze-illa, who are you to judge me?
speaker3: i know what's really you off. i like big titties. and you don't have any.
speaker3: maybe i should take that back.

speaker1: as soon as i saw you, i said, "i want to go out with that man." 
speaker2: what did you say when i asked you out?
speaker1: i said "yes." you were there, remember?
speaker2: i saw you and i thought "i would be a lucky guy if she'd go out with me."
speaker1: yes you are.
speaker2: honestly, this is about as good a first date goes, isn't it?
speaker1: disaster looms on most first dates, but i'm talking to you like you're a friend i want to make out with.
speaker2: hold that thought.
speaker3: i take it back. i take it back.
speaker4: drive, asshole! drive away!
speaker3: i've been drinking, too.
speaker4: drive straight til you hit a cliff on the coastline!
speaker3: you win! i'm letting you win!

speaker1: loser! i married a loser!!! with a tiny tiny loser! 
speaker2: screw you, you washboard!
speaker1: oh, chillax!!!
speaker3: please enter your destination.
speaker1: i'm throwing rocks at my own car !!
speaker1: the jerk who just deserted me? my husband of 4 friggin' years!

speaker1: lance! chick alert! 
speaker1: you are not going to believe how fate meets cute! she u-turns and larry follows her, confused.

speaker1: ms. tainot? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: larry crowne.
speaker2: christ.
speaker3: and i've been calling you 'lance'.
speaker1: do you need a ride? hop on.
speaker2: and bust up your romp in the glen with bambi?
speaker3: hey. bambi was a boy.
speaker1: i was heading home.
speaker1: right? we're done scooting?
speaker3: not me. i love riding in the night. magic happens.

speaker1: away talia scoots to catch up with the gang. 
speaker2: what do men see in irritating free spirits?
speaker3: seriously. i offer you a ride.
speaker2: seriously. i don't want one.
speaker3: i've yet to give anyone a lift on this but i think i can get you home with a scraped elbow, worst case.
speaker2: i am walking, crowne, as thoughts black boil up from my soul. major consequences sure to follow. you'll read about them on parsectwelve.com.
speaker3: an attractive woman like you walking alone is a idea.
speaker2: i need a man flirting with me right now like i need a dog crapping on my lawn. i'm hoofing it.
speaker3: in those shoes?
speaker2: a man who notices shoes.
speaker2: all right. i'll be your cycle slut.
speaker3: put this on.
speaker3: strap your legs round my engine and

speaker1: it won't be a terrible thing if you kill us both. 
speaker2: ain't you a ball of fun?

speaker1: are you really going to go this slow? 
speaker2: i do want to survive this night.
speaker1: fine. i have time to window shop. oh look, a sale on tires at autousa. and here comes a mailbox. i've never noticed their perfect design and colo scheme. this is so slow a cat could knock us over.

speaker1: where am i taking you? 
speaker2: down to portola and left to havenhurst. havenhurst to palermo.
speaker1: i may use this as a presentation in class.
speaker2: try it and you'll flunk.

speaker1: ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. 
speaker2: i like your class. you're making us all do things we never thought we could.
speaker1: put the shovel away and just get me home, 'kay?
speaker1: hail our city's finest.
speaker2: someone's getting pinched...
speaker1: measure his dick, officer! he's too diminutive to drive!
speaker1: tiny loser!
speaker2: bad night for that guy.
speaker1: best night i've had in years!

speaker1: unit 114. 
speaker2: thanks for the ox-cart ride. like a sleepwalker. stands at the alarm pad.
speaker2: i can see the alarm pad. i know the code. but my hands aren't working.
speaker2: help me.
speaker1: you don't want to give me your pass code.
speaker2: just hold my hand up to the numbers. i'll manage from there.
speaker2: look away now.
speaker2: two two two two. pound.
speaker2: w ere's my purse? oh yeah. my car. the key please? it's buried in that plant.
speaker1: this it?
speaker2: why i think it is!
speaker1: i'll get the door for you

speaker1: take one step inside and i call security. 
speaker1: and forget this ever happened.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this whole sorry chapter tonight.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you passing up gidget for a flat old coot like me.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: what, you have no short-term memory?
speaker2: when i say 'what', it means i get it and have already purposefully forgotten everything. call it irony.
speaker1: sarcasm. irony is when gallant lands in the drunk tank while goofus scoots me home.
speaker2: goodnight, ms. tainot.
speaker1: mrs. i'm mrs. tainot. can you not see that?
speaker2: i assumed you preferred ms

speaker1: when we presume we make a pretty pair of of me and you or something like that. 
speaker1: why aren't you married?
speaker2: that's a long story and it's late.
speaker2: my helmet?
speaker1: help yourself.
speaker1: i noticed something on the ride.

speaker1: you smell good. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: do you have a crush on me? single student. unattainable teacher. it's common.
speaker2: we all have crushes on you. even the gals.
speaker3: you want to make out with me, you can. i know i'm not a third rate audrey hepburn wanna-be but i still
speaker4: come on, gramps. take this ride.

speaker1: my spouse won't be home for 3 to 5 years. 
speaker2: wow...
speaker1: pretty dang good. i still got it, no?
speaker2: yes, you do..
speaker2: in you go. close the door.
speaker2: lock it!

speaker1: goodnight, whoever you are! 
speaker2: whoever i am...

speaker1: oh, and tomorrow... 
speaker1: mercy!!!

speaker1: amid the others... 
speaker2: oh, come on! i left you all set up! what went down?
speaker3: epilog. school today.
speaker2: lance! a betty on your scooter after midnight? holding on, her arms around you, pressed against your back, is a license to at least cop a feel.
speaker3: if we had ended up making out, you still wouldn't hear it.

speaker1: seeing them -- the northern lights, the aurora borealis -- should have been beyond me, but i was a little girl in coach class still awake, a window seat, a moonless night somewhere over greenland with a shimmering curtain of emerald, gossamer light dancing just for me. 
speaker1: that is something i will remember forever.
speaker2: mr. crowne? a moment please?
speaker3: why doesn't she just throw herself at him?
speaker1: this is bordering on harassment now.
speaker4: quiet down. i'm watching the tv show...
speaker5: why doesn't this ever happen to me?

speaker1: i need a few moments alone with mr. 
speaker2: move along folks. privacy's a right in this great nation of ours.
speaker3: you want i should close this door, lock it, and barricade it so you won't be disturbed??
speaker4: how are the triplets? groggy, puffy, and grumpy.
speaker1: last night was a confluence of too many things happening in too short a time span.
speaker4: last i ht? let's see, what was i doing? studying some. working some. can't recall. i've forgotten everything that happened last night as best a gentleman can.
speaker1: i had no right to judge you or your relationships. date who you want.
speaker1: but what happened last night -- between adults -- was inappropriate. if gossip were to circulate, the problem could be more than just embarrassing. my status as a professor could be tarnished.
speaker4: i wouldn't want that.
speaker1: happened before.

speaker1: with parking attendants. strangers at parties when i've had a bit too much of the demon rum. this was the first time with a student. 
speaker1: i hope the entire thing will be forgotten.
speaker2: sure. nothing happened. at all.
speaker1: so there will be no bravado among you and your pals?
speaker2: none.
speaker1: thank you, mr. crowne.
speaker2: i'd better scurry along to dr. matsutani's class. i hope i don't have this same conversation with him. larry leaves - a good mood ruined...

speaker1: puff. don't suck. then... relax. 
speaker1: see? works.
speaker2: i have to sell my car.

speaker1: if i could afford a new top i could afford to keep it. 
speaker2: what's the job paying you?
speaker1: half my unimart salary.
speaker2: you're down, larry crowne. down as dirt.
speaker1: i'm looking back on the year denise left as the good old days.
speaker2: hang in there, neighbor.
speaker1: everyone keeps saying that.
speaker2: i was in the same spot. look what happened.
speaker1: the odds of two people on the same street winning the lottery are worse than one person on the street winning the lottery.
speaker2: i read how the universe is expanding, larry, taking us along with it. that is a wild concept to grasp, but what it means is, we all have to hold on tight sometimes to get to where we're going to be.
speaker1: this thing must be making me dizzy.
speaker2: keep your grip. you'll be okay. it's like the wife always says...

speaker1: ' ind bargains today?' 
speaker2: vick? how you doing? larry crowne.
speaker1: larry. hi.
speaker2: why are you on the register?

speaker1: management execs are now required to put in 8-hour shifts on the floor. every day. no overtime. no bonus. just more hours. cash or unimart bargain card? like you have one of them. 
speaker2: cash. no receipt.
speaker1: you got out of here just in time... 'thank you for choosing unimart, where united we blah blah.'

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: thanks for coming.
speaker1: no notice. no preamble. just an email and a google map.
speaker2: i knew you'd be on the computer.
speaker2: working...
speaker1: point made.
speaker1: so. what up.
speaker2: are we making a mistake here?

speaker1: point made. we could change things. we could start right now. 
speaker2: we could. why should we?
speaker1: because we have history, dean. but first, my thoughts... i've got to address drinking. i should be able to comprehend and respond to both sides of our conversations. and the morning shower should be refreshing, not a hangover cure.
speaker2: i'd like that too.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: you're not a pleasant woman after a few glasses. mornings with you are to be survived.
speaker1: okay. now, you.
speaker2: i see. i'm what this is all about.
speaker1: there are plenty of items on the relationship agenda but let's start here.
speaker2: you're talking about you but you really mean me.
speaker2: i am not yelling or begging or saying you have to stop doing anything. so you don't get to either.
speaker1: i'm not saying that.

speaker1: we've both been here before. why prolong the process? white flag! i give up. this ain't working. 
speaker1: i'll sign papers and checks, see if there's enough for a cool sports car as a reward for the last few years and eventually i will be fine and you will too. but i am never once going to look at myself as another poor divorced guy who could still be married if only he had done the mea culpa bit for all his faults.
speaker1: i just now came up with that, and it is going to be my next posting.
speaker1: i don't think there is anything else to talk about. do you?

speaker1: here i have surprise topics. friday, in a lightning round, you must wax on that topic for 2 minutes without pause, repetition, or lack of charm. no notes. one visual aid. 
speaker1: ms pinedo draw
speaker2: ms. pinedo pulls a paper from the box.
speaker3: 'potatoes?'
speaker1: spuds. can't wait.
speaker4: 'disraeli'? what is that?
speaker1: who is that?
speaker4: it's a guy from disrael. i'm done.
speaker5: 'consumerism'.
speaker1: that's supposed to say 'communism.'
speaker5: the handwriting is loopy. looks like 'consumerism'.
speaker1: fine. 2 minutes on consumerism.
speaker6: 'malpity hoople.'
speaker6: what's this say?
speaker1: no idea. just pick another.

speaker1: at the end of each chapter is a study guide. master those and you will have mastered my book. master my book and you will take over the world. 
speaker1: by now you should be laughing with me.

speaker1: you digging what you see? 
speaker2: you missed matsutani's class.
speaker1: i'm done w th college.
speaker2: what? why?
speaker1: because i'm going into business.
speaker2: talia. don't be a fool. stay in school. don't throw away your education.
speaker1: and don't drink and drive or do drugs and quit smoking and eat vegetables. i don't. i stopped.

speaker1: pretty much. oh, look. maurice gave us free tattoos. i wanted something in japanese so check this out. 
speaker1: that one says 'courage'. that one says 'spirit'. courageous spirit.
speaker2: japanese characters go the other way and that says soy sauce.
speaker1: oh shut up.
speaker2: it does. soy sauce. soy. sauce. quitting school is for dopes.
speaker1: be here for our grand opening!
speaker2: might not make it. i have finals!
speaker3: larry comes into frame, with a hammer and stake.

speaker1: this place anonymous enough? 
speaker2: as long as alcohol's out of my grasp.
speaker1: they have good pie, they say.
speaker2: great. sugar can replace tequila in my bloodstream, my thighs, and the folds in my neck.

speaker1: yep. 
speaker2: you'd think leggy blondes like us would be impervious, right?
speaker3: ladies. bring an appetite?
speaker2: the mark of a restaurant is their key lime pie.

speaker1: no key lime? 
speaker2: cream pies i got.
speaker1: boston cream?
speaker2: boston cream? key lime? lady, you're killing me here.
speaker1: phooey. peach. peach pie.
speaker2: ma'am?
speaker3: i'll have the french toast.
speaker1: french toast?
speaker3: breakfast all day.
speaker3: you won't believe how far i fell on the hooch-o-meter.
speaker1: i have seen it happen a time or two.
speaker3: i kissed a boy.
speaker1: when, third grade?
speaker3: one of my students.
speaker1: you hoor.
speaker1: gimme the friggin' details! he's not a minor is he?

speaker1: older than me. 
speaker2: hugh hefner in your class? what went down?
speaker1: he sort of... rescued me. and...
speaker2: he a fireman who bakes bread?
speaker1: i wanted to be kissed so asked if he wanted to and he did.
speaker2: bold. who is he?

speaker1: you're slipping, larry. 
speaker1: lady says it's not french toast as she knows it.
speaker2: she's insane.
speaker1: take it up with her.
speaker1: no shouting, okay? this is a family friendly establishment.
speaker3: here comes larry, not yet seeing mercedes.
speaker2: frances taylor-briegh. you have a problem with your order?

speaker1: knock larry over with a feather. 
speaker2: mrs. tainot.
speaker3: the student of yours!?
speaker4: this is larry crowne.
speaker2: there's no way in creation i screw up french toast.
speaker4: it was fine, actually.
speaker4: i wanted to see if it was really you cooking back there. and say, howdy. howdy doody.
speaker4: ready for the final?
speaker2: you'll be the judge of that.
speaker2: so, your meal is satisfactory?
speaker4: absolutely.
speaker2: would you let my boss know so i don't lose this job?
speaker4: yes indeed.
speaker2: shall i prepare you another batch?
speaker4: no. thanks.

speaker1: then i will return to my station.. 
speaker2: you kissed the cook...
speaker2: i got a whiff. he smelled like bell pepper.
speaker3: look at the men in my life.
speaker2: blame it on the booze... and collect yourself.
speaker2: you hoor...
speaker3: that's my problem. i'm a drunken hoor.
speaker4: that ends... right now.
speaker4: check please?

speaker1: what a difference from day one. i must be a better teacher than i thought. 
speaker1: dibiasi is nailing it. calimeris stopped up-talking. lala you can't shut up. mack spoke about australia for three minutes and mentioned kangaroos only twice. and larry crowne...

speaker1: i was tough on him. but he learned fast. how he connected the circle of sales to the expanding universe is impressive as hell. i'll never forget about the value index now. 
speaker1: and... he's polite. instead of fighting me off that night, what does he do but kisses me one and then all but tucks me in. what kind of guy does that to a loopy tramp like me? he could have ravaged me. i misread this guy and if i had a brain i'd find a way to steal him away from that cutie pie and keep him for myself. i wonder if he'd like that, if he would... what did i just say?
speaker1: what did i just say about larry crowne?
speaker2: nothing. and i was just wrapping up here.
speaker1: i'm so sorry. please go on.
speaker2: larry? it okay if i get to my climax and denouement?
speaker2: thank you... if it was the romance novelist in him that made victoria the queen become such a pal, chalk it up as another brick in the legacy of ben disraeli -- earl of beaconsfield - educator - and prime minister of great britain. not bad for a jewish guy, huh?

speaker1: not so much as a bump, nomad! 
speaker2: fourth quarter dramatics.
speaker2: not that it mattered to my speech professor...
speaker3: congratulations all of you.
speaker4: who's the mvp, mrs. tainot? can we vote?
speaker3: not me, i have to stay objective.
speaker4: i say... lala!
speaker5: the first to finish. no surprise.

speaker1: this is the last of them. damn, you have a lot of records. 
speaker2: priceless at a buck apiece.

speaker1: a two-bedroom apartment and you don't have room for your furniture? 
speaker2: selling this futon-sofabed? all those years across the street and you've learned nothing.
speaker2: what's the minimum you'll take for this stuff?
speaker3: you'll get me top price.
speaker2: you did learn.
speaker4: pizza at last!
speaker3: here's lunch as promised!

speaker1: son of a cock. larry crowne. 
speaker2: jack strang. wow. this is irony.
speaker1: two extra large. one salad bucket. box of frosty cinnamon eggs. sixteen- fifty.
speaker2: jack. i need two bucks back.
speaker1: tell me about it.
speaker2: ah. forget it. keep the change. strang leaves. larry watches him go.
speaker1: i appreciate it.

speaker1: my next wife just walked in. 
speaker2: i love this business sometimes.
speaker2: something told me you'd be back.
speaker3: larry is arranging his station.

speaker1: larry, your speech 217 teacher has a question about the menu. 
speaker2: go ahead. i'll take the window even though i'm the boss of the whole kitchen.
speaker3: mercedes is having coffee.
speaker4: there's larry crowne. are you allowed to sit?
speaker4: where does perry get his coffee?
speaker5: i add chicory and a bit of vanilla.
speaker4: you're probably wondering why i stopped by. well, it's to tell you your grade for speech 217. you killed on the final and have an a. way to go!
speaker4: actually, everybody got an a, but you got the special a where i tell you in person.
speaker5: didn't expect that. thanks, mrs.
speaker4: class is out. call me mercedes.
speaker4: so. just wanted to congratulate you. your girlfriend will be thrilled.

speaker1: no. i meant the... never mind. 
speaker1: which classes are you going to ace next term?
speaker2: this has turned into a full time gig. out of necessity.
speaker1: i hope you continue your education. back at east city. you've made such a good start.
speaker2: i'll have to see.
speaker1: i got speech 217 moved to 10 am, thank who knows what i'll hear with the extra sleep.
speaker2: my first class in college ever. and i get an a. gotta be the teacher.
speaker1: should get going.
speaker1: you don't know anything about car devices, do you?
speaker2: cars not much. devices some.
speaker3: please enter your destination.
speaker1: oh be quiet.

speaker1: it is hellspawn. 
speaker2: in my old job, i'd have steered you to a vortex unit. the mapgenie interface is clumsy and the menu needs too many inputs.
speaker1: it was working fine. then i think i pressed too many buttons.
speaker2: ah. the auto on feature is engaged. menu. select. features. auto voice. select. change? yes. on. off. done? yes. save. back. back. back. exit.
speaker2: how long was this broken?
speaker1: seemed like years and years.
speaker2: all better now. should be able to find your way. nothing to do now but say goodbye. they hear a pounding.
speaker2: my boss. back to work.
speaker2: thanks for the good news...

speaker1: i gotta get off, baby, or i'm in hot water with professor tai-bo... 
speaker2: is larry with you?
speaker3: um, no. should we track him down and drag him in here?
speaker2: i... seeing you all... i just thought...
speaker2: choose a seat and lets get started!

speaker1: all the excitement of first day of term, i don't want to go back to my empty apartment. do you? i need a drink and some talk and some wind- down time. don't you? 
speaker2: ms. tainot?
speaker3: dr. m.
speaker2: larry crowne is taking six units from me, devouring the material like a starving man.
speaker3: larry's enrolled?
speaker2: he's continuing his education and tells me it is because of you. that your class changed his life. mercedes finds herself smiling -- beaming...
speaker3: larry said that about me?
speaker1: oh yeah! i put that guy in your class. so technically, i changed his life.
speaker3: he is a good student

speaker1: and handy on a scooter. 
speaker1: is there any chance you would consider having drinks with an older faculty peer who holds a phd in economics?
speaker2: well, no. no offense dr. m.
speaker1: the rumor is you are newly single and i was just taking a shot.
speaker2: news travels fast.
speaker3: if you're going out, i'm not doing anything.
speaker1: have you ever been to hooters?
speaker3: for the spicy wings, yes!
speaker4: right turn.
speaker2: got it turning right

speaker1: your destination is ahead on the right. 
speaker2: it is? that was a breeze. thank you.

speaker1: i love that blouse with that skirt but i'd show more leg if i were you. 
speaker2: i'm mercy tainot
speaker1: bambi romp in the glen. looking for lance?
speaker2: 4225 harbor?
speaker1: this is 4227.
speaker1: 4225. you'll see the stairs.
speaker1: little higher heels'll get you wolf whistles.

speaker1: did you tell ed matsutani taking my class changed your life? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: i met you. that's it.

