speaker1: one minute. this is the beginning. we're at ground zero. maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion. 
speaker2: ... i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
speaker2: with a gun barrel between your teeth, you only speak in vowels.
speaker2: i can't think of anything.
speaker2: with my tongue, i can feel the rifling in the barrel. for a second, i totally forgot about tyler's whole controlled demolition thing and i wondered how clean this gun is.
speaker1: it's getting exciting now.
speaker2: that old saying, how you always hurt the one you love, well, it works both way.
speaker2: we have front row seats for this theater of mass destruction. the demolitions committee of project mayhem wrapped the foundation columns of ten buildings with blasting gelatin. in two minutes, primary charges will blow base charges, and those buildings will be reduced to smoldering rubble. i know this because tyler knows this.
speaker1: look what we've accomplised. thirty seconds.
speaker2: somehow, i realize all of this -- the gun, the bombs, the revolution -- is really about marla singer.
speaker2: bob had

speaker1: this was a support group for men with testicular cancer. the big moosie slobbering all over me was bob. 
speaker2: we're still men.
speaker1: yes. we're men. men is what we are.
speaker1: six months ago, bob's testicles were removed. then hormone therapy. he developed because his testosterone was too high and his body upped the estrogen. that was where my head fit -- into his huge, sweating that hung enormous, the way we think of as big.
speaker2: they're gonna have to open my pec's again to drain the fluid.
speaker2: okay. you cry now.
speaker1: wait. back up. let me start earlier.
speaker1: for six months. i could not sleep.

speaker1: when deep space exploration ramps up, it will be corporations that name everything. the ibm stellar sphere. the philip morris galaxy. planet starbucks. 
speaker2: i'm going to need you out-of-town a little more this week. we've got some "red-flags" to cover.
speaker1: it must've been tuesday. he was wearing his "cornflower-blue" tie.
speaker1: you want me to de-prioritize my current reports until you advise of a status upgrade?
speaker2: you need to make these your primary "action items."
speaker1: he was full of pep. must've had his grande latte enema.
speaker2: here are your flight coupons. call me from the road if there are any snags. your itinerary...

speaker1: like everyone else, i had become a slave to the ikea nesting instinct. 
speaker1: yes. i'd like to order the erika pekkari slip covers. jack drops the open catalog on the floor.
speaker1: if i saw something like clever coffee table sin the shape of a yin and yang, i had to have it.
speaker1: like the johanneshov armchair in the strinne green stripe pattern...

speaker1: or the rislampa wire lamps of environmentally-friendly unbleached paper. 
speaker1: even the vild hall clock of galvanized steel, resting on the klipsk shelving unit.
speaker1: i would flip through catalogs and wonder, "what kind of dining set defines me as a person?" we used to read pornography. now it was the horchow collection.
speaker1: no, i don't want cobalt. oh, that sounds nice. apricot.
speaker1: i had it all. even the glass dishes with tiny bubbles and imperfections, proof they were crafted by the honest, simple, hard-working indigenous peoples of wherever.

speaker1: no, you can't die of insomnia. 
speaker2: maybe i died already. look at my face.
speaker1: you need to lighten up.
speaker2: can't you give me something?
speaker2: red-and-blue tuinal, lipstick-red seconals.
speaker1: you need healthy, natural sleep. chew valerian root and get some more exercise.

speaker1: i'm in pain. 
speaker2: you want to see pain? swing by first methodist tuesday nights. see the guys with testicular cancer. that's pain.

speaker1: i... wanted three kids. two boys and a girl. mindy wanted two girls and one boy. we never could agree on anything. 
speaker1: well, she had her first child a month ago, a girl, with her new husband... and, thank i'm glad for her, because she deserves... the speaker breaks down, weeps uncontrollably.
speaker2: everyone, let's thank thomas for sharing himself with us.
speaker3: thank you, thomas.
speaker2: i look around this room and i see a lot of courage. and it gives me strength. we give each other strength.
speaker2: it's time for the one-on-one. let's follow thomas's example and open ourselves.
speaker2: can everyone find a partner?
speaker4: the big moosie, his eyes already shrink-wrapped in tears. knees together, invisible steps.
speaker4: bob was a champion bodybuilder. you know that chest expansion program you see on tv? that was his idea.
speaker5: ...using steroids. i was a juicer. diabonol, then, wisterol -- it's for racehorses, for christsake. now i'm bankrupt, divorced, my two grown kids won't return my calls...
speaker4: strangers with this kind of honesty make me go a big rubbery one.
speaker5: go ahead, cornelius. you can cry.
speaker4: then... something happened. i was lost in oblivion -- dark and silent and complete.
speaker4: i found freedom. losing all hope was freedom.
speaker4: babies don't sleep this well.
speaker4: i became addicted.

speaker1: tonight, we're going to open the green door -- the heart chakra... 
speaker2: i wasn't really dying, i wasn't host to cancer or parasites; i was the warm little center that the life of this world crowded around.
speaker1: ...and you open the door and you step inside. we're inside our hearts. now, imaging your pain as a white ball of healing light. that's right, the pain itself is a ball of healing light.
speaker1: it moves over your body, healing you. keep this going and step forward, through the back door of the room. where does it lead? to your cave.

speaker1: that's right. you're going deeper into your cave. and you're going to find your power animal... 
speaker2: slide.

speaker1: bob loved me because he thought my testicles were removed too. being there, my face against his tits, ready to cry -- this was my vacation. 
speaker1: and, she ruined everything.
speaker2: this is cancer, right?

speaker1: ... and at "free and clear," my blood parasites group thursdays. 
speaker1: -- and, again, at "seize the day," my tuberculosis friday night.

speaker1: -- but, in here, in everyone, there's the squint of a five-day headache. yet they forced themselves to be positive. they never said "parasite;" they said "agent." they always talked about getting better. 
speaker2: okay, everyone.
speaker2: to open tonight's communion, chloe would like to say a few words.
speaker1: ahh, chloe. chloe looked the way joni mitchell's skeleton would look if you made it smile and walk around a party being extra nice to everyone.
speaker3: well, i'm still here -- but i don't know for how long. that's as much certainty as anyone can give me. but i've got some good news -- i no longer have any fear of death.
speaker3: but... i am in a pretty lonely place. no one will have with me. i'm so close to the end and all i want is to get laid for the last time. i have pornographic movies in my apartment, and lubricants and amyl nitrate ...
speaker2: thank you, chloe. everyone, let's thank chloe.
speaker4: thank you, chloe.

speaker1: now, you're standing at the entrance to your cave. you step inside your cave and you walk. keep walking. 
speaker2: if i did have a tumor, i'd name it marla. marla...the little scratch on the roof of your mouth that would heal if only you could stop tonguing it, but you can't.
speaker1: now, find your power animal.

speaker1: pick someone special to you tonight. 
speaker2: hello, mr. tayler.
speaker3: i never gave my real name at support groups.
speaker3: hi, chloe.
speaker2: we've never actually talked.
speaker3: you look good. you ... look ... like a pirate.
speaker3: excuse me, i have to...
speaker3: we need to talk.
speaker4: sure.
speaker3: i'm on to you. you're a faker. you aren't dying.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: okay, in the sylvia plath philosophy way, we're all dying. but you're not dying the way chloe is dying.
speaker1: tell the other person how you feel.
speaker3: you're a tourist. i saw you at melanoma, tuberculosis and testicular cancer.
speaker4: and i saw you practicing this...
speaker3: practicing what?
speaker4: telling me off. is it going as well as you hoped... ? "... mr. taylor."
speaker3: i'll expose you.
speaker4: go ahead. i'll expose you.
speaker1: share yourself completely.
speaker3: why are you doing this?
speaker4: it's cheaper than a movie, and there's free coffee.
speaker3: these are my groups. i was here first. i've been coming for a year.
speaker4: a year? how'd you manage that?
speaker3: anyone who might've noticed either died or recovered and never came back.
speaker1: let yourself cry.
speaker4: why do you do it?
speaker3: i... i don't know. i guess... when people think you're dying, they really listen, instead...
speaker4: -- instead of just waiting for their turn to speak.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: quietly, now. share with each other.
speaker3: it becomes an addiction.
speaker4: really?
speaker3: look, i can't cry with a faker present.
speaker4: candy-stripe a cancer ward. it's not my problem.
speaker3: please. can't we do something... ?
speaker1: now, the closing prayer.

speaker1: we'll split up the week. you can have lymphoma, tuberculosis and -- 
speaker2: you take tuberculosis. my smoking doesn't go over at all.
speaker1: i think testicular cancer should be no contest.
speaker2: well, technically, i have more of a right to be there than you. you still have your balls.
speaker1: you're kidding.
speaker2: i don't know -- am i?

speaker1: i'll take the parasites. 
speaker2: you can't have both parasites. you can take blood parasites --
speaker1: i want brain parasites.
speaker2: okay. i'll take blood parasites and organic brain dementia --
speaker1: i want that.
speaker2: you can't have the whole brain!
speaker1: so far, you have four and i only have two!
speaker2: then, take blood parasites. it's yours. now we each have three.
speaker2: you... left half your clothes.

speaker1: you're selling those? 
speaker2: yes, i'm selling some chothes.
speaker2: so, we each have three -- that's six. what about the seventh day? i want ascending bowel cancer.
speaker1: the girl had done her homework.
speaker1: i want ascending bowel cancer.
speaker2: that's your favorite, too? tried to slip it by me, eh?
speaker1: we'll split it. you get it the first and third sunday of the month.
speaker2: deal.
speaker2: looks like this is goodbye.
speaker1: let's not make a big thing out of it.
speaker2: how's this for not making a big thing?

speaker1: um... marla, should we maybe exchange numbers? 
speaker2: should we?
speaker1: in case we want to switch nights.
speaker2: i suppose.
speaker2: it doesn't have your name. who are you? cornelius? mr. taylor? dr. zaius? any of the stupid names you give each night?
speaker1: this is how i met marla singer.

speaker1: check-in for that flight doesn't begin for another two hours, sir. 
speaker2: pacific, mountain, central. lose an hour, gain an hour. this is your life, and it's ending one minute at a time.
speaker2: you wake up at air harbor international.

speaker1: everywhere i travel -- tiny life. single-serving sugar, single-serving cream, single pat of butter. 
speaker1: microwave cordon bleu hobby kit.
speaker1: shampoo/conditioner combo. single- serving mouthwash, tiny bar of soap.

speaker1: the people i meet on each flight -- they're single-serving friends. between take-off and landing, we have our time together, but that's all we get. 
speaker1: you wake up at logan.
speaker1: on a long enough time line, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero.
speaker1: i'm a recall coordinator. my job is to apply the formula. it's a story problem.
speaker2: here's where the infant went through the windshield. three points.
speaker1: a new car built by my company leaves somewhere traveling at 60 miles per hour. the rear differential locks up.
speaker3: the teenager's braces around the backseat ashtray would make a good "anti-smoking" ad.
speaker1: the car crashes and burns with everyone trapped inside. now: do we initiate a recall?
speaker2: the father must've been huge. see how the fat burnt into the driver's seat with his polyester shirt? very "modern art."
speaker1: take the number of vehicles in the field, , and multiply it by the probable rate of failure, , then multiply the result by the average out-of-court settlement, . a times b times c equals x...

speaker1: if x is less than the cost of a recall, we don't do one. 
speaker2: are there a lot of these kinds of accidents?
speaker1: oh, you wouldn't believe.
speaker3: ... which... car company do you work for?
speaker1: a major one.
speaker1: every time the plane banked too sharply on take-off or landing, i prayed for a crash, or a mid-air collision -- anything.
speaker1: no more haircuts. nothing matters, not even bad breath.
speaker1: life insurance pays off triple if you die on a business trip.
speaker4: there are three ways to make napalm. one, mix equal parts of gasoline and frozen orange juice...
speaker5: two, equal parts gasoline and diet cola. three, dissolve kitty-litter in gasoline until the mixture is thick.
speaker1: pardon me?
speaker1: this is how i met --
speaker5: tyler durden.
speaker5: you know why they have oxygen masks on planes?
speaker1: no, supply oxygen?
speaker5: oxygen gets you high. in a catastrophic emergency, we're taking giant, panicked breaths...
speaker5: suddenly, we become euphoic and docile. we accept our fate.
speaker5: emergency water landing, 600 miles per hour. blank faces -- calm as hindu cows.
speaker1: what do you do, tyler?
speaker5: what do you want me to do?
speaker1: i mean -- for a living.
speaker5: why? so you can say, "oh, that's what you do." -- and be a smug little about it?
speaker5: you have a kind of sick desperation in your laugh.
speaker1: we have the same briefcase.
speaker5: open it.
speaker5: soap -- the yardstick of civilization. i make and sell soap...
speaker5: if you were to add nitric acid to the soap-making process, one would get nitroglycerin. with enough soap, one could blow up the world, if one were so inclined.
speaker1: tyler, you are by far the most interesting "single-serving" friend i've ever met.
speaker1: you see, when you travel, everything is small, self-contained--
speaker5: the spork. i get it. you're very clever.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker5: how's that working out for you?
speaker1: what?
speaker5: being clever.
speaker1: well, uh... great.
speaker5: keep it up, then. keep it right up.
speaker5: ... as i squeeze past, do i give you the or the crotch?
speaker5: we are defined by the choices we make.
speaker1: how i came to live with tyler is: airlines have this policy about vibrating luggage.

speaker1: throwers don't worry about ticking. 
speaker2: excuse me? "throwers?"
speaker1: baggage handlers. but when a suitcase vibrates, the throwers have to call the police.
speaker2: my suitcase was vibrating?
speaker1: nine time out of ten, it's an electric razor. but, every once in a while ... ...it's a dildo. it's airline policy not to imply ownership in the event of a dildo. we use the indefinite aricle: "a dildo." never "your dildo."
speaker2: i had everything in that bag. my c.k. shirts... my d.k.n.y. shoes...
speaker1: yeah, uh huh... yeah? oh...

speaker1: i'm terribly sorry. 
speaker1: you know the industry slang for "flight attendant?" "air mattress."

speaker1: home was a condo on the fifteenth floor of a filing cabinet for widows and young professionals. the walls were solid concrete. a foot of concrete is important when your next- door neighbor lets her hearing aid go and has to watch game shows at full volume... 
speaker1: -- or when a volcanic blast of debris that used to be your furniture and personal effects blows out your floor- to-ceiling windows and sails flaming into the night.

speaker1: there's nothing up there. 
speaker1: you can't go into the unit. police orders.

speaker1: how embarrassing. 
speaker2: do you have somebody you can call?
speaker3: hissing.
speaker1: the police would later tell me that the pilot light might have gone out... letting out just a little bit of gas.

speaker1: lots of young people try to impress the world and buy too many things. 
speaker2: the gas could have slowly filled the condo. seventeen-hundred square feet with high ceilings, for days and days.

speaker1: if you don't know what you want, you end up with a lot you don't. 
speaker2: if you asked me now, i couldn't tell you why i called him.
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: who's this?
speaker2: tyler?
speaker3: who's this?
speaker2: uh... i'm sorry. we met on the plane. we had the same briefcase.
speaker3: oh, yeah.
speaker2: i just called a second ago. there was no answer. i'm at a payphone.
speaker3: i star-sixty-nined you. i never pick up my phone. what's up?
speaker2: well... let me see... here's the thing...

speaker1: you buy furniture. you tell yourself: this is the last sofa i'll ever need. no matter what else happens, i've got the sofa issue handled. then, the right set of dishes. the right dinette. 
speaker2: this is how we fill up our lives.
speaker1: i guess so.
speaker2: and, now it's gone.
speaker1: all gone.
speaker2: could be worse. a woman could cut off your while you're asleep and toss it out the window of a moving car.
speaker1: there's always that.
speaker2: i don't know, maybe i'm wrong. maybe it's a terrible tragedy.
speaker1: ...no ...no ...
speaker2: i mean, you did lose a lot of nice, neat little the trendy paper lamps, the euro-trash shelving unit, am i right?
speaker2: but maybe, just maybe, you've been delivered.
speaker1: delivered from swedish furniture.
speaker2: delivered from armchairs in obscure green stripe patterns.
speaker1: delivered from martha stewart.
speaker2: delivered from colors like "cobalt," "ebony," and "fuchsia."
speaker1: insurance'll cover it.
speaker2: oh, yeah, you gotta start making the list.
speaker1: what list?
speaker2: the "now i get to go out and buy the exact same stuff all over again" list. that list.
speaker1: i don't... think so.
speaker2: this time maybe get a widescreen tv.
speaker1: well, i have to file a claim...
speaker2: the things you own, they end up owning you.
speaker1: don't i?
speaker2: do what you like.
speaker1: it's late. i should find a hotel...
speaker2: a hotel?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: so, you called me up, because you just wanted to have a drink before you... go find a hotel?
speaker1: i don't follow...
speaker2: we're on our third pitcher of beer.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you called me so you could have a place to stay.
speaker1: no, i...
speaker2: why don't you cut the and ask if you can stay at my place?
speaker1: would that be a problem?
speaker2: is it a problem for you to ask?
speaker1: can i stay at your place?
speaker2: yes, you can.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: you're welcome. but, i want you to do me one favor.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: i want you to hit me as hard as you can.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i want you to hit me as hard as you can.
speaker1: let me tell you a little bit about tyler durden.
speaker3: -- and we see it's pornography.

speaker1: tyler was a night person. he sometimes worked as a projectionist. a movie doesn't come in one big reel, it's on a few. in old theaters, two projectors are used, so someone has to change projectors at the exact second when one reel ends and another reel begins. sometimes you can see two dots on screen in the upper right hand corner... 
speaker2: they're called "cigarette burns."
speaker1: it's called a "changeover." the movie goes on, and nobody in the audience has any idea.
speaker2: why would anyone want this job?
speaker1: it affords him other interesting opportunities.
speaker2: -- like splicing single frames from adult movies into family films.
speaker1: in reel three, right after the courageous dog and the snooty cag -- who have celebrity voices -- eat out of a garbage can, there's the flash of tyler's contribution...
speaker2: one-forty-eighth of a second. that's how long it's up there.
speaker1: no one really knows that they've seen it. but they did.
speaker2: a nice, big cock.
speaker1: only a hummingbird could have caught tyler at work.

speaker1: he was the guerrilla terrorist of the food service industry. 
speaker2: don't watch. i can't if you watch.
speaker2: ... oh, yeah. oh, yeah.
speaker1: he farted on meringue; he sneezed on braised endive; and, with creme of mushroom soup, well...
speaker2: go ahead. say it.
speaker1: you get the idea.
speaker1: i don't know about this.
speaker2: i don't know, either. i want to find out. i've never been hit, have you?
speaker1: no. that's a good thing, isn't it?
speaker2: i don't want to die without any scars. how much can you really know about yourself if you've never been in a fight? come on... you're the only person i've ever asked.
speaker1: me?
speaker2: why not you? i'm letting you go first. do it.
speaker1: this is crazy.
speaker2: alright, go crazy. let 'er rip.
speaker1: where do you want it? in the face?
speaker2: surprise me.
speaker1: sorry. that didn't count.
speaker2: like hell. that counted.
speaker2: how do you feel?
speaker1: strange.
speaker2: but a good strange.
speaker1: is it?
speaker2: we've crossed the threshold. you want to call it off?
speaker1: call what off?
speaker2: the fight.
speaker1: what fight?
speaker2: this fight, pussy.

speaker1: if you could fight anyone... one on one, whoever you wanted, who would you fight? 
speaker2: anyone?
speaker1: anyone.
speaker2: my boss, probably. who would you fight?
speaker1: my dad. no question.
speaker2: oh, yeah. i didn't know my dad. well, i knew him, till i was six. he went and married another woman, had more kids. every six years or so he'd do it again -- new city, new family.
speaker1: he was setting up franchises. my father never went to college, so it was really important that i go.
speaker2: i know that.
speaker1: after i graduated, i called him long distance and asked, "now what?" he said, "get a job." when i turned twenty-five, i called him and asked, "now what?" he said, "i don't know.
speaker2: same here.
speaker1: a generation of men raised by women. i'm wondering if another woman is the answer we really need.
speaker2: we should do this again sometime.

speaker1: where's your car? 
speaker2: what car?
speaker1: i don't know how tyler found the house, but he'd been there for half a year.
speaker1: it looked like it was waiting to be torn down. most of the windows were boarded up.

speaker1: the previous occupant had been a bit of a shut-in. 
speaker2: hum.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: oh, a new riot control grenade... "...the successful combination of concussive, 3000 foot-candle flash- blasts and simultaneous high-velocity disbursement of...blah, blah, blah..."
speaker1: "i am joe's lungs." it's written in first person. "without me, joe could not take in oxygen to feed his red blood cells." there's a whole series -- "i am joe's prostate."
speaker2: "i get cancer, and i kill joe."
speaker1: what are you reading?
speaker2: soldier of fortune. business week.
speaker1: show-off.

speaker1: .... i should have been upset about my nice, neat, flaming little 
speaker1: but i wasn't.

speaker1: most of the week, we were ozzie and harriet. 
speaker1: but, wednesday night, ever wednesday night...

speaker1: the basic premise of cyber-netting your office is -- make things more efficient. 
speaker2: can i get the icon in cornflower blue?
speaker1: absolutely.
speaker3: walter, the microsoft account exec. walter, with his smooth, soft hands. maybe he was thinking about the free- range potluck he'd been to last weekend, or his church-group car-wash fund-raiser. or, probably not.
speaker1: i showed this already to my man here. you liked it, didn't you?
speaker3: you can swallow a pint of blood before you get sick.
speaker1: i'd hate to see what happened to the other guy.
speaker3: screw walter. his candy-ass wouldn't last a second wednesday night.

speaker1: drink up people. we're closing. 
speaker2: it was right in everyone's face. tyler and i just made it visible.
speaker2: it was on the tip of everyone's tongue. tyler and i just gave it a name.

speaker1: welcome to fight club. 
speaker2: every week, tyler gave the rules that he and i decided.
speaker1: the first rule of fight club is -- you don't talk about fight club. the second rule of fight club is -- you don't talk about fight club. the third rule of fight club is -- when someone says "stop" or goes limp, the fight is over. fourth rule is -- only two guys to a fight. fifth rule -- one fight at a time. sixth rule -- no shirts, no shoes. seventh rule -- fights go on as long as they have to. and the eighth and final rule -- if this is your first night at fight club, you have to fight.
speaker2: this kid, ricky -- supply clerk -- couldn't remember whether you ordered pens with blue ink or black ink ...
speaker2: but ricky was a for ten minutes last week when he trounced an actuary twice his size.
speaker2: sometimes all you could hear were flat, hard packing sounds over the yelling, or the wet choke when someone caught their breath and sprayed...
speaker3: ssssstop... !

speaker1: even if i could tell someone they had a good fight, i wouldn't be talking to the same man. 
speaker1: who you were in fight club is not who you were in the rest of the world.

speaker1: what are you getting yourself into every week? 
speaker2: after fight club, everything else in your life gets the volume turned down. you can deal with anything.
speaker1: have you finished those reports?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: the people who had power over you have less and less.
speaker2: by this point, i could wiggle most of the teeth in my jaw.
speaker2: a guy came to fight club for the first time, his was a wad of cookie dough. after a few weeks, he was carved out of wood.
speaker2: if you could fight any celebrity?
speaker3: alive or dead?
speaker2: doesn't matter.
speaker3: hemingway. you?
speaker2: shatner. william shatner.

speaker1: we all started seeing things differently. wherever we went. 
speaker1: i felt sorry for all the guys packing into gyms, trying to look like what calvin klein and tommy hilfiger said they should.
speaker2: self-improvement is masturbation. self-destruction is the answer.
speaker1: you could take him.
speaker2: the trick is not to care.

speaker1: fight club wasn't about winning or losing. it wasn't about words. 
speaker1: they hysterical shouting was in tongues, like at a pentecostal church.
speaker1: ... stop...
speaker1: when the fight was over, nothing was solved, but nothing mattered.
speaker2: cool.
speaker3: how about next week?
speaker1: look at me. how about next month?
speaker1: afterwards, we all felt saved.
speaker2: he fell down some stairs.
speaker1: i fell down some stairs.
speaker1: sometimes tyler spoke for me.

speaker1: fight club became the reason to cut your hair short and trim your fingernails. 
speaker2: any historical figure.
speaker1: okay... ghandi.
speaker2: good answer.
speaker1: you?
speaker2: abe lincoln. big reach. skinny guys fight till they're burger.
speaker2: remember, even the mona lisa's falling apart.

speaker1: where have you been the last few weeks? 
speaker2: marla?
speaker2: how did you find me?
speaker1: the forwarding number. i haven't seen you at any support groups.
speaker2: that's the idea -- we split them.
speaker1: you haven't been going to yours.
speaker2: i found a new one.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: it's for men.
speaker1: like testicular cancer?
speaker2: look, this is a bad time...
speaker1: i've been going to debtor's anonymous. you want to see some truly up people?
speaker2: i'm just on my way out...
speaker1: me too. i got a stomach full of xanax. i took what was left of a bottle. might've been too much.
speaker2: picture yourself watching marla singer throw herself around her crummy apartment.
speaker1: this isn't a for-real suicide thing. this is probably one of those cry-for- help things.
speaker2: this could go on for hours.
speaker2: so you're staying in tonight?
speaker1: do you want to wait to hear me describe death?
speaker3: do you want to listen and see if my spirit can use the telephone?

speaker1: you're not going to believe what i dreamt last night. 
speaker2: i can hardly believe anything about last night.
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker2: what... ?
speaker1: what the are you doing here?
speaker2: you.
speaker3: she's a piece of work. get this -- i come in here last night, the phone's off the hook...

speaker1: i'll tell you when i'm floating out of my body. 
speaker2: how could tyler, off all people, think it was a bad thing that marla singer was about to die?

speaker1: you got here fast. 
speaker1: the mattresses are all sealed in slippery plastic.
speaker1: did i call you?
speaker1: don't worry. it's not a threat to you.
speaker1: oh, no! somebody called the cops...

speaker1: 8-g! where's 8-g? 
speaker2: end of the hall.
speaker2: the girl who lives there used to be a charming, lovely girl, but she's lost faith in herself...
speaker1: miss singer, let us help you! you have every reason to live!
speaker2: she's a monster! infectious human waste! good luck trying to save her!

speaker1: if i fall asleep, i'm done for. you're gonna have to keep me up all night. 
speaker2: unbelievable, huh?
speaker3: he was obviously able to handle it.
speaker2: i mean, this girl... uh, you're not into her or anything... ?
speaker3: no. not at all.
speaker3: i am jack's raging bile duct.
speaker2: you're sure?
speaker3: yeah, i'm sure.
speaker2: good. this chick was up on the table with her legs in the stirrups before the doctor even walked in the room. the things that she said... i've never heard a woman talk like that...

speaker1: how could tyler not go for that? night before last, he was splicing organs into "little mermaid." tyler sits, studies jack's face. 
speaker2: you're okay with this?
speaker1: i'm fine.
speaker1: put a gun to my head and paint the wall with my brains.
speaker2: she is a wild, twisted stay away from that one.
speaker1: oh, and my pace is more librarians.
speaker2: hey... don't knock librarians.
speaker1: marla doesn't need a lover. she needs a case worker.
speaker2: she needs an exorcist. this isn't love. this is sport-fucking.
speaker1: she'd invaded my support groups, now she's invading my home.
speaker2: listen... do me a favor... sit here a minute...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you've gotta understand something about me. i have a little rule, okay? don't ever talk to her about me. ever. i can't stand that kind of
speaker2: if you ever say anything about me or about what happens here in this house, to her or anyone -- i will find out. and you'll never see me again. promise me.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: promise you won't.
speaker1: yes, i promise.
speaker2: promise?
speaker1: i said i promise!
speaker2: that was three times you promised.
speaker1: if only i had wasted a couple of minutes and gone to watch marla die, none of this would have happened.

speaker1: miserable discharge! 
speaker2: i could've moved to another room, one on the third floor -- so i wouldn't have heard them. but i didn't.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i... uh... just going to bed.
speaker1: you want to finish her off?
speaker2: uh... nah...
speaker2: i became the calm, little center of the world. i was the zen master.

speaker1: i faxed them around to everyone. 
speaker2: is that your blood?
speaker1: some of it, yes.
speaker2: take the rest of the day off. come back tomorrow with clean clothes.

speaker1: i got right in everyone's hostile little face. yes, these are bruises from fighting. i'm comfortable with them. i am enlightened. 
speaker1: you give up the condo life, give up all your flaming worldly possessions, go live in a dilapidated house in the toxic waste part of town...

speaker1: ... and you come home to this. 
speaker2: you slut!!
speaker3: thank you, sir, may i have another! thank you sir, may i have another... !
speaker1: yeah. speaking.

speaker1: this is detective stern with the arson unit. we have some new information about the "incident" at your condo. 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i don't know if you're aware... your front door -- it seems someone sprayed freon into the lock, then tapped it with a chisel to shatter the cylinder.
speaker2: no, i wasn't aware...
speaker2: i am jack's cold sweat.
speaker1: does this sound strange to you?
speaker2: yes, sire, strange. very strange.
speaker1: the dynamite...
speaker2: dynamite?
speaker1: yes. it left a residue of ammonium oxalate and potassium perchloride.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: it means it was homemade.
speaker2: this is... really a shock...
speaker1: whoever set this homemade dynamite could've blown out the pilot light days before the explosion. the gas, it seems, was just a detonator.
speaker2: who do you think could've done this?
speaker1: i'll ask the questions, son.
speaker3: tell him...
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: "the liberator who destroyed my property has re-aligned my paradigm of perception."
speaker2: shhhhhh! i don't know what to make of this, sir, i really don't...
speaker1: do you know anyone who'd have the expertise or motive to do something like this?
speaker3: "i reject the basic assumptions of civilization, including material possession." jack pushes tyler away, cups the receiving.
speaker2: no. no, sir. i loved that condo. i loved every stick of furniture. the lamps, the chairs, the rugs, were me. the dishes were me. the plants were...
speaker2: i'd like to thank the academy...
speaker1: well, if any ideas come to you, give me a call. in the meantime, don't leave town. i may need to bring you in for questioning.
speaker4: jack hangs up. tyler shrugs.
speaker3: could be worse. you could be cursed with the three terrible karmas. you could be beautiful, rich and famous.
speaker2: except for their humping, tyler and marla were never in the same room.
speaker5: i got this dress at a thrift store for one dollar.
speaker2: worth every penny.
speaker2: my parents pulled this exact act for years -- one came in, the other disappeared.
speaker5: it's a bridesmaid's dress. someone loved it intensely for one day, then tossed it. like a christmas tree -- so special, then, bam -- it's abandoned on the side of the road, tinsel still clinging to it... jack becomes very aware of having no pants on, presses against the counter. marla pulls her hemline further up.
speaker5: like crime victims, underwear inside-out, bound with electrical tape.
speaker2: it suits you.
speaker5: you can borrow it sometime.
speaker3: get rid of her.
speaker2: you get rid of her.
speaker3: don't mention me.
speaker2: i'm six years old again, passing messages between my parents.
speaker2: i, uh... think you should go now.
speaker2: it's time for you to leave.
speaker5: don't worry, i'm leaving.
speaker5: you're such a nutcase, i can't even begin to keep up.
speaker2: goodbye.
speaker3: nice work.
speaker3: to make soap, first we have to render fat.

speaker1: the best fat for making soap -- because the salt balance is just right -- comes form human bodies... 
speaker2: what is this place?
speaker1: a liposuction clinic.
speaker1: paydirt. from society's richest and thighs.
speaker1: as the fat renders, the tallow floats to the surface. remember the they taught you in boy scouts.
speaker2: hard to imagine you in boy scouts.
speaker1: this clear layer in glycerin. we'll mix it back in when we make the soap.
speaker1: lye -- the crucial ingredient. ancient peoples found their clothes got cleaner if they washed them at a certain spot in the river. why? because, human sacrifices were once made on the hills above this river. year after year, bodies burnt. rain feel. water seeped through the wood ashes to become lye. the lye combined with the melted fat of the bodies, till a thick white soapy discharge crept into the river.
speaker1: the first soap was made from the ashes of heroes. like the first monkeys shot into space.
speaker1: without sacrifice, without death, we would have nothing.
speaker1: this is a chemical burn. it will hurt more than you've ever been burned and you will have a scar.
speaker2: tyler's kiss was a bonfire on the back of my hand.
speaker1: look at your hand.
speaker2: guided meditation worked for cancer, it could work for this.
speaker1: come back to the pain. don't shut this out.
speaker2: i tried not to think of the words "searing" or "flesh." i imagined my pain as a ball of healing white light.

speaker1: stop it. this is your pain -- your burning hand. it's right here. look at it. 
speaker2: i was going to my cave to find my power animal.

speaker1: i... i think i understand. i think i get it... 
speaker2: no, what you're feeling is premature enlightenment.

speaker1: this is the greatest moment of your life and you're off somewhere, missing it. 
speaker2: no, i'm not...

speaker1: shut up. our fathers were our models for and, if our fathers bailed, what does that tell us about god? 
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: listen to me. you have to consider the possibility that doesn't like you, he never wanted you. in all probability, he hates you. this is not the worst thing that can happen...
speaker2: it isn't... ?
speaker1: we don't need him...
speaker2: we don't... ?

speaker1: ... marla ... ? 
speaker2: damnation. redemption. we are unwanted children, with no special place and no special attention, and so be it.
speaker2: you can go to the sink and run water over your hand. look at me. or you can use vinegar to neutralize the burn, but first you have to give up. first, you have to know that someday, you are going to die. until you know that, you will be useless.
speaker1: you ... you don't know what this feels like, tyler.
speaker2: congratulations. you're a step closer to hitting bottom.

speaker1: he was wearing a yellow tie. it must be thursday. i didn't even wear a tie to work anymore. 
speaker2: "the first rule of fight club is you don't talk about fight club."
speaker1: i must've left the original in the copy machine.
speaker2: "the second rule of fight club...
speaker1: hmm?
speaker2: you don't get paid to abuse the copy machine.
speaker1: "abuse" the copy machine. there's an image.
speaker2: pretend you're me. you find this. what would you do?
speaker1: me? i'd be very careful who i talked to about this. it sounds like someone dangerous wrote it... someone who might snap at any moment, stalking from office to office with an armalite ar-10 carbine-gas semiautomatic, bitterly pumping round after round into colleagues and co- workers.
speaker1: might be someone you've known for years... somebody very close to you. or, maybe you shouldn't be bringing me every little piece of trash you pick up.
speaker1: compliance and liability.
speaker3: my tit's going to rot off.
speaker1: just a second. could you excuse me? i need to take this call.
speaker1: what are you talking about?

speaker1: would you do something for me? i need you to check and see if there's a lump in my breast. i can't afford to throw money away on a doctor. 
speaker2: i don't know ...
speaker1: please.
speaker2: she didn't call tyler. i'm neutral in her book.

speaker1: this is a sweet side of you. picking these up for ... "mrs. haniver" and... "mrs. raines." where are they? 
speaker2: tragically, they're dead. i'm alive and i'm in poverty. you want any?
speaker1: no, thanks.
speaker2: good.
speaker2: what happened to your hand?
speaker1: nothing.

speaker1: where? here? 
speaker2: here.
speaker1: there?
speaker2: here.
speaker1: here.
speaker2: feel anything?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: make sure.
speaker1: okay. okay, i'm sure.
speaker2: you feel nothing?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: well, that's a relief. thank you.
speaker1: no... no problem.
speaker2: i wish i could return the favor.
speaker1: i think everything's okay here.
speaker2: i could check your prostate.
speaker1: uh ... nah.
speaker2: well... thanks, anyway.
speaker1: so.... are we done?
speaker2: yeah, we're done. see you around.

speaker1: cornelius! how are you? 
speaker2: bob. i'm okay. how are you?
speaker1: better than i've ever been in my life.
speaker2: really? great. still "remaining men together?"
speaker1: no. i found something new.
speaker2: really, what's that?
speaker1: the first rule is... you aren't supposed to talk about it...
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: and the second rule about it is... you're not supposed to talk about it.
speaker2: bob, bob... i'm a member.
speaker1: you are?!
speaker2: look at my face.
speaker1: that's a great, man! great! congratulations.
speaker2: yeah, both of us.
speaker1: you know about the guy who invented it? i hear all kinds of things. supposedly, he was born in a mental institution. they say he only sleeps one hour a night. you know about this guy? tyler durden?

speaker1: thank you. thank you. 
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker2: fight club -- this was mine and tyler's gift... our gift to the world.

speaker1: no thanks, i quit. 
speaker2: you quit?
speaker1: yeah. where you headed?
speaker2: work. going to work.
speaker2: what... ?
speaker1: nothing. do what you like.

speaker1: we need to talk. 
speaker2: okay. where to begin? with your constant absenteeism? with your unpresentable appearance? you're up for review...
speaker1: i am jack's complete lack of surprise.
speaker1: let's pretend. you're the department of transportation, and you discover that our company intentionally did nothing about leather seats cured in third world countries with chemicals we know cause birth defects? brake linings that fail after a thousand miles. fuel injectors that burn people alive.
speaker2: just who the do you think you are?! get out! you're fired!
speaker1: what about this? keep me on payroll as an outside consultant. in exchange for my salary, i'll keep my mouth shut. i won't need to come to the office. i can do this job from home.
speaker2: you little fucker! i oughta...
speaker1: i am jack's smirking revenge.
speaker1: please... don't hit me again, please. i'm your responsibility...
speaker1: for some reason, i thought of my first fight -- with tyler.
speaker1: please... give me the paychecks like i asked for. i won't be any trouble. you won't see me again.
speaker1: under and behind and inside
speaker1: please... please...
speaker1: and right then, at our most excellent moment together...
speaker1: please don't hit me again.
speaker1: six months advance pay. six months!
speaker3: sweet.
speaker1: okay, and... and...
speaker1: forty-eight airline flight coupons. plus... hold on... just a minute...
speaker1: i am now officially self-employed.
speaker3: good for you.

speaker1: i look around... i look around and see a lot of new faces. 
speaker1: shut up! which means a lot of you have been breaking the first two rules of fight club.
speaker1: i see in fight club the strongest and smartest men who have ever lived -- an entire generation pumping gas and waiting tables; or they're slaves with white collars. tyler advertisements have them chasing cars and clothes, working jobs they hate so they can buy they don't need. we are the middle children of history, with no purpose or place. we have no great war, or great depression. the great war is a spiritual war. the great depression is our lives. we were raised by television to believe that we'd be millionaires and movie gods and rock stars -- but we won't. and we're learning that fact. and we're very, very pissed-off.
speaker1: we are the quiet young men who listen until it's time to decide.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: who am i?! there's a sign on the front that says "lou's tavern." i'm lou. who the are you?!
speaker1: tyler durden.
speaker3: who told you you could use my place?
speaker1: we have a deal worked out with irvine.
speaker3: irvine? irvine's at home with a broken collarbone.
speaker3: he don't own this place, i do. how much money's he getting for this?
speaker1: there is no money.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: it's free to all.
speaker3: ain't that something?
speaker1: yes, it is.
speaker3: look, stupid i want everyone outta here now!
speaker1: you're welcome to join our club.
speaker3: did you hear what i just said?!
speaker1: you and your friend.
speaker3: you hear me now?
speaker1: no, i'm sorry, i didn't hear you.
speaker1: we really need to use this place.
speaker1: that's it.... that's good. get it all out. you'll feel better.
speaker1: yes, i am and crazy, to you and this whole world...
speaker1: you don't know where i've been.
speaker1: we need this place. we need it. please let us keep it, please...
speaker3: what are you doing?!
speaker1: pleeeeeease!
speaker3: okay! okay, it! use the basement! get off me!
speaker1: we need some towels, lou. we need replacement light bulbs.
speaker3: alright, christ! let me go!
speaker1: thank you. thank you, sir...
speaker3: let go of me!!
speaker1: this week, each of you has a homework assignment. you're going to go out and start a fight with a total stranger... you're going to start a fight... and you're going to lose.
speaker4: not as easy as it sounds. people'll do just about anything to avoid a fight.
speaker5: hey! wha... what the hell... what are you doing?! who are you?!!
speaker5: get away from me! keep away!

speaker1: hey... hey... 
speaker2: watch out, these men continue on their way.
speaker3: you... you did that on purpose!

speaker1: now nobody was the center of fight club except the two men fighting. the leader walked around in the crowd, out in the darkness. 
speaker1: everyone took a homework assignment.

speaker1: there's fight club in delaware city. 
speaker2: i heard. local 15, monday nights.
speaker1: local 8 just started in penns grove. and, bob said he was at fight club in newcastle last week.
speaker2: newcastle? did you start that one?
speaker1: i thought you did.

speaker1: let me have that a minute... 
speaker2: what are we doing?
speaker1: homework assignment.
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: human sacrifice.

speaker1: on a long enough time line, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero. 
speaker2: please... don't...
speaker3: give me your wallet.
speaker3: raymond k. hessel. 1320 se benning, apartment a. a small, cramped basement apartment.
speaker4: how'd you know?
speaker3: they give basement apartments letters instead of numbers. raymond, you're going to die.
speaker3: is this a picture of mom and dad?
speaker4: yesssss...
speaker3: your mom and dad will have to call kindly doctor so-and-so to dig up your dental records, because there won't be much left of your face.
speaker4: please, no...
speaker1: tyler...
speaker3: an expired community college student id card. what did you used to study, raymond k. hessel?
speaker4: s-s-stuff.
speaker3: "stuff." were the mid-terms hard?
speaker3: i asked you what you studied.
speaker1: tell him!
speaker4: biology, mostly.
speaker3: why?
speaker4: i... i don't know...
speaker3: what did you want to be, raymond k. hessel?
speaker3: the question, raymond, was "what did you want to be?" a beat.
speaker1: answer him!
speaker4: a veterinarian!
speaker3: animals.
speaker4: yeah ... animals and s-s-s ---
speaker3: stuff. that means you have to get more schooling.
speaker4: too much school.
speaker3: would you rather be dead?
speaker4: no, please, no, no!

speaker1: i'm keeping your license. i know where you live. i'm going to check on you. if you aren't back in school and on your way to being a veterinarian in six weeks, you will be dead. get the out of here. 
speaker2: i feel sick.
speaker1: imagine how he feels.
speaker2: i don't care, that was horrible.
speaker1: tomorrow will be the most beautiful day of raymond k. hessell's life.
speaker1: his breakfast will taste better than any meal he has ever eaten.

speaker1: ... you are not how much money you have in the bank. you are not the shoes you wear. 
speaker1: you are not the contents of your wallet...

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker2: go on in. we're celebrating.

speaker1: you are not your job. 
speaker2: you are not your job.
speaker1: you are not how much money you have in the bank.
speaker3: shhhh, wait... they're back to it...
speaker4: great, thanks.
speaker3: shhhhh! watch!
speaker5: police commissioner jacobs has just arrived... just a second... excuse me, commissioner, could you tell us what you think has happened?
speaker6: we believe this is related to the recent acts of vandalism around the city. it's some kind of organized group, and we are coordinating a rigorous investigation.
speaker7: what did you guys do?
speaker3: the first rule of project mayhem is... you do not ask questions.

speaker1: wrap it around the top of his hackie- sack. 
speaker2: man, his are ice cold.
speaker1: you're not going to continue your "rigorous investigation." you will publicly state that there is no underground group. or -- imagine, the rest of your life with your flapping empty.
speaker3: ... no... please, no...
speaker1: we'll send one to the new york times and one to the los angeles times. press release style. your nuts will be bicoastal. understood? the people you're after are everyone you depend on. tyler we do your laundry, cook your food and serve you dinner. we guard you while you sleep. we drive your ambulances. do not with us.

speaker1: i felt like putting a bullet between the eyes of every panda that wouldn't screw to save its species. 
speaker1: i wanted to open the dump valves on oil tankers and smother all the french beaches i'd never see.
speaker2: where did you go, psycho-boy?
speaker1: i felt like destroying something beautiful.

speaker1: there you are, mr. durden. airport parking, long term. 
speaker2: after you, mr. durden...
speaker3: no... after you.

speaker1: something on your mind? 
speaker2: no.
speaker2: why wasn't i told about "project mayhem?"
speaker1: what should i have told you?
speaker2: why wasn't i involved from the beginning? you and i started fight club together.
speaker1: fight club was the beginning. now it's out of the basements and there's a name for it -- project mayhem.
speaker3: the first rule of project mayhem is you do not ask questions.
speaker2: this is as much mine as yours.
speaker1: is this a needlepoint club? is it about you and me?
speaker2: you know what i mean.
speaker1: what do you want? a statement of purpose... ?
speaker2: look...
speaker1: should i e-mail you? should i put this on your "action item list?"
speaker2: i want to know --
speaker1: what do you want to know about project mayhem?
speaker3: the first rule of project mayhem --
speaker2: shut up!! i want to know what's going on.
speaker1: this does not belong to us. we are not the leaders. we are not special.
speaker2: what are you doing?!
speaker1: we are the all-singing, all-dancing of the world. we are all part of the same compost heap...
speaker2: tyler...
speaker2: what the ... ?!
speaker1: you choose your level of involvement.
speaker2: i'm not asking you to.
speaker1: you're asking questions that don't have answers. you know just as much about project mayhem as anybody else.
speaker2: i don't think that's true.
speaker2: tyler... what is this... !
speaker1: what will you wish you'd done before you died?
speaker4: paint a self-portrait.
speaker5: build a house.
speaker1: and you?
speaker2: i don't know! nothing!
speaker1: if you died right now, how would you feel about your life?
speaker2: i would feel nothing about my life? is that what you want to hear?!
speaker1: i want to hear the truth.
speaker2: my life. fight club. you and marla. i'm sick of this. how's that?
speaker1: why do you think i blew up your condo?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: hitting bottom isn't a weekend retreat! it's not a seminar! you have to forget everything you know, everything you think you know -- about life, about friendship, about you and me.
speaker2: okay, okay... fine...
speaker2: i'd never been in a car accident. this must've been what all those statistics felt like before i filed them into my reports.

speaker1: in the world i see -- you're stalking elk through the damp canyon forests around the ruins of rockefeller center. you will wear leather clothes that last you the rest of your life. you will climb the wrist- thick kudzu vines that wrap the sears tower. you will see tiny figures pounding corn and laying-strips of venison on the empty car pool lane of the ruins of a superhighway. 
speaker1: feel better, champ.

speaker1: i'll be out of your way in a sec. 
speaker2: you... don't have to... leave.
speaker1: whatever.
speaker2: really... i mean it. have you been going to your groups?
speaker1: chloe's dead.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: do you care?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: it was the smart move on her part.
speaker2: why are we both... caught up like this... with... ?
speaker2: i came so close to saying tyler's name, i could feel it vibrate inside my mouth.
speaker2: i don't understand. why does a weak person have to go out and find a strong person... to hang onto?
speaker1: what do you get out of it?
speaker2: you hear that?
speaker1: hear what?
speaker2: that... sawing and hammering.
speaker1: have we been talking too long? must we change the subject?
speaker3: you're not talking about me, are you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: that day you came over to my place to play doctor... what was going on there?
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: nothing? i don't think so.
speaker3: this conversation...
speaker2: this conversation...
speaker3: ... is over.
speaker2: ... is over.
speaker1: what is this? who did this?
speaker2: ... a person.
speaker1: guy or girl?
speaker2: why would you ask if it's a guy or a girl?!
speaker1: why would you get bent if i asked?
speaker2: let go of me... leave me alone.
speaker1: you're afraid to say.

speaker1: um... what can i do for you, ricky? tyler steps up beside jack, looks ricky over. 
speaker2: you're too young. sorry.
speaker1: wait a minute...
speaker1: "too young?"
speaker2: if the applicant is young, we tell him he's too young. old, too old.
speaker1: "applicant?"
speaker2: if the applicant waits at the door for three days without food, shelter or encouragement, then he can enter and begin training.
speaker1: "training?" tyler...

speaker1: are you deaf?! i told you to leave! 
speaker2: look, friend, i'm sorry for the misunderstanding. it's not the end of the world. just go away. you're trespassing and i will call the police. nothing personal.

speaker1: you're never getting through this door, you stupid little weasel! look at me when i talk to you... ! 
speaker1: what is your major malfunction!?

speaker1: you have two black shirts? two pair black trousers? one pair black boots? two pair black socks? one black coat? three hundred dollars personal burial money? go inside. 
speaker1: you're too old. sorry. and, you're too fat. nice seeing you.
speaker2: bob... bob, wait... let me explain this to you...

speaker1: you're too old, fatty! we don't want your kind here! you're too short. go away, stumpy! go back to the circus! 
speaker2: so it went...

speaker1: tyler built his army. 
speaker1: to what purpose, might one ask? well, one might ask, if not for the first rule of project mayhem.
speaker1: in tyler we trust.

speaker1: tyler... 
speaker1: he was gone.

speaker1: "you are not a beautiful and unique snowflake. you are the same decaying organic matter as everything else. we are all part of the same compost heap." 
speaker2: planet tyler.
speaker1: "we are the all-singing, all-dancing of the world." jack picks up a bottle of vodka.
speaker2: i had to hug the walls, trapped inside this clockwork of space monkeys, cooking and working and sleeping in teams.

speaker1: that wouldn't interest you. 
speaker2: where's tyler?
speaker1: the first rule of project --
speaker2: right, right.

speaker1: i'm all alone. i am jack's broken heart. 
speaker1: get away from me!

speaker1: the paper street soap company. 
speaker2: can i come in?
speaker1: he's not here.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: he's not here! tyler's not here anymore! he's gone away!

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker1: bob... oh,
speaker1: what... what happened... ?
speaker2: we were on assignment...
speaker2: we were supposed to kill two birds with one stone:
speaker2: a piece of corporate art...
speaker2: ... and trash a trendy coffee bar.

speaker1: we had it all worked out, man. it went smooth... until... 
speaker2: police! freeze!
speaker1: they shot bob... they shot him in the head. those fuckers...
speaker3: we gotta do something.
speaker4: we got to get rid of the evidence.
speaker5: bury him...
speaker6: what... ?
speaker5: the garden. take him there. move, people. let's do this!
speaker6: no... !
speaker6: get your hands off him! get off...! what the do you think you're doing... ? evidence?! this is a man... ! you killed him!
speaker5: he was killed in action.
speaker6: no! look at you! you're... you're running around in ski masks, exploding things...
speaker5: he was killed serving project mayhem.
speaker4: it's what he would have wanted, sir.
speaker6: what he wanted? look... look at him. look at him! what does he want? this is a person. this is not a cog in your machine...
speaker4: but, this is project mayhem.
speaker6: no, no. this is a man -- this man has a name...
speaker4: but, in project mayhem, we have no names.
speaker6: no! wrong! this man's name is robert paulson.
speaker4: robert paulson?
speaker6: robert paulson is dead. he's dead, because of you...
speaker1: i understand.
speaker1: in death, a member of project mayhem has a name.
speaker6: no -- !
speaker1: his name is robert paulson.
speaker4: his name is robert paulson!
speaker6: no!
speaker7: his name is robert paulson!
speaker6: stop that -- !
speaker7: his name is robert paulson! his name is robert paulson...

speaker1: tyler? 
speaker2: this is detective stern of the arson unit. i'd like to see you in my office tomorrow morning...

speaker1: i didn't know how or why, but i could look at fifty different bars, and somehow i just knew... 
speaker1: here. let me out, right here...

speaker1: i'm looking for tyler durden. 
speaker2: never heard of him.
speaker1: this is an emergency. it's important i find him.
speaker2: i wish i could help you... sir.

speaker1: i need to know where tyler is. can't you help me? 
speaker2: sir, you're disturbing the other patrons with your laudish behavior.
speaker1: there's no one else here.
speaker2: i'm sorry, i haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
speaker1: look at my face. i'm a member. i just need to know if you've seen tyler durden.
speaker2: i'm not disclosed to bespeak any such information to you, nor would i, even if i had said information you want, at this juncture be able.
speaker1: you are a moron.
speaker2: i'm afraid i have to insist you leave.

speaker1: no one's ever seen him. no one knows what he looks like. 
speaker2: he has facial reconstructive surgery every three years.
speaker3: that's the stupidest thing i've ever heard.
speaker1: is it true about fight club in miami?
speaker4: is mr. durden building an army?
speaker3: am i asleep... ?
speaker3: have i slept? i'm not sure if tyler is my bad dream or if i'm tyler's.

speaker1: his name is robert paulson. his name is robert paulson... 
speaker2: welcome back, sir.
speaker3: how have you been?
speaker4: ... you know me?
speaker3: is this a test, sir?
speaker4: yes... it's a test.
speaker3: you were in here last thursday night.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: you were standing right where you are now, asking how good our security is.
speaker4: who do you think i am?
speaker3: is this part of the test?
speaker3: you're the one who did this to me.
speaker4: please return your seatbacks to their full upright and locked position.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: marla, it's me. have we... have we ever had sex?
speaker1: what kind of stupid question is that?!
speaker2: because the answer's "yes" or because the answer's "no?"
speaker1: is this a trick?
speaker2: will you just answer me, for christsake?!
speaker1: you mean, you want to know if i think we were just having or making love?
speaker2: we did make love?
speaker1: is that what you're calling it?
speaker2: answer the question!
speaker1: you me, then snub me. you love me, you hate me. you show me your sensitive side, then you turn into a total asshole! is that a pretty accurate description of our relationship, tyler?
speaker2: we've just lost cabin pressure.
speaker2: what did you say... ?
speaker1: what is wrong with you?
speaker2: say my name.
speaker1: what... ?
speaker2: say my name! what's my name!?
speaker1: tyler durden! tyler durden, you freak. what's going on? i'm coming over there...
speaker2: marla, no, wait...
speaker3: we've got six fight clubs in chicago now...
speaker4: four in milwaukee.
speaker2: what's this all about, tyler?
speaker4: and, we're definitely filling a void in the rural south.
speaker2: why do people think i'm you?
speaker4: you broke your promise. you talked to her about me.
speaker2: why do people think i'm tyler durden?
speaker4: why did you do that?
speaker2: answer me, tyler.
speaker4: why do people think anything?
speaker2: i don't know! tell me!
speaker4: people think that you're me, because you and i happen to share the same body.
speaker2: what... ?
speaker4: is this really news to you?
speaker2: what are you talking about... ?
speaker4: sometimes i control it, and you imagine yourself watching me...

speaker1: anyone? my boss, probably. who would you fight? 
speaker1: oh, yeah. i didn't really know my dad...

speaker1: i go places without you. get things done... 
speaker2: the parker morris building.
speaker3: you are not your job. you are not how much money you have in the bank.
speaker4: i am not my job!
speaker5: i am not how much money i have in the bank!

speaker1: there! happy? i asked for one thing from you... one simple promise. now look what you've done! 
speaker2: this isn't possible...
speaker1: we're going to have to do something about marla...
speaker2: what... what are you saying?
speaker1: it's okay. we okay... a little codependent, sure, but...
speaker2: no! this isn't true. we... we were around other people, together, both of us...
speaker1: you never talked to me in front of anyone else.
speaker2: wrong, wrong -- what about the car crash... the two guys in the backseat?
speaker1: what about them? they're lunatics.
speaker2: you took me to the house.
speaker1: the house is rented in your name.
speaker2: you have jobs.
speaker1: night jobs -- while you were sleeping.
speaker2: what about marla?
speaker1: what about marla?
speaker2: she's... you... you're her.
speaker1: um, well... technically, no.
speaker2: it's called a "changeover." the movie goes on, and nobody in the audience has any idea.

speaker1: sir... sir? are you checking out? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: please initial this list of phone calls.
speaker2: bill me!
speaker2: wait...when were these made?
speaker1: it says right there, sir... between two and three-thirty this morning.
speaker2: i need a copy of this.
speaker2: had i been going to bed earlier every night? have i been sleeping later? has tyler been in charge longer and longer?

speaker1: deja vu, all over again... 
speaker2: eighteen-eighty-eight.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker2: maintenance.
speaker1: listen, something is going to happen, something terrible...
speaker2: very good, sir.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: don't worry about us, sir. we're solid.
speaker1: now wait, there's been a mix-up.
speaker2: you told me you'd say that.
speaker1: abort the plan.
speaker2: you told me you'd say that, too.
speaker1: did i tell you i'd call you a fascist dickhead?!
speaker2: well, sir, you said you might.

speaker1: marla! 
speaker1: marla...
speaker2: your whacked-out, bald freaks hit me with a broom. i thought they were going to break my arm.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i...
speaker2: the were burning their fingertips with lye. the stink was unbelievable.
speaker1: marla... i need to talk to you. it's going to take a tremendous act of faith on your part for you to hear me out.
speaker2: here comes an avalanche of
speaker1: -- a little more faith than that.

speaker1: i don't want to hear anything you've got to say. 
speaker2: give me a minute, marla, alright...
speaker1: sixty seconds, then i'm out of here.
speaker2: absolutely, you have every right. i need you to do me a favor.
speaker1: i've done you enough favors.
speaker3: sir! anything you order is free of charge, sir.
speaker1: why is it free of charge?
speaker2: because... i'm tyler durden.
speaker1: then, i'll have the clam chowder... fried chicken and a baked potato with everything and a chocolate chiffon pie.
speaker2: clean food, please.
speaker3: in that case, sir, may i advise against the lady eating the clam chowder?
speaker2: thanks, no clam chowder. that's it.
speaker1: you got about thirty seconds.
speaker2: i know that i've been... unwell. i know it's been like there's two sides to me.
speaker1: two sides? you're dr. jeckle and mr.
speaker2: i deserve that. anyway, i've... i've only just realized
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i mean, the depth and breadth of our relationship has only recently been illuminated for me. i know this... i know us hasn't been such a great thing for you...
speaker1: whatever. i'll take my food to go...
speaker2: sit down! sit down and give me my last fifteen seconds without opening your mouth!
speaker2: i'm trying to tell you -- and this is where you have to trust me -- but, i think your life might be in real danger.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you have to get out of here. leave as soon as possible. go to any rural town, away from any major city...
speaker1: you are an insane person.
speaker2: marla...
speaker1: no, no, shut up! i've had enough. i tried, tyler... i have tried...
speaker1: there's a part of you i really like, but i can't do this anymore. i just can't. this is killing me...
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i...
speaker1: what?! you're sorry? i don't believe that for a minute.

speaker1: i can't explain. you wouldn't believe me anyway. i'm trying to protect you... 
speaker2: let go of me!
speaker1: do this for me, marla. do this for me, if you never do anything else...
speaker2: leave me alone! i don't ever want to see you again!
speaker1: okay, if that's what it takes, you'll never have to see me again. here... here...
speaker1: take this money, get on this bus... get on, and i promise you, i'll never bother you again, if that's what you want. please...
speaker2: tyler...
speaker1: i'm begging you. get on the bus. get on the bus.
speaker2: why are you doing this?
speaker1: i can't let myself see where you're going. go wherever it takes you, remember... keep away from major cities...
speaker2: i'm not paying this back. i consider it "asshole tax."
speaker1: yes, fine. just, get on. stay away a couple of weeks, at least.
speaker2: tyler...
speaker2: you are the worst thing that ever happened to me.
speaker1: son of a

speaker1: there are probably several hundred members in the metropolitan area. chapters are sprouting in at least five other major cities. they're tightly-regimented, with many cells capable of operating without a central leader. check this address: 1537 paper street. you'll find the body of robert paulson buried in the garden. you'll also find numerous tubs used to make gallons of nitroglycerin. the plan, i believe, is to blow up these credit card headquarters and the trw building. 
speaker2: why these buildings?
speaker1: you are not your job. you are not how much money you have in the bank.
speaker2: keep him talking.
speaker3: i really admire what you're doing.
speaker1: what?
speaker4: you're a genius, sir.
speaker5: you know the drill. you said if anyone ever tries to interfere with project mayhem, even you, we got to get his balls.
speaker6: it's useless to fight.
speaker7: this is really a powerful gesture, mr. durden. it'll set quite an example.
speaker1: no... you're making a mistake!
speaker6: you told us you'd say that.
speaker1: i'm not tyler durden!
speaker8: you told us you'd say that, too.
speaker1: okay, i am tyler durden and i'm ordering you to abort the mission!
speaker6: you said you would definitely say that.
speaker8: what's our best time for a "cut and run?"
speaker6: four minutes.
speaker8: is somebody timing this?
speaker2: some of this info checks out. let's go to the place on paper street.

speaker1: could be worse... 
speaker1: you could be standing under 37 stories of steel and concrete with a 150 gallons of nitroglycerin strapped to the support... oh, maybe it couldn't be...
speaker2: you... you can't be serious about this.
speaker1: what a ridiculous thing to say.
speaker2: i can't let you...
speaker1: ...go through with this?
speaker2: i'm going to...
speaker1: ...stop me?
speaker2: i'm not going...
speaker1: ...to let this happen!
speaker2: stop finishing...
speaker1: ...your sentences! they're our sentences. get your mind around that.
speaker1: what are you doing running through the streets in your underpants? we both use that body.
speaker2: since when is project mayhem about murder?
speaker1: the buildings were evacuated thirty minutes ago. everything's proceeding exactly as planned.
speaker2: you don't know that. there could still be people inside. tyler keeps walking around, crosses his arms.
speaker1: maybe. maybe a couple of guys with shaved heads couldn't synchronize their watches. good riddance.
speaker1: i wouldn't be doing that. unless you know which wires, in what order...
speaker2: if you know, i know.
speaker1: or... maybe i knew you'd know, so i spent the whole day thinking about the wrong ones.
speaker2: if i'm wrong, we're both dead..
speaker1: this is not about martyrdom. jack twists the green wire around his finger.
speaker2: i'm pulling the green wire.
speaker1: green? did you say green?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: don't pull the green wire. pull anything but the green wire.
speaker2: you.
speaker1: i'm serious. that's the wrong one.
speaker1: hear that? marla's here. just in the nick of time, eh?
speaker1: see for yourself.
speaker3: you motherfuckers...
speaker1: i've got everything. the bombs. the army. i've got marla.
speaker2: bob is dead, tyler. the police blew a hole in his head. was that part of your plan?
speaker1: bob was a grown man. in any great struggle, there will be casualties. wouldn't that be implicit in the name? project "mayhem."
speaker2: your struggle. i want out.
speaker1: you want out?
speaker2: i quit.
speaker1: not an option, for the most obvious of reasons. you need to get with the program. seven minutes. let's get out of here.
speaker2: tyler...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: defuse the bomb.
speaker1: ask me nicely.
speaker2: defuse the bomb, please.
speaker1: defuse the bomb?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: please.
speaker1: i did that for you. as a gesture. now, how fast can you run? there are ten other bombs, in ten other buildings in the immediate area. if you're going to get them all, you better get cracking. six minutes. green wires, remember. i'll be upstairs.
speaker1: whoa! what was that all about? jack aims... fires!

speaker1: fire at will. 
speaker1: what did you expect?

speaker1: one minute. 
speaker2: i think this is about where we came in.
speaker1: this is the beginning. we're at ground zero. maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion.
speaker2: i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
speaker2: i still can't think of anything.
speaker1: it's getting exciting now. jack turns, so he can see down -- 31 stories.
speaker1: look what we've accomplished. thirty seconds. out these windows, we will view the economic collapse. one step closer to global equilibrium. i'm glad you're here with me.
speaker2: can't you call it off... ?
speaker1: it's out of our hands. this is it.
speaker2: please...
speaker1: fifteen seconds now. can you see alright? 10... 9... 8....

speaker1: what the -- ? 
speaker2: paraffin.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: paraffin. your merry band mixed the nitro with paraffin. i saw it floating in the bomb. jack they must've run out of cotton and epsom salt. paraffin is iffy at best. tyler rises, taking the gun from jack's mouth, starts pacing. jack rubs his sore jowls, allows himself a smile.
speaker1: it! god-damn it...
speaker2: not exactly according to plan.
speaker1: do we have to do everything ourselves?!
speaker1: ... codename rooster. passcode first strike...

speaker1: haven't we already done this? 
speaker2: how'd you do that?! you're a figment of my imagination... you're psychogenic fugue state...
speaker1: that, maybe you're my hallucination.
speaker2: oh...
speaker2: why... why... why... ?
speaker1: why what?
speaker2: why can't i get rid of you? why can't i just wish you away?
speaker1: you need me.
speaker2: no, no, i don't. i thank you, i really do. thank you, but i don't need you anymore.
speaker1: look, i can be selfish, i know that. i'm not blind to my own failings...
speaker2: noooo, please...
speaker1: from now on, we'll share marla. we've been spending too much time apart...
speaker2: ... no, no, no...
speaker1: no more running off without you.
speaker2: why are you doing this?!
speaker1: i'm doing this for us.
speaker2: please understand... i've gotten all i can from this, tyler.
speaker1: if i leave, you will be right back where i found you...
speaker2: i swear on my life, i won't...
speaker1: you will. you know you will.
speaker1: can you live with that?
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: what have you left for me?
speaker1: why do you want to do that? why do you want to put that gun in your mouth?
speaker2: not my mouth. our mouth.
speaker1: this is interesting.
speaker1: why are you going with this, ikea- boy?
speaker2: it's the only way to get rid of you...
speaker1: i can see you feel very strongly. i feel strongly too. hey, you and me. friends again?
speaker2: do something for me.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: appreciate something.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: look at me...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: my eyes are open.
speaker1: what's that smell... ?
speaker3: are you all right, sir... ?!
speaker2: i'm okay...
speaker4: are you sure? you look terrible, sir! what's happened?
speaker2: everything's fine.
speaker5: sir, you look really awful! do you need medical assistance?
speaker2: bring the girl to me. the rest of you get out. now!
speaker6: what happened... ?
speaker2: don't ask.
speaker2: get to the rendezvous point. move it!
speaker6: my you're shot...
speaker2: yes.
speaker6: who did this to you?
speaker2: i did, i think. but, i'm okay... i'm fine...
speaker2: i'm sorry... you met me at a very strange time in my life.

