speaker1: the 10:15 event's been moved inside to the indian treaty room. 
speaker2: the 10:15 is american fisheries?
speaker1: yes, sir. they're giving you a 200-pound halibut.
speaker2: janie, make a note. we need to schedule more events where somebody gives me a really big fish.
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: janie, i was kidding.
speaker1: of course, sir.
speaker2: hey, cooper.
speaker3: 'morning, mr. president.
speaker1: mr. rothschild asked to have a moment with you this morning.
speaker2: is he upset about the speech last night?
speaker1: he seemed concerned.
speaker2: well, it wouldn't be a monday morning unless lewis was concerned about something i did sunday night.
speaker4: you skipped the whole paragraph.
speaker2: and monday morning it is.
speaker4: "american can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society"...and then nothing. you dumped the whole handguns paragraph.
speaker2: this is a time for prudence, lewis.
speaker4: that was the kick-ass section.
speaker2: i thought what with being the president and all...
speaker4: sir, of course i didn't mean to imply--
speaker2: i thought you'd be turning cartwheels this morning, lewis -- 63 percent job approval.
speaker4: that's great news, sir, but...
speaker5: 'morning, mr. president.
speaker1: charlie.
speaker2: 'morning, charlie.
speaker4: sir, the press is gonna need an explanation.
speaker2: for what?

speaker1: because you dropped the whole kick-ass section, now we've got this thing hanging out there. 
speaker2: there's a thing hanging out there?
speaker1: "americans can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society." then ...nothing. no explanation. no context. so now it's just this thing.
speaker2: and it's hanging out there?
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: maria--
speaker3: good morning, sir.
speaker2: did they tell you i'm gonna need--
speaker3: --overall consumer spending and not just first homes. yes, sir. we'll have it for you in 15 minutes.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: mr. president, i really feel we need to focus on...
speaker2: lewis, however much coffee you drink in the morning, i want you to reduce it by half.
speaker1: i don't drink coffee.
speaker2: then hit yourself over the head with a baseball bat, would you please?
speaker4: happy birthday, laura.
speaker2: hey, laura, happy birthday.
speaker3: thank you, sir.
speaker2: i should send her some flowers.
speaker4: you already did, sir.

speaker1: good morning, mr. president. 
speaker2: how're you, mrs. chapil?
speaker1: fine, thank you, sir. mr. kodak left the detailed breakdown of the approval poll for you. he seemed to indicate that it was very good news.
speaker2: sixty-three percent of it, at any rate.
speaker1: lucy called just a moment ago. you forgot to sign her permission slip for her class--
speaker3: --the museum trip. i'll go get it.
speaker2: what time does she get home today?
speaker3: three-twenty.
speaker2: how's my afternoon look?
speaker3: very crowded.
speaker2: schedule some time for me at 3:30.
speaker4: buenos dias, senor presidente.
speaker2: too-tall mccall, how was mexico?
speaker5: i didn't truly appreciate it until i came back and discovered that america isn't a great society.
speaker6: he dumped a whole section.
speaker2: now there's a thing hanging out there.
speaker5: not a great society, sir?
speaker2: well, with you out of the country, it wasn't, robin. now that you're back, we're great again.
speaker5: there's a press room full of people saying "what did he mean by that?"
speaker6: see?
speaker2: a.j., did you get one of these?
speaker7: is that the letter from solomon at the gdc?
speaker2: it would appear to be a letter from the entire environmental community.
speaker7: i think they're just frustrated, mr. president.
speaker5: are they blaming the president for global warming?
speaker7: well, they don't think he caused it, if that's what you mean. sir, i'm on the phone with these people twice a week. i honestly don't know what they want at this point.
speaker6: what they want is a 20 percent reduction in fossil fuel emissions.
speaker7: it won't pass at 20 percent.
speaker6: we haven't really tried.
speaker7: lewis, mcsorley, mccluskey and shane hold too many markers. if we try to push this through and lose, there will be a very loud thud when we hit the ground, and that's not what you want in an election year.
speaker2: talk to the gdc again, a.j. tell them the president resents the implication that he's turned his back on the environment. tell them i'll send 455 to the floor. but we're gonna ask for a 10 percent reduction. if they want to pull their support, fine. at 63 percent job approval rating. i don't need their help getting a bill passed. we gotta get going-- where's leon?
speaker1: aaagh!
speaker8: sorry! sorry, my fault.
speaker7: never mind.
speaker8: excuse me. good morning, mr. president.
speaker2: you all right?
speaker8: they keep moving that big ficus plant.
speaker7: we're all here, mr. president.
speaker2: okay. first, i wanted to say congratulations. three years ago, we were elected to the white house by one of the narrowest margins in history, and today kodak tells us 63 percent of registered voters think we're doing a good job.
speaker8: wait a second. you wanted me to poll registered voters?
speaker2: but the poll also tells us what we already knew: we don't get this crime bill of ours through congress and these numbers are gonna be a memory. so, starting today, we're shifting it into gear.
speaker5: can i tell my morning press gaggle that gun control--
speaker7: crime control, robin. gun control means we're wimps and we're soft on crime.
speaker6: hang on, are we not--
speaker7: lewis--
speaker6: are we not putting back the handgun restrictions?!
speaker7: we're leaving 'em out.
speaker6: sir, we campaigned on this issue. now, i understand we took it out when we were in the low forties, but we can push it through now.
speaker2: after the elections.
speaker6: sir, we may never have an opportunity like this again. let's take this 63 percent out for a spin and see what it can do.
speaker2: we can't take it out for a spin, lewis. we need it to get re-elected. for reasons passing understanding, people do not relate guns to gun-related crime.
speaker7: robin, you can brief the press this afternoon. as of today, the crime bill's priority one on the president's domestic agenda.
speaker5: got it.
speaker7: leon, you're gonna run the war room. we're gonna need detailed projections for all the target districts by the end of the week. and, leon, don't be a nice, sweet guy from brooklyn. do what the n.r.a. does.
speaker8: scare the out of 'em?
speaker7: yeah.
speaker8: i can do that.
speaker7: lewis, we want you to be legislative liaison on this. you're gonna run the show on the hill.
speaker6: can i just say, to return to the subject for one moment, that it might be easier to fight a war on drugs if we weren't arming drug dealers.
speaker2: lewis, we've gotta fight the fights we can win.
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker7: we want to announce the crime bill at the state of the union, which is 72 days from today. the last nose count put us 18 votes short.
speaker2: eighteen votes in 72 days. thank you, everyone. janie, what's next?
speaker7: thank you, mr. president.
speaker3: security briefing, sir.

speaker1: global defense council... 
speaker2: you wanted to see me?
speaker3: i just got off the phone with a.j.

speaker1: did the president read the letter? 
speaker2: the president's as hell, susan. that letter was a stupid move.
speaker1: it was aggressive, and we should stand by every--
speaker2: this isn't the guy who needed us four years ago, susan. he's incredibly popular. he's gonna win re-election in a walk, and he could give a what we stand by! if the president passes the most important piece of environmental legislation in history, and does it despite our negative endorsement, our political weight in the future will rank somewhere below the save the spotted owl society. i'm bringing in some help.
speaker1: we don't need another environmental expert to confirm what every other environmental expert--
speaker2: not an environmental expert, a professional political strategist. we're playing hardball with andrew shepherd, and we need a heavy bat.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: sydney ellen wade.
speaker1: oh christ. that woman doesn't know the first thing about the environmental lobby.
speaker2: she's a closer, susan. she gets the job done.

speaker1: try it like this and lose that. 
speaker2: david sasser from the times called and wanted to know what the white house felt was a great society.
speaker3: what did you tell him?
speaker2: i told him i couldn't speak for the president, but for my money: bermuda.
speaker1: perfect.
speaker4: mr. president, your cousin judith's come down with the flu and won't be able to join you thursday night.
speaker1: that's too bad. remind me to give her a call later.
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker2: you gonna go stag?
speaker1: that's not a problem.
speaker2: no. we've never gone wrong parading you around as the lonely widower.
speaker2: my i can't believe i said that. mr. president, that was an incredibly thoughtless remark. i would never dream of insulting you or the memory of your wife.
speaker1: that's okay, forget it. what time is it?
speaker4: it's 3:45, sir.
speaker1: i'm gonna go over and say hi to lucy.
speaker4: you have the attorney general at 4:00 and the trade representative at 4:30. somewhere in there you promised npr five minutes.
speaker2: mr. president--
speaker1: robin, don't worry about it.

speaker1: no, keep going. i liked what you were playing? what's it called? 
speaker2: scales.
speaker1: well... you play it with gusto!
speaker2: are my lips swollen?
speaker1: are they supposed to be?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: then you're doing fine.
speaker2: whatcha got behind your back?
speaker1: a little gift.
speaker2: is it a dirt bike?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: is it a really old seventh-grade textbook of yours that you're gonna make me read cover to cover and discuss at dinner and drive me crazy with?
speaker1: i'm not comfortable with the "really old" part, but everything else you said was true.
speaker2: "understanding the constitution."
speaker1: your social studies teacher said your class would be starting on the constitution this week.
speaker2: you talked to mr. linder?
speaker1: yes. it's called a parent-teacher conference. mr. linder and i were the key player in that discussion. why don't you like social studies, luce?
speaker2: i like it fine, dad.
speaker1: all your other teachers say you're happy, you're enthusiastic, you've always got your hand up...mr. linder says you don't participate unless he calls on you, and even then it's a one-word answer.
speaker2: i don't know what to say, dad. i guess i'm just not...i don't know.
speaker1: luce, take a look at this book. this is exciting stuff. it's about who we are and what we want. read what it says on the first page.
speaker2: "property of gilmore junior high school."
speaker1: the next page.
speaker2: "we, the people, of the united states, in order to form a more perfect union..."
speaker1: see? grabs you right off the bat.
speaker2: i can't wait.
speaker1: good, 'cause it's possible the subject might come up at dinner tonight.
speaker2: do you see it as part of your job to torture me?
speaker1: no, it's just one of the perks. see you tonight.

speaker1: the c-stad hardware's been in place for a month. we've got 22 instructors from the army air defense school waiting to go down and train the israelis. 
speaker2: how soon can you deploy them?
speaker3: we can airlift 'em in the morning. they'll have c-stad operational in 20 days.
speaker2: any security concerns?
speaker4: if anybody wanted to hit it, they'd have hit it by now.
speaker5: okay. let's move on it. thank you, gentlemen.
speaker5: have a good evening, mrs. chapil.
speaker6: you too, mr. president.
speaker5: i'll see you in the morning, janie.
speaker7: you will, mr. president. a secret service agent follows at a distance.
speaker8: liberty is moving.
speaker2: leo solomon brought in a hired gun at the gdc.
speaker5: it's about time.
speaker2: she's a lawyer from virginia named sydney ellen wade. i know this woman well. she's had a lot of success getting congressmen elected.
speaker5: maybe we should try to steal her. ten percent, a.j. don't let them leave the room till they're clear about that.
speaker2: you know, if you've got a free second, maybe you could stop in and say hello.
speaker5: mention it to janie.
speaker2: good.
speaker5: then let's clear this off the table and get everybody focused on the crime bill. i don't want to win this. i want to win it by a couple of touchdowns.
speaker2: we will, mr. president.
speaker5: good.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: listen, robin said something to me today that i'm sure she wouldn't have said it if...i mean, she wasn't saying it to me, i realize... ah, never mind. have a good night.
speaker1: good night, mr. president.
speaker2: a.j., when we're out of the office and we're alone, you can call me andy.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: i mean you were the best man at my wedding, for crying out loud. call me andy.
speaker1: whatever you say, mr. president.
speaker1: have a good night, sir.
speaker2: good night, a.j.

speaker1: hi, my name's sydney ellen wade. 
speaker2: he just needs your driver's license.
speaker1: i'm from virginia.
speaker2: he doesn't care.
speaker1: i'm here for a meeting with mr.
speaker2: he doesn't need to know that.
speaker1: forgive me, this is my first time at the white house. i'm trying to savor the capra-esque quality.
speaker2: he doesn't know what capra-esque means.
speaker3: yeah, i do. frank capra, great american director -- it's a wonderful life, mr. smith goes to washington. sydney ellen wade of virginia. knock 'em dead.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: the day the government starts subsidizing private schools is the day we give up on public education. 
speaker2: i know the proposal only scratches the surface, but it's the least we can do.
speaker1: we're already doing the least we can do, but i can't think of anything better, so we'll go with this for now. jerry, say hello to linda for me. and if i don't see you again, have a good thanksgiving.
speaker3: thank you, mr. president.
speaker1: how're we doing?
speaker4: you're running four minutes ahead of schedule.
speaker1: ahead?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker1: janie, this is unprecedented. i don't know what to do with myself.
speaker4: mr. macinerney asked me to remind you to pop your head in on--
speaker1: the gdc meeting. right.
speaker5: your concerns are not falling on deaf ears. the environmental lobby has known no greater alley in the white house than president shepherd.
speaker6: hardly an impressive distinction, a.j.
speaker7: sydney, we should leave mr. macinerney alone now. he's already given us more time than--
speaker6: susan, mr. macinerney doesn't want us to leave, because mr. macinerney's not yet done what he needs to do today.
speaker7: sir, ms. wade's been thrown into the deep end of the pool on her first day. she hasn't even had a chance to read the report of the quebec conference.
speaker6: you're right. i haven't read it. if someone had asked me yesterday, i'd have told them the quebec conference was made up of six professional hockey teams. but what i do know is that it's time for the president to run for president again. leon kodak is as good as it gets when it comes to electoral strategy, and i'm certain he's told the president exactly what i'd tell him: nail down michigan and california, where they make cars and airplanes -- and burn plenty of fossil fuel. but if i had read these eight hundred pages, i would have discovered that it's the burning of fossil fuels that's been mostly responsible for global warming and that the 20 percent reduction recommended by the gdc is a necessary first step toward arresting the catastrophic greenhouse effect that has gone unchecked by this administration...
speaker7: it's really time to--
speaker6: susan, i promise you, the white house chief of staff will not let us leave here until he's broken the bad news.
speaker5: i'm afraid sydney's right. although not about michigan and california. the president has asked me to convey to you that he's sending his energy bill to the floor with a call for a reduction of 10 percent.
speaker5: the president is willing to go it alone on this, but he's asking for, and frankly he's expecting, the full support of the gdc.
speaker6: the president's expecting our full support?
speaker5: yes, he is.
speaker6: the president's dreamin', a.j.
speaker7: sydney!
speaker6: --the president has critically misjudged reality. if he honestly thinks that the environmental community is going to whistle a happy tune while rallying support around this pitifully lame mockery of environmental leadership just because he's a nice guy and he's done better than his predecessors, then your boss is the chief executive of fantasyland.
speaker8: let's take him out back and beat the out of him.
speaker5: good morning, mr. president. how are you today?
speaker1: couldn't be better. i apologize for the interruption, but a.j. asked me to stop and say hello. you wouldn't be sydney ellen wade, by any chance, would you?
speaker6: mr. president, i'm...don't know what to say. i'm speechless.
speaker1: all evidence to the contrary.
speaker7: mr. president, we haven't met. my name is susan sloan. i used to work with congressman myers. i hope this episode in no way--
speaker1: sydney?
speaker6: yes, sir?
speaker1: you got a second?
speaker6: of course.
speaker1: i thought maybe we might have a word in private. someplace a little less intimidating. janie?
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker1: this is my personal assistant, janie basdin. janie, would you show ms. wade into the rec room. i'll be there in a second. shepherd enters a doorway off of the hall. sydney continues down the hallway.
speaker4: this way...

speaker1: sorry to keep you waiting. 
speaker2: mr. president--
speaker1: is it okay if i call you sydney?
speaker2: of course. mr. president--
speaker1: have you ever been in the oval office?
speaker2: i've just been on the regular tour.
speaker1: i hear it's pretty good.
speaker2: mr. president, what you saw in there was nothing more than vanity run amok. i was showing off for a colleague who doesn't think very much of me. it'd be a real injustice for you to hold the gdc accountable for my behavior today. on top of which, i'm monumentally sorry for having insulted you like that.
speaker1: are you under the impression that i'm mad at you?
speaker2: well...
speaker1: sydney, seldom does a day go by that i'm not burned in effigy.
speaker2: not by a professional political operative standing 30 feet from the oval office.
speaker1: no, i'll give you that.
speaker2: mr. president--
speaker1: did you know that when the city planners sat down to design washington, d.c., their intention was to build a city that would intimidate and humble foreign heads of state?
speaker2: i didn't know that.
speaker1: the white house has the single greatest home court advantage in the modern world.
speaker2: learned that one the hard way.
speaker1: sydney, this bill is important to me.
speaker2: yes, sir, i'll convey your message.
speaker1: but you don't believe me?
speaker2: the gdc is asking for 20 percent, sir.
speaker1: it's not gonna pass at 20 percent.
speaker2: how do you know that until you put the full weight of the white house behind--
speaker1: sydney, at 20 percent, we are 34 votes shy in the house. it can't be done. but i tell you what. i'll make you a deal with you. if you can get 24 votes, i'll get you the last 10.
speaker2: twenty-four votes?
speaker1: if you can swing 24 votes by the state of the union, i'll promise you full white house support.
speaker2: do i have your word on that, sir?
speaker1: absolutely. listen, are you hungry? i skipped breakfast. you wanna have some coffee? a donut or something?
speaker2: sir, i'm a little intimidated by my surroundings, and yes, i've gotten off to a rocky and somewhat stilted beginning, but don't let that diminish the weight of my message: the gdc has been at every president for the last decade and a half that global warming is a calamity, the effects of which will be second only to nuclear war. the best scientists in the world have given you every reason to take the gdc seriously. but i'm gonna give you one more. if you don't live up to the deal you just made, come new hampshire, we're gonna go shopping for a new candidate.
speaker1: you can't do that, sydney.
speaker2: with all due respect, mr. president, who's gonna stop me?
speaker1: well, if you go through that door, the united states secret service. that's my private office. you need to go out that way.
speaker2: ah.

speaker1: mcsorley, mccluskey and shane know we're making our move on the crime bill. they're circling the wagons on the assault weapons. 
speaker2: should i meet with them?
speaker1: let lewis take a pass at them first.
speaker2: fine. 2 in the side.
speaker1: nice shot, mr. president.
speaker2: nice shot, mr. president? you won't call me by my name when we're playing pool.
speaker1: i will not do it playing pool, i will not do it in a school, i do not like green eggs and ham, i do not like them sam i am.
speaker2: at ease, a.j., and get away from the pocket. 9 in the corner.
speaker1: leo solomon phoned. he said he was thrilled with the deal you made this morning.
speaker2: i forgot to tell you.
speaker1: it's a waste of time.
speaker2: not our time. gdc makes a big push for the votes, and when they come up short, we move in with the softer bill, to get passed, we're everybody's hero. 3 in the side.
speaker1: also, sydney wade called.
speaker2: sydney wade?
speaker1: she wanted to apologize one more time for her behavior. 3 in the side.
speaker2: did she say anything about me?
speaker1: sydney wade?
speaker2: when she called.
speaker1: did she say anything about you?
speaker2: no, it's just that we had a nice couple of minutes together. she threatened me and i patronized her and we didn't have anything to eat, but i thought there was a connection.
speaker2: she didn't say anything about me?
speaker1: well, no, but i could pass her a note before study hall and--
speaker2: tell me this: hypothetically, what would happen--
speaker1: i feel a nightmare coming on. 1 in the corner.
speaker2: --if i called sydney and asked her to be my date at the state dinner thursday night?
speaker1: you're not serious.
speaker2: don't i sound serious?
speaker1: the president can't just go out on a date.
speaker2: why not? jefferson did. wilson did.
speaker1: you're not--
speaker2: wilson was widowed during his first term. he meets a woman named edith gault. he dated her, courted her, married her, and somewhere in there managed to form the league of nations.
speaker1: mr. president, this is an election year. if you're looking for female companionship, we can make arrangements that'll insure total privacy and--
speaker2: i don't want you to get me a girl, a.j. what is this, vegas?
speaker1: no, sir, this is the white house.
speaker2: and i'm talking about something that in no way is at conflict with my oath of office. i'm a single adult, and i met a woman that i'd like to see again socially. how's that different from what wilson did?
speaker1: the difference is he didn't have to be the president on television. you've said it a million times: if there were a television set in every living room 60 years ago, this country does not elect a man in a wheelchair.
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: we'll take a hit.
speaker2: how big?
speaker1: i don't know. five points. maybe more.
speaker2: five points we're standing here talking about?!
speaker1: it could be more.
speaker2: i drop five points when wisconsin doesn't make it to the rose bowl.
speaker1: do you want me to have kodak put together some numbers so we know what we're talking about?
speaker2: yeah. no. no. i don't want to check a polling sample to see if this is okay, like i'm asking permission to stay out an hour past curfew. this isn't the business of the american people.
speaker1: mr. president, the american people have a funny way of deciding on their own what is and what is not their business.
speaker2: i like her, a.j. stop being my chief of staff for one minute.
speaker1: give her a call.
speaker2: janie! she didn't say anything about me?
speaker1: she said you're taller than she thought you'd be.
speaker2: that's something.
speaker3: yes, sir?
speaker2: i need you to track down a phone number.

speaker1: richard...richard, it wasn't funny. i acted like a college freshman at a protest rally. 
speaker2: tell him the part about walking out the wrong door.
speaker1: oh i forgot about that. no, richard...richard, i don't want to hear your andrew shepherd imitation...
speaker2: i wanna hear it.
speaker1: i'm hanging up now, richard... tonight? i was gonna go to bed early and wake up when there's a new president.
speaker1: the president must think i'm a third- rate jerk.
speaker2: if he thinks you're a jerk, i'm sure he thinks you're a first-rate jerk.
speaker1: i'll tell you one thing, boy. i regrouped, you gotta gimme that. i pulled it together at the end. i stood in the middle of the oval office and i made it very clear that from now on, he who doesn't take the gdc seriously does so at his peril!
speaker2: and then you walked out the wrong door.
speaker1: are you gonna be throwing that back at me the rest of my life?
speaker2: that's my current plan, yes.
speaker1: that's gonna be leo solomon. he said he'd call at nine.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: uh, hi, is this sydney?
speaker1: leo?
speaker4: no, this is andrew shepherd.
speaker1: andrew shepherd. you're hilarious, richard. you're a regular riot.
speaker3: uhh...this isn't richard, it's andrew shepherd.
speaker1: oh, really. well, i'm so glad you called, because i forgot to tell you today what a nice you have. i'm also impressed that you were able to get my phone number, considering i don't have a phone. good night, richard.
speaker3: this used to be easier.

speaker1: i don't believe this. 
speaker2: you want me to deal with him?
speaker1: no way. i may choke in front of shepherd, but richard reynolds i can handle.
speaker1: hello?
speaker3: sydney?
speaker1: are you learning-impaired?!
speaker3: listen, do me a favor. hang up the phone.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: hang up the phone. then dial 456-1414. when you get the white house operator, give her your name and tell her you want to speak to the president.

speaker1: this isn't happening to me. 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker1: it's not possible i did this twice in one day.
speaker3: good evening, the white house.
speaker3: hello?
speaker1: my name's sydney ellen wade. i'd like to--
speaker3: the president's expecting your call, ma'am. i'll put you right through.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: mr. president, i'm sure there's an appropriate thing to say at this moment. probably some formal apology for the nice-ass remark would be in order. i just don't quite know how to word it.
speaker1: it's my fault. i shouldn't have called you at home. should i call you at the office tomorrow?
speaker2: no, sir, of course not. i mean -- yes, you can call me anytime you want -- this is fine. right now is fine. when i said "of course not," i meat that...you know what? the with it -- i'm moving to another country.
speaker1: what did you mean when you said you don't have a phone.
speaker2: i just moved to washington over the weekend, and my apartment isn't ready yet. this is my sister's apartment. come to think of it, how did you get this number?
speaker1: how did i get the number. that's a reasonable question. i don't know.
speaker2: the fbi. sure. 'cause i-if you want to find someone and you're the president, that's who you would call.
speaker1: you know who else is good at that?
speaker2: the c.i.a.?
speaker1: well, yeah, but i was thinking of the internal revenue service. they have computer files that...well...i should stop stalling. as i'm sure you know, the french have elected themselves a new president, and we're having a formal state dinner at the white house, and i was wondering -- and you're under no obligation at all -- but i thought it might be fun... i was wondering if you maybe wanted to go...with me, and uh... there it is. that's why i was calling.
speaker1: sydney? sydney, congress doesn't take this long to--
speaker2: the president has asked me to join him in representing our country. i'm honored. i'm equal to the task.
speaker1: sydney, this is just a dinner. we're not gonna be doing espionage or anything.
speaker2: no. of course. i'm a little...uh...what do i do? i, i mean, where do i go?
speaker1: i'm gonna have a very nice woman named marsha bridgeport call you. she's the white house social director, and she'll help you with anything you want. now when she calls you and tells you her name is marsha bridgeport, it'll help if you give her the benefit of the doubt.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: i'll see you thursday night.
speaker2: mr. president, thank you for asking me. really. this is a first for me.
speaker1: me too.

speaker1: who's on indiana? excuse me. new people, i can't remember your names. raise your hand if you're on indiana. 
speaker1: put your hands down -- you're on illinois.
speaker2: we've got jarrett.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: george jarrett. he's ours. solid "yes."
speaker1: i don't believe it. you. new guy. "jarrett, democrat, minnesota." slide his name on over to "for." we just had his name laminated under "undecided." how'd you get the fence pole out of his butt?
speaker2: i wish i could take credit. he just said, "lewis, i support the president a hundred percent ." not the bill, the president.
speaker2: we're gonna win this in a walk. it's like a kissing booth at a carnival. give us a vote, get a photo-op with number 63.
speaker2: we should have gone after the handguns.
speaker1: we gotta do one thing at a time.
speaker2: we don't have time to do one thing at a time.

speaker1: carol, it's david in sydney wade's office. i want to confirm her lunch with the congressman. 
speaker2: we could do with a little party leadership, mike. is the majority whip takin' a break? congress is in session, right, i'm not wrong about that? lisa, another intern, is hanging up a phone in the background and crossing to the corkboard.
speaker3: i just got off with luther simons.
speaker2: terrific!
speaker1: you're awfully jumpy today. what do you have -- a big date tonight?

speaker1: i'm standing here with senate minority leader robert rumson, just one of the many guests arriving at what, for a few hours at least, is a non-partisan white house. senator, the latest public opinion survey shows the president with approval ratings that would make him all but unbeatable, come next november. is there a republican who can mount a serious challenge, and are you that candidate? 
speaker2: lloyd, it's a long time till next november. right now, i'm just looking forward to a pleasant evening.

speaker1: that's a little tight, luce. 
speaker2: it's supposed to be tight. it's supposed to make you look regal.
speaker1: is it supposed to cut off the blood flow to my face?
speaker2: all done.
speaker1: not bad. where did you learn how to do this?
speaker2: social studies.
speaker1: very funny. really, where did you learn?
speaker2: i don't know...i just guess...
speaker1: sweetie, did mom teach you how to do this?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: lucy, is this okay with you? my having dinner with a woman?
speaker2: it's totally okay.
speaker1: are you sure? because if you want to talk about it...
speaker2: dad, it's cool. go for it.
speaker1: you know, i'm a little nervous.
speaker2: you'll be fine. just be yourself.
speaker1: be myself.
speaker2: and compliment her shoes.
speaker1: her shoes?
speaker2: girls like that.

speaker1: sydney, come on in. you look beautiful. 
speaker2: thank you. i have no idea what i'm doing here.
speaker1: i promise you there's no hidden agenda.
speaker3: sydney. andrew shepherd. we spoke on the phone.
speaker2: yes, sir. i remember. esther, macinernery, a.j.'s wife, joins them.
speaker1: you know my wife, esther.
speaker2: sure. it's nice to see you again.
speaker4: sydney, the president told me about how you two met. i think it's priceless.
speaker2: i don't know what happened. one minute i was calling him a mockery of an environmental leader. the next minute i had a date.
speaker4: men like being insulted by women. it makes them feel loved. don't ask me why.
speaker1: sydney, when you meet the french president, don't make him feel too loved, all right? we just signed a new trade agreement.
speaker2: got it.
speaker3: mr. president, would allow me to introduce sydney ellen wade of the commonwealth of virginia. sydney, this is president rene-jean d'astier and his wife monique danielle d'astier of france.
speaker2: an honor to meet you both.
speaker5: mr. president, i'm sorry to interrupt. the receiving line is in place.
speaker3: sydney, it sounds like our table's ready.

speaker1: once we hit the bottom of the stairs, i gotta do a thing. 
speaker2: they took me through it.
speaker2: do you do this often, sir?
speaker1: this is, actually, only our second state dinner. the first was for the emperor of japan, who died shortly after that, so we stopped having them for a while, just in case.
speaker2: i meant do you go out on...do you-- often--do you--
speaker1: do i date a lot?
speaker2: well, yeah.
speaker1: no. how 'bout you?
speaker2: me? lately, i seem to be going out on a lot of first dates.
speaker1: then you're experienced at this.
speaker2: oh yeah, you can ask me anything.
speaker1: how are we doing so far?
speaker2: it's hard to say at this point. so far it's just your typical first date stuff.
speaker1: and i wanted to find a way to be different from the other guys.
speaker3: ladies and gentlemen, the president of the united states.
speaker1: by the way, nice shoes.

speaker1: mr. president, the president and mrs. d'astier look bored. they're not talking to anybody. 
speaker2: they're hammered. esther, do you speak french?
speaker3: latin.
speaker2: i thought you spoke french.
speaker3: no, latin.
speaker2: great, next time julius caesar comes to town, you're our gal. sydney, i don't suppose that you speak any--
speaker1: monsieur le president, nous sommes tous habilles, nous avons ce merveilleux orchestre, une piece magnifique...comment se fait-il que les invites ne dansent pas?
speaker2: that's my date.
speaker4: je ne connais pas la tradition en amerique, mais dans mon pays, si les invites de louis xvi et marie antoinette avaient ose danser devant le roi et la reine, ils auraient perdu la tete.
speaker1: really?
speaker5: absolument.
speaker2: sydney, you didn't dissolve the nato treaty, did you?
speaker1: i just said that we're sitting in this beautiful room, listening to the music of this wonderful orchestra, and i wondered why nobody was dancing.
speaker4: and i informed ms. wade that in my country, a guest at the palace of louis xvi and marie antoinette would soon find their head in a guillotine if they made the impertinent gesture of dancing without so much as a by-your-leave from the king and the queen.
speaker6: i'll bet no one accused louis of being soft on crime.
speaker1: there's a lesson there, mr. president.
speaker2: more beheadings at the white house?
speaker6: bob rumson would embrace it.
speaker2: i'm sure he would, but i have a better idea.
speaker2: would you like to dance?
speaker1: uh, yeah, i guess. i mean, yes, sir, i'd love to.

speaker1: i don't know how you do it. 
speaker2: arthur murray. six lessons.
speaker1: that's not what i mean. two hundred pairs of eyes are focused on you right now, with two questions: "who's this girl, and why's our president dancing with her?"
speaker2: first of all, the 200 pairs of eyes aren't focused on me. they're focused on you. and the answers are "sydney ellen wade" and "because she said 'yes.'"
speaker3: looking on from the back of the room.
speaker4: they make a nice couple.
speaker5: lovely.
speaker4: we've got troubles.
speaker5: huge.

speaker1: good morning, mrs. chapil. 
speaker2: good morning, mr. president. mr. rothschild and miss mccall are in the office, sir. they said they needed to speak with you before scheduling.
speaker1: fine. janie, can you get me the number of a local florist?
speaker3: i'll take care of it, sir. where do you want them sent?
speaker1: i want to do it myself. i just need the phone number.
speaker3: i don't understand.
speaker1: i want the phone number of a florist.
speaker3: you just want the phone number?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: i don't understand, sir, is there--
speaker1: i want to send some flowers, janie. i want to do it myself. i don't want to staff it out, and i don't want to issue an executive order. i just want a phone number.
speaker3: i'll get it for you right away, sir.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: mr. president, we need five minutes before scheduling if you can spare it. 
speaker2: i just need two minutes to make a call and i'll be right with you.
speaker2: thank you, janie.
speaker3: who are we calling, sir?
speaker2: i'm calling the organization of the united brotherhood of it's-none-of- your-damn-business, lewis. i'll be with you in a minute.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker2: yeah, good morning. how do i get an outside line? really? that's simple. thank you.
speaker3: janie?
speaker4: yes?
speaker3: what's the president doing?
speaker4: i'm sorry, i'm really not at liberty to say.

speaker1: does this have something to do with sydney wade? 
speaker2: i'm really not at liberty to say.

speaker1: is there someone else there who might know? no, i'm not trying to five you a hard time, i was--hold on please. 
speaker2: shepherd's voice comes through on intercom.
speaker1: janie, what's the state flower of virginia?
speaker3: turning to mrs.
speaker4: mrs. chapil. state flower of virginia.
speaker5: the dogwood.

speaker1: the dogwood, sir. 
speaker2: thank you. it's the dogwood. what? hold on please. janie, the dogwood is a tree, not a flower.

speaker1: leon kodak walks by. 
speaker2: it's a tree and a flower.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker2: yes. what's going on?

speaker1: sir, it's a tree and a flower. 
speaker2: the dogwood is both a tree and a flower. i'd like a dozen, please. really? no dogwoods? how 'bout roses? simple. classic. two dozen roses.

speaker1: janie, i'm the president senior domestic policy advisor. it's important that i have a full understanding of-- 
speaker2: janie! do you have any idea where my credit cards might be?

speaker1: they're in storage in wisconsin with the rest of your personal items. 
speaker2: ah. listen, what might be better is if you just bill me for the flowers. i'm sure it'll be okay with your boss. well, i don't know if you recognize my voice, but this is the president. the united states. hello, hello...

speaker1: leo, you wanted to see me? 
speaker2: so there i was, thinking maybe i should give sydney a call. she's new in town, doesn't know many people...
speaker1: leo--
speaker2: then i picked up the times--
speaker1: it was crazy. he called me at home.
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker1: nothing. it was innocent. his cousin got the flu at the last minute.
speaker2: did you sleep with him?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: did you sleep--
speaker1: that's none of your business, leo.
speaker2: yeah, it is, sydney.
speaker1: you wanna tell me how my personal life in any way--
speaker2: because when it's the president, it's not personal. sydney, i hired your reputation. i hired a pit bull, not a prom queen.
speaker1: that's unfair.
speaker2: it's incredibly unfair. but you've spent a lot of time over the year telling me the trouble with the environmental lobby is that we don't understand the fundamental truth that politics is perception. this is a bad time to develop ignorance.
speaker1: you're making way too much of this.
speaker2: am i? this is your time, sydney. you're sitting at the grown-ups' table. you have a chance to get everything you want -- run a national campaign, be a major player inside the party. but this relationship had better go all the way, because with the leader of the free world there is no halfway. politics is perception, and if thing don't work out, the amount of time it'll take you to go from being a hired gun to a cocktail party joke can be clocked with an egg timer.
speaker1: leo, there is no relationship. it was one night. it's done.
speaker3: mr. solomon, this was just delivered by white house messenger. it's marked "perishable."
speaker2: the white house has sent me something perishable?
speaker3: it's for ms. wade.
speaker2: here we go...
speaker1: relax, leo. i'm sure it's just a formality.
speaker3: it's from him.
speaker2: of course it's from him.
speaker1: so he had some staff flunky send me a fruit basket.
speaker3: he wrote the note himself.
speaker1: i'm sure he didn't take the time to--
speaker3: the messenger said he was waiting in the oval office for ten minutes while the president wrote the card.
speaker1: okay, listen, so he-- --it took him ten minutes to write a card?!
speaker3: apparently he went through several drafts.
speaker2: what is it...what is it?
speaker1: a ham.
speaker2: a ham?
speaker1: he sent me a virginia ham.
speaker3: dig it, ms. wade. you're the president's girlfriend. sydney's smile fades away...she looks at leo.
speaker2: there's never an egg timer around when you need one.

speaker1: sir, they're gonna be pressing today about whether the white house is prepared to soften the assault weapons section of the crime bill. 
speaker2: there is no need to entertain that at this point.
speaker1: how do you want me to handle the sydney issue?
speaker3: the sydney issue?
speaker2: we should have a consensus on how the white house is going to handle it.
speaker3: i sure hope the sydney issue refers in some way to a problem we're having with australia, because if it's anything else...
speaker4: mr. president, ms. wade is here to see you.
speaker3: tell her she can come right in. i'm finished here.
speaker4: yes, sir.
speaker3: there is no sydney issue.
speaker5: thanks for seeing me on such short notice.
speaker3: no problem. did you get the ham?
speaker5: i got the ham, yes. thank you very much.
speaker3: i wanted to send you flowers, but there seem to be some kinks in the system. i'm really glad you stopped by. i had such a good time last night.
speaker5: so did i. it's just that...
speaker4: they're 45 seconds away, sir.
speaker3: i'm delivering a luncheon speech at the governor's conference this morning. i'm sorry to--
speaker5: no, no, that's fine. i just stopped by to...
speaker3: are you free for dinner tomorrow night?
speaker5: dinner?
speaker3: casual. in the residence. without the united nations. my daughter'll be with us, so it may seem like the united--
speaker5: i'd love to meet lucy, but...
speaker3: she's gonna like you. excuse me -- jeff!
speaker5: actually, i have some concerns that-- the aide steps back in--
speaker6: yes, sir.
speaker3: i can't do this.
speaker6: which? robbins or stackhouse?
speaker3: either one. i have to be in and out.
speaker6: sir, governor stackhouse said he just needed 10 minutes. i think he wants to talk about the assault weapons.
speaker3: stackhouse wants to talk about grazing rights. trust me.
speaker6: got it.
speaker3: sorry. you have concerns.
speaker5: yes. not many. a few. one. i have one concern.
speaker3: does it having anything to do with one of us being the president?
speaker5: you like to make jokes about this, but--
speaker3: i am not mocking you, honest. i'm just a guy asking a girl over for a meal.
speaker5: what's that?
speaker3: my ride's here.
speaker5: leo solomon has serious concerns about my exploring a social, you know, scenario, with the president of the united states.
speaker3: yeah, well, when you put it that way, it doesn't sound that great to me either.
speaker5: it's just not--
speaker3: have dinner with lucy and me. it's meat loaf night -- how presidential can it be?
speaker3: seven-thirty.

speaker1: are you ms. wade? 
speaker2: sydney.
speaker1: lucy shepherd.
speaker2: nice to meet you.
speaker1: my dad told me to tell you he's on the phone with his dentist and that i should behave myself and entertain you till he gets here.
speaker2: your father's on the phone with his dentist?
speaker1: no. he told me to tell you he's on the phone with his dentist. he wants you to think he's a regular guy.
speaker2: who is he on the phone with?
speaker1: the prime minister of israel.
speaker2: they're probably not discussing his teeth.
speaker1: no. they're talking about that abbreviation i can never remember.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: capricorn surface to air defense.
speaker1: right.
speaker3: let meat loaf night begin.
speaker2: everything all right with your teeth?
speaker3: my teeth?
speaker2: the dentist.
speaker3: oh, right. i've got a cavity in my upper bicuspid region.
speaker2: you've got a short-range weapons system outside tel aviv.
speaker3: you turned on me.
speaker1: can we eat?

speaker1: voters aren't interested in how to achieve economic growth, and they don't want to hear our plans to strengthen foreign policy. 
speaker2: so it comes down to character.
speaker3: the press like him, senator. the networks, the newspapers, they're--
speaker1: reporters like him. networks and newspapers like ratings and circulation. for all the we do about liberal bias in the press when it comes down to a character debate...
speaker4: the press is an unwitting accomplice.
speaker5: bob, the character debate didn't work out for us.
speaker1: because it couldn't. our polling told us that attacking his character less than a year after he'd lost his wife was gonna be a turn-off and was gonna make people feel sorry for him. we couldn't run the campaign we wanted because the opponent was a widower.
speaker5: he's still a widower. time's passed, but--
speaker1: you'll have to forgive my friend. he's been on a hunting trip and cut off from the world.
speaker5: what's going on?
speaker1: the president's got a girlfriend.

speaker1: your dad says you're studying the constitutional convention. 
speaker2: she's not having any fun, though.
speaker3: dad--
speaker1: you're not having fun?
speaker3: this is a nightmare. this is a social studies nightmare.
speaker2: they're doing a mock congress. each kid is playing one of the original delegates, and they debate the amendments. now what's not fun about that?
speaker3: g'night, dad.
speaker2: g'night, sweetheart.
speaker3: it was nice meeting you, mrs.--
speaker1: sydney.
speaker3: it was nice meeting you, sydney.
speaker1: thank you. it was nice meeting you.
speaker2: sleep well, honey. i love you.
speaker3: i love you, too.
speaker1: she's wonderful.
speaker2: she's her mother.
speaker1: she's you.
speaker2: would you like the 25-cent tour?

speaker1: i thought c-stad wasn't gonna be operational until january. 
speaker2: it was ready ahead of schedule. we've just been waiting for the personnel.
speaker1: the israelis?
speaker2: no, our guys. we've sent a team of army instructors to train the israelis.

speaker1: it's not the dish-- 
speaker2: yeah, it is. it's the room with all the dishes.
speaker1: it's the china room.
speaker2: i'm more of a west wing president. if you're curious about the mansion, there's probably a book you can get--
speaker1: there're about seven-thousand books. i'll get one for you.
speaker2: sydney.
speaker1: mr. president -- have you ever noticed how similar the van buren flatware is to the buchanan flatware?
speaker2: do you think there will ever come a time when you can stand in a room with me and not think of me as the president?
speaker1: this isn't a state of mind. you are the president. and when i'm in a room with you, oval or any other shape, i'm always gonna be a lobbyist, and you'll always be the president.
speaker2: i got news for you, sydney. as a lobbyist, you would never be alone in a room with the president. this last statement is not lost on sydney.
speaker1: you think this is a good idea?
speaker2: probably not.
speaker3: mr. president...
speaker3: we have a secure call from the sit- room.
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker3: sorry, ma'am.
speaker1: no...of course.
speaker2: listen--
speaker1: is anything wrong?
speaker2: i'm sorry, we're going to have to cut our evening short. the libyans have just bombed c-stad. i'll try to call you tomorrow. can you show ms. wade out. shepherd exits.
speaker4: the response scenario's in place...

speaker1: ...the f-18's are fired up on the kimitz and the kitty hawk. they're just waiting for your attack order, mr. president. 
speaker2: and we're gonna hit libyan intelligence headquarters?
speaker3: the n.s.a. confirmed they're the ones who planned the bombing.
speaker4: what's the estimate?
speaker5: we'll level the building.
speaker2: libyan i.h.q's in the middle of downtown tripoli -- are we gonna hit anything else?
speaker5: only if we miss.
speaker2: are we gonna miss?
speaker5: no, sir.
speaker2: how many people work in that building?
speaker1: we've been all through--
speaker2: how many people work in the building?
speaker6: i've got those number here. there are three shifts, so it--
speaker2: the fewest. what shift puts the fewest people in the building? the night shift, right?
speaker6: by far. mostly custodial staff and a few--
speaker2: what time does the night crew go on?
speaker6: they're on now, sir.

speaker1: it's immediate, it's decisive, it's low risk, and it's a proportional response. 
speaker2: someday somebody's going to have to explain to me the virtue of a proportional response.
speaker3: mr. president?
speaker2: attack.

speaker1: robin, as soon as our planes have cleared libyan airspace, you can call the press. i don't know when we'll have the full b.d.a.-- 
speaker2: general rork says around o-eight hundred.
speaker3: sir, what do you think about a national address?
speaker4: the last thing i want to do is put the lybians center stage.
speaker5: i think it's a great idea, sir. you know rumson's gonna be talking about your lack of military service.
speaker4: this isn't about rumson. what i did tonight was not about political gain.
speaker5: but it can be, sir. what you did tonight was very presidential.
speaker4: leon, somewhere in libyan right now there's a janitor working the night shift at the libyan intelligence headquarters. he's going about his job 'cause he has no idea that in about an hour he's gonna die in a massive explosion. he's just going about his job 'cause he has no idea that an hour ago i gave an order to have him killed. you just saw me do the least presidential thing i do.
speaker5: yes, sir.
speaker6: mr. president...mr. president!

speaker1: is there anything at all about the c-stad weapons system that could have been mistaken by libyan intelligence as offensive rather than defensive? 
speaker2: no. we did everything but show them the blueprints. the hardware was sitting in a airplane hangar for a month. they didn't hit it until the american personnel got there. leslie.
speaker3: sir, there's an unconfirmed report that you were with sydney wade when you learned of the attack. can you comment?
speaker4: get him off.
speaker2: yes, we'd just finished dinner.
speaker5: last question.
speaker6: sir, would you care to comment on the status of your relationship?
speaker2: we don't have a relationship. we just had dinner.
speaker7: can you tell us if she spent the night at the white house or did--
speaker2: folks, a lot of people got killed last night. let's try to keep our eyes on the ball, okay?

speaker1: that was my fault, sir. we should have prepped you for that. 
speaker2: there's nothing that needs prepping. a.j., let's meet with the leadership after we meet with the security council.
speaker1: "newsweek" is begging for ten minutes today. any ten minutes you got.
speaker2: nobody gets ten minutes today.

speaker1: lewis, tell the speaker to wait. i want to talk to him. no, i'll be right down. 
speaker2: ...last night, the price of his liberal programs was raised to include the blood of 22 american soldiers.
speaker2: ...mr. shepherd's read a lot of books, but you didn't need a harvard degree to see this comin' a mile down the road.
speaker1: i went to stanford, you blowhole.
speaker2: the fat that our commander-in-chief has not served one day in uniform-- shepherd clicks off the tv and then stares at

speaker1: sydney? 
speaker2: why did i have to kiss him?
speaker1: you kissed him?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you didn't' tell me that.
speaker2: i kissed him.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: on the mouth.
speaker1: where in the white house?!
speaker2: in the dish room.
speaker1: the dish room?
speaker2: the china room.
speaker1: then what happened?
speaker2: he had to go and attack libya.
speaker1: it's always something.
speaker2: i've gotta nip this in the bud. this has catastrophe written all over it.
speaker1: in what language?! sydney, this man is the leader of the free world. he's brilliant, he's funny, he's handsome, and he's an above-average dancer. isn't it possible our standards are just a tad high? the phone rings-- sydney freezes.
speaker1: answer the phone.
speaker2: it's him.
speaker1: answer the phone.
speaker2: he's gonna ask me to come over there.
speaker1: answer the phone.
speaker2: i don't want to go over there.
speaker1: answer the phone.
speaker2: all right. but i'm gonna end it on the phone. i'm not gonna go over there.

speaker1: i just came over here to tell you why i can't see you anymore. 
speaker2: thanks, coop.
speaker1: look, i know you've had a tough day.
speaker2: not as tough as some. you want a drink? lemme take your coat.
speaker1: mr. president, this isn't gonna work.
speaker2: sure it will. you button the top button, and it doesn't fall off the hanger.
speaker1: that's not what i...
speaker2: i didn't think so. listen...
speaker1: i've really enjoyed the time we've spent together, but this has catastrophe written all over it. please, mr. president, don't pursue me outside the political arena.
speaker2: well, i have no intention of pursuing you inside the political arena, so that leaves everything out, and that's unacceptable to me.
speaker1: if i were on your staff, i would tell you that the absolute worst thing you can do coming into an election year is to open yourself up to character attacks, and the fastest way to do that is to prance around like the of the western world.
speaker2: let's clear up a couple of things. number 1: i seldom prance. number 2: i have no intention of engaging in a character debate, and number 3: you're not on my staff.
speaker1: yes, of course, but if you'll follow the immutable--
speaker2: why is that, by the way?
speaker1: why's that?
speaker2: why aren't you on my staff?
speaker1: you can't afford me.
speaker2: how much do you make?
speaker1: more than you do, mr. president.
speaker2: the name's andy. how much money do you make?
speaker1: what the does it matter how much money i--
speaker2: you would raise your voice to the president?
speaker1: i'm only thinking about the health of your presidency. you think this morning's press conference was the end of it? bob rumson's gotta be drooling over this.
speaker2: are you attracted to me?
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: i asked if--
speaker1: that's not the issue--
speaker2: well, i tell you what. let's make it the issue. let's try something new, 'cause i know that most couples, when they're first getting together, are inclined to slam on the brakes because they're concerned about bob rumson's drool.
speaker1: you're not most people.
speaker2: you know what your problem is?
speaker1: what's my problem?
speaker2: and nervousness.
speaker1: and nervousness is my problem.
speaker2: yes. last night when we were looking at the different place settings in the dish room, i realized that those place settings were provided by the first ladies. and i'll bet none of those first ladies were nervous about having with their president husbands.
speaker1: no, but i'm sure you'll explain it to me.
speaker2: i will. because they weren't presidents when they met them. not the case here.
speaker1: ahhhhhh.
speaker2: you see what i'm getting at?
speaker1: yes. may i use your bathroom for a moment?
speaker2: sure. it's right through there.
speaker1: i want to freshen up.
speaker2: as you pass through, you'll see a large closet on your left. and if you feel comfortable, hang up your coat, and when you come back i'll have fixed up a drink, we'll sit on the couch, and i will explain to you my plan.
speaker1: you have a plan? don't make me wait. you're on a roll.
speaker2: okay. you're attracted to me, but the idea of physical intimacy is uncomfortable because you only know me as the president. it's not always gonna be that way, and the reason i know that is because there was a moment last night when you were with me and not the president, and i know what a big step that was for you. so, sydney, i'm in no rush. here's my plan: we're gonna slow down. when you're comfortable, that's when it'll happen. sydney comes back into the room...she's wearing one of shepherd's dress shirts and nothing else. she walks toward him.
speaker2: perhaps i didn't properly explain the fundamentals of the "slow down" plan.
speaker1: you explained it great.
speaker2: are you nervous?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: good. my nervousness exists on several levels. number 1 -- and this is in no particular order -- i haven't done this in a pretty long time. number 2: any expectations you might have, due to the fact that i'm, you know...
speaker1: the most powerful man in the world?
speaker2: exactly, thank you. just so you remember that's a political distinction that comes with the office. i mean, if eisenhower were here instead of me he'd be dead by now. and number three...
speaker1: andy...
speaker3: does new hampshire want traditional american values back in the white house?
speaker4: yes!!

speaker1: does new hampshire want the pride back? 
speaker2: yeah!!!!!!!
speaker1: my name is bob rumson. and i'm running for president.

speaker1: yeah...put him through. lewis, it is 5:00 a.m. you gotta get yourself a life, man. yeah...all right. 
speaker1: sydney?
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i wanted to leave the building before the press corps got here.
speaker1: i have those same thoughts every day of my life. say, you know lewis rothschild, don't you? well, he's...
speaker2: sure. boy, lewis'd go nuts if he knew i'd spent the night.
speaker1: ...on his way up.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: come on in, lewis.
speaker3: 'morning, mr. president. hi, sydney.
speaker2: hi, lewis. well, mr. president, thank you for taking the time to go over those fossil fuel numbers. i'll just get my coat, and be on my way.
speaker1: what's the situation?
speaker3: they're camped out at every exit.
speaker2: who? who's camped out?
speaker3: the press.
speaker2: the press is camped out?
speaker3: you shoulda taken a cab, sydney.
speaker2: they know my car?!
speaker4: good morning, mr. president. hi, sydney. i came over as soon as lewis called.
speaker1: thank
speaker4: i think the important thing is not to make it look like we're panicking.
speaker1: see, and i think the important thing is actually not to be panicking.
speaker5: good morning, mr. president. good morning, ms. wade. i see everyone's getting an early start today.
speaker3: how do we exit sydney from the building and what do we say to the press at that point?
speaker4: we need a diversion.
speaker2: a diversion.
speaker4: you understand that by diversion i'm not saying we set the white house on fire.
speaker1: no, please, let's do.
speaker3: can i state very clearly that i can't be party to anything illegal.
speaker5: good for you, lewis.
speaker3: say what you want, but it's always the guy in my job that ends up doing eighteen months in danbury minimum security prison.
speaker1: rest easy, lewis. we're not creating a diversion.
speaker4: no diversion.
speaker1: we'll have somebody take you home.
speaker5: esther's over in my office. she's got the station wagon outside.
speaker3: okay. good. now, the press statement.
speaker1: sydney, when you leave here, you're gonna run into reporters and photographers. your picture's gonna be taken every day, and you're gonna be asked questions every day. answer them, don't answer them -- it's entirely up to you. the white house has no official position except to say "no comment."
speaker4: no comment?
speaker1: the white house doesn't comment on the president's personal life.
speaker3: we can't just leave it at that, sir.
speaker1: i tell you what, lewis, we just did.
speaker3: but, sir...
speaker5: thank you, mr. president.
speaker5: sydney. esther'll be in my office.
speaker2: thanks, a.j.
speaker1: i'm sorry about all this. we'll do it better next time.
speaker2: i'm no expert, but i thought we did it pretty good this time.
speaker1: no, i mean...
speaker2: i know. i had a good time.
speaker1: me, too. i'll call you. i'll be in panama, but i'll call you.
speaker2: i'd like that.
speaker2: bye.
speaker1: all right...okay...this is good.

speaker1: all right, caller, you're on the air. 
speaker2: dan, what about lucy shepherd? is anyone concerned about this little girl? can we now finally have a serious debate about family values?

speaker1: i agree a hundred and ten percent, mrs. harper. that's why i'm up here in the dead of winter talkin' about it with you folks. 
speaker1: that's very generous of you, ma'am, and i'm gonna take that money off your hands right now.
speaker1: what do you got for me, stu?
speaker2: call me santa claus, senator.
speaker2: she's got an fbi file.
speaker1: stu, my mother's got an fbi file.
speaker2: i've got art.
speaker2: it's a demonstration outside the department of commerce. the picture's old, and a lot of the faces are obscured by the smoke, but this is sydney right there in front.
speaker1: oh man...tell me the smoke is coming from what it looks like it's coming from.
speaker2: yes, sir -- it's burning flag.

speaker1: i understand, congressman...of course you need to deliberate. i know the fact that there isn't any heavy industry in your district doesn't make this decision any easier. but we met three weeks ago, and at the end of that meeting you said that you were leaning our way but that you wanted to sleep on it. since i haven't heard from you since then, the only conclusion i can reach is that you haven't slept in 21 days. 
speaker2: ask him about his position on stateboard for hawaii.
speaker1: harry, think like a father for a second. wouldn't you like your kids to be able to take a deep breath when they're 30? thank you. you're doing the right thing.
speaker1: tote board's heavy.
speaker2: how's this?
speaker1: that's better!
speaker2: hey, syd, i saw on your schedule you're gonna meet with mcsorley, mccluskey and shane.
speaker1: yeah, the motown three said they'd give me 30 minutes next week.
speaker2: sydney, these are people who represent people who make cars for a living.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: cars, you understand, run on gasoline.
speaker1: hey, i know it's a long shot, but if i can get one of them, it'll be a huge payoff in visibility.
speaker2: well, if we're gonna try, we should do some prep work. you wanna order in?
speaker1: i can't work tonight. i'm having dinner at the white house. we can start early tomorrow.
speaker2: okay. i'm having lunch at the kremlin, so we'll have to, you know, start real early...
speaker1: good night, david.
speaker2: ...in order for me to catch the morning plane to moscow.

speaker1: douglas, does the n.r.a. have videotapes of you playing golf with satan? we've already softened the assault weapons. we're leaving the sks, the mini 14, and about 250 other types on the street. i mean, how much pull can one lobby-- janie catches shepherd's eye and makes a subtle gesture to her wristwatch. 
speaker1: --yeah, look, we're gonna continue this tomorrow. i'm late for the party fund-raiser. i'll be sure and put in a good word for you, by the way. okay.
speaker2: you're incredibly late.
speaker3: mr. president. i just got off the phone with the federal mediator in st. louis. management just walked away from the table. the baggage handlers, pilots and flight attendants are getting set to walk in 48 hours.
speaker1: i studied under a nobel-prize-winning economist. you know what he taught me?
speaker3: don't have a airline strike at christmas?
speaker1: yeah. i'm going to st. louis.
speaker3: you can leave straight from the fund- raiser. janie, get him outta here.
speaker4: liberty's moving.

speaker1: sir... 
speaker2: he's incredibly late.
speaker3: hop in. we'll talk in the car.

speaker1: we've got a small problem. 
speaker2: it could've been a small problem. it's now at the very least a medium- sized--
speaker1: robin sees it as a problem. i see it as a opportunity.
speaker2: it could've been an opportunity if we'd caught it...
speaker1: we caught it.
speaker2: at 5:45. five-forty-five doesn't do me any good, lewis. five-forty-five, network news is in makeup.
speaker1: you've got 14 people working for you.
speaker3: guys, do i have to be here for this meeting?
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. it's the evening news. it was buried as the third story--
speaker2: --it's got a bullet.
speaker1: sydney was at a protest rally where they burned a flag.
speaker3: today?
speaker1: about 13 years ago.
speaker2: outside the department of commerce.
speaker3: let me see if i've got this: the third story on the news tonight was that someone i didn't know 13 years ago, when i wasn't president, participated in a demonstration where no laws were being broken in protest of something that so many people were against it doesn't exist anymore? just out of curiosity, what was the fourth story?
speaker1: see, i think it's important, when we deal with it, that we--
speaker3: don't deal with it.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker3: they're trying to get us to swing at a pitch in the dirt. no one ever wins these fights. it'll go away.
speaker1: i'm not sure that's the wisest--
speaker3: aw...hell!
speaker2: see, it's already distracting you.
speaker3: no, you reminded me, i'm supposed to have dinner with sydney tonight.

speaker1: it's terrific, beth. i love it. 
speaker2: i can't believe i'm loaning you clothes. i thought you owned every piece of clothing there was.
speaker1: work clothes. i always have dinner at the white house wearing a suit.
speaker2: go ahead, try it on. i brought earrings, too.
speaker1: hello... i'm just trying on dresses. how do you feel about leather?

speaker1: i feel terrible, but i have to cancel our date tonight. 
speaker2: another woman?
speaker1: no, i've gotta go to st. louis and avert a massive airline strike.
speaker2: boys, if i had a nickel for every time i heard that one.
speaker1: thanks for understanding. i'll call you tonight shepherd hangs up the phone.
speaker1: boy, i hate doing that. she was trying on dresses.
speaker3: i tell any girl i'm going out with to assume that all plans are soft until she receives confirmation 30 minutes beforehand.
speaker4: and they find this romantic?
speaker3: well, i say it with a great deal of charm.
speaker1: look! look! there it is! carmen's house of flowers! we gotta stop.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: i gotta get her flowers.
speaker3: here?!
speaker4: now?!
speaker1: i broke our date. this is what men do.
speaker4: it's not what men do. i know no men who do that.
speaker1: coop, i'm gonna hop out at that flower shop.
speaker5: you're gonna hop out, sir?
speaker3: no, he's not hopping. sir, no hopping. stay in the car. i'll get the flowers.
speaker1: then it's not personal.
speaker3: let the agents do a security sweep.
speaker1: you think there's a florist who's planning an assassination on the off-chance that i'd be stopping by?
speaker3: it's possible.

speaker1: at the basketball game... 
speaker2: excuse me--
speaker1: no, at the game. i'm telling you, kiki wasn't even there.
speaker2: excuse me--
speaker1: i will be right with you.
speaker2: hey, i don't know if you're the one i talked to on the phone... virginia, dogwood, the president ...any of it ring a--
speaker2: same girl. she remembers me.
speaker3: she'll be fine.
speaker4: yes, and i'm glad to see ol' andy's got himself a girl.

speaker1: never mind she's the hired gun of an ultra-liberal political action committee. 
speaker1: never mind that the president takes the fifth anytime a reporter has the temerity to ask a question about a woman in a position to exert enormous influence over a huge range of issues.
speaker1: never mind that this woman's idea of how to unwind at the end of a tough day is by getting together with her aclu pals and setting american flags on fire...

speaker1: what do lewis and robin think? 
speaker2: brutus and cassius? they want me to get into the character debate and mix it up.
speaker1: lewis and robin are very smart.
speaker2: sydney says you guys are really stupid.
speaker1: i didn't say that!
speaker2: she's questioning your loyalty.
speaker3: hell, i question it all the time.
speaker2: wait a second, here comes my favorite part.
speaker4: my name is bob rumson, and i'm running for president.
speaker2: it's a good thing he cleared that up, 'cause the crowd was gettin' ready to buy some amway products.
speaker1: his number are climbing.
speaker2: sydney, his number have nowhere to go but up.
speaker1: what about yours?
speaker2: we're fine. we'll be back up in the 60's once i get the votes for the crime bill. say, what're you doing this weekend?
speaker1: i've got some work i was gonna bring home. why?
speaker2: the negotiations are going pretty well here. it looks like the nation's going to keep on flying. lucy's sleeping over at a friend's house saturday night.
speaker1: what'd you have in mind?
speaker2: have you ever been to camp david?
speaker1: camp david? sure. i used to go there all the time, but then they changed chefs and...
speaker2: it's sass, right? you're sassing me.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i'll have a car pick you up saturday morning.

speaker1: do you ever get used to helicopters dropping you off at your front door? 
speaker2: how many "e"s in "kaleidoscope"?
speaker1: i guess you do.

speaker1: oh good 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i'm looking at your college transcripts. this isn't human. nobody gets this many "a's." you were like a stepford student.
speaker2: are you still reading that ridiculous biography?
speaker1: actually i finished andrew shepherd: road to the white house. now i'm onto shepherd: the early years.
speaker2: seven-trillion-dollar communications system at my disposal, you'd think i'd be able to find out if the packers won.
speaker1: oh, andy...c-minus in women's studies?
speaker2: yeah...that course wasn't about what i thought it was gonna be about.
speaker2: who cares? let's see some scores.
speaker3: while the president spent the day at camp david, g.o.p. presidential hopeful robert rumson continued his attacks on president shepherd's character. during the saturday morning news program capitol review with kenneth michaels, senator rumson suggested that gdc political director sydney ellen wade, whose personal relationship with the president has been causing the white house headaches over the past two months, may have traded sexual favors for key votes in the virginia state legislature while lobbying for the virginia teachers association. the news program goes to the segment showing rumson and michaels on that morning's show. shepherd and sydney sit and watch...knowing they're about to take a punch...powerless to stop it...
speaker4: wait a minute, senator--
speaker5: i'm not saying--
speaker4: --'cause that's a heck of an accusation to make, and--
speaker5: i'm not making an acc-- let me be very clear. i'm not making an accusation. i am saying when we hear one thing, we dismiss it. we hear two, we dismiss it. but when several, several well- respected members and former members of the virginia state house--
speaker4: can you give us names?
speaker5: --each of their own accord, comes to me and expresses concern over the woman standing next to -- i don't even know, do we call her the first mistress?
speaker1: my he's making this up as he goes along.
speaker2: i'm so sorry about this, sydney.
speaker1: oh, man. my father heard that.
speaker2: you gotta tell him to turn a deaf ear.
speaker1: my father doesn't have a deaf ear. he hears fine out of both. so do i. so does my sister, so do my friends.
speaker2: sydney, i can't challenge the school bully to a fight just because he picked on my girlfriend.
speaker1: i'm not asking you to. i can take care of myself. this isn't about me. how can you keep quiet? how do you have patience for people who claim they love america but clearly can't stand americans?
speaker2: i have one more election left, sydney. i don't have the luxury of losing my patience.
speaker1: i want to say something, but i'm gonna fumble it a little bit, so i'd just like you to wait till i'm done before you respond. i'm in love with you. i'm certain of it. and i want to be with you more than anything. but maybe things would be better for you if i disappeared for a while.
speaker2: things will be better when i pass a crime bill. and sydney, if you disappeared, i'd find you.

speaker1: mr. president, militant women are out to destroy college football in this country. 
speaker2: is that a fact?
speaker1: have you been following this situation down in atlanta? these women want parity for girls' softball, field hockey, volleyball...
speaker2: if i'm not mistaken, gill, i think the courts ruled on title 9 about 20 years ago.
speaker1: yes sir, but now i'm saying these women want that law enforced.
speaker2: well, it's a world gone mad, gill.
speaker3: the country has mood swings.
speaker4: mood swings? nineteen post-graduate degrees in mathematics and you explain going from a 63 to a 46 percent approval rating in 5 weeks on mood swings?
speaker3: well, i could explain it better, but i'd need charts and graphs and an easel.
speaker5: fellas, we haven't slept in three years. can't we forget work for one night and take this moment to enjoy each other as friends? it's christmas.
speaker4: it's christmas?
speaker3: yeah, you didn't get the memo?

speaker1: 'cause your father's president, does he automatically get to be on money? 
speaker2: i honestly don't know.
speaker3: i think only if he's a really good president.
speaker4: hey, sydney, merry christmas.
speaker5: merry christmas, a.j.
speaker4: where you been?
speaker5: i got stuck on depont circle. i can never remember which lane i'm supposed to take. then i got cut off by this cab driver who starts screaming at me like it's my fault.
speaker4: syd, relax. it's christmas.
speaker6: hi, syd. get stuck on dupont circle again?
speaker5: it's not funny. i hate that place. can't you declare it a federal disaster area or something?
speaker6: i'll look into it.
speaker4: what were you doing up on the hill, anyway?
speaker5: ahhh...i had a terrible meeting today. totally lost my cool with mcsorley, mccluskey and shane.
speaker6: you went to see the motown three?
speaker5: i pitched 'em the hill.
speaker4: on its merits?
speaker6: the woman knows no fear. she'd lobby the carolinas to the american lung association.
speaker5: it was a disaster.
speaker4: you're in good company. i sat with 'em a week ago. they told me there was nothing on the president's domestic agenda they were more committed to defeating than the crime bill.
speaker5: well, congratulations, fellas, you're outta the cellar. mcsorley told me the only thing on the president's domestic agenda they were more committed to defeating than the crime bill was the fossil fuel package.
speaker4: you're kidding, right?
speaker5: no, i'm not kidding. it's funny that he used the same words.
speaker4: yeah...
speaker6: i don't think the pep boys know too many words.
speaker5: i'm gonna get a drink and shake this off. when i come back, i'll have christmas spirit.
speaker6: okay.
speaker5: is something wrong?
speaker6: no, i was...i was thinking about-- nothing.
speaker5: i'll be back in a minute.
speaker4: did what i think just happened, just happen? did the gdc's political director just tell the president and the white house chief of staff that there are three votes on the crime bill that can be bought by stickin' the fossil fuel package in a drawer.
speaker6: no, the gdc's political director didn't tell us anything. sydney wade told her boyfriend and her boyfriend's best friend that she had a lousy day.
speaker4: it doesn't change the facts, mr. president. if sydney gets her 24 votes and we're three short, there's some maneuvering to be done.
speaker6: i made a promise, a.j.
speaker4: you made a deal, mr. president.
speaker6: i made it with sydney.
speaker4: you made it with the gdc.
speaker6: yeah, well, this is all academic anyway. we're not going to need those votes.
speaker4: if your approval rating drops any more, things are gonna get tight.

speaker1: i'm hearing rumors that your boss is wavering on the crime bill. 
speaker2: you can't believe rumors, lewis, you know this town.
speaker1: that's what i wanted to hear.
speaker2: i'll tell you, though. my boss is starting to waver on the crime bill.

speaker1: sydney, everybody cares about the environment during a phone survey. on election day, nobody gives a that's, that's why you have a job. 
speaker2: congressman pennybaker, on election day, people give a about what i tell them to give a about. and that's why i have a job. did you want another roll?

speaker1: she got pennybaker. 
speaker2: all right! good job!

speaker1: congressman, it was our understanding that we had your support. 
speaker2: hey, look, i like your boy. always have. but for sake, kid, does the woman have to spend the night?

speaker1: congressman, the assault weapons are gone. 
speaker2: the bill is priced to move, see.
speaker3: the bill isn't the issue, fellas. i'm facing a serious challenge in november, and the president's coattails aren't what they used to be.
speaker2: the president's coattail's are gonna have room for you, congressman, you leave that to us.
speaker4: we left that to you people, leon, and the president's in a free-fall.
speaker2: i wouldn't say he's in a free--
speaker3: i just can't give you my vote.

speaker1: the well is drying up. the president's gotta make a move or we're gonna die fast and quiet. 
speaker2: what if i do a new poll? we give him detailed public opinion.
speaker1: and we put sydney in the new model?
speaker1: a.j., it's meaningless unless we ask him about sydney.
speaker3: fine. do it.

speaker1: this was delicious. thank you. is there any left? 
speaker2: tons. i didn't think you liked it.
speaker1: are you kidding me, of course i did. but actually it's not for me. the agent who checked the food thought it was delicious, and i sort of told him i'd bring him some if there was any left.
speaker2: so you didn't like it.
speaker1: no, i loved it.
speaker2: you're lying.
speaker1: no, i'm not.
speaker2: you are. i can tell when you're holding something back. you do a thing with your face.
speaker1: when have you seen me do a thing with my face?
speaker2: two days before i met you. you gave a speech for the daughters of the american revolution. i was there.
speaker1: you were?
speaker2: you remember the speech?
speaker1: vaguely.
speaker2: "american can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society."
speaker1: ah.
speaker2: there was supposed to be something else after that, wasn't there?
speaker1: how did you know?
speaker2: i told you. the face.
speaker1: wow...what's the occasion?
speaker2: you're looking at a lady who's two votes shy of the promised land.
speaker1: two votes?
speaker2: i got pennybaker. that got me cass and zimmer.
speaker1: that's great, sydney. i mean it.
speaker2: well, i'm not there yet.
speaker1: look, no matter what happens, you have every right to be proud of yourself.
speaker2: i'll be proud when i see you sign the bill.
speaker1: yeah, well...
speaker2: andy.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: you're doing that thing with your face.

speaker1: how're the numbers? 
speaker2: bad.
speaker1: how bad?
speaker2: forty-one. character across the board.
speaker1: who is lewis on with?
speaker2: jarrett. he's trying to keep his finger in the dam.
speaker3: but you're not gonna stay at 41. the numbers are gonna be go back up. but they're gonna go back up. george... congressman... congressman jarrett... george, it's crunch time. it's personal. this is one of those moments. it's just you and the president. now that's it gonna be?
speaker3: yeah. yeah. hey, george? can i tell you something? we're gonna win this thing. we're gonna get the votes and we're gonna win. and after we do, i mean that very night, i'm gonna go to sam and harry's, i'm gonna order a big steak, and i'm gonna make a list of everybody who tried to us this week.
speaker1: lewis!
speaker3: we lost jarrett.
speaker3: karen, it's lewis. could you hunt down congressman quincy for me. i need to talk to him right way.

speaker1: we lost quincy, too. 
speaker2: did he give a reason?
speaker3: he thinks your numbers aren't likely to rebound.
speaker4: we're three votes down again, sir.
speaker4: mr. president, as of this morning, sydney only needed one more vote. the motown three have gotta be scared blind. i don't think there'll be a better opportunity.
speaker5: the press is expecting an announcement on the crime bill by the sate of the union.
speaker4: if you agree to stick 455 in a drawer until after the elections, they'll give you the three votes.
speaker5: and we declare victory, sir.
speaker2: we said as a last resort.
speaker4: we're there, sir. the state of the union is 48 hours away.
speaker2: no. come on. there's gotta be three votes someplace else.
speaker4: there isn't.
speaker2: bullshit, leon. there's gotta be somebody we haven't--
speaker4: there isn't, sir.
speaker2: storch.
speaker4: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: what about storch?
speaker1: mr. president--
speaker4: storch is a "no."
speaker2: wagner.
speaker4: no.
speaker2: sobel.
speaker4: no.
speaker2: clark.
speaker4: no.
speaker2: not that clark, the one from indiana.
speaker4: that one too, sir.
speaker1: mr. president, i think we have to do it.
speaker2: she is one vote away, a.j. it's important legislation that for the first time has a legitimate chance. i think she deserves every possible opportunity to--
speaker3: she? you meant "it," didn't you, sir? you meant the "important legislation" deserves every opportunity.
speaker1: lewis, shut up.
speaker2: you got something to say to me?
speaker3: respectfully, sir. i think we should examine the new poll for more than its value as a box score.
speaker2: examine what? they don't like that i'm going out with sydney.
speaker3: it's not that simple, sir. i think this poll helps bribg a murky problem into specific relief.
speaker2: whose problem we talking about, lewis? yours? you worried about your job? this poll isn't talking about my presidency. this poll is talking about my life. two hundred and sixty-four million people have decided--
speaker3: mr. president, two hundred and sixty- four million people don't give a about your life. they give a about their own.
speaker1: all right, that's enough.
speaker3: mr. president, you've raised a daughter almost entirely on your own, and she's terrific. what does it say to you that in the last seven weeks, 59 percent of this country has begun to question your family values?
speaker1: the president doesn't answer to you, lewis.
speaker3: oh yes, he does, a.j. i'm a citizen, this is my president, and in this country it is not only permissible to question our leaders, it is our responsibility. but you already know that, mr. president, because you have a deeper love of this country than any man i've ever known, and i want to know what it says to you that in the past seven weeks 59 percent of americans have begun to question your patriotism?
speaker2: look, if people want to listen to bob rumson--
speaker3: they don't have a choice! rob rumson's the only one doing the talking. people want leadership. and in the absence of genuine leadership, they will listen to anyone who steps up to the microphone. they want leadership, mr. president. they're so thirsty for it, they'll crawl through the desert toward a mirage, and when they discover there's no water, they'll drink the sand.
speaker2: lewis, we've had presidents who were beloved, who couldn't find a coherent sentence with two hands and a flashlight. people don't drink the sand, 'cause they're thirsty, lewis. they drink it 'cause they don't know the difference. the room is slightly stunned by what their president has just said.
speaker2: make the deal.

speaker1: i want to go on the record and apologize for my attitude toward you since your arrival. 
speaker2: i didn't notice. was there an attitude?
speaker1: i think i have a lot of pent-up hostility.
speaker2: well--
speaker1: i wonder who i can blame it on.
speaker2: i'm not really qualified to--
speaker1: 'cause i've been blaming it on my mother and my ex-husband, and that hasn't been working.
speaker3: leo needs to see you.
speaker2: tell him to get over here. it's a party.
speaker3: he needs to see you in his office.
speaker2: it can't wait?
speaker3: he just got off the phone with macinerney. there's been a development.

speaker1: sounds good. 
speaker2: it's progressive.
speaker1: i'll say.
speaker2: hey, dad, what's wrong with sydney?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: she seemed pretty--
speaker1: you saw her?
speaker2: she's here.
speaker1: where?
speaker2: in your room. why is she mad?
speaker1: don't worry about it.
speaker2: were you a dork?
speaker1: practice your music.
speaker2: if you were a dork, you should say you're sorry. girls like that.

speaker1: syd? 
speaker2: have you seen a gray cableknit sweater?
speaker1: a grey...sweater? no. i called you at the office, but...
speaker2: it's beth's. i wore it here one time, and i didn't want to leave it.
speaker1: where were you going?
speaker2: i'm going home, and then i'm going to hartford.
speaker1: connecticut?
speaker2: yes. do you know if it was sent with your dry cleaning by any--
speaker1: what's in connecticut?
speaker2: richard reynolds' campaign. he may be able to get me a job.
speaker1: when did you decide to get a new job?
speaker2: not long after leo solomon fired me from my old one. beth's gonna kill me. she loves that--
speaker1: why did he fire you?
speaker2: total failure to achieve any of the objectives for which i was hired. i told him he was being unreasonable. after all, i did get to dance with the president and ride in air force one a couple of times. but you know those prickly environmentalists. it's always gonna be something with them. if it's not clean air, then it's clean water. like it isn't good enough that i'm on the cover of people magazine.
speaker1: i'll call him.
speaker2: you'll call him? you mean you'll call him yourself? personally? it'll come from the president? that's a great idea. i think you should call leo and make a deal. he hires me back for, say, 72 days. i go around scaring the out of congress, making them think that the president's about to drive through a very damaging and costly bill. they'll believe me, right, 'cause i'm the president's friday night girl. now i don't know if you can dip into this well twice, especially since i've lost all credibility in politics, but you never know, i might just be able to pull it off again. i might be able to give you just the leverage you need to pass some ground-breaking piece of crime legislation -- like a mandatory three-day waiting period before a five-year-old can buy an uzi. the sweater -- she'll have to learn to live with disappointment.
speaker1: what do you think went on here today?
speaker2: i know exactly what went on here today. i got screwed. you saw the poll, you needed the crime bill, you couldn't get it on your own, so i got screwed.
speaker1: the environment got screwed. nothing happened to you today, sydney. governing is choosing. governing is prioritizing. i've made no secret of the fact that the crime bill was my top priority.
speaker2: well then, congratulations. it's only taken you three years to put together crime prevention legislation that has no hope of preventing crime.
speaker1: sydney. please. i don't want to lose you over this.
speaker2: mr. president, you got bigger problems than losing me. you just lost my vote. and sydney is out the door...

speaker1: hartfort? what's in hartford? 
speaker2: richard reynolds' district office. she's thinking of running his campaign. four in the corner.
speaker2: hartford. the insurance capital of the world. have a good time, syd.
speaker1: listen. i'm gonna have janie clear your schedule for the weekend. you need to get some rest.
speaker2: you handling me, a.j.?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker2: good. 14 in the side.

speaker1: but i sure as will if you don't start gettin' your head outta your ass. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: lewis is right. go after this guy.
speaker2: has he lied?!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: has rumson lied in the last seven weeks?
speaker1: has he lied?
speaker2: other than not knowing the difference between harvard and stanford, has he said something that isn't true? am i not a commander-in-chief who's never served in the military? am i not opposed to a constitutional amendment banning flag burning? am i not an unmarried father who was sharing a bed with a liberal lobbyist down the hall from my twelve-year-old daughter?
speaker1: and you think you're wrong?
speaker2: i don't think you win elections by telling 59 percent of the people that they are.
speaker1: we fight the fights we can win.
speaker2: don't--
speaker1: you fight the fights that need fighting!
speaker2: is the view pretty good from the cheap seats, a.j.?
speaker1: i beg your pardon.
speaker2: it occurs to me that in 25 years i've never seen your name on a ballot. why have you always been standing a pace behind me?
speaker1: because if i hadn't been, you'd be the most popular history professor at the university of wisconsin.
speaker2: you.
speaker2: have lewis put the final drafts of the state of the union and the crime bill announcement on my desk in the morning.
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: if mary hadn't died...would we have won three years ago?
speaker1: would we have won?
speaker2: if we'd had to go through a character debate three years ago, would we have won?
speaker1: i don't know. but i would've liked that campaign. if my friend andy shepherd had shown up, i would have liked that campaign.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: you're not hungry? 
speaker2: this is oatmeal.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: we never have oatmeal.
speaker1: it's good for you.
speaker2: i'm from wisconsin. i need food.
speaker1: you're not from wisconsin. i'm from wisconsin. you've lived in washington your whole life.
speaker1: how are you doing in your constitutional debates?
speaker2: we're done.
speaker1: you're done?
speaker2: we ratified it last week.
speaker1: oh...well...that's good. why didn't you tell me?
speaker2: it's not a big deal, dad.
speaker1: okay, i give up. i don't care why you're not happy in social studies. i care about why you're not talking to me about why you're not happy in social studies.
speaker2: dad, i'm perfectly--
speaker1: you're not perfectly happy. you don't think i know when something's bothering you?
speaker2: damnit, dad!
speaker1: hey!
speaker2: you know--
speaker1: talk to me.
speaker2: look--
speaker2: --sometimes when you talk, you say things i disagree with.
speaker1: almost every time i talk, i say things you disagree with.
speaker2: i mean politically.
speaker1: politically?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: yes. okay. yes. sometimes, i mean, i'm not sure. you know a lot more than i do -- but still, i have these feelings, and i don't think they're wrong. like, okay, for instance, i'm not so sure it's all right to burn a flag. i mean, it really bothers a lot of people, and i don't know why you think it's okay. i hear senator rumson talk, and some of the things he says sounds right to me, and i think, "god, am i like bob rumson?! i mean, dad thinks he's a jerk. dad hates this guy! why am i agreeing with him" and then i think, "well, maybe i'm not really like bob rumson, but maybe i'm not like dad either." but the point is i'm the president's kid, and people pay attention to what i say, and if i say something different from what you say, it'll be embarrassing for you. so i can't just get up in social studies class and say whatever i want.
speaker1: stand up please. lucy gets up slowly...
speaker1: in your lifetime, you will never embarrass me. it could never happen. you're not the president's daughter, lucy, you're mine. and no one's gonna vote me out of that job. you're my daughter, and everything else is a distant second. school is for you, lucy. you say what you want. the only thing you have to do to make me happy is come home at the end of the day. lucy squeezes her dad tight...they hold the embrace for a long moment.
speaker1: one more thing. i don't dislike senator rumson because of his political views. and even if you voted for everything he would vote for, that wouldn't make you like him. there's a fundamental difference between you and the bob rumsons of the world.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: the difference is that he says he loves america. saying you love america is easy. what takes character -- and this is what you have--
speaker1: luce, i gotta go.
speaker2: dad, is everything all right?
speaker1: everything's fine. i'm just a little late for work.
speaker1: somebody get my daughter some food! the girl's from wisconsin, for cryin' out loud!

speaker1: robin, will the president ever respond to senator rumson's question about being a member of the american civil liberties union? 
speaker2: yes, he will. 'morning.
speaker3: good morning, mr. president.
speaker2: that's all right, you can keep your seats. for the last couple of months, senator rumson has suggested that being president of this country was, to a certain extent, about character...

speaker1: lewis...call a.j. and come on down here...i don't know, but something's happening. 
speaker2: ...and although i have not been willing to engage in his attacks on me, i've been here three years and three days, and i can tell you without hesitation: being president of this country is entirely about character.
speaker2: for the record: yes, i am a card- carrying member of the a.c.l.u. but the more important question is why aren't you, bob? this is an organization whose sole purpose is to defend the bill of rights, so it naturally begs the questions.
speaker2: why would a senator, his party's most powerful spokesman and a candidate for president, choose to reject upholding the constitution? if you can answer that question, then, folks, you're smarter than i am, because i didn't understand it until a couple of minutes ago. everybody knows american isn't easy. america is advanced citizenship.
speaker2: you gotta want it bad, 'cause it's gonna put up a fight. it's gonna say, "you want free speech? let's see you acknowledge a man whose words make your blood boil, who's standing center stage and advocating, at the top of his lungs, that which you would spend a lifetime opposing at the top of yours. you want to claim this land as the land of the free, then the symbol of your country can't just be a flag; the symbol also has to be one of its citizens exercising his right to burn that flag in protest." show me that, defend that, celebrate that in your classrooms. then you can stand up and sing about the land of the free. i've known bob rumson for years. i've been operating under the assumption that the reason bob devotes so much time and energy to shouting at the rain was that he simply didn't get it. well, i was wrong.
speaker2: bob's problem isn't that he doesn't get it. bob's problem is that he can't sell it. nobody has ever won an election by talking about what i was just talking about.
speaker2: this is a country made up of people with hard jobs that they're terrified of losing. the roots of freedom are of little or no interest to them at the moment. we are a nation afraid to go out at night. we're a society that has assigned low priority to education and has looked the other way while our public schools have been decimated. we have serious problems to solve, and we need serious men to solve them. and whatever your particular problem is, friend, i promise you, bob rumson is not the least bit interested in solving it. he is interested in two things and two things only: making you afraid of it and telling you who's to blame for it. that, ladies and gentlemen, is how you win elections. you gather a group of middle-aged, middle-class, middle- income voters who remember with longing an easier time, and you talk to them about family and american values and personal character. then you have an old photo of the president's girlfriend. you scream about patriotism and you tell them she's to blame for their lot in life, you go on television and you call her a whore. sydney ellen wade has done nothing to you, bob. she has done nothing but put herself through law school, prosecute criminals for five years, represent the interests of public school teachers for two years, and lobby for the safety of our natural resources.
speaker2: you want a character debate? fine, but you better stick with me, 'cause sydney ellen wade is way out of your league. i've loved two women in my life. i lost one to cancer, and i lost the other 'cause i was so busy keeping my job i forgot to do my job.
speaker2: tomorrow morning the white house is sending a bill to congress for its consideration. it's white house resolution 455, an energy bill requiring a 20 percent reduction of the emission of fossil fuels over the next ten years. it is by far the most aggressive stride ever taken in the fight to reverse the effects of global warming. the other piece of legislation is the crime bill. as of today it no longer exists. i'm throwing it out. i'm throwing it out and writing a law that makes sense. you cannot address crime prevention without getting rid of assault weapons and handguns. i consider them a threat to national security, and i will go door to door if i have to, but i'm gonna convince americans that i'm right, and i'm gonna get the guns. we've got serous problems, and we need serious men, and if you want to talk about character, bob, you'd better come at me with more than a burning flag and a membership card. if you want to talk about character and american values, fine. just tell me where and when, and i'll show up. this is a time for serious men, bob, and your fifteen minutes are up. my name's andrew shepherd, and i am the president. shepherd exits the press room, leaving a stunned room in his wake. the murmurs begin from the press corps. they're talking among themselves, confirming that they just saw what they just saw. robin steps to the podium.
speaker1: any questions?

speaker1: well, you don't see that every day of the week. 
speaker2: he's got the whole white house press corps asking each other how to spell "erudite."
speaker1: lewis, call the printer.
speaker2: i know. gotta rewrite the state of the union.
speaker1: every word, lewis. it's a whole new ball game. you've got 35 minutes.
speaker2: oh, good. i thought i was gonna be rushed.

speaker1: i don't want the limo. i don't want an escort. 
speaker1: i want a plain, ordinary, non- bullet-proof automobile. someone around here must have a chevy i can borrow. well, find one and meet me outside the west wing entrance in five minutes.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: i'm going to her house. i'm gonna stand at her front door till she lets me in. and i'm not leaving till i get her back.
speaker2: how're you gonna do that?
speaker1: i haven't worked that out yet. but i'm sure groveling will be involved.
speaker2: you're just gonna drive over?
speaker1: i'm the commander-in-chief of the most powerful army in the world.
speaker3: just stay away from dupont circle. i hear it's murder this time of day.
speaker3: hi, a.j.
speaker2: it's nice to see you, ms. wade. if anybody needs me, i'll be in the roosevelt room, giving lewis oxygen.
speaker3: i heard your speech. i was in my car, and it just kind of steered its way over here.
speaker1: i'm glad.
speaker1: sydney, i didn't decide to send 455 to the floor to get you back.
speaker3: i didn't come back 'cause you decided to send 455 to the floor.
speaker4: mr. president, i thought you might want to look at this. i moved social security up front. hello, sydney.
speaker5: mr. president, leventhal at treasury wants two minutes. hello, sydney.
speaker6: mr. president -- excuse me, miss wade -- miss mccall is on her way over.
speaker1: i've got some things to do.
speaker3: yes, you do.

speaker1: i'm having a cuff links crisis. 
speaker1: i think they've locked.
speaker2: hold still.
speaker3: mr. president, they're waiting for you.
speaker2: all done.
speaker1: lewis.
speaker4: sir.
speaker1: things have been a little rough between us lately.
speaker4: i know sir, i'm sorry.
speaker1: don't stop what you're doing.
speaker4: that's kind of you, sir, but i realize i've been a little insensitive about some personal...
speaker1: no, you were right. two hundred and sixty-four million people don't give a about my life.
speaker4: just so you know i've never been one of them, mr. president.
speaker3: this way, people. let's go.
speaker1: see you after.
speaker1: whatcha got there, luce?
speaker2: article 2, section 3, of the u.s. constitution. executive powers. "he shall, from time to time, give to the congress information of the state of the union, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient."
speaker5: sounds right up your alley.
speaker5: give 'em hell, andy.
speaker5: you've got 30 seconds, mr. president.
speaker1: thank you. i'll see you afterward. i want a critique.
speaker1: there's been something i've been trying to give you since our first date. i tried a bunch of times, but somehow i've always managed to trip over my job. anyay... shepherd has picked his black canvas gym bag with the gold presidential seal.
speaker1: these are for you.
speaker6: they're beautiful.
speaker7: mr. president?
speaker1: gotta go.
speaker6: should i stay here?
speaker1: no, walk with me.
speaker6: how'd you finally do it?
speaker1: do what?
speaker6: manage to give a woman flowers and be president at the same time.
speaker1: well...it turns out i've got a rose garden. sydney is stopped in her tracks as-- --the doors to the chamber fly open--
speaker8: mr. speaker!!!...the president of the

