speaker1: this informant, paid by the police, using taxpayers dollars to continue his felony drug habit, was the link which allowed police to raid a private farm. a working farm. a farm where honest americans make their living. 
speaker1: the government, in its haste, has employed an army of criminals whose allegiance to the truth is, at best, questionable -- judge wakefield interrupts --
speaker2: mr. rodman...it's too bad your client didn't show as much sense in choosing what he planted as he did in choosing his attorney...
speaker2: lately the only variation i'm hearing in your argument is the name of the client. and you can sit there all day arguing the ins and outs of illinois v. gates, but you aren't going to convince me that this country has not sanctioned the use of anonymous informants. furthermore, there is no sacred protection of property rights in the united sates. when you make the decision to have marijuana on your farm, whether it's one joint or an acre of plants, your property can be seized and your property can be sold.
speaker1: i'm sorry the court finds my argument repetitious.
speaker2: mr. rodman, may i offer a piece of advice? the next time you argue this point before this court, regardless of my whereabouts, i recommend you have something up your sleeve other than your arm.

speaker1: what do you think it is? 
speaker2: depends who it's from.
speaker1: your friends at warren, putnam and hudson.
speaker2: you can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff. three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me. definitely third category.
speaker1: what would a law firm want from the new drug czar?
speaker2: depends on the state.
speaker1: arizona.
speaker2: medicinal marijuana initiative. or am i being cynical?
speaker1: maybe there's a book in it.
speaker2: not by me.

speaker1: i had that dream again. 
speaker2: which one?
speaker1: where my mother's suffocating.

speaker1: is there a problem? 
speaker2: no. there's no problem.
speaker1: okay. i see. how much do you want?
speaker1: you want more than this?
speaker1: you want something else?
speaker2: drop the package. put your hands behind your head. you're under arrest.
speaker1: i don't understand. i think there must be some mistake.
speaker2: no, there's no mistake.

speaker1: what's your name? 
speaker2: javier rodriguez.
speaker1: well, javier rodriguez, you've done a very good job, but we'll take care of it from here.
speaker1: we've been following these narco- trafficantes for some time but had not been able to bring them to justice. put the prisoners in the car. impound the truck.
speaker1: one question. how did you find about this?
speaker2: an informant.
speaker1: what is the name of your informant?
speaker2: it was an anonymous tip.
speaker1: for a state police officer, you're very well informed. let's go.
speaker3: javi and manolo watch the convoy of vehicles drive away.
speaker4: wasn't that general salazar?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: what's he doing up here?
speaker2: i don't know. something.

speaker1: no telltales. nothing to read. not touching my face. not even blinking. no giveaways. how're you feeling? 
speaker2: i feel good.
speaker1: no more pissant basin league for us, hunh?
speaker2: nope.
speaker1: limbering up, gonna stay loose, keep it all together. take this down.
speaker1: showtime.

speaker1: you ever buy a quarter ton? not many people have. 
speaker1: so, it's worth the wait, right? what can i do? rent a huey? have an airlift? it's not like you can put it in a condom up some mule's asshole, right? how many peasants would that take? a line stretching from here to mexico city --
speaker2: nobody said eduardo --
speaker1: relax. we're waiting, that's it.
speaker3: hey, you want to hear a joke? i got a joke. why do women wear makeup and perfume?
speaker2: chill out --
speaker3: it's a funny joke and it's quick. why do women wear makeup and perfume?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker3: 'cause they're ugly and they stink.

speaker1: man, you never been close enough to a woman to know how she smells. 
speaker2: what's his hand doing? watch his hand. anybody? i don't like the hand.

speaker1: this is ridiculous this thing. look at this -- the first television transmission. i had better when i was the av guy at junior high, swear-to-god. 
speaker2: come on, castro, pay attention.

speaker1: three unmarked vehicles. three unmarked vehicles accompanying. 
speaker1: it's local. local or customs. oh, man, i don't know. looks like the cavalry.
speaker2: this is our show. ah, man. i don't want to share this one.

speaker1: father of greek tragedy? anyone? okay, aeschylus it is. his trilogy? the oresteia. i mean this is beautiful, can anyone stop the seth machine? score. thank you. madmax from omaha we own you. and tragedy is closed out. 
speaker2: entertainment. the susan lucci section or banal love songs of the nineties?
speaker1: banal love songs it is. hey, you wanna try something?

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: just watch.
speaker2: inhale the smoke and hold it.
speaker1: what is this, like freebase?
speaker2: not like. it is.
speaker2: go... go!
speaker2: hold it.
speaker2: see... now, you see.
speaker1: more.

speaker1: until you officially take over the office of national drug control policy, under no circumstances should you speak to the press unprotected, without going through this office or having someone in the room. there are a lot of interests in this town and, right now, they're all scared of you. the reason they're scared of you...technically, you have veto power over their budgets. so think about that: fbi, cia, dea, customs, treasury, atf, defense, irs, radio shack and the dmv, they're all gonna want to speak to you. and that's the good news... you'll also be meeting senators and congressman, each with a specially prepared question. their question is designed for one thing: to make them look smart. if you lecture them, they won't think you respect them. if you respond with utter humility, they will. remember, this is about your respect for them, and the president's respect for them. speaking of which, as soon as he gets back from russia and china, we'll get you in there for some face- time, let the two of you catch up. it'd probably be a good idea for you to meet your predecessor. i'll have jeff sheridan take you over. also, four weeks from today you will give your first official press conference. in it you will outline the president's strategy for winning the war on drugs. okay, anything else? 
speaker2: i'll be sure to let you know.

speaker1: i just want to be clear about one thing. i used to work for him, but now i work for you. i'm not a partisan person, i'm an issue person. in the next few weeks, if you allow me, we'll get you well-versed on an incredible array of issues. the most important of which, in my opinion, being mexico. i know everybody that you're gonna meet. it's important that they like you. it's not important that they like me. that's why i can help protect you. 
speaker2: like you protected landry?
speaker1: i see where you're going with that, but if i could just say something, which is basically that a guy like landry is so autocratic he doesn't know how to let himself be helped; it's a point of pride to take every bullet, no matter who fired it, or whether it was even aimed at him, which personally i think it very self-defeating. now, don't get me wrong, he's a man of enormous integrity, but there's a political component to this job that the general just didn't have any patience for.

speaker1: jeff, you want to excuse us for a minute? 
speaker1: functionaries. nice people, the schedule c's. about twelve graduate degrees apiece, but it seems sometimes all they do is start rumors.
speaker2: you've done a fine job here, sir. the office of national drug control policy is in better shape than when you found it.
speaker1: i'm not sure i made the slightest difference. i tried... i really did.
speaker2: there are a lot of encouraging statistics. the work's just started, but i intend to see it through. you've got my word on that.
speaker1: you're here for two years, three maximum. what'd they promise you? court appointment? what? district? appeals? not supreme... supreme?
speaker2: i've come in to do a tough job and that's what i'm going to focus on.
speaker1: when kruschev was forced out, he sat down and wrote two letters and handed them to his successor. he said "when you get into a situation you can't get out of, open the first letter and you'll be saved. and when you get into another situation you can't get out of, open the second." soon enough this guy found himself in a tight place. so he opened the first letter. it said, "blame everything on me." so he blamed the old guy and it worked like a charm. he got into another situation he couldn't get out of, so he opened the second letter, which read, "sit down and write two letters."

speaker1: relax. if they were going to kill us they would have done it in the desert. 
speaker2: they wouldn't do it in front of all these people. they'd send someone later, when we're alone.
speaker2: away from the car. now!
speaker1: even if that were true, they're not going to come to your house where you're waiting for them.
speaker3: he's right. they'll do it when you're walking somewhere, make it look like street crime.
speaker2: shut your mouth. nobody's talking to you.

speaker1: if you want her to stay out of it, then stop telling her everything. 
speaker2: she's nosy. she hears me on the telephone.
speaker1: anyway, i don't think we'll ever see them again. everything's back to normal.

speaker1: you're a police officer. aren't you going to take a report or something? don't you want to know what kind of car it is? 
speaker2: it's a brown ford explorer --
speaker1: it was right here. it's been stolen. i want to file a report.
speaker3: please. filing a report will not help you find your car.
speaker4: the police won't find your car.
speaker1: but you're the police.
speaker4: call this man, he'll find your car for you.
speaker2: i don't get it --
speaker1: how will this guy know who has our car?
speaker4: the police will tell him.
speaker2: why will they tell him but they won't tell us?
speaker1: because we pay him, stupid. right? and he pays the police.
speaker4: yes. better than filling out forms, right?
speaker5: javier rodriguez.

speaker1: duck salad? 
speaker2: mmm.
speaker1: helena, you never order duck salad.
speaker2: well, that's true. i don't. i think someone else is asking for it.
speaker1: well, he's got good taste. isn't it the most wonderful thing you ever tasted? i mean ever.
speaker2: it's delicious --
speaker3: they're the most marvelous little creatures. canard. they fly, swim, walk. and so cute with their babies marching along behind.
speaker1: looking for a nice sauce ala orange.
speaker4: it's a very fatty bird. all that winter insulation. just like me.
speaker1: you mean all breast, just like you.
speaker4: you're bad --
speaker1: jealous, that's all --
speaker2: i've heard... i can't remember where... that it's full of that good kind of fat, the kind you're supposed to eat --
speaker3: unsaturated fat --
speaker5: polyunsaturated.
speaker2: and now there's a good cholesterol and bad cholesterol. everything they tell you completely changes every other week. i don't know why they think we should listen at all.
speaker1: what i know is ducks, as cute as they are, were designed by to be eaten.

speaker1: i'll put this in the back. 
speaker2: no --
speaker1: all the professionals keep them in the trunk.
speaker2: not tiger woods.
speaker1: especially tiger woods. ...actually, he keeps his on the back seat.

speaker1: gates, myrhvold, bezos. i sell to all those guys. why? because the technology to intrude has reached the masses. your competitor, your ex-spouse, adversaries, stalkers, they're at the local electronics store right now, and they're gonna be intruding on you not only through your telephone, but your fax, cell phone, pager, cable tv, musak, windows, walls, air conditioning ventilation, modem, and internet connection. 
speaker1: nobody has these babies, no way, not the shiznit.
speaker2: i want to intercept cell phone calls, digital and analog. and locate the source of the call. i need databasing capability, to cross-reference calls and numbers.
speaker1: your cellular secretary, friend across all the digital wireless spread spectrum. so, francisco, what do you do? you a pi? private security?
speaker2: assassin.
speaker1: assassin, okay. let's get you started in surveillance.

speaker1: we in the legal drug business, and i mean merck, pfizer, the rest of my very powerful clients, realize this isn't a war with a traditional winner and loser, but an organism at war with itself, whose weapons of mass destruction happen to be intoxicants. and if you want a body count look no further than alcohol which racks up 80,000 kills a year. cocaine manages a measly 2,000. same for heroin. but, the big daddy is big tobacco which kills 380,000 each year, which, by the way, is more people than have been killed by all the illegal drugs in the last century. 
speaker2: that's very interesting.

speaker1: what's the difference between prozac and ecstacy, you ask? one's a mattress and the other's a trampoline. molecules don't have morality. really, think about it: some molecule changes the way a serotonin re-uptake inhibitor works, it's not suddenly a bad molecule; it's just a molecule. my theory: america has a real fear of short, intense experiences. 
speaker2: like you.
speaker3: robert at the bar getting another scotch. a secretive man, tim, 40's, nerdy, sidles up beside him and whispers furtively in his ear.
speaker4: chemicals? some say problems, others say solution. imagine a cloud that when it rains prohibits the growth of poppies or takes the thc out of marijuana. imagine a pill that eliminates any psychological craving, from dilaudid to dove bars. law enforcement hasn't let science sit on the sidelines. addiction is no more relevant than polio or the black plague. tim slips away into the crowd. robert moves away from the bar.

speaker1: you're not battling traffickers or dealers, but a market, and the market contains a paradox: if you arrest traffickers, you raise prices, and you also raise profits, which brings more traffickers into the business. 
speaker2: back in the real world, we're talking about mexico and not john maynard keynes. we will spend 18 billion dollars this year on this "war," and the question on the table every year is do we certify mexico as an ally or not? another man, rush phillips, a middle-aged powerbroker, overhears, then joins and robert is encircled.
speaker3: you want to make a difference, hit the users. you don't jeopardize our financial markets by some hypocritical stance on drug consumption. we're snorting it, why penalize mexico for supplying it?
speaker2: mexico, don't talk to me about mexico --
speaker1: it's the stick of law enforcement that creates the carrot of huge profits... that's economic truth --
speaker3: addicts don't vote; they don't have pacs; they don't spend soft money, that's political truth --
speaker2: we're locking them up and consumption is falling --
speaker1: the price of coke and heroin has dropped and purity has increased. all this law enforcement has achieved is kids can get better stuff, cheaper. in economic terms, you can forget it; this is not a winnable war.
speaker3: christ, you want to decertify somebody, take pakistan or columbia.
speaker1: if you manage to seize an inconceivable 50 percent of all drugs coming into this country, you'll still raise the price of coke and heroin less than 3 percent which won't affect drug use at all.
speaker3: why are we calling this a war at all? you don't declare war on your own people. addiction is a little worm that gnaws a house apart from the inside.
speaker2: we need mexico for these reasons: number one -- defense; two -- trade; three -- tourism; then, way on down the line, comes drugs. the president knows this. why's he holding everybody's feet to the fire?
speaker4: mr. wakefield, there's a situation that needs your attention right away. robert looks at michael, squints, looks closer, then follows.
speaker3: one in sixteen americans is of mexican descent. mexico our third largest trading partner...

speaker1: you're looking pretty good for an old guy. 
speaker2: my work keeps me young.
speaker1: which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
speaker2: the worst serial killer in history - who? gacy - right? killed forty two people. our government killed fifty thousand in vietnam and lied about it every day.
speaker1: michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
speaker2: we kidnapped noriega out of panama. is that covered in your constitution?
speaker1: noriega is a criminal.
speaker2: noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the u.s. government. so, no, i don't have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
speaker1: last i read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
speaker2: i hope when you were on the bench, judge wakefield, you didn't handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
speaker1: if i ever return to the bench, counselor adler, i hope i have the pleasure of hearing your arguments.

speaker1: you planning on going somewhere, eduardo? you don't like it here? this is the best situation you're going to have for a long, long time. 
speaker2: i am a legitimate business. fishing boats. tuna. check it out. tax records, everything --
speaker1: listen you you tried to kill me with a cannon.
speaker2: you can't visit me here. i want my lawyer.
speaker1: the amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some states.
speaker3: move 'em to texas, fry 'em up.
speaker1: we got you on tape making the deal. we got you bragging about the quality. we got you bragging about your business. we got you.
speaker1: one chance here, eduardo. make us believe you got a boss. no boss, it's all on you.
speaker2: it's a death sentence. i'll never make it to the trial.
speaker1: we can protect you.
speaker3: who do you work for?
speaker2: this is coercion.
speaker1: that's a big word for a fisherman.
speaker3: who do you work for?
speaker2: i know another word... immunity.

speaker1: daddy! 
speaker2: hello. hello.

speaker1: this is america, a different country. i am carl, a different man. so you see, everything about our situation is different and i believe the pricing will be different, too. you're a reasonable man... so take the weekend to think about it. 
speaker1: every day with this guy is like starting all over again.
speaker1: hi.
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: what's up?
speaker2: just watching you.
speaker1: i got that. how was your day?
speaker1: you all right?
speaker2: i keep feeling like i'm forgetting something.

speaker1: david, come inside -- 
speaker2: what is this? what is going on?
speaker3: mr. ayala?
speaker2: that's right.
speaker3: you're under arrest for violation of federal narcotics laws.
speaker3: we have a warrant to search your home, mrs. ayala.

speaker1: javier rodriguez. twenty-nine years- old. graduated from montessori school. five years as a beat cop in tj. three years with the state police. parents died four years ago in their apartment from carbon monoxide poisoning because they could not afford to fix their gas heater. your sister works in a maquiladora in juarez, making designer blue-jeans. on the police force three years, you currently make 316 dollars a month. 
speaker1: that's your past. i want to talk about your future. would you be willing to do something for me?
speaker2: if i can.
speaker1: i'm trying to bust the tijuana cartel.
speaker2: what is it you want me to do?
speaker1: a small thing. nothing really.
speaker2: does this offer include my partner?
speaker1: only if he can be trusted.
speaker2: he'll do what i say.
speaker1: his name is francisco flores. he is a killer and gun smuggler for the tijuana cartel. i need to speak with him. i need you to find him and bring him to me so that i can speak with him.
speaker3: this is crazy. instead of killing us, he sends us on a suicide mission. do you know who frankie flowers is? he's a psycho-cokehead- hitman. a faggot. he's killed who knows how many people. you'd need half the force to get close to him. and you can't get their help because he lives in san diego.
speaker2: then i guess i'm going by myself.

speaker1: what's it like? imagine you're being accosted by a swarm of beggars in the heart of calcutta, except the beggars are wearing $1500 suits and they don't say "please" or "thank you." 
speaker2: what about legalizing everything?
speaker1: fine -- legalization. okay, forgetting all of our international trade agreements, legalize everything today. the government inserts itself into all drug transactions. the u.s. becomes a giant pharmacy. our borders are mobbed, lines of people from here to europe wanting to smoke, snort and shoot themselves into oblivion.
speaker3: like a grateful dead concert.
speaker1: drugs begin pouring out of america into every other country in the world. canada is completely overwhelmed.
speaker2: what if every country legalized at the same time?
speaker1: somehow, i don't see that happening.

speaker1: so you know we put the case before the arbitration panel, none of whom had any expertise. superfund is just one of those words. people stop paying attention. 
speaker2: that's frustrating.
speaker1: it's so frustrating.
speaker3: did you meet the president?
speaker1: honey, your father knows the president.
speaker2: as it happens, the president of the united states, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
speaker3: will we get invited to the white house?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: how long's the job?
speaker2: it's a presidential appointment so... until i quit or get fired.
speaker1: czar for life, just like a real czar.
speaker3: that makes mom the czarina. i'm a czarette. like anastasia.
speaker3: none of my friends can believe my dad is the actual drug czar.
speaker1: caroline --
speaker3: sorry, but i mean, come on.
speaker3: it's great, daddy. it's just amazing, that's all.

speaker1: helena, i'm so sorry -- 
speaker2: arnie, thank
speaker2: can you please tell me what on earth is going on?
speaker1: i understand. you're upset. you want to know what's going on. that's good.
speaker2: why are you talking like that?
speaker1: listen to me carefully. first of all, carl isn't here. dea's got him and they'll hang on to him until arraignment, which will probably be tomorrow. so here you're wasting your time. are you with me?
speaker1: good. from now on i want you to expect that every word you utter will be tape-recorded, that the movement of your lips is being read.
speaker2: arnie, this is crazy.
speaker1: got it? good. do not discuss anything over the telephone. do not talk to the neighbors. stay out of your yard.
speaker2: what is he being charged with?
speaker1: i don't know, but under no circumstances would i talk about it here. i want you to go home and relax the best you can. continue your life as if nothing has happened.
speaker2: arnie, i feel like alice stepping through the looking glass.
speaker1: that's a very apt analogy, helena. now, go home and be with your children.

speaker1: i'm curious how you did this with such economy. 
speaker2: everybody has a weakness.

speaker1: all i'm saying, what i'm saying, is it never seems like anybody ever says anything that matters to them, like we all look at each other and nod with responses we've been trained to make, not real responses, just social conventions, phony, fake smiles, surface i mean, we're all smart and do we have any idea what each other are like, really like? do i know what seth's afraid of, or vanessa, or fucked-up bowman? 
speaker1: ...probably, but do i ever say this stuff, just say, "hey, i'm uncomfortable in this crowd, i don't know what the i'm doing, either? i know you're afraid and it's okay--

speaker1: we act like we have all the answers and we're totally invincible like our parents seem and their parents before them and it's -- 
speaker2: for instance --
speaker1: for instance i know you thinking about caroline even though you're supposedly "in love" with vanessa. whatever the that means? i mean, what is that convention, anyway? we're all these random collections of self-interest, and then we just decide that now we're two people walking along -- caroline expels a hit of rock cocaine --
speaker3: and vanessa doesn't think she's pretty so she does all these weird diets which is totally about self- esteem. and she's beautiful. and that's not even fair. because listen to me. i'm lying right now. this is exactly what i'm talking about... i'm supposedly talking about you, making some big point about you, and it's really about me. so i should talk about me, not you, not even the universal "you..." okay. okay, i'm worried i'm not really smart or that i'm not nearly as smart as people think i am, or that my parents' expectations have been way too high since i was five, i mean who knows they're going to harvard when they're five, not that i'm blaming them for anything because everything's great, and i may not even get in, but we all feel this and we never acknowledge it and if we can't acknowledge it to the people we care the most about then who will we ever say it too and what kind of life will that be?
speaker2: i thinking about seth. everybody i know does.
speaker3: ach, that's what i'm talking about. sarcasm. always sarcasm. you're afraid and you think if you admit it people will think you're weak or won't like you --
speaker1: we live our lives by these unspoken rules that are handed to us.
speaker4: let's be different --
speaker2: i can't feel my hands.
speaker2: i'm serious --
speaker4: he's blue. he isn't breathing --
speaker3: is he breathing?
speaker1: what do we do? okay. fucked-up bowman's turning blue. doctor. we need a doctor.
speaker4: your dad's a doctor. call him --
speaker1: he's a research doctor. you're dad's a doctor, too --
speaker4: what kind of research?
speaker1: mapping the pig genome. we'll call your dad, he's a neurosurgeon --
speaker4: it's three a.m. i'm not supposed to be here. i snuck out --
speaker3: are you kidding... i'm staying with you --
speaker1: he's gonna die right here on the kitchen floor --
speaker5: he can't. my parents are in barbados --

speaker1: we know tijuana cartel gunmen killed our chief of intelligence, francisco. we know you killed police commanders in tijuana and mexico city. why do you resist? 
speaker2: my father is rich. he'll pay you.
speaker1: not the correct answer, my friend.
speaker1: we know that you went after the neighbor of general salazar, a simple alfalfa farmer. his grand-daughter was shot. this is stupid behavior, francisco.

speaker1: this is fabulous, helena. what a turnout. 
speaker2: thank you so much, but i had a lot of help.
speaker3: it's a turnout because it's a spectacle. can you imagine?
speaker4: i've met her husband, as nice as they come.
speaker1: it teaches me a valuable lesson... apparently crime pays.
speaker3: silly, you knew that already.

speaker1: ...how old are you? 
speaker2: sixteen
speaker1: live with your parents?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: parents still together?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: do you work?
speaker2: i volunteer. i read to blind people. one day a week for two hours.
speaker1: in school?
speaker2: cincinnati country day.
speaker1: private?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how are your grades?
speaker2: i'm third in my class.
speaker1: what's that mean?
speaker2: i get a's. all a's.
speaker1: you do? what else you do?
speaker2: i'm a national merit finalist. i'm on the hi-q team and the math team. i'm in the spanish club. i'm a thespian. i'm vice-president of my class. i'm on the volleyball team.
speaker1: you wanna tell me what you're doing here, caroline?

speaker1: did you tell dad? 
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: are you going to?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: is this bad for him?
speaker2: what do you think?

speaker1: i am on the board of my son's school. i had a fundraiser for a.l.v. in my front yard. i have a right to know if my husband is a legitimate businessman. 
speaker2: of course he is. i've known him for twenty years and he doesn't jaywalk...
speaker2: ...carl is a very important member of this community and when we're through suing the police and the district attorney and the dea, they'll have to rename the public parks for your husband.
speaker2: your husband is very good at his job...
speaker2: which is smuggling illegal drugs into this country.

speaker1: they're whispering. i can't hear them, but i know it. i smell conspiracy. i feel the lie vibrating out of the home. 
speaker2: she ain't in on it.
speaker1: i have dreams about this, actual dreams about busting the top people, the rich people, the white people.
speaker2: i'm telling you, she doesn't know
speaker1: she knows arnie metzger.
speaker2: so does half of san diego.
speaker1: you want to make a wager on this?

speaker1: if all our assets are frozen and our "sales force" has scattered... how am i supposed to survive? i'm giving birth in three months. how do i get through this? 
speaker2: you're gonna get through it, but the first thing we do is get michael adler to represent carl. we get adler and we beat this thing.
speaker1: how much do i pay him?
speaker2: i suspect he'll accept his payment in publicity.

speaker1: caroline? how well did you know this boy who overdosed? 
speaker2: he didn't hang around us. he's like one of those hippie kids. i'm not part of that group. it was a party in all these rooms. his girlfriend who i barely know was completely hysterical... he's blue, he's puking... we didn't want to get in trouble, but what were we supposed to do? i mean, what would you have done if you had been us?
speaker3: how well do you know this boy, seth, who was driving? you know the police have charged him with a dui and possession of marijuana.
speaker2: he's a friend. he's also like the only one who was dealing with the situation. he'd definitely had a few beers, but it's not like he wanted to drive. we didn't know what else to do. it wasn't my pot.
speaker1: okay, honey. we understand. you're mother and i have to talk.
speaker3: honey, we'd like to talk alone.
speaker2: like always.
speaker1: i think she's lying.
speaker3: me, too.
speaker1: we'll ground her, clip her wings a bit. school and scheduled activities and that's it until further notice. this has to be handled delicately. dan kelly, in the district attorney's office, will probably help us out, quietly. christ, this could be embarrassing.
speaker3: honey, this is difficult, but we've all had our moments. i tried --
speaker1: stop. you experimented in college.
speaker3: should we take the quotes off experiment and call it what it is?
speaker1: this is different.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: to begin with, she's only sixteen years-old.
speaker3: i think she has to find out for herself, on her own. we have to allow her space --
speaker1: space for what? to o.d. like that other kid? i will not send the message that this type of behavior is okay with her parents. because it isn't. correct?
speaker3: we don't want to push her away. these are growing experiences.
speaker1: how long have you known about this?
speaker1: how long have you known?
speaker3: six months. i found some marijuana, that's all. and a little pipe about two inches long. i talked with her. she said her friends smoked pot and drank --
speaker1: explain to me how you could think that i shouldn't know about this. explain to me how this wouldn't be relevant to me. as a parent.
speaker3: she asked me not to.

speaker1: you watch and learn. i earn his trust. then more pain. then i appear with kindness. within a week he will follow me around like a dog. 
speaker2: but will he be house-trained?
speaker1: when he loves me like a father, he will never tell anyone he was here. he will freely give the names of his superiors. then we get them and they too will give us names. and eventually somebody will get us to juan obregon and the cartel will fall.

speaker1: this is shameful. a disgrace. francisco flores -- francisco cowers in the corners -- 
speaker1: it's all right, son. it's all right. salazar is here. you're among gentlemen, now. this shameful treatment will stop immediately. guard!
speaker1: i want to know who is responsible for this treatment.
speaker2: yes, sir!
speaker1: we aren't barbarians.
speaker2: yes, sir!
speaker1: bring this man a change of good clothes. has he eaten?
speaker2: i don't know, sir.

speaker1: this is a man who heads a large criminal organization with international contacts we can only begin to understand. our case against him is very strong. he is not a flight risk. his flight is assured. the people ask that your honor denies bail. 
speaker2: my client is no more a flight risk than your honor or the able prosecutor. he is a pillar of his community, a family man with a wife and child in la jolla, the community where he has made his home for over twenty years. as our defense will quickly show, my client is guilty of nothing more than being a handy target for an admitted criminal. therefore we ask that you release carl ayala on his own recognizance. adler sits. the judge makes a quick decision.
speaker3: i'm gonna deny bail.

speaker1: mrs. ayala, were you aware your husband is the largest cocaine smuggler in america? 
speaker2: alleged, people, alleged.
speaker3: mrs. ayala is it true your husband has ordered a hit on eduardo ruiz?
speaker2: carl ayala sits on the board of the children's hospital. he is heavily involved with adult literacy. he has a small boy and another child on the way. if you spread this kind of innuendo, you can expect legal recourse. are we clear on this point?

speaker1: i appreciate you coming in so early. 
speaker2: judge wakefield, it's an honor to handle it for you. consider it gone away. she's a minor; it probably would've expunged on her 18th birthday anyway.
speaker1: still, this was a sensitive issue for me and i wanted to thank you personally.
speaker2: like i said, open container, p.i., misdemeanor possession. easy to make it disappear. for you, poof, it's gone.
speaker2: one thing bothers me... that kid they dropped off had coke and heroin in him. serious amounts. he's lucky he lived. so i gotta ask: what's your daughter on?
speaker1: i don't know what you mean.
speaker2: i mean, did you ask her? what kind of drugs has she tried?
speaker1: i... i don't really know.
speaker2: is she in any kind of therapy... professional help?
speaker1: no, of course not. she's one of the top students at her school.
speaker2: well, i hope it stays that way.

speaker1: you should see little montel play. 
speaker2: maradona is a cokehead. hand of my ass. we're wasting our time here.
speaker1: he won. he was a winner. that bothers you.
speaker2: winners don't do coke. or haven't you been reading the bumper stickers?
speaker1: what do we have here?

speaker1: david, come back here this minute. david! 
speaker1: david --
speaker2: we're playing!
speaker3: yeah, this is fun.
speaker1: please put down my son.
speaker3: shouldn't let your kid wander off with strangers.
speaker1: thank you. that's a valuable lesson. david, come on.
speaker3: mrs. ayala -- this gets her attention --
speaker3: your husband owes a lot of money. enough that snapping this kid's neck wouldn't nearly cover it.
speaker3: you better come up with it in a hurry or your kid is going to disappear, and he won't turn up until the evening news.
speaker3: you get exactly one warning.
speaker3: the first payment is three million dollars.
speaker4: are you getting this on tape?
speaker5: i love my job. i love it. the next time i'm having a bad day you gotta remind me of right now and i'll get over it.

speaker1: a group of us are going out tonight. 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: guzman, tomas, esteban --
speaker2: your new friends.
speaker1: yeah. it should be fun. you wanna come?
speaker2: not this time.

speaker1: in my home i have bandw speakers. i recently purchased a compact disc burner. i can make my own cd's, with whatever music i like, as if i bought them at the store, only i don't have to pay these crazy prices. 
speaker2: we have much in common. we both attended school in the united states, and both of our fathers are engineers.
speaker1: i got into stereo equipment when i was a kid. some people don't notice the difference but it is very important to me.
speaker2: of course it is. have some more wine.
speaker2: now, francisco, my friend... i must know where these men are who killed my captains. not where they were last week, but where they are today, and better still, tomorrow. you are clever. you can predict where they will be, can't you? francisco begins to weep.

speaker1: i can't go home. i don't want to go. please don't make me. 
speaker2: it's not our decision.
speaker1: i'll be killed.
speaker2: stop complaining. nobody knows what you've been up to.

speaker1: carlos, i mean carl, started out in the family connection business: real estate in tijuana, fishing boats out of ensenada, hydroponic raspberries. he met up with the obregon brothers of the tijuana cartel who were interested in two things: entering society and using his fishing boats. 
speaker2: so you pay off our customs officials?
speaker1: in mexico law enforcement is an entrepreneurial activity, this is not so true for the usa. using regression analysis we made a study of the customs lanes at the border and calculated the odds of a search. the odds are not high, and we found variables that reduce the odds. we hire drivers with nothing to lose. then we throw a lot of product at the problem. some get stopped. enough get through. it's not difficult.
speaker3: you'd think he wasn't sitting here facing life in prison.
speaker1: this has worked for years and it will continue to work for years. nafta makes everything more difficult for you. the border is disappearing. you people are like those japanese soldiers left behind on deserted islands who think that world war ii is still going on. let me be the first to tell you, your government surrendered this war a long time ago.
speaker2: this attitude's not gonna help him any, is it?
speaker1: i got greedy. i decided to bring a little in on my own and somebody tipped you off. that was my mistake. carl would never be so stupid.
speaker2: he hired you. that was a mistake.
speaker1: carl and i were friends from childhood. he was loyal, that's not a mistake.

speaker1: the busiest land border crossing in the world. over forty-one thousand vehicles per day, twenty-two thousand pedestrians on foot. i think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through. 
speaker2: any idea how much?
speaker1: i've read official estimates but i wouldn't bet my house on them. i've heard the entire cocaine supply for the united states can fit into four tractor-trailers. at least a half-dozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who don't give a if they're caught or not.
speaker2: what do you look for?
speaker1: we ask questions and measure the answers. when something doesn't ring true, a fact that doesn't make sense, a slight hesitation, then it's off to secondary for a closer look. before nafta we had about 1.9 million trucks a year. now it's almost double. pretty soon there'll be mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as american truck companies.
speaker2: any way we can do it better?
speaker1: sure. more money in intelligence on their side of the border. so we have a better idea who we're looking for. more dogs. more people. supposed to be getting some giant x- ray machines to run the trucks through. outside of martial law that's about the best you're gonna do. but, i should tell you, there are two things that really have us on edge right now. in the last six months seizures have tripled, even though we're pulling over the same number of cars. what does that tell you?
speaker2: that triple the amount of stuff is going through.
speaker1: right. but, that's not the biggest problem. one of our intel officers picked up information from dea that traffickers have come up with a process, a chemical process, to turn coke into something else. it doesn't smell like coke. it doesn't look like coke. and what's worse, it doesn't react to field test. it could be anything. maybe it's already happening. i mean, how would we know?

speaker1: okay. she's coming out. she's leaving her property. okay, she seems to be heading for the van! she is approaching the van! 
speaker2: what do we do?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: what do you think she wants?
speaker3: she's your girlfriend. open it, talk about your kids.
speaker4: i so hope i didn't startle you. i thought you might like some cold lemonade.
speaker2: uh... thank you.
speaker4: i know this is a difficult situation and you're only doing your jobs. i don't bear you any ill-will, but i do have a small favor to ask.
speaker3: you want to ask us a favor?
speaker4: a man threatened my children. these charges have attracted a lot of attention and it seems to be bringing all the nut-jobs out of the nut jar. would you keep an eye out for anything out of the ordinary. i don't know what else to do.
speaker2: of course, we will.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker3: it's probably poisoned.
speaker2: it's good. not too sweet.

speaker1: anna. what's wrong? what do you want? 
speaker2: i can't find manolo.
speaker1: he's not here.
speaker2: he never came home last night. was he with you?
speaker1: no.

speaker1: i'm worried. last time he was out late, i went through his clothes while he was asleep. 
speaker2: i'll find him.
speaker2: what the are you doing? you're supposed to be at work. look at you.
speaker3: it's no problem. i was just with everybody we work with.
speaker2: oh, really. general salazar was there?
speaker3: no, but a lot of other people. you should come. you should come out with us.
speaker2: go home. get cleaned up. get to work. salazar is heading down to mexico city next week and i'm not getting left behind. don't this up.

speaker1: you know my dad takes eight red cold pills every day? he and my mom have cocktail hour every night, from six to seven, set your clock, two bourbons -- 
speaker2: maybe we could show up and smoke a little rock with them to unwind --
speaker1: yeah, then some dope to take the edge off at the end of a long day.
speaker2: have you done your homework, honey?
speaker1: yes, mom --
speaker2: then here's a little bump.
speaker1: drugs weren't even a problem until a hundred years ago when the white men in power declared them a problem. opiates. but, who was using 'em? chinese immigrants. slave labor. and the darkies up in the inner cities dancing to them evil rhythms of ju- ju music. people on the fringe. artists. decadent rich people. and who got scared? white men in power. who's scared today? white men in power. if j.p. morgan and john d. rockefeller ever admitted using, it'd be a whole different story.
speaker3: what you want?
speaker1: 911, and the come down.
speaker3: how much?
speaker1: two hundred of c, hundred of the other.
speaker2: come on... we've been here before.
speaker3: then, let's see your money.
speaker3: up the steps. you the experts. you know what to do.

speaker1: what are you two, about twelve? 
speaker2: off.

speaker1: caroline, give me your money. 
speaker2: goodbye... caroline.
speaker1: yeah, right.

speaker1: we'd like room 205. 
speaker2: then you hand me twenty-eight dollars.

speaker1: i love this place. 
speaker1: did courtney love play nancy in syd and nancy?
speaker2: i think so. if she didn't she should have. i've only got maybe an hour. then volleyball practice is over and i have to be home.
speaker1: why? nobody's there.
speaker2: i wish we could stay here. just be here forever and ever. make it a little home.
speaker1: i want to have and do a hit right as we're coming.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: who are these guys? 
speaker2: agents who died in the field.

speaker1: that house, that you see from the dea headquarters, belonged to porfirio madrigal -- the lord of the skies, largest trafficker in mexico. 
speaker2: he died in a liposuction surgery, right?
speaker1: right. now it's used by somebody from the juarez cartel, one of his lieutenants... who knows? every day there's birthday party. at first i thought they must have three hundred children, then i realized they're taunting us. three miles away and we can't touch them. ha, ha, ha.
speaker2: who do we interface with on their side?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i mean, who runs interdiction on the mexico side?
speaker1: i don't know. i don't think there's any one person. see the problem is the juarez cartel owns everything and everybody, all the property on the mexican side, sometimes all the property on both sides. warehouses, transportation, even tunnels. it's very organized.

speaker1: i want everyone thinking out the box for a second. what are we gonna do about mexico? come on, guys. out of the box. 
speaker2: unlimited funds?
speaker1: unlimited.
speaker2: from a dea standpoint we need a vetted task force and matching funds. and cut the red tape on getting them equipment and training.
speaker1: come on. i want to hear from everyone: fbi. customs. treatment. is there anyone from treatment on this plane? then i want an answer for why there isn't anyone from treatment. look, we know we have to bust one of these cartels, juarez or tijuana, not just as a symbol, but yes, also as a symbol - they are symbols - and there's nothing wrong with sending a message. that's why when carlos ayala hired michael adler lead defense, i flew ben williams to san diego to prosecute. because he's the best we have, he's our symbol that we're serious about putting the top people away. so, as of right now, this flight only, consider the dam on new ideas thrown open.
speaker1: if i'm not mistaken, we got dea, pentagon, u.s. attorneys office, about a billion dollars of budget right here. so what are you people waiting for?

speaker1: on a clear day you can see mexico city. 
speaker1: this place is swept twice a day. i learned that in miami in '85. then the u.s. shut down the whole caribbean, but it's a big game of wack-a-mole. knock it down in miami, it pops up here. and san diego is so much more relaxing.
speaker2: arnie, i need money. somebody threatened my children. they want a first payment of three million dollars.
speaker1: helena, if i had it i would give it to you, but i don't have that kind of money.
speaker2: arnie, help me. doesn't anyone owe us money?
speaker1: yes, i told you before, there are people who owe you money but they're not paying. there's too much heat on carl.
speaker2: please. tell me who carl sells to.
speaker1: even if i knew i wouldn't tell you. you do not want to come into contact with these people. only carl knows who they are. that's his real asset. ruiz doesn't know them. they don't know ruiz. church and state.
speaker2: what about legitimate businesses? we own a construction concern, real estate --
speaker1: laundromats for the washing of money. unfortunately, carl had only one successful business.
speaker2: don't you have some good news? isn't there something positive you could say.
speaker2: sometimes i wonder what i'll do if carl doesn't get out. i'm not very adept at being on my own. i've always had a man in my life. always.
speaker1: i remember when i first met you: little helen watts from the wrong side of somewhere. i had a feeling even then that your survival instincts were pretty well honed.
speaker2: i'm glad you think so, but i'm picturing a debt-ridden, thirty-two year-old mother whose ex-husband is being compared to pablo escobar. and i'm wondering who would want to be with someone like that?

speaker1: you two don't like me, do you? 
speaker2: we don't have an opinion on you.
speaker1: maybe it's because i'm getting an apartment nicer than anything you'll ever see in your life?
speaker1: i can't believe the old man kept his promise.
speaker2: the general is a man of his word.
speaker1: they will say anything to get what they want, but then you remind them, it's always tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow. occupational hazard, i guess.
speaker1: his friend is giving us the apartment so it's not like he paid. it's more like a favor.

speaker1: you don't have the keys. oh that's perfect. are you an idiot? 
speaker2: there's supposed to be someone here to let you in.

speaker1: madrigal's alive. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: porfirio madrigal is not dead. i just saw him.
speaker2: this is why salazar is so interested in cleaning up tijuana. madrigal, who's supposed to be dead, owns him. and madrigal is making a move on juan obregon.
speaker1: javi! come on. don't pull this you don't care this is incredible information. it must be.
speaker2: we keep our mouths shut.

speaker1: i think we may have found our mexican drug czar. it's this general, salazar. at least i'll have somebody on the other side i can talk to. 
speaker2: does this mean you're going to be gone more?
speaker1: possibly.
speaker2: you might want to pencil in a little face-time with your daughter.
speaker1: barbara --
speaker2: because i'm at the edge of my capabilities, robert.
speaker1: the first thing we have to do is present a unified front.
speaker2: if you start in on the war metaphors i'm going to drive this car into a telephone pole.
speaker1: look, i'm as worried as you are --
speaker2: no, i don't think so. leave me alone, give me money. that's what i get from our daughter. she has a way of shutting me out that seems very familiar.
speaker1: yeah, well, she has a way of self- medicating that probably seems familiar, too.
speaker2: i'm not the one who has to have three scotches just to walk in the door and say hello.
speaker1: i have a drink before dinner to take the edge off my day. that's different.
speaker2: oh, it is?
speaker1: yeah, because the alternative is to be bored to death.

speaker1: one minute. 
speaker1: excuse me --
speaker2: you're not going anywhere, young lady. she stands there; she's very high.
speaker2: where is it? where are the drugs? where are they?
speaker1: you. i wasn't doing anything. you're like the gestapo.
speaker2: me? oh, okay. me. you.
speaker2: i'm going to ask you one time to tell me the truth so that i can help you.
speaker2: okay, young lady, that's it.
speaker1: like i give a
speaker2: what is wrong with you? what? you're going away. you're getting help somewhere.
speaker1: you can't make me.
speaker2: oh, yes i can.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: special agent hughes, drug enforcement administration of the united states.
speaker1: where are you taking me?
speaker3: somewhere safe.
speaker1: where?
speaker3: a place we have, that we know is protected.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: it's really safe.
speaker1: not for me.
speaker3: okay. where would you like to go?

speaker1: it's important that we work together. mexico. america. one hand washing the other. 
speaker2: we agree.
speaker1: so... maybe you tell me about your informants in our operations.
speaker2: we thought maybe you'd have that kind of information for us.
speaker1: this is a very different proposition.
speaker2: we pay for that kind of information.
speaker2: is that what you're talking about, javier?
speaker1: ten years ago tijuana had no drug problem. now it is epidemic. ten years ago america takes a hammer to pablo escobar, a hammer to the miami drug trade, and you allowed everything to move to my country. you dumped the problem at our feet. now, drug use is epidemic. now, the treatment centers are full and get no state money. they survive on donations and what they get for building doghouses to sell to the
speaker3: we need lights for the parks so kids can play at night. so they can play baseball. so it's safe. everybody likes parks. everybody likes baseball. what i'm talking about is i would like to see somebody take an interest in tijuana. that's what i'm talking about.
speaker4: javi, you want to come see us again, you're going on the box. no more of this water-wing

speaker1: you wanna tell me what the that was all about? 
speaker2: he's got something. we just have to be patient.

speaker1: how's david? 
speaker2: how's david? how's david? he's terrific, carl.
speaker1: helena --
speaker2: we watched his father get dragged away by federal agents. i don't even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you're coming back... or if you're coming back.
speaker1: we'll get through this, i promise. i'll make it up to you --
speaker2: how? supportive letters from prison while i'm being kicked out of our home? do you have any idea what is happening out here? our credit cards are maxed. the people at the bank, you should see their faces when i walk in there. i have a letter from the government telling me that anything i sell from our house will be taken against an income tax lien. our friends are behaving like the crowd at a public hanging. nobody will help us. nobody will take us in. nobody wants anything to do with us. so tell me, carl, how you're gonna make it up to me. tell me again how we'll get through this, and maybe while you're at it you can put your hand up against the glass so we can have a tender moment of connection.
speaker1: helena --
speaker2: tell me what to do, carl. i need guidance, not a platitude. i'm not bringing a child into the kind of life i grew up with. i won't do it. i want our life back.
speaker3: i built our house and i don't want to lose it. every stone, every brick, every board. my business... that would take a lot of private study... that you don't have time for. i suggest you look into the coronel... into selling it. if you can stomach it, you should look into it.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker3: look into the coronel; otherwise, there is nothing to do.

speaker1: so it was my birthday an my ex-wife was getting remarried and i was in some church basement telling a bunch of strangers how it was a good day because i didn't have to eat out of a dumpster. that was enough to send me out on big one. i've been thinking a lot about the first step: that i came to believe i was powerless over alcohol and that my life had become unmanageable. see my disease tells me i don't have a disease. that i'm fine. that it's my birthday and i can have one little drink, then one little line, then one little valium, then two more fat lines, then two more 10 mil valium... six months later i wake up in a sober living house in philly. and i'm from dallas, people. it's a disease -- an allergy of the body and an obsession of the mind. i know that now. so my name's marty and today i'm a grateful recovering alcoholic who didn't eat out of a dumpster. thanks. 
speaker2: hi. i'm caroline. i'm not sure i'm an alcoholic. i mean i don't really like to drink. for someone my age it's so much easier to get drugs than beer. i don't know, this is really weird and i'm really nervous...
speaker2: i guess i'm angry. i mean i think i'm really angry about a lot of stuff, but i don't know what exactly.

speaker1: tamayo. carrington. a simply wonderful collection of mexican modern. give me three months. i know several collectors in south america, very discreet. 
speaker2: i don't have three months.
speaker1: it takes time to find the proper collection.
speaker2: how much will you give me in cash? today.
speaker2: you must be joking. that's a fraction of their value.
speaker1: i'm sorry, but that is the figure i can get today.
speaker2: it's all right. we're have a disagreement, that's all. the art appraiser passes them on his way out.

speaker1: i recruited the best men in mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process. not only physical, but also psychological. 
speaker2: i'd like to bring you up to washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we've been able to develop on your cartels.
speaker1: that would be very helpful to me. also, i received the offer from dea and the fbi to train some of my men at quantico. i think this will be extremely useful, a good way for us to absorb some of your methods.
speaker1: i've been too busy to completely settle in.
speaker2: you've been making very good progress against the tijuana cartel.
speaker1: yes, i am confident that juan obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year. but, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force. we get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
speaker2: hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
speaker1: yes, i hope so as well.
speaker2: let me ask you a related question. we've talked about the supply side, but what about demand? what is your policy for treating addiction?
speaker1: addicts treat themselves... they overdose and then there's one less to worry about.

speaker1: this is ridiculous. why is there no elevator? 
speaker2: when the dea gets into the narcotics business, then we'll stay at the four seasons.

speaker1: eddie, how you like your new home? i hope you hate it as much as i do. 
speaker2: this is not what my lawyers negotiated.
speaker3: your lawyers. you aren't getting any cappuccino or biscotti either.

speaker1: i was the company secretary from 1991 to 1994. i supposedly worked for all six companies. but... they weren't... i mean, it was just one empty office with a desk and a telephone. we never sold anything the whole time i was there. sometimes people came and got paid. i don't really know what we did. 
speaker2: did mr. ayala say where the money came from?
speaker1: no, and i didn't ask.
speaker2: where do you think it came from?
speaker3: this speculation --
speaker2: i'll rephrase. did you feel like you were engaged in a legal enterprise?
speaker1: no, not really.

speaker1: who is this? 
speaker2: a friend... of carlos ayala.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i'm on a special phone, may i speak freely?
speaker1: you may speak.
speaker2: i have a job for you and i don't have much time.

speaker1: i love this place. don't turn around. 
speaker1: you were followed by the police, but they won't hear us over the children. i want to use a bomb.
speaker2: you're kidding. can't you shoot him or something?
speaker1: i don't really like guns. you shoot someone in the head three times and some doctor will keep them alive.
speaker2: when will you do it?
speaker1: i don't know. eduardo ruiz is the only real witness against carl. the security is very tight. there may not be a way.
speaker2: there's always a way. if people get to the pope or the president, you can get to him.
speaker1: careful... you're sounding like your husband, mrs. ayala.

speaker1: what? what is it? 
speaker2: it's very hard for me to come and tell you this.
speaker2: it's manolo. he's going to do something stupid. i'm worried that he'll get himself killed.
speaker2: he's saying he's going to talk to the americans. become an informer.
speaker1: why does he need money?
speaker2: he has debts. he has gambling debts. he owes a lot of money.
speaker1: how much?
speaker2: nine thousand dollars.
speaker1: what is he planning on telling them?
speaker2: well, you know, he's going to say about madrigal... and salazar.

speaker1: nobody saw her leave? yes... i understand. 
speaker1: i have to go. i have to go home.
speaker2: should we bring the police into this?
speaker1: no, not yet.

speaker1: sit in a coffee shop. 
speaker2: she's not at that place you sent her?
speaker3: she snuck away. and we haven't seen her. she hasn't come home.
speaker2: oh, man --
speaker3: she hasn't called you?
speaker2: i tried to talk to her when she was up there, but they wouldn't put me through. i'm surprised she hasn't called.

speaker1: what you want? rock? rock? hey, what you want? 
speaker2: in the coffee shop.
speaker3: can you tell me anything? do you have any ideas?
speaker4: i don't know what to say.
speaker3: i'm not the police. i don't care about experimentation. she's a kid.
speaker4: you won't say anything to my parents?
speaker3: i don't give a about your parents --
speaker4: we sometimes went downtown to score.
speaker3: what?
speaker4: the west end. we buy it off the streets. i can stop, you know, and she can't. two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then i get my together, and for her it's different --
speaker3: you don't know what the you're talking about. you're a cocky seventeen year-old and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. you don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away. and neither does she.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: what do you mean, what do i want?
speaker1: rock or dope, man?
speaker2: i don't want anything.

speaker1: hey man, i'm sorry. i'm just trying to help. 
speaker2: you want to help? stay the away from her.

speaker1: what the do you want? 
speaker1: you want some of that?
speaker1: what you gonna do to get some of that?
speaker2: please --
speaker1: what you gonna do?
speaker1: maybe a taste.
speaker1: feed this to you like a little bird.
speaker2: don't --
speaker1: you want this?
speaker1: this is the express train. baby turnin' pro and getting down in a big, big hole.
speaker1: kiss it. kiss your new mommy hello.

speaker1: your honor, it has come to our attention that your honor, while in private practice, previously represented the town of seal beach in their stop-work suit against the police department of seal beach. we believe this disqualifies you from hearing this case and we therefore move for a temporary suspension while this is investigated. 
speaker2: mr. adler, this is a most unusual motion.
speaker1: nonetheless, your honor, we feel that our client deserves every fairness afforded under the law.
speaker2: if this is in any way designed to delay the testimony of eduardo ruiz...
speaker2: we'll recess until 9:00 am monday morning. and i'll see counsel in chambers.

speaker1: remember when we sat on that mob guy, that chef, for like six months? 
speaker2: oh, man, i've never eaten so good in my life. why don't you develop a useful skill?
speaker1: yeah, like turning into a beautiful woman.
speaker3: would you mind if today we walked? it's one block. i could use the fresh air.

speaker1: they're going to walk right past me. 
speaker2: what are you? a mouse? get out of the car and do it. this is your chance.

speaker1: i saw this guy at the courthouse. the car -- gordon takes off running, yelling for castro. 
speaker1: no --

speaker1: manolo, how are you? 
speaker2: manolo, have we interrupted?
speaker3: no. i'm looking for the waiter. i want to order.
speaker1: what are you gonna have?
speaker3: a steak.
speaker1: well, if you like steak, we know a much better place. we'll take you there.
speaker3: that's okay, really.
speaker2: manolo, we should really be going now, before it gets too crowded.

speaker1: i was going to feed them wrong information. feed them lies to... it was for... 
speaker1: don't tell anna i died like this. tell her it was something else. tell her it was official business. tell her that i died doing something honorable. please, tell her that for me...

speaker1: turn around. 
speaker1: you got anything you want to say?
speaker1: sorry about that... we had to be sure.
speaker2: are you sure you don't have anything to tell us?

speaker1: that was a stupid thing you did. incredibly stupid. 
speaker2: i tried, arnie. and, i will continue to try.
speaker1: have you gone crazy? you are not carl. you aren't as good as carl. they are moving the trial to a high security location. the press has gone berserk. the jury will be influenced. stay out of things. let us try to win the case.
speaker2: that is going to be rather difficult when all the evidence is against us.
speaker1: helena, please. this is out of your hands.
speaker2: i know i made things worse. i know that and i'm sorry, but arnie i need something from you. something only you can help me with.
speaker1: helena --
speaker2: i need an introduction to the obregon brothers.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker2: i figured out what carl was up to and i need your help. will you help me?

speaker1: about the other night, i'm sorry. 
speaker2: me, too.
speaker1: i don't get it. are we supposed to say to ourselves, be prepared to lose her, be prepared to lose our child? why does this happen to someone? how does it happen?
speaker2: i don't know.

speaker1: mrs. ayala. thank you for coming. i am juan marquez, i work for mr. obregon. i believe you know my associate, "tigrillo," the little tiger. 
speaker2: yes, he threatened to kill my five year-old son. i was under the impression i would be meeting juan obregon.
speaker1: no, this is not possible. and i thank you for coming down here, though i suspect it's been a pointless journey.
speaker2: why do you say that, mr. marquez?
speaker1: i hear these stories. your husband in jail. his business in chaos. various people fighting over the scraps.
speaker2: my husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not ours.
speaker1: that is not true, mrs. ayala. your route is compromised. perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in california.
speaker2: i don't think you're going to do that.
speaker1: you don't? listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
speaker2: there are plenty of other suppliers in mexico.
speaker1: but not in whose interest it is to help you out of debt.
speaker2: my husband had been working on something he called, the project for the children. are you aware of this?
speaker1: i don't know. perhaps i remember something.
speaker2: we have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
speaker1: you want to smuggle narcotics in mr. espastico jacobo. that's nothing new.
speaker2: not in...
speaker2: this doll is cocaine.
speaker2: every part, from his ears to his accessory belt, is high-impact, pressure-molded cocaine. odorless. undetectable by dogs. undetectable by anyone.
speaker1: i don't believe you.
speaker2: get a bowl.

speaker1: try it. 
speaker2: you first.
speaker1: i'm six months pregnant. i won't do it.
speaker2: fine, then we don't have deal.
speaker1: fine, then we don't have a deal.
speaker2: okay, okay.
speaker2: that's good coke.
speaker1: it should be... it's yours. i want our debt forgiven. i want to be the exclusive distributor of obregon brothers cocaine for the united states. and i want the principle witness against my husband, eduardo ruiz, killed.
speaker2: perhaps... perhaps... i'm afraid i must first ask you to pass a test. i asked the same of your husband and he succeeded with flying colors.
speaker2: take this back with you. deliver it safely to tigrillo in san diego and we have a deal.
speaker1: that's crazy. my husband is on trial for smuggling.
speaker2: exactly, and this is how i know i'm not getting into business with the u.s. government.
speaker1: you will help me with my other problem.
speaker2: deliver that safely to tigrillo in san diego. and we have a deal.

speaker1: ...and i have the electronic serial numbers for their cellular phones. they change them every twenty-four hours but i have a contact at mextel who can get me the new esns within twelve. 
speaker2: that's good
speaker1: now that you have what you want, let's talk about how i get what i want.
speaker3: oh, don't worry, javier, you're not gonna have any problems there.
speaker2: i want to take a minute and talk about what type of precautions you're taking to protect yourself. when salazar and madrigal go down, they might send someone to see you.
speaker1: you worry about getting me the things that i want. i'll worry about myself.
speaker3: you should feel good about this.
speaker1: i feel like a traitor.

speaker1: please step from the car, ma'am. 
speaker2: i'm in a hurry --
speaker1: step from the car, ma'am. this won't take long from your day.

speaker1: ma'am, we have reason to believe you may have illegal drugs hidden beneath your clothing. i need to conduct a pat down search. supervisory inspector haig will witness the search. 
speaker2: you've got to be kidding me. i'm pregnant. what if i refuse?
speaker1: this pamphlet explains the law and your rights under it. you're welcome to read it first. it says we have the authority to conduct this search. would you like to read it first or shall we proceed?

speaker1: montel... oh, montel. 
speaker1: you know how much he cared about you. you do, don't you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i know if he could have it back somehow, he wouldn't do it differently or have it any other way. he wouldn't. he loved his job.
speaker3: excuse me, agent gordon. mrs. castro. helena ayala left club platinum in tijuana. the obregon brothers' place. they stopped her at the border but she was clean. she's in san diego now.

speaker1: did you get it? 
speaker2: what are you thinking, calling me at home with a message like that? you've compromised me and our relationship -- helena sits confidently on his couch.
speaker1: the place is swept twice a day. i learned that down in miami in '85... arnie. i'm the housewife. i belong to the most exclusive country club in la jolla that accepts latinos. until recently, i believed my husband imported hydroponic strawberries, which i donated at the school fair.
speaker1: it's the same stuff? from the rainy day stash?
speaker2: it's the same. what happened to what they gave you?
speaker1: i'm desperate, but i'm not stupid.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: i'm sorry... did i wake you?
speaker1: no, it's all right.
speaker2: salazar's been taken down. he was working for porfirio madrigal.
speaker1: what? i thought madrigal was dead. i thought it was verified.
speaker2: apparently not. look, it's a storm here right now. when are you coming back? i don't know what to tell people any more.
speaker1: i'll get there as soon as i can.
speaker2: if we're moving the press conference, we need to do it now. are you all right?
speaker3: robert.
speaker1: i have to call you back.

speaker1: my leica's gone. 
speaker2: so's the video camera.
speaker1: at least she's alive.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: she'll be at a shop in an hour.

speaker1: hey man, what are you doing? 
speaker2: excuse me? excuse me?
speaker3: seth has to be excused. he's going on a field trip.

speaker1: women's room, stall two. should we stop for ice-cream? 
speaker2: yeah!

speaker1: i don't know, maybe we missed her. 
speaker2: i can't believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
speaker1: hey man, back the up. to this place. what's that right now, all over this country, a hundred thousand white people from the suburbs are driving around downtown asking every black person they see, you got any drugs? you know where i can get drugs? what kind of effect you think this has on the psyche of a black person, on their possibilities? if you sent a hundred thousand black people into your neighborhood, indian hills, and they asked every white person they saw, hey, you got any drugs?, within a day, your friends and their kids would be selling. it's market forces, man. the product's marked up three hundred percent. you can go out on the street and make five hundred bucks in two hours and then do whatever you want for the rest of the day. you think white people would still be going to law school?
speaker2: you're starting to me off. get out of the car.

speaker1: you're gonna get me killed. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker3: i'm looking for my daughter, caroline. she comes here.
speaker2: this is a business. get the outta here.
speaker3: i need to find my daughter. i'll pay you.
speaker2: who the do you think you are? where the do you think you are? why the do you think i shouldn't just put you in a dumpster?
speaker3: i have money --
speaker2: i got money.
speaker3: i'll pay you a thousand dollars. i have it in my wallet.
speaker2: i want your money, i'll take your money.
speaker3: just tell me where she is.
speaker2: don't do that again.
speaker1: great. what a good idea.
speaker1: man, i'm telling you. don't do this vigilante thing. either the cops find her or she'll call you. i promise.

speaker1: anna. anna, please. let me in. 
speaker1: come on. you can't stay locked in your house all day.
speaker1: i know this is a tragedy, but you have to realize that good has come out of it.
speaker1: if manolo hadn't gone and told them what he did then salazar and madrigal would never have been brought to justice. he did a great thing for tijuana. he did a great thing for mexico.
speaker2: i want to believe you. i really do.
speaker1: you will believe me, because it's true.

speaker1: open the door. open the door, man. 
speaker2: go away!
speaker1: i know she's in there. let me talk to her.
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about. go away!
speaker1: i know she's in there.

speaker1: hey, i haven't touched her -- 
speaker2: hi, daddy.

speaker1: it's gonna be great... i mean, i'm okay and all, because, see, i met a guy, he's in this pretty famous band and... they've invited me to write lyrics for them, i'm gonna be able to do that and maybe sing, too... not at first, but later. 
speaker1: i've been doing research for the school paper, that's what i've been doing, like on assignment kind-of, i've seen some stuff you wouldn't believe, but i'm gonna write it all down into lyrics. they think i'm really good, everybody says so, what do you think?

speaker1: salazar and madrigal are no longer with us. a feat none of these people could get accomplished. 
speaker1: you're going to be made the special assistant to the new drug czar, which makes you a very valuable law enforcement officer. i hope you like to travel because we have plans for juarez and el paso, nogales, sinaloa, jalisco, michoacan...

speaker1: i'm really not sure. she seemed to recognize it wasn't serenity oaks. it's a pretty hard-core facility, but at least we know where she is. maybe it's what she needs now. 
speaker2: he holds the phone and doesn't say anything.

speaker1: big day. you're a star. 
speaker2: go shower. you smell.
speaker1: who is it?
speaker3: off.
speaker2: where's the love gone, eddie?
speaker3: you expect me to be grateful for spending the rest of my life looking over my shoulder.
speaker2: that thought makes me feel awful.
speaker3: can't you for a second imagine none of this had happened? that my drugs had gone through. what would have been the harm? a few people get high who are getting high anyway. your partner is still alive. we avoid having breakfast together. don't you see this means nothing? that your whole life is pointless?
speaker2: you're breaking my heart.
speaker3: the worst thing about you, monty, is you realize the futility of what you're doing and you do it anyway. i wish you could see how transparent you are. this food tastes like
speaker2: so go shower already.
speaker3: you only got to me because you were tipped off by the juarez cartel, who's trying to break into tijuana. you're helping them. you work for a drug dealer too, monty.
speaker2: it's like having another wife.
speaker2: who is it?
speaker4: breakfast.
speaker4: hurry up. it's getting cold.
speaker5: i'm on your side. you're jumpy.
speaker2: call an ambulance. hurry.
speaker2: call the ambulance. don't die on me. you will not die on me. do you hear me? don't you die on me.

speaker1: the cocaine brand, 911, is an east coast brand, a juarez cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into el paso? 
speaker2: i'm aware of that.
speaker1: so what's it doing in tijuana?
speaker1: let me ask you a hypothetical question: if salazar worked for madrigal and the juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the juarez cartel is losing influence?
speaker2: it could mean that, yes.
speaker1: that would probably mean the tijuana cartel is gaining power?
speaker2: it's possible.
speaker1: is it possible to have a drug czar in mexico who isn't connected in some war to one of the cartels?
speaker2: yeah, it's possible... if you're prepared to die.

speaker1: it's saturday, arnie. you work too hard. 
speaker2: carl, i'm running late. i'm coming right now --

speaker1: don't bother. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: so arnie, when were you going to tell me about the 3 million dollars we got in from san francisco two days after i got arrested?
speaker2: i was just waiting for the right time.
speaker1: and you didn't feel like you could trust my wife with this news?
speaker2: i just didn't want to take a chance. i didn't want to risk it. it could have been frozen along with everything else.
speaker1: you had it all figured out. you move into my house. you raise my kids. you sleep with my wife. it was a good plan, arnie.
speaker2: carl, that's insane.
speaker1: so my wife is lying?
speaker2: carl, think about it, if i was trying to rip you off, i would have left town after ruiz was killed. i wouldn't sit next to you in court listening to the dismissal.
speaker1: arnie, do think there's a difference between a reason and an excuse, because i don't think there is.
speaker2: carl --
speaker1: goodbye arnie.

speaker1: who was that? 
speaker2: arnie. he's not going to be able to make the barbecue.
speaker1: come downstairs. everyone is waiting.
speaker3: hello, helena. what a great party.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: nobody. i'm a nobody who arrested you, but your wife is a murderer.
speaker4: hey, you can't be in here.
speaker3: i'm a cop.
speaker4: i don't care.
speaker1: throw him out of here.
speaker3: you didn't win, helena. you lost everything. tell your children a nice bedtime story... how you killed my partner.

speaker1: ...a sterling reputation and close friend of the president, recently confirmed into the office of national drug control policy... our new drug czar, robert hudson wakefield. 
speaker2: the war on drugs is a war on our nation's most precious resource... our children. sixty-eight million children have been targeted by those who perpetrate this war and protecting those children must be priority number one. there has been progress and there have been failures, but where we have fallen short i see not a problem but an opportunity.
speaker2: an opportunity to correct the mistakes of the past while laying a solid foundation for the future. this takes not only new ideas, but perseverance. this takes not only resources, but courage. this takes not only government, but families.
speaker2: i've... i've outlined a ten-point plan, representing a new bilateral effort...
speaker2: i can't do this.

speaker1: on the good days i feel like i get it, like it all makes sense. i can stay in the moment. i don't have to control everything in the future. and i believe everything is going to work out fine. on the bad days, i just want to grab the phone and start dialing numbers. i want to pull my hair and run through the streets screaming. but, thanks to the people i've met in these rooms, people like margaret and jim and sarah, people who've taught me how to listen, i'm pretty sure i'll make it through today. 
speaker2: would you like to share?
speaker3: my name is robert. this is my wife, barbara. we're caroline's parents. we're just hear to listen.

