speaker1: edward rama? 
speaker2: eduardo. rama.
speaker1: you're home, then.
speaker1: my name's wilson.
speaker2: wilson?
speaker1: you wrote to me about my daughter.

speaker1: no reason. 
speaker2: i mean, what has it been -- six months?
speaker1: round about, yeah.
speaker2: i didn't even know who i was writing to -- just someone with the same last name. she never talked about any family.
speaker1: it was better than a telegram.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: snuffed her.
speaker2: now, wait up a second, man.
speaker2: i never said nothin' about nothin' like that. no, no, no. that's not what i wrote to you.
speaker1: no, but between the lines, eh? mysterious circumstances, and that.
speaker2: look, i sent you that newspaper clipping, all right? i told you what i know. it was an accident. i didn't say anything about anybody being "snuffed." beat.
speaker1: this bloke she was bunked up with. this terry what'sit.
speaker2: terry valentine.
speaker1: valentine. what's he got to say for himself?
speaker2: i dunno. what's he gonna say? they had a fight that night, she drove away, she was upset? i don't even know the guy. don't get me wrong, jenny and me were friends, but we didn't travel in the same social circles. she had her life, i had mine.
speaker2: valentine came into the restaurant where i work with jenny a couple times. he's a money guy. jenny would say, hey, here's my friend eddie and he would shake my hand and everything, but he wouldn't even see me, you know what i mean.
speaker1: how long had she been in the states? near on ten years, wasn't it? long enough to know her way about, i reckon.
speaker2: there was an investigation, okay? the car was totalled. jennifer was ... her neck was broken. on impact, they said. so she wouldn't have ... felt the effects of the fire. it happens up there. happens a lot. what more can i tell you.
speaker1: what more is there.
speaker2: i'm just sayin' -- it was a steep hillside. there was no moon that night ...
speaker2: coulda happened to anyone, man. i never knew her to be reckless. i mean, sure, she would smoke a little grass, or something, have a few drinks. but that's it, nothing more than that.
speaker1: no, not my girl. self-control, she had. point of pride. and people don't change, do they.
speaker2: i dunno ... maybe they do.
speaker1: going straight, are ya.
speaker2: boomerang.
speaker1: y'what?
speaker2: i knew when i was droppin' that letter into the mail slot it was gonna come back and smack me in the face. i did my time, okay? my sister, her ol' man's up in chino right now doin' eight years.
speaker1: this ain't your lot?
speaker2: you kiddin', man? i don't need a wife and screamin' kids. i still got my youth.
speaker2: i go to work, try to keep my life together, put all that behind me, man. what d'you want from me.
speaker1: i only asked.
speaker2: couple weeks before she died, jennifer asked me to drive her downtown. said she was meeting -- her boyfriend -- valentine. but i think she was looking for him.
speaker2: that's what i thought, man. but it was not a hotel or nothin' that we went to.
speaker1: where abouts?
speaker1: did jenny know?
speaker2: valentine wasn't even there. if he was into something, if she was involved -- who can say. but i'll tell you something. she stood in front of these dudes, man. eyeballing

speaker1: nah, coppers don't do nothing, do they. 
speaker2: those streets up in the hills, man. gotta be real careful, keep your eye on the ball. two o'clock in the morning, it's dark, your mind is all agitated, you're drivin' a little too fast ... those curves don't kid around.
speaker2: you should talk to elaine. that was her best friend.
speaker1: she didn't write to me, did she.
speaker2: she didn't know what to say. i thought someone should say something. to someone. with me it was, i don't know -- jenny liked me for some reason. i felt like i owed her.
speaker1: who'd jenny get it off of -- this grass or whatever?
speaker2: not me, man. i'm no drug dealer, what you think.
speaker1: i think you didn't get that lot in the navy, doing your national service.
speaker2: i already told you, man. corcoran. know what that is? state prison.
speaker1: nick's a nick, n' it? no matter what state you're in. state of remorse, most likely -- for gettin' caught.
speaker2: but that's not me anymore. that's when i was into the gang lifestyle. that's not who i am now. five years in the joint -- that's it for me, man. now wilson drops the clanger.
speaker1: just got out meself, didn't i. and ed turns. looks at wilson. fellow ex-con.

speaker1: i'll be needing a shooter. 
speaker2: you're kiddin' me, right?
speaker1: what do i do, then, look in the bleedin' yellow pages?
speaker2: these are not guys you can just go run a number on, man.
speaker2: are you a resident of california? you gonna fill out forms, man? do the background check? go through a three-day waiting period?
speaker1: sod that. gotta get back before my probation officer wonders where i've skived off to.
speaker2: probation? man, you crazy. they shouldn't've let you outta your country, much less prison.
speaker1: travelling on a dodgy passport, n' all.
speaker1: which is why i thought, save some time, get what i need under the table, like.
speaker2: as if resigned and mulling the problem over:
speaker2: under the table?

speaker1: attention: the long-range vermin- shooting panel is due to commence in two minutes in the blue room at the rear of the convention center. 
speaker2: at a booth selling laser attachments.
speaker3: beamsight ii is easily mountable on any shotgun, rifle, or sidearm and will project a small, bright red dot directly onto the point where your weapon is aimed ...

speaker1: a .45 passed from a dealer's hand to wilson's. 
speaker2: man knows what he likes.
speaker3: lookin' good.
speaker2: that's a high-end item. total reliability.
speaker3: what'd you call that -- the protector?
speaker2: yes, sir. won't find a better cqc on the market.
speaker3: cq what?
speaker2: close quarters combat. keep one in my own home.
speaker4: trouble is, i'm not at home, see. fancied a bit of target shooting, y'know, while i'm here -- with me mate.
speaker2: oh really? where you from?
speaker4: england. only, we saw there was a show on, thought i might pick something up for a price, type of thing.
speaker2: you came to the right place, sir. my wife's second cousin is english. well, scotch-irish. can i interest you in a holster?
speaker4: just luck, this, really. never been to one of these before.
speaker2: you're in gun country now, my friend.
speaker4: been to the boat show.
speaker2: packs a punch, but it's compact, has accessible features -- makes a nice concealed-carry piece.
speaker3: he don't have a concealed weapons permit.
speaker4: don't have time for a lot of paperwork, y'know. just popped over on a quick visit.
speaker2: i can take care of the paperwork.
speaker4: yeah?
speaker2: no problem. if
speaker3: not me, man.
speaker4: i mean, it's already a steal, n'it -- what you said -- four hundred for this one?
speaker5: well, i'll have to add another two hundred on top of that.
speaker4: oh, aye?
speaker2: ... for the paperwork.

speaker1: you hadda show up on a weekend. this weekend. wouldn't've even been a gun show ... for another month. 
speaker2: out of order, that. shouldn't be allowed. as he puts away a box of ammo.
speaker1: now what. you gonna take your new arsenal, go visit terry valentine, just like that? boom bam boom.
speaker2: it's only insurance. can't be too careful. this terry valentine, he's probably a wonderful fella. they were together how long?
speaker1: five years, i think. long time.
speaker2: well, there you are. jen must've liked him.
speaker1: jenny told me she met him at the beach. got blinded by his smile. you believe that son of a never smiled at me. buried her at a "private" service. private for who.
speaker2: hang about. i thought you said he come into the restaurant where you worked with jenny.
speaker1: he came in with jenny to the restaurant where i work. that's not where they met.
speaker2: and that's where you met jenny.
speaker1: no, no -- jenny used to work as a waitress. before she met him. but that's not where she met me. not in my restaurant.
speaker2: how'd the two of you hook up, then?
speaker1: oh, jenny was in my acting class.

speaker1: how'd you get in here. 
speaker2: walked.
speaker1: you walked. what the are you doing here.
speaker2: looking for a bloke named valentine. know him?
speaker1: he's expecting you?
speaker2: i doubt it.
speaker1: so why would he want to see you.
speaker2: i have a message for him. about jennifer wilson.
speaker1: jennifer wilson.
speaker2: you know her?
speaker1: yeah. i know her, all right. she came down here once, stirred up a shitstorm. we lost a full day's work, took me weeks to get back on schedule. if she hadn't a' been terry's woman i would've broke her jaw. 'course, she's nobody's problem now.
speaker2: is valentine here?
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: where is he, then?
speaker1: listen, get the out of here before you get hurt. who the do you think you are, waltzing in here, asking questions?
speaker1: do you hear me, asshole?
speaker1: you really want your kicked, don't you?
speaker1: go on, get outta here.
speaker1: nut. go on.

speaker1: not before. not 
speaker2: i used to hate it. now i like it.
speaker1: could be worse, he could've named you reticulum.

speaker1: is there anything in the world that you want or need? 
speaker2: i
speaker2: then what good is he?
speaker1: is it possible that you're too young to be acquainted with the idea of loyalty?
speaker2: is that a problem?
speaker1: not for you, clearly.
speaker2: i'm loyal to things that make me happy.
speaker1: am i a thing?
speaker2: well, you're certainly not a person.
speaker1: i'm not.
speaker2: no. you're not specific enough to be a person. you're more like a vibe.
speaker1: i'm so glad we're having this chat.
speaker2: it's not a knock.
speaker1: it's not a compliment.
speaker2: it's an observation. like: i'm hungry.
speaker1: as soon as you get dressed.
speaker2: what kind of food?
speaker1: anything but japanese.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i'm not into finger foods. too fussy.
speaker2: like you.
speaker1: i don't like do-it-yourself cuisine.
speaker2: you demand to be served. a fork fetishist.
speaker1: it's just fuel to me. i'm not there for distractions.
speaker2: for some, eating is a sensual experience.
speaker2: oh,
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: i'll be there as soon as i can. he hangs up. valentine we can leave as soon as you're ready.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: there's been some trouble downtown.
speaker1: what kind?
speaker3: what the papers used to call a "gangland slaying."
speaker1: our black friends?
speaker3: no, terry. they don't work like that. jenny wilson's father paid a little visit, left a message.
speaker1: i thought he was in prison, in england.
speaker3: well, either they have a very liberal work-release program, or he's out, because he's here in l.a., looking for you.
speaker1: what do we do?
speaker3: we wait, and we watch.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: italian.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: not who, food. should we get italian.
speaker1: sure. turns to her. valentine yes. are you ready?
speaker2: as long as i don't have to pass gordon again. i'm never ready for that.
speaker1: no. i know another way out.

speaker1: you're jenny's father. 
speaker2: had a feeling it was you.
speaker1: you look alike.
speaker2: perhaps it was the smoke.
speaker1: not her brand.
speaker2: she used to pinch 'em off me. funny that. one thing she never tried to get me to stop.
speaker1: why did you come here?
speaker2: wanted to talk to you, didn't i?
speaker1: no, why did you come here?
speaker2: sort a few things out.
speaker1: been busy, have you.
speaker2: how d'you mean?
speaker1: it's been a while.
speaker2: i was skint -- didn't have no money to get here.
speaker1: that's not what i heard.
speaker2: what was that, then?
speaker1: i heard you were -- what's that adorable phrase? -- "at her majesty's pleasure."
speaker2: it was the bars, then.
speaker1: in any case, i don't suppose the salary you make sewing mailbags is really commensurate with international airline travel.
speaker2: sewing mailbags? me? never did an honest day's work in my life, dear. wasn't about to start when i was in stir -- not with all that leisure time on my hands.
speaker1: and not with all that buried loot you had waiting for you when you got out. from the wembley staduim job, wasn't it? pink floyd concert receipts. jenny would've been ... fourteen at the time?
speaker2: hardly buried. earning interest, love. earning interest in an offshore account.
speaker1: well, that kind of security can't be bought. must be more comforting than a daughter to greet you.
speaker2: here, aren't you gonna let me in.
speaker1: try calling me again.

speaker1: sounds like beverly hills. 
speaker2: here, are you always this sarky?
speaker1: sarcastic, moi? maybe i'll mellow when my ship comes in. it's expected any day now. i'm all packed and ready to go.
speaker2: weren't you on a television series?
speaker1: if it played in england somebody owes me money. who told you that -- eddie?
speaker2: said it went on for donkey's years.
speaker1: three seasons. they found that's the limit of human tolerance when it comes to following the adventures of a family of mormons on the chisum trail. i was wife number three -- the ingenue.
speaker2: oh, it just ended, then.
speaker1: now who's being sarcastic?
speaker2: when you've lost as many years as i have, love, puts things in perspective, know what i mean.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i guess the rest of us have no excuse for wondering where the time went. it must've been the bars.
speaker1: it's a kind of prison, doing a series. early to bed, early to rise, no time off for good behavior, you grab the boodle for as long as it lasts. only difference is you can't get arrested afterwards.
speaker2: i can't believe jenny told you all that. about me. she was always so embarrassed.
speaker1: not embarrassed.
speaker2: ashamed.
speaker1: not ashamed.
speaker1: disappointed.
speaker2: she never told eddie, though.
speaker1: she never told anyone else. about the convict strain -- or is it stain? no, i was privileged. i was someone who helped jenny efface her past.
speaker2: how'd you manage that, then.
speaker1: when i'm not honing my craft in episodic television i do double-duty as a voice coach. not that her accent would have hobbled her progress. not with that look.
speaker2: yeah, well, she started all that in london.
speaker1: modelling.
speaker2: learnin' 'ow to speak proper. central school of speech and drama. it's no doddle gettin' in there, y'know. at seventeen. they offered her a place at rada n' all, only she'd've had to wait till the next session and she was always in hurry to get on, was jenny. she could talk posh without any training, when she was knee-high to a grasshopper. show up the old man, you know.
speaker1: you weren't disappointed in her, then.
speaker2: in jenny? 'course not. how could i be.
speaker1: she was twenty-one when she came to me. ... straight from leaving you.
speaker2: footloose and fancy free.
speaker1: she was happy here. however the two of you might have parted. don't think she wasn't.
speaker2: that's the trouble, n' it. she enjoyed life.

speaker1: yesterday. afternoon. 
speaker2: you haven't been lurking outside my building all day.
speaker1: no, i had -- some other matters to attend to, you know. getting a car sorted ...
speaker2: i might've been away for the weekend.
speaker1: well, i reckoned, saturday night, if you were goin' out, you'd probably have to come home first.
speaker2: and you've seen eddie rama.
speaker1: yeah, saw eddie, yeah. me and him are muckers.
speaker2: i should really give him a call. he's a character, isn't he. well, not to you. i meant to us squares in the outside world.
speaker1: he give me your address.
speaker2: i gave him yours. said, here, you want to write, i think this is a relative. i guess i thought i was being true to jenny. who told me she didn't have a father -- before proceeding of course to tell me why.
speaker1: well, don't suppose she did, really, most of her life. on her own after her mum died. aunts and uncles for a time -- and then the bright lights beckoned.
speaker2: were you still married at the time -- to jenny's mother, i mean?
speaker1: nah, we split up when jenny was six. her second husband done a runner after she got sick. they give me compassionate leave from parkhurst to go visit her in hospital. we were always mates, me and jenny's mum. i like to think they're together again now. y'know. heavenly choir. beat.
speaker2: the address jenny gave me, that wasn't a prison, was it?
speaker1: nah, accommodation address.
speaker2: what's that, like a p.o. box.
speaker1: something like that, yeah.
speaker2: where you get your bank statements.
speaker1: well, you gotta have something permanent, don'tcha. even if it's a hole in the wall. no matter which jug i might be transferred to, i always got someone on the out checks up on it for me, see. anything i need to know, comes round on visitor's day -- word in my ear. elaine pauses.
speaker2: some word.
speaker1: i already knew. knew beforehand. when was it supposed to have happened? -- two o'clock in the morning, eddie said.
speaker2: that's what was estimated.
speaker1: eight hours difference between here and london. would've been, what, ten in the morning, my time. i was just coming out on the yard. now, i was in the habit of saving my newspaper till then. bit of fresh air, stretch me legs -- well, stretch the day out, really, that's what you wanna do. and i'll tell ya: i couldn't open the paper. could not pry the pages apart -- it was like they was glued together. that's how weak my hands went. thought i was having heart attack, only i knew i wasn't. bloke come up to me, he says, dave, he says, you've gone all white. i said, me, i've been in prison half my life, what d'ya expect. but he was dead on, 'cause i could feel the blood drain right out of me head. and i knew ... something had happened to jen.

speaker1: there's nothing i can't afford to lose. she goes to make coffee. wilson looks around. 
speaker1: do you even know who terry valentine is?
speaker2: well, i gathered something from the article what eddie sent me. some sort of pop music producer, wasn't it.
speaker1: rock n' roll, is what we called it. he's sort of a forgotten figure now, but back when the west coast was the grooviest place on earth, terry valentine was where all the happenings happened. more of a kind of promoter, i guess, whatever that means. just took that whole southern california sixties zeitgeist and ran with it. packaged and sold it. made out like a bandit.
speaker1: lives high off the hog and waits for the next big thing. like me -- but on a grander scale of failure.
speaker2: now, you shouldn't run yourself down. my employer, mr. lindgren --
speaker1: -- your employer?
speaker2: -- mr. lindgren.
speaker1: who's mr. lindgren?
speaker2: my employer.
speaker1: what line is he in.
speaker2: proprietor of a london firm. of longstanding.
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: based in london, but with international concerns.
speaker1: i bet.
speaker2: various enterprises, style of thing.
speaker1: i thought you said you never did an honest day's work in your life.
speaker2: well, not to say mr. lindgren is dishonest, exactly.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: anyhow, he's always saying to me, dave, never run yourself down, son -- 'cause there'll always be plenty of people willing to do it for you.
speaker1: in what capacity are you employed by this mr. lindgren?
speaker2: this and that. y'know. ways and means.
speaker1: -- when he wants someone run down, you're willing to do it for him.
speaker1: so what's the deal. you and terry valentine at twenty paces. is that what this is about.
speaker2: why not.
speaker1: are you serious.
speaker2: have you ever known me not to be.
speaker1: you guys and your dicks.
speaker2: what'd you want me to do. stay at home, twiddlin' me thumbs. doing sweet f.a.
speaker1: you don't believe it was a car accident.
speaker2: what do you think.
speaker1: terry's never going to give you satisfaction. not the type.
speaker2: depends, don' it.
speaker1: on what. what makes you so certain.
speaker2: i'll well ask him.
speaker1: there's the phone. you want his number.
speaker2: that look again.
speaker2: i got his number.
speaker1: past caring.
speaker1: i'm not going to help you.
speaker2: sips coffee. bites into a cookie.

speaker1: gate's open. i had a butcher's at the house. 
speaker2: who'd you butcher at the house?
speaker1: butcher's hook. look. i don't much reckon those minders of his.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: he's brought in the heavy mob.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: extra muscle. bodyguards.
speaker2: has he?
speaker1: they look a right load of wallies. patrolling back and forth outside the gate, all ponced up like the household cavalry. watch it.
speaker2: that was one of them?
speaker1: see what i mean? wearing bloomin' uniforms n' all.
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker2: those aren't guards. they're valets.

speaker1: ed's still laughing. 
speaker2: valets. what d'ya mean valets. what is he, then, the earl of doncaster?

speaker1: yes, sir. 
speaker2: cheers.
speaker2: valets, eh? aren't we all la-de-da.
speaker3: i thought you just wanted to check out the house, man.
speaker2: well, that's what we're doin', n' it.
speaker3: no one else is even here yet.
speaker2: first in, first out, that's me.
speaker2: dubonnet with a twist? baby sham? tomato juice and tabasco sauce?
speaker3: got a coke?
speaker4: you have the same posters.
speaker5: hmm?

speaker1: that you have down at your office. 
speaker2: different ones.
speaker1: i like the colors.
speaker2: we all did.
speaker1: it must've been a time. a golden moment. beat.
speaker2: have you ever dreamed of a place ... you don't really recall ever having been to ... a place that probably doesn't even exist except in your imagination ... somewhere far away, half-remembered when you wake up ... but when you were there you spoke the language, you knew your way around ... that was the 60's.
speaker2: no, it wasn't. wasn't either.
speaker2: it was '66 ... early '67. that was all.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: hello? hey! great. you got my message? yeah. no, crestview terrace, not crestview place. yeah, there's like three different ways up the hill; the quick way is to bear to the right. sure. okay. okay. 'bye! 
speaker1: that's me.

speaker1: makes her way across the room to valentine. 
speaker1: hey, i thought you weren't a buffet person.
speaker2: i'm a gracious host.
speaker3: watching them, when --
speaker4: excuse me?
speaker4: don't you work with ian?
speaker3: ian?
speaker4: i could swear i met you with ian at the emi offices in london.
speaker3: sorry. wasn't me.
speaker4: you sure?
speaker3: unless i'm not who i think i am.
speaker4: that's too bad. ian's got a good thing going over there.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker4: turned that place completely around. 180 degrees.
speaker3: no kidding.
speaker4: what i like about ian, he believes in a chain of command, but not a chain of respect, you understand what i'm saying?
speaker3: right. chain of respect. that's good, that.
speaker4: yeah. i really admire the guy. well.
speaker3: yeah. cheers, mate.

speaker1: if you could afford a house like this you would buy a house like this. wilson edges forward to the rail again. 
speaker2: what are we standing on?
speaker1: faith.
speaker2: could you?
speaker2: why don't you go nick one of those little cooker what's its warming up the sausages cocktail and meet me in the garage. look about for a toolbox while you're at it. ed considers. his is not to reason why.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: hi. terry valentine.
speaker2: pleasure.
speaker3: have we met? there's something i can't quite --
speaker2: emi in london. i work with ian.
speaker3: ah.
speaker2: you must know ian.
speaker3: i don't.
speaker2: great bloke. really turned things around there. 180 degrees.
speaker3: i suppose that's good, unless things were fine the way they were.
speaker2: oh, i think a shake-up was in order. definitely. otherwise, people get lazy, don't they? forgetful. start thinking they can get away with things. gotta shake 'em up now and again, make 'em pay attention.
speaker4: terry, terry ...
speaker2: glad i got to meet you.
speaker4: ter ... ter ... you gotta ...
speaker3: thanks. you, too.
speaker2: be seein' you.
speaker4: charles grodin is here.

speaker1: toolbox? 
speaker1: put the sterno on the ground, near the center of the garage.

speaker1: you goin' back inside? 
speaker2: one thing i need.

speaker1: there is smoke coming from under the door. 
speaker2: you steady on, man. what the else did you do back there.
speaker3: car makes it around on two side wheels.
speaker4: gulps.
speaker4: hell.
speaker5: in his car, takes a different turn.

speaker1: that would be too easy. 
speaker2: too easy?
speaker1: he's gotta know why.
speaker2: you think a guy like that ever will? what more do you want, man?

speaker1: calls frantically to wilson from their car. 
speaker1: c'mon, man! c'mon!

speaker1: why, because you're my security consultant? this nearly burnt my house down. 
speaker2: what did you tell them.
speaker1: i told them a long-time employee flipped out. had a drug problem, refused counselling. set the garage on fire, then committed suicide. one of my "guests" tried to stop him --
speaker2: heavier than that now. but are there any drugs in that stomach to back up your story.
speaker1: as it happens. i didn't make that part up.
speaker2: and where is this guest? don't they want to interview him.
speaker1: i don't know everyone here. he was so traumatized he split. maybe he was gordon's
speaker1: no. i mean. not even your people should be involved. right? it's too close now.
speaker2: you could use a few of my prime shitkickers up here.
speaker1: you think i'm staying?
speaker2: there's already gonna be talk about how people close to you keep falling into canyons.
speaker1: well, can we make it one more. nowhere the near me.
speaker2: i have other resources.

speaker1: makes contact. 
speaker1: stacy.
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: come over here.
speaker3: at the bar. keeping his eye on them.
speaker1: speaks softly. alone with stacy.
speaker1: how they goin', kid?
speaker2: not bad.
speaker1: how'd you like to kill someone for me?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: same as last time -- the rest after.
speaker2: where do we go?
speaker1: when you find the guy, you'll know.
speaker2: what is this. i just do it. i don't prepare it.
speaker1: i'll point you in the right direction, but you'll have to take it to the end- zone. he's a hit-and-run gunman -- i figure he's not cruising the polo lounge.
speaker2: this is un-fucking professional.
speaker1: see, a successful man like me has limitations -- i lose touch at a street level. so i have to depend on a smart boy like you who's closer to the nitty and the gritty than i am.
speaker2: you, mr. whatever-your-name is.
speaker1: that's why i'm letting you take care of this. i'm the one with appearances to maintain. but who gives a about you? not even

speaker1: jenny was supposed to come to my place that night. she called me, asked if she could come over. she and terry had been -- having some trouble. lately. i don't know about what. on this occasion, it reached some sort of crisis point. 
speaker2: she told you all about my details but not about his. lovely.
speaker1: she'd never called me like that before. she sounded more ... off -- angry -- than upset or afraid. but she never turned up. i called the house but only got the answer machine. when they found her ... she'd been going the wrong way. not the direction she'd have gone if she'd been coming to see me. or coming
speaker1: you think terry gave me access to her things? probably sold her clothes.
speaker2: and how did you get it?

speaker1: five thousand. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: i got half.
speaker2: makin' trouble for someone?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: which kind?
speaker1: the forever kind.

speaker1: this town's been chewing my flesh since ... what we now refer to as "the early 70's." christ, my past became nostalgia and no one even asked me. 
speaker2: early 70's. i was away. maidstone. possibly brixton.
speaker1: these more highlights from the zagat prison guide?
speaker2: you don't seem bothered.
speaker1: you don't know how i've compromised my standards.
speaker2: tell us about it.
speaker1: it's too involved; a lifetime of non- involvement. anywhere else i'd be an interesting little number, here i'm just sag number forty-eight thousand and one. sag meaning screen actor's guild.
speaker2: oh, i was gonna say ...
speaker1: still, there have been rewards. it's sunny. and some of the producers who call even have credits.
speaker2: i can see the attraction.
speaker1: what did you do? to make them take the early 70's away from you.
speaker2: a jeweller's up the west end. we tunnelled our way under the shop floor from the public lavatory down the road. filthy work. trouble was, the thing collapsed --

speaker1: we were 
speaker1: hey?
speaker2: from pursuing your chosen profession.
speaker1: i'll tell ya something: it made me a model prisoner. put me right off any escape attempts. tunnel my way to freedom after that experience? not likely.
speaker2: i was inside once. i punched a cop at a demo.
speaker1: did you. what was that in aid of?
speaker2: who remembers.
speaker1: get seven years, did you?
speaker2: overnight. what about just now?
speaker1: just now? overnight?
speaker2: you
speaker2: i don't believe it.
speaker1: honest. didn't know where to look till i was 21.
speaker2: pushing the legal limit even then.
speaker1: me mate introduced me to a woman up the street. funnily enough, she was married to a milkman. straight up. i said, "good is she? been around?" he said, "

speaker1: all your life. that happened while i swam the length of my pool. 
speaker1: what's the matter?
speaker2: nothing. i guess it's hard to pass on this road.
speaker1: the freeway's faster, but lacks a certain majesty.
speaker2: just feels like the car behind has been following us the longest time.
speaker1: i sure hope so.

speaker1: ever take a look at the women who work in pet stores? wow. 
speaker1: good luck.
speaker1: are you gay enough or what.
speaker1: very attractive. good idea. now i
speaker1: kinda makes you wonder why more people don't put a bullet through their skulls, doesn't it.
speaker1: looks like they just airbrushed the out of his mouth.
speaker1: why don't they have tv shows about people whose daily lives you'd be interested in watching. y'know. like skinny little weakling. or big fat guy. sick old man.
speaker1: two blacks and a mexican in a car. who's driving?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: the l.a.p.d.
speaker1: oh yeah, keep doing that. that's really healthy.
speaker1: can't you do something about your ass?
speaker1: other people's lives scare the out of me.
speaker1: "homeless" people. them. remember when they were just bums? everyone with an axe to grind. like to grind in their face. pretty soon there'll be shit-in- your-pants rights groups. stupidity activists.
speaker1: wonder what it's like being a guy in a suit trying to cross the street.
speaker1: life sure is a minefield.
speaker1: look at that one. she's really been used.
speaker1: i'd love to be famous so i could snub ordinary people. imagine, you're famous, you're sitting in a restaurant, some fool comes up to you, wants you to sign your name on his napkin, his wife is there, it would be something these poor saps would cherish the rest of their lives, talk about to their cretin friends. bam! you tell 'em to off! i'd love that.
speaker2: is that her? i bet that's her.

speaker1: avery said she was tight with his daughter. 
speaker2: that don't mean nothin'.
speaker2: she's nice lookin'.
speaker1: so what.
speaker2: i dunno. i just said she's nice lookin'.
speaker1: and i said so what. you think she's any happier?
speaker2: what d'you mean, any happier?
speaker1: any happier than any other in life.
speaker2: i dunno. i never met her.

speaker1: you ever been to london? 
speaker2: only in the movies.
speaker1: i've 'ardly ever left it.
speaker2: yeah, well, you're here now -- -- where
speaker2: stick with me, kid. looks big when you get here but you can cover it in five minutes. beat. elaine so, is there anybody in your family who's not a criminal?
speaker1: not that i recall.
speaker2: what about your grandmother?
speaker1: nah -- she was married to me grandad -- he was as bent as a boomerang -- used to make knuckle-dusters down the shop.
speaker2: he alive to see this?
speaker1: dropped dead in the stalls in the odeon, muswell hill. watching doris day.
speaker2: what'd your father do?
speaker1: black market during the war.
speaker2: i guess you're just habitual.
speaker1: you sound like my probation officer.
speaker2: won't he be looking for you about now?
speaker1: good luck to him. he couldn't find his if he didn't wear y-fronts.
speaker2: minor officials bother you, don't they?
speaker1: do us a favor. can't even go have a slash without 'em saying, what're you going in there for?

speaker1: i got a steady income -- i'm on the dole. 
speaker2: a leech on the welfare state in addition.
speaker1: i fiddle it. they got me down as an immigrant with five kids.
speaker2: yeah ... jenny spoke fondly of her imaginary siblings.
speaker1: last time might as well've been the first. i remember all the times, don't i. watching her grow up -- in increments.
speaker2: she told me you were a ghost in her life. daddy the friendly ghost. coming back to haunt her.
speaker1: well, she twigged by the time she was eight or nine that daddy wasn't in the royal marines or doing scientific research in the jungles of borneo or playing iago in a worldwide tour of

speaker1: still, you could never ... do what she wanted. 
speaker2: she used to tell me she'd turn me in. little kid. ten year old. "if you're naughty, dad, i'll tell on ya." she didn't want me sent down again, see. when i was planning some job. "i'll tell 'em, dad, i promise i will. here, look, i'm calling the old bill right now" -- picking up the telephone. i can see her, the phone in her hand. became a sort of joke between us. only it wasn't a joke.
speaker1: she never would have turned you in, not in a million years.
speaker2: i know that. but as time went on ...

speaker1: there's one thing i don't understand. the thing i don't understand ... is every thing you're saying. 
speaker2: look, mush, you're the guv'nor here, i can see that, i'm on your manor now, right. so there's no need to get out of your pram. i'm johnny-come-lately to all this. whatever the between you and this slag valentine, it's got nothing to do with me. i don't wanna know.
speaker1: well, i'll tell you. i believe this valentine screwed me out of a fair sum of money.
speaker2: i can well believe it. i'm sure he has done, son. he's about as straight as a dog's hind leg.
speaker1: but i can't be sure. i don't even know who he is. he's too insulated. too many layers around him.
speaker2: your guess is as good as mine, mate. i'm here on another matter entirely.
speaker1: yeah, i guess you are.
speaker2: good job your lot showed up when they did or it would've been
speaker2: yeah. shouldn't wonder. must've done.
speaker1: so what's your beef, pal?
speaker2: nothing financial. strictly personal. i can see how all this import-export malarkey might give rise to confusion where i'm concerned. a foreigner, showing up unexpectedly, like.
speaker1: it was you. downtown.
speaker2: eh?
speaker1: because that wasn't anything to do with me. and suspicion has been cast in my direction. didn't make any sense. choosing those shitheads over me, cutting me out of the deal, then them over too.
speaker2: no, i can reassure you on that point. valentine was just as surprised by that turn of events as you.
speaker1: he'd already grabbed more than his allotted cut. didn't think he'd be so bold as to take all of it.
speaker2: all of what?
speaker1: of the deal, man.
speaker2: oh, yeah, right. the deal.
speaker1: but if you're mad at him too and he's mad at you ... that must make us pals.
speaker2: as you prefer, squire. as you prefer.
speaker1: in which case i'll just do what i usually do.
speaker2: and that is?
speaker1: what am i doing?
speaker2: looking the other way. gotcha.

speaker1: lemme break. 
speaker2: you broke last time.
speaker3: let him break - he likes to break.
speaker2: you.
speaker3: i wouldn't talk.
speaker2: huh?
speaker3: i saw your mother on the strip last night. she went up to three guys, said she'd like 'em to stick one in each, know what i mean?
speaker4: stacy.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: breaks.

speaker1: my client has already given a statement regarding yesterday's events. 
speaker2: a
speaker2: your client have a deal in long beach? how about downtown? there's some folks there -- oh, wait, they're all dead. any of this ring a bell?
speaker1: my client is an entrepreneur. i am his lawyer, not his business manager.
speaker2: so you wouldn't have any idea how your client continues to make so much money.
speaker1: he's always been very forward-thinking.
speaker2: where is he now?
speaker1: he had urgent business in the north.

speaker1: up the coast. 
speaker2: how far?
speaker1: i don't know -- few hours, i guess.
speaker2: fancy it?
speaker1: i could use a vacation. of course, i keep forgetting, for you this
speaker1: what's in big sur?
speaker2: that's where valentine's scarpered.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker2: bloke told me. beat. wilson you shouldn't go back to your place. not till ... this is resolved.
speaker1: i hear it's a nice drive.

speaker1: not much -- you? 
speaker2: same.
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: last time i saw you, weren't you up for some equity-waiver thing?
speaker1: probably.
speaker2: i was gonna be in that michael mann movie, you know -- with pacino and deniro. got three callbacks.
speaker1: really.
speaker2: didn't get it.
speaker1: well, those are the breaks.
speaker2: not no more, they ain't. i quit that acting man.
speaker1: you just cooking then?
speaker2: hell, no. i started writing.

speaker1: there's more than a measly few grand in this. 
speaker2: there is?
speaker1: something's on.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i happen to know more about mr. whatever- his-name-is than he thinks i know about him and his operation.
speaker2: you do?
speaker1: you bet.
speaker2: like what.
speaker1: like he'd never hire me for real. not week-to-week. i don't have the credentials. he thinks i'm just a sociopath, someone he can turn to when he needs "plausible denial."
speaker2: well, we blew it, didn't we? he ain't wrong.
speaker1: "he ain't wrong." listen, i know this who
speaker1: i don't know who that english guy is. some kind of -- -- courier or something. maybe a seller.
speaker1: drugs? cash? both if we're lucky.
speaker2: how we gonna get that lucky?
speaker1: while they're all each other over ... couple of parties like us could move right in.

speaker1: again? 
speaker2: do you have any friends, man?
speaker1: yeah, i suppose. call 'em that, yeah. down the boozer saturday night. meet some of the lads.
speaker3: friends and
speaker3: poor baby.
speaker1: useless gits. i was gonna do the post office once.
speaker2: what post office?
speaker1: the lot. the whole british post office. i had a brilliant plan -- all worked out -- work of genius, it was. could i get anybody interested? no -- they're too busy pinching orange squash from the milkman. lazy sods. jumble sale on in watford, they'll be up at the crack of dawn.
speaker3: you're just on a higher plane, wilson.
speaker1: too bleeding true, 'n' it.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: exercising my visitation rights.
speaker1: since when?
speaker2: i miss my kids.
speaker1: they're at college. or doesn't your accountant even tell you where the money goes anymore.
speaker1: i don't want you here, terry.
speaker2: sure you do.
speaker1: what kind of trouble are you in?
speaker2: no trouble.
speaker1: surely you can think of somewhere else to take one of your chippies for a quick getaway.
speaker2: susan.
speaker1: what have you done?
speaker3: we weren't followed. susan.
speaker2: where's ... what's-his-name -- fred --
speaker1: -- you know his name is frank.
speaker2: is he here?
speaker1: you know i don't live with him.
speaker2: go to him. go to his studio, or writers workshop or artists colony, esselin retreat, nudist camp --
speaker1: are you finished?
speaker2: in a couple of days this whole thing --
speaker1: who's looking for you?
speaker2: go now.
speaker1: it's been five minutes and i'm packing to leave again. i can't believe this.
speaker2: that's right, your life is and i'm to blame. it's that simple. that does it. susan turns on him.
speaker1: it

speaker1: hey, elaine. you even know what he's saying half the time? 
speaker2: no, but i know what he means.

speaker1: hard to miss. 
speaker2: i thought maybe you just came for the ride.
speaker1: i'd rather be with him than without him. i don't want to be found dead in l.a.

speaker1: his brow furrows. 
speaker2: notices this, looks out toward the backyard.
speaker3: same as before, except larry isn't there.

speaker1: turn all the lights out. i'll get adhara. tom begins looking for the light switches. 
speaker2: what's happening?
speaker1: stay away from the windows.
speaker1: i need you to come with me.
speaker3: why, what --
speaker1: please.
speaker3: okay.

speaker1: everybody in the kitchen. 
speaker1: behind the counter.
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker3: we think someone is here.
speaker2: we think?
speaker3: we can't find ... ... two of our guys.
speaker4: larry and rick.
speaker2: did somebody call the cops?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: why not?
speaker3: because --
speaker1: because i'm taking care of it.
speaker2: you guys are nuts, i'm calling -- she starts to stand. valentine pulls her down.
speaker2: hey.
speaker4: mr. avery.

speaker1: locked on him, waiting. 
speaker2: puts adhara's hand to her ears.
speaker3: we see a little more now than we have before.

speaker1: hit. spinning and collapsing to the ground. 
speaker2: lowers his gun. turns to tom.
speaker2: watch my back.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: avery's down.
speaker3: a piece of uncle john's silhouette appears.
speaker2: fires at it. didn't hit anything.
speaker2: this.

speaker1: looks over the edge of the porch. 
speaker2: tom turning toward the steps.
speaker1: fires at him.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: valentine runs to the sliding door, smack into:

speaker1: bounces off the couch and onto the floor. 
speaker2: comes toward him.

speaker1: now stands before him. 
speaker2: both breathing hard.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker3: what.
speaker1: tell me.
speaker3: tell you ...
speaker1: about jenny. tell me about jenny. about the
speaker3: she could've had the deal! i would've handed it to her if she wanted. i would have given her everything.

speaker1: she said, "you go ahead with this, i'll turn you in, terry." 
speaker1: she was serious. she would have done it. she had the phone in her hand. she was going to do it.

speaker1: yeah, that's right. 
speaker2: i can never decide what i like better.
speaker1: takes this in.
speaker2: you're a reluctant traveller, then.

speaker1: yeah. another little matter needs attending to soon as i return. 
speaker2: no rest for the wicked.
speaker2: where else?
speaker1: out on a oil rig. in the north sea.
speaker2: nine years? is that legal?
speaker1: well, time off for good behavior, you know. i shouldn't have even been there -- it was these other blokes who shoulda gone in my place. i got lumbered with the job they were responsible for. i don't mind pulling me own cart, but not someone else's, know what i mean.
speaker2: but you stuck it out, anyway, all that time.
speaker1: i had to, didn't i. nothing else for it. then just when i'd finished my nine years -- my contract -- wallop, i had to off to the states.
speaker2: sounds like you need a rest.
speaker1: could do, yeah.
speaker1: but first i gotta give these lads a talking to, these geezers what sent me up the river, in a manner of speaking.
speaker2: the ones whose burden you took upon your own shoulders.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker1: them next.

