speaker1: ted, will you take it easy? revlon's not about to drop an account that represents more than two million in gross billing receipts in a small agency like this, without making us sweat. now just relax, okay? everything's gonna be fine. 
speaker2: i don't think so, jim. maybe i shouldn't have â–

speaker1: i love you, billy... 
speaker2: i love you too, mommy... good-night...

speaker1: sleep tight... 
speaker2: don't let the bedbugs bite...

speaker1: here's to ted kramer. 
speaker1: i wanna tell you something about this little runt. he went out there and sold the out of revlon and that's why we got the account. it was his idea, it was his concept, right down the line...
speaker2: all i can say... all i can say is this is maybe one of the five best days of my whole life...

speaker1: so anyway jim and i are making the pitch, right? and all of a sudden this old guy starts to cough and i keep on going and he keeps on coughing and i keep on going and he keeps on coughing and â– murray fisher leans over, shakes ted's hand. 
speaker2: congratulations, ted. that was a of a job.
speaker1: where you goin' murray, it's early?
speaker2: got to get home.
speaker1: oh, christ, i'm late... i gotta get out of here. so anyway, i look over and this old geezer is starting to turn blue and i swear to the only thing i can think about is that this poor is gonna die on me and screw up the pitch.

speaker1: hey, what's the rush? c'mon, walk me a couple of blocks. 
speaker2: jim, i've got to go. i'm already late â–
speaker1: listen, ted... i just want to tell you, when old man schmidt retires next year, i've got a pretty good feeling they'll kick me upstairs...
speaker1: ...and when they do, i just want you to know i'm takin' you along with me.

speaker1: y'know, ted, i mean what i said back there. you did a of a job on this and i want you to know i'm turning the whole show over to you. 
speaker2: wow!
speaker1: i mean it ted, you're running this one.

speaker1: ted, i'm leaving you. 
speaker2: that represents a gross billing in excess of two million â– what?!
speaker1: here are my keys. i won't be needing them any more.
speaker2: i'm sorry i'm late, all right? i'm sorry i didn't call â– i was busy making a living.

speaker1: my american express... my bloomingdale's credit card... my check book â– 
speaker2: okay, okay... what is it this time? what did i do now?...
speaker1: i took two thousand out of the savings account. that was what i had in the bank when we got married.
speaker2: joanna, whatever it is, believe me, i'm sorry.
speaker1: here are the slips for the laundry and the cleaning. they'll be ready on saturday.
speaker2: now listen, before you do something you'll really regret you'd better stop and think -
speaker1: i've paid the rent, the con-ed and the phone bill, so you don't have to worry about them. she checks off the last item on her list as her husband watches, dumbfounded.
speaker1: there, that's everything.
speaker2: for sake, joanna, would you at least tell me what i did that's so terrible! would you do me that little favor?
speaker1: look, it's not your fault, okay? it's me. it's my fault â– you just married the wrong person.
speaker2: so we've got problems. everybody's got problems â– that's normal â– joanna opens the door and they step out into the hallway.

speaker1: ted, you're not listening to me. it's over, finished. 
speaker2: i'm listening, joanna â– believe me, i'm listening. my wife is walking out on me after eight years of â–
speaker1: you just don't get it, do you? i â– am â– really â– and â– truly â– leaving â– you.
speaker2: i heard you, joanna. i promise i heard you.
speaker1: no you didn't. you didn't even ask about billy.
speaker2: what about billy?
speaker1: i'm not taking him with me.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: ted, i can't... i tried... i really tried but... i just can't hack it anymore...
speaker2: c'mon, joanna, you don't mean that. you're a terrific mother â–
speaker1: i am not! i'm a terrible mother! i'm an awful mother. i yell at him all the time. i have no patience. no... no. he's better off without me. ted, i've got to go... i've got to go.
speaker2: okay, i understand and i promise i won't try and stop you, but you can't just go... look, come inside and talk... just for a few minutes.
speaker1: no!... please... please don't make me stay... i swear... if you do, sooner or later... maybe tomorrow, maybe next week... maybe a year from now... i'll go right out the window.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: i don't know... the elevator door opens, joanna steps inside.
speaker1: do you want me to help you get a cab?

speaker1: huh... hello? 
speaker2: all right, thelma... that's it. i've had it. you can call your good friend joanna kramer and tell her enough is enough, okay? i mean, i don't know what i did, but you can tell her she's made her point.
speaker1: ted, what are you talking about?!
speaker2: don't play innocent with me, thelma. you know perfectly well what's going on.
speaker1: ted, i don't understand a word you're saying. where's joanna?
speaker2: ha! you tell me.

speaker1: all right, thelma, you want to know what's going on? i'll tell you what's going on. i'll tell you exactly what's going on. 
speaker2: look, ted, all i â–
speaker1: i came home tonight. we just got the fire and ice account at the agency. do you know what that means?! do you understand what that means? it means that it was maybe one of the five best days in my whole life.
speaker2: ted, all i wanted to know was where

speaker1: i walk in the house and before i can say "how are you?", "did you have a nice day?" before i can say anything. pow she's out the door. 
speaker2: ohmygod. didn't she say anything? she must've said something.
speaker1: yeah, she said it wasn't any use talking anymore.
speaker2: ted, don't be so hostile.
speaker1: hostile? me? thelma, i'm not hostile. i am anything but hostile. but if you want to know what i am. i'll tell you what i am. what i am is, i am hurt. i am very hurt. and i just want to know one thing, okay? just one thing... why? that's all i want to know... why?
speaker2: ted, joanna and i used to talk a lot and... well, she told me a lot of... ah, things about the two of you.
speaker1: things? what kind of things?
speaker2: i mean... things. ted, joanna's very unhappy and â–
speaker1: listen, joanna kramer's got a good life. she's got a husband that loves her. she's got a terrific kid. she's got a wonderful home â–
speaker2: what d'you know about how joanna felt? you went off to an office every morning and you'd come dragging home at seven or eight every night and as long as dinner was on the table you thought everything was swell.
speaker1: did it ever occur to you guys that joanna kramer's not the easiest person in the world to live with?! did it?! for one thing she's always thirty minutes late. you can set your watch by it â–
speaker2: so she's late. what's the big deal. that's just a way of saying, "pay attention to me."
speaker1: two. she is getting to be a real hermit or recluse or whatever it is you call it. thelma, do you know where i could be in this business if i had a wife that entertained or went out socially â–
speaker2: oh for shit's sake, ted, you are the most selfish human being i have ever met. no wonder she said you came first, then billy, then, if there was anything left over, she got the scraps.
speaker1: joanna said that?
speaker1: then how come she never said anything like that to me?
speaker2: maybe she didn't feel like she should have to. maybe she felt like if you'd been paying any real attention to her to start with, maybe you would've noticed.
speaker1: boy, you guys are really something, y'know? i'd like to know one thing, okay â– just one little thing. did you tell joanna she should leave me?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: y'know something thelma â– you are the typhoid mary of divorce. i mean it. joanna and i never had any trouble until you and charley split up.
speaker2: ted, divorce is a terrible thing. i know, i went through it. you've got to believe i did everything i could to get joanna to stay. but i'll tell you something. you may not want to hear it, but it took a lot of courage for joanna to do what she just did.
speaker1: i'd like to know what the kind of courage it takes to walk out on your husband and your child?

speaker1: joanna left billy? she didn't take him with her? 
speaker1: oh

speaker1: where's mommy? 
speaker2: huh?... oh what time is it?

speaker1: the little hand is on the six and the big hand is on the nine. where is mommy? 
speaker2: oh, ah, yeah... you want to know why mom's not here, right?
speaker2: okay, i'm going to tell you... it's like this. mommy and daddy had a little argument and mommy decided she wanted to go off by herself for a little while. you know how sometimes you get mad and want to go off and be by yourself? well, it's like that, okay? okay. now how about some breakfast? ted struggles to his feet and the camera tracks with them as they start toward the kitchen.
speaker1: when is mommy coming back?
speaker2: soon. very soon.

speaker1: i'll tell you what, kiddo â– why don't i fix us some french toast? 
speaker2: wow! french toast, really?
speaker1: sure. didn't i ever tell you french toast was my specialty? i'll bet i never told you that. now then, the first thing we need is... ...eggs! right?
speaker1: this is terrific... isn't this terrific?
speaker1: i'm having a good time... are you having a good time?

speaker1: you forgot the milk. 
speaker2: look at this, isn't this something?!

speaker1: what about my orange juice? 
speaker2: right. one o.j. coming up.
speaker1: daddy!!!
speaker2: don't worry... everything's fine...
speaker3: suddenly all the rage comes pouring out.
speaker2: goddam! son of a
speaker4: terrified.

speaker1: when is mommy coming back? 
speaker2: soon. i told you before, very soon.
speaker1: will she pick me up after school?
speaker2: no. if i'm not here, you go home with thelma and kim.
speaker1: what if she forgets?
speaker2: i'll call thelma and remind her, okay? don't worry.
speaker1: but what happens if she's on her way to school and she gets runned over by a truck and killed? what happens them?

speaker1: terrific news, ted. 
speaker2: hey... look who was out celebrating last night.
speaker3: uh, jim... can i talk to you?

speaker1: christ. that's a real blockbuster. i always figured you guys had it made. 
speaker2: you want to know the real kicker? the real kicker is, for the first time in my life â– the first time â– i feel like a loser. o'connor nods sympathetically. actually he is praying that ted won't start to cry.
speaker1: listen, don't let it get you down. you're going to be fine.
speaker2: me? i've never been better. i mean having my wife walk out on me after seven years of marriage agrees with me just fine.
speaker1: look, ted, i'm the oldest on the beat, okay? three marriages, two divorces... you're gonna be okay.
speaker2: i'm going to be okay. the way i see it, joanna'll come home, it's just a matter of time.
speaker1: she'll be back...
speaker1: but... just in case... i mean, just on the off chance she doesn't. what are you going to do about the kid?
speaker2: i don't know, jim. this whole thing has happened so... pow â– like that.
speaker1: look, it's none of my business, so you can tell me to out, okay? but if you want my advice, you'll send billy away to stay with relatives for a while. just until you get yourself straightened out.
speaker2: i don't know, jim...
speaker1: ted, this may sound a little rough, but we've just landed the biggest account in the history of this agency, right? and now it's up to us â– that's you and me â– to deliver the goods. ted, you're my main man, and if i can't depend on you a hundred and ten percent, twenty-four hours a day, because you're worried about a kid with a runny nose â–
speaker2: jim, i appreciate what you're saying. i mean it, but i really think joanna's coming back.
speaker1: i hope you're right, ted... i really hope you're right.

speaker1: uh, huh... 
speaker2: you got a letter from mom.
speaker1: when is she coming home?!

speaker1: "my dear, sweet billy: mommy has gone away. sometimes in the world daddies go away and mommies bring up their little boys. but sometimes a mommy can go away too, and you have your daddy to bring you up." 
speaker1: "i have gone away because i must find some interesting things to do for myself in the world. everybody has to, and so do i. being your mommy was one thing, but there are other things and this is what i have to do. i did not get a chance to tell you this, and that is why i am writing you now."
speaker1: "i will always be your mommy and i will always love you. i just won't be your mommy in the house. but i will be your mommy of the heart. and
speaker2: billy.

speaker1: reading joanna's letter. 
speaker2: oh, ohmygod...
speaker2: what are you going to do?
speaker3: i don't know, thel... this whole thing has happened so... pow, like that.
speaker2: i mean, what are you going to do about billy?
speaker3: i'm gonna keep him, why?
speaker2: look, this is nothing personal, but i don't think you can do it.
speaker3: thelma, i've lost my wife, i'm not losing my child.
speaker2: all right... okay... but let's get something straight, right now. i mean, i'm sorry about what happened between you and joanna, but it's not my problem, understand?
speaker4: he nods.

speaker1: i'm not going to have you calling every fifteen minutes just because you can't find a hot water bottle, understand? 
speaker1: i've got enough trouble raising my own kid. i don't need another one. got it?
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: you're on your own, understand?
speaker2: i understand.
speaker1: you're sure?
speaker2: i'm sure.

speaker1: all right. who's billy's pediatrician? 
speaker1: ed davies. 230 east 76th street. 472- 8227. fifty bucks a house call, thirty for an office visit. write this down: i'm not telling you twice. what's the nearest hospital?

speaker1: wait a minute! wait a minute! 
speaker2: lenox hill. 77th street between park and lex. the emergency number is 327-

speaker1: colors in one pile, white things in another and shirts in a third. 
speaker1: brush the teeth. hang up the towel and flush the toilet.

speaker1: can't do it tonight. gotta pick up billy. i'm late. 
speaker2: listen, i heard a terrific joke today. there's this polish skydiver â–
speaker1: sorry, jim i've got to go. i'll talk to you tomorrow.

speaker1: you're late. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, pal, but i had a meeting and â–
speaker1: goodbye.
speaker3: goodbye, bill. thank you for coming. mark. say goodbye to bill.
speaker4: bye.
speaker1: bye.
speaker1: i was waiting a long time.
speaker2: it wasn't so long, i'm only... ...twenty minutes late.
speaker1: all the other mothers got here a long time ago... and the doors close, blocking them from view.

speaker1: how was school today? 
speaker2: okay... same as usual...
speaker1: billy, don't eat with your fingers.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: well, i see the yankees finally won a game.
speaker2: mom, i mean dad?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: can i be excused? i'm not hungry. i think i'll go to bed.
speaker1: sure. too much birthday cake, right?
speaker2: i guess...

speaker1: standing in the doorway, watching. 
speaker2: goodnight.
speaker3: 'night.

speaker1: listen, pal, i'm sorry, okay? 
speaker1: i know how you feel. silence.
speaker1: look, i remember one time when. i was a couple of years younger than you are now and... i was staying with this cousin of mine and my parents were supposed to come and pick me up by three, but it got later and later and they didn't and they didn't show up and i remember i got really scared that something had happened to them and i remember when they finally came instead of being happy to see them i was very angry and... billy, i promise i'll never do that to you again, okay?...
speaker1: billy? okay?

speaker1: it's very big... they didn't tell me it was this big. 
speaker2: no... no, actually it's only two bedrooms.
speaker3: phew... this place is a real pig sty.
speaker2: look, my wife just walked out on me. okay? it's been a tough week.
speaker4: don't tell me your troubles, mister. i got enough of my own.

speaker1: the first thing is, i don't do floors. 
speaker2: ted.
speaker1: or windows. i come in at ten and i get wednesdays off.
speaker2: ted.
speaker3: i'll be with you in a minute, jim. you couldn't make that saturday, could you?

speaker1: well, he's... ah, he's a good kid. he's shy and... i think he's probably very creative and... 
speaker2: could i see him?
speaker1: sure. he's right in here.

speaker1: oh... he's very beautiful. 
speaker1: mr. kramer, you are a very lucky man.

speaker1: mom, i mean dad... 
speaker2: uh huh...
speaker1: that's not the right soap. we use the kind in the green and yellow box.
speaker2: c'mon, there's not much difference â–
speaker1: the pink stuff.
speaker2: okay, what color cereal do we get?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: walk him over to bethesda fountain, buy him an ice. it'll kill twenty minutes.
speaker1: i've got a lot more than twenty minutes to kill.
speaker2: tough... ...i get off duty at five-thirty. how long you been divorced?
speaker1: three months. how can you tell?
speaker2: you've got that look. my lady and i split two years ago in august and i'm an old pro at this first thing, stay away from the children's zoo. it's pure â– if i never see another chicken, i'll be happy. i'm here, darling. don't worry...

speaker1: billy? 
speaker2: looking in another direction. nothing.

speaker1: as he realizes what is about to happen. 
speaker2: catching up to the woman.
speaker3: mommy! mommy!
speaker4: quite clearly it is not joanna.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen... 
speaker2: ladies and gentlemen...
speaker1: welcome to the greatest show on earth.
speaker2: welcome to the...

speaker1: greatest. 
speaker2: greatest...
speaker1: show.
speaker2: show...
speaker1: on earth.
speaker2: on earth.

speaker1: mr. kramer, i just wanted to tell you what a wonderful boy your son is. 
speaker2: i don't know... i've been worried... i mean, with what he's been through and everything. i â–
speaker1: no... no... billy is doing just fine.
speaker2: well, you know it's not easy raising a kid on your own and i thought if we could get together and, uh, discuss

speaker1: barbara! congratulations! when is the baby due? 
speaker2: oh, not 'til august.

speaker1: excuse me. you said you wanted to talk, mr. kramer. 
speaker2: yes, but... ah, not now... i've got an appointment... i forgot all about it...

speaker1: mr. o'connor called. there's a meeting with the revlon people in the board room and you're fifteen minutes late. 
speaker2: i know... i know.
speaker1: mr. schmidt can't have the figures on the television buy until monday.
speaker2: no. uh, uh. tell him i asked for it friday. i want it friday. period.
speaker1: mr. lombardo from packaging wants to meet on friday.
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: and mrs. kelsey called to ask if billy can come to stephanie's birthday party on tuesday.

speaker1: yes. remind me to pick up a "crying chrissie" doll at lunch on tuesday. 
speaker2: if it's all right with you, mother kramer, can we get down to work now?

speaker1: hiya, phyllis. these are the revlon contracts. i thought you ought to check them out. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: as he realizes this.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: yes, what?
speaker1: yes, i'll have dinner with you.

speaker1: kramer, i've got to go. i've got an eight o'clock closing tomorrow down on centre street. 
speaker2: mmmmnph... i'll get you a cab... but he makes no move to get up. phyllis gets to her feet and in the dim light we can see that, except for her glasses, she is naked.
speaker1: that's okay. it's just that i've got these clients that are â–

speaker1: oh, 
speaker2: do you like fried chicken?
speaker1: ah... yes.

speaker1: like that?! 
speaker1: and?
speaker2: he wanted to know if i liked fried chicken.
speaker1: do you?
speaker1: so what's your problem?

speaker1: you ever think about getting married again? 
speaker2: no, not really... i guess it's different if you don't have children, but... i dunno, even if charley and i don't live together, even if we're sleeping with other people, even if charley was to marry again... he'd still be my husband. that stuff about "till death do you part?" that's really true.
speaker1: how many onions does it say to use?
speaker2: three. and add some basil.
speaker1: d'you think you and charley'll ever get back together again?
speaker2: no. i don't think so.
speaker1: c'mon, thel. so charley had a little fling. so what? all in all he was a pretty good husband.
speaker2: look, i know this isn't gonna make any sense, okay? i mean forget the logic part... but i keep thinking if charley really loved me, he wouldn't have let me divorce him.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: murray had some ideas about the fire and ice campaign and he had the art department make up a few roughs... i think they're kind of interesting.
speaker1: i don't. jim, this isn't anything like what we talked about. it's not even close.
speaker3: ted, basically it's still your concept.
speaker2: murray just added a few things, that's all.
speaker1: now hold it right there, i'm the one that went in and sold revlon on this idea to start with, remember? you said i was going to be â– sound-effect: the phone rings.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker1: it's for you.
speaker2: yes?
speaker2: look, billy, i told you before, one hour of t.v. a day, that's the rule... no... i don't care what the other mothers do... listen, i can't talk now, i'm in a meeting... billy, i'll talk to you later, good- bye.
speaker3: ted, i appreciate what you're saying, but i really think you're just too close to it right now.
speaker1: murray's right. look it's just some ideas, okay? i mean nothing's locked in cement. i promise you this is your show...
speaker1: trust me on this one, ted...

speaker1: mom, i mean dad... 
speaker2: in a minute...
speaker1: what do you do when an elephant sits on your fence?
speaker1: you get a new fence.
speaker2: goddamnit, can't you watch what you're doing!

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: je-sus christ! i catch all kind of at the office because i'm not pulling my weight because i'm busting my trying to be a decent father and â–
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: that's terrific. that's really terrific, but i notice i'm the one that's cleaning up this â– oh, crap, i'll have to do this one over.
speaker1: i'm sorry. by now there is nothing the boy can do right.
speaker2: look, it's after your bedtime, okay? just do me a favor and go to bed, okay?

speaker1: look, i'm sorry i yelled, okay? 
speaker2: that's okay.
speaker1: it's just... i've been catching a lot of flack at the office...
speaker2: that's okay...

speaker1: perrier and lime... ...and scotch with soda. the waiter bustles away. 
speaker2: okay, phyllis, what's up?
speaker3: kramer...
speaker3: o'connor's out to get you. he's going to take the fire and ice account away from you.
speaker2: what?!?
speaker2: i don't believe it! that's crazy! why would jim do something like that?
speaker3: you want to know why? i'll tell you why... another scotch and soda for the gentleman. i'll tell you exactly why. because you're not his buddy anymore. because he can't count on you to sit around the office every night until eight or nine and shoot the with him.
speaker2: i can't. i've got billy to take care of.
speaker3: you dope. o'connor doesn't give a about billy. all he wants is somebody that'll hang around with him every night so he won't have to go home.
speaker2: i don't believe you.
speaker3: all right. okay. but tell me something, kramer. who do you think is palling around with o'connor these days?
speaker2: how should i know?
speaker3: murray.
speaker4: stunned, but trying to be nonchalant.
speaker2: so... what's so terrible about that?
speaker3: oh, for sake, kramer. you have got to be the world's most naive human being. murray has gone in and changed every single ad you've done on the entire fire and ice campaign. every layout... every idea... every single thing, right down the line.
speaker2: no. no, i don't believe it. jim o'connor would never let anything like that happen. he gave me my shot in this business. if it wasn't for jim o'connor i'd be â– i don't know where i'd be. he's a wonderful man...
speaker3: kramer, i'm sorry. all i was trying to do was â–
speaker2: i don't want to hear another word against him. not another word. he's a wonderful man... a wonderful man...

speaker1: all right, jim. you said i was running this show, right? you said no decisions without my approval, right? well what the is this? what's going on, jim? 
speaker2: well, ah... i thought it over and i decided we're doing it murray's way.
speaker1: jim, this is garbage. this isn't anything like what we talked to revlon about. none of it. you can't â–
speaker2: that's my decision, ted and that's final.

speaker1: salisbury steak. 
speaker2: i hate it.
speaker1: you don't hate it. we had salisbury steak last week and you liked it fine.
speaker2: no i didn't. i hate the brown stuff. it's gross.
speaker1: all it is is onions and gravy.
speaker2: i'm allergic to onions.
speaker1: you are not allergic of onions. you've had them lots of times.
speaker2: i want a pizza.
speaker1: no. this is fine. just take a bite, you'll like it fine.
speaker2: i think i'm going to throw up.
speaker1: oh, for sake... here.
speaker1: there, okay? now that's just plain old hamburger.
speaker2: some of the brown stuff is still there.
speaker1: then eat around it.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: now listen to me, young man. do you know what i had to go through to put this food on the table?
speaker2: i don't care. i hate it. i want pizza.
speaker1: not on your life. that's it. i've had it with around this house. from now on, no more pizza! get it? starting right now you can eat real food like a normal human being!
speaker2: no!
speaker1: you want to know something?! you are a spoiled selfish little brat! now eat â–

speaker1: goddamnit! go to your room! 
speaker2: owwww... you're hurting me... you're hurting me... i hate you... i hate you...
speaker1: you're no bargain either, pal.
speaker2: i want my mommy... i want my mommy..
speaker2: i want my... mm... ommy... i want mmmy... mommy...
speaker1: tough you're stuck with me.

speaker1: daddy? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: i'm sorry...
speaker2: that's okay, pal. go back to sleep. it's very late.
speaker1: daddy?
speaker2: uh huh?
speaker1: are you... gonna go... away?
speaker2: of course i'm not going away. i love you very much. i'll be right here.
speaker1: that's why mommy left... isn't it? 'cause i was bad...
speaker2: oh, oh, no, pal. your mom loves you very much. the reason she left didn't have anything to do with you. look, i don't know if this will make any sense to you, okay? but i'll try and explain. you see the reason your mom left was because... well, i guess it was because i kept trying to make her into a certain kind of person... make her be the way i thought a wife was supposed to be. only she wasn't like that. she was... well, she wasn't like that. and now, when i think about it, i can see she tried very hard to be like i wanted â– very hard. and when she couldn't, then she tried to tell me about it. only i wouldn't listen. i guess i thought that if i was happy, that meant she was happy too. only she wasn't. the truth is, the only reason she didn't leave a lot sooner was because she loves you so much. joanna stayed until she couldn't stand me any longer and then she left... but it wasn't you, pal. it wasn't you. there is a long beat of silence as billy thinks about this.
speaker1: is mom ever coming back?
speaker2: you mean for good?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: now go to sleep. it's very late.
speaker1: good night.
speaker2: sleep tight.
speaker1: don't let the bedbugs bite.
speaker2: see you in the morning light.
speaker1: dad?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i love you...

speaker1: thel, you ever hear from joanna? 
speaker2: not for a couple of months. the last time i heard from her she was living in san francisco.
speaker1: california?
speaker2: uh, huh... she said she had a good job, was playing a lot of tennis. she wanted to know all about billy.
speaker1: she ever ask about me?
speaker2: uh, huh... yeah...
speaker1: what d'you tell her?
speaker2: i told her you're doing a pretty good job.
speaker3: daddy! daddy!

speaker1: daddy, look! presenting billy kramer's fantastic superjet! 
speaker2: watching him, smiling.

speaker1: there. that wasn't so bad, was it? 
speaker1: now then, you just wait here, billy. i want to talk to your dad for a minute.

speaker1: but i'm going to have to take some stitches. 
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: ten.
speaker1: because of the position of the wound and your son's age, i don't think there will be much of a scar. otherwise i'd call in a plastic surgeon.
speaker1: now, i'd advise you to wait outside. it'll be eas â–
speaker2: no.
speaker1: mr. kramer, there's â–
speaker2: you. he's my son. i'm staying with him.

speaker1: ohhh... ohhhh... ohhhhh... 
speaker2: it's okay, son... i'm here... just a little more to go... don't worry, son... i'm here...

speaker1: he's okay... thel, can i ask you a favor? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: i don't mean a little favor. i mean a big favor.
speaker1: thelma, if i die â–
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i didn't say i'm going to die, but if i should â–
speaker2: don't say that! i don't want to hear you say that!
speaker1: thel, listen to me. if, on the million to one shot that i should â– that anything should happen to me. would you take care of billy?
speaker2: me?! you want me to take care of billy?!
speaker1: i thought about it a lot and you're the only person i know that i trust with him. i mean, if anything happened to me, he'd be okay with you. you're a good mother.
speaker1: i know it's not an easy thing to answer.
speaker1: look, if it's too much responsibility
speaker3: thelma nods, unable to speak.
speaker1: you're sure?
speaker1: thank you, thel. thank you very much.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: ted?
speaker1: joanna?

speaker1: good evening, mr. kramer. we haven't seen you for a long time. mrs. kramer, she waits for you in the back. 
speaker2: thank you, john.

speaker1: as he crosses to her table, sits down. 
speaker2: hello, ted. you look well.
speaker3: so do you.
speaker4: the usual, mr. kramer.
speaker3: thanks, gino.
speaker2: how's the new job?
speaker3: fine.
speaker3: look at us, joanna. just like any old married couple having dinner. who would believe it.
speaker2: yes... how's billy?
speaker3: he's great... except... ...except he had... he fell and he cut his face. he... he has a scar, joanna, from about here to here.
speaker3: i can't help but feel somehow... it's my fault. i keep thinking i could've done something â– stopped it...
speaker2: you can't tell it from a distance, ted.
speaker3: what?

speaker1: i've seen him. 
speaker2: you have?
speaker1: a few times. sometimes i sit in that coffee shop across the street and watch when you take him to school.
speaker1: he looks like a terrific kid.
speaker2: he is... you sat in that coffee shop across from school â–
speaker1: watching my son... ted, i've been living in new york for the past two months.
speaker2: you've been living here, in the city?
speaker1: ted... the reason i wanted to see you... i want billy back.
speaker2: you want what?!
speaker1: i want my son. i'm through sitting in coffee shops looking at him from across the street. i want my son.
speaker2: are you out of your mind?! you're the one that walked out on him, remember?
speaker1: ted, listen to me... you and i, we had a really crappy marriage â– look, don't get so defensive, okay? it was probably as much my fault as it was yours... anyway when i left i was really screwed up â–
speaker2: joanna, i don't give a â–
speaker1: ted, all my life i'd either been somebody's daughter or somebody's wife, or somebody else's mother. then all of a sudden, i was a thirty- two-year-old, highly neurotic woman who had just walked out on her husband and child. i went to california because that was about as far away as i could get. only... i guess it wasn't far enough. so i started going to a shrink. ted, i've had time to think. i've been through some changes. i've learned a lot about myself.
speaker2: such as?
speaker2: come on, joanna, what did you learn? i'd really like to know.
speaker2: one thing, okay? just tell me one goddam thing you've learned.
speaker1: i've learned that i want my son.
speaker2: joanna, go be a mother. get married, have kids. don't get married, have kids. do whatever you want. i don't give a just leave me out of it â– and leave my baby out of it.
speaker1: ted, if you can't discuss this rationally -
speaker2: joanna, go yourself!

speaker1: look, she walked out on her own child, right? that's desertion, right? mr. shaunessy, i'm telling you it's an open and shut case. 
speaker2: first, there's no such thing as an open and shut case. especially where custody is involved. got it?
speaker2: second, the burden is on us to prove your ex-wife is an unfit mother. that means i'm going to have to play rough and, if i play rough, you can bet they will too. can you take that, mr. kramer?
speaker2: third, it'll cost you five thousand dollars.
speaker3: that's an astronomical amount of money to him.
speaker2: that's if we win. if we lose, you could end up having to pay your wife's court costs as well.
speaker1: fine.
speaker2: good. you've hired yourself a of a lawyer, mr. kramer. how old is the child?
speaker1: six.
speaker2: that's tough. in most cases involving a child that young, the court tends to side with the mother.
speaker1: but she signed over custody. here...
speaker2: i'm not saying we don't have a shot, but it won't be easy... mr. kramer, do me a favor. there is something i find very helpful in matters like this. i sit down and make a list of all the pros and cons on an issue. i actually write them down and look at them. i want you to do that, okay? then, after that, if you're really sure you want to retain custody of your child â– then we'll go in there and whip their asses.

speaker1: i love you billy kramer. 
speaker2: i love you too daddy.
speaker1: sleep tight. don't let the bedbugs bite...
speaker2: see you in the morning light...

speaker1: disappointing. it only pulled a fourteen share and they were hoping for a twenty five minimum, and... ah... they're not very happy and... well, the guys have decided they want to... ah, re-think the entire concept and... look, i don't like having to do this, okay?... but... i mean, what i mean is... ah, i'm going to have to... ah, let you go â– 
speaker2: are you firing me, jim?
speaker1: c'mon, ted, don't get emotional. okay? look, this isn't exactly an easy thing for me to do, y'know? i swear murray and i did everything we could, but those sons of were out for blood. i mean it was all i could do to keep the account inside the shop... look, i promise, if i hear of anything i'll let you know first thing.
speaker1: ted?...

speaker1: ummm, hmmm... umm, hmmm... well, this looks very good.. of course ...you understand this is the worst time of the year to look for a job. 
speaker2: what?! what do you mean, i don't understand.
speaker1: mr. kramer, nobody even thinks about leaving their job until after they get their christmas bonus.
speaker2: look, you don't understand. i need a job. i've got a kid and â–
speaker1: i understand and i'm absolutely sure something wonderful will turn up... ...after the first of the year.

speaker1: uh, huh? 
speaker2: mr. kramer? please hold for mr. shaunessy...
speaker3: ted? they've set the court date. i just heard today... it's... january sixth.
speaker1: oh, christ.. .john, there's some- thing i ought to tell you. my... ah, situation has... changed. i lost my job.
speaker1: john?
speaker3: ted, i won't lie to you, we don't have a hope in of winning a custody hearing if you're out of work. ted doubles over the phone like he has been hit in the stomach.
speaker1: good christ, joanna, just get the out of my life.
speaker3: ted? are you there?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: any prospects?
speaker1: don't worry. i plan to have something within twenty-four hours, john.
speaker3: how the are you going to do that?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: mis-ter kramer, as i mentioned yesterday, this is a very bad time of year to look for work. now i'm sure we'll have something for you by mid-february, march at the latest. 
speaker2: leaning forward, impatient.
speaker3: i need a job, now.

speaker1: no... no... no... 
speaker1: there might be something at j. walter thompson. but... ...i don't think they're really serious. the position's been open for two months and... they may just be on a fishing expedition. i'm sure you'll be much happier if you wait until after the first â–
speaker2: call up the people at j. walter thompson. set up an appointment at four.
speaker1: mis-ter kramer, it's... ...almost four now. it's the friday before christmas. nobody is going to want to â–
speaker2: either you call and set up the appointment, or i'll call. and if i call, you lose the commission.
speaker1: my, we are a hot shot aren't we?
speaker2: you bet your ass.

speaker1: well, mr. kramer, i must say this has been very impressive. i'd like to think about it and get back to you. 
speaker2: mr. ackerman, is there anyone else that i should see before you come to a decision.
speaker1: mr. spencer, our advertising director.
speaker2: could i see him right away?
speaker1: i'm sorry, but he's leaving this evening for a two-week vacation. i'll set up something the moment he gets back. he gets to his feet, starts to shake ted's hand, ready to end the interview.
speaker2: i'd like to see him now â– before he leaves.
speaker1: mr. kramer, i don't think â–
speaker2: i want this position very much.
speaker1: wait here.

speaker1: mr. spencer, mr. kramer. 
speaker2: so you're the go-getter. all right, you've got ten minutes.

speaker1: that's very interesting, mr. kramer. i must say, it's very interesting. let me think about it. i'll let jack... ...know and he'll get in touch with you. 
speaker2: excuse me, i believe you said i had ten minutes.
speaker1: well?
speaker2: that means i've got two minutes left. i understand you're paying twenty- five.
speaker2: all right, i'll tell you what i'm gonna do â– i'll take the job at twenty- two-five. now, that's twenty-five hundred less than you're offering. the only thing is, you have to say yes right now. not tomorrow. not next week. not after the holidays. it's worth it to me for a yes right now and i'll take twenty-five hundred less.
speaker2: today only. one day only. twenty-two five.
speaker1: mr. kramer, can we talk privately for a moment?
speaker2: certainly.

speaker1: hold for a beat as we hear: 
speaker2: hello?
speaker3: ted? john shaunessy here. i just got a call from your wife's lawyer. she wants to see the kid.

speaker1: horrified. 
speaker2: what?! she wants what?!
speaker3: she's the mother. that means she's within her legal rights.
speaker2: john, what if she kidnaps him. i've heard all these â–
speaker4: look, ted, i don't honestly think she would go to the trouble of suing you for custody of the child if she was planning on kidnapping him.
speaker2: i don't know, john... i mean, to be brutally honest, i'm not so sure what kind of mental shape joanna's in right now. y'know she admitted she was seeing a shrink.
speaker3: you ever see her talk to the walls?
speaker2: no, but â–
speaker3: then you don't have a choice. have billy at the seventy-fifth street entrance to central park, saturday at ten.

speaker1: as he spots his mother. 
speaker2: mommy!
speaker3: as she turns, spots billy, starts to run.

speaker1: oh, billy... oh my billy... oh my son... 
speaker2: joanna gets to her feet and takes billy's hand.
speaker1: i'll have him back at six. and they start off in the opposite direction.

speaker1: so, naturally, you assume that since joanna left, that would be a compelling point against her, right? 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: but it doesn't work that way. a major decision was handed down by the appellate court in 1969 â– in the case of haskins vs. haskins.
speaker2: kramer â–
speaker1: now in haskins vs. haskins the court ruled in favor of the mother, thus establishing a precedent for awarding the child to the mother even though she previously abandoned the baby.
speaker2: kramer... there's something i ought to tell you.
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: i've been offered a job in washington with h.e.w.
speaker3: he stops what he is doing, turns to her.
speaker1: and?
speaker2: i'm going to take it.
speaker4: he sits down on the bed.
speaker2: it's a very good job â– too good to pass up. i'll be handling funding for the whole... look, i... ..."like" you a lot. and you... ..."like" me, okay? maybe if it was a year from now, maybe things would be different...
speaker2: i'll miss you, kramer...

speaker1: mr. kramer? 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: i'm dr. alvarez, judge atkins asked me to look in on your son and prepare an evaluation sheet.
speaker2: oh, yes. won't you come in.
speaker1: where is the child?
speaker2: he's in his room, playing.
speaker1: good. i'll see him in there.
speaker1: mr. kramer, do you ever have in here with anyone?
speaker2: doctor, i attempt to conduct my social life discreetly. at the moment i am seeing no one.

speaker1: does that distress you? 
speaker2: not particularly.
speaker1: what does?
speaker2: the prospect of losing my child.
speaker1: very well, i'd like to see him if i may.

speaker1: billy. this is dr. alvarez. she would like to talk to you. 
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: i'd like to talk to billy privately.
speaker1: oh, yeah...

speaker1: what do you have here, billy? 
speaker2: detroit.
speaker1: have you ever been to detroit?
speaker2: no. but i've been to brooklyn.
speaker1: i see you have people there. what are their names?
speaker2: that's kim... and this one's thelma and that's mrs. willewska and this is daddy and that's batman and over there is robin.
speaker1: what about your mommy?
speaker2: oh, sure. here, this can be mommy.
speaker1: do you like to be with your mommy?
speaker3: objection. you're leading the witness.
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: what do you like best about her?
speaker2: lunch in a restaurant.
speaker1: what do you like best about your daddy?
speaker2: playing.
speaker1: tell me, does your daddy ever hit you?
speaker4: eyes wide. he starts to get up.
speaker3: objection.
speaker2: sure. lots of times.
speaker1: when does he hit you?
speaker2: he hits me on the planet kriptarium, when i steal the buried treasure from the famous peanut butter factory.
speaker1: in real life when does he hit you?
speaker2: my daddy doesn't hit me, silly. why would my daddy hit me?

speaker1: see. that's my name. 
speaker2: it's my name too.
speaker1: right.

speaker1: wow! 
speaker2: you like it?
speaker1: wow! is this really where you work?
speaker1: is this really your desk?
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: is that really your chair?
speaker2: uh huh...
speaker1: wow! that's neat. can i sit in it?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: did mommy ever see this?
speaker2: no, she never did.
speaker1: are you going to get remarried?
speaker2: i don't know. i hadn't thought much about it.
speaker1: are you going to remarried phyllis?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: there is a long pause, then:
speaker1: will you and mommy get remarried?
speaker2: no, son. daddy and mommy will never get remarried.
speaker1: boy, i bet you if mommy ever saw this she'd remarried you.

speaker1: oyez, oyez... the third circuit court of the state of new york, judge atkins presiding is now in session. all rise... 
speaker2: as the judge enters, takes his seat.
speaker2: as gressen gets to his feet.
speaker3: your honor. as our first witness i would like to call joanna kramer.
speaker4: the lawyer leans across to ted.
speaker5: real direct. motherhood... they're going right for the throat.

speaker1: now then, mrs. kramer, would you tell the court how long you were married? 
speaker2: six years.
speaker1: and would you describe those years as happy?
speaker2: the first couple, yes, but after that it became increasingly difficult.
speaker1: mrs. kramer, did you ever work in a job while you were married to your ex-husband?
speaker2: no, i did not.
speaker1: did you wish to?
speaker2: yes. i tried to talk to ted â– my ex- husband â– about it, but he wouldn't listen. he refuses to discuss it in any serious way. i remember one time he said i probably couldn't get a job that would pay enough to hire a baby-sitter for billy.
speaker1: tell me, mrs. kramer, are you employed at the present time?
speaker2: yes, i work for jantzen as a sportswear designer.
speaker1: and what is your present salary?
speaker2: i make thirty-one thousand dollars a year.
speaker3: stunned.
speaker1: mrs. kramer, do you love your child?
speaker2: yes. very much.
speaker1: and yet you chose to leave him?
speaker2: yes... look, during the last five years we were married, i had... i was getting more and more... unhappy, more and more frustrated. i needed to talk to somebody. i needed to find out if it was me, if i was going crazy or what. but every time i turned to ted â– my ex-husband, he couldn't handle it. he became very... i don't know, very threatened. i mean, whenever i would bring up anything he would act like it was some kind of personal attack. anyway, we became more and more separate... more and more isolated from one another. finally, i had no other choice, i had to leave. and because of my ex- husband's attitude â– his unwillingness to deal with my feelings, i had come to have almost no self-esteem... at the time i left, i sincerely believed that there was something wrong with me â– that my son would be better off without me. it was only when i got to california and started into therapy i began to realize i wasn't a terrible person. and that just because i needed some creative and emotional outlet other than my child, that didn't make me unfit to be a mother.
speaker1: mr. kramer, why did you set up residence in new york?
speaker2: because my son is here. and his father is here. as a mother, i don't want my child to be separated from his father.
speaker1: mrs. kramer, can you tell the court why you are asking for custody?
speaker2: because he's my child... because i love him. i know i left my son, i know that's a terrible thing to do. believe me, i have to live with that every day of my life. but just because i'm a woman, don't i have a right to the same hopes and dreams as a man? don't i have a right to a life of my own? is that so awful? is my pain any less just because i'm a woman? are my feelings any cheaper? i left my child â– i know there is no excuse for that. but since then, i have gotten help. i have worked hard to become a whole human being. i don't think i should be punished for that. i don't think my son should be punished for that. billy's only six. he needs me. i'm not saying he doesn't need his father, but he needs me more. i'm his mother.
speaker1: thank you, mrs. kramer. i have no further questions.

speaker1: now then, mrs. kramer, you said you were married seven years. is that correct? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: in all that time did your husband ever strike you or abuse you physically in any way.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did your husband strike or physically abuse his child in any way?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: would you describe your husband as an alcoholic?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: a heavy drinker?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: was he unfaithful?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: did he ever fail to provide for you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, i can certainly understand why you left him.
speaker3: objection.
speaker1: how long do you plan to live in new york, mrs. kramer?
speaker2: permanently.
speaker1: permanently? mrs. kramer, how many boy friends have you had â– permanently?
speaker2: i don't recall.
speaker1: how many lovers have you had â– permanently?
speaker2: i don't recall.
speaker1: more than three, less than thirty- three â– permanently?
speaker3: objection!
speaker4: overruled. the witness will answer, please.
speaker2: somewhere in between.
speaker1: do you have a lover now?
speaker3: objection!
speaker1: your honor, i would request a direct answer to a direct question. does she have a lover?
speaker4: i'll allow that. the witness will answer please.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: is that... permanent?
speaker2: i... i don't know...
speaker1: then, we don't really know, do we, when you say "permanently" if you're planning to remain in new york, or even to keep the child for that matter, since you've never really done anything in your life that was continuing, stable, that could be regarded as permanent.
speaker3: objection! i must ask that the counsel be prevented from harassing the witness.
speaker4: sustained.
speaker1: mrs. kramer, how can you consider yourself a fit mother when you have been a failure at virtually every relationship you have undertaken as an adult?
speaker3: objection!
speaker4: sustained.
speaker1: i'll ask it another way. what was the longest personal relationship you have had in your life â– other than parents and girlfriends?
speaker2: ah... i guess i'd have to say... with my child.
speaker1: whom you've seen twice in a year? mrs. kramer, your ex-husband, wasn't he the longest personal relationship in your life?
speaker2: i suppose...
speaker1: would you speak up, mrs. kramer? i couldn't hear you.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: how long was that?
speaker2: we were married two years before the baby. and then four very difficult years.
speaker1: so, you were a failure at the longest, most important relationship in your life.
speaker3: objection!
speaker4: overruled.
speaker2: i was not a failure.
speaker1: oh? what do you call it then â– a success? the marriage ended in divorce.
speaker2: i consider it less my failure than his.
speaker1: congratulations, mrs. kramer. you have just rewritten matrimonial law. you were both divorced, mrs. kramer.
speaker3: objection!
speaker1: your honor, i'd like to ask what this model of stability and respectability has ever succeeded at? mrs. kramer, were you a failure at the longest, most important personal relationship in your life?
speaker5: who sits silently.
speaker4: please answer the question, mrs. kramer.
speaker2: it did not succeed.
speaker1: not it... not it, mrs. kramer â– you. were you a failure at the most important personal relationship of your life?
speaker6: silence.
speaker1: were you?

speaker1: no further questions. 
speaker2: as shaunessy sits down next to ted.
speaker3: christ. did you have to be so rough on her?
speaker1: do you want the kid or don't you?

speaker1: now then, mr. o'connor, how long did ted kramer work for you? 
speaker2: eight, almost nine years.
speaker1: and did you have a close personal relationship?
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: and how did you find his work?
speaker2: it was good. he was a hard worker, a lot of drive, a real hustler.
speaker1: and yet you fired him.
speaker2: ted was a good worker. but, ah... after his wife left him and he was taking care of the kid on his own, things started to change. look, i know he had problems, i understand that. i've got problems, everybody's got problems. but i've got a shop to run, i can't let that kind of thing get in the way... i guess i felt that ted was letting his duties at home interfere with his responsibilities in the office.
speaker1: thank you. i have no further questions.
speaker3: mr. o'connor, does the agency still have the fire and ice account?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: mr. o'connor, can you tell me where you are employed at the moment?
speaker2: at the moment i am unemployed.

speaker1: mom â– i mean, dad? 
speaker2: uh, huh?
speaker1: what did you do when you were little?
speaker2: i guess about the same kind of things you do.
speaker1: did you watch "i dream of jeannie?"
speaker2: uh, uh... we didn't have television then.
speaker1: you didn't have t.v.?
speaker2: nope. it hadn't been invented yet.
speaker1: was there apple juice when you were little?
speaker2: yeah, there was apple juice.
speaker1: was there burger king?
speaker2: uh, uh. there was no such a thing as burger king.
speaker1: what else wasn't there?

speaker1: mrs. phillips, how long have you known ted kramer? 
speaker2: six years. ever since ted and joanna moved into the building.
speaker1: how often do you see mr. kramer and his son?
speaker2: charley, my husband, and i are... divorced and kim, that's our daughter is about billy's age and the children play together a lot. so, i guess we see each three or four times a week.
speaker1: can you describe the relationship between mr. kramer and his son?
speaker2: it's beautiful. it's just beautiful. they have a beautiful relationship.
speaker3: objection, your honor. the answer is, to be generous, very vague.
speaker1: can you recall any particular incident that relates to mr. kramer's care of his child?
speaker2: ted â– mr. kramer, spends a great deal of time with his child. i don't just mean hours, i mean good time, involved time. he reads to billy. they play together. they talk all the time... he is a very... kind man... a very... devoted father, and... and... and joanna if you ever saw them together... there wouldn't be a trial at all... oh, i'm sorry... i'm sorry...
speaker1: no further questions. thank you mrs. phillips.
speaker3: no questions.

speaker1: mr. kramer, would you tell the court exactly why you want to retain custody of your child. 
speaker2: when joanna â– â– my ex-wife â– when she was talking before about how unhappy she was during our marriage... well, i guess most of what she said was probably true. there were a lot of things i didn't understand â– a lot of things i would do different if i could. just like i guess there are a lot of things joanna wishes she could change... but we can't. some things, once they are done, can't be undone. joanna says she loves billy. i believe she does. so do i. but the way it was explained to me, that's not the issue. the only thing that's supposed to matter here is what's best for billy... when joanna said why shouldn't a woman have the same ambitions as a man, i suppose she's right. but by the same token what law is it that says a woman is a better parent simply by virtue of her sex? i guess i've had to think a lot about whatever it is that makes somebody a good parent: constancy, patience, understanding... love. where is it written that a man has any less of those qualities than a woman? billy has a home with me, i've tried to make it the best i could. it's not perfect. i'm not a perfect parent. i don't have enough patience. sometimes i forget he's just a little kid... but i love him... more than anything in this world i love him.
speaker1: thank you, mr. kramer. no further questions.

speaker1: mr. kramer, by any chance have you ever had a woman in your bed while your child was asleep in the next room? 
speaker2: i suppose.
speaker1: so do i.
speaker3: objection!
speaker4: sustained.
speaker1: mr. kramer, isn't it true that you were fired from your last job not more than six weeks ago?
speaker2: technically, the agency lost a big account and seventy four people were let go. i was one of them.
speaker1: you were fired, correct?
speaker2: yes, but i'm with j. walter thompson now. i don't think that will happen again.
speaker1: give them time...
speaker3: objection, your honor! counsel is harassing the witness.
speaker1: your honor, i'm only examining the man's employment record. he pretends to fitness when he cannot hold a job.
speaker4: sustained.

speaker1: mr. kramer, did your child nearly lose an eye when he was in your care? 
speaker2: stunned. he looks across at joanna.
speaker3: joanna looks away.
speaker1: mr. kramer, did you, or did you not tell the child's mother that you were responsible for the injury that permanently disfigured your child?
speaker4: objection! your honor, counsel is raising a question that is not germane to these proceedings.
speaker1: while the child was in the care of the witness, he cut his face badly and is now scarred.
speaker5: are you introducing the question of negligence here, counselor?
speaker1: yes, your honor.
speaker5: i see. well, you'll have to do better than that. do you have any affidavits to support negligence?
speaker1: i do not, your honor, however â–
speaker5: this is an isolated incident, counselor, unless you can prove otherwise.
speaker1: does the witness deny the injury took place?
speaker5: no, counselor, i'm going to over- rule you on this line of questioning.
speaker1: then i have concluded my questions.

speaker1: ted. 
speaker2: there, standing waiting for him is joanna.

speaker1: i'm sorry... i just mentioned it in passing. i never thought he'd use it. 
speaker2: yeah, well he did, didn't he.
speaker1: please, ted. i never would have brought it up if i thought â–
speaker2: i'm not interested, joanna. goodbye.

speaker1: you heard anything yet? 
speaker2: any day.
speaker1: ted.
speaker2: uh, huh...
speaker1: ah, charley and i are... well, we're thinking about... i mean, actually we're sort of talking about maybe getting back together.
speaker2: you and charley?
speaker2: really?
speaker2: hey, that's terrific.
speaker1: maybe. i said maybe. what i mean is, ah... i don't think it'll really work out, but charley seems to want it, so...
speaker1: oh, ted, i am really scared.

speaker1: as ted sits down. 
speaker2: well?
speaker2: oh, christ!

speaker1: the judge went for motherhood straight down the line. 
speaker2: i lost him? i lost him?
speaker1: i can't tell you how sorry i am.
speaker2: oh, no..
speaker1: ordered, adjudged and decreed that the petitioner be awarded custody of the minor child, effective monday the 23rd of january. that the respondent pay for the maintenance and support of said child, four hundred dollars each month. that the father shall have the following rights of visitation: every other weekend, one night each week to be mutually agreed upon and one half of the child's vacation period. that's it.
speaker2: what if i fight it?
speaker1: we can appeal, but i can't guarantee anything.
speaker2: i'll take my chances.
speaker1: it's going to cost.
speaker2: don't worry. i'll get the money.
speaker1: i've got to tell you something, ted. this time it'll be billy that pays. this time i'll have to put him on the stand.
speaker3: as his last hope goes crashing to the ground.
speaker2: oh, christ no... i can't do that. i just... can't... excuse me... i'm sorry... i just...

speaker1: ted!... it's me... ted?... 
speaker2: please go away, thel... i... i just have to be by myself for a little while...
speaker1: ted, i just heard...
speaker2: please, thel...
speaker1: i'm so... sorry... oh, ted, i'm so sorry...

speaker1: daddy! you're home early. did you get fired again? 
speaker2: no, son, i didn't get fired. i'll tell you what we'll do, okay? how about if we go to a burger king and then we watch a little t.v. and then we get packed to go to the country tomorrow. just you and me... how 'bout that?

speaker1: billy, sometimes when a mother and a father are divorced, there's a discussion about who the child should live with, the mother or the father. now there is a man who is very wise. he's called a judge. and a judge has a lot of experience with divorces and he decides who it would be best for the child to live with. 
speaker2: why does he decide?
speaker1: because... well, that's what he does. he's a very powerful man.
speaker2: like a principal?
speaker1: bigger than a principal. the judge sits in robes in a big chair... the judge has thought a lot about us, about you and me and your mom, and he has decided... ...he has decided that it would be best for you to live with your mom joanna in her apartment. and i'm very lucky. because even though you'll live with your mom joanna i'll get to see you once a week for dinner and a couple of weekends a month.
speaker2: i don't understand, daddy.
speaker1: what don't you understand, pal?
speaker2: where will my bed be, where will i sleep?
speaker1: at your mom's. she'll have a bed for you in your own room.
speaker2: where will my toys be?
speaker1: i'll send your toys there and i'm sure you'll get some new ones.
speaker2: who will read me my stories?
speaker1: your mom.
speaker2: daddy, what if the face comes when i'm at mommy's?
speaker1: your mom knows all about the face, okay? don't worry, she'll tell the face to beat it.
speaker2: will you come and say good-night to me every night?
speaker1: look, it's getting cold. why don't you go inside where it's warm. i'll be along in a minute.
speaker1: go on, scoot.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: ted, it's joanna. can you meet me in the lobby?... alone?
speaker1: i'll be back in a minute.

speaker1: okay, i'm here. now why did you â– 
speaker2: ted, do you love him?
speaker1: goddamnit, joanna. what the â–
speaker2: ted, do you love him?
speaker2: i love him too... i don't think i ever knew how much until now.
speaker2: ted, when we got married it was because i was twenty-seven years old and i thought i should get married and... when i had billy it was because i thought i should have a baby... and i guess all i did was mess up my life and your life and â–
speaker1: joanna, what the is â–
speaker2: please... please don't stop me. this is the hardest thing i've ever had to do..
speaker2: after i left... when i was in california, i began to think, what kind of mother was i that i could walk out on my own child. it got to where i couldn't tell anybody about billy â– i couldn't stand that look in their faces when i said he wasn't living with me. finally it seemed like the most important thing in the world to come back here and prove to billy and to me and to the world how much i loved him... and i did... and i won. only... it was just another "should." ...sitting in that courtroom. hearing everything you did, everything you went through... something happened. i guess it doesn't matter how much i love him, or how much you love him. i guess it's like you said, the only thing that counts is what's best for billy. i don't know, maybe that's all love is anyway... ted, i think billy should stay with you...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: he's already got one mother, he doesn't need two... he's yours... i won't fight you for him any more. he's yours...
speaker1: oh, oh, my
speaker2: only can i still see him?
speaker1: no more waiting in coffee shops... i promise.
speaker2: okay... i think i'll go talk to my son now. how do i look?
speaker1: beautiful.

