speaker1: you have everything, kimberly? 
speaker2: relax, dad. it's daytona, not mongolia.
speaker3: fix -a-flat? road flares?
speaker4: condoms, handcuffs, lube?
speaker4: just kidding, mr. b. don't worry, i'll keep an eye on her.
speaker3: oh, that makes me feel a lot better.
speaker2: i know this is the first time we've been apart since. but everything's gonna be okay.
speaker3: i know, honey. i just -- kimberly hugs him tighter. cutting him off.
speaker3: your mother would have been so proud of the way you've handled yourself through all of this...
speaker2: i know, dad.
speaker4: hello, the guys are waiting!

speaker1: waiting in line, is kimberly's red suv. 
speaker2: watch it!
speaker3: sorry! my fault!
speaker2: want me to drive?
speaker3: no, i'm good.

speaker1: dano, shouldn't we go back and help your mother? 
speaker2: blo w me.

speaker1: pile up! pile up! pile up! 
speaker2: christ, is this tribute to princess di day or what?

speaker1: i told you no drugs in the car! my dad will freak! 
speaker2: calm down, kimmy. it's not drugs, just weed.
speaker3: yeah, you should have specified.
speaker4: kimberly? it's dad.
speaker1: hey, dad. what's up?
speaker4: your car's leaking either transmission or brake fluid. i want you to have it checked asap at a gas station.
speaker1: you got it, dad. i'll call you if i have a problem.
speaker4: i mean it. take care of it.
speaker1: i will, dad. bye, luv you.

speaker1: um, kimberly, your dad's not gonna call like every ten minutes is he? 
speaker2: there's a cop behind us. pull into the right lane now!
speaker2: look first,
speaker1: ignore 'em.

speaker1: what the hell? no, not you. 
speaker2: what's the cop doing? did he see that?
speaker1: forget it, i'll call him myself.

speaker1: thomas speaks into his radio. 
speaker2: i was supposed to be off today.
speaker3: no biggie. drake called in sick.
speaker2: copy that. go on, sleep it off drake.

speaker1: dano nervously looks back. 
speaker2: relax, dude.
speaker3: this trip better be wor th it.
speaker4: get ready to smile, five guys per girl.
speaker3: i can live with thaaaa --
speaker2: what's your problem, ya crack baby?!

speaker1: ...couldn't keep your in check for another month? i knew this would happen when i got pregnant. 
speaker1: what'd the doctor say? i have to come in to test for stds?
speaker1: you, jorge.

speaker1: who? 
speaker2: you know, hasselhoff before he did baywatch.
speaker3: what's the chance of finding a nice mature guy once we get to daytona?
speaker4: how does a nice mature sound?
speaker3: hey, thanks for talking me into this trip. ever since my mom... i dunno, i just feel like i'm starting to live again, you know?

speaker1: the semi's grill comes right at her! 
speaker2: she screams and we --

speaker1: flight 180. you know, that plane crash with those kids from mount abraham. 
speaker2: dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
speaker1: blow me. yellow means go, kimberly.
speaker3: oh my oh my
speaker4: what is it? what are you?
speaker3: there's going to be a huge accident! everyone's gonna die. all of us! i saw it!
speaker2: that's it. my turn to drive.

speaker1: flight 180. y'know, that plane crash with those kids from mt. abraham? 
speaker2: dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
speaker1: blow me. yellow means go, kimmy.
speaker3: oh my oh my
speaker4: what is it? what are you?
speaker3: there's going to be a huge accident! everyone's gonna die, all of us, i saw it!
speaker2: that's it. my turn to drive.

speaker1: highway to hell, highway to hell. 
speaker2: for christ sakes girl, take a breath.
speaker3: taking you into an all request weekend with a classic from ac/dc.
speaker4: what the are you doing?
speaker4: five-o's coming! let's roll, man!
speaker5: christ! here he comes!
speaker1: no! we'll all die if we do!
speaker4: i told you she'd ruin everything!
speaker2: shut up, dano, just stay cool. he's just stoned.

speaker1: what's going on here? 
speaker2: there's going to be a pile up. logs. bodies everywhere. i saw it happen. it happened.
speaker1: miss, please step out of the vehicle.
speaker3: excuse me, but is there some way we could just drive around? i have a delivery.
speaker3: hey hon, you got a mysterious caller on the answering machine from planned parenthood. what's going on?
speaker4: nora watches the suv, distressed.
speaker5: what on earth are they doing?
speaker6: who am i, david blane?

speaker1: okay, quit it already. 
speaker2: the radio played the same songs, the old lady's bag broke the exact same way it did in my premonition.
speaker2: that's the truck that's going to kill everyone!
speaker3: alright miss, calm down. i just need this lane open. i need you to pull your vehicle onto the shoulder!
speaker2: you're not listening to me! you have to do something!
speaker4: arrest this whack-job, wouldja? some of us have lives, y'know.
speaker2: why won't anyone listen to me?
speaker3: i'm not going to tell you to calm down again --

speaker1: you couldn't keep your in check for a month?! 
speaker2: great, now i'm really gonna be late.
speaker3: l.a. 51, i need assistance and requesting paramedics for a major t.a. at --

speaker1: not to sound insensitive, but how much longer is this going to take? 
speaker2: if i don't get back to my classroom soon, the kids'll tear the room apart.
speaker3: those poor people. to think it would've been us if not for...
speaker4: tell me again how it started.
speaker5: like i said, it was like i was there. i remember everything. the sounds of the crashes, the smells, the look on shaina's face...
speaker4: do you remember what triggered it all?
speaker5: the log truck...and everybody i guess. everyone was driving like a maniac. and somehow i knew something horrible was going to happen, even before it did.
speaker4: you knew? you just mean a hunch, right? a bad vibe, maybe?
speaker4: the other drivers stare at kimberly.
speaker5: more than that. all the songs on the radio were about car crashes. some kid's banging toy cars together. she was dialing her cell phone with her headset on. his car was leaking oil all over the road.
speaker6: hey, don't be knockin' the chevette.
speaker5: billboards about accidents. kids yelling "pile up" for no reason. it all felt...just wrong. just like...
speaker4: like what?
speaker5: i know this sounds crazy...but you all heard about flight 180, right? the kid who got off the plane?
speaker4: you mean alex browning.
speaker5: ...my premonition was just like his.
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: oh, you must have read about that kid who had a dream about a plane crash so he got his buddies off the plane? then the thing blew up just like in the dream?
speaker3: maybe...
speaker2: but this is where it starts to get freaky. so a month goes by, everything seems cool, but then the survivors start dying one boy one. 'cause when your number's up, it's up, right? some people said death itself started coming for them, hunting down every last one, until they were all dead.
speaker4: well, not quite all of them. clear rivers checked herself into a padded room at stoneybrook.
speaker5: you do believe me, don't you?
speaker7: officer burke? could i see you in here?

speaker1: look, you weren't there. it was weird. she knew that log truck was gonna cause an accident, she knew. never mind. 
speaker2: i thought we we re finished with this this is police work, not the psychic hot line.
speaker3: but if i was never meant to pull over, then we all should have died in the pile up.
speaker4: which means death could be coming for us.
speaker2: way to console the witnesses burke.
speaker2: you got 'em thinking death is after them? they're the luckiest sons o' on the planet. get this guy evan shaeffer; yesterday the kid wins the lotto and today some looney b locks traffic and he avoids the worst pile up in years. i should be so unlucky.

speaker1: you're all certifiable, you know that? i can't believe i've been listening to this crap. come on, tim, let's go outside. 
speaker2: jeez, mom, stop trippin'.
speaker3: look lady, we're just yankin' your chain.
speaker4: yeah, you're acting like we all just got the diff'rent strokes curse or something.
speaker1: what's wrong with you people?
speaker5: kimberly...
speaker5: can i take her home?
speaker6: sure, you can all go.

speaker1: first i'm stuck with jury duty, now this nonsense. 
speaker2: yeah, i hate to love and leave ya, but i've been over this x-files since the sixth season.

speaker1: i know it's crazy, but i'm really scared for the others. i've got this terrible feeling. 
speaker2: what feeling?
speaker1: that it's not over yet.
speaker2: don 't worry. everything will be fine, you'll see.

speaker1: ooooh, i see it now. your future... a transfer to another department. 
speaker2: you've made your point.
speaker1: good. cause we just got some new info and i don't ne ed you getting freaky on me.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: evan shaeffer's dead. guess he wasn't as lucky as we thought.

speaker1: route 18 was backed up for almost nine hours today when a record breaking pile up... 
speaker1: ...killed an estimated 18 people. emergency crews spent hours sifting through the wreckage.

speaker1: the camera of a highway patrol car managed to catch this shocking footage -- 
speaker2: my lord...
speaker3: don't. i have to see this.
speaker3: mr. burroughs reluctantly keeps the newscast on.

speaker1: whoohoo! you see that right there? that's my car right there! oh that's dope. 
speaker2: in other news, a freak accident took the life of a lotto winner.

speaker1: come on, tim, lights out already. 
speaker2: mom?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: you think... you think those guys were b.s.-ing us today or what?

speaker1: oh, please. some people just need some serious rewiring, that's all. 
speaker1: get some sleep.

speaker1: it's okay, dad. i'm not ten anymore. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm just so happy that you're safe.
speaker1: i love you too, dad. goodnight.
speaker2: you know, after your mother died...
speaker2: there were so many times i didn't think i could last another day. i can't even tell you some of the
speaker2: things i th ought about.
speaker1: i used to have those feelings, too. but that's when i'd think of mom. her strength...and courage. and i'd pray that maybe i'd grow up to be as brave as she was. and the bad thoughts would go away.

speaker1: ...at the request of the patient, you are to relinquish any sharp objects such as nail files, pencils, pens, safety pins, bobby pins, no matches, lighters, belts, belt buckles, earrings, chokers, shoelaces... 
speaker1: ...paper clips, watches, food, drinks, keys, poisons, pills and medications. you have a cell phone on you?
speaker1: then i think we're all done.
speaker2: wait. is she...dangerous or something?
speaker1: no honey, but she expects you are.
speaker2: how long are you going to keep her locked up this way?
speaker1: depends on her, i guess. she's voluntary.

speaker1: clear rivers? 
speaker2: kimberly burroughs, eh? what do you want?
speaker1: i thought...i thought you might be able to help me.
speaker2: yeah, how?
speaker1: i had a premonition about the route 18 pile up. .. i saved some people.
speaker2: nice work. maybe if you're real lucky, you'll wind up in here with me. but i doubt you'll survive that long.
speaker1: it's not just about me. someone i saved died last night in a freak accident. what if the others are in danger, too?

speaker1: well, if you put them on the list, they're already up. 
speaker2: what list?
speaker1: death's list. the precise order you're going to die in.
speaker1: the survivors of flight 180 died in the exact order they were originally meant to die in the plane crash. that was death's original design.
speaker2: exact order? then i'm next! i was meant to die with my friends, so i'm next!
speaker1: but you said someone else died last night. that means death skipped past you. someone must have intervened. sometime yesterday you must have nearly died, but someone saved you.
speaker2: officer burke pulled me away from the crash that killed my friends.
speaker1: congratufuckinglations. that makes you last to go. but don't worry, once the others are dead, it'll come back for you. always does.
speaker2: that still doesn't make sense. you said you die in the same order you were originally meant to. but evan shaeffer died last in my premonition, not first.
speaker2: clear seems very disturbed by that.
speaker1: it's moving backwards? are you sure?

speaker1: yes. in my premonition that nora woman and her kid died first, then evan and then...my friends. 
speaker2: backwards...that's new.
speaker2: that's good. get all your tears out now, you'll need your eyes. for the signs.
speaker1: signs?
speaker2: if you have the same power as alex, you'll be seeing signs soon. when you see anything creepy or ominous, an in-your- face irony kinda thing? don't ignore it. it usually means the difference between life and death.
speaker1: the songs on the radio. but wait. i don't understand. why is this even happening to me?

speaker1: that's what alex used to ask himself right up until... 
speaker2: it's obvious you know what you're talking about. you beat it. you have to help us.
speaker1: i didn't beat it; i hid from it. if you were smart you'd put a down payment on a burial plot and say goodbye to the dog, because what little life you have left is over as you know it. don't make new friends, don't fall in love, and don't ever bother trying to save others. that's the worst killer of them all.
speaker2: how can you say that? what kind of monster are you?
speaker1: my family is dead. my friends are dead. and alex...
speaker1: and yes, that's the blade of a ceiling fan in his head.
speaker2: know what? i think you're a coward. i think you hide out in here because you're too bitter and selfish to care about another
speaker2: living soul. in my opinion, you're already dead.

speaker1: i tried calling last night but your father -- 
speaker2: evan shaeffer's dead.
speaker1: i know. i've gotten calls all morning from everyone who was on the onramp. we're all meeting at my apartment tonight.
speaker2: then you believe all this?? that death is working off a list?
speaker1: i didn't. until i was dispatched to clean up one of the flight 180 survivors.
speaker2: clean up? i don't...
speaker3: did you see that??
speaker3: thomas, concerned for her, saw nothing.
speaker2: pigeons... it's a sign! if clear's right about the order, then nora and tim are going to be attacke d by pigeons!
speaker1: i'm not following you --
speaker2: they're next on the list. we have to find them.

speaker1: you think the tooth fairy's gonna come tonight? i'm thinkin' like fifteen bucks. 
speaker2: nice try, kiddo.
speaker1: mom!
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: sure hon. i'm fine. let's shake it, we're late.

speaker1: a photo of eva, "lotto winner killed by ladder". 
speaker2: not so much.

speaker1: turn around. the cleaning woman said they're at the dentist's. 
speaker2: hold on.

speaker1: i'm a little disappointed, tim. does your mom know you've been smoking? 
speaker1: yeah, that'll have to be filled.
speaker1: every day at the same time. now this'll only sting for a moment.
speaker1: open big. wiiiiider...
speaker1: how the do they expect me to... would you rather have the laughing gas?
speaker1: jean? i need you in here. jean??!

speaker1: open big. wiiiiiider. 
speaker2: racing to the medical complex throughout.

speaker1: nora's not coming. she refuses to leave her son. 
speaker2: we have to tell her she's in danger!
speaker1: i did. and right now, i don't think she cares.

speaker1: it's happening again. it's 
speaker1: happening again. i hoped we'd get there and they'd be okay, that clear rivers was full of and evan's death was just a freak accident...
speaker1: but we're all going to die. we can't stop it. it's just a matter of time. i'm so scared.
speaker2: i am too. but you can use that fear. it'll sharpen your instincts. keep you alert fro signs. it's the only way you'll be able to sav e the others...and me.
speaker2: i know you didn't ask for any of this, kimberly. but i don't think you have it in you to quit either.
speaker1: clear/thomas. thomas/clear.
speaker1: the second one just dies. a 16 year old kid.
speaker3: i hope you're ready for this.

speaker1: this is cheery. 
speaker2: who is this guy, anyway?
speaker3: a mortician. he seemed to know a of a lot more about death than he ever told us.
speaker2: should we knock?
speaker3: he probably already knows we're coming.

speaker1: oh my that's evan shaeffer. clear, however, seems to expect nothing less. 
speaker2: come to... pick my brain?
speaker2: flesh and bone require 1,600 degrees for cremation. gold, prosthetics and other metals must be removed before the final --
speaker3: just a simple question and we'll leave you alone with your new friend.
speaker2: fire away.
speaker3: how do you cheat death once and for all?
speaker2: dead. but still fresh.
speaker3: look, we drove a long way to get here. so if you happen to know how to get this death monkey off our backs, it sure would be swell if you told us.
speaker2: for what purpose? you seek a back way out of a room with but one door. you can't cheat death; there
speaker2: are no escapes.
speaker3: you told me death has a distinct design, a blueprint, unalterable. but alex and i cheated death not once, but dozens of times. if the design is flawed, it can be beaten.
speaker2: such fire in you now. people are always most alive just before they die. don't you think?
speaker3: it can be beaten. and you know it.
speaker2: some say that there is a balance to everything. an equilibrium that is the connective tissue of the universe. they say that for every lif e there is a death, and for every death a life...
speaker2: solus novus anima licet evinco mortis; only new life can defeat death. the list of life is forever set by the divine plan, the guiding hand that plots the course of the universe, down to its tiniest element s.
speaker2: the list accounts for every life; from the dawn of man to the great apocalypse. but the introduction of life that was not meant to be, a soul forbidden to roam the earth, that could invalidate death's list, shatter its very existence.

speaker1: what the does that mean? 
speaker2: to figure that out you'll have to follow the sign s.
speaker2: but be warned. to disrupt the grand design is to unravel the tapestry of the universe. when you pull all the threads apart, you may find yourself hanging from them.
speaker3: one last question. why is death working backwards this time?
speaker2: sorry, time's up.

speaker1: new life defeats death? follow the signs? where the did you find that guy? 
speaker2: yeah, i thought he was supposed to be helpful.
speaker3: he was. if we can use your ability to see the signs, we can cheat death long enough to figure out what "new life" means. i know, it worries me that i
speaker3: understand him.
speaker3: what the are you thinking?
speaker4: i'm thinkin', my junk, bee yatch.

speaker1: you're strong. do you hear me? you're a warrior. nothing scares you. in fact you happen to be the single most powerful woman on earth. now what did you see? 
speaker2: i was driving a white van. it must've gone out of control because it crashed into a lake and i drowned. it was...horrible.
speaker1: you were there?
speaker2: i can practically taste the water in my throat. and something else.
speaker1: then it wasn't just a sign. it was a premonition?
speaker3: remember the onramp? there was a pregnant woman in a white delivery van.
speaker1: holy he said "only new life can defeat death." if she gives birth to a baby that was never meant to be born, a brand new soul that was never part of death's design...
speaker2: it throws the entire death list out of whack. and a new list has to be rewritten rom scratch. we all start over with a clean slate.
speaker3: it sounds all well and good, but
speaker3: what if we're wrong?
speaker1: please, what else could it mean?
speaker2: so if you give us the pregnant lady's number, we can warn her about the lake and she'll live long enough to have the baby.
speaker1: so let's do it.
speaker3: i don't have her number. she was never interviewed. she took off right after the accident.
speaker2: how are we going to find her? there must be thousands of white vans in this state.
speaker3: hey, i'm a police officer, remember?

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: i, uh...sorry.
speaker1: i know, i know. we need my eyes.
speaker3: it's all right. i'll take watch.

speaker1: i'm okay. just caught me by surprise. put it back on. 
speaker2: make sure all these people will be at the meeting tonight.
speaker3: taken care of.

speaker1: there it is. 
speaker2: got it.
speaker3: i don't get it. why is everything happening so fast? after flight 180. a month went by before anyone died. and now five people are dead in less than a day.
speaker2: here we go. the vehicle's a delivery van registered to jorge and isabella cruz. and christ, there's almost a dozen domestic disturbance complaints on these two.
speaker3: we need to hurry. they all get up and leave.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i'm officer burke. i'm looking for an isabella cruz.
speaker1: shut up!!!
speaker2: are you jorge cruz?
speaker1: maybe. what's this about?
speaker2: may we come in?
speaker1: no. what's this about?

speaker1: it's about your wife, isabella. now is she here? 
speaker2: no. i'm alone.
speaker1: look, pal, it's probably nothing. but i need to see -- jorge is already closing the door.
speaker2: forget it. you'll need a warrant. i know, i'm a lawyer.
speaker2: stop!!! you can't go in there!!!
speaker3: we never meant to hurt you isa...you're not isabella!
speaker2: i'm going to sue your ass!
speaker4: whose blood is that on the floor?

speaker1: mine, you the dog went nuts this afternoon. now arrest her! 
speaker2: where's isabella? did you finally kill her you wife beater?
speaker1: we had a fight. some things got broken, the dog went crazy, she left me. wouldn't say where she was going.
speaker3: what was the fight about?
speaker1: take a guess.
speaker3: does she have a cell phone? a way we can contact her?
speaker1: she did.
speaker4: we're wasting time with this piece of let's just get to the meeting.
speaker1: hey, when you find her, tell her the kid's half mine.
speaker4: we can only pray it doesn't come out retarded.

speaker1: christ. i wrote to management two weeks ago about these friggin' bumpers. 
speaker2: damn, is that dogshit?

speaker1: does anybody have a valium? 
speaker2: you'll want to take -- nora pops it in her mouth.
speaker2: -- half of that.
speaker3: any word yet on the dodge van?

speaker1: so that would mean... i'm next. 
speaker2: nobody's next. this is crazy. first death's stalking us and now premonitions?
speaker3: this can't be happening. my career's at a peak, i finally met a cute guy, i just bought a new house...
speaker4: just shut the up and maybe you'll live.
speaker5: you're not next, nora. nobody has to be next. that's the point. last time, we didn't plan. we weren't organized. now we can help each other.
speaker5: think what would have happened if kimberly had been able to warn you with the word pigeons...
speaker6: the point is, as long as you know what to beware of, you have a fighting chance. it can be beaten. if i call you and say subway, get to a high rise fast. a place where no subway could possibly go, get it?
speaker4: why the did i ever get on route 18 in the first place?

speaker1: anyone read today's paper? the article on evan shaeffer? 
speaker1: the only reason he was on route 18 was because he own the lottery and had to collect the winnings.
speaker2: that lucky bastard.
speaker1: what about the rest of you? kimberly, you were driving to daytona. was route 18 your first choice?
speaker3: the new freeway was faster, but route 18 was the way my mom used to take, so...
speaker4: route 18 is drake's assignment, but he called in sick so i got... drake's never sick.
speaker5: i was my first day of jury duty.
speaker6: jury duty? that's randomly selected by social security numbers.
speaker1: random, sure.
speaker6: what, you think death planned for each of us to die in the pile up weeks ago? you're nuts.
speaker2: last july i dialed a wrong number and got a radio station by accident. they asked me what number means "good luck" in jewish.

speaker1: eighteen. and it's "hebrew". 
speaker2: anyway, i guessed it right and won these.
speaker2: the best way to get to yankee stadium is route 18.
speaker3: i don't know what's weirder, the dialing a wrong number part or that death would set you up nine months in advance.
speaker4: whoa, nine months?
speaker3: are you thinking what i'm thinking?

speaker1: yes, i'd like to report a domestic squabble - my name? isabella cruz why, does it matter? i'm at the super 8 motel. yes, i own a white van. so what? just get over here. 
speaker2: i'm sorry, dad, we're having a hard time with shaina's eulogy. i'll stay here at virginia's tonight and see you tomorrow. i love you too.

speaker1: remember everyone, just because kimberly's got the power doesn't mean we're not all capable of seeing signs to some extent. 
speaker2: it's like forrest gump.
speaker1: should have seen that coming. the institution's made me soft.
speaker3: if death has got such a hard-on for you, maybe you should get the away from us.
speaker4: we need her. she's the only one who's dealt with this before,
speaker1: we're all going to have to open our eyes from now on. look out for each other. sleep in shifts. and we've got to safeproof this deathtrap.

speaker1: screw this. i'm going outside for a smoke. 
speaker2: you think you should? it's not safe out there.
speaker1: so? nora's gotta bite it before me anyway, right?
speaker3: where are you going, nora? you okay?
speaker4: four years ago my husband died. now tim. there's nothing left for me. kimberly stops pouring liquor down the drain.
speaker3: don't say that. once you lose hope, it's already too late.
speaker4: if it's my time to go, to be in heaven with my family, then i can accept that.
speaker3: you can't give up. don't accept death's plan. trust me, you can fight this. if we can just survive long enough until that baby is born, we can --
speaker3: nora looks more resolute than ever.
speaker4: if you'll excuse me, i have a funeral to prepare.
speaker5: yeah, why am i listening to a girl who just got out of the nut house?
speaker3: seeing you die once was enough for me.
speaker5: whatever. i control my life, not fate.
speaker6: i'll be sure to put that on your tombstone.
speaker7: be careful. and even if you don't believe, give this to nora.

speaker1: muzak plays ac/dc's highway to hell. 
speaker2: going down, right?

speaker1: um, by the way, your shoe's untied. 
speaker1: probably for you, anyway.

speaker1: officer burke? i can't hear... 
speaker2: what is it? what's wrong?

speaker1: let me go let me go! 
speaker2: oh, watch it, you've caught your uh...
speaker3: goodness gracious, darling, let me help you with...
speaker4: you alright, nora?
speaker1: my someone please let me out of this --

speaker1: ...no escapes my ass. i control my fate. i die on my terms, hear me reaper cockscuker?! 
speaker2: what the are you...?
speaker1: ain't going out like that. on my terms!
speaker2: just take it easy!

speaker1: kimberly breaths a sigh of relief. 
speaker2: you don't keep it loaded?
speaker3: maybe they were all duds.
speaker4: six in a row? never. impossible. that's like ...winning the lottery.
speaker5: it wasn't his turn to die.
speaker6: can we find the pregnant woman, please?

speaker1: um, clear? i'm sorry...about before. i... 
speaker2: your entire world view just went out the window. i couldn't expect a religious conversation overnight. we'll get through this. i promise.

speaker1: can i ask you a question? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: when i die. is it gonna hurt?
speaker2: i...i don't know.
speaker1: and you're gonna die after me, right?
speaker2: i guess so.
speaker1: would you take these? and if i die... could you throw all my drugs out? paraphernalia, porno, you know... anything that would break my mom's heart.
speaker3: a one very off ms. isabella cruz is being detained up in greenwood. let's finish this thing.

speaker1: is this safe, guys? i mean, someone in this car is about to get whacked. do the rest of us really feel like sitting next to him? or her. hopefully her. 
speaker2: guys, let's not panic. isabella's safe.
speaker3: how do you know?
speaker2: you said she was going to drive into a lake. how can she when she's in protective custody?

speaker1: what do you mean "grand theft auto?" this is insane. 
speaker2: hopefully the district judge can straighten it all out by monday mor ning.
speaker1: jorge. when i get out of here i'm going to sue his cheating off.
speaker3: oh my
speaker2: are you kidding me?! oh, man.

speaker1: damn, they always stick me with the clunker. 
speaker2: take my van!

speaker1: here's what i don't get. for nine months, death does all this to make sure i win these tickets and end up on route 18 at exactly the right time for the pile up... 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: but why single me out? what am i in the great scheme of things? you'd think i stepped off flight 180 or something... weird, man.
speaker3: you want weird? last year, my partner and i were heading out for the graveyard shift. a call comes in about a train wreck and frank decides to let me handle it alone.
speaker3: frank died that night in a shootout. i'd be dead too if that call had come in just ten seconds later.
speaker2: i got that beat. so like, last may, i was supposed to stay at this cheesy bed and breakfast in pennsylvania. there was a major gas leak no one knew about and all the guests suffocated during the night.
speaker1: yeah, so what happened?
speaker2: i never mad it. the greyhound bus i was on splattered some chick all over the road and we had to stop.
speaker4: was that in mt. abraham?
speaker2: yeah. how did you know?
speaker4: that bus you were on? it killed terry mathers. she was supposed to die on flight 180.
speaker2: i'm not sure i--
speaker3: the call about the train wreck that saved my life? that was the night i scraped up billy hitchcock.
speaker1: who?
speaker5: another kid from flight 180.

speaker1: promise me...i won't have the 
speaker1: baby...in this van.
speaker1: get around it!!!

speaker1: remember the theater in paris that collapsed last year, killed everyone inside? 
speaker1: i had tickets to go, but one day i'm in paris, trippin' on acid, sippin' lattes an' such, and this dude gets whacked by a falling sign.
speaker2: carter.
speaker1: freaked me out so bad i hid in a shopping cart for four hours.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: a little over a year ago, my mother and i went to the mall. i was supposed to meet her outside, but i got caught up watching some news report about some kid who committed suicide. i kept thinking, "how can you strangle yourself in a bathtub?" that's retarded.
speaker2: it felt wrong. and yet... there were gunshots outside and i ran... some kids tried to jack her car. she fought them off - she was a fighter - and they killed her.
speaker2: after the funeral i had this overwhelming feeling that it should have been me. i figured that's how everyone must feel. but i guess i was right.

speaker1: it's all starting to come together. when alex got us off flight 180, it didn't just change our lives. it 
speaker1: affected everyone and everything we've come into contact with ever since.
speaker2: i'm not sure i understand.
speaker1: being alive after our time caused an outward ripple - a rift in death's design.
speaker2: so if you never got off the plane, none of us would be ali ve in the first place.
speaker1: that's why death is working backwards. it's tying up all the loose ends, sealing the rift once and for all â­
speaker3: a thick retread sheers itself onto the pavement.

speaker1: please. it's not going to wait. 
speaker2: i've got to stop and help those people.
speaker1: do you want to deliver this baby?

speaker1: not my time. amazing... 
speaker2: is everybody alright?
speaker1: he can't breathe! he can't breathe!
speaker3: oh my eugene!?

speaker1: someone call for help! 
speaker2: i can't move my leg! please get me out of here before it explodes!
speaker3: watch it, dude!
speaker4: help us, we need help over here!
speaker5: i don't smell any gas. and none's dripping, either.
speaker2: stop that! i still need this foot, thank you.

speaker1: be careful with that, check the gages on the regulator and be mindful of overdoses. oh, watch for potholes and puddles. 
speaker1: look, i made him a promise --
speaker2: sorry. there's no room.
speaker3: get that over here! move move move!
speaker4: excuse me, hot soup coming through.

speaker1: one more thing. watch out for power lines. 
speaker1: we have to contact isabella now!

speaker1: where's the cell phone clear gave you? 
speaker2: i dunno. i think i gave it to eugene back at your place.
speaker1: it. we have to call the greenwood police station and warn isabella.
speaker3: you doing alright in there?
speaker4: my legs are starting to cramp up. and why am i so thirsty? does anyone have any fiji?
speaker4: christ, you wanna give me a heads up next time, pal?

speaker1: speaks to another cop who clicks off his radio. 
speaker2: she's at phelps memorial. they're prepping her to give birth right now.
speaker3: where's that?
speaker2: a few miles up the road. near the docks.

speaker1: damn, can't you be quieter with that thing? 
speaker2: sure, i'll just set it to the "quiet" mode.

speaker1: what about that? 
speaker2: how you doing in there, hero?
speaker3: i guess it could be worse.
speaker4: so let's go...where the is rory?!

speaker1: get back! 
speaker2: i didn't mean to do it - i didn't know.
speaker3: it wasn't his turn. and it's not my turn.
speaker3: give me the keys to your truck.
speaker2: anything you want. anything. i wish i knew. i didn't...

speaker1: no. if anyone dies from a crash now, it'll be me. but i can't die if eugene and isabella are still alive. i'm last on death's list. 
speaker2: are you crazy? what makes you think you'd survive?
speaker1: what happened when eugene tried to kill himself out of turn?
speaker2: six duds in a row.
speaker1: and when it was rory's turn to die, and thomas was in the way?
speaker3: that branch fell and saved my life. you're right, death's maintaining the order.
speaker1: let's pray that isabella's still alive.

speaker1: she's going to have to stop moving if i'm going to -- the nurse sneezes. 
speaker1: it, keep her still!
speaker2: sorry, doctor.

speaker1: this makes no sense. isabella was supposed to crash her van into a lake. could we have altered her destiny when we had her arrested? 
speaker2: i don't think so. alex's premonitions happened exactly as he saw them no matter how much we
speaker2: tried to change it.
speaker3: then the only way to survive is to get to the hospital and protect eugene and isabella for as long as we can.
speaker2: if only alex and i had done that with the others, alex might still be...
speaker3: um, kimberly? this is a neighborhood. you may wanna slow it down.
speaker1: don't worry. nothing can happen to us.
speaker3: i wasn't worried about us.

speaker1: what did you see? what am i looking for? 
speaker2: no, it's not here. this one was different. more like the pile up and the van going into the lake.
speaker1: another premonition?
speaker2: yes. i was in a hospital. there was screaming... a nurse was choking me. i couldn't tell wh at she looked like, but the name tag was right in my face. kalarjian.
speaker3: kalarjian?
speaker2: i think a nurse named kalarjian is going to choke isabella to death!

speaker1: quite complaining. i got burnt babies in the children's ward braver than you. 
speaker1: don't bother. you won't be talking for at least a month. think you can handle that, jabberjaw?
speaker1: don't worry. everyone learns to love me once they get used to my sense of humor, okay?

speaker1: shouldn't we pull over? 
speaker2: no time. keep going. i wouldn't know how to explain any of this anyway.
speaker1: oh come on.
speaker3: a busy six-lane intersection.
speaker1: what do you want me to do?

speaker1: speed up. 
speaker2: yeah, 'em. no offense.
speaker1: be alive, isabella, please be alive.

speaker1: ...ironically impaled through the head as a result of an emergency airbag deploying. 
speaker2: need a pen? sure. if you like, i'll bring crosswords for you, too.
speaker3: ...police have speculated that one of the deaths may have been
speaker3: narcotics related and urge children to stay away from d rugs.
speaker1: good advice, sue. and stay in school. up next, johnny showers has the weather...
speaker2: jeez, it's freezing in here.

speaker1: what are you doing? the henzels are still waiting for you in the children's ward -- 
speaker2: right, right, right. gregory's big day.
speaker1: and mrs. dempsey in hydrotherapy can't feel her legs.

speaker1: isabella cruz. what room's she in? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i can't give out that info unless you're a relative.
speaker1: i'm her sister.
speaker2: i'll have to see your id, ms. cruz.

speaker1: security? 
speaker2: listen to me, isabella, i need you to stop pushing.
speaker3: what's wrong? is the baby all right?
speaker2: it's a breach. if i can't reverse
speaker2: it, we may need to do a caesarian.
speaker4: maybe i should step outside.
speaker5: running down the corridor.
speaker6: code blue in delivery room 6. code blue!

speaker1: just where do you think you're going? 
speaker2: almost there. i see the head...

speaker1: what are you doing in here? get the out! right now! 
speaker2: isabella, look down and see your son.

speaker1: a guard grabbed me before i could find eugene. 
speaker2: don't sweat it. it's over.
speaker1: she had the baby?
speaker3: new life defeats death. we've done it. death has to rewrite the list. we're safe.

speaker1: looking up a the eeg machine. flatlined! 
speaker2: kimberly! are you okay?!

speaker1: are you okay? you just face planted! 
speaker2: i know how it feels to be dead.
speaker3: what did you see?
speaker2: i was dead. and came back to life.
speaker1: but it's over. isabella's baby was the key. you saw her die and everything, right?
speaker2: i don't...what if i made a mistake?
speaker1: impossible. she was on the onramp.

speaker1: i'm not sure... i don't think isabella was ever destined to die in the pile -up. 
speaker2: then what's the premonition of the lake supposed to mean?
speaker3: can you remember anything about it?

speaker1: ...the same hands from the van. 
speaker2: it's you kimberly. the premonitions are about you.
speaker1: no! it can't be.
speaker2: i have to save eugene!

speaker1: eugene? are you in there? 
speaker2: eugene strains to hear through the thick door.
speaker1: can you hear me? i'm coming in . an intense wave of relief washes over eugene.

speaker1: make way, make way lovebirds. 
speaker2: oh no...
speaker1: thanks hon, the henzels are going crazy for this thing.

speaker1: nurse kalarjian... 
speaker2: doctor kalarjian. excuse me, please.

speaker1: oh my that's it. the lake. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you can't cheat destiny. i know what i have to do to save us. i have to die.
speaker2: that's crazy. you can't give up now. we can still fight this thing.

speaker1: she's back! 
speaker2: five cc's of narcodon. i want her stabilized and prepped for icu.

speaker1: kimberly?! 
speaker2: welcome back. we did it. for real.
speaker1: i know. i can feel it too.

speaker1: my this is delicious. i can't believe i used to be a vegan. 
speaker2: so what's the deal, thomas? three months and you still haven't asked my daughter out on a date.
speaker3: what's wrong with a platonic relationship?
speaker4: platonic my ass. that's for ugly women.
speaker1: for sake, leave him alone, dad.
speaker3: yeah, don't make me cite you for harassment.
speaker4: oh please. i'm not hurting anyone. besides, if you can beat death,
speaker4: what's he got to worry about me for?
speaker4: you know, you still never explained to us how you did it.
speaker3: well, technically when we died, we gave death what it wanted. and by the time we were revived, it had already moved on to graver pastures.
speaker5: you know, i'm having the greatest day?
speaker1: food's great too, mrs. gibbons.
speaker5: our...pleasure. so, ready for the back-to -school season? nyu, right?
speaker1: three short glorious weeks away.
speaker5: sounds wonderful. i wish i were going myself.
speaker4: you may want to think twice about letting her live in the village, bob. our eldest daughter moved there and came back with piercings all over her face. among other places.
speaker6: dad used to call her the pincushion. from hellraiser.

speaker1: dad, you had the spatula last, right? 
speaker2: sure, here.
speaker3: brian looks like he's having fun.
speaker2: sure does. owes it to that friend of yours, in a way.
speaker3: how's that?
speaker2: well, brian was nearly hit by an ambulance the day...but your friend rory pulled him back at the last second.
speaker4: you never told me that, peter. boy, that was lucky.

