THE SATELLITE VIEW: as the mercedes closes with the sheep: 
DEVEREAUX: slow down.

DEVEREAUX: nobody knows you're here. not your people. not even my president. you'll die here alone and be buried unknown -- barring some miracle. 
DEVEREAUX: -- god? god? what you eat. whether you eat. sleep. pain. absence of pain. i decide. i make the day and the night. even the way you got here -- a hand that reached down from the sky? god? i am your new

TINA: brooklyn south issued a code blue less than two minutes ago. they think hostages are involved. 
FRANK: black-and-whites on the scene?
TINA: setting up a perimeter now.
FRANK: residence or business?
TINA: a bus.

FRANK: on the way. 
HUB: negotiator?
TINA: rolling.
HUB: bomb squad?

HUB: how soon can we get there --? 
FRANK: in this traffic, maybe tomorrow.

HUB: -- what?! 
FRANK: -- that's what they're telling me.
HUB: -- and nobody's hurt?
HUB: thank

TAPED VOICE: -- our first and last warning. 
TAPED VOICE: we expect our demand to be met. there will be no negotiation. that is all.
TINA: demand for what? you hear any demand?
MIKE: you sure this is all they got?
SUSSMAN: that's it.
FRANK: maybe it's performance art.
HUB: -- okay. blue paint. voice-altering technology --
FRANK: -- available from the sharper image catalogue.
SUSSMAN: last i looked they weren't offering exploding paint bombs.
HUB: still, the rhetoric sounds political. militia?
TINA: not their style.
HUB: frank --?
FRANK: jihad isn't known for their sense of humor, and hamas is raising so much money here, why queer their deal?
TINA: anyway, isn't green the color of islam, not blue?
FRANK: -- and, excuse me, but why do we immediately assume they're arabs?
HUB: i want a composite of the suspects in circulation by the end of business today. tina, you cross-check it against the mainframe. mike, have you got the lab analysis on the paint?
MIKE: not yet...
HUB: -- see if any was sold in quantity the last month. danny --
HUB: -- find out what stop these guys got on the bus, maybe there's a witness.
FRANK: hub... i think we're all eager to give up our weekends on this. it just occurs to me, has anybody even committed a crime here? i mean, assault with a deadly color?
HUB: here's what i don't like. they know explosives. they know our response time. they put in a call and walk.
FRED: excuse me, sir. i think you should see this. came in on the fax.
HUB: release him? him who? who are we holding?
TINA: marv albert?
SUSSMAN: mcveigh? sheik what's-his-name from the trade center.
FRANK: -- omar abdel rahman...
FRED: the hamas guy got released in april.
FRANK: under protest.
HUB: why be coy about it?
SUSSMAN: you think it's phony?
TINA: hub, somebody's flashing a government badge over at the warehouse where they're working on the bus. our tech guys want to know if we're cooperating with any other agencies on this thing.

AGENT ROSE: -- she's looking for wiring signatures on the device and asking for copies of any latent prints we've managed to lift. 
HUB: -- agency?
AGENT ROSE: smells like it. turns out she's also been talking to some of the passengers.

HUB: hi. 
WOMAN: hi, there.
HUB: special agent anthony hubbard. fbi.
WOMAN: oh, i've been trying to liaise with you all day. my name is elise kraft, national security council. she offers her hand. hub doesn't take it yet.
HUB: -- and you've been trying to "liaise" with me all day? did you think of trying the phone book, elise? we have fourteen lines, that's not counting the unlisted ones.
ELISE: hi, i'm elise kraft, national security council.
HUB: and i'm colin powell. what exactly do you people want with my bus.
ELISE: we're all on the same team here, agent hubbard.
HUB: who exactly is "we" on this particular team, elise?
ELISE: it's never the question that's indiscreet, only the answer.
HUB: tell you what, you send me an official inter-agency request for cooperation on this and i'll give you copies of everything we come up with. otherwise, get your on out of here before you contaminate my crime scene any more than you already have.
ELISE: there's no reason to be nasty.
HUB: you think this is nasty? in case you haven't heard. the cia has no charter to operate domestically. which puts you in violation of federal law.
ELISE: not according to the cooperation agreement, special order 12333 -- i suggest you reread the paragraph on sharing information. i happen to be well within my authority.
HUB: special order 12333 refers to domestic terrorism. you got something you want to "share" with me? us being teammates and all?
ELISE: unfortunately, not yet. but as soon as i do, i'll --
HUB: -- get back to me, yeah, i know. here's what i'm gonna do. i'm gonna have a couple my "teammates" here you back to wherever you came from. and then i'm gonna go back to the office and wait for that official cooperation request. okay by you?
ELISE: swell.
HUB: nice meeting you, elise. is that elise with an "e" or an "a"?
ELISE: nice meeting you, too, special agent hubbard.

TEACHER: "make me know that which i have become ignorant of; and make me recite it in the hours of the night and the day; and make it an argument for me o thou sustainer of all the worlds!" ameen! 
ALL: ameen. later --
TINA: ...nice, wasn't it?
HUB: very.
TINA: you ever gonna stop by, pick up your things?
DANNY: -- he doing her?
MIKE: some detective you are. they stopped.
FRED: really? i wonder if she likes white guys.
DANNY: i wonder if she likes bald guys.
HUB: you must be so proud...
NAJIBA: small children, small worries. big children --
FRANK: -- big orthodontia bills. someday, you'll understand.
FRANK: where we going?
HUB: you're staying with your family. i'm back in the morning.

INS OFFICIAL: -- all in small bills. so we figure, smurf, right? then i think, considering the gentleman's nationality, plus where he's been recently, we better call frank. 
FRANK: -- who's trying to score points with his boss, bigtime.
HUB: has he broken any laws?
INS OFFICIAL: no, sir. he's twenty bucks under the $10,000 limit.
FRANK: not anymore.

UNIFORMED OFFICIAL: ...so, kahlil, you're saying this is an inheritance? somebody died and you're bringing them the money? 
KAHLIL: no, no... dhouri.

FRANK: ...he means, "dowry." 
HUB: check out his neck.
FRANK: the tabac. sssssss... the territories.
HUB: put him in play.

HUB: -- on the van wyck... no, not yet. -- what are we in? 
FRANK: a '97 contour. on my visa. back home, the security services'd be up this guy's with a poker, but what do we do, we let him go.
HUB: ...six teams on the ground, at least... well, pull 'em off the un... stay back...
FRANK: not my first date, hub. he's taking the bqe. looks like it's brooklyn.
HUB: i want husbands and wives, i want baby carriages, and no brooks brothers.
FRANK: you're micro-managing.
HUB: -- and find me a judge i can work with. we want sound on this guy... damn'... i'm losing you... and bring us a radio.
FRANK: i get reimbursed for this, right?

FRANK: twelve bucks in gaza. 
HUB: america's the place to be if you're a terrorist. fred's hovering. patsy, take over...
HUB: ...tell her to watch out for reflections.
FRANK: i got the judge.
HUB: ...good morning, sir. how're things in the second circuit this morning...? ...i hear you... listen, judge, we're in a kind of situation here...
HUB: hold on, will ya, judge? is he talking to somebody, who's he talking to? are we getting film?

HUB: -- frank? 
FRANK: don't know him. if we were allowed to get sound on them, we'd know him.
HUB: ...what's that? no, judge, not yet we're not... but we have reason to believe he may be involved with -- tommy! he's overacting! tell him -- sorry, judge... no... i just --
FRANK: he's making him. he's --
HUB: go, go, go!!! all units --

FRANK: christ! 
HUB: judge, i'm gonna have to call you back...

FRED: they just found the van. doesn't look like they're gonna find any prints. 
HUB: run him down, bring him in.
FRED: floyd rose.
HUB: go, floyd.

DANNY: i had a dog like that once. 
FRANK: it's not his dog, numbnuts. they're spies.
DANNY: the dog works for the cia?
HUB: all units report in turn.
HUB: let's roll.
THE MAN WALKING THE DOG: is suddenly double-teamed by two agents.

ELISE: ralph, spare us. 
ELISE: i never touched him.
HUB: really? i'm taking him into custody just the same.
ELISE: what are you going to charge him with? jaywalking? i don't suppose we could just have a little chat with him here first?
HUB: not in this lifetime.
ELISE: you know, hub... may i call you hub? if you guys hadn't blown the surveillance, we'd have been able to follow the money. what do you think, khalil, you would have led us right to your friends, wouldn't you?
HUB: what friends --? what have you got for me, elise?... enlighten me. tell me now or tell me downtown.
HUB: get this guy out of here and book him.
ELISE: one phone call and he's mine again. you know the number. i have --
HUB: you have "the right to remain silent," you have "the right to an attorney. anything you say can and will be held against you in a court of law --

ELISE: oh, come on... do you have any idea what you're starting here, the kind of shitstorm you're about to -- 
HUB: cuff her.

FRANK: so, elise... you okay back there, you don't get carsick or anything? those handcuffs too tight --? 
ELISE: shouf mountains, right? shiite or sunni?
FRANK: wow. you're really good. she's really good.
HUB: you ready to tell us what's going on here, elise --? was the paintbomb a warning?
ELISE: american university of beirut? i was there from '79 to 82.
FRANK: no
ELISE: my father taught economics. henry kraft?
HUB: is there a terrorist cell operating in this city that we are unaware of?
ELISE: such a tragedy. growing up in that city was... paradise. like an exotic paris, wasn't it, frank --?
HUB: you ever been in rikers, elise? you know what happens in there?
ELISE: ...yum.

NYPD OFFICER: -- definitely arab-types, only this time they're still in there... 
HUB: any communication at all?
NYPD OFFICER: nope. it's weird they're just in there.
HUB: get the frequency of the driver's radio and patch it through to this number. we need two lines. frank, get a negotiator out here.
NYPD OFFICER #2: sir, they've got kids in there. we count six.
HUB: that gives us something to work with.

ELISE: what's happening out there... 
ELISE: they've taken another bus, haven't they? talk to me...
HUB: oh, now you want to talk. you want to be my friend, is that it?
ELISE: listen, these guys are the real deal.
HUB: how do you know?
HUB: is there a terrorist cell operating in brooklyn?
ELISE: yes.
HUB: was the blue paint a warning?
ELISE: yes. and i'm afraid this time they'll blow the bus.
HUB: if they wanted to blow the bus then why haven't they blown the bus --?
ELISE: i... don't know.
ELISE: agent hubbard. please. maybe i can help.
A COMMAND POST: has been hastily improvised behind a swat van.
FRANK: the driver's name is larry kaiser. he says they've got explosives strapped to their chests, they got automatic weapons, and they're speaking arabic.
HUB: where the hell's the negotiator?
FRANK: tunnel's got twenty minute delays and they're working on both bridges.
HUB: what else did he say about the device? did he describe it at all? anything about a button, or a cord, or...
THE FIRST ENG TRUCK: pulls up and raises its satellite dish.
ELISE: oh,
ELISE: ...they're not here to negotiate.
FRANK: meaning?
ELISE: they were waiting for the cameras.
FRANK: -- hub...
ELISE: they're want the newsies here. they want everybody watching.
ELISE: you've got the shooters in place?
FRANK: -- so?
ELISE: use 'em.
HUB: what?
ELISE: kill 'em now.
ELISE: it's lose-lose any way you play it... do you want to lose little or lose big?
NYPD OFFICER: i got the marksmen on the com -- they're looking for a clean shot.
NYPD OFFICER: shooter says they've got the passengers all standing in the aisles. he says, no go.
HUB: we have rules of engagement we're gonna follow here, folks, so put the safeties back on your weapons. nobody's killing anybody until we see what's what.
HUB: larry, this is agent hubbard of the fbi, i'll be negotiating our way out of this. let me talk to one of them... i know... i know. you just hang in there, larry... no, don't worry, i've got somebody here who can translate.
HUB: sir, -- my name is anthony hubbard. i don't have any authority to make deals, or respond to demands. i just want to find out if you need anything in there? if any of the passengers are in need of medical attention?
HUB: -- frank?
FRANK: i don't know if they understand.
HUB: sir, is there anything you want to say to me? that i can tell my people here?
FRANK: the guy's just breathing into the phone, maybe they're not even arabs.
HUB: i get the feeling you don't want to talk, but will you listen --? ...whatever grievance you have, whatever quarrel -- surely it doesn't involve these children -- still no response.
FRANK: okay, here we go...
HUB: thank you, sir. i appreciate that gesture, i really do. the best way to get what you want in these situations is to show yourself to be reasonable. as you've just done. now we've got some more to talk about...
HUB: i am unarmed, as you can see. so i propose... you let the rest of the passengers go, and i take their place... that way, there's no pizza deliveries or bathroom breaks to worry about -- and all these -- -- people... will disappear. frank shakes his head, don't do this. hub's look says translate it. frank does it. they all wait.
HUB: i'm gonna take your silence to mean you're considering my offer --
HUB: how about we just start with a few of the elderly people you got on there. it's got to be hard for the older folks to be standing all this time. hub looks back at frank. still no response.
HUB: thank you, sir. now let's just let these --
THE EXPLOSION OF THE BUS: hurls hub backwards as:

RED BLOOD: replaces blue paint in a horrific shower. 
HUB: fights for consciousness.

HUB: i'm... alright. i'm -- 
HUB: -- okay... just let me --

HUB: -- every trap, every hole. i want to rumble every mosque, every community center, every student organization that's ever said an unkind word. i want the heat turned up under all our assets, all our informers, every snitch gets twisted inside out. and put some money out on the street -- arab community hates these people as much as we do. they'll help. have you got positive id on -- 
MIKE: hub, we don't have positive id on anybody.
HUB: we need more hands. fred --
FRED: i'm on it.
HUB: i want to talk to khalil.
TINA: he's down the hall.
HUB: -- conferences with dc at 9:00, 12:00, 4:00 and 9:00. call your families, find a sleeping bag, nobody leaves this office until we have a strand to pull. oklahoma city, people. the first twenty-four hours are the only twenty-four hours.. and i don't want to see anybody walking.

HUB: doctor seen him? 
TINA: he's on his way up.
HUB: got a cigarette --?
TINA: you don't smoke.

HUB: ten thousand dollars. 
HUB: khalil. i want to talk about the money.
HUB: okay...
HUB: doesn't like second hand smoke.
HUB: you ready to talk about money?
FRANK: ...he says he loves america and only wanted to get away from the security services at home.
FRANK: ...he says he's sorry but he didn't know he was doing something bad. his cousin introduced him to a man who promised him two hundred dollars for his dowry if he'd bring the suitcase to an address in brooklyn. he's a cut-out.
OUTSIDE THE ROOM -- LATER: hub hands tina back the pack of cigarettes.
HUB: nasty habit. 3830 flatbush avenue.

HUB: -- ask it if they've ever hit buses? 
WHITNEY: -- not according to the mainframe.

HUB: -- with a q-tip. bone shards, hair, fingernails -- 
DANNY: -- he's way over his head.
FRANK: shut the up and go give somebody a parking ticket.

TV SOUND BITE: "-- today; tel aviv has come to brooklyn. the question... is why." 
WHITNEY: you okay?
FINGERPRINT EXPERT: got one!
HUB: ladies and gentlemen, meet the late ali waziri.
HUB: tina talked to the israelis and traced this sucker to a group operating out of ramallah. that's the west bank, not the west side for those of you just joining us from nebraska.
TINA: okay, we've pulled his landing card and his i-94. so now we know he came in three days ago, out of frankfurt --
TINA: what we need now is to fill in the time between his arrival and the incident. all known associations, and most of all, we need an address.

FRANK: iap66. what's iap66? 
DANNY: hold on, hold on, i'm looking it up --
FRANK: -- today, danny...
DANNY: wait, wait -- here we go. student visa, j-1.
HUB: where's the original --?
DANNY: in his passport.
FRANK: which is... vaporized.
HUB: where's the copy?
FRANK: at the point of issuance. could be the american consulate in tel aviv. the american consulate in amman, cairo, alexandria, riyadh -- all an easy drive from the west bank --
HUB: what time is it --?
DANNY: three-fifteen. p.m. when's the last time you ate?
FRED: sir. they want you in the lab.

FIBER EXPERT: pure, unadulterated, egyptian cotton. 
FRED: you're saying they're egyptian?
FIBER EXPERT: no. no... i'm just saying -- see...
HUB: -- it's what they use for funerals. the guy was wearing a shroud.
HUB: let's see if she's ready to talk.

HUB: i thought one phone call and you were out of here. 
ELISE: i didn't make the call.
HUB: why not?
ELISE: are you alright --?
HUB: just some tinnitus in my left ear --
HUB: i need to know what i don't know.
ELISE: life's too short.
HUB: you hungry?
ELISE: we ordering in --?

ELISE: -- the funeral shroud is the final step in the ritual of self- purification. first a fast, then -- 
HUB: -- the washing of the body, then the shroud. i saw it on sixty minutes. tell me something i don't know.
ELISE: ...last march in iraq, we identified the man we believe responsible for bombing the army barracks last year. in august, he went to lebanon. where he was... extracted.
HUB: extracted? extracted by whom? i see.
ELISE: his name is sheik ahmed bin talal. he's iraqi. and something of a religious leader.
HUB: with something of a devoted following? ...okay, i can understand why we might not want to publicize the fact that our government's in the kidnapping business, but why not tell us?
ELISE: he's still being... debriefed. they're not ready to go public with charges.
HUB: what else you got on his followers.
ELISE: clearly, they're committed.
HUB: meaning?
ELISE: in this game, the most committed wins.
HUB: so they'll just keep coming until we release him.
ELISE: unless we match their commitment with our own.
HUB: what about talking to this sheik?
ELISE: you don't think they've got guys talking to the sheik? except the sheik isn't talking.
HUB: so who's giving the orders? how do they coordinate, pick their targets?
ELISE: believe me, we've put every resource we've got onto that very question. otherwise... we wait.
HUB: we wait.
ELISE: if there's anybody on earth who knows how you feel, it's me. but you've got to let it go. those people were dead the minute they got on the bus.
FRANK: sorry, boss. hello, elise. mmmm, is that pastrami? oh, yeah, we made the guy in the picture.

FRANK: my people. the last of the unambivalent smokers. monsters. the toughest in bed-stuy is a muffin compared to some of these guys. 
FRANK: his name's samir nazhde. teaches arab studies at brooklyn college. he sponsored ail waziri's student visa. and dig this -- his brother blew up a movie theatre in tel aviv.
ELISE: you might consider leaving him alone.
HUB: why would i consider doing that --?
ELISE: play him like a cop and haul him in now and get your arrest, or tag him and let him lead you to the really big fish.
FRANK: you're fishing and he's getting visas for bombers.
ELISE: you ever heard of catch and release?
FRANK: yes, and he's on the next plane for tunis.
HUB: take him down.
FRANK: go.
FRANK: samir nazhde, my name is frank haddad, i'm a federal agent. we have reason to believe you are an accessory to the bombing of bus 87.
SAMIR: are you crazy --?
FRANK: you are an associate of ali waziri.
SAMIR: who? i know no one by that name.
FRANK: you got him a student visa.
SAMIR: i sign these applications as a matter of course, hundreds of them. everyone wants to come to the land of opportunity and baywatch.
FRANK: you spent two years in israeli jails during the intifada.
SAMIR: the only ones who didn't were women like you.
HUB: frank --
FRANK: sorry. family matter. you're going downtown, my friend.
SAMIR: you cannot hold me. i know my rights. i watch american television.
FRANK: defrauding the ins is a federal offense. reservation for one, please.

ELISE: club fed. 
FRANK: "oh, danny-boy, the perps, the perps, are call-ing... we need a search warrant on samir...
HUB: frank, c'mere a sec. i want to show you something.
HUB: frank, you ever hit a prisoner again i'll have your badge.
FRANK: -- someday i will tell you what those people did to my village in '71.
HUB: okay. but right now, act as if i'm capable of saying something funny... now, let's go see about that warrant.
HUB: find me a judge who'll play ball this time. and set up a polygraph for samir.
ELISE: i still don't understand why we're tipping our hand with him --
FRANK: what's there to tip?
HUB: you're just trying to protect your asset. aren't you, elise --? he's your joe, your asset. he's working for you, you're his case officer -- right?
ELISE: ...sometimes... in addition to being a nationality, being a palestinian is also a... profession. a lucrative one.
HUB: meaning, he's your joe.
ELISE: mine. yours. the israelis. the saudis. at one time or another, everybody in the middle east has slept with everybody else.
FRANK: so you're saying... you sleep around?
ELISE: only professionally.
HUB: so we share him.
ELISE: no.
HUB: -- call ins, find out his status and start deportation proceedings.
ELISE: i can't let you do that.
HUB: oh, you can't let me do that. what precisely is your involvement with these people.
ELISE: samir's been a very important... project of mine for some time... i'm the only one he'll deal with. he's very well-connected -- and extremely high-strung.
HUB: ...call the judge.
ELISE: how easy is it to get inside, frank? how good are your sources in the mosques? how many people you got in hamas --?
ELISE: no surveillance. i've seen your deft touch.
HUB: daily reports. we tap his phone.
ELISE: and i get to see the transcripts.
HUB: fair enough.
ELISE: and i run him.
HUB: we share him.
ELISE: he can't know we're talking.
HUB: then don't tell him.
ELISE: done.
HUB: let him fly. but we better start seeing product.
HUB: any more surprises for me?
ELISE: not tonight.
HUB: then i'm going home to get some things.
FRANK: i'll have somebody drive you.
HUB: i'll grab a cab.
FRANK: elise. i'm really high strung, too.

SAMIR: you let him hit me --!! you cannot care about me and let such things happen! 
ELISE: next time don't be such a smart --
SAMIR: sometimes i hate you just because you are so american. it makes me want to hurt you. i think about you and hurting you.
ELISE: -- you want to me? then work with me.
SAMIR: don't tell me what i have to do.
ELISE: no? do we really want to have this conversation again? do we --?
ELISE: i need you to help me. i need you to be strong. as you have always been strong. for both of us. -- samir? look at me...

SAMIR: -- some people just cannot live in the camps. for my brother, it was already like dying. the only thing he lives for is movies. 
SAMIR: -- and then some sheik tells him that, to die for allah is beautiful. if he does this thing, our parents will be taken care of, and he will live on in paradise with seventy virgins. seventy. and my brother, he needs to believe it very much, so he straps ten sticks of dynamite to his chest and goes to the movies... and i become a vip. it is very confusing.
ELISE: -- so who are you afraid of betraying? you know these people. they bomb, they maim. do they represent the palestine you want to build? they're using you.
SAMIR: you are using me, too! everybody uses the palestinians! we are the whores of the middle east! you make reports about our little talks --? what about me?
ELISE: i had to get special permission for that.

DEVEREAUX: hi. i understand they call you hub. 
HUB: i know who you are, general.
DEVEREAUX: bill devereaux.
HUB: i served in the --
DEVEREAUX: 82nd airborne, i know. same time i was running the --
HUB: -- 173rd. put me through school.
DEVEREAUX: duty. honor. country. where on capitol hill, wall street, or hollywood would you find one man who's even paused over one of those words in the last ten years?
HUB: what, uh, brings you here, general?... can i get you some coffee?
DEVEREAUX: you want me to get to the point. the president's concerned. he's worried that -- have you met him by any chance?
HUB: no, sir, i haven't. i know -- reading the papers -- terrorism's a real concern for him. and your job is to --
DEVEREAUX: -- with all the affection for the man i can tell you he doesn't know fuckall about terrorism, or the mideast, that i don't put on his cue cards. what he's expert in is his own survival. you get my meaning?
HUB: i didn't guess you came all this way for a cup of coffee.
DEVEREAUX: agent hubbard -- you look like you think i'm here to take your baby away!
HUB: with all respect for your expertise, sir. we're on track here.
DEVEREAUX: which is what i said to the president -- the army is not some big green police department. stick with the man on the ground.
HUB: i appreciate your support.
DEVEREAUX: you're sure you're not chasing your own tail, though?
HUB: what do you know about sheik ahmed bin talal?
DEVEREAUX: old news.
HUB: maybe not. we've received two communications -- from the bombers to "release him."
DEVEREAUX: we can't release him.
HUB: i know our stated policy is not to negotiate with terrorists, but --
DEVEREAUX: hub, we can't release him because we don't have him. we never had him. and besides that, he's dead.
HUB: the cia says --
DEVEREAUX: the cia? the cia couldn't predict the fall of the berlin wall until bricks were hitting them in the head. the libyans snatched the sheik -- some sectarian muslim thing -- i'll explain it next time you have a free week. they killed him. qaddafi put out disinformation that it was us... who was your source on this?
HUB: elise kraft.
DEVEREAUX: ...a woman will never know the middle east. you're talking about a culture that keeps its women slipcovered. elise kraft can't tell a sheik from the prophylactic of the same name.
HUB: i appreciate the heads up.
ELISE: hub, we've got judge frankel in -- oh. hello, general.
DEVEREAUX: please, don't let me --
ELISE: sorry. that tip on the landlord looks solid. the judge will see us right away.
DEVEREAUX: sounds like i should get out of your way. we're there if you need us. your father well, elise?
ELISE: as can be expected. how's maggie?
DEVEREAUX: top of her game. well, go get 'em.
ELISE: making new friends.
HUB: how's your lip --?
ELISE: so... you like to watch --?
HUB: no. just learning about commitment.
ELISE: it's a full contact sport.

JUDGE FRANKEL: -- you're telling me that just because some brooklyn landlord tips you off that he's been paid in cash, you have the right to call in the cavalry -- ! hub, as far as i know, paying cash is not yet a crime in this country. 
HUB: you're not hearing me. this khalil was carrying cash for --
JUDGE FRANKEL: -- you've observed him giving cash to --
HUB: ... no, but --
JUDGE FRANKEL: -- but you have hard evidence linking this apartment to the people that blew up bus 87 --?
HUB: i know we'll turn up trace elements of semtex, chemicals... something.
JUDGE FRANKEL: and when you do, you'll get your warrant.
HUB: what about as a feasibility study?
JUDGE FRANKEL: meaning?
HUB: we enter first, take a look, then fill out the warrant.
JUDGE FRANKEL: tell me the difference between that and breaking-and-entering?
HUB: we're the good guys.
JUDGE FRANKEL: not good enough.
HUB: what is good enough, judge? another bus? a school, maybe. these things come in waves.
JUDGE FRANKEL: waves mean nothing to me; there's been a wave of violent crime committed by black people in this city for the past twenty years, but if you came to me with a plan to put all black people behind bars as a preventative measure i'd send you packing. there's a price to be paid for living in a free society --
HUB: -- and not in cash i guarantee it.

ELISE: -- not two judges from now, not two hours from now, not two minutes from now. these guys could split any second and you've lost your best shot at -- 
HUB: frank's working another warrant --
ELISE: you don't understand, they're pros! from the age of twelve they've been dodging people like you, people better than you.
HUB: you mean people like you?
ELISE: -- no matter how sparkling your record is, no matter how terrified you are to fail -- finally he stops, turns on her:
HUB: it's... against... the... law.
ELISE: -- just because you went to night school, or filled out the back of a matchbook or whatever you did to get a law degree doesn't make you sir thomas more.
HUB: just because you talk the talk doesn't make you an expert. and just because you read my file doesn't make you an expert on me.
ELISE: you're gonna lose them and they're gonna do another horrible --
HUB: -- you think i want to lose them. where do you get off talking that if i don't take 'em down properly they'll be on the street two hours from now. i could find dynamite, semtex, plutonium and a book of matches in there and unless i've got the right warrant it's all inadmissible
ELISE: they've also got a warrant. a warrant from they're ready to die! and your quaint laws don't mean to these people.
HUB: my quaint laws? last i checked you were an american citizen. and these happen to be the only laws we got. look, i'm just a cop, okay, and i'm real sorry the cold war's over, and you masters of the universe got nothing going on over there in afghanistan or iraq or wherever -- but you're just not in the middle east anymore...
ELISE: oh, really...?

ELISE: they're discussing how hard it is to find a decent cup of coffee over here. i make out three voices. what do you have on the infrared? 
FRANK: three sounds right. if we had microwave we'd know for sure. the cia's got microwave, how come we don't have microwave. hub, meanwhile is question a syrian landlord.
LANDLORD: -- three of them. all day long they watch tv. and eat pizza. nothing but pizza, pizza, pizza...

MIKE: you want change, right --? 
YOUNG ARAB: no.
MIKE: you gonna open the door, or what --?
MIKE: didn't ya hear crime's down seven-percent...

HUB: what about the others? see if we can get a pulse -- 
FRED: terminal.
MIKE: same here.
ELISE: gone.
MIKE: we got semtex, we got detcord, same stuff as the bus, the whole enchilada...
FRANK: anybody like anchovies --?
HUB: it. it.
FRANK: what --?
HUB: it didn't fire. they had it rigged to the door and it didn't fire.
HUB: we're too old to be lucky, frank.

ELISE: my first boyfriend was palestinian. my father liked to say, they seduce you with their suffering. 
ELISE: you ever been over there --? ...the courtesy with which they welcome you into their homes. and the people, these incredibly... warm people in this... austere land.
HUB: but you work against them.
ELISE: only the crazies. i tend to be suspicious of all true believers. present company included.
HUB: so i'm a fanatic.
ELISE: let's just say you don't seem the ambivalent type.
HUB: is that right?
ELISE: so why're are you a fed?
HUB: that's what my nephew keeps asking me. "why you with the man, unc?"
ELISE: ...well? what'd you tell him?
HUB: you read my file. you tell me.
ELISE: let's see... catholic school. captain of this, president of that. hard work, fair play, make a difference, change the system from within. rah. rah. rah.
HUB: that was in my file?
ELISE: ...tell me i'm wrong.
ELISE: ...what --?
HUB: you believe in anything, elise --?
ELISE: like what, for instance?
HUB: how about right and wrong?
ELISE: it's easy to choose between right and wrong. what's hard is choosing the wrong that's more right. i just want to make it all... a little... better. ignore me. i'm shitfaced.
FRANK: so am i --! hey, elise... tell us about being a spook? ever meet aldrich ames? weren't you at the bay of pigs?
ELISE: you were in charge of waco, right -- ? or was that ruby ridge?
FRANK: the shah of iran, noriega, i love the way you guys predicted the collapse of the soviet union.
ELISE: yeah, yeah, yeah... and j. edgar hoover wore a dress.
ELISE: what do you say, hub...? peace?
ELISE: this feels like high school.
HUB: -- only my prom date wasn't packing a gun.
ELISE: mine's a 9 mm. how big is yours?
HUB: two inches. from the ground. so what's the latest from samir. i want a list of every visa he sponsored.
ELISE: not sure he'll do it.
HUB: i once knew this undercover guy, started to care so much about his source --
ELISE: -- samir's a source. period.
HUB: have you considered that he might also be in bed with the other side?
ELISE: samir in bed with them? that would too much to wish for.
HUB: you're so confident.
ELISE: only in bed.

FRANK: whoa... what do they put in these drinks --? 
TINA: they got earthquakes in manhattan?

NYPD SERGEANT: -- waited 'til intermission. everybody standing around... oh, jesus... 
NEWS REPORTER: is it true the governor was attending tonight's benefit --?
HUB: i don't know.
NEWS REPORTER: who it is i'm speaking to --?

A DARKENED AIRPLANE: hub sits alone. 
PILOT: folks, as you can probably tell, we have begun our descent into washington's national airport.

STEWARDESS: -- you alright? 
ARMY GENERAL: either we answer this threat quickly and convincingly or next week there'll be a hundred more all over the world.

FBI DIRECTOR: these sects are organized so you need a kill to your credit to get inside. it makes undercover operations impossible. what that leaves us is... we're working on it. 
SENATOR WRIGHT: how about who's behind who's behind this?
CIA DIRECTOR: libya. iraq. iran. possibly syria.
CHIEF OF STAFF: ask a question. get an atlas.
SENATOR WRIGHT: all i know is that we must respond.
CHIEF OF STAFF: respond, sure. but how?
SENATOR WRIGHT: find out who it is and bomb the out of them.
CHIEF OF STAFF: and if we can't find out --?
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: look it keeps escalating. first a bus, then the theatre. what's next?
SENATOR WRIGHT: anything but leadership.
DEVEREAUX: with all respect, senator, why don't we just stipulate that the president is a son of a so we can all get down to business.
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: what about sending in the guard?
ATTORNEY GENERAL: the national guard are trained for riot control not counter-terrorism.
SENATOR WRIGHT: the army then. i've seen the contingency plans.
ATTORNEY GENERAL: it's settled legal doctrine, posse comitatus, that the army not be turned against our own people.
SENATOR WRIGHT: even if that's what our own people are asking for, three to one?
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: if the president is willing to declare a state of emergency --
SENATOR WRIGHT: president lincoln declared martial law in 1862. he suspended --
ATTORNEY GENERAL: -- which the supreme court later found un-constitutional. ex parte milligan.
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: and i've got an election in november. ex-united states congressman.
CHIEF OF STAFF: guys, guys, the president lost a lot of friends last night --
CONGRESSMAN MARSHALL: not to mention six points in the polls.
CHIEF OF STAFF: -- and his plane lands in two hours. we owe it to him to have a consensus.
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: you don't fight a junkyard dog with aspca rules. what you do is take the leash off your own, bigger, meaner dog.
CHIEF OF STAFF: ...general?
DEVEREAUX: the army is a broadsword not a scalpel. you do not want us in an american city.
CHIEF OF STAFF: but hypothetically... how long would it take you to --
DEVEREAUX: we only go if the president invokes the war powers act.
CHIEF OF STAFF: i understand that, general. let us imagine, though, for a moment, that the order has been given.

DEVEREAUX: and no card-carrying member of the aclu is more deadset against it... than i am. which is why i urge you... no, i implore you not to consider this option. 
CHIEF OF STAFF: i know what the president will say.
DEVEREAUX: what's that?
CHIEF OF STAFF: that's exactly why you're the only man for the job.

BACK TO -- THE SITUATION ROOM: the army general speaks up. 
ARMY GENERAL: i remind you general devereaux does not speak for official army policy. a police function has become accepted as our role in haiti, in somalia --
HUB: -- could i interrupt? everyone looks over at hub. devereaux smiles.
DEVEREAUX: that's anthony hubbard, fbi. he's the asac on the ground up there. they took out the first cell less than 36 hours after bus 87. i suggest we hear what he has to say --
HUB: there is something you probably haven't thought about doing?
CHIEF OF STAFF: and that is --?
HUB: nothing. don't over-react. with all respect, gentlemen, i'm just a cop. to you these people may be martyrs, but to me they're criminals. and a criminal is no more than somebody who thinks he's better than everyone else. and he's not better. he only has to be wrong once. and that's where we come in. we run down a tip from a landlord, or we pick up a latent print from a bus. our phones are ringing off the hook with people from the arab community wanting to help.
HUB: they love this country and they hate that these criminals are giving them a bad name. with their help and some old-fashioned shoe leather, we'll nail these guys.
DEVEREAUX: -- amen to that.
CHIEF OF STAFF: thank you, agent hubbard. i, too, think we should proceed cautiously. now we've got an agency briefing prepared... some of you may not know sharon bridger. sharon was posted in iraq as part of our covert operations during the gulf war. -- sharon...
ELISE: we all know the traditional model of a terrorist network. one cell controlling all others. cut off the head and the body will wither.
ELISE: unfortunately the old wisdom no longer applies. the new paradigm is like the myth of the hydra. each cell exists independent of the other. cut off one head and another rises up in its place.

HUB: -- are they confirmed? 
FRANK: fred, whitney, we're waiting on who else...
HUB: sharon.
ELISE: this is colonel hardwick. army intelligence.
HUB: anthony hubbard. average intelligence. but 'til i hear otherwise this is still my show.
COL. HARDWICK: i'm here as an advisor only. i intend to keep a low profile.
HUB: i appreciate that, colonel.
COL. HARDWICK: i don't mean to be insensitive, but what, exactly, are your capabilities at this point? your... infrastructure --
HUB: you're standing on our infrastructure. excuse me.

FLOYD: -- they managed to get a partial vin off the van. dmv says it was reported stolen the day before in -- 
HUB: -- brooklyn.
DANNY: fiber thinks they've come up with a piece of the shroud. egyptian cotton.
FRANK: we just got a confirmation on mike. he was with fred in the lobby.
HUB: how many does that make it --?
ELISE: i'm... very sorry... about your friends.
HUB: frank. this is sharon. -- i didn't catch the last name.
ELISE: ...bridger. how ya doin' frank?
FRANK: been better.
ELISE: the agency has come up with another list of probables.
ELISE: i think we should circulate them. hey, this stuff may be good.
HUB: why was there no warning from samir?
ELISE: because he didn't know anything.
FRANK: says samir.
ELISE: says me.
HUB: maybe i'll ask him.
ELISE: over my dead body.
HUB: over six hundred dead bodies.
ELISE: look, he's one of the good guys. okay?
HUB: how the can you be so sure?
ELISE: because he helped me recruit the network in iraq. okay?
ELISE: we were part of the operation to destabilize saddam hussein. printing up fake dinars, arming the kurds --
HUB: -- and financing the sheik.
ELISE: he's iraqi. he was going to be our ayatollah khomeini --
HUB: -- and help bring down saddam.
ELISE: i ran the network. samir was the go- between. he risked his life for us over there.
HUB: so who are they? give me names, give me pictures. not some history lesson.
ELISE: i can't give you pictures because i don't know what they look like. we did everything at arm's length.
HUB: so you got nothing.
ELISE: i've got samir.
HUB: has he had any contact with them?
ELISE: minimal.
HUB: how does he do it?
ELISE: he can't. they initiate.
HUB: and otherwise...
ELISE: he's waiting.
HUB: he's waiting? what's he waiting for? more bodies? we got lots more buildings in midtown, maybe he's waiting to see how many they can blow up.
ELISE: look, i know how you must feel --

ELISE: they'll make contact soon. 
HUB: how?... why soon?

HUB: what's the tradecraft, sharon? ironsites, visuals? i love all that spy i'm gonna haul your boy downtown, strap his to a polygraph and ask him all about you. then i'm gonna send the transcripts to a friend of mine at the times who just loves to write about the latest cia link to some political horror show. 
ELISE: you burn him, you lose any chance you ever had.
HUB: it's lose-lose from here on in, who said that?
ELISE: i'm not with you.
HUB: how can you possibly remember who you're
ELISE: i need... more time. please. you're hurting me. please...

FRANK: that's good sound. 
HUB: except they're not saying anything worth listening to.

FRANK: one's his uncle, he owns the place. the other's a doctor. they check out clean. 
HUB: he go there every day?
FRANK: a clean body and a pure heart. sequence omitted from original script.

TALK RADIO: -- the jews, man. when they say, jump, we say, how high. i say we -- 
FRANK: -- if you're on the state department terrorist watch list you cannot get into this country. but ali waziri was on the watch list, and he got in.
HUB: did you call the state department?
FRANK: they told me to call ins.
HUB: -- and?
FRANK: they told me to call state.
HUB: don't you just love government?

MAYORAL AA: -- is to make this city safe...! and your department -- 
DANNY: my department what, asshole...?
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: guys... guys...
HUB: sorry. from now on, we will raise our hands and wait to be called on --
INS OFFICIAL: howard kaplan. ins. so we've pulled every ethnic visa in the city and traced them to source. who wants em?
HUB: danny --?
DANNY: we bring 'me in, have a talk.
UNIFORM COP: what about translators --?
DISTRICT ATTORNEY: how many people we talking about here?
INS OFFICIAL: sixteen hundred, maybe more.
DANNY: where the we gonna put sixteen hundred people?
MAN IN SUIT: what about a military presence at jfk and laguardia --?
HUB: i don't think we're there yet. it's also not going to stop these people.
MAYORAL AA: what about protecting the arab population? there's a lot of anger --
ARAB SPOKESMAN: i represent the american-arab anti- discrimination committee. whatever injustices my people may be suffering at this difficult moment, we will continue to show our patriotism and our commitment to this country.
HUB: thank you, sir. and to everyone else for their patience today. these are extremely difficult times -- london, paris, we're not the first city to have to deal with this.
HUB: in tel aviv, the day after they blew up the market, the market was full. this is new york. we can take it.

DANNY: -- one of the moms was carrying a piece, wounds the guy as he's planting the device. he kills her and locks them all in. up there in the corner... by the clock. 
DANNY: -- it's got a timer on it only we don't know how much time is left.
HUB: closer on the timer.
TECHNICIAN: i'm trying but the angle's wrong...
FRANK: what the is the nypd doing here?!
DANNY: i don't know. somebody must have --

ELISE: this just came in. 
ELISE: you alright?
HUB: my neck's a little stiff, that's all.
ELISE: that's not what i meant.
HUB: i know.
HUB: you want a drink?
ELISE: sure.
ELISE: that was a pretty crazy thing you did today.
HUB: better days.
ELISE: i wanted to -- i... just didn't feel like... being alone... tonight.
HUB: where's samir?
ELISE: i could call him. maybe he'd join us.
HUB: you'd like that.
ELISE: i might. or i could call tina.

555-6354.: they stare at each other. 
ELISE: look, i thought samir'd be an easy recruit. he wasn't. it was crazy but i did what i had to do. you know as well as i do, running an agent can be very... complicated.
HUB: how about running an fbi agent?
ELISE: you think i'm trying to run you?
HUB: ...why else are you here?
ELISE: ...you know why i'm here.
ELISE: tell me to leave.
HUB: leave.
ELISE: no.

CHIEF OF STAFF: the fbi received another fax. 
DEVEREAUX: ahmed bin talal. they're still under the impression that we have him.
CHIEF OF STAFF: do we? have him?
DEVEREAUX: to refresh your memory, as i told you last time, it was the libyans who --
CHIEF OF STAFF: i remember perfectly well what you said last time. do we?
DEVEREAUX: let me give you some free advice, son. don't get between me and the president. you might break a nail.
CHIEF OF STAFF: i am speaking for the president.
DEVEREAUX: as far as the president is concerned... no, we do not.
CHIEF OF STAFF: general, do you know that after yesterday's attack, half the parents in this country kept their children out of school --? ...they're attacking our way of life. it's got to stop. and the president cannot afford to be weak.
DEVEREAUX: are you saying the president is prepared to take the necessary steps...?
CHIEF OF STAFF: i'm saying, the president is prepared to be... presidential.

DEVEREAUX: intelligence tells us he is most likely arab-speaking, between the age of fourteen and thirty. narrowing the target to fifteen thousand suspects. 
DEVEREAUX: we can further reduce that number down to those who have been in this country less than six months. now you have twenty hiding among two thousand.
DEVEREAUX: if you are one of these twenty young men, you can hide among a population of similar ethnic background. unfortunately for you, you can only hide there. and that population, in the classic immigration pattern, is concentrated. right here in brooklyn.
DEVEREAUX: we intend to seal off this borough. and then we intend to squeeze it. this is the land of opportunity, gentlemen. the opportunity to turn yourselves in. after sundown tonight any young man fitting the profile i described who has not cooperated will be arrested and detained.
MP: would you follow me, please. the general is expecting you.
DEVEREAUX: there is historically nothing more corrosive to the morale of an army than policing its own citizens.

DEVEREAUX: but the enemy would be sadly mistaken if they were to doubt our resolve. they are now face to face with the most fearsome killing machine in the history of man. and i intend to use it. and be back on base in time for the play-offs... that is all. 
DEVEREAUX: hub. good to see you again.
HUB: i can't say the same, sir. not in that uniform. i thought you were against this.
DEVEREAUX: i am against it. it wasn't my call.
HUB: "i'm only following orders" didn't work at nuremberg. it may not be your policy but they're your tactics.
DEVEREAUX: your operation had its chance, hub, and you couldn't get it done. you're down three touchdowns. time to bring in the first string.
HUB: against our own team?
DEVEREAUX: are you questioning my patriotism?
HUB: i'm questioning your judgement, yes, sir.
DEVEREAUX: hub, i want you to take a moment and reflect on my life as a soldier. i have a dozen tropical diseases i'll never entirely get rid of. i set off metal detectors with the shrapnel in my ass. i have watched men die and i have killed. now i am serving my president and quite possibly not the best interests of my country, but my profession doesn't afford me the luxury of that distinction. i won't question your patriotism but don't you ever again question my command.
HUB: i'm not under your command, general.
DEVEREAUX: take a good look around, my friend, and tell me that's still true. but we're not shutting you out. in fact, i can't do it without you, hub. i need men like you. men willing to put it on the line like you did in that schoolroom. these stars mean i have been putting it on the line for thirty years... and never made a mistake worth remembering. don't tell me i made a mistake about you.
HUB: they're not shutting us out. they need men like me.
ELISE: he'll it up, the arrogant prick. you ever met anybody so in love with the sound of his own voice?
HUB: we're putting samir in play.
ELISE: now? with all this going on? he's freaked.
HUB: oh, right, he's high-strung. only you can manage him. you and the cia and the dia and god-knows-who-else you're really working for --! get back in there, sharon, elise, whatever the your name is -- they'll probably make you a colonel... if you're not one already.
ELISE: all this... is no more in our interest than it is in yours, hub.
HUB: what, exactly, are your interests, sharon? you protect samir, you protect the agency. you're interested in protecting everything but your country.
ELISE: you have no idea what i do for my country.
HUB: no, and i don't want to know. with you or without you we're putting samir in play. now.
ELISE: one more lamb to the slaughter.

SAMIR: oh, my oh, my 
HUB: does he understand the difference between the fbi and the dea?
ELISE: samir... it's fine, he's cool.
SAMIR: listen to that --! are you listening? they're killing arabs out there!
HUB: you can stop it all right now.
SAMIR: what are you talking about --? the army is here. they're setting up interrogation centers right now. they're torturing people in cellars.
HUB: let's just calm down for a second...
SAMIR: -- i've got to get out of here. you have to help me --
HUB: we'll take care of you... don't worry. you just have to calm down --
SAMIR: money... i must have more money...
HUB: -- you got a student visa for ali waziri. because... somebody asked you to -- didn't they --?
SAMIR: i... got it myself.
ELISE: liar --!
ELISE: you... tell him... what he wants to know.
HUB: hey, that's enough.
ELISE: he knows. he knows.
SAMIR: she's crazy. they're ghosts. jinn. they'd never trust someone like me.
ELISE: stop simpering.
SAMIR: please...
ELISE: i've got a picture of the two of us, do you remember that picture, samir? i'm going to post that picture in every mosque in brooklyn. and then i'm gonna send copies to some friends of mine on the west bank. you've got family there, don't you --?
ELISE: let go of me --
HUB: now... nobody's going to burn you, nobody's going to call anybody -- -- who asked you to get that visa?
HUB: don't be afraid. i can protect you. there's nothing to be afraid of.
SAMIR: i'm afraid of going to hell.
SAMIR: his name is tariq husseini. he runs an auto shop. ...on commerce street in red hook.
HUB: my beeper number. anybody messes with you, i'm there in twenty minutes.

ELISE: you're good. 
HUB: you're not so bad yourself.

ELISE: you calling devereaux. 
HUB: didn't get his number. darn. floyd, hub. we need to put something together in a big-ass hurry... where's frank --?... give him a 911.
HUB: -- and find some kind of beat-up car... well, beat it up yourself if you have to... 896 commerce st... it's a garage in red hook... but remember -- -- they're pros.
VAN LOUDSPEAKER: -- all persons without proper authorization must be off the street until seven a.m. failure to comply will result in immediate arrest.

HUB: jesus... 
ELISE: tariq will go to ground.
HUB: we can hit him in less than an hour.
ELISE: hit him hard.
HUB: where are you going?
ELISE: i've got to stash samir someplace safe. go with

HUB: now... i'm gonna... reach... into my jacket... and show you... my shield. 
YOUNG SOLDIER: drop your weapon --!
YOUNG SOLDIER: sorry, sir. somebody's booby-trapping cars... we're all a little spooked.

HUB: yo... 
MECHANIC: que pasa?
HUB: tariq around?

HUB: tariq? 
TARIQ: how can i help you.
HUB: you're tariq husseini?
TARIQ: he's out.
HUB: do you think you could give him a message?
TARIQ: of course.
HUB: tell him the fbi is after him.
TARIQ: you're joking.
HUB: very... slowly... put your hands on top of the table.
HUB: that wouldn't be a racist epithet, now would it? stand up.

HUB: where are the others? 
TARIQ: what others?
PSY-OPS: tariq husseini, this is the united states army. you are surrounded.

SHOTGUN AGENT: -- sir? 
HUB: do as he says.
THE YOUNG MECHANIC: reaches into his overalls.

ACLU LAWYER: -- just want to know if my client's name is on the list. 
YOUNG LIEUTENANT: sir, the list will be updated every twelve hours and posted in the --

FRANK: they got frankie. my kid's here someplace -- 
HUB: frank, slow down --
FRANK: he's only thirteen, for chrissake --
HUB: i'll get him out.
FRANK: they came into my house. my wife told them who i was -- how many times did i put it on the line, hub --? how many times --
HUB: frank --
FRANK: we're american citizens, twenty years. ten years in the bureau -- they knocked her down... and took him. out of my own house.
HUB: it's wrong, frank. what can i say to you, but it's... all... terribly... horribly... wrong. now, come with me.
FRANK: no! i've got to find him. besides, this is where i belong. here. i'm not their sand anymore.
THE LOCKER ROOM: has been transformed in a command post.
DEVEREAUX: -- and his name is haddad?
HUB: frank... haddad. junior.
COL. HARDWICK: his father's a shiite. we're checking him out.
HUB: check this out, pal. his father's a federal agent for ten years.
COL. HARDWICK: don't get in my face, hubbard. i might decide you're an ethiopian.
HUB: and you're just stupid enough to think that's an insult.
DEVEREAUX: if a mistake's been made we'll fix it.
HUB: there is no "if". i'm vouching for this kid. i want him out.
DEVEREAUX: and i said we will look into it.
HUB: you mean, like you're looking into me? surveilling me? breaking up my operations? if i'd known i was going to have to do your job for you i would never have left the army.
DEVEREAUX: there's an fbi office in anchorage, agent hubbard. with me and you'll be learning a hundred and fifty new words for snow.
HUB: tariq husseini is my prisoner. i want to see him.
DEVEREAUX: the prisoner is being interrogated.
HUB: i want to see him.

DEVEREAUX: how long have you been at it? 
ELISE: not long enough, apparently.
DEVEREAUX: how much longer, do you think, before he gives up the other cells --
HUB: he can't give up the other cells if he doesn't know about them.
DEVEREAUX: he knows.
HUB: what about her briefing? the strategy session -- she said the cells don't know about each other, that they -- devereaux ignores him. turns to sharon.
DEVEREAUX: how long before he breaks?
ELISE: at this rate. too long. the theatre was hit nine hours after we took down the first cell.
DEVEREAUX: so -- what other models do we have --

DEVEREAUX: shaking. 
DEVEREAUX: what about it, sharon?
ELISE: -- won't work.
DEVEREAUX: works for the israelis.
ELISE: only in conjunction with sleep deprivation. needs at least thirty- six hours.
DEVEREAUX: we don't have thirty-six hours.
DEVEREAUX: electric shock?
ELISE: the neurotransmitters just shut down.
DEVEREAUX: water?
COL. HARDWICK: palestinian authority is producing good intel using water.
HUB: are you people insane --?
DEVEREAUX: the time has come for one man to suffer in order to save the lives of hundreds
HUB: how about two men? how about three? how about public executions, that might work.
DEVEREAUX: you're welcome to wait outside.
HUB: general... you've lost men, i've lost men... but what you're doing... it doesn't work in belfast. it doesn't work in gaza. and it won't work here. -- what if... they don't want their leader back at all? you said yourself, we don't even have him. maybe what they really want -- is that we herd our children into stadiums. put soldiers into our streets. radicalize people who want to think of themselves as americans. bend the law, shred the constitution. because if we torture him -- and let's call it what it is... you... and i... then the country men like us have sworn to defend. and bled to defend. and died to defend... is gone. and they've won.
DEVEREAUX: i think we have to soundproof the room before we begin.
DEVEREAUX: him out.
DEVEREAUX: let's get this over with.

CHIEF OF STAFF: c'mon in, we're still trying to get the last one down. 
CHIEF OF STAFF: ...the president wants this over with. there's only one way to do that. let the sheik go.
HUB: so we do have the sheik?
CHIEF OF STAFF: you think our government operates as a single coherent entity? devereaux just... pushed the agenda. of course the president was completely unaware of it.
HUB: of course.
CHIEF OF STAFF: now we can't just let him go. america has to stand tall in the world yadda yadda yadda. so what we do is... we let the american justice system do its work.
WIFE: -- honey...?
CHIEF OF STAFF: i'll be right up, darling.
CHIEF OF STAFF: you have kids? they're great. sometimes you just want to... drug them.
HUB: what do you mean, let the justice system do its work.
CHIEF OF STAFF: we don't release him. a judge releases him. you're an fbi man. that's what judges are good at, right? it's not like we've gone after him in proper prosectorial fashion. kidnaping him. holding him in isolation. "fruit of the poisoned tree" -- remember that one from law school? oh, we'll have a big trial. everybody'll get their rocks off... but the fact is -- -- the sheik will walk.
CHIEF OF STAFF: ...and this whole episode becomes nothing more than the news cycle before the next news cycle.
CHIEF OF STAFF: documentary evidence of devereaux's whole operation.
HUB: why me?
CHIEF OF STAFF: because you'll know what to do with it.
HUB: and what about her?
CHIEF OF STAFF: who?
HUB: you know who. how much is she complicit in all this?
CHIEF OF STAFF: ask her.

ELISE: i ran an iraqi network for two years. samir recruited them from among the sheik's followers. i trained them in the north. then we played them back into baghdad, two, three at a time, hiding them in the mosques... 
ELISE: it was gonna be beautiful. -- and then there was a policy shift --
ELISE: -- the new doctrine was: iran will be too powerful if iraq falls apart. and it's not like... we sold them out. exactly. we just... stopped... helping them. and i wasn't allowed to tell them what was coming down. i was ordered not to tell them. -- and they got slaughtered.
ELISE: you've got to understand -- these people... believe. paradise. bliss. to us they're just words. but to them... it's very beautiful, actually. and when you look at their lives, the heartbreak... and what do we do? we think, aha, we can take advantage of that. so i quit. i came home. i just can't... do it... anymore.
HUB: -- but first, you helped them.
ELISE: what do you mean --?
HUB: they were being slaughtered. they needed to get out. but they were on the watch list. so you got them visas. you and samir.
ELISE: i promised we would take care of them. they were working... for us.
HUB: doing what, exactly?
ELISE: i don't know what you mean.
HUB: you said you trained them. tradecraft. subversion. that's what you said, right? only you left something out, didn't you... didn't you, sharon? you taught them how to make bombs.
HUB: -- and now they're here, doing what you taught 'em.
ELISE: and i'm going to have to live with the of that for the rest of my life.

SAMIR: ahhhhhh... 
ELISE: in case you decide to go on walkabout.
ELISE: how did you make contact?
SAMIR: he is afghani. ahhhh. he got word to my uncle at the bath-house. you never met him.
ELISE: but you're sure he'll show up.
SAMIR: sharon, they are all dead but the last cell and they are crazy with fear. just tell me the message and i will pass it on.
ELISE: i need to deliver it in person. believe me, they'll want to hear what i have to say.
OUTSIDE THE CAR: hub and frank glance inconspicuously around.
HUB: you watch the game?
FRANK: kannell was really on.
FRANK: think they'll make the play-offs?
HUB: how's your boy?
FRANK: he's alright. thanks for getting him out.
ELISE: that's samir.
HUB: green is about right.
ELISE: he's terrified. then again, so am i.
HUB: you sure he'll go through with it?
ELISE: if he doesn't he knows i'll give him to devereaux. how's it feel to be on the other end of it?
HUB: i like watching better.
ELISE: this is the endgame, you understand that? if this goes wrong --
HUB: nothing's going wrong.
ELISE: we're the cia, something always goes wrong.
ELISE: i don't suppose there's any way you would trust me to do this on my own? i thought not. well, in case it gets hairy, remember... the most committed wins.
FRANK: i trust her about as far as i can throw her.
HUB: that far?

SAMIR: this is not the way to the bath-house. you said to get a key from my uncle so that we -- 
ELISE: shhhhhh... if you'd stop whining you'd feel the surveillance.

ELISE: wait for the light to turn yellow and then cross against the traffic. 
COL. HARDWICK: -- north on ditmas avenue.
CORPORAL: sound garden's ready.

ELISE: sit. raise your arm. 
SAMIR: what are you doing?
ELISE: they cannot even dream we are being followed, isn't that what you said?

SPEAKER: "-- that we will not be made afraid to walk free in this great city. i say, march across the bridge and into the stadium. demand the release of -- samir is staring at the tv. 
SAMIR: it is all so... tragic.
ELISE: ...they're going to hit the march.
SAMIR: arab and jew, side by side. black and white, christian and muslim --

SAMIR: -- so american. can you imagine a better target? 
COL. HARDWICK: get me devereaux.

ELISE: here. put this on. we don't want our friends sweating too much while they wait. 
COL. HARDWICK: they're getting ready to move. units 1 and 2, on my signal --

FRANK: we've got a problem. 
HUB AND FRANK: pound up the stairs of the building.

FRANK: what the -- hub stares in dread fascination. 
HUB: it's a shroud. and he's out the door in a heartbeat.

ELISE: "...sweating too much while they wait." frank looks up at hub. 
HUB: first she turns off the tv, then she says it.
FRANK: she knew we were listening.
HUB: the hammam.

ELISE: how soon are they coming? 
SAMIR: they'll be here.
ELISE: what are you doing --?

SAMIR: what message do you have for them, sharon? 
ELISE: i'll tell them when they're here.
ELISE: nobody else is coming, is there?
SAMIR: that's right.
ELISE: you're the last cell.
SAMIR: there will never be a last cell. you should listen to the young men in that stadium. it is just beginning.
THE MARCHERS: are streaming down the street.

ELISE: how could i have missed the play -- 
SAMIR: it was the money. you believe money is power. belief is power.
ELISE: -- just tell me we didn't finance your operation...
SAMIR: the world is a wheel. so... what message do you have for me, sharon?
ELISE: they're going to release him.
SAMIR: praise when will he be free --?
ELISE: a few months at most. first, they have to bring him to trial, but -- he turns away from her, opening the hamper.
SAMIR: -- no.
ELISE: -- but... that's what you want, isn't it? why you've done all this --

SAMIR: no. it's not. 
SAMIR: i want you to bleed... as we have bled.
ELISE: samir, the koran preaches --
SAMIR: do not speak to me of the koran, woman. you take our leader. a holy man. you put him in prison for preaching the word of you must learn the consequences of trying to tell the world how to live.
ELISE: but it's over, your point's been made, why spill any more blood? those poor people out there in the street, they're marching for your cause...
SAMIR: yes. and they, too, will become its martyrs.
HUB: let her go and you'll live.
SAMIR: move away from the door.

ELISE: shoot. 
HUB: shut up.
ELISE: shoot.

YOU HAVE TO.: you... promised... 
ELISE: no --!!!
SAMIR: it is will.
HUB: if there is a he weeps at the crimes we commit in his name.

HUB: officer down. officer down --! 
ELISE: is... he... dead?
HUB: ...shhhhhhh...
ELISE: ...no... regrets...
HUB: you... knew.
ELISE: i... wondered.

HUB: sharon... sharon -- 
ELISE: ... emma... my name... is emma.
HUB: -- what are you? i don't...
SHARON/EMMA: allah ahkbar. is great --
FRANK: allah ahkbar --
HUB: amen.

TV SOUND BITE: -- "a very moving moment in which the people of a city step forward to declare their courage and solidarity -- 
DEVEREAUX: agent hubbard, do you want to tell me exactly what you mean detaining colonel hardwick and six of my cid staff. because that strikes me as a very peculiar idea of interagency liaison.
HUB: the last cell has been taken down. it was samir. i took him out.
DEVEREAUX: what makes you so sure he was the last cell?
HUB: sharon.
DEVEREAUX: sharon is not trustworthy.
HUB: sharon is dead. she gave her life. this is a writ from the us district court releasing all those being held here without habeus corpus.
DEVEREAUX: my authority supersedes the civilian judiciary under the decree of martial law. sorry.
HUB: your authority ends now. it's all over.
DEVEREAUX: what's over.
HUB: they're going to release him.
DEVEREAUX: release him?
HUB: the sheik. clear violation of international law, congressional oversight statutes, a couple of treaties, the federal perjury statute, and my favorite, the logan act, for conducting your own personal foreign policy. i know the whole story, general.
DEVEREAUX: you don't know poor suffering sharon and her poor suffering people. it's called "going native" -- the most elementary error of an intelligence operative and she made it. she had all of you working for her and she was working for them without even knowing it. and now they're getting exactly what they want, which is the sheik will be back in the mix. but ten times as strong, because now he's the big man who stood up to the americans. i did what was necessary. i make no apologies. if you think you're going to be able to use that file against me, you know even less about politics than i imagined.
HUB: general. i'm not in politics. you can have this back. i won't use it.
DEVEREAUX: because you don't have the balls. did you expect me to get all weepy with gratitude? you serve your country. is there anything else? hub would love to just... clock him. instead:
HUB: i said i wasn't in politics. i'm not. i'm in law enforcement.
HUB: william devereaux, you are under arrest for the torture and murder of tariq husseini under color of authority, united states code title 42, chapter 21, subchapter 1, sections
1983.: surrender your weapon.

