speaker1: says here they got slips in honolulu. 325 a month. utilities included. that's not bad. 
speaker1: but i gotta get at least a forty footer. it'll handle rough water better and i'll need the room if i'm gonna live on it.
speaker2: i don't know how you do it.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: how you can think about hawaii now?
speaker1: my heart's in hawaii.
speaker2: you never been there. how can your heart be there.
speaker1: you're tellin' me there's no place you'd rather be other than here?
speaker2: no, i'm saying i just don't know how you can think about hawaii right now.
speaker1: if i was in hawaii right now, i wouldn't be thinking about here. see the difference?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: look, i'm not in hawaii, i'm here. but i don't want to be here, i want to be in hawaii. i can't be in hawaii, therefore i think about it so as to not get depressed about being here.
speaker2: but i'm here, i know i'm here, i don't like being here, but i can't be anyplace else because i look around and i see all this how do you get around that?! that's what i'm asking.
speaker1: focus.
speaker2: focus.
speaker2: it's time. no more hawaii, okay? focus on this.
speaker1: aloha.
speaker2: aloha my ass.

speaker1: hope you don't mind me checkin' you for weapons. 
speaker2: yes i mind. divinci hesitates. this could break the deal.
speaker2: i just don't want no man handlin' me.
speaker1: okay. check him.
speaker2: lotta good hidin' places on this body. check good.
speaker2: careful. it's loaded.
speaker3: he's got nothin'.
speaker2: not bad, not bad. any more where this came from?
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: then maybe we talk again.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: told you there was a lotta good hidin' places on this body.
speaker2: bet you gotta lotta nice hidin' places, too.

speaker1: come on! hurry up! 
speaker2: tears off down the dark street.

speaker1: hey, joe, wake up. get outa the street before you get run over. joe, wake up! 
speaker1: you're in the street, joe. get outa the street.
speaker1: other way, joe.
speaker1: forget it, joe. maybe you're better off right there. i don't think you'd even feel it.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: got your money.
speaker1: put it on the table.
speaker2: tired?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: i'm not.
speaker1: take a sleeping pill. there's some in my purse.
speaker2: you want your money?
speaker1: i already worked for that.
speaker2: this is a bonus.
speaker1: for who?
speaker2: this ain't my fault. this is a failure of our educational system. if you hadn't fallen through the cracks and dropped outa school, you wouldn't be here now.
speaker1: so what's your excuse?
speaker2: i'm in love.

speaker1: keepin' some late hours. 
speaker2: what the you doin'? what're my neighbors gonna think?
speaker1: i apologize. i understand your concerns. but you must understand that, unlike a bank, i cannot rely on a late fee as sufficient encouragement to repay one's debts. i am forced to employ the likes of mr. cutless supreme, whom i might add, contributes significantly to my overhead. i am the real loser here. and i am concerned about your sincerity in repaying the twenty- seven thousand, nine hundred forty- two dollar gambling debt that is one week past due. what can you do to reassure me of your good intentions?
speaker2: i can make your life miserable that's what i can do.
speaker1: look at me. do i have a wife and three kids? do i have a good job at ibm? am i a handsome guy? no, no and no. i loan money at excessively high interest rates to pricks like you who can't control their urges to lose big money playing cards and then i am forced to stay up all night trying to convince them that i have needs, too. the point of which is, i already have a miserable life. so don't threaten me you lousy bag of cat
speaker1: all i'm askin' is that you be responsible. is that unreasonable?
speaker2: four thousand is all i got.
speaker1: i am proportionally reassured. you purchased yourself an extension.
speaker2: cutless supreme, what kind of name is that?
speaker3: it was the car my daddy stole to take my momma to the hospital, but the cops stopped him and shot him dead in an alley before he could explain. i was born in the back seat.

speaker1: another day, another body. where you wanna start? 
speaker2: a hit?
speaker1: looks like. could be gang related.
speaker1: happened sometime last night, early morning, two, three o'clock. african- american male, looks like in his thirties. but even that's a guess. half his head is on the upholstery.
speaker3: any witnesses?
speaker1: oh, sure, hundreds.

speaker1: ...three shotgun shells, twelve gauge. 
speaker2: three shotgun shells, twelve gauge.
speaker3: heard you got a gang related. lucky guy, divinci. you get all the pretty ones.
speaker4: one less drug store on the street.
speaker2: and the world is a safer place.

speaker1: wanna go for a ride? 
speaker2: you think you could describe the driver? you bought it?
speaker1: as of last night, i've got the down. just picture me under swayin' palms with a mai tai.
speaker2: uh-huh. you're gonna buy it, no when?
speaker1: just a phone call away.
speaker2: that's really great, man.
speaker2: uh-huh, okay... how tall was he?

speaker1: you got primary on the drug related this morning on 27th. 
speaker2: i'm workin' it up now.
speaker1: who's your second? in my office. both of you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: now.
speaker3: what the -- divinci motions "keep calm."

speaker1: detectives divinci and rodriguez, this is richard simms. he's with the d.e.a. he wants to ask you some questions about your case. 
speaker2: what's the occasion?
speaker3: you get an i.d. on the victim?
speaker4: we're waitin' for prints.
speaker2: car was registered to --
speaker3: -- anchor imports. 81 el dorado. black.
speaker2: if you got all this, what d'you want from us?
speaker3: ...the man in the car is lionel hudd.
speaker4: how d'you know that? what's goin' on here?
speaker3: hudd was dea, undercover.

speaker1: shut up and listen to me! 
speaker1: they could be watchin' us right now you so shape up! you got it?! i want you to nod!
speaker1: get the up!
speaker1: get in the car!

speaker1: there's no reason to panic. 
speaker2: no reason to panic? did you say no reason to panic!
speaker1: stop being an we're the cops on the case. it's our case. we are going to find the killers.

speaker1: all they want is someone to go down for the crime, right? do we care who goes down for the crime? no. as long as someone goes down for the crime. it's a slot that's gotta be filled. 
speaker2: we killed a cop, doesn't that bother you?
speaker1: of course it bothers me. what d'you want me to do, turn myself in? well i'm not. that's the risk we take everyday, somebody might pop us, especially undercover like that. so he got popped. it happens.
speaker2: not by other cops!
speaker1: i patted him down! he wasn't wearin' a wire, he had no badge, no gun, how was i supposed to know?!
speaker1: look, i feel just as bad as you do, but we gotta start thinkin' about us here. the important thing is we don't lose control of the case. we can never lose control of the case. whatever evidence there is goes through us. we lay down the trail. make it nice and logical. we're the teachers and two and two can add up to five if it's our classroom.
speaker2: what're you talkin' about, are you sayin' we stick somebody with this?
speaker1: evidence points wherever we want it to point. we can provide so much evidence, even the we pick will think he killed him.
speaker2: you got some in mind?
speaker1: just don't worry. we'll find a killer. there's lots of 'em out there.

speaker1: ain't my gun. 
speaker2: never is, is it.
speaker1: that ain't my gun.
speaker2: got your prints on it.
speaker3: where were you friday night?
speaker1: friday night... last friday night?
speaker3: where were you?
speaker1: whatever you think i did went down last friday night?
speaker2: better have a good alibi, james, or it's good ali bye-bye.
speaker1: i was in jail you assholes. check it out. all night. what a couple a dickheads!

speaker1: ain't my gun. 
speaker2: got your prints on it.
speaker1: you i ain't never seen that gun before!
speaker2: where were you last friday night?
speaker1: you. i wanna talk to a lawyer!
speaker2: lawyer's not gonna help you, cortez. all the evidence we got points right to you.
speaker1: did you say last friday night?
speaker1: intensive care, you pindejo gutter shits. and thursday night, and saturday, too. i just got out this morning.

speaker1: ain't my gun. 
speaker2: that's what they all say.
speaker1: wish it was. no better gun than smitty and wes .44 mag with serial numbers filed off. got any bullets?
speaker1: who did i kill?
speaker3: where were you last friday night?
speaker1: you mean, what's my alibi right?
speaker1: i was breakin' and entering. jewelry store on seventh and front, about nine o'clock. not even close to your jurisdiction. i got the rocks to prove it.
speaker1: sorry i can't help ya. but one to five is better than ten to life.

speaker1: montrose lajolla... 
speaker2: we pulled him in last year for knifing that dealer on 32nd.
speaker1: yeah. almost killed him, remember? he'd be good.
speaker3: anybody seen montrose lajolla?
speaker4: he's dead. his life partner killed him in a domestic d about a month ago.
speaker2: 
speaker1: take it easy.
speaker2: this isn't gonna work!
speaker1: nobody said it was gonna be easy. but let's not advertise our despair... okay?
speaker1: divinci.

speaker1: this is our case! not the dea's! 
speaker2: it's been three days.
speaker1: we're not magicians! what the is three days?! this is a murder case! it takes a little bit of time!
speaker2: when a federal undercover officer goes down, it's never a murder case! i don't like the dea on my any better than you like 'em on yours. but this is personal for them and they want answers. forget your other cases and get something, anything that i can give to them. the last thing i want is the f.b.i. on my back, too.
speaker1: we've got a couple leads. we need a little more time.
speaker2: i can't hold 'em off much longer.
speaker3: this is no way to run an investigation.
speaker2: let me tell you both something, if you don't solve this quick, they're gonna start askin' why? and they'll be lookin' to blame somebody in this department. so my advise to you is, get something fast or turn over what you've got and get outa the way.
speaker1: how much time we got?
speaker2: a couple days. the funeral's this afternoon.
speaker3: what funeral?
speaker2: for agent hudd. simms wants you there.
speaker1: what for? we didn't know him.
speaker2: how the do i know?! it's dea, it's their thing. you're the cops on the case, i suppose they want you to know what a great guy hudd was so you'll work all that harder to find his killer. just go. it'll reassure 'em how much you care and keep 'em off my ass.

speaker1: -- and it is too easy to say that he was a good man in his job because he gave more than most. and it's too easy to say that he was a good man in his community because he gave more than others. and it's too easy to say he was a good man at home with his family because he was always there when they needed him. special agent lionel hudd was not just a good man, he was an extraordinary man. and his death shall not be in vain. camera finds divinci and rodriguez at the back. rodriguez 
speaker2: don't humpty dumpty on me.
speaker3: what's that mean?
speaker2: your cracks are startin' to show.
speaker3: divinci sees simms approaching from the side.
speaker2: get your balance. here comes the king.
speaker4: glad you came... anything break?
speaker2: nothin' to brag about. but we've got a couple new leads we're followin'.
speaker4: ...look, normally we'd be all over this, but your captain seems to think you can do the job. it's your territory. i guess you know it better than anybody. and that can be worth a lot. but you understand... we won't wait forever.
speaker2: just outa curiosity... what happened to his backup? you guys use backup on undercover don't you?
speaker4: it was a new lead. hudd was afraid backup would blow his cover. he was supposed to check in ten minutes after the deal went down. he never checked in.
speaker3: we want this one as bad as you do. a cop's a cop. we're in this together, right?
speaker4: that's why i asked you to come here. just so you knew that.

speaker1: he didn't have backup. you believe that?! what a 
speaker2: i don't think we should criticize that particular decision of his.
speaker1: i don't care what the reasons are, you don't play lone ranger on a drug buy. you're just askin' for it. that's all i'm sayin'.
speaker2: i don't trust those bastards. they're not waitin' for us. that's they're runnin' their own investigation. i know it!
speaker1: let 'em. the gun, the coke came from evidence. the car came from impound. so what's to find?
speaker2: that's what i'm afraid of. there's nothing for them to find. we were too good.
speaker1: so what're you worried about?
speaker2: nobody is that good.
speaker1: except us.

speaker1: i think this is breaking and entering, isn't it? 
speaker2: i work homicide, i don't deal with that
speaker1: learn anything you didn't already have on file?
speaker2: yeah. you surprise me sometimes. here i think you're just a hard case and i discover you've got a heart of gold. you're an organ donor. that's really nice. the only problem is, they'll never use your best parts.
speaker1: i'll make sure you get them.
speaker2: hey, don't get me wrong. i was just surprised that we had something in common... besides what we have in common.
speaker1: do everybody a favor, if you're gonna donate your heart, make sure it goes to science. most people want one that beats.
speaker2: cynthia... pretty name. what do the first three letters spell?
speaker1: don't get so clever. it's out of character.

speaker1: what's so interesting up there? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: then why's it got all your attention?
speaker2: i'm thinkin', that's all.
speaker1: about us?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good.
speaker2: what if i was thinkin' about us?
speaker1: don't waste your time.
speaker2: what if i was?
speaker1: where's it gonna get us?
speaker2: maybe i got plans.
speaker1: i don't wanna hear 'em. plans just make you think somethin's gonna get better. i'm fine now. i don't need to get screwed up waitin' for something good to happen.
speaker2: i just want you to know, love is important to me.
speaker1: me, too.
speaker2: but more important is loyalty. nothing is more important than that. not love, not anything. because loyalty is about respect. you can talk about love all you want, but without respect it's empty. i mean the first thing that goes in a marriage is respect. and once it's gone, forget the love. so i am telling you, i am loyal to you. like i'm loyal to my partner. we are closer than blood. and i trust him with my life.
speaker1: why're you telling me this?
speaker2: when you asked if i was thinkin' about us and i said i wasn't, i just want you to know that i do.
speaker1: just don't ask me to marry you.
speaker2: why aren't more women like you?

speaker1: what've we got here? 
speaker1: where were you last friday night?

speaker1: what's your name? 
speaker2: your name, what's your name?
speaker3: ...joe...
speaker2: where'd you get the gun, joe?
speaker2: it was in your pocket, joe, your coat pocket. you must keep it for protection, right?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: sure you do, joe. everybody needs protection. especially a guy like you lives on the street, right?
speaker2: put it back in your pocket, joe. you don't have to worry about me, i'm not gonna hurt you.

speaker1: wake up, joe! i want you to look at something. out the window, joe. look out the window. 
speaker1: this is where it happened, joe. i want you to remember it. this is where you killed him
speaker1: you remember it now? how you shot him through the head? you remember it?
speaker2: i... don't...
speaker1: you will.
speaker3: -- tears off down the street.

speaker1: is that any way to answer the phone? 
speaker2: divinci, it's quarter to six.
speaker1: i know what time it is, i'm not the one in bed. i need the photos of the scene.
speaker2: now?
speaker1: i got a suspect. but he can't remember all the details. he needs a little help. and i thought, since you're my partner, you might jump at the opportunity to lend me a hand.
speaker2: he doesn't remember last friday?
speaker1: he doesn't remember a lotta fridays. bring the shots and pick up a fifth of vodka. make it two.

speaker1: time to get up, joe. 
speaker1: i want you to look at something.
speaker1: there's the guy and the street and the car. you remember how you shot him.
speaker1: you don't remember? that's not what you told me last night.
speaker1: if you remember you can have a drink.
speaker1: but you gotta remember how you saw him driving toward you and you were in the street and you were afraid he was going to hit you so you had to shoot to protect yourself. you remember now don't you?
speaker1: and where's your gun, joe, where do you keep your gun?

speaker1: why'd you kill him? 
speaker2: i... don't know...
speaker1: it was your gun.
speaker2: ...i don't have a gun.
speaker3: yes you do. in your pocket.
speaker2: ...i'm tired.
speaker3: i know, joe, it's tough to remember things you don't wanna remember. what about your last name, joe. you got a last name?
speaker1: come on, joe, everybody's got a last name.
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker1: don't with us, joe. we're trying to help you. what's your last name?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: come on, we're all tired here, joe. just give us your last name.
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker3: ...okay, fine, what's in a name? but you remember the gun, right, in your pocket.
speaker3: and you remember that you told me you thought he was going to hit you, right? that's why you shot...
speaker2: ...yeah.
speaker3: how'd it happen, joe, tell me how it happened. you saw him driving toward you --
speaker2: -- i saw him driving toward me --

speaker1: divinci leans close to joe from behind now. 
speaker2: you ran.

speaker1: he was going to hit me... i was scared... he was going to hit me. 
speaker2: that's why you shot him.
speaker1: that's why i...
speaker3: ...shot him.

speaker1: it's the middle of the day. 
speaker2: just talk.
speaker1: since when?

speaker1: i need you to do something. 
speaker2: good, i need the money.
speaker1: this isn't a deal. where you goin'?
speaker2: i got perishables, okay?
speaker1: the guy we did the last deal with is dead.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: somebody popped him that night, probably when he tried to unload the stuff. i don't know.
speaker2: does anybody --
speaker1: -- don't worry, there's no connection. we got the guy who did it.
speaker2: you scared the outa me.
speaker1: we just need you to do one thing.
speaker2: ...what?

speaker1: he'll be third from the left. don't up. third from the left. 
speaker2: what'm i supposed to say?
speaker1: just look at 'em and then look at the man the third from the left and say, it's him.
speaker3: and i'll say, are you sure?
speaker1: and you say, absolutely. no question.
speaker2: this is all i need to do right?
speaker1: we have a signed confession. you i.d. him, he's goin' straight into the can.
speaker2: okay, okay. but this is it. i'm not doin' anything more than this.
speaker1: hey, it's a done deal.

speaker1: stop and face front. 
speaker2: lift your heads, look straight.
speaker3: take your time. try and remember his face.
speaker4: i know him.
speaker3: if you can identify the man --
speaker4: i know him.
speaker3: just tell us which one.
speaker4: no. i know him.
speaker5: what's the problem?
speaker3: there's no problem! do you see him up there?!
speaker4: you don't understand.
speaker6: hey, come on, do it or don't!
speaker2: no talking.
speaker3: pick the out!
speaker4: third man from the left.

speaker1: you mind telling me what that was all about?! 
speaker2: i know him. he hangs around my building. he lives in the alley or something.
speaker1: you don't think people that hang around your neighborhood can kill somebody. well let me tell you something. you don't live in a great neighborhood.
speaker1: just sign the paper.
speaker2: what paper?
speaker3: you picked a man out of a lineup, you have to sign that you did that so they don't think we made it up.
speaker2: now why the would they think something like that?
speaker1: sign it.
speaker2: you said all i had to do was pick him out.
speaker1: this is part of it. just sign it and you're done.
speaker2: how come you're so sure it was him?
speaker3: christ!
speaker1: he confessed.
speaker2: 
speaker3: we got it in writing.
speaker2: he didn't do it.
speaker1: how the d'you know that? were you with him at the time?! you have a good alibi for him?!
speaker3: maybe she was blowing him!
speaker2: better him than you.
speaker1: take it easy.
speaker3: fine, i got nothin' at stake here.
speaker1: this is what they call an open and shut case. he did the kill and he's going down. don't make the mistake of thinking you know the right thing to do.

speaker1: doe? 
speaker2: he wouldn't give us his last name.
speaker1: he signed a confession but he wouldn't give you his last name?
speaker3: he said he couldn't remember it. he's a head case.
speaker4: you run prints?
speaker2: no priors.
speaker5: ballistics match?
speaker2: we're waiting. but a forty-four was used in commission. he had a forty- four on him.
speaker4: it went down pretty quick.
speaker3: it's our street.
speaker6: i think they did a helluva job.
speaker1: goddammit!
speaker1: some piece a blows him away for nothing!
speaker1: i'm sorry. hudd was too good for this to happen... i just didn't think he'd go down this way.
speaker1: good work. thanks.
speaker6: do me a favor. make sure this one sticks. i don't want the d.e.assholes back in here.

speaker1: word is he killed a dea undercover... word is he shot him in the face... word is he signed a confession. 
speaker2: word is everyone's entitled to a defense... no matter how guilty they are.
speaker2: oh

speaker1: he's detoxing. i gave him something to help him through it. 
speaker2: can i talk to him?

speaker1: joe, can you hear me? 
speaker1: i'm elliot goff. i'm your attorney... do you understand what i'm saying? joe's eyes close. leaving elliot in the dark.

speaker1: george and carol were watching a movie when he entered the living room and opened fire. george was killed instantly, hit in the face. carol died later of three bullet wounds to her chest. 
speaker1: then the defendant, in his effort to cover up the crime, doused them with lighter fluid and set the house on fire... carol was still alive.
speaker1: ladies and gentlemen of the jury we will prove to you, beyond any reasonable doubt, that the defendant, clyde david dunner, is guilty of two counts of murder in the first degree.
speaker2: the defense may now proceed.
speaker3: -- christ!
speaker4: -- i don't know where?
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker4: they looked all over --
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker3: they can't find the murder weapon.
speaker1: what're you talking about?
speaker3: dunner's .44. they can't find the gun!
speaker4: they lost it or something. misplaced it, i don't know. they can't find it anywhere.
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: the dunner gun, you used the dunner gun?! 
speaker2: this is not my up! our shooting was supposed to be gang-related and unsolved! only because we tagged a undercover cop do we need the .44 for evidence! otherwise, we never woulda needed it. so don't point your finger at me!
speaker1: alright, alright... but how are we supposed to explain how the same gun was used in two murder cases by two different killers when it was supposed to be in police custody?!
speaker2: we don't explain it. it's not our fault they lost the evidence. ballistics are already complete in dunner's case. all we need is another gun.

speaker1: all my merchandise is in top condition. untraceable. the best money can buy. 
speaker1: it's got good knock down, but it's slow. unless you have a preference for revolvers, i suggest a nine millimeter auto. they are more expensive, but what they cost in money, they save in time.
speaker2: the .44.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: you look like police.
speaker1: no offense.

speaker1: joe, i'm elliot, we met the other... well, you weren't in very good shape. you look much better. 
speaker1: have a chair. we need to talk.
speaker2: about what i did.
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: joe, before we get into what happened that night, i'd like to check a couple of things first. joe is your first name, i assume joseph?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: what about doe? is that what you told the officers your last name was?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: what did you tell them your last name was?
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker1: well, is doe your last name?
speaker2: i'm not sure.
speaker1: do you know what your last name is?
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker1: joe, i'm your attorney, i'm here to help you. it doesn't matter if you give the court your last name or not, they will still put you on trial. do you understand?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: so there's no reason to try and hide your identity. what is your last name?
speaker2: i would tell you if i could remember.
speaker1: joe smith, joe jones, joe dimaggio...
speaker2: ...i don't think so.
speaker1: okay. look, we'll move on. you understand the charges against you. they're serious. and if you are found guilty, you could go to prison for a very long time.
speaker2: maybe i should.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: go to prison. i killed him. i didn't mean to. but he was going to hit me.
speaker1: yes, i know, i read your confession. joe, if you really felt your life was in danger, we might be able to use self-defense as our argument. but before we get into that... do you have any family, joe? any friends?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: joe... do you know what a psychiatrist is?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: have you ever seen a psychiatrist?
speaker2: ...i'm not sure.
speaker1: joe, you don't remember much about yourself.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: ...but you remember the night you shot the man in the car.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: ...because... i can... i'm sorry, i'm not much help.

speaker1: -- and when you approached the suspect in his apartment, did you identify yourself as a police officer? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: did the suspect respond?
speaker2: yes, he did?
speaker1: in what way?
speaker2: he started shooting through the door.
speaker1: the defendant fired six times, until his gun was empty. we would like to show you the weapon he used.
speaker1: and we would like to enter it into court records. it was the same smith and wesson revolver he used to viciously murder george and carol beaman.

speaker1: the prosecution would like to call mr. steven j. allen to the stand. 
speaker2: steven j. allen.
speaker1: mr. allen, would tell the court what you do.
speaker3: i am a lab technician for the police department. one of my duties is to examine weapons used in violent crimes. clyde's attention is on helen's legs. he's bored by the

speaker1: i tested the defendant's revolver and matched the bullets fired to the bullets removed from the deceased. 
speaker2: that ain't my gun.
speaker3: i must remind the defendant that he is not to speak out when --
speaker2: that ain't my gun!

speaker1: we gotta put the right gun back. 
speaker2: we can't put the right gun back! without that gun, they won't convict joe.
speaker1: without that gun they won't convict clyde!
speaker2: i'm not worried about clyde, i'm worried about us!
speaker1: look, joe's never goin' to trial, right. he signed a confession! like you said, this one is open and shut. clyde's the one we gotta worry about. we can't let him go back on the street! he's a psychopath. he'll kill somebody again.
speaker2: how the did that piece of puke know it wasn't his gun?! i don't think he knows his own mother, but he knows his gun!
speaker1: i don't think that's important right now.

speaker1: sorry, divinci, can't do it. 
speaker2: what d'you mean you can't do it? i gotta check something.
speaker1: you gotta get written permission from the chief.
speaker3: since when?!
speaker1: since an hour ago when he came down here and chewed me a new bigger than a three car garage.
speaker2: what's the problem?
speaker1: something about missing evidence or who the knows. i just wanna transfer the outa here.
speaker2: what the hell're we supposed to do?!
speaker1: ask the chief. policy ain't my department!

speaker1: whenever you're ready. 
speaker2: we would like to plead not guilty to the charge of murder at this time for reason of insanity.
speaker3: but i did it.
speaker2: yes, joe. let me handle this.
speaker3: but i signed the confession.
speaker2: yes, joe. don't worry about it. i'm the attorney.
speaker4: your honor, can we have a moment?
speaker1: council may approach the bench.
speaker4: your honor, my colleague's client admits to the killing. i don't see any reason to go through a trial when it's obvious he would like to plead guilty.
speaker2: i don't agree.
speaker4: if he wants to plead guilty, you have to let him plead guilty.
speaker2: not if he's not of sound mind.
speaker4: come on, elliot!
speaker2: i think he's crazy. i know you think he's just putting it on, that's d.a. standard procedure, but i don't think he is. so, your honor, i'm standing by the not guilty because i believe he's incapable of making that judgment.
speaker1: have you had a psychiatrist look at him?
speaker2: yes, your honor.
speaker1: i'll review the findings and make my decision tomorrow.
speaker2: thank you, your honor. besides, i hear there's a good chance of beating the charges for lack of evidence.

speaker1: nobody can connect us to the evidence thing... we're clean there. 
speaker1: the most important one is this dea mess anyway. once that's finished, we're completely in the clear.
speaker2: you know we can't do it anymore.
speaker1: ...yeah, i guess.
speaker2: no, we're through. that's it.
speaker1: good while it lasted though. a hundred grand apiece. not bad for a few nights work.
speaker2: i just wanna get through this.
speaker1: we're gonna get through it. no evidence problems on this one.
speaker2: i hope not... i don't know, frank, lately i been thinkin'... maybe what we did wasn't such a good idea.
speaker1: hey, we took out a few scumbags, that's it. nobody's ever gonna miss those shitheels. they were all pieces of garbage. not one of 'em had a sheet less than a mile long. drugs, extortion, assault. they were all guilty as and still on the street, you know that.
speaker2: except the cop.
speaker1: yeah, except the cop. that's part of the job. could just as easily have happened to you or me.
speaker2: but we're cops, you know? we up.
speaker1: we up once. once outa ten. that's not bad. i'm sorry, okay? i'm sorry. he was in the wrong place at the wrong time, what can i say. i'm not goin' down for it.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: look, if we got paid a decent salary we wouldn't be tempted by this, right? and what happens when we retire? you think our pension's gonna take care of us? no. we are on our own. i mean all i want in life is a fishing boat, a beach, a couple drinks and some hawaiian music. that ain't much for twenty years putting murdering behind bars. i mean, the dealers, the pimps, the killers, they got no rules. we got all the rules. it ain't fair. that's all i'm sayin', it ain't fair... for awhile, we made it fair.
speaker1: quit thinkin' you're a bad guy. you're not a bad guy. you made one mistake. let it go.
speaker2: do you think we're corrupt?
speaker1: hey, i never took a bribe in my life.
speaker2: me either.
speaker1: nobody ever bought me.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: no way. even the thought makes me sick. and what we did has nothing to do with being corrupt. it's two completely different things. don't get 'em confused.
speaker2: i guess you're right.
speaker1: i'm telling you. it's nothin' to do with corrupt.
speaker2: i'm worried, that's all.
speaker1: hey, you gotta worry a little. it's natural. just don't lose your sense of humor.
speaker2: my sense of humor, right.
speaker1: the problem with people is, nobody gives a about makin' the world a better place. you and me, i don't care what anybody says, we made the world a better place. no matter what happens. there are ten less drug dealin' on the street today because of us. they're not plea bargainin' their way back onto the street, they're not clogging up the courts, and they're not costing the tax payers a penny because they're not in prison. they were garbage. and there's nothin' wrong with takin' out the garbage.
speaker2: so, you think you'll get back with caroline?
speaker1: nothin' i ever do is good enough, you know?
speaker2: never is, never was, never will be.
speaker1: guess i gotta make the effort. it's gonna cost me if i don't.
speaker2: tell me about it. you know how much i got left.
speaker1: you're gonna think i'm an but... i like cynthia. there's no with her. i just like her.
speaker2: i think you just like her.
speaker1: yeah, that, too.

speaker1: the defendant will stand and face the jury. 
speaker2: what is your verdict?
speaker3: we find the defendant, clyde david dunner, not guilty.
speaker4: a!

speaker1: -- when was the last time you saw him? -- uh-huh -- and you haven't seen him since then? 
speaker2: we gotta talk.
speaker1: just a second. calm down. i heard. clyde walked.
speaker2: no! they're takin' joe to trial.
speaker2: they found him mentally unable to plead so his attorney pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity.
speaker1: you gotta be kiddin' me.
speaker2: yeah, that's me, i love to make people laugh. you hear the one about the two cops who popped the undercover

speaker1: i suggest you get out before bob gets here. he doesn't like assholes. 
speaker2: you're cynthia webb.
speaker2: but you are cynthia webb the famous dancer, yes?
speaker3: yeah, yeah, nice try, get out.
speaker2: i liked your show very much.
speaker3: what the hell's this?!
speaker3: a subpoena?! for what?! i didn't do anything!
speaker3: oh oh he served me! he served me!

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: detective divinci?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: this is sergeant gardner down at the station.

speaker1: sorry to call so late, but i got a hysterical woman here says she needs to talk to you about a murder. 
speaker1: i told her i couldn't call you at home, but she said that it was very important. a matter of, you know, life and death.
speaker2: what's her name?
speaker1: cynthia.
speaker2: tell her to wait, i'll be right down.
speaker3: what the hell're you doing?
speaker2: i gotta go down to the station.
speaker3: now? what time is it?
speaker2: go back to sleep.
speaker3: frank, this is no way to repair our marriage, you know?

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: frank, i can't do this. he came to the club. you gotta --
speaker1: not here!

speaker1: what're you talkin' about? 
speaker2: they want me in court.
speaker2: you promised me i wasn't gonna have to do anything! what the is goin' on?!
speaker2: i can't do this, frank. i can't go into court. i'm gettin' outa here!
speaker1: you are not getting outa here!
speaker2: well i can't go to court! that's not

speaker1: fine. think away. 
speaker2: look, you're a witness, that's all. you got nothin' to worry about. you saw something happen --
speaker1: -- what?! what did i see?!
speaker2: i will tell you everything you gotta know. you understand? everything. you will know exactly what to say.
speaker3: pulls quickly out of the parking garage.

speaker1: hi, joe. you're looking much better. 
speaker2: i guess jail's been good for me. elliot nods, motions for joe to take a chair.
speaker1: trial date's been set for thursday.
speaker2: i've been thinking about what i did... and i don't think it's right that i try getting off.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: i want to plead guilty. i killed a man and i should be punished.
speaker1: ...i'm a little surprised.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: nobody ever wants to be punished for what they've done. it's just a new concept. but i still think our defense is reasonable. i don't believe, under the condition you were in, that you were responsible for your actions.
speaker2: but why was i carrying a gun? i had no right to carry a gun.
speaker1: if you hadn't been carrying the gun, you might be dead.
speaker2: and he might be alive.
speaker1: i understand... can i think about this?
speaker2: no. i've made up my mind.

speaker1: what if she takes off? 
speaker2: then we got no witness puts him at the scene.
speaker1: and what happens if she testifies and nobody believes her?
speaker2: perjury, maybe. but that's a fifty fifty. they might believe her.
speaker1: frank, she's a stripper for chrissake, who's gonna believe her. i don't believe her when she's telling the truth!
speaker2: what?
speaker3: ahh, we got two bodies out here and three more in the house.
speaker2: so?
speaker3: i was just wondering if you were gonna be the primary on this one, that's all.
speaker2: yeah, yeah, we're comin'. just give us some room.
speaker1: she could blow the whole thing. she could tie us in and that would be it. we'd be fried.
speaker2: if it looks like she's gonna crumble we'll take steps.
speaker1: what steps?
speaker2: one more chalk outline more or less in this city who's gonna know?
speaker1: oh frank.
speaker2: hey, hey, you think i like this?!
speaker1: we just can't go around killin' everybody!
speaker2: just a second. look around. whatta we got here? two stiffs on the street, shot to three more inside. that's five chalk lines in one night in one deal in one neighborhood in one city. let me fill you in on some statistics, we're not killin' everybody. look, this is strictly last resort. okay? but let's not kid ourselves. if push comes to shove, somebody has to go down. if you got another candidate, i'm willin' to listen.

speaker1: cynthia webb? 
speaker2: ...yeah.
speaker1: i'm richard stein with the district attorney's office. you're a witness in a case we're handling and i'd like to talk to you as soon as possible.
speaker1: ms webb?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: any chance we could get together today?
speaker2: i'm ah... pretty busy.
speaker1: it won't take long. will you be home about two? ms webb?
speaker2: yeah, okay... two.
speaker1: good. let me make sure i've got your correct address.

speaker1: mr. baylor is here. 
speaker2: arthur.
speaker3: nathan. how are you?
speaker2: good, arthur, thanks. would you like some coffee, juice.
speaker3: no, i'm fine.
speaker2: well, this is all a bit of a mystery. you certainly got my attention with your phone call. what's this all about?
speaker2: is there something you want me to see?
speaker2: oh my

speaker1: cynthia. 
speaker1: 
speaker1: 
speaker2: divinci?
speaker2: richard stein, d.a.'s office.
speaker1: oh, yeah, sorry. i didn't expect -- what're you doing here?
speaker2: i have to talk with cynthia webb. a witness in -- well, wait, aren't you and detective rodriguez on this one?
speaker1: yeah, yeah, that's why i'm here. i wanted to go over some of the details.
speaker2: me, too. is she there?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i was supposed to meet her at two. do you know her?
speaker1: what d'you mean?
speaker2: well, i just mean, if she's not here... you were... ...inside.
speaker1: oh, yeah, the legal thing. well, she's a witness in a murder case. and when they don't answer a knock and the door's open, it's my experience, you know. i like to make sure there's no dead bodies layin' around. don't tell on me.
speaker2: no, no, of course not... well, maybe i should wait. she might be stuck in traffic or something.
speaker1: yeah. if she shows up, let me know. i'd like to talk to her, too.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: see you in court.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: elliot goff?
speaker1: arthur baylor?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: arthur baylor, oh my i ahh, would you ahh... are you here to see me?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: william. 
speaker2: ...yes.

speaker1: what are you telling me?! 
speaker1: she missed the appointment? she forget you were coming? what?!
speaker2: if you want my best guess, i'd say she split.
speaker1: she split, our witness split... can't we keep our evidence and witnesses from disappearing around here? i mean what do i have to do, lock them in the trunk of my car? what the is going on?! i want that back here and on the stand or in jail!
speaker2: i'll get her.

speaker1: -- yeah, uh-huh. why you think he'd go there? 
speaker2: we need to talk.
speaker1: just a second.
speaker2: not just a second, now!
speaker1: i'll call you back. what d'you want, divinci?
speaker2: i got a witness who took off. i gotta get her back. i don't got a lotta time.
speaker1: you're the police. what're you comin' to me for?!
speaker2: don't ask questions, you just find her!
speaker1: where've i seen her before?
speaker2: she dances.
speaker1: yeah, right, okay. so what'd she take off for?
speaker2: i said --
speaker1: -- i know what you said, but you want me to find her i gotta know why the she took off! so i know where not to look! okay?!
speaker2: ...she's supposed to testify. she got scared, thinks somebody might kill her, so she's hidin'. that's why i want you to find her. if somebody is tryin' to pop her, i don't want anyone knowin' where she is. manny eyes divinci. he doesn't believe anything anybody tells him. especially in his business.
speaker1: how long i got?
speaker2: two days.
speaker1: two days!
speaker2: find her, puss head.
speaker1: sure, detective. always like to help out the police whenever possible!

speaker1: isn't that arthur baylor? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what's he doing here?
speaker2: what the hell?
speaker3: hear ye, hear ye. all rise, face our flag and recognize the principles for which it stands. the criminal court, department g is now in session. the honorable harold w. pine presiding.
speaker3: please be seated and come to order.
speaker3: the people versus joe doe in case number 95-24705.
speaker4: before we proceed, i'd like to ask the defense if there's anything this court should be made aware of.
speaker5: yes, your honor. i have joined the defense in the representation of mr. william dane mccall, otherwise known to this court as joe doe.
speaker5: i have represented the mccall family for several years before william mccall's disappearance seven years ago. it was assumed that he had died, but since he has reappeared under these tragic circumstances, i would ask this court for a continuance to allow the defense to prepare adequately in light of his real identity now being known.
speaker4: how long do you need.
speaker5: one week should be sufficient.
speaker4: any objection to a week's continuance by the state?
speaker2: i don't... believe so, your honor.
speaker4: then i grant a one week continuance. we will start the proceedings next monday morning.

speaker1: -- but william mccall shunned the business world and turned his life to medicine, receiving his medical degree from harvard in 1969. once again he turned his back on the established norm and spent several years in africa performing organ transplants for the poor. 
speaker1: christ, this is who you picked? a surgeon who performs organ transplants on poor africans?!
speaker2: he was living in the street! how the was i supposed to know he was a doctor?!
speaker1: he's not a doctor! you picked a saint to pin a murder on!
speaker1: when we pick 'em, we really pick 'em. we shoulda just picked up the pope.
speaker2: -- he disappeared seven years ago on september 19 two weeks after the tragic death of his wife and two young children in a multiple vehicle accident. at the time it was assumed that he had returned to africa, but that was never confirmed. what william mccall has been doing for seven years is now the mystery that the court will try to help unravel.
speaker2: alright, alright, let's think here. what's the worse case scenario?
speaker1: are you asking me if i can think of something worse than what we've done that we can still do, or something worse that might happen to us if this all blows up and we are convicted and sent to jail and die in the electric chair and go to hell?
speaker2: work with me here.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm a little on edge. would you repeat the question?
speaker2: even if the doc walks, there's no evidence ties us to it. there's only one person who can connect us to hudd.
speaker1: okay, fine, i don't wanna argue about it anymore. let's just kill her.

speaker1: we need to talk. 
speaker2: are you with me?
speaker3: no, i'm not with you. are you with me?!
speaker2: you don't know?
speaker3: know what?
speaker2: well this is a good one. you're a cop and you don't know.
speaker3: stop it.
speaker2: cops got her. ain't that a gas. cops got her, you're a cop, and you gotta find out from me. it's a crazy world we live in, don't you think?
speaker3: cops?! what cops?!
speaker2: i don't know what cops. all i know is, my people got to her sister's place and she was already gone. her sister said some cops took her. i thought it was you!
speaker4: what an
speaker2: you're a good judge of character.

speaker1: -- look, she's our witness, if she's in custody, somebody better tell me! 
speaker1: anything?
speaker2: nothin'. nobody knows nothin'. the d.a. thinks she's gone. d.e.a. doesn't know
speaker1: if she was bein' held by police, we'd know.
speaker2: unless she said somethin'.
speaker1: if she said something we wouldn't be sittin' here. i think it's that lyin' piece of

speaker1: first trial, huh. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i got one piece of advise. when you break for lunch, don't get the pastrami.
speaker3: time to go.
speaker4: hear ye, hear ye. all rise, face our flag and recognize the principles for which it stands.

speaker1: and when you arrested the defendant, did he deny that he had killed agent hudd. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: can you describe the defendant's condition at the time of his arrest.
speaker2: he was drunk. we could smell the booze on him. but we drew blood. he didn't object.
speaker1: we have the blood test report that shows -- -- that he had four times the legal limit to drive. the people would like to enter this into evidence.

speaker1: -- and you arrested the defendant four days after the killing. what lead you to suspect mr. mccall? 
speaker2: you ask questions. work the neighborhood. find out who was on the street that night.
speaker1: yes, but specifically mr. mccall? he had no previous criminal record.
speaker2: we found someone who'd seen him in the area. so we picked him up for questioning. we didn't expect it to be him. but if someone saw him in the area that night we would want to talk to him. if he wasn't the killer, he might've seen the killer. just routine really.
speaker1: where did you find the defendant?
speaker2: on the street. corner of third and madison.
speaker1: what was he doing?
speaker2: he was passed out.
speaker1: but you knew it was the man you were looking for.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: based on what?
speaker2: his description.
speaker1: who provided you with the description?
speaker2: cynthia something, i think.
speaker1: i believe her name is cynthia webb. according to the statement filed the night she picked him out of the line- up. the name familiar?
speaker2: yes... that's her.
speaker1: where did you find ms webb?
speaker2: on the street. same area.
speaker1: and she agreed to pick the defendant out of a line up.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: where you aware that ms webb disappeared after she was served with a subpoena?
speaker2: yes, my partner and i tried to contact her about the case and were unsuccessful.
speaker1: thank you, detective, that's all the questions i have.

speaker1: to justice in all its forms. 
speaker2: we're not home free yet.
speaker1: without ms webb, there's no place they can go. we still got the confession, the gun, the ballistics... and i don't give a about all this african doctor crap... the man is a drunk and he's been a drunk for seven years. so lets have a drink for drunks.
speaker1: that's the thing about life. you control it or it controls you. most people don't understand that. they try'n blame their fuck-ups on something or somebody else. but it's not like that. i don't wanna hear why your life's a mess. it's a mess cause you're a mess. that simple. they're waitin' to live happily ever after. but after what? after all the happens? well, i got a clue for everybody, the never stops happening. so you deal with it or you get buried in it. i'm not talkin' about you, you know what i'm sayin' here.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: life don't work in mysterious ways. there ain't no mystery to it. you just work it. and you don't take it too serious. you can't take it too serious otherwise you get fragile. and you can't be fragile and have any fun.
speaker2: you think i'm fragile?
speaker1: that's the first sign of trouble, when you start askin' other people.
speaker2: ...i just wish i knew where the she was.

speaker1: -- so i think we'll have to rely on the confession for his description of what happened. he'll never take the stand, even if -- the phone rings. richard picks up. 
speaker1: d.a.'s office... what?... when?... where will -- richard is surprised. he turns to helen.
speaker1: they found cynthia webb.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: well who the was that?
speaker1: i don't know. they hung up.
speaker2: what the is going on?!

speaker1: raise your right hand. 
speaker1: you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help you
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: you may be seated.
speaker3: i know her.
speaker4: she's the woman who identified you.
speaker3: no. i mean i know her.
speaker5: ...how?
speaker3: i'm not sure... i think i lived near her.
speaker6: please state your name for the court.
speaker2: cynthia webb.
speaker6: do you see the man that you identified in a police line-up in this room.
speaker2: yes.
speaker6: is it the defendant, mr. mccall?
speaker2: yes.
speaker6: please describe what you saw the night of september 14th.
speaker2: i was comin' out of an all night minimart --

speaker1: and you're positive the man you saw with the gun is the defendant. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: no further questions. divinci offers her a small smile.
speaker3: miss webb... is it miss?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: miss webb, had you ever seen the defendant before that night, the night you described to us?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: do you know what perjury is?
speaker2: when you lie.
speaker3: when you lie under oath in a court of law. do you know what the penalty for that is?
speaker2: you go to jail.
speaker3: yes... cynthia, have you ever seen the defendant before that night?
speaker1: objection. the witness has already answered that question.
speaker4: sustained.
speaker3: i just want to give the witness the opportunity to remember if she could have seen mr. mccall anyplace else before the night in question.
speaker4: ms. webb, do you understand the consequences of perjury?
speaker2: yes.
speaker4: let's get on with it then.
speaker3: what did you buy the night you went into the mini-mart?
speaker2: what did i buy?
speaker3: you remembered seeing mr. mccall that night and hearing the gunshot and a car crash. i just wondered if you remembered what you bought in the mini-mart.
speaker2: ...shampoo i think.
speaker3: that's all?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: where do you live?
speaker2: 4356 17th street. number 37.
speaker3: is that close to where this mini- mart is?
speaker2: close? sort of.
speaker3: how far would you say?
speaker2: i don't really know.
speaker3: within walking distance?
speaker2: no... i don't think so.
speaker3: did you walk there that night or drive?
speaker2: i ahh... drove.
speaker3: you drove. but when you left the mini-mart you stated that you walked down the street.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: how far?
speaker2: ...to the corner.
speaker1: objection. your honor, i don't see a point to this line of questioning.
speaker4: is there a point?
speaker3: yes, your honor. since this is the only witness, i'm trying to establish what the scene was like that night.
speaker4: try to get there as quickly as possible.
speaker3: and how far away from the corner was the mini-mart? for example was it in the middle of the block, close to the corner, where?
speaker2: in the middle i think.
speaker3: so you walked all the way to the corner. i assume then you were walking back to your car, yes?
speaker2: ...yeah.
speaker3: was there a reason you parked so far away?
speaker2: um... there were lots of cars parked on the street.
speaker3: was there anyone else on the street besides you?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: lots of cars, but no people. any traffic?
speaker2: i don't remember.
speaker3: so you were the only person to see joe on the street that night?
speaker2: i didn't see anybody else.
speaker3: so you heard a gunshot, a car crash and a man running with a gun in his hand.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: what did you do then? did you call the police, 911?
speaker2: i went home.
speaker3: you went home. straight home?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: and you're sure it was joe you saw that night?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: when you went home.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: when you went home you saw joe?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: objection. defense is trying to confuse the witness.
speaker3: i'm not trying to confuse the witness, it's the witness that's trying to confuse the court. i have witnesses who will refute her testimony. witnesses who were on that corner the night of the shooting, who never saw ms. webb, who never heard the gunshot, who never saw joe run past. ms webb saw joe outside her apartment building that night because he lived in the alley next to it. isn't that right, ms webb?
speaker1: objection!
speaker3: when i referred to him as joe, you knew who i was talking about, didn't you. this case is the people versus mr. william mccall. not joe. joe has never been mentioned in this trial. how did you know who i was talking about, ms. webb?
speaker3: ms. webb, how did you know that joe was the defendant?
speaker2: he lived in the alley next to my apartment building.
speaker1: oh
speaker3: why did you lie to this court?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: are you afraid of somebody?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: are you protecting somebody?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker4: answer the questions, ms. webb or i'll be forced to cite you for contempt.

speaker1: she didn't talk. 
speaker2: don't hold your breath.
speaker1: you think she'll talk.
speaker2: i know she'll talk.
speaker1: we'll make it look gang related.
speaker2: problem is we're gonna need another gun.
speaker1: the problem?! have you forgotten? she's in jail. that's the problem.
speaker2: since when is being in jail a guaranty of a long life? you just get a gun.

speaker1: oh i didn't do anything! 
speaker2: everything's fine, manny. i just came to apologize. we need some privacy...
speaker2: just one more favor. i want you to bail somebody out of jail.
speaker1: you're kiddin'.
speaker2: bail's twenty-five thousand.
speaker2: i want her out tonight. and don't tell her who. it's a surprise.
speaker1: and how'm i payin' for this? they don't take american express.
speaker2: i know you know how to exchange that. it's worth a lot more than twenty- five grand. you can keep the change. i want her back in two hours... or i'll nail you for possession.
speaker1: how'd you get to be such a prick?

speaker1: divinci exits. 
speaker2: what a piece of

speaker1: you don't have to say nothin', but... you really a doctor? 
speaker2: ...i was... a surgeon.
speaker1: no no really. a surgeon. i know i'm nobody to judge, but you musta been a smart guy. what the hell's a smart guy like you doin' in here?
speaker2: ...i had an affair with another woman... a nurse at the hospital i worked at. it was nothing... i can't even remember much about her... except my wife found out. we had a fight. she left the house, took the kids... she was hysterical. i should've done something... gone after them, i don't know... they were killed in a car accident about a mile from the house... i've never told anybody that... about why she left.
speaker1: hey, doc, you can trust me. it won't go no farther.

speaker1: you get the gun? 
speaker2: i got it.
speaker1: everything okay?
speaker2: are you kidding? we're going to kill a witness who's in jail because we killed an undercover dea agent. i'm sorry, but this kinda troubles me a little.
speaker1: take off the dress and get back in the game. we gotta do what we gotta do.
speaker2: yeah. i know. let's just get it over with.

speaker1: i don't understand. why can't you tell me who put up the bond? 
speaker2: look, a guy comes in, says bail her out, gives me the money, i do it. that's how i make my living, i bail people outa jail. you wait with me.
speaker1: was it a cop?
speaker2: yeah, right. cops bail people outa jail all the time. doesn't there seem to be a dichotomy there for you?
speaker1: i don't like this.
speaker2: you wanna stay in jail, that's up to you. or you come with me.
speaker1: what'd he look like?
speaker2: you're a stripper right? lotta guys fall in love with your type. but they don't know how to get close, know what i mean? somebody wants you to owe them something. take it or leave it.

speaker1: this is the last time, frank. the last time we kill somebody. 
speaker2: yeah, it's the last time.
speaker1: this'll be eleven, frank. eleven is enough.
speaker2: i get the picture.
speaker1: it was all okay until you shot hudd.
speaker2: what's goin' on here? you mad at me or something?
speaker1: it wasn't my idea to start killing people, frank. that's all i'm sayin'. we're in this mess because you started killing people.
speaker2: drug dealers don't qualify as people. never did, never will. so what the hell's wrong with you tonight? you suddenly worried about where all the money went?
speaker1: i'm just sick of it, that's all.

speaker1: what're you doin'? 
speaker2: i need some fresh air.

speaker1: frank -- 
speaker2: talk to me, okay? just talk to me.
speaker1: i don't know... i owe some money. i don't know how i'm gonna pay it...
speaker2: you gambling again?
speaker1: yeah, yeah... i just couldn't... frank... let's forget about this. let's just get the outa here. we got enough money, let's go. we'll get outa the country or something.
speaker1: what the hell're you doin'?!
speaker2: take off your shirt.
speaker1: what're you talkin' about?
speaker2: just take off your shirt. if there's nothin' to worry about, then i'll apologize. but i'm not gonna argue. take off your shirt now.
speaker1: what is this, you piece of shit?! you don't trust me?! is that it?!

speaker1: ...take off your shirt. 
speaker2: you, you don't trust me.
speaker1: i'm askin' you one more time.
speaker2: you wanna shoot me? shoot me.
speaker1: okay, i'm sorry. you're right. i'm nervous. like you. forget it. this thing... let's just get it over with.
speaker1: i'll just feel a whole lot better when she's dead. then we're off the hook.
speaker2: right.

speaker1: yeah... yeah... i am, i'm a rat... i traded you, frank, i traded you... simms knows everything. 
speaker1: just shoot me, get it the over with! i deserve it! i
speaker2: you're right.
speaker2: ...get out.
speaker1: frank --
speaker2: get outa the car now!
speaker2: this is why you can never -- ever -- lose your sense of humor.

speaker1: i guess we caught you at a bad time. 
speaker2: but we all have problems.
speaker2: oh you shot him, you shot him!

speaker1: divinci musta figured it. i didn't think he'd kill his own partner though. 
speaker2: he's an animal.
speaker3: recorders busted up. but we might be able to salvage some of the tape.
speaker2: i want him. you understand me, i don't care what it takes. i want that sonuvabitch!

speaker1: who the fuck're you?! 
speaker2: ms. webb. we'd like you to come with us.
speaker3: this was the big secret? you're an

speaker1: who set it up? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: it was divinci wasn't it?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: which one pulled the trigger? divinci or rodriguez?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: detective rodriguez is dead. he was shot in the head last night.
speaker1: rodriguez was wearing a recorder. divinci found it. you can do addition, can't you.
speaker2: you're full of
speaker4: just tell us what you know.
speaker2: where's divinci?
speaker1: we don't know. but we're gonna find him.
speaker2: you're gonna find him?
speaker1: get a copy of the tape to bailor. but make sure it doesn't come from us.

speaker1: your attorney's here. 
speaker2: what attorney?

speaker1: hi, cynthia. please sit down. 
speaker2: i got nothin' to say.
speaker1: so i'm told.
speaker3: ...take off your shirt...
speaker4: you, you don't trust me.
speaker3: i'm askin' you one more time.
speaker4: you wanna shoot me? shoot me.
speaker3: okay, i'm sorry. you're right. i'm nervous. like you. forget it. this thing... let's just get it over with. i'll just feel a whole lot better when she's dead. then we're off the hook.
speaker4: right.

speaker1: you're right. 
speaker2: i think you know my client is innocent. that's all i care about, my client. but i understand why you're scared. you're already facing perjury charges. my guess is, your involvement is deeper than that. but i don't really care, i'm not after you... i get nothing if you go to jail. but i think if i help you, i can help my client.
speaker3: ...how?
speaker2: william -- joe -- didn't do it, did he?
speaker2: why don't you sit down.

speaker1: no way! i'm not going to grant that immunity. she lied on the stand, she's protecting somebody. and she's involved. i want them all. 
speaker2: before i leave, let me remind you that you have for a case. if you really care about seeing justice for your dead agent, don't blow this deal. immunity for her testimony is a small price for a bad cop. it's the only way she's going to talk.
speaker2: and william mccall walks, right now, all charges dropped.
speaker1: if what she says is any good, i'll deal. if it isn't, then nobody goes anywhere.

speaker1: how does it feel to be a free man again? 
speaker1: do you remember everything that happened to you? what are your plans?
speaker2: i just want to go back to work.
speaker1: as a surgeon?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: what about the signed confession, did the police coerce you into signing it?
speaker3: i'm sorry, no more questions.

speaker1: good to have you back, will. 
speaker2: ...i'd like to make one stop.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: -- you know, it just didn't make sense, a man wanting to be punished for a crime? how many times does that happen? once in a lifetime, i can tell you. 
speaker2: -- to tell the truth, i had no other witnesses to refute her testimony. but she didn't know that. all we knew was that she was reluctant to testify. you look for signs.
speaker3: my we thought you were dead, you know. it's just incredible that you're here.
speaker4: life moves in such strange ways. oh, i just think what might've happened to you had you not been arrested for killing that poor policeman. you still might be on the street.
speaker5: joe, you look wonderful. after what you've been through... i just can't imagine.
speaker6: when you're ready to come back to work, let me know. i've already spoken to the board, they're ready to re- certify you anytime. i can put you in the emergency sector until you get warmed up. we all want you back. we can't afford to waste someone of your talent.
speaker7: ...i'm ready.

speaker1: i guess you had no choice. 
speaker2: you had to do the right thing.
speaker3: what d'you want?
speaker2: what do i want?
speaker2: why're you asking me that? you gonna grant me three wishes? i don't know where to start. let's see... money would be nice... love would be better... but a little loyalty... you can never get enough of that. ...but we'll start with... money.

speaker1: this is all i've got. 
speaker1: they'll catch you.
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: you wanna bet?
speaker2: they don't have a clue, baby. and you wanna know why? because i am following my heart.
speaker2: and they don't know where that is.
speaker1: so tell me about your plans. i think i'd like to hear 'em now.
speaker2: loyalty is what it all comes down to. nothing holds together when it's gone. and once it's gone, you don't ever get it back... you shouldn't've told 'em.
speaker1: i shouldn't've done a lotta things in my life. but that's not one of 'em.
speaker2: let me tell you something... the only difference between a liar and a witness is that just one of 'em knows what he's doing.

speaker1: shut the door and lock it. 
speaker2: christ!
speaker2: you scared the outa me.
speaker3: lock the door.
speaker3: one more favor, manny.
speaker2: since when did i become such a good guy?
speaker3: i'm takin' some time off. i want a car, here tonight, and a driver. you can do that for your old friend, right?
speaker2: yeah, i can do that. but you are a hot potato. and drivers that don't talk, don't come cheap.
speaker3: i got the money. just put it together.

speaker1: -- come on, hang in there, hold on. 
speaker2: just like riding a bike.

speaker1: leather upholstery, moon roof, cd. what more could you ask for? 
speaker2: better not be a set up.
speaker1: want me to hold your hand?
speaker2: just walk me to the door.

speaker1: i think i'll let you live. 
speaker2: you are a real prince. now how about my money?
speaker1: you never saw me.
speaker2: don't i wish that were true.
speaker2: have a nice trip.

speaker1: head south. get on the interstate. don't break the speed limit. 
speaker1: you know, the one thing about life... you can never lose your sense of humor. without it, you got nothin'.
speaker2: a.

speaker1: -- run the cardioplegia. 
speaker2: she's fibrilating. go on bypass.
speaker3: forceps. just like old times.
speaker2: i wouldn't have done this without you... i owe you.
speaker3: lucky to have a donor. never would've survived the night. have a suture ready.
speaker4: i heard it was a cop's heart.
speaker4: he was shot in the head a couple hours ago.

