speaker1: sheriff wyner... 
speaker2: worms.
speaker1: afternoon, miz munson.
speaker3: afternoon, sheriff. you know the funthes boy?
speaker1: ...mackatee funthes?
speaker3: no no, weemack! mackatee's eldest!
speaker1: oh yeah, believe i do.
speaker3: well, he's a good boy but he done gone down to the costco in pascagoula and got hisself a blastah -- and he been playin' that music!
speaker1: uh-huh...
speaker3: loud!
speaker1: well--
speaker3: "left my wallet in el segundo!"
speaker1: he--
speaker3: songs like that!
speaker1: uh-huh...
speaker3: hippity-hop music!
speaker1: i could--
speaker3: you know they call it hippity-hop music, but it don't make me wanna go hippity-hop!
speaker1: no ma'am--
speaker3: and othar don't like that music neither!
speaker1: it's been disturbin' othar then, has it?
speaker3: how could it help but do! that kind of music! you know what they call colored folks in them songs? have you got any idea?
speaker1: i don't think i--
speaker3: niggaz! i don't wanna say the word. i won't say it twice, i'll tell you that. i say it one time.
speaker1: yes ma'am.
speaker3: in the course a swearin' out my complaint.
speaker1: yes'm--
speaker3: niggaz! two thousand years after thirty years after martin luther king! the age of montel! sweet lord a-mercy, izzat where we at?
speaker1: mm-mm--
speaker3: weemack down to pascagoula buyin' a big thumpy stereo player?! so he can listen to that word in the house next to mine? sheriff, you gotta help that boy!
speaker1: help him?
speaker3: you gotta take an innarest! extend that helpin' hand!
speaker1: well, we're here to help...
speaker3: well bless ya. don't wanna be tried and found wantin'.
speaker1: no ma'am.
speaker3: many many tunkalow parzen, sheriff wyner. many many tunkalow parzen!
speaker1: many what ma'am?
speaker3: you have been tried and found wanting. don't want that writin' on the wall!
speaker1: no ma'am--
speaker3: feast a balthazar!
speaker1: mm-hm.
speaker3: john the apostle said: behold there is a stranger in our midst, come to destroy us!
speaker1: yes ma'am.

speaker1: othar, i went'n complained about weemack, i hope it'll do some good. that boy hangin' by a thread! over the pit! fiery pit! "i left my wallet in el segundo"! 
speaker1: ...sixty-seven years of life, forty- six years of marriage, you mean to tell me you never one time suffered from piles? it's the human condition, most humans anyway. like that ball player said: world's got two kinds of folks -- them that's got piles and them that's gonna get 'em. but you was always healthy as an ox...
speaker1: ...passed on before you got piles. mmmmhmm. thank the lord you wasn't sick. you don't wanna sicken 'n die. no, you wanna pass nice 'n peaceful... go to sleep one night, wake up in the glory land... woof...
speaker1: ...well who's that now, pickles?

speaker1: ma'am? 
speaker2: go get 'im!
speaker1: i do beg your pardon?
speaker2: go get pickles, i didn't let 'im out!
speaker1: pickles...

speaker1: oh, he's up the tree again. your gonna have to shimmy on up. 
speaker2: i am so terribly sorry, madam. but won't the feline eventually tire of his lonely perch and, pining for his master's affection, return on his own initiative?
speaker1: huh? no, he won't come down less you fetch him. he'd set there til gabriel blows his horn if someone didn't shimmy up. up with you now!
speaker2: well then couldn't we perhaps offer him kitty treats and enticements, or if not foodstuffs perhaps squeaky little toys of the kind formerly manufactured in hong kong but now produced in the other so-called "little tigers"...
speaker2: ...of the pacific rim? the point bein', do we have to actually ascend the tree--
speaker1: look, i don't want no doubletalk. if you ain't gonna fetch him down i guess i gotta call the po-lice...
speaker2: police...
speaker1: they ain't gonna be happy. every time they come fetch him down they swear they won't do it no more...
speaker2: no need to call the authorities. i did this often as a youth -- why, i was a positive lemur... here, kitty...
speaker1: don't upset him, now!
speaker2: i wouldn't dream of it... harmless little felix domesticus... come to

speaker1: i thank you, madam, for your act of kindness. 
speaker2: well you let him out.
speaker1: i certainly did and i do apologize no end. allow me to present myself, uh, formally: goldthwait higginson dorr, ph.d.
speaker2: what, like elmer?
speaker1: beg your pardon, ma'am?
speaker2: fudd?
speaker1: no no, ph.d. is a mark of academic attainment. it is a degree of higher learning bestowed, in my case, in recognition of my mastery of the antique languages of latin and greek. i also hold a number of other advanced degrees including the baccalaureate from a school in paris, france, called the sorbonne.
speaker2: sore bone, well i guess that's appropriate. you ever study at bob jones university?
speaker1: i have not had that privilege.
speaker2: it's a bible school, only the finest in the country. i send them five dollars every month.
speaker1: that's very gener--
speaker2: i'm on their mailing list. i'm an angel.
speaker1: indeed.
speaker2: they list my name in the newsletter, every issue. i got the literature here, you wanna examine it.
speaker1: perhaps when my head has recovered from its... buffeting. mrs. munson, are you at all curious as to why i darkened your door, as the expression has it, on this lovely camelia-scented morn?
speaker2: i was wondering, til you let pickles out. then in all the excitement--
speaker1: i quite understand. the fact is that i saw the sign on your window advertising a room to let, and it is the only such sign among the houses of this charming, charming street.
speaker2: yeah, i got a room. i'm lookin' for a quiet tenant. fifteen dollars a week
speaker1: i quite understand. madam, you are addressing a man who is quiet -- and yet not quiet, if i may offer a riddle...
speaker1: ...perhaps you can show me the room, mrs. munson, and allow me to explain.
speaker2: well you can see the room, but i don't like double-talk.
speaker1: you see, madam, i am currently on sabbatical from the institution where i teach -- the university of mississippi at hattiesburg. i am taking a year off to indulge my passion -- i don't believe that is too strong a word -- for the music of the renaissance. i perform in -- and have the honor of directing -- a period instrument ensemble that performs at renaissance fairs and other cultural fora...

speaker1: ...thoo-out central and southern mississippi. we perform on the instruments for which the music was originally composed, in the belief that... that... why, this is lovely... 
speaker2: wait a minute. you got some kind of band?
speaker1: the word "band" would be, in this context, something of an anachronism. though we do play together -- hence the word "ensemble" -- the nature of the music is such that one would hesitate to apply the epithet "band" with its connotations of jangling rhythm and ear-popping amplification.
speaker2: so you don't play hippity-hop, "i left my wallet in el segundo," songs with the titles spelt all funny?
speaker1: madam, i shudder. i quake. the revulsion i feel for modern popular music, and all other manifestations of contemporary decay, is, i have no doubt, the equal of y'own. why, we play music that was composed to the greater glory of devotional music. church music.
speaker2: gospel music?
speaker1: well-inspired by the gospels, certainly. the vintage, of course, is no more recent than the rococo.
speaker2: rococo, huh? well, i guess that'd be okay.
speaker1: but i certainly don't propose to inflict our rehearsals on you. may i enquire -- do you have a root cellar?

speaker1: yes, yes, yes, this looks promising... 
speaker2: little dank, ain't it?
speaker1: oh, indeed, but that only improves the acoustics...
speaker1: ...marvelous. these earthen walls are ideal for baffling the higher registers of the, uh, lute and, uh, sackbutt. that's why so much music of the cinquecento was played in crypts and catacombs. yes, this will do nicely...
speaker1: ...this is perfect. this is more than perfect. i can scarcely contain my glee.
speaker2: you containing it okay.
speaker1: allow me to pay you a week in advance. allow me to pay you two weeks in advance. allow me to pay you a month in advance. i cannot countenance the thought of these charming apartments being tenanted by someone unappreciative of their special je ne sais quoi.
speaker2: that would be a shame.

speaker1: ...you wouldn't believe this sometimes even out here on the casino floor you gonna find sanitary napkin stuck there, tucks, i don't know what the people do while they're gambling here man. 
speaker2: i ain't peelin' funky with my human hands, man. that's a prescription for disease and viruses and attackin' y'insides.
speaker1: you gotta do it. mr. gudge checks everything. man is a motherfuck. -- looka this.
speaker1: ...you keep an eye out, man. i found a hundred-dollar chip once.
speaker2: that, man. i ain't pawin' through used tucks for a fi' dollar chip.
speaker1: i said it was a hundred.
speaker2: man, your guts gonna turn to soup'n leak outcha

speaker1: ...this is where they think on their corporate gudge and them. 
speaker1: ...the lights is ugly but it ain't as many tucks.
speaker1: ...yo, motherfuck! lemme in!
speaker2: what's the password?
speaker1: kiss my ass.

speaker1: this is where they count the dough. you try to take any of it elron there shoot your ass. 
speaker1: ...this place is a pigsty. you a pig, man, nothin' but a squeaky ol' pig...
speaker1: ...you got kocoa krispies in ya uniform man, still got breakfast there and you eatin' lunch.
speaker1: ...you a disgrace before
speaker1: ...you a motherfuck-- oh, hello mr. gudge, how we be this mornin'?
speaker2: funthes. how's the new man?
speaker1: he is a cleaning man!
speaker2: is that a fact.

speaker1: one, mountain! 
speaker1: ...scrub two! scrub three! four, mountain!
speaker2: cut, goddamnit. his canteen fell off.
speaker2: ...props!
speaker2: ...the thing's canteen fell off. it would have been a good take.
speaker1: okay. okay. we're prepared for that...
speaker1: ... mountain, bring otto with the apparatus.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: world war i vintage gas mask. it's authentic. strapped on, of course, so it can't fall off. the animal is free to be as active as he wants, doesn't inhibit his movement, and i think it really sells the whole doughboy thing--
speaker1: it looks like a joke.
speaker2: ...nnnnrnff!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: no, nothing, uh... you're absolutely right, the gas mask is a whimsical concept--
speaker1: how the does it eat when it gets to the kennel rations?
speaker2: well, you're absolutely rightâ–-
speaker1: don't let the client see this.
speaker2: of course not, that would be inappropriate--
speaker1: or the humane
speaker2: no no--
speaker1: they'll shut the spot down, pancake. put the canteen back on. that says he's a soldier. dented tin canteen. just tie the thing to his collar.
speaker2: easiest thing in the world. i just thought -- but the canteen is much better. good concept. let's go with that--
speaker1: what's he doing?
speaker2: well, he's uh... just breathe normally, otto.
speaker1: the dog can't breathe.
speaker2: oh, he can breathe, that thing is -- just breathe normally, otto.
speaker1: the dog cannot breathe! get that thing off him!
speaker2: of course. easiest thing in the world.
speaker2: ...it's on good and tight, i, uh... just breathe normally, otto.
speaker1: get the thing off him!
speaker2: don't have my leatherman. mountain! give me your leatherman! chop chop!
speaker1: get the thing off him! chitra, make sure the humane doesn't come over here! bring him to craft services!
speaker2: good idea! ice water, treats-â–
speaker1: not the dog, you the humane fucker! distract him!
speaker2: right! of course!
speaker1: oh my he's bleeding!
speaker2: no, that's me -- i -- the leatherman... here we go.
speaker1: put up a couple solids here -- i don't want the client seeing this!
speaker2: come on, otto!
speaker1: otto is dead!
speaker2: mountain, have electric run me a stinger! don't give up on me, otto! mountain, i need two live leads!
speaker3: clark, the gennie's a hundred yards away!
speaker2: goddamnit! otto's gonna have brain damage in about ninety seconds! okay!
speaker2: ...kiss of life!

speaker1: delta thirty-seven. on four! 
speaker2: huh!
speaker3: lined up opposite us is a snarling defender.
speaker4: the same back-and-forth pan.
speaker1: okay, epsilon twenty-two! you the man!... hey! butthead!
speaker1: you the man!
speaker5: me the man?
speaker2: huh!
speaker3: the same breathing and count. on "hike!" we sprint downfield.
speaker5: unh... oh no...
speaker5: ...shit...

speaker1: all right dragon lady, give us all the money! 
speaker1: we want that donut money!
speaker2: yao gin nyap!
speaker3: okay papa-san, we want that donut money.
speaker1: and we ain't around, mr. hi- ho.
speaker2: hi-ho.
speaker3: look, this thing, it ain't complicated. you give us all the money, you don't get shot in the head, you make more donuts, get more money. that's how it works, see?
speaker1: give us the money!
speaker1: ...you got three seconds. you understand one-two-three? i'm gonna count one-two-three and then shoot. okay? three secâ–- huh!
speaker1: his fingers are way the up my nose.

speaker1: i know you all remember that when moses came down the mountain, carrying the word a come down that sinai peak, he caught those israelites red- handed. what he catch 'em doin'? he caught 'em worshipping a golden calf. 
speaker1: ...he caught 'em with their backs turned on
speaker1: ...he caught 'em worshipping a false a of earthly things! he caught them israelites in decline!
speaker1: ...because backslidin' is decline, brothers and sisters! you hear talk these days, and i know you've heard this talk, you hear talk of decline, well all that means is we done turned our back on
speaker1: ...people say civilization doin' this, civilization doin' that, civilization in decline! well it ain't no civilization! it ain't no them! it's us, brothers and sisters! "amen!"
speaker1: ...it's what's in our hearts, each and every one of us when we like them israelites! slidin' awa-a-a-ay down that godly slope, slippin' and slidin' toward the mire and muck a the stinkhole of greed -- that's
speaker1: ...and what did moses do when he saw those declinin' backslidin' never- mindin' sinners?
speaker1: ...moses smote those sinners in his wrath yes he did!
speaker1: ...y'all know what smote is! i smite! you smite! he smites! we done smote!
speaker1: ...to smite is to go upside the head!
speaker1: ...because sometimes, brothers and sisters, that is the only way!
speaker1: ...to smite is to remind! we got to stop that decline! and scramble back up to the face a the almighty gyod!
speaker1: ...'stead a worshippin' that golden calf, that earthly trash on that garbage island! that garbage island in that shadowland way outside the kingdom a
speaker1: ...that garbage island where scavenger birds feast on the bones a the backslidin' damned!
speaker1: ...and so, let us pray...

speaker1: you preach a wonderful sermon, brother cleothus. 
speaker2: why thank you, sister rose.
speaker3: that man has a lot to say.
speaker1: yes he does.
speaker3: and every word of it the truth.
speaker4: mm-mm. well pleased with him.
speaker5: deed he is.
speaker2: oh now ladies...
speaker5: pleased as he can be.
speaker1: mm-mm.
speaker3: stout, too.
speaker1: mm-mm.
speaker2: oh now you gracious ladies.

speaker1: and the choir was all in good voice. mm-mm- there is a knock at the door. 
speaker1: ...who could that-- the cat yowls and hisses.
speaker2: my dear mrs. munson, i do so hope this is not an inopportune time for our first practice--
speaker1: somebody die?
speaker2: i beg your-- oh!
speaker2: ...no no, no bereavement, though it is so kind of you to enquire. no, the hearse is simply a vehicle commodious enough to accommodate all of the members of our ensemble. and of course our instruments, contrived in an age ignorant of miniaturization... he turns and gestures at the vehicle.
speaker2: ...let me introduce you to my friends, my colleagues, these devoted and passionate musicians... this is gawain macsam, our bassoonist...
speaker2: ...general nguyen pham doc, viola da gamba...
speaker1: no smoking in this house.
speaker3: so sorry.
speaker2: ...clark pancake -- a multi- instrumentalist, but with his remarkable embosser clark specializes in wind instruments, and is especially accomplished on the french horn...
speaker2: ...and, finally, aloysius "lump" hudson. lump is our sackbuttist and -- thank you, lump -- i see you've also brought my fiddle...
speaker4: here's your fiddle, doctor.
speaker1: you ain't gonna make a racket, are ya?
speaker2: oh no. oh no no no no no. no, we shall recuse ourselves to the basement where we shall be -- i think here the expression is uniquely appropriate...
speaker2: ...as quiet as the crypt.
speaker1: hmph.

speaker1: what do you think, general? present any problems? 
speaker1: ...good then.
speaker1: ...all right, gentlemen, why don't we all crowd around and go over the plan.
speaker1: ...this, gentlemen, is the lady luck, gambling den, cash cow, sodom of the mississippi delta -- and the focus of our little exercise. here is orchard street...
speaker1: ...and here is the residence of marva munson, the charming lady whom y'all met moments ago. gentlemen...
speaker1: ...you... are... here. now. this brings us to this square... the bow indicates it, and then withdraws.
speaker1: ...gentlemen, i believe you are all aware that the solons of the state of mississippi, to wit, its legislature, have decreed that no gaming establishment shall be erected within its borders upon dry land. they may, however, legally float upon any watercourse defining a state boundary. but while the gambling activity itself is restricted to riverboats, no such restriction applies to the functions ancillary to this cash besotted bidnis. the casino's offices, locker rooms, facilities to cook and clean, and most importantly its counting houses- the reinforced, secret, and super secure repositories of the lucre -- may all be situated... wherever. gawain -- where is wherever?
speaker2: say wha?
speaker1: where is the money?
speaker2: oh. end of every shift pit boss brings the cash down to the hold of the ship in the locked cash box; once a day all the cash boxes're moved to the counting room.
speaker1: and where is the counting room?
speaker2: well, uh... in that square there. where you pointing.
speaker1: and what, to flog a horse that if not at this point dead is in mortal danger of expirin', does the dotted square represent?
speaker2: ...offices. underground.
speaker1: underground... mmm... during the casino's hours of operation the door to the counting room is fiercely guarded, and the door itself is of redoubtable pittsburgh steel; when the casino is closed the entire underground complex is locked up and the armed guard retreats to the casino's main entrance. there, then, far from the guard, reposes the money, cosseted behind a five-inch-thick steel portal, yes, but the walls, gentlemen, the walls of that room, are but humble masonry, behind which is only the soft loamy soil deposited over the centuries by ol' man, the meanderin' mississip', as it fanned its way back and forth across this great alluvial plain...
speaker1: ...this earth.
speaker1: ...any questions?
speaker1: ...yes, lump?
speaker3: what, uh... what does "cosseted" mean?
speaker1: the general here, whose curriculum vitae compahends massive tunneling experience thoo the soil of his native french-indochina, will direct our little ol' tunnelin' operation.
speaker1: ...clark pancake, while a master of none, is a jack of all those trades corollary to our aim. he will be doin' such fabricatin' and demolition work as our little caper shall require.
speaker4: happy to be on board.
speaker1: gawain is the proverbial "inside man". he has managed to secure a berth on the custodial staff of the lady luck, thereby placin' himself in a position to perform certain chores whose precise nature needn't detain us here, but whose performance shall guide this expedition to its happy conclusion.
speaker2: ya skippy.
speaker1: and this brings us to lump. to look at lump you might wonder, what function could he possibly fill, what specialized expertise could he possibly offer, to our merry little ol' band a miscreants. well gentlemen, in a project of such magnitude and such risks, it is traditional -- nay, it is imperative -- to enlist the services of a hooligan, a goon, an ape, a physical brute, who will be our security, our fist, our batterin' ram. lump is our blunt instrument, and on all our behalfs i wish him a warm mississippi welcome.
speaker3: thanks, professor.
speaker1: well gentlemen, here you are, men of different backgrounds and differing talents, men with, in fact only two things in common: one, you all saw fit to answer my little advertisement in the memphis scimitar, and, two, you are all going to be, in consequence, very very incredibly rich. let us revel in our adventure, gentlemen. let us make beautiful music together. and above all, gentlemen, let us keep it to ourselves. what we say in this root cellar, let it stay in this root cellar.
speaker3: there's no "i" in "team".
speaker1: ...lump has a very excellent point.

speaker1: that's okay, don't stop on account of me. 
speaker2: no no, madam, we were about to take a break anyway. the glissandi on this particular piece are technically very demanding and i think we would all welcome a moment of relaxation.
speaker1: huh. i just thought you might like to see-what a you gotten up to, honey? why you sweatin' like that.
speaker3: i, uh...
speaker4: that man plays one barrelful a sackbutt. ain't no one can blow the tenor sackbutt like lump, hoowee! goes at that thing like it was a pu-- uh, like it was a woman! goddamn! he-- she cuffs him on the head.
speaker1: you mind! i don't want that kind of talk in my home, even in the root cellar. this is a christian house, boy, none of that hippity-hop language.
speaker2: sadly, gawain is given to-- whap! she slaps gawain again.
speaker1: sometimes it's the only way!
speaker1: ...i'm tryin' to help you, son!

speaker1: ...better yaself! 
speaker2: as well you should, ma'am. but gawain at times is so far transported by his love of the music of the early renaissance as to--
speaker1: don't make no never-mind he's transported!
speaker2: i understand your-- she pulls her elbow away and sniffs.
speaker1: you been smokin'?
speaker2: certainly not, madam. i understand your indignation. and i was offering explanation, not excuse. i myself am offended by those who cannot find the proper words to express themselves and have recourse to-- gawain calls up the stairs:
speaker3: don't you be explainin' me, dawg! you can't look into my mind, cape man!
speaker2: yes, yes...
speaker2: ...a fiery lad! but then youth is fiery! a fact often remarked upon by the poets of the romantic era.
speaker1: my youth i was in church, i wasn't walkin' around fiery. youth ain't no excuse for nothin'! well, anyway... only came down to show you the fife.
speaker1: ...othar's fife. he burned his own.
speaker2: ...did he?
speaker1: mm-hm. i thought maybe bein' a musical man you'd be interested.
speaker2: oh, i am indeed--
speaker1: cut it himself and burned the holes. israelites called it a kalil.
speaker2: ah.
speaker1: kalil, fife, same thing. you can read about it in the bible. ain't nothin' new under the sun.
speaker2: indeed not.
speaker1: gone these twenty years. he was some kind of man.
speaker1: ...blowed the kalil.
speaker2: ...i don't suppose othar ever turned his hand -- or, uh, heh-heh-heh, turned his lip -- to the shofar?
speaker2: ...the ceremonial ram's horn, sounded by the priests of the hebrews?
speaker1: i don't know nothin' 'bout that. othar didn't study no shofar, to the extent a my knowledge. the kalil was good enough for my othar...
speaker1: ...some kind of man.

speaker1: following a woman in a red dress. 
speaker2: hey baby, don't be cruel. jus' sneak one little peek...
speaker2: ...don't let this uniform fool ya--

speaker1: but mr. gudge, she had an that could pull a bus. this lady was fine, fine, dandy, divine. 
speaker2: i don't care how big her was, macsam. you're fired.
speaker1: say what?
speaker2: there is no fraternizing with customers on the lady luck. clean out your locker.
speaker1: but gudgeâ–-
speaker2: get out of here. you're fired.
speaker1: you can't fire me. i sue your ass!
speaker2: sue me? for what?
speaker1: sue you for punitive damages, man!
speaker2: punitive damages.
speaker1: ya skippy. i know you firin' my 'cause i'm black!
speaker2: everyone on the custodial staff is black, macsam. your replacement's gonna be black. his replacement will no doubt be black.
speaker1: judge is gonna be black, that's who gonna be black! you gonna stand tall before the man!

speaker1: oh my. oh my my my my my. this is a severe setback. i am distraught. i am more than distraught, i am devastated. oh my, this is quite the monkey-wrench heaved into the meticulously engineered construct of our little escapade. 
speaker2: yeah, it things up.
speaker1: i am beside myself. i am at a positive loss for words.
speaker3: you still talkin' okay though.
speaker4: have you all decided?
speaker1: oh madam, we must have waffles. we must all have waffles forthwith!
speaker1: ...oh we must think. we must all have waffles and think, each and every one of us to the very best of his ability! perhaps if you apologized to the man and gave him flowers, or perhaps a fruit basket, with a card depicting a misty seascape and inscribed with a sentiment.
speaker3: man, it ain't about apologizin'! he fired me 'cause i'm black!
speaker5: he can't do that. you could sue him. open and shut case.
speaker3: a.
speaker5: this is not 1952.
speaker3: man's a bigot.
speaker1: well then, perhaps, surely, a chocolate assortment has been known to warm the heart of even the most hardened misanthrope, especially if it's a premium chocolate, imported, say, from switzerland, or the netherlands, or some other of the so- called "low" countries be they dutch or flemish or walloon--
speaker3: walloon my ass, the man ain't gonna roll over for a candy bar!
speaker5: i'm afraid there's a setback on the tunneling front too. we've run into a pretty large rock, and--
speaker6: -- rock!
speaker6: ...very bad.
speaker1: oh my my, it seems that the poet was right: troubles never singly come.
speaker5: oh, we can get through the rock, no worries there. simplest thing in the world. why we blow right through it; i've got a pyro license, we bore a hole in the rock, pack in a little plastique; igneous blows pretty good, and we--
speaker2: is he gonna want a piece of the action?
speaker5: ...who?
speaker2: ...igneous?
speaker7: hello clark. am i ordering the prima cord?
speaker5: yes, mountain, we were just talking about that, and some plastique.
speaker3: ...the is this?
speaker5: this is mountain girl. mountain is my right hand. she helps me with ordnance. helps me with near everything.
speaker3: ...you brought your to the waffle house?!
speaker1: i confess myself to be puzzled as well. i thought we all understood that, so far as our little enterprise is concerned, mum, as the saying would have it, is the word--
speaker5: of course. i understand that. but this is mountain...
speaker5: ...i don't keep secrets from mountain. that's not how you maintain a loving, caring relationship.
speaker3: ...you brought your to the waffle house?
speaker3: ...man brings his to the waffle house!
speaker5: look, you, i'll thank you to stop referring to mountain that way. she's the other half of my life.
speaker3: everybody lookin' at me like i'm a fuck-up, losin' that sorry-ass job, and this bring his to the waffle house!
speaker5: you son of a punk! shut your mouth!
speaker3: come and get me motherfuck! come on, baby, let's get it on! mountain starts screaming.
speaker1: gentlemen, please!
speaker1: ...gentlemen, this sort of behavior does you no credit in the eyes of your colleagues, or in those of the other patrons of this waffle house!
speaker5: ...nobody talks to mountain girl that way. she had an abusive family!
speaker3: you, man.
speaker5: little punk. i got syrup on my safari jacket.
speaker1: gentlemen, i propose that we consider the matter of this woman, mountain water, to be--
speaker5: mountain girl.
speaker1: i am so very sorry. i propose that we consider this matter to be closed, and we shall chose to trust her, since we now have no choice, and since she shall share only in mr. pancake's portion of the booty.
speaker5: of course. wouldn't have it any other way.
speaker3: right you won't.
speaker5: up yours, punk.
speaker1: gentlemen! and the manner of disposing of our igneous impediment is also settled. that leaves only the question of gawain retrieving his job.
speaker2: couldn't you just bribe the guy?

speaker1: ...you just a readin' fool, ain't you mr. dorr. 
speaker2: yes yes, i must confess, madam, that often i feel more at home in these ancient volumes than i do in the hustle-bustle of our modern world. to me, paradoxically, the literature of the so-called "dead tongues" has more currency than this mornin's newspaper.
speaker1: mm-mm.
speaker2: in these books...
speaker2: ...in these volumes, there is the accum'lated wisdom a mankind which succours me when the day is hard or the night lonely and long.
speaker1: wisdom of mankind, what about the wisdom of the lord?
speaker2: oh yes, the good book, mm. i have found reward in its pages. but for me there are other good books as well; the heavy volumes of antiquity, freighted with the insights of man's glorious age. and then of course i love, love, love the works of mr. ed g'allan poe.
speaker1: i know who he is. kinda creepy.
speaker2: oh no, madam, noooo. not of this world, true; he lived in a dream, an ancient dream...
speaker2: "helen, they beauty is to me like those nicean barks a yore that gently, o'er a perfumed sea, the weary, wayworn wanderer bore to his own native shore... "
speaker1: who was helen? she wasn't a loose woman, was she? some kinda a babylon?
speaker2: one doesn't know who helen was, though i picture her as bein' very, very extremely... pale.
speaker2: ...miz munson, i was tryin' to think of some way of expressin' my gratitude to you for takin' in...
speaker2: ...this weary, wayworn wanderer...
speaker2: ...it's just a modest little ol' present, why it's practically nothing at all.
speaker1: oh mr. dorr, why you are such a gallant man...
speaker2: oh no madam, i blush. i melt. no, i just happened to hear of this gospel concert tomorrow night, the mighty mighty clouds of joy, and i thought you and a friend from church, perhaps...
speaker1: othar loved that music... yes, i got a widow-lady friend...
speaker2: the concert is up in memphis, but i have arranged for a car service to transport you thither and, needless to say, back home at the concert's termination. my friends and i will be rehearsing here tomorrow evening so you needn't worry about the security of your charming little old house...
speaker1: huh? excuse me.

speaker1: ...to let you know i had a word with weemack. he says he gonna comply with your request, keep the music down and neighborly. 
speaker2: mm-hm.
speaker1: so you have a pleasant evening now, and just let us know--
speaker2: hang on there, sheriff, somebody i want you to meet.
speaker1: ma'am, i'm a little pressed for time--
speaker2: why, you chasin' a gang of bank robbers? get on in here say hello.
speaker2: ...we was just havin' tea, talkin' about othar--
speaker2: ...hm... bussed his own dishes. you can always tell a gentleman.
speaker1: someone was here, ma'am?
speaker2: mm-hm, with me'n othar.
speaker1: well, maybe i'll catch him next time...
speaker2: come on up to his room.
speaker2: mm, he's neat.
speaker1: very neat.
speaker2: probably went down to the cellar to play with his friends.
speaker1: ma'am, i really have to...

speaker1: what the... 
speaker2: fearfully watching.

speaker1: ...what the... why, professor! 
speaker1: ...what you doin' havin' tea down there?!
speaker1: ...land of goshen! get out from under there!
speaker2: miz munson, my pager just went off...
speaker1: why of all the...
speaker2: 'fraid i gotta respond...
speaker2: ...i'll try to meet your friend some other time.
speaker3: well that was very... refreshing... as you know...
speaker3: ...we academics are inordinately fond of wedgin' ourselves into confined spaces. at yale the students will see how many of their number they can enclose in a telephone booth; harvard, a broom closet.
speaker1: why i never!
speaker3: there was the goldfish-swallowin' craze, of course, a different but related phenomenon... ahem... i hope i didn't spill any tea...

speaker1: the box is being pulled open. 
speaker2: what the is this?

speaker1: it's just my way of sayin', well, goddamnit, i don't know what it's like walkin' in your shoes, bein' all tightass and all, and you don't know what it's like to walk in my shoes, but, well... 
speaker1: ...you know, there's the custodian, and then there's the man inside the custodian, y'understand what i'm sayin'...
speaker1: ...and that man has needs, dig, and i guess those needs, mr. gudge, which they usually involve women with big asses, well those needs sometimes well up over the custodian like the johnstown flood. but my point is it ain't gonna happen again. not if it's humanly possible...
speaker2: hmm...
speaker1: but if you'd seen the on that girl, mr. gudge, you'd a wanted her sitting on your face too.
speaker2: well, we're all human.
speaker1: ya skippy.
speaker2: this apology buys you a one-week probationary period. stay away from the customers, macsam.

speaker1: the drill bit's getting awfully hot. gawain, maybe you could fill a hudson sprayer and spritz it down while i drill. 
speaker2: you, man, i ain't your house nigger. i'm the inside man!
speaker1: look, are you gonna have a bug up your for the rest of the time we work together?
speaker3: i'll get the sprayer.
speaker1: no no, me and this gentleman here have to get square. let me tell you something, macsam. you wanna know something?
speaker2: i don't wanna know from you.
speaker1: i'm gonna tell you how i came down to mississippi. wasn't born here, you know. i'm from scranton, pennsylvania...
speaker1: ...nnnff!
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: ...scranton, pennsylvania. came down here in 1964. greyhound bus. with the freedom riders. you know who the freedom riders were, macsam?
speaker2: i don't give a who they were. just tell me when they gonna leave.
speaker1: the freedom riders, my fine young man, were a group of concerned liberals from up north -- whites, negros, and yes, jewish people -- all working together, just like we are here. concerned citizens who came down here so that local black people could have their civil liberties. so that people like you could have the vote.
speaker2: ...you know what, man?
speaker1: what, brother?
speaker2: i don't vote. so you.
speaker1: why you fucking--
speaker2: and the bus you rode in on!
speaker1: that's it!
speaker1: ...let's step outside, macsam!
speaker4: yes, madam?
speaker5: my friend mrs. funthes is here so i'm about to go on out. i just wanted to leave y'all with some cinnamon cookies...
speaker5: ...y'all sound pretty good. it'd be nice if you'd come by the church some day, give us a recital.
speaker4: oh madam, you are too kind. our music, however, is -- how shall i put it? -- rather roman in its outlook; many of our pieces were commissioned by the holy see.
speaker5: oh, i see all right, but we don't make a big whoop-dee-do about denominations; everybody welcome at our church. we've had methodists come in. episcopals. even had a jew come in once with a guitar back in the sixties.
speaker4: indeed. excuse me, one moment, ma'am, and i shall see you off...
speaker4: ...if you gentlemen can labor harmoniously in the course of my absence, then perhaps upon my return we shall be prepared to explode that vexin' ol' piece a igneous.
speaker2: he's the piece of igneous.

speaker1: professor, this is rosalie funthes, rosalie, professor g.h. dorr, ph.d. 
speaker2: oh my, that's an awful lot of letters.
speaker3: well of course in my youth i was simply known as goldthwait...

speaker1: all right, safety meeting, let's listen up. general, could you hand me the prima cord and the compound there. before we set the charge we'll run through our procedure. various paraphernalia are laid out on the table. 
speaker1: ...i have earplugs for whoever wants them. just wedge them in your ears. now here we have -- not yet, lump.
speaker1: ...now. prima cord. gelatinite. c4. time comes, we pack the hole in the rock with the c4 and insert two leads.
speaker2: he holds up one lead.
speaker1: ...and b.
speaker1: ...charge comes from a battery that is inside this plunger. ordinary auto battery, you can pick it up at sears, easiest thing in the world...

speaker1: i remember my father telling me -- and it is one of the few memories i retain of the man, from one of his visits home, and how i do cherish it -- he said, "goldthwait, you are not formed as other little boys." 
speaker2: mm-mm.
speaker3: he a man of learnin'?
speaker1: g.h. number two was self-educated; he had no career, as such, though the state recognized the breadth of his readin' by making him librarian at the state nervous hospital in meridian, where he was a distinguished inmate.

speaker1: this is the same procedure we will be using when we collapse the tunnel after entering the casino vault and returning to the root cellar. 
speaker1: ...this is for your own protection, so pay close attention. once these materials are combined only the professionals may handle them. that means me, or the general. separately they are harmless-completely inert. why, you could light this stuff on fire, hit it with a hammer--

speaker1: ...what in the name of heaven was that? 
speaker2: i'm... quite sure... that there is... no cause for alarm...
speaker2: ...why, i'm not even absolutely certain that i heard anything at all.
speaker1: didn't hear anything?!
speaker2: well, something, perhaps, but...
speaker2: ...nothing that need discompose us, was the sense i was trying to convey...
speaker2: ...miz munson, i will not have you missing your musical recital. why, you go ahead now. miz funthes, you as well, i beg of you...
speaker2: ...i shall call the gas company, or the water company, or whatever subterranean utility is implicated in this little... occurrence... i shall see to the matter... as only a highly educated classicist could.
speaker3: blood, professor! oh my blood!
speaker4: ...why, it's nothing to make a fuss about. perfectly all right... happens all the time...
speaker5: ...you gotta go find it, dipshit!
speaker4: ...no, no. really, i'm perfectly all right.
speaker5: perfectly all right? you just blew your finger off!
speaker4: sure, but--
speaker5: well get back down there and find it, man! i ain't pickin' up your finger!
speaker2: i gather there was a premature detonation--
speaker5: they can sew that back on, jack! like that guy his wife cut his off! just sewed that back on!
speaker4: of course. simplest thing in the world. microsurgery--
speaker5: saw that in a porno! thing still works!
speaker4: oh yes, they have remarkable abilities in the, uh...
speaker1: they using the house to practice music a the rococo.
speaker6: mmmm-hm.

speaker1: get him! 
speaker2: i propose that we get our fallen comrade to the hospital, and the general shall follow when he manages to recover the severed digit.
speaker3: i don't know what all the fuss is about. the cat jumps.

speaker1: ...you catch pickles now! 
speaker2: the house is perfectly in order, but we need medical attention for mr. pancake who, during the disturbance, pinched his finger in a valve of the sackbutt.
speaker1: you let the cat out!
speaker2: the general is even now exercising every effort to retrieve your mischievous little pet. please go, go and enjoy your concert, and we shall see you later in the evening. au revoir, mes dames!

speaker1: despite our little setback we find ourselves on schedule to penetrate the vault... 
speaker1: ...here, this afternoon, having successfully blasted that little ol' rock to pieces during miz munson's choir practice.
speaker1: ...clark, perhaps you can run us through the game plan for what remains of our tunnelin'.
speaker2: of course. why, it's child's play now, easiest thing in the world. only a couple of feet separate us from the vault...

speaker1: ...just the usual spadework until we hit the masonry of the vault, and then we drill through. 
speaker2: and will you be able to wield the drill with your maimed extremity?
speaker1: oh, i should think so, it's only one finger. inhibits me in doing finer work, of course. i'll always have to live with that... ahem. maybe, and i'm just thinking out loud here, maybe since, as you say, it will present problems later...
speaker2: yes, clark?
speaker1: well, maybe -- and this is something i've talked over with mountain girl, and she agrees with me, so it's not just one person's opinion -- maybe i should get a little extra compensation for the accident.
speaker1: ...somewhat larger share. why, if this were any other line of work i'd be getting workmen's comp, wouldn't i? might even have a pretty good lawsuit.
speaker3: you gonna sue yaself for blowin' off your finger?
speaker1: well that is simply asinine--
speaker2: yes but you see, clark, this is not what you just called "some other line of work."
speaker1: but if it were--
speaker2: this is a criminal enterprise, not to put too fine a point on it, entailin' all manner a risks not involved in honest labor. governmental regulations an' civic safeguards cannot be assumed to apply to antisocial pursuits.
speaker4: yeah, but he lost his finger.
speaker3: we don't give a man can blow his own off, don't make no nevermind to us! we don't gotta pay the man for goin' around blowin' off body parts! getcha head outcha ass, man!
speaker1: look, you--
speaker2: i think that in this instance gawain has a very excellent point. i--
speaker5: no extra share! all stop and stare at the general.
speaker1: well, okay, majority rules, like i say, it was just a trial balloon. hand's not so bad really, i even get some phantom feeling.
speaker3: you pull on your you get phantom feeling. greedy motherfuck.
speaker2: now that that matter is settled, let us synchronize our watches before gawain reports to work. in... twenty seconds... it will be twelve-sixteen exactly... fifteen...
speaker1: it will be twelve-fifteen?
speaker2: no, in fifteen seconds -- now eleven seconds -- it will be twelve- sixteen... eight...
speaker4: professor?
speaker2: six... five -- yes, lump?
speaker4: i don't have a watch.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: me,

speaker1: well ain't that somethin'. 
speaker2: hnnnn. arrunggggh! rnffff.
speaker2: ...mmmmnggh!

speaker1: ...say what? 
speaker2: ibs! irritable bowel syndrome! is there a men's room down here?!
speaker1: oh man, you shouldn't be using the men's room--
speaker2: or a lady's room! ibs! quickly!
speaker1: you shoulda back in the house, man! we don't want elron finding you in the crapper!
speaker2: no choice! quickly! it's a medical condition!
speaker1: you are disgusting, man. all right, follow me.

speaker1: feel thirty pounds lighter. 
speaker1: ...thank you for being so understanding. not everyone is, of course, which is why the biggest challenge of ibs is educating the public. afflicts over two million people yet most of us have never heard of it. and it strikes without regard to age, gender or race.
speaker2: oh man, i don't wanna know about it.
speaker1: that's the kind of attitude we're fighting.
speaker2: well maybe you should sign me up, man, 'cause you startin' to irritate my bowel.

speaker1: ...i guess i never told you, that's how mountain girl and i met. they had an ibs weekend at grossinger's, in the catskills. of course the tourist business up there has suffered, with the demise of the borscht belt. so they have different promotions, mixers, so on. this was a weekend for irritable bowel singles to meet and support each other and share stories. 
speaker2: man, i don't wanna hear a single one a them stories.
speaker1: well, some of them are very--
speaker2: not one story! you one fucked- up you-- they stop short, looking:
speaker3: hey, lookit that.

speaker1: huh. looks like an ikegami. 
speaker2: clark looming into extreme close shot.
speaker1: ...oh yeah. mm-hm. i'm not sure whether it's broadcasting...

speaker1: ...um-hm... no... 
speaker1: ...hard wire...

speaker1: look, i didn't choose to have ibs-- 
speaker2: shut the up!
speaker1: there's no cure, you know. only control. lifelong condition. not complaining, just fact. and i did meet mountain.
speaker2: grab your bag and get in that hole!

speaker1: welcome back, gentlemen, mission accomplished i see. i am so very very delighted... 
speaker1: ...congratulations. congratulations. i have some cold duck on ice for the occasion.
speaker2: maybe we could have something to drink, too.

speaker1: gentlemen, to we few. we who have shared each other's company, each other's care, each other's joy, and who now reap the fruits of our communal effits, shoulder to shoulder, from each accordin' to his abilities so forth whatnot. we have had our little diffences along the way, it's true, but i like to think they have only made us value one another the more, each coming to understand and appreciate the other's unique qualities, potencies, and, yes, foibles. i suggest that we shall look back upon this caper one day, one distant day, grandchildren dandled upon our knee, and perhaps a tear will form, and we shall say, well, with wit, and grit, and no small amount of courage, we accomplished something on that day, a feat of derring-do, an enterprise not ignoble -- we, merry band, unbound by the constraints of society and the prejudices of the common ruck, we happy few. gentlemen -- to us! 
speaker2: to us!

speaker1: charge should've gone off already. 
speaker2: i do beg your pardon?
speaker1: the charge to collapse the tunnel. i set it for eight minutes.
speaker2: well that time, and more, has most certainly elapsed.

speaker1: i need not remind you of the importance of obliterating any trace of a connection between the vault and this house. it was of the essence of this plan that it should appear that the money had simply vanished. without a trace. spirited away, as it were, by ghosts. 
speaker2: of course. i understand.
speaker1: the conundrum of the undisturbed yet empty vault, the unsolvable riddle of the sealed yet violated sanctum, is of the utmost importance not only to make our caper innelectually satisfying. it is also exigent as a matter of practical fact: i remind you that if a tunnel is ever found leading to this house, this house's owner knows all of your names.
speaker2: she certainly does.
speaker1: therefore -- to draw the unavoidable conclusion -- someone shall have to reenter the tunnel to reset that charge.

speaker1: ...you just fart? 
speaker2: heh-heh-heh.

speaker1: perfectly all right. not a problem. 
speaker2: well there sure as ain't no tunnel left.
speaker3: professor, i'm surprised.
speaker4: ...properly speaking, madam, we have been surprised; you are taken aback. though i acknowledge that the sense you intend is gaining currency through increasing use.
speaker4: ...you have returned from your devotions betimes.
speaker3: i hadda fix tea. i wanna talk to you, professor, don't you be leavin'. and don't make any more noise! and you!
speaker3: ...i told you, i don't want any smokin' in here!

speaker1: she saw everything. she saw our hole... 
speaker1: ...she saw our hole, professor!
speaker2: yes... yes...
speaker1: what do we do?
speaker2: well, first, my dear boy, we follow the general's example...
speaker2: ...and refrain from panic. secondly, we cooly, calmly, collectedly think... think...

speaker1: hsst... madam... 
speaker1: ...mrs. munson, if i might have a word...
speaker2: you get back down those stairs!
speaker1: i assure you i shall be--
speaker2: hush! down those stairs! we havin' tea now! i be down shortly.
speaker2: ...he's the tenant.
speaker3: mm-hm.

speaker1: she shall be down shortly... 
speaker1: ...tea. dainties. the men nod, murmuring.
speaker2: i don't know what you boys been up to but i wasn't born yesterday and i know mischief when i see it. now i want an explanation, but first i want you boys to get your fannies up here with y'alls period instruments. i been tellin' the ladies about your music and they wanna hear you play.
speaker2: ...hmph.
speaker3: professor?
speaker1: yes, lump?
speaker3: i can't really play the buttsack.

speaker1: madame -- or rather, mesdames -- you will have to accept our apologies for failing to perform since, as you see, we are shorthanded. gawain is still at work and we could no more play with one part tacit than a horse could canter shy one leg. 
speaker2: mm-hmm.
speaker3: hmph.
speaker1: perhaps i could offer as a poor but ready substitute a brief poetic recital. though i don't pretend to great oratorical skills, i will happily present, with your ladies' permission, verse from the unquiet mind of mr. ed g'allan poe.
speaker1: ..."ladies, thy beauty is to me like those nicean barks of yore..."
speaker1: "that gently, o'er a perfumed sea the weary, wayworn wanderer bore to his own native shore... " murmuring voice:
speaker4: amen. a slurp of tea from another quarter.
speaker1: "on desperate seas long wont to roam, thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, thy naiad airs have brought me home to the glory that was greece and the grandeur that was rome... " a long silence.

speaker1: that was soooome poem. 
speaker1: ...you know any?
speaker2: y'all been celebratin'?.

speaker1: goodbye, ladies. we had such a pleasant time. 
speaker2: now, i wanna know what's goin' on.
speaker1: yes indeed, and the thirst for knowledge is a very commendable thing. though in this instance, i believe when you hear the explanation, you will laugh riotously, slappin' your knee and perhaps even wipin' away a giddy tear, relieved of your former concern.
speaker2: hmph.
speaker1: you see lump here is an enthusiastic collector of indian arrowheads and, having found one simply lying on your cellar floor, a particularly rare artifact of the natchez tribe, he enlisted us in an all-out effort to sift through the subsoil in search of others. well, in doing so, we apparently hit a motherlode of natural gas -- i myself became acutely aware of the smell of "rotten eggs" -- and it was at just this unfortunate moment that the general here violated one of the cardinal rules of this house and lit himself a cigarette.
speaker3: so sorry.
speaker2: ...what about all that money?
speaker1: ...ah. the money. the money is... mr. pancake's.
speaker4: that's right.
speaker1: he only just re-mortgaged his house in order to pay for the procedure that will correct the wandering eye of his common-law wife, mountain water, who suffers from astygmia and strabismus and a general curdling of the vitreous jelly. mr. pancake however is an ardent foe of the federal reserve and is in fact one of those eccentrics about whom one occasionally reads, hoarding his entire life savings either under the proverbial mattress or, as in mr. pancake's case, in a hefty bag that is his constant companion.
speaker1: ...steel sack.
speaker4: don't trust the banks. never have.
speaker2: this don't smell right. i'm callin' sheriff wyner.
speaker1: madam -- if you please. yes! yes! it was a lie! a fantastic tale! you have us! dead to rights! but please allow me to tell you the truth -- in private.

speaker1: madam... 
speaker1: ...what i am about to reveal to you, you may find... shocking. mrs. munson, i must tell you that we are not... what we appear.
speaker2: mm-hm.
speaker1: we are not in fact musicians of the late renaissance. nor of the early or mid period. we are, in fact... criminals! desperate men, madam! we have tunneled into the nearby offices of the lady luck gambling emporium and have relieved it of its treasure!
speaker2: lord have mercy!
speaker1: it is true that the lady luck is a den of iniquity, a painted harlot luring people into sin and exciting the vice of greed with her false promise of easy winnings. oh, her gains are ill-gotten, yes, but i offer no excuses -- save one! we men have each pledged half of our share of the booty to a charitable institution -- the general, to a placement service for southeast asian refugees; mr. pancake to the blue ridge parkway conservancy; and lump to the united jewish appeal. as compensation for use of your house we had planned to donate a full share to bob jones university, without burdening you with guilty knowledge by informing you of same. but you have wrested the information from me! now it is all on the table. now you have it, the whole story, the awful truth.
speaker2: stolen money!
speaker1: yes, yes, shamefully i admit it, yes! but find the victim, mrs. munson, i challenge you! even the casino itself, that riparian gomorra, shall suffer no harm! it has an insurance company, a financial behemoth that will cheerfully replenish its depleted vaults! that is its function! and the insurance company itself is made up of tens and tens of thousands of policy-holders so that -- we have done the calculations, mrs. munson! -- so that at the end of the day, at the final reckoning, each policy- holder shall have contributed only one penny -- one single solitary cent -- to the satisfaction of this claim.
speaker2: ...just one penny?
speaker1: think of it, mrs. munson! one cent from thousands upon thousands of people so that bob jones university can continue on its mission! why, i have no doubt that, were the policy- holders aware of the existence of that august institution, why, each and every one of them would have volunteered some token amount to the furtherance of its aims!
speaker2: well that's prob'ly true...
speaker1: yes madam, sadly, the criminal stain is upon my soul, but the benefit shall accrue to any number of worthy causes. as long, that is, as the secret stays with us. and i, surely, shall not be the one to divulge it.
speaker2: well... it's hard to see the harm in it... one penny...
speaker2: ...i'm sorry, professor.
speaker1: excuse me, ma'am?
speaker2: no. it's wrong. don't you be leadin' me into temptation.
speaker1: madam, i must strenuously protest--
speaker2: no, it's just plain wrong. stealin'. i know your intentions were good, and i won't call the police if you give the money back. but i gotta see that you do it.
speaker1: madam--
speaker2: and all a you gotta go to church with me next sunday.
speaker1: and... engage in divine worship?
speaker2: i made up my mind. you can double- talk all you want, but its church or the county jail.
speaker1: but-- she rises.
speaker2: you think it over. i gotta feed the cat.

speaker1: motherfuck! 
speaker2: yes. unfortunately, mrs. munson has rather complicated the situation--
speaker1: i know how to discomplicate it! put a cap in the old lady's head! then everything simple again!
speaker2: ...not easy to do. many reasons. practical ones: a quiet neighborhood, a sleepy town. reasons of moral repugnance: a harmless woman, a deed conceived and executed in cold blood. no, gawain; would that it were simple!
speaker1: well -- man! what we gonna do, give the money back and go to church?!
speaker2: i shudder. i quake.
speaker2: ...you sir, are a buddhist. is there not a middle way?
speaker3: must float like a leaf on the river of life. and kill old lady.
speaker2: well... i suppose you are right. it is the active nature of the crime, though, that so horrifies -- the squeezing of the trigger, the plunging of the knife. but, think a moment -- look at the other tools we have at hand.
speaker2: ...we have the cellar. we have masonry and trowel. perhaps we could simply... immure her.
speaker4: sure, easiest thing in the world. i could whip up a little mortar in one of those snow saucers, lay the bricks, anchor in some chains, mountain has a source for the manacles...
speaker2: ahh but gentlemen, we delude ourselves. think of the woman's piteous moans as we lay tier upon tier of brick. think of her lamentations as we fit the last brick into place, appealing to our better selves, the higher angels of our nature, our recollections of our own sainted mothers... no, i fear that we lack the sand to commit such an act. no... no... shortest and most painless is best. let us confront reality. gawain's gun... the retort muffled by a pillow... into the brain... the affair of an instant. the only question is... who wields the weapon.
speaker2: ...i believe it is traditional, in such circumstances, to draw straws.
speaker4: well, sure, fair enough.
speaker4: ...i'm thinking, though, that since i lost my finger -- i mean, literally lost it because of that cat -- maybe i should be excused from this thing. hard for me to squeeze a trigger anyway--
speaker1: you one whiney i squeeze your you keep that up!
speaker4: listen, punk--
speaker2: gentlemen, no special pleading, no exceptions. it's in the nature of the situation that we would all prefer to be excused.
speaker4: well, okay... it was just a trial balloon...
speaker4: long straw. you all see it. all your fuss over nothing, punk.
speaker1: ...motherfucker...

speaker1: what you got there, gawain? 
speaker2: why -- nothin', mama.
speaker1: nothin' my ass! you got a dog there!
speaker2: no, mama!
speaker1: a filthy noisy little pest of a puppy dog gonna all over the house!
speaker2: he won't in the house, mama, i'm gonna train him, i promise, gonna train him real good-- whap! she cuffs him on the side of his head.
speaker1: i'm gonna train you real good! i told you don't bring no stray dogs into this house!
speaker1: ...you wait til your daddy gets home, he gonna lay into you proper!

speaker1: please don't hurt me no more! i love you, mama! 
speaker2: daddy gonna kick your ass!

speaker1: ...bringin' in a filthy dirty dog! 
speaker2: mama's whuppin' gawain's ass!
speaker3: ain't you gonna use the strap, mama?
speaker4: please don't hurt me, mama! now it is the adult gawain blubbering.
speaker5: what you doin'? what you doin' with my pillow there?
speaker6: i'm sorry, ma'am, i-- whap! she cuffs him on the side of the head.
speaker5: i'm displeased with you! colored boy like you, falling in with that trash downstairs!

speaker1: ...ashamed a yourself! didn't your mama raise you right! 
speaker2: i can't do it!
speaker3: why... this is most... irregular.
speaker2: she reminds me of my mama. i can't shoot my mama! you just draw straws again.
speaker4: wait a minute. you've got to accept your responsibilities, young man.
speaker2: you. and your irritated bowel. i can't shoot that old lady.
speaker5: must shoot!
speaker4: now look here, it's the easiest thing in the world. pretend her head is a casaba melon, and the gun is a melon- baller, and--
speaker2: what the you talkin' about, man? you think this a melon-baller, you do it, man!
speaker3: my my, this is most irregular.
speaker4: look, with equal rights come equal responsibilities--
speaker3: i'm afraid that mr. pancake is right, my dear fellow. we cannot draw straws again; the exercise loses all credibility if you show that the loser can simply beg off doing the job.
speaker5: must shoot!
speaker2: she just an old colored lady to you -- you do it, man!
speaker4: why you sniveling little coward!
speaker2: what you say, you whiney i come up your irritated with this -- gun-- he is waving the gun.
speaker4: you think you scare me, you mewling punk! you don't scare me! bull connor and all his dogs didn't scare me!
speaker4: ...be a man!
speaker2: you he shoves him back.
speaker4: be a man!
speaker2: you ain't no man, a sixty-year-old lady in pigtails!

speaker1: gentlemen, please! 
speaker2: i seen virginia hams i'd rather stick my in than your old-- bang! a muffled gunshot. quiet. the two men have stopped rolling.
speaker3: ...oh my
speaker3: ...i think he's hit!
speaker3: ...i'll just check the carotid artery.
speaker3: ...that's a negative.
speaker4: oh,
speaker1: oh my.
speaker4: is he dead, professor?
speaker3: sure he's dead. i checked his carotid artery.
speaker1: well this is most irregular. we will need a hefty bag.

speaker1: well, my dear mrs. munson, i have outlined your position to my colleagues and i now return to you to return our collective verdict. 
speaker2: mm-hmm.
speaker1: there was much spirited discussion and an atmosphere of frank give-and- take. some of our number were initially appalled at your proposal that we simply return the money; some were more receptive.
speaker2: i don't care they was receptive or not!
speaker1: and that attitude, madam, was a factor in our discussions. to a man, i must say, they were devastated at the prospect of not being able to contribute to their respective charities.
speaker2: well that is a shame.
speaker1: indeed. but at the end of the day, your position prevailed, and the men have decided that we shall return the money -- every last cent of it! -- and attend sunday services, rather than spend the remainder of our years wasting away in the mississippi men's correctional facility. though that was the original preference of some.
speaker2: well i'm glad y'all came to see the light, anyway. i'm gonna have some tea and go to bed.
speaker1: so the money shall be returned tomorrow at the opening of the casino office. enjoy your tea, madam... backing out, he looks to one side.
speaker1: ...and congratulations on having recalled to the fold five poor, confused sheep who had momentarily strayed.

speaker1: they back yet? 
speaker2: yes... yes, they just arrived.
speaker1: good. i'll go dump these in the hearse.
speaker2: what in heaven's name...
speaker2: ...general!

speaker1: no extra share, huh... the smile abruptly fades. 
speaker1: ...nnnrnf. he pants.
speaker1: ...oof!
speaker2: we are nearing the bus.
speaker3: mountain girl sits in the idling bus, waiting.
speaker1: mountain.
speaker4: clark.
speaker1: ...nnrungh! aaarmh... ninnnff... offffflleghhll...
speaker4: ibs, dear?

speaker1: to show pancake being garotted by the general. 
speaker2: nnnnnmmmmfffgh!
speaker3: "...like those nicean barks of yore that gently, o'er a perfumed sea..."
speaker4: quick! grab clark!
speaker3: "...the weary, wayworn wanderer bore... " they drop the second body.
speaker3: "...to his own native shore."

speaker1: with three protruding straws. 
speaker2: excellent. i believe, at last, we have the right man for the job.

speaker1: ...t'was our atã© brought us to this pass... 
speaker2: what, professor?
speaker1: our overweening pride... the old woman is a more potent antagonist than one had imagined...
speaker1: ...now, lump, i'm afraid it falls to you to finish the job.
speaker1: ...the comedy must end.
speaker2: ...professor, i been doing some thinking.
speaker1: oh dear. oh dear oh dear oh dear.
speaker2: maybe she's right! maybe we should be going to church!
speaker1: oh dear, lump. i feared that those would be your words. not that i don't appreciate your giving the matter the benefit of your thought. but please recall, young man, our respective functions in this enterprise. i am a professor, the professor as you yourself so often say, the thinker, the "brains of the operation," trained in fact in the arts of cogitation. you, lump, are the goon, the hooligan, the brute whose actions must be directed by a higher intelligence.
speaker2: yeah, i know, but--
speaker1: no buts, dear boy! do not repeat the error of thinking! now is the moment of praxis! now, my dear boy, you must act!
speaker2: i can't do it, professor! a nice old lady like that!
speaker1: think of the riches, lump, that you and i alone shall divide! recall the dream of wealth untold that first drew you to this enterprise!
speaker2: but--
speaker1: and reflect also that if you decline to act, forcing me to do so, then you shall no longer have any entitlement to the money! your offices shall have been nugatory!
speaker2: you mean -- you mean -- you're gonna kill her?!
speaker1: of course! my hand would be forced!
speaker2: i can't let you do that, professor! a nice old lady like that!
speaker1: you?! allow? not allow? what presumption! you stupid boy! you very very extremely stupid boy!
speaker2: oh yeah?
speaker2: ...well who looks stupid now?
speaker2: ...huh?
speaker2: ...no bullets?

speaker1: perhaps... it had to be thus. he goes to the railing to look down. 
speaker1: "...lo, in yon brilliant window-niche how statue-like i see thee stand..." his gaze rises with the ascending birds.
speaker1: ...hm. a raven?

speaker1: mm-hm. 
speaker1: professor! she stops midway down and looks: the empty cellar. money stacked neatly on the card table.
speaker1: ...hmm. couldn't face the music.

speaker1: miz munson. 
speaker2: sheriff, i gotta make a statement.
speaker1: could it possibly wait, ma'am? we're a little busy today.
speaker2: i guess it can wait, but it's about that casino money.
speaker1: call you right back.
speaker1: ...you know something about it?
speaker2: something? everything! i got it at home.
speaker1: you... you have what at home, now?
speaker2: the money. two point six million dollars. down in my root cellar. all stacked up nice and neat.
speaker1: mm-hmm.
speaker3: how'd it get there, marva?
speaker2: bunch a desperate men that stole it put it there, that's how! they was musicians of the renaissance period, played the sackbutt and so on -- well, it turns out they really couldn't play, although they could recite poems to break your heart. their ringleader speaks in dead tongues.
speaker1: does he now.
speaker2: i tried to get you to see him! that night?
speaker1: oh yes.
speaker2: i had to yell at 'em 'bout stealin' all that money and i guess i made 'em feel pretty bad 'cause they picked up and left without takin' the money. but i was peeved with 'em, sheriff, they'd been up to all sorts of mischief, come close to blowin' up the house, disturbed othar no end.
speaker1: angry, was he?
speaker2: wouldn't you be? all that racket!
speaker1: i expect so.
speaker2: and they let pickles out too!
speaker1: so you want us to go fetch him.
speaker2: no, he's back, but what you want me to do with the money?
speaker1: well...
speaker1: ...why don't you just keep it, miz munson.
speaker2: keep it?
speaker3: you keep it, marva.
speaker2: well... i know it's only a penny offa everybody's policy...
speaker1: how's that ma'am?
speaker2: i know folks don't much care. could i... you s'pose i could...
speaker1: yes ma'am?
speaker2: could i give it all to bob jones university?
speaker1: that'd be nice, ma'am.
speaker2: ...well, long as everybody knows.
speaker1: thank you for the information, ma'am.
speaker2: you're welcome, sheriff. just doin' my duty.

speaker1: leaning, leaning, safe and secure from all harm. lean on lean on leaning on the everlasting arm. 
speaker1: ...what a fellowship, what a peace of mind, safe and secure from all harm. lean on lean on leaning on the everlasting arm...
speaker1: ...pickles!
speaker1: ...pickles!

