GENTILE BOY 1: hey mordechai, look. i dropped a penny. he drops a penny. the other children cackle. 
GENTILE GIRL 1: hey mordechai. want a bagel?
GENTILE BOY 2: hey jew nose, save some oxygen for us.
GENTILE GIRL 2: hey morty, my mom says that unless your people wise up and accept christ as your lord and savior you're all going to burn in hell.

GENTILE BOY 1: hey everybody! look what mordechai got. nice spinning top morty. 
MRS. HIGHSMITH: now, now class let's not make fun of mordechai's spinning top. we need to all learn the importance of tolerance and understanding. isn't that right mordechai?
MORDECHAI: yes mrs. highsmith.
MRS. HIGHSMITH: so class, in honor of mordechai's special day, i'd like for all of us to wish morty a heartfelt merry...
MRS. HIGHSMITH: cha-noo-kuh day 7.
MRS. HIGHSMITH: very good class. i hope you've all learned an important lesson today. just because mordechai's people are different from us...just because they might appear strange to us with their furry hats, their beady eyes, and their long sideburns...not to mention their bizarre customs and unnecessarily guttural, funny sounding names...just because they control all of the worlds' money, yet are too cheap to buy their children anything better than spinning tops for presents, does not mean that we can't learn to respect and love them as our equals.
MRS. HIGHSMITH: happy chanoo-juah-kah day 7 morty.

HAMMER: happy hanukkah maccabee. 
MACCABEE: thanks hammer!

OLD WOMAN: hammer, why don't you come eat by us for shabat. my miriam is all grown up now. willing, you should settle down and marry. 
HAMMER: thanks for the invite mrs. kleinman, but right now g dash d's the only one for me.
OLD WOMAN: i can dig it.
OLD WOMAN: hammer, you're the baaddest hebe this side of tel aviv.
HAMMER: shabat shalom!

SHLOMO: give it back! give me back my yarmulke! 
TEENAGE GENTILE: hey teddy, throw me the frisbee.
TEENAGE GENTILE: we...we were going to give it back. i swear to
HAMMER: did you just take name in vain?
TEENAGE GENTILE: no, no. it...it's not like that. we were just about...
HAMMER: just about to leave, right?
TEENAGE GENTILE: yeah, yeah, that's right. we were just about to leave. c'mon teddy. the two run off.
HAMMER: you alright?
SHLOMO: i guess. sometimes i wonder why i even bother praying to one
HAMMER: hey, hey! be proud of who you are. you're a bad, bold, big-nosed, biblical brother. you feelin' me? the kid's morale is boosted.
SHLOMO: yeah. you're right.
HAMMER: aveenooh shalom alechem little brother.
SHLOMO: thanks hammer.
HAMMER: stay jewish.

HAMMER: happy hanukkah tikva. 
TIKVA: happy hanukkah morty.
HAMMER: so, what's shakin' yenta.
TIKVA: well, for stahters, your mother called. she said to remind you that you're having shabat dinner by her tomorrow, and also to remind you to bring the manischewitz, and she wanted me to relate the following information to you.
HAMMER: okay, what's the information?
TIKVA: she said to remind you that you're having shabat dinner by her tomorrow and also to remind you to bring the manischewitz. the hammer lets this sink in.
HAMMER: anything else?
TIKVA: yeah, i'm going to be out of the office from 1:30 to 3:00 on sunday. i have a terrible yeast infection and i need to see my gynecologist.
HAMMER: but we're not open on sundays.
TIKVA: i understand that. i just thought that you might want to know.

SANTA CLAUS: i want to start by thanking all of you for pulling yourselves away from the workshop to make this emergency meeting. i know it's the busiest time of the year for all of you, so i'll try and be brief. 
SANTA CLAUS: my father, often referred to as st. nick the nasty, was a tyrannical man. he was obsessed with making christmas the only holiday anyone could celebrate before the new year. since his death, i've prided myself on ensuring that the christmas season is one of tolerance and understanding between all races and religions. it's always been my belief that hanukkah and kwanzaa deserve the same respect as christmas.
SANTA CLAUS: lights please.

SANTA CLAUS: over the course of my career as santa claus, i've made it my mission to ensure that jews, christians, and african americans could all observe their respective holidays in harmony. 
SANTA CLAUS: i was responsible for pushing the happy holidays ordinance, in which all merry christmas signage was replaced by the trans-relgious and inoffensive phrase 'happy holidays.'
SANTA CLAUS: it was nearly a decade ago, in conjunction with our friends in the jewish and african american communities that i supported a bill that mandated that 'dreidel, dreidel, dreidel' and 'i'm dreaming of a bright kwanzaa' be taught and sung in elementary schools along with the christmas standards 'frosty the snowman', and 'deck the halls.' which is why upon examination of my annual naughty and nice list it shocked me to discover that my own son, damian...
SANTA CLAUS: the heir to the red suit could be so filled with hate.
SANTA CLAUS: damian, when i learned of your ludicrous scheme to wipe out hanukkah, my first reaction was one of disgust. now, i'm only filled with sadness and disappointment. disappointed that i failed to teach you the true meaning of christmas. what do you have to say for yourself?
DAMIAN: ho. ho. ho.
SANTA CLAUS: et tu, blitzen?
SANTA: what are you midgets looking at!? get back to work! we have hanukkah to destroy!

CHIEF: gentleman! 
CHIEF: gentleman! please!
CHIEF: sheket b'vakasha! sheket b'vakasha!
HALL: hey!
CHIEF: the time for action is now. we predict that the st. nick day massacre will put hanukkah-christmas relations back at least a hundred years. with this meshuggena new santa claus in power, hanukkah is in jeopardy. our first order of business is to put into motion a plan to create goodwill towards the jewish community. mr. chairman of the worldwide jewish media conspiracy.

HARVEY WEINSTEIN: yes chief. 
CHIEF: we need your people to crank out a couple more award winning documentaries on the holocaust, possibly a new adam sandler movie.
ADL CHAIRMAN: not another adam sandler movie!
HARVEY WEINSTEIN: what's wrong with adam sandler movies?
ADL CHAIRMAN: we're trying to create goodwill here. i just think...
HARVEY WEINSTEIN: frankly, i don't care what you think. i think you're a putz.
ADL CHAIRMAN: don't defame me. i'm against that.
CHIEF: focus people. our next order of business is to assign an agent to track santa's activities. step in and use force if the situation calls for it. we need to put the toughest jew we have on the case. suggestions? suggestions, anybody? one of the jdl members calls out.
JDL MEMBER 1: what about steven spielberg?
CHIEF: c'mon, he made et. we need someone tough people. a second member calls out.
JDL MEMBER 2: what about itzahk perlman?
CHIEF: he's in a wheelchair for crying out loud.
JDL MEMBER'S 3 AND 4: allen greenspan? henry kissinger?
CHIEF: too old.
ADL CHAIRMAN: joe lieberman?
CHIEF: missing in action.
JDL MEMBER 1: robert shapiro?
CHIEF: he's a lawyer. we're looking for heros people.
HARVEY WEINSTEIN: david copperfield?
CHIEF: what's he gonna do, make santa disappear? think people think. we need a hard hittin' hebe on this one.
ESTHER: what about mordechai jefferson carver?
CHIEF: the hebrew hammer? no. no way. after the way he handled that situation in the west bank? he's the only jew in the world too extreme for the jdl. there's a reason why we kicked him out of our ranks, sweetheart. we need a man who can follow orders. a man with self-control. we need a man... the council elder, a sage looking elderly jewish man

COUNCIL ELDER: ...we need a man who can get the job done. 
ESTHER: daddy, he's our only hope. and you know it.
ADL CHAIRMAN: only problem is, ever since we kicked him out, he wants nothing to do with us. there's no way we can persuade him to come back. esther lifts her skirt a few inches.
ESTHER: perhaps i can persuade him.

HAMMER: it was the day before hanukkah when she strolled into my office. 
HAMMER: come in.
ESTHER: mr. jefferson carver?
HAMMER: please, call me mordechai.

ESTHER: sorry i'm late. traffic was a pisher, and i've been circling the block for the past half hour looking for parking. what are you listening to? 
HAMMER: oh, the things i would do to her if i had the...
HAMMER: client notes. sorry. what can i do for you?
ESTHER: my name is esther. chief bloomenbergensteinenthal from the jewish defense league desperately needs to speak with you.
HAMMER: how is old chief bloomenbergensteinenthal? is he still shtooping every girl he can get his hands on?
ESTHER: actually, his days of marital infidelity have long since past. now he just shtoops my mother exclusively.
HAMMER: your mother? oh. whoops.
ESTHER: mordechai, santa claus has been rubbed out by his son damian. the man's a demon. there's no telling what this new anti semitic psycho santa is capable of.
HAMMER: i'm sorry to hear about santa. he was a good friend, but my days...
BLONDE BOMBSHELL: mr. hammer? i'd like to hire you to put a tail on my husband. i think my life might be in danger. i think he wants to kill me.
HAMMER: sorry shiksa, i think you got the wrong office. i'm the hebrew hammer. mike hammer's down the hall.
BLONDE BOMBSHELL: oh.
HAMMER: listen. esther, you seem like a nice girl, so i'm only gonna say this once. i no longer affiliate myself with that organization. the politics there were brutal. besides, i've already got a full case load. esther looks down at his desk.
HAMMER: that's...uh...that's all done electronically now.
ESTHER: why are you being so difficult? all my father wants is to just speak with...
HAMMER: i hate to cut you short, but in an hour the sun goes down, and then it's officially the sabbath. i can't work on the sabbath. this is where we're going to have to part ways boobola.
ESTHER: i'm not leaving your side until i get you to agree to come speak with my father.
HAMMER: be my guest. but i have to warn you, i'm going to my mother's for dinner tonight. and if you think i'm difficult, wait till you meet her.

MRS. CARVER: mordechai! shabat shalom! 
HAMMER: shabat shalom mama. i brought some manischewitz. the black label.
MRS. CARVER: i can see. and you also brought a nice girl to come eat by us.
MRS. CARVER: so. do you have a name?
ESTHER: it's esther.
MRS. CARVER: from the story of purim. well, now that we're all acquainted, let's sit down and start the sabbath.

HAMMER: oy vey, i'm stuffed. 
ESTHER: i don't think i could eat another latke if you paid me.
MRS. CARVER: everybody ready for the main course?
HAMMER: mom, i think we've had enough.
MRS. CARVER: not until mordechai finishes everything in front of him.
MRS. CARVER: mordechai!? so, esther, how did you and mordechai meet. you know they call him the hebrew hammer for a reason.
HAMMER: mom! esther works for the jdl. they sent her to try and recruit me back to save hanukkah for them. what she doesn't seem to understand is that nothing, not even himself could convince me to ever work for them again.
ESTHER: but hanukkah's in dan...
HAMMER: not my problem. if you'll excuse me now, i need to use the bathroom. he stands and leaves. mrs. carver stares lovingly at esther.
MRS. CARVER: you like my mordechai, yes?
ESTHER: he's...he's very nice. but mrs. carver, the fate of hanukkah rests solely in his hands. please, you have to help me.
MRS. CARVER: hanukkah, shmanukkah. it isn't even one of the high holidays. what concerns me more is that my boychick is almost thirty, and has yet to settle down with a nice jewish girl. i'll make you a deal. i'll help you with your little hanukkah problem if you help me with my mordechai.
ESTHER: what do you want me to do?
MRS. CARVER: he works too much. forbid he should have a nice jewish girl come eat by him once in a while. take his mind off his work. maybe a here and there.
MRS. CARVER: is this something you could do for me?
HAMMER: mom, where do you keep the plunger?
MRS. CARVER: it's under the sink by my tampons!
MRS. CARVER: so, do we have a deal?
ESTHER: deal.
HAMMER: so, what did you two ladies discuss while i was gone.
MRS. CARVER: i was just telling your nice friend esther about how i used to have such a problem with the gas. so, once i started taking two charcoal pills before i ate, the gas cleared itself right up.
ESTHER: thanks. that's...good to know.
MRS. CARVER: mordechai. do you love your mother?
HAMMER: mom, stop with this already. of course i love you. you're my mother.
MRS. CARVER: then how come you won't stop this certified circumcised nonsense and get yourself a real job.
HAMMER: mom, i have a real job. i do good things for this community. i help people.
MRS. CARVER: when i play bridge with all the girls, everyone has what to talk about with their sons. they show pictures. their sons are lawyers and doctors and rabbis.
HAMMER: so don't show a picture.
MRS. CARVER: you know my friend maureen? her son, the investment banker? he paid for her entire retirement in boca raton. what a mench he is. instead of schleping to save hanukkah, forbid you should go back to business school and get an mba. maybe then you could send me to boca, too. this puts the hammer into a neurotic fit.
HAMMER: oh. oh, what. so, all of a sudden my saving hanukkah's not good enough for you? is that what your saying?
MRS. CARVER: i don't want to argue with you. let's just eat in peace.
HAMMER: no. no. we're gonna argue. and you know what mom? i'm going to save hanukkah just to spite you. and when my face is all over the television. when your friends are opening their hanukkah gifts next year, don't mention it to them, okay? i wouldn't want you to have to show my picture.
MRS. CARVER: do what you must.
MRS. CARVER: such a good boy he is. the hammer shakes his head in frustration.
MRS. CARVER: mazel tov!
MRS. CARVER: what's that mazel tov? your diaper needs changing?
MRS. CARVER: let's let your tuchus breathe.
HAMMER: mom, why don't you put that cat out of its misery?
MRS. CARVER: anybody hungry for desert?

COMPUTERIZED VOICE: jew confirmation test initiated. 
HAMMER: you've gotta be kidding me. they're still doing this?
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: please state your full hebrew name.
HAMMER: mordechai baruch netanyahoo.
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: please state the six dishes found on the passover seder plate in alphabetical order?
HAMMER: beitzah, charoset, chazeret, karpas, maror, and zeroa.
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: please demonstrate musical aptitude.
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: please step forward and remove your undergarments.
HAMMER: oooh. that's cold.
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: circumcision confirmed.
COMPUTERIZED VOICE: final test initiated.
HAMMER: hello? can anybody hear me? i think this machine is broken or something. hello? this is ridiculous! i didn't even want to come here. i shlep all the way out to the middle of nowhere, for lord knows what purpose, and...
HAMMER: i am so unhappy with this situation. why mordechai? why do you always feel it necessary to do what other people want you to do? why can't you be your own man...
CHIEF: come on. come on.
CHIEF: he's still got it.
CHIEF: welcome back hammer.

HAMMER: a minion practicing jew-do, the deadly fighting art. cool. 
CHIEF: there's more. follow me.
CHIEF: we've even relaxed our centuries old admissions criteria.
CHIEF: mordechai jefferson carver, i'd like for you to meet the jewish defense league's first black jewish agent. a close personal friend of mine, agent sammy davis jr. jr.
SAMMY DAVIS JR. JR.: the hebrew hammer? i've heard about this cat. your beautiful babe. keep on keeping on. the hammer is a bit taken back.
HAMMER: alright. i'll, uh, keep doing that.
CHIEF: sammy, if you'll excuse us, mordechai and i have business to attend to.
SAMMY DAVIS JR. JR.: you two cats keeps purrin'.

CHIEF: alright mordechai, now that we're alone i just want to say that i'm not happy about this. i don't want a repeat of that incident in the west bank. 
HAMMER: i got the job done didn't i? i did what i had to do.
CHIEF: a settlement completely demolished, ten smashed army jeeps, four dead arabs. g dash d it, hammer! you think you're above the ten commandments? just find santa claus and bring him back to us. no heroics, got it?
HAMMER: hey, it's your bar mitzvah. i'm just readin' the torah portion.
CHIEF: well it's good to see that you can be so nonchalant about the whole thing.
HAMMER: i guess i could be chalant about it, but then again i'm not even sure if that's a word. listen chief, we could stand around arguing all day, but i gotta case to crack.
CHIEF: what's your first move?
HAMMER: i'm gonna pay a visit to the k.l.f. see if they've got the 411 on santa's location. i'll check in with you when i know more.
CHIEF: you be careful hammer.
CHIEF: the fate of hanukkah rests squarely on your shoulders.
HAMMER: okay. you guys have seriously got to stop with that stuff. that's a lot of pressure to put on one jew. i'm only human you know. i'm already shvitzing about the whole thing. you know, believe it or not, i'm allowed to make mistakes, too. i can only do the best that i can do, and that's just gonna have to be good enough for all of you. a reaction shot of the befuddled chief.
HAMMER: just...just stop with that. okay?

BLACK TEENAGER: hey, yo, we got ourselves a visitor. 
BAAAD BROTHER: who is it?
BLACK TEENAGER: it's some pimped out hebrew dude in a caddy.
MOHAMMED: the hebrew hammer! my main kike!
HAMMER: mohammed ali paula abdul rahim. my main nigga!
WHITE ACCOUNTANT: you...you just called him a kike.
WHITE ACCOUNTANT: and you. you just called him a nigger.
MOHAMMED: well it's okay when we call each other that.
WHITE ACCOUNTANT: oh.
MOHAMMED: so morde-chai, tell me, what brings your bad self down to the klf?
HAMMER: i'm back on the job for the jdl. you hear about that crazy white boy who took over as santa?
MOHAMMED: oh, most definitely. got the brothers here in full alert mode.
MOHAMMED: gotta always be cool under pressure. you know what i'm sayin.
HAMMER: true dat. true dat. so, what's the word on the street?
MOHAMMED: word is that papa's got a brand new bag, and it's velvety red, and it ain't gonna be overnight fed-exed to jerusalem. if you know what i mean.
HAMMER: actually, i...i don't. what does that mean?
MOHAMMED: oh. it means that santa's gonna hanukkah's up.
HAMMER: not if i can help it. you got any information for me?
MOHAMMED: i don't. but i know somebody who does.

MOHAMMED: jamal, i'd like for you to meet the hebrew hammer. 
JAMAL: 'sup.
MOHAMMED: i'd like for you to tell him what you told me.
JAMAL: a'ight, a'ight, cool. yo, it's like this. that santy claus be trippin'. first that kills his own pops, then he start talkin' 'bout bustin a cap in hanukkah's ass. next, the racist kick my out the workshop, sayin' that there ain't no room for no little colored elves like me. can you believe that yo, if it wasn't for the arthritis in my joints, you best believe that i'd be...

HAMMER: is there anything else you can tell me? his hangouts, his next move, anything? 
JAMAL: well, come to think of it, there is one thing. before i left, i was packin' up my and i overheard the talkin' to some business pahtnah or something. sayin that he'd meet him today at some joint called duke's. round five o'clock if my memory serves. when he got off the phone and jetted, i scoped the room for some jewelry, cash, whatevers. you know, a severance package. didn't find any duckets, but i did this.
HAMMER: thanks little brother, you've been a big help.
JAMAL: fool, ain't no thang. if it wasn't for my real brothers here at the k.l.f., i'd be shining shoes at the train station or getting my afro tossed up against a velcro wall in some redneck bar somewhere. i finally gots a place where i belong. christmas. i'm all about smoking blunts and pimpin' i'm all about kwanzaa nigga! mohammed and the hammer head towards the door.
MOHAMMED: he's new. he's still got a long way to go before he understands the true meaning of kwanzaa.
HAMMER: thanks again mo, you always deliver the goods.
MOHAMMED: you watch your back hammer. hanukkah might just be his first move. for all we know kwanzaa could be next. there's a lot of brothers counting on you. if you fail...
HAMMER: okay, look. i'm going to work really, really hard on this one. but, please stop with the pressure. i'm already tense as it is.
MOHAMMED: it's cool. it's cool. aveenooh shalom alechem, brother.
HAMMER: alekem salam.

SALVATION NAVY GUY: it's me. he's on his way. 
SANTA: excellent. everything is going as planned.

SANTA: with the hebrew hammer out of the picture, hanukkah will be nothing more than a confusing and hard to pronounce word. i want to thank you very much jamal for all of your help. 
JAMAL: pfff. nigga, ain't no thang. hey, yo santy claus, so does this mean that you gonna make me an official elf now?
SANTA: can you believe this guy tiny tim?
SANTA: take a look around you jamal. do you see any colored midgets in my workshop?
SANTA: your presence would be a disruption to the utopian model of efficiency i've created here.
JAMAL: that's some cold
HEAD ELF: utopian model of efficiency my ass! ever since you took charge, this place has been more like a sweatshop.
HEAD ELF: we know our rights santa! you're in violation of the union regulations! we're going on strike!
SANTA: you know something, you're right.
HEAD ELF: really?
SANTA: yeah. this is a sweatshop. and since you elves aren't willing to do the work, i made arrangements to have some taiwanese children shipped over. and i might add, they're more than willing to work for peanuts. santa performs the two fingered whistle.
SANTA: come on in boys!

TINY TIM: so, what's our first plan of attack santa? 
SANTA: while i was in taiwan negotiating the solution to our labor problems, i came across a factory that illegally manufactures the most addictive, jewish pride weakening substance on the planet. i bought the entire plant.
SANTA: i want you and your men to target every young person in the jewish neighborhoods of every major city of this country. i want you to flood their streets with this product.
TINY TIM: what should i charge?
SANTA: oh, that's the beauty of it. these are free samples.
TINY TIM: so what's in the boxes? heroin? cocaine?
SANTA: worse.
SANTA: bootleg copies of the frank capra classic, 'it's a wonderful life.'
TINY TIM: that's some cold

HAMMER: manischewitz. straight up. 
SKINHEAD BARTENDER: usually we don't serve your kind. but since you had the to walk in here, kike, i'll pour you one last drink before we lynch you. the bartender reaches for a bottle of cherry flavored
HAMMER: actually, can i have the black label?
HAMMER: i figure if this is my last drink, you might as well leave the bottle.
SKINHEAD BARTENDER: be my guest.
HAMMER: do you guys take shekels? i just got back from a trip in israel, and all i've got is a fistful of shekels. he drops a fistful of shekels on the bar. a few skinheads slowly begin to approach the bar.
HAMMER: 5733. that was a good year for me.
HAMMER: shabat shalom, motherfuckers.

TELEVISION SET: papa, papa! mommy says that every time you hear the sound of a bell ringing an angel gets his wings! 
JEWISH MOTHER: maccabee! it's time to light the menorah!

HAMMER: shlomo, you okay? 
SHLOMO: mommy says that every time you hear the sound of a bell ringing, an angel gets his wings!
HAMMER: huh.
SHLOMO: mommy says that every time you hear the sound of a bell ringing, an angel gets his wings!
HAMMER: bootleg 'it's a wonderful life' from taiwan.
HAMMER: sixty five percent pure. people could get hurt watching this come with me.
SHLOMO: chaim potok's the chosen?
HAMMER: get yourself home and watch this as soon as possible.
SHLOMO: mommy says that every time you hear the sound of a bell ringing, an angel gets his wings!
HAMMER: hey, hey, hey! you can beat this. now get going.

HAMMER: chief, it's me. listen carefully. i need for the worldwide jewish media conspiracy to mass produce video copies of every hollywood movie ever made featuring a positive jewish protagonist as its lead. 
CHIEF: you mean you want us to make copies of yentl, fiddler on the roof, and chaim potok's the chosen?
HAMMER: that'll work. get them out to the jewish community stat. we got an epidemic on our hands.
CHIEF: we're on it hammer. how'd you do with santa?
HAMMER: it was a trap. i'm back at square one.
CHIEF: well, then i've got good news for you. we just got word that he'll be making an appearance at the mall of america today. i'm sending esther to meet you there at once.
HAMMER: good thinking. we'll disguise ourselves as a gentile couple to pass undetected. now that he thinks i'm dead, this should be a piece of homentashen.
CHIEF: one last thing hammer. you take care of yourself. the...
HAMMER: the fate of hanukkah. right. right. yeah, got it. will do. okay, bye now. he hangs up and leaves.

TONY: nothing stirring here. 
BLONDE GENTILE GIRL: can i be next? please, please!
TONY: let's get a look at you, shall we.
TONY: a power girls t. very nice. alright, now spin around.
TONY: very nice! alright. you're cool. go on and see santa, sunshine.
FRECKLE FACED GENTILE BOY: that's not fair! how come she gets to go next? we were here first!
TONY: oh really! is that a fact? well guess what buddy? you ain't gettin' in to see santa today, so why don't you just turn around and high tail it home.
FRECKLE FACED GENTILE BOY: but i've been waiting to see santa all year.
TONY: but i've been waiting to see santa all year.
TONY: you heard me. get moving punk!

ESTHER: any sign of santa? 
HAMMER: he must be behind that curtain. relax. we're undercover. we need to give off the appearance of calm. you see esther, the trick to undercover work is to try and blend in. act as a gentile would.
SAMPLES WOMAN: could i interest you in a free sample bacon cheeseburger?
HAMMER: while i thank you, gentile friend, for your generous offer of that deliciously unkosher snack, i sadly have to decline for i stuffed myself full of meat and milk product at a prior lunch engagement.
ESTHER: you're good.
TONY: can i have everyone's attention please. in fifteen minutes, santa's gonna have to leave.
TONY: ah, don't be like that kids. we gotta lot work to do if we're gonna get all those presents out in time.
TONY: hey! hey! you want presents for christmas? you want barbies with heads screwed on backwards? you want remote control cars without the batteries included. then be my guest!
ESTHER: what are we going to do? we're at least an hour from the front.
HAMMER: c'mon follow me.
ESTHER: is that...? no, couldn't be.
TONY: hey, hey! not so fast.
HAMMER: we have to get through. it's an emergency.
TONY: sorry pal, you're gonna have to wait in line just like all the other parents.
ESTHER: we're so sorry to have to cut, but our beautiful gentile boy ran on ahead of us in line.
ESTHER: it would mean so much to paul and i if you'd let us through to see santa.
TONY: well...umm, when you put it that way. sure go on through.
HAMMER: you're good!

SANTA: and what do the jewish people do during hanukkah? 
JIMMY: they worship the devil and sacrifice small gentile children like me in bizarre, sadistic rituals.
SANTA: that's right. santa can tell that you've been a very good boy this year. run along now jimmy.
SANTA: sorry folks, i don't do couples.
HAMMER: if you keep your mouth shut and come with me, you won't get hurt.
SANTA: excuse me? do i know you, friend? take a look around you. do you even know who i am?
HAMMER: let me guess, you're the goy who stole hanukkah.
SANTA: the hebrew hammer! you're alive.
HAMMER: what's your shpiel, santa?
SANTA: whoa, whoa there. c'mon mordechai, is this any way to treat an old family friend? let's cut out all the unpleasantness. i admit, i went way overboard with the whole hanukkah thing. let me make it up to you. how about a peace offering? girls.
SANTA: bambi. tawni. i'd like for you to meet world renown semitic super stud, mordechai jefferson carver.
BAMBI: oh, i declare i just love jewish men. they're so sensitive and well read. esther is clearly jealous.
HAMMER: sorry santa. i like my women like my matzah. unleavened.
HAMMER: this is where you go down.
TONY: hey, hurry it up in there. we gotta bunch of kids...
TONY: oh
ESTHER: back it up buddy!
MC HAMMER: please hammer, don't hurt em'!
HAMMER: let's do this clean. i don't want to make a scene santa. santa stands up slowly with his hands raised.
SANTA: well, it's a bit too late for that now, isn't it? excuse me children, if i could have your attention for a moment.
HAMMER: what are you doing?
SANTA: i'm just calming the kiddies. there's no need to worry about santa. he's just having a peaceful, adult conversation with his nice jewish friend, the hebrew hammer.
HAMMER: hey everybody. how's it hangin'?
SANTA: in fact, he's just informed me that he personally plans on cancelling christmas this year.
SANTA: why don't we show him how that makes us feel.

HAMMER: it's over. we're doomed. 
ESTHER: shh. shh, listen. do you hear that?
HAMMER: what is that?
HARRIET TUBBELMAN: psst. hammer, esther. this way. hurry!

HAMMER: you saved our lives. thank you. how can i ever repay you...? 
HARRIET TUBBELMAN: ...my name is harriet tubbelman, but you can call me moses. the only payment i ask mordechai, is that you keep hanukkah safe for us all.
HARRIET TUBBELMAN: you should be safe from here on out. just follow the river to it's conclusion.
HARRIET TUBBELMAN: oh yeah, and keep your arms and legs inside the water craft at all times.
HAMMER: where are we? what is this place?
HARRIET TUBBELMAN: welcome to the underground jewish

HAMMER: that got annoying fairly quickly. 
ESTHER: yeah, no kidding.
CARNIVAL WORKER: tickets please.

HAMMER: nah, we're kosher. thanks though. 
ESTHER: so, now what?
HAMMER: now we wait for santa to make his next move.
HAMMER: want to get a drink?
ESTHER: sure. why not.

BANDLEADER: hey! the hebrew hammer everybody! 
ESTHER: so, do you come here often!?
HAMMER: what was that!?
ESTHER: i said, do you come here often!?
HAMMER: oh. yeah, about once a week!
ESTHER: what!?
HAMMER: i said, yeah, about once a week!
ESTHER: oh!
HASIDIC BAR PATRON: would you like to dance?
HAMMER: i'm okay right now. thanks though.
JOSHUA: hey morty, wanna cut a rug?
HAMMER: nah, i'm good. i'm kind of here with somebody.
JOSHUA: oh. okay. maybe next time.
HAMMER: yeah. maybe next time joshua. take it easy.
CHAIM FEYGELE: well shalom there mister!
HAMMER: do we know each other?
CHAIM FEYGELE: no, but we have mutual friends.
CHAIM FEYGELE: the name's feygele. chaim feygele.
HAMMER: mordechai. my friends call me morty.
CHAIM FEYGELE: so morty, i just love a man in a black suit. care to dance.
HAMMER: uhhh. you know, i...have to go to the bathroom. i'll be right back. the hammer gets up quickly and leaves.
HAMMER: hey there.
ESTHER: hey.
HAMMER: do you want to get out of here?
ESTHER: i would love to get out of here.

ESTHER: ouch! 
HAMMER: sorry. i'm better with men.
ESTHER: maybe we should try a different kind of dancing.
HAMMER: you mean like disco dancing or doing the funky chicke...oh. i get it.
HAMMER: now we're talking boobola.
ESTHER: mordechai?
HAMMER: yes esther.
ESTHER: i want you to talk dirty to me.
HAMMER: oh. okay.
HAMMER: i want to have lots of children by you. get a good paying, stable job. settle down in long island somewhere. someplace nice. fancy. but not fancy schmancy.
HAMMER: i want for our children to go to private schools and take music lessons. little abraham will go to stanford for college, batya will go ivy league, maybe vassar.
ESTHER: keep going.
HAMMER: afterwards they'll make the decision as to whether or not they'd like to continue their religious studies in israel. because, hey, after all we'll have practiced the highly effective assertive democratic style of child rearing, sprinkled with a healthy dose of liberalism.
ESTHER: oh yes! keep going! don't stop!
HAMMER: also, on a daily basis, i want you to tell me what to do, where to do it, and how i should live my life.
ESTHER: kiss me you semitic stud!
ESTHER: shabat shalom!

ESTHER: wow, that was amazing. 
ESTHER: what did you just snort?
HAMMER: antihistamine. it's for my allergies. the capsules make me gassy. she relaxes.
HAMMER: you know, i've been thinking about what santa's got planned for us next. maybe he'll...
ESTHER: your mother was right. you do work too hard.
HAMMER: oh, she said that, did she? what else did mommy dearest have to say?
ESTHER: well, she also said that you need to find a nice girl to help take your mind off of your work. i'm just glad she thought i was good enough for you. the hammer sits up.
HAMMER: when did you guys have this conversation? when i was in the bathroom? what else did she have to say?
ESTHER: relax morty, i think your mom is wonderful. she cares so much about you. get this, while you were gone she said she'd help me get you to work with the jdl if i'd come eat by you once in awhile. like i needed any incentive to be with you. she's so...
HAMMER: what? you made a deal with my mother to sleep with me if i'd help you?!
ESTHER: no. of course...
HAMMER: what does that make you? what does that make me? and my mother. what does that make her?
HAMMER: oh my she's become my pimp. and she's whoring her bitch-son out to the highest bidder.
ESTHER: no. it's not like that. you're being completely neurotic. i was just playing along...
HAMMER: always meddling in my life. this is so typical of her. but from you? i thought we had something good here.
ESTHER: we do!
HAMMER: i'm sorry esther, i just don't think we can see each other romantically anymore. the phone rings, and the hammer picks it up.
HAMMER: hammer here.
CHIEF: hammer, it's the chief. we've got ourselves a situation. get yourself down here, i've got something you need to see.

CHIEF: mordechai. thank you're here. 
HAMMER: what's up?
CHIEF: about an hour ago, we received this transmission from the north pole.
SANTA: and now my hanukkah loving friends, i will reveal to you the true nature of my diabolical scheme.
SANTA: the jewish atomic clock, located in the outskirts of jerusalem. keeper of time for the jewish calendar. powered by judeum. an element so rare, it exists only inside the clock itself.
SANTA: once i extract the judeum from the clock, the jewish calendar will cease to exist, forever eradicating hanukkah. in less than twenty four hours, which by your jewish calendar is approximately...
SANTA: can i borrow that pen and notepad?
SANTA: four years and three quarters a lunar cycle? well, whatever! in less than twenty four christian hours, hanukkah will be nothing more than a fond memory. tiny tim.
TINY TIM: merry christmas everybody, and bless us, everyone. the two laugh hysterically.
SANTA: end transmission.
SANTA: so, how was i?
TINY TIM: it was good. very chilling, but you still got all the points across that we talked about.
SANTA: really? good, good.
SANTA: i wasn't too over the top?
TINY TIM: no, it was the perfect level.
SANTA: thanks. oh, did i tell you. i picked up that new kc and the sunshine band record that you recommended. you were right, it is good.
SANTA: why is the red light on the camera still on? are you still filming me!?
SANTA: you ass... static fills the screen.
HAMMER: looks like i got a plane to catch.
CHIEF: take esther with you, you'll need the backup.
HAMMER: no way, it's too dangerous. besides, my days of hooking are over.
ESTHER: you're not my mordechai. please, you have to believe me.
CHIEF: did i miss something here?
HAMMER: it's a long story. i'll explain when i get back from saving the clock.
HAMMER: alone.
CHIEF: tail him. he's gonna need the help.

HAMMER: do you speak english? 
ISRAELI RENTAL AGENT: yes. chello.
HAMMER: chello.
HAMMER: i need to rent your biggest cadillac. preferably lowered, with white wall tires.
ISRAELI RENTAL AGENT: i'm so sorry sir, but somebody just rented our last chadillac.
HAMMER: well what else do you have?
ISRAELI RENTAL AGENT: well, we do have a ch...
HAMMER: whatever it is, i'll take it.

HEAD ELF: what's this doing here? 
ELF FLUNKY: not sure. i think it was left over from an israeli robbie kneivel television special. you want me to get rid of it?
HEAD ELF: no time. besides, it's not like someone's gonna jump their motorcycle into the building while we're inside. the head thug elf points up towards the sky.
HEAD ELF: there's santa now.
TINY TIM: you okay?
SANTA: no. i'm airsick you asshole! where the did these reindeer learn to fly?
TINY TIM: i don't know. why don't you ask them sir. santa takes this in.

SANTA: who's the leader of this operation? 
SANTA: what's your major malfunction, dumbfuck!? rudolph's scared shitless.
SANTA: step forward son!
TINY TIM: uh, he can't sir. the harnesses.
SANTA: you gonna learn to guide this sled right? you gonna make sure your men follow suit? because if i'm puking down chimneys come christmas eve, i'm gonna have your hide. we clear?
SANTA: you eyeballin' me son!?
SANTA: i didn't think so.

SANTA: the jewish atomic clock. 
SANTA: get moving! we've got work to do!

HAMMER: uh. can you just give me one second? santa is confused. 
HAMMER: let's dance the hora!
SANTA: get him boys!
ESTHER: mordechai! behind you!
HAMMER: what are you doing here?
ESTHER: mordechai, i love you. i couldn't let you do this alone.
HAMMER: i love you too. i'm sorry about freaking out yesterday. i was wrong.
ESTHER: i forgive you.
HAMMER: go check on the clock. i'll finish up here.
TINY TIM: uh oh.
SANTA: get off of me you cripple!
TINY TIM: what are we gonna do? he's got us on the ropes.
ESTHER: what's the matter?
HAMMER: i don't know. i'm feeling kind of tired.
SANTA: what's going on? why'd he stop?
TINY TIM: maybe he ran out of ammo.
SANTA: take a look.
TINY TIM: well, he's kinda just resting in the corner with his girlfriend.
SANTA: resting?
SANTA: what day is it?
TINY TIM: it's friday.
SANTA: what time is it?
TINY TIM: i don't know. about sundown i guess.
SANTA: why didn't i think of this? it's the sabbath.
SANTA: the day of rest. he can't fight on the sabbath. c'mon, get up. we've got him beat.
SANTA: well, well, well. it looks as if the hebrew hammer's got a weakness after all.
SANTA: finish extracting the judeum from the clock. tiny tim, i want you to introduce the hebrew hammer to the christmas spirit.
TINY TIM: you want me to be nice to him for no apparent reason whatsoever, buy him clothing he'll never wear, and for just one day of the year pretend to forgive him for all the horrible things he did to me as a young boy when my mommy wasn't looking?
SANTA: no dipshit, i want you to kill him.
TINY TIM: oh.
SANTA: santa's gonna take the sled back to the north pole and celebrate his victory with his new stocking stuffer.
HAMMER: esther!
ESTHER: mordechai!
TINY TIM: take a look hammer. the clock's already beginning to power down.
TINY TIM: ah. what's the matter? no more snappy one liners. it seems all is lost when...
JAMAL: merry kwanzaa nigga!

CHIEF: mordechai, you're back. the clock? 
HAMMER: still ticking. thanks to the help from the brothers at the klf, hanukkah's safe for now.
CHIEF: that's wonderful! the chief notices the hammer's dejected look.
CHIEF: so why the long face?
HAMMER: it's esther. santa's got her.
CHIEF: my esther! oh mordechai.
CHIEF: please. will you help me?
HAMMER: i love her sir. if i don't help you, i won't be able to make her my wife. mohammed ali paula abdul rahim has agreed to come with me to the north pole on a rescue mission.
MOHAMMED: asalam alekem.
CHIEF: you're a mench. thank you. mordechai, by any means necessary, you bring my esther back to me. even if it requires using judaism's most powerful weapon.
HAMMER: oh no, not the...
HAMMER: there won't be any need for that sir.
CHIEF: hammer, the fate of my daughter rests solely in your hands.
HAMMER: i know sir. i won't let you down.
HAMMER: sammy davis jr. jr.
SAMMY DAVIS JR. JR.: you two cats are beautiful. i love you guys. you take care babe.
MOHAMMED: what's wrong with him?
HAMMER: he's still working out some identity issues.

HAMMER: it's gonna be tough, but the back entrance looks like our best bet. 
MOHAMMED: i wanted to ask you, how were you able to pinpoint the exact location of santa's workshop? we've been trying to gain that piece of surveillance for years. the hammer puts the binoculars down.
HAMMER: this is the year 5734. it's time the boys at the klf got into the 58th century. let me show you something. the hammer pulls out a laptop computer.
HAMMER: the jdl supplies all its agents with this state of the art device called a laptop computator.
MOHAMMED: cool. what's it do?
HAMMER: now this might get a bit technical, but try and stay with me. using a highly sophisticated connection of other computators, called the internet, i can access surveillance maps, villian biographical information, and even sports scores with a few simple keystrokes of this electronic typewriter.
MOHAMMED: man, that's far out! hey, the jets won!
HAMMER: but wait, there's more. with a few swift clicks of this hand-computer interface, commonly referred to as a mouse, i can download illicit pornographic material and even send it along to a friend via a cyber postal route known as e-mail. mo's interest is seriously peaked.
MOHAMMED: porno? you're tellin' me that you can get on that thing?
HAMMER: oh yeah. take a look.
HAMMER: for example, here's a picture of your sister tawanda getting freaky with a german shepard.
MOHAMMED: gettin' freaky with a what?
MOHAMMED: oy vey, that's almost as bad. that's tawanda getting freaky with a notorious white supremacist.
MOHAMMED: where's the white out button on this thing?
COMPUTERIZED FEMALE VOICE: message sent.
MOHAMMED: what just happened?
HAMMER: remember that bit about the cyber postal route?
MOHAMMED: yeah.
HAMMER: nah, forget about it.

SANTA: rudolph, more egg nog! 
SANTA: ho, ho, ho.
SASSY BLACK PROSTITUTE: listen i already told you! i don't care how much yo is payin' me, if you call me that one more time there ain't gonna be no more visits down to the south pole! you feelin' me!? his ego deflates a bit.
SANTA: yes maam, loud and clear.
SASSY BLACK PROSTITUTE: sugar, what happened to you?
TINY TIM: santa, i got some really bad news.

MOHAMMED: what are you doing? 
HAMMER: just praying to that we don't kill ourselves going over this wall.
HAMMER: you know, you don't have to hold on to my waist. you're tied in.
MOHAMMED: i knew that.

MOHAMMED: well, that was easy. 
HAMMER: wait! before we enter, you need to know that my research has determined that santa's compound is wired with the xp 2000 stereo type alarm system.
MOHAMMED: a stereo type alarm system?
HAMMER: take a look.

MOHAMMED: how do we bypass it? 
HAMMER: the alarm will trigger if the system detects any non-w.a.s.p. tendencies inside the building. for example, if you were to dribble a basketball, or eat watermelon, or use the word dawg...that is, spelled with an aw as opposed to the letter o...within the confines of this workshop, the alarm would sound.
MOHAMMED: listen cat, i'll have you know that i hate the taste of watermelon and am a terrible basketball player.
HAMMER: well that's good news for us. it means the system is outdated. this should be easy. c'mon.

MOHAMMED: it's all clear. let's go. 
HAMMER: mo, i think you dropped some...
MOHAMMED: hammer, no!
LOUDSPEAKERS: jewdar alert! jewdar alert!
INTENSE GUNFIRE.: the hammer exits the room.
HAMMER: let's go!
GUNFIRE.: the hammer exits.
HAMMER: c'mon, let's go!
MOHAMMED: what are you doing?
HAMMER: offscreen gunfire. that jewish atomic clock stuff ate up a lot of our budget.

MOHAMMED: there's tiny tim. 
MOHAMMED: i'll take tiny tim. you go find your woman.
SANTA: hey, what's that over there? is that a bowl of matzah ball soup?
HAMMER: 

MOHAMMED: now i'm gonna do to you what i should have done earlier. 
TINY TIM: my crutches. noooo. not my crutches.

HAMMER: where's my girlfriend santa? 
SANTA: i don't have to tell you anything hammer! you're gonna have to kill me before i tell you! the hammer's confused.
HAMMER: but if i kill you, then you'll be dead. santa thinks about this for a couple seconds.
SANTA: good point.
WHERE THE HEBREW HAMMER'S GIRLFRIEND IS.": the hammer grins mischievously at santa.
HAMMER: don't worry your pretty little head.

HAMMER: that was a warning shot. 
ESTHER: mordechai! i'm in here! help! the hammer turns towards the sound.
SANTA: looks like the tables have turned once again hammer.
SANTA: and you won't even be able to say goodbye to your esther. so sad. so long mordechai. give my father my regards. santa readies to fire.
HAMMER: wait! i didn't want it to come to this, but you leave me no choice. i have no other option but to use the most powerful weapon in the jewish arsenal.
SANTA: what are you doing?
HAMMER: i shlepped all the way to the north pole for this? i come to fight you, and you don't even put out anything to nosh on? what kind of arch nemesis are you?
SANTA: hah! jewish guilt. well, it won't work on me hammer. i'm too strong for it.
HAMMER: what sort of host would treat company this way? esther is clearly uncomfortable in your guest room. i'm shvitizing from running around shooting people. and my feet. what kind of flooring is this anyway? my arches are killing me.
SANTA: no. stop it!
HAMMER: and to top it off, you didn't even have the courtesy to give me a proper hello when i entered the room. what have i ever done to you to be treated with such disrespect?
SANTA: please, make it stop. i'll do anything. here take my gun.
SANTA: shoot me. please, just one to the head. put me out of misery.
MOHAMMED: hammer, you alright?
HAMMER: everything's kosher. watch him for me.

LATER: the hammer kicks open the door. 
HAMMER: esther!
ESTHER: mordechai!
HAMMER: joseph lieberman?
JOSEPH LIEBERMAN: mordechai! thank you're here.
ESTHER: you two know each other?
HAMMER: we go to the same temple.
HAMMER: mo, get him out of my sight. mo begins to take santa away.
HAMMER: no, wait. i need closure here. i just wanna say one thing. you know where you messed up santa? you underestimated the true meaning of hanukkah.
SANTA: please tell me. what is the true meaning of hanukkah?
HAMMER: that's...that's a very good question. and i do know that it does have something to do with...dreidels, and... esther chimes in.
ESTHER: ...and latkes.
HAMMER: and latkes! and some miracle oil that lasted eight days. and that my friend, should've been enough for you. take him away mo.
SANTA: i'm sorry. i see the light now. i was wrong. i'm... and santa's gone.
HAMMER: esther bloomenbergensteinenthal, will you marry me? she glows.
ESTHER: yes! of course! i'd gladly give up my last name to be with you. the two kiss in celebration.
JOE LIEBERMAN: what happened out there?
JOE LIEBERMAN: oh mordechai, you know how i detest gore.
HAMMER: well then maybe you should have thought about that before you ran with him. c'mon, let's get you back to washington.

MRS. CARVER: shabat shalom everybody! 
HAMMER/ESTHER: shabat shalom!
HAMMER: and a merry christmas to all of our gentile friends. mun chi.
HAMMER: before we start the sabbath, i'd personally just like to thank for all the blessings i've received over the past year. a beautiful fiancee...
HAMMER: ...a wonderful mother...
HAMMER: ...and the opportunity to help my brothers and sisters in the jewish community.
MRS. CARVER: well i'm just glad you're safe bubba shaina, and eating by your mother for shabos.
HAMMER: thanks mom.
MRS. CARVER: but with all the attention the newspapers and television have given you, you'd think that you were the pope or something.
HAMMER: well, i did save hanukkah mom. my children, and my children's children, and my children's children's children...
HAMMER: ...and their children will all be able to eat latkes and spin dreidels, and light the menorah with the knowl...
MRS. CARVER: ...so you saved hanukkah mr. big shot. i mean, let's be honest mordechai, it isn't even one of the high holidays. mordechai looks to esther. she shrugs her shoulders in encouragement.
MRS. CARVER: now, if you had saved passover or yom kipur, then maybe you'd have what to brag about. did i tell you that my friend maureen's son, the investment banker, was responsible for a very big merger on...
HAMMER: ...no, no, no, no, no. i see what you're doing here. so all of a sudden hanukkah's not good enough for you, is that right?
HAMMER: well i have news for you mom. it is good enough...i'm good enough and i won't leave here until i hear you tell me...
MRS. CARVER: mazel tov!
MRS. CARVER: hello mazel tov! a boojee boojee boojee boo...
HAMMER: ...i'm not finished yet, mom.
MRS. CARVER: ...a boojee boojee boojee boo. what's that mazel tov? your tuchus needs some more airing out?
HAMMER: mom! we're eating!
MRS. CARVER: what a good you made in your diaper mazel tov! that's right! mommy loves you! such a good boy you are! this gets the hammer going.
HAMMER: oh, i get it. to you, the cat pooping in his diaper is somehow better than my saving a jewish holiday. forget it.
MRS. CARVER: so, what are you two planning after the wedding?
ESTHER: well, for starters, we're going to honeymoon in boca for a week. and then, when we get back, morty's been talking about taking a stable, good paying job as a consultant for the jdl.
MRS. CARVER: well, i couldn't be happier for the both of you.
HAMMER: i think i hear the new santa claus busy at work. c'mon.
MRS. CARVER: i forgot to ask you, who'd they put in charge as the new santa claus?
HAMMER: since santa will be living out the rest of his days at a home for the religionally insane and because he had no blood heirs, the kwanzaa liberation front and the jewish defense league agreed to make the whole santa claus process a democratic vote. we're all very pleased with the first santa elect.
HAMMER: look, there he is now.
HAMMER: merry christmas jamal.
JAMAL: merry christmas niggas!

