speaker1: where's the crash cart!? 
speaker2: love sure is a funny thing... it makes you happy. makes you sad. makes you do all sorts of things you never thought you'd do before. love's the reason i'm here actually.

speaker1: i still don't see it. 
speaker2: it's right there.
speaker3: it's really big.
speaker4: steeeeeeeeeven...
speaker4: steeeeeeeeeven...

speaker1: are you a happy little boy steven? 
speaker1: you've always been such a happy little boy. now steven, we want to tell you something very important, but i want you to understand that it doesn't change a thing.
speaker1: we're still gonna love you, you're still gonna be our happy little boy and you're still gonna--
speaker2: you're adopted.
speaker3: shut up!
speaker1: it's true.
speaker1: your brother overheard your dad and i talking and well, we didn't want you to hear it from anybody but us. it's true. you're a special little boy. you know why? because we chose you. not like your brother here who's natural.
speaker4: your mother's right. it's cause we love you. so we put some money in a brown paper bag and gave it to your real mom in the hospital parking lot so you could come home with us. okay?
speaker1: it doesn't change a thing honey. we love you just as much as we love your brother here... ...and he's natural.
speaker4: so son, are you okay?
speaker3: yes daddy.
speaker5: it hurt a bit, but i decided i wasn't gonna let it get me down. no way. i was gonna be the best son- no, the best person i could be.

speaker1: virginia beach police department, how may i direct your call? 
speaker1: something came for you.
speaker2: hey fellas.
speaker3: hey steve, steve, mornin', etc...

speaker1: have lots of dreams... 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: ...and if it wasn't for you i would have never found that last coffee filter and prayer-girls would have been ruined. so thank you for that. 
speaker2: amen.
speaker1: and thank you for steffie's allergy screen coming back all negative. i always knew it was in your plan for her to enjoy nuts. and finally i want to thank you for this man this man who works so hard to make us happy without even a thought for himself.
speaker1: this man who pursued me to the ends of the earth and promised me a life of eternal happiness. a promise he has kept oh lord. every day. amen.
speaker2: amen. steven tries to get up again. then- "i love you phillip morris" green pages 5-23-08 6.
speaker1: sometimes when i think of how happy i am, i just want to cry. like the time when you--
speaker2: okay let's wrap it up...
speaker1: and in your gracious name, i find thee and praise thee. amen.
speaker2: amen.

speaker1: i'm absolutely bushed. 
speaker2: me too.
speaker1: deb- you know how, as a cop, i have lots of access? you know- records and things?
speaker2: steven-
speaker1: now do you think it's, you know, unethical, to use that to find my mother? "i love you phillip morris" green pages 5-23-08 7.
speaker2: oh... that. yeah, um, well i don't know-
speaker1: i swear honey- getting around the system's so easy. no one would even know i did it.
speaker2: i know you want to find her steven, but you need to think about this.
speaker1: you're right, i shouldn't have done it.
speaker2: you did it!? oh my steven- what'd you find?
speaker1: i haven't looked. it's downstairs.
speaker2: really? well let's go!
speaker1: well hold on- let me finish.
speaker2: oh, right.
speaker1: there- that's got it.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: she's right here. she's been right here all this time.
speaker1: it's really her?
speaker2: yeah. no question.
speaker1: my goodness steven, that's wonderful. he reads on, his smile ever widening until-
speaker1: what? what is it? steven?

speaker1: is something wrong officer? 
speaker2: are you barbra bascombe?
speaker1: yes. is something wrong? is someone hurt?
speaker1: i don't think i know what you're talking about.
speaker2: elizabeth city? st jude's hospital?
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: you were young. i know that you made a mistake giving me away, but-
speaker1: listen-
speaker2: shhhhhh. mommy please- let me finish.
speaker2: we all make mistakes. what i came here to say is, i forgive you because none of us is perfect but now with a fresh start we can build --
speaker1: i have no idea what you're talking about, steven.
speaker2: no, it's okay, i know everything. but it's fine. just tell me why--
speaker1: go away!
speaker2: okay, okay. i understand. it's a lot at once. but i can come back. how's that? i can come back later, i'll bring us some coffee and we can talk about...

speaker1: i can't find my blue fish. 
speaker2: steven?
speaker3: in the laundry room.
speaker2: steven you haven't met our new neighbors down two and across the street- neil and sara.
speaker3: no i haven't. i hope you're planning on changing the paint. what do you call that color?
speaker4: oh we're changing it.
speaker3: good, good, good... good.
speaker4: so debbie tells me you used to be in the police force back in georgia.
speaker3: virginia beach.
speaker4: right. sorry...
speaker5: neil...
speaker3: yeah, kinda lost interest. got back into the family business.
speaker4: which is?
speaker3: produce. i work for sysco.
speaker4: that's a big outfit. they give you that corvette out there?
speaker3: yes sir-ee.
speaker2: great benefits, too.
speaker3: and the hours don't crush me either. i get plenty of home time.
speaker2: it's good to have him where i can keep an eye on him.
speaker3: among other things...
speaker5: ooooooh! watch out!

speaker1: i see a pony! what do you see!? 
speaker2: i see a diesel train!
speaker3: i see a whirlybird!
speaker4: i see a wiener.
speaker3: what?! what kind of wiener?
speaker4: a man's wiener.
speaker2: shut up! there's no wiener!
speaker4: uh huh!
speaker3: no there's not!
speaker1: oh i see it. there it is!
speaker4: told ya...
speaker5: anyway where was i? oh yeah--

speaker1: now just because i was around doesn't mean i didn't love debbie. i did. i loved her with all my heart... stephanie too. my family was all i had and they needed me. so i told myself it was just a little lie and it was better for everybody if it stayed that way. that's what i told myself. but life has a way of forcing these things into the light. 
speaker1: you might even call it an epiphany.

speaker1: i haven't lived my life. 
speaker2: try not to talk sir.
speaker1: you... no one is going to tell me what to do anymore. no more lies. i'm going to live my life. my way. be the real me. time for some good living. buy what i want, do what i want, who i want. my way.
speaker2: okay sir whatever you say.
speaker1: i'm gonna be a fag.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: a big fag...
speaker2: alright. let's move.

speaker1: it would be hard to break it to debbie, but i knew i'd find a way... 
speaker1: honey, i'm gay!
speaker1: to my surprise, we stayed friends. and i was finally free.

speaker1: but it didn't take me long to realize something that never occurred to me before. actually no one ever talks about this but... 
speaker1: ...being gay is really expensive. it is.

speaker1: restaurants, etc... 
speaker2: i mean it's not just sucking cock. it's wardrobe, it's hair, personal trainers, big labels, resorts, fine dining... it goes on and on and on. so i needed money. and for a guy without a college education, my options were limited.

speaker1: so i had no choice-- i became a con man! 
speaker1: of course that was easy for me, every closet case is a con anyways.

speaker1: your check. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: now it didn't happen all at once. it was sort of a gradual thing...

speaker1: it started with work. tomatoes. i used to buy low grade tomatoes in the field and sell them to clueless chain stores as higher grade. 
speaker2: these are gorgeous. u.s-1 right?
speaker1: finest in the land...
speaker1: it's called `field buying'. i could clear three thousand dollars in a good week doing that. but frankly it wasn't enough.
speaker3: cash or charge?
speaker1: charge...
speaker1: steven a russell, steven g russell, steven m russell, doctor steven m russell, doctor steven j russell... ah!
speaker3: thank you... ...mister evans. can i see some id?
speaker1: of course.

speaker1: oh wow... 
speaker2: what do you think? yes?
speaker1: well steven it's beautiful. it really is.
speaker2: you don't like it.
speaker1: no, no, no. i do.
speaker2: you don't like it.
speaker1: i'm menstruating. don't listen to me.
speaker2: tell me what's wrong with it. is it the gold?
speaker1: well...
speaker2: that's why i got you the stainless!
speaker1: steven!
speaker2: the gold one is for me, dipshit.
speaker2: merry christmas!

speaker1: merry christmas. 
speaker2: hi debbie!
speaker1: how's jimmy?
speaker2: good. did you get the gifts?
speaker1: well that's why i'm calling...
speaker2: you're welcome!
speaker1: i can't keep this.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: well... it's not christian.
speaker2: not christian? why's that?
speaker1: this is not what the lord wants.
speaker2: so you're saying you know what the lord wants?
speaker1: no. i would never say that. why? do you think this is what he wants?
speaker2: it's the leap of faith deb. it's the not knowing that's the answer. this gets traction with debbie.
speaker1: well i never thought about it that way...
speaker3: mommy look!
speaker1: steven!
speaker2: of course, jimmy and debbie had no idea what i was up to. for the time being, at least...

speaker1: morning sandy! 
speaker2: morning steven. you have visitors.
speaker1: okey-dokey!
speaker1: federal marshalls...

speaker1: but one thing was for sure-- i was not gonna let them put me away. i was a cop and i knew what jail was like. and there was no way i was going there. i had a plan. 
speaker1: yep. everything was gonna be just fine.

speaker1: hey... 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: why didn't you tell me?
speaker2: i can't go to prison, jimmy. i can't. i can't go to prison. i can't. i can't...
speaker1: okay-okay calm down. it's okay. i just want to tell them you're awake and we can take it from there.

speaker1: did you know steven was wanted? 
speaker2: not until just now.
speaker1: he likes to keep little secrets sometimes.
speaker2: like the fact that he was a big queer?
speaker1: yeah, like that.
speaker2: but suicide, my
speaker1: well he does tend to overreact.
speaker2: i feel like i don't even know him.
speaker1: well jimmy, that's the thing. i'm not really sure he knows who he is. he's searching, at least that's how i figure it. i'm just not sure he knows what it is he's looking for.
speaker3: he has several warrants out in texas.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i should have known... i should have said something.
speaker1: don't blame yourself jimmy... i did the same thing. there were always signs. i should have known he was gay when he started shaving his chest.
speaker2: that would be a warning sign...
speaker1: and all that peter allen music on his walkman.
speaker2: denial is a powerful thing. i don't feel so bad now.
speaker1: i just never thought. but now stealing?
speaker2: he's probably been doing it for years. i say to myself he did it just to buy me things but i don't think that's true.
speaker1: it's bigger than that. i'm sure.
speaker2: but why then?
speaker1: and why suicide? i mean- just like that?
speaker2: i know- he seemed so happy and--
speaker1: steven!!!

speaker1: steven! 
speaker1: wait steven. don't!
speaker1: steven i'm serious! you stop or you'll never see me again! i mean it!

speaker1: hi. welcome to prison. i'm steven. 
speaker1: oh don't worry, i'm not gonna hurt you. first time?
speaker1: i was so scared when i first got here. but you get used to it.

speaker1: law library. i pretty much live here. i don't really have anyone on the outside except my ex-wife- so i just hunker down here learning everything there is to know about the law. ask me anything. 
speaker1: see him. over there? him? anything you want from outside, he's the guy. candy, cigarettes, drugs, whatever. he's the guy. just keep in mind- it's gonna cost you a lot of money. or you could his your choice.

speaker1: three meals a day. not so bad. just make sure if you make enemies with someone, he doesn't work here. otherwise you'll wake up one morning blood and find out you've been eating ground glass in your cornbread for six weeks. 
speaker1: let me introduce you to the mail guy. his name's gary.

speaker1: ...letters, magazines, like that- it all goes through unmolested. but if grandma's sending you cookies, or or brownies or whatever-- you're gonna have to pay for it if you wanna get it. five bucks per item or you can my 
speaker2: your choice.

speaker1: well that's about it. you're gonna be fine. don't worry. and if you need anything you just let me know. alright? 
speaker2: so, uh, do i need to your dick?
speaker1: that'd be great.
speaker3: hi this is debbie and steffie. sorry we missed you. leave a message. bless!

speaker1: thanks. guess i need a few extra inches. 
speaker2: glad to help. how's the bird?
speaker1: huh? oh. him, yeah... he's at peace.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry.
speaker1: it was for the best. he was suffering.
speaker2: civil law? you know, i'm an attorney.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: you suing someone?
speaker1: i don't know what i'm doing. there's a guy i know- he's in the infirmary now. he's sick- he's real sick... aids. i thought maybe i could find a way to get him some help- i mean real help. not here. i don't know- maybe i could-- i don't even know what i'm looking for...
speaker2: does he have a lawyer?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: have him get in touch with the prisoner rights committee. they deal with this all the time- pro bono. i've got the number.
speaker1: well thank you, i--
speaker2: my name's steven russell.
speaker1: pleased to meet you steven russell, my name's phillip morris.
speaker2: i haven't seen you around phillip. i'm always in the yard...
speaker1: i don't go to the yard. you know what happens to blonde haired, blue eyed queers in the yard...
speaker2: it is kind of rough out there. you don't look like you belong here phillip.
speaker1: i don't.
speaker2: why are you here?
speaker1: i rented a car... and kept it too long.
speaker2: grand theft?
speaker1: theft of service.
speaker2: insurance fraud.
speaker1: no. just theft of service.
speaker2: no. me. insurance fraud.
speaker1: damn, we're both in a mess aren't we?
speaker2: don't seem fair, does it?
speaker1: no, it don't.
speaker2: you know, i keep finding that life's a little shittier than i thought it was gonna be.
speaker1: oh, listen to you, gloomy gus. i think you're gonna be just fine, steven russell.
speaker2: i guess i'm inclined to believe you.
speaker1: why's that?
speaker2: i met you today, didn't i?

speaker1: ...i made the mistake of writing her and saying i was lonely in here. and next thing you know, my ex-wife catches her putting the neighbor's puppy in a box to mail to me. 
speaker2: ohhhhh, she sounds so sweet...
speaker1: oh she's an angel.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: why'd i have to meet you today?
speaker1: something wrong?
speaker2: it's just- i'm being transferred to michael unit today.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: don't be sorry. it's just across the yard.
speaker2: well i don't go into that yard so it might as well be oklahoma. just figures with my luck. i was born friday the 13th...
speaker1: it's not gonna change a thing, phillip. in fact, friday the 13th's my lucky day. don't worry, this right here. this is destiny.
speaker2: but we only just met.
speaker1: listen, i've loved a lot. and i've been around, so i recognize the feeling.

speaker1: that one you and me are having right now- the one you're trying to forget exists because you're going away. but there's about 6000 volts shooting across this table here and you know you can't deny it. 
speaker2: don't you think you're coming on a little strong?
speaker1: i know you're trying to protect yourself, i get that. it's fine. give me a chance to prove you wrong. phillip is melting but tries to hide it.
speaker2: i'm sure i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: good...

speaker1: you phillip? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: already?
speaker3: phillip, hope your new place is nice. nice enough anyway. i hope the chocolate made it to you okay. check the t.p.
speaker3: i hope you try to make some new friends and not be too shy. i guess i should tell you a little bit about myself...

speaker1: anyway thanks for the chocolate, but i should tell you i'm diabetic so i probably shouldn't... but i did anyway. it's been so long since anyone's shown me any kindness and well, it means a lot. i just wish you were here... 
speaker1: ...write me back soon. phillip.

speaker1: hurry up would you? 
speaker2: i ain't no dhl, faggot. besides i ain't got nothing for you anyway...
speaker1: but it's been three days.
speaker2: you got a tracking number,
speaker1: no.
speaker2: then shut your ass.
speaker1: congratulations phillip, scared off another one.
speaker3: morris - you got a new roommate.
speaker1: oh my how the did you do this? steven slowly moves closer.
speaker4: i know a guy. i took care of it. i'm gonna take care of everything...
speaker1: enough romance, let's

speaker1: and for a while i was executive assistant to a broadway producer... 
speaker2: really? what's a broadway producer doing in atlanta?
speaker1: i didn't ask.
speaker2: what'd you do for him?
speaker1: i mainly just rode around town in his limo, drinking and sucking him off.
speaker1: now that i hear myself say it, i think he was just some rich chicken hawk. they get a giggle out of this.
speaker1: oh well, he was a nice guy. i only dated him for a little while anyway. then i dated this full-blooded apache who made me dress up like a baseball player.
speaker2: apache? what was his name?
speaker1: melvin.
speaker2: phillip- you amaze me.
speaker1: what? he was a nice guy too.
speaker2: that's what i'm saying- you only see the good.
speaker2: what the was that?

speaker1: that's the screecher next door. he does it all night. i never get any sleep. he drives me crazy. 
speaker2: you poor thing. how awful...

speaker1: i'm gonna cut out your tongue with your screeching all night. 
speaker2: what does he care- he ain't in our block...
speaker3: someone probably paid him.

speaker1: get up... 
speaker1: did you pay to have the screecher beat up?
speaker2: me?
speaker1: don't me. did you pay to have him beat up?
speaker2: well you said he bothered you.
speaker1: just answer me.
speaker2: yeah. yeah, i did.
speaker1: steven...
speaker1: this is the most romantic thing anyone's ever done for me.
speaker2: i just want you to be happy, baby.
speaker1: you are so amazing!!!

speaker1: cleavon- put this in. 
speaker2: no man- not now.
speaker1: it's important.
speaker2: how important?
speaker2: ten.
speaker1: fine. but you gotta play the whole thing.
speaker2: yeah, alright.
speaker1: promise?
speaker2: you- my word's my bond motherfucker.
speaker2: man- johnny mathis? white- nigger...

speaker1: c'mon... 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: c'mon. dance.
speaker2: no. no... i can't dance.
speaker1: yes you can.
speaker2: no i can't. i'm serious...
speaker1: honey, you're queer- it comes with the package.
speaker2: well not me.
speaker1: c'mon, i'll show you...
speaker1: hold me here... and here. okay watch...

speaker1: i said lights out. turn it off. 
speaker2: you pig.
speaker1: turn it off or we're coming in.
speaker2: well come on in. i got a that needs sucking.

speaker1: rise and shine! 
speaker1: russell! get up!
speaker1: grab your let's go!
speaker2: what's happening?
speaker1: you're transferred. nonney snitched you out about the screecher. you're going to ramsey two.
speaker3: ah
speaker2: wait!
speaker3: don't you touch him!
speaker2: steven-
speaker3: don't worry phillip- i'll-
speaker1: shut up and move.

speaker1: i wanna go in the yard. 
speaker2: you do?

speaker1: what the are you doing!? 
speaker2: i love you!
speaker1: i love you too!
speaker1: we'll be together soon! i promise!

speaker1: and once i did, i was determined to get us back together as soon as possible. 
speaker1: hi, how are you?
speaker2: i'm well. where you headed? the greyhound?
speaker1: nearest thrift store please.
speaker2: sure. you mind if i tell you the word of our lord, christ?

speaker1: hi there, my name's steven rousseau. i'm an attorney. my client is phillip morris. i called earlier. the guard checks his roster. 
speaker2: mmm hmmm. there you are. rousseau...
speaker1: i beg your pardon?

speaker1: you said you'd come right away, but 
speaker2: i got work to do honey, i'm getting you out of here early. i got a hearing tomorrow morning, i got motions to file.
speaker1: i love you so much.
speaker2: phillip, you are the sweetest, most gentle man i have ever met. and i know people have taken advantage of that. but i don't ever want you ever to lose that innocence. i want to build a life with you phillip. i want to protect you.
speaker1: get me out of here.

speaker1: the motion was filed, i presented to the da and got a letter from the judge- i do not understand what the hold up is. i'm not some paralegal- i am steven rousseau and i expect proper adjudication! 
speaker1: my boyfriend's getting out of prison next week!
speaker2: how nice...
speaker1: you want mayo with that?

speaker1: i have an early release order for phillip morris. the officer glances at the paperwork. 
speaker2: yep- morris- we got him right here waiting.
speaker2: and you are--?
speaker1: i'm his lawyer.
speaker3: you're incredible.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: phillllip! it's so good to see you... 
speaker2: oh my you look great. prison agreed with you. how do i get on that diet?
speaker3: oh you couldn't handle it- not unless we smuggled an espresso machine in a cake.
speaker2: throw in a sicilian barista and i'm there!
speaker3: this is steven. steven- blake and baylor.
speaker2: this is him?! this is your gay lawyer prison boyfriend?! pleased to meet you.
speaker1: much better than the guy who had you kidnapped. what was his name?
speaker3: long story.
speaker4: can i get you all a drink?

speaker1: we gotta get a bigger place. 
speaker2: steven i want you to meet my old neighbor- eudora mixon. she is just the sweetest.
speaker3: pleasure steven.
speaker1: eudora...
speaker2: eudora owns a little building in montrose and she's having a of time with the builder. he sounds like a real
speaker3: his plans were useless and he's trying to sue me to pay him! i need your expertise steven. phillip says maybe you can help.
speaker1: i could certainly try.
speaker3: can you still practice law, having been to prison?
speaker1: sure- why not?
speaker3: i just thought- oh what do i know? i'd just be glad to have someone i could trust. i'll pay your normal fee.
speaker1: it would be my pleasure. litigation is my speciality.

speaker1: mister russell? 
speaker2: it's a beautiful fixture.
speaker1: i know. it's your turn.
speaker2: oh... your honor, ms. mixon engaged mr. gage service in good faith and was given an inferior product. she is entitled to deem that work to be unacceptable according to the contract that mr. evans signed.
speaker3: the terms of that contract were ambiguous at best. the truth is, defendant engaged my client for three years without full payment.
speaker2: your honor i have, in my briefcase, fourteen other contracts, all on public record, in which mr. evans entered into litigation with past clients of his!
speaker3: is this true?
speaker4: no.
speaker3: you're making me look like an

speaker1: he is right mr. russell- what do you have to say? 
speaker2: i demand to be seen in chambers!!
speaker1: okaaaaaaaay...

speaker1: okay gentlemen, let's get this over with, the two for one at the crab boiler ends at five o'clock. 
speaker2: this seems to be cut and dried here, sir. i don't even know why we're back here. mister russell is treating this like an episode of matlock.
speaker3: i'll admit your honor- i'm a plain spoken man. i didn't go to princeton. i didn't go to yale. my education was modest. i went to a small school. i grew up on a small farm. but i passed the same bar exam as my colleague here and i am not going to let him push around this humble woman. this scores with the judge.
speaker1: point taken mister russell...
speaker1: ...but where are you going with this?
speaker3: i think it's obvious where i'm going with this sir.
speaker1: are you talking about marshall vs. chao?
speaker2: 
speaker3: your honor, that's exactly what i'm talking about.

speaker1: yes! i did great! can you believe how great i did!? 
speaker2: yes. you did very well, steven. thank you.
speaker1: i mean, i did great! really great! i'm so proud of myself! you want half my sandwich?!
speaker2: um...
speaker1: no! we're going out! i'm paying!!

speaker1: oh my it's amazing. 
speaker2: i thought you'd like it honey.
speaker1: can we afford this?
speaker2: you let me worry about the money sweetheart.
speaker1: okay, well i guess i better start packing boxes.
speaker2: not this weekend.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: i think we both need a vacation. key west?

speaker1: i've been meaning to ask you something. 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: that birthday cake you got me in the pen? where'd you get those candles?
speaker2: oh you know... just... people i knew.
speaker1: yeah, i know. but how?
speaker2: remember that guard? skinny guy? smoked a lot?
speaker1: lance? he couldn't been more than 98 pounds.
speaker2: yeah, that's him.
speaker1: oh he was such an
speaker2: actually- i was in the yard once. another guard asked him to pay him back five. he opened his wallet and i saw this picture of a little girl about steffie's age. so i brought it up to him once, just to get him talking. that's the thing about having kids, you know? gets people talking. shared experience. builds bridges. something i learned. anyway he tells me he's worried about her- mamma was gone. we talked awhile. you know, i just listened. that's all. i brought up the candles just one time but mostly just listened... and the next day, bedtime, there they were.

speaker1: how'd you know he'd do that? 
speaker2: i didn't. i just knew i wanted `em for you... and i found a way to do it. that's all.
speaker1: just listenin' huh?
speaker2: that's it...

speaker1: i'm gonna get a coke... you want a coke? 
speaker2: uh huh...
speaker2: aw, you don't love me...
speaker2: with phillip i felt strong. i felt invincible. i promised myself he would never want for anything ever again. that meant i needed a real job. something dependable. and- no more scams.

speaker1: sorry to keep you waiting steven. 
speaker1: i'm dan lindholm.
speaker2: were you a spaceman?
speaker1: yep. never got out there though. nasa's a real political place. never could figure out whose to kiss to get a mission. all in the past. barely even think about it now...
speaker2: a spaceman, huh? how do you up there?
speaker1: gasket. have a seat.
speaker1: with the popularity of hmo's in today's health care system, doctors need help managing their billing-- so they can focus on their patients. that's where usa medical management comes in. hundreds of millions of dollars pass through our system from the hmo's to the doctors. it's a critical business. a powerful business... so when i read your resume, i wasn't sure what to think. your level of education and your past experience would factor heavily into this decision and frankly...
speaker1: ...you were head and shoulders above the rest. i mean, i could hardly believe it. but when i called your references-- well they couldn't speak more highly of you.

speaker1: i could not speak more highly of steven russell, mr. lindholm . a real straight shooter. we were lucky to have him at prudential as long as we did. 
speaker2: brando's wet debut?
speaker1: on the waterfront.

speaker1: ...for example "he's in a meeting" sounds better than "he's away from his desk" at least i think so, but whatever you prefer. 
speaker2: that's fine... sure.
speaker1: i pulled all the claims for the last two years as well as the statements, transfers and confirmations from the bank. most of it's routine and i think you can get up to speed in a day or two. anything else i can do for you?
speaker2: uh.... cup of coffee?
speaker1: i'll do it today but i don't do that really.

speaker1: crossover from traditional markets shows declination and inverse diffusion seems commensurate with net-trade trending. hmo penetration still leads ppo, nmo and fmo as usual but attenuation is growing more prevalent in q4 as projected... as for q3, well q3 is what q3 always is: q2 with training wheels. 
speaker2: okay steven, your turn. i know you've only had the one quarter to play catch up but i tell you, we can't wait to get some insight here.
speaker3: sure. what about?
speaker2: mark's projections.
speaker3: mmm hm. sure.
speaker2: they seem kind of flat.
speaker3: oh. okay. ummm...
speaker3: well i did a lot of work here and uh... i think maybe... well i could just read it to you but uh... it might be better to just uh...
speaker3: well, i'll just show you. todd?
speaker3: if you look here at mark's projections again for q3, you'll see- well you'll see they're just that- projections. projections based on a model set by my predecessor. i decided to reject that model and do things a little differently. i want to show you my results. this is what we actually made in q3-- todd flips to the next card. the graphs grow exponentially. the group is intrigued.
speaker3: now let me tell you how i did it...

speaker1: the tux? where are you going? 
speaker2: it's just a work thing. were we supposed to--
speaker1: no- i just thought- it's fine. where you going?
speaker2: some stupid gala ball thing...
speaker1: gala? oh... sounds boring.
speaker2: yeah. i'll be home early. promise.

speaker1: you see that? 
speaker2: no... oh- is it...?
speaker1: yeah. probably deploying the arm right now. just a satellite deployment. nothing special... just touching the face of
speaker1: i want you to meet my wife.

speaker1: bev- ladies- i want you to meet steven russell, our cfo. 
speaker2: oh i heard about you.
speaker3: good things i hope.
speaker2: yes and no. don's bellyaching about how big your christmas bonus is gonna be because you're making him so much money.
speaker4: are you married steven?
speaker3: uh... engaged.
speaker5: well where is she, sweetheart?
speaker3: she works. travels a lot. it's killing her she couldn't be here.

speaker1: these are ready for dan ... 
speaker2: thanks steven. you doin' good?
speaker1: kind of. i just got back from my lawyer's office. i asked him, "what's your fee?" he says, "i charge $50 for three questions." so i ask, "don't you think that's a little expensive?" and he says, "yes it is... now what's your final question?" vera explodes with laughter.
speaker2: it's so true. lawyers!
speaker2: annie! come here, you gotta hear this!

speaker1: i don't care what your handicap is... 
speaker2: i couldn't agree with you more. i remember one time, i was at augusta...

speaker1: the woman says,"that's awful expensive, isn't it?" and the lawyer says, "yes and now you only got one question left!" 
speaker1: `cause he already asked the two!

speaker1: yeah that's a good one... 
speaker2: that's why there's so few shuttle missions. they're wasting all their money on bureaucracy. and probes... unmanned probes. like people care if there's life on mars. no mushrooms, i said.

speaker1: golf!? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're a homosexual.
speaker2: it's work.
speaker1: you know, you can tell them. they can't fire you for being gay.
speaker2: i know...
speaker1: i'm trying to be understanding here honey, but golf? why not just eat pussy?
speaker2: wish me luck.
speaker1: good luck!

speaker1: of a hazard ain't it steven? 
speaker2: oh yeah! how ya like that, sister!?

speaker1: get it?!! 
speaker1: there i am.

speaker1: anything else i can do for you? 
speaker2: uh.... cup of coffee?
speaker1: i'll do it today but i don't do that really.

speaker1: it occurred to me to set up an investment account where the held money would earn interest for the short time that the company had it. we're talking twenty two million at any given time here, so even short term the interest adds up pretty quickly. i'd be making the company millions virtually overnight. he leans back to think to himself. 
speaker1: ...and i of course would take a commission. say... fifty percent. the only problem with that was-- i wasn't the one signing the checks.

speaker1: so i ask, "don't you think that's a little expensive?" and the lawyer says, "yes it is, now what's your final question?" vera explodes with laughter. 
speaker2: it's so true. lawyers!
speaker2: annie! come here, you gotta hear this!
speaker3: steven, we got a problem. vera lost that stupid rubber stamp again. her office is a disaster and she's the o-ring if you know what i'm saying.
speaker1: oh... how long till we can get a new one?
speaker3: nope. time to overhaul the program. i got a computerized system already on order. no more room for pilot error. steven hangs his head, visibly disappointed.
speaker3: should be up and running in a couple months. i want you signing the checks until then.
speaker1: really?! great!
speaker3: you play golf?
speaker1: uhhh... yeah. sure.

speaker1: how big was this christmas bonus? 
speaker2: pretty big.
speaker1: in july?

speaker1: the sheriff is desperate and goes to a psychic. all the woman says is rabbit. rabbit-rabbit-rabbit, that's all. well he thinks `bullshit' and he's driving back home and what happens? he sees a rabbit crossing the street in front of him. so he pulls over and follows it into the woods and he finds the missing car. all wrecked and turned over and the girl's inside... still alive. eventually we find steven and phillip in the backyard on a large double chaise lounge. their sleeping min-pins are between them. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i swear. it's in the ricky martin people in the bathroom. steven smiles and cuddles up.
speaker1: yeah... they can find out all sorts of stuff, those people.
speaker2: mmm hmm...
speaker1: they can find out anything about anyone... anything. they could even find out something about you...
speaker2: phillip... what is it?
speaker1: it's just-- is something going on?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: because if there is, stop now.
speaker2: there isn't. there's nothing.
speaker1: i don't care about the money, the house, jet-skis- all i want is you. i just want us to be together.
speaker2: we're always going to be together. and there is nothing going on. i promise. i wouldn't lie to you, baby.

speaker1: nice car. 
speaker2: thanks, larry.
speaker1: which one is it?
speaker2: sl. that the c you're driving?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: good car.
speaker1: mmm hm.
speaker2: good value.

speaker1: hello, you've reached the automatic teller at texas commerce bank. please enter your personal account number followed by the pound sign. 
speaker1: thank you. your account balance is eight hundred-thirty seven thousand five hundred and two dollars and twelve cents. to repeat this-

speaker1: hey debbie. 
speaker2: steven. how are you?
speaker1: good. how's steffie doing?
speaker2: good. real good. she sure is your daughter...
speaker1: she's interested in boys already?
speaker2: ha-ha. how's phillip?
speaker1: he's good. he says hi, but listen- i just wanted to call and let you know i'm switching all my phone numbers. i'll let you know when we get a new one.
speaker2: oh steven, are you on the lam again?
speaker1: deb, you always knew me best.
speaker2: steven you really should stop all this, you are such a good man and i know that has a plan for you.
speaker1: well, maybe this is his plan.
speaker2: now don't start. a call-waiting tone is heard.
speaker1: anyway debbie- that's my boss calling. i love you both and i'll call you soon. steven clicks over to the other line.
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: steven? where are you? 
speaker2: the gulf freeway. where are you?
speaker1: at the office. you coming back anytime soon?
speaker2: is something wrong?
speaker1: no, we just want to see you steven. we miss you is what it is.
speaker2: oh, that's nice dan. but i don't think i'm coming back in. i think we both know why.
speaker1: you sure about that steven?
speaker2: bye-bye dan.

speaker1: people keep calling, what's going on? 
speaker2: nothing. thought we'd take a little vacation. key west. let's pack. quick! okay i'll pack for you!
speaker1: i knew it- you did do something. you lied to me! you looked me right in the eye and lied!
speaker2: now don't get angry, it's gonna be fun, i swear.
speaker1: are you going back to jail? steven, you promised we'd always be together!
speaker2: of course we are! we're never gonna be apart. never.
speaker1: you lying son of a you took advantage of me! just like all the rest!

speaker1: we'll get a place. do some fishing. i can work on my key lime pie recipe... 
speaker1: ...i might even grow a beard and enter the papa hemingway contest!
speaker1: phillip? honey?

speaker1: what? 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i love you jimmy.
speaker1: it's only been a month, steven.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: don't fall for me steven.
speaker2: why the not?
speaker1: you know well why.
speaker2: i don't give a about that.

speaker1: i'm sick. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: no really sick. you haven't seen me in a year. you don't know. i just came back from the doctor. my t-cells are... he begins to cry.
speaker1: why did you have to go to jail? how could you do this to me?
speaker2: i know, i'm sorry...
speaker1: i don't want to die alone.
speaker2: you're not gonna die alone.
speaker1: yes i am. who knows how long i have.
speaker2: you're not gonna die alone, okay? just believe me.
speaker1: you don't know that.
speaker2: yes i do. i promise.

speaker1: did you get `em? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what the hell's this?
speaker2: it's all i could get.
speaker1: 

speaker1: thanks mom. 
speaker2: i'll be in the other room.
speaker3: come on. you need to drink something.
speaker1: i want you to have this because i'm gonna be leaving soon...
speaker3: well that's not okay with me baby. you can't leave. i need you around here.
speaker1: you're sweet... but no, i'm not.
speaker3: shhhh...
speaker1: i'm not. i've seen him. you haven't met him yet, but you will...
speaker1: you're gonna be so happy. and i know you don't think so, but you deserve to be happy...
speaker3: you're not thinking clearly baby.
speaker1: yes i am... and you have to promise me... when you find him, you're gonna treat him right... okay?
speaker3: okay, okay. now drink some water.
speaker1: treat him right.

speaker1: hi helen it's me. is-- 
speaker1: okay... mmm hmm...

speaker1: this what you wanted? 
speaker2: oh thanks.
speaker1: diabetes huh?
speaker2: yeah... the cop gets in and they drive off.

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker1: 
speaker2: ahh! he himself! get us to the hospital!

speaker1:  
speaker2: he's up.

speaker1: take a seat. 
speaker2: what'd they get you for?
speaker3: grand theft. you?
speaker2: b and e.
speaker3: how about you?

speaker1: c'mon phillip, pick up, it's me. i'm sorry. c'mon. 
speaker2: how long you in for?
speaker1: not long. can you hit me in the face with this?

speaker1: that's a pretty big gash. just stay still... 
speaker2: it sure hurts...

speaker1: set bail at 900,000 dollars. 
speaker2: your honor...
speaker3: nine hundred thousand!? it's a white collar charge.
speaker2: your honor-
speaker1: mister russell is a flight risk. the bond is set. nine hundred thousand.
speaker3: this is set a reduction hearing.
speaker2: your honor we'd like to set a reduction hearing.
speaker1: that's your right, but i strongly advise you don't.

speaker1: next week. 
speaker2: we'd like next week if that's okay.
speaker1: on the thirteenth.
speaker2: oh the thirteenth if possible.
speaker3: fine. friday the thirteenth. now go away.

speaker1: ma'am?! the woman turns back, annoyed. 
speaker1: dropped something.

speaker1: this is julie. steven puts on his best southern belle voice. 
speaker2: hi, i have judge charles hearn for the clerk's office.
speaker1: alright.
speaker2: i'll put him through.
speaker2: this the clerk's office?
speaker1: it is.
speaker2: charles hearn- i got a bail adjustment coming through, sent it over today.
speaker1: sure thing. what's the name?
speaker2: russell. steven jay.
speaker1: got it right here.
speaker2: good, i need that to go through right away. because if it don't, i'm gonna have to chug about a quart of tidee bowl on account of all the i'll be eating. know what i mean?
speaker1: you got it judge.
speaker2: and say- julie? can you save me a dime and connect me to a good bail bondsman?
speaker3: sure thing.

speaker1: go away steven! 
speaker1: you think i didn't know you were coming!?
speaker2: phillip-
speaker1: get the out of here! i'm done with you!
speaker2: don't say that.
speaker1: they probably have a psychic after you right now! did you see any bunnies!?
speaker2: honey, i know you're upset- but we love each other.
speaker1: you opened a bank account for doctor phillip morris! now they think i'm in on everything! i'm facing real time! you know i can't go back to prison.
speaker2: i'm sorry about that- they weren't supposed to find that. it was for your own good. so we could be together.
speaker1: off! i'm in enough trouble.
speaker2: c'mon phillip, just trust me-
speaker1: you you liar! do you realize how bad you've me over!! you made me an accomplice! you liar! i don't want to see you. go away! i never want to see you again!
speaker2: phillip don't say that.
speaker2: well what am i supposed to do?
speaker1: you're the lawyer, you figure it out.
speaker1: oh my
speaker1: you're not even a lawyer?! you liar!
speaker2: well...
speaker1: what the hell's going on?! who the are you!?
speaker2: open the door phillip.
speaker1: no.
speaker3: down on the ground faggots!!

speaker1: phillip? 
speaker2: don't.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker2: from the moment we met, you've done nothing but lie. our whole relationship... just lies. i'm such an you took advantage of me- just like all the rest of them. you were supposed to protect me- but you've done nothing but make a fool of me. and you expect me to love you? how can i love you? i don't even know who you are. and you know what's sad? i don't even think you know who you are. so how am i supposed to love something that don't even exist? you tell me. eventually a policeman stands before phillip.
speaker3: morris. you're up.
speaker2: i will never forgive you steven. never.

speaker1: i'm sorry to have to tell you this steven, your t-cell counts indicate that, uh... well... you have aids. 
speaker2: how long do i have?

speaker1: where's the crash cart!? 
speaker2: so here we are, where you first met me...

speaker1: got a minute? 
speaker2: samuel. you want some crackers?
speaker1: no... thanks. look- i just talked to my friend- he's a nurse at the infirmary. i don't know if you know this or not but uh...

speaker1: let me in! just let me in! 
speaker2: he's not here!
speaker1: i need to see him!
speaker2: i told you he's not here! you need to calm down.
speaker1: just tell me where he is. what happened?
speaker2: he slipped into a coma for a few days. he's conscious now, but he's very sick. we had him transferred to a private care facility. there was nothing we could do for him here. it's just a matter of time now.

speaker1: steven? 
speaker1: steven? someone wants to talk to you. he keeps calling. he's driving us crazy.
speaker2: i didn't want you to find out...
speaker3: steven. oh why didn't you write me? i don't know how this happened, they say i'm fine. oh who did this? it doesn't matter. i had to talk to you steven. i am still angry with you, but i need you to know something. even if sometimes i don't know who you are, i love you. i never stopped loving you. you and me are just fools for love i guess- written in the stars or some like that. but it was never better, never more real than with you steven. i realize now that all that crazy you did- in your up way- it was always for me. always for us. you are the most amazing man steven. it takes my breath away. and even though i can't be with you now, i will always be yours... forever.
speaker3: now if you have to go, go. it's okay. i'm right there. okay? i'm right there.

speaker1: phillip...? 
speaker1: uh- my friend in the infirmary... uh, they got a call from that long term care place and uh, well a few days ago steven- ...i'm so sorry phillip.
speaker2: morris. come with me.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker2: your lawyer's here.
speaker3: did i forget to mention i didn't die? yeah, i didn't die. faked the whole thing.

speaker1: shut the up, i'm trying to sleep. 
speaker2: you. i got a broken heart here.
speaker3: well then do something about it mother fucker- `stead of crying like whitney houston looking for her crack pipe.
speaker2: yeah i know...
speaker3: right. love creates miracles motherfucker. ain't you ever read the bible? so get off your and go forth unto the canaanites you
speaker2: when you're right you're right cleavon... long pause.
speaker3: wanna me off?
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker3: well sweet dreams then.
speaker2: lying there in all my misery, i had a moment of clarity. it became clear to me- i had to get to phillip. no matter what.

speaker1: hey lawrence- you still work in the infirmary? 
speaker2: mmm hmm...
speaker1: you like coffee?

speaker1: ...you have aids. 
speaker2: how long do i have? and off the doctor's grave face--

speaker1: where's the crash cart!? 
speaker2: but the hardest part by far is getting transferred to a private care facility. it's standard procedure for late stage patients, but convincing them i was about to die would involve taking a few risks.

speaker1: this is doctor rios from the hamblin center, houston. i'm looking for aids patients for a study we're... 
speaker1: and once i got settled in, i just called the department of corrections and convinced them i was a state-sponsored doctor looking for late stage aids patients for an experimental treatment. as luck would have it, they had one patient that was eligible...
speaker1: oh you do? steven russell? could you spell that?

speaker1: and for all that time- all those doctors, all those nurses and all those facilities... not one of them ever thought to give me an aids test... the door slams and off he drives. 
speaker1: texas...
speaker1: i had a special request when i ordered the cab. did they tell you?
speaker2: yeah- right here.
speaker1: thank
speaker1: a week later, the hospice was to get a call from doctor rios, telling them steven russell had died undergoing treatment. and after all that hard work dying? where's the first place i go?

speaker1: funny, huh? 
speaker2: you're such a fucker!
speaker1: i know- i'm sorry- you weren't supposed to find out.
speaker2: well i did!
speaker1: i couldn't take a chance telling you. you know that. i couldn't. but phillip, i only did it so i could get here to you. just to talk to you. and here i am.
speaker2: you're so skinny.
speaker1: i'm fine. just hungry.
speaker2: steven i don't-
speaker1: wait. listen. i just came here to tell you one thing and that's it. you don't have to take me back, i just want to say one thing.
speaker1: i know you thought we were nothing but a lie- but underneath all those lies there was always something that was real. i thought about what you said to me. you said you don't know who i am. but i have to tell you- i know now. i know who i am. i mean- i'm not a lawyer, i'm not a cfo, i'm not a cop. i'm not even an escape artist. those steven russells are dead. and now, all that's left is the man that loves you. that's all. nothing else. i'm just the man that loves you. and if you can see that... believe it... then i promise i'll never be anything else ever again. a long, long silence. phillip looks to him.
speaker2: how do i know you're not bullshitting me again?
speaker1: you don't.

