speaker1: you lose... 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: i mean get out.
speaker2: you're a pig, you know that? how can you be like that?
speaker1: leave without saying another word.

speaker1: pardon monsieur... 
speaker1: merci.
speaker1: one thousand one... one thousand two... one thousand three...

speaker1: du foltiere, monsieur, intelligence liaison officer. dst. my understanding is that you are the deputy chief of station, cia, paris, and that you witnessed by coincidence this attack. 
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: and you have told my subordinate that you recognized the terrorist as carlos?
speaker2: that's not what i told him. i said he recognized me. afterwards i realized who he was. by then it was too late.
speaker1: ah yes... the deputy chief of station did not recognize him... but he recognized you.
speaker2: i wasn't the one wearing the disguise.
speaker1: yes of course... but then how are you sure it was him?
speaker2: how often do you see someone holding a live grenade listening to the fuse? besides, the arrogant son of a smiled at me.
speaker3: i shot the sheriff... but i did not shoot the deputy...

speaker1: pardon me. is the conference still in progress? 
speaker2: yes, but sir...

speaker1: ...twenty million dollars ransom. 
speaker2: who's asking for it?
speaker1: "the arm of the arab revolution." alias of the month time. could be anybody. the point is... their leader claims to be carlos...
speaker2: he does, does he?
speaker1: he wants to make sure everyone knows it's him. he wants the credit and the austrians want a positive id. that's when your name came up.
speaker2: who brought my name up?
speaker1: the guy who says he's carlos. the austrians want you there to identify him.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: at the airport. tomorrow. when they provide the plane to fly him and the hostages to libya. carlos evidently feels very comfortable in libya.
speaker2: they got him here in their own backyard and they're gonna let him walk away?!
speaker1: they've got no choice, jack.
speaker2: let 'em handle it like the israelis would.
speaker1: they're not the israelis jack. it's not their fight.
speaker2: then let me take him out! they want me to meet him at the airport. i can get close enough to get a clear shot at him. we can end this now.
speaker1: jack! he's got seventy hostages.
speaker2: the hostages!
speaker2: harold, we can handle it with a minimum loss of life.
speaker1: we will handle it with no loss of life. those aren't just any hostages. they are the oil ministers of the richest countries in the world, and that twenty million bucks they're gonna have to pay isn't gonna break 'em you know. it's nothing to them. they just want to pay it and... it's not our fight.
speaker2: what do you think carlos is gonna do with that money? put it in mutual funds? he'll use it to hit us. let me assemble a team and we can...
speaker1: jack goddamnit, there isn't any team to assemble! you're a dinosaur. we're out of the assassination business. all of us! you got a personal hard on against this guy because he made you look like an and now he's gonna rub your nose in it. i can appreciate your feelings, but it's not going down on our soil. it is not with our nationals and it is not our fight! now i got my orders and you just got yours.

speaker1: minister of the interior, i presume...? 
speaker1: i'm sorry this had to happen in austria. we have no quarrel with your government.
speaker1: pardon monsieur...
speaker1: we were never really properly introduced mister shaw. my name is carlos.
speaker2: eat and die slow.
speaker3: jack, no!
speaker3: you don't want your picture taken shaking his hand.

speaker1: how do you feel? 
speaker2: i do not speak english. yo soy cubano... de cuba... castro... su amigos... amigos... entiende?
speaker1: you spoke english well enough to your contact... the street vendor... so please let's not play games. we're both professionals, carlos.
speaker2: my name... ramirez... no carlos.
speaker1: yes, i know what your name is... illich ramirez...
speaker2: no illich.
speaker1: alias carlos sanchez, alias carlos martinez, alias the jackal.
speaker1: listen to me you piece of i'm trying very hard to be professional about this but you are in israeli hands now... so don't play games with me... entiende hombre?
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: you... you're telling me you're israelis... not arabs? i'm in some kind of an israeli prison... is that what you're telling me?
speaker1: amazing how much your english has improved in just a few seconds...
speaker2: look, obviously there has been some kind of mistake. i don't know who you think i am, but i am a lieutenant commander in the united states navy, okay? i am lieutenant commander annibal ramirez of the u.s.s. yorktown, sixth fleet, docked in haifa. i am not carlos or sanchez or illich or the jackal or whoever you think you just caught. if you call the u.s. embassy and ask for the sixth fleet liaison officer, he'll confirm everything i've said.
speaker1: remarkable... remarkable performance... the chutzpa of it is unbelievable... my hat is off to you carlos.
speaker3: your hat's off?! i'll tear your head off! you get on the horn and you call the u.s. embassy and you call the sixth fleet liaison office and then you go out and find yourself a good lawyer and i'll tell you somethin' jack, i'm gonna sue your so bad that your great great grandchildren will still be shovelin' to pay off the debt!
speaker1: carlos... give me a break, huh? if you were an american officer you would have... id papers, dog tags.
speaker3: i ditched 'em in an alley just before you guys got me. go back there you'll find 'em.
speaker1: you ditched them.
speaker3: per instructions... an american officer on shore leave in the middle east must travel in mufti, civilian clothes. a bunch of arabs start chasing me... could be terrorism... could be kidnapping... instructions are to ditch our tags, our id or anything else that could identify us. that's why i spoke spanish, that's why i said i was a cuban, not an american. and you broke my ribs here i'm gonna sue you, i'm gonna sue your government... i'm gonna sue every jew i can get my hands on you, understand me?!

speaker1: sir? 
speaker2: yoni... i want you to go back to the old city... where we caught... carlos... i want you to be very inconspicuous. take a half dozen men... you comb every alleyway there... every garbage can... everything you can find... for what looks like a u.s. military id if there is such a thing there.
speaker1: what's the problem?
speaker2: who said there was a problem? there's no problem. i just asked you to do something and you're going to do it. so there's no problem.

speaker1: i love it! those cocky israeli thought they hit the jackpot. got the jackal right in their own backyard... 
speaker2: state department's goin' apeshit. and the navy... admiral trost was so he was ready to shell the port of haifa.
speaker3: you're not gettin' it are ya?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: these weren't some yokels... this was the israeli general security service... the mossad. the best in the business. they have the most complete dossier there is on carlos, the latest pictures of him... everything. i mean what's that tell you?
speaker1: that they really ate it this time.
speaker3: scott... doesn't it hurt to walk around like that with your head up your ass... i mean isn't it painful?

speaker1: i thought you weren't coming back till tomorrow... 
speaker2: i wanted to be here for his game. look how beautiful she is!
speaker2: just like her mother.
speaker1: what happened to your eye?
speaker2: nothing. just fell. it doesn't matter. i'm home.

speaker1: joey watch yolanda... okay? 
speaker2: jesus...
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: lieutenant commander ramirez my name is jack shaw... i'm with the government... i'd like to talk to you about what happened in israel.

speaker1: mrs. meir is dead, lieutenant commander. 
speaker2: then you might want to have them dig her up because i intend to sue her.
speaker1: commander ramirez when i said i was from the government, perhaps i should have been more specific. i'm from the cia.
speaker1: does the man in that picture look familiar?
speaker3: poppi...
speaker2: that's not me... i mean i know it looks like me... but...
speaker1: i know it's not you.
speaker2: it's... this carlos guy.
speaker4: poppi, you don't need to watch the fire, come climb with me.
speaker2: get out of that tree, joey. your mother sees that and i'm dead.
speaker1: this is the only recent shot we have of him... telescopic lens from half a mile away taken by the israelis. can you blame 'em for what happened? the only difference is the eyes.
speaker2: okay i get it now, you're here to talk me out of my lawsuit. but see i identified myself but they kept me in that cell for two more days chained to that wall after i told 'em who i was so...
speaker1: lieutenant commander, i am not here about your lawsuit. carlos is the single most vicious terrorist in the world. he's personally carried out or masterminded the worst terrorist attacks in modern history. men, women, children. children like yours... blown to bits or slaughtered in cold blood. annibal... why did you join the navy?
speaker2: to serve my country.
speaker1: to serve your country... to protect her from her enemies. well carlos is one of her enemies now. and he'll probably become a bigger one... terrorism... unfortunately is a growth industry.
speaker2: why are you telling me all this?
speaker1: lieutenant commander, the governments of most countries in the free world have been after carlos for ten years and we have nothing to show for it. there is exactly one person in the world who can help us get carlos. and that person is you.
speaker2: what do you mean... to get him?
speaker1: all i can tell you is it may take as much as six months to a year of preparation. it will involve a high degree of risk. that much said, you may never as much as lay eyes on him yourself. but if we succeed carlos won't be a threat to anyone anymore. now i know you're going to need some time to think about it so...
speaker2: no i don't need any time. the answer's no.
speaker1: annibal...
speaker2: lieutenant commander... i am a naval officer... that's what i was trained for... that's what i'm good at... see you came to the wrong address. you want james bond. he lives in london and he's got an aston martin. you can't miss him.

speaker1: admiral crawford this is commander and mrs. ward scowcroft. 
speaker2: i know your family well, commander, i was with your father at the academy. i expect great things from you ward... great things.
speaker3: i won't let you down sir.
speaker1: admiral crawford this is lieutenant commander and mrs. annibal ramirez.
speaker2: annabelle?!
speaker4: it's annibal sir.
speaker2: yes... of course... well ... i'm glad to see we're getting some mexican american officers in the ranks. i'm an l.a. boy myself so i have a real soft spot for authentic mexican food... my stomach doesn't always go along with it but...
speaker5: we'd love to have you over to dinner admiral but the cuisine would be cuban not mexican. i think your stomach would find it more agreeable... not to mention your taste buds.
speaker2: you're cuban americans... oh i'm sorry... you grow up in l.a. and you hear ramirez and... anyway it was a pleasure meeting you.
speaker6: we do keep bumping into each other don't we. how do you do, mrs. ramirez? i was over at your lovely home the other day but i felt cheated because i had to leave before i had the pleasure of meeting you.
speaker5: the pleasure is mine...
speaker6: para servirle, yo soy encantado de conocerte.
speaker5: encantada senor...
speaker6: shaw... jack shaw.
speaker5: senor shaw. mucho gusto.
speaker4: my wife speaks english mister shaw... so do i.
speaker6: perdonname, i didn't think you'd be embarrassed to speak spanish in front of the admiral. a sus ordenes.
speaker4: i'll have a club soda and... uhh... a glass of white wine please...
speaker6: let me guess the white wine is for your wife right? cause you're afraid to drink anything stronger than club soda around the brass. how do you stand this annibal? i mean they're all so constipated.
speaker4: my wife is waiting for her wine... if you'll excuse me. jack stands in front of him blocking his way.
speaker6: oh there's a fiery retort.
speaker4: how about you.
speaker6: i'd believe it if you said it a little louder...
speaker6: look at these guys. you don't belong with them. you belong with me. what did darth vader say to luke? come over to the dark side? you have no idea of the power we have.
speaker4: hey... i told you i didn't want anything to do with you.
speaker6: how's it going to look in your jacket? your country came to you requesting help and you turned it down. not exactly promotion material, know what i mean? these people don't want you in their club, annibal. i do.
speaker4: the answer is no. that's the end of it.

speaker1: oh jesus... what do you want? 
speaker2: revealing it is jack who is at the door.
speaker3: i want you to come with me.
speaker1: well then get set for disappointment.
speaker3: okay. then you are ordered to come with me.
speaker1: you can't order me to do
speaker3: it's for you.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: put it on.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: because i just told you to. you need a phone call for that, too?
speaker2: the boy was flown here from germany. his parents are u.s. military personnel. navy family. a bomb was planted in a grocery store that was frequented mainly by u.s. military dependents. they believe it was carlos or one of the cells he runs. how old is your kid? this last is asked almost as an afterthought.
speaker1: he's six.
speaker2: hmmph... so is this kid.

speaker1: hello doctor shaw. is this... is this the specialist you told us about? 
speaker2: doctor ramirez, lieutenant and mrs. newcomb... the parents of the child who was wounded in the terrorist attack.
speaker1: you're the one who's going to do the surgery.
speaker2: he's going to help out.
speaker1: they told us you were the best person in the world to do this.
speaker2: he's the only one.
speaker2: here's the boy's chart, doctor. as you can see, one kidney was destroyed by the shrapnel. there's a large perforation in the left lung, the spleen, the large intestine, the stomach lining were all torn. there are over a hundred individual shrapnel fragments. it was obviously designed by carlos to maim, not to kill.

speaker1: what kind of a sadistic son of a are you? you use those poor people... you use anything to get what you want. 
speaker2: to get what i want?
speaker2: these are pictures of just some of carlos' victims. most of them are children. we haven't had time to get that kid's picture in yet. up until i heard about you, all we could do about carlos was take pictures of his victims. i wasn't lying to those people. you are the only one who can do anything about carlos. i'm not the bad guy, annibal. carlos is. i'm just trying to make you see the choices.
speaker2: who are you angry at? me for bringing you down here or carlos for blowing up that kid? which of us deserves your anger?

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i was just reading some... manuals...
speaker1: read 'em on the navy's time... this is my time...

speaker1: you'll see... it'll go by fast. 
speaker2: not fast enough.
speaker1: you take care of mommy, okay?
speaker3: but why do you have to go?
speaker1: well they're finally giving me my chance to go into subs... that's what i've always wanted you know...
speaker3: new color subs...
speaker1: nuclear...
speaker3: is there going to be a war, poppi?
speaker1: not if i can help it.
speaker3: then why do you need to go away?
speaker1: because sometimes countries need soldiers and sailors to be on guard so there won't be a war... so all the little children like you and baby yolanda will be safe.
speaker3: why can't somebody else's daddy go on the sub and you could stay here and go to my games?
speaker1: because i'm the one they asked and i'm the one who knows how to do the job.

speaker1: this is an ad hoc operation set up specifically for your mission. when that's over, not even a trace of it will remain. you don't need to know anyone's name. and from now on, your name is miguel... security. 
speaker2: so your name really isn't jack shaw?
speaker1: of course it is.

speaker1: your mother is irish... irish american. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: something wrong, miguel?
speaker2: ...no... not really.
speaker1: your father was in a cuban prison if i'm correct.
speaker1: your mother used to take you to visit him there, didn't she?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: i'm sure that's a disturbing memory.
speaker2: you didn't set this up in a prison because it was the first piece of real estate you were shown, did you, sir?
speaker1: let's just say everything has its purpose. and miguel... no one is to know anything about you other than that you're our student. so don't call me sir, because it's like wearing a sign on your forehead that you're military. from here on out forget the navy.
speaker2: yes sir... gotcha...

speaker1: carlos has two main safe houses. one in libya, one in east germany. we have satellites that pass over each one three times a day. unfortunately, the russians know exactly when our satellites are in position so we have to assume that carlos knows as well. 
speaker1: there's one person i want you to meet, though i think the two of you have already been introduced.
speaker2: hello miguel... my name is amos.
speaker3: oh yeah... i didn't recognize you without my foot chained to the floor.
speaker2: i hope there are no hard feelings.
speaker3: there are a lot of hard feelings. and i'm still gonna sue you when this is over.
speaker1: miguel, this is a combined israeli- american operation. amos here knows carlos better than anyone in the free world. he was the one who took that picture of carlos in libya.
speaker3: if you could get a picture of him why didn't you just kill him?
speaker2: don't let all this equipment fool you. carlos still has the home court advantage. he has the best protection in the world... three layers at least at all times. next and maybe most important... carlos himself. the french dst came to arrest him once. he was at his apartment, drunk, playing his guitar. he actually had them convinced it was all a mistake. then he went into his bathroom, took a shave mind you so he would look his best for the interrogation and when he came out managed to shoot each of them through the forehead. then he got the informer who had betrayed him, put him down on his knees and killed him... think of it. he took a shave and didn't even nick himself once.
speaker2: finally, there are political realities. whoever hits carlos has to realize that he'll unleash against himself a fanatical wave of terrorist activity in retribution.
speaker1: that by the way, is the last question you're going to ask. from now on you'll get information when and how we want you to get it. not before. you don't ask questions, you just do what you're told.

speaker1: this is going to be unlike any learning experience you've ever had before. for one thing, we're going to push to all your limits. fatigue, frustration and fear. we're going to make you more terrified than you've ever been in your life just to see how you handle the fear. any other learning experience you get things ninety- nine point nine nine nine percent right you get an "a." here if you get things ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent right... you get... 
speaker2: dead! and i'll tell you the truth. i honestly in my heart of hearts don't care whether you live or die. don't take that personal. i don't care whether i live or die. i do care about getting carlos. that's all i care about.
speaker3: but nothing personal, right?
speaker1: i'm not as cold-blooded as my american friend... it would bother me very much if you were dead... so we will teach you to stay alive... but no questions... just do. otherwise...
speaker3: when do we start?
speaker2: you already have. what were the names on the last three tombstones you passed on your right?
speaker3: i... i don't know, i wasn't looking. i wasn't paying attention.
speaker2: that's what will get you killed. carlos is always looking... always paying attention. always.
speaker1: because carlos is the master of the techniques of survival which we will teach you and because he is an efficient killer for whoever employs him, then for him there are simply no rules. unlike you miguel, you're a rule follower, aren't you?
speaker1: carlos is the opposite of that and that's what's so seductive, you know? he can kill whomever he chooses... ravish whoever he chooses... take whatever he chooses. do... whatever he chooses. it is to be in many ways a superman, not bound by the mores or morals of humanity.
speaker2: and if you learn what we can teach you, you'll be one, too. if not, you'll be dead.

speaker1: good morning. how's the porridge, you like it? 
speaker2: 'morning. it's not bad.
speaker1: good... finish everything in the pot.
speaker2: there's got to be like... eight helpings in there maybe...
speaker1: no questions... just do.

speaker1: name and place of birth! 
speaker2: illich ramirez. caracas, venezuela.
speaker1: your father?
speaker2: doctor jose altagracia ramirez... do you have to smoke that cigar?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: carlos' father abandoned him and his mother because he wanted to be a playboy. your father abandoned you in effect, when he was sent to prison. either way, it's a lonely child missing his father. i want you to take what you know of your real father and superimpose it onto this the image of carlos' father, so when you talk of one you are talking of the other with the same emotion... the same love, the same resentment... the same sadness, the same anger.

speaker1: you need to not only remember the names on every tombstone, but where they are so when i call out a name, you whirl and shoot. 
speaker2: it's kind of cold. you think i might be able to borrow a warmer jacket from someone?
speaker1: brisson! we don't want you to be comfortable. that's just what will get you killed.
speaker1: dupres! paquet!

speaker1: top shelf... some milk, some juice, maybe some cottage cheese, a couple bottles of beer, some tomatoes... i don't know... 
speaker2: what kind of milk, how many cartons, open or closed, what kind of juice, how full was the bottle, was it cottage cheese or cream cheese, how many bottles of beer, how many tomatoes? this is life and death!
speaker2: look here... ten seconds, how many cups, saucers, plates, look this time!

speaker1: here's the thing about carlos. he doesn't fit any mold. his father is an extraordinarily wealthy who's a marxist at the same time... dufraisne! 
speaker1: the guy's such a fanatic he names his three sons after lenin. and i don't mean john. the same thing is true for carlos. he's a guerilla fighter who loves champagne and caviar... lapierre!
speaker1: he doesn't want to be che guevara, he wants to be the james bond of the people's liberation front. it's not so much radical chic as an excuse for sadism. paquet!

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: it's a transmitter.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: target practice. you're the target.
speaker2: if you shoot out the receivers, they'll stop. there are ten rounds in this clip. the first two are live, the next three dummy, then three live, two dummy.
speaker2: three times dead.

speaker1: you finish all your porridge? 
speaker2: yeah... yeah... i finished all my porridge.
speaker1: good now you can have some more.
speaker2: enough of this porridge man, hi jo deputa! it man... i ain't eatin' no more of this and i ain't wearin' this shirt anymore either!
speaker1: why miguel amigo, whatever is the matter?
speaker2: i'll tell you what the matter is man... i been here twelve mother weeks an' all i've had to eat the whole time is this and those basketball games... what's that?! you near kill me with those snowmobiles... i haven't seen my family in three months and i still don't know what any plan is or what i'm supposed to be doing!
speaker1: congratulations! you're acting like a child... like a spoiled brat...
speaker3: and not a navy lieutenant commander, which is exactly what would get you killed.
speaker1: finally you're acting like a willful spoiled child which is just what carlos was.
speaker3: we couldn't just let you study carlos. if this thing is going to work, you have to become him.
speaker2: the two most elite intelligence services in the world and the best you can come up with is this porridge bullshit?!
speaker1: as a child carlos was fed that porridge that you love so much every day. he hated it. every woman or man he's ever been close to he told about that porridge... how the very smell of it made him sick. and now it makes you sick.
speaker3: when he was in school he was a scrawny little kid. the last one to get picked for any teams. he felt as clumsy as we've made you feel...
speaker1: his father smoked cigars... the same ones whose smell you complained about. the only cover that can save your life... is the one you believe yourself. now... are you ready to pass the next test?
speaker1: i'll take that for a yes. you're about to go into your house. your wife has told you she was away with the children for a week. she is entering the house for the first time in a week with you. the children are still at grandma's so the two of you have a nice romantic time ahead of you. walk through the house... through the living room and the kitchen only. you have thirty seconds. walk casually through the house so as not to make her suspicious of anything you do and find out if she's telling you the truth or not. if you pass this test your questions will be answered. if not... you'll be sent home to virginia and this will be the end of it.

speaker1: time's up. 
speaker2: nu? is she telling the truth or lying?
speaker3: she's got to be lying, otherwise this would be a very short test and i don't think that's what you had in mind. she had a man over.
speaker1: how do you know?
speaker3: she hasn't been here in a week? then why was the sponge still damp. it means she washed dishes. take a look at the dish rack. there's water in the tray underneath it. probably from a couple of plates. there's a bit of water in the silverware tray. the milk is still fresh... not even a hint of being sour and the date on it is a week from today... means she just bought it yesterday or the day before. the margarine's fresh-bought but it's already been opened. same with the bread.
speaker2: how do you know it was a man?
speaker3: she might have met him at a bar because there's a book of matches in the garbage. she was probably careful to throw the cigarette away but there's still a bit of ash and that cigarette smell at the bottom of the liner.
speaker1: what else?
speaker3: i think they made love on the sofa because one of the cushions has been turned over and there's the indentation of a tennis shoe print in the rug over there.
speaker3: sorta like the ones you're wearing, jack. besides, i know it was a man because i smelled after-shave on the couch.
speaker3: ...cheap kind.
speaker3: jack... you've been my wife.
speaker3: now who's dead?

speaker1: the plan is to get the kgb to eliminate carlos for us. carlos knows every link between the kgb and every terrorist organization in the world. he's not only the smoking gun, he knows every contact there ever was. we make the kgb think that carlos is ready to turn... ready to go over to the cia, and they'll take him out. 
speaker2: why would they think carlos would go over to the cia?
speaker3: money... fifty million... not for the forces of world revolution this time, but for him, in his pocket with a new identity and cia protection. they'll believe it... if we lay it out right... they'll believe it.
speaker2: when do we move?
speaker3: not so fast. you're far from ready. i would think another three months of training and then...
speaker2: i'm ready now. give me any test you want. christ, i already passed your tests... what more do you want?

speaker1: jack!! 
speaker1: amos you piece of wen anta? coos echtak ya sharmuta!

speaker1: ramirez knows they have doped him. 
speaker2: so she tried the first bowl of caviar and said, that's too hot, and she tried the second bowl and said, that's too cold and so she tried the third little itsy bitsy bowl of caviar that belonged to little miguel and that turned into maggots and that was just right...

speaker1: here's the problem, doctor. he needs a new brain. 
speaker2: brilliant, doctor!
speaker2: and tasty, too!

speaker1: i hope we didn't go too far with this. 
speaker2: i'd rather have him wind up in a mental institution up on lsd than shot in some back alley in libya. if he can't handle this, he sure as can't handle going operational.
speaker3: okay... what's next?

speaker1: you're going to hit a hairpin turn exactly three tenths of a mile from the stop sign which should be coming into view at any minute. 
speaker1: don't stop for the stop sign, don't even slow down for it. you've got to hit the hairpin exactly fifteen seconds after you pass the stop sign.
speaker1: the hairpin should be right in front of you. keep your focus. you can't let down even after you negotiate the turn. you never know what's going to be around the next corner... or whose life might depend on your reactions.
speaker2: on the jeep as it negotiates the turn.

speaker1: you crazy-assed mother fucker! i could have killed you! 
speaker2: you can't let down! this isn't a game... it is life and death. you have to be ready for anything, all the time.
speaker1: you!
speaker1: no rules, jack? then you deal with it.
speaker2: you pussy. you rule-following pussy.
speaker2: you know why you don't around on your wife? not because you don't want to. you're a man. you want to everything. but you don't... because you're afraid it would cost you what... your wife, your family, your self respect maybe...
speaker2: ...you know what carlos would do if he was married? he'd bring whatever woman he wanted home and make his wife her. that's what no rules means. that's what you're too much of a to get.
speaker1: no rules, jack? okay... we're in a foreign country on a secret mission... i can't be here, i'm on a submarine. the u.s. navy's my alibi. what's the count on my ammunition, jack? is this one live or a dud?
speaker1: what about the next one, jack? live or dud... who cares... no rules, right?
speaker2: yes, my good son...
speaker1: think you can be lucky three times in a row?
speaker1: how about four?
speaker3: annibal! it's over!
speaker2: stay out of it.
speaker3: it's over, jack. he's it.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: what you'll wear from now on. black t-shirt and jeans... it's the only thing carlos ever wears whenever he's not out being a terrorist. it's the opposite of what he was forced to wear as a child... you know... the school uniforms, the white tight collared shirts... it's become like a fetish for him.
speaker3: and to match your new wardrobe, in another two days your bandages will come off and you'll get to show your beautiful new nose to carla.
speaker1: who's carla?
speaker2: she's a venezuelan. she was carlos' main squeeze about fifteen years ago. she'll put the finishing touches on the act.
speaker1: why's one of carlos' girlfriends helping us?
speaker3: carlos used her... like he uses a lot of women. she emigrated to israel. now she wants to get even.
speaker1: what do you mean used her. how?
speaker2: he put her on an airplane with a bomb in her suitcase. she would have gone up with everything else. what's that song say? there are fifty ways to leave your lover? make that fifty- one.
speaker3: she's about thirty-seven... still attractive.
speaker2: so it's not gonna be a hardship.
speaker1: what's not gonna be a hardship?
speaker2: making love to her.
speaker2: annibal... the way in is a woman... her name is agnieska. it's part of the trap. the kgb will be watching her... we'll make sure of that... she's a more recent girlfriend of carlos... but they've got to be convinced and so does she. carlos, you, are going to ask her to do something. she has to believe you're him or she won't risk it.
speaker2: what the are you lookin' at? you're gonna help murder this guy, you draw the moral line at extramarital sex?
speaker2: don't think of it as cheating. think of it as for the flag.
speaker3: "when in doubt, close your eyes and think of england."

speaker1: the thing about carlos is... he doesn't lose himself with a woman... not with a lover... maybe with a i don't know... i wasn't his whore. lovers are different to him... he might have a use for them... so he has to seduce them properly. he has to make sure they're so crazy about him they'll do anything for him. 
speaker2: when did you...?
speaker1: shhh! you're not here.
speaker1: you don't exist until i'm ready to let you exist, and then... you do exactly what i say.
speaker1: it's not pleasure for him... it's... it's... it's... this sick kind of conquest... you know this seduction... he's got to make you not just a lover but a disciple... a worshipper... he brainwashes you with his body... so... so... you'll do anything... you see because he's the perfect lover... he does it all to... not to please you... but to excite you... to... to make it dangerous for you and then, that's very too, to a woman... that danger... like he could kill you in a second... but instead he makes you come... so he's almost killed you, you see? and you have this right then and it's like he's killed you and there isn't anything left of you and he makes you be born again the way he wants you to be. so there isn't a thought in your brain that he hasn't put there. not a feeling in your body that he hasn't put there.
speaker1: take off your clothes.
speaker2: just like that?
speaker1: look mister...
speaker2: miguel...
speaker1: i don't want to know your name... i don't want to know anything about you okay. this isn't fun for me. i'm not here to play soft music and be romantic. i'm here to help you kill him... at least i hope that's what you're going to do. they promised me it was.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: take off your clothes.

speaker1: you're smaller than him. 
speaker2: great.
speaker1: that's what he would have done if i would have said something like that. without a moment's hesitation. what's wrong with you?! no eres ni hombre!

speaker1: now come to me and kiss where you hit. 
speaker1: kiss where the blood is and then smear it on my lips so i taste it.
speaker1: now go down on me... yes like that... si... si... tease me... tease... but don't let me come... control me... it's got to be when he wants it... yeah...

speaker1: ask me if i like it... he always asks... he wants to hear it. 
speaker2: you like it...
speaker1: demand it.
speaker2: you like it?!
speaker1: yeah...
speaker2: you like it?!
speaker1: make me beg.
speaker2: beg for it...
speaker1: please...
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: please... tell me you want me to come...
speaker2: i want you to come now...
speaker1: you want to feel it all over you...
speaker2: oh yeah baby... yeah... you make me feel so good.
speaker1: stop!... stop it!
speaker2: what... what'd i do...
speaker1: he never loses control... he never tells you how he feels. he's in control. he's the one who makes you feel what he wants you to feel. he never feels anything... you stupid... stupid...
speaker1: roll over!
speaker2: why?
speaker1: on your back!

speaker1: i'm carlos... you're me. 
speaker1: you like it...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you like it?
speaker2: oh baby...
speaker1: ooooo i want to make you come...
speaker2: yeah...
speaker1: i want to make you come... i want to feel it all over me.
speaker2: yeah... yeahhh... yeahhhhhh.
speaker2: what the are you doin'?
speaker1: let me... let me do it... put your hands down.
speaker1: he does that... he's crazy... he chokes you... just a little.
speaker1: then he goes to the refrigerator and eats... he's always hungry afterwards... always... i feel like filth.
speaker2: i'm sorry... i'm sorry.
speaker1: get your hands off me!
speaker2: shh... i'm not him... i'm not carlos... i'm...
speaker1: i don't care who you are. i don't want to know anything about you... except that you're going to kill him.

speaker1: [it seems our friendly bank manager in zurich has received instructions to put a new name on the account of our mysterious mister paulo ortega... agnieska kozinski. does the name sound familiar?] 
speaker2: [should it?]
speaker1: [i ran a check on her. she's a french national... originally polish. she was a girlfriend of carlos.]
speaker2: [our carlos?]
speaker1: [the question is... is he still our carlos. or is he about to become someone else's.]

speaker1: well... not the most painful way to burn your bridges behind you, huh miguel? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: saint miguel the faithful husband is dead. long live carlos. you've cheated on your wife... now you can do anything.
speaker2: what i did in there i didn't do to cheat on my wife and you know it.
speaker1: hey, pussy.
speaker2: i just got it about you, jack. you can't get it up, can you?
speaker3: we've got it. just confirmed.
speaker1: got what confirmed?

speaker1: the kgb has set up a surveillance on agnieska. and agnieska has received her summons from her long-lost love... carlos, telling her to come and meet you. at the meeting you convince her you're carlos. you ask her to handle some bank transactions. she will. then the kgb knows carlos and ortega are the same man. then later they'll see you meet with a cia agent. they'll have all the pieces. they'll know carlos has turned. 
speaker2: where do i meet with this agnieska?
speaker1: libya. that's where carlos is.
speaker2: couldn't we wait till he takes a trip? i mean libya...
speaker1: the waiting is more dangerous to you than going to libya. we've laid out a trap. now we have to be careful not to get caught in it ourselves.

speaker1: jack doesn't know that we're having this talk and i don't want him to know... understand? 
speaker2: okay...
speaker1: nothing can make you ready for combat but combat. jack would be against me telling you this... he would say you shouldn't have a thought in your head that we haven't put there but you're not just a box that we're going to fill up with our own ideas. you have a right to know certain things.
speaker2: i appreciate that amos... a lot. it's funny, i started out hating you... i mean i'm still gonna sue you, don't think you're off the hook for my broken ribs, but...
speaker1: but now you love me and we're going to run away to san francisco and find a reformed rabbi to perform a mixed gay marriage. listen to me... you're going to feel more alone than you've ever felt in your life. it will hit you all of a sudden and you'll think your heart's going to jump out of your chest, you'll think everyone around you can hear your heart beating, and that everyone around you is an enemy agent. i want you to be prepared for that. so you can deal with it. understand?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: we had an agent... the best we ever had in training. we were going to infiltrate him into beirut and then use him to penetrate the pflp. no student ever scored higher than this man... we set up his cover for six months in argentina. he was perfect. and then we sent him to beirut. he got off the plane, went to his hotel, went up to his room and had a nervous breakdown.
speaker1: we had to mount an operation to send in a man posing as a doctor so we could drug him and get him out on a plane. okay? now you understand? nothing prepares you. i want you to know that so when it hits you, you don't panic, you feel the fear and then get rid of it.
speaker2: jesus...
speaker1: you splash some water on your face. you take some deep breaths. you look in the mirror and when you look in that mirror, i don't want you to find annibal ramirez. you find carlos. if you find carlos, that's what everyone else will find too. and if you find carlos and anything goes wrong, he's the one who can get you out of it. because he's the best.
speaker2: i got a wife i got to go back to when this is over. i got kids i got to go back to when this is over. i want to go back as annibal ramirez... not carlos.
speaker1: you will... you'll need a time of decompression and it will be hard at first, but you will. because inside you aren't carlos... you aren't a terrorist. but right now, in order to save your life, you've got to be. you've got to look in the mirror and find carlos. do you understand? it is almost said like the offering of a vow.
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: you won't be able to go in with a gun... too risky... so we're going to have to get one to you once you're in place. how i don't know yet... but we'll get one to you. you'll make your way out by boat. we'll be on it. but we won't be able to help if anything goes wrong. we'll make our way down the coast to a friendly state and then fly back to london, and from there back to the u.s.

speaker1: sheil el nadara! 
speaker1: ricardo moran vargas?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: your business? 
speaker2: pipes. i sell pipes.
speaker1: pipes?
speaker2: for the oil...
speaker1: oil?
speaker2: pipes for oil... petroleum...
speaker1: step over behind the curtain.

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: room service.
speaker1: i not order nothing.
speaker2: iced water.
speaker1: iced water?
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker2: sir...?

speaker1: [there she comes...] 
speaker2: [do you see misha?]
speaker1: [not yet.]
speaker1: [there he is.]
speaker1: [he's passing her to leonid. for russians, they make good arabs.]

speaker1: carlos... when is he coming here? 
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker1: don't play games with me. we've had you followed. we know you're going to meet him. now, when?!
speaker2: i don't know any carlos... please i'm telling you the truth.
speaker1: this gun has a silencer. there won't be any noise. now talk!
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about... i'm not from here. i just came to visit a girlfriend. this is her apartment. she'll be here tomorrow... please.
speaker1: you're lying...
speaker2: i swear to you... i'm telling the truth...
speaker2: what... what are you going to do to me.
speaker3: first... i'm going to have some fun with you... and then...
speaker4: then i'm going to have something to eat... i'm famished.

speaker1: you bastard! i haven't see you for two years and this is the way you... 
speaker2: i had to be sure i could still trust you.
speaker1: i came all the way to this god- forsaken country didn't i? i've been holed up in this place you arranged for me for the past twenty-four hours... i couldn't eat i couldn't sleep... nothing just sitting in here waiting for you.
speaker2: so why did you leave. . .?
speaker1: whoever stocked this place with food didn't leave much of a selection... i wanted to go out and get some nice things for you. you weren't supposed to be here for another three hours. i could have made a nice dinner.
speaker2: i've got what i want to eat in my arms right now.

speaker1: i wonder what he's doing now. 
speaker2: practicing safe sex, i hope.

speaker1: my my 
speaker2: yeah... now, let's eat.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: just getting some air in here... don't be so jumpy.
speaker1: forget about what's in there... i found caviar and, here's some pate.
speaker2: didn't like the food i'd left for you, huh?
speaker1: couldn't eat a bite of it.

speaker1: who was here smoking a filter-tip cigarette my darling? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you don't smoke filters.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: that's what i'm talking about! the filter-tipped cigarette. who was here.
speaker2: you're crazy... no one... i... illich... listen... i ran out of cigarettes and... and i was at a cafe and i bummed a cigarette... i had a cigarette and coffee and came back here... that's all.
speaker1: you bummed a cigarette... that's all.
speaker2: yes... yes... you know i can't have coffee without a cigarette.
speaker1: i believe you.
speaker1: the nearest cafe is two blocks away. a cigarette wouldn't have lasted that long... so you bummed a cigarette but it wasn't in a cafe... it was very close to here... in this apartment building. who did you meet with? that window was a signal wasn't it?! wasn't it you puta
speaker1: tell me or you're dead!
speaker2: the french... the dst... they made me... i didn't have any choice...
speaker1: you sold me out!

speaker1: illich... you must get dressed. there was a shooting tonight... we have to talk. 
speaker2: what shooting... who?

speaker1: what the are you talking about, you didn't know she was working with the dst? 
speaker2: we didn't. how the should we know?
speaker1: they're our allies, for christ's sake!
speaker2: they didn't tell us this time. why should they it was their operation. and we sure as weren't gonna let them in on you being here.
speaker1: why not?! that way they wouldn't have tried to kill me and i wouldn't have wound up killing them.
speaker3: it would have been too dangerous.
speaker1: too dangerous... what the do you think that was back there? safe? how the more dangerous does it have to get?
speaker2: annibal, the important thing was it worked! the russians have to think it was carlos now... . what did they see? they trail the girl... and then there's a shoot out. let's make sure they know it was dst... we can make sure they get that information. if they know the dst was there then what were they doing there if it wasn't to get carlos. she betrayed you, so tomorrow we take her name off the bank account and we set up another place for them to get their pictures. we burned libya but okay so we'll find another place. the only thing that matters is they've got to believe it now. it's perfect!
speaker1: you maniac! i killed four dst agents tonight! they're our allies and they were tryin' to kill me and i killed them. i killed our allies!
speaker2: hey our allies!
speaker3: annibal... policemen wind up shooting other policemen... it happens. i would rather have you here feeling guilty about them than to know there was a meeting in paris tonight where they were feeling guilty about you.
speaker2: annibal... you did what you had to do and it worked. all the training worked. carlos couldn't have done it any better.

speaker1: [whether carlos was actually in there with her or not we don't know... all we know is there was a gun battle... dst agents from what we've been able to find out. but whether or not it was carlos...] 
speaker2: [if it was carlos and he sent for the girl... and she betrayed him... well... we should keep watch on the girl. what he does about her will tell us more than anything else.]

speaker1: so the moronic dst find an old girlfriend and send her here to bait a honey trap for me... and then they trip over their own and start shooting each other... why? 
speaker2: there was a man with her... who we don't know... they must have spotted him come in... thought it was you and moved too soon... before she even made contact with you. whoever he was... he was awfully good.
speaker1: where is the girl now?
speaker2: they've taken her to paris.
speaker1: i want the dead!
speaker2: it won't be easy.
speaker1: if it was going to be easy i could hire a couple of junkies. i want the dead! you handle it koj. hit her in paris, right under their noses and leave europe through london.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: now! leave now. not this afternoon... not five minutes from now... now!
speaker1: something else troubles me my friends. how was this woman going to make contact with me. you're the only ones who knew about this safe house. so one of you was her contact.

speaker1: [when?] 
speaker2: [this afternoon... the girl and two dst agents dead, one wounded.]
speaker1: [so now we know... it was carlos.]
speaker1: [we still have to tie him to the cia... if that is what's going on. i won't make a move against him until i know for sure.]
speaker2: [why?]
speaker1: [because my dear boy... four of his colleagues shot in libya, plus the dst and now the girl. he's a very dangerous fellow. one doesn't make a move against such a man until one is sure. and then one must move very quickly and kill him... before he has a chance to kill you.]

speaker1: is this seat taken? 
speaker2: no, go right ahead.
speaker1: i want to go home. i want to see my family.
speaker2: this isn't the place for this conversation.
speaker1: no rules, remember? i want to go home. you said yourself we can't move again till he leaves libya. you don't even know when that's gonna be. he might stay there another year for christ's sake.
speaker2: no he won't. he's gonna make a move and it'll be in europe just to stick it up the dst's nose. i'm gonna go and find out about our connecting flight.

speaker1: you don't you know better than to approach me in public! 
speaker2: excuse me sir... i only wanted to know where i could buy a newspaper.
speaker1: go over there by the phone booths and wait... i'll come to you.

speaker1: tell me what i want to know quickly or you're dead. 
speaker2: down!!

speaker1: get out of here... now... 
speaker2: i've got to get you to a doctor.
speaker1: get out now...
speaker2: i'm not going to let you die here... i've still got a lawsuit against you, remember?
speaker1: my dear boy... my dear dear boy... i am dead. please don't let it all be for nothing... get out now...
speaker1: walk slowly... no attention.

speaker1: cousins industrial maintenance, may i help you? 
speaker2: mister simon wicks, please.
speaker1: ringing.
speaker3: simon wicks here.
speaker2: this is jack shaw. could you send a clean-up crew to heathrow. we've had a rather nasty spill.

speaker1: yes... i'm calling about my cousin... oh jesus... oh jesus... 
speaker2: oh no...
speaker1: i understand... yes... good bye.
speaker2: amos?
speaker1: he's dead.
speaker2: why?! why didn't you let me go back to him... if we'd have gotten him help sooner instead of... instead of "we had a rather nasty spill!" is that what it was jack? is that all amos was... a rather nasty spill, mop it up, it'll be okay?! huh?!
speaker1: he would have been dead anyway and he knew it. that's why he told you to get out.
speaker1: looks like you're going to get to see your family after all.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're going home... it's off... for the time being at least.
speaker2: i want him. i want that son of a carlos! and i want him dead!
speaker1: tough what you want, annibal. koj had a ticket for libya on him. chances are he wasn't looking for you but...
speaker2: he wasn't looking for me... he thought i was carlos!
speaker1: that's what i think too but the director wants an operation review board... the dst shoot out... the girl winds up dead in paris... now this... i've got to go back for the review and you've got to go home.
speaker2: no way man... it was my fault... the whole thing... i want him dead!
speaker1: what do you mean it was your fault?
speaker2: when he asked me about the paper... if i coulda just bullshitted my way...
speaker1: it was a password... you didn't know it... anything you would have tried would have backfired. i had a thing like that... awfully warm for this time of year... the response was, yes but not as sticky as two summers ago... the guy says anything else... he even hesitates, you shoot him. i shot him... there was nothing else you could have done.
speaker2: i'm not leavin' till we get him.
speaker1: nobody's askin' you. they're shuttin' us down. you go back home... maybe i'll see you again... maybe i won't. you'll either hear from me or you'll get new sea duty and that's the end of it.
speaker2: just like that?
speaker1: just like that. i ain't the madam kid... i'm just one of the whores. and so are you.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: you've been with another woman... haven't you.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: haven't you?
speaker1: no. what... what would make you say a thing like that?
speaker2: you're different...
speaker1: maura... i was on a submarine... there aren't any women on submarines... there was nothin' to do but read. they had one of those... how to improve your life books... i must have read it about ten times. i tried out a couple of things from chapter three okay? i mean if it didn't turn you on blame doctor ruth okay?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: great. you want to check with the navy to see if we had shore leave... i'll get you a letter okay?
speaker2: i don't need any letters. and i don't need you to talk to me like that either.
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: get somethin' to eat... i'm starving.

speaker1: maura... maura! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: where's the car? the car's not in the garage. where's the car?
speaker2: the fellow at the service station said it needed a tune up. i took it in this morning... you didn't say you were going to need it.
speaker1: don't do that anymore.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't want anybody workin' on the car. car needs something i'll do it. but i don't want anybody touchin' that car.
speaker2: why? what difference does it make.
speaker1: it makes a difference to me okay? so don't do it.
speaker2: did you check the mail?
speaker1: yeah i checked the mail. still nothin' from the navy. why, you so anxious to get rid of me?
speaker2: i don't want you goin' back to those subs. i'll tell you that.
speaker1: yeah well i don't have much to say about it. it's the navy you know.
speaker2: you can request another assignment. it's changed you annibal. it's hurting us.
speaker1: what's hurting us?
speaker2: your attitude... that's what hurting us.
speaker1: my attitude. i don't have an attitude man... you got an attitude.
speaker2: you're suspicious of everything that goes on... you snap at joey, you snap at me. i don't like it.
speaker1: look i just... it's hard gettin' used to... you know... it's hard... listen... tomorrow's joey's game. let's just go to joey's game. it'll be nice. it'll be like it always was. you'll see.

speaker1: okay... remember, what do we do? 
speaker2: keep my eye on the ball.
speaker1: and who's the guy who wins?
speaker2: whoever has fun, wins.
speaker1: right! so you go out there and have fun.
speaker3: i don't want so see you out there dickin' around today, you understand?
speaker4: yes sir.
speaker3: you're gonna be focused and aggressive and you're gonna play to win. got it?
speaker3: hey, you think i'm talking just to hear myself talk? look at me when i'm talking to you!
speaker1: hey pal, lighten up, what do you say? it's just a game?
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker1: i said lighten up. it's just a game and he's just a kid.
speaker3: he's my kid.
speaker1: great. so why don't we let our kids have a good time. come on, i'll buy you a beer.
speaker3: i don't need you to buy me a beer, you piece of and you stick your face in my business again and i'll beat the living out of you. what do you say to that?

speaker1: what are you smilin' at, asshole? 
speaker2: a dead man...
speaker3: annibal... please!
speaker3: annibal please. let's go sit down.
speaker1: good idea, annabelle. your ol' lady just saved your ass.
speaker3: annibal... please... please...
speaker1: what are you doin' standing here?! you're supposed to be over there with your team! now move!
speaker1: i said...

speaker1: little league, huh? tough game. 
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: it's show time.

speaker1: i got to have time to think it over. 
speaker2: there isn't any time. he's on his way to east berlin. we have word he's planning another attack in europe. he'll be there maybe four days at the most.
speaker1: hey, i don't know what to do anymore, okay? i almost killed some little kid's father today. i don't know about anything anymore.
speaker2: hey, he was a baseball dad. he deserved it. besides, from what i heard his kid was out, so what's the beef?
speaker1: i don't know if i could come back from it again.
speaker2: what happened to i want the son of a dead? you think carlos has had a change of heart and turned nice all of a sudden?
speaker1: don't tell me about carlos, jack. i know exactly who carlos is. i know a of a lot better than you do. but, maybe there's more important things to me, like keepin' from goin' crazy... like gettin' back to bein' me instead of me bein' some kind of maniac.
speaker2: you want to get back to bein' you? then finish it. kill him. kill him and he's dead and it's over with. you walk away from it now and what do you think you're gonna be like the next time you read that that son of a blew up some airplane full of women and kids.
speaker1: hey, the guy deserves to be dead. i know that.
speaker2: this isn't abstract, annibal. you're walkin' around with his face. sooner or later one of the bad guys is gonna see it like koj did, and next time amos won't be there to take the bullet for you. carlos doesn't forget. you help me get him or you're never gonna know when he's comin' after you... listen to me kid. i don't have any friends, no family, no nothin'. the only relationships i ever had that mattered to me were with the people i killed. but i... i created you! you can't just walk away now.
speaker1: you did create me, didn't you... from the beginning... that kid in the hospital in bethesda... when i was supposed to be the doctor... it was all bullshit, wasn't it? all an act...
speaker2: this doesn't have anything to do with you and me. it's you and carlos. you help me kill him... or i swear to you... i'll make sure he knows about you... i'll use you for bait. you and your whole family too.
speaker2: huh? huh?
speaker2: you want to try and kill me, that doesn't solve your problem, pally. you've got a carlos problem. that's the guy you've got to kill. that's what it's all about now... you... and your family... or him.

speaker1: no! i won't let you do it! you're not going back to those subs! it's changed you... you need help, annibal. you could get some kind of stress disability or... 
speaker2: enough!
speaker1: no, not enough. whatever is going on out there with your job...
speaker2: with my job!? what do you think my job is, maura... huh? what do you think is out there? a nice, pretty safe little world with shopping malls and little league and ballet lessons. you sit here in your little kitchen and cook your little meals...
speaker2: people are killing people out there! jackals are licking up their blood waiting for the next corpse to drop... and i'm one of them. you get that? do you get that now?!
speaker2: i've murdered people. not safe and clean and surgical firing a missile from some ship, but close and with my hands so their blood splattered on me... so their brains splattered on me. and they weren't the enemy, maura... they were allies. they were on our side. it was just to keep a cover... i've betrayed everything i ever believed in. i've betrayed you... i've other women... i've killed men... there was a woman i would have killed but i just ran out of time. i've let friends die... i've become a terrorist... and i've made you and the children a target. do you understand what i'm saying to you? do you see me now? do you see the monster? there's another one worse than me and he is out there and he will kill you and the children if i don't kill him first... . that's my job, maura. and if you don't mind, i'm late for work.

speaker1: we used a double agent to get word to the russians that carlos is really here to close his deal with us and not to plan a new attack in europe. he has a new girlfriend... he's been her brains out since he got here. he has her brought over every night in a limo. you'll be dropped near the mansion... as soon as she goes in, you make as if you're sneaking out... the russians will be watching. you'll go to the meet. it's at that beer hall, there... see? you see it? 
speaker2: got it.
speaker1: you go to the meet at the beer hall. play it out... let 'em take your picture... then you've got to get back. they're going to have to analyze the pictures and see through your disguise before they can authorize a hit. they won't be able to do that before you're able to get back to the mansion. at twenty-one fifteen a volga with diplomatic plates, dc- four-five-nine-two will come by the northeast corner of the compound. it will slow down... you jump in. if you can't make it for any reason, there will be another run at exactly twenty-one forty-five. it's your only ticket out so don't be late.
speaker2: who do i meet? who's my contact?
speaker1: me... my is on the line too.
speaker2: who cares? this isn't you and me. it's me and him. if the russians don't go for the bait for any reason...
speaker1: if the russians don't go for the bait for any reason you will have gotten out of there at twenty-one fifteen per orders.
speaker2: if the russians don't go for the bait for any reason, i'll go in there and kill him myself. and if i'm still alive i might just come looking for you.

speaker1: the blonde, bearded ramirez. 
speaker2: [you think it's him?]

speaker1: come on... come on... 
speaker2: not till he's dead, jack. not till he's dead.
speaker1: 

speaker1: [the nose is a fake.] 
speaker2: [match the nose. and get rid of this wig...]
speaker2: [have you identified the one he was meeting with?]
speaker1: [his name is jack shaw. cia counterterrorism.] the head kgb officer turns to his aide.
speaker2: [get me the mfs on the secure phone. i want them out of the way.]

speaker1: don't even think about it. it would deprive the kgb of the pleasure of interrogating you. 
speaker2: kgb? i thought...

speaker1: what? that we were your new friends... the cia... jack shaw... 
speaker2: jack shaw...?
speaker1: stop playing games. and it's no use looking behind me... your associates can no longer be of assistance. not to you, not to anyone...
speaker2: comrade, you'd getter have an explanation --
speaker1: you've got it all wrong, illich. it's you who has all the explaining to do... now get dressed! you too, fraulein.
speaker2: my pants...
speaker2: that's what was going on in libya. the cia... the dst... they're trying to set me up and you're falling for it, you
speaker1: enough. we tailed you to your meeting. we have the pictures of you with shaw.
speaker2: that's impossible. i've been here all night. ask her. tell him.

speaker1: it's true. all night... 
speaker2: we know about your women... now hurry up, both of you!

speaker1: don't shoot. it's me you asshole! 
speaker2: let's get the out of here.

speaker1: have you come looking for me now, annibal? 
speaker2: what the are you talking about...
speaker1: awfully warm for this time of year isn't it?

speaker1: any word? 
speaker2: how you feeling?
speaker1: did he get away?
speaker1: then it was all for nothing... the whole thing.
speaker2: no it wasn't. he's finished. the kgb bought it. as far as they're concerned, he's the enemy now. he'll bounce around from one country to the next. but his paymasters have disowned him. none of their client states will risk using him. no one'll trust him again. he'll spend the rest of his life looking over his shoulder waiting to be betrayed. and it'll happen... sooner or later... when it's to some country's advantage... they'll give him up or they'll trade him. he's finished. it worked and he's finished.
speaker1: not for me he isn't... there are still two of us...

speaker1: is it over? 
speaker2: no.
speaker2: you have to make a new life for yourself and the children.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: maura, anytime i start a car i'll wonder if this is the one that explodes. i couldn't bear the thought of you and the children being in that danger. he'll want me and everyone i've ever loved to be dead. trust me... i know how he thinks because it's the way i think now too. i am so... sorry. i am so sorry...
speaker1: i won't leave you.
speaker2: maura, when my father was put into prison he told my mother to take me and leave and start a new life. that's what you've got to do.
speaker1: you're not in prison and i'm not your mother and i won't leave you. i will not let him do this to us. not him... not the cia... not anyone.
speaker2: he'll come after me.
speaker1: get me a gun and teach me to shoot and he'll have to deal with both of us. this animal will not destroy my family. please... come home.

speaker1: hello... 
speaker2: hi... listen, do you and annibal want to come over with the kids for a barbeque this afternoon?
speaker1: uh sure, i think... but could i call you back later? we're just about to go to church. annibal and the kids are already in the car.
speaker2: okay, call me when you get back.
speaker1: great. talk to you later. bye bye.

speaker1: mister mendoza? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: special delivery letter for you sir.

speaker1: not bad news i hope. 
speaker2: someone... died.
speaker1: i'm so sorry.
speaker2: this guy's better off dead.
speaker1: no one is better off dead i think.
speaker2: some people are.

speaker1: you're quite early. i wasn't expecting you for another half an hour. 
speaker2: i like to be unannounced. it's safer that way.
speaker1: yes, yes, of course. if you'll just have a seat. i've done everything as you said. my assistant has been let go for the day. i'll administer the anesthetic myself. i assure you sir, you are completely safe here.
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: feeling drowsy now? 
speaker2: yes...
speaker1: would you like to see what your new face is going to look like when we're done?
speaker2: yes... of course.
speaker1: it's going to look just like this...

