speaker1: their faces... 
speaker2: as it begins to chime nine a.m.

speaker1: lapp was a good farmer. none better. 
speaker2: but not the man to buy a horse for you. hochstetler, wasn't it your father sold him that horse with a ruptured testicle?
speaker3: told him it was a bee sting made him limp that way.

speaker1: i was sorry to hear about jacob. let us hope he walks close with 
speaker2: i'm sure he does, daniel.

speaker1: daniel? 
speaker2: i... i was at the feed store. and i saw your horse, so...
speaker2: you will come back soon?
speaker3: quickly, mother quickly!
speaker4: you be careful out among them english.
speaker1: i need time, daniel.

speaker1: as rachel smiles. 
speaker2: i see, darling.

speaker1: is this where we're going? 
speaker2: of course not. we're going to baltimore. it's much nicer in baltimore.

speaker1: we have a ticket to baltimore. where is that train, please? 
speaker2: delayed three hours. you'll hear an announcement when it's time to board.
speaker3: as samuel enters.

speaker1: as his partner snaps from the doorway: 
speaker2: will you come on, for christ's sakes!

speaker1: you found the body? 
speaker2: uh uh. not me, daddy, i just reported it. it was the kid.
speaker1: what kid?
speaker2: how'n do i know what kid? the kid in the funny black threads.

speaker1: as his face breaks into a big grin, and... 
speaker2: hi, kid.
speaker3: immediately alarmed, intervening.
speaker3: what do you want of my son?

speaker1: i'm a police officer. i'm going to have to talk to the boy. what's his name? 
speaker2: samuel. samuel lapp. but what happened here is none of his affair. my sister is expecting me... our train is leaving soon.
speaker1: there'll be another train. the man who was killed tonight was a policeman, sam. it's my job to find out who did it. i want you to tell me everything you saw when you went in there.
speaker3: i saw him.
speaker1: who'd you see?
speaker1: who'd you see, sam? the man on the floor?
speaker3: no... i saw the man who killed him.
speaker1: anybody know about this?
speaker4: i didn't even know about it.
speaker1: okay, sam. can you tell me what he looked like?
speaker3: he was... like him.
speaker3: not zwartich, like him â– book frowns, puzzled:
speaker1: try that one again, sam â–
speaker2: may i talk to you?
speaker5: as rachel takes book aside, and in a low voice:
speaker2: zwartich. it's the way we say... dwarf. not like him... very big.

speaker1: all right, talk. 
speaker2: this is homicide â– not internal affairs! so why are you behaving like you own this case?
speaker1: we were running zenovitch... that's all i can tell you. but i want it, terry. i've got a call into schaeffer.

speaker1: momma... are they angry with us. 
speaker2: no... no. it is just the english way.
speaker3: you ought to think about coming back to homicide, johnny... stick with internal affairs and you're not gonna have any friends left.
speaker4: i'll buy a dog.

speaker1: how reliable is this kid? 
speaker2: oh, he's good.
speaker1: amish.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: what have you got?
speaker2: zenovitch was about to deliver a list of names tonight â– street chemists... the guys processing this p2p into speed.
speaker1: so one of them got to him.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: you know who?
speaker2: maybe.
speaker1: you're still convinced there's a link to the department?
speaker2: if there isn't i've just wasted the last six months.
speaker1: that's the problem. we need results. the press is driving us crazy over this p2p thing. calling us the 'speed capitol of the country'. you know the sort of thing. it's getting political. the commissioner's getting very uneasy.
speaker2: the amish boy saw him, paul. i'll make it, but set donahue and the homicide department off my back or they'll blow the whole thing.
speaker1: when word gets out that zenovitch was a cop, all will break lose. you've got 24 hours. that's all i can give you. 24 hours on your own. after that the case and the witness go back to the homicide department.
speaker1: tell you what... why don't you and that blonde â– what's-her-name â– come over for dinner sunday. how 'bout that.
speaker2: what's-her-name moved to buffalo.
speaker1: well, anyway, don't get crazy. i'll do something for zenovich's wife.

speaker1: i got there late, john. 
speaker2: let's just find coalmine. listen, zenovich made a mistake. you didn't let anybody down. it happens

speaker1: it won't happen again. 
speaker2: where are you taking us?
speaker3: we're looking for a suspect. we've reason to believe he's still in the area.
speaker2: you have no right to keep us here.
speaker3: yes i do. your son is a material witness to a homicide.
speaker2: you don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws!
speaker3: doesn't surprise me. i meet a lot of people like that.
speaker2: it's not a joke.
speaker3: you're right. it's not a joke. listen, i know a little about the amish. i know this has to be an ordeal for you; and i'm really sorry you an samuel got involved.
speaker3: what was that?
speaker2: he wants to know who you are. your name. i told him we don't need to know anything about you.
speaker3: book. john book

speaker1: sammy, where's coalmine? 
speaker2: what you got there, the salvation army?
speaker1: coalmine.
speaker2: try "happy valley".

speaker1: put some light on him. 
speaker1: look at him.
speaker2: john book, you listen to me! i will have no further part in this, nor will my son! as stands between us!

speaker1: ma'am? 
speaker2: no! we do not stay in hotels.

speaker1: how could you do this to me tonight? i told you i had company 
speaker2: sorry. it's important.
speaker3: as she glances in a doorway.

speaker1: as she hustles samuel along. 
speaker2: book frowns:
speaker3: where's timmy and buck?
speaker4: upstairs, asleep. where'd you think?
speaker3: you've got a man here and the kids are upstairs?
speaker4: that's none of your business! so keep your holier-than- thou mouth shut! anyway, they like fred.
speaker3: oh sure, fred.
speaker4: who are these orphans, anyway?
speaker3: they're amish.

speaker1: everything okay? 
speaker2: yes, thank you very much.
speaker1: john said you're amish.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: oh. she nods and goes.
speaker3: i don't want to stay here.
speaker2: they are english. they don't understand.
speaker3: i wish dawdie was with us.

speaker1: jesus... 
speaker2: good morning.
speaker1: you didn't have to...
speaker2: i wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night. anyway, i needed something to do. i was so angry with your brother. he's so... agaanisish!
speaker1: aganishish? yeah, that sounds like john.
speaker2: just a minute. i'll pour you some coffee.
speaker1: you're not carrying a bullwhip... how'd you manage to put my kids to work?
speaker2: i made it a contest... the one who does best gets his cereal back first. children like to help... they only need to be kept after a little bit. rachel means no harm by this, but elaine's eyes begin to storm.
speaker1: oh, is that so? no offense, lady, but i'm not so sure i like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside down!
speaker2: please, i didn't mean...
speaker1: i know exactly what you meant! listen, maybe i'm not a world-class housefrau, but maybe i don't have time to polish the china and keep after the kids! it's none of your business, but i don't happen to have a man around here full time. so i sell cosmetics in a drugstore and sometimes i can even pay the rent on time! so maybe i'm not mary poppins, but maybe i don't need to have it jammed down my throat like this.
speaker1: there is that clean enough for you?
speaker3: elaine... somebody die and leave you a broom?
speaker1: go to hell, fred!
speaker3: what's bugging her?

speaker1: i brought your coffee. 
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't mean it that way.
speaker2: it's okay.
speaker2: what's so funny?
speaker1: fred. the way he looked when you screamed at him.
speaker2: fred...
speaker1: at home you'd never hear a woman scream at a man that way.
speaker2: no? why not?
speaker1: you just wouldn't. it's not the amish way. but i think it would have done me good if i could have screamed at your brother last night.
speaker2: listen, i don't know what's going on or how you got mixed up with him, but don't you let that self-righteous son of a push you around, okay?
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: now what's the problem?
speaker1: the problem is i don't happen to think my son should be spending all his time with a man who carried a gun under his coat and goes around whacking people.
speaker3: whacking?
speaker1: yes. and i also want to leave this city.
speaker3: believe me, i'm trying to get this over with as fast as i can. but samuel will probably have to come back and testify.
speaker1: we do not go into your courts.
speaker3: people who don't go into our courts when they're told to sometimes go directly into our jail.
speaker3: look, i'm genuinely sorry...
speaker1: no you're not â– you're glad, because now you've got a witness. i heard the other police talking last night. they don't seem to like you very much.
speaker3: they kid a lot.
speaker1: i would not be too sure.
speaker1: he says you look very tired. i thought the same thing.
speaker1: but not a good tired.
speaker3: what's a 'good' tired. tired is tired.

speaker1: your sister said you don't have a family? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: she thinks you should get married and have children of your own. instead of trying to be a father to hers. except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
speaker2: oh? anything else?
speaker1: oh yes. she thinks you like policing because you think you're right about everything. and you're the only one who can do anything. and that when you drink a lot of beer you say things like none of the other police would know a crook from a... um... bag of elbows.
speaker1: i think that's what she said.
speaker1: good appetite.

speaker1: there's a sgt. carter on the phone for you. 
speaker1: and, captain, don't want to rush you, but i'm gonna need these files back in a half hour. we got a lot of work to do round here.

speaker1: why don't you arrest that man? are you protecting him because policeman? 
speaker2: listen, i'm the cop that polices the police. i'm not in the business of protecting crooked cops. i'll make an arrest when i know everybody involved.
speaker1: but why would they murder...
speaker2: because â– somehow â– they knew i was getting close. look, it's narcotics... they make dope out of chemicals... they sell it on the street for millions of dollars. they'll do anything. and they can get away with it because they're cops.
speaker1: i'm afraid. i'm afraid for samuel. i want to go home.
speaker2: you'll be safe. you don't have to worry. she says nothing.
speaker2: look, they're thinking as long as they keep the killer out of samuel's way, we can't make an i.d. there's no way they can know samuel saw that photograph, so he's safe.
speaker2: i mean it. you will be safe.
speaker1: oh yes! of course. why shouldn't we feel safe in a city where the police are so busy killing each other!

speaker1: it was mcelroy, paul. 
speaker1: last guy i would have figured. but he's part of it.
speaker2: i hope you don't have any doubts about that.
speaker1: if i did, i'd have kept my mouth shut... it fits, paul... fifty-five gallons of p2p confiscated four years ago... guess who was in on the collar? mac. he salts it away somewhere... he knows the stuff is potent, but the street chemists haven't figured out how to process it. but they do now. and now the stuff is worth five-grand a pint and there are a lot of pints in a fifty-five gallon drum.
speaker2: who else knows?
speaker1: just us.
speaker2: okay, what are you going to need to clean it up
speaker1: more people... gotta pick up where zenovich left off. people from outside the department.
speaker2: maybe the bureau. or those at treasury. i'll take care of it. i hate this johnny. you cut their off for me. i'm counting on you.
speaker2: what's your first move?
speaker1: a hot shower... i haven't changed clothes in two days.

speaker1: who else knows? 
speaker2: just us.

speaker1: as the man stares: 
speaker2: goddamn, buddy. you better get to a hospital! here; i'll give you a hand.
speaker3: no! no hospital!
speaker4: let him alone, henry! if he wants to die in the street, that's his business!
speaker2: shut up, romona! will ya look at that blood?
speaker2: come on, buddy... you're gonna bleed to death!
speaker2: 
speaker4: i told you, henry!

speaker1: yeah... 
speaker2: he's at an n.d. pay phone.
speaker3: listen carefully, i wrote the amish woman's name and address on my desk calendar, i want you to lose it for me, now. tonight.
speaker1: what the are you talking about?
speaker3: nothing. i'm not going to be around for a while. i'll call you when i can.
speaker1: johnny, what the
speaker3: listen to me â– schaeffer's part of it. maybe at the top of it.
speaker3: yeah... i can put it all together when i get back, 'til then, you know nothing, understand? business as usual...
speaker1: i hear you.
speaker3: good. take care of that woman's name for me. and watch your ass.

speaker1: put my car in the garage and close the door. 
speaker2: john, i don't understand any of this.
speaker1: you don't know anything... borrowed your car. didn't say why. and you never heard of that woman and her boy.
speaker2: john, why?...
speaker1: just do it!

speaker1: where are you taking us now? 
speaker2: home.
speaker1: you couldn't wait until morning?
speaker1: what happened?

speaker1: rachel eyes book warily. 
speaker2: you said we would be safe in philadelphia.
speaker3: i was wrong.
speaker2: kinner un narre... ["kinner un narre saage die waahret" â– "children and fools say the truth" â– amish expressions]

speaker1: stay for awhile. rest. i'll make coffee and breakfast. 
speaker2: i can't.
speaker1: what about samuel? will you come back to take him to trial?
speaker3: as eli crosses to rachel, his arm around samuel.
speaker4: who was that man?
speaker1: his name is john book.
speaker5: momma â– look.

speaker1: but john... why didn't you go to a hospital? 
speaker2: no, no doctor...
speaker1: but why?
speaker2: gunshot... they'll file reports... they'll find me.
speaker1: but â– book reaches up to grip her arm fiercely:
speaker2: and when they find me, they'll find your boy!

speaker1: is the english dead? 
speaker2: no...
speaker1: looks dead...

speaker1: stoltzfus is coming. rachel looks at him, nods. 
speaker1: that has no place in this house.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: it will go when he goes.

speaker1: thank you for coming, stoltzfus. 
speaker2: that's the english is it?

speaker1: this man should be treated in town. the bullet entered there... and came out there. but there is the danger of infection, and he has lost a great deal of blood. 
speaker2: go help levi with the car, samuel.
speaker2: no, he must stay here.
speaker3: didn't you hear stoltzfus? what if he dies? then the sheriff will come. they'll say we broke their laws â–
speaker2: we'll pray that he doesn't die! but if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows!
speaker3: rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands.
speaker2: i know help me, i know that, eli. but i tell you that if he's found here, the people who did this to him will come for samuel.
speaker2: what else can we do?

speaker1: make a poultice... three parts milk, two parts linseed oil... for the infection. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: lapp, i'll have to speak with the diener on this matter.
speaker3: as you see fit, stoltzfus.

speaker1: it's all right! you have got to lie still. 
speaker1: yes, much better...

speaker1: looks like we're going to need some help from you folks down there. 
speaker2: ...want to help any way we can, chief, but you got to understand we've got upwards of seven thousand amish over here.
speaker3: who is trying to control his impatience:
speaker1: i've got the woman's name, sheriff. lapp. rachel lapp. that should simplify your work.
speaker2: how about an address?
speaker1: ah... no.
speaker2: maybe a road or route number?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: problem is, chief, 'bout every third amishman around here is named lapp. that or yoder. or hochstetler. chief, if the amish have taken your man in, i wouldn't want to hang from a rope until you find him.
speaker4: schaeffer is tight-lipped with contained fury:
speaker1: thank you, sheriff. it's been an education.

speaker1: well, stoltzfus, another lazarus to your credit. 
speaker2: he was touched by hand.
speaker3: hello.
speaker4: who are they?
speaker3: the leadership of our district... the diener. bishop tschantz is the one with no hair on top. they decided to come and see you for themselves. except stoltzfus, of course. he came the first day. i think he saved your life.
speaker4: can i have something to drink?
speaker4: does anybody know i'm here?
speaker3: only the elders.
speaker4: how long?
speaker3: what?
speaker4: how long have i been here?
speaker3: two days.
speaker4: listen, thank you. thanks for everything. but i've got to go.
speaker3: but you can't.
speaker3: see. anyway, you don't have any clothes on. and besides that, bishop tschantz wants to talk to you when you feel better.
speaker2: rest, mr. book. that's the ticket. and drink my of my tea.
speaker4: tell him his tea stinks.
speaker3: you tell him. when you're able.
speaker3: we're all very happy that you're going to live, john book. we didn't quite know what we were going to do with you if you died. that penetrates for a moment just before book slips into sleep again.
speaker5: ...but a gunshot wound. very serious.
speaker1: it is not the first time we have done this. in the englischer war of the revolution, old elmer miller's grandfather took in gunshot english soldiers. saved them, too.
speaker6: still, he should be among his own people.
speaker3: he'll leave as soon as he is able. he already wants to go.
speaker5: how long will that be, stoltzfus?
speaker2: a month. maybe less. with healing love.

speaker1: did you find him? 
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: then go away, you bastard.
speaker2: elaine, i've come to apologize for lt. mcelroy. he overstated the department's position.
speaker1: he accused john of taking kickbacks. and you know â– anybody who knows john â– knows that's a lie!
speaker2: of course, elaine. but as long as there's any question, better johnny should come back and clear his name.
speaker1: better you should get off my front porch before i get my mace!
speaker2: elaine, i don't want to have to take you in for questioning. you've got his car, you were the last to see him â–
speaker1: i don't know where he is.
speaker2: but... if you had to guess?

speaker1: she say where he is? 
speaker2: i don't think she knows.
speaker2: what about carter?
speaker1: tight. but i'm working on him.
speaker2: lean on him.

speaker1: give me that. 
speaker1: come here.
speaker1: you ever handle a pistol like this, samuel?
speaker2: no pistol. ever.
speaker1: tell you what â– i'm going to let you handle this one. but only if you promise not to say anything to your momma. i've got a feeling she wouldn't understand.
speaker2: okay, mr. book.
speaker1: call me john.
speaker1: you don't want to point that at people you just started calling by their first name.
speaker3: samuel!
speaker3: wait for me downstairs.
speaker3: john book, i would appreciate it if, during the time you are with us, you would have as little to do with samuel as possible.
speaker1: nobody meant any harm. the boy was curious. i unloaded the gun -
speaker3: it's not the gun. don't you understand... it's you. what you stand for. that is not for samuel. book looks at her thoughtfully.
speaker3: please, it has nothing to do with you personally.
speaker1: put it up someplace samuel can't get it.
speaker1: friends?

speaker1: the gun â– that gun of the hand â– is for the taking of human life. would you kill another man? eh? 
speaker1: what you take into your hands, you take into your heart.
speaker2: i would only kill a bad man.
speaker1: only a bad man. i see. and you know these bad men on sight? you are able to look into their hearts and see this badness?
speaker2: i can see what they do.
speaker2: i have seen it.
speaker1: and having seen, you would become one of them? don't you see...? the hand leads the arm leads the shoulder leads the head... leads the heart. the one goes into the other into the other into the other... and you have changed, and gone amongst them...
speaker1: "wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the lord!"
speaker1: "and touch not the unclean thing!"

speaker1: enjoying your reading? 
speaker2: very interesting. i'm learning a lot about manure. what's that?
speaker1: your shirt and jacket are still stained with blood. i have them soaking.you can wear these.
speaker2: your husband's?
speaker1: yes. it's good that someone can have the use of them. besides, in your clothes you'd stand out to strangers.
speaker1: i should tell you these do not have buttons. see? hooks and eyes.
speaker2: something wrong with buttons?
speaker1: buttons are hochmut.
speaker2: hochmut?
speaker1: vain. proud. such a person is hochmutsnarr. he is not plain.
speaker2: anything against zippers?
speaker1: you make fun of me. like the tourists. driving by all the time. some even come into the yard. very rude. they seem to think we are quaint.
speaker2: quaint? can't imagine why.
speaker2: where's the nearest telephone?
speaker1: telephone? the gunthers across the valley. they're mennonite. they have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even.
speaker2: no. i'd want a public phone.
speaker1: well... the store at saltzburg... but you won't be going to saltzburg for a while.
speaker2: i'm going this morning.
speaker1: but stoltzfus said...
speaker2: i know what he said.
speaker1: you can go with eli. he's taking samuel to school. but you'll have to hurry.
speaker2: rachel.
speaker2: thanks.

speaker1: you'd better go. 
speaker2: my... eh... gun?
speaker2: the... bullets?
speaker1: oh. the bullets.
speaker2: not much good without them.

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: it's me.
speaker1: johnny! where the have you been?
speaker2: never mind. i'm coming in to take care of business. how hot am i?
speaker1: too hot. don't do it. don't come in.
speaker2: i'm coming.
speaker1: listen, johnny, don't do anything stupid. you couldn't get within a mile of schaeffer right now. so stay put... stay in touch â– i'll let you know when maybe it makes sense.
speaker1: you hear me?
speaker2: i hear you. i'll stay in touch.
speaker1: that's more like it. where are you at, anyway?
speaker2: where i'm at is maybe 1890.
speaker1: say again?
speaker2: make that 1790.

speaker1: if you are well enough to do that thing, you can do work for me. 
speaker2: sure, i'm sorry. hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. mine's dead... how can i help? what can i do?
speaker1: maybe milking.
speaker2: milking?
speaker1: cows. you know, cows?
speaker2: i've seen pictures.
speaker1: good, you start tomorrow.

speaker1: it reads 4:30 a.m. 
speaker2: as he stares at it in disbelief.

speaker1: good, firm twist and pull, eh? right. now you try it. 
speaker1: didn't you hear me, book? pull! you never had your hands on a teat before?
speaker2: not one this big.

speaker1: careful, son â– 
speaker2: samuel gives the shaken book a look:
speaker3: that's luke. he doesn't like strangers.
speaker1: you don't say.
speaker4: have to teach you mules, too, i guess.

speaker1: good morning. book, is it? you are the yankee they talk about? 
speaker2: i thought i was the english.
speaker1: english, yankee. it's the same. my name is daniel. daniel hochstetler. you look plain, book. very plain.
speaker1: i came to see rachel lapp.
speaker2: try the house.

speaker1: eli is a fine carpenter. best in the district. he and his father built the big house themselves forty years ago. 
speaker2: oh? what happened to hochstetler?
speaker1: we had some lemonade and he left.
speaker2: a real fireball.
speaker1: you know carpentry?
speaker2: i did some carpentry summers when i was going to school.
speaker1: what else can you do?
speaker2: i can whack people. i'm at whacking.
speaker1: whacking is not of much use on a farm.
speaker2: now hold on. there's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate job.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm sure it is.
speaker1: tonight i'll let out those trousers for you.

speaker1: eat up, book. what's the matter with your appetite? 
speaker2: guess i'm not used to so much.
speaker1: not used to hard work. that's what makes an appetite.
speaker3: eli, john is a carpenter. as well as being a fine policeman.
speaker1: eh? well then, maybe he can go to zook's barn-raising, eh? see how good a carpenter.
speaker2: sure.
speaker3: but... you may not be well enough.
speaker2: i'll drink some more of stoltzfus' tea.

speaker1: hi... 
speaker2: when will you be going?
speaker1: not long... a few days.
speaker1: you like it... don't you?
speaker2: no... you just stop â– but she doesn't really want to. book grins:
speaker1: next thing you know you'll be off drinking beer and racing motorcycles.

speaker1: what is this? this myusick? book hesitates, then starts to say something: 
speaker2: it's not her fault. i â–
speaker1: how can this be? how can you do such a thing? is this plain? is this the ordnung?
speaker3: i have done nothing against the ordnung.
speaker1: eh? nothing? rachel, you bring this man to our house. with his gun of the hand. you bring fear to this house. fear of english with guns coming after. you bring blood and whispers of more blood. now english music... and you are dancing to english music! and you call this nothing?
speaker3: i have committed no sin.
speaker1: no sin? maybe. not yet. but, rachel, it does not look... don't you know there has been talk? talk about you, not him. talk about going to the bishop. about having you... shunned!
speaker3: that is idle talk.
speaker1: do not make light of it, rachel. they can do it... quick! like that! and then... then i can not sit at table with you. i can not take a thing from your hand. i... i can not go with you to meeting! rachel, good rachel, you must not go too far! dear child!
speaker3: i am not a child.
speaker1: you are acting like one!
speaker3: i will be the judge of that.
speaker1: no! they will be the judge of that! and so will i... if you shame me!
speaker3: you shame yourself.

speaker1: you know where he is. 
speaker2: wrong.
speaker1: you'd lie to protect him.
speaker2: probably.
speaker1: you admit you're lying?
speaker2: i admit i don't know where he is.
speaker1: you're the first one he'll contact.
speaker2: he's got my number.
speaker1: it's funny. i know he's hiding somewhere with the amish, i know it. can you imagine john book at a prayer meeting? our john book?
speaker1: either you're a member of the club or you aren't, elton. tell me what you know...
speaker2: what i know, paul, is... he's going to take you out...

speaker1: well... 
speaker2: won him over just like that.
speaker1: i see.
speaker2: later.

speaker1: wait here 'til i find a gang you can work with. 
speaker2: book! good to see you!
speaker2: eli says you're a carpenter, book.
speaker3: it's been a while.
speaker2: no matter. come with me. we can always use a good carpenter.
speaker4: good luck.
speaker5: as they move off.
speaker2: your hole is healed, then?
speaker3: pretty much.
speaker2: good. then you can go home.

speaker1: everyone has an idea about you and the english. 
speaker2: all of them charitable, i'm sure.
speaker1: hardly any of them.

speaker1: nail it! 
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: samuel standing there in his nightshirt. 
speaker2: as book leans forward in his chair.
speaker3: hey, sam...
speaker4: ...i want to say a thing.
speaker3: what's that, sam?

speaker1: where rachel is scattering feed to the chickens. 
speaker2: last night.
speaker2: if... we'd made love, then, i couldn't leave.

speaker1: samuel, who is that? 
speaker2: it looks like hochstetler's mare.

speaker1: lieutenant elton carter, please. 
speaker2: are you a member of the family?
speaker1: what? i'm a friend of his.
speaker2: i'm sorry. last night sergeant carter was killed in the line of duty...

speaker1: how are you, john? 
speaker1: john book!
speaker2: i'll take it in the study.
speaker2: you can hang up, dear.
speaker3: you made a mistake, paul. you shouldn't have taken elton out.
speaker2: how bad did mac get you? we figured pretty bad.
speaker3: i'm fine. i'm going to live a long time. that's what i called to tell you.
speaker2: johnny â–
speaker3: you might want to pass it along to mac.
speaker2: listen to me, johnny. come in! you're out there all alone... we're getting close... real close... maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in â–
speaker3: i've already got something worked out. be seeing you.

speaker1: do nothing. this happens from time to time. 
speaker1: it's not our way, john. we'll have nothing to do with violence! john!

speaker1: here comes another one! 
speaker2: you're making a mistake.
speaker3: everything is all right, john.
speaker2: pick up the hat.
speaker4: never seen anything like that in all my years.
speaker5: he's from... ohio... my cousin.
speaker4: we'll, them ohio amish sure must be different. our lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in them.
speaker5: john, lost control of himself. he... will be repentant.
speaker4: you're rachel lapp, aren't you?
speaker5: yes. samuel! we're going.
speaker6: kid's nose is broken!
speaker4: we'll take him up the hospital. good- day to you, mrs. lapp. this ain't good for the tourist trade, you know! you tell that to your ohio cousin!

speaker1: you should not bother with that birdhouse. if you're leaving tomorrow. 
speaker2: i'm leaving tonight.
speaker1: there was a time when i thought you might have stayed.
speaker2: there was.
speaker1: there was a time when i would have welcomed it.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: i was being foolish?
speaker2: no. i was being unrealistic. even thinking about living this life.
speaker1: you're so sure of that?
speaker2: aren't you? after today?
speaker1: i'm not so sure of anything as you are, john book. you could live this life if you wanted to bad enough. just as i could live yours!
speaker2: oh, come on, rachel. no way.
speaker1: there is always a way! but you are such a... a glotzkopp you cannot see! you'd rather go back to that city! to nothing! no woman! no children! no land!
speaker2: land! are you crazy? i'm no amishman and i'm no farmer! i'm a cop. that's what i know and that's what i do!
speaker1: what you do is take vengeance! which is a sin against heaven!
speaker2: that's your way, not mine.
speaker1: that's way!
speaker2: well in the city of philadelphia, needs a little help!
speaker1: i could never love a man who was so... little.
speaker1: the other night... when you saw me after my bath... i... i tried to look as i thought you would want a woman to look. i am sorry... that i did not.
speaker2: looking after her. a face full of loss.

speaker1: there... white oak road a couple of miles before it ties into two-twenty- two. got it? 
speaker2: got it. we owe you one, sheriff.
speaker1: my man holmes here put it together. fine officer, chief. he spoke to the doctor at the hospital.
speaker2: undersheriff holmes and i have talked on the phone. good work.
speaker3: sure you don't want us to post some backup units?
speaker2: if we need any help, we'll give you a shout. i'd like to slip in there quiet, then get out before we attract any attention.

speaker1: maybe i'll take a drive over that way. 
speaker2: let 'em be. it's their dirty laundry.

speaker1: weird, man. no electricity. what do you figure they plug all their into? 
speaker2: they don't have any

speaker1: outside â– check out the rest of the house. 
speaker1: we're police officers. we're looking for a fugitive, john book. he's living here?
speaker2: i have nothing to say to you. get out of my house!
speaker1: you speak english. good. now listen

speaker1: no, you listen. get out! 
speaker2: lady, i'm here to help you. this man is very dangerous. an armed criminal. he's got a gun, hasn't he?
speaker1: you have no right here!
speaker3: he's not in this building.
speaker2: all right, where is he?
speaker4: john book!

speaker1: he'll live. 
speaker2: you might have killed him!
speaker1: find fergie, check the barns. i'll watch these two.

speaker1: is it them? 
speaker2: it's them, sam. now, sam, listen to me and listen to me carefully. listen to me as you never listened before.
speaker1: are they going to kill you?
speaker2: listen to me, sam! i want you to go across the new corn to stoltzfus'. run as fast as you can. and stay there!
speaker1: what are you going to do?
speaker2: i'll be all right. you just do as i say.
speaker1: don't let them hurt you.
speaker2: i won't. now run. fast as you can!

speaker1: get back in there. 
speaker2: my son is out there!
speaker1: nobody's going to hurt your son...

speaker1: fergie? 
speaker2: what the happened?

speaker1: hey, mac! 
speaker2: as he turns toward the sound of book's voice.

speaker1: eyes darting wildly, looking up. 
speaker2: plunging straight for him.
speaker1: diving to one side.

speaker1: turning, shouting: 
speaker1: you stay put!
speaker2: she stops. she is also unable to see samuel.

speaker1: cut that out! 
speaker1: get down to the house and stay there!

speaker1: praise gott! 
speaker1: no, rachel...
speaker2: i have to help him!
speaker1: it is not our way!

speaker1: the patch of blue sky, forty feet up. 
speaker2: he frowns, reaches out, grabs a rung.

speaker1: get back, you people! keep moving, johnny... 
speaker2: you're going to have to do it right here, schaeffer.
speaker1: don't try me, johnny!
speaker3: so... will you kill us all, then?

speaker1: it's all over, paul. 
speaker2: move! or you die right here!

speaker1: are you really ever coming back? 
speaker2: got to, sam. you and i are going to a courthouse together, put some people behind bars.
speaker1: have you got your gun on now?
speaker2: sure have, sam.

speaker1: i want you to take this... to remember by. 
speaker2: where's my baggy pants?
speaker1: here. whenever you want them.
speaker3: you be careful, john book! out among them english!

