speaker1: hey doris, you got any cream? 
speaker2: forget it.
speaker3: dewars and a diet coke. please.
speaker2: hi, natalie.
speaker3: hi. uh...
speaker2: bernie.
speaker3: yeah, bernie. hey, you seen shelly around? he promised to position me at the tables tonight. i've been on skid row all week.
speaker4: you didn't settle me from last night.
speaker3: no? you sure? and i was way under. it's been, like, an a.a. convention the whole week. i'll make up for it tonight. promise.
speaker2: if i see shelly, i'll let him know. that you're looking for him.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker4: that's the third time this month... let me get you that cream.
speaker2: nah, it's okay.
speaker4: don't get sweet on that, bernie. not unless you're looking to get short- changed.

speaker1: hey, bernie, shelly needs you on eleven. 
speaker2: this is you, right?
speaker3: thanks.
speaker2: joe said i should stick around. you say something to shelly?
speaker2: wow. that was fast. hey, thanks.
speaker3: don't mention it.
speaker4: i'll make you a fortune on five and nine. c'mon forty-five-sixty-three fifty-four!
speaker3: hey, buddy, is this your drink?
speaker4: back off, pal. i'm on a roll here.
speaker5: seven out!
speaker4: mother-fucker!
speaker5: thank you for those bets, folks.
speaker6: conway, party of twelve, please check your reservation at the paradise lounge.
speaker3: yeah, yeah, i'm comin'...

speaker1: nicky, how the are you? i didn't know you were coming in... 
speaker2: whassimater? you think i don't wash up after goin' to the john? forget about it.
speaker1: you shoulda called ahead. i woulda sent a car...
speaker2: ehh. we thought we'd surprise you.
speaker1: well, anytime, nicky. anytime.
speaker2: shelly, i want you to meet one of our smartest vps, larry sokolov. and his numbers guy, marty goldfarb.
speaker3: how do you do, shelly?
speaker1: what can i get you boys to drink?

speaker1: so... what brings you to town, nicky? 
speaker2: look, shelly, this is your joint, you run it the way you see fit. but we got a smart kid here and he's got some good ideas on how to revitalize the shangri-la.
speaker1: revitalize? what are you talking about? we did thirty-five million last year.
speaker3: first off, shelly, i want you to know, i have nothing but respect for you. you've done a fantastic job with the shangri-la for the last sixteen years. no one would dispute that.
speaker2: yeah, no one doubts that, shelly.
speaker3: but, the business has changed out here. you just have to take a look at the strip to see what i'm talking about.
speaker1: you mean, that amusement park mook fest out there? you know what that is? that's a violation of something that used to be beautiful. that used to have class. like a gorgeous high priced with an exclusive clientele. and then that steve wynn knocks her up and puts her in a family way.
speaker1: now she's nothing but a cheap, fat hiding behind too much makeup. i look at her and see all those ugly stretch marks and i want to cry. 'cause i remember her as she was.
speaker3: yes, well... there's no denying the bottom line. those eyesores are raking it in. and we can't compete against that.
speaker1: what? you think i'm trying to compete with that? you think this joint's about bringing in the stroller crowd? fresh off some e-ticket ride, looking to break the house on red and black. fremont's never been about that this is where old time and real money comes to play.
speaker3: the numbers, they don't back you up, shelly. nostalgia's grand. we all love nostalgia -- but it belongs in a museum. i think it's time to decide whether you're running a museum or a casino.
speaker2: hey, forget about it. we'll talk later. over dinner.
speaker4: so, how's the action?

speaker1: bernie. mr. cool. got a moment? 
speaker2: i was just heading over to --
speaker1: it can wait.
speaker1: how's the knee?
speaker1: i was speaking to this orthopedic surgeon over at vegas memorial. he tells me they can replace a man's entire kneecap with titanium. it's the kinda thing that costs a shitload, but since the man's into us for five hundred large, i'm sure we could --
speaker2: i told you, i'm not gonna be around after sunday.
speaker1: where you gonna go, bernie? where the are you gonna go that's better'n here? i got you covered in this town. people, they know you work for me, that's currency in your pocket. that's respect when you walk the floor. where you gonna get that anyplace else?
speaker1: that's right. i like to know who's shopping it in my neighborhood. you wanna keep working the shangri-la, you come see me tomorrow morning in my office. we'll go over the rules together. and before you come, you bring me a clean bill of health. ok?
speaker1: all right, get outta here.
speaker1: you want that, bernie? she's yours. anytime. i'll keep a tab running for you. what's a matter? not your type?
speaker2: things are getting hot on fourteen. i gotta go.

speaker1: seven and seven? 
speaker2: thanks, dollface.
speaker1: oh sorry... i'm such a klutz.
speaker3: it's all right. happens.
speaker1: sorry, this guy... hands, you know...
speaker3: s'okay. you might want to stick around.
speaker4: excuse me, mr. pinkerton. you have no hard eight.
speaker2: gimmie a hundred dollar hard eight.
speaker4: eight the hard way!
speaker4: nine hundred dollars to mr. pinkerton.
speaker2: parlay! parlay!
speaker2: c'mon. you can take that action.
speaker2: that's what i'm talking about. none of this low limit
speaker3: dollar hard eight.
speaker4: eight easy! easy eight! hard eight comes down.
speaker2: five hundred dollar hard eight. and press my nine up two units.
speaker4: easy way eight! eight easy!
speaker2: hard eight.
speaker5: way to go, pinkie! bet the farm.
speaker4: seven out!
speaker2: what the you smiling at,

speaker1: shelly. i was a embarrassment tonight. i shouldn'a let you talk me into going on. it's definitely strep. 
speaker2: you were velvet out there, pops. silk.
speaker2: they were hanging on the door outside. forget your tonsils. when the confetti stops coming, that's when you got yourself a problem.
speaker1: you get a receipt?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: charmayne's in the lobby. they got these on sale in the window. victoria secret's valentine's collection. and the broad waiting in the room, what she set you back? always grade-a for ol' buddy.
speaker2: are you kidding me? gimme that. you don't deserve this. all those ladies going home with a sweet breeze between their legs because you still do it for them and you're me for some kinda buddy stafford ego pimp. hey, you, old man.
speaker1: whassimatter, kid? you got that nostradamus look.
speaker1: you ever watch those nature shows on
speaker3: shelly shakes his head.
speaker1: i've seen this one a dozen times. it's about lions. cycle of life thing. the leader of the pack...
speaker2: pride. it's called a pride.
speaker1: yeah, pride. the leader of the pride... when he gets on in years. it's just a matter of time before some young male arrives on the scene to challenge him. they go at it and the old cat gets the beaten outta him. it's humiliating. in front of all the females, this goes down. and after he's defeated, he's cast out of the pride, to scavenge and die alone in the bush.
speaker2: yeah, nature's got a real sick sense of humor.
speaker1: no it's tragic because the old lion can't figure it out on his own. that he's past it. it'd be so much easier for him to just walk away and save himself all that pain and humiliation.
speaker2: that's like admitting to yourself that you're already dead. i prefer nature's way.
speaker1: yeah. me, too.

speaker1: shelly, got a minute... 
speaker1: shelly, this is johnny capella.
speaker2: how ya doin', shelly?
speaker3: i know you from somewhere, right?
speaker1: johnny's been opening for danny ganz at the mirage. sony's talking about signing him to a three album deal. they're positioning him as the new ricki martin.
speaker3: and i should be interested in this, why?
speaker1: johnny's looking to headline. i told him we might be interested.
speaker3: we?
speaker2: hey, if this is a bad time...
speaker3: even if i were interested, buddy's got ink with us through 2003. i just renegotiated his contract last year.
speaker2: sounds like the two of you need to get on the same page. if i don't hear from you by thursday, i'm taking the stardust's offer.
speaker4: where's buddy? i wanna buy the old fart a drink.
speaker3: buddy asked me to send you his regards, nicky. he's not feeling so great. i think he's got that stomach flu that's going around.
speaker4: oh yeah? that's too bad. well, another time then.
speaker5: hey, shelly, nicky says you might be able to hook us up with some showgirls. something with class.
speaker3: sure, no problem. you got any preferences?
speaker4: yeah. something with big headlights, nice rims and low mileage.
speaker5: you got any asian babes?
speaker1: i think i'll just stick with the tables.

speaker1: no... i just know what the outcome's going to be. 
speaker2: the outcome? there's not, like, one particular outcome. a lot of things enter into it. the planets, moon phases...
speaker1: the outcome won't change with me. it'll be all bad.
speaker2: i have never met anyone who was so down on themselves. i used to be down on myself, ok? i don't go there anymore. i've got just three more correspondence classes with this stuff, then i'll have my certificate and everything. and you know how i got ok?
speaker1: you had your chart done.
speaker2: yes, as a matter of fact that is perfectly correct.
speaker1: do you know what i do at the shangri- la?
speaker2: i asked around. you're a "cooler." you turn winners into losers.
speaker1: and do you know how i do that?
speaker2: i know there's stuff that goes on in casinos all the time --
speaker1: i do it by being myself. people get next to me and their luck turns. it's always been that way.
speaker2: that sounds to me like a self fulfilling prophecy. there's a whole chapter on that in my course. anyways, i can see a big factor in your life is that you're lacking companionship. there's nobody to deflect off. if you've got, as you put it, bad karma, then you need someone with good karma to neutralize it. well, that's my take on it anyway.
speaker1: i don't know about you, but i'm real tired.
speaker2: i have this recurring dream where i'm on some beautiful island in the bahamas. i'm sitting on the beach, taking in this amazing sunset with one of these in my hand ...and then it starts to rain. and i wake up and it's my roof leaking on me. yeah, i'm also real tired, bernie.
speaker1: i only got six more days. well, almost five really. then i'll be leaving town.
speaker2: only five more days? then we shouldn't waste any more time.
speaker2: why don't we go back to your place?
speaker1: i, uh... if this is... i don't know... i don't know if i can afford...
speaker1: oh i'm so sorry... i didn't mean... you see -- that's exactly what i'm talking about. i've gone and "cooled" the table.
speaker2: ah, just shut up, bernie. you haven't gone and cooled anything. not by a long shot.

speaker1: you should complain about this. 
speaker2: i'm not here that much. drink? sorry, all i got's gin.
speaker1: nah. i've had my fill. go ahead.
speaker1: you know, once they're dead, they don't really grow back. in case, that's what you're waiting for.
speaker1: so... got any music?
speaker1: sit. relax. i promise you, at least one of us has done this before.
speaker2: this is not my first --
speaker1: sssh. surprise me.
speaker1: you're doing real good.
speaker2: sorry...
speaker1: don't worry, bernie. i've had worse. we'll try again later.

speaker1: hey, so, you wanna get some breakfast? 
speaker2: -- i did six months at rikers for running numbers. it was shelly's thing, but i took the rap for it.
speaker2: after i get out, i call up shelly and he tells me to come out here. i figure he's going to set me up good at the shangri-la. but he tells me they got all these rules about casinos employing felons. so he gets me this gig doing telemarketing for one of their fronts -- trying to scam pensioners out of their retirement money. i lasted two weeks.
speaker2: already, i was getting in deep. finally it got so bad, i had to beg shelly to take on my markers around town. that just bought me more time to keep losing. i put shelly in an awkward position. i understand why he did what he did.
speaker1: he did that to you? what, he shot you?
speaker2: baseball bat. i got off easy.
speaker1: that's getting off easy?
speaker2: i was out of control.
speaker1: but he maimed you...
speaker2: let me tell you something. i'm grateful for what he did. no kidding. every time i get an urge to play off the clock -- to so much as drop a quarter in a slot -- i reach down and squeeze what's left of my cartilage. it's one helluva reminder.
speaker1: jesus... i thought stuff like that didn't happen no more. like that was just in the movies or something.
speaker2: anyway, shelly and i worked out a payment plan. two years off the books at the shangri-la, cooling tables. five more days and i walk.
speaker2: mikey?
speaker3: bernie...

speaker1: i'm ok now. false alarm. thanks. 
speaker2: mikey? is that...? you're not the...
speaker2: this you?
speaker3: hey, what the it runs. anyways, we gotta be somewhere...
speaker2: how's your mom doing?
speaker3: i'm gonna pretend like you give a and tell you, she's getting by. as long as she's wasted. bernie nods. he gazes past mikey to the girl.
speaker3: name's charlene, in case you were wondering. looks like she's carrying a whole litter in there, don't it?
speaker4: when was the last time you saw a doctor?
speaker5: this clinic in jersey. maybe six months ago. i wasn't about to go back after they treated me like cattle. just because i didn't have no insurance. and those places, they're crawling with t.b. from all 'em spies.
speaker2: so, you're in town...?
speaker3: maybe a week or so. got some business to take care of.
speaker2: if you want, stop by the lucky star motel. give us a chance to catch up. i'm on three to eleven shift at the shangri-la. i work the floor.
speaker3: no well, how 'bout that? yeah, maybe i'll do that. we can play catch up. for the kid's sake. gotta split.
speaker4: take care.

speaker1: thanks... 
speaker2: don't mention it.
speaker3: hundred dollar minimum here, sir.
speaker3: money plays one hundred.
speaker1: no offense, pal, but there's twenty other tables. what do you wanna come sit on my head for?
speaker2: just wanna play one hand. feeling lucky tonight. i got this voice in my head, says this is the table...
speaker1: i know this is the table. i'm already doing good here. it's my table --
speaker2: hey, heard the one about the fella walks into a bar and says, "hey, who owns that big great dane outside?" a man at the end of the bar raises his hand. "i do." the fella says, "yeah? well, my dog just killed it." the dealer finishes shuffling, begins to deal.
speaker2: "whaddya mean your dog just killed my great dane? what kinda dog you have?" the fella just shrugs and says, "a chihuahua." "you tellin' me your chihuahua just killed my great dane? how?" "i dunno," the fella says, "i think he got stuck in his throat."
speaker3: insurance?
speaker1: damnit!
speaker1: you said, one hand.
speaker2: keep going.
speaker1: hey, stick around, pal. you and me, we make a great team.
speaker4: what was that?
speaker4: well, what gives? is it mcgann? he's been with us twelve years. the man's as standup as my maybe he's got money problems. i'm gonna pull him. he wasn't counting 'em, was he? the mook with the streak?
speaker5: is there a problem?
speaker4: no, there's no problem. fella's on a streak, is all.
speaker5: let me guess? this is one of your "coolers?"
speaker4: why don't you announce it to the whole joint?
speaker5: man, they told me you were a stickler for the old ways. but coolers? what is this guy, some kind of degenerate gambler? reformed card shark? he doesn't look too effective to me.
speaker4: he's the best. take it from me.
speaker5: sure. whatever. but there ways -- subtle ways -- to keep things in our favor. i'm talking more forward thinking methods.
speaker4: that right? i suppose you got a whole prospectus on the subject.
speaker5: as a matter of fact i do. like, right off the bat, i can tell you this wallpaper isn't going to cut it. it's too uplifting. i would go with more muted tones.
speaker4: yeah? wallpaper?
speaker5: and personally, i think the waitresses can all pop another button or two. myself, i wouldn't hire anything less than a c cup.
speaker5: know what this is? music to be sure. pleasant, non-intrusive. but blended in at a subsonic level is a mantra. "lose... lose... lose." and that's just skimming the surface. we really need to talk, shelly.
speaker6: shelly, you better come quick.

speaker1: get a hold of his daughter. assist her with the arrangements. the shangri- la will take care of everything. 
speaker2: what about the paradise?
speaker1: she goes dark tonight.
speaker3: that won't be necessary.

speaker1: over here, young lady! c'mon, give it a try. eight for a dollar. 
speaker1: sorry there, sweetheart. better luck next time. wanna try again?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: nothing.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: nothing. you're just an easy mark, is all.
speaker2: an easy mark?
speaker3: yeah. easy mark. you never heard that term?
speaker3: when we were kids, shelly and me, we used to work coney island during the summer. when a guy would walk up and seemed eager to open his wallet, we would always mark him with chalk. we'd pat him on the back or arm with the chalk. like, 'hey buddy, good job!' meanwhile, he had no clue the other guys saw him coming a mile away. easy mark.
speaker3: you ok?
speaker2: you notice last night, that tattoo on my butt?
speaker3: little joe.
speaker2: yeah, two twos. little joe.
speaker2: i had a son. his name was joe. i was his mother for a year.
speaker3: you know, you don't have to tell me this.
speaker2: i want to, bernie. better you know the worst of me up front. later, when i'm already invested in you, it'll be too hard to come clean. after i tell you this, you'll probably... i mean, i'll understand.
speaker2: i gave my son up for adoption. i just wanted my life back. i was seventeen going on eighteen and i was selfish. my family, they didn't want to have nothing to do with me after that. so i hitched a ride out here. figured i could make it as a showgirl. ten years later... i like to think that if it happened when i was older -- with some guy i cared about -- maybe things would have been different. i think about my little joe. and, i do know he's better off. i'm convinced of that.
speaker3: so, you wanna go try your hand at the dime pitch? it's early still.

speaker1: i gotta go pee. i'm always peeing. 
speaker2: how did you get in here?
speaker3: i told the desk clerk bernie was my old man. he let us wait inside. that a problem?
speaker2: bernie's looking for a parking space.
speaker3: tell me something, natalie? is he paying you?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker3: my old man, is he renting your ass? 'cause otherwise i just don't get it. a loser like my pops in the company of some primo t and a. it don't compute.
speaker3: this enough to get me a taste? family discount?
speaker4: mikey...
speaker3: hey, bernie. i told you i was gonna stop by.
speaker4: yeah... i figured you'd call ahead. we were out at breakfast.
speaker2: you missed some.
speaker3: you see, the thing is, bernie, we're kinda strapped. i mean, charly here's expecting like yesterday, and we don't have the dough to make with the right nutrition for her an' all. so, i was wondering if you would care to invest a little in your grandchild's future... his well being.
speaker4: there's about three grand there. that's all i got.
speaker1: bless you, bernie. you know, michael, i -- think we should name her bernadette. after your father.
speaker3: you mean, bernie. trust me, it's a boy.
speaker1: wanna feel her?
speaker4: i don't think... i don't want anything to hap...
speaker1: ooh, i just felt her kick. c'mon, bernie, gimme your hand...
speaker1: feel that?
speaker4: i don't know... i think so...
speaker3: we'll catch you later, bernie. i think i'm gonna take charly over to the hospital right now. get her checked up real good.
speaker1: take care, pop.
speaker4: mikey...
speaker4: you're not going to try anything stupid while you're in town?
speaker4: you mess up and they'll cut you no slack. that's all i'm saying. you got a kid to think about.

speaker1: shelly, i hope you don't mind... 
speaker2: what's going on, nicky?
speaker1: i'm sorry we didn't say nothing about this earlier... but the deal wasn't closed yet.
speaker3: don't worry, shelly, you're gonna love it.

speaker1: the new shangri-la hotel and casino. we break ground on her in six months. 
speaker1: i know what you're thinking? where's she gonna go? you need space to expand, right? well, that's been taken care of. we're now the proud owners of the golden frontier next door.
speaker2: she's perfect. three floors of gaming, imax theater, entertainment center, boutiques, restaurants, rollercoaster, you name it. she'll pay for herself in three years, and then it's easy money.
speaker1: isn't she great, shell?
speaker3: in "lost horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the himalayas -- and they get rescued and taken to this utopia in the mountains. shangri- la. it's beautiful. the place is completely isolated. untouched by the outside world. there's no war, no greed, no time is slowed down. people, they don't age. it's... paradise. that's what shangri- la is. paradise.
speaker2: yeah, we've all seen the movie. and your point is?
speaker3: you don't with paradise! all'a ya!
speaker1: hey, c'mon, shelly. we're not trying to with it. we're trying to make it better.
speaker3: how... how, nicky, could it be any better? right now it's perfect. it's the last of its kind. it's pure... and this. ...this is just... it's a mockery. an insult. trying to make something of it that it isn't.
speaker2: what are you talking about? it's right outta the movie?
speaker3: whose talking about a movie? this ain't a movie. this is my life. this is my house of worship. you people are shittin' on all that's sacred to me.
speaker3: i got just one question? where you gonna be when they decide to change it back? when the people, they come looking for the real vegas, from before all this epcott center who's gonna it give it to them? you guys? i don't think so. you know who? the same who started this in the first place. it's all gonna come full circle and bite you in the ass. mark my words. shelly falls silent. massages his forehead. that wasn't the way to handle it. nicky gets up from the sofa, walks over to shelly, places a hand on his shoulder. shelly flinches, but doesn't pull away.
speaker1: you make some good points, shelly. maybe it'll swing back the other way, who knows? but the smart money suggests we roll the dice. i'm not gonna you; naturally there's gonna be a lot of restructuring in the months to come, but i want you to know, you'll always have a place with us.
speaker3: where's that? behind the bar?
speaker4: behind the bar, that's a good one.
speaker1: i think you should take some time and think things through. all this, it's a lot to digest, y'know.
speaker4: speaking of things to digest, i'm starving. how's that buffet they got in the valley of the blue moon? you recommend their prime rib, shell?
speaker3: it's food.
speaker1: hey, my arteries can use a workout. lead us to the trough, shell.

speaker1: wait up a second... 
speaker2: i thought we were gonna eat?
speaker3: maybe we wanna play over there. less crowded.
speaker1: nah, let's play here. this is my lucky table. i always play here. go on ahead. i know where to find you guys.
speaker4: out! seven, line away seven...
speaker5: c"mon, pops! what the hell? i coulda paid my mortgage with the money i just lost.
speaker6: hey? i'm supposed to be next...
speaker1: file a grievance, shithead.
speaker4: we're coming out. eleven, any seven.
speaker1: hundred dollar big red.
speaker5: hurry it up, gramps. your soup's getting cold.
speaker4: crap, ace deuce. line down.
speaker5: hey, busketti, maybe you should try shuffleboard.
speaker5: uncle palsy? shake'em this direction.
speaker4: four, hard four. the point is four.
speaker5: good now throw it before you keel over and die, old man.
speaker5: happy birthday to me. happy birthday to me... i'm another year older already.
speaker4: out! seven! line away.
speaker5: don't take it so hard, pops. everybody craps out.
speaker5: now go change your depends.
speaker1: who's laughing now, huh? ya fuckin! prick! c'mon, crack wise again... ya smooth as a ken doll, no- dick, suburbanite scum. how's that for a game?!
speaker1: that ain't right, shelly! guy up my game like that. who the does he think he is?
speaker3: you're right. he's just a piece of forget about him.
speaker1: i thought this joint had more class. used to be, we wouldn't even let bums like that in...
speaker7: this town... you know, natalie, all i want to do is go some place where i can tell day from night. where they got clocks on the wall. i can't breathe around here no more. four days and i'm gone. i'm not even sure i can hold out that long.
speaker8: so where does that leave us?
speaker7: a week ago, i didn't remember what it was like to have a woman's hands on me. i'm still pinching myself, expecting to wake-up from... come with me, natalie. i want you to come with me.
speaker8: bernie, that's...
speaker7: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to spring that on you.
speaker8: bernie... i want to be with you. i do. but i don't know if i can leave with you.
speaker8: i was working on a compatibility chart for the two of us. and it looks good, really, it does.
speaker7: so, what's the problem?
speaker8: that's with us here. in vegas.
speaker8: maybe i was being presumptuous, 'cause i knew you were leaving... and i tried working it in different ways... it wasn't good, bernie. i got scared. but that's just for now, for the immediate future. once the planets realign, maybe a year from now...
speaker7: natalie... i can't... not another year. not another week.
speaker7: i think... we probably shouldn't see each other anymore.
speaker8: why, bernie? we only got a couple days left together. why not make the most of them?
speaker7: because if i spend one more night in your arms, i'm not going anywhere.
speaker8: and that's so bad?
speaker8: take care, bernie.
speaker7: natalie, don't...
speaker9: get you another?
speaker7: i think you better bring me the bottle. please.

speaker1: come on, mikey. this is our future. don't blow it. 
speaker2: put this on the line for the boys.
speaker2: with shoes!
speaker3: dealer's got shoes. hands high, the dice are out! the point is nine.
speaker1: come on all you's. put a good thought in for our baby!
speaker3: six the hard way!
speaker1: oh my i just felt him kick! he knows. he knows you're all pulling for him. bless you all.
speaker3: six the hard way! look out, we got a shooter!
speaker4: how much?
speaker5: eighteen thousand since i stepped up. i'm sorry, shelly, i guess i've been hit and miss lately.
speaker4: amateurs...
speaker3: seven out! line away.
speaker2: i thank you. my wife thanks you. my unborn child thanks you.
speaker2: color me up will ya?
speaker6: you've gotta be kidding me. that's not how i propose we handle it. we'll turn the matter over to the authorities. they'll be blacklisted, their credit ruined...
speaker4: and then we'll give 'em both a lollipop for the ride home. come watch and learn, harvard. a little lesson on how to protect your investment -- the old school way.
speaker4: hey, that was some run you had back there.
speaker2: uh, thanks. just lucky i guess.
speaker4: why don't we go do this in my office? i don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor.

speaker1: oh my i can feel the contractions coming on... 
speaker2: shelly, stop them! don't do this!
speaker3: get lost, bernie, this got nothing to do with you.
speaker2: it's got everything to do with me. he's my son.
speaker3: what did you say?
speaker2: i said, he's my --
speaker3: who? this little prick?
speaker4: pop, help me...
speaker2: shelly, don't you do it!
speaker3: were you in on this? you better come clean with me.
speaker2: no! no! i didn't know nothing about it.
speaker3: how much you think their lives are worth, bernie? myself, i don't think they're worth piss. but, hey, it ain't my kid...
speaker3: let me see: they were up almost a hundred and fifty grand. that's 150 g's someone's gonna have to account for. what do you say, bernie, seventy- five grand a piece?
speaker3: hey, i know you don't have that kind of cash. but, since you're a friend of the house, i'm willing to front you.
speaker2: shelly, they didn't get away with the money... you didn't lose anything...
speaker2: oh jesus... yes! all right. it's on me. 150 g's.
speaker1: oh oh you gotta get me to the hospital... contractions...
speaker2: shelly, please help her. that's my grandson...
speaker3: hey, why don't we all break out the champagne? lootz is about to become a granddaddy. how you doin' there, sweetheart? must hurt like crap, huh?
speaker1: hurts so bad...
speaker3: yeah?
speaker5: oh
speaker2: nooooo!!!
speaker3: here! it's a boy. anyone got a cigar?
speaker4: i'll make it up to you, pop, i swear...
speaker2: it's on me.
speaker2: what are you doing?! i thought we had --
speaker3: 150 g's buys their lives. this is just a little slap on the wrist to remember me by.
speaker1: oh it wasn't my idea.
speaker3: you know, motherhood is a beautiful thing. this... you made a mockery out of it. maybe you'll get to experience it for real one day.
speaker1: i want... to be a mother... please don't hurt me...
speaker3: i'm not going to hurt you.
speaker3: get 'em outta here. you ever see them in this joint again, kill 'em.
speaker3: you two, you're still on shift.

speaker1: i did this to myself. i planted the seed. when angela took off with mikey, i didn't... i never made an effort to get back in his life. i figured, the kid don't need a loser for a father. now it's all come full circle. i give him the money, i open the door to all this... i musta had it coming. payback. 
speaker2: bernie, it's a big world out there. if you just took off -- if we took off.

speaker1: you awake, bernie? 
speaker1: i -- think i love you.
speaker1: no, i don't think. i'm pretty certain of it.
speaker1: you blind-sided me, bernie lootz. i never saw this coming. you shouldn't do that to a girl.
speaker1: there's still things you don't know... should know... i don't want to ruin it...
speaker2: it won't make any difference, natalie. whatever you come clean about, i'm not gonna feel any different about you. i'd say the words, but with my luck...
speaker1: say 'em anyway. to with rotten luck. that's overs.
speaker2: i love you, natalie.

speaker1: trixie? 
speaker1: trix. you came back.

speaker1: got any cre -- 
speaker2: lovett, party of six, your table is ready, lovett, party of six.
speaker1: duty calls.

speaker1: hey, shelly, check it out. the new mega-million. i call her marnie, 'cause she's one frigid broad. sure, once in a while she'll flash you a bit of tit, but your chances of hitting a home run -- one in twenty million. here, give her a shot... 
speaker2: you wanna tell me what's going on out there?
speaker3: i don't know...
speaker2: what do you mean... marnie immediately spits out a small jackpot.
speaker2: what do you mean, you don't know? we're down almost a mil out there. doesn't seem strange to you?
speaker3: guess i'm having an off day.
speaker2: you don't have off days, lootz. you're luck incarnate. what's wrong? you coming down with something? you've got this look about you...
speaker3: nothing's wrong. fact is, i've never felt better.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker3: she loves me, shelly. she told me last night. natalie.
speaker1: sweet jesus... you popped her cherries.
speaker2: natalie? she told you, she loves you?

speaker1: put that thing out! 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: you should be. you've gone and it up big time. i paid you to be his cooze companion, not his true love. but, no, you had to go and get all profound on the poor schmuck. "i love you, bernie." you know what you've gone and done, sweetheart? those four little words of endearment have already cost this casino a million and counting today.
speaker2: i don't understand...
speaker1: lady luck. you never heard'a lady luck?! that's what's goin' on out there. lootz is kryptonite on a stick. he should have 'em throwing ice cubes out there, but instead i got a meltdown on my hands.
speaker1: ok, here's what's gonna happen. you're outta his life by the time he gets home. don't even tell him to his face, just leave a note. i'll make some calls, situate you at another joint.
speaker2: i can't do that.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: it wasn't an act. i meant it. i love him.
speaker1: what's there to love? he's a loser. always has been, always will be.
speaker2: i thought you were his friend...
speaker1: and i thought you were a smart cookie when i picked you out. you do not want to me over, darlin'. i'll see to it that your next john's a rattlesnake out in the desert. now get the outta here.

speaker1: hi. any of you seen natalie around? i'm supposed to give her a ride home. 
speaker2: i think she left already. she wasn't feelin' too good. we been covering for her.

speaker1: natalie? you in there? 
speaker1: natalie.

speaker1: i want you to tell me the truth, shelly. did you say something to natalie? did you muscle her -- 
speaker2: bernie, is that what you think of me? that i would with your happiness? that hurts.
speaker1: this guy's all flash. no soul. i miss buddy. place isn't the same without him.
speaker2: buddy was tired. i gave him an easy out. it coulda been a lot worse...
speaker2: he woulda never taken the buy-out offer. buddy woulda stuck to his guns, no matter what. and they woulda ended up hurting him. i couldn't let that happen.
speaker1: jesus... you... how can you sit here and justify it? like you were dr. kevorkian or something?
speaker2: listen to me, you -- i loved that but his time was up. what i was supposed to do, leave him to those corporate wolves? what i did, it was the humanitarian thing. that i have no doubt about. afterwards, i held him in my arms and i cried like a baby. what? you got this look -- what's this look?

speaker1: bernie? you awake? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: let's just take off.
speaker1: i mean it. let's just pack up and go. tonight.
speaker2: i can't do that. i've got an obligation to shelly. there's no --
speaker1: shelly. he doesn't give a about you. let's just climb into your car and get the out of here.
speaker2: i can't do that, natalie. they'd come after me. and because you were with me... i wouldn't want that on me.
speaker1: just hold me.

speaker1: you got no right...! 
speaker2: what did i tell you?! what did i tell you?!
speaker1: i tried... i couldn't...
speaker2: i don't give a
speaker2: you're gone, sweetheart. history. kiss paradise goodbye.
speaker2: who the do you think you are? you ain't nobody! i could make you disappear like this... and nobody would ever notice you were gone. nobody!
speaker1: you!
speaker2: you cunt... he slices her cheek open.
speaker2: you think that's bad? that's just a taste, you're still here when bernie gets home and i'll finish the job. i'll cut you into so many pieces, the vultures'll be trading on you for a month.
speaker2: here... go get yourself some cosmetic surgery.

speaker1: natalie. 
speaker2: no, don't. i've got a headache.
speaker1: did you take something? i got some aspirin in the --
speaker2: yeah. i already took something.
speaker1: ouch!
speaker1: natalie, what happened? the mirror...
speaker1: natalie.
speaker2: bernie, no!
speaker1: oh jesus... natalie, who did this to you? we need to call the police...
speaker2: i love you, bernie. i just want you to know that. i fell in love with you. that wasn't part of the plan. i thought... easy money...
speaker1: what are you saying?
speaker2: shelly. he paid me to get next to you. to keep you around. whatever it took...
speaker1: shelly?
speaker2: you got it right the first night. i was for sale. bought and paid for. you were the easy mark, bernie.
speaker2: at first you were just another john. but then i started to take a closer look. for the first time, here was someone who wasn't trying to hustle me. wasn't pretending to be somebody he wasn't. just a decent guy trying to get back on track. and it didn't hurt any that you put me up on a pedestal. it sure puts the gutter into perspective...
speaker1: shelly...
speaker2: shelly wants me gone. he says i bring you luck. lady luck. i stayed... to tell you to your face... and then you wouldn't want me no more... and i could just go...
speaker1: we gotta get you to the hospital. we'll talk about this later.
speaker2: just tell me one thing, bernie. tell me there's gonna be a later.

speaker1: tell me again, bernie. tell me it's all gonna be okay. 
speaker2: everything's gonna be fine. this is our time. this is you and me and we're going for it.
speaker2: you look in the mirror, you don't like what you see, don't believe it. you look in my eyes. that's the only mirror you gonna need. look in my eyes, natalie.
speaker2: i love you. marry me?

speaker1: you don't have to do this, bernie. 
speaker2: yeah, i do. i have to tell him right to his face. i will not look over my shoulder for the rest of my life -- our lives.
speaker1: bernie, your chart... that first night. i wasn't being straight with you. it's the worst chart i've ever seen. there's nothing in the cards for you. i'm scared...
speaker2: don't you see, that was before you opened your heart to me. everything's different now. i got lady luck on my side. ain't nothing gonna happen to me.
speaker1: it's three thousand dollars. take it. maybe shelly'll accept it as a down payment. we can send him the rest in installments... after we get settled.
speaker2: i don't think --
speaker1: take it.
speaker2: whatever happens, i --
speaker1: i know, bernie.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: bernie, what's the matter? you look a little spooked. 
speaker2: you lay another finger on her, i swear to i'll kill you. you hear me? i'll kill you!
speaker1: will you excuse me for a moment?

speaker1: why? why, shelly? 
speaker2: because you never give up a good thing, bernie. you are a good thing. the best cooler there ever was. and i need him back.
speaker1: he ain't never comin' back.
speaker2: that's a dead man talking.
speaker1: i'm through with this joint, shelly. natalie and me, we just got married. we're outta here. i'll get a job out there in the world. send you half my paycheck every month. make good on my obligations.
speaker2: you try to walk on me, bernie, and i'll bury you. the both of you.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker1: you whack me, then bernie lootz ain't the world's biggest loser no more. that honor's gonna fall upon you, shelly. and maybe you had it all along.
speaker2: what the me? i'm the loser?
speaker1: what you got? what do you got in your life besides this joint?
speaker2: what the more do i need?
speaker1: you got nothin', shelly. this place -- your legacy -- it's a mirage. you turn your back and it don't even exist. there's no day, there's no night, it's all just one big blur and it don't count for nothin'!
speaker2: you believe this guy?
speaker1: i feel real sorry for you. yeah, you got this fear of germs thing. but it goes deeper than that. you can't get close to no one. on an emotional level. you're the worst kind of gambler there ever was: too scared to put his chips on the table. too scared to open his heart... to extend any real kinda friendship. always afraid it's gonna end out in the desert. well, sweet dreams, pal, 'cause i'm out and if that's where it ends, that's where it ends.
speaker2: that's a real heartfelt speech, lootz. all that jimmy stewart in ya face intensity. you almost sold me. man, i've got a lump in my throat. but it still don't change things. you bail on me without making good on my 150 g's and i'm gonna be forced to close the books on you. you and the broad. you leave me no choice.

speaker1: change only... 
speaker2: check change three thousand.
speaker3: this a pleasure cruise, bernie?
speaker1: you could say that.
speaker3: well, it'll be a short one. table's dead.
speaker2: it is now, anyway.
speaker4: yo eleven! pay the line.
speaker4: winner seven!
speaker4: six easy. easy way six!

speaker1: natalie... this is you... 
speaker1: for the boys.
speaker2: okay, we're coming out. get your yo bets, cande, any seven...

speaker1: how much is he up? 
speaker2: around three hundred thousand.
speaker1: why didn't one of you geniuses call me?
speaker2: we tried. you weren't picking up. besides, it was bernie.
speaker3: alright. we're coming out folks, hands high...
speaker4: wait!
speaker4: color me up a hundred fifty thousand. and give it to him.
speaker4: that's what i owe you, shelly. there it is. we're square. let it be known, bernie lootz lives up to his obligations.
speaker2: one hundred fifty thousand, coming in.
speaker5: what's the matter with you? he's one of ours and he's taking us to the cleaners.
speaker1: lootz's off the clock. as long as he's off the clock, he's free to play. just like every other schmuck in this joint.
speaker5: it smells wrong. i'm shutting him down. he's not leaving here with a dime --

speaker1: ace deuce! line down! 
speaker1: call it.
speaker2: twelve crap.
speaker3: fifty thousand dollars!
speaker4: on the field? what're you nuts?
speaker5: don't do it!
speaker6: shake it, don't break it, baby!
speaker3: come on sixty-six!

speaker1: thank i thought for sure... 
speaker1: it's okay, right? you guys worked it out. he took the three grand? tell me it's okay, bernie?

speaker1: what are you stopping for? 
speaker2: i think i'm gonna...
speaker2: bahamas, here we come, baby. she throws her arms around him...
speaker3: step out of the car please.
speaker2: what's the problem, officer?
speaker3: just step out of the car, please. both of you.
speaker2: if my driving... if i was going a little fast -- i was just over excited, officer. see, we just had a big win at the shangri-la --
speaker3: you didn't win nothing.

speaker1: oh bernie, i knew it. it was too good to be true. who were we kidding? 
speaker2: get down on your knees. both of you.

speaker1: he was drunk. it was just freak luck... 
speaker2: don't give it a name, bernie. it scares me. all i know is, you're still running hot and that's a good thing. but we're only winners if we keep going. no looking back.
speaker1: lady luck, natalie. i'm calling it. lady luck. and we got it as long as we're together. they can't touch us now.

