speaker1: number one is the winner! dewey has the winner. pays five to two! 
speaker2: don't you shitheels ever get bored?
speaker2: ... 'cuz i got a riddle.

speaker1: takes about two ounces of brains to figure it out. anyone think they got a brain with two ounces of brains in it? 
speaker1: for chrissakes, boys! a little self-confidence from the players' gallery. we ain't talking long division.
speaker2: how much we gotta lose?
speaker1: you want to liven things up, earl? that's a of an idea. say everyone puts in twenty bucks and the pot goes to whoever solves the riddle.
speaker3: you going to get the riddle, tin cup?

speaker1: dewey. i'm the one asking the riddle. i already know the answer. i don't getta guess. although... we could say if i get to five hundred bounces and no one gets the riddle, i get the pot. and i know what you're thinking. it's an impossible riddle. well, it's not. it's an easy riddle. and if somehow by the grace of fluke luck i win, and you all don't agree it was an easy riddle, hell, i'll refund your money. 
speaker2: i'm in... we're in... count us in... etc...
speaker1: okay, a man's driving down the road with his son and they get in a crash. two ambulances come and take the man and his son to different hospitals. son goes into the operating room, the doctor looks at him and says, 'i can't operate on this boy. he's my son.' how's that possible? the clock's ticking boys...
speaker3: father didn't sneak back in, right? he's still at the other hospital?
speaker1: it ain't 'star trek,' earl. no one beamed him aboard.
speaker3: well... if the father married the son's daughter --
speaker1: it's a family riddle, earl. think clean thoughts.

speaker1: the regulars puzzle some more. 
speaker2: give us a little hint.
speaker3: the doctor's a woman.

speaker1: the doctor is the son's mother. feminists pose the riddle to reveal how deeply our sexual stereotypes run. i take it you're a feminist? 
speaker2: ma'am, i've been called a lot of things -- but no one's ever saddled me with that one.
speaker1: you might try being saddled sometime -- the smell of leather, the sting of a whip...
speaker2: i'm just a humble golf pro...
speaker1: you're roy mcavoy the golf pro? i pictured something... different.
speaker2: i thought i had a doctor griswold

speaker1: the first thing you gotta learn about this game, doc, is it ain't about hitting a little white ball into some yonder hole. it's about inner demons and self-doubt and human frailty and overcoming all that crap. so... what kinda doctor'd you say you were? 
speaker2: i'm a psychologist -- in layman's terms call me a neo-jungian, post- modern freudian, holistic secularist.
speaker1: 
speaker2: inner demons and human frailty are my life's work. i used to practice in el paso but i've moved here now...
speaker1: what're those?
speaker2: i ordered these from the golf channel.

speaker1: that stuff's a waste of money. 
speaker2: i'm sure there are excesses and repetitions here, but i believe in the gathering of knowledge and i figured, well, there must be some truths about the golf swing illustrated by these devices -- and that you'd help me sort through it.
speaker2: i have dozens of golf videotapes, too... and a golf watch.
speaker1: take it off. all of it. now! you're a smart woman, for chrissakes -- don't you know the work of charlatans when you see it?
speaker2: no. i can always tell when someone is lying to himself, but i'm quite susceptible and frequently wrong when that person lies to me. that stuff cost me over 200 dollars --
speaker1: then it's 200 dollars of
speaker1: go ahead. take a swing.

speaker1: aw, 
speaker2: well, you talk like a golfer --
speaker1: 
speaker2: 'fuck...' these are highly technical golf terms and you're using them on your first lesson -- this is promising.
speaker1: awright, wise ass, show me.
speaker2: something like that.
speaker1: impressive. y'know, i tend to process things verbally. can you break down into words how you did that?
speaker2: 'what is the golf swing?' -- by roy mcavoy. the golf swing is a poem.
speaker2: sometimes a love sonnet and sometimes a homerian epic -- it is organic and of a piece, yet it breaks down into elegant stanzas and quatrains. the critical opening phrase of this song is the grip, in which the hands unite to form a single unit by the simple overlap of the smallest finger... ... held lightly, a conductor's

speaker1: baton. lowly and slowly the clubhead is pulled back, led into position not by the hands but the body which turns away from the target, shifting to the right side without shifting balance. tempo is everything, perfection unobtainable, as the body coils, now to the top of the swing, in profound equilibrium. and then a slight hesitation, a nod to the gods... 
speaker2: a nod to the gods?
speaker3: to the gods, yes... that he is fallible. as the weight shifts back to the left pulled now by powers inside the earth -- it's alive, this swing, a living sculpture -- and down through contact, always down, into terra firma, striking the ball crisply -- with character -- a tuning fork goes off in your heart, your -- such a pure feeling is the well-struck golf shot -- and then the follow through to finish, always on line -- the reverse 'c' of the golden bear, the steelworker's power and brawn of carl sandburg's arnold palmer, the da vinci of hogan, the unfinished symphony of roy mcavoy.
speaker2: what? what's unfinished?
speaker3: i have a short follow through -- my swing can look unfinished.
speaker2: why?
speaker3: some say it's because that's the best way to play through the winds of west texas... and some say it's because i never finish anything. you can decide. the point is every finishing position is unique as if that is the signature left to the artist, the warrior athlete who,

speaker1: finally and thereby, has asserted his oneness with and power over the universe by willing a golf ball to go where he wants and how and when, because that is what the golf swing is about... it is about gaining control of your life, and letting go at the same time. 
speaker2: jeez louise...
speaker3: there is only one other acceptable theory of how to hit a golf ball.
speaker2: i'm afraid to ask. what's the other theory?
speaker3: grip it and rip it.
speaker2: while i appreciate your poetic sensibility, mr. mcavoy --
speaker3: call me roy, molly...
speaker2: call me dr. griswold...
speaker2: roy... but at this point i think i'm more of the 'grip it and rip it' school. hand me the driver.
speaker3: waggle it, doc, don't forget to waggle. waggle... the club head... ... it's a little relaxing ritual...

speaker1: let the big dog eat! 
speaker2: what big dog?
speaker1: the driver, the number one wood --
speaker2: it's metal.
speaker1: yeah, woods are metal -- don't worry about it -- and the driver's known as the big dog and i'm just saying to turn him loose, let 'er rip, let the big dog eat!
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: this is, without a doubt, the stupidest, silliest, most idiotic grotesquery masquerading as a game that has ever been invented.
speaker1: yes, ma'am, that's why i love it. and if you hit one good shot -- if that tuning fork rings in your loin -- you can't wait to get back. she cracks one dead solid perfect out into the night. it felt great and she knows it.
speaker2: i think the big dog ate something.
speaker1: did the tuning fork ring in your loin?
speaker2: i wouldn't go that far.
speaker1: always quit on a good shot. we'll call that lesson number one...

speaker1: if you're such a legendary striker of the golf ball as everyone says, then why are you, at your age, out here in the middle of nowhere operating a barely solvent establishment, ducking the i.r.s., collecting a few pathetic dollars to buy your next sixpack -- when you're capable of so much more? 
speaker2: perhaps i'm chocked full of inner demons?
speaker1: no, you're chocked full of -- same time next week?
speaker2: what did you mean i should try 'being saddled' sometime?
speaker2: were you being literal or was that some kind of freudian type deal? molly? doctor? what kind of saddle?

speaker1: a class act there, boys -- probably the first actual `lady type' female ever seen on these premises -- 
speaker2: shut up, boss -- we got the corpus christi dog track on the dish --
speaker3: this is yer dead mortal cinch lock bet with do-reen.
speaker1: free money, boys, what does doreen know about the fine art of greyhound breeding?
speaker2: all she knows is she likes the three dog 'cause his name is pride of odessa 'cause she's from odessa.
speaker1: get ready for oddessa-lation, boys.
speaker2: you gave her twenty to one --
speaker3: it's only fifteen to one on the toteboard --
speaker1: yeah, but i got every other dog in the race. i'm just getting even with doreen -- i'm not trying to clean her clock.
speaker4: so how much you stand to lose?
speaker2: twelve thousand.

speaker1: hundred. 
speaker2: thousand.
speaker1: hundred.
speaker2: you said to shoot the wad.
speaker1: i said get even, pod. i didn't say shoot the wad. we better see that three dog rolling on his ass.
speaker3: except... if he breaks slow, he won't get creamed...
speaker4: three dog's dying, t.c.... easy money...
speaker4: uh-oh.
speaker2: so, roy, you were saying you felt a little flutter for this doctor lady?
speaker1: yes, i was saying that... just before i was interrupted by... bankruptcy -- a development that the 'doctor lady,' as you call her,

speaker1: we lost everything, boss! we owe doreen twelve thousand bucks! 
speaker2: i think i been dating too many big-haired blondes.
speaker1: them big-haired blondes are a lot smarter 'n us... ... how we gonna pay her?
speaker2: you underestimate me, romes.
speaker1: it's a bad habit i picked up from knowing you so long.
speaker3: hey, tin cup, doreen's looking for ya --
speaker2: i'm sure she is...

speaker1: busy man, courtenay, busy man -- 
speaker2: tin cup! hi, sweetie!
speaker1: hiya, honey -- lookin' sweet...
speaker3: that better be you, roy.

speaker1: doreen... 
speaker2: you're looking particularly lovely this evening -- this is nicer than the leopard suit --
speaker3: cut the horseshit, guys. so... the one and two dogs always run wide and the three dog always breaks slow, so i figure there's gonna be a big ol' pile of fur at the turn and the three dog's gonna tiptoe around it and walk on home... i was right. you owe me twelve thousand dollars.
speaker2: we going to pay you.

speaker1: tin cup squirms as doreen babbles a bit. 
speaker2: i know you're going to pay me.
speaker2: y'know i finally got rid of the leopard suit thing -- it was so retro, y'know... it's not easy being a post-modern stripper... so... twelve big ones?
speaker3: there. with equity and inventory it's worth twelve grand... more or less.
speaker2: this is how you think you can settle up? by deeding me your driving range?
speaker3: only on condition you don't sell right away, and me'n romeo keep our jobs.
speaker2: what in the world would i want with your stupid driving range?
speaker3: equity, inventory, cash flow... not to mention an enhanced stature in the community, and prepaid membership in the salome chamber of commerce.
speaker2: what are your labor costs? payroll, roy. what do you pay

speaker1: your help? 
speaker2: let's see... the tractor kid gets five bucks an hour. romeo, he gets ten cash --
speaker3: what do you pay yourself?
speaker2: myself?
speaker3: to hit golf all day... when you're not breaking for beers or corn dogs or to gather the guys and lay bets on which crow flies off the fence next.
speaker2: you're referring to my managerial salary?
speaker3: i'm referring to every nickel you out of the till and every bag of beer nuts you lift from the rack, is what i'm referring to. i'll say it's worth ten and you still owe me two.

speaker1: i still got two grand to pay off. and i can't see my new salary of seven bucks an hour plus lessons getting it done. 
speaker2: but your clubs are your livelihood.
speaker1: well the hood ain't too lively at the moment.
speaker1: whoever it is, tell 'em i'm in houston on business.
speaker2: david simms! what you doing in town?

speaker1: romeo! it's been awhile. is tin cup around? 
speaker2: he's on business in houston... you supposed to be out playin' on the golf tour.

speaker1: well, you tell him i'm in town for my big charity best-ball tournament, and i got a spot for him when he comes back from... 
speaker2: you got a spot for tin cup? i thought you hated him.
speaker1: romeo! you wound me. i'm fond of the guy, going way back to our days at university of houston, when we won all those titles together.
speaker2: he says he carried you on his back.
speaker1: i didn't have much craft back then -- just a little native ability. roy's a great ball- striker....
speaker2: why you here?
speaker1: i want to win my own tournament, and he can help me if we can manage to behave like grownups together. tell him that.
speaker3: what's the catch?
speaker1: there is no catch. i put together a tournament with an elite field and a half-million dollar purse, and i'm tired of seeing all the money head out of town.
speaker3: then make more birdies.

speaker1: i need you on my team. 
speaker2: you ain't that friendly a guy...
speaker1: we're playing cottonwood where you once shot fifty-nine, where you can shoot sixty-five in your sleep 'cuz you know every bump on every fairway, every subtle break on every green --
speaker2: you an' me --
speaker1: me an' you -- like the old days.
speaker2: ... well, put 'er there, partner! these two homeboys are gonna show the world what golf in west texas is all about!
speaker1: no, roy. i didn't mean i want you to play with me. i just want you to caddie for me, read my putts, club me, that kinda stuff.
speaker3: you son of a
speaker2: caddie? me?
speaker1: i can't bring a guy in off the street to play in my tournament. it's a big-time event, corporate sponsors, thirty dollar tickets...

speaker1: i'll pay you a hundred for the loop, five percent of any earnings -- 
speaker2: get the outta here! take your color coordinated corporate sponsored soul and get outta here.
speaker1: okay, okay, just thought i'd offer you some work...
speaker3: simms!
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i'll take the job.
speaker2: we'll take the job.
speaker4: drives away down the road.
speaker3: that man stands for everything i hate in life.
speaker2: you mean like... success?

speaker1: like i told you, it was more'n you had in the bag. 
speaker2: yeah, well... i had to go for it after your caddy said he could get home from here.
speaker3: i could.
speaker1: i gotta hand it to you, roy. for fifteen holes you've seemed to grasp the concept here: i'm trying to win and your job is to help me.

speaker1: five percent of your earnings does numb the gag reflex. 
speaker2: give me the seven iron. i'm laying up.
speaker1: you can make that shot.
speaker2: the smart play's to lay up.
speaker1: these fans didn't pay thirty bucks to watch a tour star lay up on a short par five.
speaker2: i'm sitting on a two shot lead with three to go, and my partner's in his pocket. suddenly, par's a good number. gimme the seven iron.
speaker1: no way. you're going for the green. these fans paid good money to see golf shots they can't hit, not golf shots they feel about themselves for having to hit.
speaker1: thirteen years on tour and you're still a pussy. hit the one iron, dave.
speaker2: thirteen years in a driving range and you still think this game's about your testosterone count.
speaker1: two-fifteen to carry, and the tour star's laying up.

speaker1: if reconsidering. 
speaker2: but if you're gonna editorialize, do it on the other side of the ropes. i got no qualms about firing your right here, right now.
speaker3: fire me? hell, i should fire you.
speaker4: he can.
speaker5: hey, dave! we in a hurry?
speaker5: 'cause i just bet mccord and mickelson that your caddie could knock it on from here.
speaker2: we're trying to win a tournament, pardo.
speaker5: i know. but i'm getting five to one.

speaker1: here ya go. take a hack at it. 
speaker2: versus brains, roy. you hit that shot, just keep walking, 'cuz your is fired. tin cup mulls over the warning, as: stadler, mccord, mickelson come on, roy! your fans are calling!
speaker3: how you gonna fire me in front of all these people? especially when i knock it on the green.

speaker1: break for a side bet, here -- 
speaker2: take a hike, roy -- the loop's over.
speaker3: you can't fire me. how can you fire me? i just knocked it stiff from two fifty. gimme that bag.

speaker1: security! 
speaker2: what about my money?
speaker1: you just hit the shot that took you out of the money. welcome to life on the tour.

speaker1: and finally sports machine brings you a bizarre incident... 
speaker1: driving range pro, roy `tin cup' mcavoy...
speaker2: hey, tin cup! you made the news!

speaker1: if i had it all to do over, i'd still hit that shot. 
speaker2: the look comes over your face, you would bury yourself alive to prove you can handle a shovel. tin cup looks over at romeo for signs of an implied pejorative. but romeo's just washing and scooping balls... and looking badly in need of perspective.
speaker1: you know why i'd still hit that shot?
speaker2: 'cuz it's the only way you can beat david simms. 'cuz you never got over that he is on tour and you are not. 'cuz you get that look on your face...
speaker1: no... i'd hit it again because that shot was a defining moment. and when a defining moment comes along you define the moment or the moment defines you. i did not shrink from the challenge. i rose to it.
speaker2: 1981, fort washington golf club, fresno, california, final round of the tour qualifying school...
speaker1: i was playing to win.
speaker2: a defining moment when you tried to hit the same impossible cut

speaker1: three wood into the wind from a hilly lie -- four in a row out of bounds -- until you finally pulled it off and tapped in for a thirteen. when a twelve woulda got you on the tour! that was a defining moment and the definition was 
speaker2: greatness courts failure, romeo. that's why most people, in their whole lives, never ever reach for the brass ring, never know when to dig deep and try for the impossible shot...
speaker3: you're right about that, boss, but sometimes... sometimes... par is good enough to win.

speaker1: it's a business proposition. i'm offering you my winnings from all them tournaments this summer. 
speaker2: in exchange for what?
speaker1: my driving range back.
speaker2: roy, i'm not as as my hair makes me look.
speaker1: they ain't all strictly minor league. one of 'em pays almost two grand!
speaker1: now wait, doreen. you gotta do the math, and you gotta look at how good i'm playing. i hit the shot of the tournament at the best-ball. they put it on national tv.
speaker2: i saw.
speaker1: and what does that tell you?
speaker1: and what does that tell you?
speaker2: it tells me you took an unauthorized day off. next time it happens, you're fired. in the meantime, i'm putting in a time clock.
speaker1: i'm not punching in no time

speaker1: am i early? 
speaker2: mr. mcavoy, i can appreciate that you have a fairly laid-back, relaxed lifestyle -- but i have hours to keep.
speaker1: a former paramour once ascribed my fluid sense of time to being born under the sign of pisces -- something about floating through the universe --
speaker2: you amuse me, roy. but i'm the only woman in america born after world war ii who thinks astrology is a crock of now let's see if the big dog'll eat.
speaker1: waggle.
speaker2: i'm waggling...
speaker1: set up to the ball like i showed you last time.

speaker1: quit trying to wring that club's neck, molly. show it a little warmth and compassion... 
speaker1: remember, this game's about trust and touch and letting go. so while i'm subtly enhancing your technical prospects, why don't you tell me all about your personal life...
speaker2: it's none of your business, roy.
speaker1: your boyfriend's a golfer -- that's my bet -- and he's why you're taking this game up. hell, i probably even know him --
speaker3: get your hands off her ass, roy. and, as tin cup's hands recoil in alarm...
speaker2: hi, sweetie...
speaker1: not him...
speaker4: crushed and bewildered.

speaker1: he's taking her to miami for the doral! how am i supposed to compete with that? 
speaker2: man, you are having a bad week.
speaker1: she must think i'm such a nothing, such a loser... a lousy driving range pro living in a winnebago, making five bucks an hour plus lessons.
speaker2: she don't know you live in a winnebago.
speaker1: well, she sure as knows i ain't taking her to no doral for massages and mimosas all weekend. i gotta do something with my life.
speaker1: i gotta rise to a level worthy of the women that think i'm a joke.
speaker2: well... you could go out and win the open.
speaker1: romeo, that idea has promise.
speaker2: i was joking.
speaker1: i ain't.

speaker1: we talking about the same tournament? the u.s. open? the biggest golf tournament in the world? 
speaker2: not just the biggest golf tournament in the world; the most democratic.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: i mean it's open. anyone's got a shot at it. you just gotta get past a local and a sectional qualifier, and unlike doral or colonial or the a.t.t., they can't keep you out. they can't ask you if you're a garbageman or a bean- picker or a driving range pro whose check is signed by a stripper. you qualify, you're in.
speaker1: and then you pay out of your own pocket to go there and get all nervous and intimidated --
speaker2: who's intimidated? i just told you i'm gonna win the thing!
speaker1: you don't got the game.
speaker2: i got every shot in the book.
speaker1: i said you don't got the game.
speaker2: you suggesting i err on the side of excess?
speaker1: you always go out to shoot zero. sometimes you pull it off. but you can't play like that at the open. you win by taking what the course gives you. you win by being humble, which you aren't, and patient, which you never will

speaker1: be. 
speaker2: well, since you're the authority, how'd you like to teach me how to be what i ain't and never will be?
speaker3: you don't ever listen to me.
speaker2: this time'll be different. i promise.
speaker3: i don't know, man. right now you don't even got the money to get your clubs out of hock.
speaker2: yeah, well... my sticks may be in a shop, but i got a rake and a hoe at the range.

speaker1: let me get this straight -- you're going to play me for four hundred dollars with those? 
speaker2: and i'll give ya two a side... i got the title to my car as collateral.

speaker1: i'm not interested in that piece of 
speaker2: that's cuz you think of it as transportation, boone. think of it as bragging rights. think of yourself sitting around the bar crowing to your buddies about the cadillac you won off tin cup mcavoy. they'll forget all about the winnebago you lost to me.

speaker1: no mullies, no gimmes, no bumping the ball -- and he rips a drive down the fairway. 
speaker1: nutted it.
speaker2: i'll be playing a pink lady today.
speaker1: that little pink ball supposed to rattle me?
speaker2: not unless i knock it by you.

speaker1: yep, i caught this thing way the on the toe. 
speaker2: drive for show, putt for dough, big shot.
speaker1: did you hear that, romeo? boone was being profound! he has revealed to me the essential mystery of golf! drive for show, putt for dough... louisville slugger, please.
speaker3: you got boone shakin' already -- front left bunker's your best angle to the pin.
speaker1: front left bunker -- plugged lie.

speaker1: i want to see a legitimate swing. no scooping. 
speaker2: stand, please. gallery, please, stand.

speaker1: he addresses the ball, choking down on the hoe, 
speaker2: i'll finish.
speaker3: get the off my course.

speaker1: listen, swami, your job is to teach me patience and humility, not to advise me on my love life. 
speaker2: no. my job is to get your head straight so you can qualify for the open, much less win it. to get your head straight you got to forget about the doctor lady.
speaker1: not all my thinking occurs below the belt. i actually stand for a few things beside where my next romantic interlude is coming from.
speaker2: then you got no problem telling the doctor lady you can't teach her no more till after the open.

speaker1: that would make an issue of something that ain't an issue. besides, i'm focused. 
speaker1: i mean, this is my quest!
speaker2: ahhh... your quest... chingaso...
speaker1: this is where i stand up for all the little guys everywhere who've had their fill of soulless robots like david simms --
speaker2: he may be a soulless robot but he's a rich, happy soulless robot with a beautiful doctor lady girlfriend who's got you by the huevos -- besides, how is getting into the u.s. open gonna change what she thinks about you?
speaker1: it'll prove to her that i'm not who she thinks i am.
speaker2: but you are who she thinks you are! look, i don't bet on a horse with a hard-on.
speaker1: hard-on?! hard-on?! hard-on?! here, touch me, feel -- i don't feel nothing! here!

speaker1: man, ever since i let her dump my she just can't resist kicking me in it. 
speaker2: maybe you should treat her more like a lady.
speaker1: after she ran off with that dallas banker?
speaker2: she did that after you let her dump you. it wouldn't kill you just once to tell her she's beautiful, she can dance, she's

speaker1: sexy. 
speaker2: romeo... are you sweet on doreen?
speaker3: no more'n you are for that doctor lady.
speaker2: great, romeo, just great... just when i need you to be my friend and coach, you go get all gooey about one of my ex-girlfriends who just happens to be our boss.
speaker3: anybody comes to me for help on their love life about women is already too far gone.
speaker2: i don't recall asking you for advice. women are tougher to figure out than a feathered one iron from a tight lie --
speaker3: actually if you open the club face a hair and play it off your back foot --
speaker2: shut up, romeo... i wasn't really seeking golf tips...
speaker3: it's all i'm good for -- but you can count on me for that, at least.
speaker2: how far off the back foot?
speaker3: 'bout three balls...

speaker1: i'm ready to charge forth in pursuit of my mythic destiny and i can't get time off work to do it. 
speaker2: i'm no expert, but it seems to me that the `pursuit of a person's mythic destiny' is not the sort of thing that a person needs to get off a five dollar an hour job in order to do...
speaker1: i'm stuck. buried. my life's a plugged lie in a kakuyi bunker with a tight pin position on a green with a stimp meter reading of thirteen. i need help. i need advice. i need counsel... i need a shrink.
speaker2: you don't know no shrinks.
speaker1: i know one.
speaker2: not the doctor lady?
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: you can't ask advice about the woman you're trying to hose from the woman you're trying to hose!
speaker1: hose?! hose?! get your mouth outta the gutter! this is a matter of the heart!

speaker1: i didn't do anything! 
speaker2: i know... i know... wait in there.

speaker1: roy... are you okay? 
speaker2: i need therapy.
speaker1: obviously.
speaker2: what do i do? i mean... to do it ... therapy... i mean, how do i start doing... it.
speaker1: in parlance you might understand, just kick back and let the big dog eat.

speaker1: okay, okay, let 'er rip... suppose there's this guy. he's standing on the shore of a big, wide river. and the river's fulla all manner of disaster, like alligators and piranhas and currents and eddies, and most people won't even go down there to dip a toe. but on the other side of the river's a million dollars, and on this side of the river there's a rowboat. i guess my question's this: what would possess the guy on shore to swim for it? 
speaker2: he's an
speaker1: no. he's a of a swimmer, see. his problem's more like... why's he always gotta rise to the challenge?
speaker2: he's a juvenile
speaker1: you don't understand what i mean by the river.
speaker2: we're talking about you and what you like to call your inner demons, roy, that human frailty you like to blather about, not some mytho-poetic metaphor you come up with in a feeble and transparent effort to do yourself credit.
speaker1: y'mean you're gonna make me feel lousy? i came here to feel better -- what kinda therapy is this?
speaker2: you don't have any inner demons. what you have is inner crapola, inner debris -- garbage, loose wires, horseshit in staggering amounts.

speaker1: i ain't just some jerk driving- range pro who drinks too much booze and eats too few vegetables. 
speaker2: you're being defensive -- cut to the chase and tell me why you're here.
speaker1: well... i'm smitten with a woman.
speaker2: that's good. is she smitten with you?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker2: have you asked her out?
speaker1: she's seeing a guy. i don't know how serious it is, but the guy's a real horse's ass, in my opinion...
speaker2: if you shared your heart with this woman -- maybe asked her out to dinner -- then it would force these issues out in the open.
speaker1: i'm afraid she'll say no.
speaker2: ahh... so what you're saying is that all your speeches about swimming across the shark infested waters are really just about your golf game -- not about your personal life.
speaker1: christ, i didn't know we were gonna get into my personal life!
speaker2: this is therapy!
speaker1: well, jeez, i know, but i didn't think it was that kind of therapy...

speaker1: what were you expecting? ann landers? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: look, it's rather simple. those risks that you love to take on the golf course, the risks you talk so passionately and poetically about -- you need to apply those risks to your personal life with the same passion.
speaker2: i should ask this woman out.
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: i should risk coming right over the top and snap-hooking it out of bounds left.
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: risk hitting it a little thin and --
speaker1: for godsakes, roy, that's enough!
speaker2: right. sorry.
speaker1: s'okay... look, just walk up to this woman, wherever she is, look her in the eye with those big beautiful green eyes of yours, let down your guard and don't try to be smooth or cool or whatever -- just be honest and take the risk -- you can do it! tin cup rises with new confidence. he does several deep breathing exercises, trying to work up the courage. she stares at him. and he walks right up to her.
speaker2: dr. griswold -- i think i'm in

speaker1: love with you. 
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: from the moment i first saw you i knew i was through with bar girls and strippers and motorcycle chicks, and when you started talking i was smitten and i'm smitten more every day i think about you -- and the fact that you know i'm full of crapola only makes you more attractive to me because usually i can people but i can't you and in addition, most women i'm thinking about how to get into their pants from day one but with you i'm just thinking about how to get into your heart -- molly was clue-less. she just stares.
speaker2: my
speaker3: stunned, eh? so what about dinner and we can talk about `us' and if we have a future and how to drop that horse's boyfriend of yours --
speaker2: roy, slow down --
speaker3: hey! i just hit a eight degree driver off a cart path here, i'm staring eagle in the face --
speaker2: this is a terrible mistake!
speaker3: i'm acting from the heart so i can't make a mistake?! right?

speaker1: wrong. aw, i am one horrible shrink... jeez... i didn't know you were talking about me. 
speaker2: would your advice have been different?
speaker1: session's over. you better leave.
speaker2: i'm gonna qualify for the u.s. open and kick your boyfriend's ass.
speaker1: please leave.
speaker2: whatever you think of me, you should know that your boyfriend hates old people, children, and dogs.

speaker1: dollar bills... 
speaker1: dollar bills...

speaker1: how'd it go with the doctor lady, boss? 
speaker2: if she was a par three, i'd'a made a nine.
speaker1: stroke and distance, eh?
speaker2: dollar bills...
speaker3: what's he saying?
speaker1: dollar bills. his divots got to look like dollar bills. 'course moe norman hits divots like bacon strips 'cuz he come over the top, but that's gettin' too technical for you.
speaker3: see that, boys? he's hitting dollar bills. tightening his game.
speaker3: uh, something us shitheels want you to know, tin cup, is uh, well, we been to see doreen, and we told her we'd stage a customer's strike if she didn't give you time off to win the open.
speaker2: you perverts did that for me?
speaker4: we believe in you, man.

speaker1: and if you get past the local qualifier, we gonna sponsor you. 
speaker2: thanks, boys -- a man couldn't have better friends. now move the back and shut the up. you're messing up my concentration.

speaker1: a knock at the door. he's startled. 
speaker2: debt collection? process server?

speaker1: ex-flame? i'm clean. who is it? 
speaker2: you've got a beautiful swing --
speaker3: -- and big, beautiful green eyes -- i'm a beautiful guy.
speaker2: i came here to apologize.
speaker3: for what?
speaker2: well, i counseled you, you did exactly what i said, and i just... poured cold water over your effort. i didn't get it. i'm a terrible shrink, probably... i should've never got out of real estate -- actually i should never have left ohio for that cowboy in armarillo -- have you ever been to amarillo?
speaker3: a cowboy?
speaker2: it's not as romantic when you're actually with one -- a wrangler, y'know -- so of course the oil man in dallas looked great after that -- i don't know what i was thinking... that's when i went to the gulf and ended up in, well, trailer sales and then all those condos in corpus christi -- the bottom fell outta the market and i needed a new gig --
speaker3: a new gig?
speaker2: therapy. i took all the classes.

speaker1: i'm licensed, y'know. oh mind if i smoke? anyway, i'm flattered you asked me out. i can't accept because i am involved with david and i haven't seen any evidence that he treats old people, kids or dogs badly. 
speaker2: i got a little carried away, i guess. i shoulda just layed up, made my par, and moved on.
speaker3: look, i want to propose something -- as long as you understand this is professional -- we're not going out together --
speaker2: tee it up.
speaker3: i can help you with the mental aspects of the game. you've got romeo to be your swing doctor, i can be your head doctor.
speaker2: but you said you were a lousy shrink?
speaker3: well, yeah... i'll improve.
speaker2: i got no money to pay for you.
speaker3: i'll trade my services for golf lessons and help you through the qualifying. if you get into the open, well, you're on your own.
speaker2: you'll be with david.
speaker3: yeah...

speaker1: ... the next group... roy mcavoy, salome, texas... who will be playing with... 
speaker2: how ya feelin', boss?
speaker3: i'm feelin' like par's a bad score, podnuh -- fifty-eight's within the realm!
speaker2: the doctor lady's here --
speaker4: standing not far from the regulars.
speaker3: didn't i tell ya? she's gonna be your guru partner. you handle my swing mechanics and she handles my brain mechanics.
speaker2: long as you keep your out of it --
speaker3: me an' the 'big guy' have an understanding. he's gonna lie low till i get in the open -- then...
speaker2: the big dog'll eat?
speaker3: the big dog'll hunt, that's for sure...

speaker1: i just have to help him keep his head on straight -- 
speaker2: if you can, you be the first.
speaker1: he does have the occasional tendency towards self-destruction it seems.
speaker2: it ain't occasional and it ain't no tendency -- it's a fact of life that he gonna blow sky high, it's just a matter of when and how fast can the pieces be put back together. behind that twinkle in his eyes is nitroglycerin.
speaker3: quiet in the gallery! a man's trying to do his job.
speaker3: got my 'a' game with me today, folks... you're in for a real treat!
speaker1: i find him mildly attractive when he's obnoxious and arrogant like this --

speaker1: dollar bills... 
speaker1: nutted it...
speaker1: ben hogan? who's he?

speaker1: you the man, tin cup! you the man! 
speaker2: they bugging you, boss -- i can shut 'em up?
speaker3: the way i'm swinging today,

speaker1: nothing bugs me -- except insufficient applause. gimme the lumber. 
speaker2: i think two iron's safer.
speaker3: i said i want the big dog.
speaker2: tight par five, out of bounds left... you don't want to hit driver.
speaker3: i'm not going left of those trees. i'm going over those trees... with a little draw. that way i get home in two. that way i'm putting for eagle.
speaker2: you don't need eagle to qualify! you need to get used to playing smart -- no mistakes wins the open.
speaker3: qualify? i want the course record! now gimme the lumber!
speaker2: you not going to listen to me? you don't care i'm trying to help?
speaker3: i think i'm gonna get penalized for slow play if you don't give me that driver.
speaker2: you a head case, boss, always were, always will be.

speaker1: then let's ask the head doctor. dr. griswold? dr. griswold, should i hit the big dog or the two? 
speaker2: soliciting shot selection advice is a two-stroke penalty.
speaker3: trust your feelings, roy.
speaker4: ... go ahead. hit the driver.
speaker1: i changed my mind. gimme the three wood.
speaker4: you can't clear the dogleg with a three wood.
speaker1: wanna bet?
speaker1: guess i'm going with the safe shot, boys.

speaker1: romeo stares, aghast. tin cup merely shrugs. 
speaker2: sometimes i fan that two iron. better gimme the three.
speaker3: is this normal behavior for him?
speaker4: the word 'normal' and him don't collide in the same sentence too often.
speaker2: sometimes i catch that three a little thin...
speaker2: and i've hooked my four iron... ... and hit flyers with the five... ... and shanked the six... ... and skulled the eight... ... and fatted the nine... ... and chili-dipped the wedge... ... and bladed the sand wedge... ... and then there's mister three-putt...

speaker1: broken clubs at his feet. 
speaker2: but the seven iron, i never miss the seven iron. it's the only truly safe club in my bag.
speaker2: you happy, romeo?
speaker3: no, boss, i'm tired... my life's too short to spend it watching you fall apart. i done it too many times.
speaker2: what's this? you're quitting? first sign of adversity, you're quitting? anyone want to bet me i can't par in with a seven iron? doc? take the bet?
speaker4: roy -- just shut up and hit the ball.

speaker1: beer for everybody. 
speaker2: you the man, tin cup!
speaker3: thanks, boys, what'ya think was my best shot -- the seven iron on twelve, the seven iron on fourteen, or maybe it was the bunker shot on eighteen which, to my recollection was a -- seven iron? much laughter. this is the tin cup they love.
speaker4: you definitely the man!
speaker3: how'd i do, doc?
speaker5: you failed miserably.

speaker1: what?! i parred the back nine with a seven iron, i qualified for the regionals, i -- 
speaker2: your job is not just to qualify for the open, it's to prepare for the open. my job is to help you prepare.
speaker1: you said to 'trust my feelings'!
speaker2: i didn't know you felt like breaking all the clubs in your bag.
speaker3: he didn't break the seven!
speaker4: he smoked that seven, brother --
speaker2: from what i understand, the u.s. open is the most difficult golf tournament in the world played under the most difficult circumstances with the greatest players -- winning it means controlling yourself, managing your emotions, staying cool, not getting in a contest with your caddie who, incidentally, quit.
speaker1: he always quits, he always comes back.
speaker2: nonetheless, from the mental aspect -- which is my domain -- you have regressed and are fumbling somewhere between delusion and denial.
speaker1: 'regression, delusion, denial'? you gotta use all this psychological language?
speaker2: i'm a psychologist.

speaker1: tin cup turns to the regulars for support. 
speaker2: have a bad day, roy?
speaker3: hi, honey...
speaker4: i shot 65 -- parred the backside with a seven iron.
speaker5: why?
speaker3: that's the question -- why?
speaker6: 'cause he broke all his other clubs.
speaker7: snapped 'em in two -- even the putter.
speaker5: roy, i'm on your side here. we go way back... i hope you get into the open, but if you don't play under control, you'll get slaughtered. good players shoot 82 in the open. you can't always go for it.
speaker4: swear to doc, this guy is not who you think.
speaker6: it's a well-known fact that if a camera's not on him, he treats old people and children like dirt.
speaker7: and dogs.
speaker4: yeah, don't forget the dogs.
speaker3: i think we should go, david.

speaker1: i think so... 
speaker2: you ever shoot par with a seven iron?
speaker1: it never occurred to me to try. c'mon, let's go. the car's over here....
speaker2: i'll bet you a thousand dollars against my car that i can beat you in any game -- any game, you name it -- with a seven iron.
speaker1: this is ridiculous.
speaker2: you a coward? you gonna lay up the way you did at the masters last year?
speaker3: chickie, chickie, chickie...
speaker1: any game, i name it?
speaker4: oh, come on, david --
speaker1: i just want to teach him a lesson.
speaker4: why do men insist on measuring their dicks?
speaker2: awright, awright! let's measure,

speaker1: right now! 
speaker2: for sakes, i wasn't being literal! david, let's go.
speaker3: molly, trust me on this one. call it part of his mental preparation for the open, where the rough is deep, the greens are slick, and the nerves are shattered. i'll take the bet.
speaker2: oh, jeez...
speaker4: awright! what's the game?
speaker3: one swing each. who can hit the longest seven iron --
speaker4: it's a lock! i hit the seven like john daly hits a three!
speaker4: from right here, okay?
speaker3: fine with me.
speaker2: you guys are really being childish --
speaker3: molly, leave this one to me.
speaker4: dr. griswold, i know what i'm doing.

speaker1: dollar bills... 
speaker2: them signs are at least thirty yards farther -- that ball musta gone 220...
speaker1: that ball's about 2-2-7... toed it a bit... but it'll do...
speaker3: nearly 230 with a seven! pureed it, baby, he pureed it!
speaker1: take a minute to limber up, fine with me --
speaker4: don't need to.
speaker1: take your jacket off?
speaker4: no, no, i'm fine.
speaker1: you're gonna need to muscle up, big guy -- give it the old steroid jerk... simms is cool as ice. he smiles, then moves around to the other side of the ball, suddenly facing away from the course. this baffles everyone.

speaker1: what the you doin'? wha's this? 
speaker2: she shrugs and smiles.

speaker1: you the man, roy... 
speaker2: you definitely the man...

speaker1: bring out those bills, boys, if ya wanta see a little more of sammantha! 
speaker2: hey, honey...

speaker1: hey, honey... 
speaker2: i heard you qualified for the regionals -- why you so down?
speaker1: i broke my clubs -- don't ask why, my caddie's off at me, i lost my wheels in a sucker bet, and my shrink thinks i'm a fool -- 'cause i probably am...
speaker2: you're seeing a therapist?!
speaker1: yeah, what's wrong with that?
speaker2: only way you'd ever go into therapy was if the shrink was a doll and you were trying to get her into the rack --
speaker1: you're so shallow. the good doctor and i are dealing with my regression and denial --
speaker2: oh, tin cup, what a crock. you got a hard-on.
speaker3: you `tin cup'? won the local with a seven iron?
speaker1: that's me.
speaker3: mcavoy? the tin cup mcavoy?
speaker2: there's only one -- thank
speaker1: yeah. you looking for a game?

speaker1: no, but i'd sure like to show you my grip... 
speaker2: how long have you been seeing this `good doctor'?
speaker3: excuse me, dor', the man's having trouble with his grip --
speaker1: see, i used to play a real weak grip. but you look at couples, he's got a left hand way over here...
speaker3: no, grip it like this, so you're holding on with the last two fingers of your left hand.
speaker1: see that? tin cup mcavoy says you grip a golf club like this, with these two fingers.
speaker2: roy? roy? tin cup? hello?
speaker3: the grip and address are about 90 percent of the golf swing, so pay attention here...
speaker4: when you're done with him, can i ask you about my club position at address?

speaker1: am i doing something wrong? 
speaker2: no, honey, you ain't -- but a healthy woman's only got two choices in this world of ours... either fall in love with another woman -- or take up golf.
speaker3: ... now the stronger right-hand grip can help ya draw the ball, which i plan to do at the regionals next week in tulsa... just shift the hand over a little bit... blah, blah, blah...

speaker1: we get through the next 36 holes and we in the open! 
speaker2: i got the yips and i ain't even teeing it up...
speaker3: nothing to worry about, boys --
speaker4: but you ain't got romeo?
speaker3: don't need him till the open -- he'll be back.

speaker1: but you don't got the doctor lady? 
speaker2: oh no, i got her. right here.
speaker2: she can't travel to arizona for the regionals -- she's got a busy practice, y'know... so she made me this tape to play while i'm out there... keep me calm, cool, and collected...
speaker3: what's on it?
speaker2: a little james taylor, little george jones, little kahlil gibran, little this, little that... and a lotta the voice of the smartest chick i ever met.
speaker3: the good doctor herself...
speaker1: can we hear it or is it personal?
speaker2: since when is therapy personal, eh?

speaker1: ... `private victories precede public victories. you cannot harvest a crop before you plant it...' kaboom! he launches a tee shot down the middle. 
speaker1: ... `how you view the problem, is the problem...' 66 tin cup chips into the cup. 66 67 tin cup drains putt after putt with confidence. 67

speaker1: ...`you can't have the fruits without the roots...' and tin cup just smiles and taps in. 
speaker2: i think three under will qualify.
speaker3: a little more confidence there, earl...
speaker2: i wish romeo was here. i ain't cut out to do this. i'm a spectator by nature. an observer.
speaker3: shut up and hand me the big dog.
speaker2: you got it.
speaker3: the force is with me, pods...

speaker1: we need this one big time, earl, whattya think? 
speaker2: looks straight to me.
speaker1: straight?! thing's a roller coaster breaks four ways and dies at the hole -- you're blind!
speaker2: actually, i am blind... 20-60 in one eye -- and that's the good eye...
speaker1: i got a blind caddie... just hold the stick, earl -- and be sure to pull it out...
speaker3: ... when the going gets tough, the, the, the, whirrrrrrrrrrr, the, the...
speaker1: doc? doc? earl, earl -- the tape's jammed!
speaker4: are you okay?
speaker1: yeah, yeah... i'm flying solo now...
speaker4: what?
speaker1: i gotta make this putt.

speaker1: obviously. 
speaker2: ... just pick the line, feel the speed -- bad timing, doc, jesus...
speaker2: like a million others you made in your life, roy. just see it going in. just feel it... right in the back of the jar... just pull the trigger, you pussy...
speaker2: pull the stick, earl, pull it!
speaker2: choking dogs die!

speaker1: romes! you've come back! you shoulda been there, romes, i drained a 30-foot snake to qualify! earl gave me a straight read -- the thing broke half a dozen times -- missed ya, pods! 
speaker1: okay, don't talk to me -- but you're still my guy... it's a little late to be off! we're in the open! you and me!
speaker1: awright, be that way -- -- say... has molly been around?
speaker2: i knew you had the hots for her.
speaker1: what's this? garbo speaks? of course i have the hots for her and i'm doing a good job of keeping things platonic and professional till i kick simms' and show her i ain't who she thinks i am because, in fact, i am who she thinks i am but if i win the open i won't be.
speaker2: well, i don't think her nor me nor the of golf his self can keep you from blowing up in the open...
speaker1: i made it this far! i just got to hold it together for 72 more

speaker1: holes! 
speaker2: there's a lotta triple bogeys out there waiting to grab your ass.
speaker3: you're complaining again! romeo's back! whining, bitching, off -- you're my man!
speaker2: you didn't fall in love with earl to be your caddie?
speaker3: he was a wheezing heart attack waiting to happen -- cost me three strokes a side... i carried my bag the last four holes. i love ol' earl but i need you.
speaker2: you don't love me?
speaker3: i love you, too, it!
speaker2: as much as earl?
speaker3: i don't know! yes, yes, as much as earl -- more than earl!
speaker2: am i special?
speaker3: if you can remove the sexual connotations and overlay a golf theme, romeo -- i am your juliet.
speaker2: muy bien, julietta. in that case -- i am your caddy once again.

speaker1: podnuh. 
speaker1: awright... now that we got that outta the way, i'm gonna hit me some and start oilin' that sweet swing o' mine for the big boys...
speaker1: nobody heard from molly, eh?
speaker2: you got it bad, don't ya?
speaker1: somethin' about that chick...
speaker1: hmmm... little chili dipper there...
speaker2: be sure to do that in the open.
speaker3: concern crosses his face.
speaker1: romeo!

speaker1: i'm watching. 
speaker2: it ain't no chili dipper.
speaker1: yeah, boss, you got the 's' word.
speaker2: what am i doing wrong?
speaker1: shanks are like a virus -- they just show up. nobody can figure 'em out.
speaker2: romes! something's terribly wrong. what's your guess?!
speaker1: it's the woman.
speaker2: i thought you said it was a virus?
speaker1: a woman can have the same effect.
speaker2: what do i do?
speaker1: keep swinging...

speaker1: never thought it would happen... 
speaker2: the shanks is for us mortals, not

speaker1: for the great ones... 
speaker2: esta muy feo... muy, muy feo...
speaker3: y'know why they named this game 'golf'? 'cause the words and were already taken!

speaker1: hiya, fellas! 
speaker2: what is this? everybody like to watch a train wreck?!
speaker1: he's in one of his pleasant moods, i see --
speaker3: he's got the shanks. we got the makings of a greek tragedy here.
speaker1: quit whining and get over here. we've got something for you.
speaker2: unless it's a 'swing thought,' i'm not interested...
speaker1: we're here to sponsor you in the

speaker1: open. me an' the boys have pooled our resources and come up with some cash so you can look and feel as spiffy as all them big-name pros. 
speaker2: but i got the shanks --
speaker3: yeah, and you obviously still have a hard-on for the doctor chick -- your face is all screwed up and tight like you haven't been laid in awhile --
speaker2: is it really that obvious?
speaker3: it's not a good look for you. roy, your heart is not the only organ you wear on your sleeve. there's a certain, vulgar appeal to your transparency.
speaker4: c'mon, tin cup, we're trying to make you a presentation --
speaker2: awright, awright...
speaker3: i got the golden tassel to sponsor you at the open.
speaker2: you expect me to pack that around?
speaker5: i'm carrying the bag.
speaker3: it's worth four hundred dollars endorsement money to you --

speaker1: see, dewey got you first state banking of salome, and clint got you short-haul trucking and i got you brink and brown sanitation -- 
speaker2: i'm being sponsored by a sewage disposal system?
speaker1: we call it human resources management, roy, please...
speaker3: i've got wally's smokehouse for ya -- kind of a nice sign...
speaker4: and since i couldn't get the post office to come aboard, me and my girl friend muriel's gonna buy a fan club patch you can put anywhere you want.
speaker2: i'm supposed to wear this
speaker3: this is us, man. you can't win without us.
speaker5: you're the pride of salome!
speaker2: hell, i won't even make the cut!
speaker5: what happened to your confidence?
speaker6: he's shanking his love life so he's shanking the golf ball.
speaker5: must be true love.
speaker6: he's a goner.

speaker1: and they're behind him all the way. 
speaker2: look, everybody, this is great. i'm sorry i'm acting so pathetic but my swing's never abandoned me before. i just need a little time to work it out.
speaker3: anything you want --
speaker4: give him some room, boys --
speaker2: maybe it's my grip... maybe i'm opening up too soon... too late... coming over the top... no, dropping underneath... oh, sweet why have you abandoned me?
speaker5: you want me to stay, boss?
speaker2: i need to be alone.
speaker5: you got it.

speaker1: my 
speaker2: aarghh...
speaker1: roy...
speaker2: dr. griswold... a moment of pathetic silence, then: molly starts laughing -- he is destroyed.
speaker2: the therapist laughs at her patient? is that how it works? a man is laid bare before and he's the of the cosmic joke?
speaker1: i'm sorry, i just...
speaker2: some of this might actually

speaker1: work, y'know... i mean i think there's something to this hat with the pendulum golf ball thing... may be on to something here... 
speaker2: oh, roy, jesus... quoting yourself, 'it is the paraphernalia for lost and desperate souls.'
speaker3: well, a lost and desperate soul stands before you. i assume i have the confidentiality of doctor-client privilege in regards to this outfit?
speaker2: of course you do. what happened?
speaker3: i got the shanks.
speaker2: are you taking penicillin?
speaker3: it can't be treated! it's much worse than whatever you thought it was. there's a glitch in my swing.
speaker2: so it's in romeo's department?
speaker3: he thinks it's your department -- says it's a head thing.
speaker2: oh. well. i just came over to congratulate you on the regionals and return your car -- david says he doesn't want it, just wanted to make a point with you -- but i suppose we could have a therapy session right here and now

speaker1: i don't want therapy. i want you. 
speaker2: roy... i gotta get some air --
speaker1: look at me -- well, not right at the moment -- but listen to me. you're with the wrong guy. i'm the right guy. everyone tells me my face is all screwed up tight as a drum 'cause i've been crazy about you from the day you showed up wearing this stupid stuff and the whole thing has both inspired me to get here on the verge of greatness yet it's also caused me to get the shanks which could humiliate me in front of a zillion people. such is life. so dump that phony and come to the open in my corner -- you can delay your romantic urges, which i know are lurking in there among the excess of brain cells you possess -- until the appropriate time... tell me you're not at least moderately attracted to me. tin cup stands there with the ball still dangling from his hat, the leather straps, the bucket, the arrows -- for the moment he's forgotten how stupid he looks.
speaker2: you have moments.
speaker1: tell me which ones are my moments and i'll try to duplicate them.
speaker2: this is a moment. you look great.
speaker1: now?!
speaker2: utterly exposed, completely vulnerable, the inner child trying to get out.

speaker1: my inner child needs spanking. 
speaker2: you always liked that part about saddling up, the smell of leather

speaker1: c'mon, let's have a drink. call it therapy. charge me 75 an hour. little cuervo, little freud... 
speaker2: naw... i gotta go. oh, i don't have a car, i need a ride.

speaker1: i know a spot along the river's great to watch the sunset? 
speaker2: not tonight.
speaker1: 'not tonight' means maybe some other night?
speaker2: i didn't mean it like that.
speaker1: consciously you didn't mean it like that -- but how about unconsciously, you're the expert, did you mean it unconsciously?
speaker2: unconsciously, roy, i don't have a clue what i'm talking about.
speaker1: i feel we're making progress.

speaker1: good luck in the open, roy. 
speaker2: put your money on me, doc, the odds are fabulous and knows i'm overdue...
speaker3: watching tin cup careen away in his caddy.

speaker1: you got to relax, boss -- 
speaker2: goin' to the u.s. open with the shanks. gonna be chili dipping my way around the course on worldwide television... sure, relax.
speaker1: i'm gonna get rid of them shanks for ya. no hay problema.
speaker2: molly and i are circling each other... i can feel it...
speaker1: she the enemy, boss.
speaker2: naw...

speaker1: well she wakin' up with the enemy -- same thing. 
speaker2: tell me something, romes -- the absolute truth -- you think i can go 72 holes without falling apart.
speaker2: you heard me! i don't want no do you think i can do it?
speaker1: i don't know, boss, i just don't know.

speaker1: yeah... and the first mexican... 
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: como esta, amigo. i have with me one of the legendary ball strikers in the history of golf -- the security guard strains to see in.
speaker2: who's that? mr. crenshaw? that you? mr. price, mr. norman? no?
speaker3: roy 'tin cup' mcavoy. representing the great american southwest.
speaker2: do we have a... mccormack... on the list.
speaker1: mcavoy -- roy mcavoy -- he's a legend!
speaker2: we got over 150 legends in this tournament. sorry.
speaker2: call the police.
speaker1: police?
speaker3: there's a mistake here, fellas!

speaker1: we'll throw your in jail right now, pal -- there's a lotta lunatics here and we don't take chances... 
speaker2: what's the problem here?
speaker3: this clown says he's in the open...
speaker4: hiya, david... nice sweater.
speaker3: he's not on the list.
speaker2: hiya, roy... welcome to the big leagues... here ya go, charlie, his name's right here. they spelled your name wrong -- easy mistake with a total unknown.
speaker3: let him in.
speaker4: which way to the practice range?

speaker1: he said he was a 'legend'? 
speaker2: oh he is... he's a very big name at a driving range in salome, texas...

speaker1: look! right there! fred couples... and ray floyd! 
speaker2: look at these balls. brand new titleists. lookit 'em, every one a brand new titleist. sneak a few in the bag when you get a chance. we swipe enough free we might even pay for this fiasco.
speaker1: you think it would be inappropriate to ask ray floyd for an autograph?
speaker2: i think it's a dead giveaway, romes... but if i still got the shanks we're gonna be found out real fast...
speaker1: hit the seven iron. you never miss the seven...

speaker1: good thought, pods... 
speaker1: dollar bills... and he swings.
speaker1: who hit that shot? anybody see? he addresses another one. and swings.
speaker2: a little thin, boss.
speaker1: a little thin?! i still got the shanks! everybody's watching! christ, simms is here...
speaker2: maybe we should work on putting. ya can't shank a putt.
speaker1: if you're the mexican mac o'grady, romes, you gotta figure out why i'm still shanking the ball. what's the problem? i'm catching it on the hosel, right? moving my head? i'm laying off it, i'm pronating, i'm supinating, i'm clearing too early, i'm clearing too late, i'm off plane, i ain't dropping in -- oh, my swing feels like an unfolding lawn chair.
speaker2: you got a virus in your brain. i

speaker1: got to kill the brain to kill the virus. 
speaker2: anything. kill me now!
speaker3: put all your change in your right pocket.
speaker3: very good. now tie your left shoelace in a double knot.
speaker3: esta bueno. now, turn your hat around backwards and put a blue tee behind your right ear...
speaker2: i'll look like a fool.
speaker3: what you think you look like hitting those squirrelly chili peppers up freddy couples' ass, eh? do what i say or i quit.
speaker2: okay, okay...
speaker3: perfect... now hit a seven iron into that tree over there. you're ready.
speaker2: how'd i do that?
speaker3: you ain't thinking about shanking, you ain't thinking about the doctor lady, you ain't thinking period. you just lookin' like a fool and hittin' it pure -- your natural state.
speaker2: you.

speaker1: you cured. 
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: that's it. your brain was getting in the way.
speaker2: that's rarely been a problem.
speaker1: well, i should recommend you go work on your short game but i think it's better if you go get drunk instead.
speaker2: get drunk?
speaker1: yeah. you always play better when you're wasted.

speaker1: it's three in the morning, romes, what time i tee off? 
speaker2: seven-o-five... first group off...
speaker1: that's four hours from now?
speaker2: you're drinking till five... c'mon, c'mon, have another -- get you in shape --

speaker1: with the honor in the 7:08 pairing, from salome, texas, mr. roy mcavoy. a half-dozen people clap, and -- 
speaker2: no time for a bucket, eh?
speaker3: almost missed the starting time trying to get you off the floor, boss. you don't handle the hooch like you used to...

speaker1: i seen this hole on tv. hit the big dog down the chute -- 
speaker2: no, i've learned my lesson. gonna play it safe, smart, conservative. fairways and greens. hand me the two iron.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: thought of the day is -- `be humble.'

speaker1: eighty-three. well, you humble now. 
speaker2: eleven bogeys and seven pars. i didn't make a three. i didn't make one goddam three all day.
speaker1: you weren't trying to make threes. you were trying to avoid making thirteen.
speaker2: i was hungover!
speaker1: maybe that was a coaching error on my part.
speaker2: thanks, amigo...

speaker1: david simms is interviewed. 
speaker2: i'm the last person who expected me to come out of the blocks with a sixty-seven and lead the open... it's been a long time since i played this game with the fire and determination you need to win...
speaker3: the anti-christ shoots 67, you believe it?
speaker4: ol' anti-christ got a hot putter...
speaker2: ... you see, this game is all about integrity and tradition and honor...
speaker3: what? it's about cheating and racism and
speaker4: easy, boss...

speaker1: so tomorrow i'll just go out there and try to make some good swings and, lord willing, maybe i can put up another good number. thank you. 
speaker2: thank you, david simms, a brilliant opening round 67 to take the lead.

speaker1: david! david! over here! 
speaker2: gotta go.
speaker3: excuse me, mr. simms! can you sign an autograph for our grandson?
speaker2: can't you see i'm busy?! i'm working! this is my office! do i come to your office and ask you for an autograph?! jesus... he practically stiff-arms them as he passes, heading up to the clubhouse. they stand there in shock.
speaker2: who the these people think they are...
speaker4: she speaks to herself.
speaker5: old people, children, and dogs...

speaker1: got lucky out there... 
speaker2: great start, simmsy...
speaker1: hey, tin cup -- heard you put a monster number up there...
speaker3: coulda been worse...
speaker1: i played in the pro-am with some movie star shot 82 here once... how did a great ball- striker like you, a `legend,' manage to shoot an 83?
speaker3: i missed a four foot putt on the eighteen for an 82, that's how...
speaker1: it ain't like playing some muni track in brownsville, is it?
speaker4: does, `integrity, tradition, and honor' include kicking a man when he's down?
speaker1: oh, mol', this is just guy stuff, bar talk, part of the game -- no offense, right, cup?
speaker4: this man still has a lot of good golf shots in his system --
speaker3: molly, it's okay, go away... i don't need any attention right

speaker1: now... 
speaker2: you the guy shot 83?!
speaker3: david, i'll bet you a hundred dollars right now that roy here can hit a ball -- -- from right here to... through that door to the patio...
speaker4: molly, please...
speaker3: and give me a vodka tonic with a twist --
speaker5: molly, really, this isn't...
speaker3: roy?
speaker4: i wanta go back to texas...
speaker3: what about the river, the piranha, the immortality? all that you gonna drag your home with an 83? in fact, two hundred says he can hit it through that door, over the patio, into the river, and make that pelican fly off that post.

speaker1: this is ridiculous... 
speaker2: you got that shot, pods, hood the seven, turn it over, start it low, right to left...
speaker3: i'm not leaving till one of you men starts acting in a manly fashion.
speaker1: let's just get this over with.
speaker3: roy?
speaker2: you the man.
speaker4: one swing? four to one odds.
speaker1: i'll make it ten to one. stick it up your ass. i'm leading the open.
speaker3: now we're talking! manly men!

speaker1: hundred yards of water, and a lonely pelican sitting out there in a 15 mile an hour breeze, south by southwest... he'll probably try to shut down a four iron -- no, he's selected his trusty seven iron... 
speaker2: kind of a thin lie...
speaker3: beats all that deep rough you were in today...
speaker4: fore in the grill! fore on the patio! you're the legend, boss...
speaker2: what is this all about?
speaker5: shut up and hit the ball. mccord the ledge still has to be thinking about that brutal, ego-sapping, manhood-robbing eighty-three he buried himself under yesterday. i mean, that's just an avalanche of golf swings, a landslide, a pyroclastic flow --
speaker2: dollar bills...
speaker4: stiff, baby, stiff!

speaker1: 99 a whoop goes up -- and simms storms out. 99 
speaker2: i'm outta here. you're all nuts.
speaker3: i musta been blind thinking you were worth a simmsy! drinks on me, boys! helluva shot, roy!
speaker4: actually i thinned it a little or that pelican'd be flying around with a titleist up his ass...

speaker1: i kinda shanked it, eh? 
speaker2: no, no, no... you were great...
speaker1: tempo is everything...
speaker2: perfection's unobtainable...
speaker1: mighta rushed it on the downswing...

speaker1: come over the top a little... 
speaker2: yeah... well, as walter hagen once said -- 'sex and golf are the only two things you can be bad at and still enjoy...'
speaker1: let's take a mulligan and tee it up again --

speaker1: if anyone was ever to make a run at what is the most storied number in open history, miller's sixty- three, it would be today when the rain has softened the greens, enabling the players to take dead aim at the flags. still, the unswerving courage of an unknown driving range pro from salome has raised that humble journeyman from the ashes of an ignominious eighty-three to wave a mighty fist at the pantheon of golf's immortals. this man, this roy mcavoy has laid siege to the record book by birdieing the first seven holes. a brave par from the water at eight, and a glorious birdie three at the daunting twelfth, another at thirteen... 
speaker1: ... this putt to go ten under for the day...

speaker1: they said on the radio he was ten under -- 
speaker2: shhhh!!!
speaker3: he's shooting the lowest round ever!
speaker4: and eighteen's a par five. a birdie there, he shoots sixty!
speaker5: we gotta go, boys. we gotta get us on a continental trailways and find this place!

speaker1: his adrenalin's gotten the better of him, jim. if he lays up he takes bogey out of play. 
speaker1: but if he knocks this ball in the water he could make seven or eight. and he still has to think about making the cut.
speaker2: well, every golf fan in america is pulling for him.
speaker3: nope.
speaker4: carry, honey! please! carry!

speaker1: what the hell. you ride 'er till she bucks you or you don't ride at all. i can save par from here. 
speaker2: up an' down...

speaker1: how do you go from shooting an eighty-three one day to a record- breaking sixty-two the next? 
speaker2: well, it wasn't from clean living...
speaker1: if you had to do it again, would you still go for the green on eighteen?
speaker2: yeah. and i'll go for it tomorrow and i'll go for it sunday, cuz i didn't come here to play for no second.

speaker1: gimme the three wood. 
speaker2: there's wind up there.
speaker1: i know.

speaker1: well, he hasn't shown an ounce of fear all day. 
speaker2: this isn't courage, jim. this is inexperience, pure and simple.

speaker1: tin cup steps up to his shot. 
speaker2: this is for venturi, up there in the booth, thinking i should lay up... dollar bills...

speaker1: that's a long ways. gimme another ball. 
speaker2: roy...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's a water hazard. you go up there and take a drop. try to save par like you did yesterday.
speaker1: you're right. what the was i thinking?

speaker1: i saved par, didn't i? 
speaker2: i'm just trying to understand your thinking. you were in the same spot on eighteen yesterday without a headwind and you --
speaker1: you don't think i can knock it on from there?
speaker2: it seemed like a low-percentage shot.
speaker1: so am i! look at me. i'm playing for... ... rio grande short-haul trucking, brink and brown sanitation, first state bank of salome, wally's smokehouse... you think a guy like me bothers to think about the percentages? --

speaker1: i've got some money from the pelican bet -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- get ready for the final round. 
speaker2: nothing to celebrate yet. plus these are my people. i'm a waffle house guy -- gotta stay in touch with that...
speaker3: plus he needs his carbohydrates --

speaker1: if the boys from salome was in town -- this is where they'd be... 
speaker2: the legend!
speaker3: damn, we been driving for two days to help you in the last round --
speaker4: saw the winnebago outside -- we're starving...
speaker5: sixty-two! sixty-two!
speaker1: we're home now!
speaker6: you boys a sight for sore eyes. we so sick of guys in blazers and slacks that don't wrinkle. it ain't natural 'round here...
speaker7: congratulations, roy -- we're with you all the way.
speaker1: doreen, meet dr. griswold... er, molly... my shrink --
speaker8: ex-shrink. we're sleeping together now so i can't be his therapist.
speaker7: i knew it.
speaker8: knew what?
speaker7: nothing, dear. good luck. say, i have a little extra cash -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- y'know, kinda get

speaker1: ready for the final round? 
speaker2: this is the waffle house, doreen --
speaker3: hell, i been dreaming of waffles for 1800 miles...
speaker4: they got a waffle house in odessa just about like this...
speaker5: odessa? it's in midland, ain't it?...
speaker6: no, it's in odessa.
speaker7: it just don't get much better than this...
speaker8: you the man, cup, you the man...
speaker9: you're looking particularly lovely this evening... the coif is extraordinary.
speaker10: why thank you... romeo.

speaker1: you nervous about tomorrow? 
speaker2: yeah, i'm nervous. so's everybody else. but i only gotta come and catch simms. sixty-seven guys gotta come and get me...
speaker2: it won't always be like this... y'know... with me... surrounded by all these guys... snoring... a stripper ex-girlfriend on the floor... my caddie sleeping next to her... all of us near broke... won't always be like this...
speaker1: yes it will... yes it will... and it's okay...

speaker1: which one of you is the bookie? 
speaker2: we all are, but earl's the best.

speaker1: what are the odds that roy will win? 
speaker2: vegas has him at ten to one. they're sure he's gonna self-destruct.
speaker1: those sound good to me -- i want you to place a bet for me. five thousand nine hundred dollars on tin cup to win.
speaker3: that's your nestegg.
speaker2: that's a bad idea, honey -- we love him, but he's gonna up --
speaker1: i said put it all on roy. got it?
speaker4: we can't let you --
speaker1: boys --
speaker1: put it all on tin cup.

speaker1: looking a little tight, ledge. 
speaker2: musta got too much sleep last night. how you choking?

speaker1: just got one thought in my head. ten under. that's my number. tin cup looks up, amused by the gamesmanship. 
speaker2: no one's ever been ten under for the open, not even nicklaus.
speaker1: that's right, ledge. not even nicklaus.
speaker3: sorry, roy, can't believe i didn't see you with all that high-priced endorsement you're flaunting.
speaker2: that's always been your problem, dave. you don't think about winning; you just want to look good. thing is, this ain't a beauty pageant. and it ain't a rain-shortened quad cities or a greater greensboro you can back into. this is you'n me, pal. this is match-play, and this time you ain't getting no three shots.

speaker1: fairways and greens, dave... and don't forget to wave as i blow by. 
speaker2: you mean blow up? like you always do? and tin cup moves to the tee.
speaker1: do me a favor. bet me a buck i don't put it in the fairway.
speaker3: i bet you a hundred.
speaker1: okay, good. puts things back in perspective.

speaker1: nice double, roy. 
speaker2: just keep making pars,
speaker1: i'll take eighteen of 'em.
speaker2: and i will own you.

speaker1: oh no, tin cup ran it five feet past. how did he get the name 'tin cup'? 
speaker2: he played catcher on the high school baseball team. the star pitcher had this big-league curve, and not all his pitches hit roy in the mitt. finally, you gotta respect a man's doggedness. you know? the team decided tin cup sounded better than clank.
speaker1: 'clank''s not a good name for a man...

speaker1: our boy's in trouble... ya think he's chokin'? 
speaker2: our boy don't choke. he up but he don't choke...

speaker1: mccord this is definite jail. this is life without parole. his only chance to stage a jail-break is go at the ball left-handed and hope he can somehow snake it back into the fairway, and save par from there. tin cup glares balefully back at mccord. then he walks over to a nearby tree, and surveys the line to the green from it. he walks back for his ball, turns to mccord... and we see that familiar fierceness aflame in tin cup's eyes. 
speaker2: fifty bucks says i knock it on... with a seven iron.
speaker3: that took balls...

speaker1: that's just roy being roy. just wait him out, dave. just make pars. let him make the mistakes. 
speaker2: beauty, dave. par written all over it.

speaker1: so why'd you leave him? 
speaker2: you ever dated a guy who actually believes in soul mates?
speaker1: actually, no.
speaker2: he thinks he's a tough guy, but he's a hopeless romantic.

speaker1: get in there! come on! go down! 
speaker2: he's tied for the lead again! and they're running outta holes!

speaker1: so it's come down to the seventy- second hole of this great championship, and the skill and courage of three texans who have dueled throughout the day for the chance to be crowned open champion... peter jacobsen is on the fairway at 8 under, mcavoy at the 18th tee is tied at minus 8, and david simms trails by one... 
speaker2: jacobsen's laying up. you ain't gonna have that luxury, dave. not if you play to win.

speaker1: mcavoy's hit a perfect drive, ken. 
speaker2: i'm not sure that's good news for mcavoy. with his inexperience, the last thing he needs is an excuse to fool with that water again today.
speaker3: i didn't catch it all.
speaker4: then you got to lay up.
speaker3: so birdie wins it.
speaker3: you or me, dave?
speaker3: he's laying up. birdie to tie, eagle to win, and that gutless wonder's laying up.
speaker4: par to tie, birdie to win... you lay up too, roy. you can make birdie laying up.

speaker1: you know something, romeo? eagle puts me ten under. no one's ever finished an open ten under, not even nicklaus. 
speaker2: you don't need an eagle. birdie wins, par ties. hit the lay up. hole a wedge for eagle.
speaker1: this is everything, ain't it? this is the choice it comes down to. this is our immortality...
speaker2: no time to be thinkin' 'immortality,' cup... time to be thinkin' 7 iron.
speaker3: oh no. this is what always happens. he's going for it.
speaker4: go for it!
speaker3: no! he just needs par to tie! tell him to lay up! he listens to you!
speaker4: go for it, roy! knock it on!
speaker3: this is why we split up -- he always went for it...
speaker4: my problem is i've never been with

speaker1: a man who went for it... 
speaker2: well, honey, he's your guy.
speaker3: he selects the three wood. romeo sighs.

speaker1: good lord, he's going for the green. 
speaker2: this could be tragic.

speaker1: one swing, roy. one good swing. dollar bills... 
speaker1: we're home...
speaker1: ... little gust there, romes...

speaker1: you can still make par from up there -- 
speaker2: she's right, pods, a drop and a stroke, up and down par -- we'll win it in sudden death.
speaker3: i nutted that thing. little gust from the gods cost me...
speaker2: helluva move you put on that sucker, now let's get up there, take the drop, and make our par, tie peter...
speaker3: i can make this shot.
speaker2: not now.
speaker3: now.
speaker3: i'm playing it from here.
speaker1: take your drop and make your par!

speaker1: drop from his original lie. 
speaker2: i don't believe this. he just took himself out of the tournament with that drop. he could have walked up to the hazard line, saved par with a wedge and forced a playoff with jacobsen. now he needs a miracle shot. mccord ken, i'm right behind mcavoy here. and all he said to his caddie was: i can make it across.

speaker1: gimme another ball. 
speaker2: watching behind the ropes.
speaker3: i can't believe he's doing this.
speaker4: i can, honey...
speaker3: he can blow the whole tournament!
speaker4: it's a miracle he lasted this long...

speaker1: he done blew a gasket, boys... 
speaker2: the wheels is definitely falling off now...
speaker3: it was a miracle while it lasted...
speaker4: tin cup swings a third time.

speaker1: this is your last ball, man. if this gets wet, you disqualified. 
speaker2: i can make it across.

speaker1: this is the most painful thing i've ever watched. mccord jim, this is the last ball he has in his bag. if he doesn't finish the hole with it, he can't turn in a card. he'll be disqualified. venturi and nantz cover their eyes. 
speaker2: she's just laughing.
speaker3: you're right, roy, what the hell!
speaker4: you two are made for each other.

speaker1: i gotta hand it to you, roy. when you go down, you go down in flames. 
speaker2: someday you can tell your grandchildren you finished second in the u.s. open... -- just don't tell 'em how.
speaker2: good job, tubbsy... you won it.

speaker1: mccord ledge, i know it's tough to talk right now, but -- 
speaker2: it's not difficult to talk... it's difficult to explain... i coulda laid up and still won. i made a twelve on the last hole of the u.s. open. you know how much money that cost me? mccord cost you a bundle...
speaker2: i gotta get outta here. mccord it was the greatest 12 i ever saw. back to you, jim...
speaker3: greatest 12 i ever saw... you crunched that dog, baby... gorgeous shot, etc...
speaker2: molly, i'm an i gave away the open. the one time in my life i know the play is to hit the lay up -- my whole life and future and career on the line, and i still can't make myself do it. i am a twisted human being and a cautionary tale. and i guess i'm a fool?
speaker4: yes. a magnificent fool...

speaker1: some people don't like west texas but i think it's the most beautiful place on earth... 
speaker2: it has its charms... y'know, by finishing in the top 15 at the open you qualified to be in it next year --
speaker1: damn, i didn't know that...
speaker2: i'm thinking with your game you should go back to the qualifying school, try to get out on tour...
speaker1: then i wouldn't see you...
speaker2: actually, i picked up a whole bunch of new clients at the open. lotta guys on the tour said if i could do that much for you, imagine what i could do for them...
speaker1: there's a lotta head cases out there, you could make a bundle...
speaker2: and sleep in the winnebago at night...

speaker1: silence. 
speaker2: y'know... a man goes through what i've gone through, he's supposed to learn something. i'm trying to figure out what i learned. did i learn anything?
speaker3: you're learning some discipline and self-control...
speaker2: and that there's a time in life to play it safe...
speaker3: that's great, roy... and i'm learning how to listen to the tuning fork, throw caution to the wind, and take crazy risks i never thought were possible...
speaker2: c'mon, molly, when did you ever take a crazy risk?
speaker3: i fell for you...

