speaker1: judy baumer is going as a twirler. 
speaker2: but she's so fat. i'd go as cinderella... or peter pan.
speaker1: peter pan's a boy. tinker bell's a girl. phillip could go as peter pan... 'cept you gotta' fly. phillip smiles a bit at the notion.
speaker2: phillip could go as a bump on a log.
speaker3: why can't we go just once?
speaker1: caus' we jus' can't, ok?
speaker4: our personal beliefs lift us to a higher place. 'sides, halloween is nothing but the devil's work.

speaker1: trick or treat!!! 
speaker2: i'm sorry but we don't take no part in halloween.

speaker1: excuse me? 
speaker2: we're jehovah's witness.
speaker3: hey, phillip perry.
speaker4: hey, billy reeves.
speaker3: how'd ya' know it was me?
speaker2: go eat your supper, phillip.
speaker1: come on, kids. let's go to the next house. sorry for the bother.

speaker1: evenin', larry. forget somethin'? 
speaker2: goin' to austin tomorrow. gonna' take some work with me.
speaker1: work, work, work. when you and me gonna' go out and grab a cold one?
speaker2: sooner the better.

speaker1: if the old man ain't right. 
speaker2: and this goes to the roof?
speaker3: used to... afore they walled it over.
speaker2: if it don't i'm gonna' rip your tongue out.
speaker3: get yer' hands off me!

speaker1: bombs away! 
speaker2: here's your trick!

speaker1: you'n'me must be livin' right, butchie boy! 
speaker2: let's get something straight. i don't like you. as soon as we're on our way, that's it.
speaker1: who said i liked you?

speaker1: keep yer' mouth shut. 
speaker2: gawd i'd love to blow yer' head off.

speaker1: b-5. haven't heard that one in awhile. 
speaker2: not since last night. how's the pie?
speaker3: kinda rubbery. it was better yesterday.

speaker1: same pie as yesterday. not much call for rhubarb. sell one slice a day. 
speaker1: yer off duty. tell me, if i stopped bakin' 'em would you still come by every night? red, preoccupied, takes another rubbery bite.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: naw, red garnett, you don't come in here for the coffee and pie. you come in here for the company. to see me.

speaker1: long time, no see. what are you doin' here, chief? 
speaker2: couldn't sleep. whattaya got?

speaker1: guy holdin' his family hostage. she kicked him out, served him divorce papers, he came back drunk and pulled a .38. fired two shots but we don't think anybody's hit. actually you might know the guy from your sheriff days. hayden webb. been on suspension for awhile. ring any bells? 
speaker2: yeah. lemme talk to him.
speaker1: no can do. police jurisdiction.
speaker2: and how are you guys doin'?
speaker1: we got specific rules to follow in these kinda situations, red. he won't talk. jus' keeps yellin', crying and waving his gun around. red moves forward into the yard.
speaker1: at least use the megaphone, you stubborn
speaker2: hayden, this is red garnett. we worked together a few years back. mind if i come in?
speaker3: 'evenin', chief.
speaker2: leave it to the p.d. they got a three- ring circus out there and not one cup of hot coffee. you mind?

speaker1: julie, put a pot of coffee on. 
speaker2: appreciate it. jus' what is it you want, hayden?
speaker1: i dunno... i want my job. i want my family.
speaker2: what'd they suspend you for?
speaker1: i answer a call in south austin. girl gettin' raped, that's the word. i bust in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the outta her with a tire iron. 'help me, help me,' she says. i take the guy down. he bites me. i break his arm. case closed, right? no. she was his wife and they both sue me and the department. the guy's about to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he can't pump gas. they have chump change in the bank but they got the best lawyer in town. three months i'm goin' crazy. no pay. then my wife leaves me and i get served divorce papers by john reese -- a sheriff's man. you know how embarrassin' that is? what's happenin', chief? i mean, everybody's got a lawyer!
speaker2: you love her? love the kids?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: then why do you hit me!

speaker1: you don't wanna shoot her. 
speaker2: i swear to i think i do.
speaker1: naw, hayden, i don't think so. i think you love her. you know what else i think? that you'd like a way out of this whole mess... that's where i come in.

speaker1: hits the spot. 
speaker2: no cuffs, huh, chief?
speaker1: okay. you ready?
speaker1: we'll walk out together, okay?

speaker1: any good officer has a back-up. 
speaker2: lemme have it, hayden.
speaker1: was i a good officer, chief?
speaker1: was i a good deputy? the kinda man you could depend on to do what's right?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: there's a buick. 
speaker2: don't want a buick. want a ford.
speaker1: ford's leak oil. a car's a car.
speaker2: then take the buick.
speaker1: soon as we cross state line i'll do just that. i'm tired of riding around. i'll check down the block... for a ford!

speaker1: thank you, phillip. go wake up your sisters. 
speaker2: i take mine fried.

speaker1: a lil' on the bland side. gimme' that ketchup. 
speaker1: don't got a man around here, do ya'?

speaker1: feed me, sweet thing. 
speaker1: well lookie here, you do got a man!
speaker1: i'm bleedin'! you happy?
speaker2: what's your name, boy?
speaker3: ph... phillip...
speaker2: well, okay phillip. reach down and pick up that pistola.
speaker1: give it to me.
speaker2: shut yer' mouth. pick it up and bring it over here.

speaker1: now say 'stick 'em up.' 
speaker2: stick 'em up...

speaker1: put the gun down, old timer. you couldn't hit me anyway. probably shoot the boy. the phone rings. 
speaker1: leave it be.
speaker2: mama?...
speaker3: it's all right, honey.
speaker4: you deaf?!!!
speaker1: set it on the ground.
speaker4: we gotta' get the outta'here!

speaker1: shut up! 
speaker1: i vote we bring her with us.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: how we gonna' get outta' here without a hostage, tell me that? the whole goddam neighborhood's awake.
speaker2: we'll take the boy.
speaker3: nooooo!!!
speaker2: you'll get him back. i swear it.

speaker1: red? red, you there? 
speaker2: red?....
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: he's talkin' to ya'.
speaker1: have you heard a word i've said?!
speaker3: yeah, johnny. jus' thinkin' is all....
speaker2: what'd he say?
speaker3: who?

speaker1: the guvner', red. 
speaker2: reminded me it's an election year.
speaker2: you drink before noon?
speaker3: uh... no.
speaker2: good. last one i had was on a liquid diet.
speaker3: last what?
speaker2: secretary.
speaker1: penny munroe.
speaker3: i believe you have me confused. i'm here from huntsville. assigned by governor connally.
speaker2: adler... what is this? adler searches the messy desk for something.
speaker1: rings a bell, red. believ' they sent us something about her this mornin'...
speaker2: who sent?...
speaker1: ... guvner', red.

speaker1: ... here it is. 
speaker1: tom adler. deputy. state police...
speaker2: it's a relatively new procedure but i was assigned by governor connally...
speaker3: ... 'to work with state law enforcement officials in all affairs where penal matters coincide with those of the state police.' it don't say nuthin' about...
speaker2: ... it includes parole and work release programs as well as penal escape situations. the office phone buzzes. adler picks it up.
speaker1: on our way, marge.
speaker1: gettin' antsy, red. you scheduled it.
speaker2: the idea is that an understanding of the particular behavioral case histories should, in parole situations, help the subject to avoid habitual traps and, in penal escape situations could, conversely, identify those self-same traps as an aide to apprehension.

speaker1: in the first place, miss gerber. 
speaker2: sally, please.
speaker1: in the first place, sally, it ain't a 'penal escape situation.' it's a manhunt.
speaker2: and what does?
speaker1: a nose like a blue tick, a medulla with an antenna and one helluva lot of coffee. and with that he's out the door.

speaker1: listen up, i'll only say it once. at approximately ten o'clock last night two inmates over to huntsville, robert 'butch' haynes and jerry david pugh, escaped through an air shaft, grabbed a prison employee's car and got out through the main gate. at approximately 1 a.m. we believe they robbed a market outside of cut-n-shoot and killed the store's owner. 
speaker2: is the prison employee with them?
speaker1: was when they left the prison.

speaker1: what's the rap sheet on these guys like? 
speaker2: long as christmas eve to a kid. haynes was doin' 40 for armed robbery and pugh was ridin' 20 hisself for manslaughter and assorted parole vios.
speaker3: is there any indication of...
speaker2: ... lemme' finish, billy. this mornin' another hostage was taken... from a private home in madisonville. a boy, age 8.
speaker4: any offenses on haynes or pugh?
speaker2: yer' askin' if they're preverts. well, one is.
speaker5: you got inter-agency cooperation on this?
speaker2: texas rangers as the criminal investigation arm of the d.p.s. share responsibility with the f.b.i. due to the kid being taken. but i doubt they're out of bed yet. a few chuckles.
speaker3: red, how do you plan to apprehend the escapees?
speaker2: officially i can only say we have a full manhunt team on their trail and we'll proceed with due haste.
speaker3: and unofficially?
speaker2: unoffically? i'm gonna' hunt 'em like the rabid dogs they are.

speaker1: that's all i've got but i'd like to introduce ya' to miss sally gerber. she's straight from the governor's office. knows all about psychological profiles and the like. you probably have some questions for her. 
speaker1: look, fellas, i got work to do.
speaker2: you have a question?
speaker3: yes i do.
speaker3: you doin' anything tonight?
speaker3: i'm serious!

speaker1: so whattaya' think? 
speaker1: we are very proud of this baby. governor connally special ordered it so state officials and dignitaries can ride in the parade in dallas. you know president kennedy's comin'?

speaker1: so i hear. 
speaker2: latest technology, oversized engine, complete kitchen and sleeping quarters, gun racks, frig, stove, the works. even got a hot line phone straight to the governor's office.
speaker1: fine piece of machinery.
speaker2: what's more, as soon as it gets back from dallas it will be at your requisitioned disposal. perfect for lots of situations -- a headquarters on wheels.
speaker1: we'll take it.
speaker2: uh, chief?....
speaker2: whattaya' doin', red?! stop takin' pictures!
speaker2: it's jus' not possible, red. the governor's gonna' ride it in a campaign parade tomorrow.
speaker1: guvner' hisself told me this manhunt was top priority.

speaker1: s'cuse me. 
speaker2: please, red, ya' gotta' believe me...
speaker3: who are you?
speaker4: suttle, the driver.
speaker3: not anymore. bradley.
speaker2: this man stays with the vehicle wherever it goes, red!
speaker3: you know how to operate the gadgets?
speaker4: yessir.
speaker3: grab a seat.

speaker1: please red, i'm beggin'. i mean, what am i suppose to tell the governor? 
speaker2: tell john that miss gerber here checked me out on it.
speaker1: not a scratch, you hear me, suttle? not a scratch!

speaker1: i've got it. 
speaker1: you've got on your face.

speaker1: why the we stoppin'? 
speaker2: you said you had a cousin near here.
speaker1: so?
speaker2: so give him a call. see if we can shack there til' things cool down.

speaker1: why'd he take the keys? 
speaker2: so i won't leave him.
speaker1: would you leave him?
speaker2: oh yeah.
speaker3: musta' moved. prolly' couldn't have heard 'em anyway. goddam ear's still bleedin'. you ever try that again...
speaker2: what?
speaker3: what?
speaker2: you were in the middle of threatenin' me.
speaker3: ain't a threat. it's a fact.
speaker2: here kid, take the wheel.
speaker2: in two seconds i'm gonna' break your nose. that's a threat...

speaker1: ... and that's a fact. 
speaker2: i'm gonna' kill you for that.
speaker1: and that's a threat. beginnin' to understand the difference?

speaker1: okay, phillip, listen up. i'm gonna' run in here and get some smokes. 
speaker2: get beer.
speaker1: here, hold it like this.... and point it right between his eyes.
speaker2: what the hell?...
speaker2: yer' a crazy man.

speaker1: how-do. where's yer' sodees? 
speaker2: hot in the first aisle. cold in the back, in the cooler.

speaker1: you ever shot a gun before, boy? 
speaker1: powww!!!... it'll knock you on your ass.
speaker2: be quiet, mister.
speaker1: naw. you ain't never shot no gun before. livin' in a house with three split tails... no daddy around. you'll prolly' grow up queer, you know that? a bead of sweat rolls down phillip's cheek.
speaker1: now i'm gonna' lean up here real slow, okay? so we can talk.
speaker1: there we go. now we can have a 'man to man.' you are a man, ain't ya'?

speaker1: those are cute little underwears you got there, boy. say does your mama sew yer' name in 'em, initials or anything? 
speaker1: whatcha' got in there?
speaker1: kinda' puny, ain't it?
speaker1: the hand is quicker than the eye.
speaker1: that hell's bells, no shells.

speaker1: this be all for ya'? 
speaker2: this and a carton of chesterfields. are those .38 shells? gimme a box.

speaker1: with deposit comes to four dollars eighty. 
speaker1: land's sake. what line of work you in?
speaker2: used cars. buy 'em, fix 'em up. sold a cadillac down in madisonville this mornin'.
speaker1: don't say.

speaker1: whatcha' gonna' do? hit me with it? 
speaker1: me'n you are friends!!!!
speaker2: thick as theives.

speaker1: you got a phone? 
speaker2: naw.
speaker1: then go inside and lie down til' we're gone.
speaker1: well... get in.

speaker1: got a spot on 'em. a store right outside of benhur. about 20 miles from here. 
speaker2: all right. push the roadblock on 288 north by 50 miles.

speaker1: ya' figger' they're that far along? 
speaker2: hell, i dunno'and neither do they. they're jus' happy to be out. it's a high speed sunday drive to them.
speaker1: sunday drive. i like that. never heard you use that one before, red.
speaker2: somethin' eatin' at you?
speaker3: it's... perhaps premature, but do you have an auxiliary roadblock plan for when they split up? everyone stares. no one ever questions red.
speaker1: what makes you so sure they won't stay together?
speaker2: you got somethin' to say, spit it out.
speaker3: their situation is one of accommodation. they won't be together long. silence. sally continues.
speaker3: haynes and pugh are opposites. haynes is a criminal's criminal -- armed robbery, mano y mano confrontation. pugh, on the other hand, has a rap sheet littered with molestation and petty crime. they'll split sheets soon.

speaker1: it's happened before. either way it's a dilemma they'll address soon. that's why we should address it now. 
speaker2: we don't have a dilemma. and neither do they. they'll keep one hostage... and get rid of one, if they haven't already.
speaker1: okay... which one?
speaker2: if there's a snafu, who's john q. public more likely to give a rat's about -- an innocent boy or a goddam bureaucrat.

speaker1: we need to talk, chief garnett. 
speaker2: call me red.
speaker1: red. why are you so hell-bent on embarassing me?
speaker2: i'm hell-bent on one thing. you hang around long enough you'll find that out. til' then a tough backside and a sense of humor will get you through a lot.
speaker1: i have a fine sense of humor, but the one thing i won't do is be your straight man so you can play hero to a bunch of morons who think you're some kind of hillbilly sherlock holmes.

speaker1: awful. arthur godfrey says it keeps ya' young, but i'm not sure it's worth it. 
speaker2: i'd like an answer.
speaker1: this yer' first time out of an office?
speaker1: thought so. what'd ya' expect ya' signed on for?
speaker2: you think i'm what? some schoolgirl who wandered into the boy's locker room? well you're wrong. i don't mean to boast, but i happen to be one of the two most intelligent people involved in this fiasco.
speaker1: didn't ask that. asked what you expected.
speaker2: i expected to be allowed to do the job assigned to me by the governor.
speaker1: i happen to like the governor, hunt quail together every year. but deep down he and i know that win, lose or draw this is my ship, not his.
speaker2: the governor as chief executive officer of this state bears ultimate responsibility for...
speaker1: ... responsibility lies with the one that loses sleep; the one with the most ulcers. this mess turns -- and it might -- all it's gonna cost the governor is a few votes! me, i'm the one that's...

speaker1: you're the one that what? 
speaker2: tell ya' what. you think i'm makin' a wrong turn you speak up. might not agree, but i'll listen. as far as stepped on toes and wounded pride, i'll buy everyone a drink when we head for home. not until. i got more to worry about. that sound fair to you?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: well okay then.
speaker2: so who's the other one?
speaker1: other one?
speaker2: if yer' one brain, who's the other?
speaker1: haynes. he was tested in prison.

speaker1: thankyew. are you gonna' shoot me? 
speaker2: no. me'n you are friends.

speaker1: whattaya' thinkin' about? 
speaker2: nuthin'.
speaker1: if i guess you tell me?
speaker1: you thinkin' about yer mama? phillip sits still. that was it.

speaker1: lemme' ask you somethin'. you right or left handed? 
speaker1: then that's the way we'll go. you ever ridden in a time machine before?
speaker1: sure you have. whattaya' think this is?
speaker2: a car.
speaker1: yer' lookin' at this thing bassackwards. this is a 20th century time machine. i'm the captain and you're the navigator. butch points forward through the dash.
speaker1: out there... that's the future.
speaker1: back there... that's the past. if life's moving too slow and you wanna' project yerself into the future you step here on the gas. see? he does so and the impala surges forward.
speaker1: and if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in, well hell, just step on the brake here and you can slow it down.

speaker1: it's an intercom speaker system. you can get and give instructions to and from the rear of the vehicle. 
speaker2: how's it work?
speaker1: you push the power button but if you've got the volume turned up...
speaker1: ... you'll blow the speakers. sheeeit...

speaker1: that oughta' put his in a sling, huh, red? sorry, ma'am. 
speaker2: shouldn't these be roadblocked as well?
speaker3: sooner or later he'll get on a main road. we don't got the manpower to roadblock every farm to market.
speaker1: in a perfect world, miss gerber, we'd lock arms and thrash the bush til' he turned up...
speaker2: in a perfect world things like this wouldn't happen in the first place.
speaker1: locals are heading out. wanna' follow?
speaker3: let's sit tight. he'll turn up.

speaker1: ok, phillip, we're gonna do some car shoppin'. you ever play cowboys n' injuns? see that ford sedan? now i want you to sneak on over there like an injun and take a peek and see if the keys is in it. 
speaker1: don't have to if you don't wanna... but i'd appreciate it... you bein' the new navigator and all.
speaker1: hey, phillip, check for a radio, too.

speaker1: it's got keys and a radio. i checked. 
speaker2: good man. phillip holds his crotch and stamps his feet.
speaker1: can we stop at a fillin' station.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: number one.
speaker2: this here's nature, phillip. pee in the ditch.

speaker1: start, you 
speaker2: hey, that's my car! hey!!!
speaker1: get in the car, phillip!
speaker1: phillip! get in the car!

speaker1: aaaaaayyyyyy!!!! 
speaker2: goddam, boy, how many rc's did you drink anyway?
speaker3: four.
speaker2: one thing's for sure. you got one helluva set of chompers.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: the ford he stole.
speaker1: owner told the locals they only drove it to church, but it does have a bad emergency brake. how'd ya' know it was a ford?
speaker2: he likes fords.
speaker1: looks like you was right, red. he's off the farm to market and onto a spur.
speaker3: beef up the i-20 roadblock.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: come back...? come back mobile one.
speaker3: tell 'em what i said.
speaker1: uh... no.
speaker4: was that a negative?

speaker1: no, er, yes. no means negative. same thing. over. 
speaker2: i don't want some half-ass sergeant york taking pot shots with a deer rifle. adler puts the headphones back on. bobby lee smirks a bit.
speaker3: it's the only thing to do. he's got the child with him.
speaker4: i suppose you figger' he'll jus' give up.
speaker3: maybe, maybe not.
speaker4: well now there's a safe bet.
speaker3: i'll give you a safe bet. the boy's in better hands now than he was.
speaker2: the third eye pugh's sportin' on the way to the morgue shouts otherwise.

speaker1: you got blue eyes don'tcha', phillip? never met a blue-eyed phillip before. 
speaker2: my daddy.
speaker1: you and your old man get along all right?
speaker2: yeahsir.
speaker1: toss the ball around, play grab-ass in the yard, that sorta' thing?
speaker2: nawsir.
speaker1: why the not?
speaker2: he ain't around, really.
speaker1: well he is or he ain't. when's the last time you saw him?
speaker1: me'n you got a lot in common, phillip. the both of us got blue eyes, we both like rc cola and neither one of us has an old man worth a

speaker1: my mama says he'll prolly' come back. 
speaker2: well... she's lyin' to ya' pure and simple. he ain't never comin' back.
speaker2: guys like us, phillip, we gotta' be on our own. seek foolish destiny, that sorta' thing.

speaker1: what can i do ya' for? 
speaker2: tell him your name.
speaker3: phillip.
speaker1: fill-er-up it is.
speaker2: see there! all you gotta' do is say your name and people are waiting on you hand and foot. like a goddam king or somethin'. phillip can't help but smile at the notion.

speaker1: you responsible for engine maintenance on this thing? 
speaker2: uh, yeah. i'm the full time driver.

speaker1: what? why? 
speaker2: you notice how it keeps wanting to slip a bit goin' into second. feels to me like somebody's been a little heavy-footed with the clutch. i'd take care of that if i was you.
speaker3: no bodies this time, thank gawd.
speaker4: you got the keys to this thing?
speaker3: uh... naw...
speaker4: get me a crowbar. you might wanna' wait in the boat.
speaker5: no thank you.

speaker1: you ready to get out of those skivvies and into some britches? 
speaker1: well all right then. but first we gotta' come up with some a.k.a.'s, fake identities, ya' know. names to call each other when we're around other folks. go ahead and think one up. whatever name you want. phillip is amused by the sport of it all.
speaker2: any name i want?

speaker1: well, hello there and welcome to friendly's. looks like the little fella' needs some pants. 
speaker2: as a matter of fact. shoes and new skivvies, too. he'll tell you his size. go with the lady, buzz.
speaker2: buzz!
speaker1: buzz, what a cute name. like a bee.

speaker1: lucy is holding jeans up to phillip's waist. 
speaker2: it'd be easier if i knew your size, but we'll get it right.

speaker1: wearing the casper mask. 
speaker2: why look. it's a friendly ghost. say 'boo.'
speaker1: boo.
speaker2: not very scary but you'll have a whole year to work on it if your daddy lets you have it. good price, too. what'd you go as this year?
speaker1: a bandit.

speaker1: whattaya' think? 
speaker2: look good.
speaker2: will that be all for you today?
speaker1: you folks are about the grinninest bunch i ever seen.
speaker2: old man willits holds a contest ever' month. the friendliest clerk gets a $20 bonus. there's a ballot box at the front.

speaker1: ... haynes is believed to have an 8-year-old boy with him as hostage. 
speaker2: each checking out the other.
speaker3: we'll get it next time. go get in the car, son.

speaker1: they've got him penned down in noodle, north of abilene. 
speaker2: staring straight at butch.

speaker1: pays paula, then stuffs a $20 in her blouse. 
speaker1: you are truly the friendliest clerk i ever met.
speaker2: thank you for shopping friendly's!

speaker1: i knew something was wrong from the get-go. 
speaker2: look, he left his little boy.
speaker1: and look, the little rascal has... he's no better than...
speaker2: what?!...
speaker1: he's got that casper costume. he stole it!

speaker1: we got seven eggs. i get four to throw and you get three... since it was my idea. 
speaker1: here they come. aim for windows and get ready to run.

speaker1: here, take them nasty skivvies off and put on yer' jeans. 
speaker1: whatya' got there?
speaker2: a ghost suit.
speaker1: from the store? you kyped it?
speaker1: well, hell, phillip, put it on.
speaker2: you ain't mad?
speaker1: let's unnerstan' each other here.

speaker1: stealin's wrong, ok? but if there's somethin' you need bad and you ain't got the money, then it's okay to take a loaner on the item. it's what ya' call an exception to the rule. 
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: nuthin'.
speaker1: what? you don't wanna' get undressed, is that it?
speaker1: you embarrassed caus' i might see yer' pecker?
speaker2: it's... puny.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's puny.
speaker1: well hell, lemme' see.
speaker1: go on. i'll shoot ya' straight.
speaker1: no, phillip, it's good size for a boy yer' age!
speaker1: here they come.

speaker1: haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes for the boy. 
speaker1: one puzzler though. they say the boy could have gotten away but didn't.
speaker2: probably scared to death.
speaker1: that's not all. the kid stole a halloween outfit.
speaker3: holy jeezus, they're a team.
speaker1: with the pit stop in noodle looks like he's headed for the panhandle.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: there's more roads than people in the panhandle.

speaker1: how's that happen? 
speaker2: poor counties. they tend to half finish roads then start on another one.
speaker3: but if anybody knows them backroads it's red.
speaker1: okay, so... i'm robert haynes. called butch by everyone. i was born in amarillo, but grew up in the french quarter of new orleans.
speaker3: what's she doin', red?
speaker1: i killed a man when i was eight.
speaker4: how'd ya' kill him?
speaker1: shot him with a pistol. there was always one around the dance hall. that's what they called it but it was a whorehouse. we lived there.
speaker3: what'd the authorities do?
speaker1: the victim was wanted by the locals so the whole thing got shoved under the carpet cajun-style.
speaker3: they didn't even stick him in juvy?

speaker1: put me in school. three years behind but i catch up. 
speaker2: sounds like things are goin' okay' now?
speaker1: they were. for awhile. when i'm twelve mom dies.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker1: delilah jane haynes hung herself in the bathroom of the brothel. could have saved herself the trouble. post-mortem check uncovered last stage syphilis.
speaker2: where's yer' father?
speaker1: nobody knows where he is now. ditched when i was six. he was a small-time felon. popped up again after mom died -- he'd just been paroled. moved us back to amarillo.
speaker3: yeah? kill somebody else?
speaker1: took a joyride in a ford coupe that i just couldn't resist.
speaker2: hell, that's no big deal.
speaker1: judge gave me four years in gatesville, toughest juvy farm in texas.
speaker3: that's where the learned to be a criminal. seen that before, ain't we, red?

speaker1: so, butch, why don't you tell us where yer' goin', save us the trouble o' huntin' you down? 
speaker2: where i'm going isn't as important as 'why am i going there?'
speaker1: 'caus' i'm runnin' and they're chasin' and i'd jus' as soon go north as south as east as west. it's a fun lil' parlor game, lady, but right now butch haynes don't have the slightest idea where he's headed!

speaker1: an inch is 24 miles. hold yer' pointin' finger along the line of the road. you got three lines on your finger, don'tcha'? each one's an inch. so how many inches to childress? 
speaker2: one, two... six.
speaker1: yer' a helluva' navigator, phillip. a lot smarter than jerry. but i guess that's not sayin' a lot. something catches phillip's eye.
speaker2: lookie there!

speaker1: you said the boy stole a halloween costume... what character? 
speaker2: i believe it was casper... casper the friendly ghost.
speaker1: that was them. they just passed us.
speaker3: turn this thing around!
speaker2: turn it around! that was them!

speaker1: they're goin' fast! 
speaker2: phillip, you get in the back seat and lie down on the floor.

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: hell, i don't know. 'caus' i said so!

speaker1: holster that firearm and get yer back inside! 
speaker2: hold on, phillip!

speaker1: shit!!!! 
speaker2: red spots the same but before he can cuss...

speaker1: uh... red? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: they wanna know if the boy looked okay?
speaker3: he was laughing and waving.
speaker2: don't tell 'em that.

speaker1: they say the boy looked a-okay. 
speaker2: he'll be fine, mrs. perry. this whole nightmare will be over and done with very soon and you'll be home with your boy. i promise.

speaker1: started this road 20 years ago and it still ain't finished. appears to me we got a decision to make. 
speaker1: it's up to you, phillip. we can backtrack to the highway or we can try it on foot.
speaker2: where we goin'?

speaker1: it's alaska, phillip. last of the wild frontier. 
speaker2: it's pretty.
speaker1: it's beautiful!
speaker2: you been there?
speaker1: naw. just got the one postcard. but anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. you feel like a hike?
speaker2: how far?
speaker1: can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred miles.

speaker1: how's it look? 
speaker2: a soda... some gum... half a moon pie.
speaker1: rations for one at best. come on.

speaker1: now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety chain? suttle turns and glares. 
speaker2: yes!!!

speaker1: governor's hot line, red. governor insists that he have the mobile home back for the parade tomorrow. 
speaker2: tell 'em to come and get it.

speaker1: where we goin'? 
speaker2: we're goin' trick r' treatin', phillip.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we ain't allowed to trick r' treat.
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: my mama don't allow it.
speaker2: trick r' treatin'? why not?
speaker1: against our religion.
speaker2: against yer' religion. what kind of foolishness is that?
speaker1: jehovah witness.

speaker1: now wait til' they come. 
speaker1: now, phillip.
speaker2: trick r' treat.
speaker3: well ain't you the cutest lil' ghost i ever did see.
speaker1: say it again, phillip.
speaker2: trick r' treat, ma'am.
speaker3: well, seein' that halloween was yesterday, i guess you'll have to trick me. you missed the caramel popcorn i made up special.
speaker3: wait right here.

speaker1: spur 208 northbound. and 83 at aspermont coming and going. that it? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: you sure there's no meat in there? spam maybe, vienna sausages, anything like that? 
speaker2: nawsir.
speaker1: well, i bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'?
speaker2: yeahsir.
speaker1: well go to it.
speaker2: how many?
speaker1: many as you want.
speaker3: mesmerized by the family.

speaker1: slips a little, then gives all at once. 
speaker2: starts to roll backwards.
speaker3: whooaaa! butch! butch!!!

speaker1: everybody, run! quick! 
speaker1: makes a beeline for the station wagon.
speaker2: forget the car, bob!
speaker1: are you crazy. it's only got a 1000 miles on it!

speaker1: bad brakes. 
speaker2: that was close.

speaker1: bob fielder. 
speaker2: edgar poe.

speaker1: had me scared silly. i've only had her two months. 
speaker2: she's a beaut, all right. say, bob, what with my brake problem and all, i sure would appreciate a lift. me'n my boy live about five miles up the road here. i can pick up the car tomorrow.

speaker1: chuck the small. bob looks for a place to hide. 
speaker2: screaming at the top of his lungs.
speaker3: staring straight ahead at phillip.
speaker4: the brake, phillip! step on the brake!

speaker1: to a skidding halt inches from butch's kneecaps. 
speaker2: smiles at phillip.
speaker3: helluva job, phillip! never had a doubt.
speaker4: smiling back.

speaker1: sorry for the inconvenience, edgar. the kids like the back down like that so they can play. 
speaker2: no trouble at all, bob.

speaker1: why the roadblock, officer? 
speaker2: escaped convict, sir. just a precaution.

speaker1: they've got two highway patrol cars they can give to us now. 
speaker2: tell 'em stand by. we got the best seat in the house right here. have the southern roadblocks call in the dogs and move north. check every road, every farm from san angelo to sweetwater.

speaker1: you're spilling! you're spilling! 
speaker2: patsy! look at what you're doing?!
speaker3: ahhh noooo!
speaker4: look at what you did! it's all over the seat of your father's new car!
speaker4: what is wrong with you?! i told you twice not to jump up and down! didn't i!!

speaker1: that kid! 
speaker2: it's okay, sweetie. daddy's not mad.
speaker1: so much for the new car smell. the little girl muffles her tears.
speaker3: this will do fine right here, bob. but i do have one more favor to ask.

speaker1: just a loaner, bob. not to worry. you'll get her back. 
speaker2: please, it's new. hold it under 45... at least for the next 500 miles.
speaker1: you know i will, bob.

speaker1: they look funny. 
speaker2: maybe, but bob did the right thing. what if he'd put up a fight? i mighta' had to shoot him, and where would that family be then? naw, bob's a fine family man and that's about the best thing a fella' can hope to be.

speaker1: he got through! at aspermont. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: coerced a motorist.
speaker3: well goddam, shout at amarillo. tell 'em we got a notion he's headed their way. adler gets right to it.

speaker1: truth is i wish he'd cross the border so we could turn this over to the feds. 
speaker1: i got work to do back home.
speaker1: i'm hungry. this thing got any food?
speaker2: well, uh...
speaker3: got t-bones in the frig, red!
speaker2: uh, uh, those were stocked for the governor. i don't think that he would approve of...
speaker3: -- and look, red! tater tots! those kind you like!
speaker1: that so?

speaker1: can't find a coonass waltz to save my ass. hey, phillip, that stuff you told me 'bout not trick r' treatin' causa' jehovah... was you pullin' my leg? 
speaker2: nawsir.

speaker1: what else ain't you suppose' to do? 
speaker2: we don't get christmas.
speaker1: yer' shittin' me?
speaker2: nawsir. no birthdays, nor parties, neither.
speaker1: you ain't never been to a carnival neither, have ya'?
speaker2: nawsir.
speaker1: not even one?
speaker2: not even one.
speaker1: cotton candy?
speaker2: seen that once. it's red.
speaker1: pink.
speaker2: never ate none though.
speaker1: roller coasters?
speaker1: seen pictures.
speaker1: you know, phillip, you have a goddammed red, white and blue american right to eat cotton candy and ride roller coasters.
speaker2: i do?

speaker1: thankyew, father, for yer' 'boundiful' nature and goodness. 
speaker2: amen. now dig in, buzz. call him that caus' he eats like a buzzard.

speaker1: you dottie? 
speaker2: eileen. dottie died. her son runs the place but... he ain't never here.
speaker1: never?
speaker3: he leaves at four. not much traffic after lunch.
speaker3: if you need me, i'll be right over here.
speaker1: eat yer' food.

speaker1: think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'? 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: well yer' not smart but you are pretty.
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: work and pleasure should naturally go together don't you think? take me, i enjoy my work.
speaker2: i could give a
speaker1: you got a mouth, don't ya?
speaker3: how you take your steak, sally?

speaker1: uh.. rare. 
speaker2: a woman after my own heart.
speaker2: i'll just wipe its ass, herd it through and you can cut off a hunk. how'd that be?
speaker1: maybe medium-rare.
speaker2: i don't give a who you work for. you're here for one reason and one reason only.
speaker3: anything else, chief?
speaker2: yeah. yer' in my office. the hot line phone rings...
speaker4: that's the governor's line, red!
speaker2: nuthin' as impolite as callin' at the dinner hour.

speaker1: buzz, go ahead and chew on mine if you want. 
speaker2: no thankyew.
speaker3: very polite.
speaker1: i try hard but, ya' know, since his mama died...
speaker2: -- my mama's not dead!
speaker1: okay now, buzz, you go on out in the parking lot and chunk some rocks or something.

speaker1: so is she dead or not? 
speaker2: well his biological mother is alive. gave him up for adoption to me and my wife. my dead wife, that is. she is, was phil, er buzz's stepmother, so she's his mom, was his mom, stepmom, but... she's dead.

speaker1: phillip!... 
speaker2: i keep a cot in the back.

speaker1: you mad at me? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you kissed her, huh?
speaker2: jus' barely.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: caus' it feels good. ain't you ever seen your mama kiss a man?
speaker1: no. you kissed her backside, huh?
speaker2: it's, well, uh, it's kinda' hard to explain. i know how it musta' looked. hell, i don't know how it looked....

speaker1: do you love her? 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: the lady that cooked the hamburgers?
speaker2: yeah, phillip, i love her. kissed her didn't i?

speaker1: you wanna' drive? 
speaker2: yeah!
speaker1: jus' kiddin', buzz. i'm just gonna' stop here for awhile and catch 40.

speaker1: things go our way we'll be in alaska in four or five days. get the jump on winter. 
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i wanna' go home.
speaker1: if you wanted to go home so bad, why didn't you stay at that store today?

speaker1: caus'. 
speaker2: caus' why?
speaker1: 'caus' i stole. they'd put me in jail. prolly' go to hell.
speaker2: same difference. we'll get you home soon. i swear, okay?
speaker1: butch?
speaker2: yeah, phillip?
speaker1: i can drive.
speaker2: done proved that ain'tcha'? there's lots and lots of stuff you can do, phillip. reach in that glovebox there. see if bob's got a notepad or something. phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad.
speaker2: good old bob. can you write?
speaker1: i can print.
speaker2: good enough. now i want you to make a list of everything you ever wanted to do but wasn't allowed to. okay?
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: like... cotton candy.
speaker1: cotton candy?

speaker1: i don't know. it's yer' list. 
speaker2: butch?...
speaker1: yeah?...

speaker1: figger to give 'em another hour of shuteye, then grab the patrol cars and head for the panhandle. 
speaker2: bring back any memories?
speaker1: too many.
speaker1: they got a file on me, too?

speaker1: it's the 60's, red. they've got a file on everybody. 
speaker2: just caus' it's written down don't make it true.
speaker1: you worked as county sheriff in amarillo and austin before you became a ranger. right so far? oh, and it says your name's cecil.
speaker2: yeah, well, that's definitely the worst of it.
speaker1: strong... but good. so cecil...
speaker1: red. what do you do when you're not at work.
speaker2: the file don't tell ya' that, too?
speaker1: nope.
speaker2: i got a ranch i never visit, nieces i hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures and a dog that figures he's the owner and i'm the pet. could have a point, he's there more.
speaker1: a confirmed bachelor. any regrets?
speaker2: liked to have wet those lures. maybe a new dog. how'd you get into... whatever the it is you do?

speaker1: my father's defense lawyer. 
speaker2: that explains your mouth.
speaker1: instead of home ec, i studied criminology. when i graduated, my father, with the governor's help, they, he and my dad... i created a position for myself with the prison system.
speaker2: what's yer' husband think about all this?
speaker1: don't own one.
speaker2: yer' not careful you'll wind up jus' like me. old, tired, with nobody around to love ya'.
speaker1: maybe.
speaker2: it's crazy ain't it?
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: goin' without sleep chasin' after a three time loser and casper the friendly ghost?
speaker1: sleep? that's what retirement's for.
speaker2: bite your tongue.
speaker1: you wanna' know what's really crazy? hayne's juvenile court record lists you as amicus curiae.

speaker1: friend of the court. evidence given by a non-party with the intention of swaying the judge one way or the other. they're usually in written form, but there's no copy attached. red doesn't flinch. 
speaker1: okay, then at least tell me why haynes got four years for a joyride? what about probation? the boy had a home, a father.
speaker2: what's your file say about him?
speaker1: that he was a petty thief who did a little time, got out and stayed pretty clean.
speaker2: there are murderers i'd trust with my mother and petty thieves i wouldn't turn my back on. your precious files are wrong.
speaker1: i'm listening.
speaker2: hayne's old man was a career criminal with a soft spot for whores. one way or the other he beat the outta' every person he ever crossed, screwed or fathered. judge sends junior home with the old man and you can bet your last dollar that within a year he'll have a rap sheet as long as yer arm. i know kids who did gatesville, made it through, shaped up. hell, one's even a priest.
speaker1: still, i don't understand from the file why...
speaker2: -- this job ain't about files and books and second guessin'. ya get one shot and ya call 'em like you see 'em.

speaker1: i'm a bit confused... 
speaker2: in texas the bottom line is who ya' know and what they owe ya. that's how i do my job and how you got yours. he turns to walk inside.
speaker1: what are you trying to say?
speaker2: i bought the judge a t-bone and told him to send the boy up. told him it was the right thing to do. he went along right down the line.
speaker3: his fingers release it as he drifts to sleep.
speaker4: asleep, the way a child sleeps. soundly.

speaker1: didn't mean to scare ya'. i work at night. it's cooler. ya'lls car break down? 
speaker2: me n' the boy was just catchin' some shut-eye in yer' field.
speaker1: oh, it ain't mine. i just works it for mr. andrews. where ya'll from?
speaker2: drove from texarkana yesterday.
speaker1: quite a haul.
speaker2: said a mouthful there.
speaker1: well, ain't no sense in ya'll sleepin' in the car. not when i got a fold out couch sittin' empty.
speaker2: wouldn't want to put you out. 'sides we need to get back on the road.
speaker1: no trouble t'all. wake you up first light, fill yer' belly and send you on yer' way.

speaker1: we didn't pass it did we? 
speaker2: there it is.

speaker1: where are they?! 
speaker2: uh, uh, they're gone.
speaker1: how long?!
speaker2: i don't know, uh, four, five hours.
speaker1: well, goddammit, did he say anything?
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: well, uh, chief garnett wanted me to tell you that the vehicle gets his seal of approval.... saunders' face begins to turn red.
speaker2: and that he wants his chair back.

speaker1: aaaayyyyy! 
speaker2: aaaayyyy!!!
speaker3: aaaayyyyy!!!!
speaker4: he wake ya'll up? now i told ya not to do that.
speaker3: no harm, ma'am.
speaker4: i'm lottie. mack's wife. this here's my grandbaby, cleveland.
speaker2: name's cleve. i'm six.
speaker1: i'm eight. mine's buzz.

speaker1: sure thing. 
speaker2: mornin' to ya.
speaker3: mornin'. rest done ya'll some good.
speaker4: you wanna plate?
speaker3: not jus' yet.
speaker3: don't ya hear good, boy?!
speaker3: boy don't got the sense gawd gave a chicken.

speaker1: want me to stay on highway 70? 
speaker2: let's head on over towards amarillo. we'll cross him there or wave goodbye at the border.

speaker1: where's the boy's mother? 
speaker2: we left her at home this time. boy's night out kinda thing.
speaker2: say, lookie here.
speaker1: mr. andrews give 'em to us when he got hisself a newfangled one.
speaker2: jeezus. now this is music. you know how long it's been since i heard this.
speaker1: that's an oldie all right. mrs. andrews' maiden name was bougeois -- half-creole herself she is, but mr. andrews he don't like nobody to know.

speaker1: you dance, lottie? 
speaker2: lawd goodness no.

speaker1: here, jus' follow me. 
speaker2: mr. poe, you sure can move.
speaker1: oughta be able to. was raised in a dime a dance whorehouse.
speaker2: yer' foolin' me?
speaker1: no, ma'am. my mama would dance their out of the fryin' pan and into the back room fire.
speaker1: get on yer' feet, buzz. you'n cleve shake a leg.
speaker2: well go on!
speaker1: dance, boys!

speaker1: update on the manhunt for the escaped convict. haynes is armed and extremely dangerous. he is believed to have a hostage with him, an eight-year-old boy. 
speaker2: we'll be leavin' soon enough. i'll kill all of you if you try anything stupid.
speaker3: what's texarkana like? i ain't never been there.
speaker4: oh, it's real nice. i got a dog named... phillip and a tree house and...
speaker2: come on, buzz. time for us to hit the road.
speaker3: whass' wrong, mack? you look like you seen a ghost.
speaker5: do me agin'!
speaker5: come on, mister, do me agin'!

speaker1: why'd ya' wanna' go and hit cleve for? he didn't move fast enough for ya', is that it? or maybe he gets excited sometimes and don't hear everything ya' say? you make me sick to my stomach. 
speaker1: point it at 'em.
speaker2: i don't wanna'...
speaker1: point it!
speaker1: now, son, you wanna' flip?
speaker1: go ahead. put yer' hands between yer' legs. i won't hurt ya'.

speaker1: buzz. go out to the car and get that rope. 
speaker1: phillip!...
speaker2: his eyes lock in a gaze with...
speaker3: his sobbing eyes plead for something, anything.

speaker1: i love you. 
speaker2: no, old man. say it like you mean it.
speaker1: this boy know i loves him, mistah'.
speaker2: then say it.
speaker3: please, mistah'. i gotta' sense about you. i know you a good man.
speaker2: nome', i ain't a good man. ain't the worst neither, jus' a different breed.

speaker1: say it, mack. don't cost nuthin'. 
speaker2: i love you, cleve.

speaker1: shut yer' eyes, cleve. mack, you and lottie hold the boy tight. shut yer' eyes, too. 
speaker2: please, mistah', ain't no use in it.
speaker3: we'll give you ever'thing we got!
speaker2: our father, which are in heaven, hallo be thy name...
speaker1: shhh... shhh... shhh...
speaker2: ... thy kingdom come, lawd, thy will be done... here on earth as it is in heaven.

speaker1: shhh.. shhh... 
speaker2: say it wif' me....
speaker3: giv' us this day our daily bread and forgiv' us, lawd, our trespasses as we forgiv' those who tresspass agin' us...

speaker1: thanks for yer' hospitality. 
speaker1: phillip?!...

speaker1: that was a helluva' thing to do, phillip. you're a hero. prolly' be in all the papers tomorrow, how you saved those folks. truth is, i don't think i woulda' killed 'em. i only killed two people in my whole life. one hurt my mama and one hurt you. 
speaker2: a town called happy, over in swisher county.
speaker3: how far?
speaker4: half-hour tops.
speaker3: get on the radio and tell whoever gets there first to play it nice and easy.
speaker2: they've got the boy's mother flyin' in on a private. you want her on standby?

speaker1: jeezus, who did that? 
speaker2: guvner, i assume.
speaker3: not a bad idea.
speaker1: go ahead and chopper her in.
speaker3: i didn't mean to pry last night.
speaker1: yes, ya did.
speaker3: look, red, it was 20 years ago.
speaker1: funny thing. when the judge sent him away the kid stared at me. like he knew. not hard or mad like you'd expect. it was... it was like he was forgiving me.
speaker3: forgiving you for what?! for looking at the facts and doing what you thought was right?
speaker1: naw. for what's gonna happen today.
speaker4: what say we talk this over? settle things man to man. then we can be on our way. i'll even let you drive. knock that right off yer' list. how'd that be?

speaker1: alaska, phillip. wild and wooley. man against nature. me personally, i like them odds. did i tell you my daddy lives there? he's the one that sent the picture postcard. listen here to what he says about it... 
speaker1: 'dear robert'... that's my real name, phillip. robert. jus' like old bob the family man. 'dear robert, i just wanted to tell you that me leaving has nothing to do with you.' phillip, still afraid, can't help but listen as butch suffers through his memories.
speaker1: 'alaska is a beautiful place. colder than most all the time.

speaker1: someday you can come and visit and we'll maybe get to know each other better.' short and sweet. that's the old man's style. 'cold all the time' -- like that's a big sellin' point. he laughs to himself. 
speaker1: he useta' pat me on the head and tell folks 'that it's some that can live life without askin' about it and it's others has to know why, and this boy here is one of the latters.' that's why i wanted to go up there. to visit the old man, i guess. prolly' punch him one first, but then maybe we'd end up bein' friends, sit down, have a beer, talk things over....
speaker1: we'll jus' rest awhile. then you can make up yer' mind. how's that?

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: i know ya' are. truth is, if it had to happen, i'm glad it was you. as opposed to someone i don't know, i mean. all things considered, i feel pretty good, though. could use a beer, though.
speaker1: what's beer taste like?
speaker2: oh, it's about the best thing there is. you'd better put that on the list.

speaker1: i think our chances of this thing ending peacefully are good. 
speaker2: you better run.
speaker3: naw, phillip, i need me a time machine with a loud radio to take me where i'm goin'. walkin's for squares.

speaker1: yeah. you got the area quadroned off? 
speaker2: water tight. like a frog's pussy. sorry, ma'am.
speaker3: no doubt an observation based on personal experience. red can't help but smile.
speaker1: you got him spotted?
speaker2: by the creek, half-mile down the road. i spaced officers in a circle around them 100 yards or so away.
speaker1: you got any problem with me handling this one?
speaker2: what say we both handle it?
speaker1: let's head on down there. bradley, gimme' a megaphone.
speaker2: one other thing, chief. haynes is wounded. the boy gut-shot him.
speaker1: yer' shittin' me.

speaker1: i know yer' hurt. we've got near 100 armed men here. take a look around and you'll see i'm shootin' ya' straight. 
speaker2: all this for me. i'm touched, but i'm afraid ya'll gonna' have to back it up a step or two. i'm headed to mexico. lyin' to 'em, of course.

speaker1: beer. what'd i tell ya'. appreciate the offer, cap'n, but ya' know i can't do that. if you and yer' pals back outta' here, i'll drop the boy at the border. if you don't i'll shoot him in the head. i mean it! 
speaker1: don't look at me like that. i don't even have a gun. what did ya' do with the pistola' anyway?
speaker2: threw it in the well.
speaker1: good thinkin'.

speaker1: ya' think he means it? 
speaker2: what do you think?
speaker3: based on what's happened the past two days i don't think he would.
speaker2: one thing's for sure. if he gets outta' here with the boy, we're right back to where we started.
speaker4: if he kills the boy he'll get the chair.
speaker1: he'll get the chair anyway. he's killed two in two days.
speaker3: we don't know that he pulled the trigger on either of the innocent victims.
speaker1: well he wasn't at home in his strat-o- lounger. 'sides, who killed pugh?
speaker2: all right, both of you, that's enough! from the trail of blood i got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now.
speaker5: where ya' want me, sir?
speaker2: can you shoot off a hood? bobby lee nods.

speaker1: that'd be the boy's mother. 
speaker2: bring her on over.
speaker3: see, phillip, dreams do come true.
speaker4: think i'll get to ride it?
speaker3: today's the day.
speaker3: what's wrong, phillip?
speaker4: it's my mama.
speaker3: now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit, do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r' treat?
speaker4: i got to do one house.
speaker3: put yer' mask back on.

speaker1: jus' push the button and talk normal. 
speaker1: here, i'll hold the thing.
speaker1: yer' doin' fine. we'll get another one.
speaker2: i think yer' tobacco spit shorted it out, red.

speaker1: yeahsir. 
speaker2: hey, cap'n, you got any candy?

speaker1: this one's shot. 
speaker2: well, find another one!
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: candy! halloween candy! popcorn balls, caramel apples, gum, like that?!
speaker2: you hungry?
speaker3: you find me some candy and i'll deliver up a ghost.
speaker2: you heard him.

speaker1: you all set? 
speaker2: you say when, i'll say dead.
speaker1: you got yer'self a deal. candy's waitin'.

speaker1: one more thing. his old lady has to swear to take him trick r 'treatin' every year. phillip strains to look for his mom. he's upset, ready to leave. 
speaker1: gimme' yer' list, phillip.
speaker2: butch?...
speaker1: gimme that list.
speaker1: and she's gotta promise to take him to the fair for rollercoasters and cotton candy whenever he wants... or at least once a year...
speaker2: i wanna' go home!...
speaker1: and when he gets older he gets to drink beer...

speaker1: i don't need beer!... 
speaker2: well it's on yer' list. and to go out on dates with girls! not on the list, but you'll thank me later for that little addition. done that, got to drive, gonna' ride that rocketship. that's about it. she's gotta' promise or i won't let him go!
speaker1: i wanna' go home, butch. my mama's not bad! she gives me those things.
speaker2: don't kid a kidder, phillip.

speaker1: it's a deal! 
speaker2: make her say it!
speaker3: i jus' wanna' go home.
speaker2: know jus' how ya' feel, phillip.

speaker1: phillip knows those things are against our beliefs. 
speaker2: what kinda' foolishness is that? she promises!
speaker3: make her say it!
speaker1: i promise!

speaker1: can we trust her? 
speaker2: she's a real good mama.
speaker1: when you get home, hide this. if she's lyin' you can buy yer' own beer.
speaker2: yer' not bad, are you, butch?
speaker1: yeah. now, buzz, listen here. i want ya' to step out there real slow, keepin' yer' paws in the air. then strut right over to them cops and yell 'trick r' treat.' got it?

speaker1: what are you gonna' do? 
speaker2: somethin'll come to mind.
speaker2: 'bye, phillip. it's been one helluva' ride.
speaker2: all right, cap'n. make way for casper the friendly ghost. the friendliest ghost i know.

speaker1: come on. keep walkin'! 
speaker2: phillip stops walking and stands perfectly still.

speaker1: red lowers his binocs. 
speaker2: why the hell's he stoppin'? call for yer' boy to come!
speaker3: personally i think we negotiated a pretty fair deal, but if there's somethin' else you want...
speaker4: do they want to shoot you?

speaker1: he thought better of releasin' the hostage. 
speaker2: it doesn't necessarily mean that.
speaker3: stay on ready.

speaker1: what's he up to? 
speaker2: if i know.
speaker3: he's giving himself up.
speaker1: keep in mind -- he still has the gun.
speaker2: butch! stop and let the boy go! put yer' hands up and let the boy go!!!

speaker1: stop and put your hands on your head! 
speaker2: run, phillip! come here, phillip!
speaker3: come on, come on...
speaker4: chief, we've got an armed killer and an innocent boy out there.
speaker1: you clean?
speaker5: as a whistle.
speaker1: keep him locked down. don't squeeze til' i say 'when.'
speaker4: where the you going?

speaker1: if i had a pistola i'd be headed the other direction. my partner here got rid of the evidence. do i know you, friend? 
speaker2: no... not really.
speaker1: hmm. well, look i wanna' talk to the boy and then we'll take care of bidness. how's that? only take a second.
speaker1: i wanna' give ya' somethin'.

speaker1: he's stopped. 
speaker2: he's gonna make a run for it.
speaker3: give it a second!
speaker1: hold him!
speaker3: let the boy go, butch!
speaker1: if he makes a move...

speaker1: mebe' someday you'll get to go... 
speaker2: he's goin' for his weapon!
speaker3: butch reaches into his back pocket...

speaker1: phillip is obscuring a second shot at butch. 
speaker2: tastes blood and sighs.

speaker1: keep everybody back! 
speaker2: no need to worry. he can't hurt nobody now.

speaker1: what the was that all about?! 
speaker2: i didn't say 'when.'

speaker1: goddammit!! 
speaker2: i thought he had a gun, too, red. there was just no way of knowin'.

speaker1: staring down at butch. 
speaker2: his eyes flutter a bit with recognition.

speaker1: you did everything you could. you know that. 
speaker2: i don't know nuthin'. not a thing.

speaker1: nose pressed against the glass bubble. 
speaker2: his eyes don't close, still squinted but frozen.
speaker3: we realize now, are lifeless.
speaker4: continues its flight past the sun.
speaker5: flares, sending the screen to:
speaker6: that opened the film.

