FADE UP: close up on the face of yuri orlov. 
YURI: there are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation. that's one firearm for every twelve people on the planet. the only question is... ...how do we arm the other eleven? the camera zooms away from his face, revealing:

YURI: i was born yuri orlovitch in the city of odessa in a country that no longer exists. you might have heard of it - a little place called the soviet union. 
YURI: all property is theft.

RADIO ANNOUNCER: --finally, in response to human rights protests and in an effort to encourage the united states to sell grain to the soviet union after two successive crop failures, it is reported that the politburo has consented to permit a limited number of jews to emigrate from the soviet union to israel. and that concludes this edition of news from the bbc world service. 
ANATOLY: trading jews for grain.
VITALY: it's good p.r. - for the moscow olympics.
IRINA: good for the jews.
YURI: and us. all eyes to yuri, family confused. yuri we're jewish.
VITALY: we're not jewish.
ANATOLY: mazeltov.
YURI: there have been few occasions in the twentieth century when it's been an advantage to be a jew.

YURI: we russian jews were supposed to be headed for israel but i didn't see much of the country on that first trip. 
YURI: real jews or fake jews, eighty-five percent of us ended up in that other "promised land".

YURI: i had no idea my father would take his assumed identity so much to heart. i guess he just stayed in character. 
ANATOLY: how many times--i can't eat shellfish. it's "treyf".
IRINA: you're not jewish.
ANATOLY: i like it. i like the hat - to remind us there's something above us. i like that. anatoly dons his hat. anatoly i'm going to temple.
IRINA: you're not going to temple. you go to temple more than the rabbi!
YURI: i was suffering an identity crisis of my own.
YURI: my gift for languages made me highly sought after. the c.i.a. and u.n. were both heavily recruiting russian immigrants. yuri settles on the dove.

YURI: west africa's liberia, or "land of the free", was originally established in the 1800's as a homeland for freed american negroes. it's been enslaved by one dictator or another ever since. they even copied their masters' southern architecture. 
YURI: it was my first meeting with the american- educated andre roosevelt baptiste. while the warning signs were all there, no one had any idea what a monster he would eventually become. i certainly didn't think he would become my friend.
U.N. ENVOY: --with all due respect, mr. baptiste, you don't seriously expect us to believe that this represents your entire arsenal. baptiste shrugs. u.n. envoy this is making a nonsense of the embargo ratified by all five permanent members of the security council. the escalation in the build up of arms jeopardizes not only order in the region but ultimately world order.
BAPTISTE: i am only going to the restroom.
YURI: orders.
BAPTISTE: this is what they mean by u.n. observer?

BAPTISTE: aren't you going to help me hold my cock? 
YURI: doesn't look like a job for two men.
BAPTISTE: you know you are fighting a losing battle, my young friend. war is nature. if you take away the guns, we will kill each other with knives. take away the knives, we will kill each other with sticks. take away the sticks, we will kill each other with your peace treaties. you cannot stop this bath of blood.
YURI: it's not "bath of blood". it's, "blood bath".
BAPTISTE: thank you. but i like it my way.

U.N. PEACEKEEPERS: take it off, baby! take it off! 
AVA: baby blue. my favorite color! a roar of approval from the men. ava i suppose i could give you the speech about "my hope for world peace" but i have a feeling you don't want to hear that today.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: my hope is for a piece of your ass!

U.N. PEACEKEEPER: ava! ava! 
MANAGER: don't touch what you can't afford.
U.N. PEACEKEEPER: let's get drunk.

MONROVIAN GIRL: what's this? 
YURI: for the smile.

YURI: no, no, no, no--fuck, no. money? you want money? no. don't shoot. don't shoot me. u.s. dollars. president lincoln. the liberian puts his finger to his lips to hush yuri. 
LIBERIAN MAN: glock .45.
YURI: what?
LIBERIAN MAN: president jackson.
YURI: no.
LIBERIAN MAN: you are driving a hard bargain.
YURI: no, keep it. keep the money. keep the gun.
LIBERIAN MAN: demand and supply. there is more i am thinking where this comes from.
YURI: you want more glocks?
LIBERIAN MAN: and the heckler and koch g-3 assault rifle.
YURI: what makes you think i'll do that?
LIBERIAN MAN: i will come back and shoot you with the glock. by the way, do you have the hollow point cartridges?
YURI: you got any color preference for that?
LIBERIAN MAN: kelly green. i will find you.
YURI: he'd come to the right place - peacekeepers are armed to the teeth. and nothing but premium product. the u.n. mostly buys from switzerland - where else?

VIVIAN: what are we doing here, yuri? 
YURI: whatever you want.
VIVIAN: you know what i mean. here, in this country. are we doing any good?
YURI: would nothing be better?

YURI: the starting salary for a u.n. interpreter back then was $32,000. i made fifty k on "misplaced" weapons on that one trip alone. i doubt the secretary general noticed. the u.n. spends more on lunch. 
YURI: my tour as a peacekeeper was the perfect preparation for war.

YURI: you know who's going to inherit the earth? vitaly looks at him blankly. yuri arms dealers - because everybody else is too busy killing each other. 
VITALY: it's a of a career move.
YURI: that's the point. i've seen how the world's coming apart.
VITALY: and you want to help with that?
YURI: you can't stop it. it's a basic human need - we eat, sleep, sleep with each other and what else? fight. the oldest human skeletons have spearheads in their rib cages.
VITALY: what do you know about guns?
YURI: i know which end i'd rather be on. every day there are people shooting at each other. i think to myself, what guns are they using? why not mine?
VITALY: i don't know.
YURI: vitaly, i've tasted your borscht, you're no chef. i can eat here for free and i still don't eat here. you're doing nothing with your life.
VITALY: maybe doing nothing's better than doing this. yuri, i've actually fired one of these things.
YURI: that's why i need you. brothers in arms.

ANATOLY: finally getting in touch with what's important, my son? 
YURI: yes.
YURI: it wasn't i was trying to get close to.
YURI: dad's contacts at synagogue landed me my first israeli-made uzis and an introduction to the biggest of the big guns.

YURI: it was the eighties and the cold war was far from thawed. most of the deals were government-to-government. there were some go- betweens - freelancers - but it was a mostly private club with a lifetime club president. yuri drags vitaly away from the sales girls. 
YURI: that's him. the guy eli told me about. simeon zaharoff. brokered deals in the iran/iraq war - both sides, sold missiles to argentina in the falklands. hets a legend. i've got to talk to him. yuri pushes past zaharoff's entourage.
YURI: simeon! simeon!
VITALY: they're talking. zaharoff, irritated, nonetheless humors yuri.
SIMEON: may i help you?
YURI: a mutual friend, eli kurtzman from brighton beach import-export said to contact you. i have a business proposal. perhaps we can discuss it - over a drink. simeon looks him up and down.
SIMEON: you're in the wrong place my young friend. this is no place for amateurs.
YURI: yob tvayu mat. yuri watches simeon go, surrounded by flunkies.
YURI: curious how you always revert to your native tongue in moments of extreme anger...

YURI: ...and ecstacy. 
VITALY: boh...boh. oh, boh!

YURI: the job wasn't so different trom the u.n. i was just as neutral working for the ununited nations. an equal opportunity "merchant of death", i supplied every army but the salvation army. 
YURI: we got our start in lebanon after the suicide bombing.

YURI: when the united states leaves a war zone, they generally don't take their munitions. it costs more to bring it back than buy new stock. 
YURI: i sell by the kilo.
YURI: for all my language skills, i soon discovered that what talks best is money. as long as you can speak dollars, dinars, drachmas, rubles, rupees, pesos, escudos, lira, krones, kwanzas, trancs, guilders, deutshmarks, yen and pounds-fucking- sterling, you can communicate anywhere in the world.

YURI: this is money, vit - small potatoes. 
VITALY: what do we do, go more legitimate?
YURI: no. more illegal.
VITALY: what i'd give right now for a plate of red cabbage and potatoes. the wall explodes with gunfire.
YURI: it's not our fight. vitaly's eyes well with tears.
CLOSE ON RONALD REAGAN: - a cardboard cut-out planted in a sand dune.
YURI: i sold israeli-made uzis to muslims.

YURI: i sold to both pakistan and india in their fight tor the most inhospitable land on earth. 
YURI: how's it going?
INDIAN COMMANDER: we're making terrific progress - most casualties from avalanches and frostbite.

YURI: we had our set-backs. it's not called gunrunning for nothing. 
YURI: cannibal, what's going on?
CANNIBAL: cease fire, man. cease fire. it's over.
YURI: what?! what do you mean it's over?
CANNIBAL: truce. we're friends, man.
YURI: friends?! you can't be friends. last week i spoke to you on the phone. you said you would not rest until every last rebel was dead. you called them vermin. you said would in their mouths, you said you would exterminate them like cockroaches. just last week, you said this!
CANNIBAL: that was last week, man.
YURI: cannibal, don't you walk away from me! cannibal flashes yuri a peace sign.
CANNIBAL: peace, man!
YURI: you, cannibal!!
VITALY: maybe we can offload it - the balkans.
YURI: at least when they say they're going to have a war, they keep their word.

YURI: i even shipped cargo to afghanistan when they were still fighting fellow russians. but i never sold to osama bin laden. not for any moral grounds. back then he was always bouncing checks. 
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: i hope you're not thinking of selling these, mr. orlov.
YURI: personal use.
AFGHANI OFFICIAL: there's a hundred thousand bullets here.
YURI: i'm kind of trigger happy.
YURI: and everywhere i went, ava cordova kept following me around. we were as international as each other.

YURI: operations like mine provided the only way for certain regimes to conduct a respectable war. 
YURI: the freighter i was standing on carried 113 tons of weapons and ammunition for delivery to one of the poorest nations in latin america in direct contravention of half a dozen international arms embargoes. yuri makes a call on his cell phone.
YURI: to keep authorities in the dark, i often spoke in code. rocket launchers were "mothers", the rockets "children". assault rifles were "apples". the ak-47 was "the angel king".
CAPTAIN: do we run?
VITALY: we have to get out of here.
YURI: no, no-one's going anywhere. slow--dead slow. buy me time.
VITALY: yuri!
YURI: what?!
VITALY: i've got belgium.
YURI: what the use is that?! he's painting a name registered in the netherlands! vitaly winces. yuri you got france?!
VITALY: yes, why?
YURI: turn it on its side.
YURI: they say every man has his price - but not every man gets it. interpol agent, jack valentine, couldn't be bought, at least not with money. for jack, glory was the prize.
VALENTINE: not exactly "the love boat". another agent hands him a phone. valentine it's clean?...it doesn't look clean. i'm boarding.

YURI: hey, pay before you play. 
NARC LEADER: you're late.
VITALY: hey, you!
NARC LEADER: you!
YURI: no, you don't him--
YURI: the first and most important rule of gunrunning is never get shot with your own merchandise.

YURI: the second rule is always ensure you have a foolproof way to get paid. credit card, check, cash. preferably in advance, ideally to an off-shore account. it's why i choose my customers so carefully. say what you like about warlords and dictators, they tend to have a highly developed sense of order. they always pay their bills on time. the narc leader nods his approval. 
NARC LEADER: i apologize for earlier.
YURI: i understand.
NARC LEADER: it's all there.
YURI: what is this?
NARC LEADER: six keys of pure.
YURI: i can't hand this to my bank teller at chase manhattan.
NARC LEADER: you should be thanking me. have you checked the street price today? with the seizures at the border last week, it's jumped thirty percent.
YURI: i sell guns. i don't sell drugs.
NARC LEADER: diversify.
YURI: i've got standards.
VITALY: now what?

YURI: i found vitaly twelve days, two thousand miles and 150 grams later in a bolivian boarding house. 
YURI: vitaly! open this door!
VITALY: yuri! it's my brother, yuri. he's my big brother.
YURI: what the is that?
VITALY: ukraine. i start in odessa, work my way to the crimea--
VITALY: you
YURI: get out of the car. vitaly doesn't budge. yuri i promised our parents.
VITALY: please.
YURI: vitaly, you're going to have a good time. this is a top place. two ford models checked in last week and that cute weather girl's been here since july.
VITALY: please.
VITALY: you're a good brother. vitaly kisses yuri.
YURI: i never understood what separated the recreational drug user from the habitual, the functional addict from the dysfunctional. but for the grace of it could have been me snorting lines as long as the belt parkway.

YURI: vitaly never got completely clean despite the prayers of my mother... 
YURI: ...and father. in fact, my younger brother was the only reason my father ever had to question his new religion.

YURI: after colombia i became a one-man-operation. a sole proprietor as you say on your tax return - that is if you're foolish enough to fill one out. 
YURI: by then i'd mastered my craft. selling arms is not so different to selling vacuum cleaners. you advertise, pound the pavement, take orders.

YURI: of course, a good arms dealer also has to be a political scientist. i go by a seven-step approach. yuri gets off a plane. 
YURI: one: identity a government and an opposition where the opposition is ignored.
YURI: two: wait for a radical group to break away from the opposition.

YURI: three: immediately approach the radical group and offer them arms. 
YURI: four: whether they buy or not, inform the government that the radical group approached you and offer the government arms.
YURI: five: whether they buy or not, re-approach the radical group and offer them more arms but now at a higher price. increasing tension is a means of generating demand and the ideal situation is to sell to both sides.
YURI: six: if they start shooting at each other, the escalation is underway.
YURI: they are consuming small arms and ammunition and the cash register is well and truly ringing.
YURI: seven: don't forget that the success of a radical group in one country can inspire a radical group in a neighboring country.

YURI: the product? er,...colt .45. the beer. 
YURI: it cost me twenty for the fake booking, another twelve to buy out the hotel. you can't force someone to tall in love with you but you can sure make ita sight easier.

AVA: popular hotel, huh? yuri smiles. ava approaches, extends a hand. ava ava cordova. 
YURI: yuri orlov. what brings you to st. barts?
AVA: a photo shoot. at least, that was the plan. but the photographer's plane got stuck in miami. hurricane - though there was nothing in the news.
YURI: those things can come out of nowhere.
AVA: the job's cancelled and there's no flight back to new york 'til tuesday. yuri pretends to ponder her predicament.
YURI: you can hitch a ride with me if you like.
YURI: in my experience some of the most successful relationships are founded on lies and deceit. since that's where they usually end up anyway, it's a logical place to start.

YURI: i nearly went broke trying to convince her i was anything but. i knew ava was not the kind of woman to be seduced by a ride in a private jet unless you owned the jet. 
AVA: this is your plane?
YURI: that is my name.
YURI: of course i was lying. the plane was a rental, like the car and even the suit i was standing in. at the last minute, i bribed the crew for the paint-job.
YURI: luckily, by the time we landed, ava wasn't looking anywhere but in my eyes.

YURI: i had no idea. he hands her back the magazine. yuri i'm sorry i didn't recognize you. you must think me very rude. 
AVA: don't apologize. i put on clothes for a living.
YURI: at least you aren't taking them off.
AVA: i would be if half the photographers had their way. but i can't complain. i'm paid to say, "cheese". what about you?
YURI: nothing so glamorous. i'm in transport - international air freight mostly.
AVA: what, like ups or something?
YURI: something like that.
AVA: business is good.
YURI: like you, i can't complain.
AVA: but if you did?
YURI: well...i don't know.
AVA: this is no accident, is it, yuri? yuri freezes - doesn't answer. ava it feels like fate.
YURI: i don't believe in fate.
AVA: what do you believe in?

YURI: we married in a synagogue to make my father happy. in the eyes of my catholic mother, it was worse than living in sin. yuri and ava kiss his parents, anatoly and irina. 
YURI: it's traditional.
VITALY: traditional. the guests nod, uncertain. yuri one more time, vitaly. vitaly lets go another burst. yuri i'm sorry. i should have said something.

ANATOLY: always remember, son, there's something above you. 
IRINA: you need this.

YURI: i was still living way beyond my means, mortgaged to the hilt, using one credit card to payoff another. anything to keep ava in the style to which she had, thanks largely to me, become accustomed. then suddenly all my christmases came at once. 
ANATOLY: was jewish. you're worshipping a jew.
IRINA: ava, this is too much.
AVA: yuri likes to spoil you.
AVA: nicki! you did it. good boy!
ANATOLY: that's my grandson.
YURI: tak! tak! tak-fucking-tak!
ANATOLY: what the hell's the matter?
YURI: it's over! it's over!
AVA: what's over?
YURI: the cold war, the soviet union, the evil empire. mikhail's saying "no mas". he's throwing in the towel. it's over.
AVA: that's nice. your son is crawling. yuri's too busy kissing gorbachev's birthmark.

ANATOLY: at least there'll be religious freedom. 
YURI: i think i'll go back for a visit. do you stay in touch with uncle dmitri?
ANATOLY: dmitri volkoff? now and then.
YURI: how is he?
ANATOLY: the luckiest man alive. you know he was one of the first men at chernobyl. off-duty, at his daughter's wedding, he was roaring drunk. he was the only one who survived. later they found that alcohol in your blood resists radiation.
YURI: he's still a general in the army?
ANATOLY: major general. he got promoted. two of his rivals were also there that day. i told you - he's the luckiest man alive.
YURI: he may be luckier than you think.
ANATOLY: it's not kosher.
VITALY: merry christmas!
ANATOLY: vitaly, who is this?
ANGEL: angel.
VITALY: her name really is angel. she's a fairy. let's stick her on top of the christmas tree. vitaly and angel laugh. no one else does. vitaly collapses on the floor. nicolai cries. vitaly i love you all.

YURI: i'm going back to ukraine. 
VITALY: i miss odessa. i miss you.
YURI: i miss you too. vitaly kisses yuri. vitaly be careful, yuri. those things you sell, kill... ...inside.

YURI: there's no problem leading a double life. it's the triple and quadruple lives that get you in the end. 
YURI: back then i carried a french, british, israeli and ukrainian passport and a student visa for the u.s., but that's another story. the locker also contains five identical briefcases - presumably he can tell them apart.
YURI: i also packed five different briefcases depending on the region of the world i was visiting.

YURI: the end of the cold war was the beginning of the hottest time in arms dealing. the wall had fallen. the arms bazaar was open. those forty-five years had generated the highest weapons build-up in history. the soviets had tanks and guns coming out the demon hole - huge stockpiles and now no enemy. a border guard approaches yuri's car window. 
BORDER GUARD: visa?
YURI: it's good to be home.

DMITRI: nephew, come here and hug the luckiest man alive. 
DMITRI: this is the slk?
YURI: 0 - 60 in 4.8.

DMITRI: i can't just sell you government property, yuri. i have to report-- 
YURI: --report to who? moscow? as of last week moscow is in a foreign country.
DMITRI: new flag, new boss.
YURI: there is no new boss yet. they're too busy squabbling over who gets the presidential holiday home at the black sea. dmitri can't deny it. yuri it's beautiful. the ones who know don't care any more. the ones who care don't know. show me your inventory.

YURI: is that a "4"? it doesn't look like a "4" to me. it looks more like a "1". 
DMITRI: no, it's a "4".
YURI: it's whatever we say it is because no one else knows the difference. dmitri finally gets it. yuri examines a kalashnikov. yuri 10,000 kalashnikovs for a battalion. your stocks are dangerously depleted, dmitri. you should order more from the factory.
DMITRI: someone will work this out, yuri. what happens then?
YURI: we'll cut them in. anyway, what could happen - you're the luckiest man alive.

YURI: of course my idea was not entirely unique. i had rivals. simeon angrily confronts the soldier at the gate. 
YURI: he's a friend of mine.

SIMEON: do you know who the i am? 
OFFICER: who the cares who the you are?
SIMEON: i demand to see your commanding officer.
OFFICER: you don't demand
SIMEON: just give me back my papers.
OFFICER: what papers?
YURI: you're late, simeon.

BARMAID: you sell guns? 
YURI: maybe you'd like to come to my room and see my bazooka. the barmaid giggles and exits.
YURI: you look a little lost, simeon. is the world changing too fast?
SIMEON: i am here, aren't i?
YURI: not all of you, i think. simeon's look begs explanation. yuri you've gotten so rich selling for the cia, you can't get that ideology completely out of your head. the empire was evil for too long.
SIMEON: i can't deny, it takes some getting used to. last week we were trying to beat their brains in and now we're going into business together.
YURI: there's no place in gunrunning for politics anymore, simeon. i sell to leftists, rightists. i'd sell to pacifists but they're not the most regular of customers. yuri leans forward. yuri of course, you're not a true internationalist until you've supplied weapons to kill your own countrymen.
SIMEON: i understand you have ukraine in your pocket but there are the other satellite states. bulgaria, hungary, poland, belarus. instead of cutting each other's throats, it may be more profitable to work together. what do you think?
YURI: i think you are the amateur now. i think you suffer from a philosophical disadvantage - you have a philosophy. i think you should go with your instincts - your first instinct. simeon is confused. yuri i am the same man who was not good enough for you before. i am not good enough for you now. simeon blanches. yuri gets up. simeon holds his rival's arm.
SIMEON: the problem with gunrunners going to war is there's no shortage of ammunition. yuri departs.

YURI: helicopters, torpedo boats, armored personnel carriers, whole tank divisions. 
UKRAINE MAJOR: --i'll tell you what i'll do. buy six, you get one free.
YURI: what about tech support?
UKRAINE MAJOR: no problem.
YURI: son, get off there before you get hurt.
UKRAINE MAJOR: he's the tech support.
YURI: he's twelve.
UKRAINE MAJOR: thirteen. almost fourteen.
DMITRI: kids grow up fast around here.
UKRAINE MAJOR: he can take it apart in his sleep.

YURI: who are you? 
DMITRI: how can i? you keep selling my helicopters. you're too greedy, yuri.
YURI: we have to go back.
DMITRI: we'll be going in reverse. we can't turn around for a mile. the young soldier on lookout calls to them.
YOUNG SOLDIER: they're coming.
DMITRI: we shoot it out?
YURI: and start an international incident - no, no, no.
DMITRI: so we run.
YURI: no. i've got paperwork.
YURI: it's not a military helicopter. it's a rescue helicopter.

YURI: yuri orlov. 
VALENTINE: papers.
VALENTINE: the end-user certificate for this aircraft states burkina faso. nice. did you type it yourself?
YURI: it's for humanitarian missions.
VALENTINE: you're a humanitarian? yuri shrugs - why not? valentine this is a killing machine.
YURI: not any more.
DMITRI: listen to the nephew.
YURI: didn't you get the memo? the war's over. what can they do with military hardware but convert to civilian use?
DMITRI: what, yes?
VALENTINE: also going to burkina faso?
YURI: but to a different client at a different address.
VALENTINE: what do you take me for? a complete fool?
YURI: not complete, sir. and while i hesitate to tell you your job, i must point out that when shipped separately the weapons and the aircraft both comply with the current interpol trade standards and practices.
VALENTINE: you expect me to believe this is a coincidence?
YURI: i can see how certain people might interpret it as suspicious but thank we live in a world where suspicion alone does not constitute a crime.
VALENTINE: yuri orlov. you and i are going to be seeing a lot of each other.
YURI: i can hardly wait.
BOY: what an

YURI: what was he doing here? 
YURI: don't worry. there're more vcr's. i left them in your new car.
DMITRI: even your enemy was admiring that car. i am the luckiest man alive.
YURI: dmit--!!!

AVA: yes, i'll accept the charges. 
YURI: ava--
AVA: hey, baby. you forgotten what time it is?
YURI: sorry. i, er... how was your audition?
AVA: they're going in another direction. the direction of someone who can act.
YURI: don't say that. you're good.
AVA: and you're biased.
AVA: where are you? is everything okay?
YURI: rough day at the office.
AVA: come home. we miss you.
YURI: soon. how's nicki?
AVA: asleep in our bed. it's lonely without you.
YURI: a party.
AVA: it's always a party where you are.
YURI: i'd better go. i just wanted to call--hear your voice. kiss nicki for me.
AVA: i love you.
YURI: in ukraine since 1992, $32 billion worth of arms have been stolen and re-sold. one of the greatest heists of the 20th century.

YURI: my best customer was self-declared president of liberia, andre baptiste. even though we'd met before, i was in no hurry to meet him again. he'd gotten a reputation for routinely hacking off the limbs of those who opposed him. his seven-year civil war has been described as "a relentless campaign of sadistic, wanton violence unimaginable to those unfamiliar with the details of man's capacity to visit the abyss." that kind of sums up andy for me. as the final truck door is secured, a customized lincoln 
ANDRE JNR.: mr. yuri, i am andre baptiste junior. my father would like to meet you.
YURI: thank him but i have other business. a busy schedule.
ANDRE JNR.: it is not optional. my father is easily offended.
YURI: what do you know? my schedule just freed up.
YURI: but if i thought i was scared of andre senior, i knew i was scared of andre junior. like father, like son. the guava doesn't fall too far from the tree. he was a heavy- drinker, a womanizer with a penchant for cheerleaders and a lover of fast american automobiles which he drove recklessly and with total impunity around the streets of the capital. oh yes, he was also a cannibal. they say andre would eat a victim's heart while it was still beating to give him superhuman strength. i could've told him he'd get the same effect from a pastrami sandwich at carnegie's deli.
YURI: monrovia itself was like being on another planet. planet monrovia. from the temperature it was obviously a planet close to the sun. i rarely saw another white man even at my hotel that was soon dubbed the "little kremlin". and i never left town alone. outside town, was the edge of hell. i didn't want to even gaze into it.
ANDRE JNR.: this is your hotel. two stars.
YURI: part one, two or three?
ANDRE JNR.: i have only seen part one.
YURI: the m60. you want the attachable grenade launcher?
ANDRE JNR.: please. and the armor piercing bullets. i will be back to get you in an hour...or two. it's liberia. we left a welcoming present in your room.
HOTEL PORTER #1: my he nearly cut off her head.

YURI: in the most aids infested region of the globe, where one in four is infected, andre's idea of a joke was to put a young iman and a young naomi naked in my bed and no condom within a hundred miles. 
GLORIA: hello, mr. yuri.
FAITH: we'd be happy to make you happy.
GLORIA: don't worry, we don't have anything.
YURI: how do you know?
FAITH: do we look like it?
YURI: what if i have aids? don't you worry?
GLORIA: you worry too much.
GLORIA: how can we make you happy?
YURI: by leaving.

BAPTISTE: what did you say? 
YURI: now you're going to have to buy it. it's a used gun. i can't sell a used gun.
BAPTISTE: a used gun. that's a good one.

YURI: i had heard of the "boy brigades", "small boy units", "kalashnikov kids". the theory was that a bullet coming from a fourteen year old is just as effective as one trom a forty year old. 
BAPTISTE: i can't pay your asking price, yuri. we are not a rich people and the market is already flooded with your kalashnikovs. in some places you can buy one for the price of a chicken.
YURI: you can't just look at the unit price. you forget the ancillary costs. end user certificates need to be forged and notarized, shell companies set up, insurance purchased, pilots and crews hired. not to mention the bribes. you can't get a nut and bolt out of the eastern bloc without a bribe. there's one bribe for the nut. another for the bolt. this is an expensive proposition. andre interrogates yuri's eyes.
BAPTISTE: i pay in timber...or stones.
YURI: i'll take the stones. it's hard to get a tree trunk in my hand luggage.
BAPTISTE: very professional, lieutenant.
LIEUTENANT: dismissed!
YURI: i know you're planning a new offensive. if you delay a week i can get you the armored personnel carriers we talked about. they would give you a significant strategic advantage.
BAPTISTE: they say i am the lord of war. but perhaps it is you.
YURI: it's not "lord of war". it's "warlord".
BAPTISTE: i like it my way.
YURI: diamonds are far less bulky than hundred- dollar bills. you can get a million dollars into a cigarette box.

AVA: yuri, i just got off the phone with the dealer. i sold my first painting. 
YURI: fantastic. who bought it?
AVA: someone important. they want to remain anonymous. how was your trip?
YURI: you know. same old, same old. where's nicki, in bed?
AVA: i'm sorry. poor darling. he tried to stay up.
YURI: i'll kiss him goodnight.
VITALY: this calls for a drink.
YURI: what doesn't?
AVA: my first painting. i'm officially an artist!
YURI: i figured i was a patron of the arts and of everything else ava had tried and failed at after modelling. acting, her own cosmetics line. i didn't sabotage her careers but i can't deny it was convenient for me in maintaining a low profile. she was a beautiful bird in a gilded cage.

YURI: how are you, brother? 
VITALY: you know, still the resident family fuck-up.
YURI: someone has to do it.
VITALY: she knows, right?
YURI: we don't talk about it. vitaly looks askance. yuri how many car salesmen talk about their work, how many executives at cigarette companies? and both of their products kill more people every year than mine. at least mine has a safety switch. if those guys can leave their work at the office, why can't i?
VITALY: you're good. you almost had me convinced. we're going, baby.

YURI: to manet, monet...and ava cordova. 
AVA: yuri!
YURI: the trip went better than expected.
AVA: yuri, they're beautiful. but what am i going to wear them with?
YURI: i know just the outfit.

YURI: i was now the best merchant of death alive. i didn't own my own plane. i owned a fleet - running guns into liberia, sierra leone or the ivory coast at least once a week. unfortunately, my friends at interpol were also starting to find west africa on the map. most trips i had phoney paperwork. if the deadline was tight, i had no paperwork at all. 
PILOT: --even taking into consideration the pay-off to the parents, a week with a girl in burkina faso is cheaper than a night with a girl in jersey.
CO-PILOT: plus, they're cleaner--
PILOT: --and a lot of them speak better english.
VALENTINE: --charlie, echo, india. descend for landing on heading zero...two...nine.
YURI: colonel southern, it's yuri. sorry to call you on this number but i've got an interpol jet and-- the jet outside the window falls back.

COL. SOUTHERN: i can't know you right now. it's not a good time. 
YURI: not a good time!
CO-PILOT: 
VALENTINE: --charlie, echo, india. comply immediately.
YURI: where was the first warning?!
VALENTINE: rock your wings if you intend to comply.
PILOT: i'm putting us down.
YURI: you land and we're all going away! i don't have paperwork!
PILOT: we're in a flying bomb! they're firing bullets at our bullets! forget about going away! they shoot again, we're going away for good! i'm putting us down.
YURI: okay! okay!--fuck!!
YURI: not the airport. there. the highway. it's our only hope.
PILOT: a pothole could set us off.
YURI: don't underestimate yourself. you're the best, tony.

INTERPOL PILOT: i can't land there. 
VALENTINE: he can't get far. i want a truck waiting on the tarmac.

YURI: we're going to be okay. 
PILOT: as far from the evidence as i can.
YURI: wait, you idiots! there's not going to be any evidence! stay with the plane! the pilots ignore him - run for their lives.

YURI: what a disaster. 
YURI: hey, not those! you don't touch the plane! not the seats...
VALENTINE: hey, you!
MBIZI: you run from us. can you run with no legs?
VALENTINE: no, mbizi. no, no, no.
MBIZI: let me disappear him, mr. valentine. he is a devil. let me disappear him.
VALENTINE: i can't do that.
MBIZI: look where we are. who will know?
VALENTINE: we will.
MBIZI: turn your back, mr. valentine. i will go to to stop him.
VALENTINE: no. find the pilots.
YURI: what's the charge?
VALENTINE: what are you doing in sierra leone?
YURI: i'm on safari.
VALENTINE: shooting wildebeests with submachine guns?
YURI: are you with the park service? hunting without a license - is that the charge?
VALENTINE: you're trafficking arms.
YURI: trading. but without evidence who can say?
VALENTINE: trade or traffic, you make a fortune by keeping the poorest people on the planet killing each other. do you know why i do what i do?
YURI: i don't want people dead, agent valentine. i admit, a shooting war is better for business. but i'd prefer people to fire my guns and miss. just as long as they're firing.
VALENTINE: i am legally permitted to hold you for twenty-four hours without charging you. yuri looks away, knows where this is going. valentine you may ask, why do i bother to do that? i can assure you, it is not because i enjoy your company. and you may be surprised to learn that it is not for any vindictive motive. no. the reason i delay you for every second of the permissible twenty-four hours, is that i am delaying your deadly trade and the deaths of your victims. i don't think of it as taking a day from you but giving a day to them. some innocent man, woman or child somewhere has one more day on this earth because you are not free. valentine looks to his watch. valentine see you in twenty-three hours and fifty five minutes. valentine walks away. yuri is left to ponder the notion.
VALENTINE: you'll be pleased to know your colleagues were no more co-operative than you.

VIVIAN: yuri! yuri orlov! 
YURI: vivian...
VIVIAN: what are you doing here?
YURI: you know. fighting the good fight.
VIVIAN: an aid program?
YURI: uh, yes. in fact, i've just had some transport problems. you couldn't give me a ride to monrovia, could you?
VIVIAN: sure. climb in.

YURI: simeon! 
ANDRE JNR.: a gift for you.
YURI: me?!
ANDRE JNR.: who do you think informed on you - cost you your plane? he came to meet my father, hoping to take your place. yuri spits on simeon.
YURI: you stupid old
ANDRE JNR.: he killed your man when he tried to kill you.
YURI: no.
ANDRE JNR.: you want us to let him go?
YURI: no. no. i...
ANDRE JNR.: so you do want him dead. you just don't want to kill him yourself? i understand.
ANDRE JNR.: we'll do it together. a bonding experience.
ANDRE JNR.: you can stop if you want - but you do. just say the word. andre stares at yuri not simeon. andre jnr. say, "stop".
YURI: stop.
ANDRE JNR.: i'll get you another room with a nicer view.

YURI: i started doing a lot of cocaine in west africa. i wasn't medicating myself. i was simply playing catch-up. i was constantly dealing with people who are chemically imbalanced without the aid of chemicals. it's just a matter of etiquette. it's rude to act sane in a room full of lunatics. 
BARMAN: he bought you "brown-brown", mr. yuri.
YURI: what?
BARMAN: "brown-brown".
YURI: what is it?
BARMAN: a mixture - cocaine and gunpowder.
YURI: what does the gunpowder do?
BARMAN: it's magic. they give it to the small boys before battle - they do anything.
YURI: some other time.
BARMAN: you have to try it at least once, mr. yuri. the barman starts chopping another line.
YURI: why?
YURI: i'm going for a walk.

YURI: i didn't you, did i? did i you? 
PROSTITUTE: it's not what i would call a
YURI: are you sick? she ignores him. yuri are you sick?!

GIRL #1: they will! 
GIRL #2: they won't!
GIRL #1: they will!
GIRL #2: they won't!
GIRL #1: they will!
GIRL #2: ask the foreigner. the foreigner will know.
YURI: hello.
GIRL #1: sir, will my fingers grow back?

YURI: simeon. 
MAN #1: don't. he's andre's.
MAN #2: andre.
YURI: yeah, andre.
YURI: i'm sorry. they don't usually do that. let me have a look. maybe i can fix it.
MAN #1: off!

ANDRE BAPTISTE: yuri, you up! i am going to shoot your face off with your own gun. yuri doesn't flinch. 
YURI: not bad. andre's latest double?

ANDRE BAPTISTE: how did you know? 
YURI: he's too eloquent.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: you have no heart.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: have you seen the news? they accuse me of rigging elections, but after this in your florida with your supreme court of kangaroos--
YURI: more good news. that's the last aid shipment. the war is so bad, the u.n. is pulling out.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: why is nothing happening?
ANDRE, JNR.: no trucks. they are trapped on the front lines.
YURI: there are trucks. you just have to get all that food out of them.
ANDRE JNR.: killing certain humans can be considered humanitarian. isn't that right, mr. yuri?
YURI: after surviving the last few days i'd started to feel like i was invincible. but there was a weapon that could hurt me.

AVA: hush, nicki. i don't believe you. valentine is unfazed. ava can you prove any of it? where is your evidence? 
VALENTINE: i was hoping you could help us with that. i understand your parents died tragically in ei salvador. that regime has startling similarities to several of the regimes supplied by your husband.
AVA: get out.

YURI: ava? 
YURI: ava, what's wrong? where's nicki?
AVA: he's with your parents.
YURI: why aren't you dressed? i thought we were going out.
AVA: i can't wear the clothes. i can't wear the jewelry. i can't drive the car. i can't live in this house. everything1s got blood on it.
YURI: don't be so melodramatic.
AVA: of course i'm melodramatic. i'm a failed actress, remember? we need to talk about it.
YURI: why? we never have before.
AVA: now we do.
YURI: these people - you can't trust them--
AVA: --i've talked to your parents. why do you think they don't want your money? they know where it comes from. we all know. yuri sighs, resigned.
YURI: i sell people a means to defend themselves, ava. that's all. i don't hold a gun to any one's head and make them shoot--
AVA: --yuri, i see the news. sierra leone--
YURI: --i don't sell machetes.
AVA: --what do you think is pointing at the victims when they use those machetes? i see the pictures. yuri, the guns are bigger than the boys.
YURI: there's nothing illegal about what i do.
AVA: i don't care if it's legal, it's wrong. ava meets his eye. ava i can accept the drugs. i can even accept the other women. i can't accept this.
AVA: please stop.
YURI: it makes no difference if i stop. someone will take my place the next day.
AVA: let them. we have enough. you're not that little boy in odessa anymore, lining up for a loaf of bread--
YURI: --it's not about the money.
AVA: what is it?
YURI: you can't leave. i'll stop. i'll stop. ava is skeptical. he holds her, reassures her. yuri i've been thinking about it for a while. a lot, lately. i'm making more from the oil and timber anyhow. i'll stop.
AVA: you will? you promise?
YURI: yes. now get dressed. we'll go out. ava picks up the dress off the bed. yuri gazes at her. yuri by the way, you're wrong about not being pretty any more.

YURI: for the next month i stopped running guns. i went legitimate. 
YURI: no wonder valentine was confused.

YURI: thank there are still legal ways to exploit developing countries. 
YURI: but the only problem with an honest buck is they're so hard to make. the margins are too low. too many people are doing it. finally we are privy to the conversation.

ANDRE JNR.: --you should come to liberia with me tomorrow. it is beautiful this time of year. 
TEENAGE GIRL: liberia. is that on long island?
ANDRE JNR.: yuri!
YURI: what the are you doing here, andre?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: we're here for the peace talks at the u.n.
YURI: so at the same time you thought you'd drop in on your arms dealer?!
ANDRE BAPTISTE: is that what you still are? you're a hard man to get hold of all of a sudden.

ANDRE BAPTISTE: --but now you mention it, we are doing a little shopping while we're here - that is if you open for business. 
YURI: they've got to be watching.
ANDRE BAPTISTE: of course they blame me. they always blame me. they are on a--
YURI: --hunt for a witch?
ANDRE BAPTISTE: "witch-hunt". but i have been granted diplomatic immunity due to the escalation in hostilities. that is why i need you. they are making life difficult to re-supply. it will require a man of your unusual ingenuity.
YURI: i can't help you. i'm sorry.
ANDRE JNR.: you still haven't brought me the gun of rambo.

AVA: was that about the oil or the timber? 
YURI: both. everything. ava smiles, carries on reading.

YURI: hey, not even waiting to say goodbye? i'm leaving in ten minutes. 
AVA: sorry, nicki has swim practice.
NICOLAI: bye, papa.
YURI: see you, big guy.
AVA: personally, i'm glad you're going. you've been here so long you're starting to get on my nerves.
YURI: this oil concession should be wrapped up by thursday. i'll be back for the weekend.
AVA: that would be fun.
YURI: you trust me, right?
YURI: she looked me directly in the eye the way i've looked in the eyes of a thousand customs officials, government bureaucrats and footsoldiers from every law enforcement agency in the world - and she lied without flinching.
AVA: yes, i trust you.
YURI: she'd learned from the best.

AVA: that's him. 
NICOLAI: where are we going, mama?
AVA: it's a game.
NICOLAI: like hide and seek?
AVA: yes.

YURI: i can always sense when i'm being tailed. i know what to look for. but then i'd never been tailed by the woman i love. 
YURI: i can put myself in ava's place. she might have understood if the combination was the last four digits of my social, my birthdate, even her birthdate but not nicolai's.
YURI: my son's birthday unlocked what the government would later describe as, "a catalogue of carnage". "90". the lock opens.
AVA: not that. not that, yuri.

VITALY: come to see how the other half lives? 
YURI: i miss your borscht. mom and dad say you're clean.
VITALY: you too. they said you went legitimate - hard to believe.
YURI: that's because it's not true. vitaly is hardly surprised.
YURI: only you know. i'm leaving tonight - on a job. i want you to come.
VITALY: i can't. i'm thinking of opening my own place.
YURI: maybe this trip will help. it's good money.
VITALY: i've given my word.
YURI: they don't have to know. we'll tell them we're going for a little "r" and "r".
VITALY: why do you need me all of a sudden?
YURI: west africa's fucked-up.

YURI: where are we going? 
ANDRE JNR.: ruf - "freedom fighters".
YURI: every faction in africa calls themselves by these noble names - "liberation-this", "patriotic-that", "democratic-republic-of- something or other". i guess they can't own up to what they usually are - "federation- of-worse-oppressors-than-the last-bunch-of- oppressors". often the most barbaric atrocities occur when both combatants proclaim themselves "freedom fighters".

VITALY:  
VITALY: yuri, i need to talk to you.
YURI: not now.
VITALY: now.
YURI: excuse me.
YURI: what?
VITALY: we can't do this deal.
YURI: the we can't.
VITALY: look over there. as soon as we leave, they're going to die.
YURI: it's not our business.
REBEL LEADER: what's the hold up?
YURI: there is no hold up. i'll be right there. yuri draws vitaly further away. yuri vitaly, it's what we always know - we can't control what they do.
VITALY: today we can. they're right there - close enough to touch.
YURI: what do you think they'll do if we back out - they'll kill us.
VITALY: and if we go ahead - they'll kill them.
REBEL LEADER: what is he saying?
YURI: nothing.

ANDRE JNR.: what are you doing? 
VITALY: something for yuri.
ANDRE JNR.: step away - slowly.
YURI: vit!!

YURI: i don't know which is worse, jewish guilt or catholic guilt. my parents were like tag-team. 
YURI: but i could not deny them the chance to say goodbye to their eldest son.

YURI: for twenty monrovian dollars a doctor removed the lead from vitaly's body and wrote a bogus death certificate. i should have paid more. the operator of the machine, stops the conveyor belt. 
YURI: i've smuggled millions of rounds of ammunition and the bullet that lands me in jail is found under my dead brother's rib.

AGENT: yuri orlov, we're with the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms. 
YURI: believe it or not, i only use the first two. the agents are not amused - handcuff yuri.
AGENT: you have the right to remain silent. use it. they march him away.

ANATOLY: "crimean restaurant". 
YURI: papa?
IRINA: both my sons are dead.

VALENTINE: one of yours? 
YURI: maybe he did.
VALENTINE: we performed the autopsy and released your brother's body to your family. you tried to do something decent, yuri. you went against your nature. and now it's cost you. your brother's funeral is looking a lot like your funeral.
YURI: falsifying a death certificate? that's not going to hold me.
VALENTINE: you're right, as usual.
YURI: enjoy it.
VALENTINE: what?
YURI: this. tell me that i am everything you
VALENTINE: are you not paying attention or are you delusional? you've broken every arms embargo written. there's enough in those briefcases to buy you consecutive life sentences. you'll spend ten years going from a cell to a courtroom before you even start doing your time.
YURI: my family has disowned me. my wife and son have left me. my brother is dead. trust me, i fully appreciate the seriousness of my situation. but i promise you i won't spend a single second in a courtroom.
VALENTINE: you are delusional.
YURI: i like you, jack. well, maybe not. but i understand you. you feel your loyalty to your badge has finally been rewarded. but you haven't counted on the people who gave you that badge. valentine's turn to hesitate. yuri let me tell you what's going to happen so you can prepare yourself. yuri nods to the interview room door. yuri soon there's going to be a knock on that door and you're going to be called outside.

YURI: first, he will compliment you on the fine job you've done, how you're making the world a safer place and then he is going to tell you that i am to be released. 
YURI: you are going to protest, you will probably threaten to resign.
YURI: but in the end i will be released. yuri exits the cell to freedom.

VALENTINE: i would tell you to go to hell. but i think you're already there. 
YURI: what if i'm not? what if i sleep fine at night? what if i sleep better than you? i think that's what truly scares you.

YURI: most people are happy just to get out of jail. i expect to be paid to leave. yuri opens the case - bales of cash. 
YURI: i'm not a fool. i know that just because they need me one day doesn't mean they won't make me a scapegoat the next. but i was back doing what i do best.

BORDER OFFICER: umbrellas - to saudi arabia? 
YURI: sun umbrellas.
BORDER OFFICER: have a safe trip.

