VERONICA: i said you're beautiful. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: come
HEATHER MCNAMARA: i'm so sure. don't blame me, blame heather. she told me to haul your into the caf pronto. back me up, heather.
HEATHER DUKE: yeah, she really wants to talk to you.
VERONICA: okay, i'm going, i'm going. jesus...

VERONICA: hello, heather. 
HEATHER CHANDLER: veronica. finally. got a paper of kurt kelly's. i need you to forge a hot and but realistically low-key note in kurt's handwriting and we'll slip it into martha dumptruck's lunch tray.
VERONICA: heather. i don't have anything against martha dunnstock.
HEATHER CHANDLER: you don't have anything
HEATHER CHANDLER: don't think.

HEATHER CHANDLER: splendid. i'll dictate. veronica needs something to write on. heather, bend over. 
HEATHER CHANDLER: how nice. two assholes: no waiting.
HEATHER CHANDLER: heather duke, back down.
HEATHER CHANDLER: dear martha, you're so sweet..

KURT: it'd be so righteous to be in a veronica sawyer-heather chandler sandwich. punch it in, ram. 
RAM: yes. i wanna set a heather on my johnson and just start spinning her like a pinwheel.
EARL: right.
RAM: right right.

HEATHER MCNAMARA: aren't they fed yet? do they even have thanksgiving in africa? 
VERONICA: oh sure, pilgrims, indians, tater tots; it's a real party continent.
HEATHER CHANDLER: sawyer. guess what today is?
VERONICA: ouch....the lunchtime poll. so what's the question?
HEATHER DUKE: yeah, so what's the question?
HEATHER CHANDLER: god-damn heather, you were with me in study hall when i thought of it.
HEATHER DUKE: i forgot.
VERONICA: hey, this question wouldn't be that bizarro thing you were babbling about over the phone last......
HEATHER CHANDLER: shut up, it is. i told dennis if he gave me another topic that was political, i'd spew burrito chunks.
VERONICA: betty finn. gosh.....
VERONICA: i'm really sorry i couldn't make it to your birthday party last month.
BETTY: that's okay. your mom said you had a big date. heck, i'd probably skip my own birthday party for a date.
VERONICA: don't say that.
BETTY: oh ronnie, you have to look at what i dug up the other day.
VERONICA: i was talking with someone!
HEATHER CHANDLER: color me impressed. i thought you grew out of betty finn.

COURTNEY: oh great. here comes heather. 
COURTNEY'S FRIEND: 

HEATHER CHANDLER: hi courtney. love your blouse. ooh, let me snare a tater. 
COURTNEY: thanks. i just got it last night at the limited. totally blew my allowance.
HEATHER CHANDLER: that's pretty very. now check this out. you win five million dollars from publishers clearing house, but on the same day ed mcmahon gives you the check, aliens land on earth and say they're going to blow up the world in two days. what would you do?
KEITH: that's easy. i'd just slide that wad over to my father. he's like one of the top brokers in the
KEITH: man, in two days, my dad could double my money. triple it.
COURTNEY: if i got that money, i'd give it all to the poor. every cent.
VERONICA: you're beautiful.

PETER: dennis, my man, run over to mickey d.'s and get me a big mac and some fries. 
DENNIS: but that's the famine fund money.
PETER: hey, even bob geldof's got to eat. if it makes you feel better, bag the fries, and nab yourself an apple pie.

HEATHER CHANDLER: if you're going to openly be a bitch.... 
VERONICA: i'm sorry, it's just why can't we talk to different kinds of people?
HEATHER CHANDLER: me gently with a chainsaw. do i look like mother theresa? if i did, i probably wouldn't mind talking to the geek squad.

RODNEY: did you see that? heather number one looked right at us. 
BIG CYNIC: it must be love.
CAFETERIA THOROUGHFARE: veronica confronts heather chandler.
VERONICA: doesn't it bother you that everyone in the school thinks you're a pirahna?
HEATHER CHANDLER: like i give a they all want me, as a friend or a i'm worshipped at westerburg and i'm only a junior.
VERONICA: pretend you're a missionary saving a colony of cootie victims.
HEATHER CHANDLER: whatever. i don't believe this. we're going to a party at remington university tonight and we're brushing up our conversation skills with the scum of the school.

GEEK WITH BRACES: no seriously, i'd probably go to the pyrimads. with a girl. 
GEEK WITH GLASSES: where you going to get a girl, stud?
BIG CYNIC: taking a to the pyramids on the last day of mankind. you sentimental old fart.
BRACES: geez, forget it.
VERONICA: what about you rodney?
RODNEY: i told you she knew my name. i'd change my life. new clothes.
HEATHER CHANDLER: how sad! blowing all your cash on two days of trying to be hip.
VERONICA: if you're going to openly be a bitch....
HEATHER MCNAMARA: scan on martha dumptruck.

HEATHER CHANDLER: this is the part i hate. the waiting. i'd say we're like twenty minutes from major humiliation. come on, veronica. 
HEATHER CHANDLER: veronica?
VERONICA: damn..

HEATHER CHANDLER: what do i get out of being friends with losers. i give them a piece of a winner and they stain me with loserness. 
PARKING LOT: heavy metaler matt grins.
MATT: you get five million dollars but some martians are going to zap you in two days. you hear that, clyde? that's got to be the most spooky-ass question i've ever heard.
BETTY FINN'S TABLE: betty finn daintily peeps up.
BETTY FINN: i think we should use the money for an end-of-the-world get-together.
RAM: i'd pay madonna one million dollars to ride my face like the kentucky derby. she should be paying me, though.

FEMALE STONER IN ARMY JACKET: what? 
LIBRARY: the all-out nerd lashes out.
ALL-OUT NERD: this is important. with taxes, i'd be only getting 3.5 million and....
PARKING LOT: heavy metaler clyde turns from his friend matt.
CLYDE: if you want a good way to go out before the aliens land, get a lion from the zoo. put a remote control bomb up its when the lion starts tearing you up, press the bomb button. you and the lion die like as one.
JACKIE AND STEVE: cool.

HEATHER CHANDLER: just imagine somebody like your quasi-fat, goody-good friend betty finn doing a crest commercial. no one would buy crest. 
VERONICA: don't tell me. crest would be stained with loserness.
HEATHER CHANDLER: yeah, and who wants that on their teeth?
HEATHER MCNAMARA: oh here we go...

PETER: a dime increases the time! a buck brings good luck! hi veronica. a five keeps the neighborhood alive! a ten and you die without sen! 
HEATHER CHANDLER: you wanted to become a member of the most powerful clique in the school. if i wasn't already the head of it, i'd want the same thing.
VERONICA: i'm sorry? what are you oozing about?
HEATHER CHANDLER: that episode with the note back there was for all of us to enjoy, but you're determined to ruin my day.
VERONICA: we made a girl want to consider suicide. what a scream. what a jest.
HEATHER CHANDLER: come on you jerk. you know you used to have a sense of humor.

HEATHER CHANDLER: ku-urt, let's pa-arty. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: ku-urt, i ne-ed an orgasm.
HEATHER DUKE: veronica, could you come back here?
HEATHER CHANDLER AND HEATHER MCNAMARA: gross!
VERONICA: a true friend's work is never done.
HEATHER CHANDLER: grow up, heather. bulimia's so '86.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: color me nauseous.

VERONICA: maybe you should see a doctor. 
HEATHER DUKE: yeah, maybe.
HEATHER CHANDLER: come on heather. we want another look at today's lunch.
VERONICA: geez, don't listen to them.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: did she have the pie or the ice cream for dessert? and the answer
VERONICA: well, you better move holden out

HEATHER MCNAMARA: veronica, drool much? his name's jason dean. he's in my american history. 
VERONICA: give me the clipboard.
CAFETERIA/JASON DEAN'S TABLE: veronica saunters to jason dean.
VERONICA: hello jason dean.
JASON: greetings and salutations. call me j.d. are you a heather?
VERONICA: no, a veronica. sawyer. this may seem like a stupid question....
J.D.: there are no stupid questions.
VERONICA: if you inherit five million dollars the same day aliens tell the earth they're blowing us up in two days, what would you do?
J.D.: that's the stupidest question i've ever heard.
JOCKS' TABLE: the jocks witness veronica and j.d.
RAM: who does that new kid think he is with that coat? bo diddley?
KURT: veronica is into his act. no doubt.
RAM: let's kick his ass.
KURT: we're seniors, ram. too old for that crap. let's give him a scare though.
J.D.'S TABLE: an intrigued j.d. laconically answers
VERONICA: how very.
HEATHER CHANDLER: come on. veronica later.
J.D.: definitely.
RAM: you going to eat this?
KURT: what did your
KURT: hey ram, doesn't this cafeteria have a no allowed rule?
J.D.: it seems to have an open door policy for though, doesn't it?
KURT: what did you say
J.D.: i'll repeat myself.

HEATHER MCNAMARA: they won't expell him. they'll just suspend him for a week or something. 
HEATHER CHANDLER: he used a real gun. they should throw his in jail.
VERONICA: no way. he used blanks. all j.d. really did was ruin two pairs of pants...maybe not even that... can you bleach out urine stains?
HEATHER CHANDLER: j.d.? you seem pretty amused. i thought you were giving up on high school guys.
VERONICA: never say never.
HEATHER DUKE: what are you going to do, heather? take the two shots or send me out?
HEATHER CHANDLER: did you have a brain tumor for breakfast? first you ask if you can be red, knowing that i'm
HEATHER CHANDLER: it's your turn heather.
HEATHER DUKE: no, it's heather's turn.
HEATHER CHANDLER: anyway, i can say never to high school. i've got david.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: king david.
HEATHER CHANDLER: maybe when you hit maturity you'll understand the diff between a remington university man like david and a westerburg boy like ram "wham-bam- thank-you-maam" sweeney.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: ram's sweet. yo heather, you're up.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: no way, no day!
VERONICA: give it up girl!
HEATHER MCNAMARA: so tonight's the night. are you two excited?
HEATHER CHANDLER: i'm giving veronica her shot. her first remington party. blow it tonight girl and it's keggers with kids all next year.
VERONICA: crap. so who's this brad guy i've been set up with? witty and urbane pre-lawyer or albino accountant?
HEATHER CHANDLER: don't worry. david says he's very so he's very.
HEATHER DUKE: why?
HEATHER CHANDLER: why not?
MOM: heather, your mother's here.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: come on whoever wants a ride.
DAD: take a break veronica, sit down.
VERONICA: all right.
DAD: so what was the first week of spring vacation withdrawl like?
VERONICA: i don't know, it was okay, i guess.
MOM: hey kid, isn't the prom coming up?
VERONICA: i guess.
MOM: any contestants worth mentioning?
VERONICA: may
VERONICA: because you're an
DAD: oh yeah, that's it.
MOM: you two....
VERONICA: great pate, but i'm going to have to motor if i want to be ready for the party tonight.

J.D.: you going to pull a big gulp with that? 
VERONICA: no, but if you're nice i'll let you buy me a slurpee. you know your 7-11speak pretty well.
J.D.: i've been moved around all my life; dallas, baton rouge, vegas, sherwood ohio, there's always a 7-11. any town, any time, i can pop a ham and cheese in the microwave and feast on a big wheel. keeps me sane.
VERONICA: really? that thing in the caf today was pretty severe.
J.D.: the extreme always makes an impression, but you're right, it was severe. did you say a cherry or coke slurpee?
VERONICA: i didn't. cherry.

VERONICA: great bike. 
J.D.: just a humble perk from my dad's construction company or should i say deconstruction company?
VERONICA: i don't know. should you?
J.D.: my father seems to enjoy tearing things down more than putting things up. seen the commerical? "bringing every state to a higher state."
VERONICA: time out....jason dean. your pop's fred dean construction. must be rough. moving place to place.
J.D.: everybody's life's got static. is your life perfect?
VERONICA: sure, i'm on my way to a party at remington university.
VERONICA: it's not perfect. i don't really like my friends.
J.D.: i don't really like your friends either.
VERONICA: it's like they're just people i work with and our job is being popular and
J.D.: maybe it's time for a vacation.

DAVID: throw your coats on the bed, girls. 
WHINING STUDENT: that exam was so bogus.
COED ONE: oh i
BRAD: excellent. did you girls bring your partying slippers?
HEATHER CHANDLER: yeah, let's party.
DAVID: she loves to party.

VERONICA: dear diary, i want to kill and you have to believe.....damn pen! 
VERONICA: you have to believe it's for more than selfish reasons. more than a spoke in my menstrual cycle. you have to believe me.

BRAD: so, are you a cheerleader? 
VERONICA: no, not at all.
BRAD: you're pretty enough to be one.
VERONICA: gee, thanks.
BRAD: it's so great to be able to talk to a girl and not have to ask "what's your major?" i hate that.
BRAD: so when you go to college, what kind of subjects do you think you'll study?

HEATHER CHANDLER: come on david, let's go back to the party. 
DAVID: don't worry, we will. you're just so hot tonight. i can't control myself.
DORM HALLWAY: brad has given up on conversation.
BRAD: so what do you say we head up to my room and have a real party. i've got the best windham hill c.d. collection in the dorm.
BIG AMIABLE STUDENT: brad-man, robinson's looking for you. he says he owes you for blow and he just got some product himself.
BRAD: you're kidding. that actually scored something on his own?
BIG AMIABLE STUDENT: he's in sheila's room, guy. party up.
BRAD: excellent. veronica, ever do
BRAD: phil collins? are you sure he isn't drinking and driving?
VERONICA: jeez, right, then why don't i do drugs?
BRAD: hey, don't run away now.
VERONICA'S BEDROOM: veronica rampages through her diary.
VERONICA: seventeen is the last year mom buys the twinkies. when you make the jump from working weekends at pizza hut to thirty years at i.b.m., you lose something. not innocence--power.

BRAD: how's my little cheerleader? now i know everyone at your high school isn't so uptight, come 
BRAD: let's do it on the coats. it'll be excellent.
VERONICA: i have a little prepared speech i give when my suitor wants more than i'd like to give him....
BRAD: save the speeches for malcom x.
VERONICA: you don't deserve my speech!

HEATHER CHANDLER: what's your damage? brad says you're being a real cooze. 
VERONICA: heather, i feel awful, like i'm going to throw up. can we jam, please?
HEATHER CHANDLER: no. no.

HEATHER CHANDLER: you stupid 
VERONICA: you
HEATHER CHANDLER: you were nothing before you met me! you were playing barbies with betty finn! you were a brownie, you were a bluebird, you were a girl scout cookie! i got you into a remington party! what's my thanks? it's on the hallway carpet. i get paid in puke!
VERONICA: lick it up, baby. lick. it. up.
HEATHER CHANDLER: monday morning, you're history. i'll tell everyone about tonight. transfer to washington. transfer to jefferson. no one at westerburg's going to let you play their reindeer games.

J.D.: dreadful etiquette. i apologize. 
VERONICA: s'okay....
J.D.: i saw the croquet set-up in the back. up for a match?
VERONICA: sure. but i'm blue.

J.D.: goddamn, no wonder you looked so mangled when i came through the window. 
VERONICA: i've always treated heather's teen queen power plays as bullshit.....
VERONICA: but i'm really scared. who am i going to eat lunch with on monday? i sound like an afterschool special.
J.D.: that was my first game of strip croquet, you know. i thank you.
VERONICA: you're welcome. it's a lot more interesting than just flinging off your clothes and boning away on the neighbor's swing set.
J.D.: well, i don't know. there's something to be said for...ouch!
VERONICA: what a night.
VERONICA: what a life. i almost moved into high school out of sixth grade because i was some genius. we all decided to chuck the idea because i'd have trouble making friends, blah-blah-blah.
VERONICA: now blah-blah-blah is all i do. i use my grand i.q. to figure out what gloss to wear and how to hit three keggers before curfew. some genius.
J.D.: heather chandler is one that deserves to die.
VERONICA: killing her won't solve anything.
J.D.: a well-timed lightning bolt through her window and monday morning, all the other heathers, everybody would be cast adrift.
VERONICA: well then, i'll pray for rain.
J.D.: see the condoms in the grass over there. we killed tonight, veronica.
VERONICA: hey, it was good for me too, sparky.
J.D.: just saying it's not hard to end a life.
VERONICA: there's a big difference between the most popular girl in the school and dead sperm.
J.D.: i guess i don't know what the i'm talking about.
VERONICA: i know exactly what the you're talking about and you're right, you don't know what the you're talking about. let's just grow up, be adults, and die.
J.D.: good plan.
VERONICA: but before that, i'd like to see heather chandler puke her guts out.

MRS. CHANDLER: we are leaving soon for your grandmother's. if you care to join us... 
HEATHER CHANDLER: bag that.
MRS. CHANDLER: is that a "no" in your lingo?
HEATHER CHANDLER: lingo this.

VERONICA: trust me. she skips the saturday morning trip to grandma's even when she's not hungover. 
J.D.: then let's just concoct ourselves a little hangover cure that'll induce her to spew red, white, and blue.
VERONICA: what about orange juice and milk? what's the upchuck factor on that?
J.D.: i'm a pine-sol man, myself.
VERONICA: don't be a that stuff'll kill her.
VERONICA: o-kay. we'll cook up some soup and put it in a coke. sick, eh? now should it be chicken-noodle or bean-with-bacon?
J.D.: man veronica, pull the plug on that i say we go with big blue.
VERONICA: what are you
VERONICA: just give me a cup, jerk.
VERONICA: milk and orange juice. hmmmm. maybe we could cough a phlegm globber in it or something.
J.D.: yeah, great.
VERONICA: no luck? well, milk and orange juice'll do quite nicely. quite nicely.
J.D.: chick-en.
VERONICA: you're not funny.
J.D.: i'm sorry.
VERONICA: bonehead.

VERONICA: morning, heather. 
HEATHER CHANDLER: veronica. and jesse james. quelle surprise. hear about veronica's affection for regurgitation?
VERONICA: we both said a lot of things we didn't mean, last night.
HEATHER CHANDLER: did we? how the hell'd you get in here?
J.D.: veronica knew you'd have a hangover. so i whipped this up. family recipe.
HEATHER CHANDLER: did you put a phlegm globber in it or something? i'm not drinking that piss.
J.D.: i knew this stuff would be too intense.
HEATHER CHANDLER: intense? grow up. you think i'll drink it just because you call me
HEATHER CHANDLER: corn nuts!
J.D.: something tells me you picked up the wrong cup.
VERONICA: no sherlock. i can't believe it. i just killed my best friend.
J.D.: and your worst enemy.
VERONICA: same difference. oh i'm gonna...
J.D.: what are we going to tell the cops?
VERONICA: stop kidding around. i'm going to have to send my s.a.t. scores to san quentin instead of stanford.
J.D.: i'm just a little freaked, all right? you got what you wanted, you know.
VERONICA: it's one thing to want somebody out of your life. it's another thing to serve them a wake-up cup of drano.

VERONICA: like a suicide thing? 
J.D.: adolescence is a period of life fraught with anxiety and confusion.
VERONICA: i can do heather's handwriting as well as my own. veronica takes some stationery from the desk and begins writing, calling out her words.
VERONICA: "you might think what i've done is shocking..."
J.D.: "to me though, suicide is the natural answer to the myriad of problems life has given me."
VERONICA: that's good, but heather would never use the word "myriad."
J.D.: this is the last thing she'll ever write. she'll want to cash in on as many fifty-cent words as poss.
VERONICA: she missed "myriad" on a vocab test two weeks ago, all right?
J.D.: that only proves my point more. the word is a badge for her failures at school.
VERONICA: you're probably right..."people think just because you're beautiful and popular, life is easy and fun. nobody understood i had feelings too."
J.D.: "i die knowing no one knew the real me."
VERONICA: that's good. have you done this before?

PRINCIPAL GOWAN: any other principal would take the same position. keep things business as usual. 
COUNSELOR HYDE: heather chandler's not your everyday suicide. she was
KEVIN STAPLES: the parents will be sympathetic, sir.
MRS. POPE: i must say i was impressed to see that she made proper use of the word "myriad" in her suicide note after brutalizing it in a vocabulary test.
PAULINE: i find it profoundly disturbing that we are told of a tragic destruction of youth and all we can talk about is adequate mourning times and misused vocabulary words.
PRINCIPAL GOWAN: oh christ.
PAULINE: the school, meaning both students and teachers, must revel in this revealing moment. i suggest we get everyone into the cafeteria and just talk. and feel. together.
PRINCIPAL GOWAN: thank you, ms. fleming. call me when the shuttle lands...now is this heather the cheerleader?
COUNSELOR HYDE: that would be heather mcnamara.
PRINCIPAL GOWAN: i'd be willing to go half a day for a cheerleader.
KEVIN STAPLES: let's just pack it in an hour early.
PRINCIPAL GOWAN: done. i hate mondays.

PAULINE: i said a circle you imbeciles! forget it! just sit down. i'm just so 
PAULINE: i'll pass the suicide note around the room so you can feel its tragic beauty for yourself. let us share together the feelings the suicide has spurred in us all. who wants to begin?
FEMALE STUDENT: i heard it was really gnarly. she drank liquid plumber and comet and stuff then she smashed....
PAULINE: now, now, we're not here to rehash the coroner's report. let's talk
PETER: heather and i used to go together, but she said i was boring. i realize now i wasn't really boring. she was just dissatisfied with her life.
PAULINE: that's very good peter.
PAULINE: dear veronica, heather was your soulmate.....share.
VERONICA: heather was cool, but cruel. the good looks and bad manners gave her power, but it could not give her happiness.
VERONICA: she realized the only way she could be happy was to give up her power and the only way she could do that was death.

HEATHER MCNAMARA: oh it's so unfair. it's just so 
VERONICA: watch it, heather. you could actually be digesting food.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: yeah, where's your urge to purge?
HEATHER DUKE: it.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: look, heather left behind one of her swatches. she'd want you to have it, veronica. she always said you couldn't accessorize for
FEMALE STONER IN ARMY JACKET: i'm sorry about your friend. i thought she was your usual airhead guess i was wrong. lot of us were.
HEATHER DUKE: what a waste.
HEATHER DUKE: oh the humanity.

HEATHER MCNAMARA: veronica, what are you doing? 
SQUEALING GIRL: everyone in the shower!

MATT: do i deliver or do i deliver? 
RODNEY: hurry up, we're going to get caught.
MATT: mellow out geek. man, i never should have brought you.
CLYDE: let's see some pus

THE GIRLS' COACH'S LOCKER ROOM OFFICE: cautiously quiet pandemonium. 
MATT: does this have something to do with menstrual cramps and
CLYDE: what the
RODNEY: we're on candid camera, dudes. i can feel it.
CLYDE: what the
STEVE: do you deliver or do you deliver?

HEATHER MCNAMARA: that was seriously warped, veronica. 
VERONICA: uh-huh.
HEATHER DUKE: t.v. cameras!
HEATHER MCNAMARA: oh veronica. my hair! my clothes!

HEATHER DUKE: i choose to remember the good times. like when we got our ears pierced at the mall. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: i can still hear those late night talks on the phone.
PETER: the day i won her that stuffed rhino at the 4-h fair, she said to me....
VERONICA: you're an asshole! mute him!
J.D.: mute!
VERONICA: next channel, darling.
VERONICA: heather, how many networks did you run to!
VERONICA: oh, i have to hear this.
COURTNEY: in my heart, heather's still alive.
VERONICA: what are you talking about? she hated you! you hated her! what are you smiling at?
J.D.: heather chandler is more popular than ever now.
VERONICA: yeah. scary stuff.
J.D.: why son, i didn't hear you come in.
FRED DEAN: hey dad, how was work today?
J.D.: that was the one with the wheat right?
BIG BUD DEAN: the save the memorial oak tree society. showed those fucks.
J.D.: thirty fourth of july fireworks attached to the trunk. arraigned but acquitted.
FRED DEAN: kansas. gosh pop, i almost forgot to introduce my girlfriend.
J.D.: veronica, dad. dad, veronica.
VERONICA: hello.
J.D.: jason, why don't you ask your little friend to stay for dinner.
VERONICA: my mom's making my favorite meal tonight. spaghetti. lots of oregano.
J.D.: nice. the last time i saw my mom, she was waving out the window of a library in texas. right,

DAD: take a break veronica, sit down. 
VERONICA: all right.
DAD: so what was the first day after heather's suicide like?
VERONICA: i don't know, it was okay, i guess.
MOM: terrible thing. so will we get to meet this dark horse prom contender?
VERONICA: may
VERONICA: because you're an
DAD: oh yeah, that's it.
MOM: you two....
VERONICA: greate pate, but i'm going to have to motor if i want to be ready for the funeral tomorrow.

FATHER RIPPER: i blame not heather but rather a society that tells its youth that the answers are on the mtv video games. we must pray the other teenagers of sherwood, ohio, know the name of that "righteous dude" who can solve their problems.... 
FATHER RIPPER: it's christ and he's in the book.

BETTY: may heather chandler rest in peace even though she committed suicide. for-the-kingdom-the-power-and-the- glory-are-yours-now-and-forever-amen. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: oh this is a tragic thing and sometimes i have a hard time dealing with it and stuff. please send heather to heaven and all that. thanks. i mean, amen.
PETER: dear make sure this never happens to me. i do not think i could handle suicide and that's the honest truth. pardon the pun. fast-early-acceptance- into-an-ivy-league-school-and- please-let-it-be-harvard. amen.
RAM: in heaven, uh, why did you kill such hot snatch. that's a joke, man. people are so serious. hail mary, who aren't in heaven, pray for us sinners....so we don't get caught. another joke, man.
HEATHER DUKE: i prayed for the death of heather chandler many times and i felt bad every time i did, but i kept doing it anyway. now i know you understood everything. praise alleluia.
VERONICA: hi. i'm sorry. technically i didn't kill heather chandler but hey, who am i trying to kid, right? i just want my high school to be a nice place. amen. did that sound bitchy?

HEATHER MCNAMARA: veronica. what are you doing tonight? 
VERONICA: mourning. maybe watch some t.v. why?
HEATHER MCNAMARA: ram asked me out, but he wants to double with kurt and kurt doesn't have a date.
VERONICA: hea
KURT: we on tonight man?
RAM: i still got to talk to heather, dude. weird funeral, huh?
KURT: pretty weird.
KURT: that pudwapper just stepped on my foot.
RAM: let's kick his ass.
KURT: cool off, we're seniors.
RAM: geek!
BRACES: sit and spin.
KURT: that little prick.
KURT: all right you piece of fag, do you like to big dicks?
BRACES: cut it out!
KURT: say it man. say i like to big dicks.
RODNEY: leave him alone, kurt.
RAM: say it!
BRACES: okay, okay, you like to big dicks.
BRACES: i like to big dicks. mmm-

HEATHER MCNAMARA: don't worry, ram's been so sweet lately, consoling me and stuff. it'll be really very. promise. 
VERONICA: all

KURT: is it sleeping, dude? 
RAM: i think so, man.
KURT: then get over on my side. oh cowtipping is the greatest.
RAM: punch it in!
KURT: count of three, guy.
KURT AND RAM: one. two. three!

KURT: "when i get that feeling, i need sexual healing....." 
VERONICA: yeah, right,
J.D.: what is this
VERONICA: i'm doing a favor for heather. a double date. i tried to tell you at the funeral but you rode off.
KURT: "feel like making bah da dah bah da dah, feel like making love."
J.D.: another heather. i'm sorry. i'm feeling kind of superior tonight. seven high schools in seven states and the only thing different was my locker combination. we've broke through the peer pressure cooker. so what if we had to kill miss popularity..
VERONICA: so what? don't smile like that,
J.D.: our love is let's get a slurpee.
KURT: "and she's buying the stairway to heaven.."

DENNIS: i'm not belittling the famine fund peter, but we're talking teen suicide! westerburg finally got one and i'm not going to blow it. 
PETER: great. heather gets the headline and i get crammed in by the taco bell coupon.
VERONICA: hi guys. i came to check on this week's lunchtime poll topic.
DENNIS: don't worry about it, veronica, sit down. that funeral yesterday must have been really rough.
VERONICA: oh. sure.
YEARBOOK GIRL: we were, uh, wondering if maybe you had some poems or artwork that heather did that we could put in the heather chandler yearbook spread?
VERONICA: the what?
YEARBOOK GIRL: take a look. we'll have a two page layout with her suicide note up here in the right hand corner.
DENNIS: it's more tasteful than it sounds.
VERONICA: i don't know. this thing leaves a bad taste in my mouth.
COURTNEY: like last night, veronica?
VERONICA: i'm sorry? i don't get it.
COURTNEY: you did last night.
COURTNEY'S FRIEND: kurt told us of your little date.
VERONICA: yeah. and? i left him drunk and flailing in cowshit.
COURTNEY: i don't know. he was really detailed.
PETER: shut up, courtney.
VERONICA: don't shut up. i'd like to know just what i did.
PETER: let me show you that lunchtime poll topic, veronica.
HALLWAY OUTSIDE WORKSHOP: peter tells veronica.
PETER: i
VERONICA: hi, kurt? this is veronica sawyer. i didn't expect to be calling either. i guess my emotions took over. i was wondering if you wanted all those things you've been saying to really happen. it's always been a fantasy of mine to have two guys at once...... sure, you can write penthouse forum.
VERONICA: that's right, tonight. in the woods behind the school. don't forget ram.

VERONICA: i don't get the point of me writing a suicide note when we'll just be shooting them with blanks. 
J.D.: get crucial. we won't be using blanks this time.
VERONICA: you can't be serious? hey listen, my bonnie-and-clyde days are over.
J.D.: do you take german?
VERONICA: french.
J.D.: these are ich luge bullets. my grandfather snared a shitload of them in w.w. two. they're like tranquilizers only they break the surface of the skin, enough to cause blood, but not any real harm.
VERONICA: so it looks like the person's been shot and killed when they're really just unconscious and bleeding.
J.D.: we shoot kurt and ram. make it look like they shot each other. by the time kurt and ram regain consciousness, they'll be the laughingstock's of the school. the note's the punchline. how'd it turn out?
VERONICA: first tell me this similarity is not incredible.
J.D.: incredible similarity.
VERONICA: ram and i died the day we realized we could never reveal our forbidden love to an uncaring and ununderstanding world. the joy we shared in each other's arms was greater than any touchdown. yet we were forced to live the lie of sexist- beer guzzling-jock-asshole.
J.D.: exquisite, but i don't think ununderstanding is a word.
VERONICA: we don't want to make them out to be too secretly eloquent. why would the germans invent a bullet that doesn't kill people? i mean it
VERONICA: neat. let's try it out on j.f.k.
J.D.: it doesn't work on small animals!
VERONICA: oh.
J.D.: uh well hey, let's take a look at the homosexual artifacts i dug up. now, prepare to be a little disappointed.
J.D.: we've got a playgirl, a candy dish, a joan crawford post card, and lipstick.
VERONICA: you must have had fun.
J.D.: you know it. oh man, i almost forgot. the one perfecto thing i picked up...
J.D.: perrier water!
VERONICA: oh come
VERONICA: oh, you're so smart. how about a little heterosexuality before we go?

RAM: and drugs and hbo is all i ever need! whoa! can you hear me! hello tokyo! i said and drugs and... 
KURT: shut the up, all right.
RAM: lighten up, dude. in those woods is some of the finest in the school and we don't even have to buy it a hamburger and a diet coke. punch it in!

KURT: hi veronica. 
VERONICA: hi guys. glad you could make it.
RAM: so do we just start
VERONICA: i've made a circle on each end of the clearing. ram, you come over here.
VERONICA: when you get in the circle, strip.
RAM: what about you?
VERONICA: i was hoping you'd rip my clothes off me, sport.
RAM: oh. good idea.
VERONICA: count of three, guys.
VERONICA: one.
VERONICA: two.
J.D.: three.
VERONICA: shucks.
J.D.: did you miss him completely?
VERONICA: yeah, but don't worry, it was worth it just to see the look on....
J.D.: don't move! i'll get him back!

MILNER: i heard it that time! mccord wha? 
MILNER: another gunshot! from the woods! mccord let's roll.

VERONICA: kurt doesn't look too good. 
J.D.: remember he's left-handed.
MILNER: keep going until you hit the clearing!
MILNER: call in!
MILNER: i heard something out there. i'm checking it out.

THE CLEARING: milner runs back into the clearing. 
MILNER: what's the deal? mccord suicide. double suicide. they shot each other.
MILNER: that's kurt kelly! mccord yeah, and the linebacker, ram sweeney.
MILNER: oh my suicide? why? mccord does this answer your question?
MILNER: oh man, they were
MILNER: wait a second. how did they shoot each other if we heard two separate sets of gunshots? mccord i always hear gunshots when i'm high. life is one crazy don't try to analyze it. the quarterback buggering the linebacker. what a waste.
MILNER: oh the humanity.

KEVIN STAPLES: after every touchdown or whatever, they give each other a little slap on the bottom. it seems innocent... 
PAULINE: shut up.
MRS. POPE: look at this. "ununderstanding."
PAULINE: will you shut up! we were in a similar position monday and i thoughtfully suggested that we get the students together for an unadulterated emotional outpouring. you took the suggestion as an opportunity to play yet another round of "let's laugh at the hippie."
COUNSELOR HYDE: pauline, if you want a tryout for the school play....
PRINCIPAL GOWAN: shut up, paul. i've seen a lot of bullshit--angel dust, switchblades, sexually perverse photography exhibits involving tennis racquets, but this suicide thing....i guess it's all on pauline's wavelength. we're just going to write off today, and friday she can do her little little love-in or whatever. whatever.

VERONICA: we killed them, didn't we? 
J.D.: of course.
VERONICA: ich luge bullets! i'm an
J.D.: you believed it because you wanted to believe it. your true feelings were too gross and icky for you to face.
VERONICA: i did not want them
VERONICA: did not.
J.D.: did to.
VERONICA: did not.

HEATHER DUKE: ah, young love. the squealing girl bounds up to the heathers. 
SQUEELING GIRL: did you hear? school's cancelled today because kurt and ram killed themselves in a repressed homosexual suicide pact.
HEATHER DUKE: no way!

J.D.: football season's over, veronica. kurt and ram had nothing to offer the school but date-rapes and a.i.d.s. jokes. 
VERONICA: sure. can we make an ice run before the funeral?

MR. KELLY: if there's any way you can hear me, kurt buddy, i don't care that you really were some pansy. you're my flesh-and-blood. you made me proud. i love my homosexual son. my son's gay and i love him! 
VERONICA: your son's dead and you love him.
J.D.: how do you think mr. kelly would react to a son with a limp wrist with a pulse?

MOM: how was the funeral? 
VERONICA: superb.
WHITNEY JAMES: it looks like the teen suicide epidemic has hit home in sherwood as the death toll at westerburg high rockets to three.
WHITNEY JAMES: heather chandler, kurt kelly, and rupert "ram" sweeney all had good looks and popularity, but there's one thing they didn't have: values, ambition, and hope.
VERONICA: that's three things.
WHITNEY JAMES: it rained everyday of my maui vacation, but hey, i didn't kill myself. i'm whitney james, commentary.
ANCHORMAN: thanks whitney, but i hate to say it. it looks like you brought that rainy weather back with you.

VERONICA: no, it's okay j.d., i just kind of wanted to talk.....oh, a newsmagazine show on channel 16. really? on the suicides. no, sounds great. bye. 
VERONICA: dear diary, my teen angst has a body count.
VERONICA: the most popular people in the school are dead. everybody's sad, but it's a good kind of sad. suicide gave heather depth, kurt a soul, ram a brain. i gave j.d. about the ich luge thing but what really frightens me is that i'm not frightened by what j.d.'ll do next. it's versus my boyfriend and losing....

PAULINE: peter, kill the jukebox. 
PAULINE: could i have your attention?
PAULINE: our school has been torn apart by tragedy. i'm here today to fuse it back together through love! i want everyone to clasp hands. we need to connect this cafeteria into one mighty circuit. let's begin a new happiness!

PAULINE: yo, what's the problem? i know you know how to hold hands. ring-around- the-rosy-a-pocketful-of-posy...forget it! i'm just so thrilled to announce that whitney james of wetc news is taping a rap session with students from area high schools 
PAULINE: no or no?
STUDENTS: no!
PAULINE: i can't hear you....

VERONICA: can't you see this is a special moment? 
J.D.: i was just making it more special.
PAULINE: veronica, there you are!
PAULINE: you people are in charge of getting delegates from every clique in the school to be on the whitney james teenage suicide prevention t.v. special. let's be able to say we were the ones who put peer pressure out to pasture.
PETER: westerburg? a happy family?
PAULINE: i'm sure you'll work something out.
HEATHER DUKE: don't worry. we'll work something out.
VERONICA: yes. yes. we'll work something out.

VERONICA: you shoulda stuck around, jerk. ms. fleming wants to redefine the high school experience. 
J.D.: she wants to ignore the high school experience. our way's better. we scare people into not being assholes.
VERONICA: don't
VERONICA: you can be so immature!
FRED DEAN: we beat the
VERONICA: oh beautiful. the beaver's home.
FRED DEAN: judge told em to slurp and die.
FRED DEAN: i put a norwegian in the boiler room. masterful. when that blew, it set off a pack of thermals i'd stuck upstairs.
FRED DEAN: it's great to be alive!
VERONICA: do you like your father?
J.D.: never given the matter much thought. liked my mother.
J.D.: they said her death was an accident. but she knew when the explosives were set to go off. she knew...
VERONICA: let's just...settle down. ms. fleming has given us a chance to atone for...
J.D.: our sins? what sins? if you put a in a concentration camp, does that make you a nazi?
VERONICA: may

J.D.: we've made mtv. 
VERONICA: we're breaking up. i am out!
J.D.: wha-at? come on, there's another t.v. in the kitchen. you know you used to have a sense of humor.
VERONICA: you're getting too cool for me, j.d.
J.D.: our relationship's moving fast, i know, but i have real, real respect for you.
VERONICA: i'm going to make this ms. pauline thing work. lines of communication between the cliques. you were a phase....
J.D.: phase my ass! you'll be

HEATHER DUKE: what the..... 
HEATHER DUKE: where did you get these?
J.D.: oh, i just had the
J.D.: strength. westerburg doesn't need mushy togetherness, it needs a leader.
HEATHER DUKE: but she couldn't handle it.
J.D.: i think you can. in catcher in the rye holden says his ideal job'd be making sure some kids don't fall off a cliff. he doesn't realize if you pay too much attention to the kids, you'll back off the cliff yourself.
HEATHER DUKE: very very. the photographs?
J.D.: don't worry. i'll ask you to do me a favor. you'll get the negatives and everything back then.
J.D.: in the meantime, strength, and hey, there's a little gift.

EARL: let me get it clear, veronica. you want yourself a sweet homeboy for this t.v. show so you can show everybody what a loose, martin luther cosby-lovng place westerburg is. 
VERONICA: something like that. will you do it?
EARL: damn, you're a shrewd one. shrewd.
VERONICA: i just want to show different kinds of people can get together and it doesn't have to be vietnam. you don't get treated badly here do you?
EARL: i don't get treated at all, but hey, don't worry about it. i'll do your thing. it'll give my mom a smile.
VERONICA: things are going to change, earl.
EARL: uh-huh.
HEATHER DUKE: guess who?
VERONICA: heather.

DAVID: hey veronica sawyer, barf on anybody's carpet lately? 
VERONICA'S BEDROOM: veronica cringes.
VERONICA: is this david? heather's david?

VERONICA: i'm delirious for the both of you. 
HEATHER DUKE'S BEDROOM: david proudly looks down off-screen to his lap.
DAVID: she can't really talk right now.

BETTY: i don't believe it. i'm winning. 
VERONICA: don't get cocky, girl.
BETTY: i missed you. i know i'm not as, as exciting as your other friends.
VERONICA: that's just shoot.
BETTY: ronnie, i'm still a virgin.
VERONICA: shoot.
VERONICA: betty, your daydreams are a lot better than my realities, believe me. i'm afraid though it's time to get your kicked.
BETTY: ronnie!
BETTY: hey, you're not settling for the two shots are you? knock me out girl.
VERONICA: it's not my style, okay?
BETTY: nice guys finish last. i should know.
HEATHER DUKE: brav-
VERONICA: sure. see ya.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: croquet won't be the same without heather.
HEATHER DUKE: oh betty, wait. i almost forgot...the whitney james teenage suicide prevention t.v. special isn't going to be taped at the studios. it's going to be done in the park.
BETTY: but i thought...
HEATHER DUKE: it's going to be like a big picnic.

HEATHER MCNAMARA:  
VERONICA: so did you call people to tell them how to get to the studio tonight?
HEATHER DUKE: back off. i called everyone, even that stoner slut. felt like giving my phone a bath. i told betty just now...damn!
VERONICA: you're so polluted. talking down to people, making fake notes....
HEATHER DUKE: i don't see what gives you the right to lecture,
VERONICA: no, you're wrong. it's not even your turn.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: she's right.....boy, croquet's not the same without heather.

VERONICA: ich luge bullets. i'm such a jerk. 
PETER DAWSON: veronica, i thought we lost you.
VERONICA: i was waiting for my friend betty.
PETER DAWSON: teens talking it out on t.v.! would it be pretentious of me to attach a videocassette of the show on my princeton application?
VERONICA: shucks, that's a great idea, pete.

PETER DAWSON: this is excellent, but i thought we were going to get equal representation on this thind: geeks, gearheads... 
HEATHER DUKE: they're probably just being fashionably late.
HEATHER DUKE: is this very or what? oh, you've gotta meet whitney james! come on!
HEATHER DUKE: whitney, here's my friend.....
WHITNEY JAMES: ah please sit down.
WHITNEY JAMES: i got a confession to make. my name used to be heather, too.
VERONICA: but my name's not...
WHITNEY JAMES: people just don't take the name heather seriously. they should, shouldn't they?

VERONICA: i'm so sorry. i was led to believe there were going to be different kinds of social and psychological types at this gathering. 
WHITNEY JAMES: oh, i was scared of the same thing, heather. the minute you try to deal with the actual teenagers who have contemplated suicide you're stepping into quicksand. quicksand filled with bad complexions, bad grades, bad parents, bad drugs, and all sorts of doody nobody wants to hear let alone bend down to clean up.
WHITNEY JAMES: i'm not knocking teen suicide. it's exciting stuff. my personal faves are those kids from loaded families grabbing the mike to whine how even though they bagged a b.m.w. on their birthday, they're still quote-unquote depressed. it's ridiculous. people who say money can't buy happiness don't know where to shop.

VERONICA: the world wants winners, i guess. 
WHITNEY JAMES: stained with loserness. oh, i like it. can i use that. it'd be dynamite on interoffice memoranda.
VERONICA: it's all yours, heather. now if you'll excuse me, i'm going to go throw up.
WHITNEY JAMES: sure. ciao.

PAULINE: everyone take their places on the stage! isn't this thrilling?! 
VERONICA: but ms. fleming, it's just not right.
PAULINE: what, the wine? i realize you're all under 21, but it seemed like such a perfect touch. could we get some more light up here?

PAULINE: our schools have been torn apart by tragedy. let's fuse them back together through 
PAULINE: ...with no more suicide...
STUDENTS: oh yeah...
J.D.: holy traumatic experiences, batman. i'm sorry you felt you had to put yourself through all that i told you it wouldn't...hey, it's in the past already, right?
PAULINE: no more problems....
VERONICA: oh yeah.
J.D.: cute.
WHITNEY JAMES: let's go for another take.

CASHIER: bargain matinees are for the first show only. 
MARTHA: oh, i forgot.

DAD: hey veronica, how'd that teenage prevention t.v. suicide thing go? 
VERONICA: color me educated. i learned high school happiness is for members only, pauline fleming wouldn't know reality if it lived in her uterus, and reality's name's heather james. also, j.d.'s a major creep.
MOM: i don't know

DAN RATHER VOICE: oh sure, i'll bet even back when i went to school there were drugs, even sex, but they were simpler times. the sherwood suicides tell the bitter truth of today's young. what a waste...oh veronica snaps off the t.v. 
MOM: turn that back on!
VERONICA: this condescending junk makes suicide seem like a cool thing to do. hey kids, make your parents and teachers feel like get the respect in death you'll never get in life.
DAD: if we're not going to watch that program, can i put on the game?
MOM: are you trying to tell me it is
MOM: i'm lost. you don't get enough attention, you get too much attention.
VERONICA: all we want is to be treated like human beings, not like guinea pigs to be experimented on and not like bunny rabbits to be patronized.
DAD: i don't patronize bunny rabbits.
MOM: treated like human beings? is that what you said little miss voice of a generation? just how do you think adults act with other adults? you think it's all just doubles tennis. adults can be horrible to other adults. when teenagers complain that they want to be treated like human beings, it's usually because they
MOM: you'll live. want some pate?
HEATHER DUKE: hi everyone, door was open. veronica, you missed it! pauline and whitney james were up there doing there suicide rap when the cops come in and announce that martha dumptruck tried to buy the farm. she gave the ticket girl at the colfax theatre a suicide note then bellyflopped in front of a car.
VERONICA: is she dead?
HEATHER DUKE: that's the punchline. she's still alive, in stable condition. another case of a geek trying to imitate the popular people of the school and failing miserably. is that pate?

VERONICA: i said i was sorry. 
HEATHER DUKE: you are out of control. heather and kurt were a shock, but martha dumptruck, get crucial! she dialed suicide hotlines in her diapers.
VERONICA: you're not funny. ouch!
HEATHER DUKE: what. a. martyr. understand; martha couldn't take the heat so she got out of the kitchen. just think what a better place the world would be if every nimrod followed her cue.
VERONICA: just shut up and turn on the radio.
HEATHER DUKE: oh yeah.

D.J.: dude, you've got to remember if it wasn't for the courage of the fearless crew, the minnow would be lost. the minnow would be lost! next call! 
TROUBLED MALE VOICE: but skipper hates me....
D.J.: whoa, they're coming out early tonight. what ever happened to teen pregnancy and acne? you've got the dogcatcher on w etcetera and you're listening to hot probs. who am i talking to?

HEATHER MCNAMARA: my name is heather, i mean, not heather. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: it's madonna. geez, no, not that.

D.J.: ah, minnie. don't tell me, mickey just confessed he got a.i.d.s. from goofy at a new year's eve party. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA'S BEDROOM: a broken-down heather mcnamara sobs.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: has cursed me, i think. the last time i had sex, the guy killed himself the next day. i'm failing math.

VERONICA: heather told everyone about heather. 
VERONICA: yes, dear diary, i've cut off heather chandler's head and heather duke's head has sprouted in its place like some mythological thing my eighth grade boyfriend would know about. heather's even doing the old note trick.
VERONICA: i did it j.d.'s way. i did it pauline's way. nothing's changed. i guess that's heather's way. and what about j.d.? i can't get him out of my head. are we going to the prom? or to hell? and where's heather going?
GRUFF TEACHER: where's heather going?
HEATHER DUKE: she's going to

HEATHER MCNAMARA: give me a break. 
HEATHER MCNAMARA: what are you trying to do? kill me?
VERONICA: what were
VERONICA: you're giving your life away to become a statistic in u.s. a today. that's got to be the least private thing i can think of.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: but what about heather and ram and kurt?
VERONICA: if everyone jumped off a bridge, young lady, would you?
HEATHER MCNAMARA: probably....
VERONICA: hey now, if you were happy every day of your life, you wouldn't be a human being, you'd be a game show host.
HEATHER MCNAMARA: let's knock off early. go to the mall.
VERONICA: sure.

COURTNEY: oh great. here comes heather. 
COURTNEY'S FRIEND: 

VERONICA: heather? 
HEATHER DUKE: veronica! color me stoked, girl. i've gotten
HEATHER DUKE: so some people need different kinds of "convincing" than others.... hey, just sign the petition!
VERONICA: don't talk to me like that.
HEATHER DUKE: it was j.d.'s idea! he made out the signature sheet and everything. now will you sign it?
VERONICA: no.
HEATHER DUKE: jealous much?
VERONICA: heather, why can't you just be a friend? why are you such a megabitch?
HEATHER DUKE: because i can be! the same cheek, goddamnit! why are you pulling my dick? do you think, do you really think, if betty finn's fairy godmother made
J.D.: catch a movie? miniature golf?
VERONICA: i was thinking more along the lines of slitting heather duke's wrists open and making it look like a suicide.
J.D.: i could be up for that. i've already started underlining
J.D.: i don't get it! you were wrong! i was right! strength, damnit! come back!

VERONICA: yes? 
MOM: your friend jason dean just stopped by. he seemed very concerned about you. he said he thinks you might try to kill yourself.
DAD: you
MOM: he says we should keep you away from sharp objects, closed garages, toxic...

J.D.: "you can't ever find a place nice and peaceful because there isn't any." 
J.D.: nice. it's got that catcher-in-the-ryey- i-hate-the-world-and-the-world-hates-me- so-let's-commit-suicide ambience. give it a try, underline something.
VERONICA: get off my bed, you sick psycho! you think you're a rebel! you're not a rebel! you're a sick psycho! do you think you're a rebel? do you think you're a rebel? i wanna know!
J.D.: "you say tomayto, i say tomahto. let's call the whole thing off...hold it!
J.D.: look at that. eskimo. one word. i love it. i usually go for whole sentences myself, but hey this is perfecto. eskimo. so mysterious...
VERONICA: wait a....you're not listening! i'm not on your side....

VERONICA: you're still not listening! i'm not.. 
J.D.: nag, nag, nag, nag. nag.
VERONICA: this knife is filthy.
J.D.: what in the do you think i'm doing? taking out her tonsils?
VERONICA: i think i know heather a bit better than you, okay? if she was going to slash her wrists, the knife would be absolutely spotless.
J.D.: how's this? can you see your reflection?
VERONICA: tomorrow someone else will move into her place. that person could be me. ha, there's only one of us who knows heather's handwriting and if you think i'm doing another suicide note.
J.D.: you don't get it, do you? society nods its head at any horror the american teenager can think to bring upon itself. we don't need gloves and does anyone really care about exact handwriting? j.d. tears his gloves off with a giggle. he takes a pen from the kitchen counter and paper from a cutesy memo pad. he shoves the pen in veronica's hand and grabbing her hand, forces her to scribble life on the paper.
J.D.: perfecto. man, i've even got a marked-up catcher in the rye. what else does a suicide need?
J.D.: if you'll excuse me......
VERONICA: no-o!

FATHER RIPPER: eskimo. 
FATHER RIPPER: on the surface, heather duke was the vivacious young lady we all knew her to be. but her soul was in antartica, freezing with the knowledge of the way fellow teenagers can be cruel, the way parents can be unresponsive, and as she writes so eloquently in her suicide note, the way life can suck. we'll all miss sherwood's little eskimo. let's hope she's rubbing noses with
HEATHER CHANDLER: oh veronica, my afterlife is s-o-o boring. if i have to sing "kumbaya" one more time...
VERONICA: what are you doing here?!
HEATHER CHANDLER: i made your favorite. spaghetti. lots of oregano.
HEATHER CHANDLER: dinner!

MOM: dinner! veronica! dinner! 
VERONICA: dear diary, no one can stop j.d. not the f.b.i., the c.i.a., or the p.t.a. that is to say, no one but me. i know where j.d. is coming from and where he is heading. he's wrong, but i'm going to teach him what's right. i'm going to stop j.d....if it's the last thing i do.

J.D.: i can't believe you did it. i was teasing. i loved you. sure, i climbed up here to kill you, but first i was going to try and get you back. with amazing petition. 
J.D.: it's a shame you can't see what our fellow students really signed.
J.D.: listen. "we students of westerburg high will die. today. our burning bodies will be the ultimate protest to a society that degrades is. you all." not that subtle but neither's blowing up the school. talk about your suicide pacts. when our school explodes tomorrow, it's going to be the kind of thing that infects a generation. a woodstock for the 80's. damn, we coulda toasted marshmallows together.
MOM: honey, are you all right in there?
MOM: oh i knew it! no, no! i want my baby back! i should have let you keep that job at the mall. i was just afraid of you coming home alone at night!
MOM: i made your favorite! spaghetti! lots of oregano!
VERONICA: hey mom, why so tense?

FRED DEAN: i need some help with my homework... 
J.D.: sorry tiger, i'm a little busy....

PAULINE: veronica! j.d. told me you committed suicide last night! 
VERONICA: where is he? where's j.d.?
PAULINE: we have to talk. whether to kill yourself is one of the most important decisions a teenager has to make.
VERONICA: get a job.

VERONICA: rodney, where's everybody going? 
RODNEY: it's friday.....
VERONICA: oh my the pep assembly....
RODNEY: yeah, these things are pretty artificial, but at least we all get out of class...

VERONICA: rodney, what's underneath the gym? 
RODNEY: the boiler room.

VERONICA: may i see your hall pass? 
J.D.: i knew that loose was too noose! i mean, noose too loose! you!
VERONICA: like father, like son. a serious-as- bomb in the boiler room that'll set off a pack of thermals upstairs. okay, so let's start by slowly putting the bomb down on the ground.
VERONICA: okay, okay. i knew that. i knew that.
J.D.: you didn't say simon says.

J.D.: you think just because you started this thing, you can end it? 
J.D.: you, really didn't think i'd, forget, forget, to disconnect the....

VERONICA: the bomb's gone on, j.d.! how do you turn it off? tell me! 
J.D.: you!
VERONICA: it's all over, j.d. help me to stop it.
J.D.: you want to wipe the slate clean as much as i do. okay, so maybe i am killing everyone in the school because nobody loves me. you have a purpose though! remember? let's face it, the only place different social types can genuinely get along with each other is in heaven.
VERONICA: how do you turn the off?
J.D.: you're not listening. people are going to look at the ashes of westerburg and say there's a school that self-destructed not because society didn't care, but because that school
J.D.: just push the red button twice. that's what stops it. if that's what you want, babe?
VERONICA: you know what i want, babe?
J.D.: what?
VERONICA: cool guys like you out of my life.
VERONICA: but babe, don't worry, these here were ich luge bullets.

J.D.: color me impressed. 
J.D.: you really me up, veronica.
VERONICA: i thought i...you..
J.D.: you've got power, veronica. power i didn't think you had. the slate is clean.
J.D.: pretend i did blow up the school. all the schools. now that you're dead, what are you gonna do with your life?
VERONICA: perfecto.

HEATHER DUKE: veronica, you look like hell. 
VERONICA: yeah, i just got back.
HEATHER DUKE: what are you doing?
VERONICA: heather, my love, there's a new sheriff in town.
VERONICA: hey, martha, wait up.
VERONICA: my date for the prom kind of flaked out on me, so i thought if you weren't doing anything that night we could go to the video store and rent some new releases or something.
MARTHA: i'd like that.

