speaker1: just do what i do. say the same thing i say. don't open your mouth. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: don't fool around. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: did you hear what i said?
speaker2: i want to document my trip to america.
speaker3: next. could i see your documents, please?
speaker1: yes sir.
speaker3: what is your intended purpose of your visit to the united states?
speaker1: two weeks holiday.
speaker3: how much money are you carrying with you?
speaker1: i have five-hundred dollars.
speaker3: can you show me? sir, no cameras in the fis area!
speaker3: is he with you? are you travelling together?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: please join us. come on forward.
speaker1: is there a problem?
speaker3: no, you're travelling together. i want to talk to you together. hi, how are you? can i take a look at your documents? are you related?
speaker2: yes...he's my friend.
speaker3: okay. you're a czech national and you're a russian national. how do you know one another?
speaker1: we are both from prague.
speaker3: how long are you planning to stay?
speaker1: two weeks.
speaker3: i'd like to speak for himself, okay?
speaker1: he doesn't speak english.
speaker2: i speak english.
speaker3: then answer my questions. where were you planning to stay during the two weeks that you're here?
speaker2: new york.
speaker3: yes, we're in new york now. but where are you planning to stay in new york?
speaker2: a cheap hotel.
speaker3: what are you coming here to do?
speaker2: i'm here for movies.
speaker3: movies...to be in the movies or to see movies?
speaker2: yes. no. both. when i was a boy, i see movie at school called "it's a wonderful life" directed by frank capra. ever since i want to come to america. land of the free. home of the brave. a land where anyone can be anything. as long as they are white.
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker1: he made joke, bad joke. first time on airplane...
speaker3: well, they've got valid visas, but they don't have much money. uh... and i'm not...uh, i think there's a possibility they may be coming to live and reside.
speaker4: look how long the line is. we gotta move 'em out. i'll take them down to secondary.

speaker1: so we're waitin' to hit this warrant - we got emergency service with the heavy weapons standin' by - ready to go. i say, lemme get a cigar outta the car. i go to get the cigar and boom! all the sudden i turn around and a kid with a shotgun let one go. right where i was standin'. that coulda been it. i coulda had my head blown off and for what? some stupid kid got panicky, takes the safety off and it's over. if i hadn't gone back for that cigar - for a bad habit - i would've had my head blown off. 
speaker2: christ.
speaker3: speakin' of bad habits, everybody okay?
speaker2: another martini.
speaker4: coffee for me, i gotta slow down.
speaker1: vodka tonic.
speaker4: it was freaky, i'll tell you. stupid kid.
speaker1: what's the kid gonna say - sorry? meanwhile i'm not here anymore. like last week - we were at the morgue and this guy was all chopped up - spleen here - liver there - his heart in a pan. six hours ago this guy was walkin' his dog or buyin' a quart of milk. who knows? but some kid's robbed him for $3 or some and shot him and now you can't tell if he's a piece of beef or a human being and i'm thinkin' that's me. sooner or later. that's me.
speaker2: sooner or later that's everybody.
speaker1: not chopped up. not chopped up like that. i mean, what do i got left? coupla articles. a medal or two. plaque here and there and in a coupla years no one remembers me anymore.
speaker2: i think you're getting a little moody there, eddie.
speaker1: i'm not moody.
speaker2: isn't he a little moody?
speaker4: of course he's moody. he thinks he's in love.
speaker2: in love? with who?
speaker1: how old are your kids?
speaker2: my kids? let's see...susan's 15. aundrea's 9. don't tell me you're thinking about having a kid! how old are you? never mind. let me just tell you this: every stupid cliche you hear about kids - they change your life, they make you a better person, they make you whole... it's all true! before i had kids when friends talked about their kids, i wanted to vomit. now -- i get it. am i right, leon?
speaker4: absomotherfuckin'lutely. you can have all three of my ex-wives. but somebody so much as looks sideways at my four girls -- i'd kill 'em. you haven't seen my youngest have you?
speaker4: yeah?
speaker2: paulie, you've got kids, right?
speaker3: my kids don't talk to me anymore but they were great when they were young.
speaker4: sure it's him? great! unique's home.
speaker1: paulie, i need the cure.
speaker3: step into my office.
speaker2: so you got your kids listening to opera? you still singing in the church on the weekends?

speaker1: okay. you work in a vodka factory. i understand that. and what kind of work do you do? 
speaker2: i am butcher.
speaker1: you're a butcher? what do you use pig intestines for?
speaker2: you stuff sausage in it.
speaker1: and what do you do with the bones?
speaker2: dog food.
speaker1: are you married?
speaker2: no. are you proposing?

speaker1: will you marry me? wanna get married? what are you doin' saturday? 
speaker1: i'm gonna propose.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: tomorrow. at lunch.
speaker2: you ready?
speaker1: the thrill of the hunt. i love it.

speaker1: look. times square. just like in the movies! 
speaker2: don't speak russian!
speaker1: why? why do i always have to speak to you in czech?
speaker1: look. new videocameras. color viewfinder. image stabilization. solarization. night vision.
speaker2: we have no money. come on.
speaker3: where you wanna go, buddy?
speaker2: here.
speaker2: go!

speaker1: so what's unique? 
speaker2: not what. who.
speaker2: he's from antigua. his girlfriend was taking too long to put her make-up on. they were late for a party. stabbed her with a beer bottle.
speaker1: that's unique.
speaker2: yeah. and he still went to the party. leon moves to a lookout - gives him a twenty.
speaker3: top floor. back room.
speaker2: yeah. i make big cases, they make the news and i look good. but the problem with becoming a star is downtown. they shoot at stars. now be quiet. shhh.
speaker2: i hope this doesn't run. my knees are killing me. stay behind me.
speaker1: you're worried for my safety. i'm touched.
speaker1: ready?
speaker2: keep them out of my way.
speaker1: okay. you ready?
speaker2: yeah, yeah.

speaker1: what's your rush? going to a party? 
speaker2: why you chasin' me, man?
speaker1: i don't know. you always come outta your house that way?
speaker2: it's not my house, man. i don't live here.
speaker1: well, sounds like burglary to me.
speaker2: i know you man.
speaker3: any chance we can do that again?
speaker1: again? i didn't wanna do it the first time.

speaker1: turn that off! get the bags. 
speaker2: why should i carry your bag? i am not a dog.
speaker1: for five years i paid for your stupidness - you'll carry my bag for the rest of my life if i say so. unless you refuse, oleg.
speaker1: there. 5rw.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: smell like chemicals...for smoking drugs.

speaker1: emil???! 
speaker2: surprise! surprise!

speaker1: your sister said she didn't know where you were so you shouldn't write to her with return address if you're hiding. 
speaker2: did you hurt her?
speaker1: you know me...i never hurt anybody. where's the money?
speaker3: hello, tamina.
speaker2: take your eyes off her, oleg! look. it wasn't my fault you two were caught. it's his fault. trying to get the bank clerk's phone number?! i wasn't going to wait!!!
speaker1: milos. get my money!

speaker1: we spent it! 
speaker2: ha. ha.
speaker1: look at the way we live. i'm a plumber. you think i'd be working if i had money?!
speaker1: emil. put down the knife.
speaker1: emil. i'll help you.
speaker1: i can get you a job.
speaker2: a job?
speaker1: yes, the money is good.
speaker2: as a plumber?!
speaker1: it's easy to learn.
speaker2: a job?? as a plumber??? you think i come to america to work!
speaker1: we started over, you can too.

speaker1: she saw! 
speaker1: daphne hanlova.
speaker1: six month visa. still here two years later. they'll deport her if she goes to police.
speaker2: what are you looking for?
speaker1: i'm going to make a bohemian barbecue.

speaker1: got any spare change? how 'bout a spare twenty? 
speaker2: look, i don't have time for you, get out of my way!!
speaker1: alright, how 'bout all your money?
speaker2: okay, you're under arrest! now you happy?
speaker1: fire department? firemen don't carry guns.
speaker2: oh yeah? guess again.
speaker2: nice - how many people you ripped off tonight?! get up!
speaker2: you couldn't listen to me, could you?
speaker2: i'll send a cop back for you.
speaker1: hey. c'mon, you can't leave me like this. some freak'll come by and stab me!
speaker1: wait! come back!!

speaker1: lieutenant - take up your line and relieve ladder company 60 on the top floor. 
speaker2: hey, louie, were you first due?
speaker1: yeah, i radioed you guys right away 'cause you got two roasts on the top floor but you don't hafta investigate cause homicide is up there.
speaker2: homicide? who let them up? i didn't make it a crime scene yet.
speaker1: hey, it's eddie flemming.
speaker3: yo, jordy!
speaker3: where you been, man? we got a celebrity!
speaker2: i heard. who the let them up there?
speaker3: i don't know, you think eddie will give me his autograph?
speaker2: you see anything in the crowd? anybody suspicious?
speaker3: naw - i'm sure the suspect's not here.
speaker2: oh yeah, why?
speaker3: 'cause eddie woulda locked him up by now!

speaker1: so, it looks to me - from the sixty-nine position - that they were doin' each other but were so whacked out of their heads they set the pipe on the mattress, lit it up, and they got fried. what do you think, eddie? 
speaker2: i don't know. we got the experts here. show them what you found - i hope you don't mind, we came over to see if we could help.
speaker3: nah, not at all. detective flemming - bobby korfin. my uncle tony worked with you at 2-1 back when you were a rookie.
speaker4: could you put out the cigar? part of the job is picking up scents.
speaker2: oh, sure.
speaker1: well, i found - check it out - crack pipe. looks like they got careless.
speaker1: mind not shining that light in my eyes?
speaker3: sorry, bro.
speaker4: hey, that's great you guys got it all wrapped up, but you don't mind if we go through the routine? it gives us somethin' to do.
speaker2: no, we don't mind. you mind leon?
speaker1: no. go ahead.
speaker4: thanks. appreciate it.
speaker3: okay, jordy - it was a fast fire, we got good patterns - about thirty minutes old.
speaker4: mouth's clean, too.
speaker3: clean?
speaker4: don't blow your nose!
speaker4: the smoke'll permeate your nostrils - burn 'em out. let it run.
speaker3: but you knew that, right?
speaker4: so the way you see it, two crack heads burned themselves up?
speaker1: that's what it looks like to me.
speaker4: and while they're burning up, they're still goin' down on each other? you got to hand it to them.
speaker1: yeah, well, some people got their priorities straight.
speaker1: what was that?
speaker4: evidence. of a homicide.
speaker4: you know what that is, right?
speaker2: no, what is it?
speaker4: why don't you explain it, bobby. hey camello! you mind punching a hole in the floor?
speaker5: no problem.
speaker3: they have not soot in their mouths, which means they weren't breathin' before the fire and that usually means they were deceased - and this piece of cloth that my partner found means they were wrapped up in something, probably doused with a flammable liquid and positioned like this on the bed. to the untrained eye, it looks like an accident.
speaker1: what's he looking for?
speaker2: a timer.
speaker3: here you go. a big double homicide.

speaker1: you see eddie's face when i gave him the timer? wish i had a picture of it. 
speaker2: he knew all along.
speaker1: what??
speaker2: that's why he was so quiet. he was testing us.
speaker3: detective, does it look like a murder?
speaker4: we don't know that yet. it's much too early. there's a lot to be done.
speaker3: how many victims are up there?
speaker4: there are two bodies found at this point.
speaker3: can we go up to the crime scene?
speaker4: you know you can't do that. c'mon.
speaker3: is it drug related?
speaker4: we don't know. when i have more i'll let you know.
speaker3: detective...what's that you're holding in your hand? evidence?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: there was a woman - i think she wanted to talk to us. she looked scared. oh oh no!

speaker1: you bastard! she stripped me! it was a bag lady! she touched me all over, it was disgusting. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm really sorry.
speaker2: you okay?
speaker1: a dog on me!! i'm gonna sue you for this! you violated my civil rights!
speaker2: your civil rights?! you tried to rob me! i could arrest you right now! you're lucky you're walking away from this. now get outta here.

speaker1: so you slept with your son's wife! what's that all about? 
speaker2: i take full responsibility for sleepin' with my daughter in law. i had low self esteem, i thought i had to compete with him.
speaker3: self-esteem? self-esteem??
speaker2: losin' my job and everything, caused my behavioral disorder. forgive me, kirk. let me hug you? the audience boos. roseanne mediates...
speaker3: turn that thing off!
speaker4: i'm not filming. i'm watching milos die. it's just like a move but realer. emil grabs the videocamera. don't break it! don't break it!
speaker3: speak english!
speaker4: you said speak czech!
speaker3: how you erase this?
speaker4: i'll do it. don't hurt my camera!
speaker3: stupid, milos. i didn't want to kill him. what's this?
speaker3: worldly escorts?
speaker5: hi?
speaker3: hello?
speaker5: are you looking for companionship?
speaker4: whore?
speaker3: i'm homesick. you have eastern european girl? a czech girl?
speaker5: matter of fact, i have a lovely czech girl.
speaker3: i take her. send her!

speaker1: now that you know him, maybe you can get extra work in the next movie they make about him. 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: maybe you can be his stand-in.

speaker1: what the is that?? you gave eddie flemming the evidence?! 
speaker2: who did cause and origin?
speaker3: who do you think, chief?!
speaker2: then why didn't you talk to the reporter?
speaker3: 'cause we got more important things to do, like finding out who did it.
speaker2: don't you guys understand? it's all about image. the better we look the more money i get to pay you guys overtime.
speaker4: yeah, right.
speaker2: what was that, korfin?
speaker4: i said, yeah, you're right, chief. as soon as we get somethin' we'll let you alert the media.
speaker2: you do that, wiseguy. now let's solve this thing before eddie flemming does.

speaker1: hey guys, i got your torch. he just gave a full confession. 
speaker2: it's my fire! screw homicide. i'll tell you guys everything!
speaker3: what's that on your forehead, max? that's a nice attention getter.
speaker2: yeah, i'm religious. i'm not an atheist like you! now, are you guys gonna arrest me, or not?
speaker3: how did you start the fire this time?
speaker2: i used an accelerant.
speaker3: yeah? what kind?
speaker2: hey, by the way, i'm really sorry about your wife leavin' you.
speaker4: max.
speaker2: ...yeah, and with your old man dying last year you - what's it? just you and the dog now?
speaker4: max!
speaker2: does it feel bad - i mean the new guy your ex-wife's seeing - i hear he's a big shot downtown.
speaker3: that's it! you're outta here.
speaker2: that's it. i'm suing.
speaker4: get in line.
speaker3: what's so funny. how does he know so much about me? who tells him my life story?
speaker1: he hangs around downstairs. the guys talk to him. he's a joke...
speaker3: he's no joke! one day he's gonna graduate from trash can fires and do something big.
speaker1: okay. okay. we'll ban him from the station.

speaker1: good evening, i'm robert hawkins and this is top story. tonight we bring you an exclusive interview with stephen geller - who horrified the nation two years ago when he went berserk and murdered three clerks in a manhattan shoe store. but now, mr. geller's claim, spoken softly and articulately, is that he is the victim. according to mr. geller, the events of that fateful day were not his fault but were the fault of his psychiatrist. hard to believe...watch. 
speaker2: louder.
speaker2: louder.
speaker3: this had nothing to do with shoes that didn't fit or my relationship with my father who, as you know, made a fortune selling penny loafers in the fifties. these people died because of the criminal actions of my doctor.
speaker1: your doctor?
speaker3: yes. my psychiatrist didn't insist that i stay on my medication.
speaker1: ...so you feel absolutely no responsibility for killing these people?
speaker3: it was my finger that pulled the trigger, but i'm not morally responsible. my psychiatrist knew what i was capable of. how could i know. i'm not a doctor.
speaker1: you seem very savvy for a man who's been found mentally incompetent to stand trial.
speaker3: look, i'm a victim here, too. i was a year away from getting my masters in art, now i'll never graduate. my life has been permanently disrupted.
speaker1: permanently disrupted? aren't you selling paintings now for quite a lot of money? hasn't this 'incident' as you call it, jump started your career as an artist?
speaker3: look, i'm in here. you call this a career move?
speaker1: and isn't there a movie in the works about you?
speaker3: we're in negotiations, that's correct.
speaker1: but doesn't the son of sam law prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes?
speaker3: that doesn't apply to me because i'm not a criminal. i'm not a criminal! i wasn't convicted. emil leans forward - listening. fascinated.
speaker2: i love america. no one is responsible for what they do.
speaker2: get in the bathroom!
speaker4: whatever we do - we her, right?
speaker2: oleg, get in bathroom, stay there and shut up!
speaker5: hi, i'm honey.
speaker2: where's czech girl?
speaker5: baby, i'm anybody you want me to be. i'm a little schoolgirl, i'm mommy, i'm a czech girl.
speaker5: now i like to get business out of the way before we get down to pleasure. why don'tchya put my money on the dresser.
speaker2: i ordered a czech girl. daphne, you know her?
speaker5: it's an outcall service run out of an apartment. i don't meet the other girls. aren't you gonna get undressed?
speaker2: where is service?
speaker5: that's confidential. could you put the money on the dresser?
speaker2: i like to talk to the person who runs the service. can you give me address?
speaker5: look. do we have a problem here? there's no reason to have a problem. i'm gonna make you feel real good. you wanna czech girl? after i'm done with you, you won't miss her. now why don't you pay me?
speaker2: listen to me. i don't want sex. just give me the address and then you go.
speaker2: give me the address!!
speaker5: alright, alright - don't hurt me!

speaker1: what about her cheek bones? 
speaker2: her cheek bones are prominent and her eyes were huge. big, blue eyes and when i saw her, she looked scared. like she was looking to get away. but she was absolutely beautiful.
speaker2: i gotta good look at her.
speaker3: -- from czechoslovakia? and how long have they been livin' in your building? alright, i'll be in touch when we know somethin'. milos and tamina karlova. they were quiet and kept to themselves. landlord don't know who your girl is.
speaker2: how long they been livin' here?
speaker3: you hear that question, garcia?
speaker4: yeah, i got immigration on the phone - they've been here illegally.
speaker3: well, they're definitely permanent residents now.
speaker4: i got the owner of the plumbing company milos worked for.
speaker3: why don't we get some sleep and we'll go see him in the morning.
speaker2: you go home. i'm takin' your car and goin' back to the crime scene.
speaker3: aren't you tired?
speaker2: if i go home i won't be able to fall asleep anyway.
speaker3: she keepin' you up? like to meet her, huh? she'd make you forget your ex wife. cure your insomnia.

speaker1: okay to smoke? 
speaker2: it's your crime scene now. you can do what you want.
speaker1: watch the news?
speaker2: nah, i musta missed it.
speaker1: well, just so you know. i gave you guys the credit.
speaker2: well, just so you know, i don't care about that stuff.
speaker1: nah, why should you?
speaker2: i don't even watch tv.
speaker1: good. good. commendable.
speaker2: did you get a report from the m.e.?
speaker1: sure. but i would like to ask you something. you got a problem with me?
speaker2: if you found me steppin' on your crime scene - it might you off, too. what about the report?
speaker1: you were right, they were both dead before the fire. the male was stabbed so hard the killer broke off the tip of the knife in his spine. that's usually an indicator of something personal.
speaker2: the super said he'd seen her before but she didn't live here.
speaker1: pretty.
speaker2: hmmmm.
speaker1: maybe you don't care about that either. prettiest suspect i've had in awhile.
speaker2: who says she's a suspect?
speaker1: what would you call her?
speaker2: look, i'm not even sure she has anything to do with this. i saw her outside after the fire - thought it was a lead. maybe she saw something. maybe she was visiting somebody here. who knows?
speaker1: obviously they weren't having sex. as you pointed out. so why go through all the trouble of putting 'em like that?
speaker2: maybe it's a ritual thing or someone trying to send a message. burial rites are taken very seriously in eastern europe. it could be to humiliate them. just burning them up, no proper funeral, it's like condemning them to hell.
speaker1: eastern europe. like what? romania? hungary?
speaker2: or czechoslovakia. the slavs have been fighting the germans and the russians for a thousand years. these are very intense people and they take things personally.
speaker1: yeah? where? you sure it was a knife? uh-huh. really? okay. we've got another murder - in a hotel on eighth avenue. a stabbing. clerk said the room was rented by a russian...
speaker2: i'll come with you.
speaker1: there wasn't a fire. there'll be nothing for you to do.
speaker2: i can watch you, eddie. maybe i'll learn something.
speaker1: this isn't homicide school.
speaker2: my parents are from poland. i can help with the eastern european angle.
speaker1: you're polish?
speaker2: my folks are.
speaker1: stay here.

speaker1: this is second day in america. first day was very exciting. full of thrills and chills. over there, is co-star of my new movie, emil! 
speaker2: who is he?
speaker3: new york's finest. this is his case.
speaker3: this all you want?
speaker2: do you know how much killer gets for movie rights?
speaker3: in here, says he wants a million.
speaker2: million?! the killer gets one million dollars for a television interview?
speaker3: hey, tabloids paid ted bundy - famous serial killer - half a million for his interview. and how much you think monica got for writing book about the president coming on to her? it pays to be a killer or a in this country. look, you want magazine or not?
speaker2: yes. both.
speaker1: and these.
speaker2: get a taxi.

speaker1: let me help. 
speaker2: thank you, son.

speaker1: where is she? 
speaker2: takin' a bath.
speaker1: any i.d.?
speaker2: still unknown but we're running prints. kid over there caught the case. jordy enters. leon steps in his way.
speaker2: sorry...pd only.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker3: tommy cullen. heard a lot about you. nice to meet you. here's what we got. a girl in there, figure her to be a prostitute, looks like she was fighting for her life. she's got defense wounds on her hands. right this way - in the bathroom.
speaker1: after you.
speaker3: room was registered to a francis capra.
speaker4: capra? that's not czech or russian. who said he sounded russian?
speaker3: the clerk?
speaker1: check the switchboard, see what phone calls were made from this room.
speaker3: i'll do it.
speaker5: clothes were off in the other room. tub is dry except for the blood.
speaker1: any of you guys take a lately?
speaker1: do the seat for me.
speaker1: only one guys checked in?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: c'mere. you wanna go to homicide school? here - make yourself useful.
speaker1: our killer...our killer's standing here slashing at her. she's fightin' him. the blood is splattering this way. it's on this wall... and there's some specks over here. there's nothing here because someone was standing right here. someone big. and he's got blood on him. lots of blood. he wouldn't walk out of here like that. murphy, what kind of knife you think we're talking about here?
speaker5: if you look here where he missed and hit the wall you see that the marks aren't deep but they're kinda wide... not your everyday kitchen or pocket knife.
speaker1: what if the tip was broken off?
speaker5: could be. then we should find it here somewhere.
speaker1: i think we've already found it.
speaker3: there was only one call from this room last night. i dialed it. it's an service.
speaker2: did you identify yourself?
speaker3: hey, i'm new but i'm not stupid.
speaker1: call communications and get an address on that number.
speaker1: good work.
speaker4: you goin' to the service?
speaker1: you got any better ideas?
speaker4: mind if i ride along with you?
speaker1: this has nothing to do with your fire.
speaker4: but what if it does? you might need my help.
speaker6: hey, eddie, can i get your autograph for my son?

speaker1: i'll let you know what happens. 
speaker2: this is ridiculous. i'm not gonna be in your way - we can talk the case over.
speaker1: tell you what - i'll flip you a coin. if you win you can come with me. if you don't win, you don't come.
speaker2: i'll call it... tails. eddie pulls out a coin and hands it to jordy.
speaker1: okay. i'll call it. heads.
speaker1: heads. see, you lost twice. okay. get in.

speaker1: oh here. a souvenir. 
speaker2: two heads.
speaker1: better than one.

speaker1: who's there? 
speaker2: police. we'd like to ask you a few questions.
speaker1: i have nothin' to say. if you wanna contact my attorney...
speaker1: you! i've seen you on tv!
speaker1: c'mon in. c'mon in!
speaker1: just a minute. and i don't have a camera. hold on a second.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: we don't have her i.d. yet, but one of your girls was killed last night at the king edward hotel.
speaker1: oh my g-d. honey! honey's dead?
speaker3: do you remember the man who called?
speaker1: yeah. he wanted a girl from czechoslovakia, but i sent him honey 'cause once they get there, you know, it doesn't really matter - honey was killed...? poor girl...
speaker2: do you have any czech girls working for you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: did you tell him you did?
speaker1: boy, she's so popular all the sudden.
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: daphne. another guy came in asking me about her, too.
speaker3: this her?
speaker1: yeah. sort of. i tried to recruit her, gave her my card. she said she'd think about it but i never heard from her.
speaker4: beautiful eyes.
speaker2: who came by looking for her?
speaker1: he said he was her cousin. i told him where she works. they were just here.
speaker2: describe him.
speaker1: tall, short-haired, scary eyes. second guy with him was...shorter, with a wrestler's build. and he wouldn't turn his videocamera off me.
speaker2: he had a videocamera? where is she? quickly!
speaker1: she washes hair up at ludwig's - a salon on 63rd and madison.

speaker1: leon - meet us at 63rd and madison. hair salon. ludwig's. 
speaker1: you thirsty?
speaker2: i'm on duty.
speaker1: so am i. alright, i'll go inside and you cover the back.
speaker2: of course.
speaker1: hey! i always wanted to be a cop when i was a kid. i dreamed of running up to a door, kicking it in, pulling my gun and yelling 'freeze!' at the bad guy! what'd you dream about?
speaker2: i wanted to run up to a building on fire, kick in the door, rush into the smoke and save a kid.
speaker1: then i guess we're doin' this the right way, aren't we? if we pull up to a burning building i'll gladly let you go first. jordy looks at eddie - can't deny he's right.

speaker1: daphne handlova? 
speaker2: daphne? in the back. probably shampooing a customer's hair.
speaker3: why are you messing with your hair color again? you're going to kill your hair. you won't look good with black hair.
speaker4: i want to do it, alright?
speaker3: well, then do it after work. a customer's waiting.

speaker1: i...i have a temper. 
speaker1: when i lose it, i lose control. i didn't intend to kill milos but he stole from me. cheated me! when i went to prison, they beat me. i still didn't tell he was my partner. i loved milos like a brother... the tone in emil's voice - there's an uncharacteristic
speaker1: i'm not a killer.
speaker2: daphne, will you be coming back to work?
speaker3: in a minute, ludwig.
speaker1: smart girl. i'm glad you're not a whore. but washing hair? this is no job for a woman as beautiful as you. they should be washing your hair.
speaker1: i don't want to kill you. but if you talk, i will. i thought you'd want these.
speaker4: ...daphne?
speaker4: i'm a fire marshal. you remember me from the other night? you are daphne, right?
speaker5: you don't have to be afraid. we're here to protect you. come with me. we want to talk to you. you speak english alright?

speaker1: did he give you these? was he just here? 
speaker1: the other side of the street. the guy with the videocamera. don't look - put her in the car. stay this side.
speaker2: stay with her.
speaker3: of the scene from across the corner.
speaker4: put the camera down! let's go!

speaker1: split up! 
speaker2: emil, look!
speaker2: perfect! cut. print!
speaker1: are you hit?
speaker3: no. i'm okay.
speaker4: bobby, bobby! where're you hit?!
speaker5: it hurts. aw,
speaker4: lay down. stay down, bobby.
speaker3: he got my gun! was filming the whole time!
speaker1: i know. relax. take it easy. don't worry, we'll get those

speaker1: detective - can you tell us what happened here? 
speaker2: i can't talk right now. we have some things to take care of.
speaker1: i understand, but i noticed that the fire marshall is here with you. is this somehow related to the fire department?
speaker2: i really can't give out any information right now at this point.
speaker1: okay. but i do understand that your partner, leon jackson's been injured. is that correct?
speaker2: he was hurt, but not seriously. he'll be fine.
speaker1: do you have the suspect in custody?
speaker2: um...now is not a good time, okay. detective jackson's hurt. he's fine. i've got a fire marshall shot, detective jackson is hurt but not seriously.
speaker1: alright, cut, cut, cut.
speaker1: eddie, are you okay?
speaker2: yeah. now's not a good time.
speaker1: alright.
speaker2: alright?
speaker1: alright.
speaker2: alright.
speaker1: okay.
speaker3: i told your partner, i can't help. i didn't see anything.
speaker2: c'mon, start at the beginning. you know these people?
speaker3: tamina was a friend of mine. my shower was broken, she let me use theirs.
speaker2: go on.
speaker2: whether you tell us or not, we'll find out. better if it comes from you.
speaker3: if i tell you, will you arrest me?
speaker2: arrest you for what? why would we arrest you?
speaker2: what are you hiding? why are you afraid
speaker4: she just saw two of her friends killed! they probably threatened her.
speaker2: is that all there is?
speaker2: are you here illegally? don't worry about that. we'll talk to immigration. they won't deport you.
speaker3: no, no, don't talk to immigration!
speaker4: why not?
speaker2: something back home?
speaker3: ...my little sister and i shared a flat - i came home one night and a man was her. his gun was on the chair... he came at me and i shot him.
speaker4: alright. that's a justifiable homicide.
speaker3: yes, but he was a cop.
speaker2: a cop?
speaker3: i'm from a small town in slovakia. like the south here. the police is right, a civilian is wrong. so i fled.
speaker2: look, we can help you but right now we have to deal with what's happening here. tell us the truth...is that the truth?
speaker3: you're a cop - you'll never believe me.
speaker4: can i talk to you?
speaker2: she's even if that story is true.
speaker4: raw deal.
speaker4: look - let me talk to her. any leads i get, they're all yours. just let me have a first crack at her.
speaker2: you wanna talk to her alone?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker2: what would your girlfriend think of that?
speaker4: i don't have a girlfriend.
speaker2: my point exactly.
speaker4: i'm serious here.
speaker2: so am i.
speaker4: c'mon. you intimidate her 'cause you're a celebrity. she sees me differently.
speaker2: you're her savior? is she the kid you're gonna save from the burning building?
speaker4: you know what i'm saying here.
speaker2: okay, tell you what, i'll give you a head start. you take her to the station house. don't let her out of your sight. she's the only warm body we got left.
speaker4: hey. i'm a professional.
speaker2: women like that have a way of turning professionals into amateurs. he gives jordy a look and heads for the door.

speaker1: shut up. 
speaker2: does it hurt?
speaker1: this is nothing.
speaker2: oh, i hate looking at that!
speaker1: don't want to film this?

speaker1: now i become custody of police department? 
speaker2: if you cooperate with the da - maybe they'll help you with your situation.
speaker1: i will if they don't send me back.
speaker2: they won't until this is over.
speaker1: are you married?
speaker2: divorced.
speaker1: do you live alone?
speaker2: i can't take you to my place.
speaker1: somewhere else?

speaker1: staring right at us. 
speaker1: i want to talk to you about something serious.
speaker1: i want to live the rest of my life with you...i don't know you've been married before and i've never been married, but i do love you, and...
speaker2: she's here.

speaker1: hey, honey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: what is your problem? why'd you snap at me? i just wanted a statement.
speaker2: i can't...i can't answer you just because you want me to answer you!
speaker1: you didn't have to embarrass me in front of my colleagues. you could give me something.
speaker2: oh, i'm sorry. did i embarrass you, sweetheart? oh...
speaker1: stop it.
speaker2: maybe i should just, ya know...turn to the cameras and say, do you mind if we just work something out?
speaker1: alright, alright, eddie. don't patronize me.
speaker2: i'm not.
speaker1: yes you are. i'm not just some reporter. i don't just stick a microphone in your face. you could give me something.
speaker2: yeah, well you took the camera and put it right down on the evidence. that was...
speaker1: that was good. you were holding the evidence.
speaker2: you were merciless. you didn't give a if you got me or not.
speaker1: well, who was it that taught me how to do that? huh?
speaker2: you're ruthless.
speaker1: you're not so bad yourself.
speaker1: c'mere.
speaker1: look at this. you have blood on your shirt. whose is it?
speaker2: could be leon's.
speaker1: and last week you came over with blood on your shoes. what am i going to do with you?
speaker2: you know, i been thinkin'...these shoes might look nice with another pair of shoes next to them in the closet.
speaker2: you know, nicky, i've been married twice before. my first wife was a professional woman, didn't have time for children. my second wife...i never wanted to go home to her.
speaker1: what are you doing? what are you saying?
speaker1: eddie?
speaker1: don't worry about the phone. i won't answer it.
speaker2: answer the phone.
speaker1: no. tell me what you want to say.
speaker2: answer it.
speaker1: okay. okay. hold that thought just for a second. they only call me when it's an emergency. just hold that thought. can you call back?
speaker3: we need you here in twenty minutes. get in a cab.
speaker1: what're you talking about?
speaker3: katie. we don't know where she is. we can't find her. you gotta anchor the 5:00. this is your shot. come now.
speaker1: what? oh. okay. yeah.
speaker1: oh my g-d, they want me to anchor. they want me to anchor tonight!
speaker2: that's good.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: well, that's great.
speaker1: okay. that is great. but i can't go now, we're in the middle of something here.
speaker2: no. go ahead. you're gonna be great.
speaker1: no. no, listen to me here. i want to know what you're talking about. you know, the shoe thing and the marriages and...
speaker2: i'll tell you tonight. let's do it tonight. as soon as you get back we'll talk. we'll talk.
speaker1: promise?
speaker2: i promise. we'll talk. you'll be great. you'll be fine. go ahead, just imagine that, uh... just look into the lens and imagine you're talking to me.
speaker1: yeah. i'll do that. as long as you're not patronizing me.
speaker2: patronizing you... nay, i love you.
speaker1: i love you.
speaker1: okay, til tonight.
speaker2: tonight.
speaker1: you promise?
speaker2: yeah. i promise.
speaker1: okay. and you know what, i'll swing by my place, grab a couple pairs of shoes and maybe just test them out next to yours...how's that... would that be a good thing.
speaker2: yeah, yeah. good thing.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: see you later. good luck.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: don't be late.

speaker1: the men are out of quarters - practicing putting out fires. 
speaker2: so...the station is empty?
speaker1: yeah. this way.

speaker1: you considered becoming a prostitute? 
speaker2: yes, i considered it.
speaker1: did you ever turn tricks before?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what about back home?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: i came here. i had no money. i knew no one. i couldn't get a job because you have to have a green card to get work. they approached me - i could've made a lot of money. i considered it, but... it's not who i am. they pay me below the table at ludwig's.
speaker1: so you were never a prostitute?
speaker2: what are you asking me?
speaker1: i'm just trying to find out who you are.
speaker2: can you let me go?
speaker1: showers are this way.
speaker2: you could shower with me.
speaker1: i'll uh, i'll get you a towel.

speaker1:  
speaker1: are you alright?
speaker2: i'm not a whore. i'm not a whore.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: you don't know. i'm sorry. i was desperate. that's not me. i shot a cop. can you imagine what they'll do to me when i got to prison?
speaker1: they're not gonna send you right back.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i didn't mean to...i'm glad. actually i'm glad it's over. all this time. hiding. never being able to look anyone in the eyes. always afraid that someone would find out who i was. never trusting anyone... he covers her with the towel, pulling her up.
speaker1: you can trust me.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: the video of milos and tamina - i told you to erase it.
speaker1: i did.
speaker2: and the whore's murder? you didn't erase that either, did you? don't lie, i won't be angry.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: put the camera down, oleg.
speaker1: what is that?
speaker2: what does it look like? it's an address book!
speaker1: let me get a shot of it.
speaker2: sit down!
speaker1: this way. hold it this way. good.
speaker1: why won't you be angry at me for keeping my movie?

speaker1: hey. warsaw. 
speaker2: hey, chief, what are you doing here?
speaker1: i came to see how the investigation was going. i called and you're not here. i wait up at the station and you don't even show up!!! i beep you - you don't return my call. where the have you been?!
speaker2: ladder 20 was on the rock for training. we stopped there... so she could get cleaned up.
speaker1: what do you mean, 'cleaned up?'
speaker2: i let her take a shower.
speaker1: a shower!? did you take one, too?
speaker2: no! nothing happened.
speaker1: oh really. that's nice. you took a homicide witness to take a shower after your partner was shot? are you out of your mind?? are you having that much trouble gettin' dates?!
speaker3: i told him to take her there.
speaker3: tommy, get her outta here.
speaker4: this way, ma'am.
speaker3: there was too much press hangin' around there. i didn't want her face on the news. so i told him to take her to a quiet area until things settled down.
speaker1: oh.
speaker3: it was my decision, not his.
speaker1: well, i'm the deputy chief fire marshall and every now and then i'd like to be included in decisions.
speaker3: look, after jordy briefs me, you can do the press conference. how about that? the case is all yours.
speaker1: oh yeah...? alright.
speaker3: i'm ready to be briefed. excuse us.
speaker1: yeah, sure. beep me when you're ready for the press conference.
speaker2: will do, chief.
speaker2: eddie, i...
speaker3: wait.

speaker1: guys...give me a few minutes? 
speaker2: look, eddie, i'm tellin' you - i didn't touch her.
speaker1: well, you shoulda because nobody's gonna believe you didn't...including me.
speaker2: i took her there for a shower and that's it.
speaker1: just a shower?
speaker2: yeah, just her in the shower. nothing happened. look, i'm sure you probably think i'm a fool and i up, but...
speaker1: no, i don't think you were a fool, i just think you were stupid about it. i mean, to say the least, you outta know better. you don't know her well enough. she's got the potential to hang you even if she suggests that you made a pass at her, it's over. you can deny it all you want, but it will not make one bit of difference. you're dead.
speaker2: i told you, you know, i thought i was doing the right thing, you know, i think she's innocent.
speaker1: well, it's not up to you to decide whether she's innocent or not. don't you understand, that's why you're a professional.
speaker2: but, i mean, didn't you ever go out on a limb for somebody? i mean, you shoulda heard her there. tellin' her whole story...i believed her.
speaker1: how you go out on a limb for somebody is by giving her a number of an immigration lawyer. here, here's a number of an immigration lawyer. that's how you help her. but you can't get involved in her like that. you're gonna jeopardize your career, your life and you're gonna jeopardize my case. and lemme give you another piece of advice. maybe you don't watch tv but i'll let you in on a little secret - the whole world watches television. and when you get out there, they know your face. and the little fame, the little itty bitty fame that i get in this city makes it a lot easier for my job. and i get more done because of it. jordy studies eddie for a quiet beat.
speaker2: why'd you help me back there with the chief? why'd you stand up for me like that?
speaker1: you know, i don't know. i like you. you remind me of a puppy i used to have. he on the rug all the time, but i still kept him.

speaker1: it's flemming...anything turn up? did they check the hospitals? airports? yeah, i hit him! i hit him! we should be all over everywhere - with dogs, choppers, everything! these guys are from czechoslovakia... 
speaker1: i'll call you later.
speaker1: coming!
speaker1: nicky!?!?
speaker1: nicky?!

speaker1: so...who's nicky? 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: your opinion. you see, they going to make a movie about me, too, eddie. and write books.
speaker2: what's your accomplishment.
speaker1: i kill someone famous.
speaker2: then do it,
speaker1: good - be tough to the end. actor who plays you will want to die like hero.
speaker1: so tabloids don't have to do re enactments. they going to have real movie this time.
speaker2: if you kill me and film it you're putting a noose around your neck.
speaker1: turn it off.
speaker1: no. we are insane. who else but crazy men would film their murders? so we kill someone famous and if we are caught, we are sent to mental hospital. but what good is money there? because once in hospital i say i not crazy. just pretended to be acquitted. we see psychiatrists. they must certify we are sane and because of your - what is law called? oh - i got it. because of your double jeopardy law, we can't be tried for same crime twice. we come out free, rich and famous!
speaker3: good idea!
speaker2: you really think you'll be able to fool a jury with this how stupid are you?
speaker1: smarter than americans. you're fed cry baby talk shows all day long. not only will americans believe me, they'll cry for me. so...detective eddie flemming, would you like to say goodbye to your nicolette? maybe you can propose to her now?
speaker1: okay. he has nothing to say. start the camera!
speaker3: cut!
speaker3: this is my project. i say 'action.' i am the director! you are the talent. you wait for me to say 'action!'
speaker3: and...action!
speaker1: bad last moment - i cut that out.

speaker1: awful...what an awful day. he was new york city. 
speaker2: i never got to tell him how much i admired him.
speaker1: i know, son, i know. we all loved him.
speaker3: you know...you know he was gonna propose to me. the crime guys found a card he'd written out to me. and a ring box...these that killed him - have my ring. they have my diamond engagement ring... hawkins touches her shoulder with compassion.
speaker1: i know.
speaker3: what do you mean you know? he told you he was gonna propose to me?
speaker1: well, he...
speaker3: i want to hear everything he said.
speaker1: i'm trying to tell you.
speaker3: alright. go ahead.
speaker1: that morning. he was talking to me and leon about marriage.
speaker3: oh my g-d. we were having lunch here. he started making overtures - talking about little shoes next to his in his closet but i got a call to anchor - and i walked out on him. i walked out on him when he was trying to ask me to marry him!!
speaker3: i'd never had a great relationship before. i'd never made great choices with men. and he wasn't easy to get to know. he was older, my parents told me i was nuts to get involved with him. but he was so great to me. always encouraging, telling me i could do anything... he was the one. you know, i'd give up everything - everything - for just a little more time. i would've spent fifteen minutes with him if that's all i knew i had. she's lost it. hawkins consoles her. nicolette shrugs him off - turns back to her drink. downs the rest of it. a
speaker4: robert...?
speaker1: what are you doing here?
speaker4: you've got a call.
speaker1: i can't talk to anybody right now, can't you see i'm busy! i can't talk business. hang up. have a drink. get her a whiskey.
speaker4: trust me, you'll want to take this call. robert steps off the stool. takes the phone.
speaker1: hello? who is this? how do i know this is you?
speaker1: where?
speaker5: come to 45 broadway. don't bring the police. come alone or you'll be in my next film.
speaker1: look i've been threatened by better than you.
speaker5: no. i'm the best that's ever threatened you.
speaker1: i'll meet you on one condition - i get exclusivity and you surrender to me.
speaker5: we'll talk about that. four o'clock gives you time to go to bank. three hundred thousand dollars.
speaker1: what? it doesn't work that way.
speaker5: if you don't want my film - i'll call another show. and they will show it.
speaker1: wait a minute. wait a minute.
speaker5: come alone. bring cash. and we'll talk about surrendering.

speaker1: how was it? 
speaker2: not good.
speaker3: did the d.a. videotape her deposition?
speaker1: yeah. he finished awhile ago.
speaker3: alright. swing by her apartment. let her pick up her clothes and take her straight to hoover street. you got that?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: chief - mind if i take her?
speaker3: okay. but not water sports.
speaker4: excuse me - jordan warsaw?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker4: consider yourself served.
speaker1: zwangendaba??? is suing you, the department and the city of new york for 10 million? who is zwangendaba?
speaker2: the mugger.

speaker1: are you alright? 
speaker2: i still can't believe eddie's gone.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker1: hello. how are you?

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker1: is he your boyfriend?
speaker2: ludwig? he's gay - are you jealous?
speaker1: if i was your boyfriend, i might be.
speaker2: if you were my boyfriend, i'd suggest you find another girlfriend that isn't going to jail ten-thousand miles away.
speaker1: a good immigration lawyer could stall the process. eddie recommended one.
speaker2: no matter what happens...i'm glad i met you.
speaker1: i'm glad i met you.
speaker1: let's get your stuff.

speaker1: you better get packed. 
speaker2: right.
speaker1: do you have coffee?
speaker2: in the kitchen.
speaker1: i'll make some for us.
speaker2: i'll get my clothes.
speaker2: jordy!!!
speaker1: no! get back! get back!!!

speaker1: don't! it'll the flames toward us! 
speaker1: this is jordan warsaw! we got a 1075, make it quick, we're trapped! 8th avenue and 44th street.
speaker2: oh my g-d! oh my g-d!
speaker2: they were here!
speaker1: calm down. get a hold of yourself! get down!
speaker1: oh
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: pouring it out!
speaker2: oh

speaker1: this is great film! you can see fire right now - daphne is in fire - fire marshal is here. everything is so messy. everything is so crazy right here! look at this fire! we made it! 90% of people who die in fire die from eating smoke. so most likely they all die from eating smoke. 
speaker1: and this is the man who started the fire. say something to your fans, emil!

speaker1: get back! get out of the bathroom! run! 
speaker2: the hallway is on fire!
speaker1: it's okay. i'm a fireman. i'm going to help you. get back! now!

speaker1: jordy! what the happened?! 
speaker2: are you alright, man? lemme see the hand!
speaker3: where's daphne? daphne?
speaker4: isn't she a beauty? she's my fire, look at that loom-up on her!
speaker5: i did this! i did this! take my picture! i'm max! max gornick!
speaker3: get outta here!
speaker2: what the happened?
speaker3: they were inside. they booby trapped her apartment!
speaker6: what the are you talking about??? they're gonna do what?

speaker1: where is he?! where is hawkins?! 
speaker2: he's not on the premises!
speaker3: i want the tape. go get it and bring it here this minute.
speaker2: any request for the video must be directed to "top story's" attorney - bruce cutler. i'll be happy to give you his number.
speaker3: lady, if you put eddie's murder on tv, i'll get a warrant for your arrest and shove it so far up your it'll come outta your mouth!
speaker2: i want your shield number!
speaker4: viewer discretion advised!
speaker2: you want the tape? there it is!
speaker4: what we are about to broadcast is very graphic footage...

speaker1: america! who says you can't be success in america? i arrived with nothing, knowing nobody - now look - i am a success story! 
speaker2: you are success story? i am success story! why do you say i and not we?
speaker1: oleg, don't be paranoid. you got a hundred-fifty thousand dollars, didn't you? i gave you half of what they gave me. look - here we are!
speaker3: good evening. welcome to "top story". tonight, i present to you material of a graphic and violent nature never before seen on television. and i do so with a heavy heart. you will be first-hand witness to the slaying of celebrated new york city homicide detective, eddie flemming. it would be only normal to ask, why? why are we showing something so journalist, i must show it. a democracy survives through the freedom of its media, and if we cannot see what is happening then we don't deserve our democracy, or our freedom. eddie flemming was my friend. i cried when i watched this footage and vowed to fight this violence with every molecule of my being from this day onward. hopefully, this will have a similar effect on you. one final word, this material is absolutely not appropriate for children. the restaurant buzzes. emil checks his watch.
speaker2: in movie they make of us, who do you think would act me?
speaker1: the one who got caught in the bathroom. george michael.
speaker2: i'm serious.
speaker1: shut up. look!
speaker2: this is my project. i say 'action.' i am the director! you are the talent. you wait for me to say 'action.' and 'action!'
speaker1: bad last moment - i cut it out.
speaker1: i told you to cut that out before we handed in the tape!
speaker2: be quiet. watch.
speaker1: die. die.

speaker1: why did you leave that stuff in about you being the director? 
speaker2: because i am the director. don't you realize, if it wasn't for my film, for my talent, my idea to do this - no way would we be sitting here right now.
speaker1: your idea? i thought it was my idea.
speaker1: aren't you just the cameraman?
speaker2: i'm serious...this - this is a great american film. full of violence and sex. and i want my credit.
speaker1: credit?
speaker2: yes. before we hand in the next video - i put titles on it and my credit is going to read - directed by oleg razgul.
speaker1: yes. but there's only one problem - you want credit but the problem is - i don't share credit.
speaker1: you got that?
speaker2: no, i don't get that!
speaker1: you think you are a director? you are a little, small russian piece of and i hate you. i hate you.
speaker1: oh, hello.
speaker1: are you my attorney? i'm emil. i'm insane.
speaker3: i'm not your lawyer until i see the money.
speaker1: here. i have your money.
speaker1: oh no! no!
speaker3: emil. take it easy. stay with me. sit down. what do you need? what are you looking for?
speaker1: he has the camera! he took the movie!
speaker4: don't move! don't move! get your hands up! drop it!
speaker1: i give up!
speaker3: this man is unarmed, officer. he's surrendered.
speaker3: what are you hitting him for?
speaker4: turn that camera off!
speaker1: no. keep filming...
speaker3: don't say anything.
speaker1: where are we going?
speaker3: i'm coming with you.
speaker1: yes. yes, come with me!
speaker4: turn that camera off!

speaker1: i'll take him. 
speaker2: no way! he's mine!
speaker1: we're takin' him. don't argue!
speaker2: he's my collar!
speaker1: well, he killed my partner!
speaker2: he's yours but i take him in! i'll drive him to the precinct, you can have him but i'm walkin' him in.
speaker1: okay, kid, have your 15-minutes. i'll follow you. tommy, you ride with him!
speaker1: you're goin' down, you are goin' down. i'll be there with a smile when they put you down! cutler hurries to emil's side.
speaker3: don't say a word. don't respond to his taunting! he's represented by counsel. you want to speak to someone - you speak to me!
speaker4: out of the way, counselor.
speaker3: don't you put your hands on me, detective.
speaker1: and you, you'll pay for what you did!
speaker5: this footage will work in your favor. when the jury sees this - no matter what cutler tries, they'll convict him.
speaker1: you outta be ashamed. ashamed of yourself.
speaker5: if i didn't put it on somebody else would! i was his friend!
speaker1: don't give me that
speaker6: don't get into it on tv.
speaker1: alright, let's get going!

speaker1: what are you doin'? you're gonna lose everybody! 
speaker1: where are you goin'?? this ain't the way to the station!

speaker1: jordy...??? listen to me. you can't do this. this isn't the way to do things. 
speaker2: were you a fireman? that how you knew how to rig the apartment?
speaker3: my father was. he gave me many lessons about fire. now it's my friend.
speaker2: tommy, take a walk.
speaker1: what are you gonna do?
speaker2: don't you get it? he knew he was gonna get caught! that's why he videotaped eddie's murder - he thinks he's gonna get off.
speaker1: don't stoop to his level!
speaker2: take the car. get outta here, tommy.
speaker1: look, you can't shoot him in cold blood.

speaker1: get your hands up! get your hands up! 
speaker1: you wanna be a real american? go for your gun.
speaker1: pull the gun! you want to be famous? shoot me, you'll get more headlines and make more money.
speaker2: you can't kill me. you're not a cop. just fireman with a gun. i bet you never shot anybody in your life.
speaker1: you'll be my first.
speaker2: c'mon. pull the trigger. do it. oh, look, you're sweating. you don't have the balls.
speaker1: get down on your knees.
speaker1: where's your partner?
speaker2: the sheraton! on broadway! room 210. go get oleg. he'll kill you.
speaker3: gimme your gun, jordy. we all want him dead but you can't do it this way.

speaker1: do you really need me? 
speaker2: keep your mouth shut. don't mess this up.
speaker3: who's there?
speaker1: r-room service.
speaker4: come in.
speaker5: look at that. see that shot! seamless. no cuts. and look. look at that transition. that's filmmaking!! isn't it great?!
speaker2: don't move!
speaker2: drop the girl! drop her!!

speaker1: hey, come back here! 
speaker2: where is he? where'd he go?
speaker1: middle door.

speaker1: kill him! kill the bastard! 
speaker2: shoot him! shoot!
speaker3: look! over here!
speaker4: everybody down! stay down!
speaker4: 

speaker1: ...and the wild chase through times square ended with the suspect, oleg razgul, escaping. the fire department has identified the fire marshal involved in the failed pursuit as jordy warsaw. 
speaker2: in a related matter, mr. slovak's attorney, bruce cutler - famous for handling sensational cases - claims his client is unfit to stand trial.

speaker1: in fact, cutler claimed mr. slovak was not the alleged mastermind behind the murders. according to cutler, mr. slovak was being directed by his partner, who threatened to kill him if he didn't follow mr. razgul's orders. cutler told reporters today that mr. razgul did in fact stab his client. 
speaker2: my client, mr. slovak, is a victim. what's happened is not his fault. emil was under the influence of his partner. at the trial, you'll see that my client will be vindicated...

speaker1: i brought you some letters. it's really fan mail. women mostly. one wants to buy you clothes, another sent a check. another wants a check. 
speaker2: you bring the cigarettes?
speaker1: oh, sure.
speaker1: how're they treating you, alright i want to get the cuffs off... but there's a little bit of a problem. things out there are very negative right now for us. we gotta change that around. perception is very, very important. perception is reality. i know you're not crazy. but it's important that i get that message out. cause that's our only defense in this case.
speaker1: i want you to focus on three things: fear...
speaker1: ...delusions and paranoia.
speaker2: i was all of these.
speaker1: well, you didn't appreciate the severity of it until recently. no question about that.
speaker2: what about oleg?
speaker1: disappeared. they're looking everywhere. maybe he went back to czechoslovakia.
speaker2: no, he is here.
speaker1: don't worry about him. think about yourself.
speaker2: what about my movie rights? book rights?
speaker1: look, i haven't really focused on that kind of thing.
speaker2: what's your cut? how much?
speaker1: i would say...half. half is fair.
speaker2: no. no way.
speaker1: but it's...
speaker2: thirty-percent. no more. or i call another lawyer. this is the biggest case of your life. don't try to negotiate. thirty percent. say yes or no.
speaker1: this is not about money, emil. i need your trust in me.
speaker2: what else do you need?
speaker1: i need to know about your background. i need to know about your upbringing. why you're here.
speaker2: give me another one, please.
speaker1: tell me about yourself. what you did as a young boy... what your parents were like.
speaker2: my father always degraded me. killed my self-esteem. and my mother was blind.
speaker1: your mother was blind?
speaker2: yeah, she went blind giving birth to me. she went to black market doctor to induce me.
speaker1: back in the czech republic?
speaker2: yeah, yeah...bad doctor gave her bad drugs which made her go blind. and my father blamed me for her blindness...
speaker1: your father blamed you for your mother's blindness?
speaker2: yeah, he hated me from day when i was born. put it out. can you put the cigarette out?
speaker2: that's what he did to me. he put cigarettes out on me.
speaker1: your father put cigarettes out on you?
speaker2: out on my back when i was a small boy.
speaker1: can i see your back?
speaker1: oh,
speaker2: i'm abused. don't you think?
speaker1: i don't think it's abuse, i think it's torture.

speaker1: the public doesn't have any idea what we do and now you're going to define our image! this is going to be our rodney king! 
speaker2: what was i supposed to do? the guy tried to mug me. i was gonna send a cop back - i just forgot.
speaker1: forgot? you handcuffed a civilian to a tree?!
speaker2: chief - i know i screwed up - but this guy was no innocent civilian.
speaker1: well this is gonna end your career and probably mine.
speaker2: end my career?
speaker1: how are you going to fight this? maybe if oleg hadn't gotten away and you'd been on the front page, as a hero, this thing would be easier to fight. you'd have the good to weight against the bad! it's unfortunate that i have to make decisions based upon your press coverage but there's nothing i can do! gimme your shield.
speaker2: but chief? over this??
speaker1: there's nothing to talk about. get a good lawyer. you're suspended until your trial.
speaker1: i know you got backup at home. drop it off.

speaker1: look, what don't you understand? we've got a good relationship with the czech's and the state department doesn't want to cause an incident. 
speaker2: but the d.a. needs her as an eyewitness!
speaker1: they've got her testimony on videotape. and even if they do take her to court immediately after she'll be extradited. the czechs want her back. she shot a cop! i mean, christ, man, what if emil slovak and oleg razgul fled to the czech republic? how would you feel if the czechs wouldn't give them back to us?!
speaker1: and just between us...i was married to a redhead. they're a jinx. redheads are like cross-eyed priests. stay away from both. jordy gives him a look.
speaker1: you want to see her - go ahead.
speaker2: we're gonna fight the extradition.
speaker3: forget about me. you have enough problems of your own.
speaker2: ...do you really want me to forget about you?
speaker3: i don't want to drag you down with me.
speaker2: daphne, i...
speaker3: shhhh.

speaker1: ...and today with his partner who he blamed for the crimes still at large, emil slovak will appear in court. his lawyer will argue that he is mentally unfit to stand trial. eyewitness news has also learned that later this month, jordy warsaw will himself be appearing in court. he will be arraigned on charges of violating the civil rights of...zwangen...zwagen... 
speaker2: zwangendaba.
speaker1: everywhere. zwangenbobby..zwangendaba. i got it. i'll do it. let's start again.
speaker3: she starts over.

speaker1: mr. zwangendaba claims to be a direct descendent of the african king from whom he takes his name... 
speaker2: hello? no comment.
speaker2: hello? no!
speaker3: he robbed you?
speaker4: that's right, i encountered him right here. i was just askin' for change an' he whips out his big gun an' pushes me up against that tree, whereupon he takes my money and handcuffs me to it, leavin' me there all exposed...

speaker1: i can't believe this guy got off. unbelievable. 
speaker2: whatever's leftover, keep.

speaker1: ...my client was suffering from a major illness of schizophrenic nature wherein during times of intense stress, as a result of paranoid and psychotic delusions - there was impairment of his ability to appreciate wrongfullness... this is a victory for the mentally ill! 
speaker1: ...before emil boards the police boat and heads for rykers island where he will be checked into the psyche ward, i want to say one last word to you all... as you know, emil was coerced by oleg razgul into committing these murders, yet oleg is still out in the street, a free man, filming gruesome murders... my client and i hope he is brought to justice in the near future.
speaker2: where the is he? it?!
speaker3: you think this is funny?? what the are you laughing at?
speaker1: officer, keep this man back, he's assaulted my client on previous occasions.
speaker3: this is it? this kills the best cop this city ever had and we do nothing?
speaker1: you may not like it marshal, but that's the law.
speaker3: and what about the other victims?? what about their families? he'll end up in some country club nuthouse while his lawyer sells his rights to the movies and we just stand here and do nothing? we let this scumbag walk?
speaker4: be careful. i can kill you. i'm insane.

speaker1: wait a minute, bruce! we've got some interesting evidence, something you should look at! 
speaker1: i have exclusive rights to the original uncut videotape shot by oleg razgul, proving emil slovak was not insane! hard to believe...watch!
speaker2: he knew exactly what he was doing - all of this was planned! it's all here in my movie. emil is not insane. look. look!
speaker3: ...so we kill someone famous and if we are caught, we are sent to mental hospital...
speaker3: traitor!!
speaker2: no. you are the traitor. you are murderer. i am director. action!

speaker1: drop the gun! don't shoot! 
speaker2: i'll kill her! back off! everyone back away from me!
speaker3: let her go. let her go!!
speaker1: no one shoot! lower your weapons! do not fire! no officer will fire his weapon unless i say so! let the woman go!
speaker1: holster your weapons! back away. that is an order! no officers will fire!
speaker2: tell him to put his gun down!
speaker3: let her go! let her go!!
speaker2: if he doesn't lower his gun i'll kill her.
speaker3: let her go.
speaker4: shoot! shoot him!!
speaker2: shut up!
speaker1: no on shoot! no one shoot!! no officer will follow. no officer will shoot!
speaker4: shoot! shoot! shoot him!!
speaker2: shut up!
speaker2: i'll surrender!! i'll surrender if he lowers his gun.
speaker4: don't. don't let him surrender. shoot him!
speaker3: let her go. let her go.
speaker1: lower your weapon. i told you - lower your weapon!

speaker1: i told you not to shoot! no officers should shoot. 
speaker2: i'm not a cop. i'm a fire marshal.
speaker3: he's still alive.

speaker1: a film...by oleg razgul. 
speaker1: how was that?
speaker2: wait a minute. where are you going? learn from eddie. talk to the court of public opinion. take the credit, you need it.
speaker3: no thanks.
speaker2: cut.
speaker2: get a shot of him leaving. then pan to me.
speaker2: well, he wouldn't talk to us, but you saw it.

