speaker1: why do you fight it so hard, earl? 
speaker2: courage to change the things i can...
speaker1: come on, you've been a good boy for a long time, you deserve a little fun.

speaker1: ... and wisdom to know the difference. 
speaker1: living one day at a time, enjoying one moment at a time, accepting hardship as a pathway to peace...

speaker1: ... taking, as he did, this sinful world as it is, not as i would have it. trusting that he will make all things right if i surrender to his will. that i may be reasonably happy in this life, and supremely happy with him forever in the next. amen. the man at the microphone raises his arms to quiet the audience. 
speaker2: i could go on and on about what a great guy earl is, how he cuts his toe nails...
speaker2: ... how he gives freely of his time and money, but let's get earl up here to speak for himself. ladies and gentlemen, i give you a businessman, a philanthropist, a great friend and the evanston chamber of commerce man of the year... mr. earl brooks.
speaker1: thank you all very much. the first thing i would like to say is... i don't even know how i cut my toe nails.
speaker1: twenty years ago when i started the brooks box factory i never dreamed i would one day be standing here.

speaker1: you could see her nipples. at her age she should keep those things hidden. 
speaker2: grant me the serenity to accept...
speaker1: the only thing that would have made this evening more perfect is if jane had been here.
speaker2: she called. she has mid terms coming up.
speaker1: she's dropping out, you know.
speaker2: we'll see.
speaker1: nothing she does is wrong to you, is it?...
speaker1: well she missed a good party...

speaker1: come on, earl, give yourself a break, you know you want to do this. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: you're the 'man of the year', you deserve it. it's not like it's not set up. you already know how to by-pass the alarm, you know how to pick the locks.
speaker2: no, marshall, i said 'no'!
speaker1: i heard you, earl, but you don't mean 'no'.
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker3: you were frowning.
speaker2: i was thinking of what i didn't say in the speech.
speaker3: they laughed, they were touched, i don't think anyone felt left out.

speaker1: they have their dance class tonight. what if we go by and just look at them. there's no harm in just having a look. 
speaker2: no means 'no', marshall.
speaker1: please... pretty please.
speaker2: the food tonight was very good, but i wasn't crazy about the dessert. would you like to stop somewhere and get something sweet?

speaker1: ... labradors are supposed to be nice, or maybe a rescue mutt... 
speaker2: the pound's a pretty sad place; if you want me to, i'll go with you.
speaker1: there's an irish lab i read about, and i think the breeder is...

speaker1: ... i can't do this, i can't do this, i can't do this, please don't let me do this, grant me the serenity to accept the things i cannot change... in the dressing area 
speaker1: i'm going to stay up a while, maybe go to the studio and play with some glazes.
speaker2: okay, i'm going to read. if i'm not awake, wake me when you come back.
speaker1: i thought you were wonderful tonight.

speaker1: oh lordy, earl my boy, i've missed this! we are going to have so much fun! 
speaker2: this is the last time, marshall.

speaker1: don't you dare quit on me, you 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: what the
speaker3: hey, man, don't...

speaker1: these pigs liked to with the blinds open, you should have known that, earl. this is a big mistake for you, earl. 
speaker2: almost like i want to get caught, huh, marshall?
speaker1: well, don't do that. i don't think either of us would enjoy spending the rest of our lives in jail or a lethal injection.

speaker1: please forgive me... please forgive me... 
speaker2: don't even think about it. you know the rules.
speaker2: now go up and make love to your beautiful wife.

speaker1: where the is atwood?! 
speaker2: i called ten minutes ago, they said she was on her way.
speaker1: she doesn't get here soon, these bodies won't even be dead anymore?
speaker3: you looking for the lady cop?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: she's here. she's been sitting in her car right over there for the last half hour.
speaker1: oh, christ.

speaker1: i really hated yesterday, snyder, and then today came along. 
speaker2: what happened to your wrists?
speaker1: i tried to commit suicide.
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker3: eh... i... i don't know, i heard it was because you were drunk and got into a fight with a fish tank.
speaker1: who are you gonna believe? me or the fish?!
speaker3: eh... you.
speaker1: good.
speaker3: she's nuts!
speaker2: and rich.

speaker1: there are some scratches in the side door cylinder. other than that no signs of forced entry. the alarm was armed and we even had to cut the security chains to get in. 
speaker2: this guy hasn't been active for over two years...

speaker1: ... we think he's either dead or in jail on some other charge. this is probably a copycat. 
speaker2: that's why we called you. you're the that tells us peons if we have a simple murder here or something we can dump on you.
speaker1: bite yourself.

speaker1: he always rearranges the bodies, but this is out of character. he has never left them in such a crude position. usually it's more romantic with their arms around each other, kissing, their mouths open, their tongues touching. 
speaker2: so we have a copycat?
speaker1: where are the thumbprints?
speaker1: one his one hers?
speaker2: that's what it looks like.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: the bullets went completely through the victims. the killer recovered the slugs.
speaker1: were these open or closed when you got here?

speaker1: closed. 
speaker2: hmm...
speaker2: it has never been revealed to the public that the thumbprint killer retrieves the slugs.
speaker1: so this one's yours.
speaker2: i don't need this.
speaker2: have you checked the tenants of that building?
speaker1: only a few of them are home, they say they didn't see anything. we checked the whole neighborhood, so far nobody saw a thing.
speaker2: leaving them like this, he must have been angry at them for some reason.
speaker2: where would they keep their vacuum cleaner. a puzzled snyder follows her out of the room.

speaker1: i'll bet you a hundred bucks, snyder, there is no bag in that vacuum cleaner. 
speaker2: i have no idea what you're looking for.
speaker1: he vacuumed the house and took the bag.
speaker2: oh, that is scary smart.

speaker1: okay. 
speaker1: our best hope is if someone in there saw something.
speaker2: detective tracy atwood?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: this is for you.
speaker2: you have been served.

speaker1: you asshole!! i'm in the middle of a murder investigation!! 
speaker2: hey, take it easy lady, i'm just the messenger.
speaker1: goddamit!!
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: my soon to be ex-husband's scumbag lawyer is trying to show me how painful she can make my life if i don't give them what they want.
speaker3: this is not the doctor.
speaker1: the doctor was a couple years ago.

speaker1: are there any new members? 
speaker2: hi, my name is vaughn and i'm an alcoholic.
speaker3: hi, my name is earl and i'm an addict.

speaker1: you're such a hypocrite. if you were honest you would step out there and say 'hi, i'm earl. i killed two people last night and i really got off on it, but i need your help to be cured.' 
speaker2: i'm different marshall, i won't argue that with you. this is the only place that has ever helped me be normal and i've been straight up until last night for the past two years. i'm not going to kill again and i'm not going to quit coming here because it upsets you.
speaker1: yeah but for the next 29 days you're going to have to step out there and say 'hi, i'm earl, i'm an addict.' and everybody will know you fell off the wagon. don't you feel stupid doing that?
speaker2: no. i feel good.

speaker1: this is not the top of the line or the bottom, but for the money we're talking about this is the quality i can provide you. 
speaker1: your packaging is the first impression your customers will have of your product...
speaker2: mr. brooks, your daughter is waiting for you in your office.
speaker1: ... we'd love to work you with on the design. it's fun to challenge our machines. if you check around, you'll find we're not the cheapest, but we are the best.

speaker1: sunday, did jane call and say she was coming? 
speaker2: i would have given you that message, mr. brooks. she has boxes and suitcases downstairs.
speaker1: hold my calls.

speaker1: i'm sorry, daddy, please don't be angry with me. 
speaker2: i can guess what you've done, but why don't you tell me and then i'll decide.
speaker1: i dropped out of school.
speaker2: okay. have you told your mother this?
speaker1: no. i wanted to speak to you first.
speaker2: you'll have to tell her, i'm not going to do that for you, and then together the three of us will decide where to go from here.
speaker1: i've thought a lot about this, dad.
speaker2: i don't know how you know that half way through your freshman year, but...
speaker1: you didn't go to college, dad, and you're successful. i want to come and work for you.
speaker3: she's not telling you everything, she's hiding something.

speaker1: i know. i'm not hiring right now. 
speaker2: just listen to me. what would happen to the business if, forbid, something happened to you? mom would probably have to sell to strangers. i'm willing to start at the bottom, you can treat me as a regular employee, i want to learn everything there is to know about running the box business, and then when the time comes, the business would stay in the family.
speaker1: that's sweet, but you're talking about emotion, not business. in fact your mother and i came very close to selling out last year.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: if we had been offered a little more money, and they may come back to us, we will sell.
speaker2: what would you do without...?!
speaker1: yes?
speaker3: i'm sorry, i know you didn't want to be disturbed, the man in the waiting room insisted i give you this.

speaker1: he said you would find what's inside very interesting. 
speaker2: what is he? a salesman?
speaker1: he won't say. i've never seen him before. i can tell him to go away if you want me to.
speaker2: that's okay.
speaker2: part of spending the four years in college is to...
speaker2: ... eh... to give yourself the chance to find out who you are and what you want to do.
speaker3: i'll talk to mom, but i'm not going back to school.
speaker2: where would you live?
speaker3: to save money i would move back home, but no rules, no curfew, i want to be treated like an adult.

speaker1: mr. brooks allows himself a slight smile. 
speaker2: would you pay for your food, would you pay rent?
speaker3: no, dad, you're a very wealthy man, you can afford to keep me.
speaker2: sunday, would you show the gentleman who gave you the envelope to the conference room, and tell him i'll meet him there and... what happened to the bmw?
speaker3: a friend is driving it across country, it'll be here next weekend.
speaker2: and get jane a cab.
speaker2: call your mother.
speaker3: are you going to give me a job?
speaker2: if it were up to me, and i think your mother will agree with this, you should go back to school.

speaker1: ... i like them! i don't want to lose them! 
speaker1: ... that's why i didn't want to do the dance couple!
speaker2: stop your whining, earl, you enjoyed doing that couple just as much as i did, and look on the bright side, he came to us he didn't go to the cops. if he tries to shake us down we kill him. period. we make it fun but we kill him. end of story.

speaker1: what can i do for you, mr...? 
speaker2: ... let's say, 'smith'.
speaker1: okay, mr. smith.
speaker3: before you get the wrong impression, mr. brooks, i'm not here to shake you down.

speaker1: then these are the only copies of these photos and you have no others. 
speaker2: no. i have other copies and other photos, and if something were to happen to me...
speaker1: how did you find me, mr. smith?
speaker2: you're 'man of the year', mr. brooks. your picture was in the paper. if it hadn't been, i don't know what i would have done.
speaker1: lucky me. what is it that i can help you with?
speaker2: i've been watching that couple for months, they liked to make love with the blinds open. sometimes i would take pictures, you know, visual aides for later. it was fun, it was a great way to get off; i thought, until i saw you kill them. i have to tell you i have never ever felt a rush like that ever. i know you're the thumbprint killer, you've done this before. what i want is to go with you the next time you kill someone. and i would like that to be soon.
speaker3: and you were worried that this was going to be unpleasant. the answer is simple. just tell him you've decided never to kill again and he'll go away.
speaker1: you enjoy watching me suffer, don't you?

speaker1: in a word, yes. 
speaker2: where do you think he has the other pictures?
speaker1: he put them in a safety deposit box but i'll bet the box is at the bank where he has his checking account and the key is on his keychain. he really wants to do this, he's not going to go to the cops.
speaker3: so do we have a deal?
speaker2: from the angle of these pictures... ... you live on the third floor of the apartment building across the alley from the couple's house.
speaker3: well... eh.
speaker2: yes or no, mr. smith?
speaker2: what time do you get home from work?
speaker3: six thirty, seven, depending on the traffic.
speaker2: you can never come here again, you can never call me. do you understand that?
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: tomorrow night, not tonight, tomorrow night, at eight o'clock, leave your apartment and walk east. 
speaker2: if you're thinking of doing anything to me, mr. brooks...
speaker1: we're both aware of the rules, mr. smith, but i feel i must warn you. if it turns out that you enjoy killing, it can become very addictive. it could ruin your life.
speaker2: i want to do this.
speaker1: have i covered everything?
speaker3: i can't think of anything else.
speaker1: i'll see you tomorrow night, mr. smith.
speaker1: please please help me find a way not to do this.

speaker1: we can have a check for that amount in your office by 6 o'clock. 
speaker2: we told you at the beginning what we want and that hasn't changed.
speaker3: you know as well as i do, counselor, if we go to court you're not going to get a million five.
speaker2: i don't know. let's see.
speaker2: this is the front page of yesterday's paper... 'hangman escapes'... eh... now, here it is... 'after torturing the young women, thorton meeks would hang them in public places - church steeples, balconies, freeway overpasses'... your client captured mr. meeks. this is just one example of the cases my client lived through when he was married to your client.
speaker1: your client knew detective atwood was a homicide detective when he married her.

speaker1: but he had no idea of the mental anguish that being in close proximity to her work would cause him. 
speaker2: what about the mental anguish i went through being in close proximity to him. who's gonna pay me for that?
speaker3: we don't need to get into this, tracy.
speaker2: yes, we do. i was the one who paid for everything while we were married, and now i'm being asked to give him a bonus for spending time with me when i've already paid for it in the first place.
speaker4: tracy, this is not a lot of money for you, and you know how upset i was when meeks said that he was going to escape and he would come back and kill you.
speaker1: we're quite willing to find out what a court would think that mental anguish is worth.
speaker2: jesse... darling?... you know the best thing that could happen to me right now? that you get hit by a truck and die.
speaker1: that's it! mr. vialo and i are leaving. you've threatened my client, we're going to ask for a restraining order, and we'll see you in court.

speaker1: the door closes behind them. 
speaker2: that's going to cost you, tracy.
speaker3: it. it felt good.

speaker1: ahhh!!! ahhh!!! ahhh!!! 
speaker2: don't worry, if i were here to kill you, you would already be dead.
speaker2: after you left today, i realized our friendship was a little one- sided.

speaker1: mr. brooks?... 
speaker1: mr. brooks?...
speaker1: wow!...

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker2: ask your daughter what the real reason is she dropped out of school.
speaker3: i keep telling you it's not the reason.

speaker1: you wanted to go to college, you had good grades in high school, your father helped you get into stanford, we're paying a ton of money, if this is not the reason, then please dear tell me the reason. 
speaker2: why does your mother think you dropped out of school?
speaker3: i'm pregnant. and it's not the reason i dropped out. being pregnant wouldn't stop me from going to school if i wanted to go.
speaker2: who's the father?
speaker3: some guy i was seeing.
speaker1: does he know?
speaker3: yes, he's a married man and he doesn't want to have anything to do with me.
speaker1: oh, honey, i'm so sorry.
speaker3: i'm going to have an abortion anyway, so there is nothing to get upset about. i wasn't even going to tell you guys.
speaker2: there will be no abortion.

speaker1: daddy, you are not going to tell me what to do. it's my body and i will do what i want to do with it. 
speaker2: you're right. i'm sorry. i said it wrong. i'm not trying to tell you what to do. i'm trying to say that a grandchild would be a wonderful gift for your mother and me.
speaker3: please, honey, don't have an abortion.
speaker1: would you really want to have a grandchild, even though i'm not married?
speaker2: yes. the child is what's important. we would love it and cherish it completely and help you raise it.
speaker1: if it means that much to you, i'll think about it.

speaker1: well, we were right, she was hiding something. 
speaker2: pregnant's not all of it. she's hiding something bigger. much bigger.
speaker1: you think so?

speaker1: it's not what's here, it's what's not here that's interesting. there's not a trace of anything foreign. if i didn't know better i'd say these people were killed by a ghost. 
speaker2: the autopsy found a tiny piece of plastic in the female victim's brain.
speaker1: we're checking with the ammunition manufacturers.
speaker3: that's a dead end, he bags the gun.
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker3: he ziplocks a one gallon plastic freezer bag to his wrist over the gun. bang. bang. a little bit of plastic is carried by the first slug, the ejected shells go into the bag and it limits the powder residue. i hear you were looking for me.
speaker2: sigy...

speaker1: so far they are mr. and miss normal. 
speaker2: if you find anything, call, it might help me.
speaker3: i received a subpoena from your husband's lawyer for your work records, where you were, date and times for the past two years.
speaker1: that's blackmail.
speaker3: almost three quarters of your cases are current. i can't let that information go into open court. so until you settle your divorce, i'm going to have to put you on a desk.
speaker1: that's also blackmail.
speaker3: that's one of your big problems, atwood, you don't know how to ask for help.
speaker1: do you know what he did to me?
speaker3: you can't grow old as a woman without having at least one lousy man in your life.

speaker1: i was so stupid. while we were married, while i paid for him to live, the son of a every woman he could get his hands on. he my friends, he even a cousin of mine. everyone knew but me, and they were laughing at me behind my back. he made me look like an i was a joke. 
speaker2: and?...
speaker1: and what?
speaker2: get over it.
speaker1: i made him an offer. i'm not going to give him one red cent more.
speaker2: i hear what he's asking for, you could take out of pocket change. do that and go on with your life.
speaker1: i couldn't live with myself if i did.
speaker2: i'll spread your work among the other guys and the fbi will be here on thursday... ... they'll take over this case.
speaker1: please, these are my cases. nobody knows them like me. don't give them away and don't give the thumbprint killer to the fbi. he's killed people in twelve other states, let them up those investigations.

speaker1: you heard meeks escaped? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: do you want a detail on you in case he comes after you?
speaker2: i can take care of myself.
speaker1: you're a good cop, tracy, i don't want to lose you, but you have to help me if you want me to help you.

speaker1: how did you know where they were in the house? 
speaker1: it's darker tonight than it was on your night. but still how did you manage not to bump into the furniture? did you have a little light? that would be too dangerous. i'll bet you were in the house before.

speaker1: once again, how did you know where they were? did you check the rooms before you found them? she had his in her vagina, they had just made love, did you hear them or was there a light on? 
speaker1: and when did you bag the gun? because even though i'm sure you're an expert at it, there's still a chance of noise from the plastic.
speaker1: was the door open or did you have to open it?
speaker1: were they asleep or awake? was the light on, or did you turn it on? because i know you, you wouldn't risk a shot in the dark.
speaker1: too bright. what if it wasn't that light that was on, but this one?

speaker1: that's better... what thrill do you get by killing people? is it sexual, is it hate, is it power? do you feel remorse? probably that part of your brain doesn't exist. do you have emotions of love or affection or joy? or have you learned to fake them so you won't stand out in a crowd. 
speaker1: what if these are stuck closed because you yanked them closed? which means they were open when you came into the room.
speaker1: if mr. and miss normal made love with the curtains open and the lights on, someone in that building noticed them and may have seen you.
speaker1: was that what you were angry about?
speaker1: thank you for your time.

speaker1: oh! you scared me. 
speaker2: i'm sorry... ... i was about to knock. i'm detective atwood with the chicago police.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: are you a photographer... mr. baffert?
speaker1: no... eh, it's kind of a hobby, i just started.
speaker2: i don't know if you're aware but there was a murder...
speaker1: oh, yes in the house across the alley...
speaker2: did you happen to see anything unusual or suspicious that night around that house? anything at all?
speaker1: no... i wondered that when i heard what happened, but... no. i'm sorry, i'm meeting someone and i don't want to be late.

speaker1: he looks clean. he looks like he's alone. 
speaker2: no, i'm telling you he wants to do this.
speaker1: i guess i should turn around and go pick him up.
speaker2: nah. just honk. maybe he'll get killed crossing the street and save us the mess of doing it.

speaker1: woof! it's really coming down out there. 
speaker2: they say it'll be sunny tomorrow.
speaker1: i never trust those guys, when they say it's going to be clear it always rains and when they say it's going to rain, it's sunny.
speaker1: here's what you asked for.
speaker2: the pictures and the memory card all here?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: you and i both know that not all the pictures are in here and you made a copy of the memory card, isn't that so?
speaker1: but you understand my position.

speaker1: yes, i do. but it's my hope that once you get to know me better you'll feel comfortable in giving me all that i've asked for. 
speaker2: that sounds fair. oh, i almost forgot. i thought you might be interested in this.
speaker2: it's the policewoman who's looking for you.
speaker3: wow! we've never known anyone who's looking for us before.
speaker3: we've got to find out everything there is to know about this woman.
speaker1: this is too close, marshall, too close.
speaker2: so, what do we do now? what's the plan for the evening?
speaker1: we drive around until we see someone we think we might enjoy killing.
speaker2: really? that's it? i thought you might already have someone in mind.

speaker1: i don't enjoy this, mr. smith. i do it because i'm addicted to it. and before you entered my life i had vowed i would never kill again. so this is your party, you can chose anyone you want and we'll do it together. 
speaker2: can it be someone i know?
speaker1: you never kill someone you know. that's the easiest way to get caught.

speaker1: i wasn't in town that night, my roommate was, maybe he saw something. 
speaker2: may i speak to him?
speaker1: he's on his way to tokyo now, he's also a flight attendant.
speaker2: did the victims ever leave the curtains in the bedroom open?
speaker1: all the time. i don't know if they thought we couldn't see them "fucking" or they didn't care.

speaker1: here's my card, could you ask your roommate to call me when he gets back, the people at that number will find me any hour of the day or night. 
speaker2: i won't be here, but i'll leave him a note.

speaker1: ... i buy one of those locks and i practice on it, same with the alarm... some i know how to bypass, some i have to study. 
speaker2: you don't mind me asking these questions?
speaker1: no. this is your first time, you're interested. and you should be if you're...
speaker2: 

speaker1: him!! it was his fault!! what an asshole!! 
speaker2: maybe mr. smith would like to kill the driver of the pickup.
speaker3: what about the driver of the pickup? what if we killed him?
speaker1: oh, yes!! i've always wanted to kill someone who with me in traffic.
speaker3: do you want to kill the driver of the pickup or the owner, they may not be the same.
speaker1: the driver.
speaker3: okay we'll follow until we get a look at him, or her; would it bother you to kill a woman?
speaker1: no. an asshole's an
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker3: the shouldn't know we've decided to follow him, or her.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: it's tracy. can you carve out some time for me tonight?... i'll be home in an hour and a half. i'll see you there.

speaker1: would you recognize him if you saw his driver's license picture? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i've memorized the license number, you write it down. when you get home go on the internet and find out everything you can about this guy.
speaker2: we aren't going to kill him tonight?
speaker1: no. we could, but then we wouldn't be in control. we could leave loose ends, and we both know the danger of that.
speaker2: i got it.
speaker1: look at me.
speaker1: close your eyes. what's the number?
speaker2: vf... eh...
speaker1: don't feel bad, i've been doing this a long time... pen, paper. write it down.
speaker2: what was your first time?

speaker1: you really don't want to know that much about me, mr. smith. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: hi. i brought a dress and a pair of shoes. i thought we could leave from here.
speaker2: great idea.

speaker1: i did something like that except i was the one who took the test. it wasn't math, a friend of mine was a theology major and needed a second language to get into the master's program... 
speaker2: she started her career in theology with a lie?!
speaker1: isn't that what all theology is based on?
speaker2: did you pass the test?
speaker1: oh yeah...
speaker2: don't tell me she ended up as mother teresa or the pope.
speaker1: no, she realized very quickly there wasn't enough money in religion for her, the last i heard she'd written a diet book that was very successful.
speaker2: she stayed in religion.

speaker1: thank you, this was wonderful. 
speaker2: for me too.
speaker1: i'll see you then?
speaker2: i'd like that. the money is in the usual place.
speaker1: it's not just the money, tracy. i like you.

speaker1: i like you too, larry. send me a bill for the dress and the shoes. 
speaker2: i will. good-night.
speaker1: good-night.

speaker1: i think that was right. go back. 
speaker2: we're in.
speaker1: with the taxes we pay, you'd think they could make it more difficult to hack into the police personnel files.

speaker1: .... huh... her father's gerald atwood, why does that ring a bell? 
speaker2: someone you did business with, someone we killed?
speaker1: not someone we killed... mba... college of william and mary... she's been a cop for eleven years... married doctor carlson, divorced dr. carlson, married jesse vialo... restaurateur... separated from jesse vialo, sued for support by jesse vialo, seeing a shrink because of jesse vialo...
speaker2: excellent fitness report though.
speaker1: she caught the hangman, the guy that escaped the other day...
speaker2: oooh... she's caught a lot of people... and look here, this isn't the first time she's been hunting for us.
speaker1: i wonder what the deal was with her and jesse vialo?

speaker1: ahhhh... now i remember. her father, gerald atwood, never did business with him but emma and i met him a couple times, big political fundraiser. he owns or owned one of the largest insurance groups in the country and a lot of other stuff. 
speaker1: jesse vialo... good looking, a little younger than she is.
speaker2: younger, restaurateur... she married him on the rebound from the doctor and i'll bet he married her for her money and her connections.
speaker1: the old man being rich doesn't mean she's rich. maybe he's one of those guys who would rather give it to the opera than to his kids.
speaker2: wouldn't she have to declare any outside income and holdings to the police?
speaker1: hmmm...
speaker1: the opera didn't get much.
speaker2: why would a woman with her education and worth 60 plus million dollars and probably more to come, want to be a cop?
speaker1: i like that about her.

speaker1: you're such a snob, earl. 
speaker2: no, i like her because she found something that's hers. it's not the family business. and she's good at it. i'd like jane to find something that's hers and that she could be good at.
speaker1: that's exactly why atwood scares the out of me. she's a cop who doesn't need the money and she's looking for us. that's one dangerous human being.
speaker2: the fact that you're not wrong doesn't make me admire her any less.

speaker1: hi... 
speaker2: hi. i got you a latte.
speaker1: thanks and thanks for meeting me here.
speaker2: we got an injunction to quash the subpoena for your work records yesterday. they've already appealed.
speaker1: that doesn't help me does it?

speaker1: your father has a lot of political muscle. 
speaker2: my father does nothing for nothing.
speaker1: i understand. if you're willing to play the game and ride a desk for a year; i think we can settle for one two five, one five.
speaker2: no desk.
speaker1: then the only other option is money. tell me how high you are willing to go.
speaker2: one five.
speaker1: i can try. if i were on the other side i'd hold out for more.
speaker2: how much more?
speaker1: give me a cap and that's how high we'll go.
speaker2: try and get a number out of them first. i want to know what ballpark i'm playing in and if it's a lump sum, is it less than something that's paid in installments.
speaker1: i'll call them today.
speaker2: i'd like to get this done as soon as possible.

speaker1: are you working on the thumbprint killer this time? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: that one's creepy to me. the doors are locked, the alarms are armed and the people are dead. it makes you feel like you're not safe anywhere.

speaker1: where are you parked? 
speaker2: i'm right over there.
speaker1: i'm down the street. call me as soon as you have something.
speaker2: oh, tracy... i almost forgot, your husband says there's a picture of him holding some trophy that you still have.
speaker1: he took all those pictures. he took everything.
speaker2: he claims it's his favorite picture and you put it up where you store your suitcases.
speaker1: i'll look.

speaker1: i already know where i'm gonna hang you. but first i'm gonna watch her... ... have some fun with you, then she's gonna watch me have some fun with you. 
speaker1: now, don't move.
speaker1: you know the drill, i'm gonna put the cuffs on.
speaker1: now the left.

speaker1: we found the van in an underground lot about two miles from where they left you. it was stolen last night. 
speaker2: these are the women we have pictures of who know meeks.

speaker1: meeks and the woman, none of the attendants remember seeing them. 
speaker2: that chiropractor, alvin griffin, who sold meeks his steroids, he might know where he is.
speaker1: his phone's been tapped since meeks escaped. no contact that way so far and he's sure not going to talk to us.
speaker2: what about a warrant to search his house? get me in the door and he'll talk to me.
speaker1: how's your divorce going?
speaker2: i took your advice and told my lawyer to settle.
speaker2: none of these is the woman in the van.
speaker3: whoa... i'm sewing up your head here.
speaker2: sorry.
speaker1: and your ego can handle that?
speaker2: it doesn't like any of the other choices.
speaker1: until meeks is caught, snyder is with you.

speaker1: nothing personal, snyder. he's not part of our team. 
speaker2: he's there to protect you. and listen to him, he's been alive longer than you have.
speaker3: i didn't volunteer for this, atwood.
speaker2: the parking lot has a security camera. we're checking the tape. if meeks and the woman left in a car we'll have a license number. you have two days then i want a progress report on your divorce.
speaker1: i think i have all the pieces on the thumbprint killer, i'm just not looking at them the right way.
speaker2: okay, you have three days.
speaker1: every babysitter i ever had loved me.

speaker1: maybe he went home with someone else. 
speaker2: can you still see his pickup?
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: this is not the kind of guy who leaves his pickup in an unguarded lot overnight. the silence returns.
speaker2: where do we know that guy from?
speaker3: you really should pay more attention to what you read, earl.
speaker2: that's what i have you for, marshall.
speaker3: his picture was on the front page of the paper a couple days ago because he escaped from jail. he's the killer they call the hangman.

speaker1: ahh... 
speaker2: remember that cop you like, atwood, who's chasing us, she's the one who put him away. i think his name is thorton meeks.
speaker1: well, well, well... what would life be without surprises?
speaker3: there he is!
speaker3: you know what's weird? i'll bet he has all these plans of what he's going to do tonight and tomorrow and he doesn't know he will already be dead and won't be able to do any of them.
speaker1: i don't think i want to kill this guy.
speaker3: what?! but you promised we would!
speaker2: oh, i love what you're thinking.
speaker1: you have no idea what i'm thinking.

speaker1: oh yes i do, and it's wonderfully twisted. 
speaker2: i know i said we would, but i don't think it would be that much fun.
speaker3: so just like that, you're saying 'no', it's not going to happen.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: i see.
speaker1: you get the number?
speaker2: i got it.

speaker1: mr. smith wants you to notice he's pouting. 
speaker2: yeah, i know.

speaker1: i know you're upset, mr. smith, and i'm sorry. 
speaker2: yeah, i am upset.
speaker1: maybe i was a little abrupt back there, but let me explain. finding someone you think would be fun to kill is a bit like falling in love. you meet a lot of candidates, and you like some of them and they're nice, but they're not right; and then that special one shows up and your heart beats faster and you know that's the one. the man in the pickup did not make my heart beat faster.
speaker2: okay, he did not make your heart beat faster. if not him, who?
speaker1: i don't know, i think i have someone in mind.
speaker2: do you need me to do any work on it?
speaker1: no, let's see how it plays out.
speaker2: you see? that's my problem. that makes me feel like i'm being jerked around, mr. brooks. i thought it was happening last night, then it was happening tonight. and now it's "let's see how it plays out".

speaker1: i promise you, it will happen. 
speaker2: when? that's what i want to know, mr. brooks. when?
speaker1: tomorrow night, same time. when you come out of your building, turn right, go to the first street you can go west on, i'll pick you up on that street.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: i want to do this. but if it drags on too long, i could change my mind.
speaker1: don't you think i want to do this, mr. smith?
speaker2: maybe you don't anymore.
speaker3: even if that guy was charming and funny i still wouldn't like him.

speaker1: hi, what can i do for you? 
speaker2: i'm detective smolny with the chicago police and this is detective carfagno, from palo alto, california...
speaker3: we'd like to speak to jane brooks, if that's possible.
speaker1: jane is my daughter, what's this about?
speaker3: there was a murder at stanford not long before she left. she may be able to help us.
speaker1: is she a suspect?
speaker3: not at this time. we simply would like to ask her some questions.
speaker4: is your daughter here?

speaker1: yes... she is. 
speaker2: the questions won't take long.
speaker1: i'm sure you would have no objection if she had an attorney present.
speaker3: that's fine. here's my card. we can schedule a time for later today or tomorrow for her to come in to see us.
speaker1: if you gentlemen can wait, i will call my lawyer right now and see what we can work out.
speaker3: oh, that's even better.
speaker1: would you like some coffee?
speaker3: thank you.

speaker1: we both knew she was hiding something bigger, i certainly didn't think it was this big. 
speaker2: she's not a suspect, marshall. she may not have anything to do with it at all.

speaker1: did jane ever tell you that there was a murder at her school? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: nothing? not that a friend died or someone she knew died? or someone in her dorm died?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: there are two detectives downstairs, one is from palo alto, they want to ask her some questions about a murder that occurred shortly before she came home.
speaker2: oh, my gosh! i'm sure if she was close to someone who was murdered, she would have said something.
speaker1: i called roger, he suggested a criminal attorney, they'll be here within the hour.
speaker2: i'll get dressed.

speaker1: mr. clifford, it was a pleasure. thank you for coming on such short notice. 
speaker2: there won't be any more dropping by like they did today, they'll call us first.
speaker1: thanks again, roger. it was a good idea to hear what they wanted to know sooner rather than later.
speaker3: we'll talk.
speaker1: yup.

speaker1: you did good, kid. your answers were clear, concise and honest. and when they tried to trip you up, it didn't work. 
speaker2: i hope so. i'm not feeling so well.
speaker3: should you lie down?
speaker2: i think i'd better.
speaker1: try and get some sleep.
speaker2: i'm sorry i didn't tell you about it, daddy. it was horrible but i really didn't know the guy that well. it happened at about the same time i found out i was pregnant, and it just went out of my mind.
speaker1: i understand.

speaker1: help me. what do i do? 
speaker2: she did it, didn't she?
speaker1: yeah. it'll take the cops a week to ten days to put their case together and then they'll come back and arrest her.
speaker2: what are you going to do?
speaker1: i've been afraid of this since the day she was born. she has what i have.
speaker2: yes, she does. but you've always been smart about it. she was stupid. she did it because she got off on it, she did it for fun. why didn't she think it through? a hatchet! and she left it there!!
speaker1: they were pretty graphic, weren't they?
speaker2: that was to shock her into making a mistake.

speaker1: what does she think i think? doesn't she remember what she told me? that the bmw was being driven across country by a friend and now right in front of me, she tells the cops it was stolen. 
speaker2: you've always cleaned up after her, whatever she did, all her life.
speaker1: if the bmw has anything incriminating in it, i hope it was stolen or she dropped it at the bottom of a very deep lake.
speaker2: do you think she knows what kind of trouble she's in?
speaker1: i think she thought she had gotten away with it until the cops showed up. i should have listened to her, it was there. she was telling me. 'i didn't quit school because i was pregnant'. i should have dug deeper.
speaker2: and where would you be but at the exact same place you are now. it is not your fault, earl. part of your problem with her is that you always think it is.
speaker1: she has what i have, marshall. so on a very basic level, it is my fault.
speaker2: what are you going to do?
speaker1: maybe the best thing for her would be to let her go to jail.
speaker2: and what about her child?

speaker1: emma and i would raise it. 
speaker2: you might be right, earl, you might be. because you know if she's not stopped, she's going to do it again. and if she wants to take over the box business, the next victim could be you.
speaker1: i don't think she'd go that far.

speaker1: we found traces of this in two places. 
speaker1: here and here.
speaker1: we did an analysis and it's made up of feldspar, alumina and kaolin.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: a high fire stoneware clay.
speaker3: like you make ashtrays and vases from?

speaker1: this is more plates and teacups. it was slightly wet when whoever it was tracked it into the house and it stuck to the carpet fibers. 
speaker2: it could have been tracked in by a friend.
speaker1: that's the thing, you see, the friend would have had to have been there almost at the same time the killer was. otherwise the samples would have been dry and the killer would have vacuumed them up.
speaker2: is the clay rare, is it difficult to get?
speaker1: you can buy it almost anywhere.
speaker3: that's not much help, sigy.
speaker2: and this is the only incongruity you were able to find in the whole house.
speaker1: we've done everything we know how to do. it sure doesn't break the case wide open, does it?.
speaker2: no, sigy, it doesn't. it does give me an excuse to ask someone some new questions.

speaker1: before you open your mouth, be very sure this is the right thing to do. 
speaker2: i will never be sure.
speaker1: you get at me because i'm always the one arguing to go ahead and do murder. not this time, earl.
speaker2: i know it's wrong. in my heart i know it's wrong.
speaker1: then don't do it. go with mr. smith tonight and end that, then let the police put jane in jail. hopefully that will save her and we can happily go on with our tortured lives.
speaker2: that's exactly what i want to do. that's exactly what i should do. the thing is, she's my daughter and i love her.
speaker2: i'm going home. cancel everything for the rest of the day. i might be in tomorrow afternoon. i'll let you know about that.
speaker3: i'll take care of it.
speaker2: if you need me, need me, call my studio, that's where i'll be.

speaker1: i probably won't pick up, just leave a message. 
speaker2: i'll try not to bother you.

speaker1: the thing that bothers me about this, besides the fact we're not prepared, and a multitude of other things, is what does mr. smith do when he's walking west tonight and you don't show up. that little freak could flip out. 
speaker2: i'll take care of it on the way to the airport.

speaker1: not - able - to - meet - mr. smith turns the page. 
speaker1: - tonight - do - it - same - turns the page.
speaker1: - time - tomorrow - turns the page.
speaker1: - night - don't - be - stupid -.
speaker2: you!

speaker1: you remember me? 
speaker1: would you step out of the car, please, i want to talk to you.

speaker1: so mr. baffert, what is that you have to tell me? 
speaker2: what do you mean? i don't have anything to tell you.
speaker1: really? because i was driving around and i got this sudden feeling that you had something to tell me about the murders.
speaker2: no. nothing.
speaker1: that's disappointing. because when i left you the last time we talked, i felt i had missed a clue that was right in front of me that would solve this whole case.
speaker2: i don't know why you would feel that.
speaker1: didn't you tell me you were an amateur potter, that you made bowls and vases?

speaker1: no, i said i was an amateur photographer. 
speaker2: are you positive? because we found potter's clay on the carpet of the murder house and i was sure you said to me that you worked with clay, that you made pots.
speaker1: no. i said my hobby was photography, not pottery.
speaker2: maybe that was it. the stewardess upstairs said the victims kept their curtains open when they made love. could i see some of the pictures you took of that couple?
speaker3: don't - be - stupid -.
speaker1: you are harassing me, detective atwood. you know very well i'm not a potter and i don't have any pictures! so my feeling is that your feeling is wrong and that you should move your car and let me go home.
speaker2: what is your job here? what do you do?

speaker1: i'm a mechanical engineer. 
speaker2: you have to be pretty smart for that, don't you?
speaker1: i guess.
speaker2: then be smart, mr. baffert. you lied to me right there at the end. i'll be watching you. and when you want to tell me the truth, you know how to get in touch with me.
speaker2: see you later, alligator.

speaker1: goddamit... 
speaker2: captain lister got us the search warrant for meeks' chiropractor.
speaker1: good. goddamit!, that guy knows something... he almost told me and then something happened.
speaker2: you think he did it?
speaker1: i don't think it's that simple.

speaker1: here you are, sir. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: grant me the serenity to accept the things i cannot change, courage to change the things i can, and wisdom to know the difference...

speaker1: we have a dead woman in here. 
speaker2: hey!
speaker1: i thought you were behind me.
speaker2: the living room is clean.

speaker1: snyder, meet mona. 
speaker2: i called it in.
speaker1: do that outside.
speaker1: meeks did this.
speaker3: i thought meeks hung people.
speaker1: meeks is a steroid freak. this refrigerator was always full of steroids. mona was alvin griffin's niece, receptionist, lover and keeper of the keys.
speaker1: well, the steroids are certainly gone.
speaker3: you think meeks has alvin with him?

speaker1: meeks thinks alvin turned him in. 
speaker1: let's go see what's in the rest of the house.

speaker1: how do you feel? 
speaker2: dirty.
speaker1: that's understandable. you've never killed for this reason before. the feeling will go away.
speaker2: i don't think so. it's the whole thing, marshall. if i could find a way to just disappear, where there was absolutely no trace of me; because eventually i will get caught doing this. and it'll be very embarrassing for me and emma and jane. so i've been thinking... is there a way that mr. smith could kill me and make me disappear.
speaker1: number one, mr. smith is not smart enough to do that. number two, there is no reason, if you're careful, to believe you will ever get caught.
speaker2: i know i will have to plan it for mr. smith, but i think that's what i want to do.
speaker1: i'm not particularly fond of that plan, earl. remember if you die, i go with you and i like being alive. i like eating, i like fucking, i like killing.

speaker1: i have to end it, marshall. one way or the other. and i think this is the best way. 
speaker2: well you then.

speaker1: you worked all night. 
speaker2: i had ideas for pots that took too long and the clay kept winning... i'll be fine.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: hi tracy, this is nancy tang. we received a counter offer. are you sitting down?

speaker1: never. how long can you stall them? 
speaker2: they know you want this done quickly, so they're going to expect a quick counter offer.
speaker1: i need two days. wait two days before getting back to them. if they call, tell them it's a big number, i'm thinking about it.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: and the picture he wanted...
speaker1: ... tell him i couldn't find it.

speaker1: earl... earl... 
speaker2: huh?...

speaker1: oh, hi, daddy, i thought you'd already be gone. 
speaker2: roger called. there was another murder last night near stanford.
speaker1: oh...
speaker2: done the same way as the one they talked to you about. right down to the hatchet being left at the scene.
speaker2: they think they have a serial killer. obviously you were here last night, so you're in the clear.
speaker1: that's good news, isn't it? i mean even if you're innocent it's good news to know you're not a suspect.
speaker2: oh, yeah. how's the morning sickness? do you want to ride in with me today?
speaker1: i feel fine, but i don't know how long that will last.

speaker1: do you love me, jane? 
speaker2: of course i love you, daddy, you're my father.
speaker1: have you decided whether or not to keep the baby?
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: what are we doing? 
speaker2: 'are we there yet?' , are we there yet?' , you sound like a child.
speaker1: we've been following this guy all day, he's boring, and everything we run on him comes up clean.

speaker1: if it didn't, it wouldn't be called a hunch. 
speaker2: meeks' finger-prints were all over the chiropractor, the note, refrigerator, he's the guy we should be looking for.
speaker1: look where? please tell me. everyone knows who meeks is and is looking for him. the chiropractor was the last link to his old life that i know of. the only way we'll find him, now, is if someone turns him in or we trip over him at a bus stop. on the other hand, detective snyder, no one knows who the thumbprint killer is or where he is. however, i have a hunch this guy baffert does. i have two days to play that hunch. if you feel like you're wasting your time with me, i'd be happy to do it alone.
speaker2: i had a fight with my wife this morning; what's your problem?
speaker1: my husband wants five million dollars.

speaker1: lister is pulling you off this case. 
speaker2: why?!
speaker1: maybe they caught him.
speaker2: no. she would have said that.
speaker1: you want to keep following him?
speaker1: lister only said you were off the case, not me.
speaker2: good thinking, tonto.
speaker2: she just 86'ed you too.

speaker1: is she in? 
speaker2: she's with someone.
speaker1: good.

speaker1: you promised if i settled my divorce i had three days on the thumbprint killer. i have the rest of today and tomorrow left. 
speaker2: detective atwood, meet fbi agents longnecker and campbell, they're taking over your investigation.
speaker1: you promised you would keep them out of it for three days.
speaker2: they won't allow me to keep that promise.
speaker1: this is my case, what you're doing is but since i can't stop you, and she won't, here's a tip. james baffert, you should stake him out, he knows something.
speaker3: we have some other ideas we are looking into.
speaker1: then what's the problem? you do that and i'll tail baffert.
speaker3: thank you for all your good work, detective. this is our case now.

speaker1: mr. brooks is at his desk. 
speaker2: it's time to go.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: dear emma and jane, my loves, i have a terminal illness and instead of subjecting you to my deterioration, i have decided to disappear. don't try to find me, i don't want to be found. please believe that the time i spent with you brought me the greatest joy of my life. love. dad.
speaker2: so you're going to go through with it.

speaker1: i smell gun oil, a gun oil that's different than yours. 
speaker2: he brought his gun. after he gets what he wants he plans to kill me.
speaker1: ah... now i get it. you were counting on that, weren't you?
speaker2: it has a certain logic.
speaker1: but if your plan is to have him kill you, why do you have to kill someone else first?

speaker1: he'll need to see that to get up the courage to kill me. 
speaker2: not even you believe that, earl. it makes it more exciting, doesn't it, to think he's going to kill you after you kill someone else. you're getting your rocks off big time, that's why you're doing it.
speaker1: not true... and if it were, so what? you're great, you know. to have the to do this.
speaker3: i'm pretty nervous but that's normal right?
speaker1: perfectly normal.

speaker1: the weird thing is that they closed their curtains, at first they were open like they always were and they were making love, which they always did, and then when i looked again the curtains were closed, and there were what looked like camera flashes coming from behind the curtains. 
speaker2: camera flashes?
speaker1: that's what it looked like.
speaker2: that's why he poses them.
speaker1: i'm sorry?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: i wish i could be more helpful, i didn't see the killer or anything like that, but since it was weird i thought i should call.
speaker2: you've been very helpful. this answers a lot of questions for me. thank you very much, mr. struber.
speaker1: the guy you should talk to is the guy on the floor below us...

speaker1: eh, i can't remember his name, but he told me once that he'd taken some great pictures of that couple making love, he's the one you should speak to. 
speaker2: would that be, mr. baffert?
speaker1: yeah, i think jim or james...
speaker2: thank you very much.
speaker2: snyder, meet me at baffert's apartment with a search warrant... listen to me, this is what you tell the judge.

speaker1: i have to take a so bad. 
speaker2: this won't take long.
speaker3: i called your wife's lawyer. they're thinking about the five million dollars.
speaker4: realistically how much do you think we can get?

speaker1: if we go to court, best case, two, if she wants to settle, best case, three, but i would be happy with two seven. 
speaker2: i'll be right back.
speaker2: i think we should hold firm for three.
speaker1: let's not be piggish, two five, two seven, would be a good deal.
speaker1: you've already had half a bottle.
speaker2: you're late; if we want it, there's more.
speaker1: to us.
speaker2: to three million dollars.

speaker1: we have to do this fast because remember, marie is meeting us here. 
speaker2: we could ask her to join us.
speaker1: not funny.
speaker2: i wasn't trying to be.
speaker1: are we alone?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: don't do that.

speaker1: mr. baffert?... mr. baffert? 
speaker2: he's gone.

speaker1: do you have any idea when he'll be back? 
speaker2: he skipped out. i heard him leave this evening and a few minutes later there were movers here. musta been behind on the rent. he didn't even say good-bye.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: i told you.

speaker1: obviously baffert's gone... 
speaker2: goddamit, snyder. knock.
speaker3: i wasn't able to get the search warrant.
speaker3: where were you when you called me?
speaker2: at home in bed.
speaker3: can you prove that?
speaker2: i was home in bed, why should i have to prove that?
speaker3: your husband jesse and his lawyer were killed tonight...
speaker3: it looks like the thumbprint killer, i've been ordered to bring you in for questioning.

speaker1: why, i didn't want jesse dead, i loved him, i hated what he was doing to me... 
speaker2: it's on record you said you'd like him dead and who better to fake a thumbprint killing than you.
speaker1: you can't actually believe i would do that.
speaker2: if our jobs have taught us anything, tracy, is that people do strange things. they just want to ask you some questions.
speaker1: i will be happy to answer any questions after we check out this address.
speaker2: i have to take you in, tracy.
speaker1: this is the answer to the thumbprint killer, snyder, and this is where i'm going and you're not going to stop me.
speaker2: don't make me cuff you, tracy, because i will if i have to.
speaker1: i believe you would.
speaker2: you can count on it.

speaker1: that was great! it was fantastic! it was everything i hoped it would be. thank you. 
speaker2: you're welcome.
speaker3: here comes the gun.
speaker2: yup.
speaker2: what are you doing?!
speaker1: you're smart enough to figure that out, mr. brooks.
speaker2: well we're going sixty five miles an hour, mr. smith, if you shoot me now, there's a good chance we'll both die.

speaker1: not now. take the next off ramp. 
speaker2: that wouldn't be very smart of me would it?
speaker2: think about this. you yourself back there, you left your dna at the scene of a double homicide, and there's nothing to indicate that i was ever there. if the cops do an analysis of that urine, and they will, you're the thumbprint killer.
speaker2: yes. but what were you doing at the second murder?
speaker2: let me help you with a thought. you say i forced you to come along and if i'm not here or more specifically my body is not here to say different, you might have a chance to beat the rap. now you're probably asking yourself why i would help you. i'm tired, mr. smith, i'm tired of killing. but i'm an addict, i can't quit. i've tried. i can't do it on my own. so i'll let you kill me but i want you to do it smart, in a way that i disappear and my family never knows what i was.

speaker1: how do i do that? 
speaker2: there's a cemetery i know about. we find an open grave, you shoot me, i fall in the grave, you shovel in just enough earth to cover me, tomorrow a casket is lowered onto me and i've disappeared. it's a good plan. what do you say?...
speaker1: why should i trust you?
speaker2: you don't have to trust me. you're the man holding the gun, you saw me put mine in the trunk.
speaker1: i don't know. you really want me to kill you?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: okay... but any sudden moves and you're dead on the spot and i'll make sure your family knows what you are.
speaker2: i understand.

speaker1: uh uh, take your hand out real slow. 
speaker2: it's locked. you don't want to climb over, do you?
speaker1: what are you doing with a key to a cemetery?
speaker2: i own it.
speaker1: why do you own a cemetery?
speaker2: you always want to invest in things people can't do without. water and cemeteries are pretty safe.

speaker1: atwood? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: come on down, there's something i want to show you.

speaker1: there we are. now if i stand here... he positions himself at one end of the grave. 
speaker1: ... and you stand there, not too far away and you shoot me, i should fall straight back into the hole.

speaker1: you don't think i have the guts to do this do you? 
speaker2: i'm hoping you do.
speaker2: okay, let's get this over with.
speaker2: i'll close my eyes.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i really did want you to kill me. but in case at the last minute i changed my mind, i returned to your apartment and bent the firing pin on your gun.

speaker1: unfortunately for you, my daughter is pregnant and just before you pulled the trigger, i realized how much i want to see the end to that story. 
speaker2: if you do anything to me, if you touch one hair on my head, the police will find the pictures of you killing that couple.
speaker1: the contents of your safety deposit box, mr. smith, have vanished.
speaker1: before i was the thumbprint killer, mr. smith, i killed a lot of people in a lot of different ways.

speaker1: it says here the thumbprint killer is a monster... annoys you a little bit that you can't take credit, doesn't it? 
speaker2: anyone who is good at what they do, wants recognition. but since i'm not going to do it anymore, i'll let mr. smith take the credit.
speaker1: don't kid yourself, earl, you're going to kill again.
speaker2: no, i'm not. i'll continue the aa meetings and i'll control it.
speaker2: but there is an answer i would like to have.

speaker1: good work, atwood. 
speaker2: thanks, tom.
speaker3: you should ask the fbi to kiss your and buy you a cadillac.
speaker2: i like my too much for that.
speaker4: this is bogus. the company doesn't exist in the city, the state, the united states or canada.
speaker2: so the whole point of this piece of paper was to give me meeks.
speaker4: that's what it looks like.
speaker2: why? who moved him, where did they move him to, and why did he give me meeks?
speaker4: that's what we get paid to find out.
speaker2: i'm going to go to the bathroom and think about this.

speaker1: why are you a cop? 
speaker2: who is this?
speaker1: you're rich, you have a good education, you could have gone into your father's business, instead you went outside all of that and became successful on your own. why?
speaker2: you want something from me if you don't tell me who you are i'm going to hang up.
speaker1: did you think your husband's killing was random and i certainly didn't have to give you meeks.
speaker2: mr. baffert?!
speaker1: what's the answer?
speaker2: you don't sound like you.
speaker1: i have a little cold. are you going to give me the answer?
speaker2: where are you?

speaker1: i'll tell you if you can give me the true answer to my question. 
speaker2: my father was very disappointed i was born a girl and he let me know that. i've spent my whole life trying to prove him wrong.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: wait. you promised to tell me where you are.
speaker1: me? i'm on top of a building.
speaker2: why would he be interested in that?

speaker1: agghhh!!! agghhh!!! 
speaker2: honey, earl, earl...

speaker1: wake up, wake up... 
speaker1: you were having a nightmare.
speaker2: oh... i woke you up.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker1: i'm here, go back to sleep, i'm here.

