speaker1: ... it's crazy -- sugar is up to 200 dollars a ton -- sugar ! 
speaker2: what about oil ?
speaker1: food, oil --look, let me show you something. this is the economy of the united states in two years -- he takes a newspaper, draws a circle.
speaker1: this is west germany. this is japan. this is italy. this is iran. and this is saudi arabia... in two years ? do you understand ?
speaker3: what's to prevent it ?
speaker1: maybe nothing. but i'll tell you, i didn't build a two-billion-dollar company in the last twenty years by doing nothing. we can protect our interests. we are still the most powerful nation in the world. militarily.
speaker1: you know bodyguard; he was a captain in viet nam. you talk to him, except he won't talk. this kind of man can kill you with his pinky. a nice quiet fella, though.
speaker1: carries a attache case at all times. you know what's in it ? an ingram machine pistol.

speaker1: the attache case has been empty for three years, but it makes him safe to think there's a machine pistol in it. i don't like automatic weapons. they jam. i saw a friend of mine get ripped open because he flicked his m-16 to automatic, and it jammed. how much money did the contractors make on the m-16 ? 
speaker1: he likes to hear stories about nam. i tell him i can't; they're not cleared. the truth is he wouldn't understand. we can now see a man with his back to us, looking the opposite way. an attache case resting near to him. we

speaker1: there's no way i can tell them... what really happened over there. i wouldn't've believed it if someone'd told me. we are now resting on his back. occasionally, he sips from a beer, but we cannot see his face. 
speaker1: there was only one part that mattered -- for me, anyway. i don't even know if i remember all of it. i can't remember how it ended, exactly -- because when it ended i was insane.

speaker1: but i know how it started for me -- i was on r. and r. in saigon; my first time south of the dmz in three months. i wasn't sure, but i thought this guy was following me. 
speaker2: an american civilian.
speaker3: willard ducks into a bar.

speaker1: how about a drink ? 
speaker2: sure, thanks.
speaker1: winning the war by yourself.
speaker2: part.
speaker1: which part is that ?
speaker2: my part.
speaker2: beer, with ice and water.

speaker1: that's good gin. 
speaker2: i'm sure it is, but i had hepatitis.
speaker1: delta ?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: north ?
speaker2: yeah. way north.
speaker1: what unit were you with ?
speaker2: none.
speaker1: rangers, eh?
speaker2: sort of.
speaker1: were you longe range recon --
speaker2: no -- i worked too far north for

speaker1: that's quite an array of ribbons... 
speaker2: let's talk about you.
speaker1: i was an fo for the 25th.
speaker2: tracks ?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: fat. that's real fat.
speaker1: sometimes.
speaker2: at least you always have enough water. how many gallons does each one of those things carry ?
speaker1: thirty -- sometimes fifty.
speaker2: you know, i can remember once, getting back below the dmz -- and the first americans we ran into were a track squadron. i just couldn't believe how much water they had. we'd been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we'd been drinking anything -- rain water, river stuff right out of the paddies. and there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. i could've killed them. i swear to i would have, too, if ...
speaker1: i didn't know we had units up there in north vietnam.
speaker2: we do.
speaker1: how long were you up there ?
speaker2: a long time.
speaker1: a year ? waiter another beer.
speaker2: i go up on missions. listen captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that over there you're not going to find out anymore about me.
speaker2: what do you want ?
speaker3: if you're b.l. willard, 4th recon group, we'd like you to come with us.
speaker2: whose orders ?
speaker1: headquarters 11 corps -- 405th a.s.a battalion -- s-2 -- com-sec -- intelligence -- nha trang.
speaker2: who are you ?
speaker3: the agency.

speaker1: captain b.l. willard, g-4 headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir. 
speaker2: okay, willard, sit down.
speaker2: have you ever seen this officer before, captain willard ?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker2: this gentleman or myself ?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker2: i believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in kontum, is that right ?
speaker1: i am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
speaker3: very good.
speaker2: you know much about about special forces; green berets, captain ?
speaker1: i've worked with them on occasions and i saw the movie , sir.
speaker2: then you can appreciate command's concern over their -- shall we say 'erratic' methods of operation. i have never favored elite units, captain, including your paratroopers or whatever. just because a man jumps out of an airplane or wears a silly hat doesn't give him any priviliges in my book -- not in this man's army.
speaker3: we didn't need 'em in korea -- no sir, give me an ohio farm boy and an m-1 garand, none of this fancy -- no sir.
speaker4: major.
speaker2: we have special forces a detachments all along the cambodian border. two here and another one here -- twelve or fourteen americans -- pretty much on their own; they train and motivate montagnard natives; pick their own operations. if they need something, they call for it, and get it within reason. what we're concerned with is here.

speaker1: the a detachment at nu mung ba. it was originally a larger base, built up along the river in an old cambodian fortress. 
speaker1: the area has been relatively quiet for the past two years -- but --

speaker1: ... captain, we know something's going on up there -- major -- 
speaker2: communications naturally dwindled with the lack of v.c. activity, this is routine, expected ... but six months ago communication virtually stopped.
speaker1: about the same time -- large numbers of montagnards of the m'nong descent began leaving the area -- this in itself is not unusual since these people have fought with the rhade tribe that lived in the area for centuries. but what is unusual is that we began to find rhade refugees too -- in the same sampans as the m'nongs. these people aren't afraid of v.c. they've put up with war for twenty years -- but something is driving them out.
speaker2: we communicate with the base infrequently. what they call for are air strikes, immediate -- always at night. and we don't know what or who the air strikes are called on.
speaker3: who ?
speaker2: you see, no one has really gone into this area and come back alive.
speaker3: why me ?
speaker2: walter kurtz, lieutenant colonel, special forces. we understand you knew him.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker1: he's commanding the detachment at nu mung ba.
speaker4: up 2 -- 0 -- give it to me quick -- mark flare -- affirmative -- immediate receive -- hearing automatic weapons fire man ...
speaker5: blue delta five this big rhine -- three need that ordinance immediately give it to me immediate christ -- big rhino -- blue -- delta -- goddamn.
speaker6: this is big rhino six -- blue delta.
speaker2: that's colonel kurtz.
speaker7: i want that napalm dropped in the trees -- spread it among the branches. we'll give you a flare -- an orange one -- bright orange.
speaker7: we'd also like some white phosporous, blue delta. white phosporous, give it to me.
speaker3: i only met kurtz once.
speaker8: would he remember you ?
speaker3: maybe.
speaker1: what was your impression of him ?
speaker8: you didn't like him.
speaker3: anyone got a cigarette.
speaker3: i thought he was a lame.
speaker1: a lame ?
speaker3: this is years ago, before he joined special forces, i guess.
speaker1: about what ?
speaker3: i don't know. he was a lame, that's all.
speaker1: but why ?
speaker3: he couldn't get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
speaker1: well, he's killing now.
speaker3: maybe.
speaker8: what does that mean ?
speaker3: maybe it's not kurtz. i don't believe he's capable of that.
speaker1: it's got to be kurtz.
speaker8: the point is that kurtz or somebody attacked a south vietnamese ranger platoon three days ago. last week a recon helicopter was lost in the area -- another took heavy damage -- direct fire from their base camp.
speaker3: our recon flight ?
speaker8: ours.
speaker3: touchy.
speaker8: you can see, of course, the implications, if any of this -- even rumours leaked out.
speaker3: you want me to clean it up -- simple and quiet.
speaker8: exactly -- you'll go up the nung river in a navy p.b.r. -- appear at nu mung ba as if by accident, re-establish your acquintance with colonel kurtz, find out what's happened -- and why. then terminate his command.
speaker3: terminate ?
speaker8: terminate with extreme prejudice.

speaker1: chief, try to keep out of where we're going -- why we're goin' and what's gonna be the big surprise. 
speaker2: all right with me, i used to drive a taxi.
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: the delta closes off to us about ten miles out of hau fat. we'll be able to pick up some supplies -- bit i think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the nung river. it's all charlie's turf from there on out. 
speaker2: we're gonna have some help to get in the river. you know these waters, chief ?
speaker1: 'bout six months ago i took a man up to lo mung bridge. he was regular army too. shot himself in the head. i brought his body back down.
speaker2: shot himself. what for ?
speaker1: beats me -- the sun was too much for him, or the mud. who knows ?

speaker1: arch light. 
speaker2: i hate that -- every time i hear that noise something terrible happens.
speaker3: anybody see some smoke ?
speaker4: too far inland.
speaker5: there they are.

speaker1: the dossier on a detachment had letters from kurtz' wife and the wives and families of his men. all asking where to send future mail, understanding the necessery silence due to the nature of their work -- none of the men had written home in half a year. 
speaker2: studying, examining a report.

speaker1: lieutenant kurtz has shown a dedicated and well-disciplined spirit. he is a fine officer, combining military efficiency -- with a broad background in the humanities, the arts and sciences ... 
speaker1: ... he views his military career as the dedication of his talents to bringing our values and way of life to those darker, less fortunate areas in the world.
speaker1: ... i feel captain kurtz' request for special forces training is highly unusual in regard to his past humanitarian concerns, and his somewhat liberal politics, though i can see no reason to deny it. a close shot of kurtz with green beret on in the vietnam jungle. his face is blank and vacant.
speaker1: ... we feel major kurtz' need to bring a sense of western culture to the backward peoples of these areas will be of use in accordance with our 'vietnamization' programs ... move in to kurtz' empty eyes until the photograph is just a blurred mass of dots.

speaker1: lance -- i want you to go with the captain an' get three extra drums of fuel and maybe scrounge some more 50 caliber. 
speaker2: yeah -- look at those uniforms.

speaker1: i don't know anything about these papers, sir. 
speaker2: they're in order -- it's perfectly clean -- just check with comsec- intel like i said.
speaker1: well, you know i don't have the priority to do that, sir. it says here not to contact com-sec- int. who's your commanding officer ?
speaker2: right now -- i am.
speaker1: well who the verifies that ?
speaker2: i do.
speaker3: no -- what's all the activity for around here ?
speaker1: the show --
speaker2: what show ?
speaker1: big show in the parade grounds this noon -- some boss stuff --
speaker2: this -- bob hope or the like --
speaker1: no sir, i think -- this'll be a little bit different --
speaker3: where's it gonna be ?

speaker1: jammed in the crowd 
speaker2: it's really too much -- i mean i've collected every picture of her since she was miss december.
speaker3: yeah -- you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the delta.
speaker4: what cat ?
speaker3: one that went up for murder -- he was an army sergeant.
speaker4: i never heard about that.
speaker3: yeah -- he really dug his mag, man -- i mean like he was there when it arrived -- he just knew.
speaker2: so what happened ?
speaker3: he was working a.r.v.n. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook lieutenants -- anyhow, the lieutenant took his new one day, sat on the end of the dock, and wouldn't give it back.
speaker2: yeah -- typical a.r.v.n.
speaker3: then went too far -- he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. poking pins in her an' all that. sergeant says, don't do her like that. you leave your little hands off that girl. gook lieutenant says you in vietnamese -- sergeant says, don't do that again. you'll wish you hadn't. then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the mag. man, it blew him clean off the dock -- hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
speaker4: they nail him for it bad ?
speaker3: he's in the l.b.j. -- didn't
speaker5: i'd like to say hello from all of us up here, to all of you out there. all of you who've worked so hard during operation brute force -- paratroopers -- infantry -- airmen -- medics -- marines -- and sailors. and i want you to know that we feel proud of you and know how hard your job is. to prove it -- we've brought some entertainment we think you're gonna like: the playmate of the year and her two runners up !

speaker1: two days out of hau fat, there was nothing but us and the coastline. i felt like i had set off for the center of the earth... 
speaker2: smoke !
speaker1: where ?

speaker1: black smoke ... secondary burning. 
speaker2: yeah -- fishing village -- helicopters over there. hueys, lots of 'em.
speaker1: first air cavalry. they're the ones gonna get us into the river.

speaker1: lieutenant: bomb that tree line back about a hundred yards -- give me some room to breathe. 
speaker2: he was not quite prepared for this.
speaker3: turning to his guards
speaker1: bring me some cards.
speaker4: sir ?
speaker1: body cards, you fool -- cards !
speaker5: captain b-l. willard, sir -- 4th recon group -- i carry priority papers from com-sec intelligence 11 corp -- i believe you understand the nature of my mission.
speaker1: yeah -- na trang told me to expect you -- we'll see what we can do. just stay out of my way till this is done, captain.

speaker1: what ? here. you sure? 
speaker1: what's your name, sailor ?
speaker2: gunner's mate, third class -- l. johnson, sir.
speaker1: lance johnson? the surfer?
speaker2: that's right, sir.
speaker1: it's an honor to meet you lance. i've admired your nose-riding for years -- i like your cutback, too. i think you have the best cutback there is.
speaker2: thank you, sir.
speaker1: you can cut out the sir, lance -- i'm bill kilgore -- i'm a goofy foot.

speaker1: this is mike from san diego and johnny from malibu -- they're good solid surfers -- none of us are anywhere near your class, though. 
speaker2: my orders are from com-sec intel -- b.l. willard, 4th recon --
speaker1: just hold up a second, captain -- i'll get to you soon enough -- we've got things to do here.
speaker1: ... we do a lot of surfing around here. like to finish up operations early and fly down to vung tau for the evening glass. have you ever surfed the point at vung tau? i liked the beach breaks around na trang a lot -- good lefts. he passes a twisted gun emplacement with about five bodies -- sprinkles cards all over them.
speaker1: ... we keep three boards in my command huey at all times. you never can tell when you're gonna run into something good. i got a guy in cam rau bay that can predict a swell two days in advance. we try to work it in. he stops at a particularly wild-looking viet cong who has died with his mouth agape -- staring wild-eyed in horror at the sky. kilgore pauses.
speaker1: hell, that's an ace if i ever saw one.

speaker1: where've you been riding, lance? 
speaker2: i haven't surfed since i got here.
speaker1: that's terrible -- we'll change that -- i'd like to see you work -- i've always liked your cutback; got a of a left turn, too.

speaker1: why the you wanna go up to nu mung ba for? 
speaker2: i got bored in saigon.
speaker1: what's the furthest you been in?
speaker2: haiphong.
speaker1: haiphong? you jump in ?
speaker2: no. walked.
speaker1: what'd you do for supplies?
speaker2: mercenaries -- agents, traitors -- they put out caches.
speaker1: can you trust them?
speaker2: no. they put out two or three for every one i needed. when you get to the one you'll use, you just stake it out. if something feels wrong, you just pass it up. on one mission, i had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate bars.
speaker1: nu mung ba. last i heard, walter kurtz commanded a green beret detachment at nu mung ba.
speaker2: when did you hear?
speaker1: 'bout a year ago? is kurtz still alive?
speaker2: who knows.
speaker1: seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. maybe a rumor. helluva man -- remarkable officer. walter kurtz woulda been a general some day. general of the army. head of the joint chiefs of staff. did you knew kurtz?
speaker2: i met him.
speaker1: don't you agree?
speaker2: he musta changed ! i got to get into the nung river, here or here.
speaker1: that village you're pointing at is kinda hairy.
speaker2: hairy ?
speaker1: i mean it's hairy -- they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy -- i've lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
speaker2: so? i heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
speaker1: and i don't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman nung river. you say you don't know kurtz?
speaker2: i met him.
speaker1: you talk like him. i don't mind taking casualties, captain, but i like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit -- ten cong to one.
speaker2: you'll find enough cong up there.
speaker1: what about this point here?
speaker1: what's the name of that village -- vin drin dop or lop; gook names all sound the same.
speaker1: mike, you know anything about the point at vin drip drop?
speaker3: boss left.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker3: it's really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point -- catches a south swell.
speaker4: nice.
speaker1: why the didn't you tell me about that place -- a good left. there aren't any good left slides in this whole, country.
speaker3: it's hairy ,though. that's where we lost mcdonnel -- they shot the out of us. it's charlie's point.
speaker1: how big it is?
speaker3: six to eight feet.
speaker1: a six-foot left.
speaker4: boss. what's the wind like.
speaker3: light off shore -- really hollow.
speaker2: we could go in tomorrow at dawn -- there's always off-shore wind in the morning.
speaker5: the draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
speaker1: hell, we'll pick your boat up and lay it down like a baby, right where you want it. this is the cav boy -- airmobile. i can take that point and hold it as long as i like -- and you can get anywhere you want up that river that suits you, captain. hell, a six foot left. you take a gunship back to division -- mike, take lance with you -- let him pick out a board, and bring me my yater spoon -- the eight six.
speaker6: i don't know, sir -- it's -- it's --
speaker1: what is it?
speaker6: well, i mean it's hairy in there -- it's charlie's point.
speaker2: charlie don't surf.

speaker1: how do you feel, boy? 
speaker2: like a mean sir.
speaker1: let's go.

speaker1: we'll come in low out of the rising sun -- we'll put on the music about a mile out. 
speaker2: music?
speaker1: yeah. classical stuff -- scares the out of the slopes -- the boys love it.

speaker1: big duke six to eagle thrust -- turn on coordinates 1-0 -- niner, assume attack formation. 
speaker2: eagle thrust formation target 2800 yards -- begin psch-war operations.

speaker1: we're down, eagle thrust -- we're hit. we got a hot l.z. here. 
speaker1: of a hot l.z. need immediate air strike on the tree line, eagle thrust.

speaker1: big duke six to hell's angels four -- bring it in on along tree line and huts. 
speaker2: hell's angels four to big duke six -- we'll need green smoke -- suggest you have the fac mark it.
speaker1: haven't got time, hell's angels -- lay it right up the tree line.

speaker1: very good, hell's angels -- suggest you follow with cannon fire. 
speaker2: this is baker delta four -- captain hit bad -- need dust-off. receiving heavy automatic weapons fire from huts about thirty yards to our left.
speaker1: big duke six to baker delta four -- hold -- we're right over you.
speaker1: right along the doors, boy.
speaker1: fine... fine... little higher. through the roof; yeah, that's good.
speaker1: didn't anybody bring me any bombs, grenades, claymores or anything?
speaker3: you didn't tell me to, sir.
speaker1: you shoulda known.
speaker1: sonuvabitch -- anybody hurt?
speaker4: automatic weapons flashes along those trees -- probably eleven millimeter guns and ak-47's.
speaker1: the trees, eh...
speaker1: eagle thrust four -- big duke six. join me in sparaying some trees.
speaker2: affirmative, big duke six -- we're even got some rockets left.
speaker1: take her in low, lieutenant.

speaker1: hold it, boy. 
speaker1: take her up to 300 feet, lieutenant.
speaker1: rifle.
speaker1: my rifle, soldier.
speaker2: amazed at these proceedings.

speaker1: the gaudy rifle passed by him. 
speaker2: that's 27, sir.
speaker3: anyone got a card?

speaker1: the l.z.'s cooling off fast -- we'll move in another company an' then we'll own it. charlie's point. 
speaker1: good swell.
speaker2: what, sir?
speaker1: i said it's a good swell -- of a good swell 'bout six feet. let's get a look at it.

speaker1: incoming ! 
speaker2: look at that.
speaker3: this l.z. is still pretty hot, sir, maybe we oughta stand somewhere else.
speaker4: i'm waiting for the boat, colonel.
speaker2: it'll get here, soldier.
speaker2: change.
speaker5: wh -- what?
speaker2: change -- get out there -- i want'a see if it's ridable -- change.
speaker5: it's still pretty hairy, sir.
speaker2: you want'a surf, soldier?
speaker2: that's good, boy, because it's either surf or fight. they turn and hurry off -- kilgore grabs an m-1 from one of the guards. they all think he's going to shoot the surfers or someone. they move back uneasy.
speaker2: i'm gonna cover for 'em -- that's all. he thye weapon. lance looks around uneasily. the colonel walks over.
speaker2: you think that section on the point is ridable, lance?
speaker3: i think we ought to wait for the tide to come in.
speaker2: doesn't happen for six hours. lance looks up at him terrified, holding onto his helmet.
speaker2: the tide -- doesn't come in for six hours.

speaker1: they far enough? 
speaker2: sure -- fine --
speaker1: that's far enough -- pick one up and come on in --

speaker1: maybe he'll get tubed. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: maybe he'll get inside the tube -- where -- where they can't see him.

speaker1: incoming ! 
speaker2: son of a

speaker1: the tragedy of this war is a dead surfer. 
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: just something i read in the free press.
speaker3: they just missed a good set -- the chicken !

speaker1: try it again, you little bastards. 
speaker2: he turns to willard.
speaker1: iâ´m not afraid to surf this place.
speaker3: he turns, glowering to his lackeys.
speaker1: bring that r.t., soldier.
speaker1: big duke six to hell's angels -- goddamit, i want that treeline bombed -- yeah -- napalm -- gimme some napalm -- son of a -- yeah, i'll take h.z. or c.b.u.'s if you got any of them -- just bomb 'em into the stone age, boy. he throws the r.t. back to a soldier -- another salvo whistles over -- everyone drops.
speaker1: son of a
speaker1: we'll have this place cleaned up and ready for us in a jiffy, boy. don't you worry.

speaker1: forget that extra drum -- it's too hot. 
speaker2: clear on starboard -- where's lance an' the captain?
speaker1: i saw that colonel's huey on the point -- two helicopters scream over firing rockets.
speaker1: let's just get outta here.

speaker1: he'll kill us. 
speaker2: he can't kill us. we're on his side.
speaker3: you smell that. you smell that?
speaker1: what?
speaker3: napalm, boy -- nothing else in the world smells like that -- they reflect the glow from the burning trees.
speaker3: i love the smell of napalm in the morning. one time we had a hill bombed for 12 hours. i walked up it when it was all over; we didn't find one of 'em ... not one stinking gook body. they slipped out in the night -- but the smell -- that gasoline smell -- the whole hill -- it smelled like ... victory...
speaker2: you know, some day this war's gonna end..
speaker3: yes, i know.
speaker3: the wind --
speaker1: what?
speaker3: feel it -- it's the wind -- it's blowing on shore -- it's on shore !
speaker3: it's gonna blow this place out.
speaker2: the kid can't ride sloppy waves.

speaker1: you don't expect this kid to ride that crap, do you? he's a artist, he needs something to work with... 
speaker2: yeah, i'm an artist, goddamit !
speaker3: yeah -- yeah, i can understand how you feel.
speaker3: it's the napalm -- it's causing the wind -- ruining my perfect left. he staggers off toward the trees followed by his guards and other lackeys.
speaker3: the napalm -- ruin -- napalm my perfect left -- my perfect left point break -- napalm -- lance motions with his eyes to willard.

speaker1: are you finished surfing? 
speaker2: yeah... thanks.
speaker1: want to say goodbye to the colonel?
speaker2: nah.
speaker1: then let's get the out of here.
speaker2: no -- no, captain.
speaker1: which one's the colonel's?
speaker2: the yater -- the clear one with the thin stringer.
speaker3: incoming ! incoming -- son of a
speaker1: this one , lance?
speaker2: yeah, christ !
speaker4: what'd you that for?
speaker1: when i was a kid i, never had a yater spoon.

speaker1: maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark -- we got his yater. 
speaker2: he didn't look like he'd take that sitting down.
speaker2: let's put some distance between us and charlie.
speaker3: lance ---

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: why don't you roll us a big joint? i think the captain'd like that.
speaker3: take one a mine --

speaker1: you hear it again? 
speaker2: no -- i don't think so. but it'll be back. they were circling. it'll be back.
speaker1: you think he'd of shot us?
speaker2: when?
speaker1: any time -- us -- americans.
speaker2: i don't think heâ´d of shot us on the beach but -- he'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board --
speaker1: a yater spoon is hard to get -- especially here.
speaker2: he's a man who knows what he wants -- he does know what he wants.
speaker3: can i go get those mangos now?
speaker4: i'll go with you in a while -- judt hold tight awhile --
speaker1: captain -- that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: and you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
speaker2: it's a feeling you get in the jungle. when you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they're going, whether they're near their camp, the weapons they're carrying.
speaker5: how can you tell their weapons.. an' how far they're going?
speaker2: mostly from the imprints when they put them down to rest. their morale from the way they drag their feet, or the joints that may be lying around. if they're near a base camp, they wouldn't be conserving food; they'll be throwing it away half-eaten. if the branches aren't broken, their weapons are slung. but all this is just technique.. there's a feeling you get after a while, that's what's important. i was going through a village once. i was looking for a certain party. i took off my boots, and walked into each hut. it was midnight. i went into three like that and suddenly i realized iâ´d gone into each hut the same way -- standing up -- so the next one i went in on my belly. an rpd burst took out the door a bit above my head. things like that.
speaker6: i'm not gonna hurt or harm you, boy -- i just want the board back -- you can understand -- it was one of my best -- you know how hard it is to get a board you like, boy. i'm not gonna hurt or harm you -- just leave it where i can find it --
speaker5: -- that guy's too much.
speaker4: i wonder if that was the same copter.
speaker2: he's probably got 'em all over the river with that recording. we better move now while it's dark.
speaker4: yeah, chef -- go ahead -- take lance with you --
speaker2: i'll go with him -- they all look at him.
speaker2: i wanta get my feet on solid land once in awhile -- he grabs an m-16 and follows chef over the side.
speaker2: chef.
speaker3: yes, sir --
speaker2: why they call you that?
speaker3: call me what, sir?
speaker2: chef -- is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
speaker3: no, sir -- i'm a real chef, sir -- i'm a sauciere --
speaker2: a sauciere --

speaker1: that's right, sir -- i come from new orleans -- i was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. we specialize in sauces; my whole family. it's what we do. i was supposed to go to paris and study at the escoffier school; i was saving the money. they called me for my physical so i figured the navy had better food. 
speaker2: what are you doing out here?
speaker1: cook school -- that did it.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: they lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib -- magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it -- boiling. i looked in, an' it was turning gray. i couldn't stand it. i went into radio school.
speaker2: -- quiet --

speaker1: what's this tiger 
speaker2: no i think i shot the out of him.
speaker1: you think?
speaker2: i wasnâ´t looking.. i was running.
speaker3: was a big tiger -- no
speaker2: who stopped to measure him -- let's get the out of here.
speaker4: a tiger -- i could've been killed.
speaker5: you forgot the mangoes, didn't you?
speaker4: mangoes? there as a tiger in the woods -- i could've been eaten alive. i'm never going into that jungle again. i gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat.
speaker2: he was right, the chef -- never go into the jungle, unless you're ready to go all the way.

speaker1: what was in the jungle? what was there, waiting for me? 
speaker1: ... kurtz was in there. or was he; was it kurtz? he was just a name to me now; i couldn't remember a face, a voice -- he just didn't add up to me. all his liberal about the end of savagery -- and the role of our culture, our way of life... willard looks toward the group of people on the boat -- there is still some music. they talk and drink and laugh.
speaker1: our way of life -- i really started to look forward to meeting kurtz again.

speaker1: the rolling stones and "satisfaction..." 
speaker2: outa sight.

speaker1: willard opens a letter from the packet. 
speaker2: the dossier of a dtachment contained letters from the families and wives of kurtz' men there were letters from kurtz' wife as well.

speaker1: soldier -- where'â´s your c.o.? 
speaker2: stepped on a booby trap, sir -- got blown all to --
speaker1: well , who's in command here?
speaker2: i don't know -- don't have any idea -- i'm just the night man --
speaker1: what about you, soldier?
speaker3: captain --
speaker3: over here, captain --
speaker4: you came in on that boat, didn't you?
speaker1: yeah --
speaker4: where are you headed?
speaker1: what's it matter? get to the point.
speaker4: look -- you know the girls -- thta's terri -- she was playmate of --
speaker1: yeah, i caught your show at hau fat.
speaker4: oh -- i see -- well, girls, this is captain -- eh --
speaker1: captain willard -- go ahead.
speaker4: look -- we got in a little trouble -- they rudely took our helicopter for medevac work on this -- uh operation brute force -- they just brought it back this morning.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: well i mean like they also took our fuel -- we've been here two days.
speaker1: dreadful.
speaker4: look -- the girls could get killed -- we're not supposed to be this close combat, i mean real combat.
speaker1: well --
speaker4: we could use some fuel -- just a half drum -- just enough to get us out a here.
speaker1: we need all our fuel.
speaker4: but, captain, think what these girls have done for the boys -- think of how they've risked -- willard is almost out of the tent.
speaker5: captain -- he turns around.
speaker5: it's really rough here -- captain -- we're just not built for it -- the pilot laughs.
speaker6: that's rich --
speaker5: do us a favor -- i'd do one for you -- if i could --
speaker4: look -- you know who that is, captain -- you know what she's saying -- you'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
speaker1: i'm not that fond of blondes -- maybe i like brunettes --
speaker4: take your pick -- they all like you -- i can tell --
speaker1: i like all of them --
speaker4: good -- like i said, take your pick.
speaker1: i said i like all of them.
speaker4: now just a second -- i'm doing you a favor, buddy -- what're you trying to pull?
speaker1: we need all our fuel anyway.
speaker4: wait -- wait -- don't get up tight -- what i meant was we'd need a whole drum for that --
speaker1: sit down -- we'll talk about it.
speaker4: what's there to talk about -- this whole thing disgusts me.
speaker1: my men --
speaker4: what !
speaker1: that's what there is to talk about -- my man -- i take a good care of my men --
speaker4: you're out of your skull --
speaker1: we have a lot of pride in our unit --
speaker4: how far do you think you can push -- what kind of people do you think --
speaker1: esprit de corps --

speaker1: no -- absolutely not -- 
speaker2: one for all -- all for one --
speaker1: you can keep your fuel -- willard gets up.
speaker2: you make some of your closest friends in the army -- war has a way of bringing men together.
speaker1: get out --
speaker2: men of all races -- nationalities -- he gets up and starts out.
speaker1: two drums -- willard turns around slowly.
speaker1: two whole drums --
speaker2: we can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too --
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about -- get --
speaker2: i will -- i assure you that -- you got a fifty on that h-34 -- leave the ammo in boxes -- i'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em -- he turns to go under the tent flap.
speaker2: have the girls freshen up a bit -- comb their hair -- put on something -- you know what i mean -- he leaves.

speaker1: you keep this thing in this condition an' it's gonna jam, lance -- mark my words. 
speaker2: why don't you go pet the water buffaloes -- get off my back.
speaker2: 1 each -- buffalo, water b-1a u.s. army no. 15239 willard walks through them down to the boat.
speaker3: careful, captain, they've been known to charge.
speaker4: all right i got a little surprise for you -- they all look up.
speaker4: i've arranged with those people we saw at hau fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel --
speaker5: no
speaker4: chef -- since you're such a fan of miss december's i think you should be detailed with lance and clean to take the first drum up there.
speaker5: i don't believe you --
speaker3: what're you trying to say, captain --
speaker4: you'll see soon enough -- get going, sailor --
speaker3: no -- hot --

speaker1: i've got every one of your pictures -- i've got the centerfold -- the playmate's review -- the playmate of the year run-off -- everything, even the calender -- 
speaker2: well, get undressed and let's get it over with --
speaker1: i can't believe it -- i'd a never even got to see you if it wasn't for this war -- she lies down on the cot in only her panties.
speaker1: you wouldn't mind -- uh kinda draping that jacket over you sort of the way you were in the calender, would you?
speaker2: come on -- cut this -- i gotta get back to saigon --
speaker1: just let me look awhile -- i just don't believe --

speaker1: well -- uh thanks -- see you around. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: i'm next -- she shrugs.

speaker1: ma'am -- i'd like to thank you for what you an' all your friends have done for us -- i want you to know that me an' the men appreciate you coming all this way -- riskin' your lives -- living uncomfortably an' doing all you can to entertain us. i want you to know personally, miss, that for the past few minutes you have made me feel at home. 
speaker1: just wanted to say that, ma'am.

speaker1: i gotta get out a here -- iâ´ll pay -- i got money. 
speaker2: get away from this boat.
speaker3: who's your c.o., soldier?
speaker1: you, you'll get what's coming to you.
speaker4: captain willard?
speaker3: that's me.
speaker4: captain willard -- we got these from nha thrang two days ago -- they expected you here then --
speaker4: you don't know how happy that makes me, sir.
speaker3: why?
speaker4: now i can get out a here -- if i can find a way out.
speaker3: we'll be needing some supplies and fuel -- do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
speaker4: i'd just clear out as soon as i could if i were you, sir. they're gonna start working on the bridge with torches again. charlie will start throwing it in hard --
speaker3: what is this bridge?
speaker4: it's of strategic importance for keeping the highway into bat shan open -- the generals don't like to admit that bat shan is surrounded.
speaker4: every night we build it and by 0800 they've blown it up -- it and a lot of good men -- but the generals like to say the road is open -- ha ! nobody uses that road except charlie.
speaker4: this is the cesspool of hell.
speaker1: incoming.
speaker2: all right -- lance, go with the captain an' see what you can scrounge -- willard climbs out with lance.
speaker2: better make it fast, sir -- we don't really need much anyway.

speaker1: you came right to it, son of a -- 
speaker2: son of a sir.
speaker2: where's your chief supply officer?
speaker1: beverly hills --
speaker2: what?
speaker1: straight up the road -- a concrete bunker -- beverly hills -- where else you think he'd be?
speaker2: c'mon --
speaker1: get your down, buddy.
speaker3: watch your feet, -- willard looks down.
speaker3: you stepped on my face.
speaker4: we thought you were dead.
speaker3: the whole world loves a smart ass.
speaker2: what're you shooting at, soldier?
speaker5: gooks.
speaker5: iâ´m sorry, sir.
speaker2: it's all right, sergeant -- what's out there?
speaker5: they were tryin' to cut through the wire -- i got 'em all i think.
speaker6: oh yeah -- listen.
speaker5: he's trying to call his friends -- send up a flare.
speaker7: those are all dead, stupid, he's obviously underneath 'em --
speaker5: wake up the roach.
speaker8: yeah, man.
speaker7: slope in the wire -- hear him.
speaker7: bust him.
speaker5: hear him?
speaker8: sure , yeah.
speaker5: you need a flare --

speaker1: no, itâ´s cool. 
speaker1: muhhh fuhhh ...
speaker1: he staggers back down the trench to go to sleep.

speaker1: geez, i wish they'd hurry. 
speaker2: hey, buddy, that boat still runs, eh?
speaker3: yeah, it still runs.
speaker2: do me a favor buddy, please.
speaker3: what is it? he takes out a handful of crumpled envelopes.
speaker2: send these out when you get back to the world.
speaker2: it's to everyone i really knew -- the first girl i screwed -- my brother -- best friend -- i wanted to tell 'em how much i enjoyed knowing 'em -- it's been a great twenty years. i gotta let 'em know.
speaker3: what're you askin' me for -- put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
speaker2: nobody comes in here.
speaker2: the n.v.a. 312th -- over there the 307th -- on that hill we counted fourteen different guns in one minute -- they got rockets mortars, snipers in those trees, there's a million of those little out there -- we're all gonna die.
speaker2: i'm gonna be dead.
speaker2: you got a chance in that boat -- by morning you could be five miles down the river.
speaker3: we ain't goin' down the river.
speaker3: what's up river from here anyhow -- the soldier doesn't answer, just stares dumbfounded.
speaker2: spooky.
speaker3: charlie?
speaker2: no, it'd be spooky without the war -- give 'em back.
speaker4: wow, you must a found the c.o., eh?
speaker5: we found some bodies -- let's get out a here.

speaker1: we hit a big enough one this hull will shatter like a corvette. plastic boat. willard practically hangs off forward with a long pole, warding off the big debris moving toward the p.b.r. clean joins him, helping. 
speaker2: what about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
speaker1: who knows what's up there?
speaker2: can't be any worse than this.
speaker1: i think this river wants to take us home fast. i'm practically goin' in reverse.
speaker2: well, get in there.
speaker1: this whole area is lousy with v.c. -- we don't stand a chance. lemme turn around and we'll be in hau fat in six minutes.
speaker2: get in there !
speaker1: this is my crew and my boat, and i'm the responsible party.
speaker2: get in there now or i'll bury you in this river.
speaker1: you're crazy. you're going to get us all killed.

speaker1: what do you see? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: keep cutting.
speaker3: cutting with all he's got.
speaker2: i know it sounds stupid, but i feel like the jungle's watching us.
speaker1: probably is.
speaker2: whatdoya think it thinks.
speaker1: that we're dumber than we look.
speaker4: lance -- 'bout twenty meters starboard.
speaker2: there in the trees !

speaker1: elevate lance, in the tree. no, i saw another. 
speaker2: thirty meters up, lance; i saw the flash.

speaker1: i'm ripping 'em, man, son-of-a- it's jammed, oh it's jammed. clean is riddled by machine gun fire. 
speaker2: throw me that ordnance.
speaker2: give me some kind a field a fire -- bullets rip by.
speaker3: we're through.
speaker3: oh, --
speaker4: i ain't finished ! i ain't finished !
speaker2: bring that bow ordnance into those trees.

speaker1: there's some bad holes, man, and the cracks -- water's coming through the cracks. food's shot to hell. 
speaker2: how much is left?
speaker1: less than half -- sure is a mess down there.
speaker2: and the grass?
speaker1: still got a lot of that stuff from nha trang. but we're running low on the other.
speaker3: he notices something in the distance.
speaker4: a light.
speaker5: willard stands up, pointing up the river.
speaker2: hey.
speaker2: that's a light down there --
speaker1: yeah, it is.
speaker6: what the is it?
speaker2: in the middle of the jungle -- a light.

speaker1: watch it ! 
speaker1: they're not cong.
speaker2: we're americans.
speaker3: maybe you shouldn't say we're americans?
speaker1: chef, try your french.
speaker3: nous sommes americains -- silence.
speaker3: nous ne voulon pas vous agresser.
speaker4: he looks through the glasses.

speaker1: nous sommes americains -- nous sommes des amis -- 
speaker2: vous parlez francais comme une vache espanole.
speaker1: i thought it was pretty good, myself.
speaker3: what'd he say?
speaker1: said i speak french like a spanish cow.
speaker2: laisser tomber vos armes --
speaker1: put the guns straight up -- stand away from the mounts.
speaker4: do it.
speaker2: vous pouvez approcher mais doucement --
speaker1: take her in slow.

speaker1: hands on the heads. 
speaker2: i can't steer with my feet.
speaker3: hey, they speak american.
speaker4: who is the commanding officer?

speaker1: i am -- i'm captain b.l. willard. this is chief warrant officer phillips -- it's his boat. we were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food -- we can pay you in gold. 
speaker2: philippe --
speaker3: i'll help you with --
speaker4: do not move --
speaker2: fifty calibers, eh, captain --
speaker1: as i said, we can pay you in gold.
speaker2: entirely unnecessary, captain.
speaker2: we share a common enemy -- you are our guests. i am gaston de marais -- this is my family's plantation. it has been such for 121 years. it will be such after i die. this is my son, philippe -- he has fought in algeria and held the rank of captain. and henry lefevre -- a sergeant; he was at dien bien phu. my personal servant, tran van kac ---
speaker2: my youngest son -- christian --

speaker1: american weapons? 
speaker2: we took them from the dead. now -- i assume you want to rest, to shower. we'll attend to your repairs after dinner.
speaker3: shower.
speaker1: we don't want to bother you any, we --
speaker2: a man of war is never bothered to aid an ally -- you will follow me, captain.
speaker1: a habit of men of war, sir -- you understand.
speaker2: of course, captain -- an unfortunate necessity.
speaker4: what about the boat?
speaker5: my men will keep it for you --
speaker4: yeah -- well, i'll stay with the boat.
speaker1: chief. come with us.

speaker1: a suitable accomodation for your men, captain -- you will, of course, be quartered with us -- 
speaker2: go ahead -- philippe leads them on, muttering.
speaker1: captain, this way.
speaker1: magnificent, eh, captain?
speaker1: it is very good -- there is no current -- it is very good. i have never seen one like it in all indochina. i was in paris when it arrived -- do you know what might have caused --
speaker2: looks like a two thousand pound to me. yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
speaker1: no, i've seen those in normandy. this is much better. my country -- my country could never originate this. magnificent.

speaker1: haggard, looking down at the album. 
speaker2: i wondered -- how long has this room been like this; how long has the furniture been standing in these places?

speaker1: was it like this sixty years ago? eighty years? but here, even eighty years is nothing. he turns the page, 
speaker2: fascinated
speaker1: it was jungle, once; and it will be jungle, again...

speaker1: this food is wonderful ! i can't believe the chef is a slope. some more? 
speaker1: hey -- lance.
speaker2: huh? oh. um, wouldya ..
speaker3: roxanne, i hope you are feeling better.
speaker4: je vais bien maintenant.
speaker3: may i present captain willard? he is of a paratroop regiment. you know the difference between a paratrooper and a regular soldier, don't you , my dear?
speaker4: yes, they come from the sky. she sits -- there's an uneasy silence.
speaker5: i would like to know more about the .. uh, plaque...
speaker3: attacks repulsed, as i was saying. this is only for this war, captain. viet cong -- 54; north vietnamese regular forces -- 15; south vietnamese -- 28 -- regular forces and otherwise. americain -- 6. of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, captain.
speaker5: of course. i -- once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
speaker3: captain?
speaker5: you'll get blown outta here some day.
speaker3: we will never 'evacuate', captain -- this is our home. indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
speaker5: the vietnamese think it's theirs -- i guess the americans do, too.
speaker3: but we civilized it. a place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
speaker5: i always thought the french came here to get the rubber.
speaker6: excuse me, i must attend to my men.
speaker4: may i ask where the captain is going in his little boat?
speaker5: we were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
speaker3: upriver? why upriver? there is nothing there, only jungle.
speaker5: do you know that jungle?
speaker3: when i was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. there are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
speaker5: what about an american named kurtz?
speaker3: we have never heard of him.
speaker3: bon nuit, roxanne -- bon nuit, captain.
speaker5: good night.
speaker4: you must realize, captain -- we have lost much here -- i, my husband. gaston -- his wife and son.
speaker5: i'm sorry to hear that.
speaker4: cognac?
speaker5: i should be checking on the boat.
speaker4: the war will still be here tomorrow.
speaker5: i guess so.

speaker1: do you miss your home, captain? 
speaker2: no. not really.
speaker2: i was discharged from the army four years ago. i went home, wasted some time, bought a mustang mach 1, drove it a week. then i re-upped for another tour. no, everything i love is here.
speaker1: then you are like us.
speaker1: what will you do after the war?
speaker2: i just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
speaker1: what's a big question?
speaker2: kurtz. i know you've heard of him.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: what did you hear?
speaker1: that strange things.. terrible things have occured around this american, kurtz.
speaker2: what things?
speaker1: gaston would never tell me. it was asubject not to be spoken of, captain.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: did you know -- deeper in the jungle, upriver -- there are savages?
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: but captain, i mean -- cannibals.
speaker1: what a pity, you don't drink. since my husband died, there are so many things i must do alone. she takes a sip.

speaker1: are you warm, captain? 
speaker2: the river is beautiful.

speaker1: i spend hours watching that river from my bedroom window. it fascinates me. 
speaker2: one eye steals another look at the p.b.r.

speaker1: i will fix you breakfast. 
speaker2: i'm afraid i won't have time -- i gotta --
speaker1: whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores -- a case of grenades, a mortar and two m-16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order.
speaker2: so that's it.
speaker1: you may think what you wish, captain, but i like you very much.
speaker2: what if i say no.
speaker1: then philippe will have to kill all of you.

speaker1: two of my men deserted last night. it happens from time to time. i assume my daughter told you of our conditions. 
speaker2: your daughter.
speaker3: they taking half our ammo, captain -- said it was your orders.
speaker2: that's right -- i did.
speaker2: i guess this is what men of war do -- eh?
speaker1: we endure, captain -- you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar -- destroy that and we'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. burn the forest and we'll hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing -- clean the blood off our bayonets. au revoir, captain.

speaker1: next time we get in a good fire fight -- i'd like to know how she was, captain. 
speaker2: holy
speaker3: what did you put in all those ammo boxes?
speaker4: rocks, sand -- those two men who deserted.
speaker1: when'd you do it?
speaker4: while you were sleeping. he lets the board drop.

speaker1: flood. 
speaker2: no -- most of 'em are still standing -- might've been disease.
speaker3: i don't know -- there'd still be some sign -- it's just like the one this morning.

speaker1: -- all right, lance -- 
speaker2: the other one --
speaker3: no -- leave it --
speaker1: why -- charlie put it there to kill --
speaker3: thta's not charlie's work -- there is silence.
speaker3: whoever put'em there didn't do it to kill people -- they put 'em up as signs --
speaker1: signs?
speaker3: yeah -- like keep out --

speaker1: listen. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: listen.

speaker1: they're on the banks of the river. 
speaker2: frantically, he swings the twin fifties around.
speaker3: !
speaker4: we can barely see him -- in and out of the fog.
speaker1: no, lance. not while you can't see.
speaker5: listening. the sound is terrible, horrifying.
speaker1: will they attack?
speaker6: if they have boats ... or canoes... they'd get lost in the fog. we can't move either -- we'll end up on the shore.
speaker7: 
speaker3: sounds like hundreds of them.
speaker6: shhhhhh.

speaker1: two hours after the fog lifted, we moved slowly to a spot we thought was roughly a mile and a half below kurtz's camp. we approached a long sand-bank stretching down the middle of the river. 
speaker2: which way? right or left?
speaker1: who knows? right.
speaker2: looks pretty shallow.

speaker1: upon reaching objective. target key personnel and commence operation. should difficulty arise from which extraction is impossible, break radio silence com-sec command code strong arm -- indicate purgative air strike -- code -- street gang. purgative air strike ! purgative ! they'd kill me too ! suddenly chef lays out flat on the bow. hundreds and hundreds of slender sticks fly onto the p.b.r. 
speaker2: ! arrows ! they're shooting arrows at us.
speaker3: looking toward the banks.

speaker1: stop it. 
speaker1: it was the strangest thing -- i don't know that i can explain it. two of my men dead, and all i could think of was whether kurtz was dead too. that's all i wanted: to see kurtz, to hear kurtz.
speaker1: somehow, in the middle of this ... carnival, kurtz had grown into something -- a gifted officer; a great man. somehow, he was the only light in this hopeless, hopeless darkness. and now i was too late -- he was probably gone, disappeared... by a grenade rolled into his tent -- or by some spear on the head. christ, i felt like howling like those animals in the fog.

speaker1: willard shouts out to the starnge greeter. 
speaker2: we've been attacked.
speaker3: charlie?
speaker2: looks that way.
speaker3: who's he?
speaker2: knows.
speaker2: who the are you?
speaker4: moonby. got any winstons?
speaker2: moonby what?
speaker4: moonby, 4th battalion, royal australian regiment, task force.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker5: oh, they're simple enough people. it's good to see you, baby. nobody has any winstons?
speaker5: this boat's a mess.
speaker2: where's kurtz? i want to talk to him.
speaker5: oh, you don't talk to colonel kurtz. you
speaker5: simple. they don't want him to go.
speaker2: you're australian?
speaker5: pre-australian, actually. but i'd dig goin' to california.
speaker2: so kurtz is alive.
speaker5: kurtz. i tell you, that man has enlarged my mind.
speaker5: but lemme tell you,
speaker5: i've asked myself that question. i said to myself, why didn't he shoot me? he didn't shoot me, because i had a stash like you wouldn't believe. i hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the orient: marijuana -- hashish -- opium -- cocaine -- uncut heroin; the gold of the golden triangle. and acid -- i make koolaid that makes purple owsley come on like piss. now i'm kurtz' own disciple -- i listen he talks. about everything ! everything. i forgot there's such a thing as sleep. everything.
speaker3: love?
speaker5: oh, no, not what you think... cosmic love. he made me see things -- things, you know.

speaker1: sounds like he's gone crazy. 
speaker2: no, colonel kurtz couldn't be crazy -- if you heard him talk, just last week, you'd never think he was crazy.
speaker1: is that where he is? by the shrunken heads.
speaker2: those heads, yes. well, the rebels...
speaker1: we're going ashore. tie her up -- and leave your guns up, lance.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: bring your rifles, that's all. take us to him.
speaker2: right on -- he's been waiting for --
speaker1: and shut up.

speaker1: who are you? 
speaker2: his name is...
speaker1: i'm not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again.
speaker3: colby. exec. officer, a-team... special forces. f-82 -- col.
speaker1: what happened here?
speaker4: what -- happened here.
speaker1: charlie?
speaker4: nva regulars. they're coming again tonight. tet -- their big -- assault.
speaker5: looks at willard, not understanding.

speaker1: i'm taking you back. 
speaker2: oh, no, donâ´t say that.
speaker3: take us back. take us back ! but, the operation -- the team. colonel kurtz has such plans for -- the team.
speaker1: take me to him, major.
speaker3: i had nothing to do with these operations -- i did not do the planning -- none of us did. it was all colonel kurtz -- he was the genius. you'll see -- the genius of our colonel. he should be made a general, don't you think? a general? it's...

speaker1: colonel kurtz, i guess. 
speaker2: i'm kurtz.
speaker1: captain b.l. willard reporting his presence, sir.

speaker1: why did you come to ... my province. 
speaker2: we were attacked -- down river. we need supplies and medical help.
speaker1: you were not coming here, to see me?
speaker2: no -- no, sir.
speaker1: you came up my river -- in that small boat. so simple. i always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did. you are the final justice, aren't you?
speaker2: what do you mean, colonel?
speaker1: what other reason could you have come? a captain. ranger. paratrooper. graduate of the recondo school. am i right about these things?
speaker2: you know you're right.
speaker1: then the agency approached you. maybe in a bar in quinon or pleiku. simple. a year's pay for one life. perhaps a village elder, or a tax collector. nobody's orders but your own.
speaker3: he remains silent.
speaker4: he smiles.
speaker1: you've spent tome at the royal tracking school of malaysia. i can tell from the way the laces on your boots are tied. i understand you, captain. we understand each other.
speaker2: do you know me?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: do you know

speaker1: captain -- they've been probed all this week -- cong and nva regulars. there's gonna be a big offense any time. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: what are we doing here?
speaker2: kurtz. i'm supposed to kill him, just like he said.
speaker3: yeah, i can see that. he's nuts --
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: he killed that guy without feeling anything.
speaker2: not a thing.
speaker1: when you kill cong, don't you feel something.
speaker2: sure. recoil... i feel the recoil of my rifle.

speaker1: this is good -- triple overlapping fields of fire -- walls so thick ordinary artillery just cleans the moss off their surfaces. 
speaker2: this is evil -- evil, captain.
speaker1: yeah, i know.
speaker2: i don't get it -- you said your mission was to kill him. let's do it, an' get our outta here. this kurtz is ruining the war; i mean, this don't look good for america !
speaker1: ... he's an amazing officer.
speaker2: you got to kill this sonuvabitch -- lance and me, we don'â´t understand none of this -- captain -- i don't wanna die here -- do it quick.
speaker1: yeah. i know.

speaker1: he's asleep -- don't bother him. 
speaker2: i'm awake.
speaker2: you. get out.
speaker2: that's right, the little gook- pricks. but they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. because they fight with their guts, like animals.
speaker3: yeah, i like it...
speaker2: i love it.
speaker3: you've gone crazy.
speaker2: no. my thinking is clear. but my soul has gone mad.

speaker1: willard examining the wound. 
speaker2: you see how stupid it would have been to blow out my brains? i'm dying from the gut anyway.
speaker2: no -- i don't want to sleep. i want to think. water. give me water.
speaker3: you can't have water after morphine.
speaker2: still playing by the rules. you're a good kiler.
speaker3: how's the pain?
speaker2: how's yours?
speaker3: i can handle it.
speaker2: pain is easy to handle -- but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much truth he can handle.
speaker3: what truth?
speaker2: the truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you haven't done it. and do you know why? yes, you know why. your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it.
speaker3: no water.
speaker2: you know what you're doing?
speaker2: drink it -- drink it for tonight. think of it. a whole regiment of those little cong -- war. total war -- war like you've never known it. it's beautiful -- you'll love it. trust me.

speaker1: lance -- the fucker's not gonna do it. 
speaker2: -- you've gotta dig napalm on speed, too. it's spectacular, you'll see.

speaker1: look into the jungle. you can't -- it's too terrible. you have to smear yourself with warpaint to look at it -- you have to be a cannibal. that's why warpaint was invented. 
speaker1: because of all the things we do, the thing we do best -- is lie.
speaker2: i think think a lie stinks.
speaker1: oh captain, that is so true.
speaker2: stinks. i could never figure -- i could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm -- and not let them write the word on their airplanes.
speaker1: you could never figure it because it doesn't make sense.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i'll tell you what makes sense !
speaker3: captain -- kill him.
speaker1: think of it -- for years, millions of years, savages with pathetic painted faces were scared shitless that fire would rain down from the sky. and goddamn, we made it happen.

speaker1: exhilarated, and moving with the music. 
speaker2: napalm.

speaker1: watching this spectacle. 
speaker2: charles !

speaker1: go away -- hide yourself. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: going back - to the jungle to die.
speaker2: i'm taking you back. you can still live.
speaker1: i had immense plans.
speaker2: i'm gonna get you out of here.
speaker1: i was on threshold of great things.

speaker1: who is he? 
speaker2: he was the tragedy -- the tragedy of this war.

speaker1: don't. don't frighten them away. 
speaker2: so you understand this?
speaker1: do i not?

speaker1: my river... my people... my jungle... my ideas... my country... my wife... ... my death. 
speaker2: you had immense plans... immense plans...
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: i'm taking you back.
speaker1: the horror, the horror.
speaker3: there.
speaker3: how did they know?
speaker2: they must have seen the fire.
speaker3: they're coming to rescue us.
speaker4: he stares up at the sky.
speaker2: they're coming to take us back.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: colonel kurtz, he's dead.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: come in, captain willard.

speaker1: can i get anything for you? 
speaker1: did you know him very well?
speaker2: you get to know each other pretty well out there.
speaker1: and you admired him?
speaker2: he was a remarkable man. it was impossible not to --
speaker1: love him... yes, it is true. that's the hard part for me... i knew him better than anyone ... i knew him best.
speaker2: you knew him best.
speaker1: you were his friend... you must have been, if he had given you this... if he sent you to his home. he was the best this country had -- he was --
speaker2: yes, i know...
speaker1: i'll never get over it -- but i'll always remember him...
speaker2: both of us...
speaker1: men looked up to him... he died as he lived...
speaker2: his death was -- yes, he died as he lived.
speaker1: were you with him, when...
speaker2: yes i was... he said his last words to me.

speaker1: tell me what he said. 
speaker2: the horror ! the horror !
speaker3: he spoke of you, ma'am.

