speaker1: it's an accident. it means the flower developed a virus early in the bulb stage. the flaws create the unusual coloring. 
speaker2: can you arrange something for me with those?
speaker1: of course. what kind of price range are you looking for?
speaker3: well, it's for my parent's anniversary. they don't know i'm coming. i just want it to be beautiful. can you just do whatever you think looks best?
speaker1: i'll need a few minutes.
speaker3: take your time, please. and thank you.
speaker1: that should be some surprise.
speaker3: which?
speaker1: for your parents.
speaker3: oh. yes. i hope so.

speaker1: which one is it? 
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: anniversary.
speaker2: oh. fortieth
speaker1: wow. okay. i think i have an idea. something classic.
speaker3: tess turns away from the window.
speaker2: do you have a bathroom?
speaker1: straight back, on the left. it's unisex.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: it's unisex!

speaker1: the baldwins. 
speaker2: what about them?
speaker1: we had dinner with them three years ago. you talked about your parent's anniversary. she says nothing. benedict i'm getting married next month.
speaker2: so am i.

speaker1: the opening doesn't work. 
speaker2: duh.
speaker1: she shouldn't have the same dream as franklin. he's the antagonist.

speaker1: it was your idea. 
speaker2: no it wasn't.
speaker1: well, it wasn't mine. it couldn't be; it's too stupid.
speaker2: why do you do that? why do you have to get personal?
speaker1: it's not personal, it's a fact.

speaker1: it's personal. you don't argue logically. you attack. bring the right foot back even with the left, buttocks raised high.... ...you have to have reasons, to support your argument... ...flattening the back so the body forms a triangle. 
speaker2: i can't listen to you anymore. it makes me physically sick.
speaker1: relax the crown of the head toward the floor. draw the hips away from the hands, len--gthening the spine.

speaker1: this a serious class. no pigs allowed. okay? 
speaker2: sorry.
speaker3: virge.

speaker1: you're hallucinating. 
speaker2: yeah, whatever, oj.

speaker1: 736.18 degrees fahrenheit, felix. 
speaker2: rusty. what do you want from me?
speaker1: i want what i paid for.
speaker2: and that's what i sent.
speaker1: no, felix, no. i paid for pure. and if my workshop were on top of mount everest it would be pure. but i'm at sea level, felix, and at sea level it should liquefy at 736.95. if it's pure, that is. which this isn't.
speaker2: well, i didn't know you were going to liquefy it.
speaker1: let me ask you something: when christo calls his cotton supplier and asks for 100% cotton cloth, do you think his supplier sends him 98% cotton and 2% polyester and when that doesn't work, says to christo, "well, you should have told me you were going to wrap the coast of australia"?

speaker1: who's christo? 
speaker2: felix, you're in a shame spiral. have your assistant lose my number. rusty snaps his phone shut. rusty my

speaker1: four weeks. 
speaker2: we stole that money fair and square. you bought people off to find me. you took advantage during an economic downturn, and made them say some they shouldn't have said. it's not fair, it's not just, and it aint' cool. a long beat. benedict stares back at him. frank did you hear what i just said?

speaker1: i heard what you said, frank. did you hear what i said? 
speaker2: how many people here tonight were stupid enough to have children? a few people raise their hands. livingston wow. no, seriously, that's great. i have a child. a daughter. she's five. they get to you, right? am i right? like emotionally. i mean, sometimes she'll turn to me with her little face and her little shiny eyes, and she'll say, "daddy, please stop hitting me," and it just breaks my heart.' people aren't sure what to make of this. livingston i'm livingston dell. thanks for listening. see you at ten.
speaker1: what can i say? you're a funny guy.

speaker1: what it is about horses? i ask you. is it the strength? the beauty? the fearlessness? the grace? of course. but there's something else. something in the eyes. the person with him nods. saul yes. when i look into a horse's eyes, i can tell: this one's a winner. 
speaker2: excuse me, mr. bloom?
speaker1: yes?
speaker2: there appears to be a problem with your card.
speaker1: you take visa?
speaker2: i was acting on instructions from your business manager.
speaker1: my business manager?

speaker1: how many can't make the deadline? 
speaker2: so i'm smarter than those schmucks on wall street. whose fault is that?
speaker1: how many think if they run, they'll be found?

speaker1: we're on the five o'clock. 
speaker2: good. a beat. danny where?
speaker1: amsterdam.

speaker1: flight 144 to amsterdam. 
speaker2: you're in seat 43j. enjoy your flight.
speaker1: uh...there must be some mistake. i mean...unless...is your first class section in the back of the plane?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: we've increased capacity by employing advanced design technology. 
speaker2: you made the seats smaller. can you just say that? you made the seats smaller.

speaker1: see, you're not hearing me. what i'm trying to tell you is the reservations agent made a mistake when she issued the ticket, because on the rare occasions that i fly commercially, i always book a first- class ticket with no restrictions-- the desk agent looks back at him skeptically. 
speaker2: she may have, air, but this is the only ticket available to you on this flight. i need you to step aside so i can take care of the next customer.
speaker1: now, listen: don't make me get black.

speaker1: reuben. 
speaker2: i wanted to wish you luck. and listen: i want to do something for you.
speaker1: what's this?

speaker1: take it. take it. this is the least i can do. i've got a friend who owns the bellagio of amsterdam and i've made reservations for all of you there. it's all taken care of. 
speaker2: that's very touching, reuben.
speaker1: it's the least i could do. i love you guys. enjoy. yen says something in chinese. reuben no, thank you.

speaker1: nice. 
speaker2: great anticipation.
speaker3: gentlemen, you'll have to go back to your seats now.
speaker4: ground level. first floor. day one. planning stages. planning stages.
speaker5: how'd he get that seat?
speaker2: what seat?

speaker1: call me an elitist asshole, call me a bourgeois clown, call me anything you want, but 'economy' is 
speaker2: oh, i don't know...it's not that ba-
speaker3: hey. you guys have a minute?
speaker2: sure, linus.
speaker1: what's on your mind?
speaker3: well, i know this may not be the exact right time to bring this up, but i've been thinking about...well, about where i want to be in five years, career-wise, and i've decided i really want to be more than just a role-player. i really see myself as kind of an idea man, like you guys. i mean, i know you do your part and you're in the trenches with us and all, but it's really your show, and like i said, five years from now, i want to be running my own show....

speaker1: so if there's any opportunity for me to be involved in the, you know, planning stages of things, i would really appreciate it. i really feel like i'm ready for more responsibility and that i could really make a contribution. 
speaker2: are you thinking what i'm thinking?
speaker3: evelyn.
speaker2: we're negotiating the terms with her tomorrow. you feel up to taking the lead?
speaker1: are you serious?
speaker3: absolutely.
speaker1: this isn't some gag?
speaker2: no gag.
speaker1: wow. yeah. that would be awesome.
speaker3: okay, then.
speaker1: man. i wasn't sure if i should say anything. now i'm glad i did.
speaker3: so are we.
speaker2: we're here to listen.

speaker1: great. thanks. really. you won't regret this. 
speaker2: tom.
speaker3: he can be a tom?
speaker2: anybody can be a tom.
speaker3: you gotta make your own opportunities. this ain't a rehearsal.
speaker2: tom.
speaker3: boy, you're tough.
speaker2: stop calling me "boy".

speaker1: how could he lie to us like that? 
speaker2: the sign said 'the bellagio of amsterdam'.
speaker3: wait a minute. that's it?
speaker4: yeah.
speaker3: look, you guys no frills, no perks, run-and-gun, all that stuff, and i said no problem because i believed you were right that we shouldn't go deeper into debt and spend money we don't have. i mean, am i the only one who thinks this might actually be a good thing? that we could use a little humility? that maybe we were a little too pleased and impressed with ourselves after the benedict job? okay, i grant you that maybe this isn't what we deserve, but maybe it's what we need. we can do this. no, i take it back: we have to do this.

speaker1: what are you doing in amsterdam? 
speaker2: only what i have to do to get benedict off our backs.
speaker1: be careful, danny. please.
speaker2: how's work?
speaker1: it's the same. i'm distracted.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: it's not your fault.
speaker2: i keep trying to figure out what i did wrong. how did he find us?
speaker1: danny, don't keep thinking about it.
speaker2: i did something wrong. he should never have found us.

speaker1: i'll call you tomorrow. i love you. 
speaker2: i love you.

speaker1: she'll try and use her looks to distract you. don't let her. 
speaker2: be polite, but firm.
speaker3: right.
speaker1: don't get soft on us. don't make too many concessions.
speaker3: i won't.

speaker1: the onset of summer is like a woman who owns too many shoes. 
speaker2: if animals were capable of flattery, the world bank would be open until 8pm.
speaker1: when i was four years old, i saw my mother kill a spider with a tea cozy.
speaker3: a doctor who specializes in skin diseases will dream that he has fallen asleep in front of the television. later he will wake up in front of the television but not remember his dream.
speaker4: o let the sun beat down upon my face, stars to fill my dreams. i am a traveler of both time and space, to be where i have been.
speaker1: your young friend has a great deal to learn about respect.
speaker2: linus...why don't you wait outside.

speaker1: is that your idea of making a contribution? 
speaker2: her terms were scandalous. and we were lucky to get them after what you said.
speaker1: the deal was this close to being blown.
speaker3: "deal?" what "deal?" danny and rusty just look at him. linus i know what you guys are doing. danny and rusty exhange looks. what? linus look. that...person had too many cupcakes. they just keep staring at him. linus i was playing along.
speaker2: "playing along!"
speaker1: you called her mother a whore.
speaker2: a really cheap one.
speaker3: guys, i'm not falling for this. i'm not....

speaker1: it's a privately owned home. but don't let that fool you. it's extremely well-protected. 
speaker2: what are we after?
speaker3: a document. a very old, very valuable document.
speaker4: what is it?
speaker1: a stock certificate.
speaker3: the first one ever issued, from the first corporation on the planet. the dutch east india trading company. it's the only one of it's kind and it's worth a boat-load.
speaker5: what's our cut?
speaker1: 2.7 million after expenses.

speaker1: each? 
speaker2: who negotiated this?
speaker3: thanks.
speaker4: what do we know so far?
speaker5: there's a dummy key pad by the front door. but the alarm is really controlled by the keypad in mr. vanderspeigle's second floor office. now, here's good news: we already know the system's master code. evelyn gave it to us.
speaker6: that's not good news, that's really good news.
speaker2: we just wait until he leaves.
speaker5: yeah, well...that's the bad news.
speaker7: he doesn't.
speaker5: he's agoraphobic.

speaker1: not once since he moved in ten years ago. 
speaker2: doesn't this guy believe in fresh air?
speaker1: cracks his windows at night...that's about it.
speaker3: can we tap into the system from the outside through the phone lines?
speaker1: negative. it's a closed-loop system with two redundant servers locked into titanium cases in the guy's bedroom.
speaker4: could we use a remote device to trigger the panel?
speaker5: it's hard-wired and shielded.

speaker1: guys, am i missing something here? we know his code, right? you're telling me with that much information we can't find a way into this freak's house? 
speaker1: can't we just get a telephone repair truck...

speaker1: ...put the basket up and use a telescoping rod through the open window to tap out the guy's code? 
speaker2: the street in front of the house is blocked off to vehicles.
speaker3: and it's covered by five independently-wired surveillance cameras....
speaker2: monitored 24-hours a day by a security company.

speaker1: this guy really is a freak. 
speaker2: crazy freak.
speaker3: something wrong?
speaker4: just...don't call the guy a freak, okay?

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: okay, here's something...i've got an idea...suppose we--
speaker3: no.
speaker2: well, but how--
speaker3: there's a goldmann grid over the enitre surface. linus looks at him. rusty is that what you were thinking about?
speaker1: but....

speaker1: --well, that's different. especially if we-- 
speaker2: right.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: a schuman special. livingston--
speaker4: absolutely. i mean, i'd need a day to--
speaker1: you'll have three. basher?
speaker5: no worries.
speaker1: virgil, turk.
speaker6: just gotta get the gear.
speaker7: sweden.
speaker1: yen? yen says something in chinese. rusty what, and give up show business?
speaker8: i know, i know. i'll be bored.

speaker1: clock's running. 
speaker2: what's a schuman special?

speaker1: let me see the specs. 
speaker1: how tall is the surface of this roof?
speaker2: about 87 feet.
speaker1: how tall exactly?

speaker1: you're not going to believe this. 
speaker2: try me.
speaker1: we don't have line-of-sight.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we tried everywhere. some places we're only three or four inches off...but...there's no straight shot. even with basher. it's literally impossible.
speaker3: can i talk to you guys for a second?
speaker3: listen, i've done a little research on the schuman special, and uh...we don't have line of sight for the shot.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this'll kill us.
speaker2: listen: don't say anything. if you're ever going to run your own crew, you've got to remember to never show weakness.
speaker1: it's like blood in the water for these guys.

speaker1: if they think you're slipping, you won't even see it coming. 
speaker2: but hey--thanks.
speaker2: i need some air.
speaker1: the swinging priest?
speaker2: not enough time.
speaker1: crazy larry.
speaker2: too many variables.
speaker1: robinov's revenge?
speaker2: too many obstacles.
speaker1: the soft shoulder.
speaker2: not enough people.
speaker1: baker's dozen.
speaker2: we'd need a woman.
speaker1: in a handbasket.

speaker1: can't train the cat that quickly. 
speaker2: i can't have my wife watch me hauled off in handcuffs again.
speaker1: it's always about you, isn't it?
speaker2: this like running toward a cliff.
speaker1: i have no idea what you're talking about.
speaker2: you get the tattoo removed?
speaker1: given its location, my doctor advised against it.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: we're here.
speaker2: oh.
speaker2: nice.

speaker1: tilt it. raise it slightly. 
speaker2: the whole house?
speaker1: it's only a few inches.
speaker3: then i'll have line-of-sight.
speaker4: we can't tilt a whole house.
speaker5: they did it with the leaning tower of pisa.
speaker1: exactly.
speaker2: it took three hundred guys two years to do that. you're crazy. nobody's ever done anything like this.
speaker1: not true. palowski did it in `64 in venice and `73 in istanbul.
speaker2: really?
speaker6: and he only had a crew of six.
speaker1: there are thirty pylons. we cut them, insert the jacks, and crank.
speaker3: for nineteen hours. here's the order in which they have to be done.

speaker1: so, basher approached me about being on a crew. 
speaker2: when?
speaker1: yesterday.

speaker1: the good news is, after the first twelve hours, i stopped being able to smell anything. 
speaker2: took a few more for me.
speaker1: this water was stagnant six hundred years ago.
speaker3: there's no reason for him not to.
speaker4: okay, so he goes to the cops.
speaker3: then they arrest dominique.
speaker5: right.
speaker3: then we have no story.
speaker4: right.
speaker6: she steals the money from mr. mulroney.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: why would she?

speaker1: to pay franklin to keep quiet. 
speaker2: that's good.
speaker3: counterfeiting? me? i have to tell you, it's not something i condone. it's cheating.
speaker4: it is cheating.
speaker3: there's no subtlety to it.
speaker4: it's kind of embarrassing.
speaker3: no one i know...
speaker4: i can't imagine anything like that.
speaker3: not bad.
speaker4: bolivia.
speaker3: diego's people?
speaker4: yeah.

speaker1: well. congratulations. 
speaker2: i told him about you.
speaker1: i'm too old. that's dangerous. my stuff is cheap compared to that. it's just me and my gal, you know. what you're talking about is organized. but thanks, anyway.

speaker1: jay leno called. 
speaker2: when are you gonna stop with that tired "white people can't be funny stuff"? it's so old, frank, really. do you want some orange juice? i got the good kind.
speaker3: augie one, this is condor.
speaker2: this is augie one; go condor.

speaker1: for example: anecdotal evidence suggest these people are personally insufferable. 
speaker1: their egos demand constant praise, and they embellish their exploits to anyone who will listen. they tell their own stories endlessly, provided of course, they are talking to a fellow thief or an intimate.
speaker1: those who interact with them on a personal level are relegated to positions of total servitude, with no chance for growth or freedom. their lives are treated as secondary. many of them suffer from depression. it's a crime for which there is no law, and yet causes untold damage.

speaker1: thanks for coming. we can really use your help on this one. 
speaker2: i hope the scene hasn't been contaminated.
speaker2: no forced entry.
speaker1: not that we can find.

speaker1: no, that would have triggered the system. 
speaker2: well, then i don't know how they got in.
speaker1: they had to have known the code.
speaker3: we considered that, but the mark swears that nobody in the world knew the code except him. he programmed the last seven steps of the system himself. he set it and never left the house again. when he dies, we'll probably have to physically cut all the power lines to the house to get it off line.
speaker1: there are other ways to get the code. closed loop. redundant servers. titanium encasement. not bad.
speaker3: like what?

speaker1: uh...well, they probably set up in a house across the canal and watched him type the code in through a pair of binoculars. 
speaker2: actually, i don't know about that. isabel re-enters the office. paul unless he had a habit of typing in the code like this--
speaker1: that's why they probably set up over there--

speaker1: it's where the crossbow bolt hit. 
speaker2: a crossbow bolt?
speaker1: ever heard of franz schuman?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: they would have fired from that roof. through this open window. 
speaker2: from that roof, through this window? nobody could make a shot like that.
speaker1: not a cop, anyway.
speaker2: what's that supposed to mean?
speaker1: sorry. your friend downstairs put me in a bad mood.
speaker2: he's an you shouldn't let him bother you.
speaker1: yes. you're right.

speaker1: when did he get up and notice the certificate was gone? 
speaker2: the alarm woke him at 4:2o am.
speaker1: but the alarm would have been-- she stops. and smiles to herself. isabel oh... oh, i know what happened.
speaker2: what?

speaker1: there was someone else. 
speaker2: someone else.

speaker1: that must have really been something. 
speaker2: wait! wait! shhhh!

speaker1: can i help you? 
speaker2: yeah. what the are you doing?
speaker1: i am getting here first.
speaker3: this is our score.
speaker1: i am here before you.
speaker4: we let you in the house! somehow you got in after we hit the code but before we got to the door.
speaker1: that's thirty seconds. how could i know which exact thirty seconds i had? unless i knew you plan. could i have known your plan? do you have a snitch in your group?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: we don't.
speaker1: yes, i know you don't. because i saw, the whole thing from that chair. i knew you were around, but i had my own plan.

speaker1: there's really no need for that. 
speaker2: listen, we have to come to some arrangement.
speaker3: we've incurred some very serious costs here.
speaker3: well, we have.
speaker1: every second i am becoming more outnumbered.
speaker4: who's this?
speaker5: he said he got here first.
speaker4: that's
speaker6: hey. mouth.
speaker4: this is our job!
speaker7: if the situation were reversed--
speaker1: but the situation is not reversed. the situation is that i am here first, without any help from you.

speaker1: so as much as i would-- basher and saul arrive. 
speaker1: how many of you are there?
speaker2: just give us the stock certificate. whatever else you took out of that safe...it's yours.
speaker1: no. but: i leave you with something.
speaker1: my attorney. in case evelyn's employer tries anything...well, anything.
speaker3: are you sure?
speaker4: i'm sure there's another scenario that would fit these physical details, but i don't know what it is.
speaker3: where should we start?

speaker1: you can start by picking that guy up. 
speaker2: who the was that guy?
speaker3: it's going to get out, you know.
speaker4: somebody must know this bloke's name.
speaker5: the question is who trained him. he got into that place alone.
speaker6: he says.
speaker3: i believed him.
speaker7: you think he's better than us?
speaker3: i'm not saying anything, but the man was sitting there, waiting for us.
speaker8: do you think the cops even know who this guys is?
speaker9: please. that guy's never even seen a cop.
speaker10: maybe he works with the cops.

speaker1: you don't work with the cops unless you absolutely have to. and not even then. 
speaker2: either way, he's got to have a name.
speaker3: it can't be that hard to find out who this guy is. like i said, somebody trained him. who trains the best?
speaker4: lemarc. right?
speaker5: if he's not dead.
speaker6: who's lemarc?

speaker1: stone. 
speaker2: i'm not quitting.
speaker1: who said quitting. i'm tired.
speaker3: can i speak to him?
speaker2: who are you?
speaker2: apparently, you can do whatever you want with him.
speaker1: are you moving him?
speaker3: oh no. i just need to speak with him. to get some information.
speaker2: we've been on him for six hours.
speaker1: with our best stuff.
speaker2: our best stuff. in mind terms, we've been torturing this guy.
speaker3: i'm sure. i only need a moment, then i'll be out of your way.

speaker1: it's not a problem, it's a hiccup. it won't affect our schedule that much. i want to talk about you, not the job. how are you doing? 
speaker1: tess, i've got to call you back.
speaker1: coming.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: hello, robert.
speaker1: isabel.
speaker3: "robert?" is that his real name?
speaker3: how does she know that?
speaker4: ex-girlfriend.
speaker5: fiancee.
speaker1: it's great to see you.
speaker2: is it? because you've been seeing a lot of me lately.
speaker2: you were sitting in a mercedes outside my apartment on wednesday night.

speaker1: you were hiding in the bushes when i had lunch yesterday at trattoria bella. 
speaker1: this one...i'm not even sure where this one was taken, but i like it a lot. very ron gallela.
speaker1: i mean, if i didn't know better i'd think you all came here to steal the vanderspeigle getuigschrift, also known as the world's first stock certificate. you must have been so proud of yourselves. a schuman special. it's been awhile. that was a very handsome crossbow shot, eugene.
speaker1: and the palowski...whose idea was that?
speaker2: we didn't steal anything.
speaker1: oh...i know you didn't. somebody beat you to it. one man. no crew. no back up. tell me something -- just so i can get the full picture in my head -- was he wearing a tuxedo? a white dinner jacket?

speaker1: at least we saw him in the flesh. you'll never see this guy your whole life. 
speaker2: so you know who he is?
speaker3: of course we know who he is.
speaker2: well, then. i'll see you when you see him. to get your certificate back.
speaker4: who's hat is that?
speaker5: how did she-- that was--
speaker3: this is what i was talking about.
speaker6: --i was just checking up on her. i knew she didn't want to see me. i was being polite.
speaker7: where did she learn all that stuff?
speaker3: her father.
speaker8: he was a cop?
speaker6: thief.

speaker1: was he good? 
speaker2: very.
speaker3: great.
speaker4: what's the big deal? she's just some brilliant, pissed-off ex- girlfriend who's dad taught her every trick in the book.
speaker5: fiancee.
speaker6: but did you see that display of emotion, handing out those pictures?
speaker4: totally unprofessional.
speaker7: she's passionate.
speaker4: she's unbalanced.
speaker7: her job is very stressful.
speaker8: she could reduce her stress by leaving us alone.
speaker2: we've got to slow her down.
speaker2: but first: we find our french friend and introduce ourselves.

speaker1: twenty-four hours. you know that. 
speaker2: i don't have twenty-four hours. they're there now. they'll lead me to him.
speaker1: you also know that you can go now, if you don't take your secretary. when there's liability, i need a document.
speaker3: he said we can't leave until tomorrow because of liability issues and he needs a document.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: thanks for trying.
speaker2: let's share a car.
speaker3: that would be nice. thank you.
speaker2: i can't believe they won't make an exception. i've got to find out who this other guy is.

speaker1: fantastic. 
speaker2: he did his first big job in 1989.
speaker3: the fifteen million dollar one the day the berlin wall fell?
speaker2: he was nineteen years old.

speaker1: where do you want to go this weekend? 
speaker2: bank faltier, paris 190 and again in '91.... total take twenty-one million euros. bank of italy '92. eighteen million. danish treasury, also 192. twenty-two million.

speaker1: hang on a second! he-- all of them?! 
speaker2: he's not done.
speaker3: wait -- prado museum, the picasso -- that was moretti.

speaker1: he in moretti. it's one of his aliases. 
speaker2: anything else?
speaker1: udc bank in geneva, `94. nineteen million in bearer bonds. the louvre --'95 and twice in '96.
speaker1: he left a post-it note on the mona lisa that said set me up."
speaker3: tell them about saint tropez.
speaker1: in 2000, he stole the king of morocco's 230 foot yacht. vanished into thin air. crew surfaced a few days later in a life raft. couldn't remember a thing.

speaker1: how do you hide a two hundred foot yacht?! 
speaker2: if the king knows, he's not telling. he received it back a month later.

speaker1: how far is your house, baron? 
speaker2: twenty minutes by helicopter.
speaker3: one guy did all those jobs?
speaker4: how'd he get all those aliases?
speaker5: until a month ago interpol were convinced that the heists were the work of twelve different people.
speaker6: the french national police just gave him a nickname. "le renard nuit" -- the night fox.
speaker5: scotland yard said he's the new lemarc.
speaker7: scotland yard never saw lemarc.

speaker1: personal information? 
speaker2: some say he's one of these guys that thinks because he was born in a penthouse, he controls the elevator business. others say he turned out okay when you consider how rich his parents were.
speaker3: taxes over here are brutal. people don't realize.
speaker2: father was a big-time industrialist, got into the cellphone market on the ground floor. mother inherited. had maids as a child. he's a public figure, people know who he is. he's been rumored to run for office in spain, even though he doesn't appear to live there.

speaker1: what do you have in there, the mona lisa? 
speaker2: please.
speaker1: you know what? i don't like that painting either. i don't like anything van gogh did.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: spit it out, linus.

speaker1: he's rarely alone. i think it's a compulsion. i have a list of names here...it was just the first week. 
speaker2: all right, moving on, is there anything else we need to know about this guy before we--
speaker3: did we forget to mention he's a viscount?
speaker2: a what?
speaker4: viscount. as in nobility.

speaker1: last time i checked titles like that went out with a little number i like to call the french revolution-- 
speaker2: spain.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: his title. it's spanish. mother's cousin.

speaker1: are you on steroids? 
speaker2: let's try again. give me five games this time.
speaker3: you are worse than sampras. you should be paying me.
speaker4: pardon me, sir.
speaker4: two gentlemen. they say they met you in amsterdam last week.
speaker3: put them on the veranda and get them a drink. i'll be right up.

speaker1: other way around. 
speaker2: are you sure? usually i'm so good at that.
speaker2: this is edmund. edmund. rusty. danny.
speaker1: nice to meet you. edmund. you a tennis pro?
speaker3: actually, no, i'm the king of morocco.
speaker2: sadly, i can't show you my favorite painting of all -- a degas that used to hang right there -- because it was stolen recently.
speaker1: that's awful.
speaker4: the criminal element is everywhere these days.
speaker1: listen, francois--

speaker1: please. call me baron. 
speaker2: we came here for the vanderspeigle certificate--
speaker1: that's not for sale.
speaker2: your degas is worth three times that. you want your painting back, you're going to have to trade.
speaker1: you actually expect me to believe that you are in possession of my degas? you are living in a...in a bubble.

speaker1: he used the word "amateur"? 
speaker2: you said we could show him the painting right, to prove that we had it.
speaker3: yes.
speaker4: he still wouldn't trade.
speaker5: we need to teach him a lesson.

speaker1: absolutely. 
speaker2: all right, let's stay calm. we don't need to over-react here. he said some disrespectful things, that's true. but why antagonize this guy? why get into something with him? he's young and he's filthy rich, and he's got time on his hands. we don't want to become his betty noir. we can just fence his painting and earn a lot more than we would have from the certificate.
speaker3: it's about reputation. you said so yourself. we have to get that certificate to evelyn's buyer or--
speaker2: we'll make enough selling the degas to pay off her buyer--
speaker4: then why did you make that trip down there in the first place, if you didn't want to get into something?
speaker2: saul?
speaker5: turn his name over to isabel. in exchange for getting off our backs.
speaker5: short of that...the only appropriate response is to steal his next job right out from under him. just like he did to us.
speaker1: we don't even know our next job.
speaker2: we got ten million in that closet.

speaker1: without their signatures, you can't do anything. you can't pull the suspects over, you can't do surveillance on them, you're not even allowed to contact them. they're real sticklers about sovereignty issues here. 
speaker2: isabel, i couldn't possibly sign those documents in good conscience without talking to you about the case in detail. i realize you're in a hurry and my schedule for the rest of the day is quite full, so perhaps, if you're interested in being expedient, we could discuss the case...over dinner.
speaker1: foucquet's at eight-thirty. apparently their's a private room. better bring your kevlar. don't stop for that.

speaker1: that's not how i want to go. 
speaker2: no.
speaker2: very theatrical of you...asking to meet here. like we're spies meeting to do an exchange.
speaker1: why are you doing this to us?
speaker2: doing what?
speaker1: this is a game for you. for us it's survival. are you that bored? i mean...
speaker2: no. i wouldn't do that. no... the truth is...i made a bet. or maybe a better word is a "wager".
speaker1: what kind of wager?

speaker1: yes, 163 million is a lot of money. it attracts attention. so, in a way, you brought this problem with me on yourselves. you're victims of your own success. 
speaker2: here's what i'm going to do. you tell me the name of your mentor. i'll call him up and i'll tell him that you're the greatest thief in the world...that i accept that to be true.... and in return...you leave us alone, let us go about our business. how about that?
speaker1: he said you'd probably say something like that -- but he said you'd probably have your fingers crossed when you said it.
speaker1: so in this situation -- for the purposes of my wager -- words aren't good enough. i have to prove this on the ground.
speaker2: this mentor of yours...was he a good thief in his day?
speaker1: who, lemarc?

speaker1: yeah. him. 
speaker2: who?
speaker3: i thought so too.
speaker4: lemarc. the lemarc.
speaker4: hates me. he hates all of us.
speaker5: hell, this could go on forever.
speaker1: no. it's going to be settled by one more job. a single object.
speaker4: whatever it is, let's just let him have it.
speaker1: we can't.
speaker2: because of pride?
speaker1: because we beat him, he'll pay benedict off.
speaker5: now we're talking.

speaker1: one score, for the whole thing? 
speaker2: what do we have to do? i mean, is it a fair bet or is it like...the coronation egg or something?
speaker3: he wants us to steal the coronation egg!
speaker1: that's just... that's...what is that?
speaker3: the holy grail.
speaker4: carl faberge, the greatest goldsmith in history, constructed the coronation egg in 1896 for the wedding of czar nicholas and alexandra. every world class thief in the last 108 years has tried to steal it. no one has even come close.
speaker3: that's because it's cursed.
speaker5: what?
speaker3: it's un-stealable.
speaker6: it's the only thing in lemarc's entire career that he went after but failed to get. he tried three times.
speaker6: we get the egg and we're free.

speaker1: that's great, except we can't get it. 
speaker2: it's not possible.
speaker3: then we go to jail.
speaker4: well...where is it now?

speaker1: i'm going to need surveillance on both hotels, phone taps, room bugs, people in the lobby and by every exit. 
speaker2: yes, absolutely.
speaker1: if i had to guess i'd say i'll need at least 25 people, a dozen vehicles...and an on-call air unit.
speaker2: yes, absolutely.
speaker1: okay, one more thing, and this is crucial: these guys are extremely, sophisticated at avoiding electronic surveillance, so we'll need real state of the art stuff.

speaker1: yes, absolutely. 
speaker2: okay. good. now what time am i meeting captain giordano?
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: no, what time?
speaker1: yes...absolutely...
speaker2: i see...so...you've spoken with the pope and he's okay with autographing my breasts?
speaker1: yes, absolutely.

speaker1: what am i looking at? 
speaker2: a tr354 infra red motion detection system. it's the gold standard.
speaker1: saul and linus back yet?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: no?
speaker2: and i can't find rusty.

speaker1: what? 
speaker1: well, i don't know, but that's one nasty lock.
speaker2: seen rusty?
speaker1: we thought he was with you.

speaker1: robert. i could've killed you. 
speaker2: i'm older.
speaker1: i hope so. what are you doing in my room?
speaker2: i thought maybe we could get some coffee.
speaker1: no, thanks.
speaker2: okay, how about a two week trip to zanzibar?
speaker1: please don't.

speaker1: fine, coffee then. whatever you say. 
speaker2: why do i want to have coffee with you?
speaker1: how should i know? sorry about your mom. isable nods. rusty she was a real...
speaker2: she hated you.
speaker1: well, she was nice enough to hide it from me. some people can't even do that.
speaker2: she hated everybody.
speaker2: you'll never get it by the way.
speaker1: get what?
speaker2: you'll think you've got it, you'll be so close that you'll be able to taste it and then this guy, the night fox or whoever he is, will just take it -- right out of your hand -- just like he did in amsterdam. he's as good as lemarc.
speaker1: it's not possible.
speaker2: you're in a bubble.

speaker1: no, that won't work either. the ir will pick it up before you even get close. 
speaker2: look, if we're having this much trouble, and we've got ten guys toulour must be pulling his hair out.

speaker1: would you call that bubble-shaped? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she pulled a gun on me.

speaker1: are you back on? 
speaker2: i'm selling. she ain't buying.
speaker3: more importantly, what kind of reception is the italian police giving her?

speaker1: captain giordano is handling an urgent interrogation. he'll be up as soon as it is completed. please wait in here. 
speaker2: naples they're a joke! the only decent player they have is pasqualli -- and he's a pussy.
speaker3: pasqualli runs circles around bologna's backfield every time.
speaker4: pasqualli could single-handedly--
speaker5: what are they talking about?

speaker1: damn-it. 
speaker2: all right, okay. let's not be defeatists.... what about that mirror trick that akimbo tried at the--
speaker1: --there's no mirror thin enough to avoid tripping the lasers.

speaker1: what's he doing now? 
speaker2: nothing. just reading the papers at a cafe. oh, no, wait. a woman just sat down next to him.... he's getting her phone number.
speaker3: wow. what are those?
speaker2: jimmy chu.
speaker3: i've never seen that color.
speaker1: okay, take it easy over there.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker4: we thought someone was following us.
speaker5: we gave 'em the shake. caught 'em napping.

speaker1: ...reason to believe these men... ...are going to try to steal the coronation egg when it is actually put on display next week. i need official authorization to surveil and pursue these suspected criminals on italian soil. 
speaker2: yes, absolutely.
speaker1: and i'll need substantial resources from your department. can i count on that?
speaker2: yes, absolutely.
speaker1: so, captain, what do you think of my skirt?
speaker2: i think it's very beautiful. why, don't you like it?

speaker1: i don't usually call for a second date. for you i make an exception. 
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: i think it's good that we talk. you see, you should stop following me. you're wasting your time. i'm going to let you go first and get caught. then they will increase the security even more, and then i will steal the egg. then lemarc can make his decision.
speaker2: you sound confident.
speaker1: confident? this is a very american word. i am arrogant. there's a difference.
speaker2: doesn't matter if you're that good.
speaker1: i can move objects with my mind.
speaker1: you don't believe it?
speaker2: do you?
speaker1: are you done stirring your sugar?
speaker2: that's fantastic. listen, i appreciate the call, and, best of luck.

speaker1: danny. i'm serious. sit down, please. 
speaker2: you're telekinetic, is that what you're telling me?
speaker1: yes. but...it's a curse. a nightmare. everything is too easy. but then lemarc says i'm still not the best. so i take his challenge. and you will fail, and i will win, and so what? what does it prove? what is he trying to show me?

speaker1: ms. lahiri, you're in italy now. we are a sovereign nation. we're not some adjunct, some administrative district of the eu. when europol calls we don't jump up and tap dance for you. if you want to work in italy, then you have to do it under italian authority...and that means you have to talk to commander andriotti...who, i'm sure, will be happy to meet with you some time next week-- 
speaker2: next week!
speaker1: --when he returns from vacation.

speaker1: he said he has to get approval from someone else and they're on sick leave. 
speaker2: vacation.
speaker1: sorry i fell asleep.
speaker2: we both did. i'm exhausted.

speaker1: i know the case, yes. 
speaker2: oh...

speaker1: excuse me... 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: um...did i...? i think i saw you...yesterday.
speaker2: oh yeah?
speaker1: the police were chasing you.
speaker2: you sure your eyes aren't broken?
speaker1: i'm quite sure it was you.
speaker2: well, then i'm not gonna argue. can i buy you a coffee?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: we've got to stop meeting like this.

speaker1: what are they talking about all the time?! 
speaker2: soccer. he doesn't like naples....thinks they're a bunch of...sissies. can i ask you a question? will you come to zanzibar with me on friday?
speaker1: stop it.

speaker1: what's that? 
speaker2: an order signed by commander andriotti instructing you to "provide any and all support that agent lahiri requests, whenever she requests it." he looks at it.
speaker1: it's good, yes. okay.
speaker1: that's a very nice blouse you wear today.

speaker1: when dominique goes back with thomas to check the trunk, the money shouldn't be in the briefcase. franklin should have double-crossed them. 
speaker2: that could be a great moment, when he's on the ground.
speaker3: and you think thomas is going to get blown up.
speaker2: hey.
speaker4: another camera here and here. and have a guard here at all times so any attempt to disable the system will be detected. all your ir devices need to be fitted with reflective faces otherwise a uv later can be used to burn the sensors out.
speaker1: she just walked in there like patton or something. she's changing...everything and-- there were so many cops with her. i've never seen so-- danny plats up his hand to stop him.

speaker1: i don't understand. if her father was a thief...why's she such a hardass? i mean you'd think she'd have a little sympathy for us. 
speaker2: when she was twelve her mother told her that her dad got arrested doing a job in russia and died in jail. so i wouldn't count on much sympathy.
speaker3: "this time it's personal".
speaker4: what do you want?
speaker2: ever heard of overkill?
speaker4: i don't even think toulour can get it now.
speaker2: if he gets it, we'll let you arrest us. if we get it, you come away with me to zanzibar--
speaker4: what is your obsession with zanzibar?!
speaker2: do you want to make the bet or not?

speaker1: i'm telling you, with everything she's done in the last twenty-four hours...unless you happen to be best friends with the head of security at the museum, unless you are someone he knows and trusts enough to leave alone in the gallery, after disabling about half of their security system, forget it. we are not stealing that egg... 
speaker2: "someone he knows. someone he trusts...." "someone he knows...."
speaker3: what about someone he doesn't know but trusts?
speaker2: for instance?
speaker3: i'm talking about you know who, who looks an awful lot like you know who...

speaker1: bonjourno. yes. yes. oh...oh, really. well, absolutely. we can have...i can make our presidential suite available. no, no, no. no trouble at all. we'd love... we're honored that she'd think of us... 
speaker1: julia roberts is coming to stay with us!

speaker1: ms. roberts! ms. roberts! why did you come back to rome so soon!! 
speaker2: i...uh...
speaker1: was it to see topher?
speaker2: to see what?
speaker1: topher grace!! your co-star!! is that why you're here?!
speaker2: oh. no. i came to -- to see the--

speaker1: where's danny? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: danny, your husband!!
speaker2: well, he's not really--
speaker3: ms. roberts is very tired!! please let her through! please!

speaker1: i can't do this. 
speaker2: yes, you can.
speaker1: i'm not an actress, danny! and i don't look like her!
speaker2: you do, tess. you really do. i never told you that before, but it's true.
speaker1: come on: my...
speaker1: and my...

speaker1: and my ears. anybody who sees my ears is going to know instantly. 
speaker2: nobody's looking at your ears.
speaker1: yes, danny, they are. they're going to know.
speaker3: when did that happen?
speaker4: we just found out. i arranged a private showing for tomorrow morning before we open the show to the public.
speaker3: i don't understand, why do you have to disable any of the systems--
speaker4: because she might want to get close to the egg, got right up here and look at it. and i'm not going to embarrass myself or this institution by telling her she can't.
speaker3: she's an actress, giovanni, not the pope.
speaker4: do you realize how much free publicity we'll get for this museum, just because she because she decided to come by and look at the egg? she's even agreed to do a photo shoot for us promoting the museum.

speaker1: ...that the people i'm after will exploit. okay, fine. you want to shut down half the electronic system, let me post eight cops in the room... 
speaker2: are you crazy? that's worse than....you want me to treat her like a criminal?

speaker1: where is he? 
speaker2: there. i took a look at the interrogation scene.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: 'cause linus said it was repetitive.
speaker1: it clarifies everything.
speaker2: he said it's too on the nose.
speaker1: what's he, the head of the studio?
speaker2: he's just saying -- oh, no--
speaker1: what?
speaker2: it's not him!
speaker1: what! how did you-- you you said you were watching him the whole time!

speaker1: i was! i mean, i used the bathroom once, but it was quick. you lost him yesterday! 
speaker2: livingston said frank said that rusty said that danny said toulour said don't ever bother following him.

speaker1: i'm sorry. 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: i have to go. right now. i have to leave the country. it could be a while. a month. maybe more.
speaker2: what are you saying? what the are you saying? where are you going?

speaker1: i can't tell you. 
speaker2: when people start talking the way you're talking there are only two possibilities: you're either in intelligence or you're a criminal. and no one i work with has ever worked with you...or even knows your name.
speaker1: you knew what i was the day you met me, isabel.
speaker2: robert...
speaker1: we can talk about it when i get back.
speaker2: no, robert. i have to tell you something.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: i'm taking the job. i'm moving to amsterdam.
speaker1: i can't have this conversation right now. please, isabel. i have to get out of here. i love you.

speaker1: i know how you're planning to do it. i know julia's visit is the key. 
speaker2: who's julia?
speaker1: lemarc knew when to get out. he just quit...with his perfect record intact. now he's a legend. don't do this.
speaker2: lemarc quit because he was 75 years old, isabel. he was tired. his doctor told him if he didn't start taking it easy he was going to have another heart attack. you're dramatizing it.
speaker1: you don't know why lemarc retired, any better than i do. you have no idea.
speaker2: actually, i do. i know exactly why.
speaker1: really? how's that?

speaker1: he told me. 
speaker2: you know lemarc?
speaker1: a little.
speaker2: since when?
speaker1: ten years ago.
speaker2: for how long?
speaker1: for six months.
speaker2: you-- she's so mad she can hardly speak.
speaker2: you knew lemarc? you knew lemarc and never told me? that's the worst thing you've ever done to me. nobody knows more about lemarc than me. how could you do that?
speaker1: i couldn't tell you, then.
speaker2: really awful.
speaker2: then why aren't you as good as toulour? rusty shrugs.

speaker1: i don't want to arrest you, robert. i really don't. but i will if you make me. i will if you go for that egg. 
speaker1: so many times, i waited. you can't do that to a person.
speaker2: isabel--
speaker1: i have to go.

speaker1: you're a photographer. very exacting. you want things a certain way, but you never raise your voice. you're uncompromising. 
speaker2: reuben, what are you doing?
speaker1: oh, we understand each other. i'm mean, the actual words are gibberish to me, but i know what he means. there's a tone, you know. we communicate. i'm sure he'd tell you the same thing. am i right?

speaker1: it's the wrong color. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: hello? he knocks again. 
speaker1: hey! i got your room number from mccormick, i hope you don't mind.
speaker1: this is great. do you have the adjoining room?
speaker2: uh, no.
speaker1: oh. hey. i saw the rough cut of you always, you never. it's so awesome.
speaker2: oh. thank you.
speaker1: it was just like a dub of a lo-rez output, but i could totally see what you were doing. i think you might win again. seriously.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: it really actually looked like you were blind. how did you do that? what is it like, an on-set thing, or was it digital?
speaker2: it was, uh...

speaker1: you can tell me, i won't tell a soul. because if you say it's instinctual, i'm quitting right now. seriously. the way you parted your hair? that was so connected. and that scene with the matches? and when you find out who your real grandmother is and run through the rain and find her on the porch and touch her face? man, that was...you gotta tell steven how much i loved it. 
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: so what are you doing?
speaker2: i'm, uh, getting ready to go out...
speaker1: i mean next. what movie are you doing next?
speaker2: i...i'm having trouble deciding what to do next.
speaker1: is danny working?
speaker2: danny...danny is...danny is...
speaker1: oh, no. is something wrong? have you two...
speaker2: no, no...
speaker1: i'm so sorry. i'm so sorry.
speaker2: no. we're absolutely fine, he's just--

speaker1: i've got to stop asking people about their spouses, it's like always a mistake-- 
speaker2: no, really--
speaker1: listen, i won't say a word. seriously. i'm rooting for you guys, you know that. this is your private business and i totally respect that. no more danny questions from me.
speaker2: thank you. he's fine. danny's fine.
speaker1: hey, cool, whatever. that's what i'll say.
speaker1: so can i come look at that egg with you?

speaker1: it's so beautiful. my 
speaker2: kinda small.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: she leans in close to the egg.
speaker3: i'm not going to set off any alarms?
speaker4: no. no. get as close as you like.
speaker5: julia -- unless you have any objections -- wen and his crew set up for the publicity stills.

speaker1: i was thinking maybe we could get you and topher into some "you always you never" hats and t-shirts for the shoot-- 
speaker2: that's stupid.
speaker1: so stupid! maybe we could put some posters in the background--
speaker2: i don't think we want to be so obvious--
speaker1: i completely agree! stop trying to turn this into some sort of stunt.
speaker3: this isn't going to work.
speaker4: i don't know what you're talking about.

speaker1: hey, j ro, why the quick exit? 
speaker2: i...uh, i have to take some pills.
speaker1: yeah, well, with everything thing you've been going through i can see how you'd need something.
speaker2: they're just aspirin.
speaker1: right. i've never taken aspirin in my life, ever. can you believe that?
speaker2: that's amazing.
speaker1: for me, it's like a control thing.
speaker2: well, with aspirin...it's very beneficial.
speaker1: oh, yeah. i'm sure.

speaker1: who's in charge? 
speaker2: i am.
speaker3: she is.

speaker1: when people think of italy they think of food, wine, the renaissance. they don't realize italy has the scariest prisons in the civilized world. you know why? they're all leftover from the middle ages. they're worse than dirty; they're damp. they're like caves. linus can't look her in the eye. agent molly starr i'm the only hope you've got. 
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: testify against the others in the benedict case.
speaker2: i can't do that.
speaker1: sure you can. you'll get a year, maybe two. the italian charges will be dropped. you and the others will be extradited to the us this afternoon.
speaker1: think about those prisons. think about living there for twenty years, getting out when you're fifty. what a catch you'll be.

speaker1: did you tell dad? 
speaker2: of course she did. we're married, for sake.

speaker1: why didn't you tell me? 
speaker2: i couldn't.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: because you're not an actress. you wouldn't have been so real.

speaker1: i thought you were going to jail. 
speaker2: i'm not going to jail.
speaker1: so you don't think i'm a good actress.
speaker2: you're a terrible liar.
speaker1: i'm a good liar.
speaker2: where did benedict find you?
speaker1: he...
speaker2: at your parent's house.
speaker1: that was...okay, so i'm not a good liar. so what. you're good enough for both of us.
speaker2: exactly.

speaker1: yes, absolutely. 
speaker2: guys. get on there before they leave without you. thanks.
speaker1: hey, no problem. good seeing you, man.
speaker3: take care. see you back home.
speaker2: thanks, scooter.

speaker1: how was rome, air? 
speaker2: put this in the safe, would you?

speaker1: of course, sir. your guests are on the veranda. 
speaker2: guests?

speaker1: i hate you. 
speaker2: i love you.
speaker1: this will ruin me.
speaker2: no, it won't. not if you come to zanzibar.
speaker1: what is it with zanzibar?
speaker2: it's where lemarc is.
speaker2: that one's ours. we can be there in three hours.
speaker2: don't you want to meet him? he wants to meet you.
speaker1: you're asking me to turn my back on my whole life.

speaker1: would you miss it? 
speaker2: i'm a cop. that's who i am.
speaker1: you're only a cop because your father was a thief.
speaker2: who died in a russian jail.
speaker1: according to you mother.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: it means you should meet lemarc.

speaker1: let me guess, you decided you did want to give my lawyer a call. but you lost his card. 
speaker2: no, nothing like that. we just came to collect our money.
speaker1: not only did you fail, half of your crew got pinched! your plan was not good. and you don't look anything like julia roberts! i mean your... ...and your... ...and your ears.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: we thought someone was following us.

speaker1: lemarc told you. of course. 
speaker1: to teach me. he is silent.

speaker1: well, we'll be in touch to make all the arrangements. 
speaker2: no. don't go. please.
speaker2: you are my guests. i will celebrate your victory. besides, you may have noticed, i don't like to be alone.
speaker2: i am feeling more french by the minute. to my first depression.
speaker3: so i think if you really analyze it, you can see that it's inevitable. it's time for us to evolve, en masse. i have to help bring that about whatever way i can, you know. otherwise, the trajectory is fixed. you know what i'm saying?
speaker4: mmm. yes. but i'm through evolving, i think. it's too tiring. i feel pretty evolved. you know, considering.

speaker1: i've got an idea for another dominique story. 
speaker2: can we finish this one first?
speaker1: just let me tell it to you.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: it's like three sentences.
speaker2: i'm serious; you're asking too much.
speaker3: may i look at that when you're through with it?
speaker4: all in all, it was depressingly familiar. the forced camaraderie, the hollow smiles. scared to take a moment's reflection. scared to imagine a different life. we behaved like boys. but...

speaker1: i'm livingston dell. thanks for listening. 
speaker2: when do you want to go back?
speaker3: feel like traveling?
speaker2: yeah. don't you?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker4: tess. danny. this is monica bellucci.
speaker5: hello.
speaker6: hello.
speaker4: we're thinking of taking a trip to the states. take a look around. we'd love to meet some of your friends while we're there.

speaker1: there he is. 
speaker2: gaspar? that was my fa--

speaker1: that's the exact figure, i'm pretty sure. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: so we're clean?
speaker2: you want it in writing?
speaker1: i'll take your word.
speaker2: you're clean.
speaker1: these grudges, they're awful.
speaker2: as soon as someone retaliates, the situation is out of control.

speaker1: this way, there's no need for retaliation. why would there be? 
speaker2: there's plenty for everyone.
speaker1: more than plenty. it's just a matter of sharing.
speaker2: sharing is good.
speaker1: it is. waiter? can i get sparkling water? it's good for my acid reflux.
speaker3: of course.

