speaker1: sweeps by... 
speaker2: pockets his fbi badge, then holsters his gun...

speaker1: any follow-up from l.a.p.d. 
speaker2: no, sir, nothing yet.
speaker1: get them on the phone -- now. what about s.i.s. and our airport teams?
speaker3: we've had everything from psychics to satellites on this. even if castor was here... he must have slipped the net by now...
speaker1: he's here! and we're going to keep looking until we find him!
speaker4: jon, these people have been working round the clock -- you gotta cut them some slack...
speaker1: i'll cut them some slack when i cut myself some slack.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: thank goodness, i feel like icarus in the labyrinth -- where's the men's room?
speaker1: this area is off limits, padre. how did you get in that room? realizing the janitor is already too suspicious, castor puts a priestly arm around him -- and leads him down the hall.
speaker2: okay... i have a confession to make, but you aren't gonna like it. i was planting a bomb.
speaker1: bomb?
speaker2: you know -- boom -- oh, never mind...

speaker1: ... i don't have time to get a warrant from some hung-over judge. just give me the go-ahead, victor, and i promise -- as soon as this is over -- you can brand my with the fourth amendment. 
speaker2: sir, your wife's on line one...
speaker1: tell her to hang on --
speaker3: a jet was chartered at anderson airfield. guess who just showed up to pay for it? pollux troy.
speaker1: scramble the reaction team -- we're moving out. and get one of our people on that plane.
speaker3: but there's still no sign of castor...
speaker1: where one brother goes, the other's sure to follow...

speaker1: you're 26 minutes late. the casing didn't fit -- right? i knew that cheap-shit dietrich would rip us off... 
speaker2: oh, -- !
speaker1: what!?
speaker2: i forgot to turn the thing on!
speaker1: you're kidding, right? he's kidding... ... are you kidding!?
speaker2: bro -- everything went fine.
speaker1: i hate when you call me bro.
speaker2: thanks for babysitting.
speaker3: anything else?
speaker2: i'll contact you when we get the rest of the money. oh, and stat away from downtown. the inversion layer's going to be pretty thick around the 18th.
speaker2: let's go, let's go!
speaker4: would you like anything else?
speaker2: hell, yes... it's the only way to fly.
speaker5: castor yanks open the door.
speaker2: what's wrong?

speaker1: it's archer. go, 
speaker2: f.b.i.! throttle down, captain!
speaker3: get out.
speaker4: you're not playing chicken with two tons of aluminum...
speaker3: get out!

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: the horizontal elevator's smashed!
speaker1: shoots the pilot -- then takes the controls. he struggles to maneuver the jet. suddenly... a biplane descends right at them -- about to land.

speaker1: forget it -- go! go! 
speaker2: wherever they put you, i'll find a way to get you out...
speaker3: -- not unless you want that 200 i.q. splattered all over the floor. we got him now, jon.
speaker4: that's what you always say. seal it off. i'm going in.
speaker2: jon, i'm getting a little annoyed by your obsessive need to spoil my fun.
speaker4: and how much will your 'fun' net you this time?
speaker2: what's it to you? i declare it. here i am, back in the states for less than a week --
speaker4: you're under arrest. incredibly, you still have the right to remain silent --
speaker2: i've got something going down on the eighteenth... it's gonna be worse than anything ever dumped on the pharaoh. i'll give it up -- but my brother and i have to walk.
speaker4: no discussion -- no deals.
speaker2: what're you gonna do with me locked up? you'll drive your wife and kid nuts! i bet your daughter is just about ripe by now. what's her name, janie?
speaker3: tell me he didn't get away again...

speaker1: where's my brother?! i want to see my brother! 
speaker2: the oversight committee would've roasted us for this one -- thank it paid off. fine work.
speaker3: real fine, victor. especially the casualties.
speaker2: classified information. no photographs.
speaker2: you okay, jon? then go home. tell eve.

speaker1: hi... ... what's wrong? 
speaker2: she complimented for her 'f' in history with an 'a' in shoplifting...
speaker1: nice stunt, jamie. you break the law and i'm expected to ignore it?
speaker3: that's right -- it's all about you. don't even ask me what happened.
speaker1: okay. what happened?
speaker3: like you'd ever believe me!
speaker2: well, you tried. you failed miserably, but you tried.
speaker1: why won't she even talk to me?
speaker2: maybe because you taught her never to speak to strangers. i'm sorry... that wasn't fair.
speaker2: i've got patients waiting. try again, jon. she hates you -- but she needs you.
speaker1: eve...
speaker2: jon -- what is it?
speaker2: is it -- him? it's... it's over?
speaker1: i'm going to make everything up to you and jamie. i'll put in for a desk job. we'll go away, get counseling -- anything you want.

speaker1: much appreciated. now let's get back to work, okay? 
speaker2: the c.i.a. sent this over. what should i do with it?
speaker1: send it back and tell them to stop wasting the taxpayers' money.
speaker2: no, sir.
speaker2: four years -- and he still calls me 'miss brewster.'

speaker1: how's loomis? 
speaker2: he needs some surgery, but he's going to be okay. that's the good news...
speaker1: go on.
speaker2: ... brodie and miller from special ops need to see you.
speaker1: i don't have time for those cloak and dagger guys.
speaker3: you better make time, jon. we found this in the jet wreckage -- among pollux troy's effects...
speaker1: porcelain casing... thermal cloak... undetectable payload.
speaker4: powerful enough to flatten ten city blocks.
speaker1: 'worse than anything ever dumped on the pharaohs.' get pollux troy. now.

speaker1: that bomb was just a crossword puzzle to me... a mental exercise. i never built it... 
speaker2: he's lying.
speaker3: he's hooked up to a full-spectrum polygraph.
speaker2: pollux is a manipulative psychopath. he can control his heartbeat, his sweat glands, his blood pressure...
speaker3: jon, i trust your instincts, i always have. but d.c. wants more evidence. and frankly, so do i.
speaker2: you'll get all the evidence you need when ten thousand people die.
speaker3: we'll get a team right on it. but we can't evacuate the city on what amounts to a hunch.
speaker2: that bomb has been built, it's out there somewhere and it's going to detonate...

speaker1: didn't castor give any clue where the bomb might be? 
speaker2: only one person knows -- his brother pollux. and he'll keep his mouth shut until it blows.
speaker1: we could plant an agent in his cell -- get him to spill the location.
speaker2: pollux is way too paranoid. the only person he'd talk to about that bomb is castor himself. and dead men can't talk.
speaker1: there might be a way around that...
speaker3: tubes and hoses are plugged into every orifice.

speaker1: why are you keeping him alive? as long as he's breathing, he's dangerous. 
speaker2: relax, he's a turnip.
speaker3: we can arrange for you to enter erewhon prison -- as castor troy.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker4: i think i'd better answer that question. malcolm hoag. i run the physiological camouflage unit for special ops.
speaker1: i know who you are.
speaker2: but you don't know what he can do. physical augmentation; enhancement surgery...
speaker3: ... he can disguise a compromised agent or alter the likeness -- even the voice -- of a government witness.
speaker4: let me show you how it's done. i think you'll recognize our patient...

speaker1: with our new generation of anti- inflammatories, healing is accelerated from weeks to days. by his next paycheck, he won't even remember which ear he lost. your situation, however, would be a little less permanent... 
speaker2: -- and a lot more classified.
speaker3: this'll fool pollux.
speaker1: that is a state-of-the-art morpho- genetic template. the inside can be built to match the exact shape of your skull; the outside -- exactly like castor's. then we fit his face right on top --
speaker4: -- and you become him.
speaker3: you're talking about removing the guy's face?
speaker2: borrowing, jon. the procedure's completely reversible.
speaker4: one way or the other -- the mission ends on the eighteenth.
speaker2: you know castor better than anyone. you've lived and breathed him for years -- hell, you even look a little like him.
speaker3: find yourself another lab-rat.
speaker4: if you don't do this -- castor will beat us again. he'll beat you again...
speaker1: i don't think that went very well.
speaker2: trust us, doc...
speaker4: ... he'll jerk around. then he'll be back.

speaker1: i'm in a hurry, dietrich. so you've only got ten seconds to go through your usual litany of lies, empty threats, and moronic denials. then i'm coming over there -- 
speaker2: if you're in such a hurry -- why are you wasting your time with me? i'm just an art dealer.
speaker1: you're a dealer, all right: technical secrets, munitions...
speaker2: you've never proven any of that. and when my bitchy, never-been- laid femi-nazi lawyer gets here, she's going to...
speaker1: time's up.

speaker1: the only ticking bomb i see is inside his head. he's getting worse, tito. 
speaker2: don't worry, sir. it's all an act...

speaker1: ... okay! castor called me but i blew him off... i swear i never saw him. and i don't know anything about any bomb! 
speaker2: let him go, but i want him watched... who's next?
speaker3: just dietrich's sister...

speaker1: when was the last time you saw castor troy? 
speaker2: who cares? he's dead.
speaker1: answer the question.
speaker2: look, i'm clean. i teach kids now --
speaker1: sasha -- you are a felon, on probation for harboring castor troy. so it's in your best interest to cooperate. would you like your son put in a foster home?
speaker2: no, but i'm sure you'd love it -- you sick bastard.
speaker1: when was the last time you saw castor troy?
speaker2: i haven't seen him for years.

speaker1: what about lazarro? 
speaker2: no way -- the red tape alone would take a month. this is a black-bag operation -- completely off the books.
speaker3: if you need him, tito can help you prepare. but you know the drill: you can't tell anyone -- not the director, not your wife... nobody.
speaker1: i'm in.

speaker1: i was dreaming... 
speaker2: something good?
speaker1: i'm not sure... you were flying this weird old stunt plane... doing flips... walking on the wings... i was watching from the ground -- when you fell. you had a parachute, but you wouldn't open it.
speaker2: did you catch me?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: how come?
speaker1: i don't know... maybe because you've never needed my help.
speaker2: come on, you made that up, didn't you?
speaker1: ... maybe i did... ... maybe i didn't...
speaker1: it's all right, jon.
speaker2: after all these years, i still can't get it out of my head -- an inch to the left, matty would still be alive.
speaker1: and you wouldn't be.
speaker1: things will get better now that you're home. everything will be better -- now that... that man is finally out of our lives.
speaker2: eve...
speaker2: ... if i had to do something to find some closure... i should do it, shouldn't i?... no matter how crazy?
speaker1: oh, -- you're going on assignment again...
speaker2: one last time. and while i'm gone, i want you and jamie to go to your mother's. it's important...
speaker1: you said you'd be here! you promised! what could be more important than that?
speaker2: i can't tell you... except only i can do it.
speaker1: you want me to tell you it's okay to leave? okay, go on! go!

speaker1: jon, this is goddam insane. you can't do it. 
speaker1: you haven't got a chance in of fooling pollux. castor drinks, smokes and walks around with a 24- hour hard-on. he's nothing like you --
speaker2: don't worry... if hoag can do half what he claims, i'll get pollux to talk.
speaker1: it's not that simple, jon... becoming another person -- especially him -- nobody can come all the way back from that... not even you.
speaker2: keep this for me.

speaker1: let's walk through it, jon. your blood types are different, but we can't do anything about that. otherwise, nature is cooperating nicely. the height difference is negligible -- within 1/2 an inch. eye color -- almost a perfect match. size, flaccid, essentially the same -- substantial. 
speaker1: hairline will be adjusted with laser-shears... micro-plugs for the body hair... the teeth will be bonded to match castor's...
speaker1: how about an abdominoplasty?
speaker2: abdomino -- what?
speaker1: a tummy tuck. on the house.
speaker2: do it.

speaker1: nice catch. but you used the wrong hand. 
speaker1: shoot me. shoot me!
speaker1: you want to be castor troy? if you hesitate for a breath, you're finished! now -- shoot me! kill me!
speaker1: you can't do it... because castor is tougher than you...

speaker1: let's see if i missed anything 
speaker1: you realize this has to be removed. then here we go, commander.

speaker1: make sure you get everything -- i'll need to study the tape before the reverse surgery. 
speaker1: vault it.

speaker1: jon -- are you all right? 
speaker2: okay... i'm okay. but my voice... i still sound like me.
speaker3: i implanted a micro-chip onto your larynx.
speaker2: now what?
speaker1: we're down to 72 hours. let's call lazarro. castor troy just came out of his coma.

speaker1: what a week for archer to go on a training op. maybe we should try to contact him. 
speaker2: forget it. he's knee-deep in georgia swamp by now.
speaker3: don't forget -- i ordered a kosher meal...

speaker1: you are now an erewhon inmate -- a citizen of nowhere. human rights zealots, the geneva convention and the p.c. police have no authority here. you have no right... when i say your belongs to me -- i mean it. bend over. 
speaker1: step into them.
speaker1: don't sniff 'em, you perv. just step into them.
speaker2: they're too tight.
speaker1: so's a noose. now keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: the prison's one big magnetic field. the boots'll tell us where you are -- every second of the day. 201 to population.
speaker1: i've got fifty bucks says you're dead by dinner. don't disappoint me.

speaker1: hey, castor -- remember me? 
speaker2: fabrice voisine... sure, i -- -- i believe jon archer busted you for poisoning five members of the the canadian parliament?
speaker3: those scumbags should never have voted against the quebecois. we heard you got wasted.
speaker2: do i look wasted -- asshole?
speaker4: central. i have a disturbance in population. go to lock down --
speaker5: hold that lock down.
speaker2: never -- in -- the -- face.
speaker5: lock 'em down.

speaker1: what? he started it! 
speaker1: when i get out of here --
speaker2: you'll what?
speaker1: i'm going to have you fired.
speaker2: that's two strikes, dubov. one more and you know where you're going. back to your 'suites' -- or no dinner. as archer drops into the line of cons -- he spots pollux waiting for him. girding himself for this first encounter -- he's got a plan.
speaker3: hey, bro...
speaker1: -- pollux?
speaker3: of course it's pollux, what the fuck's wrong with you?

speaker1: you realize, of course, that magnetic humming is designed to drive us insane. if we all don't get brain tumors first. 
speaker2: and that same cloying bambi tape -- over and over...
speaker1: it's like they're begging us to riot. where the are we, anyway? gotta go...
speaker1: ... i'm worried about you.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: your jumpshot has no arc. you used to swagger... now you swish. you're gumming that like a catholic school girl. and why do you keep picking at your finger?
speaker3: i was in a coma...
speaker3: my reflexes, my senses, my memory... everything's jumbled. i can't even tell you why dubov jumped me yesterday.
speaker1: you pollinated his wife the day he was arrested. how could forget that?
speaker3: i've forgotten plenty. look around -- we've screwed over half the freaks in here. what's gonna happen to us if they think i've lost it?
speaker3: i need you to play big brother for once -- till i can fill in a few blanks. think you can handle that?
speaker3: i know i got this on my tenth birthday. i just can't remember why.
speaker1: man -- that was the worst day of our lives!
speaker3: oh, -- mom o-d'd at county general.
speaker1: retching and convulsing while those didn't even try to save her sorry ass. you gave her mouth to mouth -- man -- even then you had some constitution. remember what you swore to me at the funeral?
speaker3: uh -- to kill the doctors?
speaker1: after that. you promised you'd always take care of me.
speaker3: and i bet i kept that promise...
speaker1: only one you've never broken.
speaker3: screw the past. we've got the future to look forward to. we still have tomorrow.
speaker1: no five million bucks... now those red militia crackpots get to keep it.
speaker3: that's not the worst part.
speaker1: what's worse than losing five million bucks?
speaker3: being stuck in this rat-hole when it blows. what you built was a work of art. it belongs in the smithsonian.
speaker1: yeah -- well... the l.a. convention center will have to do...
speaker3: thanks, pollux.
speaker1: 'thanks'? i guess they really did you up.

speaker1: what's the matter? don't you like the new me? 
speaker2: -- castor...?
speaker3: not anymore.
speaker2: it can't be. it's impossible.
speaker3: i believe the phrase dr. hoag used was 'titanically remote'. who knows? maybe the trauma of having my face cut off pulled me out. or maybe really is on my side after all. by the way, i know you don't get the papers in here.
speaker3: terrible tragedy. hoag was such a genius -- but selfish with his artistry. i actually had to torture his assistants to convince him to perform the same surgery on me.
speaker2: you killed them?
speaker3: of course i killed them, you hoag, his staff...
speaker3: miller and brodie --
speaker3: i even paid a visit to your buddy tito.
speaker2: he doesn't know anything about this!
speaker3: come on, jon. i think i know you better than that. i only wish you could have been there to see the look on his face --

speaker1: -- then again, i guess you were there. i torched every shred of evidence that proves who you are. so swallow this -- you are going to be in here for the rest of your life. 
speaker2: castor, don't do this --
speaker1: no discussion, jon -- no deals. now if you'll excuse me, i've got an important government job to abuse, and a beautiful wife to excuse me -- i mean 'make love to.'
speaker3: sorry, sir.
speaker1: it's quite all right. you never know what to expect from a psychopathic criminal...
speaker3: better be nice, castor. you could get mighty lonely now that pollux is gone.
speaker2: pollux is -- what?
speaker3: archer cut him a deal for turning state's evidence. he's been released...
speaker2: walton, you have to listen to me -- right now!
speaker3: or what? you'll have me fired? you're confined until i say otherwise...

speaker1: i suppose it was only a matter of time before you forgot where we lived. 
speaker2: sorry -- the job's been murder lately.
speaker1: so what happened to your 'important' assignment?
speaker2: what do you know about it?
speaker1: i know exactly what you always tell me: absolutely nothing.
speaker2: it didn't work out the way everyone thought it would. where are you off to?
speaker1: i've got surgery.
speaker2: surgery -- are you okay?
speaker1: don't try to charm me -- i'm still angry. there're leftovers in the fridge.
speaker2: have fun at work.
speaker1: what is with you?
speaker2: don't i usually kiss my wife?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: what a dump.

speaker1: the plot thickens. 
speaker2: -- i got your e-mail, karl. that poem was really sweet -- hang on a sec...
speaker2: i'll call you back. you're not respecting my boundaries.
speaker1: i'm coming in, janie.
speaker2: 'janie'?
speaker1: i don't think you heard me... jamie... you have something i want ...
speaker2: clarissa left those here.
speaker1: i won't tell mom if you don't.
speaker2: when did you start smoking?
speaker1: you'll be seeing a lot of changes around here -- daddy's a new man. jamie stares, astonished, as castor goes out.

speaker1: listen, sir... we just want you to know... 
speaker2: we're all really sorry about tito...
speaker3: yeah, well, happens.
speaker3: how's our star witness?
speaker1: he hasn't told us a thing except what kind of mustard he likes on his tongue sandwiches.
speaker2: if that bomb is out there -- we're almost out of time.
speaker4: archer!
speaker4: you made a deal with pollux troy? he's 'a manipulative psychopath.' your own words, jon!
speaker3: just let me do my job, victor.
speaker4: the job i've been protecting for the last eight years. from now on, you go strictly by the book. everything gets cleared by me. understand?

speaker1: you're supposed to be snitching -- making me look good. 
speaker2: 'look good'? seeing that face -- i want to vomit.
speaker1: i'm the one who has to look at this butt-ugly mug every time i pass a mirror. look at my eyes, my chin, my perfect nose -- gone! archer took my life, so i'm taking his. bro, i'm going straight.
speaker2: sounds like they took your brain, too?
speaker1: imagine dillinger as j. edgar hoover. carlos the jackal running interpol. kaddafi heading the mossad. think of the secrets we could sell...
speaker2: the drug agents we could expose. the movie stars we could blackmail!
speaker1: that's just the bottom of the food chain. pollux -- what would happen if somebody planted a bomb on air force one?
speaker2: ... that somebody would get rich. and, i suppose, the nation would be pretty pissed-off.
speaker1: pissed-off, vulnerable... looking for someone to step in, take charge, give them hope again. what if that someone was an f.b.i. hero? a true boy scout and family man -- with a spotless past. imagine where that guy could land -- if the timing's right.
speaker2: it's an audacious dream, caz. but jon archer is hardly a household name.
speaker1: not yet he isn't. but after you 'confess' -- you'll be a free man.

speaker1: ticks down to less than two minutes. 
speaker2: jesus... any suggestions?
speaker3: yeah... run
speaker2: it's protected by a vibration detector... one touch and...
speaker4: evacuate your team, captain.
speaker2: sir, you can't disarm it --
speaker4: just go!
speaker5: stops at 26 seconds.

speaker1: the apparent target was a group of supreme court justices -- due to speak here today. mr. archer, do you have any idea who planted it? 
speaker2: that's classified. but if he's listening i have a message for him: nice try. now you know who's really in charge.

speaker1: don't you guys watch tv? where's the parade? 
speaker1: -- loomis, buzz, uh -- wanda... all of you, thanks from the bottom of my heart. thanks for enduring all those years i was an insufferable boor. from now on -- consider me reborn.
speaker2: stop the presses -- jon archer found a personality...
speaker3: sir... the white house is calling.

speaker1: jon, your career is finally taking of. archer. sure i'll hold... 
speaker1: mr. president, what an honor...

speaker1: how about a game of horse? 
speaker2: don't make me beat your again, dad. it's harmful to my developing psyche.
speaker1: afraid you'll lose?

speaker1: jamie sneers at him. he buries another one. 
speaker2: try putting a higher arc on the ball... and square your shoulders to the basket.
speaker3: gotta go. karl's here.

speaker1: why do i feel like i'm on a blind date? 
speaker2: it's important to keep some mystery... so things stay... unpredictable.
speaker1: 'unpredictable'? you're about as unpredictable as the tide. how long are you going to be gone this time?
speaker2: gone?
speaker1: isn't that what all this is about? the wine, cooking me dinner -- your next assignment?
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere.
speaker1: you always say that -- then you leave.
speaker2: i bet i deserved that. i bet jon archer is the most inattentive, sexless spouse on earth.
speaker1: jon, that's not true --
speaker2: of course it's true, but i'm trying to change? i'm here because i want to be alone with you. i want to see the candle- light dance in your beautiful --
speaker2: -- brown eyes.
speaker2: i wanted it all to be just right... when i told you about my promotion.
speaker1: your what?
speaker2: well, i don't have it yet. but lazarro's getting old -- he won't be around forever. and i'm getting the itch to move up.
speaker1: jon... that's wonderful.
speaker2: so you see, i'm not going anywhere. unless it's upstairs with you...

speaker1: baby, it's like i'm having you for the first time. 
speaker2: don't they ever let us take off these boots?
speaker3: not unless you're sent to the 'clinic.'
speaker2: you mean if i get sick?
speaker3: they don't give two about your health. the clinic's where they send the real hard-cases for attitude adjustment. dubov just got sent down -- and look at wainwright --
speaker3: toughest i ever saw -- after you, of course. now he's a drool case.
speaker2: what did he do?
speaker3: he hit a guard.
speaker4: looking for trouble, castor?
speaker2: as a matter of fact -- yes.

speaker1: where's the mop, he puked all over the place. 
speaker1: -- next time, bring them in before dinner... archer cases the place: above is a catwalk... leading out.

speaker1: oh happy day -- castor troy. 
speaker2: bite hard, scumbag, 'cause you'll be gumming baby food from here on out.
speaker1: get his boots, sergeant.
speaker3: dubov -- come on!

speaker1: there! 
speaker2: let's go!

speaker1: come on... come on... 
speaker2: the chopper settles over the zodiac.

speaker1: last night, i thought -- this isn't my husband. 
speaker1: then i woke up in the middle of the night -- and found you passed out in the study.
speaker2: i couldn't sleep -- you roll around a lot. anyway, i'm late.
speaker1: jon, you know what day it is. i know it's difficult for you, but we still have to go.
speaker2: can't we skip it just this once? i gotta 'protect and serve', you know.
speaker1: 'protect and serve' later. you're going.
speaker2: okay, if you insist. but -- you drive.
speaker3: a pastoral, hilly area near the coast.
speaker2: so who's this karl creep jamie's been seeing? he's a little old for her, isn't he?
speaker1: i don't know... they're about the same ages we were when we met. remember the all-night dentist?
speaker2: sure, how could i forget. by the way, you never said anything about last night...
speaker1: aren't you going to get that?
speaker1: jon -- this is hardly the time or place.

speaker1: happy birthday, matty. 
speaker1: he took our baby, jon. he took our little boy.

speaker1: you picked a helluva day to leave your beeper off! 
speaker2: what happened?
speaker1: castor's dead!
speaker2: he's -- what?
speaker3: somehow he escaped from erewhon. but a prison chopper mowed him down just off long beach harbor...
speaker2: where's the body?
speaker1: it hasn't been recovered yet.
speaker2: 'it hasn't been recovered yet!' you people have no idea who you're dealing with! i want everyone on this, reports on the half hour, and all leads get routed through my office.
speaker3: l.a.p.d.? even if he is alive, castor isn't stupid enough to come back to the city.
speaker2: he's alive -- and he's already here. move!

speaker1: dr. archer please. it's an emergency. -- her husband. 
speaker1: hello, eve -- i know this sounds crazy, but -- dammit.

speaker1: how did this happen, sweetie? 
speaker2: she fell off her big-wheel.
speaker3: dr. archer -- your husband's on three.
speaker1: get child services down here -- and don't let her father leave. jon? hello?
speaker4: eve, listen carefully. the man you think is your husband -- isn't.
speaker1: who is this?
speaker4: please, just listen! take jamie and go to your mother's in santa fe. don't tell him where you're going -- just go.
speaker1: whoever you are -- don't call again...
speaker4: i need to speak to director lazarro immediately... i have information about castor troy.

speaker1: this is jon archer. who's calling? 
speaker2: well, if you're jon archer... i guess this must be castor troy...
speaker1: i've gotta hand it to you, jon. you're doing a respectable job of being me. but let's face it, we both liked it better the way it was. so before the cops blow your brains out -- why not tell me where you are...
speaker2: if you were really me, you'd know -- no discussion, no deals.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: ten bucks he's the guy who popped tito!
speaker3: 9-1-1? i want to report a stolen car and don't put me on hold!
speaker4: archer drives on -- listening to kfwb.
speaker5: ... the escapee is considered extremely dangerous. if you have any information concerning the whereabouts of castor troy...

speaker1: jon archer... some poor schmuck's in big trouble. 
speaker2: yeah -- me.
speaker1: christ, castor.
speaker2: drive. and punch up your cellular -- i need you to make some calls.
speaker1: you're gonna get me busted!
speaker2: you're already busted, dietrich. it's just a matter of time before they pick you up.
speaker1: man, when you came to me about that bomb -- i knew i should have blown you off... but that's my curse -- i just can't say no to a friend.
speaker2: you can't say no to money.
speaker1: that's my other curse.

speaker1: helluva place, dietrich. so what's the big surprise? 
speaker2: are you crazy? you're going to bring the feds down on all of us!
speaker3: archer doesn't want you, he wants me! but i'm going to get him first -- with your help.
speaker1: archer's a celebrity now -- he's untouchable -- and you're radioactive.
speaker3: you wanna face-off with castor troy? come on, then! come on! 'cause i've had a real bad day...
speaker3: you're all forgetting who the real enemy is. six months ago, jon archer hauled you in for questioning. he rattled you so bad -- you your armani suit right there in the interrogation room.
speaker3: you laugh, fitch -- the way archer laughed at your last arraignment, when you got down on your knees and tried to blow your way to freedom.
speaker4: we all have a reason to hate jon archer. we all want to see him dead --
speaker3: and nobody's untouchable if we say he's not.
speaker4: it's all worked out. caz has archer's routine down cold.
speaker3: we start with your basic kidnapping. then -- a little surgery.
speaker2: surgery?
speaker3: i'm going to rearrange his face in a way you won't believe.
speaker1: you're an evil caz. but you've got of titanium. count us in.
speaker4: come on -- let's drink to it!

speaker1: how about one of your famous toasts, caz? 
speaker2: to old jobs, new jobs and -- uh -- blow jobs?
speaker3: enough business, caz. let's dance.
speaker2: sorry... i don't...
speaker3: remember the charger's game, caz? the owners box? we did it four times.
speaker2: sure i remember... once a quarter, right?
speaker3: caz? are you okay?
speaker1: when even castor troy can't handle a tab of quantrex... that, dear friends, is the first sorry whiff of old age.

speaker1: -- sasha hassler. age 35. met castor troy in austin, texas, at pearl jam reunion... uh, how you doing, baby? 
speaker2: what the are you doing here? you're supposed to be dead...

speaker1: no... karl, please. 
speaker1: my father -- he's got a gun -- he'll -- he'll --
speaker2: that wimp won't do
speaker3: who are you to call jon archer a wimp?
speaker3: what are you -- stupid?
speaker1: that's just like you. some guy tries to me -- and you side with him.
speaker3: did it look like i was siding with him? did it? you want to play with scummy organ grinders, you better be prepared.
speaker1: you mean like... condoms?
speaker3: i mean like... protection.
speaker1: for me?
speaker3: next time -- slip it in low, then twist it -- so the wound doesn't close.
speaker3: go on, get out of here.
speaker3: no wonder he spent all his time chasing me. who can deal with this family
speaker3: jon archer. where is he?

speaker1: -- i thought he might visit some old friends of yours. and bro, if i didn't know better -- i'd swear this guy likes being you... 
speaker2: uh -- can't we just talk?
speaker3: talk? the only talk i ever heard from you was 'take it off,' 'sit on it,' 'i'll pay you tomorrow.'
speaker3: take off the rest of those rags and get dressed. then get out.
speaker2: not until i finish my business with your brother.
speaker3: i told him to keep those creeps away -- but you're just too big an attraction. look, if the f.b.i. finds out you've been here -- i'll lose my son. so please, just go.
speaker2: i know i've done some things that made your life harder...
speaker3: how would you? you walked out and never looked back.
speaker2: i'm not the same person you remember. and for what it's worth, i'm sorry...
speaker2: not a bad fit.
speaker3: they should. they're yours.
speaker2: nice-looking kid, too
speaker3: of course he is...
speaker3: adam, come here... i want you to meet your father.

speaker1: we've got him sighted. okay, pollux, pull out. 
speaker2: what makes you so sure this guy's gonna set up his own brother?
speaker1: i've never been more certain of anything. get everyone in position. remember -- shoot to kill.
speaker2: you heard the man -- let's saddle up!

speaker1: how old is he? 
speaker2: five. no one knows you're his father. i thought someone might want to hurt him -- just to hurt you...
speaker3: bang! bang! bang!
speaker2: you know mommy doesn't like you playing with these things...
speaker2: you're not holding him right... caz...
speaker1: he's not my son.
speaker2: yes, he is -- !
speaker1: get down!
speaker4: across the way, castor directs the firepower.

speaker1: buzz... 
speaker1: dietrich! the painting!

speaker1: if we make it, we'll meet up at my malibu place. you remember it, caz? 
speaker2: off kanan road -- i know it.
speaker3: thank you, caz... thank you...
speaker2: get the boy out of here...

speaker1: it's too late, jon. your kid loves me. and your wife's an animal. even i can't keep up with her. 
speaker1: tonight i'm going to make her come like niagara falls -- to celebrate your death.

speaker1: remember me? your 'baby brother'? 
speaker1: you tricked me into telling you things i never told anyone...
speaker1: now take it to your grave.

speaker1: pollux... 
speaker2: peering down into the rotunda.

speaker1: ducks the bullets as he disappears. 
speaker2: get a medic -- now!
speaker3: forget him, sir. it's only pollux troy...
speaker4: what happened?
speaker2: what the do you think happened? castor troy just shot him! what are you waiting for? go!

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: we were friends once, jon, so i feel i owe it to you -- to tell you face-to-face... i don't care how much hype you're getting -- you're through. after that massacre last night, i'm ordering a full inquiry into your recent erratic -- and deeply suspect -- behavior.
speaker1: me -- 'erratic'? victor, what are you talking about?
speaker2: you start meeting with brodie and miller. then they die mysteriously. your best friend is murdered -- and you don't seem to give a suddenly you're smoking, drinking, acting like a man with something to hide... maybe you've been bought -- maybe you've lost your mind. but i promise... i'm going to find out.
speaker1: okay, vic, i have a confession to make. but you aren't gonna like it... i'm castor troy.
speaker2: -- i don't understand...
speaker1: now you understand.
speaker1: cancel my four o'clock. and send for the paramedics. victor lazarro's having a heart attack.

speaker1: tac squads pile into armored jeeps. 
speaker2: choppers lift off and veer east.
speaker3: the surveillance cars roar away.

speaker1: commander, what are you doing here? 
speaker2: where should i be? where's everyone else?
speaker1: backing you up! didn't you track castor to the parthenia street terminal?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you radioed in your personal security code. nobody knows that code but you.
speaker2: obviously someone else knows it! get everybody back to their posts -- now!

speaker1: eve... 
speaker1: i'm not going to hurt you. just don't scream, okay? okay?
speaker2: i know you -- you're the one who called. you're castor troy. you killed my son --
speaker1: -- i called, but i'm not castor. i'm your husband. archer holds onto her as she struggles again.
speaker1: now, you're going to listen. the last time we saw each other -- was in this room. we had a fight after i told you i had to go away. my assignment -- jon archer's assignment -- was to enter a federal prison as castor troy.
speaker2: how did he expect to do that?
speaker1: an f.b.i. surgeon gave me castor's face. he handled the transplant, the vocal implant, everything. but somehow castor came out of his coma -- and killed everyone who knew about the mission. but not before he was transformed into me. the back door clicks open. a voice booms out.
speaker3: dr. archer, are you okay?
speaker1: if you need hard evidence, get it. your husband's blood type is o negative. castor's is a.b.
speaker1: remember the parachute dream? i'm falling, eve... i'm falling...

speaker1: i want you guys here around-the- clock. and stay off the lawn. 
speaker1: you're all in knots. maybe another date night will help you relax...
speaker2: not tonight... i'm way behind in my continuing ed.
speaker1: you think i've been acting strange. like a completely different person.
speaker2: -- yes.
speaker1: okay, i have a confession to make. but you aren't going to like it...
speaker1: and to prove it, i'm taking you and jamie away on a trip -- right after the memorial service.
speaker2: what memorial service?
speaker1: victor lazarro had a heart seizure... right in my office. it was horrible...
speaker2: oh, my castor pours it on -- feigning immense grief.
speaker1: first tito... now victor... ... please don't tell me i'm going to lose you, too...
speaker2: of course not.
speaker1: what was that?
speaker2: what was what?
speaker1: something bit me.
speaker2: probably a mosquito -- i'll close the window.

speaker1: sorry, dr. archer. where are you going at this hour? 
speaker2: there's been an emergency at the hospital.
speaker1: one of us will have to you.
speaker2: fine... but please don't wake my husband... he's exhausted.

speaker1: please be o-neg. please... 
speaker2: thanks for believing me.
speaker2: what are you doing? where did you get that gun?
speaker1: i took it from my fake husband.
speaker2: why point it at me? i'm the real thing.
speaker1: i don't know that. maybe jon's already dead.
speaker2: what more proof do you need?
speaker1: tell me... tell me about the all- night dentist.
speaker2: ... i took a date out for chicken and ribs -- not knowing she was a vegetarian. when the night couldn't get worse, she broke her tooth on a pebble that got into her three-bean salad somehow she and i had fun driving around looking for an all-night dentist... and even though it must have hurt -- you still kissed me.
speaker1: christ, jon! how could you put us in this position? do you know -- do you know what he did to me...?
speaker2: whatever happened, whatever he did -- i know it's my fault and i know i can never make it up to you --
speaker1: but you're well going to try. first -- how are we going to get you out of this?

speaker1: this will knock him out for hours. 
speaker2: good. what's his schedule tomorrow?
speaker1: he doesn't tell me anymore than you ever did... all i know is -- tomorrow we're going to victor's memorial service.
speaker2: victor... tito... they both died thinking i killed them... and in a way... i did.
speaker1: jon -- you can't think about that now.
speaker2: -- what happens after the memorial?
speaker1: he's taking jamie and me away.
speaker2: and neither of you will be coming back. where's the service?
speaker1: saint mary's-by-the-sea. archer reacts... the irony's not lost on him.
speaker1: what are you going to do?
speaker2: hit him with a trank dart. once he's unconscious -- i'll try to get to buzz and wanda before the security team gets to me.
speaker1: what else can i do?
speaker2: think up a good excuse. i don't want you or jamie anywhere near that service.
speaker1: i can cover for jamie. but if i'm not there, he'll suspect something... the second you make your move, all hell's going to break loose. if i'm there beside him -- i can take charge. i'm his wife, remember? there's no way around it -- for once, you need me.
speaker2: i've always needed you...
speaker1: jon -- what are the odds?
speaker2: terrible. but it's the best we can do with what we have. if it doesn't happen, take jamie and don't look back...
speaker1: it'll happen.
speaker2: do doctors travel in packs?
speaker1: only when we're golfing.

speaker1: jon! what are you doing here? 
speaker2: that's what you're going to explain to me.
speaker1: didn't the police tell you? there was an emergency.
speaker1: jon -- stop it! mr. alandro is very ill!
speaker2: not as ill as he's going to be...
speaker2: sorry. but what's a guy to think when his wife runs off in the middle of the night?
speaker1: it's my fault. i should've woken you up before i left. now please let me get back to work.

speaker1: stay here. watch her like a hawk. 
speaker2: think she knows?
speaker1: who cares? she's going to be dead by tonight anyway. they're all going to be dead. the wife, the kid... and the father.

speaker1: how's the boy? 
speaker2: his ears are still ringing -- but he'll be okay.
speaker2: the truck's all gassed up. look, caz, there'll be f.b.i. agents all over that place. maybe i can talk my brother into helping us.
speaker1: 'us'? no, sasha -- believe me, this isn't your fight.
speaker1: thanks...

speaker1: where's jamie? 
speaker2: that's what i'd like to know. she stole fifty dollars from my purse and took off.
speaker2: don't act so stunned, jon. you know how hard it is to get that girl into a dress.
speaker1: i'll deal with her later.
speaker2: good. because i am fed up.

speaker1: peers down through scope -- seeing... 
speaker2: we are here to celebrate the life of victor lazarro. we all know him as a man who dedicated himself to defending this great nation -- first, as a highly decorated admiral -- then, as west coast director of the f.b.i. but not all of you know what a deeply spiritual man he was. it was his wish that his requiem mass be performed in latin. in nomine patris, et filii et spiritus sancti. amen...
speaker3: fills the trank-dart with sedative.
speaker2: continues the solemn ritual.
speaker2: domine, de morte aeterna, in die illa tremenda quando caeli movendi sunt et terra...

speaker1: thanks anyway, mom -- 
speaker2: steadies himself, re-aims the sniper rifle.

speaker1: the admiral's family will now take his ashes to the sea... 
speaker2: lars -- take jamie, bring the car around, then meet us at that boathouse... guests head for their cars. eve seizes the moment and steps over to wanda and buzz.
speaker3: wanda -- i need to talk to you.
speaker4: sure... what's wrong?
speaker3: never mind --
speaker2: come on, baby. i've got a surprise for you.

speaker1: look who we caught creeping around -- castor troy. 
speaker2: why is he here?
speaker1: before i turn him in, i thought we'd pay him back for everything he's put us through...
speaker1: come on, baby. join the fun --
speaker1: too bad. part of me was hoping you didn't know.
speaker1: did you really think it would be that easy, you fucks? sorry, baby. castor troy is about to murder you and our daughter... but i promise you won't die unavenged.
speaker3: this is between you and me. leave them out of this.
speaker1: it was between you and me. even your little boy -- that wasn't supposed to happen. but you couldn't let it go.
speaker3: no father could.
speaker1: appealing to my sense of 'family' won't work, jon. i thought you knew me better than that
speaker3: i know some things that even you don't know, caz. you have a son.
speaker1: i imagine i've got a dozen kids -- so what? no more head games... first your wife dies. then your daughter. then you.
speaker1: just one big happy family...
speaker1: dietrich -- aldo -- sasha?
speaker4: that's right, archer. now drop 'em.

speaker1: don't move... 
speaker2: caz -- are you okay?
speaker3: you're making a mistake. i'm castor -- he's archer. sasha, baby -- just give me a minute to explain!
speaker2: that's pathetic, archer. but then, your terrible sense of humor is legendary.
speaker4: find jamie!

speaker1: ... help adam... don't let him end up like us... 
speaker2: sasha -- !

speaker1: we heard gunshots -- 
speaker2: wanda, i've got to tell you something. something crazy...

speaker1: give up, castor. people are going to find out. 
speaker2: not if i kill you first.
speaker2: give it here, jamie.
speaker1: no, jamie. don't do it!
speaker1: listen to my voice, jamie. i'm your father.
speaker2: it's a trick, jamie. i'm your father.
speaker2: shoot him, jamie.
speaker1: jamie...
speaker2: shoot him!
speaker2: you dunce. no kid of mine would miss so badly.
speaker3: hold it.
speaker2: just saving the taxpayers the cost of a trial. so take a hike.
speaker3: you're both under arrest until a d.n.a. test proves who's who.
speaker2: i'm ordering you to back off!
speaker3: put the gun down --
speaker4: -- now!
speaker2: say goodbye to daddy --
speaker2: you ungrateful delinquent!

speaker1: give me your weapon -- now! 
speaker2: archer and eve make sure jamie's okay.
speaker3: who are you? will someone please tell me what's going on?

speaker1: you won't shoot me, jon. i'm unarmed... 
speaker2: okay, i have a confession to
speaker1: it'll never be over, jon... every time you look in the mirror... you'll see my face...
speaker3: you okay, archer?
speaker2: what did you call me?
speaker4: he called you 'archer' -- sir.

speaker1: how is he? 
speaker2: no life signs at all. he's a turnip.
speaker1: that's what they always say...
speaker3: i'm sorry, eve. you can't come. take her home.
speaker2: but he's my husband!
speaker3: but he works for us.
speaker4: will dad be dad again?
speaker2: i hope so, honey.
speaker4: and you guys say my life is screwed up...

speaker1: hello, eve. 
speaker2: dad?
speaker2: i'm sorry i shot you, dad. am i grounded?
speaker1: i have something to ask you -- to ask both of you...
speaker1: this is adam. he needs a place to live... just for a little while.

speaker1: how was your first day back? 
speaker1: jon?

