speaker1: they're good to go, talley. your word, and we're in the house. 
speaker2: no one's going anywhere, l-t. we can talk this guy down.
speaker3: you!
speaker1: i don't think he wants to talk.
speaker2: where's the guy's wife?
speaker4: she didn't take the kid to her sister's. the neighbors were wrong.
speaker2: goddamnit, you said we had her. i told him we had her!
speaker4: we got bad information, talley. i can't pull her out of my ass!
speaker1: talley! you're in the line of fire!
speaker2: i didn't lie to you, george. you scared your wife pretty good last night. we're having a hard time finding her.
speaker5: she better talk to me! i'm gonna kill her dog!
speaker2: you and i have been talking for, what, sixteen hours? keep talking. is that your dog, too?
speaker3: i don't know whose dog it is. she lied about everything else, so she probably lied about the dog.
speaker2: i know you're hurting. you lose your job, you find out your wife's another guy . . . but don't give up.
speaker3: then why won't she open her mouth?! why doesn't the say something???
speaker2: george? come back to the window.

speaker1: george? leave the dog alone and come to the window. 
speaker1: what's the dog's name?
speaker2: the neighbors say he doesn't have a dog.

speaker1: c'mon, dennis, this is stupid. i thought we were gonna go to the movies. 
speaker2: mars?! whattaya think, dude? out here on the edge, no one around, it's perfect, right?
speaker3: i'll check it out.
speaker2: try to act cool, okay? he's gonna think you're a
speaker1: robbing this place is gonna put you back in prison.
speaker2: not if they don't catch us, kevin.
speaker1: we got jobs, man; we're working. why even take the chance?
speaker2: because if you don't take the chance, you're already dead.
speaker2: thirty seconds, we'll be down the road. thirty seconds. then we'll go to the movies.
speaker3: it's perfect.

speaker1: a pack of marlboros for my friend and all your cash, you gook 
speaker2: he's got a gun!
speaker1: mars, help me --
speaker3: dennis! dennis, someone's coming!

speaker1: there's blood all over you! 
speaker2: i didn't know he would have a gun! it just went off!
speaker2: it's on my face!
speaker3: relax. it's only blood.
speaker2: you, mars! i got it all over me!
speaker2: piece of shit!!!

speaker1: that woman's gonna call the cops. 
speaker2: shut up, goddamnit! just calm down!
speaker1: what if he's dead? what if you killed him?
speaker3: people are looking.
speaker2: that's why we gotta keep going. i'm not gonna go in for murder.
speaker1: we're on foot. we can't get away.
speaker2: we're surrounded by houses, dumbass. every house has a car in the garage. all we have to do is take one.

speaker1: what, you don't have a sense of humor? he's going to love it. 
speaker2: my stomach is eating me!
speaker1: yeah, that's thomas, the human piranha. i have to feed the animals while pam's in florida with her sister.
speaker2: my stomach has teeth! it's eating my guts!
speaker1: listen, is glen on his way? great. the paper's bagged and ready to go. bye. all right, all right, all right--it's feeding time!

speaker1: jen! come feed your brother! he's wasting away! 
speaker2: can't we send him to florida?
speaker1: jen, c'mon, chop-chop! i've got to finish my work!

speaker1: four, base. you there, mike? 
speaker2: four. i'm gonna hit the krispy-kreme.
speaker1: armed robbery, kim's minimart on flanders road, shots fired with a man down.
speaker2: are you kidding me?
speaker1: ah, suspects are three white males driving a red pickup last seen eastbound on flanders.

speaker1: tell daddy that lunch is ready. thomas, don't be a turd. tell --! 
speaker2: i'm not going to hurt you.
speaker2: stop fighting. relax, and i'll let go.
speaker2: that's better. be cool and we'll be outta here in five minutes. understand?
speaker2: who else is here?
speaker1: my father.

speaker1: get your in the chair! sit down! 
speaker2: jen? are you all right?
speaker1: she'll be dead if you don't put your in that chair!
speaker1: kevin! don't stand there, asshole, close the windows! mars, keep him covered, dude!
speaker2: who sent you?
speaker1: don't go rambo and you'll tell'm about this on the back nine. i'm gonna tie you up, then we're gonna take your car.
speaker2: the car. all you want is the car?
speaker1: am i talkin' raghead?! i want your car! gimme the keys!
speaker2: the keys are on the wall by the garage.
speaker3: dennis! the cops!

speaker1: they had to go through the yard at 455 castle way. i'm going to approach. 
speaker2: open it! you remember i'm right here!

speaker1: miss? 
speaker2: i didn't . . . see anyone.
speaker3: he's going for his gun!

speaker1: officer down. i've been shot. 
speaker2: mike? mike, what did you say?!

speaker1: i need to work out some stuff. 
speaker2: you're hiding, jeffrey. you're hiding from the job and you're hiding from me.
speaker1: i still see that boy's eyes.
speaker2: that happened a year ago. you've been gone for almost six months. how long do you have to punish yourself for something that wasn't your fault?
speaker1: is amanda there?
speaker2: it's dad. he wants to speak with you.
speaker3: i'm gonna see him later.
speaker2: she has to go to the bathroom.
speaker2: you're not only punishing yourself, jeff. amanda and i are in this, too.
speaker1: can we talk some more when you get here?
speaker2: we'll see you in a couple of hours.
speaker3: i don't wanna go up there. i want to stay here with my friends.
speaker2: pack your things. you're going.

speaker1: mike's been shot! someone shot junior kim, too -- talley comes around his desk -- 
speaker2: what are you talking about, shot? what happened?
speaker1: three white males shot junior. mike followed them to york estates --
speaker2: where are they?
speaker1: york estates. four-five-five castle way. anders and jorgenson are on the way. talley charges out --

speaker1: welch is down! they shot him! 
speaker2: we think it's the three guys who robbed kim's.
speaker3: are civilians inside?
speaker2: he said something about a girl --
speaker3: holster your guns!
speaker3: mike! mike, can you hear me?
speaker1: i think he's dead!
speaker3: don't shout, larry. i'm three feet away.
speaker3: we have to cordon off the streets, then evacuate these houses.
speaker2: what are we going to do about mike?
speaker3: keep your head down.

speaker1: how you doing, buddy? you still alive? 
speaker1: you hang on.
speaker1: he's in the backseat!
speaker1: this is talley. who's on? his radio crackles with overlapping voices --
speaker1: one at a time! clear the air! louise? talk to me. what do we have?
speaker2: junior kim was doa at the hospital.
speaker3: what about mike? is welch alive? what happened?
speaker1: quiet! i want radio discipline. mike's hanging in. larry, jorgy? listen up.
speaker4: go, chief.
speaker1: find out who lives at four-five-five. we gotta know who's in there.
speaker2: chief? mike said a young girl answered the door.
speaker1: did he say if she was shooting at him?
speaker2: he didn't say.
speaker1: then we don't know if she's part of this or not. mickey, you up?
speaker5: we're out two minutes, me and dreyer.
speaker1: mike found a red pickup abandoned on flanders. you see it?
speaker5: it's right in front of us.
speaker1: run a dmv on the plate for the owner's name.
speaker2: i pulled mickey and dreyer off the minimart.
speaker1: christ, louise, we can't leave a crime scene like that. put a unit out there.
speaker2: we only have eight officers on duty, chief.
speaker1: that's not enough.
speaker6: what's that, chief? say again.
speaker1: get everyone out here. then call the sheriffs. tell them we have a possible hostage situation.

speaker1: we could've gone out the back! you didn't have to shoot! 
speaker2: stop it! they found the truck, kev!
speaker1: we should give up. all we're doing is making it worse.
speaker3: get out of our house! her voice cuts through the din.
speaker4: quiet, jen.
speaker3: why don't they go?! why don't they leave us alone and go?!
speaker2: shut up! shut the up!
speaker4: none of you will get out of this.
speaker2: stay down! stay down, goddamnit!
speaker4: i'm going to my desk.
speaker2: you're not goin' anywhere! get on the floor!
speaker3: daddy, don't!
speaker2: get on the floor!
speaker4: i have contacts in los angeles. lawyers and judges who can help you.
speaker2: i'll kill you!
speaker5: daddy! please!
speaker4: this is every criminal lawyer in california. if you give up now, right now, i'll buy you the best lawyer in the state.
speaker2: we just killed a cop! we killed a fat chinaman! we'll get the death penalty!
speaker2: mars, watch the cops! kevin! watch the back of the house!
speaker4: you won't die if you let me help.
speaker2: 
speaker4: but if you stay in this house, i can promise you this --
speaker2: shut up! shut up and get on the floor!
speaker4: you can't imagine the you're going to get.
speaker3: leave him alone!!

speaker1: the house belongs to walter and pamela smith. they've got two kids, a girl about fifteen and a boy younger, jennifer and thomas. 
speaker2: that would be the girl who opened the door. are the others inside?
speaker1: the mother is in florida visiting her sister. the father works at home, so he's probably inside.
speaker2: louise?
speaker3: go, chief.
speaker2: get a phone number for the smiths.
speaker4: chief, mikkelson.
speaker2: go, mickey.
speaker4: the truck is registered to dennis james rooney, white male, twenty-two. he has an agua dulce address.
speaker2: contact the landlord. i want to know employment, friends, family, anything we can find out about this guy.
speaker5: what in is that?
speaker2: everyone be cool. that's our job right now--stabilize the situation and don't let things get out of hand. all we have to do is hang on until the sheriffs take over. that's all we have to do.
speaker6: how do we do that?
speaker2: that's my job, metzger. that's why i get the big bucks. talley puts away his mike --

speaker1: he's not waking up. he should be awake. 
speaker1: he needs a doctor.
speaker2: shut up and sit down. you think someone's gonna make a house call?
speaker1: at least let me get some ice for his head.
speaker2: make sure kevin isn't off back there.

speaker1: i thought you wanted ice. 
speaker2: i'm getting a wash cloth for the ice.
speaker2: please get away from me.
speaker3: mars? what are you doing?
speaker1: hey.
speaker1: want one?
speaker2: i don't drink beer.
speaker1: mommy won't know. you can do anything you want right now. mommy won't know.
speaker2: what i want is to help my father.

speaker1: my name is jeff talley. is this dennis rooney? 
speaker2: you with the cops?
speaker1: the bristo police department. look out the window. you see the car?
speaker2: yeah. i'm rooney.
speaker1: we had an awful lot of shooting. you need a doctor in there?
speaker2: we're cool.
speaker1: let me speak to mr. smith. i want to hear it from him.
speaker2: you. i'm running this you talk to me.
speaker1: how about your two friends? you don't have a man dying in there, do you?
speaker2: they're fine.
speaker1: all three subjects are confirmed inside. call off the house-to-house. okay, dennis, i want to explain your situation --
speaker2: you don't have to explain that chinaman pulled a gun. we wrestled for it. that chinaman shot himself.
speaker1: mr. kim didn't make it, dennis. he died.
speaker2: how about the cop?
speaker1: dennis? i want you to release those people.
speaker2: that. they're the only thing stopping you from blowing us away.
speaker1: we're not coming in there by force, okay? no one wants to hurt you.
speaker2: i got these people! you try to come get me, i'll kill every one of them!

speaker1: that chinaman is dead! that's murder-one, dude. that's the needle! 
speaker1: get back where you belong, asshole! mars, keep and eye on the cops; i gotta find a way out of here --

speaker1: i have to tell you something -- 
speaker2: we gotta find a way outta here is what we gotta do!
speaker1: it's about mars --
speaker1: that cop didn't pull his gun. mars lied. he just started shooting!
speaker2: why would mars do that?
speaker1: i was there, dennis! i saw! it's like he wanted to shoot that cop.
speaker2: you're being stupid. check out the bathroom. maybe we can sneak out a window --

speaker1: kev. 
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: are you totally stupid? what does it look like?
speaker1: look, that's the master bedroom out here.
speaker2: i can see you!
speaker1: dude, this is solid steel. they gotta be hiding something.
speaker2: dennis --
speaker1: go get mars.

speaker1: one in front is dennis james rooney. 
speaker1: dennis has a younger brother, kevin paul-- that's him entering now, the third guy.
speaker2: has dennis done time?
speaker1: just pulled thirty days for misdemeanor burglary. he shows car theft, shoplifting, and dui.
speaker2: who's this?
speaker3: we don't know.
speaker2: have still prints made from the tape. show the landlord. maybe we can get a fast id.
speaker2: here on his head. is that a tattoo?
speaker1: i can't make it out.
speaker2: says...burn it.
speaker3: what's he doing?
speaker2: he's watching kim die.
speaker4: chief?

speaker1: are men with guns really barricaded in a house? 
speaker2: just around the corner and up that street. see the helicopters?
speaker3: wait by the car, mandy. give me a minute with dad. they wait until amanda is gone, then --
speaker2: i should've called. this thing broke right after we spoke, then everything happened so fast --
speaker3: don't worry about it. how are you doing?
speaker2: the sheriffs will take over when they get here.
speaker3: but they're not here yet. tell me about you.
speaker3: you're shaking.
speaker2: why don't you guys grab some dinner at the thai place? i'll meet you there as soon as i can.
speaker3: you sure?
speaker2: i don't know how long i'll be stuck here.
speaker3: i'm in no rush. maybe later we can talk.
speaker2: jane?
speaker2: i'm scared shitless.
speaker3: that's okay. i love you anyway.

speaker1: hey, you guys know what's going on? 
speaker2: three men took a family hostage.
speaker1: no my client lives in there.
speaker2: it's a family named smith, walter and pamela smith. do you know them?
speaker1: no. no, i don't know them. thanks for your time.
speaker1: we have a problem out here.

speaker1: worst case, it's a bloodbath. the detectives come out with smith's computer, and we go directly to jail, do not pass go. 
speaker2: maybe glen already picked up the disks.
speaker1: i took the call from glen personally. they're still in smith's house.
speaker3: maybe we're getting too dramatic. it's three kids. they'll give up, the cops will arrest them, and that's that. why would they search the house?
speaker2: you think we should take that chance?
speaker3: i guess not.
speaker2: i guess not, too. how much information is in the house?
speaker1: smith was cooking the books for the irs. that means he has it all: the cash flow, where it comes from, how we launder it, our split with the east.
speaker3: it's on two computer disks he calls marlon and al.
speaker2: what, he's cute? that's his idea of humor?
speaker3: if the feds get those disks, the east coast is gonna take a hit, too. you should let them know.
speaker2: no way. i tell them, that old man is gonna handle this from back there.
speaker1: you should warn them, sonny.

speaker1: he knows better than that. 
speaker2: bullshit--a man will do anything to save his family. who's running the show up there?
speaker3: they have a chief of police, a guy named talley. i saw him being interviewed.
speaker3: hey, that's him. that's talley right there!
speaker2: find out how we can hurt him. by the end of the day, i want to own him.
speaker1: it's happening right now.

speaker1: l.a. county sheriffs are inbound from a bank robbery in pico rivera. 
speaker2: give me an eta.
speaker1: an hour, tops. might be sooner.
speaker3: when the sheriffs get here, how many we looking at?
speaker1: a command team, a negotiating team, a tactical team--the tac team includes a perimeter team, the assault team, snipers, and breachers--thirty-five new bodies.
speaker2: how many locals?
speaker4: fourteen officers and two civilians. i have their names and most of their addresses.
speaker2: and talley?
speaker4: married but separated, ex-lapd. the fam doesn't live here, but they're coming up today. i got his address there.
speaker3: the cops i talked to, they said talley was a hostage negotiator in la.
speaker4: his last three years on the job. before that, he was swat.
speaker5: how's a swat negotiator make it up here to this shithole?
speaker4: i make him for a stress release.
speaker2: good work, gayle--everybody. now stay ahead of the curve. i want to know everything that happens before it happens. i'll cover talley.
speaker1: what if it goes south?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: if things get wet, we're going to need someone who can handle that end.
speaker2: you worry about your end. i got my side covered.

speaker1: talley lives here. i don't know if the place has security or not. 
speaker2: it won't be a problem.
speaker1: he has a wife and kid. that's how we'll get to him.
speaker2: okey-doke.
speaker1: we have to own this guy, marion. we don't want him dead; we need to use him.
speaker2: can we make him dead after we use him?
speaker1: whatever you want. page me when you're done.
speaker1: donuts here any good?
speaker2: i don't eat junk food.

speaker1: pacbell shows six lines into the house. 
speaker2: i have the only number that can call into the house?
speaker1: yes, sir. they'll only accept calls from your cell.
speaker2: way to go.
speaker3: chief, this is brad dill. dennis and kevin work for him.
speaker4: i didn't know anything about this. i didn't know what they were gonna do.
speaker2: mr. dill, these pricks didn't know what they were going to do until they did it. i want you to take a look at something.
speaker2: can you identify this man?
speaker4: that would be mars krupchek. he works for me, too.
speaker2: have louise run the name 'mars krupchek' through dmv and ncic. tell her to list the tattoo as an identifier.
speaker2: is krupchek an aggressive guy? hot- tempered? anything like that?
speaker4: keeps to himself, more like.
speaker2: you have his address?
speaker4: pretty sure i do. yeah, here we go --
speaker2: call the palmdale city attorney for a telephonic search warrant. when you get the warrant, have mikkelson and dreyer search his house.
speaker3: yes, sir.
speaker1: chief! the sheriffs are ten minutes out!
speaker2: louise?
speaker5: go, chief.
speaker2: call jane for me. she's at the little thai place.
speaker5: i know the one.
speaker2: tell her i'm almost home.

speaker1: there's gotta be a million bucks here. maybe two million! 
speaker2: it's a safety room. if anyone breaks into your house, you can hide.
speaker1: who gives a mars? check out the cash! we're rich.
speaker2: we're trapped in a house.

speaker1: we can take it with us. 
speaker2: you can't run with suitcases. dennis grabs mars by the arm, stopping him --
speaker1: then we'll stuff it up our asses. this is the payoff. this is every dream you ever had, all in those two bags.

speaker1: -- thought to be dennis james rooney. rooney was recently released from the antelope valley correctional institute where he served time for robbery. dennis spots himself on television and breaks into a big smile -- 
speaker2: check me out! i look like jon bon jovi.
speaker3: everyone knows what we look like, dennis. we won't be able to hide.
speaker2: first mars, now you. you two need anti-depressants.
speaker4: my father needs a doctor. please.
speaker2: hey, i've got a situation here, in case you haven't noticed.
speaker4: all you're doing is watching yourself on tv. look at him.
speaker2: use more ice.
speaker4: i'm getting a doctor!
speaker5: jen!!!
speaker3: stop it! stop it, dennis!
speaker2: that's right. that's a good idea, mars.
speaker6: find something: extension cords, rope, wire--we'll have to tie them tight.
speaker2: find something, kevin. don't just stand there. and tie this bastard, too. i don't want him waking up and goin' rambo on us.

speaker1: tie her to the chair. i'll take care of the windows when i finish with the boy. 
speaker2: here. put this on.
speaker2: you gotta pee?
speaker3: i don't see why you can't just lock me in. it's not like i can go anywhere.
speaker2: either i'm going to tie you or mars will tie you. which do you want?
speaker3: thanks for the shirt.
speaker2: whatever.
speaker3: kevin, my father needs a doctor.

speaker1: he's just knocked out. i've been knocked out. 
speaker2: if my father dies they'll charge you with his murder. can't you make dennis see that?
speaker1: i can't make dennis see anything.
speaker3: look what i found.
speaker3: you tied her like a pussy. make it tight.
speaker3: better.
speaker1: make sure she can breathe.
speaker3: go downstairs, kevin.
speaker3: i want to show you something.
speaker3: it cost two hundred forty dollars, but i was happy to spend it. i love my mom. you see these?
speaker3: my mom burned me with cigarettes.

speaker1: sit still! if they're in the security room, they can see you on the monitors. 
speaker1: i figured out what these cameras can see last year when mom and dad went to lake arrowhead. it can't see me over here, but it's looking at you, so don't move!
speaker2: ow!
speaker1: be quiet! listen!
speaker2: no one's coming.
speaker1: that big nailed my windows.
speaker2: mine, too.
speaker1: we can use the crawlspace to get downstairs. then we can run for it.
speaker2: no! i'm not going to leave daddy with them!
speaker1: we can't carry him.
speaker2: you go, thomas. you get out, and i'll stay with daddy.
speaker1: i'm not gonna leave you!
speaker2: go! if you get out, maybe you can help the police! thomas suddenly realizes what he has to do --
speaker1: we'll all go, jennifer. all of us or none of us. i know where daddy keeps a gun.
speaker2: you leave that gun alone!
speaker1: shh, they'll hear you!

speaker1: i'm talley. who's in charge? 
speaker2: laura martin. this is will maddox, the primary negotiator --
speaker3: is the perimeter around the house secure?
speaker1: i've got fourteen officers on my department including me. we're as secure as we can be.
speaker3: permission to deploy the line?
speaker2: do it.
speaker2: sounds like you know the job.
speaker1: i've done it once or twice. i blocked their phones to incoming calls, so you'll have to cut in a hard line to talk to him.
speaker2: maddox! you got that?
speaker3: doing it now!
speaker2: i'd like you to brief my supervisors before we take over the scene.
speaker1: whatever you want.

speaker1: someone should stay with mr. smith. what if he wakes up? 
speaker2: these bushes follow the wall into the neighbor's yard. all we need is some kind of diversion and we're home free.
speaker1: that's crazy, dennis. the cops will see us.
speaker2: not if they're looking at something else.
speaker1: like what?
speaker3: let's burn the house.

speaker1: we can't carry all this. it's too heavy. 
speaker2: i've been carrying you our whole lives.
speaker1: everything we're doing is making it worse. you can't let him burn this house.
speaker2: nothing's worse than listening to you. i'm warning you, kevin--stop holding me back. now you pick up that money and get ready to go.

speaker1: the cops are comin'! 
speaker2: i got the gasoline --
speaker1: we don't have time!
speaker1: get the kids! they're our only chance! dennis fires again and runs for the stairs --

speaker1: who's that shooting? martin, what's going on? 
speaker2: shots fired! we are taking fire on the back wall!
speaker1: they're too close! i told you not to crowd him! pull back your people; do not breach that house!

speaker1: this thing good? 
speaker2: what in are you doing? he's shooting at my men!
speaker1: then get your men off the wall! you breach that house, we're gonna have a bloodbath! i know this guy, captain -- i can talk to him.
speaker1: look out the window, dennis. we are not entering the house. we're pulling back.

speaker1: you i got a gun to this kid's head! i'll kill'm, you 
speaker2: it's over now, dennis! don't hurt anyone.
speaker2: no one's coming in. a couple of guys out here got carried away.
speaker1: right they got carried away. it looks like an army out there.
speaker2: it's over. he's cooling off.
speaker1: talley?
speaker2: i'm here.
speaker1: i want a helicopter to take us to mexico.
speaker2: that's not going to happen, dennis. they won't give you a helicopter.
speaker1: i'll give you these people.
speaker2: the mexican police would arrest you as soon as it landed. there's only one way out and you're doing it right now--just keep talking to us. i think we could make the transition now. maddox, you good to go?
speaker2: hey, dennis? can i let you in on a personal secret?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i gotta real bad.
speaker1: you're a funny guy, talley.
speaker2: i'm going to put on an officer named will maddox. you talk to him for a while.
speaker2: he says he has gasoline set to burn the place.
speaker3: he must've siphoned it from the cars.
speaker2: if you go in, you can't use tear gas or flashbangs. the whole place would go up.
speaker3: looks like you're bailing out at the right time.
speaker2: that's why you get the big bucks, captain.
speaker4: chief, base.
speaker2: go.
speaker4: i couldn't find jane. she wasn't at the restaurant.
speaker2: you have her cell number?
speaker4: she didn't answer.
speaker2: they might be at the house. keep trying and let me know. i'm going to be here a little while longer. talley closes his phone and continues away --

speaker1: we're surrounded. they're all over the neighborhood. 
speaker2: what the is that?
speaker3: they'll cut the power.
speaker4: what about my father?
speaker2: aw, not more of this.
speaker4: look at him! i think he's dying!

speaker1: chief, base. 
speaker2: did you find jane and mandy?
speaker1: could you call me back on your phone?
speaker2: what's wrong with the radio?
speaker1: other people can hear us. just call.
speaker2: stand by.
speaker2: is something wrong with jane?
speaker3: we have a boy on the line. he says he's thomas smith and he's calling from the house.
speaker2: it's a crank, louise. c'mon, don't waste my time with that!
speaker3: his cell number belongs to the smiths. i think it's real, chief. i think this boy is inside that house. talley worries it only for a moment --
speaker2: put him on.
speaker2: get martin. right away.
speaker2: this is chief talley. tell me your name, son.
speaker4: thomas smith. i'm in the house that's on tv. dennis hit my dad and now he won't wake up. you gotta help him.
speaker2: slow down, thomas. take it easy and talk to me. was your father shot?
speaker4: dennis hit him. his head's all big and he won't wake up. i'm really scared.
speaker2: how about you and your sister?
speaker4: we're okay.
speaker2: where are you right now?
speaker4: in my room.
speaker2: that's on the second floor. could you climb out your window if we were downstairs to catch you?
speaker4: they nailed the windows. i can't get'm open.
speaker2: i've got the boy on the phone. he's using a cell phone. what was that, son? i didn't hear you.
speaker4: if i try to climb out they'll see me on the security cameras. they would see you outside, too -- thomas hears someone outside his door --
speaker4: they're coming!
speaker2: thomas? thomas...?
speaker2: he says that his father's hurt.
speaker5: if we have a man dying in there, we'll have to go in.
speaker2: they have security cameras. rooney would see you coming.
speaker5: did the boy say that any of them are in immediate danger?
speaker2: no. he said that his father's unconscious; he didn't say he was dying.
speaker5: then i think we should wait. do you agree?
speaker2: you want me to stick around, i could --
speaker5: you've been here all day, chief. take a break. see your family. if i need you, i'll call.

speaker1: take it easy. 
speaker2: where's your gun?
speaker1: i'm the chief. i don't carry it.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker2: follow the mustang. we won't go far.

speaker1: i know you're scared, but unless you do something stupid we're not going to hurt you. you understand? 
speaker1: don't just sit there, dumbass. do you understand?
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: these guys are going to take hold of you. don't freak out. it's for your own good.
speaker2: what is this?
speaker1: say hello.
speaker3: jeff? is that you?
speaker1: i know, i know--she's all right. your kid's all right, too. c'mon, now, relax. from this point on, you control what happens to them.
speaker1: can we let go? you past your shock and all that, we can turn you loose and you won't do something stupid?
speaker2: you can let go.
speaker1: here's the deal--walter smith has two computer disks like this in his house. they're labeled 'marlon' and 'al.'
speaker2: marlon and al....
speaker1: we want them. you will not let anyone go into that house--or anything come out-- until my people recover these disks.
speaker2: i can't control what happens. the sheriffs are running the scene.
speaker1: you will re-assume command. in two hours, a group of my people will arrive at york estates. you will tell the sheriffs that they are an fbi tactical team.
speaker1: when this phone rings, you answer. it will be me. i'll tell you what to do. when i have what i want, you get your family.
speaker2: you want . . . marlon and al.
speaker1: i have people in york estates right under your nose. if you do anything except what i'm telling you, you'll get jane and amanda back in the mail. we clear on that?
speaker2: these disks . . . where are they?
speaker1: smith will know.
speaker1: when it rings, answer.

speaker1: what's up, chief? 
speaker1: did i do something wrong?
speaker2: i want you to run this license plate and phone number. then i want you to find out everything you can about walter smith.
speaker1: the guy in the house?
speaker2: go back to the office. run his name through the fbi and the nlets database. i think he's involved with illegal activity or he associates with people who are.
speaker1: wow. sure, right away, chief.
speaker2: don't tell anyone what you're doing, not louise, not the other guys, not the sheriffs. you understand me, larry?

speaker1: i guess so. 
speaker2: guessing. you keep your mouth shut.
speaker1: i will, chief. absolutely.
speaker2: get to work.

speaker1: i'm re-assuming command of the scene. 
speaker1: martin is surprised and angry --
speaker2: excuse me? you requested our help. you turned over command --
speaker1: and now i'm taking it back. we're getting smith out of the house.

speaker1: thomas? 
speaker1: thomas, is that you?
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: we can't make the microwave work.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: we're hungry. you're going to cook.

speaker1: make the pizza. i want scrambled eggs and hot dogs on mine. 
speaker2: how about dog
speaker1: with hot sauce and butter.
speaker2: i need a frying pan. would you get one? over there, under the range.
speaker3: what put a wild hair up your ass?
speaker4: i changed my mind. that's all you need to know.
speaker5: that you, talley?
speaker4: the one and only. we got a little problem out here, dennis.
speaker5: you oughta try on the problem i got in here.
speaker4: i need you to let me talk to mr. smith.
speaker5: we been through that. forget it.
speaker4: we can't forget it. the sheriffs think you won't let me talk to smith because he's dead. they think you murdered him.
speaker3: what in are you doing?!
speaker5: that's the guy's right here!
speaker4: if you don't let me talk to him, they're going to attack the house.
speaker3: you're gonna set him off, goddamnit!
speaker5: they better not!
speaker4: help me keep them out! let me speak to smith, dennis. let me speak to him right now.

speaker1: talk to me, dennis. help me help you. why can't you put smith on the phone? 
speaker1: now i understand. that helps. i can make them understand that.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: let me come get him.
speaker2: that! you will jump me!
speaker1: if you won't let me come in, then put him outside.
speaker2: you'll cap my as soon as i step out the door!
speaker1: you've already helped yourself once, dennis; be smart again. if you save his life, it'll help when you get to court.
speaker2: you, talley, you! you and one other guy, but that's it! i want you stripped! i gotta know you don't have guns! dennis slams down the phone --
speaker1: bring up the ambulance.

speaker1: easy.... 
speaker1: let's do it.
speaker1: how's he look?
speaker2: he's got a concussion for sure. i'm going to brace him.
speaker2: let's get him on the stretcher.
speaker2: i'll support his head and shoulders. you lift his hips and knees. on three. three.

speaker1: you ready to tell me what's going on? 
speaker2: no.

speaker1: i'm the chief of police here. i have to talk to him. 
speaker2: ain't gonna happen. we've got unequal pupilation. he could have an intracranial hematoma or a fracture or both.
speaker1: smith! wake up!
speaker2: what are you doing?! stop that!
speaker2: this man needs a hospital! stop it!
speaker1: use smelling salts, give him a shot, whatever. i just need a minute.
speaker1: stop the engine!
speaker2: i'm not going to wake him. i don't even know that i can.
speaker1: just one question. please.
speaker2: he. can't. answer.

speaker1: i want you waiting in smith's lap. i want to know the second--and i mean the second--that he wakes up. 
speaker1: talley.
speaker2: it's me, chief. can you talk?
speaker1: what'd you find out?
speaker2: the cell phone is registered to a jewelry store in beverly hills. the phone company shows no unusual --
speaker1: dead end--it's a clone. what about the mustang?
speaker2: it was stolen.
speaker1: you get anything on smith?
speaker2: chief...it's like none of this exists.
speaker1: keep trying.
speaker3: i'll be safe when i'm outta here, you asshole! i'm not talking any more!

speaker1: was smith talking? 
speaker2: i heard he's up. they're taking him to the hospital.
speaker1: goddamnit, tell me what you know. did the cops go in? did smith have the disks?
speaker2: i don't know. talley talked those punks into letting smith out. he's us over, glen. that guy is us over.
speaker1: what hospital?
speaker2: canyon country.
speaker1: i have another job for you.

speaker1: put him on. 
speaker2: is my daddy okay?
speaker1: the doctors are taking care of him right now. thomas . . . are you safe? can you talk?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: i need your help with something. but if you think those guys could catch you, then i don't want you to do it, okay?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'm serious, thomas; i don't want you to get hurt.
speaker2: what do you want me to do?
speaker1: your dad has two computer disks. they have funny names: marlon and al.
speaker2: he has lots of disks.
speaker1: i think he was working on them today, so they're probably in his office. could you find them and see who they belong to?
speaker2: dennis won't let me go to the desk. he makes me sit on the floor.
speaker2: but i might be able to sneak into the office if they're not around. then i could open the disks here in my room.
speaker1: i thought they locked you in your room.
speaker2: i can get into the crawlspace from my closet and climb all over the house.
speaker1: can you get into the office?
speaker2: i can get into the den. the office is right across the hall.
speaker1: if i get rooney into the back of the house, can you find the disks without being caught?
speaker2: yes, sir.

speaker1: i want to know what in you're doing. 
speaker2: i'm looking for you. i need your tactical unit.
speaker1: i'm not stupid! you can't get out of here fast enough, then you take back command; you agree to wait on smith, then you risk everything in a stupid stunt to get him out --
speaker2: don't question me, captain! this is my crime scene!
speaker1: maddox! let's give the man a hand!

speaker1: keep the change, m'man. 
speaker2: we're
speaker1: we're until we think of a way out; then we're rich.
speaker2: there is no way out.
speaker1: for chrissake, please! help me celebrate! i figured it out!
speaker2: celebrate what? going to prison?
speaker1: no, dumbass--talley. talley's the guy who keeps us in here, and talley's the guy who can let us out.
speaker1: cops want to be rich like everyone else. all we have to do is share. and if he wants someone to swing for the chinaman, we'll give'm mars.
speaker3: dennis.
speaker3: the food's ready.

speaker1: okay, bud, here we go. 
speaker1: captain? kill the lights.

speaker1: it's time to talk face-to-face, dennis. 
speaker2: what's he doing? what's going on?!
speaker3: mars! they're trying to blindside us! check the front!

speaker1: what's going on out front? 
speaker1: mars?! what the are they doin'?
speaker1: mars! something's happening! get back here! the feet hesitate, then, finally, walk away --

speaker1: come on, dennis. talk to me. 
speaker1: i'm unarmed. i'm looking at you. get out here and let's talk.
speaker2: you got a sniper out there, gonna shoot me?
speaker1: only if you try to grab me. we could've shot you from the wall.
speaker1: you've been in there a long time.
speaker2: would you be in a hurry to go to prison for the rest of your life?
speaker1: i'd be trying to get the best deal that i could.
speaker2: maybe that's what i'm doing. can i reach in my pocket, show you something?
speaker2: that's fifty hundred-dollar bills. five grand. they got money in this house, talley, more than you've ever seen. dennis pushes the money back into his pocket.
speaker2: how much would it be worth to you, getting me out of here?
speaker1: you picked a bad house to hole up in, son.
speaker2: two hundred thousand cash, right in your pocket, no one needs to know.
speaker1: give up.
speaker2: there's a million dollars in there, maybe two million. i'll give you half.

speaker1: the man you sent to the hospital is a criminal. he has partners. this is their house and their money and they want it back. 
speaker2: it ain't been a good day, chief.
speaker1: give up, dennis. let these people go. at least you'll have your life.

speaker1: i got'm! 
speaker2: can you open them?
speaker1: i opened marlon. i think it's somebody's taxes.
speaker2: look for names. does it say whose taxes they are?
speaker1: i don't see any people names. it's all businesses.
speaker2: try al. see if you can open al.
speaker1: yeah! here's a name. this is somebody's personal tax --
speaker2: who is it?
speaker1: charles g. benza. they're coming!
speaker2: sonny benza. oh,
speaker2: leigh? metzger, answer me!
speaker3: i'm at the hospital.
speaker2: put a guard on smith! i want you with smith until i get there!
speaker4: what's going on?
speaker2: get in the car. now.

speaker1: i'm posting a guard outside his room, but we'll need help from hospital security. 
speaker2: is my staff in danger?
speaker1: not with my officers here, no, ma'am.
speaker3: hey! he's waking up!

speaker1: where am i? 
speaker2: canyon country hospital. do you remember your name? it takes walter a few moments to answer --
speaker1: walter smith.
speaker1: where are my children?
speaker3: they're still in the house.
speaker3: i'm jeff talley, the bristo chief of police. so far as we know, your children are okay.
speaker2: chief talley is the one who got you out.
speaker3: sonny benza has my wife and daughter. he wants the disks, marlon and al. he took my family to make me help.
speaker1: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker3: he's going to kill you. don't you know that? he can't take the chance that you'll talk.
speaker2: that's enough.
speaker3: another minute. please --

speaker1: you fuckwad cop, you up bad! 
speaker2: do you think i'm going to let you murder someone?!
speaker1: you want a blowtorch on your daughter's pretty face?!
speaker2: i'll go in that house right now! i'll give those disks to the real fbi, you cocksuckingmotherfucker!! and i've got smith! i've got smith!!
speaker1: i guess we each have something the other wants.
speaker2: i guess we do.
speaker1: my people are good to go. you know who i mean?
speaker2: your phony fbi assholes.
speaker1: we're almost home, you and me. keep your together. this isn't l.a.
speaker2: what do you mean by that?
speaker1: you don't want another dead child on your conscience. the line goes dead --

speaker1: i shouldn't have told him about the money. now talley is gonna keep it for himself. 
speaker2: he said that?
speaker1: if we don't escape, we gotta get the word out about the cash. that's how we'll stay alive.
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: the only way he can keep the cash is if nobody knows about it. he's gotta cap all three of us before they even read our rights. he's probably planning it right now.
speaker2: that's crazy. he's not going to kill us.
speaker1: kevin, you're so stupid...
speaker2: it's over. we have to give up.
speaker1: it's over. that money's mine.
speaker2: that money's up your brain. talley's going to get tired of waiting for us to give up, and we'll all be killed!
speaker1: then we might as well die rich.
speaker2: i'm not going to die for this!
speaker1: you're my anchor, kevin, the lead around my life that i've been draggin' like a cripple leg!
speaker1: get this into your stupid head, kevin. we're not leaving without the money.
speaker1: you got something to say?
speaker3: i like it here, dennis. i'm never going to leave.
speaker1: a.

speaker1: what do you want? 
speaker2: keep your voice down. i'm taking you and your brother out of here.
speaker1: what happened?
speaker2: do you want to go or not? i'm offering you a way out of here.
speaker1: i can't go without thomas.
speaker2: all three of us will go, but we have to move fast. mars and dennis don't know i'm doing this.
speaker1: how can we get out?
speaker2: dennis and mars are in the den. i'll get your brother, then come back for you. we'll go down the stairs and out the front door, you understand?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: put on some shoes.

speaker1: you scared the out of me. i was looking for you. dennis wants you to watch the monitors. 
speaker2: i heard you with the girl.
speaker1: it's over, mars. if we stay the cops will kill us. don't you get that?
speaker2: i get it. if you want to go, go.

speaker1: come fbi guys showed up, chief. they said you were expecting them. 
speaker2: they here now?
speaker1: you'll see'm up the street.

speaker1: you talley? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: let me see some id. something with a picture. i don't give a about your badge.
speaker3: okay, here's mine. my name is special agent jones.
speaker2: are all of you named jones?
speaker3: don't be funny, chief. you can't afford it.
speaker3: in a few minutes the white phone is going to ring. so let's get our straight before that happens.
speaker2: you used to be a cop. all of you used to be cops. i can tell by the way you move.
speaker3: don't worry about what we used to be.
speaker2: how do you people expect this to work? the sheriffs have a crisis response team here.
speaker3: what's my name?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: i asked you my name. you just saw my commission slip. what's my name?
speaker2: special agent jones.
speaker3: think of me that way and you won't up. i'll handle the sheriffs.
speaker2: what are you people going to do?
speaker3: you and i are gonna straighten this out with the sheriffs, and then we'll wait for the man to call. when he gives the word, we move.
speaker2: what does he have on you? i know why i'm doing this, but what does he have on you?
speaker3: let's go, chief. time to get real.

speaker1: krupchek lives in a shithole. 
speaker2: i guess we could jimmy it.
speaker1: i don't want to pay for breaking it.
speaker2: christ, that stinks.

speaker1: mickey? look at this 
speaker1: he's burned them.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: he burned their noses.
speaker2: okay, this is creeping me out.
speaker1: what are those, rats?
speaker2: ohmigod. we gotta call talley.

speaker1: walter smith is in the federal witness protection program. when washington learned about the situation here, they asked chief talley for his cooperation. 
speaker2: this is i should've been notified.
speaker1: i'm sure you will be, captain, but it's after midnight. now, if you'll pull your people off the perimeter, i want to get my people in position.
speaker3: let it go, captain.
speaker2: small town
speaker3: it's mine. talley.
speaker4: chief, it's mikkelson.
speaker3: go, mickey.

speaker1: chief, we just found krupchek's trailer. we just went in there. 
speaker1: he has human body parts in his refrigerator. he has five human heads.

speaker1: mickey? call the state homicide bureau. don't touch anything, just sit back and wait. 
speaker2: yes, sir.
speaker1: we're getting those kids out of there.

speaker1: c'mon, kev, don't pout! you're right. it's time to call it a game. 
speaker2: kevin left. he didn't want to be here anymore.
speaker1: you mean he left, as in went out the front door?
speaker3: i overheard him with the girl.
speaker1: that even when i want to turn myself in he screws it up! did he take the kids with him?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker1: get upstairs and find out! if he took those kids, we're
speaker1: kevin!!! you asshole!!!

speaker1: kevin left without you. 
speaker2: i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: don't do that. turn on the lights.
speaker2: you'd better get out of here! kevin's coming back!
speaker1: kevin's gone, your daddy's gone, everybody's gone.
speaker1: now we can do whatever we want.
speaker2: stop it.
speaker1: you're going to enjoy this.

speaker1: who's that? goddamnit, who's there? 
speaker1: kev? is that you? talley?
speaker1: kevin, if that's you, say something. mars said you left.

speaker1: you're dead, you 
speaker2: what's wrong, dennis? why're you so off?
speaker3: please...
speaker1: this killed kevin. there's blood everywhere down there -- jennifer sobs. and when she does --

speaker1: c'mon, jen! run! 
speaker1: i'll shoot you!
speaker2: keep going!
speaker3: everyone's gone. we can do whatever we want. we can do anything.
speaker1: i'll shoot you! i'm not kidding, you better stay away! mars keeps coming -- thomas pulls the trigger. click. mars stops, frozen by the sharp sound -- thomas pulls again. click click click -- no bullets.
speaker2: run!!!!!

speaker1: he can't reach us in here. we're safe. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: what's he doing?
speaker1: ohmigod, he's going to burn us!

speaker1: we've got to get those kids out of there! 
speaker2: not until the man calls.
speaker1: those kids are in there with a psychopath! he kills people!
speaker2: they've been in there all day.
speaker1: talley.
speaker3: mars killed kevin and dennis! we're in the security room. he's burning the house --
speaker1: you do what you have to do; i'm getting those kids.
speaker2: talley! we'll secure the house, but then we get the disks.

speaker1: the kids are in here! 
speaker2: where's the office?
speaker1: help me, goddamnit, we can get the disks later!
speaker2: we don't need you any more, chief. we can get the disks on our own.
speaker1: thomas! thomas, it's me!
speaker1: stay close. we're going to move fast --

speaker1: are the disks still in your room? 
speaker2: no! they're right here --

speaker1: smith. 
speaker2: daddy!
speaker3: thank are you guys all right?
speaker4: our house is on fire! we almost burned!
speaker3: you guys step out for a second. i have to talk to the chief.
speaker3: did you find the disks?
speaker1: yes.
speaker3: then you have everything. you can put them away.
speaker1: a man has my family. gold watch here.
speaker3: that would be glen howell. he was on his way for the disks.
speaker1: how do i reach him?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: two words: glen howell.
speaker3: how did you get this number?
speaker2: mr. jones is dead. so are two of his men. the other three are in jail. i have the disks. i have walter smith. and you know what, you i have you.
speaker3: i have your family. don't forget that.
speaker2: i also have a couple of million in cash. call sonny benza. ask if i can keep it.
speaker3: what do you want?
speaker2: my wife and my daughter and the money. i'll bring the disks to the mall by the freeway, you bring my family. we'll trade.
speaker3: that! you think i'm crazy?!
speaker2: i think you got no choice.
speaker3: the mall. you know that motel on the road west of town?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: you got ten minutes. if you're one minute late, we won't be here to find.

speaker1: the house is in flames, benza's accountant is with the cops, and they're stacking the bodies like cordwood. 
speaker2: christ, it's a clusterfuck.
speaker1: you wanted to let sonny handle it. i would've moved in when we first found out.
speaker2: and by doing so, he would've known we have spies in his organization.
speaker1: yes, sir. but what about the disks? if the cops end up with the disks, we're gonna see a whole lot of heat.
speaker2: i hate that mickey mouse bastard. i hated his father, and i hate sonny, too.
speaker1: what do you want to do?
speaker2: our people out there, they good people?
speaker1: the best.
speaker2: sonny's a fuckup. if he pulls this off, fine--life goes on. but if the cops end up with those disks, we cut our losses.
speaker1: i understand.
speaker2: i want a message sent: no fuckups allowed.
speaker1: i'll make the call.

speaker1: you see anything? 
speaker2: not yet.

speaker1: police! 
speaker2: don't shoot! don't shoot him!
speaker1: where's my family?! where's my family, you
speaker2: take it easy. just take it easy. we're here to do business.
speaker1: you said they would be here, goddamnit! where are they?
speaker2: they're close. let me make a call. you can see they're okay.
speaker1: you said they would be here!
speaker2: put on the woman.
speaker1: jane?
speaker3: jeff, we're -- howell backs away with the phone --
speaker2: you have the disks?
speaker1: you get the other one when i have my girls. not talk to them; have them.
speaker2: where is it?
speaker1: close.
speaker2: i have to see if it's real.
speaker2: all right. now the second one.
speaker1: first my girls. i get my girls, you get the other disk.
speaker2: aim your gun at the woman's head. if he doesn't give me the disk, kill her. marion presses a gun to jane's temple -- talley jerks his gun toward howell --
speaker1: i'll kill you! you won't get the other disk!
speaker2: if you shoot me, he'll kill your daughter. do you want to lose both of them?
speaker2: the negotiation is over, talley. i won. now give me the disk or he'll put her brain on the glass.
speaker1: i love you. he's saying good-bye.
speaker1: i gave the other one to the sheriffs and they're giving it to the real fbi. this one's a fake.
speaker2: you'd better be kidding.
speaker1: i'm a cop, you asshole! what did you expect me to do? pretend all this never happened?
speaker1: benza's over. you're over. i just want to take my family home.
speaker2: are you out of your mind?
speaker4: you up, glen.
speaker2: kill them.
speaker4: no fuckups allowed.
speaker4: it's like a storm, isn't it? this raging force that you can't control does whatever it wants, and the best you can do is survive. a winner survives.
speaker1: why...?
speaker4: what good would it do to kill you? the police already have the disk.
speaker4: your wife is a very nice lady.

