STEVEN: horrible. the cable guy is missing in action. apparently he's going to be here sometime between eight am and my death. 
RICK: you haven't called robin have you?
STEVEN: no, i'm giving her space. i can't believe she's doing this.
RICK: you never should have asked her to marry you. you're the mad smotherer.
STEVEN: all she had to do was say no. she didn't have to kick me out. i feel like felix unger.
RICK: you forced her to evaluate the relationship. if you didn't propose she would never have realized how unhappy she was.
STEVE: i don't want to talk about it.
RICK: i can't. i'm working double shifts the rest of the week.
STEVEN: it's my first night here. don't do this to me.
RICK: the other camera guy pulled out his back. besides, i spent the last two weeks with you on my couch. isn't that enough?
STEVEN: fine, fine.
RICK: one piece of advice. slip the cable guy fifty bucks, he'll give you all the movie channels for free. even the dirty ones.
STEVEN: i couldn't. i'm not good at that stuff. what if he says no? i'll feel like an
RICK: none of them say no, believe me. i'll talk to you later.

ROBIN: hi, this is robin. leave a message. if you are trying to reach steven he can now be reached at 555-3837. 
10	INT. STEVEN'S APARTMENT - SUNSET: steven does sit ups. he looks at the clock.

STEVEN: don't leave! i'm here! i'm here! 
12	INT. STEVEN'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS: steven runs to the door.
CABLE GUY: hello! cable guy!
P.O.V. THROUGH THE PEEPHOLE: the cable guy is walking away.

STEVEN: hey, wait! 
CABLE GUY: well, look who decided to show up. i was just gonna go collect my retirement pension.
STEVEN: you were supposed to be here four hours ago.
CABLE GUY: was i? so i'm the tardy one. good to know.
STEVEN: yes. i had to go to the bed 'n bath place, but now it's closed.
CABLE GUY: maybe i shouldn't have come at all â– jerk off! i'm just joking. let's do this. oh, the old mcnair place. i never thought they'd get the floors clean after what happened here.
STEVEN: what happened?
CABLE GUY: they had a lot of cats.
CABLE GUY: hey, this could be a cool pad. here is a comment card.
CABLE GUY: please mail it in when i am done.
STEVEN: these go to your boss?
CABLE GUY: no, they go to me. i'm a perfectioniss perfectioniss perfectioniss t. now let's take a look at what we're dealing with.
CABLE GUY: come on baby. come on baby. talk to me baby. tell me where you like it. that's it baby.
CABLE GUY: here's your sweet spot.
CABLE GUY: so your lady kicked you out.
STEVEN: what?
CABLE GUY: in preparing your service i noticed you were previously wired across town at 1268 and a half chestnut. last week the billing was transferred to one robin harris. smells like heartbreak to me.
STEVEN: i really don't want to talk about it with you. could you please just install my cable? i'm going to get dressed.
CABLE GUY: no sweat.
CABLE GUY: hey, i'm going to go to the hallway so i can access the floorboards. don't be spooked if you hear someone crawling underneath you.
STEVEN: okay, whatever.
CABLE GUY: put on your bathing suit 'cause you'll be channel surfing in no time.

RIKKI KLIEMAN: so ends day fifty-four of the trial of former child star sam sweet who has been accused of shooting his twin brother, stan, in cold blood. the twins were stars of the hit sitcom "double trouble" which aired from nineteen seventy-seven till nineteen eighty-four. 
RIKKI KLIEMAN: life wasn't so sweet after the cancellation of their program. hollywood chewed them up and spit them out. a frustrated sam turned to petty larceny, while his more impressionable brother, stan, fell in with a fringe cult called "the brotherhood of friends." reduced to tabloid fodder a fury was growing inside of sam. a burning need to be recognized as an individual, not a person famous for having an identical twin. a need that took the form of four shotgun blasts on the night of november fourteenth. and so today his attorneys continue the unusual defense of "twin envy."

STEVEN: how's it going? 
CABLE GUY: guilty, guilty, guilt-freakin-tee. i hope they fry this bastard.
STEVEN: what happened?
CABLE GUY: the arrangement of your major appliances and your furniture was causing some noisy pics and hum bars in your reception. i moved a few things. cleared it right up.
STEVEN: i guess so.
CABLE GUY: you programmed? then let me slave your remotes.
CABLE GUY: ooh, maybe we should leave these two alone.
STEVEN: so after this i'll only need one remote for everything?
CABLE GUY: you know you're pretty good at this. you could be a cable guy yourself. now let me check your levels.
CABLE GUY: all right. that about does it. i just have some paperwork for you to fill out. sign here.
CABLE GUY: that gave me power of attorney over you. joking.
CABLE GUY: i'm about finished here. okay. i feel good about this.
STEVEN: one thing.
CABLE GUY: yeah!
STEVEN: i uh i have this friend and he said he gave his cable guy fifty bucks and he got free movie channels. have you ever heard of anything like that?
CABLE GUY: you mean illegal cable?
STEVEN: uh yes.
CABLE GUY: who told you that? i want his name.
STEVEN: forget it.
CABLE GUY: you're offering me a bribe? what you have just done is illegal, and in this state if convicted, you could be fined five-thousand dollars or spend six months in a correctional facility.
STEVEN: please that was dumb. i was just making conversation â–
CABLE GUY: i'm just jerking your chain. wake up little snoozy. i'll juice you up. all it is is a push of a button.
STEVEN: oh, great. how much?
CABLE GUY: don't worry about it. i couldn't charge you. your girl just booted you. consider it one guy doing another guy a solid.
STEVEN: that is so nice.
CABLE GUY: hey, you're a 'nice' guy. you'd be surprised how many customers treat you like like i'm a plumber or something. here is my personal beeper number. it's just for my preferred customers. never call the company, they'll just put you on hold.
STEVEN: thanks. really. you're gonna get some good marks here.
CABLE GUY: maybe some day i'll take you out to the satellite and show you how all this stuff works. it's really incredible.
STEVEN: sure. we should do that one day.
CABLE GUY: how 'bout tomorrow?
STEVEN: tomorrow? tomorrow's not good.
CABLE GUY: what are you going to do, sit home and stew about your ex?
STEVEN: no.
CABLE GUY: oh, okay. i guess i crossed the line.
STEVEN: you didn't cross the line.
CABLE GUY: no? cool. i'll pick you up at six-thirty. on the flip side.

STEVEN: there are twenty-four classrooms; each can be converted into a 1400 square foot home. the facility has two tennis courts, an olympic size pool and full gym, with a stage if the residents decide they want to perform "oklahoma." 
STEVEN: the kitsch appeal of living in an old schoolhouse should be very attractive to young, upwardly mobile home buyers. and most important, the structure is available in foreclosure. if we put down a cash bid, we're going to steal this thing.
MR. DANIELS: great work steve-o. so you're feeling good?
STEVE: yeah.
MR. DANIELS: did i hear something about you having some troubles at home?
STEVE: robin and i have been having a difficult time. i moved out, but i really think it's only temporary.
MR. DANIELS: gotcha. i love this project, but it's a big mother. know what i mean? if it fails, corporate's going to have my ass. i've got confidence in you, but you hear where i'm coming from, bro?
STEVEN: absolutely. now i've got more time than ever. it's a good thing. i know i can pull this thing off.
MR. DANIELS: then what are you doing talking to me? you've got a lot of work to do. get to it!
STEVEN: thank you. i will.

STEVEN: hello. 
ROBIN: steven, what are you doing here?
STEVEN: i was just in the area. thought i'd pop by. how's work? how'd the big teen crush article come out?
ROBIN: they liked it. i thought we agreed we weren't going to see each other for a month.
STEVEN: i know, it's just daniels accepted my proposal to renovate the old schoolhouse.
ROBIN: that's wonderful, congratulations.
STEVEN: i know i'm breaking the rules, but come have dinner with me tonight to celebrate.
ROBIN: i don't think we should.
STEVEN: come on, this is the biggest day of my career.
ROBIN: don't put me in this position.
STEVEN: what position? i want to share this with you.
ROBIN: i love you, but i need to take some time on my own to see how i feel. you agreed to this. i mean this is exactly why we broke up, because you never listen to me.
STEVE: what? now we're broken up? what happened to 'trial separation?'
ROBIN: i can't get into this now. if you haven't noticed, i'm at work.
STEVE: sorry to disturb you. he turns to leave.
ROBIN: steven. congratulations. i know how much this means to you. you deserve it.
STEVEN: thanks.

CABLE GUY: steven!!!! stev-ey!!!! let's go!!!! on the tv - a commercial for medieval times restaurant. 
CABLE GUY: steven!!!! hey buddy!!! come on down!!!
REPORTER: coming up next a special report, "loneliness, america's silent killer."
STEVEN: what the hell.

STEVEN: how's it going? 
CABLE GUY: howdy partner. climb aboard.
19	INT. VAN - CONTINUOUS: the van drives onto the main boulevard.
CABLE GUY: thanks for coming out. you know most people think cable is just a simple co-ax that comes out of the wall. they never take the time to understand how it works.
STEVEN: where exactly are we goin?
CABLE GUY: we're going to take a ride on the information superhighway.

CABLE GUY: it all started in lansford, pennsylvania where panther valley television, with the assistance of jerrod electronics, created the first cable television system. 
CABLE GUY: i went to lansford once. it's the cable guy's mecca. it was very emotional.

CABLE GUY: i come here to think sometimes. to clear my head. 
CABLE GUY: there she is. right now she's sending entertainment and information to millions of satisfied citizens.
STEVEN: that's pretty impressive.
CABLE GUY: see, i knew the moment i met you that you would appreciate this.
CABLE GUY: the future is now. soon every american home will integrate their television, phone, and computer. you'll be able to visit the louvre on one channel, and watch female mud wrestling on another. you can do your shopping at home, or play mortal kombat with a friend in vietnam. there's no end to the possibilities. come on up! what are you waiting for?!

CABLE GUY: sometimes i'll sit here and imagine that there are billions of bits of information surging through me. 
STEVEN: i've watched a lot of tv in my life. i guess i've always taken it for granted.
CABLE GUY: when i was a kid my mom worked nights. never met dad. but the old tv was always there for me.
STEVEN: i know what you mean. my dad was there, but he might as well have been gone. my mom is a stewardess. she was always out of town.
CABLE GUY: that's tough. you must have a lot of abandonment issues. reality isn't "father knows best," it's a kick in the face on saturday night. but what doesn't kill us makes us stronger, right?
STEVEN: you know my brother's a speech therapist.
CABLE GUY: so?
STEVEN: never mind.
CABLE GUY: so, you're pretty love struck about your lady, huh?
STEVEN: i miss her. i asked her to marry me, and she asked me to move out.
CABLE GUY: i hate that.
STEVEN: she said she felt pressured. can you believe that?
CABLE GUY: women are a labyrinth. can i be frank? i don't think you listen to her. i think you try to tell her what she wants to hear. she wants you to thirst for knowledge about who she is. all the complicated splendor that is woman. when your love is truly giving, it will come back to you ten-fold.
STEVEN: you're right. that is remarkably insightful.
CABLE GUY: yeah, it was jerry springer's final thought on friday's show.

CABLE GUY: you know what? women are suckers for "sleepless in seattle." it's on hbo this month. that's your bait right there. 
STEVEN: robin loves that movie.
CABLE GUY: they all do. next time you talk to her tell her you're cooking yourself dinner, and watching it by yourself. sound like you're happier than a pig in she'll come running. betcha. then just play it cool.
STEVEN: maybe i will.
STEVEN: thanks a lot. i'm embarrassed to say this, but i don't know your name. what is it?
CABLE GUY: you really want to know my name? you do? really? it's ernie douglas. but my friends call me chip.
STEVEN: i'll see ya' chip.
CABLE GUY: let's just remember right now. you know some people walk through their entire lives and never find a true friend. i guess we're the lucky ones.
STEVEN: uh good-bye.
CABLE GUY: later buddy. i'll catch ya' on the flip side.

STEVEN: i don't listen to you. i pretend to understand but i'm really just saying what i think you want to hear. so from now on i'm going to try my best to listen more because i do love you and am interested in learning about every detail about the complicated splendor that is you. 
ROBIN: oh.
STEVEN: i want us to get back together, but i can see why taking this time might be good for us. so, i'm not mad. after a long beat, robin smiles.
ROBIN: sometimes time apart is healthy.
STEVEN: you're right. well, that's what i came here to say. look, i've got to get back to the office.
ROBIN: so, are you doing anything tomorrow?
STEVEN: i'm just going to cook myself dinner and watch a movie. "sleepless in seattle" is on cable.
ROBIN: really?
STEVEN: if you're around you should drop by and check out the new apartment.
ROBIN: okay, maybe i will.
TABITHA SOREN: today in the sam sweet case the prosecution played the 911 call that sam sweet made the night he murdered his brother. keep in mind, he confessed one month later.
SAM SWEET V ON THE TAPE: hello, please send help. my twin brother has been shot.
911 OPERATOR: slow down sir. what happened?
SAM SWEET: oh my they shot him with a shot gun four times. i mean i think it was a shotgun. who would do such a thing?! i think it was an asian gang or something. they were speaking some other language.
TABITHA SOREN: hmm. who indeed? coming up next, a rare interview with michael jackson's zoo- keeper.

STEVEN: here, here, here. 
RICK: my fault! my fault!
STEVEN: not your fault. i'm in the zone. there is no stopping me today.
CABLE GUY: hey, you guys play here, too? cool. i was just in the neighborhood. thought i'd run the court for a couple of innings.
RICK: great. we need another man.
STEVEN: this is chip douglas my cable guy.
CABLE GUY: we met about a week ago during a routine installation, but i feel like i've known him my whole life. steven can't believe this is happening.
RICK: oh really. that's sweet. all right chip douglas, you're on shirts. let's play.
CABLE GUY: no, i want to be on steven's team. i'm skins.
JEFF: i don't care, i'll be shirts. let's just play.
CABLE GUY: wait a sec'. i've got to warm up.
CABLE GUY: let's get it on!
STEVEN: are you any good?
CABLE GUY: feed me under the boards and you'll find out.
CABLE GUY: traveling! that's traveling!
RICK: yeah, whatever you say chip.
CABLE GUY: all right, so we're playing that type of game. prison rules. i get it.
CABLE GUY: feed me the rock! feed me the rock! i'm open!
CABLE GUY: and one! that's definitely a foul! you want to mug me, my wallet is in my other pants.
STEVEN: what are you doing?
CABLE GUY: don't play from fear steven. we can take these guys.

CABLE GUY: take it to the hole! 
CABLE GUY: hey, are you okay?
STEVEN: yeah. i'm fine.
CABLE GUY: let's switch. i'll cover rick.
RICK: what the was that? that's it. i've had enough.
JEFF: thanks for bringing your "friend".
CABLE GUY: good game. you were tough out there. your play brought me up to a higher level. i mean that.
RICK: yeah.
STEVEN: what are you doing?
CABLE GUY: it was payback time. i was protecting you.
STEVEN: you ruined the game.
CABLE GUY: i don't appreciate your tone steven. that's not the way friends speak to each other.
STEVEN: what are you talking about? i don't even know you!
CABLE GUY: well let's fix that. let me buy you a heineken?
STEVEN: no, i'm going home.
CABLE GUY: well, uh, i guess we'll talk later. i've got to go shower up and do some stuff. i'll call you if i get a chance. or you call me or something.
CABLE GUY: and down low.
CABLE GUY: too slow. have a good one.
STEVEN: yeah, have a good one.

MESSAGE VOICE: you have eleven messages. 
STEVEN'S MOTHER: steven, it's mom. give me a call. i'm still your mother.

CABLE GUY: hey steven. just checking in. give me a ring. i'm at 555-4329. what's up steven? i'm at a pay phone. if you're there pick up. pick up. pick up. okay, i'll be home later. i'll talk to you then. 
CABLE GUY: okay i'm home now. give me a buzz when you get in. i'll be here pretty much all night. bye. hey steven. quick question, give me a call when you get a chance. i was just taking a whiz, thought you might have called. okay later. sorry, i had call waiting, didn't get to it, thought it might have been you. all right, bye.
CABLE GUY: we're having ourselves quite a little game of phone tag here. you're it! i was just blow drying my hair and i thought i heard the phone ringing. you're a tough man to reach. i guess you're too busy to call your friends.
CABLE GUY: 
STEVEN: hey, good to see you.
STEVEN: come on in. what do you think of the place?
ROBIN: you made some interesting choices laying out the room.
STEVEN: that's actually where the movers put the furniture. i'm gonna change it, very soon.
ROBIN: no, i like it.

ROBIN: so how's work? 
STEVEN: work's good.
ROBIN: how's hal?
STEVEN: don't get me started. that guy has no vision. it's like working for mr. magoo.
ROBIN: it's just great that you're getting to do it. it's a real step up.
STEVEN: i know. now if only someone at corporate smartened up enough to dump hal, then i could really get some stuff done.
ROBIN: it's nice to see you doing so well.
STEVEN: well, it's nice just to see you. hey, it should be starting.
STEVEN: cable is out. son of a
ROBIN: it's alright. we can watch it another night.
STEVEN: no, no. we really should see it now. now's a good time.
STEVEN: wait, wait. i know what to do.
STEVEN: the cable guy's a friend of mine. i'll just page him. we'll have this fixed in no time.

STEVEN: that was fast. 
CABLE GUY: is there a problem with your service?
STEVEN: yeah my cable went out.
CABLE GUY: really?
CABLE GUY: so you called me. interesting how you call when you need something. is that how you treat people?
STEVEN: i've been really busy. you've got to get my cable going, robin is here. this is really important.
CABLE GUY: but calling me back isn't?
STEVEN: i'm sorry. please, you've got to help me.
CABLE GUY: why should i help you? i gave you free cable. what have you ever done for me?
STEVEN: anything you want. name it â– quickly.
CABLE GUY: tomorrow night, we hang out.
STEVEN: fine, whatever you want.
CABLE GUY: bless you. you're too good to me.
CABLE GUY: all set.
STEVEN: so what's with the cut cord?
CABLE GUY: that's for effect. see ya' tomorrow steven. she's pretty. and don't kiss her. don't even touch her. fight the urge at all costs. it will pay off later with he makes a motion which implies sex.
CABLE GUY: enjoy the flick.
ROBIN: who was that?
STEVEN: nobody.
28	ON THE TV: a scene from the film "sleepless in seattle."

CABLE GUY: sorry about yesterday. i was in kind of a weird mood. how'd things go with you? 
STEVEN: pretty well. we'll see. look, about the other night. i didn't appreciate you --
CABLE GUY: don't peek. i want this to be a surprise.
STEVEN: i really don't need to be surprised.
CABLE GUY: only the best restaurant in town.
CABLE GUY: okay, here we are. open sesame. steven opens his eyes.
STEVEN: medieval times?
CABLE GUY: i know what you're thinking. don't worry, i'm buying.

STEVEN: funny. i never thought i would ever come here. 
CABLE GUY: i love this place. i come here twice a week.
CABLE GUY: oh man, that's my look. i love big butts. ow, that hurts.
CABLE GUY: there oughta be a law. man she is hot.
STEVEN: please don't.
CABLE GUY: you know what i need right now? pooooon tang. and i'm not talking about the place in vietnam.
STEVEN: good to know.
WAITRESS: welcome to medieval times. my name is melinda. i'll be your serving wench. may i get you something from the bar keep?
CABLE GUY: dost thou have a mug of ale for me and me mate? he has been pitched in battle for a fortnight an has a king's thirst for the beer thust thou might have for thust.
WAITRESS: i'll be right back my lord.
CABLE GUY: there you go.
STEVEN: thanks for the help. the cable guy sees something. his eyes widen.
CABLE GUY: steven, don't turn around, but there is a woman eyeing you like you are a piece of meat and she hasn't eaten in a week.
STEVEN: really? what does she look like?
CABLE GUY: shoe's a hottie. i wish she was checking me out. man -- she is on fire! total robo-babe.
STEVEN: are you serious?
CABLE GUY: don't look.
STEVEN: i've got to look.
CABLE GUY: okay, but play it cool. just turn like you are looking for the waitress.
CABLE GUY: ha-ha. i'm just messing with your mind. but you fell for it man. you are one indian chief.
STEVEN: you got me.
CABLE GUY: so what did you want to rap about?
CABLE GUY: hold that thought. show's on.

HOST: welcome to a magnificent journey into the past. this is medieval times! 
HOST: are you prepapred for a night of feasting and sport the likes of which ye will never forget?! the audience applauds.
HOST: i charge you to stand up on your feet and cheer for your section's knight!
CABLE GUY: let the games begin! the red knight rules! blue knight! you're going down! going down!

STEVEN: could i get a knife and fork? 
WAITRESS: there were no utensils in medieval times, so there are no utensils at 'medieval times.' do you want a refill on that pepsi?
STEVEN: there were no utensils, but there was pepsi?
WAITRESS: look, i have a lot of tables to get to.
CABLE GUY: spill his blood! take his kead! show no mercy!
CABLE GUY: come on, get into it, we won!
STEVEN: way to go red knight. good job of killing. good work.
CABLE GUY: so, what were you saying before?
STEVEN: how do i put this? i've really enjoyed hanging out with you, but...
CABLE GUY: that's why i became a cable guy. to make friends like you. every time i walk up to a new door, that door is a possibility for friendship. when i walked in your apartment i knew there was something there. i just knew it.
STEVEN: oh lord. i want you to know --
HOST: we have reached the climax of our competition good people! now, two noble men from our audience will battle to the death to resolve a grievance. will a master... steven m. bartowsky and lord ernie douglas make you way to the fighting pit!
STEVEN: what's going on?
CABLE GUY: we're going to do battle. it'll be fun.
STEVEN: is this a normal part of the show?
CABLE GUY: no, but i give all the knights free cable. they said it would be cool if we just went at it for a little while.
STEVEN: is this safe?
CABLE GUY: that's what the armor's for.

STEVEN: what are we supposed to do? we've got to be careful we don't hurt each other. 
CABLE GUY: i cannot listen to any of your instructions for you are my sworn enemy, and are about to meet your demise.
HOST: let the battle begin. come now people, let me hear your voices!
STEVEN: just take it easy.
STEVEN: what are you doing?!
CABLE GUY: i'm trying to kill you.
STEVEN: hey, watch it!
CABLE GUY: this is just like when spock had to fight kirk on 'star trek.' best friends forced to do battle.
CABLE GUY: that's the spirit. let's give 'em a good show.
CABLE GUY: so that's how it's gonna be, huh? all right. if you want to play rought, daddy can play rough.
STEVEN: chip, this isn't funny! will you stop it!
CABLE GUY: the name is spock. if we don't battle to the death, they'll kill us both. good-bye jim.
STEVEN: this isn't 'star trek!'

STEVEN:  
HOST: quickly, muster a top your steed. get on the horse! i don't think he's kidding!
STEVEN: don't do this!
CABLE GUY: jim, we have no choice!
STEVEN: oh my
STEVEN: are you okay?
CABLE GUY: well done good sir. you are the victor, but we shall meet again.

35	INT. STEVEN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT: they are walking up the stairs. 
CABLE GUY: you've got a real warrior's instinct.
STEVEN: i've got to admit there's a real feeling of power holding that jousting stick.
CABLE GUY: if robin saw you tonight, she would be begging you to take her back. i'm telling you these knights get laid all the time.
STEVEN: we should go again next week.
CABLE GUY: easy there lancelot.

MACHINE: you have zero messages. 
CABLE GUY: nobody loves ya. hey, i think i left my staple gun in the living room the other day. could you be a pal?
36AA	INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS: steven turns on the lights.
CABLE GUY: what do you think?
STEVEN: what is this?
CABLE GUY: i took the liberty of updating your in home entertainment system. i got you the big screen, plus thx quality sound that would make george lucas cream in his pants.
STEVEN: you went in my house when i wasn't home?
CABLE GUY: how else was i supposed to get the stuff in here? magic?
STEVEN: how much did this cost?
CABLE GUY: practically nothing. i have a connection. preferred customer. i hook him up, he hooks me up.
STEVEN: look, i can't accept this. i wouldn't feel right.
CABLE GUY: yes but you give me something so much more valuable friendship.
STEVEN: and you've given me friendship, so we're even. really, don't take it personally, but you've got to take it back.
CABLE GUY: well, my buddy with the pick-up truck works all week. is it all right if i leave it here till saturday?
STEVEN: sure, no problem. and don't get me wrong. i really appreciate the gesture.
CABLE GUY: mm-hmm. staple gun?
STEVEN: oh, right.

STEVEN: robin, it's steven again. i'm still trying to reach you. okay, i'm at work. call me. 
MR. DANIELS: how's it going?
STEVEN: good.
MR. DANIELS: good good?
STEVEN: great.
MR. DANIELS: good. keep it up.
SECRETARY: robin on line two.
STEVEN: hey, i had the best time the other night. when am i going to get you on my couch again?

CABLE GUY: well tonight's not looking too good. how about tomorrow? 
STEVEN: chip?
CABLE GUY: i knew i'd get you on the phone that way. listen, that equipment will be history the day after tomorrow. it sure would be a pity to leave that karaoke machine a virgin.
STEVEN: what do you mean?
CABLE GUY: tomorrow night, you are having a karaoke jam. no ifs ands or buts. well maybe a few butts. later gator.

ROBIN: yes. you left me five messages. it king of freaked me out. 
STEVEN: sorry. i've been trying to reach you 'cause i'm having a party.
ROBIN: i can't. i'm going to dinner with someone.
STEVEN: dinner? what, like a date?
ROBIN: not really a date.
STEVEN: you've got a date?! i thought things were going well between us.
ROBIN: they are.
STEVEN: so why are you going out on a date?
ROBIN: i made it before we got together the other night. i knew you would freak out.
STEVEN: i'm not freaking out.
ROBIN: yes, you are freaking out.
STEVEN: i'm not. i just can't believe you would do this.
ROBIN: i'm not doing anything wrong. i'm allowed to date. it's not like we're back together. we had a good time the other night, and you're already pressuring me.
STEVEN: fine, enjoy yourself. have fun.
ROBIN: i will.
STEVEN: fine. bye.
CABLE GUY: this is just a sign that you need to live a little. she's having fun, and you should too.
STEVEN: you're probably right.
CABLE GUY: right i'm right.
STEVEN: oh, i got you a little something.
CABLE GUY: i thought you said we were even. you're breaking the rules.
STEVEN: so shoot me.
STEVEN: my brother said it might help with your lisp.
CABLE GUY: words cannot express
STEVEN: it's no big deal.
CABLE GUY: yes it is.
CABLE GUY: now i'm on a mission. this has got to be the best party ever! let's rock.

STEVEN: you've got plenty of friends. 
CABLE GUY: these people are acquaintances. they're not ride to the airport friends, like us. whoa, chick alert at three o'clock. a real barn burner. don't look.
STEVEN: you're playing with me again.
CABLE GUY: no sirree steven. this woman is all over you like a lamp-shade.
STEVEN: shut up.
CABLE GUY: did it just get hotter in here? oh, that hurts.
STEVEN: who'd she come with?
CABLE GUY: i don't know, but she looks pretty available to me. i'd strike while the iron is hot. he who hesitates, masturbates, know what i'm saying?
ODD MAN: he sure can throw a party. chip's an incredible man. i really admire him.
RICK: where do you know him from?
ODD MAN: he hooked up my cable. didn't charge me either. that's the kind of guy he is.
STEVEN: hey. i'm steven.
WOMAN: heather.
STEVEN: can i get you something to drink?
HEATHER: sure. i'll have a shot of tequila if you will.
STEVEN: coming right up.

CABLE GUY: i'm glad you accepted my invitation. 
RICK: steven invited me.
CABLE GUY: look at him. have you ever seen him so alive? he's changing, rick. you've got to learn to live with that.
RICK: i don't know what your story is "chip douglas," but i'm going to find out.
CABLE GUY: oooh. how dramatic.
RICK: i'm getting out of here.
STEVEN: why? this is a great party. this girl is really into me.
RICK: you're whacked man. that guy is bad news.
STEVEN: you don't even know him. you're just mad 'cause he kicked your in basketball.
RICK: i can't even deal. i'm outta here.
CABLE GUY: hello everyone. first of all i'd like to thank steven for being such a terific host.
CABLE GUY: don't forget to kick in some spinach for the beer. steven ain't made of money. and i expect some of you to join in the clean up crew.
OFF DUTY COP: sing something! do a song!
CABLE GUY: no i really couldn't.
ODD MAN: come on! do your song!
CABLE GUY: okay, just to stop that guy from begging. this number is dedicated to all of the ladies in the house.

STEVEN: you sounded just like olivia newton john. 
HEATHER: i've been practicing for years.
STEVEN: so what do you do?
HEATHER: i can barely hear you. do you want to talk in the other room?
STEVEN: oh okay.

STEVEN: she says she wants a break, and that's fine with me. i think i needed some time also. 
HEATHER: yeah. i know what you mean.

CABLE GUY: good morning sleepy head. i hope you don't mind, i crashed on the couch. 
STEVEN: where did heather go?
CABLE GUY: i heard her slip out early this morning.
STEVEN: what a night. that was just what i needed.
CABLE GUY: you look like a new man.
STEVEN: i feel like a new man. i was getting so used to being rejected. i really liked her.
CABLE GUY: hey, it was my treat.
STEVEN: what do you mean it was "your treat?"
CABLE GUY: you know, i bought this time, you buy next time.
STEVEN: buy what?
CABLE GUY: you know, the women.
STEVEN: you mean heather is a prostitute?
CABLE GUY: of course she is. do you think a woman like that would hang out with us if we weren't paying? don't tell me you didn't know.
STEVEN: i can't believe this.
CABLE GUY: she's clean i assure you. i tried her out last week to make sure she was top quality, and i'm as healthy as a horse. not a drip. she's the best, ask any of my friends. steven cringes.
STEVE: you've got to be kidding? please tell me she's a friend of yours. you're just playing with my mind again, right?
CABLE GUY: i wish i had friends like that.
STEVEN: get out of my house!
CABLE GUY: don't be ashamed of yourself. i know she was a working girl, but she kind of liked you. you might have been able to get a freebie.
STEVEN: out, now! i don't ever want to see you again. robin is never going to forgive me.
CABLE GUY: i'll tell you how to handle that. don't tell her. you want to get her back, i'll help you get her back.
STEVEN: i don't want your help. i want you to leave. and take that stuff out of here.
CABLE GUY: whatever. i can take a hint. i'll see ya'.

HOSTESS: may i help you? 
CABLE GUY: no, i'm meeting someone here.

BATHROOM ATTENDANT: most appreciated. 
CABLE GUY: you've been working hard. take a break.

RAY: my brother and i wanna start our own sun block company. but the twist is, it's only for skiing. skiblock. or sunski. we haven't decided yet. maybe blockski. do you think that sounds good? 
ROBIN: blockski? that sounds right.
RAY: so, gail told me you're just coming off a relationship.
ROBIN: well, not really. we're kind of in a holding pattern. he wants more of a commitment, but i don't think i'm ready. i just want to have a good time for a while.
RAY: then we got to get you on a skidoo!
ROBIN: skidoo?
RAY: high powered snow mobile. it'll blow your mind. it flies over powder like it's glass.
RAY: hey, how are you doing on that chicken? have the eggs hatched yet? thanks.
RAY: so, how's your work going?
ROBIN: it's been crazy. they just hired a â–
RAY: hold that thought. i have to use the rest room. be right back.

MAN: towel please. 
CABLE GUY: my pleasure.
CABLE GUY: enjoy your meal the man exits. ray walks toward the stalls.
CABLE GUY: good evening sir. pleasant night, isn't it?
RAY: yeah.
CABLE GUY: but i guess the weather's always pleasant in here. the winters are remarkably mild.
CABLE GUY: if you need anything, just let me know.
RAY: i think i can handle it.
CABLE GUY: i'm here to serve you.
RAY: get out of here!
CABLE GUY: most people never bother to take advantage of all my services, for instance â–
CABLE GUY: i can help you wash up. cleanliness is so very important.
CABLE GUY: then once you're done i have a variety of skin care products which can make you look years younger.
CABLE GUY: this lotion is superb at removing liver spots.
CABLE GUY: this one is an excellent moisturizer.
CABLE GUY: and one can never underestimate the effects of a good cologne.
CABLE GUY: mm high karate. and now a touch of powder.
CABLE GUY: ooh, i almost forget, it's oh so very important to be properly tweezed.
CABLE GUY: you're on a big date, you'll need fresh breath.
CABLE GUY: whoops, that's not mouth wash. but that reminds me. proper hair care is a must.
CABLE GUY: looking good, now let's dry you off.
CABLE GUY: now it. the air!
CABLE GUY: from this angle you look just like neil armstrong experiencing g-force. i believe you have the "right stuff."
CABLE GUY: don't worry about the tip. but i've got one for you. stay away from robin. she's taken.
47A	INT. RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS: the door opens, and ray falls to the floor.

ANCHOR MAN: here's a bizarre story from downtown, where a man was beaten in a restroom by an assailant disguised as a bathroom attendant. the victim has been unable to speak since the unmotivated attack. 
ANCHOR MAN: a police sketch artist put together this drawing from witnesses' descriptions.
ANOUNCER: tonight on fox, the true story behind the trial that's captured the nation.
ANNOUNCER: the jury may still be out, but the chilling facts are in. eric roberts, in his dramatic debut is sam and stan sweet. "brother, sweet brother: the killing of stanton sweet." tonight on fox.
49A	EXT. ROBIN'S APARTMENT - DAY: the cable guy walks over to a female neighbor.
CABLE GUY: excuse me, apartment 202 is robin harris?
FEMALE NEIGHBOR: it's right upstairs.

ROBIN: who is it? 
CABLE GUY: it's the cable guy.
ROBIN: there's no problem with my cable.
CABLE GUY: i've got an upgrade order for one robin harris. the rainbow package, that's every pay channel available.
ROBIN: i didn't order this.
CABLE GUY: apparently you've got a secret admirer.
ROBIN: was it a man named steven?
CABLE GUY: i can't tell you.
ROBIN: come on.
CABLE GUY: no, i promised steven i wouldn't say.
CABLE GUY: whoops, i slipped. well you didn't hear it from me.

CABLE GUY: i'm sorry steven. i'm just a man. 
52	INT. APARTMENT - LATER: the cable guy is on his way out.
CABLE GUY: that about does it. enjoy.
ROBIN: so, are you a friend of steven's?
CABLE GUY: i'm proud to say i am. i installed his cable recently, and we just hit it off.
ROBIN: that's right. you fixed his cable the other night. so you guys are going out a lot?
CABLE GUY: not really. that man is devoted to you. you know i'm probably crossing a boundary telling you this, but he's really crazy about you.
ROBIN: did he say that?
CABLE GUY: only every five minutes. quite frankly, i'm sick of hearing it. no, i'm just kidding with you. he's a good man. he mentioned that you guys have had some problems.
ROBIN: well, it's a little complicated.
CABLE GUY: it always is. you know i asked a woman to marry me once. she said she wanted to think about it. we agreed to take some time apart to re-assess our feelings. to give each other space. well, she is no longer with us.
ROBIN: i'm so sorry.
CABLE GUY: sometimes you don't have the time you think you have. just promise me you'll never go bungee jumping in mexico.
ROBIN: i promise.
CABLE GUY: anyway, i've got to go.
53	EXT. ROBIN'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS: the cable guy smiles, proud of himself.

STEVEN: hello? 
ROBIN: i love you.
STEVEN: robin?
54	INT. ROBIN'S APARTMENT - INTERCUT: robin is on the phone.
ROBIN: yes.
STEVEN: i love you too.
ROBIN: that was so sweet of you.
STEVEN: oh well
ROBIN: you didn't have to do that.
STEVEN: i wanted to.
ROBIN: giving me free cable. only you would do that.
STEVEN: you got it? great.
ROBIN: yes, your friend came by.
STEVEN: my friend?
ROBIN: the cable guy. i liked him. he was kind of goofy, but nice. thank you so much for doing that.
STEVEN: i'm glad you liked it. i've wanted to do something nice for you, but i've been trying to give you your space.
ROBIN: well, i don't think we should make rules anymore.
STEVE: okay.
ROBIN: call me later if you're around?
STEVEN: sure. i'll call you as son as i get home. bye.
RICK: steven, are you ready to go?
STEVEN: the concert. oh
RICK: what?
STEVEN: robin just called. i think we're getting back together.
RICK: so you're blowing me off? i can't believe this.
STEVEN: this is the first time she asked to get back together.
RICK: you do this every time. you only call me after a girl breaks your heart. "oh rick can i stay on your couch? let's talk all night about how mean girls are." then as soon as a relationship starts again it's bye-bye rick. i don't know why i fall for it anymore.

STEVEN: can't you get someone else to go? 
RICK: maybe i'll take my cable guy.
CABLE GUY: pretty smooth work. i set 'em up, you knock 'em down.
STEVEN: what?
CABLE GUY: robin. i got her back for you. i juiced her up.
STEVEN: how do you know we're back together?
CABLE GUY: free cable is the ultimate aphrodisiac.
STEVEN: i don't want you messing around with my life. you've caused enough trouble as it is.
CABLE GUY: i know. i felt bad about the other night, so i wanted to make it up to you. so what are you doing? do you want to catch a bite? steve looks the cable guy in the eye.
STEVEN: look, i appreciate you helping me out with robin. but you have to understand, i'm going to have to work extra hard to not screw this relationship up again. you're a great guy, but i just don't have any room in my life for a new friend. do you understand?
CABLE GUY: i appreciate your honesty. you're a real straight shooter.
STEVEN: so, you're okay?
CABLE GUY: hey, i'm a big boy. it's no big deal.
STEVEN: all right well, take care.
CABLE GUY: have a good one.

ROBIN: are you alright? 
STEVEN: i'm fine.

CABLE GUY: hey, it's chip douglas. 
ROBIN: chip douglas?
CABLE GUY: your cable guy.
ROBIN: oh, hi. what's up?
CABLE GUY: i feel kind of weird calling you. it's just i'm worried about steven.
ROBIN: what is it?
CABLE GUY: something isn't right. he hasn't been himself lately. have you noticed anything?
ROBIN: no, things are actually going really well.
CABLE GUY: good.
ROBIN: should i be worried?
CABLE GUY: nope. i'm probably just being a nervous nellie. let's just keep our eyes open.
ROBIN: i will. good-bye.
ROBIN: steven bartowsky please.
57B	INT. STEVEN'S SECRETARY'S DESK - CONTINUOUS: his secretary, joan, answers the phone.
JOAN: sorry robin. he's in a meeting.

SALES MANAGER: the response to our initial offering has been remarkable. a local investment group has decided to buy the entire complex and turn them into rentals. in retrospect i must admit we made one big mistake. everyone hangs on his every word. 
SALES MANAGER: we should have asked for more money.
MR. DANIELS: i just want to put this out there, stevey. you did it bro. you laid your cajones, and mine, out on the table, and you slam dunked it. way to go. now watch, they'll kick you upstairs ahead of me. all right, in other business
JOAN: pssst. steven.
JOAN: i really need to speak with you.
STEVEN: it can wait.
POLICE OFFICER: is there a steven bartowsky here?
STEVEN: uh i'm steven bartowsky. what's going on?
POLICE OFFICER: you are under arrest.
MR. DANIELS: on what charge?
POLICE OFFICER: receipt of stolen merchandise.
STEVEN: what? i never â–
POLICE OFFICER: please put our hands on the table.
POLICE OFFICER: please follow my instructions. hands on the table.
POLICE OFFICER: hands behind your back.
POLICE OFFICER #2: you have the right to remain silent. anything you say may be used against you in a court of law. you have the right to an attorney. if you cannot afford an attorney one will be provided for you.
STEVE: this is all a mistake. i didn't accept any stolen goods.
CABLE GUY: you're getting thx quality sound that would make george lucas cream in his pants â– cream in his pants.
STEVEN: hey, relax. i'm the one who's going to jail.
59	EXT. OFFICE TOWER - MOMENTS LATER: steven is walked to a police car, and put inside.

EARL: i can't believe you did this. 
STEVEN: i didn't do anything. my cable guy gave me all that stuff as a present.
EARL: a stereo system and a big screen tv as a present? you expect me to believe that? you know you're killing your mother with this.
STEVEN: i swear it's true.
EARL: why would you accept such extravagant gifts?
STEVEN: i don't know. i shouldn't have.
EARL: what is really going on here steven? are you on something?
STEVEN: i'm fine! i didn't do anything! please call my cable guy, his name is ernie douglas.

EARL: you want to tell us the truth now 
STEVEN: that's got to be a mistake. oh, this is not happening.
EARL: yes it is, and it's killing your mother. did you deliberately want to ruin our fortieth anniversary party on monday, steven?
STEVEN: yeah, dad, i did. it's all a big plan. when can you get me out of here?

PRISONER #3: is baby scared? don't cry baby! 
ANGRY PRISONER: ooh, looks like i won the lottery.

STEVEN: what did you hear? what did you hear? 
CABLE GUY: hello steven. i came as soon as i heard. steven's head sinks.
STEVEN: who are you?! what's your real name?!
CABLE GUY: so many questions.
STEVEN: why are you doing this to me?
CABLE GUY: i didn't do this to you, you did this to you. you need to learn who your friends are.
STEVEN: you set me up.
CABLE GUY: i taught you a lesson. i can be your best friend, or your worst enemy. i hope you'll choose the latter i mean, the former. you know what i mean.
STEVEN: i'll never be your friend. you need help.
CABLE GUY: right now i think you're the one who needs help. i'm here to give you comfort.
CABLE GUY: come on, touch it.
CABLE GUY: come on. you need human contact. touch it.
STEVEN: i will not touch it.
STEVEN: what are you doing? stop it.
CABLE GUY: i know how you're feeling right now.
STEVEN: stop it! stop it!
CABLE GUY: i'm here for you.
STEVEN: get off there! are you trying to get me killed?
CABLE GUY: i was just messing with your mind. that was from 'midnight express.' awesome film. oliver stone won the academy award for the screenplay.
STEVEN: guard! guard!
CABLE GUY: don't you worry about robin, i'll make sure she's well taken care of.
STEVEN: you go near her, i'll kill you.
STEVEN: hey, this is the guy who framed me!
CABLE GUY: louis, how'd you like that tyson fight on pay per view? i told you it's more fun when it's free per view.

CABLE GUY: sea shells. sea shells. salmon. salmon. silverware. silverware. suspicious. suspicious. sensational. sensational. 
ROBIN: hello.
CABLE GUY: hello. i'm sorry we have to meet under these circumstances.
ROBIN: me too. believe me.
CABLE GUY: i know we don't know each other very well, but we do have one thing in common, our concern for steven.
ROBIN: well, you were right. something's happening with him and he won't even acknowledge it.
CABLE GUY: if he refuses to admit he has a problem, we may have to let him hit bottom. he's gonna need some tough love.
ROBIN: you know his lawyer said that nobody named ernie douglas works for the cable company.
CABLE GUY: did he do a name search? 'cause i work under a pseudonym so the customers won't harass me at home. kind of like a stripper. my real name is larry, larry tate.
ROBIN: and he's saying he received all the stereo equipment from you.
ROBIN: i just feel like i triggered this with him. it's not that i don't want to get married, it's just i felt like he wanted to get married just to get married. i don't deal well with pressure.
CABLE GUY: hey, welcome to the human race. we're not perfect. we all think we have to look like a 'baywatch' babe and be as witty as 'seinfeld.' give yourself a break.
ROBIN: i could go for turkey and mashed potatoes now.
CABLE GUY: comfort food. bring it on.
ROBIN: exactly.
CABLE GUY: you've got a great laugh. can i make a small request? i'd like to hear it a little more often.

BARRY NOLAN: the sam sweet trial has been thrown into chaos as a result of a videotape made a month after the killing. in this "hard copy" exclusive an apparently intoxicated sam sweet puts on a macabre show for his friends at a party. the judge has not decided whether this tape is admissible as evidence. 
SAM SWEET: hey everyone. look it's me and my brother stan. hi stan. it's so nice to see you. how are you feeling? look, he's alive.
SAM SWEET: now he's dead.
SAM SWEET: what? i'm just goofing around.
STEVEN: i'm sorry dad.
EARL: i don't want to hear it. do you know the pain you out your mother through? you're lucky she didn't die of a heart attack.
STEVEN: i didn't do anything.
EARL: just like you said you didn't steal that 'x-men' comic book when you were eight. then i found it in your underwear drawer.
STEVEN: will you ever stop mentioning that?
EARL: this cost me a lot of money. you jump bail, and i swear i'll hire a bounty hunter to hunt you down.

ROBIN: are you sure you're okay? 
STEVEN: i'm fine.
ROBIN: you're not fine. when you say you're fine, i know you're not fine.
STEVEN: i just want to get this over with so i can go home and get some rest.
ROBIN: i wanted you to know i invited your friend. he was concerned about you.
STEVEN: great. i feel. bad. i've been kind of blowing rick off lately.
ROBIN: not rick.
CABLE GUY: you can only come in if you came to rage.
CABLE GUY: is this guy cool? i'm just joshing. come on in.
70	INT. STEVEN'S FATHER'S HOME: steven turns to robin.
STEVEN: what is he doing here?
ROBIN: i invited him.
STEVEN: when did you invite him?
ROBIN: at lunch the other day.
STEVEN: at lunch? you had lunch with him?
ROBIN: hello. you look great.
CABLE GUY: and you are a vision. hello steven.
STEVEN: come here.
CABLE GUY: steven, what's with you tonight? i'm getting some really weird energy from you.
STEVEN: maybe it's because i just got out of prison, where you sent me. i should just drag you to the police right now.
CABLE GUY: you can if you like, but i'd hate to have to show robin this.
STEVEN: you son of a
CABLE GUY: come on steven, let's just have a good time tonight. robin, earl and steven's mother walk over.
EARL: steven, your mother and i had a long talk with your friend larry here when he came over to screw in the cable.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: thank you again for that.
EARL: we owe you an apology. i didn't realize the seriousness of your problems. you're obviously going through some kind of personal and i need to be more understanding. we didn't get involved with things like that when i was your age.
EARL: i know we haven't been there for you lately but we're going to see you through this, 'cause we are a family. i love you.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: you've got a good friend here.
PETE: hey buddy, we're with you. keep your chin up.

CABLE GUY: so steven is carrying this battle ax, and he's chasing me, swinging like a mad man. i'm yelling at him, 'hey, it's just a show!' 
STEVEN'S SISTER: he always takes things too seriously.
CABLE GUY: tell me something i don't know. this guy almost took my head off. everybody laughs.

CABLE GUY: it's from "goodfellas." remember the intro scene at the bar. i'm johnny two times. he moves in slow motion some more. everyone laughs. 
TONY/CABLE GUY: pow, pow, pow. you're under arrest.
CABLE GUY: you'll never catch me copper.
CABLE GUY: i'm gonna wear a disguise.
CABLE GUY: oh, you got me.
CABLE GUY: aaah!!! nobody messes with me and lives!

TONY/CABLE GUY: booo! 
CABLE GUY: oh man, you should have seen your face.
STEVEN: very funny. tony, go to your mother!
CABLE GUY: look what you've done.
STEVEN: i know you beat up robin's date.
CABLE GUY: i guess i did what you didn't have the guts to do.
STEVEN: you stay away from robin.
CABLE GUY: don't mess with me. i'm feeling like a part of the family, and i like it. you should try it sometime.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: my, you two look like brothers. come on back, we're all having coffee in the living room.
CABLE GUY: are you guys trying to fatten me up? 'cause if you are, you're doing a good job of it.

CABLE GUY: you guys have never played "porno password?" 
EARL: no, but i like the sound of it.
CABLE GUY: it's the adult version of the popular television game show. robin you're on my team. steven, you're with mom. you're the audience. the cable guy sits next to robin. steven and his mother sit across from them.
CABLE GUY: the password is vagina.
STEVEN: i really don't want to play this game. woman. woman.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: uh man?
STEVEN: no.
CABLE GUY: pe-nis. pe-nis. pe-nis.
CABLE GUY: peeee-nis. peeee-nis.
ROBIN: vagina?
CABLE GUY: yes!
EARL: i thought it was going to be schlong! whoops.
CABLE GUY: the password is nipple.
STEVEN: can i pass?
EARL: come on steven, don't be a stick in the mud.
STEVEN: breast. breast.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: tit?
CABLE GUY: hard
ROBIN: erection?
STEVEN: center. center.
STEVEN'S MOTHER: nipple?
STEVEN'S MOTHER: i can't believe i got it. i was going to say areola.
CABLE GUY: i wish you did, 'cause we'd be ahead.
CABLE GUY: the password is i'm not sure how to pronounce this, it's either clitoris, or clit-oris.
STEVEN: i can't say that to my mother!
EARL: hey, she's a grown woman. she can handle it.
ROBIN: come on steven. we're just having fun.
STEVEN: no, i've had enough. i can't do this. this guy is ruining my life, i won't sit here and play x-rated party games with him.
EARL: steven, i really think you're over- reacting.
STEVEN: i am not over-reacting. you're all being fooled by this guy! he's a felon for christ sake! i hate you! get out of my life!
CABLE GUY: i'm sorry everyone. if i am a nuisance, i will leave. i would never stay where i am not wanted.
ROBIN: you're not a nuisance. please don't go. steven, you're being an
EARL: yeah, steven it seems like you're the one with the problem.
STEVEN: what? you have no idea what this guy is really like.
CABLE GUY: i'll just go.
STEVEN: see what i mean!
CABLE GUY: steven, what's with you tonight? robin showed me that birthmark on her left shoulder. it's very sexy.
ROBIN: i can't believe you.
CABLE GUY: i'm fine. thank you for a delightful evening. i forgive you.
STEVEN: you don't understand.

ROBIN: i just think you were completely out of line. i don't know what's happening to you these days. 
STEVEN: robin, this guy is a sociopath. he leaves messages on my machine night and day. he shows up wherever i go. he won't leave me alone.
ROBIN: sounds familiar.
STEVEN: you know he was the one who beat up your date at that restaurant. that's right. and he gave you the free cable. it wasn't me.
ROBIN: but you took the credit for it?
STEVEN: that's what he wanted. he was manipulating me. it feels so good to be honest about this. we're finally communicating. i've been wanting to tell you for so long, but he's been blackmailing me.
ROBIN: blackmailing you? how?
STEVEN: with a photograph.
ROBIN: of what?
STEVEN: me with a... prostitute.
ROBIN: what?!
STEVEN: he set it up. he invited this woman to my party and didn't tell me she was a prostitute. i'm so glad we can talk about this.
ROBIN: when did you have a party?
STEVEN: when we weren't communicating. i invited you. you were out on a date.
ROBIN: and you were with a prostitute.
STEVEN: she seduced me. that's what they do. they're professionals. and i didn't even know she was a prostitute.
ROBIN: so that makes it better?
STEVEN: that's not the point. the point is this guy has been setting me up. he's responsible.
ROBIN: he didn't have with a whore. you did.
STEVEN: robin you don't --
ROBIN: i don't want to hear it. breaking up was the best thing we ever did. you have some serious problems, and it's not my responsibility to help you. i am only responsible for my own happiness.
STEVEN: where did that come from?
ROBIN: it was jerry springer's "final thought." she exits.

STEVEN: i'm sorry i've been blowing you off. 
RICK: you bet your you've been blowing me off.
STEVEN: it's just, this guy is really doing a number on me.
RICK: i told you not to hang out with him.
STEVEN: you're the one who told me to offer him money so i could get free cable.
RICK: you didn't tell me he was a psychopath. i'll see if i can get my friend in research to track him down. what's his name again?
STEVEN: ernie douglas.
RICK: ernie douglas? ernie douglas? why does that sound so familiar?

BACK TO SCENE: steven walks over to joan. 
STEVEN: did anyone notice i'm late?
JOAN: what are you talking about, you've been here for an hour.
STEVEN: thank you.

STEVEN: work's good. 
ROBIN: how's hal?
STEVEN: don't get me started. that guy has no vision. it's like working for mr. magoo.
ROBIN: it's just great that you're getting to do it. it's a real step up.
STEVEN: i know. now if only someone at corporate smartened up enough to dump hal, then i could really get some stuff done.

STEVEN: chip! chip, this isn't funny! where are you?!!! 
STEVEN: leave me alone! i have no job, no girlfriend, no family anymore! it's over! you won!
CABLE GUY: oh no. it's not over. it's just gettin' started.

95A	INT. NEWSROOM - NIGHT: on the tv - the local news. 
MARK THOMPSON: the jury has notified the judge that they are very close to reaching a verdict, and would like to keep deliberating into the evening hours.
RESEARCHER: there are five people named ernie douglas in this county. two are african american. one is eighty-five years old. one is eleven years old, and the last one is in a wheelchair.
RICK: so we're nowhere. ernie douglas? ernie douglas?
RICK: could you stop that?
RESEARCHER: don't snap at me. i'm doing this as a favor.
RICK: wait, could you start that again? start tapping your foot again.

STEVEN: hello. 
RICK: bingo. "my three sons."
STEVEN: chip and ernie douglas.

STEVEN: carmine from "laverne and shirley." 
RICK: that's so sad that you know that. anyway, the cable company in town fired a guy six months ago named darren stevens. he stole the truck and disappeared. that's our guy.
STEVEN: so he doesn't even work for the cable company?

CABLE GUY: this man killed his own brother. some people don't even have a brother... 
CABLE GUY: ...do they steven? are you listening to me? don't shut it off. don't shut it --

CABLE GUY: steven, you're just like me. we're cut from the same cloth. we're one and the same! 
105	INT. STEVEN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT: steven wakes up in a cold sweat.
STEVEN: oh my she's right. i am a smotherer. i'm just like him.
STEVEN: hello.
CABLE GUY: it didn't have to come to this steven.
STEVEN: rick told me you were fired from the cable company. you're not even a real cable guy.
106	INT. SOMEWHERE - CONTINUOUS: close up of the cable guy's face.
CABLE GUY: do you feel good now that you've hurt me? well now i'm going to have to hurt you. i'm going to take away what you hold dearest in the world.
STEVEN: i swear to if you touch --
CABLE GUY: could you hold on a second, i've got call waiting. it'll just be a sec.
CABLE GUY: sorry about that. where was i? oh yeah.

CABLE GUY: i wish there was. oh steven, i'm just so tired. so very tired. 
STEVEN: let's talk in person. where are you?
CABLE GUY: i'm close. so very close.
CABLE GUY: you know, i don't think you're right for robin. she needs someone who can be sensitive to her needs. someone who understands her soul.
STEVEN: you stay away from her.
CABLE GUY: aren't we the control freak. looks like you're starting to sweat.
STEVEN: i got the camera. you can't see me.
CABLE GUY: oh yeah? then why are you picking your face?
CABLE GUY: you're getting closer.
CABLE GUY: pity, such a nice cd rack. you know sometimes the answer is right under your nose.

109	INT. RICK'S NEWSROOM - NIGHT: rick sits at his desk. the phone rings. 
RICK: hello.

STEVEN: hey rick. i need to meet with you right away. i've got some information about this crazy cable guy. 
RICK: me too. i've got the whole story.
STEVEN: that's great. let's meet at the old school at nine-thirty.
RICK: why all the way out there?
STEVEN: i think he's been following me. don't be late, buddy.

STEVEN: be home! be home! 
FEMALE NEIGHBOOR: go away! i remember you. you're her obsessive boyfriend. she said you might come here. i'm calling the police.
109A	EXT. HALF RENOVATED SCHOOL - NIGHT: rick drives up, then walks into the building.
110	INT. HALF RENOVATED SCHOOL - CONTINUOUS: rick walks through the school looking for steven.
RICK: steven? steven?
STEVEN: hey rick. i'm really excited to hear what you found out about this nut.
RICK: i hit the holy grail. this guy is deeply troubled. only child. his mother was arrested for prostitution, and phone solicitation. apparently she was some phone pioneer.
STEVEN: no way.
RICK: and get this, he was discharged from the marines. he got mad at his sergeant so he sent a weapons silo to defcon two using a radio shack computer. and that's not the half of it.
CABLE GUY: really? tell me more.
CABLE GUY: i'm very interested in learning everything i can about that wacked out cable installer. he turns and runs. he is fifteen feet away from the cable guy.
CABLE GUY: it sounds like he might hurt somebody.

STEVEN: hello. 
CABLE GUY: nosey friends for two hundred. this supposed pal of steven's is currently residing in the intensive care unit of good samaritan hospital.
STEVEN: rick.
CABLE GUY: i'm sorry, you didn't answer in the form of a question. he hangs up.

STEVEN: rick legatos. he's a friend of mine. 
DOCTOR: room 205.
STEVEN: can i see him?
DOCTOR: yes. but he can't speak. he's in shock.

STEVE: ring? 
STEVEN: hello.
CABLE GUY: poor rick. seems he had a little accident with the business end of a staple gun.
STEVEN: you're not going to get away with this.
CABLE GUY: the question is, are you going to get away with it? apparently there was an anonymous tip placed to the police leading them to a staple gun at the crime scene with your fingerprints all over it.
ROBIN: all right, i'm ready.

CABLE GUY: be right there. 
STEVEN: was that robin?
CABLE GUY: i've got to go. we're going to take a romantic stroll on the information superhighway.

CABLE GUY: ...it all started in lansford, pennsylvania where panther valley television, with the assistance of jerrod electronics, created the first cable television system. 
116F	EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT: the chase continues.

CABLE GUY: the future is now. soon every american home will integrate their television, phone, and computer. you'll be able to visit the louvre on one channel, and watch female mud wrestling on another. you can do your shopping at home, or play a game of mortal kombat with a friend in vietnam. 
117	EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT: the chase continues.

ROBIN: this is really fascinating, but i really think we ought to go now. 
CABLE GUY: i knew you'd appreciate it. i took steven here once, and he didn't give a rats about my interests.
ROBIN: i'm worried about steven.
CABLE GUY: maybe steven should be worried about you. so, where was i?

CABLE GUY: ichabod crane! the disney channel showed it all last month. 
CABLE GUY: let's get ready to ruuuuuummmmbbble!!!!
STEVEN: where's robin?!
CABLE GUY: this isn't about robin, this is about you and me. steven charges directly at the cable guy.
STEVEN: where's robin?!!!
STEVEN: tell me!
CABLE GUY: i'm sorry, i didn't catch the question?
CABLE GUY: steven you've changed. i like it. the cable guy convulses his body, pushing steven off him.
CABLE GUY: i think it's time to make you cable ready.
CABLE GUY: last time we fought i let you win! best two out of three!
CABLE GUY: you can't shut me off with your remote control!!!! i'm not like robin and rick and mommy and daddy and brother and sister and cousin --
STEVEN: i got the point.
ROBIN: steven.

ROBIN: help me steven! 
ROBIN: steven! look out!
CABLE GUY: yeah steven. look out!
CABLE GUY: i've missed you.
CABLE GUY: "dry land is not a myth, i've seen it." kevin costner from waterworld. i don't know what the fuss was about, the movie ruled, i saw it six times.
CABLE GUY: isn't it weird that we'vve wound up in this position?
CABLE GUY: who would have thunk it?
CABLE GUY: you're gonna have to do better than that steven. steven. hey, my lisp is gone.
CABLE GUY: you stupid son of a
ROBIN: steven!

STEVEN: hang on. 
CABLE GUY: i know what your saying. who does this guy think he is, jason?
STEVEN: stay away from her!
CABLE GUY: i saw that in trapeze, starring tony curtis. he was just on "life-styles of the rich and famous." he still looks terrific.
CABLE GUY: and the race is on.
CABLE GUY: this is such an anti-climactic way to end this.

ROBIN: i'm sorry i didn't believe you. i love you. 
STEVEN: i love you too. you're right. we shouldn't get married. i've got a lot of problems to work out which have absolutely nothing to do with you.
ROBIN: we'll work them out together.
CABLE GUY: what just happened? where am i? oh yeah, i was trying to kill you.
CABLE GUY: it's a sleeper hold. hulk hogan used it on sly stallone in "rocky three." he should wake up in thirty seconds, so let's get going.

STEVEN: easy. 
CABLE GUY: it didn't have to be this way steven. i'm just trying to show you the kind of things that can happen when you mistreat people.
STEVEN: don't do anything stupid.
CABLE GUY: you know this is just like that secen in that clint eastwood movie "dirty harry" --
STEVEN: no! this is not like anything! this is not a movie! we're real people! you're hurting us! this is reality!
CABLE GUY: if this is reality... ...i am outta here.
STEVEN: nooo!
STEVEN: you're not going anywhere.
STEVEN: don't do this. you just need help. we all get lonely.
CABLE GUY: yeah, but i get really lonely. i mean, look at me.
STEVEN: you're gonna be fine. just come on up.
CABLE GUY: steven, i think i sat too close to the television. mommy was right.
CABLE GUY: it's too late for me, but there's a lot of little cable boys out there who still have a chance. say good-bye to the baby- sitter.
126A	EXT. ANTENNA - NIGHT: long wide shot of the entire antenna.
127	INT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT: a nuclear family is watching court tv.
REPORTER: this is the moment america has been waiting for. we've just been told the jury is ready to render their decision.

CABLE GUY: damn, that hurt like a mother. what the was i thinking? oh man, that stings. 
CABLE GUY: a little help here!

STEVEN: is he going to be all right? 
PARAMEDIC: i don't know. it's in hands.

PARAMEDIC: hang in there buddy. stay with me. just stay with me. 
CABLE GUY: am i really your buddy?
137	EXT. SKY - DAWN: the helicopter flies away.

