speaker1: oh, no! the hair's wrong. this is a bad sign. we really need to get a make-up person?! the segment producer, ally loman, steps over. 
speaker2: not in the budget. and not to
speaker2: worry, you're going to look great in this.
speaker1: a hair net? i'm not wearing a hair net. i just did the hair.
speaker2: health code. in the kitchen or around the cookie, you gotta have it.
speaker1: you guy's should tell me this before hand, this is like a huge waste of...moose.
speaker1: remind me to swing by an elementary school after this and serve lunch.

speaker1: you're a thing of beauty. in three, two, one. . . 
speaker2: for three decades the kowolski family bakery has been a mainstay in downtown buffalo. known for their sinfully rich, cream filled, deep fried polski pierogis. and the occasional sugar induced coma that follows. today, in honor of their 30 year anniversary, momma kowolski and her sons gustov and vol, decided to do something, a little bit different. tell me guys, how did this idea come about?
speaker3: well, vol said to me, 'gustov, why don't we make the biggest chocolate chip cookie in buffalo?' and i said, 'yeah, sure.'
speaker2: wow. fascinating.
speaker2: the previous buffalo cookie record was 3 feet, 17 inches baked by gladys pelsnick. but this behemoth cookie clearly proving that gustov and vol have much more free time.
speaker2: as we witness the ceremonial toasting with milk it makes one pause and think. what are we really looking at here?

speaker1: is it just a big cookie or does this cookie represent the pride of buffalo? our dedicated and hard working citizens the key ingredient, with a few nuts thrown in. and finally, the love of our families which provides the warm chewy center making our beloved buffalo the sweetest place to live. 
speaker1: and that's the way the cookie crumbles. i'm bruce nolan, eyewitness news.

speaker1: so, what do you think? 
speaker2: it's good.
speaker1: it it's a story about a cookie. people with eating disorders will be riveted, dear bruce, love the bakery piece. i can't wait to vomit so i can make room for more cookies.
speaker2: i thought it was funny. i love the hair net. how'd you get it to do that?

speaker1: what? i'm cutting that. they made me wear that stupid thing. i don't even look like myself. the hair is one of the most important parts of an on camera persona. right out of the gate, i lost the hair advantage. 
speaker2: oh, my gosh, look at this one. my sister is so drunk.
speaker1: grace. try to stay focused here.
speaker2: aren't you taking this a little too seriously?
speaker1: it's sweeps grace. it is serious. there's an anchor job open. this is important. this is our future!
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'm never going to get anchor doing these kind of assignments. i want my work to matter.
speaker2: it does matter. you're funny. you make people smile. come on, take a break, help me put this album together.

speaker1: alright. 
speaker2: oh look at this. it's the first day we moved in together.
speaker1: yeah, so full of hopes and dreams.
speaker2: oh, here's me at my sister's wedding. i caught the bouquet.
speaker1: you look pretty intense, hun.
speaker2: well, i was thinking about you.
speaker1: so, you're attracted to me in some way, is that what you're trying to say?
speaker2: you have no idea.
speaker1: i was saving myself for the wedding night, but if you keep this up, i may lose my resolve.
speaker2: well, that's the way the cookie crumbles.

speaker1: hey, that's a good line, but you need more resonance. from the diaphragm. that's the way the cookie crumbles. 
speaker2: oh, say it again.
speaker1: that's the way the cookie crumbles.
speaker2: oh, i just love on-air personalities.
speaker1: well then, let me take these clothes off and slip into my hair net.

speaker1: we see the intro for sixty minutes: 
speaker2: i'm ed bradley, i'm merely safer, an d i ' m --
speaker3: ...bruce nolan. and this is sixty minutes.

speaker1: sweety, time to get up... 
speaker2: no, i'm having a great dream.
speaker3: ...and the sabers lost another close one last night. four to three to the toronto maple leafs.
speaker2: of course they lost, they're my team.

speaker1: "and that's the way the cookie crumbles." you know, i think there might be something to that cookie line. everything great anchor has his own signature sign-off. "and that's the way the cookie crumbles." 
speaker2: peeing in the corner on the carpet.

speaker1: oh no! grace, the dog! 
speaker2: i'm in the shower!
speaker1: ah!

speaker1: wow, nice car, huh? 
speaker2: yeah, if you want to rub your success in people's faces.
speaker2: what's with the hubbub?
speaker1: we're having a blood drive.
speaker2: creepy. needles, yech...
speaker1: oh, that's a nice response.

speaker1: i mean, it's just s o . . . 
speaker2: helpful and life saving?
speaker1: c'mon, that's your...blood. it's in your body and i don't think it's supposed to come out. besides, they stockpile that stuff. they have an endless supply frozen in a warehouse somewhere then tell everyone there's a shortage.
speaker2: they do not. now stop it. i'm giving. i have a very rare blood type, ab positive.
speaker1: well, i'm ib positive. ib positive they aint touchin' me with no needle.
speaker3: h
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: prayer beads. the kids made 'em.
speaker1: well, i hope they work, cause it's going take a miracle to get me to work on time.

speaker1: this is just my luck. 
speaker2: the meeting's starting, perfect... screw it.
speaker1: catch you later, lemmings 1 it's kill or be killed, only the strong survive, no guts, no glory1
speaker3: bruce pulls over, fumes.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: bruce the goose! morning, buddy. don't even move, i got somethin' special today. my mom made it just for you. 
speaker2: well, that's- bobby, i gotta go- i'm late...
speaker1: you like quiche?
speaker1: you know, contrary to popular belief the quiche was actually invented by the mayans, then stolen by the french. they shoulda said, "hey, that quiche ain't yours, it's mayan!" bobby belts out a laugh.
speaker2: bobby, i can't, i--
speaker1: just taste it, taste it...
speaker2: mmm, delicious, i really gotta go.
speaker1: that's a buck seventy-five.
speaker2: can you get kelly- ahh...
speaker1: oh, two o'clock, two o'clock, two-o- five, two-ten...

speaker1: way out of our league, huh? 
speaker1: you know, i saw them editing your cookie piece.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: they must have gotten high or something, cause they was orderin' everything, i had. hey, how long have you been interested in pastry? 'cause i've got an aunt who makes baklava twenty layers deep.
speaker2: bobby.
speaker1: maybe you could do a story on her!
speaker2: keep the change.
speaker1: i'll give her a call, we'll talk about it later!

speaker1: okay, promos are approved, let's-- 
speaker2: ah, isn't that last one a little misleading? i mean, the story's about flu shots. do we have to scare people to death?
speaker3: no, just into watching. or i could change it to: "slow news day, come yawn with us. at eleven."
speaker4: sniffles at eleven is nice.
speaker5: attack of the killer sniffles?
speaker2: the tanning booth is starting to zap your brain, you know that?
speaker5: i don't use a tanning booth.
speaker4: come on. you're turning orange.
speaker3: he looks florida ripe to me. . more laughs.

speaker1: i would have swore i already said this, but promos are approved. now can we move on? 
speaker2: jack, shouldn't the promos be focusing on pete's retirement.
speaker3: yeah, yeah. any word on the open anchor position, jack?
speaker1: evan, you'11 know something when i know something.
speaker4: sorry, jack. it wasn't my fault. the traffic was -- you guys already played the spots?
speaker1: nice story, bruce, but we're going with evan's piece on the scandal at the mayor's office for sweeps.
speaker3: and that's the way the cookie crumbles.
speaker3: i'm just messin' with you, bruce. see you've got to remember that the news room is like a cookie...
speaker4: that's great evan.

speaker1: bruce is you're posture naturally that good, or do you have to shove a stick up there? 
speaker2: okay, knock it off... bruce we're holding your story in reserve. now, can we get back to the board so we have something to air today?

speaker1: jack, jack, hey. can i talk to you for a second? 
speaker2: sure, bruce. what do you need?
speaker1: sweeps.
speaker3: don't worry about it. i called my aunt, we're on.
speaker1: look, jack. hear me out, i'm getting desperate man, i am pushing forty and what have i got to show for it? the point is, i've hit some kind of a ceiling here. some kind of anti-bruce barrieri and evan is just lovin' it, by the way. he gets the good stories, he gets on sweeps. maybe i have to be more like evan.
speaker2: you don't want to be like evan.
speaker1: i can be an

speaker1: no, bruce. you can't. 
speaker1: are you going to pick that up?
speaker2: yeah, i'm sorry.
speaker2: it's just- this anchor position looming, it's gotten me nuts...
speaker3: hi, jack.
speaker1: look, bruce. you're a good reporter. you make people laugh. knows today we can use it.
speaker1: alright, tell you what. it's the 23rd anniversary of the maid of the mist. i want you at niagara falls in an hour.
speaker2: maid of the mist. that's always live.
speaker1: yep.
speaker2: evan gets the live feeds.

speaker1: well now you and evan get the live feeds. 
speaker2: i'm going live. in sweeps.
speaker1: yes, but watch yourself, bruce. i've seen your outtakes.
speaker2: yes 1 you will not regret this, jack. i will not forget you when i go national.

speaker1: martin, are you eating the glitter again? 
speaker1: martin. open your mouth. abra su boca.
speaker1: oh, you're not huh? well, then you've got a bad case of liberace.
speaker2: mommy1

speaker1: they didn't teach you spanish in nursing school, did they? 
speaker2: well, it seemed like they were speaking a foreign language sometimes, but no. problemo?
speaker1: martin has decided to explore new food groups. martin, this is for art. like this.
speaker2: is it so wrong to tie them up?
speaker1: d eb -- ma rt i n!
speaker1: okay, go rinse your mouth with water. lave su boca. go. i swear that kid is going to an ornament.
speaker2: you're good with them, you know.
speaker1: don't start...
speaker2: free milk cow.
speaker1: debbie, don't call me that.
speaker2: if the moo fits.

speaker1: saved by the bell. grab that for me, will you? 
speaker2: small wonders day care.

speaker1: no, it's debbie. the sister who's life you're not wasting. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: sorry, honey. my sister seems to think she's my mother. where are you?
speaker3: oh, a little place called the winners circle. i'm at the falls doing a "live" report.
speaker2: live? that's greati
speaker3: yep, it's happenin', hun. i got sweeps and i'm live. you know what that means?

speaker1: bruce they're seeing if i can think on my feet, like you might have to do in a live news anchor situation. 
speaker2: oh, my gosh.
speaker3: this is happening for us, grace. what we've always talked about. jack practically came out and told me.
speaker2: wait, what do you mean practically?
speaker3: well, he didn't spell it out, but this is exactly what happened to susan ortega right before she was bumped up to the desk.
speaker2: i just want to make sure we're not getting too ahead of ourselves.
speaker3: i totally agree, but in the mean time you should start thinking about what coast you want to live on.
speaker3: oh, they're calling me, i gotta go.
speaker2: good luck, honey. i love you.
speaker3: i love you. debbie turns to grace.
speaker4: moooo.

speaker1: they want you close to the falls. 
speaker2: what for? i'll get soaked.
speaker1: that's the point. they want you to hold up this.
speaker1: part of the condition of us getting the exclusive.
speaker1: remember, this is their 23rd anniversary. capacity is 59. they cater to tourists, honeymooners. . .
speaker2: and people who are insanely ' thirsty, i get it.
speaker1: and you'll be interviewing irene dansfeild...
speaker1: ...she rode on the maiden voyage with her late husband. okay, 90 seconds.

speaker1: ...but because of the fast response by our local fire fighters, the toxic chemicals were cleaned up without incident. susan. 
speaker2: bruce nolan is standing by at niagara falls with a report on the maid of the mist sightseeing boat, but before we go live to bruce, we have an announcement to make. as everyone knows, after 33 years, our beloved pete fineman is retiring.
speaker2: pete's shoes are virtually impossible to fill, but the show must go on. and we could think of no one better than our very own evan baxter.

speaker1: congratulations, evan. looks like we'll be sitting side by side from now on. 
speaker2: thanks, susan. i ' m thrilled and honored. like you said, no one can replace the great pete fineman, but i'll do my best. i have to say i am so proud to be a part of our local community. of buffalo. i think a great city is a lot like a great recipe really. put in some hard working citizens, add some care givers, maybe a few nuts...
speaker2: all sprinkled with the strength and love of our good families, that ultimately creates a sweet place to live. thank you.
speaker1: wow. that was amazing. and now let's go live to wacky bruce nolan out at niagara falls.

speaker1: talk honey, talk. 
speaker2: what's going on?

speaker1: we've got a walt disney. 
speaker2: frozen solid.
speaker3: he may not have audio. check his feed, have susan cover.
speaker4: we may be having a bit of technical difficulty...

speaker1: feed's good, jack. 
speaker2: come on, bruce, talk damn-it...

speaker1: first off, "i want to add another congratulations to evan baxter. it's good to see what someone with real talent can accomplish when great opportunities are given to him instead of me. anyway, i'm here, i believe with katherine hepburn's mom. tell me, why did you toss the blue "heart of the ocean" jewel over the railing of titanic? 
speaker1: did you feel guilty at all letting leonardo decaprio freeze, while you were safe floating on the big door? do you think he would have survived if you had taken turns, or were you too afraid to freeze your big fat off?
speaker2: did i just hear..?
speaker1: well, i guess that's the way life works, isn't it? some people are drenched, freezing to death, on a stupid boat, with a stupid umbrella... while others who aren't fit to kiss my willy, are sitting in a nice, comfy news room, sucking up all the glory111

speaker1: this isn't happening. this isn't happening... 
speaker2: now, lets speak to the owner. come on in here, bill.
speaker2: bill, you.'ve been running the maid of the mist for 23 years. tell me, why do you think i didn't get the anchor job?
speaker3: hey, man, i don't want any--
speaker2: do you think it's my hair? maybe my teeth aren't white enough? or like the great falls, is the bedrock of my life slowly erroding underneath me. erroding. erroooding.

speaker1: alright, cut the feed! cut to black if you have to. 
speaker2: i'm on it.

speaker1: hey, come on guys. what are you doin'? just leave him alone. 
speaker1: yeah, you'd better keep walkin'.
speaker1: b-e-a-utiful.

speaker1: thank you're alright. 
speaker2: yeah. let's thank thanks for everything, lord. i am so honored that my horrible demise is a part of your loving and mysterious plan.
speaker1: bruce, don't talk like that.
speaker2: oh, don't worry, he's not listening. if he is he doesn't care. have you seen the news lately? we got gangs, we got drugs, we got corruption. what kind of lets that happen? every time we cure a disease he comes up with a new one! yeah, is this the lab? yeah, it's they've just come up with a treatment for syphilis down there. i think it's time to release the tainted monkey. oh, and there's a guy in ohio who's praying for strength and wisdom, blind him and cut off his legs.
speaker1: so is torturing us?
speaker2: think about it, grace. is all- powerful . he could fix everything in five minutes if he wanted to.

speaker1: bruce but he doesn't want to. he doesn't like me. 
speaker2: oh, perfect! but you're aim isn't so good, i'm over herel
speaker3: bruce, please. this isn't his fault.
speaker2: of course not. it's part of the mysterious plan.
speaker3: honey, you're mad right now. it's understandable. and what evan did was slimy and wrong. but your job doesn't matter to me. you matter to me. you could've really been hurt. i'm just glad you're okay.
speaker2: okay? news flash: i'm not okayi and i'm not okay with the fact that you think everything is okay. i'm not okay with a mediocre job. i'm not okay with a mediocre apartment. i'm not okay with a mediocre life!
speaker3: is that what you have, bruce? a mediocre life? well, i'm sorry for being a piece in your mediocre puzzle.
speaker2: terrific. i'm drowning and you throw me a brick!

speaker1: okay, you want me to talk to you? then talk back. tell me what's going on? what should i do? give me a sign... 
speaker1: i'm right here. speak to me.

speaker1: all i need is some guidance. please send me a signal. 
speaker1: oh well, i guess you don't care.
speaker1: okay, we'll do it your way. lord, i need a miracle. please help me.

speaker1: okay, if that's the way you want it. the gloves are off, pal! let me see a little wrath! smite me oh mighty smiteri what, no pestilence no boils? come on, you got me on the ropes, don't you want to finish me off?! you're the one who should be fired! the only one around here not doing his job is you! what are we, you're little pet project? a hobby you tinker with now and again? answer me. answer me!!! 
speaker1: sorry, don't know you, wouldn't call you if i did.

speaker1: denied that promotion at work? is life unfair? everywhere you turn is there someone less talented than you reaping all the benefits ? is your name bruce? then do we have the job for you. we're located at 77256 23rd street... 
speaker1: so come on down, or we'll just keep beepin' ya.

speaker1: pers onnel rm. 7 ac coun ting rm. 7 security rm . 7 creativ e rm. 7 
speaker2: you're looking for room 7.
speaker3: want me to even those up for you?

speaker1: how would i get to room 7? 
speaker2: that'd be on the seventh floor.
speaker1: what about the elevator?
speaker2: out of order.
speaker2: you mind giving me a hand with this floor?
speaker1: what? yeah, i mind.

speaker1: excuse me. hello. i'm, ah, looking for whoever runs this joint... 
speaker2: be right with y.a, just fixin' a light. tell me if it's working?
speaker1: yep, seems to be. kinda bright, though.

speaker1: yeah, it is for most people. they spend their lives in the dark... 
speaker2: . . . thinkin' they can hide from me.
speaker3: oh, the elevator's broken, huh?
speaker2: yeah, but i'll get around to it.
speaker3: you installed a clapper?
speaker2: nope. catchy jingle, though.

speaker1: you can't get it out of your head. 
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker3: okay, but the boss'11 be right out.
speaker3: you must be bruce. i've been expecting you.
speaker2: oh, this is hilarious. so you're the boss and the electrician and the janitor.

speaker1: nothin' wrong with rollin' up your sleeves, son. people underestimate the benefits of good 'ol manual labor. there's freedom in it. happiest people in the world stink like at the end of the day. 
speaker1: your father knew that. he was a good welder.
speaker2: how do you know my father? and how did you get my pager number?
speaker1: oh, i know a lot about you bruce. pretty much everything there is to know. everything you've ever said, done or thought about doin', is right there in that file cabinet.
speaker2: wow, a whole drawer. just for me?
speaker1: it's your life.
speaker1: now this last entry was a little disturbing.
speaker1: thanks for everything, lord.

speaker1: janitor i am so honored that my horrible demise is a part of your loving and mysterious plan.. the gloves are off, pal.. smite me oh mighty smiter. i'm not much for blaspheming but that one made me laugh. oh, and let's not forget "what kind of a would let this happen? i mean, have you seen then news lately?" bruce stands, dazed. â· 
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: i'm the creator of the heavens and the earth. i'm the alpha and omega.
speaker2: sorry, it's not ringing a bell.
speaker4: i'm bruce.
speaker2: oh, you're well that explains everything1 that's how you know everything about me. that's how you got up to the seventh floor so quickly. well, it's really nice to meet you. thanks for the grand canyon and, ah, good luck with the apocalypse.
speaker2: okay, i don't know how you're doing that, but i really gotta go. this place is obviously rigged in some way. we're on some freaky hidden camera show. ...for which i will not sign a release, by the way! but you know what, i'd be a little more impressed if you didn't use the cheesy file cabinet illusion.

speaker1: bruce everyone with a brain in their head would know that the drawer is being â· fed through the wall from behind-- bruce pulls the file cabinet from the wall, sees it has a normal back. 
speaker2: okay. that's good. that's a good one.
speaker2: okay, how many fingers am i holding out?
speaker3: three.
speaker3: two.
speaker3: four. nine. six. eight. one...
speaker2: okay, how about now.
speaker3: seven.
speaker4: ah hal

speaker1: you've been doing a lot of complaining about me, bruce. and quite frankly, i'm tired of it... 
speaker2: you stay away from me! i don't know what your doing. but whatever you're doing is probably actionable!
speaker1: well, that's not very neighborly. i brought you here to offer you a job.
speaker2: job? wh at job?
speaker1: my job. you think you can do it better, so here's your chance. when you leave this building you will be endowed with all my powers.
speaker2: sure, whatever you say, pal.
speaker1: all the power of
speaker2: okay, that did not happen.

speaker1: i'm having a breakdown. that's what it is. just a normal, everyday psychotic episode, brought on by tumor or brain lesion... 
speaker1: come on, starti the car instantly starts.
speaker1: well, that was lucky.

speaker1: hey mario, did you get that box of dressing i sent you? 
speaker2: si, dovete venire sopra per il pranzo un certo tempo.
speaker3: vete l ve tel

speaker1: it isn't real, it isn't real, it isn't real... 
speaker1: oh hi, ah, coffee please.

speaker1: we've got a special on soup today. 
speaker2: no, that's okay.
speaker1: it's tomato.
speaker2: alright, okay.
speaker2: excuse me i need a spoooo...
speaker2: that's alright, i found one.
speaker1: i lie to my sister.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: and i'm sleeping with my best friend's husband. i know he's just using me but.. i'm just so tired of being alone. i don't know why i'm telling you all this. just seems like you'd understand.
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: havin' fun? 
speaker2: you- he- thy...
speaker1: let's take a walk.

speaker1: okay, let me explain the rules. 
speaker2: rules ?
speaker1: yeah, you left in such a rush i didn't get a chance to explain.
speaker2: well the two extra fingers freaked me out a little bit.
speaker1: i figured that would get your attention.. i did the same thing to ghandi, he couldn't eat for three weeks. now, here's the deal. you have all my power. use it any way you choose. there are only two rules. you can't tell anyone you're believe me you don't want that kind of attention. and you can't mess with free will.
speaker2: uh huh. can i-ask why?
speaker2: this is amazing.
speaker1: oh, speaking of amazing...

speaker1: i'll be seein' ya. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: i'm taking a vacation.
speaker2: can't take a vacation. can he?
speaker1: ever hear of the dark ages? besides, i'm covered. you can fix everything in five minutes if you want to, right?

speaker1: yeah, she should marry somebody famous, take the focus off. 
speaker1: we would have heard it ring.
speaker2: i know. it's just that he usually calls during the day.
speaker1: he just needs to blow off some steam, he'll be fine.
speaker2: i hope so. i've never seen him that mad. an d i lashed back--
speaker1: wow, you lashed? you never lash.
speaker2: i feel bad for him. he's wanted anchor for so long.
speaker1: well, i've been praying to win the lottery for fifteen years, but it's not going to happen. you know, it's not all about money.
speaker3: that'll be four hundred and twenty- seven, eighty.-
speaker1: what?!
speaker1: zoe.

speaker1: debbie hang on, i might need you to un- check a few things. 
speaker2: come on, lady.
speaker3: hey, everybody back-off i zoe laughs, enjoying the commotion.
speaker4: listen, i better get back. i want to be there for him.
speaker3: you're a saint, grace.
speaker4: what can i say, i love him. and if i know bruce, he's out there wandering around with the weight of the world on his shoulders.

speaker1: and he saw that it was good. 
speaker1: b-e-a-utifull

speaker1: hey guys, remember me? 
speaker2: oh look, it's the hero.
speaker3: hungry for another can of whoop- ass?
speaker4: your stereo sounds great in my car, man.
speaker1: look, i don't want to fight you guys. so as soon as you apologize, i'll be on my way.
speaker2: oh, yeah. i'll apologize... the day a monkey climbs out of my
speaker1: what a coincidence. that's today.
speaker5: did that come out of your butt, man?
speaker1: now i'm going to have to teach the rest of you guys a lesson.

speaker1: yeah, you and whose army? 
speaker2: just me... and me...
speaker2: and me, and me, and me, me, me, me, me and me and me.

speaker1: let's get out of here, manl 
speaker2: okay guys, ba yal
speaker2: i'll take it from here.

speaker1: back home for you, little one. 
speaker2: noi nooooo1

speaker1: what if was one of us. . . just a slob like one of us... just a stranger on a bus... trying to make his way. . . 
speaker1: ...home.
speaker2: oh, my
speaker1: you can call me bruce.
speaker2: where have you been? you're so...happy.
speaker1: who wouldn't be on a night like this? for you.
speaker2: these are amazing. what are they?
speaker1: it's a totally new breed. a cross pollination between tulips and daisies. i call them todayzees.
speaker2: todayzees? okay...

speaker1: nothing of this world. why? 
speaker2: what do you mean, why? last night you weren't exactly happy with life.
speaker1: last night, i was only human.

speaker1: we shouldn't waste it. 
speaker1: bedroom.
speaker2: five minutes.

speaker1: i'11 be out in a minute. 
speaker2: don't rush yourself. sometimes anticipation can heighten the pleasure.
speaker2: it's a funny thing about, pleasure.
speaker2: it can be extremely pleasurable.
speaker1: oh, oh. oh my...

speaker1: in international news, japanese relief workers are staging a desperate effort to rescue hundreds of people stranded by a freak tidal wave that hit kitamoto city... 
speaker1: scientists say the tsunami may have been caused by what they're describing as "unusual lunar activity." more on this, as it develops. . .

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: good morning. cooked you grilled cheese.
speaker1: oo, my favey.
speaker2: last night was just...
speaker1: heavenly?
speaker2: mmm hmm.
speaker2: it's funny, but when i woke up this morning, it felt like my were bigger.
speaker2: do they look bigger to you?
speaker1: huh? ah, no, they, ah, look the same to me.

speaker1: they're definitely bigger. they feel huge to me. 
speaker2: you got me. probably just a hormonal thing. well, enjoy your breakfast, i've gotta run.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: to get my job back.

speaker1: wow, nice car man. 
speaker2: well, it gets me from a to b.

speaker1: hey, channel seven, right? you're the guy that went crazy. 
speaker2: yeah, i had a bad day. but things are lookin' up.
speaker1: what are you doin' here?
speaker2: just lookin' for a story.
speaker1: well, this pond's fished out.

speaker1: i don't know. my instinct tells me there's something more. 
speaker2: well, go with that. it's served you well in the past, right?
speaker3: hey, hank found something1
speaker4: we got a bodyi
speaker2: get the camera, now!

speaker1: since the disapearence of teamster president jimmy hoffa in the nineteen sixties, his whereabouts have remained one of this country's great unsolved mysteries. that is until just moments ago, when during a routine training session, a police dog named hank sniffed his way right into the history books. as you can see behind us, the body is being carefully exhumed and will be transported to a hospital facility where dna testing will confirm the identity. that, of course, only a formality as in a bizarre twist, the body was found buried with a birth certificate and complete set of dental records. sort of a two-in-one for hank today, as moments later, he busted a local news camera crew with four kilo's of marijuana. 
speaker2: i've never seen it before, i swear i

speaker1: nice job, bruce...way to go, buddy...go get 'em, bruce, etc. 
speaker2: hi, bruce.
speaker3: oh, susan.. hi.
speaker2: good work, i'm impressed.
speaker4: hey, br uce . n ice job , m an. wa sn' t the same without you around here, pal. i hear jack wants to see you.
speaker3: that's the word.
speaker4: you're going to need your energy in there. can i interest you in a donut?
speaker3: no, thank you, i'm not hungry.
speaker4: coffee?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: fiber grain bar with bee pollen and spiralina?
speaker3: i'm really not interested.

speaker1: yeah, i don't blame 'ya, they taste like grass. 
speaker1: tell you what? i wasn't going to break it open until lunch time, but i made a batch of rhubarb that you have got to try.
speaker2: bobby, i--
speaker1: come on, it's my mother's recipe she's practically cripple... bobby forces a ladle of rhubarb out at bruce.
speaker2: no, i really- no...
speaker1: open up, that's it, here comes the news chopper...
speaker2: no, bobby.. bobby n01 i said i didn't want anything. you...
speaker3: hi, bobby. is there any of that split pea soup left?

speaker1: he sees bruce enter, immediately perks up. 
speaker2: the re he i sl ho ff al h a i w h a t a r e the odds of that?
speaker3: ha! what are the odds?
speaker2: look, i'll be straight. we want you back, bruce. i want to tell you, it wasn't my decision to let you go. when the big guy gives the order, i gotta...
speaker3: no harm no foul, jack. i needed some time off to reassess my goals and get in touch with my true self.
speaker2: you did that in a day?
speaker3: imagine what i can do with seven.
speaker2: i haven't been the best father in the world.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker2: i cur se a lo t. i c hea t on my ta xe s. my w ife u se d t o mak e my kids call me, when she was alive... ...now, i go to strip clubs, and dri nk a ll nig ht. bu t at le ast their open unt il four. w hat are you doing tonight?
speaker3: oh, i'm busy doing...things.

speaker1: yeah, i gotcha. it feels good to get that out. thank you. 
speaker1: look, it's not in my power to give you a nchor, but as far as field repor ting goes, if you're looking for a bump.
speaker2: jack, don't worry about that. just give me a camera and a crew and i'll give you the news.

speaker1: good evening and welcome to eyewitness news at six. i'm susan ortega. 
speaker2: and i'm evan baxter. and here's what's making news...
speaker2: a potential scandal with the buffalo p.d. surfaced today when...
speaker2: ...the mayor demanded that the chief of police issue... ...uh-hum, that the chief of police...

speaker1: what the is that? 
speaker2: i'm sorry. there seems to be something.
speaker3: looks like my new co-anchor may need a glass of water.
speaker2: ah, there we go. sorry about that. the prime minister of sweden visited washington today as my little tiny moved to france-
speaker4: what did he just say? check the prompter.
speaker5: it's fine.
speaker4: well, signal for him to keep going.

speaker1: the white house reception committee greeted the prime rib roast minister and i do the cha cha like a sissy girl... i lika do da cha cha... 
speaker1: sorry, we're having a few technical difficulties, here... in other n-n-n-n....n-n-n-n...
speaker2: somebody get some napkins. dallas, help me.
speaker3: i'm not touching hinu i mean, i'm not really qualified.
speaker2: his hair's on fire!
speaker4: you know, he does have a certain pizazz about him.

speaker1: my secret is i let the jalapeno's marinade in a spicy sauce for over 24 hours before i-- 
speaker2: hold that thought, hazel! it seems some type of meteor or asteroid has, by chance, hit the earth right behind the mark twain chili cook off. . .
speaker2: . . . so remember, it's sky diving season at old pete's airfield. this is bruce nolan.. my rip cord appears to be a bit stuck.

speaker1: this is a very unfortunate turn of events. i'm heading toward the earth at a very precarious speed... 
speaker2: he's okay...what's that?...it's bigfoot!...bigfoot broke his fall!. . .
speaker1: ah ha! you are real!

speaker1: in the past, zoo officials have been unable to get these panda's to mate, but that doesn't seem to be a problem today. 
speaker1: and the mood seems to be catching o. . . n

speaker1: his stories are all over town... 
speaker2: ...from unearthing jimmy hoffa...
speaker3: ...to an asteroid crashing to earth. bruce nolan is rapidly becoming known as. . .

speaker1: so this is what success buys you. 
speaker2: i guess. i feel like a human taquito.
speaker1: well, thank mr. exclusive for me. he's on a quite a roll. what'd he do make a deal with the devil?
speaker2: and he's taking me out tonight to dinner at chez l'amour.
speaker1: well, la-ti-da. mike's idea of a romantic evening is chez sizzler.
speaker1: what does this do again?
speaker3: ests para su grasa.
speaker1: grasa? doesn't that mean fat?

speaker1: afraid so. 
speaker1: so, bruce said and i quote: "prepare yourself for an amazing evening that will change our lives forever." margarita reaches debbie's waist and yanks tightly.
speaker2: good - you wouldn't want to leave any spare oxygen in there. wait a second, you don't think he's going to propose, do you?
speaker1: i don't think anything.
speaker2: you do. you think he's going to propose.
speaker1: well, he's always said when he gets his career together, you know... and his career is more than together. i mean, come on, chez l'amour. change our lives...
speaker2: i don't know, hun. i mean, i like bruce but that man's priority list is him, him, him, then him some more and then you.
speaker1: well, he just might surprise you.
speaker2: that's what i'm worried about. careful, you missed a spot of free flowing circulation.

speaker1: that'd do it. 
speaker1: let's see, how do i--
speaker2: lesbianas1 grace and debbie crack up harder.
speaker1: hey, i'll take that over fat...
speaker2: no sexo, no sexol grace and debbie can't stop laughing.

speaker1: very good. if you run out just bring me some water, i'll take it from there. 
speaker2: should we ask for a more private table?

speaker1: huh? oh, no this is fine right here. 
speaker1: i was going to wait until after the meal, but i think it's going to just bust out of me if i don't do it now.
speaker1: you ready?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: i got anchor.
speaker1: evidently, they're having problems with evan. he's finishing up the week and i go live monday.
speaker2: that's great, honey. congratulations. wow. so that's what's tonight is about?
speaker1: well, yeah. grace, i got anchor. we got anchor!
speaker1: what's the matter?
speaker2: well, to be honest, i thought that maybe tonight, you-- the two cute girls interrupt, approach bruce.

speaker1: yep, it's me. 
speaker2: can we get a picture with you?
speaker1: well, sure. just one second, hun. fans. we better get used to this, huh?
speaker3: you have lipstick on your face.
speaker1: oh, thanks...
speaker3: bruce, we need to talk. i thought we had an understanding--
speaker1: wow. it's kind of loud in here.
speaker3: what are you talking about? it's not loud.

speaker1: geez... ----- - could you ~keep tt downl--- -- 
speaker2: bruce, this isn't funny.

speaker1: really something isn't it? 
speaker2: is this heaven?
speaker1: it's everest. you should try flipping on the discovery channel every now and then. well, i guess you can't now, being dead and all.
speaker2: i'm dead?i laughs.

speaker1: no, i'm just messing with you. 
speaker2: those voices...
speaker1: they're prayers, bruce. you keep ignoring them and they're going to build up on. you like that. you didn't think being was going to be all fun and games did you?
speaker2: prayers? those are prayers? why can't i understand them?
speaker1: you aren't listening, son. let's see, you've had my powers for over a week now and how many people have you helped?
speaker2: okay, so maybe i've righted a couple of the wrongs in my own life. i was going to get around to others. i can do both. i can help the world.
speaker1: the world? that wasn't the world, bruce. that was just buffalo, between commonwealth and 57th. didn't want to start you out with more than you can handle. now how you doing otherwise? personal life in good shape?
speaker2: yeah. everything is great.
speaker3: bruce? what are you doing out here?

speaker1: oh, ah, she can't... i just, ah, needed a little fresh air. 
speaker2: bruce, what is going on? the second i want to talk about us you run out on me.
speaker3: everything's great, huh?
speaker1: i wasn't running out on you...
speaker2: you know, i actually had the crazy idea that you were going to ask me to marry you tonight.
speaker3: now it's heating up.
speaker1: you are not helping. ...me at all here, grace.
speaker3: nice recovery.
speaker2: not helping you what?
speaker1: look hun, i want to talk about this. this just isn't a good time.

speaker1: when is it a good time? it's never a good time. 
speaker2: she's got a point.
speaker3: stay out of this.

speaker1: who are you talking to?! 
speaker2: oh, not now.
speaker3: you're going to have to answer those things, y'know.
speaker1: fin e. yo u kn ow wh at? i 'm go in g t o go home and if by some miracle it suddenly becomes a 'good time', you know where to find me. and speaking of time, you're running out of it.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: you want some friendly advice?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: okay...prayers. 
speaker1: okay, first off, this creepy whisper thing has got to go. organization and management. i need a system. something concrete... prayer files 1 let all prayers be organized into + files. bruce waves his hand---
speaker1: too b ulky. ah! praye r po st-it s!
speaker1: sloppy. ah!

speaker1: whoa. suddenly, grace bounds out of the bathroom. 
speaker2: okay, this is getting ridiculous i grace's are enormous! a healthy d-cup.
speaker2: i have to see a doctor. there's definitely something wrong with me.

speaker1: no. you look great. 
speaker2: i look like a i my whole body is changing.
speaker2: my back didn't used to arch like this.
speaker1: i think you look amazing.

speaker1: bruce, i feel like our relationship is becoming all about sex. 
speaker2: no it's not. come on, give me a
speaker2: hug.
speaker1: no, bruce. come on. she breaks away and sees the computer is on.
speaker1: what's that? what are you doing? bruce tries to cover.
speaker2: oh, ah. nothing. surfing the
speaker2: internet...for stories...
speaker1: is this why you didn't come to bed?
speaker2: no, ah...honey, you're going to be late.
speaker1: no, i'm not.
speaker1: oh my goshi how did i sleep this late? i've got to run. are you giving me a ride?
speaker2: don't need to.
speaker2: happy two months and four days before your birthday.

speaker1: y ou' re c ra zy . ca n we a ff ord t ha t? 
speaker2: i'll work it out. just trust me. bruce dangles the keys in front of her eyes.
speaker1: if you're trying to buy your way out of the hot water you're in, it's not working. . . well, it's working a little... bruce smiles.

speaker1: okay. let's start with something easy. find: sports...sabers. please make the sabers win the playoffs, good. please, please let the red wings beat the sabers. 
speaker1: yes to you, loyal sabers fan. and no to you. and your goalie has turrets.

speaker1: please let. me find a space. 
speaker2: knock, and the door shall be open. . . bruce makes a knocking motion and...

speaker1: i've got to find a better job...come on light, turn...god, i wish i were thinner... 
speaker2: promotion with 15% raise...it's green. . . donuts are now healthy...

speaker1: an, you can keep the cart if you like. 
speaker2: thanks. i've grown kind of attached to it.

speaker1: l ook! i'm back to no rmal. it was the wildest thing, i was worried, so i said a prayer and the next thing i know, i was completely healed. it was like a miracle. 
speaker2: that's great.
speaker1: so, you're taking me to lunch? th is i s ra re -- but wonderful.
speaker2: oh, i've got something better than lunch.
speaker1: oh, you'll never believe it.
speaker2: really?

speaker1: but get this, there were like 433 thousand other winners, so it only paid out 17 dollars. can you believe the odds of that? 
speaker2: bruce leads her out of the car.
speaker3: keep 'em closed...
speaker1: what is this?
speaker3: okay...open your eyes.
speaker1: wow. this is a bit overwhelming.
speaker3: i know, it's incredible. come on in, look.

speaker1: this place is hilarious. are you doing a story here? 
speaker2: no. guess again? grace turns to bruce confused.
speaker2: it's mine...ours.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: this is our new home. come on...
speaker1: this had to cost-- i can't even imagine how much this had to cost.
speaker2: 7 million. that was the asking, but i got a deal.
speaker1: wh-what am i missing here? you can't afford this. you're a reporter. buying cars is one t hing, but this-- bruce grabs a hold of grace.
speaker2: we'll have the money. listen to me closely. i'm getting anchor. then, i'm going to get spotted, offers will come flooding in to go national, and then you and i are moving to new york city to a place that will put this to shame. this has been my exact dream my whole life and it's finally going to happen. every step just how i pictured it.
speaker1: there's only one problem.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i hate it.

speaker1: what were you thinking? why didn't you talk to me about this? 
speaker2: i wanted to surprise you.
speaker1: mission accomplished.
speaker2: honestly, i thought you'd be a little more appreciative.
speaker1: appreciative of what? the fact that you didn't include me on a major life decision or that we now live in the sultan of bernai's house?
speaker2: like pearls to swine.
speaker1: what is that supposed to mean?
speaker2: let those with ears hear.
speaker1: what is happening to you? you're changing.
speaker2: exa ct ly. or th e bet te r. i' m not poor and s truggling . and mayb e that threatens you. i'm telling you, there are plenty of women who would love this place.
speaker1: yeah, and so would their pimps.
speaker2: i can't believe this. i did all this for us.
speaker1: us ? w hat us? yo u a lwa ys said wh en your career takes off we'd get married. what happened to that us?

speaker1: i want that. 
speaker2: 'that'. you can't even say the word.
speaker1: marriage, i want marriage, okay. it's just not a great time right now.
speaker2: not a great time. what is that, your mantra? this is never going to change. . .
speaker1: come on grace, lighten up. . tomorrow's saturday. the office is throwing me a party here, for getting anchor. let's enjoy the ride for a whi le. we're just starting to have some fun.
speaker2: no, you're just starting to have fun.
speaker2: and what in name is going on with that dogi?
speaker2: i'm going to have debbie pick me up.
speaker1: grace.
speaker2: i'm sorry, but i won't be attending your little pa rty tomorrow. and if you would like to see me after i will be at our home.

speaker1: she starts out. 
speaker2: oh, and that poor, struggling guy you talked about? i miss him.

speaker1: i'll drink to that! my tech stocks tripled in five days. 
speaker2: you seem taller.
speaker3: i am!
speaker4: my son pitched a no hitter!
speaker5: i lost 47 ibs on the krispy kreme diet.

speaker1: sam walks away, his tail between his legs. 
speaker2: there he is. . . the mani.. all hail our new anchor!i
speaker3: bless you. bless you.
speaker4: hey bruce, who do you like in the game tonight?
speaker3: put your money on the sabers. coach prays a lot.
speaker5: ah, mr. nolan, we're running out of hors doerves. i'm afraid we under- ordered, sir. and the people are hungry.
speaker3: what do you have left?
speaker5: only three chips and two shrimp.
speaker3: just take it around.

speaker1: speech! speech!! speech! 
speaker2: i ' d thank you all for coming, but the liquor is free so maybe you should thank me!
speaker2: and now let me tell you a story. there was a man who had two sons. the younger son took his inheritance and squandered his money on a life of and debauchery. i love that guy!!
speaker3: hey there.
speaker4: hi br uce. what are you d oing out here all alone?
speaker2: oh, ah, i was calling grace.
speaker4: yeah, i didn't see her in there. i love the new place, by the way. so how are you and grace doing?
speaker2: i don't know, we had a fight earlier. ever since i . . well, things are different now and...

speaker1: you're on fire bruce. some women can't handle fire. some can. 
speaker1: you know, i always had an instinct about you. i knew you were going to make something of yourself.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: there's something special about you bruce. i like special...
speaker2: look susan, i don't know, i--
speaker3: grace and debbie enter.
speaker4: so this is your new place, huh?
speaker5: cozy, don't you think? come on help me find him.
speaker4: you sure you want to do this?
speaker5: i don't know. it's his big night. i don't want to spoil it. i know . how much this means to him.

speaker1: oh, boy. 
speaker2: grace, i...
speaker3: . get the car, deb.
speaker1: right.
speaker2: grace, wait.
speaker2: grace, come on.
speaker3: here. i do n't w ant your car. i don't want your things. . . i don't want you.
speaker2: come on, don't say that. i was just calling y ou--
speaker3: and you thought susan's mouth was the phone?
speaker2: i didn't think you were coming-- i mean, i . . . i screwed up, okay.
speaker3: how about a boat, bruce?
speaker2: if that's what you want.

speaker1: yeah, a big boat and oh, maybe two bags of cash, you know, the ones with the big cartoon dollar signs on the front. then i'll be happy. because i'm just hollow inside. debbie's been right. all this time. i defended you, told her there was good in you. another side to you. well, i just saw that other side and i don't want anything to do with it. 
speaker2: grace, come on, don't do this.
speaker1: go back to your little co-anchor. or is that ho-anchor? i came back here to apologize. how stupid am i?
speaker2: you're the one that didn't like the new place!
speaker2: you can't walk out on me! i'm the alpha, lady! i'm the omega!
speaker2: i could make you stay!
speaker2: fine! i don't need you! i have everything i need. did you hear that?! i have everything!

speaker1: enjoying your party? yeah, nothing like spending time with some real frien ds. any s hrimp left ? 
speaker2: grace left me.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: she'll take me back. will she take me back?
speaker1: would you take you back?
speaker2: how do you make someone love you when you can't effect free will?
speaker1: welcome to my world, son. you come up with an answer to that one, you let me know.

speaker1: okay, surrender, surrender. 
speaker1: hi.

speaker1: hi.. 
speaker2: i, ah, have my first anchor tonight.
speaker1: that's great. i hope it goes well for you.
speaker2: i miss you. i just took the first step, shot myself out on the ledge, awaiting vulnerably your response.
speaker1: . . . i don't know what to say.
speaker2: how about you love me and you'll take me back.
speaker1: no, bruce.
speaker2: come on, what about all the signs?
speaker1: what? how do you know about that?
speaker2: would it help if i told you i acted like an ass?
speaker3: hey, you said ass.
speaker2: it's okay as long as you mean a donkey. i didn't add "hole." it's only bad when you say "ass-ho--

speaker1: alright, inside, martin. okay everyone, inside. 
speaker2: grace, please. none of this seems right without you. is that a glimmer of hope i see?
speaker1: i have to go... she starts off. . .
speaker2: wait.
speaker2: now how do you feel?
speaker1: ...are you out of your mind? have you been drinking?
speaker2: drin kin g? sur e. i'm dru nk wit h
speaker3: bruce raises both hands in full hexing fashion...

speaker1: hey11 that's my car!! 
speaker2: ha, nice wheels, huh?
speaker1: thou shalt not steal.
speaker1: car, show them the way out.
speaker1: what is wrong with the world?

speaker1: the world's gone mad. 
speaker1: oh, there you are. your big debut.
speaker2: you know what? i'm good. the show must go on.
speaker3: bruce, if i had any idea grace was going to be there last night...
speaker2: susan, you didn't do anything wrong. in fact, i found the moment rather pleasurable. susan shudders, tries to compose himself.
speaker3: oh, really. . . that's nice.
speaker1: okay, the sabers just won the stanley cup. it's getting pretty crazy out there. we're going to kick live to fred at the stadium. oh, and bruce, you won the pool again. exact score, dead on. twenty-three to one, who would have thought.

speaker1: bxa 
speaker2: this is it, you good?

speaker1: i'm susan ortega. 
speaker2: i'm bruce nolan and here's what's m ak i n g n e ws --
speaker3: what happened? what the happened?
speaker4: we lost the signal. it's another power surge.
speaker3: aw, geez. ever since that asteroid hit.
speaker4: we're back.
speaker1: we apologize for the interruption, and now back to the news. bruce. . .
speaker2: thank you, susan-- susan gets a feed in her earpiece.

speaker1: thank's susan. i'm here with coach tucker who has lead the sabers to their first championship in 22 years... 
speaker1: tell me coach...

speaker1: what the hell? 
speaker2: we'll get back to the saber victory in just a moment. in other news-- again, static... jack tosses his headset.
speaker1: oh, for the love of godl what is it now?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: partying, man. wooooll!! sabers i!
speaker1: but your team wonl
speaker3: stay down.
speaker1: where are the other officers?
speaker3: what other officers? half the force just retired. said their "ship came in." you better get home pal. i t's dangerous out here.

speaker1: they're all out of control. i don't know what to do. 
speaker2: you mind giving me a hand with this floor first?

speaker1: bruce's sleeves rolled up, mopping next to 
speaker2: "poor man wanna be rich, rich man wanna be king, king's disatisfied 'cause he rules everything..."

speaker1: springsteen. i like a little boss in my head while i'm workin'... they finish up. looks back at the sparkling floor, satisfied. 
speaker2: there we go. wonderful thing. no matter how filthy something gets, it can always be cleaned right up.
speaker3: what happened? i gave everyone what they wanted.
speaker2: since when does anyone have a clue about what they want?
speaker2: remember ginnie?
speaker2: ginnie thought she lost her beauty when she got older. i'm trying to convince her otherwise.
speaker2: ah yes, filbert. brilliant young man. he was going to be a great poet.

speaker1: the soul of his work would have been built out of his hardships. he would have touched millions. but now he's headed for a career as a professional wrestler. clicks, changing the environment into a condo. we see a lonely woman sitting depressed, rocking in a chair. 
speaker2: ester maha. i love ester. ester was bankrupt. she was going to have to eat her pride and call her sister. would've got the two of them together again. instead, she bought a condo in florida.
speaker2: clicks the remote again...

speaker1: scientists believe last weeks asteroid may have knocked the earth off it's access resulting in the rapid acceleration of the melting of the polar caps. . . 
speaker2: and more tidal wave activity reported and resulting in devastating floods all tied to last weeks abnormal lunar activity... click. we see footage of decimated crops.
speaker2: that swarm of locusts spotted in buffalo has multiplied, wreaking havoc on local agricultural crops. food and produce prices are expected to skyrocket.

speaker1: now what kind of a let's that happen? clicks the images off. 
speaker1: not as easy as it looks, is it? this business.
speaker2: so what do i do?
speaker1: you want some advice?
speaker2: yes. smiles, starts to walk away...
speaker1: everybody wants a miracle, bruce. want me to do everything for 'em. but what they don't understand is, they're the one's holding the power.
speaker2: wait. where are you going?
speaker1: this is good-bye, bruce. you've learned a lot. i think you should be able to handle things now.
speaker2: what if i have a question? what if i need you?

speaker1: "pain". by filbert davis. 
speaker2: come on, sam. let's do this the right way... oh, alright...
speaker2: that's not normal you know.

speaker1: do you have these in red? 
speaker2: okay bobby, it's time to come back.

speaker1: you're probably here to gloat over the anchor position. go ahead, i'm sure i deserve it. 
speaker2: you know, evan. i've been a real prick.
speaker2: you were born to anchor. i'm not taking the position. oh, and i never really congratulated you on getting the job in the first place. congratulations, evan.

speaker1: in the financial world, things are settling back to normal in what analysts are calling a fluke market fluctuation... 
speaker2: you made the right choice, jack.

speaker1: so what about you? what will you do? 
speaker2: with your permission, i think i'll go out there and make the people laugh. to quote a friend, "god knows we could use it." jack smiles.
speaker1: permission granted.
speaker2: oh, are you hungry? i know a place that makes a mean tomato soup.

speaker1: coffee, gentlemen? 
speaker2: jack. this is a friend of mine, cindy. cindy this is jack.

speaker1: you can do it, sam. without the carpet. come on. 
speaker2: looks like your rain dance worked.
speaker1: debbie. hey. you know, i never got to apologize for--
speaker2: i didn't really come to chat, i came for grace's things.

speaker1: they're full... you did all this? 
speaker1: you really hurt her, you know.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: you know what i do before i go to sleep every night? i tuck my kids in bed, i eat a scoop of ice cream and watch conan.

speaker1: the woman does pray a lot. 
speaker1: she still loves me, buddy.

speaker1: please i still love him... 
speaker1: ...but i don't want to love him anymore. please help me to forget. i don't want to hurt anymore. i want to forget.

speaker1: am i...? 
speaker2: you can't expect to kneel down in the middle of a highway and live to talk about it.
speaker1: but why? why now?
speaker2: i work in mysterious ways, son.
speaker1: you knew it all along. you knew if i got everything i wanted, i would ruin my life.
speaker1: so i'm dead... okay. if this is what you want. okay, okay...
speaker2: go ahead, use 'em.
speaker1: alright... i've learned that i don't know as much i thought i did...
speaker2: boy, you can say that again.
speaker1: hey, i'm praying here.

speaker1: sorry, go. 
speaker2: if i could have just one thing in the world. it would be for grace to live a happy, joyful life. and that she finds someone... ...that she finds someone that will treat her with the love and respect that she so deserves.
speaker1: now that is a prayer. well, i better get on that one. see ya, bruce.
speaker3: he's back!
speaker4: bp 40 over 110 and rising.
speaker5: - bruce? can you hear me? we almost lost you there.
speaker5: you lost a lot of blood. it wasn't easy to find a match - you're a very rare blood type.

speaker1: a/b positive... 
speaker2: you should thank for donors. we don't have a lot of that type on hand.
speaker3: there's your angel now.

speaker1: i hear that all of this winds up in a warehouse somewhere. but you know me, i'm a sucker for this stuff. the doctors give grace the nod to enter as they go, leaving the two of them alone. grace tentatively approaches. 
speaker1: i don't even know what i'm doing here. but... when i heard that you'd been in an accident and that you might not make it. . .
speaker2: hey, i'm okay.
speaker1: does it hurt?
speaker2: only when i talk., and smile... and y'know, exist in general.

speaker1: oh my gosh, you still have those? 
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: nothing. it's just really nice to see you.

speaker1: you know, french toast was invented by tavern owner, joseph french, who had a poor knowledge of grammar, and did not know how to use the possessive apostrophe, so he called it french toast instead of french's toast... 
speaker2: this is bruce nolan at buffalo's first annual "be the miracle" blood drive. remember, the life you save may be mine, so hurry down. i had a close call and, well, can you imagine what life would have been like without me?

speaker1: in honor of this event, the kowolski brothers have baked a one- of-a-kind, creation. 
speaker1: sure, a little creepy and a shameless plug, but we love 'em. mmm, good needle. remember, that's kowolski's bakery. the bakery that gets more air time than a high speed chase. everyone laughs. the kowolski brothers beam.

speaker1: no, this is nothing. in fact, this is the second time i've given blood this week. for those of you who haven't heard, i ' d like you to meet the soon to be mrs. exclusive. 
speaker1: this is bruce nolan reporting for eyewitness news.
speaker1: so, what'd you think?
speaker2: i don't know, i thought it was very pleasurable. bruce smiles, they kiss...

