speaker1: what's your name girl? 
speaker1: what's your name? precious still blushing, looks on the ground.

speaker1: class, would you please turn to page 122 ...class! 122! 
speaker2: i like maff but i don't say nuffin' -don't open my book even. just sit there. the giggling boys continue their shenanigans.
speaker1: boys?
speaker1: page 122 please.
speaker2: everyday i tell myself something gonna happen, like i'm gonna break through or somebody gonna break through to me -i'm gonna learn, catch up, be normal, sit in the front ...someday.
speaker1: today we are going to review monday's assignment. would anyone like to begin?

speaker1: boys! ! ! 
speaker2: i like mr. wicher. i pretend he my husband and we live in weschesser, whereever that is. i can see by his eyes mr. wicher like me too. i wish i could tell him all the pages in my book look the same to me, but i can't..
speaker3: excuse you?!
speaker4: nobody 'spect us to learn nuffin no way. now i'm tryin' to have a conversation back here if you don't mind mr. bitcher, i mean, mr. wicher. the boys fallout slapping hands.
speaker1: i want to see you boys after class.
speaker5: sorry mr. wicher but you ain't my type. grow some
speaker1: just be quiet.
speaker2: i feels sorry for mr. wicher. he do his best but he ain't got no voice. he scared too. i feels sorry for him.

speaker1: shut up motherfuckers, i'm trying to learn something! hard enuff wiffout you stupid clowns carryin' on! 
speaker2: ...sorry precious.
speaker3: we cool.
speaker1: stupid asses... go on 'bout cha lesson mr. wicher. they ain' gonna give you no more trouble today.
speaker1: i'm like the polices for mr. wicher. tha's why i can't be late to maff.

speaker1: now dis ... 
speaker2: claireece ...

speaker1: what this want? claireece ... only i hate call me claireece. 
speaker1: you gonna be okay mr. wicher?

speaker1: are you pregnant? you're sixteen, still in junior high school and pregnant with your second child. correct claireece? claireece are you pregnant again? 
speaker1: do you have any thoughts about your situation?

speaker1: claireece? 
speaker1: claireece, i'm talking to you.
speaker1: claireece?!
speaker2: am i in trouble?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: am i in trouble?
speaker1: ...no.
speaker2: then i don't want to miss no more of maff class.
speaker1: sit down claireece.
speaker1: you know what i think? i think we should have a parent-teacher conference - me, you and your mom.
speaker2: my muver is busy.
speaker1: well maybe i could arrange to come to your house.

speaker1: my muver wouldn't like that. 
speaker2: well then claireece, i'm afraid i'm going to have to suspend you.
speaker1: for what?
speaker2: you're pregnant.
speaker1: that ain't fair. i ain' done nuffin! i doose my work. i ain' in no trouble. my grades is good...
speaker2: your attitude is one of total uncooperation and that won't help a thing...

speaker1: now according to our records, your mother also looks after the child. 
speaker2: no kids on her pictures. maybe she jealous. i still don't say nuffin.
speaker1: are you in contact with the father? is he at all involved in your child's care?

speaker1: fine! if that's the way you wanna play it, we can do this all day. 
speaker2: thas when i knew i'd never get back to maff class ...lawd i hate this hoe.

speaker1: you get my cigarettes? 
speaker2: no mama, i dropped some of my thangs on the way to school.

speaker1: ...i ain' gon' say it again. 
speaker1: tell them to stop ringing my bell.

speaker1: no one ever ring the bell but crack addicts. i hates crack addicts. give the ghetto a bad name. 
speaker1: stop ringing the goddam buzzer precious heads back to the dishes until ... annnt! the buzzer again.
speaker1: stop ringing the goddam buzzer.

speaker1: stop it! 
speaker2: press listen stupid.
speaker3: it's sondra lichenstein for claireece and ms. mary johnston.
speaker2: who that precious?
speaker1: white from school.

speaker1: lord, where is crack addicts when you need 'em... 
speaker2: what she want?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: ask her stupid.
speaker1: what you want?
speaker3: i want to talk to you about your education.
speaker2: eighty-six that

speaker1: git outa here mrs. lichenstein 'fore i kick your ass. 
speaker2: claireece i am so sorry about today. i only want to help you. i ...mr. wicher says you're one of his best students and that you have an aptitude for math -or at least potential. i've called a mrs. mcknight at higher education alternative / each one teach one. it's an alternative school. claireece, are you listening?
speaker2: claireece, did you hear me?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i've called ms. mcknight at each one teach one. it's located on the nineteenth floor of the hotel theresa on 125th street. that's not too far from here.
speaker1: i know where that is.

speaker1:  
speaker2: the phone number is 555-0831. i told them about you. call or drop in, nineteenth floor.
speaker1: i heard you the first time.
speaker2: listen claireece... if you go down tomorrow.... look, they have just started their semester. you may be a day or 2 late... give it a try.

speaker1: i don't know what an alternative school is but i feel i want to know... 
speaker1: my heart is all warm...mr. wicher say i'm a good student.

speaker1: where you going? 
speaker1: you hear me talking to you?! precious leaves slamming the door behind her.

speaker1: precious when we gon' play? 
speaker2: ain' you s'posed to be in school?
speaker1: you said we was gon' play.
speaker2: see, thas jus exackly why we ain' gon' be playin'. i never said nuffin like it.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: cause you a mess. look at ya' -no style, no friends, no mama, no daddy.
speaker1: so?! i ain' the only one.
speaker2: what you say?!
speaker1: ...nuffin.
speaker2: thas what i thought.
speaker1: i check in wif you tomorrow precious.
speaker2: you do that.

speaker1: i'm lookin' up. lookin' out for a piano to fall, a desk, couch, tv, mama maybe? always somethin' in the way. alternative. i'm gon' see all about it. 
speaker2: watch where you goin' orca!
speaker1: then my mind come back down to earf.
speaker3: shut up fool, she gon' eat you.
speaker1: boyz always been little things that laff and grab they selves -cept for when i's real big and pregnant wif my first baby. then boyz don't say nuffin. they stand out the way real quiet like i'm queen of england...
speaker1: still, i wonder...what could i wear that boyz don't laff?
speaker1: i always be fallin like that when my mind be wanderin. mama say i gonna fall to my death one day.

speaker1: why do you say that when you don't mean it trey? i'm not playing with you and i know that wasn't your sister neither....because you don't have one...fine. yeah, whatever. 
speaker2: this the alternative?
speaker1: the what?
speaker2: this the alternative?
speaker1: what exactly are you looking for?
speaker2: well what is this here?
speaker1: this is higher education alternative / each one teach one.
speaker2: i'm looking for alternative school.
speaker1: this is an alternative school.
speaker2: what alternative is?
speaker1: what are you asking me?

speaker1: alternative. the lady from my other school tell me to come here to hotel theresa, nineteenth floor, it's "alternative" school. 
speaker2: each one teach one is an alternative school and an alternative school is like a choice, a different way to do something.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: you need your discharge papers from your old school saying they have formally discharged you or we can't allow you in the program.
speaker1: i got kicked out 'cause i was pregnant.
speaker2: you still need formal discharge papers or we can't let you in. it's the law.
speaker1: mrs. lichenstein ain' say all that.
speaker2: oh you're the one mrs. lichenstein called about.
speaker1: what she say?
speaker2: are you claireece p. jones?
speaker1: thas me.
speaker2: well the principal at i.s. 111 already sent your discharge papers and stuff over.

speaker1: what stuff? 
speaker2: your academic record.
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker1: i thought this was new start. file and tesses chase me to the grave.
speaker2: claireece?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: we had to have certain information before we could accept you into the program. so really, their sending your records over was just a way of speeding things up for you.
speaker1: can i start today?
speaker2: yup. the only other thing we need right now is income verification.
speaker1: no...my muver get afdc for me and my daughter.
speaker2: oh, you've had amniocentesis?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you said your mother has custody of you and your daughter?

speaker1: not this baby! i got another one 'sides this coming. 
speaker2: oh i see. your mother has custody of you and your daughter so you're on her budget.
speaker2: okay, well i need a copy of your mother's budget and a current phone or utilities bill, okay?
speaker1: i got to go get all that now?
speaker2: no, relax. we're just gonna give you a few tests -test your reading and math level, see where to place you.
speaker1: what's the difference?
speaker2: well, to enter g.e.d. classes a student should be able to read on an eighth-grade level. they should score 8.0 or better on the tabe reading test.
speaker1: i was in ninfe grade at i.s. ill.
speaker2: then you should have no problem.

speaker1: ...what that on your dress precious? 
speaker2: she don't say nuffin'. she don't talk to nobody.
speaker1: she nasty.
speaker3: when the last time yo head was combed?
speaker4: ...what?! shut up precious. you talk funny. you was better when you was on mute.
speaker5: here come the wide load...

speaker1: claireece, do you need another pencil? 
speaker1: claireece ...
speaker1: are you finished? precious nods absently.
speaker2: there has always been something wrong wif the tesses ...

speaker1: ...the tesses paint a picture of me wif no brain. the tesses paint a picture of me 'an my muver -my whole family as less than just ugly black grease to be wiped away, punished, caged up, kilt, changed, finded a job for. 
speaker1: sometimes i wish i was not alive. i be o.k. i guess.

speaker1: i need some money. 
speaker2: for what?

speaker1: sumthin' to eat. my head hurt. 
speaker2: how much you need?
speaker1: five dollars.
speaker2: come and git it then. the air changes. time stands still.

speaker1: where you going?! 
speaker2: the other day i cried, felt stupid. guess what...fuck that other day. thas why or whoever make new days. still hungry tho. precious stops and looks up at something.

speaker1: what you want baby? 
speaker2: give me a basket please.
speaker1: sides?
speaker2: ain't sure. still thinkin'. watchin' the weight you know.
speaker2: potato salad! thas it.

speaker1: reggie, where you been? i've been paging your tired all night. 
speaker1: nigga, i knew that was you. and who you running after, some fat get your over here.
speaker2: you gon catch indigestion mommie.

speaker1: ...what else would get away with clouding your mind, messin your heart and leaving the toilet seat up? wait a minute girl.... 
speaker1: each one teach one, hold please.
speaker1: each one teach one, hold.
speaker1: yeah, i'm back.

speaker1: you alright? 
speaker1: are you in the a.b.e. class?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: this is it.
speaker1: time's a wastin'.

speaker1: first thing i wonder is where is everybody -the boyz, the noises ...this feel like a sunday school or crazy house...or something like bof' but different. smell different too. 
speaker2: have a seat.

speaker1: does everyone have her notebook? 
speaker1: it's 9:07. jo ann you're late.
speaker2: i had to. most important meal of the...
speaker1: starting tomorrow, this door will be locked at 9:00.
speaker1: class, today we have some new people so let's just...
speaker2: ooh! hold up! wait up! hold up! i found something!
speaker1: i beg your pardon jo ann!
speaker2: 2000 'pologies miz rain but i jus' want to say, do anyone need an extra notebook i foun' in the chicken place?
speaker3: it's mine!
speaker2: okay hoe. i found your cadillac too. it's parked out front.

speaker1: i leff it! i did! i leff it at the kickin fried chicken on lenox tween one-two-seven and one-two-six this morning. 
speaker2: ...alright girl, i was just with you.
speaker3: mind your mouth in here jo ann.
speaker2: what i say?!
speaker3: just watch the language.
speaker2: when you due? precious looks down and shrugs her shoulders.
speaker3: since we have more new people than old people today, let's just go back to square one and get to know each other. state your name, where you were born, your favorite color, something you do well and why you're here.
speaker4: what?!
speaker3: i'll start. my name is blu rain ...
speaker4: what?!

speaker1: thas your real name? 
speaker2: that's my for real, hope to die if i'm lying name.
speaker1: your first name blue?
speaker2: yes it is. my favorite color is purple...
speaker3: off da bat sumthin' different wif dis lady. she like to sing. i wish i could sing. go to church. sing on a choir. mama say ain't no dis lady remind me mr. wicher but more a man and like miss lichenstein 'cept not a cuckoo. dress like she ride in out the village too.
speaker2: ...what do i do well? i sing pretty well. and i'm here because a good friend used to teach at this school. she was out one day and asked me to substitute for her. when she quit, they asked me if i wanted the job. i said yes and i've been here ever since. rhonda?
speaker4: my name rhonda patrice johnson. i was born in kingston jamaica ...

speaker1: what do you do good? 
speaker2: well. what do you do well jo ann?
speaker3: i'm a good mother, a very good mother.
speaker4: my name is jermaine. my favorite color...
speaker5: tell us where you born first.
speaker4: i was born in the bronx, still live there...
speaker3: you come to harlem to get away from bad influence?

speaker1: i'm afraid so. 
speaker2: can i go miz rain?
speaker3: when it's your turn jo ann.
speaker4: favorite color? why i'm here?
speaker3: it's just a way of breaking the ice -a way of getting to know each other better...

speaker1: ...you don't have to do it if you don't want to but you do have to watch your language. 
speaker2: i don't want to.
speaker1: you don't want to do what, participate or watch your language?
speaker2: the first part.
speaker1: claireece?
speaker1: claireece?

speaker1: could i skip too miz rain? 
speaker2: certainly. jo ann?
speaker3: i'm jo ann. hi! my favorite color is fluorescent beige. my ambition is to have my own record layer.
speaker4: where were you born and why are you at this school?

speaker1: well, that's everyone. welcome to... 
speaker2: i could...could i...go?
speaker1: okay claireece.

speaker1: everybody looking at me now. everybody see me. i wish for back of class again... 
speaker1: ...then i think, never that again.
speaker1: my name claireece precious jones. i go by precious. i was born in harlem. i like yellow 'n i had a problem at my old school so i come here.
speaker2: something you do well? precious thinks for a moment and then shrugs.
speaker1: ...nuffin.
speaker2: everybody is good at something.
speaker2: one thing?
speaker1: i can cook and...
speaker2: and?
speaker1: i never...

speaker1: well ...i never talked in class before. i guess now i could do that too. 
speaker1: ...here. it make me feel ...here. the class is quietly taken aback.

speaker1: the longest journey begins with a single step... 
speaker2: ...whatever the that spozed to mean. this school different, okay. but this not star trek neitha'.
speaker2: complicated, complicated -chinese journeys, 2 books, write 'n you don't know how? dawg ...

speaker1: ...i just want you to read a page from this book. 
speaker2: sure lady, right after i get voted president.
speaker1: precious?
speaker2: i can't do that miz rain.
speaker1: c'mon precious. give it a try.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: the pages ...
speaker2: they all look alike to me. always did.
speaker1: the words or the pictures?
speaker2: the words.
speaker1: i think i understand you precious but i still want you to try. you're going to have to push yourself.
speaker1: what do you think the story is about?
speaker2: peoples at the beach?
speaker1: that's right.
speaker1: do you know what that is?

speaker1: yes. a. 
speaker2: do you know that word?
speaker1: no. i don't.
speaker2: do you know the letters.

speaker1: do you know that word? 
speaker1: day. that word is day.
speaker1: what's that word?
speaker2: ate.
speaker1: good! almost! the word is 'at'.
speaker2: the!
speaker2: ...beach?
speaker3: 'shore'. that word is 'shore'. that's almost like 'beach'. very good. can you read the whole thing?

speaker1: bring your fat in here! 
speaker1: where you sneak your off to this morning?
speaker1: you hear me talking to you! where you sneak your off to this morning?!
speaker2: school! i was at school!
speaker1: you lying whore!
speaker2: am not!
speaker1: you is! the welfare done called here, saying they is removing you from my budget 'cause you not in regular attendance in school.
speaker2: mama, i tole you i got kicked out. i been home mostly every day for two weeks.

speaker1: you didn't say nothin' `bout no school today. 
speaker2: mama, i tole you dis morning i was goin'to school.
speaker1: i ain' had no breakfast.
speaker1: ...need to forget school. need to git your on down to welfare.
speaker2: i'm gonna get stipend for school and then...
speaker1: fool a stipend. what's that? i said take your down to welfare.
speaker2: now?
speaker1: no stupid. got to be there at 7 in the a.m. if you gonna talk to anybody...
speaker1: -oh you too good for that? is that what you is now, too good for welfare?

speaker1: what you gon' have? 
speaker2: i ain' hungry. i ...
speaker1: yes you is.
speaker2: but mama i ...
speaker1: sit your down. precious sighs and joins mary on the couch.
speaker1: jus make mine after you done. this gon' get cold if it sit.

speaker1: but i thought you said you was hongry? 
speaker2: do what i say don't say what i say. now eat
speaker2: ...best feed like a pig and not a cow so's you can git yo back to the stove. if i croak off starvation, where in the world you be at then?

speaker1: what do you want me to say? 
speaker2: whatever comes to mind when you think about your home.
speaker1: seem like inquiring white always want to know.
speaker1: i wish i had a tv in my room.
speaker2: is that all?
speaker1: no... my muver is a like a whale person for the couch. she says i eat alla time, but then she always makin' me eat... and then call me a fat mess.... she says apartment is little because of me.

speaker1: of course. i want to learn more about your father anyway. 
speaker2: i don't know much more than you do miz white...
speaker1: weiss.
speaker2: he say he the original man like farrakhan be saying but little do he know about it. he give me this baby comin and my other one before. thas all i know. don't see him.
speaker1: what did you say your father gave you?
speaker2: ...nuffin.
speaker1: yes you did claireece. you said your father gave you...
speaker2: no i didn't neitha. if you heard that, then you heard sumthin' else cause i ain' said nuffin like it!
speaker2: now whas next?
speaker1: um...how about your first child? you haven't spoken much about her...

speaker1: mongo? 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: mongo? thas short for mongoloid.
speaker2: you mean she has down syndrome?
speaker1: alla dat.
speaker1: my grandmuver toosie, brangs little mongo over on days social worker come so it look like mongo live wif us. then my mama get the check 'n food stamps for me 'n little mongo. but it's my baby. little mongo is money for me, not her!

speaker1: ...sometimes i see vampires too. they come for me sometimes and they say that i am one of them. they say, "precious, you belong wif us." 
speaker2: how do you respond to them?
speaker1: i say, "check wif my muver." after that, they just look at me and go down through the floor. the family downstairs is vampires so that's where they should go.
speaker1: i'm going to the doctor now too. it's nice. miz rain, she fall out when she finded out that i ain' been to no doctor. whole class scream 'preenatal' at me. they don't know i had my first baby on the kitchen floor wif my muver kicking me upside my head. i mean, who would believe?
speaker1: them the kind of thangs you mean when you say talk about whatever come into my mind?
speaker1: i still don't know why i said all them thangs. i know i wasn't s'posed to. just tired.

speaker1: miz rain brang us out to see some real old stuff. thangs and stuff before tv's was made, before mr. abraham lincoln, before miz harriet tubman -maybe some stuff before miz weiss even. 
speaker1: before we turn tha corner in a mummy tomb, rita grab hold of my hand. no one in my life ever do that. ever. how rita do it wiffout a thought?
speaker1: guide lady smart. say dis the first civilization of the earf. black folks, first!

speaker1: i liked'd that museum so much i went back by myself... peoples ...they only look when my belly big. they minds all made. but do they know? no. they do not know that i am a girl for flowers and thin straw legs? 
speaker1: if other peoples could see that the way i do, they would see that i am a real person inside.

speaker1: i am happy to be writing. i am happy to be in school. i am happy to know my baby coming soon. don't see the sense in pretending i am not pregnant anymore. i am also thinking about lil mongo a lot. miz rain say we gonna write everyday, that mean home too. 
speaker1: and she gonna write back everyday. thas great.
speaker1: mama say this new school ain' tho. say you can't learn nuffin' writing in no book. gotta git on that computer you want to make some money. but mama wrong about that.

speaker1: i win. 
speaker2: that hurt girl.
speaker1: get to x-ray.
speaker2: maybe i will.
speaker1: you gon have to if you don't practice.
speaker2: alright.

speaker1: dear miz rain, all the years i sit in class i never learn, but now i got baby again by my fahver. 
speaker1: i wish i had a boyfriend like other girls and then i'd feel right that i have to quit school. i love my baby but want school too.

speaker1: dear precious, i am glad you love your baby. 
speaker1: i think a beautiful young girl like you should have a chance to get an education. i think your first responsibility has to be to yourself. you should not drop out of school ...

speaker1: come back to class. we miss you. love, ms rain. 
speaker2: dear miz rain...

speaker1: dear miz rain, lot of questions you ask. no muver, no grandmuver and father me years. little mongo wif my grandmuver. best for me to stop breaving sometimes i think. i want to be a good mother too tho. 
speaker2: dear dear precious, being a good mother might mean letting your baby be raised by someone who is better able than you to meet the child's needs.
speaker1: dear miz rain, i is best able to meet my child's need.

speaker1: the welfare help mama, it help me. 
speaker2: dear precious miss, when you get home from the hospital, look and see how much welfare has helped your mother.

speaker1: precious what happened? 
speaker1: precious, could i see your baby now? i just wanna see.
speaker1: precious, what's wro...

speaker1: i need to see nurse john. where nurse john at? 
speaker2: he's on break. he'll be back soon. have a seat.
speaker2: hey...you don't remember me do you?

speaker1: i delivered your last one. 
speaker1: you know i'm sorry to see you back here. i remembered hoping that you would have learned from your mistakes.
speaker2: you don't know me get lost 'fore i kick your ass.
speaker2: 
speaker2: i ain't make no mistake unless it was being born. ding! the elevator doors open. john steps off between precious and the nurse.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker2: my mama kick my again. i ain' giving abdul away. and i ain' gonna stop school ...i just...ain't. john looks concerned.

speaker1: give the chile back her blanket! 
speaker2: you. i ain' giving back the woman walks away.

speaker1: i can tell by miz rain's face that i ain' gonna be homeless no more. only i ain' so sure where i'm gon end up tho. 
speaker2: yes i'll hold. safety net huh? what safety net?! a newborn child! a new born!
speaker1: thas the one time i heard miz rain curse.
speaker2: excuse my language precious.

speaker1: i feels really sorry for her. she just a abc teacher, not no social worker. but she all i could think of. 
speaker2: hi precious!
speaker3: what happened?

speaker1: good morning girls. tell the others to start writing when they come in. whichever one of you is older is in charge until i get back. and consuelo, i know that is not you. so here is $20.00. 
speaker1: go get something for precious to wear. quick! and bring me back my change.
speaker2: how old you is?
speaker3: same age as you.
speaker2: when your birthday?
speaker3: when yours?
speaker2: i asked you first.
speaker3: so ...
speaker1: well why didn't you tell me that before!!! i'm sitting here half the-

speaker1: jo ann, you late. 
speaker2: you ain't the teacher.
speaker1: i am today. miz rain busy wif precious.
speaker2: alright!!! how precious?
speaker3: they have ...something. it's an immediate opening and it's in queens.
speaker3: queens?
speaker4: yeah. queens ...what do you think?
speaker3: i don't really know queens.
speaker4: me either. you should stay in harlem...long as we can anyway.

speaker1: hey precious. 
speaker2: hi miss lisa.
speaker3: how you been?
speaker2: good. how you been?
speaker3: i don't know... i went to see that movie barfly last night... that piece of was depressin...cute kid.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker4: i have the information on my desk. can you hold one second?

speaker1: how do you spell "aquarius"? 
speaker2: what you want to spell that for?

speaker1: is that right? 
speaker2: of course it's right. i'm one of `em.
speaker3: i wonder can you spell "boy" then.
speaker2: i wonder can you spell "slut" then.
speaker3: maybe, but i bet miss lisa can.
speaker4: yes brenda. thank you.
speaker4: they can take you. tomorrow...at a place here in harlem.
speaker4: you just need somewhere to stay tonight. you don't snore do you?

speaker1: honey, how many times did i tell you about the music? 
speaker1: you must be precious. hi.
speaker2: precious, this is my wife katherine.
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: i said that this is my wife katherine.
speaker3: ...oh...

speaker1: what's his name? he's adorable. 
speaker2: this abdul.
speaker1: he looks just like you.
speaker2: thanks. y'all really married?
speaker3: yes precious. very much.

speaker1: ...ask yourself. just ask yourself; if ronald mcdonald were running the show and the price of hamburgers skyrocketed, wouldn't you be suspicious? 
speaker2: i just think you should finish the book.
speaker1: who's gonna read it?
speaker2: nobody if you don't write it. precious writes everyday. you should try it.
speaker1: what do you write about precious?
speaker3: i don't know. stuff in my life.

speaker1: mama say homos is bad peoples ... 
speaker1: ...but homos not who me, homos not who let me sit up in school 16 years and learn nuffin and homos not sell crack to peoples in harlem. i wonder what oprah have to say about that?
speaker2: you okay precious?
speaker1: y' all watch oprah?

speaker1: thanks nurse john. 
speaker2: you're welcome. what are you gonna do with your award money?
speaker1: i owe the chicken place for a bucket that i swiped last year. thas first. after that, get some thangs for abdul.
speaker2: you know blu?
speaker1: miz rain?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: like dis.
speaker2: well she has, has she uh...got a man?
speaker1: ...no.
speaker2: well i was hoping you could put in the good word.
speaker1: the good word...wif ms. rain?
speaker2: yeah, that's what i'm trying to say.
speaker1: you ain't her type.

speaker1: hold on girl. 
speaker2: miss lisa this nurse john. nurse john this miss lisa. cornrows looks up at john.
speaker2: y'all work it out.
speaker3: hi ...how are you?
speaker1: i get off at 4.

speaker1: miz rain? 
speaker2: precious, i thought you went home.
speaker1: not yet. i forgot to say thank you for my party.
speaker2: you're welcome. it was my pleasure.
speaker2: was there something else?
speaker1: i ...no...
speaker2: are you sure?
speaker1: well, i was thinking...
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: you talk to us girls in the class when we be working out problems and thangs and stuff, right?
speaker2: mm hm...
speaker1: well, who do you talk to?
speaker1: or you probably don't have no problems so...
speaker2: everybody has those precious.

speaker1: ms. rain, some folks just got it made in the shade. 
speaker2: it only looks that way. yes, i talk to people all the time for support.
speaker1: oh, okay...i didn't have nobody to really speak wif for a long time. i know how that be sometimes so thas why i asked cause almost evrybody need a little help once in a ...
speaker2: what on earth are you talking about?
speaker1: well ...only that -well, evrybody need a little help once in a ...
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: i jus ...
speaker2: you just what?!
speaker1: i just thought that if you might need some ...
speaker2: precious?!
speaker1: ...yes.
speaker2: you've helped me already.

speaker1: me? i never... 
speaker2: last night i had a conversation with my mother, and that never happens cause our relationship is.... complicated. we don't speak, and when we do, it always ends in a fight about my filthy misguided existence. most times i feel terrible for days afterwards wondering whether all the hateful things she said are true. those days i just feel like...like...
speaker1: nuffin?
speaker2: ...yeah. i didn't feel so bad this time though. cause this time i thought about how strong you've had to be and then i decided that i had nothing to be ashamed of and that my mother was wrong about me, my dad and 5 or 6 hundred other things. you ask if you can help me? baby, you already have.
speaker1: ...for real?
speaker2: that's the for real, hope to die if i'm lying truth. now shouldn't you be out the door?
speaker1: i jus help you finish up first. i got some time.

speaker1: suit yourself. 
speaker2: some folks got a light around them that shine for other peoples. i think maybe some of them was in a long tunnel before. and in that tunnel, maybe the only light they had was one that was inside of them and then -even long after they escaped that tunnel, they still be shining for everybody else. thas miz rain to me.

speaker1: come in... precious closes her window. 
speaker2: precious ...you have a visitor.
speaker1: thas rhonda. she always early.

speaker1: i should've said 4 'cause then that way... 
speaker2: it's not rhonda.

speaker1: your daddy dead. 
speaker2: ...is that all?

speaker1: ... you got it? 
speaker2: got what?
speaker1: the aids virus.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: how you know?
speaker2: we never did, you know...
speaker1: no, i don't know mama.
speaker2: we never did what you got to do to get it.
speaker1: he never been wif you?
speaker2: yeah...but not like faggots, in the and all, so i know.

speaker1: you better go to the doctor ma. 
speaker2: you welcome back home.
speaker1: i'm home here. i better go see 'bout abdul and do homework. mary doesn't move as precious leaves.

speaker1: rita, what do i mean when the author describes her protagonist's circumstances as "unrelenting"? 
speaker2: i don't know miz rain.
speaker1: c'mon rita, think about the question before you just give up like that...

speaker1: precious? the entire class looks up at precious. 
speaker1: precious, bring your journal to me.
speaker1: precious, would you come to my office for a moment? precious doesn't respond. the class still watches curiously.
speaker1: preci-
speaker2: nurse say i am h.i.v. positive. the air changes sharply. everything stops.
speaker2: i don't have nuffin to write today and i don't hate no one. not even my muhver. my head is all dark inside so i don't have nuffin to write today...maybe nuffin never.

speaker1: your baby okay? 
speaker2: yeah. he good...won't bress feed him no more to be safe.
speaker3: one time in your journal you told me that you had never really told your story. write. precious' eyes well up some more.
speaker2: what for? how?! i feel like i am drowning inside a giant river miz rain. thas what...
speaker3: i think telling your story will get you over that river precious ...

speaker1: open your notebook precious. 
speaker2: i'm tired miz rain!
speaker1: i know you are but you can't stop now. you gotta fight through this. you still have to live your life and do the best you can with the hand you've been dealt. if not for yourself then for the people who love you.
speaker2: nobody love me. thas a lie.
speaker1: people do love you precious.
speaker2: please don't lie miz rain! love?! me?! love me, beat me, call me animal, get me sick and make me feel wurfless. i had enough love.
speaker1: that wasn't love. there are people in this room who love you. your child loves you too. is that clear precious? now if rita decided to just give up? would you let her?
speaker1: would you?!
speaker2: no.
speaker1: and why not?!

speaker1: because you love her...as much as she loves you. 
speaker1: now the rest of the world can judge you, cheat you, beat you, dismiss you and abandon you all it wants but we won't let you give up and that's the only thing that matters. some people have less than that on their side and still manage to keep going. it's up to you.

speaker1: rita's daddy kill her muhver in front of her eyes and rita been out on the street selling herself since she 12. 
speaker1: jermaine say mens beat her and then her for what she is. muhver throw her out the house when she fine out that she different from other girls.
speaker1: miz rain still a sort of mystery, but a nice one like the sun.
speaker1: miz rain right too. these girls is my family now. they visit me at hospital when i had abdul and even take up a collection when mama kick me out. they got love in they eyes and in they hearts for me, same as i got for them.

speaker1: ...you know you can use your notebook between sessions claireece. 
speaker2: i do.
speaker1: i mean you can use it specifically for trying to recover certain early memories.

speaker1: tired of this lady asking me questions. miz rain say talk anyway but miz weiss just a spy for the state who write reports on me undercover. reports go in file. file say what i could get, where i could go and if i could get cut off and kicked out of advancement house. 
speaker2: what are you thinking?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: oh i doubt that claireece. it seems like you're always thinking about something.
speaker1: i don't know. it's sort of hot in here i guess.
speaker2: it is, isn't it? as a matter of fact, i'm going to get myself something to drink. would you like something to drink claireece?
speaker1: a soda sounds nice ...please.
speaker2: what kind?
speaker1: i don't care.
speaker2: oh c'mon, you must.
speaker1: orange.
speaker2: okee dokee.

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: you know your mother's been calling here wanting to come visit.
speaker1: really?
speaker2: would you like her to come to a counseling session with you?

speaker1: i don't know. i never really thought about it before. 
speaker2: well that's just one more thing to consider before i see you next week.

speaker1: 'i have just finished a session with claireece precious jones, an eighteen-year-old african american female. according to her teachers at each one teach one where she attends school she is a pen-, phen- 
speaker2: ... 'phenomenal'
speaker1: ...success. having made strides so tre-men-tremendous in the past year, she was given the mayor's award for outstanding achievement. she seems actively en...engaged in all aspects of the learning process. however, her tabe test scores are disappointingly low... ' not to miz rain! not to miz rain! 'she scored 2.8 on her last test.' so what! miz rain-
speaker2: get a grip and gon' read the report and don't get all emotional about what this silly hoe got to say. anyway, if your wasn't dope you wouldn't be standing up here readin' -what, what's her name

speaker1: 'she will need at least an 8.0 before she can enter g.e.d. class and begin work toward her high school e-q...equivalency.' 
speaker2: ...nice.
speaker1: thanks. 'abdul is the client's second-born child. he's from all outwhere...
speaker2: 'outward'...
speaker1: 'appearances, a healthy and welladjusted toddler. precious attends to his needs a-s-s-i-d-u-o-s-l-y...
speaker3: whatever.
speaker1: ... 'and with great affection and ee... '
speaker2: 'eagerly'
speaker1: ... 'seeks any and all information on child rearing. the time and resources it would require for this young woman to get a g.e.d. or into college would be considerable'...

speaker1: finish reading this ...i know what's coming. 
speaker2: 'although she is in school now, it is not a job readiness program. nonetheless, claireece is capable of going to work. in january, her son will be two years old. in keeping with the new initiative on welfare reform, i feel claireece would benefit from any of the various workfare programs in existence. despite her obvious intellectual limitations she is quite capable of working as a home attendant.'
speaker1: i don't want to be no home attendant! i wanna be...
speaker2: hush! 'my rapp-o-r-t with precious is minimal. although i am not sure with whom, she evidently has access to counseling services provided by each one teach one. she has a history of sexual abuse and is h.i.v. positive.'
speaker1: she say she not put that in my file!
speaker2: that's the bitch's job, to get the mofuckin' goods on you! 'the client seems to view the social services, afdc, as taking care of her forever.'
speaker1: that file do show one thing -that

speaker1: i'm getting my g.e.d., a job, and a place for me and abdul, then i go to college. i don't want to 'home attend' nobody! 
speaker2: you better put this back before you get in trouble. we talk about it with ms. rain in the morning.

speaker1: miz weiss just part of the gang but definitely not cool. and social worker look at me like i am ugly freak who did something to make my own life like it is. i guess i am trying to figure out just what has happened to me while miz weiss just bent on making me go wipe old people's asses. 
speaker1: got to sort dis out quick tho 'fore abdul's next birthday -coming up fast.

speaker1: time is up. does anyone want to share? 
speaker1: okay precious.
speaker2: i don't really want to read all i wrote, i jus' wanna kinda say what it is i'm writing about and how it came about.
speaker3: what happened?
speaker2: well, to make a long story short, the counselor at advancement house quizzing me about mama and daddy etc., etc. but it's really about workfare. she want to send me out as home attendant.
speaker4: how you know?
speaker2: cause i stole my file from advancement house and read it.
speaker5: next time get mine's too.
speaker2: all this 'what you wanna be?' and 'you can talk to me.' they ain' no therapists on our side, they just flunkies for the 'fare. i wanna work, but not for no welfare check in central park -displacing brothers and sisters who really got jobs cleaning up 'cause i'm there working for free.

speaker1: and what kinda is it for someone like precious to have quit school before she get her g.e.d. to work at some live-in job for some old-ass crackers. she'll never make a rise she get stuck in some like that! 
speaker2: sit up straight jermaine and watch your language. both of you. please.
speaker2: now i see your points, but is stealing...
speaker3: miz rain, if i didn't steal that file i wouldn't know what i was facing!
speaker2: you read the whole thing by yourself?
speaker3: yeah...basically.
speaker4: rhonda home attend. say old would ring a bell when she want rhonda in the night!
speaker1: rhonda used to have to go all the way out to brighton beach where she work for them people.
speaker3: the people had her there all day and night - 'on call' they call it. but you only get pay for 8 hours so that's 8 x $6.37 = $50.96 a day, but then you is not really getting that much cause you is working more than eight hours a day. you is working 24 hours a day and 50.96 divided by 24 is...

speaker1: rhonda say old would ring a bell - a actual bell -when she want rhonda in the night! 
speaker2: home attendants usually work six days a week. i would only see abdul on sundays? when would i go to school? am i gonna hafta go be home attendant like rhonda was?
speaker3: no! so stop worrying about it. we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. trust me -no, trust yourself. my concern now is that if this ms. weiss is someone you're working with and can't trust, she's out! we gotta find somebody else.
speaker2: well, i just write in my notebook till i get wif some kinda therapist i can trust. actually that always help me more than talking to her. plus, i'm going to start going to meetings wif rita for insect survivors.
speaker4: incest.
speaker2: that's what i mean.
speaker4: well it ain't what you been saying.
speaker2: what's the big deal?
speaker4: one's where your family molest you, the other is like a roach or bugs.

speaker1: precious, have you ever had your hearing tested? 
speaker2: no. i never really had nothing tested...nothing like that. glasses is what i really want so my eyes don't hurt when i be reading at night.

speaker1: anyway, thas all i'd like to say for today. thank y'all for letting me share... 
speaker1: everything is floating around me now. like geeses from the lake. i see flying. feel flying. am flying. far up...thank you rita for getting me here on time.

speaker1: ...how you get your hair like that? 
speaker2: oh, you like it? i do yours one day if you want. that's what i do - fix people's hair and makeup.
speaker1: thank you miriam.

speaker1: rita ask me do i want another hot chocolate. i do but i don't want to be greedy, even if her boyfriend do give her money. 
speaker1: i'm alive inside. a bird is my heart. mama and daddy didn't win. i'm winning. i'm drinking hot chocolate on the upper west side with girls - all kind who love me. how does a stranger meet me and love me?

speaker1: go on back there! 
speaker2: but there are no kids there i can play with.
speaker1: do you want me to knock your other eye out! just sit there and shut up then! i'm going to talk to this lady before my gets cut off!

speaker1: one day miz rain ask us to write about our ideal self...i wrote that i would be light skinned and small wif wavy swing-job hair. 
speaker1: miz rain read all that and then say i am beautiful like i am. i never believe her before but somehow, today, this moment -can't say why, i do. just now...the inside i thought was so beautiful is a black girl too.

speaker1: 'buse? 
speaker2: yes ms. johnston. abuse.
speaker1: there was no drugs in ma house! no drugs! 'cause precious know well i whoop her bright blue if she bring some drugs in ma...
speaker2: i'm referring to inappropriate acts of a physical and sexual nature involving precious.
speaker1: why'nt you say dat? dat?! okay.
speaker2: yes. according to precious' files she has had two children by your boyfriend, the late carl kenwood jones, who is also her father?

speaker1: ...well, i, precious b'long at home cause i'm a good mother. she had everything. i done tole her that. pink 'n white baby carriage, little pink bootie socks, dresses; everything i put on her pink. precious, she so smiling and healthy. a day don't go by i don't throw her wheeling in the air. i take her up and down 125th street. me 'n carl loved precious. i dreamed of the day we was gonna you know, git married, git house wif grass, color tv's in all the rooms. precious, she born about the same time as miz west son that got kilt. you remember him don't you precious? 
speaker1: he born summertime 'bout same time as you.
speaker2: i was born in november...far as i know.
speaker1: yeah yeah thas right. my little scorpio chile! scorpio's crafty. i ain' sayin' they lie, jus' you cain't always trust 'em.
speaker3: ms. johnston, when did the abuse happen, how often, where? and, when were you first aware of what was going on?

speaker1: when? i don't know when it start. when i remember it? she still little. yeah, around three maybe. i give her a bottle. i still got milk in my bresses but not from her but from carl sucking. i give him tittie, precious bottle. hygiene, you know? 
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: you mentioned something about hygiene in connection with...
speaker1: i bottle her, tittie him. bottle more better for kidz. sanitary. but i never git dried up 'cause carl always on me. it's like that you know. chile, man -a woman got bofe. what you gonna do? so we in bed. i put her one side of me on pillow, carl on other side of me. ms. weiss looks as if she's stopped breathing. i think thas the day it start. so he on me. then he reach over to precious! i say carl what you doing! he say shut your big up! this good for her. i say stop carl stop! i want him on me! i never wanted him to hurt her. i didn't want him doing anything to her. i wanted my man for myself -to me up, not my chile. me it! so you cain't blame all that happen to precious on me. i love carl, i loved him. he her daddy but he was my man!

speaker1: lady from each one preach one say she got poems too. in fact... 
speaker2: that's enough mama. that's ... enough. you know, i didn't realize what you was until this day -even after all those thangs you did. maybe i didn't know no better or maybe i just didn't want to but i finally see you crystal clear for the first time. i forgive you too.
speaker2: ...but i'll never see you again. not even if you dead.
speaker2: stay down mama.
speaker2: i forgive you too. i can tell right now that you ain't qualified for dis kind of mess.
speaker3: ...precious? i was thinking we might...
speaker2: i took the tabe test again. this time it's 7.8. last time it was

speaker1: ...why congratulations precious. that's ... 
speaker1: precious, perhaps it's best if you remain seat...
speaker1: precious?!

