speaker1: it's pretty. who is it from? 
speaker2: my wife.

speaker1: my guess is we're talking fuel filters here, fernando. the gas is dirty, these jitneys get in the mountains, their engines cut out. 
speaker2: that could lose us half an hour.
speaker1: easy. each way.
speaker1: so it finally turned up...
speaker1: i'll catch the sweep tonight.

speaker1: it took this test package thirty-two hours to get from seattle to st. petersburg, a distance of nine thousand miles. and then it took forty-one hours to get from our warehouse in st. petersburg to here, a distance of, what -- 
speaker2: six kilometers. four miles.
speaker1: so how are we going to get this place shaped up?
speaker1: there's only one way. we have to work together. every one of us depends on everyone else. if one package is late, we are all late. if one truck misses the deadline, we all miss the deadline. let's start by taking a look around.
speaker1: here, this table is too far from the wall. packages can slip down...like... ...this.
speaker1: what could be in here? let's say one of you sent it. could be the closing papers on your dacha, could be a toy for your grandson's birthday, could be a kidney to keep your mother alive. i don't think you want your mother's kidney to end up behind a table.
speaker3: he says they have been very busy. it is hard to get good employees. he is sure you understand.
speaker2: phone call. malaysia.
speaker1: kamal? right. i'm getting them.
speaker1: i'm looking at the blueprints of k.l. right now. the belts are too small for the sorters. yeah, sometimes you never see what's right in front of your face. look, it's --
speaker1: hold it! hazardous material needs its own container! -- three in the afternoon there, right? that gives you five hours until the sweep comes through. do the sort by hand tonight, then put in a new feeder belt, say a twenty-four incher. yes, overtime is authorized.
speaker1: i'm going out on every route, i'm going to work every job here, until i know enough to help you. that's it.
speaker2: it's bad.
speaker1: worse than warsaw.
speaker2: nobody remembers that.
speaker1: the failures they remember. it's the successes they forget.

speaker1: you sorted your packages before you left. none of the other drivers did. the translator and lev exchange a few words. 
speaker2: he says he wants to be organized. do packages in order.
speaker1: so how come the other drivers haven't left yet?
speaker2: he says -- he is a very rude fellow --
speaker1: tell me exactly what he said.
speaker2: he says why don't his farts smell sweet?
speaker2: he says that's just the way it is.
speaker1: lev -- it's lev, right? listen, this is fedex. we don't have to accept the way it is.

speaker1: no, keep trying. a circuit's bound to open up. 
speaker1: hello? great. try it.
speaker2: this is kelly, leave me a message and i'll call you back soon as i can.
speaker1: kelly, damn, look, this is chuck. i'm going to be a little late. well, more than a little. i had to go to russia. couldn't be helped. could you call and cancel the trip? look, we'll sail the keys in march. it's better then anyway. i'll be back before christmas. i promise. i think. i mean, i will. i, uh --
speaker1: i miss you.

speaker1: we've never got all the trucks in on time. never. 
speaker2: only one still left?
speaker1: route six.
speaker3: if we don't send it now we may miss the connection in paris.
speaker2: give it five minutes.

speaker1: that's bermuda. bermuda is in the memphis thru container. no, azores is europe. 
speaker1: the paris container. africa too. japan goes to memphis.

speaker1: we did it. all of them. 
speaker2: great job, everyone. remember, work together. we are like a hand...
speaker1: one finger, weak. all fingers working together, strong.
speaker2: you got it.

speaker1: i absolutely, positively, have to get to memphis overnight. 
speaker2: can't help you. try ups.
speaker1: jack -- gotta be something wrong with our physicals, you keep getting certified to fly. gwen, aren't you worried?
speaker3: terrified.
speaker1: we're on time, right?
speaker2: on time, chuck.
speaker1: little present from the emerging republics.
speaker1: what connects the world? what makes it one? we do. fedex.
speaker3: you are such a lifer.
speaker4: what do you expect, from the guy who stole a kid's bicycle when his truck broke down?
speaker1: borrowed. i borrowed it.
speaker4: how'd it go?
speaker1: great. terrific. the good guys won one for a change.
speaker4: i had to bump your plane last night.
speaker1: you what?
speaker4: it was fifteen minutes late.
speaker1: i checked the weather, you had the jet stream, you could have made it up.
speaker4: but i might not have.
speaker1: i got it working... you have no idea how hard it was... they're finally a team...
speaker4: i'm touched.
speaker1: you us over.
speaker4: the point of fedex, as i understand it, is to make the connection.
speaker1: i was making a point.
speaker4: what? let paris hold its plane? let memphis take care of it? let somebody down the line clean up your mess?
speaker1: every person counts, every package counts, that's my point.
speaker4: you know what your problem is? you just see the packages in front of you. you don't see the big picture.
speaker1: baloney. i do see the "big picture."

speaker1: i didn't know we had sailboats. 
speaker2: it's a ketch kelly and i had chartered.
speaker1: for all those vacation days you got coming.
speaker2: and never take.
speaker1: look, i'm sorry about your plane. but i couldn't risk being late into memphis.
speaker2: forget it.
speaker1: you know general mclelland, he wouldn't attack unless he had everything just right. finally abe lincoln came to him and said, general, if you're not going to use my army, could i borrow it for a while? so he gave it to grant and grant just said, let's go.
speaker2: i'm from arkansas. tell me a story with robert e. lee in it and maybe i'll pay attention.
speaker1: we're warriors, not desk jockeys. we've got to be bold. you always want all your ducks lined up. but nothing's 100 percent. it's always 60-40, maybe 51-49. hell, i'd take 40-60. then roll the dice.
speaker2: that's why you're a gambling man.
speaker1: that's why i'm running foreign and you're not. that's why you're not married and i am.
speaker2: for the third time.
speaker1: take the plunge, admit your mistakes, move on to tomorrow. that's fedex, that's women, that's life.
speaker2: you are one sick
speaker1: i'm trying to help you here. there's warsaw, there's this --
speaker2: this was nothing like warsaw. i held the truck then minutes, it's not that big a deal. but apparently it is.
speaker1: look, that kids' bike, that's a guy who'll do what it takes to get there on time. live up to your legend, that's all i'm saying.
speaker2: a hundred rubles st. petersburg hits 95 percent in a month.
speaker1: ninety five percent? just give me the money now.
speaker2: talk is cheap. are we on or not?
speaker1: we're on.
speaker2: let's go off-line.
speaker2: two valium...
speaker1: and the stones. got to be.

speaker1: chuck. wake up chuck. 
speaker1: you gotta do your own delivery from here.

speaker1: thing. 
speaker1: sorry, i'm really sorry.

speaker1: you seen kelly frears? 
speaker2: xerox machine.

speaker1:  
speaker2: hey, be nice to it, it'll be nice to you. surprised, kelly turns to greet chuck.
speaker1: chuck! you're back!
speaker1: your eyes are puffy. did you take valium again?
speaker2: you smell like formaldehyde.
speaker1: my last chapter's in there, and the machine's jammed.
speaker2: let's take a look.
speaker1: how was russia?
speaker2: cold.
speaker1: don't overwhelm me with details, you know how i hate that. did you get it fixed?
speaker2: i thought i did.
speaker2: got to follow the paper path here.
speaker1: chuck, forget the xerox. so russia didn't turn out well?
speaker2: used to you could fix these yourself.
speaker1: chuck.
speaker2: what do you want me to say? that i thought i'd done a great job but it all turned to that i might as well have gone sailing for all the good i did?
speaker1: yeah, tell me. tell me all of it.
speaker1: you don't even know what time it is. what day it is.
speaker2: and i can't fix this machine.
speaker1: come on.

speaker1: we're on the deck of the ketch, the air's soft, the water's clear as crystal... 
speaker2: that's carcinogenic.
speaker1: we're covered with suntan lotion and sweat. our skin is so hot, it's glowing...
speaker1: we could take a swim.
speaker2: on the other hand we could not take a swim...

speaker1: so why was milan late, colin? 
speaker2: one of the race horses coming from ireland got colic and had to be off- loaded in brussels. that put the jumbo 15, six hours late into charles de gaulle. customs had difficulty locating the dutiable items...
speaker1: stan, can we get panda down to work with milan customs?
speaker3: we're already on it.
speaker1: good. and let's look at our live animal policy. i don't think the income stream justifies delaying ip product, especially at christmas.
speaker1: stand by, benson, we're still wrapping up foreign. she turns pointedly to chuck.
speaker1: chuck, thanks for joining us. status?
speaker4: becca, as you know st. petersburg was consistently running late by six to ten hours -- sometimes a full day or more. i replaced the station manager. we identified inefficiencies and worked out a quality improvement plan i believe can be met.
speaker5: you replaced the station manager with a driver. a local with no knowledge of our systems.
speaker1: shouldn't you have brought in someone from memphis? russia is priority one.
speaker5: james pottinger is available.
speaker3: he's a numbers cruncher. chuck's done all the right things here...
speaker4: jim's a terrific financial man, no question. but we can't always parachute in from memphis. we've got to build up our local staff.
speaker5: we've got to improve foreign on-time, that's what we've got to do. if this new guy's so good, how come the very first plane he sent missed the connection in paris?
speaker4: we're building a new team here. we got every package on the truck for the first time ever. success is the best teacher.
speaker5: i don't call missing the plane a success. everyone looks at chuck.

speaker1: merry christmas eve. 
speaker2: not if you work for fedex.

speaker1: you break four million packages last night? 
speaker2: four four. a record.
speaker1: you don't seem too happy about it.
speaker2: ah, the staff meeting could have gone better.
speaker1: let me guess, russia came up?
speaker2: one of those packages just moved.
speaker1: merry christmas.
speaker2: hey, look at you.
speaker1: i figure, if we could take care of a puppy, we could, you know, take care of --
speaker2: he is a cute thing.
speaker1: he's your cute thing.
speaker2: i can't even keep fish alive.
speaker1: a puppy's got a little more personality than a fish.
speaker2: and for you -- chuck hands over his present.
speaker1: so do good things come in large packages?
speaker2: you know, for when you travel.
speaker1: for when i travel?
speaker1: you should have got me something that shows you want us to be together, not apart.
speaker2: i wasn't sending a message. i though you'd like it.
speaker1: you should have got me a ring.
speaker2: i have to go. i'm on call for overflow down at the hub.
speaker1: a ring. i wanted a ring.
speaker2: you did?
speaker2: look, i love the puppy. i love you. but i have to go.
speaker1: you can't go now.
speaker2: i have to.
speaker1: you want to.
speaker2: what should we call him? or is it her? how about jango?
speaker1: this isn't working out.
speaker2: we're a little emotional here. it's christmas, maybe we're over-reacting.
speaker1: "we're" not over-reacting.
speaker2: could you watch jango?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i can't take him to work.
speaker2: we'll talk about it when i come back. it'll all be fine. really.

speaker1: what happened to your pants? 
speaker2: mom, meet jango.

speaker1: chuck? 
speaker2: bless us o lord, and these thy gifts, which we are about to receive, from thou bounty, through christ the lord. amen.
speaker3: let's eat.

speaker1: how's kelly? 
speaker2: great.
speaker3: thought you were going to bring her.
speaker2: so did i.
speaker4: it seemed like she had such a good time last time.
speaker2: it's nothing you did, mom, believe me.
speaker1: jennifer's still down at the post office. and she's still got that crush on you.
speaker3: and she's still got those --
speaker1: roger.
speaker3: you should have stuck around.
speaker2: look, i help take care of the place. you got my check, didn't you mom?
speaker4: that new roof, that's your doing.
speaker3: you're just allergic to farming, that's what dad said. can't stand to be alone. can't stand to be in one place. can't stand the sight of...blood.
speaker1: roger's going to put chickens in here.
speaker2: come on roger, this is dad all over again. you already did beefalo, chinchillas, and what was that, ostrich? they chased mom around the yard, sprained her hip.
speaker4: it wasn't that bad, dear.
speaker1: you can't make a living out of this place. we tried.
speaker2: but chickens?
speaker3: sixty three pounds consumed per capita, up from twenty seven in 1960. going to pass beef. chicken's global. no religious taboos. you don't see your hindus and your muslims boycotting poultry.
speaker2: true enough. no sacred chickens nowhere, so far as i know.
speaker4: roger's working at tyson's now.
speaker2: really?
speaker3: come on down to the plant. it's state of the art. we're doing for chickens what fedex did for the delivery business.
speaker2: just don't count 'em before they hatch.
speaker3: i'll try to remember that.
speaker4: dessert.
speaker4: speaking of hatching, i could sure use some more grandchildren.
speaker2: mom, this is a farm. we've got real strawberries growing outside, we've got real cream.
speaker4: oh no, the prodigal son's home. we bring out the store bought.

speaker1: maybe i should take a few days off. roger's working now, you could use some help around here... 
speaker2: don't you even think about it.
speaker1: the place is falling apart.
speaker2: i'm doing fine.
speaker1: doing great, mom, don't worry about me.
speaker2: there's settled folks, and there's nomads. you're just not a settled folk. you never belonged here.
speaker1: come on inside, mom. you've had a long day.

speaker1: i need the latest pdrs on st. petersburg. 
speaker2: and how was your christmas?
speaker1: terrific. yours?
speaker1: and get me in to the dentist. my tooth's acting up. stan enters.
speaker3: malaysia's tanking. we're meeting in ten in operations.
speaker1: right. get me everything on indonesia, new guinea, all the way to australia.

speaker1: kamal? kamal? can you hear us? 
speaker2: can't we get this working?
speaker3: trying.
speaker1: kamal, you're breaking up. can you hear us?
speaker4: kamal is not here.
speaker1: who is this? where is kamal?
speaker4: it is ibrim, i, i am a sorter.
speaker1: what's going on down there?
speaker4: kamal is not here. we are very defused.
speaker1: who's in charge then, where is chinn?
speaker5: we got telex, e-mail?
speaker3: sure. just not getting any answers.
speaker1: when's the next jumbo?
speaker6: the regular flight is scheduled for oh three hundred tomorrow.
speaker1: anything else?
speaker6: there's a sweep leaving memphis in an hour, goes through sydney.
speaker5: maybe you should get your ducks lined up first. chuck looks over at stan.
speaker1: call operations. get me on it.

speaker1: that's your dog. 
speaker2: it's our dog. it belongs to us.
speaker1: there isn't any us.
speaker2: yes there is.
speaker1: i'm sorry about the presents. i got a little carried away.
speaker2: no, it was great. maybe a little overkill --
speaker1: i burned the christmas tree.
speaker1: why didn't you come over, get mad at me, tell me what a stupid i was.
speaker2: i guess i hadn't thought through how i felt.
speaker1: what, you were going to come over the next day all calm and say, kelly that really made me mad? don't tell me you're mad. be mad. be who you are right now.
speaker2: look, we'll do our trip as soon as i get back.
speaker1: don't even start.
speaker1: get back? from where?
speaker2: malaysia. they're holding the sweep.
speaker1: give him to me.
speaker1: chuck, you're breaking my heart.
speaker2: a week, max. okay? okay?
speaker1: go on. we'll be fine. i'll feed jango to the frogs.

speaker1: al -- gotta be something wrong with our physicals, you keep getting certified to fly. john, aren't you worried? 
speaker2: i disconnected his controls. he only thinks he's flying.
speaker1: you're on your way home, al?
speaker3: right. down home, down under.
speaker1: we're on time, right?
speaker3: on time, chuck.

speaker1: jumbo 14 is overdue in sector k. 
speaker2: where are they?
speaker3: somewhere east of port moresby. guam is getting a signal but no location. maybe the gps is out.

speaker1: where the are you? 
speaker1: 

speaker1: that was smart, really smart. 
speaker1: ahhh.

speaker1: maybe the gps malfunctioned. that korean airliner did. 
speaker1: okay, do the math. maybe they know where you are within, say 500 miles. that's a circle with an area of, uh, pi r squared. so, uh, 250,000 times three point one four, that's about 800,000 square miles. three times the size of texas. this sinks in. then chuck gets an idea.
speaker1: they could use a satellite.
speaker1: say each satellite photo is 30 feet square, that's uh...fuck it...billions and billions of photos.
speaker1: aw, someone will come.

speaker1: got to cover al up. 
speaker1: got to cover al up.

speaker1:  
speaker1: got to get there. got to see. c'mon... c'mon. don't be such a wuss. be bold.

speaker1: no way on. no way off. 
speaker1: this is bad. really, really bad.

speaker1: got to drink. got to drink something. 
speaker1: they don't belong to you.

speaker1: don't leave home without it. 
speaker1: yuck.
speaker1: yumm.

speaker1: water, water, everywhere, water, water everywhere... 
speaker1: where's the water on this island?
speaker1: just rest a minute.

speaker1: a crab, it's a crab. 
speaker1: 
speaker1: i did it. i did it!
speaker1: 
speaker1: stupid thing!
speaker1: i don't know what i did, but whatever is was, i am really, really sorry. you hear me? really sorry.

speaker1:  
speaker1: come on. come on.
speaker1: no. no. no.

speaker1: careful now, careful... 
speaker1: yes! yes! yes!
speaker1: if i ever forgot to thank you and i am sure i did, thank you now.

speaker1: beautiful. so beautiful. 
speaker1: a star. it's a star.
speaker1: it's a ship.
speaker1: timberrr!
speaker1: i heard that...

speaker1: no more waiting. take action. 
speaker1: that's right. take action.
speaker1: how could i be so stupid?
speaker1: stupid, stupid, stupid.

speaker1: you're too low in the water. too low. 
speaker1: dust thou art -- that's for sure -- and unto dust shalt thou return.
speaker1: 

speaker1: please...please...please... 
speaker1: firewood. i need firewood.

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker1: hang on. just hang on.

speaker1: chips? dip? 
speaker1: no?
speaker1: another day in paradise.

speaker1: a sail is moving steadily away from the island. 
speaker2: throws down the spear and waves his arms.
speaker2: no! wait! come back!
speaker2: wait! wait!

speaker1: you old airhead, you need a makeover. 
speaker1: wilson, you bad!
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker1: you don't share much, do you?
speaker1: i guess i know how kelly felt.
speaker1: you said our life was a prison. dull. boring. empty. i can't begin to tell you how much that hurt. i don't want to lose you. i'm enclosing some salsa, the verde you like. use it on your sticky rice and think of home. then come home -- to me. we'll find the spice in our lives again. together. i love you. always. bettina.
speaker1: he never got it.

speaker1: now i'm hoping that if this is airtight i'll get condensation down here, a cup or so a day. if i'm careful it should be enough. 
speaker1: if i never return, know that here lived chuck noland for four years. i drew these paintings. i made these marks. and then i took my fate in my own hands and set forth to save myself, willing.

speaker1: wilson, my main man. time to go. and he gently leads the raft into the lagoon. 
speaker1: wonder what odds stan would give me on this. i'd say 90-10. against.

speaker1: slow down, you! 
speaker1: catch it catch it catch it --

speaker1: save some for tomorrow. 
speaker2: catch another fish tomorrow.

speaker1:  
speaker2: stay calm, identify the problem. problem, rope fraying. solution, fix rope.
speaker1: with what? there's nothing to fix it with. this rope comes undone, you're going to drown.
speaker3: just get up and fix it.
speaker1: too tired.
speaker2: get up.
speaker1: feels so good to lie here.
speaker2: get up, you.
speaker1: can't. need water.
speaker2: you've had today's water.
speaker1: thirsty.
speaker2: come on, shape up, get going, you can do it.
speaker1: no water, no work.
speaker2: okay look, i know you're tired, i know you're thirsty, but give it one more shot, you've just got to do a little more.
speaker1: do too much, i'll die.
speaker2: do too little you'll die.
speaker1: going to die anyway.
speaker2: okay, look have an extra swallow.
speaker1: no more water, you said.
speaker2: take it.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: take it, it.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: wilson, do you believe this? take the water.
speaker2: stop. enough.
speaker2: think. got to use something else.
speaker1: if they can't see you, what's the point?
speaker2: survive today, that's the point.

speaker1: polaris, where are you? maybe i'm too far south. 
speaker2: you don't know where you are. you missed the shipping lanes.
speaker1: moon's too bright.

speaker1: you're putting off the inevitable. 
speaker2: i'm putting it off.
speaker1: that's what's happening to you.
speaker1: you're rotting away.
speaker1: get water!
speaker2: fix raft first.
speaker1: water water water --

speaker1: you like that? 
speaker1: lost your mate?
speaker1: you're beautiful. marry me.
speaker2: you if he dives, he'll capsize the raft.
speaker1: no, don't go. look, i've got fish.
speaker1: please don't dive. please.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: can't kill another one. can't. can't kill my friends anymore.
speaker1: you bleeding heart, you kill or you die.
speaker2: why do they have to die for me?
speaker1: they'd eat you if they could. they're laughing at you. listen.
speaker2: got to eat.
speaker2: i am so sorry.

speaker1: i'm an angel. 
speaker1: here! here!
speaker1: no...no...no...

speaker1: stop! 
speaker1: you murderers!
speaker1: i know you're talking about me! he splashes the water with his oar.
speaker1: take me with you.
speaker1: why me? why me, god?
speaker2: listen to this, wilson. because you me off.

speaker1: you're falling apart. 
speaker1: first you eat your fat, then you eat your muscle. he rolls over.
speaker1: then you eat your mind.
speaker2: roll on you deep and dark blue ocean roll.
speaker2: i'm late, i'm late, for a very important date. they slowly close again.
speaker1: i'm lost. goodbye.
speaker2: no!
speaker1: look, just slip off the raft. the ocean would feel so good, the water's so soft and warm. take a little swim. sleep.
speaker2: you quitter you quitter you quitter.
speaker1: the sea is lovely, dark and deep.
speaker2: but i have promises to keep. and miles to go before i sleep. and miles to go before i sleep. got to fix the sea anchor. use the sail.
speaker1: use the sail for a sea anchor and you won't move.
speaker2: if i don't have a sea anchor i'll capsize.
speaker1: die tomorrow or die today.
speaker1: that's death knocking, knocking on your door. crazy little woman come knocking, knocking at my front door...
speaker2: grow up, stop being such a baby. other people get through a lot worse.
speaker1: yeah, sure, what?
speaker1: i'm so tired, my mind is on the blink...
speaker2: what? are you sacrificing yourself for me?

speaker1: it! i had to do it! 
speaker1: i'm sorry!
speaker1: i know there's a moral here, but right now i'm just going to eat.
speaker1: forgot to say grace. sorry mom.
speaker1: bless us o lord, and these thy gifts and christ and the bounty about to receive, or something...amen. he eats them.

speaker1: please don't leak. please. 
speaker1: don't look at me. it was that dorado.
speaker1: you know, wilson, every now and then we should say thank you. thank you
speaker2: thank you for up my life.
speaker1: not again.
speaker2: he's going to get you, going to get you...
speaker1: get away from me!
speaker1: get him get him get him.
speaker1: where are you? where are you?
speaker1: stop! you're using energy. move slowly. be patient.
speaker2: what are you smiling about? they'll be back.
speaker1: i'm dancing on the roof of the peabody hotel. with kelly.
speaker1: the music ends. we go back to the table. the waiters have brought dinner. new york strip with bordelaise sauce. mushrooms in brown gravy. roasted potatoes with garlic and rosemary. green beans with almonds. fresh biscuits and cornbread, dripping with butter. a nice salad with ranch dressing. a jumbo shrimp cocktail. thinks about that, it spoils the picture.
speaker1: no shrimp. we eat.
speaker1: for dessert, we have pecan pie a la mode, we have a double chocolate cake with creme anglaise, we have a nice pear torte, fresh key lime pie, or perhaps if you care to wait a few minutes, a grand marnier souffle?
speaker1: why, bring them all, bring them all.
speaker1: here! over here!
speaker3: oh, shiiiittt!
speaker3: permission to come aboard, sir.
speaker4: permission granted.
speaker3: may i ask, where are you bound?
speaker4: san francisco. and you?
speaker3: as it happens, i'm headed for frisco myself.
speaker4: would you do us the honor of joining us? we're just sitting down at mess. pork chops and gravy, cranberries, baked potatoes with all the trimmings, fresh- baked bread, apple pie...
speaker3: no please, join me. some sundried fish strips, a few eyeballs, some gills to munch on.
speaker2: they're never going to see you. you're just another piece of trash in the ocean.
speaker1: they're on autopilot.
speaker2: they're always on autopilot. or else it's night, or you're in the sun, or you're in the trough of a wave. they'll never see you.
speaker1: it! don't be so negative!
speaker1: wilson, what's your story?
speaker2: i float. you sink. end of story.
speaker1: i'm serious. i'm always going on about me, me, me. enough about me. your turn.
speaker2: it's a soccer ball, you
speaker1: shut up. he lies on the raft and holds wilson close.

speaker1: don't shirk, don't procrastinate, don't be lazy. we're okay today. we're okay today. 
speaker1: shut up.
speaker1: shut the up! i mean it.
speaker1: what's so funny?
speaker2: you are.
speaker1: 
speaker2: look again, it's a mirage.
speaker1: it's real.
speaker2: nothing out there but ocean.
speaker1: let's get a second opinion. wilson? what do you see?
speaker3: chuck noland. born october 8, 1958. died -- pick a date -- july 11, 1998. and now the epitaph. met deadlines. kept appointments. lost without a trace.
speaker2: what did it matter if fedex was five minutes late one day? the next day we just start over again.
speaker1: it matters. we do the best we can, that's all we have.
speaker2: then we've just got
speaker3: i am writing this to remind myself to live a better life. if i am lost, perhaps you who find this will be instructed to live a better live yourself. live each day. love your children. don't take anyone for granted.
speaker2: is that it? life is a disney movie?

speaker1: you can't make it. 
speaker2: shut up. i don't feel like dying today.

speaker1: please, no sharks. 
speaker1: 
speaker1: wilson!
speaker1: wilson! nothing but waves.

speaker1: my favorite doctor. what's the verdict? 
speaker2: under the circumstances your overall health is good. those salt water boils you picked up on the raft are ulcerated, but they're healing nicely.
speaker2: hemoglobin's 10.8 -- you're anemic, that's why we're giving you iron. potassium's low -- we're giving you an electrolyte solution with your iv. sodium's over 150, way too high. you may experience swelling in your extremities as you rehydrate and discharge the salt. in spite of your dietary deficiencies there's no sign of mental deterioration.
speaker2: what's so funny.
speaker1: sorry...sorry... why do my joints still ache?
speaker2: dehydration. vitamin deficiency. protein deficiency. any or all of the above.
speaker1: all i ate was fish. that's solid protein.
speaker2: protein digestion is very costly in water usage.
speaker1: which i didn't have.
speaker2: and fish are very low in fat, which is energy inefficient. so you're going to burn up your own cells no matter how much you eat. luckily you ate the eyes and pancreas, which contain some vitamin c, so you didn't get scurvy.
speaker1: i am one lucky guy.
speaker2: your body chemistry and your exposure to the elements would normally lead to irritability, depression, anxiety, periods of self-reproach. it's almost like schizophrenia. different sides of your personality might come to life, speak out, act out.
speaker1: but all that's behind me. i'm fine now.
speaker2: if you say you are.
speaker1: i most definitely say i am.
speaker2: doctor hegel tells me he discussed the vietnam pow syndrome with you.
speaker1: yes, yes he did.
speaker2: you are aware of the potential disruptiveness on your loved ones when you return to your old life?
speaker1: not to mention on me.
speaker2: you sure you don't want some counseling? chuck gives his biggest smile.
speaker1: doc, i'm not on the island. i'm not on the raft. i'm alive. i'm so glad to be back, i can't tell you. i just want out of here.
speaker2: well, when that iv runs out, you're through with us. just the dentist tomorrow.

speaker1: hello. 
speaker1: hello? hello?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: stan, it's chuck...chuck noland...
speaker1: whoever you are, you are one sick and again we hear the dial tone.
speaker2: two valium and the rolling stones. that ring a bell?
speaker1: chuck, it's you!
speaker2: it's me.
speaker1: you're dead!
speaker2: i'm most definitely not dead. and as i recall, you're the sick

speaker1: you sure you don't want to have the implant done here? we do quite good work. 
speaker1: hmmm, you do have such a lot of tarter behind these front incisors. a little wider, please.
speaker1: anyway, so the second prosthetic foot worked better, but he still couldn't drive his new cortina, it being a standard shift, if you follow me.
speaker1: but would he hear of me driving him around? not on your life. rinse please.
speaker2: chuck!
speaker2: 
speaker2: you're alive, you're alive!
speaker3: i beat the odds!
speaker2: you beat 'em to pal!
speaker1: i still need to floss you.
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: this is amber. her boyfriend lost his foot in a shark attack.
speaker1: ex-boyfriend.
speaker2: really.
speaker2: uh, there's somebody out here who wants to see you.
speaker2: she thought you were dead. we all did.

speaker1: i'm sorry... i'm sorry... 
speaker2: hey...hey...it's okay!
speaker1: you're so thin. am i hurting you?
speaker2: no...no...feels good...
speaker1: right back, you said you'd be right back.
speaker2: a few things came up. or went down.
speaker2: you look...wonderful. i like your hair.
speaker1: i got married.
speaker2: i thought you might have.
speaker1: i would never --
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: if i'd known you were alive --
speaker2: i would have done the same thing.
speaker1: i didn't want to. it just happened. one day gary was there. he took care of everything. he took care of me. i was a mess.
speaker2: you have any children?
speaker2: got a picture?
speaker1: her name's hannah.
speaker2: is that jango?
speaker1: no, this is jack. jango was hit by a ups truck. can you believe it? chuck laughs. it is funny, sort of.
speaker2: life's just one big joke after another.
speaker3: how about we go somewhere else?
speaker2: want to see my raft?

speaker1: this stinks really bad. 
speaker2: you should have smelled me.
speaker1: cool ropes.
speaker2: i braided them.
speaker1: must have taken a of a long time.
speaker2: time i had lots of.
speaker3: what's that?
speaker2: that's my sea anchor. my second one. made it out of part of the sail. it keeps you from capsizing in a storm. in theory. and this, this i used to collect water. about half a cup a day.
speaker1: you were how long on this?
speaker2: forty-three days.
speaker3: all that time i waited to go on a cruise, and you went without me.
speaker2: yeah, well...couldn't be helped.
speaker3: what's that, written on the sail?
speaker2: my epitaph.
speaker2: bad body chemistry. made me a little morbid. but i'm all over that now.
speaker1: i'll be at the car. take you to the airport.
speaker3: i buried you, chuck. they had to pry my fingers off your coffin.
speaker2: there was a coffin?
speaker3: yeah, coffin, headstone, the whole thing.
speaker2: what was inside?
speaker3: your calendar, your cell phone, your whoo pig sooey hat, some pictures of that ketch you wanted.
speaker2: that about sums it up.
speaker3: maybe now's when you tell me about it.
speaker2: the plane went down. my friends died. i washed up on an island. then i found these barrels, built the raft, and here i am.
speaker3: yeah?
speaker2: the tide came in, the tide went out. i survived. that's the headline. i survived.
speaker3: don't overwhelm me with the details. you know how i hate that.
speaker3: come on. try.
speaker2: cliches, mainly. don't take anyone for granted. don't sweat the small stuff.
speaker3: so simple to say, so hard to do.
speaker2: not when you have no choice.
speaker3: you hated being alone. couldn't stand it. busy every minute. always plugged into something.
speaker2: i didn't know what really being alone was. no one back here does.
speaker2: we're not meant to be alone. not like that. share life, that's what came to me out there. be with someone.
speaker3: this is so unfair.
speaker2: that's what i told the fish i caught. but i ate them anyway.
speaker3: you okay?
speaker2: great. really.
speaker3: what will you do?
speaker2: i don't know. i really don't know.
speaker3: i've got to get back to memphis.
speaker2: it means a lot...that you came.
speaker3: i had to come. to be sure you were okay. they hold each other. for a long time.
speaker3: i love you, chuck.
speaker2: you too.
speaker3: i'm so glad you're alive.
speaker2: you too.

speaker1: when i first showed up, i thought you'd lost your marbles. 
speaker2: i never thought it would end. then it did. it was so great to be saved, i couldn't stop laughing.
speaker1: you need a drink.
speaker2: for years my only drinking buddy was a soccer ball. wilson.
speaker1: to wilson.
speaker2: to wilson.
speaker1: so, what's it all about?
speaker1: you've been over the line and you came back. you've been saved, hallelujah!
speaker2: hallelujah.
speaker1: i'm serious. the burning bush, the big picture, the words in neon...
speaker2: what's it all about? it's about being so thirsty you'd crush a fish's backbone to out the spinal fluid -- that's what it's about. stan sits back, repulsed but relieved.
speaker1: do what it takes. that's what i always told you.
speaker1: to life. 'em if they can't take a joke.
speaker2: to life.
speaker1: that's all there is.
speaker2: believe me i know.
speaker2: but it's not being bold or being in the game or rolling the dice.
speaker2: when i was going crazy, on the raft, i'd argue with myself about everything. because everything had a price. to get anything -- a sip of water, a little corner of shade, an hour's sleep -- i had to let go of something else. and then i could never get it back. he thinks some more.
speaker2: you don't win or lose. you win and lose. he looks out the window.
speaker2: you win and lose.

speaker1: smile. 
speaker1: wave.
speaker2: oh chuck --
speaker3: where's mom?
speaker4: waiting for you. at the farm. this was too much -- he looks around at the crowds.
speaker3: tell me about it.
speaker4: glad you made it, big brother.
speaker3: wow. thank you. great. thank you. hey, rasheed, how you doing? thank you all.

speaker1: welcome home. 
speaker1: this is an extraordinary moment. and it should be marked in an extraordinary way. with something we have never done since this company was founded. stop the line!

speaker1: four years ago we placed this plaque in honor of charles noland, and two just like it in honor of al morris and john durham, the two brave pilots who went down with him. 
speaker1: chuck endured years of hardship and loneliness. like lazarus, chuck has come back from the dead. chuck, this is your family, all of us. so it gives me great pleasure...to take this plaque...and to present it to our long lost son. welcome home.
speaker2: thank you. thank you very much...
speaker2: give me a minute. i've spent four years looking out at an empty ocean.
speaker2: it's all so -- big. you never think you'll miss -- all this. but i did. i really, really did. and i missed all of you.
speaker2: you've added some new belts, and what's that?
speaker3: digital laser readers.
speaker2: digital laser readers. wow. terrific.
speaker2: i've never heard it this quiet. shouldn't you all be getting back to work?

speaker1: take your time. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: that's what it's about.
speaker2: being patient. don't rush things. i get it.
speaker1: not just that. take your time. use it.
speaker2: deep, real deep.
speaker2: so where to? the office? the hotel? the beach?
speaker2: what, then?
speaker1: deliver this package. then, i dunno.
speaker2: you want that delivered, we'll deliver it. that's what we do.
speaker1: i need to do it.
speaker2: finish what you started. you haven't changed, chuck. it's still you.
speaker1: you want to help, help me find the woman who sent this.

speaker1: okay. after three years the ptr reverts to tape storage, which is okay because we access it through the cpc. here it is. ten packages from the same sender. baku. delhi. st. petersburg. the guy was a real road warrior. this package was kuala lampur. no activity in his account after this package. no forwarding addresses after k.l. 
speaker2: what about the sender?
speaker1: sure. bettina peterson. marfa, texas. let's run a current check.
speaker1: hmmm. durango, colorado; asheville, north carolina, then...canceled her account.
speaker2: can you find her?
speaker1: you're looking at a level iii search. for your level iii, you gotta have e-4 authorization. i don't have it.
speaker3: i do.
speaker1: okay, let's let it rip.
speaker2: thanks. for everything.
speaker3: no sweat.

speaker1: and here's more from dingo dodd, our australian correspondent, on the extraordinary story of chuck noland, the modern robinson crusoe. 
speaker2: shark infested waters! a deserted island! surrounded by reefs! accessible only by helicopter! for four years chuck noland survived here alone, eating fish, coconuts and clams, his only companion a soccer ball.
speaker2: i'm now in chuck's cave where he passed the lonely nights, painting on the walls like some prehistoric caveman. what did chuck feel? these paintings tell the story, but only chuck knows what they mean. and he's not talking. on the screen we see a photograph of chuck.
speaker3: check, please.
speaker4: no charge, honey. but could you just sign that place mat for me?

speaker1: when'd you start working here? 
speaker2: roger got me on. i wasn't doing anything, and -- but you're back, you're really back. i would have come to memphis, but --
speaker1: i wanted to come here.

speaker1: have some more potato salad. 
speaker2: that was great, mom, just great.
speaker2: i've got all this back pay coming. why don't you let me get you a place in town?
speaker1: this is my home. i'm part of the wallpaper.
speaker1: you miss it, don't you? you miss that island.
speaker2: miss that island? mom, come on.
speaker1: what a journey you've had. it seems more than a person should have to bear.
speaker2: the tide saved me, mom. i lived by it. i'm just wondering where it will take me next.
speaker1: remember the family motto. in time. it will come to you, in time.

speaker1: fedex for bettina peterson. 
speaker2: where did you get that?
speaker1: charles noland. fedex special projects.
speaker2: you came on a bicycle? no wonder it's so late.
speaker1: there was an unavoidable delay.
speaker2: well, i have to say, i'm impressed. you never gave up.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you know what happened to this?
speaker1: as much as anybody.
speaker2: want to come in? get dry for a minute.
speaker1: okay. sure.

speaker1: it's good. 
speaker2: hmmm. feels like it might have gotten wet.
speaker1: possible. so you did those wings?
speaker2: yeah. a long time ago.
speaker1: they're harder to do than they look.
speaker2: oh? you've tried?
speaker1: well, i do a little drawing --
speaker1: our apologies that it never made it to the recipient.
speaker2: he was a sorry and i'm sorry i ever married him.
speaker2: you look familiar.
speaker2: i can't believe this. i -- i -- they are... you're a gifted artist. you're into something very powerful. primal.
speaker1: well, not really, i --
speaker2: you are. yes you are. what gave you the idea to paint on that cave?
speaker1: to tell you the truth -- you did.
speaker2: do you...have any more packages to deliver?
speaker1: no. that was the last one.
speaker2: just sit here, i'll get us some lunch.
speaker3: hey.
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: in here!

speaker1: come back anytime. coffee's always on. 
speaker2: that was my last one.
speaker3: the list of paints and brushes i did for you. he takes it, not exactly sure he wants it.
speaker3: keep painting. promise me.
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: need some help? 
speaker2: you bet i do. high tide comes right up to this road.

speaker1: hey, thanks. i'd never have got that out by myself. looks at his uniform. at the bike. 
speaker1: you're not out of pascagoula, are you?
speaker2: no.
speaker2: i used to drive one of those. a long time ago.
speaker1: hey, once a driver, always a driver. you want a lift? i've just got one more pickup.
speaker2: sure.

speaker1: you're chuck noland. 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: i knew it! you're a legend! mr.
speaker2: well --
speaker4: i knew i recognized you. my name's erica.
speaker4: did you really steal a crippled kid's bicycle to make your deliveries, or is that just some story?
speaker2: i didn't steal it, and he wasn't crippled.
speaker4: otherwise it's completely true.
speaker2: yeah, completely.
speaker4: what brings you out to the sticks?
speaker2: had a package to deliver.
speaker4: you? personally?
speaker2: i had it on the island with me.
speaker4: must be a story there.

speaker1: yeah, a long one. 
speaker2: i've got lots of time.
speaker1: so do i.
speaker1: so do i.

