speaker1: is this the last one? 
speaker2: what a mess... at least there's no gangrene.
speaker1: there will be if it doesn't come off.
speaker2: well i can't saw if i can't keep my eyes open. let's coffee up... he can wait a few more minutes.

speaker1: lieutenant... izat you? 
speaker1: what're you doing here lieutenant?
speaker2: this is where i belong... this is my outfit.
speaker1: you went to hospital?
speaker2: it was no good... what's going on here?
speaker1: better come to cover lieutenant... those boys are shooters.
speaker1: what's goin' on here... seems to be the question alright... you could ask the major but he don't know. he's busy tryin' to figger out how come the officer's mess run outta peach ice cream...
speaker1: general's come up to see the show but all he knows is there ain't no show...
speaker1: we started a balloon up but they shot her down fore she was ten feet off the ground... so nobody's made a run either way. it's been a stand- off all day... and now... the major, he's lookin' at the general and he's thinkin' i better do somethin', and you know what that means...
speaker1: they're 'sposed to be beat up just like us but everybody knows that tucker's men are tough as cobs. i sure don't wanna die out there with them cows.

speaker1: what is it sir? 
speaker2: looks like a suicide.

speaker1: alright by me. 
speaker1: forgive me father.

speaker1: don't take off my foot. 
speaker2: you rest easy son... you'll keep you're foot. as is my judge, you'll keep it.
speaker2: bring up my ambulance...
speaker3: sir?
speaker2: bring up my ambulance. and bring my surgeon with it. we've got an officer who's worth something lying here.

speaker1: where can i find major... fambrough? 
speaker2: turn right... all the way to the end of the hall.
speaker3: lt. john j. dunbar.
speaker1: sir?

speaker1: lt. john j. dunbar. 
speaker2: yes sir?
speaker1: indian fighter, huh?
speaker2: excuse me?
speaker1: i did not ascend to this position by being stupid.
speaker2: no sir.
speaker1: it says here you've been decorated.
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: and they sent you out here to be posted?
speaker2: actually sir, i'm here at my own request... i want to see the frontier.
speaker1: you want to see the frontier?
speaker2: yes sir... before it's gone.
speaker1: such a smart lad coming straight to me.
speaker1: sir knight, i am sending you on a knight's errand. you will report to captain cargill at the furthermost outpost of the realm... fort sedgewick.
speaker1: my personal seal will assure you safe passage through many miles of wild hostile country.
speaker2: i'm wondering sir, how will i be getting there?
speaker1: you think i don't know?
speaker2: no sir, it's just that i don't know.
speaker1: hold your tongue.
speaker1: i'm in a generous mood and will grant your boon. you see that peasant... he calls himself timmons... he leaves this very afternoon for your fort sedgewick. ride with him if you like... he knows the way. that is all.
speaker1: sir knight...
speaker1: i just in my pants... and nobody can do anything about it.

speaker1: noooo, noooo... 
speaker2: it's alright major.
speaker3: leave him alone lieutenant... he's cracked.
speaker1: nooo, nooo...
speaker2: don't sergeant.
speaker1: are you deaf fool. i said i'll have my crown this instant... this instant!
speaker2: let's have the pistol.
speaker3: don't do it.
speaker1: the king is dead... long live the king.

speaker1: we have been gone four days now and still we have seen no signs of life. only earth and sky. 
speaker1: how far do you make the fort?
speaker2: far.
speaker1: how far?
speaker2: forty or fifty miles, maybe... what's the big hurry on sedgewick?
speaker1: it's going to be my post... my home.
speaker2: you ain't hard to please, i'll say that.
speaker2: look yonder.

speaker1: corporal guest... corporal guest... corporal guest. corporal guest, you don't have to talk to me... just please come out. 
speaker1: it's the end... assemble the men in front of my quarters.

speaker1: timmons... timmons. 
speaker1: timmons.
speaker1: something's out there...
speaker2: somethin' dead.
speaker1: might have a look.
speaker2: might stay clear of whatever did the killin'.

speaker1: how come we haven't seen any buffalo? 
speaker2: can't figger the stinkin' buffalo. sometimes you don't see 'em for days, sometimes they're thick as curls on a whore.
speaker1: what about indians?
speaker2: indians you'd jus' as soon not see, lessen the bastards're dead. nothing but thieves and beggars.

speaker1: ain't nothin' here lieutenant. 
speaker1: everybody's run off... or got kilt.
speaker2: alright...lets unload the wagon.
speaker1: what, and leave it all here?
speaker2: i'm staying too... we don't know what's happened. dunbar moves around to the back of the wagon.
speaker1: there ain't nothin' here lieutenant.
speaker2: not at the moment, no.
speaker1: so things bein' the way they are we might as well turn around and get started back.
speaker2: this is my post...
speaker1: this is my... are you crazy boy?
speaker2: this is my post! and these are the post's provisions. now get your off that wagon and help me unload.

speaker1: well... i'll let 'em know where you are. 
speaker2: good.
speaker1: good luck lieutenant.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: only a white man would make a fire for everyone to see. 
speaker2: maybe there's more than one.
speaker3: we have no rifles. white men are sure to have rifles.
speaker4: we should forget this and go home.
speaker5: then go. i for one, will not debate the merit of a single line of smoke in my own country.
speaker2: he will not quit until we are all dead.

speaker1: no sign of captain cargill's command. i don't know what to do. communication can only take place if i leave and i don't want to abandon my post. 
speaker1: made a short patrol yesterday p.m... discovered nothing. will go further tomorrow.

speaker1: almost a month and no one has come. the longer this condition persists, the less inclined i am to believe that anyone will. rain has forced me indoors for most of two days. i have begun an awning. the work has ruined my hands, but i am excited about the improvement it will bring to this place. 
speaker1: it is the loneliest of times... but i cannot say that i am unhappy.

speaker1: have made all the preparations i can think of. i cannot mount an adequate defense but will try to make a big impression when they come. waiting. 
speaker1: the man i encountered was a magnificent looking fellow.

speaker1: kicking bird has been keeping to himself these last few days. i do not like to see our medicine man walking so alone. 
speaker1: what does his wife say?
speaker2: he is keeping to himself.
speaker2: that's what she says.
speaker1: make sure that meat is soft... my teeth hurt.

speaker1: may i come in? 
speaker1: no, no let him sit with me.
speaker1: our country seems good this summer, but i have not been out to see it.
speaker2: yes... it is good. the grass is rich. the game is plenty and not running away.
speaker1: i am glad to hear it. but the buffalo are late. i always worry about the bellies of our children.
speaker2: i was thinking of a dance.
speaker1: yes, a dance is always a good idea. it would be good to have a strong sign.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: there's a funny thing about signs. they are always flying in our faces. we know when they are bad or good but sometimes they are strange and there is no way to understand them. sometimes they make people crazy but a smart man will take such a sign into himself and let it run around for two or three days. if he is still confused he will tell somebody. he might come to you or to me and tell it. a smart man always does that.
speaker2: i have seen such a sign.
speaker1: oh?
speaker2: i saw a man, a white man.
speaker1: just one?
speaker2: just one. he was naked.
speaker1: are you sure it was a man?
speaker2: i saw his sex.
speaker1: did you speak to him?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: we will council on this.

speaker1: he might be a or he might be a special chief -- that's why we are thinking of having a talk with him. 
speaker2: i do not care for this talk about a white man. whatever kind of white man he is, he is not sioux and that makes him less. we've camped here for ten days now and each day our scouts find nothing. one old bull with wolves tearing him apart, nothing more. we need meat -- not talk.
speaker1: you are right, we need meat today and tomorrow. but we must also have meat in ten years.
speaker1: but the whites are coming. our friends the shoshone and the kiowa, even our enemies, agree on this -- the whites are coming. more than can be counted.
speaker2: kicking bird is always looking ahead and that is good. but when i hear that more whites are coming -- more than can be counted i want to laugh. we took a hundred horses from these people, there was no honor in it. they don't ride well, they don't shoot well, they're dirty. they have no women, no children. they could not even make it through one winter in our country. and these people are said to flourish? i think they will all be dead in ten years.
speaker2: i think this white man is probably lost.
speaker1: wind in his hair has spoken straight, his words are strong and i have heard them. it's true the whites are a poor race and it's hard to understand them. but when i see one white man alone, without fear in our country, i do not think he is lost. i think he may have medicine. i see someone who might speak for all the white people who are coming. i think this is a person with which treaties might be struck.
speaker2: this white man cannot cover our lodges, or string our bows, or feed our children. i will take some good men... there are many here tonight. we will ride to the soldier fort, we will shoot some arrows into this white man. if he truly has medicine he will not be hurt. if he has no medicine he will be dead.
speaker3: it is easy to become confused by these questions. it is hard to know what to do. no man can tell another how he will be. but i know this... killing a white man is a delicate matter. if you kill one, more are sure to come. we should talk about this some more.

speaker1: what's the matter now? 
speaker2: otter doesn't want to go.
speaker1: if we take the horse of a white they will make up songs about us.
speaker3: maybe.
speaker1: they will ask us to go on raids.
speaker3: who gets the white horse?
speaker1: i do... but we share... you and worm can ride him too. who can say this is not a great plan?

speaker1: let me take him otter. 
speaker2: i have him.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: i don't know. my arm doesn't work.
speaker1: you shouldn't have fallen down... now we'll get in trouble.
speaker2: it was your idea.
speaker1: my idea was only to take the horse.
speaker1: otter hurt himself.
speaker2: you're not hurt... i'm hurt.
speaker3: i will be when my father finds out, his bow will be across my back.

speaker1: the party that went against the pawnee is coming in... 
speaker1: there are many hearts on the ground.

speaker1: wait... 
speaker1: wait... you're hurt.
speaker1: let me help you.
speaker1: you're hurt... you need help.
speaker2: don't...

speaker1: she's hurt. 
speaker2: you are not welcome here.
speaker2: go away from us...
speaker2: go away from us... go now.

speaker1: i am in agreement with kicking bird. we will go down and talk to the white man and find out what kind of white man he is. wind in his hair jumps into the conversation. 
speaker2: if this council decides to talk with the man at the soldier fort then it will be so. but in my mind it is not right that a sioux chief, a chief as great as ten bears, goes to ask the business of a puny, trespassing white man... a white soldier who has only a smart horse and a few white man clothes.
speaker1: i will not go... you will go... you and kicking bird. that is all i have to say.

speaker1: welcome... come... please... sit down. 
speaker1: would you like some coffee? coffee?
speaker1: i'll get some cups.

speaker1: is the coffee not good? too strong maybe? here... 
speaker1: do you want some?
speaker1: so what are you guys doing? looking for buffalo?
speaker1: he's a good one... good horse. my horse.
speaker1: good horse.
speaker1: my horse. you see any buffalo?
speaker1: wait just a bit.
speaker2: his mind is gone.
speaker3: buffalo.
speaker1: buffalo?
speaker3: buffalo.
speaker1: buffalo.
speaker1: buffalo.

speaker1: they have come again, as always the same two with an of six. 
speaker2: have you seen any buffalo? dunbar can only shake his head no. kicking bird accepts this and dismounts.

speaker1: i believe i am dealing with kiowa indians as i have heard that word on several occasions. 
speaker1: i am learning the kiowa words for head, hand, horse, fire, coffee, buffalo, hello and goodbye.

speaker1: no, i haven't seen any buffalo. are you hungry? i have food... are you hungry? 
speaker2: he waved.
speaker1: nothing i have been told about these people is correct. they are not beggars and thieves. they are not the bogeymen they have been made out to be.

speaker1: stands with a fist. 
speaker1: we will talk awhile.

speaker1: your wounds are healing well? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you are happy here, with my family?
speaker2: i am glad to be here. i am missing my husband.
speaker1: perhaps you will marry again when the time is right.
speaker2: perhaps.
speaker1: we have word from many places that the whites are...
speaker1: they are coming into everyone's country. they will soon be in ours i think. this white man who lives at the old soldier fort, the one who calls himself loo ten tant... i have visited him and i believe his heart is a good one. he knows things about the whites which we do not.
speaker2: i am afraid of the man at the fort.
speaker1: he is only one man.
speaker2: i am afraid that he will tell some whites that i am here. i am afraid that they will try to take me away.
speaker1: every warrior in camp would fight them if they tried.
speaker1: i cannot make the white man talk. loo ten tant does not know sioux.
speaker1: you have a certain medicine which no other sioux -- man or woman -- has.
speaker2: it has been a long time since i made the talk.
speaker1: i do not ask this for myself... i ask this for all our people.
speaker2: it's dead in me.
speaker1: i want you to try and remember the the word.
speaker2: i don't know how.
speaker1: you don't want to know.

speaker1: will she make the white words? 
speaker2: perhaps i am asking too much.

speaker1: christine... where are you? 
speaker2: i'm right here mother...
speaker1: get inside both of you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: just do what i... oh stay where you are. keep down do you hear me?
speaker2: who is it willie?
speaker3: they look like pawnee... my father and your father are talking to them.
speaker3: run christine...
speaker2: why?
speaker3: just run!
speaker3: run!

speaker1: buffalo... 
speaker1: buffalo... buffalo.
speaker2: buffalo?
speaker1: yes. buffalo.
speaker2: the buffalo have come.

speaker1: help... 
speaker1: help me... please... i need to get out. someone is coming up the slope.

speaker1: i wish i knew what to say. 
speaker2: say... thank you.
speaker2: his speed... his power... you have.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: look i'm full... i can't tell the story again. 
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker1: you want to try... put it on.
speaker1: here.
speaker1: this is too much... i can't take this...
speaker1: i can't... no more...
speaker2: one more... eat...
speaker1: i can't, i'm full... very full...

speaker1: that's my hat. 
speaker1: my hat.
speaker2: i found it on the prairie. it's mine.
speaker3: that hat belongs to my friend here.
speaker2: he left it on the prairie. he didn't want it.
speaker3: you can see that he wants it now.
speaker3: we all know that is a soldier hat. we all know who wears it. if you want to keep it that's alright. but give something for it.
speaker3: good trade.
speaker1: yes, it's good. but, i have to sleep.

speaker1: where is loo ten tant? 
speaker2: i ate him.
speaker2: i traded for it.
speaker1: does it scratch the skin?
speaker2: a little. but do you see how good it looks. everyone says it looks good. everyone.

speaker1: they asked me to dance... 
speaker1: i was just dancing...

speaker1: go home. 
speaker1: him.

speaker1: c'mon two socks... you can't go... so go home. 
speaker1: alright then, don't go home. but stay... stay right here.
speaker1: you go home.

speaker1: you were right about loo ten tant -- he is a special white man. 
speaker2: yes, he is special... he should have a real name.

speaker1: not everyone thinks it is a good idea that he is here. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: kicking bird has business with the white man. let him do it.

speaker1: we were waiting for you. 
speaker2: hullo. you here... good.
speaker3: thank you... i feel good.
speaker2: he thanks you. it is good.
speaker1: ask him why he is at the soldier fort.
speaker2: uhh... you... come...
speaker3: wait... what is your name?
speaker2: our... names?
speaker1: what does he say?
speaker2: he wants to know how we are called.
speaker1: ahhh... he's right. i'm sorry.
speaker2: he... he... kick...
speaker3: kick?
speaker2: more.
speaker3: kicking?
speaker2: kicking... yes... kicking... bird.
speaker3: kicking bird... what does he... is he a chief?
speaker2: hul... hal... ho-lee... holy... holy man.
speaker3: oh...
speaker3: your name... you.
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker3: up? get up?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: stand.
speaker2: yes... stands.
speaker2: more... wiff... with.
speaker3: stands with a...
speaker3: fist?
speaker3: stands with a fist. i'm john... john dunbar.
speaker2: john dunbar.
speaker3: yes.

speaker1: i try to answer all of kicking bird's questions but i know he is frustrated with me. he always wants to know how many more white people are coming. i tell him that it is impossible for me to say. when he persists i tell him that the white people will most likely pass through this country and nothing more. 
speaker1: but i am speaking to him in half- truths. one day there will be too many, but i cannot bring myself to tell him that. i am sure that stands with a fist knows.

speaker1: a war party is going against the pawnee soon and i have asked to go. i sensed that i have made a mistake in doing so but i could not bring myself to take it back. they are my friends and from what little i gather the pawnee have been very hard on these people. i hope i have not overstepped my bounds. 
speaker1: i'm glad to see you... please sit.
speaker2: kicking bird wants to know why you want to make war on the pawnee. they have done nothing to you.
speaker1: they are sioux enemies.
speaker2: only sioux warriors will go.
speaker1: i asked that he would think about my going.
speaker2: he has.
speaker1: then tell him this. i have been a warrior for longer than many of the young men that will go on this war party. tell him.
speaker2: he says that the sioux way of being a warrior is not the white way. you are not ready.
speaker1: i know, i understand. but i cannot learn these ways in camp.
speaker2: he asks that you watch over his family while he is gone.
speaker1: i will be happy to watch over your family.
speaker2: he thanks dances with wolves for coming.
speaker1: who is dances with wolves?
speaker2: it is the name which everyone is calling you now.
speaker1: dances with wolves... that's right. how do you say it?
speaker2: dances with wolves.
speaker1: dances with wolves.

speaker1: keep on with the white man talk if it pleases you. 
speaker2: i like to make the white man talk.

speaker1: dances with wolves? 
speaker2: i'm here.

speaker1: grass grows on the prairie. 
speaker2: fire lives on the prairie.
speaker1: wrong.
speaker1: that man is a fighter.
speaker2: again.
speaker1: that man is a fighter.
speaker2: alright... i have it... that man...
speaker1: yes...
speaker2: is...
speaker2: a... bone!
speaker2: a bone... right?
speaker2: what is the word for beautiful?
speaker3: what are you doing here?
speaker1: it is hot. we are sitting in the shade.
speaker3: i'm hungry.
speaker1: alright.
speaker4: ...a bone.

speaker1: how is dances with wolves? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: how is he learning?
speaker2: he learns well... he is fast.

speaker1: you go for water? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: let us take you.

speaker1: how did you get your name? 
speaker2: i was not very old when i came to be with the people... i was made to work.
speaker2: i worked every day... very hard... there was a woman who didn't like me. she called me bad names... sometimes she beat me. one day she was calling me these bad names, her face in my face, and i hit her. i was not very big, but she fell down. she fell hard and didn't move. i stood over her with my fist and asked if any other woman wanted to call me bad names... no one bothered me after that day.
speaker1: i would not think so.
speaker1: show me where you hit her.
speaker1: why are you not married?
speaker2: i must go.
speaker1: i'm sorry. let me help...
speaker2: no.

speaker1: you are not talking today? 
speaker2: no, i'm not.

speaker1: some of your words are wrong... but you are learning fast. that is good. what can i tell you today? 
speaker2: i want to know about stands with a fist.
speaker1: what is your question?
speaker2: there is no man with her.
speaker1: she is in mourning.
speaker2: i do not understand "mourning".
speaker1: she is crying for someone.
speaker2: crying for who?
speaker1: it is not polite to speak of the dead... but i will tell you... you are new. she cries for her husband. he was killed not long ago.
speaker2: how long will she cry?
speaker1: it is kicking bird's place to say when she is finished.

speaker1: people are talking about you... 
speaker2: what are they saying?
speaker1: they are proud of the medicine you are making with dances with wolves.
speaker2: i have hurt him and i must go talk to him.
speaker1: you can't, he is gone.

speaker1: i am in mourning. 
speaker2: i know... stone calf told me.
speaker1: no one can know... we must be careful.
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: we must be careful.
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker2: nothin'.
speaker1: nothin'.
speaker4: we got a snake.
speaker5: we're gonna see if it can swim the river. you wanna come?
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: don't do that!

speaker1: pawnee... a big party... thirty or forty men. the kiowa hunters found them not far to the north. the pawnee are coming his way. soon they will find our camp. 
speaker2: stone calf... i follow you.
speaker3: the pawnee do not come for horses, they come for blood... and with many men gone, we are few.
speaker3: get your weapons and come to my lodge.
speaker1: i will go.
speaker2: stone calf... wait...
speaker2: i have guns... many far-shooting guns.

speaker1: no, the ride is long... the weather is bad. we can spare no men. 
speaker2: guns would make one warrior like two.
speaker1: take one man and go quickly.
speaker2: i will take smiles a lot.

speaker1: hear us now. a white soldier with many far-shooting guns... how would he fight the pawnee? 
speaker2: i would hide in the village.
speaker1: dances with wolves has not finished.
speaker2: i would let the enemy think we are asleep... let him come close. then we would shoot together and run to fight them, drive them into the river and kill so many that they would never trouble us again.
speaker1: i am of the same mind as dances with wolves... we should kill so many that they never trouble us again.

speaker1: i killed this one. 
speaker2: this one still breathes.
speaker3: dances with wolves...
speaker4: it was hard to know how to feel. i had never been in a battle like this one. this had not been a fight for territory or riches or to make men free. this battle had no ego. it had been fought to preserve the food stores that would see us through winter, to protect the lives of women and children and loved ones only a few feet away. i felt a pride i had never felt before.
speaker4: i shot this one.
speaker5: yes, i saw you shoot him.
speaker6: you killed that one too.
speaker4: i had never really known who john dunbar was. perhaps because the name itself had no meaning. but as i heard my sioux name being called over and over, i knew for the first time who i really was.

speaker1: there is gambling tonight... at horse back's lodge. horse back's games are always good. 
speaker2: i am tired... and horse back already has a good rifle of mine. thank you... goodnight.

speaker1: how long will stands with a fist mourn? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i hope it will not be too long.
speaker2: something has happened? well what?
speaker1: she has found love again.
speaker2: with who?
speaker1: dances with wolves.
speaker2: are you certain of this?
speaker1: when you see them together you will know. kicking bird stares wearily across the floor.
speaker2: what are people saying? they're not angry?
speaker1: no. they like the match. it makes sense. they are both white.
speaker2: i suppose i will be the one to say something.
speaker1: she's your daughter now.
speaker1: you can't see everything coming.

speaker1: stands with a fist. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you are no longer a widow.

speaker1: there's talk that you want to get married. 
speaker2: to who?
speaker3: to stands with a fist.
speaker1: that's the one isn't it?
speaker2: she's in mourning.
speaker3: not today.
speaker1: she has been released. kicking bird did it.
speaker2: he did?
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: kicking bird told me to wait.
speaker1: you might be waiting a long time. smiles a lot says he saw kicking bird riding on the prairie...
speaker1: he says he was talking to himself. when a medicine man is the last to know he can take it pretty hard.
speaker2: what do i do?
speaker1: you are pretty poor my friend and a sioux girl is not for free. i don't know if you can get married.
speaker2: i have the buckskin...
speaker1: that's too much medicine.
speaker2: do you think the buckskin is too much medicine?
speaker3: for a girl.
speaker1: maybe we can help you... wait here for us.

speaker1: turn around... 
speaker1: pretty good...
speaker1: you know, the man she mourned for was my best friend.
speaker2: i didn't know that.
speaker1: he was a good man. it's been hard for me. i am not the thinker kicking bird is. but i think he went away from her because you were coming. that is how i see it now.

speaker1: this is a good day for me. 
speaker2: and for me.
speaker1: stands with a fist... if you want this man, take his hand in yours.
speaker2: i had never been married before. i don't know if all grooms have the same experience. but as kicking bird began to speak about what was expected of a sioux husband, my mind began to swim in a way that shut out everything but her. the tiny details of her costume. the contours of her shape. the light in her eyes. the smallness of her feet. i knew that the love between us would be served.
speaker1: have you heard all that i have said?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: good, then take her inside... she is your wife.
speaker2: oh... good... thank you... goodbye...

speaker1: dances with wolves' door is closed alot these days. 
speaker2: they're trying to make a baby.
speaker3: i know that.
speaker2: you would think they could have made a baby by now.
speaker1: maybe they're having a hard time. some people have a hard time.
speaker2: i don't think they're having a hard time.
speaker3: me neither.
speaker3: maybe we should pull the smoke flap closed. then they would come out.
speaker4: dances with wolves, are you in there?
speaker4: i am riding today to a far away place. it is a place i haven't seen for a long time. a sacred place. i would like you to come with me.

speaker1: it's good to be out. 
speaker2: yes it must be.
speaker1: we are trying for a baby.
speaker2: no waiting?
speaker1: no waiting.
speaker2: i was just thinking that of all the trails in this life, there is one that matters more than all the others. it is the trail of a true human being. i think you are on this trail and it is good to see.

speaker1: it's quiet. 
speaker1: we must wait for these people...
speaker2: no, they've been gone a week maybe more... we will water the horses and go home.

speaker1: you have asked me many times about the white people... you always ask how many more are coming. 
speaker1: there will be a lot my friend... more than can be counted.
speaker2: help me to know how many.
speaker1: like the stars.
speaker1: it makes me afraid for all the sioux.

speaker1: it's hard to know what to do. 
speaker1: the men who wore this came in the time of my grandfather's grandfather. eventually, we drove them out. then the mexicans came. in my own time the whites came... the texans. they have been like all the others who find something they want in our country. they take it without asking. i have always been a peaceful man, happy to be in my own country and wanting nothing from the white people. nothing at all. but i think you are right. i think they will keep coming. when i think of that, i look at this bundle. our country is all that we want. we will fight to keep it.
speaker1: tomorrow morning we will strike the village and go to the winter camp.

speaker1: you have everything from the soldier fort? 
speaker2: no, there is nothing for me there.
speaker1: that's good.

speaker1: the words in the book are like a trail for people to follow. it tells everything about my life here. i must get it. 
speaker2: we cannot wait for you.
speaker1: i will catch up.

speaker1: something has happened... dances with wolves is not coming. 
speaker2: he must have trouble.
speaker1: pick two good men with fast ponies and send them back to the soldier fort.

speaker1: spivey... 
speaker2: yessir sergeant...
speaker3: tell the major he's wakin' up... and move your worthless ass.
speaker3: got yourself a helluva shiner, didn't ya?
speaker4: does he speak english?
speaker3: don't know sir... you speak english? talk english? talk?
speaker5: i speak english...
speaker4: who are you?
speaker5: lieutenant john. j. dunbar. this is my post.
speaker4: why are you dressed like this?
speaker5: i came out from fort hays last april. but there was no one here.
speaker6: you have proof of that?
speaker5: my journal is on the bunk in my quarters. my orders are in the journal. it will tell you everything.
speaker6: spivey, you and edwards were here first. did you find anything... a journal.
speaker2: we didn't see nothin' sir.
speaker6: where's edwards?
speaker2: he's outside. but he didn't see nothin' either.
speaker3: you turned injun, din'cha?
speaker3: din'cha?
speaker6: what is your name?
speaker5: dunbar... d.u.n.b.a.r... john.
speaker6: you say you are an officer?
speaker5: did you read my orders?
speaker6: no.
speaker5: it was in my journal.
speaker6: there are no orders and there is no journal.
speaker6: why are you out of uniform?
speaker5: i have to relieve myself.

speaker1: why are you out of uniform? 
speaker2: what is the army doing out here?
speaker3: lieutenant's askin' the questions here.
speaker1: we are charged with apprehending hostiles, recovering stolen property and retrieving white captives taken in hostile raidings.
speaker2: there are no hostiles.
speaker4: we will ascertain that for ourselves. now if you guide us to these camps and serve as an interpreter, your conduct will be reevaluated.
speaker2: what conduct?
speaker4: your status as a traitor might improve should you choose to cooperate with the united states army.
speaker1: are you willing to cooperate or not?
speaker4: well, speak up...
speaker2: i am dances with wolves...
speaker4: what's that?
speaker1: sergeant... have a detail take him down to the river... let him clean up his face.

speaker1: you got paper over there spivey? 
speaker2: what's it to you?
speaker1: well gimme some shitbird.
speaker2: can you read?
speaker1: naw, i can't read. what the do you care... you can't either.
speaker2: alright... hold your horses.

speaker1: lap it up injun. 
speaker1: go on ahead injun... you'll just get hungrier is all... but mebbe that don't matter. word is they're gonna ship you back to hays. and they'll hang you once you get there.

speaker1: lookit the stupid bastard... he ain't even runnin'. 
speaker2: don't shoot, i seen 'em first... it's my shot.
speaker3: it's my shot goddamit.
speaker1: you sons a
speaker2: he mighta killed you.
speaker4: i got him...
speaker5: the you did...
speaker4: i got him... dead shot boys.
speaker1: you want more?... get up... get up.
speaker6: spivey!
speaker6: i see you bash the prisoner once more and i'll put those shackles on you...
speaker6: you men! get back to your places.

speaker1: we go south? 
speaker2: we will ride south for two days... then turn east. no one must follow.

speaker1: you have nothing to say? 
speaker2: what can i tell you?
speaker1: what ever is on your mind.
speaker2: we have decided. you are my husband. i am your wife. that is all i know.

speaker1: dances with wolves is quiet these days. 
speaker1: is his heart bad?
speaker2: killing the soldiers at the river was a good thing. it made me free and my heart was big to see my friends coming to help me. i did not mind killing those men. i was glad to do it.
speaker2: but the soldiers hate me now like they hate no other. i am more than an enemy to them, i am a traitor. they will hunt for me. they will not give up. and when they find me they find you and that cannot happen.
speaker1: quiet!... sit down wind in his hair. you are hurting an old man's ears with your loud talk.

speaker1: dances with wolves? 
speaker1: ahh... this is a nice fire... at my age a good fire is better than anything.
speaker1: i wondered how your bad heart was doing and though i would come by and see for myself. this place doesn't look so bad-hearted.
speaker2: no, we are happy.
speaker1: but you are leaving anyway?
speaker2: i have talked with stands with a fist and we will go together.
speaker1: have you told this to kicking bird or to wind in his hair.
speaker1: you are the only white man i have ever known. i have thought about you alot. more than you know.
speaker2: that does not surprise me.
speaker1: you have always spoken with your heart. and like all of us, you are a free man and can do anything you like. when i look across this fire, i do not see a white soldier. i see only a sioux named dances with wolves. and there is nothing they hate so much as a sioux.
speaker1: you are making a pipe?
speaker2: yes?
speaker1: this might be a pretty good pipe... how does it smoke?
speaker2: i don't know, i haven't tried it yet.
speaker1: let's smoke it awhile... it is good to pass the time this way.

speaker1: you've finished your pipe? how does it smoke? 
speaker2: i'm told it smokes well.
speaker1: it doesn't seem possible that we could come this far.
speaker2: you were the first man i ever wanted to be like. i will not forget you.

speaker1: i am wind in his hair... 
speaker1: can you not see that i am your friend?
speaker1: can you not see that you will always be my friend?
speaker1: dances with wolves...

