speaker1: your father has work to do, sonny ... but he'll be home soon. and we'll all watch it together. 
speaker2: you promise, dad?
speaker3: i promise.
speaker2: daddy ... daddy, is e.t. gonna win?
speaker3: he's got my vote.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 2.
speaker1: i want you back early. tonight's the night those little starlets are crawling all over town.
speaker3: don't worry. i'll beat 'em off with a stick.
speaker2: daddy what about my joke?
speaker3: knock knock.
speaker2: who's there?
speaker3: old lady.
speaker2: old lady who?
speaker3: i didn't know you could yodel.
speaker1: take my advice: don't give up your day job.

speaker1: if i had a sidewinder missile, i could save the taxpayers a lot of money. 
speaker2: veers toward an upcoming exit ramp.
speaker1: here he goes. i'm shutting down the radio, partner.

speaker1: let's go, boys. i'm missing the oscars. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 5.

speaker1: seeing the doors open on both cars. a mature man, 
speaker2: i know you, calabrese. but who are these mystery guests? the two shadow men are obscured by the shack and the position of calabrese and vitale.

speaker1: -- murder is a serious business, my friend. and an expensive one. 
speaker2: you'll be well compensated, calabrese. money now -- and a lot more when i get into that office.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 6.

speaker1: slowly ... slowly. always with caution. 
speaker2: i'm up to here with caution! that lives on bean curd and alfalfa sprouts -- he ain't gonna die of natural causes.
speaker1: all i'm counseling is a little patience. the man is public. he's in the paper every day.
speaker2: yeah? well, the next time i read about him, it better be in the obituaries.

speaker1: enough can you do the job or not? if you can't - 
speaker2: we'll do it.
speaker3: knowing he's on to something super hot.
speaker3: who are you? get out of those shadows --
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 7.
speaker4: keep talking.

speaker1: you told us this dock was clean -- 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 8.

speaker1: a quarter's a quarter. 
speaker2: calabrese and vitale are getting uneasy.
speaker3: mikey! quit playing with yourself back there. mikey --
speaker1: bolts back up the wharf, toward his car.

speaker1: whoever that is, i don't want him to get an hour older. 
speaker2: he won't, mr. assemblyman.

speaker1: you throwing away dimes now? 
speaker2: this doesn't go out over the air, pal. for your ears only.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 10.
speaker1: what's going down?
speaker2: calabrese. i just got his -- on candid camera.
speaker1: you're full of
speaker2: him and his gorilla vitale. i got film and audio on both of them, laying out a hit. two other guys i couldn't make out, but i'm sure they'll come up on the film. this is a big one, carlito. our own academy award. you ready?
speaker1: shoot.
speaker2: i want you to track down morgensteen right now. if he's with that meter maid from pico, crank her legs apart and pry him out of there.
speaker1: he ain't gonna be happy.
speaker2: screw his happiness. tell him i want the lab open at six-thirty tomorrow morning. i want this film pushed to the max, and nobody but us to know about it. i know we got something here.
speaker1: you bringing it in tonight?
speaker2: i promised my kid i'd be home. i'll be at the lab before dawn.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 11.

speaker1: how ya doing? got any champagne? 
speaker2: right next to the caviar. there's some in the big cooler.

speaker1: you're not watching the oscars? 
speaker2: the oscars? i hate the oscars.
speaker2: who needs the goddam movies? i get it all in here every night. horror. sex. freaks. violence. and i ain't gotta pay no four bucks.
speaker1: you got a phone back there?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 12.
speaker2: why ?
speaker1: punch nine-one-one.
speaker2: sonsofbitches! you creeps ripped me off two weeks ago!
speaker3: shut up.
speaker2: take it, man. take my life's savings.
speaker2: where is a cop when you goddam need one? i got half a mind to come out there and teach you --
speaker3: now you got half a mind, old man.
speaker3: what are you grinning at, pindejo?
speaker1: we ... ell ... there's only three of you and you only got one shot left.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 13.
speaker1: i know what you're thinking. i have this big shotgun and all you have is that little icepick. mine's bigger than yours. it's not fair.
speaker1: still not fair?
speaker1: don't wait for the blindfold, maricon.
speaker4: chinga tu madre!
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 14.

speaker1: you were armed, storm -- why didn't you just use your gun? 
speaker2: i just got these new glazer bullets. you know they're almost a buck a pop now?

speaker1: wish i could sleep like that. 
speaker2: maybe i can help you.
speaker3: is that for me, dad?
speaker1: you faker.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 16.
speaker3: e.t. lost.
speaker1: who won?
speaker3: i dunno. candy.
speaker1: candy?
speaker1: you know why e.t. lost?
speaker3: why?
speaker1: cause they only let grownups vote.
speaker3: -- we would have gave e.t.
speaker1: we would have given him everything.
speaker3: yeah.
speaker3: daddy -- tell me a knock-knock.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 17.
speaker1: you know the rules. one joke a day. i have to make 'em last.

speaker1: there's blood on your jacket. 
speaker2: it's okay. it's not mine.
speaker1: if people knew how sweet you are, they'd never be scared of you.
speaker1: i'm not scared of you.
speaker2: maybe you should be.
speaker1: why? are you planning on doing something to me?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 18.
speaker2: a couple of things crossed my mind, in the car coming home.
speaker1: door's open.

speaker1: at the end of this new hall: the bedroom door. 
speaker2: creeping closer.

speaker1: man. 
speaker2: get to work.
speaker1: you got the tapes?
speaker2: i got a shitload of 'em.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 21.

speaker1: knew storm from when i was city attorney ... and he was a young homicide detective - we worked on... cases ... together 
speaker2: i'm sorry ... sorry --
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 23.
speaker3: that was assemblyman vernon trent, deeply moved by the loss of an officer he knew, .
speaker1: what makes people do this?
speaker4: holland! captain holland!

speaker1: they always said storm was superhuman. now we know why he was always jacked up on coke! 
speaker2: let me tell you something, you piss- ant. that man in there was the cleanest i ever knew -- with more honor and guts than this whole department put together. if i ever hear you say all like that again, i'll lose my shield to put you where you belong.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 24.
speaker1: what the hell's i.a. doing up at this hour?
speaker2: taking over the show.
speaker1: this is homicide, not internal affairs.
speaker2: we got two cops down, with money and drugs all over the place. this is straight from the commissioner.
speaker1: you and storm were tight, o'malley.
speaker2: he was the most unstoppable i ever knew.
speaker1: well.
speaker3: emerges from the emergency room.
speaker4: excuse me, are you with the police?
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 25.
speaker2: dully, showing
speaker5: lieutenant o'malley. what've you got, doc?
speaker4: i've got a live cop, is what i've got.

speaker1: who else knows he isn't dead? 
speaker2: no one ... just the people in her.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 26.
speaker1: i want to see each one of them before they leave the room. no one else comes in as of right now.
speaker2: hold on. i don't think you -- o'malley steers the doctor into a corner.
speaker1: mason storm is going to vanish, doctor -- and you're gonna help make it happen. until he can give us some answers, the deader he is, the safer he is.

speaker1: you're early again. 
speaker2: inquiring minds want to know --
speaker1: -- dr. cannon ordered a glucose drip on jimmy see. mack's e.e.g. monitor's developing a nice electronic hiccup -- and your boyfriend... ... turned his head.
speaker2: he did?
speaker1: i thought he was going to sit up. i almost the nurses laugh. but andy's glance toward storm's bed is full of deep care and hope.

speaker1: i'm going to talk to you tonight... and tomorrow night ... and the night after that. i'm going to keep talking to you till you come back -- 
speaker1: yogi said it ain't over till it's over. till the fat lady sings. there's life in you, j.d., i feel it. i'll never give up on you, and you'll never give up on yourself --
speaker1: besides ... you've got so much to live for.
speaker1: sorry. i won't be long.

speaker1: how's the sleeping prince? 
speaker2: still sleeping. it's bad enough when it's old people. but a young handsome guy -- her voice trails off.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 30.
speaker1: don't let this job get you, honey. it's eight hours, not twenty-four.
speaker2: you can have my orgasms, martha.

speaker1: internal affairs. detective sergeant jones. 
speaker2: my name is andrea simpson. i'm calling from u.c.i. medical center. i'd like to speak with captain o'malley.
speaker1: what is this in regard to, please?
speaker2: i have a john doe coma patient, code access 461 zebra, with instructions to notify upon any change in condition.
speaker1: what is the change?
speaker2: the patient has regained consciousness.
speaker1: nolan. get holland at home ... right now. i'm sorry, ms. simpson. captain o'malley is no longer with this division. let me take your information. please ... contact no one else on this matter.

speaker1: -- clip him with 50 cc of thorazine if he gives you any trouble. i'm afraid he's very disoriented and quite paranoid. he thinks people are trying to kill him. 
speaker2: miss ... please ... they won't tell me ... think i'm too disorient --
speaker3: this is u.c.i. medical center. you've been in a coma. your charts go back for seven years.
speaker2: seven... years?
speaker2: who ... who knows i'm awake?
speaker3: it's all over the hospital. you're the first one that's come out of a coma of this duration. you'll probably be on the news! you'll be famous!
speaker2: listen to me carefully -- -- andy. i don't have the strength to talk much. i'm a cop. my wife ... family ... murdered. that's how i got here. if you don't get me out ... you and i ... good chance ... both be dead.
speaker3: please -- you're in no danger here.
speaker3: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 34.
speaker2: goddamit -- can't stay here. listen to me -
speaker3: i'll have one of the aides take you down the hall for hydrotherapy.
speaker2: no --
speaker3: listen... i've got work to do. you're my cutest patient, but you're not my only one.

speaker1: my 
speaker2: -- help me ...

speaker1: hurries after it on foot. too late. he pulls up. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 40.
speaker2: rolls randomly into view across the lot.

speaker1: six gang-related murders in one week. we're going to put a stop to it -- and we're going to start right here! trent picks an ak-47 off the table and stuffs it theatrically into a huge trash can. news cameras record this juicy nugget for the nightly news. 
speaker1: i'll be talking with the mayor. we'll have a statement shortly --

speaker1: christ! 
speaker1: holland -- plaster his with slime in the press. put a tail on every person he knows --
speaker2: we know how to do our job, senator.
speaker1: then start showing it. i'm starring in that sonofabitch's home movie -- and the oscar is thirty years in the slammer. he's toast, understand? the assassins nod grimly. trent turns, hands raised triumphantly, to the crowd.
speaker1: we're going to end violence in this state -- and you can take that to the bank!

speaker1: -- stay tuned for more of: best of geraldo! 
speaker2: dumbstruck.
speaker3: geraldo?
speaker4: senator vernon trent promises: no new taxes!
speaker5: and you can take that to the bank!

speaker1: -- if you want to sleep with me ... 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 43. a "product shot" of condom packages appears.
speaker2: pharoah condoms. the only safer is no at all!
speaker3: certain the world has gone insane.
speaker4: can't come in to work, are you crazy?! i can't even go to my apartment! people are dead, martha ... no, i can't tell you where i am ... you're better off not knowing -- mini-tv on countertop. on tv: a photo of storm. jack esposito reporting --
speaker4: it's okay -- i'm here, i'm with you.

speaker1: yeah, that esposito. the ignorant who's broadcasting the news right now. tell him it's storm. mason storm. storm cups the receiver -- steaming -- waiting to be put through. his eyes flash to the room, the house... 
speaker1: i can't stay here. they'll trace you from the hospital in two --
speaker2: i told you -- no one knows i'm here! i'm house-sitting... this place belongs to a doctor friend of my parents. he's in china now, on research... won't be back for six months. the medical center only has my apartment address. even my friends don't have this number. will you believe me?! we're safe here. storm studies her for a long beat. then: a voice comes onto the phone line.
speaker1: esposito? listen, you --

speaker1: we'll find your friend o'malley. 
speaker2: listen. i'm getting out of here. he grabs for a cane resting against the sofa.
speaker1: i'll buy tickets to that.
speaker2: i just need some food -- and a few days to get my strength.
speaker1: days? try a few weeks.
speaker2: you helped me, okay? i'm grateful. but every day you keep helping puts you in more danger.
speaker1: danger is my middle name.
speaker2: i've been dead, andy. you wouldn't like it.
speaker1: hey, hey -- i don't think you get the picture here. your muscles have been getting electronic stimulation at the hospital, but it's not like actually being up and bearing weight.
speaker2: you're the one who doesn't get the picture.

speaker1: storm's face on the floor. 
speaker2: fury, frustration, despair --

speaker1: just some herbs i need for my recovery. 
speaker2: no problem. this is on my list for safeway every day.

speaker1: that bad ... huh? 
speaker2: i'll be in the other room.
speaker3: one headline:

speaker1: storm gave me his word that he is innocent of all charges preferred against him in the press -- and that he has access to indisputable proof of this. battling the atrophy caused by seven years of hospitalization, storm is struggling even now to regain the strength that will enable him to come forward with this evidence. he has promised me and the k.a.b.c. audience a first look at his alleged proof. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 49.
speaker2: turns to his men and to holland.
speaker2: i want 24-hour surveillance on this

speaker1: i told you -- andy's out of town. 
speaker2: where out of town is andy?
speaker1: i don't know. look, i've been questioned by you cops half a dozen times since tuesday. i'm getting a little tired of it. you need a warrant to walk in on someone like this. get the out.
speaker1: then i'll get out.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 50.
speaker3: we'll ask you again, martha: where is miss simpson?
speaker1: i'm calling your superior officers to report this. i want both your names and shield numbers.

speaker1: that's enough! i don't care how many needles you stick in yourself or how much ginseng root you eat ... you have to sleep if you're going to recover. 
speaker2: i slept for seven years?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 52.
speaker1: that's an order!
speaker1: -- what a patient!

speaker1: -- you can't compare blood pressure readings now with when you were in a coma. it's not going to give a true measure -- 
speaker2: what's this reading? 555 over four digits --
speaker1: that's crazy -- she snatches the chart, stares at it.
speaker1: it's martha's chicken scratches.
speaker2: i'll tell you what it is. it's a phone number.

speaker1: i'm. sorry ... maybe i have the wrong number. i'm looking for kevin o'malley. 
speaker2: o'malley? there's no o'malley here.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 54.
speaker1: my name is phyllis o'connor. i'm with the pension board of the los angeles police department. we have a misplaced check here for captain o'malley ...
speaker2: a check? well, listen... there's a big turnover here, people are dying all the time, i never know who's in what bed. can you leave me your number? andy glances to storm, he shakes his head: hang up. he hangs up his receiver in disgust.
speaker1: i'm sorry, we're not allowed to do that.

speaker1: mrs. wade, i'll be honest with you -- i'm not from the police pension board. my name is andrea simpson, i'm a nurse from u.c.i. medical center. 
speaker1: you probably have no connection to this, and what i'm about to say

speaker1: will sound completely absurd to you. my patient is a police officer named mason storm. he's in trouble and needs desperately to contact his friend, captain o'malley. if you have any idea how to contact captain o'malley, please help me. 
speaker2: as i've said, miss simpson, i've already asked everybody in the home. there is no o'malley here. but it's possible o'malley could be a relative of somebody living here. sunday is family day. why don't you leave your phone number and i'll contact you if i learn anything.
speaker1: i can't do that.
speaker1: can i phone you?
speaker2: of course, my dear.

speaker1: this is my number, mrs. o'malley. 
speaker2: you mean mrs. wade. o'malley is the person you're looking for.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 56. andy meets her gaze.
speaker1: yes ... you're right. i'm sorry.

speaker1: oh, i'm sorry ... i didn't mean to interrupt. i, ah, well, i was just passing by and ... 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 57.

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker1: please.
speaker1: i'm sorry -- sorry. i --

speaker1: why am i still in this cage?! what's wrong with my body? why won't it heal faster?!! he slams another furious punch. andy gets up, tries to approach storm. 
speaker2: mason, please i love you.
speaker1: don't say that!
speaker2: why not?!
speaker1: because i can't love you! don't you see? it's seven years to anyone else. but it's only days for me.
speaker1: how can i be with you ... how can i want you and take you, when --
speaker1: you seduced me. you came in here, looking that way, knowing just what the you were doing --
speaker2: yeah, i knew. what of it? i wanted you --
speaker1: you have no right to want me!
speaker2: then who does?! i've risked my life for you --
speaker1: who asked you to? not me!
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 59.
speaker2: you haven't stopped me!
speaker1: then don't risk it! don't do for me! i don't need you!

speaker1: get a hold of yourself, andy. 
speaker1: you're really beautiful.

speaker1: martha! martha, it's me -- 
speaker2: you looking for martha coe?
speaker1: yes... yes -- do you know if she's home?
speaker2: you haven't seen the news? she's dead. they shot her in the back... over in westwood.
speaker2: you look like the woman's picture on t.v... the one whose house they shot her at -- andy turns, flees into the alley.
speaker3: pulls out swiftly into the street. it passes:
speaker4: you called it right, max. the showed. i'm on her right now -- mount up, boys. two to one she leads us right to our boy storm.
speaker4: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 62.

speaker1: that's grand theft, auto. 
speaker2: o'malley.
speaker3: bear hug each other affectionately.

speaker1: -- it's sonny, all right. believe how big he got? he can throw a football forty yards -- 
speaker1: he made it to my house, the night you got shot. i hid him, played it out like he was dead -- even staged a funeral, along with felicia's and yours. they bought it. everyone believed he was dead.
speaker2: where is he now? is he safe?
speaker1: trinity school in ventura. under my mother's maiden name, wade. no one has any idea he's your son.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 63.
speaker2: then that was your mother. the one andy found.
speaker1: your nurse friend? yeah. she left your number, i traced you to here.
speaker2: o'mal ... i can never thank you.
speaker1: just seeing your ugly alive, that's enough for me. you wouldn't happen to have a beer around this joint --
speaker2: i'd give my left arm to see sonny, just for two minutes. but we can't risk it -- not yet. not till i get calabrese.
speaker1: calabrese? calabrese's dead.
speaker1: someone blew the out of his cadillac -- six months after you 'died.'
speaker2: he did his thing -- then they waxed him.
speaker2: the two guys at the pier. they ordered the hit on me too. and i've got 'em on film. still in the camera, right where i left it.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 64.

speaker1: -- that night in the hospital, i found the audiotape ... in your vest. i must've listened to it a thousand times -- looking for little quirks in the voices, phrases they repeat ... 
speaker2: where is the tape?
speaker1: i turned it in for evidence.
speaker3: don't worry, i made a duve. i'll get it for you. meanwhile maybe this'll cheer you up.
speaker2: what happened, o'mal? to you?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 65. o'malley begins loading the clips: grim, almost heartbroken.
speaker3: i was on the case, trying to find who pulled the trigger on you. but it was like swimming through people kept telling me to back off. then one morning, the phone rings. immaculate heart emergency: someone ran my mother off the road, her back's broken, she's paralyzed.
speaker2: i'm sorry, o'mal.
speaker1: that night there's a note in my locker -- letting me know it's not an accident.
speaker1: you know me, storm. i never would've backed off. but there was sonny to worry about too. what if they found him? what if they found you?
speaker2: you did the right thing, o'mal.
speaker2: we'll get 'em, buddy. every one of them.

speaker1: get sonny out of that school, o'mal. right now. with me alive and making a stink, whoever's on that film is going to be looking harder than ever for sonny -- just to get to me. get him someplace safe ... three thousand miles away if you have to. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 66.
speaker2: consider it done.
speaker1: i'm going straight to get that film. when you've got sonny safe, bring me the audiotape. we'll put 'em together and get 'em to esposito for the t.v. news. that should be quite a show.
speaker2: you got it, partner. you can always reach me through my mother. what about that nurse? she still in this?
speaker1: gone. for the best. for her best.
speaker2: thanks for the brew!

speaker1: martha's dead. 
speaker1: i won't leave you. not ever again.
speaker2: i won't let you.
speaker2: o'malley was here.
speaker1: here? how did you find him?
speaker2: you found him. the old lady was his mother. and andy ... my son's alive.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 68.

speaker1: holland! the other man on the dock -- 
speaker2: are you crazy?! get us outa here --

speaker1: what the are you doing?! 
speaker2: we just made the top of the chart, andy. every cop in the city thinks we shot our way out of a legitimate bust --
speaker1: there are no cops here!
speaker2: only 'cause they're too stupid. we need that film and we don't need any --
speaker1: goddamit ... for once, do something the non-violent way!

speaker1: -- gee, my husband and i aren't really thinking about selling. in fact, we're adding a nursery -- 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 74.
speaker2: oh, that's the best time for us to see it! then when you do come to sell, our office will know the upgrades you've made and we can market your home more effectively.
speaker1: hell, come on in. everyone else does.

speaker1: just checking for termites he tucks the camera case under his arm -- takes andy by the elbow. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 75.
speaker2: better have this place fumigated -- quick. he leads andy out -- crisply, businesslike. housewife stands there dumbfounded.

speaker1: o'malley left his mother's place three hours ago -- with the tape. he should be at the school by now, but she hasn't heard back from him. several people pass, glancing curiously at storm. he averts his face, getting even more antsy. the camera case under his arm. 
speaker2: the tape. we gotta get this film to esposito or i'm gonna have a nervous breakdown. storm knows this, too -- puts the receiver back to his ear.
speaker1: mrs. o'malley. sorry ... listen. we're outside the century plaza now ... the hotel. right, right. the one in century city. okay, listen closely ... tell o'mal to leave a message for us at the hotel desk. leave it for andy ... andrea smith. we're not gonna check in, it's too dangerous -- but the desk will hold the message if you tell them we're coming in this afternoon. got it? great.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 76.
speaker1: you're gonna call esposito. but not from this phone.
speaker3: storm and andy hurry off.
speaker4: with score. tension, urgency increasing --

speaker1: hey, hermano! you want this jeep? 
speaker2: how hot is it?
speaker1: smoking.
speaker2: we got it, my man.

speaker1: esposito won't be here yet. he said three-thirty. 
speaker2: he'll be there.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 78.
speaker2: try o'malley one more time. if you hear any lions roaring, haul ass.
speaker2: don't worry. i'm a big boy.

speaker1: what a day, huh? beautiful! want some nuts? 
speaker2: i haven't got the film on me.
speaker1: i didn't think you would. sit down. take a load off.
speaker1: you do have the film somewhere, i assume?
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 80.
speaker1: developed yet?
speaker2: still in the camera.
speaker1: good. very good. that way i know you haven't duplicated it.
speaker2: you know, trent ... i could rip your throat out before that over there could find the spit to sneeze.
speaker1: oh, i'm sure you could, storm. but not before one of those other gentlemen, across the way, could put a fifty-caliber slug through your brainpan.

speaker1: very well placed, trent. but did you know that human reaction time -- even the fastest -- is between half and three-quarters of second? and in that time, i could easily -- 
speaker2: you could kill me now, storm -- but you'll die two seconds later.
speaker1: you think i care, just so i get you -- one way or the other.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 81. then, a voice from o.s.
speaker3: maybe you care about this,

speaker1: storm: stunned. 
speaker2: reach into my jacket pocket. reach in!

speaker1: i want that film and the tape. i'll give you three hours. 
speaker2: just tell me one thing. who pulled the trigger on me and my wife?
speaker1: hate poisons people. let go of it.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 82.
speaker3: i missed your kid seven years ago. but i won't miss tonight. storm glowers with fury. trent hands storm a business card.
speaker1: bring that film, mr. storm. three hours.

speaker1: it's fun, huh, kid? kinda like a field trip. 
speaker2: i'm remembering both of you. and when my dad gets here --
speaker3: he's gonna have a long trip, kid -- starting from forest lawn.
speaker1: by the time this night's over, your old man'll have a use for that phony grave of his.
speaker1: yeah... yeah -- we'll be right down.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 83.
speaker1: we'll come back with your french fries. don't leave home without us.

speaker1: malley! 
speaker2: it's okay, sport. it's okay... it's okay --

speaker1: with sonny aboard, pulls out. 
speaker2: pulls out after it.

speaker1: i need to check any messages for a miss andrea smith. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i see no slot for that name --
speaker1: she hasn't checked in yet. but she's due here. someone might have left a message for her.
speaker2: here it is. there's just one message.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 86.
speaker1: you can put this back now. you never saw me. you never saw these guys.

speaker1: in a subtle position near the lobby entrance. 
speaker2: half-hidden at a corner of the cocktail pit..
speaker3: dispersed at angles across from the message desk.

speaker1: slips back out of sight. 
speaker2: does the same.

speaker1: sonny got away! he's with o'malley! o'malley's gat the tape -- they're heading for union station. 
speaker2: he spots ford!
speaker3: his eyes flash across the lobby. he spots:

speaker1: on foot, catch up to the scene. too late. 
speaker2: get the goddam cars!

speaker1: be careful you don't get any of that guck on your sweater ... let me comb your hair before your old man gets here, it's stinking up in the back. 
speaker2: quit it, will you ... you're making me more nervous than i am already. my father's going to be more interested in seeing the real me.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 89.
speaker1: i think i'm more nervous than you are, kid. we got out of my mother' place about two shakes ahead of the landlord ... know what i mean?
speaker2: my dad'll get 'em. you guys'll nail them all. you think he's gonna like me?
speaker1: does a bear dump in the woods? are you kidding -- he's gonna love you.
speaker2: let me see the tickets. did you get us one of those sleeping cars?
speaker1: soon...
speaker3: hey, o'malley! long time no see. taking a trip somewhere? o'malley slip the tape from his pocket, placing it under sonny's jacket on the bench without missing a beat, as he calmly starts to rise.
speaker1: make sure your father gets this ... yeah. me and my son are visiting my mother in new mexico.
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 90.
speaker3: your son, huh? that's funny. he doesn't look much like you -- does he, turner?
speaker4: looks a lot like mason storm.
speaker3: enough of this around. we want the tape. clunk! o.s. we hear a clattering echo.
speaker1: sonny -- run!

speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 91. 
speaker2: get the kid! he's under the cars!
speaker3: give us the tape, kid -- and we'll take you home.
speaker4: you, jack!

speaker1: where to? 
speaker2: that's a good question. out of here for sure.

speaker1: where are we going? who are you? 
speaker2: thinks for a moment.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 94.
speaker2: it's a long story. you got a few minutes?

speaker1: what do we have to do, holland drive a stake through his heart? 
speaker2: i'll settle for a bullet.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 95.
speaker2: you had him point-blank seven years ago, and he's still walking!
speaker3: he won't be for long. not with his picture on every t.v. in --
speaker2: his picture! get off your -- start earning your money!

speaker1: don't know whether to or go blind. 
speaker2: how's the action, boys? mind if i play?
speaker2: i know what you guys are thinking. you're thinking i couldn't play with this gun in my hand. right?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 96.
speaker2: well? somebody hand me a cue.
speaker2: that's for my wife. you and die.

speaker1: i want dunne and the others here. that storm is nuts enough to come after me -- 
speaker2: he's nuts -- but not that nuts.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 97.

speaker1:  
speaker2: how does it feel to know you're about to die?
speaker2: i'll give you more time than you and trent gave my wife.
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 98.

speaker1: you know, trent, i want to kill you so bad i can barely contain myself. but i keep thinking that death is far too merciful a fate for you, and that a nice petite white-bread boy like you in a federal penitentiary ... -- let me put it this way -- i doubt whether you could remain retentive for very long. yeah... i think that's best for you -- 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 100. storm turns away --

speaker1: murder is a serious business, my friend. and an expensive one. 
speaker1: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 101.
speaker2: i'm up to here with caution! this lives on alfalfa sprouts and bean curd, he ain't gonna die of natural cause.
speaker1: all i'm counseling is a little patience. the man is public. he's in the paper every day.
speaker2: yeah? well, the next time i read about him, it better be in the obituaries.

speaker1: knock, knock. 
speaker2: who's there?
speaker2: converted to pdf by www.screentalk.org 103.
speaker1: boo.
speaker2: boo who?
speaker1: you don't have to cry about it. i love you both.

