speaker1: it's peezee. gotta be. he hates your guts. 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: who else knew about the money? and how did peezee know they popped tony cisco when we didn't even hear about it 'til last night?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: what is so hard to understand here? you said yourself peezee was a mamaluke and you couldn't trust him.
speaker2: i just don't think it was him.
speaker1: okay, i'll bite. if not peezee, then who?
speaker2: i think it was you, ducks.
speaker1: you gotta be kiddin'!

speaker1: appeared, holding automatic weapons. 
speaker2: caesar, you know me! what kind of would i have to be to try that with you?
speaker3: a dead

speaker1: garbage. change the channel. 
speaker2: okay, paul.
speaker3: hey! what're you doin', asshole!
speaker3: sorry, mr. vitti. didn't mean any disrespect.
speaker2: punks.

speaker1: what's goin' on, earl? 
speaker2: they're transferring me.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: don't know. thanks for looking out for me, mr. vitti.
speaker1: yeah. take it easy.
speaker1: hey, earl. is that my after-shave?
speaker2: i'm sorry. i just grabbed stuff -- i didn't know --
speaker1: that's okay. keep it. go ahead.
speaker2: thanks. see you around.

speaker1: it's very difficult for me to talk about my father, because in a sense i'm talking about two men. 
speaker1: one, of course, is the public isaac sobel, the eminent psychotherapist and popular author known to millions of readers around the world.
speaker1: the second isaac sobel is the private man -- my father -- dad. and for those of you who knew him well and knew our family -- well, let's face it -- my father was a psychotic, mind- prick. an arrogant, abusive, ego-inflated -- a ringing cell phone interrupts him.

speaker1: paul? i have to, uh, take this. this isn't a good time. 
speaker2: not a good time? let me explain something to you. i'm in right now. this is not a good time.
speaker1: i can't talk right now. my father died!
speaker2: so what does that have to do with me?
speaker1: call me later --
speaker2: don't hang up on, sobel! they're tryin' to kill me!

speaker1: ooh, they got tapioca. i love tapioca. you all right, paul? 
speaker1: can i have your tapioca?
speaker2: hey, fredo! or is it guido? his friends laugh.
speaker2: just keep walkin', don corleone.
speaker2: shut up!
speaker2: i said, shut up,

speaker1: you're a dead man, jefe! 
speaker2: 'when you're a jet, you're a jet all the way, from your first cigarette to your last dyin' day...'
speaker2: 'when you're a jet, if the hits the fan, you got brothers around, you're a family man...'
speaker1: you're a dead man, jefe!
speaker2: 'i like to be in america, okay by me in america...'
speaker2: 'tonight, tonight, won't be just any night -- '

speaker1: i can't believe he's gone. 
speaker2: i can't believe what you said about him. cold and withholding? you had to tell everybody?
speaker3: nice. why didn't you just take a swing at the casket?

speaker1: okay, i might have strayed from my notes a little. i'm dealing with a lot of stuff here. grief is a process. 
speaker2: dr. sobel, i'm agent miller, this is special agent cerrone, federal bureau of investigation. we'd just like to ask you a few questions, if we could.
speaker3: can i ask what this is about? we just came from the cemetery.
speaker4: we know this is a difficult time for you, dr. sobel. sorry about your father.
speaker1: thank you, i'm going to miss him

speaker1: terribly. ben gestures for them to sit. 
speaker2: i mean -- there were issues -- as, i think, there are with any father and son. he wasn't especially warm --
speaker3: ben -- once today? enough.
speaker2: no, i'm just saying, in spite of all that --
speaker2: -- he was a great, great legs. man.
speaker4: dr. sobel, you received a call this morning from paul vitti?
speaker2: what makes you think paul vitti called me?
speaker5: because we monitor and record all his phone calls from sing sing.
speaker2: then yes. he did.
speaker3: that was him on the phone?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: and you didn't tell me?
speaker6: wow. talk about withholding.
speaker2: michael?

speaker1: you told her -- you told her at the drop of a hat. 
speaker2: she's with the f.b.i. she needs to know these things.
speaker1: oh, i see. and i don't. why tell laura? she couldn't possibly handle a phone call.
speaker2: did i say that?
speaker3: you folks need a minute?
speaker2: no, we're fine.
speaker1: if you don't need me anymore, i'll be in the kitchen. and two words of advice -- from one professional woman to another -- pant. suit.
speaker2: she's grieving. it's a process.
speaker3: we understand. vitti?
speaker2: oh, yes. paul vitti and i were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago. i mean, i wasn't involved -- not 'involved' involved -- i was just trying to help him therapeutically, and some people tried to, uh, kill us.
speaker3: well, shortly after you spoke, he

speaker1: seemed to have some kind of breakdown. 
speaker2: what kind of breakdown?
speaker3: i think you'd better go up there and see for yourself.

speaker1: i'm treating him with thioridazine, 300 milligrams, t.i.d. that seems to keep him pretty calm. 
speaker2: that would keep a parade pretty calm. he just keeps singing west side story songs?
speaker1: 'tonight,' 'maria,' the balcony scene.
speaker2: the balcony scene? both parts?
speaker1: oh, yeah. get him to do 'officer krupke.' it's really good.

speaker1: there? what mirror? where? who can that attractive girl be?' 
speaker2: paul, it's me. ben sobel. paul? maria?
speaker3: tony?
speaker2: oh, boy. what's going on, maria?
speaker3: the rumble -- it's tonight! i have to get out of here. i don't want to die. no, chino, no!
speaker2: paul? paul?
speaker4: this is how it's been. he sings for a while, then he goes completely catatonic.
speaker2: really. can we take him to an examining room?
speaker4: of course.

speaker1: you already did a neurological work- up? 
speaker2: yep. no tumors, no aneurisms, no sign of stroke --

speaker1: ben slaps vitti's face lightly a couple times. 
speaker2: completely catatonic --
speaker2: totally gone. well, i don't think he's smart enough to be faking. street smart, yes, but we're talking about an i.q. just north of a bedroom slipper.
speaker2: so if i just stuck him with this needle, he probably wouldn't even respond.
speaker3: i don't know. try it.
speaker2: okay -- he sticks the needle into vitti's shoulder.
speaker4: 'boy, boy, crazy boy, keep cool, boy! got a rocket in your pocket, keep cool-y cool boy -- '

speaker1: paul, we're going to give you some tests to assess your mental condition. there's no pressure -- just answer as best you can. do i have your consent to share the results of these tests? 
speaker2: mommy's mad at me because i made a boom on the rug.

speaker1: i'll take that as a yes. okay, i'm going to show you ten cards, each containing a picture of an inkblot. i want you to look at each card and tell me what you see. 
speaker2: i see you. i see him. i see a table.
speaker1: focus, paul. you haven't seen the card yet. what does this look like to you? take your time.
speaker2: it looks like snow.
speaker1: no, paul, the other side.
speaker2: a bat. a big bat. or a weasel.
speaker1: bat or weasel. all right.
speaker2: and he's got a little girl -- no, it's a little boy -- in his teeth -- and he's shakin' him and shakin' him 'cause the kid didn't wipe himself good -- and the kid is screaming because the bat-weasel ripped out his throat and the blood is shootin' out of his neck vein. that's the blood.
speaker1: see anything else?
speaker2: just the with the teeth.

speaker1: try again. 7-3-8. 
speaker2: blue.

speaker1: just tell me what you think is going on in this picture. 
speaker2: this is a picture of a guy -- nice, hardworking guy -- comes home and finds out his wife's been screwin' this midget while he was out of town.
speaker1: a midget. and how does the story end?
speaker2: i think he works over the midget for a while, then he blows 'em away.

speaker1: the wife or the midget? 
speaker2: trick question, right? both of 'em.

speaker1: okay, paul. last test. in this one, i'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to. ready? 'i get angry -- ' 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: no, you're supposed to complete the sentence.
speaker2: i did. i said 'yes.'
speaker1: i wasn't asking if you agreed or disagreed; it was more like, 'i get angry when -- '
speaker2: -- whenever.
speaker1: well, that about does it for me.

speaker1: based on his symptoms and the test results, i'd say brief psychotic disorder -- if it persists, possibly schizophreniform disorder. and dr. 
speaker2: so he's crazy?

speaker1: dr. cutler? no, he's annoying, but -- 
speaker2: vitti.
speaker1: not crazy. at least not permanently. in certain people, continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation -- soldiers in combat, for instance, disaster victims, a hostage situation, or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you -- it can produce a temporary psychotic state.
speaker2: how temporary?
speaker1: a day, a week, up to a month -- if the precipitating stressors are removed.
speaker2: which means he's not going to get any better while he's still in the can.
speaker1: he could get worse. he could deteriorate to the point where he'd be permanently schizophrenic.
speaker2: then i'd say he's got a real problem, because he goes before the parole board in four weeks.
speaker1: you think they'll let him out?
speaker2: oh, yeah, i'm sure they'll want to release a major mafia figure who's now totally deranged on top of it.
speaker1: well, couldn't you release him to a halfway house or some place where he could get some decent treatment? based on my earlier work with him, i don't think he's dangerous, and i think he was making a real effort to reform himself.

speaker1: you do, huh? okay. then i'll tell you what. i'm gonna release him into your custody. 
speaker2: mine? me? no, this is a bad time for me. my father just died -- and i've got this bulging disc in my neck -- and we're redecorating, which is a total nightmare. i can't --
speaker1: you want to see him killed in prison?
speaker2: no, of course not.
speaker1: or sent to a facility for the criminally insane.
speaker2: no --
speaker1: then he's all yours. i'm going to talk to the bureau of prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal institution.
speaker2: what? i can't be an institution.
speaker1: you've got thirty days to get him in shape for his parole hearing. that means sane, sober and gainfully employed. but let me warn you, doctor. if he up in any way -- if he flees, or if i find out that this whole thing was just a setup so he could get back on the street and return to a life of crime -- i will hold you totally responsible, and i'll see that you are stripped of your license and prosecuted to the full extent of the law. are we clear?
speaker2: yes. we're clear.

speaker1: you still want him? 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: okay, paul -- this way. 
speaker1: this way, paul. over here. here we go.
speaker1: leg, paul. leg up.

speaker1: you where the do you get off sticking me with a needle? 
speaker2: i knew it! i knew you were faking!
speaker1: took you long enough. i was singin' west side story for three days. i'm half a already.

speaker1: what are you talking about? 
speaker2: i call you to say somebody's trying to kill me and you hang up on me?
speaker1: i was at the funeral home!
speaker2: you're my doctor!
speaker1: my father died!
speaker2: me me me me! he's dead! get over it.
speaker1: are you hearing yourself?
speaker2: i'm deeply sorry for your loss.
speaker1: yeah, i can see how touched you are.
speaker2: what's the difference? you hated him anyway.
speaker1: i loved my father. i'm feeling a lot of grief right now.
speaker2: i'm not sensing it, but if you say so.
speaker2: what's that?
speaker1: decongestant. i'm getting over a cold. all right, what's going on?
speaker2: i don't know -- take your pick. could be my old family, or could be the rigazzis. ever heard of lou rigazzi - - lou 'the wrench'?

speaker1: why "the wrench"? 
speaker2: because he twisted a guy's head off once.
speaker1: off?
speaker2: off. calabrese -- animals. and comin' from me you know that's a big compliment.
speaker1: i'm sure they'd be flattered. so --
speaker2: the feds are really putting the pressure on. the families are fighting each other again -- what's left of 'em. it's the fall of the roman empire. it's world war three out there.
speaker1: so what does that have to do with you?
speaker2: they knew i was gettin' out soon and the last thing anybody wants to see is me getting into it on either side.
speaker1: maybe if you just explain to them -- that you're out of it now, that you're starting a new life --
speaker2: yeah, they'll probably want to throw me a party and give me a gold watch. trust me -- nobody's lookin' forward to me being out.
speaker1: you are, aren't you?
speaker2: me? oh, yeah, my future looks real rosy.

speaker1: want to grab your stuff? 
speaker2: i'm not gonna be here that long.
speaker1: paul! i don't think you understand. you're in my custody. i could get in a lot of trouble if you screw up.
speaker2: don't worry about it. i'll call you tomorrow.
speaker1: oh, no. you want to go back to sing sing? thursday's meatloaf night. i can have you back there in no time. the u.s. attorney was very clear. you stay with me; therapy every day; you can't leave the area without permission --
speaker2: what are you, my father now?
speaker1: and you have to get a job as soon as you're well enough, which is now. so are you coming in with me or do i have to make a phone call?
speaker2: i'm comin'. some life this is gonna be.

speaker1: you really think vitti is crazy? 
speaker2: yeah, he's about as crazy as i am.

speaker1: think about it. locked up, he was absolutely no use to me. but back on the street, vitti's still powerful enough to pose a threat to both families. it's like throwing gasoline on a fire. 
speaker2: if we can use vitti to escalate this war, we might just end up putting them all away.
speaker3: that's if he goes back to his old life.
speaker4: if? people like paul vitti don't change. this guy's been a menace to society since he was twelve years old. being a criminal is all he knows.
speaker2: he's gonna head straight for trouble. then all we have to do is sit back and pick up the pieces. we could get twenty, maybe even thirty indictments next time the grand jury convenes.
speaker4: you know, giuliani started this way.
speaker2: you running for mayor?
speaker4: could happen. just stick with vitti.

speaker1: ewww. 
speaker2: i didn't have a lot of choice.
speaker3: oh, there's a law that says you have to bring a gangster home?
speaker2: i told you. he's in my custody. i'm a federal institution.
speaker3: you should be in an institution. why couldn't he just go home?
speaker2: his wife and kids aren't here.
speaker3: ohio! sure. everyone gets to be in ohio except me.
speaker2: his life was threatened and he didn't want to endanger his family.
speaker3: how thoughtful! what about endangering our family? i think my teeth are loose. feel my teeth.
speaker2: honey, your teeth are fine. i know it's an imposition, but what could i do? i didn't want him here. they -
speaker3: you didn't want him, i didn't want him, but here he is!
speaker3: here he is!
speaker4: coffee?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: somebody said something about coffee.
speaker1: that was you. you said you wanted some.
speaker2: so what's the holdup?
speaker1: why don't you make your friend some coffee. i'm going upstairs to take a long bath and hopefully drown.
speaker3: you'll have to forgive her. she's usually a great hostess.
speaker2: i understand. she's uncomfortable. the whole situation's a little awkward with me bein' here -- but let's face it, emily post she's not.
speaker3: emily post. well, that explains why she rarely used her middle name.
speaker2: listen, i got a friend coming over. i didn't want you to be surprised.
speaker3: what kind of friend? because if it's 'the wrench,' or 'the power drill' or any other kind of tool --
speaker2: not that kind of friend. it's a personal thing.
speaker3: they won't stay late, will they?
speaker2: are you really that pussy-whipped?

speaker1: i'm not -- this has nothing to do with laura. 
speaker2: i heard her busting your balls.
speaker1: we were having a disagreement. a certain amount of conflict is normal in a marriage.
speaker2: or?
speaker1: or what?
speaker2: or you're pussy-whipped.
speaker1: paul --
speaker2: good night, whippy.
speaker1: remember, this is only temporary.
speaker2: oh, really? i didn't hear you the tenth time.

speaker1: mike, can we talk for a second? 
speaker2: sure. what?

speaker1: i know the last few weeks have been kind of tough with grandpa -- dying and everything -- and it might've felt to you like i didn't have time for you or i didn't care about how you feel. 
speaker2: no, it didn't.
speaker1: good. because i want you to know that you can talk to me about stuff and that i can really listen and understand what you're going through.
speaker2: i do, dad.
speaker1: and if i seemed a little hard on grandpa, it's just that your grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways. he wanted everything done his way and sometimes i just felt like nothing i ever did was good enough. i don't want it to be that way with us.
speaker2: it's not.
speaker1: and you know, at times like this we all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you'd be if i died.
speaker2: no. not really.
speaker1: that's good. good talk. and i realize it's all a little hectic right now, but this paul vitti thing is only temporary, okay?
speaker2: oh, really? i didn't hear you the tenth time.
speaker1: that's not funny. good night, michael.

speaker1: good night, whippy. ben exits, shaking his head. 
speaker2: i gotta get home. what was that about?
speaker1: i have no idea. parenting stuff.

speaker1: ohhhh, oh, oh, oh, oh! 
speaker2: this has to be some kind of record, don't you think? it's been like forty minutes.
speaker3: how long are you going to let them go on?
speaker2: let them? how much longer can he go? another twenty minutes, i'm either breaking it up or calling the guinness book of records.
speaker3: oh, give me a break. she's got to be

speaker1: faking. nobody sounds like that. 
speaker2: that's not entirely true.
speaker3: okay, sometimes you do sound like that.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i have a 17-year-old son.
speaker1: so let him get his own girl.

speaker1: can i talk to you, please? 
speaker2: actually, i'm right in the middle of someone.
speaker1: miss? excuse me. there's no smoking in this house.

speaker1: what do you think you're doing? 
speaker2: minding my own business, like you should be doin'.
speaker1: well, it's a little hard with the live show going on in the guest room.
speaker2: i've been in prison for two and a half years. what am i supposed to do?
speaker1: go to a hotel.
speaker2: that's what i wanted to do, but you told me i had no choice -- it was either here or sing sing.
speaker1: i'm not trying to punish you. these aren't my rules, but i have a responsibility here. besides, i thought you might like a nice home- cooked meal after being in prison that long.

speaker1: yeah, that's what i've been jerkin' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights -- a nice home- cooked meal. ohhhh, tuna casserole. 
speaker2: that girl is not staying here.
speaker1: i think you're jealous.
speaker2: oh, yeah, i'm really jealous.
speaker1: i didn't hear nothin' comin' out of your room.
speaker2: we don't think it's necessary to wake the neighbors every time we have sex.
speaker1: hey, if you're really quiet, you might be able to do it without even wakin' up your wife.
speaker3: ohhh. ohhh.
speaker1: i told her if i wasn't back in two minutes to start without me. i gotta go.
speaker2: this is not a good start, paul.

speaker1: aunt ester, i'm so sorry we had to put you up at the hotel. we wanted you here with us, but we had an unexpected house guest. 
speaker2: your father always had room for us.
speaker3: i'm sorry. next time i lose a parent, i'll be sure to reserve the guest room.
speaker4: go to hell, paul! you just go to hell!
speaker5: go ahead! get out of here, you crazy whore.
speaker5: go back to turning tricks in jersey for all i care.
speaker5: how's it goin'? oh, we got food. good.
speaker1: ben?
speaker3: paul?

speaker1: oh, great. jew food. who do you have to to get some bacon around here? 
speaker1: not you, i'm guessing.
speaker2: why don't we go to my office? i'll make you a plate.

speaker1: what is it with your relatives? they tend to overreact quite a bit. 
speaker2: i know. all you did was flash everybody in the dining room.
speaker1: so? from the look of 'em, some of those broads haven't seen the old salcicc' in a long time. it's good for them.
speaker2: well, when the paramedics revive my aunt goldie, i'll be sure to ask her. sit.
speaker2: ah ah ah!
speaker2: so what are you going to do, paul?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: with your life.

speaker1: first i'm gonna find out who's tryin' to kill me. i'm a target. somebody could shoot right through that window -- blow my head off. 
speaker2: okay, that's a priority. have you thought about what you're going to do for work?
speaker1: yeah. i'm too big for a jockey so i was thinkin' maybe a hairdresser.
speaker2: come on. there must be something you like to do.
speaker1: i like hitting a guy on the head with a baseball bat.
speaker2: oh, sporting goods. we'll check the want ads tomorrow but don't get your hopes up. anything else?
speaker1: shylocking, bookmaking, unions, the usual --
speaker2: who are you?
speaker1: who am i? i'm the guy who's paying you $150 an hour to play these stupid games. you know who i am.
speaker2: i know that. i mean what are you?
speaker1: what do you mean, 'what am i?'
speaker2: i just want to know how you see yourself.

speaker1: you're making me very nervous. 
speaker2: just answer the question. what are you?
speaker1: i'm the boss.
speaker2: really? the boss of what -- jelly? you're not the boss of me. so what are you the boss of?
speaker1: you, you're good. i see what you're doing here.
speaker2: what am i doing, paul?
speaker1: you're me off is what you're doing. look at me. it's starting again, the anxiety.
speaker2: i understand.
speaker2: you've spent your whole life becoming who you are and now you can't be that anymore -- that's gotta be scary. if you're not paul vitti the mob boss, who are you?
speaker2: well, let's think. when you were a kid, what did you want to be?
speaker1: i don't know. who remembers that stuff?
speaker2: you must've wanted to be something when you were little -- fireman?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: baseball player?

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: astronaut?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: al capone?
speaker1: yeah, maybe. what did you want to be?
speaker2: we're not talking about me.
speaker1: i am.
speaker2: fine. i wanted to be a philatelist.
speaker1: you wanted to look up people's all day?
speaker2: no, paul, i believe you're thinking of a proctologist. i wanted to collect rare and unusual stamps.
speaker1: you must've been a lot of laughs when you were a kid. lonely, huh?
speaker2: oh yeah. big time. so what did you want to be?
speaker1: it's stupid.
speaker2: you afraid to tell me?
speaker1: yeah, i'm afraid.
speaker2: then tell me. i'm not here to judge you.

speaker1: okay. when i was really little -- like seven or eight -- maybe i wanted to be a cowboy. 
speaker2: a cowboy. really?
speaker1: yeah. my father gave me a cowboy suit -- you know, the vest, the chaps, the cap guns -- the whole thing. and he used to take me up to my uncle's farm in new jersey and lead me around on this pony.
speaker2: so you watched cowboy movies and tv shows with your father.
speaker1: everybody. the whole family. my father loved 'gunsmoke.'
speaker2: sheriff dillon.
speaker1: marshal dillon.
speaker2: marshal. so who were your favorite cowboys?
speaker1: this is so retarded.
speaker2: paul!
speaker1: all right. gene autry, roy rogers, the lone ranger --
speaker2: interesting. they're all good guys.
speaker1: yeah, i guess.
speaker2: no, that's important. you didn't want to be the bad guy. you wanted to be the hero.

speaker1: yeah, so? 
speaker2: so what happened?
speaker1: i don't know. nothing happened.
speaker2: so why didn't you become a cowboy?
speaker1: i lived in east harlem! i joined a street gang when i was 12 and that was it.
speaker2: something else happened when you were twelve.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: something that made you very sad?
speaker1: the dodgers moved from brooklyn to l.a. everybody took it pretty hard.
speaker2: something else.
speaker1: we playin' a guessing game here?
speaker2: paul! your father was murdered!
speaker1: do i remember? i think about it every day of my life. what's that got to do with it?
speaker2: it's got everything to do with it. he gave you the cowboy suit. with a white hat. he was in the mob, but he wanted you to be a good guy, didn't he?

speaker1: yeah. he did. 
speaker2: he didn't want you in the gang life. he only did it himself so you wouldn't have to. he was trying to buy you a better life than his.
speaker1: he always said he wanted me to go to college. i didn't even finish high school.
speaker2: well, paul, this could be a great opportunity for you. you're right back where you were when you were twelve. you've got some big choices to make.
speaker1: okay. okay. that's enough of that
speaker2: it's not paul. my point is, when you're a child, you think anything is possible. wouldn't it be great to think like that now?
speaker1: yeah, just sprinkle some fairy dust on me.
speaker2: i'm just saying you've got to keep an open mind and explore some new possibilities. try some different things -- maybe you'll connect with one of them. there's a career counselor i work with. i can call him for you. he may be able to help you find a job.
speaker1: you mean working for somebody? i'm supposed to take orders from some guy who used to get me coffee?

speaker1: how do you know unless you try? 
speaker2: hiya, doc. sorry about the window.

speaker1: i love lox and bagels. i dated a jewish woman once. actually, she might have been the love of my life, but my mother broke it up. 
speaker1: she was always hockin' me a chinick about the madels. a wonderful woman, my mother, but she hates the hebes.
speaker2: really. more smoked salmon? don't be shy.
speaker3: jelly -- what are you doing here?
speaker1: makin' new friends. how's it going, doc? i brought some clothes for mr.
speaker2: ben?

speaker1: that's great, jelly. i'd love to catch up with you -- outside. 
speaker2: you got it. thanks, mrs. s. so long, everybody. ess gesunterhait.

speaker1: so. long time no see. you look good, doc. 
speaker2: and you, jelly -- you look -- did you get a haircut? i thought you were in prison.
speaker1: it would appear not.
speaker2: how'd you get out?
speaker1: new trial. the evidence in my first trail was, you know, tainted. turns out two of the witnesses against me changed their minds -- and the third one, he died after a short illness.
speaker2: what did he have?
speaker1: gunshot wound to the head.
speaker2: that's not an illness.

speaker1: yeah, but it is short. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker3: i got stuff to do.
speaker2: what kind of stuff?
speaker3: calm down. i'll be back.
speaker2: you can't leave without my permission.
speaker3: oh, yeah? watch me. drive, jelly.
speaker2: that's it, paul. i forbid you to go.
speaker3: stop sweating, doc. i'll be back.
speaker2: if you screw this up, paul -- paul!
speaker2: 
speaker4: so, the fat one -- he's single?

speaker1: paulie, great to see you! you're lookin' good, kid. lookin' very good. jelly, how are ya? 
speaker1: so, paul, we heard you had some trouble while you were away. some 'mental' problems.
speaker2: no, i'm okay. it was an act. i had to pretend i was nuts. there were people watching me all the time.
speaker1: little people?
speaker2: doctors. they never woulda let me out if they thought i was normal.
speaker1: so you ain't crazy?
speaker2: you want to see crazy? just tell me who's trying to kill me. i'll show you crazy.
speaker1: we're in a war, paul -- nobody's safe right now. the rigazzis are walkin' all over us. we got next to nothing coming in, and i don't have to tell you, you don't buy a lot of muscle without money these days. we need you, paul. the family needs you.
speaker2: i can't do it, sal. i'm out of it.
speaker1: come on, paulie. nobody used to do the big jobs like you. air france-- they're still talkin' about it.

speaker1: sal, even if i wanted to -- the feds 
speaker2: after your father died, i always treated you like my own son. you know that.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: he was a good man. i still miss him.
speaker1: yeah, i do too.
speaker2: so you'll think about it. for me, paulie?
speaker1: yeah, okay, i'll think about it.
speaker2: hey, what is this -- a funeral here? you just got back from college for chrissakes. we should be havin' a party for you. hey, nino, give everybody a round here. we gotta drink to paul.
speaker1: i can't, sal. i gotta go talk to the boss.
speaker2: i understand. no problem. it's good to have you back, paul. don't forget what i said. we're countin' on you.

speaker1: yeah, what? 
speaker2: 'yeah, what?' that's how you answer the door?
speaker1: you got a problem with that?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: where is she?
speaker3: in the kitchen, paul.

speaker1: paul -- what a nice surprise. 
speaker2: how's it goin', patty?
speaker1: good. it's good. give me a kiss, you.
speaker2: sorry to hear about carmine. he was a good man.
speaker1: yeah. you live with a person twenty- one years, then one day they're

speaker1: pulling his torso out of the river. 
speaker2: i'll bet -- especially with all the talk about you being the one who put him there.
speaker3: that's why i try not to gossip, paul. it's ugly. just a sec. michelle! teresa! it's ten-thirty! stop around and get ready for ballet! it's hard being a single parent and a career woman.
speaker2: yeah, i'm sure you're very busy.
speaker3: the pressure -- it's awful. for instance, a lot of people think, now that you're out, you're going to try and take the family back from me. but i said, no, paul would never do that. by the way, how are marie and the kids? still in ohio? in shaker heights? at 1356 locust?
speaker2: you even go near them, you crazy

speaker1: don't make me call my guys in. you may need the kicked out of you, but not in here. i just mopped. 
speaker1: wow. have you been working out?
speaker2: yeah, i been workin' out who's trying

speaker1: to kill me. i'd love to hear your thoughts on that. 
speaker2: it's a dog-eat-dog world out there. nobody's gonna be safe unless we can end this thing with the rigazzis.
speaker3: so then you didn't have nothin' to do with it.
speaker2: oh, paul. you actually think i would kill you? all the years we've known each other -- the christmas parties, the fun times at the beach. it wouldn't be right. i want us to be friends. who knows? maybe we'll be more than friends. want to lick my beaters?
speaker3: thanks. i gotta see a guy about a business thing.
speaker2: what kind of business? you know, if you get something going, we would expect some kind of consideration -- a little taste.
speaker3: no, this is a legitimate business.
speaker2: oh, paul. i just got a chill.
speaker3: i just want to be left alone. put my life back together -- straight up this time. put the word out, will ya? nobody's got nothin' to worry about from me.
speaker2: sure, paul. i understand.

speaker1: don't be a stranger! 
speaker1: watch him like a hawk. if he steps out of line, it would break my heart, but shoot him in the head.

speaker1: look at the size of that trunk. you could fit three people in there. not people -- suitcases. it's a joke. 
speaker1: so what are you driving now? mr. macinerny we have a lexus.
speaker1: it's a fancy toyota, right? the japs make good cars, but i ain't that quick to forget pearl harbor.

speaker1: paul, i heard you were out. 
speaker2: hey, joey.
speaker1: all dressed up for dinner, huh?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: paul, that table for six is ready.
speaker1: you're working here?
speaker2: nah -- not really. it's like -- i'm on parole, so i just -- i come in, i greet people.
speaker1: okay. i get it. nice seein' you, paul. don't want to hold you up. you got people to seat.

speaker1: thanks, paul. appreciate it. 
speaker1: hey, could you get us a big bottle of pellegrino and another round of drinks?
speaker1: and more bread when you get a chance.
speaker2: you want more bread?
speaker2: i'll get your drinks now.

speaker1: this stone is supposed to be a 'g' color, but it looks kind of yellow, doesn't it? 
speaker2: fluorescent light. makes everything look yellow.

speaker1: what am i -- edison? i'm telling you, it's a 'g.' he glances at the surveillance cameras. 
speaker2: can i look at it with a lens?

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: a lens. do you have a lens?

speaker1: are you all right? 
speaker2: i'm gonna do us both a big favor. i quit.

speaker1: you want to see the manager? here's the manager. now take a hike, you deadbeats. 
speaker1: get a hyundai!

speaker1: eins, zwei, drei! 
speaker2: what?

speaker1: sit up straight! pay attention when the doctor talks to you. this is costing money. 
speaker2: ma? what are you doin' here?
speaker3: acht gemacht gehunden nicht.
speaker1: i tell him the same thing.

speaker1: don't look, don't look. 
speaker1: do you realize it's almost noon?
speaker2: really? do me a favor, honey -- make me a sandwich.
speaker1: you want a sandwich? make it yourself. i'm not afraid of you, mr. oh-i'm-a-great-big-mobster man. i want you out of my house.
speaker1: i've had it with the bathrobe and the skulking around and the girlfriend who, i'm sorry, is so obviously faking it's not even funny. enough!
speaker2: coulda had that sandwich made by now.
speaker1: okay. you don't like me and i don't like you. we can at least agree on that, right?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: i'm going to be honest with you -- i'm a very anxious person --
speaker2: hey! me, too.
speaker1: we have so much in common. anyway, this is not helping me, it's not helping my marriage, and i know ben really needs some alone time. so i'm asking you -- as a human being -- could you please leave? yes, i'll make you a sandwich.

speaker1: where are you going? 
speaker2: where am i going? the orphanage found my real parents. they want me back. put those in the car. i'm goin' to jelly's.
speaker1: the you are. you're supposed to be in my custody. we have therapy today.
speaker2: for what? the more we talk the worse i get. i had that dream again.
speaker1: the one where you're mussolini?
speaker2: no, the other one.
speaker1: the limp sword dream?
speaker3: i probably shouldn't be listening to this.
speaker2: so don't!
speaker3: sorry.

speaker1: do you think this dream might be sexual? 
speaker2: i know what you're thinkin'. the sword is my and i can't get it up, but that ain't it. i saw sheila last night and i had a hard-on you could swing from.
speaker1: i don't want to know that.
speaker2: you coulda hung wet towels on it.
speaker3: he's like a racehorse in that area.
speaker1: okay! i get it.
speaker2: wait in the car! so what does it mean?
speaker1: can represent a lot of things. in your case i think it's about performance anxiety. trying to find a job that fits.
speaker2: doc -- nothing's gonna fit. that nine-to-five -- i'll kill myself if i have to do that for the rest of my life. you know they take taxes out of your check? what the is that? i'm doomed. i'm gonna end up selling hot dogs on the street. look at me. i'm havin' a panic attack here. my heart's beatin' like a rabbit.
speaker1: you're hyperventilating.

speaker1: breathe into this. 
speaker2: this is your fault.
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: tellin' me i have to get a job like i'm some nobody. it was humiliating! thanks a lot.
speaker1: hey, i'm doing the best i can! if you can't appreciate that, or if my best isn't good enough for you, then maybe you should find somebody else to talk to, you selfish prick! ben breaks down and cries what amounts to one racking sob, then quickly pulls himself together.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: what the was that?
speaker1: i'm fine. i'm grieving. it's a process.
speaker2: now what are you takin'?
speaker1: echinacea and goldenseal. do you know the tv show 'little caesar'?
speaker2: yeah, i know it.
speaker1: the producer of that show is a man

speaker1: named raoul berman. a mutual friend told him i knew you and mr. berman called me this morning. he wants to meet you. 
speaker2: for what?
speaker3: meet him and find out.

speaker1: we finally got him out of the house -- why are we having dinner with him? i mean, how professional is that? 
speaker2: this is not social. paul's meeting a television producer who might have a job for him. he's nervous and wants me here as a buffer. i'm a buffer, that's all.
speaker1: he's a grown man. i don't see why he needs a chaperone.
speaker2: he doesn't. he needs a buffer. i'm here in buffer capacity only.
speaker1: ben, if you say 'buffer' one more time
speaker1: didn't you just take two of those?
speaker2: no, that was something else.
speaker1: well, you better not drink anything.
speaker2: laura? i'm a doctor? i think i know what i'm doing.

speaker1: i adore this place. best sushi in town. have you tried the yellowtail, paul? 
speaker2: bait! that's funny. honey, did you hear what paul just said? he said this is like eating bait.
speaker3: i heard him. and i think it was 'effing bait.'

speaker1: why you talkin' like that? 
speaker2: like what?
speaker1: like a retard.
speaker2: oh -- this? i took a couple ibuprofen before we got here -- i shouldn't have had the saki. i'll be fine. it only lasts a couple hours. rah-oo. row. rowl. i guess you need both lips for that name. you know what i love about paul? he was born without a filter. he says exactly what he's thinking -- just lays it right out there. he doesn't edit himself.
speaker1: you wanna shut the up?
speaker2: see? he just told me to shut the up. no filter. i love that. isn't he great?
speaker3: too much buffering. way too much.
speaker4: yes. paul, i'm such a huge fan of yours -- not a fan, but you know, an admirer.
speaker1: don't admire me too much.
speaker4: is there any chance you might be interested in working on 'little caesar' as a consultant? give us technical advice, coach the actors, make sure the dialogue rings true --

speaker1: wow. that would be incredible. did you hear that, paul? raoul wants to know if you'd be interested in working on his show as a consultant. you know, give technical advice, coach the actors -- 
speaker2: in two seconds i'm gonna put a fork in your eye.
speaker1: got it.
speaker3: so what do you think, paul?
speaker2: yeah, sure, whatever.
speaker3: fantastic!
speaker4: this is so exciting. mr. berman, i love your show. anthony bella, the guy who plays nicky caesar -- i think he grew up in bensonhurst next door to my cousin's friend's husband.
speaker2: that's her claim to fame. i hate to bust your bubble, but he's not from bensonhurst. he's a professional italian. he grew up in connecticut or something like that.
speaker4: well, wherever he's from, i think he's a wonderful actor.
speaker5: yeah, i bet he gets a lot of pussy.
speaker2: what's the matter with you? we got women at the table.
speaker5: you said 'fuckin'.'

speaker1: that's different. it's colorful. 
speaker2: hey, speaking of colorful -- this peacock walks into a bar --
speaker3: oh, my could i get another one, please?
speaker2: and one for me.
speaker3: no. no more for the buffer.
speaker1: so. i see in the paper where oklahoma! might win the tony award.
speaker1: down!!!

speaker1: nobody's hurt. vitti helps sheila to her feet. 
speaker2: what the was that?
speaker3: i think somebody's got it in for raoul.

speaker1: raoul crawls up from behind the table. 
speaker2: holy that was phenomenal!

speaker1: hey, pal -- got a light? 
speaker2: where's your cigarette?
speaker1: i'm trying to cut down.

speaker1: i don't know why you feel you have to save this man. 
speaker2: it's my job. he needs me.
speaker1: so that automatically means you have to help him? you're always doing this -- putting other people's needs ahead of your own, like you're this martyr or saint or something. it's like living with mother teresa.

speaker1: actually, i hear she was tough to live with. lot of parties, loud music -- lepers. 
speaker2: you don't need this in your life -- especially not now. you really need to be grieving for your father.
speaker1: i am.
speaker2: really? i haven't seen it.
speaker1: well, you know, it's a process. i mean, we had issues -- there's some anger -- but i'll work it out.
speaker2: it's okay, honey. you can let it go.
speaker1: no, i'm -- it's okay.
speaker1: it's just a confusing time. i became a therapist because he was a therapist, so obviously his approval was very important to me. but is that the only reason i did it? i don't know. and now that he's gone, why do i keep doing it? is this what i really want?
speaker2: i just want you to be happy.
speaker1: maybe you're right. maybe it's time i started focusing on me, and, you know, satisfying some of

speaker1: my desires. 
speaker2: oh, honey, i just brushed my teeth.
speaker3: no, that's not what i meant. i just need -- i don't know what.

speaker1: i'm gonna ask you once nicely. who you working for? 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: me? fine. jelly?
speaker1: i'll ask you again. who you working for?
speaker3: he's screamin' too loud. hold on a second.
speaker3: go ahead.
speaker1: who are you working for?

speaker1: nobody! 
speaker2: drop him, jelly.
speaker1: okay! okay! rigazzi! i'm working for rigazzi!
speaker2: pull him back up. jelly drops the guy.
speaker2: what's the matter with you?
speaker3: you said drop him.
speaker2: i said pull him back up.
speaker3: that's not what i heard.
speaker2: you heard what you wanted to hear.
speaker3: okay, you got me there.

speaker1: vitti threw me off a roof. 
speaker2: vitti? you talked to vitti? what did you say to him?
speaker1: nothing. i didn't tell him anything. mr. rigazzi, can i go -- i think my leg's broken.
speaker2: that must hurt.
speaker2: i hate to see people in pain. get him out of here.
speaker3: what about vitti?
speaker2: he's a hard man to kill. but he's not immortal. our time will come.

speaker1: i like mine burnt. 
speaker2: i don't know how you like your sausage? twenty years we been doin' this. so you got the money?

speaker1: not all of it. i'm still light about fifteen large. can we cut? this is ridiculous. 
speaker2: this is the problem with shooting on location. but it's worth it for the authenticity.
speaker3: yeah, this is real authentic.
speaker2: tony! come here a second. anthony bella. he plays nicky caesar.
speaker3: i know who he is. they used to watch the show up at sing sing.
speaker2: are you me?
speaker2: tony, this is paul vitti.
speaker4: you don't have to tell me who he is. it's a pleasure, mate.

speaker1: mate? i don't believe this! you're an english guy? you ain't even italian. 
speaker2: australian-italian. we got some paisans down under.
speaker1: down under what?
speaker3: how incredible is this? paul tells me they watch the show in sing sing!
speaker2: fantastic! that's so great.
speaker1: i wouldn't wet my pants over it. they watch 'supermarket sweep,' too.
speaker1: you laugh too much.
speaker2: so, paul, you going to join us?
speaker1: yeah. you got a good setup here.
speaker2: great. see you later then.
speaker1: coupla things, though. i don't know who makes these decisions, but some of this, it don't look right.
speaker3: i sensed it myself. which elements strike you as wrong?
speaker1: the people mainly. i mean, you got a boss who speaks australian. what the is that? and i'm guessing your

speaker1: background is -- what? 
speaker2: the theater, mostly.
speaker3: yeah, the theater. so how about if i bring in some guys that i know -- you know, more 'authentic.'
speaker2: i would be eternally grateful.
speaker3: yeah. one of those trailers like the stars have.
speaker2: done. i'll put that in the works right now.
speaker4: you really gonna do this?
speaker3: no way. i've had it with this job a week of this and i'd either shoot myself or shoot raoul. but it's good cover while i figure out my next move. call the guys.
speaker4: you got it.

speaker1: ripping out whole sections. 
speaker2: they're ready to start shooting, mr.
speaker3: yeah, ten minutes, tell 'em.

speaker1: walk this way. 
speaker2: there must be some mistake. i didn't order a limo.
speaker1: get in the car.

speaker1: you're the shrink who's taking care of paul vitti? 
speaker2: yes, sir. that's right. could you be careful, because i think they put the eggs on the bottom.
speaker1: so? is he nuts or what?
speaker2: who?
speaker1: paulie. is he nuts?
speaker2: i can't discuss a patient's case with anyone --
speaker1: discuss it.
speaker2: i'd say he's still suffering from chronic anxiety and -- he hesitates.
speaker1: and what.
speaker2: we call it antisocial personality disorder. sociopathy.
speaker1: meaning what?
speaker2: meaning -- he -- fails to conform to societal norms with respect to -- lawful behavior.
speaker1: i'm getting a headache here.

speaker1: what are you saying? 
speaker2: he's got a -- criminal temperament.
speaker3: he's a criminal? this is news? and for that you need a doctor degree? so what are you doin' with him?
speaker2: well, i'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change --
speaker4: wrong. you do not want him to change.
speaker2: we haven't really been introduced --
speaker3: this is mrs. lopresti.
speaker4: patty.
speaker2: ben sobel.
speaker4: ben, paul vitti is important to this family. we don't want to see you turn him into a stromboni.
speaker2: a stromboni? that thing they clean the ice with at hockey games?
speaker3: that's a zamboni, stromboni.
speaker4: it's a bull with his cut off.
speaker2: no, we don't want to do that.

speaker1: not unless you want to be one, too. 
speaker2: me? no. i'm very attached to my balls. as you can probably tell.
speaker1: then do the right thing, understand?
speaker2: yes, i understand completely. may i go now? i have perishables -- he takes his groceries and edges away.

speaker1: we're gonna need a grapple or a crane with maybe a fifty-foot boom. 
speaker2: i seen one -- in bayonne -- but i'll call around.
speaker1: see what you can come up with. and we're gonna need a city bus.
speaker3: i got a guy in the transit authority.
speaker4: paul! hello!
speaker4: i guess everybody's gone hollywood, huh?
speaker1: how you doin', patty.

speaker1: jelly -- you're working here, too? 
speaker2: i'm an extra.
speaker1: an extra what?
speaker2: a supernumerary. an 'atmosphere.' it ain't bad. you just stand around all day waitin' for them to shoot and they pay you eighty bucks.
speaker1: eighty bucks? for standin' around all day? you used to sneeze eighty bucks.
speaker2: today? about eight hundred maybe.
speaker1: and how about bookin' bets for the teamsters and the crew?
speaker2: another grand. one of the producers really likes the ponies.
speaker1: so eighteen hundred bucks.
speaker2: plus eighty --
speaker1: i know -- extra. they all laugh.
speaker3: this is a closed set. we're about to start shooting.
speaker4: yeah? so am i.

speaker1: should i wait here, mr. rigazzi? 
speaker2: no, pull the car up your and wait there.

speaker1: i heard you had some more trouble. 
speaker2: one of rigazzi's guys took a shot at me.
speaker1: i don't have to tell you, paul. alone on the street you don't stand a chance. that's what the family's all about. since the old days, when the grandfathers first came over. that's not something you just walk away from.
speaker2: yeah, i know. when you're a jet, you're a jet all the way.
speaker1: so you want to tell me what's going on here? it looks like you got your whole crew back together.
speaker2: nothing's going on. they're actors.
speaker1: don't me, paul. you're planning something. i'm feeling very left out.
speaker2: okay. something big is going down, but you're getting a cut. my hand to

speaker1: you're a good friend, paul. and i would never think of insisting on this, but i'd feel better if you brought in eddie and some of my guys to help with the job. 
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker1: then i'll have to insist.
speaker2: whatever. raoul approaches and eyes patty disdainfully.
speaker3: oh, dear first of all, sweetheart, we're not shooting the scene until tomorrow. and the hair -- please, what is that?
speaker1: excuse me?
speaker2: raoul, this is a friend of mine. patty lopresti.
speaker3: mrs. lopresti -- i am so very, very
speaker3: how dare you not inform me mrs. lopresti was on the set. you're fired! enjoy your visit with us. if there's anything i can do --
speaker1: go yourself.
speaker3: immediately.
speaker1: it's good to have you back, paul.

speaker1: i mean, tell me -- was she angry? am i in any danger? 
speaker2: no, you're fine. but you might want to have somebody else start your car the next couple of weeks.
speaker1: i'll have brian do it. he's new.
speaker3: could i talk to you for a second?
speaker1: oh, what is this now, the bus and truck tour of guys and dolls?
speaker2: this is lou rigazzi.

speaker1: raoul freezes. 
speaker2: 'the wrench.'
speaker2: please, forgive me. i'm on painkillers -- half the time i don't know what i'm saying.
speaker3: get lost.
speaker2: certainly. brian! get my car!
speaker3: i need a couple minutes.
speaker4: this way.

speaker1: the guy who shot at you -- he was acting on his own. i never gave an order. 
speaker2: is that right?
speaker1: and he's been taken care of. there won't be another incident. unless you're thinkin' of workin' for patty lopresti.
speaker2: me? no.
speaker1: good. then i got no beef with you.

speaker1: thanks. i'll sleep much better. 
speaker2: because that would not be the way to go. you want to back a winner, which is gonna be me. it only makes sense. you come work for us. i'll treat you right.
speaker1: i don't think so.

speaker1: hey, dr. sobel? 
speaker2: jelly, hi. hey! yo-yo!
speaker1: it's mo-mo.
speaker2: right. i was thinking of the cellist.
speaker3: goin' good. i did a 'law and order' last week, i had a line on 'sex and the city' --
speaker4: i'm up for a recurring on 'nypd blue.'
speaker2: that's great. have you seen paul?
speaker1: yeah, i think he's in his camper.

speaker1: hey, doc. what are you doing here? 
speaker2: no, what are you doing here? i came to tell you we have a preliminary meeting with your parole officer and who do i run into? patty lopresti.
speaker1: patty who?
speaker2: what is this -- a knock-knock joke? patty-who-kidnapped-me-and-threatened- to-cut-off-my-balls. stop lying to me, paul. your whole gang is here.
speaker1: who says i'm lying? i finally get a straight job and start putting my life in order and you come in here and start accusing me! that's how much you trust me?
speaker2: it's not that i don't trust you, i just don't -- trust you. are you lying to me? because i know you, paul. you'll say or do anything to get your own way.
speaker1: this is what's so hard about being an ex-con. you make one little mistake in your life and people never let you forget it.
speaker2: oh, so now you're the victim? i want the truth.
speaker1: wait a second. say that again.

speaker1: say what? 
speaker2: 'i want the truth.' say it -- like you did just now.
speaker1: i want the truth?
speaker2: no, strong, like before.
speaker1: i want the truth!
speaker2: yeah, that's good!
speaker1: paul --
speaker2: no, i'm serious. that had power. i believed it. you could be an actor.
speaker1: i'm not an actor --
speaker2: hey, you're as good as most of the bums i see around here. they have this part. you could do it.
speaker1: actually, i did the music man in tenth grade.
speaker2: of course. i'm gonna talk to raoul.
speaker1: about being on the show? i couldn't -

speaker1: we're rolling. 
speaker2: sound speed.
speaker3: action!

speaker1: does that screaming sound real to you? 
speaker2: oh, yeah. that sounds real.

speaker1: it's not funny! there was no safety harness or anything. they could have dropped me. 
speaker2: hey, if you didn't want to do it, why didn't you say something?
speaker1: i know exactly what that was about. you resent the fact that you've been put in my custody, so you passive- aggressively arranged things to make me look like a fool.
speaker2: come on -- you were great.
speaker1: really? i was scared at first, but on the second take, i think i found some good stuff. i was able to texture the screaming --

speaker1: vitti is laughing. 
speaker2: oh, screw you, paul. just screw you.
speaker3: what, are you self-medicating again? and don't give that decongestant multi-vitamin
speaker2: don't worry about me. just worry about what you're going to say to this parole officer. what are you going to say? that you've moved out of my house. that you've got your old gang back together. for what, a high school drop-out reunion?
speaker3: i'm gonna say that's none of his business.
speaker2: it's my business. i want to know.
speaker3: you recognize that car?
speaker2: which car?
speaker3: the one that's been following us the last mile and a half.
speaker3: lose 'em.
speaker2: what do you mean, 'lose 'em'?

speaker1: maybe i should just pull over. it could be the f.b.i. 
speaker2: no, they're two cars back. you gotta be a little more observant, doc. turn left.
speaker1: what if we just stop and get out? they're not going to shoot us in broad daylight.
speaker2: broad daylight's the best time. you can see better. take a right. now!

speaker1: we can't do this, paul! we have to stop! this is a lease! 
speaker1: it's a lease!
speaker2: move over. i'll drive.
speaker1: move over? where?
speaker2: backseat. now!
speaker1: seat belt.

speaker1: hang on. 
speaker2: it's gonna get worse?

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: i wanted to save the crossword.
speaker1: throw it!

speaker1: you think they'll get out? 
speaker2: yeah, that's james bond and the 'sea hunt' guy in there, so they got a pretty good shot.
speaker1: where're you going?
speaker2: i gotta take care of something.
speaker1: but your parole officer --
speaker2: send my regrets.
speaker1: i'm warning you. if you leave now --
speaker2: so long, doc.

speaker1: that's it! i'm finished! you're on your own now, pal! i'm -- 
speaker1: -- screwed.

speaker1: where is he, dr. sobel? 
speaker2: i wish i knew.
speaker1: well, considering that he's in your custody, that's not quite the answer i was looking for. he's got something big in the works. you want to tell me what you know?
speaker2: i don't know anything. as far as i can tell, he's making a real effort to go straight.
speaker1: yeah, that's why i've got two corpses at the bottom of the river.
speaker1: here. vitti with sal masiello. vitti with patty lopresti. vitti with lou rigazzi. let me know -- i can order some wallet size for you. i've got more than enough to put him away again without these. violation of parole, second-degree murder here. when i really start digging, it'll be amazing

speaker1: what i come up with. you have twenty- four hours to find him and deliver him to me. otherwise you're looking at obstruction of justice, and accessory to felony manslaughter. and trust me, dr. sobel, if you don't like me now, you really don't want to see me in court. 
speaker2: i'm getting that. can i go now?
speaker3: you can't take your car. we're impounding it as evidence.
speaker2: then can somebody give me a ride home?
speaker3: yeah, the government runs a limousine service. the number is 1-800-fuck off.

speaker1: i don't have a lot of time. they're probably gonna come lookin' for me, so we'll go over everything later, okay? 
speaker2: paul, not that i'm questioning, but what do we want with eddie devol?
speaker1: look, i'm not happy about it, but if it keeps patty off my back, so be it. they're meeting us at the club. let's head out. not all at once. i gotta tell you everything?

speaker1: mr. vitti? mr. bella asked if you could meet him in the makeup trailer. 
speaker2: no, i gotta go.
speaker1: he said it was important.
speaker2: i'll talk to him tomorrow.
speaker2: here -- tell him you couldn't find me.

speaker1: paul! excellent! 
speaker2: can't really talk right now, mate.
speaker1: two seconds. please, paul. it's really important.

speaker1: when franny left me. oh, and i punched a car, a van actually, when peezee screwed up the big drug deal. so i'd like to find something different, that doesn't involve, you know, punching anything. 
speaker2: try kickin' something. let me know how it works out.
speaker3: wait, paul. that's interesting. like what?
speaker2: i don't know. you could kick a guy in the face.
speaker3: who?
speaker2: just some guy! you knock him down, give him a couple quick kicks in the head while he's on the ground.
speaker3: why?
speaker2: why not? because he's there and you're off.
speaker3: you've done that?
speaker2: maybe once or twice. look, i got people waiting.
speaker3: my character wouldn't do that. what else?
speaker2: i don't know. you could yell real loud?

speaker1: yell real loud? that's original. 
speaker2: or keep your mouth shut! who gives a what you do, for cryin' out loud?
speaker1: who gives a what you do, for cryin' out loud?
speaker2: what are you doin'?
speaker1: what are you doin'?
speaker2: okay, you can cut that out right now.
speaker1: okay, you can cut that out right now.
speaker2: hey, i'm serious, asshole!
speaker1: hey, i'm serious, asshole!

speaker1: jelly! where's paul? 
speaker1: michael? what are you doing?
speaker2: working.
speaker1: you got a job? that's great. look how handsome you look in that suit.
speaker2: i'm working for mr. vitti. i'm his driver.
speaker1: oh, no, you're not!
speaker2: you keep telling me to get a job!
speaker1: i meant making sandwiches at the subway, not driving a getaway car!
speaker2: he's paying me twenty dollars an hour.
speaker1: i don't care if he pays you two hundred an hour, you're not doing it.
speaker2: dad --
speaker1: he had no right to ask you without my permission. where is he?
speaker2: i can't tell you.
speaker1: what do you mean you can't tell me?

speaker1: i promised i'd never repeat anything i heard in the car. i took an oath. 
speaker2: you took an oath! oh, my was there blood involved?
speaker1: dad, i gave my word.
speaker3: ben? where've you been? what happened to you?
speaker2: i was in a car chase. there was a little shooting -- not that much really -- then they -- drove into the river. it wasn't as bad as it sounds.
speaker3: when is this going to end?
speaker2: tonight, i hope. i just have to find him and --
speaker3: why? a few days ago you weren't even sure you still wanted to be a therapist. now you're going to risk your life again for that lout.
speaker2: yeah, but he's an amazing lout, isn't he? i can't quit now. you know that.
speaker3: go. just don't get shot -- please?
speaker2: i love you.
speaker2: all right, where is he?
speaker1: i can't.

speaker1: you tell your father right now or i'll give you such a smack it won't even be funny! 
speaker2: okay! i dropped him at the club.
speaker3: what club?
speaker2: little darling's in queens.
speaker3: okay, mafiaboy, give me your car keys.
speaker2: i'm grounded?
speaker3: no, i'm borrowing your car.

speaker1: jelly! 
speaker2: hey, doc. what are you doin' here?
speaker1: where's paul?
speaker2: i think she likes you, doc. give her a couple of bucks.
speaker1: can you break a twenty?
speaker1: do i just make my own change?
speaker1: okay, paul, what's going on?

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i could ask you the same thing.
speaker1: what's it look like? we're just blowin' off a little steam. what's the big deal?

speaker1: how's it goin', paulie? you know my guys -- enormous bobby and al pacino? 
speaker2: al pacino? that's your real name?
speaker3: no. people call me that because i look like al pacino. the actor.
speaker2: anybody ever call you carol burnett?
speaker3: no. why?
speaker2: 'cause you look about as much like carol burnett as you look like al pacino.
speaker4: i do see a little pacino there -- around the eyes.
speaker1: so we're all here. let's do it.
speaker4: let's do what?

speaker1: you better get out of here. 
speaker2: i'm not going until you tell me what's going on here.

speaker1: okay, this is big and we only get one shot at it; and there's only about a million ways this thing can go bad, so listen up. 
speaker1: the federal gold depository in lower manhattan. three times a year a shipment of gold bars goes in a heavily-guarded armored truck from the depository to the vault at the federal reserve to hold for foreign governments that trade in bullion. at three o'clock in the morning -- eight hours from now --we're gonna hijack that truck.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: i found this guy listening at the door.
speaker3: hey, guys. how's it going?
speaker1: who is this guy?
speaker3: ben sobel. sorry, i can't move my head to the right. boy, i hope that's not permanent.
speaker1: get rid of him.
speaker3: hi, carol.
speaker4: you're a dead man, let's go.

speaker1: he starts muscling ben to the door. 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker3: what do you think? he can make every guy in this room.
speaker4: oh, i'm not into that, fellas.
speaker2: get your hands off him! he's with me.
speaker3: what, on the job?
speaker3: either he's in, or he's dead. which is it?
speaker4: i think in is better.
speaker2: he's in. he's my responsibility.
speaker3: okay, no more surprises. and from this moment on, no one leaves my sight. got it? now go through it one more time.
speaker2: okay -- everybody listen up.
speaker4: wait! okay. go ahead.

speaker1: where's vitti? i don't see vitti. 
speaker2: it!

speaker1: here. see if this'll fit under your shirt. 
speaker2: i could fit you under my shirt. don't they have anything smaller?
speaker1: this ain't bloomingdale's. nobody knew you were comin'. you're lucky you're alive, doc.
speaker2: nobody's going to be alive when this is over. what kind of plan is this?
speaker1: watch it. it may be crazy but it ain't stupid. if you want to stay alive, just keep your mouth shut, do everything i tell you and try not to pee in your pants. can you handle an m-16?
speaker2: you mean shoot it?
speaker1: no, i mean twirl it like a baton. how about an a.k.?

speaker1: he holds up another rifle. 
speaker2: jelly --
speaker2: couldn't i just take this?
speaker3: yeah, that's a good one. that gun brings back a lot of fond memories. use it in good health.
speaker2: ooh, cold -- cold.
speaker4: check the bus.
speaker4: if we can, i'm gonna get you out before the real goes down. just don't flip out on me, okay?

speaker1: you are making a huge mistake. you know that, don't you? 
speaker2: you said it yourself. it's my nature.
speaker1: it's not your nature! you have a choice.
speaker2: what are you, jiminy cricket? i don't know what planet you live on, but here on earth it's 'might makes right.' read the papers. the guys with the guns make the rules.
speaker1: so i guess that makes me a real man now. what happened to the white hat, paul? your father wasn't wrong. you could be one of the good guys.
speaker2: enough. say one more word about my father and i'll break your head.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: i have five to three. they should start movin' any minute. 
speaker2: i have three-o-six.
speaker1: let's see your watch.
speaker3: they're moving!

speaker1: sees the signal. 
speaker1: go!

speaker1: paul, it's not too late. don't do this. 
speaker2: let's go.
speaker1: ow!

speaker1: get the ramp! 
speaker2: you know, this might just work.

speaker1: they can't get over the wire. 
speaker2: then knock down the gates!

speaker1: forty bars. that's all we need. 
speaker2: how much is that?
speaker1: $350 an ounce, 16 ounces in a pound, 90 pounds in each bar -- do the math.
speaker3: actually, gold is measured in troy ounces. 14.6 ounces to the pound.
speaker2: really?
speaker3: give or take.

speaker1: you know what you said about not flipping out? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: sorry. what did i do? what did i do? i had a perfect life, i threw it away.
speaker2: don't do this.
speaker1: i can't help it! my life is over! i'm going to jail. some people can handle prison -- i'm not one of them. i have delicate features. i'm small. i'll be way too popular!
speaker2: calm down.
speaker1: i can't calm down! i'm gonna die!
speaker2: you're not gonna die!

speaker1: i can't breathe! i'm suffocating! 
speaker2: for chrissake, get hold of yourself!
speaker1: i can't! i'm dying! we're all going to die!
speaker1: did i just hit you?
speaker2: yeah. feel better now?
speaker1: i'm sorry, paul. i blame myself for this. i wanted to help you. i wanted to be there for you. but i just wasn't good enough.
speaker2: you were good. it isn't your fault.
speaker1: no, it is. since my father died -- i've lost my way. i don't know anything anymore. i mean, what's the point? i didn't think it would hit me so hard --
speaker2: would you just shut up about your father!
speaker1: i'm grieving, goddammit! have a little respect!
speaker2: he was an -- you said it yourself. what are you grieving for?
speaker1: i'm grieving for myself, you

speaker1: jeez, i'm sorry. 
speaker2: now i know how you must have felt when your father was killed.
speaker2: i mean, it had to be ten times worse for you -- being murdered right in front of you. and you were so young -

speaker1: we don't have time for this. 
speaker2: it must've been so painful!
speaker1: i'm warning you -- don't do this --
speaker2: i mean, it's like all his hopes for you died with him. and that's so sad.
speaker1: there i go. you happy now? you see what you're doing here?
speaker2: your father really loved you.
speaker1: i loved him, too. i did.
speaker2: i know. i know.
speaker3: oh, boy. this is bad.

speaker1: maybe we oughta should go. 
speaker2: did you really think you were gonna live through this?
speaker3: i had my hopes.
speaker2: yeah, well, nice work. mr. rigazzi will be very grateful.
speaker4: rigazzi? i thought he worked for patti lopresti.
speaker3: that's what patty thought, too. this scumbag's been playin' both sides against the middle.
speaker2: there's only one side as far as i'm concerned. mine. what did you think? i was just gonna stand by and let some has-been move back in? so long, mr. vitti.
speaker4: i can't take it anymore! that's what i hate about you sociopaths! you just keep changing the rules to suit yourselves. well, not this time, you anti-social you with the wrong shrink!
speaker4: don't you read the papers? the guy

speaker1: with the gun makes the rules. 
speaker2: yeah, what?

speaker1: on the floor! face-down! now! 
speaker2: nice goin'. good plan.
speaker3: what's a sociopath? the marshals handcuff them.
speaker4: they're escaping out the back! get over there! move it!

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: what are you doing on my street?
speaker3: i have a permit!
speaker2: i don't give a about your permit! the assistant director addresses the tv crew.
speaker4: all right, people. back to one and let's try it again! release the traffic and reset for another take.

speaker1: that's it. we're screwed. 
speaker2: you!
speaker1: yes, officer?
speaker2: you're one tough shrink.

speaker1: feeling pretty good, huh? 
speaker2: i felt worse.
speaker1: so what now? you go on the run for the rest of your life? back to sing sing? or you turn up dead in an alley?
speaker2: those are my choices? what happened to lying on a beach in costa rica for the next twenty years? you can't let me enjoy this for five minutes?

speaker1: five minutes? and then what? 
speaker2: and then what? i'll show you.

speaker1: hi, paul. how'd it go? 
speaker2: not so good.
speaker1: yeah, i heard. it's all over the television. i never should've trusted eddie. but, you know, a woman alone in the world is very vulnerable.
speaker2: yeah, i know.
speaker1: at least i don't have to worry about the rigazzis no more. thanks to you.
speaker2: i told you -- i just want to be left

speaker1: alone. 
speaker2: i know. i'll make sure. how about some breakfast? i could make you some waffles and -- whatever else you want.
speaker3: can't do that.
speaker2: well, if you ever change your mind -- good luck, paul.

speaker1: did you see patti? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: did she grab your balls?
speaker2: what kind of question is that? she's cool. she's just happy to have 'the wrench' out of the way.
speaker1: well, i talked to the u.s. attorney.
speaker2: did he grab your balls?
speaker1: no, paul, he did not grab my balls. he thanked me for tipping him off about the gold. and he said he won't be coming after you if you stay out of trouble. so what do you think?
speaker2: i'm gonna go to ohio -- get marie and the kids -- then we'll probably disappear for awhile -- figure out all

speaker1: this future stuff -- away from all the pressure. 
speaker2: good idea. change is hard, paul. but you did the right thing.
speaker3: yeah, you, too. you hung in there.
speaker2: well, i just --
speaker3: no, you were like an animal back there.
speaker2: i just vented my displaced aggression
speaker3: no. i'm telling you. you're a monster. i saw the beast in you.
speaker2: i'm not a beast. i can handle myself if i have to --
speaker3: handle yourself? you were john wayne.
speaker2: well, i wrestled a bit in high school -- 122 pounds.
speaker3: yeah, i could tell. you're good, you.
speaker2: i'm not --
speaker3: paul, i just --
speaker3: no. you are good. you got a gift, my friend.
speaker2: fine. i have a gift.
speaker3: so -- happy ending, huh?

speaker1: well, i think so. don't you feel better now? 
speaker2: are you kidding? i feel like all that work for nothing. 20 million bucks.
speaker1: you're grieving -- it's a process.
speaker2: take it easy, doc.
speaker1: you, too, paul.
speaker2: hey, doc! 'there's a place for us -- '
speaker1: 'a time and place for us -- '
speaker3: 'hold my hand we're halfway there -- '
speaker4: 'hold my hand and i'll take you there. somehow, someday, somewhere.'

