speaker1: this car has to go back. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: this car has to go back to where it came from. put it back on the truck.
speaker2: what are you talking about, kid?
speaker1: stop unhooking it. there's been a mistake.
speaker2: i was told to bring it here. that's what it says on my work order. talk to that guy if you've got a problem.

speaker1: hey, bill. 
speaker2: this car has to go back where it came from.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: it was brought here by mistake. larry smiles at the little out-of-breath kid.
speaker1: and where was it supposed to go?
speaker2: it wasn't supposed to go anywhere. it needs to go back where it came from. the guy who sold it to you made a mistake.
speaker1: what's the deal with this car again, tony?
speaker3: ah let's see, we bought this car yesterday afternoon from a paul forney-
speaker2: that's my dad. it wasn't his to sell.
speaker1: well, it's his name on the pink slip, son. and that means it's his to sell if he wants.
speaker2: yeah, but i'm just telling you it was a mistake, ok, so it needs to go back where it came from.

speaker1: thanks, bill. 
speaker1: you got that work order there?
speaker1: get out of the car, son.
speaker1: dustin, get him outta there, will ya?
speaker2: come on dude, get out of the car.
speaker2: c'mon. open it.
speaker2: ow, what the you doing? open it.
speaker2: put down the window. i'm serious.

speaker1: there's still plenty of applesauce boys. 
speaker2: i don't get why what i think doesn't matter.
speaker3: it couldn't stay in the front of the house anymore, tj. i'm not having this conversation again.
speaker2: yeah, why not?
speaker3: it's there everyday and i have to look at it.
speaker2: when do you look at it? when was the last time you got off the couch?
speaker3: it's not healthy.
speaker2: neither are all the pills you're taking, but i don't tell you not to take them.
speaker3: i don't wanna talk about it anymore.

speaker1: i do. 
speaker2: i don't. and that's it.
speaker3: it's ok dear. he just needs time. it's his first day back tomorrow. lets try and be patient.
speaker3: one thing at a time dear. one thing at a time.
speaker2: yeah, i know, mom.

speaker1: can i have some money so i can buy lunch today? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: the you think you're doing!? 
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: you got five seconds or i'm gonna cut your nose off.
speaker2: i was just, i was just going to school. i, i didn't know anyone was here.
speaker1: you're gonna -
speaker1: you just me.

speaker1: what the hell- 
speaker1: hey! get back here!

speaker1: hey, teej. welcome back, man. 
speaker1: how you feeling, man?
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: i came by your house a while ago, see if you wanted to come skateboarding or something, but it looked like the place was empty. have you moved or something?
speaker3: yeah, i tried calling you a bunch of times, but it kept saying there was a new number or something.
speaker2: yeah, we moved in with my grandma for a little while.
speaker3: oh ok, cool... i didn't want to call cause i didn't know. you want some of my bagel?
speaker2: no. thanks.
speaker3: hey, can i be the first one to sign your cast?
speaker2: ah, if you want i guess, but i'm getting it off tomorrow, so there's no point really.
speaker3: ok, cool. well, welcome back, man.

speaker1: cerisola? cimino? cody? cooper? early? 
speaker1: forney. tj forney's back. welcome back, tj.
speaker1: folks? fullwood? greenberg? herriman?

speaker1: leave me alone. 
speaker2: how about you my cock?
speaker2: huh? my cock.
speaker2: my cock.
speaker2: my cock.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, i heard you. your cock. then why don't you pull it out?
speaker2: what'd you say,
speaker2: don't talk back to me.
speaker3: fight, fight, fight...

speaker1: i didn't start anything. he pushed me. 
speaker2: what he did or didn't do isn't important. what's important is what you do, and how you react. do you understand?
speaker1: not really.
speaker2: which part don't you understand?
speaker1: i don't understand the part about how it's not important that he pushed me and he punched me and he kicked me and he told me to his and now i'm the bad guy sitting in the office.
speaker2: hey, hey, hey. i do not wanna hear that kind of language in my office.
speaker1: yeah, but i didn't -
speaker2: listen, i'm gonna cut you some slack, but you're gonna have to meet me halfway here.
speaker2: i should really be suspending you, but i won't if you can promise me you'll put in a real effort...
speaker3: are you listening?

speaker1: hi, pumpkin. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: how was your day?
speaker2: pretty much sucked.
speaker1: why sweetheart?
speaker2: i don't know. it just sucked.

speaker1: do you want me to turn on the light for you? 
speaker2: do i look like i'm sitting in darkness here?
speaker1: i don't know, maybe, a little.
speaker2: maybe i need new glasses?
speaker2: actually, i don't even know if these are mine.
speaker1: whose are they?
speaker2: geez, i don't know.
speaker1: well, can you see better with them?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: you know my mother always told me that i'd damage my eyes if i read by poor light and i always think about that when i'm reading, but i've gotten this far, so why am i still worrying about it? why am i even reading? there's something more i need to learn?
speaker2: i guess there's always something more to learn.

speaker1: is is your dad up yet? 
speaker2: no. why, has he been sleeping all day?
speaker1: well, you know, sometimes people get knocked off course a little when bad things happen. but they come good in the end.

speaker1: here's some milk to wet your whistle. 
speaker2: thanks mom.
speaker2: hey teej.
speaker3: hey.
speaker1: take some applesauce, sweetheart.
speaker2: what's the time?
speaker3: it's six o'clock. have you been sleeping all day?

speaker1: i just had to lay down for a bit. 
speaker1: how was school?
speaker2: fine. when are you going back to work?
speaker1: that's a good question.
speaker2: are you gonna answer it?
speaker1: i don't know. i'm not ready yet.
speaker2: i'm not ready yet either.
speaker3: tj, would you please pass me the salt?
speaker3: did you know that when albert einstein interviewed people for a job, he would take them out for lunch and if they put salt on their food before tasting it, he would not give them the job.
speaker3: i've always liked that.

speaker1: whoa, that's like an eight week old dirty sock. ok, so how does that feel? you wanna turn your wrist like this for me? 
speaker1: and like this.
speaker1: any pain or discomfort?
speaker2: i don't know. it feels kinda weird, i can't tell.
speaker1: it will feel strange for a few days, but should start to feel normal again soon. alright, lookin' good. i s'pose i should write you a note for school.
speaker1: how's your dad doing?
speaker2: not great. i don't know. you should probably just ask him yourself.

speaker1: if we consider that dreams serve a metaphoric function in narrative fiction, as they do in life, what metaphoric function would you suggest the dreams here are serving? 
speaker1: tj! what are you doing? please pass that forward.
speaker1: you can collect this after class.
speaker1: ok, so for our protagonist, are these dreams premonitions or desires or even nightmares perhaps?

speaker1: hey! 
speaker1: hey! leave him alone!
speaker1: hey! i said stop it!
speaker2: leave him alone!
speaker3: what the are you doing lady?

speaker1: what are you doing?! 
speaker2: i'm not finished, you
speaker1: are you alright?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker3: am i bleeding?
speaker1: i don't think so. am i?
speaker3: i don't know.

speaker1: i can't believe he called me lady. do i look like a lady to you? 
speaker2: i don't know, i guess?
speaker1: thanks. i mean do i look old? well anyway, at least i can say i've been in a fight.

speaker1: i think your ice cream's melting. 
speaker2: oh
speaker2: ah, it.
speaker2: hey, so i'm kinda like a hero now, aren't i?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: well actually, i basically just didn't want to have to go home and then spend the rest of the day feeling bad about the fact that i didn't help you and then hear about you on the news being beat to death in the parking lot. so you know, really i'm just - i did it for me. i'm just selfish.
speaker2: and i'm sorry, i'm sorry i'm like that.
speaker2: oh, gas station.

speaker1: whoaaa... sorry, sorry. 
speaker2: perfect landing.
speaker2: you like black or red?
speaker3: ah, i don't know, black?
speaker2: black? really? are you sure?
speaker3: ok, red?

speaker1: it's super sour isn't it? you don't have to eat it if you don't like it. 
speaker2: it's really sour.

speaker1: i know, that's the point. i used to hate this crazy sour stuff, i don't know what happened. i just recently acquired a taste for it. i don't even really know what's in it, but i pretty much eat it all the time. and i'm sure it's making me fat. i just don't want to end up like those fat old ladies you sometimes see, you know, the really fat ones? 
speaker1: i don't know why i'm telling you this. anyway, i was secretly hoping that you loved these - holding up the licorice, then taking a bite.
speaker1: so you could eat 'em for me. but now i can see you don't like em' and i'm kinda glad cuz it means more for me. i guess i'm sort of a hypocrite in a way.

speaker1: ok, thanks for the ride. i really appreciate it. 
speaker2: hey!
speaker2: you want your bike?

speaker1:  
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: hi, tj. what you doing around the back?

speaker1: i just, i dunno. i was just dumping my bike. 
speaker1: hey, dad!
speaker2: your dad's gone to the supermarket, honey. everything ok?
speaker1: ah, yeah, ok.

speaker1: where's the laundry room? 
speaker2: my dad'll be home soon.
speaker1: where's the laundry room?
speaker2: why?
speaker1: you've got two seconds to tell me where the laundry room is before i tear your head off and skull you.
speaker2: it's through there. but why? you can't - my dad's gonna be home soon.

speaker1: you can't smoke in here. 
speaker1: you can't smoke.
speaker1: what are you doing? you can't smoke in here.
speaker1: will you please put it out?
speaker2: can i put it out in your mouth?
speaker1: what?! wait.

speaker1: and he said, or his wife said, 'yes they'd like to come back.' so earlier that day i made a cherry cake and i used a - i didn't know it till afterwards, i used a new product - instead of crisco, i used fluffo. they never made it again that fluffo. 
speaker2: grandma, can i hear the rest of your story later? i'm kinda busy.
speaker1: oh, of course honey.
speaker3: tj, who's this?
speaker4: my name's hesher. call me hesher.

speaker1: what's he doing? 
speaker2: he's doing laundry.
speaker1: why is he smoking in the house?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: did you tell him he can't?
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: how come you only have four channels?

speaker1: hello there. 
speaker2: hello, old lady.

speaker1: can i help you with something? hesher shuts the drawer. he's holding a fork. 
speaker2: nope, i'm good.

speaker1: so, ah, what are you doing now? 
speaker2: huh?
speaker2: this your room?
speaker1: that's the garage.

speaker1: does your friend want to eat some dinner dear? 
speaker2: he's not hungry.
speaker1: are you sure?
speaker2: yeah, i'm sure.
speaker3: what's he doing in the garage?

speaker1: i don't know. i said he could practice his guitar in there. 
speaker2: that's great honey, it's nice having a bit of music in the house again. is he a new friend?
speaker1: yeah, sort of.
speaker2: you know your grandfather played the harmonica for many years.

speaker1: hesher, would you like a glass of orange juice. 
speaker2: ah, yeah. sure.
speaker1: morning, tj.
speaker3: hi, grandma.

speaker1: oh, i'm sorry, honey. we're out of milk. i can cook you up some eggs if you like, dear. 
speaker2: no, thanks. i don't have time.
speaker1: would you like to come for a walk with me today?
speaker2: i can't, grandma. i gotta go to school.
speaker1: no, i mean later. this afternoon.
speaker2: i don't know. can you ask me when i get home?
speaker1: ok, honey.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i need to talk to you.
speaker1: oh, yeah? what about?
speaker2: i want to get the car back.
speaker1: yeah, i figured that. you made it pretty clear the last time you were here, and i thought i made it pretty clear that i couldn't give it to you.
speaker2: what do i need to do to get it back?
speaker1: the car's not for sale.
speaker2: i want to get it back, though. how much do you want for it?
speaker1: i don't know. we're talking at least eighteen hundred dollars, not including taxes, registration, adm, or dealer's fees. on top of that, you'd need a driver's license. i'm guessing you don't have one of those. you'd need valid car insurance. i'm guessing you don't have that either. but even if you did have these things, i still couldn't sell it to you because the car's not street legal. there's a million reasons why i can't sell it to you.

speaker1: look kid, i appreciate your enthusiasm, i really do, but i don't know what to tell you. you can't have the car. end of story. 
speaker1: do you mind if i get back to it here?

speaker1: hi sir, how are you today? oh, hey. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: how's it goin'?
speaker2: i got you a replacement ice cream.
speaker1: oh my that's so sweet, thanks.

speaker1: i paid for it over there. 
speaker2: oh, ok.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker1: sure, ok. see ya.
speaker2: see ya.
speaker2: hi.

speaker1: - and his wife said, yes they'd like to come back to the house.' so earlier that day i made a cherry cake and i used a new product - i didn't know it till afterwards- i used fluffo. they never made it again that fluffo. it was an imitation brand. i served the cake and there was silence. and then - 
speaker1: you put the cake in your mouth and it stuck to the roof of your mouth. they could hardly swallow it.
speaker1: hi sweetheart.

speaker1: i can't grandma. i have school tomorrow. 
speaker2: ok, well you're always invited.

speaker1: so what? 
speaker1: so what school? go on a walk with your grandma.
speaker2: he's right tj, it'd be very good for you to get some fresh air.
speaker1: your grandma goes walking in the morning by herself? you can't get your outta bed like an hour earlier? she could get raped.
speaker1: i read about this all the time. grandmas get raped. you ever hear about that guy who killed like 13 old ladies.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: google it, dude. the granny killer, he killed like hella old ladies by strangling them with their dirty panties. not all of them necessarily got fucked, but they all got penetrated by like the dude's fingers and i don't know, other too.
speaker4: that's enough.

speaker1: i just think your grandma asks you to go on a walk, you should go with her so she doesn't get raped. 
speaker2: why would anyone me?
speaker1: i don't know, they do it, grandma.
speaker3: that's enough.

speaker1: hey, teej. what are you doing? come sit with us, we're in our spot. 
speaker2: what? uh, ok.
speaker2: i'll meet you there in a second.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: pissing.
speaker1: what are you doing at my school?
speaker2: i'm putting out a fire.

speaker1: you my car, you little prick. 
speaker1: eat the cake.

speaker1: you ready? 
speaker2: i don't wanna go.
speaker1: it'll be good for us, teej. c'mon. we'll be late.
speaker2: i really don't want to go.
speaker1: i don't think anyone ever 'wants to go' to these things. it's supposed to be good for us. that's the whole point.
speaker1: c'mon. give me a hand here.

speaker1: ok, so welcome everyone to the transformational grief group. my name is meryl. we should start off by going around the circle and introducing ourselves and briefly explaining why we are here. hi miss, would you please start us off? 
speaker2: we are the bolder family. i am coleen and this is my husband jack. our daughter cynthia was murdered last year. she was the victim of a violent attack that was unfair and sick.
speaker2: we are here because we need help. we lost our baby and we are broken.
speaker3: hi, my name is jack. as my wife said, we're here hoping for some answers and just some help with the pain.
speaker1: thank you, coleen and jack. welcome.
speaker1: sir.

speaker1: ah, ok. sure. my name is paul forney. this is my son, tj. we're here today because we lost my wife, tj's mother, a bit more than two months ago now. and ah, i don't know, we're still trying to come to terms with things and, you know, just find some guidance of some kind, i guess, and, ah, yeah, so... 
speaker2: ok, great. welcome, paul. tj? would you like to introduce yourself, say a few words to the group?
speaker3: not really.
speaker2: ok. that's ok. nicholas, would you like to introduce yourself to the group?

speaker1: hi, honey. how was your special group? 
speaker2: fine.

speaker1: you! 
speaker2: you.
speaker1: you. you let that stick my head in a toilet and you don't do anything about it? you stand there and watch him do it?
speaker1: you stay in my grandma's house? you're taking a bath in my grandma's bath?
speaker1: say something!
speaker2: listen to me.

speaker1: where are we going? 
speaker1: where are we going?
speaker2: touch my stereo again, i'll seriously hurt you. hesher turns the music back up. tj is confused.

speaker1: hey, seriously. what are you doing? 
speaker1: c'mon, man. let's just go.

speaker1: open the door! it's locked! 
speaker2: hey, get back here!

speaker1: get in. 
speaker2: you ditched me.
speaker1: get in the van, dude.

speaker1: what the fuck's wrong with you?! 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: what's wrong with you?
speaker2: what's the problem? that's the guy who put you in the toilet.
speaker1: yeah, but -
speaker2: something's coming.

speaker1: it's for you. 
speaker2: are you thomas forney?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker2: we'd like to ask you some questions.
speaker3: what about?
speaker2: we'd like you to come down to the station with us.
speaker3: what for?
speaker4: what's going on?

speaker1: cops. 
speaker2: ok, so we're gonna have to let you go now. we may very well be calling on you again very soon, but in the meantime, let this be a warning to you. regardless of what evidence we do or don't find, you've come to our attention today. our attention isn't good.
speaker3: but i didn't do anything.
speaker2: you hearing me here? these are very serious crimes we've been presented with. let's just say someone had been in that car, and they'd burned - to death. we'd be talking about manslaughter, possibly murder. have you thought about that? you'd be sitting here with detectives from homicide right now. these are felony offences we're talking about, son. serious jail-time offences.

speaker1: did you do it? 
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: not really?
speaker2: i didn't do it.
speaker1: what does `not really' mean?
speaker1: tell me what `not really' means.
speaker2: it means i didn't do it.
speaker1: no, it doesn't. why would you say 'not really'?
speaker2: i didn't.
speaker1: you did. i heard you.
speaker2: i said i didn't do it.
speaker1: yeah, before that. i asked if you did it. you said `not really'.
speaker2: i can't remember what i said.
speaker1: why would you do something like that?

speaker1: so what'd the pigs want? 
speaker2: what the do you think!?
speaker1: did they give you a cavity search?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: did any of the cops put their fingers in your butthole?
speaker2: just off, ok.
speaker1: what'd they do?
speaker2: they took my finger prints!
speaker1: so what?
speaker2: so what!? i can get into serious trouble.
speaker1: oh, is that right?

speaker1: yeah, that's right! they don't take this lightly. 
speaker2: oh, they don't?
speaker1: people could have been hurt! if someone was killed it would have been considered murder.
speaker2: really? murder?
speaker2: that's badass
speaker1: please just leave me alone.
speaker2: ok, but first show me your best impression of a dumpling.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you know, a dumpling, the chinese little thingies you eat -
speaker2: come on, like this -
speaker2: ok, your turn.
speaker1: no.

speaker1: do you think she is totally bald or do you think she's more of a landing strip kind of chick or more of a 70's jungle 
speaker2: what are doing here?
speaker1: you're stalking that chick, dude.
speaker2: no, i'm not.
speaker1: yeah, you are. i've been stalking you for half an hour. you gonna try to her?
speaker2: what? no.
speaker1: can't her from here, dude. gotta be way closer.
speaker2: shut up about it.
speaker1: you wanna poke her clam?
speaker2: shut up.

speaker1: you wanna poke her clam or what? 
speaker2: please stop saying that.
speaker1: you want to poke her clam, dude. nothing wrong with that. don't be ashamed about it. humans have been poking for hundreds of years. longer even.
speaker1: bro, there's nothing wrong with wanting a little pussy.
speaker1: where you going?
speaker2: home.
speaker1: i'll give you a ride.
speaker2: no thanks.
speaker1: ok, but if you come with me it'll take 5 minutes and if you ride it will take you about 15.

speaker1: fine, just don't talk to me. 
speaker2: i won't say

speaker1: look dude, i'm really sorry about the fire the other night - 
speaker1: that was totally out of control. foolish and irresponsible actually.
speaker1: i want you to have this -
speaker2: get that away from me.
speaker1: dude are you gay? i can't work you out.

speaker1: hey, what are you doing? 
speaker1: stop the car, i want to get out.
speaker2: shush.
speaker2: you get out of this van, i'll rip your off and her for you.

speaker1: you just messed up the back of my car you stupid you need to pay attention when you're driving a car - 
speaker2: i think i can help here.
speaker2: i saw the whole thing. the chick here was stopped and you reversed right into her.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i don't know what your problem is, dude. why would you just reverse into her? that's retarded.
speaker1: what are you talking about?

speaker1: are you out of your mind? 
speaker2: you better start making like you're gonna pay her for the damage.
speaker1: i didn't back into her. i don't know what you're talking about.
speaker2: you calling me a liar, dude!?

speaker1: no, i, i, i'm just saying i don't know what's going on here. 
speaker2: you're calling me a liar is what's going on here.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker1: look, i don't want any trouble, sir.
speaker2: fight me cocksucker!
speaker1: this is ridiculous -
speaker2: come back here and find out how ridiculous it is!
speaker2: ok. see you later.

speaker1: your girlfriend's in trouble. we're not going anywhere. 
speaker1: you know, tj?
speaker2: hey.

speaker1: sometimes, you know, a day is bad and then when you think it couldn't get any worse you suddenly discover whole new ways it can get worse. 
speaker1: no, thanks.

speaker1: this one time i had like four hella drunk chicks in the back of the van, and we were going for it and i had one hand on this one girl's and my other hand on this other chick's twat, but there was like still two other girls wanting to get off so like i had my foot rubbing on one girl's while i'm trying to eat the other girl out, and i was going crazy man. it was too much. i couldn't work out which chick was which and i'm making one girl but then i'm forgetting about the others and my tongue's hurting and my fingers are getting tired and like eventually i was just like 'fuck this. this is too much' and i just stepped back. i just stepped back. and before you know it these girls are all working on each other, you know. they're all each other and eating each other out, you know, and i jerk myself off and everyone's a winner, you know? 
speaker2: was that some kind of perverted metaphor for me? about how i should just step back and let things work themselves out?
speaker1: a what?

speaker1: what the was that? 
speaker2: i saw a mouse.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: are you ok?
speaker3: i have dirt in my mouth.

speaker1: who's that guy? 
speaker2: we're here. come on, let's go.
speaker1: we're where?
speaker2: my uncle's house.

speaker1: what was that back there? 
speaker2: what was what?
speaker1: that other house?
speaker2: wrong house.
speaker1: what the fuck!?
speaker2: what? you're dirty.
speaker1: yeah, and now i'm wet.
speaker2: you're dirty and wet. i'm coming in...
speaker2: now i'm dirty and wet too.

speaker1: cut it out. 
speaker2: r2! shut down all the fucken' trash compactors on the detention level!
speaker2: ...all the trash compactors... ...on the detention level!...
speaker2: oh, more trash coming in!
speaker2: oh
speaker1: so, how do you know this guy?
speaker3: i don't know, he's sort of moved into my grandma's house with us.

speaker1: what, like he's renting a room or something? 
speaker2: no, not really, i don't know, it's kinda a long story.
speaker1: do you realize that the equivalent to you flicking that ant would be like one of us getting hit in the face by a giant wrecking ball at 100 miles an hour and getting thrown into the next yard?
speaker2: sorry, i...
speaker1: do you think the other ants are gonna wonder where that ant's gone? do you think their gonna miss her? tj doesn't know how to answer.
speaker1: christ.
speaker3: jump in the fi-re.

speaker1: look at that. 
speaker1: i got a doctor's appointment.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: it burns when i urinate...
speaker3: did he just leave us? i think we should get out of here.

speaker1: my shoes are so squishy. 
speaker2: so, what's his name?
speaker1: hesher.

speaker1: hesher?... is that a name? 
speaker2: i don't know. i guess?
speaker1: does he have a last name?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: how old is he?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: do you know anything about him?
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: that was so lucky you guys were behind me when that guy got all mad about his car. i was freaking out. i don't really have any insurance right now. i just can't afford it. there's no way i could afford to fix that guy's car. how do people do this stuff? i mean, i have a job. it's kind of a joke though. i've been there for like a year and i'm still only doing like five hours a week. why aren't they giving me any more hours? do you think it's because they think i did you think i sucked when i served you at the checkout?
speaker2: no?
speaker1: i don't even get paid enough to really cover my rent. i'm gonna have to start selling pretty soon.

speaker1: here, i got two bucks. 
speaker2: the sad thing is i could actually use it.

speaker1: oh, no. please tell me that's not a ticket... 
speaker1: it.
speaker1: ah, it.
speaker1: what have i done to deserve this chain reaction of all the time? sometimes i wonder if i were to die right now, if anyone would care, or even notice.
speaker2: i would.

speaker1: that's nice of you to say, but i doubt it. 
speaker2: i would. if you died right now.
speaker2: i'd notice.
speaker2: mainly because i'd be sitting in a car with a dead lady.
speaker1: please don't call me lady.
speaker1: let's get out of here.
speaker1: you wanna steer or push?

speaker1: hi tj. 
speaker2: hey grandma.

speaker1: so did you her? 
speaker2: what?! no?!
speaker3: where were you today?
speaker2: what?
speaker3: counselling - 3:30, i'm there by myself.
speaker2: oh, sorry. i forgot.
speaker3: yeah, that's real nice. this thing is for you just as much as it is for me. i waited outside school for 45 minutes.
speaker2: yeah, well, i told you i don't want to go.
speaker3: maybe you should let me know before you don't show up next time.
speaker2: i did. i told you i didn't want to go.
speaker3: no you didn't.
speaker2: yes i did. you're just not listening.
speaker3: no you didn't. what you told me was that you didn't want to go. you didn't tell me that you were just not going to show up.

speaker1: what difference does it make? 
speaker2: for me a big difference. it means, i'm sitting on a beanbag in a room full of losers by myself.
speaker3: boys please, i'm not feeling well.
speaker2: can you pass me my pills? hesher slides dad's pill bottle over.
speaker4: did you finger her twat?
speaker1: shut the up.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: language. i don't wanna hear it.
speaker1: did you hear what he just said?
speaker2: i don't care. if i hear it again, you're going to your room.

speaker1: my room!? you gonna start punishing me now? 
speaker2: maybe i need to. if it's not the language, then it's your lack of responsibility... or i'm having to you down to the police station.
speaker1: dad. i'm really sorry you had your dragged off the couch. i'm sorry you had to put some underpants on for the first time in months.

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: that's enough.
speaker1: oh, what, soon as i'm right, that's enough?!
speaker2: tj! i don't want to hear one more word from you!
speaker1: fine. this.
speaker2: that make you feel better?

speaker1: did i miss something? 
speaker2: not really. paul came in and said some which tj got angry about and so tj smashed his plate and then paul smashed his plate too but i got a feeling he smashed his one cuz he couldn't actually think of anything to say cuz he kinda knew tj had a point and so now he feels bad about it and so he's gone somewhere. i don't know where.
speaker1: those boys have been through a lot.
speaker1: sometimes i wonder if they're ever gonna smile again
speaker1: i just wish there was something more i could do. a long beat passes.
speaker2: this is delicious.

speaker1: thank you, dear. 
speaker2: what's green and slimy and smells like bacon?
speaker1: i don't know, dear.
speaker2: what's green and slimy and smells like bacon?
speaker1: a worm? i don't know. i'm going to lie down. i'm not feeling well. i'm very nauseated.
speaker2: oh, ok.

speaker1: did you figure it out yet? 
speaker2: figure what out, dear?
speaker1: what's green and slimy and smells like bacon?
speaker2: no, not yet dear. can you do me a favor?
speaker1: sure, what?

speaker1: will you please hand me that red tin on the cabinet dear? 
speaker2: kermit the frog's finger.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: think about it... miss piggy.
speaker2: woah, what's that?
speaker1: oh, i'm feeling very nauseated. they're medical cigarettes that help me with the nausea. will you light a match for me, dear?
speaker2: hang on a second. can i see that?
speaker2: no
speaker2: i'll be right back.
speaker2: may i?

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: it's a bong. the water filters the smoke. it's probably the most healthy way to smoke weed.
speaker2: ok, so basically cover the hole here with your thumb then on the top and once the chamber fills with smoke, take your finger off the hole and in.
speaker2: then try and hold the smoke in for as long as possible, ok bro?
speaker1: umm, ok.
speaker2: ok, lift your finger.
speaker1: oh, wow... that was a big one.
speaker2: yeah, that was good. hit it again.

speaker1: i think i'm ok, dear. 
speaker1: honey, how old are you?
speaker2: who wants to know?
speaker1: i don't know. you seem a little older than tj.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: oh, stop it. aren't you a little old to be hanging around tj all the time?
speaker2: aren't you?
speaker1: no, i'm his grandmother.
speaker2: yeah, i guess you have a point... ok, well i used to have a mouse. no, wait... hang on a minute. i used to have a snake. and do you know what snakes eat?
speaker1: actually, there's no limit to the food items that you can even think of that a snake might eat. whatever is available in abundance would become the prey for the snakes. depending on their growth, their diet - hesher cuts her off.
speaker2: yeah, ok, ok well, actually they eat mice.

speaker1: they do eat mice. a lot of times snakes eat other snakes because they're the right shape - 
speaker2: yeah, ok, well anyway... i used to have a snake and i fed it mice. but one time i fed this little mouse to my snake and that mouse was tough. i dropped that mouse in the snake's tank and the snake wouldn't go near him, and any time he tried that mouse would just smack him with his little, you know...
speaker2: with his little mouse hand. so instead of eating the mouse the snake just curled up crying in the corner and the mouse ruled that cage. and this went on for weeks, the snake wouldn't go near him. that tiny mouse used to sit in a little miniature lawn chair scratching his and shelling peanuts and this snake was just too scared to go near it. and cuz the snake was scared of that mouse i had to feed him other mice, but every time i dropped another mouse in the tank, it'd hide behind the brave mouse. and so eventually the snake starved to death. i had a cage full of mice.
speaker1: so is tj the mouse?
speaker2: maybe he is.
speaker1: well then, what am i?
speaker2: you're an old lady.

speaker1: no, i'm a grandmother. 
speaker2: yes you are. and you know what grandmother? i'm gonna go on a walk with you in the morning.
speaker1: oh, that's nice. where are you going?
speaker2: i'm not going anywhere. i'm going with you. around the block, i guess.
speaker1: oh, ok, well have a nice time. i'll see you when you get back.
speaker2: no, i'm going with you.
speaker1: ohh, ok, caauuse iii...

speaker1: yeah, why don't you just have him send them over... sure... scott, can you hold on a minute? 
speaker1: what do you want?
speaker2: can i talk to you?
speaker1: i'm on the phone here. can you see that?
speaker2: i need to talk to you.
speaker1: i'm on the phone. wait outside. i'll be with you in a minute.
speaker3: the are you doing here?
speaker2: i came to talk to him.
speaker3: what about?
speaker2: it's none of your business.
speaker3: what do you wanna talk to him about?
speaker3: what do you want to talk about?

speaker1: just leave me alone. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i got the money.
speaker2: what money?
speaker1: the money for the car.
speaker2: what money for the car?
speaker1: you said if i got eighteen hundred dollars i could have the car back.
speaker2: are you kidding me?
speaker2: i said, 'even if you had eighteen hundred dollars, i still couldn't sell it to you.' even if you had five million dollars, i couldn't sell it to you. it's not even here any more anyway, so that's it.
speaker1: what? what do you mean-
speaker2: kid. leave me alone. i feel like i've had this conversation with you too many times already, but i can tell you we won't be having it again because the car's gone.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: it's all over. it's gone. it's not here.

speaker1: where's it gone?! 
speaker2: kid. it's over. good bye.
speaker1: where's it gone?
speaker3: and what makes you think i'm gonna tell you?

speaker1: what's going on? 
speaker2: teej. grandma, she's not.. she's not waking up.
speaker1: what!?
speaker2: she won't wake up.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker1: oh,

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: i don't know, she just, she just didn't wake up.
speaker3: i gotta get the out of here before i hurt someone.

speaker1: what are you doing? 
speaker2: i don't know. getting some fresh air, i guess.
speaker1: it's starting to rain.
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: hey, hey... wait. 
speaker1: hey! the are you doing?

speaker1: you. you you you. 
speaker2: stop hitting my van.
speaker1: you.
speaker1: and you're a whore. i hope you die. and when you do, no one's gonna notice.
speaker1: cuz you're a fat prostitute.
speaker2: dude, chill out for a second.
speaker1: get the away from me! i'll smash you in the face, i swear to back the up.
speaker1: i never want to see you or your ugly face again. that goes for both of you assholes.

speaker1: are you ok? 
speaker2: will you just leave me alone.

speaker1: i wanna talk to you. 
speaker2: get your hands away from me! i told you, i never want to see you again.
speaker1: i told you, leave my van out of this!
speaker2: let go of me! let go of me.
speaker3: what in name -
speaker1: don't touch m-

speaker1: where's my car? 
speaker2: what are you doing!?
speaker1: where's my car?
speaker2: are you crazy?!
speaker1: you make me ask one more time, your toe's coming off. i swear to
speaker2: it's gone to the wrecker's.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the wrecking yard.
speaker1: 
speaker2: why would i be lying?
speaker1: because you're a tell me where it is.
speaker2: it's gone to the wrecker's. i swear to
speaker2: i'm not lying. it went to the wrecking yard on sunrise near red bridge, yesterday afternoon. it's there now.

speaker1: i swear to man. it's at the wrecking yard on sunrise. 
speaker2: if you're lying, i'm gonna cut off every one of your fingers.
speaker3: you finished? want to tell me something else while you're visiting?

speaker1: hello. 
speaker2: what the
speaker3: what the is wrong with you?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: oh my my nose!
speaker3: what the is wrong with you?

speaker1: i just saved you. 
speaker2: you cut his nose off.
speaker1: only a bit, it's just a cut. dustin is crying now, clutching his face.
speaker2: you just cut his nose off!
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: hold this against your face.
speaker2: you gotta stop the bleeding.
speaker3: oh my
speaker1: what's your problem?
speaker2: i want you outta my life. i'm serious. i never want to see you again. how many times do i have say it?

speaker1: teej, c'mon sweetheart. we have to go. 
speaker2: what about the pizza?
speaker1: we'll eat it in the car.

speaker1: holy crap, what is this thing? 
speaker1: ah, slight problem.
speaker2: we'll take my car.
speaker1: sure thing.

speaker1: i think we should keep the new one and give them our old one. 
speaker2: that's a great idea. i'll be sure to let them know that our dirty old microwave is a gift from you.
speaker1: good. i'm not even sure they know who i am.
speaker2: honey, they're my friends. please.
speaker1: ok, i just don't understand why they get so many presents.
speaker2: a microwave and a bottle of scotch is hardly a lot of presents.
speaker1: and flowers.
speaker3: mom can you turn on the radio?
speaker2: sure honey. how about some oldies?
speaker3: oldies but goodies.

speaker1: ricky! 
speaker1: ricky! kill it, man.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: kill it! there's someone in the car!

speaker1: what the are you doing? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: what were you doing in there?
speaker2: i don't know. i'm sorry.
speaker1: this car's about to get crushed. if i didn't see you, you would be dead.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: what were you thinking, man?

speaker1: sorry. 
speaker2: where have you been?
speaker1: i'm sorry. i lost track of time.
speaker2: you lost track of time? it's ten in the morning!
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: i've been up all night. how is that fair to me?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: just go to your room.

speaker1: hesher's not here. 
speaker2: i came to see you.

speaker1: why? what do you want? 
speaker2: i wanted to tell you something.
speaker2: i didn't know if i should come here or not, but i couldn't stop thinking about it. i thought maybe if i came you'd still just be really angry at me and hate me, but then i thought if i didn't you'd think i didn't care and you'd hate me anyway, so i figured i might as well come, just in case, so here i am.
speaker1: yeah, well what do you want?
speaker2: i want to apologize. i feel bad about what happened. i didn't take your feelings into consideration -
speaker1: yeah, well, whatever. it doesn't really matter. i have to go.
speaker2: yes it does. it does to me. i like you, tj. we're friends.
speaker2: i understand if you don't want to be my friend. i didn't mean to hurt your feelings. sometimes i just... i don't know. i just wanted to come around and say all that, but maybe you still hate me and so it doesn't matter, but i just came round to say that, but i've said it now, so i should just go. so, ok, bye.
speaker1: i'm sorry i broke your lamp.

speaker1: nicole turns. 
speaker2: it's ok.
speaker3: and i'm sorry i called you a fat prostitute.
speaker2: it's ok.
speaker3: you're not fat.
speaker2: but i'm a prostitute?
speaker3: i dunno. maybe.

speaker1: ah, sure. 
speaker2: i know that we discussed your preferences for some aspects of today's service, including your choice of the cedar casket which the insurance company had covered. unfortunately we were out of those and instead we've chosen a mahogany casket. now there is an extra charge for the mahogany which i need to clear with you before we proceed. is that

speaker1: ah, i guess. 
speaker2: ok, great, thank you. if you could just sign here.
speaker2: just at the bottom there.
speaker2: just here, mr. forney, just under that... yes, that's great.
speaker2: now, just one other thing - we have another service following yours today, we hate to do this, but we're going to have to try to get through yours as quickly as possible.

speaker1: i don't want you to feel rushed, but we are really under the pump today and i just thought i should give you the heads up. now, i notice, just looking at your order of service... ah, look, let's play it by ear. we should be fine. 
speaker1: ok. excuse me.

speaker1: we are gathered here today to mourn the loss and commemorate the life of madeleine frances forney. ah, if you could please take your seats as quickly as possible that'd be great. thank you. madeleine was a beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. and now mrs agnes rosowski, a dear friend and neighbor, will say a few quick words. 
speaker2: i did not know madeleine long enough, but from the moment i moved into the neighborhood so many years ago, she treated me as though i was part of the family.

speaker1: we shared so many wonderful walks and enjoyed each other's company very much. i will miss our walks. i will miss our talks and most of all, i will miss madeleine. i will always remember what she told me, life is like walking in the rain, you can either hide and take shelter or you can just get wet. she was dear to me and she will always have a place in my heart. 
speaker1: i love you, madeleine.
speaker2: ok, thank you, agnes...
speaker1: tj, i think you should say something.
speaker1: go on, tj.
speaker3: sorry.

speaker1: ok, so at this point we should conclude today's service with a moment's silence, after which lemonade will be served in the... 
speaker2: actually, i'd like to add to tj's speech. i think i know where he was going with that.
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir...
speaker3: what are you doing here?
speaker2: hey, hey, hey...
speaker2: what are you doing? get your hands off that box.
speaker1: i'm sorry, sir we really need to- hesher turns and stands at the microphone.
speaker2: um...

speaker1: i'm sorry, sir- 
speaker2: you touch me again, i'll rip your head off and skull you.
speaker2: ah, ok. listen. i know you guys don't want me here and i don't want to be here, but i'm not here for me, i'm here for her- hesher gestures to grandma's coffin.
speaker2: - and i'm not here to say goodbye or have my farewell or whatever the you call it - this is not how i want to say goodbye to someone i like - in this shit-hole with these- hesher points to the funeral director.
speaker2: - assholes.
speaker3: ok, this is enough-
speaker2: yeah, well why don't you shut up for a second and listen cause i'm going to say what i want to say and then you'll never see me again. alright?!

speaker1: i'm here cause she's been trying to tell you guys something, but you don't want to listen... so i'm gonna break it down. 
speaker1: i pulled the gas tank from an old chevy and i wanted to blow it up, so i did. i didn't think about the millions of bits of metal that were gonna fly in every direction. i almost killed myself. i woke up in a hospital. i couldn't remember what happened and then this doctor at the end of my bed said 'son', and i said, 'don't call me son you cunt', then he said, 'you blew off your nut'. some shrapnel had penetrated my left scrotal sack and ripped the furry sucker right off. my left nut was gone, just like that.
speaker1: i went crazy. i assaulted a nurse, a doctor or two, i can't remember. i got arrested. i got sent to juvie. but all i could think about day and night was my missing nut. i couldn't eat or sleep, i just wanted my nut back. i had to get out of there and find it, so i busted out of juvie and went lookin' for it. i looked for days, but didn't find
speaker1: and then one night i was taking a and i was just staring down at my balls, looking at my flabby piece of sack where my left nut used to be and then i noticed my right nut, for like the first time. my right nut was just sitting there, totally happy, just hanging out.

speaker1: all this time i'd been driving myself crazy thinking about my missing nut and not thinking about the nut i still had all along. and i realized, i've still got a nut. i've still got one good nut. or the devil or whoever left me with one good nut. at least i didn't lose both my nuts. i've still got one good nut and it works, and my works too. 
speaker1: you lost your mom. you lost your wife. i lost a nut.
speaker1: this.
speaker1: leave her alone. we're not finished yet.
speaker2: unfortunately sir, we need to be.
speaker1: i told grandma i was going on a walk with her and i'm gonna do it!

speaker1: that's the plan. 
speaker2: get your hands off me, pig.
speaker1: that's the plan.

speaker1: come in. 
speaker2: morning, teej.
speaker1: hey. look at you.
speaker2: i know. it feels weird. i can feel air on my face.
speaker1: i hardly recognize you.

speaker1: i think hesher's gone. 
speaker2: gone where?
speaker1: i don't know. but i think you should come take a look at this.

