speaker1: -- and i could have waited to tell you, but i wanted to leave no room for misunderstanding. 
speaker2: well, you certainly didn't.

speaker1: no, i see how you could feel this way. of course i do. it's human. but what i don't get is why you'd want to announce it so quickly. i mean, we just met. feelings change. you don't even know me. 
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker1: oh, really?
speaker2: the minute i laid eyes on you. it's the saddest thing about getting older. you know people so quickly. i even knew you'd end up hating me.
speaker1: well, you're wrong. i don't.
speaker2: give it time.
speaker3: -- and for weeks i sat by her bed and cried. i told her i loved her and i begged her not to leave me. all i could think about was what i'd lose if she died. and then one night... she was in really bad pain... i stopped thinking about myself for a second and i thought about her. i stopped crying. i said goodbye. and in less than an hour ella was gone.
speaker1: it's so sad.
speaker3: i really think it's possible to hold a person back... cry them back... from dying. that's what i did to ella and i'll never do it to anyone else again. i hope no one ever does it to me.
speaker1: so what do you know about her?
speaker2: that she's just a kid.
speaker4: i met ella at city college in 1938...

speaker1:  
speaker1: dolly! the bulb burned out!

speaker1: oh, wills, please, not again. it's our third date and we're already in a rut. 
speaker2: but i thought you loved it.
speaker1: oh, i do -- except for the fact that there isn't a single thing on the menu i can eat.
speaker2: sure, there is; there's just very little you're willing to digest.
speaker1: fine then. we'll go, i'll get big, fat, and horrible, and it'll serve you right.
speaker2: no, it won't. because it takes at least a few weeks to get fat and by then you won't even be speaking to me.
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker2: because we have no future. all i can offer you is this... what we have right now... nothing more meaningful... until it ends.
speaker2: i could have waited to tell you, but i wanted to leave no room for misunderstanding.

speaker1: good evening, mr. keane. will you be dining with us tonight? 
speaker2: we certainly will. table seven, if it's available.
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker2: how are you, melissa?
speaker3: fine, mr. keane.
speaker2: good evening, celia. and how --
speaker4: just dandy, sir, thanks!
speaker1: table seven.
speaker4: this way, please.
speaker2: i'll be right with you. eriko nods and follows celia.
speaker2: how's it going?
speaker5: chaos.
speaker2: the house specialty.
speaker5: easy for you to say, ya prick. waltzin' in here like you own the joint.
speaker5: so who's the new potential ex-wife? i thought you were still wastin' time with tanya-von-what's-her-name.
speaker2: we wisely agreed to cut our losses.
speaker4: look, i have no right to say this, okay? and you can fire me if you want, but in the six weeks we've been open you've brought in six different women -- tonight makes seven -- and it's really starting to get to me.
speaker2: in what way?
speaker4: i have to greet them! it's like working at a dog shelter! i'm afraid to learn their names or even smile at them because i know any minute they could be put down!
speaker2: i assure you it's an absolutely painless procedure.
speaker4: it is?
speaker2: sure. especially for me.
speaker2: actually, i appreciate your concern, celia. the truth is i'm a little worried myself.
speaker4: seriously?
speaker2: seriously. i've been trying to do better. but... you know how it is... old habits die hard.
speaker4: so i'm not fired?
speaker2: nope. in fact, john's been looking for an assistant. tell him you've just been promoted.

speaker1: you guys! let me think! okay. okay. 
speaker2: watch carefully, everyone -- they ought to begin emerging any moment now.
speaker1: very funny! actually, any moment now you're gonna turn straight and fall at my feet.
speaker2: oh, darling, you know i would if i could.
speaker3: the only time he falls at your feet now is when he wants to borrow your prada loafers. more laughter.
speaker4: is that wills keane?
speaker5: it sure as is and he hasn't changed a bit!
speaker6: i'm sorry, do i --
speaker5: you little fool, it's dolores talbot. dolly!
speaker6: my it is.
speaker7: yeah, i know, time's kicked my but good. come on, romeo, let's bury the hatchet. give me a hug. careful of the cocktail.
speaker7: so what the hell're you doin' around here? last i heard you were out in earthquake country blowin' the family fortune.
speaker6: actually, i doubled it.
speaker7: good for you!
speaker3: -- and you know how bouncer's get. he's like, "that's the worst fake i.d. i've ever seen." and i'm like, "yeah? well, you have the worst dread- extensions!" and then just when --
speaker2: are you feeling all right? you look positively green.
speaker1: he's here. and he's staring at me again.
speaker3: no way!
speaker1: don't! wait a few seconds, then go to the bathroom.
speaker2: how will i know him?
speaker1: he's beautiful. and much older.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: okay, look.
speaker3: he's as old as my dad! charlotte laughs.
speaker7: sure, l.a.'s okay if you're a cactus or a lizard, but if you're a new englander, your soul dries up and blows away like a leaf.
speaker6: it only took me twenty years to come to my senses.
speaker7: so what're you doin' now? you owned some restaurants out there, didn't you?
speaker3: and so, after all that, we pay our cover, we get in, and it's totally heinous! nothing but losers and --
speaker1: oh,
speaker3: what? dolores walks up, hauling wills by the arm --
speaker7: kids! i want you to meet an old chum of mine, the owner of this fine establishment -- wills keane!
speaker7: and that over there's the birthday girl -- my granddaughter, charlotte.
speaker6: not katie and jay's daughter?
speaker7: you bet. she got her height from her dad. but her talent's all katie's.
speaker7: made it herself from scratch. that one, too. honey, show 'im.
speaker6: impressive.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker6: i think we can do better than that.
speaker6: happy birthday, charlotte.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker3: twenty years old and never been...
speaker1: shut up!
speaker6: i'll let you get back to your celebration. a pleasure to see you again.
speaker7: same here.
speaker2: leaving so soon?
speaker2: be still my beating heart. or is that your heart?
speaker3: you're not really into him, are you?
speaker1: hey, dolly, how do you know him?
speaker7: from newport. old friend of your mom's.

speaker1: for what? 
speaker2: oh my i'm so sorry! wait. who is this?
speaker1: wills keane.
speaker1: who did you think it was?
speaker2: my friend simon, actually. he always calls me the morning after to sort of... you know... sum everything up.
speaker1: and how would you sum it up, charlotte? turning twenty.
speaker2: kinda cool, kinda creepy. anyway, you wanna speak to my grandmother?
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker1: i called because i'm going to be attending a benefit... a black-and- white ball.... and i'd like you to design a hat... for my date.
speaker2: really? wow. sounds fun. okay.
speaker1: it's a gift. i don't have her measurements, but she's about your size. what're you, a six?
speaker2: uh-huh.
speaker1: good -- then let's assume your hat size is also the same.
speaker2: but that doesn't necessarily --
speaker1: it's a risk we'll just have to take.
speaker1: her dress is a sheath... sleeveless, black. the hat must, of course, be black or white or both.
speaker2: any particular style?
speaker1: no, just plenty of it. how long will it take?
speaker2: a week or two.
speaker1: you have till thursday. i'll need it here by seven o'clock. i'm at the pembroke on central park west and 76th.
speaker2: oh. wow. okay.
speaker1: what's your fee?
speaker2: i don't really have one. i usually just make them for friends.
speaker1: how's five hundred dollars?
speaker2: really? wow.
speaker1: charlotte?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: you say "wow" a lot.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: it has to stop. you're a woman now.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: bye.
speaker2: bye.
speaker3: see, now you got me worried.
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker3: you slept alone last night. you must be sick or somethin'. you want me to call a doctor?
speaker1: thank you, no, i'm fine.

speaker1: save it, pal! don't even bother! i may not have gone to a fancy school like bendover -- 
speaker2: that would be andover.
speaker3: sure, if his folks could have afforded it.
speaker1: -- but when wills keane comps three bottles of dom to a twenty-year-old girl, then tells me he did it 'cause he likes the kid's grandma, i smell a rat!
speaker3: oh, is that what that is? i figured there was a dirty diaper somewhere.
speaker2: okay, i admit it, she interests me.
speaker1: he's gonna do it! i don't believe it! he moved us back here for nothing!
speaker3: so much for that turned leaf.
speaker2: come on, you're overreacting.
speaker1: is that what you think? buddy, since we hit town, i have done nothin' but cut you slack! every week a new woman on your arm and i didn't say a word. why? 'cause i figured at least they're in the right demographic. maybe by accident you'll trip over something substantial. but this little girl? best she could be is miss right's daughter!
speaker2: i know. it's just that there's something about her. she's special... and i just thought --
speaker3: "she's young. she's hot. i'm on the verge of menopause. why not go for it?" wills and sarah meet eyes.
speaker2: there wouldn't be much point in lying to you, would there?
speaker4: mommy, daddy, look, look!
speaker1: hey, they're bigger than you are!

speaker1: why don't you mark what isn't important? that way you'll save ink. 
speaker2: why don't you sew your mouth to my butt? that way you'll stop annoying me.
speaker3: now, now, if you two kids can't play nice -- shannon rolls over onto her back --
speaker2: i hate school.
speaker1: oh, come on, just last week, you said you were on a roll. you loved it!
speaker2: well, now i'm on the rag and i hate it.
speaker1: i think you're incredibly lucky. i'd love to be going to college.
speaker2: am i the most spoiled brat in the world or what?
speaker1: spoiled brats don't even ask questions like that. what do you think?
speaker2: that you're the most beautiful person in the entire world.

speaker1: mikey! how ya doin'? 
speaker2: a bit early, aren't you?
speaker1: hey, in this soup, better safe than sorry, you know what i mean?

speaker1: he's goin' to a fancy party tonight. 
speaker2: oh, really?
speaker1: watch your step, miss.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker3: he's waitin' for you, miss fieldin'.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: i couldn't get a cab, so i took the subway... only it was an express and it didn't stop at --
speaker1: you realize, don't you, that you're a full eighteen minutes late?
speaker2: i know... i'm so sorry... i --
speaker1: charlotte, relax. what's the point of being a beautiful young woman if it isn't to keep your admirers waiting? in fact, you disappoint me: i was looking forward to at least another half hour of suspense.
speaker2: i could leave and come back.
speaker1: nope, too late. anyway, i want to see the hat.
speaker1: try it on.
speaker2: i can't. i'm soaked.
speaker1: it's all right.
speaker1: it's perfect. it's like a tiny sculpture.
speaker2: i wanted it to be a tiny poem.
speaker1: if only i had some use for it. my date canceled a few hours ago.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i don't know. she was vague. would you... like to come in her place?
speaker2: like this?
speaker1: the outfit i bought her is hanging in the guest room closet.
speaker2: it's okay? are you sure?
speaker1: of course.

speaker1: nonsense. you're very good. where did you learn? 
speaker2: from ella. the woman whose memorial you crashed.
speaker1: so you did see me there.
speaker2: uh-huh. and the next time i saw you, you were on the cover of new york magazine. and i had to pick a place for my birthday. so...
speaker3: of course he moved back. i mean, he'd already seduced every a- and b- list actress in town. what was left for him?
speaker4: the c-list?
speaker5: exactly.
speaker3: but if what i hear is true and he's shopping for a bride, i can tell you one thing -- he's barking up the wrong tree there.
speaker4: why do you say that?

speaker1: i met ella in the fourth grade. she was my teacher at the little red school house. we stayed friends after she retired. she taught me how to cook and sew... speak italian... basically enjoy life, have fun -- that's what she was best at... even when she knew she was dying. the most important thing she did was introduce me to poetry. she believed it was the highest form of art and that everything we say and do should aspire to it. 
speaker2: it sounds as though, in a way, she took your mom's place...
speaker1: my mom and my dad's. after they died, dolly was so devastated she pretty much gave up on everything. it was like if something that tragic could happen, there was no way she was ever gonna care about anyone else ever again. including herself. she wasn't a horrible parent... she didn't abuse me or anything... she just ignored me. she was more like a weird landlady than a grandmother.
speaker2: i'm sure she did the best she could.
speaker1: for a long time i kinda thought that, too, and i made excuses for her, but now i don't. i was seven years old and i needed her and she wasn't there.
speaker2: i remember when i heard the news about your parents. you know how after a crash they print a long list of names in the newspaper? well, i grew up outside boston, so i naturally started to scan the list. but casually, not expecting to --
speaker1: oh, no, come on! i love this stuff! don't you? didn't you grow up on it?
speaker2: how old do you think i am?
speaker1: ancient!
speaker2: i have no idea what to do!
speaker1: have fun!
speaker3: i had to come. i work at the met. what's your excuse?
speaker1: sort of a date.
speaker3: with wills keane, right?
speaker1: you know him?
speaker3: just by reputation.
speaker1: a major womanizer, right?
speaker3: that's what they say. i'm lisa.
speaker1: charlotte fielding.
speaker3: anyway, i should keep mingling. but it was nice to meet you.
speaker1: same here.
speaker2: who was that?
speaker1: lisa something.
speaker2: here's to --
speaker1: us.

speaker1: you talk like you're a hundred and sixteen! 
speaker2: that's usually how i feel. but not tonight. tonight i feel sixteen... just sixteen... and three-quarters.
speaker2: champagne?
speaker1: he asked nonchalantly.
speaker2: you see, charlotte, the way you know you're getting older is that you start to notice patterns. people start falling into types. pretty soon you know a person before you've even been introduced. and if it's a woman, before the romance even starts, a whisper in your head tells you exactly what it is and how long it's going to last. and the saddest, the most tedious, part of all is that that little voice is almost always right. now, what i like about you -- and i think that's actually what inspired this little lecture -- is that i find you completely unprecedented... and, therefore, wholly unpredictable.
speaker1: it must be a relief.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: to finally deliver that speech to a woman and actually have it apply to her.
speaker2: now wait a minute.
speaker1: no, because coincidentally i am all those things you just said. and more.
speaker1: i'm a "unique". at least that's what my yoga teacher says. he says there are very few uniques in the world and i'm one of them.
speaker2: well, he's a wise man.
speaker1: you, on the other hand, are what he'd call a "typical."
speaker2: oh, really?
speaker1: uh-huh. and i can prove it. want me to? come here.
speaker1: closer.
speaker1: no, come on, really close.
speaker1: perfect. now watch very carefully.
speaker1: see? you're a typical. and for what you just did, most girls my age would slap your face. or ask to be put in a cab. lucky for you, i'm a unique.

speaker1: didn't anyone ever teach you that it's bad manners to stare at a girl when she's eating like a pig? 
speaker2: listen --
speaker1: uh-oh. here it comes.
speaker2: that's right, because, look, i could put this off, but i genuinely like you. so i want to be clear... right now... from the start, so there's no chance for misunderstanding later.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: what i want to say you is.... well... that all i can offer you is this... what we have right now... nothing more substantial... just this... until it ends.
speaker2: the truth is, we have no future together.
speaker1: i know. i'm dying.
speaker2: what... what do you mean?
speaker1: what i said. nobody thought i'd even last this long.
speaker1: i could have put off telling you, but i genuinely like you, so i wanted to be clear... you know, right from the start.
speaker1: thanks, olivia!

speaker1: mr. keane? dr. sibley. 
speaker2: thank you so much for taking the time.
speaker1: it's my job, sir. please, sit down.
speaker1: now, mr. keane, on the phone you referred to charlotte's condition as cancer. that isn't strictly accurate. neuroblastoma is a soft tissue malignancy, but it isn't cancer -- although it sometimes can be just as aggressive. it's most common in children. in young adults, the condition is extremely rare. in charlotte's case, the tumor is located in her chest. it's growing rapidly and has proved resistant to both irradiation and chemotherapy. and because of its proximity to her aorta, surgery is out of the question.
speaker2: so then what treatment is she getting?
speaker1: at present? nothing.
speaker1: eventually she'll be treated for pain. in the end, surgery could become an option, but her chances of survival would be slim. right now charlotte's against it. she's signed a directive forbidding any sort of heroic intervention.
speaker1: there's more here if you're interested, but it won't mean much to you.
speaker2: how long?
speaker1: optimistically? a year.

speaker1: a real charmer, isn't he? 
speaker1: how are you on cambodian money units?
speaker1: are you okay, old man? you look kinda woozy. is there a doctor in the house?

speaker1: hey. 
speaker1: look on the bright side: if i weren't sick, there's no way we could hang out together. i'm serious. you'd be scared of hurting me and i'd be scared you were just using me for my perfect young body.
speaker1: and then our friends would say we were just into each other for weird psychological reasons. you know, because i'm looking for a daddy substitute and you're looking for someone you can feel superior to so you won't have to confront how scared you are of real intimacy -- and, of course, they'd be right and eventually we'd break up. but since i'm so sick it doesn't really matter what deep-seated weirdness has brought us together because there's no way we can possibly screw each other over... or up... because that takes time. and i don't have much left.
speaker1: so considering everything, don't you think we should just sort of chill out, forget i'm sick, and enjoy what we have... right now... no strings... just this... until it ends? 'cause that's really all i have to offer.
speaker1: think about it, okay? but not too hard.
speaker1: last night was so incredibly hot. by the way -- it was my first time. and i picked you for the job. i hope you're flattered.
speaker2: okay, pal, where to? wills hasn't moved a muscle.

speaker1: i don't believe it! i don't believe it! 
speaker2: i think what miss harris is trying to say, is that you've strained her credulity.
speaker3: really? better put some ice on that.
speaker1: girlfriend, you are so incredibly cool!
speaker2: so i've been told.
speaker1: okay, now tell us everything! don't leave anything out!
speaker4: okay, then what happened?

speaker1: not much. i took her home and she pointed out an irony -- that fate was now offering us the very same thing that just this morning i'd told her was all i could offer her: a relationship with no future. 
speaker2: a kid figured that out?
speaker1: she's not a kid! that's what i've been trying to tell you. nothing's lost on her. i'm the kid. she... i don't know what the she is... but i do know what she was.
speaker1: a virgin.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i had no idea. that's the only reason she had her party here, so she could lure me into doing the honors.
speaker2: she used you, pal.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: the hangman got hanged. how's it feel?
speaker1: embarrassing.
speaker2: so what now?
speaker1: i end it.
speaker2: how come?
speaker1: what, you're endorsing this now?
speaker2: i don't know, when you talk about her, you're not such an arrogant son of a you get all whiny and stupid. i like that.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: and since i don't see you gettin' serious with any of your other victims, i figure why not spend a little time together?
speaker1: because she's dying.
speaker2: i got bad news for you, brother, so are you.

speaker1: she'll be right down. she's upstairs, gildin' the lily. 
speaker1: excuse the mess. my maid died fourteen years ago and it's been simply impossible to replace her. she did windows and spoke english.
speaker2: for you.
speaker1: well, aren't they loverly.
speaker1: care for a cocktail?
speaker2: no, thanks.

speaker1: it really is uncanny. i tell you, in that dress you're the spitting image of michel simon. 
speaker2: who's she?
speaker1: a french character actor, long dead, who was not only hideous and fat, but quite male.
speaker2: so that would be a "no." simon nods. charlotte takes off the dress.

speaker1: what can i say? time's a thief. one day you're rich as an arab, the next you're lucky if you can afford a can of pistachio nuts. 
speaker1: how about that, huh? that was the summer you two --
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: who'd have guessed what time had in store for her, huh? look at that smile.
speaker1: then again, time loves some people. like you, for instance. oh, time's just wild about you.
speaker1: just as handsome and charming as ever. and still up to the same old tricks.
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: first time you came to pick up katie, you brought me flowers. just like those. flower the mother; then deflower the daughter. but katie was too smart for you...
speaker2: dolly, look --
speaker3: what? what's wrong?
speaker1: you look like your mom is all.

speaker1: what do you mean, you knew? 
speaker2: i did! i just didn't think it would take so long!
speaker1: two days is long?
speaker2: it is when you're sitting by the phone. you wanna know how i knew?
speaker1: you're psychic?
speaker2: i am, but no -- it's because of my birthday wish.
speaker1: but we hadn't even been introduced yet.
speaker2: i know, but i wished that whatever happened... you know, with my illness... i'd go out with a bang. nothing heavy. no violins. no melodrama. just fun. a total adventure!

speaker1: "lord, i do fear thou'st made the world too beautiful this year! my soul is all but out of me, -- let fall no burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call!" 
speaker2: we could go to a museum.
speaker1: no, that would be a thing! i don't want to do any thing today. i want to do no thing all day.
speaker2: nothing at all?
speaker1: uh-huh. no thing at all.
speaker2: so a movie is out.
speaker1: way out!
speaker2: ice cream at the plaza? high tea at the palace?
speaker1: both out.
speaker2: what about shopping?
speaker1: possible.
speaker2: it's not a thing?
speaker1: only when i have money.

speaker1: but all i gave you was champagne. that's not a proper birthday present. 
speaker2: i agree, and i promise i'll let you give me something else, but not today.
speaker1: when?
speaker2: soon. but i'm warning you, it's not going to be anything material.
speaker1: why not? oh, i see... because you're sick. because --
speaker2: that's right, but we're not gonna talk about that.
speaker1: how come?
speaker2: because it's my rule.
speaker1: any particular reason?
speaker2: yeah, because everybody always wants to talk about miracles, or about some genius quack-doctor, or their friend's friend who went into remission eating nothing but sunflower seeds. it's boring and pointless.
speaker1: are you sure? i mean, there are specialists who --
speaker2: don't start, okay? now what i would enjoy is taking you shopping. for clothes. i'm serious. it's quality not quantity, you know.

speaker1: at work you should look perfect, but in everyday life you need to delight in disorder more. don't you know? "a sweet disorder in the dress kindles in clothes a wantonness." 
speaker2: i think that goes without saying.
speaker1: it was true when that poem was written three hundred years ago and it's true today. wouldn't it be fun to look wanton occasionally?
speaker2: it's been a lifelong dream of mine. but will a scarf do it?
speaker1: totally. accessories rule. but we have to be careful. i don't want you looking too young. nothing's worse than an old guy trying to look young.
speaker2: good advice. i'll remember that for when i get old.
speaker1: you know what i meant.
speaker2: that i'm old.
speaker1: uh-huh.

speaker1: i don't know why, but for some odd reason, i feel absolutely compelled to tell you the truth about this... even at the risk of -- 
speaker2: hey, you're giving me the creeps. just spit it out.
speaker1: i never had a date for the benefit. my plan from the beginning was for you to come with me.
speaker2: so i made the hat for myself? and you bought that dress for me? and you did all this just so you could sleep with me? why? i mean, why me?
speaker1: the eulogy you gave at ella's service was so... impressive. you spoke about her death... about loss... in a way that i could never have done. you understood life emotionally in a way that i didn't. whatever that understanding was, i wanted to get close to it.
speaker2: and seemed like the best way to do it.
speaker1: and the most enjoyable, yeah.
speaker2: well, first of all, let me say, you have great taste because that little dolce and gabbana was to die for.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: and, second, don't ever lie to me again.
speaker1: all right.
speaker2: seriously. there isn't a lie in the whole world i'd rather hear than the truth.

speaker1: i thought i told you to wait right there! 
speaker2: i got restless.
speaker1: well, i hope you didn't talk to anybody!
speaker2: not a soul.

speaker1: you know what would scare me right now? 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: this.
speaker1: have i told you my latest motto?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: if it's scary, do it.
speaker2: i'm not sure i like that motto.
speaker1: i'm not sure that matters.
speaker1: oh my
speaker2: what?
speaker1: you're scared, too.
speaker1: your turn.
speaker1: what's the matter, old man? can't afford a gym?
speaker2: that's it!

speaker1: "counting the beats, counting the slow heart beats, the bleeding to death of time in slow heart beats, wakeful they lie." wills, half-asleep, murmurs deeply -- 
speaker2: so many words in that wonderful head of yours...
speaker1: if i could give you anything in the whole world, that's what it would be.
speaker2: words?
speaker1: poetry.

speaker1: are you familiar with the phrase, "you can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar?" 
speaker2: are you familiar with the phrase, "mind your own business?"
speaker1: sure, it's from poor richard's almanac. but the last time i checked --
speaker2: no, your business is to smile, make friends, and get rich! my business is the business.
speaker2: what're you doin' here, anyway? you got a girl. go home. carve a pumpkin.
speaker1: we can't spend every waking moment together.
speaker2: why not? no, seriously. why not?
speaker3: special delivery!
speaker1: no trouble?
speaker3: none.
speaker2: every year. you got no imagination.
speaker1: it's a classic. a little spirit gum and voila!
speaker1: -- young women are rendered helpless.
speaker3: it's true. i see a guy with horns growing out of his head and my knees go weak.
speaker1: of course -- it's biological.
speaker2: what's goin' on?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: at home.
speaker1: nothing. honestly. we're having a lot of fun. we're very happy.
speaker4: don't come in! don't!

speaker1: i'm not even tempted! 
speaker2: i'll be right out!
speaker3: you like hot cider?
speaker1: sure, thanks.
speaker1: mmmm.
speaker3: charlotte made it. i just poured it in the cup.
speaker4: ta-da!
speaker1: incredible.
speaker4: don't i look just like her?
speaker1: absolutely incredible.
speaker4: you have no idea who i am.
speaker1: give me a hint.
speaker4: "hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul."
speaker1: was that the hint?
speaker4: you dummy! emily dickinson! only the greatest american female poet ever!
speaker4: uncultured swine.
speaker1: the truth is out. i've lost you forever.
speaker4: wanna bet?
speaker4: when do i get to see your costume?

speaker1: o, ricky, chill out! you're gonna get snot in the water! 
speaker1: that's it -- outta the pool!
speaker2: where're the girls? i thought you were tucking them in!
speaker1: we got a volunteer!
speaker3: guess who?
speaker4: wonder woman?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: batgirl?
speaker3: i'll give you a hint. you dumped me.
speaker4: princess di?
speaker4: wendy?
speaker4: yup, i'd know that throttle anywhere!

speaker1: just one more. 
speaker2: please?
speaker3: all right, but this is the last last one!
speaker3: "because i could not stop for death, he kindly stopped for me; the carriage held but just ourselves and immortality. we slowly drove, he knew no haste, and i had put away my labor, and my leisure too, for his civility."
speaker3: "we passed the school where children played at wrestling in a ring; we passed the fields of grazing grain, we passed the setting sun." sarah eases the door shut and steps away.

speaker1: sweet dreams? 
speaker2: i had no idea i was so tired.
speaker3: they're down?
speaker2: and out. where's lucifer?
speaker4: last time i saw him, he was in the kitchen going pretty heavily with holly golightly.
speaker1: hey, no gossip! holly's a valued customer.
speaker2: lemme at 'er!
speaker4: hath no fury like a recluse scorned.

speaker1: hey, shouldn't one of your minions be doing that? 
speaker2: you know, in my day, you bobbed for the apple, and, sure, maybe there was a nickel inside it and that was sweet -- but you ate the apple! these little animals grab the coin and they're out the door!
speaker1: -- off to buy crack!
speaker2: exactly my point.
speaker1: seen beelzebub around?
speaker2: the prince of darkness?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: yeah, he went upstairs.

speaker1:  
speaker1: you lost your horns.
speaker2: hey, looking for me?
speaker1: uh-huh.
speaker2: we were checking out the roof. john's got quite a set-up.
speaker2: wendy, this is charlotte fielding. charlotte -- my friend wendy lister.
speaker3: actually, i saw you at that memorial service in connecticut. your eulogy was beautiful.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: betsy ross, right?
speaker1: you guessed it.
speaker2: is the party over?

speaker1: i have a strange feeling that you're upset with me. 
speaker2: no, i was just wondering if you had with that woman.
speaker1: ever?
speaker2: no, the answer to that's pretty obvious. i meant tonight. on the roof.
speaker1: you're not serious.
speaker1: of course not. why would i want to do something like that?
speaker2: that's what i was wondering. i thought, "we're so happy he'd have no reason to do it. and if he did do it, he'd at least look guilty, wouldn't he? but he doesn't. he looks more relaxed than before the party started."
speaker1: well, there you have it.
speaker2: but then i thought, "he's a womanizer -- that's what they say." funny word, huh? sounds like some sorta machine. "and how do you get to be a womanizer? obviously by sleeping with lots of different women for no good reason and being really good at lying about it."
speaker1: sure, except that --
speaker2: let me finish.
speaker2: anyway, there's something about being sick right here --
speaker2: -- that has made me acutely aware of my heart. nothing corny -- i mean, literally... i feel every beat. i know how sensitive it is. it reacts to everything. she turns in her seat and lifts an open palm.
speaker2: if you're lying to me, i'll know it. did you have with wendy on the roof?
speaker2: my oh my
speaker1: look, i never pretended to be anything other than --
speaker2: you hate yourself so much!

speaker1: this was all a mistake. right from the start. all of it. i'm a grown man and you're a child. anyway, you have better things to do with your last -- with your time than spend it with me. 
speaker2: you know, maybe you're right. maybe this is the best time to end it. because i was actually starting to love you, wills, and that's the last thing i ever wanted.

speaker1: well, if it ain't the belle of amherst. 
speaker1: seen that face before.
speaker2: you have?
speaker1: and for the same reason.
speaker2: but you said wills and my mom were just friends.
speaker1: sure, but she was nuts about him. the only reason she didn't sleep with him is 'cause she was sentimental. and smart. she wanted a ring first.
speaker2: why didn't he give her one?
speaker1: 'cause he knocked up little millie tyler instead. in newport. at bailey's beach. during the labor day clam bake.
speaker1: millie was your mom's best friend from nightingale. you had to hand it to him. he sure knew how to make a point.
speaker2: why did he do that?
speaker1: aw, who the knows? 'cause the moon was full. 'cause life's short. 'cause he's wills keane. i'll tell you a little secret -- after that, your mom hated his guts, but your dad never made her smile like he did. 'course your dad never made her cry like that either.
speaker2: why didn't you tell me any of this before?
speaker1: oh, i dunno...
speaker2: you never talk to me! you never try to help me!
speaker1: christ, look at me. i'm gonna tell you what to do?
speaker2: yes! you're my family. you're supposed to take care of me.
speaker1: aw, you wouldn't listen. that's the thing about people -- they just do what they want from the day they're born till the day they die.
speaker2: no, that's you, dolly! people who have given up don't listen to other people! people who want to die close off! that's not me! i wanted your help! i wanted to learn!
speaker2: anything... anything you would ever have told me, i would have listened to! i promise.
speaker1: aw, come on, honey. i can throw a party and i can mix a gimlet. after that, what the do i know? she rises, gives charlotte a nervous, awkward pat on the shoulder, then crosses over to the bar.

speaker1: oh, wills, it's beautiful! 
speaker2: thank you. it was designed by a team from --
speaker1: so functional! is that stainless steel?
speaker2: actually, no, it's velvet.
speaker1: oh, my it is!
speaker2: how are you?
speaker3: how are you, sir?
speaker1: well, if the food's even half as good as the moldings i'm in for a very special treat.
speaker4: uhhh, good evening, mr. keane. will you be dining with us?
speaker2: yes, table seven, if it's available.
speaker4: certainly, sir.
speaker2: hello, celia.
speaker5: how are you this evening, sir?
speaker2: i've been worse.
speaker5: are you sure?
speaker4: table seven.
speaker6: this way, please.
speaker7: where the you been?
speaker2: splendid, how are you?
speaker7: where's charlotte?
speaker2: deliveries on time?
speaker7: who's the broad? she looks like a holiday-inn from ohio.
speaker2: keep up the good work!

speaker1: okay, i'm chugging scotch, gagging on smoke, and losing my hearing! now why is this so good for me again?! 
speaker2: that's just it! the great spiritual benefit in leaving one's room is that it reminds one of how odious it is to leave one's room!

speaker1: excuse me! excuse me! sorry! excuse me! 
speaker2: no problem!

speaker1: there's one thing you don't know about mr. keane and his adultery and as painful as it is i feel that i should tell you! 
speaker2: what? what is it!
speaker1: that woman on the roof? that was no ex-girlfriend! in fact, no woman at all. it was i, simon loring, master of disguise! willsy and i have moved in together!
speaker3: look what i found!
speaker2: eric! wow!
speaker4: hey, char!
speaker2: long time no see! one night we show up to rent eraserhead and you're just gone!
speaker4: sorry about that!
speaker3: it was such a drag! you know, having to actually start paying to rent movies!
speaker4: i bet!
speaker2: what's up? ralph said you moved to rockland county!
speaker4: yeah, i got a job working for my mom's new boyfriend!
speaker2: what does he do?
speaker4: he sells pot!
speaker3: cool!
speaker4: not really. i was a driver! i got laid off when he got busted. he's awaiting trial!
speaker2: so what're you doing now?
speaker4: same thing pretty much. only for domino's!
speaker3: whoa, i don't believe it! she hasn't laughed in like a week!
speaker5: -- so everybody on the conference call starts introducing themselves. ned lewey, paris office. takashi matsuo, tokyo office. whoever, the london office. and then someone says, "will the architect from the new york office please identify himself." and i pipe up and say, "well, guys, i'm not a him or an architect. i'm patty strauss and i'm head of east coast marketing." and there's like total silence. it was hysterical!
speaker6: i'm sorry, would you excuse me?
speaker5: of course.
speaker6: who is it?
speaker7: nobody!

speaker1: last time i checked i was your best friend! 
speaker2: so?
speaker1: so after the party, no thank you! i call you three times -- no call back! and for six days you don't even eat at your own restaurant! what am i supposed to think? huh?! i was ready to call the morgue!
speaker2: relax, i'm alive.
speaker1: well, you sure don't look it!

speaker1: on my roof? you gotta be kiddin'! not on my green chair! tell me it wasn't on the green chair. 
speaker1: oh, great. now how am i gonna clean that?

speaker1: look, it doesn't matter that she's sick -- she's still a kid and there's no way we should be together. it's unhealthy... it's... it's inappropriate... 
speaker2: what the is that? some sorta shrink talk?
speaker1: look, if she were just fun... just some sort of diversion... maybe i could justify it. but the worst part is that it's becoming more. much more. it's embarrassing how much i like her. she gets to me. she affects me...
speaker1: and she's gonna be gone and... i'm not sure i can... i mean... i already think about her all the time... her smile kills me... and the thought... that it'll be gone... forever... that i'll never see her again... i don't know... i can't -- i don't think i'm that strong, johnny. it's too much. i'd rather have it be over... over now. i'll start missing her now.
speaker2: buddy, i hate to break it to you, but in the real world... where i live... there're only two kindsa love stories. boy loses girl and girl loses boy. that's all there is. somebody always gets left behind. you try to avoid that, you'll end up an old man toastin' yourself with egg nog in the mirror on christmas eve. you'll end up dying in your own arms.

speaker1: thank you so much. i had such a great time. 
speaker2: good. i'm... i'm glad.
speaker1: didn't you?
speaker2: patty, i... i want to be honest with you... right now, from the start... so there's no room for misunderstanding. i didn't have a good time, but it's nothing personal. i just split up with someone and rather than admit to myself how much i miss her, i asked you out instead. and it's unfair. if i feel sad i should just feel sad and not try to use you... and your body... as some sort of painkiller, right? anyway, i think you're a warm and engaging woman and i wish you all the best.

speaker1: mr. keane -- 
speaker2: good night, michael.
speaker1: you've got a visitor.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: she's been waitin' almost an hour. in the lobby. a little surprise for ya.

speaker1: sorry to disappoint you. 
speaker2: no, no. not at all. you surprised me, that's all. i didn't expect to see you... not here... not after your letter.
speaker1: well, i didn't expect you to show up at my job.
speaker2: i followed you in. i wasn't even sure it was you. all i have is an old snapshot.
speaker1: my boss thought you were a stalker.
speaker2: i didn't mean to run off like that.
speaker1: but you did.
speaker1: so you got my letter. what'd you do? freak out? burn it?
speaker2: i saved it.
speaker1: i was just blowing off some steam, okay? i think i have the right.
speaker2: so do i. look, why don't we go upstairs.
speaker1: no. i didn't plan to come. peter... my husband... he agrees. he thinks it's a futile exercise. but it turns out i'm pregnant. just a few months, but --
speaker2: lisa -- congratulations. that's wonderful.
speaker1: thanks. anyway, i guess it made me want to meet you. i've been a little sentimental about parent-hood.
speaker2: is that what you consider me?
speaker1: in a lousy absentee sorta way, sure.
speaker2: how's your mom?
speaker1: great. nuts. she moved to costa rica last summer.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: a guy, what else? he owns a charter airline and wears sunglasses indoors. i think he might be a gunrunner.
speaker1: you know, you're much better looking in person than in photographs. i always assumed mom was exaggerating, but she wasn't.
speaker2: thanks. you're not bad looking yourself.
speaker1: anyway... i should go...
speaker2: already?
speaker1: i really just wanted to meet you and... maybe... i don't know...
speaker2: what is it? tell me.
speaker1: nothing earth-shattering. maybe just to hear you say you were sorry.
speaker2: i am. i'm very sorry.
speaker1: okay. thanks.
speaker2: can i call you?
speaker1: before... when you came in... who did you think i was?
speaker2: a friend.
speaker1: you must like her an awful lot.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: where were you? i was worried.
speaker1: so worried you fell asleep. what're you doing here?
speaker2: i've missed you. you have no idea how much.
speaker1: how'd you get in?
speaker2: dolly. we watched tv. she fell asleep. what time is it?
speaker1: i didn't know i had a curfew.
speaker2: where were you?
speaker1: none of your business. so what is it? what do you want?
speaker2: to tell you that you were right. i do hate myself. but not so much that i can't see how stupid and despicable and --
speaker1: cowardly.
speaker2: and cowardly what i did was. and even though there's no excuse for it, i want you to forgive me.
speaker1: why should i?
speaker2: because, for better or worse, i'm falling in love with you, and the thought of our not being together is unbearable to me.
speaker1: let's sleep.
speaker1: in the morning, we'll talk about what a gigantic you are.
speaker2: so where were you?
speaker1: with shannon and simon and eric.
speaker2: who's eric?
speaker1: an old friend who used to work at blockbuster.
speaker2: what'd you guys do?
speaker1: talked and drank. simon and shannon finally went home. eric and i hung out.
speaker2: hung out where?
speaker1: stop. we'll talk about it tomorrow.
speaker2: fine.
speaker2: talk about what? is there something to talk about? what happened?

speaker1: no, honestly, i think i have a right to know. 
speaker2: and i honestly think i have a right not to tell you.
speaker1: you're being unreasonable.
speaker2: you're being nosy.

speaker1: you know, in this day and age it's not so outrageous a request. i mean, i don't know this kid. i don't know where he's been. 
speaker2: you're worried about where he's been? give me a break!

speaker1: it requires balance and i have lousy balance, okay? 
speaker2: oh, come on, what's the worst that can happen? well, i guess you could break a hip.
speaker1: look, i'm not in a sporting mood!
speaker2: how come?
speaker1: i'm jealous, okay?! is that what you want to hear? are you satisfied now?
speaker2: not even close!

speaker1: i wish i were exaggerating, but i'm not. i slept with every one of them. really. look through dolly's old photo albums... or any movie magazine... visit aspen at christmas. i was on a mission. and until recently i really didn't think i had a problem. or if i did, it was definitely the most pleasurable one i could imagine. 
speaker2: what changed?
speaker1: my house in malibu burned to the ground.
speaker1: i know, it sounds funny. but it must have triggered something because the next thing i knew i couldn't sleep. i'd lie awake at night absolutely terrified. like a kid left alone in the dark.
speaker2: what were you scared of?
speaker1: how quickly time was passing and how adolescent i still felt. how meaningless all my choices seemed. how lonely i was. so i liquidated my portfolio, sold my businesses, and moved back here. to start over, settle down, start acting my age. you were supposed to be my one last dalliance with youth.
speaker2: well, for your sake, i hope i am.

speaker1: judge you? why would i? screw the age difference -- i like the new you! before charlotte came along, do you have any idea how hard it was to get you to sit down for a happy meal? 
speaker2: uncle wills, how come you don't get married?
speaker3: yeah, how come, uncle wills?
speaker4: i want to, carla, but --
speaker2: i'm not carla! i'm molly!
speaker4: well, molly, i just haven't met the right woman yet.
speaker5: what about charlotte? she's funny- pretty.
speaker1: it means funny and pretty. it's their highest compliment.
speaker4: i agree. she's also demanding.
speaker3: where're you goin'?
speaker4: she's decided she wants her birthday present today.
speaker3: but that was last month.
speaker4: the dom didn't count. this is her real present. she chose it herself and it's not material.
speaker3: now you got me curious.
speaker1: yeah, what is it?

speaker1: okay... breath of fire... now inhale deeply... hold the breath... let your heart lotus blossom... feel the energy rise... and exhale. good. now peacock pose. 
speaker2: when does the enlightenment start?
speaker3: when you realize that i'm
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker3: yeah. no big deal. cramp in the old fifth shakra!
speaker2: don't worry. you're gonna be okay.

speaker1: excuse me... do you have an extra one of those? 
speaker2: you a smoker?
speaker1: not for years.
speaker2: well, hell, if i'm gonna be the one to get you goin' again.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker2: don't mention it.
speaker3: the repeat mri and cat scan do show interval progression.
speaker1: which means the tumor's grown?
speaker3: yes. yes, it has. considerably. as for her loss of consciousness, one explanation is a disturbance in her heart's electrical function. we'll be monitoring her overnight for any arrhythmias. if we find something, we'll treat it. unfortunately, the more likely explanation is that the tumor has begun to obstruct the outflow of her heart. if that's the case, there's little we can do. we could be speaking in terms of weeks not months.
speaker3: when she returns home, we'll want her to stay active, but don't let her overexert herself. don't stay long. she's been sedated.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: are you all right? you're okay? how do you feel?
speaker1: stoned.
speaker2: i'll let you rest. i should. you'll sleep and then --
speaker1: shhh.
speaker1: you still owe me a birthday present.
speaker2: i do not.
speaker1: just 'cause i fainted is no excuse for you to bail on your peacock pose.
speaker2: it ought to be illegal.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: your smile. it's too pretty.
speaker1: i've ruined you for other women.
speaker2: you have.
speaker1: all part of my master plan. do you wanna hear a story... a bedtime story?
speaker2: shouldn't i be telling you one?
speaker1: once upon a time, there was a woman on a ship crossing the atlantic and her little boy got sick. very sick. and she said whoever saves my boy's life... i'll name my next baby after them. well, they got into port and they rushed her son to st. vincent's hospital... to here... and they saved his life. and so the mother named her next baby edna st. vincent millay. and edna grew up to be, as i am sure you know, the second greatest female poet in american history.
speaker2: the first would be emily dickinson.
speaker1: you're a quick learner -- i like that about you... "it may be, when my heart is dull, having attained its girth, i shall not find so beautiful the meagre shapes of earth, nor linger in the rain to mark the small of tansy through the dark." her eyes drift shut --
speaker1: i am so pretentious...
speaker2: charlotte, listen, i --
speaker1: uh-oh. heavy, heavy...
speaker2: i just think --
speaker1: no. no violins. i'm fine. go home... sleep...

speaker1: it just didn't seem real and now that it is, i hate it! it's so unfair! 
speaker2: fare is what you pay on the train to jersey. fair is the place that smells like manure where, if you're real lucky, you win a blue ribbon for your home-made pickles. fair is a sky without a cloud and a face with a mark. fare is food. what fair isn't is everything else.
speaker3: well, i think i speak for all of us when i say that we've heard quite enough from dolores. dolores chuckles. simon continues to wills --
speaker3: now, correct me if i'm wrong, but i believe what you're saying is that while the end may be in sight, it has not yet arrived.
speaker4: that's right. the tumor's begun to interfere with the function of her heart, but she --
speaker3: then why exactly have you called us here?
speaker3: i cut short a lunch date, shannon's missing her low-impact aerobics class, and dolores has delayed the start of her happy hour -- surely you must have had good reason.
speaker4: i thought charlotte's health might be of some interest you.
speaker3: it is. you could have told me all about it on the telephone.
speaker4: i also thought it might be a good idea if we discussed ways to make her as comfortable as possible for the --
speaker3: charlotte loathes comfortable. i never sought to bore her with comfort while she was well, why should i start now that she's sick?
speaker4: tell me, are you really so cold? or is it just a pose that you've cultivated?
speaker3: it's a pose that i've cultivated. i chose it, as a sort of smoke screen, some time after attending my twentieth funeral in as many months.
speaker4: i'm sorry.
speaker3: it's quite all right. but, honestly, it shocks me how often you people forget. our phone books have as many numbers crossed out as written in. so that while death is certainly as painful to us as it is to you, we do not find it nearly so... extraordinary. don't misunderstand me. i adore charlotte and when she dies, i would... were it not already in that state... cry my heart dry.

speaker1: she's in the hospital now. she doesn't have long. weeks maybe and -- she... anyway, i have something to ask you. a favor. i have no right to ask. i know. i'd do it myself, but i can't. i'm too... i'm... he takes a deep breath to keep himself from crying. 
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: i want you to find a surgeon. dr. sibley told me... charlotte's doctor told me... he said at some point, when it's hopeless, surgery could be an option. heroic surgery, he called it. i want to make sure that when the time comes a hero is performing that heroic surgery. do you understand? you'll have to make calls. i'll get names. sibley will give me names. i'm sorry to ask you... i have no right. but, you see, she doesn't want it... this surgery... i'll have to convince her. so no one can know... for now. and i trust you. you're my only family and i... you have every right to refuse me. after what i did. you were a child... and you needed me... and i was nowhere to be found. there's no excuse for that. i'm so terribly sorry!
speaker2: i'd be happy to do it.
speaker2: dad, i'm really sorry she's sick.

speaker1: you never talk about my mother. talk about her. 
speaker2: what do you want to know?
speaker1: everything. all i remember is that she smelled like vanilla, loved to read to me, and was really good at cutting up fruit. i couldn't believe she didn't cut her fingers off.
speaker2: well, i remember a little more than that. let's see... she was blonde... about your height --
speaker1: i've seen pictures, dummy.
speaker2: oh, okay. she... always ate her ice cream with a fork -- how's that?
speaker1: much better.
speaker2: and she wrote great letters, but couldn't spell at all.
speaker1: neither can i.
speaker2: she was a mcgovern democrat but also an incredible snob. she loved blueberries. she had the world's worst backhand. her favorite singer was stephen stills.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: never mind. she was afraid of sharks. and, considering the times, she was pretty square. she only tried drugs once -- a lifeguard gave her a hash brownie and she threw it up all over him.
speaker2: and she laughed just like that. and she bit her fingernails. and she couldn't tell a joke. in short, she was a unique.

speaker1: did you know she was in love with you? 
speaker2: she told me.
speaker1: were you in love with her?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: why? because she was the only girl in rhode island who wouldn't sleep with you?
speaker2: that's how she got my attention; it's not why i fell in love with her. i fell in love with her because she charmed me senseless day and night for an entire summer.
speaker1: then why did you screw her best friend on labor day?
speaker1: it's just a question.
speaker2: i have no idea. the summer was over. your mom was going back to smith. i was moving down here to work on wall street. it was our last day together. she was crying. she told me, for the first time, that she loved me. i said i loved her, too. i promised to call and visit. a few hours later i was in a cabana with millie. when millie told me she was pregnant and that she wanted to marry me, i escaped to l.a... and i never saw her or your mom again.
speaker1: well done.
speaker2: i think it's part of the reason i never came back.
speaker1: but why're you like that? what is it? i mean, you weren't born that way.
speaker2: i might as well have been. for as long as i can remember, i've always run off at the first sign of a woman wanting anything from me... relying on me in any way.
speaker1: but i want everything from you, wills. i rely on you in every way.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: so the only reason you don't dump me is because i'm sick? because you know that it's all going to be over, anyway?
speaker2: maybe. but it doesn't feel that way. it feels as though i'm not afraid anymore.

speaker1: i didn't know you could sing! 
speaker2: i didn't know you couldn't! she laughs and continues to sing.
speaker3: well, you all know what time it is!
speaker1: no, i don't. do you?

speaker1: you call that a rose? it looks more like a hand grenade! 
speaker2: mr. keane, you get her outta here or, i swear to i'm gonna butterfly and stuff her!
speaker3: i'll add it to the specials list.
speaker1: no way! i'm too pricey!
speaker1: hello, sunshine!
speaker4: you seen celia?
speaker3: what's the matter?
speaker4: the matter is i got a half-hour wait and no help up front! you got a call on two!

speaker1: wills keane. 
speaker2: i've got him!

speaker1: his name's tom grandy. harvard undergrad. columbia medical school. he's at the cleveland clinic. i know, i know. but don't laugh. it's one of the best in the world. 
speaker1: he did his residency at the brigham in boston... his cardiac surgery training at cleveland.
speaker1: he was so good they kept him on and within three years he was chief of the program.
speaker1: he travels a lot. spends lots of time lecturing. i got you an appointment tomorrow at twelve-thirty. don't be late. he only has fifteen minutes.

speaker1: listen, i'm not gonna you. if she were a baby, she'd have a decent chance, 'cause these sorts of tumors can regress like crazy, but she's twenty and... i don't know, man... i've never seen anything like it. i mean, look! it's wrapped around her vital structures like an octopus! you know, just once i'd like to get sent something simple. a "cabbage," a valve replacement. even a good old- fashioned transplant. but it doesn't happen anymore. it's the downside of being good at my job. 
speaker2: good? they say there's no one better.
speaker1: i don't know. i'm like most people. i do the best i can.
speaker2: can your best save her?
speaker1: probably not.
speaker1: in these sorts of cases, it's best if she signs a consent.
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: good. the last time charlotte passed out, she regained consciousness almost immediately. the next time or the time after, she won't. when that happens, call me. here's my service. they'll reach me no matter where i am. in the meantime, i'll coordinate with dr. sibley.
speaker2: i can't thank you enough.
speaker1: i haven't done anything yet.

speaker1: by the way -- where were you today? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: when you called i assumed you were at the restaurant, but when i called back later, said you hadn't been in all day.
speaker2: i was in montclair, new jersey.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: an opportunity.
speaker1: oh, really? sexual or professional?
speaker2: i was considering opening a restaurant. but the rents are too high.

speaker1: hey! how do you feel about christmas? 
speaker2: bah humbug...

speaker1: will you and mister keane be goin' away for the holidays? 
speaker2: i doubt it.
speaker1: i've seen so little of america. i don't care for airplanes, you see, and i have so little time to travel. did mister keane enjoy his trip then?
speaker2: what trip?
speaker1: why, just yesterday.
speaker2: i wouldn't really call that a trip.
speaker1: perhaps not. but i've never been to ohio myself. they say parts of it are quite lovely.

speaker1: straight? 
speaker2: i thought we had a deal.
speaker1: i'm sure we do. about what?
speaker2: lying. you were in ohio yesterday.
speaker1: i met with a heart specialist. he's willing to operate.
speaker2: but you know i don't want that! you know i've signed papers that --
speaker1: well, maybe i want it.
speaker2: it isn't your decision!
speaker1: of course not, but if you'll hear me out --
speaker2: no! i told you right from the start how i felt and you went behind my back! you lied and --
speaker1: oh, christ, knock it off! you're such a saint, so above it all, but you're scared to death! you do want to live! and if you were as honest as you say you are you'd let the doctors do whatever they can to help you! her face shuts like a trap. she walks toward the bedroom door --
speaker2: i won't give people hope when there isn't any.
speaker1: why not?! maybe we want hope! or maybe we just need to know that we did everything we could! maybe i need to know that... if i'm going to be able to live... to go on without... without --
speaker2: now i know why you hurt so many women. because you always knew if you held on to one of them, you'd never let go.

speaker1: when we met, i was so lonely. but i didn't even know it. i'd been alone so long.. almost forever... 
speaker2: so had i.
speaker1: but now we have each other. oh, what would i do, wills? what would i do if you weren't here? where would i be?
speaker2: you don't ever have to worry about that.
speaker1: i'll do whatever i have to! i'll tear up the papers! whatever you want! tell the doctor! because... i really do want... i don't want to leave you!

speaker1: wills?! 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: how long was i asleep?
speaker2: a couple of hours.
speaker1: wow. and i'm still tired.
speaker2: that's all right. relax.
speaker1: what're you doing in there?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: liar!
speaker2: don't! don't move! just one more minute!

speaker1: what're you doing?! 
speaker1: oh no! you didn't!
speaker2: you were just going to tire yourself out!
speaker1: this i've gotta see!
speaker2: just hold on!
speaker2: finishing touches!
speaker2: almost!
speaker2: voila!

speaker1: time cannot break the bird's wing from the bird. bird and wing together go down, one feather. no thing that ever flew, not the lark, not you, can die as others do. 
speaker2: what have i done to you?
speaker1: ruined me for other women.
speaker2: no... i saved you for them...
speaker3: is she type 'n' cross for six units?!
speaker4: yes, doctor.
speaker5: what're we waiting for?
speaker6: just you, doctor!
speaker5: then let's move!

speaker1: it happened so quickly. we'd just talked about the surgery. she agreed to it. but i thought there'd be time. 
speaker2: i've had friends who weren't expected to last till morning who lived another seven years. another ran a marathon and died the next weekend. it's all so terribly random the way life actually works. i take nothing for granted.
speaker1: you know, it's funny, the first time i saw her, i --

speaker1: actually, to be honest, peter's more than a little freaked. i mean, how could he not be? he's twenty-six. his first child. a baby girl, no less. nothing really prepares you for it. 
speaker2: i guess not.
speaker1: he said it's the first time since we got married that he's actually realized what marriage is. that it's forever. that he can't just pick up and run away to nepal or something if we have a fight. that he's part of the cycle of things now. that he's gonna die some day. that it's the next generation's turn to take the stage.

