CHILDREN: my turn! my turn! no, i was next! no, me! uncle phil, uncle phil, can i do one? i want to do one! 
PHIL: guys, guys, please! this is risky stuff here. and i'm a highly trained professional.
PHIL: okay, okay! uncle phil will launch another booster...
PHIL: ...just as soon as he completes his fuel intake.

WILLIS: it'll take us six months just to get to mars. another year on the surface, then six months back. that's two years... 
WILLIS: i guess what i'm trying to say is, since this is my last night on earth, it's gonna be a very precious memory to me. y'know?
PRETTY GIRL: nice try, nick.
KIROV: hey, woody, our mars one crew won't be heading back to earth till ten days after you guys land at our base camp with mars two. that's a pretty good long rendezvous.
WOODY: what are you suggesting, sergei?
KIROV: maybe you should bring a baseball bat. yes? american baseball? our two crews could have ourselves a little solar system series.
WOODY: please. half you guys are foreigners. we'd crush you.
KIROV: no, no, we have equal crews. three men, one woman. same handicap.
WOODY: easy now, you're talking about my wife. and terri just happens to be one helluva shortstop.
TERRI: fast pitch, no steals, batter calls his own strikes. thousand bucks make it interesting?
COTE: eh bien. winner take all.
TERRI: good. bring some balls.
WOODY: you wanna know the sad part? technically i outrank her. but if we want any peace at all on mars two, i'm gonna be saying a lot of "yes, dears." the others laugh.
1ST WIFE: ...just not sure how i feel about nasa allowing couples to go on this type of mission together.
1ST WIFE: nothing personal, terri. it's just that, well, it's kind of a funny feeling for those of us staying behind.
TERRI: all the research shows that marriage will provide stability on these long duration trips.
2ND WIFE: then they haven't studied some of the couples i've known.
3RD WIFE: anybody seen jim mcconnell?
4TH WIFE: i don't think he's coming.
1ST WIFE: that poor man. how's he doing?
2ND WIFE: totally losing it, from what i hear. can't sleep, can't eat. visits her grave almost every day. they say he could lose mission status.
3RD WIFE: oh, that's so sad. that is just so tragic. you go to a routine physical one day, and wham.
4TH WIFE: after all those years of training, too. it was their whole dream.
1ST WIFE: must be a pretty funny feeling for luke graham. y'know? now he's gonna be in the history books. first man on mars...
DEBRA: he's not coming, luke.
LUKE: jim deserves this, too. all his friends are here. and it's my last night.
LUKE: i love you, deb.
DEBRA: i love you too, baby. but maybe you should spend some time with bobby.
LUKE: yeah. i will. where is he?
DEBRA: up in his fort.

WILLIS: deep space is so lonesome. so cold. but i guess i'll have my memories to keep me warm... 
BOBBY: who's gonna read to me now, at bedtime?
LUKE: mommy will.
BOBBY: i like when you do it. now we're never gonna finish our book.
LUKE: well, i'll tell you what. i've been thinking about that. and what i thought was -- how 'bout if i bring along my own copy? then every night, wherever i am, i'll read a little bit more of it. and i'll know that you and mommy, wherever you are, you're reading it too. that way, it'll feel like we're still reading it together. 'cause i don't know about you, but i'm pretty anxious to find out how 'ol ben gunn got marooned on that island. what d'you say?
LUKE: good deal. can i have a hug?

DEBRA: we were afraid you wouldn't come. 
MCCONNELL: i caught a whiff of your barbecue. after that i was helpless.
DEBRA: all the way out in galveston?
MCCONNELL: something like that. it's his night, deb. i didn't want to spoil it.
DEBRA: spoil it? he's been going crazy looking for you.
LUKE: c'mon. a whole lot of folks here are gonna be mighty glad to see you.

LUKE: then you've got a short memory. think back to how we were by the second week of lunar training. 
WOODY: oh, you're not gonna bring that up again --
LUKE: i'm trying to remember, let's see, which one of us scored the lowest ranking up there?
WOODY: you just can't let that go --
LUKE: oh, man, three commanders, on the same ship? if they sent us off to mars together, there wouldn't be enough fuel to lift all those egos.
WOODY: bullshit, we would've made a great crew.
MCCONNELL: that was never gonna happen. i was always teamed with maggie, and we were mostly chalkboard jockies. you know? systems. payloads...
LUKE: listen to him. mr. cover-of-time magazine!
WOODY: yeah, who landed the crippled block ii shuttle?
LUKE: yeah, and who scored highest on the lunar rankings?
WOODY: let it go, luke.
MCCONNELL: sure, i made a little noise. but putting the first footprints on mars? nah. that's for guys who... ...wrote their ph.d. thesis on how to colonize the place. and guys who... ...read too much science fiction as a kid and still wear little flash gordon rocketships around their necks. he grabs playfully at woody's neck. woody smacks his hand away, laughing.
WOODY: you read the same science fiction books that i did! you're just not man enough to wear jewelry!
WOODY: you want flash. you know you want him. well you'll have to come through me!
MCCONNELL: she would've loved to see you two clowns. just one more time.

LUKE: hey, woodrow, isn't it about time you donated this thing to a museum? 
WOODY: internal combustion, boys. accept no substitutes.
WOODY: jim, if there's ever... if there's anything terri and i can do --
MCCONNELL: i'm okay. really. thanks.
WOODY: see you when i get to mars, luke. don't solve all the mysteries of the universe, okay? leave a little something for the next guys.
LUKE: i'll see what i can do. just make sure you bring some fresh beer.
WOODY: you got it.
LUKE: should've been your mission, jim. yours and maggie's.
LUKE: none of us ever wanted mars the way you two did. not even woody. twelve years of hoping for this assignment, training for it --
MCCONNELL: that's all over now.
LUKE: if maggie hadn't gotten sick -- if you hadn't pulled yourself out of the rotation to take care of her --
LUKE: no, i'm gonna say this. i have to say it... i wanted mars one. hell, i battled you for it every step of the way. never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life. but not like this... jim, i'd give this all up in a second, if it would bring maggie back to us.
MCCONNELL: i know that, luke. you don't have to say it... mars is yours now. go get it.
LUKE: take care of yourself.
MCCONNELL: yeah. you too.

COTE: luke, you read me? 
LUKE: yeah, renee.
COTE: luke, i just got ares-8 on line and... well, we think you're gonna wanna see this for yourself.
LUKE: copy that.

LUKE: what the is that? 
COTE: no idea, boss.
LUKE: where is it?
WILLIS: you don't wanna know.
LUKE: c'mon, what's so funny? gimme the coordinates.
COTE: latitude 41 degrees north, longitude 9 degrees west.
LUKE: the plains of cydonia. so? oh no. you're not telling me --
COTE: oui. exactement! it's kirov's fault, he picked today's sector.
KIROV: hey, c'mon! we've got a scientific duty to check that thing out.
LUKE: great. that's great. the first anomaly we hit, and it's gotta be in the one place guaranteed to make nasa look ridiculous... you know how many books have been written about that mountain?
COTE: the egyptians put it there.
KIROV: no, the amazons.
WILLIS: no, it was little green men!
LUKE: and all because a couple of lousy impact craters happen to look like eye sockets. if this gets out, we'll have every ufo kook on earth spouting off on the six o'clock news... c'mon, people, gimme a read here. is that a cinder cone?
KIROV: nah, too smooth. too angular. volcanic upwelling?
COTE: no fissures. no caldera.
LUKE: it's an upwelling, for sure. but maybe not volcanic...
LUKE: look at the color. and see how shiny it is? i could swear that's ice...
COTE: this far south?
WILLIS: impossible. you can't have ice at this latitude. not unless...
WILLIS: oh my
LUKE: how far away is it?
KIROV: sixteen kilometers northeast. take us twenty minutes to get there.
LUKE: let's send a packet to micker. then we'll go check it out.

LUKE: we're all trying not to go too nuts up here, but -- we think there's a good chance this could be an extrusion from some subsurface, geothermal column of water. and if we're right... 
LUKE: ...then we've found the key to permanent human colonization.

LUKE: anyone else hear that? 
COTE: yeah. what is it?
WILLIS: sounds like our antenna's out of phase.
LUKE: can you fix it?
WILLIS: hey, skip, i can fix anything.
LUKE: big talker. renee, sergei, let's break out the radar, see what this thing's made of.

BECK: no, actually, that's jim mcconnell, the capcom. our voice link to the astronauts? jim's been with the manned mars program since its inception. one of our real pioneers. 
AMBASSADOR: will he be going to mars, too?
BECK: ah, no. this is as close as he gets.

LUKE: ...anyway, that's about it. we'll send another packet when we get back. 
LUKE: oh, right. one more thing. today is a very special day for a good friend of ours, and i know he's there right now.
LUKE: now, he hates it when any fuss is made, so i won't mention his name...
LUKE: ...because the last thing in the world i'd ever want to do is embarrass someone like jim mcconnell.
LUKE: c'mon, you micker weasels, sing!
LUKE: hey, ray! take a look at him! is he all red with one of those fake "i'm- a-good-sport" grins?
LUKE: and hey, you guys, check out ray! does he have on one of his "this- wasn't-in-my-mission-plan" faces?
LUKE: nothing you can do about it, ray! we're a hundred million miles away!
LUKE: happy birthday, jimbo! make a wish!
LUKE: catch you again soon. take care, buddy. end of transmission.

LUKE: well? what's under there? 
COTE: je ne sais pas. i... i think there's something wrong with the equipment.
LUKE: what?
COTE: i mean, it can't be right. it says... it says there's metal under there.
COTE: there's ten, twelve meters of rubble and sand, and then... solid metal.
LUKE: that doesn't make any sense. you're reading a vein of ore.
COTE: no. it's under the whole mountain.
LUKE: nick, could the problem with the antenna be interfering?
WILLIS: could be.
LUKE: try it closer and up the power. i'll watch the screen.

LUKE: nick, how we coming on that antenna? 
WILLIS: goin' as fast as i can, boss.
KIROV: hey, nick. come show me how stupid i am. i can't get this to work.

KIROV: all set here, chief. 
LUKE: okay. crank up the juice and let's see what's in this

WOODY: "problem: hatch door malfunction, backup power fail, manual override fail. solution: replace circuit breaker 907b." he straps into the pilot's seat, staring at an electrical junction box at one end of the console. 
WOODY: okay... piece of cake.
WOODY: who dreams up these nightmares?
TERRI: don't try to change the subject.
WOODY: i'm not! we're talking about your sister's wedding, right?
TERRI: very funny. we're talking about dancing lessons. before my sister's wedding.
WOODY: honey, do you mind? i've got a catastrophic power failure here.
TERRI: woody, we're a married couple. would it kill you to invite me out on the floor once in awhile?
WOODY: i danced with you at our wedding.
TERRI: i'm not talking about shuffling your feet around while you grab my i mean real dancing. cha-cha, rhumba, jitterbug --
WOODY: face it, honey, some couples dance, some go to mars. that's life.
TERRI: i'm serious. we've got two more months in this training rotation, but just as soon as we get home, we're starting lessons. if we never dance, people will think there's something wrong.
WOODY: if they see me dance, they'll know there's something wrong.
TERRI: you are such a lug. overhead, an intercom crackles. we hear phil.
PHIL'S VOICE: cockpit, this is control.
TERRI: control, this is cockpit.
PHIL'S VOICE: uh, terri, they want us all back in the station. report to micker.
TERRI: who says report to micker?
PHIL'S VOICE: the little men who live in my head.
WOODY: phil, c'mon! we just started this drill.
PHIL: woody, it was ray beck. he told me to round up the team. now.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

BECK: then, at 1417, the x-band continuous data stream from mars went silent. all data -- med, environmental, everything -- suddenly stopped. while we were trying to figure out what the went wrong, we got a signal from the folks at the large array at soccoro. 
MCCONNELL: at the same moment we lost the data stream, they picked up an intense burst of energy from mars.
WOODY: what do you mean, "intense"?
MCCONNELL: catastrophic.
TERRI: what about the crew?
BECK: the level of energy in the pulse... didn't seem survivable.
WOODY: what about the remo? it went into mars orbit last week. maybe that could give us some clue.
MCCONNELL: good thinking, woody. that's just what we tried next. he leans over, punches buttons on a keyboard.

MCCONNELL: the resupply module checked out fine. no instrument failures, no change in status. orbit holding steady. but there was something else. the remo's computer contained an uplink message -- a very faint, highly distorted transmission from mars one base camp. 
TERRI: someone's alive.
MCCONNELL: yes.
PHIL: how?
BECK: the message is almost indecipherable. two teams are still working on it. you better see for yourselves.

TECHNICIAN: still concentrating on the audio. we managed to bring out a couple more words, but we've got a long way to go. 
WOODY: show us whatever you've got.

LUKE: ...make this quick... may be only ch-- ...to the site, when we... hit us just as we... --thers are all dead... 
LUKE: ...low sound that we couldn't understand. then all of a sudden there was this terrib... ...--stems are holding up for now, but i don't know how long i can...

PHIL'S EYES: he looks back at her, haunted. 
TERRI: what did luke mean by a "low sound?"

BECK: if this was a earthquake, as we're now assuming, there's usually an auditory component. 
WOODY: but that energy pulse they picked up in new mexico...
PHIL: electromagnetic emission. not uncommon with large-scale geophysical phenomena.
WOODY: causing this kind of damage? i don't buy it. we're missing something here.
TERRI: luke must be in pretty bad shape if he hasn't blasted out of there in the earth return vehicle. that thing's designed so even one crew member could fly it back to earth.
MCCONNELL: even if luke was in great shape, he couldn't get home. that energy pulse would've fried the erv's computers.
WOODY: other than the computers, how do we think the erv fared?
BECK: well, so far our modelling says it should be in pretty good shape.
WOODY: which means it's gonna be up to us to get new motherboards, drives, and software to mars. as fast as we can.
BECK: whoa, slow down. it's gonna take us weeks just to analyze this data.
MCCONNELL: right, but meanwhile, we've gotta be working up a mission plan.
WOODY: luke needs us now.
BECK: luke may already be dead. and even if he's not, it's doubtful he's going to be able to transmit again. so we wouldn't know whether it's safe to land until you were almost there.
PHIL: what about sima?
PHIL: the saturn imaging probe. it's going to slingshot around mars on its way through the solar system. it could be retasked to take pictures, read radiation levels at mars one base camp.
WOODY: good idea phil. if sima tells us luke hasn't survived and it's not safe to land, we swing around mars and come right back home.
MCCONNELL: yes. we can design the mission to have a free return capability. it's a long trip, but if you don't land it's the best option.
BECK: we're getting ahead of ourselves. you're forgetting the bigger problem. the orbits are all wrong. our first decent launch window is almost eight months from now.
MCCONNELL: but we can go earlier and get there faster if we reconfigure the payload for extra fuel. we've modelled that, ray. i've modelled it.
BECK: on paper, yeah. but those stresses have never been tested in space.
MCCONNELL: the ship can take it.
BECK: i wasn't thinking of just the ship.
MCCONNELL: i know the protocols for a mars recovery mission better than anybody, because i helped design them. and i'm saying these guys can do it.
WOODY: he's right, ray. we've got a real shot.
BECK: give me an updated mission plan by 0800 tomorrow. then i'll put it in the works.
MCCONNELL: you'll have it by 0600.
MCCONNELL: let's get to work.
WOODY: chief, could i have a word?
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.
WOODY: i've no longer got the right crew.
BECK: what do you mean? bjornstrom can be up here on the next shuttle.
WOODY: bjornstrom is a geologist. he's good, but not for this. my people just lost eight months of training. this is a different mission, with a different objective.
BECK: i haven't been given authorization for a mission yet.
WOODY: but when you are, it ought to be given the best chance for success. i want mcconnell to fly right seat.
BECK: he's no longer on mission status.
WOODY: yeah. because you washed him out.
BECK: he washed himself out. he only had to pass a few more psych evaluations, but he refused to take them.
WOODY: ray, he's the best pilot i ever saw, and you've got him benched at a desk.
BECK: everybody has to pass the psych prelims. no exceptions. jim knew that.
WOODY: maggie was his wife. he didn't want to lie on a couch and share her with strangers.
BECK: that was his call. but i had to make one too. it was tough as hell, but i'd do it again.
WOODY: his wife wasted away in front of his eyes. what was he supposed to do? it up? get with the program? what was his crime? that he was upset? that he cried...?
BECK: i couldn't trust him!
BECK: not in a crisis... i'm sorry woody, but jim lost his edge. are you gonna stand there and tell me jim mcconnell is the same man he was two years ago? you want me to bet four more lives on that? this stops woody, just for a beat. then makes him press on harder, with even greater intensity.
WOODY: when maggie died, yeah, it knocked the out of him. it knocked the out of all of us. but you know and i know that he's still the best we've got. he and maggie wrote the book on mars. he's got more hours in the sims than the rest of us put together. ray, we can do this. give me mcconnell as co-pilot, and we will bring luke home. and that's a promise.

MCCONNELL: what's that? 
PHIL: that... is the exact chemical composition of my ideal woman.
MCCONNELL: used to be.
PHIL: hey!
MCCONNELL: now what is it?
PHIL: a frog.
TERRI: i guess now we have our answer to the effects of long-term interplanetary travel on the human mind. the answer is phil.

MCCONNELL: hey, skip. 
WOODY: take a look.

WOODY: what do you make of that? 
MCCONNELL: dust storm. southern hemisphere, coming from the east... big fella, too.
WOODY: headed for chryse planitia.
MCCONNELL: yup. could get a little hairy just about landing time...
WOODY: we'll have to be ready to move fast. maybe even advance our eta. those things can cover the whole planet, and last up to a year.
MCCONNELL: when does sima do her fly-by?
WOODY: tomorrow morning, about 0600. that's when we find out whether we came all this way for nothing.
MCCONNELL: my money's on luke.

PHIL: what brought this on? 
WOODY: zero-g. my last chance to be graceful. once we're in mars gravity, it's back to shuffling my feet and grabbing her
TERRI: i'll take what i can get.

COMPUTER: attention. incoming packet. 
MCCONNELL: it's sima.

WOODY: looks deserted. 
PHIL: it's still standing, though. so is the erv. and look, there's the greenhouse.
MCCONNELL: we know luke survived for at least a few hours. question is, are there any signs of recent activity?
PHIL: there.

PHIL: what the are those? 
MCCONNELL: graves.
PHIL: hold on. there's only three. that means --
TERRI: phil --
PHIL: it means luke must still be --
TERRI: no. it just means there was nobody left to bury him.
WOODY: check the radiation levels.
PHIL: normal.
WOODY: go to the disaster site.
MCCONNELL: what's wrong?
PHIL: i don't know. magnetic interference?
WOODY: go to infrared.

THE ASTRONAUTS: sit back, exasperated. 
PHIL: must be a problem with sima. i don't see how an earthquake, six months ago, could give us this kind of distortion.
MCCONNELL: that was no quake.
WOODY: then what the was it?

BECK: we're going to continue analyzing this data and try to determine what the problem is with those images. frankly, we're just as stumped as you guys, but we'll keep on it. we agree that the evidence of the graves is inconclusive and that a ground search is advisable. be aware there are little sand storms kicking up near mars one base, but the big one you spotted is turning south. it shouldn't be a factor. 
BECK: we're all pretty excited here and we're sure you must be feeling the same. enjoy your meal and get a good night's sleep. we anticipate that tomorrow morning you will be go for mars orbital insertion.

TERRI: what if you opened up your meal packs and found that, instead of putting in everything but red ones, they'd made a mistake and put in only red ones? 
PHIL: hey, that's a funny notion. and what if in your meal packs, instead of brown rice, there were spring-loaded spikes that shot into your eyes?
TERRI: how did you ever pass the psych evaluation?
PHIL: when you're schizophrenic, they take the higher score.

WOODY: maggie was always starstruck... 
MAGGIE: i'll get you guys for this.

LUKE: when they met at the air force academy, it was "love at first flight." 
WOODY: after that, nasa training was tough. all jim could think about was exploring a heavenly body. more ribald laughter, as

LUKE: today we celebrate a new chapter in their story. and guys, it's a pretty historic one. 
WOODY: let's hear it for the newly-announced captain and co-captain of mars one. to jim and maggie!

LUKE: when you guys land, it'll prove once and for all there's no intelligent life on mars. 
MAGGIE: hey, c'mon, what if i'm right?
ASSORTED VOICES: oh no, here we go! don't get her started! somebody put on some music!
MAGGIE: it's our sister planet!
PHIL: oh brother!
TERRI: maggie, why does this have to be about us? mars is a great opportunity for pure science.
MAGGIE: we'll do the science. and we'll do it very well. that's what we've trained for. but what if there's more...? in all our myths, in every human culture, mars has always held a special attraction. what if that means something? only we don't understand it yet...
MAGGIE: the universe is not chaos. it's connection. life reaches out for life...
MAGGIE: this is what we were born for, isn't it? to stand on a new world, and look beyond it to the next one. it's who we are.

WOODY: you okay? 
MCCONNELL: yeah. i'm good to go.
MCCONNELL: after all these years... can you believe it? tomorrow we'll be standing on mars.
WOODY: you know what? she may have been right.
WOODY: if that wasn't a quake down there, then something else caused it. or planned it... you're thinking the same thing.
MCCONNELL: it's never been out of my mind.
WOODY: you realize what this means?
MCCONNELL: she knew, woody. she was the only one of us that ever thought there might be something down there.
WOODY: yeah, and we're not leaving until we find out... deal?
WOODY: maggie was the best of us.

MCCONNELL: range 6783 and closing. 35 minutes till mars orbital capture. 
WOODY: okay, people let's look sharp. if we overshoot, there's no coming back.
PHIL: yeah, and drifting through eternity will ruin your whole day.
TERRI: delta v systems initialized.
WOODY: charge primary apu.
TERRI: engaged. charged.
WOODY: select hpu fuel cells for run.
TERRI: engaged.
MCCONNELL: tie main bus to systems.
PHIL: power ready.
MCCONNELL: select h2/o2 hpu and fuel cells for open.
PHIL: h2/o2 control valves open.

WOODY: charge flow. 
TERRI: charged and on-line
WOODY: reset pw.
TERRI: set
MCCONNELL: transfer protocol data from eva station.
PHIL: transferred. awaiting track confirmation.
PHIL: uhhh!

WOODY: micrometeoroids 
MCCONNELL: breach hits in the hull!

PHIL: outgassing! losing pressure! 
TERRI: woody, seal the breech!

MCCONNELL: still outgassing in the lower hab! there must be another hole down there, even bigger. 
PHIL: losing pressure fast! we're gonna decompress!
WOODY: computer, how long until zero atmosphere?
COMPUTER: four minutes, nine seconds.
PHIL: if we get below 20% atmosphere, the power will shut down!
TERRI: are you sure?
PHIL: positive! a vacuum inside the ship would cause a total electrical failure. the nav computers will fry!
PHIL: it's already starting. the primary l- 1 hub has been smashed. the systems are crashing.
WOODY: everybody switch to suit oxygen. we beat this in the simulator, we can do it here. jim, you've got the ship. i'm going eva.
WOODY: c'mon, people, let's go! let's work the problem!

PHIL: it's still bleeding. 
TERRI: keep the pressure on!
COMPUTER: eighty percent atmosphere...

TERRI: jim, you've gotta get your spare helmet from storage. 
MCCONNELL: no time. phil, can you keep the nav computers on-line?
PHIL: i can't get this machine to re- initialize! and the automated systems just went down. we can't shut down the hab rotation from here.
MCCONNELL: i'll do it from below.
TERRI: we're losing pressure. you could embolize.
COMPUTER: seventy percent atmosphere...
PHIL: jim, i've got an idea. if you guys can save enough atmosphere, i'll disconnect the power in the main computer bay, then jump start the systems. i'll do a hard boot.
MCCONNELL: has that ever been tested?
PHIL: are you kidding? these machines are much too valuable.
MCCONNELL: do it.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: just one second. come on, c'mon... 
COMPUTER: voice print identification.
MCCONNELL: mcconnell!
MCCONNELL: hang on!

COMPUTER: sixty per cent atmosphere... 
WOODY: get some light on the hole so i can locate it.
MCCONNELL: i've got a better idea. stay there!

WOODY: i'm topside, jim, do you know which sector? 
MCCONNELL: i'm workin' on it!

MCCONNELL: shake out the liquid. 
TERRI: jim, i don't --
MCCONNELL: shake it out near the hull!
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

WOODY: c'mon, c'mon, where are you...? 
COMPUTER: fifty per cent atmosphere...

MCCONNELL: woody, the breech is in sector four! sector four, copy that? 
WOODY: copy, i' heading there now.

PHIL: ok... ok now... 
PHIL: come on. come on...!

COMPUTER: twenty percent atmosphere... 
COMPUTER: pressure stabilizing... atmosphere level increasing.

PHIL: yes! awriiiight! had it all the way. yes! 
PHIL: 

PHIL'S EYES WIDEN IN FEAR: as he keys his mike urgently. 
PHIL: get back in here, guys!

WOODY: jim, there's a lot of scarring... i'd better check for other punctures while i'm out here. 
MCCONNELL: negative, negative. woody, get back inside. we've gotta start the checklist for orbital insertion.
WOODY: copy, i'm heading there now.

TERRI: piece of cake? 
WOODY: well. easier than the cha-cha.
PHIL: i don't know what you're getting so cocky about. we scored better times in the sim at least twice.
MCCONNELL: how's his hand?
TERRI: seems ok. couple of the tendons are going to be a little tight for awhile. try to close your fingers, phil, nice and slowly.
PHIL: well, at least i'll still be able to drive.

MCCONNELL: go. 
WOODY: systems.
TERRI: go.
WOODY: nav.
PHIL: go.
WOODY: we are go for the burn. i'm fueling the engines.

PHIL: four... three... 
WOODY: jim?
MCCONNELL: let's go to mars.

WOODY: what the -- 
MCCONNELL: shut down engines!

WOODY: engines negative! no response! i've got no attitude control! 
MCCONNELL: manual separation! blow the bolts!
WOODY: negative! the cm doesn't have enough thrust to correct this rotation!
PHIL: we're too steep! falling into the atmosphere...!

WOODY: how much time've we got? 
PHIL: i don't know! three minutes? i don't know!
MCCONNELL: where's the remo?
PHIL: the resupply module? why? that's not --
MCCONNELL: where is it?!
PHIL: uh, it's close...
MCCONNELL: it, how close?!
PHIL: i-i don't know. it'll take time...
MCCONNELL: we don't have time! figure it out! now!
WOODY: jim, we're dead stick, there's no way to maneuver this ship into a link-up!
MCCONNELL: not the ship. just us. we have to go
EVA.: they look at him, stunned. leave the ship?
PHIL: you want us to transfer in suits?
TERRI: jim -- if we don't make it -- if we miss the remo...
MCCONNELL: there's no other choice! phil, how close?!
PHIL: one kilometer, that's the best i can do!
WOODY: prepare to abandon ship.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

WOODY: on my mark, seven percent left thruster. three, two, one, fire. 
WOODY: okay. let's go.

TERRI: what're you looking for? 
PHIL: earth.
TERRI: hey. when we get back? we really will have to try this in the sim.
MCCONNELL: how we doin' on fuel, woody?
WOODY: i'm at fifty percent. but i don't see the remo.

TERRI: happens to glance directly below. 
TERRI: there she is!

WOODY: she's not where i thought she'd be. 
PHIL: we're going to miss her.
WOODY: looks again at his display screen, frustrated.
MCCONNELL: what do you think?
WOODY: we can't catch it. not like this.
MCCONNELL: use the tether.

MCCONNELL: we'll only have one, maybe two shots before she's out of reach. 
WOODY: it'll be better if i leave you the gun while i run out to the remo. i've got enough fuel left for that.
MCCONNELL: you'll be going too fast.
WOODY: i'll aim to overshoot, then brake like hell; arc it in.
WOODY: seeya in a few.

WOODY'S EYES: show alarm. he checks his display. 
WOODY: i'm out. coming in hot. still long. abandoning the unit. i'll brake with suit jets.
WOODY'S POV: he's still going very quickly.

WOODY: suit jets gone. but i'm gonna make contact... 
MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL: stare at woody's distant figure.

MCCONNELL: at what velocity? 
WOODY: impact's gonna be a little rough.
MCCONNELL: at what velocity?
WOODY: thirty-two.
MCCONNELL: i'm gonna use the gun to slow you.
WOODY: no! you slow me and i'll fall short.
MCCONNELL: it's too fast, woody.
WOODY: no choice. i'll be okay. here we go...

HIS GLOVED HANDS: are ripped from the line. 
WOODY: slides over the hull of the remo.

WOODY: is past the remo, freefalling toward mars. 
BACK ON MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL: as terri screams.
TERRI: woody!!
WOODY: tries his suit jets again -- they're empty.
HIS POV: falling away from the remo.

WOODY: uh, well, no suit jets and i'm still carrying a good deal of velocity. 
MCCONNELL: as soon as we get hooked up, i'll come get you.
WOODY: uh, i'd have to say negative on that, jim.
MCCONNELL: negative on the transmission?
WOODY: no, i heard you. negative on the maneuver. i am not retrievable.
TERRI: woody, that's not possible. you're not going that fast.
WOODY: it comes down to the amount of fuel, honey. the suit jets were designed for attitude control, not travel. retrieval just won't work.
PHIL: it has to work!
WOODY: hey, believe me, i don't like it any more than you do.
TERRI: woody --
WOODY: run the numbers, jim.
MCCONNELL: i am.
MCCONNELL: woody, you hang tight. we'll get into the remo, fire her up, drop her into a lower orbit and come scoop you up.
WOODY: sounds good, jim.
TERRI: it's gonna take half an hour to get the remo reoriented! woody'll be... he'll be in the atmosphere by then!
MCCONNELL: then we'll have to get her moving faster.
TERRI: we don't have time!
WOODY: you listen to jim, honey. it's a good plan.
TERRI: no! we are going to --
PHIL: oh look! the ship!

MCCONNELL: look out! 
THEIR POV: they are drifting quickly into the remo.
MCCONNELL: brakes!

MCCONNELL: okay, let's get inside! phil, start dumping the cargo, or there won't be room for us. 
PHIL: but we need those supplies for --
MCCONNELL: dump the cargo. hang on, woody!

MCCONNELL: terri, no! 
MCCONNELL: is reaching to activate his own jets, when

TERRI: i'll tell you what i'm not doing, woody. i'm not going to watch you die. 
WOODY: terri --
TERRI: you'd do the same for me.

WOODY: no. i wouldn't come for you. not if it just wasn't possible. 
TERRI: i can do it!
WOODY: no, terri, you can't! you don't have enough fuel to get me, stop us both, and get us back. hell, you come any farther and you won't have enough to get back yourself.
WOODY: listen to me, goddammit! you have to stop! you have to stop now!
MCCONNELL: he's right, terri... it's no use.

TERRI: releases her thumb from the toggle control. 
HER SUIT JETS: stop firing.
TERRI: drifts, staring towards woody.

WOODY: okay, honey...? you gotta go back now. 
TERRI: the i do.

WOODY: what are you doing? 
TERRI: i'm gonna jet a little closer and try again.
WOODY: terri, you spend any fuel getting closer, you won't get back, and if anyone tries to get you, they'll die too.

WOODY: honey, please go back. go back and help everyone get down to the surface. 
TERRI: i am not losing you.
WOODY: i can't let you do it. i can't. i'm sorry.

WOODY: i love you, terri. how i love you. 
TERRI: woody, nooooooo...!!!
TERRI: woody, oh woody, please no!

MCCONNELL: he's gone. 
MCCONNELL: please, terri... we need you.

TERRI: is worse. a thousand-yard stare. she's in shock. 
MCCONNELL: knows he has to occupy them. speaks softly.
MCCONNELL: phil? hey, phil...?
MCCONNELL: we're going in blind. we'll deploy the chutes by laptop. i need to get on the data bus, put in a software patch, and try to soften this tin can's landing. i could use your help with the patch.
MCCONNELL: that's great. good job. hey, terri, i was wondering. think maybe we could rig some kind of seatbelts out of those cargo straps?

NEW CAPCOM: ray...? we've got some new data, just coming in. 
NEW CAPCOM: we just -- it doesn't make any sense. we're not sure how to read this.
BECK: data?
NEW CAPCOM: yes sir. telemetry reports the remo has left its orbit and reached the martian surface.
BECK: crashed?
NEW CAPCOM: no sir. under power.
BECK: when?
NEW CAPCOM: sixty-three minutes after mars recovery went off-line. sir, the graph reads like a controlled descent. but that doesn't make any --
BECK: they used the remo as a lander.
BECK: it's mcconnell, it's got to be! nobody else could have pulled this off. son of a they're alive.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: better? 
PHIL: right.
MCCONNELL: terri, let's see if that oxygen still is operational. phil, you better check out the erv. i'll take the hab. if you find luke's --
MCCONNELL: just keep in touch.

MCCONNELL: luke, it's me! jim mcconnell! 
LUKE: you're not here!
MCCONNELL: luke, it's jim!
LUKE: no, no, you're not... you can't be here.
MCCONNELL: your wife is debra! your son is bobby! you were reading treasure island with him...!
MCCONNELL: don't hurt him!
LUKE: phil... terri... luke looks with incomprehension at mcconnell.
LUKE: jim... i don't understand. you're not supposed to be here... why are you here? where's woody?
MCCONNELL: he didn't make it luke.
LUKE: oh no.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: luke, what happened here? 
LUKE: we fired the radar. it came. they all died.
MCCONNELL: what came?
LUKE: they all died, but i was spared. why? had to be for a reason. then, all of a sudden, i knew why i was spared.
LUKE: so somebody would be left to figure out the secret.
MCCONNELL: luke, we still don't understand.
LUKE: come. comecomecome.
PHIL: is it just me? or is he about two mealpacks short of a picnic?
TERRI: long term exposure to low gravity can have an adverse impact on the brain. he could be suffering from a form of asphyxia.
MCCONNELL: or maybe his whole crew died and he's been marooned alone on mars. let's give him time to adjust.
PHIL: greatgreatgreat.

LUKE: so... let me be sure i understand this. your ship blew up, with all its supplies. then you emptied the cargo out of the remo, and it was totalled on landing. you've got no food, no water, no spare oxygen, nothing but what i see here...? 
LUKE: what kinda rescue mission is this?
MCCONNELL: that kind.
PHIL: check it out. new nav boards for the erv. i got four round-trip tickets, baby, right in here.
LUKE: four.
LUKE: terri... i'm so sorry. he was a good man.
TERRI: thanks, luke.
LUKE: when there's time, we'll talk.
LUKE: this way.

LUKE: ...when i came to and dug myself out of the sand, my faceplate was cracked. leaking badly. i barely made it back to base. it was weeks before i could work up the nerve to go back out there and look for their... 
LUKE: renee was the only one i could find. but it didn't seem right, somehow, to dig just one grave.
MCCONNELL: has it been blowing like this for a while? we saw a big storm from space. but micker said it was turning south.
LUKE: if it holds course.
MCCONNELL: this -- whatever it was -- this force. you say it came directly out of the top of the mountain?
LUKE: you don't believe me. that's okay. but i'm not crazy, jim.
MCCONNELL: what did you mean by its "secret?" what secret?
LUKE: you better see for yourselves.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

LUKE: see, where they made their mistake was, they must've planned for it to be visible from earth... 
MCCONNELL: who's "they"?
LUKE: don't you understand? hundreds of millions of years have gone by. you've got erosion, sand storms, lava flows, meteor impacts -- hell, in that much time, the whole surface would've changed. so no wonder we never saw it before. well, i mean, we saw it, but not like they meant us too. too much dirt on it.
TERRI: saw what?
LUKE: this.

PHIL: jesus... 
TERRI: what is that...?
LUKE: i don't know. but whatever it is, somebody built it. and not us.
MCCONNELL: what about the sound? that signal you heard before the explosion?
LUKE: good, jim, good. that's the key.

LUKE: hear the pauses? that's what made me realize it's a pattern -- a repeating pattern. 
MCCONNELL: mathematical?
LUKE: that's what i thought. there are distinct blocks in the pattern, and within each block the tones come in groups of three. threethreethree. for months i struggled to analyze it, trying different constructs... then i thought about dimensions.
MCCONNELL: x-y-z coordinates...
LUKE: right! three groups equals three dimensions... so i tried assigning different graphic values to each block, group and tone. and finally i got... this.

PHIL: my is that what i think it is? 
TERRI: dna... that's a model of dna!
LUKE: you see it, too. thank i was afraid i was just suffering from a form of asphyxia.
PHIL: so, okay, so -- somebody left this thing here, somebody -- other than human. but what the is it?
LUKE: my guess is, it's a signature. a self-portrait of whatever species created the face.
MCCONNELL: but that dna looks human.
TERRI: no way. it's missing the last pair of chromosomes. see?
MCCONNELL: yeah, but it's close. close.
TERRI: the difference between a man and an ape is less than three percent of genetic material. but that three percent gives you mozart. einstein.
PHIL: or jack the ripper.

MCCONNELL: it's been a long day. let's get a couple hours sleep, then tackle this thing when we're fresher. phil, your first priority will be to get the motherboards over to the erv. concentrate on getting communications up first. soon as we've got the juice, we'll send a packet to micker, tell them luke's ok, and that... everything else that's happened. the rest of us will take an inventory of supplies, see where we stand. okay? 
TERRI: c'mon. there's a pair of scissors in my medkit.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: how do you feel? 
LUKE: like i just got back my other three percent.
TERRI: the backup generator is salvageable, and two of the solar panels. i'm pretty sure i can get the oxygen still back into production, too. so we're not in such bad shape, considering.
LUKE: good work, terri.
MCCONNELL: look at that. phil's idea of absolute essentials.

MCCONNELL: it's not a signature. 
LUKE: what?
MCCONNELL: that noise from the face... it's not a signature. it's a test.

MCCONNELL: it's asking us for the right answer. it wants us to put in the missing pair of chromosomes. 
LUKE: but why?
MCCONNELL: to prove that we're human.
LUKE: we fired radar into that thing. concentrated sound waves...
MCCONNELL: which it interpreted as a wrong answer... yes! it's like a, a security alarm. when it gets an incorrect response, it defends itself.

PHIL: so what happens when it gets the right answer? 
MCCONNELL: i don't know. but we've got to find out. can you work this the other way? figure out which tones would be equivalent to the missing chromosomes? then dub them into your recording of the signal?
LUKE: i think so, yes.
MCCONNELL: what about the radar gun? will it accept that input? can we transmit a completed signal back to the face?
PHIL: whoa, whoa, hold on, jim. what if you're wrong? whoever goes out there... i mean, what if you're wrong? three people have already died over that thing.
TERRI: four.
MCCONNELL: terri, if we leave here without getting some answers, they all died in vain.
TERRI: we just don't know enough about that -- that thing out there to take any more chances.
MCCONNELL: what are we here for, if not to take chances...?
MCCONNELL: this means we're not alone. it means we're on the brink of the greatest discovery in mankind's history. but we've still got to prove it. who knows when someone else will get back here? or if they ever will? you know what congress is like. they'll say it's too dangerous, too much loss of life, let's go back to unmanned flights. we could be the last explorers to come here for decades. we're it, guys. we're it.
LUKE: we don't have to go out there. there's a better way.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: how close do we need to get? 
LUKE: i'm not sure. maybe we better stop by that boulder.

PHIL: oh my 
LUKE: it worked... it worked!
MCCONNELL: check for radiation.
LUKE: normal. seismic... normal. anemometer steady. no sign of the vortex.
PHIL: i don't know what we did, but guys -- does that look to you like a hostile gesture?
TERRI: no. more like an invitation.
LUKE: or another test...
MCCONNELL: luke, the four-man rover. does it still work?
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

MCCONNELL: how long before it hits? 
LUKE: an hour? maybe less.
MCCONNELL: how bad?
LUKE: a storm like that? it could go planetary. and last a year.
LUKE: it'll sock us in, jim. we won't be able to take off. if that happens, with what few supplies we've got left...? we'll starve to death.
MCCONNELL: phil, how much longer to prep the

PHIL: maybe forty-five minutes. it'll be tight, but we can make it. 
MCCONNELL: then there's still time for us to get out there and back.
MCCONNELL: stay here. continue the repair. if something goes wrong, you get out of here before that storm hits.
PHIL: go back... alone?
MCCONNELL: if we're not back in forty-five minutes, i want you to prep and launch. that's 1950 hours.
PHIL: jim --
MCCONNELL: it's not a suggestion, it's an order. you understand?
PHIL: i understand. but --
MCCONNELL: you understand what?
PHIL: if you're not back by 1950, i prep and launch.
MCCONNELL: let's go.

MCCONNELL: phil, do you read me? 
PHIL: yeah, jim. your signal's breaking up a little in the storm, but i read you.

MCCONNELL: we're at the face. we're gonna need a few minutes here. same deadline, launch at 1950. with or without us. do you copy? 
PHIL: copy that.
TERRI: jim, are you sure you want to do this?
MCCONNELL: i'm not sure of anything anymore. but i didn't come a hundred million miles just to turn back in the last ten feet.

MCCONNELL: surface seems firm and level. 
LUKE: roger that. texture is smooth.
TERRI: i've got good footing and no obstructions. let's check our --
TERRI: it's solid again! we're trapped.
MCCONNELL: don't move! keep this orientation.
MCCONNELL: phil? phil, can you still hear me?

PHIL: computers are online! ready to load software. but guys -- we're losing visibility here. 
PHIL: guys...? jim? luke? terri? is anyone there...? no answer. phil stares at his radio in dread.
PHIL: don't leave me.

TERRI: jim, what're you doing? you'll depressurize! 
MCCONNELL: i don't think so.
LUKE: jim, seal it!
MCCONNELL: no. that was air going into my suit, not out. look at your own suits -- they're not rigid anymore. we've got pressure in here.
TERRI: above mars atmospheric? that's impossible.
MCCONNELL: we're millions of miles from earth and we're inside a gigantic white face. what's impossible?
TERRI: there's six psi in here... nitrogen and oxygen.
LUKE: otherwise known as air?
TERRI: hey, there may be some lethal trace gasses i haven't picked up yet, or... or... oh, the with it.

MCCONNELL: is that what i think it is? 
LUKE: yeah. it's mars.
SUDDENLY A HUGE ASTEROID: tumbles through space towards the planet...
TERRI: oh my

TERRI: her voice is soft. 
TERRI: earth, when it was still pangaea. before the continents separated.

MCCONNELL: they're us. we're them... 
LUKE: we're martians...?
MCCONNELL: that's what she means.
TERRI: oh my the cambrian explosion.
TERRI: almost six hundred million years ago, there was a sudden expansion of life on earth. the first multi-celled plants and animals appeared. no one has ever understood why...
LUKE: they seeded earth.

PHIL: ...in, please. can you... me? 
TERRI: phil, we're here! we read you.
PHIL: thank listen, this storm is really -- -- few more minutes, i can't -- you've gotta get back to the ship!
TERRI: phil? phil...?

MCCONNELL: we are in a ship. this is a ship. and the countdown has already started. 
LUKE: he's right.
TERRI: then let's get the out of here!
LUKE: jim...
LUKE: jim, we gotta go.
MCCONNELL: i'm not coming with you.
TERRI: what?
TERRI: what are you talking about? we've got to get home.
MCCONNELL: that's where i'm going. don't you see? that's what all this is for. you were right terri. this is an invitation. to follow them. to follow them home.
MCCONNELL: i have to go. this is the mission now. to find out who we are. isn't that why we came here? like maggie said, "to stand on a new world and look beyond it to the next one."
MCCONNELL: you know, when you think about it -- i wasn't even supposed to be here -- all the accidents, everything that got us to this point, it's just... it's just... i just know it's right.
MCCONNELL: i'm okay. i know what i'm doing. but you're running out of time. you've gotta get back to the erv and get off this planet. now please go. luke steps closer, looking at his old friend.
LUKE: i once felt like i was taking your turn. but now i think maybe you're taking mine. guess i'm a little jealous.
LUKE: thanks for saving my life.
MCCONNELL: my pleasure.
TERRI: i wish woody were here to see this. he would've wanted to go too, jim.
MCCONNELL: he's here, terri. we wouldn't have made it without him.
TERRI: take care, jim.
LUKE: hey, jim...?
MCCONNELL: yeah?
LUKE: have a great ride.
MCCONNELL: always do.
MCCONNELL: looks down at what terri gave him.
IT'S WOODY'S NECK CHAIN: with the little flash gordon rocketship.
MCCONNELL: grips this tightly as he looks up.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

LUKE: phil? phil, do you read? he's not reading. 
TERRI: i can barely read you. let's get the out of here!

PHIL: is anyone there? can anyone read me? 
CLOSE ON HIS COMPUTER DISPLAY: which reads: "pre-launch checklist."

HIS GLOVED HANDS: slide helplessly across the smooth surface. 
MCCONNELL: looks down again.
THE COBALT LIQUID: is up to his knees. now his thighs...

TERRI: no good! we're driving blind. 
LUKE: i'll try to keep on a straight line! it's our only chance.
TERRI: don't worry! i've worked with phil for four years! i know jim gave him a direct order, but he won't leave without us.

PHIL: this is erv, do you read? erv to rover, do you read...? 
PHIL: this is erv, do you read?
PHIL: uh, phil's not here right now. he left for earth five minutes ago. please leave your message at the beep.

PHIL: where's jim? 
TERRI: he got another ride.
LUKE: tell you on the way. let's go!
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

PUSHING IN QUICKLY ON THIS.: we see three figures in the cockpit. 
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

TERRI: dear look at that. 
PHIL: is that him?
LUKE: godspeed jim mcconnell.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.
OMITTED: sequence omitted from original script.

