speaker1: run downstairs and give your dad a hug. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: he'll be gone for his birthday.
speaker3: can we have a party for him while he's gone?
speaker1: i hope you're showered and ready for school!

speaker1: stick it up your ass! have a nice day. guster! 
speaker2: this has got to stop!
speaker1: he escaped. he's going back in.
speaker2: does it give you some sort of perverse pleasure to expose your...penis in plain view of my sixteen year-old daughter?
speaker1: there are no windows facing my...exposure.
speaker2: george, this is the third time.
speaker1: the plumber's due out on friday.
speaker2: you'll have to explain that to the police.
speaker1: you were the only neighbor i could tolerate.
speaker2: i did warn you.
speaker1: my life is a warning. i just can't figure out for what.
speaker1: colleen, how hard was it for you to get your head outside that window far enough to see my dick?

speaker1: sam broke his closet. 
speaker2: i don't have a clue anymore. i wish you'd talk to him. he needs a man.
speaker3: his father is a man.
speaker2: a man he respects.
speaker4: thanks for talking about me behind my back...useful in court.
speaker3: are you wearing eye shadow?
speaker4: no.
speaker3: take it off.
speaker3: do it now!
speaker4: if i walk out the door, who's gonna be here tonight for the follow through?
speaker4: have a nice flight.
speaker5: queer.
speaker2: what did you say?
speaker5: dad said it first.
speaker1: i get chocolate cake for your birthday.
speaker3: are your hands clean?

speaker1: dude, nice look. 
speaker2: i saw your dad this morning.
speaker3: been thinking?
speaker4: no.
speaker1: forget him!
speaker3: two hours a week for three-hundred cash. the whole summer. do the math. they consider that a hatchback or a station wagon? oh, that isn't yours anyway, is it?
speaker5: i was in total rem, man!

speaker1: done...close to done? 
speaker2: i'm doing the grass.
speaker1: the grass. who said grass?

speaker1: i was going to start monday. 
speaker2: he likes the look of the computer models, anyway. you take too long. after you mow the grass, would you mind bringing the house to my office? i have a presentation to make.

speaker1: i wouldn't make a habit of it. 
speaker2: okay.

speaker1: you'll real logs if you keep eating wood. 
speaker2: hi, mr. nelson.
speaker2: sorry i got you into trouble.
speaker1: i'll survive.
speaker2: does sam have any friends?
speaker1: he must.
speaker2: he seems lonely.
speaker1: are you his friend?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: marilyn manson...and i guess he's into guys. i hate nose rings. and the blue eye shadow thing really isn't working.
speaker3: thought i'd run over the list.
speaker2: this is such a street of whiners.
speaker3: from tuesday to yesterday, not including monday or today. okay...mrs. dokos is repeatedly running over her lawn. the corliss' have attributed the increase in rat population in their environs to the state of your...structure.
speaker2: ipo's caused the rat population on this street.
speaker3: and of course the beck's, with the...
speaker2: it could have been a squirt gun.
speaker3: you've been good this week.
speaker1: you forgot david dokos and tom and barbara.
speaker3: mr. dokos calls animal control for guster and i was out here on the other. do you mind?
speaker2: are you guys' friends?
speaker3: we've known each other since grade school.
speaker2: i mean, but did you both go camping on weekends? listen to music? together? talk on the phone? george doesn't answer and kurt keeps working.
speaker3: hunted rabbit in the hills.
speaker1: i aimed high.
speaker3: we just weren't very much alike, i guess. i don't know. i liked your dad more than i liked you.
speaker2: i wouldn't want you as a friend.
speaker3: george just never really...aimed that high. even with not hitting a rabbit. i knew you were doing that, by the way. that's why i stopped doing it with you. you were no fun. it was always like you were frightened. quiet and boring.
speaker2: funny how he's the architect and you're just a loud mouth cop.
speaker3: he builds models for architects. his dad, on the other hand, was the real deal. designed and built the coolest houses i've ever seen.
speaker1: was bankrupt and dead before i was twenty.
speaker3: left you this place.
speaker1: it was in my name so he wouldn't lose it. he stole it from everyone that deserved it by putting me on title.
speaker3: do you know what i'd give to have this! forget how i got it! i can't afford dirt in this town. i live in riverside, goddammitt and you get to in the ocean. kurt stops working and steps back.
speaker3: your kid was down around diver's cover again, smoking pot. i didn't write him up...told him i wouldn't tell you...
speaker1: thanks for telling me.
speaker3: at least your father tried, george.

speaker1: i could be anyone. 
speaker2: then why do you stay you?
speaker1: you should lock your doors.
speaker2: ring the bell before you try the door.
speaker2: did sam call to tell you he wouldn't be over this weekend?
speaker1: you let him pierce his nose?
speaker2: lock the door behind you.
speaker1: where is he?
speaker2: where he always is.
speaker1: not that i don't trust you.
speaker1: i should have knocked.
speaker2: what kind of a mother can't stand her son?
speaker1: i don't know.

speaker1: marco! 
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: i'm not cheating! i'm not looking!
speaker3: what are you doing?
speaker4: he doesn't answer.
speaker3: he never answers.
speaker4: why does he have a lock on his door?
speaker3: because he put the lock on! do you think i told him he could have a nose ring?! why do you ask me everything you should ask him!? i don't know anything, anymore!
speaker3: you climb up there and tell him what he can and can't do. take him for the summer, okay? whip him into shape. cut his hair. make him smile. let him hate you for a while! you're too late for heroics, george.

speaker1: you need every brain cell you've got. 
speaker2: leave me alone!
speaker3: i don't know what to do, anymore. take him. you take him. you're such a good father.
speaker2: what are you doing in my room?
speaker3: i didn't go in your room.
speaker2: i locked the door! get out! i locked the door! get out!

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: is there a...
speaker3: george, have a seat! i've got juice.

speaker1: a bird caught me. 
speaker2: orange juice...croissant?
speaker1: i'm good, thanks.
speaker2: what are you on?
speaker1: pardon me?
speaker2: how much weight have you lost?
speaker1: oh...nothing. thirty pounds. i just haven't been very hungry.
speaker2: how's your wife?
speaker1: when we divorce a decade ago, she was very, very angry. now she's just hostile.
speaker2: right...she married...what was he?
speaker1: he buys and sells the world.
speaker2: peter webber! right. quite the spotlight on that guy.
speaker1: i did tell you, didn't i? that i'd be ready to start the berlin model today?
speaker2: well, that's sort of...you're sure you're not hungry?
speaker2: this isn't me. we can show clients endless options, change anything in a matter of hours on the computer. but you won't change.
speaker1: typing and clicking myself to renderings isn't why i started building models.
speaker2: all of us are typing and clicking, george. whether we want to, or not.
speaker1: i'm not.
speaker2: which is why we bid out a quarter of our projects. it doesn't make a lot of sense anymore to want what we don't have and don't want what we do.
speaker1: i've been here twenty years.
speaker2: maybe that's too long.
speaker1: maybe...?
speaker2: that's too long.
speaker2: listen, they decided on a week a year severance, but i got them to twenty-six. that's six months salary, george. medical and everything for six months. you can learn all you need to on the computer long before that. maybe find a job closer to home.
speaker1: my wife left me because i wasn't...very emotional. i kept trying to explain that my father sucked all the emotion from me. drunks do that, sometimes. make their kids afraid. make them unwilling to express themselves.
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: how old are you?
speaker2: forty.
speaker1: we were probably in school together. you went to berkley?
speaker2: class of eighty-six! i didn't know you were there.
speaker1: i was a sophomore when i got the call my parents were dead.
speaker1: my dad had a blood alcohol level of .18. a little high. drove right into oncoming traffic. killed my mother with him. a lady in another car. hurt her daughter. a five-year old girl. i think about her still.
speaker2: listen...maybe i can get you a year.
speaker1: i hate this job.
speaker2: what are you talking about? you love your job.
speaker1: from the day i started...to today. can't stand it. bryan is perplexed as george stands.
speaker2: then it sounds like i'm doing you a favor.
speaker1: it may sound that way, but i react out of fear. my life has nothing to do with what i like or don't like. you haven't been listening, have you?
speaker2: i didn't know there would be a quiz, george.
speaker1: for everything.
speaker2: well, i feel better about this now.
speaker1: good. i was hoping for that.
speaker1: i've got one favor to ask.
speaker2: what can i do for you, george?
speaker1: i built my first model here when i was twenty. there are hundreds of them on shelves around the office. twenty years of my life. i was wondering if i might be able to pick a few to keep, to take home? only the ones that really mean something to me.
speaker2: oh, well...those are...i mean, we don't get to keep our work. i could maybe ask them if you could choose one. but, you know, frankly george, you were the best. computer models can't begin to match the beauty you gave yours. they're a part of this firm. they inspire me. i go out there and sometimes just stare at something i've designed. it amazes me. i would miss that too much. look, i may be going out on a limb, but you go out there and look them over, every single one of them and pick the one you like the best and take it with you. just run it by me first, just in case, you know...but i'm sure it'll be okay.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: well, it's the least i can do.
speaker1: yes, it is.

speaker1: mother of not my house! 
speaker2: oh, please, please, no!
speaker3: uh...mr. burke would like a word with you, george.
speaker4: oh...okay.
speaker3: in his office. when you're able.
speaker4: thank you.

speaker1: i'll take this one, if that's okay? 
speaker1: thank you for going out on a limb and allowing me one.
speaker1: you're a great architect and a miserable human being.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker2: oh,
speaker2: you're not even an architect and you're a miserable human being.
speaker1: you're right. you win.

speaker1: that took care of the pain? 
speaker2: i could kiss you.
speaker2: no food. i'm painless.
speaker2: what would you do if you had three or four months to live?
speaker3: i'd eat a lot of red meat.
speaker2: good for you.
speaker3: what would you do?
speaker2: i'd build a house.
speaker3: what kind of house?
speaker2: you know what mortise and tenon is?
speaker2: i've got every part of it ready. it's like a jig saw puzzle...all in pieces now, just waiting to make sense. i've been through design and review...the planning commission, city council.
speaker3: no one's really said four months is all you have, have they?
speaker2: stage four pancreatic cancer. they haven't even pretended to offer treatment. you tell me, when would you start eating red meat?
speaker3: can you build a house in four months?
speaker2: i can die trying.
speaker3: good for you.
speaker2: i haven't been touched in years.
speaker3: i'm sorry, i don't know what that was.
speaker2: a handshake, or you know, someone pats you on your back through clothes. doctors, people who have to touch you. but not by people who want to.
speaker3: no. a friend... your mother? everybody gets touched by someone they love.
speaker2: isn't that weird? i mean, i dated a little bit after my divorce, for four or five years. six years. i know when my son was younger...maybe when he was ten or eleven even, he'd run up and wrap his arms around me.
speaker3: oh i'm married.
speaker4: i'm hungry.
speaker2: i'm touched.

speaker1: i called everyone, everywhere! you just vanished! you could be dead! 
speaker2: thanks for waking me up. picking me up. you're loud today.
speaker1: you're inconsiderate and absolutely devoid of emotion!
speaker2: you're the most beautiful woman i have ever known in my life.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm not talking just physically. even your anger is perfect.

speaker1: i didn't think you'd know i went missing. 
speaker2: you didn't think someone from your office would call and tell me you wrecked the entire building and threatened people with a baseball bat?!
speaker1: a blueprint spool.
speaker2: where have you been for a week?!
speaker1: four days. i left to think.
speaker2: what did you do with your dog?
speaker1: kurt's been feeding him.
speaker2: but you can't call me while you think?
speaker1: i wasn't thinking. look, i'm sorry i didn't think to call you while i thought...i think.
speaker1: i need to talk to you.
speaker2: why would they tow your truck?
speaker1: i was parked in day parking.
speaker2: why call me?
speaker1: i'm going to tear down the shack and build my house.
speaker2: you've been saying that for twenty years. while we were dating, you said it.
speaker1: there's nothing anymore to stop me.
speaker2: money?
speaker1: severance pay. and i'm going to cash in my life insurance policy.
speaker2: how many years did i live with your beams and boards? first in the garage, then in the living room. we're going to do it, robin. next year. next year. salvaged floorboards from a house in pasadena. doors from a church in new hampshire...
speaker1: i love those doors.
speaker2: where will you live?
speaker1: the garage.
speaker2: look, i wasn't serious about you taking sam, so you don't have to get into any actual construction to get out of it.
speaker1: when's school over?
speaker2: friday...god, i hate the thought of him home all day.
speaker1: i'll be by saturday to pick him up.
speaker2: he doesn't want to spend the weekends with you anymore.
speaker1: not for the weekend. for the summer.
speaker2: you and sam are going to live in a garage without plumbing for the summer?
speaker1: the garage is plumbed. i'll put in a toilet. we'll survive.
speaker2: thank you for at least sounding sincere.
speaker1: sounding? i need help. he's cheap labor.
speaker2: one of you would end up dead.
speaker1: at least we'll have a house to show for it.
speaker2: forget it, really. i'll survive.
speaker1: i want him with me.
speaker2: no, you don't. trust me.
speaker1: i want sam for the summer.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: hey, hey!
speaker2: i'm married.

speaker1: the whole summer, man. party in tahoe. 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: it'll just be my brother the dweeb on weekends. all we gotta do is sand and paint the cabin, dude. my dad's gonna let me use the boat and my charm is gonna let me use my rod. income village is the place to hook up with hump.
speaker2: i'll ask.
speaker1: hey, it beats letting town folk go down on you for the summer.
speaker2: i never said anything. i haven't done anything.
speaker1: i know what the deal is. josh is a pimp. i'm not stupid.
speaker2: you don't know what the deal is. there is no deal.

speaker1: hi, mr. nelson. 
speaker2: alyssa.
speaker1: why have you put a toilet and a bed in your garage?
speaker2: i'm living here while i build another house.
speaker1: is that legal?
speaker2: don't you have school?
speaker1: nope.
speaker1: are these clean? george is alarmed. guster licks alyssa's ear.
speaker2: what's today?
speaker1: monday.
speaker2: my keys.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker2: nothing. i cut myself.
speaker2: i had them in my pocket.
speaker1: i'm not shaving my legs or pits this summer, i've decided.
speaker1: paula cole isn't a vertical kisser.
speaker2: make the bed for me, would you? i gotta run.
speaker3: what are you, forty?
speaker2: i forgot where i put my keys.
speaker3: and you thought they might be under her dress?
speaker1: i was just showing him my hair.
speaker1: i think you need to rethink what you think of me.
speaker2: her leg hair.

speaker1: mrs. webber is in the backyard. 
speaker2: and sam?
speaker1: in his room, packing.
speaker2: oh...good.

speaker1: sam! 
speaker1: ready? sam shrugs and returns to finish his packing.
speaker1: i think you'll have fun this summer.
speaker1: don't forget your headphones.
speaker1: would you mind turning it down?
speaker1: it won't all be work, you know?
speaker1: it won't be all work, you know!
speaker2: i heard you already!
speaker1: your mom and the boys can drop by anytime.
speaker2: to check up on me?
speaker1: i'll be around to check up on you.
speaker2: why would you be there?
speaker1: because i live there.
speaker2: you live in cory's parents' cabin?

speaker1: no way!!! 
speaker1: you liar! you stupid liar! i hate you!
speaker2: did you tell him he's spending the summer with me?
speaker1: no i'm not!
speaker3: what was i supposed to do? when you didn't show up saturday, i tried to call. your phone isn't working.
speaker2: i don't have a phone.
speaker3: i drove over and you were gone.
speaker2: i can't leave the house?
speaker3: last time you were gone for a week!
speaker2: did you tell him he was spending the summer with me?
speaker3: no. i was going to let you do that.
speaker2: he's not spending the summer in tahoe.
speaker1: who are you, anyway? i don't even know you.
speaker2: you'll know me by the time we're through.
speaker1: i'm not going!
speaker2: i'll get your bag.
speaker1: mom, tell him i'm not going. you already promised me!
speaker2: you have everything?
speaker3: i did say he could go.
speaker2: let's go.
speaker1: i'm not going!
speaker2: you don't have a choice.
speaker1: mom...please.
speaker3: george --
speaker2: he's not spending the entire summer with another kid in tahoe. if he leaves, i will follow him up there and i will drag him home by his nose ring. he can hate me. you can hate me. he can try to kill me while i sleep. you can call the police. you can call your husband or your attorney, but sam is spending the summer with me. he's my son. he's sixteen. that's it. sam is crying now -- snot's running down his nose. robin is shocked by george's forcefulness.
speaker4: can we hate you?
speaker2: you can do anything you want.
speaker2: go get in the truck, sam.
speaker1: go yourself!
speaker2: your nose ring comes out of your nose. if you've got them in your nipples, they come out, too. and there's no make-up at my house. no glue sniffing. huffing. no pills, no grass.
speaker1: if you hit me, i'll call the police.
speaker2: you've worn out your welcome at this house, sam. i won't ever hit you. this may well be the worst three months of your life, but you've earned it. so, pick up your suitcase and go get in the truck. now.
speaker1: i'll hate you forever.
speaker2: you can't even begins to know how much i hate my father. think of it as a family tradition.

speaker1: sam? i'm...for like three minutes? 
speaker1: that's okay. if i break my back, daddy's gonna buy you a naval ring. no reaction from sam.
speaker1: and if that naval ring don't fit, daddy's gonna rub you down with the sun screen.
speaker1: i want you wearing sun block. and i want you down here to help me. now.
speaker1: it works on guster.

speaker1: well, get over here, then, stupid. 
speaker1: are you afraid of heights, guster?
speaker1: the fall probably wouldn't kill me, anyway.
speaker2: thinking of jumping?
speaker1: pushing.
speaker2: only jump after you hear the wave crash against the rock. the water will take you out. let it. swim a little north and you'll see the sand.
speaker2: first time i did it, younger than you, i thought i'd break my neck and just sort of float to catalina. you don't always get what you wish for, sam.
speaker1: oh,
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: are you totally insane?! 
speaker2: i almost saw catalina.

speaker1: guster! 
speaker1: you're so busted, dude.
speaker1: where's my dinner, huh?
speaker1: i'm hungry! where's my dinner? who ate my dinner? huh? who's in trouble now?
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker1: they're trying to make me spend the summer here. i'm leaving in the morning.
speaker2: where to?
speaker1: i'm supposed to be in tahoe.
speaker2: your dad's really gonna build his house?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: well, if you don't go, i guess i'll see you. alyssa stands. sam is clearly shy around her.
speaker2: you should stay.
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: where's your dad?
speaker1: he jumped into the ocean.
speaker2: tell him i said "hi".

speaker1: i'm not taking a dump with you in here. 
speaker1: my brothers say it's the worst smell they've ever smelled.
speaker1: i think you have to have a door between where you cook and where you crap. like even in the bush, tribal people and like that have a place for both. it's like a law.
speaker2: which side of the bed do you want?
speaker2: just kidding. the sofa's a pullout.
speaker1: probably in the bible.
speaker2: goodnight.
speaker1: i have to take a dump.

speaker1: have you got sunscreen on? 
speaker2: it's about time this shack is torn down.
speaker3: oh, hello george.
speaker1: guess how many low-income apartments the city approved for this lot? tom and barbara react by trying not to react.
speaker1: come on...ballpark figure.

speaker1: what are you doing?! 
speaker2: i warned you yesterday.
speaker1: don't touch me! you can't touch me!
speaker3: hey, you stayed.
speaker2: rub him down, please.
speaker1: he's a freak.
speaker3: you look better without make-up.
speaker1: i can't even take a shower here.
speaker3: come over to my house whenever you want. i'll tell my mom.
speaker1: i might not stay, anyway.
speaker3: i'll get your back.
speaker1: no. that's okay.
speaker3: have you ever had anyone but your mom or dad put it on for you?
speaker3: it's weird how different it is. lay down.
speaker3: do you remember me from when you lived here?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: your dad dated my mom after her divorce.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: i wanted him to marry her.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: turn over.
speaker3: josh and i are going to south coast. wanna ride? maybe see a movie?
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker3: don't forget your front.
speaker2: she's pretty...for a girl.

speaker1: do you ever get like the slightest inkling that you might want to help me instead of doing absolutely nothing? 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: get the inkling, sam. i'm getting tired of your attitude.
speaker2: i hate turkey.
speaker1: no you don't.
speaker1: i want you to take out your nose ring and leave it out.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: it bugs me.
speaker2: you snore at night. that bugs me. can i take you out?
speaker1: your brothers are right. it was the most god-awful smell i've ever had my nose around.
speaker3: thought you guys might be hungry.
speaker1: we're fine. turkey sandwiches.
speaker3: well, for later then.
speaker3: it makes me sad.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i used to live here.
speaker1: but you hated four out of the five you did.
speaker3: i was here six years. and i only hated two.
speaker1: which?
speaker3: the first and the last.
speaker1: i don't even like turkey sandwiches. what kind of pizza?
speaker3: sam's favorite.
speaker3: sure you don't want any?
speaker3: you're too thin, george. from what you used to be, anyway.
speaker1: why the first and the last?
speaker3: the first because i wasn't sure you really loved me...the last because i wasn't sure i really loved you.
speaker1: i was up on the roof this morning, tearing it down and it struck me as strong as anything ever has. that i'm happy today.
speaker3: what have you been before today?
speaker1: it was just that, maybe the way the sun struck the ocean, the sound of the waves. it was simple, whatever it was. then i started thinking about the last time i felt this good. it's been a long time.
speaker3: do you remember?
speaker1: the only time i can think of for sure, i was holding onto sam in the ocean, saving him from the waves.
speaker1: you head was pressed against my chest. i could feel your heart racing. and i remember i kissed your hair.
speaker3: we have it on video! was that when? my parents were down for his sixth birthday! i remember that.
speaker2: i have to go.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: i'm fine. nothing. i'll drop by your lunch tomorrow.
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: i'm gonna take a walk. i need some money.
speaker1: you'll have money when you work.
speaker2: you're so predictable.
speaker2: you haven't been happy in ten years?

speaker1: no one would blame me if i left! 
speaker2: i'd blame you. i want you here.
speaker1: i'm not doing it!
speaker2: it'll be fine.
speaker1: why don't you just beg some money off my dad and move into something decent with a real kitchen and a real bathroom?
speaker2: i'd rather sell my nuts to a castrati.
speaker2: i don't beg.
speaker1: and i don't take a shower in the middle of the yard.
speaker2: i can promise you complete privacy.
speaker1: you can't promise me anything! you don't have anything to promise! you live in a garage! you don't have cable! you're not hooked up to the internet because you don't even own a computer! you don't have a job!
speaker2: this will save you from prying eyes.

speaker1: if you had a stupid phone or i could use your truck, mom would give me some money. 
speaker2: you'll have money when you work for it.

speaker1: is alyssa home? 
speaker2: she's out with a friend.
speaker1: oh...do you know when she'll be home?
speaker2: she didn't really say.
speaker1: oh...okay.
speaker2: sam?
speaker1: uh huh.
speaker2: i didn't recognize you!
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: alyssa said you don't even have plumbing over there.
speaker1: not a shower.

speaker1: the traffic. were we going out to dinner? 
speaker2: we've eaten.
speaker1: is lois still here? i'm starved.
speaker2: i'll make you something.
speaker1: did someone call to tell you i'd be late?

speaker1: bro, i need you tonight. 
speaker2: i locked the door.
speaker1: it'll take you like twenty, thirty minutes.
speaker2: does alyssa know?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: you got any weed?
speaker1: you got the money?
speaker1: alyssa sent me up to see if you wanted to hang around and watch a movie with her and her mom.

speaker1: ah! oh.... 
speaker2: i know there's an explanation.
speaker1: no hot water.
speaker2: mr. dokos called to complain that you and a boy are squatting illegally in the garage of your house.
speaker1: check the permits. it was built as a guesthouse. it's a legally rentable unit grandfathered when south laguna was incorporated.
speaker2: now that should be illegal.

speaker1: thanks for the shower. 
speaker2: i want you both to stay.
speaker3: and candy too.
speaker4: i'm gonna give him a ride in my car.
speaker3: i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker2: come over anytime you need to, sam.
speaker1: thanks, i'd like that. thank you.

speaker1: i'm surprised he hasn't left. 
speaker2: i haven't forced him to work. i only wet him down once. why would he leave?
speaker3: i'm leaving.
speaker2: hey...hey!
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: when are you going to be back?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: well, until you know, you can't go.
speaker3: oh, okay.
speaker2: i'm not very good at it. parenting.

speaker1: i hope your ex-husband is equipped for the havoc of sam, because it seems absolutely blissful here tonight. 
speaker2: do you think it's odd your kids don't hug you?
speaker1: should i?
speaker2: it would worry me.
speaker1: if i let everything that should worry me, worry me, i'd be dead from worry.
speaker2: what would you be if you asked adam and ryan to run in now and hug you?
speaker1: i'd be you.
speaker1: i'll do it if that's what you want.

speaker1: you don't have to do a thing. just get in and get out. as quick as you can. close your eyes and think of whatever. 
speaker2: what's your deal with alyssa?
speaker1: don't even...i'm there.
speaker2: i wasn't sure.
speaker1: she wouldn't even go out with until she was sixteen. i mean, that's not even a rule, just her own thing. she like figures things out on her own and then that's it.
speaker1: if this rings, run.
speaker1: he already knows everything about what he can't do. you can tell him not to even look at you, if you want.
speaker2: i'm thinking it's too weird now.
speaker1: it beats working.
speaker1: inhale and get out.
speaker3: what did you toss into the brush?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker3: turn off the music!
speaker1: oh, it's working now.
speaker3: what did you toss into the brush?

speaker1: lunch. 
speaker2: it's not breakfast yet.
speaker1: i dreamed about your house last night.
speaker2: finished or unfinished?
speaker1: it was perfect, george. amazing. it was so real.
speaker2: didn't you once dream you could lick people well, though?
speaker1: that wasn't a dream. that was sam.
speaker2: oh...with his ear infection!
speaker1: my tongue around the edge of his ear is what cured him.
speaker2: go in there and lick his attitude.
speaker1: the antibiotics weren't working. it's what i believe, george.
speaker2: you were wrong about the first year, you know?
speaker1: i've been wrong a lot in my life.
speaker2: hindsight. it's like foresight without a future.
speaker1: i have three hours before i pick up adam and ryan. where will i be most useful?
speaker2: with your hands or your tongue?
speaker1: you're not well.

speaker1: good morning. 
speaker2: i'm late.
speaker2: ryan has a game later. he asked if you'd come and watch.
speaker3: mr. stevens?
speaker1: i've been dreading you.
speaker3: bob larson. do you happen to have an unenclosed toilet in close proximity to a kitchen?
speaker1: a violation?
speaker3: oh, yes.
speaker1: and if i enclosed it?
speaker3: an exhaust system or a window is code.
speaker1: a sink?
speaker3: allowed outside the enclosed area.
speaker4: where is it?
speaker1: a friend of yours is here.
speaker4: did you got through my pants?
speaker1: i might have a solution.
speaker4: where'd you put it?!

speaker1: i know you took it. i want it now! 
speaker2: doors.
speaker3: i hate to ask about a window.
speaker2: i flushed it down the toilet.
speaker1: no! oh my
speaker1: if i had a gun, i'd kill you.
speaker3: i assume you'll fill the...uh, window, with glass?
speaker2: if that's what it takes.
speaker1: what's in my pants is none of your business!
speaker3: i would say you're in compliance.
speaker2: i hope that makes the pain in the that called you happy.
speaker3: you and me both.
speaker2: everything about you is my business. what you smoke, what you swallow, what you sniff, it's all my business.
speaker1: i've been using since i was twelve! you're all so unbelievably stupid. you didn't give a about anything i did until now!
speaker2: i'll apologize for everything but today...today i give a
speaker1: you're too late.
speaker2: the gloves on the table are for you.
speaker1: you can't make me do a thing.
speaker2: sit down for a second.
speaker1: no.
speaker1: i'll call the cops if you touch me again!
speaker1: oh, so you're in the big now! child abuse. people go to prison for what you just did to me.
speaker2: my dad used to play a game. i never really understood what it was until after he was gone.
speaker1: i was holding for someone. that wasn't even mine.
speaker2: the game was to make me smaller than he was. no matter what. he could be almost invisible as a human being, but i had to be smaller. so if i got good grades, i was a for not playing football. if i cut my hair for him, it wasn't short enough. if i shaved it, i looked like a psycho. i never won the game. not once. and if he couldn't make me smaller with words...
speaker1: i'll have to pay him back.
speaker2: i won't ever hit you. i don't want you smaller. i want you to be happy. you're not. not here with me. not home with your mother. not up in tahoe. not alone. not anywhere. you're what i was most of my life, sam. i see it in your eyes. in your sleep. in your answer to everything. you're barely alive.
speaker1: i'm not even listening.
speaker2: you know that great thing, though? is that change can be so constant you don't even feel the difference until there is one. it can be so slow that you don't even notice that your life is better or worse, until it is. or it can just blow you away. make you something different in an instant. it happened to me.
speaker2: build this house with me.

speaker1: i have to pay back what you flushed down the toilet. i want ten dollars an hour...then i'm done. 
speaker2: it all has to come down before we can start again. knock it down.
speaker2: i hated this house from the second my father cheated everyone and put it in my name.
speaker2: twenty years of hating what you live in...what you are. this is the end of it, sam. i'm gonna build something of me here that i can be proud to give to you.
speaker1: don't. i don't want it.
speaker2: do whatever you want with it. i don't care. all i want from you is for you to remember we built this house together.
speaker1: we haven't build you're just tearing down your father.
speaker2: try it. it feels good.

speaker1: why do we have to get up and eat with you this early? 
speaker2: i just thought it would be nice.
speaker3: are you going to see sam again?
speaker2: i thought i might stop by.
speaker1: all day again?
speaker2: not all day. i'll be home after lunch.
speaker2: you can go back to bed...or lois might let you go swimming.
speaker3: i wanna be with you today.
speaker2: oh, honey. there's not much to do there. i mean, it's all work.
speaker3: we can work.
speaker2: ryan, would you rather swim or work?
speaker1: can we really help build a house?
speaker4: why is everyone up so early?

speaker1: if she's not up, you can use my shower. 
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: you're here early today.
speaker2: we're getting out of the ground today.
speaker3: huh?
speaker2: i can use your mom's.
speaker3: i'm okay.

speaker1: were you with josh when the cops arrested him? 
speaker2: not really. no. kinda. he got busted?
speaker1: his parents took his car. they're making him ride a bicycle the rest of the summer. sam can't help but like that.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: he asked me to tell you that you owe him a hundred dollars.
speaker2: he can peddle over anytime he wants to for it.
speaker1: this is serious! i don't have my license. he was my ride.
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm just here to shower.

speaker1: is this like a past time with people? go away! alyssa sets a tiny screwdriver on the vanity. 
speaker2: i've seen lots of people. it's not a big thing for me.
speaker1: hand me a towel. i'm getting out.
speaker2: i'm coming in.
speaker1: i don't want you to!
speaker2: we're not gonna do anything.
speaker1: why are you so stupid?
speaker2: why are you so uptight?
speaker1: i don't even...what do you mean? i don't even know what that means.
speaker2: it means i'm gonna shampoo my hair and stay out of your way.
speaker1: hand me a towel. hand me a towel.

speaker1: i thought you'd be up with the sun. 
speaker2: my stupid back.
speaker1: do you need anything? i'll go to the pharmacy. i have some demerol at home.
speaker2: no, i'm...thanks. i took something.
speaker1: where's sam?
speaker2: he won't use my shower. i don't get it.
speaker2: you brought your kids?
speaker1: i kind of said that maybe they could do something. help. i'm sorry. they really wanted to come. i really wanted to come and they wanted to be with me. i don't think they'll be too much trouble.
speaker2: i'll find something that won't kill them.
speaker1: or wound. let them keep their eyes and fingers.
speaker2: you're a good mother.
speaker1: do you need help?
speaker2: i think so.
speaker1: i woke up this morning at three and couldn't fall back asleep. everyday i think i see more of sam than i've seen in years.
speaker3: sam!

speaker1: hey. 
speaker1: what's that for?
speaker2: mom said i should.
speaker1: oh.
speaker2: i would have anyway.
speaker2: who are you?
speaker3: who are you?
speaker2: i'm his brother.
speaker3: i'm his friend.
speaker2: mom says we can build a house.
speaker3: hi, mr. nelson.
speaker4: hi, alyssa.
speaker1: hi, mom.
speaker5: good morning.
speaker3: hello.
speaker5: you're so nice to let sam use your shower.
speaker3: he's got a standing invitation.
speaker1: hey, ryan.
speaker6: hey.
speaker1: so, you wanna build a house?
speaker6: if we do, will it stay up?

speaker1: i brought a few of my own. 
speaker2: someone stop her!
speaker3: it's been a while.
speaker1: this was my very first slow dance.
speaker4: did you know him before you knew dad?
speaker1: since seventh grade.
speaker3: tell him how you made me fall in love with you.
speaker1: i smiled at him.
speaker3: watch out for the smile, boys.
speaker1: who's up for a dance?
speaker4: just don't hug me too tight.
speaker4: that's all you get. i'm busy today.
speaker1: let's see if you've gotten any better.
speaker3: oh, i'm worse. much, much worse.
speaker5: i'll see you tomorrow.
speaker2: when did you fall in love with my dad?
speaker1: when i found out i was pregnant with you.

speaker1: i took some of your vicodin. 
speaker2: i know. why?
speaker1: i like how it feels not to feel.
speaker2: i know the feeling.
speaker1: how do you become something you're not?
speaker2: what would you like to be?
speaker1: what i'm not.
speaker2: what are you now?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: that's not true.
speaker1: see, that's the thing...i am what i say i am.
speaker2: i know parts of who you are.
speaker1: what do you know about me?
speaker2: when you started first grade and your mom went to work, it was so she could save for an apartment. but then she met peter and skipped the idea of renting.
speaker1: he's got nothing to do with me.
speaker2: i couldn't imagine how i could compete with him for any part of you. so, i didn't. he wanted you to have his last name...i let him even take that.
speaker1: he was a when i was six, and he's a today. george turns onto his side to face sam again.
speaker2: i wish you had told me then.
speaker1: i'm telling you now.
speaker2: i gave up on you.
speaker1: i'd be in tahoe having fun if you had given up.
speaker2: what would you be doing now?
speaker1: getting high, i guess.
speaker2: if i asked you to stop, would you?
speaker1: i haven't used anything for two days. i'm trying.
speaker2: i'm proud of you, sam.
speaker1: don't be. and hide whatever that new drug is you have. i like it.
speaker2: i put a gun to my father's head once.
speaker2: have you ever thought like that? i've been thinking...watching you work. how much do you hate me? he was passed out. just screaming at my mother before. about nothing. under-cooked meat. i went back to my room... put the barrel close to his ear and chickened out again. not my dad. hid in my room. not even me. of course it was a bb gun. but it still would have hurt like hell.
speaker1: are you talking?
speaker2: i was just thinking about my mom. she wouldn't leave him. i remember one time she made us dinner wearing sunglasses. i mean it was dark outside and in. but we never talked about it.
speaker1: sun glasses?
speaker2: to hide a black eye.
speaker1: why wouldn't she leave?
speaker2: i think she was terrified of living with him...but maybe even more terrified of life without him.
speaker1: i would have killed him.
speaker2: everything would have been better if you had. you'd have liked your grandmother. and there'd be a girl out there that'd have her mother. i remember reading about her in the paper. they couldn't find her father and her mother was dead. i still feel guilty about that.
speaker1: do you ever wish you had done it?
speaker2: i loved him too much.
speaker1: after everything he did to you and your mom?
speaker2: after everything.
speaker1: that's so weird...

speaker1: i like the color i'm making the doors. 
speaker2: the absolute best color i've ever seen in my life. adam lights up, pleased to be praised.
speaker3: how many bedrooms will your house have?
speaker2: three.
speaker1: will sam live with you or us?
speaker2: with you.
speaker4: so put your plans of my room in the trash.
speaker1: i don't think dad wants you home.
speaker5: adam, that's not true!
speaker3: yes, it is.
speaker5: would you stop being ridiculous? your father wants sam home as much as i do.
speaker5: it wasn't meant to be...
speaker2: i love you!

speaker1: you know what i've decided? 
speaker2: to shave your chest?
speaker1: we should take a vacation.
speaker2: the biggest waste of time since television.
speaker1: do you remember anything i've said that wasn't negative?
speaker1: just the two of us.
speaker2: i'd love to drive through new england in the fall.
speaker1: sooner than the fall.
speaker2: after the kids are back in school.
speaker1: lois will stay with them. or we can them off on your parents.
speaker2: i'm helping george build his house.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i've been helping for the last few days. weeks. sam's working. i told you sam was working. i mean, he really is.
speaker1: good. that was the plan. we couldn't stand him and george needed help. as true as it is, this still irritates robin.
speaker2: i can't go right now.
speaker1: you can't go because of sam?
speaker2: we haven't been away together for three years. what difference does a few months make?
speaker1: you can't go with me because of sam?
speaker2: sam is working at something for the first time in his life. once in a while he even talks to me. i want to be around for that.
speaker1: so am i, robin. i'm working at something, too. i'm even talking. do you want to be around for it?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i was talking about our marriage.
speaker2: i know.

speaker1: what's the point of this? 
speaker2: does everything have to have a point?
speaker1: it's freakish. i don't get it. i'm not really supposed to touch you, but i can look.
speaker2: are you sure you're totally into guys?
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: josh said...
speaker1: i'm not gay.
speaker1: i mean, hello!
speaker2: i was wondering.
speaker1: you're driving me crazy! do you know what it's like trying to in an armoire?
speaker2: not really.
speaker1: you're off, you know? you're way, way off.
speaker2: i thought i was helping you.
speaker1: it would help me if i could kiss you.
speaker2: no, i don't...no. i thought we were just friends.
speaker1: what you think, you know, doesn't have much to do with reality. i mean, i hope i'm not the first to say that about you.
speaker2: okay, but then we'll just be friends. okay?
speaker1: okay. i guess.
speaker2: have you ever even kissed a girl?
speaker2: oh, yuck!
speaker2: you're scrubbing the shower down.

speaker1: you must have a really great husband. 
speaker2: why is that?
speaker1: just, i mean, well, you're here every single day.
speaker2: he's at work while i'm here.
speaker1: i guess i'd just be jealous if i were him.
speaker2: well, he doesn't need to worry.
speaker1: if my kids and my wife were always at an ex-husband's house, i'd worry.
speaker2: he's not the type to worry.
speaker2: let's eat!

speaker1: i'd be glad to fix you something. 
speaker2: no, i'm fine.

speaker1: nothing r, okay? 
speaker2: enough for drinks, popcorn and candy!
speaker3: and video games after!
speaker1: home after. will you come in and say "hi"?
speaker3: do we have to take her?
speaker4: definitely.

speaker1: i should go. 
speaker2: maybe you shouldn't come everyday.
speaker1: no. why? i like to be with sam.
speaker2: it's just that there's less that adam and ryan can do anymore. i'd hate to have them bored. robin stands and walks to george.
speaker1: i know they're not much help, but they love coming here, george.
speaker2: how much time do they get to spend with their dad?
speaker1: what is it with this? they wouldn't spend less time with peter if they lived here! he has no time!
speaker1: do you know alyssa thinks something is up with us? she's giving me about being away from peter and now you're trying to do the same thing! what no one seems to realize is that peter isn't there! he's not there! and when he is, he isn't! so, if you don't want me here, or you don't want my kids here, just tell me, george. i'll stop coming. but it won't be because of peter. it'll be because you asked me to stop. say what you need to say, because i'm not leaving until i hear it.
speaker2: i'd rather you not be here.
speaker1: i thought we were helping.
speaker2: i can hire workers to help me.

speaker1: you can come in and wait if you'd like. 
speaker2: what friends did she go with?

speaker1: nothing is going on with us, is it? 
speaker2: going on?
speaker1: when i picked you up from the train station...what you said.
speaker2: what did i say?
speaker1: that thing about i was the most, you know, beautiful person you had ever known. what was that?
speaker2: that was the truth.
speaker1: you've never said that before.
speaker2: i'll say a lot of things i've never said before. it's habit.
speaker1: it sounded like a pick-up line.
speaker2: i can't pick you up.
speaker1: i'm married.
speaker2: you bit my finger.
speaker1: if i weren't married?
speaker2: let's not do this, okay?
speaker1: i need to know.
speaker2: you need to know what? do i still love you?
speaker2: absolutely. there's not a doubt in my mind that through all my anger...my ego, i was faithful in my love for you. from seventh grade on.
speaker2: that i made you doubt it, that i withheld it...that's the greatest mistake of a life full of mistakes. but the truth doesn't set us free, robin. i can say it as many times as you can stand to hear it. and all that does, the only thing, is remind us that love isn't enough. not even close. tears well in robin's eyes as she stands.
speaker1: i should go.

speaker1: all i am is what i have. 
speaker1: that sounds pathetic, doesn't it?
speaker2: what are you doing home?
speaker1: i always felt i could never marry you without first showing you what a fabulous life you cloud live despite me.
speaker2: you never really trusted me.
speaker1: you live a fabulous life, robin.
speaker2: despite you.
speaker1: i never asked for more.
speaker2: that's the problem.
speaker1: please don't leave me.
speaker1: where are the kids?
speaker2: sam took them to a movie.
speaker1: i'll be in the bedroom.

speaker1: oh 
speaker2: i fell asleep! alyssa walks in, closing the door behind her.
speaker3: sam's dropping adam and ryan off.
speaker2: can you keep sam straight?
speaker3: he's not gay. i found out purely by accident, believe me.
speaker2: i mean drugs. i thought you said he was?
speaker3: he wouldn't use around me. i don't like any of it.
speaker2: you're a good girl.
speaker3: i need to ask you something, mr. nelson.
speaker2: you have to ask like that?
speaker3: i want you to try something with me, okay?
speaker2: i've taken a lot of morphine. oral morphine...for my back. can i wait till i can say no and sound convincing?
speaker3: did you feel anything?
speaker2: maybe your tongue...i don't know, my mouth is numb. why did you do that?
speaker3: when you dated my mom, i saw you kiss her once. you looked like such a good kisser.

speaker1: my mother would die. 
speaker2: let's shut up and not kill her.
speaker3: oh my

speaker1: it's not what i was expecting. 
speaker2: what did you think it would be?
speaker1: i don't know... more like when i kissed sam.
speaker1: more like that.
speaker1: thanks for your time.

speaker1: mom? 
speaker2: here, honey!

speaker1: i completely forgot. i'm so sorry, josh. what are you doing? 
speaker2: i put him to work.
speaker1: what's wrong?
speaker2: i couldn't get it to go down.
speaker1: and why was the alarm on?
speaker2: oh...i set it to see if it would work.
speaker1: you'd better call and cancel.
speaker2: oh we don't want the police!
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker3: what's the deal with you and sam?

speaker1: i got to play one video game for three hours straight! 
speaker2: wouldn't you move to another one if the one you were playing made you look stupid?
speaker1: that's how you get things right is to always try and never give up. huh, mom?
speaker3: i guess it depends on what you give up on.
speaker4: there were no pg's. so i just gave them money to play games.
speaker3: can you stay for dinner?
speaker4: depends on what i'd give up on.
speaker4: it looks like a trap.
speaker3: go tell your father we're eating.
speaker2: dad's home, already?
speaker3: in the bedroom.
speaker1: he's not there.
speaker3: he's here. check the bathroom.
speaker1: i checked everywhere. he's not there.

speaker1: what are you doing up so early? 
speaker2: i couldn't sleep last night.
speaker1: i'm supposed to be mad at you, but i'm not.
speaker2: why? what do you mean?
speaker1: uh...using josh like that.
speaker2: i will never forgive myself. never, alyssa. i know i took advantage. it's inexcusable. oh, i should have my head examined.
speaker1: he said you asked him to tighten your toilet seat, too. that's so uncool.
speaker2: i won't do it again. i swear.

speaker1: dad's disappeared! 
speaker2: he was there and then he wasn't!
speaker3: he hasn't called?
speaker1: who are you?
speaker4: i'm the electrician.
speaker1: i'm the builder!

speaker1: is your back still killing you? 
speaker2: i didn't think you'd come today.
speaker1: i kept thinking about it, what you said... i hope you were trying to keep me away fro the sake of me.
speaker2: no. mostly me.
speaker1: peter left me yesterday.
speaker2: left you?
speaker1: no goodbye. no you. no 'are you in love with george?'
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker1: 'i'll be in the bedroom.'
speaker1: i couldn't walk in there. so he left.
speaker3: dad, dale needs to know..
speaker2: i had a kink in my...
speaker1: back. neck. back.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: the door was open.
speaker1: i don't know what i'm doing.
speaker3: i wouldn't let adam or ryan see you doing it.
speaker2: it won't happen again.
speaker3: dale wants to know if we should run an outside outlet for christmas lights with a switch inside?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: i could die.
speaker2: so could i.
speaker1: are you going to kiss me?
speaker2: it's not my back that's killing me.

speaker1: i don't see her. 
speaker2: josh?
speaker1: i was hoping...you could..you know. go for a ride?
speaker3: on the handlebars or your shoulders?
speaker2: are you afraid of heights?
speaker1: not really.
speaker2: can you help us out?
speaker1: my parents cut my allowance off. without a car, i'm totally screwed.
speaker2: george is paying sam ten dollars an hour. sam sticks his head back out the window.
speaker3: hey, i can get you three hundred cash for two hours.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: it's just a joke. a stupid joke.
speaker1: i could use the money.
speaker2: hey, george! i recruited some help for the roof!
speaker4: george nelson.
speaker1: josh.
speaker2: me too!
speaker5: i just wanted to know where mom was?
speaker4: oh. sorry.
speaker5: it's okay.
speaker4: she needs to be alone, i think.
speaker5: because dad left?
speaker4: she's a little sad, is all.
speaker5: i don't even care if he ever comes back.
speaker4: josh, you look like you could use a hug.
speaker1: no...i'm okay. i'm okay.
speaker6: don't even think about it.
speaker4: well, they got me started.
speaker6: i swear to i'll use these wires and shock you so bad your tongue will turn black.

speaker1: would you get it for me? 
speaker2: just let mine ring!
speaker3: i guess... i don't know.
speaker3: hello?

speaker1: colleen?! 
speaker2: i..i..i.. george?!

speaker1: is it mine?! 
speaker2: i hope not.
speaker3: that's not mine.
speaker1: oh,

speaker1: i'm okay. i'm fine. maybe i'll go home. 
speaker2: is that bone sticking out?
speaker3: don't move!
speaker4: i'm an to have you up there.
speaker1: no. it's my fault.
speaker5: i heard a scream!
speaker1: if i could just stand up.
speaker6: josh fell.
speaker4: i think he might have broken a leg.

speaker1: two ribs, a finger, a leg, a bruised kidney and a mild concussion aren't bad considering he landed on brick. 
speaker2: i better get the kids home.
speaker1: not a perfect day.

speaker1: you look like lately. 
speaker2: you look better than ever.
speaker1: i don't think mom cares that much that my...that peter left.
speaker2: she seemed upset.
speaker1: what's wrong with your back?
speaker1: i mean, do you need to have surgery on it or what? because those pills you're taking are for a lot of pain. and you're going through them quick.
speaker2: are you taking them still?
speaker1: no, but i count them. in a sock isn't new, you know?
speaker2: i'm having a problem with cancer.
speaker1: i don't know what that means. what kind of problem?
speaker2: the kind where there isn't really an answer.
speaker1: i still don't know what that means.
speaker2: i wanted you here so we could have a few months together. maybe everything happens for a reason. something bad to force something good. sam looks somewhat panicked.
speaker1: what? are you dying?
speaker2: i'm having a problem with cancer.
speaker1: i don't know what that means. what kind of problem?
speaker2: the kind where there isn't really an answer.
speaker1: i still don't know what that means.
speaker2: i wanted you here so we could have a few months together. maybe everything happens for a reason. something bad to force something good. sam looks somewhat panicked.
speaker1: what? are you dying?
speaker1: and you told mom today?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: you! you knew you were dying from the start!
speaker2: we're all dying from the start. i just got picked for advanced placement.
speaker1: you lied to me!
speaker2: i would have lied to me if i thought i'd believe it.
speaker1: this was all for your sake, wasn't it? having me here? trying to get me to like you.
speaker2: i never tried to get you to like me. i tried to get you to love me.
speaker1: well, congratulations! you pulled it off!

speaker1: is alyssa here? 
speaker2: it's midnight. what's the matter, sam?
speaker1: nothing. my dad's dying. i really need to talk to alyssa.
speaker3: sam?

speaker1: it's open. 
speaker2: it's my day off. i thought i'd help with the plumbing.
speaker1: i need you to do me a favor.
speaker2: you look like crap, george.
speaker1: i want you to find someone for me.

speaker1: he's been asleep for hours. 
speaker2: is sam okay?
speaker3: he won't leave my room.
speaker2: will he talk to me?
speaker3: no.

speaker1: you're not a plumber, kurt. 
speaker2: i worked every summer with my dad. check out what i've done.
speaker1: it's not whether it's good or bad. you know that. it's whether your licensed.
speaker2: are you still renting that illegal non conforming studio under your house for a thousand a month?
speaker1: okay. looks good to me.
speaker2: oh, that's embarrassing. that was too easy. at least look around. i really did do it right.
speaker1: that isn't why i'm here, anyway.
speaker3: i've been dreading you.
speaker1: mr. stevens. one of your neighbors is adamant your home has exceeded its approved height. he's filed to have construction stopped immediately.
speaker3: it's thirty feet.
speaker1: well, if it is, we have a problem.
speaker3: i have the permit.
speaker1: after your last extension request and with design review and the board of adjustment and the appeals to the city council, was there an amended permit?
speaker3: to the patio and one north-facing window... and six inches to the height.
speaker3: david dokos?
speaker2: why do you let your dog on his lawn, day after day?
speaker3: i don't let him. he just loves to.
speaker4: he'll make you tear the entire roof off rather than give you any satisfaction.
speaker1: i'm afraid you won't be able to continue until this is settled. you can always go back and file an appeal.
speaker3: that would take weeks.
speaker1: months.
speaker5: just so you know, we'll be here working tomorrow and every day after until this house is finished.
speaker1: he'll call us again and then he'll call the police. he has an attorney on retainer.
speaker5: just so you know.
speaker1: if he hears a hammer, he'll have you arrested.

speaker1: i'm going to bed. 
speaker2: has he eaten anything at all?
speaker2: i'd be more comfortable if he slept in the guestroom.
speaker1: i'd be more comfortable if you hadn't slept with josh. and george would be more comfortable if he weren't dying.
speaker1: comfort doesn't mean that much when just getting through the night is the goal, mom.

speaker1: there are like twenty people working on your dad's house! 
speaker1: if it were my father, i'd wanna spend every second with him i had left.
speaker2: you hate your father.
speaker1: if he tricked me into loving him, is what i meant.
speaker2: you'd hate him for the trick.
speaker1: not if what he left me was real.

speaker1: he pulled this crew off a tract in newport. they're the best. 
speaker2: what's going on?
speaker3: i hired some help.
speaker2: why?
speaker4: mom?!
speaker3: atonement.
speaker4: who are all these people?
speaker2: where's george?
speaker3: i think he's still sleeping.

speaker1: george!? 
speaker1: wake up...you're still warm.
speaker2: stop licking me.

speaker1: your dad's going to the hospital! 
speaker1: come on!
speaker2: i don't wanna go.
speaker1: he asked where you were! he wants you with him.
speaker2: i don't wanna go.

speaker1: nothing is built until the board of adjustment hears the appeal! 
speaker1: where is he?
speaker2: i should have reported you for tossing that piece of dog doo.
speaker3: tom, let's not overreact now.
speaker1: i want this piece of construction stopped now and i want that roof ripped off and lowered and i don't care if i have to spend a load of money to get it done!! i will do it!!!
speaker2: i want this house finished before he can stop it.

speaker1: guster, be quiet. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: you got a dog?
speaker1: it's not ours. it's george's.
speaker2: i've missed you guys.
speaker1: why?
speaker1: i'll tell mom you're here.

speaker1: and we got to take all the old paint off all the doors and then george taught us how to stain everything and he even let me choose the color i liked best! and he said he loved me! 
speaker2: we did a lot of the wiring too.
speaker1: with dale. oh, and i got to drill a hole into a board to put the wire through!
speaker3: i've never heard you so excited about anything.
speaker1: maybe you can come help us too?!
speaker3: i'd like that.

speaker1: i'm afraid no one's allowed in here now. 
speaker2: he's my dad.
speaker2: i brought you something.
speaker3: i don't wanna go, sam.
speaker2: here.
speaker2: can you see?
speaker2: it's almost done.

speaker1: go brush your teeth and get right into bed. it's late. 
speaker2: goodnight.
speaker3: goodnight.
speaker4: do you know anything about building a house?
speaker3: no.
speaker4: i guess i could teach you some things.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: i hardly recognize you with a beard.
speaker3: that was my plan...to be hardly recognizable to you as me.
speaker1: i feel in love with george again.
speaker3: i'll see you tomorrow.

speaker1: where are you?! 
speaker2: floating to catalina.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: he said he heard hammering.
speaker2: who?
speaker4: my attorney is driving down from newport beach. if i hear one more nail being hammered, i swear to before this is all over i'll end up owing this house!
speaker3: mr. dokos says that your father missed his height envelope by six inches.
speaker1: he wants the entire roof taken off and lowered.
speaker2: wait a minute.
speaker2: do you drive a black mercedes?
speaker4: no.
speaker4: i'm going back to my house to wait for my lawyer. david starts to leave, but sam stops him with:
speaker2: are you sure we need lawyers?
speaker2: because all we're really talking about is six inches, right?
speaker4: are you threatening me?
speaker3: what are you talking about?
speaker2: i'm sixteen years old. i'm underage. how could i possibly threaten you?
speaker2: would you like to help us finish the house, mr. dokos?
speaker4: yes, i would.
speaker3: what the
speaker2: everything happens for a reason. that's what my dad said.
speaker3: then you tell me, what just happened?
speaker2: the payoff.
speaker4: i'll just...change clothes.

speaker1: it's almost done! 
speaker2: do you guys feel like painting?
speaker1: what color?
speaker2: red.
speaker1: i love red! that's my favorite color!
speaker3: you don't look like you.
speaker2: either do you.
speaker3: i thought i might be able to help, but it looks like you have all you can handle.
speaker2: do you like red?

speaker1: when does george get to come see his house? 
speaker2: it's so beautiful.
speaker3: is george okay?

speaker1: you're sure about this? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: you could keep it and rent it out?
speaker2: this is what he wants.
speaker1: i read the letter. you read the will. he wants you to keep it. to live in it some day.
speaker2: then maybe this isn't what he wants, but this what he was hoping for. maybe it's what i want.

speaker1: twenty-one years ago, my father crossed a double-line. he changed my life and the life of a little girl forever with that mistake. i just can't stop thinking about her. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker3: my father built you a house...

