speaker1: wake up, roberta! 
speaker1: come on, bert -- get out of bed!
speaker1: please, bert -- you need to get out of that bed.

speaker1: can you come out now, mommy? please? 
speaker2: mommy, nick broke my crayon!
speaker3: well, lexi hit me and he almost broke... he almost broke my ear!
speaker4: hear that? your boys need you.

speaker1: but i have no room for this! 
speaker2: i'm sorry, m'am. we have orders to deliver these.

speaker1: watch it, you idiots! be careful with those! 
speaker2: why so many?

speaker1: look, i know he's there, so quit lying to me!... then check under lana holden -- mrs. lana holden... fine. just tell lieutenant demetras that his wife called and -- 
speaker1: ma!
speaker2: no. i want you to listen to me. you can't keep doing this to yourself -- or to the boys. they need their mother now. you're a beautiful, talented woman and you have your whole life ahead of you.
speaker1: if i'm so beautiful and talented, why did charles leave me?
speaker2: because charles is a big jerk. now get dressed.

speaker1: you really think charles is a jerk? 
speaker2: from the day you married him.
speaker1: why didn't you say something?
speaker2: since when do you listen to me?
speaker1: what am i gonna do?
speaker2: first, you eat breakfast. second, you go out and get a job -- any job. your boys, god-bless-em, are good eaters -- but i can't afford it.
speaker1: mama, he's gonna get tired of her -- you'll see.
speaker2: well in the meantime, get a job.

speaker1: just wrap. you're not picasso. 
speaker2: picasso would probably put the bows on the back of the box.
speaker3: brian turner?
speaker4: hello, roberta.
speaker3: i thought you moved away.
speaker4: i did. i'm in town for my mom's birthday.
speaker4: no -- that's her gift.
speaker3: oh! sorry.
speaker4: it looks very pretty.
speaker3: thank you. i heard you had a book published. i didn't read it but...
speaker4: that's o.k. my parents didn't read it either. it looks good on their coffee table, though.
speaker4: so what are you doing here? i thought you'd be in carnegie hall by now.

speaker1: my college professors said it was too late -- i hadn't had enough training to be a concert violinist. so i got a teaching degree instead. 
speaker2: i'll bet you're a great teacher.
speaker1: i think i am. it's just that... see, every time i'd get started somewhere, charles would be transferred... then i had my kids and took time off to raise them... and then when i decided to teach again, no one would hire me 'cause you can't count on a navy wife to stick around. i finally decided i'd start my own program -- charles gave me the money and i bought fifty violins from this little greek shop -- got started at a private school and then...
speaker2: your husband ran off with your best friend.
speaker1: she wasn't my "best" friend. she was a friend. charles is the last person you'd think would cheat on me -- he never broke a rule... i wake up one night -- it's like one in the morning -- and he's not in bed. i go outside and our neighbor -- this old greek guy -- is sitting out there, smoking a cigar, so i ask if he's seen my husband. "he's taking a walk with the other officer's wife," he says. "he takes a walk every night with the other officer's wife."
speaker1: these are cold.
speaker2: so you're just gonna wrap presents and wait for him to come back?
speaker1: you sound like my mother.
speaker2: that's not very sexy.
speaker1: are you trying to be or be my friend?
speaker2: a little of both.
speaker2: you know, i know this really cool lady who runs this elementary school -- i wrote a piece on her. it's a public school, but it's alternative -- she might be able to create some kind of gig for you. let me give her a call.
speaker1: great!
speaker2: if she hires you, though, you have to be willing to relocate.
speaker1: where is it?

speaker1: aside from half a term in a private school -- in greece -- and a year teaching chorus in hawaii -- ten years ago -- it doesn't look like you've had any other teaching experience. 
speaker2: well, not traditional teaching experience. i've been doing private lessons...
speaker2: it's not on there... i taught my sons.
speaker1: i'd like to help you, mrs. demetras. brian spoke highly of you and i told him i'd consider starting a violin class... but without the proper qualifications, and without any experience in an inner city school...
speaker1: i'm very sorry.

speaker1: yes? 
speaker2: i'm sorry to interrupt, but i wanted you to meet my sons -- nick, lexi...

speaker1: roberta guaspari-demetras. dennis shakes her hand, regarding her warily. 
speaker2: this is dennis rausch, our music teacher and program coordinator. mrs. demetras, didn't i make things clear yesterday?
speaker1: if i could just show you something -- it'll only take a minute.
speaker3: are we having a talent show? i should have brought my tap shoes.
speaker4: will you hire her now?
speaker2: how long have you boys been playing?
speaker5: since i was three.
speaker4: maybe since i was three and a half.
speaker2: your mom must be a good teacher.
speaker5: she's o.k.
speaker2: if you could teach our students to play like that, i'd be thrilled, but --
speaker1: i can. any child can learn the violin.
speaker3: assuming they had the discipline.
speaker1: i'll teach them to have discipline.
speaker2: a lot of our parents are struggling to feed their kids and pay the rent -- they don't have time to help them learn violin.
speaker1: they don't have to. if they can help, great -- but these kids will be committed. they'll practice on their own, they'll help each other in the classroom --
speaker3: i think i know these students, miss demetras. their attention span doesn't go past do-re-mi. maybe on a good day, i can get them to "fa."
speaker1: you're underestimating them. they can play as well as any other kids.
speaker3: that i'd like to see.
speaker1: you will.
speaker2: for now i'll put you down as a sub, but i have to warn you -- even if it works out, the board may not let me create a permanent position for you.
speaker1: that's o.k. i'll worry about that later. thank you.
speaker3: well, i've already planned out the whole term, and i can tell you right now, there's no room for this! besides, where you gonna find money for violins?
speaker1: you need violins?

speaker1: please do not open the cases, o.k.? 
speaker1: look, can everyone just settle down and listen to me -- please?
speaker1: keep them closed! please.
speaker1: put those down, please!
speaker1: don't do that! put the bows back in the cases -- right now!
speaker1: who's plucking?
speaker1: what have i been saying? put that away! back in the case!
speaker1: o.k. thank you. that's much better. i'll be dividing you into five classes, but for today --
speaker1: o.k. -- that's it! you! stand up!
speaker1: you will be the first student who will not be in my violin class. out!
speaker1: i said out!
speaker1: who else would like to be kicked out of my class?
speaker1: are you raising your hand because you want to be kicked out?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i don't wanna learn no stupid violin. it's for wimps.
speaker1: who told you that?
speaker2: i just know.
speaker1: what's your name?
speaker3: de sean.
speaker1: well, de sean -- you haven't given me a good enough reason, so you're staying.
speaker1: anyone else?

speaker1: hey, i play pretty good. 
speaker2: see how easy it is? maybe in the spring, we could have a big concert for your families and for the whole school. what's your name?
speaker1: naeem.
speaker2: if you listen to me and do exactly what i say, you're gonna sound beautiful at the concert and you're gonna be so proud of yourselves. good, naeem. your hand's staying soft. but if you don't listen to me, you'll sound so bad that your own parents will feel sick when they hear you. they might even throw up.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: it's a toast. to roberta, who's made it through her first week.
speaker1: i don't know, brian. i'm hanging on by a thread there. out of fifty kids, maybe six are listening to me.
speaker2: look at the progress. didn't you say no one was listening to you on monday?
speaker1: i really appreciate all you've done for us. and i promise -- this weekend i'll start looking for a place.
speaker2: there's no rush.
speaker1: no, we've put you out enough. you're supposed to be writing, not babysitting for us. i've started your book. it's very powerful.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: so what made you choose migrant workers for your next book? i mean, how do you know what to write about?
speaker2: i follow my gut, pay attention to what i'm being drawn to...
speaker1: what are you doing?
speaker2: i've been waiting to do that since mr. baines' orchestra class.
speaker1: you didn't even notice me!
speaker2: sure i did. you used to ignore me and it drove me wild.
speaker1: you had at least five different girlfriends.
speaker2: it didn't mean i had the one i wanted.
speaker2: you're not a navy wife anymore...
speaker1: yes i am... legally.
speaker2: and is it a navy requirement that you dress like it's the 1950's?
speaker1: i do not!
speaker2: who did you vote for in the last election?
speaker1: what does that have to do with anything?
speaker2: tell me.
speaker1: i don't know. charles filled out my absentee ballot.
speaker2: oh my -- it's even worse than i thought! is this the same roberta who got the orchestra to strike until they gave us new uniforms?
speaker1: that roberta's not around anymore.
speaker2: i don't believe that.
speaker1: i shouldn't.
speaker2: because?
speaker1: the boys --
speaker2: they're sleeping.
speaker1: i know, but... i'm still married.
speaker2: and what's your husband doing right now?

speaker1: oh -- the boys. 
speaker2: they're still sleeping.
speaker1: where are you going?
speaker2: texas.

speaker1: what's in texas? 
speaker2: farm workers. i just got the call -- it came through -- my research grant! it came through! isn't that great?
speaker1: today?
speaker2: i've got a few families lined up there, some in california --
speaker1: how long will you be gone?
speaker2: two, three months.
speaker1: what?

speaker1: i thought... i just thought you were gonna be around. and then last night -- he stops what he's doing and looks at her. 
speaker2: whoa. roberta -- last night was great but did you think i was gonna marry you in the morning?
speaker1: no! of course not.
speaker1: it's just that... we just got here and we're barely... i don't even know where to buy groceries.
speaker2: you're gonna be fine. you have a job, a place to stay, your kids have a school to go to -- and there's a d'agostino's around the corner.
speaker1: congratulations.

speaker1: and what am i doing now? 
speaker2: rosining the bow.
speaker1: good. and what am i doing when i turn this little screw? everyone stop talking. right now!
speaker1: naeem?
speaker3: tightening the horse hair.
speaker1: and what do we call this?
speaker1: de sean?
speaker4: yeah?
speaker1: what do we call this?
speaker4: i don't know.
speaker1: why not?
speaker4: i wasn't here.
speaker1: yes you were but you weren't paying attention! do you want people to think you're stupid?
speaker1: all right, naeem -- tell them.
speaker3: it's called the frog.
speaker1: anyone remember what this is?
speaker1: lucy! do you like people snapping their fingers when you're talking?
speaker5: yeah!
speaker1: what is this called?
speaker5: the jeri curl?

speaker1: excuse me -- sorry to interrupt -- the students immediately start to chatter. 
speaker2: no talking!
speaker1: i'm supposed to take kids out of miss cooper's classroom for my ten o'clock class -- there's nobody there.
speaker2: miss cooper's students have phys ed on tuesdays.
speaker1: but you scheduled them for violin.
speaker2: you must have read the schedule wrong.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: well, i can't solve this problem for you right now. i'm trying to teach.
speaker1: so am i.

speaker1: can i bring a puppy for show and tell tomorrow? 
speaker2: honey, we don't have a puppy.
speaker3: daddy said we could get one when we moved back to america.
speaker2: how about your truck? i'll bet you're the only one in school with a truck from greece.
speaker3: when's daddy coming back?
speaker2: well, he's still on his tour, so we'll just have to see but... it shouldn't be too much longer.
speaker1: is he gonna live with us and brian?
speaker2: no, honey. we're just staying at brian's house for a little while.
speaker2: good night, sweetie.
speaker3: no! leave it on.

speaker1: now take the right foot and put it on a tile. good. now with the other foot take a tiny step forward and put it on a line. try to make a box with your feet -- 
speaker1: lucy! would you like to leave the class right now?
speaker1: you should feel very strong -- so strong and balanced that if i wanted to knock you over i couldn't.
speaker1: you see? if you're standing strong, i can't even push you.
speaker1: de sean! james! quiet! does anyone know where naeem is?
speaker2: i saw him this morning but he's not here.
speaker1: yes, i know he's not here -- that's why i'm asking.
speaker1: see how i pushed you? it means your feet aren't centered.
speaker1: can you bring over a chair? it's probably better for you to sit.

speaker1: where were you today, naeem? 
speaker2: i can't be in violin class anymore.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: my mother won't let me.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: my son's got more important things to do than learn dead white men's music.
speaker1: they're gonna learn "twinkle twinkle little star"!
speaker3: how many black classical composers can you name? how many black classical violinists do you know?
speaker1: that doesn't mean it's the way it should be. naeem's learning to play music -- and that makes him feel good about himself. why should it matter who wrote it?
speaker2: please, mom? can't i be in the class?
speaker3: look. i've seen this before. you white women come up here and think you can rescue our poor inner city children who never asked to be rescued in the first place. no thank you.

speaker1: and which ocean is this? 
speaker2: excuse me... i'm here for the violin students.
speaker1: you're late.
speaker2: just a couple of minutes -- i'm sorry.
speaker1: they're having a lesson now.
speaker2: but this is when they have violin class!
speaker1: that's not my problem.

speaker1: i thought all the teachers agreed to this. 
speaker2: in theory. adam! i want you in my office right after lunch, you understand?
speaker3: what'd i do?
speaker2: think about it! whenever you pull kids out, it's a disruption, plus it's extra work for the teacher 'cause they have to fill the kids in on what they missed. some teachers resent it.
speaker1: well, can't you talk to them?
speaker2: i took this off a second-grader this morning. i'll help you roberta -- but i can't hold your hand here.
speaker2: a word of advice? when you're picking up your students, go to alice's classroom first. roberta stands there as janet walks on ahead.

speaker1: so pretend you're driving a car and i'm the policeman and i say stop! thumb up, fingers straight up, flat palm. now you be policemen, but turn your hand and make it say stop to yourself. 
speaker2: you're under arrest.
speaker1: knock it off, de sean! if you kids can't take this seriously, i don't want you here. i'm teaching you a difficult instrument because i respect you and have faith that you can learn it. but none of that matters if you don't have respect for yourself.
speaker1: now turn your wrist so it's flat against the fingerboard, and that's how you'll set up your hand...
speaker1: guadalupe! you've got the violin in the wrong hand! how did that happen? embarrassed, guadalupe corrects her position.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: hello, bobbi.
speaker1: where are you?
speaker2: i'm back in the states. i'm at my parents.
speaker1: are you still with her?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: we've missed you so much, charles. the boys... they can't wait for you to come home... i know we'll have a lot to work out and it won't be easy right away, but we're gonna get through this, you know? we're a family and we belong together and -- 
speaker2: bobbi -- stop, o.k.? just stop.
speaker2: i want a divorce.
speaker1: what?
speaker1: but you said... you and lana... you said it was over.
speaker2: it is.

speaker1: i can't believe you were still holding out hope. the guy hasn't called you or the kids in three months -- i thought you'd moved on. 
speaker2: i never said that.
speaker1: no? maybe not with words.
speaker2: you know what? i shouldn't have called you. this was a mistake.
speaker1: no, no -- i'm sorry. look, i know it hurts, but you're gonna get through this, roberta -- you will.
speaker2: i'm moving back to my mom's.
speaker1: what? you're gonna quit teaching in the middle of the term?
speaker2: i don't fit in there -- i'm not making any progress with the kids...
speaker1: what are you gonna tell janet -- your husband left you and nothing else matters?
speaker2: i don't know yet.

speaker1: my mother gave it to me. 
speaker2: why would she give you fifty dollars?
speaker1: to buy breakfast.
speaker2: do you know how hard your mother works? do you think it's right for you steal from her?
speaker1: i didn't!
speaker2: well let's go call her right now and ask her.
speaker3: i need to speak to you. it's important.
speaker2: it'll have to wait. come on. in my office.

speaker1: guadalupe? what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i can't get the stop sign.
speaker1: honey, your teacher's probably looking for you.
speaker2: i can't come anymore. it's too hard.
speaker1: the violin is hard for everyone.
speaker2: but everyone else is better than me. i'll always be slow.
speaker1: did you ever hear of itzhak perlman?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: he's one of the greatest violinists in the world, and he has problems with his legs too. he walks with two canes -- but he still makes the most beautiful music.
speaker2: and he sits down when he plays?
speaker1: he has to.
speaker2: he was your student?
speaker1: no. but if he was, i'd tell him the same thing i'm telling you. you shouldn't quit something just because it's hard.
speaker2: but i can't stand strong.
speaker1: standing strong doesn't only mean using your legs. you can stand strong on the inside too. know what i mean?
speaker3: you wanted to speak to me?
speaker1: oh. umm -- that's o.k. it's taken care of.

speaker1: is just for you and your boys? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: no husband? no boyfriend?
speaker2: no.

speaker1: look what i made you, mommy! 
speaker2: that is so beautiful!
speaker3: whatsa matter -- you got cooties?
speaker2: apparently.
speaker3: i'll take my chances. isabel vasquez. second grade.
speaker2: roberta demetras. i'm the --
speaker3: violin teacher. i know.
speaker2: is it my imagination, or does everyone hate me?
speaker3: it's hard to fit in when you're doing a special program. people figure you're not gonna be here very long, so why make the effort? it may take a while for folks to warm up, but nobody hates you.
speaker2: what about alice crowley?
speaker2: and then there's dennis.
speaker3: the music man. you've had the bodacity to threaten his private little empire -- not to mention the fact that you messed up his sacred scheduling chart.
speaker2: how come you're being nice to me?
speaker3: ulterior motives. i want my daughter in your class next year.
speaker2: if i'm here next year.
speaker3: you will be.

speaker1: in greece, we could see the ocean. remember? 
speaker2: i remember. and the fishing boats...
speaker1: and the octopuses.
speaker1: is daddy coming here soon?
speaker2: well, that's something i've been wanting to talk to you about. daddy's not gonna live with us anymore. you and lexi will have special times when you stay with him, like at christmas.
speaker1: can you tell the birthday story?
speaker2: don't you want to talk about what i told you?
speaker1: i want to hear the birthday story.
speaker2: it was the day of grandpa's birthday, and i was sad because he had died a few months back.
speaker1: but you knew i'd be born that day.
speaker2: so i packed a bag and got all ready --
speaker1: and daddy laughed.
speaker2: i said, "it's my father's birthday, and the baby's gonna be born today."
speaker1: he didn't believe you. but i was born. the same day as grandpa.
speaker2: it was a happy day.
speaker1: was daddy happy too?
speaker2: of course he was.
speaker1: then why is he leaving me?
speaker2: he's not leaving you, nick. he loves you and lexi very much.
speaker1: then why can't he live here?

speaker1: slow bows! slow bows! don't squeeze! stop! everybody stop! how much did you practice this week? 
speaker2: my asthma -- it was very bad and i had to go to the hospital.
speaker1: again? you told me you went to the hospital last week.
speaker2: oh yeah. maybe it was last week.
speaker1: lucy -- you sounded the worst of all. have you practiced?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: why not? you can't be in this class if you don't practice!
speaker3: my grandma got mugged.
speaker1: oh. i'm sorry. is she o.k.?
speaker3: she died.
speaker1: i'm really sorry, lucy. just do the best you can.

speaker1: hi, roberta. 
speaker2: hi, naeem. can i talk to your mom for a minute?
speaker2: look, i didn't come up here to rescue anybody. i'm a single mother and i needed a job. and i know you think you're protecting your son, but you're not. i mean, what if arthur ashe's mother had stopped him from playing tennis because it's a "white man's game"? the important thing is that when naeem plays music, his whole face lights up. you should see him.

speaker1: we all have to take turns cleaning up, o.k.? 
speaker1: yeah, right.

speaker1: first finger on the e! three -- two -- one -- open! wrong string, becky! we've done this fourteen times! and look at your nails! you're supposed to cut them for violin class! o.k, everybody stop! it sounds horrible! i can't believe how bad it sounds! 
speaker1: is this an important question, tanisha?
speaker2: do you have two of those skirts?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you wore a skirt just like it on monday.
speaker1: you know, tanisha -- i don't think that's such an important question. o.k. let's try --
speaker3: naeem and i were wondering if he could still be in the class.
speaker1: i'd love that. you'll have a lot of catching up to do. you think you can work that hard?
speaker4: yeah, i can.
speaker1: maybe we can also arrange some private lessons at my house.
speaker3: i wouldn't have the money for that.
speaker1: that's o.k.
speaker1: let's try it again.
speaker1: what are you playing?
speaker5: twinkle.
speaker1: everyone stop! let me hear.
speaker1: did someone teach you that?
speaker5: no. i made it up.
speaker1: that's really great, lucy. i'm proud of you.
speaker1: all of you -- try it.

speaker1: you're shouting at them. all the time. 
speaker2: not all the time. but if they don't listen --
speaker1: didn't you tell them that they were making their parents sick?
speaker2: that wasn't exactly what i said --
speaker1: i'm raising becky in a supportive atmosphere. i don't send her to school to be abused.
speaker2: i'm just trying to discipline them. if they're gonna learn an instrument, they need to take it seriously --
speaker3: i think what mrs. lamb is trying to say, roberta, is that you're a little too harsh. i'm sure you might be able to soften some of your comments to the children?

speaker1: well, that was... that was pretty good... that wasn't too bad... 
speaker2: it wasn't? i thought we stunk.
speaker1: i wouldn't put it that way... you all just need to practice a bit more. james, have you practiced this week?
speaker1: can you please try a little harder for next week?
speaker1: good. just do the best you can.
speaker2: why you acting like that?
speaker1: like what?
speaker2: nice.
speaker1: don't you want a nice teacher?
speaker2: i already got nice teachers. you added some variety.
speaker3: yeah. we like you better the way you used to be.
speaker1: oh. what about you, becky?
speaker4: yeah. this is even worse. you're acting weird now.
speaker1: well, then -- i take it back. you all stunk.
speaker1: but don't tell your parents i said so!

speaker1: can't you come with us? please? 
speaker2: honey, i told you. this is daddy's special time with you.
speaker3: i'll take good care of them.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: santa claus.
speaker2: i'm back.

speaker1: o.k., enough goofing off -- back to work. 
speaker2: you trying to kill me? she laughs and they kiss.
speaker3: i was the only person in the whole coffee shop not speaking spanish. roberta rolls her eyes. o.s. a car backfires.
speaker3: you hear that? gunshots! how you gonna live here by yourself? boys, come eat!
speaker1: i work in this neighborhood, mama. i want to live here.
speaker3: what's your name?
speaker4: lawrence.
speaker3: you hungry, lawrence?
speaker3: why did you let her buy this house?
speaker2: hey, your daughter does what she wants -- or haven't you noticed?
speaker3: i've noticed.

speaker1: i still don't understand the rush. 
speaker2: having my own place will make me feel like i'm really starting my life again.
speaker1: but if you invested your divorce settlement, you could buy something nice someday. it's bad enough that you've been renting in this neighborhood, but to lock yourself into a mortgage --
speaker2: mama, please. just stop!
speaker2: don't worry, o.k.? besides, if things keep going well, i'm sure eventually brian will move in with us.
speaker1: how much do you know about this man?
speaker2: brian's a good person, he's helped me a lot, he's great with the boys -- since he got back to town, it's been really sweet.
speaker1: and how long has he been back?
speaker2: two months.
speaker1: that's not very long. don't make the same mistake twice, bert. you barely knew charles when you married him.
speaker2: i don't get it -- you're ragging on me about buying the house -- i would think you'd want brian to live with me.
speaker1: not if he's the wrong person.
speaker2: get ready, now -- we're coming up to the fermata...
speaker2: hold... hold... don't anybody move. now at the spring concert, the audience is gonna be dying for that next note -- but we'll make them wait. as a matter of fact, i think i'll go grab a cup of coffee.
speaker2: well, o.k. but you have to promise you'll all start together.
speaker3: man. we'll never get that right.
speaker2: that's not a very nice thing to say about your classmates. how many people think they can get it right by the concert?

speaker1: i love you. 
speaker1: did you just laugh?
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's just...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: why do people feel like the minute something's going great, they gotta name it? once you name something, you snuff the life out of it.
speaker1: brian. do you still get away with that crap? it's not the sixties anymore.
speaker2: well, maybe if you'd actually gone through the sixties, you'd know what i'm talking about.
speaker1: fine! we won't name it, we won't talk about it, we'll act like we have no feelings for each other whatsoever!
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm being an you can say you love me if you want.
speaker1: forget it. i changed my mind.

speaker1: how's it coming, ernie? 
speaker2: well, if i could just remember what i did here yesterday, i'd be moving a whole lot faster. you look real pretty today, honey.
speaker3: you're crazy. why did you hire him?
speaker1: he needed a job. besides, he's wired all of east harlem.
speaker3: when? fifty years ago?
speaker1: why is there wallpaper on it?
speaker4: that's how it comes.
speaker2: yep, that's how it comes now.
speaker3: what the is this?
speaker1: sheetrock.
speaker3: you've gotta be kidding. those ex- cons you hired ripped this off -- and you too!
speaker1: look -- this house is taking every penny of my settlement. i can't afford fancy union workers!
speaker3: fine. do it your way.

speaker1: i'm giving him a two-day suspension -- but next time he'll be expelled. 
speaker2: there won't be a next time -- i promise.
speaker1: have you noticed your son lately? he's tied up in knots and he needs help.
speaker2: janet, kids fight. you're making too much of this.
speaker1: he was choking the kid. nick's in trouble, roberta. you need to deal with it.

speaker1: keep playing, guys. 
speaker1: you can watch when we're done.
speaker2: it's my house! they don't live here -- i do!
speaker1: nick honey -- the kids are real nervous about the spring concert. you could probably give them some pointers.
speaker2: i don't feel like it.
speaker1: i said no.

speaker1: good catch nick! 
speaker2: don't! don't throw me in!
speaker1: whatsa matter? afraid of a little water? the ducks aren't afraid! are you a chicken or a duck?
speaker2: don't! don't throw me!
speaker1: looks like you got yourself a chicken, roberta!
speaker2: i'm not a chicken!
speaker1: well then you must be a duck!
speaker3: throw me in the water, brian! do it to me!

speaker1: you seem to be the only one who can get nick to laugh these days. 
speaker2: he misses his dad. i'm just a surrogate.
speaker1: no -- i think nick really likes you. you know... we're all hoping you'll move into the new house with us.
speaker2: whoa. can we just slow down here a minute? it's too much like getting married.
speaker1: what's so bad about that?
speaker2: that kind of commitment just isn't realistic. i mean, how can we know that you and i will even be able to stand each other in five years?
speaker1: well, we don't. but if two people care about each other, they take a chance.
speaker2: and look what happened to you and charles.
speaker1: i'm not talking about charles. i'm talking about us.
speaker2: look, roberta. marriage is based on a belief that one person can completely meet another person's needs. i just don't buy that.
speaker1: what are you saying? if there's some need you have that i don't meet, you'd go and get it "met" by someone else? he heaves a sigh of frustration, not wanting to answer the question.
speaker2: i'm saying that it's the 80's and it's a fantasy to think of marriage lasting these days. one out of two marriages ends in divorce!
speaker1: you didn't answer my question. if i don't meet all your needs, and we're in a committed relationship -- forget marriage for a minute; i'm just talking about a relationship -- would you go to someone else?
speaker2: in theory, yes.
speaker1: in theory.
speaker2: roberta, we've got something good right now -- that's the important thing. let's just keep it that way,

speaker1: why can't he? 
speaker2: he just can't, o.k.? brian's at his house tonight, and we're at ours.
speaker1: well then i wanna go to his house.
speaker2: enough, nick. now why don't you and your brother practice while i make dinner.
speaker1: i don't feel like practicing.
speaker2: well do it anyway.
speaker1: i wanna go to brian's!
speaker2: stop whining, and get your violin.
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker1: the problem with you is you're mean to everybody and then they don't want to be with you!
speaker2: i've heard just about enough from you, young man. now set your violin up properly and start practicing.
speaker1: i hate the violin!
speaker2: you pick that violin up right now and don't you ever ever --
speaker1: it's all your fault! you made daddy leave and you're gonna make brian leave too! you're gonna be all alone and i'll have to take care of you!
speaker2: nick -- you don't have to take care of me.
speaker1: then who's going to?
speaker2: i'll take care of myself -- and i'll take care of you and lexi. i promise.
speaker1: you didn't try hard enough. you made daddy leave us.
speaker2: that's not true. i begged him not to leave, but he didn't listen.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: your father met someone he liked more than mommy, and then --
speaker1: who?
speaker2: lana. remember our friends lana and tom?
speaker1: is he gonna marry her now?
speaker2: no, but he's not coming back... to me.
speaker2: i'll take care of you, nick. you too, lexi. i promise. i'm not going anywhere. we're still a family.
speaker2: i promise.

speaker1: what color is this? 
speaker2: white.
speaker1: i told you eggshell.
speaker2: eggshells are white.
speaker3: you're an i told you -- you can't be your own contractor.
speaker1: you're right. i'm an
speaker1: wake up, ernie.
speaker1: you're fired.
speaker1: you're fired.
speaker1: you're fired.
speaker3: that's more like it.
speaker1: you're fired too.
speaker1: no, brian. i mean it. i need to be with a man who can make a commitment to me. i need that, and my sons need that. so can you?
speaker3: roberta --
speaker1: get out.

speaker1: c'mon everybody, settle down -- janet wants to talk to you. 
speaker2: today's a very special day because we're starting the tenth year of the east harlem violin program. this is a wonderful opportunity for you, so i want you to talk to your parents about whether you'd like to try this.
speaker1: my daughter took violin with roberta when she was your age, and now she's in high school and she still talks about how much she loved it.
speaker3: janet and i started this program because we knew how much you kids could benefit from it.
speaker3: you should know, however, that the violin is a difficult instrument.
speaker4: who's that lady in the back?
speaker2: that's dorothea van hauften --
speaker4: say what? what kinda name is that?
speaker1: justin -- sshh!
speaker2: -- and she's taking pictures of roberta's classes for a magazine article about music education.
speaker4: i wanna be in the magazine!
speaker1: first things first, justin. roberta's gonna explain to you about the "lottery."
speaker5: i used to just teach fifty kids at this school. but now i teach a hundred and fifty kids at three east harlem schools and there's so many children who want to take violin classes that we have to have a lottery.
speaker6: can i be in the class?
speaker1: roberta's explaining that. just listen.
speaker5: after your parents sign your permission slips, i'm gonna put them in a sack, and i'll pick fifty names from each school.
speaker5: so everyone bring in your slips by friday, and i'll come back and tell you who's in violin class.
speaker1: remember, she's just picking names from a hat. it doesn't mean that anyone's better than anyone else.
speaker7: i really really hope that i get in the class.
speaker5: i hope so too.

speaker1: how come you guys don't play the violin? 
speaker2: well, picture her being your teacher and your mother.
speaker3: hi rachel. be right with you.
speaker3: you're gonna practice upstairs?
speaker4: no. i'm done.
speaker3: already? you've barely practiced.
speaker4: what -- are you timing me with a stop watch? why don't you pick on lexi for a change?
speaker2: 'cause i'm perfect.
speaker2: have a good lesson.
speaker2: i'll be back in a couple of hours.
speaker3: be careful.

speaker1: can i try your bike? 
speaker2: i'm gonna be leaving pretty soon.
speaker3: just wanna take it for a spin.
speaker4: c'mon, henry -- he don't want to loan you his bike.
speaker3: i didn't hear him say that. is that true? did you say that?

speaker1: vibrato... don't wiggle your wrist. 
speaker2: dang! i can't get that right.
speaker1: you almost have it.
speaker2: almost isn't good enough.
speaker1: did i turn you into such a perfectionist?
speaker2: no. i came that way.
speaker1: just as long as you get it right for your julliard audition.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i've recommended you for a gifted kids scholarship. rachel looks at her in wide-eyed gratitude.
speaker1: where's the bike?

speaker1: mom, please. don't do this to me! 
speaker2: c'mon, mom -- why don't you let me handle this?
speaker3: are we getting closer, lawrence?
speaker4: it's the next block up.
speaker1: you don't have to do this. i'll pay you back.
speaker3: how? it took me six months to save up for it.
speaker2: i'll help him, o.k.? we'll both pay you back.
speaker1: or we'll ask dad -- he'll help us out.
speaker3: yeah, right.
speaker4: o.k., slow down. it's the second one on the right.

speaker1: c'mon mom, let's get out of here. 
speaker2: lock the doors.
speaker3: i'm dead. she's gonna get me killed.
speaker1: i'm coming with you!
speaker2: no. get back in the car and stay with the boys.
speaker4: don't take the stairs!

speaker1: yeah? 
speaker2: i'm a school teacher. henry has taken my son's bicycle and i want it back.
speaker1: henry's not here.
speaker2: well you tell henry that if he returns the bike, i won't have to notify the police -- or his school principal. although since i am a teacher, it would be very easy for me to do that.
speaker1: he's not home. he doesn't get home till late.
speaker2: how late?
speaker1: not till after ten.
speaker2: i'll be on the steps of cpe 1 at 11 p.m. i'll be waiting for him.

speaker1: you're crazy. he's not gonna show. 
speaker2: you think he actually cares that you're a teacher? you think he even goes to school?
speaker1: c'mon, mom -- let's just go.
speaker3: it's only five after eleven.
speaker4: i was just borrowing it.

speaker1: shandra wilson. 
speaker1: justin brady.
speaker1: vanessa klein.
speaker1: o.k. one more name...
speaker1: leonard hood.
speaker2: it's too hard! i don't wanna do it!
speaker3: don't you even wanna try, leonard?
speaker2: i don't want to!
speaker1: well, o.k. then. i'll pick someone else. ramon olivas.

speaker1: this is to inform you that your child, ramon olivas, has been chosen by lottery to be in the violin program. 
speaker2: you happy?
speaker2: i think you're happy.

speaker1: does that really work? 
speaker2: no. but i keep trying. and maybe someday the school will give me a parking space!
speaker3: wait --

speaker1: those copies are for you. 
speaker2: thank you. can i... pay for you them?
speaker1: don't be silly. besides -- you'll need your money for parking tickets.
speaker1: what you're doing for these children is wonderful. my husband's a violinist -- he was quite impressed when i told him about you.
speaker2: what's his name?
speaker1: arnold steinhardt.
speaker2: of the guarneri string quartet?
speaker1: stay in touch. let us know when the kids have a concert.
speaker3: don't be late for violin class! i hear the teacher's really mean.

speaker1: amanda, what did i tell you about wearing cowboy boots to violin class? they're too slippery! 
speaker1: relax your two, simon...
speaker1: your stop sign has to be up, kenny! stephanie, it doesn't look like you ever had a lesson with me!
speaker1: where's your violin, carlos?
speaker2: it's coming.
speaker1: what, is it walking here by itself?
speaker1: your buddies giving you a hard time?
speaker2: look, it's just not cool. you wouldn't understand.
speaker1: hey, you want your sister to carry your violin, that's fine. but is she practicing for you too? because lately, that's how it sounds.
speaker2: i've been busy! i've been --
speaker1: i'm not interested! just get here on time, and commit to this class or i don't want you in here, you understand?
speaker1: you're a good violinist, carlos -- and it's definitely not "cool" to waste your own talent.

speaker1: why didn't you show it to me? 
speaker2: it just needed one parent's signature.
speaker1: well, i'm his parent and i don't give permission! he should be playing baseball, not the violin!
speaker2: it makes him happy.

speaker1: ooh, check out little miss violinhead. 
speaker2: she carry that violin with her all the time 'cause she think she special.
speaker3: i am special.
speaker3: so i heard from julliard.
speaker4: and?
speaker3: they said yes!

speaker1: more bow! to the frog! myesha, your stop sign line should be touching. don't let it wiggle! you're on the wrong string, justin! and look at your feet! 
speaker1: where's your violin?
speaker2: i forgot.
speaker1: goodbye! and you may be dropped.
speaker1: look at those nails, rosario!
speaker1: i see you over there, myesha.
speaker1: you're doing much better.
speaker3: drop dead, justin!
speaker4: it was a accident!
speaker3: was not!
speaker1: ramon, i don't like that kind of talk. justin, pick up his stand, now! our spring concert is in three weeks and you might not be in it. is that what you want?

speaker1: mr. klein? i'm gonna have to drop vanessa from the class if she keeps forgetting her violin. 
speaker2: she's going back and forth between houses. my wife and i split up.
speaker1: oh. i'm sorry.
speaker1: vanessa, maybe you could write down for your mom and dad which days are violin days.
speaker3: the tape doesn't stick.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: i taped the music to the wall at my mom's house and then i took it to my dad's house and it doesn't stick anymore.
speaker1: well you know what? that's an easy problem to solve.
speaker1: now you have two, o.k.? one for each house.

speaker1: you wanna hear my new song, papa? 
speaker2: not right now.
speaker3: we made mistakes with pedro and ernesto and we can't fix them now, but ramon -- he works so hard. the violin makes him want to be good at everything.

speaker1: you go to heaven... you go to hell... you go to hell... heaven... 
speaker2: my grandpa died and my uncle, so that makes six.
speaker3: i know more than that. at least seven people... maybe even nine.
speaker4: i know that you've all heard the bad news about justin.
speaker5: i didn't hear.
speaker2: there was a drive-by shooting by his house and he got shot on accident and he died.
speaker4: does anyone want to talk about it?
speaker1: i think we should just play violin.

speaker1: roberta! come in. 
speaker2: i came by to check on ramon.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: didn't he tell you what happened at school?

speaker1: roberta wants to talk to you, o.k.? 
speaker2: did that sound o.k.?
speaker3: yeah, it did.
speaker3: i've been thinking about justin. remember how mad i got the last time i saw him?
speaker2: yeah. you got very strict with him.
speaker3: it wasn't always so easy to be nice to him, you know?
speaker2: you think justin's in heaven or hell?
speaker3: heaven.
speaker2: i told him to drop dead.
speaker3: justin didn't die because of what you said. i promise.
speaker2: how do you know?
speaker3: i don't think you're that powerful, do you? i mean, if you had such powers, just imagine what kind of violin player you'd be by now!
speaker2: yeah. i'd be better than you!
speaker3: it's o.k. to cry, you know.
speaker2: not for a man.
speaker3: my boys still cry and they're big, strong young men now. i bet justin's daddy cried.

speaker1: we were just trying to help! 
speaker2: this is humiliating!
speaker1: mom, no one knows it's you! i mean, you don't even have to read them if you don't want to. although obviously, a lot of guys are interested in dating you.
speaker2: no. a lot of guys are interested in dating you and lexi. what did you say about me, anyway?
speaker1: "beautiful musician, late 40's, tired of playing solo --
speaker3: -- seeks a healthy, stable, attractive man who's not afraid of a duet with a strong, independent woman.
speaker1: my violin playing will feed your soul...
speaker3: ...and my lasagna will be music to your palate."
speaker2: oh, my
speaker3: did you catch all the music metaphors?
speaker2: don't you think it's a little weird that you're trying to get your mother a date?
speaker1: don't you think it's a little weird that you're not even interested in dating?
speaker2: boys, look. number one -- even if i wanted to date, i don't have time. and number two -- i've got my teaching, i've got you guys -- that's all i need.
speaker3: i really thought she'd like the music metaphors.

speaker1: i think you're flat, nick. 
speaker2: i'm not flat.
speaker1: the b sounded flat.
speaker2: just play the violin, mom. i'll take care of the cello.
speaker3: you nervous, mom?
speaker1: no. i'm fine.

speaker1: wow. an honest woman. 
speaker2: honest?
speaker1: your ad. when you said you were beautiful, you were telling the truth.
speaker3: make sure you're home by midnight, young lady.

speaker1: it reads 12:30. 
speaker2: ten bucks he tries to kiss her.
speaker3: that's a no-brainer. of course he'll try. the real question is whether she'll let him.
speaker2: o.k. -- ten bucks she lets him.
speaker3: you're on.

speaker1: i had a lot of fun tonight. 
speaker2: yeah, i did too.
speaker1: i have a confession -- i've never answered an ad before. i did it on a dare.
speaker2: well, i have a confession -- my boys placed the ad behind my back.
speaker2: look, dan -- i went along with this 'cause it's been a while. quite a while... and i had a very nice time... but i'm not sure if i'm ready to get involved with anyone right now.
speaker1: does this mean i don't get any lasagna?

speaker1: why are you guys still up? 
speaker2: why? is it late?
speaker1: good try, nick.
speaker3: so how was it?
speaker1: well... he's nice.
speaker2: "nice"? as in "let's just be friends" nice?
speaker1: i don't know yet. we'll see.
speaker2: there's still a lot more letters.
speaker1: good night, nick.
speaker3: hey, mom -- can you loan me ten dollars?

speaker1: guys, i'm so sorry -- i got stuck over at cpe 2... 
speaker1: what's going on? where are all your violins?
speaker2: we heard you got fired.
speaker1: what?!

speaker1: is it true? 
speaker2: why don't you come in my office?
speaker1: it's true? you're firing me?
speaker2: it's not me, roberta. the board of ed. cut the budget, the district had to comply, and as of the end of this term, the violin program has been... excessed.
speaker1: excessed. they specifically said that my violin program has to go.
speaker2: they've slashed the budget -- music and art programs got hit the worst.
speaker1: what about dennis' classes?
speaker3: i'm tenured, roberta.
speaker1: when was this decided?
speaker2: things happened very quickly... i wanted to tell you myself --
speaker1: i just... i can't even believe this is happening!
speaker3: why not? you're a sub. your position has never been permanent.
speaker2: shut up, dennis! you're not helping! come into my office, please.

speaker1: there's gotta be a way to fight this! 
speaker2: fight it with what? i don't have any other extra programs to give them instead.
speaker1: oh, i see. so after ten years, after fourteen hundred children have learned to play the violin, this is just an "extra program."
speaker2: you know i don't feel that way and you know well i've been standing by you all these years! you think i haven't noticed what you've done for these kids?
speaker1: then do something!
speaker2: i've been on this phone for the past three days trying to "do something" -- the district office can't even stand the sound of my voice. believe me, there are some people around here i'd much rather get rid of. but as far as the board's concerned, violin classes are not a priority.
speaker2: i don't have the power here, roberta. i'm so sorry.

speaker1: sitting at the kitchen table with a glass of wine, her face ashen. 
speaker2: what happened?

speaker1: i'm a good teacher. i've worked so hard to give these kids something to be proud of. 
speaker2: i'm so sorry, mom. i can't believe they did this to you.
speaker1: it's like when my father got killed. for twenty years, he followed every safety rule the factory had, and then someone else flips the wrong switch... it's not fair. you do everything right and then...
speaker3: it's the wrong analogy. you couldn't do anything about grandpa's death. it was irreversible. this isn't.
speaker1: tell that to the board of education.
speaker3: let me ask you something. why did you risk your life for a bicycle?
speaker1: i did not risk my life.
speaker3: of course you did! that building? threatening henry? and for what -- two hundred dollars?
speaker1: no. not for that.
speaker2: then why?
speaker1: when someone steals something that belongs to my kids, i'm not gonna sit back and let that happen!
speaker1: guys -- you need to think about this. if i try to fight this -- with no salary coming in -- i could lose the house, screw up your college plans... it would be a lot safer to just go out tomorrow and get a job in a private school.
speaker2: yeah, but is that where you really want to be?

speaker1: someone's early. 
speaker2: hello, assunta. how are you?
speaker3: i'd be a lot better if my daughter had a job next year.
speaker1: ma!
speaker2: i would too.
speaker2: sorry i'm early, but i figured we'd need time to set up.
speaker1: mama, why don't you take allegra out for a walk?
speaker2: you are having a meeting here tonight, right? parents and teachers?
speaker1: well, yes, but ...
speaker2: take it from me. if you want to get parents to help you with something, you have to feed them.
speaker2: you have a cutting board for these?
speaker2: and if you think parents are bad, teachers are even worse, no offense. if you don't feed them, you never get anything extra out of them. that's why i got this.
speaker2: entenmann's gets them every time.
speaker2: what? don't tell me you expected me to bring something homemade.
speaker1: well, no... i --
speaker2: good. because take it from me -- my own family begs me to stay out of the kitchen.
speaker1: what i didn't expect was for you to be here.
speaker2: why not? we've gotta figure out a way to fight this. after ten years, roberta, i can't imagine walking through those hallways and not hearing that off-key, screechy, scratchy, nails-on-the- blackboard violin music.
speaker2: what do you think? cut it into slices now, or leave it whole?
speaker1: let's cut it now. it'll be less messy.

speaker1: don't they realize how much this program helps the kids? 
speaker2: simon's our third child to study with roberta. james is pre-med, april's valedictorian -- now that says something!
speaker3: i think we should inundate the board and the district with letters.
speaker4: you're wasting your time. the board and the district are not gonna pay for this program, no matter how many letters they get.
speaker1: what if we raise the money ourselves?
speaker4: i can't see how they'd object to that.
speaker5: well once that newspaper article comes out, that should help bring in money.
speaker6: yeah, but what if it doesn't? for all we know, it's gonna be buried on the back page. besides, who says anyone's gonna give a about our kids?
speaker7: what if you do a benefit concert? we can raise a batch of money from ticket sales, and then the concert itself could be great publicity. there's word of mouth... you could get reviewed...
speaker8: it better be a good concert!
speaker8: we have to offer something more than me and the kids. do you think maybe your husband would perform with us?
speaker7: i'm sure i could persuade him with a little pillow talk. and maybe he can get another violinist too -- itzhak perlman, perhaps.
speaker8: that would be fantastic.
speaker7: we could rent a place like the 92nd street y -- it's perfect for this. it seats about nine hundred people and if we charge between fifty and a hundred a ticket --
speaker1: we could probably raise enough to reinstate your program for a year.
speaker4: sounds like a plan.
speaker8: it better be a good concert.
speaker9: take your pick.

speaker1: kids, listen to me -- it's really important that you don't look at the camera and you try to act as natural as possible. 
speaker2: who authorized this?
speaker1: janet.
speaker2: well janet's not here today and i want these people out of here.
speaker2: turn that off, you hear me?
speaker1: why are you doing this? we're not bothering anyone.
speaker2: you're disrupting school and i want them out of here -- now.
speaker1: you still don't get it, do you? i don't care if you hate me, dennis -- that's your business. but think about the students for once. every time you interfere, you're not hurting me -- you're hurting them.
speaker2: get these people out of here or i'm calling the police.
speaker1: go right ahead, call them. that'll look real good on the eleven o'clock news.
speaker3: i don't hear no sirens.

speaker1: i'm from a blue collar family, and if it weren't for the lessons i got in public school, i never would have learned the violin. 
speaker2: how does it make you feel to lose your violin program?
speaker3: it makes us sad!
speaker4: yeah, like we're never gonna have no more violin lessons --
speaker5: and it's bad because... because we love violin class.

speaker1: yes, i've gotten offers from two private schools, but this is where i want to be. 
speaker2: arnold, these kids need help.
speaker3: didn't we send them a donation?
speaker2: they need something bigger. and you can't just write a check -- you have to get involved.
speaker3: involved how?
speaker3: uh-oh.

speaker1: listen up, everyone! quiet down! 
speaker1: you are my very best beginner and advanced violin students and i've chosen you to play in fiddlefest because i trust that you can handle the pressure. it's gonna be a lot of work -- a lot. right now, we've sold some tickets, but i'm not gonna be back here in the fall if the audience storms out of their seats, demanding a refund!
speaker1: rachel's gonna be my lieutenant and i expect you to listen to her.
speaker2: bach's "minuet one"?
speaker1: people are gonna be paying good money for this concert -- we're not just gonna play "twinkle." i'm passing out a contract that you and your parents need to sign.
speaker3: every saturday and sunday?
speaker1: plus night time rehearsals during the week. there's only six weeks till the concert, so classes in school won't be enough.
speaker1: come to think of it, we'll probably also need to meet before school.
speaker1: you've heard of navy seal training? well, this is gonna be roberta string training.
speaker1: oh my naeem! de sean! guadalupe!
speaker1: lucy? is that you?
speaker1: kids, these are four of my very first violin students and i've asked them to play in the concert with us. i was just telling them how hard they're gonna have to work.
speaker4: take it from me -- this lady don't lie. y'all are gonna work your butts off.

speaker1: hey carlos! where ya goin'? we got a game, remember? 
speaker2: yeah, i know, but... i can't make it.
speaker1: what you talkin' about?
speaker2: i just can't make it.
speaker3: you got a date with the violin teacher?
speaker2: yeah. i do.

speaker1: frog! frog! i need more accents on the down beat! more bow! more! 
speaker1: stop! stop! you sound horrible! isn't anyone practicing?
speaker2: how can we practice? we're rehearsing all the time.
speaker1: you think this is funny, stephanie? you think the four hundred people who've bought tickets so far will think it's funny too? you think itzhak perlman will think it's funny that he's donating his time and you're all gonna stink?
speaker1: am i boring you, vanessa?
speaker3: no. it's 7:30 in the morning. i'm just tired.
speaker1: there's no time to be tired. let's try it again.

speaker1: i must have been crazy to agree to this. they're never gonna be ready. and you should hear the bach double! a disaster. so the good news is tickets are selling like hot cakes, but the bad news is that the kids sound like 
speaker2: there's more bad news... we've lost the y.
speaker1: what?!
speaker2: they had a flood -- a water heater burst... the concert hall was damaged and they've cancelled all events.
speaker1: until when?
speaker2: "until further notice."
speaker1: this can't happen! we've sold tickets! we've done publicity! the concert's in three weeks!
speaker2: i've been on the phone all morning calling other theaters. nothing's available.
speaker1: just keep looking.

speaker1: stop! someone's playing the wrong notes! and you shouldn't need your music anymore! except for the bach double, everything has to be memorized by next rehearsal! 
speaker1: and you sound like you're sleepwalking. your heart's not even in it.
speaker2: maybe 'cause we don't have a place for the concert.
speaker1: well, you're right. this might all be for nothing. so we can either keep on rehearsing in case we find a place -- or we can just... give up.
speaker3: am i hearing right? did you use the words "give up"? let's take a vote. how many of you want to give up?
speaker4: see? you taught us well.

speaker1: what about in the bronx? 
speaker2: there's nothing. why don't you just do it in one of the schools? it'll be a lot smaller but --
speaker1: we won't make enough money.
speaker3: what about postponing it?
speaker1: itzhak and arnold are booked all summer.
speaker4: it's dorothea.
speaker4: i have good news -- really good news. arnold got a call from his friend wally scheur who heard about us losing the y and wanted to see how he could help -- and then wally had this brilliant idea and called his friend isaac stern and it's all arranged! we have a new place for fiddlefest!
speaker1: where?
speaker4: carnegie hall.
speaker1: carnegie hall?

speaker1: incredible sound in this room, no? 
speaker2: oh my -- isaac stern.
speaker3: you must be roberta.
speaker2: thank you so much for helping us.
speaker3: would you believe in 1960, they tried to tear this place down? they wanted to replace it with a bright red skyscraper -- we called it "the red terror."
speaker2: you're kidding.
speaker3: we had to fight like hell, but with a lot of help, we saved carnegie hall.
speaker3: if it's all right with you, i'd like to play in your concert. maybe bring a couple of friends...
speaker2: yes, of course! that would be great!
speaker3: don't give up.

speaker1: i just don't see how i'm gonna do this. it's huge. it's gigantic! it's carnegie hall! and listen to this: now isaac stern wants to play with us -- diane monroe, michael tree -- there's other people calling -- 
speaker2: that's fantastic!
speaker1: fantastic? i'll never get the kids up to speed in time, i'll never get myself up to speed. i'm gonna be playing side by side with the world's greatest violinists.
speaker2: and "the world's greatest violinists" are playing side by side with you because they want to help you win this fight.
speaker1: yes, but... you don't understand. maybe there's a good reason why i never made it as a violinist -- maybe i just can't cut it. i keep blaming it on not having enough early training, but if i were talented, if i had a gift --
speaker2: but you do have a gift. you're gonna put thirty east harlem kids on stage at carnegie hall not because they're prodigies, but because you got them to stick with something that's hard as and to strive for excellence -- which, by the way, i certainly wasn't striving for when i was their age. not to mention the other ten years' worth of students whose lives were changed because of you. that's your talent, roberta.
speaker1: i'm scared.
speaker2: i know. and by the way, i happen to think you're a pretty good violinist too.
speaker1: you've barely heard me play.
speaker2: i've heard enough to know you're gonna do just fine.
speaker2: besides, no one's gonna be paying attention to your playing anyway.

speaker1: teacher's late. i think she should be dropped, don't you? 
speaker2: yeah. i don't think we should let her play in fiddlefest!
speaker1: more bow! to the frog! you sound terrible! i can't believe how terrible you sound!
speaker1: you're gonna make everyone in carnegie hall sick to their stomachs! that's right, they're gonna pay a thousand dollars a ticket and you're gonna make them throw up on their gowns and tuxedos!
speaker3: if you're gonna imitate me, do it right. shoulders back. violin higher. check your feet. there. g'head, carlos. continue.
speaker1: no, that's o.k. you can take it from here.
speaker3: he's right, by the way. you do sound terrible, and you are gonna make everyone in carnegie hall sick to their stomachs.
speaker4: i need to talk to you.
speaker3: i'll be right in. start on minuet one. what's wrong?
speaker4: we're moving away.
speaker3: what? where are you moving?
speaker4: it's a secret... my father... he's been hurting my mom... we have to leave.
speaker3: has he been hurting you too?
speaker4: i'm sorry about julliard... and the concert.
speaker3: keep it. take it with you.
speaker4: no... i don't want to play anymore.
speaker3: what?! you can't give up violin, rachel -- it's a part of you. a very important part.
speaker3: please honey. just take it.
speaker4: i don't want to.

speaker1: no, no, no! accent the up bow after the slurred notes and then it'll get you off of those slurred notes! you double concerto kids need to be working harder! this is the grand finale of the concert! you're each gonna be sharing a music stand with one of the world's greatest violinists! 
speaker1: i think we should forget the bach double. and you guys are never gonna get minuet one. i think we should drop that too.
speaker2: no! we can do it, roberta!
speaker3: and we'll get the bach double. we will.
speaker4: it's gonna be o.k., roberta.
speaker1: you think?

speaker1: nick -- did you feed allegra? 
speaker2: yes, mom.
speaker1: lexi, can you make sure the charts are still in my bag?
speaker3: i already checked, mom.
speaker1: check again, please. and look for my repair kit too.
speaker4: bert, which earrings you want?
speaker1: nick? get two more violins.
speaker2: you've already got two -- how many emergencies can there be?
speaker1: get three more. and make sure a couple of them are half-size.
speaker1: lexi -- can you call about the car again?
speaker3: mom, they're not gonna forget to send a car!
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: just straightening a little.
speaker2: you're insane, you know that? finish getting dressed!

speaker1: can you believe this? 
speaker1: it can't be time! is it time?
speaker2: i'll sew it in the car.

speaker1: thank you, mama. 
speaker2: don't worry about it. you rip -- i sew.
speaker1: not just for that. thank you for getting me out of bed.
speaker2: don't thank me -- thank charles.
speaker1: charles?!
speaker2: if that jerk hadn't of left you, none of this would've happened.
speaker1: thank you, charles.

speaker1: where's vanessa? has anyone seen vanessa? 
speaker2: i'll call her house.
speaker3: congratulations.
speaker1: thank you...
speaker3: i knew you'd get here sooner or later. i'm glad i'm here to see it.
speaker1: i am too.

speaker1: excuse me, mr. perlman? 
speaker1: i'm guadalupe. i've wanted to meet you for a long time.
speaker2: a pleasure to meet you, guadalupe.
speaker3: you nervous, mr. perlman?
speaker2: should i be?
speaker3: us kids are gonna be great -- i don't know about you guys. how much did you practice?

speaker1: you called vanessa's father and mother? 
speaker2: no answer at either.
speaker3: half hour call! it's now half hour call! so pace yourself accordingly. don't get more than thirty minutes worth of nervous!

speaker1: they stole the car! 
speaker2: with the violin.
speaker3: oh my nick, lexi --
speaker4: done.
speaker1: and then when we were getting a taxi, i fell down.
speaker5: c'mon honey -- let's get you cleaned up.
speaker6: you're glowing.
speaker3: it's terror.

speaker1: the tension in the room shoots sky high. 
speaker2: when i became the principal of central park east elementary, i envisioned a school where children could fulfill their highest potential, despite the challenges of poverty and racism. ten years ago, roberta guaspari walked into my office because she needed a job, and because she had a vision that any child could learn the violin. we put our dreams together and created the east harlem violin program which has helped more than a thousand students expand their vision of what's possible in their lives. when a program like this is cut, our children's future is compromised. i want to thank you for your support. enjoy the concert.

speaker1: everyone -- attention please! 
speaker1: i want you all to take a second just to breathe, o.k.? deep breath.
speaker1: i would like you all to play with your heart, all right? play like i know you can play. you'll be wonderful. watch me, don't look out in the audience -- you don't need to be afraid. it's gonna be really wonderful. so play -- play from here.

speaker1: and this? what's this? 
speaker2: the frog hair?
speaker1: did you ever see a frog with hair?
speaker3: it's horsehair!
speaker1: that's right. but you're right, there is a frog. can you show me where it is?
speaker4: ooh! i know!
speaker1: sssh -- let him answer.

