speaker1: sir. sir, may i have a ticket to montreal please? 
speaker2: pardon?
speaker1: i need a ticket to montreal.
speaker2: montreal?
speaker1: yes, sir. please.
speaker2: forty-three dollars.

speaker1: dan soulsby. 
speaker2: martin. nice to meet you.
speaker1: where you heading to?
speaker2: away from here.

speaker1: pisswater. 
speaker2: at least it's cold pisswater. here's to getting away.
speaker2: that was bad. it's gonna take all day to get another bus here.
speaker3: a car rental place.

speaker1: you have a license? 
speaker2: had one. they took it away.
speaker1: i got one. let's go.

speaker1: you take a hockey puck in the face? 
speaker2: a fist. my stepdad socked me. i flew across the room and dented the sheetrock in the kitchen. my mom saw everything and still took his side.
speaker1: you got cracked good.
speaker2: i hate that guy. two hundred pounds of worthless grease.
speaker1: why'd he hit you?
speaker2: i wrecked his sixty-five mustang and his boat in the same week.
speaker1: i would have popped you too.
speaker2: it was worth it. but i didn't deserve the tour in hell.
speaker2: don't ever go to military school if you can help it. it i jumped the wall two days ago.
speaker1: you going back?
speaker2: i'm done with that racket. i'm going to seattle and playing music.
speaker1: i know some chords.
speaker2: think you can learn drums?

speaker1: i just saw my dead son get off the ferry. 
speaker1: listen to me; he's been dead eighteen years. he just walked right past me.

speaker1: you need to open that grave. it can't be my son in there. 
speaker2: i lost my mother two years ago. every day i think i see her. driving to work in the car next to me. at mass. shopping, i see her, but this is someone else's mother. you see?

speaker1: inspector, i'm saddened by your loss and touched by loyalty. but let's focus on the matter at hand. he walked right past me. we made eye contact. i know he recognized me. it was my son. a mother knows these things. i will sign anything, i will swear before a judge. and thank you, i do have all my faculties and friends who can vouch for my character. 
speaker2: did you talk to this man, he is a man now?
speaker1: yes. of course he's a man. he'd be thirty-two. and no, i did not speak with him. i ran. inspector, my son was very, very disturbed. he had serious emotional problems. i assure you he was. is. is a dangerous person.
speaker2: madame. the police department cannot resolve your problem. you need to get permits from the coroner and health and safety department. you pay for an exhumation. you have someone qualified examine the remains. if it is the wrong body, the forensic examiner will confirm there is a problem and call us. then we open an investigation. no, quebec city police will investigate. he is buried there, no?
speaker1: no. inspector. he is not.

speaker1: think she will like this? 
speaker1: we are lucky the fbi is sending her. she is the michael jordan of criminal profiling. the guy le fleuer of profiling. she will save our ass.
speaker1: inspector laval. have the airline check again. look around baggage claim. she was on the flight but they can't find her.

speaker1: oui? 
speaker1: i know where she is.

speaker1: it's okay, i'm supposed to be here. 
speaker2: agent vanderholt, we requested your help. i'm inspector laval, this is inspector reynaud.
speaker1: hi. look, i'm not ready to talk to you guys yet. i need a little more time here.

speaker1: don't shoot, i'm on your team. 
speaker1: call who you have to call. i found his head.

speaker1: i can't tell you how excited we are to have you here. 
speaker2: you only have one victim. usually there's two or three by the time i get called in.
speaker1: this case made page one of the globe. the tabloids say there is a headhunter on the loose.

speaker1: you clear the mayor? 
speaker2: we cleared the mayor. he read the article on you in newsweek and insisted we fly you up. the papers say two campers had a drunken fight and the loser lost his head.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: i don't solve crimes anymore, i balance budgets.
speaker1: this was not a heat of the moment killing. and the victim was buried complete with head. the grave was five-foot ten. the victim's height. with square corners. dug with a shovel the killer had the foresight to bring.
speaker2: thirty-five detectives searched the area saturday. my investigators think you're a witch.
speaker1: i've been called worse.
speaker2: jeez. look at that, looks like he got ice-picked.

speaker1: no. a large canine did that. probably an old or sick timber wolf that couldn't hunt. it dug up the body and chewed off the head. it felt safe in the trees, away from the riverbank, away from the other wolves. 
speaker2: i'd say you're right. postmortem scavenger damage to c-1.
speaker2: the victim was afraid of dentists. bad teeth.
speaker3: this was a meter from the skull. at soil level.
speaker2: look at this.
speaker1: bingo. that's your murder weapon.
speaker3: it might be trash a camper left.

speaker1: no. look at it, braided parachute cord, two pieces of broom stick. you approach the victim from behind, loop it around his head and hold on for all your might. the more the victim struggles, the quicker he passes out. and now you have convenient handles to drag around two hundred pounds of dead kayaker. 
speaker2: that is a theory.
speaker1: that's exactly what it is. a theory. that evidence supports. when the suspect is in custody you can ask him yourself what happened and you won't need me. inspector.
speaker3: laval and reynaud are my stars. very smart, very persistent investigators. on the street; they're magnificent.
speaker1: i can see that director. you're lucky to have them.
speaker1: go ahead, director, say what you have to say.
speaker3: you're the expert. if you have any suggestions on how to proceed...
speaker1: sure. a forensic anthropologist can draw the victim's face based on the skull. i know someone at quantico who can do it by tomorrow.

speaker1: we have people. 
speaker2: call 'em. then show the results to everybody around who was selling outdoor goods two years ago. you have his initials; mrc, inside the wetsuit. the long hair is distinctive, someone may recognize him. it's a semi-long shot.
speaker1: no, that's bread and butter detective work. thank you. we should get upstairs.

speaker1: you found the skull. incredible. 
speaker2: i had a case once where wild dogs had removed remains.
speaker3: so i can tell my people there isn't a headhunter running around the wilds of quebec?
speaker2: no headhunters, sir. however, a killer is out there.

speaker1: director gillet. do you have the victim identified? 
speaker2: no name yet, sir. we have someone from the university recreating his face from the skull.
speaker1: why, after two years, has nobody reported him missing?
speaker3: he wasn't missed. he had no family, or moved often. he had the musculature of a serious outdoorsman. he spent a lot of time in his kayak.
speaker1: the big question is who killed him.
speaker3: always is, sir. i can give you a rough profile; white male, thirty to thirty-four. has some college but no degree. neat in appearance. at least six feet tall. very intelligent. charming when necessary. he uses murder as a tool, probably in furtherance of a criminal endeavor. he's killed before and will again unless caught.
speaker1: we really appreciate the fbi sending you. when can we expect your report?
speaker3: a couple days, sir.

speaker1: say hello to a dead man. 
speaker2: shame. good-looking guy.
speaker1: this is more than we had. thank you.

speaker1: vanderholt? 
speaker2: we named the victim; curtis kohler. the forensic dentist just verified the id.
speaker1: with a c?
speaker2: no. k-o-h-l-e-r. the initials are for the montreal river company. kohler worked there as a guide three years ago. the owner remembers him because he stole the wetsuit.
speaker1: can you do a full records search? criminal, credit, commercial history. transcripts.

speaker1: fruit of the gods. you know you want one. 
speaker2: let's take her down the street. i will not eat one of those hockey pucks.
speaker3: let's go down the street. very good food. we are inviting you. please.

speaker1: very solid time of death. two years ago. 
speaker2: so before he died he got his paychecks, paid his taxes. patronized sporting goods stores. and had long spending gaps where he was enjoying the great outdoors. that pattern continues a year after his death. he gets some paychecks. rents an apartment. buys a three thousand dollar kayak. pays his taxes. dead and buried and still paying his taxes. then everything stops. last visa charge was to travelocity for a plane ticket to mexico city.
speaker1: dead men don't pay their bills.
speaker2: this isn't someone renting limos and fancy dinners on someone else's credit. lifestyle and habits don't change.
speaker1: computer error?
speaker2: too many independent systems.
speaker1: we work organized crime sometimes, maybe a hit man wanted to lay low. he assumed the life of a civilian until things cooled off.
speaker2: you really think a gangster is going to break his stride and become a long hair groovy river guide? inspector, this guy's whole life has been stolen. someone killed him and became him. down to profession and taste in clothing.

speaker1: you are a heavy sleeper. 
speaker2: you're everywhere. what's up, laval?
speaker1: a man was killed tonight. attacked from behind. asphyxiated with a nylon cord with handles. and there's a witness. or a suspect. we're not sure yet. we should go.

speaker1: that's him. he says he saw the killer. 
speaker1: meet mr. todd ford.
speaker2: he's still warm.

speaker1: want to get those? 
speaker1: where is it?
speaker2: there. under his car.
speaker1: holy has le directeur been notified?
speaker2: i'm letting the poor man sleep a couple more minutes. twenty-four hour gym is there, next door. he has a membership card in his wallet. that's his car. car keys.

speaker1: is that our killer? 
speaker2: maybe. so far he checks out as an art dealer from winnipeg.

speaker1: i walk out of the gym. walk to my car. i'm unlocking it and i hear a scuffle, a fight. over by this car i see this guy getting choked from behind and i shouted. 
speaker2: what did you shout?
speaker1: 'stop.' i ran towards them. then the person doing the choking lets go and pointed a gun at me and ran. i'm so stupid. i could of been shot. i called the police gave him cpr until the paramedics came.
speaker2: you touched him?
speaker1: of course. i was giving him cpr.
speaker2: you removed the garrote?
speaker1: the thing around his neck? yes.
speaker2: did you see where the attacker went?
speaker1: away from me.
speaker2: what kind of gun did he have?
speaker1: the kind that puts really big holes in people.
speaker2: was it black? was it silver?

speaker1: black. 
speaker2: okay, see? i am getting information.
speaker1: listen to me. i can draw a picture of his face. i saw him.
speaker2: you want to draw a picture?
speaker1: a sketch. i can sketch him. i'm very good.
speaker2: how could you see his face in the dark?
speaker1: i did not do this. i saw two guys fighting and should of ran the other way but i didn't. you need to find the person who killed this man. you need to find the guy who did this.
speaker3: you need to confirm he's a suspect or clear him and kick-start a manhunt based on costa's id. if he is a legit witness, he'll get heated up and start forgetting details. i think there's a way to clear him without him off.
speaker4: please.

speaker1: inspector. i need a moment with you. 
speaker2: i was getting into his mind.
speaker1: i have a shortcut. can you get any of his school transcripts?
speaker2: sure. it's all on-line.
speaker1: call the winnipeg police and have them fax or e-mail his driver's license photo.

speaker1: i hope you guys are playing bad cop smart cop. 
speaker2: sorry. i'm the one. agent vanderholt. call me grace.
speaker1: thank you. he had these real intense eyes.

speaker1: hold on. before you do that, i need some personal information from you. can you write down the name of the elementary school you attended? and your elementary school teachers, as many as you can remember. 
speaker2: are you kidding me? lady, i saw someone get killed tonight and you're asking me about grade school?
speaker1: i apologize, i know it's random, but it's the best way you can help me.
speaker2: i don't remember any of that.
speaker1: please, mr. costa. you'd be surprised.
speaker2: i attended two. holy trinity and mother of good counsel. i remember sister bernard. and. i don't know, father jeffrey. mr. johansen. oh, and mrs. sebastien, she had a glass eye.
speaker1: may i?
speaker2: omigod. that's it, isn't it?
speaker1: that's what?

speaker1: the thing around his neck. 
speaker1: i told the other guy, i'll tell you. i did not do this. grace. i saw who did this and i can show you what he looks like and you can go catch him.
speaker2: go ahead and draw the face of the man you saw.
speaker2: we'll get an artist to help you.
speaker1: i can draw him, thank you.

speaker1: you left a file in there. 
speaker2: i know. see if he tries to peek in it. the real killer couldn't resist. he'll want to know what we know.

speaker1: can you remember any of your grade school teachers? he remembered three. 
speaker2: here's his provincial driver's license photo. he's checking out.
speaker1: have a nurse take a dna sample. just to make sure his dna isn't in the victim's car or anything weird.
speaker2: we'll run the tests.

speaker1: fell out of his t-shirt when i removed the clothing. it doesn't fit the victim. 
speaker2: wvss. 1995. what's that?
speaker1: west vancouver secondary school class of '95.
speaker2: cwe? whose initials? not the victim's.
speaker1: no. i called the school and had someone find them in a yearbook. here's the original owner's name. but it could have been through a dozen shops since then.
speaker2: doctor, can i take you back to quantico with me?
speaker1: sorry. i must remain where the hockey is good.

speaker1: inspector. 
speaker1: c'mere a second, please.
speaker1: borrow your keys? stand there like you're going to choke me.
speaker1: keys drop straight down, how'd they end up over there under that car?
speaker2: they were kicked. during the struggle.
speaker1: okay. kick them as hard as you can that way.
speaker1: not even halfway.

speaker1: i had this case. this young hundred-pound woman was abducted from a parking lot. she kicked off a mirror, broke a window, dented her door. she struggled. 
speaker2: everything you are saying, you are saying one thing, do we trust costa?
speaker1: good question. do we trust costa?
speaker3: get in.

speaker1: i found a current address here in montreal. 
speaker2: you guys have an extra weapon? i didn't want to cross the border armed.
speaker1: the glove box.

speaker1: i never met him. we conducted our business by phone. 
speaker2: i smell smoke. back where i'm from anyone can kick a door if there's a fire. it's the 'citizen's arrest' of search warrants.

speaker1: clear. 
speaker1: ugh. got a lung full.

speaker1: reynaud sees that and also reacts. 
speaker2: we should get out of here. don't touch anything.

speaker1: he went home twenty minutes ago. agent grace, where do you think monsieur edwards is? 
speaker2: i bet monsieur edwards is in a deep grave with square corners like messieurs kohler and ford. which looks like all the victims. maybe he's subconsciously killing himself.
speaker1: we'll take that with us.
speaker2: ever see a hermit crab?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: it's a crab that lives in the shells of dead sea snails.
speaker1: yes, yes. they have one big claw and curl up tight.
speaker2: when they outgrow an old shell, they search for a new empty shell, crawl up to it and quickly switch.

speaker1: we could have had him this morning. 
speaker2: director, please. we are getting close. the hairs recovered from the apartment match the hairs recovered at the crime scene on ford's body. we found hours of video like that of the victim. he has been following him, filming him for weeks. he tapped his phone and has recordings of ford's calls. even a cd with copies of mr. ford's e-mail folders.
speaker3: with that much detail, you could become anyone.
speaker1: so he hunts people and wears their lives as a kind of trophy.
speaker3: more like a kind of camouflage.
speaker1: what's his real name?

speaker1: we know what he looks like, we have his fingerprints, we know what he had for breakfast. but his name eludes us still. 
speaker2: find it, laval. find him.
speaker1: yes, sir.
speaker3: they're working really hard.
speaker2: i know.
speaker3: someone died last night because the we're after isn't in custody. it's happened to me before and i'm sure it will happen again. it's a pretty miserable feeling.
speaker2: i haven't felt it in a long time. dinner?
speaker3: thank you. i promised the boys i'd hang out tonight. i'm sorry.

speaker1: maybe they will tell you. why do you trust junkies? 
speaker2: i trust their fear of this.
speaker1: don't say that in front of her.
speaker3: it's okay. i was a street cop in philadelphia for three years before i joined the fbi.
speaker1: very nice. you like to play games.
speaker2: mr. ford worked as a cruise-ship musician. he would walk around and play his guitar on the decks at night.
speaker3: life is pretty cold sometimes. man's just trying to spread a little music and gets murdered.
speaker2: he targeted mr. ford the night before he was supposed to get on a plane and meet a ship in aruba.
speaker3: only the new improved mr. ford was going to meet he ship.
speaker1: think he has a plan b?

speaker1: i doubt it. he's been so meticulous and effective in the past, i bet he's never needed one. we can assume he has all sorts of fake ids and passports. disguises. but that's not enough for him, he has to be someone else. he gets off impersonating people. and he knows his current persona is compromised. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you're always thinking. save something for tomorrow. we have three boxes of evidence to go through.
speaker1: pretty cavalier attitude for a man who just got his chewed by his boss.
speaker2: my papa dropped dead of a heart attack in front of a drill press at work. not me.
speaker1: i'm dropping by costa's, i still have a couple questions. i can't turn it off.

speaker1: mr. costa. 
speaker2: you caught me.
speaker1: not yet.
speaker2: toussant jean bernard. i met him in haiti last year. very troubled life. outlived all his children. and he had ten. he lost his wife to cancer and went blind. passed away last year.
speaker1: overpriced folk art. is it the work of a soul that has suffered? sure. are his explorations as an artist groundbreaking? no.
speaker2: ouch. and i was going to send you two and charge them to your amex.
speaker1: i couldn't afford it. costa is looking at her, looking through her.
speaker2: what about daddy's amex? i've sold quite a bit of art to poor little rich girls like you.

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker2: try the wine.
speaker1: i'm partial to beer. and i don't have long. i came by to thank you for your help. and i apologize if you were detained. you did the right thing. trying to save him.
speaker2: why, thank you. agent vanderholt. i'm having a show friday. you should come by and meet some good people.
speaker1: who knows. where'd you learn cpr?
speaker2: medical school. before i dropped out. i had a moment of clarity: in anatomy class i realized i'd rather draw bodies than cut them up. and when i realized i couldn't make art, i decided to sell it.
speaker1: some journey.
speaker2: it's taken me all over the world.
speaker1: about monday again, did you see mr. ford fighting back?
speaker2: at first i thought i was interrupting something, you know?
speaker1: no, i don't.
speaker2: i thought they were hugging. then the gun came out when he saw me.

speaker1: i guess that's it. thanks. 
speaker1: if you remember any details or need anything. anything related to the case, please call me.
speaker2: okay. think about friday. please, grace?

speaker1: morning. can you run this name? she got twenty hang-up calls from edward's phone. 
speaker1: what happened to that beautiful thumbprint on the orange juice glass, you get an id?
speaker2: no hits. he's never been fingerprinted.
speaker1: any activity on edward's accounts?

speaker1: nothing. i think he became edwards a year ago. he was a software engineer. did everything by the internet, he never met anyone face to face. 
speaker2: why a year ago.
speaker1: edwards went on a river trip. kohler was a guide.
speaker1: those are e-mails between kohler and edwards discussing the trip one year ago.
speaker2: you connected edwards and kohler?
speaker1: i couldn't sleep.
speaker2: our suspect kills kohler on the river, lives his life a year, kills edwards and assumes his id for a year. then he stalks ford, kills him but is interrupted by costa. think he's at costa?
speaker1: of course.
speaker3: agent vanderholt, a report came back on the name.

speaker1: she must have sounded like a total fruitcake. 
speaker2: this is it.
speaker1: let me go and be non-threatening.

speaker1: i'm glad they finally sent someone, those hang-up calls have me terrified. they started right after i saw him. i looked him directly in the eye. there was a moment of mutual recognition. 
speaker2: do you think it's martin calling and hanging up?
speaker1: it couldn't sound crazier, but who else?
speaker2: were you ever asked to identify his body?

speaker1: the body? yes, they showed me some remains that had been hit by a pickup truck. the upper body was crushed. there was no face. i got physically ill. 
speaker1: you're not canadian, are you?
speaker2: no. i'm with the fbi.
speaker1: there was three. about two weeks ago. i began turning off my telephone when i go to bed.
speaker2: you have some very nice things, mrs. asher.
speaker1: thank you. some of them have been in my family for several generations. please call me rebecca.
speaker2: is that martin?
speaker1: no. that's reese. martin's older brother. he drowned in a terrible accident.
speaker2: i'm so sorry, rebecca. how did he drown?
speaker1: the san michel river. martin fell out of their raft and reese jumped in to save him.

speaker1: their fourteenth birthday? 
speaker2: they were twins. identical twins.
speaker1: you said reese was older.
speaker2: by three minutes. they were very different boys.
speaker1: to lose one son so young, then to lose the other two years later; to think you've lost him. that must have been devastating.
speaker2: reese was very charismatic and outgoing. martin was introverted. he never thrived like reese. he was a very disturbed young man. reese was martin's world. martin never recovered his equilibrium after we lost him. he changed. martin began to intimidate me. he could be very menacing. he began imitating reese at school and that lead to fights with other students. at sixteen he stole some jewelry that was very precious to me and ran away. a few days later the thunder bay police called and said my son had been killed changing a tire.
speaker1: the police want you to sign this so they can exhume the body in martin's grave and verify identity.

speaker1: i'll sign it. i already know somebody else's son is in that casket. 
speaker1: excuse me.

speaker1: the bathroom is there. 
speaker2: i know. i was snooping.
speaker1: my friends call it the shrine. it can be difficult to let go.
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: he's killing people, isn't he?
speaker2: that doesn't surprise you?
speaker1: no. it doesn't.

speaker1: that lady is definitely a queen without a country. i should have curtsied. hygiene on the road. very efficient. 
speaker2: merde!

speaker1: bodies get mixed up all the time. police found the wallet, called the mother and nothing was cross- checked. this was his head. 
speaker1: get that to doctor shivani and make sure someone signs for it. she'll rebuild his jaw line and check it against martin asher's dental x-rays.
speaker2: how soon, sir?
speaker1: this is a priority case, this afternoon maybe.

speaker1: vanderholt. 
speaker2: am i interrupting something?
speaker1: yes. what?
speaker2: the x-rays don't match.
speaker1: find the real martin asher. he's your killer. you better get his mother someplace safe.

speaker1: how'd she finagle a room there? 
speaker2: she's a very slick woman.

speaker1: she didn't have one picture of martin. not one. even cut him out of the old yearbooks. and she had a basement door like a vault. she's hiding something. in the basement of her house. what is it, ten minutes away from here? her house. 
speaker2: if she's under our protection and something happens to her house, her belongings, the department could be liable. there could be a lawsuit.
speaker1: you're right. we should make sure her front door is locked.

speaker1: i'll stay outside. kill him if he's in there. 
speaker2: yeah, i'll get 'em.
speaker2: let's be friends.

speaker1: i think i just shaved ten years off my life. 
speaker2: ah, you do feel fear.
speaker1: yes. rabies scares me. only rabies. nothing else.
speaker1: vanderholt.
speaker3: grace. someone broke into my office. minutes ago.
speaker1: at the art gallery?
speaker3: yes. my office here.
speaker1: are they still there?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: did you call the police?
speaker3: you told me to call you if anything happened.

speaker1: i do all my calls to europe and shipping stuff at night. my address book was on the screen when i went out for coffee. i came back and this was on the screen. 
speaker2: how long were you gone?
speaker1: ten minutes. maybe. when i returned, that was on the screen.

speaker1: is this about the strangling? is that guy after me? 
speaker2: please relax, mr. costa. we don't know if there's a connection yet.
speaker3: is anything missing.
speaker1: no. everything's here. he took my organizer and my business checkbook.

speaker1: how do we know costa didn't stage this? for attention or something. 
speaker2: he's happy to see you. but the alarm was jumpered. do you think costa knows how to jumper an alarm?
speaker1: we should take the computer.
speaker3: don't take the computer. that's my brain.
speaker3: i'm not making this up. believe me.
speaker1: should i believe you?
speaker1: or should i believe this.
speaker3: believe what you want.

speaker1: is that the man you saw choking mr. ford? 
speaker2: i must of walked right past him.
speaker3: mr. costa, is that the man you saw kill mr. ford in the parking lot?
speaker2: yes. that's him. that is the man i saw murder todd ford in the parking lot outside my gym. no doubt. now will you go catch him, please?
speaker3: thank you. i just needed you to say it.
speaker2: who is this guy? he's like a ninja. sneaking into my office. how dangerous is he? does he want to kill me?
speaker3: john, no harm will come to you. listen to me. no harm will come to you. i promise. anyone who wants to hurt you will have to get through these two for starters.

speaker1: how many people have you killed? 
speaker2: you will be safe, my friend.
speaker3: we want you to be there tonight. a beat, costa smiles. realizes she's serious.
speaker1: no. i'm not meeting him. absolutely not. you ever go fishing? the bait always dies.
speaker3: he won't get within fifty feet of you. the second we see him, the cuffs go on.
speaker1: grace, no.

speaker1: what if he shoots me in the head? 
speaker2: i will take the bullet for you like the secret service. okay, friend?
speaker1: you're good. you could move a lot of art if you wanted to.
speaker1: and inspire some too, i'm sure.

speaker1: don't worry. you're doing fine. 
speaker2: could you look any more like a cop?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: could i have some water? i'm cooking in this thing.

speaker1: i wish i had his patience. he should be a cop. his mother should be punished. like the owner of pit bulls that attack kids. 
speaker2: you got kids?
speaker1: three.
speaker2: don't keep them in a cage.

speaker1: go outside. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: we're calling it off.

speaker1: i have a life. i can't play superhero for you. i don't handle stress very well. i have an art show to open tomorrow and i don't know what i'm putting on the walls yet. 
speaker2: i know you have a life. so did the people who have lost theirs. someone else might die if you do not help us. every time someone dies it affects forty, fifty lives.
speaker1: grace, i've been cooperating. i even drew you a picture. you can't put your responsibility on me. you have a badge, not me.
speaker2: if somebody else dies, and you know you could have done more to stop it, you're going to feel like for a very long time, mr. costa.

speaker1: i want to help you guys but i don't have time to hang out and listen to bad techno. 
speaker2: it's okay to be scared.
speaker1: scared? i'm off-the-charts terrified. there's a pissed-off serial killer after me. i mean, what did i do to him?
speaker2: you saw him and that's enough. don't stop living your life. you'll be protected by armed officers twenty-four seven.
speaker1: until he's caught?
speaker2: i can't promise you that.
speaker1: i have a lot of work to do.
speaker2: a car is watching the gallery. you'll be okay.

speaker1: so who was in asher's grave? 
speaker2: dan soulsby. he went missing from the alberta military institute two days before the accident.

speaker1: i'm sure soulsby's death was a homicide, asher saw the opportunity and took it. he became soulsby and bummed around seattle for a couple years. 
speaker2: why is asher after costa? why isn't he in mexico getting a new face?
speaker1: costa saw him. costa caught him in the act, caught him being martin asher. seen first by his mother, then by costa. for the first time he's failed at taking a life, and since we found the apartment, he can't be edwards. to be seen, to be recognized, is a horrifying thing to asher. he has no identity and wants it that way.
speaker2: where is the real mr. edwards?
speaker1: likely dead and buried south of the border somewhere. south of the american border somewhere. visa records put asher, using kohler's id and edwards at a mexican surf resort. edwards' last charge was sixteen hundred dollars at a 'no questions asked' facelift clinic in guadalajara.
speaker2: have you contacted the clinic?
speaker3: yes. they are also 'no questions answered.' mr. kohler suddenly paid off his credit card bills, thanks to money from edwards.

speaker1: keep's the collection agencies off the trail. how do we flush mr. 
speaker2: he's focused on costa. who fits the profile of asher's victims. he went on costa's computer and e- mailed copies of costa's files to an e-mail account in denmark. constant threat of discovery, asher will become more disorganized.
speaker1: okay. my office will arrange a press conference. i will tell a room full of correspondents we have a suspect who is dead and murder victims who are alive. and i'll sound like a madman.
speaker2: it does sound crazy. that's what the press likes, sir.

speaker1: mr. costa, some men in that car have been watching this place all morning. 
speaker2: they're protecting the art. go ahead and hang those. be very careful.
speaker1: yessir.
speaker3: security is going to be very solid tonight.
speaker2: is he going to show up tonight?
speaker3: he won't show. but we want to be here in case he does. four plainclothes officers will form a perimeter watching the four corners.
speaker2: a perimeter, excellent.
speaker3: yes. and four plainclothes officers will be in here.
speaker2: mingling? i don't need four bruisers crashing through my clientele.

speaker1: the officers will be very discreet. we won't interfere with your thing. 
speaker2: with my thing. will you be mingling?
speaker1: sure. if you feel safer.
speaker2: much safer.

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker2: you look a little anxious.
speaker1: this isn't me.

speaker1: it's all you. 
speaker2: i'm trying to get into the show, but i mean. what is this? it looks like somebody napalmed the garden of eden.
speaker1: mangos. ripe mangos hanging on a branch.
speaker2: oh. okay. why the borders? almost every painting has one. was he in prison or something?
speaker1: most people don't notice. this is from his prison series. he could see a mango grove through his cell window. he made some of the pigments himself. from flowers.
speaker2: what was his crime?
speaker1: he attacked his neighbor with a machete. there was a woman involved.
speaker2: always is.
speaker2: he had a lot of lovers, didn't he?
speaker1: dozens. he was a consumer of life's pleasures.

speaker1: now he's dead and you get rich? 
speaker2: his children formed a corporation, i take ten percent. i'm not a buccaneer, grace.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i don't think i've ever met anyone quite like you.
speaker2: you're very sensitive for...
speaker1: an fbi agent?
speaker3: john, it's amazing tonight. i want to cry, i'm so touched.
speaker1: mr. costa, i would like to discuss an arrangement for the series.
speaker3: just a sec, john.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: she's not writing the checks.

speaker1: john, it's incredible what you've put together. the thing we were talking about the other day, well i'd like to proceed. hell, i'm sick of making two percent in the market. 
speaker2: dick, they're yours.

speaker1: don't you miss wax? 
speaker2: you helped me close the biggest sale of the night.
speaker1: what's my cut?
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i don't know.
speaker2: let me know when you do. excuse me.

speaker1: costa looks in the mirror and reacts. 
speaker2: put your hands on the wall.
speaker2: feel that?
speaker3: please be cool with that. i don't wanna get hurt.
speaker2: i should blow your spine out. my face is everywhere. i have to hide in the shadows like a animal because of you.
speaker3: yessir. i apologize for everything you think i may have done.
speaker2: we're moved past sorry. you ruined everything. john, soon to be dead, costa.
speaker3: stop it!

speaker1: i'm okay. 
speaker2: jean, he ran into the crowd.

speaker1: need a ride home? 
speaker2: the night started out great. everything gelled. everyone was happy. you helped land a big fish and the feeding frenzy started. six figure pieces were flying off the wall. he said he was going to blow out my spine. i was thinking surgery. six months in bed. exercise pools. never walking again.

speaker1: he was in my bathroom and none of you could stop him. i need to leave town. 
speaker2: that might be a good idea. until then i'll check under your bed for monsters.
speaker1: i would appreciate that very much. can i profile you? i read your book.
speaker2: please, don't.
speaker1: thirty-something, single white female. best schools best grades. discovers adrenaline policing the inner city.
speaker2: john, stop it. please. let's shift the conversation from me and my business onto something inbounds.
speaker1: okay. are you going to my funeral when martin asher cuts my throat?
speaker1: you let him get away.
speaker2: no excuses. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i meant you in the general sense. can you catch him?

speaker1: we got his name. we catch everyone sooner or later. 
speaker2: sooner, please.
speaker2: careful.
speaker2: i'm sorry. it's a sty. must be a profiling mother lode.
speaker1: i'm done profiling you. i got you figured out.
speaker2: a failed healer, a failed artist.
speaker1: is that how you see yourself?
speaker2: no. that's you. i did it last night.
speaker1: this is how you see me?
speaker2: no. it's how i think you see yourself.

speaker1: and how do you see me? 
speaker2: that would be out of bounds.
speaker2: what was that?
speaker1: i don't know. john, games are fun. but head games are dangerous.
speaker2: then keep your head out of it.
speaker1: the justice minister is going to relocate you to another city until mr. asher is in custody.
speaker2: i don't know what your deal is. one second you're so there, then all i get is the badge.
speaker1: i apologize if you've been getting the wrong signal.
speaker2: yeah. relocate where?
speaker1: another province. they want you on a flight tomorrow morning.
speaker2: this monster comes into my life and i have to leave?

speaker1: my people are in place. 
speaker2: thank you, sergeant.
speaker3: this is surreal. what do i pack?
speaker2: what you need. movers can get the rest.
speaker3: i need tomorrow morning to finish up my business here.
speaker2: i'll let them know.
speaker3: i thought you were going to check under my bed.
speaker2: no monsters.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: i probably won't see you again until the trial. if there is a trial.
speaker3: goodbye, then.

speaker1: you spent a lot of time with costa. 
speaker1: i like him. he's a good guy.

speaker1: you just shot a cop. 
speaker2: let's go. go!
speaker3: you staying or going?
speaker4: i'm not leaving.

speaker1: he was a cop. he's dead because of you, because you made the choice. the choice to with me. that, john, was a very bad choice. 
speaker2: which way? left, right?
speaker1: left.
speaker1: you're dead, john costa. you with the wrong man, shitsmear.
speaker1: faster,
speaker2: i'm flooring it.
speaker1: shut up. faster.
speaker1: give me your wallet. give it over. right now.
speaker2: are you going to kill me?
speaker1: you're right i am. i've been dreaming about it, john.

speaker1: pass the truck, john. before i blow your head off! 
speaker2: help me.

speaker1: is everyone okay? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: i think so. 
speaker2: omigod, i have to call my mom.
speaker3: they're okay. let's go. he just shot a cop.
speaker3: let's go. bad guy's that way.

speaker1: there. turn there. 
speaker1: careful.
speaker2: okay. sorry. sorry. you don't want to do this.
speaker1: yes i do. john, do you have any idea how many people i have killed? it's always been business. this time is personal.
speaker2: please be cool. c'mon, we don't even know each other.

speaker1: shut up. art man. you are stupid or crazy or both. will you drive faster? i'll shoot you in the thigh. will that get your attention. 
speaker2: don't, man. i got money. you want money, i'll give you money. i got paintings. what do you want? talk to me, martin.
speaker1: i am not martin. there is no martin.
speaker2: of course. no martin. what do you want? what's my life worth to you?
speaker1: nothing. and everything. this is deeper than money. shut up. talk is done. talk is over. understand that. you are over. just shut the up.
speaker2: okay, please, martin. martin. be cool.
speaker1: who the is martin?

speaker1: which way do i turn? 
speaker2: which way's the river? go to the river.

speaker1: nothing broken? 
speaker2: i think my hand is broken.

speaker1: don't move, okay. 
speaker1: this hurt?
speaker2: yes. stop that.
speaker1: you're going to the hospital.
speaker2: is he dead?
speaker1: very dead.

speaker1: please, jean. i called your wife. i'm having someone take you home to her. there is nothing left to do here. 
speaker1: i'm ordering you home.
speaker2: you're really good with people.
speaker1: how's mr. costa?
speaker2: he got off light. with a broken wrist and fifty stitches. lucky man.
speaker1: my luck has run out. until today i have never had to bury a friend.
speaker2: i'm sorry, director.
speaker1: thankfully it's over. we have our man. asher's dna matched the hairs recovered on ford's body and in the apartment.

speaker1: hey. 
speaker2: hey. ouch, doc. that's not rawhide.
speaker3: i'll inject more anesthetic.
speaker1: you okay?
speaker2: i'm okay. thank you for rescuing me.
speaker1: anytime. do you know where he was taking you?
speaker2: to my grave. he was going to kill me.
speaker1: it's over. let me take you out tonight. let's have some fun. i owe you that.
speaker2: what's fun for you? you want to go to the shooting range or the morgue?
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: it's going to take a couple days to depose you and get a full statement. i thought you might enjoy a break before you have to...
speaker2: i know a place. you drive.

speaker1: i'm happy to be alive but it's like this door has been opened. i don't think i was naive. but everything is different now. 
speaker2: you'll fold this experience into your life and be stronger for it.
speaker1: how do you deal with it? all the misery and pain and violence.
speaker2: i can stop monsters, john. and because i can, i have to.
speaker1: so is it a calling or a curse?
speaker2: neither. it's just my job.
speaker1: when i was in med school i saw a guy on a harley get t-boned by a daihatsu. he was screaming in pain and needed help and i knew what to do, i had all my certs, but i saw all this blood and froze. i failed the big test. bye-bye, med school. hello, graphic design.
speaker2: roy wilson.
speaker1: the man on the harley.
speaker1: so you knew about that. no wonder you knew what to say to keep me cooperating.

speaker1: you're a sharp one, john costa. 
speaker2: you threw me in a tiger cage like a piece of meat.
speaker1: that's right. you were the cheese in the trap. we stopped a monster. that's what matters.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm a pig. 
speaker2: i don't trust anyone who's too organized.
speaker1: want a beer?
speaker2: please.
speaker2: which is it, are you a runner or chaser?
speaker1: what's that mean?
speaker2: people like you --
speaker1: people like me?

speaker1: yeah, people like you. hardcore. gung-ho people like you. and you know what i mean. people like you are either runners or chasers. 
speaker2: you are a trip, john costa.
speaker2: okay. i guess i'm running and chasing.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i didn't know.
speaker2: growing up i quit speaking after that. i didn't say a word for three years. when you're not in the conversation, you get forgotten real quick. so i'd watch people. study them. the mouth can say anything, but the body doesn't lie. the tilt of the head, the way the hands move. grace draws closer. costa watching her mouth.
speaker1: how'd you get your voice back?
speaker2: the day my uncle died. the truth exploded out of me like a vision. my uncle and father had been arguing, there was a gunshot and my father was dead.
speaker1: you are very intense, you know that?
speaker2: i remember my uncle telling me not to say anything. and i didn't.

speaker1: why did your uncle do it? 
speaker2: land. great-grandpa owned half of pennsylvania. my uncle wanted control and sold it all. all that's left is an old farmhouse and a horse pasture. my father's murderer got away with it because i couldn't open my mouth.
speaker1: that's a of a lot of responsibility for you to put on the shoulders of an eight-year-old girl.
speaker2: something good game out of it. the dead can't speak. now i'm their voice.
speaker2: martin asher is dead, right?
speaker1: can we please forget about him?
speaker2: that's the point. he's dead, so there won't be a trial where you or i would have to admit under oath that we did anything inappropriate.

speaker1: we haven't done anything. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: in college we tried to make my friend's german shepherd take a bong hit.
speaker2: how mean. serves you right. costa pulls grace to her feet.
speaker1: let them watch.

speaker1: john. john. 
speaker2: mmmmm. morning.
speaker2: my stitches must have ripped.
speaker1: i thought you were scared of blood?
speaker2: you better take a shower.

speaker1: nineteen years ago i stood in this same room and your predecessor showed me a washtub full of blood and guts and told me it was my son. i will touch anything i want, doctor. i'm not going through this a third time. 
speaker1: it's not him. that's not my blood. you people are incredible.
speaker2: i'll swab your cheek and test your dna against the body. will that do it?
speaker1: good idea, doctor. he's smarter than all of you, do you know that?
speaker3: is that going to hold? i'm not coming back.
speaker3: what's wrong?
speaker4: that was my boss. i'm going back to quantico tomorrow.

speaker1: washington, dc has some of the best art in the world. georgetown would be a great place to open a gallery. 
speaker2: staple his mouth too, doc.
speaker2: vanderholt.
speaker3: grace. i ran mrs. asher's dna against the suspect down here. no way it's her son.
speaker2: not her son? you're sure?
speaker3: lab ran the test twice.
speaker2: that's weird. was he adopted, switched at birth?
speaker3: listen for a minute. there was a match. john costa is mrs. asher's biological son.
speaker2: so john costa is really martin asher?
speaker3: dear i wish i was joking.

speaker1: are you martin? 
speaker2: grace, i'm john. okay? i'm john.
speaker1: holy

speaker1: she screwed it up, didn't she? 
speaker2: who?

speaker1: i should have cut her throat when i saw her on the ferry. that's the least she deserves. please don't do anything, grace. it would hurt me so much if i had to hurt you. 
speaker2: good idea. don't hurt me.
speaker2: 

speaker1: police emergency. we need to pursue him. he's a murder suspect. 
speaker1: director gillet, there's an emergency, can you please tell this officer to cooperate with me?

speaker1: don't show me that, martin. i had rex put down after you ran away. martin, sit. 
speaker1: how dare you defy me. you will sit down on that couch and you will do it now. martin.
speaker1: martin, you have severe emotional problems. i know you're in a lot of pain. there's hope and help, martin. look at me, martin. i love you very much.
speaker2: i know now that what you did to me was not love.
speaker3: i'll stand if i want to stand. i can do anything i want to do. and i've done some great things, mother. i'm not a scared little boy you can push around anymore.
speaker4: mrs. asher's head neatly adorns a silver platter.

speaker1: shut up and focus. that kind of helps no one right now. 
speaker1: get right, i got left.

speaker1: don't move! 
speaker1: omigod.
speaker2: he's gone.

speaker1: my best friend died protecting a serial killer so you could get laid. very nice. 
speaker2: that's none of your business.
speaker1: no? it's my case.
speaker2: back off, reynaud. asher fooled you too.
speaker1: at least i didn't him.
speaker2: touch me again and i will kick your ass.
speaker1: i am taking you to the director.

speaker1: they're on their way from the airport. 
speaker1: your old life is over. there is no going back.

speaker1: i know. 
speaker2: you're still young. whatever happens, be strong. where is he, grace? how do we find him?
speaker1: director, i'm the last person you should be discussing the case with at this point.
speaker2: grace. you know his mind, and his heart. where is he?
speaker1: not here. this city no longer has the psychic gravity to hold him here. try mexico, getting a facelift.
speaker2: we id'd the remains in the morgue. the real id.
speaker1: richard hart.

speaker1: let me guess, costa was selling stolen art for hart and never gave him the money. now hart is just another one of asher's victims. 
speaker2: costa owed him eight thousand. those are e-mails off hart's computer.
speaker1: go to hell. i won't pay you a dime. i'm not scared of you.

speaker1: he had us all fooled, grace. all of us. if asher can do that, what else can he do? 
speaker2: anything he wants.
speaker2: ah, the undertakers have arrived for my career.

speaker1: have your rights been explained to you and has an indication to that effect been made in your employee record? 
speaker2: yessir.

speaker1: agent vanderholt. why would asher kill ford, if nobody knew he was costa. if he wasn't going to use ford's identity? 
speaker2: he needed a murder he could link not only richard hart to but also to his past victims.

speaker1: mr. hart, not asher, murdered the montreal inspector, correct? 
speaker2: yes. hart thought costa was systematically destroying his life. hart's violent explosion was inevitable.
speaker1: how could asher plan on hart snapping like that?
speaker2: he couldn't. my guess is asher intended to kill hart and make it look like suicide. the authorities would find the body and close the martin asher file.
speaker1: this ethics panel has no choice but to recommend terminating you for misconduct. do you wish to make a statement?
speaker1: please speak up for the record.
speaker2: no. i have nothing to say.

speaker1: grace. this is a bitter loss to the unit. 
speaker2: you'll manage.
speaker1: want some good news? rcmp closed their investigation and the minister isn't indicting you. this could have been a real train wreck for you, grace.
speaker2: it wasn't?
speaker1: no one has any clue where asher is. that son of a might fixate on you. please watch your back, grace.
speaker2: i'll dig a hole and hide in it.
speaker1: don't fade away, grace. you're still my friend, okay?

speaker1: hello? 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i'm sorry you lost your job. a beat. grace grabs the big .45 by her thigh.
speaker2: hello?
speaker1: i'm here.
speaker2: i miss you.
speaker1: why don't you come and see me. i miss you, too. i'm at the gainesville virginia. the motel 6 off highway 29. stop by.

speaker1: wow, you know the question? 
speaker2: six months.
speaker1: that's it?
speaker2: twins.
speaker1: good luck, sweetheart. get yourself home, it's miserable out.

speaker1: hi, grace. 
speaker1: knock it off. you're not going anywhere.
speaker1: i'm not going to hurt you.
speaker2: you're so full of your eyes turned brown.
speaker1: they're contacts. you're glowing.
speaker2: how the did you find me?
speaker1: you told me everything i had to know.

speaker1: get it over with. just get it over with. 
speaker2: ever since i met you, you're all i can think about. i had a way of life. and i can't go back to because of you. i want you in my life, grace. please listen to me, grace. i have a proposal.
speaker2: you become her. i become him. we are married, see?
speaker2: we have the babies. we raise them. however you want. i just want to be with you.
speaker1: what happens if i don't want to assume this woman's identity and raise my babies with a serial killer?
speaker2: grace, don't be morbid. if anyone can deal with this, you can. i know you felt what i felt. it's real.
speaker1: answer my question.
speaker2: i'll shoot you in the head and burn this place down.

speaker1: you'll do what you have to do. i can respect that. how do you know it's still real? maybe it's gone. what we felt. 
speaker1: i missed you so much. asher leans in to kiss her...
speaker2: i searched everything.
speaker2: you!

speaker1:  
speaker2: better you than me,

