speaker1: pan american flight 1 to frankfurt, london, and new york has arrived and will be ready for boarding at gate 7 in 20 minutes. repeat in english over: 
speaker2: i think i've been poisoned.
speaker3: and you ate two baclavas, right? i not to touch them, mine was awful.

speaker1: passport! 
speaker1: bag!
speaker1: nebu?
speaker2: it's a frisbee.
speaker1: nebu?
speaker2: a frisbee. you throw, catch it. game!
speaker3: american game. baseball.
speaker1: ah!
speaker1: take off the glasses.
speaker4: aaaah!
speaker5: are you all right?
speaker2: yeah... yeah.
speaker5: overdose, in a hollywood motel.

speaker1: never was anybody like janis. 
speaker2: never was anybody like you...
speaker1: you can't take anything seriously.
speaker2: you're right.
speaker3: attention please, ladies and gentlemen. for your own safety we're conducting a security check before you board your airplane, kindly file out the back. women and children in one line. men in another.
speaker4: what's he saying? i don't know... marian. hey marian, what the hell...
speaker5: idem.
speaker1: they do everything backwards in turkey.
speaker6: they're checking for hijackers. any palestinians aboard? hey harry, get rid of your grenades...
speaker1: billy, what's the matter?
speaker2: my passport!
speaker1: no!
speaker2: susan - forget it. go get us a seat on the plane. now.
speaker1: what is it? . . . billy?

speaker1: just a minute! billy his eyes flattening. susan in long shot, reacting. 
speaker2: nebu? did you search him?
speaker3: no!
speaker4: bomb! he's got a bomb!
speaker5: bomb! bomb!

speaker1: it's hashish. just a smuggler. 
speaker2: ...billy...?

speaker1: name? 
speaker2: william hayes.
speaker3: vi... vilyum... vilyum...
speaker2: hayes.
speaker3: hi-yes...

speaker1: 'merican? 
speaker2: new york.
speaker2: new york... new york...
speaker1: ahhhh...nev yok!

speaker1: name? 
speaker2: william hayes.
speaker1: vil... vilyum...?
speaker2: hayes...

speaker1: no.. he's smiling. make him look miserable. 
speaker2: gel? gel??

speaker1: screaming at second 
speaker2: you you fool. you told me the american was searched... and he's pulling hashish out of his boots! you're all dogshit!
speaker3: you worthless piece of garbage, where did you learn to search a prisoner? he's been in our custody for an hour, etc.
speaker4: who searched him? who?
speaker5: that's it! that's all i have!

speaker1: howdy, billy. howya doing, ok? 
speaker2: i think these gentlemen have finished for the time being if you'd like to put your clothes on.

speaker1: are you afraid, vilyum? 
speaker2: no, i'm not afraid.
speaker1: good. there's nothing to be afraid of. if you co-operate with us, you will be on the plane for new york tomorrow... yes?
speaker2: yes...?
speaker1: good. now, where did you get the hashish?
speaker2: a cabdriver. he picked me up in the pudding shoppe in the bazaar.
speaker1: would you recognize him again?
speaker2: yes. i think so.
speaker1: good. would you go back to the pudding shoppe now and point him out to my men if you see him?

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: you decided to fly at a bad time billy palestinian guerrillas all over the place blowing up planes and all.
speaker1: stupid.
speaker2: four planes in four days...but i guess you kids don't read the newspapers...and what with our people kicking up a storm 'bout the flow of heroin from turkey you got...
speaker1: but didn't have heroin.
speaker3: well i'm not up on all that. a drug's a drug seems to me billy and...
speaker1: but it was my first time. i'm not really a smuggler, was just two kilos.
speaker2: well, you see billy, it don't really matter right now if it's 2 kilos or 200 kilos. the turks love to catch any foreigner smuggling - it shows the world they're fighting the drug trade.
speaker1: but just...
speaker2: just what?
speaker1: i just needed some extra money. i was broke, the guy offered me the hash and...
speaker1: ...are you with the consulate?
speaker2: something like that. cigarette?
speaker2: how much you pay this joker... this cab driver?
speaker1: two hundred dollars. it was my last two hundred.
speaker2: how much did you figure to make?
speaker1: three, four thousand...i don't know. the guy offered me the hash-- ...it just seemed like easy money.
speaker2: beats working.
speaker1: i was just going to sell it to friends. i'm not a pusher, honest.
speaker2: got a family back there?
speaker1: yeah. parents, brother, sister. babylon, long island.
speaker2: what's your father do?
speaker1: he sells insurance for metropolitan life.
speaker2: be tough on 'em.

speaker1: girlfriend? 
speaker2: ...she was on the plane.
speaker2: she didn't know anything about...i wouldn't have wanted her to.
speaker1: lucky girl.
speaker2: jeez, she used to say i was the lucky one.
speaker1: let's hope so, billy. let's sure hope so.

speaker1: you seem like a nice enough kid to me billy, but try it and i'll blow your brains out. billy - the sense of betrayal in his eyes. 
speaker2: dear mom and dad. this is the hardest letter i've ever had to write. know the confusion and the pain it will cause you. and the disappointment...
speaker2: i really thought knew what i was doing with my life. i'd hoped somehow to get out of this quickly so that you'd never know about it. but that just isn't possible now. i don't know what's going to happen. but what can i say to you? will 'i'm sorry' make a difference? will it ease the pain, the shame you must be feeling? forgive me...please...

speaker1: git! 
speaker2: cold. very cold. can i get blanket? blanket?
speaker3: mo sell...too late. tomorrow...
speaker3: you be here tomorrow. "ayi gedjaler" goes.
speaker4: pssst!
speaker4: your cell, no key. open...! blanket. three cell down. you get me one. take... extends a stick with a big nail pounded into the end, twisted over to form a hook.
speaker4: ziat go for night. go!
speaker3: brack!...brack!
speaker3: you, you, give me sheet. give me!

speaker1: name? 
speaker2: vilyum hi-yes
speaker1: vilyum hi-yes...
speaker1: vilyum hi-yes
speaker3: it was cold. cold! i get blanket. blanket! cold!

speaker1: hey man, he's gotta walk, or his feet gonna swell up worse. 
speaker2: we take him down to courtyard...
speaker3: smoke this rocket, it'll cool the pain.
speaker3: you gotta walk around some man, or your feet gonna swell up something bad... billy looks down at
speaker3: you've been out for days man, talking all kinds of come on, we'll walk you down to the courtyard.
speaker4: okay?
speaker4: how's it feel?
speaker5: about as good as it looks.
speaker3: getchmis olsun
speaker5: getchmis...?
speaker3: olsun - "may it pass quickly." i'm bell, jimmy bell. this is erich something swedish.
speaker4: just erich.
speaker5: i'm billy hayes... at least i used to be. looks around.
speaker5: looks like a cheap hotel.
speaker3: yeah... only the room service is lousy. come on, let me show you the tennis courts. helps him with erich to take the first steps.
speaker4: feeling all right?
speaker5: yeah. that guy who beat me? i feel stoned.
speaker3: 'figgers.
speaker5: ...he had a bald skull and...
speaker3: hamidou. chief of the guards. don't with him. he almost killed an italian dude couple months ago. bad news. he try anything with you?
speaker5: no... i don't remember.
speaker3: with these turks, soon as the light goes out... i keep one hand on their feet and their feet better not grow. you'll meet max. he got raped something bad down in section 13. that's the pits.

speaker1: the kids? why are they... 
speaker2: ...they tell ziat everything. he's the squeal round here. goes all over the prison. sells watered- down tea, blankets, hash, black money, nembutols --anything for a buck...
speaker2: whatcha' in for, smuggling? rash?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: history, man, history. how much?
speaker1: two kilos.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: the airport. trying to get on the plane for the states.
speaker2: could be ten or fifteen. maybe even twenty.
speaker1: twenty months?
speaker2: twenty years, man - years! i figger ten at the least.
speaker1: years?
speaker3: don't pay too much attention, anything is possible in turkey. you might get bail.
speaker3: ...if you make bail, you're free. you can get a fake passport or sneak across the border to greece. the greeks hate the turks so much they never send you back. the turks know it. they just keep the bail. money.
speaker2: sure, keep dreaming and see where that gets you... like max, up in the head, you know... you gonna eat a lot more fasoulia beans, billy baby, 'fore you taste a hamburger 'gain cause you broke the law man, and you got caught... and that... is history.
speaker3: the law is sometimes wrong.
speaker3: new people sometimes get on his nerves.
speaker1: what did he do?

speaker1: he was caught steeling from a mosque. that's heavy here. he got 30 years. 
speaker2: thirty years?
speaker3: jimmy has more than brains. he didn't tell his parents he was in jail for a year and a half. he says he got himself in and now he's going to get himself out. he shakes his head, looking at:
speaker2: and you?
speaker3: hashish. ninety percent of the foreigners are in for hashish.
speaker2: what they give you?
speaker3: twelve years.
speaker2: how much did you have?
speaker3: a hundred grams.
speaker2: it's not fair!
speaker3: there is no fair in turkey, billy. it's all "sula-bula" like this, like that. an italian hippie had a car accident and a turk was killed. so, they threw him in here for six months...
speaker2: that doesn't seem so bad.
speaker3: but he was eating lunch a mile away when the turk smashed into killed himself.
speaker2: he wasn't even in the car?
speaker3: aslan, there...
speaker3: killed a guy. but his father's a big gangster on the docks. a "kapidiye." he'll stay in... twelve months no more, and get parole. in turkey, murder is manly - "erkek".
speaker3: you just got to get yourself a good lawyer. and some money... talk to max. he's been in the longest.
speaker2: how long?
speaker3: seven years...

speaker1: gastro. stomach medicine. has codeine in it... best can do pulls out the needle, loosens the tourniquet. his eyes take on a far away stare. 
speaker2: lawyers?
speaker1: yeah... there's no straight lawyers in turkey... they're all bent bent as hairpins...
speaker3: he looks at billy, not remembering him.
speaker2: his name?
speaker1: who?
speaker2: the lawyer?
speaker1: what lawyer?
speaker2: who got the frenchman out?
speaker1: oh yesil... yesil's his name but i...don't know anything... 'bout...yesil...
speaker1: best way is get your out... any... way... you can...
speaker4: what do you mean?
speaker1: get the... midnight... express.
speaker4: what's that?

speaker1: billy! 
speaker2: dad!
speaker2: dad...i'm...

speaker1: ...don't worry about it. i can punch you in the nose later. right now we've got to get you out of here. you all right? 
speaker2: yeah. how's mom?
speaker1: bad. she couldn't make the trip. you know her boy... susan told us before we got your letter. she's fine; she's trying to get the money to come back and see you, but...
speaker2: no, don't let her! i'll... how about peg? robbie?
speaker1: same. none of the neighbors know. we told them you were in a hospital in europe. oh... this is stanley davis. he's the american consul here... and necdit yesil, the lawyer you wanted...

speaker1: hello, billy. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: i want you to know we're going to do everything, in our power to get you out as soon as possible. believe me.
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: vilyum, i am necdit yesil. 
speaker2: mr. yesil.
speaker1: i know exactly what you feel but you must not worry, we are acting immediately, we get the right court, the right judge, i arrange everything - just right. and i think we get you bail. if very bad, maybe twenty month sentence... but i think we get you bail...
speaker1: you know i have lectured at the university of maryland in your country? also university michigan very nice country. we both go back.
speaker2: if i get bail, mister yesil, they say it's easy to cross the border into greece?
speaker3: right! that's what we're shooting for. mister davis and have been in contact with the state department, but right now relations with the turks aren't too good, nixon's upset the out of them. our best bet's... right here.
speaker2: dad... i'll pay you back for all this, i promise.

speaker1: don't worry about it. right now money doesn't count. okay? 
speaker1: where'd you get that limp?
speaker2: nothing. just twisted my ankle.
speaker2: where you staying, dad?
speaker1: the hilton.
speaker2: how do you like it? istanbul?
speaker1: well, it's an interesting place... tell you the truth, i think the food is lousy. the they sell in these little restaurants. i went out to eat in one of them last night, and i had to run to the toilet... you shoulda' seen the toilet.
speaker2: you mean you got toilets?
speaker1: yeah, with real toilet paper - and you don't have to use both sides.
speaker1: so now i'm eating at the hilton every night.
speaker1: why'd you do it, billy?
speaker2: for the money...
speaker1: i know you kids smoke that stuff, and we drink booze, but taking it across a border - it was stupid, billy. stupid.
speaker2: i know.
speaker2: dad get me out of here.
speaker2: okay.
speaker3: ...we must alter this image by punishing only our own drug smugglers-but by handing out foreigners who infest our culture with their depravity ungodly and behavior. we must start now - by sentencing this american, vilyum hi-yes, to the maximum sentence for smuggling, to be held up to the light of the world as an example of turkish justice and its intention to halt the drug trade once and for all.. .i ask the court therefore to sentence vilyum hi-yes to life imprisonment.
speaker3: he sits, staring malignantly at billy.
speaker4: thank you, prosecutor. the court will now recess to consider its verdict. the judges exit.
speaker2: what'd the prosecutor say?
speaker5: it's not important, just technical things. we make our case. you were very good, you spoke well. the judge like you. it look good. don't worry.
speaker2: did you ask for bail?

speaker1: the defendant has been found guilty by the court of the illegal possession of hashish... 
speaker1: ...therefore. this court sentences you, vilyum hi-yes to be imprisoned at sagamilcar prison for a term of four years and two months. this case is now closed.
speaker2: four years, two months. it's good.
speaker3: four years!
speaker4: we appeal it. billy watching this, a lost look.
speaker4: you will see, he will have maybe one year taken off this sentence for good behaviour. remember, it is only for possession; the prosecutor wanted life sentence for smuggling... to be honest mr. hayes, it is a great victory!
speaker3: ...with good time billy it works out to about 3 years... then there's the appeal. yesil, davis, they're all working for you we're going to try to make a deal to get you transferred to a stateside prison. and davis thinks there might be a political amnesty any month... stops. knows it sounds bad.
speaker3: look - i know it sounds tough, billy, but we're gonna get you out...
speaker3: ...i promise you, but i don't want you to get stupid again. pull anything. they can play with your sentence.
speaker5: i'm putting $500 in the bank for you. anything you need you write...
speaker3: there's food, candy, writing paper, soap, books... ...cigarettes, soap, tooth-brush, there's... i been writing insurance policies on people for thirty years... and now i gotta see my own son...jesus! if i could be where you are billy, i'd be there... these bastards.

speaker1: oh 
speaker1: you take good care of my boy, you hear, or i'll have your head, you turkish bastard! it sputters out of his mouth, senseless to:

speaker1: dear susan. 1970 has now passed into 1971. you can drift in here and never know you're gone. you can fade so far out and you don't know where you are anymore or where anything else is... 
speaker1: i find loneliness is a physical pain which hurts all over; you can't isolate it in one part of your body. i so much need your softness, your strength. i have your letters. they charge me, give me courage.news about amnesty and getting out - tangled, complicated... the camera lingers on ziat in a far corner of the kogus, top bunk, against a wall. never secure, he shuffles in his sleep.
speaker2: ...i feel myself drifting more heavily into smoking hashish. the haze helps the time pass. also i do soap carvings. erich taught me. and i have been learning turkish because it helps me to deal with the guards and the prisoners. i'm trying hard to maintain some sort of schedule to my life, but sometimes it seems like i'm just trying in order to try...

speaker1: ...to the turks all foreigners are "ayip" - unclean, dirty. we don't shave our under-arms or around our crotch... 
speaker2: even the yoga i sometimes do is "ayip" - too suggestive... the turk scowls back at bell, huddles menacingly with another turk.

speaker1: and you're never supposed to eat with your left hand. you know why? because that's what they use to wipe their with instead of toilet paper. and yet they hate pigs. there are no pigs in turkey. they're considered dirty... 
speaker2: unfortunately my youngest son arief is having problems with his teeth; he needs braces, but dentists are so expensive these days
speaker3: poor kid... you know i have a friend, a very good friend; he's a dentist; maybe he could get you some braces at a... reasonable price.
speaker3: yes. please! as a favour... i insist they go on, each protesting.
speaker4: hamidou hints that he needs new braces for one of his sons. aslan of course has a friend who's a dentist. they for half an hour and hamidou finally accepts the "baksheesh" in return... a burlap bag comes flying over the wall of the courtyard late at night. then another comes over, lands in the yard. one is around.
speaker4: dope and all kinds of shipments get delivered to aslan, who re- sells it through his runners. people like ziat. but one night, it backfired... a third bag comes over, gets caught on a hooknail and rips right open. hundreds of yellow pills spill out.

speaker1: there were thousands of yellow nembutols. aslan as usual had the privilege of going into the courtyard before anybody else to pick up his stuff but... aslan arguing vehemently with a guard, in his ragged uniform, who won't open the cell of the first floor kogus into the courtyard. 
speaker2: ...it happened to be a new guard that day and he didn't understand the system.
speaker3: no. it's too early.
speaker4: open the gate, you asshole! do you know who i am? you want to get in trouble!

speaker1: aslan...be reasonable. come down and talk. 
speaker2: you come up here and talk!
speaker1: aslan... if you give up the gun, you can keep the bullets
speaker3: ...i know all this must sound crazy to you, but this place is crazy...

speaker1: you see mamur, mamet - what happens when you're not a good boy. 
speaker2: then there's ziat. the more i know of him...

speaker1: ...the more hate him. 
speaker2: ten dollars for this you greedy one-eyed git.
speaker3: no! is good! me good
speaker2: no! you big
speaker3: yeah! efe big

speaker1: you asshole! 
speaker1: hikmet come here boy. hikmet ziat shrugs. so what?
speaker2: what is it with you man, what the is it?
speaker3: cat, ah! ayip!
speaker2: you're ayip!
speaker3: look, you don't with me, i don't with you, right?
speaker2: but you with me. you with me all the time. you make crummy tea. you rip us off on the hash.
speaker3: i make special tea for you, hiyes, okay? we've to live like brothers. we have to be in here together.
speaker3: you 'merican. you don't know.
speaker2: know what?
speaker3: was.. ...seven years old. i was on street in suk. buy. sell. no family to take care. i learn.
speaker2: learn what?
speaker3: dog eat dog, hi-yes. you other man before he you. and you must last.
speaker2: that's a great philosophy.
speaker3: you 'merican. you don't know.
speaker1: here hikmet! come down here boy! hikmet... rafter nothing.
speaker1: sodding cat!

speaker1: ...but i cannot say i am for it. nor are your parents. they consulted the priest, and he said to send you money for that reason would be like sealing your death. 
speaker2: the blueprints!
speaker3: to what?
speaker2: the prison, man. there was this german cat an architect in the hospital. he was helping the turks build some round the place. i laid some bread on him and he let me copy them.

speaker1: too bad you didn't have a machine. 
speaker2: there's two ways out i figger - over the roof, but that's only one person, maybe two. the other way is under.
speaker3: tunnel?
speaker2: it's already built! there's a basement substructure where they used to keep weapons and stuff, but beneath that there's these old catacombs that the christians built 'bout a thousand years ago to bury their dead. we're sitting right on top of it -- here. insert drawing, illustrating roughly the structure of the prison. his finger tracing, bubbling with nervous enthusiasm.
speaker2: the kraut said there's a whole bunch of hollow sealed shafts sort of like dumbwaiters running along this wall; one of them is right in there, right next to our shower. we get in there, he says, we can get down into the catacombs. with three of us working....
speaker1: gotta be here someplace. thought i heard a couple of dead christians singing down there.

speaker1: stop me, man! 
speaker2: but how would you get into the shaft, jimmy?
speaker3: i suppose you knock three times and ask for st. peter.
speaker1: hey! i'm getting this together man and i don't need no gastro-head along on this trip! we go through the wall.
speaker2: we go through the wall?
speaker3: we go through the wall.
speaker1: ...the kraut was right! i checked it out - there's no reinforced steel in those bath walls. they're real soft from underground seepage--
speaker1: --the water like "'weeps" through the cement, see. twenty, thirty years, you can almost push it over. all we do is use gastrohead's screwdriver here and scrape the mortar out. pull out 2, 3 stones, squeeze through, put 'em back, and get our down the shaft, it's a two night operation, maybe three.
speaker3: and what do you do when you in the catacombs?
speaker1: the catacoombs? whaddya want, a door? there's miles of em like a sewer system but they got to come up someplace in istanbul.
speaker3: you gotta be crazy! you got stabbed in the once too much, sweetheart, cause you're gonna end up in section 13, that's what - not the 'catacombs.
speaker2: section 13?

speaker1: yeah, for the criminally insane. i was there once for two weeks and it ain't an illusion. it's awful. namidou runs it like a death camp, that's where he spends most of his time... 
speaker2: where is it?
speaker1: i don' t know. it's someplace down in there.... ..deep.. a big door...a wheel....

speaker1: hey, you know what's gonna get us out of here? it's not a map, max. it's our balls. you know what i mean... ...i gotta get laid man, i don't know 'bout you guys, but if i don't get it on soon, i'm... i'm not gonna make it. 
speaker2: 
speaker1: billy?
speaker3: ...the roof sounds better to me than digging through a wall. ziat's round there all the time. but the roof....
speaker3: the bullet percentage is awful high.
speaker3: if i get caught, jimmy, i'm facing another months. i'd be back up to 3 years, maybe more... looks down.
speaker1: well it! choose your own death, babe, i'm taking the roof out of here!

speaker1: ...i have problems with my stomach and my leg muscles feel very weak. my gums seem to be shrinking and they sometimes bleed when i massage them... they've pulled five of my teeth... 
speaker1: ...sometimes they null the wrong one...

speaker1: ...even my dreams don't seem to work any more. because the outside doesn't seem real any more. it's not even a fantasy...because there is no fantasy. 
speaker2: even masturbation has become boring. it teaches you, like the rest of prison life, to seal up your emotions, and this is the greatest danger, this is what makes so many of the men change into something monstrous... eyes of the arabs peer through the musky vapors at billy and erich; they loll about the door curious, lecherous for their bodies.

speaker1: ...and now strange as it seems, susan, without having seen you in so long i feel myself more inside of you than ever before. i feel your female mind. i sense you, touch you; ...know you; and find myself falling more and more... in love with you. 
speaker2: a prison a monastery a cloister a cave, prison monastery cloister cave, prison monastery cloister cave, prison monastery cloister cave, prison monastery cloister...

speaker1: prison. 
speaker2: dear susan. erich has been transferred to a prison back in sweden. he has profoundly affected my life and though i am lonely without him i am calmer than ever...
speaker2: though i only have 53 days left, i feel i have never been so well adjusted to prison and to living as now....
speaker3: allah off!

speaker1: asina covaciml. he is noticeably pale and weaker than before. 
speaker2: ...poor jimmy...
speaker3: ...though his health is bad he still won't give up...
speaker4: what's wrong?
speaker5: sit down a moment, billy. i'm afraid i have some bad news for you.
speaker4: something happen to dad?... mom?
speaker5: no... it looks like your going to have a new court.
speaker4: what do you mean?
speaker5: the prosecutor objected to your sentence for possession; he wanted a smuggling conviction and the high court in ankara reviewed it.

speaker1: and? 
speaker2: we've been notified that they rejected the sentence...
speaker2: there were 35 judges on the high court. twenty eight of them voted for a life sentence.
speaker2: the lower court in istanbul will have to go along with the decision. the judge likes you and he'll do the only thing he can do under the law.... . he'll reduce the sentence to thirty years... we're notified... billy.
speaker1: what do you mean life for for what!

speaker1: but i spent the last three and a half years of my life in your prison and i think i paid for my error and if it's your decision today to sentence me to more years, i... 
speaker2: you know my lawyers told me 'be cool billy don't get upset, don't get angry, if you're good i can maybe get a pardon, an amnesty, an appeal, this that and the other thing.' well that's been going down now for 35 years... yesil looks over, surprised he is talking like this. looks at davis.

speaker1: and i've been playing it cool and i've been good and now i'm tired of being good cause you people gave me the belief that i had 53 days left. you hung 53 days in front of my eyes and then you took those 53 days away, and mister prosecutor! i just wish you could... 
speaker1: ... stand right here where i'm standing and feel what that... ...feels like, cause then you'd know something you don't know you'd know what means, mister prosecutor and you'd know the concept of a society is based on the quality of its mercy means, of its sense of fair play, its sense of justice... but i guess that's just like asking a bear to in a toilet...

speaker1: for a nation of pigs, it's funny you don't eat them. it, give me the sentence. forgave the bastards, but i can't. i hate you. nation. i hate your i hate your people. and i your sons and daughters! 
speaker1: ...cause you're all pigs.

speaker1: would your honor like me to translate? 
speaker2: that won't be necessary
speaker2: my hands are tied by ankara!
speaker1: my hands are tied by ankara!

speaker1: ... to be imprisoned at sagamilcar for a term no less than thirty years...getchmis olsun 
speaker2: "i must sentence you, vilyum hiyes, to be imprisoned at sagamilcar for a term no less than years... "getchmis olsun"

speaker1: "busted at the border two keys in my shoes said i was busted at the border with two keys in my shoes an they gave me thirty years, babe to learn the old istanbul blues..." 
speaker1: "i said lord now save me please save me from this pain" billy, touched - listening, thinking.
speaker1: "i said lord come and save me, come save me from this pain come set me free sweet jesus..."
speaker2: hey knock off that music...
speaker2: ...we're playing the sas.
speaker3: omina koyden your sas! the two turks tense, the mood changing.
speaker3: ...and besides that i allah and i your muslim mother too...
speaker3: you got that, face? asina...

speaker1: cut it! no more fights. 
speaker1: we're getting out of here.

speaker1: we gotta take a chance and do that one next - then pull out this one - just jiggle it, scratch it out, loose nit up, it's soft real soft! 
speaker2: it's there!
speaker1: what?
speaker2: listen!
speaker1: i told you, i told you you cock- suckers! you didn't believe me.
speaker3: me! you beautiful mother, you!

speaker1: hey, ziat, hurry up with the tea will ay! 
speaker2: work, work, work, that's all do
speaker1: i don't hear you about the money.

speaker1: want me to take over? 
speaker2: you want to split your hernia again?
speaker3: get off our tits!

speaker1: let's go! 
speaker2: no. no time. put 'em back.

speaker1: we go early. any fuck-ups we should be back here and have the stones in by dawn. 
speaker1: you got your stuff?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker3: haps, railroad, bus timetables?
speaker2: everything.
speaker1: okay. let's do it.

speaker1: okay? 
speaker2: yeah!
speaker1: jimmy?
speaker3: what?
speaker1: how's your hernia?
speaker3: don't make me laugh.
speaker4: what do you mean, you forgot, he'll have my ass!
speaker5: well i can't do two things at once, you were supposed to be here at nine o'clock!

speaker1:  
speaker2: anybody bitten?

speaker1: nah, just covered with batshit! 
speaker2: they went out over there: must be some kind of exit.

speaker1: let's go back the other way. 
speaker2: the are we?
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker3: two thirty.
speaker1: 
speaker3: it's a dead end. the turks musta' sealed it up.
speaker2: what the we gonna do?
speaker1: we go back.

speaker1: what? you gotta be joking. 
speaker2: we go back, seal it up again, and come in tomorrow night - every night 'till we get out of here. there's gotta be a way. those bats got out someplace. now let's go. doubletime!
speaker1: you gotta have a lot of for this
speaker1: bell, suffering, can't help but grin.
speaker3: count me out. who ever heard of anybody sneaking back into a jail?
speaker1: yeah, what if got caught?
speaker2: hey max, don't make the dummy laugh.
speaker1: who's laughing? i mean i find this terribly depressing... can you see old hamidou's face when he tries to figure this one out?
speaker2: we'll tell him we were checking out our escape route. we wanted to be completely sure before we tried it.

speaker1: billy, wake up! they found it! 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: ziat!

speaker1: shut up! 
speaker1: no do! no do! i tell you i see you again.. finish!
speaker1: take him!
speaker2: no! oh no! no...
speaker3: you bastard! this time i'm gonna kick your brains all over this kitchen!
speaker4: fine. good. man to man. we fight now. and when finish i bring hamidou and he kick you fuckinq ass.
speaker5: max! cool it! ziat's just doing his job.

speaker1: bell's gonna talk. they got to find out. man, we gotta out. 
speaker1: gastro's killing me. making me blind. hey billy!
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: i got some acid man. maybe we can drop some on the guards huh? in their tea or something.
speaker1: yeah i got it all worked out. billy, listen to me. that old guard likes you, you drop some acid on him. when he's seeing rainbows yer know. walk out - tonight.
speaker2: then we're outside the kogus. then what?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: after we're outside the kogus?
speaker1: oh we... we...
speaker2: max... your billy shirt's on fire...
speaker1: oh oh christ!
speaker1: there just comes a time you know... you know you're never going to git it on.
speaker1: that's what i'm gonna do. billy looks up wondering.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: cut his throat.
speaker2: whose?
speaker1: ziat... what do i got to lose huh! what do i got to lose. and i'd really enjoy it.
speaker2: max, sit down. you're in no shape to kill anybody.
speaker1: i want to cut his throat.
speaker2: it's already been cut.
speaker1: then i'll cut his off.
speaker2: if you really wanted to hurt ziat
speaker2: ...his money - steal that, you steal his blood... could you see his face when everything he worked so hard to get got snatched? if we knew where he hid it. anyway, steal from him they'd pick up the whole prison and shake it sideways. we couldn't hide it anywhere.
speaker1: you know where it is?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: i know where it is.
speaker2: his money?
speaker1: 'dem dat hides can finds says i'... i seen him, the clever tit, sneaking looks at it late at night, talking to it.
speaker2: yeah? where?
speaker1: hishradyo.
speaker2: max - where?
speaker1: his radio back of his open, radio...
speaker1: that's why he never plays it...
speaker1: max sleeps.

speaker1: down here! ziat springs up. 
speaker2: we found it!

speaker1: ...he sell me tea business - everything. no the same. ziat lose all... heart! soul! 
speaker2: he never had one.
speaker1: soon he go back streets istanbul. thousand enemy. no money.
speaker2: i'll drink to that. just as:
speaker3: just got some news on bell.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: bad. sent to the city hospital. they ruptured his hernia again.
speaker2: oh

speaker1: why the suit? 
speaker2: maybe he's changing jobs.

speaker1: nebu? 
speaker1: nebu? starts to slap him around.
speaker2: what's going on? maybe ziat can't pay off; hamidou's taking it out in trade.
speaker1: where did you get this hash?
speaker3: from max. point at: max who stiffens, eyes like cracked eggs.
speaker2: you got to be kidding.
speaker1: what's happening with this hash?
speaker2: i didn't sell it to him. i don't have anything to do with this,

speaker1: i know your face. where did you get the hash? 
speaker2: ) (he knows nothing about it. ziat's lying.
speaker3: get out of here! he's lying! that cock-sucker! billy...?

speaker1: please, will you listen to me? will someone please listen to me? just listen to me! 
speaker2: hamidou! get hamidou! get the kiyisl!

speaker1: hop! hop! full moon - take your pills! 
speaker2: cigare? cigare? cigare?
speaker3: go away! turns on his other shoulder, trying to sleep.
speaker2: cigare? cigare?
speaker2: s'il vous plait, monsieur? s'il vous plait?

speaker1: you're an american? 
speaker1: ah yes, america! my name is ahmet. i studied philosophy at harvard for many many years. but actually oxford is my real alma mata - i've also studied in vienna. now i study here.
speaker1: ...they put me here. they say i raped a little boy. i have been here very long time. they will never let me go.
speaker1: they won't let you go either.
speaker1: no, they'll never let you go. they tell you they let you go but you stay. you never go from here.
speaker1: you see we all come from a factory. sometimes the factory makes bad machines that don't work. they put them here. the bad machines don't know they're bad machines, but the people at the factory know. they know one of the machines that doesn't work...

speaker1: sixty two, sixty three, sixty four.... 
speaker2: kabin on-yedi
speaker3: oh my god...!

speaker1: billy, what have they done to you...my 
speaker1: ...billy, your family is fine. senator buckley just made a special plea on your behalf in the senate. newsday has written several big articles about you. they've called you a in the poppy game between nixon and the turks. the letters are coming in, billy. people care....

speaker1: take it off. take it off! take it off. take it off! his voice is savage, demanding. 
speaker2: billy - you'll just make yourself crazy.

speaker1: oh billy, billy, i wish i could make it better for you. please don't... don't... tears. fear. 
speaker2: s.... susan?
speaker1: yes, billy?
speaker2: ...i love you.... it sounds pathetic, lost.
speaker1: oh billy... billy! don't give up. please don't give up. you'll get out. i know you will!
speaker1: billy, your father gave me this for you. there's pictures of your mom and dad...rob...peg... billy looks at it listlessly.
speaker1: and there's pictures in the back of your old mr. franklin. remember him... from the bank?
speaker1: he's over in greece now. he bought a ticket.
speaker3: visiting is over.
speaker1: i'll give it to them for you.
speaker1: you were right billy don't count on them, you hear, don't count on anybody but yourself!
speaker1: the attendant now swings open her door, annoyed.
speaker4: let's go!

speaker1: gower! 
speaker1: ahmet slides up next to billy in his rags.
speaker2: good morning, my american friend! there will be trouble if you go this way. a good turk always walks to the right. left is communist. right is good. you must go the other way... it's good.

speaker1: to know oneself is to know my friend. the factory knows. that's why they put you here. you'll see. you'll find out. later on you'll know. billy stops and turns to look at ahmet. his eyes glint with special knowledge and he takes ahmet into his confidence using the latter's tone of voice: 
speaker2: i already know. i know that you're a bad machine. that's why the factory keeps you here. you know how i know? i know because i'm from the factory. i make the machines.. i'm here to spy on you.

speaker1: no do! no do! reaches for and: 
speaker1: i tell you i see 'gain... i take you down to bath and your feet be big like...breasts
speaker2: first you make mistake with ziat, now you make mistake with money. you're not a new prisoner, vilyum hi-yes.

speaker1: you go crazy here vilyum hi-yes. many people go crazy here. best thing for crazy people is this... 
speaker1: vilyum hi-yes. you die here, hi- yes. whack - another blow, but:
speaker2: hamidou increasingly excited.
speaker1: babba sikijam! i your mother, i your sister...
speaker1: ...i your father, i your brother...

speaker1: how about a shoe shine, friend? 
speaker2: no!

speaker1: edirne to uzun kopru? the clerk looks puzzled. 
speaker2: what's the matter?
speaker3: 'what are you crazy? there's no train anymore to uzun kopru, it'd have to go through greece. the border's closed.
speaker2: no train?
speaker3: no more train.

speaker1: listen, i have swedish friends camping south of the town. i was supposed to meet them here this morning but i was late. can you take me there? 
speaker2: you know where they are?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: how far?
speaker1: about ten kilometers.
speaker2: sixty lira?
speaker1: sixty?

speaker1: those mountains? are they? 
speaker2: very bad now. maybe war. those greek pigs try to steal cyprus again ) how'd you lose your friends?
speaker1: oh, i drank a lot of raka last night in istanbul. got into a fight. indicates the bruises on his face.
speaker2: how come you speak turkish so good?
speaker1: did twenty months in prison in istanbul. hash
speaker2: you want to score some? cheap?
speaker1: no!

speaker1: the maritas river? where is it? 
speaker2: two miles! minefields over there. do you know where this campground is or not?
speaker1: not far. just a little way.
speaker2: no! i'm not going any further! it'll wreck my car.
speaker1: i'll pay extra
speaker2: how much?
speaker1: where are the minefields?
speaker2: all over. turkish army up there. it's against the law. they shoot us. you sure you looking for your friends, man?
speaker1: okay! ley me out right here. i'm getting tired of all this from you. i'll walk it.

speaker1: hey officer, we're looking for the campground. do you know where it is? 
speaker2: you're not supposed to be here
speaker1: he's a tourist, what do you want, he says he's looking for friends at the campground.
speaker2: campground? never heard of one.
speaker1: seen any swedish foreigners in a camper-bus?
speaker3: noldu?
speaker1: seen any foreigners in a camper bus? soldier circles the cab from the other side.
speaker4: okay, they haven't seen him, let's go back to town, it's getting late.

speaker1: foreigners! kamper. volkswagen 
speaker2: okay, let's go.
speaker1: is no volkswagen, man! something wrong with you? billy hardening. driver calling out. beer face turns.
speaker1: this guy's fishy...i think he might be trying to get to greece. billy looks around fast.

speaker1: i don't know, there's 
speaker2: get out -- right now, move!
speaker1: he's got a gun!

speaker1: pigs...! pigs...! 
speaker1: pigs... you... beautiful...
speaker2: billy muttering to himself, in turkish.
speaker1: greek?... greek?...
speaker3: ti leei?
speaker4: mou fainetai san toupkika billy with dimming strength.

