speaker1: "i know thy works and thy labour and how thou canst not bear them that are evil. and thou hast tried them who say they are apostles and hast found them to be liars". 
speaker2: what the does it mean?
speaker1: it means who's side are you on?
speaker2: you didn't ask me to meet you 30 miles from my office for a bible study class.
speaker1: it's a bi-partisan issue. everyone needs to swallow hard. no one, including you, wants to be fingered as the one obstructing efforts to crack down on terrorism, and--
speaker2: you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i said you.
speaker1: is that anyway to talk to an old school chum?
speaker2: you're gonna finger me as soft on terrorism?

speaker1: senator albert's office-- the line goes dead. 
speaker2: i don't know how much longer we can hold out, mr. dean.
speaker3: i don't know, either, l.t. maybe you guys should get yourself a labor lawyer.
speaker4: well that's why i'm here, mr. dean.
speaker3: good point.
speaker4: last night, larry spinks, he works the steel press, he goes to a bar with his wife rosalie to have a glass of chianti 'cause it's his birthday, and these two guys, these guido mother-fuckers, they jump him when he goes to the bathroom.
speaker3: l.t., in this office i'd prefer you say italian-americans.
speaker4: i'm sorry, mr. dean. but larry's in st. lukes now, so i'm a little--i'm not myself. the union bosses say unless we take bellmoth's offer, it'll only get worse.
speaker3: that's because your union bosses
speaker3: the union's trying to railroad you into accepting terms worse than what you have now.
speaker4: why would the union--
speaker3: because they've been paid off by bellmoth.
speaker4: mr. dean--
speaker3: my name's bobby. i'm your lawyer. don't do anything 'till i talk to you.
speaker3: martha!
speaker3: larry spinks, st. lukes. send him a case of chianti from the firm. and send his wife rosalie some flowers.

speaker1: how's the trout? 
speaker2: it tastes like fish.
speaker1: it is fish.
speaker2: i mean it tastes like every other fish i've ever had. every fish tastes the same.
speaker1: do you like fish?
speaker2: not that much.
speaker1: here's what you asked for. brill's note said it was everything you'd need to, shall we say, coax depinto--
speaker2: when do i get to meet him?
speaker1: depinto?
speaker2: brill.
speaker1: never.
speaker2: that wasn't the answer i was hoping for.
speaker1: what answer were you--
speaker2: "soon". or at least sooner than never.
speaker1: it's how he works.
speaker2: brill?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: so you've said.
speaker2: ten thousand cash. i don't know if it's brill's prices going up or your commission.
speaker1: i take a straight 15 percent. brill's fee varies with risk. perhaps you'd be more comfortable using someone else.
speaker2: other than brill.
speaker1: other than me.
speaker2: why would i--
speaker1: someone with whom you don't have quite so personal a--
speaker2: i
speaker2: i just want to make sure i'm not breaking the law.
speaker1: you're not.
speaker2: how can i be sure.
speaker1: i wouldn't let you. good luck with depinto.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: eat your fish.
speaker2: mr. depinto? my name's robert dean.

speaker1: what can i do for you? 
speaker2: well, i was hoping you might stop by my office to swear out a criminal deposition against some of your friends and co-workers.
speaker1: is this a joke?
speaker2: i don't believe it is, no.
speaker1: why the would i--
speaker2: i've got photographs of you at the trenton ramada looking very--
speaker1: that ain't me.
speaker2: it's not?
speaker1: you don't know who the fuck--
speaker2: that's not you having a whiskey sour with carmine morada.
speaker1: this is you don't know
speaker1: you're goddam right you jumped the gun.
speaker2: that's probably not you in the picture. i tell you what, i'll just run the thing by the grand jury, see if they can't--
speaker1: i want to talk to a goddam lawyer.
speaker2: good news there, mr. depinto, you're talking to one.

speaker1: don hamersley, senior gop congressional leader, was serving as a negotiator on the house/senate sub-committee studying the anti- terror bill... 
speaker1: ...the controversial legislation that would give various law enforcement agencies expanded authority in the fight against terrorism. and now we see what zavitz is staring at on his
speaker1: known as the voice of caution, hamersley was an outspoken advocate of...
speaker1: sixty-eight years old, hamersley leaves behind a wife and four children.
speaker2: tell him it's zavitz. i need to speak to him. tell him it's important.

speaker1: zavitz, what? you want your old job back? 
speaker2: listen to me--
speaker1: tired of chasing squirrels around the park?
speaker2: listen--
speaker1: lemme ask you something. i put a bird feeder out in the yard, but the squirrels, they keep taking--
speaker2: turn on cnn.
speaker1: they keep taking the bird seed. i thought since you're the expert on--
speaker2: goddammit, shut the up and turn on cnn!
speaker1: alright, i made a joke about squirrels, don't get so--
speaker2: do it!
speaker3: once again, police at this point are calling hamersley's death an accident...
speaker2: i was doing motion-activated taping up in shenandoah. that's where hamersley had his accident. he wasn't alone. he met someone. they argued.
speaker1: you've got it on tape?
speaker2: clear as day.
speaker1: who else have you told?

speaker1: no one. but i'm a little nervous. 
speaker2: when can you get it here?
speaker1: i'm doing a transfer now.
speaker2: come straight here. don't talk to anyone.
speaker1: i'll come straight there.
speaker2: be careful, danny.

speaker1: someone had automated cameras in the park. a nature photographer. 
speaker2: h. christ.
speaker3: how're we with pre-trials. ms.

speaker1: i'm expecting a favorable ruling this afternoon on the evidenciary motion, but i could use some more manpower with the interrogatories. 
speaker2: mr. dean, would you care to give ms. saunders a hand with the interrogatories.
speaker3: knows i would, sir, but i have a previous engagement this evening.
speaker2: and may i ask what could possibly be more important than fawell oil v.
speaker3: i have to go lingerie shopping.
speaker4: lingerie shopping?
speaker3: a christmas present for my wife.
speaker2: go to harrison's. they've got models that'll try the garments on for you.
speaker1: bobby, this is a 40 million dollar client. i really need some help tonight.
speaker3: diane, maybe you didn't hear mr. silverberg. they've got models that'll try on the garments. thank you, sir.
speaker2: merry christmas, son.

speaker1: there's a knock at the door... 
speaker2: yes?
speaker3: federal express for 'zavitz'.
speaker2: federal express?
speaker3: for daniel zavitz. i just need a signature.
speaker2: how'd you get in the building?
speaker3: the door was open, sir. i just need a signature.
speaker2: can you tell me who it's from?
speaker4: micro-tel electronics. sunland.
speaker2: can you--would it be possible to leave it by the door?
speaker4: not without a signature.

speaker1: go to three. go to three. package is out the window. 
speaker1: 305 to 308. we've got the eyeball.

speaker1: may i help you? 
speaker2: hm?!
speaker3: do you see anything you like?
speaker2: i'm married.
speaker3: that's fine.
speaker2: i'm married to my wife...of several years...and i'd like to buy...as a christmas present...
speaker3: you'd like to buy your wife some lingerie as a christmas gift.
speaker2: yes. i have her permission.
speaker3: it's okay. i think it's a wonderful gift.
speaker2: can you help me?
speaker3: how 'bout christian dior?
speaker2: is that good?
speaker3: very good.
speaker2: i don't know anything about this.
speaker2: i'll say.
speaker3: what size?
speaker2: pardon?
speaker3: what size?
speaker2: eight. size eight.
speaker3: i'll be right back.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: remain calm.
speaker2: okay.
speaker2: daniel?
speaker2: it's me, robert dean. from seth, silverberg. i worked on--
speaker4: bobby--
speaker2: it's been a few years.
speaker4: yeah.
speaker2: i'm just doing some christmas shopping. it's for my wife, no kidding. though, this isn't the
speaker2: tell me about it.
speaker4: how can i reach you?
speaker2: are you okay?
speaker4: are you still in crystal city?
speaker2: yeah, what's going on?
speaker3: i think she'll like this very much.
speaker2: listen, daniel, hang on one second.
speaker3: for that matter, i think you will too.
speaker2: could you give me just a moment to talk to a friend of mine here? not about this, but...daniel? dean looks around...
speaker2: what happened?
speaker5: a guy got hit by a bus.
speaker2: ah,

speaker1: excuse me, have any of you seen an eight year old boy, good looking, about yea-big. 
speaker2: hi, dad.
speaker3: hi, mr. dean.
speaker1: hello. hello, maria.
speaker4: hello, mr. dean.
speaker2: we can't get to the fourth level. we keep getting vaporized by the black knight.
speaker1: you're learning a cruel lesson.
speaker2: are those my christmas presents?
speaker1: some of 'em.
speaker2: can i open 'em up?
speaker1: sure, go ahead.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: in your dreams.
speaker2: dad!
speaker1: you staying for dinner?
speaker3: is it okay?
speaker1: you got any money?
speaker2: he's kidding.
speaker1: where's mom?
speaker2: she's in the kitchen.
speaker5: laws service society and they need to be flexible to meet changing demands. we've got to be able to deal with a terrorist threat
speaker6: this guy's a fat-assed rotarian gasbag.
speaker1: uh-oh.
speaker6: listen to him.
speaker5: this is no longer a theoretical problem, it's a reality. turn on the news. bombings, hostages--
speaker1: he's got a point.
speaker6: bobby!
speaker1: not a very good one, but--
speaker6: so you tap everyone's phone? you use computers to probe financial records? new search and seizure laws?
speaker1: just for the criminals.
speaker6: we won't suspend the civil rights of the good people.
speaker1: right.
speaker6: you should take this seriously.
speaker1: i think you're taking it seriously enough for both of us.
speaker6: you're a lawyer. don't you care what's going on around you?
speaker1: something bad happened tonight.
speaker6: what?
speaker1: i saw a man die.
speaker6: what do you mean?
speaker1: in front of harrison's, he got hit by a bus. i knew him. the firm did some pro bono work for his organization a few years back.
speaker6: i'm sorry.
speaker1: the thing is, when i saw him, it seemed like he wanted to tell me... ...he was upset about something and he said... doesn't matter now. i'm gonna wash up.
speaker6: what'd you buy at harrison's?
speaker1: a toaster. and no terrorist talk at dinner. you're spookin' the kids.
speaker7: "do thou, o lord, protect us--

speaker1: --guard us ever from this generation. on every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the sons of men." psalms 12.7 and 12.8. tell me what this means, mr. o'brian. 
speaker2: it means--

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: he's dead. an accident. hit by a bus.
speaker1: what about the tapes?
speaker2: we found the originals.
speaker1: the originals?
speaker2: there was a transfer.
speaker1: am i to understand--
speaker2: he never made it to the newspaper, but there was private sector contact.
speaker1: who?
speaker2: several indiscriminates and one primary who we've id'd as robert dean. a crystal city attorney. mr. reynolds? sir?
speaker1: contact cointel. profile. assess the threat. then cross-check against zavitz. red-flag the intersects and anything we can exploit. also nro. pull up the keyhole tapes. i need to own him. i need to own him

speaker1: - and two atm cameras. the one showing promise, though, is this security camera from the department store. freeze there. 
speaker1: times ten.
speaker1: focus on the drop.
speaker1: enhance, then forward, frame by frame...
speaker1: just before the view's blocked, zavitz reaches in his jacket for something. when the view returns, there's a shape change in dean's bag. see the shadow variance? we reverse imaged it--
speaker1: something's definitely been added. it's not a video cassette, the shadow's wrong.
speaker2: what's your opinion?
speaker1: it's hard to say for certain, these things are--
speaker2: i'm not asking you to say for certain. this is what you're trained to do, right?
speaker1: yes sir.
speaker2: then what's your goddam opinion?
speaker1: zavitz had digital compression equipment. he could've downloaded into something. a disk, a chip, anything small enough to put in his pocket and run with. whatever he put it in, he dropped it in that bag.
speaker2: get it.
speaker3: we'd have to--
speaker2: get it.

speaker1: bobby? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: how'd you get the information on depinto?
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: who did you work with to get the--
speaker2: a guy named brill. same guy as always.
speaker1: yeah, but you said you've never met him. how did you--
speaker2: honey, i don't like to talk about this stuff in front of eric.
speaker1: have you been working with rachel?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: it's okay.

speaker1: they took the espresso machine. the 
speaker1: no.
speaker2: you've got a bunch of armani suits, they didn't take 'em?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: usually they take clothes.
speaker1: why don't you give 'em a call.
speaker2: what about jewelry?
speaker1: they didn't take the jewelry. they took the computers. they took the big-screen tv, they took my blender.
speaker2: the blender?
speaker1: i love my blender.
speaker2: they didn't take the silverware?
speaker1: no, but they took my blender.
speaker2: sounds like they didn't want anything that wasn't electric?
speaker1: what?
speaker2: they only took electrical appliances.
speaker1: serve the ball.
speaker3: robert dean?
speaker1: yes?
speaker4: i didn't want to bother you during your racquetball game.
speaker1: thanks. who are you?
speaker4: i'm sorry. detective morelos.
speaker1: hey, did you guys find my stuff?
speaker4: your stuff?
speaker1: the robbery.
speaker4: no, sir, i'm not involved with that. i'm doing a quick follow-up on a bus accident took place a few nights ago. your name keeps coming up.
speaker1: oh...yeah, i didn't see the accident.
speaker4: witnesses said you were there, but i notice you didn't file a report.
speaker1: a report?
speaker4: a police report.
speaker1: that's 'cause i
speaker1: i was
speaker1: about what?
speaker4: about the accident.
speaker1: i'm no expert, but i'm assuming that the impact of a moving bus against his body caused--
speaker4: mr. zavitz was in trouble.
speaker1: what kind of trouble.
speaker4: you tell me.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker4: are you invoking attorney/client privilege.
speaker1: i'm not his attorney.
speaker4: than why can't you tell me.
speaker1: because i don't know.
speaker4: i'm just trying to determine if mr. zavitz was involved in something more than a simple bus accident.
speaker1: than why don't you talk to the bus driver?
speaker4: why so edgy, mr. dean?
speaker1: somebody took my blender.
speaker4: we'd appreciate your cooperation.
speaker1: i'm happy to help you all i can. but i didn't see the accident and i barely knew daniel zavitz. i've gotta go to work.
speaker4: did he give you anything?
speaker1: no.
speaker4: anything at all?
speaker1: no, sir.
speaker4: was he with anyone?
speaker1: not that i could see.
speaker4: nobody gave you
speaker4: why'd you go to harrison's?
speaker1: to buy lingerie.
speaker4: for your wife?

speaker1: i don't know what's goin' on with zavitz, but that was way, 
speaker2: 403 to 401. he's coming up.

speaker1: 'morning, mr. dean. 
speaker2: hey. would you get me what i need for zwernickii and the bellmoth motions.
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: and do me a favor. find out what you can about daniel zavitz. we did some work for him a few years back and there should be a file.

speaker1: burns got a phone call this morning from someone wanting information on you. 
speaker2: the police?
speaker1: no. he said they were doing a credit check. are you refinancing a loan?
speaker2: you remember daniel zavitz?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: he got hit by a bus.
speaker1: what does that have to do with you?
speaker2: i honestly don't know.
speaker1: was zavitz in trouble?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: you think there was a connection to--
speaker2: i just told you. i don't know.

speaker1: mr. dean? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: we'd like to ask you some questions about daniel zavitz.
speaker2: who
speaker2: i went through this with an investigator this morning. if i could--
speaker1: mr. zavitz was involved in an extortion scheme. we believe he passed you sensitive materials, possibly with your knowledge, and we need to--
speaker2: he didn't.
speaker1: we believe he did.
speaker2: you're wrong.
speaker1: we have good reason to believe that he passed you--
speaker2: if he passed me materials, i'd have them. i don't.
speaker1: we'd like to recover any materials mr. zavitz may have given you--
speaker2: he didn't
speaker2: otherwise you may have to what?
speaker1: we'd rather not--
speaker2: you. you may have to what?
speaker3: we may have to explore additional avenues.

speaker1: he didn't 
speaker1: otherwise you may have to what?
speaker2: we'd rather not--
speaker1: you. you may have to--
speaker3: he's arrogant and threatening. voice stress points suggest he's worrying.
speaker4: hiding something?
speaker3: it was in his bag. now it's not.
speaker4: destroy his credibility before he goes public. neutralize him. i don't want anyone listening to a word he has to say. tell me about rachel banks.

speaker1: can i talk to you a second? 
speaker2: table 122?
speaker1: that's what i want to talk to you about?
speaker2: i wrote a check for a thousand dollars. you guys didn't have a table that was in the kitchen?
speaker1: the congressman's very happy to have your support, but he's heard that there's an investigation.
speaker2: an investigation? it was a bus accident.
speaker1: he's heard that it's escalated.
speaker2: into what?
speaker1: your bellmoth case. the fbi thinks there might be mob ties.
speaker2: i'm a labor lawyer. there are

speaker1: i don't understand why jerry couldn't clear this up. 
speaker2: well, you know--
speaker1: he's got his priorities?
speaker2: there's just, clearly, some administrative snafu. i'm sure this is the worst of it.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: it's rachel banks.

speaker1: i got a call from my firm this morning saying don't come in. 
speaker2: why?
speaker1: there are reporters wanting to know about my relationship with you and how long i've worked for the mob.
speaker3: blake and silverberg want you in the conference room.
speaker2: 

speaker1: listen-- 
speaker2: i got a call this morning from a source i trust. the post is running a lead this afternoon about your involvement in the bellmoth investigation.
speaker1: i don't under--
speaker3: we've also been informed that the grand jury is going to call for an investigation into your affairs.
speaker1: why?
speaker3: they want to hold you in contempt for ethics violations.
speaker2: they claim you helped create a shell company for sam vollotti in zurich and that through your continuing relationship, the gambino family's been able to exert influence and provide false witnesses to discredit our case.
speaker1: oh, well, that's true.
speaker3: it is?
speaker1: except for the part about my setting up a company in zurich and knowing anyone named sam vollotti and having any relationship whatsoever with the gambino family.
speaker2: robert--
speaker1: gimme a week and four guys from litigation and i'll have the post pleading with us not to sue for libel.
speaker3: tell us about rachel banks.
speaker1: rachel banks?
speaker2: the attorney?
speaker3: have you two been having an affair?
speaker1: what kind of a question is that?
speaker3: a direct one.
speaker1: i have a professional relationship with rachel banks. she's the go- between for a private investigator i use.
speaker2: what's his name?
speaker1: brill.
speaker3: why don't you just call brill directly.
speaker1: i don't know who he is.
speaker3: i'm told you had an affair with rachel banks four years ago.
speaker1: told by whom?
speaker3: considering the enormous exposure to which you've subjected this firm, i'd think you'd do best to simply answer my questions.
speaker1: really?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: well considering what a colossal douche bag you are, david, maybe i'd do best to simply kick your all over the capitol.
speaker2: gentlemen--
speaker1: this is
speaker1: maybe bellmoth. maybe the unions. i don't know.
speaker2: well until we find, you're gonna have to take a leave of absence.
speaker1: you're firing me.
speaker2: a leave of absence. until we've sorted this all out.
speaker1: put david on it. he seems anxious to clear my name.
speaker2: bobby--
speaker1: off.
speaker1: stacy!
speaker4: robert--
speaker1: where's stacy?
speaker4: she doesn't want to talk to you.
speaker1: what are you talking--
speaker4: she can't talk to you right now.
speaker1: why?
speaker4: because she's reading the newspaper, you

speaker1: stacy? 
speaker2: how could you let me find out like this?
speaker1: stacy, i found out like this. this is the first i'm
speaker1: it's not true.
speaker2: "sources revealed an fbi investigation into a possible money laundering scheme that may have sent millions of dollars--
speaker1: i've seen it.
speaker2: "at the center of the investigation are well-known washington-area attorneys robert dean and rachel banks."
speaker1: yeah...look-- stacy whips the paper at him--
speaker2: you
speaker2: i told you i didn't want you seeing her.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: you had an affair with this woman, robert, we went to a
speaker2: you told me you weren't seeing her at
speaker2: the date stamp on the picture is last
speaker2: oh, please--
speaker1: it's not a real picture, stacy, it's been doctored-up.
speaker2: i think you should leave now, robert.
speaker1: stacy--
speaker2: leave this house.

speaker1: i'm sorry, sir, this card's been declined. 
speaker2: it's a brand new card.
speaker1: maybe it's not connected yet.
speaker2: here, you can use this.
speaker1: i'm sorry.
speaker2: my suitcase--
speaker1: sir?
speaker2: my suitcase is gone.
speaker1: i'm sure we can locate it for you, sir.
speaker2: don't count on it.

speaker1:  
speaker2: have you ever tucked your kid in from a phone booth? you will--

speaker1: in richmond today, senate majority leader sam albert paid a visit to promote the ten-billion dollar anti-terror bill. the newscast cuts to sam albert, late 60's, standing on state capitol building steps delivering a speech to community leaders. 
speaker2: america is under assault, and this time it's from within. the gangs, the terrorists, the drug lords, the cults... pulling away from the tv, we explore the room. dimly lit and cluttered with tired furniture.

speaker1: i'm sorry. i'm not sure i understand. 
speaker2: what'd this guy say his name was?
speaker1: this is bobby dean, the jew lawyer who squeezed depinto.
speaker3: actually, that's not true.
speaker1: you didn't squeeze depinto?
speaker3: no, i meant i'm presbyterian.
speaker1: oh.
speaker3: my wife's jewish. but that probably doesn't matter right now.
speaker2: what is it you want?
speaker3: someone's trying to destroy my life, and i'd like to find out who.
speaker1: and then what?
speaker3: i'll see if i can, you know, work things out.
speaker2: well we'd sure like to help you.
speaker3: you would?
speaker2: yes. but we can't.
speaker3: why not?
speaker2: because we, and our associates, have paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to shyster lawyers like you,
speaker4: he shot wildlife footage--

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: because my life is being ruined.
speaker1: daniel's life is already ruined. maybe if you guys stopped thinking about yourselves for a change and--

speaker1: rachel? 
speaker2: good. you're just what i need right now.
speaker1: you got a minute?
speaker2: it's really not a good idea for me to be seen with you.
speaker1: who's doing this?
speaker2: i gotta go.
speaker1: will you hang on just a second.
speaker3: rachel? there a problem?
speaker2: no. no problem. outside.

speaker1: there's a lot of people asking questions about you and me. 
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: the irs contacted me this morning. they say my lifestyle and receipts exceed my income.
speaker2: you being audited?
speaker1: for the last four years.
speaker2: my firm'll represent you. free of charge.
speaker1: you don't work there anymore, bobby.
speaker2: that's temporary.
speaker1: 
speaker2: rachel--
speaker1: we're screwed.
speaker2: i'm gonna fix it.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: tell me about brill.

speaker1: i can't. 
speaker2: you have to.
speaker1: i've never met him?
speaker2: goddammit, rachel, you assured me--
speaker1: you. when you needed information, i got it. you didn't care how.
speaker2: i
speaker2: what're you gonna do, rachel? you gonna sit in a bar in baltimore? you want your job back? you want a life?
speaker1: i don't
speaker1: what makes you think it's you?
speaker2: it's not me?
speaker1: you're a you know that?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: when i need to reach brill, i chalk the mailbox on 14th and main.

speaker1: the drop's behind seat 74. i leave something, he picks it up later. 
speaker2: any idea what he looks like?
speaker1: my guess is male, somewhere in his 40's or 50's.
speaker1: race, height, weight, you're on your own.
speaker1: now i don't know how he's gonna feel about someone tracking him down. he's reclusive. i'm sure he has his reasons.

speaker1: what?! you want money?! 
speaker2: shut the up.
speaker2: your shoe.
speaker1: my shoe?
speaker2: gimme the shoe.
speaker1: brill?
speaker3: brill's dead. he died of small pox when he was two and he was buried in a kansas field. my name doesn't matter.
speaker3: a tracker. thousand yard range. they're close.
speaker3: c'mon.

speaker1: what happened? 
speaker2: it started with the information you gave me on depinto. after we talked, he agreed to resign. next, a phony detective asked me about daniel zavitz. then an investigator questioned me about an extortion scheme they claimed zavitz was behind. the fbi started looking into mob connections. a doctored picture in the paper. overnight, i'm ruined. wife. job, bank accounts, everything gone.
speaker1: depinto's dead.
speaker2: oh
speaker1: they found him yesterday folded neatly in a car trunk. what about zavitz?
speaker2: i don't know anything about zavitz.
speaker1: you said he was behind an extortion scheme.

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: what'd he say to you?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: what'd he give to you?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: don't me, i can save your life.
speaker1: i'm telling you, i--
speaker1: i just gave him my card.
speaker2: he didn't give you an address? he didn't give you a phone number?
speaker1: nothing. two nights later i was
speaker1: um...who's that?
speaker2: don't know. did you check everywhere? maybe it was hidden in something.
speaker1: someone else?
speaker2: maybe you bumped into someone who took it and you didn't even know.
speaker2: 
speaker2: 209 to anyone! i need some help here!
speaker1: who are you calling?!

speaker1: stacy, don't hang up. 
speaker2: do you know what i'm looking at robert?
speaker1: stacy--
speaker2: i'm looking at a picture of you and rachel taken
speaker2: was that doctored-up, too?
speaker1: no, i was with her yesterday. i want you to take eric and go to our parents house. i want you to do it right now.
speaker2: i went to the grocery store. my atm and credit cards didn't work. i couldn't buy food.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: i went to the bank to see why. they said you emptied our accounts--
speaker1: it wasn't me.
speaker2: this is science-fiction robert! the manager showed me the transfer notice with your signature on it.
speaker1: stacy, somebody's trying to kill me.
speaker2: my father's put me in touch with an attorney. he'll be--
speaker3: put the phone down. do as i say.
speaker1: alright, alright--
speaker3: move to the elevators.

speaker1: 30 minutes ago you said we had him. 
speaker2: he had help.
speaker1: help from whom? christ.

speaker1: hey! 
speaker2: forget me, forget what i did for you. don't
speaker1: you're brill.
speaker3: you knew the deal. no contact.
speaker1: who was that other guy?
speaker3: one of many people who would live a word with you.
speaker1: who are they?
speaker3: you've heard of the national security agency?
speaker1: what do they have to do with this?
speaker3: that's who they are.
speaker1: the nsa?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: you're crazy.
speaker3: okay.
speaker1: wait.
speaker3: you drive a black bmw, license plate srk1339?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker3: i clipped this from your wheel well just before they towed your car away. brill pulls out a disk-shaped object the size of a walk-man.
speaker1: what
speaker1: i don't know what that means.
speaker3: like a lowjack, but two generations ahead of what the police use. it pulses at 230 giga-hertz.
speaker1: i don't know what that means.
speaker3: 230 giga-hertz. they use that band for the aquacade spy-sat uplinks.
speaker1: i don't know what that means.
speaker3: it means the nsa can read the time off your wristwatch.
speaker1: why are they after
speaker3: pal, you're cooked. it's over. what you did, who you were...that's done. i'd find a quiet job somewhere shoveling snow.
speaker1: why don't they just identify themselves and tell me what they want?
speaker3: they're spooks.
speaker1: i don't know what that--
speaker3: exposure. they can't have it. they wanna learn what you know and then deal with it.
speaker1: i don't know
speaker1: what am i gonna do?! i mean, like, for the rest of my
speaker1: what if--
speaker3: look, you gave me some work over the last year. we'll call it even.
speaker1: what if i find out what they're after. you know these people, i don't.
speaker3: and you won't. now move--
speaker1: i'll pay you.
speaker3: they froze your accounts. get outa my way.
speaker1: i've got a hundred-thousand dollars in jewelry in a safe-deposit box under a third party name.
speaker1: how many years have

speaker1: 303 to 301. floor one secured. moving to two. 
speaker2: open the door, mr. dean. there's nowhere to go. we'd just like to talk. seeing a phone, dean grabs it. no tone. just a recording of nancy sinatra's song "these boots are made for walking".
speaker2: it'd be easier for all of us if you just come out. nothing'll happen.
speaker2: it's quite hopeless what you're doing, mr. dean.
speaker3: i swear to i'll shoot.
speaker2: i think you might be over-reacting there, mr. dean. we just want to talk.
speaker3: go ahead. i hear you fine.
speaker3: i said i'll shoot! the door keeps pushing. dean fires high. the pushing stops.
speaker4: dean ducks as a blinding flash rocks the room.
speaker5: i don't

speaker1: tell him to stop the ambulance. 
speaker2: whoa there, fella. just take it easy.
speaker1: tell him to stop the ambulance.
speaker2: now you're a little shaken up, but we're gonna get you on your feet in--
speaker2: --stop the ambulance.
speaker1: thank you.

speaker1: i sit on top of the greatest intelligence gathering organization in human history. why can't i bring in a man whose name 
speaker1: he's clever? he had help? oh.
speaker2: sir--
speaker1: no, no, i'm sorry. i didn't realize you were hoping to be transferred to a weathership outside greenland.
speaker2: i just meant--
speaker1: i don't care if he's solomon with saint joseph sitting in his
speaker3: puffed cheese?
speaker1: no thank you.
speaker3: i also have tiny pizzas and mushrooms stuffed with--
speaker1: do i look like i want a tiny pizza?
speaker3: no.
speaker1: then let's assume i don't.
speaker3: yes sir.
speaker1: now is that clear?
speaker3: yes sir.

speaker1: rachel? 
speaker1: rachel? she doesn't respond. he touches her. nothing. he turns her over. her face is frozen, eyes open, neck purpled and bruised with signs of strangulation.
speaker1: oh god--

speaker1: jerry-- 
speaker2: christ!
speaker1: ssh!
speaker2: bobby--
speaker1: it's the nsa. they're the ones doing this.
speaker2: bobby--
speaker1: the nsa's doing this 'cause they think i have something. and they killed--
speaker2: calm down.
speaker1: they killed rachel.
speaker2: rachel's dead?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: 
speaker1: my stuff's all over her apartment.
speaker2: bobby--
speaker1: they're framing me.
speaker2: why would they--
speaker1: i don't know. i mean--
speaker2: why would the nsa--
speaker1: i don't know!
speaker2: you're tired.
speaker1: jerry--
speaker2: listen to me.
speaker1: you gotta--
speaker2: no, listen to me. you gotta let me bring you in.
speaker1: no, i--
speaker2: you gotta let me bring you in to the police.
speaker1: i won't
speaker1: to the nsa. make a deal. tell 'em to stop. tell 'em i don't have what they're after. make a deal.
speaker2: bobby, you're in way over your head.
speaker1: go to 'em, jerry.
speaker2: i have a family.
speaker1: so do i!
speaker2: i'm sorry, man.
speaker1: no. no, it's okay.
speaker2: bobby? piece of advice?
speaker1: yeah?
speaker2: turn yourself in.
speaker1: jerry?
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: go yourself.

speaker1: listen to me. the house is bugged. so we gotta be quiet, okay? 
speaker1: is eric in school?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: has anyone been by? police? fbi?
speaker2: just reporters.
speaker1: i wish you'd gone to your parents like i asked you.
speaker2: this is my house. nobody's kicking me out of my house. i picked those drapes.
speaker1: i don't think anybody wants the drapes, stacy, i think the drapes are okay.
speaker2: what happened to your head?
speaker1: i was in a car chase and a small explosion. now listen to me: the nsa is behind this. they think that guy i told you about, daniel zavitz, they think zavitz gave me a tape or computer chip of some kind that could be damaging to them. so they're doing all these things
speaker1: well...yeah.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: stacy--
speaker2: i
speaker2: i'm sorry i didn't believe you.
speaker1: that's okay.
speaker2: i opened the present you got me from harrison's.
speaker1: you opened the thing?
speaker2: the lingerie.
speaker1: that was for christmas.
speaker2: i was missing you.
speaker1: you're as bad as eric. i've got an entire family of people who root through--
speaker1: ...who root through...uh...presents, and...
speaker2: what is it?
speaker1: oh christ.
speaker3: 504 to 501. rover's fleeing west on sutton. driver appeared
speaker3: she's off location with a friend.
speaker4: alright - move! 501 - all units.

speaker1: eric? 
speaker1: your father's here.

speaker1: dad! 
speaker2: do i know you?
speaker1: where've you been?
speaker2: having an adventure. i can't tell you about it right now, but i'll tell you about it soon.
speaker1: are you and mom getting a divorce?
speaker2: no. we're never getting a divorce. we were having a fight. it happens sometimes.
speaker1: who won the fight?
speaker2: men don't win fights with women, son, i'll tell you about that sometime, too. in the meantime, i've got a question for you, and it's incredibly important that you tell me the truth. under no circumstances will i be angry with you. this is a total get-out-of- jail-free card. ready?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: did you take

speaker1: hey, mr. d., what's happenin'? 
speaker2: dylan, i was just asking eric if--
speaker1: oh, i
speaker1: it was broken when we found it, i swear. i tried fixing it for you. i even put in new batteries. the screen scrambles whenever you boot up. i'd try to get your money back. dean eyes the pieces of the gameboy, knowing that

speaker1: get dressed. we're leaving. 
speaker2: you could knock on the door, you know, and i'd open it.
speaker1: move it.

speaker1: dean, the attorney recently under investigation for a money laundering scheme, was seen leaving ms. banks apartment late last night. 
speaker1: police are seeking--
speaker2: i taped it off the 11 o'clock news.
speaker3: and you were worried about me.
speaker2: i was worried about my hundred and twenty 'k'.
speaker3: we said a hundred.
speaker2: the price rises with the temperature and right now you're smokin'. but you're right, you should shop around and get the best price. i'll just let you out here.
speaker3: one-twenty. brill checks the rear-view mirror.
speaker2: did you call anyone?
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker2: i mean did you call anyone.
speaker3: look, my wife is understandably--
speaker2: 
speaker3: i called my wife!
speaker2: what'd i tell you?
speaker3: i didn't use my name.
speaker2: what'd i tell you?
speaker3: i called from a payphone!
speaker2: what'd i tell you?
speaker3: you told me no calls.
speaker2: i told you no calls.
speaker3: sorry.
speaker2: you don't get it. they go through your phone records. they monitor everyone you called in the last--
speaker3: i didn't use my name.
speaker2: oh, i'll bet
speaker2: a hundred and fifty.

speaker1: the nsa's been in bed with the entire tele-communications industry since the 40's. they've infected everything: banks, computers, phones, mail, name it. the more technology we buy into, the easier it is keeping tabs on us. it's a brave new world. at least it better be. 
speaker2: how do you know so much?
speaker1: none of your business.
speaker2: you used to work for 'em, didn't you?
speaker1: i was a traffic analyst.
speaker1: i intercepted phone calls.
speaker2: how'd you get around the tap orders?
speaker1: they can tap anything as along as it's an airwave intercept. cellulars and pagers your kid can do. hard-line calls we'd pick off the relays as they were being fed into ground cables or fired up to the sats. we'd in everything. all foreign, most domestic. domestic was my group. druggies, radicals, loud-mouths. anyone we wanted.
speaker2: how'd you have the manpower to--
speaker1: meade has 18 underground acres of computers. they scan
speaker1: that was twenty years ago. with digital? they can a salt grain off a beach.
speaker2: why'd you leave?
speaker1: it was '72. i figured we had enough problems without monitoring a berkeley kid's class schedule. so i sold my story to
speaker1: well...there'd be too much disclosure to prosecute me. so they ruined my records and made sure i'd never hold a real job again.
speaker1: what do you think?
speaker2: looks like detroit.
speaker1: welcome to santa's workshop.

speaker1: i call it the jar. no phone or utility lines going in. 
speaker1: self-contained. unplugged from the world. nothing for a wire bug to piggy- back in on. that leaves only transmitters and signal sweep for those. now let's see what we got.

speaker1: that is one ugly sunrise. 
speaker2: it really is. did you find anything?
speaker1: yeah. take a walk with me.
speaker1: remember when senator hamersley died in an accident up near shenandoah?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: the nsa killed him.
speaker2: do you have proof?
speaker1: well, actually,
speaker1: they're here.
speaker2: who?
speaker1: them.
speaker2: where?
speaker1: here?

speaker1: 'kay, well, could you walk faster, please. 
speaker2: they're heading to the car.
speaker3: move it.

speaker1: empty 'em 'till they're almost flat. and turn your head. there might be some debris flying your way. 
speaker2: why?
speaker2: what the
speaker1: they shouldn't have come without calling first.
speaker1: where's your gun?
speaker2: back at the warehouse.
speaker2: gimme that.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: you're driving.
speaker1: those are feds.

speaker1: think we let out enough air? 
speaker2: oh my

speaker1: we lost 'em. 
speaker2: that wasn't so hard.
speaker1: fuckin-a.
speaker2: let's not do the tire thing anymore, okay?
speaker1: yeah, i can see where that'd-- he stops talking.
speaker1: these guys are incredibly persistent.
speaker2: tell me about it.

speaker1: drive. 
speaker2: we're not gonna hurt you.
speaker1: drive.
speaker2: tell him we're not gonna hurt him.
speaker1: drive or i'll blow your head off.
speaker2: no he won't.
speaker1: goddammit--
speaker2: we're honest people and we need your help. i'll give you two- hundred dollars if you--
speaker3: take it!
speaker2: actually, i don't have two-hundred dollars.
speaker1: drive the car!

speaker1: we found two sets of latent prints in the rubble of brill's studio. one was dean's. the other, we believe, belongs to brill. 
speaker2: we believe?
speaker1: well...his real name's edward lyle.
speaker2: lyle?!
speaker1: yes sir.
speaker2: you're kidding me.
speaker1: no sir.
speaker2: dean's with lyle.
speaker1: and they have the video. that's confirmed.
speaker2: so they know everything.
speaker1: if they've looked at the video.
speaker2: oh, let's assume that they have.
speaker1: if he's with lyle it means he's got resources.
speaker2: resources, that's a good point. he's got resources. all we've got is a

speaker1: listen to you, "directly". you're not gonna get 
speaker1: same thing?
speaker2: so what do we do now?
speaker1: i was thinkin' about asking for my hundred and fifty grand and calling it quits.
speaker2: what if we do a mailing to congressmen.
speaker1: it'd never get through. all packages are screened, x-rayed and then hand-searched for explosives. you didn't like my "give-me-my- money" idea?
speaker2: what if we hand deliver to their homes or office?
speaker1: the area's wired for surveillance, they'll be

speaker1: what if we put it on the internet? 
speaker2: have you seen how slow the net is? it'd take ten minutes to unload enough video so that people know what they're seeing, and it'd take the nsa maybe 40 seconds to see it coming down and shut down the access.
speaker3: --this will be the last stop on the senator's eight-city tour before the senate votes on tuesday.
speaker2: but maybe if there were no phone line-- dean has started listening to the radio...
speaker2: what if we transmitted it over cellular?
speaker1: listen--
speaker2: nah, they'd shut down the pin number.
speaker1: what if--
speaker2: if they couldn't do that, they'd shut down the whole system, all the relays.
speaker1: what if--
speaker2: they've done it before. takes maybe two minutes.
speaker1: what if--
speaker2: what if
speaker2: how?
speaker1: same way they did with you and me. we take their biggest guy and turn him into one of us.
speaker2: reynolds.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: who?

speaker1: you wanna get caught spying on albert? 
speaker2: no, i want the nsa to get caught spying on albert.
speaker2: we're gonna lead albert by the nose to one conclusion. and then when he's as hell, we're gonna drop the tape in his lap. how fast can you teach me what i need to know?
speaker1: how fast can you learn?

speaker1: pretty fast. 
speaker2: we'll have to re-stock some basics.
speaker2: bugs, frequency scanners, contact mics, transmitters, pin-holes, fiber optics--

speaker1: what do you know about locking cellular phone signals? 
speaker2: i know my phone number and i know the number for sportsphone. beyond that--
speaker1: 

speaker1: a 'modified' oki 900 interfaced with a lap-top creates an enormously powerful tool. i got into the software, did some code re-writing and turned it into one of the best scan-looking systems around. 
speaker1: this is every call on the grid. i can lock and position any one i want and follow the hand-offs in real time.
speaker2: super shuttle.
speaker3: this is dr. jonathan phillips, 102 stern drive in brockton. i need an airport ride on friday at 6 pm with a return pick-up monday at 5.
speaker1: need a place to stay for the weekend? a new tv?
speaker4: triple-a emergency road service. may i have your name and membership number?
speaker5: colleen crane. card number 020-113--
speaker6: unbelievable.
speaker1: all from a hundred dollar scanner at radio shack. but it's time for business. brill dials his computer into a new line. tones and
speaker6: what are you dialing?
speaker1: ameritech's data-base. there's albert's d.c. office address and his phone's identity code. now we just reprogram out phone with his id code and you know what we've got?
speaker7: --don't think it could've gone any better. tell me, how's deb? how're my grandchildren?
speaker1: a receiver tuned permanently to the senator's phone.
speaker8: melissa has a fever. when will you be in the room?

speaker1: can you send someone up right away. i'm having a problem with my tv... it's screeching and i-- it's screeching and i-- christa is noticing that her voice is causing the tv image to distort in sync. 
speaker1: it's screeching and i can't turn it off.

speaker1: what happened to you last night? 
speaker2: christa found it last night attached to her tv. it's a listening device.
speaker1: a bug?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: h.--
speaker2: we should everything checked. there's a company in cambridge called baudmore. they're discreet.
speaker1: well get somebody down here today.

speaker1: he's going into the payphone outside the restaurant. it's a cambridge company called baudmore. 
speaker2: got it.
speaker2: baudmore consultants.
speaker3: is jerry delsano in?
speaker2: who's calling?
speaker3: it's pat cary. i work for senator sam albert and i was given jerry's name.
speaker2: jerry's on vacation 'till monday. i can give him the message when he gets back. that was patrick and the last name--
speaker3: the thing is...it really can't wait.
speaker2: my name's neil. maybe i can help you.

speaker1: oh yeah. got another one here. 
speaker1: nasty fella. a
speaker1: well, sir, i'm afraid it's not as simple as that. your average newspaper guy or hard copy lady or whatever, they can't buy this stuff.
speaker2: well then who can?
speaker1: ah, sir, you know, it's not for me to say.
speaker2: what do you mean? who can buy this kind of equipment.
speaker1: the thing is, senator, and i don't want to get in the middle of nothing, but--
speaker2: what are you saying?
speaker1: most of this stuff's only available to law enforcement.
speaker2: law enforcement?
speaker1: fbi, cia, nsa, local cops.
speaker2: are you sure about this?
speaker1: i yanked this off your rv. it's a global positioning tracker.
speaker2: oh my
speaker1: tracks your location to the inch and works directly with--you know...
speaker2: with what?
speaker1: with spy satellites. i don't like saying these things senator...
speaker2: neil, thank you for your help.
speaker1: anytime.
speaker2: this is sam albert. put me through to langley. marshal's office.

speaker1: albert's primed. we'll let him stew for a day and then drop the tape. 
speaker2: he came in four minutes ago.
speaker1: c'mon.

speaker1: feeling lucky? 
speaker2: not particularly, no.
speaker2: i'm stuck. help me out.
speaker3: one-lincoln-nine, suspects ta'd into a coal car at the fullbright rail-yards. requesting back-up, fire and ambulance. an unmarked car with red-flashers races up the rail-
speaker4: fbi. what do you got?
speaker3: two murder suspects. one's wounded, the other's maybe dead.
speaker4: thank you.
speaker4: check inside.
speaker5: him, he's dead in two minutes. find dean.
speaker4: fuck--
speaker6: i just came from my office at langley. senator albert called me there.

speaker1: i got the same call at the bureau. 
speaker2: about what?
speaker3: about what? do i
speaker3: does
speaker3: the do you have goin' on with sam albert?
speaker1: this guy's carrying the
speaker1: he's carrying the
speaker1: he found an nsa sat tracker on his motor home today.
speaker2: it's not ours.
speaker3: it was pulsing on your sat frequencies.
speaker1: i don't know what's going on, but if you people have tripped over your own again, you're not gonna get any help from us. it's ending at your doorstep.
speaker4: brill's dead.

speaker1: what about-- 
speaker2: we don't know.
speaker1: explain that.

speaker1: jones had to flee the scene before we could locate the second body. 
speaker2: what about the tape?
speaker1: we think it was on brill. if it was, it's destroyed now.
speaker2: and if it wasn't?
speaker3: peace be with you.

speaker1: the lord said: i leave you peace, my peace i leave you. let us now, in the spirit of these holidays, turn to our neighbors and offer them a sign of peace. 
speaker2: peace be with you...peace be with you.
speaker3: merry christmas. it's me.
speaker2: do i know you?
speaker3: i'm robert dean. within twelve hours, you're gonna be in jail. peace be with you.
speaker1: let us now offer up thanks to the lord our in the words our father gave us.
speaker4: our father, who art in heaven, hallow'd be thy name--
speaker5: robert, is it safe to be talking on the phone like this?

speaker1: are you sure you're safe? 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: they're saying you killed that policeman. 
speaker2: that's gonna end tonight.

speaker1: where are you? 
speaker2: i can't tell you that.

speaker1: i can tell you this: that anti- terrorism bill you were so worked up about? i don't think it's gonna pass. 
speaker2: got it!

speaker1: found him. kent island nailed the call five minutes ago. he's stationary. 
speaker2: do you have visual?
speaker1: not yet. he's near "m" and 34th. i've got an elsur unit on the scene now. a residential building. twelve units.
speaker2: what's your eta?
speaker1: three minutes. we're going in light. myself and two others. everyone else is held back in reserve.
speaker2: he walked right up to me in church. at the holiest time of the wear. he approached me in a sanctified place. kill him now.

speaker1: nine-one-one emergency. 
speaker2: my name's jack kreuger, i'm at 1102 grambling. i just saw three guys break into the condo next door. it looked to me like they had guns.

speaker1: we'll send a unit over there now. if it's safe, sir, we'd like you to stay by your phone. 
speaker2: yeah, i think i'll stay where i am.

speaker1: any available unit. armed 549 in progress. 
speaker1: three suspects now inside. 1102 grambling, apartment 302.
speaker2: 201 to first team. pull out. we got the cops.

speaker1: me! 
speaker2: what'd you do?
speaker1: it came off in my hand!

speaker1: get outa there, guys! 
speaker2: 
speaker3: it's over. we've been with our pants on.

speaker1: oh my what's going on?! 
speaker2: ma'am, is this your apartment?
speaker1: what happened?!
speaker3: would you step out in the hallway for a moment, ma'am.
speaker1: oh
speaker2: please. we'll be right with you.

speaker1: christa? 
speaker2: you got a second?
speaker3: who are you?
speaker2: my name's robert dean.

speaker1: i understand we have a problem. 
speaker2: senator--
speaker3: senator, there were some things i couldn't tell you over the phone.
speaker1: what kinds of things?
speaker2: mr. dean has a video tape from the hotel room in boston.
speaker1: i see.
speaker4: it's actually dh-1 digitech pinpoint scanning with a frequency modulator.
speaker1: i don't know what that means.
speaker4: me neither, but the upshot is i've got color live-action footage of you and ms hawkins and it doesn't look good.
speaker1: so...how much money do you want in exchange for not ruining my life?
speaker4: i don't want any money. and believe me, i have no interest in ruining your life. i'm not interested in this tape.
speaker1: you're not.
speaker2: then what do you want from the senator?
speaker4: i want him to look at a different tape. people have been killed.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: sir, we've just intercepted an fbi communication.
speaker1: well...what is it?
speaker2: well, sir, it seems there's a warrant out on-- the doorbell rings. reynolds is alarmed.
speaker3: who is that, dear?
speaker4: john reynolds?
speaker1: what the hell--
speaker4: you're under arrest. you have the right to remain silent. anything you say--
speaker3: honey...?
speaker5: privacy and the right to privacy is an

speaker1: these guys are always making speeches. 
speaker2: it's an important speech, eric.
speaker3: today we face a threat to that creed. certain individuals in our intelligence community believe they're entitled to examine lives in minute detail, and claim to do it in the name of the common good.
speaker1: if they're voting today, hasn't everyone pretty much made up their minds.
speaker2: actually, this man appears to have changed his mind dramatically.
speaker1: why?
speaker4: he saw the light, my son.
speaker1: dad!
speaker2: is it over?
speaker5: it's over.
speaker1: how long can you stay?
speaker5: i'm not goin' anywhere, eric. i live here.
speaker2: get ready for school, you're gonna be late.
speaker1: is it okay to use the phone now?
speaker5: it's okay to use the phone.
speaker1: alright!
speaker5: no "900" numbers.
speaker2: it's really over?
speaker5: albert's gonna get me my job back.
speaker2: i'm sorry about rachel.
speaker5: yeah. i wish you could've met...
speaker2: who?
speaker5: a friend of mine. i don't know his real name. he's dead now.
speaker2: you did good.
speaker6: i've lived through the dark ages of hoover's watch-list and mccarthy's witch hunts - men who used moral crusades, fired by fear, to lay waste to our freedoms.
speaker2: c'mon upstairs. i've got a christmas present from harrison's i want to show you.
speaker6: our intelligence communities presently monitor our phones, computers, financial transactions, medical histories...all this and more. some of you may say, "fine. i'm not a criminal and i have nothing to hide." well forbid we ever edge to tyranny. forbid george orwell's version of america becomes a reality. we are

