JONES: burritos...enchiladas... 
DEJESUS: oh, gag, man, how can you eat that stuff?...
BECK'S VOICE/ RADIO: okay, cut the chatter. you're not out of here, yet. who's the hook? seven?...you got a hook on container 22?
SIXPACK'S VOICE/ RADIO: the man's asking if you're hooked on 22, you
JONES' VOICE/ RADIO: watch your mouth, sixpack. hello, shack, seven, here. i ain't the hook, over.
WILLIE'S VOICE: six to shack. i'm the hook.

SIXPACK'S VOICE: hey, willie, you trip on a or something? we're all waiting on you, honey. 
WILLIE'S VOICE: six to shack...hook's on. ready to winch.

DEJESUS: ...beer after beer... 
JONES/ RADIO: hey, hazy, i'm not that bad, man.
DEJESUS: jonesy! i'm losing compression... i'm going to blow my suit, man!

BECK: give me a readout, dejesus. 
DEJESUS: ahhhh!
OUTSIDE: the other divers move quickly to dejesus.
BECK: dejesus! a readout!
JONES: he don't need a readout, man, he needs help!
BECK: stay calm!
BOWMAN: calm!? where's doc?

COBB: where's doc?! 
BECK: he's not at his station.
DEJESUS: oh, mother of forgive me of my--
BECK'S VOICE: get him into the shack.

BOWMAN: i'm telling you, it's the suits! 
JONES: the suits, it's the people monitoring them. it doc had been there like he's supposed to it never would've happened!
SIXPACK: and just what the would he have done to stop it, huh?
DEJESUS: i know all about implosion, man.
SIXPACK: yeah, i bet you do. i bet you were imploding in your pants. jonesy! doc!...help me! help me!

BECK: knock it off, sixpack! i know it's been a long month for every- one, but we can't let something like this tear us apart... 
BECK: 

JONES: the suits man...this place is going to kill us first. 
DEJESUS: there it is again... two more days. i tell myself 'you can make it two more days--'
BOWMAN: what's the weather like up top?
WILLIE: clear for pickup.
JONES: let's hope it holds.
COBB: then what? huh? then what? you folks think going up top's the answer to all your problems. well, it ain't.
BOWMAN: give us a break, cobb...
COBB: a break? you folks don't need a break, you need psychiatrists. 'know what you'd be doing if you were up there, right now?
SIXPACK: eating and drinking brew...
COBB: eating my ass. what about lines at the bank: what about getting stuck in traffic?
SIXPACK: wherever i can find it.
COBB: i'll tell you what you'd be doing! you'd be watching news on tv that's so bad it makes you nauseous. so you go out and get in your car to get some fresh air and after you've been driving for five minutes you realize the air's so dirty you don't dare breath it! that's what you've got to look forward to...

BECK: doc eat already? 
JONES: the good doctor hasn't showed yet.
BECK: how do you feel, dejesus?
DEJESUS: okay.
BECK: better let the doc take a look at you, after dinner.
SIXPACK: yeah, since he was busy earlier when you needed him.
BECK: cut it, sixpack.
SIXPACK: 'makes me feel better already...
BECK: i've been looking at the duty roster...at the shack hours outstanding...
JONES: uh, oh...i see where this is going...
BECK: ...all of you owe time and i thought tonight would be a good time to---
COBB: no way, mister beck!
SIXPACK: hear that becky, er, mr. beck?

BECK: i know all about the contract. the point is you can follow the contract to the letter and pull your shack duty tomorrow...or you can get it done tonight and call tomorrow a down day. it's up to you. 
DEJESUS: you giving us a day off?
COBB: what about our quota?
BECK: you're only twenty-five tons off quota. barring an unforeseen problem you should reach it easily on the last day. it's just a day off. you don't have to take it, i just thought it might help.
JONES: count me in.
BECK: cobb, jones, i want you to do something about that rattle in the air system... bowman and sixpack...living quarters...
SIXPACK: 
BECK: williams...get dejesus' suit on the "sick rack" and do a diagnostics. any other suit problems she should know about?
SIXPACK: my pocket. check my pocket, will ya, honey?
WILLIE: your pocket?
SIXPACK: the latch is screwed up. or the hinge.
WILLIE: right.

WILLIE: you did good... 
BECK: what?
WILLIE: today...with dejesus. that was smart thinking to get him inside...
BECK: there probably wasn't anything wrong with his suit...
WILLIE: still...you did the right thing.

DOC: i must have dozed off. 
BECK: are you planning on working tomorrow?
DOC: well, i'll be on the golf course in the morning. then, if i don't have any babies to deliver--
BECK: we almost had an accident today. dejesus' suit...
DOC: you got something to say to me, son?...
BECK: i...i think it's important to have the second officer on deck.
DOC: i'll keep it to nine holes in the morning.

SIXPACK: christ...what a pair... 
BOWMAN: what was that? what'd you say?
SIXPACK: i said, "what a pair" the boy wonder shack boss and his drunken doctor buddy make... why? what did ya think i said?

JONES: listen to it for christsake. 
COBB: ah, it's just old, like me. you don't see the doc opening me up every time i get a new creak in my joints...i say, as long as it's recycling the air let the next shift deal with it. but, 'long as we're here...

BECK: two hundred and fifty-two tons of magnesium and 15 tons of sodium. 
MARTIN: sounds like a good week, beck. in fact...i put your folder in front of the vice president of district operations last night... beck stops. martin notices his concern. martin you're good executive timber, beck. a lot of management trainees wash out when they have to go under for their first tour. but you've done well.
BECK: thank you, martin.
MARTIN: don't thank me, yet, but it is important to know where you're going and who your friends are... 'know what i mean?

JONES: so that's all you do?... 
COBB: shhhh...don't tell no one. job security.

WILLIE: made your million, yet? 
BOWMAN: not yet.
WILLIE: how's transocean doing?
BOWMAN: you got money in this tub?
WILLIE: i signed-up for the stock option.

DEJESUS: hey, man, you know that in switzerland--and this country's the size of east l.a., okay?--they speak 54 different dialects? 
COBB: who cares?
DEJESUS: i do, man. that's a beautiful place. when i get out of here i'm going there. find a nice little snow covered chalet, warm little woman, crackling fire--
DEJESUS: hey, cobb...man, why don't you take off your shirt and pants, man? you should do that wearing what you're going to wear at the beach.
COBB: this is what i wear at the beach, goddamnit.

BOWMAN: "major development in south indian ocean set for fall of 2010..." that sounds interesting, but they're too tied to their holdings. remember a year ago when they lost that tanker?... the bottom fell out of their stock and i lost a fortune. that's when i decided to diversify. 
WILLIE: you take your money, too seriously, bo.
BOWMAN: you're right i do. five years down here and i'll pull in more than 15 topside. i'm not down here for the fun, i'll tell you that.
SIXPACK'S VOICE: "fun?" somebody talking fun?
WILLIE: get out of here, sixpack.
JONES: hey, bo...when're you going to be off that thing? i want to find out tonight's nba scores and check the weather.
BOWMAN: the weather's good, i already checked, but i'll be off in a minute.
WILLIE: hey, jonesy, who's the best power forward in the nba...jameson?
JONES: jameson? who're you trying to con?

JONES: hey, hazy! we got a day off tomorrow, kemosabi! let's get shit-faced! 
DEJESUS: no, man, cobb is a chivas drinker, from way back. ain't that right cobbie?
COBB: you guys are crazy. what the you play that stupid game for?
DEJESUS: what game, cobb?...i'm on my way to nirvana...
COBB: you're on your way somewhere all right...the looney bin.
DEJESUS: i'm on the way to the looney bin? hey, man, i'm not the dude sun bathing in his clothes.

SIXPACK: oh, darlin'...come sit on my face... 
SIXPACK: that

SIXPACK: look what you did! 
WILLIE: sorry, darling...just thought a little humor would loosen us all up...you know?...
SIXPACK: you think you're so funny? wait till you taste this!
BECK'S VOICE: that's enough!
SIXPACK: look at my foot, sir! this put a sea monster in my bunk!
BECK: how do you know it was williams?
SIXPACK: huh? i...uh...uh...
BECK: all right, sixpack, you and williams are gonna pull water duty tomorrow--
SIXPACK AND WILLIE: what?! she...he...
BECK: at ease! you both have a half day...anymore and its a full one.

JONES: oooooh. not so loud. 
COBB: what music? there ain't no music.
DEJESUS: oooooh.
COBB: you know it's really crazy to pretend to be drunk, but it's insane to pretend to have a hangover.
BOWMAN: your "hangovers" made you miss the sixpack good morning show. "no boy is going to make me go out on a down day."
JONES: yeah? how'd the kid hold up?
COBB: pretty good. he sent them out videotaping outcrop.

BECK: charge set? 
WILLIE'S VOICE: charge set. backing off. c'mon rover let's get out of here.

WILLIE: roger... more light, sixpack... 
SIXPACK: boo!
WILLIE: you shit....
BECK'S VOICE: what's going on, four? what's happening?
WILLIE: we're fine, shack. his lights malfunctioned for a minute. how's this?

WILLIE: you screw around like that again and-- 
SIXPACK: what's wrong, did you miss me?
WILLIE: hardly.
SIXPACK: don't worry, darlin, i'm...

WILLIE: sixpack?! sixpack... 
BECK'S VOICE: willie? what's going on?
WILLIE: he's gone. i think he's fallen. i'm going down after him.

DEJESUS: that's it jonesy...sweat it out, man...got to get the poison out of our blood. 
BOWMAN: sixpack is lost.

COBB: weren't they tied? they're supposed to be tied. 
CONTROL ROOM: beck is at the console with doc in his chair.
JONES: how far away is she?
DOC: two hundred meters.
WILLIE'S VOICE: four to shack...nearing the bottom. look at this...
DOC: my look at the size of those tubers....
DEJESUS: nine, ten feet high...
BOWMAN: if he had his blinkers on--
JONES: it wouldn't make any difference in there...he could be two feet away and on fire and she'd still not see him!

BECK: why can't we pick up his signal? 
DEJESUS: maybe he got eaten?
BOWMAN: what would be enough to eat sixpack?

BECK: affirmative...widening picture. 
COBB: what the?...
DOC: russian.
WILLIE'S VOICE: i'm going inside.
BECK: what's your air reading?
WILLIE'S VOICE: twenty minutes...
BECK: twenty minutes!...who had tank duty?
BOWMAN: who else...sixpack.
JONES: the man is unbelievable...
BOWMAN: what about his suit? that's a million five the company's got to replace. they'll make somebody go get it.
BECK: willie, we're giving you five minutes...after that we're coming in.

WILLIE: sixpack?...answer me. 
WILLIE: the infirmary...
BECK'S VOICE: three minutes...

BECK'S VOICE: one minute. 
SIXPACK: i'm rich, honey. rich!

SIXPACK: it's all mine if i'm on report. otherwise you gotta take me off report before you look at any more... 
COBB: you're on your own, sixpack, you up everybody's day off...
BOWMAN: personal effects...
WILLIE: timex...
BOWMAN: yeah, i'd say you can retire with all this loot.
SIXPACK: shut up.
WILLIE: what is it?
JONES: "debbie does dallas"... hell, it's in russian. i can't read it...
DOC: may i see it?
WILLIE: vodka.
COBB: what they lock booze in the safe.
DEJESUS: probably confiscated. no booze on board, same as us.
DOC: stolichnaya.
COBB: you read russian?
DOC: russian, french, italian, spanish, greek, german, a little hindu, some serbo croat and a smattering of swahili...standard pre-med background...
COBB: 
DOC: ...and a russian grandmother...
BECK: i want all this stuff impounded in the supply safe.
DOC: you mind if i take a look at this?
BECK: be my guest.

DEJESUS: you got 'em! 
SIXPACK: what good's the kid's med records anyway!
DEJESUS: watch and learn, amigo...

BECK: what do you want me to say? 
DOC: these observers were doing something. a test...i think they sank that ship on purpose to cover up their mistakes.
BECK: what mistakes? look, i think it's no big deal but if you want to find out why this ship sank have maritime run a check.
DOC: i did. they have no record of the wreck. the marshal goloviev is now on a tour in the baltic sea.

BOWMAN'S VOICE: okay, try the social security number... 
DEJESUS: okay, give it to me...

BOWMAN: two...twelve...ninety-six. 
SIXPACK: you guys are so full of who's going to use their birthday...

SIXPACK: like i said, that bottle's mine! 
CONTROL ROOM - SAME: on beck at the door and doc.
DOC: i want your permission to check that vodka.
BECK: this is a mining shack, not a lab, doc. if there's something strange with the vodka it's safe till we get back.

BECK: something wrong, cobb? 
COBB: uh..excuse me sir, it's the air recirculating system, sir...
BECK: what's wrong with it?
COBB: ...i'd really have to show it to you.

BOWMAN: cute, dejesus...specimen cups? 
JONES: aw, loosen up, bowman... hey, willie, i got one served up for you.
WILLIE: no, thanks. i've got my blood tests in three days.
DEJESUS: that's all you do is exercise.
WILLIE: after my astronaut training physical,
COBB: hey what happens it he goes back and finds the bottle missing?
DEJESUS: he won't...
SIXPACK: it's water!
JONES: beck switched it!
DEJESUS: can you beat that? the sonof- abitch doesn't trust us!
SIXPACK: that little turd. if i ever get the chance i'll fix his ass.

BECK: that was a loud one wasn't it? 
WILLIE: after a month of it you'd think i'd be used to it.
BECK: how's astronaut training?
WILLIE: why? you going to give me hard time like the others?
BECK: no. i'm just being friendly.
WILLIE: good...it's going good.
BECK: whatever made you want to do a tour down here?
WILLIE: i need electrical field experience on my resume. everything helps... why are you here?
BECK: everybody in corporate training serves a tour on the line. sup- posed to hone leadership skills or something.
WILLIE: has it helped?
WILLIE: i guess there's not a lot of adventure in the control room.
BECK: you think i should hang around more with the crew?
WILLIE: well, i always heard you don't "learn" leadership, you earn it. how did you know they'd get into the vodka?
BECK: i guess i figured if i was in their shoes that's what i would've done.
WILLIE: maybe you're more one of us than you think...sir.

DOC: let's see your tongue. 
BECK: what's wrong?
DOC: pretty good imitation of a hangover and i ought to know.
SIXPACK: well, it ain't! it feels a thousand times worse.
DOC: where?
SIXPACK: i...i dunno. i just feel...
DOC: take off your shirt.
SIXPACK: doc...i didn't know i had them.

MARTIN: ...as long as you know it's not in your contract. 
BECK: i know that.
MARTIN: well, suit yourself, then...its your decision... ha ha...a little joke...suit yourself...
BECK: how's the weather for pickup tomorrow?
MARTIN: beautiful.
THE SWAMP - MORNING: the crew members climb into their suits.
COBB: bad as he is there's no way we can make our quota with- out his sad self out there.
DEJESUS: he's tanking on us...
WILLIE: no...he's really sick. i heard him last night. the company will take that into consideration...
JONES: honey, the company don't give a flying about "whys," they just look at the numbers and the contract says if we miss our quota they only got to pay us half-pay for the entire month.
DEJESUS: 'cocksucker's tanking on us...
BECK: no, he's really sick...he won't be going out today.
COBB: there goes our quota...
BOWMAN: thirty days, right down the toilet...
COBB: excuse me, sir...
BECK: is this a contract violation, mr. cobb?
COBB: no sir...i just wanted to know if you needed a hand?
BECK: thanks...

DEJESUS: okay, number 23's full. 
BECK: let's get it out of here and bring in a new one.
JONES: yes sir...
BOWMAN: hook's on 24...
BECK: let's have her...

DEJESUS: good work out there, mr. becky. 
JONES: thank you, sir.

BECK: dead? this morning you said he had some skin disorder. 
DOC: he did.
BECK: well, how the does a skin rash kill you in eight hours?!
DOC: here. put this on. you examine him.
BECK: i'm not a doctor.
DOC: for this...you don't need to be.

BECK: the mask is because you think it might be...catching? 
DOC: i don't know. i've been back and forth with narragansett naval all day, consulting with the best people in maritime medicine, the best people in viruses...
BECK: and?
DOC: and they didn't believe the symptoms i described...
BECK: why sixpack?
DOC: it could be a million things, something in the air, food.... but he went on that ship and so did williams... i want to examine the crew.
BECK: yeah...right...
DOC: i've reported the death to the company.

JONES: "routine," my ass! ain't nothin' "routine" about no physical check- up 10,000 feet down...especially when we're getting picked up the next day! 
COBB: he didn't say it was a "routine check-up," he said it was a "routine
DEJESUS: it's this air system....
COBB: ain't the food or the air system, he's just sick... everybody gets sick every now and then. it's all part of being human!
BOWMAN: well, i must be human because i'm sure as sick.

COBB'S VOICE: i guess i'm kinda...outta shape... this skin condition...what is it? 
DOC'S VOICE: it's difficult to describe.
COBB: christ, it'd be a of a thing if i went back to the roof with some kind of herpes thing. my wife wouldn't understand that at all...
DOC: you seem all right.
COBS: she wouldn't understand. she'd think i was down here my head off. dark skin/ pores black skin, seen very close, the pores appearing like craters.
JONES: this whole thing's unnecessary, doc. only "skin problem" i got is white people... how come you're wearing those gloves?
WILLIE'S VOICE: this disease...do you know what causes it?
DOC: not yet. you got any ideas?
WILLIE: you don't think it was from going on that ship do you?
DOC: that's a possibility. but if it was that simple why haven't the symptoms begun on you?
WILLIE: you mean i'm okay?
DOC: you're fine.

DEJESUS' VOICE: what do you mean, "a skin problem"... your skin changes? 
DOC: it blackens...becomes scaly.
DEJESUS: you mean like a fish?
DOC: yes...like a fish...
DEJESUS: i was just joking, doc.

MARTIN: well, according to maritime law, you, as commander of the shack have the authority to dispose of the body. however, the company doesn't want you to do that. 
BECK: what you don't understand is that my crew is in jeopardy.
MARTIN: but you don't have any proof at this point to assume that this disease is contagious, do you?
BECK: i'm not anxious to find out, either.
MARTIN: beck, trust me. if the company felt that you or your crew were in any danger we would authorize an immediate emergency pickup.
BECK: do it.
MARTIN: unfortunately. we can't. he picks up a sheet of computer paper. martin there is a typhoon about 600 miles off the coast of baja. it's not coming your way but the company doesn't want to lose you folks or an emergency ship should it veer your way.
BECK: what're you saying? that we're not even going to be picked up tomorrow?
MARTIN: it shouldn't be a long delay.
BECK: but it's a delay! how long?
MARTIN: twelve hours, no big deal. we should know something first thing in the morning. don't worry.

JONES: hey, sixpack...hey, my man... how you feeling? 
JONES: hey, man, we made quota to- day. no thanks to you, you dog, but we made it...beck helped us...we just dropped bowman off. i hope what you've got ain't catching...

WILLIE: who were you talking to? 
JONES: sixpack...
WILLIE: how is he?
JONES: sleeping. no sign of doc, though. i'll check the control room. you look in the shower room...

BOWMAN: oh, god...what's going on? 
SICK ROOM: bowman approaches the body of sixpack.
BOWMAN: sixpack...what's going on?

DOC: you have to call them back. explain that this is an emergency. 
JONES: excuse me, sir...bowman's sick. she's downstairs in the infirmary.
DOC: the infirmary?...
JONES: yes sir, ain't that where we usually go when we're sick?
DOC: we're simply concerned about her...proximity to...
BECK: sixpack's dead.
JONES: bullshit...i was just talking to him. i saw him move.
BECK: what?...

DOC: bowman? 
DOC: bowman. it's doc. i'm here to help you.

BECK: i can't tell you much about it, except that none of you show any symptoms. 
DEJESUS: and it killed bo?
BECK: no...she killed herself.
JONES: we're getting out of here just in time.
BECK: there's now a problem with the weather for pickup. there's a typhoon in our sector... ...we're going to be delayed twelve hours...
DEJESUS: typhoon?!
JONES: twelve hours!
COBB: at least we get time and a half. that's in the contract.
JONES: double pay, man! i want out of here!
BECK: jones... stay here.

DEJESUS: c'mon, cobb...you're slacking... 
COBB: i ain't, goddamnit...it's jones!..
BECK: shut up, all of you.
COBB: mr. beck, the contract states that no body can be disposed of without authorization of---
JONES: the contract, man!
DEJESUS: hey!...i feel something.
COBB: i feel it, too...someone's trying to get out.
JONES: cobb, what're you doing!
COBS: but he ain't dead! he ain't dead.
BECK: cobb! stop!
COBB: it bit me! it bit me!
JONES: push hazy!
JONES: oh, christ! i ain't never gonna sleep again!
BECK: no!
COBB: it bit me!
DEJESUS: it's sixpack!
COBB: i'm going to kill it!
BECK: close the lock! now!

DEJESUS: serves his right to get it. brings that onboard. i hope his rots in the sea and is upon by the fish. 
JONES: 'fucker could have gotten us all killed.
COBB: he knew better than that.
WILLIE: you guys sure weren't so holy when you were shooting that vodka...it could have been you.

DOC: hold it! rewind it. beck rewinds it. 
DOC: stop it.
DOC: back it up slowly.
DOC: there.

DEJESUS: you know that innsbruck has 64 square miles of ski slopes, man? think about that. sixty-four square miles. 
JONES: how'd you do that?
DEJESUS: what? that?...i've done this one before. you hungry? i'm hungry.
JONES: hungry? after what we just went through i may never eat again.

BECK: they found this? 
DOC: no. i think they isolated him in genetic engineering.
BECK: was there such a thing?
DOC: danakil man?...one of our ancestors. named for the danakil alps in ethiopia.
BECK: not exactly a big ocean country.
DOC: it was when it counted a couple of million years ago when the seas came in and drove us into the water. most sapiens didn't make it...danakil man...

CONTROL ROOM: on doc. 
DOC: some say that's why we're basically hairless, for less water resistance, faster swimming speeds...
BECK: but what about those scales... or that leech-like thing that bit cobb?
DOC: why stop with just one aspect of marine life? why not incorporate the best genetic components the ocean has to offer?...
BECK: well, if they were perfecting an aquaman, then why's there a dead one onboard that russian ship? why isn't he out swimming around?
DOC: he obviously lacked something in his environment.

JONES' VOICE: turned black yet? 
COBS: that ain't funny.
JONES: relax, cobb. if it was going to turn, it would have done its trick by now.
COBB: that's easy for you to say. you ain't the one that got bit.
JONES: don't tell me you're getting soft on us, cobbie? you're the fellow who always said--
COBB: nothing's changed, goddamnit!

JONES: man, everybody is jumpy... what are you doing? 
DEJESUS: getting some food.
JONES: under there?
DEJESUS: look. water.
JONES: probably the plumbing. you gonna make me finish that puzzle by myself, or what?
DEJESUS: no, i'll be right there.
DEJESUS: mustard. need mustard...
DEJESUS: sixpack...

JONES: hey, hazy...what're you doing now...cooking? there is no answer and jones looks up. jones hazy?... 
DEJESUS: help me, jonesy. oh, help me! it's getting inside me, i can feel it!
JONES: hazy, please...i'm going to get you some help, man...just don't touch me...
COBB: what's going on?
JONES: it's hazy...it's got him! stay here and don't let him out. i'm going to get the doc.
DEJESUS: help me! help me!

JONES: it's got hazy! 
BECK: what has?
JONES: one of those chunks of sixpack! like a big leech, with those teeth!...
DOC: we've got to get him to the infirmary.
JONES: what are you going to do to him?
DOC: i'm going to try to remove it.
JONES: i've got cobbie downstairs watching the door.

JONES: cobb? hazy? oh, shit...he's gone... 
JONES: you let him get away!
COBB: i ain't doing nothing for that thing without something to defend myself.
JONES: that
COBB: oh, she's out there...
BECK: jones...come with me. cobb, you and doc check the rooms.

JONES: willie... 
WILLIE: yeah?
WILLIE: what on earth's the matter with you?
JONES: i ought to smack your face!
WILLIE: what's wrong?
JONES: dejesus...it's got him.

BECK: i thought they were your friends? 
JONES: were, doss

JONES: jones to doc. doc?...cobb? he looks back to beck, concerned. jones think it got 'em? 
BECK: no, it's not going through. the intercom's busted. i thought dejesus fixed that?
JONES: he did.

COBB: what happened? 
DOC: it...almost got you.
COBB: what was it?

COBS: i saw it! it's big! 
BECK: big?
JONES: bigger than dejesus? how?
DOC: it's had a meal.
WILLIE: it needs blood?
JONES: great...you telling me we got a dracula in here with us?
DOC: it would explain the suction- like appendages.
JONES: like a leech.
BECK: that's why there's a dead one on the ship. it ran out of blood.
JONES: what dead one on the ship? he looks from doc to beck. jones someone want to let the rank and file in on your little secret?
DOC: the monster appears to be a genetic aberration...
JONES: no lie...
DOC: ...it has many traits of deep sea marine life...regeneration, scales, gills, even a period of dormancy... but the fact that it remembered where the plasma was stored, or where the communication wiring was, may imply that it has some other quality...
COBB: what?...what?
BECK: that it acquires intelligence from its victims?
DOC: intelligence may not be the right word...
JONES: semantics, doc! you saying its like part dejesus, part sixpack, part bowman?!
DOC: i don't know. i'm guessing.
COBB: i say we should go get in the escape bubbles and get the out of here!
JONES: and hit the surface in the middle of a typhoon?...no, thank you. i'll take my chance down here.
WILLIE: what can we do?
BECK: our only chance is to lure it to the swamp and flush it like we did the other.
COBB: and how're we going to do that?

DOC: be careful with it. 
BECK: don't worry, i don't want to give up any more.

DOC: still bothering you? 
COBB: itches like hell.
DOC: take it off and let me have a look.
DOC: looks good to me. i'll re-bandage it, though. he looks at willie. doc willie, would you clean it for me. i'm going to the infirmary for supplies.
WILLIE: you can't go out there alone.
DOC: i'm the doctor. i have to do what's best for this crew. i need my bag.

DOC: there, good as new. just keep your paws off of it. do you have the new bandage ready? 
WILLIE: doc?...doc!
DOC: no!

BECK: i hear something. don't fire until we're both in the swamp. jones moves a little farther back. beck don't let him see you. 
JONES: don't worry...

WILLIE: oh 
BECK: run willie! run!

BECK: where's cobb and doc? 
WILLIE: cobb's cut...it was in him!
JONES: oh man, that's just great...
BECK: c'mon.

BECK: lock the door. 
BECK: he sent them all.
WILLIE: the escape bubbles? she and jones stop in front of doc's console.
JONES: look at this.
WILLIE: what is it?
JONES: the good doctor signed our death warrant.

WILLIE: well, at least we're safe inside here. 
JONES: for how long?

MARTIN: thank goodness, you're still alive! 
JONES: hey, man, you better get your out here right now and get us. you hear me,
WILLIE: when
JONES: just answer the question, man!
MARTIN: hopefully in the next 48 hours.
BECK: forty-eight hours!
MARTIN: i realize you must have gone through hell--
JONES: gone? man, we're still here!
MARTIN: i can't change the weather. try to get some rest. i'll keep you posted.
BECK: he's right. why don't you get some rest. i'll stand the first watch.

BECK: martin, you asshole... 
WILLIE: they know, don't they?
BECK: yeah...i think they're just deciding what to do with us.
WILLIE: maybe they already have.
BECK: what are you doing?
WILLIE: seeing how my stock's doing...
WILLIE: where?....
BECK: i can't believe they'd just leave us.
JONES: welcome to the union, boss. we're all expendable.
WILLIE: what is it?
JONES: the air's stopped.
BECK: we're on backup air.
WILLIE: how much time does that give us?
BECK: less than an hour. it's ruptured an air duct.
WILLIE: can't we fix it?
JONES: there're twenty miles of pipe in the bilge, they could have tapped-in anywhere.

JONES: cobb...job security... 
BECK: they're drawing us out.
WILLIE: you can't go out there, that's what they want.
BECK: we don't have much choice... without air, the internal pressure will fall and--
JONES: crunch...implosion.
WILLIE: you don't think i'm sitting in here, do you?

WILLIE: the shack... 
JONES: she's wondering what's happening. we're losing air faster than i thought.
BECK: which way?

BECK: i'll go first. 
WILLIE: don't spend all day down there.
JONES: don't worry, i ain't.

JONES:  
BECK: can you fix it?
JONES: no way...
BECK: think! can we stop it?! block it up?! shut down the line somewhere?! think!
JONES: i am thinking, man! you think i want to die! i am thinking! i--
JONES: i hit it. but i can't see it! can you see it?!
BECK: no.
JONES: the swamp. there's an over- ride switch in the swamp.
JONES: ahhh!
BECK: hurry...get out!
WILLIE'S VOICE: hey, you?

BECK: c'mon, the swamp! 
JONES: beck!
BECK: go on!
JONES: no!
BECK: that's an order!
JONES: your orders!

JONES: where the hell've you been? 
BECK: i got hung up! try this!

BECK: the suits! get in them! 
JONES: the suits! are you crazy! how're we going to get to the surface?

BECK: like this. 
JONES: your suit, becky!
BECK: just get in yours!

WILLIE: look out! 
JONES/RADIO: i'm in.
BECK: go!
WILLIE/RADIO: no!
THE CREATURE APPROACHES BECK: beck looks at the others one last time.
BECK: go, now! that's an order!
DEJESUS: kill me...kill me!
BECK: no!

BECK: wait till you reach thirty- five before you blow your suit... 
WILLIE'S VOICE: roger.
WILLIE: ejecting.

WILLIE: we made it! 
BECK: where's jones?
WILLIE: is he okay?
JONES: what happened to that typhoon?

WILLIE: are you sure you saw something? 
JONES: how many times i got to tell you. i saw a ship.
WILLIE: well, why haven't they answered our flares?
BECK: we'll fire one more, that leaves us one last one.
WILLIE: are you okay, jonesy?
JONES: tip top, willie...tip top.
WILLIE: who's the best power forward in the nba...jameson?
JONES: jameson? who are you trying to con...?
BECK: i'll be look!...a flare!
WILLIE: it saw us!
JONES: answer them and quit kicking me!
WILLIE: i'm not touching you!
WILLIE: no...no, no, no.

CAPTAIN: i thought you said you'd combed this area? 
MARTIN: we did....many times.
CAPTAIN: initiate rescue.

WILLIE: it hit me! where are they?! 
BECK: i can't see them!
JONES: all right! i've had enough of this you want meat, come on, eat me, sucker, try some dark meat!

BECK: jonesy...give me your hand! 
BECK: c'mon, jones!

BECK: jonesy, no! 
JONES: get out of here, becky!

WINCH OPERATOR: is he in the harness! 
BECK: c'mon, open up!

CAPTAIN: mr. beck, i understand you passed your physical with flying colors. and ms. williams? 
BECK: i don't know yet, she's still in there.
CAPTAIN: well, you'll be glad to know you have a friend onboard.
MARTIN: beck! i told them you'd make it. no one back at transocean believed me, but i never gave up on you once. so, how are you feeling?
BECK: better...a lot better.
WILLIE: i'm fine!

CAPTAIN: i thought we might have some wonderful seafood. but, if there's something else you'd rather have... 
WILLIE: how about a burger and fries?

