JENNA: hello? 
NICK: hey, jenna, it's nick.
JENNA: it's five-thirty in the morning, nick.
NICK: yeah, sorry. this is like the only time i have to make any personal calls. i just wanted to see if you felt like going out again because i had a great time with you on our last date.
JENNA: our last date was two weeks ago.
NICK: i know and that's my bad. i've been swamped at work --
JENNA: yeah, i remember. work was all you talked about when we went out.
NICK: right. well, i'm up for a promotion which will give me a lot more free time --

HARKEN: nick. 
NICK: yes?
HARKEN: see you in my office?

HARKEN: here's my concern, nick. you're a punctual guy. you understand the importance of getting to work on time. so that leaves me to wonder if there isn't something wrong with the internal clock in our security system. what do you think? 
NICK: i don't know, mr. harken. i might have been a minute late.
HARKEN: two minutes according to this. so either you're a liar -- which i know you're not -- or our system is off by a full minute. and if that's the case, i have no choice but to dismiss thomas, our longtime security coordinator.
NICK: okay, i might have been two minutes late.
HARKEN: so you did lie.
NICK: no, i -- harken picks up the phone.
NICK: who are you calling?
HARKEN: thomas. i'm letting him go.

NICK: wait! okay, i guess i lied. but i didn't mean to -- 
HARKEN: trust is everything in this office, my friend. i know you've been working your tail off for that promotion, but if i can't trust you, how can i make you senior vp of sales?
NICK: i understand. you can trust me.
HARKEN: now you sound like my wife.

HARKEN: `trust me, honey.' `trust me.' meanwhile, she's making love to every guy in the neighborhood. 
NICK: oh, i'm sure she's... loyal to

HARKEN: how could you possibly know that? 
NICK: i don't.
HARKEN: are you making love to my wife, nick?
NICK: what?! no!

HARKEN: i'm just kidding around. she's out of your league. no offense. 
NICK: none taken.
HARKEN: hmm.
HARKEN: would you like one?
NICK: it's 8:15.
HARKEN: you think there's something wrong with a man enjoying a drink in the morning?
NICK: no, no. it's fine. i'd love a drink.
NICK: thank you.
HARKEN: my pleasure.
NICK: aren't you having one?
HARKEN: it's 8:15, nick. i'm not an alcoholic.
NICK: oh. well, i only took it because i thought you were having one.
HARKEN: you took a drink because you thought i was going to have one?

HARKEN: that doesn't exactly sound like something a senior vp would do. 
NICK: well, i --
HARKEN: what if you thought i was going to dip my in honey and shaved coconut? would you do that too?
NICK: of course not.
HARKEN: of course not. anyway, we've moved up the date of the agm so you're gonna need to complete your due diligence by monday. you'll probably need to be here all weekend.
NICK: okay.
HARKEN: hey, you want a promotion, you've gotta earn it. life's a marathon and you can't win a marathon without putting a few band-aids on your nipples.
NICK: got it.
HARKEN: nick.
HARKEN: that's 18-year-old scotch. i can't really pour it back into the bottle.

STACY: boy, i have to get used to driving with this heavy ring on. i keep swerving to the left. 
DALE: aww. you really like it?
STACY: i love it. i feel like a queen.

DALE: well, you're my queen. i love you, stacy. 
STACY: have a great day at work.

JULIA: all right, mr. anderton, i'm going to give you the nitrous now and your root canal will be over before you know it. 
JULIA: dale? please.
JULIA: loudly, over the
DRILL): how are you today, dale?
DALE: i'm fine. thanks.
JULIA: you get a haircut?
DALE: uh-huh.
JULIA: looks good.
DALE: thank you.
JULIA: you ever watch that show, `gossip girl'?
DALE: uh, no.
JULIA: i watched it last night. i'll tell you, lot of cuties on that program.
JULIA: number 7 scraper, please.

JULIA: thank you. i fingered myself so hard to penn badgely, i broke a nail. 
JULIA: i'd let that kid put it in my ass. bet he's packing a plus-size sausage under those true religions.
DALE): probe.
DALE: what?
JULIA: i need the probe.
DALE: oh, right.
JULIA: bet you're no shrimp in the department either, huh, dale?
DALE: julia, please.
JULIA: oh, come on. you know i like to fool around.
JULIA: mr. anderton! bad!
JULIA: okay, enough fun. let's get back to work. water, please.

DALE: hey! 
JULIA: sorry, i'm a squirter. i think i can just make out our friend. looks like someone is circumcised!
DALE: all right, julia, listen. you can't keep doing this.
JULIA: i know, i know, you have a

DALE: she's not my girlfriend anymore. stacy and i got engaged last night. 
JULIA: what?
DALE: we're engaged.
JULIA: you're actually going to marry that little dummy?
DALE: hey!
JULIA: i thought you said she was just a hole for your
DALE: that's a horrible thing to say. i never said that!

UPS GIRL: excuse me? can you sign for this, please? 
KURT: sure.
UPS GIRL: i'm sorry?
KURT: this is one of those hidden camera shows, isn't it?
UPS GIRL: what do you mean?
KURT: come on. you're way too good- looking to be a ups girl. what are you, a model? an actress? what's gonna happen when i open this box? is something going to jump out at me?

UPS GIRL: nothing's gonna happen. i'm just a ups girl. 
KURT: shut up.
UPS GIRL: you shut up. it's true.
KURT: well, then, i need to take you out to dinner.
UPS GIRL: why?
KURT: because i want to be able to tell my friends that i took out the hottest ups girl in america. come on, what do you say?
KURT: awesome. i'm kurt.
UPS GIRL: myrna.
KURT: pretty name. how's tuesday?
UPS GIRL: okay.
KURT: see you then, myrna.
JACK: busy week?

KURT: hey, jack. yeah, just doing my part for the women of america. 
JACK: you're what we used to call a rapscallion.
KURT: that sounds a lot more innocent than `sex addict.'
JACK: walk with me, kurt.
JACK: i wanted to talk to you about --
KURT: last quarter's profits? i ran the numbers. we're down by 11 percent year-to-year.
JACK: it's this recession. what about cost-cutting measures?
KURT: well, i know you don't want to cut

JACK: no way. these people have worked their off for me. there's no reason they should suffer. 
KURT: there's also the issue of our hazardous waste disposal. we're paying a lot right now and the bolivians have come back with a very good offer.
JACK: you know why it's good? because they'll dump our chemicals in rivers, pollute water supplies and hurt people. i've spent my life building this company.

JACK: would you want the pellit name to be associated with something like that? 
KURT: no, i wouldn't.
JACK: everything okay, margie?
MARGIE: oh hi, mr. pellit. kurt. i've just been waiting to get in there for a while now...
JACK: who's in there?
MARGIE: it's... your son.
JACK: of course it is.
PELLIT: what the a guy can't get any privacy in this place!
JACK: it's all yours, margie.
JACK: you know, bobby, you seem to be spending more time in that bathroom than at your desk these days.

PELLIT: well, then, you're stupid, dad. because that's clearly not true. 
JACK: all i ask is that you do your part around here, son.
PELLIT: i do my part. i do other people's parts. but you just like to ride my because i'm your son. i don't see you screaming at --
PELLIT: -- dickskin here.
JACK: that's because kurt does his work and does it well. you could take a lesson from him.
PELLIT: the only thing i'd take a lesson from him on is being gay. and i wouldn't take that lesson because i don't want to be gay.
JACK: come on, kurt.
PELLIT: yeah, that's what i thought.
JACK: tell me something, kurt. are you happy here?
KURT: you kidding? it's the best job in the world.

KURT: he died instantly. they say his heart burst in his chest like a water balloon. 
DALE: wow. sorry, man. he was like a dad to you.
KURT: i loved him. and i loved working for him. and now his son is gonna be in charge. you know how many times i've caught him doing blow at work?
NICK: that you were the only one of us who didn't totally hate his job.
NICK: did i tell you harken tricked me into having a drink at eight o'clock this morning? the guy's the devil.

DALE: i thought he was giving you a promotion. 
NICK: he is. and he's got to do it before the general meeting next week.
DALE: well, at least your boss doesn't sexually harass you.
KURT: this again?
DALE: i'm telling you, she's out of control. it's a full-on hostile work environment.
KURT: she's a woman who wants to have with you. how bad can it be?
DALE: today she sprayed my crotch with water so she could see the outline of my wiener.
KURT: why don't you just her?
DALE: i'm engaged!
KURT: oh yeah. congratulations, by the way.
DALE: thank you.
NICK: there's gotta be other dental hygienist jobs out there.
DALE: i can't apply for another job, remember?
KURT: oh, right. because you'd have to tell them you're a child molester.

NICK: he's not a child molester. he just took his out in a playground. 
DALE: it was nighttime and i was peeing! and it's that i got put on the registered offender list for that!
KURT: it worked out. julia probably hired you because she's a sexual deviant herself.
DALE: why would they put a playground next to a bar anyway? that's entrapment.

NICK: i thought you were all broken up about your boss dying. 
KURT: this is how i grieve, okay?
DALE: man. he must be grieving all the time.

CO-WORKER: yeah. do you know what this is about? 
NICK: it just said `staff meeting' on the memo.
NICK: funny how he gets all over me if i'm a minute late, but he makes us wait fifteen.
HARKEN: you were two minutes late, nick.
HARKEN: and i didn't know i had to punch a clock with you.
NICK: you don't. of course you don't.
HARKEN: i'm going to attribute this to your drinking problem.
NICK: i don't have a --
HARKEN: with a smile to the
OTHERS): let's get started. shall we?

28 SAME SCENE  28: harken is fine. nick is as we left him. 
HARKEN: okay, have we figured out our best sales distribution plan for the new model year handsets?

HARKEN: yes? 
NICK: i simulated a number of sales cycles, factoring in likely end- users, point-of-sale limitations and specific demographic variables.
HARKEN: and?
NICK: and in my opinion, an open plan selling process in our top 30 markets along with targeted upgrade offers to existing customers promises the greatest yield.
HARKEN: thank you, nick. did everyone see how he did that? yes, he may be a pathological liar and have a crippling drinking problem, but when the chips are down, nick has what it takes.
HARKEN: which brings us to our next order of business. i've decided who i want as our new senior vp of sales. he's sitting right here among you.
HARKEN: it's me.
NICK: what?

HARKEN: i've decided to absorb the responsibilities of the senior vp position into my own. i realized if you want something done right, you do it yourself. so, i'm going to be knocking down the wall between my office and what would've been the senior vp's to create a single, enormous office. however, as a cost-cutting measure, i will only be taking 85% of the additional salary i'm entitled to. it's called self- sacrifice, people. learn from this. 
NICK: mr. harken, can i speak to you?
HARKEN: what is it?
NICK: you've been hinting for months that i was in line for that promotion.
HARKEN: and look how hard you've worked.
NICK: so you've just been lying to me?
HARKEN: not lying. motivating. we're all on the same team here, nick. we're all trying to find lorenzo's oil before it's too late for little lorenzo. besides, i'm the one who's taking on a lot more work.

NICK: barely keeping it 
TOGETHER): last month you kept me working so late i didn't get to say goodbye to gam gam!
HARKEN: what?
NICK: my grandmother. i told you i needed to see her but you said i'd be fired if i left early. she died before i could get to the hospital.
NICK: she taught me how to swim --
HARKEN: oh, my i had no idea... that you called your grandmother gam gam.
HARKEN: i don't mean to laugh, but that's adorable.
LOOK): look, nick, i'm sorry you didn't get to say bye-bye to gam gam. i make you work late because you're an invaluable part of this operation. and i need you in your current position.
NICK: i've been in that position for eight years now. why would i stay here after being treated like this?!
HARKEN: because i will see to it that no one else in our industry will hire you.
NICK: what?
HARKEN: anyone who interviews you will want my letter of recommendation. and i'm prepared to tell them that you are a dishonest, insubordinate drunk.

NICK: but that's not true! you can't do this! 
HARKEN: let me make this clear, you weak, little i own you. you're my don't make the mistake of thinking you have free will. because i can crush you any time i like.
FRIENDLY AGAIN): settle in, friend. you're here for the long haul.

PELLIT: yo, dickwall! what the 
KURT: what?
PELLIT: you're three hours late. what's the deal?
KURT: i was at your father's funeral.
PELLIT: maybe that excuse would've flown when my dad was here, but i'm in charge now.
KURT: that excuse wouldn't have made any sense when your dad was here.
PELLIT: in my office. now.

PELLIT: sit. 
PELLIT: i've been looking over the books. you're the accountant. tell me why this company is in the crapper.
KURT: it's not in the crapper. it's a recession. but we're still profitable.
PELLIT: look, i know you and my dad were pals. frankly, i always thought it was weird and gay and i never understood why my dad thought you were so great. but it doesn't matter now because he's in the ground and i'm your boss. and there's gonna be some changes around here. first of all...
BALANCE SHEET): what is this `envirotech waste management' that we're paying so much for?
KURT: your father made the decision to pay a little more to dispose of our chemical waste responsibly.
PELLIT: yeah, that. we've got an offer from bolivia to dump the stuff for a third the cost.
KURT: but that would endanger thousands of local residents.

PELLIT: so some jungle tribesmen get cancer. boo friggin' hoo. 
KURT: they're not tribesmen. it's a

32 SAME SCENE  32: kurt sits across from an unharmed pellit. 
PELLIT: oh, and we also need to trim the fat around here.
KURT: what do you mean?
PELLIT: i want you to fire the fat people. they're slow and lazy and they make me sad to look at. start with large marge.
KURT: margie's not fat. she's pregnant.
PELLIT: fine. then fire professor xavier over there.

KURT: hank? 
PELLIT: he creeps me out. rolling around in that weird little chair of his.
KURT: i'm not firing anyone! it's like you don't care about this company at all.
PELLIT: no you think when i was a kid i dreamed of running a chemical company? no. i dreamed of retiring. of being fed tropical fruit on a beach by a model while she blows me. and as soon as i squeeze all the profit out of this place, that's exactly what i'm gonna do. so here's the deal. you either fire the fatty or the cripple, or i fire both of them.

PELLIT: everyone, can i have your attention please? i've just learned that kurt has fired our dear friend hank here. i want you to know that i am as surprised and angry about this as you are. 
KURT: what are you -- ?!
PELLIT: this is entirely an accounting department decision. my hands are tied. you are one heartless bastard, gamble.

33 CONTINUED: 33: pellit heads off. hank glares at kurt. 
KURT: look, hank, this was not my --
HANK: you, kurt.

JULIA: come in. 
DALE: you wanted to see --
DALE: oh,
JULIA: have a seat, dale.
DALE: do i have to?
JULIA: please.
DALE: look, julia, this is ridiculous --
JULIA: i know what you're going to say and that's exactly what i want to talk to you about.

JULIA: yes, i like to joke around at work. and sometimes i might cross the line a bit. but the last thing i want to do is make you uncomfortable. that's unprofessional and i pride myself on being a professional. 
JULIA: so from now on, i want you to tell me when and if i cross the line.
DALE: now. right now.
JULIA: what?
DALE: you're naked, julia!
JULIA: i'm not naked. you can't even see my pussy.
DALE: okay, right there! just saying `pussy' to me. that's over the line.
JULIA: that's over the line? you're starting to sound like a little faggot, dale.
DALE: again! naked, `pussy,' `faggot.' all over the line. and probably

JULIA: okay, let's not start talking about illegal, mr. pees-on-young- boys. 
DALE: it was an empty playground! in the middle of the night!
JULIA: even worse. that little boy must have been terrified.

JULIA: let's cut to the chase. you're engaged now. and i respect the institution of marriage too much to violate it. that's why you need to me well before the wedding. because the closer it gets, the less ladylike i'm going to feel about this whole thing. 
DALE: i'm not going to sleep with you, julia.
JULIA: we'll see about that.

NICK: i feel like a total harken was never planning on promoting me. 
KURT: that coked-out douchebag is gonna destroy pellit chemicals.
DALE: she stood there with her right in my face.
KURT: you know, yours just doesn't sound that bad.
DALE: why don't you guys quit? it's not like you're offenders.

NICK: it's true. i mean, i'm young. i could go back to school, change fields. 
KURT: yeah. why should i care about protecting pellit's name when his own son doesn't? there's a million jobs out there.
DALE: the world is your oyster.
GUY: well, well, if it isn't the three musketeers, nick, kurt and dale. still hanging out like high school, huh?
NICK: i don't believe it. kenny orkin!
DALE: i heard you moved to new york to work at lehman brothers or something.
KENNY: i did. hired me right out of yale.
KURT: so what are you doing back here?
KENNY: don't you read the papers? they shut us down. i've been looking for work for the last two years. it's crazy out here. i can't even get a job waiting tables.
NICK: you? waiting tables? you were voted most likely to succeed.
KENNY: everyone including me.
KENNY: i'd murder those lehman brothers if i could. line them up, put one bullet through their three heads.

DALE: easy, kenny. 
KENNY: it's just not fair. i was making high six-figures. now i can't even afford this drink. seriously, you think you guys can help me out at all?
DALE: uh, sure. here's a few bucks, kenny.
KENNY: okay, y'know that's not really gonna do it for me.
LEANING IN): i'll tell you what? what if i give you guys handjobs? forty bucks. we can do it in the bathroom right here. i'll do the three of you for a hundred.
KURT: you're gay now?
KENNY: no, i'm not gay.
KENNY: i'm the opposite of gay!
KENNY: come on. handjobs for the three musketeers. let's do this!
BARTENDER: i thought i told you to stay out of here!

KURT: so i guess we're just gonna be miserable for the rest of our lives. 
DALE: what do you mean?
KURT: what options do we have? we can quit our jobs and turn into kenny. or keep our jobs and turn into sad, ball-less losers who spend their days dreaming of ways to kill their bosses.
NICK: you do that too?
KURT: of course. everyone does. it's the only thing that keeps us from going totally bat-shit.
NICK: the other day i imagined shoving one of those jugs from the water cooler in harken's mouth and making him drink until his bladder explodes.
DALE: jeez.
KURT: that's so funny. i had the same idea for pellit.

KURT: only using gasoline instead of water. and his instead of his mouth. 
DALE: you guys are sick.
KURT: what's sick about it? it's just a way to let off steam.
NICK: yeah, dale. it's not like we're actually going to kill our bosses.
KURT: you have to admit though, our lives would be a lot better if our bosses were dead.
NICK: well, of course. it's the one thing that keeps me from being happy.
DALE: me too.
KURT: let's just consider this, for one second.
DALE: consider what?
KURT: killing our bosses. i'm just being hypothetical here.
DALE: yeah, right.
NICK: very funny.
KURT: well, it's not like they're gonna live forever. these pieces of are going to die someday.

KURT: we'd just be accelerating that natural process. 
NICK: shut up, kurt.
DALE: yeah, shut up, kurt.
KURT: frankly, i don't see any reason not to do it.
DALE: well, first of all, killing someone is illegal and immoral --
KURT: it may be illegal but i'm not sure it's immoral. sometimes one evil person has to die for the greater good of the community. if bobby pellit has his way, hundreds, maybe thousands of innocent bolivians will suffer. it would actually be immoral not to kill him.
NICK: i didn't get to say goodbye to gam gam because of harken.
KURT: exactly! who knows how many other gam gams have died alone.
DALE: i can't believe you guys are actually talking about this. i don't care how bad our bosses are.
NICK: no, we're not, dale. we're just trying to live our lives. but what are we supposed to do when someone makes it impossible for us to live our lives? do we just bend over and take it up the forever?

KURT: no, we do not! 
DALE: what you guys are talking about is wrong and you know it.
NICK: julia's ruining your life. that's wrong.
KURT: yeah!
DALE: she's not ruining my life. if anything's ruining my life it's you guys and your drunk
KURT: if it's bullshit, dale, then how come we all want to do it so much?
DALE: i don't want to do it. and when you sober up neither will you. we're not killing anyone.
KURT: i was just being hypothetical.
NICK: yeah, me too.

DALE: i'm really not in the mood for this now -- 
DALE: stacy?!
STACY: not in the mood for what?
DALE: for... nothing. what are you doing here?
JULIA: i invited her.
STACY: she called and said now that we're engaged, she wanted to offer me free dental work. and you know i've had that loose filling for a while. it's so sweet of you, julia.
JULIA: it's my pleasure. you're part of the family now.
DALE: uhhhh... i don't know if this is a good idea.
STACY: why not?
DALE: we don't want to take advantage of julia.
JULIA: dale, there's nothing you could do that would be taking advantage of me. nothing. now what do you say we pump you full of gas?

DALE: wait -- no gas. she doesn't need to be out. 
STACY: what are you talking about, dale?
JULIA: you don't want your fiancã©e to suffer, do you?

DALE: hey! stop it, what are you -- ? 
JULIA: you're gonna give me that dong, dale!

DALE: i knew you only brought her in here to mess with me. 
JULIA: let's have on top of her.

DALE: all right, that's it, julia. this is over. you're out of your mind. i quit! 
JULIA: i'll tell her you me!
DALE: what?
JULIA: if you don't me, i'll tell her you me.
DALE: tell her whatever you want. she'd never believe you.
JULIA: she already knows you're a offender. and once she sees these, i think she'll believe me.
DALE: what is that?
JULIA: you remember your first week here when i replaced the crown on your second bicuspid?
DALE: ... yeah?
JULIA: i took a few snapshots of the procedure. for my files.

DALE: you... you did all this while i was unconscious? 
JULIA: yup.
DALE: how did you make it look like i was awake?
JULIA: taped your eyes open.
DALE: this is rape! you raped me!
JULIA: don't get all dramatic. your wasn't hard. but it will be next time. or else stacy here gets a look at my photo album.

DALE: let's kill the 
KURT: huh?
NICK: what
DALE: my boss. our bosses. they need to die.
NICK: we were drunk last night, man. and didn't you say killing was wrong?
DALE: that was before julia tried to me on top of my fiancã©e's unconscious body.
KURT: whoa!
DALE: i say we kill them all. are you guys in or out?
KURT: i was in last night.
DALE: yes! nick?
KURT: look at her. look at bubby.
NICK: gam gam.

KURT: look at gam gam. getting a smooch from her favorite grandson. little does she know that she'll never get to say goodbye to him. and why? because his boss wouldn't let him leave. what would gam gam want you to do? 
NICK: probably not kill him.
KURT: this isn't about gam gam. this is about you. what do you want, nick?
NICK: i want him to die.
KURT: straight!
NICK: okay, i'm in.
KURT: all right! let's do this.
KURT: how do we do this?
DALE: i was thinking about that on my way over. stacy and i watch a lot of `law and order' and there's a ton of ways criminals mess up. things we'd never think of. they leave behind clothing fibers, bullet casings, hair, skin cells --
KURT: skin cells?! i can't even keep track of my keys!
DALE: exactly. and that's why we need a professional.
NICK: what are you talking about, a hitman?

KURT: you know, that's not bad. i mean, we don't clean our own apartments, right? we hire someone to clean them for us. 
DALE: maybe you do, moneybags.
NICK: but where are we supposed to find a hitman?
DALE: that's the only problem. i have no idea.
KURT: i do. meet at my place tomorrow after work. and make sure you're not followed.
NICK: why would anyone follow us?
KURT: i don't know. people get followed.
DALE: what people?
KURT: just meet me at my place.

KURT: come in. the guy should be here pretty soon. 
NICK: wait. you actually found someone?!
KURT: it was as easy as buying a used futon.

DALE: craigslist?! you found a hitman on craigslist. 
KURT: yup. but they don't post it as `hitman.' that would be stupid. they use code words, like `liquidation,' `pest control,' `wet work.' check it out. this is our guy.
NICK: `skilled professional with years of experience in domestic and international wet work. fast and discreet. no children or political figures.'
KURT: see? he's principled.
DALE: this is so dangerous. what if he's a narc?
NICK: yeah, kurt. call him back and cancel.
KURT: it's too late. he's on his way.
DALE: what do we do if this guy gets here and he asks for so much money that we can't afford him and he gets mad and kills all of us?
KURT: i don't think he'd stay in business long if he killed everyone who couldn't afford him.
NICK: guys! i think this is him!

NICK: nice car. 
KURT: whoa. this guy's legit.
DALE: i bet that briefcase has one of those guns you have to screw together.
NICK: all right, let's just be professional here. we don't want to seem all giddy.
KURT: how's my hair?
NICK: it doesn't matter!
MAN: is one of you kurt?
DALE: oh my he's like james bond!
KURT: yes, hi, i'm kurt. please come in.
MAN: thank you. are all three of you participating in this?

NICK: yes, we are. 
MAN: very well. now before we go any further, i need to know if there are any hidden recording devices in this room. i will find out if there are.
DALE: no, no! we definitely don't want to record this, sir.
MAN: then let's get started.
KURT: whoa, whoa. what's that for?
MAN: for the mess.
NICK: we don't want you to kill us!
DALE: oh my i knew it!
MAN: kill you? what are you talking about?
KURT: your ad said you do wet work.
MAN: that's correct. i urinate on other men for money.
NICK/KURT: what?!
MAN: why do you think my ad was in the `men seeking men' section?

NICK: you were looking in `men seeking men'?! 
KURT: yeah! we're men seeking a man, aren't we?
NICK: you are such a moron.
MAN: so you're telling me i drove all the way to the valley and no one wants to be on?
DALE: please don't kill us.
MAN: i don't kill people! can i use your rest room? i've stored up rather a large amount of pee for this.
KURT: it's right through there.
KURT: good thing i didn't call the guy who was offering to do `dirty work.'

KURT: all right, i'll take the blame for that one. 
NICK: that's big of you.
KURT: i'm going to make it up to you. i figured out a much better way to find a contract killer.

DALE: what's that? 
DALE: oh, come on!
NICK: this is your plan?
KURT: gregory, i need you to direct me to the most dangerous bar in los angeles.
KURT: we need to find the bar with the most scumbags, lowlifes and shitheads. can you help us out?

NICK: so, do you like living in bangalore? 
GREGORY: it's not bad. humid.
DALE: now, `gregory.' is that your real name?
GREGORY: no, sir. my real name is atmanand.
KURT: atmanand? how did you get gregory from that?
GREGORY: `gregory' was assigned to me by on star.
NICK: why don't they let you use your real name?
GREGORY: many americans find our real names off-putting.
KURT: actually, i do find atmanand a little off-putting.

GREGORY: you have arrived at your destination, sir. 
DALE/NICK: thank you, gregory./thanks, gregory.

KURT: this must be the place. 
DALE: aren't you worried about your car?
KURT: nah, gregory's watching it.
NICK: you really think we're gonna find a hitman in there?
KURT: i think we're gonna have a hard time deciding between all the hitmen in there. trust me, these are the lowest of the low.

NICK: oh, real nice, kurt. way to be racist. 
KURT: this isn't a race thing. we need a criminal and this neighborhood is where they live. i'm not saying that's because there are a lot of black people here. that's the fault of our society that discriminates and disenfranchises them.

DALE: you said they were the lowest of the low. 
KURT: i was speaking socio-economically.
NICK: so what do we do now? yell out `anyone here kill people for money?'
KURT: let me handle this.
BARTENDER: yeah?
KURT: hey. how you doing? nice place.
KURT: listen, does anyone here kill people for money?
NICK: kurt!
BARTENDER: the did you just say?
KURT: don't get me wrong. this isn't about race. our society discriminates and disenfranchises

DALE: oh my 
BARTENDER: i'm a small business owner. who are you calling disenfranchised?
KURT: i didn't mean you in particular.
BARTENDER: right. you mean all black people.

NICK: maybe we should go? 
BARTENDER: you could do that. or i could take the aluminum baseball bat i'm holding in my right hand and disenfranchise your teeth from your mouth.
DALE: i vote we go.
KURT: okay, we're going. i'm sorry if i offended you. it was never my --
BARTENDER: oh please shut up.
KURT: okey doke.
DALE: this is ridiculous. we're never gonna find someone to do this for us.
COCKSUCKER JONES: yo!
COCKSUCKER JONES: i think i can help you boys.
DALE: oh, we're just gonna follow him into that alley?... all right.

COCKSUCKER JONES: i heard you're looking for someone to take care of some business for you? 
NICK: yes, we are. are you a...
COCKSUCKER JONES: putting out his
HAND): jones.
NICK: excuse me?
COCKSUCKER JONES: that's my name.
DALE: your first name is cocksucker?
COCKSUCKER JONES: and my last name's jones. you got a problem with that?
DALE: no, no. it's just interesting. that's the name on your birth certificate?
COCKSUCKER JONES: naw, man. it's a nickname. my real name is dean.
DALE: oh! like dean jones. the actor from herbie the love bug.
KURT: i don't think he knows who dean jones is.
COCKSUCKER JONES: i know who dean jones is, i can't walk around here with that kind of faggy, cracker name.
NICK: so you chose `cocksucker'?

COCKSUCKER JONES: that's right. nobody with a `cocksucker' is the toughest name there is. 
DALE: not `motherfucker'?
COCKSUCKER JONES: i considered motherfucker. but in the end, i thought jones sounded more badass than jones.
KURT: i agree.
NICK: okay, here's the thing: we each work for a boss that we need to get rid of. is that something you might be able to help us with?
COCKSUCKER JONES: it is. assuming you've got the cheese.
KURT: we've got cheese. how much cheese are we talking?
COCKSUCKER JONES: for three hits? that's gonna run you thirty large.
NICK: that's a lot of cheese.
KURT: we don't have that much cheese.
DALE: isn't there any kind of discount because we're buying three at once? like buy two, get one free.
COCKSUCKER JONES: this ain't the cold stone creamery. it's thirty large or nothing.
NICK: there's no way we can pay that.

COCKSUCKER JONES: five large. 
DALE: wow.
DALE: good negotiating.
NICK: that's a lot more reasonable. and that would be for all three, cocksucker?
COCKSUCKER JONES: yeah.
KURT: great. we're in.
COCKSUCKER JONES: okay, meet me back here tomorrow night with the cash. i'll take care of the rest.
NICK: should we bring the bills in any kind of special denominations?
COCKSUCKER JONES: no, just, whatever. small bills.
NICK: got it.
KURT: and do you want it in any particular container, like a shoebox?
NICK: or a paper bag?
DALE: or plastic. i read an article that plastic is actually better for the environment than paper.
COCKSUCKER JONES: the environment! just put that in a briefcase.
NICK: got it. thanks. come on, guys.

DALE: should we deduct the cost of the briefcase? 
COCKSUCKER JONES: what?!
DALE: i mean, assuming we don't get the case back... we're not getting the case back, right?
DALE: well, that's like an extra eighty bucks. only seems fair that we should take that out of your end.
NICK: we'll cover the briefcase, dale.
DALE: then let's get a cheap one. it doesn't have to be real leather. are you cool with faux -- ?

COCKSUCKER JONES: looks like it's all here. 
DALE: turns out we didn't really need the briefcase after all. could've just used a manila envelope.
KURT: shut up, dale.
NICK: so, cocksucker, how long do you think it'll be before you've...
COCKSUCKER JONES: here's the thing. i just got out of doing a dime for some pretty ugly and i'm still on probation. they're watching me. so if i step out of line, i go right back inside.
KURT: you told us you could take care of it.
COCKSUCKER JONES: and i'm gonna. i'm gonna be your professional advisor. think of me as your murder consultant.
NICK: we don't want a murder consultant.
DALE: i knew we were getting ripped off!
KURT: okay, look. this isn't what we talked about.

KURT: can we just get our money back, please? then we'll be on our way. 
COCKSUCKER JONES: sorry, no refunds.
NICK: that's five thousand dollars. you think we're just gonna walk away and let you keep that?
COCKSUCKER JONES: i think you're forgetting who you're talking to.
DALE: whoa, whoa! we don't want any trouble.
COCKSUCKER JONES: now either i give you the advice you paid for, or you can walk away with nothing. up to you.
KURT: look, the whole reason we came to you is because we don't have the experience to do it ourselves.
COCKSUCKER JONES: most killers are first-timers. look, the key to a good murder is making it look like an accident. gas leak, brakes failing, suicide, that sort of thing. if you do it right, you won't even have to be there when it goes down.
NICK: that makes sense. but how would we fake three accidents?
COCKSUCKER JONES: you need to stalk your prey, track their movements, get to know them inside and out. where do they go? what do they eat for breakfast?

DALE: you're talking about surveillance and recon. 
COCKSUCKER JONES: but making it look like an accident won't be enough if the pigs can pin a motive on you.
NICK: well, we all have obvious motives for killing our bosses.
COCKSUCKER JONES: so why don't you kill each other's bosses?
DALE: hey, that's a good idea. like hitchcock's strangers on a train.
KURT: the danny devito movie?
DALE: yes, the famous alfred hitchcock/danny devito movie. you're thinking of throw mama from the train. but it's actually the same idea. if we kill each other's bosses there's no link to us.
NICK: that's pretty good.
COCKSUCKER JONES: that's what you're paying me for. now ain't that worth five grand?
COCKSUCKER JONES: yeah, well, too bad.

KURT: we're outside. you ready for a little recon? 
NICK: yeah. i just need to get harken to let me leave early.
KURT: what's the difference? he's not going to be your boss much longer.
NICK: if i get fired before we kill harken, this'll all have been for nothing. i'll just be an out-of- work murderer.
HARKEN: what in name...?!
NICK: sorry, sir. i've been fighting this bug all day. i'll just get back to work --
HARKEN: no. go home. i don't want you getting everyone else sick.
NICK: oh, okay. thank you, mr. harken.

HARKEN: wait. take your work with you. have it on my desk at six am. 
HARKEN: disgusting.

KURT: okay, boys, as soon as pellit makes a move, we tail him. it is on now. 
NICK: oh, it's on.
DALE: hells yeah!

KURT: ugghhhhh, i can't believe how much this 
DALE: i don't get it. on tv, surveillance always looks so great. they've got their cups of coffee. their sunflower seeds.

DALE: and then, right when they reveal something really intimate, the perp appears and they spring into action. 
NICK: are we even sure he's home?
KURT: let's go check it out.

NICK: i don't see him. 
DALE: what are you doing?
KURT: we're not gonna get intel standing on his lawn. we have to go in.
DALE: what about fingerprints? we don't have gloves.
KURT: here, do this.
KURT: here we go.

KURT: dale, keep an eye out. let us know if pellit's coming. 
DALE: got it. wait, i don't know what he looks like.
NICK: it doesn't matter. just tell us if anyone comes.
DALE: got it.
KURT: wow. this guy's a bigger douchebag than me.
NICK: okay, let's split up. look for any intel we can use on him.
KURT: what kind of intel?
NICK: i don't know. i guess we'll know it when we see it.
DALE: hey, nick? does this count as intel?
NICK: holy that's a lot of blow.
DALE: this must be worth, like, ten thousand -- oh

NICK: what the fuck?!! 
DALE: sorry, my sleeves were slippery!
NICK: we've got to get that back in the box.
DALE: i've got it.

DALE: i guess we should've emptied the dustbuster before we used it. 
NICK: you think?

DALE: hey look, there's a piece of cereal in here. can't tell if that's a corn flake or a frosted flake... 
KURT: okay, my work upstairs is done.
NICK: we need to be better prepared. that was totally dangerous and a complete waste of time.
KURT: not a complete waste.
NICK: oh no... don't tell me...

DALE: you stole that from pellit's house? 
KURT: it's got his calendar and his contacts. this is what recon's all about.
DALE: nobody said we'd be stealing.
KURT: shall we pay a little visit to your boss, nick?
NICK: i guess so. but let's make a stop first.

DALE: what did you need to get? 
NICK: no more sleeve gloves.
DALE: nice.
KURT: oh man, you should've asked me. i've got a whole box of those in my bedside table.
OUT LOOKS): don't judge me.
NICK: take a right up here. harken's place is about a mile away.

DALE: y'know... this is kinda, i don't know... exciting. 
KURT: very.
NICK: yeah.
NICK: i guess we're really doing this now, huh?
DALE: i guess so.

DALE: can i have a pair? 
NICK: you know, last time with the three of us, it got a little... messy. what if kurt and i go in and you stay here and watch out for harken?
DALE: okay -- again, i don't know what he looks like.
NICK: if anyone approaches the house, assume it's him and give us a signal.
DALE: fine. i'll honk the horn six times.
KURT: maybe something a little more subtle?

DALE: honk the horn four times? 
NICK: how about you just honk once?
DALE: people honk once all the time. you'll be running in and out of the house.
KURT: fine. honk twice.
DALE: okay...

NICK: looks like the coast is clear. 
KURT: guess we'll have to break in the old-fashioned way.
NICK: kurt, wait!
KURT: holy i broke the rock.
NICK: no, it's one of those hide-a-key things. look...

NICK: wow. this is not how i pictured his place. 
KURT: for all we know, he's got a closet full of skin suits.
NICK: 
KURT: stupid cat.
KURT: let's check upstairs.

KURT: it! how many cats do they have? 
NICK: i think that was the same one.
KURT: little bastard.
KURT: that's mrs. harken? i'd like to cover her in yogurt.
NICK: you want to cover every woman in... did you say `cock yogurt'?
KURT: i did.
KURT: ahhh!
NICK: if he's so scared of us, why doesn't he just leave us alone?!
DALE: c'mon, c'mon... yes!

HARKEN: hey, schmuck. 
DALE: excuse me?
HARKEN: you want to tell me why you're littering on my street?
DALE: oh, i'm sorry, that blew out the window. i wasn't littering.
HARKEN: i don't care if it blew out of your twat. now, get your chevy cavalier the off my block!
DALE: whoa. sir, there's no need to be hostile.
HARKEN: hostile? you want to see hostile? how about i go in the house and get my --
DALE: get your what?
HARKEN: peanuts?
DALE: huh? oh, yeah. it was a peanut butter sandwich.
DALE: oh what should i do?! tell me what to do!

DALE: what do i do with this? should i inject you?! 
DALE: okay, hold on! i got this.
DALE: did i do it? did i get enough in?! i'm gonna do it again!

WINDOW): what the...? dude, check this out. 
NICK: that's harken! dale's killing harken!
KURT: holy he's really doing it!
KURT: out where everyone can see him.

NICK: what the is he thinking?! 
KURT: he's not stopping. he's gonna get us all caught. we've gotta get out of here.
NICK: what about dale?
KURT: he's a psychopath. we leave him behind.
NICK: right. let's go through the back!

MRS. HARKEN: oh my what happened?! 
DALE: he had an allergic reaction. but i think he's coming around. do you know him?
MRS. HARKEN: he's my husband.
MRS. HARKEN: honey? can you hear me?
HARKEN: wha-- what did you do to me?
DALE: i injected you with your thing.

MRS. HARKEN: he saved your life, honey. 
MRS. HARKEN: thank you so much!
DALE: oh, it was nothing.
HARKEN: what's this? what's with the hugging?
MRS. HARKEN: i'm just thankful that he was here.
HARKEN: i'll bet you are. do you know this guy?
MRS. HARKEN: no. we just --
HARKEN: are you him, rhonda?
MRS. HARKEN: oh, come on.
HARKEN: what were you doing out here, anyway? waiting to my wife?
DALE: i've never met your wife --
HARKEN: you need to get the out of here.
MRS. HARKEN: dave, stop it. you should be thanking him. why are you being so suspicious?

HARKEN: why? because i know you sleep around on me. and i'm going to find out who it is. 
MRS. HARKEN: you're being ridiculous.
HARKEN: am i? what about maurilio? i see the way you look at him.
MRS. HARKEN: i am not having with the gardener!
NICK: i can't believe that dale. you realize we're all going to jail because of him.
KURT: i can't go to jail. look at these eyes. look at this ass. they'll be all over me.
NICK: yeah, me too.
KURT: well...
NICK: what do you mean `well'? i'd get raped just as much as you.
KURT: no, of course you would. you're a good-looking guy.
NICK: you think you're more rape-able than i am.

KURT: i never said that -- dale enters. 
DALE: oh good. you guys are here. did you see me out there?
KURT: yeah, dale, we saw you.
DALE: pretty neat, huh?
NICK: no, it wasn't neat! you stabbed harken to death in front of the whole neighborhood!
KURT: not cool, man.
DALE: wait, that was harken?
NICK: who'd you think you were stabbing?
DALE: i wasn't stabbing anybody. that was an epi-pen. he was having an allergic reaction to peanuts and i injected him.
NICK: so let me understand this. my boss, who we are trying to kill, was dying in front of you and you saved his life?
KURT: not cool, man.
DALE: wait, you were just mad at me for killing him and now you're mad at me for not killing him?!
DALE: see, this is why i needed to know what these people look like!

NICK: hang on a sec. maybe this recon wasn't a waste of time. now we know harken's deathly allergic to peanuts and pellit has a huge stash of cocaine. 
KURT: we could put peanuts in harken's house and rat poison in pellit's coke!
NICK: everyone would assume that pellit just got a batch of tainted drugs.
DALE: but harken must always have that epi-pen on him.
KURT: i bet he doesn't wear it in the shower. we could put peanuts in his shampoo!
NICK: perfect! two fatal accidents. and we're not even there when they happen.
DALE: that just leaves julia.
KURT: tomorrow night, i'll surveil her and figure out how to take her down.
NICK: good. i'll get some rat poison and take care of pellit. dale, think you can get some peanuts into harken's shampoo?
DALE: i can do that.
KURT: all right. that just leaves us with one final thing to settle.

NICK: what's that? 
KURT: dale, if nick and i were in prison, which one of us would get raped more?

NICK: hey. have you learned anything about julia yet? 
KURT: well, i've learned that dale is a homosexual because this chick is unbelievably hot. how's it going over there?
NICK: i'm just waiting for pellit to go to sleep. i wonder how dale's doing with harken.

NICK: where does he get the energy? 
NICK: oh yeah.
CELL PHONE RINGS.: nick answers.
NICK: what's up, dale?

DALE: harken just left his house. i'm going in. 
NICK: good luck, man.
DALE: thanks.

DALE: nick? 
NICK: what?

DALE: i'm not sure if i can do this. 
NICK: where are you?
DALE: in harken's bathroom. about to pour the nuts in his shampoo. but, i just... i know he's a real shithead, but he's still a person, y'know?
NICK: looking down at the rat poison,
RELUCTANTLY): yeah. i know.
DALE: what should i do? should i do it?
NICK: what the
DALE: what?
NICK: it's harken. he's here!
DALE: at pellit's?! why?!
NICK: i don't know. he's knocking on his door!
DALE: how would harken even know pellit?

NICK: oh my oh my oh my 
DALE: what? what? what?!
NICK: he shot him. harken shot pellit!
DALE: oh my is he dead?!
NICK: shhhh!
NICK: 

DALE: what's happening? 
NICK: harken's gone.

DALE: what about pellit? 
NICK: he's not moving. he looks dead.
DALE: what do we do?!
NICK: i've got to get out of here before someone sees me! meet me at the bar. i'll call kurt.

KURT: okay, let's all stay calm and figure this out. 
NICK: calm? how can we be calm? i watched a man die an hour ago!
KURT: a man you were going to kill anyway.
NICK: well...
KURT: what?
NICK: i don't know if i had it in me.
DALE: me neither.

KURT: i can't believe you guys! you can't just bail on a plan like that at the last minute. 
NICK: you think when it came down to it, you would've been able to murder julia?
KURT: i don't know. i mean, afterwards, it was kind of hard to imagine killing her.
DALE: `afterwards'?
NICK: you slept with her, didn't you?
DALE: oh please tell me you didn't sleep with her.
NICK: you are a mess.
KURT: i know, i know. but it's not my fault.

KURT: then she made herself a little snack. a popsicle... 
KURT: ... then a banana....
KURT: ... and finally a hot dog. i mean, three penis-shaped foods cannot be coincidence. and in that weird order? that's not a proper meal.

DALE: so you took that as an invitation to her? 
KURT: no. i took her invitation to her as an invitation to her.

NICK: there is something clinically wrong with you. 
KURT: i know. i'm a rapscallion.
DALE: you're not a rapscallion. you're a whore. a filthy whore.
KURT: hey. not nice. and besides, i think i actually solved your problem, dale. julia just needed a good i bet she's not going to mess with you anymore.
NICK: whatever. we have bigger fish to fry right now. what do we do about harken?
KURT: here's what we do. we call the cops and make an anonymous tip that harken killed pellit. boom. harken's in jail. pellit's in hell. julia's had the crazy out of her. our problems are solved. boom.
NICK: okay, but we should find a payphone. we don't want them tracing the call to us.
NICK: come on, we'll take my car.

NICK: what the hell? 
COP: are you the owner of this vehicle?
NICK: uh, yes. is there something wrong?
COP: we've got an apb on a black kia spectra, license 4hig208.
NICK: can i ask why?
COP: a traffic cam caught this vehicle fleeing the scene of a crime tonight. i'm going to need you to follow us to the station.
KURT: officer? this is not my car. is it okay if i just -- ?
COP: all three of you, please.

KURT: oh, please. we were just being hypothetical. you're the one who pushed us to do it. 
NICK: we can't even say anything about harken now.
KURT: why not?
NICK: uh, well, kurt, being outside the murder victim's house because i was planning to murder him probably isn't the best alibi in the world.
KURT: you know, i didn't actually do anything illegal, so...
DALE: you broke into two people's houses and stole a blackberry!
KURT: you gonna rat on me, dale?
DALE: well, since i'm the only one without a connection to the murder, yeah, maybe i will.
NICK: that means you'd also rat on me.
KURT: not if i rat on dale first.
HAGAN: gentlemen, this way, please.

HAGAN: do you want to explain why you were driving 61 in a 25 zone, a block from the victim's house two minutes after he was shot to death? 
NICK: i... was drag racing.
LOOK): i am a drag racer. there's no law against that, is there?
HAGAN: actually there is.
SAMSON: you were drag racing in a kia spectra?
NICK: i don't win a lot.
HAGAN: here's what i don't understand. you're at the crime scene. an hour later when we find your car, you just happen to be hanging out with this guy... ... a registered offender --
KURT: tsk tsk.
HAGAN: ... and this guy... ... whose employee id says he works for pellit chemicals, the victim's company.

KURT: wait. my boss was murdered?! 
DALE: you want me to get you a kleenex?
KURT: i can't believe this.
KURT: what were you doing near his house?!
NICK: where were you during the murder?
KURT: i was making love.
DALE: `making love.'
KURT: let me ask you something, detective. let's say one of us knew who the shooter was and was willing to hand you that perp on a platter. would he be entitled to some sort of immunity for that information?
HAGAN: no. but he would be entitled to some sort of jail time. because if he knew who the shooter was and didn't tell us, that would be obstruction of justice.
KURT: well, then i'm glad we have no idea who the shooter is, right, guys?

SAMSON: if you expect us to believe this is all just a big coincidence, we're going to be here for a long time. 
DALE: okay wait!
DALE: saying that we'll be here for a long time implies that we can't leave. does that mean we're under arrest?
HAGAN: no. we just brought you in for questioning.
DALE: so, you don't have evidence constituting probable cause to arrest us?
SAMSON: not yet.
DALE: well then, we're free to go?
HAGAN: technically.
DALE: come on, guys.

NICK: nice work. where'd that come from? 
DALE: `law and order.'
KURT: we really showed those guys.
NICK: `we'? you were gonna turn us in!
KURT: for, like, a second.
SAMSON: stop!
SAMSON: for speeding and running a red light.
SAMSON: don't get too comfortable out there, boys. our forensics team is sweeping pellit's house for fingerprints and dna. and they don't miss much.

KURT: we are so 
NICK: maybe it's time to lawyer up.
DALE: i don't have money for a lawyer. i gave all my money to jones!
KURT: hey, that's right! i forgot all about why don't we ask him what to do?
NICK: we did pay him five thousand dollars to be our murder consultant.
DALE: actually, it was five thousand forty with the briefcase.

COCKSUCKER JONES: oh damn, look who's back. how did it go with the strangers on a train 
KURT: not great. we need your help.
NICK: one of our intended victims killed another of our intended victims.
COCKSUCKER JONES: shut the up! what kind of evil geniuses are you?

DALE: we don't even know why it happened. but the cops brought us in as suspects. what do we do now? 
COCKSUCKER JONES: first things first. i'm gonna need another five thousand dollars.
KURT: what? no way. you said the last five thousand would cover this!
COCKSUCKER JONES: okay, fine. pay for my drink.
DALE: not the best negotiator, is he?
COCKSUCKER JONES: let me ask you this -- the guy who killed the other guy you were planning on killing, are the police after him too?
NICK: no. they don't suspect him.
COCKSUCKER JONES: all right, so you're gonna need to encourage him to turn himself in, by say, kidnapping his wife and mailing him her earlobe or something.
DALE: that's horrible.
COCKSUCKER JONES: naw, the earlobe's vestigial. all right, how about you trick him into confessing what he did while you wear a wire?
KURT: a wire. that's good.

NICK: is that how the cops caught you when you murdered someone? 
COCKSUCKER JONES: what the are you talking about? i never murdered anyone.
NICK: what?
COCKSUCKER JONES: who told you i killed somebody?
KURT: you did. you said you served a `dime' for `some pretty ugly shit.'
COCKSUCKER JONES: it was ugly.
DALE: what was it?
COCKSUCKER JONES: you ever see the movie snow falling on cedars?
NICK/KURT: no.
DALE: yes.
COCKSUCKER JONES: i got caught with a video camera making a bootleg copy of that movie.
NICK: you did ten years for video piracy?
COCKSUCKER JONES: hey, that's a federal offense.
COCKSUCKER JONES: i also made the mistake of representing myself at trial. may have insulted a few of the jurors.

KURT: hold on. you're telling me we've been taking murder advice from someone whose biggest crime was taping an ethan hawke movie?! 
COCKSUCKER JONES: so you do know it.
DALE: if you're not a murderer, why do you carry that gun on your belt?
COCKSUCKER JONES: gun?
COCKSUCKER JONES: this is a iphone.
NICK: i feel like such a moron.
COCKSUCKER JONES: well, you are a moron. you don't walk into a bar and hand a guy five thousand dollars just because he's black.
KURT: come on, guys. let's get out of here.
COCKSUCKER JONES: trust me on the wire thing, though. worked for donnie brasco.

HAGAN: you got something for us? 
CRIME TECH: we didn't find any foreign prints in the house, but we did get a dna match for one of your suspects, kurt gamble.
SAMSON: where was it?
CRIME TECH: pellit's upstairs bathroom. his toothbrush. it had traces of gamble's matter.
HAGAN: that sick bastard.
CRIME TECH: that's not all. we found feces on pellit's hairbrush, face soap, floss and razor.
SAMSON: razor?!
CRIME TECH: the handle. not the blade. this gamble guy put just about everything in that bathroom up his ass.
HAGAN: all i care about is that it puts him inside the house. that's enough for a warrant for him and his drag racing, offender friends. i'll call the da.

KURT: okay, looks quiet. is the tape recorder ready? 
DALE: fresh batteries, fresh six-hour tape, voice activated.
NICK: one of us needs to tape it to our chest.
KURT: i'll do it. i'm the only one without hair on my chest.
NICK: that's `cause you shave it.
KURT: i don't shave it. i wax it.
DALE: so what do we do now? wait for harken to come home and ambush him?
NICK: i have a better idea. let's be in the house when he walks in. he'll be so mad, he'll be more likely to confess.
KURT: right. we'll sit there in the dark till he comes in, and then switch on a lamp. that'll freak him out.
DALE: hey, we should find an office chair so one of us can dramatically spin around and face harken.
NICK: i'll be in the chair.

KURT: why do you get to be the guy in the chair? 
NICK: he's my boss.
DALE: we could try and find more than one office chair so the three of us can spin around at the same time.
KURT: that doesn't sound intimidating.
DALE: i guess you're right. i'll turn on the lamp.
KURT: so i'm just supposed to stand there like an idiot?
NICK: you're recording it all. you're the most important member of the team.
KURT: don't patronize me, nick.

MRS. HARKEN: who are you? 
NICK: uh... hi... sorry we're late. i'm nick. i work with your husband

MRS. HARKEN: aren't you the young man who helped dave on the street the other day? 
DALE: uh, yes. how's he doing?
MRS. HARKEN: he's fine. thanks to you. did i invite you to this?
GUEST #1: his car just turned the corner!
GUEST #2: someone get the lights!
KURT: hi, we didn't formally meet. i'm kurt.
MRS. HARKEN: hi.
KURT: nick didn't tell me that his boss was married to a model.
MRS. HARKEN: noticing him now,
FLATTERED): i'm not a model.
KURT: when did you quit?

PARTYGOERS: surprise! 
MRS. HARKEN: were you surprised?
HARKEN: oh, yeah.
MRS. HARKEN: look, everyone's here.
HARKEN: almost everyone.
MRS. HARKEN: who are you talking about?
HARKEN: i think you know.
HARKEN: i need to put my stuff away. i'll be right back.

NICK: he's going off alone. this is our chance. 
DALE: you guys ready?
KURT: so ready.
NICK: okay, stay close.

HARKEN: what the are you doing here? 
HARKEN: you come to stab me a few more times, you lunatic?
HARKEN: and my wife invited you? are you her too?
NICK: we know what you did, harken.
HARKEN: what does that mean?
NICK: we were there. we saw you kill him.

DALE: say his name. 
HARKEN: what?

DALE: the guy you killed. what was his name? 
HARKEN: trust me, pellit's name doesn't matter anymore.
NICK: there it is! let's go, guys --
HARKEN: yeah, i killed pellit --
NICK: hang on. hold that thought, because i want to get my friend,

HARKEN: i walked right up to his door and i shot him in his chest, and i'll tell you something: i liked it. so if you think i'm a who won't do the same exact thing to some half-assed blackmailer, guess again. 
NICK: looking back at the
LIVING ROOM): you know who really thinks you're a is my friend kurt. let me go grab him and you can tell him exactly what you just --
HARKEN: you're pathetic, waters. you come into my home, on my goddam birthday and try and pull this well, guess what? you're a dead man. you...
HARKEN: ... you, and your friend kurt, whoever the he is. dead.

DALE: we didn't know it was your birthday. 
NICK: what are you doing? what's in that?
HARKEN: my gun. just give me a second.

NICK: we had him! we had the whole thing. what happened to kurt? 
KURT: oh, hey.
NICK: `hey'?! where were you?!
KURT: uh, i had to go to the bathroom. bad salmon puff. are we ready to record harken?
NICK: you're too late, kurt! he confessed the whole thing!
DALE: more than once! then he told us we were dead men! he's getting his gun right now!
KURT: oh, man, i'm so sorry. i up.

NICK: yeah, you -- 
NICK: realizing what kurt
WAS DOING): you

KURT: look, i wasn't thinking. she's so hot and i'm so weak. i'm a weak, weak man. i admit it. 
KURT: in here? but all those people are right outside.
MRS. HARKEN: i know. that makes it even hotter.
MRS. HARKEN: your are so smooth.
KURT: i wax them.
DALE: is there anything you don't wax?

NICK: ugh. turn it off, dale! 
KURT: oh yeah... oh
MRS. HARKEN: whoops. that was fast...
KURT: yeah, dale, turn that off!

KURT: holy they must have found my dna. 
NICK: turn around! get us out of here!

KURT: okay, it's clear that none of us can go home again. probably ever. 
DALE: what?!
KURT: i'm sure they have cops at all our places. i think our best bet is to get out of the country.
NICK: where are we going to go?
KURT: mexico?
DALE: everyone flees to mexico. that's the first place they'll look.
KURT: you're right. what about asia?
NICK: what the are you talking about?
KURT: what if our entire lives have been leading up to this moment? what if we were destined from the very beginning to become asian kick boxers?
NICK: what if i was destined to smack you right in the face?
KURT: that seems like a lesser destiny.
DALE: hello?

JULIA: hello, lover. 
DALE: oh look, julia, i can't talk right now --
JULIA: no worries, baby. i actually meant to call your home phone.
DALE: no! wait!
JULIA: i think i've waited long enough. i'm tired of you playing with my emotions.
DALE: i'm not playing. i'm going to do it. i swear!
JULIA: this friday. at the office.
DALE: fine!
JULIA: wait. what are you going to do to me?
DALE: i'm going to... have with you.
JULIA: details! and be explicit.
DALE: right now? you want me to say it?
KURT: oh, we've got company.

NICK: it's harken! lose him! 
KURT: lose him? sure, nick. his 500 horsepower is no match for my 150.
JULIA: say it!
DALE: i'm gonna put my in your pussy!
JULIA: oh, come on, casanova. you can do better than that.
DALE: i'm gonna make you feel good. with my tongue... and my fingers. and whatnot.
NICK: christ, this guy's nuts!
JULIA: you going to slap me with your cock, dale?
DALE: yes! yes! i'm going to beat your face with my cock!
JULIA: more!

DALE: i'm gonna put my in your hair! i'm gonna spit on your arms! 
JULIA: see you friday, you dirty bird.
DALE: nice job `fucking the crazy out of her,' kurt!
KURT: maybe i should've spit on her arms.
KURT: what the hell?
KURT: yeah, thanks, gregory, we know. we're being chased by a crazy man and he just smashed into us!
NICK: no, wait! don't call the police!

DALE: they think we murdered someone. 
NICK: why are you slowing down?!
KURT: i'm not! the engine died!
KURT: why would you do that, gregory?!
KURT: i pay nineteen bucks a month for this service!
DALE: i thought you were our friend, gregory!
NICK: he's not stopping!
KURT: oh,

DALE:  
KURT: i'm guessing you don't want to
EXCHANGE INSURANCE: information -- ?
HARKEN: out of the car. all of you.
NICK: look, mr. harken --
HARKEN: shut the up! i've got six bullets in here. so if i want to, i can shoot each of you twice, just like i did that bastard, pellit. but if i do that, i'll have to spend the rest of my life running from the law or rotting in jail.
DALE: so, you're not gonna shoot us?
HARKEN: no. i have a better idea.
HARKEN: unnnnhhhh!
NICK: what the -- ?!
HARKEN: catch.

KURT: that's crazy! 
HARKEN: is it? because i don't see a shred of evidence proving that i killed pellit. it's like i've always told you, nick. life is a marathon and you can't win a marathon without putting a few band-aids on your nipples.
HARKEN: who said that?
KURT: that's gregory, our on star rep.
HARKEN: you can't -- this isn't --

NICK: i think this is gonna work out okay for us. 
KURT: i told you.
DALE: should we stop him?
KURT: probably.
NICK: i've got this. this is for you, gam gam.
HARKEN: get the off me!
KURT: hey, harken, one last thing?
HARKEN: what?!
KURT: your wife gives great head.

MARGIE: oh, hey, kurt. come in. 
KURT: thanks, margie. i just wanted to congratulate you on taking over bobby's job.
MARGIE: thank you. terrible what happened to him.
KURT: yeah. tough month for the pellit family. anyway, if there's anything i can do to help out before the baby gets here, please let me know.
MARGIE: what baby?
KURT: your baby.
MARGIE: i'm not pregnant.
KURT: yeah, right. look at that big belly.

MARGIE: i'm aware that i have a weight problem, kurt. it just happens to manifest itself in my lower abdomen. 
KURT: i... oh, my i'm really sorry, margie -- he falls silent under margie's death stare.
MARGIE: kurt, i know you were a favorite of jack's. he was willing to overlook your inappropriate behavior with female clients and service people. but you should be aware, i'm not jack. and i have very little tolerance for the mistreatment of women. so consider this your first strike.
KURT: how was i supposed to know you were just fat --
MARGIE: strike two.

JULIA: thank it's friday, right, dale? 
DALE: yeah.
JULIA: let's drill this patient and then you can drill me.

DALE: could we do it on top of the patient? i like the element of danger. 
JULIA: you continue to surprise me, you weird little man.
JULIA: you like that? this getting you hot?
DALE: oh, yeah.
JULIA: `i wish i was dale's weenie so i could have with julia.'
JULIA: what the hell?!
KENNY: sorry, dale. i couldn't keep it together anymore --
JULIA: what is this?
DALE: julia, meet my old high school friend, kenny.
KENNY: how do you do?

DALE: kenny will do just about anything for fifty bucks and that's why i hired him to help me frame you. your days of sexually assaulting me and your patients are over. 
JULIA: seriously? this is all you've got? your word against mine? i'm a highly respected professional and you're two losers.
DALE: three losers.
JULIA: you little --
DALE: shut up, julia. now, my fiancee and i are going to take a very expensive two week vacation which you're going to pay for. and then i'm going to come back to a rape- free workplace. because if you so much as look at my ass, i'll have yours locked up.
KENNY: i don't suppose you could take a look at this molar --

NICK: hi, carter. just wanted to check if you had a chance to finish those regional sales projections yet? 
CARTER: oh, i think i may need another day.
NICK: okay. i was hoping to give them to the marketing guys today, but i can hold them off.
NICK: in the future, it'd be great if you could tell me if you're going to miss a deadline.

141 SAME SCENE  141: carter stands opposite nick as before. 
CARTER: sure. no problem, mr. waters.
NICK: thanks, buddy.
NICK: it's good to be the boss.

