speaker1: written by dan pyne 
speaker1: current revisions by glenn gers

speaker1: the n.t.s.b. guys are here. 
speaker2: yep.

speaker1: what about dinner tonight? 
speaker2: we go out to dinner - we might never come back.
speaker1: okay.
speaker1: ...at least see where you live.

speaker1: lieutenant nunally, please. he listens to hold music and checks the time. 
speaker2: he doesn't come on til six. you want his voice mail?
speaker1: no. thank you. i'll see him later.

speaker1: i just felt a sudden urge. 
speaker2: are you...okay?
speaker1: i could use a hug.
speaker2: have you been drinking?
speaker1: i've been watching you sleep. at night.
speaker2: that's creepy.
speaker1: sometimes when i'm at work, i'll start thinking about you and i'll just get - just - overwhelmed.
speaker2: tommy -
speaker1: it's a dense, crushing - geophysical force. like i'm pinned. at the core - where things change. you ever get that way about me, jen?
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: i'm trying to describe my feelings.
speaker2: those don't sound like feelings.

speaker1: no? what's the sound of one feeling...in a forest? 
speaker2: you think you're so much smarter than i am. that must make you feel very powerful.
speaker1: helpless, actually.
speaker2: okay. maybe it's time to really talk.
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker2: fine. whatever. i'll make you some dinner.
speaker1: i know. everything.
speaker2: i'm so sorry.
speaker1: don't be. knowledge is pain. i'm used to that.
speaker1: it's not like i don't let little pleasures, in return for the pain.

speaker1: you the negotiator? 
speaker2: yeah. what do we know?

speaker1: mr. crawford? 
speaker2: who is this?
speaker1: my name is lieutenant robert nunally. i'm a hostage negotiator for the los - crawford hangs up. thoughtful.

speaker1: mr. crawford? 
speaker1: okay then. here we go.

speaker1: mr. crawford? 
speaker1: hey.
speaker2: get rid of the vampires.
speaker2: do i call you rob?
speaker1: if you want.

speaker1: not vampires. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: not vampires. ghouls. sorry.
speaker2: mr. crawford, what do you say you give me the gun - so i can pay more attention to what you're saying?
speaker1: is that your best shot? so to speak.
speaker2: i just think - maybe it would -
speaker1: tell you what: i will if you will. nunally frowns, wary.
speaker1: we both put down our guns. at the same time.
speaker1: we set them down and step away. then you can "pay more attention" to what i'm saying.

speaker1: happy ending, then. 
speaker2: mr. crawford, your neighbor mentioned that your wife -
speaker1: it's tom.
speaker2: i'm sorry?
speaker1: you can call me tom.
speaker2: tom. your wife. is she here?
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: is she all right?
speaker1: i don't think she is. i shot her, rob.
speaker2: you shot your wife.

speaker1: it was like i just suddenly - snapped. 
speaker2: - okay - i hear you -
speaker1: and i shot her in the head. i know it was wrong. are you listening to me?
speaker2: oh christ.
speaker2: we need a medic in here! get the ambulance up! right now! now! now!
speaker2: oh no - no - i can't - get a -
speaker1: you know, i think i read somewhere that a good place to find a pulse is the femoral artery. it's on the inner surface of the upper thigh. if you put your fingers - you know, right up inside her dress -

speaker1: well, i won't see you in court, but someone from this office will. you take it up with them, i gotta go. slocum. oh - hey, hi, yes. 
speaker2: wooton sims?!
speaker1: no, i didn't. wow. okay.
speaker1: no - short notice is...fine. no, i can. black tie. sure. what time? okay. yes. thank her.
speaker2: wooton - sims?!
speaker1: please stop saying, "wooton sims" over and over. it's starting to sound like nonsense words.
speaker2: you asshole!
speaker1: okay: go back to "wooton sims." as gets up and goes out, past norman -
speaker2: how the did you get a job at wooton sims?! i can't even get an interview!

speaker1: i've been here five years. i'm your supervisor. i graduated usc, summa! 
speaker2: we're just going to pretend he's not talking, okay?
speaker2: i'm really jammed-up all day, and i need to rent a tuxedo - for tonight.
speaker1: a tuxedo?! oh, come on! you are so full of
speaker2: there must be a place that does that, right - same day? i'm also gonna need a messenger to bring it here. this is my suit size and my shirt size...i really appreciate this. mona nods, taking notes as gets out a credit card.
speaker3: what's going on?
speaker2: wooton sims buys a whole lot of seats to this charity opera thing every year, because bob wooton is the chairman of this committee -
speaker1: "bob" wooton?!
speaker2: it's what the man told me to call him.

speaker1: you're gonna need to pick out a style, willy. 
speaker2: a style.
speaker1: for the tuxedo.
speaker2: i don't know - i just don't want to look like i'm going to the prom.
speaker1: you wanna go classic. fix him up.
speaker3: we'll get you something classic. slocum's office.
speaker4: make sure it comes with cuff-links and knee-pads.
speaker2: oh, that's very nice: it's good to be back in high school.
speaker3: willy?
speaker3: wants to see you.
speaker2: our god?
speaker3: who art on the eleventh floor.

speaker1: william no-middle-initial slocum. 
speaker2: yes sir.
speaker1: sit. eighty-four-percent conviction rate.
speaker2: thank you.
speaker1: with a case load thirty percent higher than any other first-year dda. of course - you also swapped more cases than the rest of them put together. considers his options. he always does.
speaker2: i offered my losing cases in exchange for two or three of anyone else's possible convictions. they couldn't handle their workloads, and i prefer not to lose.
speaker1: you're going to need a middle initial.

speaker1: sir? 
speaker2: you're going to wooton sims.
speaker1: in two weeks.
speaker2: you'll be able to afford a better suit. but those guys all play squash and have middle names. they go in for the mother's maiden name a lot.
speaker1: my mother didn't have a maiden name.
speaker2: so you're a bastard; sometimes i can be a son-of-a-bitch. maybe you belong here.
speaker1: i didn't work this hard to stay where i belong.
speaker2: you're a street-fighter, willy. you should be in court. we can move you up to better cases.
speaker1: i appreciate the offer.
speaker2: i didn't think so. well - you got your litigation experience. your chops. and your juicy private sector job. anything else the city of los angeles can do for you?

speaker1: no, i think that's everything - thank you. 
speaker2: the offer stands. if you get tired of carrying a spear.
speaker2: it's an opera joke. give my regards to bob.

speaker1: i've got an attempted homicide. conley caught it last night, but he's hung up in motions with gardner. arraignment in part seven, at three o'clock. 
speaker2: three o'clock is in fifteen minutes.
speaker1: thank you. what's the temperature?

speaker1: i can't do it. 
speaker2: you do still actually work here, willy, right? i mean, you're still going to be cashing your paycheck for another two weeks and everything?
speaker1: just get somebody else for this one.
speaker2: everybody's booked up. look: it's not going to trial. there's a weapon with prints, and a confession. take the arraignment and wait for the plea.
speaker1: a real confession?
speaker2: spontaneous and signed. come on, willy.
speaker1: okay. here's the problem.

speaker1: mr. slocum. nice to see a man who dresses for court. 
speaker2: sorry, your honor. long story.
speaker1: grapevine has it the punch-line is wooton sims.
speaker2: yes, ma'am.
speaker1: good for you, double-oh-seven. let's see what public service is offering you by way of a send-off:
speaker3: the state of california versus thomas crawford.
speaker4: mr. crawford, you've been charged with section 664 slash 187 of the california penal code: attempted murder, with additional allegations of assault with a deadly weapon - penal code section 245 dash a2, with great bodily injury, p.c. section 12022.07. do you waive further reading of the complaint and complete statement of rights?

speaker1: and do you wish to enter a plea at this time? 
speaker2: not guilty. but i also want to waive my right to counsel, and represent myself.
speaker1: do you have a problem with your appointed counsel, mr. crawford?
speaker2: no. i just want to do it myself. i believe it's within my rights.
speaker3: your honor, if i could have a moment with my client -
speaker2: i'm not your client. try and keep up, would you?
speaker1: do the people have an objection or a comment for the record, mr. slocum?
speaker4: i'm sorry, your honor: we've got the weapon and a signed confession. i really think mr. crawford needs a competent attorney to - frankly - negotiate a plea.

speaker1: i - can't - this was supposed to be - with a pro se defendant, this is going to drag out for months - and i'm not even going to be here. the people request a continuance to - 
speaker2: excuse me? your honor? i'm willing to waive my right to a preliminary hearing and go directly to a jury trial. does that help?
speaker3: you don't need to look out for mr. slocum, mr. crawford. the district attorney's office can shift another prosecutor to the case -
speaker2: no, i like mr. slocum.
speaker4: mr. slocum? he likes you.
speaker1: terrific.
speaker4: mr. crawford seems to understand his rights and responsibilities.
speaker1: all due respect, your honor, i'm worried this may turn into some sort of a - circus -
speaker4: i appreciate your concern for the dignity of my courtroom, mr. slocum - considering you're making the argument dressed as a game-show host. unfortunately, the man is a tax-paying citizen, entitled by our constitution to try and manipulate the legal system, like everybody else.

speaker1: i understand. thank you. 
speaker2: are the people ready to go to trial without a preliminary hearing?
speaker3: sure. why not.

speaker1: you're supposed to be good. 
speaker2: is that what i'm supposed to be?
speaker1: i asked around. you're supposed to be top-notch - but to me it looks like you've got one foot out the door, and you're wiping the rest of us off the bottom of the other one.
speaker2: i'm sorry to...disappoint you.
speaker1: i took crawford's confession.
speaker2: and now you want mine?

speaker1: i'm here to warn you. take this seriously, because it's serious. this guy is stone cold - and his wife - is lying in a hospital bed - with brain damage... 
speaker2: are you all right?
speaker1: are you gonna be on this, or what?
speaker2: yeah. i'm on it. you got a confession. you took the gun out of his hand. it's done.
speaker1: i'm just - telling you. is that okay?
speaker2: no. it's okay.
speaker1: forget it.

speaker1: sorry? 
speaker2: you've been circling the lobby for half-an-hour now, like if you stopped you'd die.
speaker1: if i stopped, i'd be standing around with no one to talk to. at which point, death would be a relief.
speaker2: why don't you talk to bob?
speaker1: "bob" is talking to the governor. do i know you?
speaker2: nikki gardner. senior associate, wooton sims.
speaker1: oh - hey, hi. it was your office that called, with the invitation.
speaker2: on bob's orders.
speaker1: listen, i don't...actually know "bob." i mean, i've only met the man once.
speaker2: interesting.
speaker2: you like opera?

speaker1: truth is, i haven't really had that much expos- 
speaker2: neither do i.

speaker1: bob assigned you to my team. i'll supervise your case-work, steer you through the office arcana, and generally keep an eye on you. 
speaker2: kind of like a mentor.
speaker1: kind of like a probation officer.
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: wooton sims expects absolute loyalty and a hundred-and-ten-percent performance. but: you get to work on legendary litigation. national, sometimes global, in scope. it's high- stakes. and cut-throat - even within the team. we burn out associates at an astonishing rate.
speaker2: you're trying to scare me.
speaker1: yes.
speaker2: you're going to have to try harder.

speaker1: can i ask you something personal? 
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker1: we have a guy in our criminal division, fresh out of yale, named calvin tyler. one of our very rich clients gets pulled over, d.u.i. - which is routine bullshit, so calvin gets it. against you. next thing we know, calvin is fired, and bob wooton, who has never even interviewed a junior associate before - let alone hired one - says you're on my team.
speaker2: it was a good bust, so calvin came to me for a deal. i told him if he could arrange an interview for me with mr. wooton, i would throw the case. i laid out his arguments and evidence for him - and i showed him how i would lose. calvin set up my appointment for the day after our court date. then he did what i had suggested in court - and i wiped the floor with him. your client got the maximum. next day, i met with mr. wooton. bob.
speaker1: wow. you know what's brilliant about that?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: you didn't actually do anything all that wrong. 
speaker2: well - i wasn't entirely honest with calvin.
speaker1: you gonna get that?
speaker2: everyone i need to talk to is here.
speaker1: we need to talk about your transition timetable.
speaker2: all right.
speaker1: bob believes in trial-by-fire. he wants you up-to-speed two weeks from tuesday, because we're getting on a plane to chicago for depositions in a class-action against our biggest client, armstead pharmaceutical.
speaker2: no problem.
speaker1: that's catch-up on three years' work - and you haven't closed out your old job yet.
speaker2: i'm good at trials. even by fire.
speaker1: you know, a little bit of fear can be a very healthy thing to have.

speaker1: i'm looking forward to when i can afford the luxury of having some. 
speaker2: i'll have them put the armstead materials in your new office.
speaker1: thanks. boss.

speaker1: marchand. 
speaker2: it's slocum. what's up?
speaker1: your gun in that palisades shooting is no good.
speaker2: how can the gun be "no good"?
speaker1: it's a perfectly good weapon. a heckler and koch nine-millimeter. it's just no good as evidence. it's never been fired.
speaker2: it's the gun from the scene?

speaker1: yep. bought by mr. thomas crawford and registered to his wife, about a month ago. apparently a gift. 
speaker2: and between the shooting and arrest, this guy was locked inside his house.
speaker1: is that a question?
speaker2: no, i mean, just: what's the point? playing games with the gun. he's alone in the house with the victim, and he confessed - it's not like the gun's gonna get him off the hook.
speaker1: do you have a question i can answer?
speaker2: look, our weapon is in that house somewhere. get a team out to search it tomorrow morning.
speaker1: ya think?
speaker2: thank you.

speaker1: yeah. 
speaker2: where do you want it?
speaker1: the idea here is we're trying to take boxes out - not bring more in.
speaker2: is that the idea?
speaker1: whoa - wait a second, this is a screw- up. i already have these documents. i sent this box: to the defendant, at county.
speaker2: i picked up at county. slip says bring 'em here.

speaker1: where are we on this gun? 
speaker2: we can't find it, willy.
speaker1: i'm in trial on monday.
speaker2: i know. i don't know what to tell you. i'm there now.
speaker1: you said you'd get a team out a week ago -
speaker2: i'm here now. my team has been here twice already. do you really need it?
speaker1: do i need it?! the weapon?!
speaker1: i don't know. probably not.
speaker2: he went pro se, right?
speaker1: yeah. just when you think they're not really stupid, they defend themselves.
speaker2: you've got a confession and an airtight bunch of circumstantial. we've gone over this place top-to- bottom three times now, willy.
speaker1: yeah, okay. don't worry about it. sorry - got a lot going on.

speaker1: must be rough, figuring out what you're gonna do with all that money. 
speaker2: hey, i had to sit through an opera last week.
speaker1: oh gee - lemme see if i can express how much sympathy i have: marchand snaps his phone shut.

speaker1: how's my wife? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i heard somewhere, i think it was on n.p.r., that you're supposed to talk to people in a coma. play their favorite music. supposedly it reaches them.
speaker1: you represent jennifer. the voice of the victim, judicially speaking. but you haven't gone to see her?

speaker1: not yet. 
speaker2: too busy getting up to speed on armstead pharmaceutical?
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: i'm not judging you. i think anyone - coming from...what you came from - then paying your way through east-okie cowshit college and tulsa law by writing papers for princeton kids on the internet - my it must have eaten your liver! sixty-thousand dollars in debt, eighty-four percent conviction rate: you deserve this.
speaker1: what the have you been doing.
speaker2: i'm permitted the use of a private investigator.
speaker1: not to investigate me!
speaker2: why not? you're investigating me.
speaker1: you shot your wife.
speaker2: allegedly. that's how it works, right? if i can't introduce something in court as evidence - it doesn't exist. legally.
speaker1: look - i don't want to play games with you.
speaker2: i'm afraid you have to.

speaker1: is this some form of - communication? 
speaker2: you sent me a box of papers.
speaker1: it's called discovery. the state has a legal obliga-
speaker2: there's nothing in it, willy. you haven't 'discovered' anything. have you found the gun?
speaker1: not yet.
speaker2: no. does it bother you that i call you willy?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: i'd like you to consider becoming my lawyer. i'll pay you. a lot of money.
speaker1: i'm - prosecuting you.
speaker2: yeah, but i'm offering you a chance to get on the right side of this whole mess while you still can.
speaker1: are you out of your mind?

speaker1: i think - on advice of counsel - i'll decline to answer that one. 
speaker2: i don't need the gun to convict you, by the way.
speaker1: she was cheating, you know.
speaker2: it doesn't matter what she did...tom.
speaker1: perhaps. but - maybe my so-called peers will look at me and see themselves. betrayed. frustrated. humiliated. and you and i both know, willy, that people have an infinite capacity for believing in their own innocence.
speaker2: great. take the stand. tell your story. i'd appreciate it.
speaker1: not to mention the fact you have no actual evidence connecting me to the crime.
speaker2: except your confession.
speaker1: my grandfather was an egg farmer.

speaker1: is this gonna be about how you had a rough childhood? 
speaker2: i used to candle eggs at his farm. you know what that is? you hold an egg up to a light, and look for imperfections. the first time i did it, he told me to put the ones that were cracked or flawed in a bucket - for the bakery. he came back an hour later and there were three hundred eggs in the bakery bucket. he asked me what the i was doing. i found a flaw in every single one. thin places in the shell, minuscule cracks. look closely enough and you'll find everything has a weak spot...where it can break.
speaker1: looking for mine?
speaker2: no, i've found yours.
speaker1: illuminate me.
speaker2: you're a winner, willy.
speaker1: huh. well. joke's on me then, i guess.
speaker2: yes. it is.
speaker1: i'll see you in court, mr. crawford.

speaker1: make sure you sign the one with the devil in blood. it's not binding otherwise. 
speaker2: just want to be ready for chicago. i'm all closed-out, downtown. last trial starts monday.
speaker1: you've got a trial monday?
speaker2: yeah: attempted murder.
speaker1: that gives you three days. you told me - and i told bob - that you would be ready to hit the ground r-
speaker2: the man confessed. and he's pro se.
speaker1: willy, some but acting as his own lawyer - he could drag it out for months!
speaker2: you want to hear his witness list?

speaker1: no witnesses? 
speaker2: it's kind of clever: this guy is trying to provoke the system into declaring him insane. i think he thinks we'll call in the doctors and he can fake 'em out by refusing the defense. he's acting out this really - organized plan to appear crazy.
speaker1: you're gonna miss being in court, aren't you?
speaker2: i'm almost halfway through these. and i think i've already found about six disqualifiers in delaware, ohio, and florida. i have to check case law in each state, but it looks good. i'll get the rest done over the long weekend.
speaker1: you don't go home for thanksgiving?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: if you want - you're welcome at mine.

speaker1: really? 
speaker2: i think it would be interesting.
speaker1: yeah. okay, thank you.
speaker2: cool.

speaker1: we established a perimeter around the house and then waited for swat and the negotiator. it was strictly by the book. 
speaker2: so the house was completely surrounded within how long of the first shots?
speaker1: maybe ten minutes.
speaker2: and when you arrived at the sc-
speaker3: sorry.

speaker1: when you arrived on the scene, was there a crowd? 
speaker2: oh yeah. neighbors, came out to look soon as it started.
speaker1: and from what you could ascertain, no one went into or came out of the house until swat and the negotiator arrived?
speaker2: definitely not.
speaker1: thank you. no further questions.
speaker3: mr. crawford?
speaker4: what?
speaker3: your witness, mr. crawford.
speaker4: no questions for this witness.

speaker1: - through the frontal cortex and the temporal lobe, coming to rest against the back of the skull. 
speaker2: so this bullet inflicted serious injury?
speaker1: it inflicted serious and irreparable injury.
speaker2: dr. kang, is it safe to say that someone inflicting this kind of wound intended to kill?
speaker3: mr. crawford, you might want to object. the witness can't know your state of mind.
speaker4: no thank you, your honor.
speaker5: i would say so, yes.
speaker2: thank you, dr. kang. crawford tears off the page, starts another.

speaker1: he confessed to shooting his wife. 
speaker2: he confessed. did mr. crawford appear confused or in any way intoxicated, impaired?
speaker1: no. not at all. he knew what was going on.
speaker2: what did mr. crawford say?
speaker1: he said, "i got the gun and i shot my wife. help me, i shot her in the head. i know it was wrong."
speaker3: objection.
speaker4: i'm sorry - mr. crawford, did you say something?
speaker3: yes. i want to object.
speaker4: on what grounds?
speaker3: i don't know.
speaker2: your honor -
speaker3: i don't know what you'd call it. they - it wasn't the first time, either, but - i don't know the legal term.

speaker1: why don't you just explain it in layman's terms. 
speaker2: the victim.
speaker1: mr. crawford -
speaker2: you said layman's terms -
speaker3: your honor -
speaker2: i'm sorry - what would you call it - legally - when the officer who arrested you has been having sexual with your wife?
speaker3: oh -
speaker2: i think it's objectionable - maybe i'm wrong.
speaker3: your honor...
speaker1: detective nunally?
speaker2: rob?
speaker3: your honor, the people request a -

speaker1: he had my witness list. he should have filed to suppress. 
speaker2: my mistake. sorry.
speaker3: mr. crawford, i warned you about representing yourself.
speaker2: what about the fact that it's true? i mean, isn't that the point here: to get to the truth?
speaker3: mr. slocum - is it true?
speaker1: i don't know. i only heard about it five minutes ago.
speaker2: put him back on the witness stand if you don't believe me.
speaker1: we can't put him back on now! not after what the jury just saw. your honor, i told you this would turn into a circus. first he provokes the witness with an outrageous allegation -
speaker2: my has evidence.
speaker3: excuse me?
speaker2: my investigator. i call him i guess i should call him as a rebuttal

speaker1: okay - um: i'll stipulate that my witness was less than forthcoming ...and that can more or less cancel out the fact that the defendant withheld a crucial - 
speaker2: mr. slocum - your witness was intimate with the victim, and he assaulted the defendant during the arrest.
speaker3: actually, while obtaining my so-called "confession."
speaker1: no way. your honor -
speaker2: he's got a point. they were alone in the house. the confession is no good.
speaker1: oh - come on!
speaker3: is this a legal argument? "oh come on"?
speaker1: you want to get into it?!
speaker1: sorry. he dictated and signed his confession, after that incident.

speaker1: in police custody. arguably, in fear for his life. i'm sorry, mr. slocum - it's all 'fruit of the tainted tree.' we have to exclude all versions of the confession and any evidence collected by lieutenant nunally or by other police officers on the night he was present. 
speaker2: this is insane!
speaker3: it's biblical, isn't it? the fruit and the tree and -
speaker2: he set this up! don't you see what he's doing?!
speaker1: yes, i do. and i don't like it. but it's done, so we have to deal with it.
speaker3: do you think i could go home today, your honor? with thanksgiving around the corner -
speaker1: don't push it, mr. crawford. what we're going to do is give mr. slocum a few days to regroup and come up with new evidence. if he doesn't - then you can go home. that's going to put us into the long weekend. we reconvene monday morning.

speaker1: well - you've gotta admire the cleverness of it. 
speaker2: do i?

speaker1: come on, - give the devil his due. 
speaker2: yeah. i'm just trying to figure out what that is.

speaker1: no. 
speaker2: well, he pretty much has to if he's gonna save any face. so here's the strategy: you let him.
speaker1: i let him?

speaker1: but we've got to move fast and get out from under. otherwise, and i quote: "stick a fork in this kid's and turn him over, he's done." 
speaker2: i can't just - walk away.
speaker1: willy: today, you got killed. the issue now is saving your new life.
speaker2: i guess...that would be the smart way of looking at it.

speaker1: you want to come out and get drunk? 
speaker2: no. thank you. i've got some stuff to take care of.
speaker1: all right. don't beat yourself up.
speaker2: i won't.
speaker3: you don't look into who the victim was sleeping with?
speaker2: he - threw me off. look, crawford knew he'd be the prime suspect, so he gave us everything - but he made it all radioactive. the night this went down, it was over.
speaker3: but you still walked it into court, willy. we might not have a case...but it didn't have to be a public humiliation for this office and the police department.

speaker1: are you taking me off? 
speaker2: you're leaving anyway.
speaker1: i'm starting to get a sense of this guy.
speaker2: that's not new evidence.
speaker1: i can take him now: he thinks he's smarter than i am.
speaker2: it's not about you, willy.
speaker1: yeah, it is. he made it that way. he likes me.
speaker2: what is that - some kind of oklahoma insult?
speaker1: let me do this. i won't make you look bad.
speaker2: no. you won't. that's what i need to make sure you understand. i remove you now: i'm covered, i took some action. if you go on with this, when you lose - blame has to come down. and it'll come down on you. i'll have to investigate you for improprieties, incompetence - anything i can. in public. i'll hang you out to dry. for the good of this office.
speaker1: if i lose.

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: you said "when." lobruto grimaces. he shakes his head. sighs.
speaker1: all right. it's yours.

speaker1: you're not easy to find. i had to call internal affairs. 
speaker2: yeah - they put me on a desk - 'til this gets...sorted out.
speaker2: got home - my wife already took the kids to her folks. press is all over our front lawn. friggin' vampires.
speaker1: what the were you thinking. you're on the job and you get called to your girlfriend's house -

speaker1: i didn't know it was her house. i'd never been there. 
speaker2: it was her name!
speaker1: i didn't know her name!
speaker1: no last names. her rules. we met at the same hotel room, twice a week - no phone calls, no questions. she didn't want us to know too much about each other. she said it was like...travel in a foreign country. no baggage - from our lives. just us. escaping.
speaker2: did you get the feeling she had rules because she had done it before? with other guys?
speaker1: no. i don't know. maybe. no. it was all just this...crazy thing. for both of us. it was... real. you know? we didn't expect that, when we started. we didn't know where it was going. i had cheated so many times, i was numb - but she was ...new. and she made me feel like there was - some chance. to change. we were scared. it was like we were afraid to go forward, but we couldn't go back. you always think you have time. to work it out. or make things right. what was i supposed to do?!
speaker2: you were supposed to tell me!
speaker1: i'm married! i have kids!

speaker1: you thought nobody knew - so maybe you could just walk away clean. 
speaker2: no! i didn't think he knew! okay?! even - after. i thought it was just - massively fouled-up...bad luck. like - - telling me - something. i'm there. my mind is going crazy. i know the confession won't hold if anyone finds out. i thought the guy was a whack!
speaker1: yeah? well, he's not.
speaker1: is there anything else you can give me. anything that might get us some evidence.
speaker2: i...tried to warn you.
speaker1: you warned me he was smart. you didn't warn me you were stupid.
speaker2: how do we get the confession back in?
speaker1: we don't.
speaker2: what are you gonna do?

speaker1: shake the boxes. 
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: the cereal boxes - shake 'em. and there's a chicken in the freezer. thaw it out, check inside.

speaker1: the garage? washer-dryer? 
speaker2: and the tool shed, and the roof, and the h.v.a.c. ducts.
speaker1: what about the door frames? the floors?
speaker2: what did he do: rip open a door frame, hide the gun inside and re-plaster the wall before swat showed up?
speaker1: what about the neighbors' property? he could have thrown it over the hedges.
speaker2: we checked. he might have passed it off to somebody, willy. had an accomplice, waiting, out the back.

speaker1: this isn't an accomplice sort of guy. 
speaker1: this is a...guy who likes to show off.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: i'm sure.
speaker1: it's a physical object. it can't just vanish. we're missing something - some step in the story.
speaker1: the neighbor sees her get home. he's already inside. she lets herself in. a minute or two later: blood-pattern says she's standing over there - he's somewhere around here.
speaker1: boom.
speaker2: but then he carries her back there. why?

speaker1: because he's gonna need time. to confess. when she's alone with the cop. 
speaker2: neighbor comes to the door.
speaker1: crawford shouts, "leave us alone" and fires three more rounds: boom-boom- boom.
speaker2: so everybody knows he's dangerous - and she might still be alive.
speaker1: so they'll call the negotiator. now he's got about ten minutes.
speaker2: i'm sorry, willy.

speaker1: and grind on for miles across weirdish wild space, headed i fear, toward a most useless place. 
speaker1: the waiting place... for people just waiting. waiting for a train to go or a bus to come, or a plane to go
speaker1: or the mail to come, or the rain to go or the phone to ring, or the snow to snow

speaker1: waiting for the fish to bite or waiting for wind to fly a kite or waiting around for friday night or waiting perhaps for their uncle jake 
speaker1: or a pot to boil, or a better break or a string of pearls, or a pair of pants or a wig with curls... or another chance.
speaker2: what are you doing?
speaker1: i heard it might - help - if somebody talked to her.
speaker2: who told you that?
speaker1: the man who shot her.

speaker1: is there any chance...she might come out of this? 
speaker2: are you a member of the family?
speaker1: sorry. i'm with the district attorney's office. we don't have any other witnesses.
speaker2: this woman had a bullet plow through her brain.
speaker1: i know. but you hear about people waking up from comas. after everybody said pull the plug - they wake up. you hear stuff like that all the time.
speaker2: you hear about elvis and aliens, too.
speaker1: it's not impossible, though. is it? i mean - why else are you keeping her like this?
speaker2: no. it's not impossible. but even if she did, she might not remember how to talk - let alone anything about how she was shot.
speaker1: when i was here alone before, she moved a little.
speaker2: are you just going to keep asking the same question in different ways until you hear the answer you want?

speaker1: that's how it works with the law. 
speaker2: i knew i should have gone to law school.

speaker1: so this is all exactly how he left it. 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: and he was - distraught.
speaker2: he was drinking. the past few weeks.
speaker1: but he was working on this.
speaker1: all distraught and everything.
speaker2: do you want coffee. he said i should ask.

speaker1: how long do you keep the tapes? 
speaker2: a month.
speaker1: can i get a copy of october 9th?
speaker2: i'll have it for you friday.
speaker1: i'm kind of under the gun here.
speaker2: we're short-staffed tonight and tomorrow.
speaker2: thanksgiving?
speaker1: right. okay.

speaker1: white or dark, willy? 
speaker2: anything is fine, your honor.
speaker1: i'm off-duty, you can call me lew.
speaker2: so - is everyone in this family involved in the law?
speaker3: well, nikki's not.
speaker4: ha ha. burton's a counsel for sierra club, and sandra's aclu - so they use the holidays as an opportunity to give me a hard time, because i can buy and sell them.
speaker3: we're not actually for sale, nick.
speaker1: nicole decided early-on that black sheep was the most effective role in which to distinguish herself from her siblings.

speaker1: you know of any other family in america where the corporate lawyer who's going to make partner by thirty- five is the "black sheep"? 
speaker2: well - you may be lost beyond recovery, but maybe we can still convince that defending giant corporations against injured citizens is not the best use of his skills.
speaker3: i don't think so, sir. it's where the money is.
speaker2: i believe that phrase refers to banks. and it was coined by a thief.
speaker3: times have changed.
speaker1: you don't have to do this.
speaker3: i don't mind; i get this kind of thing now and then. almost always from people with money.
speaker2: appearances can be deceiving, willy. i grew up with eight brothers and sisters on a farm up in fresno, and i promise you i saw my share of hard times.
speaker3: my mom od'd fairly frequently, so they put me in a group home. my younger sister is dead and my older brother is doing twenty-five-to-life.

speaker1: you win. beat. looks down, begins to eat again. 
speaker2: i usually do.
speaker1: yes. i see that.
speaker3: i don't know if you will against the wife-shooter, though.
speaker4: whoops.
speaker5: nice, burton.
speaker2: it's not over 'til it's over.
speaker3: that looked pretty over.
speaker5: anyway, willy's been taken off the case.
speaker1: it might not seem like it now, but that's a blessing in disguise, willy.
speaker2: i wasn't.
speaker5: what?

speaker1: taken off. 
speaker2: that...doesn't make any sense. lobruto has to do some kind of damage control -
speaker1: i asked him not to.
speaker2: you are really stupid, did you know that?
speaker1: i'm - getting new evidence -
speaker2: where? the evidence store?! oh, that's right - they open early the day after thanksgiving. you're gonna be fine!
speaker1: did it ever occur to you i might be good enough to still win?!
speaker2: who cares?!
speaker1: the man shot his -
speaker2: you wanted corporate, right?! you wanted to play in the big leagues?!
speaker1: yeah, i'm just -
speaker2: you go to all that trouble getting yourself in - and then you just pay no attention to wh-

speaker1: look - i'm sorry - can we not talk about this here?! 
speaker2: fine.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: i need to talk with you.

speaker1: look, i'm sorry i didn't tell you - 
speaker2: did you hear me, when i said bob wanted you gone as soon as this thing broke?! did you hear me say i went out on a limb to convince him -
speaker1: wouldn't it be better than damage control if i actually turn it around?
speaker2: and what if you don't?
speaker2: you don't get it at all, do you?! you pulled a stunt to get yourself this job. fine: you're a hot-shot! wooton sims does not need hot-shots. because you don't win. the firm wins.

speaker1: what am i supposed to do? 
speaker2: we told the man you're getting on a plane to chicago, tuesday.
speaker1: yeah. okay.
speaker1: i think maybe i'm gonna go now.
speaker2: all right. call if you want.
speaker1: i've got some work to do. i need to call a cab.
speaker3: you know what nobody understands about certain kinds of underpaid public service work? now and then you get to put a stake in a bad guy's heart. we're not supposed to talk about that when we visit a third-grade class on career day, and it doesn't get you very far into the country-club locker room - but it's hard to beat when you actually get to do it.

speaker1:  
speaker1: the are you doing here?
speaker2: we need to talk.
speaker2: we have to find the gun.
speaker1: thank you, professor einstein. it would also be good to find a couple of

speaker1: no - willy: we need to find the gun. 
speaker2: i've had three different teams here -
speaker1: he didn't leave between the shooting and when we took him out in cuffs. the gun is here. so we have to find it.
speaker2: well - we can't! you want to move on?
speaker1: there's a guy in the evidence room, owes me a favor. well - it's not so much a favor as i know stuff about him. he can trade this for the bullet from jennifer, give us a ballistic match.
speaker2: it's a crime.
speaker1: so who's gonna get away with a crime - this asshole, or us?
speaker2: go home.
speaker1: what else have you got?!
speaker2: i'll find a way.

speaker1: willy. there's nothing here. 
speaker2: guns don't just walk out of crime scenes.
speaker1: two months before he shot his wife, this guy had his investigator watching the cop at work. he knew exactly how it would go down - and he didn't leave any loose ends.
speaker2: then what is this:
speaker2: hotel surveillance. from that day. he was there. why?
speaker1: had to see it for himself.
speaker2: see what? they were out at the pool.
speaker1: the unmade bed. her panties. man's gonna shoot his wife in the head, he needs to get himself all worked up.

speaker1: yeah. worked up. 
speaker2: willy, go home. tomorrow you go back into court and take your lumps - then you start your cushy new life, and you forget all about this one. and then you can lend me money and

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: yeah. maybe. can i ask you to do something for me this morning?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: write down your cell number. once my trial is in session, wait outside. i might call - and just hang up. if i do, i want you to come into court and whisper to me that we got a tip about the murder weapon.
speaker1: you found it?

speaker1: i haven't decided yet. 
speaker2: oh: this came for you.

speaker1: so - between the time you heard the first gunshot and called 911, and the time of mr. crawford's arrest - you had the crawford house in view? 
speaker2: yes. i was very concerned about jennifer. she was a lovely woman.
speaker1: no one but thomas crawford came in or out?
speaker2: that's correct.
speaker1: thank you, mr. gifford. no further questions.
speaker3: mr. crawford?
speaker4: did you see the guy run out the back door?
speaker2: what..."guy"?
speaker4: the other guy. the one who shot my wife. did you see him run out the back of the house, carrying the gun?

speaker1: i couldn't see the back of the house. i believe...the police went around back when they arrived. 
speaker2: no further questions.
speaker3: re-direct, your honor.
speaker2: i've also written a motion to dismiss.
speaker3: objection - i'm on re-direct!
speaker4: on what grounds, mr. crawford?
speaker2: the prosecutor doesn't have any actual evidence.
speaker3: i'm in the middle of presenting -
speaker2: all of his witnesses are going to testify to the same facts: that my wife was shot and that i was, tragically, in the house at the time ...a witness - and, in a way, a victim myself. i'll stipulate to mr. slocum's entire witness list right now, a request a directed verdict or dismissal, per california versus collier, 1982, and the appellate court decision, v. watrus, 486.19.

speaker1: your legal skills seem to have improved over the long weekend, mr. crawford. 
speaker2: mr. slocum?
speaker2: have you got any new evidence?
speaker3: may i have a moment, your honor? the judge nods.
speaker2: mr. slocum?

speaker1: your honor? can we signal the 
speaker2: mr. slocum? now or never. won't look up. nunally stares, agonized.
speaker3: i have no further evidence at this time, your honor. crawford begins to smile.

speaker1: motion to dismiss is granted. 
speaker1: order! the jury is released, with our apologies -
speaker1: - and the defendant is free to go.
speaker2: even a broken clock gets to be right twice a day. he winks, and heads up the aisle.

speaker1: hey, you. 
speaker2: hey.
speaker1: what did you think - i wasn't keeping tabs?
speaker2: i don't know what i thought.
speaker1: listen: what do you say i take you out tonight and get you completely trashed? tomorrow's just a travel da- - there's a gun shot outside the courtroom.
speaker2: hang on -

speaker1: she was looking at me. 
speaker2: yeah, i understand -
speaker1: no, she was looking at me.

speaker1: she's reacting. 
speaker1: you see?
speaker2: the normal reflex goes downward. up indicates brain trauma.
speaker1: she's in there. she was looking at me.

speaker1: sometimes we have to tape their eyes shut. they all move - they make sounds, they twitch. you think they're dreaming. but they're not. it's just what's left of the system, sending broken signals. 
speaker2: can we do other tests? like an m.r.i. or something? and i want a coma specialist to see her.
speaker1: you're not authorized to order tes-
speaker2: i'll get you authorization. first thing tomorrow.
speaker1: you get the paperwork, i'll do what i can.

speaker1: mr. slocum. 
speaker2: just...visiting.
speaker1: this isn't like you at all.
speaker2: no?

speaker1: you haven't got anything to gain. 
speaker2: oh - right. that's my weak spot. ever think about what yours might be?
speaker1: of course i have. the truth about me is, willy...i'm really not very nice.
speaker2: you sure do know a lot, though. got everybody all figured out, everything set up, like one of your contraptions. then you just sit back and watch it all fall right where you want it to. must be kind of...boring. at that point.
speaker1: not an ounce of sympathy, willy? imagine it - imagine she was yours. and you knew you were losing her. imagine days. weeks. going through her desk. her purse. her closet. alone. staring at her clothes. her shoes. knowing this is what it will be like. after. do you have any idea how hard it was to go on living - with her - every day, knowing?
speaker2: but you had to, right? you needed time to set it all up...your "crime of passion."
speaker1: there are many kinds of passion, willy.

speaker1: yeah. there are. so - thank you. 
speaker1: for sharing your wisdom. all your little helpful bits of information. you were right.
speaker2: about...?
speaker1: talking to her.

speaker1: hi, i'm just - 
speaker1: excuse me - i'm new, i just started - and there's something wrong with my card. can you buzz me in?
speaker2: who are you here to see?
speaker1: i work here. slocum. i'm new - he stops, realizing how he must look.

speaker1: nikki gardner. slocum, for nikki gardner. 
speaker1: wait a second - never mind, here she is, thank you.
speaker1: hey...bob -
speaker1: you let him know what happened last night?
speaker2: i told him.
speaker1: great - who do i work with on it while you're gone?
speaker2: you don't work with anyone.
speaker1: nikki: the man has power-of-attorney and a health-care proxy, he can disconnect her life-support whenever he wants. if we don't move fast -
speaker2: willy, wake up! it's over! what is wrong with you - it's first year law: that woman could fully recover and swear he shot her and it

speaker1: i told you - we bring a civil suit - 
speaker2: you've got no standing.
speaker1: it doesn't have to stick: we just need to get a court order for now - to keep crawford from pulling the plug! with all the brain-power here, i'm sure somebody can come up with a pretext or call in a favor. then we can tie this up in court while we arrange a state- appointed conservatorship - so we can protect her while we fight him on -
speaker2: what's the point, willy?
speaker1: the point?!
speaker1: this man is going to kill his wife.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker2: i warned you.
speaker1: no, this is insane.
speaker2: it's what it is.

speaker1: i warned you. 
speaker2: you're not really just gonna let this happen, are you?!
speaker1: oh i'm supposed to lose my job over your problems?!
speaker2: my problems?! wait a second - this is not about my anything any more -
speaker2: this is about taking a couple of weeks off to try and save a woman's life!
speaker2: don't bother. i got it.

speaker1: what do the doctors say? 
speaker2: people wake up out of these things.
speaker1: what did the doctors say, mr. slocum?
speaker2: they said...there's no way to really know. i'm trying to get them to run more tests - but i was there, and i'm telling you.

speaker1: i'm sorry - but nobody else seems to give a that sooner or later this guy is gonna finish what he started. 
speaker2: have you been home at all today, willy?

speaker1: no - i've been trying to get some- 
speaker2: there's a court order out against you.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: a restraining order. you were at the hospital? talking to her doctors?
speaker2: crawford hired a lawyer this time.
speaker1: against me.
speaker2: you need to stay away from him, and his wife, and the hospital. he can have you arrested if you don't. i'm sorry. i can't help you. i told you how it would go.
speaker1: can you do anything for her?
speaker2: i don't see how.

speaker1: can i use your fax machine? 
speaker2: these have to be served in person.

speaker1: you just missed her. 
speaker2: what?
speaker1: she just went on up.
speaker2: how long ago...did she die?
speaker1: what? the roof.

speaker1: he's - moving her by helicopter? 
speaker2: nothing but the best. we hear the surge of a jet engine - - as runs out of the room.

speaker1: this orders him not to take her off life support! he's not! we can't stop the man from - 
speaker2: then just hold it - for a couple of hours! have it inspected!

speaker1: you're talking about a phenomenally expensive delay, mr. slocum - when the man has every right to move his wife! 
speaker2: she's not gonna get there!
speaker2: this man is a mechanical engineer with expertise in air crashes! he has access to airfields and he knows exactly how to make it look like an accident! you know what he did! you know why she's like this! lunt hesitates, feeling a tiny edge of doubt.

speaker1: why are we going out over the ocean? 
speaker2: less traffic.

speaker1: we have to turn back! 
speaker2: get in your seat!
speaker1: he's doing something - we have to turn back!
speaker2: who's doing something?
speaker1: he is! you have to get us down!
speaker2: get back in your seat!
speaker3: willy, i'm not doing anything.
speaker1: i'm telling you, we have to turn back! he's doing someth- an alarm begins to shriek - on the ventilator.
speaker1: what's happening?!
speaker4: i don't know - i'm - there's a - malfunction -

speaker1: i can't do anything with this, up here. 
speaker2: she's d.n.r.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker2: check.
speaker3: what?
speaker1: she's do not resuscitate.
speaker2: it's in her living will.
speaker1: she's d.n.r. she signed it.
speaker3: there's a restraining order - she's protected - i'm authorizing you to do it!
speaker2: no extraordinary measures. unless your court order specifies

speaker1: wait! wait - look! 
speaker1: yes. yes.
speaker1: you messed up. with all your plans and games.
speaker1: shhhh. it's okay. it's all right.
speaker1: you're gonna be okay? she squeezes his hand. very weakly. crawford is looking daggers: die,
speaker1: jennifer? hang on.

speaker1: jennifer?! jennifer?! 
speaker1: no. come on, jennifer. fight back.
speaker1: don't let go.
speaker2: you pushed it, willy. we didn't have to be here. but now you're my witness. you saw: i didn't touch anything, i didn't do anything. the machine went down. anybody asks - you'll have to tell them. what you saw. that's really kind of perfect, isn't it?

speaker1: you're not answering your phone. 
speaker2: that's kind of an answer in itself, isn't it?
speaker1: where are you headed?
speaker2: haven't decided yet. just someplace else.
speaker1: i shouldn't have let it get so far out of control. we all lose, willy.
speaker2: yep.
speaker1: we just have to live with that, and keep fighting the good fight.
speaker2: that's not what i was doing.
speaker1: you belong in a courtroom.
speaker2: i need to - get to know myself better.
speaker1: you're a good lawyer. all this may have even made you a better lawyer. don't waste it.

speaker1: i didn't just lose a case! i let a man get away with murder. 
speaker2: if it makes you feel any better - technically, you let a man get away with attempted murder. doesn't respond. keeps packing. lobruto goes out.

speaker1: his wife is dead! 
speaker1: we can still get him. we can take him back to court.
speaker2: willy... comes toward him - excited, insistent:
speaker1: double jeopardy doesn't apply! we bring a new charge - of homicide.
speaker2: - what happened to you, on the helicopter - we don't even know if we could prove -

speaker1: no: he shot her and she died. the fact that it took time - the fact that he went to trial in between, just for shooting her - doesn't matter. he fired a gun and caused her death, and that's murder. if he can twist the law around - then so can we. 
speaker2: a second indictment on the same incident?
speaker1: a man burns down a house; we charge him with arson. there were people sleeping upstairs - and after weeks in the hospital, they die. we'd charge him with murder. right?
speaker2: all your evidence is still toxic. the confession, the arrest - it's all still inadmissible.
speaker2: i'm sorry, willy. it was a good idea, but -
speaker1: i'll get something new.
speaker2: how?
speaker1: you don't want to know.
speaker2: willy, you can't -

speaker1: i don't work for you. right? 
speaker2: don't do anything crazy.
speaker1: what else have we got left?

speaker1: these are from that thing at the courthouse, right? 
speaker2: uh-huh.

speaker1: very dramatic. 
speaker2: you ain't seen nothin' yet.
speaker2: i want the gun.
speaker1: why? you've already got one.
speaker2: i want the gun you shot your wife with. now. crawford doesn't move.
speaker2: one way or another, i'm going to see to it you receive justice tonight.
speaker1: you're serious, aren't you.
speaker2: oh, yes.
speaker1: willy. you got religion, didn't you?! you care. that's...priceless.

speaker1: no, it's very sweet. really. 
speaker2: gonna be a whole lot less funny in about a minute.
speaker1: getting it like this: is that going to hold up in court?
speaker2: i don't work for the d.a. any more. i'm just a guy who broke into your house. when the police arrest me - they'll inventory anything in my possession. if that happens to be crucial evidence in another case, well: some prosecutor just got lucky.
speaker1: it takes a very special kind of person to look right into someone's eyes and pull the trigger. it takes a unique kind of strength.
speaker2: i guess you'd know that.
speaker1: yes. i would. the gun.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: you don't know me.
speaker1: no?

speaker1: then i'm in for a - rude awakening. 
speaker1: tick-tock. willy's angry. frustrated. trapped.
speaker1: where did you even get yourself a gun?
speaker2: it's nunally's.
speaker1: nunally's. really.
speaker2: yeah. really.
speaker2: there i was, with a perfectly good weapon just sitting in the evidence warehouse.
speaker1: willy. put it down.

speaker1: i thought you might appreciate the ...irony. 
speaker2: willy. think. and does. hesitating. distracted, by a thought.

speaker1: the police will be here very soon. 
speaker2: the exact same type of gun you bought your wife, a month before.

speaker1: and you left him yours. 
speaker1: beat. crawford shrugs - arrogant:
speaker2: i gave it back.
speaker1: yes you did.

speaker1: then you told nunally you'd put it down - if he put down his. 
speaker1: turns, looking into the alcove:
speaker1: that's why you moved her back there -

speaker1: - until nunally walked the murder weapon right out of the house. 
speaker1: stares at crawford. in real wonder.
speaker1: brilliant.
speaker2: you know, this is really kind of fun. it's like showing some caveman a cigarette lighter.
speaker1: this caveman's gonna put you in prison for the rest of your life.
speaker2: it's still not evidence, willy. there's no prints left by now. nothing ties that gun to me.

speaker1: no. that would be true. except for all those eggs. 
speaker2: those what?
speaker1: with all those little cracks and weak places. like nunally. shooting himself, right there in the courthouse. i didn't think he was going to do that. did you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: i mean, we all knew he was going to fall apart sooner or later. that was part of your plan, right? like a bank shot, on a pool table: you kill your wife - and destroy her lover. with one bullet. well: four bullets, actually. right?
speaker1: first bullet goes into your wife.
speaker1: then three more out the front of the house, to get some attention.
speaker1: then while you're waiting for the show to begin - you have to reload nunally's gun.

speaker1: i mean, you don't want him wondering where the four bullets went, considering he never fired his gun that night. 
speaker1: and i'm betting you didn't worry about fingerprints. crawford reacts.
speaker1: i mean, why would you? nobody's going to be looking at his gun.
speaker1: and sooner or later, life goes on, those four incriminating bullets would get used, and be gone forever.
speaker1: except nunally only fired one of those bullets. into himself. turns from the machine -

speaker1: which means there are still three left with your fingerprints on them - tom. in this clip. 
speaker1: everybody has a weak spot, right? some place they break.

