OFFICER: take your time. take a good look. 
SAFEWAY CASHIER: ah, a-are you sure they can't see us?
OFFICER: two-way mirror, ma'am.
FACTORY WORKER: but they're trained killers. a guy at the plant says, "in 'nam they could smell ya!"
OFFICER: this is the united states of america, sir.
OFFICER: face front.

DIANE: i'm sorry to bother you, ma'am, but is this going to take long? it's game night. 
OFFICER: picture in three --
OFFICER: -- two, one...

FBI AGENT: ...and testifying in such a case is a serious matter. should you decide your testimony would jeopardize your personal safety. 
LISA: look, "sipowitz", i said i'd tell you everything - i was just hoping to finish up before menopause kicks in.
LISA: let's start with the one who thinks her don't stink. diane weston.

CLOSE ON: foggy, heart-shaped mirror. 
LISA: she's like a poster child for high school.
DIANE: morning, sunshine. remember, these are the best days of your life.
DIANE: -- so far!
LISA: if i wasn't such a lady, i'd tell you what a she really is.

DIANE: hey, bruce! you look cute... 
LISA: outta my way, fag. i'm up.
LISA: this really should have been my year. i had a lotta work done - i-i mean, y'know, i'd done a lotta work over the summer.
DIANE: lisa?... is-is that you?
LISA: i lost a little weight.

LISA: you could tell it made her nervous. 
DIANE/LISA: ready? okay! pompoms snap to thighs and the cheer begins. diane is effortless as she glides, jumps and smiles through it - clearly better than lisa.
LISA: but they have to, y'know, spread the talent around, so i've been on the b squad for four years.

LISA: ...truth is, they're so close - they all get their monthly visit from "aunt rose" at the same time. 
LISA: first, there's hannah wold...

LISA: then, there's cleo miller... 
LISA: number one - not a natural blonde.
LISA: i know. i've been in the locker room and seen south of the border. number two -- she has to see the school shrink.

KANSAS: son-of-a-blue-balled-bitch! i always get this one. 
LISA: mouth on her that could stop a bull in heat. gets her nut-brain from her mom. see, mrs. hill's been in prison since the day kansas was born...

LISA: she was lying there, in labor with kansas, when she sees something going on in the next bed. 
LISA: turns out it's kansas' dad, uh, taking a nurse's temp. stay with me, i'm trying to be delicate.
FOCUS CLEARS: in silhouette, a man is a nurse.
LISA: so, mrs. hill whips out a shotgun and blows his to kingdom come.
LISA: jury said, because the majority of women in lincoln county having babies don't bring a shotgun, it counted as premeditation.
LISA: then there's lucy...
LISA: geek extraordinaire - a walking left brain. she's supposed to have this genius i.q.?
LISA: truth is, she's an obsessive-compulsive little freak.
DIANE/LISA: hands in, ladies.
DIANE: today, we're going to cheer loud, jump high, and look pretty because --

LISA: the school year started off like normal. principal smith gave his pep talk -- 
PRINCIPAL SMITH: ... and if you are approached to buy drugs, let someone you trust know. if you are thinking of harming yourself or others, let someone know. if it burns when you urinate, have milky seepage or are being touched by an uncle - let someone know...
LISA: the a-squad performed...
LISA: now, i know it's my duty to give you all the facts, so i have to say that their cheer blew like a bulimic after christmas dinner. their blatant disregard for national high school cheerleading association rules made me sick. "basket toss flips and wolf wall pyramids over two people high are strictly prohibited." i made a complete report and sent it in.
JACK'S POV: outside the gym doors.
LISA: and finally, the football team was introduced.
PRINCIPAL SMITH: transferring from truman high, the new star quarter back of our mighty fightin' logs!

LISA: that's when jack and diane met. nobody saw it coming... 
LISA: especially not jack...

LISA: jack was fine - oh man, was he fine. it was like he was a bar of chocolate and the whole school was on the rag - everyone wanted a piece of him... 
CLOSE ON: diane's mouth.
DIANE: jack bartlett... jack bart-lett... jack bar-t-lett.

DIANE: ... ja-ck b-ar-t-le-tt... is jack bartlett interested in me? 
HANNAH: i-i'm sorry - can someone else please run the ouija board? it's creepy, it's wrong and it goes against the teachings of my lord and savior, christ.
KANSAS: hannah, in order to get real answers from the netherworld, you've gotta have a christian virgin run the board. your kind is pure of heart - the devil won't with you.
HANNAH: well technically, i don't think i'm a virgin anymore.
HANNAH: yeah. this summer at church camp? i'm pretty sure i had, y'know, an orgasm.
KANSAS: hold up, hold up. any sentence that starts with "at church camp" ain't leading to the big "o."
CLEO: that's not true. those pictures of christ - all sweaty and bare-chested on the cross - always kinda made me hot.
KANSAS: anyway, last time i checked, you still had to have to have an orgasm. and i know she ain't seen the lord on all fours - so i'm just saying.
DIANE: well, i want to know what happened --
HANNAH: okay, one night, around sunset, i went horseback riding with the nuns. they went every night. and, well, we're trotting pretty hard, y'know? the hard leather saddle, pounding between my legs...
CLEO: i just got a little squishy...
HANNAH: all of a sudden, i feel... i feel... i feel just super alive... "down there." i swear i thought it was the second coming.
KANSAS: nope. sounds more like the first.
DIANE: i'll just ask the question myself... "is jack bartlett interested in me?" as the hand-piece starts to move on the board, we:

FOOTBALL PLAYER #1: you do the bondo yourself? 
JACK: yeah.
FOOTBALL PLAYER #2: sure-is-sweet.
FOOTBALL PLAYER #1: what'll she do?
JACK: never opened her up.
FOOTBALL PLAYER #2: s-weet.
JACK: who was the girl who kicked me in the head yesterday?
FOOTBALL PLAYER #1: diane weston.
FOOTBALL PLAYER #2: now she sure is sweet.

LISA: it was the first time most of us even heard jack speak. 
JACK: whoa...thanks, uh - wow. uh, hey, alright...okay, uh --
LISA: we weren't disappointed.
JACK: guys! hey, guys! shut up a minute.
JACK: well, uh, i think it just really rocks that the football team picked me as their, y'know, uh, candidate.
FEMALE VOICES: we love you, jack!
JACK: hey, well, i love you lunch ladies!
JACK: i just want to say that there are only three things i want in life - to someday become a senator of this great state...
JACK: i want to lead the lincoln high fightin' logs to victory at the homecoming game -- audience cheers!
JACK: okay, okay... uh, and i... i want to go to the homecoming dance with diane weston.
LISA: ucht! they were like friggin' barbie and ken, but without the pink, remote control corvette. overnight people were going, like --

DEEDEE: well, there's a christmas card. 
DENNIS: come in, come in...
DENNIS: say jack, why don't you go light a fire under diane.
JACK: i'm on it, mr. weston.
DEEDEE: oh - say, where're my manners. i'm deedee - you can remember me because of my double "d's."
DENNIS: and i'm diane's dad, dennis. do not try that after one of my screwdrivers!
DEEDEE: whoooo - now who wants some pigs-in-a blanket?

DIANE: hi, jack. 
JACK: excuse me, vendela, have you seen diane? we're supposed to go to the homecoming dance tonight.

LISA: i obviously wasn't there the night they all met, but it was probably a super goober fest. deedee enthusiastically mouths the following: 
LISA: "your jack's one heck of a good football player." jack's dad mouths the following:
LISA: "i don't know how he can concentrate with your lovely diane cheering on the sidelines?!" they all laugh.
LISA: "ha, ha, ha, ha..." ucht!
JACK: hold on a minute. hold on. i have an announcement.
JACK: me and diane, uh... we decided we're going to get married.
DEEDEE: oh, oh, mother of the bride - i'm allowed!
DIANE: but not before... i have our baby.

DIANE: ... so when your dad said, "i never want to see your "f-'in' faces again!" do you think he meant forever or just until your mom wakes up? 
JACK: i don't know... and what the was that sound she made right before she hit the coffee table.
DIANE: well, if i had to guess... i'd say that was the sound of a mother saying good-bye to her little boy and hello to a young man who's going to be a daddy of his own... jack, do you know what i see here?
JACK: spit from your dad?
DIANE: i see a flower. and y'know, even the most beautiful flowers still grow from dirt.
JACK: yeah.
DIANE: so, while we're knee deep in right now - and things seem pretty "stinky" - in the long run, we're going to grow strong from this.
JACK: y'think?
DIANE: i sure do.

JACK: diane, i've loved you ever since i first saw you -- right before you kicked me in the head. 
DIANE: oh, jack...

LISA: diane must've told her squad that night. 
DIANE: so...
LISA: i'm sure they were thrilled. i mean, if diane said jump, they'd say "double dutch," "shoot the moon," or "split russian?" suddenly, everyone starts talking at once.
CLEO: holy
LUCY: you just became a statistic!
KANSAS: oh my g-d! i'm not first!
HANNAH: but you're not married.
CLEO: wait! did you say you are pregnant or you were pregnant... you had it, threw it out and you're gonna go back and dance all night!
KANSAS: shut up, cleo. di, how much do you need for an abortion?
HANNAH: what?! no! not an abortion! my church can arrange for you to go to oregon and take care of a "sick aunt" for nine months. then they put your baby good home and you come back - a little dazed and puffy - but everything's fine! oh please, di, don't be a and a murderer!
LISA: jack told the team that night, too.

JACK: hey, guys? uh, i got diane pregnant. 
FOOTBALL PLAYER #1: what?! well - all right!
FOOTBALL PLAYER #2: you nailed diane weston? i'd never wash my johnson again!
HANNAH: i-i didn't mean to say "whore," diane. i just hear it so much at church - it kinda came flying out of my head.
DIANE: i know, hannah. look, i'm not going to get an abortion. i mean, i always planned to get married and have kids - i'm just going a little out of order. kinda reminds me of another young lady who found herself "with child," unmarried, on a long road, with no place to sleep. 'course, that was a long-long time ago. but no matter what, she held her head high and said... "pappa don't preach, i'm in trouble deep. pappa don't preach, 'cause i'm keepin' my baby. hey. i'm gonna keep my baby." the great one...
DIANE: madonna.
KANSAS: we're here for you, diane.
LISA: i guess their little fairy tale could've ended there, "and they lived happily ever after." only problem was... they didn't have a place to live!

LOAN OFFICER: i'm sorry. 
DIANE: what?! but all our paperwork's there. my school records, jack's football records...
LOAN OFFICER: let me explain something...
DIANE: no. wait! did i say promise! cross-my heart and hope-to-die, stick-a-needle-in my-eye we'll never miss a payment?!
LOAN OFFICER: uh, yes. yes you did.
JACK: diane. hold on a minute. i think i know where this is going. i'm willing to put up the papers for my mustang - she's got a few miles on her, but she looks great.
LOAN OFFICER: i'm sure, son, but --
JACK: okay! stop twisting my arm! i'll throw in the speakers.
LOAN OFFICER: look, kids, why don't you just have your parents come i n and get a loan? then they could give you the money.
DIANE: with all due respect, jack and diane bartlett...
DIANE: ...do not accept charity. we are two young, able-bodied americans. we do not want a handout. we want a hand-up. give us food and we will be hungry tomorrow. give us corn - the kind you plant, not eat - and we'll grow our own food and... and, uh, then cut it, and - uh, y'know eat it! now, if you're interested in giving us a home loan, i will sit back down. if not, have a nice day, ma'am.
LOAN OFFICER: sorry. my hands are tied.

CUSTOMER POV: jack, in uniform, stands behind the counter. 
JACK: welcome to burger bin. don't get the filet-o-fish - the fry cook picks his ass.

CUSTOMER POV: jack stands at the counter - in uniform. 
JACK: we don't really have fried rats in the buckets - i know, i checked.

SAME SCENE: pull back to reveal a long line waiting. 
JACK: that'll be...uh, thirty five cents, please.

JACK: y'know what? i'll save you the time. i'm not going to lie. i don't believe in it. if you pick your - i'm going to tell people. i have no idea how to run your registers. and, if any of you are hard core drinkers and like to throw knives, well, i'm outta here right now. 
TED: uh, are, uh, you-you're jack bartlett, right?
JACK: yeah.
TED: you'd be, like, hangin' out with us every night after school, right?
JACK: yeah - well, after football practice.
CHRIS: football practice - fantasmic.
TED: you're hired!

JACK: i'm on top of the world! 
JACK: hey, di, if we have a girl, we should dress her like little debbie!
DIANE: jack, sweetie, i'm only eating for two.

JACK: like cocoa puffs. good. captain crunch. bad. shreds the roof of your mouth. i mean you hear, "tricks are for kids!" and you think, "i'm a kid, i guess they're for me." but your baby brain's got no idea that fruit loops are, like, a million times better. i'm going to save our kid all that pain. 
DIANE: jack...
JACK: if you could be count chocula, frankenberry or trix the rabbit, who'd you be?
DIANE: trix...
JACK: me too! will it ever end?! i love this lady!
DIANE: jack, i think i should get a job.
JACK: but we agreed your job is running the baby machine...
DIANE: i know, but that was before.
JACK: ah! i almost forgot gas for the baby machine. i'll grab your snickers and get a place in line.

JACK: i never knew you dreamed of working in a grocery store bank branch. baby, we are living the great american dream! 
DIANE: mmm-hmmm...
DIANE: if you reach for the stars, you're bound to get -- mm-jack, pull over.
JACK: huh? oh jesus...
JACK: why do they call it morning sickness?

CLOSE ON: jack and the social retards. 
JACK: ...she's in my hands, right? moist to the touch. it's at that moment i think i control her - she's mine. but it's a false illusion, like in "backdraft." no man controls fire! she's ready, i'm ready, she's ready, i yell, "one-fifty four, forty eight."
PULL BACK: to reveal he's holding a football.
JACK: hike!

CLEO: i can't believe they have the "top ten alternatives to for you and your boyfriend" and "watching each other masturbate" isn't even listed! 
LUCY: diane, it says here you're going to have mood swings, uncontrollable gas.
KANSAS: more proof a guy...
LUCY: ...and dreams where you actually have an orgasm!
KANSAS: virgin mary musta snuck that one in.

CHRIS: jack, c'mon, you promised. 
JACK: okay, one question.
TED: oh, me-me-me, mine's great.
CHRIS: proceed, dungeon master quan.
TED: okay. jack, y'know how you and diane... slept together? well now that you can't, y'know, "sleep together," but you still sleep together, don't you ever get, like, just, super horny? if so, how horny? i'll be quiet now so i can listen to your answer.
LISA: yeah, jack - i'd love to hear your answer.
JACK: the answer's easy... oh, "lolita" is due tomorrow - same for "9 1/2 weeks." ditto on "wild things." i'm gonna be a dad! dads don't get horny.

LUCY: diane? diane! 
DIANE: huh-ha-wha? ahh! i'm under the ice! i'm uh -- oh...man... that was a weird one.
PULL BACK: to reveal the squad stands in front of diane.
CLEO: another dream?
DIANE: wayne gretzky.
KANSAS: hat-trick?
DIANE: he is the great one...

LISA: jack? oh jack... 
TED: can i help you?
LISA: oh my g-d - are you okay?
JACK: diane?

LUCY: oh my g-d, you've been robbed! 
DIANE: no...i've been pregnant.
CLEO: di, are you okay? we can skip the girl party this week.
DIANE: everything's fine. i'm just having a little trouble keeping my frown upside down.
HANNAH: you want us to help you pick up?
DIANE: don't martha-fucking-stewart me! if you don't like it - you try being a pregnant teen!
KANSAS: and we have our first pregnancy mood swing. all that's left is -- diane farts o.c.
KANSAS: bingo.

CLEO: did you guys hear that in china - or one a those places that makes the really cheap silk shoes and kids are super smart - that as a reward for good grades, mothers get their kids hookers to blow 'em? all stop and look at her. 
HANNAH: no.
CLEO: huh. musta been a dream.
DIANE: i'm sorry to keep asking this, but are you guys sure i'm not fat?
DIANE: "no" you're not sure or "no" i'm not fat?
KANSAS: uh, "no"... you're not fat.
DIANE: you sure i'm not fat?
LUCY: look, you're fat, diane. you're fat, fat, fat! because you eat, eat, eat! what?! she keeps asking because she wants some honesty.
DIANE: no i don't... i keep asking because i feel fat.
LUCY: oh g-d, i'm sorry... you're not really fat! i was just saying that because, uh, i thought that's what you wanted me to say.
DIANE: you sure?
LUCY: positive.
DIANE: "positive" you're sure i'm not fat or "positive" i'm...

LUCY: oh my g-d, i read about this! it's called a "pregnancy insanity." quick, she needs a sitz bath -- 
DIANE: look, i might be moody. i might be gassy. but i am perfectly sane. think about it. in school, they tell us, "dreams can come true." right?
DIANE: but they don't tell us how! well, thanks to keanu, i figured it out! money makes your dreams come true.
DIANE: listen, kansas, i know you dream of springing your mom some day...
KANSAS: stop, you're gonna make me cry.
DIANE: and if the o.j. trial taught us anything, it taught us that in america, you can cut off someone's head and still be found innocent if you have enough money. your mom only shot a guy...
DIANE: now cleo, i know you dream of an all leather apartment with conan - i heard the school shrink telling a lunch lady.
DIANE: and hannah, you could give your share to your church - or maybe buy one of those hungry little kids sally struthers advertises.
HANNAH: or, i could get my own horse...
DIANE: or that! look, you guys, i just want to provide a future for my baby. i know my bank branch like the back of my puffy little hand. i could open that safe in my sleep!
KANSAS: i'm in.
KANSAS: i mean it. i'm in. this is the closest thing to a family that i've ever had. if one of us needs something, we all do.
LUCY: stop it! this is crazy!
CLEO: i'm in, too.
LUCY: cleo!
CLEO: kansas is right. we're like sisters -- we're closer than sisters. and you don't turn your back on family.
DIANE: c'mon, luce, people do it in the movies all the time.
LUCY: and they get caught!
DIANE: that's right. so all we have to do is watch a bunch of movies and learn from their mistakes.
CLEO: and you know real cops aren't half as smart as keanu.
LUCY: forget it. i've got a scholarship to harvard hanging over my head. i won't risk it.
CLEO: conan went to harvard.
KANSAS: shut up.
DIANE: lucy, do you know for sure you're going to get that scholarship?
LUCY: no.
DIANE: if you don't - can you still afford to go to harvard?
LUCY: ... i don't know. probably not.
DIANE: so then this isn't crazy. it's a sure bet.
LUCY: well...
LUCY: i guess we're in this together.
LUCY: but, we have to make a smart plan!
DIANE: of course - of course! hands in...
DIANE: we all have to cross-our-hearts-hope-to die-stick-a-dirty-needle-in-my-eye that we'll never tell jack. we all know he can't lie - that's why he's going to be such a great senator.

LISA: ... i do! i totally marry prince william even if he was gay. i mean, in england all guys are kinda gay anyway. even cigarettes are over there... 
CLEO: ...he slices off the guy's ear, and i mean you see everything - the pink hole where the --
DIANE: cleo, i've already thrown up twice today - could you please get to any relevant part of the movie?
CLEO: well...uh...they, y'know, uh... they had nicknames.

LUCY: ...page one is a plot summary of "heat." two has my character summaries. three is my overall critique and on four through ten, you'll find my nexus search of all prior analysis of this film... 
LUCY: uh, in summation, no part of "heat" is really applicable to a grocery store bank branch robbery.
JACK: what the heck is going on here?
DIANE: uh, jack - look, i can explain...
JACK: diane, there's no excuse for not taking your pre-natal vitamins. now, if you guys were really friends, you'd remind her to take these.
TED: uh, cleo...would you just say my name?

HANNAH: ...so, while it's a laugh riot for the whole family, and tim conway is just about as funny as they come, especially when he goes... 
KANSAS: wait a minute. you watched the apple fucking-dumpling gang?!
HANNAH: i'm only allowed "g" movies.
KANSAS: am i the only one who cares about this? at least i watched "dog day afternoon!"
HUSBAND: excuse me, could you please keep your voice down? we're not introducing anger into the womb.
KANSAS: well how'd you like me to introduce my foot into your ass?
DIANE: kansas!
KANSAS: i'm sorry, diane, but i'm not gonna watch my dreams fade away 'cause the virgin mary here thinks she's gonna get ideas from kiddie movies --
HANNAH: those of us who have parents, know that they have rules because they care!
KANSAS: you sure you wanna go there?
HANNAH: uh...maybe?
KANSAS: 'cause i will jerry springer you faster than you can say "fat-assed lesbian!"
NURSE: diane weston?

CLEO: di, we're sorry. we... 
DIANE: it's off... i can't take the fighting, the back-stabbing, the open hostility. we're not acting like cheerleaders, we're acting like a bunch of sorority girls!
DIANE: it's all my fault. i'm sorry i ever started this...
KANSAS: di, it's not your fault. we all wanted to do this - for you... for ourselves.
HANNAH: look, maybe i can watch a pg movie... i'll just say i'm counting dirty words for sunday school.
DIANE: that's okay, hannah. it was silly to think we could learn to rob a bank from watching movies. - you can learn from movies. but robberies? there's no way.
DIANE: besides, tv-land had a "little house on the prairie" marathon and the ingalls made baby carrie's bed in a dresser drawer. i guess i can just do that...
DIANE: oh my g-d...
CLEO: ahh! baby's got two heads!!!
LUCY: it's twins!!
DIANE: oh, thank g-d! i'm not just super fat!
KANSAS: oh - okay, we ain't done with this... those babies are gonna get a good start in life - with a real crib - one that costs a shit-load! we're gonna learn how to rob a bank from the only people who really know how to do it - criminals! i'm gonna visit my mom!

MRS. HILL: you don't look nothing like your pictures. what happened to the curly red hair? 
KANSAS: grandma and grandpa sent you pictures of a neighbor girl. they didn't want you to break out and come kidnap me.
MRS. HILL: thank g-d. i was starting to think i'd killed the wrong man.
KANSAS: you shouldn't smoke so many of those.
MRS. HILL: i know, but it keeps down the size of my can.
KANSAS: they could kill you.
MRS. HILL: so could half the women in here. and i'd rather go out with a nice can... so watcha here for? to say how much you hate me or how much your grandparents hate me...
KANSAS: i don't hate you. i need your help.
MRS. HILL: my what?
KANSAS: your help.
MRS. HILL: now how the can i help you?
KANSAS: okay, you can't tell anybody.
MRS. HILL: gee, i'll sit out this afternoon's coffee talk. whaddya want?
KANSAS: my best friend got pregnant.
MRS. HILL: before you? whoo-hoo!
KANSAS: i know - that's what i said too. anyway, we want to help her get some money for the baby by robbing a bank.
MRS. HILL: well, shit-fire, kansas, that's the sweetest thing ever...
KANSAS: i know, but we can't quite figure out how to, y'know, do it.
MRS. HILL: so you need my help? oh my g-d, this is like asking me for help with your homework. hey, mink, c'mere!
MRS. HILL: kansas, i want you to meet someone special.
KANSAS: oh, christ, mom! like my life ain't a great big pile-of-shit 'cause you're in here? now i have to add, "p.s. my mom's a dyke" too?
MRS. HILL: what?! hush up, you mouthy little
KANSAS: hey, don't "mouthy shit" me - i'm outta here.
MRS. HILL: wait, petunia. mommy's a little amped up - didn't get her yard time this morning. mink ain't my she's a specialist... in banks.

INMATE #1: thems some sweet skirts y'got there. 
DIANE: well, thank you. they're actually uniforms - we're cheerleaders.
INMATE #1: mmm-hmm... y'sure are.
DIANE: excuse us.
KANSAS: same time tomorrow - we have a visit with our favorite "aunts."

MINK: robbin' a bank is like pullin' a trick. you gotta stay in control, know how far you'll go for the dough and always put the rubber on yourself... well, y'know what i mean. and you gotta do it the day after christmas. 
KANSAS: why?
MINK: banks never have a holiday pick up, so vaults are full. besides, everyone's at home eatin' left-overs and beatin' their kids.

INMATE #2: y'gotta buy gats from "the terminator." and tell him "itchy" sent'ya. 
LUCY: and "gats" are...
INMATE #2: guns, cuties.
LUCY: and you're called "itchy" because...

JACK: ...so although their dad said, "don't get out of the car until i get back with help," they knew the sheriff's voice as he yelled. "run to my voice - and don't look back." the twins did as he said, but at the last second they turned around and saw the escaped mental patient, bouncing their father's head on the top of the car! ah! they jumped, diane! they jumped! 
DIANE: that was gas, sweetie.
JACK: oh... what are you working on?
DIANE: jus some girlie things for the squad.

KANSAS: whoever gets out alive -- have the authorities to check in the crawl space. 
DIANE: kansas, you should never judge a book by its cover.
HANK: yeah?
DIANE: i guess there's an exception to every rule.
KANSAS: you're the "terminator?"
HANK: you come in here to bust my balls? i kill bugs for a livin'. g-d already beat ya to it.
DIANE: no! wait...um... we're the a-squad from lincoln high? so, uh...
KANSAS: we were told you could "fix us up."
HANK: really...
LUCY: yeah. "itchy" sent us.
HANK: she did, did she? how is the old girl?
LUCY: definitely old.
HANK: that's itchy, alright. how many y'need?
DIANE: well, we'll each probably want one - so let's make it five. five should do it.
HANK: okay. how much ammo you reckon you'll need?
DIANE: ammo?
HANK: bullets.
DIANE: bullets? no bullets! oh my gosh, these are just to scare people. kinda like round-off, back handspring, whip back, double full. you never really use it - you just want the opposing squad to know you've got it.
HANK: right. that'll be fifteen hundred - cash.
CLEO: what?!
KANSAS: you piece-a-shit bug zapper!
DIANE: hey, hey, hey. c'mon you guys. obviously that's a little more than our budget will allow. basically, we're looking for something around two-hundred dollars.
HANK: oh, why didn't you say. for two-hundred i got a nice rubber band and a real sharp nail in back... i'll gift wrap it for you. the deal is fifteen hundred. cash. take it or leave it.
HANNAH: what kind of deal would you make if i said we were going to the police and tell them you're selling illegal guns...
HANK: i'd just hafta kiiiiiill you.
DIANE: well, okay then. it was a pleasure meeting you. take care, let's go you guys.
HANK: hold on!
LUCY: oh please, we've all got bright futures ahead of us - we're not going to tell anyone. promise!
HANK: maybe we can make a deal.
KANSAS: look, we're not gonna trade for guns. unless cleo...
HANK: my daughter's always dreamed of bein' a cheerleader. put her on your squad and i'll give you the guns.
DIANE: you're kidding.
HANK: fern! c'mere!
DIANE: we'll be right back.

CLOSE ON: slide of vagina. 
INSTRUCTOR: the vagina, forming the lower portion of the birth canal, will normally expand its folded walls to allow for the birth process...
DIANE: sorry, we had our first basketball game - went into overtime... excuse us. sorry.

INSTRUCTOR: may i continue, ladies? 
KANSAS: sure. unless it's hard for you to talk with that stick up your ass.

CLEO: is jack upset that he can't be here? 
DIANE: hee-hee-haaaa-weee worked it out. heee hee-haaa....

JACK: c'mon, don't stop now. we're gonna make it, baby. 
LISA: what a sad waste of a man.

LUCY: okay, even with all our savings, it's still only six hundred fifty-four. 
DIANE: hee-hee-hee, haaaaa-that's it? hee-hee hee...
KANSAS: don't make me jerry lewis you guys for the rest.
HANNAH: hey, i even took my parents' foster kid money. phillipe's gonna have to gather rice without pants this month.
LUCY: look, you guys, three strikes we're out. let's face it. it's time to abort!
KANSAS: hey. eyes on your own belly!
DIANE: hee-hee-h-wait a minute. hold on, now. what do we do before a big game?
CLEO: use the bathroom, because the port-a potties on the field are gross.
DIANE: my fault - what do we do that enables us to be as great as we are?
CLEO: i personally think of how conan started as a writer, then became a...
LUCY: -- we practice! sorry, cleo.
DIANE: that's right. practice makes perfect. i'm practicing to have a baby right now. if we do a practice job, we'll not only get the experience, but also the extra money we need for guns!
DIANE: i've got the perfect job - and i've gotta pee - help me up!

DIANE: uh, fern? 
FERN: yeah?
DIANE: no more filling tanks before practice, okay?
FERN: 'kay.
CLEO: so, y'know, what are you, anorexic or bulimic?
FERN: just skinny.
CLEO: don't make me hate you.

CLEO: i can't believe your grandparents never come down here. 
KANSAS: you have three heart attacks and a half dozen strokes and tell me how much you wanna run up and down the stairs. - i forgot to pick up the cigarettes.
DIANE: ready?
DIANE: okay!
KANSAS: what the hell?
DIANE: oh no...
KANSAS: he ikea'd us.
LUCY: okay. how many signs do we need? we're not supposed to do this...
HANNAH: maybe lucy's right. maybe this is a sign.
KANSAS: screw lucy!
GRANDMOTHER: kansas?
GRANDMOTHER: is that you down there?
KANSAS: yeah, grandma. me and the squad.
GRANDMOTHER: are you girls talking about boys? practicing kissing your hands?
KANSAS: oh yeah, you caught us...
GRANDMOTHER: oh well, then i'll put some cookies at the top of the stairs for you gals.
KANSAS: thanks! that'd be great.
GRANDMOTHER: you got that big retarded girl down there?
KANSAS: uh...yeah, grandma. she doesn't mean that. kinda lost the old filter with her last stroke.
GRANDMOTHER: then i'll throw a few more treats on the plate. where's my smokes?
KANSAS: i'll get them before "touched by an angel," don't worry.
GRANDMOTHER: you well better...
CLEO: this is great. what do we do? threaten people with a trunk full of parts?
FERN: i'm sorry, you guys. but when you're dealin' with south american rebels, you kinda gotta take what you can get.
DIANE: excuse me, but do you guys know what i don't see here?
DIANE: i don't see a problem. i see a great big craft project sitting right in front of us. so, kansas, get me some glue, tape and a nail file...
DIANE: oh, and some lysol if you have...

CLOSE ON: log mascot head 
BRUCE: please join our "a" and "b" squad cheerleaders in a salute to winter sports!

BRUCE: "i....see...girls swimming..." 
BRUCE: "boys swimming..."
BRUCE: "ooooh, they look chilllyyyyy..."
BRUCE: "volleyball for her..."

KANSAS: who are you - the bionic woman?! 
CLEO: i just pulled and it - it came off.
KANSAS: this is great - great! now we have to enter the front door!
CLEO: look, it's really not my fault.
KANSAS: hey! rule number one - never take off the mask! y'hear me! no matter what happens, never take off the mask!
CLEO: sorry, kansas...
KANSAS: no-gah-buh- no! rule number two - no names! no names, you retard!
CLEO: oh for chrissakes... "white trash betty." i didn't realize the rules went into effect before we entered safeway.
KANSAS: well, use your head, "stalker betty."
DIANE: bettys, stop it! "the best squad is one that hopes for the best and prepares for the worst." national high school cheerleading association letterhead. now, let's give a hands in...
DIANE: we're ready. we're prepared. and this is going to be the best bank robbery ever, because...
DIANE and SQUAD: cheer-leaders kick...

NIXON: shh! it's me. 
DIANE: lucy?
KANSAS: what the do you want?
LUCY: i want to help. i'm part of this squad...
HANNAH: oh no! you committed the ultimate sin - you left our squad to be with a guy. and - and that guy is the devil himself - 'cause only the devil would turn you against your sisters!
DIANE: hannah, you really have to stop taking that church stuff so literally.

KANSAS: okay, down on the ground! now! 
KANSAS: i said down!
SAFEWAY CASHIER: uh, y-y-y-you robbin' the safeway, or the bank?

SAFEWAY CASHIER: s-s-so y'want everyone down? o-or just the people at the b-b-bank branch? 
KANSAS: all of you!
HANNAH: bank branch!
KANSAS: bank branch!
HANNAH: all of you!

KANSAS: bank branch only! everyone else - go on about your business! 
KANSAS: - everybody down!

FACTORY WORKER: this here's that's what this is! 
FERN: 
DIANE: i'm fine here - go help!
FACTORY WORKER: not gonna let some piece-a-shit betty doll tell me what to do...

FACTORY WORKER: no-sireee-bob... 
KANSAS: freeze or meet ass-hole!
FACTORY WORKER: don't we never take the lord's son's name in vain around this part of the u-s
FACTORY WORKER: ahhhhhhhh!

FERN: uh, i forgot to tell you sometimes when the rebels take the gun off a corpse, some live rounds get left in the drum. 
HANNAH: good to know, fern. good to know.

LISA: ...i'm walking evidence! one of them stopped my ass! can you get a shot of it!? hey, can someone dust my for prints over here?! the male reporter waves two paramedics over - signaling "crazy" and pointing to lisa. 
LISA: i immediately started helping local police with their investigation.
LISA: oh, wait - i almost forgot! i-i found this!!!

CLEO: can you guys believe this? we're like celebrities! 
LUCY: better enjoy it now. 'cause tomorrow some little kid falls down a well and we're nothing but a distant memory.
KANSAS: disguises incinerated!
KANSAS: bad news, di, there's one thing we just couldn't fit in the furnace...

DIANE: oh my g-d! a real crib! you guys - thank you! can you believe we did it!? i mean, we did it. we really did it! 
LISA: i guess no one could've predicted the shit-storm that was about to hit. the only thing people cared about, thought about or talked about was the robbery. everyone had a theory.

SAFEWAY CASHIER: ...well, judging by the way the robbers practically flew up to spray paint security cameras, i think it was an asian gang. as a people, they tend to be quite tiny and very acrobatic... 
LISA: that's all it took, then the next thing you know...

NEWS CAMERA POV: bank branch worker talks into a "channel 5" mic. 
BANK BRANCH WORKER: i think it was five pregnant women, mmm hmmm. my wife and i have two babies of our own and there's no accounting for the things they'll do when they're in that "condition." one night my wife came home from work and she just kicked me in the balls. to this day, i don't know what came over her - just kicked me in the balls.

NEWS CAMERA POV: factory worker talks into an "abc" mic. 
LISA: news of this didn't stop at the border of lincoln county. this thing spread faster than a canker sore on the girls' swim team. someone in lincoln would say something like...
FACTORY WORKER: it was a bunch of faggots! sure-as . they was dressed like a bunch of freakin' wendy dolls, for chrissakes. they had faggoty little voices. and only a buncha g-d- queer'd shoot up a union cap!
LISA: all of a sudden...

ROBIN QUIVERS: in other news...oh, did you hear about the six-armed betty dolls that robbed a bank the other day? 
HOWARD STERN: oh man, that's so my fantasy - life size bettys tellin' me what to do. "get down on the ground, you filthy man." yes, giant betty. "bend over!" yes, mistress betty.
ROBIN QUIVERS: they were pregnant.
HOWARD STERN: what?! knocked-up bettys?! couldn't-a been ken, his is molded to his body. hey, at the police line-up, they should just see whose knees can bend the wrong way...
BOB GOEN: ...when we come back, a behind the scenes look at fox's week long series, "when bettys attack."

KENNY: what the hell?! 
KYLE: what the are you s'posed to be?
CARTMAN: i'm a bank-robbin' betty.

LISA: then it happened - the moment i'd been waiting for! our dip-shits in blue finally followed up on my evidence... 
CONAN: ...they now believe a group of young women are responsible for the betty bank robbery. i've said for years the betty doll was a bad influence on young girls.
ANDY: you sure have...can't shut you up about your bettys.
CONAN: that's right. now, i mean i'm no authority on young girls. or am i? that was kinda creepy.
ANDY: do you have to notify police if you move?

KANSAS: it was lucy! lucy went to the cops! 
DIANE: remember, kansas, every time you point a finger you've got three more pointing back at you.
KANSAS: she's been the weak on this mama cat since the beginning.

KANSAS: that you? 
DIANE: yeah, hold on.
KANSAS: just call me later. i gotta get some smokes for grandma.
DIANE: don't use big bills!
KANSAS: for a pack of cigs? i use her food stamps.

DIANE: hello? 
HANNAH: we're dead! they showed this prison movie to my youth group on sunday.
DIANE: hannah, we've...
HANNAH: it wasn't like the prison we saw - all these women had to shave their heads because they got lice from the filthy lives they'd lived! oh g-d, i'm gonna be someone's bald

LUCY: di, it's luce. kansas just called and said she's going to "fuck me up!" then i heard coughing, a thud and kansas had to go. i think her grandma had another heart attack. anyway, why does she want to "fuck me up?" 
DIANE: she thinks you went to the police.
LUCY: what?! that's insane!!! why would i go to the police?

HANNAH: ...my sunday school teacher says that in prison, women shove broom sticks up your... 
DIANE: hold on...

DIANE: yeah? 
DIM SUM CHARLIE: oh thank buddha it's you, kim-lo, i'm being held against my will, my civil rights have been violated and it took four days to make this one phone call...
DIANE: hello?
DIM SUM CHARLIE: kim-lo?
DIANE: no. this is diane. i think you have the wrong number.

DIANE: ooops, that's me -- gotta run! 
DIM SUM CHARLIE: wrong number nooooooo!

DIANE: hello? 
CLEO: di? i just called to say that conan talked about us again last night.
DIANE: thanks, cleo. see you tomorrow.
CLEO: bye.

DIANE: morning, sunshine. remember, except for the morning sickness, blinding back pain and embarrassingly unpredictable gas - these are the best days of your life. 
DIANE: so far.
DIANE: hey, hey, hey, not so fast...
DIANE: following your dream is not a crime. nobody suspects you. nobody has a clue.

LISA: hey guys. someone not take a shower today? 
KANSAS: hey lisa, did you run into carmen electra last summer?
LISA: no.
KANSAS: oh. 'cause is looks like you got some of her in you...
LISA: this just came from the national high school cheerleading association. you might want to look it over before you try any more "cradle dismounts from double base partner stunts that are over shoulder stand level without using three catchers." oh, or before you think about robbing another bank.

LISA: ...and that's why i came forward. i mean, even the kids on the short bus can see that all the evidence points to diane and the a-squad. 
FBI AGENT: sure does. your testimony will prove invaluable.
LISA: unfortunately, it wasn't them.

THE LIST: "get alibi" is crossed off. 
LISA: they were all waiting in my suburban while i ran into the safeway that day for cash...

