speaker1: customer approaches. 
speaker2: do you have the book on the road by jack kerouac?
speaker3: do you have a copy of on the road by jack kerouac?
speaker3: thanks.

speaker1: sherri! what are you doing? 
speaker2: i'm leaving you.
speaker1: oh, thank i thought you were robbing our own home, because frankly, that's insane. i mean, what could you possibly gain by robbing your own home? i don't mean to meddle, but isn't it better to rob other peoples' homes? start accumulating their wealth as opposed to just reaccumulating your own wealth.
speaker2: that's not funny, charlie. i'm really leaving.
speaker1: what?! just because we had a fight last night?
speaker2: we've had a fight every night for two months. ever since i brought up the subject of marriage, you've found fault with everything i do. why couldn't we have gotten married, charlie?
speaker1: i'm too young to get married. i'm only twenty-nine and a half. we love living together.
speaker2: it's been two years now. i need something more.
speaker1: see, sherri, this is frustrating for me, okay. when we first started going out i thought we agreed that we weren't the sort of people who got married.
speaker2: that's like saying we're not the sort of people who are going to grow old. we're not going to fall into that "growing old" trap. face it, you've got a problem with commitment, charlie. take a look at your other girlfriends. every time you get close to a commitment there's something wrong with them.
speaker1: hey, i broke up with them for good reasons.
speaker2: what about sandy?
speaker1: sandy was an alcoholic.
speaker2: no-no-no. you thought she was an alcoholic. she just drank more than you drank. what about jill?
speaker1: she hated my family.
speaker2: you thought she hated your family. nobody hates your family. everybody loves your family. what about julie?
speaker1: she smelled like soup.
speaker2: what does that mean?
speaker1: she smelled exactly like campbell's beef vegetable soup. she was dirty, physically dirty.
speaker2: well, charlie, i wonder what you're gonna say were my problems? are you gonna tell your friends that i was a junkie, that i wasn't supportive enough or that i smelled like relish? charlie, i loved you. it could have worked out. think about it.

speaker1: tony, teenage fan club, they're scottish you know? 
speaker2: oh.
speaker1: i had that dream again.
speaker2: oh, is that the one where you suspect that a fat man in a diaper, on a lazy susan has interfered with your plans for the evening?
speaker1: no, but i have had that one. no, in this one i'm in love...
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: and i say to myself, 'i've finally found somebody that i'm truly comfortable with.' you know when you're so comfortable that you'll let them put makeup on you to see what you would look like if you were a girl. anyways you know what i do in the dream next?
speaker2: you propose?
speaker1: no. i die.
speaker2: but charlie, you're a normal suburban guy at heart, from a normal suburban family. didn't you tell me you always wanted to get married and have a family.
speaker1: yes, but, i'm afraid, okay? there are seven main rites of passage in a man's life. birth, first day of school, last day of school. marriage. kids. retirement. death. i'm at marriage. i'm two rites of passage away from death.
speaker2: i'm sorry, i wasn't listening.
speaker2: christ. it's the cops.
speaker1: tony, you are a cop.
speaker2: i know. isn't it awful? i work with those guys. they're assholes.

speaker1: salve zio mio. 
speaker2: allora? che catzo fai, charlie?
speaker3: hi, uncle giuseppi.
speaker2: tony, come' stai bello il tuo pappa e' in galera per la terza volta.
speaker2: i'll have the waitress bring you cappuccino.
speaker3: what did your uncle say?
speaker1: he says my dad's back in jail again.
speaker3: ah, i'm sorry, man.
speaker1: you know, it's funny i don't even feel related to my parents anymore. i feel like your mom and dad are more like my parents. i feel more scottish than italian.
speaker3: tony spiletti, i don't think you could get more italian than that. unless of course your name was tony italian guy.
speaker3: i'm so bummed. sherri was great, wasn't she? i'm an asshole, aren't

speaker1: yes. 
speaker2: you've got to help me get through this night.
speaker1: you've just got to get back on the horse.
speaker2: waitress, i'm sorry, there seems to be a mistake. i ordered the large cappuccino.
speaker2: do you think these cups could be larger? they're practically bowls.
speaker2: i feel like i'm having campbell's cuppuccino.
speaker1: join us in a cup of coffee? there's enough room?
speaker3: sure!
speaker4: my name's susan and this is june. we think you're funny.
speaker1: my name's tony. this is my friend charlie.
speaker2: look, tony, i'm going home. see you later, girls.
speaker1: you really don't understand, do you? when a girl comes over to your table and says, 'i think you're funny.' it means you've pretty much been given the keys to the city. charlie, this is big.
speaker2: perhaps you've confused me with someone who gives a here's what's gonna happen, tony. we'll end up going out with them tonight, maybe even home with them. well go out for two months. soon she'll move in, we'll be happy, she'll want more of a commitment. i'll be terrified and i'll do something to ruin it. just like i did with sherri.
speaker5: poor, guy... he seemed so nice.
speaker1: i just broke up with somebody as well. she left me high and dry.

speaker1: shoplifter. but i got him! you're next. 
speaker2: i've come at a bad time.
speaker1: no stay!
speaker2: no, no, really... obviously you've got things you have to do. you've got to dismember the rest of his torso. dig a makeshift shallow grave. cover the body with quick lime. really so much to do, so little time and i'm only in the way here, i'm just gonna go. good luck.
speaker1: oh, this! oh, no, this is what he stole. this isn't a piece of him or anything. this is icelandic shank.
speaker2: i bet it goes well with a nice chianti. fittfittfitt.
speaker1: can i help you?
speaker2: yes. do you have haggis?
speaker1: yes, we do. it's over here in our scottish cuts section. one?
speaker2: yes! i've never been able to find haggis anywhere, except at my parents' house. they're scottish.
speaker1: that'll be fifteen, seventy-nine. will there be anything else?
speaker2: yes. i know it's a long shot, but you wouldn't by any chance happen to have any prussian venison?
speaker1: now where in the world would i get prussian venison?

speaker1: mom, dad, i'm here. 
speaker2: we're in here, son.

speaker1: come give your old man a kiss or i'll kick your teeth in. 
speaker2: charlie, put on charlie pride, would ya? oh, i love charlie pride.

speaker1: may, shut it. 
speaker2: hey, william.
speaker3: on his stomach on the floor; watching
speaker4: hey, charlie.

speaker1: aye -- magic. 
speaker2: let's have a look at the re-play. william, move your head. look at the size of that ooy's heed. i'm not kidding. it's like an orange on a tooth pick.
speaker3: stuart, you're going to give the boy a complex.
speaker2: i'm not kidding. that's a huge noggin'. it has it's own weather system. it's a virtual planetoid. heed! move!
speaker3: is that enough potatoes, charlie?
speaker4: enough to recreate devil's tower in "close encounters".
speaker2: do i smell haggis?
speaker4: aye, you do.
speaker3: i'll put it in the frig.
speaker4: dad, what are you doing to tony now? why do you abuse his mind like this?
speaker2: that's the latest report from lyndon h. larouche, outlining how the queen and the rothschilds masterminded the soviet overthrow, so that they could reclaim lands they had annexed during the holy roman empire.
speaker1: you know a lot of this makes sense.
speaker4: i think you're suffering from the stockholm syndrome, where the hostages start to relate to their captors.
speaker2: listen, sonny jim, it's a known fact there's a society of the five wealthiest people in the world, called the pentaverate, who run everything and meet three times a year at a secret country mansion in colorado, known as "the meadows."
speaker4: and that's obviously why we haven't heard about it in the newspapers.
speaker2: that's right. they own the papers, smartass. and everything else. why do you think scotland's not been able to get independence? because the queen the pentavirate and those english dome heads in west minster won't have it.
speaker4: who are the other members of this pentaverate?
speaker2: the queen, the rothchilds, the gettys, the vatican, and colonel sanders before he went up. oh, i hated the colonel with his wee beady eyes. and that smug look on his face.
speaker4: dad how can you hate "the colonel?"
speaker2: because the colonel puts an addictive chemical in it that makes you crave it fortnightly.
speaker4: interesting... coo-coo
speaker3: would anyone like a juice? charlie, did i tell you, we bought a juice tiger?
speaker4: a juice tiger?
speaker3: aye, it's a juicer. it's part of my national enquirer, garth brooks diet. would you like potato juice?
speaker4: thank you, no.
speaker3: sherri's late.
speaker4: yeah, uh, sherri and i broke up.
speaker3: oh, you didn't. sherri was the daughter your father was never able to give me.
speaker4: i'm just not ready for marriage. i'm twenty-nine and my poems haven't even been published yet.
speaker2: but it's not just the poetry is it son? you're afraid if you get married you'll lose your muse. look at me, i was a strapping young butcher, at the height of my creative powers. when it came to de-boning a side of beef, there was nobody that could touch me. then i married your mother. and people would still stand in awe as i filleted a shoulder of lamb.
speaker3: maybe it's just as well not to get married, look at the news. where did i put it?
speaker2: heed. move that melon of yours into the bathroom and get the paper for your mother.
speaker4: that's not news, dad. that's i wouldn't wipe my with that paper.
speaker2: what are you talking about? it's the fifth highest circulating paper in the united states, i'll have you know.
speaker3: oh, here it is. mrs. x. the honeymoon murderer. she marries men under fake identities, and then murders them. she killed some german martial arts expert, and some plumber named ralph elliot. her whereabouts are unknown.
speaker2: scores! two nil. magic!
speaker1: ah, beautiful goal. we hold on the tv set.

speaker1: ah, you're steaming. 
speaker2: see you later, mrs. mackenzie.
speaker1: oh, you've turned into a italian bastard.
speaker3: see you later, mom. see you later, dad.
speaker4: fine. go! you've stayed your hour.

speaker1: excuse me. you wouldn't happen to have... 
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: oh, hi haggis, right? 
speaker2: it was a big hit.
speaker1: i remember you told me you were scottish, but do you really like haggis.
speaker2: no. i think it's repellent in every way. in fact, i think most scottish cuisine is based on a dare.
speaker1: can i help you? sorry, i'm really busy.
speaker2: look, um, my dad's a butcher, do you need a hand?
speaker1: well, actually, yes.
speaker1: can you get me four belgian porterhouses? do you know what a porterhouse looks like?
speaker2: i'm meat literate.
speaker3: yes, do you have any fresh blubber?
speaker2: i'll check. you want blubber, right?
speaker3: yeah.
speaker3: my parents are coming to town. you know how parents are. they'll drive you nuts.
speaker1: look, i'm really grateful. can i offer you some meat as payment? please, help yourself to some meat.
speaker2: i'm trying to be a vegetarian.
speaker1: trying to be a vegetarian?
speaker2: yeah, the problem is i really love hot-dogs.
speaker1: i think the meat industry invented hot-dogs to stop people from becoming vegetarians. there's got to be something i can do to repay you.
speaker2: you could take me to a nice romantic dinner.

speaker1: this reminds me of my ex-girlfriend. 
speaker2: i hate talking about old relationships.
speaker1: then let's not and say we did.
speaker2: that was easy -- what a nice guy. you've probably never done a mean thing in your life.
speaker1: you'd be surprised.
speaker2: i'd like to hear. name me something bad you've done in your life.
speaker1: are you kidding me?
speaker2: no. did you ever steal anything? you ever hit someone?
speaker1: well, i've been in fights. let me think.
speaker2: not one bad thing, charlie?
speaker1: tell me something bad you've done. and it better be bad. i mean, evil.
speaker2: how evil?
speaker1: really evil. like how many people have you brutally murdered?
speaker2: "brutal" is such a subjective word. i mean, what's brutal to one person might be totally reasonable to another.
speaker1: this just reminded her of that scene in "brian's song".
speaker2: actually, he just proposed to her. those are tears of joy.
speaker2: prost.
speaker3: danke, fraulein.
speaker1: you're very smart. it's a shame i'm going to have to destroy you.
speaker2: do bright women intimidate you?
speaker1: no, not at all.
speaker2: really, what do you look for in women you date?
speaker1: well, i know everyone always say "sense of humor", but i'd have to go with breast size. how about you? in a guy.
speaker2: income of course, and then... ...savings.
speaker1: me likey how you thinkey.

speaker1: i'll make us some tea. 
speaker2: hey, you know what this apartment needs? a really large oversized poster of atlantic city.
speaker1: i used to live there. that's where i had my first supermarket job.
speaker1: i only have chamomile. i hope that's all right.
speaker1: it's north-south. for health reasons. see... i had this friend, he was a martial arts expert. anyways, he used to sleep north-south. i don't know... it's a martial arts thing and it just sort of became a habit with me.
speaker1: late?
speaker2: no. no. not for me.
speaker1: who for then?
speaker2: who for then what?
speaker1: well, you looked at your watch and said it wasn't late for you... i wondered who it was late for.
speaker2: not me. no, sir. not here. maybe it is late.
speaker2: look, the truth is, yes, i had a great time, and i'd like to kiss you, but if we do kiss, then we'll kiss on the couch and if we kiss on the couch, then we'll kiss in the bedroom, and once you're in the bedroom -- well, the thing is, i always rush it. and this time i feel like maybe i should wait. maybe we should let it build naturally and grow, instead of just immediately spending the night together.
speaker1: i want to spend the night together.
speaker2: i have no problem with that.

speaker1: yes! yes! 
speaker1: yes ralph. i will. ralph.
speaker1: now now ralph!
speaker2: harriet...? harriet...? you were having a dream, or...? you kept saying the name ralph.
speaker1: ralph?
speaker2: ralph. i heard you say it.
speaker1: that's odd. just today i was thinking about, her. she's a friend.
speaker2: is she nice --? ralph...
speaker1: yeah. she's great.

speaker1: you know... with this drought in california total strangers are urged to shower together. 
speaker2: go away.
speaker1: oh i'm sorry. excuse me.

speaker1: hi. i'm really sorry. i must have scared the... i'm harriet's friend, charlie, and you must be... ralph? 
speaker2: i'm harriet's sister, rose. and this is harriet's note.
speaker2: 'dear charlie, i didn't want to wake you, make yourself at home, thanks for making me smile.' harriet.
speaker1: that's a very nice note.
speaker2: i'll make you some breakfast.
speaker1: gee, i'd love to but i'm running late.
speaker2: what would you say to blueberry pancakes, bacon, fresh squeezed grape juice and kona coffee?

speaker1: i'm sorry i didn't have any of those other things. 
speaker2: hey, that stuff'll kill you while fruit loops are light and probably reasonably high in fiber. i like apple jacks too.
speaker1: got 'em.
speaker2: so this is your apartment?
speaker1: yes. she's been here the past three months... ever since she came back from miami. i used to visit her occasionally. she didn't speak of me?
speaker2: she told me about a martial arts guy and there was some discussion about ralph...
speaker1: she spoke of them...?
speaker2: she spoke of the martial arts guy and screamed about ralph...
speaker1: well, you know harriet.
speaker2: actually, i really don't.
speaker1: but you did have with her?
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: yet you still don't know her. see, that's the problem with sex. it's not very revealing.
speaker2: my, look at the time.
speaker1: you should be careful, charlie.
speaker2: i am... usually. i just... you should know, this is very unusual that i would do this so soon, in this day and age particularly, but... we just really hit it off. we did. and...
speaker1: i'm gonna go now. i won't tell harriet that anything happened.
speaker2: but... nothing did happen.
speaker1: exactly. or she would be jealous. and when she gets jealous, we both know what she's capable of.
speaker2: no, we don't. you do, like i said, i just met her.
speaker1: you'll be okay, charlie. just be careful.

speaker1: hey, charlie. how you doin'? 
speaker2: good. good. look, fred... you got a lot of girlfriends, right? you know any girls named ralph?
speaker1: ralph? gee, charlie. isn't that a guy's name?
speaker2: well, not necessarily, but... never mind. thanks, fred.
speaker2: hey penny, i wanted to ask you -- you know some girls named ralph, right? i mean, that's a girl's name also, isn't it?
speaker3: i don't think so, charlie... uh...
speaker2: forget it. thanks.
speaker4: as they travel to the island.
speaker5: you know i've lived in this city all my life and i've never been to alcatraz.

speaker1: hello, everyone i'm a park ranger and i will be leading you on the tour. all the park rangers here at alcatraz were at one time guards, myself included. my name is john johnson, but everyone here calls me vicki. will you please follow me? 
speaker2: you're glowing, charlie. the man's in love.
speaker3: sssh... stop it. i'm trying to listen.
speaker1: this is the main cell block area. home to such famous criminals as al capone, micky cohen, joseph "dutch" critzer, and robert stroud, the famous bird man of alcatraz. follow me, please.

speaker1: this is the cell for solitary confinement, that over the years has come to be known as times square. 
speaker2: so did you and harriet?... you know...
speaker3: sssh i don't want to talk about it.
speaker2: with that look, you don't have to talk about it. the grin alone could get you five to seven years.
speaker3: tony, get your mind out of the gutter. all you need to know is that she's a sweet, kind and loving person.
speaker1: now this is something none of the other tour guides will tell you. in this particular cell block machine gunn kelly had, what we call in the prison system, a "bitch." and one day, in a jealous rage, kelly took a makeshift knife, or "shiv," and cut out his "bitch's" eyes.
speaker3: look, what can i tell you. i'm smitten. i'm in deep smit. i dunno. i just don't wanna talk about it, because then i start analyzing and that's not good for me.
speaker2: good. i think that's good. just let it happen.
speaker3: exactly. that's what's gonna be different this time. something strange happens, let it go. it's not my business... like ralph. she says ralph in her sleep.
speaker2: who's ralph?
speaker3: i don't know who ralph is. moreover, i don't want to know.
speaker2: good.
speaker1: and as if blinding his "bitch" wasn't enough retribution for kelly, the next day he and four other inmates took turns into the "bitch's" ocular cavity.
speaker3: exactly. tony, i'm happy. don't let me screw this one up.
speaker4: did you have a nice date last night?
speaker5: rose, i don't really --
speaker4: he disturbed me while i was naked in the shower this morning.
speaker5: yeah, he stayed over?
speaker4: i didn't mind. charlie and i laughed about it over breakfast.
speaker5: that's good.
speaker4: he said you had great last night.
speaker5: he did? yeah.
speaker4: he seems really stuck on you. i hope for you that it lasts.
speaker5: rose he's a sweet, kind and loving person. we like each other, but i don't want to think any further. it's taken me a long time to get back to dating, and i want to take things real steady this time.
speaker4: well, you can trust me not to tell him anything.
speaker5: he was quite happy not to talk about the past.
speaker4: i did a sketch of him.
speaker5: that's good.
speaker4: think i've caught him?
speaker5: the eyes are good.
speaker4: charlie really liked it.
speaker5: it's a good likeness.
speaker4: boy, i really hope it works out.
speaker5: rose, i don't wanna screw this one up.

speaker1: hey, uh... ralph...? 
speaker2: i'm gilbert.
speaker1: 

speaker1: you look great. 
speaker2: i was just getting dressed. what do you think of this skirt?
speaker1: honestly? i'd leave it off.
speaker2: so then you think i could go to a poetry concert like this?
speaker1: let's forget the poetry concert. it's already been nine hours since i last made love to you.
speaker2: come on we're meeting your best friend. i wanna look good. the second i go to the ladies room he's gonna tell you what he really thinks of me. he follows her to the bedroom door, constantly trying to kiss her.
speaker2: come on, charlie. we have to be there in fifteen minutes.
speaker1: fifteen minutes. perfect.
speaker1: maybe later.
speaker3: i thought of calling you.
speaker1: aaaahhh!
speaker3: to warn you, charlie. there are just some things you should know, about harriet.
speaker1: about harriet?
speaker3: about her past.
speaker1: i don't wanna know. i mean, look everyone has some skeletons in their past. i only care about the future. not the past.
speaker3: here's the thing. i may have to tell harriet.
speaker1: tell her what?
speaker3: that we're lovers.
speaker1: we're not lovers.
speaker3: i know, and it's a shame.
speaker2: i hope i'm not interrupting.
speaker1: no, not at all. we were just talking about... rose and i met yesterday, so...
speaker2: so i heard.
speaker2: so, don't you think we look alike?
speaker3: oh, we do not. harriet was always prettier than me. and a heck of a lot more popular. she always had boyfriends. the only thing i ever got was good grades.
speaker1: good grades are good.
speaker2: she's just being kind. show charlie one of your photographs, rose. rose is a great artist.
speaker3: no, harriet. i don't want to. they're not good.
speaker2: you're so modest. if i weren't here to brag for you, i just don't know... show it to him, rose. do it.
speaker1: it's beautiful...
speaker3: thanks.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker3: i dunno.
speaker1: what do you call it?
speaker3: i dunno.
speaker1: a lot artists don't like to title their work. they feel it biases the viewer.
speaker3: it is titled. it's called "i dunno".
speaker2: we should get going, charlie. thanks, rose... see you later.
speaker3: bye, charlie.
speaker1: rose, great to see you. we should all go out together some time. the three of us. that would be great. that would be... interesting.

speaker1: i think you're going to love alan ginsberg. he's great. 
speaker2: oh, i know all about him.
speaker3: hey charlie!
speaker3: sorry we're late.
speaker3: you must be harriet. i've heard a lot about you.
speaker1: this is harriet.
speaker3: oh. sorry. of course. i apologize. charlie described you as much older. and heavier.
speaker2: oh, he did...?
speaker1: thank you, tony. this is my best friend.
speaker3: and this is susan. charlie, you remember her from uncle giuseppi's.
speaker1: yes, i do.
speaker4: you're funny...
speaker3: i give susan one night.

speaker1: one more and you get your pick. 
speaker2: you do it.
speaker3: no, charlie. i'm the worst.
speaker4: come on, you'll be great...
speaker1: hey!
speaker3: sorry... i told you charlie.
speaker2: no, no, you're okay, you're just having control problems.
speaker2: i know this is really, really cheesy, but in a way this is one of the places in san francisco i'm most proud of.
speaker3: yeah, let's go in.

speaker1: well, this is it. 
speaker2: it'll be fine.

speaker1: mom, dad, we're here. 
speaker2: ah, charlie is this the wee harriet. ah, she's beautiful.
speaker3: thank you.
speaker2: she's so sweet. i hope you keep her. stuart, come out here. you tube.
speaker4: ah, it's the wee harriet.
speaker2: stuart, put your pants on.
speaker4: hold your horses. heed! pants!
speaker1: dad, what's al pacino doing on the scottish wall of fame?
speaker4: oh, that's for tony. so, charlie tells me you're a butcher. let's talk meat.
speaker1: dad, no one wants to talk shop. especially butcher shop.
speaker4: come here.
speaker1: ah! dad, dad i have a back zit, man it kills.
speaker3: i'm sorry. i just... you just surprised me. i'm sorry.
speaker4: i like this one charlie. she's quite a filly.
speaker3: i'm really embarrassed.
speaker4: don't be embarrassed about having a good strong butcher's grip. do you link your own sausage?
speaker2: oh, ignore him. come have a look at some photos of charlie when he was a wee'n.
speaker1: oh mom, don't start with the pictures.
speaker2: ah, charlie, lighten up. you've got a pickle up your ass.
speaker1: i'm gonna use the bathroom. you be okay alone with them?
speaker3: fine. don't worry about it. hurry.
speaker4: make sure there's paper, charlie.
speaker2: make sure you leave the seat down.
speaker1: ma, just show her the pictures.
speaker4: and light a match.
speaker2: he always leaves the seat up. he's gotta learn.

speaker1: this is charlie with his uncle ecky. he's a policeman in canada. and our cousins ruth and jack. he's just got a restraining order from his wife. she's a lovely girl. this is billy. he's a member of parliament. he drinks. 
speaker2: what a nice family you have.

speaker1: charlie was the cutest baby. 
speaker2: you okay in there, charlie? you didn't fall in, did you?
speaker3: jesus...

speaker1: so, that was some move you put on my dad, there. did you study karate, or...? 
speaker2: no. not officially. i dated a guy for a while who ran a studio.
speaker1: oh, the martial arts expert. the north-south guy. here in san francisco?
speaker2: actually, miami.
speaker1: was that before atlantic city, or after?
speaker2: oh, that was years ago. atlantic city was recent. i didn't care for atlantic city. a town full of gamblers and lounge singers.

speaker1: hey charlie! 
speaker2: is tony back there?

speaker1: o.k., tony. do you have the k673 form completed yet, that street vendor incident on powell street? 
speaker2: yes, captain.
speaker1: tony, do you mind my saying that you seem a little down?
speaker2: captain. it's about my work. about being a policeman.
speaker1: tony, if there's anything wrong, i'm here to listen.
speaker2: i know. and that's what's irritating, you're too nice.
speaker1: too nice!?
speaker2: yes, you're my captain for gods sakes. you should be constantly on my case, like the captain on starsky and hutch. once a week you should routinely haul my into your office, accuse me of being a maverick and complain to me that you're sick and tired of defending my screwball antics to the commissioner.
speaker1: well, as you may know, tony. i don't report to a commissioner. i report to a committee, some of whom are appointed, some elected and the remainder co-opted on a bi-annual basis. a quorum --
speaker2: police work should be all about running around, following up crazy hunches that turn out to be right, going out on a limb.
speaker1: well tony, i've never seen it that way. for me police work is all about following procedure and remaining accountable to the general public.
speaker2: captain! when i joined the police force, i thought i was going to be serpico and unfortunately i ended up being toma. i would have settled for beretta.
speaker1: that's interesting tony. i'm perturbed that you should be so disillusioned.
speaker3: hey, tony, i gotta talk to you.
speaker1: oh, hello, charlie. look, i'm in the way here. you guys probably have something you want to talk about, and tony, if you've still got stuff you want to sort out, please, you know where the suggestion box is.
speaker3: nice guy. hey, what's up?
speaker2: i'm having doubts about being a cop again. it's not like how it is on cop shows. all i do is fill out papers and reports.
speaker3: let me get this straight, your captain hasn't threatened to have you up on charges so fast you won't know what hit you?
speaker2: no! he's never once said to me that he was going to "throw the book at me so hard it'll knock my from here till tuesday." anyways what's up?
speaker3: have you heard of this case? mrs. x? she murders her husbands on their honeymoons and then changes her identity and marries again.
speaker2: i never heard of it. so what?
speaker3: curious, that's all. i read about it, and... i think i'm dating mrs. x.
speaker2: two words, charlie. get therapy. they have doctors that deal specifically with this illness.
speaker3: everything's adding up, tony. one of the victims was a martial arts expert. last night at dinner, she put a martial arts move on my dad.
speaker2: there about twenty thousand people in san francisco who are martial arts experts. should i arrest all of them too?
speaker3: if they also say ralph in their sleep i think it'd be a good start. ralph elliot. a plumber from san francisco. missing since his honeymoon.
speaker2: you're just getting scared. like the dream, you feel harriet could be the one, so you start to suspect her of things, 'cause deep down you're scared that if she is the one, you'll marry, and marriage to you is death.
speaker3: hey, don't analyze my dreams, okay? they're my dreams. analyze your own dreams. it's not a marrying thing, tony. it's a murdering thing. harriet lived in atlantic city, right? well so did this guy, right around the same time she left town.
speaker2: "larry leonard, a crooner who made a name for himself for being able to sing in six different languages the song "only you". does she know the song "only you?"
speaker3: i don't know. it hasn't come up yet.
speaker2: charlie, move past it. you're running your life by the national enquirer.
speaker3: what? it's the fifth highest circulating newspaper in the united states. mrs. x. please. look it up.

speaker1: there's no record of any deaths. all three of these guys were reported missing around the time of their honeymoon, but so were the wives. no pictures of any of the brides. for all we know they just picked up and moved away. 
speaker2: and ralph elliot, too?
speaker3: charlie, you're talking about three guys over a seven year span. that's hardly news. no deaths. elopement in this state, as of this day, is still not illegal.
speaker2: yeah well murder is. and this article says that these men were murdered by the same woman.
speaker1: mr. mackenzie, we've found that, most national enquirer articles are actually based on our own police reports. they take the facts and fabricate a story around them.
speaker3: it's true, charlie. you gotta realize that. i mean, personally, i would lie to you, but kathy... has this crazy notion of always telling the truth. you feel better now?
speaker2: it guess so. it's just... if i had a photo of harriet, i could show it to the relatives or friends of mrs. x's victims to identify her.
speaker3: charlie, listen to me! there is no mrs. x! drop it! okay?
speaker4: you're back. but harriet's not here yet.
speaker2: maybe i could wait.
speaker4: sure. that would be fine.
speaker2: inside? i was hoping...
speaker4: i'm glad you asked. i didn't want to be so forward. i mean, if you're waiting inside, then you feel obligated to entertain me and keep up the conversation just to be polite, and really your head might be totally elsewhere and then there's the chance that you would really want to talk and it's me who'd be busy, but in an attempt not to be rude, i sit there and listen to some story that you don't really want to tell and i don't really have time to hear. you know?
speaker2: i couldn't agree with you more.
speaker4: i think about a lot of things.
speaker2: look, if you have work to do, you go right ahead. i mean, to tell you the truth, i'd love to see your work.
speaker4: okay! what would you like me to do?
speaker2: no, i don't want to see you work. i was talking about your work. your photographs. that one that i saw was so, wonderful, and...
speaker4: harriet's far more talented than i am.
speaker2: well, i'm sure it's so subjective anyway and... rose, show me your photos.

speaker1: hey, these are some interesting photos here. very impressive. nice shots of sauselito and... some good shots. a lot of people wouldn't think to mix the two subjects, but they're really a natural together. hey, you wouldn't happen to have any pictures of harriet by chance, would you? 
speaker2: well, i don't think she'd wanna do this sort of...
speaker1: no, no, not that. just, in general some photos. any little snapshot would do.
speaker2: i doubt i'd have any. harriet hates being photographed.
speaker3: rose -- did i see charlie's car out in front?
speaker2: we're in here, harriet.
speaker3: what are you guys doing?
speaker1: oh, nothing. just looking through some of rose's work.
speaker2: ...charlie wanted a photo of you.
speaker1: and that. that too.
speaker3: why of me, charlie?
speaker1: well, sentimental reasons. something to remind me of you when we're not together.
speaker3: there, can you remember that?
speaker1: okay, it's just, i was gonna give one to my parents, too, and... another time would be fine. it's hardly a matter of life and death.

speaker1: where you been? 
speaker2: downstairs. i have a surprise for you.
speaker1: great. i just wanna do a quick twenty minutes on the stair master before bed.
speaker1: i'll do forty tomorrow.
speaker2: i got something much healthier for you than that.
speaker1: what is it?
speaker2: it's a health shake. eggs, malt, cinnamon, oranges. it's great. i mixed it up downstairs.

speaker1: oh, look, i'm full. dinner and... no... 
speaker2: you'll like it charlie.
speaker1: no, really, thanks.
speaker2: you won't try it. i spent twenty minutes making it.
speaker1: ummm. smells good. maybe i'll take some to the office tomorrow. i'm gonna brush my teeth. be right back.

speaker1: i'm gonna take a quick shower. 
speaker2: harriet, where did the shake go?
speaker1: what do you care? i drank it. you could have at least tried it. you make me feel bad sometimes, charlie. i don't know why.
speaker1: sorry. i'm a little sensitive. you didn't want to drink my milkshake. so what -- right?

speaker1: maybe we should turn the light back on. yeah that's better. 
speaker2: charlie, what's the matter?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: charlie...
speaker1: well, it's just... the tv. you can't even watch the news these days without getting depressed.
speaker2: i know, charlie. and it's not just that. look at the things people are doing. partners killing each other... i mean, you hear a story like that, and... who can you really trust these days?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: it's like, have you ever stood with someone at the edge of a cliff, or the edge of a subway platform, and you think, just for a split second, "what if i pushed him?"
speaker1: well, i don't really take the subway ever, so...
speaker2: i'm just making a point of how many times we trust people with our lives. i mean, look at us. if you didn't trust me, you would never be able to fall asleep.
speaker1: why do you say that?
speaker2: look at you, you're sleeping. look how vulnerable you are. i mean, i could do anything at that point.
speaker1: what could you do?
speaker2: anything. you're lying on your side, asleep, i could... stick a needle in your ear.
speaker1: aahhh!
speaker2: i'm just making a point of what a good relationship we have. goodnight, sweetheart.
speaker2: well, good night.
speaker1: good night.
speaker1: well... good night.
speaker2: good night.

speaker1: thank you very much, young man. i've gotta get all this stuff back to my children. 
speaker2: your children?
speaker1: when i say my children i mean my cats. you see my children moved out years ago, so all i've got is my cats. i have over one hundred of them.
speaker2: that's a lot of cats.
speaker3: charlie.
speaker1: you see this red toy? that's for the captain, he's finicky. and this blue one? that's for marco polo.
speaker2: do you have a name for all of your cats?
speaker1: oh, yes.
speaker1: let me see! there's winston churchill, reda sovine, thomas edison, andrew carnegie...
speaker2: ...he was scottish.
speaker1: wasn't he irish?
speaker2: actually he was scottish. trust me, i know these things.
speaker1: now that you say it, he was scotch.
speaker2: noooooo!
speaker2: nooooooo, scotch is a drink. scots are a people. sorry, that just always bugged me.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i didn't know it meant so much to you.
speaker2: hi, harriet.

speaker1: we find charlie at the marriage counter. 
speaker2: yes, sir, can i help you?
speaker3: i'd like to put in an announcement of my parents forty-fifth wedding anniversary.
speaker2: sure, it's $4.50 per word, and you've got a choice of standard or bold.
speaker3: bold, and here, i've written it out.
speaker4: hi, frank, busy week?
speaker5: i've only got two. it's dead around here.
speaker5: well, i've got this one guy, a tourist. he had a heart attack on a cable car.
speaker4: looks like he left his heart in san francisco.
speaker6: hey, that's a real person you're talking about.
speaker4: you're right, i'm sorry.
speaker5: well, there's this other guy elliot, ralph. plumber, disappeared four months ago. body found in a sewer.
speaker4: i guess he took his work too seriously, and his life went down the drain.
speaker3: did they mention anything about his wife?
speaker4: you're right, i feel bad. point taken. i'm mean, these are real people we're talking about.
speaker3: no, i'm serious. did he mention the wife?
speaker4: you made your point. i was wrong to make a joke about a person's life.
speaker3: i really want to know about his wife.
speaker4: o.k., you win. i'm a bad, bad person.
speaker5: frank take it easy.
speaker4: no, he's right! i'm for i'm one insensitive
speaker3: is there any mention of the wife? at all?

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i think you're a terrific woman. i just don't think we should see each other anymore.
speaker1: why not? and tell me the truth.
speaker2: the truth. okay. the truth is...
speaker2: the truth is... i'm afraid that you are... you're going to laugh.
speaker1: i don't think so.
speaker2: okay... the truth is that i'm afraid you're going to ki... leave me.
speaker1: i'm going to "cleave you?" what does that mean?
speaker2: leave me. not "cleave me." reject me. and so i decided to take matters into my own hands and get it over with by...
speaker1: rejecting me.
speaker2: purely preventive... it's not anything you've done.
speaker1: i know that... so why are you leaving me?
speaker2: i never wanted to hurt you.
speaker1: you haven't. at least you left early on. so, that's it, then. i've got a lot of work to do. now, where were we?

speaker1: two hours and four minutes. tony, i need you, and two hours and four minutes later you show up. 
speaker2: sorry. i know it was irresponsible to stay at the drug bust until it was over, but... what happened?
speaker1: i'm gonna tell you, but when i do, just say nothing. don't judge me. just be my friend. okay?
speaker2: fine. okay.
speaker1: i broke up with harriet.
speaker2: you're an
speaker1: what's your point?
speaker2: i'm sorry, i just... why?
speaker1: tony, she's a killer. the... everything.
speaker2: but nothing's proven. the only thing you're actually sure she did so far is she's treated you like a king.
speaker1: i dunno, tony, i just...
speaker2: besides, everyone has something going on with them. i mean, you can't find everything in one person. i mean, she's bright, she's funny, she's independent. so maybe, and it's really just a maybe, she kills her husbands. marriage is give and take, man. you take the good with the bad.

speaker1: hey, charlie. 
speaker2: hi. how're you doing. good, huh?
speaker1: i'm okay. this is michael. michael, this is charlie mackenzie.
speaker3: i know. why don't you two talk. i'm going over there to buy some magazines.
speaker2: that good looking and he can read!
speaker1: i'm teaching him. i heard you have a new girlfriend.
speaker2: we broke up. there were problems.
speaker1: problems?
speaker2: difficulties.
speaker1: let me guess... she's a murderer.
speaker2: why did you just say that?
speaker1: what else is left?

speaker1: hello... 
speaker2: not that it matters anymore, but i thought you should know -- someone just turned themselves in for the murder of ralph elliot.
speaker1: really? did she confess to the other murders?
speaker2: just the plumber so far, but she'll come along. a little old lady from pacific heights. said he overcharged her on a leaking sink.
speaker1: really. leaky sink, huh?
speaker2: anyway, crime to stop. gotta go. i'll catch you later.
speaker3: charlie races along towards harriet's house.

speaker1: harriet, it's me, charlie. 
speaker2: go away, charlie.
speaker1: i've gotta talk to you, cause i miss you, and i made a mistake... and if you give me another chance i'll change. i will. i promise. i'll get help, or therapy, or... yeah, that'll be great. therapy. even twice a week. i'll check with my insurance to see if i'm covered, but forget that. harriet...
speaker2: you really hurt me.
speaker1: i'll make it up to you, can we at least talk.
speaker2: sure, talk.
speaker3: hi, charlie.
speaker1: aaahhhhhh.
speaker3: trust your first instincts, charlie. you never do. it's your big mistake. that and the haircut.
speaker1: i don't want to lose you.
speaker2: you didn't lose me. you rejected me.
speaker1: i'm unrejecting you.
speaker2: how do i know you won't reject me again?
speaker1: i love you.

speaker1: i don't mean to be a pain, but i'm a stewardess, and i have an early flight out in the morning. can you please keep your music down? 
speaker2: i thought it was coming from here.
speaker1: but someone keeps shouting your name over and over.

speaker1: i've been there for almost a year. i only planned on stay with her for a few weeks, but she gets upset every time i say i'm moving. 
speaker2: you were close as kids?
speaker1: i pretty much raised her. you know the scene. depressed mother... withdrawn father. my dad was a photographer too.
speaker2: really?
speaker1: he hated it. trudging off to those weddings every saturday night. other people's celebrations he called it. he said sometimes they didn't even offer him a glass of soda. he had a small studio, and every year at christmas he'd take a picture of me and rose and put it in the window on a little card that said "seasons greetings." awful pictures. it's like... i could see his pain in my face. anyway, me and my sister worked with our "childhood issues" in different ways. she became a photographer and i became phobic about having my picture taken. it's quite a family.
speaker2: where are they now? your parents?
speaker1: dead. car accident.
speaker3: harriet, its for you.
speaker1: charlie, i want you to meet a friend of mine. say hi to ralph.
speaker2: ralph?
speaker2: oh, like ralph, the lady carpenter in green acres!
speaker1: this is charlie.
speaker2: i love you!
speaker4: it's nice to meet you.
speaker2: nice? it's more than nice. it's great to meet you. it's fantastic to meet you. i just, i can't tell you how glad i am. ralph. really. i am.
speaker4: well, thank you, i've heard a lot of nice things about you too, and...
speaker2: oh, ralphie, i love you.
speaker1: i'll leave you guys alone. have a great time.
speaker2: i'm naked, aren't i?
speaker1: why, yes, you are.
speaker2: i should really get dressed now.
speaker2: call me.
speaker4: friendly guy.

speaker1: happy anniversary to you... 
speaker2: okay, everyone come and get a piece of cake and some milk.
speaker3: hey dad, i got an anniversary present for you...
speaker4: i'm proud of you, son. i'm proud of you. i just wanna propose a toast. to my wife. forty five years ago today may and i got married. some of you were there, some of you weren't born yet, some of you are now dead, but... we both said, "i do" and we haven't agreed on a single thing since. but, i'm glad i married you may cause... it could have been worse and besides... i still love you.
speaker3: harriet, i wanna talk to you.
speaker5: boy, you really made some impression with ralph. she can't get over you.
speaker3: i'm just so happy for you to have friends like ralph. what a great friend to have.
speaker5: is everything all right, charlie? you're perspiring.
speaker3: harriet... marry me.
speaker5: what?
speaker3: i want to have a wedding. with you.
speaker5: no.
speaker3: please.
speaker5: i don't know, charlie. it's so good like it is. why don't we just live together first?
speaker3: because, i love you and i want you to marry me and be with me for 45 years. i want you to have my children, and i want to have your children. i know that sounds like a lot of children, and they might not all get along, but... i'm finally ready to trust you and to make a commitment. marry me, harriet, please. be my wife.
speaker4: i'd like to thank charlie for throwing us this party. i hope some day you have the same great 45 years that we've had.
speaker5: yes.
speaker3: you will?
speaker5: let's get married, charlie.
speaker6: hey, sorry i'm so late. what's happening?
speaker3: nothing. nothing at all. just two little things... that woman over there in the corner... she's harriet's friend, and her name is ralph.
speaker6: no
speaker3: and secondly... that woman over there... that's harriet, and we're getting married.
speaker6: fantastic... what did i tell you. she's a great girl. and the last thing in the world she'd be is a murderer.

speaker1: now, mr. mackenzie, if you will take this woman to be your wife, through thick and thin, for better or for worse, please say: "i do"... 
speaker2: i do...
speaker1: now harriet, if you will take this man, through good times and bad, for ever and ever, as your husband, please say "i do"...
speaker3: i do.
speaker1: now charlie... kiss the beautiful bride!
speaker4: let's get pissed.

speaker1: you know golden gate park was designed by a scotsman, macclaren, which is who macclaren park was named after. the others agree heartily. 
speaker2: charlie, get this down your neck.
speaker3: auntie molly if i have another one i'll end up underneath the table with my kilt over my head.
speaker4: where's harriet?
speaker3: i don't know. oh, there she is.
speaker3: a little hungry, were you?
speaker5: what are you...!
speaker5: sorry. the flash just...

speaker1: this is teenage fan club. they're from scotland. 
speaker2: they're great.
speaker1: we'll have the whole lodge to ourselves practically.
speaker2: i can't wait, charlie.
speaker1: i wish you could be me, so you could know how great it feels to be with you.
speaker2: it sounds wonderful
speaker1: do you think that would be a good line for a poem?
speaker2: honestly? it sounds a little hallmark.
speaker1: yeah, it's a little seals and croft. i have a habit of sabotaging relationships, and there were a million times during me and you that i could have blown this, and i just thank that i didn't...

speaker1: o.k., spiletti, i got word from upstairs that you been pokin' your nose into that ralph elliot case. 
speaker2: yes, captain.
speaker1: don't "yes, captain" me, spiletti. you're outta line. this is strictly homicide.
speaker2: captain, i got this friend...
speaker1: friend? yeah, we all got friends, spiletti. i'm warning you, stay away from this one. back off, italian boy. you're getting too close to this one.
speaker2: captain, i know what i'm doing. trust me. what's the news.
speaker1: i can't believe i'm doing this, but that girl who confused to ralph elliot's murder also confessed to other murders.
speaker2: i knew she would! i knew it!
speaker1: yeah, apparently she also confessed to killing abe lincoln, julius caesar, and warren g. harding. she's a nut, spiletti!
speaker2: oh, my i gotta go!
speaker1: yeah, screw this one up spiletti and you'll be writing parking tickets for the rest of your days.
speaker2: i won't let you down, captain.
speaker2: that's much better captain.
speaker1: you think so? well, thank you very much.

speaker1: you want anything? 
speaker2: lamb chops, creamed spinach, stuffed tomatoes and a hershey bar.
speaker2: if they don't have all that, i'll just take the hershey bar.

speaker1: what do you keep looking behind us for? is someone following you, or...? 
speaker2: they were. i think they're gone.
speaker1: what do you mean, they were?
speaker2: the gas station guy. i thought he was chasing us for a while, but i guess he stopped.
speaker1: the gas station guy? why would the gas station guy chase us.
speaker2: i don't know, charlie. i guess for not paying.
speaker1: what do you mean not paying? you didn't pay him for the gas.
speaker2: i forgot to pay... i didn't want to be away from you for any longer.
speaker1: so, you just left.
speaker2: yes. and you're an accomplice.
speaker1: i'm not sure i understand.
speaker2: look, charlie, don't you get it? we're a team.

speaker1: oh, hi! 
speaker2: what is it with the women in your family?
speaker1: i was just doing a murder series in honor of the wedding.
speaker2: hey, this is real blood.
speaker1: yes, harriet, give it to me. she's a butcher. ...she owns a butcher shop.
speaker2: i need a picture of harriet.
speaker1: sorry. no can do.
speaker2: you took a picture at the party. i saw it.
speaker1: it didn't come out.
speaker2: look, rose. i need a photo.
speaker1: the picture didn't come out. it was unflattering. in made her look ten pounds heavier. she's my sister.
speaker2: she's been implicated in a crime. i need the photo to eliminate her as a suspect.
speaker1: and if she's not innocent. if she's, you know, "quirky?"
speaker2: if she's "quirky" we'll save charlie's life.

speaker1: it's like a castle, charlie. it's so beautiful. 
speaker2: welcome to the dry creek. you just beat the rainstorm. two hours later and the roads'd probably be closed.
speaker3: great. if you could help us with the luggage, we have these two in the back seat and...
speaker3: harriet? what are you doing honey?

speaker1: welcome, sir. we have you with us for four nights, mr. mackenzie. dinner reservations are at eight-thirty. 
speaker2: great. sounds terrific.
speaker1: also, you might wanna prepare some candles by the bed. we're expecting the rainstorm to get even worse. we might even lose the power tonight.
speaker2: did you hear that, harriet? a storm. i can't think of anything more romantic than the two of us trapped in our room in the middle of a rain storm. you okay, harriet?
speaker3: just a little head-ache. excuse me, is there a drug store in the hotel? i want to get some aspirin.
speaker1: right beyond those trees, ma'm. anything you need.
speaker3: thanks. don't go anywhere. i'll be right back.
speaker1: you think she's really got a head- ache?
speaker2: what?
speaker1: ah, nothing. here's your key. you're in the oak room.

speaker1: circuits are out from the storm. 
speaker1: keep trying the hotel. tell the chief i just chartered a plane up to oregon.
speaker2: see that spiletti -- a gray hair! every day, spiletti, i find another one. and that's all due to you. get out there, and catch me some bad guys!
speaker1: not now, captain.
speaker2: sorry.

speaker1: this is the best honeymoon i could ever imagine, harriet. if we had to pack and go home right now, i'd still think it was the greatest honeymoon ever. 
speaker1: don't you agree, harriet? harriet?
speaker1: what? what are you crying? what is it?
speaker2: it's nothing. it's just... i was just thinking... we're married now. and i always wanted to try and have kids, and...
speaker1: so do i. look, there's nothing more i'd like to do than have, kids, or...
speaker2: it's just, i get scared that certain things will happen, or...
speaker1: what are you talking about? you're gonna be a great mom. i know you will.
speaker2: it's not that, charlie.
speaker1: what then?
speaker2: you're gonna laugh.
speaker1: tell me. of course i'm not gonna laugh. kids is a big thing. it's hard. i'm sure i have the same fears.
speaker2: if we have kids, charlie, things happen. kids are healthy and fine, and some aren't, and i don't know if i could live with myself if i gave birth to a child with webbed feet.
speaker1: webbed feet?
speaker2: you're laughing.
speaker1: no, i'm not laughing.
speaker2: you think that's silly?
speaker1: no, no. that's a natural fear. i've thought about that fear.
speaker2: it really worries me, charlie.
speaker1: well, look, they have, doctors -- i assume -- that deal, only with, webbed feet. and, forbid, and i'm talking strictly hypothetically, should that happen, we'll find one.
speaker2: you're the greatest charlie.
speaker1: thanks. we should get ready for dinner.

speaker1: out your left side, you can see the sierra nevada, which is the largest mountain range west of the rockies... 
speaker2: great. rockies. i don't care. oregon. move.

speaker1: you almost ready? the first seating is in five minutes. 
speaker2: i just wanna look good for you, charlie. that's all.
speaker1: i'm sure you look great. i'm sure you look...
speaker2: do i look okay, charlie?
speaker1: yes. well...
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: nothing. you kind of look like tammy faye baker right now.
speaker2: oh, yeah.

speaker1: as we prepare to land, we can see off to our left lake shanony, which is... 
speaker2: just land. don't worry about lake shanony. i don't give a about lake shanony.

speaker1: ...we're honored to be here for this very special day in... 
speaker2: i'm sorry to interrupt, sir. there's a phone call for you from town. they say it's quite urgent.
speaker3: hello?
speaker4: charlie, you okay?

speaker1: great. couldn't be better. 
speaker2: charlie, listen to me! it's her! harriet is mrs. x! she killed ralph and the two other men!
speaker1: look, that's great -- it just so happens though, that i met... ralph, and much to my delight, not only is she alive, but she's female. i thought i told you. harriet looks at charlie, very suspiciously. he looks back at her, and tries to smile, pretending that he is having a pleasant, and completely irrelevant conversation.
speaker2: rose had a picture. it checked out. it's her, charlie. she is the murderer.
speaker3: charlie, your food is getting cold.
speaker1: so, what do i do?
speaker2: i called the police. all the roads are closed, but they're on their way. in the mean time just...
speaker1: hello? hello?
speaker3: what's a matter, charlie?
speaker1: the phone just went dead. i was on the phone and it went dead.
speaker4: that's quite common, sir. i'm sure the lines'll be out in the whole city 'til tomorrow. enjoy your meal, sir.
speaker3: what happened, charlie?
speaker1: nothing... nothing happened. just the lines are down. phone lines.
speaker5: how about the traditional bride and groom dance?
speaker6: come on. it's a tradition.
speaker5: excuse me. could i cut in on your dance?
speaker1: of course. sure...

speaker1: i need your help! you have to help me! i've married a...! 
speaker2: hello, charlie.
speaker3: let's take 'em to their room.
speaker4: yeah, i'm sure they've had enough of these crowds for one night.
speaker1: my dinner. i didn't finish my dinner yet.
speaker2: smile, charlie. act like you're having a good time.

speaker1: i'm sorry, sir. the roads are all closed. we can't rent any cars this evening. 
speaker2: you have to rent me something. i've gotta get up there. my friend's in danger...

speaker1: have a good night, you two. 
speaker2: come on in. stay for a nightcap.
speaker3: no, you two wanna be alone. see you.
speaker2: stay for a nightcap!
speaker3: sir, i really don't think i should

speaker1: excuse me, sir, i'm with the san francisco police department. i'm on official business and i'm afraid i have to commandeer your vehicle. 
speaker2: no.
speaker1: what do you mean no?!
speaker2: i happen to know for a fact that you don't have the power to commandeer my vehicle.
speaker1: this is true. please can i commandeer your vehicle?
speaker2: well, where are you going?
speaker1: to the dry creek lodge.
speaker2: i'll give you a lift.
speaker1: well, i don't want a lift, i really want to commandeer the vehicle. please just let me commandeer the vehicle.
speaker2: why don't you just let me drive you there? really, i don't mind, it's on my way.
speaker1: you're not going to bend on the commandeering thing are you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, if we get stopped will you at least let me say that i commandeered the vehicle, but i let you drive?
speaker2: i'm uncomfortable with that.
speaker1: please?
speaker2: all right.

speaker1: i heard you on the phone before, charlie. there's something i've got to tell you. 
speaker2: harriet, i...
speaker1: i've been married before.
speaker2: i already know.
speaker1: about my husbands?
speaker2: yes. and i was meaning to have a word with you. we could get an annulment.
speaker1: aaahhhhhhh!
speaker2: aaaaah, rose, i never thought i'd be so glad to see you.
speaker2: maybe the phones are working again by now.
speaker2: 'dear, harriet. i just can't handle the commitment. i'm leaving you.' signed, 'charlie.'
speaker2: what the is this? i didn't write this?
speaker2: what the
speaker3: charlie. why did you marry harriet? i warned you not to marry her, didn't i? i warned all of them. but none of them listened to me. they all went ahead and married her. she's the pretty one. where's harriet? what have you done with my sister, harriet?
speaker2: nothing, rose.
speaker3: if you've done something to my sister, harriet, i swear to i'll kill you.

speaker1: charlie, did you like your note? i thought it was pretty accurate. i did all the husbands' notes. i can forge anyone's handwriting, i can write in anyone's style. see, i'm an artist. harriet isn't an artist. sure she could get a husband, but she could never have done this. and you know what i'm most proud of? 
speaker2: what's that, rose?
speaker1: harriet never knew. she thought they all just left her. i protected her. she's my sister.
speaker3: charlie!
speaker4: tony, is that you? it's me, harriet. i'm in here.
speaker4: tony, rose is trying to kill charlie. they're out on the ledge.
speaker3: get on the floor and put your hands behind your back.
speaker4: sure, anything. you've got to save charlie.

speaker1: look! it's charlie! 
speaker2: nice try.
speaker1: i swear to you... it was charlie... look! now there's rose!
speaker2: no you don't.
speaker1: i beg you... look! it is rose.
speaker2: oh no, not again. aaaaah! rose.

speaker1: i hate to bother you on your honeymoon, charlie, but... 
speaker2: thank i'm sorry i doubted you, but i thought you were the killer, but you were acting pretty strange?
speaker3: i thought you were going to leave me, like the others. thank they were just murdered. i thought they were always leaving me.

speaker1: the crowd goes crazy. 
speaker2: thank you very much.

