speaker1: truman! truman! 
speaker1: nothing's there. it's the same as this. come down,

speaker1: gimme a copy of "the sydney morning herald". 
speaker2: we ran out.
speaker1: thanks anyway.

speaker1: i wanna be a chiropractor like my dad. 
speaker2: tell the class what a chiropractor does, douglas.
speaker1: he helps people by fixing their backs, sister olivia.
speaker2: that's right, douglas. perhaps i'll be your first patient.
speaker2: what about you, truman?
speaker3: i want to be an explorer ...like

speaker1: ...okay, okay, let's call it what it is... i'm not gonna lie to you...life insurance is 
speaker1: ...just think about what i've been saying and lemme...hello?...
speaker1: can you connect me with directory inquiries in sydney, australia? ...er, yes. do you have a listing for a lauren powers... ...nothing listed?...what about a

speaker1: how's it goin', truman? 
speaker2: not bad. i just won the state lottery.
speaker1: good. good.

speaker1: hold on, truman. i got somethin' to show ya. 
speaker1: the flagship of christoforo...our genoese navigator, huh? i know you love this like me.
speaker2: not me. you got the wrong man.
speaker1: see ya tomorrow, truman.

speaker1: hello?...i'm sorry, i got more than enough insurance. 
speaker2: hey, burbank, i got a bridge-buyer in stapleton i need you to cloes by four.
speaker3: stapleton on staten island?
speaker2: you know another one?
speaker3: i can't do it.
speaker2: a half hour across the bay. sea air. do you good.
speaker3: no, i... ...i got an appointment uptown.
speaker2: this is a sure thing.

speaker1: let's go further, daddy! let's go further! 
speaker2: it's getting late, truman.

speaker1: i can't believe he's taking the long way. 
speaker2: he'll never make it.

speaker1: i'm here to see a mr hamilton. 
speaker2: you from the insurance company? you missed him.
speaker1: when will he be back?
speaker2: vacation. two months. he waited as long as he could. you was supposed to be here by four. a clock on the wall reads 4.l2pm.

speaker1: you wanna read to me? 
speaker2: please...
speaker3: now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends.
speaker1: we're gonna tell you how it ends, baby.
speaker3: don't you wanna know how it ends?

speaker1: thanks. 
speaker1: he did nothing.
speaker2: physical violence paralyzes him. always has.

speaker1: i got it free with the tune-up. 
speaker1: you missed a section.

speaker1: do they hurt? 
speaker2: i was afraid i'd seize up during cross. one of the keys kept sticking.
speaker1: is he gonna take the stand?
speaker2: no point. two eye witnesses saw him near the dumpster where they found the legs. she flexes her arthritic wrists.
speaker2: you gonna eat before you leave?
speaker1: i'll get something out.
speaker2: did something happen today?
speaker1: what could happen?

speaker1: ouch. whose nuts were those? 
speaker2: mine.
speaker2: i gotta get out, marlon.
speaker1: yeah? outta what?
speaker2: outta my job, outta queens...
speaker2: it doesn't mean anything.
speaker1: sure and go where?
speaker2: see here, this is queens. all the way round here, australia. you can't get any further away before you start coming back. y'know, there're still places in australia where no human being has ever set foot.
speaker1: so when are you leaving?
speaker2: it's not that simple. takes money, planning. you can't just up and go. oh, i'm gonna do it, don't worry about that. i just gotta move slow. pick a moment. bonus time's just around the corner. soon as i get a retaining wall built on the back of the house i can start thinking about selling up...and i'll be gone. up and away on that big steel bird. i'm going, don't you worry about that.
speaker1: i never knew anybody who got out.

speaker1: tick-fucking-tock. that's the problem, marlon. i'm thirty-four. i'm older than christ. 
speaker1: where do the dreams go, marlon?
speaker2: you win.
speaker1: i'm
speaker1: you really think it could've dropped off an airliner?
speaker2: sure. it's halogen. you oughta report it. you coming for a drink?
speaker1: i can't tonight.

speaker1: what are you doing? come to bed. 
speaker2: i figure we could scrape together eight thousand.
speaker1: oh. everytime you and marlon--
speaker2: --we could around the world for a year on that.
speaker1: and then what, truman? we'd be back to where we were five years ago. you're talking like a teenager.
speaker2: maybe i
speaker1: we said we'd try for a baby. isn't that enough of an adventure?
speaker2: that can wait. i want to get away. see some of the world. explore.
speaker1: you want to be an explorer? you mean like all the other great explorers from queens? you don't even have a passport, truman. i bet you don't even know how to get one. the words sting. truman turns away. seeing the pain she's caused, she changes tack.
speaker1: this'll pass. everybody thinks like this now and then. come to bed.

speaker1: how can they have a child? 
speaker2: it's not gonna be his, you
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: you think she'd go through with it? guess i always thought they'd adopt.

speaker1: it left him with more than his obvious fear of the water. it's as if he felt his father had gone beyond his limitations and he vowed never to repeat the mistake. he was never the same curious little boy again. 
speaker2: we're all born with a pound of cocaine up our nose. by the time we're eleven it runs out.
speaker1: half the people i knew named their babies after him.

speaker1: daddy... 
speaker1: hey, stop! stop!!
speaker2: hey!
speaker1: two, four, oh, six.
speaker1: outta the way! outta the way! the bus is escaping.

speaker1: what the are you trying to pull?! 
speaker2: i'm sorry! i'm sorry! no harm done!
speaker1: i oughta you up!
speaker1: get the outta here.

speaker1: what're you doing? the man told you there's no such bus. 
speaker2: he's lying. two, four, oh, six was definitely the number.
speaker2: i never believed he was dead.
speaker1: c'mon, truman, a lotta times they don't find a body. you know what the currents are like in that water.
speaker2: you had to see his face when that wave hit. he wasn't scared marion. it was like he was expecting it, waiting for it. he knew it was coming.
speaker1: why would he fake it? he's not elvis presley.

speaker1: you think i imagined it, don't you? 
speaker2: i think you're missing your dad. the anniversary was yesterday, wasn't it?
speaker2: you got sand in your cuffs.
speaker1: maybe you're right. if only the old woman hadn't left her dog behind.

speaker1: don't you dare go in. truman. i just got her off to sleep. 
speaker2: it was dad. i swear.
speaker1: well, the next time he shows up. bring him over. until then, i'm not saying a word about this to mom and neither are you.
speaker2: if it wasn't him, it was his twin. can you think of a reason he'd want to hide from us?
speaker3: i know a reason he'd want to hide from

speaker1: i'm telling you he's alive! 
speaker2: you did well.

speaker1: we've tightened security. 
speaker1: why would he do this to us?
speaker2: old age. sentiment. you play someone's father all those years, you

speaker1: the freak wave will strike from the starboard side. remember, you don't go to the diver. the diver goes to you. 
speaker1: ...good! good!...of course, on the day you only surface once you're safely beyond the cove...try it one more time...you okay?

speaker1: what're you doing out here? 
speaker2: fixing the mower.
speaker2: i saw my father on state street dressed as a homeless man.
speaker2: what do you want?
speaker1: i made macaroni.
speaker2: i gotta go out. about a replacement... ...mower blade.

speaker1: bout time you got this thing cleaned. don't tell me you bin makin' your old lady wear it. 
speaker1: do they still make this stuff?

speaker1: he's re-created the event on and off for a number of years. we've never understood what prompts him to indulge the fantasy, or for that matter what inspired such a painfully shy boy to approach her in the first place... 
speaker1: we'd noticed them making eyes at each other for some weeks but never thought he'd say anything. she was a year older, wrote poetry, way out of his league...
speaker2: hi.
speaker3: see you in class.
speaker2: lauren, right?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: look. i was wonder--
speaker4: --i can't go out with you.
speaker2: i haven't asked you yet.
speaker4: well when you do, that's my answer. i'm sorry. it's not up to me.
speaker2: why, you married?
speaker2: i'm not asking you to have my children, just a pizza. how about saturday?
speaker4: no.
speaker2: friday?

speaker1: we knew we were taking a risk. she hadn't been properly coached, but we were torn... he'd summoned the courage to make the approach...we wanted to reward that. of course she took full advantage... 
speaker2: i never knew this place existed.
speaker2: come on! come on! it's wonderful!
speaker3: i...i can't.
speaker2: that's right. oh, i'm sorry.
speaker3: why? you've got nothing to be sorry about. has someone been talking to you?
speaker2: get me out of here. i don't want to be here.
speaker2: my name's not lauren! it's

speaker1: in a minute someone's going to come and stop me talking to you. 
speaker2: who? there's no one around.
speaker1: you remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like magellan. and your teacher, sister olivia said, "you're too late, truman. there's nothing left to explore." and all the other kids laughed.
speaker2: how do you know about that?
speaker1: it doesn't matter. you've forgotten about that boy, truman. you got scared. just because something happens, doesn't mean you can't take another chance in your life.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker1: there isn't much time. just listen. everybody's pretending truman. everybody but
speaker1: everywhere,
speaker2: hey!
speaker3: get in the car, lauren!
speaker2: who are
speaker1: no he's not! he's just saying that!
speaker2: shut your mouth!
speaker2: leave her alone!
speaker1: don't listen to him, truman. make yourself deaf. come find me.
speaker3: don't bother! we're moving to australia. new york's done something to her head.
speaker4: why did he say australia? why couldn't he have said new jersey?

speaker1: you want me to do it again? i think i could do it better. 
speaker2: no...thank you.

speaker1: veronica, what do you know for sure? 
speaker2: for sure?
speaker2: on the house.

speaker1: when he decided to go after sylvia, we were forced to intervene once again... 
speaker2: i've got something to tell you, sis.
speaker3: i've got something to tell you too.
speaker2: i'm going to australia.
speaker3: mom's real sick.

speaker1: can i help? 
speaker2: i have an appointment at, er...diamond enterprises.
speaker1: they went bust.
speaker1: you gotta leave.
speaker2: what're they doing?
speaker3: you gotta leave.
speaker2: just tell me what the hell's going on?
speaker1: we're re-modelling.
speaker2: like what're they doing?

speaker1: you don't tell me, i'll get you investigated! 
speaker2: investigate what? you're trespassing!
speaker3: you can't--
speaker1: --i know.

speaker1: you ever been into the amt building? 
speaker2: not since they begun reconstruction. what're you doing with that?
speaker1: i'm going to visit a site.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: because i never do.
speaker2: that's why we got adjusters.
speaker1: you got a problem with me going?
speaker2: i got a problem with you not doing your job, burbank. you already screwed up once this week.
speaker1: let me worry about that.
speaker2: 680 west 89th.

speaker1: when was the fire? 
speaker2: week ago.
speaker1: how come it's still smoking?
speaker2: started up again. kids.
speaker1: says here it burnt to the ground.
speaker2: wishful thinking maybe?
speaker1: someone send you to tell me all this?
speaker2: you the one askin' questions.

speaker1: small world. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: you don't remember? two days ago i gave you my meatball sandwich in the park. you were in a wheelchair. same sneakers.

speaker1: marlon. i've gotta talk to you. 
speaker2: truman! sorry, i'm up against it today.
speaker1: i've fallen over something, marlon.
speaker2: are you okay? you look like
speaker1: it's big, marlon. you wouldn't believe who's in on it.
speaker2: in on

speaker1: something's definitely in the air. my last delivery, a kid got crushed to death. tilting a vending machine. they won't even let me take the rest of the day off. 
speaker2: do it, anyway.
speaker2: i'm deadly serious. marlon. we can't talk here. i'm being followed.

speaker1: is someone leanin' on you, tru? cos i got 
speaker2: i don't know. could be. one thing's certain. the key is spontoneity. be unpredictable. they can't stand that. that's why we've got to get outta here. can you come with me?
speaker1: where're we going?
speaker2: the beach.

speaker1: you remember, moses, it used to end right there, before the expansion. 
speaker2: christof, the cracks are starting to show.
speaker1: i'll paper over them.
speaker3: truman's had bouts of paranoia before and recovered.
speaker2: no, not like this. it's compromised.

speaker1: you know why they're so nervous. the birth of truman's child is going to double revenue. for sake don't let him upstage you. you've been grooming a successor. 
speaker2: he's not ready.

speaker1: what're we doing here, truman? 
speaker2: this is where it started.
speaker1: where

speaker1: there were a hundred people on the beach that day. everybody knew what was going on except me. 
speaker2: i don't want to put you down but why would anybody go to all this trouble over you?
speaker1: maybe i've been mistaken for somebody else.
speaker1: a guy with the same name as me in time magazine. it ain't a common name so i looked out for it. but the day it came out, every newstand was sold out. no library had it. i even wrote off for a back-issue. never seen a copy to this day.
speaker1: maybe i'm being set up for something. you ever feel like that, marlon? like your whole life has been building to something?
speaker2: a coincidence. haven't you ever heard of a coincidence?
speaker1: i'm a walking coincidence. i can't count 'em. no something's happening, marlon. i've got to get to the bottom of it.
speaker2: of

speaker1: all i got on me is the takings from the machines. why do you need it? 
speaker2: i'm going away for a while.

speaker1: we could do it right here, like we used to. 
speaker2: lemme go to the bathroom.
speaker1: don't be too long.

speaker1: what happened overnight? 
speaker2: he couldn't do it, even on the sofa.
speaker1: that thing of his must be psychic. he didn't masturbate?
speaker2: not for the last two inonths.

speaker1: aren't you gonna be late? 
speaker2: i got a call in the area. what's the case? anything interesting?
speaker1: on the subway.
speaker1: they're guilty as but they'll walk. no witnesses. her word against theirs. maybe we could meet for lunch today.

speaker1: you a witness? 
speaker2: er, yes... no, no i'm not.
speaker1: closed session.

speaker1: i wanna book a flight to australia. 
speaker2: where exactly?
speaker1: you sure you're not trying to keep me here?
speaker1: why wouldn't i?
speaker2: i thought you were in a hurry.
speaker1: that's right.
speaker2: you want to book the flight?
speaker1: you were expecting me, weren't you?
speaker2: it's non-refundable.

speaker1: happy? 
speaker2: can we contain him long enough?
speaker1: i think so.
speaker1: he flies at night. thick cloud cover to disorient him. hopefully we'll knock him out with complimentary cocktails, pull the shades down during the movies. he'll never know.
speaker3: why go to all the trouble?
speaker2: he believes she has the answer.
speaker3: why not just tell him she's dead?
speaker2: it's too late for that. that won't satisfy
speaker4: that's what

speaker1: why're you all pretending? huh? what is this a front for? why aren't i in on the joke? was i away that day?! 
speaker1: i'm talking to you! who am i?!
speaker1: you don't believe a single word you're saying! none of you do! you hear me?!

speaker1: ...and back to the close-up... 
speaker2: do you think he sees the entry?
speaker3: hard to tell.
speaker4: why don't we ask him?
speaker2: i don't know how it got there! enhance.

speaker1: say my name or i'll smash its head open. 
speaker1: say my
speaker1: say my name! you
speaker1: i mean it! i'm ready to do it!
speaker1: what...is...my...

speaker1: i predict the next four cars will be a white honda civic, a blue and white dodge dart with the front hubcap missing, a volkswagon beetle with a dented fender and a motorcycle. 
speaker1: there's the honda...the dodge...here comes the dented beetle...
speaker1: look, you!
speaker2: where's the motorcycle?
speaker1: don't you want to know how i did that?

speaker1: where have you been? i've been calling you all day. 
speaker2: have you been concerned, meryl? nice name. "meryl". i always liked it.
speaker1: nice of you to say so after eight years.
speaker2: actress's name, isn't it? what's your
speaker2: take a break. meryl i

speaker1: drop it, i said. it's over. 
speaker2: ...we need more charcoal.
speaker1: shut up!
speaker2: i'm gonna take a shower.
speaker1: no. we're going for a drive.
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: for years i've been saying i want to go some place, well now i'm ready to go. let's just jump in the car and go.

speaker1: i thought maybe, atlantic city. 
speaker2: you hate gambling.
speaker1: that's right. i do, don't i?
speaker2: so why do you wanna go?
speaker1: cos i never have. that's why you go places, isn't it? cos you're curious. i haven't been curious since i was seven years old, y'know that? back then you'd have to nail me to the floor to keep me in one place.

speaker1: how long to take atlantic city out of mothballs? 
speaker2: we could be up and running...three hours maybe.
speaker1: give me a number five gridlock on the jersey turnpike.

speaker1: so much traffic, this time of day. does that strike you as peculiar? 
speaker1: look at them. you believe they're fighting? i don't believe it. why don't you
speaker2: you blaming

speaker1: that's true. we could be stuck here for hours. could be like this all the way to atlantic city. 
speaker2: what the are you doing?
speaker1: you're right. let's go back. i'm sorry. i don't know what got into me.
speaker2: would you please slow down, truman?
speaker2: truman, that was the turnoff!
speaker1: i've changed my mind again. what's maine like this time of year?! i've never been to maine. or let's just see where the road takes us.
speaker1: i think i'd like a little company.

speaker1: what the is wrong with the "carousel"? 
speaker2: they're rusty. we can't keep up. we don't know where he's going any more.
speaker3: oncoming is very thin.

speaker1: he's so close! it's tantilizing! 
speaker2: you want to pull him over?
speaker1: no police. not yet. we shadow him.
speaker2: he's trying to outrun the traffic.
speaker1: he's trying to outrun the

speaker1: it's hard to go places, isn't it? 
speaker2: there's been an accident, truman. we have to go back.
speaker1: no. there's no accident. it's just more stalling. truman slows beside a police officer.
speaker1: what's going on?
speaker1: is there any way around?
speaker3: the whole area's being evacuated. a precaution.

speaker1: did he see it? 
speaker2: i don't think so.

speaker1: let me get you some help, truman. you're not well. 
speaker2: why do you want to have a child with me?
speaker1: that's not true.
speaker2: don't lie to me!

speaker1: you're 
speaker1: no, you're scaring

speaker1: get somebody in there! 
speaker2: no.
speaker3: she's in trouble! we've got to help her!

speaker1: he's bluffing. call his bluff. 
speaker2: how could you buy this thing when you know he drowned in front of me?!
speaker2: you have any idea what it's like to drown?
speaker3: truman, stop it! don't let him do it!
speaker2: i'll
speaker2: 
speaker2: stay where you are or i'll kill her!
speaker4: truman? it's me, marlon.
speaker3: they were going to let him kill me!

speaker1: people know who i am, my every move, complete strangers know my name. even when there's no one around, i feel the eyes on me. 
speaker2: i was in the bank today. the federal on lewis. a clerk was talking about somebody named truman messing with her baby. is that the stranger you're talking about?
speaker1: no. no. i've never seen her before. i know you already think i'm going out of my mind but i genuinely believe the world revolves around me somehow. everybody seems to be in on it.
speaker2: it's a lot of world for one man. you sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing
speaker1: that's just it. i think i
speaker1: sometimes i think it's in my head, sometimes i think it's for real.
speaker2: tru, we've known each other since before we could get a hard-on. truman half-smiles at the ribald remark.
speaker2: the only way we ever made it through high school was cheating off each other's test papers. they were identical. i always liked that, because whatever the answer was, we was

speaker1: thank you. 
speaker2: before we start taking calls, the huge surge in ratings over the last few days, how do you hope to sustain that audience now that truman appears to have reconciled himself, returned to "normal"?
speaker1: ratings have never been our primary goal. i
speaker2: but recent events have been
speaker1: we've become increasingly frustrated watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects. while the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there's nothing fake about truman himself. no scripts. no cue cards. it's not always shakespeare but it's genuine. that's how he can support an entire channel.
speaker2: a window onto the human condition?
speaker1: i prefer to think of it as a

speaker1: we find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort. haven't you ever watched your child or your lover sleep? 
speaker2: let's go to some of those viewers' calls.
speaker2: charlotte, north carolina, for christof.
speaker3: hello?
speaker2: you're on, caller. go ahead.
speaker3: christof, it's a great honor to speak with you.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker3: truman has never been closer. the way he looked directly at us,

speaker1: working on "truman" has always been a huge commitment for an actor, not just in terms of separation from friends and family, but since truman essentially drives the plot, it's a never-ending improvisation. recent events have raised the pressure but also the prestige. 
speaker2: of course truman has always been very much

speaker1: --he's not a performer. he's a prisoner. 
speaker2: --he can leave at any time. if his was more than just a vague ambition, if he were absolutely determined to discover the truth, there's no way we could prevent him. i think what really distresses you, caller, is that ultimately he

speaker1: what are you looking for? 
speaker2: he was premature, wasn't he?
speaker1: only by two weeks.
speaker2: curious even then? like he couldn't wait to get started?
speaker1: his eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
speaker2: what was it like, the first show?
speaker1: the ultimate live television. in competition with five other unwanted pregnancies - the casting of a show determined by an air date - he was the one who arrived on cue.
speaker2: is it true what you said...on the show tonight? about letting him go if he wanted it badly enough. would you really do that?
speaker1: it won't come to that.

speaker1: i hope we've got fresh extras. 
speaker2: the rotation was made this morning.
speaker1: i don't like the couple with the baby. they'd never be together.
speaker1: who's doing wardrobe? i keep seeing the same wardrobe...

speaker1: ...and, action background... 
speaker1: ...nice...nice...i like the woman with the dog... let's keep it moving...i want that traffic kept together...everybody look like you've got places to go...

speaker1: i bet he doesn't stop at the newstand. 
speaker1: ...bodycam two...
speaker1: ...streetlight eight...
speaker1: ...ready, car-cam one. go to one...
speaker1: ...and cut to interior...
speaker1: ...looser...
speaker1: ...and action, vivien...
speaker1: damn, she missed her mark! why do we bother with walk-throughs if nobody pays attention? give me a two-shot of truman and vivien...go to the master ...hold the elevators... vivien, press the elevator button again ...and make sure you catch his eye this time...

speaker1: good! perfect! cut to the interior... 
speaker1: ...and lawrence...
speaker1: ...nice look, lawrence...and, vivien...
speaker2: i wouldn't kick her out of bed.

speaker1: regrettably, i have to inform you that hannah has chosen not to renew her contract. 
speaker1: i'm sure we can all respect her reasons.
speaker1: her separation from truman will be orchestrated over the summer. however, i'm pleased to announce that television's first on-air conception will still take place. you witnessed the initial contact this morning. you all know claudia from her work in theatre. thankfully, truman doesn't.
speaker1: this is a copy of claudia's back story. her character's name will be vivien. she's the new adjuster at the office.
speaker1: we intend to entice truman into the affair as soon as possible. claudia will make her advance at the seminar truman's attending next week. details are in your schedules. i'm sure you'll all make claudia welcome.
speaker2: question is, will
speaker3: what happens when truman and the baby are both on camera together?
speaker1: there will simply be duplicate coverage.
speaker3: let's just hope we don't have twins.
speaker4: when truman dies do we go back to the single channel?

speaker1: what's he doing in 
speaker2: what's with the coat?
speaker3: nervous.
speaker1: oh he never bought nothing.
speaker4: give him a break. it's taken him thirty- four years to get the nerve to go in there.

speaker1: ...ready two. go to two. 
speaker1: and back to the medium.
speaker1: ...and wide...
speaker1: that loser pays our salary.
speaker2: he's given up on himself again.
speaker1: who cares? makes life easier for us. he is what he is.
speaker3: when did he start sleeping like that?
speaker1: about the time meryl left.
speaker3: is that the best shot we can get?
speaker1: what's to see?
speaker3: what happened to the room?
speaker1: he started to reorganize. i was going to call you. but half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep.
speaker3: i want to check the set-ups for tomorrow's insurance convention.
speaker3: give me a shot from his wedding band.
speaker1: he took it off.
speaker3: why is he so still? he's too still.
speaker3: isolate the audio in the cans and amplify.
speaker3: give me a preview. an ecu on his torso.
speaker3: phone him.
speaker4: wrong number.

speaker1: hang up! 
speaker1: get marlon over there.
speaker2: under what pretext?
speaker1: any pretext!

speaker1: tru!..tru!.. 
speaker1: i'm comin' in, tru!

speaker1: cut transmission. 
speaker1: i said, "cut"!

speaker1: there. freeze...zoom into the chair... 
speaker1: enhance.
speaker1: he wasn't making a mess. he was engineering a blind spot.
speaker2: how does he know where the cameras are?
speaker3: i don't know. all i know is we've been filming a blow-up doll for the last three hours.

speaker1: we've declared a curfew. only the extras required for the search are on the set. 
speaker2: all prop cars accounted for?
speaker1: he has to be on foot. he has the world's most recognizable face. he can't disappear.
speaker3: the sponsors are threatening to pull the plug if we don't make a statement within the next

speaker1: any sign of him? 
speaker2: not yet.
speaker1: take it easy.

speaker1: rumors are circulating he's dead. 
speaker2: why? we're getting higher ratings for that graphic than any time in the series.

speaker1: we tell him the truth. 
speaker1: we're making a movie.
speaker2: we'll get him on this next sweep.
speaker1: what have we missed?
speaker2: it's just a matter of time.
speaker1: no. we've missed something.

speaker1: ...trust that boy... 
speaker2: trust that boy... we're not watching the sea.
speaker3: why would we?
speaker2: sweep the harbor.

speaker1: that's him! 
speaker2: resume transmission.

speaker1: alter course immediately. you are entering a restricted area. 
speaker2: you!

speaker1: i knew he wasn't dead. 
speaker2: get the away! it's my life!

speaker1: is he out of his mind? 
speaker2: pull back.

speaker1: how long will another chopper take? 
speaker2: by the time we pick up the pilots,
speaker2: there's no rescue boat in the area. he won't know what to do.
speaker3: for sake, chris. the whole world is watching. we can't kill him in front of a live audience.
speaker1: he was

speaker1: it's not working. he can sail that thing! 
speaker2: how can he sail?! he's in insurance! he
speaker3: on the behalf of the studio, i demand you cease transmission.
speaker4: keep running! i take full responsibility. how close?
speaker5: very close.
speaker4: capsize him! tip him over!
speaker6: you can't! he's tied himself to the wheel.
speaker1: he doesn't care...
speaker6: you lied, you hypocrite! the only way he can leave, is dead!
speaker4: do it!
speaker1: it's too late...

speaker1: nobody move! drive! 
speaker1: keep talking. say whatever you say!
speaker2: er,...the ocean tank contains over six hundred and fifty million gallons of man-made salt water, temperature-controlled...
speaker1: act normal! keep filming!
speaker3: please, mister truman.

speaker1: even the stars i wished on... 
speaker2: you won't do it, truman. i've watched you your whole life.
speaker1: you never had a camera in my head.
speaker1: something

