speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: una lã¡grima...sola una sola...haz la mejor possible.
speaker3: "one tear..only one...so make it a good one." this was my mother's instruction to me.

speaker1: each night my mother promised me a wonderful life.. each night i looked for a new expressive way to tell my mother how much i loved her. 
speaker1: i just played and did my lessons and every time i looked up my mother was in the process of saving us.

speaker1: desperation in her hands was our weapon. 
speaker1: with this weapon she had her marriage annulled - usually impossible for the poor - and somehow convinced an associate of my father's to transport two mexicans north in style.

speaker1: how you doing? 
speaker2: hi. how are you? i am fine.. ..happy, merry, joyful, glad, contented, frisky.
speaker3: my mother's prayer for us, which she made me repeat exactly, represented a stunning look into our future. "please let only the bad things change."

speaker1: the pilot taken with the mother's looks. 
speaker2: how can i reach you? address?

speaker1: he glances over..this is not lechery, it is art 
speaker2: my mother had redefined her own passions. blaming herself for the father she gave me, she would never again be lured by a man's rough edges..she had decided that goodness would be her catnip.

speaker1: texas... 
speaker1: texas.
speaker1: mamã¡, texas..

speaker1: we moved into a place managed by my mother's aunt. my mother worked two jobs in two local stores paying a total of 450 dollars a week... 
speaker1: ..just ever so barely enough.

speaker1: gee whiz in heaven...how are you? 
speaker2: don't worry..i'm not mad...i was looking for decoration to put on the glass so people would stop walking into it and instead of taking what they had in stock, which was awful, i special ordered. i'll design something myself which i should have done in the fi... our heroine, seeing the blood flow from her aunt's nose, gestures that monica needs help not conversation.
speaker2: ..and what difference does that make when your nose is bleeding.
speaker1: now you got it, mom.

speaker1: here, take these. was that strange to give you money..i just felt badly that.. 
speaker2: it's okay.

speaker1: she is my niece. she and her daughter live in the apartment i manage. yolanda, who worked for you, lived there before she went back home. that's how i heard about the job. 
speaker2: so who am i interviewing?
speaker1: her.
speaker2: you're gorgeous.
speaker1: vistosos.
speaker3: she doesn't mean it as a compliment. it's more of an accusation.

speaker1: this is my daughter bernice and this is my mother, evelyn norwich.. 
speaker2: excuse me...glad you're okay. good luck.
speaker1: no, stay..this involves you.
speaker2: i wouldn't want some kid around for my interview. you understand, mom.
speaker3: strength of character..empathy..big heart..taste for futility - i love you.

speaker1: you guys want some lemonade? let's just talk. i have two children. my husband works nights..he's a chef and has his own place. 
speaker2: do you work?
speaker1: i helped run a commercial design company until ten months ago when

speaker1: it was downsized to zip. okay. i have two children. i like the house to be like me in that i'm very loose and meticulous at the same time. it's all about first names and closeness here but i care about the place, you know. it's what they used to call homemaker.. 
speaker1: too bad for you that it just never occurred to you to check on how much spanish i know.
speaker2: i'm sorry what i say about you...don't hold it against her.
speaker3: mom!!
speaker1: i don't speak any spanish. but i'm not an - i talk for an hour and you say two words. what did you say?
speaker1: never mind. you got your nose bopped. i got my feelings hurt. onward.
speaker4: i will major in linguistics and make sociology my sub- concentration. because it has been my experience that the barriers of

speaker1: narrator language are more than we dare admit. that, as much as we translate, finally we will never understand each other. my mother's name, for example, beautiful in spanish, becomes leaden and awful when pronounced by a non-latin. 
speaker2: what's your name? llamo? one of my five spanish words..
speaker3: flor moreno.
speaker2: flor.
speaker4: florrrrr.
speaker2: flor.
speaker4: florrrrr.
speaker2: flor.
speaker4: florrrrr.
speaker2: flor.
speaker4: florrrrr.
speaker2: flor..what i walk on?
speaker5: florrrrr.

speaker1: florrrrr. 
speaker2: it means flower, right?
speaker3: yes. flower. florrrrr.
speaker4: florrrrr.
speaker1: florrrrr.
speaker5: what did she say?

speaker1: she says..if you curl your tongue and let it be loose you will have it..that it's hard for americans.. she says it's great that you try so hard. many people wouldn't bother. 
speaker2: she gets me....

speaker1: you want some lemonade? take some lemonade. 
speaker1: florrrrr.
speaker2: sublime.
speaker1: whew, dense but stubborn, right? thanks. what you just did with me is just what kids need..patience and encouragement. alright, money...
speaker3: goodbye, really.. look forward to seeing you.
speaker1: love you... ... the job is six days a week, seven to seven..the kids and all housekeeping, how much a week would you like?
speaker1: no.. this is an important question..if you ask for too little it means you don't value

speaker1: yourself..too much and you're taking advantage. so? 
speaker2: one thousand dollars.

speaker1: six hundred dollars. 
speaker2: welcome to the family..

speaker1: i brought some dessert. 
speaker2: she came down to check on the party and realized the gardeners hadn't finished rolling the sod.

speaker1: we can do it. come on. 
speaker1: can you believe they left without finishing?

speaker1: looks great, huh?.... you're not looking. 
speaker2: i was getting a kick looking at you look at it.
speaker1: i better get dressed again in case anybody's just a half hour late.
speaker1: okay..we're okay here. why can't everything be like sod? there's no wait, no dung, nothing you have to do right and yet it's perfect. it covers up all your dirt and makes things immediately pretty..then, the miracle, if you just give it time, it roots and you can't tell it from the real thing. no reaction. nothing to say.
speaker2: huh? oh sure..i, uh..well, no, i don't have anything particular to say.
speaker1: oh, john why don't you just take out a knife and kill me all together.
speaker2: how'd you get there..hey, wait a minute..deb..stop..come on. i'd like to figure this one out. what would have been the great thing for me to say after you said the sod sentence?..really.

speaker1: that's actually a good question. 
speaker2: there you go. i surprise sometimes.
speaker1: i would have liked, if after i compared the sod to life, if you had said, "exactly!" she turns to leave.
speaker2: yeah. but to say that and mean it i'd have to think the same way you do.
speaker1: it's worth a try...i had something else to tell you...it'll come to me..

speaker1: could we have a table for two, please? 
speaker1: we're celebrating.
speaker2: smoking or non-smoking?
speaker3: dancing!
speaker1: wow, expensive..

speaker1: this is just for the starter? 
speaker2: uh-huh..and those men would like to buy you a drink.
speaker1: and i would like to begin with the jumbo shrimp.

speaker1: okay...think seriously about getting up. you don't have to get up yet but are you thinking seriously about it? 
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: okay.

speaker1: now? 
speaker2: yes..actual up..
speaker1: morning, dad.
speaker2: yeah, good morning.
speaker1: you as mad at me as mom 'cause of what happened?
speaker2: no, georgie, i'm not.
speaker1: are you mad at me?
speaker2: uh...okay, no..
speaker3: morning, good to see you.

speaker1: morning. good too. 
speaker2: try some.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: tough day.
speaker2: i had an idea for a breakthrough in french toast so i made breakfast. i don't want to be teased about it.. no sarcasm. no tough love. just try it and if by any chance you have a positive reaction...
speaker3: right..mean ol' me. i can't play right now. i have to do something about your brother.
speaker2: i had an idea for a recipe. when has that happened? i got up early to do this. at least taste it, for sakes!
speaker3: oh, it's good...oh it's rich -- oh it's good.

speaker1: no..no! flor!....never do fetch. 
speaker1: i mean it, never!
speaker1: i'm not mad. i'm thinking of you. this is me being nice..
speaker1: just no taking ball from dog. trust me on that one.
speaker1: you and me. we are fine. just a tip. girlfriends. could you make some coffee? cafe?
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: this isn't an argument, honey. 
speaker2: yes. yes it is. so stop being so maniacally calm.
speaker1: no..it's not. because i understand your side.
speaker2: i can't be wrong about that too. this is a fight. we're having a fight. yo, i feel anger.
speaker2: can i have a moment?

speaker1: started doing. it's like this is your way of letting me know there's something deeply wrong with me because i'm not calm. 
speaker2: let's not go all over the place..can't we...
speaker1: if you're going to talk to me please have the decency to raise your voice.
speaker2: let's make a break for it.
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: just for a second.
speaker2: we don't have to be those people. nobody's watching. they've been masquerading as us for a while here..i'll distract them - you make a break for it and i'll meet you outside.
speaker1: you're ridiculing me because i care about this.
speaker2: no. i'm not. i mean this..let's get away from those two in case they're as miserable as they look..

speaker1: come on, baby. 
speaker2: let me ask you a question..let me change the subject..forget for a moment that you won't support me with georgie..
speaker1: well, i don't think...
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker2: here's the question. it's been on my mind more and more. do you do that calm thing for the purpose of infuriating me?
speaker1: what? why would ... why would anyone do something to someone they love for the purpose of messing them up?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: deb, since high school we've been able to read each other...take advantage of it..the answer to the question is,"absolutely not." now take a look and tell me if you believe me.

speaker1: great in heaven save me. 
speaker2: hi.
speaker1: whoa...whoa...i didn't know deborah had found someone... you work here? you're going to help with the house and kids?
speaker2: solo espaã±ol.
speaker1: you work here and you don't speak any english at all?
speaker3: all she has to do is dial 9-1-1 and press two for spanish. flor...john. this is flor.

speaker1: hi, flor. 
speaker1: look, i'll take georgie to school.
speaker2: no. i'm doing it..show flor the ropes.

speaker1: hombres, huh? 
speaker2: i just didn't want to sing last night.
speaker3: yeah. well you said you would..you said you wanted to. i asked you five times. then when i have the whole party paying attention you refused. as she puts the car in gear...georgie sings insanely well.
speaker1: it doesn't do any good now, georgie.

speaker1: i've programmed it for spanish.. look, it will take you anywhere and then back home. if you figured out how to make coffee on that thing it's all downhill. 
speaker1: this is stop gap..you, kiddo, you're going to have to learn english.

speaker1: sorry... 
speaker2: not the best place to stand, fella.
speaker1: no. it's me. you're the new helper, huh..
speaker3: i didn't mean to...
speaker1: no..no..it's okay. it's me being bugged.
speaker4: you are going to be so happy..

speaker1: i have something very important to tell you. 
speaker2: perfect cod this is john -- john, perfect cod..best one i've seen all season and he was swimming twenty minutes ago.
speaker3: knockout. you want to learn something? you want to pack it away?
speaker3: cradle it...put it in the cooler but not on its side.. in the same position it swims. and check the ice pack..make sure it can drain away..if it can't the chlorine can hurt the flesh. do all that and nobody can put a fish in the fridge better than you...and that's a solid start.. first day and you already did something perfect.
speaker4: yes, i understand.
speaker1: please. now?
speaker3: oh, sorry..i forgot.
speaker3: damn.. "ohhhh damn."
speaker5: what, buddy, what?

speaker1: victor spotted a food critic.. 
speaker2: from?
speaker3: the new york times..i'll bet they sent her out just for us. here's what she ordered.
speaker2: look, if you're nervous take a walk..
speaker1: i don't need a walk.
speaker4: i'll walk with you..i know a breathing thing.
speaker1: what do you think i'm worried about... how i'll cook? that's not the problem.. the lady wants fish. get the fish.
speaker1: i worked in a kitchen once in new york that got four stars. it was like a line formed for the chance to become an people's accents changed. the heart went out of the place. you understand.
speaker2: no.
speaker4: i agree with everything you've said. i admire you for your feelings. i hope to adopt them as my own....

speaker1: he is talking quickly..almost to himself. 
speaker2: i don't know what to root for.. the thought of one star makes me nauseous..but with four there's no place to go but, "oh my they took away a star." three..three and a half. that's what you want..no. wrong! three and a half you feel disappointed that you just missed out on four. you know what you want? three and a quarter.. that would be perfect!! it would mean you're good..but you're not good enough to feel disappointed that you just missed out on excellent..but nothing truly bad happened, you still got your three and a quarter stars. which encourages you to try and improve..and you still get enough respect so that you can get good people to work with you..business is good but not crazy. you're right there underneath the radar where you get to mind your own business. that's a solid life.
speaker2: aw, man..this is amazing. no three and a quarter here.

speaker1: bless the language barrier, it keeps you from being bored with me. 
speaker1: anyway, she said, "aren't you evelyn wright?" first of all, that she recognized me from the old covers and then she .... oh, please her name..it makes the story so much better...she said, "whenever i think everything is.." pardon my french..pardon her french "a mother hmmmhmmm...i put on one of your records.."
speaker2: awwww. how sweet....
speaker1: just such a lovely thing to come from the blue....
speaker3: oh, mother...it's not even noon.
speaker1: it's almost two o'clock.
speaker3: where is this day going...flor could you come with me?
speaker2: grandma, tell mom what happened.
speaker1: no.

speaker1: this is going to work. 
speaker2: i don't know anything.
speaker1: free your mind...the president whose policies many consider responsible for the great depression...
speaker2: i don't know...
speaker1: name a vacuum cleaner..
speaker2: okay. yes..thanks.
speaker1: and this vacuum whooshed all this money out of everyone's pockets.
speaker2: got it. i no longer know nothing.
speaker1: and hoover was followed in office by..
speaker2: i'm just drawing blanks. i'm embarrassed. it's my own fault i spent my time on math, which i'm lucky if i don't flunk anyway and..
speaker1: the guy we are looking for is not a ruse..
speaker2: what's ruse mean?
speaker1: phony. so this president was not a ruse..he was the real thing.

speaker1: ruse?? 
speaker2: rusevelt..if i'd ever heard of the word before - that would lock it in..it's so stupid it might work anyway...
speaker3: surprise new clothes..
speaker2: what'd i do right?
speaker3: warehouse sale..

speaker1: she's right between the two sizes..i thought about it..what am i supposed to do encourage her...what is it? - denial? or motivate her to get herself in shape. 
speaker1: flor..
speaker2: me puedo ir?..go..can go?
speaker1: sure. go.
speaker3: i'll drive you to the bus stop.

speaker1: sorry. i'm cracking. as he moves back to his side of the vehicle. 
speaker1: shiiiiiiit!

speaker1: but you know, you gotta watch out for the times you think you're absolutely right..but, man, bernice has finals tomorrow. she didn't need this one..and just that look on her face when she got the gifts-- --like for a second she thought all her problems with her mother had been solved... 
speaker2: my mother did not understand her male boss. his heart was good and he was rare in not flirting with her. but they were starkly different. privacy and dignity were the same word to my mother. naturally, when she found herself sitting next to a man who cried over his child's hurt she had no idea how to process the event.
speaker3: gracias.
speaker1: what are you doing? let me take you all the way.
speaker1: how weird was this ride? sorry.
speaker3: no es nada.

speaker1: it was so unusual for my mother to ask my help that i realized immediately she was losing her battle to be uninvolved with the claskys. 
speaker2: try it on.
speaker2: please try it on?
speaker2: just try it on?
speaker3: just try it on.
speaker2: just try it on.

speaker1: just try it on...just try it on.. 
speaker2: our culture embraces fullness in a woman. you, the women of the admissions committee, as intelligent as you are, have no idea how casual and complete such acceptance is back home, in the land of the size 16 bikini.

speaker1: as she strides purposefully up the street. 
speaker2: this is one of the cultural differences between us which i wish to explore academically at princeton. american women, i believe, actually feel the same as hispanic women about weight.

speaker1: left. 
speaker2: ...dieting, exercising american women become afraid of everything associated with being curvaceous, such as wantonness, lustfulness, sex, food, motherhood..all that is good in life.

speaker1: hey..buenas dias, flor.. 
speaker1: yes..well, taste she has..
speaker2: just try it on.

speaker1: hey!!!! when did you learn to... 
speaker2: just try it on..
speaker1: too tight..it doesn't fit.
speaker2: just try it on..hey?!
speaker2: just..
speaker1: okay. i'll show you..

speaker1: lo siento. no. 
speaker2: hey..

speaker1: every time he has a nightmare, i teach him one of my old songs. that way the nightmares have a purpose. 
speaker2: but i don't have to sing it for anyone.
speaker3: right. you're clear on that..
speaker2: how many did you sell of this song?
speaker1: he likes to know that stuff.
speaker3: she was huge.

speaker1: you okay? 
speaker2: i am okay. deborah around?
speaker3: she run.

speaker1: hey, honey. 
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: no..nothing...just that..
speaker3: a kid offered me a trade..let me show you.
speaker1: yeah..

speaker1: he starts to follow him to his room. 
speaker2: dad!!! he can wait.
speaker3: no..it's okay..
speaker2: let him wait..yours is obviously important.
speaker4: you don't even know how important the trade is..
speaker3: let me just do georgie.... here.

speaker1: he says he'll give me any three silvers for him. 
speaker2: i don't know...this is the one you started with..you really want to give up your first card?
speaker1: i know..that's why i needed you.
speaker2: ..this is your favorite..
speaker1: i think he'd go higher.
speaker2: but it's not numbers..it's.....

speaker1: for sake..why did you... 
speaker2: why?!!? crazy father, why?!? why aren't you screaming?..
speaker1: i'm getting there..just the stunned thing has to get dealt with...
speaker2: john clasky, who at 25 made his mark on the new york restaurant scene when jammed lived up to and survived its silly name, has re- emerged as a young and confident veteran taking chances with his combinations in so subtle a manner.."
speaker3: if he gave me six...
speaker1: wait a minute, your sister's talking.
speaker2: "...beginning with the succession of appetizers, each one with its own stunning and fully realized agenda, is constantly yet casually daring." ah, dad...this is so great... now here's the thing...

speaker1: "eating at this perfect smaller, passionate restaurant inspires one's own abandonment of caution. to wit: john clasky is the best chef in the united states." 
speaker2: look how great you read it.
speaker1: perfect, dad.
speaker3: john..john...oh, my you even look different to me....
speaker2: what are you talking about?
speaker1: i wonder what mom will do?

speaker1: what is this? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: oooohhch!

speaker1: wow..."john clasky es el mejor chef en los estados unidos.. 
speaker2: ah, bravo...

speaker1: hey, deb? 
speaker2: yeah?
speaker1: you know, i guess i got used to you getting a little blue after intercourse...but during..??
speaker2: something else i do wrong.

speaker1: you've gotta stop walking away. 
speaker2: if i stay, i will say awful things to you that i might not even mean..you pick.
speaker1: see ya.

speaker1: yo leãœ la crãœtica buena. 
speaker1: i read your good review.
speaker1: it's nice.
speaker2: not so far...how you doing?
speaker1: i do fine.

speaker1: should i stop answering? we're booked for two months solid. 
speaker2: no, no, no, no, no....i want to keep some walk-in business..i want this to stay neighborhood.
speaker1: impossible. there would be riots..you should hear the desperation in their voices..best day of my life.
speaker2: we'll serve a full menu at the bar then.
speaker1: then where do i put the people waiting for a table? it won't work.
speaker2: do this for me.
speaker1: there's no way.
speaker2: do this for me or i'll set my hair on fire and start punching myself in the face.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: yeah..you're right...that was an unusual way for me to make myself understood..but you'll do the bar thing?
speaker1: yes, of course, john..

speaker1: i need to talk to you. 
speaker2: ah, man..okay.

speaker1: what's up? what's wrong? 
speaker2: i've gotten a fantastic offer for my own place..everybody wants to back me since the paper came out.
speaker1: what's your reaction?
speaker2: honestly? because i've had this very unusual reaction.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i've had a hard on almost all day and it won't go away. like i'm riding on the back seat of a bus with bad shocks and every other passenger is a gorgeous woman with a yellow sports top whose leaning over. it's like every dream i ever had and some even i didn't have the to dream..
speaker1: so you're considering taking it?... okay, here's the thing. i can't lose you and still keep the hours i'm keeping. i can't do my life unless i can hold onto you. i think i just gave you an incredible bargaining position.
speaker3: so you gave away twenty percent of the restaurant without talking to me about it.
speaker1: yeah. if i didn't do it - i'd have been coming home just to sleep.

speaker1: remember the other day when you asked me the perfect response to something i said?...i'm asking you now..what would you like my response to be to your giving away twenty percent of the business without asking me? 
speaker2: "you're ma man!"
speaker1: okay! so that would be???
speaker2: my dream response from you, yes.
speaker1: i'm not quite there..actually, i just had this flash that the reason women in the old days used to faint was to avoid doing acts of violence against men. and i was all worried about figuring out the timing just to talk to you about renting a place for the summer.
speaker2: well, i think you got your timing.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i'm mike..there's one great rental that just came on..so we're starting at the top..

speaker1: i'll never be one of those girls whose hair blows perfectly in a convertible. 
speaker2: move your seat forward..
speaker2: a little more..just..good.
speaker1: oh, you must be trouble.

speaker1: gorgeous, huh..pretty, fabulous, beautiful. what word is the same in spanish? 
speaker2: fabuloso.
speaker1: thanks.

speaker1: i don't care if it's a rental..this place is getting a fixing. 
speaker1: this will be yours..
speaker2: did you ask her if she could live in?
speaker1: come on...there's no buses from her to here. there's no question. double come on...
speaker1: the barrio - carbon beach..the barrio - carbon beach. what to do? don't worry. i'm putting nicer stuff in here too.

speaker1: you must learn english. why won't she learn english? i'm going to have to learn, "you must learn english," in spanish. 
speaker2: i think flor is perfect and we should do all we can to keep her from changing.
speaker1: gee, you took the words right out of my mouthay.

speaker1: oh, good. do you speak english? 
speaker2: yes, i do.
speaker1: would you translate for me?
speaker2: sure...forever.
speaker1: wait till i say something before you start in.. i rented a house here for the summer and now she must sleep at the house because of the bus schedule.
speaker3: no.. sorry.
speaker1: what? why?
speaker2: she can't because of her daughter.
speaker1: you have a daughter? you have a whole daughter you haven't mentioned..how old?
speaker3: twelve.

speaker1: it's a little crazy that i don't know that. 
speaker1: don't translate asides.
speaker1: hey!
speaker2: she can't live here. her daughter.
speaker1: okay.. her daughter can also live with us for the summer..
speaker3: no, sorry.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: i don't know. she just doesn't want to.
speaker1: will you please just tell me what she said.
speaker2: she said, "i just don't want to."
speaker4: if she didn't tell us about her child she has to have a deep sense of privacy. we can figure out how she can still live at home. hell, i don't mind driving her at night.

speaker1: let's spare the world you on the roads. well, what do we do? 
speaker1: i'm sorry, my friend, this is what i need. it's just for the summer. i don't want to lose you. but ....
speaker2: yo vivo aquãœ.
speaker3: she'll live here.
speaker3: i said, "god protect you from that boss."

speaker1: who wants to go swimming?..yes, who wants to go swimming? 
speaker1: who wants to go swimming?..huh..
speaker2: not now..but i promise i'll go in the summer after next.
speaker3: you want to go swimming?
speaker1: oh yeah, you're off.
speaker3: what do you think, wet suits?

speaker1: wet suits are for wimps.. 
speaker2: yeah, you're right..let me get mine..
speaker1: you're good.

speaker1: look at this child..flor, you could make a fortune at surrogate pregnancy.... flor looks to her daughter for some understanding of what deborah said.. 
speaker2: que?
speaker3: hi. i'm john..it's good to see you. great..
speaker1: hi. this is my daughter, bernice..i'm deborah..and out there...are georgie and.

speaker1: i'm so glad to meet you. i'm a fan of your mother's. 
speaker2: i'm cristina.
speaker3: no comparisons, please, no comparisons. evelyn shoves her granddaughter for the self-
speaker2: my mother says it's best if we get out of the way and put our things away.
speaker4: have you ever been to the beach here?
speaker2: i've never been anyplace but mexico and texas.....before today.
speaker4: here's the most important place in the house..grab this stuff whenever you want.
speaker2: thank you..thank you so much.
speaker5: very little accent?
speaker6: que?
speaker2: sin acento.

speaker1: cristina.. 
speaker2: right. settle in..
speaker3: thank you. i am thrilled to be here.

speaker1: hey, cristina...hey...hey..what are you doing up? 
speaker2: oh, hi..so beautiful..i was just excited.
speaker1: i know..would you believe i had to talk my husband into this? would you believe i had to talk my husband into it?...do you hear me?
speaker2: yes...i just .. i didn't know what to say?
speaker1: do you want to come with me? -- i'm going to the flea market.
speaker2: i don't know what that...
speaker1: it's the rose bowl... miles, actual miles, of great things for sale for sake...we can have brunch in pasadena.
speaker2: i don't want to wake my mother so early.
speaker1: i'll leave her a note...i'll
speaker3: cristina?
speaker4: dear flor,

speaker1: stop thanking me. i love having the company. 
speaker2: it was an adventure which i'll remember.
speaker1: your english is genius. do you dream in spanish or english?
speaker2: just recently i've had a dream in english.
speaker1: what was it?
speaker2: i am so sorry. i -- uh..i'd ..i uh, can't tell ..this is so uncomfortable.
speaker1: you could have just said you didn't remember.
speaker2: i, uh, guess so..but i do.
speaker1: look who's sensational.

speaker1: what's wrong? 
speaker1: she's wild-eyed over this..
speaker2: aw, shit.. sorry about the word, georgie.
speaker3: it's okay.
speaker2: you want to know what happened?
speaker3: no thank you.
speaker4: hey, flor..
speaker4: i'm sorry..very sorry..
speaker4: they should be back soon..
speaker4: hey, flor..

speaker1: deborah made a mistake. i understand how you feel...do you understand me at all, generally? is simpã¡tico the word? 
speaker2: is he coming on?..
speaker3: his kind eyes.

speaker1: simpã¡tico, yes. 
speaker2: un momento, huh?
speaker2: i'm really sorry this is happening. i just want you to know that. i am real sorry.
speaker2: i didn't mean..
speaker2: i meant..

speaker1: what? something bad happen? 
speaker1: cristina, tell your mother i just played around with your hair..she can put it back..no hurt feelings.
speaker2: not right now.
speaker1: what? --
speaker3: you can't just take someone else's.....
speaker1: nuh-uh, mom..don't go there..or i'll go there and you know where "there" is.

speaker1: you cannot take my child without my permission..and, if you had asked me i would not have given permission. is this why you did not ask? because you knew this. you have no rights over my private life. 
speaker2: if you have any disagreement with this, i no longer wish to work here.

speaker1: for you. 
speaker2: from?
speaker2: you are not yourself...this was written in anger. you sleep on it and then if you still want me to have it -- fine..i don't think you will once calm and rational thought returns. just sleep on it.

speaker1: she didn't even want us to know she had a daughter - then, on the first day, you take the kid without asking. i think that's... 
speaker2: what!?! insensitive? elitist?
speaker1: dumb.
speaker2: when is anyone in this house or this life going to consider my feelings? i just tried to make a lovely kid feel welcome. there's no reason to rake it over...i let it go..and gave flor the room to let it go. which i'm sure she has!

speaker1: i am deeply and sincerely sorry to have upset you. especially in light of the deep connection, as women, i believe us to have. 
speaker2: and to think i was worried about flor living here with her kid?

speaker1: so here's the idea..i want to make a serving platter for serving fish using sea glass like this.. 
speaker1: i used to hunt for this stuff every free minute when i apprenticed in italy. this is bits of broken glass that the ocean sand blasts over the years..great looking, huh? so you guys go hunting and i'll pay 50 cents for any piece, a dollar for anything as big as this and five dollars for any color that isn't brown, clear or green.
speaker2: do we have to do this?
speaker3: oh, come on...

speaker1: excuse me. 
speaker2: hi..what's doing?
speaker2: i'm broke.

speaker1: no..you don't have to pay..i'm sorry. don't worry, please. 
speaker2: no. i'm kidding..instead of a platter -- i'll just build a sea glass building and serve fish inside... great, cristina..why don't you count it and..
speaker1: i have... many times..i didn't sleep. i counted.
speaker2: so what's the damage...total?
speaker1: it depends on whether you consider these four a color other than green, brown or clear..
speaker2: well, this one is borderline.
speaker1: i agree.
speaker2: oh my you found a blue..nobody finds a blue..you know how a blue happens? i mean, before the ocean blasts it for 30-40 years. somebody had to throw away an old milk of magnesia bottle. you know what milk of magnesia is?
speaker1: unfortunately.
speaker2: so how much for the whole deal?
speaker1: eleven hundred and one dollar.

speaker1: may i talk to you? 
speaker2: you mean your mother....
speaker2: sure you can talk to me..
speaker1: i don't have to sleep first?
speaker2: what's wrong?
speaker1: did you give this money to my daughter?
speaker2: i made this little deal..with all the kids to...
speaker1: please..
speaker1: you don't tell or ask the mother when you give a child a fortune for looking on the beach for stones..what is the word for this..
speaker2: sea glass?

speaker1: no..not a name for the stones..a name for the act..what you did.. 
speaker2: engreãœdo.

speaker1: it's hard to translate. 
speaker2: smug.
speaker3: i had no idea it would amount to that kind of money..i thought --- sort of tops fifty dollars.
speaker2: fifty dollars is a lot of money..
speaker3: okay. right.
speaker3: ah, shit..

speaker1: i'm sorry....i get why you are upset. it might not look it but i am good at getting things. doing something about it is something else..i was going to talk to you before i actually gave her the money..but maybe i should have checked before i started the whole thing. i know what it's like when you feel your kid is being messed with..i get the message. it won't happen again. it's late..i'm sure we'd all like... 
speaker2: to what..sleep? if this was small enough to be helped by some little apology, i would be a fool to bring it up..i need to say more no matter what the result. i need to be impolite. you leave someone else's child alone. it's simple, no? it is too easy for children to feel contradictions..it encourages questioning their parents..and that makes them less safe. your wife takes her for rides and changes her hair..you give her money. here.. take back the money????????????
speaker2: i did not mean to be angry to you - only emotional..
speaker1: what about hypocritical?

speaker1: yeah, you heard me. it's not like you didn't do the same thing... 
speaker2: no!
speaker1: oh, yes. so go lecture yourself..you won't need a translator for that one...i mean what am i lately... a recycling bin?..just anyone dump in your garbage and hope i make something useful out of it...
speaker1: yes, you did the same thing...you think i didn't know about altering those outfits for bernie..she tells me her stuff....so, am i missing something? is there a real difference between that and what you are complaining about? cristina waits for a comeback from her mother to
speaker2: sin diferencia. yo interferãœ.
speaker3: no difference. i interfered.
speaker1: okay......i'm still not sure i did the right thing keeping it to myself. it felt disloyal to deborah..but my daughter really needed someone to be kind to her right then..so..so.
speaker3: i am very embarrassed. you are very right. hypocrisy..yes.

speaker1: i'll tell you, it's pretty wild to say something and have the other person just concede the point. i'm dazed here. 
speaker2: i will leave whenever it is good for you and...
speaker1: no..no..come on, man..
speaker2: but how can i work for you after we talk like this?
speaker1: you can't quit even if you want to and you know why.
speaker3: no..
speaker1: yes, you do..
speaker1: because then cristina will blame herself for costing you the job...and that guilt...i don't know if you know about guilt..
speaker4: culpa, guilt, sãœ. we know. we are catholics.
speaker3: culpa, si..por dios, si.
speaker4: we know.
speaker3: we know.

speaker1: so, welcome back. 
speaker2: good night, mr. clasky..
speaker3: good night as they exit..their backs to john, daughter following mother...flor speaks to her daughter.
speaker2: no te puedo tener haciendo esto por mi. ahora tengo que aprender inglãˆs.
speaker4: i can't have you doing this for me.
speaker2: no, dije eso por ti - no por john.
speaker1: you have a wonderful mother.
speaker2: que?
speaker3: nada.

speaker1: you gotta do something about chum..your arm's going to go. 
speaker1: don't you sleep anymore?
speaker2: no..you get more if you keep at it.
speaker1: you're doing fantastic.
speaker2: now i am like a three year-old.
speaker1: she say where?
speaker2: no. sorry.
speaker1: listen..i just forgot she was going out..don't be a smart ass. uh-oh..well, you and i communicate mostly in apologies anyway..i'm sorry. i should be whipped. i should be stoned- it's been a while - i meant to say, i think, don't be smart, don't be kind, don't be sensitive, don't be beautiful. i meant to say, "hi, flor, good night flor..that show you're watching is going to be a hit."

speaker1: how'd you get your mother to let you go with my mother? 
speaker2: well, your mother just said she could use my help on a few errands while you're in class...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: no. just that i hate summer school.
speaker2: why do you go then?
speaker1: i'm not sure i can explain to you the concept of not doing well in a class..in this case math...and the system kind of insists on the illusion that you've learned math -- so they make you go to summer school..it helps them avoid facing that they have failed in their mission.
speaker2: what do you mean they failed?
speaker1: joking.
speaker2: oh. i see. forgive me, i don't have a real sense of humor.
speaker1: thank you, joking...
speaker2: the joke is?

speaker1: that you're better at everything than i am...and i was thanking for there being this one thing where i might have my nose in front. 
speaker2: and that thing is???
speaker1: sexual experience..
speaker2: look at you girls.
speaker2: cristina's already read, on her own, everything on bernice's summer reading list..and she's two grades behind..imagine if she went to bernice's school..and they'd kill to give her a scholarship.
speaker3: talk to flor...
speaker2: yeah..she's so open to new things.

speaker1: can't find my keys.. another woman, arlene folsom, calls to her.. 
speaker2: deborah...
speaker1: hi, arlene.. come on.
speaker1: hi. this is cristina..the girl i'm always raving about..this is arlene folsom..the school director.
speaker2: hi..
speaker3: hello..a pleasure to meet you, ms. folsom. i couldn't believe how beautiful the grounds were as we drove in. i just think the balance of the buildings to open ground is so wonderful and must have been very difficult to achieve.
speaker2: would you like a little tour?

speaker1: nuh-uh, flor you are not pinning this one on me. i've got to finish packing up. 
speaker2: i just don't....out of space this school wants her to go for free?
speaker1: we ran into the school head. they want diversity...cristina knocked her out...i had nothing to do with it. by the way, the scholarship is worth twenty thousand dollars. and early registration is tomorrow.
speaker2: it is too far from our home.
speaker1: you could move in with us in town.
speaker2: never, thank you...
speaker1: okay, then don't..by the way..the phrase is "no, thank you."

speaker1: please, dear god..enter my mother's heart and make her understand what this school would mean. 
speaker2: alright. i look.
speaker1: amen.

speaker1: hi, flor, want some port? 
speaker2: no, thank you, evelyn.
speaker1: thanks for never judging me..love you. love everybody. that's what's killing me.. sleep well.

speaker1: me? deborah will be home soon. i just talked to her. 
speaker2: i need real talk..is it okay?
speaker2: no?
speaker1: sure.
speaker2: outside? private?
speaker1: sure..... you have me a little worried...

speaker1: you know about cristina and your great school? 
speaker2: oh, it's happened. is it driving you nuts?
speaker1: yes, nuts. i have no idea what to do. such an important thing.
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: it's a good school?
speaker2: tops. it's tops.
speaker1: so you like it?

speaker1: no. i hate the school. but that's because they keep sending my daughter home anxiety-ridden, mostly over geometry..i mean you "get" bernice..in a decent world her school should let her know how great she is, right? 
speaker2: very right.
speaker1: so, don't ask me..i'm worried about my own kid there.
speaker2: you don't have to worry about bernice. nothing is going to change that heart.
speaker1: um.....yeah..thanks... it's great to hear someone else say that out loud..hard to explain.
speaker2: i "get" it.
speaker1: ah, man..
speaker2: it will be okay.
speaker1: no, i was thinking about you..
speaker2: your, "ah, man" was for me? you think i am in trouble with cristina?
speaker1: it's just tough to be sane.

speaker1: john to know you're not just making something out of nothing. that when you think you're at some crossroads - you are. 
speaker2: ....i never know a man who can put himself in my place like you do.
speaker3: i don't know...you introduce two jews in the desert and wait five thousand years. then, bingo, somebody else who can see trouble coming but can't do anything about it.
speaker2: i don't understand.
speaker3: that's okay.
speaker2: i want to.
speaker3: nothing. i don't know what i'm talking about..
speaker3: will you sit down.. get out of the wind.
speaker3: so you going to send her?
speaker2: i don't know. but it does not feel good. i think if she goes there it will be one of two things..either she will be odd...or she will make herself the same as them.
speaker3: that is exactly the way i felt about bernice going there..exactly.

speaker1: john i wasn't able to think it that clearly...but that's how i felt. so between odd and the same...you gotta root for odd, don't you? 
speaker2: yes, you gotta.
speaker3: this was a crummy summer.
speaker2: not all crummy.
speaker2: thank you, good night. i go sleep.
speaker3: good night..hey?
speaker3: you speaking english...it's, uh..
speaker2: what?
speaker3: nothing. just.... nice meeting you.

speaker1: i picked up your books yesterday.. this is one of bernie's old..ancient backpacks. 
speaker2: oh, thank you..
speaker2: this is a great school.
speaker1: it's from me and....bernice. okay? it is a big day.
speaker3: what did we get her?
speaker1: it's from all of us. your mother too.
speaker4: it's not from me...

speaker1: there is a terrible crisis which comes when your own personality is not equal to the challenge you face. when being who you are no longer works. 
speaker2: left...left.
speaker2: left...left...

speaker1: why am i not surprised you're competitive? 
speaker1: oh, they're delivering my table.
speaker1: you are fast.. better pace yourself though..

speaker1: you feel okay? 
speaker2: no. i've given up drinking. i had to do it john..i need every brain cell to watch out for all of us..given the current climate. anyway. john, i think you're great and i'm going to act accordingly.
speaker1: good deal.
speaker2: let's hope.

speaker1: flor? deb..look, sorry to call you so late, but they're still studying and i'm going out but i promised to get her back so if you want me to cut off the school work, fine...whatever you want me to do. well, okay..you think about it.. and hey, if you're tired, or want to play, let her sleep here and i'll get her back there tomorrow. you still want to think about it? okay.. she hangs up...and exchanges a mischievous look with cristina. 
speaker2: though it is possible to judge harshly my conduct toward my mother in my first year at school; almost all professional literature excuses my behavior as developmental, since i was entering an age where rebellion and narcissism were to be expected. and i was being mentored.

speaker1: wait! 
speaker1: i need to talk to you privately, honey.
speaker2: "honey?"-- can't now, mom...i'm late..i was looking all over for you...keep an eye on the kids. you know my secret cell number.
speaker1: just give me a moment to talk here..
speaker2: what is it? are you buzzed?
speaker1: no. i gave up drinking weeks ago. yes. nobody noticed -- which shows i probably conducted myself pretty well as a drunk. but duty called and i'm sober so may i say just one thing.
speaker2: one thing..go ahead...
speaker1: thanks..deborah, you're going to lose your husband and you'll never find someone as good. there will only be men who you know are cheap and shallow and have no real warmth in their souls. you may have gotten by on those surfaces once but now you've been spoiled by a good man and you can no longer glide on such thin ice. if you do not act quickly you will soon cement an awful fate for yourself. a life, with no hope of repair, which has already begun to turn desperate and dumb. that's it. drive safely.

speaker1: you've done it again, mom, made me hate myself..one of the things i can count on.. 
speaker2: honey, lately your low self-esteem is just good common sense.

speaker1: john, better wait a minute. 
speaker2: what the hell's wrong?
speaker1: nothing. in all futility, can i urge you not to go up there.

speaker1: deb..deb?..where are you? 
speaker2: here i am.
speaker1: baby, what?
speaker2: "baby?" stay there, john...sit down..i suddenly get what i have to do...i just have to get the guts.
speaker1: is it absolutely necessary to make it this...this scary..can you just say it?
speaker2: not so easy.
speaker1: yeah..come on..it's me. we can talk.
speaker2: do i ever hope so...i've been seeing another man for the last eleven weeks and it was nothing and i ended it tonight..at first it was just keeping an eye on the real estate market..then it was...what? me being insecure and looking for some ridiculous vali...

speaker1: a shock victim..he holds up a hand to stop her.. 
speaker2: go -- hold on...hold on...i'm missing what you're saying..you can't just keep talking and expect me to follow it when you start the way you did.......
speaker3: just what did you hear?
speaker2: well there was the crack in the planet. that was noisy...
speaker2: there's an actual noise in my head.....no kidding..
speaker3: i met him about...
speaker2: you..
speaker3: i met him..
speaker2: if you talk that fast...i'll never hear you..there's a lot going through my mind....have you said yet whether you slept with him?
speaker3: so far i've just been talking about a flirtation because the really important thing for you to know...
speaker2: have you said yet whether you've had with someone else? because i really am missing most of your words. so help me out here..

speaker1: i've been trying to explain that for the first ten weeks there was almost nothing to ... 
speaker2: you still haven't said, right?
speaker1: is this your way of...
speaker2: this is my way of...this is my way of asking you whether..
speaker2: oh man, once i ask it...give me a second. i'm just trying to figure out whether there's any way to avoid knowing..no, there's not... okay, you're on..real short answer, huh? have you had with another..
speaker1: i know you're very angry?
speaker2: ahhhh...i'm getting there, yes.
speaker1: john? i think if you let me tell you the full everything of this we'd be in a position to deal with it better..because eleven weeks ago when...

speaker1: you don't believe that i miss your words..i get three or four tops...and then just see your mouth moving with nothing coming out and then i spin out and there's this noise...but there's no way to miss a "yes" or "no." 
speaker2: yes..
speaker1: really?
speaker2: i made up my mind that i would answer every question you had..i'll answer anything and everything and more.
speaker1: what other questions could there be?
speaker2: are you really that much nicer than me?
speaker1: well, you don't set the bar real high.
speaker2: no. please, please, please..i think if you listen to exactly what happened and then do whatever you need to...we'll..just let me tell you everything..
speaker2: oh, it's just flor.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: i want cristina. i want to talk to mrs. clasky. i want to quit.
speaker1: i don't think you can do any of it right this minute..
speaker2: oh, yes..where's cristina?
speaker3: ...then, when i was driving back tonight after i ended the whole yuck thing..i was feeling human. i'm done with what's his name..a relief... ..and now it can be like it never happened and then i thought that the only hope was that i own that it did happen and that i take my medicine here..because if i'm walking around with what i did and you don't know what i did..there is a real limit to how close we can be..you're with me and i'm this person who has this bad secret and we aren't really on the same page ever again..so the reason i took this chance in telling -- is because i want us to be good..i want us to be close. i want to feel like you're not nuts to be in love with me..so what i think is we should talk till we pass out .. talk till we're so sick of each other that there's nothing left to do but take the first step out of hell..so please let's not leave this room until you've heard and said everything..please say, okay..
speaker4: what?

speaker1: john.. 
speaker2: i've got to get out of here..because you keep talking. stay put!
speaker1: you've got to say something.
speaker2: you are a terrible wife.

speaker1: where you going? 
speaker2: i'm leaving....i have finally..
speaker1: me too..i'll drive you.
speaker2: no.
speaker1: yes..come on...it's past midnight here.
speaker2: if you truly don't know why i say "no" let me at last say the reason. at least that will be a relief.

speaker1: look i have to get out of here right now.. 
speaker2: go..
speaker2: goodbye, chum.

speaker1: i'm taking you. 
speaker2: why?!?
speaker1: because if i don't -- i'll worry about you and i can't handle that right now, okay?
speaker2: ahhhhh. i never made that sound over a man before..

speaker1: please!?! mandilã³n. 
speaker2: deborah watching them...

speaker1: arrchhhhhyeeeeiii! 
speaker2: yes! exactly! well put! teach me that word sometime. i can really use it.
speaker1: i quit this job!
speaker2: i quit this job!!!!!

speaker1: that's the bus stop. 
speaker2: i'll take you home.
speaker1: no. drop me at a bus.
speaker2: oh, shut up and stop telling me what to do.
speaker1: okay...then let's do something besides driving me home where my daughter isn't.
speaker2: okay..we'll do something.
speaker1: and i'm supposed to figure out what because i'm a housekeeper and you don't have to think.
speaker2: oh, don't do the class thing, man..you don't know where i come from.
speaker1: alright, i know. but i can't be responsible no more for making sure nothing happens. that's another terrible job i quit.
speaker2: what are you talking about? i take responsibility for anything within a block. you have nothing to worry about. that's my job.
speaker1: excellent. so you're going to figure out what we do, right?
speaker2: yes. okay. big man figure out!
speaker1: stop there.

speaker1: this is me when i'm not working.. 
speaker2: well, you look familiar.
speaker1: so, "man," where we heading?
speaker2: i don't think i can handle public..
speaker1: yes, no...lots of people right now is..
speaker2: i know.
speaker1: you were going to figure this out!
speaker2: my place!

speaker1: i've never seen your place. very perfect. 
speaker2: i'm going to cook, beautiful. i'm going to cook beautifully.
speaker1: hey..please..
speaker1: we both were not normal because we are angry and we act like we are angry with each other and we are not..i am not. i am glad to be with you. it feels comfortable to be with you. if i just left the job and never spoke with you it would have been sin. you understand?
speaker2: ummmmmmmmm...yes.

speaker1: i think i'm inventing a horrible new way of making out.. 
speaker2: not so horrible.....
speaker1: my hand is the only sane part of my body..every other part wants to jump off a cliff.

speaker1: if the other hand could cheer up, you could lift me up and carry me off. 
speaker2: i don't know how to handle that one. i think i already broke my record for smooth.
speaker1: i don't understand.
speaker2: it's me. i'm not making sense. but i can get you fed.

speaker1: nothing to be nervous about. you are not on a date... hey, flor? 
speaker2: yes, john.
speaker1: what are you doing?

speaker1: just lighting candles and picking music. oooh. 
speaker2: you want a drink?
speaker2: huh?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: i, uh...don't think you should either.
speaker2: then excuse me, because if i had the equipment i'd inject the vodka.
speaker1: wait!
speaker1: it is very good that you did not ask, "why?"
speaker2: keep things real, right?
speaker1: i wouldn't have put it so well.

speaker1: i will remember every taste..forever. 
speaker2: tell you the truth..i wanted a shot at cooking for you. i'm very glad you liked it.
speaker1: it's something watching you.
speaker2: well, if it's anything at your end imagine over here...scratch that..the last thing you want to hear is somebody going off on your looks.
speaker1: don't be crazy. tell me every detail.
speaker2: okay, flor, yes i will...they should name a gender after you..looking at you doesn't do it..staring is the only thing that makes sense..and trying not to blink so you don't miss anything.
speaker2: look..forgive me..i'm.....it's just that you are drop-dead, crazy- gorgeous..so much so that i am really considering looking at you again before we finish up here.
speaker1: soon, please.

speaker1: right now....immediately..we have to dance or kiss. 
speaker2: her face..
speaker3: no contest.
speaker1: you sure you're not mexican.
speaker3: what do you mean?
speaker1: i meant you talk like a spanish song.
speaker3: you kiss like a spanish fly.. joking around. i don't know what i'm talking about...
speaker1: yes you do.

speaker1: she begins to translate the lyrics. 
speaker2: when i kiss you, entire oceans rush through my veins.. gardens of flowers blossom in my body.
speaker2: and you wander along my fertile soil, picking its ripe fruit..a nightingale undresses on my tongue..and under its wings..
speaker3: i'm sorry. i don't know what i just took out of you but tell me how to get it back in there..i'm sorry.
speaker4: the downcast eyes rise to see him..
speaker2: then respect this.
speaker3: here's something i never asked anyone..did nightingales undress on your tongue?
speaker2: did they on yours?
speaker3: yeah...

speaker1: oh, johnny, why is everything so confusing? 
speaker2: culpa.
speaker1: is your mind racing?
speaker2: i would say my mind has evaporated...but that there are remnants still standing waiting to fall. it feels pretty good.
speaker1: like happy?
speaker2: like happy.
speaker1: you think that will last?
speaker2: it's already gone.
speaker1: i understand what you mean.
speaker2: i don't understand what i mean.

speaker1: that it's getting late. that responsibilities have entered your brain. don't hide that from me. and really, one large reason we are here is because you respect me as a mother and i respect you as a father.. 
speaker2: you're a great and wild mother.
speaker1: you are a beautiful father.
speaker1: when cristina was young, i would say i want to take any man who wants me to the park and i will tell whether i want him from the way he is with cristina. i wish you had been in the park then. any reaction?
speaker2: exactly!..
speaker1: you know, i always think about when you...oh, there's no point. i talk too much... ...because i don't know if we ever talk again.
speaker2: hey, hey..how do you get there?
speaker1: yes you do. be honest.
speaker2: i'm being honest. look at us - i think i call it honesty.

speaker1: what are we going to do -- go home, let our hearts go back in our bodies, see each other a few more times. make a tragedy out of us.. 
speaker1: ahhhhhhh. there are some mistakes you cannot risk when you have kids...please, are you ready to go?
speaker2: no. i'm not. no. stay put for a second. stay here. once our feet touch that floor, i'm going to get too many brain cells back. so don't be in such a hurry. that floor, flor, is going to eat us alive. so you think it was a mistake up to now. that's rough.
speaker1: the mistake....i love it.

speaker1: tell me again why i can't call him on the cell. 
speaker2: besides that he turned it off?
speaker1: yes.

speaker1: forty messages start to look needy. 
speaker2: mother, you're enjoying this.
speaker1: no..definitely not in the way you think.
speaker2: you are enjoying it?!?
speaker1: i am enjoying actually being of use to my daughter. i am enjoying the fact that i really know how to advise you and the miracle that you are so deeply disoriented that you are gobbling up everything i say. deborah nods in agreement -- then looks at her mother in a somewhat new way..as if evelyn were an actual person instead of an upsetting extension of herself.
speaker2: there's one thing i'd like to say to you about you and me.
speaker1: you don't have to.
speaker2: i want to.
speaker1: okay.
speaker2: you were an alcoholic and wildly promiscuous woman during my formative years so that i am in this fix because of you. it is your fault. i just needed.. ..that moment for us.
speaker1: you have a solid point, dear. but right now the lessons of my life are coming in handy for you.

speaker1: there's a car coming.... 
speaker1: it's him...he's got to tell me everything..
speaker1: yes!
speaker2: do you know that right now you are your own worst enemy..that you can't trust one thought in your brain?
speaker1: duh.
speaker2: then trust me and only allow yourself to say one thing to him..one thing..."i'm so glad you're back."
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: but i've got to know whether he touched her - where he touched her - how he touched her - if they broke a sweat --- what they said - who made the first move - how they left it -- if anyone loves anyone or has an intention of making contact in the future - what she wore - how he felt afterwards - whether anyone mentioned me.. ..whether they held hands when they left.. the distinct sound of a door opening and closing from downstairs.

speaker1: just those words i said. if you want a prayer of coming out of this. 
speaker2: i know you're right..but..
speaker1: but what?
speaker2: i forgot the sentence you said i should say.
speaker1: "i'm so glad you're back."
speaker2: okay..do i have to wait here?
speaker1: no..he may not come up here..go to him.
speaker2: why wouldn't he come up here?
speaker1: just go.
speaker2: do i need a little makeup?
speaker1: you need a hose but you don't have the time. it's fine that you look like that. it's genuine..you can use genuine.
speaker2: thank you, mom.

speaker1: i'm so glad to see you ..that you're back. 
speaker2: it's late, deborah.
speaker1: well, i just wanted to say.. what i said..
speaker1: uhhhh..
speaker2: i can't sleep upstairs with you.. just can't for now.
speaker1: i'm just so glad you're back.
speaker2: yeah..okay.

speaker1: deb, i'm done tonight. i don't think we can jam anything else in. 
speaker2: it's me, dad.
speaker1: what's up, honey?
speaker3: just thought i'd check that you were back and okay and all.
speaker1: because?
speaker3: mom was crying for six hours straight and grandma was in with her all that time mostly saying, "he'll be back..he'll be back." i've got to get back to georgie.
speaker1: i just hate that you had that kind of a night.
speaker3: it's good for me to worry about something that really matters instead of the stupid stuff that's usually on my mind...
speaker1: like?

speaker1: surviving. 
speaker2: you're fantastic, bernie...i love you.
speaker1: it's a slant... hey..i know there's a lot you went through but i knew all along that grandma was right about you coming back..i mean totally knew it so i wasn't that worried. but still i... i really appreciate it, dad. thanks....stop staring at me..what?
speaker2: right. i don't know what to say.
speaker1: just what you taught me..you're welcome.
speaker2: you're welcome.

speaker1: no... no..and we must say "goodbye." i don't work here anymore. she then talks spanish to cristina..admonishing her not to embarrass them..something about flor being prepared to go nuts all over her daughter if she hurts their dignity...but it is said with total calm. 
speaker2: do i have to get out?
speaker1: no, georgie..stay. i think you are a wonderful boy..be good..like you are. there are no monsters.
speaker2: thanks..thanks. okay.
speaker3: i can't believe you didn't get out.
speaker2: flor said.
speaker3: i don't want to get you wet.
speaker1: get me wet.
speaker3: thanks.
speaker4: you...are...a...trip.
speaker1: you're a beauty. amazing girl.

speaker1: my last chance to have some of you rub off on me.. i'm sorry you're so sad but this could have been so much worse. 
speaker2: how?
speaker3: why don't you run upstairs and say goodbye to deborah?
speaker4: i'll be in front.
speaker5: please come see me.
speaker6: it's okay, honey..we'll see each other at school..i'm going to keep an eye on you..i will.

speaker1: what's with avoiding me, am i this horrible person? 
speaker1: i know. it's a ridiculous question but sometimes i'm ridi...
speaker2: no. it's a good question. a fine question. complicated. i was just thinking to answer.
speaker1: oh stop. come on. weren't we close?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: well, i'm very, very disappointed to hear that. it makes me feel like a fool.
speaker2: we weren't close..but we were connected...in a bad way.
speaker1: you know something, i think we're saying the same thing...look as long as we're doing closure..what did you and my husband, john, do last night?
speaker2: i can only tell you what i did.

speaker1: that will be sufficient. 
speaker2: i became sure of what an incredibly lucky woman you are and i must make myself not envy you which is hard. no, it's not hard. it's impossible.
speaker1: same here - believe me.
speaker2: cristina, apãºrate.

speaker1: i was hanging out here waiting. can't give you guys a lift? 
speaker1: this is killer. incredibly hard.
speaker2: yes, cari..
speaker1: let her have it..party favors.

speaker1: cristina.. 
speaker2: goodbye, mr. clasky..i am very sorry we will not see each other as frequently.
speaker1: yes. they turn and begin walking down the street.

speaker1: the first minute we were alone, my mother told me that i would no longer go to the private school. 
speaker2: no. no..you can't. i won't be able to forgive you..it will be the end. i won't let you.
speaker3: so we can see their faces in the struggle.

speaker1: for that reason should you choose to grant me your scholarship my mother, at my request, will be relocating to the new york metropolitan area so that she can stay close during my time at princeton. 
speaker1: i hope my essay has done her justice. i love her with all my heart.

