MICKY: ignoring punches, keeps 
SPREADING ASPHALT): will you help me finish this?
DICKY: you knocked my block off!
MICKY: you knocked my block off!
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 1a.

MICKY: -six, seven, eight. [takes dicky's hands] can you continue? [dicky nods] who's the president? 
DICKY: five o'clock.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 2.

DICKY: he's down! micky ward is down! 4- 3-2-1, it's ovah! he's out! a surprising ovahhand right! ecklund jr. is back, right hereon hbo, ladies and gentlemen! 
DICKY: the pride a lowell is back!
DICKY: my brothah's gonna beat mamby, next week, on espn, sorry hbo!

ALICE: no! i'm not ready! 
DICKY: my sistahs!
DICKY: that's red dog, sherry, the baby, beavah, pork, little alice, donna, and tar. they follow my muthah everywhere!
MICKY: holding a napkin to his
FACE): i'm mary, the eighth sister.
FACE): the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 4a.

HBO PRODUCER: i'm confused, george's whose father? 
DICKY: - who knows how many fathahs, alice ain't prejudice, she gives everybody a chance!

SHERRY: and donna's, gail's and phyllis's fathah. 
SHERRY: and even though i'm an eklund, and so is cindy and cathy, george is really our dad.
DICKY: george is my poppa.
MICKY: but we got the eklund name.
ALICE: ecklund and i were separated. it's not like i was foolin' around.
TAR: georgie's fingahs are so fat he can't dial the phone.
GEORGE: shut up, tah.
ALICE: that's not helpin', george.
RED DOG: look at that fat thing!

GEORGE: you can't beat that ass, come on. 
GEORGE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 6aa.

CHARLENE: are you gonna say anything? are you gonna order a drink? are you gonna just stand there lookin' at my ass? your father looks at my but at least he talks. 
CHARLENE: he thinks you're the greatest, but he didn't tell me you're mute.
MICKY: you're kenny fleming's sistah.
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 6a.

CHARLENE: oh, you talk. you pave streets, right? 
MICKY: i do, and i'm a fightah.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 7.

CHARLENE: i heard you're a steppin' stone. 
MICKY: a steppin' stone?! i'm no steppin' stone. what do you mean steppin' stone?
CHARLENE: the guy -- they use -- against othah fightahs to move the othah fightahs up.
MICKY: maybe i had a few -- tough fights, but that's not who i am. [she stares at him, gauging him]. next's gonna show who i am.
DRUNK GUY: he's gonna lose again! [micky looks away, pissed, like he's gonna leave]. scotch and soda one for me and one for charlene, move that sugar and get the drinks!
MICKY: be nice! be respectful. don't disrespect her.
DICKY: don't hurt ya hands, we got a fight next week! - what you say to my bruthah? what you say to me?
DRUNK GUY: i'm sorry. i'm sorry, micky.
( CCNTTNTTPD 1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 7a.

DICKY: and whatta ya say to me? 
DRUNK GUY: i'm sorry, dicky.
DICKY: to charlene, hugs micky's
SHOULDERS): that's right, and i'm takin' ya drink. my bruthah's gonna beat saoul mamby! this guy's gonna be a champion, he's a great guy, a great fightah.
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 8.

MICKY: that's my big brothah. taught me everything i know. hbo's doin' a movie about 'im. 
CHARLENE: everybody's talkin' about it. but who are you fightin'? saoul, sal, saul? mamby, mamby. momby. what kinda name is saoul mamby?
MICKY: black. and jewish.
CHARLENE: where'd they find a guy like that?
MICKY: he's no joke, formah world champ.
CHARLENE: formah champ.
MICKY: but i match up good against him.
CHARLENE: what's that mean?
MICKY: i'm lightah, not gonna brawl him, i'm gonna outbox him.
CHARLENE: i didn't know there was a difference.
MICKY: brawl, ya slug it out, i hit you, you hit me; boxin', like a chess game, i pick my punches to take him down. i'm gonna go head, body, head, body, see i go up his side, i hit him here, arm comes down, i go back up [demonstrates on her, close, looks at her shy] i'd like to maybe take you out some time.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 8aa.

CHARLENE: are you married? 
MICKY: married? would i ask you out if i was married?
CHARLENE: it happens all the time, trust me.
MICKY: i'm not married. i wanna get to know you bettah. i could take you to dinnah and a movie, how 'bout that? i'm not married. i got a daughtah i see every othah weekend.
CHARLENE: when?
MICKY: saturday i get back from atlantic city.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 8a.

MICKY: next saturday. dinnah and a movie. 
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 9.

HBO CAMERAMAN: why is gail the toughest? 
SHERRY: cuz she's quiet, but she'll straighten anyone out.
HBO CAMERAMAN: whose your mother's favorite?
TAR: the princesses.
SHERRY: the girls.
RED DOG: they never had to do nothin', never take out the garbage, or clean--
SHERRY: you can never wake 'em up, shhh, the babies ah sleepin'.
MICKY: that's cuz we hadda train! come on!
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 9a.

SHERRY: [starts crying] this is ah family and they're makin' a movie, it's us 
SHERRY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 10.

RED DOG: she's the baby, sherry's the baby, very emotional. 
TAR: ah mothah's excited about the movie, dicky comin' back. and we hope micky wins .

MICKY: dicky's six years older than me. i used to carry his bags to his workouts, some of his fights. he's a born fighter, very natural talent. i always hadda work harder, and he's been my teacher. he's -- ya know - [real love] dicky, nobody talks like him, moves like him, he fought sugar ray leonard, ten rounds, he's the hero of lowell. everybody knows dicky. 
HBO PRODUCER: he's s'pposed to be trainin' you right now, right? is he still coming or did we mix this up?
SISTERS: he'll be here -- should be --
MICKY: he kinda goes on his own schedule sometimes. he'll be here. --
MICKY O'KEEFE: you know where he is --
MICKEY O'KEEFE: you gotta fight next week, micky, you gotta be trainin' on time.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: come on, i can do the mits for ya, but then i gotta get back to work. 
ALICE: what's he doin'? where's dicky?
MICKY: look at alice! all dressed up for the movie!
ALICE: outta the ring, o'keefe, you can't do what my dicky does!
MICKEY O'KEEFE: your dicky ain't here, alice.
MICKY: where could he possibly be, ma?

ALICE: oh, micky. micky's a clown. dicky went to the store for me. 
MICKY: yeah. he'll be here.
ALICE: get outta the ring, o'keefe, dicky's the numbah one trainah, should be that way in the movie.
MICKEY O'KEEFE: i come by to help! i gotta go back to work anyhow, it ain't fair to micky. he needs to be trainin'. he's not bein' handled right.
ALICE: don't -- he's not part of this, forget him. he's numbah two man

ALICE: you need me walkin' in again? - i wasn't ready last night, but i'm ready today. 
SISTERS: she's all dressed up! look at her!
MICKY: alice is dressed up.
ALICE: that's the golden gloves, before that the silvah mittens, micky did that too. micky used to follow his big brothah everywhere, dicky taught ya everything, right, honey?
ALICE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 11a.
7 CONTINUED:  7: micky raises eyebrows, nods.
MICKY: he's not only a great fighter, he's also a pretty great trainer.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 12.

ALICE: my dicky had went pro at 12, rockingham race track with a 26 year old jockey. both weighed 106 pounds. dicky lied he was 18. 
MICKY: tell 'im about sugar ray, ma. dicky knocked down sugar ray leonard.
ALICE: in '78 -- we got the offah to fight sugah ray leonahd.
MICKY: he just won the gold medal at the olympics, sugar ray. he was the, ya know, the big new welter weight at that time.
ALICE: and dicky was just a kid from lowell.
MICKY: dicky was undefeated!
ALICE: dicky had never been knocked down in his professional career, neither had sugar ray. they were both 21- yeahs-old.
MICKY: it was dicky's first ten roundah.
ALICE: i know ya could question the judgement, first ten roundah against sugar ray leonard, right? but as his managah, how could i not take a sugah ray? do you see what i'm saying? it was the biggest thing that evah happened to lowell.

ALICE: 15 years earlier, already 
HALF-IN-THE-BAG): tonight my son is gonna surprise everybody and beat sugar ray leonard. believe it, i know it.

ALICE: it's true! sugar ray had a hard time hitting dickie, didn't really knock him down, but dicky knocked ray down! i wore a new white dress. this fight was gonna change our lives forevah, and it did. 
(CONTTNTTFM: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 13.

DICKY: wasn't a knockdown. 
DICKY: booboo put ya hands up, stand like sugah ray i gotta get ready for my movie!
BOOBOO: why they doin' a movie on you?
KAREN: legend-a lowell, booboo! comeback! come on! the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 14.

DICKY: there it is! first knock downa sugar ray's career! 
WOLFIE: snaps to rare moment of
LUCIDITY): ain't ya 'sposed to be trainin' micky in the movie right now?
DICKY: that's not til 9.
BECKY: it's 11:45,
DICKY: what?!

DICKY: where'd you pahk the cah, booboo? 
BOOBOO: i didn't pahk it, you did!

BOOBOO: roadwork?! are you crazy? 
WOLFIE: he runs great even when he's high.
DICKY: hey, pappa!

DICKY: quackah! 
MICKY: quackah! look who decided to show up, dicky donuts.
ALICE AND SISTERS: ahh! dicky! quackah!
(CNNTTNTTFM: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 16.

DICKY: notices alice's hair, 
TOUCHES IT): - this is nice.
DICKY: you been talkin' to the camera, mick? introduce everybody! hoppy cut!
MICKY: -hoppy cut!
DICKY: goncho, goncho, no goo' for yooou, deeckie, no goo' for youuu!'
CARLOS: no goo for you, deeckie!
RAY RAMALHO: dickyeeeee!
DICKY: ray-ray! put ya hands like this, turn that punch. turn it. ya ready for the camrahs?
HBO PRODUCER: are you annoyed that dicky's late?

DICKY: micky, how do ya make a girl sound just like a porpoise? 
MICKY: i don't know, how?
DICKY: ya go for the back door [looks over his shoulder, shakes his head 'no' ]" "eh-eh! eh-eh!' [everyone cracks up] i had a lot of eggs this mornin' i'm full of yokes!
DICKY: my back! my back!
MICKY: "my back! my back! i'm full a yokes!" quackah!
DICKY: we got saoul mamby. jewish, black, formah world champ. i think we got all the bases covahed, right? micky lost three fights in a row, he can't get used to losin', it becomes a mental thing, we're gonna break it with mamby, right?
MICKY: yeah, let's train!
(CONTTNTTRD: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 17.

DICKY: enough a you wastin' time, mick, half the day's gone, we got work to do! 
DICKY: oooh, alice, he's mad now, look at him. ya hit one those guys like ya wanna hit me right now maybe ya woulda won one of them fights! see? he's a quiet guy, he needs the fire.

DICKY: work, work, head, body, head, body. [to camera] set it up sneaky, switches stances inside. no! [shoves micky] that's too far out, switch inside, see, he switches outside, i'm gonna catch him like this, [upper cuts micky, nails him], don't switch outside! 
DICKY: gimme jose!

DICKY: micky does everythin' i tell him, he's goin' all the way to a world title! now move, that's why you dropped the weight! we're gonna out box mamby. [now to producer] three months. i can get myself back in shape in three months. 
ALICE: my dicky can do anything!
DICKY: hook-- head-body-head! c'mon! that's ya combo, head-body- head!
ALICE: dicky taught him that!
DICKY: ya know sugah ray's gonna be there callin' the fight for espn. i ain't seen him since since i knocked 'im down 14 yeahs ago. you don't wanna embarrass yaself in front a sugah ray, do ya mick?!
DICKY: that's ya punch, micky.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 19.

ALICE: both my boys are gonna do it! 
MICKY: hey jose, i'm sorry. [helps jose

MICKY: i feel good. i feel lightah. 
DICKY: you look good! you can definitely do this. you look good in there, micky, real good. [false teeth sideways, crazy face]. i'm saoul mamby, micky ward hit me -
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 19a.

ALICE: scrunches her neck and shoulder, squirms away 
LAUGHING): i can't stand that, dicky,

LAURIE: what's he doing here? this isn't your visitation day, micky. 
MICKY: i just wanna say hi to kasie.
LAURIE: it's not your day, goodbye.
MICKY: i'm not around next weekend --
LAURIE: now you're ditchin' the days you do have?
MICKY: i have a fight i told you that. jimmy --
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 21.

JIMMY: i can't get in the middle. 
MICKY: i'm asking you, jimmy. i can't talk to her, so i'm asking you.
JIMMY: kasie, talk to your father.
LAURIE: goddamnit, jimmy!
JIMMY: don't put me in the middle-a this
KASIE: daddy's gotta fight saoul mamby-
MICKY: that's right, and i wanna tell ya that after i win --
LAURIE: talk to her on your days!
MICKY: i'm gonna staht makin' good money
LAURIE: hah! that's a good one!
MICKY: i'll move to a biggah apahtment so you can live with me more days like we talked about.
LAURIE: don't hold ya breath, kasie. it's cruel to mislead ya child, micky.
KASIE: good luck, daddy! the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 22.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: it's none a my business, but i been goin' to meetin's, and they say let go and let gahd. you don't need this micky. let's just go without 'im. 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 23.

MICKY: - thanks, mick, but dicky taught me everything, he's been in my cornah, ya know. i can't do it without 'im. 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: you're already doin' it without him.

WOLFIE: dicky, your muthuah's outside! 
DICKY: i'm not here!

MICKY: what the are you doin'? 
DICKY: don't tell ma i'm here, pick me up back at the house, i'll go through the yahds -
MICKY: we gotta go to the airport now. you know how important this fight is.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 23aa.

DICKY: pick me up at the house! 
MICKY: hurry up, she's out front, and we gotta flight to catch.

GEORGE: this is what you do to ya brothah the day we travel? 
MICKY: could we please just go to the airport for once?
ALICE: ohmygawd, dicky, why do you come to this place?
DICKY: no, no, i just came to check on some friends, i'm not mixed up in this.
MICKY: help ya husband up, alice. ya husband's on the ground there.

MICKY: close the door. 
DICKY: hold on.
MICKEY O'KEEFE: what the is he doin' here?
MICKEY O'KEEFE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 25.

DICKY: we got a promotional thing we're doin', for the bar, it's gonna be good, you'll see. 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: no. that's distracting for micky.
DICKY: nobody asked you!
MICKY: no. no booboo.

DICKY: see his right ahm goes leaves his side open, light him up like a pinball machine, he'll be pissin' blood, no way you lose, no way - 
DICKY: espn couldn't get us bettah rooms than this, lou?
LOU GOLD: i wouldn't worry about the rooms, dicky, we gotta bigger issue.
LOU GOLD: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 26.

DICKY: like what? 
ALICE: the doctor won't let mamby fight.
MICKY: why not?
LOU GOLD: he's got the flu.
MICKY: mamby got the flu?!
MICKY: feels his whole fight plan go out the window.
LOU GOLD: we can still have a fight, micky.
MICKY: with who?
LOU GOLD: mike mungin.
MICKY: mike who? mungin?
DICKY: the guy from philly, ain't he in prison?
LOU GOLD: he's been out a few months. it's the only guy we could find, i called everybody.
MICKY: the last few fights were rough, lou, this one's 'sposed to be a little easiah.
LOU GOLD: the guy just got off the couch today, it's an easy win for micky.
LOU GOLD: joey ferrell knocked this guy out. 1 the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 27.

ALICE: micky knocked out joey ferrell. 
LOU GOLD: exactly, and mungin just got off the couch. he can't make weight, of course, he's a bit over.
ALICE: how over?
LOU GOLD: maybe 162, 165.

DICKY: he's a middleweight, ron! 
ALICE: micky got light! he's 146!
DICKY: we're gonna box mamby, not slug it out with a middleweight!
LOU GOLD: he's fat! he just got off the couch!
DICKIE: ok. and joey ferrell knocked him out. i gotcha.
MICKY: hold on, 165's big.
DICKIE: you knocked out joey ferrell.
MICKY: so what? the guy's a middleweight.
DICKIE: he just got off the couch.
MICKY: he's 20 pounds bigger than me.
(CONTTNIWN 1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 27a.

DICKY: joey ferrell knocked him out! you knocked out joey ferrell. 
MICKY: you just said that.
DICKIE: you can't be scared.
MICKY: how 'bout you go fight him? he's a middleweight.
DICKIE: he's fat. you knocked out joey ferrell.
MICKY: how many times ya gonna say i knocked out joey ferrell? a beats b b beats c so a can beat c? but what if it rains that day, anything could happen --
LOU GOLD: you don't fight, nobody gets paid.
MICKY: ok. joey ferrell knocked this guy out. and i knocked out joey ferrell.
ALICE: you gotta pay us somethin' extra for the change, lou. [he nods]

MICKY: i don't spell my name with an 'e. 
(CNNTTNTTF N': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 28.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: don't ask me. i just take what ya give me. 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: that guy's not a welter weight.
MICKY: dicky, look at that guy.
DICKY: ray! sugah ray! ovah heah!
DICKY: we gotta talk latah!
MICKY: dicky, listen to me. i can't lose again. look at that guy.

DICKY: holy [rubs micky's neck] 
MICKY O'KEEFE: yeah, holy stop lookin' at sugar ray and wake up. we'll hafta run the first few rounds, get 'im tiahed, he can't be ready, right? he just got off his couch.
MICKY: he did not just get off his couch.
DICKY: look at me, mick, don't look away.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 28a.

DICKY: - button it up, ed. if you can't stop the bleedin', we'll sue ya. 
DICKY: you okay?
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 30.

DICKY: raaaaaaay! hey, ray,-- 
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: tough night for your brother, he shoulda jabbed more, stayed away.
DICKY: that's what i was tellin' 'im! i told 'im, ray. but mungin weighs like 160 pounds! espn us,-- ya know i knocked ray down.
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: come on, dick, i tripped.
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 32.

DICKY: oh don't say that now. i know i look like but,-- i went 10 rounds with you, ray, i knocked you down. c'mon, lemme buy you guys a drink. 
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: thanks, dick, but we have to get going, i have a plane to catch.
DICKY: points to the hbo
CAMERAMAN): hbo's doin' a movie on me, ray. and i'd like to call ya sometime, i'm gonna get a fight, and i'd like ya to be there for old time's sakes, ya know, maybe you can commentate on it or somethin'.
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: ok, dick, you let me know. what's the movie about?
DICKY: looks at sugar ray like he's crazy; what
ELSE): my comeback.
SUGAR RAY LEONARD: - you look great mrs. ward, hope you're well.
ALICE: nevah bettah, ray, nevah bettah. bless.

DICKY: what's he talkin' to mike toma for? 
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 33.

MIKE TOMA: shakes his head, gruff 
BROOKLYN ACCENT): you goin' to the hospital?
MICKY: they said i need stitches.
MIKE TOMA: listen, mick, i'm just gonna cut to it, you never shoulda fought that guy. you should be doin' better. with all due respect, i don't think you're bein' handled properly. i wanna give you a real shot. i want ya to come with me. i wanna pay ya to train with my guys.
MICKY: where?
MIKE TOMA: las vegas. do it right and make one last run at this thing before it's too late.
MICKY: you'll pay me to train in vegas?
MIKE TOMA: change of scenery's good, get outta lowell.

MICKY: what about my brothah? 
BOB ARUM: with all due respect, he's too much trouble. you owe it to yourself to come to vegas.

ALICE: what did mike toma want? 
MICKY: looking out window,
DISTANT): he wants to train me in vegas.
DICKY: you can't trust that guy, micky, you don't know 'im. did he say anythin' about me? did he say i could come?
MICKY: no, he didn't mention you.
ALICE: who's gonna look out for ya in vegas, micky? they're all crooks out there. what would you do without dicky? or the family?
MICKY: yeah i know. that's what i told 'im.

DICKY: take care, mick, we'll talk tommorrah. 
DICKY: hey, champ! daddy's home!
LITTLE DICKY: did uncle micky win?
DICKY: not this time, dicky, try and gimme a sock in the nose--
ALICE: we'll get you anothah fight, micky.
MICKY: nah, i don't think i wanna do this no more.
ALICE: what?
DICKY: what're you talkin' about?
DICKY: espn screwed us, they owe us. we'll get anothah fight. just get healed up, micky, you're okay -
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 36.

ALICE: listen to your bruthah, honey, they owe us big time. maybe they could even do dicky's comeback fight too. 
GEORGE: christ, alice, he's been through the wringah -
ALICE: what're you talkin' about?

MICKY: what,-- what is it? 
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 37.

CHARLENE: i saw your shadow. and i heard you talk two seconds ago! 
CHARLENE: why don't you open the door and tell me to my face why you didn't call me yestahday?
CHARLENE: - why'd you stand me up last night?
MICKY: i was gonna call, i started to call, but i couldn't call.
CHARLENE: 'cuz you lost the fight?
MICKY: maybe, yeah, 'cuz i lost the fight.
MICKY: how'd you know my house anyway?
CHARLENE: i asked my brothah,-- your, ahhh, your thing is comin' off.
CHARLENE: no, the othah thing. it's a mess.
CHARLENE: ya got any tape?

CHARLENE: did the jewish black guy do this to you? 
MICKY: i didn't get to fight the jewish black guy.
CHARLENE: you didn't go head-body-head.
MICKY: he got the flu, the guy who took his place had 16 pounds on me, i nevah shoulda fought him.
CHARLENE: so why'd you fight him?
MICKY: nobody woulda got paid. everybody said i could beat 'im.
CHARLENE: who's everybody?
MICKY: my mothah and my brothah.
CHARLENE: so are you gonna take me to dinnah and movie tonight or what?

MICKY: wow, you look great. you got a nice house. 
CHARLENE: thanks. it's an apahtment building.
MICKY: oh.
CHARLENE: there's five of 'em in there, one-a my old roommates lives in one.
MICKY: old roommates from where?
CHARLENE: college, but a lot a good it did me, i'm workin' in a bah.
MICKY: you seem to enjoy it. you're very populah down there -
CHARLENE: uh yuh. popular. i need to get the outta that place. if i don't drink while i'm workin' i'd kill myself -
MICKY: what college?
CHARLENE: u.r.i. full boat.
MICKY: scholarship? for what?
CHARLENE: i was a high jumpah.
CHARLENE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 40.

MICKY: a high jumpah?! you gotta be kiddin' me. 
CHARLENE: you, i cleahed 5-10, i was new england champ, but so what, i nevah graduated. i pahtied too much.
MICKY: you?!

CHARLENE: what the we doin' in richie rich lexington? you come to this theatah a lot? 
MICKY: oh yuh, it's a good movie theatah.
CHARLENE: like what?
MICKY: bell-ah epa-cue.
CHARLENE: i think belle epic is how ya say it and i nevah heard of it. is it only playin' up here in lexington?
MICKY: oh yuh. and i heard it's a good movie.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 41.

CHARLENE: from who? 
MICKY: guy at work -

CHARLENE: that's what you wanted to see? there wasn't even any sex. what lowell guy on a road crew saw that movie in lexington and recommended it?? 
MICKY: where's the keys, i musta lost 'em in the theatah, i'm a dummy [walks

MICKY: i don't have a girlfriend. i came here because i don't wanna show my face in lowell. 
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 42.
43 CONTINUED:  43: charlene stares at him. he doesn't look at her.
CHARLENE: - what do you have to be ashamed of?
MICKY: i told everyone i was gonna win that fight and get back on track. i told kasie we'd get a biggah place so she could move in.
CHARLENE: you said you never shoulda fought that guy, but your mothah and your brothah wanted ya to do it.
MICKY: what's the difference, i'm alone in the ring anyway.
CHARLENE: you think your family's lookin' out for ya?
MICKY: you can't say that about my family.
CHARLENE: what else could i say after what you told me? look at your face, look at you.

ALICE: - bullshit, lou, i'm not gonna stop callin' til ya make it right and give us a fight that's fair! my boy coulda got killed last time. . .like what? ...what else?... ok, what is it? mm, mm. now you're talkin', that sounds very interesting, i'll get back to you. [hangs up] we gotta a great opportunity, we gotta find micky. 
PORK: nobody seen him for like a week.
ALICE: it used to be dicky was the one we couldn't find, now it's both of 'em?
TAR: i think micky's with that girl from the bah.
ALICE: what girl?
RED DOG: george was all eagah for them to get togethah.
BEAVER: i heard she's into threeways.
SHERRI: with othah girls.
PORK: yeah like one of them mtv girls -

TAR: she acts all superiah 'cuz she went to college. 
ALICE: just find micky and tell him we have business to discuss.

ALICE: - i've heard a lot about you. 
CHARLENE: really? i heard a lot about you, too.
ALICE: what's that supposed to mean?
CHARLENE: the same thing you meant.
MICKY: why don't we sit down and hear what's goin' on businesswise?

ALICE: i got ya anothah fight, mick, just like i said i would. lou gold and espn made it right. 
DICKY: just like i told ya! against joey belinc in six weeks at foxwoods! kid's like 10-8. he's nuthin'.
ALICE: nods, still smiling
PROUD): 17.5,
DICKY: 17.5, i thought you said 25, anyway that's still good money, mick.
MICKY: oh yuh. that's good, dick, i'm just, ya know, trying to figure out what's best for me--
ALICE: like what?
DICKY: what!?
ALICE: i don't know why you're not more excited, mick. i thought ya'd be more excited. that's good money. it's a good fight. i got tough with lou gold, micky, i told him he owes us.
MICKY: yeah, i know, ma. it's just,-- i don't want things goin' the way they been goin'.
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 46.

DICKY: why, how they been goin'? you're the one in the ring, micky, yeah that last one was unfair, but we ain't gonna repeat that, so it's up to you in the ring. 
MICKY: i know, but i don't want things to go like they been goin' here.
ALICE AND DICKY: where?
MICKY: here, this, us, lowell. the routine.
ALICE: we're workin' very hard for you, micky, i don't know what more you want.
DICKY: what's his problem?
CHARLENE: i don't know, maybe you not showin' up on time to train. maybe micky havin' to come find you in a crack

ALICE: crack house?! 
CHARLENE: --when you're sposed to go to the airport.
ALICE: i'm sorry, i don't understand who you ah or why you're talkin' -
CHARLENE: my name is charlene, you just met me, i'm datin' micky. should we do it again? hi, my name is charlene.
CHARLENE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 46a.

DICKY: what do you know about anythin'! 
MICKY: you just met her -
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 47.

ALICE: you just met her! 
DICKY: he don't know who she is!
MICKY: we're togethah.
CHARLENE: we're together, don't insult me and don't insult micky.
ALICE: you gonna listen to some mtv girl who works in a bah. what does she know about boxin'?
CHARLENE: mtv girl? i might not know -- much about boxin' - but goin' to vegas an' gettin' paid yeah round -- sounds much bettah to me -- than what you got 'im doin' heah.
ALICE: - ah you gonna let 'er talk like that to your muthah?
PORK: c'mon, micky!
MICKY: i told you we're together! this is my girlfriend, i want her here.
ALICE: i have done everything [pauses] i could [pauses] to help you. and for this -- mtv girl --
CHARLENE: stop callin' me a mtv girl, whatever the that means.
SISTERS: wild. [charlene makes a face]
WNNTTNTTFN 1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 48.

DICKY: and me. 
MICKY: she don't mean no disrespect. i had a chance to get paid to train year round, that's all she's talkin' about. i think everyone can appreciate that. dicky stares taking this in, wheels turning.
DICKY: of course! of course, micky, i coulda had that! i know what you're talkin' about. you think i'm stupid?
ALICE: he knows, we know --
DICKY: ma, please, let me say this
DICKY: i had opportunities like you're gonna maybe have. i had a girl i wanted to be home with.[sad for a moment] you should have that. no one's sayin' you shouldn't have that. but i can't have you goin' to vegas, we gotta stick together, micky, please. i can get ya money to train yeah 'round, if that's what ya want. i'll handle it.

DICKY: understand? 
PRAN: everyone give you 200 dollah?
DICKY: not everyone, just 10 a you.
BOOBOO: ten lucky ones.
PRAN: you rip us off!
DICKY: no no no no. i'm givin' you an

CHAN: you give me $200! 
DICKY: you get that from ten othah people you offah the opportunity to.
PRAN: you think cambodian people stupid.
BOOBOO: white people do this! to othah white people! it's what makes the world go 'round.
DICKY: i love cambodian people!

HBO PRODUCER: before you fought sugar ray -- 
DICKY: oh, yeah, all the money i coulda made if we just did it right, they threw me in too early. we didn't know, my mothah didn't know, sugar ray was too much, too soon. i needed to build slow. if i had micky's discipline, with my talent, forget about it. my wife debbie was the prettiest girl in lowell, and my daughtah kasie, i mean kerry, i want kerry to be proud a me. [lights pipe]
KAREN: why you let them film you smokin'?
BONNIE: hey's crazy!
HBO PRODUCER: i told you it's about crack addiction. showing what can happen, what it really is, so kids can see it for real.
BOOBOO: i can tell ya about the way it works in the brain--
BOOBOO: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 50a.

DICKY: when it entahs ya blood, ya get a peaceful energetic feeling ovah ya body, a kinda happiness - 
DICKY: -all the mistakes and the regrets of the past melt away, you feel so much lightah like when you were young and everything's in front of you. then it fades and you gotta get high again.
DICKY: i gotta find money for micky.

CHARLENE: why aren't you at work? is espn paying you to train? 
MICKY: dicky's handlin' it.
CHARLENE: dicky? alice would be better than dicky.
MICKY: would you jump for chrissakes?

KASIE: maybe it's too hard for her. maybe there's not enough cushions. 
MICKY: it's only 5'1", she did 5'8" as a champ, right charlene? 5'8"?
MICKY AND KASIE: yes!
CHARLENE: those pillows barely did the job, pardon my french, kasie.
MICKY: hey, we gotta get you home kasie, i gotta business dinnah with nana.

BUSINESSMAN: oh 
DICKY: through cheap megaphone
SLURRING): get outta the cah put ya hands on the roof!
BUSINESSMAN: please, i never did this before, i have two kids, a wife and i support my mother and my aunt.
DICKY: empty ya pockets, put everything on the roof, id, wallet, cash. your wife know you're here, huh?
BUSINESSMAN: no, what? are you - are you a cop?
DICKY: don't turn around! empty ya pockets!
DICKY: walk to the sidewalk, we have to take the vehicle. [takes cash, mumbles to karen] take half, get us some rocks.
BUSINESSMAN: how will i get home?
BUSINESSMAN: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 54.

ALICE: what do ya think, mick? looks good, right? 
MICKY: kisses his mother hello,
SITS DOWN): oh, yeah, ma, it looks great.
ALICE: he'll be here.
GEORGE: nods, kisses charlene
HELLO): yuh. hey, charlene didja quit the bah?
ALICE: didn't she just staht workin' there?
CHARLENE: she did. but she's wants to quit to go for teachah certification.
ALICE: i thought she was plannin' to live offa micky.

MICKY: c'mon, c'mon, this is 'sposed to be about the fight, let's just talk about the fight -- 
MICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 54a.

ALICE: what?! i was just makin' a joke for chrissakes. i'm sorry, charlene. 
CHARLENE: it's ok, i know you been tryin' to live offa micky for years.
MICKY: can we talk business?
MICKEY O'KEEFE: is there gonna be a press conference?
MICKEY O'KEEFE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 55.

BOUNCER: puts his hand up, shakes 
HIS HEAD): whoa, spucky teeth, i thought you were smokin' rocks, now you're gargling with 'em?
DICKY: you're 'bout to lose your breath.
BOUNCER: i'm about to lose my what?

MICKEY O'KEEFE: we were lookin' at tape today on belinc and i think if micky cuts off the ring in most rounds -- 
GUY IN DINER: dicky! it's dicky ecklund!
ALICE: ohmygahd! dicky!

CHARLENE: whoa. 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: don't, micky! i don't want ya gettin' hurt before the fight!

MICKY: just put him in the wagon. 
ALICE: they didn't do anything! get off my boys!
CHARLENE: mickyyyy! nooooo!
CHARLENE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 56a.

CHARLENE: leave him alone! [swings at cops] back the up! 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: guys, come on, back up.
CHARLENE: - micky, your hands! your hands!
COP: separate cells, don't let' em work up some defense story.

DICKY: we gotta talk, it was self-defense, right, say it was self defense, ya come outside, ya seen 'em beatin' on me, i didn't do nuthin' -- 
MICKY: you didn't do nuthin? look at my hand ya selfish prick.

DICKY: i was doin' it for you! 
MICKY: what were you doin' for me?
MICKY: this? do me a favah, don't do nuthin' for me.
DICKY: what ah ya gonna do without me?

DICKY: - i can't believe they let micky go. what about me? 
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 59.

HBO PRODUCER: what'd you expect, dick? you violated your parole. 
DICKY: what'd i do? they're aftah me. i'm dicky ecklund. i'm gonna have to plead out, right, get like three yeahs. could hbo help talk to 'em? what's gonna happen to my movie? i'll be out in a yeah or so, maybe less with good behaviah. we can finish it then,

HBO PRODUCER: your part will just end with you bein' arrested. 
DICKY: what about my comeback? i didn't do nuthin'. who's gonna take care a little dicky and, what about tommy?

CHARLENE: who is it? 
CHARLENE: i don't wanna see you, micky.

MICKY: i'm quittin', charlene, ok? i'm done fightin' i don't need it no more. 
CHARLENE: that's stupid.
MICKY: what?! why?
CHARLENE: because it's sad you let them take it away from you, with all their stupid
MICKY: - what else could i do, charlene?
CHARLENE: there's a lot you could do, micky. ya fathah's gotta guy he wants ya to meet. you just don't think you can do it without dicky -

MICKY: hey! 
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 60a.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: looks bettah. 
MICKY: it's good, gettin' there.
MICKEY O'KEEFE: why don't ya come down to the gym if ya want? ya fat look atcha.
MICKY: now i gotta worry about this movie tonight on hbo, everybody lookin' at me like i did somethin' wrong, ain't my fault he's on tv.
MICKEY O'KEEFE: it's bettah for ya if ya don't see it, micky, it's just gonna make ya feel bad. [turns to everyone] what are you lookin' at? he ain't gonna be on tv, it's his crazy brothah.

ALICE: everybody's talkin' about the movie, dicky, it sounds. 
DICKY: i know. they're lettin' everybody on the first two tiers watch it tonight. c'mon, hit daddy with a kunckle sandwich. bang-bang. right in the mouth. c'mon, a knuckle sandwich!
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 61aa.

DICKY: - my teef, my teef, dicky, you knocked out my teef! 
ALICE: they're sayin' it makes you an' the city look bad. what'd they make ya do?
DICKY: it wasn't supposed to work out this way. say we did it for the kids, ma.
ALICE: what kids, dicky?
DICKY: about drugs, and all that. is micky gonna watch it? you ask 'im why he don't come to see me? all i do in here is think about comin' back and workin' with micky, that's what keeps me goin'. i want a second chance to do it right for him and win a title. will ya tell him that for me?

LAURIE: i want her to see it! let her see who her uncle is! who you ah! 
MICKY: who i am? what are you talkin' about? turn it off, laurie, turn it off.

CORRECTIONS OFFICER 2: dicky!? what're you doin' here? 
( CONTTNTTFD': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 65.

DICKY: i gotta go home, harry. i gotta tell dicky it's gonna be okay, he don't gotta cry. 
CORRECTIONS OFFICER 2: steps out, puts a hand on
DICKY'S SHOULDER): get back upstairs before i write ya up.
DICKY: - he don't gotta cry no more.
CORRECTIONS OFFICER 2: i don't know what you're talking about, dicky, but you can't be here. you gotta go back up.

ALICE: wiping away her tears 
DIALING PHONE): no, sweetheaht, go back upstairs, you can't watch this. [into phone] micky, can you believe what they're doin' to us?

MICKEY O'KEEFE: nobody keeps tryin' like this kid, i swear to someone up there's watchin' over him, he's far from done. he'll take five punches to land one, that's how he fights, that's who he is. micky this is sal lonano. 
MICKY: you own a cab company, you're a good businessman, right?
SAL LONANO: i already made some calls. spoke to bobby tags and he says we can get a small fight, somethin' local to staht back with.
MICKY O'KEEFE: get ya confidence back.
SAL LONANO: right, go from there. [claps his hands together in an idiosyncratic

MICKEY O'KEEFE: - micky, i know ya dad wants this guy to manage ya, and i'll train ya on one condition. 
CHARLENE: no crazy-time nonsense.
CHARLENE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 68.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: no dicky, no alice. if they come back, i'm gone, mick. i can't deal with the bullshit, no offense georgie. 
GEORGE: none taken, i'm the one who's gonna get his cut off anyway.

ALICE: you traitor 
GEORGE: those pans hurt, you crazy i hadda help micky!
ALICE: with that scumbag lonano?! now i gotta save micky!

CHARLENE: holy your mothah's here with your sistahs. 
MICKY: don't answah the door.
CHARLENE: i'm not hidin' from your crazy family, micky!

CHARLENE: hi. 
ALICE: well, well, well, look at this.
CHARLENE: look at what?
ALICE: you can't hide from us, micky.
CHARLENE: he's not hiding.
ALICE: i wasn't talkin' to you, i was talkin' to my son. what're you doin' micky?
MICKY: i'm not hidin' from nobody -
ALICE: ya not helpin' yaself with ya fathah's scumbag friend, and ya can't turn ya back on dicky, all he evah wanted was for you to be world champ.
CHARLENE: micky's a grown man, he can make his own decisions.
ALICE: keep ya mouth shut. i'm his muthah. you need dicky, no one trains you like him, ya can't do it without

MICKY: why ya always lookin' out for him, ma? wes? why's it always dicky, dicky, dicky - 
ALICE: i'm lookin' out for you. my boys are everything to me. i had nine children, i loved all a you the same.
CHARLENE: you got a funny way a showin' it --
MICKY: yeah, a funny way, ma, dicky's a great trainah, i love him to death, but do ya evah think all the othah damage he's done?
CHARLENE: lettin' him get beat up, get his hand broken.
ALICE: are you crazy, micky's my baby! micky grabs her before she gets to charlene.
MICKY: don't ever lay a hand on charlene.
TAR: skank.
PORK: she's a bah skank!
CHARLENE: don't call me skank, i'll rip that hair right outta ya head!
MICKY: hey! hey! for the love a christ!
(CNNTTNTTFF ': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 71.

MICKY: i know you know what i'm doin'. i'm sure alice, everybody else, told you, i wanted to tell you to your face, myself. i got new management, i'm workin' with mickey o'keefe, and it's going good. 
DICKY: yeah, sure, they got ya fighin' alfonso sanchez.
MICKY: on hbo.
DICKY: yeah, hbo's all invested in the mexican, micky, wake up, they don't care if you get killed. toma did it. he's usin' ya like a steppin'- stone for sanchez.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 73.

MICKY: of course, how could i stand a chance without the great dicky ecklund in my corner? you didn't care if i got killed with mungin, now all of a sudden, you're worried sanchez is gonna hurt me, why? cuz you're stuck here and you can't be center of attention no more. 
DICKY: i seen that mexican fight, micky! he hits very hard! 15 knockouts! undefeated! are you crazy? that lonano went right for it!
MICKY: i wasted my 20s in bad fights set by you and alice! i finally gotta good thing goin', shut up and be happy for me!
DICKY: what's ya plan, mick? how ya gonna fight sanchez?
MICKY: i ain't here to talk about that!
DICKY: oh yeah, you are.
MICKY: watch the fight, you'll see the plan.
DICKY: they won't let us watch the fight cuz it's 'violent'! they let us watch the stupid documentary on crack but not my own brothah fightin'! [people look at them]. are ya scared? are ya embarraassed cuz ya don't even have a plan? just tell me.
MICKY: ya gonna on it no mattah what i say!
': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 73a.

DICKY: i won't on it. come on, just tell me. 
MICKY: go toe to toe; ovahhand right in the middle rounds. he's weak against the overhand right.
DICKY: who came up with that? fatty o'keefe?
DICKY: ya gotta run against this guy!

DICKY: take 'im to the body, micky! get inside. switch stances like ya workin' his right, hit 'im on the left. be careful, don't switch outside. 
MICKY: you're not me. you can't be me. you had a hard enough time being you when you had your chance. i'll fight sanchez the way i fight.
DICKY: i'm talkin' about the way you fight, you you know i'm right!

CHARLENE: come on micky! stop dickin' around! 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: breathe, mick, breathe. catch this sunovabitch with an ovah hand right, ya hear me? he won't see it comin'.
MICKY: he hits like bricks. when he misses it hurts.

DICKY: no, ma, it's okay, it's okay, he's doin' what i told' im. he's doin' it! intercut as necessary: 
ALICE: oh
DICKY: what happened?!
ALICE: knocked down with an uppah cut changin' stances outside!
DICKY: i told 'im inside, c'mon, micky!

REFEREEE MITCH HALPERN: you alright? 
MICKY: eyes wide, blood
DRIPPING): yuh.
DRIPPING): the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 77.

SAL LONANO: why you running around so much?! 
MICKEY O'KEEFE: shut the up, sal!
SAL LONANO: you're blowin' it!
REFEREEE MITCH HALPERN: ya gotta show me somethin' soon, mick, or i'm gonna stop it.
REFEREEE MITCH HALPERN: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 78.

MICKEY O'KEEFE: he's good! he's good! 
CHARLENE: looks up at micky from
RINGSIDE): they're gonna stop the fight!
CHARLENE: then let's go, baby! let's go! get ya frickin' punches off!
MICKEY O'KEEFE: i don't know what's happenin' out there, maybe you wanna tell me, cuz we're losin' all six rounds. is that what ya want? you want me to stop it? i'm gonna stop this fight, micky. i sweah to christ, i'll stop it. i don't know what ya doin' but ya bettah do it soon.

SAL LONANO: micky, mike toma just told me something very interesting. 
SAL LONANO: remember alice told ya mike toma was usin' ya like a steppin stone for sanchez and i said she was fulla turns out she was right. toma said sanchez had a title shot if he won tonight.
MICKEY O'KEEFE: holy christ, that's beautiful.
CHARLENE: why? why is the beautiful?
SAL LONANO: now it's micky's shot. shea neary in london for the title.

ALICE: oh dicky, thank gahd, everythin's gonna be ok again. 
DICKY: easy, ma, my back's killin' me.
ALICE: thank you're out! charlene and that lonano charactah are robbin' 'im blind, sal's sayin' ain't no money for spahhin' pahtnahs!
DICKY: i'll make it right with micky, i'll apologize, it'll all be okay.
ALICE: looks at dicky like he's
CRAZY): what are you talkin' about? you're dicky ecklund. you got nuthin' to apologize for.

DICKY: quackah! 
MICKY: -- dicky donuts lookit ya! they let ya keep the new teeth!
DICKY: hey, why ain't micky spahhin'!? georgie, what're you doin' outta the house?
GEORGE: dicky, meet my friend sal lonano.
DICKY: hey. ra ray!
DICKY: i wanna make an amend to everyone here, i know i done a lot of stupid things, and i wanna say i'm sorry, and that's ovah.
DICKY: i'm very grateful to be back in this gym with you all. i gotta lotta time to make up for, and i wanna make the best of it.

DICKY: you deserve the best, micky, you have a chance to go all the way and i'm ready to be there for ya. 
1: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 83.
112 CONTINUED:  112: micky goes into the locker room.

DICKY: i can't tell ya how good it is to be back. 
MICKY: you look good, your eyes are clear.
DICKY: i look good, right? alice said lock up mighta been the best thing to happen to me. i got clean. i got clear up here .
MICKY: that's beautiful, there's somethin' we gotta talk about.
DICKY: hold on, i wanted to say' i been waitin' for this day, micky, i been waitin' the whole time i was away. it kept me goin', it kept me alive, the idea of us workin' togethah again.
MICKY: i made a promise to them that i wouldn't work with you again.
(CNNTTNTTFF': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 83a.

DICKY: ever? 
MICKY: i had to. after everything that happened. i'm sorry.
DICKY: the whole time i was away --
MICKY: i'm glad you're back, i'm glad you're doing good, i don't know what else to say.
': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 84.

ALICE: what happened? 
DICKY: he says i can't work with him.
ALICE: that's not right. [dicky starts to leave] he never woulda won sanchez without me!
MICKEY O'KEEFE: that's take that back!
DICKY: don't talk to my mother my mother like that.
ALICE: why don't you ask micky?
MICKEY O'KEEFE: they gotta go. if we're gonna train.
CHARLENE: they have to go, micky.
ALICE: why don't you ask micky if he woulda won sanchez without dicky? ask him.
MICKY: i wouldn'ta won sanchez without dicky.
CHARLENE: how can you say that to o'keefe?
MICKY: because it's true. i went in with our plan and it wasn't working, i switched to what i learned with dicky.
(CNNTTNTT' N: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 85aa.

MICKY: i wouldn'ta won it without you, either, o'keefe, you know that. 
CHARLENE: you got the focus and confidence from o'keefe and sal and your father and me!
ALICE: you were lucky to win that fight, dicky saved him!
CHARLENE: we saved him! dickya junkbag!
CHARLENE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 85a.

DICKY: you, charlene, i'm 8 months sober. 
CHARLENE: i'm sure you'll need somethin' for your back now that you're out.
DICKY: o'keefe's in the same boat i am, one day at a time, why's it all right for him to be here, but not me? i'm blood.
MICKY: i'm the one fighting, not you, not you, and not you. i know what i need.
CHARLENE: and you need dicky?
MICKY: i want dicky back. and i want you, charlene, and i want o'keefe, and my family.
CHARLENE: you can't do that to us.
MICKY: you sound like them now.
CHARLENE: maybe you're just like them and that's where you belong.
ALICE: everything happens for a reason, this could be for the best, honey.
ALICE: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 86.
114 CONTINUED:  114: alice's eyes glow.
RAY RAMALHO: dicky ecklund, the pride a lowell!
DICKY: i was trainin' in jail, so i'm ready.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 86a.

ALICE: alice, take him home. [little alice leaves with little dicky]. what're you doin', micky? what's the matter with you! 
MICKY: can this be my fight, for once, alice, huh, just once, maybe just this one time, not for dicky? i know you think he's comin' back, he's 40 years old and doesn't have a tooth in his head that's his own--
DICKY: i can go ten more rounds, let's go-
ALICE: let your brother talk.
DICKY: i'm shea neary, let's go, i'm shea neary, how ya gonna work me?
MICKY: shut up!
DICKY: shea neary --
MICKY: shut up!
DICKY: i'm the one who has this fight, this is my chance for a title, and i won't get another one after this. am i being selfish? am i saying micky, micky, micky? i'm sorry, i thought i was fighting for a championship.
ALICE: i'm sorry, i'm sorry. i didn't know.

GEORGE: trying to keep up with 
DICKY): come on back--
DICKY: no, i gotta take care a something.
GEORGE: micky wants you, i want you.
DICKY: do ya, georgie?
(CONTTNTTFD': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 87a.

GEORGE: we gotta do this for micky, come on. you're my son, too, 
DICKY: you're my poppa, george.
DICKY: i gotta take care a something.
GEORGE: i know what that means, don't do it, come back.

BOOBOO, WOLFIE, KAREN: dicky's back! hey, dicky! 
DICKY: charlene, it's dicky.
CHARLENE: get off my porch, you piece of
CHARLENE: you asshole!

DICKY: i know you can't stand me. 
CHARLENE: really? what makes ya say that?
DICKY: i got no use for you eithah, but my bruthah loves ya and ya can't walk away 'cause a me. he don't deserve that. if you want me to quit, i'll quit.
CHARLENE: you're full a
(CNNTTNTT D': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 91.

DICKY: sweah to i'll quit if it makes you go back. micky's got a chance to do somethin' i nevah did - 
CHARLENE: oh, the sugah ray leonahd fight was my chance, i was great, i fought sugah ray leonahd---
DICKY: you, charlene. i came here to make things right -
CHARLENE: ok, let's make things right, numbah one: ya didn't knock down sugah ray leonahd, he tripped.
DICKY: i was in the ring with 'im, chalene, don't you think i know what happened? but i went ten rounds with sugar ray leonard, what the have you evah done? is your life so great?
DICKY: your eyes are red, you're hung ovah, don't tell me you're not. ya life
CHARLENE: maybe, the part without micky maybe i never did anything special like you, but i love micky and i want him to have his chance.
DICKY: then leave me alone. he needs me, you heard him, and i know he needs you, so let's spare him the from either one of us.
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 92.

MICKY: - what the are you doin' here? 
DICKY: we worked it out fah you. ask her. it's all together.
MICKY: good. get o'keefe back, too.
DICKY: micky nods, heads toward charlene.
DICKY: - hey, mick, you think i knocked down sugah ray leonahd?
MICKY: you went ten rounds, and he never hurt you. you were my hero.
DICKY: walking away, back
TURNED): i was...
(CNNTTNTTFF ': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 93.

MICKY: do you want a ride home? 
DICKY: shakes his head, limps
AWAY): nah, i'm good. i'm good.

DICKY: i should be the one standin' there next to him, i'm his trainah, his brothah and my mothah-- 
ALICE: been there from the staht --
CHARLENE: me and o'keefe got him through

MICKY: hey. nobody goes on stage. just me and the manager, that's how it's done by the professionals. i don't wanna hear anothah word. 
JOHN HYLAND: - shea's been sleepin' on a concrete floor in an empty apahtment, livin' by 'imself away from 'is family.
JOHN HYLAND: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 94.

MICKY: nah, i ain't gonna sleep on no floor. i like my bed an' my girlfriend too much - 
MICKY: hey, ma, dad, come on up here!
MICKY: my muthah used to manage both of us, me and dicky both. neithah of us would be here if it weren't for her, right?
DICKY: no mick, she's our muthah -
ALICE: smiles at all the cameras.. .her one well-
REHEARSED LINE): i been managin' both of 'em my whole life, honey.
SHEA NEARY: why the hell's ya mothah up here, this ain't no place for old ladies.
SHEA NEARY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 95.

DICKY: where's his song, sal? you gotta be good for somethin'. i dunno why you gotta be in the cornah anyways - 
SAL LONANO: make sure you don't do somethin' stupid.
DICKY: why dontchya try singin', sal, maybe you can do that -
MICKY: "now i don't know where i'm goin' but i sure know where i been."
': the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 96.

MICKY: walks to dicky in his 
CORNER): - you see that? i'm gonna kick his ass.
DICKY: good. go right at him, staht early for once!

CHARLENE: give him the stool! where's the stool! 
DICKY: shut up! get outta here!
CHARLENE: he needs to sit!
DICKY: jump with me!

DICKY: leans close into his brother before he goes, 
TALKING FAST): go aftah 'im so he don't think ya hurt, mick, stay off the ropes!

DICKY: go aftah 'im! get off the ropes! 
DICKY: the fighter 8/28/09 green draft 100.

MICKY: dickyeeee! 
DICKY: ohmygahd, micky, you're the world champion! you're champion a the whole world!
ALICE: both my boys are champions, micky you're a champion! i love you!

