speaker1: dearly belov`ed, we are gathered here today to get through this thing called life. electric word life, it means forever and that's a mighty long time. but i'm here to tell you that there's something else -- the afterworld. then huge cu of eyes opening, gazing into mirror, hand applying makeup, sudden blackness, then-- 
speaker1: that's right...a world of never-ending happiness, you can always see the sun -- day or night.

speaker1: so when you call up that shrink in beverly hills, you know the one -- doctor everything'll be alright-- instead of asking him how much of your mind is left, ask him how much of your time, `cause in this life, things are much harder than in the afterworld, in this life, you're on your own. now, pulsating color -- flashes of hot, white light... 
speaker1: and if de-elevator tries to bring you down, go crazy, punch a higher floor. and the beat provocative now, relentless, building with fierce intent to--
speaker2: the music continues as we ...

speaker1: what? 
speaker2: i have an appointment with the manager.
speaker1: no you don't -- he doesn't see anybody. suddenly a fight breaks out at the inside money window. chick spins instantly, slams the door -- but vanity jams her boot into the narrow space. the door crashes against her instep, she winces in pain --but chick doesn't notice. he's already upon the offenders, heaving them against the wall. vanity streaks inside, blazes up the stairway, ducks behind a group of
speaker3: chick turns instantly -- the door is closed -- vanity, gone. his eyes dart up the stairway -- nothing. he shrugs, drags the two guys off.
speaker4: what are you retarded or something?! why don't you look where you're going? she's 18 years old, blonde and pretty in a cute, innocent way. a daisy mae-type whose emotions form so quickly, she has trouble sorting them out. right now she's mad as -- she thinks--
speaker2: sorry ... where's the office?

speaker1: do you think you can just come in here and take over? 
speaker2: i said i'm sorry -- what do you want me to do? where's the office?
speaker1: no one's in! vanity stops dead in her tracks, does a slow burn. she walks back to jill--
speaker2: okay, so you got me back, fine. listen, i'm from out of town. i have to see the manager, it's important. i'm a real good singer and dancer.
speaker1: do you have any experience?
speaker2: yeah...definitely.
speaker1: follow me. and she turns on her heels, makes her way through the club, moving into the vicinity of the stage. vanity follows her reluctantly, casts a look to the band. she spots prince for the first time -- stops instantly... his effect on her is instantaneous. passion surges through her like a tidal wave. his hair, face, eyes -- it all conspires to make her weak. it's like meeting someone for the first time, but seeing so much of yourself in them, that their lips, eyes, mouth -- you're certain you have touched, and the desire to be with them becomes so strong that the very act of touching will release you in a way you never thought possible... prince brines "let's get crazy" to a rousing, blistering end. suddenly the stage is plunged into darkness. the crowd goes wild! ...vanity snaps out of it. jill is tugging at her arm, a puzzled look on her face--
speaker1: here, fill this out -- i'll have him call you.
speaker2: i don't have a phone. when will he be back?
speaker1: well...you can try tomorrow.
speaker2: you can count on it. vanity hands the card back to her -- jill reads the name, address -- looks up puzzled--
speaker1: vanity??
speaker3: as morris and the time pass prince on their way to the stage--
speaker4: why don't you stay awhile, see how it's done. the band members bust up -- but prince ignores them, then--
speaker5: ladies and gentlemen -- please welcome the time.
speaker6: sudden applause and cries. vanity and jill turn directly into the path of prince, descending the steps of the stage. vanity gasps, locks eyes with him. jill seems to jump out of her skin -- it's obvious she has a crush on him something awful--
speaker1: hi ya, prince -- i liked that song, it's real fun. she fidgets uncontrollably, vanity's card buring a hole into her hand. prince glances at the card, then stares at vanity, the ripeness of her look paralyzing. he tears his eyes away, puts on his sunglesses, looks toward the stage.

speaker1: i really liked your song too... but he's gone. her eyes scan the room frantically -- catches a glimpse of him leaving. she takes a sudden step, then stops, paralyzed with indecision. jill regards ger coldly. morris meanwhile is beside himself. some gorgeous, dark-haired babe, eyes wide as saucers was starlng at him from the bar. prince has left, and this girl is his. he motions to jerome, and they direct their act in her direction. jill gazes at vanity, fidgets intensely, suspicious and resentful of her. she glances up and notices morris, look. she seizes upon an idea, forces a friendly smile, taps vanity on the shoulder-- 
speaker2: hey ... she points to the stage. vanity looks at morris, and he goes crazy, entertaining her with his own special blend of showmanship. the crowd loves it! vanity is held a moment, but her thouchts are elsewhere. she finally comes to a decision, pulls away, cuts through the club.

speaker1: hey wait! but prince is too far away, the traffic too coneested for him to hear. he whips down the street, disappears around the corner. vanity continues running, then slows, dejection overcoming her in waves. she looks around -- kids are staring at her, passing jokes. embarrassed, she moves to the front door but chick is there, his eyes upon her cold, impassionate. exhausted and slighlty tearlul, she cuts across the street, heads back to her apartment. 
speaker2: prince whips down the street, cuts his motor, coasts up the drive. he comes to a stop against a wooden gate. his house is a nondescript, one-family structure with a wide front porch. he lives in a neat and tidy, homogeneous, lower middle- class neighborhood whose occupants are hard-working type fiercely protective of their privacy. he climbs the steps to the porch, opens the front door... ...his mothers scream is like ice in his veins. fear trickles into the hollows of his body like cold water, his pain commands him to move, but the impulse short circuits somewhere at the waist, leaving his legs twitching uncontrollably. then another scream from his mother, and his father's voice now, loud and furious--
speaker3: listen to me! you come home when i say come home! you've got no business in the streets! whack! his mother screams -- prince bursts into the room. int. prince's living room -- night prince's mother is at the far side of the living room crying uncontrollable. she's in her early 40's, a dark-haired, faded beauty, with large, wild, anxious eyes. there's a detectable scent of liquor in the air, and her slurred speech pins her as the source. his father is in his late 40's, a squat, but solidly built black man, with a cherubic face, and graceful expressive hands. he's upon her now, whacking! at her horribly, trying to get to her face--
speaker3: you do what i say, do you hear me?! you've got to keep this place clean! you here, no place else!
speaker4: you're crazy!

speaker1: motherfucker!!! the father lunges, whacks! her across the face. she topples to the floor, a lamp crashes to the ground. prince cuts through the room, lunges desperately in front of him-- 
speaker2: please, dad...she's heard you. she's had enough! his mother drags herself up along the wall--
speaker1: he's trying to kill me! he's crazy! look what he's doing to me!
speaker2: dad, please ... she's-- whack! prince's head snaps back, his feet lift from the floor, his body crashes in a heap by the door... stunned silence. prince, flat on his back, fights vertigo with everything he's got. his mother lets out a yelp, rushes into the bedroom, slams the door.
speaker3: get up...you ain't hurt. prince opens his mouth, blood gushes from a gash in his tongue. he hoists himself up slowly, using the wall for support. he moves into the kitchen, disappears down the basement steps.

speaker1: what are you doing here? she's a bundle of loose, embarrassing ends -- the cigarette, hat, juice-- 
speaker2: what...what are you doing here? he feels caught out -- scans the board earnestly for vanity's info -- tries to think of something to say--
speaker1: huh ... it's kind of dead in here. where is everybody?
speaker2: in bed i guess... oh, ... guess what, i bought a dog.
speaker1: that's nice... ah, i guess i'll come back at a better time. you think tonight the the place'll be jumping?
speaker2: well, i'll be here -- i always like what you do. he smiles, moves to the door -- jill connects with a thought--
speaker2: wait! i've got something for you.
speaker1: what? a subpoena?
speaker2: no... she rumages through her bag, pulls out a cassette--
speaker2: it's a song lisa and wendy wrote.
speaker1: why didn't they give it to me themselves?
speaker2: well, i liked it and wanted to listen to it. they told me to give it to you when i was done. he puts his sunglasses on, hesitates, then takes it from her gingerly. he regards it for a long time--
speaker1: you really liked it, huh?
speaker3: one, two, three, kick! one, two, three, kick! four, five...oh, lord. cut! cut! the music stops, the girls come to a halt -- morris regards them evenly--
speaker3: you ladies don't seem to realize how valuable my time is. you're going to make my boys look bad.
speaker4: why don't you let us come up with our own steps?
speaker3: we tried that... ... remember?
speaker3: now you're in the best possible position you can be in, so what' s the matter -- your shoes on too tight or something? let's have some action, let's have some wiggling, i want some perfection. whawhak! the music starts up -- the girls start dancing. morris looks woefully to jerome---
speaker3: i think i'm going to need a drink, a strong drink. let's get the out of here.

speaker1: this just ain't happening. the are okay, but we need something more exciting- 
speaker2: you're right. we could be doing much better. any ideas?
speaker1: that powder fine babe we saw last night.
speaker2: oooh, yeee! -- why don't we find out who she is? morris snaps an address in front of his face--
speaker1: i already know that. jill gave me everything last night.
speaker2: then what are we waiting for?
speaker1: no, no -- that ain't classy enough. i want the to come to me -- i'm the only star in this town. suddenly a beautiful babe lunges into the sidewalk from the alley--
speaker3: morris day, who do you think you are?! i waited up all night for you. i'm so tired of you doing that to me. you think you're so hot? you're nothing special. this is the third time you pulled that who the do you think i am?!
speaker1: jerome! jerome puts the girl in a headlock, drags her into the alley--
speaker3: leave me alone you ape! -- what are you doing to me?! morris!! he flings her into the dumpster, slams the lid with a crash. morris pats his brow--
speaker1: lo-rd..! such nastiness. hee, hee -- let's break. they streak across the street, double- time it to the caddy. a cop sweeps by, gives them a curious look. morris puts on a dignified air, then stops, stupified--
speaker1: jerome, this car -- it's...it's lacking something.
speaker2: hmm... i don't know...
speaker1: i got it! the hubcaps. we need something sweeter.
speaker2: i think i know what it needs.
speaker1: yeah ... i know what these need.
speaker1: the girl has expensive tastes.
speaker2: as fine as she is...she doesn't have to know how to sing.
speaker1: i know that's right. hey -- watch it now. the shoeshine boy looks up balefully -- morris smiles, then grits his teeth--
speaker1: i want you to stay out of the set tonight. i want you to work the floor.
speaker2: what for?
speaker1: i want to know when that sweet thing shows up. you stay by the door, you see her, you come get me, cool?
speaker2: cool. i come get you -- let you know the girl's there.
speaker1: well, not if i'm with my other babes. that wouldn't be cool. i don't want to break their hearts, and you know how i feel abouy that. so we ought to have like, a signal.
speaker2: a password.
speaker1: okay. what's the password?
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: got what?
speaker2: the password.
speaker1: the password is what?
speaker2: exactly.
speaker1: the password is exactly?
speaker2: no, it's--
speaker1: -- hold it now. slow down. the babe walks in and you see her.
speaker2: i see her.
speaker1: you come get me.
speaker2: i come get you.
speaker1: and i'll probably have a couple little sexies on the stand-by, and we don't want to upset them, do we? so you just glide by me and say...what?
speaker2: okay.
speaker1: the password is okay?
speaker2: far as i'm concerned.
speaker1: say the password.
speaker2: what.
speaker1: say the password, sperm breath!
speaker2: the password is what.
speaker1: that's what i'm asking you!
speaker2: it's the password!
speaker1: the password is it?
speaker2: ahhhhh! the password is what!
speaker1: it! you just said so!
speaker2: the password isn't it! the password is--
speaker1: -- what?
speaker2: got it!
speaker1: 1 got it?
speaker2: right.
speaker1: it or right?
speaker2: what?? the shoeshine boy looks up slowly -- regards them with a soulfull look--
speaker4: either of you do heavy drugs?

speaker1: the sidewalks are alive with bustling shoppers. vanity walks aimlessly past store windows, staring longingly at the expensive items. 
speaker2: as she stops suddenly and stares transfixed. a young woman, startingly similiar to her in looks and coloring, tries on a beautiful bridal gown as a seamstress adjusts the hem. the entire scene is warm and endearing. vanity is struck by lt's beauty and seems to sigh. the young woman looks up suddenly, catches vanity's gaze, and gives her an affectionate smile. vanity smiles back avidly, then--
speaker3: give me that.
speaker3: there ... on your boot. she looks down -- it's the expensive gold chain. she hesitates, then hands it to him. he drops it into his pocket, walks away--
speaker4: hey, wait!
speaker4: give it back to mel he continues to walk briskly -- she starts pulling on his coat--
speaker3: you can have it back later.
speaker4: i want it back now, okay?
speaker3: who gave it to you?
speaker4: a person
speaker3: female or male?
speaker4: huh ...
speaker3: you're lying. i can tell just by your reaction that you're lying. he moves away briskly -- vanity stands her ground, amused--
speaker3: so you gave it to me -- it's not yours anymore. he stops short -- something has caught his eye. she's curious, comes up behind him, then--
speaker4: you see something you like? he puts on his sunglasses. a guitar stands prominently in the window.
speaker3: let's go for a ride. he flips her the gold chain' -- turns hastily. she weighs it in her hand, studies the guitar--
speaker4: it's pretty.
speaker5: prince and vanity on his motorcycle blazing down the highway, twisting through traffic. the city is behind them, receding into the distance. ext. countryside -- dusk they pull off an access road, drop down a small embankment, ride down a narrow, dirt road.
speaker6: the pull to a stop. a lake stretches before them. vanity gets off the bike, walks around exploring, casting curious glances at prince. he stands by the water, idly tossing stones--
speaker4: my psychic told rne i was going to be famous.
speaker3: how much did that cost you?
speaker4: fifty bucks. it was a good investment. he doesn't respond -- she suddenly feels shy--
speaker4: no seriously -- my psychic did tell me. i was in a play once.
speaker3: oh, yeah -- what did you play?
speaker4: isadora duncan... she stretches her arms like a butterfly, does a little step--
speaker4: that means i can sing and dance. want to help me?
speaker3: nope.
speaker4: pardon me?
speaker3: nope.
speaker3: want to know why?
speaker4: nope.
speaker3: because you wouldn't pass the initiation.
speaker4: what initiation?
speaker3: well, for starters ycu have to purify yourself in the waters of lake minnetonka.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: you have to purify yourself in lake minnetonka. her brow furrows, she looks out across the lake. he's calmly throwing stones. recognizing a challenge when she sees one, she formulates a plan, faces him seductively, shoots him an open look. he stops suddenly, locks eyes with her, feels his knees go weak. her hold on him is unmistakable. she pulls off her blouse in one fluid motion, tugs off her boots, drops her pants to the ground. she's exquisite, takes a step toward him. passion rings in his veins ... suddenly she turns on her heels, moves purposefully toward the water. he's shocked, realizes that she's about to go in--
speaker3: hey, wait a minute! thats-- but she silences him savagely--
speaker4: we made a deal! and before he can react she scampers along a log, dives beneath the surface. he can't believe it -- her spirit really impresses him. she breaks the surface coughing and sputtering, hops and jumps to the shore--
speaker3: hold it.
speaker4: what?
speaker3: that ain't lake minnetonka. he tries to keep a straight face, jumps on his motorcvcle, starts it up. his words take a moment to sink in, then--
speaker4: you bastard. i don't believe it. how could you do that to me?! she gathers up her clothes, tries desperately to put them on. she slips and falls -- prince can't help laughing-

speaker1: you -- i'll kill you. she starts throwing stones. he laughs, blasts up the path-- 
speaker1: you prick! are you sick?! is this some kind of ritual -- getting your kicks! how many girls have you done this to?
speaker2: he blazes up the embankment, sails through the air, drops expertly onto the road. he fishtails to a slick stop. vanity is by the lake, flailing about, throwing things, trying to get into her boots--
speaker1: bastard! he laughs heartily, wants to kid her, rides down the road as if he's leaving. having his fun, he slows, turns to go back ... ...his smile dissolves instantly. vanity is in the middleof the road, flagging down a small pickup truck. she hops in, slams the door. the truck peels out, bears down upon him. he gesticulates his arms wildly -- wants to explain--
speaker3: hey ... but the truck streaks past -- vanity's look is cold, triumphant.
speaker4: honey, you still chasing after that fool? kim is 21 years and gorgeous, with dark eyes, a smooth sculpted face, and taut shapely legs. she is street-educated and doesn't need encouraging to speak her mind. katy is also in her-early 20's, a tall, alluring oriental, with an attractive, intelligent face--
speaker5: i'm doing what i'm doing.
speaker6: he doesn't even look at you. that's the last thing you want from a man.
speaker5: you just don't know him like i do.
speaker4: honey... look, listen, and then feel. if you do them in any other order, you're headed for trouble. matt and bobby stroll up--
speaker7: hey, jill -- where's our drinks?
speaker5: they're coming -- just wait.
speaker5: what you want isn't on the menu.
speaker7: jill, in ten years they'll be on the table. she swats him with her order pad -- bobby ducks, taunts her--
speaker7: c'mon, c'mon ... she goes to swing, matt moves in, squeezes her breasts--
speaker8: boopoo!!
speaker4: get out of here, you jerks!
speaker8: sweetheart ... do you have a real hot place where i could stick my nose?
speaker4: sure -- try a microwave.

speaker1: those guys are deep. 
speaker2: yeah -- deeply retarded.

speaker1: i'm paying ... see? keep the change. chick advances on her -- her eyes widen with fear-- 
speaker2: the manager wants to see you.
speaker1: really..? oh, great...like to see him too. she breaths a sigh of relief. jerome watches as chick escorts vanity to the upper level. he stays short distance behind.
speaker2: he'll be right with you. chick walks away. jerome makes a move toward her, but pulls himself up short - - billy sparks has approached her--
speaker3: hi, i'm billy sparks, i manage this place. vanity turns around -- her eyes widen with surprise-- he's 38 years old, 5'3" tall and weighs about 180 pounds. he's dressed in a baby-blue running suit.and white tennis shoes that come to a point. a dark- skinned, smooth-faced black man, he's wearing small, white sunglasses and a base-ball cap perched on his head. fred flintstone in harlem. a hip, fast- talking jive who uses profanity like a light saber. chubby, cuddly, cherubic billy sparks. he'd sell his mother if he thought he could make a buck. they size one another up in. about three seconds--
speaker1: hi -- i really like your club.
speaker4: really...
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker4: nine, sweets.
speaker1: oh, that's a really nice watch. very pretty. billy lights a cigarette, offers her one, she accepts--
speaker1: you look like a guy i used to go out with -- he was a lot older, but i like older men.
speaker4: really, what a coincidence.
speaker1: i just came off a broadway play. my grandmother got sick.
speaker4: does she live here?
speaker1: no, in new york ... but, huh, i have a sister here, lives in saint ... huh

speaker1: ...paul. 
speaker2: amazing.
speaker1: ye-es. what do you want to do? you don't want to be a waitress do you?
speaker2: no ... no...actually i was thinking more in the way of the stage.
speaker1: of course... how about dinner?
speaker2: theatre?
speaker1: dinner, then the theatre, my sweets.
speaker2: oh, huh...
speaker3: hi ya, billy.
speaker1: good evening, jerome.
speaker2: jerome -- i was looking all over for you!
speaker1: you know each other?
speaker2: of course.
speaker3: yes, we've met. i have something to show you.
speaker2: great. see you later, billy.
speaker2: you rescued me.
speaker3: ye-es.

speaker1: hi ya, prince. i heard through the grapevine you had a new tune written by two great girls. by chance did you hear it? he stares at her -- if looks could kill wendy would be dead-- 
speaker2: i knew it -- he didn't listen to it. he probably dropped it under his bike and rolled over it. prince grunts, turns away -- wendy is amazed--
speaker1: wow! okay...you think about this. i'm going to be real honest with you. you're really being full of
speaker2: forget about it, wendy. let's get out of here-- but wendy, agitated, silences her with a fierce gesture--
speaker1: every time we give you a song, you say you're going to use it, but you never do. you always think that we're doing something behind your back. you're just being paranoid as usual.
speaker2: wendy...
speaker1: shut up, lisa, please! you should know by now that we wouldn't hurt vou. we're not out to put a dark cloud over your head. it's just to make you feel good, prince -- that's what it's all about. you've been this way with us before, remember?
speaker3: the nominees for the best actress are--
speaker2: -- it, wendy -- let's break! wendy is shaking, tears spring to her eyes--
speaker1: do you know you can really, really hurt people? doesn't that mean anything to you? doesn't that make you feel like
speaker2: c'mon ...
speaker1: i'm tired of this ... i'm really tired... they leave the room, wendy slams the door behind her. prince casts a look to bobby, mark, matt--
speaker3: you tired, too?
speaker4: got wendy's periods reversed. about every 28 days, she starts acting nice. lasts about a weekend. thud. the joke hangs suspended like a ball and chain. bobby gets up, the others follow him to the door--
speaker5: what difference does it make, prince. we're still a group, right?

speaker1: headcase. telling you...'effed up headcase. 
speaker2: people with talent usually are. matt dons his surgeon's mask -- mark rolls his eyes--
speaker1: of course, there are a number of headcases without great talent too.

speaker1: honey -- don't you ever try and breastfeed no baby now. 
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: never mind ...
speaker3: what.
speaker1: what?
speaker3: right. what.
speaker1: what??
speaker3: you got it. be snaps his head to the side -- morris looks, sees vanity sitting at a table.
speaker1: ye-es what time is it?
speaker2: tea time.
speaker1: so, right.
speaker4: as prince sits by himself in front of the mirror, staring at a cassette on the counter. we recognize it immediately as the tape jill gave him earlier, containing lisa's and wendy's music. he picks it up, snaps it into a ghetto blaster. music, without lyrics, fills the room. he adjusts the dials, sits back and listens a moment. suddenly the door opens--
speaker5: prince, five minutes. be snaps off the music, drops the cassette into his pocket, cuts out the room.
speaker6: he comes to the stage-area. his band.members are standing about anxiously, watching the final moments of the modern aires' performance. he cuts behind the curtain, peers at the crowd... ...his eyes fall on vanity -- his face brightens instantly. just then jerome and morris approach her. prince shakes his head knowingly, offers a wry smile, then joins his band.
speaker3: vanity, i'd like you to meet morris e. day.
speaker1: hold it now -- just leave the 'e' alone.
speaker3: vanity...this is morris day
speaker1: the pleasure's all mine. she offers her hand -- he takes it decorously--
speaker3: if you'd excuse me. morris signals him -- whispers into his ear--
speaker1: too ... have a waitress bring.a bottle of their best champacne. he seats himself, fastens her with a sexy, half-lidded look--
speaker1: your lips would make a lollipop too happy.
speaker7: you think so, huh?
speaker1: ye-es. kim appears with a bottle of champacne in ice--
speaker8: who's paying for this morris?
speaker1: i think you know that. jerome! jerome appears, opens the bottle with a flair, performs a classy taste test. morris pulls out some cash, pays him, who snatches the money, leaves--
speaker1: huh, keep the change-- he whispers to jerome--
speaker1: get my change, will ya?
speaker1: oh, lord...either somebody put something in my drink, or you are the finest i've seen in ages.
speaker7: excuse me, what did you say?
speaker1: huh...you look nice tonight.
speaker1: it's rare that i out my cards on the table when it comes to meeting younq ladies, but ...
speaker7: is that a fact? he folds his legs dramatically, his stacy adams reflecting the light--
speaker1: just as sure as my stacy adams are shiny.
speaker9: ladies and gentlemen -- please welcome prince! the club erupts in cries! prince hits the stage, launches into "g-spot," a fast, high-spirited funk tune that gets the crowd hopping. vanity watches as prince whips the crowd into a frenzy. morris listens with a complacent grin on his face, his eyes searching out various members of the time who are scattered through-out the club. when he connects with one of them he makes a series of absurd faces which sends them into hysterics. for prince is playing music that the time is noted for, and, as far as morris is concerned, performs better. not everyone in the club is dancing, or paying attention, and this does not escape his notice. suddenly "g-spot" comes to a rousing end. the crowd cheers wildly. prince moves quickly to the piano and launches into "electric intercourse," a love ballad which, as it progresses, becomes a personal statement for vanity and prince himself. she listens intently, her eyes fastened on him. the words have a profound effect on her -- and the audience. without being consciously aware of it, they're moving closer to the stage, searching for their personal fix. prince surrenders himself to the music totally, releasing from himself all that is hurtful -- releasing the sincerity and truthfulness that escapes him in his daily life. we are entering realm where life and music are inextricably bound, and the impact on the performer and listener is profound. he's directing his music toward her, and she receives it gratefully, almost anxiously. it fills a void in her, hewn by a life of meaningless promises. he searches her face with his magnificent eyes, and ends the song with a heartrending cry which connects with the souls of all present. everyone is paying attention now. the stage is plunged into darkness. the crowd goes crazy! vanity applauds vigorously, wipes the tears from her eyes. morris, who was more affected by the performance than he'd care to admit, doesn't like what he sees and searches for a winning line--
speaker1: he doesn't like girls.
speaker7: i know -- he likes women. but morris can barely suppress a smile, and settles himself comfortably into his chair -- for he knows what vanity has lost...at least this round--
speaker1: well ... he don't do too good with them either. she flashes him a quizzical look -- he simply smiles.
speaker10: what's this intercourse,
speaker11: hey; man -- don't worry about it.
speaker10: i'm warning you... but prince ignores him, cuts into the dressing room--
speaker12: surprise! oohs! and aahs! by the entire group. jill hesitates, then kisses prince's cheek compulsively. he's surprised, touched--
speaker11: hey -- wait till we're married, now. she fidgets, her face blushes red.
speaker13: oh, my -- look at this! everyone looks -- jill grins like the cheshire cat--
speaker12: notice anything?
speaker11: what?
speaker13: it looks like you! she thrusts the dog into his arms -- the band laughs uproariously. jill is beaming--
speaker12: his hair ... prince gazes into the mirror -- and sure enough the dog's hair has been groomed to match his. he can't help smiling--
speaker11: ...
speaker12: i wanted to cheer you up.
speaker11: thanks.
speaker14: i'm hungry -- where's the food?! he grabs the dog, 'a la the werewolf, starts chomping on it's neck. the group busts up, starts fooling around. prince glances into the mirror -- vanity is there. he whirls around to the door -- nothing. a huge smile sweeps his face instead. the band continues fooling around, and prince joins in with a relish.
speaker7: hey...
speaker11: we have to go to your place.
speaker7: what for?
speaker11: i want to show you something.
speaker7: no...no, we can't.
speaker11: why -- is there someone there?
speaker7: why do you always think there's somebody else? he averts his eyes -- kick starts his bike--
speaker11: let's go.
speaker7: yeah -- but we're not going to my place. he remains silent, snaps the bike into gear, blasts down the ally into the street.
speaker15: vanity's mesmerized. they ride down a narrow sidewalk, cut through a garden, and emerge from the back of a garage.
speaker7: that was a grand entrance. where am i? he silences her with a look, moves quickly across the grass, comes to a window. he stands on a pipe, looks in--

speaker1: so -- friends of yours? 
speaker2: yeah -- the freak show. he walks off. she jumps off the pipe, follows.
speaker3: as they emerge around the corner. prince squats by a basement window, adjusts an old coal chute, then slides down it--
speaker1: hey...
speaker2: c'mon. she hesitates a moment, then slides down too.

speaker1: if you think you scared me, you didn't. 
speaker2: oh, yeah ... he puts his index finger directly in front of her nose, moves it back and forth hypnotically. she follows it earnestly with her eyes. suddenly, he pulls his hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird. they both smile, lock eyes. passion rings in their veins... the woman's voice begins to moan deeply, pleasurably--
speaker1: who's the lucky girl? sounds like she was having a good time.
speaker2: she's crying -- it's backwards. it makes me sad when i hear it. it sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it?
speaker1: so what did you do to her? do you always treat your women like that?
speaker2: i don't have anybody right now.

speaker1: you look pretty... she touches his chest delicately, fluffs up his hair-- 
speaker1: king kong?
speaker2: stop. she hesitates -- but he reaches out tentatively, touches her breast--
speaker1: no. but their mutual desire is too strong. their lips seek one another out timidly, almost deferentially...then fervently.

speaker1: please! a bottle crashes to the floor. then silence... ...deep silence like snow in the room... vanity's racked with fear. she sits up slowly, her eyes searching out prince -- he's sleeping... suddenly more footsteps, a door slams and the father's cry-- 
speaker2: no!! whack! something heavy crashes to the floor... vanity rises from the bed in a panic! she smoothes down her dress, searches for her other shoe. she shoots another look to prince, but he sleeps peacefully. casting a glance upstairs, she climbs throuch the casement window, disappears into the night. prince is resting on his side, his eyes opened.
speaker3: damn, baby, hold it! hold it!! oh, -- you broke my nose! she sees it's morris -- she's beside herself with fear and rage--
speaker4: you what the are you doing here?

speaker1: shh! shh! shh! oh, lord help me outta here. hee, hee -- i know you wouldn't want to spend the whole night with ol' pencil 
speaker2: your nose alright?
speaker1: my nose is fine, i'm just wondering if i my shoes up... c'mon ... they cut across the yard, head to the street. the caddy is parked at the curb. jerome leans against it, reading a newspaper--
speaker2: hi, jerome. wow! nice hubcaps. he grins proudly from ear to ear -- the caddy sports new chrome wire wheels--
speaker3: you like them, huh?
speaker2: beautiful.
speaker1: jerome...you think these can be fixed? his shoes are badly scuffed, the leather torn across the top--
speaker3: i think they're dead, man.
speaker2: i'm sorry.
speaker1: -- it's so rough out here. just then a patrol car cruises by. the cop regards them suspiciously. morris and jerome snap to attention--
speaker1: you lock the door, baby? let's go!
speaker4: the caddy blazes by in the night. the city lights glimmer spectacularly in the distance.

speaker1: jerome! jerome snaps a look in the rear-view -- morris gives him a deft nod. jerome opens the glove compartment, searches through the cassette tapes. he finds the one he wants, snaps it into the player. restaurant ambiance fills the car... note: the restaurant ambiance will grow in volume, and will be followed by exaggerated dinner music, punctuated with strings and delicate cymbals. the music plays throughout this scene -- and morris times his words to the ebb and flow of the piece to insure the proper dramatic effect. 
speaker2: cocktails before dinner?
speaker1: yes -- two piã±a coladas.
speaker3: uh...make mine a virgin.
speaker2: okay... jerome braces his knees against the wheel, pours two premixed coladas into plastic glasses--
speaker2: will you be having a virgin as well?
speaker1: ye-es! for dessert!! whawhak! jerome stifles a laugh, pours a rum miniature into morris' glass. he hands them back--
speaker1: thank you. here you are, dear. they savor their drinks -- morris' fervor grows by leaps and bounds--
speaker1: jerome, uh, get your pad and pencil, i think it's gonna be kinda right. if my judge of character is correct, it's going to be about loving tonight. stop me when i get to seventeen. jerome places a pad by his side, pencil at the ready. he settles the caddy to a cruising 55 -- morris looks deeply into vanity's eyes--
speaker1: excuse me, baby...i bet you didn't know i had a piece of this restaurant, did you? may i taste that? he takes vanity's drink, slurps a little, burps--
speaker1: huh, excuse me, that's kind of weak...here, try mine.

speaker1: good 
speaker2: y'know...they say that saliva is an aphrodisiac. you look so lovely tonight.
speaker1: why...thank you.
speaker2: probably you'd look better under exotic...red...liqhts. i wish you could see my home. it's...it's so exciting. he leans close to her, speaks in a soft, voice--
speaker2: in my bedroom, i have a brass waterbed ...
speaker1: oooh!
speaker2: i have an italian cook, gino izogochograchi, or something like that.
speaker2: it's funny...your eyes -- when you stare at me like that, it causes my stomach to qui- quiver. oh, lord...
speaker2: do you like diamonds?
speaker1: uh, huh.
speaker2: yeah ...?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: i know it's rather masculine, but -- try this one on. he slides a large glass diamond on her finger--
speaker1: ohhh!
speaker2: my darling it fits.
speaker2: you must have strong hands, but -- they're so soft...like oils in my bubble bath. ...
speaker2: darling...?
speaker1: yeah...?
speaker2: i'm not usually so forward, but -- would you like to make love to me? i can make it so nice ... she giggles freely, looks at him with big eyes--
speaker2: do you know what is meant by the words, huh, i hate to use them, they're so harsh, so american...i mean, and yet on the other hand, they're exciting words. the words... ...chili sauce. oh, lord.
speaker2: you know, i haven't made love in so long, but with you i know it would be just like riding a bike. i'd remember everything i've ever learned. baby, if the kid can't make you come, nobody can.
speaker3: morris..!
speaker2: yeah...?
speaker3: seventeen. morris fixes vanity with his half- lidded, pouty-lip look--
speaker2: huh, what's it gonna to be baby?

speaker1: what?! 
speaker2: what?!
speaker3: over there -- that's where i live. jerome skids the car to a stop. they're directly in front of a slick, hi-rise apartment building--
speaker1: here...?
speaker3: yes.
speaker1: uh, what one is it?
speaker3: that one, right there, see?
speaker1: it's nice, huh?
speaker3: oh, it's great. real pretty. big open rooms, balconies, fireplace -- the works.
speaker1: jerome! jerome puts the caddy into gear, pulls off into the night-

speaker1: hey, wait! c'mon! okay -- where are you taking me? 
speaker2: home. you and me are a lot alike.- i like that. so, i'd like to help you out. i think i have something you may be interested, in.
speaker1: oh yeah -- what? jerome hands morris a cassette -- morris waves it in front of her nose--
speaker2: a little song and dance. that is, if you can sing and dance.
speaker1: prince is goinq to help me.

speaker1: needs a haircut. 
speaker2: hee, hee, uh, excuse me. no he won't. he's never done anything in his whole life for anybody but himself.
speaker3: guys better than you have promised me things before.
speaker2: i know that's right, but-- jerome hands him a card with an address on it. morris hands the card to her--
speaker2: -- not morris day. jerome pulls up in front of her motel.
speaker2: come by any time.
speaker2: jerome! jerome leans over, taps the glass -- the window glides down--
speaker2: one more thing ... jerome snaps the glove compartment, hands morris a neatly folded camisole.
speaker2: here's a little something for you. if you get cold when you wear it, call me. he snaps his fingers -- jerome pulls the caddy away with a screech.

speaker1: morris...? another two knocks, something like a confirmation. she smiles, cuts to the door, flings it open -- but prince is there. she's shocked, but recovers instantly-- 
speaker1: i had a feeling it was you -- i knew it! it's amazing -- i could tell it was you. his face remains placid as he puts on his sunglasses--
speaker2: how'd you get home?
speaker1: took a cab.
speaker2: oh yeah? where'd you get that?

speaker1: i adore camisoles. he nods dispassionately, walks into the room, gives the place the once over, then-- 
speaker2: let's ride.

speaker1: this is beautiful. it reminds me of where i grew up. my father used to ... he waits for an answer, it's not forthcoming-- 
speaker2: your father used to what...?
speaker1: nothing...it's just... you must like places like this. he goes to the stream, balances on several rocks, moves to the other side.
speaker1: so, have you reconsidered my proposal?
speaker2: what...?
speaker1: what we talked about last time.
speaker2: you can't be serious. she starts a little dance step, climaxes it with spins and twirls--
speaker1: oh, come on -- you know you really want to. you've been waiting for this opportunity ...all...your...life... he can't help laughing -- she freezes, looks at him coldly--
speaker2: i'm sorry -- excuse me.
speaker1: -- so why do you come around? you don't want to help me, not that you have to. you don't want to sleep with me, not that you have to do that either. so why am i here?
speaker1: there's a lot of things you don't know about me. you'd be surprised how many things i could do.
speaker1: take me home immediately! i want to go home. i can't stand this! i can't take this anymore! prince! prince moves through the trees smiling, studying nature--
speaker1: i don't need this! i was doing alright before i met you. you need a haircut! he comes to a tree, leans against it contentedly, studies the foliage. vanity paces back and forth frantically along the stream--
speaker1: i don't get this. prince! who do you think you are?! you don't care. you don't care about anything! i never wanted you to help me anyway! prince rests by the tree, observes two hikers walking down the path toward him-

speaker1: you think you're a good musician?! you're nothing! morris is better. i never wanted to make it with you anyway. 
speaker2: good morning.

speaker1: good morning, sir. 
speaker2: i'm sorry. i shouldn't have said those things. will you forgive me?
speaker3: yes. he takes the flower, slips it into his jacket, kisses her forehead.

speaker1: leaves scatter as the bike whips thru the wet path. 
speaker2: see you later?
speaker3: when?
speaker2: why?
speaker3: 'cause i have to do something first.
speaker2: what?
speaker3: a secret...
speaker2: tell me.
speaker3: no.
speaker2: okay, come by -- eight o'clock. he kicks the bike into gear -- she touches his jacket longingly--
speaker3: bye... he blasts off. she watches him a moment, her eyes glowing. she heads to her motel, then stops short -- a single carnation lies oon the sidewalk. she looks around quickly, almost expecting someone to claim it. but no one's around, so she picks it up, goes inside.
speaker4: as she comes to a halt outside her room, picking up carnations along the way. she opens her door, cuts inside.
speaker5: she goes into the bathroom, fills the sink with water, arranges the flowers within. she smiles radiantly -- they look beautiful. suddenly something seizes her thoughts. she opens her bureau drawer quickly, pulls out the yellow pages, leafs through it hurriedly, we read: parking, passport, paving...then pawnbrokers. she stops, runs her finger down the page, then hunts quickly through her drawer. her eyes dance mischievously when she pulls out her gold chain. she places it on her bureau, hurries to her clothes rack.
speaker6: miss v.? she looks around the corner -- a flower delivery man stands in the hallway, holding a bouquet of roses--
speaker3: yes...?
speaker6: delivery.
speaker3: come in ... he cuts inside, and is followed by another man, holding a bouquet of daisies--
speaker3: hey -- wait a minute. what's going on?
speaker6: downstairs.

speaker1: you're crazy! -- what are you doing? 
speaker2: come down -- come down.
speaker1: i can't -- i've got things to do.
speaker2: c'mon, ten minutes. i want to show you something- she shakes her head--
speaker1: i'm sorry, but thanks for the flowers. you're really crazy. she disappears from the window. they stand expectantly a long time. finally jerome looks at morris--
speaker3: well...what do you think? morris is staring intently at the window -- he purses his lips sensualy--
speaker2: chili sauce. just then vanity steps outside, looks stunning in her tight, black pants and boots. her eyes dance vivaciously, a red sash is tied around her waste. morris gives jerome his sexy, half- lidded, pouty-lip look--
speaker2: oh, lord...
speaker4: what's wrong? lisa points to prince. wendy immediately rips into the guitar solo of "g-spot." she stops suddenly--
speaker4: is that better? do you like that?
speaker5: where is everybody?
speaker6: you're late -- they left.
speaker5: so what are you doing here? lisa immediately launches into the opening bars of "let's get crazy"--
speaker6: but i'm here to tell you that there's something else -- our music--.
speaker5: can't you guys get off it? can't you just leave it alone? wendy meets his glare with one of her own...
speaker4: yeah -- we'll get off it. she turns, snaps off the linn machine angrily, plunging the club into silence.
speaker7: the time is jamming like mad, deep in the heart of "sex shooter." brenda and susan move furiously to the beat, trying their best to get it right. they are watched by ... ...morris, vanity and jerome standing off to the side. morris has a contented look on his face, even though his girls are up. vanity's eyes are wide with excitement
speaker2: as you can see, we need someone with your special qualities.
speaker8: you ain't got no business leaving here! all your sneaking around -- you're just a sinner! you're nothing but a low life sinner! the mother throws herself at him drunkenly, starts slapping, scratching at his face--
speaker9: shut up! you don't care about me! leave me alone! prince claws desperately at his father's back--
speaker8: don't i keep the heat on? isn't there food in the refrigerator?
speaker9: i don't like it here. you never talk to me! i'm always alone!
speaker5: dad, please!
speaker8: what's the matter with this house? isn't it nice and warm here?!
speaker9: you're crazy!
speaker8: shut up!
speaker10: asshole!
speaker8: shut up!
speaker9: motherfucker!! the father lunges, drags prince along the floor, whacks! the mother in the face. she topples in a heap to the bed. he's over her now, breathing fire, flailing about savagely--
speaker8: shut up! shut up! shut up!
speaker5: dad! he lunges, drop kicks his father with everything he's got! his father smashes backwards against the wall, slides to his buttocks on the floor. he sits there dully, exhausted...spent. prince crawls up along the side of the bed. his mother buries her head in the pillow, choking back sobs--
speaker9: i'm just trapped here... his father's eyes well with tears. he leans close to her, speaks softly--
speaker8: you always got a roof overhead...
speaker9: you don't let me have any fun... his father sighs wearily, pulls himself to his feet. he moves to the door--
speaker8: i could make you happy. just believe in me...
speaker9: you never...
speaker8: i would die for you. he leaves the room, closes the door behind him. prince stares at the door a moment, tears welling in his eyes. his mother is motionless, whimpering softly. a scent of liquor permeates the air. he moves toward her, reaches out tentatively... suddenly she jumps up, starts pacing franticaily--
speaker9: it's nice here. it's a nice house. nothing wrong. it's a good family. believe me, i know. nothing wrong here. your father is okay. he's a good man. you could learn somthing. she catches a glimpse of herself in the mirror, stops--
speaker9: my, my! don't you think i have a good figure? your father did. she sits in front of the mirror, studies her face, her eyes...her breasts--
speaker9: i was beautiful when your dad met me. i was out-a-sight!
speaker9: i looked just like a movie star. the minute he saw me singing, i knew just what he wanted. she fixes him with a conspiratorial look, whispers--
speaker9: he wanted to get into my panties. she makes funny, "jazzy" eyes at him, then stops suddenly, staring. his face, mouth, eyes...a sudden stirring in her loins. her lips part, she moistens them unconsciously... she turns from the mirror and stares at him -- his look connects with her groin. she rises suddenly, walks slowly toward the bed, sits facing him--
speaker9: you look so pretty. just like me, honey. you coulda been a girl. she outlines the mole on his cheek with a makeup pencil, then draws one on herself. she takes her earring off, and puts it on his ear. they are face to face -- identical--
speaker9: so pretty... she looks at him drunkenly. he tries to hold it in, but can't. a tear, hot and hard as a bullet flows down his cheek. she puts her index finger in front of his face, moves it back and forth hypnotically. suddenly she pulls her hand away, stretches it to the ceiling like an escaping bird. he swallows, tries to smile -- she leans close --
speaker9: i have to go now, see some friends. don't tell your father, okay?
speaker9: bye, skipper...bye.
speaker1: i missed you! missed you! missed you! she hugs him tight, showers him with kisses, topples them both to the bed. laughing, hugging, kissing -- fast and furious. suddenly she jumps up like a panther, fluffs her hair wildly in the mirror, fixes him with a wanton look.
speaker5: come here. where were you? she moistens her lips, walks lasciviously toward the bed, sits facing him. she laughs suddenly, pushes him back...and they're at each other again - - faces two inches apart; touching, whispering, kissing, hands searching -- shutting out the rocm, shutting out the world... she jumps up suddenly. she can't be contained! she practically levitates--
speaker1: i have a big surprise for you. she rushes to the coal chute, climbs halfway through. prince, puzzled, cracks up watching her and legs dangling. she drops back into the room, holding a large package. his eyes widen. she struts to the bed, lays it down majestically before him--
speaker1: da...da..!
speaker5: what is it?
speaker1: open it. he starts peeling the tape off, careful not to rip the paper. vanity's bursting with excitement though, and demolishes it in a flash! he laughs, opens the lid -- stares in shock--
speaker5: oh, no... oh, no! he pulls out a gleaming new guitar, and we immediately recognize it as the one they saw in the window. he's deliriously happy, and speechless--
speaker5: how'd you do it? she shouts with delight, attacks him again, pushing the guitar aside. fast, furious kisses and he responds in kind. they're twisted in a heap on the bed. after a moment they come up for air, stare at each other playfully. something flashes across his mind--
speaker5: here... her eyes widen. he takes off his mother's earring, fastens it to her ear. eyes dancing, she jumps up, studies it closely, in the mirror--
speaker1: i love it! she twists around, kneels beside him, showers him with bites and kisses.
speaker1: i'm going to join morris' group.
speaker5: what? she backs away from him, stands, strikes a defensive stance--
speaker1: i'm going to join morris' group. he lunges savagely before he knows it! his hand lashes out, smashes her in the face. she falls back, crashes into the mirror. she slips dully to the floor, tries desperately to brace herself on a chair-- he's horrified--
speaker5: i'm sorry! oh, baby, i'm sorry! are you alright?

speaker1: just...leave me alone. 
speaker2: please...it's just... i don't want you around this at all. i just don't want you in my life this way. you don't have to prove anything to me or anybody else. vanity...? don't i make you happy? don.t you like the way we are? do you know morris? do you know what he's about? he doesn't care about you.
speaker1: jealous..?! she rushes into the antechamber, climbs through the coal chute, disappears into the night.

speaker1: where's lisa and wendy? 
speaker2: they haven't shown up yet.
speaker1: they call? the guys shrug, look away. prince simmers a moment, straps on his guitar - - immediately gets ear-splitting feedback. he stomps on the floor pedals angrily. just then chick comes up to the stage--
speaker3: prince. billy sparks wants to see you.
speaker1: tell him i'm rehearsing.
speaker3: uh, uh -- now.
speaker4: what do you want?
speaker1: you wanted to see me?
speaker4: you having trouble?
speaker1: no.
speaker4: no?
speaker1: no ...
speaker4: where's lisa and wendy? he stops abruptly at the front door, studies prince for a long time. then he cuts outside. prince follows.
speaker5: rush hour traffic. billy sets the pace down the sidewalk -- prince keeps up--
speaker4: morris called me this morning. seems he's got himself a new group called vanity six. you know anything about them?
speaker1: no.
speaker4: he tells me they're great. thinks i'll be interested. that's cool, but now i've got a problem.
speaker1: what's that?
speaker4: i book three acts -- i can't afford four. if they're as good as morris says they are, one of you will have to go... suddenly a horn blares off screen. billy looks up -- a beautiful babe in a black bmw waves--
speaker4: go around the block!

speaker1: i like the modern aires. they have a good following -- they show up for practice -- and the kids like all their music. the bmw sweeps up to the curb. billy opens the door, slides in-- 
speaker1: 'nough said. get smart.
speaker2: the place is jumping! once again the time is deep in the guts of "sex shooter," but now there's a difference. the music is fiercer and crisper -- the beat tailored, more defined. morris and jerome stand off to the side sporting huge grins. they're avidly watching... ...vanity, susan, and brenda dancing up a fierce storm. vanity fronts the two girls and moves panther-like in front of the mirrors... she's a dynamo, her face drawn tightly, her movements crisp and precise. she urges the girls on, suggests and cajoles, strengthening their resolve. sweat lathers their bodies and forms rings on their danskins. the act is still very rough, but the potential for success can be felt. prince suddenly enters the hall. morris spots him immediately and halts the music. the girls dance on a moment, then stop perplexed. vanity catches prince's look, shakes her head in disbelief--
speaker3: i want to talk to you.
speaker4: not now, i'm busy.
speaker3: now. a titter goes through the band members - - vanity wipes her face, fixes him with a glare--
speaker4: i said i'm busy -- we'll talk later.
speaker3: uh, uh... he grabs her suddenly, pulls her to the door--
speaker4: leave me alone! i've got a show to do!
speaker4: you can't just come in here and take me away! we'll talk later!
speaker5: man -- why don't you just do the walk?

speaker1: why don't you kiss the one- eyed snake? the band lets out a condescending groan -- the tension rises 
speaker2: jellybean! jellybean, 6'4", 210 pounds, steps from behind the drums, moves up behind prince-

speaker1: let's go, jack. 
speaker2: you!

speaker1: leave me alone, get out of here! jellybean lurches, grabs prince in a heaidlock, lifts him off his his feet. 
speaker2: fucker!! he twists prince's head backwards, smashes his body to the ground--
speaker2: stay still, motherfucker!! but prince continues fighting him with everything he's got! jellybean is astonished--
speaker2: he twists prince's neck savagely, smashes! his legs to the floor again and again--
speaker2: stop!!
speaker1: jellybean, please...
speaker2: lift him.
speaker1: don't hurt him ... they pick him up, move him toward the door. he resists them slightly, his body lurching in fit and starts. suddenly he breaks free, faces them with his back to he door. but the band members surround him, their wills united, the obviousness of the situation apparent to all. he searches for vanity's eyes, but she can't face him and walks away. anger again surges in his veins. he cuts out the door, slams it behind him.

speaker1: ma...? she turns, he gasps out loud. her left eye is swollen shut-- 
speaker2: hi, ya, baby... her drunken breath washes over him -- his head spins--
speaker1: ma...what happened?
speaker2: can you give me some money? c'mon, just some money... she gropes for him drunkenly -- he suddenly realizes she doesn't know who he is--
speaker2: here...here...
speaker2: give me something for this...just a little. it'll be okay...
speaker1: c'mon...i'll take you home.

speaker1: okay, c'mon now -- break it up. let's go.. the crowd moves out. police radios cackle. three women stagger over, one of them grabbing his mother-- 
speaker2: c'mon, honey -- we're goin' in...
speaker2: you're a little young aren't you? get out of here. leave her alone.
speaker3: prince blasts down the street, sweeps into his drive, and jumps off his bike, practically smashing it into the gate. his eyes are burning with anger. he flies up the steps three at a time, cuts across the porch, bursts throuch the front door and--

speaker1: where the are you? he spins like a top, streaks down the hallway, throws open several doors violently-- 
speaker1: where are you?
speaker1: answer me you fucker!! he twists around frustrated; exhaustion, anger, and pain competing for the same space. suddenly he stops, listens intently a moment. we hear it now -- a piano. someone's playing a piano. prince throws a look at the basement door -- it's ajar.
speaker1: is that yours?
speaker2: 'course it's mine. who else's is it goin' to be? got all kinds of them. they're different too.
speaker1: i'd like to see them. you got them written down somewhere?
speaker2: no, man -- i don't write them down -- don't need to. that's the big difference between you and me.
speaker1: thought you weren't going to play no more. his father looks at him sullenly, then looks down, stares at the keys.
speaker1: i saw mom up the street. she looked pretty bad. any idea how she got that way? his father bites his his lip, rubs a hand over his face, stares at the keys.
speaker1: yeah... i got a girlfriend.
speaker2: you gonna get married?
speaker1: i don't know. his father shares a hurtful look with him, then stares darkly at the floor below--
speaker2: never get married.
speaker3: the club is throbbing. prince is onstage, stripped to the waist, sweat seeping from his pores in torrents. he's deep into the pit of "computer blue, " locked into a provocative, obscene graphic with wendy. she's on her knees in front of him, his crotch moving directly in front of her lips. she's made up fiercely, looks like prince himself. the total effect is unnerving -- prince is going down on himself. billy sparks stands by the bar pretty upset. jill stands slack-jawed. the kids have stopped dancing, drinking -- they staring at the display,.shaking their heads confused... the beat is savage. prince is in his own world, living his own private hell. suddenly the music crescendos, then winds down like a roller coaster sweeping everyone along. the beat changes radically. he turns his back to the audience and plays ... ...and we suddenly recognize the music as his father's -- the song he played on the piano the night before. but it's prince's now, stamped with his own signature. he's bent at the waist, his back to the audience, alone with his father's, and his, pain. the crowd fidgets...billy sparks fastens his eyes on prince angrily.
speaker4: what are we doing here, morris?
speaker5: what do you mean?
speaker4: i don't want to be here. i don't want to hurt anybody.
speaker5: it's not about hurting anybody. this is business. we can use the exposure. just then brenda and susan come up to the car excitedly. brenda is dressed in a 40's-style dress, susan wears a form- fitting leopard one. they both look gorgeous--
speaker6: hi -- you coming in? their excitement and nervousness is endearing. vanity's heart goes out to them. she forces a smile, climbs out unaided--
speaker4: your horns are showing, morris.
speaker5: yeah...but they're holding up my halo.
speaker3: prince is on-stage, deep into the closing moments of "computer blue." he paces back and forth frantically, still locked in his own private hell. the crowd's attention has wandered, however, and very few remain on the dance floor, finding it too much trouble to keep up with the changing shifts in the music. even his band members are edgy, casting quick looks to each other, wishing to get on with more compelling audience- pleasing sounds.

speaker1: fastens on her and brings "computer blue" to a rousing end. the crowd applauds, but it's more out of respect than eagerness. he doesn't seem to notice though, or care. he confers quickly with his group., then moves center-stage. the band members trade frustrated looks with each other -- it's obvious that they have some trouble with the next song... prince presses his lips to the mike, and the music starts. he begins singing "darling nicky"-- 
speaker1: i knew a girl named nicky, i guess you can say she was a fiend. i met her in a hotel lobby masturbating in magazines. she said, how'd you like to waste some time, and i could not resist when i saw little nicky grind.
speaker2: shoots a fierce look to prince, helps morris, jerome and the girls to their table. vanity is watching prince, a puzzled look on her face--
speaker3: hee, hee...little empty tonight, huh, billy. but i guess money isn't everything.
speaker4: oh no... that's cold...
speaker5: the duke of is in rare form tonight.
speaker1: is fastened on vanity and it's apparent to all. he launches into the next verse-

speaker1: she took me to her castle and i could not believe my eyes. she had so many devices everything that money could buy. she said, sign your name on the dotted line, the lights went out, and nicky started to grind. 
speaker2: flushes with embarrassment. billy and morris notice this and glare at prince.
speaker1: looks dead-center at them, and then to vanily--
speaker1: i woke up the next morning. nicky wasn't there. i looked all ov'r all i found was a phone number on the stairs. it said thank you for a funky time, call me up when ev'r you want to grind.
speaker2: stands suddenly, fighting back tears. she backs from the table quickly, knocks the chair over. morris tries to help her, but she sweeps past him, hurrying for the exit.
speaker3: as she comes down the stairs stumbling slightly, tears streaming down her face.
speaker4: hey ... but she pulls away, runs out the door, cuts across the street.

speaker1: brings the song to a blistering end. the stage is plunged into darkness. he strips off his guitar, cuts from the stage, ignoring the grave looks from his band members. 
speaker2: as prince twists aggressively past a handful of fans, rudely disregarding their attention. he cuts into the dressing room.

speaker1: what the fuck's wrong with you, prince?! 
speaker2: i don't have time for your bullshit, billy. what do you want?
speaker1: my stage is no place for your personal
speaker2: that's life, man.
speaker1: life my ass, this is a business, and you're not too far gone to see that. i've told you this before. you're not pulling them in like you used to. the only person who gives a about your music is yourself.
speaker2: off!
speaker1: just like your old man...
speaker1: yeah -- you got it. tell me i'm wrong. you're not blind. look around you. no one's digging you.
speaker1: look at your band. are they in here right now? they're out there 'cause they can't stand being in the same room with you. what a waste...like father, like son--
speaker2: lay off that!
speaker1: take your head out of your ass, prince, check it out -- unless you like the view up there. your music doesn't make sense to anyone but yourself. he closes the door behind him. prince stands dully a moment, then sits heavily in a chair. exhaustion suddenly overwhelms him. he rests his head in his hands, moments tick by... he shakes himself awake -- morris and jerome stand by the door--
speaker3: that was up what you did man. morris doesn't like it. and being a part of this - - i don't like it either.
speaker2: i don't care.
speaker4: hee, hee...huh, it's obvious you don't have what it takes to be on top.
speaker4: but to show you that i'm sympathetic to your problems - - here's a pass to our show tomorrow night. enjoy it. they leave. then morris sticks his head into the doorway--
speaker4: don't forget to bring a girlfriend. whawhak!
speaker5: commotion. cars are thick in front of the taste, a small nightclub located in the poorer part of the city. because of its location, the taste books different dance bands four nights a week and then hosts a variety night the remaining two. aspiring comedians, dancers and jugglers flock to variety night, desirous of trying their material in front of a live audience -- and hoping to catch the discering eye of a talent scout on the prowl. billy sparks pulls up to the curb, gets out with a beautiful woman and cuts inside.

speaker1: cuts from the dressing room, closes the door behind him. he joins jerome at the curtain, and they move down the back stairway to the club-- 
speaker1: i guess this is it.
speaker2: i guess so, m.d.
speaker1: i think i'm going to be sick. why does this have to be happening to me? has it crossed your mind that we're about to make the biggest mistake we've ever made?
speaker2: i don't think it's all that bad.
speaker1: that's why i do all the thinking.

speaker1: ladies and gentlemen, please welcome vanity six. 
speaker2: oh, god-- he sits quickly, followed by jerome -- they both put on sunglasses. a hush descends over the crowd. the curtain rises slowly...and brenda, susan and vanity are frozen in a provocative, vampy stance. their effect on the audience is galvanizing -- the crowd bursts into applause and whistles--
speaker2: what?? wearing lingerie and moving seductively to the beat, the girls launch into "sex shooter" with complete abandon. the music is slick and fierce, the girls and sure. wearing black bikini panties, black tails and boots, vanity dances center-stage and begins singing. she's mesmerizing, her look so alluring, so profound that the audience sits slack-jawed in amazement. the spotlight is hers and she soaks it in, radiating a sexiness that has the audience at her feet. the entire concept -- dress, dance, music and staging -- is overwhelming, with just the right degree of playfulness to allow the crowd easy passage into the fantasy world the girls create. brenda and susan play off her wonderfully, sharing secret looks with the crowd, balancing the wickedness of the act with an innocence that is enticing. they're working strongly as a unit now, the audience roaring their approval...
speaker2: and jerome are beside themselves with happiness. the pull off their shades immediately, sit back and glow in the audience's response.
speaker3: stands in the back, his eyes glued to vanity. her strength and sureness in front of the crowd is breathtaking. the audience loves her and he suddenly feels very alone -- as if another wall has gone up between them. he looks away a moment and spots... ...morris looking at him with a self- satisfied, triumphant grin on his face. prince looks away, moves out of his eyesight. "sex shooter" comes to an end. the stage is plunged into darkness. the crowd goes wild, leaps to their feet, begging for more. the girls, slighly over-whelmed by the response and flushing deep red, hold one another.tightly and take repeated bows.
speaker3: watches the girls bowing to thunderous applause. suddenly vanity looks at him and touches the earring she's wearing -- it's his mother's. his knees weaken instantly, and he locks eyes with her. the heat between them is unmistakable. she smiles vividly, gives him an endearing wave and steps back as the curtain closes. he's moving through the crowd before he knows it, trying to get to the backstage door. the crowd is thick, his path momentarily blocked. he spots billy sparks cutting across the floor and congratulating morris and jerome. prince turns from them, tries once again to make his way through the crowd.

speaker1: and the girls rush into the dressing room and jump up and down with excitement. they are beside themselves with happiness, kissing and hugging one another avidly. suddenly vanity pulls away, indicates she will be back and cuts out the room. 
speaker2: as she runs down the hallway to the backstage area, peers from behind the curtain, scanning the club earnestly.

speaker1: morris is squeezing you, kiddo. you better kick tomorrow night or else. he cuts outside, disappears into the crowd. prince stands there steaming, the wind knocked out of him, his joy a memory. he turns back to the line, but it has grown, the crowd now jammed up against the door. frustrated, he cuts outside. 
speaker2: as vanity watches prince leave. a profound sadness sweeps her face. suddenly susan is by her side, hugging and kissing her happily. brenda runs up, pouring champagne. morris, jerome and the time are at the end of the hallway and beckon her excitedly into the room. vanity forces a smile, goes down the hallway, casting another look at the exit door.

speaker1: did you hear these people applauding? they loved us -- they wanted to rip us apart, and this is just our first night. i can see it now, we're all going to be big stars. i can feel it. 
speaker2: ain't nobody bad like me. she kisses him spontaneously on the cheek--
speaker1: morris, you're a genius.
speaker2: ye-es... he fixes her with a look, takes a healthy look from his flask, then gives it too her. vanity throws her head back, drinks fully, the liquor coursing over her cheeks. he devours her with his eyes, opens the door to the caddy--
speaker2: let's go, bebe.
speaker1: huh, where's jerome?
speaker2: in his skin...hee, hee...

speaker1: is he coming? 
speaker2: i gave him the night off.
speaker1: why? he staggers back from the car, undulates his hips wantonly--
speaker2: whawhak! she busts up. just then a motorcycle can be heard off screen. they look around drunkenly, trying to discern its direction. suddenly prince blasts around the corner full out! he streaks by morris and kicks him flat on his into the garbage--
speaker2: oh, no -- oh, god...no! prince skids to a slick stop. vanity is transfixed. the entire episode took less than five seconds. he twists the throttle, blasts down upon her... she breaks in a panic! she runs clumsily down another alley, her coat flying. he whips after her like a madman. she flies around the corner -- a dead end! he fishtails to a slick stop--
speaker3: get on! there's no way out! suddenly she lets out an excited yelp, jumps on. he guns the bike, bursts up the alley. morris jumps into his path drunkenly, his arms extended--
speaker2: stop! stop! but prince blazes down upon him, sending him slipping and sliding to safety. he blasts around the bend--
speaker2: you long-haired faggot!
speaker4: they streak down the road, slow, then move down a small embankment. he stops the bike and gets off. she's in a foul mood, staggers around dully, her head pounding, her speech slurred--
speaker1: so here we are again. so this is it, huh? what do you want this time? he looks at her painfully, upset about her drunken state--
speaker1: what's your problem now?
speaker3: no problem. i just wanted to talk, alright? i just want us to be okay, to really get along. no big deal. she cackles, falls flat on her ass, hoists herself up--
speaker1: no big deal, huh... she pulls morris' flask from her jacket -- his eyes blacken--
speaker3: give me that.
speaker1: no, definitely not. who are you? you can't tell me what to do.
speaker3: please don't drink that. give it to me. she holds the flask to her lips defiantly, then goes to drink. he lashes out suddenly, smashes it from her grip. she screams wildly, slaps him hard across the face. he stands shocked a moment, his rage surging within him, smashing through every safety valve he's acquired in his life. he backhands her savagely across the jaw. she hits the ground like a rag doll. he looks at her curiously, bends over her - - she sucker-punches him with everything she's got! he screams in rage and grabs her hands as they flail about his face. he squeezes her fingers back while the tears stream down her cheeks and her mouth forms a silent "ow"! she bares her teeth angrily and he at her mouth, biting and kissing her in a fever pitch. she kicks at him violently, hot tears streaming down her cheeks. he jams his leg between hers, rubs it firmly against her bottom. she struggles helplessly against him as he covers her breasts, her stomach, her thighs with his lips. quick breaths escape from her -- her breathing begins to race... he snaps her in two, pulls them from between her legs. she spreads herself as he releases his pants. she squeezes his buttocks, pulls him toward her -- but prince resists her coldly, regards her with contempt. suddenly he flips her onto her stomach, forces her to stand painfully on her knees. he rubs his hand between her buttocks, then thrusts into her painfully, driving himself to the very depths of her... ...but she stifles a cry, arches her back, and meets his thrusts fiercely, moving quicker and quicker, banging her buttocks against his thighs again and again. she's drawing from him now, turning the humiliation around, obtaining all that she needs and desires. he's powerless -- her thrusts set the pace. she rises, prince still inside her and tugs on him rapidly, causing him to suddenly, drawing from him a sharp and sudden cry... she moves away, draws her coat tightly about her, fixes him with a contemptuous look--
speaker1: you're nothing, prince, absolutely nothing. you think you're so special -- but deep down you're just like all the rest. your whole life you've been hiding, hiding behind your music. but now you don't even have that, because last night...last night you used it to hurt someone, someone who really cares. she runs up the embankment, wipes away her tears, faces him--
speaker1: if you put your hands on me like that ever again, i'll be the last person you touch. she pulls off his mother's earring, throws it at him. tears flowing, she streaks into the highway blindly, directly into the path of a speeding car-

speaker1: spots her in his headlights, slams on his brakes! he skids wildly across the road, comes to a screeching, burning stop inches from her thigh! 
speaker2: shoots a look at prince, her lips trembling, her love for him, written plainly on her face. but his eyes flash defiantly. she bites her lip sadly, then snaps a hot look at the driver--
speaker2: i need a ride. she cuts around the car, hops in. the driver skids off into the night. prince stands there trembling, watches as it disappears into the distance.

speaker1: dad...? silence. a sudden dread courses through him, leaving a hollow in his stomach. his feet are like lead. he moves heavily into the room-- 
speaker1: mom...? nothing. panic sets in. he streaks down the hallway, twists open the bedroom door -- it's empty. blue night light glows through the windows. curtains play delicately in the breeze. he's thoughtful, walks back into the living room... ...the coffee table is smashed. he looks at it curiously, wondering stupidly if it had always been like that. then sudden bolt of fear makes his head swim. a lamp, a porcelain dish, some knickknacks on the mantle -- all smashed. he rushes into the kitchen, looks around crazily--
speaker1: daddd...! nothing but the decay of his scream. the basement door is ajar. he cuts to it quickly, pulls it open, peers frantically into the darkness below. he snaps on the light...

speaker1: sits motionless a long time. moonlight floods the basement with a foreboding light. a dog barks somewhere in the distance. he looks up suddenly, his face agitated, his eyes red from tears. 
speaker1: noooooo!! he lurches to his feet, cuts through the basement like a madman. he grabs a stick and starts slashing things crazily, moving through the room swinging his stick wildly again and again. he's lost to himself now, deep in the pit of an unknown terror, expurgating a horror that has been festering in him for years. he flings his stick at the wall, unends shelves and bureaus, trampling old memories that have lain dormant for years. drawer after drawer is flung against the wall, their contents smashing and scattering about. he opens a large, oaken chest and flips over. thick three inch piles of yellowed paper fall out. he snaps through the rubber bands holding them together and flings the paper at the wall again and again... ...he stops suddenly, shocked. he sees musical notes written down on the paper. his heart pounding in his chest, he searches frantically through the rubble scattered about him. more and more musical notes, sketched ideas, simple melodies, entire songs and scores -- all meticulously recorded on lined yellowed paper, dated for the last 20 years, and signed...by his father. he's shocked to a standstill. then the full significance of what's before him hits him like a sledgehammer. he collapses in agony against the chest, tears flowing down his cheeks.

speaker1: you love us right?! you want us right?! i can't hear you! the crowd is screaming -- morris flashes a wide, exaggerated grin-- 
speaker1: what time is it?! whawhak!! and music. the time launches into "the bird" and morris, laughing heartily, does 'the bird" with jerome as the audience roars their approval.
speaker2: and it couldn't be more of a contrast! the place is a riot of color and raucous carryings on. "the bird" is a smashing success with everyone on the dance floor trying gamely to get the steps right. morris and jerome are flushed with pride, surprising even themselves with their impromptu adjustments to the act. the music crescendos, then comes to a rousing blistering end! the stage is plunge into darkness. the crowd goes berserk. billy sparks shakes his head happily--
speaker3: 

speaker1: how's the family! whawhak! the time busts up, drags morris from the room. prince's group is shocked, casts furtive glances to him -- but he remains serene, then-- 
speaker2: ladies and gentlemen, please welcome prince! applause offscreen. prince stands abruptly, straps on his guitar. his band members look at him closely, trying to discern his feelings. he gives them a cursory glance, cuts out the door.
speaker3: prince hits the stage and the applause grows, but it' s nothing like the exuberance that greeted morris. he moves center-stage and plants himself there, his eyes staring into the audience.
speaker4: leans against the bar, a smug look on his face.
speaker5: walks slowly up the stairs, gazes at prince.
speaker6: does not move. the applause trickles away. he continues to stare in the audience making no attempt to direct his band, or start a tune. a nervous twitter ripples though the crowd. those who know about the tragedy feel a profound embarrassment for him -- but no one turns away. then his voice comes clear and mellifluous--
speaker6: i would like to do a song that two of my friends wrote. a murmur, cuts through the crowd like a riptide. prince snaps a look to lisa and wendy and confirms that it is indeed their song. they can't believe it! tears spring to wendy's eyes before she knows it ... prince smiles at her, then gazes at his entire band. their eyes fasten on him in an instant. he counts softly and... music. the opening bars of "purple rain." he turns to to the audience and

speaker1: is still running though, his face streaming with tears, past the surprised look of jill, past the fans, past everyone -- stripping of his clothes fiercely, flinging off his jacket, his shirt, his scarf-- 
speaker1: hi. she's thunderstruck, can barely squeak it out--
speaker2: hi. and he whips into the hallway. her face dissolves into a smile of pure joy.
speaker3: moving now, fast and furious. the hallway is lined with people. they reach for him as he passes, touching him, showering him with their love. someone hands him his shirt, another his scarf -- it's so intense! he's moving quickly now, his jacket up ahead, closer...he stops suddenly, stunned... ...vanity is holding his jacket. he's struck speechless -- she hands it to him smiling, tears streaming down her face--
speaker4: i love you. his knees go weak, she kisses him spontaneously, pushes him lovingly to the stage.

