speaker1: it was the first murder trial on the island in thirty-one years. 
speaker1: our only newspaper was the san piedro review, a four-page weekly that i operated alone.
speaker1: what, i wondered, could the seattle boys know of the hearts of these people...
speaker1: neighbors, sitting in judgement. on their neighbor.
speaker1: kabuo miaymoto sat with the rigid grace of a samurai warrior. as if detached from his own trial.
speaker1: did he know how dangerous his demeanor could be? with this jury.
speaker1: hatsue miyamoto had been without her husband for 77 days.
speaker1: he was in jail. when his baby son learned to walk.

speaker1: earlier, i noticed her in the corridor. 
speaker1: are you all right?
speaker2: go away, ishmael.
speaker1: please don't be like th... hatsue go away.

speaker1: ...four inch gash, skull crushed, and your thought was, what...? 
speaker1: that he...fell? hit his head on the gunnel going over?
speaker2: well, carl was six-four, went 235. he was a grizzly bear and an able seaman...
speaker2: for him to just...go over. crush his skull like that on the way in...

speaker1: he was a mountain, all right. anchored the line for us little fellers. 
speaker2: chambers. y'see the geese?
speaker2: picture'd be nice. in your pa's paper.
speaker1: lucky i got the camera in my helmet.
speaker2: careful, chambers. that was almost a joke.

speaker1: and you weren't there, when the coroner examined the wound. 
speaker2: nossir. i'd gone to tell the wid... to tell mrs. heine.

speaker1: hey there, men. is your mother home a-tall? 
speaker2: sheriff moran, hullo.
speaker1: you go on and play, now.
speaker2: what can i do for you, sheriff, carl's not home y...
speaker1: that's...
speaker1: it's why i'm here. i'm afraid i have some...very bad news to tell you, the...worst...kind of news.
speaker1: carl died last night. in a fishing accident. in white sand bay.
speaker2: no, carl's fine, h...
speaker1: we found him, mrs. heine. tangled in his net.
speaker2: i told him this could happen.

speaker1: so, no...immediate suspicion, no...general talk of enmity between the two. 
speaker2: these are fishermen, alvin. they don't talk at all to each other and less to me. specially gossip.

speaker1: a gill-netter works through black nights with only himself to talk to. and learns to be silent. they were lonely men and products of geography. 
speaker1: ...men who, on occasion, realized that they wished to speak, but couldn't.
speaker2: figure you'da heard by now.
speaker3: you go fishing, it happens. ishmael you see susan marie?
speaker2: i did. boy.
speaker1: three kids. what's she going to do? gjovaag well, what
speaker3: i don't need to excuse nothin'. you anyhow, chambers.
speaker1: like the sheriff, i did not work the sea, and could never merit trust.
speaker4: sheriff's been askin' which boats followed carl out last night... moran only to see if somebody talked to him out th...
speaker1: so who talked to him? out there.
speaker2: all right, look, if you see these boys...
speaker3: never saw you so hard-ass, art. ain't this just an accident?
speaker2: course it is, but a man's dead, william. i got to write my report.
speaker2: i'm not gonna see some article about an investigation, am i? ishmael you want me to lie?
speaker2: no, i wanna be off the record, that's what i want.
speaker2: i mean, if there is a killer, why would you want him all alerted?
speaker1: let's say...someday
speaker5: no sign of a struggle, you say.
speaker2: well, the coffee cup was layin' right in the
speaker5: my gosh, alvin, was i supposed to object every time you did that? a real. friendly smile. judge that's quite enough horseplay, nels, why don't you act your age?
speaker5: if i did that your honor, i'd be dead.
speaker6: any more homely loveable tricks, and you'll be worse than that.
speaker7: there's an objection, your h...
speaker6: and it's overruled, answer the question. if you can recall it.
speaker2: maybe the assailant straightened the cabin. and forgot the cup.
speaker5: right. in the middle. of the floor.
speaker2: maybe.
speaker5: i think you testified
speaker5: and yet you started the engine right up. with all those lights drawing all night, the batteries had that much charge. did that strike you odd?
speaker2: didn't think about it at the time.
speaker5: does it now?
speaker2: a little. yes. you have to wonder.
speaker5: you have to wonder.
speaker5: you found three batteries, you say. a d-6 and d-8 in the well. and a spare d-8 on the cabin floor.
speaker2: it is.
speaker5: now i did some measuring down at the chandlery. a d-6 is one inch wider than a d-8. it would be too large for the deceased's well.
speaker2: he's done some on-the-spot refit- ting. you could see the side was banged away to make room for the d-6.
speaker5: but he had a spare d-6, you said.
speaker2: it was dead. we had it tested. maybe the d-6 was the spare and he had to use it.
speaker5: maybe he carried a spare that was too large to fit. so he'd have to bang out the to squeeze it in?
speaker5: sheriff, how many batteries and what size did you find on
speaker5: no spare.
speaker2: no.
speaker5: so the defendant went out fishing for the night with
speaker5: i'm curious. the d-6 that was refitted into the deceased's well. was it exactly the same brand and model as defendant's?
speaker2: i believe so.
speaker5: now you've testified that the deceased was a heavy man, and hard to bring out of the net.
speaker5: is it possible his head struck the transom, or the stern gunnel, or the net roller, as you were bringing him in?
speaker2: i don't think so.
speaker5: you don't.
speaker5: you don't.

speaker1: ...so when the sheriff returned, you showed him the injury to the deceased's head. 
speaker2: he said, 'could it be somebody hit him?' and i said, 'you want to play sherlock holmes, here?' shakes his head, with a wry, disgusted smile.
speaker1: did you say more?
speaker2: i said that if i was playing sherlock holmes...i'd maybe look for a... japanese person. with a gun- a right-handed fella, to be precise.
speaker1: and why. is that?
speaker2: well, i was a doctor in the theater, in the war. i saw those kendo wounds,
speaker2: japanese stick-fighting. they're trained as kids, y'know. to kill with sticks.
speaker1: no further questions.

speaker1: hips, stomach, 
speaker1: hips sink more. less weight on the heels, so tha...
speaker1: elbow soft. a little better.

speaker1: you can be good with the bokken. if you begin to concentrate. 
speaker1: you must choose now, kabuo. at eight years. if you want this. kabuo i

speaker1: so this...foam you found in the lungs. how does it get there? 
speaker2: as i testified. it occurs when water, mucus and air are mixed by respiration. i believe i said that. nels but a drowned person can't breathe.
speaker2: of course not. the foam means that he went
speaker2: well...
speaker1: your report says death by
speaker1: can you tell whether an object moved against the head, or the other way around? or would both look the same.
speaker2: the same.
speaker1: so if his head struck something narrow and flat, the gunnel of a boat, a net roller, a fairlead, could that have...
speaker2: if the head was moving fast enough, but i don't see how it could be.
speaker1: is it possible?
speaker2: sure, anything's poss...
speaker1: is it fair to say that you do not know for

speaker1: but you are 
speaker2: can i say something, here?
speaker1: yes, you can tell me about the minor cut you found on the deceased's right hand. the report says 'recent origin'. how recent? as much as 24 hours before death?
speaker2: absolutely not. probably one or two hours. four at the most.
speaker1: are you absol...

speaker1: we'll take our luncheon recess. reconvene at...2 o'clock sharp. 
speaker2: how are the kids?
speaker3: they need their father.
speaker2: well. just a few more days. abel look, art's gonna want me t... kabuo you look beautiful.
speaker3: i look terrible. don't sit so straight like tojo's soldier. the jury will be afraid of you.
speaker2: okay, i'll hide under the table from now on. that make you happy?
speaker2: i'm not going until you smile.

speaker1: they'll hear everything. 
speaker1: never. you're my only.
speaker1: ...so right.

speaker1: her mom had this mrs. shigemura come on wednesdays. teach her how to be japanese. 
speaker1: dances, calligraphy. doing her hair.

speaker1: she would tell me stories of this woman and her lessons. as if complaining, or at least ex- plaining her world... 
speaker1: but i always fantasized. the lessons were for me.

speaker1: hakujin know nothing of life, hatsue. 
speaker1: this is why they fear death. because life here is separate from being.
speaker1: it is why they have no soul.
speaker1: life embraces death, includes it. this truth brings tranquility. you must see yourself...
speaker2: ...as a leaf. on a great tree.
speaker1: the pin. could be better placed.

speaker1: my lessons came from my father. they were different. or seemed so, at the time. 
speaker1: he operated the review alone, with an integrity and passion for principle that made him a figure of respect. if slightly larger than life.
speaker1: he never spoke of wanting me to succeed him. and, in truth, it was the last job on earth i thought i'd ever want.
speaker1: when i was five, he casually mentioned that if his sleeve got caught in the press, he'd be instantly popped open like a child's balloon, and splattered across the walls.
speaker1: even his bones would disappear, to be discovered later on the floor, as strips of white confetti.
speaker1: which, of course, made me certain that life would have no meaning until i could run that teakettle.

speaker1: he was, for better or worse, the only in my life. i guess it's our nature to resent those we know we can never measure up to... 
speaker1: ...which keeps us from accepting the warmth. the way we should.
speaker1: every summer, after harvest, the strawberry festival was dad's favor- ite story to cover. good news was his preference. making him an oddity among journalists.
speaker1: highlight was crowning the strawberry princess. always a japanese girl, sort of an unwitting virgin sacrifice to the concept of racial harmony.
speaker1: senior year. it was hatsue.
speaker1: she winked at me. in public.

speaker1: i had kissed her once, when we were ten. looking at fish through a glass-bottomed box. it was just an impulse, and no big deal. 
speaker2: he's still got a good grip. we need to dig more.
speaker1: at school, she kept mostly to the japanese kids, and sort of ignored me. as if all of our times alone together...in the hollow cedar, everywhere...were a secret.
speaker1: i told myself that was good. that it made our friendship special. and didn't mean she was ashamed of it.
speaker2: easy. slow is best.
speaker1: i thought about her. sometimes, all the time. i knew i was unhappy. but i knew if i told her...
speaker1: it might be a mistake. i could never correct. ishmael i like you.
speaker1: do you know what i mean, hatsue? i've always liked you.
speaker1: i knew in my heart that we would love each other forever.
speaker1: the way she kissed me. she knew it, too.

speaker1: she avoided me for a week. 
speaker1: so this way, i could see her without...bothering anyone.
speaker1: i was certain everything would work out.
speaker1: and frightened.

speaker1: by two weeks, i knew i had made the defining mistake of my life. 
speaker1: i'd ruined everything.

speaker1: you followed me, huh? 
speaker2: sorry. it sort of...happened, i just...i followed you. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'm all wet.
speaker2: i'm sorry i kissed you on the beach.
speaker2: let's just forget about it. forget it happened.
speaker1: don't be sorry. i'm not sorry about it.
speaker2: me neither.
speaker1: do you think this is wrong?
speaker2: the best part was that there was a 'this'. to debate the wrongness of.
speaker2: your friends would. your dad would kill me with a machete.
speaker1: we're japanese, not mexican, ishmael. he'll slice you up with a ceremonial sword.
speaker1: my mom. would be the problem.
speaker2: why? we're only talking.
speaker1: i can't hear you.
speaker2: we kissed for half an hour, that first time. and i knew there would never be another day like it.
speaker2: no matter how long i lived.

speaker1: ...you were acquainted with the defendant 
speaker1: so the defendant knew the deceased, your son, even then.
speaker2: they fished t'gether. went to school. carl junior treated him like a white person. like any friend.
speaker1: but the dispute began. with the father, yes?

speaker1: don't sell, carl. you'll regret it. 
speaker2: only seven acres, and the worst seven, at that. they're decent folks. they got five hunnerd to put down
speaker2: they work hard, live clean, don't spend nothin'. even kind to the indjuns. people is people, comes down to it.
speaker1: you wear the pants, doncha? go ahead, sell our land to a and see what comes of it.

speaker1: but back in '34, japanese-born could not 
speaker2: their kids was born here. so when the oldest, that one there, was twenty...last payment gets made, and he could own it.
speaker2: but they missed their last two payments. so that was that.

speaker1: march 1942, orders came down. japs had eight days before the army was gonna cart 'em off. 
speaker2: we must leave everything. if you like, you can work our fields, sell berries, keep the money. otherwise, they just rot.
speaker1: japs are shrewd. offer berries he can't use. soften us up about those two payments still to come.
speaker2: today, i have $120 toward next paym...
speaker3: absolutely not, zenhichi. i'm not gonna take your savings at a time like this.
speaker2: please, you take. then, i send more from where i'm going. if not enough, you still have seven acres strawber...
speaker1: thought you was
speaker1: you want more coffee?
speaker2: no, thank you. take money, please.
speaker3: etta's been rude to you, and i apologize for that. you keep this money, and those payments will work out fine. somewhere down the road.

speaker1: look at this! 
speaker1: kabuo loaned it to me. til he gets back.
speaker1: it's great for sea-run cutthroat.
speaker2: take that back. and do it now.
speaker1: i told kabuo i'd take ca...
speaker2: those japs owe us. i don't want nothin' confusing that.
speaker2: i said now, boy. supper's in forty minutes.
speaker3: we ain't right together.
speaker3: you and me. we just ain't right.

speaker1: you said neither of the last two payments were made. but your husband told defendant's father that he could pay them...what, 'down the road'. 
speaker2: road ended october 1944, when my husband passed away.
speaker2: i sold all the land to our neighbor, ole jurgensen. got a fair price, this time.
speaker2: in the war. europe, i believe. they could hardly send him to the pacific, could they?
speaker1: and when he came home. did he write you about this? or phone, perhaps.
speaker2: just showed up at my door, big as life and twice as mean. wanted to talk to my son.

speaker1: he's over the ocean, fighting the japs. they're just about licked. kabuo just about. 
speaker1: when mr. heine passed away, i couldn't farm the place myself, could i? you're gonna have to talk to ole abou...
speaker2: i just did. he didn't know we were one payment away. you didn't tell him mr. heine promised my fath...
speaker1: i was s'posed to
speaker1: get out of here.
speaker2: you sold our land out from under us, mrs. heine. you took advantage of the fact that we were gone. you...

speaker1: what do you mean by 'dirty looks'? 
speaker2: well. every time i see him in town or somewhere, he's starin' at me with these narrow eyes.
speaker1: when your son came back from the war, what did he say about all this?
speaker2: that he'd keep an eye on miyamoto.
speaker1: did he see some
speaker1: all right. what did your son
speaker1: your witness.
speaker3: just three questions. the miyamoto family bought your seven acres for

speaker1: tried to. defaulted on their payments. 
speaker2: second question. what did ole jurgensen pay you per acre?
speaker1: a thousand.
speaker2: so that makes what would have been $4500 into $7000, doesn't it? if you sent the equity back, you had a profit of $2500.
speaker1: is that your third question?
speaker2: it is.
speaker1: you done your math right.
speaker2: you, too. no further questions.

speaker1: were those his 
speaker2: oh, yeh. he said someday he would get his land back.
speaker1: mr. jurgensen. did he offer to
speaker1: and then your stroke came this summer. and you put your property on the market, i believe you said september 7. which, remember, is
speaker1: but carl was a fisherman. and successful at it.
speaker2: he said he didn't want that life no more. he'd been saving to buy a farm. he was sorry i got sick. but pretty excited to get back his father's place.
speaker2: liesel and me. was happy for him.
speaker1: and later, that

speaker1: i'm sorry to tell you, we took his earnest money, he shook ole's hand. come november, he'll sell his boat, and take over the farm. 
speaker2: but your sign...
speaker3: we din't have no time to take it down. he just come ten o'clock.
speaker2: it's my fault. i should have come earlier.
speaker3: if you want t'buy them seven acres. carl heine's the only fella can sell 'em.

speaker1: i apologize for keeping you folks from your families in a storm like this. i do hope you'll be reasonably comfortable in the hotel tonight. and one more thing... 
speaker1: this court takes judicial notice of the fact that tomorrow is the 13th anniversary of the attack on pearl harbor.
speaker1: which has

speaker1: know where it is? 
speaker1: it's in my other hand.
speaker1: your mother went to the bathroom.
speaker2: he doesn't

speaker1: this here is nels gudmundsson, he's your attorney. 
speaker2: what makes you think i play?
speaker3: your daddy played. i asked, down at the japanese community center. you smoke cigars?
speaker2: i'm not sure. i better check down at the center.
speaker3: white or black?
speaker2: you mean, do i like to take the offensive? or hang back and wait.
speaker3: nice. when two fellas understand each other.

speaker1: you must think i like losing. 
speaker2: i think you like learning.
speaker2: me, too. that's why i come.
speaker2: bet there's a few things you could teach me. kendo, for one.
speaker1: sure. i could take a fishing gaff and split your head open. right above your left ear.
speaker1: you wouldn't even see it move.
speaker2: you're wonderin'...how come i never ask. if you did it.
speaker2: now, you've told me you killed four men. in germany. so i know you are the kind of man who can kill. when there's a reason. kabuo guess i am.
speaker2: you feel guilty. that you took their lives. that's in your eyes. strikes a match. nels jury sees what i see. more often than not.
speaker2: prosecutor thinks. what was your reason? to kill carl heine.
speaker2: well, there is the land itself. raise your children where you were raised. sleep with your wife at night, 'stead of bein' alone on the sea.
speaker2: there's fairness and honor. you were cheated by that old boy, she is something. kabuo she's not alone. worlds within those words. nels none of us are.
speaker2: and prejudice, like you say. your people locked in a concentration camp. you go off to fight for our country's freedom. come back to this.
speaker2: but mr. hooks has missed the
speaker2: and you weren't thinking about her. or about land. or about you. no, you weren't. and in the gentlest voice...
speaker2: no, someone cheats you, you can rise above that. you're a family man. you put them ahead of you, hmmn?
speaker2: wasn't you she dishonored.
speaker2: your father was a strong and tireless man. honest to a fault. kind, and humble as well... there is a silence. and then... kabuo nice. when two fellas. understand each other.
speaker2: now this jury is gonna be lookin' at the evidence with one eye.
speaker1: mr. gudmundsson, we
speaker2: so every time you think about showing that jury strength. or honor or composure. or dignity.
speaker1: i should show them an american?
speaker2: show them an innocent man.
speaker1: shame you couldn't play chess with my dad, sir. he'd kick your ass.

speaker1: i gave her all of my soul to love. i knew someday we would live in france. italy. somewhere. far from the things that upset her. 
speaker2: i can just feel my spirits soar.
speaker1: well, i don't do it for just anybody.
speaker1: there can't be any wrong in this, ha...
speaker2: i lie to my parents every day. and every night.
speaker1: well. since i never told your folks, i guess i'm lying to 'em, too. but you don't hear me complaining about it.
speaker2: i'm in awe. of your strength.

speaker1: ...not 
speaker2: hey, mr. lamberson, over here!
speaker2: i have a radio, too. don't you want to be sure

speaker1: it was a special edition, an extra. my father wrote, 'these people are our neighbors, they have sent their sons to the united states army...' 
speaker1: 'they are no more an enemy than our fellow islanders of german or italian descent.'

speaker1: my father can't get our money from the bank. we have a few dol... 
speaker2: it'll be over soon. i can get you money.
speaker1: it's not going to get better, okay?
speaker1: they arrested mr. shirazaki, because his farm is near a navy transmitter. and his family can't leave their house.
speaker2: it's just pearl harbor. people are a little crazy, right n...
speaker1: look at my face. it's the face of the people who did that. my father hardly speaks english. we're in bad trouble, you have to see that.
speaker2: maybe we can fix your eyes.
speaker2: don't let this hurt us, okay? whatever happens.
speaker1: it won't. you'll see.

speaker1: everyone on the island has these things. 
speaker2: you folks have been real polite, and we'll be outta your hair in just a second...
speaker2: that's very nice. from the old country, it appears. very high class.
speaker2: these are real nice things. they'll take special care of 'em.
speaker3: the flute is precious. the kimono, the music. must you take th...
speaker2: ...oh yeh, any old country stuff, we have to take.
speaker1: this is only my daughter's scrapbook. for her memories.
speaker2: strawberry princess, huh? you musta been flattered by that. looks just like y...
speaker3: you must believe. this for tree stumps. for clearing land.
speaker2: maybe. maybe. but this is still bad, y'see.
speaker2: it's illegal contraband, you were s'posed to turn this stuff in. we, uh...
speaker2: we gotta arrest you. have to take you to seattle.
speaker2: naw, you don't need those. mister eee-ma-da-san here is a class act, a real gentleman.
speaker1: please, reconsider. he has done no bad th...
speaker2: well, nobody knows that yet, do they? so, best for an honest man to clear his name for godd and all.
speaker2: only a few questions in seattle, okay? few questions, few answers, the whole thing is over.
speaker2: simple as that.

speaker1: why do i read you this distres- sing letter? from your father. from this hakujin...work camp, it is called. in montana. 
speaker1: because you need to know the darkness. in the hearts of the hakuj... hatsue not all of them.
speaker1: the whites are enslaved by their egos, hatsue. each believes his aloneness is everything. we seek union wi...
speaker2: ...the ones seeking union with the greater life bombed pearl harbor.
speaker1: if you lose your true self, hatsue. true self...
speaker1: there is no way back.

speaker1: see, you bring it on yourself. 23 ladies honored by the pta, you single out three names. and they're all japanese. that isn't journalism. arthur because...? 
speaker1: because journalism. is just the facts.
speaker2: which facts? you can't print them all. journalism is balance. finding the facts folks need to know.
speaker1: hence. the letters.
speaker2: 'seems like you're favoring the japs, art. writin' all about their patriotism and loyalty with nothin' 'bout the treachery.' a smile in the voice. a sad one.
speaker2: 'your newspaper is an insult to all white americans. please cancel my subscription and send refund.' now the smile is on his face. even sadder.
speaker2: the calls are better. 'jap lovers get their cut off and stuffed down their...' missed the rest. hanging up will do that.
speaker2: we lost the price-rite ads. and lottie opsvig's shop, and larsen's lumberyard and the anacortes cafe. and 30 percent of our subscribers.
speaker1: integrity is expensive stuff, huh?
speaker2: valuable things. sometimes are.
speaker2: but. i've got the answer.
speaker2: print four pages. instead of eight.

speaker1: you're like me. you've learned to be devious. 
speaker2: it's not devious, it's what we have to do. you're leaving tomorrow...
speaker2: you write to my house, and put kenny yamashita's name on the return address. it's no big deal.
speaker2: you smell like cedar.
speaker1: so do you. it's your smell i'll miss as much as anything.
speaker2: let's get married, okay?
speaker2: i want to marry you. is that okay?
speaker2: when something that means your whole life. is the last time ever...
speaker2: should tell you. or it's not fair.
speaker2: it felt right to me. it felt like getting married.
speaker1: i'll write you.

speaker1: on monday, march 30, 1942, the united states army graciously transported the imada women to the docks. 
speaker1: lifelong neighbors came to watch. curiosity masked as kindness...
speaker1: ...with some exceptions.

speaker1: you think we're far enough away now? 
speaker1: mom, whatever this is, they don't keep
speaker2: this letter. was opened. by mistake.
speaker2: the neighborhood boy. who taught you to swim?
speaker1: you shouldn't have opened that. it was mi... fujiko how deceitful of me.
speaker2: how can i ever hope. for your forgiveness.
speaker2: i have written this letter to the boy's parents...
speaker2: attraction is no crime, certainly among children. the dishonor lies in the concealment. from your families.
speaker2: i know that you know this. i know you have suffered. even if the hakujin could not.
speaker2: there will be no further letters. no contact of any k...
speaker1: one more letter. i will write it. you may read it, and send it for me.
speaker1: i deceived more than you. i deceived this sweet boy. and myself. it was never love.
speaker1: i will work hard. to earn your forgiveness.
speaker1: i can never hope for his.

speaker1: these boys are buildings us a mansion! 
speaker2: i'm kabuo miyamoto, mrs. imada.
speaker3: we are in your debt, miyamoto-san.
speaker2: my father is sick with the camp food. the rest of us are fine. don't speak of dept, please, we just want to help.
speaker2: hi, hatsue, remember me?
speaker2: i was a senior when you were a junior. but i've seen you around.
speaker4: hello.
speaker2: nice to see you.

speaker1: her letter reached me on the north island of new zealand. so i had a month to think it over... 
speaker1: i wrote her four times. 'i hate you with all my heart. i hate you, hatsue, i'll hate you always!'
speaker1: i never sent the letters. i wanted to kill as many japs as possible.

speaker1: you 
speaker2: i wanted to live. and i didn't know why.

speaker1: some colonel came down the beach. any man who didn't go over the wall at 2100 would be court-martialed, disgraced and imprisoned... every man lining up now, rifles at the ready. 
speaker1: the captain who followed said shot on sight.

speaker1: my arm was dealt with by a pharmacist's mate, whose surgical career was four hours old. 
speaker1: he used a handsaw.
speaker1: i dream of it, now and then. the way my fingers curled. against the wall.
speaker1: ...fucking goddam
speaker1: there was nothing more to say.

speaker1: your great-grandfather was a samurai, a magnificent soldier. 
speaker1: he killed himself. on the battlefield. at kumamoto.
speaker1: he went to battle with a sword. against rifles, mind you. knowing what honor required.
speaker1: he was angry. to the point of being crazy, yes. but he knew what honor. required.
speaker1: honor can require loyalty. revenge. death.
speaker2: these are safe, father. the hakujin will never f... zenhichi ...it is the
speaker1: every life ends. and if it ends dishonored. it is as if... and turns to his son. to complete the words. kabuo ...we have never lived.

speaker1: well, this one here comes off miyamoto's boat. matches all his others, worn equal and so on. but this one here... 
speaker1: ...comes off third cleat from the stern, port side. and it's brand new. unlike the rest.
speaker2: and the next one...?
speaker1: from carl heine's boat. all his were like this one, three-strand manila, new condition, braided in loops. not bowlined like miyamoto's.
speaker2: and the last...?
speaker1: found on carl's boat, too. starboard side, second cleat from the stern. but it doesn't match carl's lines. it matches miyamoto's. perfect.
speaker2: so if defendant had tied up to deceased's boat. with that last one. would those cleats have lined up?
speaker1: you bet. and if miyamoto there had been in a hurry to cast off, he coulda left this line behind on carl's boat.
speaker2: and replaced it later with the new one. that's your inference?
speaker1: pretty darn clear. i see. hooks begins to pace. toward the jury.
speaker2: and when you visited defendant on his boat. the evening after carl heine's death. did it seem pretty darn clear to him?

speaker1: cut your engine, we're coming aboard. 
speaker2: what for, sheriff?
speaker1: we have a warrant. to search your boat.
speaker2: well, what are you looking f... moran a murder weapon. we think you might be responsible for the death of carl heine.
speaker2: sheriff, if somebody killed carl, it sure as wasn't me.
speaker1: then let's get this over with, so you can get to fishin'. now, cut yor engine.
speaker1: you always run with the well open?
speaker2: i was checking the cables.
speaker1: d-6s, huh?
speaker1: we'll come back, let's take a look at the stern.
speaker1: see you replaced a mooring line, lately. this one's new.
speaker2: naw, i had that around for a while.
speaker1: sure you did. help me with this hold cover, willya? so kabuo slides the cover away. they peer in.
speaker2: there's nothin' to see. i need to get out there fi...
speaker3: art. looka this.
speaker3: there's blood on it.
speaker2: fish blood, i gaff fish with that.
speaker1: you gaff with the
speaker2: sheriff, i can't afford not to fish toni...
speaker1: look, no way i'm lettin' you out there. in a half hour you could be in canada.
speaker1: i'm sorry, son. but you're under arrest.

speaker1: now your testimony was interrupted yesterday, when that power line set fire to your mother-in-law's farmhouse... 
speaker1: and her farmhouse...?
speaker2: the damage was considerable. but she's insured. thanks, again.
speaker1: well, just to put it back in our minds, could you repeat what you told us. about the
speaker1: which you inferred was replaced by the d-6, which must have been a spare.
speaker2: what else could it be?
speaker1: even though a d-6 is too big, and the had to be banged out to squeeze it in. which makes it a peculiar choice.
speaker2: no further questions.

speaker1: so the blood on the gaff was not fish blood at all. it was 
speaker1: but you can't say with any certainty that the blood was his.
speaker2: no, but as i say, the type is rare.
speaker1: and the blood could
speaker1: you scraped the dried blood from the
speaker1: no bits of bone, no particles of scalp, no strands of hair?
speaker2: none.
speaker1: well, if the blood got
speaker1: you don't.
speaker1: the coroner testified that carl heine had a cut. a fresh cut. probably one or two hours old.
speaker1: on the palm. of his right hand.
speaker1: with no bone or scalp or hair present. would it be more probable that the blood came from crushing a man's skull...
speaker2: i'm a hemotologist, not a detective.
speaker1: ...or from the cut on his hand. which is more probable?
speaker2: it is not my function. to weigh those probabilities.
speaker1: you're right.
speaker1: ...that's the jury's job.

speaker1: now this regiment you were training, the 442nd, this was all nisei boys... 
speaker2: they were japanese-american boys, yes sir.
speaker1: and you were generally experienced in training men for hand-to-hand combat.
speaker2: it was my specialty, sir, i trained several thousand over the years.
speaker1: so. wide cross-section of men to evaluate. and the day that the defendant volunteered for this... demonstration. did you find him eager?
speaker2: more than eager. he was out to make a point. hooks finds that interesting. begins to pace.
speaker1: and what point. was that.

speaker1: you don't salute me, you don't call me 'sir', soldier, i'm an enlisted man. 
speaker1: and nobody
speaker1: no more 'sir'. that's the last of that.
speaker1: the exercise is avoiding thrusts. now, first y... kabuo ready, sergeant.
speaker1: are you ready for some simulated combat, soldier?
speaker2: for combat. sergeant.

speaker1: well, what then, sergeant? 
speaker2: what else? i had the boy teach me kendo. including...the importance of the bow.
speaker1: and your evaluation of the defendant? could he kill a much larger man with a fishing gaff? so quickly, there would be no sign of struggle?
speaker2: oh, in a heartbeat.
speaker2: able and willing. like few men i've ever seen.

speaker1: so the plan was for your husband to fish through the prime season. then, in november, sell the boat. and you would move onto the farm. 
speaker2: that was his plan, yes.
speaker3: whatever she said, she was hooks' star witness. the jury, especially the men, would not betray this fine lady with a not guilty verdict. how could they face her?
speaker1: can you think back for me to the morning of september 8? the day after your husband purchased the farm. one

speaker1: what 
speaker2: did he go away angry?
speaker1: he kept talkin' about those seven acres
speaker1: i couldn't...
speaker1: we were kids.
speaker3: so your husband said he's think it over. encouraged mr. miyamoto to believe he might sell to h...
speaker2: i wouldn't say encouraged.
speaker3: well, he didn't say 'no', did he?
speaker2: not in those words.
speaker3: so the defendant was encouraged to hope. or could have been.
speaker2: i guess so.
speaker3: i guess you'd have to guess. not having been there with them. having to guess whether your husband's report was word for word accurate.
speaker2: carl never lied.
speaker3: of course not. but it was emotional. a friend's plea set against his mother's attitude.
speaker3: those 'dirty looks'. defendant ever aim one of those at you?
speaker2: he had no reason to.
speaker3: carl ever say
speaker3: you can speak for what he
speaker3: sorry about that, mrs. heine.
speaker2: carl said he didn't like kabuo much anymore.
speaker3: the question is more about the
speaker2: and we can't ask him anymore.

speaker1: my father had bought the desoto fifteen years before. driving it reminded me of him. which i considered a neutral fact... 
speaker1: actually, it was pleasant.
speaker1: snow made all the fields into one. the notion that one man might kill another for a small patch, made no sense.
speaker1: but i knew such things occurred. having been to war and all.
speaker1: may i give you folks a lift?
speaker1: i didn't look at her. i thought that would be best.
speaker2: my father is grateful for your kindness. but he will free his car, shortly.
speaker1: okay, i'll help.
speaker1: i know it's caused you trouble. but don't you think the snow is beautiful, coming down?
speaker3: yes,
speaker2: just that. this trial is
speaker2: i don't mean everyone. just people who can do things because they can arrest people or convict them. or run a newspaper.
speaker1: maybe i
speaker2: will you write that?
speaker1: i might just.
speaker1: i was part of her life again. i was a person.

speaker1: you have the night watch? on the radio. 
speaker2: since september. last guys got transferred.
speaker2: shorthard the radio transmis- sions, write 'em up, file 'em in a cabinet. nobody ever looks. just take up space.
speaker1: all kinds of radio transmissions? fisherman in trouble, and such.
speaker2: all kinds. make yourself at home.

speaker1: i'd been back two months. it was the first time i'd seen her. 
speaker2: hello.
speaker1: i couldn't say anything. i just stood there, hating her.
speaker2: i'm sorry about your arm. kabuo and i. are very sor...
speaker1: the japs did it.
speaker1: they shot it off. at tarawa.
speaker1: i'm sorry, i'm sorry i said that.
speaker1: i'm sorry about everything. all of it.

speaker1: september 16. at 1:42 a.m., the dead of night. the s.s. west corona, a greek-owned freighter, was lost. in heavy fog. 
speaker1: they radioed to the lighthouse. they would have to dogleg, bisecting ship channel bank. and seaman philip milholland wrote that down. in his report.
speaker1: carl heine drowned. in ship channel bank. and his watch stopped. at 1:47.
speaker1: a huge freighter plowing through. throwing a wake big enough to fling any man overboard.
speaker1: how long you have this detail?
speaker2: me and smoltz came on dogwatch september 16.
speaker1: you mean, early morning the 16th?
speaker2: no, night of the 16th, morning the 17th. we replaced two guys named miller and milholland.
speaker2: they got transferred that day.
speaker1: some seaman's loast report. stuffed in a cabinet, good as lost forever. no one knows.
speaker2: you get what you come for?
speaker1: guess i'm not completely sure.

speaker1: i left the grocery, and wrote a letter. i apologizes from my heart. i should never have said that word to her. i never would again. 
speaker1: it sat in my desk for two weeks. before i threw it away.
speaker1: i knew her car. and sometimes when i'd see it, i'd...drive that way. at a distance.
speaker1: can i talk to you?
speaker2: i'm married, ishmael. it isn't right for us to be alone. people will t...
speaker1: there's no one here, and i've
speaker1: i'm like a dying person.
speaker1: i don't sleep. i tell myself this can't go on, but it goes on anyway.
speaker2: i did a terrible thing, ishmael. i knew what you felt. and what i didn't.
speaker2: and i never found the courage to tell you.
speaker1: you'll think this is crazy, but all i want is to hold you. just once. and smell your hair.
speaker2: you have to hear this, i can never touch you, ishmael. not once, not ever. there's no half- way. as much as i know it hurts you, you have to let this go.
speaker1: look, i
speaker2: i hurt for you. whether you'll ever believe that or not.
speaker2: i feel sick sometimes, with the guilt of what i've done to you. and i can't make it right.
speaker2: to hold you would be wrong and deceitful. you're going to have to live without holding me, that is the truth of the way things are.
speaker2: things end. they do. get on with your life.
speaker2: get on with your life.

speaker1: i drove from the lighthouse to my mother's place. i brought her some groceries. 
speaker2: your father thought that heavy snow was kindness. despite the hardship, it brought us beauty...
speaker2: ...and reminded us. of our place in things.
speaker2: you don't believe in anymore.
speaker1: agnostics don't believe or disbelieve, ma. we just don't pretend we know.
speaker2: we don't
speaker2: spend the night, will you? don't go back out into all that snow.
speaker1: i felt milholland's report in my pocket. and wondered why i wasn't telling her. telling someone.
speaker2: you've been busy with that trial, i suppose. such a travesty...
speaker2: they only arrested that poor soul because he's japanese.
speaker1: seattle boys think he's guilty. they say the evidence is rock solid.
speaker2: they're not his neighbor, like you are. he is a husband, a father, he risked his
speaker2: well, folks are pretty cold. and folks who believe in nothing else...they're cold, too.
speaker2: i've tried to understand your unhappiness, all these years. having gone to war, losing your arm...
speaker2: but other boys came back. and pushed on. they found girls, and married, had babies...
speaker1: someday i'll get lucky, too.
speaker2: your father fought at belleau wood, it took him years to get over it. nightmares, tears, b...
speaker1: ...but he found you.
speaker2: it isn't the war, ishmael. all those years growing up. you never had a real girl of your own.
speaker2: and i know you have it in you to love. i know that much. i wish i knew more.
speaker1: i'll stay tonight. thanks for asking.

speaker1: the japanese people of the island are saddened by this loss. your father was a man of great fairness and compassion for others... 
speaker1: a friend to us. and to all people.
speaker2: well...
speaker1: we know you will follow in his footsteps. and honor his legacy.
speaker2: i thought it then. and often since. a balance, he's said. finding the facts. that folks needed to know.

speaker1: dear ishmael. these things are very difficult to say. i can't think of anything more painful than writing this letter. he closes his eyes. ishmael think of reading it. 
speaker1: i don't love you, ishmael. there is no more honest way to say it.
speaker1: whenever we were together, i knew it. i loved you and i didn't love you at the same moment.
speaker1: the last time. at the cedar tree. i knew we could never be right together. and that soon i would have to tell you.
speaker1: this is the last time i will write to you. i am not yours anymore.
speaker1: i wish you the very best. your heart is large and you are gentle and kind. i know you will do great things in the world.
speaker1: i must say good-bye to you now. our lives will move on. the best we can.
speaker2: milholland's report was like her letter. something no one else. would ever read.
speaker2: thing about having only one hand. it's hard to tear pages up. and i wasn't carrying a match.
speaker2: so i thought of my father. the man who would have taken this report to judge fielding.
speaker2: but every reporter. chooses his own balance. finds the facts that matter.
speaker2: after all, the freighter was only a theory. it proved nothing at all. there were other facts. that mattered.
speaker2: tomorrow i would write a column. about prejudice. and she would be grateful. for my large...and gentle...heart.
speaker2: her husband would be judged. and she would be alone.
speaker2: alone. the past looks different.

speaker1: hopeful. is the word i would use. 
speaker2: but carl didn't say yes.
speaker1: he didn't say no. that was kabuo's point. given how carl's mother felt, carl was
speaker1: no. kabuo did not wish to beg, he respected carl's right to reflect. he was sure carl would do the honorable thing. nels and did he?
speaker1: the night of the 15th, kabuo helped carl at sea. with his dead battery.
speaker1: right there, on the boat, they agreed. $8400 for the seven acres, $800 down. they shook on it. kabuo was so excited when he came home.
speaker2: and when did you first learn. that carl had drowned?
speaker1: one o'clock, that afternoon, from a clerk at petersen's. nels your witness.
speaker3: your husband came home agitated, after his encounter with the deceased?
speaker1: i said 'excited'. not agitated, he was excited in the sense of being overjoyed.
speaker3: you were...overjoyed yourself, to hear the news?
speaker1: happy for him. and relieved.
speaker3: so, then, you...and your husband... must have called friends, relatives, to tell them the amazing news. yes? hatsue no.
speaker3: really? didn't call your mother, your sisters, about starting a new life. your husband never tells his brothers that the family honor is vindicated.
speaker1: we hear how carl...passed away.
speaker3: your husband returned at, what, seven o'clock?
speaker1: closer to eight.
speaker3: so, five hours. plenty of time for a call. he was 'excited', you say. in the sense of being 'overjoyed'.
speaker1: we are...cautious people. you would say conservative. there would be time for celebrating with others when a paper was signed.
speaker3: you thought the deceased might...
speaker1: of course not. we're just not quick to run and boast. in case something went wrong.
speaker3: and then, something did. carl heine was found dead. with his head crushed.
speaker1: yes, and then, what was there to call about? everything was up in the air.
speaker3: up in the air? was
speaker1: we discussed that. and decided not to.
speaker3: why not?
speaker1: because the facts could be misconstrued as murder.
speaker3: but if truth was on your side, whatever were you worried about?
speaker1: trials aren't only about truth, mr. hooks. even though they should be. they're about what people
speaker1: we were afraid. silence seemed better. to come forward seemed like a mistake.
speaker3: well, it seems to me... nels objection. mr. hooks can give his view in his summation.
speaker3: doesn't it seem to
speaker3: i suppose that you mean this
speaker1: you're implying th...
speaker3: i said. no further questions.
speaker4: that's enough, mrs. miyamoto, not another word. step down, please.

speaker1: thirty years fishing alone. ever had an occasion to board another man's boat 
speaker2: unwritten rule of the sea. we don't bother each other, stick to ourselves. ask anybody.
speaker1: now if you wanted to kill a man. think you'd try boarding against his will, and hitting him with a fishing gaff?
speaker2: it's a joke. maneuver up to carl's boat? tie your lines fast? come aboard? all against carl's will? it's the stupidest suggestion i ever heard of.
speaker1: i'm sorry about that. it wasn't mine in the first place.
speaker1: so the fishing gaff method wouldn't make sense?
speaker2: couldn't get on the boat. i'd just
speaker2: no sense to have
speaker1: course, if carl lost both batteries, dead in the water, his radio wouldn't work. so how would he signal for help?
speaker2: compressed air horn, most likely. hope to some man hears you in that fog.
speaker1: all right, what if the defendant
speaker1: well, what if?
speaker2: now, how is miyamoto gonna know in
speaker2: well, it does seem mighty warm in here. specially for mr. hooks.
speaker3: what if the defendant follows carl.
speaker4: alvin!
speaker3: rephrase. do you agree that he might tie up to the defendant's bo...
speaker2: so why's the d-6 in carl's well?
speaker3: who's to say? maybe it was just a spare, after all. or maybe the
speaker2: it

speaker1: but the toughest scenario. is the one hooks will never raise. 
speaker2: and what's that?
speaker1: that you came upon carl by accident. like you said. gave him the battery. like you said. asked him about the seven acres. like you said.
speaker1: only. he said no.
speaker1: and something...happened. that you'd never planned. because you're not a cold-blooded killer.
speaker2: i'm more a hot-blooded killer, huh?
speaker1: you won't hear that from hooks.
speaker2: you want me to say that.
speaker1: i want you. to tell the truth.
speaker2: you think that
speaker1: a question first. why do you want to know? kabuo because you're my friend.
speaker1: i believe you are a good man. who belongs with his family.
speaker1: and i believe. you didn't do it.

speaker1: my batteries are drawed down, both of 'em. alternator belts were loose. 
speaker2: no sweat. we'll pull one a mine, get ya started.
speaker2: you lashed up a lantern? 'gainst a fog like this?
speaker1: lantern and a air horn. that's all i got, without my juice.

speaker1: don't know how long it's take to get a charge... 
speaker2: keep it tonight. we'll catch fish. i'll see ya back on the docks...
speaker1: seven acres. i'm wonderin' what you'd pay for 'em. just curious, is all.
speaker2: what are you sellin' 'em for? why don't we start there. which makes the big man smile. just a little.
speaker1: did i say i was selling? but if i was, i'd have to figure you want 'em real bad. oughta charge a sall fortune, maybe...
speaker1: then again. maybe you'd want your battery back.
speaker2: the battery's in, that's done with. besides, you'd do the same for m...
speaker1: ...
speaker2: i killed men who looked just like you, pig-fed german bastards. and their blood don't wash off so easy.
speaker2: so don't talk to me about japs, you big son of a
speaker1: i am a bastard. i'm a big hun son of a and i still got your bamboo fishing rod.
speaker2: oh, yeh?
speaker1: hid it from my mom. caught a mess a sea runs. thing's still in my closet. kabuo you can have it. the with it.
speaker1: $1200 an acre, that's what i paid ole, won't take a dime less. you got no choice on that.
speaker2: didn't say i was buyin' did i? what you want down? just bein' curious, is all.
speaker1: a thousand down. we'll sign papers t'morrow.
speaker2: eight hundred. and it's a deal.
speaker3: for the life of me, sir, i cannot
speaker3: actually, she said you had decided.
speaker2: sheriff said right off, i was under suspicion. i didn't have a lawyer...
speaker3: but even
speaker3: well, 'initially' is an interesting word, sir. you'd
speaker3: should have told 'everything'. meaning, you should have told the
speaker3: my apologies. do you regret not telling the truth?
speaker2: i have told the truth.
speaker3: you mean, this morning. the new story, the battery story. that one is the truth? that's a question, sir. kabuo yes. and i told it long before this morning.
speaker3: i see. now what happened the day carl heine was found? before your arrest.
speaker2: i slept til one-thirty, when my wife woke me up with the news. we talked for a few hours. i left at six and went straight to my boat.
speaker3: didn't go anywhere else? no errands, no purchases? just straight to the boat. that's the truth.
speaker2: yes.
speaker3: well, the sheriff found
speaker3: conveniently, in your shed. only you didn't mention that a moment ago. why does this battery story change every time a new question is raised?
speaker2: you asked if i went straight to the boat. i did. with the battery.
speaker3: you're a hard man to trust, sir. you sit before us, with no expression, keeping a poker f...
speaker4: objection!
speaker5: you know better than that, mr. hooks. either ask questions that count for something, or sit down and be done with it.
speaker5: shame on you.
speaker3: i apologize to the court, for letting my feelings get the better of me.
speaker3: no other questions. we'll go to summation.

speaker1: ...believing that etta heine's son would 
speaker1: look clearly at the defendant. see the truth self-evident in him. and in the facts of this case.
speaker1: look into his eyes, ladies and gentlemen, consider his face. and ask yourself what your duty is as citizens of this community.
speaker2: ...not a
speaker2: there is
speaker2: an argument i find as despicable as it is dishonest and twisted and
speaker2: now kabuo miyamoto did one thing wrong. he was afraid to trust us, at first. afraid that he would be crucified by prejudice. as mr. hooks is urging you to do.
speaker2: well, we sent him. and his wife. and thousands of americans to concentration camps. they lost homes, belongings, everything.
speaker2: every once in awhile. somewhere in the world. humanity goes on trial. and integrity. and decency. every once in awhile, common folks get called on to give the report card for the human race.
speaker2: now here in america. we relish those chances. give us that one, we say. that's why we built this country in the first place.
speaker2: be americans. make your children proud.

speaker1: i'm awful sorry, ma'am, but you know i c... 
speaker2: what are you afraid of, sheriff?
speaker2: am i going to slip him a weapon for a mad escape? perhaps a kendo staff hidden in my dress?
speaker1: there's rules.
speaker2: well, please break them, then. i won't keep you a moment.
speaker2: i love you. and tomorrow, when i make our bed. i'm setting out your pillow.
speaker3: only if you ask me nice.
speaker2: did you write that column?
speaker4: i did. but the jury won't s...
speaker2: it's not for the. they only get to convict him.
speaker2: it's the judge who decides. if he'll hang.
speaker2: you don't think he did this.
speaker4: i know he didn't.
speaker2: come to supper, tonight. my mother would be proud to have you with us.
speaker4: i can't.
speaker4: tell your mom. i want a rain check.

speaker1: you have a visitor, son. 
speaker1: you said three minutes.
speaker2: won't take two.
speaker3: please, sit down...
speaker3: she told me you're writing a column. we're very grateful.
speaker3: she. said you two go way back...
speaker3: that's nice.
speaker2: you said there was a lantern in his hand. when you found him in the fog.
speaker2: and another one. lashed to the mast?
speaker3: that's right.
speaker2: two. lanterns.
speaker3: if i did the math right.
speaker2: it's the sheriff's math. i'm wondering about.

speaker1: blackmail. that's all it is. 
speaker2: i call it keeping your promise. we said if i ever needed some cooperation from you...
speaker1: you threatened me, chambers, pure and simple. and what idiot's gonna believe some and bull story that i made a deal to keep stuff outta your paper? not that anybody
speaker1: never shoulda given you that inventory in the first place.
speaker2: it's public record. if the public cares enough to read it.
speaker2: you said there was a coffee c... abel i picked it up.
speaker3: it's the only thing i moved, i swear. it was right there.
speaker1: you wanna see that in the
speaker2: actually. i was hoping you got it right. what's that, up there?
speaker1: nothin'. bits of string.
speaker2: pieces of twine aren't nothing.
speaker1: here now, what are you fixin' to do?
speaker2: have a look. at nothing.
speaker1: you can't go up there, touch things...
speaker1: you gonna climb that with one arm?
speaker2: you're right. i better use two.
speaker3: there's lots of 'em, art, look.
speaker2: a dozen or more, all figure eights.
speaker3: and look at that streak of rust, across the mast.
speaker2: it's on the twine, too. but it's not r...
speaker1: don't prove there was two lanterns. coulda been the one in the cabin.
speaker2: there's a stretch of ground between guessin' and provin', sheriff. i'll give you that.
speaker1: what do you think you're lookin' at now?
speaker2: not what i'm looking at. it's what i'm looking for.

speaker1: well. i guess it comes down to a feeling, don't it? if i 
speaker2: but what
speaker1: there's a chance it came from his hand.
speaker3: there's a chance of everything. but you add a chance from here and a chance from there, the world ain't made a coincidences only.
speaker4: look, if he gave carl a battery like he said, he'd only a had
speaker5: alex, stop arguin' just to argue.
speaker3: been six hours. you sayin' there's a way to go slower?

speaker1: well. it's imaginative... 
speaker1: ...i'll give you that.
speaker2: it's the way it happened, i know it is.
speaker1: no, you don't.
speaker1: that report. about the freighter? you didn't find that tonight, did you?
speaker1: you went right to the cell. then to the boat. then here. how long did you know about the freighter? ishmael one day.
speaker1: this tastes horrible, hmmn?
speaker2: you're wondering why i held it.
speaker1: i'm wondering how the judge is gonna like my waking up his old bones. in the middle of the night.
speaker1: your daddy. was quite a feller.
speaker2: yes, he was.
speaker1: he's looking down. and he's not thinking 'bout the man you were yesterday. he's proud of the man you are tonight. that's what counts.
speaker2: to my father. everything counts.
speaker1: what if i told you he once said to me...don't matter the road we take. just so we get there. ishmael then you'd be lying.
speaker1: doesn't make me wrong.

speaker1: all right, let's say that twine 
speaker1: tell us why that lantern would be so significant.
speaker2: well. it shows the prosecutor was wrong. it was
speaker1: well, why does it?
speaker2: because the second lantern, the one on the mast. was never found. so we have to ask...
speaker2: ...where did it go?
speaker2: maybe it went. where carl went.
speaker3: objection! speculation.
speaker1: your honor,
speaker1: so how does this fit with what you told us at the start? the freighter that plowed through ship channel bank...
speaker2: that's when he fell.
speaker1: fell.
speaker2: miyamoto gave him the battery, and left. carl's boat was running, he goes back to fishing. but at some point, he thinks of the lantern...
speaker1: still lashed to the mast.
speaker2: he figures a perfectly good lantern could get banged around up there. so he climbs up. to cut it down.
speaker1: just as the freighter comes through?
speaker2: coincidences happen. you run a yellow light
speaker2: maybe carl picks up something about the freighter on his radio, which is now working. same report milholland heard. and
speaker1: the knife. what knife?
speaker2: coroner found an empty knife sheath on carl's belt. but they never found the knife.
speaker2: he climbs up. his hand wound still bleeding. that's the blood i found on the mast.
speaker2: but there's no one around. to pick it up.
speaker1: still a coincidence. timing and all.
speaker2: the freighter started through at 1:42. the sea water seeped into carl's watch and stopped it. at 1:47.
speaker1: still and all. carl was a strong swimmer, he m...
speaker2: he hit his head. on the way in.
speaker1: you think so?
speaker2: the sheriff and the deputy and i inspected the deck closely. we found a small fracture in the wood of the gunnel. just below the mast.
speaker1: well, anything coulda caused that.
speaker2: anything. that had a blond hair.
speaker1: request introduction of exhibit 18. one single blond hair. which sheriff moran dug out of that fracture. below the mast. of carl heine's boat.
speaker1: we will call sheriff moran, who will confirm this. and coroner whaley to testify that the damage to the gunnel is of a size and nature not inconsistent with the deceased's skull fracture...
speaker1: but for now. your witness...
speaker3: i have to start reading your paper more closely. you're quite a storyteller. ishmael thank you. coming from the man who wrote, 'but here, adrift in the fog, i

speaker1: well, the freighter. the twine. the blood. the knife. the cup. the watch. the second battery. the phantom lantern. the fishing gaff. the cracked gunnel. the skull wound. the blond hair. that's 
speaker1: i stand corrected, sir. and you have a neat explanation for every one of them.
speaker1: and since you confess this is all pure guesswork. what is your expertise, sir, are you a detective of sorts?
speaker2: my expertise. is that i'm a journalist.
speaker2: and journalism. is balance. finding the facts folks need to know.
speaker2: then putting them together. so truth is revealed.
speaker1: but isn't the
speaker2: but
speaker2: like you couldn't believe.
speaker1: well, the defendant is a liar. he's confessed that much. and his explanation is...he was afraid.
speaker1: afraid that the good folks of this jury. would be too stupid to understand. too prejudiced to be fair.
speaker1: you buy that? ishmael i think he was greedy.
speaker1: greedy.
speaker2: he didn't want to lose any more.
speaker2: he'd lost a lot in the war, you see. i had sent him away. to a concentration camp. but a nice one.
speaker2: that's how journalists. answer questions.
speaker2: may i answer the question, your honor? anout the defendant's motivation to lie?
speaker3: i wouldn't miss it for the world, son. now, you say
speaker2: so there he was. his father lost his health there, finally died. they lost more than etta heine's seven acres. they lost their liberty, their dignity. their ideals about this country.
speaker2: they lost their trust in us. we had treated them worse than animals. how would we now see tham. as human beings?
speaker2: this man lost a lot in the war. he didn't want now to lose his babies. or the woman who loves him.
speaker2: and my expertise in this, sir. is that i lost a lot in the war myself.
speaker2: and the fact that i am the only witness. who placed his
speaker1: and i wouldn't blame these good people if they were a mite resent- ful. at a tactic that insults their intelligence.
speaker2: that's curious. i was

speaker1: it's fortunate that the man who 
speaker1: for it is not. as mr. gudmundsson so wisely put it. a small trial. in a small place.
speaker1: i lost more in that war than anyone will ever know. so did a lot of folks. and what we got back in return...
speaker1: ...was a country. where a man was innocent. until we

speaker1: all things considered... 
speaker1: ...you were adequate.
speaker1: i could make a few quibbles, but i am loathe to hurt your feelings.
speaker2: cigarette?
speaker1: i'll take two. one for later.
speaker2: i've always thought so.
speaker1: if i whistle. those boys'll see you, and come runnin'.
speaker1: naw, i've seen what that can do to a pack of cigarettes.
speaker2: better take three... fingers nimbly shred the seal, open the pack.
speaker2: maybe they'll keep us waiting.
speaker1: prejudice is like any obsession.
speaker1: there's a reason why we can't let go. even when we want to.
speaker2: a reason. nels we don't want to.
speaker1: hate or love. it works the same.
speaker2: your client's wife ever mention? we go way ba... nels her mother. may have said something.
speaker2: we don't let go, you s...
speaker1: it's a rare thing. takes a turning point.
speaker1: you gave this jury three chances. to turn.

speaker1: some let go, some don't. where did you? 
speaker2: she was an honest person. doing the best she could.
speaker1: the prosecutor, the judge, cut her off. she was desperate. her husband helpless...i was helpless...
speaker1: you couldn't let her. be helpless.
speaker1: when this verdict is read. she may look for your face.
speaker1: here's what she needs to see: this is nothing. we win it on appeal.
speaker2: it'll be there.

speaker1: we have, your honor. 
speaker2: will the bailiff please bring the verdict to the bench.

speaker1: will the foreman please read the verdict aloud. 
speaker1: this is your verdict, so say you all?
speaker1: this court thanks you for the good work you have done under difficult circumstances...
speaker1: go home, son. bless.

speaker1: and how about the jury? you had confidence they'd see justice done? 
speaker2: oh, sure. these are our neighbors, you know. they've got good hearts. we could see they were following the evidence real close...
speaker2: we're just grateful to every one of them.
speaker3: and you ma'am? you felt the same as your husband, i expect?
speaker4: honestly, no. which catches everyone. a little short. hatsue i felt my husband would be found guilty. unless proven innocent.
speaker4: and mr. chambers did that.

speaker1: ...can we get some background on your handsome family? i understand you two were childhood sweethearts... 
speaker2: well, no sir, not exactly. we met in the manzanar camp, you see, so i guess that was the most beautiful place i've ever been.
speaker2: no, her first love was another fella...
speaker2: i was the lucky one.
speaker3: it all sounds very romantic, ma'am. falling in love under those circumstances...
speaker4: he went off to the army, right from manzanar. and that last night, we danced alone in the desert...
speaker4: i told him. if you don't come back alive, i'll kill you.

speaker1: kindness, my father said. despite the hardship...it reminds us. of our place in things. 
speaker1: what the hell. did he mean by that?
speaker1: things fall on us, i suppose. from the sky.
speaker1: wars. freighters plowing through...
speaker1: and we seem...helpless. until we understand.
speaker1: accident rules every corner of the universe...
speaker1: except the chambers. of the human heart.

