DANA: frank, do you think you could give me a hand with these bags? 
FRANK: i'm not a doorman, miss barrett. i'm a building superintendent.
DANA: you're also a human being, frank.
FRANK: okay, okay. it's not my job, but what the hell. i'll do you a favor. he takes the grocery bags from her.
DANA: thank you, frank. i'll get the hang of this eventually.
FRANK: hiya, oscar. what do you say, slugger?
FRANK: that's a good-looking kid you got there, ms. barrett.
DANA: thank you, frank. oh, are you ever going to fix the radiator in my bedroom? i asked you last week.
FRANK: didn't i do it?

DANA: no, you didn't, frank. 
FRANK: okay, that's no problem.
DANA: that's exactly what you said last week.
BUGGY WHEELS: the brakes unlock themselves.

STANTZ: how many of them are there, ma'am? 
WOMAN: fourteen. they're in the back. i hope you can handle them. it's been like a nightmare.
WINSTON: how big are they?
WINSTON: we'll do our best, ma'am.
WOMAN: they're right out here.
STANTZ: ready?
WINSTON: i'm ready.
STANTZ: then let's do it.

KIDS: ghostbusters!! boooo!! 
WINSTON: how you doin', kids?
LITTLE BOY: i though we were having he-man.
STANTZ: he-man couldn't make it today. that's why we're here.
BOY: my dad says you're full of crap.
STANTZ: well, a lot of people have trouble believing in the paranormal.
BOY: no, he just says you're full of and that's why you went out of business.
STANTZ: i'm watching you. song.

WINSTON: that's it, ray. i've had it. no more parties. i'm tired of taking abuse from over-privileged nine-year-olds. 
STANTZ: come on, winston. we can't quit now. the

WINSTON: give it up, ray. you're living in the past. ghostbusters doesn't exist anymore. in a year these kids won't even remember who we are. 
WINSTON: yeah, what did we do, ray? the last real job we had we bubbled up a hundred foot marshmallow man and blew the top three floors off an uptown highrise.
STANTZ: yeah, but what a ride. you can't make a hamburger without chopping up a cow.

VENKMAN: hi, welcome back to the 'world of the psychic,' i'm peter venkman and i'm chatting with my guest, author, lecturer and of course, psychic, milton anglund. milt, your new book is called the end of the world. isn't that kind of like writing about gum disease. yes, it could happen, but do you think anybody wants to read a book about it? 
MILTON: well, i think it's important for people to know that the world is in danger.
VENKMAN: okay, so can you tell us when it's going to happen or do we have to buy the book?
MILTON: i predict that the world will end at the stroke of midnight on new year's eve.
VENKMAN: this year? that's cutting it a little close, isn't it? i mean, just from a sales point of view, the book just came out, right? so you're not even looking at the paperback release for maybe a year. and it's going to be at least another year after that if the thing has movie-of-the-week or mini-series potential. you would have been better off predicting 1992 or even '94 just to be safe.

VENKMAN: where do you find these people? i thought we were having the telekinetic guy who bends the spoons? 
NORMAN: a lot of the better psychics won't come on the show. they think you're too skeptical.
VENKMAN: skeptical! norman, i'm a pushover. i think professional wrestling is real.
VENKMAN: what's all this?
NORMAN: they just interviewed the mayor on 'cityline.'
VENKMAN: the mayor! he's a friend of mine.
VENKMAN: lenny!
VENKMAN: lenny! it's pete venkman!
HARDEMEYER: can i help you?
VENKMAN: yeah, you can get your hand off my chest.
HARDEMEYER: i'm jack hardemeyer. i'm the mayor's assistant. what can i do for you?
VENKMAN: i'm an old friend of the mayor's. i just want to say hello to him.
HARDEMEYER: i know who you are, doctor venkman. busting any ghosts lately?
VENKMAN: no, that's what i want to talk to the mayor about. we did a little job for the city a while back and we ended up getting sued, screwed and tattooed by deskworms like you.
VENKMAN: okay, i get it. but i want you to tell lenny that, because of you, i'm not voting for him.

JANOSZ: still working on the turner? 
DANA: oh, yes, i got in a little late this morning, janosz.
JANOSZ: you know, you are really doing very good work here. i think soon you may be ready to assist me in some of the more important restorations.
DANA: thank you, janosz. i've learned a lot here, but now that my baby's a little older, i was hoping to rejoin the orchestra.

JANOSZ: we'll be very sorry to lose you. perhaps i could take you to lunch today? 
DANA: actually, i'm not eating lunch today. i have an appointment. in fact, i'd better go. she starts gathering up her things.
JANOSZ: every day i ask you, and every day you've got something else to do. do i have bad breath or something?
DANA: i'm sorry. perhaps some other time.
JANOSZ: okay, i'll take a raincheck on that.
JANOSZ: i think she likes me.

DANA: ... and then the buggy just suddenly stopped dead in the middle of the street 
SPENGLER: did anyone else see this happen?
DANA: hundreds of people. believe me, i didn't imagine this.
SPENGLER: i'm not saying you did. in science we always look for the simplest explanation. an assistant interrupts.
ASSISTANT: we're ready, dr. spengler
SPENGLER: we'll start with the negative calibration. he picks up the device and prepares to test it.
DANA: what are you working on, egon?
SPENGLER: i'm trying to determine whether human emotional states have a measurable effect on the psychomagnetheric energy field. it's a theory ray and i were working on when we had to dissolve ghostbusters.
SPENGLER: we'll do the happiness index next. i'd like to bring ray in on your case, if it's all right with you.
DANA: okay, whatever you think -- but not venkman.
SPENGLER: oh no.
DANA: do you ever see him?
SPENGLER: occasionally
DANA: how is he these days?
SPENGLER: venkman? i think he was borderline for a while there. then he crossed the border.
DANA: does he ever mention me?
SPENGLER: no. not that i can recall.
DANA: well, we didn't part on very good terms and we sort of lost track of each other when i got married.
ASSISTANT: we're ready for the affection test.
SPENGLER: good. send in the puppy.
DANA: this is my address and telephone number.
SPENGLER: certainly.
DANA: egon, i'd rather you didn't mention any of this to peter if you don't mind.
SPENGLER: i won't.
DANA: thank you.
SPENGLER: now let's see how she reacts when we take away the puppy

SPENGLER: who was that? 
STANTZ: some crank. looking for goat hooves. come up with anything?
SPENGLER: this one's interesting. berlin, 1939, a flower cart took off by itself and rolled approximately half a kilometer over level ground. three hundred eyewitnesses.
STANTZ: you might want to check those duke university mean averaging studies on controlled psychokinesis.
SPENGLER: good idea.
VENKMAN: oh, hello, perhaps you could help me. i'm looking for an aerosol love potion i could spray on a certain penthouse pet that would make her unconditionally submit to an unusual personal request.
STANTZ: oh, hiya, pete.
VENKMAN: so, no goat hooves, huh?
STANTZ: i knew that voice sounded familiar. what's up? how's it going?
VENKMAN: nowhere -- fast. why don't you lock up and buy me a sub?
VENKMAN: egon!
SPENGLER: hello, venkman.
VENKMAN: how've you been? how's teaching? i bet those science chicks really dig that big cranium of yours, huh?
SPENGLER: i think they're more interested in my epididymis.
VENKMAN: i don't even want to know where that is.
STANTZ: oh, your book came in, venkman. magical paths to fortune and power.
VENKMAN: great. so what are you guys working on?
STANTZ: oh, just checking something for an old friend.
VENKMAN: who?
STANTZ: who? just -- someone we know.
VENKMAN: oh, ray -- he grabs stantz by both ears and pulls up.
VENKMAN: who? who? who?
STANTZ: aaah! nobody! i can't tell you!
VENKMAN: who, ray?
STANTZ: dana! dana barrett!

DANA: hi, ray. it's good to see you. thanks for coming. 
STANTZ: no problem. always glad to help -- and hug.
DANA: hi, egon.
VENKMAN: hi, dana.
VENKMAN: i knew you'd come crawling back to me.
DANA: hello, peter.
VENKMAN: you know, dana, i'm very very hurt that you didn't call me first. i'm still into all this stuff, you know. haven't you ever seen my show?
DANA: i have. that's why i didn't call you first.
VENKMAN: i can see that you're still very bitter about us, but in the interest of science, i'm going to give it my best shot. let's go to work, boys.

VENKMAN: so what happened to mr. right? i hear he ditched you and the kid and moved to europe. 
DANA: he didn't "ditch" me. we had some problems, he got a good offer from an orchestra in england and he took it.
VENKMAN: he ditched you. you should've married me, you know.
DANA: you never asked me, and every time i brought it up you'd get drowsy and fall asleep.
VENKMAN: men are very sensitive, you know. we need to feel loved and desired, too.
DANA: well, when you started introducing me as "the old ball and chain," that's when i left.
VENKMAN: i may have a few personal problems but one thing i am is a total professional. he leaves her and crosses to spengler.

VENKMAN: what are you going to do, egon? knit him a snowsuit? 
SPENGLER: i'd like to have a stool specimen
VENKMAN: yeah, you would. is that for personal or professional reasons?
VENKMAN: okay, kid. up you go.
VENKMAN: help! please somebody help me! get him off! quickly! he's gone completely berserk!
DANA: what do you think?
VENKMAN: there's no doubt about it. he's got his father's looks. the kid is ugly -- extremely ugly. and smelly. you stink! it's just horrible. you are the stinkiest baby i ever smelled. what's his name?
DANA: his name is oscar.
VENKMAN: oscar! you poor kid!
VENKMAN: unusual? i don't know. i haven't had a lot of experience with babies.
DANA: i'll do it.
VENKMAN: i'll supervise.

VENKMAN: well, holmes, what do you think? 
STANTZ: it's an interesting one, pete. if anything was going on it's totally subdued now. spengler enters.
VENKMAN: what now, brainiac?
SPENGLER: i think we should see if we can find anything abnormal on the street.
VENKMAN: finding something abnormal on the street shouldn't be too hard.

VENKMAN: brings back a lot of sweet memories, doesn't it? there's our old cash machine. and the dry cleaners we used to go to. and the old video store. we really had some good times, didn't we? 
DANA: we definitely had a moment or two.
DANA: that's where the buggy stopped.
VENKMAN: okay, let's take a look.
STANTZ: is this the spot?
DANA: a little to the left. right there! that's where it stopped. stantz reads the pke meter.
STANTZ: nothing. not a trace.
SPENGLER: why don't we try the giga-meter?
VENKMAN: what's that?
STANTZ: egon and i have been working on a gauge to measure psychomagnetheric energy in gevs - giga electron volts.
SPENGLER: that's a thousand million electron volts.
VENKMAN: i knew that.

STANTZ: i think we hit the honeypot, boys. there's something brewing under the street. 
VENKMAN: you mean like the time you got possessed and turned into a monster terror dog? no, not a chance. total coincidence. am i right?

VIGO: i, vigo, the scourge of carpathia, the sorrow of moldavia, command you. 
JANOSZ: command me, lord.
VIGO: on a mountain of skulls in a castle of pain, i sat on a throne of blood. what was will be, what is will be no more. now is the season of evil. find me a child that i might live again.

VENKMAN: i love this. we're onto something really big. i can smell it, ray. we're going to make some headlines with this one. 
STANTZ: hey, hey, hey, stresshound! are you nuts? if anybody found out about this we'd be in serious trouble. the judge couldn't have been clearer - no ghostbusting.
VENKMAN: relax. we're going to keep this whole thing nice and quiet, low key, no profile.

FIRST COP: how ya doing? 
SPENGLER: fine! it's cutting fine now.
FIRST COP: why are you cutting?
SPENGLER: why are we cutting? uh - boss!
FIRST COP: what are you doing here?
VENKMAN: what the hell's it look like we're doing? we're bustin out over here 'cause some douchebag downtown ain't got nothin' better to do than make idiots like us work late on a friday night, right?
SPENGLER: yo.
FIRST COP: okay, boys, take it easy.
SPENGLER: you were supposed to help me with this.
VENKMAN: you need the exercise.
STANTZ: wow! it's an old airshaft. it just goes forever.
SPENGLER: very intense. we need a deeper reading. somebody has to go down there.
STANTZ: thanks, boys.
STANTZ: keep going -- more -- more --

STANTZ: lower -- lower -- gee, this really is deep. 
STANTZ: hold it! steady!

STANTZ: this is it, boys, the end of the line. van horne station. the old new york pneumatic. 
SPENGLER: the new york pneumatic railway. it was an experimental subway system. fan-forced air-trains, built around 1870.
STANTZ: this is about as deep as you can go under manhattan without digging your own hole.
SPENGLER: what's the reading?

SUPERVISOR: okay, what's the story here? 
VENKMAN: what, i got time for this? we got three thousand phones out in the village and about eight million miles of cable to check.
SUPERVISOR: the phone lines are over there. venkman pops spengler on the head.
VENKMAN: i told ya!
STANTZ: help! help! pull me up! it's alive! it's eating my boots.
FIRST COP: you ain't with con ed or the phone company. we checked. tell me another one. venkman stares at the cop for a long moment.
VENKMAN: gas leak?

DANA: janosz? 
JANOSZ: hello, dana. i happened to be in the neighborhood and i thought i'd stop by to see if everything's all right with you -- you know, with the blackout and everything? are you okay? is the baby all right?
DANA: we're fine, janosz.
JANOSZ: do you need anything? you want me to come in?
DANA: no, everything's fine. honestly. thanks anyway.
JANOSZ: okay, just thought i'd check. good night, dana. sleep well. don't let the bedbugs bite you.
DANA: good night, janosz.

JUDGE: i want to make one thing very clear before we go any further. the law does not recognize the existence of ghosts, and i don't believe in them either, so i don't want to hear a lot of malarkey about goblins and spooks and demons. we're going to stick to the facts in this case and save the ghost stories for the kiddies. understood? 
DEFENSE TABLE: stantz leans over and whispers to spengler.
STANTZ: seems like a pretty open-minded guy, huh?
SPENGLER: his nickname is "the hammer."
LOUIS: i think you're making a big mistake here, fellas. i do mostly tax law and some probate stuff occasionally. i got my law degree at night school.
STANTZ: that's all right. we got arrested at night.

DANA: i wish i could stay. i feel personally responsible for you being here. 
VENKMAN: you are personally responsible. if i can get conjugal rights, will you visit me at sing sing?
DANA: please don't say that. you won't go to prison.
VENKMAN: don't worry about me. i'm like a cat.
DANA: you mean you cough up hairballs all over the rug?
VENKMAN: i'm el gato. i always land on my feet.
DANA: good luck.
VENKMAN: thanks.

HARDEMEYER: how are you doing, hon? just put these guys away fast and make sure they go away for a long, long time. 
PROSECUTOR: it shouldn't be hard with this list of charges.
HARDEMEYER: good. very good. the mayor and future governor won't forget this.

HARDEMEYER: nice going, venkman. violating a judicial restraining order, willful destruction of public property, fraud, malicious mischief -- smooth move. see you in a couple years -- at your first parole hearing. 
LOUIS: gee, the whole city's against us. i think i'm going to be sick.
PROSECUTOR: mr. fianella, please look at exhibits a through on the table over there. do you recognize that equipment?

CON ED: that's the stuff the cops found in their truck. 
WITNESS STAND: she continues.
PROSECUTOR: do you know what this equipment is used for?
CON ED: i don't know. catching ghosts, i guess.
PROSECUTOR: may i remind the court that the defendants are under a judicial restraining order that specifically forbids them from performing services as paranormal investigators and eliminators.
JUDGE: so noted.
PROSECUTOR: now, mr. fianella, can you identify the substance in the jar on the table marked exhibit f?

CON ED: i been working underground for con ed for 27 years and i never saw anything like that in my life. we checked out that tunnel the next day and we didn't find nothing. if it was down there, they must have put it there. 
DEFENSE TABLE: venkman and spengler look at stantz.
STANTZ: hey, i didn't imagine it. there must have been ten thousand gallons of it down there.
SPENGLER: it may be ebbing and flowing from some tidal source.
LOUIS: should i say that?
SPENGLER: i doubt that they'd believe us.

LOUIS: so like you were just trying to help out your old friend because she was scared and you didn't really mean to do anything bad and you really love the city and won't ever do anything like this again, right? 
PROSECUTOR: objection, your honor. he's leading the witness.
JUDGE: the witness is leading him. sustained.
LOUIS: okay, let me rephrase that question. didn't you once coach a basketball team for underprivileged children?
VENKMAN: yes, i did. we were city champs.
PROSECUTOR: objection. irrelevant and immaterial.
JUDGE: sustained. mr. tully, do you have anything to ask this witness that may have some bearing on this case?
LOUIS: do i?
VENKMAN: no, i think you've helped them enough already.
LOUIS: no, i guess not. your witness.
PROSECUTOR: so, dr. venkman, please explain to the court why it is you and your co-defendants took it upon yourselves to dig a big hole in the middle of the street.
VENKMAN: seventy-seventh and first avenue has so many holes already we didn't think anyone would notice.
JUDGE: keep that up, mister, and i'll find you in contempt.
VENKMAN: sorry, your honor, but when somebody sets me up like that i can't resist.
PROSECUTOR: i'll ask you again, dr. venkman. why were you digging the hole? and please remember that you're under oath.
VENKMAN: i had my fingers crossed when they swore me in, but i'm going to tell you the truth. there are things in this world that go way beyond human understanding, things that can't be explained and that most people don't want to know about anyway. that's where we come in.
PROSECUTOR: so what are you saying? that the world of the supernatural is your special province?
VENKMAN: no, i guess i'm just saying that happens and somebody has to deal with it.

JUDGE: does the counsel for the defense wish to make any final arguements? louis rises. 
LOUIS: your honor, may i approach the bench?
JUDGE: yes.
LOUIS: can i have some of your water?
JUDGE: get on with it, counselor!
SPENGLER: way to go. concise and to the point.
JUDGE: he stares at louis, astonished at his summation.
JUDGE: that's it? that's all you have to say?
LOUIS: did i forget something?
JUDGE: that was unquestionably the worst
STANTZ: he sees the activity in the jar
STANTZ: uh-oh, she's twitchin'.
THE BENCH: the judge continues
JUDGE: and on a more personal note, let me go on record as saying that there is no place in decent society for fakes, charlatans and tricksters like you who prey on the gullibility of innocent people. you're beneath the contempt of this court. and believe me, if my hands were not tied by the unalterable fetters of the law, a law which has become in my view far too permissive and inadequate in it's standards of punishment, i would invoke the tradition of our illustrious forebearers, reach back to a sterner, purer justice and have you burned at the stake!

DEFENSE TABLE: stantz anticipates big trouble. 
STANTZ: under the table, boys!
LOUIS: he stands up and looks around fearfully.

JUDGE: you've got to do something! 
VENKMAN: who are they?
JUDGE: they're the scoleri brothers. i tried them for murder. they were electrocuted up at ossining in '48. now they want to kill me.
VENKMAN: maybe they just want to appeal.

VENKMAN: these boys aren't playing around. 
JUDGE: you've got to stop them. please!
LOUIS: violating a judicial restraining order could expose my clients to serious criminal penalties. as their attorney i'd have to advise them against it.
SCOLERI BROTHERS: they start punching through the jury box.
JUDGE: he is just about hysterical with fear.
JUDGE: all right! all right! i'm recinding the order. case dismissed!! now do something!
STANTZ: let's go to work, boys.
VENKMAN: geez, i forgot how heavy these things are.
STANTZ: okay, let's heat 'em up!
STANTZ: all right, throwers. set for full neutronas on stream.

VENKMAN: hey! why don't you pick on someone your own size? 
VENKMAN: spengs, take the door. ray, let's try and work them down and into the corner.
STANTZ: watch it! i'm coming under you, pete.
STANTZ: steady -- watch your streams -- easy now -- venky, bring him left -- spengy, pull him down -- trapping -- trapping -- now!

LOUIS: what is it, honey? 
JANINE: it's that darn ghost again! i don't know what to do anymore. he just won't leave us alone. i guess we'll just have to move.
LOUIS: don't worry. we're not moving. he is.
JANINE: who are you going to call?
LOUIS: ghostbusters.
GHOSTBUSTERS: stantz speaks directly to the camera.
STANTZ: i'm ray --
VENKMAN: i'm peter --
SPENGLER: i'm egon --
STANTZ: and we're the ...
ALL: ghostbusters.
STANTZ: that's right -- ghostbusters. we're back and we're better than ever with twice the know-how and twice the particle-power to deal with all your supernatural elimination needs.
STANTZ: careful, winston. he's a mean one.
STANTZ: and to celebrate our grand reopening, we're giving you twice the value with our special half-price 'welcome back' service plan.
VENKMAN: hold on, ray! half-price! have you gone crazy?
STANTZ: i guess so, pete, because that's not all. tell them what else we've got, egon.
SPENGLER: you mean the ghostbusters hot beverage
STANTZ: you bet.

STANTZ: so don't wait another minute. make your 
ALL: -- ready to believe you.

VENKMAN: you know he ran that last lap in under six minutes? 
STANTZ: if he wasn't dead he'd be an olympic prospect.

LOUIS: his eyes light up and he stomps the foot pedal. 
LOUIS: gotcha!

VENKMAN: i'm looking for dana barrett. 
SECURITY GUARD: room 304 -- restorations. hey! dr. venkman -- 'world of the psychic.' i'm a big, big fan. that used to be one of my two favorite shows.
VENKMAN: thanks. what's the other one?
SECURITY GUARD: 'bass masters.' it's a fishing show. ever see it?
VENKMAN: yeah, really great. take it easy.

VENKMAN: so this is what you do, huh? 
DANA: oh, hello, peter.
VENKMAN: you're really good, you know.
DANA: i didn't paint it. i'm just cleaning it. it's an original ver meer. it's worth about ten million dollars.
VIGO: he turns his head and watches venkman and dana.

VENKMAN: you know you can go to art world and get these huge sofa-size paintings for about forty-five bucks. 
DANA: i'm sure you didn't come here just to talk about art.
VENKMAN: as a matter of fact, i stopped by to tell you that i haven't forgotten your problem and that we're still on the case.
JANOSZ: dana, aren't you going to introduce me to your friend?
DANA: oh, i'm sorry. this is peter venkman. peter, janosz poha.
JANOSZ: pleasure to meet you. i've seen you on television.
VENKMAN: how are you? what's that you're working on, johnny?
JANOSZ: it's a painting i'm restoring for the new byzantine exhibition. it's a self-portrait of prince vigo, the carpathian. he ruled most of carpathia and moldavia in the 17th century.
VENKMAN: too bad for the moldavians.
JANOSZ: he was a very powerful magician. a genius in many ways and quite a skilled painter.
DANA: he was also a lunatic and a genocidal madman. i hate this painting. i've felt very uncomfortable since they brought it up from storage.
VENKMAN: yeah, it's not the kind of thing you'd want to hang in the rec room. you know what it needs? a fluffy little white kitten in the corner.
JANOSZ: we don't go around altering valuable paintings, dr. venkman.
VENKMAN: well, i'd make an exception in this case if i were you. dana looks disapprovingly at venkman.
VENKMAN: i'll let you get back to it. nice meeting you.
JANOSZ: my pleasure. venkman and dana cross back to her workspace.
VENKMAN: i may be wrong, but i think you've got a little crush on this guy.
DANA: good-bye, peter.
VENKMAN: i'd like to stay, but i really don't have time to hang around here. i'll call you. later, johnny!

STANTZ: oh good, you're here. spengler and i have something really amazing to show you. 
VENKMAN: and now you're going to eat it?
STANTZ: no, i'm just restoring it to its normal state.
STANTZ: now watch this.
STANTZ: you worthless piece of slime!! you ignorant disgusting blob!!

STANTZ: you foul, obnoxious muck!! 
STANTZ: he continues venting his rage on the slime.
STANTZ: i've seen some real crud in my time, but you're a chemical disgrace!!

VENKMAN: this is what you do with your spare time? 
STANTZ: this is an incredible breakthrough, venkman. a psychoreactive substance! whatever this is, it clearly responds to human emotional states.
VENKMAN: 'mood slime.' we ought to bottle this stuff and sell it.
SPENGLER: we've found it at every event site we've been to lately.
WINSTON: you mean this stuff actually feeds on 'bad vibes'?
STANTZ: like a goat on garbage.
STANTZ: we're running tests to see if we can get an equally strong positive reaction.
VENKMAN: what kind of tests?
STANTZ: well, we sing to it, we talk to it, we say supportive, nurturing things --
VENKMAN: you're not sleeping with this stuff, are you? spengler reacts as if he might be.
STANTZ: it really responds to music. let's calm it down.
SPECIMEN: it stops bubbling and starts to shrink.
WINSTON: does it have any favorites?
STANTZ: it likes all the sappy stuff: 'cumbaya,' 'everything is beautiful,' 'it's a small world' -- but it loves jackie wilson.
STANTZ: watch this.

VENKMAN: i don't care what you say. this could be a major christmas gift item. 
WINSTON: right, and the first time someone gets mad, their toaster will eat their hand.
VENKMAN: so we'll put a warning on the label.
VENKMAN: go ahead. i dare you.
VENKMAN: just kidding.

DANA: i'm sorry. were you on your way out? 
VENKMAN: no, i just got in -- a couple hours ago. come on in. are we having a pajama party?
DANA: peter, the bathtub tried to eat oscar.
VENKMAN: you know, if anyone else told me that, i'd have serious doubts. but coming from you, i can't honestly say i'm surprised.
DANA: i must be losing my mind. at the museum today i could have sworn that terrible painting of vigo looked right at me.
VENKMAN: who could blame him? were you wearing this nightgown?
DANA: i don't know what to do anymore.
VENKMAN: i'll get ray and egon to check out the bathtub. you better stay here.
VENKMAN: now this kid has a serious problem.
VENKMAN: this is joe namath's old number, you know. you could get a lot of chicks with this.
DANA: peter, what about the bathtub?
VENKMAN: we'll take care of that. ray, pete. listen, get over to dana's right away ... her bathtub pulled a fast one -- tried to eat the kid.
DANA: it was full of this awful pink ooze.
VENKMAN: sounds like another slime job ... no, they're all right. they're here now ... right ... let me know.
VENKMAN: they're going over there right now. you might as well make yourself at home. let me show you around. this is the cuisine de maison --
VENKMAN: bathroom's right here -- let me just tidy up a few things.
DANA: peter, this is very nice, but you don't have to do any of this, you know.
VENKMAN: the shower works but it's a little tricky. they're both marked "hot." it takes a little practice, but at least this one won't try and eat you.
VENKMAN: be careful on that sofa -- it's a butt-biter. but the bed's good and i just changed the sheets so if you get tired, feel free. in fact, i think you should definitely plan on spending the night here.
DANA: really? and how would we handle the sleeping arrangements?
VENKMAN: for me it's best if i sleep on my side and you spoon up right behind me with your arms around me. if we go the other way i'm afraid your hair will be getting in my face all night.
DANA: how about you on the sofa and me in bed with the baby.
VENKMAN: or we could do that.
DANA: thank you. poor baby. i think i should put him down now.
VENKMAN: i'll put him down for you. you are way too short! and your belly-button sticks out! you're nothing but a burden to your poor mother!

VENKMAN: did you find anything at dana's? 
STANTZ: nothing. just some mood-slime residue in
VENKMAN: a hundred and five years? he really hung on, didn't he.
STANTZ: and he didn't die of old age either. he was poisoned, stabbed, shot, hung, stretched, disemboweled, drawn and quartered.
WINSTON: i guess he wasn't too popular at the end there.
SPENGLER: no, not exactly a man of the people. "also known as vigo the cruel, vigo the torturer, vigo the despised, and vigo the unholy."
STANTZ: this guy was a bad monkey. he dabbled in all the black arts, and listen to this prophecy. just before his head died, his last words were, "death is but a door, time is but a window. i'll be back."
VENKMAN: that's it? "i'll be back?"
SPENGLER: it's a rough translation from the moldavian.

RUDY: hey, dr. venkman. what's going on? 
VENKMAN: we're just going up to restorations for a minute.
RUDY: oh, i can't let you do that. mr. poha told me not to let you up there anymore.
VENKMAN: okay, we were trying to keep this quiet but i think you can be trusted. tell him, ray.
STANTZ: mister, you have an ecto-paritic, subfusionary flux in this building.
RUDY: we got a flux?
WINSTON: you got a flux and a half.
STANTZ: now if you don't want to be the -- -- fifth person ever to die in meta-shock from a planar rift, i suggest you get down behind that desk and don't move until we give you the signal "stabilize -- all clear."

JANOSZ: dr. venkman? dana is not here. 
VENKMAN: i know.
JANOSZ: then why have you come?
VENKMAN: we got a major creep alert and we're just going down the list. your name was first.
STANTZ: let's sweep it, boys.
VENKMAN: you know, i never got to ask you. where you from, johnny?
JANOSZ: the upper west side.
SPENGLER: this entire room is extremely hot, peter.
JANOSZ: what exactly are you looking for, dr. venkman?
VENKMAN: we'll know when we find it. you just sit tight. this won't take long.

VENKMAN: this is the one that looked at dana. 
JANOSZ: it must be the chemical fumes in the studio. people start imagining things --
VENKMAN: i'm going to rule out the glue-sniffing theory. if she says it looked at her, it looked at her. hey, you! vigie! look at me. i'm talking to you. hey! look at me when i'm talking to you.
VIGO: his eyes stare lifelessly into the distance.
STANTZ AND VENKMAN: venkman starts shooting polaroids of vigo.
VENKMAN: beautiful, beautiful. work with me, baby. just have fun with it. okay, he's playing it cool. let's finish up and get out of here.
STANTZ: i'll get one more reading.

WINSTON: now that's one ugly dude. 
STANTZ: huh? what?
WINSTON: you finished here?
STANTZ: what? yeah.
WINSTON: are you all right? you coming down with something?
STANTZ: no, i'm fine. i just got light-headed for a second there. let's go. they head for the door.
JANOSZ: he escorts the ghostbusters to the door.
JANOSZ: so you see, everything is in order, is it not?
VENKMAN: not. don't leave town and report any change in your address to the proper authorities. we'll be back. they exit.

SPENGLER: there's definitely something going on in that studio. the pke levels were max-plus and the giga-meter was showing all red. 
WINSTON: i'd put my money on that vigo character.
VENKMAN: yeah, that's a safe bet. you and spengman see what else you can dig up on vigo and this little weasel poha.

WINSTON: going a little fast, aren't we, ray? 
STANTZ: are you telling me how to drive?
WINSTON: no, i just thought --
STANTZ: well don't think!

WINSTON: are you crazy, man? you're going to kill somebody! 
STANTZ: no, i'm going to kill everybody!

STANTZ: what happened? 
VENKMAN: you just picked up three penalty points on your driver's license.
WINSTON: are you all right?
STANTZ: yeah, i guess so. it was the strangest thing. i knew what i was doing but i couldn't stop. this really terrible feeling came over me and -- i don't know -- i just felt like driving into that tree and ending it all. whew! sorry, boys.
VENKMAN: watch him, egon. don't even let him shave.

VENKMAN: i'm home! 
VENKMAN: are you all squeaky clean now?
VENKMAN: nothing. they stayed there all night, went through your personal stuff, made a bunch of long-distance phone calls and cleaned out your refrigerator. and didn't find anything.
DANA: they didn't find anything? in the bathtub ... the pink ooze ... nothing? so, what do i do now?
VENKMAN: now you get dressed and we go out. i got a babysitter and everything. trust me, you need it.
DANA: i'm not here to date. i can't leave oscar in a strange place with someone i don't know.
VENKMAN: it's janine melnitz, from my staff. she's one of my most valuable employees.
DANA: does she know anything about babies?
VENKMAN: janine melnitz, are you kidding? do i have a vase? i brought some of your clothes. wear something intriguing. i brought along some interesting possibilities.
DANA: okay, but it's not a date. it's a dinner.
VENKMAN: did you happen to see some shirts on the floor in here?

VENKMAN: i have a hamper? next time ask me first, okay. i have more than two grades of laundry. there're lots of subtle levels between clean and dirty. 
VENKMAN: these aren't so bad yet. you just hang them up for a while and they're fine.

LOUIS: he spots slimer through the rearview mirror. 
LOUIS: okay, let's boogie!

LOUIS: oh migod! i'm sorry. i didn't mean to do that. it was an accident. 
JANINE: what are you doing up here?
LOUIS: i was trying to get that smelly green thing. the guys asked me to help out. i'm like the fifth ghostbuster.
JANINE: why would you want to be a ghostbuster if you're already an accountant?
LOUIS: oh, no, it's just if one of the guys calls in sick or gets hurt.
JANINE: have you made any plans yet? you know tomorrow is new year's eve.
LOUIS: no, i celebrate at the beginning of my corporate tax year which is march first.
JANINE: that's very practical. i hate going out on new year's eve, too.
JANINE: well, good night, louis.
LOUIS: janine, do you feel like maybe getting something to eat on the way home?
JANINE: i'd like to, but i told dr. venkman i'd babysit. do you want to babysit with me?
LOUIS: oh, sure, that sounds great.

VENKMAN: don't tell me, let me guess. all-you-can-eat barbecue rib night at the sizzler? 
STANTZ: we're going down into the sewer system to see if we can trace the source of the psycho-reactive slime flow. we thought you might want to come along.
VENKMAN: darn it! i wish i'd known you were going.
SPENGLER: you know, animals and lower life forms often anticipate major disasters. given the new magnetheric readings we could see a tremendous breeding surge in the cockroach population.
VENKMAN: roach breeding? sounds better and better. dana? the boys are going down under the sewers tonight to look for slime. egon thinks there might even be some kind of big roach-breeding surge. should we forget about dinner and go with them instead?
STANTZ: wow.
DANA: hi.
VENKMAN: i think we're going to have to pass on the sewer trip, boys. let me know what you find out.
STANTZ: okay, but you're missing all the fun.

STANTZ: this is it. van horne station. right where the old transit map said it would be. 
STANTZ: let's get a sounding on the depth of that flow.
STANTZ: stand back.
SPENGLER: six feet -- seven -- eight --
STANTZ: that's it. it's on the bottom.
SPENGLER: nine feet -- ten --
WINSTON: is the line sinking?
SPENGLER: no, the slime is rising.

VENKMAN: here's to -- us. 
VENKMAN: so -- are you making any new year's resolutions?
DANA: i want to stop getting involved with men who aren't good for me.
VENKMAN: does that start exactly at midnight tomorrow, or could you hold off for a few days maybe?
DANA: for one night in your life, do you think it's possible for us to be completely real?
VENKMAN: all right, you want to be real? so tell me why did you dump me?
DANA: oh, peter, i didn't dump you. i just had to protect myself. you really weren't very good for me, you know.
VENKMAN: i'm not even good for me.
DANA: why do you say things like that? you're so much better than you know.
VENKMAN: thank you. if i had that kind of support on a daily basis, i could definitely shape up by the turn of the century.
DANA: so why don't you give me a jingle in the year 2000?
VENKMAN: let me jingle you right now.
DANA: maybe i should call janine.
VENKMAN: don't worry. janine has a very special way with children. they kiss.

JANINE: i can't believe a person could actually live like this. 
LOUIS: so these dwarfs had a limited partnership in a small mining operation and then one day a beautiful princess came to live with them.
JANINE: it's really not a bad place. it just needs a woman's touch.
JANINE: you're really good with children, louis. i can tell. why don't you come here and sit with me?
LOUIS: okay.
JANINE: motherhood is a very natural instinct for me. i'd like to have a baby myself.
LOUIS: tonight?

WINSTON: nice going, ray! what were you trying to do -- drown me? 
STANTZ: look, zeddemore, it wasn't my fault you were too stupid to drop that line.
WINSTON: you better watch your mouth, man, or i'll punch your lights out.
STANTZ: oh yeah? anytime, anytime. just go ahead and try it.
SPENGLER: if you two are looking for a fight, you got one. who wants it first? come on, ray. try me,
WINSTON: what are we doing? ray, i was ready to kill you.
STANTZ: don't you see? it's the slime. that stuff is like pure, concentrated evil.
SPENGLER: and it's all flowing right to this spot.

MAITRE D': can i help you? 
STANTZ: that's all right, i see him.

STANTZ: you should've been there, venkman. 
VENKMAN: yeah, sorry i missed it. i guess you guys didn't know about the dress code here. it's really kind of a coat and tie place.
STANTZ: it's all over the city, pete -- well, under it actually.
WINSTON: rivers of the stuff!
SPENGLER: and it's all flowing toward the museum.
STANTZ: sorry!
DANA: maybe we should discuss this somewhere else.
VENKMAN: boys, listen. you're scaring the straights.
SPENGLER: this won't wait until tomorrow, venkman.

MAITRE D': arrest these men. 
COP: hey! it's the ghostbusters. you're out of uniform, gentlemen stantz suddenly realizes how ridiculous they look.
STANTZ: uh -- well -- we had a little accident, but forget that. we have to see the mayor as soon as possible.
COP: look, doc, why don't you just go home.
STANTZ: we're not going anywhere with you. i told you we have to see the mayor now.
COP: i'm warning you. you can come along peaceably or --
VENKMAN: hey, don't be an this is serious.
COP: look, pal, keep this up and you're going with them.
VENKMAN: oh, yeah?

SPENGLER: look, we're not drunk and we're not crazy. this is a matter of vital importance. 
COP: what are you doing?
VENKMAN: i just want to get your names right for when the mayor asks us why we didn't let him know about this sooner.
COP: okay, doc. you want to see the mayor, you got it. follow us.

LOUIS: oh, hello, dana. we were just -- we were -- 
DANA: i know what you were doing, louis. it's all right.
JANINE: how was your date?
DANA: typical. peter was arrested. has he called?
LOUIS: no, nobody called.
DANA: is everything all right with oscar?
JANINE: oh, he's fine. he's such a good baby. he was a little fussy at first, but we gave him a freach bread pizza and he went right to sleep.
DANA: oh, good. i'll just check on him.

LOUIS: should we go? 
JANINE: i don't think we should leave her alone.
LOUIS: you're right. we should stay.

VIGO: i, vigo, the scourge of carpathia -- 
JANOSZ: yes, the scourge --
VIGO: -- the sorrow of moldavia --
JANOSZ: -- the sorrow --
VIGO: i command you.
JANOSZ: i await the word of vigo.

MAYOR: all right -- the ghostbusters. i'll tell you right now; i've got two hundred of the heaviest campaign contributors in the city out there eating bad roast chicken waiting for me to give the speech of my life. you've got two minutes. make it good. 
STANTZ: you get enough negative energy flowing in a dense environment like manhattan, it starts to build up, and if we don't do something fast this whole place will blow like a frog on a hotplate.
WINSTON: tell him about the toaster.
VENKMAN: i don't think he's ready for the toaster.
MAYOR: being miserable and treating other people like dirt is every new yorker's god-given right. what am i supposed to do -- go on television and tell eight million people they have to be nice to each other? i'm sorry, none of this makes any sense to me, and if anything does happen we've got plenty of paid professionals to deal with it. your two minutes are up. good night, gentlemen.
HARDEMEYER: that's quite a story.
VENKMAN: yeah, i think the times might be interested, don't you? the post might have a lot of fun with it, too. hardemeyer's eyes go cold and calculating.
HARDEMEYER: before you go running to the newspapers with this, would you consider telling this slime thing to some people downtown?
VENKMAN: now you're talking.

WINSTON: i'm telling you, we're not crazy. he is! 
HARDEMEYER: he laughs off the remark.
HARDEMEYER: the mayor wants them kept under strict observation for a few days. we think they're seriously disturbed and potentially dangerous.
PSYCHIATRIST: we'll do whatever's necessary.

DANA: you know you really don't have to stay. 
LOUIS: oh no, we don't mind.
DANA: excuse me. i think oscar is up.

DANA: she watches in helpless horror. 
DANA: no!!

DANA: louis, you have to find peter and tell him what happened. 
LOUIS: where're you going?
DANA: to get my baby back.

STANTZ: we think the spirit of vigo the carpathian is alive in a painting at the manhattan museum. 
PSYCHIATRIST: i see. and are there any other paintings in the museum with bad spirits in them?
PSYCHIATRIST: yes, tell me about the slime.
WINSTON: it's potent stuff. we made a toaster dance with it, then a bathtub tried to eat his friend's baby. the psychiatrist looks at venkman.
VENKMAN: don't look at me. i think they're nuts.

JANOSZ: i knew you would come. 
DANA: what do you want with my baby?
JANOSZ: no harm will come to the child. you might even say it's a privilege. he will be the vessel for the spirit of vigo. and you -- well, you will be the mother of the ruler of the world. doesn't that sound nice?
DANA: if this is what the world will be like, i don't want to live in it.
DANA: everybody has a choice.
JANOSZ: not in this case, my dear. take a look. that's not gainsborough's blue boy up there. he's vigo!
DANA: i don't care who he is. he's not taking my baby.

VENKMAN: it better not start yet. i'm trying to finish my potholder before lunch. 
WINSTON: you think all those predictions about the
PATIENT: 1997. my dog told me.
VENKMAN: what kind of dog?
PATIENT: labrador.
VENKMAN: habitual liars. they can't help it. it's in the breed.

LOUIS: come on, sherm. you're my cousin. do this for me. i'm begging you. 
SHERMAN: i can't do it, louis. it isn't ethical. i could lose my license.
LOUIS: why can't you just have them released?
SHERMAN: i'm a dermatologist. i can't write orders on the psych ward.
LOUIS: sherman, i've done lots of favors for you.
SHERMAN: like what?
LOUIS: i got you out of those bad tax shelters.
SHERMAN: you were the one who got me in.
LOUIS: i fixed you up with diane troxler and she put out, didn't she?
SHERMAN: yeah, i had to give her free dermabrasion for a year. forget it, louis. i could get in a lot of trouble.
LOUIS: i'm telling you, we're all going to be in big trouble if we don't do something fast. that ghost guy came and took my friend's baby and we got to get it back. it's just a scared little baby, sherm.
SHERMAN: then you should go to the police. i don't believe in any of that stuff. sherman looks out the window.

WOMAN: i told you we should have stayed in palm beach. the weather here gets stranger every year. 
MAN: yes, dear.
WOMAN: she yelps in pain.
WOMAN: something just bit me!

DETECTIVE ONE: look, lady, of course there are dead people there. it's a cemetery ... they were asking you for directions? 
SERGEANT: manhattan central, flaherty speaking ... yeah ... yeah? ... what? who is this? ... wait a second.
SERGEANT: lieutenant, i think you better talk to this guy.
LIEUTENANT: what is it? i'm talkin' here!
SERGEANT: it's some dock supervisor down at pier 34 on the hudson. the guy's going nuts.
LIEUTENANT: what's the problem?
SERGEANT: he says the titanic just arrived.

STANTZ: good work, louis. how did you get us out? 
LOUIS: oh, i pulled a few strings. i wouldn't want to say any more than that. louis winks conspiratorially at sherman.
LOUIS: this is my cousin sherman. sherm, say hello to the ghostbusters. i promised him a ride in the car if he got you out.
SHERMAN: hi, it's really great to meet you guys. i know this sounds weird but once i had a dream that my grandfather was standing at the foot of my bed, but i knew it was impossible because he died and he started to tell me that --
LOUIS: hey! wait! okay, i'll meet you there.
SHERMAN: i thought you were like the fifth ghostbuster.
LOUIS: i let them handle all the little stuff. i just come in on the big ones.

LOUIS: actually, they still think you're crazy, but i convinced them you're not dangerous. 
VENKMAN: yeah, well guess again.

LOUIS: i brought everything you asked for and i gassed up the car with super unleaded. it cost twenty cents more than regular unleaded but you get much better performance and in an old car like this that'll end up saving you money in the long run. i put it on my credit card, so you can either reimburse me or i can take it out of petty cash -- 
LOUIS: hey! wait! okay, i'll meet you there.

STANTZ: it looks like a giant jello mold. 
VENKMAN: i hate jello.
STANTZ: okay, give it a rest, captain. we'll take it from here.
FIRE CAPTAIN: be my guest. we been cutting here for three hours. what the hell's going on? you know the titanic arrived this morning?
VENKMAN: well, better late than never.
SPENGLER: full neutronas, maser assist.
STANTZ: throw 'em!
VENKMAN: okay, who knows "cumbaya?"
VENKMAN: all right. nice and sweet -- cumbaya, milord, cumbaya --
STANTZ: forget it. the vienna boys choir couldn't get through this stuff.
VENKMAN: good effort. now what? should we say supportive, nurturing things to it, ray?
SPENGLER: it won't work. there's no way we could generate enough positive energy to crack that shell.
STANTZ: i can't believe things have gotten so bad in this city that there's no way back. sure, it's crowded, it's dirty, it's noisy. and there are too many people who'd just as soon step on your face as look at you. but there've got to be a few sparks of sweet humanity left in this burned-out burg. we just have to mobilize it.
SPENGLER: we need something that everyone can get behind, a symbol --
STANTZ: something that appeals to the best in each and every one of us --
SPENGLER: something good --
VENKMAN: and pure --
WINSTON: and decent.

HARDEMEYER: look, i've had it with you. get your stuff together, get back in that clown car and get out of here. this is a city matter and everything's under control. 
VENKMAN: oh, you think so? well, i've got news for you. you've got dracula's brother-in-law in there and he's got my girlfriend and her kid. around about midnight tonight, when you're partying uptown, this guy's going to come to life and start doing amateur head transplants. and that's just round one.
MAYOR: are you telling me there're people trapped in there?
HARDEMEYER: this is dynamite. call a.p., u.p.i., and c.n.n. and get them down here right away. when the police bring this kid out i want them to hand it right to the mayor and i want it all on camera.
STANTZ: mr. mayor, if we don't do something by midnight, you're going to go down in history as the man who let new york get sucked down into the tenth level of hell. the mayor stops to consider the situation.
MAYOR: can you get into that museum?
FIRE CAPTAIN: if i had a nuclear warhead, maybe.
MAYOR: you know why all these things are happening?
VENKMAN: we tried to tell you last night, but mr. hard-on over here packed us off to the loony bin. hardemeyer flips out.
HARDEMEYER: this is preposterous! you can't seriously believe all this mumbo-jumbo! it's the twentieth century, for crying out loud! look, mister, i don't know what this stuff is or how you got it all over the museum, but you better get it off and i mean right now!
MAYOR: okay, just tell me what you need.

VENKMAN: kind of makes you wonder, doesn't it? 
WINSTON: wonder what?
VENKMAN: if she's naked under that toga. she's french, you know.
SPENGLER: there's nothing under that toga but 300 tons of iron and steel. stantz is looking worried.
STANTZ: i hope we have enough stuff to do the job.
VENKMAN: only one way to find out. ready, teddy?

JANINE: i'm not sure this is such a good idea? do they know you're doing this? 
LOUIS: oh, yeah, sure -- no. but there's really not much to do here and they might need some back-up at the museum.
JANINE: you're very brave, louis. good luck.
LOUIS: uh -- oh -- well, i better hurry.

STANTZ: he plugs the main cable lead into a transformer. 
STANTZ: it's all yours, pete. there's not much time left.
VENKMAN: okay, one, two, three, four --

STANTZ: she's moving! 
WINSTON: i've lived in new york all my life and i never visited the statue of liberty. now i finally get here and we're taking her out for a walk.
SPENGLER: we've got full power.
VENKMAN: okay, libby. let's get it in gear.

WINSTON: how deep does it get? that water's cold and i can't swim. 
VENKMAN: it's okay. i have my senior lifesaving card.
SPENGLER: with a water temperature of forty degrees we'd survive approximately fifteen minutes. stantz studies a maritime navigational chart.
STANTZ: i'll keep to the middle of the channel. we're okay to 59th street, then we'll go ashore and take first avenue to 79th.
VENKMAN: are you kidding? we'll hit all that bridge traffic at 59th. i'm going to take 72nd straight up to fifth. trust me, i used to drive a cab.

JANOSZ: time is running out, dana. soon it will be midnight and the city will be mine -- and vigo's. well, mainly vigo's. but we have a spectacular opportunity to make the best of our relationship. 
DANA: we don't have a relationship.
JANOSZ: i know. marry me, dana, and together we will raise vigo as our son. there are many perks that come with being the mother of a living i'm sure he will supply for us a magnificent apartment. and perhaps a car and free parking.
DANA: i hate and despise you and everything you stand for with all my heart and soul. i could never forgive what you've done to me and my child.
JANOSZ: many marriages begin with a certain amount of distance, but after a while i believe we could learn to love each other. think about it.
DANA: i'd rather not.

SPENGLER: it's working. the positive gev's are climbing. 
VENKMAN: they love you, lib. keep it up.

VENKMAN: so far so good. 
SPENGLER: i'm worried. the vibrations could shake her to pieces. we should have padded her feet.
STANTZ: i don't think they make nikes in her size.
VENKMAN: we're almost there, lib. step on it.

STANTZ: my fault! 
VENKMAN: she's new in town.

VENKMAN: happy new year. 
SPENGLER: hi there. feel free to try something stupid.
JANOSZ: you pitiful, miserable creatures! you dare to challenge the power of darkness? don't you realize what you are dealing with? he's vigo! you are like the buzzing of flies to him.

STANTZ: vigi, vigi, vigi -- you have been a bad little monkey. 
VENKMAN: the whole city's together on this one. we took a vote. everybody's down on you, you know.
WINSTON: say goodnight now.
SPENGLER: don't shoot! you'll hit ray!
STANTZ: do it! just do it!

SPENGLER: he's breathing. 
WINSTON: ray -- ray -- how do you feel, man?
STANTZ: groovy. i've never felt better in my life.
VENKMAN: oh, no. we've got to live with this?
STANTZ: i love you guys. you're the best friends i've ever had.
VENKMAN: hey, i just had this suit cleaned. take care of the wiggler, will you.
VENKMAN: what is this -- a love in? hey, sailor. i think the tattoos are a little much, don't you?
DANA: i think he likes you. i think i do too.
VENKMAN: finally came to your senses, huh?

JANOSZ: what happened? 
STANTZ: sir, you had a violent, prolonged, transformative psychic episode. but it's over now. want a coffee?
JANOSZ: that's very kind of you.
SPENGLER: he's fine, ray. physically intact, psychomagnetherically neutral.
JANOSZ: is that good?
WINSTON: it's where you want to be.
SPENGLER: late renaissance, i think. caravaggio or brunelleschi.
WINSTON: there's something very familiar about this painting.

LOUIS: am i too late? 
STANTZ: no, you're right on time.

VENKMAN: she's all right. she's just sleeping it off. 
MAYOR: we just had it restored.
VENKMAN: this probably isn't a good time to bring this up, but the last time we did a job for the city you stiffed us.
STANTZ: this is a bill for tonight's job.
MAYOR: what! this is way too much. we won't pay.
VENKMAN: i think she looks pretty good here, don't you?
STANTZ: yeah, and a lot easier to get to than that island. realizing he has no alternative, the mayor sighs and takes the bill back.
MAYOR: all right, all right. if you can wait until monday i'll issue you a check.
SPENGLER: sorry. no checks. company policy.

VENKMAN: pretty impressive, huh? 
SPENGLER: it's probably the first thing my grandparents saw when they came to this country.
VENKMAN: from where -- neptune?
SPENGLER: they came from ostrov in eastern poland.
VENKMAN: ostrov? i've been there. good party town.
STANTZ: my great-grandparents were swiss. i still have the pictures they took of the statue from the boat when they arrived.
VENKMAN: oh, right, you told me that. they came to america seeking other kinds of cheese, as i recall. how about you, winston?
WINSTON: my people weren't taking any pictures from those slave ships, man. and there wasn't any statue in charleston harbor to welcome them, either. what are you, dana?
VENKMAN: miss blue blood? her family's been here since the year 12.
DANA: that's not true. it was 1620.
VENKMAN: same difference.
STANTZ: what's your story, pete?
VENKMAN: me? i'm a little of everything. some irish, some german, some french, dutch -- the women in my family slept around. and that's what made this country great.
DANA: that's a terrible thing to say.
VENKMAN: so what? it's a free country. thanks, lib.

