speaker1: cooool. 
speaker2: evening, constable!
speaker3: hi, arthur.
speaker2: are you familiar with the expression `i can explain everything'?
speaker3: out of the car, please.

speaker1: terribly sorry, but in the film they used a different model to show the old batchap getting in and out. this one has no doors, so i'd have to squeeze out the back first. which nobody wants... 
speaker1: apart from you, cheeky monkey!
speaker1: it's a joke! okay, okay.
speaker2: okay, explain everything.
speaker1: well. what with having spunked 1.6 million fat alberts on this little runaround, i thought why not take it a step further and try to actually collar a few ne-er do wells? it worked for the billionaire bruce wayne, why not the future billionaire arthur bach- templemead? will i have to do traffic school?
speaker3: how much have you drunk, arthur?
speaker1: to use the technical medical term - megabloodyshitloads. either that or i've had a stroke! but fret not, i have a designated driver.
speaker4: where's my five thousand dollars?
speaker1: the boy homeless here neglected to say he'd never driven.

speaker1: or that the only reason he's sober is to be ready for the conspiracy of leopards about to seize manhattan. 
speaker2: it's lizards! english prick!
speaker1: i trust this will cover all repairs to new york and any inconvenience to your good selves?
speaker1: up up and away! ah, no, that's the other chap.

speaker1: then the crazy cut me! 
speaker2: goodness. why?
speaker1: said i cut the bombita with pig killer!
speaker2: rude man. and who threw hot americano in whose face again?
speaker1: i did in his. no half and half neither. that burnt!

speaker1: i burnt my sister's hair. 
speaker2: cool...
speaker1: ho wanted to evict me, just 'cause i don't fit her definition of hygiene. plenty of places to take a toilet's just one of them.
speaker3: it's like a chat show, this.
speaker4: it's been said of my next guest, by jay the bandaged lunatic, that she's `a sick-ass, whacked-out, whacked-up asswipe'. carmella, when did you first dream of becoming a crack whore?
speaker5: mother died when i was six.
speaker3: oh g-d, i hate when that happens.
speaker5: my father raped me when i was twelve.
speaker3: sounds like you had six relatively good years.
speaker2: what do you do?
speaker3: i model riding boots, i spend money, i sleep with women. but i have weekends off and i am my own boss.
speaker6: hey, the drunk knight. your fairy g- d-lawyer's here.

speaker1: i don't think your mother will be pleased, arthur. 
speaker2: really, elverton - if a chap can't help out a few chums, whatever their station in life.
speaker2: each has given his or her word to put the criminal life behind them.
speaker2: i am the batman. gotham can sleep easy tonight.
speaker3: don't point that at me, i will you up!
speaker4: yes! yes! kill the lizards!
speaker5: arthur! what will your mother say? didn't she send you here to get you out of the british papers? arthur!
speaker6: he turns to those crooks who aren't fighting.
speaker2: anyone need a job? my last driver resigned after i filled his limo with squirrels. preferably sober, clean driving licence?

speaker1: oh, man. nobody tell you about the recession? 
speaker2: the what?

speaker1: roll up, roll up, folks, let's fix this thing right now. how much, sir? 
speaker2: um. $800 please.
speaker1: coming right up. fries with that?
speaker1: congratulations everyone! the
speaker1: pierre? arthur bach-templemead. can you squeeze me in for a little snack? yeah, just me and a couple of mates.

speaker1: pierre! we'd like 182 pate de foie gras, 182 chateaubriand steaks, a motherlode of chips and your entire wine cellar please. 
speaker2: arthur?
speaker1: erica? fancy meeting you here! er...everybody, this is erica - the very best friend forever of my girlfriend susan. and erica's parents ernest and margaret. are you familiar with the expression `i can't explain anything'?
speaker2: who are the women with you, arthur?
speaker1: oh, um, this is sofia. i believe she works for avis. checks the cars for dings, dead people in the trunk, that sort of thing. and this is carmella. anyway...
speaker3: what do you do, carmella?
speaker4: whatever you want. but no penetration without a rubber.
speaker1: carmella's joking. she's actually a...queen. of a very small country.
speaker3: is she now?
speaker1: it's terribly small.

speaker1: i see. 
speaker2: rhode island could beat the out of it in a war.
speaker1: yes, it's a small place.
speaker2: 85 cents in a cab from one end of the country to the other. i'm talking small.
speaker1: i think i understand how small it is.
speaker2: just had the entire country carpeted, this is not a big place.
speaker1: you need to grow up, arthur.
speaker2: that's easy for you to say, you haven't got 50 pairs of short trousers hanging in your closet.
speaker3: maybe you should.
speaker2: could i have all those lobsters to go, please?

speaker1: morning, hobson! 
speaker2: morning, arthur.
speaker2: i'm afraid your impromptu stimulus package failed to reignite the economy. de cache cocktail lounge: $23,897?
speaker1: umm...celebration of kwanzaa.
speaker2: the african heritage festival celebrated five months from now?

speaker1: why are you stopping? oh, sorry. how impolite of me. sofia, this is hobson, my nanny. 
speaker2: nanny?
speaker3: he's merely shaped like an adult.
speaker2: is she going to stay here?
speaker1: hobson, could you come back in a minute and a half please?
speaker3: negative. you're seeing your mother this morning.
speaker1: nobody told me.
speaker3: actually i did, on the other side of the vast moat of champagne known as `last night'.
speaker3: i wouldn't recommend letting him get used to your breasts, dear. addictive personality. he was at mine until he was six.
speaker1: hobson! really...
speaker3: i had to dab tabasco sauce on the to see him off...
speaker2: i can't do this.

speaker1: i support your decision 100%. will you be requiring a taxi, or just be getting in a random passing car? 
speaker1: say goodbye to your new friends, arthur. they have to go back to the recession now.
speaker2: cancel my mother please, hobson. i'll work from bed today.

speaker1: not the death metal, please! 
speaker2: aren't you a fan of carcass?
speaker2: `vomited tract' is surely a classic of its genre.

speaker1: good boy. 
speaker2: i'm going for a shower.
speaker1: i'll alert the media.

speaker1: to bombay, a travelling circus came... 
speaker2: they brought an intelligent elephant and nellie was her name...hobson!
speaker1: female tom hanks!

speaker1: heading east towards park avenue. 
speaker2: she's early today...
speaker1: can we invite her up and dress her as forrest gump?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: just for a laugh! we'll pay her.
speaker2: do your armpits.

speaker1: mr. miller? my employer inexplicably agreed to purchase your... 
speaker1: `authentic 1981 `funshine' care bear'? for $11,000 plus shipping costs? sorry, but that transaction will take place over my dead body, and i'm feeling rather well today.

speaker1: hobson! that was your birthday present! you like bears! 
speaker1: father wolverine...

speaker1: williams...that man has the constitution of an ox. 
speaker2: that reminds me, clean your genitals. heaven knows what wildlife that girl was harbouring between her thighs.

speaker1: i give you `sideways farting spider'. 
speaker2: arthur, you have to stop giving money away!

speaker1: i'm a philanthropist. 
speaker2: with the emphasis on the `pissed'. really, what is it about unearned wealth that brings out such idiocy in those who have it and those who want it? the way you're going, you'll have spent your inheritance before you've inherited it.
speaker1: `eagle pointing at lesbian.'
speaker2: why did you fire jessica?
speaker1: what kind of yoga teacher won't let a pupil invent positions? she was a with a pan pipe c.d.
speaker1: `upwards pooping astronaut'.
speaker2: interesting. it looks more like `rich twit hiding from mother.' may i remind you, she finances your preposterous existence...
speaker1: i know, i know. never bite the hand that fists me.

speaker1: sorry, fellas. 
speaker2: you don't seriously intend to keep employing this gentleman?

speaker1: give the guy a chance, hobson. he got laid off in chicago... 
speaker2: but he doesn't know his way around new york!
speaker1: so? i want interesting, fun people around me, not drones who just get the job done...
speaker1: marty! stop the car!
speaker3: the chrysler building. designed by william van allen...
speaker4: ...and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s, this magnificent structure was the world's tallest building for 11 months before the empire state stole its thunder.
speaker4: the chrysler got its name when the builder went bust in the 1928 cement famine and had to melt down his chrysler to make the pointy bit at the top. if you peer closely you can still make out remnants of a hub cap and a sticker reading `honk twice if you voted hoover.'

speaker1: that was a joke, folks. it was built for the chrysler corporation. 
speaker1: the spire is a beauty, especially on a winter's morning when the sun hits it and it just seems to...

speaker1: 1047 feet madam, not allowing for pigeon okay, let's cross. 
speaker2: can i join your tour please?
speaker1: sure. it's $15, plus $5 for the free authentic street pretzel. sorry, my bosses make the prices.
speaker1: sorry. i can't take cards.
speaker1: ah, owe me it. i start on that corner every day on the hour...
speaker1: hey, you big blind jerk! doesn't your braille windshield work?

speaker1: wow. what did you say? 
speaker2: just generalised criticism of his parents and genitals. everyone make it over alive? excellent. next we enter times square, world famous for new year's eve, when a waterford crystal ball descends at eye-poppingly slow speed for the inexplicable entertainment of a million drunk fools. many people think the square is actually a square, despite blatant evidence otherwise.
speaker2: sir? what shape is times square?
speaker1: a circle?
speaker2: see? morons.
speaker3: when do we get the pretzel?
speaker2: soon, sir. soon.
speaker2: okay, next the very laundromat once used by george gershwin, donald trump...

speaker1: ...mr big from and the city and three of the 9-11 terrorists. 
speaker1: oh, dad.
speaker1: the welsh poet dylan thomas drank himself to death at the chelsea hotel half an hour after losing a sock in this very dryer.
speaker2: are you abusing this tour to do your errands?
speaker1: are you abusing the tour to stalk me?
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker2: these things are amazing. have you ever put all your father's clothes on and just got inside one?
speaker3: where the blazes is that boy?

speaker1: ahead, the jewel in manhattan's crown, the empire state building. this iconic symbol of american corporate might was adapted during world war 2 in case of attack from enemy forces. at three minutes' notice the entire structure can retract into the ground like a tortoise's head. 
speaker2: that's not possible. i should know, i'm a civil engineer.
speaker1: you're not being very civil to me.
speaker3: the building doesn't retract; the ground rises up.
speaker1: exactly. the ground rises up! thank you, sir.
speaker3: they were going to install giant legs so if a plane was flying at the tower it could run away. but where's it going to run?
speaker1: manhattan's in the way.
speaker3: it'd have to jump in the hudson.
speaker1: victory to the nazis. is that what you want?
speaker1: okay, folks, your pretzel awaits.

speaker1: do i know you from somewhere? 
speaker2: if you go on perez hilton or tmz.
speaker1: what are they?
speaker2: the gossip websites.
speaker1: that the internet? ah, my computer's too old for all that.
speaker2: for the internet? seriously?
speaker1: life's too short for all this obsessive upgrading.
speaker2: you consider the internet an upgrade? wow.
speaker1: so why do people gossip about you?
speaker2: ah, that was a joke. i'm nobody.
speaker3: you're late for your mother!
speaker1: sorry, this pretzel stand is a watering hole for the crazies.
speaker2: hobson, this is... naomi.
speaker1: she's with you?

speaker1: delighted to meet you, naomi. normally one has to go to a bowling alley to meet a woman of your stature. 
speaker2: ooh, grandma's got jokes.
speaker1: you aren't the first woman who walks the streets this young man has asked.
speaker2: who's this? joan rivers' older bitterer sister?
speaker3: my nanny.
speaker2: obviously. seriously, who is she?
speaker3: my nanny. well, she started as that, but these days she's more of an all-round enforcer and bodyguard.
speaker2: sorry, i have to get out the cattle prod and haul ass. got another tour starting in eight minutes.
speaker3: can i call you?
speaker2: i don't give my number to grown men with nannies. but as you may not be a grown man, it's 917 476 2030.

speaker1: but what if this is the one? 
speaker2: this is just like the komodo dragon. everyone else is happy to see one in the zoo and leave it there. you had to own one. thank goodness that handbag manufacturer was prepared to take the poor lizard away.
speaker1: you said he's in london zoo!
speaker2: he is, arthur. are you the only one allowed to joke now?

speaker1: i don't like it here. 
speaker2: of course you don't. people work here.
speaker3: good afternoon, mr bach-templemead.
speaker1: hi grant. tell me - which of your parents are you most like?
speaker3: i have no connection with that store. my family name is von krausehoff. take a seat please.

speaker1: vivienne? white mid-rise briefs...mmmm. 
speaker2: don't fret, arthur. this won't take long. then we'll have ice cream.
speaker3: come in, arthur.
speaker3: arthur.
speaker4: vivienne.
speaker3: you know i prefer `mother'.
speaker4: i'm sorry. you look more like a vivienne.

speaker1: so. how are you, arthur? 
speaker2: quite busy. i have a riding boot shoot for petrie dressage...
speaker3: but vivienne's buried in her work, not listening.
speaker2: what else...i'm meeting ivanka trump for brunch to discuss the environment. she's sending her helicopter to avoid the traffic...
speaker2: crashed my batmobile into the bronze bull on wall street...
speaker2: ...which caused a hole to swallow up the new york stock exchange...
speaker2: ..the world economy to collapse and the planet to descend into looting and cannibalism.
speaker2: what else? um...tripped over in the shower this morning. head split open, found a family of meerkats hiding in there! hated the thought of the little lads being homeless so i bricked up the remaining half of my brain, popped them back in and hobson glued my skull back together.
speaker2: i'm thinking of buying a giant. i think the market's right for it.
speaker2: you really are a shoddy mother.

speaker1: did i hear you say you were meeting ivanka trump for brunch? that's nice. right. today we're going to have a friendly chat. then a serious talk. and lastly make a timetable. how does all that sound? 
speaker2: amazing. do you have any vodka?
speaker1: what happened, arthur? you were such a sweet baby.
speaker2: i still wake up in my own poo occasionally.
speaker1: right, that's it for the chat. time to transition to our talk.
speaker1: this insanity has to end, arthur. as the delightful coffee-coloured gentleman who runs this country said, `the time has come to set aside childish things.'
speaker2: can't hobson set them aside for me?
speaker1: susan is a splendid girl. her feet are on the ground, she's of fine stock...
speaker2: oh. that's what this is all about. i'm not marrying susan. i don't love her.
speaker1: and? you think i spent my marriage to your father skipping through meadows?

speaker1: not after you ran him over in the bentley, no. susan's boring. she's not funny. 
speaker2: ditto your father. the aristocracy doesn't marry for `fun', arthur.
speaker1: ...and sinking your fangs into susan's father's bank account.
speaker2: the johnson family's considerable equity in a stormy financial period is merely a side issue. burt is a pillar of the community.
speaker1: his baby formula was taken off the market in six african countries!
speaker2: a completely innocent error in places where there's precious little for children to live for anyway. the families all got gift baskets as compensation. that little bump in the road aside, burt is a devout christian.
speaker1: yes, because they're never insane.
speaker2: burt paid his debt to society years ago.
speaker1: he strangled a fireman! who strangles a fireman?
speaker2: arthur...

speaker1: i'm sorry, vivienne. i've met someone else very lovely who, as far as i know, isn't related to anyone who would kill an unsung hero in cold blood. 
speaker2: un-meet her. arthur, you're the end of our line. we need an heir.
speaker1: i nearly gave you an heir!
speaker2: oh, give me strength! a bach- templemead having a child by a lap dancer called `mystery'?
speaker1: that was just her stage name! to give her more mystery when she...waved her around. her real name was...what was it again?
speaker2: susan is 33 this year. her egg inventory has dropped by 23% since you met her. you risk having no sons, or worse, some pea-brained hunchback who hugs everyone!
speaker1: great! i like hugs! and some of them are really good at math. you know the `frog and toad' books?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: of course you don't. hobson read them to me while you were off riding horses over stripey poles. they're about fun and friendship, not how many unspasticated tadpoles i can squirt up a rich girl.
speaker2: your father would turn in his grave to hear this nonsense...

speaker1: that i won't follow in his footsteps and marry a woman i hate? i think he might climb out of the grave and dance on it. 
speaker2: suit yourself.
speaker2: my will, which i have updated to designate grant in reception as the sole beneficiary.
speaker1: you wouldn't! you're my...
speaker2: ...vivienne? try me.
speaker2: shall we segue to the timetable part of our meeting?

speaker1: ah. the ring your father gave your mother, i recall. 
speaker2: did he knock her out with it, then drive her to the church in the trunk of his bentley?
speaker1: no. your father was a gentleman.
speaker2: what's gentlemanly about dying before i knew him? that's just rude. did he ever love my mother?

speaker1: they had their days. 
speaker2: ah well. at least he doesn't have to wake up every day to a woman with a face like saran wrap stretched over a gargoyle.
speaker2: what about naomi?
speaker1: arthur. i say this with love:
speaker2: uh-oh...
speaker1: even by modern male standards you're a breathtakingly immature little coupled with the kind of money you have access to, that's deadly. susan may not have a four hour stand up routine about the flatiron building, but she's a solid girl who will look after you.
speaker2: i have you for that.
speaker1: not forever.
speaker2: yes forever. you're hobson.

speaker1: hello? 
speaker1: hello?

speaker1: oh, hi! what's up? 
speaker2: i'm sorry, i've never really understood that question. are you free tomorrow night?
speaker1: sorry, i'm polishing my yacht.

speaker1: is that a euphemism for something naughty? 
speaker2: no, it's a lie. i have a creative writing class. tonight?
speaker1: i have a contractual commitment.
speaker2: you got it.
speaker1: paper.
speaker2: sorry?
speaker1: sorry, i was talking to something else. so. what do you want to do?

speaker1: a movie? 
speaker2: movie? come on, you've got to try harder than that.
speaker1: pizza.
speaker2: what have you always wanted to do?
speaker1: it's a first date, arthur. not our honeymoon.
speaker2: every date will be our honeymoon.
speaker1: ewww. okay, uh, picnic in the park...or dinner with a view. i like views.

speaker1: what sort of food do you like? 
speaker2: anything but guts and mushrooms.
speaker1: oh come on. this all helps build up a profile of you before i trick you into my basement. i'd hate to not have your favourite snacks ready.
speaker2: turkey jerky and pez. are we done?

speaker1: hi! is it june 19th at 7 pm? 
speaker2: no, sir. it's 8.34.
speaker1: we overshot! time travel can be a real sometimes, don't you think? i'll be right back. see you in an hour and a half ago...

speaker1: would you care for anything while you wait? 
speaker2: a trampoline and a selection of woodland creatures if that's not too much trouble.

speaker1: ah! 
speaker1: shhhhh...
speaker1: bollocks.
speaker1: sorry. actually, you couldn't, um....you know... ...turn this into a nice 1990 romanee conti, could you?
speaker1: cheers ears.
speaker1: `genuine sword of the first crusade. excavated germany, 1972'.
speaker1: christ!
speaker1: sorry. it's not like you shouted `arthur bach' when they pinned you up. sorry. sore subject.
speaker1: feel the force, luke.
speaker2: arthur!

speaker1: i, er, had a bit of food stuck in my teeth and couldn't find a toothpick. 
speaker2: heck, this sword went through three crusades. beheaded 1000 moslems. nothing you can do to harm it.
speaker1: you don't, um, have anything stronger, do you?
speaker2: sparkling.
speaker2: `the drunkard and the glutton shalt come to poverty: and drowsiness shalt clothe a man with rags.'
speaker1: surely a glass of sherry at christmas?
speaker2: peace be with you.
speaker1: and also with me.
speaker2: arthur. can i be honest with you?
speaker1: you're the real slim shady? i knew it!

speaker1: my faith teaches me to hate the sin, not the sinner. but with you, i struggle with that belief. 
speaker2: you could switch to judaism. bit warm in here. do you mind if i put the fan on?
speaker1: anyway, arthur. however i feel about you, my daughter loves you.
speaker2: yes, it's a problem, isn't it?
speaker2: let's knock our heads together and find a way to stop her loving me....got it! we'll tell her i'm on the offenders register....no, i am and she knows.
speaker2: joke, sorry. ah. we'll say i'm gay! i did once dabble actually, so i can tell a plausible story.
speaker1: you made love to a guy?
speaker2: one moslem doesn't make a mosque, burt.
speaker1: you made love to a moslem?

speaker1: no, sir, it was prince alois of lichtenstein and he made love to me. the fact that it took three bottles of poppers and a jacuzzi full of krug to loosen me up confirmed my heterosexuality. arthur notices that jesus's head is on backwards. 
speaker2: `if there is a man who lies with a male, they shall surely be put to death.'
speaker1: crikey. couldn't there just be some kind of on-the-spot fine?
speaker2: you will stop this talk and marry - my - fucking...
speaker1: oh bollocks.
speaker1: it's a miracle! he is risen!
speaker1: hi susan. erica.
speaker3: sorry to make you wait, arthur. i was talking to your mother. i hear you have something to ask me!

speaker1: ...the chef has bathed the bass in a parceline of chilean fennel and finished him with a little gift of kobe beef. also i have a progressive tasting of kumamoto oysters en gelee which evolve on the palate, from light and refreshing to complex and spicy. a short story with a twist at the end! le fin. 
speaker2: do you have something with less words please? the chef doesn't have to re-cook it, just scrape off the nouns and trim out all that gibberish in the middle.
speaker3: he's just joshing, dominic. i'll do the skate in wood ear mushroom.
speaker1: excellent decision. sir?
speaker2: a bowl of champagne and a spoon.
speaker3: arthur, did you really have to be so icky to dominic?
speaker2: i'm sorry. i just can't handle the whole specials act. it's not a shakespearean soliloquy, it's some heated up dead things that aren't on the main menu.

speaker1: you know, i was grumbling to your mother about how things are with us sometimes. how i'm sure you're trying to drive me away... 
speaker2: um hm.
speaker1: but she was explaining that relationships are like property purchases; invest only in high-end stock, avoid anyone 'up-and- coming', then hold onto the property through thick and thin to deliver maximum return! isn't that darling?
speaker2: is it possible to buy the house but then rent it out? sorry, joke. i'm not suggesting pimping you.
speaker2: look. you after our first child is born.
speaker1: arthur. why can't you learn to laugh at genuinely amusing things?
speaker2: such as?
speaker1: youtube clips of babies giggling.
speaker2: susan. why are we together?
speaker1: i love you, arthur. and you love me, whatever you think.

speaker1: we don't have the same sense of humour. we don't like the same films, food, music. you like horses, i think they're arrogant idiots... 
speaker2: don't they say opposites attract?
speaker1: that depends on the opposites. racists and the nation of islam don't secretly want to 69 each other. susan, you're beautiful. you're bright. you're loaded. is there really no one else who could make you happy?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: never?
speaker2: well, i had a thing at college. that was serious for a while. but daddy...
speaker1: daddy what? prayed to for it not to work out, then shot the bloke behind a meat truck? because would consider that cheating.
speaker2: ask me, arthur.
speaker1: susan. you're the only woman...at this table.

speaker1: you're not happy, arthur. nobody who drinks like you can be happy. 
speaker2: how do you know? what if the drunker i get the better it is for me? not everyone who drinks is a poet, susan. some of us drink because we're not poets.
speaker1: a real woman could stop you from drinking.
speaker2: it'd have to be a real big woman.
speaker1: ask me, arthur.
speaker2: all done.
speaker2: susan. would you marry me? take the weekend if you want...
speaker1: yes, i'll marry you.
speaker3: ladies and gentleman - the happy couple!

speaker1: erica will be the planner. 
speaker2: erica? she hates me.
speaker1: who i love, she loves.
speaker2: oh, come on. she always looks like she wants to set fire to my face then put it out with an uzi.
speaker1: hello...thanks, daddy! sorry, hang on, i have erica calling...
speaker2: what's going on? i only just proposed!

speaker1: what have i done, kitt? this mistake's up there with hitler joining his school debating team... 
speaker2: go to bed, arthur.
speaker3: and stop this self-pitying bibble.
speaker1: maybe i'd rather be fabulously poor. some poor people i see look happy.

speaker1: that's either because they're far away or you've just given them money. arthur, poor people have to work. they stand for hours in the rain, waiting for buses full of other poor people to take them to things called `jobs' which they do all year round to pay for holidays away from those jobs. 
speaker2: don't patronise me. i have a job.
speaker1: lying drunk on a bale of hay in riding boots being photographed by another pampered won't prepare you for the work i mean. and i don't want to see you suffer.
speaker3: when are we getting cable?
speaker4: we have satellite.
speaker3: honey, that's some aerial from the 99 cent store!
speaker4: it's a satellite dish!
speaker3: i read the box! it said `no satellite fees to pay because does not receive satellite signals!' that's like saying `hey - eat this plate of broken glass! it won't make you fat. 'cause it's glass!'

speaker1: it's better than nothing. ralph unplugs the dish. the picture improves. 
speaker2: no it ain't. honey, i love you, but you're even cheaper than your mom. and she bought food from yard sales.
speaker1: i miss her too, daddy. but now she's gone and if i'm going to keep you in grits and oprah the rest of your life, you live by my rules.
speaker2: but you live like you're preparing for a war. and you earn a decent salary.
speaker1: so? i want to know i can look after you.
speaker2: what's he do, this english bum?
speaker1: who cares? he's nice. he's funny.
speaker2: yeah and i bet that girl said the same about her date. honey, stay home. i don't want you ending up like that poor girl.
speaker1: a bad actress holding her breath?
speaker1: stop watching csi.

speaker1: sorry we drove around so long. navigation isn't my driver's strong point. 
speaker1: or road awareness.

speaker1: can you put this on please? 
speaker2: on a first date? are you crazy?
speaker1: trust me.
speaker2: arthur. we're in battery park at night. i've met you once - in the company of your nanny. you make a disturbing number of jokes about stalking and basements. my dad already has you down as a mass murderer. and you want me to put on a blindfold?
speaker1: i give you my word - if i kill and eat you, you'll never see me again.
speaker2: okay, i'm officially a little worried.

speaker1: don't worry! 
speaker1: you said you wanted a picnic.
speaker2: arthur, i don't know what to say.
speaker2: who did all this?
speaker1: the picnic fairies. who liaised with the flower fairies, the candle fairies, the log fire fairies, the hidden sound system fairies...
speaker1: ...and the pizza fairies.
speaker2: did you take account of the heroin fairies who hang here at night?
speaker1: it's nice to keep it simple like this. i'm sick of michelin-star restaurants. all that embarrassing with the specials.
speaker2: are you kidding? where i normally eat, the special's the one that comes with a free toy.

speaker1: you're rich rich, aren't you? 
speaker2: i get by.
speaker1: `it doesn't remotely matter how much or what you spend it on' rich?
speaker1: craziest thing you ever bought?
speaker2: i once inadvertently financed a terrorist cell who said they needed â£100,000 to open a falafel stall.
speaker1: oh my g-d, you're serious.
speaker2: what's the craziest thing you ever told a tour party?
speaker1: i once said the manhattan we were in was actually a movie set built for `you've got mail', but that after the film wrapped, everyone moved to the set because there was less crime.
speaker1: yes, dad? there's a small tiffany butter knife about two inches from his hand but it might take him eight months to dismember me with it.
speaker1: gotta go, battery. love you too.

speaker1: sounds like you're very good to him. 
speaker2: what are you gonna do? all those years your folks tucked you in, did their best to stop you from eating in front of the tv. and then one day, you're the one saying `no, honey, it's bad for you! go to bed.' weird, huh?
speaker1: yeah. i hate that. nice bit of kitsch. where did you find that?
speaker2: atandt store in 1998.
speaker1: it's...you've had it twelve years?
speaker2: it's a fine phone. battery life of eleven seconds, which cuts the right out of conversations.
speaker2: i can't believe these mofos who gotta keep up with the latest cds come along, so out with the vinyl. vinyl's back in, out with the cds. i just kept the vinyl. way cheaper, and i get to be incredibly hip once every 20 years....

speaker1: i couldn't decide between picnic in the park and dinner with a view. so it's a picnic in the sky! isn't it ace? 
speaker2: no it is not ace, you crazy english bastard! this is dangerous!
speaker1: oh, sorry. forgot. they said to put these on.
speaker1: naomi, it's okay! it's very safe. it's this company called `aerial delights'. they specialise in catering unusual events at a height of 180 feet above the ground.
speaker1: so what got you into the walking tours?
speaker2: you're seriously making date small talk while this is going on?
speaker1: be still. breathe deep. `when you can be calm in the midst of activity, this is the true state of nature': huanchu daoeren.

speaker1: `lower this freak show to the ground and get me a cab': naomi snart. 
speaker2: taste this truffle.
speaker1: what the hell. gotta go sometime, right? at least it won't be years of pain like mom. just a few seconds of screaming and falling with a truffle in my mouth.
speaker2: so anyway. the tours...
speaker1: okay, okay. be deep. breathe still. the tours are a temporary nine year fill-in until i'm drowned in a tsunami of apologies from everyone who failed to recognise my writing genius first time round.
speaker2: what did you write?
speaker1: a kids' book. i sent a chapter to a childrens' publisher. sunshine press'. the rejection letter was the meanest thing i ever read.
speaker2: kids can be so cruel...
speaker1: arthur? we have a problem.

speaker1: i told you, don't worry. these crane people know what they're doing! 
speaker2: not that kind of problem.
speaker3: phone. and the watch. hurry.
speaker1: um. out of interest, how did you get up here?
speaker3: what you talkin' about, dog?
speaker2: great. `picnic in the sky' followed by `robbed in the sky'!
speaker2: this isn't funny, you lunatic.

speaker1: owww! you don't understand! we're 180 feet up in the sky! 
speaker2: you on the same as me, yeah?

speaker1: no, we're not high! well we are, but only in the literal sense. 
speaker1: hit the panic button! it's next to the truffle station!
speaker1: hurry!
speaker2: i can't find it. over here?
speaker1: no! that's the bouquet of world hams!

speaker1: i had fun tonight. 
speaker2: i can't believe i'm saying this, but so did i.

speaker1: summarising phase alpha: formal wear for bridal attendants, groom's attendants, mens' formal wear, st john the divine all confirmed... arthur's lying on a chaise longue, hungover. a tailor 
speaker2: are there breathing holes in the coffin?
speaker3: i'm sorry?
speaker2: in case i'm passed out drunk rather than medically dead?
speaker1: don't worry, thomas. this whole thing's just a joke to arthur.
speaker2: thanks, hobnobs. you are good to me.
speaker4: take this away.
speaker4: progress on the reception?
speaker1: black inked at the emery roth room at the ritz-carlton.

speaker1: a first pass at the guest list. bride's family and friends: 
speaker1: groom's family and friends:
speaker1: we can arrange to screen off the area behind your guests, arthur. to make it seem less desperate.
speaker2: sorry, everyone. that graphic's too colourful and this hangover's a 7.6 on the richter..the sickter...
speaker1: cakes, caterers, floral arrangements, photographer...
speaker3: will there be anything else, sir?
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker3: ma'am?
speaker4: no. you can leave.
speaker2: why all this now? what's the rush anyway?
speaker5: the wedding is in a month, arthur.

speaker1: a month? i was thinking more sort of ten, fifteen years. just to really enjoy the anticipation of the big day. 
speaker2: where are you going?
speaker1: sorry, dwight d. bridalshower, operation ball and chain will have to wait.

speaker1: here we are. 
speaker2: we're not going to end up in the hudson again, are we?
speaker1: i can promise you won't get wet.

speaker1: are you okay? 
speaker2: yeah, fine. actually...

speaker1: everything is 99 cents? 
speaker2: yip. a whole penny less than those bourgeois at the dollar store.
speaker1: `warning: this product contains chromium, which may be linked to chronic bronchitis and reproductive hazards."
speaker2: that one was on the news. everyone else recalled them, the pussies. not my 99 cent!
speaker1: maybe china's trying to wipe out the west's children one by one.
speaker2: oh, i love this place.
speaker1: why?

speaker1: well, i'd like you to believe it's because i'm a poor girl reduced to buying `depressed chef' burgers-in- a-can to right said fred because i don't know where my next paycheck is coming from. but the truth is - bargains get me hot. got it from ma. drives my dad crazy. the tour? 
speaker2: yes please.
speaker1: looking west, the ladies' hygiene products. note that the more natural-sounding the name, e.g. this 'vermont breeze' feminine spray, the more lethal chemicals it contains. watch out for the products cunningly labelled to make the dumber consumer think they're getting the real thing: 'special j', 'crampbell's soup', ''aunt janina's' maple-style syrup...

speaker1: and ah, the music: dated sounds for lonely people to buy cheap to. 
speaker1: i once watched a woman shoplift an 8-pack of toilet scrubbers down her hose to 'everything i do, i do it for you'.
speaker1: why are you staring at me?
speaker2: just fascinated.

speaker1: you're good at fascinated. 
speaker2: you're good at fascinating.
speaker2: are you okay? let me help you.
speaker3: not that one.
speaker2: this one?
speaker3: no. there's less beans in it.
speaker2: this one?
speaker3: no.
speaker2: this one?
speaker2: no. i think i hear a mouse inside.
speaker2: oh my g-d. this is a good one. no rodents. packed.
speaker2: quick, before someone gets it.

speaker1: you got a good one here, honey. 
speaker2: look. us in a year's time.
speaker2: if you got ill, i'd care for you.
speaker3: i'll get ill.
speaker3: oh, man, phil collins. gotta get out when they start playing phil collins. want to see how to get a quarter from a shopping cart?

speaker1: tiger woods has confirmed! 
speaker2: i didn't know you knew him.
speaker3: i don't.
speaker2: why is he coming?
speaker3: he agreed to daddy's fee. this is going to be the happiest day of my life!
speaker3: why is she here all the time?

speaker1: if you can bring erica, i can bring hobson. 
speaker2: she's my wedding planner.
speaker1: she's my hobson.
speaker3: tell naomi. that's an order.

speaker1: reminiscent of a french castle perched 500 feet above new york, the penthouse was known from early days as the `chateau in the sky'. 
speaker2: a second ballroom. obviously. gotta have a second ballroom.
speaker1: where george gershwin and the astors danced to shep fields and his rippling rhythm orchestra.
speaker1: come on, cheap girl. we can be fred austere and stingy rogers.
speaker2: i just need one of your collection of bathrooms.
speaker1: behind the telephone box fish tank.

speaker1: hobson? 
speaker2: he's not like other men, you know.
speaker1: i think i realised that as i plunged into the hudson with a junkie. but i like him. he's fun.
speaker2: i know he is. that's the problem.
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker2: i'm sure arthur will explain.

speaker1: your kids' book. what was it about? 
speaker2: `vlad the inhaler'. about an asthmatic boy detective.
speaker1: be serious.
speaker2: oh, it was dumb. `the boy whose heart escaped'. it was about this kid who wakes up to find his heart has climbed out and is shinning down the drainpipe to freedom.
speaker1: i love it.

speaker1: rainbow press said it was too disturbing. but it wasn't literal - there wasn't a kid lying there with a gaping hole in his chest. it was just this cute little heart bouncing up and down shouting `you can't catch me, mofo!'. i'm paraphrasing. 
speaker2: did he catch the heart?
speaker1: never got that far.
speaker1: you like the hooch, don't you?
speaker2: only if i'm sad, happy or bored. there's this bit in a book hobson used to read me as a kid that says it all: `we must stop eating cookies, frog!' cried toad, as he ate another.'
speaker1: frog and toad! i loved frog and toad!
speaker2: `frog put the cookies in a box. `there' he said. now we will not eat any more cookies.' `but we can open the box.' frog tied some string around the box. `there' he said, `now we will not eat any more cookies'. `but we can cut the string and open the box'.
speaker2: so frog took the box outside. he shouted in a loud voice, `hey birds, here are cookies!' birds came from everywhere. they picked up all the cookies in their beaks and flew away. `

speaker1: now we have no more cookies to eat' `excellent!' said toad, `i am going home now to bake a cake.' 
speaker1: classic addict.
speaker2: that was beautiful. it's like you read it yesterday.

speaker1: frog and toad stayed on the island all afternoon. 
speaker1: they ate wet sandwiches without iced tea. they were two close friends sitting alone together.
speaker2: i couldn't tell her, hobson. she isn't the komodo dragon. she's my toad.
speaker1: you're quite sure about this?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: oh, bollocks.

speaker1: i don't know, honey. what's this teabag even doing here? couldn't he make it in lord of the rings land? 
speaker2: not that it matters, but he's a billionaire.
speaker1: you have my full permission to marry him.

speaker1: bravo, vivienne! well done! 
speaker2: i'd be wary, grant. she's planning to ride you around the course next. her last boyfriend broke his ankle jumping that ditch. had to be destroyed on the spot.
speaker3: arthur. what's so urgent that you had to come all the way out here?
speaker2: i'm in love. with a woman who isn't exactly who you'd describe as susan. she's called naomi.
speaker3: arthur, we've been through this!
speaker2: won't you at least meet her?
speaker3: what family is she from?
speaker2: the snarts of detroit.

speaker1: never heard of them. 
speaker2: no, because they're normal. she's a walking tour guide, her dad's a retired car worker.
speaker1: susan will generate quality sons, not oil-soaked car monkeys.
speaker2: unbelievable! why don't you just keep me here, pay a servant to me into a bottle once a day...
speaker1: arthur...
speaker2: ...then inject it all into a field of heiresses and see who farts out a thoroughbred first?
speaker1: we need an heir!
speaker2: fine! you can have one with stevey steroids here! surely even your uterus has had a face lift by now.
speaker3: that's enough, arthur...
speaker2: none of your business, j crew.
speaker3: you are so ungrateful to your mother. she adores you!
speaker1: arthur. come back here.
speaker2: you can shove your inheritance up your horse's arse!

speaker1: suit yourself, arthur. follow your heart. but do be aware i consider what you've squandered so far an advance on your inheritance. that's about $17 million. 
speaker2: why would you do that? you'd never get it back.
speaker1: no. but you'd spend the rest of your life in court. there's a simple solution to all this. marry susan. and cheat with the nobody from queens.

speaker1: have you been at the cookies? 
speaker2: i ate the whole jar.
speaker1: oh, man. what? what?
speaker2: i'm engaged. to another susan. woman. engaged to another woman.
speaker2: i'm so sorry i didn't tell you.
speaker1: what are you talking about? this is who do you think you are?
speaker2: i was going to tell you! i just...
speaker3: naomi gets up and puts on her coat.
speaker1: yeah, yeah, you just.
speaker2: please, naomi! i didn't mean for it to get to this! i planned to just be your friend but then i started to fall for you and i thought `i can't marry susan, i might fall for naomi!' but i thought `no i have to marry susan or i'll be poor so i won't fall for naomi' but then i did fall for you! because you're brainy and funny and gorgeous and too smart to do walking tours. you're too smart, snart. smart snart. there's a 99 cent cereal.
speaker2: anyway, so i went to see vivienne, and i said `i can't marry susan, i love naomi she's my frog my toad' i don't know any more.
speaker1: you're frog.
speaker2: thanks. then she said `noooo, if you don't marry susan, i'll make you pay all the inheritance money back even if you can't - ha ha ha'. okay she didn't laugh but she might as well have, the evil cow. because it's like all the money ever and they'll put not just me but both of us in prison and your dad, like in dickens. there'll be ghosts, and oliver and....
speaker1: maybe if i'd spotted this facet of your personality earlier we wouldn't be having this conversation.
speaker2: toad? stay a bit longer. please?

speaker1: why? 
speaker2: 'cause it'll reduce the proportion of my life i'll spend feeling utterly miserable.
speaker1: bye, arthur.
speaker2: bea arthur? what's she got to do with all this?

speaker1: it's going to be okay. i'll get you a beer, yeah? 
speaker2: i just have to be alone for a minute...oh, g-d, i can't bear it...

speaker1: designed by william van allen and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s, the chrysler... 
speaker2: hey. i got a question.
speaker1: please, interrupt. hell, who wants to come home with me and in with questions while i'm watching letterman? `yo. how tall is dave?'
speaker1: sorry, sir. late night, no sleep, long day. what's your question?

speaker1: how can i just let you walk away, just let you leave without a trace? 
speaker2: when i stand here taking every breath with you, ooh...
speaker3: you're the only one who really knew me at all.
speaker4: what is going on?
speaker5: how can you just walk away from me, when all i can do is watch you leave?
speaker6: 'cause we've shared the laughter and the pain...
speaker7: and even shared the tears.
speaker7: you're the only one who really knew me at all.
speaker8: so take a look at me now, 'cause there's just an empty space. and there's nothing left here to remind me, just the memory of your face.

speaker1: take a look at me now, `cause there's just an empty space, and you coming back to me is against all odds and that's what i've got to face...just take a look at me now. the song builds to a dance crescendo. 
speaker2: sorry to be a wet blanket, folks. he's getting married. but i guess he didn't choreograph that bit for you.
speaker1: but..but this took ages to rehearse. i had the frog outfit specially made. these aren't actual tourists.
speaker2: i gathered that, arthur. are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture?
speaker1: what do you mean?
speaker2: it's like hobson said. you're not like other men. if you were normal, if the money and the booze didn't cloud everything, you'd deal with the fact that you're engaged, rather than just looking for ways to win me back. but it was a lovely routine, really. fantastic outfit.
speaker1: i just wanted to see you.
speaker2: you need to see someone, arthur.

speaker1: hobson! female tom hanks has had a haircut! hobson? 
speaker2: it says here you shouldn't forget to clean your junk. i guess that's what...'genitahlio-ah' is.
speaker1: marty? what are you doing there?
speaker2: hobson left me in charge. she's gone to bed. she had a headache.
speaker1: she's had quite a few headaches lately.
speaker2: she blacked out.

speaker1: put my bears back on, arthur. 
speaker2: not until you answer my question.
speaker1: i'm travelling down a white tunnel. to - a garden? mother? father? why is it so hot? who's the red gentleman with the big pitchfork?
speaker2: will you cut it out?

speaker1: arthur. there are three books. this is important. take them back to the library... 
speaker2: hobson, please. don't die any more.
speaker1: arthur. old women, like bears, get sore heads. are you okay? you look a little lost.
speaker2: naomi doesn't want to see me.
speaker1: a terrible shame she had to go. a little tart like that could have saved you a fortune in prostitutes.
speaker2: listen, old woman. don't ever talk about naomi that way again. what gives you the right to be such a snob? you're just...you're just... mary poppins with a menopause!
speaker2: hobson, i've never raised my voice to you. i'm sorry.
speaker1: i'm sorry too. you know, arthur, you may be growing up.
speaker2: do you want anything?
speaker1: i want to be younger.
speaker2: sorry, it's your job to be older.
speaker2: hobson. if you're feeling better tomorrow, will you accompany me somewhere?
speaker3: she pats his hand gently.
speaker1: of course, arthur.
speaker2: how do i look?
speaker2: i can't have this getting out. i'm in the public eye.
speaker1: yes, it would be disastrous to harm such a dignified profile.
speaker1: it's going to be okay, arthur.

speaker1: i was waking up four, five, six mornings a week in different mens' beds... 
speaker1: i wanted to die. to be nobody.
speaker2: i steal from my friends, my family. i sold my son's pedal car so i could score junk...

speaker1: jesus.... 
speaker2: i accidentally backed my car over my mother outside walgreens...
speaker3: marty! this isn't a sports bar in chicago. these people aren't here to brag.
speaker2: i had a business, a home and it's all gone! i'm in this grave and they're pouring the earth in!
speaker1: whoooaaahh. okay, cut. i don't know about anyone else, but this isn't exactly killing my thirst.
speaker4: well why did you come...what's your name?
speaker1: gandalf.
speaker1: i'm sorry, you're not going to convince me my life isn't fun.
speaker1: and no offence but if i ran over my mother, i'd be out celebrating. which is what i plan to do right now. come on, hobson. marty.
speaker5: i'm jane. and i believe i have a dependence on alcohol...

speaker1: ...and because i have done nothing with the astonishing opportunities handed to me, apart from away my inheritance and drinking enough to kill a rhino. 
speaker2: it's always the quiet ones.
speaker2: thanks, hobson. maybe you can go every time i crave a drink?

speaker1: susan? look, i know the wedding date is set. but fancy bringing it forward? i just want to get it over with. in a good way. think about it, yeah? 
speaker1: it's the agony of possibility, hobson. it just hurts too much to know i could still be with naomi if i had the guts.
speaker2: just promise you'll never ask me to sleep with susan for you.

speaker1: arthur, if that's... 
speaker1: hello? yes. yes, i did...yes. sorry? really? well i worked pretty hard on it..love to...love to...what time?
speaker1: i'll call in dead to work. bye.

speaker1: you must be the nanny. 
speaker2: i must be.
speaker2: please stop this, i can't inhale and am in danger of treading on one of your knuckles.
speaker2: if you and your undershirt would walk two paces back i could enter this dwelling.
speaker3: well, well.
speaker1: ever since i met arthur i liked him. we have to make sure these two wonderful kids stay together...
speaker2: try not to talk. it's not your words but the breath which bears them. perhaps you could repair to the east wing and make me a cup of tea? i wish to speak to naomi.
speaker1: sure, sure.
speaker2: arthur is having a pre-wedding party tonight. you should come.
speaker3: oh, should i? are all the other girls he passed up going too?

speaker1: don't you want to show arthur how well you're doing? 
speaker2: tell him thanks, but i have a deadline.
speaker1: arthur doesn't know i'm here. he's far too decent to be involved in something so tawdry. you could bring your father. a magical experience before he's too big to leave this apartment.
speaker2: why would i go to this? why would i do that to myself?
speaker1: my dear, if there's one thing old women can tell, it's young men in love. and the food promises to be breathtakingly free.
speaker2: are you alright?
speaker1: better than you, dear.
speaker2: you really look out for arthur, don't you?
speaker1: yes. and it is a job that i recommend highly.
speaker1: you really look out for this gentleman, from what i've heard.
speaker2: ah, what am i gonna do? the no-kill pet shelter won't take him.

speaker1: thank you. would you go the bathroom and commence washing? you only have three hours and it could be quite a project. 
speaker2: i appreciate what you're trying to do but i'm not going to that party.
speaker1: suit yourself.
speaker2: have you seen a doctor?
speaker1: yes. and he has seen me.
speaker2: i think arthur has a very good friend. may i kiss you on the cheek?
speaker1: is it something you feel strongly about?
speaker2: yes.
speaker2: dad! call 911.

speaker1: thanks. we're going to move things up tempo now with `the only thing that looks good on me is you.' 
speaker2: splendid affair, susan.
speaker3: don't thank me, thank erica.

speaker1: you are not to pull him out of that party on my behalf. 
speaker1: hello? naomi!
speaker2: you're gonna get through this, babe. then who knows what the future may hold?
speaker3: excuse me, madam. name? madam?
speaker4: naomi grabs the arm of a male guest.
speaker5: snart plus one.

speaker1: nice dress. vera wang? 
speaker2: ross dress for less. you know where arthur is?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker3: when arthur proposed to my daughter, i was overjoyous. the bach-templemeads are my kind of people: classy. respectable. well spoken. people like in shakespeare in love, who esprouse the same values i have always upheld both in my business and spiritual life. but tonight isn't about me or america's leading independent formula brand.
speaker4: thank you, burt! i've actually prepared a little surprise song with my friends here.

speaker1: why does cash suddenly appear, every time you are near? 
speaker1: just like me, it longs to be, close to sue. why do cars fall out of the sky, all of which, i can buy...
speaker1: i'll sing a proper song.
speaker1: you say potayto and i say potahto, you say tomayto and i say tomahto, potayto, potahto, tomayto, tomahto, let's call the whole thing off! you say aa, and i say `no way', you say `red bull' and i say `go away, rehab, no way, red bull...

speaker1: we meet again! 
speaker2: yeah. have you seen arthur?
speaker1: the ballroom. i'll take you to him.
speaker1: i'm so happy for arthur and susan.
speaker1: isn't she beautiful?
speaker2: of course she is. why would arthur marry a pig?
speaker3: the door man appears, seeing naomi.
speaker1: what business is your family in?
speaker2: hm? oh, i'm the heiress to a fortune built on small pets.
speaker1: i'm sorry?
speaker2: hamsters, mice, doglets...
speaker1: doglets?
speaker2: tiny dogs. the technology's not perfect. seeing a horse the size of a can of soup fall dead before your eyes - that stays with you.

speaker1: are you sure he's this way? 
speaker2: absolutely.
speaker1: excuse me. have you seen arthur?
speaker3: that way. the ballroom.
speaker1: bye, justin.
speaker4: excuse me, madam. you're not an authorized guest.

speaker1: i know that. i'm here to give arthur some very important news. 
speaker2: of course you are. shall we discuss this outside?
speaker1: get your hands off me!
speaker3: it's okay, jeff. she can stay.
speaker1: arthur, can i talk to you?

speaker1: we ran tests. it was just a dizzy spell. we'll be sending her home tonight. 
speaker2: but what about the other blackouts?
speaker3: arthur, i'm fine. do not leave that party.

speaker1: especially now that naomi is there. 
speaker2: she's fine. they're sending her home. do you want a drink?

speaker1: no, thanks, arthur. i should go. 
speaker2: but you came all this way. there's ridiculously fancy food, there's...
speaker1: arthur. please. can you just call me a cab?
speaker2: you're a cab.
speaker2: hobson usually...
speaker1: orders cabs to take the girls away?
speaker2: thank you for coming all this way. i'm sorry for all the stupid presents and calls and gestures.
speaker1: it's okay.
speaker1: she was a looker from the get-go.
speaker2: what were you like as a kid?
speaker1: nuts. i thought the moon followed me. i would walk and think the moon went any place that i did. i thought it meant something special would happen. so i've been waiting. what an ass.

speaker1: dance? 
speaker2: arthur. we've been through this. call that cab please.

speaker1: to bombay, a travelling circus came, they brought an intelligent elephant and nellie was her name... 
speaker2: what the bejeezus is this?
speaker3: hobson used to sing it to me.
speaker3: one dark night, she slipped her iron chain. off she ran to hindustan and was never seen again. nellie the elephant packed her bags, and said goodbye to the circus, off she went with a trumpety trump, trump trump trump...
speaker4: is this the tour guide?
speaker3: she's a writer.
speaker2: is this the vivienne?
speaker4: crowded field, writing.

speaker1: maybe someone will see her potential. 
speaker2: we all know who's seen her potential.
speaker3: meaning?
speaker2: oh, of course, you don't know, do you?
speaker1: vivienne, please. don't...
speaker3: what is going on here?
speaker2: my son became fond of you. you're not the first. or the last, i imagine. anyway i was scanning his monthly expenses - which always makes for entertaining reading, all those gifts for all those girls - and found he'd bought an entire publishing company called...what was it now? rainbow press.
speaker3: you bought rainbow press? so you could tell them to publish my book?
speaker2: he knows people, dear. i'm sure you do too, though the people you know tend not to own books, let alone publishers. arthur, i trust we'll see you back at the party? susan's a little worried.
speaker1: naomi! please! i didn't think i would ever see you again. i was just trying to give you some...

speaker1: confidence? self esteem isn't a gift, arthur! it isn't a fur coat or a thousand billion orchids or an apartment made from truffles or whatever else you rich freaks use to express love! 
speaker2: i do express love! i love you!
speaker1: don't say that!
speaker2: you just told me to! and stop going on about me being rich! you think it's easy being trapped by money?
speaker1: hello, amnesty? come quick! arthur's being held against his will in guantamoney bay!
speaker2: abu greed?
speaker1: stop riffing with me! how dare you do what you did. i didn't need your money to feel good about myself!
speaker2: no. being cheap gives you that.
speaker1: huh?
speaker2: at least i'm prepared to have fun. to live. i'm not all `oooh look at me with my antique food, aren't i cool?' and...and...your phone's rubbish! it's made of bits of old doorbell and vibrator, i bet you can only get calls from 1994 on it!

speaker1: as long as i don't get any from a drunk, rich up like you! 
speaker2: hello? i heard shouting.
speaker1: i'm an employee of arthur's. i came to complain about the conditions.
speaker3: naomi, please...
speaker1: mr bach-templemead, i know you thought putting half and half in the staff kitchen was an improvement.

speaker1: because you changed the creamer? 
speaker1: arthur, marty called from the hospital.
speaker2: it's okay, hobson's fine. i spoke to her doctor.
speaker1: apparently you didn't.

speaker1: it's just a headache! 
speaker2: stop saying that! you bribed a hospital orderly to tell me you were okay!

speaker1: oh, bothersnaps. what do doctors know? 
speaker2: da dahhhh! i give you the amazing costly, health-giving presents!
speaker2: 'wake up and smell the carcass'.. `a compilation of the band's most stomach-churning music videos and deathly live performances...' he produces a darth vader helmet.
speaker2: put this on, please.
speaker1: i don't want to put it on.
speaker2: put it on. or i'll fire you.
speaker2: okay, or i won't fire you.
speaker1: how much did you waste on this poppycock?
speaker1: i see you've decided not to grow up after all.
speaker3: she sounds like darth invader!
speaker1: why, arthur?

speaker1: stargazer, known for her distinctive white mottled back... 
speaker1: ...is determined to catch the salmon, despite the treacherous rapids...
speaker2: mr bach-templemead? do you have a moment?

speaker1: how did this get here? 
speaker2: i have no idea.
speaker1: you might have a brain tumour but you're not a complete veggie burger just yet. has naomi been here?

speaker1: she dropped by once or twice. 
speaker2: i thought she gave up writing.
speaker1: just trying to spare her outright humiliation while i'm still here.
speaker2: don't wear yourself out. you're not going anywhere soon.
speaker2: world's most advanced heart rate monitor. the tiniest problem will alert your own private platoon of paramedics camped out downstairs...
speaker1: arthur. i've loved caring for you so much. but you'll never grow up with me around. so either i retire. or i die. option 1 involves too much paperwork and blather with having to find somewhere else to live. and no offence to you, dear boy...

speaker1: ...but i think we've exhausted the bear-based entertainment. which leaves option 2. 
speaker1: you're a good son, arthur. you can do anything with your life that you want. just like i did.

speaker1: but you spent half of it looking after a spoilt drunk twat. 
speaker2: exactly. sorry arthur. i'm past my use-by date.
speaker1: sorry, hobson, you don't win this one. i need you to care for me. now take your fish oil.

speaker1: would frog ever get up again? or would he just sit in his tank, crying and soiling himself until he died of dehydration because he didn't even have the energy to eat a wet sandwich. 
speaker1: hobson! why are you in there when i need you?

speaker1: arrrrgghhh! 
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: how's the tea?
speaker1: shockingly bad, thanks, marty.
speaker2: want to talk about the cubs game?
speaker1: nahhh. can i be alone please?

speaker1: naomi? i doubt you'll ever get this, because your voicemail probably consists of a 4000 year old woman who writes the message down in hieroglyphics then loses it down the back of her incontinence loin cloth. hobson died. hobson died and i've fallen apart... 
speaker1: marty! can you get that? marty!
speaker1: naomi? could you get it? hello?
speaker2: arthur! you haven't answered the phone for eight days. susan's beside herself. what's going on?

speaker1: what do you think's going on? 
speaker2: oh, that.
speaker2: chop chop! you cleany penthouseio! come on, arthur. have to pick yourself up, lad. it's like when nixon my great dane had to be put down. frightful state for days. but i pulled myself together.
speaker1: you're comparing hobson to...a dog?
speaker2: well, yes. a faithful, humble companion who...
speaker1: um, i think i'd like you to leave, if that's okay. now?
speaker2: remember who pays for this apartment, arthur. for everything!
speaker2: you had well better be at that wedding, boy.
speaker1: don't worry. if i'm going to drink myself to death i'll need resources. bye vivienne...
speaker2: it's mother!
speaker1: my mother's dead.
speaker1: hello? i'm sorry?

speaker1: the last will and testament of jane hobson. 
speaker1: `i leave my life savings to the tulare bear sanctuary, tulare county, california.' aherne hands mr finke a check for $8,864.
speaker2: that'll explain the strong smell of bear sorry.
speaker1: to arthur bach templemead, i leave this.
speaker1: to operate kettle, press red button. milk in refrigerator; that's the big box with the pretty light that comes on when you open the door.
speaker1: arthur. you're going to be okay. now it's your turn to look after someone. all my deepest, fondest love, my dearest boy. i'm smiling down at you - or more likely, up at you - forever and ever, h xxxxxxxx.

speaker1: i just want you to know, if he doesn't show up for this wedding, i can't know what i'll do. 
speaker2: don't worry, burt. he's cleaned himself up. he's stopped drinking, he's anxious to get a real job.

speaker1: due to a tragic error in the architect's drawing, the original statue of liberty unveiled in 1886 was just seven inches tall. 100,000 new yorkers rioted, having come expecting to see something more impressive than a garden gnome holding up an ice cream... 
speaker2: naomi!
speaker2: you're on a bus? with a microphone?
speaker1: girl's gotta have a dream.
speaker2: naomi. can you take the next 60 years off?
speaker1: are you okay? you're a mess. you look like you...now.
speaker2: sorry. i accidentally swallowed three bottles of hand sanitizer.

speaker1: drinking was the only way i could get the courage to come here and say this: i don't need the money. i love the money. but i don't lie awake all night wondering how i'll live without ever seeing it again. i just wonder what it's like to go 24 hours without a steak tartare. 
speaker1: the american express centurion card - you have to spend at least $250,000 a year to keep it, which i blow in a quiet week.
speaker1: sotheby's `world elite' mastercard for art collectors.
speaker1: and king of all idiotic reckless-

speaker1: insanity: the visa black card. 
speaker2: pin 3487. daily atm limit $180,000.
speaker2: the world's only platinum iphone. with police radio app.
speaker2: alexander amosu. vicuna wool, shorn once every three years from the south american camelid - $50,000.

speaker1: westmancott trousers, ten months to design, fit and make. $21,000. 
speaker1: who wants the watch neil armstrong wore to step on the sun!
speaker1: these are from the gap.
speaker2: i'm so sorry about hobson.
speaker1: i'm sorry about the rainbow press.
speaker2: it's okay. so how did susan take it that you're not marrying her?
speaker1: she didn't.
speaker2: you haven't told her?
speaker1: what's it to you? she's your arch- enemy.
speaker2: are you six? she isn't my enemy.
speaker1: i couldn't tell her! today's the biggest day of her life!
speaker2: the wedding's today? when?

speaker1: 12. which is... where's my watch gone? 
speaker2: it's eight minutes to.
speaker1: it's too late, then.
speaker1: i don't know her number! it's in my phone's address book in that gloop.
speaker2: church?
speaker1: st. john the divine. can we please just get me some clothes...
speaker2: st john..fourth largest church in the world...111th and amsterdam. it's about four miles. better hurry.
speaker1: you want me to go there? like this?
speaker2: what's the alternative? jilt susan at the altar? can i expect the same treatment when you dump me?
speaker1: no! i love you!
speaker2: c'mon, folks...
speaker1: naomi! susan's dad will...

speaker1: arthur. prove you're not the same pampered little boy who can have what he wants then toss it aside when he's bored. then we'll talk. 
speaker2: naomi! i don't even know the way!
speaker1: 5th...right on broadway...left at times...right on 7th...back on broadway....right on amsterdam. the church is the big stone pointy thing full of rich people.

speaker1: um, can anyone spare... how much to st. john the divine please? 
speaker2: about 15 bucks...
speaker1: can anyone spare $15 please?
speaker2: what about tip? you cheapskate?

speaker1: the crowd just stare back. the taxi drives away. 
speaker2: stop! stop! arthur looks at a street clock: 11:53.

speaker1: gather round for the nearly naked yoga man - yogi bare! i give you... 
speaker1: `chicken forgetting birthday'...

speaker1: excuse me, are there trains down there, like in films? 
speaker2: yes.

speaker1: excuse me. terribly sorry to bother you, but... 
speaker1: crikey. thanks.

speaker1: ...originally a rough neighbourhood. some say it was called 42nd street because it wasn't safe to spend more than forty seconds on it. 
speaker2: excuse me.
speaker1: if you burst into song, you're off this bus.
speaker2: huh? i want to see st. john the divine.
speaker1: sorry, sir, that's not on our route today. anyway...
speaker3: i want to know if arthur's gonna make it.
speaker4: you should be there for him.
speaker2: it says here `ask about your personalised tours'. i want the personalised tour. to st. john the divine!
speaker5: so do i! st. john the divine, st.

speaker1: ah! i'm trying to get to... 
speaker2: hey!

speaker1: susan? 
speaker2: arthur? what's going on?
speaker1: susan. i can't...i can't...
speaker2: what?
speaker1: the girl at the party? the one who talked all that rubbish about coffee mate? i love her.
speaker2: shut up! we're getting married!
speaker1: but i don't love you!
speaker2: and you think i love you?
speaker1: well, yes. what's not to...

speaker1: i never have. 
speaker2: susan, you're upset, you hate me. it's okay. now i'm sorry, i have to go, or your dad's going to do whatever he did to your boyfriend from college.
speaker1: daddy never hurt alex. he paid her parents to send her away..
speaker2: her? you're..a...
speaker1: lesbian. yes. you may have noticed that daddy is homophobic. he swore he'd disown me if it happened again.
speaker2: but...why do you want to marry...
speaker2: hang on. am i your beard?
speaker1: why else do you think i'd spend more than 30 seconds in your company? you're the perfect cover.
speaker2: have you been pretending to like dane cook as well?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: wow. wow. well. uh... thanks for your honesty. i don't feel so bad about calling this off.

speaker1: arthur, please. you can drink as much as you like, sneak off to naomi. we keep the money. we live our lives. everyone wins. 
speaker2: i may be a weak, pathetic drunk. but i won't marry a lesbian dane cook fan.

speaker1: ...and the first turned to the second horse and said `that dog just spoke'. 
speaker1: the joke being that it's inconsistent that the horses can speak but the dog can't.
speaker1: the wedding's off. the bride has had second thoughts. i can't say i blame her. would you marry me?

speaker1: you won't be seeing me again, as i'm going to be poor. i'll be shopping at the 99 cent store. six pork chops for under a dollar! 
speaker1: great. i'm glad we had this talk. i'll let you get on with the wedding....

speaker1: daddy, no! stop it! 
speaker2: burt! get off my son!

speaker1: you wouldn't hurt me. 
speaker2: wouldn't i? you crushed me.
speaker1: i just wanted you to be happy.
speaker2: you wanted to stop me being a lesbian!
speaker1: shut up! shut up you dirty little harlot!

speaker1: you want some more, huh? 
speaker2: erica, that's enough, honey.
speaker3: why didn't you tell me? we could have worked something out.
speaker3: i'm joking.

speaker1: ow! stop it! why are you doing that? 
speaker2: because i hate an infection! keep still.
speaker1: no, you keep still.
speaker2: what are we going to do, arthur?
speaker1: i'll get a job. i'll model cheap riding boots for people with no horses. you can write books about boys whose lungs have run away.
speaker3: stop this!

speaker1: a bach-templemead has never been poor and we're not about to try that experiment with you, arthur. that said, you've shown strength of character for once, instead of blubbing on about frogs and friendship. the inheritance is yours. all i ask is, with hobson gone, you finally start treating me like a mother. 
speaker2: sorry, vivienne. i can't do that.
speaker1: i beg your pardon?
speaker2: you've never earned that title. i wouldn't fake it with susan. i won't with you.
speaker1: arthur. i will withdraw this offer forever. don't doubt me, boy.
speaker2: i don't.
speaker2: take care, viv.
speaker1: arthur! arthur! i am serious! if you walk out of that door...

speaker1: owww! my eyes! i'm blind! 
speaker1: what the hell's in this shampoo? napalm? it sure as isn't tea tree oil...
speaker2: package for you. with any luck an apartment for you and lurch.
speaker1: i thought you liked me.
speaker2: i may have been seduced by money.

speaker1: `can i be your friend at least? love, vivienne xxx. p.s. lunch sometime? p.p.s. the inheritance is yours. it always was.' arthur looks at naomi, at ralph, at marty. 
speaker2: on balance, i'd go for it.
speaker3: money good.
speaker4: you were never happy rich, honey. it's only been a month. be strong. remember: however hard life gets, love will always find a way.

