MARCO: ... this way --? 
LAURENT: yes, well -- i see the captain enjoys the road less travelled.
MARCO: the captain enjoys not dragging his down the highway for every tom, and qadhafi to take a whack at.

LAURENT: well. of course it is very bad, here. 
MARCO: mines?
LAURENT: tricky. swedish-made.
MARCO: dammit.
MARCO: nobody at command said anything about --
LAURENT: exxon and global petroleum hired private contractors to do the work in '86, as part of their asset security program. hired an iraqi firm, in fact, who, now, well -- only they know where the little nordic are planted.
MARCO: sgt. shaw! no response.
MARCO: sergeant.
RAYMOND: sir.
MARCO: rolling in two minutes.
RAYMOND: yes sir.
MARCO: everything okay?

MAVOLE: yo melvin. you gonna play that hand, or hatch it? 
RAYMOND: we're moving out.

RAYMOND: captain? 
MARCO: sergeant?
RAYMOND: why don't i ever ride in the bradley with the other enlisted personnel?

MARCO: maybe i enjoy your company, sergeant. 
RAYMOND: sir, i don't want to be singled out for special treatment because of my mother's position --
MARCO: too late for that, shaw. as a charter member of the lucky sperm club your benefits include unlimited suck-up from high-ranking officers hoping to curry congressional favor for their future career moves. but. if you want to ride in the bradley, hey, i got no objections.
RAYMOND: trust me, sir, i don't wish to ride in the bradley with the others, i'm just ... the men don't care for me very much.
MARCO: no, they don't. but. on the plus side, you don't really like them, either.
RAYMOND: that's absolutely correct, captain.
MARCO: so. see? it, you know. balances out.
LAURENT: -- uh-oh.

31: behind the podium. takes a sip of water, then: 
MARCO: -- and with complete disregard for his own life and safety, sgt. shaw single- handedly engaged an entire company of the enemy --

FLASH FORWARD: MAJOR MARCO: behind the podium, repeating himself: 
MARCO: -- of the enemy --

35: behind the podium. 
MARCO: -- and finally dividing and defeating an overwhelmingly superior force.

ANOTHER SCOUT: were you wounded? 
MARCO: i was --

RESUME - AUDITORIUM - MARCO: he blinks. 
MARCO: -- injured. i fell, had a, uh, concussion -- lost focus -- sgt. shaw took command --
SCOUT DAD: did your unit sustain any casualties?
MARCO: yes. two. two of my people were killed.
MARCO: the medal of honor is the highest award to which any soldier can aspire. from the jungles of iwo jima to the desert of kuwait, what these brave men i've talked about today did will never be forgotten. since 1917, only 827 medals have been given to a total of more than 30 million americans in arms. only three have been awarded in the last 40 years. who knows? maybe someday one of you fine boys will earn one yourself in defense of this great nation. a scoutmaster, thin, bearded, stands up:

MARCO: thanks for listening. my family has claimed the army as a trade ever since a young gunnery officer who grew up with hernando de soto left spain for a look at the upper mississippi. my life is in service to my country. 
MELVIN: you ever wish it'd been you?
MARCO: excuse me?
MELVIN: won the medal. been the hero.
MARCO: no, i'm just proud to have been there. he sits down. spattering of polite applause.

MELVIN: major marco. 
MELVIN: it's al melvin, sir. corporal melvin. from your unit. desert storm.
MARCO: melvin. -- how are you --
MELVIN: i have these dreams, major.
MARCO: dreams.

MELVIN: yeah. kuwait. you and me. mavole, and baker. raymond shaw. see, i remember it happened the way you just said. and then i don't. 
MARCO: well, we had a pretty rough time over there, al, it was hairy, and -- it was a long time ago, now. memories shift.
MELVIN: do you have dreams, sir?
MARCO: everybody has dreams, corporal --
MELVIN: not these.
MARCO: no i don't.
MELVIN: it's bad, sir. it's making me crazy. i write it down, every night, after i wake up, i try to get it all -- it doesn't always go together -- all of what i can remember, and --
MARCO: -- al, you know, maybe you should be going to the va and talking to a doctor, i mean if these dreams are really --
MELVIN: -- i've been to doctors!
MELVIN: i'm so stuck, sir. i mean -- i remember shaw saving us, but it does not make sense -- it should have been you. and shaw, he --

MARCO: well, that's -- it's over and done. we've got to move on -- 
MELVIN: i can't get my hand around it. i thought maybe, if you had the dreams ...
MARCO: you need money --?
MELVIN: no. no sir.
MARCO: -- here --
MELVIN: i don't need your money.
MARCO: okay. okay. well, look, al, i gotta --
MELVIN: go.
MARCO: -- run, yeah. but.

WOMAN: -- thirty seven. 
WOMAN: from the landing. every week it gets longer. i'm worried about you.
MARCO: from the landing. every week it gets longer. i'm worried about you.
MARCO: none of these involve slave traders or sheiks, abby. i checked.
WOMAN: what do i owe you?
MARCO: a smile.

RAYMOND: ... i am ... a professional politician. not. 
ELLIE: raymond? darling, what were you going to do, make me stand out there like room service?
ELLIE: i asked downstairs and miss freeman, your 'wrangler' -- helpful ms. freeman -- said you were up here practicing your speech. honestly, i don't understand why you insist upon isolating yourself, people adore you, raymond, they crave your company and yet here you are, holed up, as if you were some kind of emotionally challenged individual like your father instead of raymond prentiss shaw, a handsome, intelligent, people-loving war hero with a great deal to offer to his party and his country.
RAYMOND: no.
ELLIE: no what? baby, i haven't even asked you a question. your hair is too flat. and that tie. the tie is wrong.

RAYMOND: no to the question you're going to ask. no to all the questions you pretend to want to ask -- 
ELLIE: something a little less busy.
RAYMOND: -- and no you may not engage in your usual back-door political thuggery to shovel me onto the presidential ticket.
ELLIE: oh. you're not interested? i thought you were. did i miss my cue?
RAYMOND: of course i'm interested -- i wouldn't be here if i wasn't -- but not if it means attacking the reputation of a statesman like thomas jordan, which i'm sure was your plan. let democracy run its course, mother. let the people decide. now ellie stares at him, mouth agape.
RAYMOND: what.
ELLIE: i'm sorry, for a second there i thought it was your father speaking -- that dreaded shaw blood rising -- and the stink of defeat made me nauseous.
RAYMOND: mother --
ELLIE: and excuse me, when have i ever attacked the honorable mr. jordan, despite the shameful way his daughter misled you that summer at the shore.
RAYMOND: mother, you chased her away --
ELLIE: if that's how you want to remember it.
RAYMOND: -- you ruined everything.

ELLIE: honey, you're oversimplifying things somewhat -- but, yes, okay -- i promise, promise i will stay out of it. you have my word. 
ELLIE: after all, you're young and you have plenty of party conventions ahead of you in which to discover, as your father did, that democracy is an elusive and imperfect science, and the meek do not happily inherit the earth, but simply get eaten by the alpha dogs, chewed up, digested and deposited on the carefully mown parkways of american politics.
ELLIE: one day, you will, i'm sure, tearfully memorialize me in your acceptance speech. don't you have a different tie in here? your grandfather always let me pick his ties.
RAYMOND: i'm wearing the one i have on.

ELLIE: bluffing? 
GILLESPIE: that was the inference.
ELLIE: they should be down on their fat white knees thanking me for saving this party from committing political seppuku.

UTLY: the decision is final, senator. tom jordan is on the ticket. we don't need your blessing, but we'd like it. 
ELLIE: before we get started, i'm dying to know: which genius here hatched the scheme of pairing a sound bite from nebraska with a relic who thinks keeping suicide bombers off our busses is unconstitutional?
UTLY: all the research indicates that an arthur- jordan ticket sits quite well with the american public and --
ELLIE: 'sits quite well' translates into how many votes?
SENATOR WELLS: your son is largely unknown outside of new york. his public service, his congressional record, while commendable, is --
ELLIE: my son is a war hero.
CONGRESSMAN FLORES: governor arthur has agreed to consider raymond for a cabinet post.

ELLIE: we didn't come here to have a discussion. 
SENATOR WELLS: ellie, you don't have the votes to block this, or even push the nomination to a second ballot.
ELLIE: even running against this cut-and-fold vice president, with his party's record of abysmal failure at home and abroad, arthur is still unelectable without help. consider. the governor is a corn-belt candidate who -- scratch and sniff -- looks and smells alot like the kind of liberal-labor-intellectual dukakis was, but without, thank the helmet. assume our intrepid arthur can carry the northeast, plus his home ground, and california. we're still dead in the south, and southwest, where they win by landslides. the mid-central is a toss- up. tom jordan actually becomes a liability in florida because of his castro-appeasement profile, and in the carolinas, where he fumbles the military vote over his "terrorism isn't a war it's a social disease" nonsense. the room is surreally silent. ellie spins and moves like a televangelist, preaching to the frightened faithful.
ELLIE: you know this. your own polls and surveys back me up. you're counting on jordan to help you get the black vote, women, college kids -- my gut instinct says he won't -- and arthur holding the center -- where he's soft at best. and who's to say the president won't throw troops into another third- world skirmish, pushing his sidekick's approval ratings up into the eighties again, and the campaign off the front pages?

UTLY: we're confident this is a winning ticket, ellie. 
ELLIE: what's your margin of error? five points? three? i can swing that, and you know it. i can swing seven away from you -- more than enough to split the party and --
ELLIE: america is facing the greatest test of its history, gentlemen. not just from terrorist organizations both outside and within our borders, but from covert alliances of disaffected nations so terrified of winding up on our list they believe the only way to protect themselves is to hit us with everything they can find before we get around to them. am i the only one in this room paying attention to the nsa reports? we are on the brink of nuclear cataclysm, on our own soil, while our policies remain shackled by jordan-style one worlders who insist that human beings are essentially good ... and that power is something shameful, and evil. make no mistake, the people of this great country are frightened. they know what's coming. they can feel it. and we can shovel them the same old and call it sugar, or arm them, with a young, vibrant, populist congressman, a war hero with heart -- forged by enemy fire, in the desert, in the dark, when american lives hung in the balance.

REPORTER #1: -- like a long shot catching the favorite on the back stretch of the derby ... 
MEDIA ICON: raymond shaw bears the lineage of the fabled prentiss family dynasty -- grandson of legendary industrialist and diplomat tyler prentiss, son of controversial senator eleanor prentiss shaw, who took over the seat vacated by her husband, the esteemed john shaw, when he died tragically over twenty years ago.
MEDIA ICON: for many, raymond prentiss shaw is an enigma: millionaire harvard honors student who enlists in the military --
MEDIA ICON: -- refusing the officer's commission to which he was entitled. the medal of honor winner beloved by the men of the 'lost patrol' he saved from an enemy ambush, and then guided back across the open desert to safety --

MEDIA ICON: the war hero who dedicated himself to public service after desert storm ... 
MEDIA ICON: ... the revolutionary science of bio- genetics, which has, literally --

WOMAN'S VOICE: -- transformed the common garden tomato, through genome-level intervention, from that fragile, fickle, vulnerable fruit one must struggle to simply nurture to maturity -- 
WOMAN'S VOICE: -- into a resilient, dependable, categorically superior individual in every conceivable way -- -- moving through

MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: -- strappingly resistant to parasite, disease, over-ripening and systemic failure -- while, at the same time, fiercely heat and water tolerant -- 
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: -- yet -- note the complexity of the frontal lobe -- nevertheless retaining a sweet, juicy plumpness reminiscent of the finest english beefsteak or italian plum.
MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: those of you with ties to the intelligence community may recall the cia's misguided mk-ultra program, the kgb's novichok research, and similar half- assed ventures in great britain and china -- under the lay term of 'mind control.'

MYSTERIOUS WOMAN: street-corner schizophrenics with tin foil on their heads offer sad proof of the failure of those endeavors. 
MYST. W./NOYLE'S VOICE: i can assure you, this is a whole new ball game.

NOYLE: -- when you're rescued and returned with your patrol to command headquarters, what will be among the first duties you will undertake? 56 on marco all rigged up with his wires -- 56 
MARCO: i'll recommend sergeant shaw for the medal of honor, ma'am. he saved our lives, terminated the enemy and led us across the desert to safety.
NOYLE: yes. brilliant. but there were casualties?
MARCO: there are always casualties, ma'am.

NOYLE: our candidate's course of treatment will, of course, involve considerably more sophisticated intervention over a sustained time period, to ensure that a stable mechanism is irrevocably in place. we employ a kind of neurocellular conversion. psychological abreaction through genomic repurposing. "but dr. noyle, all the literature -- all the literature says you cannot make an individual act against his deepest moral nature -- or his own self interest." hmmm. let's see. sgt. shaw. ever killed anyone? 
RAYMOND: no ma'am.
NOYLE: not even in combat?
RAYMOND: no ma'am.

NOYLE: brilliant. casualty time. 
RAYMOND: captain.
MARCO: sergeant.
NOYLE: raymond. suffocate private mavole.
MAVOLE: whoawhoa -- wait -- wait a sec --
NOYLE: and at the instant he completes this, or any task, raymond has already forgotten that he has ever been involved in it.

MARCO: yes sir. no sir. 
MARCO: the meds make me ... spongy. i float.
LT. COL. HOWARD: the meds help you sleep.
MARCO: when i sleep, i dream. i don't want to dream, sir.
LT. COL. HOWARD: you're off your meds, sleep-deprived, you have an unexpected encounter with a member of your gulf war recon team, al melvin, who mentions some dreams he's been having --
MARCO: dreams like mine.
LT. COL. HOWARD: -- and suddenly your own bad dreams come charging back. made worse by your chronic fear of them. add in all the recent campaign news about congressman shaw, which is obviously rekindling your feelings of guilt and jealousy --
MARCO: -- i'm not jealous of raymond shaw, sir.
LT. COL. HOWARD: okay. how did you feel when you heard the news from the convention?

LT. COL. HOWARD: a shrug isn't a feeling. 
MARCO: i felt ... fine. no big deal.
LT. COL. HOWARD: fine.
MARCO: yes. glad for him. he deserves it. raymond shaw is probably the kindest, bravest, warmest --

LT. COL. HOWARD: you're with me, major. 
MARCO: no sir. i wouldn't do that, sir.
LT. COL. HOWARD: what other conclusion can i draw?
LT. COL. HOWARD: look, we've been over this a million times. until you forgive yourself for what happened that night in kuwait, the loss of your men -- for what you did, for what you didn't do ...
LT. COL. HOWARD: how's public affairs?
MARCO: it sir. i want to get back to intelligence.
LT. COL. HOWARD: then for sake, ben, go back on your meds. and stay on them, this time. get some sleep. i'll see you in two weeks.
MARCO: yes sir. same time, same station.

GENERAL SLOAN: no offense, major, but it chaps my we gotta have a babysitter. 
MARCO: sir, i'm just here to keep you from getting into fist-fights with the navy guys.

GENERAL WILSON: major marco -- 
MARCO AND THE GENERALS: marco forced to pull his gaze away from raymond:
GENERAL WILSON: -- this army of two's gonna do some recon on the no host bar.

ELLIE: -- billions of dollars, thousands of troops, sacrificed on behalf of a disastrous foreign policy which has only served to galvanize our enemies -- 
GENERAL WILSON: they oughta put up a crossing guard.
GENERAL SLOAN: or rig her with an air horn.

RAYMOND: i mean -- that's supposed to be the whole point of this great country, isn't it? that everybody matters. not just the people at this party -- no offense -- but the people who can't afford to be here. 
ELLIE: raymond -- -- sorry to interrupt --
ELLIE: you must learn not to let yourself get cornered by the bottom-feeders.
RAYMOND: including you?

ELLIE: i devour everything in my path, darling, top or bottom, you know that. 
ELLIE: hello mark.
WHITING: eleanor! congratulations, raymond. your grandad would be so proud of you.
RAYMOND: nice to see you mark. thanks.
ELLIE: -- raymond, this is j.b. johnston, from manchurian global --
RAYMOND: yes, hi --
ELLIE: -- and david donovan, their managing director.
RAYMOND: -- and co-chair of the u.s. international policy caucus.
RAYMOND: go away, mother. you've earned your fee.
ELLIE: the plucky idealist.

RAYMOND: gentlemen, how's business? 
WHITING: good, raymond. business is good.
JOHNSTON: could always be better.
RAYMOND: careful. any better, you'll be a monopoly.
DONOVAN: there's the challenge. maximizing the market share and potential of a company.
WHITING: or a country.

REAR ADMIRAL GLICK: every great civilization has been anchored by a great navy. 
GENERAL SLOAN: you guys are sea chum, ripe for some with a rocket launcher to put a hole in your bucket.
MARCO: congressman -- sergeant shaw -- raymond turning, but not stopping --

MARCO: ben marco. 
RAYMOND: i know. hello captain.
MARCO: -- okay.

JORDAN: -- the political extortion you committed in order to destroy my vice presidential bid so that -- 
ELLIE: tom.
JORDAN: -- so that you might vicariously bask in reflected limelight from your son --
ELLIE: tom, please, just because the party felt a younger, more dynamic man could help the ticket, i don't think it's fair for you to single me out and --
JORDAN: you know, i have such contempt for you, eleanor, that when i think of you, i actually fear for this country. raymond is nothing. a riddle. a wild card at worst. but you, you are the smiler who wraps her dagger in the cloak of the flag and waits for her chance to strike. which i pray will never come. he wheels away --

JOCELYN: ... but raymond, my it's been so many years -- i've been married and divorced -- 
RAYMOND: i've changed too.
JOCELYN: that's not what i -- but, yes, it's great, really -- i see that you have -- congratulations --
RAYMOND: -- but my feelings haven't. changed, i mean ...
RAYMOND: ... i guess i've never stopped -- feeling -- wondering -- how it might have turned out, you know, between us, if --
JOCELYN: raymond -- people can't rewrite their lives --
RAYMOND: jocie, i haven't even been with another girl since we ... stopped seeing each other -- doesn't that say something to you?
JOCELYN: that you must be just about the loneliest person on earth, and it breaks my heart.
JOCELYN: i've got to go -- good luck with the campaign.

MARCO: sergeant raymond shaw -- raymond turns -- 
RAYMOND: what?
MARCO: i want to talk to you too.
RAYMOND: -- not now.
MARCO: -- i know you're busy -- i just have to ask you --
MARCO: i saw al melvin the other day -- remember corporal melvin? raymond yanks his arm away --
RAYMOND: don't touch me.
MARCO: okay -- sorry -- but -- melvin, he's extremely disturbed about what happened to us, on the recon patrol, back in kuwait --
RAYMOND: don't ever touch me.
MARCO: sorry.
ANDERSON: tried the pad thai, major? i'm told it rules.
CLOSE - COLONEL GARRET: tense and unsmiling.

MARCO: i don't know, sir. it isn't so much what he said, or didn't say -- but his demeanor, his attitude. 
COLONEL GARRET: i think you hoped congressman shaw would say, "yes, major, i've had those same dreams. tomatoes and sandstorms. you're not nuts, there's some crazy going down here." marco says nothing.
COLONEL GARRET: major, we've been down this road with you before, yes?
MARCO: no, sir, not this road, sir. but i hear what you're saying, and i want to do this through the proper channels.
LT. COL. HOWARD: are you back on your meds?
MARCO: lt. colonel howard -- with respect -- i've had a dozen years of experts telling me i've got gulf war syndrome, or a stress disorder. twelve years being a good soldier, denying what every nerve ending in my body tells me is more real than not. one dream, over and over. not variations on a dream, the same one, night after night after night --
LT. COL. HOWARD: -- your guilt and your jealousy require you to construct this ... elaborate fiction, so that you --

MARCO: -- no sir. something happened to us, in the desert, ten years ago. not what we thought it was. and it happened on my watch. beat. 
COLONEL GARRET: have you contacted any other members of the unit besides shaw and melvin? asked them about the dreams?
MARCO: owens died of cancer in '97. villalobos, a car crash. atkins committed suicide. jamison was at the pentagon, 9-11, body never recovered. wilson i'm still trying to track down.
MARCO: sir, i know i can't ask you to talk to congressman shaw, not yet, but al melvin, it's a phone call, a quick qanda -- look at his notebooks, hear what he's been dreaming -- and either he will support the credibility of what i'm saying, or he won't. and i'll shut up.
COLONEL GARRET: and what is it you are saying, exactly, major? that you misrepresented -- falsified -- what happened in kuwait? about the medal of honor? in effect, committed perjury.
MARCO: if you just talk to melvin --
COLONEL GARRET: -- no, no, i'm sorry -- you're saying an entire squad of u.s. army soldiers was hypnotized into believing that raymond shaw deserved the medal of honor. and somehow you're the only one who knows the truth.

COLONEL GARRET: major marco. you will stay clear of congressman shaw. 
MARCO: yes sir.
LT. COL. HOWARD: and you will resume your meds, major.
MARCO: yes sir.
COLONEL GARRET: major, do you ever take a step back and consider why you've remained at rank for all these years? missed bosnia, afghanistan, iraqi freedom. while men of lesser promise and inferior talent have enjoyed the fruits of those campaigns and moved beyond you?
MARCO: every day, sir.

T.V. MODERATOR: congressman shaw -- your rebuttal? 
MARCO: hello, victor? marco. how's it goin'? public affairs my friend. i miss you guys. listen, favor: guy from my old unit, melvin, alfred r. -- i need an

RAYMOND: there are gaps in this country. ugly chasms that we need to bridge ... 
RAYMOND: ... the gap between rich and poor, between government and people --

RAYMOND: ... between what is real and what is not. 
DESK CLERK: dontcha love this guy?

RAYMOND: the weasel is a weasel. frog and toad are friends. 
ANDERSON: sir, we'll be right outside.
RAYMOND: i know. good night.

RAYMOND: you have thirty seconds, mother. 
ELLIE: am i this predictable?
RAYMOND: you have no idea.
ELLIE: i'm calling to compliment you, mr. grumpy. i thought you were magnificent tonight. so do all the network campaign experts. "presidential" was a word they used.
ELLIE: this compassionate vigilance thing is working quite well for you. i might have to convert.
RAYMOND: i happen to believe in it.
ELLIE: of course you do. now raymond --
RAYMOND: goodnight, mother.
ELLIE: raymond --

RAYMOND: punches the line, lifts the receiver -- 
RAYMOND: yes?
VOICE ON THE PHONE: sergeant shaw?
RAYMOND: who is this?
VOICE ON THE PHONE: sergeant raymond shaw?
RAYMOND: yes ...?
VOICE ON THE PHONE: raymond prentiss shaw?
RAYMOND: yes.
VOICE ON THE PHONE: listen: enter the bathroom, and go to the closet there.

NOYLE: hello raymond. do you remember me? 
RAYMOND: no sir.
NOYLE: brilliant. we have twenty minutes for our little check up from the neck up.

BLINK.: 83 another call. 83 
MARCO: ... no, mr. villalobos, i'm just -- army's got me running statistics on stress disorders, i'm trying to gather information on my old squad members ...

NOYLE: no decay, no slippage. everything appears to be in flawless working condition. raymond can you remember the deaths of mavole and baker? 
RAYMOND: yes.
NOYLE: describe it.
MARCO: ... al? you in there?

LAURENT TOKAR: sitting down across from him. smiling. 
LAURENT: is this seat taken?

MARCO: this is delaware. 
ROSIE: i know. but, maryland, it's a beautiful state anyway. he's staring at her, trying to figure out --
ROSIE: paper or plastic.
MARCO: what?
ROSIE: from the grocery store. you were wondering where, we, you know -- and right at the check-out stand, "paper or plastic," that's me. i see you all the time. bennett marco. checks from the first national bank, and you always put your spare change into the march of dimes thing. romance novels, instant noodles, no-doz and tomatoes. anyway, i'm on vacation, holiday in the city and so forth, i saw you sitting here ... i thought, okay, girl -- it's now or never.
ROSIE: you headed to new york city?
MARCO: yeah.
ROSIE: business?
MARCO: no. guy i knew ... in the army. he's in politics now. we've kinda lost touch. what's your name?
ROSIE: eugenie.
MARCO: 'scuse me?

ROSIE: yeah. crazy french pronunciation and all. 
MARCO: it's pretty.
ROSIE: thanks.
MARCO: i guess your friends call you jenny.
ROSIE: not yet they haven't, thank but you can call me jenny.
MARCO: what do your friends call you?
ROSIE: rosie. my full name is eugenie rose. i've always liked the rosie part better.
MARCO: still. when i asked you your name, you said it was eugenie.
ROSIE: yeah. well. maybe 'cause i was feeling fragile. at the time. beat. their eyes lock. marco blinks --

ROSIE: my mother would tell you to wash these. 
ROSIE: i didn't mean to upset you.
MARCO: it's not you, it's me. i'm not -- my head -- -- nothing's ... i wish i smoked.
ROSIE: it's way overrated.
MARCO: rosie, i'm gonna go in here, wash my face, take my pill, and get myself together.

MARCO: ... yeah. 
ROSIE: you've been in here twenty minutes. i thought you'd fallen off.

MARCO: no. i'm okay, thanks. 
ROSIE: your friend gonna meet you here?
MARCO: no.
ROSIE: el dorado 59970. my cell phone, in case you -- you know. i like to say it the old way -- can you remember the number, or should i write it on your chest with a sharpie?
MARCO: i'll remember.
ROSIE: you're sweating.
MARCO: what?
ROSIE: listen. you got a place to go and get freshened up?

ROSIE: -- it's my cousin's apartment. she's in cleveland with the road company of 'mamma mia.' there's ... a view of the park ... if you go out on the fire escape and kinda ... tilt your head ... 
ROSIE: i'm nervous. i'm sorry. i yak when i get nervous.

MARCO: me, i get quiet. 
ROSIE: you okay?
MARCO: dreams, i've been having these --
ROSIE: is that what happened on the train?
MARCO: sort of.
MARCO: i could be dreaming you.
ROSIE: what if you are?
MARCO: you'd be the best dream i've had in a long time, rosie.
ROSIE: if that's a line, ben marco, it kinda worked.

ROSIE'S VOICE: ben? 
TIGHT - MARCO'S HAND: turning off the shower, hard --

MARCO: -- gone. 
MARCO: tell me you saw that.
MARCO: you didn't. you didn't see it.
ROSIE: see what?
MARCO: proof.

ROSIE: of what? 
MARCO: my sanity.

MARCO: this wasn't a delusion. 
DELP: that's what they all say, marco. some wicked got sprayed on you guys during desert storm. besides all the depleted uranium, i mean ...

DELP: ... i personally know of a coupla rangers who swear that they see only in tertiary colors now -- 
MARCO: -- delp.
DELP: -- and can pick up sports talk radio in their cortical block if they get too close to a con-ed transformer.

MARCO: -- delp. it's not gws. 
DELP: a dozen years ago, the army did this tiny implantable i.d. thing -- you could imbed it under the skin, then scan it like a bar code for medical emergency information, blood-type, dna. pentagon ordered up half a million, and stuck about five thousand experimentally into high-risk soldiers and infantry. but the scanners proved skittish and field hospitals hated 'em, so the whole deal got eighty-sixed and forgotten.
MARCO: the army never put one in me.
DELP: that you know of, man. that you know of. how'd you find me?
MARCO: i looked under mad scientists in the yellow pages -- there was a full page ad.
DELP: ha ha.
DELP: you seriously believe somebody's messed with your mother board.
MARCO: what are you studying here, delp?
DELP: fear.
MARCO: for the agency?
DELP: nah, cia cut me loose in '97 during the macedonian debacle. now i got this little grant from wal-mart.

MARCO: look, delp. my experiences during the war, in kuwait ... feel dreamlike to me. and my dreams? about what happened? feel as real as you and me, here, right now. 
MARCO: it's like ... i feel like somewhere along the line, i've been ... brainwashed. or something. you know? all scrambled up.
DELP: we've all been brainwashed, marco. religion, advertising, television. politics. we accept what's normal because we're told it's normal and we crave normalcy. hell, look at the germans under hitler. disco, in the seventies. and if you're really worried about somebody imbedding electric probes and computer chips in your brain to make you do things -- it's horseshit, man. turns out pavlov had it right from the getgo. dogs and all. a little ect and sleep deprivation will do the trick for a fraction of the price. ask the uzbeks.
MARCO: what about my dreams?
DELP: what if all this is the dream and you're still back in kuwait?
MARCO: you're not helping me.
DELP: i am. you're not helping yourself. reality is consensual, man. you just gotta prove it up. or play it out.

REPORTER #2: congressman shaw! why do you and gov. arthur oppose deploying troops in indonesia? 
RAYMOND: we can't clean up the world with dirty hands.

RAYMOND: guys, i gave up a long time ago trying to second guess my mother. i'm just surprised the rest of you haven't. 
MARCO: do you ever dream about kuwait?
RAYMOND: i can never remember my dreams.
RAYMOND: -- it's okay. i know him, it's okay.

RAYMOND: i saw mavole's mom and dad in st. louis. i still visit them -- and baker's mom -- when i can. do you keep up with anybody from the unit besides al melvin? 
MARCO: i don't keep up with al melvin. he found me.
RAYMOND: why did you ask me about kuwait?
MARCO: i didn't. i asked you about your dreams. at the fundraiser -- why did you say you needed to talk to me?
MIRELLA: mr. shaw, excuse me -- they want to know if you'll do an interview with larry king at six.
RAYMOND: no. what do you want from me, captain?
MARCO: major. forty minutes of your time.
MIRELLA: no to the interview, or no to six?
RAYMOND: he wants to talk about my mother. no.
MARCO: private time.
RAYMOND: well, we've got about five minutes, right now. and this is as private as it gets for me anymore, so ... beat. he waits. anderson staring at marco.

MARCO: there are these dreams that ... some of the men in our unit have been having. 
RAYMOND: including you?
MARCO: it's a question of what actually happened the night our patrol was attacked --
RAYMOND: that's easy. rpg incoming. mortar fire, we're ambushed. total chaos. i can't locate baker or mavole. you're knocked unconscious -- i find you and pull you to safety and then --
MARCO: -- yeah, that's how i remember it, too. but i dream something else.

RAYMOND: am i in your dreams? 
MARCO: yeah.
RAYMOND: doing what?
MARCO: -- you know.
RAYMOND: saving everybody?

MARCO: it's more complicated than that. 
MARCO: people just don't have the same dreams accidentally -- -- melvin made drawings, he wrote down what he dreamed, this is one of his notebooks -- it's all in here.
RAYMOND: i don't have dreams, captain. maybe you should ... see somebody -- talk to somebody who specializes in this kind of thing --
MARCO: i've been to doctors. ... which is exactly what melvin said to him.
MARCO: okay. okay, i'm sorry.
MARCO: i'm not crazy, shaw.
RAYMOND: captain -- -- major. ben.
RAYMOND: are you hungry?

RAYMOND: i kill mavole? 
MARCO: it's a dream --
RAYMOND: no.
MARCO: -- could mean something else.
RAYMOND: no.
MARCO: -- could be i'm just supposed to think you did.
RAYMOND: -- i killed the enemy. i didn't know them, either. so it was okay. and, anyway, i remember what we did in kuwait, i remember it perfectly. but now that you mention it, i don't remember doing it ... exactly.
MARCO: maybe you didn't.
RAYMOND: no. what a thought.
RAYMOND: life is so bizarre, isn't it? this absurd campaign, the sordid world of politics, my whole public life and persona -- sometimes, occasionally, for an instant, the fog clears and i look and i think, what am i doing? i mean, what the am i doing? posing and grinning like a sock puppet, shaking hands with total strangers who must be blind if

RAYMOND: they can't see what i am, at the core. what my mother has made me. 
RAYMOND: a prentiss. ferociously, a prentiss -- but not a shaw, forbid -- i was molded by cold hard hands, every detail of my existence preordained. can you even imagine, ben, how it would feel never to have a say in what your life would be? i was twenty years old before i had a friend -- no, worse, a girlfriend -- well, almost -- but, yes, a friend, or i thought so -- outside my mother's circle of approved encounters -- and it didn't -- she wouldn't -- precipitating my one act of rebellion, storming off and enlisting -- -- in the army. which, ironically, only served ultimately to pad my gilded prentiss resume. you know: "fluent in five languages, phi beta kappa, congressional medal of honor, blah blah blah." and after the war i came back to her. and the family legacy. this. mother calls it, "fulfilling my manifest prentiss destiny."
MARCO: why did you come back, raymond? what happened?
RAYMOND: what?
RAYMOND: weren't you listening? mother happened. you know, the truth is, i hate it. i've always despised it.
MARCO: which?
RAYMOND: the medal. the cloying adulation of the little people. your pitiful jealousy --

MARCO: who said i was jealous? 
RAYMOND: i don't have the dreams, ben.
MARCO: how can you not remember saving the unit?
RAYMOND: i do. i said i did.
MARCO: you said you don't remember doing it.
RAYMOND: ha ha, don't mix me up, i'm tired, and -- fine. it's like this. it's as if i know what will happen, ben, but i never get to the part where i feel that it actually did happen. but i think that's probably perfectly normal.
MARCO: did you ever talk to anybody about this little discrepancy?
RAYMOND: what? no. who would i ask? my old army "buddies," who love and adore me for saving their pathetically unimportant -- present company excluded -- asses?
MARCO: no. you ask army intelligence. look, we can go together, tomorrow. you tell them what you just told me, everything you do remember, what you don't "exactly" remember, about kuwait, let 'em run some tests on you --
RAYMOND: i'm sure the press would have a field day with that.
MARCO: raymond. they put an implant in me. i found it yesterday. maybe they put one in you.
RAYMOND: nobody's put anything in me.

MARCO: great. let's prove it. we can go get an x-ray -- we can check it right now -- marco moves toward him, raymond backs away -- 
RAYMOND: i want to be supportive of you, ben, i do, but --
MARCO: just check your back, raymond --
RAYMOND: -- this can wait until after the election.
MARCO: what are you afraid of? see if there's a bump.
RAYMOND: you should leave. this is not, this is not --
MARCO: -- just check --
RAYMOND: there's nothing there!
MARCO: somebody was in your head, with big steel- toe boots, a couple of cable cutters and a chainsaw, and they went to town! neurons got wasted, circuits rewired, brain cells obliterated -- knocking at the door:
ANDERSON: congressman shaw?
MARCO: -- you don't even know what they did! you don't -- you can't conceive what they did to you -- and you're worried about some lame-ass reporters!?

MARCO: if i'm wrong they can put me the away -- 
ANDERSON: -- are you okay?
RAYMOND: ben --
MARCO: -- there -- there's -- something --
ANDERSON: he bit him. sir, did he bite you?
RAYMOND: no.
ANDERSON: sir --

RAYMOND: no. that'd be political suicide. of course not. i want you to help him. 
ELLIE: i can't even imagine why.
RAYMOND: because i feel sorry for him. because i said i would.
ELLIE: what should we do? make him a general?
RAYMOND: mother. look. my campaign people are getting a restraining order, he's going on all the security watch-lists -- but i won't lock him up. i'm not pressing charges.
ELLIE: what?
RAYMOND: it's complicated -- i don't know. it's just complicated and i don't want to talk about it, i want to get back to the campaign and focus on --
ELLIE: you don't actually believe his story?
RAYMOND: no. but he does. and he's a fine soldier and ... my friend. and if his slim hold on sanity requires that i tolerate his delusions until he can get help, i'll do it. it doesn't diminish me. and i'm not afraid of him.
ELLIE: this is why voters love you. your humanity and everything. i've never projected humanity.
RAYMOND: yes i think telling people you want to "round up all the towelheads and throw

RAYMOND: them in a deep pit" probably tips your hand. 
ELLIE: carpetbag steak.
RAYMOND: stuffed. with oysters?
ELLIE: the steak part is mostly for you.
RAYMOND: my in the world's literature of food could there possibly be a more vulgar dish?
ELLIE: and eating it is an absolute sexual experience. try some.
RAYMOND: promise me that you'll help him.
ELLIE: oh, raymond, how much do you really know about your friend?

MARCO: i went to talk to him. but he wasn't there. 
AGENT GOLDRING: talk about what?
AGENT GOLDRING: dreams?
MARCO: yeah, there are hundreds more of those in his apartment. did your people check out his place --?
AGENT JONAS: colonel garret kindly showed us the file on you, marco, you're the shit: special forces. rangers. delta.
MARCO: i wanted to talk to corporal melvin about some unanswered questions involving our reconnaissance mission in kuwait, back in

MARCO: i know this game. will you explain to them that i know this game? 
AGENT RAMIREZ: oh right. army intelligence. isn't that an oxymoron?
MARCO: yeah. kinda like 'special agent.'
COLONEL GARRET: cut it out, major.
AGENT GOLDRING: what's your obsession with raymond shaw?
AGENT RAMIREZ: man of his dreams.
MARCO: listen, you might want to advise your me to check for an implant in corporal melvin's back -- under the skin, just shy of the scapula, left side ... if he's not looking for it, he won't find it.
MARCO: i didn't have anything to do with corporal melvin's death.
AGENT JONAS: yeah, well, that's your opinion, but judging from your file here, apparently you don't know your from your oatmeal, my friend --
LT. COL. HOWARD: get this man out of here.
AGENT JONAS: go ahead, nutball. try it.
AGENT JONAS: -- he hit me!

MARCO: he said i could. 
LT. COL. HOWARD: okay, okay --! that's enough. gentlemen, i need a moment with major marco. now.
ELLIE: evidently this has been going on for years ...
ELLIE: ... sad little tin soldier.

ELLIE: isn't it disgraceful the way troubled individuals are allowed to simply walk around with the rest of us until something horrible happens? another failure of the hmos. i'm thinking of sponsoring a bill, with senator friedman of rhode island -- 
RAYMOND: -- i don't care.
ELLIE: well, imagine how terrified your people were yesterday when major marco showed up at the airport and you invited him -- my invited him -- to tag along. knowing what they knew.
RAYMOND: i know him. i served under him. he was a good man.

ELLIE: that's what the neighbors always say about serial killers. 
ELLIE: perhaps we could arrange a promotion to a less stressful posting. somewhere tropical.

AGENT GOLDRING: goodbye. get out of here. 
LT. COL. HOWARD: he's free to go?
AGENT GOLDRING: shaw won't press charges, and he's got juice with important friends. it's today's daily double.
COLONEL GARRET: someone from senator eleanor shaw's office called and intervened on your behalf.
COLONEL GARRET: major, you have reached the terminal end of the army's patience. you're relieved of duty, effective immediately.
LT. COL. HOWARD: there's a young neurologist at walter reed. zahn. he's had considerable success with gws -- i want you to get your affairs in order and report to him

MARCO: sir, i know all about dr. zahn. remember? he's that guy who -- sir. yes sir. i'm sorry. 
LT. COL. HOWARD: me too, ben.

MARCO'S VOICE: i found it again. 
DELP: these are not supposed to exist, man. these are only theoretical.

DELP: you sure you want to do this man? 
MARCO: yes.
DELP: -- because i don't.
MARCO: i'll owe you one.

DELP: no. i'll still owe you for getting my sorry out of albania. 
MARCO: -- talk to me about the implant.
DELP: manchurian global. heard of 'em? private equity fund, specializes in military support services and weapons research ... including a certain army implant project that went belly-up in the early 90s.
MARCO: you said the army implants were for medical emergency data.
DELP: the ones they publicized were. but, oh man, there was a parallel project of all kinds of scary implantable the clinton watchdogs finally freaked out over, and closed down.
MARCO: how do you know all this?
DELP: cuz they funded me to make some of their scary
MARCO: what does it do?
DELP: i don't know. i don't want to know. you don't want to know -- -- it's out of you, and you're still alive. that's the good news. what are you doing?

DELP: i'm putting you on a cocktail of methohexitol to take the edge off. 
MARCO: edge off what?
DELP: 'getting clarity.' or whatever you want to call it -- ect not being the precise science that, say, leeching is.
MARCO: you don't think this is going to work.
DELP: it's the desperation move, man. but, hey. there is a school of thought, says a victim of induced abreaction -- or ultra-paradoxical brain activity, if you're at all correct about what happened to you -- can have it effectively dispersed by electroshock. unscrambled.
MARCO: -- but?
DELP: but the legions of naysayers will tell you that if the initial work's done correctly -- if the brain's been not just washed, but dry-cleaned --

ROSIE: blank again? 
ROSIE: he said this would happen.
MARCO: who?
ROSIE: your friend.
MARCO: i don't remember a friend.
ROSIE: kind of like a computer system crash -- your brain goes down, then you boot up again, but you lose all your ram. do you remember me?
MARCO: eugenie rose.
SCREEN GOES BLACK.: silence. two beats.

MARCO: it's wednesday. 
ROSIE: yes.
MARCO: central park was monday. i came home friday.
ROSIE: that's right.
MARCO: how did i get here?
ROSIE: you called me.
MARCO: el dorado 59970. i remembered. i remember, and i didn't dream.
ROSIE: it's been weird, talking to you. knowing that you could fall asleep with your eyes open and wake up and have forgotten the whole conversation. i hope to that part's over.
MARCO: what'd we talk about?

ROSIE: stuff. you said you "loved" me. not to scare you. out of nowhere, but more than once. 
MARCO: i remember that.
ROSIE: liar.
MARCO: what else did we talk about?
SCREEN GOES BLACK.: two beats of silence, then --

ROSIE: ben? 
ROSIE: what are you ... oh
MARCO: you're part of it.
ROSIE: don't --

ROSIE: don't do this, ben. it's not what you think. 
MARCO: how can you know what i think?

ROSIE'S VOICE: ... not to scare you. out of nowhere, but more than once. 
MARCO'S VOICE: i remember.

MARCO'S VOICE: what else did we talk about? 
INTERCUT - MICROFICHE: stories flip past ...
ROSIE'S VOICE: raymond shaw. and about what happened to you, after you were captured. black helicopters, secret laboratories, mind drugs, mad scientists, shock-torture ...
MARCO'S VOICE: you don't believe any of it.
ROSIE'S VOICE: it's crazy. it sounds crazy.
MARCO'S VOICE: -- maybe that's what they want. maybe that's what they want.

MARCO'S VOICE: -- i watched raymond shaw kill someone. i watched him kill private eddie mavole. like it was nothing. 
MARCO: and i think they made me kill someone too. one of my people. kid named bobby baker.
ROSIE: or they want you to think that you did.

ROSIE'S VOICE: did he have a name? 
MARCO'S VOICE: what?

ROSIE'S VOICE: the doctor, ben -- what was his name? can you remember? a long beat. marco racks his memory. then -- 
MARCO: noyle. they called him dr. noyle.

JORDAN: nobody will believe this. 
MARCO: nobody believed watergate.
MARCO: or oklahoma city, or the world trade center. you wouldn't have believed oswald before kennedy got shot.
JORDAN: on the advisory board of manchurian- global, should they ever publish a list -- which they won't -- you would find former presidents, deposed kings, retired prime ministers, ayatollahs, african war-lords, fallen communist dictators and an assortment of the rich, who are distinguished from the merely filthy rich by factors of billions.
JORDAN: you bring me rumors and conjecture.
MARCO: i started with nightmares, sir. rumors and conjecture are a giant leap forward.

JORDAN: some of their subsidiary partners are engaged in. 
MARCO: sir, i don't give a rat's about manchurian global! that's not why i'm here! i can't touch them, i get that, i'm not stupid, sir.
MARCO: i just want to try and stop this one thing -- this raymond shaw bomb -- from going off.
MARCO: and i'd be lying if i told you i hadn't factored in huge that you've got a vested personal, political, and patriotic interest in how this shakes out.

ELLIE: the man is insane, tom -- full-blown schizophrenia -- he's been stalking raymond -- if you dare to use this -- 
ELLIE: your bipolar buddy has been sharing his dreams with senator jordan.
JORDAN: hello raymond.
RAYMOND: hello senator. how's jocie?
ELLIE: can we please not go down that road?
JORDAN: do you recognize this man?
RAYMOND: no.
JORDAN: his name is atticus noyle. he is a south african physician, neuropsychiatric scientist and mercenary -- someone our cia trained for covert mind warfare against the soviets in aghanistan -- someone who has sold technology to and done research for terrorist groups, and rogue states. major marco claims that this man --
RAYMOND: sir, ben marco is sick. delusional.

JORDAN: nevertheless he's pulled from his mad hat some remarkably lucid connections between his dreams of your exploits in kuwait, and this dr. noyle, and the private equity fund manchurian global -- raymond frowns, looks from jordan to ellie. 
JORDAN: -- your mother's primary political benefactor for the past fifteen years.
ELLIE: christ, tom. they contribute to half the senate, for sake. silence.
RAYMOND: i don't understand.
JORDAN: at the time of desert storm, dr. atticus noyle was working under a research grant from manchurian global. your mother's friend. the color suddenly drains out of ellie's face.
RAYMOND: what?
JORDAN: rogue scientists. mind control. manchurian global. your mother. you. connect the dots, raymond. possibly, your mother's blind to them, because they pay their way --
ELLIE: possibly the senator's motives are colored by his desperation to get himself back on the presidential ticket now that the heavy lifting is done --
RAYMOND: i don't -- i don't --
JORDAN: it's not about me. as far as i'm concerned, this should never come out -- it would shred what little remains of the fabric of our public trust -- think of the nation --

RAYMOND: i don't have the dreams. 
ELLIE: he can't prove anything.
JORDAN: everything you stand for is upside down! if this were to come out, true or no, it would be catastrophic for the campaign. and it will come out.
RAYMOND: what are you saying?
RAYMOND: what do i do?
JORDAN: you withdraw. you bow out gracefully. personal reasons. an obscure illness. yield your spot on the ticket, go into seclusion ...
JORDAN: ... and then surrender yourself to federal authorities who can help you address the damage that may have been inflicted on you.
RAYMOND: i feel sick. christ. what have you done to me?
ELLIE: raymond, remember when --
RAYMOND: no, never mind -- don't bother. don't lie. don't say anything. no more lies.
RAYMOND: i can promise you that whatever you've done, i will undo it.

ELLIE: i know -- i know, baby -- 
RAYMOND: i never want to see you or speak to you again --
ELLIE: raymond --
RAYMOND: -- i mean it this time.
ELLIE: sergeant shaw --
ELLIE: -- sergeant raymond shaw --

JORDAN: who's that? 
RAYMOND: it's me, sir.

JORDAN: wait. oh, don't do that, i can -- 
RAYMOND: i came to apologize, sir.
JORDAN: -- the water must be freezing. what are you doing? raymond. don't bother, i can --
RAYMOND: i'm sorry.
JORDAN: i am too. but, your mother must --
RAYMOND: i'm sorry, sir.

JOCELYN: raymond, what are you doing?! no! stop it! stop --! 
RAYMOND: turns, grabs her by the hood of her sweatshirt -- -- and whipsaws her out into the deeper water, shoving her under it. jocelyn's hands claw at him, but he's stronger, and the water has no effect on him. she thrashes wildly ... and he looks down at her through the water, hair flowing, utterly beautiful ... as if in a dream.
RAYMOND: shhhhhhhh.

ELLIE: oh, don't lecture me -- 
DONOVAN: you didn't even ask us. you needed to ask.
ELLIE: tom jordan was going to destroy everything we've worked toward, and every one of us along with it, and you want me to call a meeting?
WHITING: david, if jordan had gone public --
DONOVAN: in any endeavor, there are key players and role players, and raymond -- or you, or me, for that matter -- i'm sorry -- we are role players, with fixed values and fixed agendas, that get weighed against other factors.
ELLIE: you can tell yourself that as you go to bed tonight, david, and i hope it helps you wake up tomorrow with a clean conscience -- but we are talking about my son and the future of this country. my father, tyler prentiss, never asked.

MARCO: when. where. how. 
MARCO: i'm gonna stop this. we'll go to the feds. you and me. and tell them a story.
ROSIE: who'll -- believe --
MARCO: i don't know. i don't care any more. it's all i have.

ROSIE: i am the feds. she coughs. marco stares at her, dumbfounded. 
ROSIE: we've been watching you, trying to sort this out. i mean, it's either you're telling it straight and we've all got something big-time to worry about, or you're crazy and dangerous -- either way we've had to keep you on a short leash, 'cuz if we lock you up we'll never know. and we can't tell anybody because we don't know how deep this river runs. if there is a river. you got away from me.
MARCO: raymond shaw murdered senator jordan and his daughter.
ROSIE: oh ben. the thing is? i want to believe you. help me, ben, i do.
MARCO: -- he's a time bomb, ticking --

ROSIE: everybody else wants you junked up on thorazine and just not a problem any more. 
MARCO: i am clearer on this than i've ever been. it's rich guys, funding bad science, to put a sleeper in the white house --
ROSIE: listen to yourself. you're a poster boy for paranoid fantasies.
MARCO: i screwed up. jordan was my trump card, and i screwed it up. either help me, or shoot me, rosie. there's no middle ground anymore.

MIRELLA/ANDERSON: aaaahhhhhh --! 
MIRELLA: you okay?
RAYMOND: yeah. yes. bad dream.
ANDERSON: we've arrived, congressman.
RAYMOND: okay.

MARCO: how's your back? 
RAYMOND: it hurts.
MARCO: i'm sorry.
RAYMOND: i've been having the dreams, ben.
MARCO: that's good.
RAYMOND: good? they're inside my head. they got inside, the way you said they would --
MARCO: we'll get 'em out.

RAYMOND: they're all ... twisted together -- and i dream things, terrible things, that can't possibly have happened. i'm gone, ben -- i'm losing it -- 
MARCO: no -- you could have had me locked up -- and you didn't. that's a sign.
RAYMOND: of what?
MARCO: that they don't control everything. we can fight it. i mean -- i'm still out here because you decided i should be -- which means there's a part they can't get to, deep inside -- the part where the truth is, and they can't touch us there. that's what we need to tap into, raymond, that's the part where, you and me, we're gonna take them out.
RAYMOND: jocie's dead.
MARCO: i know.
RAYMOND: -- and the senator.
MARCO: yeah.
RAYMOND: did i do it?
MARCO: i think so, yeah.
RAYMOND: i don't remember. i don't remember it.

RAYMOND: i'm all inside-out. 
ANDERSON: mr. shaw?
RAYMOND: just a minute.
RAYMOND: all i've ever done is what i was supposed to do. what i was told to do --
MARCO: raymond -- focus --
RAYMOND: -- what others want me to do.
MARCO: did they tell you what they want you to do, ray? we gotta know what's gonna happen, we gotta know when's it gonna happen -- you can help me do this --
RAYMOND: you don't think they saw this coming? you don't think they factored you in? i need to die, ben.
MARCO: what? no -- no, man, they've got big plans for you --
RAYMOND: i'm the enemy, major marco, and the only way to stop me is to kill me. i thought you were smarter than this.
MARCO: i can get the feds, the police. come on, ray -- fight it --
RAYMOND: are we friends?

MARCO: raymond, you gotta work with me here -- 
RAYMOND: i want to believe we're friends.
MARCO: raymond, stay focused. the irrefutable fact is that jocie was a mistake, and we're gonna make 'em pay for it.
RAYMOND: i dream you, ben. you kill private baker. hello?
MARCO: what are you talking about?
RAYMOND: yes mother.

MARCO: hang up. 
RAYMOND: yes, he's right here.
RAYMOND: she wants you.
ELLIE: is this major marco?

MARCO: yes it is, senator. 
ELLIE: -- major bennett marco --
MARCO: yeah ...?
ELLIE: bennett ezekiel marco --
MARCO: yes.
ELLIE: -- listen:

ELLIE: paranoid, lone gunman -- is trying to kill you. 
RAYMOND: the major is an excellent marksman.
RAYMOND: but what will happen to him?
ELLIE: i'm sure you will never entirely comprehend this, darling, and i know, the way you are right now, this is like trying to have a whimpered conversation with someone on a distant star ... but it must be said, raymond -- i did this for you -- so that you could have what i could not, what your father didn't want -- what your grandfather dared to dream possible --
ELLIE: -- when you ran away to join the army, after that girl, after jocie -- when you swore you'd never speak to me again, i felt your father's shadow pass across us, and i couldn't let him run you the way he ruined himself. that's when mark whiting came to me with talk of extraordinary scientific breakthroughs ... attitude adjustment ... reconciliation ... greatness. so i let them take you, and change you. not too much. not so much that you'd notice.
RAYMOND: yes, mother.
ELLIE: and look what you have, now! look how far we've come! it's working, darling -- they think they own you, but they are very, very wrong. you're not something they can buy and sell, raymond, not for

ELLIE: any price -- we're one, and there'll be no stopping us now, will there? we're going to save this country in the hour of its greatest need. raymond is dazzled by eddie's radiance. 
RAYMOND: yes, mother.
ELLIE: how much you look like my father, now -- you have his hands, and you hold your head in the same proud way. and when you smile it's like i'm a little girl again, and -- when you smile -- when you smile --

ROSIE: stop. 
ROSIE: no ...

DIRECTOR: now music -- 
ABOVE THE BALLROOM - LIGHTING GRIDS: change to rippling american flags --

MARCO: you don't develop a technology like that and waste it on two guys. 
ROSIE: we know that.
MARCO: i remember running.
MARCO: i had to get out where the sky was.
MARCO: i had to get to the water.
MARCO: i thought: if i can just get to the water, everything will be okay.

