NARRATOR: the's right... new york. 
NARRATOR: it's 1958 -- anyway, for a few mo' minutes it is. come midnight it's gonna be 1959. a whole 'nother feelin'. the new year. the future...
NARRATOR: ...yeah ole daddy earth fixin' to start one mo' trip 'round the sun, an' evvybody hopin' this ride 'round be a little mo' giddy, a little mo' gay...
NARRATOR: yep...
NARRATOR: ...all over town champagne corks is a-poppin'.
NARRATOR: ...over in the waldorf the big shots is dancin' to the strains of guy lombardo... down in times square the little folks is a-watchin' and a- waitin' fo' that big ball to drop...
NARRATOR: ...they all tryin' to catch holt a one moment of time...
NARRATOR: ...to be able to say -- 'right now! this is it! i got it!' 'course by then it'll be past. but they all happy, evvybody havin' a good time.
NARRATOR: ...well, almost evvybody. they's a few lost souls floatin' 'round out there...
NARRATOR: ...this one's norville barnes.
NARRATOR: ...let's move in for a closer look.
NARRATOR: ...that office he jes stepped out of is the office of the president of hudsucker industries. it's his office...
NARRATOR: ...how'd he get so high? an' why is he feelin' so low? is he really gonna do it -- is norville really gonna jelly up the sidewalk?
NARRATOR: ...well the future, that's something you can't never tell about...
NARRATOR: ...but the past... that's another story...

EXECUTIVE: ...the competition continues to flag and we continue to take up the slack. market share in most divisions is increasing and we've opened seven new regional offices... 
REPORTING EXECUTIVE: he drones on.
EXECUTIVE: ...our international division has also shown vigorous upward movement in the past six months and we're looking at some exciting things in

EXECUTIVE: ...our nominees and assigns continue to multiply and expand extending our influence regionally, nationally and globally. so, third quarter and year- to-date, we've set a new record for sales... 
EXECUTIVE: ...new record in gross...
EXECUTIVE: ...new record in pre-tax earnings...
EXECUTIVE: ...new record in after-tax profit...
EXECUTIVE: ...and our stock has split twice this year...
EXECUTIVE: ...in short...
EXECUTIVE: ...we're loaded.
HUDSUCKER: ahem...
EXECUTIVE: ...mr. hudsucker?

MUSSBURGER: pity to waste a whole monte cristo. 
AN EXECUTIVE: he could've opened the window.
ELDERLY EXECUTIVE: waring hudsucker never did anything the easy way.
ADDISON: my why?! why did he do it?!
MUSSBURGER: what am i a headshrinker? maybe the man was unhappy.
ADDISON: he didn't look unhappy!
EXECUTIVE: yeah, well, he didn't look rich.
ELDERY EXECUTIVE: waring hudsucker was never an easy man to figure out. he built this company with his bare hands. every step he took was a step up. except of course this last one.
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure, he was a swell guy, but when the president, chairman of the board and holder of eighty-seven percent of the company's stock drops forty-four floors --
PRECISE EXECUTIVE: forty-five --
ELDERY EXECUTIVE: counting the mezzanine --
MUSSBURGER: -- then the company has a problem. stillson, what exactly is the disposition of waring's stock?
STILLSON: well, as you know, hud left no will and had no family. the company bylaws are quite clear in that event. his entire portfolio will be converted to common stock and will be sold over the counter as of the first of the fiscal year following his demise.
MUSSBURGER: meaning?
STILLSON: meaning simply that waring's stock, and control of the company, will be available to the public on january first.
MUSSBURGER: you mean to tell me that any slob in a smelly t-shirt will be able to buy hudsucker stock?
STILLSON: the company bylaws are quite clear.
ADDISON: my you're animals! how can you discuss his stock when the man has just leapt forty-five floors --
PRECISE EXECUTIVE: forty-four --
ELDERLY EXECUTIVE: -- not counting the mezzanine.
MUSSBURGER: quit showboating, addison, the man is gone. the question now is whether we're going to let john q. public waltz in and buy 87 percent of our company.
PIPE-SMOKING EXECUTIVE: what're you suggesting, sidney? certainly we can't afford to buy a controlling interest.
MUSSBURGER: not while the stock is this strong. how long before hud's paper hits the market?
STILLSON: january first.
AN EXECUTIVE: thirty days.
ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: four weeks.
ADDISON: a month at the most.
MUSSBURGER: one month to make the blue-chip investment of the century look like a round-trip ticket on the titanic.
AN EXECUTIVE: we play up the fact that hud is dead.
ALL: long live the hud!!
ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: we depress the stock --
YET ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: -- to the point where we can buy fifty-percent.
PRECISE EXECUTIVE: fifty-one.
ELDERLY EXECUTIVE: not counting the mezzanine.
CAUTIOUS EXECUTIVE: it could work.
OPTIMISTIC EXECUTIVE: it should work.
PRACTICAL EXECUTIVE: it would work.
MUSSBURGER: it's working already. waring hudsucker is abstract art on madison avenue. all we need now is a new president who will inspire real panic in our stockholders.
ENTHUSIASTIC EXECUTIVE: yeah, a puppet!
ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: a proxy!
YET ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: a pawn!
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure. some jerk we can really push around.

AGENT: you punch in at 8:30 every morning except you punch in at 7:30 following a business holiday unless it's a monday and then you punch in at eight o'clock! you punch in at 7:45 whenever we work extended day and you punch out at the regular time unless you've worked through lunch! 
NORVILLE: what's exte --
AGENT: punch in late and they dock ya!
FIRST SCREAMER: this goes to seven! mr. mutuszak!
AGENT: incoming articles, get a voucher! outgoing articles, provide a voucher! move any article without a voucher and they dock ya!
SECOND SCREAMER: take this up to the secretarial pool on three! right away! don't break it!
AGENT: letter size a green voucher! folder size a yellow voucher! parcel size a maroon voucher!
THIRD SCREAMER: this one's for morgatross! chop chop!
AGENT: wrong color voucher and they dock ya! six-seven-eight-seven-zero-four- niner-alpha-slash-six! that is your employee number! it will not be repeated! without your employee number you cannot cash your paycheck!
FOURTH SCREAMER: this goes up to twenty-seven! if there's no one there bring it down to eighteen! have 'em sign the waiver!

AGENT: inter-office mail is code 37! intra- office mail is 37-dash-3! outside mail is 3-dash 37! code it wrong and they dock ya! 
FIFTH SCREAMER: i was supposed to have this on twenty- eight ten minutes ago! cover for me!
AGENT: this has been your orientation! is there anything you do not understand? is there anything you understand only partially? if you have not been fully oriented -- if there is something you do not understand in all of its particulars you must file a complaint with personnel! file a faulty complaint... and they dock ya!

NORVILLE: he raises his voice over the mailroom din: 
NORVILLE: say, what do you do when the envelope is too big for the slot?
ANCIENT SORTER: well... if ya fold 'em, they fire ya...
ANCIENT SORTER: ...i usually throw 'em out.

NORVILLE: just got hired today! 
ANCIENT SORTER: terrific.
NORVILLE: ya know, entry level!
ANCIENT SORTER: tell me about it.
NORVILLE: i got big ideas, though!
ANCIENT SORTER: i'm sure you do.
NORVILLE: for instance, take a look at this sweet baby...
NORVILLE: ...you look like you can keep a secret...
NORVILLE: ...something i developed myself. yessir, this is my ticket upstairs.
NORVILLE: ...you know, for kids!
ANCIENT SORTER: terrific.
NORVILLE: so ya see, i won't be in the mailroom long.
ANCIENT SORTER: nooo, i don't guess you will be.
NORVILLE: how long've you been down here?
ANCIENT SORTER: forty-eight years...
ANCIENT SORTER: ...next year they move me up to parcels...
ANCIENT SORTER: ...if i'm lucky.
A BELL CLANGS.: the public address system sputters to life.
PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM: attention hudsucker employees. we regretfully announce that at 12:01 this afternoon, hudsucker time, waring hudsucker, founder, president, and chairman of the board of hudsucker industries, merged with the infinite. to mark this occasion of corporate loss, we ask that all employees observe a moment of silent contemplation.
PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM: ...thank you for your kind attention. this moment has been duly-noted on your time cards and will be deducted from your pay. that is all.
A STEAM WHISTLE SCREECHES.: alarm bells go off.
PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM: 'blue letter! blue letter!' the mail room is thrown into pandemonium.
VARIOUS VOICES: blue letter...! it's a blue letter...! they're bringing down a blue letter!
MAN: blue letter!!
ANCIENT SORTER: jumpin' jehosephat, a blue letter!

ANCIENT SORTER: it's a blue letter... top, top level... confidential communication between the brass... usually bad news... they hate blue letters upstairs... hate 'em! 
HUTCHINSON: you!
HUTCHINSON: ...yeah, you! barnes!
HUTCHINSON: ...you don't look busy! think you can handle a blue letter? ...this letter was sent down this morning by the big guy himself! 'at's right, waring hudsucker! it's addressed to sid mussburger! hudsucker's right-hand man! it's a blue letter! that means you put it right in mussburger's hand. no secretaries! no receptionists! no colleagues! no excuses!

BUZZ: hiya, buddy! the name is buzz, i got the fuzz... 
BUZZ: ...i make the elevator do what she duzz!
BUZZ: ...hang it up to dry.
BUZZ: ...what's your pleasure, buddy?
NORVILLE: forty-fourth floor, and it's very --
BUZZ: forty-four, the top brass floor say, buddy! what takes fifty years to get up to the top floor and thirty seconds to get down?

BUZZ: waring hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha-ha! say, buddy! 
BUZZ: mr. kline, up to nine. mrs. dell, personnel. mr. levin, thirty-seven.
MR. LEVIN: thirty-six.
BUZZ: walk down. ladies and gentlemen, step to the rear; here comes gargantuan mr. grier.
FAT MAN: buzz.
BUZZ: say, buddy! who's the most liquid businessman on the street?
NORVILLE: well, i --
BUZZ: waring hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha-ha! say, buddy! when is the sidewalk fully dressed? when it's 'wearing' hudsucker! na-ha-ha-ha!
BUZZ: ...ya get it, buddy, it's a pun, it's a knee-slapper, it's a play on joseph and mary, is that a blue letter?!
BUZZ: ...cripes a'mighty, whyn't ya tell a guy?! hold on, folks, we're express to the top floor!

ELEVATOR DOORS: sweeping open. norville staggers out. 
BUZZ: good luck, buddy!
BUZZ: -- you'll need it!
NORVILLE: ...mr. mussburger's office?

RECEPTIONIST: do you have an appointment? 
NORVILLE: uhh, no, i -- the filing secretary sneers.
RECEPTIONIST: shall we look in the book, hmmmmmmmmm?
NORVILLE: no, ma'am, ya see, i wouldn't be in the --
RECEPTIONIST: we don't seem to be in the boooook.
NORVILLE: no, ma'am, ya see i don't have an --
RECEPTIONIST: if we had an appointment we'd be in the booook.
NORVILLE: i know but ya see i have this -- here it is, this letter --

MUSSBURGER: -- sure sure, parkinson's stupid but he's ambitious, too hard to control... 
MUSSBURGER: ...no! not mcclanahan; sure he bungled the teleyard merger, but that means he's got something to prove...
MUSSBURGER: ...who let you in?

MUSSBURGER: atwater? tremendous. except i fired him last week -- the intercom buzzes fiercely. 
VOICE: mr. bumstead is waiting downstairs.
MUSSBURGER: tell him i'll be right there... well, what is it?

MUSSBURGER: you, maybe you're the company's biggest moron. we can't use morris, he's been with us too long, he's a nice guy, too many friends. matter of fact, why don't you fire him. no -- scratch that; i'll fire him. ...make it fast, make it fast. 
NORVILLE: you -- the intercom squawks.
VOICE: mr. bumstead is getting very --
MUSSBURGER: i'll be right there. give him a magazine. ...what're you, a mute?
MUSSBURGER: ...yeah, how's the stock doing? ...bad, huh? well it's not bad enough. ...look, chump, either you find me a grade a ding-dong or you can tender your key to the executive washroom. and that goes double for you. ear-clay? ood-gay! this better be good. i'm in a bad mood.
NORVILLE: well, sir. i've got something for you from the mailroom, but first if i could just take a minute or so from your very busy time...
NORVILLE: ...to show you a, uh...
NORVILLE: ...a little something i've been working on for the last two or three years...
NORVILLE: ...you know, for kids! which is perfect for hudsucker -- not that i claim to be any great genius; like they say, inspiration is 99 percent perspiration, and in my case i'd say it's at least twice that, but i gotta tell ya, mr. mussburger, sir, this sweet baby --
MUSSBURGER: wait a minute! sudden quiet.
MUSSBURGER: hmmm...
MUSSBURGER: umm-hmm...
MUSSBURGER: siddown.
MUSSBURGER: ...go ahead. try it on.
MUSSBURGER: ...put your feet up.
MUSSBURGER: ...go ahead.
MUSSBURGER: hmmmm... let's get to know one another, shall we?
MUSSBURGER: ...let's chat! ...man to man!
MUSSBURGER: ...you weren't blessed with much...
MUSSBURGER: ...education, were you?
NORVILLE: well, i'm a college graduate --
MUSSBURGER: all right, but you didn't excel in your studies...?
NORVILLE: well, i made the dean's list.
MUSSBURGER: hmmm.
NORVILLE: at the muncie college of business administration.
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure. and did your classmates there call you 'jerk' or... ...'schmoe'?
MUSSBURGER: ...'shnook'? 'dope'? 'dipstick'? 'lamebrain'?
NORVILLE: no, sir.
MUSSBURGER: not even behind your back?
NORVILLE: sir! they voted me most likely to succeed!
MUSSBURGER: you're fired.
NORVILLE: but, sir! --
MUSSBURGER: get your feet off that desk.
NORVILLE: but --
MUSSBURGER: get out of my sight.
MUSSBURGER: my the bumstead contracts!!
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
MUSSBURGER: you nitwit! i worked for three years on this deal!
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
MUSSBURGER: i'll take care of it. just get out!
MUSSBURGER: why you nitwit. you almost destroyed the most sensitive deal of my career!
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
MUSSBURGER: now out of here! out!
MUSSBURGER: not that way! through the door!
NORVILLE: but, sir!
MUSSBURGER: right away, buster! out of my office!
MUSSBURGER: up on your feet! we don't crawl at hudsucker industries!
NORVILLE: sir, my leg is on fire!
MUSSBURGER: get out of this office, you dithering nincompoop!
NORVILLE: oh my sir!

MUSSBURGER: my the bumstead contracts! 
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
MUSSBURGER: eeeeeeaaaahhhhh!

NORVILLE: desperately hanging onto mussburger by his legs. 
NORVILLE: don't worry, mr. mussburger! i gotcha. i gotcha by your pants!

LUIGI: meester moosaburger, i give-a you pants a nice-a dooble stitch. make 'em strong, and they look-a real sharp. 
MUSSBURGER: no! single stitch is fine.
LUIGI: but please-a, meester moosaburger, the dooble stitch she last-a forever --
MUSSBURGER: why on earth would i need a double stitch? to pad your bill? single stitch is fine!

MUSSBURGER: looking. thinking. 
NORVILLE: struggling to hold on.
MUSSBURGER: calm. contemplating.
MUSSBURGER: hmmm...

EDITOR: facts, figures, charts! they never sold a newspaper! i read this morning's edition of the argus and let me tell you something: i'd wrap a fish in it! i'd use it as kindling! hell, i'd even train my poodle with it if he wasn't a french poodle and more partial to the pages of paree soir! but i sure wouldn't shell out a hard-earned nickel to read the dadblamed thing! 
REPORTER: come on, chief, give us a break.
EDITOR: suuuure, tibbs, take a break! go to florida! lie in the sun! wait for a coconut to drop, file a story on it -- it'll be more of a grabber than your piece on the commie grain surplus! the human angle! that's what sells papers! we need a front page with heart and the whole idea of the 'idea man' idea can put it there!
REPORTER #2: chief, if we had more access --
EDITOR: yeah, and if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his a-hoppin'! i don't want excuses, i want results! whack! --
EDITOR: i wanna know what makes the idea man tick! where is he from? where is he going? i wanna know everything about this guy! has he got a girl? has he got parents?
REPORTER #3: everybody has parents.
EDITOR: all right, how many? how 'bout it, parkinson, you've been awful quiet over there.
PARKINSON: uhhh...
REPORTER NEXT TO HIM: still waters run deep, chief.
EDITOR: the only thing that runs deep with parkinson is the holes in his ears. yes, the idea man! what're his hopes and dreams, his desires and aspirations? does he think all the time or does he set aside a certain portion of the day? how tall is he and what's his shoe size? where does he sleep and what does he eat for breakfast? does he put jam on his toast or doesn't he put jam on his toast, and if not why not and since when? he thrust his face into that of the reporter.
EDITOR: ...well?!!
EDITOR: ...ahh, you're useless. yes, idea man! creator! innovator! cerebrator! tycoon!--
WOMAN: fake.
EDITOR: huhh!!

AMY: i tell ya the guy's a phony. 
EDITOR: phony, huh?
AMY: as a three-dollar bill.
EDITOR: sez who?
AMY: sez me! amy archer. why is he an idea man -- because hudsucker says he is? what're his ideas? why won't they let anyone interview him?...
REPORTER: five bucks says she mentions her pulitzer.
OTHER REPORTER: again? you're on.
AMY: ...on payday! the only story here is how this guy made a monkey out of you, al.
EDITOR: yeah, well, monkey or not i'm still editor of this rag. amy, i thought you were doing that piece on the f.b.i. -- j. edgar hoover: when will he marry?
AMY: i filed it yesterday.
EDITOR: well, do a follow-up: hoover: hero or mama's boy? the rest of you bums get up off your brains and get me that idea man story!
REPORTERS: all right, chief... we'll do our best, chief... i'll give it a shot, chief...
AMY: al, he's the bunk. slam!
AMY: i'll stake my pulitzer on it!

BUZZ: say, buddy! where'd ya get the new duds? 
BUZZ: ...and say, buddy! how'd old bucketbutt like his blue letter? na-ha-ha-ha-ha! did he bust a gut? did he die? did he -- well, hello, mr. mussburger, sir...
BUZZ: ...how're you this fine morning, sir?
NORVILLE: that reminds me, mr. mu... uh, sid. i never did give you that--
MUSSBURGER: lobby. we haven't got all day.
BUZZ: right away, mr. mussburger sir.
MUSSBURGER: well i'm starved. i understand it'll be quite an affair this afternoon, and the executive roast tom turkey at the bohemian grove redefines the word superb.
BUZZ: my pleasure, sir.
NORVILLE: roast tom turkey. gee, i'm hungry too --
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure...
BUZZ: it's been a pleasure serving you, mr. mussburger.
BUZZ: ...and it's been a pleasure serving you too, uh... buddy.

NORVILLE: say, mr. muss -- uh, sid! shouldn't we be a little bit concerned with the downward spiral of our stock these last few days? i mean, you're the expert, but at the muncie college of business administration they told us -- 
MUSSBURGER: relax, norville. it's only natural in a period of transition for the more nervous element to run for cover.
NORVILLE: okay, sid. like i said, you're the expert, but --

NORVILLE: ...you don't happen to remember the plan i outlined to you the day i set fire to your off -- uh, the day i was promoted? 
MUSSBURGER: i do remember and i was impressed. anyway, that's all forgotten now. driver!
NORVILLE: thank you, sid, but the reason i mention it is, it would require such a small capital investment -- again, you're the expert here --
MUSSBURGER: damnit, where's my car!
NORVILLE: -- but there's such an enormous potential profit-wise given the demographics -- baby boom -- discretionary income in the burgeoning middle class -- a black limousine pulls up to the curb.
MUSSBURGER: finally.
NORVILLE: -- so if you think it's appropriate, i'd like to bounce the idea off a few people at lunch -- mussburger is getting into the back seat --
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure, tell whoever you want...
MUSSBURGER: ...and i'd like to hear more about it at some point, too.
NORVILLE: but, sid, i thought you and i were...
DOORMAN: say, bud, could you keep the sidewalk clear here?
NORVILLE: but i'm the president of this -- aww, forget it.

VETERAN #1: i got gas, bennie. 
VETERAN #2: yeah, tell me about it.
VETERAN #1: no kiddin', bennie. i got gas.
VETERAN #2: ya get the special?
VETERAN #1: fah from it...
VETERAN #1: ...enter the dame.
VETERAN #2: there's one in every story.
VETERAN #1: ten bucks says she's looking for a handout.
VETERAN #2: twenty bucks says not here she don't find one.
VETERAN #1: she's looking for her mark.
VETERAN #2: she finds him.
VETERAN #1: she sits down.
VETERAN #2: ...and awduhs a light lunch.
VETERAN #1: she looks in her purse...
VETERAN #2: ...no money.
VETERAN #1: the mark notices.
VETERAN #2: ...he's not noticing, benny.
VETERAN #1: maybe he's wise.
VETERAN #2: he don't look wise.
VETERAN #1: plan two: here come the waterworks.
VETERAN #2: yellowstone.
VETERAN #1: old faithful.
VETERAN #2: hello, niagara.
VETERAN #1: he notices.
VETERAN #2: he's concerned.
VETERAN #1: she explains her perdicament, and...
VETERAN #1 and #2: ...entuh the light lunch.
VETERAN #2: she's got other problems, of course...
VETERAN #1: ...her mother needs an operation...
VETERAN #2: ...adenoids.
VETERAN #1: no, bennie: lumbago.
VETERAN #1: she's losing him, bennie.
VETERAN #2: maybe he's wise.
VETERAN #1: he don't look wise.
VETERAN #2: how does she pull this out?
VETERAN #1: she isn't!
VETERAN #2: she is!
VETERAN #1: she's good, bennie.
VETERAN #2: she's good, lou.
WAITRESS: can i get you boys anything else?

VETERAN #1: bromo. 
VETERAN #2: ...bromo.

AMY: i'm sorry we had to take the stairs. it was just that horrible little elevator boy... 
NORVILLE: not at all. you're light as a feather.
AMY: the couch, please.

NORVILLE: just a minute. 
AMY: i don't know what came over me. i suppose it was the shock of eating after so long without; the enzymes kicking in after so long, or whatever. but then you couldn't possibly know what it is to be tired and hungry...
NORVILLE: hungry, anyway.
AMY: i don't want to bore you with all the sordid details of my life; it's not a happy story...
AMY: ...suffice it to say that i'm jobless -- though not for want of trying, that i'm friendless, with no one to -- thank you -- take care of me; and that had you not come along at just exactly the moment that you did -- she screams, staring down at the couch.
AMY: norville, i didn't know you were president here!
NORVILLE: oh, it's nothing really. just determination and hard work...
NORVILLE: ...of course, when i started in the mailroom last tuesday i thought it might take more time -- buzz enters holding a brown paper bag.
BUZZ: say, buddy, here's the whiskey you asked --
NORVILLE: thank you, buzz, just leave it on the desk.
BUZZ: happy days, buddy...
BUZZ: ...and i'll tell your secretary you're not to be disturbed. yowzuh!! he snaps the elastic strap under his chin.
AMY: what a horrible little person.
NORVILLE: oh, buzz is pretty harmless, really --
AMY: at any rate i arrived in town not ten days ago, full of dreams and aspirations, anxious to make my way in the world --
AMY: a little naive perhaps but -- thank you -- armed with determination, a solid work ethic, and an indomitable belief in the future --
NORVILLE: i myself -- he crosses back to the desk.
AMY: only to have that belief, that unsullied optimism, dashed against the marble and mortar of the modern work place --
NORVILLE: cigarette?
AMY: no thank you. seek and ye shall find, work and ye shall prosper -- these were the watch words of my education, the ethics of my tender years --

AMY: -- these were the values that were instilled in me while i was growing up in a little town you've probably never heard of -- 
NORVILLE: mind if i join you?
AMY: be my guest. a little town you've probably --

NORVILLE: he waves his arms and talks with a thick rasp as he staggers to his feet. 
NORVILLE: excuse me -- i -- executive washroom... he staggers out a side door.
AMY: are you all right?...
AMY: ...is it your lunch? the chicken a la king?
NORVILLE: no, i --
AMY: is the a la king repeating on you?
NORVILLE: ...i'm fine, i... you were saying?
AMY: values... watchwords... uh, tender years... -- a little town you've probably never heard of...
AMY: ...muncie, indiana.
NORVILLE: you're from muncie?!
AMY: why yes, do you know it?
NORVILLE: 'fight on fight on dear old muncie fight on -- hoist the gold and blue you'll be tattered, torn and hurtin' once 'the munce' is done with you!'
NORVILLE: ...goooooooo eagles! amy awkwardly imitates.
NORVILLE: ...a muncie girl! talk about the cat's pyjamas! tell you what, amy. i'm gonna cancel the rest of my appointments this afternoon and get you a job here at the hud.
AMY: oh, no, really, i --
NORVILLE: don't bother to thank me, it's the easiest thing in the world. matter of fact, i know where a vacancy just came up.
NORVILLE: ...mail room.
NORVILLE: ...this'll only take a moment.
INTERCOM: yeah?
NORVILLE: good afternoon to ya, this is norville barnes --
INTERCOM: barnes! where the have you been! and where's my voucher?!
NORVILLE: ...well, i'm not sure where i --
INTERCOM: i need that voucher! i told you a week ago it was important!
NORVILLE: but look, i'm president of the company now and i --
INTERCOM: i don't care if you're president of the company! i need that voucher! now!
NORVILLE: oh, of all the foolish... listen, do you take shorthand? are you familiar with the mimeograph machine?
AMY: of course -- i went to the muncie, uh, secretarial polytechnic! norville excitedly smacks a fist into a palm.
NORVILLE: -- a muncie girl! can you beat that!
AMY: well, i just don't know how to thank you, mr. barnes --
NORVILLE: please! norville!
NORVILLE: ...it's my pleasure!
NORVILLE: ...gooooooo eagles!

AMY: gooooooooo eagles! 
AMY: and is this guy from chumpsville?!
SMITTY: adenoids?
AMY: lumbago.
SMITTY: that gag's got whiskers on it!
AMY: i'm telling you, smitty, the board of hudsucker is up to something --
SMITTY: yeah.
ANCIENT PUZZLER: say, amy, what's a six-letter word for an affliction of the hypothalmus?
AMY: -- and it's a cinch -- goiter -- it's a cinch this guy isn't in on it. how much time to make the late final?
SMITTY: chief.
AMY: hiya, chief, just the person i wanted to apologize to...
SMITTY: about seven minutes.
AMY: yeah, i was all wet about your idea man... well, thanks for being so generous... it is human, and you are divine... no, he's no faker. he's the 100% real mccoy beware-of- imitations genuine article: the guy is a real moron -- to the ancient puzzler:
AMY: -- as in a five-letter word for imbecile -- back into phone:
AMY: -- as pure a specimen as i've ever run across... am i sure he's a nitwit? heck, if working at the argus doesn't make me an expert then my name isn't amy archer and i've never won the pulitzer prize...
AMY: ...in 1957... my series on the reunited triplets -- come on down here, hammerhead, and i'll show it to ya...
ANCIENT PUZZLER: amy, what's a three-letter word for a flightless bird?
AMY: not now, morris, i'm busy -- that's right, i said hammerhead, as in a ten-letter word for a smug bullying self-important newspaperman -- to morris:
AMY: -- gnu -- into phone:
AMY: -- who couldn't find -- to morris:
AMY: -- that's g-n-u -- into phone:
AMY: -- couldn't find the empire state building with a compass, a road map and a native guide.
AMY: -- or emu.
AMY: ...and that's just the potatoes, smitty, here comes the gravy: the chump really likes me. a muncie girl!
SMITTY: better off falling for a rattlesnake.
AMY: i'm tellin' ya, this guy's just the patsy and i'm gonna find out what for. there's a real story, smitty, some kind of plot, a setup, a cabal, a -- oh, and say, did i tell ya?!
SMITTY: he didn't offer you money.
AMY: a sawbuck!
SMITTY: ten dollars? let's grab a highball!
AMY: on norville barnes!
AMY: ...copy!

NORVILLE: miss smith, can you come in please to take a letter... 
NORVILLE: ...of all the cockamamie...
NORVILLE: ...did you happen to see the front page of today's manhattan argus?
AMY: well, i... didn't bother to read the article. i didn't think the picture did you justice.
NORVILLE: the picture was fine! it's what that knuckle-headed dame wrote underneath! of all the irresponsible... amy, take this down: dear miss archer. i call you 'miss' because you seem to have 'missed' the boat completely on this one! how on earth would you know whether i'm an imbecile when you don't even have the guts to come in here and interview me man to man! no, change 'guts' to 'courage.' no, make it 'common decency.' these wild speculations about my intelligence --
AMY: -- or lack thereof?
NORVILLE: -- these preposterous inventions, would be better suited to the pages of amazing tales magazine. if the editors of the manhattan argus see fit to publish the rantings of a disordered mind, perhaps they will see fit to publish this letter! but i doubt it. i most seriously doubt it. as i doubt also that you could find a home at amazing tales, a periodical which i have enjoyed for many years. yours sincerely, et cetera.
AMY: is that all, mr. barnes?
NORVILLE: ...well, you know me, amy, at least better than that that dame does. do you think i'm an imbecile?
AMY: i'm sure i --
NORVILLE: go on, tell the truth; i trust you and i put a lot of stock in your opinion.
AMY: well, i --
NORVILLE: oh sure, you're biased -- you're a fellow muncian. but would an imbecile come up with this?
NORVILLE: ...i designed it myself and this is just the sweet baby that can put hudsucker right back on top.
NORVILLE: ...you know! for kids!
AMY: ...why don't i just type this up...
NORVILLE: aww, naw, amy, that won't be necessary. i shouldn't send it; she's just doing her job, i guess.
AMY: well, i don't know; maybe she does deserve it. maybe she should've come in to face you man to man.
NORVILLE: well, she probably had a deadline...
AMY: sure, but -- she could still have gotten your side for the record!
NORVILLE: well, it's done now -- what's the use of grousing about it. forget the letter, amy, i just had to blow off some steam...
NORVILLE: ...she's probably just a little confused.
AMY: confused?
NORVILLE: yeah, you know, probably one of these fast-talking career gals, thinks she's one of the boys. probably is one of the boys, if you know what i mean.
AMY: i'm quite sure i don't know what you mean.
NORVILLE: yeah, you know. suffers from one of these complexes they have nowadays. seems pretty obvious, doesn't it? she's probably very unattractive and bitter about it.
AMY: oh, is that it!
NORVILLE: yeah, you know. probably dresses in men's clothing, swaps drinks with the guys at the local watering hole, and hobnobs with some smooth talking heel in the newsroom named biff or smoocher or...
AMY: smitty.
NORVILLE: exactly. and i bet she's ugly. real ugly. otherwise, why wouldn't they print her picture next to her byline?
AMY: maybe she puts her work ahead of her personal appearance.
NORVILLE: i bet that's exactly what she tells herself! but you and i both know she's just a dried-up bitter old maid. say, how about you and i grab a little dinner and a show after work? i was thinking maybe the king and i -- whap! amy slaps him.
NORVILLE: ...how about oklahoma?
AMY: norville barnes, you don't know a thing about that woman! you don't know who she really is! and only a numbskull thinks he knows things about things he knows nothing about!
NORVILLE: say, what gives?

MUSSBURGER: memo. from the desk of sidney j. mussburger. executive order number 530 slash a49. to: director of the jacksonville facility. copies to: legal affairs, business affairs, central files. re: movement of raw materials from the huron facility. due to unfavorable news in the slag markets, jacksonville inventory must be reduced by 15 percent with overflow diverted to the waukegan stamping facility. memo. from the desk of sidney j. mussburger. executive order number 530 slash a50. to: director of -- 
BACK TO SCENE: watchoo doin' down they, miss archuh?
AMY: huh?!
AMY: who are you? how did you know who i am?
MOSES: ah guess ole moses knows jes about ever'thing, leastways if it concerns hudsuckuh.
AMY: but -- who are you -- what d'you do here?
MOSES: ah keeps the ol' circle turning -- this ol' clock needs plenty o' care. time is money, miss archuh, and money -- it drives that ol' global economy and keeps big daddy earth a-spinnin' on 'roun'. ya see, without that capital fo'mation --
AMY: yeah, yeah. say, you won't tell anyone about me, will you?
MOSES: i don't tell no one nothin' lessen they ask. thatches ain't ole moses' way.
AMY: so if you know everything about hudsucker, tell me why the board decided to make norville barnes president.
MOSES: well, that even surprised ole moses at fust. i didn't think the board was that smart.
AMY: that smart?!
MOSES: but then i figured it out: they did it 'cause they figured young norville for an imbecile. like some othuh people ah know.
AMY: why on earth would they want a nitwit to be president?
MOSES: 'cause they's little pigglies! they's tryin' to inspire panic, make that stock git cheap so's they can snitch it all up fo' themselves! but norville, he's got some tricks up his sleeve, he does...
MOSES: ...you know, fo' kids? yeah, he's a smart one, that norville, heh-heh, he's a caution. wal, some folks is square, an' some is hip --
MOSES: ...but i guess you don't really know him any better than that board does, do ya, miss archuh?
AMY: well, maybe i --
MOSES: an' only some kind a knucklehead thinks she knows things 'bout things she, uh -- when she don't, uh -- how'd that go?
AMY: it's hardly the same --
MOSES: why you don't even know y'own self -- you ain't exactly the genuine article are you, miss archuh?
AMY: well, in connection with my job, sometimes i have to go undercover as it were --
MOSES: i don't mean that! why you pretendin' to be such a hard ol' sourpuss! ain't never gonna make you happy! never made warin' happy.
AMY: i'm happy enough.
MOSES: okay, miss archuh. ...i got gears to see to.
AMY: i'm plenty happy!

AMY: ...hello? 
MOSES: them po' young folks. looks like norville's in fo' the same kind o' heartache ol' warin' had. but then, she never axed me 'bout dat...

CHIEF: i can't print this! 
AMY: why not, it's all true! the board is using this poor guy! they're depressing the stock so they can buy it cheap!
CHIEF: it's pure speculation! why, they'd have my in a satchel!
SMITTY: ol' satchel-butt...
AMY: i know they're gonna buy that stock --
CHIEF: you don't know anything! fact is they haven't bought it! the stock is cheap, archer! what're they waiting for?
AMY: i don't know...
SMITTY: amy's hunches are usually pretty good, chief.
CHIEF: you don't accuse someone of stock manipulation on a hunch, ignatz! the readers of the manhattan argus aren't interested in sensationalism, gossip and unsupported speculation. facts, figures -- those are the tools of the newspaper trade! why it's almost as if you're trying to take the heat off this barnes numbskull -- like you've gone all soft on him!
SMITTY: come on, chief, that's a low blow. archer's not gonna go goey for a corn-fed
CHIEF: all right, i was out of line. but you're out of line with this stock swindle story. gimme some more of that moron-from-sheboygan stuff --
AMY: muncie.
CHIEF: whatever. that's what sells newspapers.
AMY: i've got an even hotter story -- the sap from the city desk.
CHIEF: watch it, archer --
AMY: it's about a dimwitted editor who --
SMITTY: easy, amy...
SMITTY: ...let's grab a highball and calm down.
AMY: back off -- smoocher!
SMITTY: say, what gives?

MRS. MUSSBURGER: -- so we'd gone out to the hamptons and the garden was in positive ruins! 
NORVILLE: that must have been quite a disappointment, mrs. mussburger.
MRS. MUSSBURGER: disappointment? j'etais destroyee! i was in bed for a week! positively sick with fury! i called in the gardener and said, 'monsieur gonzalez, either those azaleas come up next spring or you are terminee!

MRS. MUSSBURGER: i'm brushing up on my french with the most charming man, pierre of fifth avenue. do you know him? 
NORVILLE: i haven't had --
MRS. MUSSBURGER: sidney and i are planning a trip to paris and points continental -- aren't we, dear?
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure. i'm going to borrow norville for a while, if you don't mind, dear.
MRS. MUSSBURGER: well, frankly, i...
NORVILLE: you have a charming wife, mr.
MUSSBURGER: so they tell me. norville, let me shepherd you through some of the introductions here. try not to talk too much; some of our biggest stockholders are, uh -- scratch that: say whatever you want.

MUSSBURGER: norville barnes, allow me to introduce mr. zebulon cardozo, one of hudsucker industries largest and most loyal stockholders. 
CARDOZO: dammit boy, what's this i hear about you bein' an embecile? what the is ailin' ya?! a week ago my stock was worth twice what it is now! i'm considering dumping the whole shootin' match, unless i see some vast improvement! dammit, boy, it's a range war! either you pull our wagons into a circle or i'm pullin' out of the wagon train!
NORVILLE: no need for concern, sir; it's only natural in a period of transition for the more timid element to run for cover --
CARDOZO: so i'm yella, am i?!!
CARDOZO: ...we'll see who's yella!!
MRS. CARDOZO: zebulon, you mind now and quit bein' sech an ole grizzly.
CARDOZO: aww, i wasn't gonna hurt the boy, lorelei...

NORVILLE: i'm sorry, sid, i thought maybe if i showed him the long view we might -- 
MUSSBURGER: norville, this is thorstensen finlandsen, who heads a radical splinter group of disgruntled investors.
NORVILLE: hello, mr. finlandsen, so sorry to meet you -- uh, happy to walk into y -- uh, pleased to make your --
NORVILLE: thank you, sir...
NORVILLE: ...i understand your concern about the down-ward, you know, but i think you'll find under our strong new leadership...
NORVILLE: we anticipate, in short order, an upward...
MRS. FINDLANDSEN: ahhh!

EXECUTIVE #1: how's it going, mr. mussburger? 
MUSSBURGER: bad.
EXECUTIVE #2: good.
MUSSBURGER: but not bad enough.
EXECUTIVE #3: too bad.
MUSSBURGER: it could be better, it could be worse.
ALL THREE EXECUTIVES: hmmmmmm.
MUSSBURGER: the stock's got to drop another five points if we expect to get controlling interest. norville tells me he's got some hot idea. can't be good.
EXECUTIVE #1: then it can't be bad!
EXECUTIVE #2: couldn't be better if it couldn't be worse.
ALL: hmmmmmm.

AMY: ...norville? 
AMY: ...what happened?
NORVILLE: oh. nothing, really, just... the more timid investors are no longer running for cover.
AMY: let me look.
NORVILLE: sid found me the icepack.
AMY: let me hold it, or you'll have a real shiner.
NORVILLE: thanks. people seem to be pretty hot over this imbecile story.
AMY: ...i'm sorry.
NORVILLE: oh, it isn't your fault, amy. you're the one person who's been standing by me through all this.
AMY: norville... there's something i have to tell you. you see, i'm not really a secretary.
NORVILLE: i know that, amy.
AMY: ...you do?
NORVILLE: i understand that you're not very skilled yet in the secretarial arts. i'm not that skilled as president. oh sure, i put up a big front -- -- not that everyone's buying it.
AMY: i believe in you, norville -- at least i believe in your... intentions --
NORVILLE: oh, i don't blame them, really. i guess i have sort of made a mess of things. these folks have to protect their investment. most of them are very nice people --
AMY: norville, you can't trust people here like you did in muncie...
AMY: ...certain people are --
NORVILLE: didja ever go to the top of old man larson's feed tower and look out over the town?
AMY: ...huh?
NORVILLE: you know, on farm route 17.
AMY: oh yes! in muncie!
NORVILLE: no! in vidalia! farm route 17!
AMY: uh -- yes. seventeen. yes, i -- well no, i -- i never really... there's a place i go now, the cutest little place near my apartment in greenwich village. it's called ann's 440. it's a beatnik bar.
NORVILLE: you don't say.
AMY: yes, you can get carrot juice or italian coffee, and the people there -- well, none of them quite fit in. you'd love it -- why don't you come there with me -- they're having a marathon poetry reading on new year's eve. i go every year.
NORVILLE: every year?
AMY: well -- this year -- if it's good i plan to make it a tradition. uh, my it certainly is beautiful --
AMY: ...the people look like ants.
NORVILLE: well, the hindus say -- and the beatniks also -- that in the next life some of us will come back as ants. some will be butterflies. others will be elephants or creatures of the sea.
AMY: what a beautiful thought.
NORVILLE: what do you think you were in your previous life, amy?
AMY: oh, i don't know. maybe i was just a fast-talking career gal who thought she was one of the boys --
NORVILLE: oh no, amy, pardon me for saying so but i find that very farfetched.
AMY: norville, there really is something i have to tell you --
NORVILLE: that kind of person would come back as a wildebeest, or a warthog. no, i think it more likely that you were a gazelle, with long, graceful legs, gamboling through the underbrush. perhaps we met once, a chance encounter in a forest glade. i must have been an antelope or an ibex. what times we must have had -- foraging together for sustenance, picking the grubs and burrs from one another's coats. or perhaps we simply touched our horns briefly and went our separate ways...
AMY: i wish it were that simple, norville. i wish i was still a gazelle, and you were an antelope or an ibex.
NORVILLE: well, can i at least call you deer? ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! seriously, amy, the whole thing is what your beatnik friends call 'karma' -- the great circle of life, death and rebirth.
AMY: yeah, i think i've heard of that.
NORVILLE: that's it. a great wheel that gives us each what we deserve...
NORVILLE: ...tomorrow's my big presentation to the board. i've gotta show sidney and the guys that i deserve all their confidence!
AMY: oh, norville --
NORVILLE: kiss me once, amy! kiss me once for luck!
AMY: sure, norville, sure...
AMY: ...oh, norville! she embraces him. they kiss again.
VIC TENETTA: crooning the end of his song.
DANCING COUPLES: turn to the bandstand and applaud.
NORVILLE AND AMY: in the midst of a passionate kiss.

NORVILLE: ...it's fun, it's healthy, it's good exercise; kids'll just love it, and we put a little sand inside to make the whole experience more pleasant. and the great part is we won't have to charge an arm and a leg! 
ELDERLY EXECUTIVE: yeah but... what is it?
EXECUTIVE #2: does it have rules?
EXECUTIVE #3: can more than one play?
EXECUTIVE #4: what makes you think it's a game?
EXECUTIVE #3: is it a game?
EXECUTIVE #5: will it break?
EXECUTIVE #6: it better break eventually!
EXECUTIVE #2: is there an object?
EXECUTIVE #3: are you supposed to make it fly off?
EXECUTIVE #5: does it come with batteries?
EXECUTIVE #4: could we charge extra for them?
EXECUTIVE #7: is it safe for toddlers?
EXECUTIVE #3: how can you tell when you're done?
EXECUTIVE #2: how do you make it stop?
EXECUTIVE #1: is that a girl's model or a boy's?
EXECUTIVE #3: can a parent assemble it??
EXECUTIVE #7: what if you get tired before it's done?
EXECUTIVE #6: is there a larger model for the obese?
EXECUTIVE #4: can you do it around your neck?
ELDERLY EXECUTIVE: and finally... what is it?
NORVILLE: you know, for kids! it's... it's ... well, it's...
MUSSBURGER: it's brilliant.
MUSSBURGER: ...it's genius. it's just exactly what hudsucker needs at this juncture. sure, sure, a blind man could tell you that there's an enormous demand for this, uh...
MUSSBURGER: ...congratulations, kid, you've really outdone yourself. reinvented the wheel. i'm going to recommend to the board that we proceed immediately with this, uh... with the, uh... that the dingus be mass-produced with all deliberate speed. of course, as president of the company the ultimate decision is yours.
NORVILLE: well... i'm for it...

AD MAN #1: we'll call it the flying donut! 
AD MAN #2: the dancing dingus!
AD MAN #1: the jerky circle!

AD MAN #1: something short. 
AD MAN #2: sharp.
AD MAN #1: snappy.
AD MAN #2: with a little jazz.
AD MAN #1: the shazzammeter!
AD MAN #2: the hipster!
AD MAN #1: the daddy-oh!
AD MAN #2: the circle-o'-gaiety!

AD MAN #1: the hoopsucker! 
AD MAN #2: the hudswinger!
AD MAN #1: the hoop-dee-doo!
AD MAN #2: the hudsucker hoop!
AD MAN #3: fellas. fellas!
AD MAN #1: ya got somethin'?
AD MAN #2: ya got somethin'?!
AD MAN #3: fellas! i got somethin'!

WOMAN: he's on! he's on the line! 
NORVILLE: ...hello?
CRACKLING VOICE: hello, norville. this is the president...
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
IKE: ...i just wanted to congratulate you. i'm very proud of you, norville...
NORVILLE: oh my sir!
IKE: ...mrs. eisenhower is very proud of you. the american people are very proud of you.

REPORTER #1: mr. barnes, how'd ya come up with the idea for the hula hoop? 
NORVILLE: well, it was no great idea, really. a thing like this, it takes a whole company to put it together, and i'm just grateful for the opportunity --
REPORTER #2: mr. barnes, did you have any idea there'd be such a huge response?
NORVILLE: well, frankly, i don't think anybody expected this much hoopla -- he is surprised by a burst of laughter.
REPORTER #3: 'hoopla on the hula hoop' -- can we quote you on that, mr. barnes?
NORVILLE: well sure, i guess --
REPORTER #4: mr. barnes, are you thinking of giving yourself a nice fat raise?
NORVILLE: ha-ha-ha-ha. come on, guys...

NEWSREEL ANNOUNCER: what scientific principle explains the mind-bending motion of this whipping wheel of wonder? 
SCIENTIST: ze dinkus is kvite zimple, really. it operates on ze same principle zat keeps ze earth spinning 'round ze sun, and zat keeps you from flying off ze earth into ze coldest reaches of outer space vere you vood die like a miserable shvine! yes, ze principle is ze same, except for ze piece of grrrit zey put in to make ze whole experience more pleasant --

REPORTER #1: mr. barnes, did the board consider you an 'idea man' when they promoted you from the mail room? 
NORVILLE: well, i guess so -- i don't think they promoted me because they thought i was a jerk.
REPORTER #2: mr. barnes, what's the next big idea for you and hudsucker industries?
NORVILLE: jeez, i don't know. an idea like this sweet baby doesn't just come overnight...
REPORTER: mr. barnes, are you --
NORVILLE: -- although i'll tell you one thing: i certainly didn't expect all this 'hoopla'! this tired old joke brings some polite laughter.
NORVILLE: ...and you can quote me on that!

REPORTER #1: mr. barnes, mr. barnes, rumpus magazine has called you the most eligible bachelor of the year, and the society pages have been linking you with high-fashion model za-za. would you care to comment? 
NORVILLE: there's no truth to the rumors; we're just dear friends...
NORVILLE: ...isn't that right, za-za?

ZA-ZA: gr-r-r-r-r-r-r-oww! 
REPORTER #2: ho-leeee!
REPORTER #3: mr. barnes, whither hudsucker?
REPORTER #4: how do you respond to the charges that you're out of ideas? has norville barnes run dry?
NORVILLE: not at all. why, just this week i came up with several new sweet ideas. a larger model hula hoop for the portly. a battery option for the lazy and handicapped. a model with more sand for hard-of-hearing. i'm earning my keep.
REPORTER #5: speaking of that, mr. barnes, do you expect to get a raise?
NORVILLE: well, by anyone's account i've saved hudsucker industries; our stock is worth more than it's ever been. so, yes, i expect to be compensated for that.

MUSSBURGER: pull yourself together, addison. 
ADDISON: nobody told me! nobody told me!
MUSSBURGER: we dumped the whole load. now quit showboating, addison --
ADDISON: i had twenty thousand shares! i'd be a millionaire now!
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure, we'd all be millionaires. there's no point in looking back. at the time, stilson thought dumping our position would panic the market, further depress the stock -- then we'd buy it all back, and more of course, once it got cheap --
ADDISON: cheap! cheap! it's never been more valuable! and i'm ruined! ruined!
ADDISON: i'm getting off this merry-go-round!
EXECUTIVE: addison!
ANOTHER EXECUTIVE: myron!
ADDISON: aaaaahhh!

MUSSBURGER: plexiglas. had it installed last week. 
EXECUTIVE: ...myron?
MUSSBURGER: all right, so the kid caught a wave. so right now he and his dingus are on top. well, this too shall pass. myrtle j. mussburger didn't raise her boy to go knockkneed at the first sign of adversity. i say, we made this kid and we can break him. i say, the higher he climbs, the harder he drops. i say, yes, the kid has a future, and in it i see shame, dishonor, ignominy and disgrace.

NORVILLE: hold it!... 
NORVILLE: ...nobody move, nobody breathe...
NORVILLE: ...an idea... is coming...

EXTREME CLOSE ON FLOOR: where the pin -- ping! -- hits. 
NORVILLE: deflates. he glares at the tailor.
NORVILLE: it's gone now.
FEMALE: miss amy here to see you.
NORVILLE: is she in the book? -- the door bursts open and amy storms in.
AMY: for pete's sake, norville!
NORVILLE: oh! hello, amy -- was it -- i thought she said, mamie --
AMY: never mind about that...
AMY: ...you know what those nincompoops in the boardroom are doing?
NORVILLE: well, i wouldn't call them nincom --
AMY: they're going to discharge eight percent of the work force here at hudsucker. why, in new york alone that means eighteen hundred people out of work, people with wives and children and families --
NORVILLE: well yes, we're pruning away some of the dead wood, but if --
AMY: you mean you know about this?
NORVILLE: know about it? you think the board would do anything like this without my authorization? no, this was my idea from the start.
AMY: your i --
NORVILLE: we have to be realistic, amy. you know things have slowed down a little here at hudsucker --
AMY: you're awful kind to yourself, norville barnes -- the fact is you've slowed down, sitting up here like a sultan, not doing a lick of work! why you know it's ideas that are the lifeblood of industry and you haven't come up with one since the hoop and the reason's plain to see! you've forgotten what made your ideas exciting for you in the first place -- it wasn't for the fame and the wealth and the mindless adulation of -- would you get out of here?!
AMY: ...i've been watching you, norville barnes, even though you've been trying to avoid me --
NORVILLE: now, aim --
AMY: shutup! -- and don't think i haven't noticed how you've changed. i used to think you were a swell guy -- well, to be honest i thought you were an imbecile --
NORVILLE: now, aim --
AMY: shutup! -- but then i figured out you were a swell guy, a little slow maybe, but a swell guy! well, maybe you're not so slow, but you're not so swell either and it looks like you're an imbecile after --
NORVILLE: now, aim --
AMY: shutup! -- after all! you haven't talked to me for a week and now i'm going to say my piece. i've got a prediction for you, norville barnes: i predict that since you've decided to dedicate yourself to greed and sloth and everything bad, you're going to lose all the good things that your good ideas brought you. you're going to throw them all away chasing after money and ease and the respect of a board that wouldn't give you the time of day if you... if you...
NORVILLE: worked in a watch factory?
GOON: huh-huh-huh!
AMY: shutup! exactly! don't you remember how you used to feel about the hoop? you told me you were gonna bring a smile to the hips of everyone in america, regardless of race, creed or color. finally there'd be a thingamajig that would bring everyone together -- even if it kept 'em apart, spacially -- you know, for kids? your words, norville, not mine. i used to love norville barnes -- yes, love him! -- when he was just a swell kid with hot ideas who was in over his head, but now your head is too big to be in over!
NORVILLE: now, amy --
AMY: consider this my resignation -- thwock -- she slaps him.
GOON: hey!!
GOON: ...awooooo!
AMY: -- effective immediately!!

VOICE: buddy... ya busy? 
NORVILLE: huh-whuh?
BUZZ: looks like ya nodded off there, buddy! say, ya got a minute?
NORVILLE: oh, uh... buzz... is it important?
BUZZ: i like to think so! it's this little idea i been working on!
BUZZ: ...ya see, i don't intend to be an elevator boy forever! take a look at this sweet baby!
BUZZ: ...ya get it, buddy? incredibly convenient, isn't it? ya see --
BUZZ: -- this is how it works, it's these little ridges on the side that give it its whammy! see, ya don't have to drink like this anymore --
BUZZ: -- now you can drink like this --
BUZZ: ...i call it the buzz-sucker, get it, buddy? -- after me! buzz! why, people are just dyin' for a product like this, and the great thing is we won't have to charge an arm and a --
NORVILLE: wait a minute!
NORVILLE: ...why, this is worthless.
BUZZ: huh?! but, buddy --
NORVILLE: this is the most idiotic thing i've ever seen in my life!
BUZZ: yeah, but, buddy --
NORVILLE: nobody wants a hare-brained product like this! ya see, buzz, it lacks the creative spark, the unalloyed genius that made, uh...
NORVILLE: ...say, the hula hoop such a success.
BUZZ: but, buddy --
NORVILLE: and what do you mean barging in here and taking up my valuable time! i've got a company to run here --
BUZZ: but, buddy, you were --
NORVILLE: -- i can't have every deadbeat on the hudsucker payroll pestering me with their idiotic brainwaves!
BUZZ: geez, i'm sorry, buddy --
NORVILLE: an example must be made!
BUZZ: wuddya mean, buddy?
NORVILLE: fired! you're fired! is that plain enough for you, buster!
BUZZ: awwww, buddy --
NORVILLE: and don't call me buddy! out of here! out!
BUZZ: aw, please, sir -- this job, it's all i got!
NORVILLE: get up!
BUZZ: i understand if ya don't like the buzz-sucker! just lemme keep my job, i'm prayin' to ya!
NORVILLE: we don't crawl at hudsucker industries! get out of my office! leave your uniform in the locker room!
BUZZ: i'm sorry, buddy... i'm sorry...
NORVILLE: buzz... off! ha-ha-ha-ha!

NORVILLE: sorry i'm late, sid. that back nine at riverdale is really murder. 
MUSSBURGER: sure, sure, it's a tough course. well thanks for coming, kid. i thought the board room would be a swell place to chat undisturbed -- it seems we're having some security problems here at the hud.
NORVILLE: ya don't say.
MUSSBURGER: mm. ordinarily i wouldn't bother you with it, but -- this is embarrassing, kid -- it seems to concern you directly.
NORVILLE: how's that, sid?
MUSSBURGER: it's not important in itself -- some elevator boy you fired came to me claiming you'd stolen the idea for the, uh, the hoop dingus from him --
NORVILLE: huh?! he -- no, i -- he's just -- maybe i was a little rough on the boy, ya see i --
MUSSBURGER: ah forget it, kid, ya don't have to explain to me. he's a little person. he's nothing. like i say, ordinarily it would just be a nuisance. but it seems -- well, there was a spy in the company...
MUSSBURGER: ...sure, sure, we tried to kill the story. but her newspaper won't play ball... looks like her story's coming out...
MUSSBURGER: ...see, kid, the problem the board'll have... you hired this woman. kept her on, while she made a chump out of you. serious error of judgment... i mean, business is war, kid -- ya take no prisoners, ya get no second chances. and a like this... i'm afraid when the board meets, after new year's, your position... well, it looks like you're finished... stick a fork in ya, you're done... washed up...
MUSSBURGER: ...i'm sorry, kid. i understand this dolly who betrayed you, she used to be a friend of yours...
MUSSBURGER: ...and this elevator dope used to be a friend, too...
MUSSBURGER: ...well, they've got your throat pretty well slit. and when you're dead, ya stay dead. ya don't believe me, ask waring hudsucker... yeah, looks like curtains. well, condolences, kid...

AMY: you can't print that! 
CHIEF: he grins wolfishly.
CHIEF: we are printing it! she's hittin' the streets this evening --

SMITTY: -- and she's dynamite! 
AMY: but, al, it's the bunk! norville showed me his design for the whatsit the day i met him! why buzz couldn't have invented it -- look at the man -- he's an imbecile!
CHIEF: archer, you're a broken record. fact is gunderson did design it -- apparently he's some kind of prodigy --
AMY: says who?!
SMITTY: you're not the only one with sources, amy --
CHIEF: smith has a source on the hud board -- very senior, very hushhush --
AMY: yeah, and i'll bet his initials are sidney j. mussburger!
SMITTY: you've lost it, aim. you've gone soft by the looks of it -- soft on the dummy from dubuque --
AMY: muncie!
CHIEF: whatever! it's no dig on you, archer, but this story is hot and you're no longer on top of it. why, it's the scoop of the century -- the other papers won't have the gunderson dope 'til tomorrow -- the allemeinischer zeitung, le figaro, they'll be choking on our dust come mornin' --
AMY: you're fools, both of you! it's obvious they're out to crucify norville! they're trying to destroy him!
CHIEF: amy -- take a break. you've worked hard on this story -- heck, you broke it for us! but it's passed you by and smith here has taken up the slack.
AMY: you want slack, i'll give you slack. you're not putting me out to pasture, al, i quit! consider this my resignation -- she turns to smitty --
AMY: -- effective immediately!
SMITTY: ...soft.

GERMAN VOICE: dell me vat is first zing droppensie head ven i menzhon ze vord... zex? 
NORVILLE: aww, what's the difference.

GERMAN VOICE: und ven i zpeak of authority? 
NORVILLE: awww, i dunno.

GERMAN VOICE: eggzplain please ze zignifikanz of ze straw. 
NORVILLE: nuthin', really.

ANALYST: patient dizplayed liztlessness, apathy, gloomy indifference und vas blue und mopey. 
ANALYST: ...ven asked vut four rhorschach stains reprezented, patient replied, 'nussink much,' 'i don't know,' 'chust a blotch,' und 'sure beats me.'

ANALYST: ...patient shows no ambition, no get- up-und-go, no vim. he is riding ze grand loopen-ze-loop -- 
ANALYST: -- zat goes from ze peak of delusional gaiety to ze trrrroff of dezbair. patient is now near -- but not yet at! -- ze lowest point; ven he reachensies bottom he may errrrrupt und pose danger to himself und uzzers.
MUSSBURGER: casually puffing on a cigar.
MUSSBURGER: diagnosis, dr. bromfenbrenner?
BROMFENBRENNER: patient is eine manic-depressive paranoid type b, mit acute schizoid tendencies.
MUSSBURGER: so patient is...?
BROMFENBRENNER: prezizely. knots.
MUSSBURGER: prescription?
BROMFENBRENNER: sree sinks! kommitment.

BARMAN: yeah, just get down here -- he says he's a friend of yours... he won't say, but man, is he from squaresville. 
NORVILLE: i want a martini! it's new year's eve and i want a martini!
BARMAN: daddy, it's like i been tellin' ya --
NORVILLE: i thought you served misfits here!
BARMAN: yeah, daddy, that's a roger, but we don't sell alcohol.
NORVILLE: what kind of bar is it if ya can't get a martini?!
BARMAN: it's a juice and coffee bar, man, like i been tellin' ya --
NORVILLE: i want a martini! on this bar, right now! i've had a martini in every bar on the way down here, and i'm not about to --
BARMAN: martinis are for squares, man.
NORVILLE: what'd you call me?!
NORVILLE: ...you son of a --
AMY: norville!
NORVILLE: huh?!
NORVILLE: ...oh, it's you! lookin' for a nitwit to buy your lunch?!
AMY: oh norville, i --
NORVILLE: barman! set'm up, fella!
AMY: norville, i'm sorry, i... i tried to tell you... so many times... it's hard to admit when you've been wrong. if you could just... find it in your heart to -- to give me another chance --
NORVILLE: hey! where's that martini?!
AMY: just give me another chance, norville -- i can help you fight this thing. i know this last story was a lie! we can prove it! we can --
NORVILLE: aww, what's the difference. i'm all washed up... when you're dead, ya stay dead... hey, fella!
AMY: well that just about does it! i've seen norville barnes, the young man in a big hurry, and i've seen norville barnes the self-important heel, but i've never seen norville barnes the quitter, and i don't like it! she starts pumping her arms, slowly chanting.
AMY: ...fight on, fight on, dear old muncie.
AMY: ...fight on, hoist the gold and blue; you'll be tattered, torn and hurtin' once 'the munce' is done with you! goooooo eagles!
NORVILLE: you lied to me! i can't believe you lied to me! a muncie girl!
AMY: but norville... i...
AMY: ... oh, norville! -- and bursts into tears.
REVELER #1: happy newby-newby-new!
REVELER #2: 1959 we dig you the most!

NEWSIE: extra! extra! new year's eve edition! 
NEWSIE: ...ring out the old! ring in the new!

MUSSBURGER: ...the barred-window boys are out looking for him now, and we'll see how wall street likes the news that the president of hudsucker industries is headed for the booby-hatch. why, when the doc gets through with him he'll need diapers and a dribble cup... 
MUSSBURGER: ...let me remind you that our secret post-new year's party will be held in the office of the president shortly after midnight tonight. remember, it's strictly stag, so leave the wives at home; we'll be showing some films and, yes, gentlemen, there will be exotic dancers.
MUSSBURGER: well, if that's all...

HIGH NIGHTMARISH DUTCH ANGLE: of the assembled around the table. 
ALL: long live the hud!
NORVILLE: norville trudges on, faster, sweatier.
VOICE: ring out the old! ring in the new...!
VOICE: ...ring out the old! ring in the new! ring out the --
VOICE: hey, watch where you're -- say, buddy!
NORVILLE: -- uh... buzz, i'm sorry, i -- buzz, you gotta forgive me! i shouldn't a fired you, i didn't know what i was doing! i was a little funny in the head, i --
BUZZ: aw, buddy, i don't care about that.
NORVILLE: ...you don't?
BUZZ: nah, that's all forgotten.
NORVILLE: ...it is?
BUZZ: sure, mr. muss -- uh, sid said i could have the job back.
NORVILLE: absolutely, buzz, i'm glad he --
BUZZ: but he told me you stole that swell hoop idea from me. what gives!
NORVILLE: but, buzz --
BUZZ: say, that was a swell idea!
NORVILLE: but, buzz, you know i never --
BUZZ: and sid says you stole it!
NORVILLE: but buzz --
ZA-ZA: well wuddya waiting for, clarence -- ? pop him one! boffo!
BUZZ: think about that, idea man!!
PASSERBY: say, isn't he that lunatic?
VOICES: ...that big-shot faker... the wall street fraud guy... nuttier than a fruitcake... they say he's a menace... wuddya waitin' for, call a cop!... we hear sirens.
VOICES: ...he's on his feet... we can take him! norville bursts through the crowd, running.
NORVILLE: runs, gasping, turning a corner.
VOICES: ...down here! he went down here!
DRUNK: ring out the old! ring in the new!

STATUE: mutely -- mockingly -- dignified. 
NORVILLE: he staggers off to the elevators.

VOICES: three... two... 
VOICES: ...one...
VOICES: happy new year!

BACK TO SCENE: norville waves. 
NORVILLE: no --

NORVILLE: -- no, please! 
HIS POV: looking steeply up.
CLOCK: its second hand is making its descent.
NORVILLE: falling.
MUSSBURGER: laughing.
SECOND HAND: descending.

VOICE: she'll be comin' around the mountain when she comes, she'll be comin' around the mountain when she comes... 
NORVILLE: he gapes.

ANGEL: love that tune. how ya doin', kid? 
NORVILLE: mr... mr. hudsucker?
HUDSUCKER: ta-daaaa!
HUDSUCKER: ...wooooo!
HUDSUCKER: ...how d'ya like this thing? they're all wearin' em upstairs now.
HUDSUCKER: ...it's a fad.
HUDSUCKER: ...anyway. i hear you've been having, uh...
HUDSUCKER: ...been having some problems with the board. the more things change, know what iyayayeeeeee...
HUDSUCKER: ...jesus christopher -- that smarts... where was i? oh yeah, the board. i guess sidney's been puttin' the screws to ya, huh, norman?
NORVILLE: norville.
HUDSUCKER: mm. well, say what you like about the man's ethics, he's a balls-to- the-wall businessman. beat ya any way he can. straight for the jugular. very effective.
NORVILLE: yes sir...
HUDSUCKER: anyway. any particular reason you didn't give him my blue letter? i mean, norman, just a dying man's last words and wishes, no big deal.
NORVILLE: huh? oh, geez, mr. hudsucker, i apologize, there was an awful lot of excitement and i guess i must've mislaid --
HUDSUCKER: it's sittin' in your apron pocket, right where you left it. imbecile.
NORVILLE: oh, geez.
HUDSUCKER: failure to deliver a blue letter is grounds for dismissal.
NORVILLE: geez, i --
HUDSUCKER: ah, it's new year's, i'm not gonna add to your woes. i'm just saying.
NORVILLE: yessir.
HUDSUCKER: well, why don't ya read it.
NORVILLE: sir?
HUDSUCKER: yeah, go ahead. might learn somethin'.
NORVILLE: yes sir...
NORVILLE: 'from the desk of waring hudsucker. to. sidney j. mussburger. regarding. my demise. dear sid. by the time you read this, i will have joined the organization upstairs -- an exciting new beginning. i will retain fond memories of the many years you and i --

HUDSUCKER: yeah, yeah, it's the standard resignation boilerplate -- go down to the second paragraph. 
NORVILLE: 'many years, uh... i know that you will be wondering why i have decided to move on, ending my tenure at hudsucker, and here on earth. you will be thinking, why now, when things are going so well? granted, from the standpoint of our balance sheet and financials, sure, sure, we're doing fine. however, sid. these things have long since ceased to give me pleasure. i look at myself now and no longer see the idealistic young man who started this company. now i see only an empty shell whom others call a 'success.' how has this come to pass? when and why did i trade all of my hopes, dreams and aspirations, for the emptiness of power and wealth? what the heck have i done?
NORVILLE: '...looking back now, sid, i see that i allowed time and age to corrupt my dreams. instead of fiercely guarding what was timeless inside of myself, i let the hubbub of earthly commerce erode my character, and dissolve my better self. how is it that some manage to preserve themselves where i have failed? sidney, i do not know. perhaps if others love you, you may more securely love yourself -- but i am alone. i loved a woman once, sid, as you well know -- a beautiful, vibrant lady, an angel who in her wisdom saw fit to choose you instead of i...'
HUDSUCKER: skip this part...
HUDSUCKER: ...last paragraph, last paragraph.
NORVILLE: '...and so, sid, the future does not belong to such as i -- nor even you. we have made our compromises with time. the future belongs to the young, who may more energetically wage the battle against corruption. accordingly, in the spirit of hope, and the ringing in of the new, i hereby bequeath my entire interest in the company, and my seat on the board, to whomever is hudsucker's most recent employee at the time of my demise. i know this will disappoint you -- you, sid, who have served so diligently and for so long. but --'
HUDSUCKER: -- tough toenails!
HUDSUCKER: ...that'll show the bastard!
HUDSUCKER: ...yeah, go ahead.
NORVILLE: '...but sid, let me urge you to work closely with the new president, and to keep giving hudsucker industries all your energies -- but not your soul. for while we must strive for success, we must not worship it. long live the hud. waring hudsucker...' norville gives a musingly appreciative nod.
HUDSUCKER: ...geez.
HUDSUCKER: yup. it's all there. well, see that it gets delivered in the morning.
HUDSUCKER: sheeel beeee...

SWEEP SECOND HAND: lurching forward -- 
PERPETUAL MOTION BALL: swinging down --

LOU: what the heck's he doin', benny? 
BENNY: what the heck's she doin', lou?
LOU: what the heck they doin'?
BENNY: you know what they're doin' now, lou.
LOU: this i know, benny.
BENNY: this you're familia' with.
LOU: ...geez.
BENNY: ...geez.
LOU: ...y'all right, benny?
BENNY: ...yeah, i'm... it's just... it's beautiful, lou!
LOU: it is beautiful, benny.
BENNY: ...it's the most beautiful t'ing i ever saw.
LOU: it's the most beautiful t'ing i ever saw.
BARTENDER: you cats comin' from a party?
BENNY: cabbies' affair.
LOU: hacks' new year's gala.
BARTENDER: crazy. get you anything else? sangria? carrot juice? herbal tea?

LOU: bromo. 
BENNY: ...bromo.

MOSES: and so began 1959. the new year... 
MOSES: ...and the start of a new business cycle. when he learned that norville owned the comp'ny, ol' sidney was upset at first.
MOSES: ...it's a good thing doc bromfenbrenner was there...
MOSES: ...'cause he was able to keep sidney from harmin' his ol' self.

MOSES: ...and started dreamin' up them excitin' new ideas again. you know, for kids! the board members look at the design, puzzled. 
MOSES: ...an' that's the story of how norville barnes climbed away up to the forty-fourth floor of the hudsucker buildin'...

OUTSIDE: as it floats out the boardroom window. 
MOSES: ...an' then fell all the way down, but didn't quite squish hisself.
MOSES: ...ya know, they say there was a man who jumped from the fortyfifth floor... but that's another story. heh-heh-heh! ya-heh-heh-heh!

