SAM: gimme a smoke. 
LYNN: don't got any.
SAM: what, you quit?
SAM: that ain't gonna last.

SAM: hey bug... 
PAIGE: you see yer sign? grandma and me made it this mornin.
SAM: yep, real nice.

SAM: how'ya doin, mom? 
DAISY: welcome home, sam.

LYNN: you excited, get some juice, help me set the table. sam and daisy enter. 
LYNN: hope you're staying for supper.
DAISY: well, i didn't know if...
SAM: what time you gotta work?
LYNN: i ain't on tonight.
SAM: what?
DAISY: you know we could boil up that corn we got in there...
SAM: friday night you ain't on? is that? he walks toward the fridge.
LYNN: paige, get that chair.
SAM: that mark better be givin you yer time or i'm gonna go over there and bust in his teeth. why ain't there no beer?

LYNN: i ain't dancin no more, sam. 
LYNN: quit a couple weeks ago. got a job over at freemont.
SAM: you tellin me the truth or is this a joke?
LYNN: pick up a second shift now and then.
SAM: good money? you stupid, woman? you quit strippin to pack mushrooms at freemont?
DAISY: sam...
SAM: mom, keep yer mouth shut.
LYNN: they're good to me over there, sam. they got daycare for paige and i can get medical at the end of the year.
SAM: tell you what you're gonna do, you're goin back to the bunny hop and askin that for yer old slot back...
DAISY: you ok? let's ride our bikes outside.
LYNN: no, sam...
SAM: you ain't. you gonna get that back up there and make yer tips.
LYNN: it ain't right.

SAM: you talkin about? 
LYNN: i ain't dancin cause it ain't right in eyes. he don't want me doin that no more.
SAM: you found now, huh? that what this is?
LYNN: he found me, and he's there for you too, baby.
SAM: don't gimme that you a junkie stripper...
LYNN: not no more. helped me change while you was away.
SAM: gitcha hands off me!
LYNN: you can't keep goin the way you goin, baby...

DONNIE: crazyhorse! there he is... 
DONNIE: figured you'd be rollin out round now.
SAM: i'm doin.
DONNIE: get us a coupla shots and buds.
DONNIE: don't look too worse for the wear.
SAM: i'm alright.
DONNIE: heard yer old lady ain't at the bunny hop no more.
SAM: found
DONNIE: that bearded sonuvagun slipped her the high holy while you was in the can, huh? better him than the milk man, i guess.
SAM: ain't so sure bout that.
DONNIE: you wanna taste?

DONNIE: hey, man, you there?! open up... 
SHAVED HEAD: are you?
DONNIE: it's me, man, c'mon. cold out here.
SHAVED HEAD: i don't know you.
DONNIE: yeah you do, man. i saw you the other day. i'm bobby's friend.

SAM: tell me where the is or i'll blow yer brains all over this floor. 
SHAVED HEAD: in there...
SAME: hurry the up.
SAM: cash!
DONNIE: c'mon, let's go!
DONNIE: are you doin?!
DONNIE: sam...
DONNIE: sam!

SAM: see that nigger's face when i put it in his mouth? 
DONNIE: cook that up, man! i wanna hit when i'm going a hundred miles an hour in this thing.

SAM: cold enough for ya out there, boy? 
DRIFTER: yeah.
DONNIE: where you goin, man?
DRIFTER: dunshore.
SAM: that's up there past muncy, right?
DRIFTER: yeah.

DONNIE: we can take you far as mcclure. 
DRIFTER: take me to dunshore.
SAM: we ain't goin to dunshore, boy. said we can drop you at mcclure.
DONNIE: what the
DRIFTER: keep drivin! dunshore or i'll cut his throat.
SAM: get that blade off him...
DONNIE: sam!

PAIGE: he comin or ain't he? 
LYNN: i don't know.

VOICE: honey? you ready? 
SAM: i don't got no good shoes, lynn.
LYNN: he don't care what kinda shoes you wearin, baby.

PASTOR KRAUSE: the point of receiving word is life. life upon life. and to accept the blood of is life upon life upon life... 
CONGREGATION: praise be to
PASTOR KRAUSE: he breathes his spirit into darkness and makes something good. he sees our shadow and says, `let there be light!"
CONGREGATION: amen!
PASTOR KRAUSE: ... now proclaim his saving grace! if there are sinners here looking for raise your hands!
PASTOR KRAUSE: stand up! receive christ as your light and saviour...

CONTRACTOR: thanks for your help, sam. 
SAM: you need me to stay on, i can.
CONTRACTOR: we're movin inside next week.
SAM: i can drywall, tile, whatever you got.
CONTRACTOR: sorry, sam, i gotta cut the crew. just ain't enough work.

SAM: she asleep? 
LYNN: think so, in our bed... she's funny.

SAM: job's done. 
LYNN: i thought that was goin through august?

WOMAN: i got somethin in pitt, but you gotta have some college for that. 
SAM: i'm a hard worker and i learn real fast.
WOMAN: but you got no education, mr. childers.

MECHANIC: ... don't deal bikes. probably have a better shot if you take it over to pitt. 
SAM: i gotta sell it today.
MECHANIC: give you four hundred for it.
SAM: there's almost two grand on this bike. them pipes right there is custom. you wont see pipes like that on anything round here.
MECHANIC: like i said, don't deal bikes. i'll give you four-twenty. cash. best i can do.

PAIGE: what's uttered? 
SAM: like spoke up, made a sound.

PAIGE: okay, keep goin. 
SAM: and out of the houses the rats came tumblin, black rats, brown rats, brother rats, sister rats, and husband rats followed their little rat wives... til they came to the ragin water where they drowned and lost their lives."
PAIGE: they got rid all them rats?
SAM: yep.
PAIGE: how come you sold yer harley?
SAM: cause it's what i had to do.
SAM: we're gonna be ok, bug, don't you worry.

DONNIE: well, well, well, wondered when i was gonna see you again, ole buddy. how you doin? 
SAM: i'm doin.
DONNIE: heard you was followin the lord now.

DONNIE: jackie, gimme a mash and bud... 
DONNIE: you want somethin?
DONNIE: you know that old indian didn't die out there that night. story in the lehigh valley news bout it. somebody picked that poor up after us, took him to the emergency room, you believe that
SAM: was lookin out for us both, i suppose.
DONNIE: well then, here's to him.
DONNIE: didn't hear you pull up.
SAM: got lynn's car.
DONNIE: she broke down on ya?
SAM: sold her.
DONNIE: ahhh, man. shoulda come to yer ole buddy first.

SAM: gave blood over in pitt. 
SAM: that's all i got.
LYNN: somethin will come through. i promise.

SAM: bug, you hear me?! -- bug?! 
PAIGE: yeah.
SAM: i'm thinkin of a snail... you hear me, bug?! snail.
21: and we hear her tiny little voice say...
PAIGE: whale.
SAM: good job, bug, good job! you said whale, i'm thinkin of a pail!
PAIGE: you said pail, i'm thinkin of a tail.

CONTRACTOR: sam. 
SAM: billy.
CONTRACTOR: tried to ring ya but your phones down.
SAM: yep.
CONTRACTOR: looks like ya made it through pretty good.
SAM: we're alright.
CONTRACTOR: twister touched down eight places between here and noblesville. chewed up six hundred homes in fulton county alone.
CONTRACTOR: got all the work you can handle if you're interested.
SAM: i'm interested...

SAM: but i'm puttin my own crew together. we go 50/50 on the jobs. you cover any heavy machines i need. 
CONTRACTOR: 60/40 til you pay me back on the tools.
SAM: you got a deal.

LYNN: what are you doin, sam childers? 
PAIGE: i wanna peek.
SAM: keep em closed.
SAM: ok. open em up.
PAIGE: where are we?
SAM: we're home, little girl.
PAIGE: that's ours?

SAM: sure is. go check it out. 
LYNN: it's beautiful.

SAM: that's everything. 
LYNN: you get what's in the trunk?
SAM: yep.
LYNN: lord, you're filthy, sam childers.
SAM: who you callin filthy, woman?
LYNN: you.
SAM: you dirtier than i am.
LYNN: no i ain't.
SAM: yes you are. i seen it. c'mon, girl, gimme a little shake...

LYNN: i ain't doin that no more. 
SAM: ... just a little somethin for yer old man, c'mon...
SAM: owww!
LYNN: you gimme a little shake... she snaps him again and he feels the sting...
SAM: c'mon, lynn...

RELLING: thank you pastor krause, and thank you brothers and sisters for inviting me into this house of the lord. 
RELLING: i'm here today to talk to you about your christian brothers and sisters, families just like yours, a half a world away that desperately need your help...

LYNN: paige, go get some more beans. 
LYNN: what are you thinking?
SAM: thinking about africa.
PAIGE: they have tigers over there?
SAM: they eat people!
LYNN: what about africa?
SAM: just thinkin bout that fella today.
PAIGE: he talked funny.
LYNN: just from a different place than us, baby, that's all.
SAM: was thinkin maybe i'd go over there. help em out fer a few weeks.

DAISY: africa? 
PAIGE: to see the tigers.
SAM: he was talkin about puttin box beam roofs on school houses over there.
LYNN: what about finishing that job in boswell?
SAM: i'll only be gone a few weeks. be back before you know it.

SAM: what's that? 
DENG: sudanese people's liberation army. we are freedom fighters.
SAM: name's sam childers.
DENG: i am deng.

SAM: givin ya problems? 
DENG: yes. a bit.
SAM: double-feed?
DENG: sometimes.
SAM: lemme have a look...
SAM: yer mag is tight. see here...
SAM: the loads are feedin right to the barrel face. that's yer problem...
SAM: ... you need this plate to ramp into the chamber... that way yer brass won't get stuck...
SAM: ... there ya go, should be better...
DENG: thank you.
SAM: no problem.
DENG: are you military?
SAM: no, not me. i ain't the military type.
DENG: when did you learn about weapons?

VOICE: hey childers... 
DAN: some of us are going into kampala tomorrow night. find ourselves a little fun this weekend. you in?
SAM: i was thinkin bout goin up north.
DAN: you crazy? there's a civil war going on up there.
SAM: i know.

SAM: hey, deng, you wanna coke? 
DENG: thank you.
SAM: got a question for ya.
DENG: yes?
SAM: i wanna go into sudan this weekend. need someone to show me around. you interested?
DENG: the others are going into kampala.

SAM: that ain't my speed no more. i wanna see some country. 
DENG: you want to see?

SAM: they always drive this fast? 
DENG: traveling is the most dangerous time in sudan. if the rebels find you on the open road it would be very bad.
SAM: you got kids, deng?
DENG: no. i have no children.
SAM: where you from?
DENG: a little village called aweil. many hours from here.
SAM: that's where your family is?
DENG: my family was killed by lra.
DENG: unyama is about two hours from here. we will stop there for lunch.

DENG: the muslim north has tried to kill the christian south for 30 years. two million have lost their lives... 
DENG: ... these people have been driven from their villages, however these camps are not much better...

31: deng turns to sam... 
DENG: i'm sorry, sam... i'll be five minutes.
SAM: course, do what you gotta do.
AGNETE: excuse me. you. can you help please?
AGNETE: we need to transfer her to the bed. get her shoulders...
AGNETE: one, two, three...
SAM: what happened to her face?
AGNETE: the rebels cut off her lips because she argued. these are kony's orders.
SAM: who's kony?
AGNETE: who are you with?
SAM: i'm with deng over there.

AGNETE: what organization are you with? 
SAM: working with a christian group down south. just up here takin a look around, seein a bit of the country.
AGNETE: this isn't a tourist destination, this is a war zone. you stay in this area, you'll be killed.
AGNETE: thank you for your help.

DENG: some say joseph kony is a wizard. a shapeshifter. he calls himself a christian... 
DENG: ... but i say he is satan, who devours his own people.
SAM: kony is the leader of the lra?
DENG: he is the one we have been fighting for years. but there is very little we can do. our weapons are old, and our boots are full of holes. we have been forgotten by the rest of the world.

DENG: why are you here? 
SAM: s'cuse me?
DENG: what are you looking for in this place?
SAM: ain't lookin for nuthin.
DENG: and then you will get your picture and go back to your life and all this will just be a story you tell your friends.

DENG: they are night commuters. they come from deep in the bush. their parents send them out because it is safer to sleep here than in their own homes. 
SAM: why?
DENG: because death comes at night in the villages and refugee camps.
DENG: these are the lucky one so far. the ones the rebels have not found. the invisible children.

DENG: where are you going? 
DENG: sam...

SAM: get up... let's go... 
SAM: come on...
DENG: what are you doing?
SAM: they ain't sleepin out here. tell em they're comin inside. ya'll get up... let's go...
DENG: sam, there are too many...
DENG: ... you can't help them all.
SAM: i can help these here.

DENG: the lra attacked a village last night. 
DENG: you said you wanted to see.

PAIGE: you see any tigers over there? 
SAM: naw, didn't see no tigers.
PAIGE: but they do have them over in africa.
SAM: so i hear, but not where i was.
PAIGE: sure am glad you're home.
SAM: me too, bug.
PAIGE: i'm thinkin of a plane...
SAM: it's late, you better get to bed...

PAIGE: c'mon, plane... i'm thinkin of a plane... 
SAM: you said plane, i'm thinkin of a train...
PAIGE: you said train, i'm thinkin of a brain.
SAM: you said brain, i'm thinkin of a...

PAIGE: gotcha! 
SAM: ok, you got me.
PAIGE: you coulda said drain, or mane... like horse's hair.
SAM: sweet dreams, bug.

LYNN: you comin to bed? 
SAM: in a bit
LYNN: you ok?
SAM: just a long flight.

LYNN: baby, whatcha doin? 
SAM: makin plans.
LYNN: you been to bed yet?
SAM: i had a vision last night, lynn. crazy as it sounds, spoke to me...
SAM: i'm gonna build a church.
LYNN: a church?

SAM: right across the street. not like faith united or calvary fellowship. place that ain't gonna turn you away if you a drug addict or a prostitute or whatever. place for sinners, just like me, who wanna hear the word of 
LYNN: how we gonna pay for a church, sam?
SAM: we got money in the bank. business is good. besides, i own a construction company...
SAM: i'm gonna give us one heck of a good deal on the build.
LYNN: yer crazy.
SAM: `lil bit.
LYNN: what's that?
SAM: that's the orphanage i wanna build. in sudan.

VOICE: sam childers... 
SAM: that's me.
BIKER: hey bro, ben hobbes, knew each other long time ago.
SAM: yeah, ben, how you doin?
DAUGHTER: daddy, i'm gonna go.
BIKER: ok, sweetie...
BIKER: goddamn, they grow up quick, don't they?
SAM: sure do.
BIKER: hey, nuthin fer nuthin, sam, but rumor has it you was puttin up a chapel over there in central city.
SAM: that's right. gonna minister to anybody who's lookin for the lord.
BIKER: that's good, man. maybe you can do somethin bout your old friend, donnie.
SAM: what about em?
BIKER: he ain't doin so good, bro. but hey, good seein ya' man.

DONNIE: i can't do this. 
SAM: look at me. don't make trash, boy. now he ain't givin up on you, so don't give up on him, you hear me?

LYNN: it's five-til and he still ain't here. 
SAM: you call him?
SAM: try him again.
DAISY: you like this dress, sam?
SAM: what, mom?

DAISY: you ain't never seen this one. i bought it a long time ago. been keepin it for a special occasion. 
SAM: it's nice.
DAISY: i never told you this but when i was pregnant with you, now this was way back, probably 1960, when yer daddy and i was still in grand rapids, a pastor prophesied over me. pulled me right up on stage and laid his hands on my belly and told me i was gonna have a preacher for a son. yer daddy and i were so proud. i remember we went home and neither of us could sleep all night. just laid there and talked bout you, bout what was comin.
SAM: i just built a church. i ain't no preacher.
DAISY: yes you are. you were born to it. just took you a little ways to get here.

SAM: the guest preacher we had booked today ain't shown up... so i thought i'd say a word or two. 
SAM: lotta yous been wonderin what made me wanna build this here church. seein as i ain't the best seed in the bunch i can understand that.
SAM: buncha years ago i was runnin from some bad fellas in the woods over there by cleary. those old boys was comin after me hard and i reached in my bag lookin for my old shotgun but it was gone. my momma had took it out when i wasn't lookin and put this bible in there instead...
SAM: well i figured i was done for, so i sat down under an old tree with this useless book and i waited...
SAM: ... and then the strangest thing happened. them boys ran right on past me. didn't even see me sittin there. now the way i figure it, things would have turned out pretty different if i had pulled out that shotgun instead of this here bible. and that's probably the first time i can remember savin my
SAM: and my momma.
SAM: figure least i could do was build em both this church.

SAM: be back soon as i can. 
PAIGE: you're gonna miss my play.
SAM: have momma videotape it for me, k? now i gotta git.
LYNN: call us when you can.
SAM: i will.
SAM: you watch out for em while i'm gone, ya hear?
DONNIE: that's done, buddy.

DENG: sam, wait... 
DENG: it is not safe here.
SAM: this is it...

ADMINISTRATOR: this is not a good idea. 
SAM: i think it's a heckuva good idea.
ADMINISTRATOR: it would be better further south. closer to kampala.
SAM: if i wanted to be closer to kampala, i'd be closer to kampala. i wanna be right here...

ADMINISTRATOR: he should not be this far north. 
SAM: what are you sayin?
ADMINISTRATOR: the villages in this area are very remote, mr. childers. there is nothing there.
SAM: then it seems to me them people need help the most.
ADMINISTRATOR: he will be killed.
SAM: talk to me.
ADMINISTRATOR: this is in the war zone, mr. childers.
SAM: i don't think you understand me, so lemme make it real clear to ya. i didn't pick this land -- did.

SAM: good to meet you betty. 
DENG: she is knowing that you need someone to run the orphanage.
SAM: i'm lookin for somebody who can keep the place in order. make sure things is taken care of when i'm away.
DENG: she can do this.
SAM: she's gonna have to take care of the children too, make sure they're fed, fix em when they're sick. can she do that?
BETTY: quiet now.
SAM: tell her she's hired.

BETTY: you two share a blanket and tomorrow we will find another. 
ROSE: shhhh, it's time to shut your eyes...

SAM: you know what's funny? in english your name means "darn it." 
DENG: what is this `darn it?'
SAM: deng. it means `shucks.' you know, like you stub your toe and you go "ahhhhh, deng!" get it?
DENG: this is not funny. in my language, in arabic, names are very important. they tell you everything about a man.
SAM: i'm sorry, buddy. it was just a joke.
SAM: what does sam mean in arabic?
DENG: small penis.
SAM: can i ask you a question?
DENG: of course.
SAM: you believe in god? deng considering this for a beat, and then...
DENG: i was raised to believe there was a in heaven.

SAM: maybe you'll invite him in again one day. 
DENG: i don't think so.

SAM: how many are there? 
DENG: two squads...
DENG: there -- and there.
SAM: where are your men?
DENG: i don't know.
SAM: they're gonna pick us off like this!

BETTY: stay down! -- stay down! -- 
ROSE: we are protected! -- sam bursting through the door --
SAM: -- betty! get em to the church right now!
SAM: quickly.
SAM: understand?! -- betty nodding as sam rushes out --

SAM: get yer men back to the church! that's our best shot! i'll cover you... 
DENG: to the church! --

SAM: put em in the middle! 
BETTY: down here! -- in the center! -- all of you! -- stay down!

DENG: four on the right! 
NINETEEN: there are too many!
SAM: just keep firin!

SAM: they burned it to the ground. all of it. ain't nuthin left. 
LYNN: where are you?

LYNN'S VOICE: sam? 
SAM: yeah.
LYNN'S VOICE: can you hear me?
SAM: i can hear you.

SAM: come on in... 
DENG: preacher, you need to come see this.

SAM: what's goin on? 
DENG: the acholi people were farmers before they were driven from their ancestral homeland. each year they blessed the soil before a planting.
DENG: they are saying that fire brings strength and ashes abundance...
DENG: ... when the land burns, the next year the soil produces more...
BETTY: the children are your fields...
DENG: ... she says you are a farmer and these children are your crops...

BETTY: ... and this ground will grow them tall. 
DENG: ... and this ground is richer now and they will grow stronger because of it.

SAM: what is she saying? 
BETTY: she is asking what she did wrong?

SAM: where did they find em? 
DENG: their village was hit out adjumani.

DENG: where are you going? 
SAM: adjumani.
DENG: sam, please wait...
SAM: i ain't waitin. you wanna see what waitin gets ya? take a look in that buildin over there...

SAM: no shot! there are children behind the truck! 
SAM: cover me!

DENG: why don't you just go home? 
SAM: what?
DENG: this is not your war.
SAM: you leavin?
SAM: well then, i ain't leavin neither...

WILLIAM: ... where are you from? 
ANTHONY: jabal.
WILLIAM: were you with the rebels?
WILLIAM: did you know my brother? he was called christopher.
WILLIAM: he has a funny left eye. it looks the other way sometimes. do you remember him?
ANTHONY: no.
WILLIAM: i am william. were you with the rebels?

SAM: mornin, buddy. william, no response. just staring up at him. 
SAM: ain't you gonna say nuthin?
SAM: ok then.

DENG: looks like you've got yourself a bodyguard. 
SAM: guess i do.
SAM: take care of things while i'm gone, ok?
DENG: i will, preacher.
SAM: you can't come with me, buddy.
DENG: get out of there.
DENG: come on! -- out! --

LYNN: we started daycare last month. monday thru friday from 8 to 2... sundays after first worship for a few hours if anybody needs it. how you doin, sue? 
VOLUNTEER: good. hey pastor.
SAM: sue.
SAM: been thinkin we need to put up a playground. swings. some things the kids can climb on.
LYNN: we can't build anymore. not for awhile.
SAM: you said sundays has been full.
LYNN: turn outs been good, but that don't mean people is givin money.

LYNN: economy is in trouble, construction business is slow. times is tight. 
SAM: be good for them kids, lynn.
LYNN: they got the playground over in cairnbrook. and they can play at the school on weekends if they want sam turning to her --
SAM: not talking bout here. talkin about the orphange.

DONNIE: what'cha workin on, buddy? 
SAM: trouble with the push rods i think. she's runnin kinda rough.
DONNIE: shoulda kept that mild in there `stead a buildin up a hot rod. let's see whatcha got here...
DONNIE: ... never had these problems when we was runnin solid lifters, huh?
SAM: used to fix them old shovelheads on the side of the road with a buckknife and a wire hanger.
DONNIE: remember that year we went to the freakers ball?
SAM: i think that old `78 broke down five times on that trip.

DONNIE: sounds about right. shoot, we had more fun tryin to get there than when we finally did. 
DONNIE: can i talk to you about somethin?
SAM: yep.
DONNIE: i'm glad i'm walkin with the lord and all, but sometimes i ain't sure i'm gonna be able to do what he wants me to do.
SAM: the lord don't ask for nuthin you can't deliver, buddy. and yer one tough ole boy.
DONNIE: sometimes i ain't so sure how tough i am.
SAM: why don't we pray together then...
SAM: our gracious heavenly father, bless us with the strength to carry on in your name. and grant us, in our darkest hours, the understandin that you are always by our side.

SAM: still got a ways to go, but we're gettin there. you should come on by one of these sundays, bring the family. 
BILL: that's nice of you, but we're at calvary now. bit more our speed over there i think. sam, getting down to business...
SAM: reverand carlton gives a mean sermon, puts me to shame. anyway bill, i'm here cause i wanna talk to you about what we're doin over there in africa.
BILL: course i know about what you're doin.
SAM: thank you, but i'm gonna be straight with ya. we're hurtin for money... if we had a little bit more support from people like yourself sure would help things run a lot smoother over there. bill feeling the rub, shaking his head...
BILL: sam, look, everybody is feelin the pinch around here.
SAM: i hear that, but you gotta understand that them kids over there got nuthin. i mean nuthin, bill, and i'm not asking for much.
BILL: how much you lookin for?
SAM: five thousand dollars.
BILL: christ, sam! five thousand dollars?
SAM: that keeps them doors open for another six months.

BILL: people are losin their jobs left and right round here. tough to be askin for five thousand dollars for a buncha african children half-way around the world. 
SAM: you're right. we got problems right here. but with that kinda money we could feed them kids, house them kids.
BILL: alright, tell you what, lemme see what i can do.
SAM: ok.
BILL: why don't you and the family come over to the house next sunday. we're havin a little barbeque, ok?
SAM: sounds good.

72: smiling, a joke she loves... 
LYNN: i'm lynn, this here is sam, our daughter paige.
SHANNON: good to meet you.
VOICE: there he is!
BILL: glad ya'll could make it. get on in here and meet some people...
BILL: this is a little somethin for the kids, ok? what we were talking about.
SAM: thank you, bill.
BILL: forget it. now c'mon, can i get ya a mojito or somethin?

PAIGE: why we leavin so soon? 
SHANNON: everything alright?...
SAM: get in the car.
LYNN: what's wrong?
SAM: sonuvabitch is cryin pour-mouth to me and he's livin in the taj mahal...
LYNN: sam...
SAM: i asked him for five-thousand dollars to feed a buncha motherless babies and you know what he gave me? hundred and fifty bucks. that's it. handed it to me like it was gold bouillon! sonuvabitch spent more than that on salsa for his party.

LYNN: what are you doin? 
SAM: i've had it with these people and all their about wantin to help...
LYNN: sam childers...

SAM: stay outta my way. 
SHOP OWNER: ... i'm sorry, twenty-five hundred is the best i can do for them gun.
SAM: throw in the car for five.

GARANG.: sam turns to deng -- 
SAM: who's this guy?
DENG: that's our leader.
SAM: john garang?

GARANG: they call you preacher. is this what i should call you? 
SAM: sam is fine.
GARANG: i hear what you have done for the spla and i am grateful.
SAM: we can thank for his blessins.
GARANG: yes, we can. how many children do you look after, sam?
SAM: couple hundred with us here. feed another thousand a day from nearby villages. anyone who shows up hungry gets a meal.
GARANG: what you are doing is noble, but too dangerous. i must advise you to stop risking your life in our struggle.

SAM: until someone starts fightin for these children, i'm the one that's gonna do it. 
GARANG: you are stubborn, aren't you?
SAM: as a mule.
GARANG: you and i come from very different worlds, but we are not so dissimilar.
GARANG: i founded the spla in order to fight for the future of sudan because nobody else would. we fight for freedom from the government in khartoum, for the right to vote, and for the right to worship any one may choose.
GARANG: but most important to me is our struggle for the children. their laughter has been lost to this country for far too long.
GARANG: there are peace talks scheduled for the end of august in naivashu. i'd like you to come as my guest.
SAM: talkin bout peace in a room somewhere is a waste of time. you gotta go out and make it.
GARANG: you are correct, but we must fight them at every level. part of my battle is waged in those rooms. we must talk of peace, but keep our rifles ready for war.
GARANG: maybe together you and i can make sudan free once again.

GARANG: there is a cost for freedom, sam. a price for the future of these people. some pay with their lives, others pay in different ways. 
GARANG: my only hope is that your cost is not too great.

DONNIE: you say prayers or somethin? 
PAIGE: already did.
DONNIE: ok then, sweet dreams.
PAIGE: ain't you gonna read me a book?
DONNIE: ahh, paige, you know i don't read so good.
PAIGE: then let's play a game.
DONNIE: ok.
PAIGE: i'm thinkin of a dog.
DONNIE: what about it?
PAIGE: never mind, donnie.
DONNIE: ok.

PAIGE: dad usually kisses me on the forehead before he leaves. you can do that. 
DONNIE: sure i can.
DONNIE: sweet dreams.

SAM: keep em closed! a little bit more! 
BETTY: keep your eyes closed.
ROSE: michael! cover your eyes! no peeking!
SAM: ... keep comin'...
SAM: ok, stop! open your eyes!
BETTY: open your eyes!

DENG: some of the child soldiers say there is a bounty on your life. that kony is offering money for your nose and ears. 
DENG: i'd like to assign a few more men to you during the day.
SAM: he ain't the first old-boy who wanted to see my head hanging on his wall. keep yer soldiers where they're needed. i can take care of myself.
SAM: he said anything yet?
DENG: all we know is that his family was killed and that he and his brother were taken into the lra.
SAM: where's the brother?
DENG: nobody knows.

SAM: hey buddy, you don't wanna play with the other kids? william, no response. 
SAM: you know sometimes it helps to tell somebody what you got locked up inside, know what i mean?
SAM: you have no idea what i'm sayin, do you?
SAM: i done a lotta things i ain't proud of. hurt a lotta people. truth is, helpin you kids is about the only good thing i ever done in this life.
SAM: but i'm scared. scared one day i'll close my eyes to all this and make it somebody else's problem.
SAM: just like everybody else in this world.

SAM: i don't see nuthin. 
DENG: this is it.

SAM: hold on... 
SAM: i got em.

SAM: what's he sayin? 
DENG: a.j. is dead.
SAM: 
SAM: tell him to stay where he is. don't move.
DENG: don't move!
SAM: ask him if he saw the shooter.
DENG: did you see him?!
DENG: he did not see.
SAM: you got `em?
DENG: yes. he's on the ridge... just below that outcropping.
SAM: can you reach the browning?

CRACKKK! -- THE SNIPER DROPS: killed instantly. 
DENG: i think you got him!

DENG: sam. 
DENG: lra wanted us here.

SAM: everybody ok? 
DONNIE: oh yeah, everybody's just fine. i was just callin to say `hey' is all.
SAM: how're the girls?

DONNIE: they're good. paige cooked us all dinner the other night. chocolate-chip pancakes. 
SAM: by herself, huh?
DONNIE: yep. i helped her with the stove is all. she did everything else. pretty good too.
DONNIE: how's it goin over there?
SAM: goin fine.
DONNIE: hey, maybe i'll come with you one of these trips. i'd like to get outta here for a spell. see what it's like.
SAM: sounds good.
DONNIE: ask you a question?
SAM'S VOICE: yeah.
DONNIE'S VOICE: you think will forgive us for the things we've done?

AGNETE: in the camps. the children. they say there is a white preacher who hunts the lra. this place does not need more killing, mr. childers. 
SAM: i'm just tryin to help these people. same as you.
AGNETE: war upon war does not fix what is broken here. the history of this country is filled with righteous killers. that is how it always begins, with men thinking they are killing for the right reasons.
SAM: i got a 200 kids who are gonna sleep safe tonight and wake up tomorrow mornin to a bowl of hot food. right or not, that's all the reason i need.
AGNETE: and what about the rumors i have heard about you supplying weapons to the spla?
SAM: you fight the evil in this place your way, i'll fight it mine.
AGNETE: do not delude yourself, mr. childers. you're a mercenary, not a humanitarian.
AGNETE: they say you are doing good. that you have special powers. that you are protected by angels and cannot be killed by bullets.
AGNETE: they said the same thing about kony in the beginning.

SAM: what's goin on? 
DENG: an lra convoy has moved north over the border. they're heading for ed duim.
SAM: that's where they sell em on the black market, ain't it?

NINETEEN: clear! 
SAM: bring me a flashlight.

SAM: what'd he say? 
DENG: the truck is too damaged to move. we don't have room for them all, preacher.
SAM: bring our truck up here and shine them lights on us.
SAM: pull everyone of them kids outta there.
DENG: bring the children out...
SAM: put em right here... real easy...
DENG: put them together here... gently...

DENG: what are you doing? 
SAM: we're takin the ones that ain't gonna make it through the night. come back for the others later.
SAM: tell her i'm not gonna hurt her.
DENG: it's ok... he will not hurt you...
SAM: put her in the truck.
SAM: tell em we're comin back.
SAM: tell em!
DENG: we will be back for you!

SAM: let's go! 
TWO FINGERS): two hours... i'll be back in two hours...
SAM: tell em to hide. don't come out til they see my face...
DENG: hide until we return!

CUSTOMS OFFICER: sudan? 
CUSTOMS OFFICER: what are you doing over there?

VOICE: sam! 
DONNIE: sorry i'm late. sixteen was all jammed up...
DONNIE: welcome home, buddy.

BANK MANAGER: i understand what you're saying, but there's just not a lot we can do, until we pay down some of what you owe my hands are tied. 
SAM: it's just an application for a short term loan.
BANK MANAGER: sam, we already took out a second on your home.
SAM: it's only 90 days.
BANK MANAGER: you're completely leveraged.
SAM: i only got one truck over there, john. i need the money to buy a second vehicle.
SAM: it's important. now, there's one in kampala i can probably get for twenty- one...
SAM: i want you to look at this. see that? twelve year old boy had both his arms cut off by lra...
BANK MANAGER: sam... it's not necessary.

SAM: look at this john, when we found this little girl her had been hacked off... bank manager not looking at the photograph... 
BANK MANAGER: sam, this isn't necessary...
SAM: look at her. look at this girl.
SAM: now i ain't in here askin fer money fer a hot tub or vacation or somethin like that. i'm askin for an extra vehicle so i can save some children. you understand that?
BANK MANAGER: i do, but...
SAM: but nuthin. i need you to open yer little book there and do whatever you need to do to get me that loan...
BANK MANAGER: sam, you need to calm down...
SAM: don't tell me to calm down! look at those pictures! -- look at em, john --

SAM: ... open yer eyes!... wake up!... 
SAM: you call yerselves children of but you ain't. ya'll just sheep followin him deaf, and blind...

PAIGE: mary strauss and them is havin dinner at the chimney. 
LYNN: who's her date?
PAIGE'S FRIEND: tony wilks.
LYNN: i thought tony wilkes was goin with patty hobbes' daughter.
PAIGE: they broke up last month.
TV NEWSCASTER: ... sudanese opposition leader john garang has been killed in a helicopter crash according to a statement released by the sudanese government in khartoum today.

TV NEWSCASTER: six of garang's associates and seven others also died in the crash which is being blamed on bad weather. 
PAIGE: dad? -- dad?
PAIGE: what do you think about us gettin a limo for next weekend? wouldn't be too expensive since there'd be six of us. sam lost here for a moment...
PAIGE: hel-lo? earth to dad? what do you think?
LYNN: honey, you ok?
DONNIE: heck, why don't i just drive ya'll?
PAIGE: we ain't crammin in the back of your caprice.
DONNIE: ya'll could fit in there easy.
PAIGE: we got dresses, donnie! we'll get all wrinkled! plus it smells in there.
DONNIE: i can get some freshener, paige, that ain't no problem.
PAIGE: dad, what you think? can we get a limo?

SAM: no. 
PAIGE: dad. please. patty and them is gettin one.
SAM: you ain't rentin no limo to pittsburgh.
LYNN: we could probably get us a deal through one of tom hickey's boys. between the six of them it wouldn't cost too much.
SAM: nobody's spendin money on no friggin limousine.
PAIGE: but dad...

LYNN: we're just talkin bout it, honey... 
SAM: too much talk in this house. i got mouths to feed and you're talkin bout money away on a limo.
PAIGE: it's my formal, dad.
SAM: i don't give a what it is! you ain't gettin no limo, end of story.
PAIGE: you love them black babies more than you love me.

LYNN: sam... 
DONNIE: hey...
SAM: what the you think you're doin, boy?
LYNN: honey...

DONNIE: take it easy, buddy. 
SAM: don't tell me to take it easy in my own house...
SAM: that ain't your wife and this ain't your family. you nuthin but a stray dog round here, boy.
DONNIE: you don't mean that...
SAM: i don't. now you get the outta here fore i put yer head through that wall.

BIKER: yep, you him. i seen your face in the papers few years ago. call you the machinegun preacher, right? 
BIKER: told you this is the guy.
BIKER: hot damn, i knew it! papers was talkin bout how you was like some kinda african rambo or somethin, right?
SAM: you don't mind, i'd like to just sit here right now.
BIKER: you still helpin them over there? sam bristling...
BIKER: the way i figure it, the reason you so interested in helpin them porch monkeys is cause you probably throwin it in them bitches, ain't ya?
BIKER: am i right? you a fucker, boy? a moment here --

LYNN: you're gonna sit there and you're gonna lemme talk. 
LYNN: i've always believed in you. i trusted you, trusted the lord, and did what i could so you could follow your dream.
LYNN: but i ain't willin to lose you to what you're doin over there. ain't gonna just stand by and watch you get swallowed up by it.
LYNN: i know you're all them kids got, but you're all we got too. paige needs her father. i need my husband.

DONNIE: hey buddy, it's donnie. shoot, i was hopin' you was there... 
DONNIE: other day i was thinkin bout when you and me was kids.

DONNIE: that summer we'd go down to the quarry over in montrose, remember that? we hooked up them ropes and spent all day swimmin and jumpin off them walls... 
DONNIE: i wish you was there to pray with me, buddy.

SAM: most of you want me to stand up here and make some sense outta this. that's why you come here today. you want me to tell you that has his plan for all of us, and when he wants to call us back home he's gonna do it. 
SAM: that's what you wanna hear...
SAM: that's what you wanna hear...

LYNN: s'cuse me, what are you doing? 
MOVER: loadin up...

LYNN: hey, s'cuse me... 
LYNN: sam, what's goin on? what are these men doin here?...
LYNN: where are they taking our stuff?
SAM: ain't ours no more. best go through and make sure they ain't takin nuthin that belongs in the house.
104: he walks off...
LYNN: sam...
LYNN: hey! -- don't touch that! --

LYNN: honey, i know you're hurtin. i know you're angry, but we need to talk about this... 
SAM: it's all done, so save yer breath... where's the keys to the safe?
LYNN: you sold the business for $27,000?
SAM: i need a new truck for the orphanage.
LYNN: a new truck? you sold our business for a new truck? sam finds the keys.
LYNN: that was our future, sam. paige's future. lynn follows sam into the office.

LYNN: everything we have has gone to those children, sam. there's a point when there ain't no more to give. 
SAM: what's the combination? what's the combination.
LYNN: paige's birthday.
LYNN: you don't know it, do you? you don't even remember your own daughter's birthday.
SAM: what are the numbers?
LYNN: you fight for everyone but us.
LYNN: you take that and we lose the house. the church. all of it.
SAM: you can make it up with the ministry.
LYNN: what ministry?! they see what you've become, sam. they see how far gone you are. you need to get quiet with the lord.
SAM: the lord.
LYNN: don't say that. don't turn yer back on him.
SAM: ... he turned his back on me! -- on donnie! -- on every one of them kids over there.
LYNN: the good you're doin is destroyin this family.

SAM: what good have i ever done? 
LYNN: please don't leave...

AGNETE: it's ok -- we are a relief convoy -- 
AGNETE: we have only medical supplies -- non-

AGNETE: we are only a relief convoy -- 
LRA LEADER: shut your mouth!

WILLIAM: i want to ask you something... 
WILLIAM: this is my brother. his name is christopher. he was stolen by the rebels.
WILLIAM: do you know if he is alive?

WILLIAM: were you taken when you were young like me? 
WILLIAM: do you remember your parents?

DENG: do you hear that, preacher? 
SAM: what?
DENG: there is no more laughter. the children do not play here anymore. they are scared once again.
DENG: but now they are scared of you.
DENG: the men do not trust you any longer to lead them into battle. they say you have a wish to die.
DENG: i am worried about my friend. i want to help him.
SAM: i don't need your help.

WILLIAM: i remember my parents when i sleep. i see them in my dreams sometimes. 
WILLIAM: my father was big like you. they shot him. we were so scared. then the rebels gave me a club and told me if i didn't kill my mother they would shoot my brother and me.
WILLIAM: i refused, but my mother told me to swing hard... that i must make her proud...
WILLIAM: and so i did. i made her proud.
WILLIAM: if we allow ourselves to become full of hate then they've won. we must not let them take our hearts. this is the most important thing.

PAIGE: hello? 
SAM: bug? you there?

PAIGE: dad? 
SAM: yeah, it's me.
PAIGE: you ok?
SAM: i'm ok, bug.
SAM: i'm thinkin of a tree...
PAIGE: you said tree... i'm thinkin of a knee.
SAM: you said knee, i'm thinkin of bee...
SAM: i love you, bug.

WILLIAM: excuse me... 
SPLA SOLDIER #3: what is it?
WILLIAM: is it true an lra commander was captured last night? soldiers nodding their heads "yes."
WILLIAM: where is he being held?
SPLA SOLDIER #3: at the army base in kisoro.
WILLIAM: are you going there?

SPLA SOLDIER #3: yes. 
WILLIAM: can i ride with you?
SPLA SOLDIER #3: why do you want to go to kisoro?
WILLIAM: i want to ask the commander something.
SPLA SOLDIER #3: no, you cannot ride with us. wait till tomorrow and go with the women on the bus.

DENG: some of the soldiers said he was asking about the commander that is being held at kismoro. 
SAM: get em on the phone, see if he's shown up at the base yet.

VOICE: stop! 
SOLDIER: he ran from us.

DENG: they have not see the boy. 
SAM: ok. get nineteen and marco -- we're gonna go look for him.

DENG: it will be light soon. what do you want to do? 
SAM: let's go through maridi, see if they've seen anything.

SAM: go! -- go! -- go! -- go! 
SAM: cease fire!!

SAM: pull em all out! c'mon, let's go! 
DENG: take them out.
118: soldiers start to unload the children --
SAM: cut them loose!
DENG: cut the ropes!

SAM: c'mon, let's go!... get em out of there and line em up! -- c'mon! -- 
SAM: load these here into the truck. put em three deep if you have to...
SAM: come with me --

SAM: get them ak's too. 
SAM: the machine guns.

SAM: i need all you to climb up on that roof and keep yer eyes peeled. that road back might be hot, so be ready. 
NINETEEN: what about you, preacher?
VOICE: we're staying.
SAM: go on. get outta here.

