CARRIE: turns out, a "knock-off" is not as easy to spot when comes to love... 
CARRIE: until it is.

CARRIE: that is why you need help to spot them... 
CARRIE: ... lots of help.

CARRIE: ... my meal ticket. 
CARRIE: we still are those four single girls...

4.: they kiss. a good kiss. 
CARRIE: in love.

BIG: i got a good feeling about this one, kid. 
CARRIE: i've always loved this block.
CARRIE: finding the perfect apartment in new york city is like finding the perfect partner. it can take years.
BIG: how many does this make?
CARRIE: this is thirty-three.
BIG: lucky thirty-three!

CARRIE: if anything else opens up let us know. we're very interested in this building. 
AGENT: i do have another apartment that's not even on the market yet. care to take a look?
CARRIE/BIG: sure.
AGENT: it's more than you were looking to pay.
CAROL: how much more?
AGENT: more.

CARRIE: oh my i've died and gone to real estate heaven. look at this place. 
CARRIE: hellooo, i live here.
BIG: must be the altitude.
AGENT: and across the rooftop terrace ---
CARRIE: what -- nirvana?
AGENT: your wife has quite a sense of humor.
CAROL: they're not married.
CARRIE: no, he's my boyfriend.
AGENT: this way.
BIG: aren't i a little old to be introduced as your boyfriend?
CARRIE: point taken. from now on... you'll be my man friend.
BIG: sounds like a dog.
CARRIE: well, if the shoe fits.

AGENT: and this is the master bedroom. 
CARRIE: hideous. hate it. hurts my eyes. big laughs, carrie walks around taking it in.
CARRIE: how is this place even available?
AGENT: nasty divorce.
CARRIE: if you live here what is there to fight about?
CARRIE: this is the master closet? no.
AGENT: yes. small for a room this size. i know.
CARRIE: hmmm. hmmm. now, i understand the divorce.
BIG: i can build you a better closet.
BIG: welcome home, baby.
CARRIE: can we afford this?
BIG: i got it.

CARRIE: "i got it." just like that. "i got it" -- like he was picking up the check for coffee or something. 
CHARLOTTE: it sounds perfect.
CARRIE: except for the closet which big says he can redo -- also he says the kitchen needs work but i don't know about that `cause i keep sweaters in my stove.
MIRANDA: so, he bought it -- and you're going to live there with him?
CARRIE: yes, together. that's right.
MIRANDA: but he'll own it. so. you are keeping your own place, right?
CARRIE: oh, miranda, please, i haven't figured out all the details yet, but i'm a smart girl and i'm sure i'll figure out something i'm comfortable with.
MIRANDA: i just want to make sure you're being smart here --
CARRIE: and i love you for it -- but for now can't you stop worrying for me and just go ahead and feel what i want you to feel. jealous.

CARRIE: jealous of me living in this gorgeous penthouse in manhattan. 
MIRANDA: fine. i'm jealous. you're in real estate heaven and i'm in brooklyn.
CHARLOTTE: new york magazine said brooklyn is the new manhattan.
MIRANDA: whoever wrote that - lives in brooklyn.
CARRIE: there she is. hey hollywood!
SAMANTHA: samantha jones... smith jerrod's manager -- i'm in new york `till monday.
CARRIE: how was your flight?
SAMANTHA: fabulous. let's go in -- i am so excited!

CARRIE: it was a rare occasion that brought all types of women together. the socialites, the trendies the yuppies, the yentas. 
YENTA: why the pushing?

CARRIE: blair elkenn was a waitress turned model turned actress turned billionaire's girlfriend who came home one night to find herself unceremoniously turned out on the street. 
CARRIE: and now she was getting the ultimate break-up revenge. an embarrassing and very public auction of all the jewelry he had given her when they were happy.
SAMANTHA: there it is. my baby.
CARRIE/BIG: and she's a beauty.
SAMANTHA: when i saw this in the catalogue i said to smith: this flower ring is the essence of me. one of a kind, filled with fire...
CARRIE: and a little too much.
SAMANTHA: exactly. come on. let's go spend some of my hard-earned hollywood money.
MIRANDA: hey -- what's coming up on smith's series? is he going to sleep with that new blonde neurosurgeon?
SAMANTHA: he sleeps with every hot woman doctor in that hospital.

MIRANDA: great. can't wait. 
CHARLOTTE: don't you ever get weirded out by seeing smith in bed with all those other women?
SAMANTHA: no, i think it's hot. sometimes, when i'm alone, i right along with them.
CARRIE: and people say the golden age of television is over.
SAMANTHA: besides, it's fake sex. when they're doing it -- no one's actually turned on.
MIRANDA: kinda like steve and i.
MIRANDA: i'm kidding. but come one-- it's been seven years. he does that, i do this... it's not like a new plot twist is going to turn up.
AUCTIONEER: next item. the flower ring.
CARRIE: if schadenfreude is the word for feeling pleasure at someone else misfortune -- this was "jewelryfreude."

AUCTIONEER: let's start the bidding at ten thousand. 
AUCTIONEER: thank you madame. do i hear fifteen?
SAMANTHA: 
CARRIE: and the gloves are off.
AUCTIONEER: do i hear twenty?
AUCTIONEER: twenty. do i hear twenty-five?
AUCTIONEER: twenty-five. thirty?
AUCTIONEER: thirty-five?
MIRANDA: she's bidding for someone on the phone.
CHARLOTTE: that's not fair.
AUCTIONEER: thirty-five. forty?
SAMANTHA: i deserve this. i work hard.

AUCTIONEER: do i hear forty? 
AUCTIONEER: do i hear forty fi--
AUCTIONEER: fifty?
SAMANTHA: with only one man for i don't know how long.
AUCTIONEER: do i hear fifty thousand?
SAMANTHA: fifty thousand!
AUCTIONEER: fifty-five?
AUCTIONEER: sixty? sixty to our colorful bidder?
SAMANTHA: i draw the line at fifty.

BABY VOICED WOMAN: isn't it? 
BABY VOICED WOMAN: i thought it was just sad for me `cause i know her. but it's really sad, huh? and it's funny cause they were so happy.
SAMANTHA: ... till they weren't
BABY VOICED WOMAN: i know, right? we all told her to get married -- but she didn't want to push him. he'd been married three other times. so, she let it ride and then she came home one night and he had locked her out. she didn't even have anywhere to live. after ten years. such a shame. she was a smart girl till she fell in love.

BIG: the creatures are ready. just gonna sit there? 
CARRIE: i'm not sitting, i'm thinking.
BIG: here. husk and think.

CARRIE: i'm thinking i'm going to sell my apartment and put the money towards heaven on fifth. 
BIG: why? you love your place.
CARRIE: i know but --
BIG: but what?
CARRIE: we're together ever night -- so i'm basically paying a mortgage on a glorified closet.
BIG: you write there. it's your office.
CARRIE: there's plenty of room at the new place and -- besides.. i want to make us -- a life there. i want it to be ours.
BIG: it is ours. i bought it for us.
CARRIE: and that's so amazing --but you bought it, so it's really your place. and -- if anything were to happen...
BIG: what's going to happen?
CARRIE: i have to be smart here. i mean, we're not married and i'd have no legal rights to... this home that i built... with you.
BIG: did you want to get married?

CARRIE: i didn't think it was an option. 
BIG: well, mr. bradshaw, what if it was an option?
CARRIE: well, people are always assuming we are.
BIG: and you know what happens when people assume. they make an out of who?
CARRIE: you and me.
BIG: what do you think, kid?
CARRIE: why -- do you want to get married?
BIG: well, i wouldn't mind be married to you. would you mind being married to me?
CARRIE: no, if that's what you want. is that what you want?
BIG: i want you. so. okay.
CARRIE: okay. really? we're getting married.
BIG: we're getting married. should we get you a diamond?
CARRIE: no, please, don't get me a diamond. get me a really big closet.

BIG: deal. 
BIG: but... you gotta do better on that corn. look at all the stuff left on there.

CARRIE: so, the other night, big and i were talking about, you know, moving in together and our future... charlotte's eyes are getting wider and wider. 
CARRIE: ... and about what makes sense as we move forward. and, well... we decided to get married.
MIRANDA: ... and i'm deaf.
CARRIE: everyone's looking
CHARLOTTE: sorry! i'm sorry... but my friend here, just got engaged and she's been going out with the man for ten years.
CARRIE: i am mortified.
MIRANDA: there is literally a ringing in my ear.

CARRIE: well... i made a little decision that i hope you'll be happy about. 
SAMANTHA: oh, honey... you finally got botox.
CARRIE: no. i did not get botox
SAMANTHA: i'm telling you, carrie -- you'll love it.
CARRIE: i did not call to talk about botox.
SAMANTHA: i'm just saying.
CARRIE: so... last week, after the auction, i started thinking about my options.
SAMANTHA: right.
CARRIE: right, and... well, big and i decided to get married.
SAMANTHA: really?
CARRIE: yes.
SAMANTHA: that's great.

CARRIE: you sounded more excited about the botox. 
SAMANTHA: well, honey -- i am excited for you but -- you know me... i don't really believe in marriage.... botox on the other hand -- that works every time.
SAMANTHA: honey, i've got to go. the people magazine person is on hold. smith's on the short list to be their "sexiest man alive." we can catch up when i'm in town next week.
CARRIE: hello?
SAMANTHA: i think i was in shock. i mean, it's you getting married. this is not some random person -- it's you.
CARRIE: i hear ya.
SAMANTHA: and i guess, i thought that after that big mess with aidan -- you'd never want to get married.
CARRIE: i know.

SAMANTHA: so, i put you in my "we're never getting married" file. now, i've got to take you out of that file. 
CARRIE: sorry about the extra paper work.
SAMANTHA: you'll get my bill.
CARRIE: samantha, it feels so different this time. no clichã© romantic kneeling down on one knee. just you know, two grown-ups -- making a decision about spending their lives together.

SAMANTHA: well, i'm happy for you. 
CARRIE: and one more thing... i want you to be maid of honor. how do you feel about that?
SAMANTHA: the same way you feel about botox. painful and unnecessary.

CHARLOTTE: 74, 75, 76.... seventy-six guests. 
ANTHONY: seventy five sounds better. "a small, wedding of seventy five guests." carrie looks at the list.
CARRIE: as a wedding gift, charlotte had given me anthony marantino -- friend and wedding planner.
CARRIE: what? she was borderline anyway.

ANTHONY: cut throat -- i love it. i hope you're that decisive when it comes to the location and the dress. 
CARRIE: oh. i found the dress.
CHARLOTTE: what?! when?
CARRIE: the other day. i have it here.
ANTHONY: this is going to be good!
CHARLOTTE: i'm so excited!
CARRIE: here it is.
CARRIE: well... that was the exact reaction i was aiming for.
CHARLOTTE: no, it's pretty but it's so -- simple.
CARRIE: simple and classic. when i saw it i just thought: that is what i should marry big in.
ANTHONY: well, who's it by? the label?
CARRIE: no one. i found it in a vintage shop.
ANTHONY: "the bride wore a dress by no one."

22.: she turns and heads back into the closet. 
CARRIE: don't worry, i'll style it up with shoes.
ANTHONY: the invitation is fancier than the dress.
CARRIE: i heard that.

CARRIE: and from anthony marantino to spaghetti marinara. 
MIRANDA: where is he with the check?
STEVE: geese, miranda -- relax. magda's not even finished yet.
MIRANDA: i still have a legal brief to work on when i get home.
BRADY: i have to go to the bathroom.
MAGDA: i'll take him. wash that beautiful face too, yes?
MIRANDA: what? i'm sorry. i'm exhausted.

STEVE: he woke me up too. 
STEVE: you got milk on your top lip.
STEVE: what now?
MIRANDA: it's like you're always criticizing me.
STEVE: i am not. you want to go through life with foam on your lip and no one telling you? silence. he reaches down and picks up her coffee cup and sips... putting lots of foam on his lip. he looks over.
STEVE: anything you want to tell me?

MIRANDA: yeah. yeah. 
STEVE: wait --- wait -- don't come already...
MIRANDA: yeah. yeah.
STEVE: wait, wait -- get on top. get on --

MIRANDA: it's late... let's just get it over with. 
MIRANDA: i mean -- we have to get up in four and half hours.
STEVE: we never have and you want to get it over with?
MIRANDA: steve... we have sex.
STEVE: when was the last time we had sex?
STEVE: there was snow on the ground.

MIRANDA: how often do you guys have sex? 
CHARLOTTE: miranda -- please.
MIRANDA: what?
CARRIE: it's okay, i know all about sex.

CHARLOTTE: no, we can talk, let's just not use that word. 
MIRANDA: she's three, she doesn't know what it means. i'm forty- two and i still don't know what it means.
CHARLOTTE: i know, but she's repeating everything.
MIRANDA: fine. how often do you guys...
CARRIE: ... "color"?
CHARLOTTE: thank-you.
SAMANTHA: well, i can't color enough. i would color all day -- every day if i had my way. i'd use every crayon in my box.
CARRIE: we get it. you love to color. why are you asking?
MIRANDA: steve and i were "coloring" last night and just as i was about to -- miranda is searching for a word she can use.
SAMANTHA: come? sorry -- there is no crayon equivalent.
MIRANDA: he wanted to change positions and i said... "let's just get it over with."

MIRANDA: well, he kept trying to make it last longer. 
SAMANTHA: and this is bad?

MIRANDA: it is when you have a full-time job. 
SAMANTHA: i have a full-time job.
MIRANDA: well, you don't also have a five year old and play groups and pta and a mother-in-law in a rest home with advancing alzheimer's. i'm telling you, at the end of the day all i want to do is sleep. the most exciting thing in bed now -- is the bed.
CARRIE: so... sleep is the new sex?
LILY: sex.
CHARLOTTE: see.
CARRIE: -- i meant coloring.
MIRANDA: we're just going through a no coloring phase -- it comes and goes, right?
CHARLOTTE: every couple is different. harry and i -- carrie and samantha look over; interested.
CHARLOTTE: ... make love two or three times a week.
MIRANDA: great. now i feel worse.
SAMANTHA: well, when was the last time for you?
MIRANDA: six months ago.

CARRIE: oh my. 
MIRANDA: but that's a dry spell.
SAMANTHA: i bet it is.
CHARLOTTE: what about you and big, carrie? come on, i told.
CARRIE: never. but, i will tell you this. when big colors -- he rarely stays inside the lines.
MIRANDA: well, this was very helpful.

SAMANTHA: send it to smith jerrod at the office address. 
SAMANTHA: i've got to go. something just came up.
SMITH: i've got a gift for you.
SAMANTHA: so far, i like it.

SAMANTHA: how did -- wait -- that was you on the phone at the auction? 
SMITH: i knew how much you wanted it.
SAMANTHA: but i was going to buy it for myself.
SMITH: i wanted to give it to you... for our anniversary. we met five years ago today.
SAMANTHA: right.
SMITH: do you like it?
SAMANTHA: to be clear -- this is a ring with diamonds -- not a diamond ring, right? in that case... i love it. it's my second favorite thing i've ever found in there.
SAMANTHA: now, my gift's a little bit more...
SMITH: babe -- i've got to go to bed.
SAMANTHA: bed? it's seven-thirty.

SMITH: i have to be at the studio by six a.m. and i need to get a workout before that. 
SAMANTHA: this is how it starts. next thing you know... we're only having three or four times a week.
SMITH: most people consider that normal.
SAMANTHA: i am not most people.
SMITH: no - you most certainly are not.

CARRIE: one glass of merlot and two later. 
CARRIE: and that is how samantha learned she had a new neighbor.

CARRIE: lean? 
BIG: are you the last person in new york still taking out library books?

CARRIE: i love the smell. 
BIG: that's an old one.
CARRIE: "the love letters of great men." volume one.
BIG: am i in there?
CARRIE: no, but some of your classmates are. voltaire, napoleon...
BIG: you need to get glasses.
CARRIE: no, i don't -- you have them. here's napoleon... "my dearest josephine, i wake consumed with thoughts of you --"
BIG: typical short guy. gives it all away up front.
BIG: why are you reading this?
CARRIE: research for my new book.
BIG: what's it about?
CARRIE: love. i use to write about finding love-- now i want to write about what happens after you've found it.

BIG: interesting. what happens? 
CARRIE: stay tuned.

29.: he smiles. she looks at the book again. 
CARRIE: listen... here's beethoven.
BIG: bring it, ludwig.
CARRIE: "my thoughts go out to you today my immortal beloved. i can live only wholly with you or not at all."
BIG: good stuff.
CARRIE: "be calm my life, my all. only by calm consideration of our existence can we achieve our purpose to live together. oh continue to love me, never misjudge the most faithful heart of your beloved. ever thine -- ever mine -- ever ours. silence. the beautiful sentiment hangs in the air. she closes the book and looks up at him.
CARRIE: have you ever written me a love letter?
BIG: does a love fax count?
CARRIE: when have i ever gotten a love fax?
BIG: i'm pretty sure my secretary sent one at some point.
BIG: what can i say, baby? not my style. besides, these guys had to write-- they were separated from their loves by wars and hundreds of miles. i'm right here.

BIG: hi. 
BIG: you make me very happy.
CARRIE: yeah, yeah.... put it in writing.
BIG: alright. here's a love letter from me to you.
BIG: loving you. is easy... `cause your beautiful...

CARRIE: i've been thinking. 
BIG: again?
CARRIE: how about we get married at the new york public library? think how perfect. you and i and our love story surrounded by all the other lesser love stories.
BIG: do we have to make that big of a deal?
CARRIE: it's not that big a deal. it's seventy-five people in a room that's partitioned in half.
BIG: it's just -- i've already had two big weddings.
CARRIE: well, what did you have in mind?
BIG: i don't know -- a judge, couple friends and then we go for ham and eggs after.
CARRIE: interesting.
BIG: would we have to whisper? in the library?

32.: carrie looks over at him, softens a little. 
BIG: "do you, carrie" -- shhhh. "take this man" -- shhhh!
ELAINE: carrie, hi!
CARRIE: elaine, hi. do you know john?
ELAINE: no, hi. nice to meet you.
CARRIE: elaine writes a single gal column for the new york post.
ELAINE: please -- i'd rather you reveal my weight.
ELAINE: so, what's new?
CARRIE: well. we're getting married.
BIG: yep -- at the new york public library.
ELAINE: oh, my this gives me such hope.
ELAINE: thank-you. thank-you for marrying someone our age.

CHARLOTTE: "the ultimate single gal carrie bradshaw will be married in manolos to new york financier john james preston come fall." 
CARRIE: our wedding's on page six.
BIG: who would put that in there?
CHARLOTTE: "proving to single gals everywhere that there can be a happy ending over forty."
CARRIE: oh, i know who.
CARRIE: later that day, i met my friend stanford for our weekly quick lunch and gossip session... also known as "dish then dash."

STANFORD: according to a certain trashy tome, you are marrying john james preston. 
CARRIE: rumor has it.
STANFORD: just one question: does big know?
CARRIE: where are we eating?
STANFORD: anywhere you like... and you know the rule -- the person on page six pays for lunch.

CARRIE: it seemed everywhere i went... people i knew were excited and available to come to the wedding. 
STANFORD: you forgot to charge us for the gaggle of gays.

BITSY: carrie bradshaw preston! carrie bradshaw preston! 
BITSY: mazel tov! saw you on page six! september? october? when? look! will you look! i got so excited -- no shoes. i'm standing barefoot on a new york sidewalk probably getting trichinoses.
BITSY: we're at the same address -- different floor. just send it -- they'll get us the invite.
CARRIE: the shocking thing was not the plethora of empty autumn social calenders but knowledge that everyone does indeed read page six.

ENID: we're putting together our annual "age" issue -- and we'd like you to do forty. 
CARRIE: great. who am i interviewing?
ENID: no. you. you are forty. i want you to be featured in the magazine as the forty year old -- and here's the brilliant twist -- bride.
CARRIE: wait -- i would be in the magazine?

ENID: in bridal couture. it's a once in a lifetime opportunity - so spare me a week of faux soul-searching and just say yes. 
CARRIE: enid -- i'm so very flattered but--
ENID: carrie. vogue designers, vogue photographers, vogue airbrushing. nod your head: yes.
ENID: thank-you. it will be a sensation. we're calling it: "the last single girl."
CARRIE: well, i'm hardly the last single girl.
ENID: no, but forty is the last age you can see a woman photographed in a wedding gown without the unintended diane arbus subtext.
CARRIE: i thought the issue was "great style at every age."
ENID: style yes... bride no.
CARRIE: enid -- i have no idea -- were you ever married?
ENID: briefly. in 1975. i wore halston. creme. one shoulder grecian with a low-cut bodice to the waistline for a dramatic flair. the fabric in the sleeves formed oval draping on the sides. stunning. my future husband and i saw it on a trip to paris and he fell in love with it.

ENID: insisted i be married in it. so i was. we had quite a beautiful party. 
CARRIE: why didn't the marriage work out?
ENID: did you not hear me say my husband fell in love with my gown? has your fiancã©e expressed any interest in what you'll be wearing?
CARRIE: none at all.
ENID: then you may have a shot.

SAMANTHA: she's looking quite at home for someone who didn't think she had the bride gene. 
CHARLOTTE: well, i guess with the right man...
STANFORD: ... and the right dress.
STANFORD: when i get married, i'm wearing something like that. but bigger.
CARRIE: just your typical wednesday. breakfast with... vera wang.
CARRIE: mid-morning coffee with.... carolina herrera.

CARRIE: appetizers with oscar de la renta. 
CARRIE: lunch with lanvin...
CARRIE: ... and lacroix.
CARRIE: ... and dior.
CARRIE: and for dessert -- vivienne westwood.

CARRIE: a confection so special... 
CARRIE: ... it could wring a wedding tear from even the most unbelieving of women.

BIG: okay. open them. 
CARRIE: double door. so far so good.

CARRIE: well. you did me proud, mister. 
BIG: like it?
CARRIE: like it? it's love at first sight.
CARRIE: now, i believe this is all really happening.

MIRANDA: i can't believe it sold so fast. 
CHARLOTTE: it's a sign.
CARRIE: yeah, a sign i priced it too low.
CARRIE: that's the food -- money on the table. i'll get started in the closet... i should be done in seventeen years.
CHARLOTTE: pink post-it -- take. purple -- toss. yellow: storage.

CARRIE: you're good friends. 
CHARLOTTE: samantha! oh my
CARRIE: what are you doing here?!
SAMANTHA: i lot of went down in this place. attention must be payed!

MARY: who are you again? 
MIRANDA: oh, you know me -- i'm your daughter-in-law. i'm miranda.
MARY: that's right.

MIRANDA: while i run over to see your mother tomorrow maybe you can take him to the first birthday party alone. then -- i'll meet you at the twins' party and you can leave and be at the bar by six. 
MIRANDA: what's the matter? steve.
STEVE: -- i had with someone else.

43.: miranda can't believe her ears. 
STEVE: -- and you are so amazing with ma and everything... everything you do and i can't believe i would do that to you.
STEVE: you and i hadn't had in a really long time and i --
STEVE: it didn't mean anything -- it was just once... and it's been killing me.
MIRANDA: it's killing you?!
STEVE: it just happened... i wasn't thinking.
MIRANDA: do not follow me.

CARRIE: hi. 
MIRANDA: surprise -- here we are!

CARRIE: well, i'm so excited you are here for a sleepover. 
MIRANDA: we are too. aren't we b-boy?
MIRANDA: here. mommy has to go to the bathroom.
CARRIE: brady, do you want to go have some peanut butter?
BIG: peanut butter it is.

MIRANDA: apparently you don't have for six months he runs out and has it with some girl at his bar. 
CARRIE: steve. i can't believe it. steve.
MIRANDA: steve. when i think of everything i've done for him. and this is how he repays me. man, if i didn't have brady, i would never go back there. miranda looks furious. carrie nods, in shock.

CARRIE: the next night, for the sake of brady, miranda went against her instincts and went home. 
STEVE: miranda, it's still me.
MIRANDA: is it?

MIRANDA: yes, it's sad, but i'm not going to make it any sadder by staying at a bad hotel while i look for a place. pass the salt. 
MIRANDA: plus, i have to be downtown and close to brooklyn. we're going to keep things as normal for brady as we can. i'll pick him up on my days... take him over on steve's.

CARRIE: i don't know if this question is allowed -- but how is steve handling this? 
MIRANDA: says he's devastated -- begs me to forgive him. not going to happen. i can barely even look at him.
CHARLOTTE: steve -- i can't believe it.
CARRIE: that's what i said.
SAMANTHA: miranda, honey -- are you sure you want to do this? it's just one time. anyone can have a slip.
MIRANDA: well, even if i could get my head around that justification -- it's the cheating part -- the behind my back part... the violation of the trust -- that's the thing that's killing me.
MIRANDA: besides... women who stay with men who cheat are women who are afraid to be on their own. and that's not me -- i can handle it. always could.
BRADY: mommy, i want to go home.

CHARLOTTE: thank-you for being you. 
CARRIE: charlotte made love to harry five times that week.
SAMANTHA: it's a little quick to move out, don't you think?
SMITH: her reaction is her reaction. thanks anaka.
SAMANTHA: he had once. not even an affair.
SMITH: maybe it's not the sex. maybe, it's the cheating. for me... that would be the thing. that it happened behind my back.
SAMANTHA: that's what she said.
SMITH: look. i know we're not married but - - if you were going to have with someone else...
SAMANTHA: are you waiting for me to get out my datebook?

SMITH: but... seriously, i'd rather know first. 
SAMANTHA: you want me to tell you if i'm going to have sex? fine. i'm about to have sex.
SMITH: thanks anaka.

MIRANDA: i don't know if steve's mentioned anything to you yet -- about us. has he? 
MIRANDA: well -- we've had some marriage problems -- it's not necessary to go into the details but -- i just wanted you to know that we won't be coming to see you together anymore. i'll be here monday, wednesday and sunday -- the other days will be steve.
MARY: who's steve?
CARRIE: miranda was starting to see the upside of alzheimer's.

CARRIE: wedding crunch time. we need to really get serious here. 
BIG: not now -- i just got an email from the the contractor -- they pushed our move-in date again -- and i have to --
CARRIE: nope. wedding before contractor. unless you're planning to invite him -- which would make the guest list two hundred and one.
BIG: two hundred? carrie -- it's gone up again?
CARRIE: blame the new york post and vogue. two publications that have never before been uttered in the same sentence.
BIG: you said: seventy-five people in a partitioned-off room.
CARRIE: it's the dress. how can i explain this? it's like poker -- the dress upped the ante.
BIG: change the dress.
CARRIE: no, no, no -- you haven't seen this dress. this dress may be the whole reason to get married. well, you and the dress.
CARRIE: how are you coming with your vows? just a reminder -- you are going to be saying these in front of a lot of people, so the pressure is on.

BIG: up, up. i have to finish this. up. 
CARRIE: hey...
BIG: i don't have time for this.
CARRIE: this is our wedding and you're not taking it seriously.
BIG: no, i'm not -- it's a circus! two hundred people -- page six -- this is my third marriage -- how do you think it makes me look?
CARRIE: i didn't know that was even an issue. why didn't you say anything sooner?
BIG: you wanted all this.
CARRIE: but -- don't you want --
BIG: i want you, carrie. that's what i want. i would have just gone down to city hall.

BIG: well, no. i wasn't suggesting -- i was just saying. 
BIG: see. that is the face i've been trying to avoid. come here.
CARRIE: you're a great man friend.

SAMANTHA: now, i know it's tradition at the rehearsal dinner for the maid of honor to reveal embarrassing things about the bride. but in our group -- she looks at carrie, charlotte and miranda 
SAMANTHA: ... we never kiss and tell.
SAMANTHA: so, i'd like to make a toast to the groom.
KARL: there's a word he's heard before!

CARRIE: who is that again? 
BIG: karl... a partner at the firm.
CARRIE: karl's kind of a jerk.
KARL: you know what they say -- three times a charm!
SAMANTHA: hey "dick wad"... i'm speaking.
CARRIE: whooo!
SAMANTHA: now. there were times when we had our doubt about this gorgeous man. but after careful observation over the last hundred years, my doubts are over. so... here's to the groom. a man who finally got "carrie-d" away.
KARL: here's hopin', john!
CARRIE: jackass.

SAMANTHA: well, you're quite a guy. they chuckle, then -- samantha's smile fades. 
SAMANTHA: steve.
STEVE: i don't want to bother you all --
BIG: you're not bothering us.
STEVE: but --- i need to talk to miranda. samantha, could you -- ask her to come out. i don't want to go in. it's a party and all.

MIRANDA: hi. i haven't talked to you all night. 
SAMANTHA: steve's here.

STEVE: you didn't leave me any choice. you won't return my calls -- you only talk to me in front of the baby when you know i can't say anything. 
MIRANDA: what could you possibly have to say that could make it better?
STEVE: miranda, please... it was just that one time. please -- i love you --
MIRANDA: you broke us! you broke us. what we had is broken!
MIRANDA: i changed who i was for you.

BIG: hey. are you alright? 
MIRANDA: no, i'm not alright. you two are crazy to get married. marriage ruins everything.

CARRIE: well, the all-gal sleepover is about to commence. you gonna miss me? 
BIG: don't go. spend the night with me.
CARRIE: oh... one night won't kill you. and tomorrow you get to have me for the rest of your life.
CARRIE: is everything okay?
BIG: i'm just tired -- i guess.
CARRIE: go home and sleep. now, give me a kiss good night. make it good -- it's the last single girl kiss.

CARRIE: there we sat... like a scene out of louisa may alcott's: "not-so little women." 
CHARLOTTE: i always knew she would marry big.

SAMANTHA/MIRANDA: you did not! 
CHARLOTTE: yes i did! after every break-up i secretly thought: nope. they belong together.
SAMANTHA: you thought that after the second break-up?
CHARLOTTE: yep.
MIRANDA: after the fifteenth?
CARRIE: ha ha -- hilarious -- we broke up a lot.
SAMANTHA: yes, but... after the break-ups -- comes the hot make-up sex.
CARRIE: you want to answer? go ahead, sweetie... open it up...
CARRIE: say something.
LILY: sex.
CARRIE: sweetie, that was your first bootie call.
SAMANTHA: are you sure she's not my child?

BIG: it's me. 
CARRIE: oh my -- did you just hear lily?
BIG: hey -- i need to talk.
BIG: i'm sitting here trying to write these vows and... is this something we really want to do?
CARRIE: it's big. i'm gonna take it in the--
CHARLOTTE: get some sleep, groomie!

CARRIE: what's the matter? 
BIG: it's just -- everything is great as it is. i don't want to screw it up.

CARRIE: you won't. 
BIG: i screwed it up twice before.
CARRIE: here's the thing. this is me that you're marrying tomorrow. me.
BIG: yeah.
CARRIE: and i'm marrying you. it's me and you. and you want to know the good news there?
BIG: yeah.
CARRIE: we've already both done everything we can to screw it up.
CARRIE: is that a smile i'm hearing?
BIG: yeah.
CARRIE: now, it sounds to me like you've got a bit of writer's block on the vow front.
BIG: yeah.
CARRIE: and i find - you know - as a professional writer- it's best to just, you know, stop thinking about it so much -- and go to bed. and in the morning...
BIG: you know what to do?

CARRIE: exactly. and if not -- just write this: "i will love you." simple and to-the-point. and i swear i won't even try to take credit for it. 
CARRIE: you're going to bed now, right?
BIG: okay. good night.
CARRIE: i'll see you tomorrow. hey. me and you.

CARRIE: there you are! almost lost you under all that. got your purse? 
ANTHONY: now there's a bride! flowers!

CARRIE: whose got a mirror? 
CHARLOTTE: behind you.
CARRIE: stanford, you're on my dress.
ANTHONY: get off the dress!
MIRANDA: is that a rip?
CARRIE/ANTHONY: where?!
ANTHONY: what?

BIG: can you put carrie on, please? 
ANTHONY: not now... dress emergency.
ANTHONY: damage? what's the damage?
SAMANTHA: there's so much fabric i can't see.
ANTHONY: can't see anything behind this friggin' table. go, go -- everyone out into the hall.

ANTHONY: you're a queen -- you should know how to step around a gown. 
STANFORD: don't call me a queen.
ANTHONY: go -- out in the hall, your highness.

CARRIE: it's carrie... leave me a message. 
BIG: why aren't you calling me back? i really need to talk to you. call me back as soon as you get this.

STANFORD: looks like someone had breakfast at tiffany. 
BITSY: sweetheart, look at the size... it's breakfast, lunch and dinner at tiffany.

BITSY: gifts? 
ANTHONY: we have a problem.
STANFORD: i know, but for carrie's sake i've decided to ignore your attitude.
ANTHONY: no, a real problem. they're not here.
STANFORD: they're probably stuck in traffic.
ANTHONY: both of them?

CARRIE: this is carrie, leave a message. 
BIG: i'm out front -- waiting. i can't go in without you.
BIG: baby, this whole bride and groom thing has really thrown me. i need to know that it's still us. just like you said. me and you.
BIG: turn around baby, let me see you.

SAMANTHA: ready. we're ready. 
STANFORD: he's not here yet.
SAMANTHA: who's not?
ANTHONY: the groom.
CARRIE: what's happening?
SAMANTHA: big's not here.
CHARLOTTE: but we're twenty-five minutes late.
CARRIE: did anyone call him? give me a phone. someone give me a phone.
CARRIE: i don't know how to work this.
CARRIE: are you okay?

CARRIE: i don't know where my phone is! what is going on? where are you? 
BIG: i was out front --but i just left.
CARRIE: oh my --
CARRIE: he's not coming. oh my
SAMANTHA: what do you mean he's not coming?
CARRIE: get me out of here. -- get me out of here!
SAMANTHA: go, go. you take her. i'll stay here and deal with this --
BRADY: where you going, mommy?!

BIG: what the am i doing? what the am i doing? turn around and go back. 
RAOUL: it's a one way street. i have to go around the block.
BIG: by the time we go around the block she'll be gone. no one's behind us - - turn around!

RAOUL: i think this is them. 
BIG: pull over. pull over.
BIG: carrie!

BIG: i freaked out for a minute -- but -- i'm ready now -- 
BIG: carrie!
CARRIE: i knew you would do this -- i knew it!
BIG: i'm sorry -- i just --
CARRIE: you left! i am humiliated!
BIG: carrie, wait --
CHARLOTTE: no!

CARRIE: i thought i would still be in extreme pain but i'm feeling nothing. 
CARRIE: i'd like a little more nothing.
CARRIE: i had gone from little women to little drunk women.
CARRIE: yes, i'm still jilted.
SAMANTHA: what the got into him? he was perfectly fine at the dinner.
CARRIE: i knew it when he called last night. i could tell.
SAMANTHA: why didn't you say anything?
CARRIE: didn't want to believe it. didn't even want to say it out loud. and now i have nowhere to love -- i meant live. i have nowhere to live.
CHARLOTTE: you'll stay here.
CARRIE: forever.

CHARLOTTE: maybe you should eat something. 
CHARLOTTE: anyone hungry?
CARRIE: well, if you change your minds, i know where we can get one hundred beef, seventy-five fish and twenty- five vegetarian meals.
CARRIE: and my clothes. all my clothes. i can never go over there again. how am i going to get my clothes?
SAMANTHA: oh, honey -- i can hire people to do all that. anything you need.
CARRIE: a hit man? i have nothing to wear but a wedding gown.
CHARLOTTE: you have your honeymoon stuff here.
CARRIE: there's the silver lining. a honeymoon to a romantic mexican resort that's pre-paid on my credit card because i wanted to surprise the man who jilted me.
SAMANTHA: i can get you out of that. worse comes to worse -- i'll say there was a death or something.
CARRIE: wasn't there?

MIRANDA: i did something really bad -- i think. 
MIRANDA: i said something to big. at the rehearsal dinner.
CHARLOTTE: what do you mean?
MIRANDA: it was right after steve showed up. i was upset... big came up to me -- and i said something like: you're crazy to get married. it just came out.
MIRANDA: do you think it was totally the reason?
CHARLOTTE: no, no, no. big has been weird about marriage for years.
MIRANDA: i keep thinking i should tell carrie.
CHARLOTTE: no, no. this is a really bad time to even mention it - no, no, no. find another time. later.
SAMANTHA: well, turns out, i couldn't get her out of the honeymoon -- but i got us in.

MIRANDA: what? 
SAMANTHA: i just booked us three seats on the flight. mexico here we come.
MIRANDA: i can't go to mexico. i have a job.

PAULO: welcome to mexico. 
SAMANTHA: buenos dias.
PAULO: i'm sorry. i am confused. i am waiting for a mr. and mrs. preston.
SAMANTHA: honey, you'll be waiting for a long time.

SAMANTHA: this... will kill her. where is she? 
CHARLOTTE: in the powder room.

MIRANDA: oh my 
MIRANDA: no more honeymoon stuff. this is very important. have i made myself clear?

MIRANDA: magda -- i'll talk to you tomorrow 
SAMANTHA: well, it's a gorgeous sunset.
CARRIE: close the shutters.
CARRIE: all of them.

MIRANDA: morning. 
CARRIE: did i dream it?

SAMANTHA: honey, you have to eat a little breakfast. 
CARRIE: i'm tired.
SAMANTHA: eat something and you can go back to sleep.

SAMANTHA: with all this gorgeous fresh food you're just going to eat that pudding the entire trip? 
CHARLOTTE: it's the only thing in the pantry that's totally safe. see. made in poughkeepsie. i don't want to chance it.
MIRANDA: it's a five-star resort.
CHARLOTTE: it's mexico.

CHARLOTTE: carrie! 
CARRIE: is there coffee?

MIRANDA: the sun feels nice. 
SAMANTHA: honey. wax much?
MIRANDA: -- what? i didn't know i was going to be in a swimsuit.
CHARLOTTE: what are you talking about?
MIRANDA: i forgot to get a wax.
SAMANTHA: since when -- 1998?
MIRANDA: i've had other things on my mind.
SAMANTHA: i could be on death row and not have that situation.

MIRANDA: well, when you're married, samantha -- you have a different set of priorities. 
SAMANTHA: honey don't blame marriage -- this one's married -- and she's not growing a national forest. how do you even cross your legs? let me make you a spa appointment -- any thicker and you won't be able to find it.
MIRANDA: so what -- it's my fault?! i let the go out of our marriage! i deserve what i got. thanks for understanding.
SAMANTHA: honey, i'm sorry. that's not what --
MIRANDA: i'm fine!
CARRIE: let's go down to the hotel for dinner on the beach tonight.
CHARLOTTE: really?
CARRIE: yeah. i've got to do something to pull me out of my mexicoma.
SAMANTHA: oh, honey... you made a little joke. good for you.

MIRANDA: don't look to your -- 
CARRIE: too late.
MAITRE' D: buenos notches. my name is felix, i`ll be your server.
SAMANTHA: felix -- we'll start with quatro margaritas.
CHARLOTTE: no, i'm not drinking. just bottled water.
CARRIE: i'll drink hers.
FELIX: may i have your room numbers?
CARRIE: we're staying in one of the private houses. number three.
MAITRE' D: very good, mrs. preston.
CARRIE: that was like taking a bullet.

MIRANDA: charlotte had pudding in her prada. 
CARRIE: will i ever laugh again? i'm serious.
MIRANDA: yes.
CARRIE: when?
MIRANDA: when something is really, really funny.
CARRIE: thank for that mariachi band or i'd be able to hear my own thoughts.
SAMANTHA: fabulous -- and keep them coming.

SAMANTHA: well, as long as we're going down this road. 
SAMANTHA: i can't believe my life revolves around a man. on what planet did i allow that to happen?
CHARLOTTE: you love him.
SAMANTHA: does that mean saying his name fifty times more a day than i say my own? does it mean worrying about him and his needs before me and mine? is it all about the other person? is that love?
MIRANDA: no, that's marriage.
CARRIE: so, you're saying marriage is a bad thing? good to know right about now.
SAMANTHA: even this ring. i wanted to buy this for myself. that meant something to me. to be able to do that. then, he buys it for me.
CHARLOTTE: because he knew how much you loved it.
SAMANTHA: yes. but now, every time i look down at it... i see him. not me.
CHARLOTTE: you could look at it and see a man who loves you and wants you to be happy.
SAMANTHA: no, you could look at it and see that. i'm samantha.

74C.: the waiter walks over -- 
SAMANTHA: we'll take another round.
CHARLOTTE: another?
SAMANTHA: relax -- we're on vacation.
CARRIE: technically -- we're on my honeymoon.
MIRANDA: no-- i think we're on their honeymoon.
MIRANDA: it's all so hot -- three days in.

CARRIE: he couldn't get out of the car. after everything he'd already put me through -- he couldn't make the effort and get out of the car? i made the effort -- i put a bird on my head. 
MIRANDA: was that what that was?
CARRIE: yes.
MIRANDA: i thought it was just feathers.
CARRIE: no. it was a bird.
CHARLOTTE: it was beautiful.

CARRIE: he's a bad guy. always was. bad guys do bad things. 
MIRANDA: and good guys do bad things. the good guys screw you and the bad guys screw you.
SAMANTHA: and the rest of them don't know how to screw you. trust me-- i've done the leg work.
MIRANDA: and that was all steve had -- didn't have money -- didn't have a career. he was the good guy bartender with a big
SAMANTHA: how big?
CHARLOTTE: i don't want to know this.
SAMANTHA: eat your pudding.
MIRANDA: nine. like -- nine and change.
CARRIE: that's nice. kinda balances off the one ball.
SAMANTHA: you can't forgive a man with a over nine inches? well, honey, if you can't -- some other woman will.
FELIX: ladies -- the bar is closing.
CHARLOTTE: thank

CARRIE: mrs. preston will take the check. 
SAMANTHA: and a bottle of tequila.

CARRIE: "mail box full." 
SAMANTHA: no time like the present.
CARRIE: not ready to face it all yet.

CHARLOTTE: i'm going for a run and then to the gym for pilates. anyone want to -- 
MIRANDA: good news. just got an e mail from your buyer's attorney -- they have agreed to sell you back your old apartment at that escalated price. and "are willing to vacate by the time you return -- pending an additional financial offer."
CARRIE: well, apparently you can go home again -- but it'll cost you.
SAMANTHA: now -- lets work on getting your things there.
CARRIE: you two could rule the world.
CARRIE: after her workout charlotte couldn't help but think about how truly blessed she was. this week had made her feel more grateful than ever for her happy marriage.
CARRIE: and while picturing her loved ones at home in new york, she forgot where she was...
CARRIE: and opened her mouth.

CARRIE: sweetie -- what's -- 
SAMANTHA: that's locked -- use the other--
CARRIE: and just like that, charlotte pookeepsed in her pants.
MIRANDA: did you --
CHARLOTTE: shut up, shut up, shut up.

PARTY GIRL: i love your books. you're shit's brilliant. 
CARRIE: um, cathy... you seem drunk.
PARTY GIRL: little bit. never got to bed last night. but i type like a motherfucker.

CARRIE: so, you're from st. louis? 
LOUISE: that's right. louise from st.

81.: carrie smiles, looks down at her resume. 
CARRIE: have you ever been a personal assistant?
LOUISE: no, but i'm the oldest of six kids, so i can pretty much handle anything you got.
CARRIE: six kids? what was that like?
LOUISE: crowded. i had to move to new york just to get some room. and where'd i wind up? a one bedroom apartment with three roommates.
CARRIE: aside from the space issue... why'd you move to new york?
LOUISE: to fall in love.
LOUISE: what? that's corny, right?
CARRIE: no, it's just -- so -- honest. i don't think i've ever heard anyone say that in a long time.
CARRIE: well... louise from st. louis... i have just one more question. how does an unemployed girl with three roommates afford the patchwork denim bowley louis vuitton bag?
LOUISE: it's rented. "bag, borrow or steal." it's like netflix for purses.

CARRIE: no! how can i not know about this? 
LOUISE: girl, stick with me, i'll hook you up.

LOUISE: carrie bradshaw... this is louise. anne from the new york observer... 
LOUISE: i'll let her know you called.

MIRANDA: how hard could it be to find something just on the other side of the brooklyn bridge? 
MIRANDA: on second thought -- forget it. i could do a better job myself.

MIRANDA: according to new york magazine, this is the new up-and-coming neighborhood. 
MIRANDA: see! wherever he's going is where we need to be.
MAGDA: i've been here before -- this was all ukrainian area.
MIRANDA: coming or going?

MIRANDA: hi. i'm interested in the apartment. 
NYU KID: get in line.
MIRANDA: i understand but -- who would i talk to about it?
NYU KID: the super.
MIRANDA: lovro... -- and i have no idea. ku...
MAGDA: kljuic. lovro klujcik. i know him.

MIRANDA: no way. 
MAGDA: we were couple -- long time ago.
MIRANDA: no way -- you dated?
MAGDA: haven't seen him since his wife died.
MIRANDA: he's single?

LOVRO: no, no... i told you on phone... the apartment is -- 
LOVRO: magda? is this you?
CARRIE: as much as miranda wanted to pat herself on the back for finding her new apartment in just one afternoon... in the end, she knew --

85A.: miranda watches, thrilled as they converse. 
CARRIE: it was a lovro connection.

SAMANTHA: that was really hot. 
SMITH: hmmm. you were kind of distant.

SAMANTHA: distant? you're still in me. 
SMITH: you want to talk about it?
SAMANTHA: when have i ever wanted to talk about it?
SMITH: okay. i'll talk about it. your best friends get screwed over by their guys -- how can you not get distant?
SAMANTHA: it's more than that -- lately, i haven't been feeling a connection to --
SMITH: what? me?
SAMANTHA: no -- to -- it -- here. i have no real connection to our life here.
SMITH: what life here? seriously -- all i do is work -- and you run off to new york every chance you get.
SAMANTHA: not every chance i get. only for the a-list things. and my managing you -- it's all too much. i'm starting to resent it. for the last two years it's been all about you.
SMITH: well, for the first three years it was all about you.
SAMANTHA: i know. that was so much more fun.

SAMANTHA: so, i won't be coming to new york for a while. we're going to spend some time reconnecting on the weekends... do the "la couple thing." 
CARRIE: yeah, hi, can you put on samantha?
SAMANTHA: really. at first i was all: "you can't tell me what i can do" -- but then, i had to admit he had a point.
CARRIE: you people and your relationships.
OPERATOR: please deposit another eighty-five cents.
SAMANTHA: honey, a pay phone? where's your cell?
CARRIE: at the bottom of the ocean in mexico.
SAMANTHA: want me to hook you up with a new one?
CARRIE: no, not yet. no phone -- no calls, no calls-- no questions, no questions-- no explaining no wedding.
CARRIE: plus, it's an excuse to break out the gloves.

LOUISE: carrie bradshaw's web page is a mess. 
CARRIE: -- interesting -- so is carrie bradshaw.
CARRIE: come on -- when are we going to get to the really important things like unpacking my closet?
LOUISE: one thing at a time. are you ever going to answer these emails?
CARRIE: yes.
LOUISE: when?
CARRIE: now?
LOUISE: okay -- i'll read -- you tell me what to do. vitaminsforless.
CARRIE: so right.
LOUISE: who's john@jjpny.com.?
LOUISE: oh, -- that's him, right?

CARRIE: delete. 
CARRIE: and -- isn't there some cyberspace place that you can send those so that i never have to see an email from him ever again? do that please.
LOUISE: you sure you want to end all communication with him?

CARRIE: "and cinderella and prince charming lived happily ever after." this is a fairy tall sweetheart. things don't always happen like this in real life -- you should know that now. 
LILY: again!
CARRIE: and another one bites the dust.

LILY: mommie home! 
CHARLOTTE: thanks for watching her while i went to the doctor.
CARRIE: sure. everything okay?
CHARLOTTE: i'm pregnant.
CARRIE: how?
CHARLOTTE: my doctor said sometimes when women stop trying -- it can happen. she knows other couples that adopt and then get pregnant.
CARRIE: sweetie.
CHARLOTTE: carrie -- i'm pregnant!
CARRIE: i guess, in certain houses, fairy tales do come true.

MIRANDA: all the parents at brady's school dress up -- it's fun! fun thought up by a group of non-working mothers with nothing else to do all day. 
MIRANDA: witch and -- "sexy kitten". that's it? the only two choices for women.
CARRIE: you said a mouthful there, sister.
MIRANDA: maybe i should just wear this and a business suit and go as myself.
CARRIE: speaking of monsters -- i got an email from big.
CARRIE: "i don't know what to say." ah... then don't send an email.
MIRANDA: what were you expecting?
CHILD: boo!
CARRIE: gonna take a little more than that to scare me after what i have been through.

CARRIE: and in the subject box: two words: i'm sorry. 
MIRANDA: steve is all about "i'm sorry." i'm sorry emails -- i'm sorry voice mails -- i'm sorry flowers -- i'm sorry cards. how about: don't do anything to be: " i'm sorry" for.
CARRIE: maybe he's sorry.
MIRANDA: maybe big is too.
CARRIE: point taken. i still can't believe this happened to me. i know it happened, but i can't believe it happened. i lay awake at night going over every detail of the last week in my head.
MIRANDA: carrie -- there's a detail i've been meaning to tell you about --
CARRIE: and then i saw it...the only thing scary enough to scare me after the experience i'd been through.

CARRIE: wait -- what's that say? in the box at the end? 
MIRANDA: "editor's note: the wedding of carrie bradshaw and john james preston was cancelled as this issue went to press. carrie bradshaw is...
CARRIE: is what?
CARRIE: "carrie bradshaw is still single and living in manhattan."

CHARLOTTE: i saw it. the pictures are gorgeous. 
CARRIE: yes -- i'm a beautiful bride. come in.

CHARLOTTE: look, the people who don't know -- will only see the beautiful pictures. the people who do know will only see what an he is. mommy said a bad word. 
CARRIE: hi, honey.
CARRIE: for me?

CARRIE: and what are you going to be for halloween? 
LILY: cinderella.
CHARLOTTE: or -- we also brought mulan.
CHARLOTTE: would you like to go trick or treating with us?
LILY: yea!
CHARLOTTE: just in our building -- if you feel up to it.
LILY: yea!
CARRIE: yea!

HARRY: no costume? 
CARRIE: look closer. i'm the scariest thing in new york. jilted at forty-one. boo.

CARRIE: you know you have to give me some of your loot, right? 
CHARLOTTE/HARRY/LILY: trick or treat!
WOMAN: oh, carrie, i saw vogue -- i'm so sorry.

CARRIE: louise! 
LOUISE: oh my lord. i did not even recognize you.
CARRIE: that's the point. my head is the witness protection program.

LOUISE: i'm really feeling that look on you. 
CARRIE: and i am feeling that balenciaga on you.
LOUISE: mine till tuesday.
LOUISE: here -- time to re-join the world.
CARRIE: already?
LOUISE: your new number... area code: 347 --
CARRIE: hold, hold, hold. 347? no, no. i'm a 917 gal. always have been.
LOUISE: no longer available. now, you're

CARRIE: great. now even i don't recognize me. 
SAMANTHA: samantha jones.
CARRIE: carrie bradshaw --

CARRIE: -- or i used to be. 
SAMANTHA: talk to me.
CARRIE: i'm a 347 area code. how tacky is that?
SAMANTHA: 347 is the new new york.
CARRIE: i want the old new york with the old 917 and my old will to live.
SAMANTHA: old new york, new new york -- honey -- at least it's new york.
SAMANTHA: another hard thing about being in l.a? my "sex on a stick" next door neighbor. i can't stop looking at him.
CARRIE: looking?
SAMANTHA: just looking. after i saw steve's face at the rehearsal dinner, i could never ---
SAMANTHA: but you should see this guy. every night with a different partner. he's like -- --me. five years ago.
CARRIE: yes. when i was a 212.

CARRIE: it certainly wasn't the cutest dog in the pen - but their was something about it -- 
RESCUE WOMAN: she needs a good a home. interested?
CARRIE: and just as samantha convinced herself that the dog wasn't for her.
RESCUE WOMAN: she's been fixed, but she hasn't lost the urge.

SAMANTHA: and she needs a little eye work. anything you can do about these stains? 
SAMANTHA: honey, i don't mince words.

LOUISE: do you want me to get rid of it? 
CARRIE: no, it's too beautiful. i'll just bury it deep in the back -- like i did my feelings.
LOUISE: do you miss him?
CARRIE: every day. you know, it's weird -- i haven't cried very much at all. maybe you're only allotted a certain amount of tears per man -- and i used mine up.
LOUISE: yeah. i know how you feel `cause, my college boyfriend broke up with me last year. and i miss him all the time.
CARRIE: suddenly, it dawned on me -- there were two broken hearts in my-walk in.
CARRIE: louise -- we need a cocktail. grab your rental.

LOUISE: and it threw me so hard `cause, you know, i thought will -- that's his name... was the love of my life. 
CARRIE: what happened?
LOUISE: he said he loved me and all -- but didn't think i was "the one".
LOUISE: and that hurt. but -- you know -- whatever. i'm not going to give up on love.
CARRIE: good.
LOUISE: love is the thing, you know.
LOUISE: see that. i'm bringing it to me all day long.
CARRIE: oh, i remember that smile. who's the guy?
LOUISE: someone i just met. he wants me to meet him for a drink.
CARRIE: at 11:30? that's a bootie call.
LOUISE: no, it's not like that... he just got off work -- he's a waiter.
CARRIE: louise, i may not get texts and i may not send texts -- but trust me: the sub-text of that text: bootie.

101A.: louise nods, then starts texting him. 
LOUISE: but it's not a bootie call if he meets me.... right?
CARRIE: all right, then. you kids enjoy. that's what your twenties are for. your thirties are to learn the lessons.
CARRIE: and your forties are to pay for drinks.

HARRY: you going for your run? 
CHARLOTTE: um... no.
HARRY: you didn't go yesterday either.
CHARLOTTE: i know.

HARRY: why is that? 
CHARLOTTE: i don't feel like running!
HARRY: okay. welcome to the house of hormones.
CARRIE: it's all about the desk. if i find the desk, the writing will come. and it better `cause i'm using my new book advance to pay the fancy decorator.
CHARLOTTE: i think it's so great that you are re-doing your entire apartment.
CARRIE: out with the old -- -- in with the overpriced. charlotte smiles. carrie links arms with her.
CARRIE: hey, harry called me and mentioned you're not running.
CHARLOTTE: why'd he do that?
CARRIE: `cause he loves you... and he's concerned.
CHARLOTTE: there is nothing to be concerned about.
CARRIE: did the doctor say it wasn't safe or something?

CHARLOTTE: no, she said because i'm already a runner -- it's fine. 
CARRIE: so, why are you not --
CHARLOTTE: i'm afraid something bad will happen. it's a miracle that i'm even pregnant.
CARRIE: but if the doctor said --
CHARLOTTE: it's not rational, carrie... it's irrational. i know that.
CARRIE: okay.
CHARLOTTE: i've got everything i ever wanted. i'm so happy -- i'm terrified. no one gets everything they want. look at you. look at miranda. you're such good people and look what happened to you. of course, something bad is going to happen to me.
CARRIE: sweetie, you your pants this year. maybe you're done.
CARRIE: you run every day -- that's what you do. you can't stop being who you are -- just because you're afraid. right?
CARRIE: now let's get down to business. i've got to have my apartment done in time for that baby shower.

LOUISE: you sure you don't want me to rsvp to some of these holiday parties? 
CARRIE: yep. i'm perfectly happy spending time home alone. and speaking of home -- you're going to miss your plane.
LOUISE: merry christmas. it's just something silly.
CARRIE: oh... louise from st. louis.
LOUISE: you said you never saw it -- so.

105.: carrie gets up and runs to her closet. 
CARRIE: i would have bought you one two weeks ago and hidden it in here.
LOUISE: no! that is not what i think it is.
CARRIE: open it.
LOUISE: oh my lord. oh my --
CARRIE: no more rent girl for you.
LOUISE: look who's home from the big city!
CARRIE: it was the best money i'd ever spent.

BRADY: happy new year. 
MIRANDA: that's right -- but you gotta say it more excited than that -- "happy new year!"
BRADY: happy new year!
MIRANDA: you say that and then... you kiss.
STEVE: you all ready to go, b-boy?
MIRANDA: did you pack the new batman santa brought you?
STEVE: aw man -- gotta have the new batman.
MIRANDA: it's there near the tree.
STEVE: you got plans with the girls?
MIRANDA: we're all kinda staying in tonight.
STEVE: would you like to come and eat with us? we can go somewhere over here on your side.
MIRANDA: no, thank you.
STEVE: miranda -- i never meant to hurt you.

MIRANDA: there he is. batman. 
STEVE: put your hat on. it's snowing out.
STEVE: happy new year.
MIRANDA: happy new year.
BRADY: kiss.
MIRANDA: see you tomorrow.

STANFORD: happy new year -- we're having a fabulous time. the only thing missing is you. come. 
CARRIE: that's sweet but i can't, i'm writing.
STANFORD: oh... okay. you're not really writing are you?
CARRIE: no. you're not really having a fabulous time are you?
STANFORD: no. rescue me. it's very forced festive.
CARRIE: oh yes, that's just what every new year's eve party needs: a visit from the lost bronte sister.
STANFORD: well... better a bronte sister than a hilton sister.
CARRIE: thanks but -- by ten pm i'll be in bed asleep and blissfully unaware of how fabulous this night is supposed to be.

MIRANDA: i thought one of the perks of having a family is you don't have to spend new year's eve alone with chinese food. i'm alone with chinese food. 
CARRIE: i was sleeping.
MIRANDA: oh, -- i'm sorry.
CARRIE: that's okay. where's brady?
MIRANDA: it's steve's night.
CARRIE: right.
MIRANDA: go back to sleep -- don't wake up.
CARRIE: it's okay. are you alright?
MIRANDA: i'm fine -- i was just getting a little choked-up watching the stupid new year's eve stuff on tv alone.
CARRIE: want me to come over?
MIRANDA: i'm all the way downtown --
CARRIE: i can grab a cab --
MIRANDA: on new year's eve? no way. i'm fine... really.

CARRIE: you're not alone. 
TELEVISION ANNOUNCER: 5-4-3-2-1. happy new year!

CARRIE: easy girl. 
SAMANTHA: thanks -- three months driving in l.a. and i forgot how to use my legs.
CARRIE: every year the women of new york leave the past behind and look forward to the future... this is known as fashion week.

CARRIE: this way. i hear the couture calling my name. 
SAMANTHA: see this -- this is what i miss. last night smith and i cuddled in front of the tv with "take out" mexican.
MIRANDA: -- in your four billion dollar beach house.
SAMANTHA: still -- i don't think i'm cut out for the one-on-one relationship thing.

CHARLOTTE: you've been doing it for five years. 
SAMANTHA: no, see -- i've always had girlfriends on the side.
MIRANDA: there's mayor bloomberg.
SAMANTHA: new yorkers are so attractive - - even the mayor is hot.
MIRANDA: i believe that was his last campaign slogan.

SAMANTHA: there we are. 
CHARLOTTE: we're in the front row?!
SAMANTHA: i pulled some strings.
CARRIE: very nice.
SAMANTHA: i should go thank them -- samantha throws her coat on her chair back.
CHARLOTTE: decide where we want to go for lunch -- i'll make the call. it's like old times.
MIRANDA: so, this is how you all spent your saturdays while i was with brady and steve at the brooklyn aquarium.
CARRIE: well... not every saturday.
MIRANDA: just so you know -- we always had front row at the mammal show. steve does the funniest dolphin impression. actually, it's more -- steve as a dolphin --

CHARLOTTE: you really can't forgive him? 
MIRANDA: are you suggesting something?
CHARLOTTE: i like steve. i've always liked steve -- he's apologized a hundred times -- he's not seeing anyone else. what's it going to take?
MIRANDA: and are you also suggesting that she forgive big?
CHARLOTTE: no. i could kill big. sometimes when i'm running -- i imagine what i'd say if i ever saw him again. i have the perfect opening sentence.
CARRIE: ah.... yes.
CHARLOTTE: i curse the day you were born.
CARRIE: impressive. better work up a hand gesture to go with it.
ELAINE: thank you're here. they have me covering this mercedes-benz fashion week and i'm desperate for a carrie bradshaw-esque quote.
CARRIE: well, i'll do my best. we'll talk after?
ELAINE: great. and -- ooh -- my back --

ELAINE: -- can i just say that i'm so sorry about what happened with your wedding. 
ELAINE: i don't know how you survived it. i, personally, was so devastated i took myself off jdate -- but you survived and you're here and you look amazing and i just think that's so great. everyone in my row does -- we can't stop talking about it. okay -- meet you in the lobby after.
CARRIE: i've gotta go.
MIRANDA: should i --

CHARLOTTE: carrie, wait. 
CARRIE: this was a mistake -- it's too soon -- i'm not ready. i'll go get a coffee and you guys call me after -- and i'll meet you for lunch.

CHARLOTTE: are you sure? i know how much you were looking forward to this. 
CARRIE: yeah, i really was... until i became the poster child for wounded women everywhere.
CHARLOTTE: you're not.
CARRIE: is this thing going to effect everything i do for the rest of my life?
CHARLOTTE: no -- but if you leave right now -- it will effect the rest of your day.
CHARLOTTE: it's fashion week. we're in the front row.
CARRIE: where everyone can see me.
CHARLOTTE: who cares about them -- you only came for the clothes.
CHARLOTTE: i know it's hard but -- it's like you said: you can't stop being who you are.

SAMANTHA: let's get a cab -- i am starv -- 
ACTIVIST #1: fur is murder!

SAMANTHA: i miss new york. 
CARRIE: and a couple of weeks later -- i met st. louise's st. louis boyfriend, will.
CARRIE: over christmas they realized how much they loved each other. just in time for valentine's day.

SAMANTHA: i'm just calling to make sure you aren't hanging from your shower rod. 
CARRIE: you called an hour too early.
SAMANTHA: so, what's the v-day plan?
CARRIE: miranda and i are going to dinner and then a really violent slasher movie.
SAMANTHA: perfect.
CARRIE: and you?
SAMANTHA: i am making smith sushi. pause for reaction.
CARRIE: wow. do you make sushi?
SAMANTHA: we took a class a while back -- and when he walks in the door at seven- thirty, i am going to surprise him by laying on the dining room table - -- covered with homemade sushi.
CARRIE: boy, you do have time on your hands.

MIRANDA: is it me or is valentine's day this year on steroids? 
CARRIE: i think it was like this last year but we played for the other team.
WAITRESS: good evening. here's our special valentine night menu. all the selections are romantic in theme and designed to be split for two.
CARRIE/MIRANDA: yes.
WAITRESS: a glass or a bot --
CARRIE/MIRANDA: bottle.

WAITRESS: i'll be right back to take you and your girlfriends order. the waitress leaves. miranda looks at carrie. 
MIRANDA: i could do a lot worse.

MIRANDA: why would you look at the vogue today of all days? 
CARRIE: `cause -- i'm an emotional cutter. i deserve what i got. running all over new york believing that i'm finally getting my happy ending. "see everyone, love does conquer all. look at me in my one of a kind wedding gown marrying the love of my life."
WAITRESS: would you like another bot --
CARRIE/MIRANDA: yes.
CARRIE: and miranda... in that article -- i did not say "we" once. it was all: "i" want and "i" think.
MIRANDA: it was from your point of view.
CARRIE: my point of view... exactly. the whole wedding was my point of view. i let the wedding get bigger than big. i am the reason he didn't get out of that car.

CARRIE: what do you mean? 
MIRANDA: i was really upset after steve showed up and i bumped into big and -- i said that you two were crazy to get married.
WAITRESS: here we go. your shiraz.
MIRANDA: stop -- it's fine -- thanks.
MIRANDA: i'm sorry, i was upset-- steve had--
CARRIE: i have been going over this and over this in my mind for five months -- and -- for five months you kept a secret like that?
MIRANDA: i tried to tell you once but the vogue article came out --
CARRIE: once? you tried to tell me once? you should have tried to tell me every single day!
MIRANDA: i know, i was looking for the right time.
CARRIE: there is no right time to tell me you ruined my marriage!

MIRANDA: it just happened -- i wasn't thinking. 
MIRANDA: carrie, please -- don't go -- i --
CARRIE: and i think what hurts the most is that you kept a secret from me. i have never ever kept a secret from you. ever!
CARRIE: no, i'm lying. for the last five months i've been thinking that it's a huge mistake that you left steve. there. how does it feel?
CARRIE: excuse me!

SMITH: i'm home! 
SMITH: man, that was a long day -- the crew went into double overtime.
SAMANTHA: you are three hours late.
SMITH: bummer. i know. did you eat?
SAMANTHA: yes, i ate. i ate the sushi that i hand made for you. the sushi that i planned to lay all over my naked body as a valentines surprise for you.
SMITH: why are you so upset? i called.
SAMANTHA: i slaved away in a kitchen all day to make this meal for you.

SMITH: you made some sushi -- it's not a big deal! 
SAMANTHA: not a big deal?
SAMANTHA: you see this -- this took me five hours!
SAMANTHA: i am not the type of woman who sits home all day waiting for a man! you love california so much -- enjoy your hand-made california roll!

MIRANDA: it's me. pick up. are you there? 
CARRIE: three days of "i'm sorry" calls and e-mails and flowers -- and i still wasn't ready. it was the longest we'd even gone without speaking.

MIRANDA: carrie. 
MIRANDA: hi. i need to talk to you.
CARRIE: how long have you been waiting here? miranda looks to the meter, then back to her.
MIRANDA: seventeen dollars long. please get in. it just turned to eighteen.

121.: this is weird not talking. 
CARRIE: i'm upset.
MIRANDA: carrie, i understand -- but it just happened -- i never meant to hurt you. you have to forgive me.
CARRIE: you know --

MIRANDA: what? 
CARRIE: no.
MIRANDA: please. what were you going to say?
CARRIE: you badger me to forgive you in three days -- and you won't even consider forgiving steve for something he did six months ago.
MIRANDA: it's not the same thing.
CARRIE: it's forgiveness.
CARRIE: and -- i know you're not the reason my marriage fell apart. i was just - desperate to have someone else to blame.

THERAPIST: steve - you're very quiet today. 
STEVE: miranda, i know i made it hard for you to trust me. but -- you made it hard for me to trust you.
MIRANDA: me?!

STEVE: the way you treated me and cut me out of your life like that? i mean, yeah -- i broke a vow. but what about the other vows? like promising to love someone for better or for worse? what about that? 
STEVE: how do i know she won't punish me for the rest of my life?
THERAPIST: you don't. and she doesn't know for sure that you won't have another indiscretion. all you can know... is that you want to move forward and risk that you love for each other won't allow that to happen.
THERAPIST: and that's what we'll discover here.

CARRIE: can you do that? 
MIRANDA: i don't know. i have a lot of thinking to do.
CARRIE: thinking -- or feeling?
MIRANDA: what do you mean?
CARRIE: miranda -- you're a lawyer. you can argue both sides of any case -- but, why we feel what we feel -- isn't logical. it's emotional. sorry, harvard -- i'm afraid you're going to have to make this decision based on your emotions.
MIRANDA: well, then -- i'm screwed. i don't know what i feel.
CARRIE: you will. there will come a moment when you'll know. and if it's: yes - - all that brilliant logic will go out the window... with the past.
MIRANDA: and i thought picking the place to meet was a challenge.
CARRIE: where is it?
MIRANDA: the brooklyn bridge. halfway between both our places.
CARRIE: very logical. and yet poetic.
MIRANDA: poetic -- if we both show up. otherwise -- you're on a bridge -- rejected. not a good plan.

LOUISE: i have two pieces of good news. 
CARRIE: and i have two coffees.
LOUISE: i just got a heads-up from your realtor. the apartment on fifth finally sold.
LOUISE: you have sixty days before the new owner takes possession and you are out of there.
CARRIE: what's the other news?
CARRIE: oh my --
LOUISE: i'm moving back to st. louis -- we are getting married in the fall.

SAMANTHA: where are you, baby? 
SAMANTHA: sorry -- i'm your neighbor and my dog ran up on your dick-- --deck!
DANTE: want to join me?
DANTE: i'm dante. stop by -- anytime.

CARRIE: well, almost never. miranda turns her head back to look at steve. 
MIRANDA: kiss me.

CARRIE: sorry. this is a very exclusive party. 
MIRANDA: we're on the list. miranda hobbes plus one...and a half.

ANTHONY: a woman just put a glass down on your new desk without a coaster. i told her if she did it again i'd break her arm. 
CARRIE: thanks.
MIRANDA: where's samantha? her plane landed two hours ago.
CARRIE: you know her, probably ran to the hotel gym for a quick work-out.
SAMANTHA: there's no place like home.
CARRIE: sweetie!
MIRANDA: there's a rat in your purse.
CARRIE: and that rat better be house trained.
CATER WAITER: can i take your coat?
CHARLOTTE: samantha!

CHARLOTTE: you have a -- dog! 
SAMANTHA: did you ever think you'd see the day -- me with a pooch.

MIRANDA: so, she has a belly. so what? 
CARRIE: no, a belly on anyone else is a "so what?" a belly on samantha is a: "so what the is going on?"
CHARLOTTE: she never mentioned it on the phone?
CARRIE: never. and when has she ever not talked about every detail regarding her body?
CHARLOTTE: should we even bring it up?
MIRANDA: what -- like a fat intervention? "we love you -- have a salad?" no. we should let her bring it up.
SAMANTHA: ladies, we can talk about my gut later-- right now, i'm bored to tears here.

SAMANTHA: i eat -- so i won't cheat. 
MIRANDA: what exactly are you eating?
SAMANTHA: everything except dante's
CARRIE: language, please -- this is a grown- up apartment now.
SAMANTHA: i guess i didn't realize how big i was until i saw it on your faces.
CARRIE: how -- and i say this with love -- how could you not realize it?
SAMANTHA: i've been avoiding mirrors.
CHARLOTTE: i'm proud of you for not cheating.
SAMANTHA: i don't know if there's anything to be proud of. i stuff my face to stop myself from doing something that feels natural to me. carrie reaches over and rubs samantha's back.
CARRIE: why didn't you say something?
SAMANTHA: i guess i didn't want to admit it. and when you're in denial -- you don't dial.
CARRIE: now, listen -- this isn't about the weight. you'd be gorgeous at any size. but are you happy?

SAMANTHA: relationships aren't always about being happy, right? how often do you feel happy in your relationship? 
CARRIE: i'm pretty sure that's to you.
CHARLOTTE: every day.
SAMANTHA: you feel happy ever day?
CHARLOTTE: not all day -- everyday -- but everyday.
MIRANDA: when was the last time you felt happy?
SAMANTHA: six months ago.
SAMANTHA: what am i going to do?
CARRIE: what does your gut tell you?
SAMANTHA: i know but -- smith stayed with me through chemo. if he could stay with me through that, i should be able to stay in this relationship for him.
CARRIE: sweetie... you just compared your relationship to chemo.

CARRIE: there we were...the three mirrors samantha couldn't avoid. 
CARRIE: and samantha?
CARRIE: that pillow cost three hundred dollars.
SMITH: hey -- you're home! i thought you were staying the week.
SAMANTHA: we need to talk.
SMITH: awwww... man. i knew this was coming.
SAMANTHA: yeah. this isn't working. i've done my best. i've given it five years and fifteen pounds.
SMITH: what -- you don't love me any more?
SAMANTHA: yes, i love you - ah, it -- i'm just gonna say the thing you're not supposed to say -- i love you but i love me more. and i've been in a relationship with myself for forty-nine years and that's the one i need to work on.

SAMANTHA: you'll find a wonderful woman who loves being in a relationship. 
SMITH: what will you find?
SAMANTHA: i don't know. but that's a risk i'm willing to take.
SAMANTHA: no. i'm keeping this. every time i look down at it i want to think of you.

STEWARDESS: we're landing in new york. i'm gonna need to take that now. 
CARRIE: as someone returned to my life...
CARRIE: ... someone left.
LOUISE: and i put all the unopened mail from your p.o. box in the manila envelopes on the bottom shelf there.

LOUISE: and please -- please do not make a mess of carriebradshaw.com -- it's my masterpiece. 
CARRIE: what am i gonna do without you?
LOUISE: you'll find some other girl... but she won't have my style.
CARRIE: st. louise, you brought me back to life.
LOUISE: and you gave me louise vuitton.
LOUISE: serious. we need to stop cryin'.
LOUISE: your keys.
CARRIE: wait -- don't forget your "love."
LOUISE: no, i found my love. i'm leaving that with you.
LOUISE: see you at my wedding.
CARRIE: i'll meet you in st. louis.

CARRIE: ... samantha moved in. 
SAMANTHA: hi, i'm your new neighbor.
HOT NEIGHBOR: diego.
SAMANTHA: samantha.

HOSTESS: when are you due? 
CHARLOTTE: next week.
HOSTESS: you look gorgeous.

CHARLOTTE: oh, thank-you. 
WAITRESS: hi, can i --
CHARLOTTE: no, i'm sorry -- i can't stay -- help me -- pull out the table. i can't --

BIG: charlotte. charlotte wait -- 
BIG: you're pregnant -- don't run.
CHARLOTTE: i don't want to see you.
CHARLOTTE: i'm so mad at you. i was always on your side and then you did that to carrie -- no, no -- i'm not going to cry -- i'm not going to waste tears on you -- i curse the day you were born!

CHARLOTTE: i think my water just broke. oh my -- taxi! 
BIG: my car's right there. get in my car.
CHARLOTTE: i don't want to get in your car -- i hate your car. taxi!
BIG: charlotte -- we need to get you to the hospital -- please get in my car. it's right here and ready.

CARRIE: hi. congratulations... a girl! 
HARRY: it's my lot in life to be surrounded by beautiful women.
CARRIE: oh my she's gorgeous.
CHARLOTTE: say hello to rose.
CARRIE: what a beautiful name.

CHARLOTTE: after harry's "bubbie." 
HARRY: now, we got a lily and a rose.
CARRIE: well, i have to say you two are very cool customers -- just making the "baby's here" call without all the "i'm in labor" drama.
HARRY: oh -- there was plenty of drama.
CHARLOTTE: my water broke in front of a restaurant.
CARRIE: very dramatic.
HARRY: wait -- she's not done.
CHARLOTTE: it broke while i was talking to big.
CARRIE: what?
HARRY: see. drama.
CHARLOTTE: i bumped into him and i got so upset i started crying and then - my water broke.
HARRY: he brought her to the hospital.
CHARLOTTE: i think he was hoping to see you.

CARRIE: well -- today is not about him. it's about beautiful baby rose. so -- we know she has charlotte's hair -- what else do we know? 
CARRIE: she's a doll. mazel tov!
HARRY: he asked me to ask you to call him.
HARRY: i know! it's none of my business. but i felt bad for the poor schmuck hanging around the hospital waiting room hoping to see you. i swear every time he heard someone in heels coming down the hall -- his heart stopped.
CARRIE: harry -- it's so much more complicated than you can imagine.
HARRY: i know it is -- and you have every right to never call him -- but i'm just a big pile of love today --and i feel bad for the guy. he said he's been writing you -- but you never responded.
CARRIE: he's never written me.
HARRY: he said he wrote because he didn't have your phone number.

CARRIE: no. he's never written me. ever. 
HARRY: then, why would he say that he had?

CARRIE: two hours, two manila envelopes and countless emails later, i was just about to give up on the big riddle when -- 
CARRIE: i had told louise to put big in a place where i would never have to hear from him again.

CARRIE: hey, louise -- it's me. what's the password to get into your assistant file? call me. 
CARRIE: 
CARRIE: oh my
CARRIE: as soon as i typed in "love" -- there he was. she clicks on the first e-mail. it opens: it's the love letter from beethoven, retyped.
CARRIE: and because big still didn't have the words... he retyped a love letter from beethoven.
CARRIE: and lord byron.
CARRIE: and james joyce.
CARRIE: and voltaire.

CARRIE: there they were. "the love letters of great men - volume one." plus one more... written by john james preston. 
CARRIE: i wanted to call him - but our love... carrie and big: volumes one, two, and three... stopped me.
CARRIE: hello.
LOUISE: i didn't hear my phone.

LOUISE: we are shopping for my wedding gown. 
ANGELA: that one makes you look weird.
LOUISE: momma -- can you please -- this is a work call.
CARRIE: no, it's okay i figured it out.

LOUISE: well, i was going to call you anyway -- today is the final day on the fifth avenue apartment. you have till six before they change the locks. 
CARRIE: i don't need to go over there.
LOUISE: and do you not want those never- worn shoes?
CARRIE: oh -- i completely forgot about --
LOUISE: `cause if you don't -- send them on to me. i'll squeeze my feet into them.
CARRIE: it's already five o'clock.
LOUISE: hello? there are never been worn four hundred dollar shoes!
CARRIE: five twenty-five. bye.

BIG: i was going to get these to you. i didn't want it to be a total loss. 
CARRIE: it wasn't logic -- it was love.

CARRIE: why did we ever decide to get married? 
BIG: i guess we were afraid it meant something if we didn't.
BIG: i'm sorry to have done that to you.

CARRIE: i'm sorry to have done that to you... and you know the funny part? 
BIG: is there a funny part?
CARRIE: we were perfectly happy before we decided to live happily ever after.
BIG: yep. the jokes on us.
CARRIE: good closet.
BIG: thanks.
CARRIE: comfortable. is this what you had in mind when you installed the carpet?
BIG: i'd like to think i was that smooth.
CARRIE: we better get up before the new owner bust in on us.
BIG: and the way we decided to get married -- all business... no romance. that's not the way you propose to someone.
BIG: this is.

BIG: carrie bradshaw -- love of my life - - will you marry me? 
BIG: see, this is why there's a diamond. you need to do something to close the deal.

CARRIE: and in the end... carrie bradshaw married john james preston in a label-less dress. 
JUDGE: by the power vested in me, by the state of new york, i now pronounce you husband and wife. you may kiss the bride.
BIG: ever thine. ever mine. ever ours.

BIG: you okay that it was just us? 
CARRIE: perfect. you and me -- like i said.

BIG: which is why i called them. 
MIRANDA/SAMANTHA: congratulations!
CHARLOTTE: mazel tov!
GUARD: excuse me -- excuse me! you're not allowed to throw rice anymore.
SAMANTHA: honey, get over it -- it's new york!

CHARLOTTE: hmmm. this is delicious. 
MIRANDA: why did we ever stop drinking these?
CARRIE: because everyone else started.

SAMANTHA: well, that is an oldie but goodie. 
CARRIE: and speaking of an oldie but goodie...

CARRIE: wait -- wait -- a toast. 
CARRIE: to samantha... fifty and fabulous!
CARRIE: to us... and the next fifty!
ALL: to the next fifty.
CARRIE: and there, in the same city where they met as girls, four new york women entered the next phase of their lives... dressed head to toe in love.
CARRIE: and that's the one label -- that never goes out of style.

