BEN: stab 3: return to woodsboro. pah. what's next, friday the 13th part 15: 
JASON DOES BROADWAY?: ben's phone rings. he answers it.

BEN: what's up, b.d. with the b.d. 
WOMAN'S VOICE: hardly as large as i'd like it to be.
BEN: christine?
CHRISTINE: no, jennifer love hewitt. of course it's me, silly. and i feel like an standing in this theater lobby all by myself. where are you babe, the movie starts in twenty minutes.
BEN: look, i'm stuck on the freeway. i think there was some big accident. it could be a little while so i don't want you to start freaking if i don't get there at exactly, eight thirty.
CHRISTINE: all i'm saying is i'm gonna be royally p.o.'d if you don't catch my acting debut.
BEN: oh i wouldn't miss it for the world.
CHRISTINE: i did. hon, although i got a total of six minutes screen time, they're the best six minutes of the movie.
BEN: heh heh i bet they are babe. i bet they are. look, my battery's dying . . .

CHRISTINE: alright hon, talk to you when the lights go down. ben smiles. 
BEN: sure thing.

VOICE: hello. 
BEN: who is this?
VOICE: who is this?
BEN: well what number are you trying to reach?
VOICE: i don't know.
BEN: i think you got the wrong number, buddy.
VOICE: do i?
VOICE: wait, wait. don't hang up.
BEN: asshole, can't talk.
VOICE: but your voice sounds so familiar.
BEN: does it now?

BEN: well ya got me. that's me. i'm ben damon. 
VOICE: really? you're such a talented actor.
BEN: thanks.
VOICE: now let's see you act your way out of this one.
BEN: what do you mean?
VOICE: i mean, i'm standing right outside the ladies room door at the plaza theater. your girlfriend christine is in there. she's all alone. everyone's in the auditorium waiting for the film to start. i've got my knife.
VOICE: more of a game really.
BEN: what kind of a game?
VOICE: you seem to be familiar with the stab movies. here's how we play. i ask you a question. you get it right, your girlfriend lives. you answer wrong, she dies.
BEN: i swear to if you lay a finger on her i'll kill you!
VOICE: maybe so, but right now, we play the game. first question, your girlfriend's counting on you, name your girlfriend's character in stab 2?
VOICE: come on. don't you know?

BEN: it's cici! cici's the name of the character she plays in the movie! 
VOICE: very good. now we play round 2.
BEN: what?! but i did everything you said to do!
VOICE: that's right. and you beat round 1. now we're taking the game to a whole new level. meet me beneath the hollywood sign in ten minutes. i'll have your girlfriend. we'll be waiting.
BEN: what?!
VOICE: good bye ben.

VOICE: you're not playing by the rules ben. 
BEN: i swear to if you lay one hand on her!
VOICE: no! you listen to me, if you're not where i want you in fifteen minutes i'll hollow her out. do you understand? in the b.g. we hear christine's horrific screaming.

HIS CELL RINGS.: ben answers the call. 
BEN: yeah.
VOICE: very good. you follow directions well. now for the final part of the game. put down the bat and approach the sign, slowly.
BEN: where are you?
VOICE: closer than you think.
BEN: alright i'm here. what the do you want from me?
VOICE: to see your reaction.
BEN: reaction to what?

GALE: good morning hollywood. and today officially starts the summer movie season. opening the box office this week is jeff bridges and tim robins in arlington street, eugene levy and jason biggs in american pastry, and tori spelling and david schwimmer in stab 2, based off my best selling book the windsor murders. 
GALE: well i see a lot of the audience has dressed to the occasion. today we have director of the upcoming stab 3: return to woodsboro, roman bridger. why don't we give mr. bridger a nice welcome to the set of total entertainment.

ROMAN: good morning gale. pleasure to be here. 
GALE: it's a pleasure to finally meet you, roman.
ROMAN: well it's a honor to be here amongst so many fans of the genre. and i must say that any of you worried that jerry rapp, or tori or david not returning to complete the stab trilogy, have no fear, roman is here. aided with my excellent cast of newcomers i believe we're going to pull off one of the best stabs yet.
GALE: roman, from your enthusiasm it certainly seems that way. honestly though, tell us, what's your favorite scary movie?
ROMAN: honestly, my life.
GALE: your life?
ROMAN: well if you were in my shoes, dealing with those big time sunrise studio producers like i do on a daily basis, you'd watch how quick your life goes from a walt disney picture to a tobe hooper flick.
GALE: would you excuse me for a moment?
ROMAN: sure.

DETECTIVE KINCAID: i'm sorry miss weathers. allow me to introduce myself, mark kincaid, l.a.p.d. are you familiar with the actor ben damon, or the actress christine perkins? 
GALE: well i interviewed damon once for the show. he was a real obnoxious any way, the second one, christine perkins, she had a part in stab 2, didn't she? she was playing cici.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: both of them were found brutally murdered this morning under the hollywood sign. autopsy reports having come back to me yet but the
GALE: so is that why you're here? is that why you're holding me from my show, to tell me about some brutal homicide i'm not even involved in?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i wish that was all miss weathers, but there's more. the killer left a note.
GALE: a note?
GALE: that's sidney prescott's mother.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: there's more.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i've tried to get in touch with sidney prescott, but she's keeping herself very well hidden. you're my one and only hope in finding her. her life may be in grave danger.
GALE: i'd love to help, really i wouldn't mind being sliced at again by a maniacal psychopath, but
DETECTIVE KINCAID: and who would that be?

TOM: hey dew, did you hear? 
DEWEY: no, what?
TOM: somebody iced ben damon and his girlfriend.
DEWEY: that's hollywood tom. one day you're
SARAH: goddamnit i am getting so fed up with these re-writes. it's like every five minutes there's a new script. and you just know this all because of stab 2's script winding up on the internet two months after it wrapped shooting.
TYSON: and still the film is number one at the box office this weekend. beat out american pasty and arlington street.
ANGELINA: i think jeff bridges is getting tired.
TYSON: nah i think it's doing so well because one of it's players got iced. i just hope none of us end up dead.
ANGELINA: oh that's right. those poor poor people. ben damon was such a hottie.
TYSON: and that cici chick wasn't that bad either but i'm really concerned about my safety now.
SARAH: what are you talking about? the murders were a completely isolated incident.
SARAH: would you give that script a rest? it's like a friggen umbilical cord to you.
TYSON: i'm just saying, though. what if there's someone out there stalking actors? huh? then what?
ANGELINA: there's always someone out there stalking actors. look at that woman from the commish.
TYSON: melinda mcgraw?
ANGELINA: no, the other one. the one who played his wife.
SARAH: i know who you're talking about. rebecca something.
ANGELINA: yeah i think. anyway, point is, she had a stalker. sonny bono had a stalker. david letterman had one too. so did heather langenkamp, brooke sheilds, jody foster, --
TYSON: listen miss ingã©nue, your cheering me up to much, give it a break.
TOM: what? what'd i do? relax your crack sweetheart i didn't rip those two up last night. jeez. so what are you doing tonight? totally repulsed, angelina gets up, races off set.
TOM: talk about moody.
TOM: and how about you good looking?
SARAH: eww yeah, finding a guy to have with that doesn't look like you.
TYSON: oh no. i ain't into that

GALE: dã©jr vu-do. 
VOICE: well well, someone dies and gale weathers comes running. what a shock. gale looks up. dewey stands beside her.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: mr. rielly? my name is mark kincaid.
DEWEY: yeah. a real tragedy.
GALE: dewey, personal lives and pasts aside,

DEWEY: i promised sid i'd keep her in seclusion. i promised her nobody would ever find her. if you don't mind detective, i'd like to approach her with this on my own and see what she'd like to do about it. kincaid nods. 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: that's fine mr. rielly, but if anyone else
DEWEY: understood. if you'll excuse me detective. gale.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i'm going to have a little chat with the producers. don't wander off. i may need you.

MILTON: i can assure you that security on the set will be at an all time high. again, the deaths are sheer tragedy. 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: well, i'd hate to see the production shut down. i myself am a big stab fan.
BUDDY: really? have you ever thought about acting?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i am kind of dedicated to my job. although i do enjoy taking acting classes on my weekends. i grew up around these studios anyway. i know my way around. my uncle was a screenwriter for paramount.
MILTON: really, what was his name?
GALE: excuse me detective, i think we have some business to attend to.
MILTON: gale weathers?! what are you doing here? no press on the set! no press, no press on set!
SECURITY GAURD: yes, mr. milton.

DETECTIVE KINCAID: no, mr. milton, miss weathers is with me. 
MILTON: well then, i guess i'll be leaving then.
GALE: oh come on! why the hostility?
MILTON: listen lois lane, i love your show and all but last month i happened to catch your little segment on me and how my wife left me because i'm a addict who enjoys fifteen year old girls. it was a real eye opener my lawyers are still thinking about bringing to your superior's attentions.
GALE: they're the ones who approved it.
GALE: alright kincaid, no where to?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i go to the police station and do my job, and you go back to being gale weathers.
GALE: oh. i thought you wanted me to stick around.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: look, miss weathers, if there's a problem, give me a call. here's my card. i'm always there.
GALE: can i even get a ride home?

SIDNEY: mom! 
AWAKENING IN BED FROM HER NIGHTMARE.: her dog's barking wildly. the window is fine.

SIDNEY: this is laura in monterey reporting in for work. 
OPERATOR: alright laura i'll patch you right in to a call.
SIDNEY: thanks.
WOMAN: hello?
SIDNEY: yes, hi i'm laura, i'm a trained counselor. how can i help you.
WOMAN: laura i think i just killed somebody.
SIDNEY: are you sure?
WOMAN: uh-huh i'm sure. i've killed someone!

WOMAN: no i need to call you. just you. 
SIDNEY: i'm sorry, your voice.
WOMAN: don't you want to know how you can help, sidney? are you listening to me, huh?
SIDNEY: who the is this?
WOMAN: it's mother, sidney, now be a good girl and turn on the news. do it!

REPORTER: the mutilated bodies were discovered late last night by the l.a.p.d, prominent actor ben damon was slated for a role in the upcoming stab 3: return to woodsboro -- 
VOICE: do you think it's over sidney?
SIDNEY: w-what do you want?
VOICE: i want to finish what i started.
SIDNEY: you sick i'm tracing this call as we speak! the police are gonna nail your ass!
VOICE: let them try. you'll never find me. i've already gotten away with murder before.
SIDNEY: no. you didn't kill my mother. billy loomis and stu macher did.
VOICE: heh. so you think sidney. so you think. it's all been building up to this sid. every stab. every scream. every ounce of blood that's been spilled has all been
SIDNEY: the final act? well let's play asshole!
VOICE: no. we play in my court this time.
VOICE: great. a spirited one. i'll be seeing you real soon sidney. real soon.

SARAH: stab 3. oh i've gotta get myself a better agent. 
SARAH: anybody home?
SARAH: doubt that. anyone here?
TYSON: stan! my man does great work.
STAN: thank you. thank you very much.
SARAH: you very much! tyson go to hell! what the are you doing here?
TYSON: roman and everybody else went home for the night. i'm here for a make-up test.
SARAH: make-up. you need it. hey, roman isn't here?
TYSON: no.
SARAH: he called my roommate and told her he had some important things he wanted to go over with me in his office tonight.
STAN: yeah i bet.

SARAH: for the honorary field of directing and cinematography in music videos. how to the point. 
SARAH: oh hello? director's office.
ROMAN: sarah, it's roman, i'm sorry i'm running late, i'm still on the 405, i'm about 10 minutes away.
SARAH: oh it's no problem, i'm just... looking at your music video awards.
ROMAN: all right, since i got you on the phone, let's talk about your character.
SARAH: what character? i'm candy, the chick who gets killed second. i'm only in two scenes!
ROMAN: you're not happy with your part.
SARAH: i'm not happy that i'm 35 playing a 21 year old. i'm not happy that i have to die naked! and i'm not happy that my character is too stupid not to have a gun in the house after her boyfriend's been cut into mcnuggets.
ROMAN: um hmm... umhmm great, so let's run the lines.
SARAH: huh, fine.
ROMAN: page 22, candy's big moment.
SARAH: page 22.. ring ring. hello?
ROMAN: hello.
SARAH: who's this?
ROMAN: who's this?
SARAH: this is candy. hang on, let me get some
ROMAN: why don't we just read the scene? candy, is that like candy cane or candy apple?
SARAH: whatever. come on, who is this? i think you have the wrong number.
ROMAN: but you know my favorite name?
SARAH: i'm hanging up right now.
ROMAN: it's sarah.
SARAH: roman that's not the line.
ROMAN: it is in my script.
SARAH: has there been another rewrite? how the are we supposed to learn our
ROMAN: it's not just a new script, it's a new movie.
SARAH: what? what movie?
ROMAN: my movie.
VOICE: it's called, sarah gets sliced like a pig. still in character, sarah?

DETECTIVE KINCAID: that's stab 3, miss weathers. it looks like we're going to be getting a warrant to speak with miss prescott anyway. 
GALE: sarah darling. i interviewed her too. it's happening again isn't it detective?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: yes well we have a suspect, so don't get that worried.
GALE: who?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i'm not at liberty to tell you that miss weathers. you're no longer working with the l.a.p.d. i don't even know why you're standing in here right now. by all means i should have you thrown out.
GALE: but you won't. you're a good man detective. we think alike. i know you need my help. and i know you know i need your help.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: in my fifteen years as a homicide detective i've never met a single soul as pushy and brazen as you are miss weathers.
GALE: please, call me gale.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: deal, but i'm still detective kincaid,ok?
DETECTIVE WALLACE: mark, bridger's in custody. we traced his phone records. he's the last person to speak to sarah darling before she died. or at least call her home.
GALE: wait a minute, roman's your suspect?
DETECTIVE WALLACE: listen, diane sawyer, this here is classified information. why don't you go investigate the bad meat at the a.p. this is police work, not pulitzer material.
GALE: hey, off.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: no, cool it wallace. she's working with me.
GALE: so, what now?

DETECTIVE KINCAID: mr. bridger, you didn't tell us you spoke with sarah darling before she died. 
ROMAN: that's because i didn't.

ROMAN: wait a minute! i never called her! i never told her to go anywhere! 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: roommate says she knows your voice, mr. bridger.
ROMAN: well, she wasn't speaking with me! look, i did not call sarah darling!
DETECTIVE KINCAID: sarah darling said you did.
ROMAN: someone is trying to ruin my movie. someone wants to kill my movie!
DETECTIVE WALLACE: hey, look at it this way, if anything this'll be something interesting to put on the director's commentary for when the film hits dvd.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: well i doubt they were stabbed to death and i strongly doubt the killer of them left messages on the scene for the police to find. camera pans through a two-way mirror into . . .

DEWEY: they found another note? 
GALE: uh-huh. another news clipping. another one about sid's mom. dewey, whether we like it or not it looks like we're going to have to go back into our past.
DEWEY: you mean our past as in me and sid.
GALE: this has everything to do with me dewey. i was the one who brought the nation's attention to this anyway. i'll be if i'm gonna sit around and pass on the buck again.
DEWEY: do you really mean it this time gale?
GALE: yes. look, let's get something straight
DEWEY: why would the police come to you?
GALE: again, i am the author of the definitive book on the woodsboro murders.! what about you?
DEWEY: what about me?
GALE: you said you'd never leave woodsboro, 'the only place that's real!' but now you're here. not with me. dewey, i took care of you. i waited until you were well. i couldn't stay there, i mean, it's like dog years, one year in woodsboro is like seven everywhere else.
DEWEY: so it's off to london for a week? new york for a month? l.a forever?

DEWEY: what's wrong with just being gale weathers? i liked her! 
GALE: it didn't work dewey. we tried, we're different.
DEWEY: you used to say that was our strength.
GALE: dewey, you're not just here because of that second rate k-mart, straight-to-video version of me, are you?
DEWEY: brace yourself, gale, all of this is actually not about you.
GALE: all of what dewey? you do know something, don't you?
DEWEY: off the record.
GALE: always.

GALE: and? 
DEWEY: the boys said no. she wouldn't give her name. a month later, the station gets broken into, the file room ransacked.
GALE: someone stole sid's file?
DEWEY: i already removed it. i think someone on the film was trying to find sid, and that's the only reason i came here. to make do a little private investigating of my own and make sure no one here was planning anything.
GALE: i'm sorry, this is too good!

DEWEY: i've got my suspicions but still, nothing you say can ever make me take my eyes off one person. 
GALE: and who is that?
DEWEY: jennifer needs me.
GALE: jennifer?! wait, where are you going off to?
DEWEY: i'm on duty.

DEWEY: stop following me. 
GALE: i happen to work for the police
DEWEY: you're not a detective.
GALE: neither are you, magnum p.i.
DEWEY: gale, your engine's still running.
GALE: 
TOM: gale weathers. what a surprise.
GALE: tom prinze, tanked as usual.
TOM: hey i really liked that piece you did on me last month. the one where you said my car accident was caused by me drinking and drugs, and how i faked the tire blow-out just so my insurance wouldn't sky rocket.
GALE: heh, well, that's tv journalism for ya.
TOM: really, cause that stunt lost me the lead role in roman polanski's latest picture. huh, what a coincide i was picked up by roman bridger. well, not exactly the roman i wanted. get my point? stab 3 is because of your big mouth i'm here, drinking water scotch with second rate celebrities like jennifer jollie and yourself! hey, i just got an idea. maybe i should have a look at your break line. that your car over there?
GALE: i think we should go inside. i have to have a talk with the cast. all of you.
TOM: you mean what's left of us. yeah i'm running on empty anyways. gotta refuel.

JENNIFER: you! how can i ever get any fame playing you! 
GALE: dewey, what the is she rambling about now? what's wrong jen, see yourself on one of those usa network winners you did and realize how badly you at acting?
JENNIFER: you gale weathers!
GALE: wait a second, whoa! calm down! number one there were five different versions of the script given out. ben damon was given a fake script because he was only being offered the role. it only had fragments of real scenes from the actual script. and what, i die in stab 3?
JENNIFER: i know right. it was kinda weak. that's cause will kennison only wrote a rough treatment of it. the script was written by some new guy. he wrote arlington street.
GALE: still that was a much better movie, i saw it at the premiere last week. what the am i getting sidetracked with this for?! we've gotta get down to business.
ANGELINA: what are you talking about? because of this i'll probably never act in a hollywood film again.

TOM: angelina! hey! where the are you? i was only playing! hey look, i can really get you a bit part! just come on out! ok? it. there goes my chances of getting some head from her. 
TOM: aaaangelina?

TOM: you fucker! 
TOM: fucker!

JENNIFER: where the are tom and angelina? 
GALE: i don't know. screw them. look, what's important is that we stick together. no matter what. if anyone is next it's you or me jen.
DEWEY: what about sidney?
JENNIFER: what about her?
DEWEY: ssh. maybe it's tom or angelina.
JENNIFER: what if it's the killer?
GALE: oh use your brain drama queen! do the killers ever knock on the door? ever see jason do that before burying an axe in some big titted blonde's head? or maybe michael or chucky? huh?
DEWEY: don't worry. i'm prepared for anything.
GALE: amen boy scout, now answer the door!
JENNIFER: do you smell something?

DEWEY: hurry! everyone out the back way! now! 
GALE: who's phone?
JENNIFER: oh it's my cell!
DEWEY: answer it!
JENNIFER: hello?
VOICE: hello jennifer. wanna play a little game?
JENNIFER: it's him! it's the killer!
GALE: listen you sick bastard, what the do you want?
JENNIFER: what's your favorite scary movie gale?
GALE: i dunno but i can tell you that your's will be the home video footage of me sticking my foot up your ass! now come out and fight like a real man you pussy!
GHOST: i just might!
JENNIFER: it you two! run! hurry!
GALE: no! he's not dead! he's still breathing! look!
DEWEY: gale he's dead. come on. let's get out of here.
THE GHOST IS GONE.: dewey looks to the patio door.

DETECTIVE KINCAID: whoever it is, now is taking credit for maureen prescott's murder. 
GALE: but we know who killed maureen prescott, billy loomis and stu macher. i mean, they even told sidney how they did it!
DETECTIVE KINCAID: yeah, but, if i'm not mistaken, you said in your book that sidney got it wrong before.
DEWEY: i told you, i don't know where sidney is. and even if there was a third killer, sidney doesn't know about it.

GALE: four? there are five. 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: ben damon. christine perkins. sarah darling. tom prinze. that's four, last time i learned how to count.
DEWEY: what about angelina tyler? she was there too.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: police are still searching through the debris. could be days before we find her . . . that is, if she's even there.
GALE: ok, look. we all know that this has something to do with 'stab 3'. what we do not know is why the killer keeps leaving articles about maureen prescott.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: actually, there was more this time.
DEWEY/GALE: what?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: before you jump to conclusions, the man in
DEWEY: what does this have to do with sid?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: who knows more about maureen prescott than her own daughter?
DEWEY: well sid's dad couldn't help you and he was married to maureen.

DEWEY: is that a threat, detective? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: when it's a threat, you'll know it.
DEWEY: is that a threat?
GALE: boys, boys, why don't we compare our gun calibers later? the issue is maureen prescott!
DETECTIVE KINCAID: wrong, this issue is sidney prescott! and either mr. riley is going to obstruct justice or is going to put me in touch with her. so, where is she?

DEWEY: what are you doing here? i told you to stay hidden! it's not safe for you up here. 
SIDNEY: well it's not safe for me up there either. the killer found me dewey. he called me last night.
DEWEY: what?
SIDNEY: i figured i'd be safe if i was at least up here with the people i care about. now where's this kincaid guy the news is talking about? i found this place from a fox 5 tv news report. heh.
DEWEY: follow me.

DEWEY: detective kincaid? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: what rielly?
DEWEY: there's someone here who wants to help.
GALE: oh my sidney, you ran fast or what? hey.
SIDNEY: hi, gale. i'm glad you're all right.
GALE: thank you.
DEWEY: sid, this is detective kincaid.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: nice to finally meet you, sidney.
DEWEY: the killer called her.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: what? when?
GALE: what'd he say?
SIDNEY: oh, you know, the usual small talk, "what's new, how ya been, how do you want to die?"
DEWEY: sidney, do you have any idea how he could've gotten your number?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: he could've monitored the calls on a scanner. did you call her from the set?
DEWEY: no.
GALE: do you have her number stored in your memory? phone memory!
DEWEY: oh. yeah, i guess i do.
GALE: has anyone else every used your phone?
DEWEY: just jennifer. and you.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: hey, i'm the cop here. you're in my office, riley. sidney notices the clippings and the photograph of maureen.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: the killer leaves a newspaper clipping at each murder, sidney. recently he's also left a photo of your mother.
SIDNEY: why didn't you tell me? this is my mother, dewey. why didn't you say something?
DEWEY: i was afraid they were bait, something to, ya know, trick you out of hiding.
SIDNEY: listen, detective, i wanna see this studio where all this shit's going down.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: are you sure?
SIDNEY: absolutely.

DEWEY: alright sid, over there is the stab 3 production offices. that's where sarah darling was murdered last night. 
SIDNEY: mm, what a waste of silicone. what does my mother have to do with this all dewey? we're a long way from woodsboro.
SIDNEY: oh my karen you scared the out of me! what are you doing here?
GALE: who's this.
DEWEY: karen colcheck. from woodsboro.
SIDNEY: she was randy's only girlfriend . . . ever.
KAREN: that's me. first and last.
SIDNEY: it's been a while? you still working at bradley's?
KAREN: nope. they opened up a hollywood video down the street. it pays better. anyway, i'm here because i heard on the news about the murders and well, i found this while rooting through randy's things.

SIDNEY: oh my 
RANDY: well, if you're watching this tape, it means as i feared, i did not survive these killings here at windsor college. anyway, the reason i am here is to help you, so that my death will not be in vain. that my life's work, will
DEWEY: a trilogy?
RANDY: that's right. it's a rarity in the horror field,

SIDNEY: thanks karen. you be careful. 
KAREN: don't worry sid. i got tickets to see family feud. i did have a somewhat ulterior motive for driving all the way down here.
GALE: i've got an idea, i'll hook up with you guys later.
DEWEY: do you want us to come with you?

SIDNEY: i can see nothing's changed. 
DEWEY: no.

JENNIFER: geez. 
GALE: what the are you doing?
JENNIFER: being gale weathers. what the are you doing?
GALE: i am gale weathers!
JENNIFER: here's how i see it. i've got no house, no movie, no gun, and i'm being stalked. because someone wants to kill me? no, because someone wants to kill you. so now, starting now, i go where you go. that way, if someone wants to kill me, i'll be with you, and since they really want to kill you, they won't kill me, they'll kill you. make sense?
GALE: none.

JENNIFER: that's funny. 
GALE: ha. maybe i should join snl.
JENNIFER: need to get in that building?
GALE: no really?
JENNIFER: there a story in that building?
GALE: possibly.
JENNIFER: gale weathers would find a way.

JENNIFER: basements creep me out. 
GALE: really, you know you'd make a fascinating
JENNIFER: look who's talking moneybags. you got more homes than i do.
GALE: oh i wish i got that one on tape. it'd put a smile on my face everytime i'm down.
JENNIFER: 

BIANCA: can i help you? 
GALE: i'm gale weathers, author of the woodsboro and windsor college murders, and anchorwoman
BIANCA: i don't watch tv and i hate books.

BIANCA: nope. 
BIANCA: listen, i'm busy. nobody has access to those
GALE: well if you won't work for me, will you work for the president?
BIANCA: the president . . . of the studio.
JENNIFER: twenty dollars? who are you nancy drew?
JENNIFER: go ahead. it's worth three grand easy. my gale weather's will stop at nothing to get the story.
BIANCA: follow me.

GALE: it may be maureen reynolds -- 
BIANCA: well you'll find neither. rina reynolds, however, you will.
JENNIFER: rina reynolds. what a stage name.
BIANCA: you should talk, judy jurgenstein.
GALE: what are these movies? 'amazombies',
BIANCA: horror flicks. b-movies from milton's heyday.
GALE/JENNIFER: what?
BIANCA: you know, john milton, the horror producer? those were some of his early flicks.

SIDNEY: listen dewey i have to go to the bathroom. 
DEWEY: do you want me to come with you sid?
SIDNEY: no i'll be ok. i've got my mace. my knife. these two lethal weapons.
DETECTIVE WALLACE: sure you don't need a police escort?
SIDNEY: no really, i'll be fine.
SIDNEY: i'll be right back.

DEWEY: don't worry, i've got a permit for it. 
SIDNEY: christ dewey help me! they tried to kill me in the bathroom!
DETECTIVE WALLACE: wait a second? killers? there's two of them now? aw
DETECTIVE WALLACE: yeah this is wallace. we got a problem down here on the sunrise studios lot. no not another one. at least not yet. yeah we've had an attack. do you need medical assistance? no. oh really. alright, see you in a minute. wallace closes up his phone.
DEWEY: what?
DETECTIVE WALLACE: well i got some good news in a way. roman bridger didn't make those calls to sarah darling. police let him go. here's the bad news: the cellular was cloned, it's untraceable. we now have no suspects.
GALE: dew!
GALE: sidney, what happened?
DEWEY: nevermind, what'd you two find?
GALE: we did some researching in the archives.
SIDNEY: what are you talking about?
JENNIFER: we've found out where she went.
GALE: she was an actress sidney. minor b-movies. but now we have a new suspect in this twisted web . . . john milton.
DETECTIVE WALLACE: the head of the studio?
GALE: it makes sense doesn't it? it's his big grandiose swan song from the genre.
JENNIFER: sidney, what happened?
SIDNEY: i was attacked in the bathroom.
DEWEY: wallace, shouldn't you be investigating the bathroom?
DETECTIVE WALLACE: i'm waiting for back-up. i don't carry bullets in my gun unless i know i'm gonna use em.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: christ sidney, what happened? i got a call on my cell from home.
DEWEY: and what made you think it was sidney?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: sid, get in my car. you're coming back to the station with me where it's safe.
GALE: dewey, jennifer, i think we should pay john milton a little visit.
DEWEY/JENNIFER: agreed.

DEWEY: so you knew sidney prescott's mother. 
MILTON: just what the do you people think you're doing, barging in here like this? i've got important calls to make. i run this studio.
GALE: answer the question. you knew sidney's mom?
MILTON: who?
JENNIFER: rina reynolds.
MILTON: do you know how many actors have worked for me? hundreds, thousands.
GALE: nobody said she was an actor.
JENNIFER: good twist.

MILTON: i remember her! she was a bit player in a couple of my movies. a nobody! so what does it matter? 
JENNIFER: oh, come on! you have made millions off the story of her murder. you're obsessed with her and you're obsessed with her daughter!
GALE: settle down beavis. why don't you tell us the truth?

DEWEY: but you know who she was. 
MILTON: when we did the first 'stab" i realized i'd
GALE: and now? i mean, murders on your set and still you say nothing?
MILTON: get real, that would make me a suspect!
GALE: just because you knew her?
MILTON: yeah.
GALE: i don't think so! just what happened to maureen when she was in hollywood?
MILTON: now you listen to me, lois lane, let it go. it's dead and buried. daddy took ol' yeller out behind the barn and shot him in the head a long time ago.
GALE: well how would you like his rotten carcass dug up and drug all over national tv? why don't you start talking.
MILTON: it was in the 70's, everything was different.
GALE: are you saying she was-
MILTON: i'm saying things got out of hand. maybe they

SIDNEY: what do you know about trilogies? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: you mean like, movie trilogies?
SIDNEY: you seem to like movies, detective.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: call me mark, would you? cause i'm gonna keep calling you sidney.
SIDNEY: i'll call you mark when you catch the killer, detective.

SIDNEY: did you request this case? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: no, they tend to put me on the ones that deal with the business. i grew up here, and i know my way around the studios.

DETECTIVE KINCAID: to me hollywood is about death. 
SIDNEY: excuse me?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i'm a homicide detective, remember? when you
SIDNEY: what do you mean?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: i know what it's like to see ghosts that don't
SIDNEY: ghosts are tough, you can't shoot ghosts.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: can't arrest ghosts. but the best way to stop being haunted is to be with people. you're here, you're not hiding, you've done the right thing, miss prescott.
SIDNEY: hmm.
DETECTIVE KINCAID: what did you know about your mother?
SIDNEY: i used to think i had the perfect mom, perfect family. till i found out i was wrong. she had a secret life, and i tried to understand that, and soon as i thought i had, more secrets. i don't' know who my mom was. sometimes i feel like i'm just learning about my mother for the first time. you know, with tv and those movies and what not. sometimes i feel like i'm just learning about myself for the first
SIDNEY: how is that good news?

SIDNEY: oh yeah, how? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: catch him, or kill him.
SIDNEY: hey detective? what's your favorite scary movie?
DETECTIVE KINCAID: my life.
SIDNEY: mine too.

JENNIFER: oh gale, dewey was right. stop getting so nervous and you might stop causing me to gag! 
JENNIFER: i think milton's the killer.
GALE: milton's not a killer. he's a pervert.
JENNIFER: rob reiner and quentin tarentino?
GALE: do you get any of my witty humor? i mean, you did play me for three movies. his two hands, dingus.
DEWEY: ssh ladies.

MILTON: john milton. 
VOICE: wanna play a game?
MILTON: who is this?

DEWEY: hold on gale, i'm a pro at this. dewey leans in, bumping his head with gale's. 
GALE: oh dewey i'm sorry.
GALE: here. let me -- jennifer, chimes in. clearly annoyed.
JENNIFER: excuse me gale! what the do you think you're doing?
DEWEY: let's get this drawer open. if it's locked, there must be something inside he's trying to hide.
GALE: that's gonna leave a mark.
JENNIFER: what? what'd you find?

DEWEY: who is it? 
JENNIFER: guys! i got a bad feeling.

JENNIFER: guys there's someone else in the room! 
DEWEY: huh?
DEWEY: gale run!
GALE: dewey!

DETECTIVE KINCAID: gale what happened? 
DETECTIVE KINCAID: alright, calm down. i'm going to radio in for backup right now.
VOICE: not so fast. we're not finished.
VOICE: i wouldn't run if i were you gale. it's only gonna end up with you getting skewered like a pig. i need you.
GALE: awfully late time to be doing an interview.
VOICE: i need you as bait. for sidney.

SIDNEY: hello? 
SIDNEY'S VOICE: hello?
SIDNEY: who is this?
PHONE SIDNEY: who is this?
SIDNEY: um wh-who's calling?
PHONE SIDNEY: um wh-who's calling?
SIDNEY: gale, dewey, whoever, um, call me back, i can only hear myself.
VOICE: { a click } i only her you too, sidney.
SIDNEY: who is this?
VOICE: the question isn't who i am. the question is, who's with me.
GALE: sidney, stay away!
VOICE: don't do it! if you do one thing to attract attention, one thing, i'll kill them both. now, do you have somewhere we can be alone?
SIDNEY: yes.
VOICE: go there.
VOICE: always hard being friends with you, sidney. when you're friends with sidney, you die! well these friends don't have to, sidney. it's up to you.
SIDNEY: how do i know their voices are --

DEWEY: don't come here sidney! 
GALE: dewey! no!
VOICE: or do you?
SIDNEY: you're dead!
VOICE: i don't want them, i want you! it's simple. you show yourself, they survive, you run, they die!
GALE: oh oh
VOICE: don't you want to know sidney? don't you want to know who killed her? don't you want to know who killed your mother?
COP: have you seen kincaid?
COP 2: no. but wallace is around.
SIDNEY: where?

VOICE: i'll call you, when you're on your way. 
SIDNEY: 

SIDNEY: yeah? 
VOICE: you follow directions good. now let's wrap this production. go to the sunrise studios backlot. i'll call you when you get there.

SIDNEY: alright, i'm here. now what? 
VOICE: you're doing real good. can't you figure it out? i wanna finish this where it all began. woodsboro.
SIDNEY: i thought you wanted me here?

SIDNEY: yeah? 
DEWEY: help me sid! the killer's got me!
SIDNEY: dewey?! ohmigod! where are you?!
DEWEY: sid i can see you!
SIDNEY: where are you dewey?
DEWEY: i'm out back. tied up. hurry sid! the killer's looking for you! quick untie me!
DEWEY: good work sid.

GHOST: you play a good game sidney. 
SIDNEY: who are you?
GHOST: your other half.

GALE: christ sidney hurry up! that lunatic is coming! 
SIDNEY: gale he's got dewey!
GALE: i know! he killed kincaid!
SIDNEY: i know!
GALE: let's get out of here!

DEWEY: sidney? sidney turns around -- 
SIDNEY: dewey!
DEWEY: where's gale?
SIDNEY: they've got her!
DEWEY: sid i want you to stay here! i'll be right back! i'm not gonna let them get gale!
DEWEY: hold it right there you fucker!
DEWEY: oh
IT'S ANGELINA TYLER.: she's been brutally stabbed.
SIDNEY: oh
ANGELINA: time to sort things out.

SIDNEY: it's you?! all of this is because of you? 
ANGELINA: no. not all of it. sid, someone really wants to meet you.
ANGELINA: uh-un sid. you're not gonna run off.
VOICE: you're not going anywhere sidney. it's time you came to terms with me, and with mother! maybe you never knew her at all, sid. maybe you can't get past the surface of things.
SIDNEY: who the are you?

ROMAN: roman bridger, director. and brother. 
SIDNEY: all the nightmares. all the i went through was because of you, you spineless bastard!
ROMAN: i'm a director sid, i direct. for example, angelina over there, she's my partner. i can convince her to do anything. we've been dating since i met her in woodsboro.
SIDNEY: oh my angie crick? from english class?
ANGELINA: that's me sid. i always idolized you. you
ROMAN: and i kinda keep her around cause it's a bit of
ROMAN: wait a second sid. don't you go jumping the gun. you haven't seen the best part.

ROMAN: see sidney, as amateur as billy and stu were, they laid the groundwork for this! see sidney, they also set the stage for you! introducing to the world sidney the victim! sidney the survivor! sidney the star! 
ROMAN: see sid, now comes the part where we get away with it! the part where we win! cause face it sidney, in this world, the bad guys win!

ROMAN: it sidney! 
GALE: i know all the tricks!

SIDNEY: dewey my i thought you were dead. 
DEWEY: don't worry sid i'd never leave you like that.

DEWEY: watch out sid. randy said the killer's always superhuman. 
SIDNEY: he wasn't superhuman dewey. he wasn't superhuman at all. then a horrifying scream rips through the air.

SIDNEY: this is really getting repetitive, you know? 
SHOT TO ROMAN'S HEAD.: sid drops the gun, walks off set.

DETECTIVE WALLACE: christ what happened? i leave for two seconds to take my kid to the doctor, i come back and it's the wild bunch. 
SIDNEY: it was just something that's been itching to be completed for the past four years.
DETECTIVE WALLACE: i guess so.
SIDNEY: take care detective. give my regards to the wife and kids.

