MACGOWAN: we need your assistance! 
INDIANA: c'mon, mac... it's the first bite i've had all week...
MACGOWAN: please... it's very importantl...

INDIANA: do you value our friendship, mac? 
MACGOWAN: more than me' nightly pint.
INDIANA: then this better not be some wild goose chase...
MACGOWAN: t'ain't wild geese we're after, doctor jones. you got me' word on that... ...and a macgowan's word is truer than an angel's kiss!
YOUNG MAN: scotty ferguson.
OLD WOMAN: he's the eighth.
MAN: just like the others...all his bones busted...crushed...
OLD MAN: whatever's killin' people around here ain't human.
WOMAN: it's there! again!

MACGOWAN: that light...only burns after a murder's been committed. 
INDIANA: let's go.
MACGOWAN: well... ahmmmm...that is what we're here for...eh, men?...ah... hennesey... galbraith... bottomley... you're comin' with us.
ELDERLY WOMAN: may help them.

HENNESEY: it's deathly cold in 'ere. how could a human bein' survive?... 
INDIANA: this guy's got one of an ego.
MACGOWAN: baron seamus seagrove iii. some say 'e walks the moors every midnight... others claim e's been dead for years...

MACGOWAN: thanks for catchin' me. 
INDIANA: i'd rather be catchin' trout.
INDIANA: interesting blood type...
INDIANA: cabernet sauvignon. 1897.

INDIANA: let's get outta' here. 
BOTTOMLEY: inspector macgowan! galbraith! open the door!
INDIANA: i need more light.
INDIANA: bottomley?...
INDIANA: bottomley?...

MACGOWAN: doctor jones! try to push! 
INDIANA: can't! there's some kinda' hot ice coverin' the...

INDIANA: excuse me, sir...? hello...? 
INDIANA: canyou hear me?...

INDIANA: chow time's over, mister. you better start talkin'. 
INDIANA: there's a lot of strange things happening around here...
INDIANA: ...and i want some answers! do you hear me? i want some answers! now!
INDIANA: haven't you had enough?
MACGOWAN: now you can get back to your fishing, doctor jones.
INDIANA: no chance, mac. my plane leaves in the morning. vacation's over. gotta' get back to school.
MACGOWAN: 'tis a shame to go home empty handed... tell ya' what, my friend... i fancy me'self quite the fisherman... tomorrow, i'll go out and catch you a real beauty, eh?...
INDIANA: right. send it to me airmail.
MACGOWAN: doctor jones! a macgowan's word is truer than...
INDIANA: yeah, yeah...an angel's kiss. i know.

BARON SEAGROVE: no...jail...can...hold...me. 
VILLAGER: 'e's done it! indiana jones has captured the killer!

MACGOWAN: what is it, man? you look as if you've seen a screamin' banshee! 
INDIANA: ah... it was nothing, mac. nothing at all.

TEDDY: doctor jones... i took your class instead of all the others!... i coulda' had professor needles... professor eisenschmidt... 
ANGELA: you promised. you said you'd have 'em graded by yesterday.
VIRGIL: my paper finished yet? name's "virgil vektor". that's virgil. capital v... i... r...
JULIA: my parents paid good money to send me here. you know how much they shelled out for your class?
CHARLES: he doesn't care about us. he only wants fame and fortune. we're just a buncha' peons to him.
VIRGIL: vektor. capital v... e... k...
BETSY: hello, ind -- doctor jones.
INDIANA: not now, betsy.
BETSY: look at all of those papers!
INDIANA: please, i...
BETSY: want me to come by later? help you grade?
INDIANA: help me grade. yeah. sure.
BETSY: goodbye, ind -- doctor jones!
VIRGIL: didja' get the name? virgil! capital

PRIESTLY: moby 
INDIANA: huh?...
PRIESTLY: that's what i named 'im. captain said it was the biggest fish he ever saw.
PRIESTLY: what about you, jonesey? you were over in scotty-land for two weeks...
INDIANA: look, priestly... i'm real busy...

REBECCA: two-timing bastard! 
REBECCA: how could you?!?... my own mother?!?... in my own bed?!?... i've had it with you! it's over!
POSTMAN: special delivery! dr. indiana jones!
DEAN COVENTRY: doctor jones, i've had complaints from several of the students --
POSTMAN: sign here.
DEAN COVENTRY: they feel that you are ignoring them, that you are distracted...
INDIANA: me?... distracted?...
POSTMAN: what's this? "b+"? that's how you sign your name?
DEAN COVENTRY: marshall university is not the place for sloppy behavior...
DEAN COVENTRY: i have one final warning for you, doctor jones --
INDIANA: yes... oh, hello, marcus... look, can you hold on?... you were saying, sir?
DEAN COVENTRY: either you begin concentrating on your --
INDIANA: yes, marcus... i'm still here... just hold on! i'm very sorry, sir...
DEAN COVENTRY: -- concentrating on your teaching duties or --
INDIANA: it, marcus! i'm standing here with dean... what?.. just how important?... it is, huh?... okay. five minutes. yeah. i'll be right over. but this better be important, marcus!
DEAN COVENTRY: you are on probation, jones! ten days! if there is no improvement, you will be dismissed!
INDIANA: i promise...by tomorrow...i'll have all of these graded...and dried!
VIRGIL: virgil vektor! capital v... i...

INDIANA: this better be important, marcus... or the museum will soon be displaying my bones. my teaching career is in danger of extinction. 
MARCUS: you will not be disappointed, indiana.

MARCUS: ...look familiar? 
INDIANA: "sun wu kung, the stone monkey king". big deal. that was ten years ago, marcus. geez! this heller kid's got the worst grammar.
MARCUS: ten years or fifty years. it will always be in your blood.
INDIANA: don't believe this... he spells "repeat" with two "e's".
MARCUS: think back, indiana. remember your desire? your passion?
INDIANA: kid gets an "a" on content...a "d" on form.
MARCUS: it, man! you can't bury those feelings forever!
INDIANA: two years. nearly two years of my life...looking for the remains of that monkey...a piece of his legendary golden hooped rod...or some sign of the lost city. nine men perished on the journey. rest of us nearly died from starvation or one of the many horrible deseases we discovered... we still came back empty handed.
MARCUS: one mustn't give up so easily, indiana.
INDIANA: give up?!?... marcus, we spent thirteen months in china!...another seven in india!...
MARCUS: but none in africa.
INDIANA: there was no proof...archeological or anthropological...to indicate that sun wu-kung ever visited africa...
MARCUS: until now.
INDIANA: hey... my papers...
MARCUS: the woman is dr. clare clarke. the famous zoologist. she works in africa, studying animals in their natural habitat.
INDIANA: very interesting, marcus. now if you'll turn the lights back on --
MARCUS: three weeks ago, dr. clarke discovered that cute little fellow... "tyki"...a pygmy of an unusual race...unrelated to any known african tribe...
INDIANA: marcus. the lights.
MARCUS: dr. clarke believes that tyki comes from the lost civilization of sun wu-kung.
INDIANA: what?... but how did miss --
MARCUS: "doctor".
INDIANA: "doctor" clake. how did she arrive at such a preposterous hypothesis?
MARCUS: the pygmy speaks in a language that has no african origins...but bears a strong resemblance to chinese.
INDIANA: means nothing. the rivers of africa have been plagued by various oriental pirates and scavengers since the 16th century. not much evidence, marcus.
MARCUS: there's more. the pygmy was found wearing an ornamental peach stone around his neck...believed to come from sun wu-kung's legendary garden of immortal peaches.
INDIANA: marcus, there are countless undiscovered african tribes...all with various obscure beliefs and practices... one tribe may wear peach stones... another may wear banana peels...
MARCUS: there is one final bit of evidence...
INDIANA: enlighten me.
MARCUS: the pygmy is over 200 years old.

INDIANA: that's impossible. 
MARCUS: dr. clarke has done a considerable amount of testing on the pygmy's clothing...his sandals...everything was over 200 years old.
INDIANA: what does all of this have to do with me?
MARCUS: dr. clarke wants to mount an expedition to find the lost city of sun wu-kung. she is quite familiar with your reputation...she'd like you to come along.
INDIANA: no chance.
MARCUS: there will be money involved... the museum is willing to fund the expedition...
INDIANA: sorry, marcus. i've burned this bridge.
MARCUS: indiana...
INDIANA: marcus. please. i've got to finish these...
MARCUS: you've got to finish something much more important. you crossed the threshold over a decade ago...and it's been tearing at your insides ever since. my friend, if there is even one iota of truth in dr. clarke's findings... then you can lift the veil of mystery that has surrounded this chinese legend for centuries. you may uncover the secrets to a lost civilization...and possibly, to man's never ending search for immortality.
MARCUS: indiana... can you afford to pass up the single most important adventure of your life?

BETSY: you can't do this to me! 
INDIANA: c'mon, betsy. relax. you're gettin' 'em all wet again.
BETSY: you just can't go away...i mean... africa is so far away, and...well... i love you, indy.
INDIANA: thought we agreed this was s'posed to be casual...
BETSY: you call what happened last night "casual".
INDIANA: my dear...a momentary lapse into passion does not a love affair make.
BETSY: momentary lapse! so that's all i am to you!
INDIANA: betsy... wait...
INDIANA: whatsa' matter with you!... tryin' to ruin my whip!...
BETSY: if i can't have you... i don't want to live.
INDIANA: drink this. you'll feel better.
INDIANA: c'mon, betsy... get a hold of yourself. you're young. there are a lot of other guys...
BETSY: not like you.
INDIANA: that's true... but that's no reason to stop living! besides, i'm too old for you. by the time you're seventy five, i'll be... yeccchhh! i'll be disgusting.
BETSY: don't leave me, indy!
BETSY: never underestimate the determination of a brooklyn girl, doctor jones. never.

SCRAGGY: indy! at last we are reunited! oh, keechingo, of friendship...i thank you for granting my wish! 
INDIANA: i see you haven't changed, scraggy.
SCRAGGY: mahootmek, of goodness, say... "before body make contact with foreign object...one must cast out bad spirits, or -- "
INDIANA: " -- or bad spirits will enter your body!"
SCRAGGY: yes! you have excellent memory, indy.
INDIANA: i should! last time we saw each other...you made me wear the same clothes for 3 weeks straight.
SCRAGGY: never separate body from clothes, or bad spirits will hide in pockets!
INDIANA: in other words... if people never changed clothes...there would be no evil in the world.
SCRAGGY: exactly!
INDIANA: i missed all a' your crazy philosophies, scraggy.
SCRAGGY: they not so crazy, indy. these days... there is much evil in the air. i feel it. everywhere.

CLARE: dr. jones! forgive me. 
INDIANA: no sweat.
CLARE: thought i was being attacked by a degenerate sailor.
INDIANA: no. just a degenerate archeologist.
CLARE: your appearance is deceiving.
INDIANA: likewise.
PORTER: indiana jones! calling passenger indiana jones!
PORTER: you left this aboard ship.
INDIANA: there must be some mistake... i didn't --

PORTER: that's you, ain't it? 
INDIANA: well, yeah...but...
SCRAGGY: indy! remember mahootmek, of goodness! "before body make contact with foreign object -- "
SCRAGGY: "...you must cast out bad spirits!"
INDIANA: may i call you "clare"?
CLARE: please.
INDIANA: well, clare... we've obviously got a lot of notes to compare... let's get started tonight...over dinner.
CLARE: i'd like that very much.
INDIANA: friend of mine owns a cafe... he'll get us a nice quiet table. no disturbances. just the two of us --
SCRAGGY: i warn you, indy! you must always cast out bad spirits!
BETSY: my precious!
CLARE: your daughter?
INDIANA: my assistant.
BETSY: his girlfriend.
CLARE: a child!
INDIANA: it's nothing. really. what the are you doing here'?
BETSY: proving my love for you.
CLARE: how terribly sordid.
INDIANA: puppy love. schoolgirl crush. she'll get over it.
BETSY: never. this proves that nothing can come between us. not an ocean. not two separate continents.
CLARE: think i'm going to be ill.
INDIANA: how...i mean... how could you stay alive?
BETSY: hey... i'm from brooklyn.
INDIANA: but we'ye been sailing for three weeks!
BETSY: stowed away in the banana barrel.
CLARE: charming.
BETSY: hey, indy... who's the babe?
CLARE: your intellectual and emotional superior.
BETSY: yeah...well you're gettin' on my nerves, miss... miss...
CLARE: "doctor" clare clarke.
BETSY: betsy tuffet...
CLARE: as in curds and whey?
BETSY: listen, sister... you better stay away from indy...
CLARE: my dear, he has no interest in me. i've already celebrated my tenth birthday.
INDIANA: look, betsy... why don't you get back on the boat... this time, as a passenger.
SCRAGGY: too late, indy.
INDIANA: when's the next one out?
SCRAGGY: two weeks.

MEPHISTO: were you successful? 
MEPHISTO: keep a record of everything that is said.
MEPHISTO: ever since our battle for the lost ark... the feuhrer has been very interested in the adventures of indiana jones. very interested.

CLARE: tyki... this is doctor jones... 
INDIANA: he's a real gentleman.
CLARE: just basic manners. what it takes most men a lifetime to learn... tyki's accomplished in two weeks. this is our guide, scraggy brier... and miss bets--

CLARE: it appears that bonzo is attracted to miss tuffet's derfume... eau de banana peel. 
INDIANA: where did you find him?...
CLARE: about ten miles from here. we were on a photographic expedition...in the thick of the jungle... i heard sounds. whimpering. moaning. i took a few steps, and found tyki. he was lying in a shallow swamp...semi conscious...a high fever...nearly dead from exhaustion. he had obviously been travelling on foot for many days, over countless miles... so i brought him back to the compound...nursed him back to health...
INDIANA: clare, i hate to quibble with your anthropological abilities...
CLARE: quibble.
INDIANA: ...but if this little fellow is over 200 years old... i mean... what accounts for his youthful appearance?...his vitality?...

CLARE: dr. jones, you are obviously familiar with the legend of sun wu- king's garden of immortal peaches?... 
INDIANA: a bite from the fruit of that peach tree would give a person eternal life...make them forever young...

INDIANA: there's nothing unusual about this ...nothing to indicate that it's from sun wu kung's garden... 
CLARE: this fruit fly had a normal life- span of twenty four hours. as an experiment...the fly was put in this room...alone...with only the peach stone to sustain its existence. the fly stayed alive for
THREE WEEKS.: until now.
INDIANA: sorry.

CLARE: he understands him? 
INDIANA: scraggy knows hundreds of languages... he's the best guide in africa. ask tyki where he came from.
SCRAGGY: he say... "i come from 'land of city on clouds'".
SCRAGGY: he say if he could... he would go back!
SCRAGGY: he say "pai cho" may help you.
CLARE: "pai cho"?
INDIANA: the sacres proverbs and writings of sun wu kung. his disciples always carry the pai cho with them...
INDIANA: can you translate it?...
BETSY: get...him...off...of...me...!

SCRAGGY: "sun wu kung run like fire, he journey to many monkey land, to build his final empire." 
BETSY: who's sun wu-kung?
INDIANA: many monkey land... that's a definite reference to africa.
BETSY: africa?... he journeyed to africa?...
CLARE: that confirms our suspicions that he may have formed his civilization here...
BETSY: what civilization?
INDIANA: betsy. keep your trap shut. this doesn't concern you.
BETSY: fine. terrific. who cares about this stuff anyway! we're in a nightclub. we should be havin' fun. c'mon, indy. let's dance.
INDIANA: later.
BETSY: what a buncha' stiffs! bet you can't dance.
CLARE: quite the contrary...i spent several months studying dance.
BETSY: oh yeah? whattayou' know?... the bunny hop?... the jitterbug?...
CLARE: the bondogea. the kyebe kyebe. the dungumaro.
BETSY: huh?
CLARE: african tribal dances.
BETSY: never heard of 'em.
CLARE: of course not. they're beyond the spectrum of your microscopic world.

DASHIELL: enjoying your dinners?... 
DASHIELL: watch yourself, sport. most of the talk here tonight is about you. and it isn't good.
DASHIELL: i don't know what you've done to the nazis. but they are certainly no friends of yours.

SCRAGGY: "with his golden hooped rod, and its powerful lightning rays, sun wu kung build water curtain cave, where he live for 500 days." 
CLARE: the golden hooped rod?
INDIANA: a heavenly staff with many different powers...most notably, it had the ability to transform itself into hundreds of objects... it remains the most priceless treasure of sun wu kung's empire.
CLARE: and what is the...the water curtain cave?
INDIANA: sun wu kung's legendary hideout...an enormous secret cave, hidden behind a running waterfall.
INDIANA: this proves that the water curtain cave exists in africa... does it mention anything about sun wu kung's travels?
SCRAGGY: only place called..."twisted snake water".
INDIANA: the zarnbesi river! it has a reputation for its deadly water snakes...
CLARE: it would have been sun wu kung's logical path.
INDIANA: it will also be our logical path.

CLARE: please try to control that monstrous libido of yours! 
INDIANA: we have to get back to the compound. tyki may be in danger.

INDIANA: when i tell you... hit the brakes! 
INDIANA: now, scraggy!

BETSY: about time we had some fun! 
SCRAGGY: bad spirits have indy! he in trouble! big trouble! scraggy runs off screen.

GUTTERBUHG: goodnight, doctor jones. 
DASHIELL: scraggy said you might be needing some help, sport.
DASHIELL: indy! rollout!
DASHIELL: you okay, sport?
INDIANA: dash!...

BETSY: what a romantic night! 
CLARE: will they hurt tyki?
INDIANA: they know he's important to us. they'll use him to bargain for this.
BETSY: indy, you smell so good! so masculine!
CLARE: will they be following us?
INDIANA: every step of the way.
BETSY: mmmm, indy. i love it when you don't shave. it's so sexy!
SCRAGGY: pandoola, of purity, say... "always stay ten paces ahead of bad spirit".
INDIANA: exactly. we can't let the nazis get to the city first. if they do, they'll wipe out one of the greatest archeological finds in history!
BETSY: how 'bout a little goodnight kiss?
BETSY: mmmmm, indy...you really know the way to a girl's heart!

CLARE: what is that awful aroma? 
INDIANA: scraggy's takin' a shower.
INDIANA: he believes that onions keep bad spirits from entering his body.
CLARE: in all my years of anthropology... i've never run across anyone or anything quite like scraggy.
INDIANA: he's a rare breed. you're looking very lovely.
CLARE: you're looking very lecherous.
INDIANA: just tryin' to be friendly.
CLARE: save it for the schoolgirls.
INDIANA: look, clare... betsy's just an anxious archeology student...she admires my work... who can blame her?... but it's just some kinda' hero worship thing...
BETSY: i dreamed about our first night together!
INDIANA: you're writin' this down?...
CLARE: i'm keeping an accurate record of our journey.
INDIANA: what's that got to do with my personal life?
CLARE: evidence. i plan on testifying at your child molestation trial.
INDIANA: why do i do this to myself?
BETSY: hey, lady...you're s'posed to be a doctor...you got any cures for a hangover?...
CLARE: the best i've heard was used by a new zealand tribe... one part crushed owl skull...two parts rhino saliva...one part zebra dandruff.
INDIANA: no, no... get a cup of donkey sweat ...two spoons of skunk hair...and one pint of shredded lizard tongue.
SCRAGGY: i always use family cure! two spoons chopped leeches... half cup horse mucous...two quarts crocodile urine!
BETSY: ex...cuse...me...!
SCRAGGY: how far we travel, indy?...
INDIANA: almost 20 miles.
CLARE: any sign of the nazis?
INDIANA: long as we keep up this pace... they'll have trouble tracking us.

BETSY: it's so hot... stuffy... do we have to stay on this stupid boat all night?... 
INDIANA: we have to keep moving.
BETSY: can we at least jump in the water?... go for a swim?...
CLARE: there's an old legend about the zambesi... in ancient times, criminals were given their choice of execution...or swimming across the zambesi. most chose execution.
INDIANA: clare's right. we'll be safer on the boat. now quit moanin' and eat your food.
BETSY: you are so rude! i travel thousands of miles just to be with you...and everybody treats me like dirt! nobody even talks to me without making some condescending remark they think i'm too stupid to understand! so maybe i don't know a lot about weird tribal dances... i'm still pretty good with anthropology and archeology... maybe i could even help you out...if somebody gave me a chance...clued me in to what it is we're doin' here... 'cause whether you like it or not, indiana jones... i'm part of this expedition, too!
SCRAGGY: my friends also curious about where we journey to, indy.

CLARE: tell us all a bedtime story, doctor jones. 
INDIANA: long ago...a place known as the flower fruit mountain, in the chinese province of ao-lai...was struck by lightning. a stone monkey, "sun wu-kung", was born.
SCRAGGY: this monkey?... he could walk?...
INDIANA: more than human. he was blessed with countless heavenly powers... but it wasn't enough. sun wu-kung wanted to learn the secret of eternal life... of immortality... equipped with his golden hooped rod to protect him, sun wu kung travelled the world for many years ...learning the secret philosophies and teachings of eternal youth. eventually, he was granted entrance to heaven...where the jade emperor gave sun wu kung the title of "great sage of the heavens"...and permitted him to oversee the garden of immortal peaches. after several years, the stone monkey returned to somewhere on earth. here, he ruled an empire...a civilization of monkeys and humans who had life spans of many hundred years... the exact whereabouts of that lost city has been a mystery for hundreds of years...until doctor clarke discovered the pygmy.
INDIANA: it's uncertain just how much of this legend is based in reality... nevertheless, we're hoping to find some sign of the lost civilization.
BETSY: what about sun wu kung?...
INDIANA: whatever he was...a stone idol...an actual monkey...a human being...is unknown. but he is one of the most influentual religious figures in history, and his remains are most likely somewhere in the lost city.
INDIANA: sound familiar?
SCRAGGY: it is far, far away...many miles...
BETSY: what is it?... some kinda' weird animal?...
CLARE: no animal sounds like that.
SCRAGGY: could be "banseebaba".
CLARE: banseebaba?
SCRAGGY: banseebaba is giant demon from hell. he is 50 feet tall. breathes fire. make sound like human never hear before. he is made up of all evil in the world!
CLARE: cheery thought.
INDIANA: whatever the it is... it went to sleep for the night. which is what we should do.

BETSY: couldn't sleep. the heat. i'm in the mood for passion. 
INDIANA: i'm in the mood for isolation.
BETSY: i'm not leaving. not till i get a kiss.
INDIANA: betsy...
BETSY: one kiss. or i'll scream. i swear. i'll wake the whole boat.
INDIANA: okay. just one. keep your mouth closed.

INDIANA: what's that you're writing?... 
CLARE: "the adventures of indiana jones, professor of perversity".
INDIANA: very funny.

INDIANA: you are blowing this betsy thing all out of proportion... 
INDIANA: it's not as if i have this sleazy reputation...
INDIANA: i am a respected...honored... admired...
BETSY: c'mon... you ain't so tough. you wouldn't last ten minutes in brooklyn.

INDIANA: wait... 
INDIANA: free the girl... ...and my friends... ...or i blow your hideout here out of the water!
KEZURE: good. we will all die.
INDIANA: we can take you to the lost city of sun wu kung!
KEZURE: hah! better men than you have tried to find the lost city... they have all failed. you are a fool.
INDIANA: as the tnt fuse burns
LOWER...LOWER...): no... you're the fool. you and your friends are hiding out in sun wu kung's water curtain cave...and you don't even know it.
KEZURE: huh?...
INDIANA: the sacred pai-cho scroll.
INDIANA: don't bother. only we can translate it.
KEZURE: the lost city... said to have streets paved in gold...treasures far greater than any mortal man could imagine...
KEZURE: your pathetic lives will be spared. for now. but everything we find in the lost city...belongs to me.
INDIANA: fat chance, sinbad. it's 50-50. or you've got no deal.
KEZURE: it is my way. or you've got no head.

INDIANA: read that last proverb again... 
SCRAGGY: "high tide drowns curiosity, low tide quenches thirst".
INDIANA: there's something here...something that could help us...
BETSY: look at 'em. it's like they've never seen a woman before.
CLARE: to them... we're the ultimate women.
BETSY: kinda' flattering, isn't it?... being the girl of 200 guy's dreams? clare and betsy exchange a chuckle.
INDIANA: is there an area... a place where the tide changes?...
KEZURE: in a few hours...the water will be lower...much lower...
INDIANA: and the remainder of this wall will be visible?....
INDIANA: we're gonna need light. a lot of light. on this wall.

KEZURE: to my good fortune. 
KEZURE: you know... we are very much alike, doctor jones.
INDIANA: i doubt that.
KEZURE: we both share a remarkable talent for killing.
INDIANA: i've never gotten used to killing, pal. i do it for survival.
KEZURE: i do it for pleasure.
INDIANA: this is incredible...this map was obviously used by sun wu kung's disciples...if they were ever lost...
KEZURE: these drawings...they are of the surrounding jungle...
INDIANA: where is that?...
KEZURE: it is located at the most south eastern part of the jungle...near the mountains... there is a village there. the mongooboo tribe.
INDIANA: you know them?
KEZURE: very well. i traded with the chief for many years.

INDIANA: that sound. again. 
KEZURE: the village is there. beyond the thick of jungle.
INDIANA: thought you said they knew you?... kezure gives a puzzled shrug.

INDIANA: wait... listen... they're not following us... 
INDIANA: be careful where you step... we've got to move slowly...very slowly...

INDIANA: clare! what are you...?!? 
CLARE: i imitated the sound of a lion mother calling her babies. betsy is impressed. indiana smiles. relieved.
INDIANA: c'mon. let's get outta' --
INDIANA: is this the tribal chief you told me about?... your friend?...
KEZURE: no. that is him.

KEZURE: this is a different tribe. new. they have taken over the village. 
INDIANA: what happened to the other tribe?
INDIANA: you recognize their language?

SCRAGGY: i tell him we divine messengers of sun wu-kung. if he interfere with our mission... jade emperor come down from heavens and destroy his village. 
SCRAGGY: i tell him we lose path to city... i ask if he have something to help us.

BETSY: indy. i'm frightened. 
INDIANA: i'm claustrophobic.
INDIANA: clare!... wait!...

BETSY: an earthquake? 
SCRAGGY: wildebeest.

CLARE: we have to get out... or we'll be crushed to death. 
INDIANA: scraggy... how close?
SCRAGGY: two miles.
INDIANA: where's the softest ground?...

CLARE: that's odd... wildebeests will not stampede unless provoked... 
SCRAGGY: this time, it is very close, indy. very close!

SCRAGGY: indy in trouble! we must help! 
CREW MEMBER: don't move. all of you. stay where you are.
CLARE: it was you. you're the reason the nazis found us. the crew member gives an evil smile.
BETSY: nobody move. or we'll go over.

INDIANA: call your mommy. 
INDIANA: this is jones. i've got your tank. it's all over, pal. you lose.

INDIANA: we've got to move. fast. ask him if he knows the way to the city from here. 
SCRAGGY: he do not know exact place... but it is somewhere over there.
INDIANA: a lotta' good that does us... it could take us months...years...to search everyone of those.
BETSY: maybe he knows what to do with this...
SCRAGGY: it is "magical mirror of sun wu kung"...
INDIANA: but whattayou do with it?
CLARE: "i come from land of city on clouds".

BETSY: i've been talking to dr. clarke about our problem. 
INDIANA: problem?... hey... what're you two doin' talkin' behind my back?...
CLARE: betsy needed help. i obliged.
INDIANA: since when did you become the female sigmund freud?
CLARE: since i received a masters degree in psychology.
SCRAGGY: we play again?
KEZURE: the game is not yet over, my friend.
SCRAGGY: oh?
KEZURE: you have lost. you must pay.
SCRAGGY: i don't have money...
KEZURE: no. no. money. rules of the game declare that i may choose a souvenir. a part of your body. any part i wish.
BETSY: dr. clarke says that you're not really in love with me. you're just trying to prove that you can still attract younger women. you're terrified of getting old.
INDIANA: that's crazy.
BETSY: that's what i told her. i told her that you really did love me.
INDIANA: well...that's...ah...well...
BETSY: you mean... she was right?...
INDIANA: no... i mean yes... i mean...
INDIANA: no, betsy. i don't love you.
BETSY: that's the first time you ever said it!
CLARE: there. there. he's a very disturbed man.
KEZURE: your eyes. they are a striking deep blue.
KEZURE: you owe me, old man.

INDIANA: how do i work the big gun? 
INDIANA: want your souvenir? start with his good arm.
GUTTERBUHG: w-w-wait!... please!...
GUTTERBUHG: there. that is what you want.

SCRAGGY: he thank us...for returning his son. 
BETSY: if the little guy's pushin' 200 years?... how old's his father?

SCRAGGY: his name "bohbala". he is ruler of city, faithful servant of his lord and master... sun wu-kung. he welcome us to stay. as long as we wish. 
VIOLENCE.: indiana clutches gutterbuhg by the throat.
INDIANA: bastard...
SCRAGGY: it is written... if ruler is defeated by greater power...he who possess that power... ...shall become ruler!
INDIANA: this is turning into one helluva nightmare.
GUTTERBUBG: one you will never awaken from, doctor jones.

GUTTERBUHG: your friend makes a wonderful interpreter. 
GUTTERBUHG: "the party will exist for one thousand years...and i wish to be alive for every year!" that is a favorite philosophy of our feuher.
INDIANA: your feuher's philosphies belong on a bathroom wall.
GUTTERBUHG: this is a very serious matter, doctor jones. it could save your life. i understand that somewhere in this city...there is a garden of... immortal peaches?... i want information about this garden... and i would greatly appreciate it, if you would share everything you know, with me.
INDIANA: i don't share anything with nazis.
GUTTERBUHG: very well. my friends will be here soon. they will rest...enjoy the pleasures of my newfound kingdom... then we shall exterminate these worthless people! destroy their city! and we will carry away all of its riches...in pieces.

GUTTERBUHG: doctor jones... those beasts are anxious to run wild. free. how long will you be able to ride... before they tear you in two? 
GUTTERBUHG: goodbye, doctor jones.
INDIANA: heil hitler!
GUTTERBUHG: heil hitler!

SCRAGGY: they want you to give speech. 
INDIANA: what?!?...
SCRAGGY: before battle... general always give speech to inspire troops.
INDIANA: general?... who the do they think i am... custer?...
INDIANA: geez... the only speeches i remember are from college...when i played ball...

INDIANA: men...and, ah...women... i...ah... we're about to face one of our toughest opponents... they've got size...hardware...and well, quite frankly...we're the underdogs... 
INDIANA: but...well, if it wasn't for the little guy...where would this country be?... i mean...i knew this little guy once ...a scrawny runt, with thick black glasses and about 300 different kinds of allergies... but this little kid had a dream... he wanted to be on the football team. well, all the big guys made his life miserable...always shoving his head in the drinking fountain...putting mustard in his pants...throwing me ...'er, him!...throwing him in the shower with all his clothes on... but that little guy didn't quit. be worked hard. never gave up. and in two years...he was the quarterback. star of the team. and you know why?... 'cause that little kid had somethin' that those big guys never heard of... he had heart! and nothin' can stop that! nothin'! now let's go out there and show 'em

CLARE: do exactly what i do. 
CLARE: i made the sound of a baby swandola bird, crying for help... the mother birds immediately reply to the cries ...angrily protecting their children, and murdering the baby's attackers.

BETSY: but... it's... it's the middle of the night... 
SCRAGGY: sun always shine in the garden of immortal peaches.
KEZURE: these are the peaches that make one ...forever young?...
CLARE: what does it say?...
CLARE: you, jones! why couldn't you be here to share this with me!

SUN WU KUNG: we cannot bury these men!... this is a garden of life... not of death!... 
BETSY: why's he speakin' in english?
CLARE: he is a heavenly being. according to legend, when a heavenly being speaks, men of all countries can understand him. we hear him in english...the pygmies hear him in their language.
SUN WU KUNG: return their souls!... i demand it!... return their souls!
INDIANA: what the hell's goin' on?
CLARE: i think there is someone you should meet...
INDIANA: you... you're... sun wu kung?...
SUN WU KUNG: you are... indiana jones?...
INDIANA: huh?... you know me?
SUN WU KUNG: i have watched you for many, many years...from the heavens. i was fascinated by your bravery...your passion...in searching for me.
INDIANA: well, i... thanks i'm very honored.
SUN WU KUNG: the honor is mine, doctor jones. you and your friends have saved my city from ruin. i would like to return the favor.
SUN WU KUNG: the golden hooped rod will be a faithful friend. it is capable of one hundred transformations...and will always remain by your side.
SUN WU KUNG: i will explore the heavens for another. surely, my search will be shorter and less hazardous than yours! indiana smiles.
SUN WU KUNG: with my city alive again...i will be able to return to the heavens. goodbye...my dear friends.

KEZURE: she is a wonderful treasure... 
INDIANA: we had a deal.
KEZURE: i have no deals with dead men.
INDIANA: son of a
KEZURE: i am an old pirate, doctor jones. do you suddenly expect me to treat you with kindness and fairness?... it is not my way of life!
KEZURE: kill them... but save their hair. i will make a coat out of it.

BETSY: i thought the peaches promised immortality...eternal youth?... 
INDIANA: the garden of immortal peaches promises life only to those who are pure in heart. kezure was evil. his heart was filled with greed.

INDIANA: where's betsy?... the boat leaves in five minutes... 
SCRAGGY: oh, indy! indy! i want to give you something for your journey!
SCRAGGY: take one drink before bed. it keep out all bad spirits.
INDIANA: thanks, scraggy...
BETSY: indy!...

INDIANA: where're your bags? 
BETSY: i'm not leaving.
INDIANA: huh?... but, you... you have to finish school.
BETSY: i'm staying on as clare's assistant.
INDIANA: but you're my assistant.
BETSY: not any more. i'm having my credits transfered.
INDIANA: why?...
BETSY: clare is a brilliant teacher.
INDIANA: so am i.
CLARE: yes, but i don't offer a course in seduction.
INDIANA: you stay out of this.
BETSY: indy... i thought you wanted me out of your life...
INDIANA: that was before i realized how gifted...how talented you are... i mean... i could really use you...
CLARE: especially aboard ship for three weeks. it gets terribly lonely.
INDIANA: i warned you...
BETSY: indy, i've learned a lot from you. but it's time i started concentrating on a career in anthropology...instead of romance.
INDIANA: you've certainly developed a mature attitude.
BETSY: thanks to you. you know... i always thought of you as my knight in shining armor...
INDIANA: really?
BETSY: but now, i'll think of you as the father i never had.
INDIANA: terrific.
CLARE: doctor jones...although your libido is questionable, your bravery and intelligence are exceptional. it has been an honor working with you.
INDIANA: why... thanks.
INDIANA: you know, clare...there's something...
CLARE: yes...
INDIANA: ...something i've been wanting to do...
CLARE: yes...
BETSY: sorry. guess i left her cage open... she followed us.

