speaker1: this guy's so tweaked, he probably thinks he can survive this without a scratch. 
speaker1: maybe not. by some estimates, 2% of the japanese population had a meth problem after the war: factory workers, soldiers, pilots. maybe that's why it took two bombs to get 'em to surrender. a nuclear blast is just a minor nuisance to a determined tweaker.

speaker1: it ain't right 
speaker2: you think?
speaker1: something's off.
speaker2: we can do better.
speaker3: so the alphabet, i mean look at it, there's 26 letters. why not 27 or 28 or 106? and the vowels: a, e, i, o, u.
speaker4: and sometimes y.
speaker3: what i'm saying is that i love it! it's great. i could go on all night about it. and he does. kujo let's take every letter individually. i mean, let's really break the mother's down.

speaker1: how the did we get this detail? 
speaker2: guess it's our turn.
speaker1: what time is it?
speaker2: twelve
speaker1: midnight?

speaker1: where to? 
speaker2: i know a guy.
speaker1: lead the way.
speaker2: nice day
speaker1: i hadn't noticed. i've seen you around. what's your name?
speaker2: jimmy. everyone calls me jimmy the finn.
speaker1: why's that?
speaker2: my features. they're finnish.
speaker1: you don't say.
speaker2: finland is a country.
speaker1: well, jimmy the finn, let's go score some gack.

speaker1: bobby? 
speaker2: shhh. bobby never takes his eyes off his arm. bobby they're coming.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: the spiders.
speaker2: aha! yeah!
speaker1: it's me ... jimmy bobby squints.
speaker2: jimmy, jimmy, jimmy, jimmy. rhymes with simmy.
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: what can i do for you?
speaker1: um, coupla' eight oughta do us.
speaker2: don't pay her no mind.
speaker1: hey man, take it easy.
speaker2: what?
speaker1: come on. ease off the girl.
speaker2: did you bring the plastic men?

speaker1: nah, we didn't bring 'em. that's just your good crank talking, brother. bobby tilts his head. danny we were hoping to catch a few ourselves if you'll hook us up. 
speaker2: you bring the plastic men?
speaker1: like i said.
speaker3: man. come on, bobby.
speaker2: bobby, bobby, bobby. rhymes with ...
speaker1: hobby?
speaker2: that's a good man. i like that.
speaker1: hey, bobby, look .. what you got going with your old lay, it's none of our business. we're just a couple of dope fiends trying to score.
speaker2: two eight balls?

speaker1: nice dealer you got there, jimmy. 
speaker2: oh ... that. ah, he was just juiced. he wouldn't have did nothin'

speaker1: danny on the phone. 
speaker2: c.i. number 678-43k-107 tanner and garcetti he hangs up.

speaker1: i've got a hot one. 
speaker2: you go, boy.
speaker1: if it's all the same to you, i'd rather not dish right here in the middle of crankville.
speaker2: feeling the paranoia tonight, are we?
speaker1: well, you know what they say, just because you're paranoid, doesn't mean everyone's not out to slice your off and shove 'em down your throat.

speaker1: you got a name? 
speaker2: bobby, rhymes with hobby.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: never mind. dude had a backfull of jailhouse tatts.

speaker1: no last name? 
speaker2: it was all pretty informal. didn't have a lot of time to exchange pleasantries.
speaker3: this the guy?
speaker2: it speaks!
speaker2: that's him. he's a lot prettier in person though.
speaker3: cut to the chase, flynne.
speaker2: dude is bugging. transparent spiders, plastic men - the whole nine yards.
speaker3: what's he holding?

speaker1: couple of eightballs, maybe more. 
speaker2: any company?
speaker1: alas, the lovely mrs. bobby was
speaker2: a kid? are you sure?
speaker1: yeah. pretty sure. oh yeah ... he had a spear gun, too.
speaker2: damn, flynne, you are one observant tweaker.
speaker1: somebody has to help you lazy bastards.
speaker2: danny, i'm touched.
speaker1: don't be. i'm worried about the kid.
speaker3: then why didn't you help the kid when you were there?
speaker1: hey, you want me to do all your work for you, numbnuts?
speaker3: i'll tell you why you didn't help - because you're a chickenshit tweaking snitch. you're a bottom feader, flynne.
speaker1: garcetti, you're teeth, they're perfect. garcetti lets danny go. stomps off.
speaker1: you're welcome.

speaker1: the label is in chinese. danny ... some chinese looking out here. no reaction. danny i'll just leave it by the door here. i'm going now! 
speaker2: i was rude. i'm sorry. i'm kinda new around here.
speaker3: you did the right thing. what is this stuff anyway?
speaker2: fermented soybean curd.
speaker3: yummy.
speaker2: colette aragon. thank you, danny.

speaker1: my name is tom van allen i play the trumpet. 
speaker2: danny

speaker1: that's so ... 
speaker2: melancholy?
speaker1: yes, it hurts my heart. what a beautiful composition.
speaker3: and the performance?
speaker1: a virtuoso rendition. tom van allen is nothing short of dazzling in his interpretation of miles davis' haunting, moody piece.
speaker3: thank you. thank you very much.
speaker1: and he has a really hot with hardly any hair on it.
speaker3: again, i thank you.
speaker1: i was talking about miles.
speaker3: you, madam, are a heartless wench.
speaker1: and you've got wiener breath.
speaker3: really?
speaker1: it's that disgusting hot dog you had for lunch. danny starts kissing her over and over again.
speaker1: tom! gross!
speaker3: you know how i make that song melancholy when i play it? i think of what my life would be like without you.
speaker1: tom, let's spend the night here.
speaker3: there's no motels around here.
speaker1: no. right here on the beach. come on. let's do it.

speaker1: come on, liz. we'll get eaten alive. 
speaker2: no ... we'll stay.
speaker3: the trumpet goes back in the case. the lid is closed. the case goes back in the box. the neatly folded clothes are laid on top. the box goes back to the shelf.

speaker1: danny watching silently. 
speaker2: you think i'm a judas?
speaker3: hard to compare the people you're taking down with the lord.
speaker2: garcetti thinks i'm a pile of
speaker3: garcetti thinks everything is he doesn't even like dolphins. danny smiles. tanner i'm serious. he hates 'em. you ever hear of anyone who didn't like dolphins?
speaker2: thanks for not judging me.
speaker3: it's not my place.
speaker2: don't you wonder why i do it?
speaker3: the money? the drugs? keeping yourself out of jail? i know the drill.
speaker2: you don't find that repugnant?
speaker3: just the way the world works. look, as far as tweakers go, you aren't a bad guy. you never hurt anyone but yourself as far as i know.
speaker2: tell that to bobby ... and his wife and kid.
speaker3: bobby laid his own tracks. he could have gone quietly but he played the hard-ass con till the end. and as far as i'm concerned, he wife and kid are a of a lot better off without him. now take the money. danny stuffs the money into his jacket. tanner one think i do want to know is how the did you get yourself into this position to start with? you seem like a smart enough guy.
speaker2: it's a long story. maybe i'll tell you all about it some day.
speaker3: i was getting to it.
speaker2: tell me what?
speaker4: i'll tell him.
speaker2: tell me what?
speaker4: danny, it's really pains me to have to tell you this, but do you remember domingo, that you helped us put away for trafficking a few months back?
speaker2: yeah. what about him?
speaker4: turns out he's connected.
speaker2: to who?
speaker4: the mexicali boys
speaker2: and what does this have to do with me?
speaker4: he knows somebody ratted him.
speaker2: what?!
speaker4: and he's making a lot of noise about having his homies hang a colombian necktie on whoever it was. garcetti leans in close garcetti you know that thing where they slit your throat and pull your tongue out of the hole.
speaker2: shut up, garcetti!
speaker2: if he finds out it's me, i'm a dead man.
speaker3: danny, he isn't gonna find out it's you. domingo was a slinger, he must have sold to hundreds of different people. danny paces back and forth. tanner and if you're that worried about it, maybe you ought to get out of town.
speaker2: how the am i gonna do that? you guys are still stringing me a long on that possession charge.
speaker4: you mean that hasn't been cleared up yet?
speaker2: you, garcetti. i been at this for almost a year. i've done everything you guys have asked of me.
speaker4: anyone ever ask you to be such a disrespectful smart-ass all the time?
speaker3: look, we'll talk to the a.d.a.
speaker2: when?
speaker3: soon. i promise. we'll get the charges dropped and you can disappear. in the mean time, trust me, he has no idea that you ratted him out.

speaker1: you like that? 
speaker2: who wouldn't?
speaker1: first rate, ain't it?
speaker2: it's downright classy is what it is.
speaker1: get in, hoss. we'll talk it over.
speaker3: ... move back over to the gravestone.

speaker1: jimmy, you don't look so hot. 
speaker2: i'm hurting.
speaker1: you on a roll?
speaker2: was. i'm on the ghost train right now, man. you got anything for me?
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: why does it have to feel so bad?
speaker1: you're brain is in reverse mode ... cutting off your supply of dopamine. here. have a beer.
speaker2: oh yeah. man, danny, how do you keep your together so tight?
speaker1: that's a good one.
speaker2: i'm serious, dude. you always seem to be on top of things, even when you're tweakin'.
speaker1: i guess there's just no substitute for good genes.
speaker2: yeah, it's a pity. truly a pity. danny smiles at jimmy's choice of words. jimmy he was a good supplier. you think maybe there's any drugs left in his room? you know, like hidden?
speaker1: i kind of doubt it, jimmy.
speaker2: so, why'd you want to see me?
speaker1: business. i need to leave town and i find myself in dire need of some cash.
speaker2: see that? that's just what i'm talking about.
speaker1: what?
speaker2: you. you're smooth. you use words like dire and you got language skills, man.
speaker1: don't get carried away.
speaker2: i find myself in dire need of some cash. jimmy shakes his head in wonder.
speaker1: you remember that guy you told me about ... said he could handle a big hook-up?
speaker2: yeah, pooh-bear. dude is a big-time cook. i'm talking dire.
speaker1: i know a buyer. guy's looking for a quarter's worth.
speaker2: a quarter? danny that ain't even worth ...
speaker1: a quarter of a million, jimmy.
speaker2: fuuuuuck
speaker1: can your man handle that?
speaker2: i think so. i mean, we'd have to talk to him.
speaker1: can you set that up?
speaker2: sure. jimmy what's left of his beer down. jimmy what's in it for us?
speaker1: i'm getting a 10% finder's fee from my man if i can get the right price.
speaker2: 10%. that's ...
speaker1: 25 grand. you introduce me to your boy, i'll cut you five grand out of my take. that's all you gotta do, just get me in the door.

speaker1: jimmy, where do you find these people? 
speaker2: the del ammo mall mostly.
speaker2: you wanna score some go-fast?
speaker1: not tonight.
speaker2: hey, why do you need a gun and a vest anyway?
speaker1: personal protection. it's a dangerous world we live in, jimmy, a very dangerous world.
speaker3: you mad me,
speaker1: heavens no. i was just admiring your boots.
speaker1: did you purchase them locally?

speaker1: you know, jimmy, you might as well put a sign on the back of this thing asking the cops to pull you over. 
speaker2: you mean, like to throw 'em off?
speaker1: yeah, that's what i mean. where the does this guy live anyway?
speaker2: palmdale
speaker1: why do they call him pooh-bear?
speaker2: i think on account of his nose.
speaker1: you're going to have to explain that one.
speaker2: he doesn't have one.
speaker1: you're going to have to give me a little more than that, jimmy.
speaker2: well, you know how winnie the pooh always got his nose stuck in the honey jar? well, pooh-bear snorted so much crank, they had to cut his nose off. he's got a plastic one though. danny wonders what he's getting himself into. jimmy you know, they say he hasn't slept in over a year.
speaker1: you ever see queen elizabeth sleep?
speaker2: no you think she's a tweaker?

speaker1: okay, here we go gentlemen ... 
speaker2: ready.
speaker1: oswald?
speaker3: roger that.
speaker1: grassy knoll?
speaker4: ready
speaker1: third shooter?
speaker5: it's a go.
speaker1: president kennedy waving to the crowd, his lovely wife looking
speaker6: - cool. - yeah. interesting.
speaker1: i'm gonna get this developed and send it to the warren commission.
speaker7: um, i think the warren commission has been closed for a while.
speaker1: no it. i'll send it to oliver stone then.
speaker3: pooh-bear! we got a problem.
speaker1: so, danny, jimmy tells me you have a proposition for me.
speaker7: yeah, i uh, have a buyer who's looking for about a quarter's worth.
speaker1: crank or glass?
speaker7: the good stuff. can you handle that?
speaker1: i'm sorry. would you like a taste?
speaker7: no, i'm good.
speaker1: i insist. it's delicious. just a taste.
speaker7: not bad.
speaker1: secret recipe.
speaker7: can we talk price?
speaker1: make me an offer.
speaker7: i don't know, 14,000 a kilo?
speaker1: i deal in u.s. pounds, friend. none of that metric for me.
speaker7: okay ... how about um .. 6,000 a ounce.
speaker1: hey, okay.
speaker7: you're serious?
speaker1: anything for a dear friend.
speaker7: but i just met you.
speaker1: but you're a friend of jimmy's. i think of you as a brother already.
speaker7: so that's 40 lbs. at 6 a pound then?
speaker1: if you say so.
speaker7: pooh-bear, i don't mean to be rude, but i get the feeling you aren't taking me seriously.
speaker1: maybe you're the one who isn't taking me seriously.
speaker7: why do you say that?
speaker1: i welcome you here with open arms and you got the nerve to low-ball me like some slick used car salesman.
speaker7: hey, i was just trying to ...
speaker1: i want to tell you about the last guy who tried to jam me up on a deal.
speaker7: hey, i don't play that.
speaker1: i'm sure you don't. at least i'm sure you think you don't. anyway, i want to tell you. it's a good story, guaranteed to break the ice at a party. pooh-bear leans back, grinning broadly pooh-bear dude shorted me eleven dollar ... thought i wouldn't count it till i got home. wrong. you know what i did? i clamped his head in a vice.
speaker1: you should have heard him howling. back to present: pooh-bear lights a cigarette
speaker1: then i took a saws all and i cut his skull open
speaker1: you know, those saws all really do cut through everything.
speaker7: look, you don't have to ... pooh-bear so i'm standing there looking at this dude's brain and i'm thinking to myself, you know, this guy doesn't really need this thing. i mean, anyone stupid enough to jam me up doesn't really use their brain to begin with. you know what i'm saying? so i took it.
speaker1: 10,000 a pound danny decides to nerve it out
speaker7: now you're insulting me. nice talking business with you.
speaker1: 9,000. take it or leave it.
speaker7: i'll leave it. eight is as high as i'll go. see ya'.
speaker1: all right, all right. don't get your knickers in a knot. i can live with eight. pooh-bear stands up. pooh-bear you got a deal.
speaker1: damn, danny, you got some nerve. pooh-bear respects that. oh, by the way ...
speaker1: hmm. good price.
speaker8: you want a hit?
speaker7: no. i'm good.
speaker8: can i ask you something?
speaker7: sure, jimmy.
speaker8: what does j.f.k. stand for?
speaker7: john fitzgerald kennedy.
speaker8: was he the president?
speaker7: yes, jimmy jimmy drives for a while, then ...
speaker8: danny?
speaker7: yes, jimmy.
speaker8: thanks for not laughing at me.

speaker1: danny, listen up. here's the deal ... my wife's pimp knows a guy who works at cedars sinai medical lab. they're getting a very special delivery a week from this friday. 
speaker2: what is it, drugs?
speaker1: better than drugs.
speaker1: bob hope's stool specimen we're gonna boost it.
speaker3: why in name would we want to do that?
speaker1: so we can sell it.
speaker3: to who?
speaker1: i don't know. a collector. danny, it's bob hope.
speaker4: he is a national treasure.
speaker1: check it out. this is the lab.

speaker1: what is that? 
speaker2: it's the lab.
speaker1: i mean what kind of drink?
speaker2: cuba libre
speaker3: what is that? rum and coke?
speaker2: don't worry about it.
speaker3: i just want to be straight on the details. can i taste it?
speaker2: no, you can't taste it. it's the lab! now shut up.
speaker1: you should use something smaller. he's the same size as the office. it doesn't ring true.
speaker4: and the colored girls sing doot-de-doot ....

speaker1: jimmy, you at the alpha team. 
speaker2: i thought you were done.
speaker3: i said hey sugar, take a walk on the wild side ... kujo now here's the beautiful part. the getaway. both teams will rappel right down the center of the stairwell, change clothes and walk right out the front door like nothing happened.

speaker1: so what's it gonna be, danny boy? you in or out? 
speaker2: i'm afraid i'm gonna have to pass on this one, boys.
speaker2: you okay? she nods. danny well...good night then. danny starts to enter again. stops again. danny why are you out here?
speaker3: quincey, my boyfriend... he kicked me out.
speaker2: look...i'd like to help you out ... but i really don't want to get involved.
speaker3: i understand. thanks anyway.

speaker1: thanks. she dabs at her eyes. colette i'm so embarrassed. 
speaker2: don't be.
speaker1: i look like a raccoon.
speaker2: i was thinking alice cooper.
speaker1: oh
speaker2: come on, cheer up. it could be worse.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: i don't know .... you could be staking your financial future on stealing bob hope's stool specimen. she laughs danny see. no matter how bad things are, there's always someone a little worse off.
speaker1: what about the guy on the very bottom?
speaker2: leave me out of this.
speaker1: that bad, huh?
speaker2: nevertheless, i still try to see the glass as half-full. he takes a sip. danny problem is, it's usually half-full of something that tastes a lot like urine.
speaker1: could be worse. oh sorry, forgot who i was talking to.
speaker2: ouch.
speaker1: don't worry, he's probably passed out with his head in the toilet by now.
speaker2: this man sounds like a real catch.
speaker1: oh, he's a keeper all right.
speaker2: colette ...
speaker1: what?
speaker2: nothing.
speaker1: go ahead.
speaker2: look, it's really none of my business but why don't you just dump this guy?
speaker1: it's not that easy.
speaker2: don't tell me, down deep he's really not a bad person and you don't want to see him get hurt.
speaker1: who the are you, dr. joyce brothers? i hate the son-of-a-bitch.
speaker2: then leave.
speaker1: i can't.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: you don't understand.
speaker2: there's nothing to understand. the guy is a pig.
speaker1: i can't leave.
speaker2: you get off on abuse or something?
speaker1: you.
speaker2: then why don't you leave? just give me one good reason.
speaker1: because he'll kill me. the waitress and cook look up. colette is that simple enough for you?
speaker2: why don't you call the cops?
speaker1: why? they don't hold him for more than a day or two.
speaker2: that's long enough to get out of town.
speaker1: i can't. i've got a kid. she lives with my parents. quincey knows where they live.
speaker2: then make sure he gets put away for longer.
speaker1: how?
speaker2: i don't know. let me think about it.

speaker1: i wanna do a small buy first. ten thousand. we'll see how it goes. 
speaker2: why? the guys is ready to deal now.
speaker1: because i don't know him and i don't really know you, partner.
speaker2: now that's down-right insulting.
speaker1: i'll have to live with that. my money my risk, my rules.

speaker1: i guess i don't have a of a lot of choice. 
speaker2: get used to it. you're in a very tenuous position on the food chain, hoss.
speaker3: you thinking what i'm thinking?
speaker4: yeah. this could be the one we're looking for.

speaker1: hold it right there, flynne. 
speaker2: you almost gave me a heart attack! danny secretly pockets the bundle of cash.
speaker2: what the are you doing here?
speaker1: question is, what are you doing here?
speaker2: i was trying to score some dope.
speaker1: cut the flynne.
speaker2: someone want to tell me what the is going on here?
speaker1: okay, asshole, you wanna play, we'll play.
speaker2: what did i do?!
speaker3: the punches have absolutely no effect.
speaker1: you think this is funny
speaker2: i can't help it, tanner, you hit like a girl.
speaker2: garcetti, do something.
speaker4: we know what's going on.
speaker2: i still don't know what you're talking about.
speaker4: okay, let me help you. you're setting up a deal with a chinese redneck. quarter of a million. garcetti holds up a tap. garcetti we just listened to the whole thing. danny gaped-mouthed. he can't believe it. garcetti somebody tipped up, dipshit.
speaker2: jimmy?
speaker4: who the is jimmy?
speaker2: he's the only one i told.
speaker4: and he probably only told two people and they probably only told four people and on and one. you know better than to tell a secret to a tweaker, flynne. might just as well broadcast it on the evening news.

speaker1: i met the guy at a party. he said he wanted to do a biggie. he's new in town so i offered my services. 
speaker2: this have a name?
speaker1: bubba. tanner rolls his eyes. danny i swear. that's all he gave me. hell, i didn't give him my real name either he figured the less we know about each other, the better.
speaker2: you better not be blowing smoke up my ass, flynne.
speaker1: after that ass-whipping you gave me?
speaker3: what's on the other end of this thing?
speaker1: now that i can help you with. nasty boy ... goes by the name of pooh-bear. he's a chef. check with palmdale p.d. i'm sure they're keeping box scores on the guy.
speaker3: sounds like you hooked up with some fine citizens, flynne.
speaker1: oh they're all that and the proverbial bag of chips.
speaker2: what're your taking down?
speaker1: standard vig. minus five for a certain blabber-mouth moron by the name of jimmy the finn, who's living proof that natural selection is a flawed theory.
speaker2: did you really think you were slick enough to pull this off?
speaker1: look man, i just wanted to make some dough and disappear. i didn't want to wait around for domingo to figure out who doubled back on him. danny holds his hands up danny but now i've seen the error of my ways. i'll just walk away ... call the whole deal off.
speaker3: wrong.
speaker1: you mean you want me to roll on these guys? their silence is answer enough. danny no. no way. these guys catch a whiff and i'm a bag of bandini.
speaker2: you've got no choice.
speaker1: whata you mean i've got no choice?
speaker2: well, if you'd rather do a stretch in la casa grande ...
speaker1: for that old possession charge?
speaker2: no. you just handed us a new one. we can go federal on your right now: ongoing criminal conspiracy. intent to buy and distribute $250,000 worth of crank. what's the mandatory on that, al?
speaker3: dime, minimum.
speaker2: and believe me, word will get out that you're a pro rat.
speaker3: that's not good in prison. it's just not good.

speaker1: what's that smell? 
speaker2: that would be me.
speaker1: what'd you do, your pants?
speaker2: hell, yes! what the do you expect zapping mr. johnson with that crackler?
speaker1: who'd have thought it? danny "chickenshit" flynne trying to go large right under our noses.
speaker2: lay off, garcetti. i'm not in the mood.
speaker1: no. you've got me all wrong. i mean, in you own pussified way, you actually got some nuts in your little sack.
speaker3: he's a liar.
speaker2: news-flash, tanner. i'm a rat.
speaker3: you think you're so smart, don't you?

speaker1: why didn't you just ask for directions back there? 
speaker2: come on, where's your pioneer spirit?
speaker1: you mean like the donner party?
speaker2: hey, do you think you could eat me if you had to? and if so, which part do you think you would find the most delicious?
speaker1: tom, quit around.
speaker2: okay, okay. there's a house up there. i'll go ask for directions.

speaker1: you think that's a good idea? 
speaker2: what do you mean?
speaker1: look at that place. it's creepy.
speaker2: first you want me to ask for directions, then you don't. which is it?
speaker1: i wanted you to ask back there. you know, before you got us lost.
speaker2: just no pleasing you, is there?
speaker1: just admit you're wrong.
speaker2: we all know how much you like hearing that. okay, liz, i was wrong.
speaker1: quit feeling sorry for yourself, tom.
speaker2: no. you know what gets old? being reminded what a loser you are every time you screw up.
speaker1: here it comes, poor tom.
speaker2: but that's okay, liz, you're the one with the steady job, you pay all the bills. i'm just an unemployed musician. you have every right.
speaker1: that is so unfair.
speaker2: my sentiments exactly.
speaker1: why are you doing this? danny doesn't answer. liz i never once asked you to stop playing. i wouldn't dream of it. so don't take your low self-esteem out on me.
speaker1: ... tom ... screw it. tell me when you're ready to apologize.

speaker1: this seat taken? 
speaker2: oh. hi.
speaker1: what happened to your eye?

speaker1: don't worry. he's out of town. 
speaker2: how far out of town?
speaker1: trust me. we're safe.
speaker2: miles davis. "all blues."
speaker1: never heard of him.
speaker2: just a fucked-up guy who played beautiful music.
speaker1: like you?
speaker2: nah. i'm strictly minor league... except for the fucked-up part.
speaker2: dude played his soul right out the end of the horn. no false notes.
speaker1: and you admire that?
speaker2: it's the only way to play.
speaker1: is that how you play?
speaker2: i try.
speaker1: no false notes?
speaker1: no deep dark secrets?
speaker2: : what are you up to?
speaker1: nothing.
speaker2: what do you want from me, colette?
speaker1: i don't want anything. why are you so suspicious?
speaker2: it gets me through the day.
speaker1: you really need to lighten up. she puts her hand on his leg. colette just relax.
speaker2: look, i can't help you with quincey if that's what you're after.
speaker1: this has nothing to do with him.
speaker2: so you're just attracted to me, is that it?
speaker1: yes. why do you find that so hard to believe?
speaker2: how much time do you have?
speaker1: what is wrong with you?
speaker2: how much time do you have?
speaker1: you've got a comeback for everything, don't you, danny? you use 'em like some sort of shield.
speaker2: who the are you? dr. joyce brothers?
speaker1: there you go again. you're nothing but false notes.
speaker2: you don't like the tune, find another station.
speaker1: what are you hiding, danny?
speaker2: therapy session is over.
speaker1: you think you're the only one down here with a sad story?
speaker2: no. but i'm the only one with my sad story. and that's how it's gonna stay.

speaker1: excuse me? 
speaker2: several possession charges, but nothing major.
speaker1: why doesn't palmdale p.d. just raid the guy?
speaker2: they have. but they never found a lab.
speaker3: that's because he doesn't have one.
speaker1: whata you mean? he told me -
speaker3: guy scores dope and dollar from ripping off other drug dealers. as least that's what the word is.
speaker1: what's to stop him from just ripping me off then?
speaker3: that's probably what he would have done if we hadn't found out about your get-rich-quick scheme.
speaker2: you're lucky, flynne.
speaker1: funny, i don't feel lucky.
speaker2: we're coordinating with palmdale p.d..
speaker1: what if he caps me before you can make a move?
speaker3: golly, i hadn't thought of that.
speaker2: don't we always take good care of you?
speaker1: speaking of which ... you run that license plate for me?
speaker2: you mean the menacing red car?
speaker1: what? is it bad?
speaker3: i'm afraid so, danny.
speaker1: who is it?
speaker2: brace yourself.
speaker1: come on! who is it? domingo's boys?
speaker2: worse. much worse. a teacher.
speaker3: car is registered to a mrs. nancy plummer.
speaker2: she's 57 and she's been teaching third grade for the last 33 years.
speaker3: now that's scary!
speaker2: you're paranoid, flynne. i think that crank is finally starting to get the best of you.
speaker2: when is the deal going down?
speaker1: i'm making the small buy tonight ... if i don't get beaten to death with a wheelchair or something. if everyone is happy, we'll do the big deal later in the week.
speaker4: you sure you don't want me to go with you? danny burns rubber.

speaker1: pooh-bear, my man. what's up? 
speaker2: he's blue.
speaker3: comin' down from a 10 day ride.
speaker1: you want to do this some other time?
speaker4: pull your pants down.
speaker1: i'm sorry?
speaker4: pull your pants down.
speaker1: come on, guys ...
speaker4: big bill.
speaker3: argh, matie. i'm a pirate.
speaker4: little bill

speaker1: pooh-bear. come on, man. what is this? it's me, danny. i thought we had a deal. 
speaker2: big bill

speaker1: captain steubing thinks you might work for the police. 
speaker2: what?!
speaker1: don't address me. i didn't make the accusation.
speaker2: please .. i don't know what you're ...
speaker1: uh-uh-uh ...
speaker2: christ. um ... i'm not .. captain steubing. i'm not working for the cops.
speaker1: he don't believe you. big bill.
speaker3: drop your package in the cage.
speaker2: my what?
speaker3: put your pee-pee through the hole.
speaker2: this is crazy!
speaker3: yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.
speaker2: oh ... oh ...
speaker1: shoot him.
speaker2: okay! okay!
speaker1: now get talkin'
speaker2: i didn't do anything! i swear to
speaker1: you got something to tell captain steubing, you'd better do it now.
speaker4: that's a pack of discharge.
speaker2: it's true. jimmy saw him flashing a pimp role at a bar the other night ... said he was dissin' your in front of one of your customers. pooh-bear rises slowly. approaches the triumvirate. danny keeps one eye on ...
speaker1: man'll say a lot of thing when he's sporting weasel food for a pecker.
speaker4: straight.
speaker1: least i can do is check it out though.
speaker2: can i pull my out now? pooh-bear limply aims the .45 at little bill. pooh-bear big bill
speaker2: big bill pats little bill down.
speaker4: go ahead. i got nothing to hide.
speaker2: can i pull my out?
speaker3: he's clean.
speaker4: what?

speaker1: i ought to just call this whole thing off right now. 
speaker2: don't do that. please. or i'll kill you. please, danny.
speaker1: what the was that? who told you i was five-0?
speaker2: no one. it was just a test. i need to be sure of who i'm dealing with from time-to-time. pooh-bear nudges the baggie towards danny. pooh-bear take it easy. you passed.
speaker1: did it ever occur to you that someone might cop to something they didn't do rather than have their chewed off by a rabid weasel?
speaker2: i'll keep that in mind.

speaker1: we're in business. 
speaker2: good work, flynne. you're a first-rate rat.
speaker3: that's real sweet, garcetti. thanks.
speaker1: we got the 411 on your good old boy.
speaker3: murder. beautiful.

speaker1: you know, i'm starting to think i'd rather take my chances with domingo than go through any more of this 
speaker2: didn't you hear? domingo's dead.
speaker3: took a pig-slicker to the heart.
speaker1: 
speaker3: i thought you'd be happy.
speaker1: yeah.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: it's tom.

speaker1: all right, nancy, how'd you track me down? 
speaker2: billy sutcliffe said he saw you at a bar down in gardena a few weeks ago. said you looked so bad, he barely recognized you. nancy pours the coffee. nancy billy's a cop now, you know.
speaker3: highway patrol.
speaker2: he said you were ... the people you were with ... well ...
speaker3: said you were a drug addict.
speaker1: maybe i should just go.
speaker2: no. we want to help you, tom. danny stays put. nancy i know everyone deals with grief in their own way. i know how hard it is to find closure.
speaker1: closure? how do you find closure when her killers are still running around out there?
speaker2: i found forgiveness in my heart for the people who killed my daughter. i gave my grief to christ.
speaker1: is that what you want me to do? put it all on jesus? let him sort it out in the afterlife?
speaker2: you've got to deal with this sooner or later, tom. you can't keep hiding.
speaker1: maybe i am dealing with it.
speaker2: i know it's not my place to pass judgement on you but ...
speaker1: then why don't i see any pictures of me up there?
speaker3: that was my idea.
speaker1: you never did like me much, did you verne? and you can't stand it that i walked out of there alive and liz didn't. you think i'm a coward, don't you? verne's silence is answer enough. danny i don't blame you for hating me. at least i understand that. but forgiving the butchers who killed liz well i'm having some trouble with that one.
speaker2: love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, a persecute you.
speaker1: i'm genuinely happy that you found some peace, nancy. but you can't forgive for liz. no one can. and you can't forgive for me.
speaker2: your hatred makes them stronger and you weaker.
speaker1: i don't buy that. there's a place for hatred.
speaker2: it's not too late to show her you're sorry.
speaker1: how?
speaker3: by not disgracing her memory!
speaker1: what does that mean?
speaker3: you might as well be spitting on her grave every time you put drugs up your nose. or did you just conveniently forget that it was drug dealers who killed my daughter?
speaker1: you don't understand.
speaker3: understand what?
speaker1: nothing. it's ... it's complicated. i just want you to know ... i'm not what you think i am.

speaker1: who is it? 
speaker2: it's me.
speaker1: i'm kind of busy.
speaker2: please open the door, danny.

speaker1: oh he lets her come in. colette looks away. danny colette ... you've gotta leave. 
speaker2: we been through that.
speaker1: what about a battered woman's shelter? you can move you kid in with you.
speaker2: i need my paycheck.
speaker1: you can still work.
speaker2: he knows where i work.
speaker1: find a new job.
speaker2: it's not that easy. i just got a raise. i need the money.
speaker1: you always been this stubborn?
speaker2: from day one. i was a breach birth. they tried for hours to turn my little around.
speaker1: first into the world.
speaker2: i been that way ever since.
speaker3: ouch.
speaker2: can we try that again?
speaker1: i can't. colette goes to touch him. he pulls away. danny i can't.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: i just can't. okay?
speaker2: what's wrong, danny?
speaker1: look, maybe you oughta' leave.
speaker2: no. i want to know what the is going on.
speaker1: i can't tell you.
speaker2: there's someone else, isn't there?
speaker1: yes.
speaker1: i'm so tired of lying.

speaker1: what you want to do is go back the way you came and make a left at the bottom. it'll take you right to the highway. 
speaker2: that's it?
speaker1: are you australian?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good. i hate australians.
speaker2: you got a bathroom i can use before we hit the road?
speaker1: yeah? first door on the right. it ain't that dirty. just kinda' filthy is all.
speaker2: you mind?
speaker1: no, i don't mind. that's how come i told you about it.
speaker2: i was talking to my wife.
speaker3: try to make it fast.
speaker1: you know. this and that.
speaker1: skeeters. they're bad up here.

speaker1: let's go! 
speaker2: listening.

speaker1: she died knowing that i was a coward... 
speaker2: there was nothing you could have done.
speaker1: no, you're wrong, i tried to tell myself the same thing but i could have gotten up. i could have done something.
speaker3: they would have killed you too.
speaker1: nothing could be worse then this slow death i'm living now.
speaker1: colette...i want to help you, with quincey.
speaker3: no danny, don't- danny but you gotta be serious about it.
speaker3: really, i don't want to.
speaker1: i want to do this for you. i want to do something good for a change.
speaker3: what is it?
speaker1: never mind. just do what i say. he holds out the baggie. colette backs away.
speaker3: i don't want to.
speaker1: i'm offering you the chance to take care of your problems. take it. don't make the same mistake i did, colette. do something while you have a chance. do it for your daughter before something happens. believe me, you don't want to live with this burden. he helds the baggie out again. colette reluctantly takes it from him. danny tommorrow night, when he is asleep. i want you to beep me at this number.
speaker1: will you do that? then i want you to get out of the room.
speaker3: why?
speaker1: don't worry about it. just go across the street and watch. you'll know when it's safe to go back.
speaker1: just do it. all your problems with quincey will be taken care of.

speaker1: what's this? 
speaker2: tem thousand dollars. everything i could spare. it's for you.
speaker1: but why? you only owe me five. and
speaker2: you aren't coming with me. jimmy looks hurt. danny i need you to do me a favor instead.
speaker1: okay
speaker2: wait till i tell you what it is.
speaker1: it don't matter. i'll do it. and you sure as don't have to pay me.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: you're my best friend, man. i'd do anything for you.
speaker2: jimmy, look, there's something i have to tell you.
speaker1: hey, check it out...
speaker2: what the is that?

speaker1: it's you! i didn't have a picture or nothin' so i had to describe you to the guy. not bad though, huh? jimmy sits there, admiring the tattoo. danny stares at jimmy with pity. danny i really have to tell you something. 
speaker1: what?
speaker2: i'm not a tweaker. i don't use drugs. i never had. danny is deadpan. jimmy starts laughing danny i'm not joking.
speaker1: but...i've seen you.
speaker2: when? when did you ever see me use?
speaker1: this isn't like that queen elizabeth question, is it?
speaker2: you ever notice how i always showed up, in the middle of a binge? left before it was over? how i sneak away for cap-naps? how when the crank came around to me, i always said i'd just done one? jimmy slack-jawed. danny you asked me how i always keep my together. well, that's how.
speaker1: no one ever noticed?
speaker2: are you kidding me? a bunch of amped -out tweakers? it was easy.
speaker1: but... why? why would you pretend?
speaker2: i can't tell you.
speaker1: you don't trust me?
speaker2: i don't trust anybody.
speaker1: and you want me to do you some big favor? danny it's cool. i understand danny gets up to leave.
speaker1: wait if you don't trust me, why did you tell me that stuff about not using drugs?
speaker2: because i don't want to see you end up like kujo and those other losers. i thought that maybe if you knew that i didn't use, you might see it in yourself to go clear.

speaker1: you mad at me, jimmy? 
speaker2: i don't know... a little. i wish you would have let me in on it from the beginning.
speaker1: i'm sorry. i couldn't.
speaker1: you know you can get that tattoo removed, don't you. jimmy rubs his arm where the tattoo is.
speaker2: nah... i want to keep it. maybe i can use it for like, inspiration ...you know...like when i detox?
speaker1: good for you jimmy.
speaker1: i really want you to take this.
speaker2: wouldn't be a favor if you were paying me. i'll just take my five when the deal is done.
speaker1: you're a good man. jimmy the finn.

speaker1: tanner and garcetti listening through earpieces. 
speaker2: yeah.

speaker1: everything go? 
speaker2: yeah.
speaker1: just make sure you come alone. this guy won't like any surprises
speaker2: i ain't a
speaker1: i'll see you tonight. bubba hangs up.
speaker3: man of few words.
speaker4: nervous?
speaker1: with you clowns watching my back? what do you think?
speaker4: just make sure you hit the floor when we come in. it could get ugly in there.
speaker3: yeah, i'd hate to shoot you by accident. danny gets out of the car. shuts the door.

speaker1: he's coming in. 
speaker2: how'd it go?
speaker3: you tell me.
speaker4: you ready to go meet the team?

speaker1: for those of you who don't know this is tom van allen... a.k.a. danny flynne. danny looks self-conscious. trahn about a year and half ago, mr. van allen's wife was murdered at a meth lab out near the salton sea. no one was ever apprehended for the crime but local authorities have always assumed it was a hit and grab perpetrated by rival drug dealers. that is, until tom here took it upon himself to conduct a one-man undercover operation at great risk to his own personal safety. 
speaker2: he's a civilian? how the did you pull this off?
speaker3: i played the long shot. just got lucky.

speaker1: how about the car? the model? danny shakes his head. bookman was it a truck? s.u.v.? sedan? 
speaker2: all i saw was the headlights. the high beams were on.
speaker1: not even a guess?
speaker2: yeah, but he was in silhouette.
speaker1: how about in the house?
speaker2: they were wearing ski masks. i told you all of this.
speaker1: did you see his hair color?
speaker2: no, why?
speaker1: forensics found this on your wife.

speaker1: what is it? 
speaker2: nothing, i'm trying to remember... danny feigns frustration. danny i'm sorry... i didn't see his hair color... i'm sure of it.

speaker1: why didn't you tell him? 
speaker2: because i wanted to find them myself i wanted to kill them.

speaker1: i knew that if these were the guys i was looking for, i'd have to set up a deal so sweet, they wouldn't be able to walk away from it. 
speaker2: that's when he called me. he told me his story and he pitched me a plan.
speaker1: these guys are smart. i knew they wouldn't hit a deal unless they knew all the players. i needed a big buyer.

speaker1: we had one of our c.i.'s call tanner and garcetti with an "anonymous" tip about the deal. 
speaker2: this could be the one we're looking for.

speaker1: ...i dumped a dummy file into the system. they took the bait and we were off to the races. 
speaker2: how sure are you that you're not chasing two good cops? i mean all you've really got is one red hair. that's still your only evidence.
speaker3: not anymore. we tapped these guys' phones and computers at gardena p.d. tanner and garcetti didn't report on this deal. not a peep. they haven't coordinated with palmdale p.d. they're keeping it off the books. it looks like we've got the right guys. we'll find out for sure tonight.

speaker1: how you holding up? 
speaker2: i'm fine. little nervous...little disappointed that i didn't finish this myself.
speaker1: hey, you did the right thing. you wouldn't have stood a chance against these boys by yourself. they have eaten your alive.
speaker2: oh
speaker1: what?
speaker2: can you do me a favor? this girl i know, her boyfriend's a real piece of shit-dude's really jamming her up. i promised her i'd try to help. danny pockets the pager. danny could you call gardena p.d. tell 'em you got a tip that the guy's holding?
speaker1: i'll see what i can do.

speaker1: i've got a visual. 
speaker2: red team?
speaker3: he's heading to his room.
speaker2: black team?

speaker1: trahn what the hell? 
speaker2: danny told me to tell you that he was sorry. he said he had to take care of this himself.
speaker3: here he comes.
speaker4: easy, boy.

speaker1: where's bubba? 
speaker2: maybe he isn't showing.
speaker1: looks like flynne's handling the cash. let's get into position.

speaker1: what the is this? 
speaker2: just some buddies.
speaker1: this is you didn't say anything about anybody else being here.
speaker2: what the are you gonna do about it, dickhead?
speaker1: come on, man, let's deal.
speaker2: cool it. we got business.
speaker1: yeah,
speaker2: oh my, oh my. big bill, come take a look at this.

speaker1: anybody there? 
speaker2: danny continues.

speaker1: get the bag. 
speaker2: danny?
speaker3: my name is tom. tanner frowns. danny tom van allen danny raises his gun.
speaker2: whatever you say, man. look ... can we talk about this?
speaker3: yeah. okay. listen carefully ...
speaker2: please ... don't do this ...
speaker3: answer the question!

speaker1: does that answer your question? i fight. i fight and i die like a man. you're a coward, flynne. you lived like one and now you're gonna die like one. 
speaker2: glock semi-automatic 9 mm ...

speaker1: ... and a ten round magazine ... 
speaker2: kid or did i say eleven? danny trying to remember. kid
speaker3: it doesn't matter.
speaker4: too late to be a hero. danny picks up the syringe. tanner pulls the trigger.

speaker1: ten it is. 
speaker2: suddenly, a noise behind danny.

speaker1: my name is tom van allen. i'm a trumpet player. 
speaker2: nah, you're danny flynne. he turns.
speaker3: you're a rat.
speaker4: you said you wouldn't kill him!
speaker4: you lied to me!
speaker3: oops. my bad.
speaker1: colette, what happened? didn't the cops ...
speaker3: the cops came. but they didn't find nothing. turns out their c.i. game 'em some bad information. quincey holds up the baggie of drugs.
speaker1: you set me up?
speaker3: played you like a squeezebox, romeo.
speaker1: you're good, princess. i'll give you that.
speaker4: danny, it's not what you think.
speaker4: i owed them money ... a lot of money ... they didn't give me a choice. you know how it works. when i got to know you, i tried to back out ... that's when they did this ... but i told them i wouldn't do it .. i didn't want to see you get hurt.
speaker1: she selling me a bill, home boy?
speaker3: nah, she ain't lying. she took a pretty good beating from you, ace. i seen grown men crack after a lot less. but not this it was very touching.
speaker1: then why are we here?
speaker4: they threatened to kill my daughter. i had no choice. i'm sorry, danny.
speaker1: it's okay. it's okay. damn, you're beautiful.
speaker3: quincey grabs her arm. quincey let's go.
speaker4: no!
speaker3: you wanna die here with him or come with me?
speaker1: colette, go.
speaker4: i don't want to leave you.
speaker1: your daughter needs you. go.

speaker1: oh what is this? 
speaker2: hang in there buddy.

