speaker1: who was this guy? 
speaker2: rock and roll, gus. johnny boz.
speaker1: i never heard of him.
speaker2: before your time, pop. mid-sixties. five or six hits. he's got a club down in the fillmore now.
speaker1: not now he don't.
speaker3: you guys know captain talcott?
speaker1: what's the chief's office doin' here.
speaker4: observing.
speaker3: what do you think, doc?
speaker5: the skin blanches when i press it -- this kind of color is about right for six or eight hours.
speaker3: nobody say anything. the maid came in an hour ago and found him.
speaker1: maybe the maid did it.
speaker3: she's 54 years old and weighs 240 pounds.
speaker5: there are no bruises on his body.
speaker1: it ain't the maid.
speaker3: he left the club with his girlfriend about midnight. that's the last time anybody saw him.
speaker2: what was it?
speaker5: ice pick. left on the coffee table in the living room. thin steel handle. forensics took it downtown.
speaker6: there's come all over the sheets -- he got off before he got offed.
speaker1: that rules the maid out for sure.
speaker4: this is sensitive. mr. boz was a major contributor to the mayor's campaign. he was chairman of the board of the palace of fine arts --
speaker1: i thought you said he was a rock and roll star.
speaker3: he was a retired rock and roll star.
speaker4: a civic-minded, very respectable rock and roll star.
speaker1: what's that over there?
speaker2: it looks like some civic-minded, very respectable cocaine to me, gus.
speaker4: listen to me, curran. i'm going to get a lot of heat on this. i don't want any... mistakes.
speaker2: who's the girlfriend?
speaker3: catherine tramell, 162 divisadero.
speaker2: talcott doesn't usually show up at the office 'till after his 18 holes. what are they nervous about?
speaker1: they're executives. they're nervous about everything.
speaker3: nick!
speaker3: keep your three o'clock.
speaker2: do you want me to work the case, phil, or do you want me to --
speaker3: i said keep it.

speaker1: i'm detective curran, this is detective moran. we're with the san francisco police department. 
speaker2: just moment. come in.
speaker2: sit, please. just moment.
speaker3: ain't that cute? they got his and her pig-assos, son.
speaker1: i didn't know you knew who picasso was, gus.
speaker1: we're sorry to disturb you, we'd like to ask you some --
speaker4: are you vice?
speaker3: homicide.
speaker4: what do you want?
speaker3: when was the last time you saw john boz?
speaker4: is he dead?
speaker1: why do you think he's dead?
speaker4: you wouldn't be here otherwise, would you?
speaker3: were you with him last night?
speaker4: you're looking for catherine, not me.
speaker1: who are you?
speaker4: i'm roxy. i'm her -- friend.
speaker5: she's out at the beach house at stinson. seadrift. 1402.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker5: you're wasting your time. catherine didn't kill him.

speaker1: ms. tramell? 
speaker1: i'm de...
speaker2: i know who you are.
speaker2: how did he die?
speaker3: he was murdered.
speaker2: really. maybe that's why you're from homicide. how?
speaker1: with an ice pick.
speaker1: how long were you dating him?
speaker2: i wasn't dating him. i was him.
speaker3: what are you -- a pro?
speaker2: no. i'm an amateur.
speaker1: how long were you having with him?
speaker2: about a year and a half.
speaker1: were you with him last night?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: did you leave the club with him?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: did you go home with him?
speaker2: no. we had a drink at the club. we left together. i came here. he went home.
speaker1: was there anyone with you last night?
speaker2: no. i wasn't in the mood to have with anyone last night.
speaker1: let me ask you something, ms. tramell? are you sorry he's dead?
speaker2: yes. i liked him.
speaker2: i don't really feel like talking anymore.
speaker3: listen, lady, we can do this downtown if you --
speaker2: read me my rights and arrest me and i'll go downtown.
speaker2: otherwise, get the out of here. please.

speaker1: i'm sorry, beth. i -- i got hung up in stinson. 
speaker2: how are you, nick?
speaker1: i'm fine. come on, beth! you know i'm fine! how the long do i have to keep doing this?
speaker2: as long as internal affairs wants you to, i suppose. sit down, nick.
speaker1: it's you know it is.
speaker2: i know it is -- but sit down anyway so we can get it over with, okay?
speaker2: so -- how are things?
speaker1: things are fine. i told you. they're fine.
speaker2: how is your -- personal life?
speaker1: my life is fine. my life is pretty actually since i stopped seeing you -- maybe i should think about my electrolux again.
speaker1: sorry.
speaker2: how about the booze?
speaker1: it's been three months.
speaker2: how about the coke?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: no! i'm working my tail off. i'm off the sauce, i'm not even smoking anymore.
speaker2: how's not smoking?
speaker1: it's -- now will you please tell i.a. that i'm just you average healthy totally fucked-up cop and let me get out of here?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: i still miss you, nick.

speaker1: talcott's in there. they're waiting. 
speaker1: how'd it go, son?
speaker2: she misses me.
speaker1: hallelujah.

speaker1: sixteen stab wounds to the chest and neck. no usable prints, no forcible entry, nothing missing. no prints on the ice pick, either -- it's available at any safeway. the scarf is hermes, expensive -- they sell about 20,000 a year worldwide. 
speaker2: the powder was cocaine, high- quality, high-content. he inhaled it; there were minute quantities on his lips and penis. mr. boz leaves five million dollars, no insurance, no direct survivors. he liked his coke, he liked his girls, and he liked rock and roll.
speaker3: he liked the mayor, too, right?
speaker4: what about his girlfriend?
speaker5: is she relevant here? i didn't know she was a suspect.
speaker6: she's a suspect.
speaker5: on what basis?
speaker6: catherine tramell. age 30. no priors, no convictions. double major, magnum laude, berkeley, 1980. literature and psychology. daughter, sole survivor -- marvin and elaine tramell, killed in a boating accident, 1978, catherine tramell sole heir. estimated assets $110 million.
speaker3: are you kidding me?
speaker6: formerly engaged to roberto vasquez, deceased --
speaker2: bobby vasquez?
speaker6: bobby vasquez, former middleweight contender, killed in the ring atlantic city, 1984.
speaker3: i love it. she's got a hundred million bucks. she fighters and rock and roll stars. and she's got a degree in with peoples' heads.
speaker6: you forgot her degree in literature. she's a writer. she published a novel last year under a pen name. do you want to know what it's about?
speaker6: it's about a retired rock and roll star who is murdered by his girlfriend.

speaker1: dr. gardner? 
speaker2: i've asked dr. lamott to consult with us. this isn't really my turf. dr. lamott teaches the psycho- pathology of psychopathic behavior at stanford and is also a member of the justice department's psychological profile team. dr. lamott?
speaker3: there are two possibilities. one. the person who wrote this book is your murderer and acted out the killing described in ritualistic, literal detail. two. someone who wants to do the person who wrote this book harm read the book and enacted the killing described to incriminate the writer.
speaker4: what if the writer did it? what are we dealing with?
speaker3: you're dealing with a devious, diabolical mind. this book must have been written at least six months, maybe years before it was published. that means the writer planned the crime, at least in the subconscious, back then. the fact that the writer carried it out indicates psychopathic obsessive behavior in terms not only of the killing itself but in terms of applied advance defense mechanism.
speaker5: most times i can't tell from shinola, doc. what was all that you just said?
speaker2: she anticipates the book to be her best alibi.
speaker3: correct.
speaker2: she's going to say do you think i'd be enough to kill anyone in the exact way i've described in my book? i wouldn't do that because i'd know i'd be a suspect.
speaker4: what if it's not the writer? what if it's someone who read the book?
speaker3: you're dealing then with someone so obsessed that he or she is willing to kill an irrelevant and innocent victim to place the blame on the person who wrote this book. we are talking about deep-seated, obsessional hatred; an utter lack of sense of proportion or perspective.
speaker5: we've got a top-of-the-line, once- in-a-lifetime loony-tune either way you cut it -- that's what you're saying, right, doc?
speaker3: you're dealing with someone very dangerous and very ill.

speaker1: come on, you know there's no case here. there's no physical evidence -- okay, she doesn't have an alibi but there's no motive. her defense would just beat us to death with the copycat thing. anybody who read the book could have done it. 
speaker2: so what do we do -- nothing?
speaker3: we bring her in for questioning.
speaker4: she's got enough money to burn this whole department down.
speaker3: she was the last person seen with the guy -- i'll take the responsibility.
speaker4: it's yours.
speaker1: it won't do any good. she'll come in with lee bailey and mel belli trailing behind her on a solid gold chain from tiffanys.
speaker4: yes she will.
speaker2: no she won't.
speaker2: i don't think she's going to hide behind anybody. i don't think she's going to hide at all.
speaker4: i think you're as crazy as she probably is, curran.
speaker5: you know what they say: it takes one to know one.

speaker1: ms. tramell, we'd like you to come downtown and answer some questions for us. 
speaker2: are you arresting me?
speaker1: if that's the way you want to play it.
speaker2: can i change into something more appropriate? it'll just take a minute.
speaker2: come in.

speaker1: how long will this take? 
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker2: do you always keep old newspapers around?
speaker1: only when they make interesting reading.
speaker1: i'm ready.
speaker3: you have the right to an attorney.
speaker1: why would i need an attorney?

speaker1: do you have a cigarette? 
speaker2: i don't smoke.
speaker1: yes, you do.
speaker2: i quit.
speaker2: i thought you were out of cigarettes.
speaker1: i found some in my purse; would you like one?
speaker2: i told you -- i quit.
speaker1: it won't last.
speaker3: you workin' on another book?
speaker1: yes i am.
speaker3: it must really be somehtin' --makin' stuff up all the time.
speaker1: it teaches you to lie.
speaker3: how's that?
speaker1: you make it up, but it has to be believable. they call it suspension of disbelief.
speaker3: i like that. "suspension of disbelief." he smiles at her in the mirror.
speaker2: what's your new book about?
speaker1: a detective. he falls for the wrong woman.
speaker2: what happens to him?
speaker1: she kills him.
speaker4: i'm john corrigan. i'm an assistant district attorney, ms. tramell. can we get you anything? would you like some coffee?
speaker1: no thank you.
speaker5: are your attorneys --
speaker2: ms. tramell waived her right to an attorney.
speaker1: did i miss something?
speaker2: i told them you wouldn't want an attorney present.
speaker6: why have you waived your right to an attorney, ms. tramell?
speaker1: why did you think i wouldn't want one?
speaker2: i told them you wouldn't want to hide.
speaker1: i have nothing to hide.
speaker4: there is no smoking in this building, ms. tramell.
speaker1: what are you going to do? charge me with smoking?

speaker1: would you tell us the nature of your relationship with mr. boz? 
speaker2: i had with him for about a year and a half. i liked having with him.
speaker2: he wasn't afraid of experimenting. i like men like that. i like men who give me pleasure. he gave me a lot of pleasure.
speaker1: did you ever engage in sado- masochistic activity with him?
speaker2: exactly what do you have in mind, mr. corrigan.
speaker1: did you ever tie him up?
speaker2: no.
speaker3: you never tied him up.
speaker2: no. johnny liked to use his hands too much. i like hands and fingers.

speaker1: you describe a white silk scarf in your book. 
speaker2: i've always had a fondness for white silk scarves. i have a very vivid imagination.
speaker3: but you said you liked men to use their hands.
speaker2: no. i said i liked johnny to use his hands. i don't give any rules, nick. i go with the flow.

speaker1: did you kill mr. boz, ms. tramell? 
speaker2: i'd have to be pretty stupid to write a book about a killing and then kill him the way i described in my book. i'd be announcing myself as the killer. i'm not stupid.
speaker3: we know you're not stupid, ms.
speaker4: maybe that's what you're counting on to get you off the hook.
speaker5: writing a book about it gives you an alibi for not killing him.
speaker2: yes it does, doesn't it?
speaker2: the answer is no. i didn't kill him.

speaker1: do you use drugs, ms. tramell? 
speaker2: sometimes.
speaker3: did you ever do drugs with mr. boz?
speaker2: sure.
speaker1: what kind of drugs?
speaker2: cocaine.
speaker2: have you ever on cocaine? it's nice.

speaker1: you like playing games, don't you? 
speaker2: i've got a degree in psych. it goes with the turf. games are fun.
speaker1: how about boxing? that's a game. was that fun for you?
speaker3: i think that's irrelevant to this inquiry.
speaker2: yes it was. bobby died.
speaker1: how did you feel when he died?
speaker2: i loved him. i hurt.
speaker1: how did you feel when i told you johnny boz had died -- that day at the beach.
speaker2: i felt somebody had read my book and was playing a game.
speaker1: but you didn't hurt --
speaker2: no.
speaker1: because you didn't love him --
speaker2: that's right.
speaker1: even though you were him.
speaker2: you still get the pleasure. didn't you ever anybody else while you were married, nick?
speaker4: how did you know he was married?
speaker2: maybe i was guessing. what difference does it make?
speaker2: would you like a cigarette, nick?
speaker5: do you two know each other?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no.

speaker1: how did you meet mr. boz? 
speaker2: i wanted to write a book about the murder of a retired rock star. i went down to his club and picked him up. then i had with him.
speaker3: you didn't feel anything for him. you just had with him for your book.
speaker2: in the beginning. then i got to like what he did for me.
speaker4: that's pretty cold, ain't it, lady?
speaker2: i'm a writer, i use people for what i write. you write what you know. let the world beware.
speaker2: would you like me to take a lie detector test?

speaker1: no blips, no blood pressure variations, no pulse variance. either she's telling the truth or i've never met anyone like her. 
speaker2: well, i guess that's it.
speaker3: how does somebody beat this machine?
speaker1: ninety-nine point nine percent of the cases, they don't. you'd have to be able to mask the truth from your own central nervous system, your circulatory system, your adrenal glands. in my opinion, this woman is telling the truth.
speaker4: can i go now?
speaker2: yes. thanks for coming in, ms. tramell. i'm sorry to inconvenience you.
speaker4: can i ask one of you for a ride?
speaker3: sure.
speaker4: thanks.

speaker1: i'm tired. 
speaker2: it's got to be tiring to beat that machine.
speaker1: if i were guilty, and if i wanted to beat that machine, it wouldn't be tiring. it wouldn't be tiring at all.
speaker2: why not?
speaker1: because i'm a professional liar. i spend most of my waking hours dwelling on my lies. for my writing.
speaker1: i love the rain, don't you?
speaker1: you took a polygraph after you shot those two people, didn't you?
speaker2: i passed.
speaker1: you see? we're both innocent, nick.
speaker2: how do you know all this stuff about me?
speaker1: you know all about me.
speaker2: i don't know anything that isn't police business.
speaker1: you know i don't like to wear any underwear, don't you, nick?
speaker1: thanks for the ride.

speaker1: what is all this "nick" stuff -- nick would you like a cigarette. 
speaker2: she didn't ask me for the ride.
speaker1: and you volunteered.
speaker3: perrier, nick?
speaker2: double black jack rocks, harry.
speaker4: what you doin', son?
speaker2: it's my first drink in three months. that okay with you, pop? she doesn't know me. i never saw her before gus and i talked to her.
speaker3: here you go, nick.
speaker2: thanks, harry.
speaker1: you sure?
speaker2: i'm sure.
speaker2: now what?
speaker1: what now what? now nothing. she passed the polygraph. that's it.
speaker2: she knew she could beat it. that's why she asked to take it.
speaker1: how the do you know? what is it with you and this broad anyway?
speaker2: come on, phil. you're not gonna let this slide. what about her parents? what about what else she's published? at least we should get the stuff to see if we find anything else that's an amazing real-life coincidence.
speaker1: her parents died in an accident. i don't care what else she's written. what are you -- a book critic?
speaker2: how did they die? was there an investigation?
speaker1: how you're saying she killed her parents? did she kill bobby vasquez, too?
speaker4: not unless she got up in the ring and turned into one mean
speaker1: maybe she did, gus. maybe she grew herself an afro and learned a left hook and put shoe polish on her face. let's polygraph her again and ask her about it.
speaker2: you, phil.
speaker1: you, too nick.
speaker2: can you get me another double black jack, harry.
speaker5: hey, shooter -- you back on the black jack, shooter?
speaker1: we're discussing a case, marty.
speaker5: i know that. i had no doubt of that.
speaker3: here you go, nick.
speaker5: double, huh, shooter?
speaker2: i'm off-duty, nilsen. you hear me? i'm off-duty discussing a case. internal affairs shouldn't have any trouble with that. maybe i should put in for overtime.
speaker5: you do that, shooter. why don't you send it to me? i'll give it special attention.
speaker2: i'm gonna tell you once more, nilsen -- lt. walker and gus get up and hold nick back.
speaker6: what's the problem?
speaker5: no problem, doctor. here comes the doctor just in time to save her patient. take care, shooter. and he walks away. nick still looks like he wants to go after him. beth pulls him away from the booth.
speaker6: you okay?
speaker2: yeah.
speaker6: you don't look so okay.
speaker2: what are you doing here?
speaker6: baby-sitting. rookie cop.
speaker2: what else is new?
speaker2: you want to get out of here?
speaker6: yes.
speaker4: maybe it's for old-time's sake.
speaker1: sometimes i think he started banging her just to get himself off the hook with internal affairs.
speaker4: he ain't that way. he's got heart.
speaker1: yeah. i know.

speaker1: don't -- please, nick -- 
speaker1: please don't -- don't --

speaker1: what was she like? 
speaker2: who?
speaker1: catherine tramell.
speaker1: i met her at berkeley.
speaker1: we were in some of the same classes.
speaker2: why didn't you tell me?
speaker1: i'm telling you.
speaker1: you've never been... like that... before.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: you're the shrink.
speaker1: you weren't making love to me.
speaker2: who was i making love to?
speaker1: you weren't making love.
speaker2: i need a cigarette.
speaker1: i thought you quit.
speaker1: top drawer in the foyer. get it on your way out.

speaker1: you look like dogshit. 
speaker2: he looks a little shrunk, that's all.
speaker3: we got a call from berkeley p.d. there was a killing. a professor. icepick. in his bed. multiple stab wounds. 1977.
speaker4: she was there, wasn't she?
speaker1: university records say she was there.
speaker1: gus -- go over to berkeley. harrigan -- find out what else she's published. andrews -- get the files on her parents' accident. carbon beth on everything. i want some psychological input on this andrews and harrigan go; nick is left there with gus.
speaker4: what about me?
speaker2: you're already gettin' psychological input, son.
speaker1: go stick your head in a tub of ice water. see where she leads.

speaker1: we see him type in the words 
speaker2: a long beat, and then it comes up
speaker3: ain't you go nothin' better to do than to come in here and jack off the machine?
speaker4: what are you doing here, pop?
speaker3: i came in here to jack off the machine. one dead psychology professor. noah goldstein. dr. noah goldstein. and guess what? he was her counselor.
speaker4: was she ever suspect?
speaker3: no, sir. they never even got a statement from her.
speaker4: do you remember a case -- 1956 -- hazel dobkins?
speaker3: yes! couldn't get it outta my head for years. still can't. nice little kids -- nice husband, wasn't porkin' around -- no financial problems. one day -- outta the clear blue sky -- she does 'em. all of 'em. used a knife. he got for a wedding present. didn't even deny it. sweet as honey. said she didn't know why she done it.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: am i... disturbing you?
speaker1: no. come in.

speaker1: i'm using you for my detective. in my book. you don't mind, do you? 
speaker1: would you like a drink? i was just going to have one.
speaker2: no, thanks.
speaker2: i'd like to ask you a few more questions.
speaker1: i'd like to ask you some, too.
speaker1: for my book.
speaker2: what kind of questions?
speaker1: how does it feel to kill someone?
speaker2: you tell me.
speaker1: i don't know. but you do.
speaker2: it was an accident. they got in the line of fire.
speaker1: four shootings in five years. all accidents.
speaker2: they were drug buys. i was a vice cop.
speaker2: tell me about professor goldstein.

speaker1: there's a name from the past. 
speaker2: you want a name from the present? how about hazel dobkins?
speaker1: noah was my counselor in my freshman year. that's probably where i got the idea for the icepick. for my book. funny how the subconscious works. hazel is my friend.
speaker2: she wiped out her whole family.
speaker1: yes. she's helped me understand homicidal impulse.
speaker2: didn't you study it in school?
speaker1: only in theory. you know all about homicidal impulse, don't you, shooter? not in theory -- in practice.
speaker1: what happened, nick? did you get sucked into it? did you like it too much?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: tell me about the coke, nick. the day you shot those two tourists -- how much coke did you do?
speaker1: tell me, nick.
speaker2: i didn't.
speaker1: yes, you did. they never tested you, did they? but internal affairs knew.
speaker1: your wife knew, didn't she? she knew what was going on. nicky got too close to the flame. nicky liked it.
speaker1: you're going to make a terrific character, nick.

speaker1: she's on the phone -- she'll be right with you, detective --he sweeps by her into beth's inner office. she hangs up when she sees the look on his face. 
speaker2: who has access to my file?
speaker3: what are you talking about, nick -- what's wrong with you?
speaker2: who's got access to my file?
speaker3: nobody.
speaker3: it's a confidential psychiatric record, it'd be illegal --she backs into a wall. she looks very scared. he comes very close to her -- puts an arm behind her to the wall.
speaker2: don't, beth. don't lie to me.
speaker2: it's internal affairs, isn't it?
speaker3: no, nick, please --
speaker2: who?
speaker3: nilsen.

speaker1: what do you want, curran? 
speaker2: you sold her the file, didn't you?
speaker1: what are you talking about?
speaker2: what'd she pay you?
speaker3: let him go, curran. nice and easy.
speaker1: you're on sick leave, shooter. as of right now. pending the outcome of a psychiatric evaluation.

speaker1: what's goin' down, son? 
speaker2: nothin' i'll be okay, pop.
speaker1: no, sir. you won't. there's smoke off yonder on the horizon. they're gonna want your badge.
speaker2: i got tired of being played with.
speaker1: you sure got real conclusive ways of demonstrating that.
speaker2: she knows where i live and breathe. she's coming after me.
speaker1: what is it you got between you?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: somethin', though.
speaker2: yeah. somethin'.

speaker1: i still have my key. 
speaker2: i don't want to see you, beth.
speaker1: damnit! don't shut me out! you owe me more than that?
speaker2: i don't owe you anything; you don't owe me anything. we went to bed -- what was it? -- ten or fifteen times? it wasn't memorable enough to carry any obligations.
speaker1: sometimes i really hate you.
speaker1: i'm sorry... i don't usually... act like that.
speaker2: how could you let him have my file, beth?
speaker1: he was going to recommend your discharge a behavioral disability. i made a deal with him. he could review the session notes himself. it was the only way i could keep you on the force.
speaker2: you did it for me.
speaker1: yes. i care about you. i did it for you.
speaker2: get out of here, beth. please?

speaker1: one shot. close range. probably a .38 caliber revolver. nick stares at nilsen's body. they watch him. 
speaker2: give me your gun, nick.
speaker3: you think i --
speaker1: i don't son, but i got the minority opinion.

speaker1: okay. i went after him. i lost my temper. 
speaker2: do you have any evidence that he showed your psychiatric file to anyone?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: we'll speak to you afterwards, dr. gardner.
speaker3: i'd like to sit-in if you don't mind.
speaker4: i'd really rather --
speaker5: i don't see anything wrong with dr. gardner sitting-in if detective curran doesn't object.
speaker2: where were you tonight?
speaker1: home. watching tv.
speaker2: all night?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker2: were you drinking?
speaker1: yeah, i was drinking.
speaker2: when did you start drinking again?
speaker1: a couple days ago.
speaker3: i saw detective curran at his apartment around ten o'clock. he was sober and lucid. i asked him in my capacity as his departmental therapist about his altercation with lt. nilsen. he expressed regret and displayed no hostility.
speaker2: how long were you at his apartment?
speaker3: about fifteen minutes. i saw there was no reason for my concern and left.
speaker2: there's no smoking in this building.
speaker1: what are you gonna do -- charge me with smoking?
speaker6: i'll ask you once, nick -- for the record did you kill him?
speaker1: no.
speaker1: come on -- i'm going to storm into his office in front of everybody in the afternoon and then that night i'm going to kill him? i'd have to be really to do that.
speaker2: going after him before gets you off the hook for killing him that's your alibi.
speaker6: like writing a book about killing a guy gets you off the hook for killing him.
speaker2: i don't understand. what are you talking about? what book?
speaker6: private joke.
speaker1: i don't think it's funny.
speaker7: well, hell, son, it's got a certain ring to it, i'll say that.

speaker1: beth. 
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: it's the least i could do... considering i got you into this mess with those reports.
speaker1: no. i mean it, thank you.
speaker2: how do you know catherine tramell saw my reports?
speaker1: she knows stuff about me that only you know.
speaker2: she must really be something. from a clinical point of view.
speaker1: what was she like in school?
speaker2: i hardly knew her. she gave me the creeps, though. i don't know why.

speaker1: get some rest. promise? 
speaker2: beth. i didn't mean what i said. about --
speaker1: yes you did. i'm a big girl. i can handle it.

speaker1: take care, you hear? 
speaker2: did you find out about her parents?
speaker1: you're on leave, man. you're on psycho leave. i'm talking to a possible whacko here.
speaker2: you know i'm whacko, sam, what'd you find?
speaker1: the boat blew. there was a leak in the gas line. there were two previous repairs. there was a five-mil policy on both of 'em. a real heavy investigation. zilch. goose-egg. it was an accident.
speaker2: thanks.
speaker3: i.a.'s going to talk to you more about nilsen. they're handling the investigation, we're not. stay in touch with dr. gardner, it'll help on the evaluation.
speaker2: she killed him.
speaker3: beth? now you've got beth killing people?
speaker2: catherine tramell. it's part of her game.
speaker3: first you've got her buying your file. now you've got her killing nilsen. forget her, willya? go someplace. sit in the sun. get away from this fog. get her out of your system.
speaker2: you don't but it, do you? she knew nobody would but it. she knew i'd say she did it. and she knew nobody would buy it.
speaker3: she's with your head, nick. pretty soon you're gonna look in the mirror and think you're seeing her.

speaker1: i heard about what happened. what good's a shooter without his gun? 
speaker2: how exactly did you hear?
speaker1: i have attorneys. they have friends. i have friends. money buys you a lot of attorneys and friends.
speaker2: i don't know about that i don't have any money i don't have any attorneys gus is my only real friend.
speaker1: i wasn't talking about real friends. why doesn't gus like me.
speaker2: i like you.
speaker1: do you?
speaker2: yeah. would you like to come up and have a drink?
speaker1: i didn't think you'd ask me.
speaker2: i'm not that easy to figure.
speaker1: you're not easy to figure. i'm just very good at figuring.
speaker2: don't get too cocky.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: you can make a mistake.
speaker1: not me.

speaker1: you should put some warmth into it. you don't want it to reflect on your personality. 
speaker2: jack daniel's okay? it's gonna have to be.
speaker1: fine.
speaker2: ice?
speaker1: please.
speaker1: let me do that. you like to watch me doing it, don't you?
speaker1: can i have a cigarette, please? i told you you'd start smoking again.
speaker1: light it for me, will you?
speaker1: thank you.
speaker2: what did you pay nilsen?
speaker1: isn't he the policeman that you shot, shooter?
speaker2: what if i asked you not to call me shooter?
speaker1: what if i call you nicky?
speaker2: my wife used to call me that.
speaker1: i know, nicky, but i like it.
speaker1: cheers. my friends call me catherine.
speaker2: what did bobby vasquez used to call you?
speaker1: mostly, but he meant it affectionately. you don't have any coke, do you? i love coke and jack daniel's.
speaker2: there's pepsi in the fridge.
speaker1: it's not the same thing, is it?
speaker2: where's it going? what do you want from me?
speaker1: say -- "what do you want from me, catherine?"
speaker2: what do you want from me, catherine?
speaker1: i brought you something.
speaker1: aren't you going to thank me?
speaker2: what's it about?
speaker1: a boy kills his parents. they have a plane. he makes it look like an accident.
speaker2: why does he do it?
speaker1: to see if he can get away with it.
speaker2: when did you write it?
speaker1: you mean did i write it before my parents died?
speaker2: yes.
speaker1: no. i wrote it years afterwards.
speaker1: you're not going to stop following me around now just because you're on leave -- are you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: good. i'd miss you. you can get into trouble, though.
speaker2: i'll risk it.
speaker1: why take the risk?
speaker2: to see if i can get away with it.
speaker2: how's your new book?
speaker1: i'm getting deeper and deeper into my character.
speaker1: thanks for the drink.
speaker1: i'm leaving the house around midnight. in case you're going to follow me. i'm going down to johnny's club.
speaker2: i'll meet you there. she looks at him a long beat; and she's gone.

speaker1: forgive me for askin', son, and i don't mean to belabor the obvious, but why is it that you've got your head so far up your own ass? 
speaker2: she want to play? fine. i can play.
speaker1: everybody that she plays with dies.
speaker2: i know what that's like.

speaker1: if you don't leave her alone, i'll kill you. 
speaker2: tell me something, rocki. man-to- man. i think she's the of the century, don't you?
speaker2: how long you been here, rock? you like to watch, do you?
speaker1: she likes me to watch.

speaker1: 'morning. 
speaker1: i think roxy got jealous.
speaker1: maybe she saw something she didn't see before.
speaker2: she's seen everything before.
speaker1: she's never seen us before.
speaker2: did you think it was so special?
speaker1: i told her it was the of the century.
speaker1: what did you think?
speaker2: i thought it was a pretty good beginning.
speaker1: how about roxy? is she a to the century, too?
speaker2: do you want her to join us sometime?
speaker1: i didn't mean for me -- i meant for you.
speaker2: i'm not as judgmental about women as i am about men.
speaker1: how's your shoulder?
speaker2: fine. how's your back?
speaker1: it hurts.
speaker2: we're alike, you know.
speaker1: are you kidding? you think this is my idea of morning-after conversation?
speaker2: do you want personal insights and adolescent secrets? i don't do those.
speaker1: you mean getting inside you isn't going to get me any deeper into your character.
speaker2: not unless you confuse my character with my body parts.
speaker2: were you frightened, nicky?
speaker1: i thought that business with the scarf was pretty nifty.
speaker2: i told you i had a vivid imagination.
speaker2: you shouldn't play this game.
speaker1: i don't have a choice.
speaker2: you're in over your head.
speaker1: i know.
speaker2: i've got a book to write. i'll see you around, shooter.

speaker1: what is this place? hillbilly heaven? 
speaker2: where in the you been? i went over to your place.
speaker1: easy there, partner -- i wasn't there.
speaker2: i went over last night, too.
speaker1: i wasn't there last night, either.
speaker2: you... her! sonofabitch... you her! goddamn, you are one --
speaker1: i'm not gonna get aids, pop --don't worry about it. i always use a rubber.
speaker2: i don't give a... flyin'... chili- bean... fart about aids!
speaker1: you oughta use a rubber, pop. you really should.
speaker2: what in the for? you think i'm gettin' any at my age? i don't like blue-haired women. i don't like 'em.
speaker1: you don't like punk rockers?
speaker2: say what?

speaker1: you feeling better? 
speaker2: i feel fine!
speaker2: how could you her?
speaker2: you wanna die, son? what is it -- those tourists -- you still feel so bad about that you're wigglin' your way into an icepi -- we got too many tourists comin' here anyway -- plenty more tourists where they came from. some people here really give him the looks now. gus looks angrily away from them, drinks more coffee.
speaker1: i'm not afraid of her.
speaker2: why the not?
speaker1: i don't know. i'm just not.
speaker2: that's her talkin' --he gets a real nasty look from a very fat woman eating a cheeseburger. he winks at her. the woman looks away from him, shaking her head.
speaker2: it ain't your brain.
speaker2: i.a. done did a track on lt. martin d for nilsen. they found a safety deposit box with fifty- thousand dollars in it, taken out three months ago, used that one time. he looks at the fat woman again -- leers at her obscenely.
speaker1: it doesn't make sense. she didn't know me three months ago.
speaker2: maybe it wasn't her that paid him. maybe the money was for somethin' else. how the do i know? i'm just an old city cowboy tryin' not to fall outta his saddle.

speaker1: you all right, pop? you want me to drive you? 
speaker2: in that little pissant car of yours? hell, no. i ain't gettin' no back pain disability retirement -- i'm gettin' me a full pension and a real gold-plate seiko watch.
speaker1: come on, i'll drive you in this thing.
speaker2: you think i'd let you drive my cadillac car? i ain't lettin' no hear-up-his-ass person drive my cadillac car.

speaker1: tell me again. i want to hear you say it again. 
speaker2: it was an accident.
speaker1: you're driving around north beach for no particular reason and this car won't get out of the way --
speaker2: i don't think she meant to go off the hill, do you?
speaker3: full name, roxanne hardy. last address -- cloverdale, california. no priors, no convictions. the car is registered to catherine tramell.
speaker1: you knew her, didn't you?
speaker2: gus and i talked to her at tramell's house. all we did was write her name down.
speaker1: i told you to stay away from tramell.
speaker2: yeah. but you didn't tell me to stay away from her car.
speaker4: i want you in dr. gardner's office at nine o'clock. you're out of control, curran.
speaker2: who are you guys gonna sell my file to this time?

speaker1: hello, nick. this is dr. myron and r. mcelwaine. they've been asked to consult with me on this evaluation. 
speaker2: sit down, nick.
speaker3: nick -- when you recollect your childhood, are your recollections pleasing to you?
speaker4: number one i don't remember how often i used to jack off, but it was a lot. number two i didn't get off at my dad -- even after i was old enough to know what he and mom were doing in the bedroom. number three i don't look in the toilet before i flush it. number four i don't wet the bed and haven't for some time. number five you can go yourselves because i'm out of here.

speaker1: what is your problem? i'm trying to help you. why won't you let me help you? 
speaker2: i don't need any help.
speaker1: yes you do. something's on with you. you're sleeping with her, aren't you?
speaker2: what is this interest you've got in her?
speaker1: my interest is in you, not in her.
speaker2: i thought you hardly know her.
speaker1: i know the type. i'm a psychologist.
speaker2: that means you manipulate people too, doesn't it, beth? you're a practicing psychologist -- that means you're better at it than she is.
speaker1: i feel sorry for you, nick.

speaker1: catherine! catherine! 
speaker2: i should have known. i came into the house when you were down on the beach. she looked at me so strangely. she left right after you. i shouldn't have let her watch us. she wanted to watch me all the time. she tried to kill you, didn't she?
speaker1: did you like her to watch?
speaker2: do you think i told her to kill you?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: everybody that i care about dies.
speaker1: it's ok. it's ok.
speaker2: make love to me.

speaker1: do you think she killed johnny boz? 
speaker2: for what... to set me up? she loved me she wouldn't frame me.
speaker1: maybe she got jealous of johnny boz, too.
speaker2: no, she didn't... she never got jealous before... she got excited. i don't have luck with women. there was this girl i met while i was in college. i slept with her once. she started following me around, taking my picture. she dyed her hair, copied my clothes. lisa something... oberman. it was awful.
speaker1: i thought you didn't do adolescent secrets.
speaker2: i never have before.

speaker1: isn't it just beautiful? i love it here like this. 
speaker2: we're still playing games, aren't we?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: no?
speaker1: no more games, nick. i'm tired of playing games!
speaker2: then tell me about nilsen.
speaker1: you won't believe me.
speaker2: try me.
speaker1: i paid him $50,000 in cash for your psychiatric file.
speaker2: when?
speaker1: about three months before i met you.
speaker2: why?
speaker1: i'd read about your shootings in the papers. i decided to write a book about a detective. i wanted to know my character.
speaker2: you paid $50,000 for your character?
speaker1: i would've paid more. i wanted to know everything about you. then you came down here after johnny got killed... it gave me a chance to get to know my character better.
speaker2: what about the other night. what about last night? was that to get to know your character?
speaker1: maybe i'm losing interest in my book.
speaker1: do you believe me?
speaker2: i don't know.
speaker1: i'll convince you.
speaker1: hello? she listens a beat, then hands him the phone.
speaker1: it's gus-who-doesn't-like-me.
speaker2: catherine says you don't like her.

speaker1: she's right. you got an icepick in you yet? 
speaker2: what did he say?
speaker3: he asked if i had an icepick in me yet.
speaker2: funny.

speaker1: why not? 
speaker2: you're my friend, gus.

speaker1: how old was she when this happened? 
speaker2: fourteen. we seal juvenile records until they're deceased. that's why you didn't find it in your computer.
speaker3: what was the motive?
speaker2: she said she didn't know herself, just sort of did it on impulse. the razor just happened to be there.
speaker2: that's what she said.

speaker1: i don't understand what the hell's going on here, pop. 
speaker2: ain't that hard, son. this young farmgirl, she got tired of all that attention goin' to her little brothers -- she fixed 'em. just like 'ole hazel dobkins fixed her whole family -- except young roxy here, she didn't use a wedding present. she used daddy's razor.

speaker1: it sure makes you wonder what they talked about when they set themselves down in front of the campfire at night. you ever met any of her friends who hasn't killed somebody. 
speaker1: it musta beat your ordinary everyday girl talk.
speaker2: i'm not sure anymore she did it.
speaker1: which one you talkin' about now, son? we know ole hazel did it; we know young roxy did it -- and the other one well, hell, she's got that magna come lawdy on her that done fried up your brain.

speaker1: anderson. jack w. donald m. i'm sorry. no lisa. 
speaker2: did you check all four years?
speaker1: yes i did.
speaker2: can you check again?
speaker1: no lisa anderson, detective.
speaker2: can there be some mistake?
speaker1: only if you're making it.

speaker1: hazel , this is nick. i told you all about him. this is hazel dobkins. 
speaker2: you're the shooter, aren't you? how are you?
speaker3: fine. thank you.
speaker3: can i talk to you a minute?
speaker1: honey, why don't you go in the car? i'll be right there.
speaker2: goodbye, shooter.
speaker3: you like to hang out with murderers or what? did you know roxy --
speaker1: of course i knew.
speaker1: look. sometimes when i do my research, i get involved with people. it happened with you, too.
speaker1: killing isn't like smoking. you can quit.
speaker1: i've go to go. i promised to get her home by six o'clock. she just loves "america's most wanted." america's most wanted? she turns to go.
speaker3: there was no lisa anderson at berkeley when you were there.
speaker1: what were you doing, checking up on me? what for? he says nothing. a long beat, she looks hurt.
speaker1: henderson.
speaker3: henderson. lisa henderson. with an h.
speaker3: you do?

speaker1: i can get my kicked for this. 
speaker2: it's not gonna take long, sam.
speaker2: bring it up, will you, sam?
speaker1: hey, that's dr. gardner, isn't it?
speaker2: bring 1976 up.
speaker2: you shouldn't leave your door open.
speaker3: i didn't. something's wrong with my lock.
speaker3: what do you want, nick?
speaker2: tell me about catherine.
speaker3: she told you, didn't she?
speaker2: what did she tell me, beth?
speaker3: i slept with her once in school. i was just a kid. i was experimenting. it was just that one time. she developed a... fixation... on me. she styled her hair like mine. she wore the same kind of clothes i did. it scared me.
speaker3: isn't that what she told you?
speaker2: she told me it was you. you wore the same kind of clothes. you dyed your hair blonde.
speaker3: i did dye my hair. it didn't have anything to do with her. i was a redhead for a while, too.
speaker2: did you know noah goldstein?
speaker3: i had him in two classes.
speaker2: you saw all the reports, beth! phil had you copied. you never said anything!
speaker3: what do i say -- hey, listen, guys, i'm not gay, but i did your suspect. i was embarrassed. it's the only time i've been with a woman.
speaker3: she's really sick you know. don't you know what she's doing? she knows i went to berkeley. she knows i knew noah. she makes up that story about me. she's handing you somebody who's obsessed with he her.
speaker2: she didn't hand you to me. she doesn't even know who you are. she told me about lisa henderson.
speaker3: she knew you'd find out who lisa henderson is. you're a good cop -- what did she do? tell you casually and make it seem irrelevant? did she tell you in bed, nick? that's how i'd do it.
speaker2: why did you change your name?
speaker3: i got married. he was on staff at the clinic. i was down in salinas. it didn't... last long.
speaker3: nick -- do you really think i... that i could kill someone... i never even met johnny boz. what about nilsen? what possible motive would i have to kill him?
speaker2: you should do something about this lock.
speaker3: she's evil. she's brilliant. be careful, nick.

speaker1: do i scare you, nick? 
speaker1: i just thought i'd surprise you. what's the matter?
speaker2: i found lisa henderson.
speaker1: did you? what's she doing?
speaker1: you're not going to tell me what she's doing. i thought we weren't playing games anymore.
speaker2: i did, too. she told me it was backwards -- she said you even styled your hair the way she did.
speaker1: and you believed her? i even went down to the campus police and made out a report about her.
speaker1: you still think i kill people, don't you?
speaker2: no.
speaker1: liar.

speaker1: who'd you say you were with? 
speaker2: homicide. san francisco.
speaker1: don't you guys communicate over there? you must be the same way we are.
speaker1: there was a report about lisa henderson -- january, 1977 -- the file's not here.
speaker2: what do you mean it's not here?
speaker1: san francisco p.d. detective nilsen. internal affairs. you know him? tell him we want it back. he's had it a whole year.
speaker3: so nilsen had a report on her -- so what. you don't know what the was in it?
speaker2: catherine told me what was in it.
speaker3: if she's telling you the truth.
speaker2: don't you get it, gus? if beth killed johnny boz to frame catherine -- she wouldn't want anyone to know what happened at berkeley. it gives her the motive to kill nilsen.
speaker3: how did she know nilsen knew about it -- if it happened?
speaker2: he was i.a. he probably asked her about it.
speaker3: she'd have to be nuttier than a twenty-pound christmas fruitcake. she's not the one who hangs out with multiple murderers -- your girlfriend is.
speaker2: she's a writer -- it's part of what she does.
speaker3: writers -- all they do is use up trees and ruin people's eyes. there's gotta be somebody at berkeley who knows what the happened.
speaker2: i know what happened. catherine told me what happened.
speaker3: you got tweety-birds flutterin' around your head, that's what you got. you think you're gonna like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after? oh, man.

speaker1: how'd you get in here? 
speaker2: i decided to give you one more chance. i missed you.
speaker1: you didn't not see me long enough to miss me.
speaker2: did you miss me?
speaker1: no.
speaker2: come over here and tell me no.
speaker1: no.
speaker1: that's below the belt.
speaker2: not yet it isn't.
speaker2: but we're getting there.

speaker1: i have to do some research tomorrow. 
speaker2: i'm very good at research. i'll help you.
speaker1: no thanks.
speaker2: what are you researching?
speaker1: i'm writing a book.
speaker2: really. what are you writing about.
speaker1: a detective. he falls for the wrong girl.
speaker2: what happens to them?
speaker1: they like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after.
speaker2: it won't sell.
speaker1: why not?
speaker2: somebody has to die.
speaker1: why?
speaker2: somebody always does.

speaker1: hi, i'm looking for a dr. gardner? 
speaker2: we don't have a dr. gardner on staff here.
speaker3: dr. joseph gardner?
speaker1: yeah.
speaker4: he died -- about five or six years ago.
speaker1: he was shot.
speaker5: he was walking home from work. they only lived a coupla blocks from the clinic. somebody drove by and shot him.
speaker1: what was the weapon?
speaker5: .38 revolver. never recovered.
speaker1: were there ever any suspects?
speaker5: no suspects, no motive. unsolved.
speaker1: was his wife ever a suspect?
speaker5: i had another one of you guys down here from frisco -- about a year ago -- he asked me the same question. what's this about anyway?
speaker1: routine.
speaker5: yeah, he said it was routine too. now it's two guys saying it's routine.
speaker1: do you remember his name?
speaker5: nope, can't say that i do.
speaker1: nilsen?
speaker5: that's him.
speaker1: was she ever a suspect?
speaker5: nope. there was some talk; it never panned.
speaker1: what kind of talk?
speaker5: the usual -- a girlfriend.
speaker1: he had a girlfriend?
speaker5: nope. she did. like i say. it never panned.
speaker1: thanks.
speaker5: i hope i helped you out.
speaker1: you did.

speaker1: hi. i missed you. i finished my research. 
speaker2: i finished my book.
speaker1: how did it end?
speaker2: i told you. she kills him.
speaker2: goodbye, nick.
speaker2: i finished my book. didn't you hear me? your character's dead. goodbye.
speaker2: what do you want, nick? flowers? i'll send you some flowers.
speaker1: what is this -- some kind of... joke? are we playing games again?
speaker2: the games are over. you were right. it was the of the century, shooter.
speaker3: catherine? nick looks -- hazel dobkins is there.
speaker2: right there.

speaker1: catherine tramell's roommate her freshman year. i got a call from her. i've been calling people who were in her dorm all day. she must've heard i was trying to talk to her. she says she knows all about catherine and lisa henderson. she's over in oakland. you wanna come with me? 
speaker1: you look like you seen a ghost, son?
speaker1: johnny boz's psychiatrist has an office on van ness. guess who he shares office space with? dr. elizabeth gardner.
speaker1: what in hell's the matter with you?
speaker1: where the you goin'?
speaker2: i'm going with you.
speaker1: she said alone -- suite 405. it ain't gonna take long.

speaker1: what are you doing here? 
speaker2: put your hands up!
speaker2: put your hands up! don't move.
speaker1: i got a message on my machine to meet gus here. where is he?
speaker2: don't! i know about your husband. you still like girls, beth?
speaker1: what?
speaker1: what is wrong with you?
speaker1: i loved you.

speaker1: what made you think she had a gun? 
speaker1: what the was she doing here? what was gus doing here? andrews yells to them from the stairway door.
speaker2: lieutenant.

speaker1: it's departmental issue. 
speaker2: 

speaker1: thirty-eight caliber revolver. 
speaker2: have ballistics check it for nilsen.
speaker3: lieutenant, you'd better come in here.
speaker2: i guess that's it.

speaker1: she must've heard you on the stairway and dumped the stuff. nick says nothing, stares off. 
speaker2: there was no suite 405 in that building. catherine tramell's roommate in her freshman year is dead. she died of leukemia two years ago.
speaker3: our files on dr. gardner show nothing about a police report in berkeley -- nothing related to salinas, either.
speaker4: thanks.
speaker4: ballistics says the .38 we found in her apartment matches nilsen. no registration. they're checking with salinas. the icepick is the same brand and model as the boz weapon. a long beat -- nick just stares.
speaker5: we checked the tape machines at dr. gardner's apartment and at her office -- both here and the one on van ness. no message from gus on any of 'em. the one at her apartment was broken. johnny boz's psychiatrist says he thinks he remembers dr. gardner and boz meeting at a christmas party at his house a year ago.
speaker1: you just can't tell about people, can you. even the ones you think you know inside-out.
speaker6: congratulations, curran.

speaker1: hi. 
speaker2: i heard about it... on tv.
speaker2: i can't allow myself to care about you -- i can't allow myself to care -- i can't -- i can't --
speaker2: i don't want to do this -- please -- i don't want to do this -- i lose everybody -- i don't want to lose you -- i don't want to -- he presses her closer and closer to himself, holds her.

speaker1: what do we do now, nick? 
speaker2: we like minks. we raise rugrats. we live happily ever after.
speaker1: i hate rugrats.
speaker1: i love you.

