BANKY: felt like this day would never come. issue two - on the shelf. 
HOLDEN: yippee.
BANKY: don't start, alright! this is a cool moment, and i'd appreciate you not trying to ruin it. how often does a guy get the opportunity to purchase something with his name on it! banky edwards- right! holden mcneil.
HOLDEN: i know my name.
BANKY: c'mon, sour puss. we got the rest of our lives to be artists. but it's supply and demand. and right now, the unwashed masses demand this.
HOLDEN: this is easy, alright! and right now it pays the bills. just don't forget that we're better than this.
BANKY: i'll tell you who we're better than: these two right here.
BANKY: alright old-maid's - take a break from the crazy-8's marathon and ring us up.
STEVE-DAVE: well, well,well, walt did you see who it is! the local celebrities. quick - get them to autograph one of their books so we can sell it for triple it's value.
WALT: i'm not that in need of fifteen cents right now.
BANKY: you guys operate the smallest, ladies' bridge circle i've ever seen.
WALT: for your information, we're playing dc1crimson mystical mages' - an overpower card game. not that either of you would give a about something as advanced as this - there are no *** or poopie jokes involved.
BANKY: i don't think they're fans.
WALT: no, we're not. you're both a couple of no talents that got lucky.
STEVE-DAVE: and obviously your handlers or hangers- on convinced you that your first comic was good which it was not it was thoroughly mediocre with a few spiky bits of dialogue. and when you get your foot in the door of the business, what do you do! you turn out a piece of *** like dc1bluntman and chronic'.
WALT: tell him, steve-dave.
STEVE-DAVE: dc1bluntman and chronic'. pah. what was that thing the little stoner pulled on the villain in the last issue!
WALT: the stinky-palm.
STEVE-DAVE: stinky-palm. you give comics a bad name i tell all my customers not to buy it, to spend their money on a real comic book.
WALT: one hit wonder, dime-store frank miller's.
STEVE-DAVE: this is the reality at comic-toast - you're not going to get your kissed here, because both me and walt think you suck.
WALT: and me.
STEVE-DAVE: i said that.
WALT: i've got a dragon card - forty power- ups and twelve life points! ha! i get your elf card!
STEVE-DAVE: you're such a but thankfully, i've saved a dark forces shaman card for just such an occasion.
WALT: you suck! eighty six life-power points to my twenty two!
STEVE-DAVE: i schooled their asses, now i'm schooling your's.
WALT: you know it was those two fucks! let's call the cops and have them busted! i know where their studio is! or better yet, let's sue! you can sue them, steve-dave!
STEVE-DAVE: that won't be necessary.
WALT: what?! why the not!
STEVE-DAVE: because this is a check for three times what that window cost. dc3dear critics - thanks for the insight. but like my grandmother always said - dc1*** 'em if they can't take a joke.. and break their window.' kiss it, banky the hack. p.s. - your card game ***.dc4
WALT: he said dc3kiss ***dc4!

FAN: could you sign it dc3to a really big fandc4! 
HOLDEN: you bet.
FAN: i love this book man! this shit's awesome. i wish i was like these guys - getting stoned, talking all raw about chicks and fighting supervillains! i love these guys! they're like dc1*** and chong' meet dc1bill and fed'!
HOLDEN: i like to of them as dc1rosencrantz and guildenstern' meet dc1vladimir and estragon'.
FAN: yeah! who!
COLLECTOR: so you draw this!
BANKY: i ink it and i'm also the colorist. the guy next to me draws it. but we both came up with the characters,
COLLECTOR: what's that mean - you dc1ink it'!
BANKY: well. it means that holden draws the pictures in pencil, and then he gives it to me to go over in ink
COLLECTOR: so you just trace!
BANKY: it's not tracing. i add depth and shading to give the image mere definition. only then does the drawing really take shape.
COLLECTOR: you go over what he draws with a pen - that's tracing.
BANKY: not really. next!
COLLECTOR: hey man. if somebody draws something and then you draw the same thing right on top of it, not going out-side the designated original art what do call that!
LITTLE KID: i don't know. tracing?
COLLECTOR: see?
BANKY: it's not tracing.
COLLECTOR: oh, but it is.
BANKY: do you want lour book signed or what?
COLLECTOR: hey - don't get all testy with him just because you have a problem with your station in life.
BANKY: i'm secure with what i do.
COLLECTOR: then say it - you're a tracer.
BANKY: how should i sign this?
LITTLE KID: i don't want you to sign it, i want the guy that draws bluntman and chronic to sign it. you're just a tracer.
COLLECTOR: tell him, little shaver.
HOLDEN: who do i sign it to!
COLLECTOR: all i did was call him a tracer!

HOLDEN: could you get him out of here! the security guards drag the collector away. 
COLLECTOR: hey, wait a sec! he jumped me! and you're dragging me away!! tracer!

HOLDEN: can i explain the audience principle to you! if you insult and accost them, then we have no audience. 
BANKY: he started it! cock-knocker! he's lucky i didn't put my pen through his thorax!
HOLDEN: need i remind you... curtain's in ten minutes.

HOOPER: for years in this industry whenever an african-american character - hero or villain - was introduced usually by white artists and writers - they got slapped with racist names that singled them out as negroes: black panther, black lightning, black goliath, black mantra, black talon, black spider, black hand, black falcon, black cat.. 
VOICE FROM CROWD: she's white.
HOOPER: she is?
HOOPER: now my book, dc1white-hating coon', doesn't have any of that the hero's name is maleekwa, and he's a descendant of the black tribe that established the first society on the planet, while all you european mother were still hiding in caves and all terrified of the sun. he's a strong role model that a young black reader can look up to, dc1cause i'm here to tell you - the chickens are comin' home to ***, ya'll: the black man's no longer gonna play the minstrel in the medium of comics and sci- fi/fantasy! we're keeping it real, and we're gonna get respect - by any means necessary! during the speech, holden and banky enter and sit up front.
HOLDEN: lando calrissian was a black man, and he got to fly the millennium falcon! hooper whips his head around, looking for the source of the comment
HOOPER: who said that?!?
HOLDEN: i did! lando calrissian is a positive black role model in the realm of science fiction/fantasy.
HOOPER: lando calrissian! uncle tom nigger! always some white boy gotta invoke dc1the ***'! bust this - those movies are about how the white man keeps the brother man down - even in a galaxy far, far away. check this you got cracker farm-boy luke skywalker, poster boy - blond hair, blue eyes. and then you've got darth vader: the blackest brother in the galaxy. nubian
BANKY: what's a nubian?
HOOPER: shut the up! now vader, he's a spiritual brother, with the force and all that then this cracker skywalker gets his hands on a light- saber, and the boy decides he's gonna run the universe - gets a whole klan of whites together, and they're gonna bust up vader's dc1*** the death star. now what the do you call that!
BANKY: intergalactic civil war!
HOOPER: gentrification. they're gonna drive our the black element, to make the galaxy quote, unquote dc1safe' for white folks.
HOLDEN: but vader turns, out to be luke's father. and in jedi, they become friends.
HOOPER: don't make me bust a cap in your ass, yo! jedi's the most insulting installment, because vader's beautiful, black visage is sullied when he pulls off his mask to reveal a feeble, crusty white man! they're trying to tell us that deep inside, we all want to be white!
BANKY: well isn't that true!

HOOPER: dc1what's a nubian!' ***, you almost made me laugh! hooper sounds different actually, he sounds gay. actually - he is. banky smiles. 
BANKY: well what about you! you didn't tell me you were going to scream dc1*** rage'. i nearly myself.
HOLDEN: how do you manage to get away with this all the time? shouldn't cops be busting your head open right about now?
BANKY: wrong coast.
HOOPER: well this right here - she full of blanks, okay. and opiate gets all sorts of legal clearances before i go on.
HOLDEN: your publisher condones these theatrics!
HOOPER: condones? honey, they insist. i need to sell the image to sell the book would the audience still buy the dc1black rage' angle if they found out the book was written by a.. a...
BANKY: faggot.
HOOPER: when you say if it sounds so sexy...
BANKY: hey, hey! i'll play your victim, but not your catcher.
VOICE: how is it that you sound like minister farakhan when you're on stage.. they turn to see...
ALYSSA: ...and the king of pop when you're nor.
HOOPER: look out, boys - this kitten has a whip.
ALYSSA: always before i get to speak! i swear - the next con i attend and they ask me to be on the minority panel, if i see your name anywhere near the list, i'm passing.
HOOPER: holden. banky - this pile of p.m.s. is alyssa jones. she does that book dc1idiosyncratic routine'. this is the fourth panel we've been on together, and even though she knows my publisher sets this up and pays for the event. she still gets mad when it ends with my act.
ALYSSA: i just wish i was the one who gets to shoot you.
HOOPER: that's what my father said when i came - nay - leapt out of the closet these boys do dc1bluntman and chronic', which outsells both of our books put together, hence they're never on a panel with the likes of us. they slumming right now.
BANKY: i've read your book. it's cute. chick stuff, but cute.
BANKY: what?
HOLDEN: sorry about him. he's dealing with being an inker.
ALYSSA: oh. you trace!
HOLDEN: i really enjoy your book i'm surprised we've never met at any other con's before.
ALYSSA: lose the or change your skin tone and we can get to know each other on panel after panel while the pink black panther here plays chuck d. for the fanboys.
HOOPER: hey, jealousy. i told alyssa i'd buy her a post-rave drink. do the garden-staters have to sprint to the lincoln tunnel, or can you stay for a round in the big, scary city!
BANKY: we're gonna take off soon...
HOLDEN: we'll go.
BANKY: we'll go.

BANKY: archie, alright! archie and the riverdale gang were a pure and fun- lovin' bunch. you can't find dysfunction in those comics, because they were just flat out wholesome. 
HOOPER: archie and jughead were lovers.
BANKY: shut the up.
HOOPER: it's true. archie was the and jughead was the butch - that's why jughead wears that crown-looking hat all the time: he the king, of queen archie's world.
BANKY: man, i feel a hate-crime coming on
HOLDEN: he's got a point. archie never did settle on betty or veronica.
BANKY: because he wanted them both at the same time, you assholes! he never chose one because he was trying to get both of them into a three-way!
HOOPER: here. i want you to go down to the corner store and buy yourself a clue. go on.
BANKY: eat it. urkel.
HOOPER: i told you to watch it with that urkel face it, girl - archie's a sister.
BANKY: that's it. you.
HOOPER: moi?
BANKY: you are marching back across the street with me, and we're going to pick up a load of archie books, i am going to prove to you - beyond the shadow of a doubt that archie was all about pussy. come on.
ALYSSA: is he always like that!
HOLDEN: for years now. started back in third grade - a nun was teaching us about the blessed trinity. she's going on about the three persons in one thing - father, son, holy spirit - and he just goes ballistic. i guess it was too big for him to grasp. they got into this huge fight.
ALYSSA: please. how bad could it have been!
HOLDEN: you ever seen a nun call a small child a dc1***'? wasn't pretty, like that's bound to happen when you make a kid wear a matching tie and slacks everyday.
ALYSSA: and your parochial school misadventures!
HOLDEN: limited to wine-tasting prior to mass. turned me into a grade school alcoholic altar boy. i couldn't tell you how many mornings after serous benders i'd wake up next to strange priests.
ALYSSA: aren't you the sharp wit!
HOLDEN: sharp! no. i'm just a fan of clergy- molestation humor. probably why the extended family quit inviting me to first communion parties.
ALYSSA: you play darts!
HOLDEN: not professionally. you know - only in bars.

ALYSSA: so your new book seems to be selling like mad. 
HOLDEN: it goes back to something my grandmother told me when i was a kid. "holden," she said "the big bucks are in and fart jokes." she was a church-goer.
ALYSSA: uh-oh - the cry from the heart of a real artist trapped in commercial - pitying his good fortune. i'm sure you can dry your eyes on all those fat checks you rake in.
HOLDEN: i'm sorry - did i detect a note of bitter envy in there!
ALYSSA: nope. i'm happy my stuff gets read at all. there's very little market for hearts and flowers in this spandex- clad, big pecs, big tits, big guns field. if i sell two issues, i feel like john grisham.
HOLDEN: it's all about marketing. over- or underweight guys who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter. people like those two outside should be yours. through the window, we see a couple making out on the hood of a car.
HOLDEN: and sadly, there are more of our core audience out there than yours. look at that, though - kind of gives you a little charge, to see two people in love. and all over banky's car, no less. that car's seeing more action right now than it's seen in years.
ALYSSA: bubbly guy like that, it's hard to figure out why.
HOLDEN: you've gotta respect that kind of display of affection. it's crazy, rude, self-absorbed - but it's love.
ALYSSA: that's not love.
HOLDEN: says you.
ALYSSA: that out there! that's fleeting.
HOLDEN: fleeting.
ALYSSA: uh-huh. you wanna hear about love! oh, i'll tell you about love.
HOLDEN: a story?
ALYSSA: the story. the original love story.
HOLDEN: 'doctor zhivago'.
ALYSSA: nope. my mother's uncle. he was a millionaire.
HOLDEN: get out.
ALYSSA: i kid you not.
HOLDEN: explain.
ALYSSA: all through high school, he dated this one girl. they were inseparable. and when they graduated, she went off to carnegie mellon...
HOLDEN: in pittsburgh.
ALYSSA: i'm impressed. so he stays in the home town, and they begin their long- distance relationship. the plan is, on the third sunday of every month, he'll train out, spend a week then train back they do this for four years.
HOLDEN: that is love.
ALYSSA: not nearly finished. two months before she's going to graduate, he's got this job digging graves, and he comes across...
HOLDEN: a stiff.
ALYSSA: a steamer trunk containing silver ingots.
HOLDEN: get out of here.
ALYSSA: many, many silver ingots. now, my mother's uncle being quite the ingenious chap - he buries the trunk again and heads up to the main office, where he proceeds to purchase a cemetery plot. guess which one?
HOLDEN: clever.
ALYSSA: so now he owns the plot and all of its contents. two days later, my mother's uncle is worth three million.
HOLDEN: at which time he marries the high school sweetheart and lives happily ever after.
ALYSSA: not even close. inside the steamer trunk, stenciled into the wood, or something like that, is a curse.
HOLDEN: someone wrote inside his new steamer trunk.
ALYSSA: not that kind of curse. a cryptic curse "great fortune means great loss" it said.
HOLDEN: what kind of writes that inside a steamer trunk!
ALYSSA: the same kind of that buries silver ingots. the day my mother's uncle is heading out to see the girl, he stops at his accountant's to grab some cash, and winds up missing his train. so he has to take the next one - which he does - and he gets there an hour later than his usual time of arrival, whereupon he sees lights.
HOLDEN: a hero's welcome for the new millionaire.
ALYSSA: it seems that while she was standing on the platform waiting that extra hour for my mother's uncle to show up, the girl was dragged into the bushes by an unknown assailant, raped and gutted.
ALYSSA: the assailant was never apprehended.
HOLDEN: that's a love story!!
ALYSSA: yes, and here's why: my mother's uncle rode that train every day for the rest of his life. one day up, the next day back. did that 'till the day he died. he donated the fortune he'd acquired to the train station in pittsburgh, to have a well-lit terminal built. the train line let him ride for free after that.
HOLDEN: i should hope so. that's the saddest tale i've ever heard.
ALYSSA: that's my love story.
HOLDEN: those two aren't on the hood of banky's car anymore.
ALYSSA: i told you it wasn't love. i gotta split. it was really nice meeting you. i wish you the best of luck with your book. tell hooper i'll call him later. and tell your friend to calm down.
BANKY: you're insane. archie is not mister weatherbee!
HOOPER: deny, deny, deny. where's alyssa?
HOLDEN: huh! oh. she left. she said she'd call you later.
BANKY: he's just offering to help archie with his homework!
HOOPER: read between the lines.
BANKY: this. let's go. traffic. holden!
HOLDEN: what!
BANKY: let's go.
HOOPER: d'jou see that dent in the hood of your car!
BANKY: what the...! son of a
HOOPER: let me guess: you like her!
HOLDEN: who?
HOOPER: miss alyssa jones.
HOLDEN: she's alright.
HOOPER: as long as that's all. maybe you can convince that partner of your's to drop me off downtown before you scurry out the tunnel!
HOLDEN: mister weatherbee wasn't really trying to archie, was he!
HOOPER: no. weatherbee was reggie's

BANKY: this is one of the best street lights you've ever drawn. 
HOLDEN: it's the one across from the post office.
BANKY: looks just like it.
HOLDEN: thanks. what do you wanna do tonight!
BANKY: get a pizza. watch 'degrassi junior high'.
HOLDEN: you got a weird thing for canadian melodrama.
BANKY: i've got a weird thing for girls who say 'aboot'.
HOLDEN: bank-hold-up.

HOOPER: hooper here. listen, i know how you burb-fiends hate the city, but there's a club shindig going down that i think you'd get into. 
HOLDEN: where is it?
HOOPER: place called her-sterectomy - i'm tempting as bar-keep.
HOLDEN: i don't know, hoop. we're prepping the next issue, and we've got our big m-tv meeting in the morning.
HOOPER: i told her you wouldn't be interested.
HOLDEN: told who?
HOOPER: alyssa.
HOLDEN: alyssa from last night alyssa?
HOOPER: how do you begin and end a question with the same word like that? you got skill. yes, that one. she asked me to invite you. now here's the part where you say...
HOLDEN: i'll be there.
HOOPER: thought so. ten o'clock. later.
BANKY: who was that?
HOLDEN: hooper. he invited me to a club.
BANKY: when's that going to learn - you like chicks.
HOLDEN: not that kind of a club.
BANKY: so when we leaving?
HOLDEN: 'we'? you can't go. he's setting me up with alyssa.
BANKY: and?
HOLDEN: and i don't want you messing it up.
BANKY: like i care about your maybe i'll hook up myself.
HOLDEN: i just told you - it's not that kind of club.
BANKY: how does one man get to be so funny!
HOLDEN: how are you going to get home if i hook up!
BANKY: like that'll happen.
HOLDEN: let me explain something to you, my witless chum the other night in that bar, we two - alyssa and i shared a moment, alright!
BANKY: oh, you had a moment!
HOLDEN: we shared a moment. and in that moment, one thing was made abundantly clear: this girl loves me, my friend. loves-me.

GUY: this is so watered down. it's terrible. why is it you can never get a decent drink in these places! 
GUY: what are you doing!
HOOPER: trying to find you a tissue.
BANKY: alright - bring on the free hootch.
HOOPER: as long as you don't about how little alcohol is in the drink. you owe me five sixty.
GUY: and i suppose you're going to make your friend here pay for his drink right!
BANKY: hey, i befriended a guy in a position of authority so i could abuse that authority and get free you want to do the same? there's a lonely hindu works at the'7-ll' across the street. get in tight with him.
GUY: i work at that '7-11'!
BANKY: wanna be friends!
HOOPER: where's your better half!
BANKY: taking a piss. guy's got a bladder like an infant.
HOOPER: that's funny - he says you're hung like an infant.
BANKY: must his mother tell him everything!
BANKY: what'd you do - fall in love?
HOLDEN: where is she?
HOOPER: over there...
OC HOOPER: been dancin' for an hour. hasn't stopped yet.
BANKY: she ain't no denny terrio, i'll say that.
HOOPER: wait. wait, wait - there's something you should know.
HOLDEN: she's got a boyfriend.
HOOPER: well.. no.
HOLDEN: then what's to know?
BANKY: there're a lot of chicks in this place.
HOOPER: 'chicks'. you're such a man.
BANKY: he didn't really say that about my dick, did he! on the dance floor - holden slips into the crowd and dances up to alyssa. he intentionally bumps into her.
HOLDEN: hey, hey, hey - you up my cabbage-patch!
ALYSSA: well, well, well - bluntman himself. or should i call you chronic!
HOLDEN: call me flattered. i heard you sent me the invite to this little soiree'.
ALYSSA: from a former home-town girl, to mister home-town himself.
HOLDEN: you're saying you're from the 'burbs!
ALYSSA: middletown, n.j.
HOLDEN: get out of here! i'm from highlands!
ALYSSA: i know. hooper told me.
HOLDEN: how is it that we never ran into one another?
ALYSSA: you graduate from hudson?
HOLDEN: yeah. eighty eight.
ALYSSA: i went to north. also eighty eight.
HOLDEN: what a small world. so you know the tri-town area!
ALYSSA: quiz me.
HOLDEN: miller hill?
ALYSSA: i wrote my name on the wall.
HOLDEN: sandy hook?
ALYSSA: lost my virginity there.
HOLDEN: this is so cool. the mall!
ALYSSA: eden prairie of menlo park!
HOLDEN: wait - here's the big test: quick stop!
ALYSSA: my best friend a dead guy in the back room.
HOLDEN: you know that girl!!
ALYSSA: i did. before she was committed.
HOLDEN: you know what this is! this is fate.
ALYSSA: no, this is the 'rog'.
HOLDEN: i was talking about us meeting - what are the chances!
ALYSSA: pretty slim. i haven't been back to the 'burbs since my friend's funeral.
HOLDEN: the quick stop girl died!
ALYSSA: another friend - julie dwyer. she died in the..
HOLDEN: y.m.c.a pool! you knew her too!
ALYSSA: so well.
HOLDEN: one friend in an asylum, the other friend in the grave. you're a dangerous person to know.
ALYSSA: but i can tap. that was the buffalo two-step.
HOLDEN: very solid.
ALYSSA: that's what six years of tap lessons yields.
HOLDEN: two towns away from each other for years and we had to meet in new york.
ALYSSA: coulda been worse - we could have not met at all.
OC SINGER: thank you. thanks.
SINGER: a long time ago, we used to have this bass player who took off one day to draw funny books or something. maybe you've seen her stuff - it's called 'idiosyncratic routine''
SINGER: but what a lot of people don't know is that she used to harbor these delusions that she could sing. and she used to subject us to these throaty renditions of debbie gibson tunes and insisting that we let her front on a few numbers. well, we didn't and she quit.. and then she got famous, the but she's here tonight, and i think if we all begged, or maybe offered her some x, she'd get up here and treat us to some of her vocal stylings. what do you say, alyssa?
SINGER: she's shy.
BANKY: this is so queer.
ALYSSA: she is such a twat.
ALYSSA: alright. i should dedicate this, right?
BANKY: now that, my friend, is a.. ...shared moment holden continues to stare - mouth agape.

BANKY: what?! 
HOLDEN: that's rude.
BANKY: man, when are we ever going to get a chance to see this kind of live without paying for it?
ALYSSA: uh-oh - better knock it off: we're getting a man excited.
HOLDEN: sorry. it's just... new to him.
BANKY: oh, and you're an old hand at this.
ALYSSA: no, i should apologize. i don't usually get all mushy in public. but it's been awhile since i've seen kim here.
KIM: tell me you didn't set that gross display up with the band just so you could nail me.
ALYSSA: like i'd have to go through that much effort
KIM: you know what! i want to dance.
ALYSSA: go ahead. i'll watch from here.
KIM: no. i want to dance with you.
ALYSSA: don't be such a rag. i have to sit here and work up the desire to you later.
KIM: please.
ALYSSA: yes?
BANKY: you said 'fuck'. to that girl. you said you'd her.
ALYSSA: and?
BANKY: how can a girl another girl! were you talking about strap-ons or something?
HOLDEN: would you shut up!!
BANKY: what!!? it's a valid question. you know the stuff in the penthouse letters section is written by guys - this is our chance to get the inside scoop.
HOLDEN: i don't know how many times i can apologize for him.
ALYSSA: it's okay. secretly, all i really want is to be the center of attention. i've never used a snap-on.
BANKY: then what's with saying 'fuck? shouldn't you say 'eat her out' or at least modify the term with something like 'fist'?
ALYSSA: let me ask you a question - can men each other!
BANKY: ask hooper.
ALYSSA: in your estimation.
BANKY: sure.
ALYSSA: so for you, to means to penetrate. you're used to the more traditional definition - you inside some girl you've duped, jack-hammering away, not noticing that bored look in her eyes.
BANKY: hey - i always notice the bored look in their eyes.
ALYSSA: 'fucking' is nor limited to penetration, banky. for me it describes any when it's not totally about love. i don't love kim, but i'll her. i'm sure you don't love every girl you sleep with.
BANKY: some of them i downright loathe.
ALYSSA: but i'll bet it's different with the ones you love. i'll bet you go the full nine when it's not just a quick fix - like you go down on them longer or something.
HOLDEN: here we go.
BANKY: i don't do that.
ALYSSA: what?!?!
BANKY: i stopped dropping. it got to be too frustrating.
HOLDEN: as stupid as you usually come off during this diatribe of your's, you're going to come off ten times as stupid on this occasion.
BANKY: what?! i lost my tolerance for the baggage that comes with eating girls out. what's the big deal?!
ALYSSA: if you say the smell, so help me, i'll slug you.
BANKY: not the smell - the smell is good. i'm talking about not being able to do it property. and my mother brought me up to believe that if i can't do something right i shouldn't do it at all. of course, my father told me she gave lousy head, but that's beside the point.
ALYSSA: at least you blame yourself for your sexual inadequacies.
BANKY: no, i blame them. chicks never help you out. they never tell you what to do. and most of them are self- conscious about that smell factor, and so most of the time they just lay there, frozen like a deer in the headlights, right? not for nothing, but when a chick goes down on me. i let her know where to go, and what the status is. you gotta handle it like cnn and the weather channel - constant updates.
HOLDEN: you're such an
ALYSSA: no, he's got a point. that's how i was in high school - i was nervous, and inhibited about being eaten out. but by the time i got to college, that all changed. i loosened up. not only did i learn to communicate - i learned to be bossy. i was like one of those guys at the airport with those big flash lights - waving them this way, directing them that way, telling them when to stop.
BANKY: and that's all i'm saying, it'd be different if chicks helped out - pointed a guy in the right direction. then there'd be no bullshit, no wasted time, and no chance for permanent injuries.
ALYSSA: permanent injuries?
BANKY: sure. you wanna see something permanent! i got this from nina rollins, sophomore year. i'm going down on her, and out of nowhere, her cat jumps on her stomach. she does this big ol' pelvic thrust - cracks my tooth in half, sends it down my throat. i had to get a crown for the stub.
ALYSSA: i got that beat. i got that beat. sophomore year. i'm going down on cynthia slater in her dorm room after we went club-hopping. i'm totally drunk, and in the middle of it, i fall asleep - right there in her lap. she got so mad, she digs her heel into my back, right there. that's permanent.
BANKY: you see this! that's the farthest i can move my neck to the right sophomore year, i'm going out with maria bennert, and for six months, i'm going down on her, and not a thing's happening. then one night, i change a position, or vary my lapping-speed, and suddenly it's a whole new world. she's moving around, convulsing, breathing heavy. and her legs are pressing against my ears so tightly that i don't hear her father come into the room. he grabs my hair... ...and he pulls me way back, hard.
ALYSSA: senior year. spring formal. i'm eating our missy kurt in her brother's car. she's laying across the back seat, and i'm half-hanging out of the car, my knees on the ground. she's flailing around, and she knocks the parking brake off. the car starts rolling down the hill, and my right knee is cut up all to like a kiddy's scissor class cut it up for paper dolls.
HOLDEN: holy is that the time. we've gotta beat traffic.
BANKY: what traffic - it's one thirty in the morning!
HOLDEN: and rush hour starts in six hours. let's go. thanks for inviting us out. it was... educational. alyssa waves at him as he exits. banky slides out of the booth.
BANKY: since you like chicks, right.. do you just look at yourself in the mirror all the time? holden reaches in and pulls banky out. alyssa watches them go, then turns and kisses kim.

BANKY: you're still dwelling on the dyke, aren't you? 
HOLDEN: lower your voice.
BANKY: what'd i tell you - she just needs the right guy. all every woman really wants - be it mother, senator, nun - is some serious deep-dicking.
BANKY: that's why i can't buy lesbians. everyone needs see, i can buy fags. bunch of guys that need - just plain need it? that i get. dykes? posturing. but - live and let live, i guess.
HOLDEN: i'm sure the gay community appreciates your support.
SLOSS: please tell me you haven't blown this deal already.
BANKY: sloss like a mother
SLOSS: hey, every mother but your's - a shyster's gotta have his standards. shall we?

EXEC 1: we just want to start off by saying that it's a pleasure to finally meet you. while it's been - shall we say - an experience dealing with sloss here, one of the main reasons we started this whole thing was to meet the guys that do 'bluntman and chronic'. 
EXEC 2: 'snootchie bootchies'.
EXEC 1: which brings us to our proposal: we are extremely interested in doing twelve, half-hour 'bluntman and chronic' cartoons. the age of beavis is coming to a close, and we're looking for something... something...
BANKY: even more retarded and juvenile to sate the voracious, intellectually- challenged miscreants that make up your key demographic.
EXEC 1: so what do you say! are we in business!
SLOSS: jim, sean - could we have a few minutes!
EXEC 2: uh... absolutely. we'll just..
EXEC 1: uh...wait outside
SLOSS: so? did i do good?
BANKY: you did better - you sold us out!
SLOSS: do you know how much you'll make on merchandising alone!
BANKY: money and power, and money and power...
SLOSS: money dnd power, and money and...
HOLDEN: i don't think it's a good idea.
BANKY: what's not a good idea! please don't say the cartoon, please don't say the cartoon...
HOLDEN: the cartoon.
SLOSS: what?!? are you out of your mind!
BANKY: john, let me handle this. you are out of your mind, aren't you!
HOLDEN: is this how you want to be remembered! as the guy who created bluntman and chronic!
BANKY: no, i'd like to be remembered as the filthy rich guy who created bluntman and chronic.
HOLDEN: but it'll be all glossy and main- stream. we'll lose any artistic credibility we ever had.
SLOSS: is it me! i don't see the problem.
BANKY: he just has to get over this crush of his.
SLOSS: oh - not on carrie fisher again! holden - she's not really a princess.
BANKY: not on her; on alyssa jones - the chick that does that comic book 'idiosyncratic routine'. you ever seen it?
SLOSS: please. like i even read your comic, let alone anyone else's, i'm not limited to offering you legal counsel only, my friend. i'm also learned in the ways of the heart, and can offer you this advice - nail her, get it out of your system, and move on. like we say at sloss law - good fences make good neighbors.
BANKY: she'd never let him in her yard. the chick's gay.
SLOSS: she's gay? you fell for a gay, comic- book writing chick? holden, you poor, poor man! wait a sec - does she have representation!
BANKY: always working, you. look at this - mrs. m-tv exec has a string of pearls hanging our of her ass,
SLOSS: would you leave his stuff alone! you can break her resolve, killer. all it takes is one good man. but if it takes two good men, don't hesitate to call me. that being said, in regards to the more pressing issue, i suggest you leave art to the museums and grab on with both hands to the big, fat check.
HOLDEN: i'll give it some thought
BANKY: i'm taking this as a precaution - just in case they give us any about decision delay. you'll 'give it some thought'. you're so retarded
HOLDEN: i'm retarded! this from the guy who only forty five minutes ago paid fifty bucks for what's supposed to be a boot- leg of 'march of the wooden soldiers' with a deleted scene of stan laurel wearing a french tickler.
SLOSS: how'd you fall for that!
BANKY: the guy who sold it to me had an honest face.

HOLDEN: twelve episodes. 
ALYSSA: that's great, isn't it?
HOLDEN: banky seems to think so.
ALYSSA: but you don't.
HOLDEN: i don't know if that's the perception i want people to have of our stuff. i know this sounds pretentious as hell, but i like to think of us as artists. and i'd like to get back to doing something more personal - like our first book.
ALYSSA: well when are you going to do that?
HOLDEN: as soon as we have something personal to say.
ALYSSA: do you know how pretty you are?
HOLDEN: what?
ALYSSA: you're a pretty man.
HOLDEN: uh... thanks.
ALYSSA: oh. i get it. i'm into girls, so i have to find all men repulsive or something.
HOLDEN: i didn't say anything.
ALYSSA: aren't there some men that you find attractive? granted, not enough to sleep with, but still - just handsome or something!
HOLDEN: sure. harrison ford. and our mail- man.
ALYSSA: well it's the same thing. i look at you and just find you really handsome. and you know, it has very little to do with your look, per-se. your look is fine, don't get me wrong. but it's more your outlook. the things you say, the way you see things. it's... i don't know... attractive, holden looks away, embarrassed,
ALYSSA: i weirded you our the other night
HOLDEN: huh! no, not really.
ALYSSA: come on.
HOLDEN: it's just that we've.., i mean, i've never seen that kind of thing up close and personal. it just took awhile to process, longer than usual.
ALYSSA: do you want to talk about it!
HOLDEN: um. if you want to.
ALYSSA: i like you. i haven't liked a man in a long time. and i'm not a man-hater or something. it's just been some time since i've been exposed to a man that didn't immediately live-into a stereotype of some sort. and i want you to feel comfortable with me, because i want us to be friends. so if there are things you'd like to know, it's okay to ask me.
HOLDEN: why girls?
ALYSSA: why men?
HOLDEN: because that's the standard
ALYSSA: if that's the only reason you're attracted to women - because it's the standard..
HOLDEN: it's more than that.
ALYSSA: so you've never been curious about men?
HOLDEN: curious about men? well... i always wondered why my father watched 'hee- haw'.
ALYSSA: you know what i mean.
HOLDEN: no.
ALYSSA: why not!
HOLDEN: no interest.
ALYSSA: because...?
HOLDEN: girls feel right.
ALYSSA: and that's how i feel. i've never really been attracted to men. i'm more comfortable with the idea of girls.
HOLDEN: wait, wait, wait - you're still a virgin?
ALYSSA: no.
HOLDEN: but you've only been with girls.
ALYSSA: you're saying a person's a virgin until they've had with a member of the opposite sex?
HOLDEN: isn't that the standard definition?
ALYSSA: again with the standards. i think virginity is lost when you make love for the first time.
HOLDEN: with a member of the opposite sex.
ALYSSA: why? why only then?
HOLDEN: because that's the standard.
ALYSSA: so if a virgin is raped, then she's still a virgin?
HOLDEN: of course not.
ALYSSA: but is not the standard. so she's had sex, but not the standard idea of sex. hence, according to your definition, she'd still be a virgin.
HOLDEN: okay, i'll revise. virginity is lost when the hymen is broken.
ALYSSA: then i lost my virginity at ten, because i fell on a fence post when i was ten, and it broke my hymen. now i have to tell people that i lost it to a wooden post i'd known my whole young life?
HOLDEN: second revision - virginity is lost through penetration.
ALYSSA: physical penetration or emotional?
HOLDEN: emotional?
ALYSSA: well, i fell in love hard with caitlin bree when we were in high school.
HOLDEN: physical penetration.
ALYSSA: we had sex.
HOLDEN: yeah, but not real sex.
ALYSSA: i move to have that remark stricken from the record. on account of it makes you come off as completely naive and infantile.
HOLDEN: well where's the penetration in lesbian sex.
HOLDEN: a finger? come on. i've had my finger in my but i wouldn't say i've had sex.
ALYSSA: did i hold up a finger?
HOLDEN: you're kidding?!?! how...?!?
ALYSSA: our bodies are built to pass a child, for christ's sake.
HOLDEN: but doesn't it hurt?!
ALYSSA: sure. but in a good way. and it's only a once-in-awhile thing - reserved for really special occasions.
HOLDEN: what about not-so-special occasions?
ALYSSA: tongue only.
HOLDEN: but how can that be enough? i mean, let's be real - how big can a tongue even get?
ALYSSA: let's go.
ALYSSA: come on.
HOLDEN: just...uh... just give me a moment.

HOLDEN: look at you. it's a two day trip. 
BANKY: i got the sega in one bag, my clothes in the other, and two months worth of unread comics in this one.
HOLDEN: we're going to a convention, for the love of we'll be busy from ten 'till eight each day. when are you possibly going to have time for any of that in fact, it - you're leaving some of this here in a locker. come on - give me the two that aren't clothes.
BANKY: hold on.
HOLDEN: what are you doing?
BANKY: i just have to get something.
HOLDEN: who are you, larry flynt? what are you going to do with all of those?
BANKY: read the articles. what do you think i'm going to do with them? they're stroke books.
HOLDEN: you've got like thirty books there! we're only there for two days!
BANKY: variety's the spice of life. i like a wide selection. sometimes i'm in the mood for nasty close-ups, sometimes i like them arty and air-brushed. some times it's a spread brown-eye kind of night, sometimes it's girl-on-girl time. sometimes a steamy letter will do it, sometimes - not often, but sometimes - i like the idea of a chick with a horse.
HOLDEN: go check us in. i've gotta call alyssa.
BANKY: his master's voice.
HOLDEN: put that stuff away.
KID: what are those?
BANKY: do you like horsies?
ALYSSA: i hope for the sake of the women you've dated that you're only this quick in returning calls.
HOLDEN: what's up? i'm about to get on a plane.
ALYSSA: ohhh. why!
HOLDEN: last minute invite to the dragon con'.
ALYSSA: 
HOLDEN: what?
ALYSSA: my sister's at my parents'. i was gonna go see her.
HOLDEN: the one that wrote the book?
ALYSSA: yeah. but i was staying all weekend, and i wanted to hang our with you. this
HOLDEN: you didn't get invited to the con'?
ALYSSA: i don't do southern con's - all the chicks have that annoying drawl. you know how hard it is nor to laugh when someone moans "fuhhk me"?
HOLDEN: well this you know - both of us don't have to go.
ALYSSA: really?
HOLDEN: yeah. banky can go by himself. it's not like we're on a panel. it was just a signing appearance.
ALYSSA: if you come pick me up, i'll be your best friend.
HOLDEN: where's your apartment?
ALYSSA: i'm not there. i'm at a friend's - in the village. corner of houston and mercer. number eighty six, apartment

HOLDEN: i'll be there in half an hour. 
ALYSSA: you're so easy.
BANKY: ...and then black beauty couldn't take it any longer, and he finally did some of his own mounting.
KID: wow.
HOLDEN: what are you doing?
BANKY: i think i want kids of my own one day. they're fun.
HOLDEN: listen to me - i'm not going. you're going to have to do this one by yourself.
BANKY: what? why?
HOLDEN: alyssa's coming down for the weekend, so i want to hang out with her. you don't need me for this. meantime, i'll take this stuff home. you can keep the filth. i'll pick you up at nine sunday night, alright? don't forget to plug the annual and don't mention the t.v. show, okay? call me if you get bored. and he's gone. banky stands there, open-mouthed. a
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: checking in, sir!
BANKY: hunhh! yeah. but this is carry-on.
F.A.: federal aviation security law requires me to ask if you've been given any strange gifts or parcels to carry-on since arriving at the airport today.
BANKY: not this trip. but one time, when i was using curb side check-in, this sky- cap gave me a ring and a set of ben-wa balls. i always thought that was pretty strange. he said his name was frank. hey! you're name's frank!
F.A.: kids.
EXT APARTMENT 6-D - DAY: holden knocks at the door. it opens. a woman is
WOMAN: let me guess - 'the right man'?
HOLDEN: excuse me?
WOMAN: you've got it in your head that alyssa's not really into chicks - that she just hasn't met the right man. and you believe you're it. you're going to treat her right, her like a stud, and 'straight-jacket' her back from the land of the lost. and the sad truth is that you'll accomplish none of that and wind up as either an even more bitter misogynist or a reverse fag-hag.
ALYSSA: don't mind her. that's just her way a saying hello.
WOMAN: actually, it's just my way of saying "give it up."
ALYSSA: you're such an
WOMAN: when you file the date-rape charges, don't say i didn't warn you.
HOLDEN: i'm holden, by the way.
WOMAN: i'm the voice of reason that miss is having such a hard time listening to.
HOLDEN: look, we're just friends.
WOMAN: that's what every guy says before he tries purring your hand on his
HOLDEN: and how do you know men so well?
WOMAN: because i lapdance for a living, dick- head.
ALYSSA: ohhh - you look so cute!
HOLDEN: who was that?
ALYSSA: just an occasional friend.
HOLDEN: why would you want to hang our with someone bitter as that?
ALYSSA: remember this! her's is even bigger than that.
EXT TURNPIKE - DAY: the car sits in traffic.
INT CAR - DAY: holden sighs. alyssa plays with the radio.
ALYSSA: you were raised catholic, right?
HOLDEN: yeah. you?
ALYSSA: baptist.
HOLDEN: really? did you have a strict upbringing?
ALYSSA: please there was no time to be bad - we were too busy saying 'jesus'.
HOLDEN: you think your upbringing had something to do with your lifestyle choice?
ALYSSA: somewhere along the line. it's a gradual transition to make - from doing what the majority does to taking a leap of faith and doing what feels more natural. everything helps - from the way you were handled as a kid, to the way the boys acted in third grade, to the shoes you wore at your freshman prom.
HOLDEN: shoes?
ALYSSA: well they were really tight.
HANGING OUT MONTAGE BEGINS: with the requisite music, over which we hear a conversation between holden and alyssa.
HOLDEN V.O.: let me ask you something - we get along, right?
ALYSSA V.O.: famously.
HOLDEN V.O.: we have a definite chemistry?
ALYSSA V.O.: so it would seem.
HOLDEN V.O.: but we're both into girls.
ALYSSA V.O.: i'm into women.
HOLDEN V.O.: but you weren't always gay.
ALYSSA V.O.: when i was nine i had a crush on scott baio.
HOLDEN V.O.: so if we'd met a long time ago, say in high school...
ALYSSA V.O.: ...i'd still be muff-diving, yes.
HOLDEN V.O.: thought so.

HOLDEN: come in. 
ALYSSA: i read somewhere that guys who play hockey are merely making up for penile deficiencies by carrying big sticks.
BANKY: i thought you lived in the city? this is like the umpteenth time i've seen you here. isn't that grounds enough for the little pink mafia to throw you out of their club?
HOLDEN: i'll be ready in a second. i just have to school this mouthy second-stringer.
BANKY: you're schooling no one.
HOLDEN: what? do something!
BANKY: you cock-teaser. i'll knock your teeth out and pass all over your ass.
HOLDEN: look at how slow you are. christ, you move like a geriatric.
BANKY: you cock-sucker, man! these faggots won't do what i tell them to!
HOLDEN: oh. it's the controller, right? it's always the controller.
BANKY: no, it's these... queers on blades that can't accept a pass to save their lives! what period is this?
HOLDEN: final sixty of the third.
BANKY: look at your guys, they... fuck!!!

ALYSSA: explain this again. 
HOLDEN: how could you have grown up down the shore and never played skee-ball? what did you do with your youth?
ALYSSA: stayed out late, smoked pot, screwed around.
HOLDEN: not your grade school years; your high school years.
ALYSSA: this looks complicated.
HOLDEN: the premise is very basic - you roll the ball up the ramp at varying speeds, in an effort to pop it into the score circles. the higher the score, the more prize tickets you get.
ALYSSA: what do you do with the prize tickets?
HOLDEN: trade them in for prizes that aren't worth nearly as much as you paid to play the game.
ALYSSA: then what's the point?
HOLDEN: it's fun.
ALYSSA: and you question my lifestyle.
HOLDEN: observe.
HOLDEN: see? it's just that simple.
ALYSSA: why not just walk up there and put it in the fifty every time?
HOLDEN: where's the skill in that?
ALYSSA: oh, this is a skill? i'm sorry, i had no idea.
HOLDEN: just toss one.
HOLDEN: thank you. underhand. throw it underhand.
ALYSSA: this is where you take straight chicks on dates?
HOLDEN: it's like spanish fly. this'll probably be the first time i don't score afterwards.
ALYSSA: i don't know. i'm starting to get a tingle in my bottom. ten.
HOLDEN: so what'd you do last night?
ALYSSA: got laid
ALYSSA: some more of that skill you were telling me about?
HOLDEN: maybe we should just leave before somebody gets hurt.
ALYSSA: no way. i want a cheap prize. so your friend's quite the homophobe.
HOLDEN: he just feels left out, i think.
ALYSSA: i'm not talking about his infantile hang-up with me. i'm talking about when you two were playing that game. everytime he swore - when his players messed up, he called them cocksuckers, he referred to the players as queers, he called you a cock-teaser...
HOLDEN: i thought he was talking to you.
ALYSSA: i know you think it means nothing, and it may in fact be unintentional, but it's ugly all the same.
HOLDEN: he was just he was losing.
ALYSSA: so he slams the gay community?
HOLDEN: c'mon. don't get all p.c. on me.
ALYSSA: i'm not. but what is that saying?
HOLDEN: it says he gets too easily frustrated.
ALYSSA: it's passive/agressive gay-bashing.
HOLDEN: how do you figure?
ALYSSA: how casually did it roll off his tongue? and that's how he expresses his anger? by calling people faggots?
HOLDEN: i think you're reading too much into it.
ALYSSA: i think you're just so used to it that it rolls off your back. i've heard the two of you play your little rank out game where one insists the other is gay. "you're a faggot. no, you're a faggot." it's cute and all to watch you go at it like grade-schooler, but it's also offensive - labeling and ducking the label of being gay as if it were the scarlet letter.
HOLDEN: you're blowing this way out of proportion. we live in a more tolerant age now. you refer to yourself as a dyke. hooper calls himself a all the time...
ALYSSA: yeah, but that's what's known as empowerment/disempowerment. i call myself a so it's not too devastating when some throwback screams it at me as i'm leaving a bar at night. same for hooper - by calling himself a faggot, he steals the thunder away from the mouthy jerks of this world who'd like to beat him to it. but the difference between us having it and your friend saying it is miles wide. we say it to mask the pain - you say it for lack of a better expression at any given moment. no holden, we do not live in a more tolerant age. and if you think that's the case, then you've been in the suburbs way too long to be resuscitated.
ALYSSA: but you know what? i have more faith in you than that. come on - i want my cheap prize.

HOLDEN: how bad do you suck! 
BANKY: how was your pseudo-date?
HOLDEN: leave it alone.
BANKY: that chick bugs me.
HOLDEN: aww. everyone bugs you.
BANKY: get off. faggot! did you see that?! your courting just got me scored on!
HOLDEN: you know, you should watch that. if you're going to get all bent out of shape while playing the game, so much so that you need to curse the t.v., try not to gay-bash it, alright. you're nor that kind of guy. and don't call her a dyke, alright? she's a lesbian. holden goes to his drawing table and takes off his coat. banky sits there, shocked. he puts the controller down and crosses to the drawing table.
BANKY: what the is going on here?
HOLDEN: i'm starting a new page.
BANKY: not with this with you. what the is going on with you and that girl?
HOLDEN: we're friends.
BANKY: she's programming you.
HOLDEN: i beg your pardon? programming?
BANKY: yeah. and apparently, you don't even realize it. what does it matter if i refer to her as a dyke, or if i call the whalers a bunch of faggots in the privacy of my own office, far from the sensitive ears of the rest of the world?
HOLDEN: it's passive/aggressive gay-bashing; and i know you're not really prejudiced at heart. you should just find some other way to express your anger, is all i'm saying.
HOLDEN: what the are you doing!
BANKY: bear with me here. i just want to put you through this little exercise. okay, now see this? this is a four way road, okay?
BANKY V.O.: and dead in the center, is a crisp, new, hundred dollar bill. now at the end of each of the streets, are four people, okay? you following? up here, we got a male-affectionate, easy- to-get-along-with, no political agenda lesbian. okay? now down here, we have a man-hating, angry-as-fuck, agenda-of-rage, bitter dyke. to this side, we got santa claus, right? and over to this side - the easter bunny.
BANKY: which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first?
HOLDEN: what is this supposed to prove?
BANKY: i'm serious. this is a serious exercise. it's like an s.a.t. question. which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first - the male-friendly lesbian, the man-hating dyke, santa claus, or the easter bunny?
HOLDEN: the man-hating dyke.
BANKY: good. why?
HOLDEN: i don't know.

HOLDEN: i don't need this. i'm going home. 
BANKY: she's with your mind, man! she knows you've got this schoolboy crush and she's using it to sway your way of thinking!
HOLDEN: and why would she need to do that? what is she mata hari?! what does she gain?
BANKY: maybe she thinks you'll get her comic picked up by contender. or maybe she thinks you'll change the content of our book to something more political and message oriented. or, gee - i don't know - maybe because that's just what dykes like to do: around with straight guys' heads, just so she can go back to her little rug-muncher club and have a good laugh with all her man-hating harpy cronies about how stupid and easily duped men are!
HOLDEN: you're so out of line right now..,
BANKY: you don't even know this girl! big deal, she's from middletown and she went to north! all the girls at north were and anyway! and this one's got them beat by a mile because she's a bitch/slut/dyke!
HOLDEN: watch your mouth, is all i'm going to tell you..
BANKY: oh why? do you get my back when she bashes me? because i know she does. and do you know why she does? because i won't play her game!
HOLDEN: sometimes your paranoia and suspicious is amusing. sometimes it's just annoying as piss!
BANKY: what is it about this girl? you know you have no shot at getting her into bed! why do you bother wasting time with her? because you're holden mcneil - most persistent traveller on the road that's not the path of least resistance! everything's gotta be a challenge for you, and this little relationship with that is a prime example of your condition. well i don't need a magic eight ball to look into your future; you want a forecast? here - will holden ever alyssa. what a shock - "not likely"! this relationship of your's is affecting you, our work and our friendship, and the time's going to come when i throw down the gauntlet and say it's me or her! and then what're you going to say?!
HOLDEN: i think you should let this one go.
BANKY: no, what would you say? would you trash twenty years of friendship because you've got some idiotic notion that this chick would even let you sniff her panties, let alone her?!
HOLDEN: let it go...
BANKY: what the fuck.. what the makes
HOLDEN: i'm in love with her, man.
BANKY: 

HOLDEN: i wish you were the one being pursued by m-tv. 
ALYSSA: oh really?
HOLDEN: sure. then you could sell our and maybe pick up the check once in awhile.
ALYSSA: we're leaving!
HOLDEN: well it's not like this is a bed and breakfast,
ALYSSA: i've got a little business to conduct.
ALYSSA: are you an authorized deal-maker in this establishment? do you have the power to negotiate.
CASHIER: you wanna haggle over the price of your french dip?
ALYSSA: i want to haggle over the price of fine art.
CASHIER: what do you mean?
ALYSSA: there. by the kitchen. that painting.
CASHIER: what about it?
ALYSSA: the price tag says seventy five.
CASHIER: so!
HOLDEN: tell me you're kidding!
ALYSSA: i'll give you fifty.
CASHIER: manuel! bring, me the dyksiezski off the wall. all my years in the diner business, i've waited for this day - the day when someone wanted to buy one of the pictures.
ALYSSA: alyssa jones. pleased to meet you.
CASHIER: you say you want to haggle, but you don't know rule one about haggling, which you just broke: you never give your name. the name is power, and to give the opponent that piece of you is to give away victory.
ALYSSA: i'm only trying to conduct a transaction. we're not opponents.
CASHIER: accepting painting from
BUSBOY): oh, but we are - if you think i'm letting this beautiful piece go for fifty.
ALYSSA: ah-ha! now we're haggling.

HOLDEN: i've always wondered what kind of people buy those things. i can't believe you talked him down to twenty five! 
ALYSSA: it was looking shakey when he told me the artist was a blind cripple with a hump-back, but i held my ground. there's no room for sympathy in the buyer's market.
HOLDEN: where are you going to hang it?
ALYSSA: i'm not. you are.
HOLDEN: you want me to hang it for you? you better hope it doesn't get out to the girl-nation that you needed a man to help you hang a picture.
ALYSSA: you're going to hang it in your house. i bought it for you.
HOLDEN: yeah, right.
ALYSSA: i'm serious.
HOLDEN: why?
ALYSSA: because it's captured the moment. it'll be a constant reminder - not just of tonight, but of our introduction, the building of our friendship, everything. make no mistake about it my friend - it's a gift to you, from me, so you'll always remember us.

INT CAR - NIGHT: holden throws the car into park 
ALYSSA: why are we stopping?
HOLDEN: because i can't take it.
ALYSSA: can't take what?
HOLDEN: i love you.
ALYSSA: you love me.
HOLDEN: i love you. and not in a friendly way, although i think we're great friends. and not in a misplaced affection, puppy-dog way, although i'm sure that's what you'll call it. and it's not because you're unattainable. i love you. very simple, very truly. you're the epitome of every attribute and quality i've ever looked for in another person. i know you think of me as just a friend and crossing that line is the furthest thing from an option you'd ever consider. but i can't do this any longer. i can't stand next to you without wanting to hold you. i can't look into your eyes without feeling that longing you only read about in trashy romance novels. i can't talk to you without wanting to express my love for everything you are. i know this will probably queer our friendship - no pun intended - but i had to say it, because i've never felt this before, and i like who i am because of it. and if bringing it to light means we can't hang out anymore, then that hurts me. but i couldn't allow another day to go by without getting it out there, regardless of the outcome, which by the look on your face is to be the inevitable shoot- down. and i'll accept that but i know some part of you is hesitating for a moment, and if there is a moment of hesitation, that means you feel something too. all i ask is that you not suppress that - at least for ten minutes - and try to dwell in it before you dismiss it. there isn't another soul on this planet who's ever made me the person i am when i'm with you, and i would risk this friendship for the chance to take it to the next plateau. because it's there between you and me. you can't deny that. and even if we never speak again after tonight, please know that i'm forever changed because of you and what you've meant to me, which - while i do appreciate it - i'd never need a painting of birds bought at a diner to remind me of.
HOLDEN: was it something i said?

HOLDEN: what are you doing? 
ALYSSA: get back in the car and get out of here.
HOLDEN: you're going to hitch to new york?
ALYSSA: y'ep.
HOLDEN: aren't you at least going to comment?
ALYSSA: here's my comment you.
HOLDEN: why?
ALYSSA: that was so unfair. you know how unfair that was.
HOLDEN: it's unfair that i'm in love with you?
ALYSSA: no, it's unfortunate that you're in love with me. it's unfair that you felt the need to unburden your soul about it. do you remember for a second who i am?
HOLDEN: so? people change.
ALYSSA: oh, it's that simple? you fall in love with me and want a romantic relationship, nothing changes for you with the exception of feeling hunky- dorey all the time. but what about- me? it's not that simple, is it? i can't just get into a relationship with you without throwing my whole world into upheaval!
HOLDEN: but that's every relationship! there's always going to be a period of adjustment.
ALYSSA: period of adjustment?!?

HOLDEN: if this is a crush... then i don't know if i could take the real thing if it ever happens. 
ALYSSA: go home, holden.

ALYSSA: i take it that's not good. 
HOLDEN: stay here.

BANKY: catholic school girls. 
BANKY: the uniform is what does it for me. i wish i'd have went with more catholic school girls when i was a kid. as it stands. i have no "...and then she unzipped her jumper..." stories.
HOLDEN: you looked weirded out back there.
BANKY: that's my couch you were on.
HOLDEN: sorry.
BANKY: i wanted to watch some tv. hard to do when your best friend's wrapped around a naked rug-muncher on your couch.
HOLDEN: she had boxers on.
BANKY: this is all going to end badly.
HOLDEN: you don't know that.
BANKY: i know you. you're way too conservative for that girl. she's been around and seen things we've only read about in books.
HOLDEN: but we have read about them. so we're prepared.
BANKY: there's no 'we' here. you're going to have to go through this alone. and it's one thing to read about and something different when you're forced to deal with it on a regular basis. when you guys are walking in the mall and both your heads turn at a really nice looking chick, it's going to eat you up inside. you'll spend most of your time wondering when the other shoe's going to drop. because for you, this isn't about cool weird stuff, it's about love.
HOLDEN: maybe it is for her as well.
BANKY: somehow i doubt it.
HOLDEN: everyone's not out to get someone in life. bank.
BANKY: everybody has an agenda. everyone.
HOLDEN: yourself?
BANKY: my agenda is to watch your back.
HOLDEN: to what end?
BANKY: to insure that all this time we've spent together, building something, wasn't wasted.
HOLDEN: she's not going to ruin the comic.
BANKY: i wasn't talking about the comic. i'm going to gel a bagel. clean off my couch so i can watch tv.

DALIA: from what i understand, when you sign with a publisher, someone else does all this work for you, and you just sit back and collect. 
ALYSSA: and miss these last minute cram sessions with my nearest and dearest? never.
TORY: i don't know what she's about. all she's done since we got here is pound merlot.
DALIA: i'm sorry weren't you the one who misspelled 'receipt' on page eighteen? yeah, you're a real help.
NICA: what i'd like to know is why we're here at all when we haven't seen princess funny-book in a month.
JANE: yeah alyssa - who've you been shacking up with?
ALYSSA: 'shacking up!' please. i'm so in love!
ALYSSA: i know. i know -i feel like such a goon. but i can't help it - we have such a great time together.
DALIA: who is it? don't even tell me it's ms. thing from the c.d. place. i'll kill you.
ALYSSA: it's not her. it's someone you guys don't know.
NICA: that chick you left the restaurant with that night?
ALYSSA: they're not. from around here.
TORY: don't even tell me you met her down the shore!
JANE: eww! not a bridge-and-tunnel jersey dyke!
TORY: with huge hair and acid-washed jeans!
DALIA: come on, alyss - hoboken hussy or what?
ALYSSA: for your information, they don't have big hair or wear acid wash. they're from my home town.
DALIA: why are you playing the pronoun game?
ALYSSA: what? what are you talking about? i'm not even.
DALIA: you are. "i met someone." "we have a great time. "they're from my home town." doesn't this tube of wonderful have a name!
ALYSSA: holden.
JANE: oh, alyssa - no. not you.
TORY: you're dating a guy?
ALYSSA: he's not like a typical man. he's really sweet to me, and we relate so well. you guys'd love him, really.
DALIA: i've gotta go to the store.
JANE: i'll go with.
TORY: whelp - here's to both of you. another one bites the dust.

HOLDEN: can i ask you something? 
ALYSSA: don't even tell me you want to do it again.
HOLDEN: why me - you know? why now?
ALYSSA: because you were giving me that look, and i got wet...
HOLDEN: you know what i'm talking about.
ALYSSA: why not you?
HOLDEN: i'm a guy. you're attracted to girls.
ALYSSA: i see you've been taking notes. historically, yes that's true.
HOLDEN: then why this?
ALYSSA: i've given that a lot of thought, you know? i mean, now that i'm being ostracized by my friends, i've had a lot of time to think about all of this. and what i've come up with is really simple: i came to this on my terms. i didn't just heed what i was taught, you know? men and women should be together, it's the natural way - that kind of thing. i'm not with you because of what family, society, life tried to instill in me from day one. the way the world is - how seldom you meet that one person who gets you... it's so rare. my parents didn't really have it. there was no example set for me in the world of male/female relation ships. and to cut oneself off from finding that person - to immediately half your options by eliminating the possibility of finding that one person within your own gender... that just seemed stupid. so i didn't. and by leaving my options open, i was branded 'gay', which to me was no big deal - labels are labels, you know? they define what you do, not who you are, i guess. but then you come along. you - the one least likely; i mean, you were a guy.
HOLDEN: still am.
ALYSSA: and while i was falling for you, i put a ceiling on that, because you were a guy. until i remembered why i opened the door to women in the first place - to not limit the likelihood of finding that one person who'd compliment me so completely. and so here we are, i was thorough when i looked for you, and i feel justified lying in your arms - because i got here on my terms, and have no question that there was someplace i didn't look. and that makes all the difference.
HOLDEN: 
ALYSSA: what?
HOLDEN: well, you took the luster our of it.
ALYSSA: what luster?
HOLDEN: of how i brought you back from the other side. how all you needed was the right man to turn you around.
ALYSSA: you're not the right man. you're just the one.
HOLDEN: can i at least cell people that all you needed was some serious deep- dicking?

BANKY: check out page forty eight. 
HOLDEN: so?
BANKY: did you see the nickname?
HOLDEN: 'finger cuffs'.
BANKY: and...?
HOLDEN: and... she had a weird nick-name. what's your point?
BANKY: do you know why it's 'finger cuffs'?
HOLDEN: i suppose you do.
BANKY: i do. you remember cohee lundin? left hudson and went to north our senior year?
HOLDEN: yeah.
BANKY: well, i ran into him at food city the other day, and we got to talking, and i mentioned that you were dating alyssa, and he said..
COHEE: alyssa jones? i know alyssa jones. i mean, i know alyssa jones, you know what i'm saying? me and rick derris used to hang our with her for awhile, right? just hanging around her house after school, 'cuz her parents were like never home, and and one day, rick just whips it out, and starts rubbing it on her leg and shit; chasing her around the living room - i was dying. but you know what the crazy did? she drops to her knees, and just starts sucking him off right in front of me! like i wasn't even there man! i almost died! but that's not the up part - the up part was rick, man - right in the middle of it, he turns to me and he's pointing at her and he says "cohee." just like that - "cohee." so i'm like i'll give it a shot. and i start pulling her pants down all slow, 'cuz i figure any second she's gonna turn around and belt me in the mouth, right? but yo, check this out - she's all into it man! she don't try to stop me or nothing! she's all wet and and i just went to work, know what i'm saying? me and rick are going to town on this crazy and she's just loving it, all moaning and it was up! so rick's the one that came up with the nickname - 'cuz that day, she had us locked in tight from both sides - like a pair of chinese finger cuffs!
HOLDEN: he's full of
BANKY: cohee's a lot of things, but an exxagerator he's not. the dude's catholic.
HOLDEN: she's never even been with a guy.
BANKY: that's what she says. but i say her on her hands and knees getting filled out like an application constitutes 'being with a guy'.
HOLDEN: he's pulling your chain. and the fact that you even bought it for a second makes you look like an
BANKY: i'm getting your back, asshole! people don't forget like 'finger cuffs'. and if it got out that she's queer as well, how do you think it's going to make you look?
HOLDEN: i give a what people think.
BANKY: alright, forget about that; what if she's carrying a disease? that was just one story - what if there's more?
HOLDEN: you're such a
BANKY: what? oh, it's not possible that she's all crudded up? cohee i can vouch for as clean - the dude never got laid in high school. but derris is an arch bush-man! name me one chick in our senior class that rick derris didn't nail, for christ's sake!
HOLDEN: would you let this go? i'm telling you - she's never even been with a guy, let alone those two zeroes.
BANKY: and i'm telling you, the could be a bigger germ farm than that monkey in 'outbreak'!
HOLDEN: give it a rest! do you hear me?! i'm tired of this she's my girlfriend, do you understand?! show her a little respect! and if you ever even so much as mention that alyssa looks a little peaked from now on, i'll put your teeth down your throat! he releases banky. banky brushes himself off.
BANKY: maybe i'll put your teeth down your throat.
HOLDEN: not likely.
BANKY: i've been working out you know! you better be ready to make that m-tv deal! the downstairs door slams. banky makes a muscle, then feels it.
INT TOWER RECORDS - DAY: holden and hooper peruse laser discs.
HOOPER: where's that partner of your's been?
HOLDEN: sulking. he's having a real problem with this alyssa thing.
HOOPER: i think it's more like banky's having a problem with all things not hetero right about now. and i'm just another paradigm of said aberration.
HOLDEN: banky does not hate gays, you know that.
HOOPER: but i do think he is a bit homophobic. and this latest episode between you and ms. thing has tapped into that. in his warped perception, he lost you to the dark side - which is she.
HOLDEN: you make it sound like me and him were dating.
HOOPER: don't kid yourself - that boy loves you in a way that he's not ready to deal with.
HOLDEN: he's been digging up dirt on alyssa.
HOOPER: and just what has mister angela lansbury uncovered about your lady fair?
HOLDEN: he heard some story that she took on two guys.
HOOPER: really? well then he's barking up the wrong we if he wants to split you up, isn't he? he's not going to make you see the error of your ways by pointing out how truly gay she's not this one?
HOLDEN: have it. actually, it's kind of gotten to me.
HOOPER: how so?
HOLDEN: banky's not known for believing misinformation. he's got a pretty good detector.
HOOPER: so, what if it is true? would that bother you?
HOLDEN: with multiple partners?
HOLDEN: at the same time.
HOLDEN: thanks for being so comforting.
HOOPER: so what do you care?
HOLDEN: well that's the thing, isn't it? i shouldn't.. but it gets to me.
HOOPER: kind of gal alyssa is, you don't think she's been in the middle of an all - girl group-grope?
HOLDEN: you see - that doesn't bother me. but the thought of her and guys... uh!
HOOPER: oh holden, i beg you - please don't drop fifty stories in my opinion of you by falling prey to that latest of trendy beasts.
HOLDEN: which is?
HOOPER: lesbian chic. it's oh-so acceptable to be a gay girl nowadays. people think it's cute, because they've got this fool picture in their heads about lipstick lesbians - like they all resemble alyssa - while most of them look more like you.
HOLDEN: do i detect a little inter-subculture cattiness?
HOOPER: gay or straight - ugly's still ugly. and most of those boys are scary.
HOLDEN: i thought were all supposed to be super-supportive of one another.
HOOPER: screw that 'all for one' i gotta deal with being the minority in the minority of the minority, and nobody's supporting my ass? while the whole of society is fawning over girls- on-girls, here i sit - a reviled gay man, and to top that off, i'm a gay black man - notoriously the most swishy of the bunch.
HOLDEN: three strikes.
HOOPER: hey, hey! there's a line.
KID: are you hooper x?
HOOPER: a-salaam alaikum, little brother.
KID: could you sign my comic?
HOOPER: see that guy there? he's the devil, you understand? never take your eye off the man. our people took their eyes off him one time, and he had us in chains in two shakes of his snake's tail.
HOOPER: fight the power, little 'g'.
KID: word is bond
HOOPER: look at what i have to resort to for professional respect. what is it about gay men that terrifies the rest of the world. as for this hang-up with alyssa's past, maybe what's really bothering you is that your fragile fantasy might not be true.
HOLDEN: what do you mean?
HOOPER: holden - don't even try to come off like you don't know what i'm saying. men need to believe that they're marco polo when it comes to - like they're the only ones who've ever explored new territory. and it's hard not to let them believe it. i let my boys run with it for awhile - feed them some of that "i've never done this before..." bullshit, and let 'em labor under the delusion that they rockin' my world, until i can't stand them anymore. then i hit 'em with the truth. it's a sick game. the world would be a better place if people would just accept that there's nothing new under the sun, and everything you can do with a person has probably been done long before you got there.
HOLDEN: i can accept that.
HOOPER: honey, that almost sounded convincing. do yourself a favor - just ask her about her past, point blank. get it out of the way, before it gets too big for both ya'll to move. oooh! 'myra breckinridge'!

ALYSSA: since most of these people are rooting for the home team, i'm going to cheer for the visitors. i'm a big visitors fan - especially the kind that make coffee for you in the morning before they go. that was a joke. a little wacky wordplay? 
HOLDEN: what do you mean, 'visitors'?
ALYSSA: was i being too obscure? the kind that - until recently - had no and would spend the night.
HOLDEN: so that was until recently!
ALYSSA: oh, yeah. hey - foul! foul! he was traveling or something!
HOLDEN: so nobody bur me has stayed the night at your place since we got together?
ALYSSA: something on your mind, holden?
HOLDEN: no, i was just wondering,
ALYSSA: if i've been 'faithful' or something?
HOLDEN: look, i was just asking.
ALYSSA: oh, sweetie. i only have eyes for you.

HOLDEN: that'd make banky half right. 
ALYSSA: about what?
HOLDEN: he said all the girls from north were and sluts.
ALYSSA: really. i'm sorry - you two left high school behind how many years ago? can i put some of my books in your locker?
HOLDEN: how about your yearbook.

HOLDEN: what's with 'finger cuffs'? 
ALYSSA: 'finger cuffs'?
HOLDEN: yeah. in your senior yearbook your nickname was 'finger cuffs'. what is that?
ALYSSA: it was? if i can remember. i'd look it up, but i threw all that our years ago? where'd you see a north yearbook?
HOLDEN: do you know rick derris?
ALYSSA: rick? sure. we used to hang out in high school.

HOLDEN: did you go out with him or something? 
ALYSSA: date rick derris? no. we just hung out a lot.
HOLDEN: just... you and him?
ALYSSA: no. me, rick, and... um... what was that guy's name...?
HOLDEN: cohee?
ALYSSA: yeah! cohee lundin. i haven't thought about that name in years.
ALYSSA: i remember those guys'd come over almost everyday after school. they'd bug my sisters, look for tapes in my dad's closet, raid our fridge. they really took advantage of my parents never being home.
HOLDEN: rick pulled his out? really? what'd you do?
HOLDEN: excuse me!?!
ALYSSA: that's what you wanted to hear, isn't it? isn't that what this little cross- examination of your's is about? well try not to be so obvious about it next time, there are subtler ways of badgering a witness. am i right?
BYSTANDER: jeez, even i knew what you were getting at.
ALYSSA: if you wanted some background information on me, all you had to do was ask - i'd have gladly volunteered it. you didn't have to play hercules poirot! she storms away. holden chases after her. the bystander watches them go.
BYSTANDER: i told you these were good seats.

HOLDEN: so it's true?! 
ALYSSA: yes holden! in fact, everything you heard or dug up on me was probably true! yeah, i took on two guys at once! you want to hear some gems you might not have unearthed - i took a twenty six year old guy to my senior prom, and then left halfway through to have with him and gwen turner in the back of a limo! and the girl who got caught in the shower with miss moffit, the gym teacher? that was me! or how about in college, when i let shannon hamilton videotape us having - only to find out the next day that he broadcast it on the campus cable station?! they're all true - those and so many more! didn't you know? i'm the queen of urban legend!
HOLDEN: how the could you do those things?!
ALYSSA: easily! some of it i did out of stupidity, some of it i did out of what i thought was love, but - good or bad - they were my choices, and i'm not making apologies for them now - not to you or anyone! and how dare you try to lay a guilt trip on me about it - in public, no less! who the do you think you are, you judgemental prick?!
HOLDEN: how am i supposed to feel about all of this?
ALYSSA: how are you supposed to feel about it? feel what ever the you want about it! the only thing that really matters is how you feel about me.
HOLDEN: i don't know how i feel about you now.
ALYSSA: why? because i had some sex?
HOLDEN: some sex?
ALYSSA: yes, holden - that's all it was: some sex! most of it stupid high school sex, for christ's sake! like you never had in high school!
HOLDEN: there's a world of difference between typical high school and two guys at once! they used you?
ALYSSA: i used them! you don't think i would've let it happen if i hadn't wanted it to, do you?! i was an experimental girl, for christ's sake! maybe you knew early on that your track was from point 'a' to 'b' - but unlike you i wasn't given a map at birth, so i tried it all! that is until we - that's you and i - got together, and suddenly, i was sated. can't you take some comfort in that? you turned out to be all i was ever looking for - the missing piece in the big puzzle! look i'm sorry i let you believe that you were the only guy i'd ever been with. i should've been more honest. but it seemed to make you feel special in a way that me telling you over and over again how incredible you are would never get across.
ALYSSA: do you mean to tell me that - while you have zero problem with me sleeping with half the women in new york city - you have some sort of half-assed, mealy-mouthed objection to pubescent antics, that took place almost ten years ago? what the is your problem?!?
HOLDEN: i want us to be something that we can't.
ALYSSA: and what's that?
HOLDEN: a normal couple.

OC VOICE: yo, look at this morose mother here.. 
JAY: smells like somebody in his cereal.
HOLDEN: what took you so long?
JAY: we were at the mall. you bring the salad?
JAY: man, this likeness rights is more profitable than selling smoke.
HOLDEN: how'd a dirt merchant like you ever learn about likeness rights?
JAY: we deal to a lot of lawyers. speaking of which... little signing bonus and
HOLDEN: i'll pass. take a look at the issue.
JAY: yeah. when you gonna get some in that book, man! throw some super- villain in with big that shoot milk or something, and i just drink her dry, bust some moves on her... ...and then she has to me. us.
HOLDEN: i'll see what i can do.
WAITRESS: what can i get you.
HOLDEN: nothing, thanks.
JAY: yo flo - tell mel to whip me up a toasted bagel and cream cheese. you want one too? make that two. and kiss my grits. noonch. d'jever watch 'alice'? that show's good as hell. so why the long face, horse? banky on the rag?
HOLDEN: when is he not? no - i'm just having some girl trouble.
JAY: pressing charges? i get that a lot.
HOLDEN: no. i'm just at a point where i don't know what to do.
JAY: kick her to the curb. girls get to be too much trouble, there's always the 'band of the hand'.
HOLDEN: can't do it, g. i'm in love.
JAY: ah, there ain't no such thing. you gotta boil it all down to the essentials. it's like cube says - life ain't nothing but and money.
HOLDEN: just what i needed - advice from the 'hood
JAY: who is this girl?
HOLDEN: i don't think you know her.
JAY: come on man - i'm people who know people.
HOLDEN: you sound like barbra streisand.
JAY: that's 'cause i got this tubby playing her greatest hits tape in my ear all the time. you should see him: she starts singing 'you don't bring me flowers', this starts crying like a little girl with a skinned knee and it's embarrassing. i got the only muscle in the world with a weakness for ballads. you big softie. so what's this skirt's name!
HOLDEN: i'm telling you, you don't know her.
JAY: i ain't playing. tell me her name, mysterio.
HOLDEN: alyssa jones.
JAY: finger cuffs?
JAY: you're dating finger cuffs? wait a minute i thought she was all gay and
HOLDEN: she is. or was. i don't know.
JAY: and you go out with her? man - you're a lucky dog. she bring other chicks to bed with you, get a little of that filet o' fish sammich going on?
JAY: yeah - you know what i'm talking about, baby. so - four tits, or what?
HOLDEN: it's not like that.
JAY: well what's it like then?
HOLDEN: right now? i don't know. i love her. but she has a past
JAY: i'll say. stuffin' two guys, eating chicks out. yo - i heard one time, she had this dog...
HOLDEN: eat your bagel already!
JAY: look at this touchy mother right here. so, if you're all in love with her, what's the problem?
HOLDEN: the problem is like that. it was one thing when it was just girls - that was weird enough. but now you throw guys into the mix - two guys at once, no less. all that experience...what am i supposed to think?
JAY: you think good; because now she'll be all true blue and the girl's tasted life, yo. now she's settlin' for your boring, funny-book-makin' ass.
HOLDEN: settling. that's comforting, jay. thanks.
JAY: that's what i'm here for.
HOLDEN: i'm having a problem with all of it i can't get it out of my head these visuals of her doing all this and i don't know why i can't let it go. because i'm crazy about her, you know? i look at this girl, i see the future. i see kids. i see grand- kids.
JAY: you're scaring me.
HOLDEN: i'm scaring myself. because i think so much of her, and then i can't get over like 'finger cuffs'. i don't know what i'm doing.
BOB: you're chasing amy.
HOLDEN: what..what did you say?
BOB: you're chasing amy.
JAY: what do you look so shocked for? he does this all the time. fat thinks just because he never says anything, that it'll have some huge impact when he does open his mouth.
BOB: why don't you shut up? always yap, yap, yapping all the time. give me a headache. i went through something like what you're going through. years ago. same kind of thing with a girl named amy.
JAY: when?
BOB: a couple of years ago.
JAY: what'd she 'live in canada' or something? why don't i remember this?
BOB: what you don't know about me i can just about squeeze into the grand canyon. did you know i always wanted to be a dancer in vegas?
BOB: hunhh? bet you didn't know that?
JAY: just cell your story so we can get out of here and smoke this.
BOB: so there's me an amy, and we're all inseparable, right? just big time in love. and then about four months in, i ask about the ex-boyfriend. move, i know, but you know how it is - you don't really want to know, but you just have to... stupid guy anyway she starts telling me all about him - how they dated for years, lived together, her mother likes me better, blah, blah, blah - and i'm okay. but then she tells me that a couple times, he brought other people to bed with them - menage a tois, i believe it's called. now this just blows my mind. i mean, i'm not used to that sort of thing, right? i was raised catholic.
JAY: saint shithead.
BOB: do something. so i get weirded out, and just start blasting her, right? this is the only way i can deal with it - by calling her a slut, and telling her that she was used - i mean, i'm out for blood i want to hurt her - because i don't know how to deal with what i'm feeling. and i'm like "what the is wrong with you?" and she's telling me that it was that time, in that place, and she didn't do anything wrong, so she's not gonna apologize. so i tell her it's over, and i walk.
JAY: a.
BOB: no, it was a mistake. i wasn't disgusted with her, i was afraid. at that moment, i felt small - like i'd lacked experience, like i'd never be on her level or never be enough for her or something. and what i didn't get was that she didn't care. she wasn't looking for that guy anymore. she was looking for me. but by the time i realized this, it was too late, you know. she'd moved on, and all i had to show for it was some foolish pride, which then gave way to regret. she was the girl, i know that now. but i pushed her away...
BOB: so i've spent every day since then chasing amy... so to speak.
JAY: enough of this melodrama. my advice - forget her, dude. there's one woman in the world. one woman, with many faces. get up, we gotta book. we're catching a bus to chi-town.
HOLDEN: what's there?
JAY: business, yo. how many more of those phat envelopes do we got coming to us?
HOLDEN: i don't know. i don't know if the book's going to be around much longer.
JAY: yeah? good. i'll be glad as when it's gone.
HOLDEN: are you kidding me? there's millions of people out there that'd love to see themselves in a comic book.
JAY: i know. i spend every waking hour with one of them. but it ain't like us at all - all slapsticky and - running around like dicks, saying... what's that you got me saying?
HOLDEN: snootchie-bootchies.
JAY: 'snootchie-bootchies'. who talks like that? that's baby-talk. it's a big world, g - but we're bound to run into you again. until then - keep your unit on you.
HOLDEN: i'll try.
BOB: do, or do not - there is no ay.
JAY: knock it off! get your fat moving - we got a bus to catch. jedi-bitch. exit jay and silent bob. holden remains in the booth, thinking.

HOLDEN: i know you're wondering why i asked you both here tonight, at the same time, knowing that we have to settle between us, separately. 
BANKY: i just figured you wanted to kill two birds with one stone by telling her to off with me here so you didn't have to go through the story again later on.
ALYSSA: you.
BANKY: not even if you let me videotape it.
HOLDEN: enough! i've been going through things, over and over. and i dissected it all, and looked at it a thousand different ways. banky - there's friction between us for the first time in our lives. you hate me dating alyssa and you want me to sign off on this m-tv thing.
BANKY: how perceptive.
HOLDEN: alyssa - you and i hit a wall, because i don't know how to deal with... your past, i guess.
BANKY: that's a nice way of putting it. i'd have said the whole double-stuff thing...
HOLDEN: i'm only going to say it once: shut up. now - i know i'm to blame one way or the other on both accounts. with you, alyssa - it's my fault because i feel inadequate. because you've had so much experience, had such a big life; and my life's been pretty small in comparison.
ALYSSA: that doesn't matter to me...
HOLDEN: please. i have to get through this. and with you banky - i know why you're having such a hard time with alyssa, and it's something that's been obvious forever, but i guess i just didn't acknowledge it. you're in love with me.
BANKY: what?
HOLDEN: you're attracted to me. just as, in a way, i'm attracted to you. i mean, it makes sense - we've been together so long, we have so much in common...
HOLDEN: it's something you're going to have to deal with. bank. you may very well be gay, which explains your homophobia and why you're so jealous of alyssa, and your sense of humor as well.
BANKY: just 'cause a guy's got a predilection coward jokes...
HOLDEN: bank. stop. deal with it. you'll feel much better.
HOLDEN: now - at this point, you may be asking yourself the question that i've been going over and over in my head for the last few days: what does one have to do with the other?
ALYSSA: don't.
HOLDEN: and when i did some serious soul- searching, it came at me from out of nowhere, and suddenly it all made sense - a calm came over me. i know what we have to do. and then you - bank, you alyssa, and i - all of us... can finally be... alright.
ALYSSA: please don't say it.
HOLDEN: we've all got to have together.
HOLDEN: don't you see? that would take care of everything. alyssa - i wouldn't feel inadequate or too conservative anymore. i'll have done something on par with all the experience you've had. and it'll be with you, which'll make it that much more powerful. and banky - you can cake that leap that everyone else but you sees that you should take. and it'll be okay, because it'll be with me - your best friend for years. we've been everything to each other but intimates. and now, we'll have been through that together too. and it won't have to be a total leap for you, because a woman will be involved. and when it's over, all that aggression you feel toward alyssa will be gone. because you'll have shared in something beautiful with the woman i love. it'll be cathartic. a true communion. we have to do this. for me, for both of you... for all of our sakes. this will keep us together. what do you say?
BANKY: sure.
HOLDEN: you know i need this. you know it'll help.
ALYSSA: no.
HOLDEN: no? i... i thought you'd be into this.
ALYSSA: you did? what does that say about me?
HOLDEN: but you've... you've done... stuff... like this. this should be no big deal for you.
ALYSSA: you don't want this. you really don't want this. trust me.
HOLDEN: i need this. this has to happen. why can't you see that? and how can you not? what does that say about me? you can take it from two guys whose names you can barely remember, but i ask you to share an experience like it - where it's about intimacy - and you say no?
ALYSSA: i can't.
HOLDEN: you can. i'll be there. and when it's over, we'll be the strongest we've ever been because we got through some nasty together. and we'll finally be on the same level together. and then there'll be nothing we can't accomplish.
ALYSSA: oh holden. that time is over for me. i've been there. i've done it. and i didn't find what i was looking for in any of it. i found that in you - in us. doing this won't help you forget about the things you're hung up on. it'll create more.
HOLDEN: no it won't. i thought about all of that.
ALYSSA: no, it will. maybe you'll see me differently from then on - maybe you'll despise me for going along with it, once you're in the moment. maybe i'll moan differently and then you'll resent banky, and become suspicious of us. or you'll alienate him because of it, and then grow to blame and hate me for the deterioration of your friendship. or what if- i sincerely doubt it, but what if - i saw something in banky that i never saw before, and fell in love with him and left you. i've been down roads like this before; many times. i know you feel doing this will broaden your horizons and give you experience. but i've had those experiences on my own. i can't accompany you on your's. i'm past that now. or maybe i just love you too much. and i feel hurt and let down that you'd want to share me with anyone. because i never wanted to share you regardless i can't be a part of this. or you. not anymore i love you. i always will. know that.
ALYSSA: but i'm not your whore.
ALYSSA: he's your's again.

FAN: do you know how much it's going for these days? one ten. you signing it will push that up even higher, 
BANKY: if you sell it, i want a kickback
FAN: i don't know if this is true, but i heard once that there was going to be an animated series.
BANKY: there was going to be
FAN: what happened!
BANKY: you're looking at it. no chronic - no cartoon
FAN: that man. that would've been awesome.
BANKY: tell me about it
FAN: is that what happened to you and holden mcneil? you got into a fight over the rights or something?
BANKY: it was a little more involved than that.
FAN: whatever happened to him?
BANKY: he quit the biz. i guess.
FAN: you guys don't talk anymore?
BANKY: no. not really.
OC FAN: probably shouldn't have killed off chronic.
BANKY: guess not. some doors just shouldn't be opened.
OC FAN: you don't need that guy, anyway. you do great stuff without him.
OC FAN: you were just carrying that guy, anyway.
BANKY: you're so right.
OC FAN: well, keep up the good work, man. love them jokes. love 'em. see ya.
BXVKY: yeah. bye. okay. who's next?
ALYSSA: thanks for reading it.
WOMAN: i'm going to get a soda. you want anything?
ALYSSA: i'm fine, thanks,
ALYSSA: okay, who's next!
ALYSSA: um... this isn't one of mine.
OC HOLDEN: it's mine. alyssa looks up sharply.
HOLDEN: i saved you one.
ALYSSA: hi.
HOLDEN: hi.
ALYSSA: how've you been?
HOLDEN: good. really good. yourself?
ALYSSA: good new issue's selling like crazy, for some reason.
HOLDEN: because it's so good. i really liked it.
ALYSSA: thank you. i haven't even seen this yet. did it just come out?
HOLDEN: a month ago. i did a really small run. self-financed. only about five hundred issues.
ALYSSA: will i enjoy it?
HOLDEN: you might. it's familiar subject matter.
ALYSSA: looks like a very personal story.
HOLDEN: i finally had something personal to say.
HOLDEN: i'm going to go. i don't want to hold up the line.
ALYSSA: yeah. i mean, it can get ugly. i just saw this nun in line call this small child a cunt-rag.
HOLDEN: read that, when you have a minute
ALYSSA: i will.
HOLDEN: i'd like to hear your thoughts about it. if you get a chance, give me a call.
ALYSSA: okay.
HOLDEN: nice seeing you again,
ALYSSA: really nice to see you too.
WOMAN: who was that?
ALYSSA: hmm! oh. just some guy i knew.
ALYSSA: next so what do you want to do tonight?

