OLD MATLIN: is he real? oh yeah -- absolutely. 
OLD MATLIN: i haven't talked about it for years, you know? everyone called me crazy...
OLD MATLIN: but i have the negative.
TECHNICIAN'S VOICE: get ready, 3-2-1... roll tape.
OLD MATLIN: it all started back in â´44. i was a corps photographer aboard an allied submarine...

OLD MATLIN'S VOICE: ...off the coast of scotland. classified mission. i was 21... 
OLD MATLIN'S VOICE: we had an english civilian on board. not much older than me but already an advisor to president roosevelt. "paranormal" advisor, i kid you not --

OLD MATLIN'S VOICE: his name was trevor. profesor trevor -- 
WHITMAN: -- broom! topside, now.
WHITMAN: the sooner we're done, the better.
BROOM: this is an important mission, sgt. whitman. i hope you realize that.
WHITMAN: oh -- you don't wanna know what i think. topside, now.

INT/EXT. SCOTLAND - TUNNEL - NIGHT: super: october 9, 1944, scotland. 
BROOM: sgt. whitman!! sgt. whitman!! may i have a word??
WHITMAN: what is it?
BROOM: in private, if you don't mind...

BROOM: your men -- they'll need these -- 
WHITMAN: you are a catholic??
BROOM: amongst other things, yes -- but that's hardly the point.
WHITMAN: here. you'll need one of these.
BROOM: i abhor violence. sergeant whitman, i hope you don't think me mad --
WHITMAN: three days too late for that one, "professor."

WHITMAN: you're wasting our time: there's nothing on this island but sheep and rocks. 
BROOM: ruins. not rocks. the remains of trondham abbey. built on an intersection of ley lines, the boundaries between our world and the other --
WHITMAN: what a load of crap. hell, a week ago i hadn't even heard the word parabnormal --
BROOM: "paranormal" but -- you read the transmission.
WHITMAN: half transmission. nonsense -- german ghost stories!
BROOM: i have seen ghosts, whitman.
WHITMAN: oh, i'll bet you have.
MATLIN: sweet
BROOM: they must be here for the sheep.

WHITMAN: the freak in the gas mask -- 
BROOM: karl ruprecht kroenen, one of the reich's top scientists. head of the thule occult society.

BROOM: if he's here, this is worse than i thought. 
WHITMAN: air and sea backup. what's closest?
RADIO MAN: londonderry, sir. forty minutes away.
BROOM: we don't have forty minutes.

GRIGORY: no matter what happens to me, you must carry on with the work. 
ILSA: i will not leave you.
GRIGORY: yes, you will... leave me. deny me.
ILSA: never --
GRIGORY: this will guide you back to me.
GRIGORY: i grant you everlasting life, youth and the power to serve me.
VON KRUPT: it's time.

VON KRUPT: five years of research and construction, grigory. five years!! 
VON KRUPT: the furhrer doesn't look kindly on failure.
GRIGORY: there will be no failure, general. i promised herr hitler a miracle. i'll deliver one.

GRIGORI: tonight, we will open a portal and awaken the ogdru jahad: the seven gods of chaos. our enemies will be destroyed. in an instant, all impurity in this world will be razed and from the ashes a new eden will arise. 
GRIGORY: ragnarok, anung ia anung.
ILSA: more power!! don't let the level drop!!

BROOM: fierce whisper, to 
WHITMAN): listen to me!!! the portal is open!!! we have to stop them!!!

MATLIN: it's almost over!! 
BROOM: no. it's not.
BROOM: cordon off the area. something came through.
WHITMAN: from where??!!

MATLIN: do you believe in hell? 
BROOM: there is a place -- a dark place where evil slumbers and awaits to return. from there it infects our dreams. our thoughts. grigory gave us a glance tonight --
MATLIN: grigory -- that's russian, right? thought they were on our side...
BROOM: grigory yefimovich rasputin --
MATLIN: c'mon -- rasputin??
BROOM: spiritual advisor to the romanovs. in 1916, at a dinner in his honor, he was poisoned, shot, stabbed, clubbed, drowned and castrated.
MATLIN: that makes him more than a hundred --
MATLIN: what the was that? an ape?
BROOM: no. it was red. bright red.
WHITMAN: what are you two talking about??
MATLIN: a red ape.
BROOM: it's-not-an-ape --
MATLIN: it's got a big stone -- in its hand --
BROOM: i think that is its hand.
BROOM: wait --
YOUNG SOLDIER: would'ya look at the size of that whammer!
BROOM: it's a boy. just a baby boy.

OLD MATLIN: and no one has ever seen it. they keep saying he's not real, but i want to set the record straight before i go. 
OLD MATLIN: here. the real picture, not the retouched one in life magazine. this is him. the very same night we found him. the night broom gave him that name. can i say it on tv? he called him --

HEAD OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS.: manning on a tv show a la regis philbin. 
TV HOST: as the head of your division, you -- you have seen dozens of pictures like this!!!
MANNING: exactly -- so, why is it that they're all out of focus? c'mon!! knows, people manage to get good pictures at a wedding!!
MANNING: that's the alleged best man -- ?

DOCTOR 2: malignant sarcoma. in the lungs... the spine, liver... 
BROOM: approximately... how long??
DOCTOR 2: maybe -- six weeks.
DOCTOR 2: i can arrange for hospitalization, pain management. make the time more bearable -- broom pensively shuffles his tarot cards.
BROOM: i'd rather... stay home, you know. i'll be making arrangements -- for my son.
DOCTOR 2: you can always get a second opinion.
BROOM: that won't be necessary.

BROOM: son... 
TV HOST: mister manning, what about the "bureau for paranormal research and defense?" the fbi has been known to conceal --
TOM MANNING: that word -- conceal --
TV HOST: from the american public --
TOM MANNING: phil -- phil -- hold your little green horses. let me tell you and the american public one thing -- this "bureau for -- what was it?
TV HOST: paranormal research and --
TOM MANNING: -- defense, right, well -- i'm here to clear up this once and for all. there-is-no-such-thing.

INTERCOM VOICE: yes? 
MYERS: john myers, f.b.i. transfer from quantico. a beat, then -- whirrr!!! an eyepiece and an lcd screen scanner pop out.
INTERCOM VOICE: look at the birdie, son.

MYERS: hello, i'm -- 
LOBBY GUARD: -- late. five minutes late.
MYERS: yes, i --
LOBBY GUARD: -- section fifty-one. step back.
MYERS: pardon?
LOBBY GUARD: two steps back, please.

VOICE: turn the pages, please. 
VOICE: over here... if you don't mind?
MYERS: christ!
MYERS: these -- ? you're reading these -- ?
BROOM: four books at once. every day -- as long as i'm here to turn the pages. my name's broom. professor trevor broom.
MYERS: sir, i'm --
ABE: agent john t. myers, kansas city, 76. "t" stands for thaddeus, mother's older brother. scar on your chin happened when you were ten, you still wonder if it's ever going to fade away.
MYERS: how did it --
BROOM: -- he. not "it."
BROOM: abraham sapien. discovered alive in a secret chamber at st. trinian's foundling hospital, washington.
BROOM: they took his name from this little inscription that was stuck on his tank.
MYERS: icthyo sapiens, april 14, 1865.
BROOM: the day abraham lincoln died. hence "abe" sapien.
BROOM: rotten eggs, a delicacy. abe loves them.
MYERS: how does he know so much about me?
BROOM: abe possesses a unique frontal lobe. "unique." that's a word you'll hear quite a bit around here.
MYERS: where am i -- exactly, sir?
BROOM: as you entered the lobby there was an inscription --
MYERS: on the desk, yes. in latin.
BROOM: impressive. do you remember what it said?
MYERS: "in absentia luci, tenebrae vinciunt..."
BROOM: "in the absence of light, darkness prevails." for there are things that go bump in the night, agent myers. we are the ones who bump back.

BROOM: 1937: hitler joins "the thule society" -- a group of german aristocrats obsessed with the occult. he points to an ancient, broken lance. 
BROOM: 1938: he acquires the spear of longinus, which pierced the body of christ. he who holds it becomes invincible.
BROOM: hitler's power increases tenfold.
BROOM: in 1943, president roosevelt decides to fight back. the bureau for paranormal research and defense is born.
BROOM: 1958, the occult war finally ends when adolf hitler dies.
MYERS: 1945, you mean. hitler died in '45.
BROOM: did he, now?
BROOM: agent myers, this is agent clay. follow his lead.
MYERS: you're not coming?
BROOM: i hand-picked you from a roster of over seventy academy graduates. make me proud.
CLAY: they're not speaking. professor broom had him grounded.
MYERS: grounded? who's grounded?
CLAY: okay. you saw the fish man, right?
CLAY: well, come on in and meet the rest of the family.

CLAY: he gets fed six times a day. he's got a thing for cats. you'll be his nanny, his keeper, his best friend. he never goes out unsupervised -- 
MYERS: who?!
MYERS: you're kidding --
HELLBOY: those comics -- they never got the eyes right.
MYERS: oh, jesus!! hellboy -- ?? is real --
HELLBOY: what's with the hair, clay?? finally got those implants??
CLAY: it'll fill in. where do you want your dinner, red? by the couch?
HELLBOY: who's the squirt?
CLAY: agent myers is your new liaison.
HELLBOY: got tired of me?
CLAY: nah. i'll be around, red, just back in the field.
HELLBOY: i don't want him.
CLAY: manning says i'm too soft on you -- the candy. give him the candy.
MYERS: oh. uh. hello. i -- i have these. for you.
HELLBOY: father's back? still angry?
CLAY: well, you did break out --
HELLBOY: i wanted to see her. it's nobody's business.
CLAY: it is. you got yourself on tv again.
HELLBOY: "myers", huh? you have a first name??
CLAY: try not to stare. he hates when people stare.
MYERS: uh-oh -- john. staring at what?
CLAY: his horns. he files 'em. to "fit in."
MYERS: his what??!!
HELLBOY: whatcha looking at, john??
MYERS: oh-n-no -- i --
HELLBOY: hey, hey, hey. they're playing our song.
CLAY: we're on the move.
HELLBOY: c'mon, champ! happy halloween!!! you're taking me for a walk!

HELLBOY: look at them ugly suckers, blue. one sheet of glass between them and us. 
ABE: story of my life.
HELLBOY: i break it, they see us, happy halloween. no more hiding. outside. i could be outside --
ABE: you mean, outside... with her.
HELLBOY: don't get psychic with me.
ABE: nothing psychic about it. you're easy.
HELLBOY: how am i ever gonna get a girl?? i drive around in a garbage truck
ABE: liz left us, red. take the hint.
HELLBOY: we don't take hints.

STONE: all areas secured. 
CLAY: seal the doors. red and blue are coming in.
CLAY: okay, boys, let's synch up our locators.

CLAY: at nineteen hundred hours an alarm tripped. bande. robbery. six guards dead -- 
HELLBOY: hold on -- hold on -- i thought we checked this place. fakes, and reproductions.
BROOM: apparently not everything was fake.
HELLBOY: father...?
BROOM: a 16th century statue was destroyed. saint dionysius the aeropagite.
HELLBOY: who wards off demons.
BROOM: smuggled into this country by an overzealous curator. the statue, however, was hollow --
HELLBOY: reliquary --
BROOM: a prison. the vatican deemed its contents dangerous enough to include it on the list of avignon. of which we hold a copy.
HELLBOY: would'ya look at this babies? made 'em myself. holy water, silver shavings, white oak: the works.
ABE: behind this door. a dark entity -- evil, ancient and hungry.
HELLBOY: oh, well. lemme go in and say "hi".

HELLBOY: hey. stinky. kitchen's closed. whatcha havin'? six library guards, raw? plus belts and boots? man, you're gonna need some heavy fiber to move that out -- 
ABE: red, i found something --

HELLBOY: that's all for you, sammy. 
HELLBOY: nah -- he's taken care of.

ABE'S VOICE: hound of resurrection -- 
HELLBOY: see? i don't like that --
ABE'S VOICE: -- hound of resurrection?
ABE'S VOICE: harbinger of pestilence, seed of destruction --
HELLBOY: skip to the end, willya? how do i kill it -- ?
ABE'S VOICE: it doesn't say --

GRIGORY'S VOICE: child... 
GRIGORY: all grown up, i see.
HELLBOY: that voice --
GRIGORY: i sang the first lullaby you ever heard, my child. i ushered you into this world. i alone know your true calling, your true name.
HELLBOY: don't tell me, it's zeppo.
GRIGORY: i can see that you're still young and don't know your place. teach him. before hellboy can reach the weapon --

HELLBOY: what do you think you're doing?? 
MYERS: helping you -- i just --
HELLBOY: no one ever helps me. it's my job.
HELLBOY: -- okay. here --
HELLBOY: -- then load this.
HELLBOY: it's a tracking bullet. crack the pin. load it.
MYERS: jeez... what the is that?
HELLBOY: lemme go ask --

WORKER 1: what the is that?? 
3 WORKERS: whoa-whoa-whoa-

HELLBOY: are you okay? 
HELLBOY: good. stay here.

HELLBOY: waiting for me, sammy? 
HELLBOY: uh-oh -- between a rock and a hard place -- but sammael sprints towards it!
HELLBOY: aw, --

HELLBOY: aw, i forgot -- 
HELLBOY: screw you.
HELLBOY: i'm fireproof. you weren't.

HELLBOY: myers??? how's your arm? 
MYERS: my arm is fine. where are you??
MYERS: where are you???

HELLBOY: no, no, no, it's fine: i do my job, i take a break. 
MYERS: no. stop. don't do this -- listen to me -- tell me where you are --
HELLBOY: myers?
MYERS: yes?
HELLBOY: goodbye.

GRIGORY: sammael has fulfilled his destiny... die in peace and be reborn again and again... 
ILSA: only seven more days to the eclipse, grishka...
GRIGORY: the child will be there. and so will we all -- won't we?

MANNING: every time the media get a look at him, they come to me. i'm running out of lies, trevor. 
BROOM: i thought you liked being on tv.
MANNING: i do. how many escapes? this year alone: five!
BROOM: tom -- he's our guest, not a prisoner.
MANNING: your "guest" happens to be six foot five, bright red, and is government funded.
BROOM: he's just going through a phase --
MANNING: a "phase"? what do you think this is, "the brady bunch?" these... freaks --
MANNING: these freaks, trevor, they give me the creeps. and i'm not the only one. you're up for review. you and your petting zoo.
BROOM: i know where to find him. i'll get him back.
MANNING: hey, fishstick -- don't touch anything -- abe silences him.
ABE: i need to touch it to "see"...
MANNING: see what??
ABE: the past, the future, whatever this object holds.
MANNING: is he serious??
ABE: don't worry about fingerprints. i never had any.
ABE: they were over here, professor.
MANNING: oooh!! who was here? nixon? houdini? you mind sharing your mystic insights?
BROOM: show me, abe... show me.

ILSA: move. 
GUARD 1: you! don't move! hands up!

GUARD 6: don't -- 
GRIGORY: ready the welcome, my love --
GRIGORY: salt. gathered from the tears of a thousand martyrs. restraining the essence of sammael, the hound, the seed of destruction.
GROWING, GROWING, INTO SAMMAEL.: it roars!!!

ABE: professor..? you -- are very sick -- 
BROOM: i don't want hellboy to know --
BROOM: sixty years ago abe, they tried to destroy the world. and they are back -- in my lifetime, they are back. to finish the job.

DOWN'S PATIENT: there's a big red guy down there! 
DOCTOR MARSH: that's fine, darling, santa's not here for another month.
DOWN'S PATIENT: not santa. big and red. with gold eyes. and he has beer!

LIZ: back so soon? 
HELLBOY: uh, i brought beer.
LIZ: to wash down my lithium pills? i may get a few perks, h.b. but i'm still a patient.
LIZ: you better have that looked at.
HELLBOY: just a scratch. i wanted to see you.
HELLBOY: we miss you at the bureau. abe's crazier every day. and father's still mad at me -- come back, liz. come back. i --
LIZ: no. not this time, h.b. it's been months since i've had an episode. and you know what? i'm learning to control it.
LIZ: i'm learning where it comes from. and for once in my life i'm not afraid. she clenches her fist and puts the flame out.
LIZ: looks like your ride is here.
HELLBOY: the nanny squad.

MYERS: sir, may i go first?? 
CLAY: not so fast. he barely knows him --
BROOM: then he should make it his business to change that.
ANGLE - THE BENCH - CONTINUOUS: liz stands up, puts her hand on his shoulder.
LIZ: listen, h.b. i've got a chance out here. if you truly care about me, don't come back anymore.
HELLBOY: goodnight, then.
LIZ: goodnight.
HELLBOY: yeah, i gotta go, too. lots to do --
HELLBOY: what took you so long?
MYERS: c'mon, time to go home. tape you up.
HELLBOY: what are you, a boy scout?
MYERS: no. i never was.
CLAY: c'mon, champ. you look a little woozy, there.
HELLBOY: this -- ? this is nothing. you know what'll kill me? her.

ABE: you were burned by some organic acid. 
HELLBOY: i'm lucky that way.

BROOM: son. about rasputin -- 
HELLBOY: don't worry. i'll get him soon enough --
BROOM: listen to me. this time is different. there's more at stake than ever before.
HELLBOY: how hard can it be? i punched the out of that thing that he sent -- ouch!!
BROOM: i worry about you.
HELLBOY: me?? c'mon --
BROOM: well, i won't be around forever, you know?
HELLBOY: oh, stop that -- be careful, there --
ABE: red. how long was it latched onto you?
HELLBOY: i dunno, maybe five seconds -- ow!
MYERS: you want me to hold him down?
HELLBOY: that's right, stud, hold me down.
ABE: professor...
BROOM: don't look! turn around.
HELLBOY: is it bad?
ABE: touched you five seconds. laid three eggs.
HELLBOY: didn't even buy me a drink.

ABE: the eggs are very sensitive to heat and light. they need a humid, dark environment to breed. 
MYERS: down there. did you ever loose track of him?
HELLBOY: well, let's see -- there was that moment, when i had a train on top of my head -- broom frowns, worried.
BROOM: we can't risk it: you'll go back to the tracks tomorrow with a group of agents, search the area, top to bottom. myers observes, repelled, as inside the egg a small foetal thing wiggles.

MYERS: i'm in way over my head, i know that much. 
BROOM: you're doing fine.
MYERS: no, i'm not. he respects clay. not me. i don't know why you chose me, sir. but i'm not qualified.
BROOM: i'm dying agent myers.
BROOM: and as a father, i worry about him. in medieval stories, agent myers, there's often a young knight, inexperienced but pure of heart...
MYERS: oh, please. i'm not "pure of heart."
ABE: yes, you are.
BROOM: what i ask from you is -- have the courage to stand by his side after i'm gone. help him find himself. who he must be. he was born a demon... you will help him become a man.

GRIGORY: the master is calling your name now, my girl. we are all part of his plan. you must return to the child... so, once again... 
GRIGORY: ...dream of fire.

BLONDE KID: freak! 
BLONDE KID: see? she knows her name.
BLONDE KID: go home, you freak. we don't want you here.
LIZ: not again, please, not again...

LIZ: mommy! mommy! 
LIZ: mommy! help me! i'm burning!
LIZ: help meee!!!

HELLBOY: how many buildings does she have to burn? she belongs here! 
BROOM: that's not how she feels. she may never feel it.
BROOM: it's her choice -- she's human --
HELLBOY: oh, as opposed to -- ? broom grows silent.
HELLBOY: mmmh -- "pamcakes." we're going out --
MYERS: professor, that girl you were talking about --
HELLBOY: hey. you: think twice --
MYERS: i think i can help -- talk to her -- i can bring her back.
HELLBOY: what landed you this job, pushing "pamcakes"? punctuality? what was your area of expertise?
HELLBOY: what was that??
MYERS: hostage negotiations.

MYERS: miss sherman? i'm agent myers, fbi. 
MYERS: miss sherman? i'm agent myers, fbi. the hospital called us. they don't feel they're capable of caring for you any longer, and -- silence.
MYERS: liz -- can i call you liz? it's a beautiful name --

MYERS: it's still impressive by my standards: my name's john. 
MYERS: dr. broom asked me to invite you back to the bureau. no special precautions, no security escorts. you and me in a taxi. like regular folks.
LIZ: doesn't sounds like him.
MYERS: miss sherman, he's asking you back, but it's entirely your choice.
LIZ: choice, huh? that's cute. i've quit the bureau thirteen times. i always go back. where else would i go?

QUARRY: we're in the cellar of the benjamin institute. turn-of-the-century orphanage. closed since they moved the sewers in '51. abe removes his gloves, hyperextends his palm and senses the air. then the surface of the water. 
ABE: there's a pulse. and it's coming from --
ABE: there -- they point their flashlights at a bulkhead.
ABE: cistern on the other side. most of the eggs are there --
AGENT QUARRY: no way in.
CLAY: we should go back and request permission to --

HELLBOY: are you coming or not? 
CLAY: you two, check this dump, then join us --

HELLBOY: there you go, doctor. this should cover your tailfin -- on loan from the vatican, a bone from saint dionysius. ugh. looks like a pinky. 
ABE: remind me why i keep doing this.
HELLBOY: rotten eggs and the safety of mankind.
ABE: oh, right --

CLAY: see? it's thicker. isn't it? it's not that doll-hair thing -- 
HELLBOY: son of a -- !
CLAY: red, wait!
CLAY: red's on the move!! i'll cover him!!

HELLBOY: hey, chunk-face! 
HELLBOY: you can do better than that. big monster like you.
HELLBOY: see? it hurts! you shouldn't hit people!
YOUND GIRL: my kittens!! my kittens!!!
HELLBOY: aw, crap.
HELLBOY: second date. no tongue!!

HELLBOY: i hope that hurt. 
YOUNG GIRL: thank you --
HELLBOY: my job.

MOSS: -- their locators light up. 
QUARRY: abe --
QUARRY: moss, what the was that?
QUARRY: whatever it was --

HELLBOY'S VOICE: who's there? clay? come in, someone. 
CLAY: clay, code 30, this is clay, over...

LIZ: it feels good to be outside!! it's been so long... 
MYERS: hey!! the music!! turn down the music!!
DRIVER: yeah, yeah, music!!
MYERS: that's not -- that's not safe, miss sherman -- miss sherman?
MYERS: nice view --
MYERS: a smile, huh? that's good.
LIZ: don't get used to it.

MANNING'S VOICE: he'll make it -- hellboy turns, manning is there: 
MANNING: but not everyone was so lucky. two agents died today. clay probably won't survive the night. you're reckless.
HELLBOY: i knew those men better than you did --
MANNING: ah, i see. that makes it all alright then.
HELLBOY: no, it doesn't make it right, but i stopped that creature, didn't i?
MANNING: that's what you do. that's why we need you. you have an insight. you know monsters.
HELLBOY: what are you trying to say?
MANNING: in the end, after you've killed and captured every freak out there -- there's still one left: you.

BROOM: welcome back. 
LIZ: it's only for the weekend, professor broom. then i'll be on my way --
BROOM: come and go as you please. find your way back. we've made quite a few changes --
MANNING: i want that thing locked up, starting now -- now!!! you hear me??!!
HELLBOY: liz? liz!!
HELLBOY: you!!! you did it, buddy --
HELLBOY: woo hoo!!

LIZ: a little something i learned in therapy. i'm depressed -- one rubber band. i'm impatient: two rubber bands... 
MYERS: i'll get you a fresh pack.

MYERS: where do you -- 
HELLBOY: shh! just a second.
HELLBOY: myers, you're a talker. what's a good word -- a solid word for "need" --
MYERS: "need" is a good, solid word.
HELLBOY: nah, sounds too "needy."
MYERS: start in, you got nachos coming.
LIZ: oh, my look at them all! who had babies? c'mere, tiger...!
HELLBOY: um... liz -- i -- there's something i'd like you to -- something i need you to hear.
LIZ: well. is it long?? i'm going out, but --
HELLBOY: out? out out?
LIZ: for a cup of coffee, but go ahead, read.
HELLBOY: you're going alone?
LIZ: no. myers is taking me.
HELLBOY: him!! why him? why not me? myers walks back in pushing a tray of nachos.
MYERS: hey, your chili's getting cold --
HELLBOY: not hungry.
LIZ: what did you want me to hear -- ?
HELLBOY: it's nothing. just a list -- it's not finished --
LIZ: oh, okay then. maybe later then.
MYERS: anything else you --
HELLBOY: not from you.
MYERS: well good n-
HELLBOY: good night.

BROOM: the subject: karl ruprecht kroenen -- 
BROOM: suffered a masochistic compulsion known as surgical addiction.
BROOM: both eyelids were surgically removed along with his upper and lower lips, making speech impossible. the blood in his veins dried up decades ago. only dust remains. four pulverized vertebrae. a steel rod inserted into his pelvis held him up. what horrible will power could keep a thing like this alive?

MYERS: i admire him. he's a force of nature. 
LIZ: he's just pushy.
MYERS: no... he's determined. unstoppable --
LIZ: cocky.
MYERS: strong.
LIZ: a brute.
MYERS: my uncle used to say... we like people for their qualities but love them for their defects.
MYERS: he -- loves you.
LIZ: i know.
MYERS: what about you?
LIZ: don't know. really. i grew up with him. i've missed him too, but now, every time i see him, i get confused. hardly a day goes by he's not in my mind. even now, i feel he's here --

HELLBOY: no cream and sugar, moron. she takes it black. 
HELLBOY: toldya.

MYERS: it's freezing, isn't it? 
LIZ: coffee's warming me up.
MYERS: what do we do now? newark, new jersey, entertainment capital of the world. she cleans off a wet, dirty bench, sits down.
LIZ: you offered me a cup of coffee. i've got one, so just sit down.

HELLBOY: hi... 
KID: you're hellboy.
HELLBOY: shh. i'm... on a mission. he watches as liz and myers sit on the bench.
HELLBOY: don't tell anyone, huh?

LIME: should we send out some scouts? 
BROOM: no. enough. he will never change -- always a child. always.

KID: my mom baked 'em. 
HELLBOY: that's it: she's laughing. i'm done.
KID: they don't look like spies.
HELLBOY: come on! look at him, those shifty eyes, that -- phony grin...!! you gonna eat that?
HELLBOY: oh, the yawning trick. that's so 1950's! watch his arm -- he looks around, picks up a pebble, hefts it.

MYERS: we all have a side that we try to hide... 
MYERS: hey! what the hell?

BROOM: it's rasputin's mausoleum. 
BROOM: i see the puppet. but -- where is... the puppet master?
GRIGORY: very good, professor broom.
BROOM: it was you: the scraps of paper, liz's sudden relapse and return...
GRIGORI: bread crumbs on the trail. like in a fable. they both distract him and guide him exactly where i need him.
BROOM: moscow.
GRIGORY: his destiny.
GRIGORY: you raised the child. nurtured him. so, in return... would you permit me? a brief, brief glimpse? of the future --

GRIGORY: if only you had him destroyed sixty years ago, none of this would come to pass. but, then, how could you have known? 
GRIGORY: your chooses to remain silent. mine lives within me.
GRIGORY: in the frozen waters of the malaya nevka, in the darkness of the void: every time i died and crossed over, a little more of the master came back with me. he disclosed to me the child's true name... would you like to know it??
BROOM: i know what to call him. nothing you can say or do will change that. i call him son.
BROOM: i am ready.
GRIGORY: good. now, i'll add two crumbs more: grief and revenge...

KID: just go down there and tell her how you feel! my mom says -- 
HELLBOY: it's not that easy, okay? plus, you're nine. you're not old enough to give me advice.
KID: who are those guys?? hellboy turns and sees --
HELLBOY: something's wrong --

HELLBOY: father -- i'm back. i'm back. i'm back. 
HELLBOY: i wasn't here. you died alone --

LIZ: i've never seen him like this. never. should i stay? with him, i mean? 
ABE: listen -- i'm not much of a problem solver... three decades and i've only gotten two sides. but i know this much: if there's trouble -- all we have is each other. and i'm stuck here. so -- take care of the big monkey for me, will you?

MANNING: we've collected and destroyed thousands of eggs. no trace of this "sammael" or this "rasputin" character. but we have this address -- 
MANNING: sebastian plackba 16. volokolamsk fields, fifty miles from moscow. we leave as soon as we get clearance and equipment --
MANNING: hellboy's coming -- but i'll be in charge this time. either we wrap this up or i'm closing this freak show for good.

LIZ: hi -- 
HELLBOY: hi.
LIZ: i've changed my mind. i'll come to moscow. if you -- are still going -- hellboy nods, then clears his throat.
HELLBOY: i am. but -- i have something to say, too. i never had the guts before - he looks her in the eye.
HELLBOY: but i understand what you don't like about me. i do. what i am makes you feel out of place -- out there --
LIZ: red, i --
HELLBOY: listen. i'm not like myers. he makes you feel like you belong. and -- that's good. it really is. i -- wish i could do something about this -- but i can't. i can promise you only two things... one: i'll always look this good. two: i won't give up on you. ever.
LIZ: i like that...
HELLBOY: good.

GENERAL LAPIKOV: i have accumulated many objects of great interest. preserving our heritage. 
GENERAL LAPIKOV: many -- like me -- believe mother russia to be very close to a historic rebirth.
GRIGORY: rebirth? i like that.
LAPIKOV: twenty tons of stone. this thing fell from the sky into tungaska forest.
GRIGORY: june 30th, 1908. it burned hundreds of square miles of forest. the romanovs took possession of it immediately. the czar guarded it jealously -- i have wanted it for ages.
GRIGORY: now, finally, it's mine.
GENERAL LAPIKOV: you are aware, of course, there's no way you'll get it out of russian territory.
ILSA: he is aware.
GENERAL LAPIKOV: it's a pleasure doing business with you. perhaps you have other interests.
GRIGORY: enjoy the bright metal you've earned. there will be no further transactions. only closure.

HELLBOY: "one falls, two shall arise." so: you pop one, two come out. you kill two, you get four. you kill four, you're in trouble. we have to nail 'em all at once. and the eggs. 
MANNING: when we do: no mumbo-jumbo. double- core vulcan-65 grenades.
MANNING: we've installed a very handy timer. set it, walk away. cable pulls the safety pins, k-boom! easy to clean, easy to use...
HELLBOY: those things never work. never.
MANNING: each of us gets a belt.
HELLBOY: i won't take 'em. they never work.
MYERS: i'll carry his -- hellboy wraps broom's rosary on his wrist.
HELLBOY: boy scout.

HELLBOY'S VOICE: sparky?? who came up with that? myers? 
MYERS: we're almost there.
HELLBOY: this better be the place or i'll puke.
LIZ: come out and see.

MANNING: forget it. this is practically a city. and it stinks, and it's muddy. we'll go back, check into a hotel, regroup after breakfast. we'll have to make a grid, go by quadrants. maybe satellite photography. 
HELLBOY: let me ask for directions.

HELLBOY: sixty feet further, comrades, and three rows in... 
HELLBOY: this here is ivan klimentovich: say "hi" ivan.

HELLBOY: okay, someone's expecting us. turn on your locators -- anyone sees anything... 
LIZ: marco...
HELLBOY: ...polo.
MYERS: are you sure about this?
HELLBOY: on a scale of one to ten: two. but -- -- she'll take care of you, myers. she's a tough one.

MANNING: what's that -- 
SOMETHING BIG": they stare into the darkness.
MANNING: we should go back -- you -- you could tear that door apart --
HELLBOY: don't move. we --
MANNING: -- should go back. now!
HELLBOY: no. don't --
MANNING: i'm in charge. we go back!
HELLBOY: son of a --

HELLBOY: screw that. 
HELLBOY: you killed my father -- bammm!!!! another hit.
HELLBOY: give your soul to your is mine.

HELLBOY: are you okay? 
HELLBOY: you'd better stay here. i'll find a way out. we'll come back for you.
MANNING: you call that thing a cigar??
HELLBOY: yup.
MANNING: you never, ever light a cigar that way.

MANNING: use a wooden match. it preserves the flavor. 
MANNING: thank you.
HELLBOY: my job.

MYERS: so, he thinks that you and i... that's why he's mad at me -- 
MYERS: but it's not true, is it?
LIZ: what -- ?
MYERS: that you feel that way about me.
LIZ: you want to know -- now -- ? here? red, white, whatever -- guys are all the same.

MYERS: watch out. it's slippery... 
LIZ: oh, my

HELLBOY: sorry. just couldn't leave you two alone. 
LIZ: hit me.
MYERS: what?
LIZ: hit me -- all of my life i've run away from it... now i want it to happen! do it. hellboy screams. water explodes under the fighting bodies. two of the sammaels turn their attention to liz and myers.
MYERS: i can't, i -- liz slaps him.
LIZ: i know now: i love him. i've always loved him.
LIZ: go now.
HELLBOY: liz...

GRIGORY: "and i looked and beheld an angel, and in his hand the key to the bottomless pit..." 
GRIGORY: these were the words i heard as a peasant boy in tobolsk. and now, the door -- sent by the ogdruh jahad so that they might at long last enter our world.
ILSA: you are the key! the right hand of doom!
MYERS: don't do it!! don't do it!!
ILSA: silence!!
ILSA: imagine it: an eden for you and her --
HELLBOY: no.
GRIGORY: no? in exchange for her life then, open the door.
GRIGORY: as you wish.
GRIGORY: she's dead.
HELLBOY: noooo! noooo!!!
GRIGORY: her soul awaits on the other side. if you want her back... open the door and claim her.
HELLBOY: for her.
GRIGORY: names hold the power and nature of things. mine for example. rasputin: "the crossroads." and crossroads i have become. your true name: anung-un-rama. repeat it. become the key.
HELLBOY: anung-un-rama...

GRIGORY: the final seal. open it! 
GRIGORY: you will never fulfill your destiny. you will never understand the power inside you.
HELLBOY: i can live with that.

GRIGORY: child... hellboy turns. grigory, on his knees, smiles. 
GRIGORY: look what you've done --
GRIGORY: you've killed me -- an insignificant man... but you have brought forth a
GRIGORY: behold, my master, behemoth. guardian of thresholds, destroyer of worlds.
ILSA: will hold no surprises for us.

HELLBOY: keep her safe. no matter what. i'll deal with whatever's back there. 
MYERS: alone?
HELLBOY: how big can it be?
HELLBOY: they never work -- he wraps them around his stone arm.
HELLBOY: ugh -- now, this is gonna hurt --

LIZ: in the dark -- i heard your voice -- what -- did you say -- ? he looks at her, lovingly caressing her hair. 
HELLBOY: "you, on the other side: let her go. because for her, for her -- i'll die. i'll cross over." "and you'll be sorry i did."

